
The troubles continue 
Drive for life 
Wednesday
Hundreds ofChechen rebels showing fierce 
1\/D sophomore and leukemia patient Conor Murphy 
resistance continue their attacks on Russian 
pleads for high attendance at today's bone marrow 
troops after six months offighting. 
drive from 9 a.m. -3 p.m. at laFortune. 
MARCH 29, 
WorldNation . page 5 
Viewpoint . page 15 
2000 
THE 


VOL XXXlll NO. 111 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Former first lady supports Logan Center 
"There should be no shame
. Carter uses her . A Saint Mary's
and no embarrassment in
influence and own being mentally ill or having a junior and her 
experiences to aid family member who is mentally 'best buddy'
ill," Carter said, explaining thatfundraiser the public's generally negative accept honor from perception of mental illness 

Carter 

By MICHELLE KRUPA arises because medical profes­
Senior SuffWrirer sionals' understanding of men­
By MICHELLE KRUPA 

tal diseases as biologically­
Senior Staff Writer 

based is not widely known. 
\Vlwn Father Ted IIesburgh 
"\Ve must try to overcome
decidt>d in thl' 1'arlv l 970s to Saint \-fary's junior
the stigma. myths and miscon­
he Ip I m i11 io n Ca·111 bod ian s 
Courtenay Verret attended

ceptions." she said.
fleeing Pol Pot's \'iolent regime. Tuesday's Logan Ce-nter
Carter. who became an advo­
he got $60 million from fundraiser to support her
cate for

President 
friend Rhea Warner. a 61­
mental

Jimmy Carter. year-old mentally disabled
"There should be no shame health as
And he got member of the Logan com­
active hon­

Carter's wifP, and no embarassment in munity, who said a prayer
orary chair

Hosalynn, to 11y 
being mentally ill ... ., at the luncheon.
or the

to tlw Little did Verret know,
PresidentCambodia­

sh e and \Varner w o u Id be

Rosalynn Carter Carter's
Thailand bor­honored by the center's
Commission

der wlwn-! she former first lady Board of Trustees and guest
on Mental

deliven'd aid to speaker Rosalynn Carter for
Health. dis­

ailing rnfugees. the'ir exemplary relation­
cussed the need to support
"Hosalynn Cartr,r isn't just a ship, forged through the
those who care for mentally ill
lady who'll say she'll be on Best Buddies program.
patients.
your team," llesburgh said "I love her spunk," said
"I knew how hard caregiving
Tuesday. "Sim didn't just talk Verret of Warner, who she 
vvas for my family," said
about !aiding Cambodians), she 
met last fall when she

Carter, whose widowed motherwPnt tht>re... · 
joined Best Buddies. which

cared for four children and her
A human rights advocate, the randomly pairs volunteers 
own aging father. "People whoformer First Lady is known for 
with mentally disabled 

am lonely foci unappreciated.
rolling up her sleeves to aid the 
adults. The women meet

We must search for those in
sick. TuPsday, she visited the once twice to
or monthly

our communities who care for
Joyce CenlPr to lwlp South chat, attend concerts or get
mentally ill people. We must
Bend's Logan Center raise 
Dairy Queen.

give caregivers in our commu­money !'or mentally ill patients 
"I like that she's so nice,"

nity a new appreciation."
and their caregivers. Carter 
Warner said of Verret. "I

Citing her book, "Helping
addressed more than 600 local 
had two other buddies who

Yourself Help Others: A Book
business people, volunteers 
weren't worth it. They

For Caregivers," Carter recom­and community members who 
would just come over and 

attended the Great Logan Nose-On Luncheon. see CARTER/page 4 
I see VERRET/page 4 
l 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Groups emphasize importance of environment, diversity 
tainers. The policy hopes to initi­ronmental ombudsman to over­for the tutoring and mentoring softball dugouts, which were By SARAH RYKOWSKI ate student activities that will see the implementation of the pol­program. Teamwork For painted blue by volunteers before Sainr Mary's News Editor educate people on environmental icy, and to voice concerns about Tomorrow is targeted toward the this week's games. 
concepl'i and environmental South Bend community's 8 -12 "[Painting the dugouts] was big 
Saint Mary's Board of issues. issues on the year olds. The program, founded for school spirit and involved the Governance approved a Student As Saint "We don ·t have any campus. by students two years ago, pairs a student body," said Johna Environmental Policy Statement Mary's Akmaral college student with a child to lndriolo, who presented the idea at their meeting on Tuesday. begins to formal commitment to Omarova, cur­work on reading, athletics, and to BOG. Allison Trdan, a senior anthropol­implement the environment right rent diversity healthy living. Student body vice president ogy major and environmental its five-year commissioner The program is looking for two Michelle Nagle expressed her
now. In the next five 
studies minor, submitted the poli­Campus and founder and reading coordinators, who must appreciation for the painters. cy on behalf of the Environmental Master Plan years we will have a lot first president of be senior elementary education "I think you're a great example Coalition. Trdan pledged her per­for construc­ofchange on campus ... " the Diversity majors. The current coordinators of Saint Mary's pride," Nagle said. sonal and group's support of the tion and ren­Board, voiced are Katie Kennedy and Erin Long. policy, which she said would last ovation of her support of both students at Saint Mary's. 
In other BOG news:

Allison Trdan
after her graduation in the the college. Trdan's policy, Students who are interested in . RHA's national communica­
spring. the written Saint Mary's senior and pledged that volunteering should contact Molly 
tion coordinator position is still 

"\Ve don't have any formal policy will the Diversity O'Rourke, the current director. 
open for applicants. 

commitment to the environment examine Board would "Ifyou like kids. go. because it's right now," Trdan said. "ln the cosl'i for each of the projects and help oversee its tenets until a so much fun," Erin Hall said. HalJ, .Groundbreaking ceremony for next five years we will have a lot assess the short and long-term position on the Board becomes a current BOG alumnae commis­
the new Dalloway's and the Saint of change on campus... [This poli­cosl'i to the environment. reality. sioner, participated in the pro­
Mary's College Welcome Center cy] will make sure it's a good Trdan next plans to take the ..Someone in the Diversity gram her sophomore year. 

at 1:30 p.m. on March 30. 

change." policy to faculty and staff,_ and Board will work on it next year," BOG also approved two co­Trdan's policy. endorsed by then to the administration for Omarova said. sponsorships. one for RHA's con­
.A Health Fair in honor of BOG, advocates reducing, reusing approval. Ed Foy, a junior at Notre Dame ference at the University of 
Nurses Week will be held from 3 ­

and recycling all waste materials BOG also discussed a part of and next year's director of Boulder from May 25 -28, and 7 p.m. in Reignbeaux Lounge. Le 
on campus and making sure that the policy that would create a Teamwork For Tomorrow. asked the second for partial reimburse­
Mans Hall on March 30. 

aJI waste is dPposit,1d in the con-position on the Board for an cnvi-for BOG's support and volunteers ment for the paint used on the 

Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Sharing my sister's identity 
"Yes, she looks like me. NO-she is not my twin-she is my YOUNGER sister," I have to constantly tell people when Sarah and I are together. 
I was blessed, (only now that I am not living in the house any longer do I think of it that way), with Nellie Williams three younger sisters and one brother. Sarah is the closest to me in age. Saint Mary's 
This past weekend was Photo Editor the first time she has been able to come to campus to visit me. After seventeen years of sharing a room with her, secrets every night with her, a year of sharing a car with her, and millions of minutes spent fighting with her, I actually miss her at college (or maybe it's just her clothes). Either way, I was excited for her to visit me and to be able to share my life here with her (not to mention, take her to some parties). 
My mom called the night my sister arrived with some last minute advice, worried to think of what two of her daughters could do together. 
"Remember, the money I sent with Sarah is not to buy beer," my mom said as I rolled my eyes at my grinning sister. We had a whole weekend ahead of us. 
But by Friday night, my nerves were already worn with my sister. She had come ready to shop. We had spent the whole day at the mall, she had already called her boyfriend twice, and it was getting harder to convince her to let me borrow her clothes. After shopping all day again on Saturday in Chicago, (we had to find the perfect prom dress for Sarah). I was exhausted. Especially at the thought of all my studying and home­work I still had to get done. 
It's stressful bringing someone from "out­side" of campus into your life on campus. College life is already so incredibly busy and you just want that other person to fit perfect­ly into your daily routine of classes and friendships and to love your college as much as you do. Although l don't exactly know how I would feel if Sarah came to college here, I at least wanted her to want to come here. I wanted her to think I was a "cool" big sister and wish to be like me. 
During one of our "arguments," (you couldn't expect us to go a whole weekend without one, could you?) I discovered how much Sarah hates being compared to me. I never thought it was such a big deal until she mentioned it this weekend. She complained of how she always felt she was being measured up to me. It's funny because we're not even alike. That's one of the reasons I like her, because she's not like me. Do you remember when you were younger how you always had to say to other kids. "Stop copying me?" We didn't want anyone else to steal our ideas then. Those ideas helped mold us into the young adults we are today. We don't want to lose our identity. 
As we grow older (and more tolerant of each other) my respect for my little sister grows. She is not only my sister. but also my confidant, and always has a new wardrobe for me to wear. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Maureen Smithe Amanda Greco Helena Rayam 
Graphics 
Kiflin Turner 

Jose Cuellar 
Sports 

Production 
Tim Casey 

Rachel Protz.man 

Viewpoint 

Lab Tech 
Dustin Ferrell 

Shannon Bennett 
The ()b:,crvcr (USPS 599 2-40~0) is published Mondar through Friday except during cx.1111 and vacation period,. The ( )h,crv'"r i, a member of rbe As,ociated Pres,. All reproduction nglu, are re,ervcd. 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 
Mich. St. preparation prevents riot 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

More than 600 people filled the streets near Cedar Village Apartments Saturday night, celebrating Michigan State University's win over Iowa State in the NCAA Basketball Tournament. But the scene of chant­ing partiers was very different from a year ago, when nearly 10,000 people stormed East Lansing's streets on March 27 and 28. "Both the university and the city made a real conscious effort to educate the community that type of behavior is scary," East Lansing Mayor Pro Tern Beth Schwarze said. "With the winds [Saturday). Cedar Village could have burned down." The March 27-28, 1999, riot resulted in 132 arrests, including 71 of MSU students. That massive enforce­ment -mixed with university and community efforts -may have played a large role in deterring people from rioting Saturday. Prosecutors sported a remark­able 86 percent conviction rate, sentencing 113 people for 55 felonies and 58 misdemeanors. "I think all of those things have provided a wake-up call," MSU spokesman Terry Denbow said. "We owe a lot of cred­it to our students and credit to our university commu-
Wednesday 
. Art: "A Lifo in Art," works by Margaret Iannelli; noon-5 p.m.; New Moon Gallery, Benton Harbor;_ (616) 926-9391. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Thursday 
. 
Music: Borders: Don Conoscenti in concert; The Carvers; 8 p.m.; Mishawaka. 

. 
Music: Student recitals; 


7:30 p.m; Everest-Rohrer Fine Arts Center Audito­rium, Bethel College. 
Saturday 
. Theater: Pump Boys and Dinettes: By Troupe America; 8 p.m.; Mendel Center Mainstage, Lake Michigan College, Benton Harbor. 


Yale orders Versity.com to pull notes from Web 
PRINCETON, N.J. 

A recent controversy at Yale University has brought Versity.com, an Internet company that provides lecture notes for courses at about 150 colleges and universities nation­wide, to the forefront of a continuing debate over professors' intellectual property rights. 
Versity.com pays students for their lecture notes and then makes the notes available online. At most schools, however, the company docs not seek the permission of profes­sors from whose courses material is posted. 
Versity.com pulled all notes from c9urses at Yale last month, several days after the university demanded that it do so. 
"Yale sent Versity.com a cease and desist order objecting to what they were doing," according to a state-
Friday 
. 
Comedy: Jamie Foxx; 8 p.m.; Star Plaza Theatre, Merrillville; (219) 769­6600. 

. 
Music: Jazz Combo Concert; 7 p.m.; Umble Center, Goshen College; (219) 535-7572. 


"Yale sent Versity. com a cease and desist order objecting to what they were doing.,, 
Thomas Violante 
assistant director for 

institutional issues 
ment by Yale assistant director for institutional issues Thomas Violante. "They complied and took down the Yale notes. We said we will meet with them at a later date." 
Versity.com manager of campus relations Jennifer Keesler explained the company's reason for pulling the material from the site. "We removed the notes because we respect the students, faculty and administration 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
at Yale," she said. "Beyond that, we hope this leads to us learning more about their needs." 
Though the Website allows users to get notes for about 7,000 classes, it does not offer notes from any Princeton courses. 
According to Keesler, the company does not play a role on the Princeton campus because of a lack of student interest. Versity.com did not receive the "overwhelming student demand for notes" from Princeton under­graduates that it had from students at other schools, she said. 
Dean of unde·rgraduate students Kathleen Deignan said she believes this lack of demand is the result of specific university regulations that preclude the sale of lecture notes. "The university has a policy that long predated Versity.com," she said. 
Ohio court defends college records 
COLUMBUS. Ohio 
A recent federal court decision added another twist to the manner in which Ohio State and Miami (Ohio) Universities must handle students' disciplinary records. The federal district court ruled that the records arc protected from public release under the Family Educational Hights and Privacy Act (FERPA) or the Buckley Amendment. According to the decision, OSU and Miami University have been violating FERPA by releasing student disciplinary records, along with per­sonally identifiable information to a national newspa­per, The Chronicle of Higher Education. The act defines education records arc defined as follows: "Those records, files, and documents and other materials that contain information directly related to a student; and are maintained by an educational agency or by a per­son acting for such an agency." Despite what is said in FERPA, opponents believe it is in the best interest of the public to have access to this information. According to 
S. Daniel Carter, vice president of Security on Campus, lnc.. "The Department of Education is just stopping the schools from doing something they didn't want to do." 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather«> forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 29. 
t~~. ,......."";.i' 

H l'\? 

Wednesday ~ 48 31 Thursday ~ 52 35 Friday ~ 55 38 Saturday ~.. 59 43 
0 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. CO!.D WARM STATIONARY
'' " ... ,,· 
....... "' ~ 
Prncure: 

®©..D. utQ <:} w~~ ~ 
High Low Showers Rain T~atorma Flurries Snow tee Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy

Sun~ay ~ 65 49 
Vra Associ.1ted Ptess 
'•"•.,·

5.. )·, \; 
Atlanta 68 50 Las Vegas 74 50 Portland 56 40 Baltimore 54 36 Memphis 62 46 Sacramento 72 44 Boston 52 Milwaukee 34 St. Louis 42

4,~,~AQQ(! ~ ~ 38 48 56 
Showers T-storms Ram Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 52 34 New Yori< 52 40 Tampa 80 63 Via Assoc,aled Press GrapllicsNel Houston 82 60 Philadelphia 52 38 Wash DC 56 40 


Wednesday, .March 29, 2UUU The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Lecturers: Debt relief is crucial for third-world nations 
Debt repayments take money alleviate that situation." 
By KRISTEN ALLEN away l'rom health earn and Hutebemberwa said that 
News Writer education. The problem builds people from his country were 
as funding for these payments not afraid of first-world 
Advocating the Catholic often comes in the form of aid nations because of their responsibility to Debt lhdief in from other countries, he said. money, but rather because of the Jubilee Year was the focus "If you get a loan, you must th,~ir power. of a presentation gi•n~n by pay it back," Hutebemberwa "\Ve don't blame rich coun­
Fatlwr Tom McDermott and said. "So why then do we have tries because they are rich," 
I: Ii z e us Hu t e be m be r \\I a this debt relier?" he said, when asked how the Tuesday. For third-world countries people of Uganda feel about 
There is a crippling l'inancial like Uganda, the reality is that the disparity of wealth. "What burden that is t h e i r we want is that we [do] not bt' a r in g o n t hn debt will become slaves." poorest countries "J;Ve don't blame rich probably McDermott, who has spent of tlH• world, countries because they never be many years in Uganda, is according to p aid . reminded of how much wealth 
are rich. What we want
\kDermott. Instead there is in the American cul­"It's sad to is that we Ido] not of pay­ture, of how much Americans think that people ing back live as influential people, and
become slaves." 
are forced into a t h e of how much education is situation where C O U n -power to us. 
Elizeus Rutebemberwa
tlrnv must choose t r i e s "\Ve live in such a culture betwe1~n putting lecturer t h e y that makes us people who are money aside for owe, the used to choice, who are used basic health carP money to power, who arc used to and Pducation should wealth -we expect that life and repaying tlwir debts," he go to the poor for education can and will improve," he said. and health, llutebemberwa said. "We live in a life of 
Wlrnn a country borrows said. hope." money. the citizens are not "It's important for us to "Calling Students to Jubilee alwavs awarP and even when raise our conscious to the Debt Helief at Notre Dame" 
they ·kno-w about the loans that reality of the debt in the third­was sponsored by the Notre their country has taken, they world countries," said theolo­Dame Center for Social do not ,tlways know what the gy professor Father Bob Concerns and Campus monpy is used for. explained Pelton after Tuesday's lecture. Ministry, Saint Mary's College Hutebember\\·a, a Ugandan. "We must bring pressure to and Holy Cross College. 

SMC students learn what employers, grad schools seek 
"Get involved," Wilkeson said. schools and the type of creden-they look at other issues," she haps graduate school may not By NICOLE HADDAD 
'Tm a strong belhwcr that edu-tials they seek. said. be the best step immediately Nt·ws Wrircr 
cation is more than what goes "There are some schools that She discussed how to go about after undergraduate work is 
on in the classroom." look purely at numbers -the writing the personal statement completed. 
The Saint Mary's College The top four characteristics GPA and LSAT," said Vance, that the admissions process "Get experience by going to Leadership DevPlopment on a resume, he said, are acad-"Particularly requires. work or the Peace Corps," she Committe<' and Center for emic major, internship experi-large schools Vance said said, "And then apply when you Academic Innovation sponsored ence, leadership experience and and state "Get involved. I'm a this state-have more to show for your-a lecture that gavn students Lim GPA. It is important to gain schools. strong believer that ment gives self." opportunity to learn what activities and nxperience skills, "However, education is more than the appli-"Make 'you' into a different gradc~s mean to graduate as well as maintain a GPA, he there are oth-cant an person and bring perspective schools as well as employers. said. e rs who will what goes on in the opportunity into the class," Vance told the 
Facultv and administrators "The most important activities look at the classroom." to address audience. "This will enhance nducate·d students on what from an mnploycr's perspective application. the issues the graduate experience and graduate schools want from are career development, intern-These schools related to the experience of other stu­applicants. They look at how ships, leadership and organiza-look at the David Wilkeson the grade. dents." Parning a 4.0 compares to tional involvement and commu-application and assistantdirectorfor "Don't Biology professor Nancy involvmcnt in dubs and various nity service and student organi-place them into Career Development make excus-Nekvasil discussed the admis­organizations. zation membership," Wilkeson three different es but sions process in medical, dental, 
David \tVilkeson, assistant said, noting that such experi-categories: rather look and other health schools. She dirnctor for Career ence helps students learn to those with at your agreed with Vance in saying Development, focused on what speak and articulate. strong numbers, those with low grades in context," Vance said. that graduate schools are look­flmployers seek, as well as Susan Vance, l'rom the numbers, and those that are in "Did you play sports or were ing for applicants with life expe­advising studr>nts on how to bal­department of Business and the middle. The borderline you involved in leadership? Did rience. ance grades with leadership Administration and Economics, cases may not be exactly what you have a job?" Senior merit scholar Candice and activities. focused on admission to law the school is looking for but Vance also discussed that per-Janiczek advised students to 
----------=----------------=--~take their lives step by step, 
well-tuned, but it still seems out of 
SPEC~ key? The Copy Shop in the Lafortune  
High Volume Copying . .  .  .  t  ff; r;{t ti G ,.ny Q · ,l()(t,.  Student Center can help you orchestrate your docu1nents without a sour note to be  
C~lor_ Copying,_ Sc~nning, & Pnn~ing  heard. Multi-page documents, postcards, binding  
81nd1ng / Lam1nat1ng / Fax Service  services, color copies and more, all at your disposal  
Newsletters / Reports/ Manuals  with a wave of a baton. Stop on in and see how we  
Complete Desktop Publishing Service  can get you singing!  

FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY!_ Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm• Sunday: Noon to Midnight
Quality Copies, Quickly!™ 
Copyrighl 2000 • All Righ1s Reserved • OJ/00 

semester by semester. 
"From my experience, grades are the only things that count for scholarship," Janiczek said. "The way I got involved was by taking baby steps beginning freshman year and increasing what I was doing." 
Sophomore Katie O'Connell spoke from the perspective of a student involved in activities. 
"From the first day of school, I decided to get involved and my grades came as they came," she said. 
O'Connell stressed the impor­tance of experiences as well. 
i "Experiences enhance life. You need to think about what you want to be when you leave Saint Mary's, a magic num­ber?" O'Connell said. "There's a lot more out there and it's not ahvays that number. You need to learn about yourself.•· 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
Carter 
continued from page 1 
mended implementing pro­grams like those in place in Plains. Ga., her hometown. There. church leaders join public health professionals, community college professors and the local library board members to educate citizens about mental health. 

Resource "/nsurance coverage for on par with material is mental illnesses is not on insurance 
readily avail­coverage for
par with insurance 
able as well. physical ill­
Carter rec­coverage for physical nesses," she 
ommended illnesses. We need said. "We that those need legisla­
legislation on the national 
who volun­tion on the 
teer to help level to right national mentally ill this inequality. " level to right 
patienti be this inequal­mindful of ity... 
Rosalynn Carter
their care­Finally. givers. fonner first lady Carter con­
your community what these people are really like." 
Carter urged attendees to contact national politicians about leveling inequities between physical and mental health insurance, a topic tack­led annually by leaders of mental health organizations who participated in the Rosalynn Carter Symposium on Mental Health Policy. 
"Insurance coverage for 
mental ill­
nesses is not 
Friends should ask how caregivers feel and should actively volunteer to help with household tasks rather than waiting for caregivers to request help. 
Carter also suggested com­munity residents contact newspaper editors to request fair coverage of local mental health-related issues to increase awareness. She noted that the Atlanta-based Carter Center annually awards $10.000 in fellowship to jour­nalists who report on mental health issues. 
"Get [editors] to cover suc­cess stories -mentally ill peo­ple who have been successfully treated," Carter said. "Show 

gratulated 
area resi­dents who donate money and services to mentally ill com­munity members. She encour­aged attendees to continue their dedication to Logan Center and to increasing the public's understanding of mental illness in South Bend. 
"Remember what we are working for: individual human dignity," Carter said. "You people at Logan are working to humanize our culture by your effort to help people in your community." 
Carter's speech, ''Ability in Action," and the luncheon were part of several events to celebrate the 50th anniversary of Logan Center. 
Verret 
continued from page I 
want to talk. [Courtenay] 
takes  me  places.  I  care  
about her."  
Verret,  a  French  and  

communications major and member of the Notre Dame Marching Band, began vol­u n tec ring at Logan last fall. Initially. she was unsure of her ability to help center clients. 
"When I went out after the first time I visited [Logan Center} and got the tour. I want to run out and cry in my car," Verret said. "I didn't know if I'd be able to handle it. It's kind of a shock, and humbling, so many people in one place who have a disability." 
In addition to Best Buddies, Verret volunteers weekly in an adult rehabil­itation program, helping to feed and entertain adults, many of who are restricted to wheelchairs and cannot speak. She plans to contin­ue service work and might partici pate after grad ua­t ion in the L'arche pro­gram, in which volunteers live in community with mentally disabled adults. 
Verret and Warner were among five pairs of friends were honored for their dedication to building rela­tionships between commu­nity volunteers and mental­ly disabled citizens. Honorees received engraved picture frames and were photographed with Carter. 

ND faculty welcome new fitness facility 
mind coming to at all." 

By STACEY KAPLAN 
According to Gasperntti, the 
News Writer 
only negative effect of the facil­
ity was the necessity of closing 
University faculty and it down for renovations. administrators am toning "That was the negative muscles in a new facility. The thing. I really depended on thjs Raymond and Winifred place for workouts," he said. 
Rinehart Faculty Exercise The room also includes a Facility, located in the Joyce new entertainment system. Center, opened its doors in "There is a vast dilTerence mid-January. Since then it has from the old room. WhBrc they received used to have an influx just one TV of new "They have windows now they have visitors. three moni­
to look out so you can see
"People tors now. 
h a e the stadium. The old room 
v People can b e e n didn't have any windows.,. even bring telling their own me that headphones
Kevin Hirl

they see to hear per­
of issuing clerk
a lot sonally," he 
n e w faces. I tell them, 'Yeah, you're right."' said Kevin Hirl. issuing clerk. 
The improvement was nec­essary due to renovations of the men's and women's varsity basketball locker rooms. 
"They just wanted to update the basketball locker areas," said llirl. 
Both the faculty locker rooms and the exercise facility itself were expanded and improved. Ac;sociate profossor David Gasperetti said, "There is more room and better equipment. It's lighter and brighter, and the locker room is a nice upgrade. This is cer­tainly a place that you don't said. 
Structural improvements to the building have also been popular. 
"They have windows now to look out so you can see the sta­dium. The old room didn't have any windows at all, so it's really nice," said Hirl. Saunas were added to both locker rooms. 
The facility is a gift of Haymond Rinehart. He served as chairman and CEO of Clow Corporation until 1980. He is currently chairman and CEO of RGR Enterprises, and has served on the College of Business Advisory Council for almost 30 years. The facility will be dedicated on May 8. 
ATTENTION STUDENTS OF COLLEGE, OF ENGINEERING 
Please join your faculty at a Faculty-Student Luncheon to be held, Thursday, March 30 
South Dining Hall Hospitality Room 12-1 :30 p.m. 
GIFT RAFFLE WILL BE HELD 
Sponsored by Student Governmc;nt 

Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Meningitis strikes Niger, kills 123 people 
NIAMEY. Niger 
A nwningitis outbreak in tlw West African country of :\JigPr has claimPd 132 lives. the gov­t•rnmPnt said TuPsday. Close to 1,200 cases havP bPPn reportf'd sincP early January and tlw disPasP is spreading. !lealth Minister Assournanc Adamou said in an appnal for international assistance broadcast on national radio. Ile said tlw deaths are concentrated in thre(' eastern regions. including the capital. Niamev. "The situation can be controlled if we haw• enough funds," Adamou said. lie said 5 million dosPs of meningitis vaccine an~ nm~dPd. but lw did not spPcify how much money thP countrv nePds. Mt>ningitis. an infection of' the nwmb1:aiws surrounding thn brain and spin~tl cord. l'an br raus1~d by a virus or ba.ctPria. \\'ith trnatnrnnt. only 1 percent of' inf'cctrd Pf'O· pl() dif'. Outbreaks an' common in Niger. onP of tlw world's poorest countries, which straddles Llw southPrn tip of th<' Sahara desert. 
Sweden investigates forced sterilization scandal 
STOCKI !OLM, Sweden 
lnv(•stigators looking into Sweden's strril­ization scandal said Tuesdav that about half of' th P (>3, 000 proccd ures ·P<' rformed f'ro m 
19:15 to l 975 \\'('rt' voluntary -but that politicians stood by !'or four d<1cadcs as other victims were sterilized against their will. The operations \vrre largely forced on poor people and those with mental problems in the l 940s, but tlrn rn \Vas Ii tt le cviden cc that ethnic groups \\'Pr<' targeted. according to the report, drawn uµ by a special government rommission and forwarded to the Justice Ministry for revit'\\'. Thi' roport did not accuse individuals. but said that passivity and silence of' politicians and loose intcrprf'tation of stcr:.. ilization laws bv nrndical authorities enabled thP operations 'to be f'orcPd on people until tlwy wPn' abolislwd in 1976. 
Former militant arrested for shooting two police officers 
ATIANTA 
Jamil Abdullah Al-Amin. the 1960s black mili­tant orn•p known as rI. Hap Brown. was indicted on murd,~r and aggravated assault charges TlH~sday in the March 16 shootings of two sher­ifl's deputies who wen~ trying to arrest him. A Fulton County grand jury indicted Al-Amin on 13 counts. said district attorncv Paul Itoward. I le said hP hopes ·the indictme~t vdll dear the wav for ,.'\I-Amin. who was arrested last wc<'k in /\1.;bama, to bP rntunwd to Georgia in two to four \\'!~eks. Al-Amin. 56. is accused of' killing dPputy Hirky Kinrlwn and w~1unding deputy Aldranon English as tlwy s11rved him with an arrest warrant at his Atlanta grocery store aftPr lw failed to appPar in court on charges of rPceiving stolen property. impersonating an olll­cPr and having no proof of insurance. 
S&P 500: Composite \'olume:
1507.73

10936.11 954.242.6:?4
-16.13 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CONPA!!I TICKER •, CHANOS: ! C~il PRICE 

CISCO SYSTEMS  CllCO  -2.73  -2.1825  77.88  
MICROSOFT  CORP  MSFT  •0.H  •0.2'75  104. H  
MC I WOR LOCOM IN BANK ONE CORP  WCOM ONE  -1.H ..,.a,  •0.7500 +2.1900  (2.25 H.25  
DE LL  COMPUTER  DELL  • 3. 45  ·1.9950  55.88  
INTEi,  CORP  lNTC  -4.90  -6.9975  1)5. 69  
QUA:..COMM  INC  QCOM  +3.94  •5. 8725  154.81  
GLOBAL  CROSSINO  GBLX  -B.43  . l. 9915  43.H  
NASDAQ  100 SHAR  QQQ  -2.60  -3,0600  llJ,12  
AMGEN  INC  AMGN  ., . 03  +2,4350  62.81  

COMPILED FHOM TIIE 0BSEHVEH WIHE SERVICES page 5 
RUSSIA 


were believed to be whe re it is di ffi cuIt for southern mountains. The
Associated Press 

regrouping for new Russia to move its heavy federal command said 
AHGUN 
attacks, The clashes and guns and vehicles. about 1,500 rebels were 
Continuing to resist 
Baranov's statement Meanwhile. rebels filter­based in the area. includ­
despite six months of bat­
reflected the rebels' deter­ing back into the flatlands ing hundreds in the village
tering from superior 
mination to keep fighting have launched sporadic itself. The military has 
Hussian forces. hundreds 
despite being outgunned. attacks. One Russian sol­said around 3,000 rebels 
of' rebels battled_ Hussian 
Hussian ground troops dier died in rebel shelling are still fighting around 
troops Tuesday in a. vil­
steadily pushed rebels out of a checkpoint in Grozny the republic.
lage deep in Chechnya's 
of the breakaway repub­overnight and rebels also The federal command 
mountains. 

lic's northern flatlands shelled a military building said more troops and 
Hussia also fought rebels 
and into the mountains in Gudermes, Chechnya's equipment were moving to 
in Argun, just ea.st of the 
last fall. Since early second-largest city, the area around 
capital. Grozny. Light­
February, when the rebels Baranov said. Tsentoroi, about 35 miles 
arms fire rattled and heli­
fled Grozny, fighting has "We have a feeling that southeast of Grozny.
copter gunships could be 
centered on the mountain­it's the calm before the Because of Tsentoroi's 
seen firing rockets into a 
ous southern third of storm," he said. "They are remoteness, the military
forest where rebels were 
Chechnya. dispersed. They have relied mainlv (Jn air raids. 
hiding. 

The rebels have shown taken a respite to get Russian je.ts and heli­
A top Hussian comman­
fierce resistance in the ready for new attacks." copters flew 120 sorties 
drr. Col. Gen. Alexander 
rugged terrain, where There were fflw details Monday, far more than 
Baranov. said other fight­
they can capitalize on about the fighting in the usual. the military head­
ers have dispersed and 
their guerrilla skills and village of Tsentoroi in the quarters said Tuesday. 
Lott tries to curb Columbia, Kosovo funds 
begins Oct. 1. has no specific figure in mind.
Associated Press 

Congress \.Viii probably work on Lott has said before that he oppos­
\VASIIINGTON 
those bills into the fall. But Lott said es the bill not only because of its
Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott 
he hopes money for Kosovo and expense but also that it would slow
promised Tuesday to try to block a 
Colombia can be provided in one of the Senate's work on other issues.
$9 billion bill that includes monev for 
them and approved within the next His remarks Tuesday were the first
U.S a.ctivi ties in Colombia ·and 
two months. in which he has threatened to try
Kosovo. dampen­


"It is too costly," said Lott, "and I and block it.
ing prospects that 

will do what I can to block it." The The majority leader sets the
Congress will pro­

$9 billion measun1 is an enlarged Senate's schedule. Even so, he can
vide the money 

version of a $5.2 billion bill that be subject to political pressures, and
quickly. 

Clinton requested on an emergency manv members of the Senate
Instead. he said 

basis. Appropriations Committee as well as
he wants to take 

Lott spoke after meeting with con­Democrats and the Clinton adminis­
President Clinton's 

servative Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas. tration continue to favor action on
full rPquests for 

who has demandrd spending the bill.
Colombia and Lott 
rt•straints as the Sertatc brgins its SenatP Appropriations Committee
Kosovo. shrink the 

budgN work !'or the year. Gramm Chairman Ted Strvens. said he 
rest ol' tlw !Pgislation and inl'lud<' 
said lw agrned with Lott that only would try pushing his version of the
what is IPl't in regular spPnding bills 
about $5 billion of the $9 billion will $9 billion bill through his panel nc~xt
rO I' th(' 2() 0 1 fj s Ca I yt' a r' w hi l' h 
be provided. although Lott said he Tuesday, despite Lott's renrnrks. 
~---·--------------------------------------...­
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
Reno defends her actions during Waco confrontation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Attorney General Janet Reno testified Tuesday that she never gave approvaJ for tanks to demolish the Branch Davidians' compound near \Vaco, Texas and does not believe the FBI intentional­ly did so ­say lawyers for the sect w h o deposed her for their wrongful-death la,vsuit against the government. 
But tlrn Davidians' lead coun­sel. emerging from the rare deposition of an attorney gener­al, said Reno was less than forthcoming in discussing whether the FBI intended to dis­mantle the complex during its 
tear-gassing operation  - an  
interpretation  rejected  by  
Beno's aides.  

"The only issue where we felt that she was less than candid was on the demolition," Houston lawyer Michael Caddell said out­side the Justice Department. "The problem that she's got is she testified to Congress 


in 1995 that "She was forthcoming Mount Carmel the damage and candid and should one done to the develop," he
answered all the 
building was said. 
the result of questions. Her testimony The plain­
tear-gas will speak for itself, but tiffs, whose insertion. suit against
it was consistent
And I think the govern­
it's very diffi­throughout the deposition ment heads to 
cult for her with her past testimony." trial in mid­to back off of May, contend that testimo­the FBl's on­
Michael Bradford 
ny." scene com­u s U.S. Attorney m anders 
siege, led by the FBI. that ended 
in a fiery inferno on April 19, 
1993. Koresh and about 80 fol­
lowers died, some from the fire, 
others from gunshot wounds. 
The governn:ient insists they 
died by their own hand. 
A day later, Reno went on 

television to accept responsibili­
ty -an act that earned her 
widespread acdaim. 
Although congressional hear­ings that year on Waco were ovenvhelmingly supportive of' Heno, her decision to use tear gas was sharply questioned dur­ing hearings in 1995, th11 first year the Republicans controlled Congress. 
And then the issuP faded -largely from view until last August, ·when the government was forced to acknowledge that the FBI had used potentially incendiary tear gas canisters despite Heno's orders to the con­trary. 
Reno acknowledged Tuesday that the operations plan she approved did not authorize the use of pyrotechnic tear gas, flash-bang devices inside the Davidians' Mount Carmel retreat, or building demolition, Cadden said. 
"She also testified she was 

never told ... that there would be 
no plan to 
fight a fire at 

Attorney Michael 
Bradford of Texas, one of five Justice lawyers who flanked Reno at the two-hour deposi­tion, disputed Caddell's claim. "We would strongly disagree with his interpretation," he said. 
"She was forthcoming and candid and answered all the questions. lier testimony will speak for itself, but it was con­sistent throughout the deposi­tion with her past testimony," said Bradford, who is one of the government's chief defenders in thn Davidian litigation. 
For Heno, Waco has bem1 a rrnver-cnding crisis. 
The deadly standoff betwem1 tlrn Branch Davidians and foder­al law (Jnf'orcement bc~gan in February 1993 -just W(JC ks before Hcno took ol'licc -,-vith a shootout as Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms agents tried to serve weapons warrants on Davidian leader David Koresh. Four agents and six Davidians diPCI. 
That was followed by a 51-day 
ordered the 

dismantling of' the Davidians' complex several hours into the operation -in defiance of the Heno-approved p Ian that permitted such destruction only after 48 hours if the tear-gassing proved unsuccessful. 
While Reno refused to acknowledge deliberate demoli­tion occurred, Caddell said she did concede that the on-scene commanders would have been required to consult with FBI leadership in Washington before speeding up the plan -which didn't occur. 
Bradford declined to discuss Heno's testimony, saying the foderal district judge presiding over the case ordered deposi­tions scaled for 30 days. 
"The judge has expressed a fairly strong preference that we not get inlo a public debate over depositions, so I do not want to go point-by-point through the deposition," he said. 
Caddell said he will rnhiasP both lfono's deposition and a videotape of the proceeding in 30 days. 
The attorney said he does not hold Reno responsible for any negligence at Waco. 
But he is using his depositions with Reno and other high-rank­ing FBI officials to buttress his contention that the FBl's on­scene commanders -special agent in charge Jeffrey Jamar and Hostage Rescue Team leader Richard Hogers -deviat­ed from the approved operations plan by escalating the tear-gas insertion and destroying the building. 
He also faults Jamar's decision to hold back fire trucks at a checkpoint while the building was consumed by flames. 
Jamar told Congress in 1995 
that he kept the fire trucks at bay for fear firefighters might be shot. The government contends any actions Jamar or Rogers took that day fell within their discretionary authority. 
Also Tuesday, a federal judge in Waco granted a plaintiffs' request to dismiss their part of a case against an FBI sharpshoot­er. 

Dj DAN 
Another late Night 

VARIOUS ARTISTS 
Machine 5011/: An Odyssey Into Electronic Dane• Music 
., 
Visit our Jam Central department. 

MEDID7PLAYe
Guitars, amps, 
drumsets, sheet music \.. and more. 

Your Entertainment Superstore 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
Cassettes available 

MediaPlay.comsM 
on select title,. Sole ends April 8, 2000. Produd seledion and pricing may vary online. 807430 2416 
• 


Wedesday, March 29, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Ex-wife murders farmer FBI agent 
Associated Press 
PENSACOLA, Fla. 

In the middle of a gunbattle with d1iputies trying to arrest them, an ex-stripper killed her former husband, a onetime~ FBI agent. with a shot to the head. She then killed herself. 
"No one had any idea they were going to turn into Bonnie and Clyde on us." said Carlos Baixauli, an agent of the federal Bureau of Alcohol. Tobacco and Fin•arms. 
Forml\r agent Justin Ilaberski, 
40. who had become a lawyer and part ownN of a strip club, and ex-wife Jpnnifcr Bradberry Ilaberski. 29, were shot to death Friday as they ran from their car during the shootout with Escambia County deputies. · 
UC research ship sinks, killing four 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 

A boat carrying 10 students and othors on a university rnsearch trip sank off the coast 
oI' Baja Ca Ii for n i a. k i I I in g at least !'our peoplP. · 
Three people swam to safety on a rn)arby island and were rescued early Tuesday, said Lisa Lapin, a spokeswoman for the University of California, Davis. A snarch was on for the otlrnrs. 
Lapin said survivors at the scenP reported the recovery of four bodins, including a male graduate studm1t and a visiting Japanes1i scholar. Tlw U.S. Embassy in Mexico City also confirmed four dead, including 
Holy Cross College is a small, close-knit, two-year 
HOLY 
liberal arts college where you'll get the personal attention you need for success. We'll challenge you, CROSS too ... with an expanded curriculum that includes a new Associate ofArts in Business Administration 
COLLEGE 
degree. And wait till you discover our campus life. 
Notre Dame, Indiana
We've spruced up the landscaping, added new sports and recreation facilities and created more on-campus P.O. Box 308 housing. Just recently, we broke ground on a new Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 student apartment complex. Looking for the path to 219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 a brighter future? It starts right here at Holy Cross. www.hcc-nd.edu 
C2000 HCC 


at least one U.S. citizen. 
Among the missing was Gary Polis, the expedition's leader and chairman of the school's Department of Environmental Science and Policy, Lapin said. 
The boat was one of two, 22­foot inflatable crafts carrying a total of about 20 people on the trip Monday to research spi­ders and scorpions on an island near Bahia de Los Angeles, a remote bay 250 milPs south of the U.S.-Mexico border. 
The two boats became sepa­rated on their return when strong winds whipped up 4 to 6-foot waves, UC Davis said in a statement. 
It was not clear who else was on board the boat that sank. 
On Monday, medical examiner ri~staurant to their motel. Gary Cumberland said autopsies Pensacola fire marshal Bob Lane showf'd that Ms. Haberski shot said the suspects also were her husband in the forehead, wanted for questioning in a fire 
then shot hcr­sclf. She was 
also  shot  
twice  in  the  
chest  by  

deputies, Cumberland said. Those wounds would have eventu­ally killed her if she had not shot herself' in the head first, he said. 
Deputies had started pursuing tlrn couple Friday after a report that they had robbed three men and a woman walking from a 
"No one had any idea they were going to turn into Bonnie and Clyde on us. " 
Carlos Baixauli agent, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms 
and fired at officers with a 9 mm semiautomatic pistol. One officer fired back, Sheriff's Sgt. Eddie Barnard said. 
"From what we understand, there was a mix of students, faculty and visitors from Japan," said Pat Bailey, anoth­er spokeswoman for the school, just east of Sacramento. 
The boat that made it report­ed the other craft missing late Monday, prompting a search by 
the  Coast  Guard  and  the  
Mexican navy.  
Mexican  naval ships  and  

Ml~xican and Coast Guard air­craft were searching the area Tuesday under clear skies. 
Located in a rugged, desert landscape, Bahia de Los Angeles is a tiny collection of hotels and tourist camp­grounds that is a popular desti­nation for fishermen, kayakers and wildlife biologists. 
that caused an estimated $200,000 damage Wednesday to the Club Mardi Gras, partly owned by Ilaberski. 
During a car chase, Ms. llaberski stood in the sunroof of their Jaguar 

President enters Southern flag debate 
Associated Press. 

WASHINGTON 
With a visit to a historically black South Carolina college, President Clinton is wading into the debate over display of t h e 
Confed­erate flag, w h i C h C O U l d become an issue in Nov~ ember's election. 


Clinton
T h e symbol­ism will be potent and the political undertones strong Wednesday as Clinton appears at a $500-per-person fund-raiser honoring Rep. Jim Clyburn, D-S.C., chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus. 
Along with many other blacks in South Carolina, Clyburn wants the flag removed from atop the South Carolina Statehouse. 
Clyburn said he wanted Wednesday's event held at Allen University to make a statement, ev•m though 
"As long as the waving ing symbol
m o r e m o n e v symbol ofone American ·s of one 
American'scould have 

pride is the shameful 
pride is thebeen raised 

at a larger, symbol ofanother shameful more lavish American's pain, we have symbol of 
another
location. 

another bridge to cross. " 
American's

There will pain, we
be seating for about Bill Clinton h a v e 1,000 peo­U.S. president another 
ple. 

"I want to make a statement about that flag every chance I ·get," Clyburn said recently. 
By his presencn at the school, founded in 1870 by the African Methodist Eph;copal Church, Clinton will ally himself with the move­ment to remove the flag as a symbol of racism. said Bruce Ransom, a political science professor at South Carolina's Clemson University. 
"You've got the president in South Carolina, he's at a pre­dominantly black college, 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air f_o ce ROTC Cadets 
/ College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 
Cadet Gamache 

Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC 
revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities. 
Whether you're about to start college or have already 
begun, it's time to make your decision, now. 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck -631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
talking about the flag. and he's there with Clyburn," Ransom said. "As far as sym­bolism, there's a bundle all together there." 
Supporters say the flag, which has flown atop the Statehouse since 1962, hon­ors those who died in the Civil War. 
The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People is leading a tourism boycott of South 
Carolina until  the  flag  is  
removed.  
This  week,  the  NAACP  

offered some support for a compromise proposed by state legislators on both sides of the flag issue. The plan would remove the flag from the Statehouse dome but erect other Civil War-era flags on the Capitol grounds. 
"The president will talk about the flag and he will talk more broadly about toler­ance," White House spokesman Jake Siewert said Tuesday. 
Clinton will likely expand on rhetoric he used this month at a commemoration of the civil rights march in Selma, Ala. 
"As long as the wav­
bridge to 
.. 

cross, Clinton said at Selma. 
And in a state likely to vote Hepublican in the fall, Clinton will point to the political con­troversy over the flag in this year's pivotal South Carolina GOP primary. 
Presumptive Republican presidential nominee George Bush demurred on the ques­tion of whether the flag belongs at the Statehouse, calling it a local issue. 
Bush's former GOP chal­lenger. John McCain, also refused to take a position. 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
Bush reaches out to McCain, adjusts education agenda 
i 
senator and then called Bush. backing could bring Bush cation agenda was "subordi­abasic level in 1998.
Associated Press 
i 
The Texas governor is hop­more conservative support nate to his risky tax scheme, Bush calls for spending $5 ing for an endorsement fi_:om even as he targets women and which would actually slash million annually to diagnose
HESTON, Va. 
his former foe, but McCain other traditional Democratic money for education." reading problems with kinder­
i George W. Bush reached out
l aides said it is too soon to talk constituencies with his read­In an interview with The garten and first-grade stu­
to vanquished presidential
l about that. ing initiative. Associated Press, the Vice dents.
rival John McCain Tuesday, 
Still, McCain adviser John Hecent polls give both Bush President said Bush could not An additional $90 million
declaring "the past is the 
Weaver said, "The ice has and his Democratic rival, Vice pay for his education propos­per year would be used to
past" and 

been bro­
President Al Gore, roughly als if he also cut taxes as pro­train teachers to make theit's time 
ken." equal marks on who would do posed, by about $1 trillion diagnosis. The biggest chunkfor them to 
B u s h the bf~st job of improving edu­over 10 of money ­
m e e t . 

said, "I cation. years. $900 million
Another 

think John Bush's education proposal Bush's "/ think John and I both annually -is
former 

and I both would provide reading tax-cut pegged for lit-
rival, Steve 
understand that the past
under­instruction for about 900,000 plan "puts eracy pro-
Forbes, 

is the past and its time
stand that kindergarten and first-grade a huge grams that
w a s 

the past is studcrnts. Over time. aides cloud over to move forward... would be ·
endorsing 

Bush as Bush the past McCain said. he envisions adding a everything designed and and it's lesser amount of monev to that he implemented
t h e 

George W. Bush
time to diagnose and remedy linger­says about locally.
Republicans moved toward 
move forward." ing problems with second educa­Republican presidential States would
reconciliation after a bruising 
McCain suspended his cam­graders. tion," Gore candidate have to applyprimary s,~ason. 
paign March 9 after Bush won Casting himself as a new told the for the money,
Bush telephoned McCain 
a string of primaries two days Republican, Bush even cited AP. "You and it would be
from his car in Virginia, 
eadier on Super Tuesday. The the late Albert Shanker, for­can't propose an economic awarded only if they proposedwhere hP laid out a $5 billion Arizona senator won seven mer head of the American plan that results in devastat­programs that met "rcsflarch­
plan to address illiteracy 
GOP primaries. including the Federation of Teachers, a ing, slashing cuts to education bascd" standards.
among young school students, 
leadoff contest in New union traditionally aligned and pretend that you're not By contrast, Gore has pro­declaring the problem a 
Hampshire. with Democratic causes. doing so.'' posed spending $115 billion"national emergency." 
Bush annoyed the McCain "This plan is different. It's The governor's new pro­over 10 years to continue"Too many of our children camp by saying that McCain different from my opponent. gram, "Reading First," is President Clinton's programcan't read," Bush told a group 
"didn't change my views on It's different from the admin­modeled after a program aimed at reducing class sizes
of Asian-American business 
reform." But the Texan quick­istration. And it's different begun this year in Texas. It by providing more money to
people in suburban 
ly tried to soften the blow and from those who would say would set the goal of teaching hire teachers. So far, about
Washington. "Our economy is 
has spoken more glowingly of there is no federal role for every American child to read 30,000 have been hired, withthe envy of the world; unfor­his former rival since. education, different from by the end of the third grade. a goal of 100,000.
tunately. our schools are not." 

The Texas governor was lin­those who would throw money According to statistics cited Gore also wants to triple theBush reached out to McCain 
ing up the endorsement of into schools without reforming by the Bush campaign, 68 number of charter schools,
after Bob Dole, the defeated 
Forbes at an evening rally in them," Bush said. percent of the _fourth graders make preschool available to
1996 GOP nominee who has 
the millionaire publisher's Back at the White House, in the nation's poorest-school every 4-year-old and expandbeen acting as peacemaker, 
1.,. .,,

l 9 ' 1. --. ! "' • 1-" A , ... .; ..... r, Y\ home state of New Jersey. His Gore scoffed that Bush's edu-areas were not able to read at Head Start. 

7th Annual eal Auction at Notre Dame 8:00 pm, RECKERS! THIS THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2000 Sponsored by Breen-Phillips Hall We cordially invite you to join us and bid on meals featuring the finest faculty and staff that Notre Dame has to offer. Members ofthe Notre Dame community have generously donated their time and meals, for which you andyourfriends may bid. All ofthe proceeds go to benefit the American Diabetes Association, so please assist us in aiding this worthy cause. Featuring meals with ... The Undertones Father Hesburgh (lunch for 3) Father Timothy Scully (dinner for 3) Carmen and Lou Nanni (dinner for 4) Father Jim Lies (dinner for 3) Coach Matt Doherty (dinner for 4) Professor Jim McKenna (dinner for 4) Coach Debra Brown (dinner for 3) Ms. Rebecca Davidson (dinner for 3) Coach David Poulin (dinner for 4) Professor Ramzi Bualuan (dinner for 4) Father Bill Wack (dessert for 2-4) Father Misca1nble (dinner for 4) Professor Lawrence Cunningham (dinner for 4) Father Beauchamp (dinner for 4) Professor Richard Taylor (dinner for 4) Professor Scott Baier (dinner for 4) Professor Edward Hums (dinner for 4) Professor Barbara Mangione (dinner for 6) Mr. Bill Kirk (dinner for 4) Professor Anre Venter (dinner for 4)  


I I 
• ...._,.,.,._..,,_._ ... _..-__ ..._ ___-----...~_,..__............. _ _,_•...,.. _..,..,,,. • -... ,..• " r •· •-• • 
I

.. -_...... --.. ----.... ----.-.... -~..,-..,,;,.-..,..,..._~.,. -_,._. -·--· ___.. ___ ---·-·-· -· ­
Wednesday, March 29, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Scientists blame faulty engines in Mars trip failure 
. Inadequate funds contributed to  said the engine shutdown proba­bly was caused by a spurious sig­nal from one of the spacecraft's  NASA engineers to cut corners, work up to 80 hours a week. and limited testing of equipment and  Washington. A new Mars man­ager would also be named at JPL, said Weiler.  issues," he said. Weiler said the Mars mission could have been saved if it had  
crash of $165  three landing legs. It's thought  procedures, leading to an "unac­ Additionally, Weiler said he  been better financed at the start.  
million Mars probe  that the on-hoard computer interpreted this signal to mean  ceptable high risk" for a complex and  very  was canceling plans to launch a new Mars lan­ but the effort was driven by a "faster, better, cheaper" NASA  
Associated Press  the craft had landed and it then commanded the engines to stop.  demanding mission, he  ..We pushed them too far  der next year, but would  philosophy that started in the 1990s with reduced space  
"We're almost cer.tain that if  said.  The  and I will not condemn  allow  a  Mars·  agency budgets.  
WASI IINGTON A prPmature rocket engine shutdown may have doomed the  the lander got to this point Iabove the Mars surfaceI. then this was the cause of the failure,"  contractor for thl~ Mars project was  them because they failed. "  orbital mission to proceed. That mission  "We were pushing the enve­lope too far" by asking JPL engi­neers to "do the impossible," said  
Mars Polar I,ander. but the core  said Young, a retired NASA and  Lockheed  calls  for  a  Weiler. "We pushed them too far  
cause of the botched mission was NASA trying to do too much with too little. investigators found.  industry executive who led the investigation team. However, Young pinned thl~  Martin Astronautics in Denver.  Ed Weiler NASA associate director  spacecraft to map the min­erals and  and I will not condemn them because they failed." Weiler also ordered a detailed  
Thomas Young, head of an  underlying cause of the failure  Ed Weiler,  water  on  the  reexamination of NASA's whole  
indP-pendent tPam that investi­ on "inadequate funding and  NASA associ- Red Planet.  Mars  exploration  program,  
gatf~d the failurn for NASA, said  inadequate margins" in the plan­ ate director in charge of science,  Weiler said cash reserves for  which involves launches every  
his group was "almost certain"  ning and execution of NASA's  said the space agency would  the Mars program would now be  two years ending with a  2006  
that the $1<>5 million J\,fars probe  Mar-s exploration program at the  "fully respond" to recommenda­ held at headquarters, instead of  attempt to bring back to Earth  
automatically stopped its engines  Jet Propulsion Laboratory in  tions.  JPL, thus forcing the California.  pieces of the planet.  
early and then fell some 130 feet,  California.  He said Scott Hubbard, a NASA  managers  to  come  to  NASA  He said that program will be  
smashing into the Mars surface  The Mars program, he said,  executive at the Aines Research  headquarters if there are prob­ revised to include the limitations  
at about 50 mih~s per hour.  "was underfundcd by at least :-rn  Center in California, would take  lems.  of the budget, a  reduction in  
Young, presenting his report  t " percen .  over a  new position as  head of  "We don't want our best peo­ risks and a relaxed schedule of  
Tuesday at a news conference,  This forced contractor and  the  Mars  program  in  ple at JPL to be afraid to raise  launches.  

TOUR GUIDE 

Choate 
Choate seeks Reform 
\ 

Party stability 
was brewing over the same 
Associated Press 
issue that sparked much of the original infighting: WhereWASHINGTON to hold the party's nominatingReform Party Chairman Pat convention Aug. 15.

Choate turned from his own Several Reform Party offi­party's problems Tuesday to cials said Pat Buchanan, thethe general election, challeng­front-runner for the presiden­
ing Al tial nomination, and some 
Gore and 
party leaders now want the
George 
event moved from Long
W. Bush 
Beach, Calif. Buchanan's 
to prove 
allies, including supporters of
they're 
party founder Ross Perot,
really 
fought for that site againstreformers backers of Minnesota Gov.
by forgo-Jesse Ventura. They wanted 

n g 

the event held in his home 
unregu­

state.
1 a t e d The Long Beach Conventioncampaign contributions. 

& Entertainment Center is
"Either do the reform thing now a problem for logistical 
-stop taking soft money, 
and political reasons, these 
stop taking PAC money -or 
officials said. A competing
stop calling yourself' a 
conference by the Jehovah'sreformer," Choate said at a Witnesses is scheduled there 
nows conference at the for the same week, which
National Press Club, ono day would leave the party fewer 
after a federal judge upheld 
than 12 hours to set up its 
his chairmanship of the frac­event.
tured organization. 
There also is concern thatHe said stabilizing the party organizers would not be ablewon't be as difficult as skep­

to keep Buchanan's oppo­
tics contend. 

nents from protesting in the"George Bush is going to hallways of the public build­have a tougher time getting ing, creating a security haz­
John McCain's endorsement 
ard.
than I am pulling this party "What was envisioned is no together," Choate said. 
longer possible," Choate said 
But already, more trouble 
Reverend Richard S. Vosko 
A IHlOUSE FOfR TIHJIE COHU~CH: STRUCTU~IES FOR fPUfBl~C WO~SH~IP ~N A NIEW M~lllENN~UM 
The Second Annual Mark Searle Lecture in Liturgy 
THURSDAY• MARCH 30, 2000 • 8:00 P.M. 
HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
University of Notre Dame 
SPONSORED BY THE NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR PASTORAL LITURGY 

later Tuesday. 
For Buchanan. the issue is logistics -not enough avail­able hotel rooms near the convention site to house his entourage. according to Bay Buchanan, his campaign manager and sister. Aides have scouted cities from New Orleans to San Diego and seem satisfied with Nashville, Tenn., she said Tuesday. 
''It would make a marvelous statement," she added. "It's middle America." 
The new problnms arose as Choate and Buchanan empha­sized that Monday's court rul­ing had put the party's fierce infighting behind it, and that Choate's leadership will put the party on track to mount a credible challenge to Gore and Bush, the expected Democratic and Republican presidential nominees. 
Choate also announced plans to move the party's headquarters to Washington. 
r­
:'li,
•ii
,, ,~ 

Join us for all or 
Come be challenged by the message of 
part of the day! 
Fr. Jim Lies, CSC Fr. Bill Wack, CSC 
No Sign-up 
with special guests: Archbishop Oscar Rodriguez Required! of Tegucigalpa, Honduras & Amy Seamon, '00 
All are Welcome! 
Come be moved by the music and worship led by Personal Talks! 
Paul Hillebrand & ND Celebration Choir 
Workshops!
with sp_ecial guest: Danielle Skorich, '02 
Great Music! 
Saturday, April 1 
South Dining Hall 
10:00 am -5:30 pm 

0MPU5 

For more info: fsantoni@nd.edu or 1-3250 
tv11NISTRY 
Wednesday, l\1arch 29, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
CHINA 
ISRAEL 

Netanyahu denies
U.S. under human rights accusations 
Assocjated Press 
BEIJING 

Ahead of a visit by President Clinton's scrurity advisfH, China accusnd \t\'ashington today of demonstrating a dou­ble standard by seeking U.N. censure of Beijing dospite having its own "very serious human rights problem." 
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Sun Yuxi's com­ments came just hours before National Security Adviser Sandy Hergcr was due in Beijing for talks with Chinese President Jiang Zemin, Premier Zhu Hongji and thPir foreign policy team. 
Berger is one of the most senior Clinton administration officials to visit since U.S.­China ties plummflted after NATO bombed the Chinesc Embassy in Yugoslavia during tlrn fighting over Kosovo 10 1/2 months ago. 
Berger, who accompanicd Clinton to South Asia last week, is expected to discuss shared U.S. and Chinese con­cerns over Pakistan and India·s nuclear programs. !In also will likdy raisP human rights concflrns and reiterate appeals for Chinese restraint following Taiwan's presiden­tial election 10 days ago. 
Chin a is fighting a U.S. effort at the current meeting of thn U.N. Jluman Hights Commission in Geneva to cen­sure Beijing for what Washington says is a worsen­ing Chinese rights record. 
Sun, the Chinese spokesman, predicted the U.S. effort would fail, as similar . attempts have in previous vears. IIP said tlw U.N. com­inission should not be a forum 
for political confrontation and Beijing opened what both 
corruption charges
that China wants to settle dis­sides hope will be tlH~ final 
putes over human rights round in years of negotiations through dialogue. on China's entry into the Sun said tlrn United States World Trade Organization. 
Associated Press

would do better to look at its Unlike in two previous ses­own pro bIe m s "_i nstead of sions this year, European 
JERUSALEM
making irresponsible remarks Union trade commissioner 
Delivering an emotional
and accusations against other Pascal Lamy took part in the 
television appeal, Former
countries." talks. His spokesman, Anthony 
Israeli Prime Minister
" T h e United 
States has ..The United States has a a very seri­very serious human 
ous human 
rights problem, with
rights problem, constant ethnic 
with con­discrimination, police 
stant eth­
violence, police abuse 
nic dis­
cri mina­and also discrimination 
tion, police against women, and violence, 
there are also constant
police 
incidents such as
abuse and also dis­shootings in the schools." 
crimination against 
Sun Yuxi

women, 
and there Chinese Foreign Ministry aro al so spokesman constant incidents 
such as shootings in the negotiations in November that 
from a contractor, kept 700 
schools," Sun said at a brief­ended with a market-access presents meant to be state 
ing for reporters. flp, accused agreement and cleared 
property, including a goldenWashington of "double stan­Beijing's biggest obstacle to 
letter opener from U.S. Vice 
dards and hegemonism." joining WTO. The 15-nation 
President Al Gore, and tried to 
Sun also indirectly warned EU is now the most important 
influence others to alter their 
\Vashington not to allow a among eight \VTO members 
testimony in the case. 
visit by Taiwan President­with which China must con­
If tried and convicted of the 
elec:t Chen Shui-bian, hinting clude separate access agree­
most serious charge, obstruc­
that tics could suffer. China ments. 
tion of justice, Netanyahu
regards Taiwan as its own China has been trying to join 
could be sentenced to up to 
territory with no right to world trade's rule-making 
seven years in prison. 
diplomatic relations. Beijing body for 14 years. The com­Netanyahu, 50, who was 
distrusts Chen because his munist leadership hopes WTO 
tosse.d out by voters 10 months Democratic Progrcssivt~ Party membership will bring in for­ago, launched a counter-offen­
favors indPpendencc for eign investment and force 
sive against the police in an 
Taiwan. long-cosseted state industries apparent attempt to rescue his 
Also todav, EuropPan and to make reforms they have 
political future. 

ChinPSP traclP rwgotiators in resisted. 
During the TV appearance, the former leader mentioned his son and recently-deceased 
mother as he denied the alle­gations -even, at one point, brandishing a supposedly valu­able brooch which he said an appraiser had valued at $1.
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION NEEDS YOU TO 
"The whole thing is. ridicu­lous," Netanyahu scoffed dur­
ing the prime time interview. Apparently relishing the underdog role, the SO-year-old 
WORK FOR 
REUNION 2000! 
politician accused police of making up. the charges, saying
(June 7-11) 
he was being persecuted by the political establishment because of his hardline views. 
Shlomo Ben-Ami, the police
EARN MONEY AND HAVE FUN AT THE SAME TIME. 
minister, denied police acted in bad faith. "The police did
SHUTTLE FOLKS AROUND CAMPUS, REGISTER 
not, do not, and as long as I am responsible for police, \Nill
GUESTS IN THE DORMS, CARE FOR CHILDREN AT THE 
CHILD CARE CENTER OR ASSIST HEADQUARTERS. THERE ARE OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE. 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT STUDENT EMPLOYMENT (115 Main Building) OR THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
(100 Eck Center). 
Gooch, said 
Benjamin
Lamy was here 
Netanyahu
to deal with 
angrily
thorny political 
denied any
issues, not 
wrongdo­
technical mat­
i n g
ters of trade. 
Tuesday
After the 
a f t e r 
. brief opening 
police
round of talks, 
urged the


Lamy was 

at to r n e y Netanyahu
invited to meet 
general to
Premier Zhu 

indict him and his wife on cor­
Wednesday 
ruption charges.
morning 

During a 50-minute inter­
before resum­

view, Netanyahu occasionally
ing negotia­

used props and paused dra­
tions, Gooch 

matically to emphasize his
said. 

innocence and to accuse police
Zhu inter-

of trumping up the charges
vened twice 
against him.
crucially dur-

Police said Netanyahu and
ing China-U.S. 

his wife, Sara, accepted favors 
AT REUNION 
MANY JOB 
not have a political agenda," 
he said. 
Police said that a seven­
month investigation indicated 
that Netanyahu should be 
charged with fraud, attempted 
misuse of' state funds, breach 
of trust and obstruction of' jus­
tice . 
His lawyer, Yaacov 
Weinroth, called the police 
report "sloppy." He said it 
"confirms what we thought ­
the case is one big nothing." 
The attorney general, 
Elyakim Rubinstein, will make 
the final decision on whether 
to indict. It was unclear how 
long that process might take. 

Arguing his case, Netanyahu said police interrogated him as to whether a small, valuable -pendant was among the state gifts. When he got home from that particular interrogation session, he said he and his wife "turned the house upside 
down" and found the pendant. 
They took it to an appraiser, 
and were told it is worth less 
than a dollar, Netanyahu said, 
waving the tiny pin before the 
TV cameras. 
Asked what the most difficult 
moment was since the probe 
began, Netanyahu stopped and 
looked down. After long sec­
onds of silence, he said his 8­
year-old son Yair was torment­
ed at school because of the 
probe and his mother, Cila, 
died with the charges still 
hanging over him. 
The case is just one of a 
series of scandals plaguing 
Israel's leadership. Prime 
Minister Ehud Barak and his 
party are under investigation 
for violating the campaign 
finance law; police are looking 
into a large amount of money 
President Ezer Weizman 
received from a French mil­
lionaire; and incitement 
charges are being considered 
against a religious leader for 
calling a Cabinet minister 
"Satan" and other epithets. 
Netanyahu's wife, Sara, should be charged with theft and misuse of state funds, police said. Charges were also recommended against Moshe Leon, the director of Nctanyahu's office, and Ezra Zeidoff, his office manager. 
Netanyahu had virtually dis­
appeared from public life in 
Israel after he was trounced by 
Barak. a moderate-, in May 
1999. 


(RETURN APPLICATIONS TO THE ALUMNI 
N\ 'Proludf> to ~enefit ~~ m,,-ni
ASSOCIATION BY FRIDAY, MAY 5.) 
Sponsored By ndf s
R--~ oco 
-7 NOTU DAME fOOD SUVICU 
.... ·.. •-• .... 

"Jubilee Debt Relief & Women's Concerns" THURSDAY, March 30, 2000 7:30 -9:00pm SR. ESTHER AnJOA ENTSIWAH -GHANA Ms. BAYYINAH BELLO-HAITI 
at the Center for Social Concerns 
"The Church Responds to Jubilee Debt Relief" 
FRIDAY, March 31, 2000 12:00-2:oopm 
ARCHBISHOP OSCAR RODRIGUEZ -HONDURAS Brown Bag Lunch at the Center for Social Concerns 
-Refresh1nents Served 
"Jubilee Debt Relief: A Call for Global Solidarity & Response" 
SATURDAY, April 1, 2000 3:oo -4:30pm 
ARCHBISHOP OSCAR RODRIGUEZ-HONDURAS SR. ESTHER AnJOA ENTSIWAH -GHANA DR. ELIZEUS RUTEBEMBERWA -UGANDA @ Notre Dame's Snite Auditorium 
Please Join Archbishop Rodriguez & Guests for 
5:00PM Mass at the Basilica 
following the event. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE -Center for Social Concerns HOLY CROSS COLLEGE -Campus Ministry CATHOLIC CHARITIES 
-SALT & LIGHT 
HOLY CROSS FAMILY OF CONGREGATIONS 
• 
Wednesday, March 29, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Births to unwed mothers hit high 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Women in their 20s helped fuel a baby boomlet that pushed U.S. births up 2 per­cent in 1998. the first increase in several years, said a govern­ment report released Tuesday. 
The increase reflected 
growth in the number of 
women entering childbearing 
years. These daughters of 
early baby boomers are having 
their own 
kids, but get­
ting married 1998 Birth 
first is a not Rates 
necessarily a 
prerequisite . 13.94 million to becoming total births, a 2 a parent, the percent increase 
report shows. Births to in several years 
unwed moth­
. 1.29 million ers, on the rise for years, births to single 
hit an all women, a record time high in 
high

1998 and accounted for nearly half of all babies born that year, reported the National Center for Health Statistics. But unlike the 1990s, when teenagers were having children at alarming rates. today's unwed mothers are more likely to be in their 20s and 30s. 
Hesearclwrs attribute the change to a big drop in teen births, confidence in the boom­ing economy and more relaxed attitudes about unwed moth­ers. 
"The social disapproval fac­tor has definitely lessened," said Stephani<' Ventura, lead author of the report compiled from stat<' birth data. 
There were 3.94 million births in 1998, compared to 
3.88 million children born in 1997. The fertility rate, a mea­sure of births among women of 
child bearing agf~. was 65.6 percent to 87.4 births per births for every 1,000 females, 1,000 women -the highest up from 65 births per 1,000. rate since 1965. 
These were the first increas­Jacqueline Darroch, senior es in births and fertilitv rates vice president for research at since 1990, when 4.1 million Alan Guttmacher Institute, a 
children  were  private  
born and the  research  
fertility was births  rate 70.9 per  "Non-married does not necessarily mean that it's  group, said the rise in unmarried  
1,000 women.  the mother alone without  m  o  m  s  
Between 1990 and 1997, the  a father.··  doesn't necessarily  
number  of'  mean  that  
births  fell  7  Jacqueline Darroch  children  
percent as women waited  researcher, Alan Guttmacher Institute  don't have fathers  

longer to have children and teen births declined amid the availability of more reliable contraceptives, an emphasis on abstinence and fears about 
AIDS. 

Some 1.29 million babies were born to single women in 1998, up 3 percent from the prior year and the highest number reported since the government started collecting birth data in the early 1900s. 
One reason for the rise was a larger population of unmarried women of child bearing age. The number of single women between 15 and 44 rose to 
29.2 milJion women in 1998 from 28.6 million in 1997. 
Unwed women in their 20s and 30s had higher birth rates. and that was true for both white and black women. Birth rates for unwed Hispanic women in that age group fell, the report showed. 
Birth rates for all women in the 20s and 30s was also on tlrn rise. After falling during the 1990s, the birth rate for women between 20 and 24 ­the principal childbearing ages -rose 1 percent to 111.2 births per 1,000. The rate for wnmen aged 30 to 34 rose 2 

because 
m a n y 
women are 

living with, but not marrying, their part• ners. 
"Non-married does not nec­essari Iy mean that it's the mother alone without a father," said Darroch, citing a government study that showed about 4 percent of women, or about 2.6 million, living with partners. 
Donna Shalala, secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, said the trend was cause for concern. 
"The increase in births to unmarried mothers, as well as the increase in teen mothers who smoke, are troubling," said Shalala. 
Other findings: 
. 
Smoking among pregnant teens increased, especially among blacks. 

. 
The proportion of women beginning prenatal care in the first trimester continued to rise 


an encouraging sign because early care can increase the chances of having a healthy baby. 
. Multiple births continued to increase, a phenomenon tied to the use of fertility drugs. 
MEET THE AUTHOR 
Thursday, March 30 
7:00 pm 
Father Richard John Neuhaus will discuss and sign his new book entitled Death on A Friday Afternoon in which he provides a compelling account of Christ's seven last words from che Cross, including a masterful explanation of why Christians call the day on which Jesus dies "Good Friday." Father Neuhaus is the author of 
numerous books and has been described by US News and World Report as one ofthe "most influen­tial intellectuals in America." 

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phon: 631-6316 • -•.ndlloolutore.cam 
Scientists develop healthier soy oil 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Government scientists have developed a new soy­bean that's healthier for the heart because the oil need not go through a process that produces artery-clog­ging trans fatty acids and it has less than half the satu­rated fat of conventional soybeans. 
Food manufacturers ­who use soybean oil in everything from margarine to crackers -are eager to get the healthier oil because of Food and Drug Administration plans to 
require the listing of trans fats on food nutri­tion labels. 
Consumers won't see the new product before next year at the earliest, however, because the first com­mercial crop being plant­
ed  next  
month  in  
N  o  r  t  h  

Carolina will 

be saved for seed and test­ing. 
The new soybean holds "excellent potential" for food makers and "will pro­vide the needed flexibility to be used in a wide variety of products," the Institute of Shortening and Edible Oils said in a recent letter to the United Soybean Board, a producer group that helped fund the USDA research. The institute represents companies that process veg­etable oils. 
"Just by changing the kind of oil that's used by food manufacturers and restau­rants would go a long way to reducing heart disease in this country," Margo Wootan, director of nutri­tional policy for the Center 
for Science in the Public Interest, said Tuesday. 
The new soybean was developed by Agriculture Department scientists in Raleigh, N.C., using conven­tional breeding methods, not the genetic engineering that has become controver­sial in Europe and Asia. 
More than 80 percent of the vegetable oil used in cooking and food manufac­turing comes from soybeans because of its relatively low price and wide availability. 
But soybean oil cannot be used for cooking unless it is hydrogenated to extend its shelf life and improve its flavor. Hydrogenation, 

"Just by changing the kind ofoil that's used by food manufacturers and restaurants would go a long way in reducing heart disease in this country. ,, 
Margo Wootan director of nutritional policy, Center for Science in the Public Interest 
w hi Ch a I s o solidifies the oil, removes linolenic acid that causes the oil to t a s t e rancid w h e n heated. The new soybeans have a third as m u c h linolenic acid as 
conventional varieties. 
Hydrogenated oil would still be needed for some products, such as baked goods, to give them the proper texture and body, but manufacturers could blend in oil that isn't hydro­genated to lower the overall content of trans fat, accord­ing to industry experts. 
Health experts say trans fatty acids may be even worse for the heart than saturated fat. Studies indi­cate that eating trans fat increases LDL-cholesterol, often called "bad choles­terol," which increases the risk of heart diseasn. At tlrn same time, it reduces levels of HDL, the "good choles­terol" that is good for the heart. 
--· 

ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS! 
Interested i11 the 
Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships? 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will discuss the scholarships and inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Monday, April 3, 2000 
6:00 p.m. 101 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of informa­tion may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 


O
THE 

page 14 BSERVER Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P:O. Rox Q. ~orre D,1111~. IN 46'\'56 024 Sourh Oininp. I-I.ill. Norre [),m11;. IN 46'\56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mik1: Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Nom:n Cillcspie Tim Lane 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Trm Logan Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie M,mingly 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey 
SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smirh SCENE EDITOR: Am,mda Greco 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVor 
PHOTO EDITOR: Liz Lmg 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: !'at 1'1:ters 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chis Avib 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turn1:r CONTROLLER: Rob Woods 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar

I 
i, 
I 
! CONTACT Us I OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO .............631-7471
I 
!' 
I, 
FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING ....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu
[' l 
EDITOR IN CHIEF.. ..............................631-4542 MANAGING EDnoR/AssT. ME ...................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ......................................631-5313 
,,I 
NEWS............ .............................................631-5323
!, observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT... ............................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoim. J@nd.edu 
SPORTS........... .............................................631-4543 
observer.spores. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.. ...... ...............................................631-4540 
observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.......,.....................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.....................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Weh sir<: .It http://observer.nd.edu for ti.lily updates ofcampus news, sports, fe.m1res and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and hreaking news from rhe Associarcd Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-du: 

movies/music for minure forecasts 
weekly srudenr reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe• and rates of print ads 
cial c1mpus coverage 
archives ro se,1rd1 for about The Observer 

to meet the; editors ,md Auf!;uSt 1999 .mides published after staff 
POLICIES 
The Observl'r is the independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the smdenrs of the University of Notre Dame du La" and Sainr Mary's Collcgt·. Editorial content, induding adverrisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither insriturion. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported ,1s accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Ma11.1ging Editor, A~sistant M.maging Editor and department editors. Commenraries. letrlTS and columns present the views of the authors .md nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vit".vpoint space is .1vailable mall readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouragt:d. Lt:rrers ro rlie Editor musr he signed and must indudc conracr infornurion. 
Q11estiom reg,1rrli11g Ob;erverpoli,·ies should be dfrect­ed to Erlitor i11 Cf.ie/'Mikr Com1of/y. 

Forgive others as Jesus forgave us 
In a recent bible study group, we dis­cussed the story of "The Lost Son," also known as "The Prodigal Son." This is the parable in the gospel of Luke that details the life of a young man who squandered his inheritance on prostitutes and other frivolous things. Upon his return home, with nothing left, his father wekomed him back with open arms. He forgavP his youngest son without condition or hesitation. 
Although I had heard this parable many times. it wasn't until recent­ly that I thought about what it had to do with me. \\'hat does it mean for all of us today? Even though it was written cPnturies ago, its purpose is timeless. 
It is human nature to reh~asc emo­tions when something has affected us deeply. \iVhether we arc moved to tears ofjoy or sorrow. our minds seldom for­get that initial feeling of what moved us in the first place. This is applicable to our relationships with others. The majority of us function in a world where we build relationships on trust. 
The rnlationship we have with our parents is also based on trust. From birth, we were taught that with unac­ceptable behavior, certain conse­quenc:es result. It may take a lot of beg­ging, ,vashing dishes. sorting laundry and other tasks to "get back in good graces." Time heals all wounds, right? If this is human nature. then why did Jesus find it necessary to tell us the story of a father who forgave so Pasily? 
Take~ dose friends for example. Heal friPndships develop over time. A dose friend has hurt us at some point in our lives. Many of us have been hurt by the same friend manv times. Sometimes we forgive, sometimes we do not. Rarely do we forget. If the friend were truly sorry for their actions, and wanted to re­enter into a loving relationship, is it the Christian thing to make .that road back as difficult as possible? ls it the Christian thing to extend our arms without condition or hesitation? Should we strive to be like that forgiving father? 

This same parable mentions the eldest son as one who dedicated his lif'e to serving his father. He too was a recipient of his father's wealth. Instead of spending all of his money, like his brother, he continued to serve his father and never disobeyed him. Upon hearing the news that his father was rejoicing because of the younger broth­er's return. the eldest brother grew angry and critical. 
Often we want credit t'or things that we should be doing in the first place. \Ve often want to be rewarded for deeds that are respectful and "morally right... Along with this desire to be rec­ognized romes a criticism of those who stray f'rom the path that is accepted. We question. like the brother, reward­ing people whom we think should not be rewarded. Is criticizing and judging others based on our standards the morally right thing to do? 
Perhaps the answer lies in treating people with that golden rule we learned in the first grade: 'Treat others the way you want to be treated.' Perhaps we should view ea.ch other's sins as equal. One person's sin should not be viewed as bigger then our own. In th,~ fmd, God judges us all and does not discriminate. I do not believe that IJr, is selective in determining sin. I do not believe there is some big contest at the end of tlrn world railed "\Vho's the biggest sinner." 
Perhaps this is why Jesus died for all of us. Perhaps this is why it is so easy for the Lord to forgive us. \Ve all make mistakes, yet He always welcomes us back with open arms and no questions asked -withbut condition or hesita­tion. 
I certainly understand the difficulty in forgiving those who may have hurt us deeply. I struggle with the question of "well. they did it once, they'll probably do it again." It is hard to release pain. It is hard to forgive peopln we sometimes think should not be forgiven. But who are we to judge? 
Easter is certainly not that far away. This is the time that we should rd1ect on our own actions as well as the actions of others. Perhaps it is within our human natun~ to forgive others as Jesus forgave us. 
When you feel as though someone has betrayed you. it feels like disregarding that person is the easiest thing to do. You may not speak anymore; you may not even sec each other anymore. How easy it is to sweep something, or sonw­one. under the carpet. But, they are still there. That foeling insidP of you, that voice from within, that might be some­one asking for forgiveness. \Vhcn you keep so much hate and ang('r bottled up inside of you. it can literally feel like it is eating you alivc-1. 
Forgiveness is not just for the person who wants to be forgiven. It is also for the person ,,vho forgives. \-Vhichtwf~r pArson we may be, we arc all equal in spite of our faults. We are all judged and we arc all forgiven. without condi­tion or hesitation. PArhaps now is the time to extend this same grace to tl10s<' around us. Perhaps they may ne,~d it. 
Perhaps we do too. 

Kimmi .Hartin is a senior at .'-,aint Mary's. lier column appears Pvery other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not rzeces­sari(y those of The Obserrer. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
YOU KILLED ANNE L. RETENTIVE 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Giving money and power to the government is like giving whiskey and car keys to teenage boys. " 
p_J, O'Rourke humorist 


O
THE 

Wednesday, March 29, 2000 BSERVER page 15 
Bridging the gap between· people 
I realized how important the challenge is for us to "bridge the gap between people." It is often easier to talk about the importance of "relationships" and quickly become caught up in many responsibilities in "our own cirdes." It is often easier to think and Father preach about "my Don McNeil! neighbor" than to be open to encounters 
For a More 

with neighbors who 
Just and 

have voices which chal­
Humane

lrmge my comfort zone 
World

and fears. 
Morn than three 
decades ago. Notre Dame invited a priest 
psychologist from Ilolland named Henri 
Nouwrn to tl~ach in the Psychology 
Departnwnt. Ih~nri challenged me and many 
of' my Holy Cross colleagues and hundreds 
or stud(rnl"i to move beyond foar and self­
preoccupation toward love and experiential 
learning to discover the complexities of 
responding to the needs of "our neighbors." 
I think that the reflections of Henri in the last book he wrote before his sudden death in 1996 might m,sist us in this communitv to rnl1ect on our response to Jubilee Debt • Helief and many other issues facing Notre Damr now and in the years ahead. Please mad slowlv three reflections he shared in his book "i3read for the Journey: J\ Day Book for \Visdom and Faith." This is one of' morn than 40 books of Henri in the area of spirituality which have now been published and continue to be translated and published, especially in the Spanish-speaking world at this time. 
I lundn~ds of thousands ofChristians arc following meditations in a booklet "From the l lousP of Fear to thP Ilouse of Love" and taken from his book and lecturos on "The Heturn of thn Prodigal Son" during this Lent. These passages have helped me put the challenge of our response to Jubilee Debt Hnlief and othm· social concerns in perspt~c­tivo. 
Crossing the Hoad for One Another: "We become neighbors when we are willing to cross the road for one another. Them is so much separation and segregation: between black people and white people. between gay people and straight people. bfitween young people and old prn,ple, bf'tween skk people and healthy pcopln. between prisoners and free p1~oph~. bPtwe<'n Jews and Gentiles. Muslims and Christians. Protestants and Catholics, Greek Catholics and Latin Catholics. 
There is a lot of road crossing to do. We arc all very busy in our own circles. We have our own people to go to and our own affairs to take care of. But if we could cross the road once in a while and pay attention to what is happ,,ning on the other side, we might indeed become neighbors." 
Bridging the Gap Betwefm Prople: "To bl'come neighbors is to bridge the gap between people. As long as then~ is distance bPtwrcn us and we cannot look into one another's Pyes, all sorts of false ideas and images arise. We give them names. make jokes about tlrnm. cover them with our prej­udices. and avoid direct contact. We think of them as enemies. We forget that they love as we love. rare for their children as we earn !'or ours. beconrn sick and die as W<' do. We forget that they are our brothers and sisters and treat them as objecl"i that can be destroyed at will. 
Only whPn W(\ hav<' thP courage to cross thP road and look in one another's eyes can we see there that we arc children of the 
same God and members of the same human 
family." 

The speakers coming from other countries 
for this week would not have been possible 
without Father Tom McDermott, who hosted 
a group of Notre Dame faculty and staff in 
Uganda and Kenya this pa.<;t June. The 
group realized how important it would be to 
invite speakers to "cross the road to ND" 
from various settings impacted by incredible 
debt which is hampering the poor. 
Tom is a Holy Cross priest who, for me, has been a witness to the above words and spirit of Ilenri Nouwen while he was here on campus for six years working with Campus Ministry and "bridging the gap" between the people off-campus and entities like the Center for Social Concerns. His spirit, his way of loving each individual person and ability to enter into the joys and sorrows of life have been a gift to this campus. We cele­brate his return for this challenging week focusing on debt relief and our call for glob­al solidarity and response. Upon return to Africa, we hope Tom will continue "bridging the gap" by facilitating an international summer service project in Uganda for African-American Notre Dame studenli; in 2001. 
\\!hat about "crossing the road for one another" in our local Notre Dame-South Bend relationships? I am grateful that this year that there is renewed energy and vision thanks to Lou Nanni as Executive Assistant to Monk, to explore "bridging the gap" between the University and neighborhoods in South Bend, especially in the Northeast Neighborhood and the West Side. 
I have watched studenl"i in our seminar on Christian leadership listen to neighbors express their concerns and needs. We at the CSC are exploring the challenge for improved relationships for most studenli, and residents in the Northeast Neighborhood with revitalized vision and passion for shared and collaborative leader­ship. These are great signs of hope for the future. 
I condude with an expression ofgratitude for the words and deeds of Pope John Paul II in his recent trip to the Holy Land. During his time the Pope has dearly lived out the spirit of these passages from Henri Nouwen. I lis gesture at the Wailing Wall in asking forgiveness from the Jewish community for the centuries ofChristian sins of commission and omission which have caused great pain and need reconciliation. It was a gesture in a moment of silence and deep prayer. May we follow his example in praying and then acting in response to the challenges related to debt relief which can impact the lives of millions of people if we all work together in "bridging the gap" creatively. 
Don A4cNeill. CSC, is lhe founder and exec­utive director ofthe Center for Social Concerns. The Center for 5,ocial Concerns column runs every other ~Vednesday. 
lie asks that anyone interested in follow­ing up what they have learned and respond­ed to this week on debt relief or exploring creative ways lo develop relationships and programs with the South Bend residents in the Northeast Neighborhood contact the Center for Social Concerns at ND.ndcn­trsc. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Want to editfor Viewpoint? Call Lila at 631--5303 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Donate bone marrow today and save lives 
As you may or may not know, I have been diagnosed with leukemia. For those of you who have been so gracious to write or say prayers, I thank you from the bottom of my heart. Those letters get me through everyday. 
The doctors don't think I have the best of odds. The doctors can go to BC for all I'm concerned. So, I write one telling you that, hate it or love it, I WILL be among you next year. 
Secondly, I write about the upcoming bone marrow drive. Please go. I know I probably wouldn't, I would be hanging out or doing a well overdue paper or just napping or who knows what. Maybe I would want to and I'd forget, giving it a shrug at the salad bar at NDH that night. 
Please don't do that. They say blood is the gift of life. It is true. I have received many need blood transfusions since I've been here. Bone marrow is the gift of a LIFETIME. One is NOT guaranteed a bone marrow match. If you don't get one. most likely, you die. If you do, you have a chance to live. 
It will be quick and easy to get tested, and if you were ever one day selected it would be equally pain free. And someone's daughter, wife, sister or mother would live. 
Please go. 

I see a lot of people everyday whose lives are depending on it. 
Conor Murphy 
Sophomore 
Zahm Hall 
March 29, 2000 

Vote for resolution on IBM pensions 
I am writing to respectfully ask that all faculty, staff, students and alumni who hold stock in the IBM corporation carefully consider the IBM stock­holder proxy votes you make in the coming days leading to the annual stockholder's meeting on April 25. 
In the case of the IBM employees' resolution on retirement and retire­ment medical, I am asking that you vote all IBM stock held in favor of the resolution. 
The entire text of the resolution can be found in the recent annual meet­ing notice which also outlines the board of director's election and other business to be held at the annual meeting. In summary. IBM decided to change the pension plan from the long-held traditional plan to a cash bal­ance plan. 
The net result to tens of thousands of IBMers was a drastic 30 to 50 per­cent cut in retirement benefits. The public outcry and resultant Senate hearings forced IBM to restore some benefits to a subset of employees in the hopes of quelling the criticism. However, IBM chose to use age as a cri­teria for determining who received and who did not receive benefits under · the old plan. That age is 40. 
Hundreds of Notre Dame alumni who graduated after 1981 are still severely affected by this change. For example, I started in 1983 and was fully vested in IBM's retirement plan in 1988. In mid-1999 I was removed from the old plan and placed into the cash balance plan for the simple rea­son that I was not quite 40 years-old. The personal cost to me was an approximate 40 percent loss in pension value. If I had been one year older and worked seven fewer years at IBM, I would have received my full pen­sion. 
This raiding of the pension plan was done at a time of record IBM earn­ings. In the early 1990s, when IBM still held respect for the individual high, the IBM pension fund was left untouched despite the fact the companv was losing billions of dollars. · 
My story is not at all unusual. and in fact it is rather average.· I sincerely hope that a Catholic university that prides itself on teaching Christian and moral values to il;; students and the community at large will carefully con­sider its vote on this issue and cast a vote in favor of' the stockholder resolu­tion. 
John W. Goetz 
Class of '83 M.irch 27, 2000 

,----------------------------;----------------------------------------­
\ 
) 
• ,I J 

cene 

page 16 Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
Out of the garbage and into the history books 
I had sonw Garbagr Pail Kids when I was younger. People ah\'ays act surprised when Garbage Pail Kids come up in con­vrrsation. but seriously. nOJH' of us will rver f'orgf't ... Scotty Potty. /\dam Bomb. Corrodr.d Carl and Junkf'ood John -just to nam{' a few. Some otlH'r fun names of Garbage Pail Kids 

are Dirty Ilarry. Hob Slob, Varicosr \\'avne, Fake Jake. Shrunkt•n Ed and Clu;rkv Charles. 
The Garbage Pail Phenonu•non was pret­ty amazing. Four mf'n started it and thf'n got Topps Cards to carry thr first series. Art Spit>gt>lman \\'as one of tho four. He also wrotr the Pulitzer PrizP winning Maus 
II. For those of' vou who don't know, ~1aus II is a cartoon about the holocaust !which Art's fathPr ,.,·as a survivor of) in which Jpwish pPople arf' depicted as mice and Nazis are depicted as cats. It is often hard­bound, so we are talking serious comic-book action. 
Another crPator of Garbage Pail Kids was Mark Newgarden. I couldn't dig up 
Scott Little 
just a little 

anything on this guy, but he was involved in the comic busi­ness as well. ThP third creator was John Pound. This guy. as well. was a comic book artist. Ile did most of the illustrations. llis artwork is renowned in the comic book world. He also rer,ently canw up with a set of trading cards railed "Meanie BabiPs." And the fourth creator is Jay Lynch who wrote for \1ad magazine. Bazooka Joe comics. did illustrations for the Chicago Sun and worked on some underground comic books. 
If you'll remember, bark in the '80s, a popul-ar toy for girls to have was the Cabbage Patch Kid. ThPse big-headed. dim­pled, orphan children didn't offer boys very much. They had birth certificates to fill out and cute names. It was really way too much responsibility. Boys had little they could do. \Ve could pretend that the Cabbage Patch Kids didn't exist by immersing ourselves in He-Man or GI Joe. But it is hard to do wh<'n your neighbors won't stop riding around on their new Cabbage Patch Big \Vheel. and every commercial break during afternoon cartoons boasts of the latest Cabbage Patch Kid. They wPre always coming out with new ideas: Oriental Cabbage Patrh Kid, Black Cabbage Patch Kid, Tcrnthing Cabbage Patch Kid and First day at school Cabbage Patch Kid. Thf' only real ans\.ver to this invasion of girl culture was a direct attack. 
And thus, the Garbage Pail Kid was a knight in shining armor. I don't mean to make it sound like it was only for boys. There were many noble girls fighting for the cause as well. But it was kind of known that the Cabbage Patch was girl ter­ritory and if you were in it -and a guy -you wouldn't be considered a boy for very long. 
The first series of Garbage Pail Kids cards came in 1985. There were 15 series total. All in all there were 620 cards, but each card had a twin. A twin was the exact same card with a different name on the bottom. For example, Up Chuck and Heavin' Strven. and Boozin' Bruce and 0runk Ken. So all in all. there werf' actually 1,240 Garbage Pail Cards to collect ­plus at least one was a triple. There were also different, big­ger collectibles. too. The very, very first card -card one, series one -was Nasty Nick. and his twin Evil Ed. 
Garbage Pail Kids can still be found today. They can be bought and sold on the Internet. The most expensive price you'll encounter is $225 for the box set of series one. The prices of individual cards are actually quite reasonable though. Maybe someday we'll have a Garbage Pail Kids of Notre Dame. \Ve could even create some of our own. Like Patty 0'Splatty, or Father Plutoni Torn, Tony Screw Driver or Father Edward Sore in the Face. 
The Garbage Pail Kid Phenomenon was rather short-lived, thanks to worried moms. Moms hated Garbage Pail Kids. They were repulsive and often depicted things that couldn't be mentioned at thP dinner table. There was going to be a Garbage Pail Kids cartoon in 1988 on CBS Saturday mornings, but it never aired because so many concerned mothers called in. 
The legacy did move on though. Garbage Pail Kids went international. In France they were called "The Trash Can Kids" and in Australia th(~Y were called "Thi~ Garbage Pail Gang." They were almost all bootleg cards. There have even brPn sightings of GPKs in Israel. In a sense, they will live on forever. and like most great ideas. their sprc~ad can't ever be stopped. \Ve can only hope that future generations will be cre­ative enough to solve social problems using methods similar to those of the Garbage Pail Kids. . 
PS: Sorry there are no pictures of GPKs here. I would have gladly put some here if they let me. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Renowned composer g 

By KATIE McVOY Scene Wrirer 

If you watched all of the Aca.demy Awards Sunday night, you might know that composer John Corigliano's score for "The Hed Violin" won thf' Oscar for Best Original Score. Corigliano vvas one of several com­posers mrntioned in a discussion about composers who cross over tlw line between writing music for film and concPrt compos­ing. 
Dr. Michael Schelle. a professor at Butler University. gave a lecture entitled. "The Gold Chain around the Hairy Chest of Hollywood," on Monday in the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's College. 
One may wonder why anyone would attend a lecture with that title, or why. for 
that matter, anyone would  use  that  as  a  
title.  
Schelle said. "Many directors feel  that  

the musi<:al score of the film is the gold chain around an otherwise hairy opera­tion." He found the metaphiJr while researching his recent book "The Score." 
Music in Hollywood films has changed a lot since the advent of sound in pictures. Early in the 1930s. Hollywood composers worked with existing compositions and fit­ted them for the films they were working on. The original "Dracula." starring Bela Lugosi, has a score that would sound very familiar to anyone who is part of the ballet world. "Dracula" and the ballet "Swan Lake" claim the same score. 
In the middle years of Hollywood. the 1940s and 1950s, many composers kept one foot in the concert composition busi­ness while keeping the other foot in film composing. 
Today, however. there is very little cross over remaining. Most composers focus either on film or concert music and only dabble in the other field occasionally. For example, Corigliano is a concPrt composer who has only written scores for three movies. 
On the other side of composing. Thomas Newman. who has written the scores for "Arne ·,,. t>><,0a t " "The Gree M·te"1 an
,r1,,an u y. , .,n , d "The Shawshank Redemption," recently wrote a piece for the world famous Cleveland Orchestra. 
Schelle attributes the greater isolation partly to differences in the two versions of the industry: "Hollywood composers are used to having the best players and record­ing until they get the best sound. They're not used to a whole union orchestra who has complaints. But a concert composer would be floored by Hollywood musicians not complaining." 
Following his brief introduction to music in the film industry. Schelle showed the 
NIELSEN RATINGS 

Dr. Michael Schelle spoke to Saint Mary's stude importance of musical scores in film. His speect Hairy Chest of Hollywood" concentrated on co film and concert music. 
audience just what he was talking about with several film clips that demonstrated the variety of uses and types of music that composers have used throughout the histo­ry or llollywood film making. 
The first film clip from "The Spiral Staircase" featured music by Roy Webb, a f'ilm composer who composed during the 1940s. Webb made use of a classical Chopin piece during the opening credits of the movie that dissolved into his original score. showing the transition from already 

Show 

Acadamy Awards Countdown to Osca1 Who Wants to be a ER Who Wants to be a l Who Wants to be a I Friends Fraiser Daddio Law and Order 

l. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 




cene 
Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
page 17 

iives lecture at SMC 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 

:mts Monday about composing and the 
h, entitled "The Gold Chain around the 
,mposers who cross the line between 
.J 
existing music to new composition. 
Bernard Herman was next in the line­up. Herman's name may be familiar from the credits of one of the many Alfred llitchcock movies for which he composed scores. This particular movie for which Herman composed. "Hangover Square," was a lesser known piece about a mad composer. This piece shows dramatically thr: crossover between film and concert composition. Along with an original 

ek of Mar. 20-26 
score to und<>rwritc the action, Herman 
also had to compose a 12-mintitc piano 
concerto for the mad composer to play 
in the final minutes of the film. In this 
case. Herman's music "underscored the 
action and was the action," Schelle 
said. 

The next film rlip Schelle shovvcd 
would have looked verv familiar to anv 
four vcar old if onlv the director had 
added a dancing ca,;delabra. An origi­
nal vPrsion of' "Beauty and the Beast," 
with a scon• written by George Aurich, 
showed a European movie that made 
use of' music. Europeans today are 
more likely to be composing both for 
the concert hall and for films. 

Movie music experienced a new phe­nomenon that came directly from Japan. The score from the movie "Ran," a violent Japanese film about samurai, began a new trend called composing against thP action. f-ilm composers todav still make frequent use of this stvle: when sound effects of a very vio­lent or disturbing scene fade away and are replaced by a floating melody. 
"Our emotional reaction to what is going on is really captured in the score," Schelle said. He showed "Hevolution," a film that appeared onscreen in the l 980s, as an example of' this kind of music. 
Schelle then showed a clip of a film that had a scon' composed by Aaron Copeland. Copeland, who died recently. is still hailed as the Dean of' American Music. If is concert compositions are playt!d by orchnstras \\'orld wide. lie also crossed over thl' line and explored the world of movie music. 
Ip addition to famous movies. such as "Of !\.1ice and Men." Copeland composed the score for a film called "Something \Vild." In this film. the film watcher hears a side of Copeland's music that Americans seldom recognize. 
"As !the main character) falls into her dream." Schelle said. "We get the dark side of' Copeland that we don't know ~o much about in this country." 
As a finale for his lecture, Schelle showed a piece of film that had a score composed by one of the premier con• cert composers in Japan, Akira If'ukube. lfukube, whose compositions are known world wide, composed the score for the original "Godzilla." Schelle added an interesting piece of film trivia: Godzilla's growl was created by playing descending notes on the E chord of a double bass backwards. 
So. "The Gold Chain around the Hairy Chest of' Hollywood" proved to be a wonderful exploration into the world of movie music. 
Rating  
29.2  
r 2000  20.6  
Millionaire  19. 5  
18.3  
Millionaire  17.3  
Millionaire  14.4  
14.3  
13. 7  
13.5  
13.4  

Total Viewers 
29.4 million 
20.8 million 
19.6 million 
18.4 million 
17.4 million 
14.5 million 
14.4 million 13. 9 million 1 3.6 million 13. 5 million 
Source: Associated Press 

AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 
Diva Whitney Houston was suddenly replaced by Faith Hill at the Oscars due to a bad rehearsal. Her publicist claims her dismissal was caused by a sore throat, rather than her poor performance. 
Photo courtesy of www.whitney-fan com 


Hill replaces Houston at Oscars 
LOS ANGELES 

The official word is that a sore throat kept Whitney Houston from singing at the Academy Awards. A newspaper, however, reported that she was dropped from the show after bombing in rehearsals. . . 
The New York Post on Tuesday quoted unidentified sources as saymg that Burt Bacharach, a musical director for the Oscar ceremony. was so frustrat­ed with Houston during rehearsals last week that he pulled the plug on her performance. 
Houston's publicists said the singer backed out because her throat was sore. 
"J was in the rehearsal myself the whole time. and it was really obvious the poor lady was having a problem with her throat," Oscar show publicist Jane LaBonte said Tuesday. 
Houston. Bacharach and others involved in the show decided that it would be better if she did not perform, LaBonte said. Ilouston was scheduled to join other singers in a medley of movie songs. She ,vas replaced by country singer f-aith Hill. The Post quoted a source as saying Houston sho":?d up for re~~a.~sal last Thursday, gave Bacharach only 15 minutes and was totally out of it. 
A source told the paper that Houston seemed a bit "discombobulated" dur­ing further rehearsals Friday. missing a cue and singing the wrong song. That's when Bacharach decided to replace her, the source said. 
Priestly on probation for drunk driving 
LOS ANGELES 

Former "Beverlv Hills 9021 O" star Jason Priestley pleaded no contest 
Tuesday to drunke·n driving in a crash that totalled his car and injured a 
friend. He was given five days at a rehab center and three years on proba­
tion. 

Priestley, 30. entered the plea through an atto~n?y to a reduced ch!1~ge of 
misdemeanor driving under the influence with mJury. The actor ongmally 
•faced felony charges in the Dec. 3 wreck that left his passenger with a bro­ken arm. "It worked out well, considering," said Peter Knecht, Priestly's attorney. 
'Tm happy with the result, and so is he." Priestley has said he swerved to avoid hitting a deer just before the wreck. 
Swank's speech infuriates mother 
LINCOLN. Neb. Hilary Swank's Oscar acceptance speech infuriated JoAnn Brandon, whose daughter was portrayed by Swank in "Boys Don't Cry.".. ,, 
Brandon said she objected when the actress thanked Brandon Teena -a name that Brandon's daughter, Teena Brandon, used instead of her given name -and referred to her as a man. 
"That set me off," JoAnn Brandon said. "She should not stand up there and thank my child. I get tired of people taking credit for what they don't know." As the film recounts, Teena Brandon posed as a man. dated a woman and then was killed at 21 bv two men after they learned her secret. 
JoAnn Brandon criticized the filmmakers for failing to explain that her daughter was sexually molested by a man as a girl. She said Teena Brandon br,gan dressing in men's clothing and dating women. 
"She pretended she was a man so no other man could touch her." she said. 
Prime Minister commits social faux pas 
CANBERRA. Australia Prime Minister John Howard may have breached royal protocol by touch­ing Queen Elizabeth II. TV images showed Howard apparently putting his hand on the queen's back as he introduced her to dignitaries at a reception Monday. Howard dismissed the brouhaha and refused to reveal whether he had touched the queen. "It is terrific to see the press focusing on the big political issue of the day," he said. sarcastically. 
In 1992, then-Prime Minister Paul Keating touched the queen's back dur­ing her visit to Australia. One British tabloid branded Keating "The Lizard of Oz" for the encounter. 


--,-------------------­
Wednesday, March 29, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 18 

NBA 
Atkins steps up to lead Orlando to 122-87 victory 
Conference. The Celtics. who baskets to open the second points to pull the Wolves with­fourth quarter behind Todd 
Associated Press 
led by as many as 13 points in half. Sacramento built its lead in 97-96 with two minutes left. Day's 3-point shooting. A 3­
r 
I I 
the first half. have lost five in a to 70-60, holding New York to He had a chance to give pointer by Day capped a 19-3
OHLANDO, Fla. 

row. four points in the opening 7:52 Minnesota the lead with 1 :25 run and pulled the Suns to 70­
No Darrell Armstrong was 
Boston made 37percent of its of the third period. remaining, but he missed two 69 with 5:24 left. 
no problem for Orlando. 
shots and had only one starter Houston hit a 3-pointer to free throws. After Phoenix moved aheadThe Magic floor leader was in double figures as Vitaly start a 7-0 run that pulled the Garnett made up for it a 75-73 on Rogers' 3-pointer,ejected following his second Potapenko scored 10 points. Knicks within three points, but minute later with a jumper in the Heat tied the game on P.J.
technical at the 10:39 mark of Starters Antoine \Valker {five the Kings finished the period the lane to tie it at 100. Brown's jumper, then went inthe third quarter with Orlando points) and Paul Pierce (eight) with a 12-9 run and entered Trailing 59-49. the front for good on Mourning'strailing the Boston Celtics 52­were a combined 4-for-24 the fourth period with an 82-, Timberwolves opened the third slam dunk.
50 Tuesday. But his backup, from the field. Barros came off 76 lead. quarter with a 12-5 run, but Mourning's free throw gaveChucky Atkins, calmly stepped the bench to lead Boston with The Kings led 88-84 when Toni Kukoc hit two straight 3-the Heat a 79-7 6 read with
in and scored 12 of his 21 
19 points. they went on a 7-2 run that pointers to push Philadelphia's 11.9 seconds left. and Hoge rs points in the third quarter to "We have been inconsistent included three points by lead back to 70-61. missed a potential game-tyinghelp Orlando to a 122-87 victo­like this all year," Barros said. Webber and four straight free Iverson 's spinning, reverse 3-pointer in the closing sec­ry. 
"Half to half, quarter to quar­throws by Stojakovic -one layup at the 2:30 mark gave onds.
Atkins said he knew what he ter, game to game. Tonight due to a technical foul on the 76ers their biggest lead at Mourning finished with 20had to do with Armstrong out. 
was just a classic example of Ewing -to take a 95-86 lead 78-65. points and 12 rebounds for
"It's a confidence boost to 
what has happened over a with 3:47 remaining. Iverson scored 24 points in Miami.
play like this, but it's nothing 
seven-month period. Great at New York pulled within 95-the first half on 9-of-14 shoot­
new to me," Atkins said. "As 
times. good at times. terrible 90 on four straight free throws ing as the Sixers led 59-49 at
the backup point guard, I'm 
at times." by Sprewell and Chris Childs, halftime. Hill had a double­
counted on to come in and get RAPTORS 99 CAVALIERS 96
Barros' running jumper with and got within four points at double in the half with 12
things done. Darrell went out 
seven-tenths of a second 97-93 on a 3-pointer by points and 11 rebounds.
and I was able to come in and Charles Oakley hit a 3-point­
remaining gave Boston a 52-50 Houston with 1:25 left, but With Iverson scoring 13
compensate. My mindset was er from the baseline corner as
lead at halftime. Boston held a could get no closer. points in the first quarter. the
to go out and play hard." time expired to give the
13-point lead ai the 7:27 mark Corliss Williamson and 76ers took a 30-24 margin into
The Magic seemed to get Toronto Raptors an improba­
of the second quarter, but the Webber had 14 points apiece the second period. 
inspired from Armstrong's ble victory over the Cleveland
Magic used a 20-4 run to go as the Kings led by one point
ejection as it outscored the Cavaliers on Tuesday night.
ahead 50-47 after Armstrong at the half. Houston had 17
Celtics 40-11 in the quarter. Toronto trailed by 17 points
hit a 3-pointer and a running points and Sprewell 14 in the
After Dana Barros made both HEAT 81 SUNS 78 midway through the final
jump shot on consecutive pos­first half as the Knicks hit
free throws following the tech­quarter, then sank six of seven 
sessions. But the Celtics seven of their first 10 shots.
nical. the Magic went on a 19-Tim Hardaway hit his first shots from 3-point range dur­
answered with a 3-pointer by including two 3-pointers by
0 run as Boston missed its first six shots and finished with 20 ing a 33-13 run and snapped a
Adrian Griffin before Barros' Sprewell.
11 field goal attempts. Danny points Tuesday night as the four-game losing streak.
shot to give Boston the lead.' 
Fortson gave Boston its first Miami Heat rebounded from Dee Brown hit consecutive 3­basket of the third quarter at one of their worst losses of the pointers to give the Raptors a the 6:45 mark to make it 69-76ERS 102, season by holding off the 96-94 lead with 1:15 remain­
56. KINGS 103 KNICKS 95 Phoenix Suns. ing.
TIMBERW0LVES 100 
From there. Orlando ended On Sunday, the Heat lost to Oakley then blocked shots by the quarter on a 21-7 run to After leading the Sacramento Orlando 94-69, scoring an Wesley Person and Lamond
Allen Iverson scored 43 

lead 90-63. The Magic made Kings to victory. Chris Webber NBA all-time low 19 points in Murray on consecutive Cavs
points Tuesday night. includ­
16 of 24 field goals in the took care of unfinished per­the second half and only seven possessions.
ing two foul shots with 1.8 sec­
quarter while Boston was 3-sonal business -getting his as the Philadelphia points in the fourth quarter. Cleveland finally tiP,d it on a
onds left. 

for-23. 10th rebound to complete his The Heat nearly followed driving scoop shot by Bob Sura
76ers defeated Minnesota for 
"When he [Armstrong] got fourth triple-double of the sea­that with another embarrass­with 20.5 seconds to play.
their first seven-game winning
thrown out. that gave them a son. ment against the Suns. squan­Toronto then got the ball to
streak in over nine years.
lot of momentum at that \Vebber also had 21 points dering a 28-point lead to trail Vince Carter, who led the
It was the eighth time this 

point." Celtics coach Rick and tied his season high with late in the game. Raptors with 19 points. Carter
season that Iverson scored at
Pitino said. "It was truly a bad 11 assists as the Kings defeat­Miami led 60-32 in the third was well-guarded on the left
least 40 points and the 16th 
game, a debacle. They trap e d the New York Knicks quarter. but Phoenix went in wing and passed to Oakley,
time in his career. Tyrone Hill 
like a college team and you Tuesday night. Predrag front 75-73 on Rodney Rogers' whose shot rattled around the
had 18 points and 14 rebounds 
have to attack it to make the Stojakovic, back after missing 3-pointer with 2:05 left. rim and dropped through as
for Philadelphia.
extra pass and make good three games with two sprained Alonzo Mourning's slam dunk the buzzer sounded.
Kevin Garnett had 31 points

'I ! shots. You've got to give them fingers. added 20 points for put Miami back in front 77-75 Carter shot just 6-for-17
and nine rebounds for the
credit." the Kings. and the Heat held on in the from the field. mostly from the
Timberwolves. who had their 
Boston also had trouble Webber got his ninth final seconds. perimeter and had just one of
six-game winning streak 
slowing Bo Outlaw, who had rebound early in the fourth Miami, which had lost three his crowd-pleasing dunks.
snapped. Garnett's jumper
10 points. 14 rebounds, 10 period, but didn't get his 10th of its last five games. started That came with 4: 52 to play
j. 
with 15 seconds left pulled
I assists and four blocked shots. until 40 seconds remained. It the night tied with the New and pulled Toronto within 90­
Minnesota even for the first 
Ron Mercer had a game-high was his 12th career triple-dou­York Knicks for first place in 88.
time since the first quarter.
23 points as Orlando shot 55.3 ble. the Atlantic Division. Murray led Cleveland with
But Iverson was fouled by

percent. Ben Wallace added 13 Allan Houston had 33 points The Heat raced to 17-2 30 points, but was limited to
Garnett on the ensuing posses­a 
points and nine rebounds and and Latrell Sprewell added 18 lead seven minutes into the two in the f'inal quarter.
sion as he drove for the bas­
Corey Maggette had 12 and 11. for the Knicks. But Patrick game and stretched that to 30-Shawn Kemp had 20 points
ket. Terrell Brandon's last sec­
Every Magic player who Ewing had just eight points 12 at the end of the first quar­and nine rebounds for
ond 15-footer went off the 
dressed scored at least two and six rebounds, far below ter. The lead grew to 54-28 at Cleveland.
back iron. 
points. his season averages. and four halftime. with Hardaway scor­Murray scored 20 points in
Minnesota trailed 82-72 

The victory moves Orlando to turnovers in 32 minutes. ing 18 points. the first half. including a 3­
after three quarters, but bat­
within 1 1/2 games of Detroit . The Kings led 57-56 at half­Phoenix, playing its third pointer that banked in off the
tled all the way back behind 
for the seventh-place playoff time, and took a 65-58 lead as game without point guard glass with one second left to
Garnett. Garnett scored 10 
position in the Eastern Vlade Divac hit four straight Jason Kidd, rallied in the give Cleveland a 51-40 lead. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifteds is 3 p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content wichour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
SUMMER JOB: Caregiver; two chil· Look! New Home for Rent 3/4 Are you on the list?? ChubbyRain, just wanted to reiter­dren, ages 7&8. Mon-Fri,7:30AM· Bedroom 3 Bath, Cathedral ate that we've never given or NOTICES 3:15PM. Jun 12-Aug 18 Granger. , Ceilings, PERSONAL received the ''B.l." That's territory 272-6107 or 284-3485 Fireplace,Refrig,Range,Disp,Dish, I, for one, am glad On The Road we don't want to explore. Washer & Dryer.Gas heat I CIA, 2-Need help with a project? was cancelled. THE COPY SHOP car garage.Family room.Close to Hi Mrs. Walter! Lafortune Student Center Campus. Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING silly (er) Hope you have a fabulous day! 
FOR RENT
Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am­616·683·5038 services are available at Mid Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm 219-232-4527 THE COPY SHOP B.J. and Todd. Congrats on the #2 Katie Metz: Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Mid HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed• 219·340-1844 Lafortune Student Center seed. Yeah 3B. You are a spook. Free Pick-Up & Delivery! room, $1000/month. 2) 4-bedroom, Call 631-COPY Spooks are spogs. Call 631-COPY $900/month. 3) 3-bedroom, $700. NICE HOMES FOR NEXT And the Soup Nazis will surely pre­Therefore, you are a spog. 
Call Bill at 675-0776. We'll make SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA vail. almost any changes to the houses. NORTH 2773097 Kelle is too cool for words WANTED thanks for the card, lady! 
1721 Rerick 3 Bedroom. Family Fax it fast! have you learned the "thong" song It's just a fact of life. The South Bend Parks & room with Fireplace. Fenced Fax it fast! yet? Some are even. some are odd. Recreation Department {The City of Backyard, C/A Gas Heat, Across FOR SALE Fax it fast! ChubbyRain aka "Superman" South Bend) is currently accepting From Park, Very Sale Sending & Receiving Isn't it Friday yet? applications for golf rangers, con­Neighborhood Remember roomie. lock the door cessions. beverage cart drivers $995/mo. 12 mo. lease Beautiful brass bed, queen size, THE COPY SHOP and close the shades. Take no It is way past my bedtime. (must be 21) and other seasonal with orthopedic mattress set and Lafortune Student Center chances. help. Pay ranges from $6.00-$8.00 Call 232-4527 Close to Campus deluxe frame. New, never used, still luv ya kristin and kate and lauren! per hour. Apply at the County City 219-340· 1844 in plastic. $235 219-862·2082 Our Fax# (219) 631-3291 Kick some Erasmus butt on your Bldg. 14th floor EOE 616-683-5038 Hust test. g'night alll 

Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 

Don't whine! Don't complain! Don't have your mothers call the Dome Office because you didn't get your senior portrait taken! 
Do it! Do it NOW! 
,. 

SENIOR PORTRAITS WILL BEGIN 
March 2 7 -April 7 SIGN-UPS FOR PORTRAITS CAN ALSO BE DONE DURING THAT TIME 
,_ """"""oe=============================-===-=-==-=--==-====-=-==-==========d 

FIGURE SKATING 
Yagudin celebrates championship win 
Associated Press 
NICE. Frann~ 

Alexei Yagudin (~asily won thP nrnn ·s short program Tuesday at the \Vorld Figun~ Skating Championship. pro­jecting exubPrancl' as he con­f'idently hit a quad toe loop and mimicked an orchestra p(~ r f'o rm i n g a j a z z y Nutcracker. 
The two-time defending champion seP-thed with enthusiasm as he stepped and 
"There is just one said. "[But] I
stroked rapidly across the ice way to win a third was a little bit 
scared because I

strumming an air world title -to 
saw Michael

guitar. pounding work hard and to Weiss perfor­
imagined piano kPys and banging give your best. " mance and what 
happened with

invisible drums. 
his double axe!." 

Ile ended the pro­
Alexei Yagudin The champi­
gram with full­figure skater onships have
body punch in the 
air. and won straight 5.9's for presentation. 
"There is just one way to win a third world titlfi -to work hard and to give your best." Yagudin said. 
Hussian teamniate Yevgeny Plushchenko, who took Yagudin's European title last month in Vienna. also hit a quad and the required ele­nHrnts skating to "Sabre Dann'." But he lacked 20­y11ar-old Yagudin's artistry and polish. and finished sec­ond going into t!w linal long program Friday. which counts for 50 percent of the score. 
American Michael \Veiss finished third, hitting a quad by stepping out of the rela­tively simple, required doubh~ axcl. Elvis Stojko foll on his quad attempt and wound up fourth. 
Yagµdin said \Veiss· error gave him pause. 
"\Vhen I did the tough part of my routine, I landed the quad and the triple axel-triple toe loop. I was happy," Yagudin 
been dominated 
by events off the 

ice, following the unsettling razor attack on the top French skating pair Tuesday and the sudden dop­ing withdrawal Sunday of the defending pairs champions Yelena Berezhnaya and Anton Sikharulidze. 
Stephane Bernadis was cut on the forearm by a man wielding a razor when he opened his hotel room door, skating oflidals said. Bernadis managed to slam the door shut. and the attacker fled. 
NFL 
Johnson disagrees with Jets 
Associated Press 
PALM BEACH, Fla. 

The rift between the New York Jets and star receiver Keyshawn Johnson grew Tuesday when Johnson said he felt "disrespected" by the team. 
Johnson wants to have his contract renegotiated. lie has two years remaining on the deal he signed when drafted No. 1 overall in 1996, at an average of about $2 million. He feels vastly underpaid and has pointed to other NFL receivers with lesser credentials who make more. 
In a conference call from Los Angeles, Johnson said he is closer than ever to not wanting to play for the Jets again. 
Saints' Williams hires new agent 
Associated Press 
PALM BEACH, Fla. 

Ricky Williams, whose incentive-laden contract with the New Orleans Saints back­fired on him last season, has fired his agent and hired Leigh Steinberg. 
Williams had been repre­sented by Leland Harvey, who works for the rapper Master 
P. His rookie contract con­tained an $8.8 million signing bonus. but most of the seven­year, $68 million deal was 
I. 
' 
. 
,.,.-..:-.""' ~~i ... 

based on incentives. many of which were triggered upon reaching 1,600 yards in a sea­son. 
Williams was troubled all year by injuries and finished with just 884 yards on 253 carries. Edgerrin James, whom Indianapolis chose ahead of Williams, made near­ly $15 million last season. James is represented by Steinberg, one of the NFL's upper-echelon agents. 
Earlier this month, Williams was quoted in Sports Illustrated as saying he'd pre­
"No matter how much money it·s going to be, I'm almost at that point, where I can just say, ·1 won't play for the Jets anymore.'" 
Keyshawn Johnson Jets player 
"I guess you can say I'm dan­gerously close -once I get then~. there will be no turning back," Johnson said. "There's a level of no matter what they discuss with me, I may not want to continue with the Jets. I'm almost there. but I'm not quite there yet. 
"No matter how much money 
it's going to be, I'm almost at that point, where I can just say, 'I won't play for the Jets any• more.'" 
JeL'i coach Al Groh reiterated earlier this week the team will not trade Johnson, nor will it renegotiate his contract. New team owner Woody Johnson said he believes Keyshawn Johnson should honor his con­tract. 
"He is a member of the team and has a contract with the team," Woody Johnson said Monday at the NFL's annual meetings. "I think contracts are a part of this society and con­tracts are important. 
"You promise to do some­thing and sign an agreement and you can take that for what it is." 

fer the team be moved to San Antonio, Texas to be nearer his home in Austin. He later apologized. 
"Ricky wants to play in New 

Orleans,  he  likes  New  
Orleans," Steinberg said.  
Steinberg  said  he  has  

already talked to Randy Mueller, the Saints' new gen­eral manager, and will even­tually renegotiate Williams' contract. "I always renegoti­ate," said Steinberg, who has re-done deals for Steve Young and Troy Aikman more than a dozen times. 
·---····----------------::--------------------­
page 20 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Gwynn looks to top 3,000-hit club 
Associated Press 
PEOHI!\, Ariz. 

So what does Tony Gwynn do for an encore now that he's in the 3,000-hit club? 
Win another batting title in this. his 19th season? It's always possible. although Gwvnn thinks it's kind of neat that he's tied with Honus
l \ 
Wagner for the NL lead with eight. 
Win the World Series title that's eluded him his whole career? He'd love to do that, but the pitching-thin San Diego Padres make no secret that they're building toward 2002 and their new down­town ballpark. not an NL pen­nant like they won two years ago. 
How about simply staying healthy? "That's my only goal," said Gwynn, who 
turns 40 on May 
"/just want to be dent Larry
9. "l just want to 
Lucchino

be productive. positive. That's a whole 
s a i d .

That's a whole lot easier to live with 
"There's a

lot easier to live 
than going up and down. tremen­
with than going 
dously

up and down, up up and down, 
high prob­

and down, like like last year. " 
.. ability he'll
last year. 
earn it
When Gwynn 
with 502,

Tony Gwynn
rirnched down 
a n d

and golfed a sin­Padres player 
there's

gle into right­r.enter field at Montreal on Aug. 6 for his 3.000th hit. his first r,motion was relief. His milestone season hadn't exactly been a joyride. 
He'd gotten off to a hot start, then strained his left calf on May 21. Missing 44 games on two separate trips to the disabled list meant tak­ing 11 weeks to get the final 25 hits. Evervbodv was ready to relebrate; eve.rybody was asking him what it was like approaching the exclusive mark. 
And Gwynn wasn't altogeth­er thrilled. 
"It just draggr.d on and on and on" Gwvnn said. "You're just sitting there on the DL. waiting to come off. I think if I could have stayed healthy last vear and just kind of methodi­~:ally gotten 72 hits, I'd proba­blv feel a little bit difforent about it. But right now. I'm just glad that part of it is over." 
The lefty finished the season 18th on the career list with 
3.067 hits and with a .338 average, one point short of his career average. He then hit the weight room to strengtlrnn his leg and worked on his mechanics. lie says he feels good swinging the bat and 
bouncing around on the bases. 
Then came a couple of reminders that the end of his career isn't that far off. 
First, the Padres refused to guarantee his contract for 2001. instead giving him a $2 million bonus on top of this year's $4. 3 million salary in exchange for accepting a $6 million dub option for 2001. Gwynn can automatically trig­ger the option with 502 plate appearances this year, the same number needed to quali­fy for the batting title. 
Gwynn would receive a $2 million buyout in the unlikely event the Padres chose not to exercise the option on their most famous player. 
"I can imagine he will be here next year, but the reason we put that in there is because we wanted to address the issue of health and age," 
club presi­

another high probability that we would exercise it." 
Gwynn wou Id like to take care of business by getting the 502 plate appearances. But he'll have to do so knowing that due to his age and history of leg injuries, he'II be getting more days off as dictated by manager Bruce Bochy. 
And both Bochy and Gwynn know tlrn fans will be keeping track or the plate appear­ances. 
"The last thing I really want to know is contracts." Bochy said. "I talked to Tony about it and he agrees, we've got to do what's right for him and what's right for the balldub. If that's giving him a day or get­ting him off his legs late in a game, I'm going to do it. 
"Honestly, I would want him to get that [the 5021. It means we're going to be a better club if he gets at least that many." 
Bochv wishes he would have rested VGwynn more early last season. Gwynn promises not to gripe about playing time, but hopes that he won't have to sit much if he's playing well. 
Someone recently slipped a magazine into Gwynn's locker with the headline. "Turning 40." 
Happy 22nd Birthday, Sarah Dilling 

The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
Williams breaks bone in foot 
Associated Press 
TUCSON. Ariz. 

The Arizona Diamondbacks' bid to repeat as NL West cham­pions suffered a severe jolt Tuesday when All-Star third baseman 
M a t t \tVilliams broke a bone in his right foot in an exhibi­tion game against the Seattle 


Mariners. Williams 
T e a m spokesman Mike Swanson said Williams will be sidelined about six weeks, and foot spe­cialist Dr. Peter Mitchell said the injury would not require surgery. 
Williams fouled Frankie Rodriguez's pitch off the foot in the second inning, but complet­ed his at bat, lining out to cen­ter. He was replaced by Lenny Harris in the top of the third inning. 
"Obviously. I'm disappoint­

ed," Williams said. "I was real­ly looking forward to beginning the season and playing on opening day. There are some things, especially in this game. that you can't control." 
The Diamondbacks have plenty of talent to sucr.eed without him, Williams said. 
"Fortunately, we have a lot of great players on this team. and our team will be just fine and play well," he said, "and I look forward to getting back as soon as possible." 
Williams was taken to a hos­pital for X-rays, which showed his second metatarsal was bro­ken. He left for Phoenix, where he met with Mitchell. 
"It's a non-displaced fracture of the second metatarsal whkh won't require surgery," Mitchell said. 
ln 1995, a break in the same bone sidelined Williams for 68 games with the San Francisco Giants. On June 3 of that year, Williams fouled a ball off his right foot on a pitch from Philadelphia's Paul Quantrill. He underwent surgery to have pins inserted in the foot. At the time of that injury. Williams was hitting .381. 
"It's a tremendous loss," teammate Greg Colbrunn said. "He's the kev hitter in our line­up and defensively. But the realization is he's not going to be around here for however long they say. You can't sit around and cry about it. You have to move on and do other things to help make up for it." 
The injury came in the Diamondbacks' final game before breaking their spring training camp and moving back to Phoenix. It made for a solemn departure for the play­ers. 
"That's everybody's fear. for something like that to happen the last week of spring train­ing," reliever Dan Plesac said. "When it happens during the season, somehow it's easier to swallow. For it to happen down here when the games don't mean anything, it stinks." 
v\Tilliams is the team's acknowledged leader in the clubhouse. 
"His presence and leadership are just as important as his ability," reliever Darren Holmes said. 


INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 
Wh is TIAA-CREF the 
#1 c oice nationwide?* 
The TIAA-CREF 
Advantage. 


Year in and year out, employees at education and research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. And for good reasons: 
• 
Easy diversification among a range of expertly managed funds 


• 
Solid performance and exceptional personal service 

• 
Strong commitment to low expenses Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options 


With an excellent record of accomplishment for more than 80 years, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF. 
Proven Performance  
Low Expenses  
Highly Rated  
Quality Service  
Trusted Name  


1 800 842-2776 
www.tiaa-cref.org 
· · ~ r997 DdiMdc ribution &~Rarillt}S TIM..CREF -voted number one in pa,tici­
•~:~~!~:~~~ =JJ!~f~!~;~:~:_~dl:Cn~t;i~c:;~:i:,~~~~:~~~:~~11~~TI~J~'::l;J=:,:';::==~ Ser,,,ces, Inc. d,ruibutl!'S the vanabl~ component 1 . ~ annuities, mutt,_,,1 products are not FDIC insuNd, may lose Qlue and are not bank guafanlftd. and innuitie. TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB pr~~-ru -~ • , 1 st1 d-~ lnvesdexpens-can l 800B42•2l76 ext.5509 fortheprospectuses.Readthemca,efully~fo,eyou
For more comple!e ,nfo,mat,on on our secunt,es pr........._..,, ,nc u ,ng c,,.,ges an invest or send mQnl!y. C 2000 TIM..CREF 1/00. 


Wednesday, March 29, 2000 page 21
The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Chris Burke 



' j
Froin Life Goes On 
. l 

.' I 
Ii 
\ 
page 22 
i\ ' 
NHL 
Nuggets, Avalanche difficult to sell 
' " 
) Associated Press 
\ 
\ 
DENVER 

No one could blame the Denver Nuggets and the Colorado Avalanche for feel­
,, ing unloved. Ascent Entertainment Group wanted to sell the teams but couldn't. Liberty Media Corp. didn't want to buv them but did. Novv thP teams 
ple," he said. "Whatever it is. I'm sure it's going to make a lot of sense for them." 
\Val-Mart heiress Nancy Laurie and her husband, Bill. offered Ascent $400 million for the teams and the arena last vear, but Ascent managers backed out when their stockholders said the price was too low. 
Denver billion-

are being "We intend aire Donald shopped around Sturm then 
to sell them offered $461 mil-
again. 
Liberty nailed [the teams] as lion. but that deal down the pur­quickly as we can fell apart when chase of' Ascent Sturm and the
find a good buyer city couldn't
on Monday, tak­ing the teams for them.,, agree on guaran­and the arena in tees to keep the teams in Denver
order to get Vivian Carr 
what it really for at least 25 
, Liberty spokeswoman
wanted. Ascents video program­ming and other operations. 
"We intend to sell them [the teams) as quickly as we can find a good buyer for them," Liberty spokeswoman Vivian Carr said Tuesday. 
Carr wouldn't comment on potential buyers but said she expects the price to be in the range of' previous offers, $400 million to $460 million. 
Mario Cibelli. an analyst with New York-based Hobotti and Co .. predicted Liberty will be better at sell­ing the teams than Ascent was. Ascent negotiated two deals last year to sell the dubs and the $180 million Pepsi Center. but both crum­bled only months apart. 
With Libertv. "I think vou're dealing ,~ith stronger hands and a more sophisti­cated buyer and seller of assets," Cibelli said Tuesday. 
lie wouldn't speculate on the price. "They're pnitty smart peo­
vears. 
· The city has the 

equivalent of veto power over the sale because of the financial breaks it gave Ascent. 
. Liberty, a Denver-based communications company with a global reach, has been interested in Ascent for months but made it clear it wanted onlv Ascent's pay­per-view se~vice for hotels, called On Command. and its other non-sports assets. 
Liberty tried to buy Ascent last vear but insisted Ascent sell ·the teams first. When Ascent couldn't close its deal with Sturm, Liberty backed out. 
Liberty launched a second bid for Ascent in r'ebruary. announcing the same day that it would sell the teams after the takeover. 
The shuffling at the top hasn't affected the play in the arena, the teams said, and Liberty has said it will keep the teams' coaches and executives in place. 
The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
TENNIS 

Venus Williams considers retiring 
Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE. Fla. For Venus Williams. 19 could be retirement age. 
\Villiams. who has yet to play a match this year. might give up tennis to focus on her edu­cation and investments. her father said Tuesday. 
"She's considering that very seriouslv," Hichard Williams said. "On of scale of 10, I'd say she's a 7 or a 7 1/2 [to retire]." 
\Villiams said he advised his daughter to take at least the rest of this year off. She has been sidelined since N"ovember. citing tendinitis in both wrists. 
"She has been playing a long time now. and she needs time off to rest," Richard Williams said. "She needs to get more . education. 
"She has enough money now for sure. She has some unbe• lievable investments paying off 

"She has been playing a long time now, and she needs time offto rest. She needs to get more education. " 
Richard Williams Venus' father 
very well. She's in a great position right now." 
Venus, who finished last vear ranked No. 3, has career earnings of nearly $4.6 mil­lion. That doesn't include her lucrative endorsements. 
"If Venus retired from ten­nis, she'd be making a state­ment," her father said. "That's why it's time to walk away. I've seen too many black ath­letes come out of the ghetto and earn all that money. and four or five years later they're broke and no one cares who they once were." 
Venus' 18-vear-old sister, Serena, is th·e reigning U.S. Open champion. She might retire in three years when her endorsement deal with Puma expires. her father said. 
''Because of the planning we've done with these two girls, they don't need tennis any longer," he said. "\Nhen they're 30 years old, they'll have 10 or 12 businflsses. The things they'll be doing when they're out of tennis will sur­pass tennis so much." 
Venus. reached at her home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla.. declined to be interviewed. Her next scheduled tourna­ment begins May l in Hamburg, Germany. 
The sisters' nwrcurial father acknowledged that his attitude regarding their retirement might seem surprising. lie taught them the game and has long touted them as future No. 1 players who will dominate the women's tour. 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Davis, Pyatt suspended after arrest 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
Kentucky football players Garry Davis and Brad Pyatt have been suspended from the team following their arrests after police broke up a late­night party at Davis' house. coach Hal Mumme said Tuesday. 
Davis, 22. a junior wide receiver. was charged with disorderly conduct and allow­ing nine minors to possess alcohol. Police halted the party early Saturday morning at his home near campus. 

Pyatt, 19, a freshman wide receiver. was charged with criminal mischief. Officers said he damaged a police car. 
The suspensions will remain in effect until their legal issues are resolved, Mumme said. 
Davis and Pyatt wouldn't be required to forfeit their schol­arships under the university's student-athlete alcohol policy because no DUI charge was involved, a statement from the university said. 
But an athlete charged with public intoxication or under­age consumption would be put on probation and be required to attend counseling. 
The statement said Mumme would have no further com­ment on the matter. 
Davis played in l O games last season, catching 26 pass­es for 312 yards and one touchdown. 
The arrests came less than two weeks after junior corner­back Jeremy Bowie was arrested in Lexington on drunken driving charges. Bowie also has been suspend­ed from the team. 
Spring practice begins Wednesday. 
Got Sports? Call 1-4543. 

April 3, 2000 Joyce Center 

5:00 p.m. Gym 2 
· ed 

. background requtr . For Men: NO cheerlead1;;6 4/7 4/1O, 4/11 Clinics: 4/4,_ 4/5, 1s' Clo;ed to Public Tryouts: April 13 & ·114 Open to AU 6 p.m.
Tryout Apr1Leprechaun 
I I 
'· 










6:00 -8:00 pm 
in the LaF ortune Ballroom 


BENEFITS GO TO THE SOUTH BEND CENTER FOR TH.E HOMELESS 
COMPETITION BE EEN DO S D SEXES 
\ 



For more information and entry call Charles at 256-5027 
page 24 
NHL 
Rangers fire general manager and coach 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK 

With only four games left and the playoffs out of reach for the third straight season, the New York Rangers deaned house Tuesday. firing general manag­er Neil Smith and coach John Muckier. 
Smith. in his 11th vear as GM and president, was· in charge when the Hangers won the 1994 Stanley Cup -ending a 54-year drough.t. But he has not come close to matching that success. 
The Rangers, who have the NHL's largest payroll at $61 million. are five points behind Buffalo in the race for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. New York (29-38-11-:1) has lost five straight games and is 1-8-1 in its last 1Ogames. 
"Once you make a decision like this, the sooner the better " Madison Square Garden pres·i­dent Dave Checketts said. "\.Ve made the decision last night. I didn't see any reason to wait." 
Muckier was in his second full season as New York's coach after getting the job on Feb. 19. 1998. He replaced the fired Colin Campbell, now the NHL's disciplinarian. 
Assistant John Tortorella will coach the team through the final four games. Checketts said a GM will bf' hired and he will pick the next coach. 
A source dose to the team said Wayne Gretzky will be involved in helping select a new coach and genPral manager. but Checketts would not com­ment on possible successors. 
"He's a former Hanger and one of the great all-time play­ers," Checketts said of Gretzky, whose last three NHL seasons were spent in New York. "I don't expect him to be a part of that process." 
The final blows for Muckier and Smith were home-and­home embarrassments on Sunday and Monday in which the Rangers were beaten 8-2 and 6-0 by Detroit. 
Madison Square Gardtm fans booed the players and shouted for \1uckler's dismissal. They got their wish a day later. 
"It's going to be a tremen­dous amount of work, and it's going to require new leader­ship," Checketts said of the rebuilding process. "There 
should be more scoring, more defense, more pride in the Hanger jersey. 
"I \.Vant to dd what I have to to make it work for the fans. They deserve so much more." 
If the Rangers fa.ii to qualify for the postseason, it will be the first time since 1963-66 they have missed the playoffs in three consecutive vears. 
"At best it was disappointing, at worst embarrassing," Checketts said. 
New York'.s loss to Detroit on Monday also ensured the Hangers' third straight home­losing record. That hasn't hap­pened since 1957-58 through 1959-60. 
"At times things don't work out as planned and this is one of those times," Checketts said. "In the best interests of the franchise and our fans, it has become clear that we have to go in a different direction." 
As coach of Edmonton and Buffalo. Muckier never missed the playoffs in six seasons. lie was 70-91-24, plus three regu­lation ties, in 185 games with the Rangers. 
Muckier coached Edmonton to the Stanley Cup title in 1990 and the conference finals the following year. He served as Buffalo's general manager and coach for two seasons, before relinquishing the coaching job in 1995. 
After a seven-game winning streak turned the Hangers' for­tunes around. the club is 6-15­4 since February's All-Star weekend. 
"These decisions are made about results," Checketts said. "Our record since the All-Star break has clearly brought this al~ t,~> a head. Losing creates this. 

The Hangers' last playoff appearance in 1997 lasted until the conference finals when the club was eliminated in rive games. Those were Mark Messier's last games with New York before he left for Vancouver as a free agent. 
Acquisitions such as Theo Fleury.· Slyvain Lefebvre, Stephane Quintal and Tim Taylor, and the re-signing of captain Brian Leetch to a big contract failed to pay off. 
'Tm not taking myself out of responsibility for what hap­pened," Checketts said. "None of the free agents has per­formed the way we thought they would." 

CASTING & ANGLING 
CLINIC Three Sessions 6:00-7: 15 PM Open to ND Students & Employees $8.00 Class Fee 
CLASS DATES 
APRIL 4 
APRIL 11 
A.rmt 18 


Class~s Held in the Joyce Center & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL 

Students to display skills for NBA 
lottery pick, there's no need to
Associated Press 

go to college." NBA stars like Kevin GarnettBOSTON 
and Tracy McGrady. who both
Neil Fingleton is 7 feet, 6 

skipped high school. show theinches tall but has been play­leap can be successful. Griffin.
ing serious basketball for just 

t~ough, knows there's a hugethree years and could improve 
d1fferenct1 between being
with four years of' college. For 

dominant in high school and
others in the McDonald's All decent in the pros.

American High School game. 
the NBA will come sooner. 
Maybe next sea­son. Darius Miles has committed to SL 
John's. Eddie Griffin says he's going to Seton Hall. Others plan 
to go to top college programs Michigan State, Duke,-Indiana,
North Carolina. Connecticut. The NBA. though. is the ulti­mate goal for those who will dis­play their talents for scouts and 
Wednesday night's game at 

pound power forward whose
the FleetCenter. 

high school career ended pre­
"My No. 1 priority is St. 

m a tu rely when he was
John's. The NBA. if it's there, 

bounced from school after a
it's there," Miles, a 6-foot-8 

cafeteria altercation with a
guard from East St.· Louis. Ill., 

teammate. He's studying at
said Tuesday. "That's what 

home now. His teammate, also
people are in college for, real­

6-9. also was thrown out.
ly. They're playing for one of 

Griffin. who rarely shows
those lottery picks. lf I get a 

"It was a tough decision [to
"M fi t . h .

Y zrs WlS lS to choose college] 
play pro ball because the NBA was always in the
sonzewhere. That's 

back of my
what /'rn working 

mind," said
fi 

Griffin, who
or. I'm working 

played at Roman
hardfor it. 

Catholic High
Plan B? 

School in I don't know yet. Philadelphia. "I 
went to one of the
/haven't thought 

Sixers' games
h 

t at far yet... and I got to sit on the floor and I got to see how big
Neil Fingleton 

they were.
high school player 

"I know I've got to get a lot big­ger. If not, I'm 
not going to be able to play."
fans in Griffin is a 6-foot-9, 205­

emotion on the court, admits it was a mistake but says the incident was blown out of pro­portion. It may ~nd up being just a slight detour on the way to a lucrative NBA career. 
"'It's a big lure because it's a lot of money and kids mv age, that's what they want." he said. "I do want the monev but I just want to be rcaa'v so when I get there I can make as much as I can." 
Fingleton is much different than most high school players. He grew up in England. His favorite sport was soccer. But he came to Holv Name in Worcester, Mass.. ·after work­ing with Tony Hanson. a for­mer Connecticut basketball player who moved to England. 
lie 's not as athletic as the other players in \\lednesday's game. Bunning the court· is not his strength. His height, though. and room for improvement intrigue North Carolina, where he'll go next fall. 
"My first wish is to play pro ball somewhere," he said. ''That's what I'm working for. I'm working hard for it. Plan B? I don't know. I haven't th1)ught that far yet." 
Boston Celtics general man­ager Chris Wallace, a long­time observer of high school basketball, thinks North Carolina is a good placP. f'or Fingleton. 

·, 
Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
WOMEN'S NCAA FINAL FOUR NCAA BASKETBALL 
learns head home for final games 
people behind us thinking we Tennessee coach Pat
• Connecticut, 
could. too. We appreciate that Summitt is in the Final FourPenn State's support. Philly, here we for the 12th time and is seek­coaches return to come." ing hP-r seventh title. Stringer 
Penn State (;W-4) will arrivP­had Final Four teams at
hometown 
full of confidence after a domi­Cheyney and Iowa beforePhiladelphia with nating 8(>-65 victorv over working her magic again at Louisiana Tech in the Midwest Hutgers, a school she promised
hope for a 
Hcgional final. The Ladv Lions to make the "Jewel of the
championship title will need that ronfiden·ce and East" when she was hired in morn bPcause tlrny face No. 1-Julv 1995. ra.n ked Conrwcticut I34-1) in "She's a phenomenal
Associated Press 
thP national semifinals on woman." Hutgers' Linda Miles Friday night. said. "She's ,i. coach who gets
Nothing lik0 going back 
Connecticut has over-you to buy into a philosophy of
honw to trv to \,vin a national 
whelmed one opponent after defense."
championsl1ip. 
anothPr with its depth and tal­Hutgers (26-7). the West
Connl'rticut, PPnn State. 
Pnt, which includes first-team Hegional champion, will show
TP n rw s s <' 0 an d Hu tgers w iII 
All-Americans up in
assemblP in Philadelphia for 
Shea Halph and PhiladP-lphia
th c women's NC:\A tourn,t­"We knew it was in Philly 
Svetlana with a pesky
ment Final Four. and there's a 
and we said we were
Abrosimova. And match up
strong Philly flavor running 
though LSU going back there. We had zone. which
throughout the group, 
staved with the has put the
Connecticut coar,h Geno a lot ofpeople behind us
II uskies for much clamps on
Auricmma and Penn State's thinking we could, too.
of the game its last three
Hene Portland both grew up in 
b e f o r e J,Ve appreciate the opponents,
Philadelphia. Vivian Stringer 
Connecticut pre­The Scarlet
of Hutgcrs once coaehed at support. Philly, 
vailed 86-71 in Knights gave
Cheynny State. which is just here we come."
the East up 39 points
outsidE~ tlrn city. 
Hegional, Tigers and then 45
It will be horrrncorning from 
coach Suf) before beat­
Andrea Garner
somr players as well, Penn 
Gunter saw ing Georgia
StatP's Andrea Garner and Penn State player
enough to 59-51 toHashana Barnes. Hutgers' 
declare, "I would earn the
Shawnetta StP-wart and 
say they would have to be the school's first Final Four trip.
TennesseP's Kristen Clnmcnt 
prohibitive favorite." Tennessee (32-3) hopes it 
arc Philly products. Look for 
Connecticut and Penn State will have All-American Tamika
those personal cheering sec­
have met once before this sea­Catchings at full strength to
tions to be a little larger and 
son, the Huskies winning 87-crack that zone. Catchings
louder than usual. 
74 on Dec. 5. sprained her right ankle in the
"\tVe've bP-en talking about it 
The Tennessee-Rutgers Lady Vols· 5 7-44 Midwest 
sin c<' th<' be g in n in g o f th<' 
game sends the coach who has Regional victorv over Texas ynar. since last year," Garner more Final Four appearances Tech. and though she returned
said. "We knew it was in Phillv 
and national championships to finish with 16 rebounds andand we said we were going 
against the first coach to take six assists, sprains have a way
back there. W<' had a lot of 
three schools to the Final Four. of lingering. 
Fresno State looks into meal scandal 
vplifti~ Mv~ic.-., 
~-,~iiiiiilllllllll -_ 
' 

jvbife,~'t Saturday, Apt1: 
Associated Press 

FRESNO. Cali[ 
Fresno State is investigating reports that several members of the basketball team received free meals from a local restaurant even after the owner was warned such handouts could violate college athletic rules. 
Ted Kunishige, owner of Tomodachi Japanese Hestaurant and a basketball booster regularly seen at Selland Arena games. admit­ted to The Fresno Bee last week he had given away "sev­eral thousand dollars" worth of free food to the players during the past seven years. 
Seniors Larry Abney and Terrance Roberson. who helped Fresno State reach the NCAA tournament for the first time in 16 years this sea­son, have confirmed they both ate free meals at Kunishige's restaurant during their col­lege careers, the newspaper reported. 
''I'd go in there and pull my money out to pay, and some­times he'd tell me to put it away, and sometimes I paid," Abney said. 
Athletic director Al Bohl told The Associated Press on Tuesday that Benjamin Quillian, the university's vice president for administration, is conducting a review with the assistance of outside 
in one, with: : 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

Kare Notre
•
•
•
•
•
• 

: Archbis 
•
•
•
•
•
• 
counsel. 
"We're cooperating fully 
with the NCAA and will have 
no further comments until the 
review is completed," he said. 
Under NCAA rulP-s. coaches are permitted to accept extra benefits such as free mP-als, but student-athletes are not allowed to receive any extra benefits unless they are authorized through a special arrangement. Agency spokes­woman Jane Jankowski on Tuesday said the "basic rule of thumb" is that provisions such as meals arc not viola­tions "if it can be demonstrat­ed that the same benefit is available to other students.", 
Jankowski said she could not confirm whether there was an investigation outside the university's internal probe. She also declined to discuss possible penalties in such cases or the agency's history of disciplining schools found to be in violation of meal policies. saying it would only be speculation. 
Bohl told The Bee that the university took steps to stop possible NCAA violations as early as 1997, sending a let­ter to Kunishige. In January 1998. Bohl's department sent a letter to coach Jerry Tarkanian inquiring about Kunishige's repeated pres­ence in seats allocated to Tarkanian as part of his con­tract. The Bee reported. 



led by: Fr. Jim Lies, CSC Fr. Bill Wack, CSC 
r& the _, Choir 
·­


South Dining Hall • 10:00 am -5:30 p~ · Join v~ for-AL-L-or-par+ of the, da~! 

~ --·-·--------------------. ------------------· ------.
• ----, ------..... -------·--... ---.... ---".,.,. ... -.. -__....:---------~ ... -.. ----• -• ,.. + ... -­


page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Duany makes the most of opportunities 

Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis. 
When he was 4 years old. Duany Duany and his family left the tropical. dangerous climes of Sudan. Thirteen years later. Duany left Bloomington, Ind., for Madison and an unexpected college basketball career. 
When Wisconsin's season ends this weekend, Duany will be back home in Indiana, trying to help the Badgers win an improbable national champi-Duany onship. 

Some time soon, he may return to his homeland and complete the cycle by helping in some ,vay to bring about a much more important victory. 
"I think about Sudan a lot," said Duany, his voice betraying a slight Indiana twang. "I worry about the children who don't get the chances I got. It's important for me to make the most of my opportu­nities and then try to make a difference." 
Wal Duany -·Sudan's former prime minister -his wife Julia. and their family left Sudan shortlv before a civil war \ broke out in 1983:one that continues to \, this day. Nearly 2 million people have
I 
\ 
l 
died and another 4 million have been
I 
r \ 
uprooted in the fight for autonomy in southern Sudan. 
Thev lived in London for two vears before \Val Duanv moved to finiih his postgraduate s·tudies _at Indiana University. Duany played on a Bloomington North High School team that at times featured as many as nine players who were the sons of non­American professors at the university. 
Duany dor.sn't remember much about 
\ 
his native land, but he can't forget where he comes from. Last month. his father was appointed chairman of the South Sudan Liberation Movement. 
Wal Duany has spent several months in Sudan recently, trying to unify the vari­ous rebellions against Sudan's govern­ment, which the United States has accused of supporting terrorism. bomb­
ing civilians and committing civil rights 
abuses. 

Duanv thinks about his father. but he 
also w<;rries about the rest of his family. 
He has two sisters and a brother who 
played Division I basketball this season, 
something that might be unprecedented. 
His brother Kueth was a redshirt 
freshman at Syracuse, and his sister 
Nok played for Georgetown as a fresh­
man this year. His sister Nyagon is a senior forward at Bradley. ·what's more. Duanv's brother Bil is· a 6-foot-4 freshman at.Bloomington North. 
"I like to keep track of how everybody is doing." said Duany, who also has two cousins playing in Massachusetts. "\,Ve stay pretty close." 
Duany Duany, who has a double name because of a Sudanese tradition for the first-born son, has seen his playing time fluctuate wildlv this season after three fairly disappointing seasons and a red­shirt vear. 
In November. he was stapled to the bench. In Januarv. he started several ganrns and led the·team in scoring three times. Now he's back on the bench. playing an integral ·supporting role. 
He's primarily a streaky outside shooter and a solid defender. which doesn't do much to distinguish him from manv others on the roster. But Doc, as his t~ammates call him, is happy being another cog in coach Dick Bennett's sys­tem. 
"He has shown leadership and really been a team player this sea.son," 
Peppers leads Tar Heels to Final Four 
I iI.  Associated Press  
CHAPEL HILL. N.C. With a def~P front court com­ing into the season. Bill Guthridg<' wasn't counting on help from a 270-pound fresh­man defensive end  

didn't expect Peppers to take him up on his offer after getting six sacks and 
50 tackles as a freshman. 

He's glad Peppers did. though. as 6-11 Brian Bersticker broke his foot early in the season and 
Lang has been hampf\red 
with a catchy 
by illness. shin splints and now a bum ankle.
name. Now. it's hard to "Julius has br:en a god­send for us," Guth ridge
sav where the Tar ·said. "\Vhen basketball
Heels would be season is over. we're·
without Julius going to loan him to the
Peppers. Certainly football team."
not in the NCAA Senior point guard Ed
tournament's Final 
Bennett said. "[Duany] has found a niche on this team, I think, and it's a good place for him to finish out his career with us." 
The most memorable game of Duany's season so far came in one of Wisconsin's early-season losses to bigger, faster Big Ten teams. When the Badgers fell 71-67 to Indiana in Bloomington on Jan. 5, Duany was given a start by Bennett. and he led the team with 17 points while playing in front of family and friends. 
Whatever happens this weekend, Duany will treasure his unexpected trip to college basketball's center stage. But he also won't forget his father's work and his family's support. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 

HOMES FOR RENT 
2000-2001 SCHOOL YEAR 


-Domus Properties has 3,4,5, and 8 bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 
! 
. 
Four. Peppers 
The 6-foot-8 Peppers is 22-for-29 from the field over his last seven games as the top substitute for North Carolina. including a 30-minute 
stint in a 5<J-55 virtorv over Tulsa in the South Hegiona.l title game after Kris Lang went down with a sprained right ankle. The hulking Peppers, who 
>I wears a size 17 shoe and has 
6.1 percent body fat, usually would be halfway through spring football. but coultl only smile Tuesday at the thought of not knocking heads with offen­sive linemen. 
"I miss it a little bit, but I'm having fun right now," said Peppers, who should play a key role against a deep Florida team Saturday night in the national semifinals. "If we keep winning I'll get back when I get back." 
Guthridge helped the football team recruit Peppers with the promise that he could walk on in basketball. The vPteran coach 
Cota actually needled Guthridge about putting Peppers on the team. 
"Ed Cota came to me several times this summer and said, 'Julius can really play and we need him to come out for the team."' Guthridge said. "1 really didn't know what to expect, but was pleasantly surprised early on. He has learned and gotten better and better." 
Practice sure changed when Peppers came on board Dec. 1. 
''When Julius came out to practice people had to be aware," said Jason Capel, who played against Peppers many times while growing up in the state. "He came out there block­ing shots, dunking and the back­board would be shaking for the next couple of possessions down the floor. 
"Everybody took notice of that. \-Ve all knew how good he was. We knew once he got his uni­form he was going to be a big part of this team." 
'1 
Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
NIT CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Wake Forest tops rival NC State 
Associated Press 
NE\V YOHK 

Wake Forest won bragging rights in its rivalry with North Carolina State and earned a spot in the final of the National Invitation Tournament. 
Darius Songai la scored 18 points, including six in over­time. as \Yake Forest beat Atlantic Const Conference rival 
N.C. State 62-59 in the semifi­nals of the NIT on Tuesday night. 
"This was an old-l'ashioned ACC. Tobacco Hoad type of game,'' Demon Df'acons coach DavP Odom said. "That's what happens when two evenly matclwd teams play." 
\Vakr Forest (21-14) will play Notre Dam<' (22-141 in Thursday night's final. The Fighting Irish beat Penn Sta~e 73-52 in Tm~sday·s other s8mif1­nal. 
"I think the game was what everyone expected," \Volfpack coach Herb Sendek said. "It was a hard-fought, very physical game. Guys on both teams played with a lot of determina­tion." 
Songaila made a layup off a pass from Hobert ()'Kelley with 58 seconds left to give Wake Forest a 58-56 lead in overtime. Songaila was fouled by Kenny Inge on the Demon Dear.ons' next possession with 35.9 left and made both foul shots for a 60-56 lead. 
N.C. State's Tim \,Velis responded with a 3-pointer with 22 seconds left to bring the Wolfpack within 60-59. 
Songaila was fouled by Anthony Grundy with 13.7 sec­onds and made both free throws to seal it. 
"It feels great to be in that sit­uation where you're making key 
shots at the end of the game," .Songaila said. "The most impor­tant thing for me was the confi­dence my teammates showed in giving me the ball when it 
counted." 
Josh Howard had 14 points 
and Rafael Vidaurreta added 10 
points and eight rebounds for 
Wake Forest. making its first 
NIT final appearance. 
"\,Ve had guys that really stepped up for us," O'Kelley said. "This win is a great confi­denr.e booster for us, and we're looking forward to winning the championship." 
Inge, Damon Thornton and Justin Gainey each had 10 points for N.C. State (20-13). whir:h shot just 29.5 perr.ent from the field on 18-of-61 shooting. 
The Demon Deacons outre­
bounded the \Volfpack 46-31. 
but also made 23 turnovers to 
11 for the \Volfpar.k. 

THE TASTY BACON 
CHEDDAR  WHOPPER:  
T H I N K  O F  I T  A S  A  W H O PP ER®  T H A T ' S  
DRESSED  UP  WITH  SOMEPLACE  TO  GO.  


THE WHOPPER' WITH A NEW TWIST FOR A LIMITED TIME. 
If you're already a fan of "America's Favorite Burger,"* why not try it a whole new way? 
With crispy bacon and melted cheddar cheese. it's sure to put a smile on your face. 
So head to a BURGER KING"' restaurant soon and make sure to bring your appetite. 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
'---------------------------·-------·---
Pelphrey finally gets to Final Four 
. After two near misses, Florida assistant coach John Pelphrey is going to the Final Four at last 
Associated Press 

GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
The replay tells him oth­erwise, but John Pelphrey can still feel the leather. He thought he had both hands on the basketball. 
That's how close it was, and that's how close Pelphrey was to being the hero in what many consid­er the greatest college basketball game ever played. 
He's an assistant coach for Florida now, and Pelphrey, the former all­Southeastern Conference forward at Kentucky, has finally made it to the Final Four. Eight seasons ago, a trip was 
snatched 

"He came so close. 
obviously infrom his 

hands by Now, all ofthe your favor. And not only
Ouke and sudden, he·s in this 
did the game
Christian 

situation. For him to 
end and your
Laettner's 

be able to go to the hopes for a
miracle shot 
national

at the Final Four right now 
championship
buzzer. 

... to me, that's what 
end, but so
The memo-

brings a smile to my did your
ries still 
career. It was

linger. face.·· 
very, very
"It's very, 
tough."
very tough 

Billy Donovan Pelphrey got
for athletes when your Florida head coach a job coaching 
career ends that way." Pelphrey said Tuesday. 
His career ended on a play that ranks up there with The Catch and the Immaculate Rer.eption in the collective memory of American sports fans. 
Or, from Pelphrey's end of the action, it might draw comparisons to Bill Buckner's bobble or Jackie Smith's dropped touchdown catr.h in the Super Bowl. 
There Wf~re 2.1 seconds remaining in overtime of the 1992 East regional final. Kentuckv's Sean Woods hit a rum1er in the lane to put the \Vildcats up by one. 
After a timeout, Duke's Grant Hill released the ball from the o'pposite baseline. Laettncr ran up l'rom the baseline and snuggled himself near Pelphrey at the free throw line. The replay shows the ball just missing Pelphrey's outstretched hands. A full five inr.hes taller than Pelphrey, Laettner collected the pass, then turned around and made the shot, a 16­foot jumper. 
"It was so real to me." Pelphrey said, recalling the sensation of the ball hitting his hands, one that turned out not to be reaL 
Duke won 104-103. Pelphrey and the rest of that brokenhearted team dropped to the floor in 
shock. Their season ended one win, one point and one miraculous play away from a chance at their first and only Final Four. 
It was the last chance at redemption for Pelphrey 
and the other seniors  on  
that team.  
They  had  come  to  

Kentucky in 1987. before 
NCAA sinctions tarnished 
both the reputation and 
hopes of one of the coun­try's most storied pro­grams. They had been part of the only team to post a losing record since the days before Adolph Hupp. 
Somehow. they had scratched their way back to respectability, then excellence, and were about to formally shed the label as being "the guys who were at Kentucky when Kentucky was bad," as Pelphrey puts it. 
"\Ve had put all our eggs in one basket and losing wasn't in the equation," he said. "To have it end so abruptly, and with things so 
at Oklahoma State for Eddie Sutton. the coach who recruited him to Kentucky in the late 1980s. Then, another twist of fate: Billy Donovan lured Pelphrey to Marshall in 1994, and Pelphrey missed Oklahoma State's trip to the Final four a year later. 
"He came so close," Donovan said. "Now, all of the sudden, he's in this sit­uation. For him to be able to go to the Final Four right now ... to me, that's what brings a smile to my face." 
Pelphrey's. too. 
I Ie has two kids now and a bright future. Some say the 31-year-old assistan t could be a head coach as soon as next season. 
"He's verv intense," senior Kenyan \Veaks said. "lie gives you great detail. lie really breaks down what other teams like to do. He knows the game." 
Several seasons away from the heartbreak have added perspective. Pelphrey doesn't think anything will ever replace the void of not going to the Final Four as a player. 
"But I can walk in my kids' rooms at night and they don't care one way or another whether that shot went in or out," he said. "The way things turned out. I can't say my life would be any better right now had that shot not gone down." 



page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 29, 2000 

8-ball 
continued from page 32 

lead. the Irish gave the Nittany Lions every rhance possible for a comeback. PPnn State's play­ers rebounded several missed Irish baskets. and the Irish com­mitted four consecutive turnovers. Junior guard Joe Crispin hit two Penn State bas­kets to bring the Nittany Lions to within seven at 18-11. 
But Penn State didn't gain much at Notrr Danrn·s expt>nse. A trey by Irish frt>shman Jere Macura put the Irish back ahead by 10. Then Dillon s,.,,iped a steal. taking it tlw length of the tloor for a fast break layup. and the Irish were once more in con­trol. 
"Every time they made a run. we were able to countrr that run." Murphy said. 
The Nittany Lions kept looking to narrow the gap. Crispin nailed a three-pointer. First Team Ing Ten player Jarrett Stephens dunk0d the ball for two points. and teammate Titus Ivory scored three on a bucket and foul shot. 
Just as quickly as the Irish began to fade away. their lead dropping to four at 27-23 late in thP first half. they went on a 13­
J 
I point run. Everybody got into thf' act as Macura put back a Carroll miss. Graves dropped in four points and Carroll went for a wide-open layup. The sweetest play of the game came foll<nving a Nittany Lions turnover ·with 5.1 seconds to go in the first period. Notre Dame called timeout to plan its posses­sion. Thf' Irish threw a cross­court inbounds pass to Dillon. He lobbed it inside to Murphy. \\/ho muscled in two of his 18 points and nailed the free throw to go with the hoop. "We had a good run late in the 
l 
first half," Doherty said. "Jere Macura was pretty darn good on the offensive boards. and I think that was a big key for us to get that lead back to 15 at half­time." 
The two teams played another 20 minutes of ball, but that was 
__ mainly for show, as they decided the outcome in the first half. Penn State never got closer than 12 in the second stanza. The defensive intensity of the Irish forced the Nittany Lions into shooting just 33 percent from the field and committing 20 turnovers. "You·ve got to put the ball in the hole to sustain your defense," Penn State coach Jerry Dunn said. "\Vhon you couple tho turnovers and the poor shooting performance, it can be detrimental to your defense. We had some decent looks at the basket, and we pkked a bad time to shoot poor­ly." Carroll in particular was impressive defensively. He tal­lied four steals. intercepting Penn State passes with a verti­cal jump that seemed high enough to scale Mount Everest. lie also hit six of eight free throws down the stretch to cement the outcome. "I was impressed with our guys' intensity," Doherty said. "These kids. they want to win." The Irish are going for one more ,vin Thursday when they !'ace the \Vake Forest Deamon Deacons in the NIT cha~piw onship. · 
Game notes: 

.Notre 
Dame turned the ball over 23 times. 

. 
Graves broke the school's single-season three-point record, hitting his 81st of the year. 

. 
The Irish outrebounded the Nittany Lions 38-25. 




Kessler 
continued from page 32 
quiet as a mouse and the "Let's go Irish" chant echoed loud and clear at Madison Square Garden. 
"I thought the Penn State fans were great and l thought our fans were great," said first-year head coach Matt Doherty, whosfl Irish squad went wire to wire for the victory. "It was a good college basketball atmosphere." 
Notre Dame answered ev,~ry Penn State basket in the first 10 minutes of the second half and wouldn't let the feisty Nittany Lions back in the gamt:""!. 
Tuesday's win was a total team effort, as eight Irish play~ ers contributed with four or more poinl5. Doherty also got 23 points from his bench. 
"I think [the balance] was great," sophomore All-American Troy Murphy said. "Penn State was unable to focus on anybo_dy and with Jere [Macura] hitting those threes early, it opened up the inside. We have some grr~at shooters and we showed we can spread it out." 
Doherty was also pleased with his team's mental attitude prior to and during the game. 
"I was happy •vith the defen­sive intensity and that we were able to maintain it in the second half," Doherty said. "It's tough to play with a lead against a dan­gerous team like Penn State and they didn't allow them to get a string going in the second half. 
"I had to threaten them some with electric. shocks from the trainers," Doherty joked. "But thes<' kids want to win and I'm glad we have tho opportunity in tlw NIT to play for a rhampi­onship." 
So far Pverything is going right for the Irish in that quest. Thoy definitely have the motivation. 
"We are using this NIT to show people that we belonged in the NCAA Tournament." Murphy said. "We are doing that so far." 
They also seem to bo very comfortable at the Madison Square Garden. 

"I like playing here-," Murphy said. "This is our fifth game here and it's a nice placo to play." 
Now that the ingredient<-; are in place. Murphy and the Irish am in position to bring home the school's first-ever postseason title. 
"There are only a fev, teams that end their season with a win," sophomore David Graves said."If'we win, we will be one of them. So that will just be the icing on the cake. No one expected us to be here and it is a relief to prove them all wrong." 
ButDoherty doesn't know the meaning of relief. When he is on the sideline coaching. he tries his best to keep himsfllf out of that comfort zone. 
"Hight now I feel in control," Doherty said following the victo­ry. "But I never feel comfortable during the game. I'm always worried. I yanked Jimmy when he thre\\· the ball away t\,\'icc and didn't contest a short jumper. lie walked off the court with a smile on his face, but I wasn't in the mood to smile. I wasn't comfortable until thPrP vvere 30 seconds left and WP were up 20." 
Don't worry Matt. One morn victory and you·11 feel enough relief' and gratification lo last you through the offseason. 
1he vieu·s expressed in this column are those qfthe author and not necessarily those ofthe ()bsert•er. 
-
Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
Bookstore 
continued from page 32 
"There are a lot or good 
t1~ams out there." said Mikolyzk. 
"We've played against them 
before but who knows when 
you start playing outside -any­
thing can happen in Bookstore." 
Versatility, the surprise of the 
1999 tournament finds itself at 
the No. 3 spot, after making a 
Cinderella-like run to the finals 
last year. Four out of' five play­
rrs arr returning to the team: 
captain Chris Dillon, Joe Lillis. 
James Cochran and Jason 
Childress. Thcv lost a valuable 
player in Jo.hn Hiltz, who 
walked on to the Notre Dame 
varsity basketball team and is 
ineligible for the tournament, 
but gains some sharp shooting 
in newcomer Hoss I lanson. 
"John had a great tournament last year. but Hoss is a good player," said Dillon. "We lose some size but gain a littlP bit of' shooting touch." 
The addition of Hanson allows 
for a restrur.tured game plan 
that Versatility thinks will help 
them in the tournament. 
"Hiltz took over sr,oring for us last year -he was the guy tak­ing most of' our shots," said Dillon. "This year, we're not as on<'-dimensional. It opens up a lot of opportunity for us to spn~ad our offense around." 
V<' rsati lity knows what to expect from the top seeds if they meet in tlrn-tournament. Dillon's squad lost to the mcm­be rs of Keyplay.com in this year's intrrhall tournament and also fell to NDToday.r.om during Midnight Madness. 
"That's probably why we're ranked thret\ but when you get to the top teams you can really throw the rankings out the win­dow," said Dillon. "We're just 
going to go in and play hard." 
Bookstore Basketball's 1999 
Championship team, Malicious 
Prosecution dropped from its 
No. 3 ranking last year to the 
16th spot in this year's tourna­
ment. 
Captain JC Coury is the lone 
returner for the skilled team, 
but with four new talented play­
ers in Justin Crawford, Jason 
Sr.hauer, Mike Oesterle and 
Steve Orloski, Malicious 
Prosecution is ready to defend 
its title. 
"\Vn expected the ranking to 
come as it did," said Coury. 
"When you lose four guys you 
expect to see a drop. But our 
strength is shooting -anyone 
can shoot very well from any­
where on the court and we're 
comfortable playing together." 
In addition to the thousands 
of registered players in this 
year's tournaments, several 
varsity athletes will be plaving 
for ranked teams. · 
Sophomore football player Tony Fisher is making a repeat appearance on sixth-ranked Cor.oa Butter, while teammates Bobby Brown and Arnaz Battle will test their basketball skills on No. 10 Rampage. 
Eleventh-ranked Ilit Squad will benefit from the ball han­dling skills of Raki Nelson and Eric Chappel, while Tom Lopienski will suit up for No. 14 The Individuals. 
Varsity soccer standout Reggie McKnight's team. Like ·whoa, comes in at No. 15 in the tournament seedings. 
Sophomore Tony \Veaver is on the roster for No. 21 Manual Steering and Brad \Villiams and Jason Ching will step on the court for Scottie Who?, the twentv-scventh seeded team, while Mike Gandy will add size to No. 31 Campusmonster.com. 

1. 
2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 
10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 
Keyplay.com 
NDToday.com 
Versa•·· 
Majesti 
Franchi . .. 
~~?~· ..}:: 
Cocoa Butter ~;: IUD Strokers 
':.;.;·,.. 
Runners Rampage Hit Squad F-bombs Double Down The Individuals 
17. 18. 19. 
0. 1. 22. 

23~'1:: 
'29. 
30. 31. 32. 

The Torch Fast Eddie .f~iiac;difflittis ,w. De.. . e Guarantee :;~pq~li~trering Sexual Frustration V l){)gkey,.~~lls. >
~~~l~d1D11.YQit}
Moor •An 
;(•• 

Pie -us 
urious D .,., Shocker We've got your Wojo Campusmonster.com The Linebacker Lounge 
JOSE CUELLAR/fhe Observer 

There will be a Bookstore Basketball meeting for team captains Thursday at 5:30 p.m. in room IO I DeBartolo. 
LEWIS HALL REQUESTS THE PRESENCE OF THE FOLLOWING MEN AT THE (RUSH THIS FRIDAY! 
Date Date Dorm Date Date Dorm Date Date Dorm Date Date Dorm 
Bob Sullivan Alumni Joe Garther Keenan Justin Pogge Knott Rob Plumby Siegfried Brian Labine Alumni Joe Miller Keenan Mark Overman Knott Tim Noonan Siegfried Brian Stanley Alumni John Dougherty Keenan Matt McDonald Knott Alan Maginn Sorin Joe Media Alumni John Hinchman Keenan Mike Campbell Knott Dave Saracino Sorin John Schmiederer Alumni John Smigelsky Keenan Mike Harwood Knott Doug Connors Sorin Kevin Murphy Alumni Johnny Maas Keenan Pat Virtue Knott Kevin McCluskey Sorin Matt Steenberg Alumni Jon Gentine Keenan Tim Brick Knott Michael Campbell Sorin Paul Rose Alumni Kevin Hennessey Keenan Tony Mohir Knott Tim Brennan Sorin Tim O'Brien Alumni Luke Archibald Keenan Adam Niesen Morrissey Tony Xie Sorin Andy Haines Carroll Matt Baron Keenan Bobby Helmedaz Morrissey Aaron Crall St. Ed's Patrick Brennan Carroll Matt Beck Keenan Brett Gansen Morrissey Chris Kitalong St. Ed's Paul Rodriguez Carroll Mike Crowley Keenan Brian Juba Morrissey Chris Shipley St. Ed's Peter Richardson Carroll Mike Kassing Keenan Daniel Gonzalez Morrissey Dan Schmid St. Ed's Adam Turner Dillon Ned Popit Keenan Gabe Wahila Morrissey Dave Bishop St. Ed's Bill Panko Dillon Rob Kelly Keenan Jonathan Kosares Morrissey David Pickett St. Ed's Bobby Kennedy Dillon Scott Jarratt Keenan Kevin Crumb Morrissey Gally Santos St. Ed's Bnan Hench Dillon Scott Pijanawski Keenan Paul Riley Morrissey Henri Capin St. Ed's Chris Fredlake Dillon Steve Byrnes Keenan Troy Murphy Morrissey James McDonald St. Ed's Dan Cronin Dillon Brandon Lenz Keough Eric Hovan off-campus Kierman Moriarty St. Ed's Dan Kelly Dillon Brian O'Donoghue Keough Jason Harlacher off-campus Matt Banick St. Ed's Egan Kilbane Dillon Chris Prill Keough Keith Crosby off-campus Mike Bien St. Ed's Jack Hennigan Dillon Dante Simonetti Keough Rob Brown off-campus Nick Kimlinger St Ed's Joe Healy Dillon Jim Kennedy Keough Justin Gagnon off-campus Pat McElwee St. Ed's John O'Malley Dillon John Sarson Keough Charles Wenge off-campus Patrick Lyden St Ed's Jordan Linville Dillon Josh Bougoise Keough Jaime Raba off-campus Travis Kline St. Ed's Kevin Brandl Dillon lee Kollopoulos Keough Alex Gail off-campus Adam Weltler Stanford Matt Carroll Dillon Matt Fumagalie Keough Bill Caldwell off-campus Alex Brown Stanford Matt Fox Dillon Micah Murphy Keough Dan Kubarewicz off-campus Andy Maggio Stanford Matt Orenchuk Dillon Mickey Mason Keough J.D.Shea off-campus Dan Welch Stanford Matt Summey Dillon Mike Perrone Keough Manos, Kalitzakis off-campus Evan Oliver Stanford Paul Nolan Dillon Phil Slonkosky Keough Marty Luuo off-campus Jeffrey Schwaiger Stanford Phillip Madonia Dillon Reinhold Zeidler Keough Mike Nash off-campus John Fanning Stanford Tim Neuner Dillon Rocco Piacentino Keough Peter O'Donnell off-campus Jordan Raniszeski Stanford Tom Cambell Dillon Ryan Flannigan Keough Rory Draper off-campus Justin Dunn Stanford Tom Lynch Dillon Ryan Gormann Keough Fred Rockefort off-campus Keith Auderson Stanford Andy Wagemaker Fisher Tom McGinty Keough Andy Harms O'Neill Kurt Ubelhoer Stanford Ben Vancura Fisher Artour Wright Knott Brad Fritsche O'Neill Matt O'lare Stanford Fritz von Mering Fisher Brian Burrell Knott Dane Rodriguez O'Neill Mike Rerko Stanford Matt Clarke Fisher Brian Pawloski Knott Frank Helgesen O'Neill Peter Kenny Stanford Patrick Bowers Fisher Chris Myers Knott Garrett Zoeller O'Neill Stephen Gillespie Stanford Arnie Sumino Keenan Christian Suarez Knott John Hudson O'Neill Bernard Vallejos Zahm Blake Kirkman Keenan Craig Novosel-Johnson Knott John Morris O'Neill Bob Cenname Zahm Brent Moberg Keenan Dan Peate Knott Josh Kington O'Neill Chris Gerber Zahm Brian Parsons Keenan Dave McCaffrey Knott Andy Larson Siegfried J.R. Keller Zahm Chris Rupar Keenan Grant Kreizenback Knott Billy Taylor Siegfried John Osborne Zahm Cletus Willems Keenan Jeremy Ford Knott Brandon Zabrocki Siegfried Kevin Healy Zahm Dillon Mahoney Keenan Job Turner Knott Brian DeVirgillo Siegfried Michael Greenfield Zahm Ed Wasilewski Keenan John Cowen Knott Jason Farmer Siegfried Mike Meszaros Zahm Eric Oligino Keenan John Riordan Knott Joe Gleason Siegfried Sean Griffen Zahm 
Jack Cogan Keenan Justin Pogge Knott Marty Martin Siegfried Sean Harrigan Zahm Jason Colettis Keenan Mark Overman Knott Mike Walsh Siegfried Zach Gustafson Zahm 
WE'RE NOT PLAYERS... WE JUST CRUSH A LOT. 


page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
CLUB SPORTS 
Men's, Women's ultimate frisbee teams each finish 3-1 
Special to The Observer 
Ultimate 
Thr best of the midwest con­ve rgrd on Ste pan Fields f'lr one of the premier events of the season. as Notre Dame hosted the \VhitesmokP 
; Invitational. 
I' 

\ The women capped a 3-1 round robin performance on Saturday with a great come­back against Purdue. closing
I' 
)'. 
with the final four points and
' 
\' 
\ 
the victory. Carolyn Scully and Allison Hod rick starred for the Irish. Earlier in the day, the Irish had defeated Oberlin 9-2 and Indiana 8-3, while dropping a match to Illinois, 7-4. In Sunday's semi­finals. the Irish defeated Michigan 9-7. riding the han­dler to long connection of Erin Fleming and Lois Donovan. In the finals rematr.h. the Irish dropped a r,\ose game to Purdue. 10-8. Standouts for the team throughout the tour­nament included Kathleen Crotty, Monica Kerschner, Lara Pozorski and Jeana D'Agostino. 


In men's play. top seeds lived up to their hype as pool play unfolded on Saturday. Michigan rolled through three opponents. as did the Irish in their pool. Playing tight zone defense spearheaded by Cory Padesky. the Irish overr.ame a 12-10 deficit in the opening round to subdue a strong Dayton squad, 15 -10. The Irish also throttled Ohio State. 15 -9. in opening day play. The third pool was sprinkled with upsets as highly-ranked \Vinona State was shocked early by Iowa, which in turn was beaten by Indiana. Winona State recovered to earn the right to advance and handily won their opening round on Sunday. In the quar­ters Winona was in top form. defeating the Irish 13-7. despite stellar defense from Steve Hemkens and Paul Miller. 
Pistol 

Tes Salb brought glory to Notre Dame in the National Intercollegiate Pistol Championships in Atlanta this weekend. Despite r.ompeting with a fractured hand, Salb's stellar performance earned her first-team All-America honors in Air Pistol. Salb was among the last of the shooters 
BASEBALL 
Notre Dame cancels game due to rain 
Special to The Observer 
l ! The Notre Dame baseball 
team cancelled its game
l \ against Central Michigan University Tuesday, due to rainv and cold conditions.
l, The Irish will make up the game by adding a home game 
Thursday against Siena 

Heights University, at Er,k Stadium. The start time of that game (either 4:05 p.m. or 
5:05 p.m.) will be determined today. 
Notre Dame's home game versus \Visconsin-Milwaukee on today remains scheduled for a 5:05 p.m. start. 
If any student is interested in trying out for the varsity football team for the positions of kicker, punter or long snapper, call 
631-7475. 
to come off the range. With the added pressure of every­one watching her. the 40 shot air pistol individual champi­onship came down to her last shot. Salb lost the gold by the narrowest of margins. one point. yet still captured the sil­ver medal. and the support of the crowd for her gutsy per­formance. 
Later, competing in the 60 shot competition for both men and women, Salb again fin­ished in the top ten nationally, and recorded the highest score of all women in the event. 
Sailing 

High winds on Gull Lake did little to deter the Irish Sailing Club at the \Vestcrn Mkhigan Universty Spring Hegatta. Competing in a field of 13 schools, the Irish placed fifth in the event. Highlighting the event was the A boat's capture of first plar,e, with H.J. Wolney and Jack Gaither on board. J .P Givens and Sean Donovan crewed the Irish B boat. Top three fin is hes went to Michigan, WMU, and Purdue. 
Men's Volleyball 

Notre Dame did not fare as well as hoped at The Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Championships. The Irish dropped matches to Iowa. 25­14, 25-21; No. 20 Ohio State, 25-16. 25-20; No. 24 ranked Northwestern 33-31. I 9-25, 15-10; and No. 9 Northern Illinois, 25-23. 25-21. Although returning to campus 0 -4 for the tournament, the Irish played well against these nationally-ranked teams. 

QUALITY Service• Student Di ounts • Gift Certificates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
For Your Best Tan E.ver! What's Your Plan? 
Get a Fun Tan! 

NEW UNIVERSITY LOCATION! 
We've kicked open the doors at the new FUN TAN University facility on the corner of 23 and Ironwood! Near Kinkos. FUN TAN brings you the newest innovations in designer tanning with beds and booths that deJiver 40% more tanning rays than any other bed on the market!! 
Why settle for less? 
272•76S3 NEW University Lo..:ation State Road-23 & Ironwood 256-9656 Comer of Grape and McKinley 291-2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironwood 
, 

SUMMER TOUR GUIDES 
The Admissions office needs tour guides who can work between 
May 22nd-August 11th 
(and during the Notre Dame Summer Sessions). 
Full-time and part-time positions available. Applications: Room 220 Main Building or by e-mail at Joyce.2@nd.edu 
Deadline for applying: April 21st 

Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
The Observer . TODAY page 31 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 32 Not participate 62 Follower of 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2000
1 Low-lying area 34 Beauty's Christ? CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS grievances. Property investments
6 Dept. of Labor admirer 63 Eighty Eight, for 
one 
DAY: Pearl Bailey, Jennifer Capriati, or residential changes should be
grp. -36 Part 2 of the 
Eric Idle, LaToya Jackson, John considered. 000 10 A&P part: Abbr. quip 64 Nero's tutor Major, Jill Goodacre, Lara Flynn VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): This 13 ''Three's 40 Covalent bond 65 N.J. clock Boyle, Walt Frazier, Marina Sirtis, is a good day for making money or 
Lucy Lawless changing jobs. However, don't
Company" formers setting 
Happy Birthday: Patience will be neglect your mate because you're too
actress 41 Like firewater 66 Tammany 
the key to getting ahead this year. busy celebrating with colleagues.
15 Dazzles skewerer
43 One of Henry's You must be a careful planner and 00000 
16 River inlet Catherines 67 Radiation make sure you are being realistic in LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Your quantities your/ursuits. Trying to take on the creative endeavors may appear to be
17 Start of a quip 46 Concrete 
worl will result only in disappoint-going nowhere. Take a break, get out 20 English 48 Irritated moQliilll ment. Being selective will ensure that and do things that will get yourmaritime county DOWN you accomplish what's important mind off your financial worries. 00
49 Meg's "Prelude 

21 Core 1 St. Louis-to­this year. Your numbers: 9, 22, 27, 31, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): This
to a Kiss" 

Little Rock dir. 38, 46 is not the day to put demands oaln
22 Matterhorn, co-star 1
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You partners. You should look over eg
2 Carpenter'se.g.: Abbr. 
50 1-80 et al. can ask for favors as long as you documents and make sure that you 
finishing touch
23 Reason for don't require help with legal matters have all your papers in order. 0000
52 Stat that's good 3 Ancient resident 

that it is best to deal with in private. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.
imprisonment, when it's low of Jordan's 
Take time to visit a friend who has 21): Property deals look good. Av~id 
once 53 Sony rival 
been out of commission. 00 letting family and friends get in­
present-day25 Satyr's kin 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): volved in your personal life. You can 26 Prettify oneself 
56 Beethoven's capital 
Promises may be broken. If you are learn valuable information if you sit
"Pathetique," 4 Wanton look 

trying to make a deal, get it in writ-back and listen 000
29 War room items e.g. 
5 Coastal raptors 
ing. Problems at home will surface if CAPRICORN (Dec. 22•Jan. 19):
31 Recipe amts. 59 End of the quip 
you have been working overtime too Correspondence will make the differ­much. 0000 ence. Get involved in business that 
6 Symbol of might 
7 Fragrant 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): entails mail order or telephone solic­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE climbing plant 
Romantic relationships may appear iting. Remember, a change is as good8 Pianist Myra 
to be on shaky ground. Don't forget as a rest. 000
Puzzle by Gene Newman 

to include your mate in after-hour AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
9 [No return 28 Any miniature 44 Warm hellos 55 Gymnastics activities even if the majority of peo--Your energy will surprise othersallowed] 
golf shot ple will be from work. 000 today. Go after your goals whole-
coach Karolyi

45 Take offense at
----1-....1 1oScenes of action 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): This heartedly and don't be afraid to
30 Talk trash to

-+--+--1-~~ 11 1996 golf movie 47 More, in a 57 Cry out for is not the best day to make an invest-include co-workers in your efforts. 33 Son of Odin saying 
ment or sign legal papers. Read 000
12 Gets dark 58_Domini 
between the lines. Short trips may be PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If
35 Transporters 51 Dipsos14 It has runners 
helpful to an older member of your logic doesn't work when you're deal­
since '76 60 Musician's suffix 
18 Bit of gossip 54 It may be family. 000 ing with your partner, turn your 37 Beryl varieties pumped 61 Jabber tEO (July 23-Aug. 22.): Partner-mood around by doing things for
19 No-no at some 
ships may be tense if you haven't yourself. A new hairstyle or a change 
38 Halvesintersections 

listened carefully to each other's of image will help. 0000 --+--+-+__..~_, 22 G. I. 39 Hypnotize Answers to any three clues in this puzzleconstabulary 42 Fed. are available by touch-tone phone: Birthday Baby: You will strive to accomplish peace through~ut your life. You will look for security in all that you do and will have the patience to help
24 Played the management 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). nanny agcy. others along the way. .
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadv1ce.com, 
--4--'-.;..i.;.;J 27 Saudi Arabia is 43 Flat peppermint best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 eugenialast.com, astromate.com.)one candy years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
~ 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
Yov KNOW, If WE (OOK .....__J 
(3UT NONf OF OUR. 
EN0V6\1 f-\AC.MtONl J\~O 
Oot:.I"\ I':,\ rc.~E N'.s POTS 
(MEESE, "WE O,~ FeE.O 
F\\JO P~w<; ARE. 
Ovt..SE.LVES FOR. ~t.J 
SIG E:NOUG'"' 
l;:NT1RE. WEE.I<.. 
Fox TROT 
MONDA"'( IT WAS 
TUESDAY IT WAS 
MEATBALLS IN 
MEA T8ALL S IN 
RED SAUCE. 
BROWN SAUCE. 
I 

WrlE~E ON E~Rt\.\ ARE WE 60lW(:, To FINO ~ PoT L~R6E £ND\i6~ Tc"""~£ 
M,._C.U~.OIIJI IN ~UC..\\ ti. M~SSl\/E VOLUME.?. 
YESTERDAY IT WAS MEATBALLS IN 8LACIC SAUCE. 
I 
TOM KEELEY 
AL R\6\-\l", W p.o Pv-, 
/'H,l.~ioNl ~t-lD C\\EE.S~ \N ,HE W~S~ING M~C.\.\IN£ \< \ 
... 
BILL AMEND 
THIS CAFETERIA CARE FOR OoES HAVE A A MEAT­REFR1C:,ERAToR, BALL IN RIGHT? FUZZY 
GREEN SAUCE? 
I ·.... 
'•'' '.•,••,•· 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM OF THE JOB 5EARc Osc\\ODl-souNo Gooo Yer 
It's officially Spring. Time for baseball, but not just baseball ... 
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL 

NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL 
Fri. Mar. 31 vs. Connecticut 4 pm 
-.,come wit~ an appetite, enjoy the food & music! 
-
4P\ * First 50 students eat free! * 

~B?JCJ;';F,'('.. ·.•· ...···• < ·. ,·. 
lt 
Pen Barbeque 
* First 50 fans get free CD, courtesy of Media Play! * 




.J J 
O
THE page 32 BSERVER 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish move closer to NIT championship 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Asso<:1.Hc: Sports Editor 

NE\\' YOHK 
Notre Dame moved one step closer to winning the NIT title with a balanced team effort and a 73-52 victory over Penn State Wednesday. 
Senior point guard Jimmy Dillon marked the game's tempo, giving the Irish their first two points on the way to a.15-2 earlv lead. Dillon, better known for passing off an open look to his teammates than for taking the ball to the hoop, started the Irish scoring off \\'ith an off-bal­ance jumper as the shot clock ran down. 
"I think Jimmy's first shot of the game kind of set it all off," sophomore forward David Graves said. "You never really expect that coming from Jimmy.'' 
The Irish opened things up with wide open three-pointers by All-American Troy Murphy and freshman guard Matt Carroll. followed by two Graves free throws. As the Irish domi­nated· the boards. sophomore f'onvard Harold Swanagan scored in the paint and back-up point guard Martin lngelsby swished a trey. 
Six Irish players scored in the first six minutes of play. helping demolish the Nittany Lions· hopes of victory. 
"The last five games or so, Coach has really stressed for us to come out and be the aggres­sors." Murphy said. "Right from the start, we wanted to be the aggressors. I think that we did a good job of that tonight, and kind of got them back on their heels a little bit at first." 
After opening with a 13-point 
see B-BALL/page 28 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Keyplay.com, NDToday.com top Bookstore rankings 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Editor 

With the arrival of spring comes a time honored tradition on the basketball courts at Notre Dame: Bookstore Basketball. 
The annual competition, billed as the largest five-on-five tour­nament in the country. is slated 
\I to begin on April 10 with 538 registered teams. After much deliberation, the Bookstore Basketball 

Preparing for the Irish 
vVake Forest. Notre Dame's opponent in Thursday's NIT final. defeats North Carolina State. 
page 27 
Wednesday, March 29, 2000 
IRISH INSIGHT 

Irish silencing critics 
NE\VYORK 
Busloads of Penn State stu­dents madP the four-hour trip from State College. Penn.. to New York Citv to cheer on · their Nittany Lions Tucsdav 
night. . Their boister­ous voic­es were heard loud and· clear during the pre­game warm­ups and player introductions. but Notre Dame quickly quielf~d the Penn State faithful with a 
ll.. 15-2 run to open the game. The Irish were in control from the opening tip and were able to finish what they started. After the opening surge, Penn State was rnwer ablo to get rinser than four points. A balanced Irish attack and an l 1-0 run to dose the first half sealed the Nittany Lions' fate as well as 
_ the mouths of their support­ers. With jus.t over 11 min­utes left in the second half and Notre Dame ahead by 21 poinl<;, the Penn State fans no longer roared like Nittany Lions. Instead they were as 

see KESSLER/page 28 
Commission released its ranking of' the top 32 entrants Monday. 
"All of the commissioners sit down and talk about the teams ­who's on them, how good they are," said head commissioner Brian Borger. "\Ve get a lot of our information from watching teams play over in Rolfs or at the Rock. We make sure that the commissioners are well informed to make choices. We don't have a specific formula for picking the teams, but we usual­ly come to a consensus within one or two spots." 
Headlining the list of talented teams is last year's second­ranked squad. Keyplay.com. Keyplay .com is a veteran team. returning Cas Schneller. Tom Dietrich, Paul Moore and John Teasdale. Dan O'Leary replaces graduated 1999 All-Bookstore first team player Alex Gese. 
The quintet, which fell just short of a chance to play in the finals last year, is banking on its size to help carry them through the tournament. 
"We thought we'd be in the top three," said Schneller about the rankings. "\Ve're a lot big­ger than we were last year which helps -that was our big weakness last year. We've all been working out to get ready to play." 

As formidable as the squad will be on the court. Keyplay.com has a tough group of competitors waiting to take down the top seed. 
At the No. 2 spot, NDToday.com boasts a roster of talented players B.J. Kloska. a walk-on to the varsity basketball squad last year. will join Todd Titus, Tim Muething. Mark Godosh and Dave Mikolyzk, all who played on ranked Bookstore teams last year. 
"We felt pretty good about fthe No. 2 ranking] -we were happy with it," said Mikolyzk. "We've been playing well together and we're looking for­ward to start the tournament." 
NDToday.com finds its strength in its defense -a skill the team will need as it works its way into deeper rounds of the tournament. 
see BOOKSTORE/page 29 
at TexasMen's Golf

ar Michigan~·1 
Saturday, l p.m. 
~~ t-=-=:·,} Today, 4 p.m. at Kentucky
SPORTS 

Friday Softball Track and Field vs. Ohio Stace ATA .,, ys. Eastern Michigan Saturday, IO a.m. 
Saturday, 3 p.m. Today, 4 p.m. 
·GLANCE 








