-~-------------------­
She's back 
Peacemaker? 
1lni DiFanco's 13th album doe:m 't 
President Clinton was nominatedfor the Noble 

Tuesday
di.<;appoint new listeners and devoted fans. 
Peace Prize for the fifth straight year. 

Scene . page 13 
WorldNation . page 5 

FEBRUARY 1, 
2000 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII NO. 73 HTTP:1/OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

First round vote ends in run-off for candidates 

vs. 

Renner Nagle 
By NELLIE WILLAMS 
News Writer 
Emily K•H'lsd1 and running mat•• Hac·hBl HodartP will br in a runoff ele.tion on \Vc•dnPsday against Crissi<' HPniwr and her running matP Mit'lwll1• Nag(., in th(• rat:<' f'or stuc!Pnt body prPsidl'nt and vicf' µrPsidPnt of' Saint Mary's. 
Tlw HPntrnr/NaglP tkkrt was alwacl with 4:{ pPrrc-nl of thl' votes. whilP Llw Ko,>is,·h/HodartP tirkPt was right bPhind wilh 37. 
··w<' an' thrillPd." HPnner imid about the Plm·tion results. "W11 still have so much to do. \\Ip just want to get everyono pumped up." 
Nagle is just as excited. 
"It's a wonderful award for such hard work and I'm look­ing forward tc, thP run-offs." 
Kodsr.h would still likr to see morn students cast their bal­lol-;. 
"We'd like to see more voting turnouts -that's an issuB for \V•~drwsday," Koelsch said. 
"I was happy.'' said Hodartr. "Honestly. Emily and I expect­ed a runoff. I'm excited we're up agai ns l [ Hen nc r/Nagle I becausP wn'vB had a good experience with thPm and bring friends with them makPs it nasier." 
llodart<' and Koelsch plan to campaign more among the stu­dPnl bodv bnforp tlw runolls on \VndnPsday. 
"We're going to go around to residence halls. talk to people and see if anyone has ques­tions.·• Koelsch said. 
"All the leg work on our part is done. It's now up to the stu­dent bodv.» said Rodarte. 
In oth~r election news. the Bittner/Banahan ticket received 14 percent of the vote. 

On Campus Students DINING HALL: 7-9 a.m., 12-2 p.m., 5-7 p.m. 
Off Campus Students HAGGAR COLLEGE CENTER: 11 a.m.-3p.m. 
'Cybersquatters' make monitoring essential 
By ERIN LaRUFFA News Writer 
Searching !'or the words "Notre Dame" on an lntPrtH\t search engine will return numProus rnsulLs including the University's official W••b-sito. sports-relatt!d sites and the sites of othnr schools with similar names. 
Sinr.t> llwsn Web addresses are ofton simi: lar to the offil'ial Notre Dam11 site. it is possi­bh· to conl'usP an u11rl'lated site with the one rdated to thn srhool. Whilr. most of the sites arP harmless. ~olrP Dame and otlrnr col­leges a1:ross the country arc worried about the use or their trademarked names as domain names l'or Web-sites. 
"Them are ongoing efforts to enforce (Notre Dame] trademarks," said Larry Williams, Dirni:tor of Licensing for the University. "We had alwavs dealt with trade­mark infl:ing(1nwnt in other mediums." 
Hcgistering a dom,Lin nanrn is rPlatively Pasy and inPxpnnsivn. Since domain names are m,ianl lo sPrVP only as addresses !'or Wf'b-silcs. only 01w numeral or digit has to differ bntwoen lwo separate domain names. Companies that register names do not check 
see WEBSITE/page 4 
Koelsch Rodarte 
while the Koepke/Hollis ticket earned 3 percent. There were hrn penalties in the campaign against Koepke/Hollis and Bittner/Banahan for violating campaign rules. but the viola­tions came aft.r,r the votes wHre counted. 
Thirty-six percent of the stu­dent bodv turned out to vote, compared with 37 percent last year. 
"This is a good number ­it's what we usually get," said Bridget Heffernan, interim election commissioner. "We expected more votes because we had four tickets. but we're still happy." 
The election table was set up in the lower part of the dining hall during breakfast and lunch. and then was moved inside the dining hall for din­ner. 
"The location was really bad." said Heffernan. 
Saint Mary's examines sexuality attitudes 
Friday's alumnae panel, entitled Mary's visiting professor of anthro­
By NOREEN GILLESPIE "Alumnae Perspectives on Identity pology and current professor of 
S.iinr Mary's Editor and Sexual Orientation, SMC and anthropology at the University of 
Beyond," at 4 p.m. in Dalloway's. will Oklahoma. who will lecture on 
In a deviation from Saint Marv's feature four Saint Marv's alumnae. Thursday evening. Bender's lecture. standard majors of the week, a c:ol­The women, who graduated from held in Stapleton Lounge at 7 p.m., is laboration of groups is examining Saint Mary's during different time entitled "Sexual Identity: attitudes regarding sexuality through periods, will discuss their experi­Anthropological and Personal 
Identity Week. ences and attitudes they encountered Reflections." 
Organized by People in Support. regarding sexuality at Saint Mary's. All films show during the week GALA ND/SMC, the Office of the Dean "Our main goal involve depictions of of Faculty, the Feminist Collective was to gP.t a cross­gay. lesbian and and six academic departments, the gc n erational per­"Students, particularly bisexual individuals week is designed to foster discussion spective on what who are dealing with 
college students, are
regarding sexuality and idontity the attitudes were their identities. 
inherently interested in
issues on campus. at different points The Celluloid Inspired by a position paper com­during the col­questioning and dealing Closet, to be shown posed by the Faculty Assembly on lege's history," tonight at 6 p,m.. is
with identity.'' 
sexual orientation, the week is Trey said. a 1996 Emmy-nomi­intended to raise some of the issues The forum is nated documentary on campus that were brought forth in intended to pro-George Trey that chronicles how that papP,r, said George Trey, associ­vide a different assoc;iate professor of philosophy Hollywood depir,ts ate professor of philosophy. perspective to stu-gays, lesbians and 
"It seemed like something that col­dents. bisexuals on the sil­lege students would be interested in," "This is a mon• student-to-studPnt ver screen. Through interviews and Trey said. "Student..,, particularly col­connection, versus a more academic film dips, it displays the attitudes lege students. are inherently inter­approach." Trey said. "Our reason behind those depictions. ested in questioning and dealing with for bringing in alumnae is to provide Wednesday's showing of The identity. This is pertinent to campus current students with a perspective Incredibly True Adventures of Two issues." on how students who have been away Girls in Love depicts a couple strug­
The week's events include film from Saint Mary's look back and see gling through the beginnings of a nBw showings. a lecture and an alumnae how those experiences have shaped relationship. while dealing with the panel that will open discussion and them." reactions of their friends and family. evaluation about attitudes regarding The week will also feature Dr. All movies will be shown in the off­sexual identity on campus. Margaret Bender, a former Saint campus lounge at 6:00 p.m. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, February 1, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Harder than it looks 
While home over Chrislmas Break. I made a "foolish" purchase. I used some Christmas money to buy a guitar. Wilh a chord book and some sheet music. I figured in no time at all I would be able to imit.ale my favorite stars I watch intently on MTV and CMT. They all easily strum away at the instru­ment, and I thought I too could quickly pick up the tal­ent. 
It didn't take me long to [ig­urn out that playing guitar is harder than it looks. Just getting my fingers to stretch across the different strings was ditlicult enough. and then added to that. I had to strum the thing. It was near­ly impossible! l couldn't even figure out whether to strum just up or up aud down. 
The more I thought about this. I recalled several other times where things were harder than they looked. Example No. 2: the wonderful Nordic Trark cross country skiing machine. How many have seen the 75-year-old man in the commercial honkin' on -I mean. he's flying, smiling and having a grand ol' time. And yet, when I step on there I can barely make my arms and feet move at the same time much less go at a decent pace. 
Honestly. how many people have ever tried the machine? I do not understand how the commer­cial manages to make it look so fun. easy and appealing. 
My final example is quite embarrassing. I assume by now everyone has taken a PE class while in college. At Notre Dame. we have the opportunity to choose from a variety of different sports. 
Last year. I decided that it would be good for me to take an ice skating class; the one time I had tried. I had a small bit of difficulty. I figured by the end of the rotation I'd be turning triple axles like Nancy Kerrigan, Tara Lipinski and Kristi Yamaguchi. 
The first day of class I strapped on my skates and headed out on the rink. I knew I was not gifted on the ice so I stayed close to the wall until the teacher called us to begin with the basics. 
"OK class," she said. "To warm up everyone skate across the rink." 
Quite easily. my entire class flew over to the wall on the other side. I began my attempt at try­ing to waddle across the rink and the instructor yelled out. "YOU! Get back on the wall. I can't be responsible for someone getting hurt out here!" 
The entire class was now on the other side of the rink. the teacher stood in the middle and everyone looked at me trying to get back to the wall. I have never been more embarrassed. 
I guess ice skating falls into the same ranks as the guitar and Nordic Track. Some people are blessed with these talents and for some of us. these activities are way harder than they look. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column ar(' those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Laura Rompf Jenn Zarorski Erm LaRuffa Emmert Malloy 
Helena Rayam 
Graphics Sports 
Mandi Powell Kevin Berchuu 
Production Viewpoint Brian Kessler 
A.J. Boyd Lab Tech Peter Richardson 
The Obwver (USPS 59'! 2-4000) is p11l,lished Monday rhrot1!\h Friday n,epf during exam .u1<l \';lGUi011 perio<ls. TI1e: Oh~rvrr is .1 member of ,ht ~od.ueU Pf~. All repn~la..:tion ri}d1a ,uc reservc:tt 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
'?{things are going "Nobody expected well, expect Bush to this, We 're just trying ru.n a very vague, to stick together and compassionate work through this. " conservative 
Stephen Maio
campaign. 
soccer team member on the death of coach Mike
Patrick Pierce Berticclli
Saint Mary's professor on Bush's campaign for president 
"My films have never been shown to more than three or four people. I am a little 
nervous. 
Claire Connelly student filmmaker on the student film festival 
"[[he students] are a big part ofthis program and we could not have won this game without them. " 
Matt Doherty men's basketball coach on the team's win over St. John's 
Compiled from LJ.Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Stanford group scrutinizes campus recruiters 
STANFOHD, Calif. "Philip Morris actually The mission or SICD is not without During college, many students have its own bit of controversv. Some
canceled their interviews ... I
high hopes of making the world a bet­University oll1cials worry that high­ter place. However, as they find them­guess they wanted to avoid lighting negative information about selves getting trampled at career fairs the bad publicity." companies will cause them to cease and overwhelmed by the pressure lo coming to campus, or will at least dis­make money. it is easy to lose sight of' rourage them from hiring Stanford 
Ned Tozun
original ideals. studcnb. 
Stanford senior Ned Tozun. founder founder, Students for lnfonned In fact, tobacco giant Philip Morris of a new stud('nt group, Students for Career Decisions r,anceled scheduled interviews with Informed Career Decisions lSICD), students last November after students said he believes students do not have organized a protest to inform the
sampling that will grow and change
to surrender their aspirations of soda! campus of what they allege to be 
as we find out more clMrly who are
responsibility when they en ler the unethical marketing policies.
the big recruiters and which would be
work force. At the time, Tozun told Stanford's 
most helpful to have information on
SICD hopes to provide students with student newspaper, "Philip Morris
for students." 
ready information about the labor, actually canceled their interviews human rights and environmental In effect. no company has been sin­today when they heard there might be practices of major corporations that gled out as a "bad guy," Tozun said. a protest. I guess they wanted to avoid recruit at Stanford by profiling them, He emphasized that SICD's aim is to the bad publicity." Tozun said. , provide objective information that Another factor is that many of these 
Tozun explained that the 59 compa­presents both sides of any controver­corporations are donors to the nies being profiled are a "random sy. University. 
Police arrest OSU students at protest 
COHVALUS, Ore. 
Five people were arrested by the Oregon State Police Friday evening. ending a 12-hour sit-in at the College of Veterinary Medicine in protest of' a small­animal surgery class. Three of those arrested were students at Oregon State University, while two oth­ers were Corvallis residents. The live were taken to jail and charged with criminal trespass, which is a misdemeanor. They were then released. Three other OSU students who were also participating in the protest were not charged because they walked away from the protest voluntarily following requests f'rom the police. The rest of the protesters, however, had to be forcibly removed. "They had to cut us out," Lincoln said. "This was too important for us to just get up and leave." Administrators of the College of Veterinary Medicine state that the animals used in the small-animal surgery course come from shelters where they are already scheduled lo be euthanized. Lincoln and the rest of' the protesters contend that the administration is not telling the truth. "The administrators have misrepresented the whole situa­tion," Lincoln said. 
Meningitis victim returns to S. Illinois 
CARBONDALE. Ill. 
Carrie Milnor knows she is lucky to be alive today as she laughs with friends a.bout being airlifted to a Springfield hospital in critical condition in November. Milnor. a sophomore, contracted poten­tially fatal bacterial meningitis last November. Meningitis, caused by viruses or bacteria. is an infec­tion of the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord. Milnor first noticed flu-like symptoms, with chills and body aches. A fever of l 02 degrees convinced her to seek medical help. A friend of Milnor's drove her to Carbondale Memorial Hospital where Milnor underwent blood tests. She was released with a prescription for antibiotics. The next morning, Milnor noticed spots all over her body. She soon discovered she had meningitis. Milnor was placed in intensive care until Dec. 2, and was kept isolated until her release Dec. 4. Milnor's illness caused her to miss the last three weeks of' the fall semester. The missed school left her with incom­pletes in her classes, and Milnor is making up her schoolwork now. "I realized how valuable [life] is, and it can be taken away," Milnor said. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'"furecast t,1r daytime con<litim1s anli high temperatures 
The AccuWeather« forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 1. 
Lines separate high 1emperature zones for the day. 
r--.......,<,~,,./L ... 
I 
! H L 
I 
Tuesday ~ 26 17 Wednesday ~ 36 25 Thurs(Jay ~ 44 32 Friday) ' ~ 46 33 
0 2000 AccuWHther, Ille. 
.i 
Pm.,,..: 
® © D EB IT:J ~ D . <.) ~---. 
Hlgn Low Showen R11ln T-atorm1 Flurries Sl'IOw lea Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
.,.·1 •
SatuFtlay . d 42 26 
V. ,-'.,$OOII/~ p,_u
.,.:;,.•~t;:·.;:=·
f.,,> ,~sw·'-..;·-­

Atlanta 50 35 Las Vegas 64 39 Portland 50 36 Baltimore 42 22 Memphis 46 28 Sacramento 58 46 Boston 38 26 Mitwaukee 28 14 SI. Louis 34 22
~sft~,gAf) ~ 8 (f ~ c:2 
Chicago 32 14 New York 42 22 Tampa 68 53 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 54 48 Philadelphia 40 25 Wash DC 42 25 
Vie Affociated Preu GtaphicsNt1r 
Tuesday, hbruary 1, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Venturing beyond the Dome 

. More students studing abroad 
By NICOLE HADDAD 
Ne1.vs Writ-er 
Tlw University of Notre Dame has the highest percentage of studenL'i participating in study abroad programs among American research universities. a!'rording to a rnport released by the Institute of International liduration. 
"\.Vp've worked very hard on gelling sLudl'nls to study abroad. and we've found they VPrv much want to," said Mi,.-hacl Francis. assistant provost for international studiBs. 
"It isn't just rhetoric when the 
University says it wants to 
internationalize. Sending stu­
dents abroad is a part of that, 
and it will be even more so as 
our numbers rise." 
The increase in the number of 
students studying abroad is due 
in part to the recent enhance­
ment and expansion of pro­
grams in London and Dublin 
along with the expected addition 
of new programs, Francis noted. 
In addition to the integration 
of programs. Francis points out 
that students themselves are 
also responsible for the · increased numbers. "The student grapevine is powerful," Francis said. As students rave about their 
•experiences, other students find themselves interested in study­ing abroad as well. 
Students of all maj6rs are get­
ting involved. Ten years ago. 85 
perr,ent of students studying 
abroad were in the Arts and 
Letters program, said Francis. 
That number has sinr,e dropped 
to 50 percent, while the other 
50 percent has grown from mul­
tiple other programs. 
More opportunities are espe­cially opening up for science majors. Specifically. the· expand­ed programs in London and Dublin allow science students to study abroad. For example, in London, there is a pre-med-ori­ented physics program, while in Dublin, several courses are now available in the scienr,es. 
Several Notre Dame programs include distinctive components that are unmatched amid higher education facilities. In Jerusalem, students study at the Ecumenical Institute for Theological Studies at Tantur, a center established jointly by Notre Dame and Pope Paul VI in 1971. 
The Dublin program is located in historic Newman House and includes a partnership with University College Dublin and Trinity College, Dublin. Students in Fremantle study at the University of Notre Dame­Australia, a Catholic institution modeled after Notre Dame. 
The Rome program provides a 
required year of study for stu­

dents in the School of Architecture and is considered by many the leading center for classicism among American colleges and universities. 
"Wherever the program is located, the personal and acad­emic growth students gain by studying abroad is immeasur­able," Francis said. "The value of studying in another country is related to globalization," he said. "Our students will end up working abroad as well as in companies that have other operations in other countries. It's just vital to have this kind of experience as an undergrad­uate." 
"The students in our pro­grams come back with their lives changed," said Francis. "They invariably say, '"This was the best semester of my life."' 
. New program to start in Mexico 
By HELENA RAYAM 
New, Writer 
The Office of International Studies will offer students a rww program in Puebla. Mexico, instead of the Mexico City pro­gram. "\Ve felt Mexir,o City was just too dangerous a place for our students and we were attracted to the quality and vuri­nty of' acadomic programs in Puebla," said Michael Francis, assistant provost for fnternational Studios in a pre­pared statement. 
At the Univcrsidad lberoamerica in Mexir,o City, students fell victim to various crimes. mainly thr,f't. The Puebla program will be lornted at the University of' the Americas, which is actually in Cholula, Mexico. Both Cholula and Puebla arr, nr,ar Mexico· City. 
"It's a culturally rich area," said Claudia Kselman. associate director fur International Programs. 
Puebla has a population of two million people, and many anthropologists have studied archaeological sites in the pre­Colombian city of Cholula. Kselman stated that this pro­gram will benefit anthropology majors. The program will also offer classes in science, business and "the full complement of Arts and Letters," said Kselman. 
The Office of International Studies intends to appoint a Notre Dame faculty member to be in Mexico to assist students and plan trips, among other duties. The need for an on-site director depends on the number of students who enter the pro­gram. 
"We hope that the students will seize the opportunity," said Kselman. 
Students can take classes for a 
semester or year and live on the campus or with families that the program screens. The program requires studenl'i to have a full year of Spanish before studying at the University. The program will try to start with at least ten students per semester. 
"Eventually we can go higher than that and we'd love to," said Kselman. · 
Currently there is one Notre Dame student at the University, senior Blanca Ibanez. She L'> fin­ishing dasses for her literature major and is taking computer application courses as well. 
The University has over 5,000 students and 95 percent are Mexican. Notre Dame's program is independent from that of other universities, but American schools -such as Stanford and Valparaiso also have programs at the same location. 
The program will not replace opportunities to study abroad in Monterrey, Mexico. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN PUEBLA, MEXICO 
Application Deadline for Fall 2000, Academic Year 2000-2001 has been extended to February 29, 2000 
Improve your Spanish and take courses in your major at one of Mexico's best universities, Universidad de las Americas 
For further information and applications, contact International Study Programs 201 Security Building 631-5882 

O'Laughlin Auditorium 
\ .., ,;q,z THE A#lTS 
· ·•'\i HOTIIE 0~111!, IN 
.-" ,.• 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Offic:'284-4626 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 1, 2000 
Website 
continued from page I 
for similarities between new addrt>sses and existing ones. 
People known as cybersquattcrs buy large quantities or domain names in hopes of selling the names later. Cybersquatters thus profit commercially from the names they register. Lav,is passP.d late in 1999 estab­lished financinl pimalli<>s for cybersquatters who purposPly exploited domain names. 
Trademark owm;rs. sud1 as Notrt' Damf'. are n'.quirnd Lo protpct their tradt>marks. including usPs which are 
·"cont'usingly similar'' to tlrn trademark. said \-\1illiams. lie added that if any trademark owner failed to prevent surh uses. the owner would forl'eit thP rights to Uw trademark. 
"We !at Notn• Dame] don'.t mind if there's excitement about the sports pro-

SUZANNE KELLMAN/The Observer Beca~se entrepreneur called •cybersquatters' often buy up many websites in hopes that oth­ers will purchase them, there 1s an ongoing fear that web addresses will violate the Notre Dame trademark. . ' 

grams," he 
"There are ongoing 
those cases. ring to fan­efforts to enforce [Notre The next step itl'ter a 
said. refer­
based sites Dame] trademarks." 
cease-and­sehool"s 
aboul the 
desist letter Larry Williams would be to
sports teams. The director of licensing for receive a Universitv Nore Dame 
court injunc­
hecause of a domain name. The University would seek legal action over a Web-site if such action became neces­sary. Williams said. 
Monito,ring the use of the Notre Dame name is difficult beeause there are infinite ways in which a nanw could be incorporated into a W<•b address. Notre Dame does its own monitoring and also relies on supporters sur.h as alumni to report questionable usage, 
Companins who pay money for the usP of' the Notre Dame trademark also alc;rt the University t.o unauthorized use of the mark. 
The first step in dealing with an objectionable domain name is to send a cease-and­desist lettPr to, the 1-rnrson lo whom the site is registered. Such a letter would rnquest that the owner stop using tlrn Notre Dame name and would also thn~atf'n a lawsuit. The University has tak1>n this step, although Williams could not disr.uss details of 
does no·t mind most sites forus­ing on other University pro­grams, either. 
As with other colleges and universities. Notre Dame wants to prevt'nt its nam<' from being used in a disrep­utable manner. 
"The Univ1>r:sity has a repu­tation that it holds near and dear. and it doesn't want its name used in anvwav that would bP denrna1;ing ·to it," Williams said. adding that the University examines each use of its name on an individual basis. 
The University would object to an unaffiliated site that used its name for profit through advertisements or sales. Using the University's name in relation to a site for pornography is another. 
Although the University has gone to court in the past to proter.t its trademark from misuse in other mediums. it has not yet had to go to court 
{}rd n 
tion to stop the trade­mark usage. 
The University has not yet needed to take such an aclion. 
Under new legislation to protect trademarked names from being used improperly for Internet addresses, Harvard L'nivcrsity is current­ly suing a Web-site designer who registered over 60 lntPrnet addresses containing the words "llarvard" or "Hadrliffe." According to offi­cials at Harvard. the man demanded money from the 
University,  a  claim the  man  
denies.  
Other schools  have  also  

faced problems. New York University, for instance, recently dealt with a site called nyudormcam.com that claimed· to have video cam­eras in the University's dorm rooms. The site's owners agreed to change the name of their site and all other refer­en res to NYU before legal action was necessary. 
i? 
1-5323 
:• ~ d::)h 8:30 p.m. :• 
i (;0 ~,ce Rockne 30Ii 
• . 
~...-..< tv;tfi i 
us .
•
• 
This Thursday learn 
theM'\MBO 
$2 for a 45 minute beginner lesson. $3 for a 90 minute beginner + i advance lesson : 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••1 
orld 


Tuesday, February 1, 2000 C0MPllED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Attacks delay peace with Syria 
JERUSALEM 
l'rinw Minister Ehud Barak said Loday that talks with Svria would not resume until it rPinr.d in Lh.[1 lfozbollah guerrilla army, a sla.111·11 that would \ikelv ['rni,ze U.S. Hfforts to rPvivP tlw stalled negotiations just hours afll'r LIHP<' Israeli soldiers were killed in Lebanon. IIPzbollah guerrillas blastr.d an lsral'li patrol with rockPt-propell('d grr.nadl's and mai:hirn•-gun lirP, also wounded flvM oth­1•rs. LPb,uwsP s<'rurity officials :mid. "lsnu~l will nut bP able to 1wgotiatfi peace as long as tlw Svrians do not restrain the Hezbollah l'rom ·acting against the Israeli army in the sPrurily zonP," Barak said in a statement issu('d on Defense Ministrv letterhead, Barak's othnr govnrnmrnt ·position. The choirP lO includr a ban on attacks on the armv as a rnndition for talks is rare. Israel's rr>d ·line has traditionally been attar,ks on civilian st>LLIPnwnls along Israel's northern bordPr. 
At least 86 dead in Kenya 
Airways plane crash 
IVOHY COAST 
,\s dawn brokP Monday across the inky watPrs or the Atlanti<". the men of the ,\rtaban launched tlwir ship into a night­man•. BudiPs surroundl'd thnm: men. wonwn. children. limbs that had been torn awav. The rPrnains !1oatPd amid the baggagf\ books and rlotlws of dozPns of passengt>rs killPd whPn Knnya Airways Flight 431 slamnwd into thc sea. At least 10 pcoplr, sur­vivt'd the disaslnr. By Monday evening. 86 bodiE\S had been brought to shore. resr,ue workers said. and most searchers had given up J'or th<' night Thr plane. an Airbus 310, took off at 9:08 p.m. Sunday Into overcast skies. Oestined for Lagos. Nigeria. it crashed into the ocean aflt\r onlv one minute in the air. according to George hapre Yao, the head of air traflk at Abidjan's Ffdix llouphouet­Boigny :\irport. 
North Korea will allow U.S. inspection of human remains 
WASHINGTON 
North Korca invited the United States on Monday to st>nd forensics f\xperts to an area whl'r!' th1i communist governm1rnt says it unnarthed lrnndrPds of human rnmains that mav bP Anwrican sE~rvic1)men killed in the Ko1:<'an War. The Pentagon said the offer is under rt'Vtt\W. To bolstr.r its claim that the remains arP /\nwrican. North Korea released a nanw from a military identifirntion tag it said was found among the remains. The name is Charles E. Sizemore. According to l'rntagon records, Sizemore was a soldier from Hush County. Ind.. who went missing on Nov. 2, 1950, a date th at rnincides with major clashes in the part of North Korea wlwrP thP r1'mains arn claimed to have boen found. 
••WiiMiM¦­

Dow ~:1~21= 
JONES -7-'N Nasdaq:
+201.66 

3941U5 
+5328 
NYSE 
621.73 
+9.92 
S&P 500: Com posit(' Volume:
1394.46
10,940.53 
I, 186,933,460
+34.30 
VOLUME LEADERS 
~t.12A:U t;11;;Hl\ !i S:IWIWI I ~di.tis fli,lJ;I 
QUJLl.,COMk lN~ QCOM ..1,.n •16.14, 12'1 .'90 MICROGOPT CORP MSPT -0. ";8 -0.31 ,,.88 INTE.L. CORP INTC +S.Z6 H,U 98. 94 D~L(. CONPU'l'H DRLL +3. l ~ +1 ,1 g n.4.t OM.CLE COit? 01\Ct. -tS.U +l ,S8 t9.95 CISCO SYSffM.S csco . S.44 +S .63 lG!J .50 A.M2F:ICJ. ONI,,INE AOL -~-2.1:I -1.9.C. s,.!u
,.
MCl WORLDCOM WCON +10.3-7 t-4 .32 45 .,, COMPAQ COMPUTBR CPQ -0.H -o.o, i1 ••, SUN 1'1ICR.OSYSTEM SUNW +4. 66 +LSO: 78.~6 
GERMANY 

Associated Press 
BERLIN 
The head of the Christian Democratic, party admitted Monday to meet­ing a second time with a key figure who gave off­the-books cash to the party, further undermining his r,redibility to lead Germany's conservatives out of their spiraling funds scandal. 
Wolfgang Schaeuble has repeated at news rnnfer­ences, on television appearances and in state­ments to parliament that he met onlv once with German-Ca~adian busi­nessman Karlheinz Schreiber, accepting $50,000 in cash in 1994 after a party function. Schaeuble has said he turned the money over to the party treasurer. 
After German ZDF and ARD public television reported another Schreiber encounter, party spokesman Thomas Raabe confirmed that Schaeuble had found another meeting with the businessman in his 1995 appointment cal­endar. 
"However, I don't have any memory of such a meeting, as opposed to the meeting when Schreiber handed over a cash dona­tion," Schaeuble told Bayerischer Rundfunk tele­vision. 
Schreiber has refuted Schaeuble's account of how the cash traded hands, say­ing he actually gave the money to then-party trea­surer Brigitte Baumeister. 
Baumeister has corrobo­rated Schreiber's account, according to a report in the Berlin tabloid BZ that said she will testify to parlia­ment investigf.tors that she received the $50,000 and then handed the money over to Schaeuble. 
Schaeuble said he was ready to swear to the par­liament committee about his version of the events, saying the contradictions could lead to a criminal investigation. 
Leaders pick Clinton as Nobel nominee 
Associated Press 
OSLO, Norwav 
President Clinton and American peace envuy George Mitchell were among those nominated for this year's Nobel Peace Prize as the dead­line ran oul Munday. 
Clinton was nominated for at least the fifth straight year, this time by two Norwegian parlia­menlarians, Vidar Kleppe, of the right-wing Party of Progress and Steinar Bastesen, an independent. 
"Clinton is president of the world's most powerful nation and throughout his presidential term has been a guarantor and friend of peace," a news release from the legisla­tors said. They said he was a key player in end­ing war and conflicts in the former Yugoslavia, and defends human rights worldwide. 
The Norwegian awards committee said it may not release the number of nominations until its first meeting on Feb. 23. 
The secretive five-mern­be r Nobel Peace Committee never releases lhe names of candidates. However, those making nominations often announce their pick. The winner is announced in mid-October. 
The Norwegian news agency NTB said Mitchell was nominated for his peace efforts in Northern Ireland by an American congressman, who was not identified. 
Finnish lawmakers in December nominated their President Martti Ahtisaari. whose term ends this month, for his peacemaking efforts in Kosovo and Namibia. 
Each year, the awards committee is flooded by nominations, many of 
them invalid because they are made by those without nomination rights. This year. invalid nominations induded one from a group of Serbian war veterans for Yugoslav President Slobudan Milosevic. blamed for much of the violence in the Balkans through the 1990s, NTB said. 
Those with nomination rights include members of national legislatures and governments, past laureates, some universi­ty professors and peace groups, and awards com­mittee members. 
--------------~-­
.. 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 1, 2000 
Airliner crashes near L.A. Want to take pictures? Call Kevin. 1-8767 
Associated Press 
OXNARD, Calif. 
An Alaska Airlines jet carrying 65 passengers and five crew members from Mexico to San Francisco crashed Monday in the Pacific Ocean after reporting mechanical dil1iculties. 
Flight 261 from Puerto Vallarta was reported down 20 miles northwest of the Los Angt>lt>s air­port about 3:45 p.m., the Federal Aviation Administration said. Pieces of wreckage could be seen in the water, but there was no sign of sur­vivors. 
A Coasl 
FAA spokesman Mitch Barker said the plane was a Boeing 737. Boeing spokeman Craig Martin said the company was told by Alaska Airlines that the plane was an MD-80. 
Cynthia Emery. FAA flight operations officer in Seattle, con­firmed the number-of passengers and crew. 
On Sunday, a Kenya Airways Hight crashed into the Atlantic Ocean shortly after take off from Abidjan. Ivory Coast. The Airbus 310 carried 10 crew members 
0
and 169 passengers. At least 10 people survived. Last Oct. 31, EgyptAir Plight 

990 plummeted
"Right now they are
Guard heli­into the ocean copter, a Navy searching for survivors." 60 miles south 
airplane and Come Join the Tradition
of the small boats Massachusetts
Jeanne Reineke 
were search­island of 
lieutenant, U.S. coast gaurd
ing a large Nantucket. All 
field of debris rolling in swells off Point Mugu as darkness began to descend on ·the ocean. Spotlights illuminated the water. which typically has a tempera­ture in the low 50s this time of year. 
.. night now they an! searching for survivors." saicl Coast Guard Lt. Jeanne Reineke. "They see a large debris field, bul lhal's all we've heard from them." 
The jet's crew had reported mechanical difficulties and asked to land at Los Angeles, said Ron Wilson, a spokesman for the San Francisco airport. The flight was scheduled to continue to Seattle after San Francisco. 
"Radar indicates it fell from 
17.000 feet and then was lost from radar." Wilson told KRON­TV in San Francisco. 
217 people aboard the Boeing 767 were kilk•d. 
Alaska Airlines, which has a distinctive image of an Eskimo painted on the tails of its planes, has an excellent safety record. It has huilt itself into a western power by serving morn than 40 cities in Alaska, Canada, Mcxir.o and fivo Western states. Its head­quarters are in Seattle. 
The airline had two fatal acci­dents in the 1970s, both in Alaska, according to Airsafe.com, a Web site that tracks plane crashes. 
In 1971, an Alaska Airlines Boeing 727 approaching Juneau crashed into a mountain slope after the crew had received mis­leading navigational information. All 104 passengers and seven crew members and were killed. 
Domino's Pizza 
Large 
One 
Topping Pizza 
Tuesdays only 
Call todav and 11am-2am Sun-Thurs
211-0300
mention this all!! 11am-3am Fri-Sat 
Tuesday, February I, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 
Come to Me all you who labor and are heavily burdened, And I will give you rest... 

I make a holy hour each day in the presence ofJesus in the Blessed Sacrament. All my sisters ofthe Missionaries ofCharity make a daily holy hour as well, because we find that through our daily holy hour our love for Jesus becomes more intimate, our love for 
each other more under­standing, and our love for the poor more compassion-ate... " 
-Mother Teresa 

Jesus is here with us in the Euchari~t to give us answers-answers that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of death, it is easy for people tq become weary and indifferent to God and His gift of life. People often fall short of their obligation to care for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and others. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others (through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and other forms of violence. This is because, it is only through the grace which comes from prayer that other's hearts can be changed from see¼:ing death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. To be Christian, we must follow Christ. If He is not the source of all we do, it is worth nothing. We ask you to join us in prayer for life... 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 
God is present to us in many ways in our world, but He is especially present to us in fae Eucharist. As Roman Catholics, we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived 2000 years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic Adoration, the Host is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be aS'le to come and pray. Jesus is always hidde-:1 in the tabernacle, but in adoration he is exposed so that we can come and kneet before Him, face to face, and speak with our God. When Jesus is exposed like this, He can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsi­ble to some and pray with Him for a certain amount of time (usually I hour) every week. 
Why should I go? 
If Jesus were to come to the JACC, would you-come and stand in line for ours just to talk to Him for a minute? Even if-you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least interested in this God so may people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly, physi­cally present here on campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO GO AND SPEAK WITH YOUR GOD FACE TO FACE. You confide in Him, plead with Him, question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, he will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 
When you enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees; instead of just one (like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever position you pray best in. And then you pray. There are many ways to pray: you can do spiritual reading; you can.pray a rosary; you can sit in·silence; you can even just talk to Jesus-Hke you would to a 'friend. The most important thing is that you love Him and allow Him to love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? 
"Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament, whether in a pyx or a monstrance, is a recognition of the wondrous Presence of Christ in the sacrament and stimulates us to unite ourselves to Him in a spiritual communion. It is, accordingly, eminently in harmony with the worship which we owe Him in spirit and truth ... " 
-Post-Conciliar (Vatican II) Document, S.CD.W. 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Right to Life AMDG JMJ 
EUCHARISTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
Friday: Lady Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11 :)0 Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4:15. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45) Monday· beginning at 11 :30pm (following 11 :OOpm Mass) through Tuesday at 10:00pm (Ending with Benediction at 9:45-10:00) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 1, 2000 
Group attacks Bradley 
Associated Press 
• Organization's ad criticizes methods of finance 
WASHINGTON 
A Ne,.v Jersey anti-tax group with a history of opposition to Democrat Bill Bradley is run­ning ads that criticize him on campaign fin an cc reform ­even as the group uses a financing provision t h a t allows it to keep its contribu­tors secn~t. 
Hands Across New Jersey refuses to say who is paying for tbe ads, which have run for a week in New Hampshire. The group is considering run­ning them in other states with upcoming primaries. 
The law does not require that outside groups disdose contributors as long as the ads stop short of explicitly advocat­ing a candidate's election or defeat. 
"Let us be the example of why these laws should be changed," said John Sheridan. spokesman for Hands Across New Jersey. "If they don't change [the law], they will be the victims of these sorts of ads in the future. and they will feel as helpless as the public does in trying to bring about change." 
Asked if it was hypocritical to advocate change while exploiting what is widely viewed as a loophole in the campaign finance law, Sheridan said: "It is hypocriti­cal." 
The ad in question shows three irate New Jersey resi­dents sitting around a kitchen table accusing Bradley ol' a variety of campaign financing misdeeds. including arranging lavors for spcdal interest con­tributors. 
The advertisement also says Bradley had to return a cam­paign contribution from an insurance company and attempted to intervene with the Commerce Department on behalf of a donor. The Bradley camp denied all wrongdoing, saying Bradley returned a con­tributi on from Prudential Insurance Co. because it was raised using corporate facili­ties, which is illegal. 

Hands Across New Jersey was begun in 1990 to protest a large tax increase pushed through the New JArsey Legislature by then-Gov. Jim rlorio. 13radley nearly lost his bid for re-election that year, due partly to Floria's tax hike and the group's attacks, even though he was running against a virtual unknown Republican Christine Todd Whitman, now the state's gov­ernor. 
Rut in 1996, the group split, partly over whether it should endorse then-Rep. Dick Zimmer, who unsucccssl'ully challenged Democratic Sen. Robert Torricelli. Ousted board members charged that those who remained were tying the group too closely to Whitm1111 and the Republican Party. 
"l got tired of battling off wave after wave of Republican infiltrators," said John Budzash. the group's foundfw. 
Budzash and Ray Babecki, one of the ousted board mem­bers, say the group's New Hampshire ads are probably backed by money from Republicans worried about facing Bradley in November. 
"Wherever Bradley goes, they want to knock him, to make sure [Al] Gore wins," Budzash said. 
Sheridan, who appears in the ad, said his group has 1,300 dues-paying members and a list of 90,000 potential supporters. Ile said he has no idea whether donors are Republicans, Democrats or Libertarians, as he is. 
"I don't know who sent the money," he said. "I don't ask the membership their party afiiliation." 
lie said contributions range from hundreds to thousands of dollars and added that he didn't know the politics of even largt~ donors. 
I ie said the group is target­ing Bradley because it is famil­iar with his rncord, even though Vice President Gore has had well-publicized ques­tions about his record on cam­paign finance. 
GOP offers bigger marriage tax cut 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Aiming for a llouse vote prior to Valentine's Day, Republicans proposed a 10-year, $182 bil­lion remedy Monday to the "marriage 
penalty" that makes 25 million two-income couples pay higher taxes than if they were single. 

The legis-Archer lation is f'our times as costly as a plan offered by President Clinton, mainly because it would enlarge the bottom 15 percent income I.ax rate to ensure a tax cut for couples with higher incomes and those who itmnizc deductions. Clinton's measure focuses on couples who take the standard tax deduction. 
Although the two sides differ in approach, addressing tho marriage penalty is popular among Democrats and Republicans alike and stands a better-than-even chance of becoming law despite the jock­eying for political advantage that frequently overshadows election-year legislation. 
"The American people sup­port this. representatives and senators of both parties sup­port this, so there's no excuse why this shouldn't be done this year," House Ways and Means 
Committee  Chairman  Bill  
Archer,  R-Texas,  told  
reporters.  

!louse Hepublican leaders have decided not to pursue a repeat of' last year's giant $792 billion tax cut that was vetoed by Clinton, preferring to break it into a seri1~s or popular, 
smaller tax-relief bills more difficult for Democrats to oppose. 
WhitH House officials say the president's support will depend on how the GOP balances pro­jected budget surpluses among the overall priorities of Social Security, Medicare, govern­ment spending, debt repay­ment and tax cuts. 
"It's going to depend on the entire picture," said Clinton spokesman Jake SiPwert. "It's difficult to address these items in isolation." 
The Trnasury Department estimates thal 25 million mar­ried couplos pay highor income taxes than if they were single, mainly when both spouses have jobs. The tax strikes most often when the higher-earning spouse makes between $20,000 and $75,000 in adjusted gross income a year, according lo the Congressional Budget Office, but some single-earner house­holds actually receive a mar­
riage bonus. 
The GOP bill would reduce government. rev en uc by $182.3 billion over 10 years, or 10 percent of the project­ed $1.9 tril­lion surplus not ear­marked for Social s,~curity. 
It would 
"The American people support this, representi­tives and senators ofboth parties support this, so there's no excuse why this shouldn't be done." 
Bill Archer 
U.S. Rep., R-Texas 
gradually raise the lowest 15 percent income tax bracket so that it applies to more income for married couples. 
llad that change been in place this year. married cou­ples would have paid tlrn low­est income~ tax rate on their first $52,500 of income, com­pared to $43,850 under cur­rent law. It would be of no ben­efit, however, to the millions of middle-and lower-income cou­ples who already pay taxes at only the 15 percent rate. 
Two other GOP provisions are similar to those proposed by Clinton, who last week out­lined a 10-year. $45 billion plan to fix the marriage penal­ty. 
House Republicans would increase the standard income tax deduction for married cou­ples to twice that for single tax filers beginning in 2001. If it were the law now, that would translate into a standard deduction of $8,800 instead of $7,351 for couples who don't iti>mize. 
The GOP bill also would increase by $2,000 the income cutoff for lower-income couples who claim the earned income tax credit, an item proposed by Clinton and also included by Republicans in their larger tax 
cut last year. 
The Ways and Means Committee is scheduled to consider the bill Wednesday, with a House floor V O t e planned prior to Valentine's Day, Feb. 14. 
The measure's fate in the Senate is uncertain. Partly because of Senate rules and partly because of philosophical dilforences, Senate Republicans arc divided on the llouse approach of passing a series of smaller tax cuts rather than one large tax rnlief package. 


Mestrovic Studio Gallery 
Memorial ceremony lead by Cambodian Buddhist Monks. 
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK 
Where do you see yourself this summer? Choose A or B 
A. Sharing a trail with a mountain B. Commuting in bumper to goat as you hike through snow bumper trafic? rnpped glacier peaks? 
A. Meeting your new best friend B. Spending the summer under the "Big Sky" of Montana? with the same old crowd? 
A. Watching millions of stars & B. Spending hot & humid the northern lights on a clear, summer nights next to cool, August night? an air conditioner? 
If you answered "A" to any of the above, choose a summer in the "Last Best Place". St. Mary Lodge & Resort (Glacier Park's finest) 
We will be interviewing on campus February 2nd for our 2000 summer season. Call (800) 368-3689 today to schedule an interview. 
Ceremony to Remember the Dead of Cambodia 
father Martin Nguyen of the Notre Dame Art, Department will offer reflections 
from the Christian tradition. 
Free and open to the pn~!ic. 
Th~y,rebruary 1, 5:00 PM atthe Snite MBSeum .. 
.:,.J~;!{Sra:11·•···•6ii•4"'ll3;.fa:r:fuore•i'rifDIQ\tlliea:~l~Y····.•· 
Tuesday, February 1, 2000 The Ohsenier . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Death penalty suspended in Illinois 
A~'.iiociated Pres:­
CHICAGO 
c;o\. Ceorg!' Ryan took tlw unprPcedented stPp Monday ~Jf putting all exrcutions on hold m Illinois, which uver the past two dPcades has !'recd more inmatr,s from drath row ­13 -than it has put to 
d,,ath. 
"There is no margin for !'rror when it COffiHS LU 
putting a person to death," Llw H!'publira.n govPrnor said. "Until I can be sure that everyone sen­tenced tu death in Illinois is truly guilty -until I r,an bP s~re with moral certainty that no innocent man or woman is f'aciug a lethal i~jm·,:ion -no one will mPet that 
fat('. 
Hyan called the death penalty svstem "fraught with ('rror" and said he will appoint a committ()C to help revamp it. . 
lllinois bernnrns the first of the 38 states with the death penalty to issue a moratorium on execu­tions whilci the system is exam­ined. 
Thirteen inmates have br,en released from Illinois' death row since 1987, exposing what critics say are serious !laws in the crim­inal justice syst1m1 and leading to calls for a moratorium. 
In most of those cases, prose­cutors acknowledged they had the wrong man after they were confronted with D'.'JA evidence, new witnesses or confessions from othnrs. In other cases. the inmates' convictions were thrown out on appral and prosecutors harn vet to purswi a retrial. 
Hvan. who insisted he remains 
a s~1pportm of' capital punish­
nrnnt, said the committee will 
review tlw use of' jailhouse inl'or-mants. lie also pointed out that unqualified defense attorneys have handled some death row cases; some were eventually dis­barred. 

Illinois has ,,xeeutecl 12 pPoplo sincA the death penalty was rein­stated in 1977, and even critics of the svstPm haw~ not suggested any of them were innocent. 
Death penalty foes -including lawyers who represe)1t the nea_r­ly 160 dPath row inmates m Illinois -applauded the gover­nor's decision. Most uf those on Tllinois' death row arr black and Hispanic. . . 
"It's clear that rac1sm 1s ram­pant in th,, system, and I don't know what they're going to do to cure that," said Tim Gabrielsen, a public defender who handles death penalty cases. 
One of the people Gabrielsen has defended is Rolando Cruz, who was twice convicted of the 1983 rape and murder of a 10­year-old girl in the Chicago sub­urb of NapervillP,. Cruz spent nearly a decade on death row before he was acquitted. Seven prosecutors and law officers were later charged with 
like the rule that you cannot trust 
the system," Gabrielsen .said. 
\'\'hen asked whether the panel 
might lead to the abolition of the 
death penalty in Illinois, the gov­
ern or said he is kei>ping all 
options open. 
He did not set a deadline for 
thi• investigation, saying he did 
not want the panel to be rushed, 
since he is responsible for send­
ing inmates to their death. "J am 
the fellow who has to make the 
ultimate decision," he said. 
Nebraska considered a similar 
halt to executions last yrar. But a 
moratorium passed by the legis­
lature was vetoed by the gover­
nor. 
The only other state where 
more death row inmates have 
been exoncrat(1d is Florida, 
where 18 have been freed from 
death row and 44 executed. But 
there has been little talk of a · moratorium there. 
"In florida, the issue of execut­
ing the innocent is a non-issue," 
said Micha.el Radelet, a 
University of Florida sociology 
professor who has written extcn­
sivdy on the death penalty. 'Tm 
not aware of 
any legislator 
lying and fabri­who has
'There is no margin for 
cating evidence expressed any against Cruz; interest at all
error when it comes to all seven were putting a person to in learning cleared. from these
death."
In another · blunders." noteworthy The notion case, Anthony George Ryan that Illinois 
Porter spent 15 governor, Illinois cannot guar­
years on death row -once coming within two davs of being executed ­before i college journalism class proved his innocence. Porter was released last year. 
Within the past month, prose­cutors dropped charges against a former Chica.go police ollicer who was convicted and sentenced to die based on the word of a ja.il­house informant. 
"In Illinois, it's looking more 
antee that an 
innocent per­
son would not be put to death even led the state Supreme Court's chief justice, Moses Harrison II, to call the Illinois law unconstitutional. 
Nearly a year ago, Harrison said the governor had the power to declare a moratorium. But after Porter's release last February, Ryan sa.id he saw no need for a moratorium or a "knee-jerk reaction." 

College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
The College of Arts and Letters Invites Student Nomiriations for Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize_approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have · taught at least five years are eligible. . 
Take advantage ot'this opportunity to have a voice in the selecti~n of these recipients by nominating one of your outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Dian Murray, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, February 7 
FDA approves digital mammograms 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The nation's first digital mammograms -computer­ized breast X-rays to hunt breast cancer -were approved by the govern­ment Monday. 
Digital mammograms appear as good as -but not better than -regular mam­mograms in detecting breast cancer, the Food and Drug Administration cautioned. 
But the new digital mam­mography machine, GE Medical Inc.'s Senographe 2000D, does offer potential advantages 
foolproof. Scientists have long hoped that computeriz­ing mammograms could improve thr images. 
The. FDA approved essen­tially a first step in digital mammography, cautioned radiologic devices chief Dr. Dan Schultz. 
In studies of 625 women, a printout of the mammogram from the digital machine was as effective in detecting breast cancer as standard film mammograms, he said. 
From a woman's point of view, digital mammograms are performed like tradi­tional mammograms -_the image just i s n ' t 
to regular 
"This will open a new era recorded
film X-ra.ys: 
on film.
in mammographic 
digital 
And radi­
mammo­detection of breast 
,, ologists 
grams can 
cance,: read those 
be stored printoutselectroni­just as 
callv so Dr. Daniel Kopans 
they read film~ aren't director of breast imaging, standard lost, adjust­
Massachusetts General Hospital mammo­
ed for under-or o~erexposure with'out need­ing another X-ray, and sent electronically to specialists worldwide for consultation. 
Better, it is a long-awaited first step in using computers in even more sophisticated ways to better detect breast cancer, said Dr. Daniel Kopans, director of breast imaging at Massachusetts General Hospital, who has helped study the system. 
"This will open a new era in mammographic detection of breast cancer," he said, describing a list of research that digital equipment will enable to move forward. "This is the first step and I've got my fingers crossed all these things are going to pan out. This gives us the opportunity" to try. 
American women undergo some 30 million mammo­grams every year. The breast X-ray is the gold standard in detecting breast cancer, particularly early tumors. 
But mammograms are not grams. 
To uti­
lize the machine's full digital 
capabilities, doctors would­
n't need a printout -ideal­
ly, they could check a com­
puterized image on a vid~o 
monitor. But the FDA did 
not approve this ideal "soft 
copy" digital mammogram 
-just the printout version 
-because GE Medical has 
not yet studied whether 
reading from the video 
screen is as accurate, 
Schultz explained. 
If that full digital capabili­
ty is realized, doctors one 
day could have a greater 
range to manipulate and 
improve the breast scans, he 
said. For example, if one 
part of a woman's breast 
were particularly dense, the 
computer might compensate 
to better check that spot. 
Using digital equipment 
also will enable studies of whether injecting dyes into the breast or devising com­. puter-generated images of breast tissue from different angles could better detect 
tumors, Kopans said. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 OBSERVER Tuesday, February 1, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
·P.O. Bux Q. Notre Dame, JN 4G556 024 Sourh D111ing H.11, Notte Dome, lN 4655(, 
EDil'OR IN Cll!LF Michelle Krupa 
MJ\NA(;JNG EunoR liusINESS MANAGER 
M. Shannon Ryan David Rogero 
MST. M.AN/\GING ED1TO!l LJura Pccdle 
NEW; EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen Sronr; Em roR: Brian Kessler 
Sr.ENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT M.\Ry's EDITOR: 1".orcen Gille,pie PHOTO Eori'oR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan lnu 
AD DESIGN f.ll\..'lAG£R: Bret 1-ludat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEil ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Ku~hto 
CONTROLLER: Timmhy L,me GRAl'HlCS EDITOR: Joe Mnel\er 
COtrrAtT Us 
OrnCE Mo\NAGEKIGc,rRAL lNPO..............GJ!-7471 fl'.,X............. ................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.e<lu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE...................·.....................631-5313 NEWS.............. .................. 631-5323 observer.obsnews. J.@nd.edu V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.spam. l@nd.edu SCENE.. .....................................................631-4540 observer.scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S ............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.......................................................631-8767 SYSTUtS/W£B AnMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONUME 
Visit our Web site ar http.·J!obmver. nd edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spom, feacures and opinion columns. as well as canoons. reviews and breaking news 
_from che Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music fOr
weather for up-m-rhe 
minute forecasrs 
weekly stcrdenr reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares ofprim ads 
cial carnpus mverage 
archives co search for 
about The Observer 
articles published aner 
to meec the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the rndependent. daily newspaper published in prinr and online by the srudems of the UniversiryofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comem, including advertisements, is no, governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insrirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The new• is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rne opinion of the majority ofthe Edicor in Chief, Managit1g Editor, Assisram Managing Editor and departmem editors. Commentaries, lerters and column.s present the vlews ofthe authors and 110\ necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Vicwpoim space is availalik re, all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and mmt inclurle c.:ontact information. 
Questions regardi>ig Obstrver poluie, choutd be d,mt­ed to Eduor in Cf11eJMtehelle Krupa. 
DILBERT 
I KNOW I COULD EARN MORE MONEY AT ANOTHER COMPANY. 
EDITORIAL 
Sophomore Sibs Weekend cancellation unfair, unfounded 
The.ror.ent caneellntion or Sophomore Sibs Weokend by "equal opportunity lender" when it comes to considering the director of Student Activities Joe Cassidy is unfortunate, distance people travel to visit, whether it's for four years or a unl'air and unfounded. weekend. 
The several reasons Cassidy cited for the cancellation of the Another reason Cassidy cited was low attendance. growing tra<lilion are rife with hypocrisy, parLicularly the According to that logic, we should cancel most of ~ur guest argumPnts that families are too small or live too far away. lectures, morn than half' of our sporting evcuts and almost 
Despite the nutiomd lrcnd iu decreasing family size, more anything SUB orchcstratP-s. Failure to fill an expected atten­students than not have siblings, and it is disingenuous to base dance quota is not a legitimate reason to cancPI an event the decision to cancel a local, campus rwent on a national Neither is the concern for underage drinking. lf Cassidy statistic. and the administration are so c;onccrned about underage 
The average number of siblings stmlenls ar.tuaHy havP. drinking by visiting siblings. maybe they shoulrl r:onsider ori­however, is immaterial in discussing whether or not such sib­enting their efforts toward a more cffer.tirn solution to the lings should be able to visit during an organized weekend. stu<lent underag1i drinking that is already here. "[T!he likelihoorl that a sophomore student woulct have an Eurh of the conc<'rns Cassidy cited about Sophomore Sibs eligible sibling in the right age [middle school] is very small," could have bP.en easily remedied; il is absolutely absurd to said Cassidy. There is no "right" age to visit. a brother nr sis­cancel the event without exploring and testing options for ter at \lntre Dame. Limiting the age group to middle school is improvement. If Student Activities rnally cared about the unfair to siblings younger and older than this age and creates probJems with this event., it would solve them. Such a rash an elitist attitude that they need to be the "right" age and and unjustified decision is just one more item to add to the somehow don't belong if they are not. swelling list of ways administrators let students down. 
It is also wrong to base, in part, the decision to cancel Kudos is in order to members of the Class of 2002, howev­Sophomore Sibs on the notion siblings do not. have equal er, for taking a strong stand in their appeal to Cassidy's deci­opportunity to attend because of travel distance. Does the sion last semester. Their efforts to fight for tradition and University cancel Parents Weekend during football season or classmates are to be -commended and celebrated. By voicing Junior Parents Weekend because some families live too far their concerns, thP-y defended the right to be heard in the away? No. Does the admissions office decide who is admitted atmosphere of petty dictatorship that all too often guides the based on where they are from and whether or not they can way decisions are made on this campus. afford to travel? No. This University -is definitely not an 
Call for Pope to resign is wrong 
On Thursday, Mr. Gary Caruso took a fairly routine act by the Chinese government and usod it to fashion a broad indictment of Pope John Paul II. Indeed. Mr. Caruso even asks for the Pope's retirement! 
These latest appointments of Catholic bishops by China are merely the latest shots in a long-drawn battle over control of organized reli­gion in China. Tho Chinese government has a policy of maintaining control over religions. Tho most famous of these government­appointed religious leadP-rs are the anti~Lamas routinely appointed as foils to the real Dalai Lama. Witness also the allergy of the Chinese government to the Falun Gong movement. So, appointment of Chinese bishops not recognized by the Vatican should not be seen as any sign of weukness on the part of our Pope. The Chinese gov­ernment will do this as a matter of policy no matter who is Pope. The only way to !'or this to stop is with a major restructuring of the Chinese government. 
What's more, Mr. Caruso goes on to say that these appointments threaten tlw very survival of Catholicism in all of Asia. In so doing, he makes the common error in thinking that China is Asia and that Asia is China. He also forgets that the vast majority of Catholics in Asia are in the Philippines. Catholicism will go on vP-ry nicely in Asia with or without Chinese intervention. 
Pope John Paul has done more than any Pope to make the Catholic Church a truly universal Church. He should not be judged on the basis of extremely weak extrapolations based on one' news item. 
Luis F. Razon '81, '85 January 3 I, 2000 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
We were left 
in the cold 
lam writing this letter at 3 a.m. Ijust got bark from Saint Mary's College. The only explanation I have for why it took me an hour to get back home is that the damn shuttle bus stopped early. Three Zahm guys, a Sorin guy, a Dillon guy, and I walked back through the falling snow, driving winds and arctic temperatures. 
On the way back, we met a seemingly kind Saint Mary's College security patrolman who informed us politely that •,,ve were dedicated indi­viduals. What the hell! Does he think that a bunch of guys just cler:ided to take a stroll through hellish weather at two in the morning? 
Then, after eating anotlrnr doughnut. he informed us that he couldn't give us a ride of one block because he was only allowed to give Saint Mary's students rides. Then, he proceeded to drive in front of us at an obnoxiously slow speed, leaving just ,enough room so that we couldn't hang on to the bumper. So, all this having been said, I'm cold and wet and want to know why Transpo thinks that it can mess with the shuttle schedules on a whim. If anybody has an answer, pray tell. 
Jacob T. Rodenbiker Freshman, Keenan Hall January .'10, 2000 
.;
MAYBE THE COFFEE !: 
NO, I 
1$ GOOD AND YOU 
DON'T
i 
THIS
ENJOY WATCHING ] 
THINK
,., 
COFFEE
THE ANTICS OF · u, ~ 
THAT'$... 
, 
IS GOOD.
FEEBLE, UNAWARE •
...• 
L05EP-5. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"God is dead." -Friedrich Nietzsche "Neitz.w:he is dead" -God 
$een on popular bumper sticker 
-----~-------------~------------·---.-------------------~-------------------.., 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE li1esday, February I, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students respond to atheist's charge 
'Uninformed atheism is perhaps the most blind faith of all' 
At tlw risk of sounding arrogant. 1would like lo address -and perhaps mrrect -Mike Dillon for lhr little verbal tit he had over Elizabeth Bauer's comments. While I am not a devoted reader of The Observer, and therefore cannot claim that I read the words that gcneralml his response, I do have a few points to make with rugard to his own. ll is proper that I do so, because the nature or the comments I would like to address is very much a gcmoral nne. 
I fully respect the l'acl that l'aith is a choice. When all data has bP.en examined. it is true that there is no conclusive evidencH that God does exist. This, of coursH, assumes a traditional view of God. Whether llrnrn an~ "solid facts" is left to question. but it is conclusive evidence that both modHrn scienee and theology SP.em to lack. llowrwor. lel me also extend vour narrow intuition to a range of more consisten­<:v, as this daim nf yours is also true for the oppo­site: There is no conclusivn evidence that God does nol exist. 
tr you did some research, you might conveniently rind that there are proofs in numerous disciplines that "disprove" the existence of God. Let me inform vou. however, that there also exist similar proofs of Just as much credulity that do the opposite, and "prove" the existence of God. In fact, what are con­sidered the most brilliant minds in the history of mankind often diffenid in opinion with regard to this matter. Among the famous "believers" was Sir Isaac Newton. devoted philosopher/scientist with an insatiable appetite for "proof' in his studies of the universe. I mention this, because it seems that there is a hint of hubris in your letter and would like to suggest a mon\ balanced perspective. Namely, if Newton believed that the intricate order of the Universe-which he was actively involved in discover­ing-was suggestive of the existence of God, I'm not sure that Elizabeth Rauer's opinion can really be dismissed as sheer 'nonsense.' 
or course, I will not deny that the opposite view was held by many such brilliant minds in the history of mankind. It is not my intent to make a case for the existence of God, nor is it mv intention to defend or dismiss either opinion. My attempt is none other than one uf ob,icrtivity. As a reader, I fear that your rnsponse was much too impassioned to hold any weight Partly because most people who do believe in Uw traditional Christian God do not hold the sim­plistic view that God "lets all [of these) children suf­for and die everyday." And "needlessly," I might add. 
Also, philosophically, it does not follow that there is no God if things that may be construed as "nega­tive" occur in the world's social contexts. If your expEffiences al Harvard have led you to believe that surh a conclusion does necessarily follow, then I'd be inclined to think that your visit to "America's Oldest University" was not a very fruitful one. Not because you don't agrne with me, but because you fail to see that there are more possibilities than those that you have enumerated. 
I fnel I speak for a significant number of students when I say that I'm not sun~ that your comments in Monday's paper escape the realm of the "silly and nonsensical." l'd also like to apologize to the reader for what may be considered a "simplistic" treatment ol' tlrn subject matter, as it is, no doubt, more corn­phix than I have had the spac'.e tn digr.iss upon. 
Lastly. I openly defend and thank Elizabeth Bauer for expressing her opinion as she has the right to do. Whih• Mikn Dillon both dismissed it as "simple" and "mindless." and implied that it was "irrational," I must admit. that I am cliwply curious about t"hti comments that inspirnd a rnsponse infused with such llagranl hypocrisy. 
It is no lin that in Urn wide spnctrurn of religion, tlrnrn art\ l11't1-1n individuals who do nnt scwk to enlighten t lwmselves with regard to the nalurt) of tl1e Vi\ry beliefs that tlwy choose to contend with. 
A few WC1rds of advice to Mike: Uninformed athe­
ism is perhaps the most blind faith of all. 
Kelly Fabrega 
Sophomore, Welsh F.11nily Hall 
January 31, 2000 
Don't condemn other's beliefs 
Today I read a letter from a person claiming that God does not exist. Contrary to what usually happens, I am NOT writing to condemn that person's view. I am also not writing to agree with him, because I per­sonally do believe in God. The reason I am writing, is in hopes that perhaps I can cut off the probably near 20 letters, in utter disgust nf Mr. Dillon's view. 
When did we get so judgmental? Last week some­one expressed the opinion that pre-marital sex is okay. and was promptly responded to with letters claiming he doesn't belong hern. Today someone wrote a letter about not believing in God. I assure you that if Tll!S letter didn't make the paper, then one telling him about how v,rong he is did. There are all types of religion at this school. Protestants, Jews, Muslims and any religion you can think of are repre­sented. We don't express views of disgust to them, so why, are there 20 people writing letters as I speak, condemning views of an Atheist? 
To last weeks' author, does Mr. Dillon nnt "belong" because we're a Catholic-affiliated school and he doesn't believe in God? Do the Jewish people here not "belong," because they don't worship Jesus as we do? The answer of course, is no, because if we as individ­uals told everyone who doesn't have the same views we do, ihat they don't belong around us, I assure you, we'd be awfully lonely. Different opinions make the world interesting. 
If you disagree with someone's opinion, write in and tell everyone about it! But please, let's stop telling people how totally wrong they are, and how they don't belong here because they have a different opinion. Have the "right" opinion, have the "wrong" opinion, but for God sake, have an opinion and don't be afraid to share it with us all, for rear of being torn apart by judgmental people. On that note, Mr. Dillon, I don't agree with you, I do believe in God, but thank you for not being to scared to tell people what you think. 
Keith Anderson 
Sophomore, Keenan Hall January 31, 2000 
'Problem of Evil' is not sufficient to challenge the Christian idea of God 
This letter responds to Mike Dillon's statements on January 31, 2000 regarding God and our notions about Hirn. Briefly, Mike weighed in on the occasional debate on premarital sex with the typical individualist position of mutual respect for opinions, and then invoked images of suffering and deprivations, attempting to prove a God non-existent. 
Mike makes some valid points. The problem of evil in the world has caused considerable debate since at least the second century A.D. It has been difficult for people to accept a good God who, though being omnipotent, allows evil. I would, however, redirect Mike's question. The God that most persons think of when they make this evils-exist-thus-no-God theory is not the same one whom Christians believe to have been incarnated in the person ofJesus Christ. The sort of God these people hold as their paradigm is not one that any sane person would wish to have over for lunch; such a god is entirely dominating, wilful, and selfish. It does, in fact, remind us of the pagan prede­cessors to Christian belief. If such a God did exist, Mr. Dillon would not want Him to. 
The Christian God is strange. We hold a God high who came down as low as it is possible for God to be-in human form. Thomas Aquinas holds humanity as the lowest among rational creatures; our lives are inherently full of the suffering that Mike wishes to do away with by means of the god he doesn't believe in. I would venture to say that I don't believe in God either, if He is as Mike would have us believe; rather, He is compassionate enough to bear with humanity in all of its foibles, sins, and sufferings so much so that He let us crucify Him as the result of these evils we perpetrate. God's message to us is one of absolute acceptance, shown fully on the cross, allowing even our worst evil while still loving us. We commit evil, the nature of our existence inflicts the rest, and this strange God of ours loves us anyway, forgiving us even when we crucify Him. 
What are we to think of such a God? Augustine says that our "hearts are restless until they rest in Him." God's assured and purposeful love asks (not demands) only to be fully accepted, and in consequence to turn our lives in a radically different-oriented direction. A daring direction in which premarital sex and the rest matter far more than anyone's opinion if we are to make a response to the divinely-originated love. 
Nathaniel Hannan Sophomore, Dillon Hall January 31. 2000 
Free Will is worth the price of evil on Earth 
Mike Dillon humored readers of the Observer on Jan. 31 with a misguided attempt to attack the Christian values of Elizabeth Bauer, who had written, as Catholic doctrine teaches, that sex should wait for marriage. Mike's response was that people can do as they please, because there is no God. 
Mike, your attack on the existence of God doesn't seem to have been thought through with any particu­lar care. In fact, it's limited to what has been called the "problem of evil," that is, the observation that an all-powerful. all-good God would not allow people to sustain harm, but nonetheless "children suffer and die everyday ... billions of people suffer, starve and die needlessly." Tbe conclusion you draw is ihat there can be no God -but you ov.irstep Urn bounds ot' rational philusophy in an attempt to use logic to justi­fy what are obviously just your personal convictions. As a matter of fact, the most one can hope to show in a consideration of the problem of evil is either that God is not omnipotent.or that Ile is not omnibenevo­lent. In lhe theology of the ancient Greeks, for instance, it was easy to identify the suffering one saw in the world as the consequence of the wrath, jeal­ousy, or carelessness of one or more of the gods ­and the problem was solved. 
For Christians. the problem is somewhat more com­plicatnd, but capable philosophers and theologians since Sl. Augustine have been grappling with it and, for the most part, getting the best of it. The most common defense of Christian theology, very simply put, is that, faced with the choice of controlling every­thing Himself or allowing people free will, God took the latter option, even though it carried with it the consequence that people might use their free will to do evil. Even a world with some evil in it is better than a world with no free will, because we have the ability to choose God over evil. This isn't a proof of the existence of God, but it is a very adequate defense against your attempt to disprove Him. 
So it surprises me, Mike, that you would base your remarkably insensitive attack on Elizabeth Bauer's values upon a comparatively weak disproof of the existence of God. In fact, vou seem to take the atheis­tic position for granted, a;1d theism as a bizarre delu­sion -perhaps you picked up this sophisticated post­modernism at Harvard University, a name you took particular care to drop. Perhaps it's just east-coast elitism. In any event, Mike, you would be well-advised to heed the very warning you gave Elizabeth: Please think rationally before inserting simple, mindless opinions into our newspaper. 
Alan M. Robinson 
Sophomore, Knott Hall 
January 31. 2000 

CONCERT REVIEW 
Umphrey's returns to State Theatre 
By DA VE ClARK 
Sc.nc M L1Si~ Critic 
For those ·wlrn believe that nothing exciting ever happens in South Bend on the weekends. Umphrey·s Mr.Gt'e has two \Vords -you're wrong. Something very exciting happened on Friday night at the Stair, Theatre. After a two-Setlist year hiatus from the recently 
. 
All In Time r e o p c n e d venue,

. 
Prowler 


Umphrcy's
. Front Porch 
M c G e e 
. Der Bluten Kat returned and presented the
. Brown-Eyed Girl/ 
students and 
Punk Tease locals with 
one of the
. Fool In the Rain 
best perfor­
. Mamu 
mances of the 
. 
Jose band's histo­ry. While that

. 
Slacker 

mav sound 

. 
All Night Long lik~ a broad superlative,


. Phil's Farm 
there are 
. Billy Jean 
manv factors 
. 
Fussy Dutchman to take into considera­

. 
Pick Up the Piece 

tion. 

• 
a-Bert First, it is important to


. Hangover 
consider what 
. 2X2 
has happened 
. 
Lively Up Yourself and what the band has

. 
All Things Ninja 


achieved in 
. Dr. Didj the two years since their
. Late in the Evening 
last appear­
ance at the State. Back in 1998 Umphrey's McGee was a frnshly hatc,hed campus band from Notre Oame which impressed many people by playing such a large venue so early in its career. That was then. and now Umphrey·s McG!'e has two albums uud,~r lls belt along with many appearances in areas such as Milwaukee. Kalamazoo, Madison, Indian,tpolis. Ann Arbor, Cincinnati and their most frt>quent slop. Chicago. Playing almost 80 shows a year has brought the band a couplr, of succoss­[ul east coast jaunts with stops in Now York. Buffalo, Boston. Montreal, Pittsburgh and Burlington. Vt. Their most recent album, Songs for Older Wonrnn was ranked number 46th in JamBands.rorn's top 50 albums of thr, Y(!ar. With the momentum on their side. it seemr.d that their rnturn to the State' Theatrr would be a fitting way to nlllect on the pasl lwo yr,ars while bringing their music up to a rww level as lhey look to the future. 
As there was some historical signifi­cance, tlrnre was also a presence of a potent inlangiblr. -the atmosphere within the building. For those who have never been to the rn-openod State Theatre.. its enormous size. posh decor. and old-style nostalgia blend with plentiful bar availability, and wcll-remodoled seating and dancn areas to cnrntr. what is undoubtedly thP best place to see a concert in South Bend. 
The crowd was a mix of people, many or whom came to see Umphrey's McGee, familiar with what they would see, and many of whom came to enjoy the State Theatre, having little idea what Umphrey·s McGee was all about. What was probably most important about the crowd was its size. Late in the fwening lhr, crowd spilled deep into the upper level seating areas and balconies creating one or the largest crowds ever at an Umphrey's McGee show. The crowd's size lent itself to high energy and eager response to the music. 
The element that completed the recipe for suc,h a great show was of c,ourse. the music. The band opened up early, having limited playing time. and played one long set. The band opened with old familiars like "All In Time" and "Front Porch," intermin­gled a new song called "Prowler" which explored Latino inspiration along with !'lowing melodies congruent with tlrn Umphrey's sound. With the special inclusion of guest saxophonists Bich Colrnn and John Wiseman. the band brought out many improvisation­al jazz tlwmes familiar to inlluencr,s such as John Coltranr, and Miles Davis, along with funk sounds likened to the Mr,tc-rs and Karl Denson's Tiny Universe. 

An amusing treat was the tease of Van Morrison's "Brown-Eyed Girl" whic,h lr,d into the Lod Zeppelin clas­sic. "Fool in the Hain." Othr,r songs the band covered which made the "high­light reel" wr.re Michael Jackson's "Billy Jean", Lionel llic,hir,'s "All Night Long." The Average White Band's "Pick Up the Piece," Galactic's "Church." and Paul Simon's "Latn in the Evnning" (perfect with horns). 
The band's newer original's such as "Q-Bert," Fussy Dutchman" and "Mamu" kept the music's balance of experimentation and exploration with­in th11 bounds that Umphrey's McGee likes: intricate yet fluid. It seemed from an audience standpoint that the band was having fun, especially with their special guests. Only in cPrtain rare occasions did one instrument seem overpowering and there were almost no technical flaws from the musicians or technicians. One draw­back was that the band ·s performance was cut off at a relatively early 12:15 a.m. 
By the end of the show. it was undoubtedly that the elements which make a great concert had fallen together perfectly and energy was in the air. Broad smiles amid the crowd spoke loud and clear: "Something exciting is going on." 
UPCOMING CONCERTS 
South Bend 
Transoms, Doc Brown Benchwarmers Feb. Ia Butterfly Effect & American scandard 
Indianapolis 
Paula Cole Yo9ue Theatre Feb. 29 Fiona Apple Murat Theatre Mar. 7 
Chicago 
Cowboy Junkies Park West Feb.4 Samples House of Blues Feb. 4 Macy Gray House of Blues Feb. 9 Tonic Double Door Feb. 19 Smashmouth Araaon Feb. 20 Pretenders Riviera Theatre Feb. 25•20 Fiona Apple Riviera Theatre Mar. 11 
Courcesy of ticketmaster.com 
NEW RELEASES 
Today 
Bernard Bu11er -Friends & Lovers Lo FtdeH1y Alls1:ars -On 1he Floor a11he Bou1tque Norphine·-The Ni9ht Michael Penn -MP4 The Rockfords -The Rockfords Snoop Doss -Snoop D099 Presenis ihe Easistdaz Tina Turner -Twenty Four Seven Yunastar -Throwed Yuna Playa 
February S 
Sarah -Cracknell -LipsHde Ghostface Hillah • Supreme CUen1ele Joni Ni1chell -Bo1h Sides Now Sekoe Sundiata .. Lon9s1ory Short 
Cources-, of wallof sound.com 
j 

Tuesday, february I , 2000 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Ani gets lucky with No. 13 
By LISA BRUNO 
~Lene \1t1sic CrittL 
Ovl'r th<' past t1m years.. Ani Difranco hns r<'lPased ! 3 S!'lf'-produr.P.d albums on her label. 11ightcous Babe• HPrnrds. I laving her own label affords Ani th(' opportunity to do what she wants thf' way slrn wants it. Fans reap thn ultimatl' benefits of this because Ani always comes with something new, something fresh a.nd something real. 
J\ni Difrance 

One is driven then to the question. is them anything Ani can't do? Probably not and sh~ proves this on her third ­yes, third -release of 1999. To The Teeth. On these 13 tracks. Ani plays r,lectric, acoustic guitar, bass, drums, piano and banjo.. With her trademark songwriting. Ani continues to amaze fans and critics alike with her lyrical wizardry. 
To The Teeth offers an eclectic mix of sounds and lyrics. In the anticipated Ani style, she goes from social awareness to 
replay-worthy poetically driven songs. 
Some of" the songs may provo unsuitable 
to first time Ani listeners and perhaps 
even longtime fans. The Ani of yester­
day, with just her guitar guiding her 
through Pach song. has taken second 

stage. This album continues on the 
musically experimental path started in 
Little Plastic Castle, released in 1998. 
and Up Gp Up Up Up Up, released in 
1999. As Lhe tracks continue on this 
record. they becomfl more daring and 
innovative. When the play button is 
pressed, watch out because something 
great and unexpected lies within the 
next song. 
Ani's albums historically have a social 
message. but she masks them in great 
music and even better lyrics. Out of 
nowhere listeners will begin singing 
along to lyrics in To The Teeth like, 
"Look at where the profits are. That's 
how you'll find the source of the big lie 
that you and I both know so well. In the 
time it takes this cultural death wish to 
run its course, they'll make a pretty 
penny." 
Most of this record was recorded in 
Ani's hometown of Buffalo, NY and the 
comfort of being home is definitely felt here. There is also an immeasurable energy and confidence on To The Teeth. It is especially evident in "The Arrivals Gate," which is reminiscent of Little Plastic Castle, but even better. Some of the more daring tracks include "Back Back Back" and "Swing." These songs reveal a funkier side to Ani, complete with James Brown sideman Marceo Parker on saxophone and Corey Parker rapping in "Swing." 

Ani fans longing for her poetic songs of records past will be more than satis­fied with lyrics like, "Two people pulled over on the same night to look up at the stars. They both found their wheels were spinning in a soft shoulder when they both got back into their cars and they missed fate's appointed ren­dezvous." This poetic vibe continues in "Providence" which features the Artist (formerly known as Prince). This song expresses a situation that many people have been in. "It's a narrow margin. Just room enough for regret in the inch and a half between hey, how -ya been? And can I kiss you yet?" 
As always, Ani brings her unabashed talent to this latest release. Purchasing To The Teeth is more like an investment in great music. This album is truly a lucky thirteenth for Ani and listeners will collectively remark, "Bring on num­ber 14!" 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Tribute album fails to honor The Jam 
and thn Mod revolution set forth by the only has one sbot to crank out a song. ing music is not ber cup of tea.
By GEOFFREY RAHIE 
Who. The Jam's style ranged from slow Once a song starts to gain momentum, As stated before it's very difficult to 
Stl'nc f\lw,.1c Critit 
blissful ballads to hard-rocking early the next track seems to disappoint. pull off a good tribute album. Big names punk numbers. "Fire and Skill: The A good example of this takes place on are not always the formula for success,Tlw Brilish invasion brought many Songs of The .lam" is a various artists' the second and third tracks of the disc. but it's nearly impossible to have one .. bands to tlw f'ordront or modern tribute album that sets out to capture The Beastie Boys do a terrific funky band do an entire tribute. That is justpopular culture. While thr. Bealles and The Jam's fiery style on one album. almost-instrumental version of "Start!" illogical. It seems to be a shame that a the Who might b~, the most recognizable ll would be in order to first mention Laid-back guitars and a Fender Rhodes seasoned band like The Jam will be British l'o1-cPs to grncP tlw earth, there tbat tribute/compilation albums rarely keyboard captivate the spectacular remembered in this light. wern countless numbers ol' bands that work. While intentions to honor the groove. However, the next track, Reefs have now been l'orgotten. Tim Jam was band are always heartfelt. these types of take on "That's Entertainment," greatly 
om• or th CS!\ bands. albums lack continuity and purpose. The disappoints. The rest of the album A 70s British band that was inspired sanrn rings true for this effort. It is just seems to follow this sorry meandering 
both by tlw poppy tun1~s or the Beatles too hard to get into a CD when a band pattern. 
Sadly. the two brightest spots on the CD come courtesy of those naughty Oasis boys. Singer Liam Gallagher col­laborates with Steve Cradock to produce 
a wonderfully serene song called "Carnation" that kicks the album off. Liam's voice seems to be less annoying than usual and shows great direction throughout the song. Fittingly. brother Noel closes the album by himself with the beautiful "To He Someone." Noel proves that he r.an hold his own by singing heartfelt lyrics that just jump right out at you. 
The biggest disappointment seems to be Ben Harper's try at "The Modern World." Harper's usually calm voice seems fake and l'orcod on the track. It also Jacks a sense of intensity that he is 
't. known best for. 
Garbage proves once again that they are the most overrated act in the indus­try today. Their horrible rendition of "The Butterfly Collector" should not have even been considered for this album. Shirley Manson needs to find something sbe is good at because play­
·-· ---­
Tuesday, February I, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 14 
SUPER BOWL XXXIV 

• Statehouse recognizes Rams' achievement 
Associated Press 
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. 
Never mind political affiliations or geography. On Monday, just about everyone in the Statehouse was a St. Louis Rams fan. 
And why not? 
The Rams won Missouri's first Super Bowl since the Kansas City Chiefs beat the Minnesota Vikings in 1970. 
Of course, some of the same lawmakers who stood and applauded the Rams had opposed using taxpayer dollars to pay for the team's current home in the Trans World Dome when the team moved from Los Angeles. 
But all was forgiven Monday as legislators in the House and Senate praised the Rams for their 23-16 thriller over the Tennessee 
.. 
Titans in Atlanta. Though neither the House nor the Senate honored the Rams with 
a formal resolution Monday. the achievement of the Super Bowl heroes did not go unheralded. 
"I think all or us should give recognition for a great victory on behalf of St. Louis and the state of r..1issouri." said House Speaker Steve Gaw. 
The champions even received mention in the ceremonial open­ing prayers in each chamber. 
Sen. John Scott. a supporter of the city's professional football teams since 1953, said an attempt is being made to lure a couple of Rams to the Capitol. perhaps even this week. 
"We are working on something," Scott said. "This is just great for St. Louis. Everybody is in a good mood." 
Sen. Bill Kenney, the former Pro Bowl quarterback for the Kansas City Chiefs, never made it to the big game but was happy for the Rams. 
"I think everybody in Kansas City was a big Rams fan this weekend," Kenney said. "I wish the Chiefs could go. Maybe it's our year next year." 
• St. Louis hosts parade for Super Bowl champs 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
With coach Dick Vermei! riding a wagon pulled by the Anheuser-Busch Clydesdales, tens of thousands of fans lined the streets of downtown Monday evening for a parade honoring the Super Bowl champion St. Louis Rams. 
The parade began about 40 minutes late, but the crowd didn't seem to mind. Players rode in trucks behind the wagon pulling Vermeil and his wife, Carol. 
"Thank you very much world champi­ons," Vermeil told the crowd. "As a repre­sentative of these guys, the management and the coaching staff. I'd like to thank you for your support. I'd like to you to know that the Rams aren't world champions. St. Louis is world champions." 
Rams owner Georgia Frontiere raised the Vince Lombardi trophy, causing the crowd to cheer even louder. 
"Georgia baby, I love you," one male fan shouted. 
Fans also broke into a chant of "MVP" as the truck carrying Kurt Warner made its way through the throngs of people. Warner is only the sixth player in league history to win the regular-season and Super Bowl MVP awards. 
Warner -who went from stocking gro­cery store shelves at the Hy-Vee in Cedar Falls. Iowa, to help the Rams improve from 4-12 to 16-3 in a single season -gave high-fives to several fans. who ran up to greet him. 
''I'd like to say that we forget about the grocery stores and all that stuff, and we start thinking about a repeat," Warner said. 
Meanwhile, traffic on nearby Highway 40 backed up for miles, thanks to the added congestion of people making their way to the celebration. 
A rally at nearby Kiener Plaza. which began earlier in the afte-rnoon, was to resume once the parade ends. 
"This is great. It's a dream come true," said Marshall Faulk, after making his way onto the stage a Kiener Plaza. "The fans have been great. We appreciate you guys supporting us. Thank you!" 
St. Louis fans also were signing a large "get well" banner that will be sent to Kansas City Chiefs linebacker Derrick Thomas. paralyzed from the chest down following a car crash on Jan. 23. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 \i.rn. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves die right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Professor needs 3 hrs. help on  Available Fall 2000. 4-6 Student  '93 FORD ESCORT GT.  My house burnt down last  
NOTICES  LOST & FOUND  small farm 1 mile from N.D. 277-5328  Rental House ...2 112 baths: lots of space; Parking Lot and Laundry ...  5-SPD, A/C, EXC. COND. 73K. $4100 o/b/o  Tuesday.Late last week, the Fire Dept. informed me that my dog  
Email Ford.1@nd.edu  616-683-6705,  (dalmation) must have escaped the  
My house burnt down last  Dave 291-2209  fire.I am offering a $1000.00 reward  
Tuesday.Late last week the Fire  My house burnt down last  1991 Honda accord EX  for her return. Call Chris 246-1338.  
Dept. informed me that my dog (dalrnation) must have escaped the  Tuesday.Late last week the Fire Dept informed me \hat my dog  FOR RENT  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  88,000 miles $6000 2\ 9•273-84B3  NEMATODE!  
fire.I am offering a $1000.00 reward  [dalmatian) must have escaped the  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND  
for her return. Call Chris 246-1338.  fire.I am offering a $1000.00 reward  6 BDRM HOME.FURN.AVAIL  EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD  don't worry, Noreen. We all love  
LOSE WEIGHT!  tor her return. Call Chris 246-1338.  NOW.$150. PER.  CLOSE 277-3097  TICKETS  you (OK. except maybe connolly). Even if you are ... um ... underap- 
EAT WHAT YOU LIKE!  272-6306  preciated in certain circles.  
WEIGHT WATCHERS BRAND­NEW  WANTED  2-6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01 272­ B'NB REGISTRY 219·291-7153  NEED ONE TICKET FOR FEB. 12 UCONN GAME. Please call Chad  There is something in my eye.  
ON CAMPUS PROGRAM  6306  at x3633 if you have an extra ticket.  
SITTER WANTED  HOUSES FOR RENT:  what is going on out there?  
Your super-convenient dream diet  Tues and Thurs, 12:30 • 6:15  3 bedroom duplex  1 )925 N. Francis, 5-bedroom, 1­ 1 really would like to know  
:I  from a name you !rust is coming to Notre Dame and St Mary's! No complicated counting' Eat pizza,  On Campus, at Univ. Vig. Apts. Chris or Shannon: 634-4751  appliances,W/D 1 mile from campus  bath, newly refinished wood floors, $1200/month. 2)520 Corby, 4-bedroom, 1-bath,  PERSONAL  what time is it?  
cake-any food you crave and lose  Clubs • Student Groups  273-8332  $1000/month.  www.thecommentator.com  davidbowie  
weight. Get five info-packed book­ 
lets, tons of super-easy recipes,  Student organizations earn $1,000­ ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  Call Btll at 675-0776.  WILL RODNEY RODENT SEE HIS  
and specialized online support from  $2,000 with the easy campus- AND CLOSE  SHADOW?  hello enn elizabeth,  
trained Weight Watchers staff. You  fundraiser.cam three hour fundrais­ http://rnmmrentals.homepage .cam/  hope you are having a fantastic  
pay just $79 for 7 weeks. Start the  ing event. No sales required.  email:mmmren!als@aol.com  FOR SALE  somebody help this guy out. his  day1 i'm doing just great. take it  
millennium nght-register today over  Fundraising dates are filling quickly,  232-2595  house burned down and you know  easy.  
the phone: 1-800-651-6000.  so call today! Contact campus•  New Phone Card  the rest.. ........  
Visa. MasterCard and Discover  fundraiser.com, (688) 923-3238, or  6 BEDRM. '00-'01  886 mins. $20  
accepted  visit www.campusfundraiser.com.  $1200/mo. 273-0482  258·4805 or 243-9361  heyheyhey  going to miami  


Tuesday, Fc:bruary I, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Miami holds onto first place 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
With tlwir 11-wenk stay in first pl.,rn at stakP. the Miami IIPai rPspondPd by routing tlw slumping· DP.troit Pistons 104-82 . 
.Jamal ~lashburn had 23 points. eight rebounds and six assists to IPad thr lleat, whose· starl1•rs PnjoyPd a short night. Miami shot 5(, pPrCPlll. 
\Vith a loss, tlw I\l'at would havP fallPn out or first plan• in tlw Atlanlil' Division frw the l'irst limt: sint:t\ Nov. 10. lnstnad thPy took a half-ganH' !Paci ov<'r thn N<'W York Knie ks. 
D<'lroit's (;rant Iii!! sat out with a bruised hip that has l'orrPd him to miss thre8 gamPs llis status remains 
·cl ay-to-dav 
·i·hn Pistons havP lost seven 
of' thPir past l'ight gamPs, and 
tlwy·v., droppnd six straight 
on tlw road. 
Miami"s Alun,:o \1ourning srorcd 20 points. reaching tlw mih•storn~ for thn 10th consec­ulivP ganw to brnak the team rc'cord he shared with Glen Hi<·,,. 
.Jc>rrv StackbousP had 17 
points· f'or l)ptroit but onlv 
Sl'Vl'll artPr tlw l'irst quarte/ 
ii<' slin~d through tlrn Miami 
ddt•nsP ror !'our dunks to hnlp 
giv<' !)1\troi L a 20-1 (> lead 
linforp tlrn I!cat \\'tmt ahcad Lo 
stay 1\arly in tlrn sPcond peri­
od. 
Tim llardaway's 3-pointer rnppi\d a 19-4 spurt that put Miami up 50-37. and c.onsecu­liv<' 3-pointnrs bv Voshon L<rnard and Mashburn made it 65-45. 
Without Ifill. tllA Pistons 
struggkd to find an 01Tcnsiv11 
option. Thr,y shot 5-for-15 in the second period, then did evnn worse in the third period -3-f'or-1i. 
Excluding his dunks, Stackhouse shot 2-for-13. 
Timberwolves 105, Kings 90 
Bobby Jarkson had 17 points, ·11 rebounds and 12 ,tssists for bis l'irst career 1riple-double as the Minnesota Timberwolves beat Lim Sacramento Kings 105-90. 
Jackson. starting l'or the third time this season in place of thn injured Terrell nrandon. had s1~ason highs in rebounds and assists. Grandon sat out after sprnin­ing his IPft ankle in Saturday's victory over Utah. 
It was the third triple-dou­ble by the TirnberwolvPs this season and seventh in fran­chisll history. 
K1·vin Garnett had 31 points. 12 rchounds and seven assists f'or Minnesota which has won 18 of' 22 sine~ snapping an eight-game los­ing streak. 
i\t 2S-1,, the Wolves have matcht>d their best record ever af'ter 42 games (1997­
98) 
Chris Webber had 14 points to load seven players in dou­ble-figures for Sacramento. which has lost four or six since winning seven in a row. The Kings were making their firth stop on an eight-game road trip. the longest trip by an NBA team this season. 
Sacramento's Jason Williams got a technical and scored just two points, one night after scoring five points and getting ejected in New York. 
Sacramento srored fewer than 100 points for the first 
Holy Cross: 
time in 13 games. 
Garnett scored 13 points in the third quarter as IV!innesota took control against a worn down Sarramento team. 
Thri Kings fell behind 66-49 earJy in the third hefore Vlade Diva<: scored ninfl of their next 11 points to make it 68­60 with 4:24 left. 
But, Garnett answered with a 7-0 run of his own, includ­ing n one-handed·dnnk over Divac. The Wolves took an 84­(;6 lead into the fourth and didn't look bark. 
Minnesota went on a 20-2 run in the first quarter to take a 2(,-12 lead.with 4:18 left in the period. The Timberwolves shot 15-for-23 (.652) in the quarter and hf,ld a 32-21 lead into the serond. 
The Kings' bench provided a spark in the second, as Scot Pollctrd srored eight points and Darrick-Martin scored seven to bring Sacramento within 47-4~ at the 5'.'.~9 mark. But. Minnesota ended the quarter on a 13-6 run to take a 60-49 halftime lead. 
Notes: 
. .Jackson has fivA career 
double-doubles, but none last season. 
. 
Anthony Peeler scored 16 points off the bench for Minnesota. · 

. 
Minnesota and Sacramento split a two-game series in Japan to open the season. Three of Minnesota's five starters were different than in that series. 

. 
At 12-3 in January, the Wolves have set a franchise record for wins in a calendar month. Minnesota was 10-4 in January of 1998. 

. 
Minnesota is 20-1 when leading after three quarters. 


Men with aMission 


ANSWER ~ THECALL '<')/ 

Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/--,;vocation 
.,,
NBA 
Jordan's first move doesn't go as planned 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON On the court, Michael Jordan's one-on-one spin move past Laron Profit was as smooth as ever. Off the court, the Washington Wizards head 
of basket­ball opera­tions admit­ted his first big man­age me n t move -a e on fusing 
and bitter change of 
Jordan
coaches ­didn· t go according to plan. 
Darrell Walker, who has been coaching a last-place tram in the CB:\, was hirnd as the Wizards interim coach Monday. Walker expected to be named an assistant, but suddenly moved up the ladder when Jordan·s first choice. Golden State assistant Rod Higgins, fell through because the Wizards couldn't agree on a compensation deal with the Warriors. 
"That was an unfortunate situation in that things did not work out properly with Golden State," Jordan said. "Rod was just one of our candidates for the job. Darrell was another." 
W a I k e r "c h . . 
was 41 _90 rrom t 1s tzme orward, clashed openly over 1 1/2 I'm going to do the hiring with Heard 's s e a s o n s and I'm going o I d -s c h o o I 
with the coaching style, T O r O n t O to do the firing." reacted with R a p t o r s anger. before quit-Michael Jordan "Ha! Let me ting in Wizards' head of basketball tell you some­
1998, and t h i n g . " he's leaving operations Strick I and 
ately after the Wizards (14-30) beat the Cleveland Cavaliers. Jordan said he was deferring to the wishes of general man­ager Wes Unseld. "I actually offered to do that 
because that's my responsibili­ty as president," Jordan said. "And Wes took the approach that 'I hired the guy, I'll fire the guy.' My response to Wes was that .this is the only time that you're going to be able to do this. From this time for­
ward, I'm going to do the hir­
ing, and I'm going to do all the 
firing." 
From the first day he 
b
ecame part-owner and presi­
drnt of basketball operations, Jordan gave Heard the cold shoulder. Heard said he Wished Jordan had fired him immediately instead of letting him twist in the wind. and sug~ ges.ted to several newspapers that the Falk, the agent who represents Jordan and well as Wizards players Rod Strickland and Juwan Howard, was an intermediary to his demise. 
"l didn't expect to be one of [Michael's] guys, especially 
with the David Falk factor." Heard told The Washington Post. "Rod and Juwan. I'm sure they didn't have anything good to say." 
Strickland and Howard, both 
fi of whom 
a Rockford Lightning team that is 13-17 and in last place in the CBA's Atlantic Conference. Thrilled to be out of the minors, Walker used the word "fun" at least a dozen 
· times at his introductory news conference. · 'Tm just happy to be here,"said Walker, who also played four years as a guard with· the then-Washington Bullets from 1987-91. "It's a dream come true. Hopefully, J can be the guy who can turn this' team around back in the right direction. It's not like we're going to jump up and run off 20 or 30 in a row, Jjust want us to go out, be competi­tive, get after people, play defense and have some fun." Walker's first game is Tuesday night in Cleveland, but he was almost the bit play­erMondayassomctoughpart­ing shots were exrhangPd among the players, Jordan and fired coach Gar Heard. Jordan had to defend the timing and manner of lleard's dismissal, and Jordan, Hod Strickland 
and Juwan Howard shot back at Heard's allegation that his . dismissal was due in part to the "David Falk factor." 
Jordan was in Atlanta for the Super Bowl when Heard was fired Saturday night, immedi­said. "I sat up· 
last night try­ing to think about how I was going to deal with this situa­tion. and I wanted to be verv diplomatic about this. Bu·t instead he's talking his little shots. The bottom is, maybe he just couldn·t coach. Have y'all ever thought of that? Is that a possibility? I'll take account­ability when I play bad, when we lose, I'll take the heat and everything. j\jow he has to take some heat and accountability. He didn't handle this situation that great, neither. And it wasn't just about me and Juwan. That's just an excuse. 
"He came in with a bulldozer mentality. He was like that every day, balking, cursing, screaming every day. After a while, that gets old. We're grown men.'' 
Said Howard: "I don't control stuff like that. I don't go behind the scenes and I don't go behind anybody's back." 
Jordan was more diplomatic, saying he fired Heard because the coach had lost his players' 
respect. 
"When you're disappointed, quite naturally you start reach­ing out for different types of straws,"Jordan said. "He felt like David Falk changed my mind or initiated the firing, but 1think that's totally inrorrcct." 
Got Sports? 
Call 1-4543 
page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, february 1, 2000 


Happy 

J2K! 
e 112 Badin Hall 631-5242 @103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 ~mail ministry.1@nd.edu ~eb www.nd.edu/~ministry 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
Monday, December 6 through Monday. February 7 103 Hesburgh Library Freshman Retreat #27 (Feb.1 1-12) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill, Pcsquerilla East, St. Edward's, Siegfried, Walsh, and Zahm 
Monday, !anuary 17 through Friday. February 4 103 Hesburgh Library Senior Retreat !February 11-12) Sign-Up 
Tuesday. February 1 103 Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up Deadline for World Youth Day 2000 in Rome 
Campus Ministry is hosting a trip for up to 20 students to participate in World Youth Day 2000 in Rome, on August 15­
20. Direct any questions lo Fr Bill Wack, csc (631-3087) 
Tuesday. February l Bodin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, February l, 7:00 pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
JPW Reader Auditions 
Wednesday, February 2, 5:00 p.m. log Chapel 
Dia de la Candelaria Mass 
Followed by Dinner and Celebration at 6:30-8:00 p.m. in the Faculty Dining Room in South Dining Hall 
Wednesday, February 2, 8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday, February 2, l 0:00-10:30 p.m. Walsh Hall Chapel Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Friday-Sunday, February 4-6 Fatima Retreat Center Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #59 
Saturday-Sunday, February 5-6 Pilsen. Chicago, IL Encuentro Chicago Retreat 
Depart from library Circle at 8:00 a.m. Sponsored by Campus Ministry and Center for Social Concerns 
Sunday. February 6, 4:00 p.m. Sorin Hall Chapel 
Reioicel Mass and 
Black History Month Reflection Presider: Rev. Steve Gibson, csc 
Post Grad Opportunity: Campus Ministry Internship Program 

We hear all the time about young adults who are changing the world of high tech, sports, business, politics or entertainment with their unique brand of energy and innovation. So why not in ministry? Why not in building the Church of the 21st century? Why not bring some of that same innovation and energy to sharing faith and understanding our experience of God? • The Campus Ministry Internship allows graduating ND seniors a chance to work at doing just that. The internship is for anyone desiring to spend a year of their energy and time learning, growing, and serving through all 

The Campus Ministry facets of ministry on campus. Campus Internship program provides 
Ministry Interns encounter opportunities to 
an opportunity for recent 
grow in their faith and share it with others
Notre Dame graduates to join the Campus Ministry while learning from the diverse and dynamic team and work side by side 
team of religious and lay ministers that make 
with Campus Ministry staff 
up the Campus Ministry team. Interns are
for one year. It offers a unique challenge to ·grow challenged to articulate their faith in all areas, personally, spiritually and 
from retreats and religious eduation to music 
professionally, while woking and cross-cultural ministries. • The internship
with students from around the ND community. is a valuable experience for anyone who is considering a future in ministry oi pursuing
Application deadline: 
degrees in Theology or related fields. It is also
February 15, 2000. Stop by the Badin Hall Campus an enlivening way to equip yourself with the Ministry office to pick up 
tools and understanding to be an active and 
an application or to talk to 
contributing member ofany faith community. 
John or Sylvia Dillon. 
Good Stuff to Know 
Encuentro Chicago 
An overn1ght \mmers1on \n Ch\cago's lat1no neighborhood of PUsen 
February 19-20 
Experience: The Resurrection Project The Mexican Fine Art Museum Cristo Rey High School 
St. Pius VParish 
applications are still available at the Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry (103 Hesburgh Library) Applications due; Feb. 2. Cal] Fr. Pat@l-7800 or Colleen@l-5293 for more info 
luesday, February I, 2000 The Obsen1er . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Braves' Rocker suspended until May for racial co01Inents 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
John Hocker was suspended until May 1 by commissioner Bud S1)!ig on Monday for racial and ethnic remarks that "offended 
practically every ele­
ment  of  
sor.iety...  
T  h  P  

ALl,inla Braves' reliever also was 

f'in1•d and Rocker 
order,'.d to undergo snnsitivity training for disparaging forPignC'rs. homo­snx uals and minoritiPs in a magazine intervinw. The amount of the f'inr was not 
immediately known. The players' union said it intends to fight the ruling. 
"Major league baseball takes seriously its role as an American institution and the important social responsibility lhat goes with it,"Selig said. 
'"We will not dodge our responsibility. Mr. Rocker should understand that his remarks offended practically every element of society and brought dishonor to himself. the Atlanta Braves and major loague baseball. The terrible example set by Mr. Hocker is not what our great game is about and, in fact, is a pro­found breach of the social rom­pact we hold in such high regard." 
The players' assodation said it expects to f'ile a grievance over the penalty, believed to be the longest against a basp,ball player for an action not related to drug use since Lenny Randle of Texas got 30 days in March 1977 for punching his manag­er, Frank Lucchesi. 
"I do not believe it is appro­priate that I should be harshly disciplined for my misguided speech unaccompanied by any conduct on my part,"Rocker said in a statement released by his agents. "I have previously apologized for my unfortunate remarks and stand by my apol­ogy." 
A grievance would force the matter before Shaym Das, the sport's new independent arbi­trator. 
"We have been in consulta­tion with Mr. Rocker and it is our present intention lo appeal."said Gene Orza,, the union's No. 2 oftkial. "It is lit-
OH Campus
Juma,, l'am,t W «Kfflb Special 
fcbnfAnt 17•21,. 1000 
Come early; stay fate, same pr!oe! 
Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms 
available for your parents. Weekend rost is $60.00 per parent. Wheller you stay Two, three, or foll" nights. Rooms a-e available Thursday through Sunday. 
For reservations, caU 219-631-7512. 
J 
erally unprecedented to impose a penalty on a player for pure speech, offensive though the speech may be. That. coupled with the magnitude of the penalty, just as unprecedented, makes us optimistic about the outcome of the appeal." 
With the season to start April 3, the suspension technically is to last 28 days. A suspension will not affect his salary, expected to be between $200.000 and $300,000. 
Thr. 25-year-old pitcher was barred from joining the Braves at spring training. A high-rank­ing baseball official, speaking on the condition he not be iden­tified. said the commissioner's office did not want Rocker to report with other Braves' pitch­ers and catchers, thus minimiz­ing the number of media descending on Kissimmee, rla., when camp opens Feb. 17. 
Rob Manfred, baseball's exec­utive vice presid1mt for labor relations, disputed that, saying it was not a factor. 
Rocker's comments drew a strong response from Braves executive Hank Aaron and civil rights groups. Several Braves players have said they expect Rocker to have a difficult time when he rejoins the team. 
The pitcher was ordered by 
Selig on Jan. 6 to undergo psy­chological tests, but the results of those tests have not been disclosed. 
Rocker said in a Sports Illustrated story published last month that he would never play for a New York team because he didn't want to ride a subway train "next to some queer with AIDS." Ile also said, 'Tm not a very big fan of foreigners.... How the hell did they get in this country?" 
He also called a black team­mate a "fat monkey." 
Braves owner Ted Turner has said Rocker deserves a second chance, and pointed out the reliever had apologized. 
"l don't think we ought to 
hold  it  against  him  
fnrever,"Turnflr  said.  "He  
didn't commit a crime."  

Rocker told ESPN last month that he had lost his cool and said things he didn't mean about New York fans because he wanted "to inflict some emo­tional pain in retaliation to the pain that had been inflicted on n1e." 
Rocker said he was frustrated by Yankees fans who threw batteries at him during the World Series. He said Mets fans spit in his face and poured beer on him during the playoffs. 
Please recycle The Observer 
Thursday at I 0:30 p.rn. 
Friday & Saturday at 8 p.m. & 10:30 p.m. Io 1 DeBartolo $2 admission No food or drink! 

page l 8 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 1, 2000 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Syracuse tops St. John's, remains undefeated 
Associated Press 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
ThP streak lives. 
Jason Hart bit a clutch 3­pointM to forge a late tie, then set up Damone Brown for a three-point play as No. 4 Syraruse rallied past St. John's 63-57 to remain unbeaten. 
Hart. plagued by foul trou­ble. rame off the bench with 
8: :rn left to spark the Orangemen to their 18th straight victory and keep them the only undefeated team in Division l 
The Red Storm (13-6. 5-3 13ig East) gave Syracuse (18-0, 8-0i fits all night, using their crisp passing attack to befuddle the Orangi>men. 
It sermed like St John's woul<l end th!' winning streak wtH'Il Anthony Glow•r rnnvert­ed a three-point play to put the Red Storm up 54-49 with 5:23 left. They double-teamed Syracuse center Etan Thomas all night. preventing the Orangemen from taking advantage of his strong inside game. 
But Svracuse. which went nearly ·eight minutes in the second half without a basket. came back behind llart. who had four fouls, as St. John's fizzled down the stretch for a third time in four game. 
After Brown hit a baseline jumper, Har-t hit a 3 from the right corner to tie the game 54-54. 
Bootsy Thornton then hit a jumper in close over the out­stretr,hed arms of Brown for a 56-54 St. John's lead. but that was the Hed Storm's last fkld goal of the game. 
Thomas tied it with two free throws. then Hart. double­teamed bv Erick Barklev and Chudney .Gray as St. John's pressed. found Brown alone under the basket for an easy layup with 1:58 left. Brown. who was fouled on the play, converted the free throw for a 59-56 lead. 
The Orangemen used their tough zone defense to shut down St John's in the closing minutes. 
Thomas. who had six blocks. stuffed Gray to forre a shot clock violation and Hart. Brown and OeShaun Williams hit free throws over the final two minutes to secure the vic­tory. 
Brown. Hart and Williams earh had 12 points. while Thomas had eight points and 11 rebounds. 
Thornton led St. John's with 13 points, while Barkley and Glover earh had 12 and Lavor Postell added 11. 
St. John's shot 47.:{ percent for the game (26-for-55i and might have come out on top ii' not for some awful foul shoot­ing (2-for-9 i. Barkley missed four free throws and Glover missed two more when the Red Storm were clinging to a slim lead before Hart turned the game around. 
Ohio Stale closed its win over St. John's with an 11-0 run, while Notre Dame fin­ished its victory last Saturday with a 17-2 run. Syracuse closed this game with a 20-8 
run. 
Oklahoma 83, Texas 59 
J.H. fiaymond sr.ored 25 points and Eduardo Najera had 18 points and 16 rebounds as No. 18 Oklahoma banded No. 16 Texas its most lopsided loss of' the season, 83-59. 
The Sooners (17-3, 5-2 Big 12! held Texas to '.~4 perr.ent shooting, a far cry from the 5 7 percent the Longhorns shot in beating Oklahoma 79-66 on Jan. 15. 
GabP. Muoneke of Texas tied a career high with 30 points in that game. but wasn't a factor this time. The Longhorns {14­
6. 6-2) had to rely on 7-footer Chris Mihm, who had 21 points and 12 rebounds but was swarmed by two and three defenders just about every time he touched the ball. As a result. he was just 7-of-17 from the field. 
Najera ·didn't appear both­ered by a broken bone in his left hand, an injury suffered in practice last week. He banged with Mihm all night, and occa­sionally Muoneke, and sparked Oklahoma with his hustle. 
Muoneke, who averages 14 points per game, picked up two fouls, one of them a tech­nical. in the first two minutes. He never got going and fin­ished with six points. 
The Longhorns survived from the perimeter early, but didn't hit from inside or out­side while going nearly 7 1/2 minutes without scoring mid­way through the first half. 
Oklahoma outscored the Longhorns 11-0 during that stretch to take a 27 -17 lead. Texas got within 29-25 with 
2:45 remaining, but Najera fueled an 11-3 spurt the rest of the way. sr,oring six points and making a steal as Oklahoma took a 40-28 lead. 


Tuesday, February I, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Dallas awaits Rodman's answer 
Associated P rcss 
DALLAS 
The lh1llas Mavericks would probably have a better chancr of getting an answer out of Di>nnis Hodman if they wcr<' invit­ing him Lo a party Tul'sdav n i g h \ rallwr than asking him to play in u game. 
As ol' Monday al'Lrr1111on. thP ~lavcrkks wcrr still wait­ing to !war whrther Rodman was ready to rnturn to the NB,\ or if' lw planned to con­tin uc celebrating being Dnnnis llndrnan. 
N<iither Hodman's agent. StevP Chasman, nor his publi­r is t imrn1•diatelv returned 11honP calls to Th,: Associated l'r<'SS. 
Tlw king of' self-promotion put his homPl01,,·n team on huld last \\'C~\k so he could join his friPnds. the H<'d Hot Chili l'flppers. at Super Bowl parlit\S in Atlanta. 
\VhilP thPrP. Bodman said lw was r,onsid·ering cir.laying his return a l'rw more weeks so lw could go to the Pro Bowl in Hawaii this weekend and even the NBA All-Star game tbe following weekend, 

"l 've got to get all of my partying out of the way." Tlodman said. 
Mark Cuban. the Mavs' soon-to-be owner, laughed off 
the quotes and said he still 
hopc'd to have a dedsion by 
Monday. Dallas has home 
games against Philadelphia 
on Tuesday and Charlotte on 
Thursday. 
Dallas can onlv offer 
Hodman the prorated share 
of the $1 million salary-cap 
exception. I-le loses about 
$12.200 every game he miss­
es. 
Although Cuban is willing to make some concessions for Rodman, waiting may not be one of them. 
The Mavericks have won sPven of nine despite the ongoing will-he. won't-he? saga and players have to be ready for the dance to end, 011e way or another. 
Thfrn again. they should probably get used to it. If he doP.s join the team, that's how it'II be every day. 
The Los Angeles Lakers found that out last February and got rid of him al'ter only 23 games 
Rodman has said other teams are pursuing him, but 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
-· 
Junior Business Majors 
none are known to be inter­ested. 
lle's especially hoping the Lakers will call because it would mean a reunion with Phil Jackson, his former r.oar.h in Chicago, 
Cuban, though, is willing to give Rodman the same free reign Jackson did. 
The Internet billionaire fig­ured that's the best way to treat Rodman after talking to bar.kup center Scan Rooks and new team executive Derck Harper, both of whom played with Rodman on the Lakers last season. 
Cuban has agreed to let Rodman ride a stationary bike instead of practicing and said he can keep pedaling during games. Hodman also has permission to arrive at games 75 minutes prior to tipoff instead of the usual 100. 
And, because of Rodman's rock star-like following, Cuban also is planning to beef up security at games. 
Attention isn·t the only rea­son the Mavericks are inter­ested in Bodman, although it is a big part of it. 
Even at 38 and a lon·g layoff from the NBA. Rodman would be Dallas' best rebounder. The Mavericks also could use his tenadous defense, 
Internships available to work in 
ACCION Offices 
Accion is a micro-lending organization assisting people with no credit history to obtain loans to improve build their businesses. 
• 
10-12 week program during the summer, 

• 
$2,500.00 tuition scholarship for 12 weeks 

• 
with housing and food stipend 

• 
3 academic credits -(elective) Theo 360 (Business Approach to Social Change) 


Available m 6 cities: Albuquerque, Chicago, El Paso, New York City, San Antonio, San Diego 
•• Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns & COBA Undergraduate office # due February 18th 
Interviews in March at the Center for Social Concerns with a representative from ACCION 
Information Session · February 9th Room 121, COBA 5:00 PM 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Manuel concerned about star's future 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 
Indians manager Charlie Manuel expects Manny Ramirez to walk up to him one day soon. perhaps during spring training next month, and ask for some advice. 
Not on how to hit a curvcba!I or Pedro Martinez's sinker. 
No, RamirPz, Cleveland's All­Star right fielder and soon-to­be free a.gent. will be looking for guidance about his playing future. 
Stav in Cleveland? Or take bigge'i·. free-agent money else­where? 
Manuel has his answer pre­pared. 
"What do YOU think I'm going to tell him?" Manuc I joked Monday. 'Tll tell him, ·1 need you. son, What are you trying to do. get me fired?"' 
Manuel. the Indians' former hitting instructor who replaced Mike Hargrove this offseason. was at Jacobs Field on Monday along with some of his players as the . Indians kicked off their winter media tour. 
Catcher Sandy Alomar, and pitchers Steve Karsay and Sean DePaula were joined by Indians general manager John Hart for a luncheon. 
A slimmed-down Alomar answered questions about his knee injury; Karsay talked about becoming the team's closer this season following Mike Jackson's departure; and Hart, as usual, held court on a 
variety of topics but none  as  
important to the [ndians  as  
Ramirez.  

Ramirez led the majors with 
165 RBIs last year and soon could lead baseball in another category -largest contract 
Hart said he and Ramirez's agent, Jeff Moorad. have had several brief conversations recently, 
"We've had some informal discussions:• Hart said, "But they've been, hello? Goodbye." 
Mourad said neither side has presented anything formal and that he likely would meet with Hart in Florida during spring training. 
"I know we'll talk when the Indians feel comfortable mov­ing forward,"he said. 'Tm cer­tain our paths will cross in the near future." 
Ramirez, who will make $4 million in the final vear of his contract. has madi it known that he wants to stay with the Indians. 
"Manny would like to play in Cleveland for the balance of his r.areer,"Moorad said. 
The rcr.ent news that the New York Yankees were close to signing shortstop Derek Jeter to a $118,5 million. seven-tear contract and Detroit's willingness to give Juan Gonzalez a $140 million. eight-year deal has potentially taken Ramirez into a financial stratosphere the Indians can't and won't approach. 
"As much as we'd like to sign Manny, we just don't think the economics make sense for us at this time,"Hart said, "We'll wait and see what happens. There's a a big class of players coming out next year, We'd like to retain Manny if at all possible. What other clubs do sometimes doesn't make sense to us." 

You know that noise your hean makes when you work out? 
IT'S CALLED APPLAUSE. 
Think of each beat as your heart's way of cheering you on for staying physically active. Want a standing ovation? Try keeping your diet low in cholesterol and saturated fat too. For more ways to lower your risk of heart attack and stroke, visit www.americanheart org Am . H art o"­
. encan e or call 1-800-AHA-USA1. Association. 
Fighting Heart Disease •r>d Stroke 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 1, 2000 
CLUB SPORTS 
Bowlers place 26th in Blue and Gold Open 
Special to The Observer 
Over 300 keglers converged on Beacon Bowl for the Bowling Club's annual Blue and Gold Open. Fifty of the top men's and wom<'n's teams traveled to one of' the year's most prestigious events. including dPffrnding national champion Saginaw and.other top-ranked teams such as '\iorthern Illinois. Michigan State and Purdue. On the women's side. Morf'lrnad State and Indian a State. ranked first and fourth nationally, headed the field. The Irish had bad luck in match play, drawing top five seeded oppo­nents. Bowling on their home lanes. the Irish finished 26th in the match play format. although their total pin r,ount was good enough for 16th. Top averagt\S included .Jason Pawlak. 214. and Darren Kraft. 204. whirh placed them 15th and 19th in the tourna­ment. Anne Deitch ·s 183 put her at 19th in the women's rankings. Men's Champion was 11th ranked Northern Illinois. while the women's trophy went to Indiana State. 
Men's Volleyball 
The Michigan Classic was anything but for the Meu's Volleyball Club. !laving alreadv won more matches than ali of' last year. the Irish hoped to build on momentum gained from last week's victo­ries over Miami (Ohio). Illinois State and Marquette. However. a subpar perfor­mance resulted in losses to Navy, 25-19. 25-23: Kentucky. 25-23, 18-25, 15-17; 
tournament at Marquette in three weeks. 
Ultimate Frisbee 
The Ultimate Club competed in the University ol' Michigan Invitational. an event foatur­ing the br,st t11ams f'roi-n the midwcst. In men's competi­tion, th1~ Irish posted a deceiv­ing 2-3 rr.rord. Drcisivc vic­tories over Ohio State, 11-6. and Michigan B. 12-4. were offset with close losses decid­ed in the final minute. Dayton scored twice in the last minute to walk away an 8-7 victor. and then the Irish fought ninth-ranked Michigan to the wire before dropping a 9-8 overtime decision in the semifinals, and later losing 12-9 in a game that was close to the end. Matt Anderson's valiant play against Dayton was the individual Irish high­light of the tournamr,nt, as he scored J'ive of Notre Dame's seven points. Cory Padesky's standout play throughout the entire event paced the club. 
In women's play, the Irish played several club tea11rn. before squaring off' against the other top two midwest teams. These matches lived up to their billing as the Irish split two hard fought games. losing to Michigan 9-8. and rebounding against defending regional champion Illinois 8­
7. These three teams ligurn to dominate midwest intercollo­giate competition, and will likely meet again in the sea­son ending championships. 
Late Night Olympics 
In addition to several com­petitions this weekend. seven 
UNDEFEATED 

MARY CALASH/The Observer The volleyball team featuring (1.-r.) Adam Oyster, Kimberly Berg, Christopher Nickele, Nicole Ortega, Colleen Ganey and Kevin Haney won the round robin physical education volleyball tournament. 

Visteon 
Would you like to be there in the beginning? 
Visteon is about to embark on a great challenge: Becoming an independent $18.0 Billion auto supplier. To put this into perspective, we are larger than 3M, Nike, Kodak & Fed Ex. The road to independence involves changes and we're looking to offer you an excellent opportunity to help make those changes! 

We will be developing business practices, strengthening and growing our technologies, and providing the best solutions for the customer. 
Ifyou are a junior with an interest in a career in finance, an internship this summer helping us prepare for an IPO 
would be a great experience! 
We are looking for people who have a passion for finance, enjoy the challenges ofcreative problem solving and are the future leaders of tomorrow. 
Come, see what possibilities exist at Visteon during our presentation on Wednesday, February 2nd at Senior Bar from 6:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m. 
For more information please contact your career center. 
and Graceland. 25-15, 25-11. The B team fared much bet­Olympics. The Equestrian, Rodeo, Field Hockey. Judo.
ter. defeating Michigan. Penn Ultimate, Men's Water Polo
State -Altoona arid Grand Rapids. before falling to and Women's Boxing Clubs Michigan State. Next up for 
have volunteered their time to the netters is a Midwest 10 
support LNO. 
. s· f H A k American Heart ail"' 
Warrnng ,gns O eart ttac Assoc1atiu11 V 
F1g~•1rg He-Jr' C sease Jid St,o;;e 
When heart attack occurs, every minute counts. Don't wait. Get help fast. 
• 
Uncomfortable pressure, fullness, squeezing or pain in the center of the chest lasting more than a few minutes. 

• 
Pain may spread to the shoulders. neck or arms. 

• 
Chest discomfort with light headedness, fainting, sweating, nausea or shortness of breath may also occur. 


Sometimes these symptoms go away and !hen return. Take them seriously, and get medical help. 
01999, American Heart Associalioo 


...-· 
You are the love of ,..,----------~~jlife <._>Will you marry me? 

LOVE. 
DANNY 
Tuesday, February 1, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Diver Huesman sets school record, leads Irish to victory 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE ~:unt M,iry's EJicor 
l!erb I lu1'srnan did a lot more than just !Pad the Irish to victory on Saturday. lie achieved a goal that one ynar ago, doc:tors could havQ said would bP impossi­
blP. 
Decoratl'd as om' of the lc1ading divRrs in the Notre Dame diving program's history, lluPsman was about to enter his junior sf'ason as a two-time :--JC,\;\ 

/,one quulifiPr and Huesman 
as a two-time rnrnrd hol!for· in the l -nrnter diving. 
llut a qu1·slionablP tumor dis('.overed in lluesman·s lung shortly before the Sl!ilSon bugan would postpone any drPams of' qualifying !'or NCAA rhampi­onships !hat year. Surgery r,ornpletcd las! fall that rnmov1~d a bl'nign tumor from his ch est red-shirtPd the divP r. lnaving him lO watch from the sidfl­lin1•s. VParning lo return. 
And.rrturn h<' did. Posting a rollegiatr~-besl score. llt1f'sman climbl'd out or the water 
after his last dive Saturda,• and smiled at his beaming coach. I-le ·had finished the dive eclipsing his personal best and the sehool 3-meter diving n~cord, and Iluesman knew he was back. 
Completing his final dive. a bai:k I 1/2 somersault with a 2 l/2 twist. Huesman knew he had achieved his goal. 
"I knew I broke il." be s<1id. "!l's something 1 • d been shooting for. and the 3 mNer is my favorite, so this was important." 
The diving record was previously holdy by Sean Hyer's mark of 351.60 was set in 1992. lluesman's ma.rk of 
360.90 shattered lhe n~cord by nine points. 
If that victory weren't enough, lluosman answered again in the 1 meter diving. posling another first plar.e finish for the day. 
"flight before conference. this is a good time to feel back where you were." Huesman said. 
Hue~man will l.ook to the Big East Championships Feb. 17-21 in Uniondale. N.Y. for some solid competi­tion and a preview of what he will taste at the NCAA championships. 
"This is a great meet to prepare you lfor NCAAs]." Huesman said. "The competition is great. We have the best 
C01'1'telcuult~yo-ur lcv~~~po-vt. 

Jeff Goett, a freshman in Fisher Hall has been diagnosed with cancer. The Freshman Counci/'asks you to sign a ·banner that wHf be-sent to him-during treatment. 
Feb. 1--NORTH DINING HALL Feb. 2--SOUTH D:JNING HALL Feb. 3--LAFUN ATACOUSTIC CAFE 

R~~ 
LRTE HIGHT 
LYKPIC 
2 D D
. 

people in the world in our conference." Pierce. Szilier swept the breastroke Huesman's dual wins fueled the Irish events. while Verlin dominated both with 32 points that led the Irish to a the 100 and 200 butterfly. Pierce victorv OVfff Oakland Universitv that wrapped up with wins in both distance evened their season record at 4-4: freestyle events. 
The Irish also picked up wins from The Irish will wrap up their dual 
junior Dan Szilier, meet season against St. Bonaventure junior Ryan Verlin and Saturday, February 5 at 1 p.m. at Rolfs sophomore Jonothan Aquatic Center. 
NFL 
Baltimore's Lewis .. charged with 01urder 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Police charged Pro Bowl line­backer Ray Lewis with murder late Monday in the slayings of two people outside an Atlanta nightclub hours after the Super Bowl. 
Lewis, middle linebacker for the· Baltimore Ravens. was charged after a day of investiga­tion into the slaying at the Cobalt lounge in Atlanta's Buckhead neighborhood about 4 
a.m. Monday. 
Lewis, thought to be en route to the Pro Bowl in Hawaii. was taken into custody and expected to appear in court on Wednesday. 
Two men were stabbed during a fight that broke out just as the party was ending at the club. 
Witnesses said six men had fought and argued With the two victims. The men fled in a black Lincoln Navigator stretch limou­sine. firing at least five gunshots as they drove away. 
Police found the vehicle, with New York license plates. in a parking lot behind a hotel near 
the shooting scene, Atlanta police spokesman John Quigley said. -
Quigley and Georgia Bureau of Investigation spokesman John Bankhead both said they could not release details of the investi­gation. 
Local broadcast outlets said earlier that Lewis had been questioned as a possible witness but was not a suspect. ­
One man died at the scene and the other victim died at Grady Memorial Hospital. The Fulton County Medical Examiner's office identified the victims as Jacinta Baker, 21, and Richard Lollar, 24, both or Atlanta. 
Despite the report of shots, Atlanta police Lt. M.C. Smith said the preliminary investiga­tion indicated both victims were stabbed to death. 
The 24-year-old Lewis, from Lakeland, Fla., became the sec­ond NFL player this month charged with murder. 
On Jan. 4, Carolina Panthers wide receiver Rae Carruth was charged with first-degree mur­der in the shooting death of Cherica Adams. who was preg­nant with their son. 


Tuesday, February 1, 2000 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
Hendegue against Hiley, the injuries that have left the 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
HDya's freshman was no squad at less than top­
Hoops 
mafch for the All-American strength the entire year. the candidate, as Hiley hustled her Friars have struggled to stay
continued from page 24 
way to 12 points. despite sit­at the .500 mark. With a 9-9
Irish serve up 9-0 
win over Yale 
By KEVlN BERCI-IOU 
Spore, Wrm:r 
Tile Notre Dame women's tennis team continurd its win­ning ways as it served up an impn'ssive 9-0 virtory over Y a I e Saturday. 
A drirni­nant sin­glf's squad 
droppPd 
just one set in caging thn Hulldogs. who wr.re clfiarlv ovcrwhel~ed. 
"I thought wr. playPd Vf\ry well." Irish head coarl1 Jay LoudPrback said. "We'd been practicing for weeks, and everyone was really ready tv go." 
The Irish received contribu­
tions from several unexpected 
sources in a victory that 
demonstrated the team's siz­
able depth. In an effort to 
comply with NCAA regulations 
which limit the number of 
matches play­

spark as she dismantlrid Yale's Cynthia Obsitnik in No. 1 sin­
glP-s in straight sets. 6-1, 6-2. 
"She's really playing well," said Louderback of Dasso. "HPr opponent was really a strong player. Now I think it's just a matter of getting some more matches under hPr belt before si1A's all the way back from that injury." 
Nina Vaughan. Lindstiy Green. Kim Guy and Sarah Scaring<' also got into Urn act of dominance. Each nettr,d imprnssive straight-set victo­ries ov1er their Bulldog coun­lcrµans. Vauglrnn scored an easy victory in No. 2 singlp,s over thr Bulldogs' Andrea Goldberg ()-1, and 6-4, while Green had an equally easy go al it, besting. Yale's Elizabeth Kaufman 6-1. &-:,. 
Guy's booming serve and 
formidable baseline game 
allowed her to quickly dis­
patch of Yale's Ashlee Fer\ito 
6-1, 6-3, before Sarah 
Scaringe slammed the door 
with a straight-set win over 
Yale's Kristen Gross. 
With the singles battles hav­
ing already decided the 
match's 
outcome,
ers can take Women's Tennis 
the doubles
part in. 
Notre Dame 9 
play was a chose to rest Yale 0 mere for­
Louderback 
m al it y.
some of his . Next match: at Rolex National 
That fact,
big gunsagainst the Indoor Championships however. did not stop
Bulldogs. a . Where: Dallas, Tex. 
relative Iv 
weak oppo·~ nent. With senior captain Kelly Zalinski 
and sophomore standout Becky Varnum sitting this one out, Louderback turned to freshman Katie Cunha. who did not disappoint. 
Cunha. playing in her first singles match. rallied for a hard-fought 3-6, 6-1. 7 -5 vic­tory in No. 5 singles over Yale's Elizabeth Oosterhuis. 
"Katie played great for us," Louderback said. "She got down early but didn't panic. She got that first win and that's always the toughest." 
While Cunha's solid play 
prov.id to be instrumental in 
gaining the upper hand. the 
Irish also saw several other 
players shine brilliantly. 
Junior All-American Michelle 
Dasso. corning off a recent 
shoulder injury. seemed to 
have regained some of her old 
the Irish 
from pum­
meling the Bulldogs in each of the three doubles clashes. The tandem of Cunha and Guy buried the Bulldog pairing of Kaufman and Obsitnik by a score of 8-3. while the coupling of Dasso and Vaughan pummeled Yale's offering of' Goldberg and Oosterhuis, 8-5. 
"Our doubles were strong again," Louderback said. "I think thev'll continue to be the strength ~f out team." 
The Irish will look to contin­ue their line play, on the heels of Saturday's emphalic win over Yale, when they take to the courts next weekend to compete in the Holex National Indoor Championships in Dallas, Tex .. an event which serves as the third leg of the Intercollegiate · Tennis Association collegiate grand slam. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
Grren turnPd in another top­notch perl'ormancc against the Iloyas. netting 14 points on the night. 
Green has increased lwr point production in th11 latter hair of the season and has loci the Irish in scoring in two of the team's last four outings. 
c,~utl1r Huth Biley has domi­narnd under the basket all season. Leading the Irish in poinls and rnbounds, the 6­foot-G junior has outmatched her opponents nach time she has stepped on tlw court. 
Evrn whPn Gc1orgetown pit­
ted its (1-f'oot-l 0 rtintcr Suzy 
Ling out most of the second overall record. the Friars are half in order split 4-4 in the Big East and
to give the Women's Basketball 
bench experi­remain stuck 
No. 5 Notre Dame al Providence 
in the confer­
ence on tho floor. . When: 7 p.m. 
Biley's next opponent will be Friar center Monika Hoberts. Hoberts is Providence's leading scorer, averaging 14.1 points per game, just below Hiley's 143 averag1:1. 
Tim Friars havn had a sna­son of' ups and downs ~ each ganw a dilTernnt-caliber t1:1am takes the court. Saddled with 
ence's seventh 
spot. 
Suffering in the midst of a f'our game slidn, a Win OV<ff the Irish would be a perfect way for the Friars to get thnir season back on track. 
Beating No. 5 Notrr Danw will be a f'ormidabln task for the unranknd Providence squad. The Irish hold a 7-0 edge in regular sc'ason mat.rh­ups with the Friars. 

c)aim,,~,s, ~~: 
ltiB'1iiiy WBB~ 

The following events are open to the public and your participation is encouraged: 
Keynote Speaker: Dr, Margaret Bender " T~ursday, Feb~uary 3, 2000, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, 7:00 p.m. Sexual Ide?t.Jty: Anthropolog1cal and Personal Reflections" is the topic of the lecture by Dr. Margaret Bender. Dr. Bender IS currently a professor of anthropology at the University of Oklahoma. (A reception will follow.) 
Alumnae Panel: Friday. February 4. 2000 . Fr~day, February 4_, 2000, Dalloway's Coffeehouse, SMC Clubhouse, 4:00 p.m. Samt ~ary s al~mnae ~rom vanous years gather to discuss their life experiences while in college and since graduation. This ~u~tlon-and-answer forum entitled "Alumnae Perspectives qn ldentity and Sexual Orientation: SMC and Beyond will be an honest look at ourselves and our own environment. (A reception will follow.) 
Admission is free Discussions follow each event 
This week is sponsored by: People !n Support (PI~S), GA:LA-ND/SMC, the_ Office of the Dean of Faculty, the Philosophy, Psychology, Soc10logy, Women s Studies, Just.Jee Educat10n & English Departments, and the Feminist Collective 


ltTODAY!(sl, 
Me.n.'s Tennis 
vs. West Virginia 
7:30 m Joyce Center 


Tuesday, February l, 2000 The Obser-ver . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 31 Soccer star 65 Sir's partner Hamm
1 Laddie's love 66 Long ago 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON rnIS putting off doing. 00000 5 Vehicles with . 32 Dined 67 Heavy-plus DAY: Lisa Marie Presley; Jessica Sav­VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel 33 Time-tested itch, Princess Stephanie, Terry Jones, opportunities must be taken advan­
bells 68 The "I" in "The 
Jayj Jacobs, Clark Gable, Sherilyn tage of. Don't confide in relatives or
10 Nursery item 37 facto King and I" 
Fenn, Sherman Hemsley friends when it comes to your per­
40 Really liked, 
14 "Tell the 69 Gusto Happy Birthday: You'll be emo­sonal life. Delays concerning mail 
man
marines!" 70 Post office tional, giving, understandipg and and correspondence are probable. 15 French 41 Redding of R&B gizmo admired by others this year. Your 00 42 Hardly generous attitude will bring you help LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Extrav­
assembly 71 Fall in April? 
gentlemanly in return. You can develop a greater agance is likely. Your lover may cost
16 Operatic 
bond between yourself an~ other you more than necessary. Don't lend heroine DOWN family members this year. You will money or possessions to female 
47 Kou/ax's was 
2.76
17 Big lat mouth 1 Chinese fruit have to learn to accept the inevitable friends. Put your energy into your
48 Writer 
and remain positive even when work.0000
18 Delaware Indian tree
BlountTr:""' 
things don't go according to plan. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You
whose name is 2 Vehicle for Duke 
49 Less trying Your numbers: 5, 13, 20, 34, 37, 44 can discuss future plans with your
French for "a Ellington
53 Reach ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your lover today. Short pleasure trips or
friend" 
3 Positions of best investment will be property. outings will be conducive to such55 Bounders
19 Diving bird equilibrium Take the time to look at your options. talks. You may overreact to personal
57 Miracle­
20 Like some 4 Frosh follower Consider joint ventures. Females situations. 000
(lawn products 
purchases 5 Wave of may present you with opportunities. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.
brand) 
00000 21): You may find that evading issues 
23 Hustle destruction
58 Unharmed TAURUS (April 20-May 20): will backfire on you today. Lay your 24 Taking the 61 Roentgen's 6 Tears Romance should develop wl:iile on cards on the table and hope for the booby prize discovery 7 Put on business trips or if you attend lec­best. You may be misinterpreted if 
25 Two trios (pretend) tures. You can sign contracts and for­you aren't precise. 000
64 "Smoke Gets in 
mulate agreements that will eventu­CAPRICORN (Dec. 22•Jan. 19):
29 Line of trousers Your Eyes," e.g. 8 Doll's cry 
ally bring you prosperity. 000 Someone may be trying to under­
9 Adds gradually 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You mine you. Be frank when talking to ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Flower part can make financial gains through superiors or colleagues. Don't leave 
11 Earth Summit calculated investments or dealing any room for misunderstandings. Puzzle by Richard Hughes with other people's money. Secret 000
T I F -=-t-"!""t-e":T":-1-= S P host, 1992 
affairs may lead you in an undigni­AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
E V I ,...,.+,....+---+-e~ D E A 12 Words 36 Children's 51 Title bandit in a 59 Isle of exile 
fied direction. 000 Investments appear to be dubious.
Christmas wish Verdi opera 
60 Persian poet CANCER (June 21-July 22): Prior Be cautious wli.om you trust with 13 Shut out 37 Notion 52 Dennis of the investments can pay off now. You your hard-earned cash. Don't be too
61 The Affair
21 Apple growth will enjoy the compan}' of children if eager to lend to others. 0000
R A R ::::_~:+_::~+-s 38 Harbor city 
L preceding a kiss N.8.A. 
(1797 imbroglio) 
retardant you/ursue activities they are inter­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You
39 Kind of team 54 To this point 
62 Fish eggs este in. Self-improvement projects may find it diffic:ult to relate to your
22 Peruse 43 Soprano's song, 55 West Pointer 63 _ longa, vita will be successful. 000 partner. Listen to his or her concerns •26 Pucker­
maybe LEO Quly 23-Aug. 22): You will but don't voice your thoughts. You 
56 Drink flavoring brevis
producing 44 Like some items accomplish the most if you can work can't win today, so keep a low profile. 27 Needle holder out of your home today. Catch up on 00
on a grocery 
those domestic chores you have been
28 Caddie's bagful store receipt Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 30 School for 45 Cousin of a are available by touch-tone phone: 
Birthday Baby: You are confident, knowing and full of surprises. You ~ British princes wapiti 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). charm those you encounter and contribute to any organization that you JOID .,.,.+-=:+.Ac:+:P,-1 31 Traveling trio 46 Soviet news Annual subscriptions are available for the throughout your life. You can be stubborn, but success will be yours if you 
learn to compromise.
0 N -=+-=+=+e::+.,:-, E N O 34 Mini-whirlpool agency best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com,
S E R --1...:;.J..;..:..L..~ S S T 35 Flop 50 Large lizard years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
eugenialast.com, utromate.com.} 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
TrlE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q ... Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name 
Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EIUC..SOAA'< I Al'\13.ER.iov CO¥,?l-~TEL'< $\J'i,l.~\SE.t> t'tE. Wt\~T ::r; •••'I 'wr-.t-.11 To Sb.Y \S••• 
Fox TRor 

BEFOllE WE 6E.61N 
PLAYING "l WANT To SE A MILLIONAIRE,.. 
LET'S ME.ET OUR FIRST 
CONTESTANT, 
Ro&ER Fox. 
You~ \\MR \~ LlKE 'IW~ 11\U.. , l''i.llt'I.~ 1',~D &\J~~y 
TELL OS A WELL, LET'S 
LITTLE SIT SEE••. I HA'IIE 
ABouT THREE 1<1DS.•• 
YOURSELF, l WAS AN ROGER. EN6Ll'SH MAJ'oR IN COLLE&E•.• .,....--::::: I 
0 2000 9111 lvnlndJOlsl by l.mef1el ~ Syn«att 
Tl-lAT'S ENou6H FoR NOW, Ro&ER. 
THANk' YOU. 
ANO "<OIJR 1..t<:.~••• !)Cl ~',\O~i l\lJD $"1\Jt-\?l' 
BILL AMEND 
OUR FIRST HEY! '\'OU QUESTION J'UST COMES FRoM SWITCHED THE ANNALS THE CARDS! 
D 
oF ADV ANCEO I MATHEMATICS ... 
.. 
\ 

beam.1@nd.edu 


Record setter 
Diver 1/erbie Huesman set a school record in the 3-meter diving event in Notre Dame ·s victory over Oakland. 
page 21
PORTS 
Huesman 
O
HIE 
page 24 BSERVER Tuesday, February I, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame looks for its 14th-straight victory 
By KERRY SMITH A..1i,r:1m Sporrs EJicor 
Two years ago, the Providence Friars traveled to Notrn Dame only to suffer a 49-point loss at the hands of the Irish. 
Last season. the Irish traveled to Providenre and repeated their ste.llar performance in their ser.ies with the Friars with a 38-point victory. Crushing their Big East rival at home, the Irish showed no mercy as they left Rhode Island with a 97-59 win. 
This season, the Irish are travelling to Providence again with the same game plan. 
Taking the court against the Friars tonight. the Irish are looking for their 14th straight win in an attPmpt to extend their longest winning streak in nine seasons. 
Holding fast to an undefeated confer­enr.e record. the 17-2 Irish sharp the top spot in the Gig East with the Connecticut Huskies. The Irish will face the Huskies in their toughest test of the season at the end of February, but first they must take on Providence on unfa­miliar turf. 
Irish guards !\!iele Ivey and Danielle Green have combined to form a power­ful back court duo and have led the Irish all season and will continue to run the offense against Providence. Ivey, at the point, leads the team in steals and assists and Green has stepped up in recent games to become a scoring machine. 
Ivey powered the Irish squad in their largest victory of the season Saturday over Georgetown with 18 points and five steals. 
see HOOPS/page 22 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
No. 23 Irish complete-undefeated dual meet season 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Saint Mary's Editor 
If last week's victory over No. 9 :\Jorthwestern taught the Notre Dame women's swim team anything. it was that l'\otre Dame could pull out the close <mes. 

The tim­ing couldn't have been better. With their final dual m e c t against No. 8 Michigan 
only a week Suddarth away. No. 23 Notre Oame needed a little bit of encourngement -and a big boost of confidence. 
With an unbeaten dual meet record and their first victory 
• 
against a top 10 team all sea­son. the Irish had little to worry about. 
Until Friday night. 
Entering a weekend with arguably their two most impor­tant dual meets of the season on the slate, Michigan walked into their meet with Northwestern and made a statement -they weren't going to lose. llanding the Wildcats a solid defeat, sudden­ly, that top 10 victory for Notre Dame was looking less and less sturdy. 
"We thought we had a chance when we looked at their meet results a couple of wePks ago," said women's. head coach Bailey Weathers. "When we knew they beat Northwestern, we didn't change the meet at all. but we were surprised. They swam a lot faster than they had all season." 
But the Irish knew how tu 
pull out the close ones. 
They had never defeated the Wolverines in match history, and no women's swim team has ever gone undefeated in regular season. With both meet odds and history stacked against them, the Irish got an unexper.ted blessing -the Wolverines were tired. 
"It can be pretty hard to swim Friday and Saturday," Weathers said. "They had not swam anybody this tough all season. These were big dual meets for them, and they swam the best they could. We were as good as wr, were all season." 
If not br,tter. 
The Irish won 11 of 16 events to hand thr: Wolverines a deci­sive defeat 170-128. 
Sophomore Kelly lier.king led the Irish with three wins. post­ing victories in the 100 back­stroke, 200 backstroke. and accompanied Allison Lloyd, Elizabeth Barger and Carrie Nixon to win the 200 medley relay. The squad also found support in double wins from junior distance swimmer Kristen Van Saun. who swept the distance freestyle events. Barger captured the 100 but­terfly, and Nixon out touched Michigan's Jennifer Crisman for a win in the 50 freestyle. Shannon Suddarth posted a win in the 200 breastroke. and Alison Newell grabbed another first place finish in the 200 but­terlly. 
The Irish also held strong on the boards, with senior Gina Ketelhohn cleaning up the one and three meter diving events for the team. Ketel hohn ·s score of 283.12 was enough to set a school record for the Irish, eclipsing sophomore Ileather Ma1.tingly's mark of 282.12 in October or 1998. 
Maintaining their lead 
throughout the meet, while going undefeated was in the back or their minds. it was nothing they had been striving for all season. Weathers said. 
"It was a possibility, but it wasn't one of our goals." Weathers said. "That's the kind of goal that you set yourself up to fail with. Being perfect for each dual meet is hard to do. Our goal was just not to lose first semester." 
With the undefeated record behind them. the record doesn't change much in thr. team's approach to Big East Championships. held Feb. 17­20 in UniondalP, N.Y. 
"Our goal is always to win conference." Weathers said. "But the kids are very, very confident. This is the first undefoated women's swim team at Notre Dame. Beating these two top 10 teams back to back is a big step." 
Men's Tennis at Kalamazoo at Ohio State 
~V,
'{½. 
"~::::::i..' Michigan State Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
SPORTS rtf1 sr, --..,~ 
Today, 3:15 p.m. 
ATA 
Fencing
at Providence Wesr Virginia 
M' 
ar Northwestern
Today, 7:00 p.m. Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 
Samrday, all day
GLANCE • 


