

Fun in the sun 
Hey Spain, want Florida back? 
Wanna go South for Spring Break? 
As the hoopla around Election 2000 
Wednesday
Check out Scene's review ofhelpful 
continues. Bush considers cabinet members 
Websites to find all-inclusive packages . 
and Gore disputes voting results. 
NOVEMBER 29, 
Scene . page 10-11 
News . page 3 & 7 
2000 
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 61 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Donning the Collar 
A Notre Dame commission examines the possibility of ordinating women. Is the ordination of female priests closer than ever or still light years away? 

By MAUREEN SMITHE Assistant News Editor 
When accounting professor Ken Milani was abroad in the United Kingdom several years ago, he encountered a moment of truth, which led him to the Commission on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women upon his return to the University. 
"There was a statue honor­ing a man who was put to death by the clergy because he translated the Bible into English," Milani said. "The Church isn't always right." 
The Past 
Created in 1989, the Commission was established in response to a letter sent to a Notre Dame faculty mem­ber. The letter indicated that a woman was interested in joining the Catholic clergy, but was obviously unable to be ordained. 
In response, several faculty members from all of the University's colleges came together to keep the discus­sion about women's ordina­tion alive on campus, espe­cially because the University refuses to maintain an official position on the issue. The Committee is informal and not 

South Bend systeID aiIDs to stop cri01e 
By MAUREEN SMITHE Assistant News Editor 
When Notre Dame junior John Bodnovich moved off-campus this fall, he was aware of the safety con­cerns associated with living beyond the friendly con­
fines of the gold­en dome. However, Bodnovich. like many of his off­campus counter­parts, was unaware of a community-


policing network Bodnovlch working throughout South Bend. 
Established in 1997 as a means of improving the relationship between citizens and the police department, the program attempts to address the many causes of crime and the fear associated with it. 
Lieutenant Dick Powers of the South Bend Police Department said the objective of community policing 
officially sanctioned by the University. University presi­dent Father Edward Malloy refused to comment on the issue. 
"We're looking for a more inclusive ministry in the Catholic Church," Milani said. "Notre Dame is a place where the Church does its thinking." 
Committee members ques­tion the meaning behind the Church's refusal to grant women access to the priest­hood. 
"It bespeaks a negative atti­tude toward women," said Regina Coll, professional spe­cialist of Theology. "Is there something wrong with being female?" 
The Present 
Today the Commission has 15 active faculty members from most of the University's colleges. Discussion is their main goal. Commission ·mem­bers strive to push the issue forward through sponsoring three events each semester, including panel discussions, prayer services and lectures. 
The Commission sponsored a lecture Nov. 14 by Mark Roche. He discussed the rela­tionship between intellectuals and religion, encouraging people to qustion their faith in order to strengthen it. 
is three-fold: emphasizing partner­ship, problem solving and preven­tion. 
"The Three P's really put together what our definition of community policing is," Powers said. "It is us and the community working togeth­er." 
The program operates under the understanding that crime is a com­munity-wide problem, not just a duty of the police department. Everyone can contribute to a safe neighborhood. 
Although he is not directly involved in community policing, Bodnovich and his fellow off-cam­pus student neighbors keep an eye on what is going on around their block. 
"We are pretty friendly with our neighbors. We are always watching their houses and they are always checking ours," Bodnovich said. "I've heard of neighborhood watch­es, but I'm not aware of one being officially implemented here." 
Bodnovich recalled an instance where one neighbor tackled a potential bike thief. rescuing anoth­er neighbor's bike from the pawn­
"Our presentations are usu­ally on the issue of women in ministry. We are keeping the educational lines open." Coll said. 
Members of the Commission maintain arguments in sup­port of women's ordination. Most talk of the Church's reliance on tradition as their main stumbling block. Milani said that the Church has changed tradition in several instances, including moving from Latin to English mass. Coll said that Popes, bishops and nuns held slaves in the past, a tradition long since abandoned. 
"We hold onto traditions. It is important to hold onto tra­ditions, but we have let go of many traditions," Coll said. "We are in the process of cre­ating traditions" 
Other arguments against women's ordination exist, all of which the Commission has a viable counterargument for. 
"The original argument that Rome gave when they issued the rule was that Jesus did not ordain women, which is true, but Jesus did not ordain anvone," Coll said. 
i"n addition to discussing women's ordination, the Committee also looks to 
see WOMEN/page 4 

shop. 
It is instances such as this where the benefits of community policing are obvious. 
An essential element of communi­ty policing is the neighborhood watch system. Volunteer residents serve as block captains, relaying information regarding area crime from the police department to the neighborhood. 
At a crime prevention seminar held earlier this year for off-cam­pus students, Corporal Patty Byrd outlined the duties of a block cap­tain. 
"They receive automated phone messages of felony arrests, assaults and burglaries that happen in their neighborhood," Byrd said. "Neighborhood watch is one of the most successful means of prevent­ing crime in your neighborhood." 
In addition to neighborhood watch, the police department also offers a citizens police academy. The 10-week course gives residents and off-campus students an oppor­tunity to learn and experience sev­
see SYSTEM/page 4 
Photo Art by PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 

Robinson: God­


based service good for all 
By KATIE KELLEHER 
News Writer 

God-based service is something everyone could benefit from, said Dr. Jim Robinson Tuesday night at Saint Mary's. 
Robinson travels abroad with Health Care Ministries to provide dental care to poor vil­lagers. He spoke about his personal experiences with God and service. 
"I am an ordinary man," Robinson said, but he insisted that serving others is something anyone could do. 
Robinson has been to more than 25 countries and has taken teens and colle'ge students on ser­vice trips around the world. 
Robinson told stories from his travels in Honduras. 
"We used a second grade classroom," he said. "People traveled overnight from neighboring towns to wait in line at 5 a.m. The line was so long that many would be forced to wait till the 
see ROBINSON/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, November 29, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Yup, I'm back. 
I went home to battle bacteria and infection, 
and have reigned victorious. Yay me. 
Home was a different experience. Since I was 
not expected to be home, my brother and father 
had made previous plans 
in California and my mom, 
who had decided to stay 
and !inish her Master's 
degree. was going to be in 
and out of the house. It 
wasn't going to be the 
usual Hager thanksgiving. 
but it didn't matter. 
I wanted to go home so 

much. For the previous 
four weeks all I thought 
about was the great feeling 
of being able to relax and 
just be home. The thought 
made me happy. It offered 
a chance for me to sit in 
my room and do absolutely 
nothing. Absolutely nothing. How appealing. 
Once home, I set up camp in the family room. 
Braving the steps to my bedroom was just too 
much for my tired lungs to handle. So, I set up 
camp on the couch. I basically was glued to the 
couch -along with a pillow. the remote, and a 
box of Kleenex. These few objects in addition to 
the necessity ofmy pillow. my special blanket and 
my poodle -three things that go wherever I go. 
I think I was awake a total of five hours the first 
five days I was home. I would wake up, roll over, 
take drugs, roll back over and sleep. But, after 
getting past the acute stages or illness, I was 
awake enough to think about things and eat solids 
-the novelty of being able to sleep all day ran 
out. I kept thinking: I want to go back home. The 
funny thing, I was already home, but it wasn't 
home home. I was in Arizona. my friends were 
away at school, my family was gone. and my 
mother was somewhere studying. And it occurred 
to me; Sierra Vista just wasn't home without my 
family. It wasn't my home. I grew up there; my 
parents reside there. I live in South Bend. I work 
in South Bend. South Bend is Kelly's home home. I 
vacation in Arizona. 
Maybe it didn't feel like home was because I wasn't coherent enough to enjoy it. I wasn't able to get out and see old friends or eat my mom's cooking. I couldn't even walk the dog. All very dis­tinct things I enjoy doing when I get to go home. My father wasn't there to wait on me by making the special milkshakes that only he can make and playing board games over a cup of tea. And, my brother wasn't there to steal the remote and do obnoxious things to me while I slept. The classic "Kelly's home and sleeping on the couch let's try to wake her up things." Oh, how I missed them. Being sick without Justin was no fun. 
So, probably earlier than I should have, I came back. I missed my friends, I missed putting on my warm winter coat, and I missed the double ring. I was homesick ... and what better way to cure a homesick soul than going home? My home, my South Bend home. 
This isn't to say that I regret making the deci­sion to go back to Arizona. I needed to be there. It is my getaway place -my get better place. But after a little bit of time at home I was rejuvenated and ready to move -not feeling totally up to par. but ready to go back to Indiana to see friends and maybe even attend a class or two. 
So, what am I saying? I guess my Arizona home vacations just aren't effective unless filled with my stinky brother, my good-hearted father and mom, minus the books. And, South Bend will always be my home, because home is where your heart is. 
Notre Dame versus Sierra Vista. 
Who'd you rather? 
Go frish. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not nece1,:sarily those ofThe Obsemer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Laura Rompf Laura Kelly Kelly Hager Graphics 
Liz Zanoni Jose Cuellar Sports Production 
Kathleen O'Brien Rachael Proczman Viewpoint Lab Tech Lane Herrington Pete Richardson 
The Ob,erver (USPS 59\1 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday «c~pt during ex,m rnd vacadon f"'<iod,. The Observer is a member of the As~oc1.iud Jlr,ess. AH rcproJuciion rights arc reserv<"d. 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Concert: Notre Dame  . Event: "Brandywine  
Concert Band, 7 p.m.,  Christmas Poinsettia  
Washington Hall  Showcase," featuring  
. Lecture: "Catholic  wreaths and bouquets,  
Perspectives on ROTC." Fr.  8 a.m. to 10 p.m.,  
Tom Doyle and Fr. Rill  Botanical Conservatory,  
Dorwart, 7 p.m.,  South Bend  
Center for Social Concerns  

Friday 
. Play: Shakespeare's "Comedy of Errors," 
7:30 p.m., Auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, Notre Dame 
Saturday 
. Festival: "Trinity School Christmas Extravaganza," 
8:30 a.m. to 2 p.m., Trinity School Sports Complex, South Bend 
. Event: Drawing work­shop, 1 p.m, St. Joseph's Library, South Bend 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Ohio State riot causes $80,000 in damages 

COLUMBUS 

Columbus police estimate that the riots after the OSU-Michigan football game last week will cost Columbus taxpayers more than $80,000. With exact figures still undetermined, there is no clue yet exactly how much the police department actually spent combating the post-game rioters. 
"The riot last April cost us about $80,000. This riot will most likely exceed that." said police spokesman Sgt. Earl Smith. "Anytime we talk about extra manpower, that adds up in a heartbeat." 
Columbus police are still unsure how much money was spent quelling the riots on 13th Avenue in October, but believe the damage done to squad cars during that incident might push its cost total higher than the more recent disturbance. 
Smith cited overtime, equipment costs, the cost of food and refresh­ments for officers and patrol cars as the major expenses for the police department in potentially dangerous situations like the one that took place 
CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
Wrestler dies of heart condition 
As members of the Cornell community continued to cope with the loss of Graham Morin, who passed away during a Saturday afternoon wrestling practice, more details emerged Monday regarding the medical cause of his death. An autopsy revealed that Morin suffered from Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy (HCM), according to Sharon Dittman, associate director of community relations with Gannett Medical Center. HCM is char­acterized by a thickening of the walls of the heart, which results in an obstruction to blood flow through the left ventricle outflow tract. The result can be fainting spells. shortness of breath and heart arrhyth­mia. "Unfortunately, most people with HCM are asymptomatic," Dittman said. "For many, the first sign may be cardiac arrest and sudden death." "There are only 10 to 25 deaths due to cardiac causes in ath­letes every year, and HCM is only a small fraction of that, so that gives you a sense of how rare this condi­tion really is," Dittman added. It is estimated that one out of every 1,000 Americans has HCM. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather forec.JSt for d.tytime conditions and high tempemtures 
Thursqtay Friday! Satur~ay Sunda,y 
Mo"d'ay 
,­


4,Q,~q~Q (f ~ u 
Showers f.storms Rain Aurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vi,_ AsS(}(}iatad Ptess GmphicsNst 

during the early morning of Nov. 28. 
The Columbus Division of Police was forced to staff several hundred more officers than usual that night in order tu maintain a presence around the campus. Instead of pulling offi­cers from other areas of the city. the police department simply added more police officers to the shift. The extra work meant most of the officers received overtime pay, ranging any­where from time-and-a-half to dou­ble their regular salary. 
However, as the conflicts pro• gressed during the aftermath of the OSU-Michigan game, even those extra officers were not enough. Eventually, the police department did call for backup, a move which left other parts of the city without ade­quate protection. 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
Families being priced out of college 
Perhaps the idea of keeping a "savings jar" to pay for college may not be a bad idea after all. according to a new economic survey co-authored by University of California-Berkeley Haas School of Business Dean Laura Tyson. UPromise, Inc., a college savings net­work, released the study earlier this month. It deals with the economic effect paying for college has on fam­ily finances. Although it costs $122,350 for an average family to send a child to a university, families are only saving $14,780, the study found. "In today's economy, we know that 'what you earn depends on what you learn,"' Tyson said. "That's why a college education is so important today." The study goes beyond research­ing rising tuition rates and examines the dramatic effect college costs have on consumers' quality of life, standard of living and retirement security. "Two of the goals of this study [are to summarize the rate of return to college as well as document tuition growth," said Dr. Peter Orszag, a UC Berkeley professor of economics who co-authored the report. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

<!ll 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Preuu~:  
®©  ..~...  
High  Low  Showera  Rain  T-atotm1,  Flurrlua  Snow  lc:e  Sunny  Pl. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Atlanta  63  39  Las Vegas  76  58  Portland  56  37  
Baltimore  59  31  Memphis  57  37  Sacramento  56  38  
Boston  47  27  Milwaukee  38  21  St. LOUIS  45  22  
Chicago  38  28  New York  42  32  Tampa  58  42  
Houston  64  53  Philadelphia  42  29  Washington DC 43  30  


.., Wednesday, November 29, 2000 The Observer . ELECTION 2000 page 3 
Cheney wants to keep health issues private 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Dick Cheney said Tuesday night he was back at work full­time with his doctor's approval, fef'ling fine after his fourth heart attack and determined to keep at least some parts of his suddenly public anatomy pri­vate. 
"I think we have been verv forth-corning," said Cheney. 59, asked on CNN's "Larry King Live" about criticism that he has not made public his health records. 
'"There may be a few people out there who still want to look at certain parts of my anatomy we've not yet revealed, but I'm going tu keep part of it private," he said. 
Cheney, George W. Bush's run­ning mate who is leading his transition effort, checked into a Washington hospital last week for chest pains. Doctors revealed he had suffered a slight heart attack and he underwent surgery. Cheney had three heart attacks more than a decade ago and had quadruple bypass· surgery in 1988 to clear clogged arteries. 


He said doctors gave him a clean bill of health after unusual medical scrutiny when Bush chose him as his running mate this summer. 
"There was a more thorough scrub on my medical history than on any of the other candidates, l think, that were considered fur vice president probably in either party this year," he said. 
But Cheney has refused to release his past medical records. Asked about calls for him to he more forthcoming with his health history, he said: "There isn't much about my physical capabili­ties and history that aren't known. I've seen my coronary arteries diagramed on the front page of major newspapers all over America." 
Cheney said his health won't affect his travel should he become vice president. More than anything, a 50-50 split in the Senate would keep him in Washington more, he said. The vice president presides as Senate president and can cast a tie­breaking vote. 
"l could end up having to spend a lot of time in the U.S. Senate as vice president rather than travel­ing the world attending funerals of foreign leaders," he said. 
Bush, Gore plea to Supreme Court 
. Governor asks Court to end crisis, declare winner 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Supreme Court should "forestall an impending constitu­tional crisis" over Florida's 25 electoral votes, lawycrs for George W. Bush argued Tuesday, while Al Gore's lawyers said the court should not inter­fere. 
Bush, whose appeal the high court is set to hear Friday, said the justices can bring "legal fmality" to the presidential elec­tion by overturning the Florida courts and ending any further ballot recount,;;. 
Florida's decisive 25 electoral votes wore awarded to Bush on Sunday night. Gore is fighting to overturn results of the Florida election and claim those elec­toral votes, and with them the White House. 
"By acting now to reject the Florida Supreme Cowi's w1war­ranted intrusion into the regula­tion of the manner of appointing electors, this court will eliminate the potential for a constitutional crisis," over who picks the elec­tors and how, Bush's lawyers wrote. 
Florida's Republican-led Legislature opened hearings Tuesday into the possibility of selecting its own slate of presi­dential electors. With the legal status of the Florida election still in limbo, it is possible that two different sots of electors could claim legitimacy in Florida. 
"Reversal by this Court would restore the legislatively crafted method for appointing electors in Florida to its status prior to Nov. 7, would allow the completion of the proper seh~ction uf presiden­tial electors in Florida according to the plan contemplated by the Constitution, and would aid in bringing legal finality to this elec­tion," Bush's attorneys wrote. 
Gore's team called the Republican arguments "insub­stantial" and said the Florida court "played a familiar and quintessentially judicial role" in interpreting state law. They asked the justicns to affirm the ruling and avoid trampling on what is supposed to be a matter of state law. 
"Principles of federalism cow1­sel strongly against interference by this court," the Gore legal team said in il'> brief. 
At the same time, the vice president is asking a Florida judge to undo the secretary of state's certification that Bush is the winner. That certification came after the Supreme Court agreed to take Bush's appeal. 
It is not clear how a high court decision would affect the case now. 
"It's very complicated and I don't think anyone knows for sure," said Gore lawyer Laurence Tribe. 
If the justices think they do not have enough left to decide, they could opt not to hear the case after all. Bush's filings Tuesday, however, argued that the court still has a role to play. 
Bush asked the justices to overturn a Florida Supreme Court ruling that allowed hand recounting of votes to continue past a state imposed deadline of Nov. 14, saying tho manual reviews opened tho door for Democrat Gore to continue legal contests for weeks more. 
"The Florida Supreme Court's decision, which conflicts with both federal statutes and the fed­eral Constitution, will thus con­tinue to affect, and has the theo­retical potential to change, the outcome of the presidential elec­tion in Florida, and thus the nation," Bush argued. 
He wants the results of ballots recounted since Nov. 14 omitted from the official state election tally. That would give Bush a 930-vote margin instead of his current 537-vote lead. 
Bush attorneys argued that the Florida high court violated the Constitution by extending a "clear" vote recount deadline set in law by the state Legislature to ensure proper election of the state's representatives to the Electoral College. 


Thursday, November 30th Lafortune Ballroom 10pm -lam 
The fast growirlg jam band from Chicago 
returns to their Notre Dame roots for a rare all ages treat Don't 
•

miss tl1is char1ce to see them ir1 ar1 up-close
·~ t 
intimate environmer1t 


Tix available at the Lafortune box office 
www.nd.edu/ ~sub st11dents $5 Pt1blic 
page 4 Wednesday, November ;29, 2000
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
fident of the presence of God. "In faith, admitting, "I didn't know if I prayed for him. include service. the trips I have taken I have seen believed in God." "I felt the presence of God "Allow God to use you for his
Robinson 

amazing and wonderful things." Still unsure of his belief's, embracing me and loving me, and glory. We have so much and it is said Hobinson. "I can tell you Robinson questioned his mission it changed my life," he said. At so easy to get immersed in it all,"
continued from page 1 

without any doubt that God and purpose during his first trip that moment he said his purpose he said. "In our country, we have next day." exists." abroad. He broke down to a in life was clear. "My job was to everything the world has to offer. 
Despite some difticult situations But he did not always have this friend during the bus ride to the help people with physical needs But because God has blessed and that Robinson faced during his strong faith in God. Robinson village. The group of volunteers and to share the word of God." loved us, He also tells us to use journeys, he said he remains con-described how his difiicult child­gathered around him and placed Robinson encouraged everyone these gifts to help others." 
hood caused him to question his their hands on his head and to reexamine his or her lives to 
Women 
continued from page I 
women's current vital roles within the Church. Committee member and Lyons Hal! rector Sister Kathleen Beatty said that there are a number of parishes in the United States where women are serving as active pastors 
The Committee also dis­cusses .activism on campus for or against women's ordi­nation. Although no students are currently involved, their participation is welcome. 
"A good number of stu­dents support the ordination of women, but there is a good number who don't," Beatty said. ''I would say there is a good, healthy per­centage of people on the fac­ulty and staff who believe we should keep the discussion 
SysteID 
continued from page I 
eral facets of the police department. Since its intro­duction, the academy has had 158 graduates. 
"It is one of the best inter­active, collaborative and information-sharing pro­grams we do with the com­munity," Powers said, citing the academy's open forum atmosphere. 
Community policing does not focus solely on crime. Powers said that a major goal of the program is to improve the quality of life for all South Bend area resi­dents. Overgrown lots, aban­doned cars and broken streetlights can all be addressed through the pro­
gram. 

"Police officers can request for city departments to come look at a [quality of life] problem. and within 10 working days it can be addressed," Powers said. "Quality of life issues are just as important as law enforce­ment issues." 
Non-criminal activity can also be addressed through 

comm unity policing. For said. "They arc there to example, officers check things out."
can .------......--.. 
Jtigb jtibe 
www.irisnwear.co.m 
alive." 
The Future 
There is a wide range of estimates within the Commission as to when women will be allowed into the Koman Catholic clergy, but one thing is certain: members believe it will hap• pen eventually. 
"I would certainly hope in the next 15 years we will see [women serving as priests]." Beatty said. 
"It's not going to happen under John Paul, that's for sure. I am 60 years old, and I hope to have it happen in my lifetime," Milani said. "I 
never  thought the  Berlin  
WaII  would  come  down  
either."  

Others said they do not see any changes in the immedi• ate future. 
"I am sure that women will be ordained within the next 50 or 60 years," Coll said. 
respond to residents who are concerned about a street with frequent speed limit offenses. 
The South Bend Police Department's community policing network has received high acclaim since its introduction just three years ago. Earlier this year, South Bend was named a mentor site for cities in the northern third of Indiana looking to establish .commu­nity policing. In addition, the Community Oriented Policing Consortium, an organization based out of Washington DC, chose South Bend as a train­ing site. 
"We took this idea from several communities, includ­ing• from the Department of Justice in Washington DC," Powers said. "We were able to customize it for our own community and needs. We a re always trying to improve." 
The many benefits associ­ated with community polic­ing serve to alleviate some of the concerns off-campus stu­dents feel about living in a community different from their own at home. 
"We definitely see the police presence." Bodnovich 

It's lime 10 aetv1ur ACE IPPIICatlonl 
Stop by 109 Badin or go to www.nd.edu/~ace. 
enormous 
FLEECE 
Selectio 

Sminut from OUTPOST 
Campus s ors 
C >lllll .,.,¦ In IIWWJ'-N 

Ca/l 259-1000 for more details 
Most ND) Stude.nts Make H.ealthv· Choices i 
1 ·[ 'ia 
,2 
J 
f 
i 
l

More than 80% drink only once 
i 

a week or less frequently. 
Many ND students choose 5 NOT to drink alcohol.* 'j 
A message from PILLARS with Alcohol & Drug Education 311 LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame (219) 631-7970 http://www.nd.edu/~aldrug/ 

The Asian American Association presents: 

Saturday, December 2nd  $3 for students  
Washington Hall  $5 for non-students  
7:30 pm  $5 at the door  

Tickets on sale at the LaFortune Info Desk Clothing fron1 the Bop, Gingiss, and Petite Sophisticated 

ATION 
Wednesday, November 29, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Dutch first to legalize euthanasia: 
The Dutch parliament approved a bill legaliz­ing euthanasia Tuesday, positioning the Netherlands to become the first nation to opc1nly let doctors help suffering patients end their lives. Advocates of patients' right to die voiced praise for the vote, but many Christian groups and others condemned it, led by the Vatican, which said the law "violates human dignity." Dutch officials stressed that foreign­ers would be unable to meet strict standards under the law for allowing euthanasia. 
Iranians disapprove of Khatami: 
Iranian hard-liners harshly criticized moder­ate President Mohammad Khatami for accus­ing them of constitutional violations, saying it was part of a ploy to win re-election next year, newspapers reported Tuesday. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Scientists debate biotech corn: 
Opponents of biotech food urged the govern­ment in Washington Tuesday not to allow a variety of genetically engineered corn to be used in food despite industry claims that the grain poses no risk to consumers. The. corn, which was only supposed to be used for ani­mal feed and industrial uses, mistakenly entered the food supply, prompting recalls of taco shells and disruptions in grain handling. To avoid further problems, the corn's devel­oper. Aventis CropScience, has asked the Environmental Protection Agency to tem­porarily approve its use in food. 
U.S. bans Chinese clothing: 
Attacking the use of forced child labor, the Customs Service on Tuesday ordered that all men's and girl's clothing manufactured by the Chinese-owned textile company in Mongolia. Dong Fang Guo Ji, be stopped at the U.S. bor­der. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Court finds checkpoints unconsti­tutional : The Indiana Court of Appeals took away a key police tool in the fight against drunken driving, ruling that sobriety check­points violate the state's constitution. The Indiana State Police suspended the road­blocks in response to the court's decision ear­lier Tuesday. "As of right now, the Indiana State Police will not be conducting sobriety checkpoints," said 1st Sgt. Scott Beamon. The Indiana Association of Chiefs of Police recom­mended that local police agencies stop using checkpoints out of respect for the ruling. 
Market Watch 11/28 

Dow 
10,507.58 -38.49
}ONES 
Composite
Same: Volume:

l,142 497 ·,~
•-·~· -: 
NIA 

AMEX: 'Wij}iW l$ij:,i~~,~:!i1":;;m-1•;fs'1ilrlfN 
Nasdaq: 2734.98 -145.51 
,..,.~st;:~~~~i~i~/i;~l;'!;ti~IMir-1 
S&P 500: 1336.09 -12.88 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURI1Y  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT)  -5.22  -3.1>8  67.00  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -0.49  -0.25  51.00  
fNTEL CORP (INTC)  -4.34  -1.91  42.03  
NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ)  -5.91  -4.11  65.45  
WORl.DCUM INC (WCOM)  -4.43  -0.71  IS.41  

ISRAEL 


Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Israel's parliament voted overwhelmingly Tuesday to hold new elections, after Prime Minister Ehud Barak -his government shaken by two months of street battles with the Palestinians -reluctantly agreed to hard-liners' demands for an early vote. 
Polls have shown elec­tions would be a risky proposition for Barak, as his minority government has been steadily losing support from many Israelis who perceive him as inef­fective in ending the blood­shed. 
However. a vote would probably not be held before spring, giving Barak time for a last-ditch effort to forge a peace agree­ment with the Palestinians. Elections could serve as a referendum on the agree­ment. 
Palestinian officials said they were hopeful an accord could be reached before the elections. 
The 120-member legisla­ture voted separately on five bills calling for early elections. Four of the bills were approved by more than 70 members of the house. Only three legisla­tors were opposed, and the rest abstained. 

The date for elections will be set in the coming days by party leaders. Barak said the vote could be held as late as nine months from now, while several opposition law­makers said they expected elections in May, two years after Barak took office. 
Parliament had settled into a long debate on the five bills Tuesday evening when Barak made an unexpected appearance before the lawmakers. In a speech, Barak announced that he would no longer resist the opposition push for elections. 
"I do not flinch from elections. I say if you want elections, let there be elec­tions for prime minister and for the Knesset," Barak told parliament. 
Throughout the day, Barak saw the opposition gain more and more votes. until it became clear that more than half the mem­bers would vote against him. 
In his speech, Barak blamed opposition leader Ariel Sharon for rejecting his offer to create a unity government. However, in a later TV interview, Barak also acknowledged that he had "made mistakes." 
Polls have indicated that if elections were held now, Barak would be defeated. 
RUSSIA 

Grozny Chechens mourn market 
"I had goods there worth about the rebels in their attacks. 
Associated Press 

$1,500 -for me that is a lot," said According to market workers the 
GROZNY trader Zharadat Agayeva. "I don't soldiers told the traders their foods 
Weeping merchants dug through know how I am going to pay my and goods would be protected once the ruins of the central market in the debts." they were placed in the market capital of rebel Chechnya on Rebel attacks in the capital and storerooms. Tuesday, trying to salvage something elsewhere in Chechnya have been on "But when I locked everything, after Russian military vehicles the rise, with at least 10 soldiers they started to shoot the locks off smashed the stalls into the ground. being killed in the past day, and pro­with machine guns. Soldiers rushed 
Russian authorities had no imme­Russian Chechen officials had inside and pilfered the shelves: diate comment on the decision to warned that bigger actions were sausages, butter, cheese," said Musa destroy the market, a key source of being planned for the Muslim holy Akhmatov, owner of a storeroom. scarce food and supplies in the war­month of Ramadan, which began Another storeroom worker, said shattered city that also provides Monday. soldiers "picked whatever they liked income for thousands of traders try­Russian troops sealed off the mar­and would stash the goods in their ing to struggle their way out of ket on Sunday, fearing that its pres­bags, they would even undress and poverty. ence in the tense capital could assist put on the new clothes." 
page6 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, November 29, 2000 
Activists mark WTO's 
I-year anniversary 
Associated P rcss 
SEATrLE 
The World Trade Organization 

meeting that collapsed in clouds of 
tear gas a year ago is being 
marked by activists this week in a 
city that's now known as much for 
civic haplessness as it is for its good 
coffee and charm. 
The violent anti-WTO street 

protests that overwhelmed police 
on Nov. 30, 1999 left Seattle with 
permanent scars, some say, even 
as it galvanized a growing move­
ment against corporate globaliza­
tion. 
"One of the biggest things we learned with WTO is that Seattle is not Mayberry with high-rises," said City Council member Judy Nicastro. "People don't play nice anymore." 
To mark the one-year anniver­sarv. some 5,000 activists are expected to gather Thursday for "N30," 1.he International Solidarity Day Against Corporate Globalization. 
That number is a fraction of the 50,000 protesters who showed up last year, bent on blocking streets and shutting down the WI'O meet­ing. By the time the tear gas cleared, about 600 people had been arrested, property damage totaled some $3 million, and Seattle had become a global symbol of popular defiance. 
Seattle officials, who'd banked on a civic boost as hosts to the talks, were instead targeted by critics for failing to prepare and for overre­acting to protesters with tear gas, rubber bullets and arrests. 
Soon after, Police Chief Norm 
Stamper announced his early 
retirement. Mayor Paul Schell, 
another target of frequent and 
harsh criticism, has yet to 
announce whether he'll seek 
another term. 
Carlos Lavin, 49, who has lived in 
Seattle for 23 years, said last year's 
demonstrations gave outsiders the 
,,vrong impression. 
"It wasn't good for the city's 
image.. It was very un-Seattlelike," 
Lavin said. "Mv view of Seattle is 
what it's always been. It's a great 
town. But the rest of the country 
probably thinks we're a bunch of 
radicals, which is good because it 
might keep them away from here." 
The impact of the demonstra­tions extended well beyond Seattle as officials in other cities hosting trade and banking conferences sought to avoid repeating the mis­takes of Seattle. 
In Washington, more than 1,300 activists, many of them veterans 01' Seattle WTO, were arrested at the April meeting of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. Last month in British Columbia, organizers citing the Seattle protest scrapped a planned NATO confer­ence over cost and security con­cerns. 
Thousands of anti-globalization protesters also descended on the Democratic convention in Los Angeles, a meeting of the Organization of American States in Windsor, Ontario, and the "G-20" meeting of industrialized and developing nations in Montreal, as well as smaller trade events in Cincinnati, Calgary and elsewhere. 
U.S. promotes cultural diplomacy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Pingpong diplomacy in 1971 smoothed U.S. rela­tions with China. When the United States reached out to a new 

democra­tic South Africa, perform­ers from t h e Dance Theater () f 


H a r le m Albright helped forge diplomacy. As the Cold War thawed, pianist Vladimir Horowitz returned to his native Russia in 1986 to give concerts. 
Culture speaks a univer­sal language and can play a critical role in U.S. relations abroad even where America has no formal diplomatic relations, President Clinton said Tuesday at the first White House Conference on Culture and Diplomacy. 
"Cultural diplomacy does have the power to penetrate our common humanity," Clinton said. 
Glen Miller and other American jazz bands had a positive effect on the morale of U.S. allies during World War II, he said. And singer Elvis Presley did more to win the Cold War when his music was smug­gled into the former Soviet Union than he did as a GI serving in Germany, the 
president added. 

Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, who wore a Navajo bolo ­a symbol of America's early heritage -were joined in the East Room by about 160 authors, artists. diplomats, 
actors, actress­es, poets. business leaders, founda­t i O 11 directors from the United States a n d 
abroad. They talked about the role culture plays in for­eign policy and how cultur­al exchange programs can improve relations among different peoples. 
Joining Clinton and Albright on a 

morning p a n e 1 were: Aga Kha n • 4 9 t h  "Cultural diplomacy does have the power to penetrate our common humanity."  priated for foreign affairs, the White House said. Within  
hereditary  that  frac­ 
imam of the lsmaili Muslim  Bill Clinton President  tion, there has been a 15-year  
communi­ decline  in  
ty. which  support for  

has a following of more State Department cultural than 12 million worldwide; programs. Clinton said he former Poet Laureate of the backs legislation before United States Rita Dove; Congress that would set up cellist Yo-Yo Ma; Giovanna a fund or endowment to Melandri, Italy's minister support State Department's for cultural heritage; Nobel cultural exchange pro­Prize-winning novelist Wole grams. 
Soyinka from Nigeria: and Joan Spero, president of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation in New York and former ambassador to the United Nations for eco­nomic and social affairs. 
Clinton dismissed the argument that western cul­ture has become too perva­sive -that soon every child will speak American English and every television will be tuned to MTV. Globalization should not be feared, he said. It should not blur cultural lines, but highlight them in a way to promote peace, Clinton said. 
That, he said would "put a real roadblock in the path of those who would like the 21st century dominated by cultural wars. not cultural celebrations." 
Less than 1 percent of the 
federal bud­
get is appro­

Ireland Chile Germany England France THE .._ International Internshipff eaching Position .Informational Session ...sponsored by SIBC -Te WHERE? Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 4'a WHEN? Wednesday, November 29, from 7-9pm  



Wednesday, November 29, 2000 The Observer . ELECTION 2000 page 7 
Gore's fight spreads to 5 different courts 
Associated Press 
Al Gore sought a speedy hand recount of Florida's contested ballots Tuesdav to ensure "no question, no cloud" hangs over the nation's 43rd president. A judge rejected his timetable, Democratic lawyers vowed to appeal and Republic.ans demanded, "It's time to wrap this up.'' 
As tbe campai1:,rn played out .in five separate courtrooms, the vice president sought to acceler­ate the proceedings to avoid fur­ther testing of the public's patience three weeks after Election Day. 
"Seven days, starting tomor­row, for a full and accurate count of all the votes," the vice president said shortly after his lawyers asked Circuit Judge Sanders Sauls to order the recount of 13,000 questionable ballots in two Democratic coun­ties. 
The judge instead scheduled a Saturday hearing and ordered the ballots -along with one or two voting machines -sent to Tallahassee in case he agrees that a recount is needed. Bush's lawyers objected to Gore's 
~~~~~;:;~~~~~~~:'!~;:;~~~~;::;~~~~~~~;:;::;:;:;~~--~-~•-~.~:.;.,;;, court to chaHenge the legiti­
fj •---•---•••-•,. •••• ••• 1t mate outcome of the election," , she said after Gore discussedIronwood family Dentistry 
I his continuing battle in_ a nationally televised appear­
271-7500
I 
ance. Bush also visited the head­
RUSSELL A MURPHY, DDS 
quarters Tuesday but steered 1639 NORTH IRONWOOD DR.IYE clear of a roomful of reporters SUITE 109 who came to attend the Hughes 

SOUTH BEND, IN 46635 briefing. Instead, he greeted campaign staff members and volunteers. 
Bush then prepared to spend
· 10% COLLEGE STUDENT DISCOUNT 
-;J the next few days on his ranch 
Michigan City Outlet Mal 1 bus 

departure point: Library 
Circle meeting time: 09:45am return time: 05:00pm mode: chartered buses toll: $2 

tickets: available at lafun info desk 11/20 
timetable, saying they needed time to prepare their case against him. 
Sauls is working against a Dec. 12 deadline for states to assigri presidential electors. 
"We could count until every­body is slap-happy, but ifno one is on the same page, T don't know what's being accom­plished," Sauls said, explaining why he wanted one broad-rang­ing hearing before considering Gore's recount request. 
The political morass stretched to the U.S. Supreme Court, with Bush's lawyers asking the nine justices to bring "legal finality" to the election by overturning Florida's top court and ending any further recounts. The case has tbe "potential to change the outcome of the presidential election in Florida, and thus the nation," Bush lawyers said in legal papers. 
Gore's legal team argued in its high court brief that the issue "does not belong in federal court." They want the justices to back the Florida Supreme Court. a Democratic-leaning body that extended the deadline for recounts. U.S. Supreme Court oral arguments are set for Friday. 
Bush considers choices for cabinet 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas 

George W. Bush is "on track" in planning a new government, one that would include Democrats in key positions, 
aides sug­gested Tuesday. Still, contin­uing legal clouds sub­dued some of Bush's optimism. 
"We arc now in uncharted 
waters," said Bush spokes­woman Karen Hughes. "We're in an unprecedented period where a presidential candidate is going to court essentially to try to contest and overturn the results of an election that has now been certified." 
She told reporters during an afternoon briefing at campaign headquarters that Bush contin­ues to insist he not be called "president elect" because of the current court challenges by Democratic rival Al Gore. 
"The governor has asked us all to be humble and to be gra­cious," she said. 
"We are mindful of the fact that the vice president ... a little more than an hour ago reiter­ated that he is continuing in 

Bush 
trip 

in Crawford. about a two-hour drive north of here. Since Election Day, Bush has divided his time between the governor's mansion here and the secluded 1,500-acre ranch. 
Running mate Dick Cheney, who is overseeing transition planning, was to join in at the ranch later in the week. 
"They will be discussing tran­sition efforts," said Ari Fleischer. Bush's transition spokesman. 
But Bush aides said that it appears unlikely that Bush will name any prospective Cabinet appointments before the Supreme Court has a chance to hear the case Friday. 
Colin Powell, Bush's known choice to be secretary of state, was reluctant to participate in any such announcement while so many legal issues remain to be resolved, aides said. 
Still, Bush pressed ahead in planning behind the scenes for a transition to power, meeting 
on Tuesday first "Obviously. we want to between 
at his residence have names presented Card and the and later at his man he
such that they can be
state capitol w o u I d 
office with considered by the Senate. replace: 
Andrew Card, We're on track." White House his prospective chief of staff White House J o h n
George W. Bush
chief of staff. Podesta. Card later governor Podesta 
told reporters that the two discussed prospective appoint­ments -and that some candi­dates for top Bush jobs might be brought to Texas later this week. 
Asked about whether Bush could meet a Jan. 4 timetable suggested by Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott to begin con­firmation hearings, Card said, "Obviously, we want to have names presented such that they can be considered by the Senate. We're on track." 
Card said that Bush clearly intends to reach out to Democrats in forming a gov­ernment because of the close­ness of the election. But he refused to respond to a ques­tion on whether former Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., was among those Democrats being consid­ered. 
Nunn. former chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, was viewed as a possible Bush choice for defense secretary. 
"He had Democrats serving in his administration in Texas, as well as Republicans," Card ear­lier told CNN. "And I think you can expect him to do the same in leading the country." 
Cheney said much the same thing earlier Tuesday when he appeared on NBC's "Today" Show. 
"The governor has given me instructions to look in those areas," he said. "We clearly will." 
The Texas governor. mean­while, picked up one of the trappings of the presidency: a promise from the Clinton White House for daily national securi­ty briefings. 
Such CIA briefings, with Gore currently gets as vice president, were promised in a Monday evening phone call 
said he and 

Card "dis­cussed how we could move for­ward." 
White House press secretary Jake Siewert said Podesta and Card had a "cordial" conversa­tion. 
"John offered to meet with him and offered to meet wi.th him either with the vice presi­dent's transition staff or sepa­rately," Siewert said. "We'll be happy to arrange such a meting to give them an overview of where we are in the transition." 
While supporting the federal General Services Administration's decision against releasing funds or office space to Bush for a transition, Siewert said the White House was waiting for the Justice Department to complete a for­mal written opinion on the Presidential Transition Act. 

8al8a Ni[ht Every Thursday
September 28  October 5th  0ctober26  
El Son De Aquf  Freddy Kenton y Los Ases Del Merengue  Benji y Su Merenbanda  
NovemberZ  November30  December 7th  
El Son De Aqul  El Son De Aquf  Fuerza y Alma  

The Club landing • 1717 Lin col nway East • South Bend, IN. 


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 OBSERVER Wednesday, November 29, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bo, Q. Noire Dame, IN 46556 024 Souli1 Dining I !all, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR liUSINESS MANAGER Noreen--Gilfcspic Tim Lane 
AS.'IT. MANAGING EDJTOR 0Pl'RATIONS MANAGFR Ch riscine Kraly Brian Kessler 
N1:ws EDITOR: Anne Marie Marti1tgly V11,.wi•o1NT EDrtOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith Sc.ENI' EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EonoR, Elizabeth Lang 
ADVJ::RTISING MANAGER, Pat Peter• Ao DESIGN MANAC;ER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville Wf.B ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROi.i.ER: Bub Woods GRAl'IIICS EonoR: Jose Cuellar 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAi. INFO.. , ......631-7471 
FAX................ . ............. 631-6927 
AllVERllSING...................................63 J-6900/8840 obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF....... ..... . .......................631-4"542 MANAGING EorroR/AssT. ME .................. 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS........................................ ,., ............ 631-5323 obscrver.obsncws. l@nd.edu VIEW!'OINT................................................631-5303 observer. vicwpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE......................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR\"s ...........................................631-4324 
obscrver.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.... ········ ........................ , ..... 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB A!JMINlSTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://obrerver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: weather for up-ro-rhc movies/n1usic for minute forecasts 
weekly sruJent reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­and rates of print ads 
cial campU5 coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and Augusr 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Univcrsuy of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assi.tant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries. tcrrers and columns present the views of the aurhurs and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is av,1ilable to all readers. The free expression of all upiniom through letters is encouraged. l.erlcrs to rhe Editor rnust be signed and rnusr include cont.1cr inforrnatiu11. 
Q,wtiom r,gardirig OIJJtmer po/icier d,ou!tl b, dir,ct­,r/to Frluor in CliiifMlkr Comwily. 

Closing one chapter, opening another 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
While most of the United States watched the drama slowly unfold in Florida, President Bill Clinton made a historic visit to communist Vietnam. Clinton is the first U.S. president to visit Vietnam since the 
Brieanne
Vietnam War ended. 

Many people find Porter the situation ironic since Clinton is an admitted draft­The Battalion dodger. 
However, the irony is unimportant -Clinton's visit marks a milestone in 
U.S. relations with Vietnam. 

While many remember the war with heavy hearts. this visit helps close that sad part of American history, 
The visit does not dishonor the soldiers who fought in the war, but it gives clo­sure to many while working to improve relations with Vietnam. 
Clinton's presidency has focused on America's relationship with Vietnam. Starting with the gradual lifting of embargoes in 1994, Clinton has worked to improve ties with Vietnam, including opening diplomatic relations in 1995. 
This year saw the earnest beginning of a Vietnamese-American trade agree-· ment. 
But the culmination of this progress was Clinton's visit. Although heavily cen­sured by the Viclnamesc government, Clinton talked about the issues of human rights and a democratic government. 
Clinton believes that when Vietnam 
interacts with the world through eco­
nomic means, the Vietnamese will gain 
more individual and political freedoms. 
"I think that the trend toward freedom is virtually irreversible," Clinton said. 
When the trade doors open between the United States and Vietnam, everyone will benefit. 
Because 60 percent of Vietnam's popu: lation is under the age of 30, U.S. corRpa­nies in Vietnam will have an able work­force. 
According to The Boston Globe, "At $370 a year. Vietnam still has one of the lowest per capita incomes in the world." 
While many Americans would com­plain about the loss of jobs, America would receive more jobs when compa­nies began exporting goods to Vietnam. 
This would be a win-win situation, with more jobs for both countries. 
With Clinton's trip to a country where 58,000 American soldiers and 3 million Vietnamese died only a quarter century ago, many people awaited to see what he would say about the war. 
Ointon offered no apologies for the conflict. but instead discussed the future of these two countries. He avoided assigning blame for the war. 
To many Vietnam veterans. the move was an important one. Clinton did not dishonor those who fought, and he even visited a site where bodies of' American pilots shot down during thr war had been found. 
At least 20 soldiers who were listed as missing in action will be returned to the United States foi-burial. 
Clinton's trip offered hope to the Vietnamese for a more global economy while introducing a possible market for American businesses. 
Yet, he also respected America's veter­ans by not accepting blame for the war. Vietnam will be a new market for American businesses to expand their consumer base and their employee pool. 
The most impressive part of' Clinton's visit is that he got the two countries to discuss their future. 
Clinton said that the countries' histo­ries have "intertwined" for many years and that the countries need to put the "painful" past behind them, 
While many Vietnamese government ofTicials were nervous that Clinton would discuss political changns, Clinton dis­cussed trade and only lightly touched on other issues. 
Clinton's trip to Vietnam respected America's veterans and encouraged dis­cussion of economic opportunities !'or both countries. 
This column first appeared in the Texas A&M newspaper. The Battalion, on Nov. 27, and is reprinted here cour­tes!J of U-W!Rh'. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
ASOI< IS DOWN. DOE5 ANYONE KNOW CPR? 

E 
0 
() 
t: 
GI 
.c 
'ti 
3i 
____....__~.... ~ ~-,l.1,-..r...a-....-"""""'"'""'~J;;;il,I 
SCOTT ADAMS 
UM ... WE'D BETTER I DON'T STRIP HIM 
15 CPR THE ONE 

WHERE WE. TAKE. HIS KIDNEY AND THINK AND SHAVE . L.f.AVE HIM IN A. so. HIM JU5T TUB OF ICE? I IN CASE. 
\ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'i'\ business that makes nothing but money is a poor kind of business." 
Henry Ford automobile manufacturer 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Wednesday, November 29, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Responses to homosexual issues 
Room for differences in Church 
I am writing in response to Professor Rice's recent article on homosexuality. As an alumnus, a Catholic and someone who has recently come to accept himself as gay, I have struggled with this issue for most of my life. While Professor Rice is undoubtedly well intentioned, I respectful­ly disagree with the Church's teaching and Professor Rice. 
Professor Rice argues that homosexual acts and the inclination toward them are objectively disordered because they are contrary to the nature built into us by God. As with many others, I spent most of my life., including my years at Notre Dame, believing this idea. After 26 years. however. I have come to reject this premise because I discovered that, rather than bringing me closer to Christ, the Church and those around me, it was the source of an alienation that I have struggled with my entire life. 
While Professor Rice argues that homosexual­ity is contrary to the nature built into us by God, this misses the point. God has created each of us with a different purpose. The Church, as the body of Christ. is not a single part. but many. God placed the parts, each as he intended. If they were all one part, where would the body be? But as it is. there are many parts, yet one body (1 Cor. 13:18-20). God calls each person to many different things, each according to his plan. While the Church and Professor Rice may choose to describe certain parts of the body as objective­ly disordered, we are all Christ's body (1 Cor. 13:27). 
This raises the question, what is the essential nature God has placed within us? In this, Jesus was most clear: You shall love the Lord, your God, with all your heart, with all your being, with all your strength, with all your mind and your neighbor as yourself (Luke 10:27). 
When I believed that I was objectively disor­dered, l could not love God, I could not love myself, I could not love my neighbor. Rather, I could only believe that somehow God had made some sort of mistake. that my very being was an affront to creation. 
At my lowest days, God granted me the grace to accept myself, not as someone who is objec­tively disordered. but rather as God's creation, born to love God as God created me. For me to accept what the Church and Professor Rice teach is to deny God's wisdom, to deny God. 
As such, I cannot disagree more with Professor Rice's contention that the University misleads students by refusing to admit that the homosexual inclination is disordered. While this may imply that the Church teaching is an arbi­trary restriction. so he it. While the University has been less than a vanguard in accepting its gay and lesbian students and alumni, such a dec­laration would only serve to further push us away from the University, the Church and from Christ. I cannot think of any more serious betray­al of its mission. 
Marc Echeveste 
Class of'95 Scottsdale, Arizona Nov. 28, 2000 

Clarifying stance on 
•

gay issues 
I should like to respond to your editorial in The Observer on Friday, Nov. 10, in which you distorted my response on the question of suicide among teenage homosexuals. I simply took issue with the assertion that among teenagers who think they are homosexual there is a very high rate of suicide. 
A United States government agency in D.C. had made such a statement and subsequently had corrected its own state­ment. This does not mean that I regard suicide among homo­sexual men and women as "inconsequential." I have always taken this issue seriously in my counseling of people with same-sex attractions and never "seriously dismissed" them. I am dismayed by this direct attack upon my character. coming as it does, from The Observer. 
My response to the letter by William Dell, class of '69 on Nov. 13 is to appeal to your readers, asking them to read my books on the issue: "The Homosexual Prison" and "The Truth About Homosexuality". In doing so you will realize that Dell has no understanding of the Church's teaching on chastity. 
Married people are bound by conjugal chastity, which does not mean abstinence from marital intercourse, but rather fidelity to each other and the avoidance of contra­ception and masturbation. In brief, chastity is a gift of God's grace by which we are able to control sexual desires and express affection in the right way, according to our state in life, recognizing that sexual intercourse is meant only for the married. 
Rev. John F. Harvey, OSFS director ofCourage Nov. 27,2000 

What is the chaplain's role in the military? 
If you pick up a Catholic magazine, like Commonwealth or America, you'll likely find an ad for the Army challenging you to "Be All That You Can Be." But it's not an ad for soldiers or officers; it's for chaplains. The picture is of a priest in full fatigues and a stole around his neck, indi­cating readiness for front-line Illlnistry. Though ads such as this are provocative, raising questions about church and mili­tary. they point to a larger social fact: The armed forces have a quite large sys­tem of chaplaincy that offers religious services to soldiers. 
And given the questions that this cam­pus has been asking the past couple of years about Catholics, war and ROTC, those who have been chaplains and those who have known chaplains in their assignments have a unique and impor­tant insight that can be fascinating and valuable to the church. 
The experience of chaplains offers much to the conversalion, whether one comes down on the side of pacifism or on the legitimacy of certain acts of war. Here at Notre Dame, our own Father Corby was one of this nation's most famous chaplains during the Civil War, tending to the Union's Irish Brigade ­illustrated in the statue on the front lawn of Corby Hall. In fact, some have thought it was his service to this "Fighting Irish" troop that yielded the moniker of our sports teams (they are wrong, though: it seems it was a New York sportswriter). 
Even the word chaplain has interesting roots -and roots not unrelated to mili­tary history -in the church. In the fourth century, soon after the Roman Empire was christianized by Constantine. a young soldier named Martin (St. Martin ofTours) saw a cold, shivering beggar on his way to duty. Dressed as he was in his the service of that mercy and make it thick military cloak (called then a cappa), manifest in the lives of their people. This the experience constellated for him at is not to say underhandedly that chap-once all his feelings about the empire's lains ought to be anti-military; it is only to treasures going to works of war and not recall where the word actually comes 
~~~~~­
So he drew his sword and sliced his sizeable cappa in two, giving one to the beggar for warmth. In a dream, Christ, as the beggar, thanked him. Then Martin renounced his military oath saying, "I am a sol­dier of Christ and it is not lawful for me to fight." 
His act attracted a following and his devotees preserved his half of the cappa as a sign of his saintly life. The room in which they preserved it was then called a capella. from which we get the important words chapel and chaplain. From that time on, a chapel was a place that always brought one into the remembrance and presence of Christ's mercy as it was made manifest in charity and love. And chaplains are men and women who are, put simply, at 
~~~~~~~ 
thought. Jump ahead now over 1,600 years and see the situation of sol­diers in the era of modern warfare. Imagine -for, to be sure. this situation was real -a 
young Catholic serving in 
the United States Air Force in 1990 when the U.S. 
began Operation 
Desert 

Shield, then Desert Storm. ,tn He is assigned ,\)-to take part in tlying sorties, bombing raids on 
Baghdad. He is informed well before the bombing begins, that 
the Pope has named the pos­sibility of war on Iraq immoral, 
appealing that non-violent means be 
employed to seek resolution. The letter 
causes him to tl1ink deeply about his role. He knows that Catholic teaching sup-· ports his right not to fight in this particu­
lar conflict because the church has spo­ken against it, a right known as selective conscientious objection. Yet he also knows that U.S. military law only recog­nizes conscientious objection to all war, and does not allow someone in his case to refuse this particular mission. 
As he ponders all this, he goes for advice to the Catholic chaplain of his unit. Here is where the story becomes nuanced. For some young soldiers in this situation. the chaplains offered the advice that loyalty to their military oath requires service -no matter what. Many other Catholic chaplains knew well that the sit­uation was more difficult and gave many different forms of advice. In this case, most Catholics fought in the Gulf War and chaplains were there when they returned to offer mercy and support, sometimes tending to the deep wounds of war. 
Honestly, it's hard to write about this topic. Each of these stories can be read ­and written -with a view to how they impact the "debate" on war and ROTC hero. The first may question Church sup­port of military service and the second may show why we desperately need chaplains. But my purpose here is not to further one side. As someone who has never been in a war or been a military chaplain, I have a limited perspective. 
And so what do we do when our per­spective is limited, as all are? We get together and talk, and have people who "have been there" tell their stories, then we pray over it and retlect some more. 
Mike Griffin 
Pax Christi Notre Dame Moreau Seminary Nov. 28, 2000 

I N 
cen 
E T 
page 10 Wednesday, November 29, 2000 
Mid-winter blues got you dreaming of sunny bea 
Travel planning Web sites cater to college students, offer deals on all-inc/us 

By MERIDETH PIERCE Scene Wrirer 
It is almost December and the weath­er just keeps getting colder. To top it off, exams are growing ever closer and students are beginning to feel as though hibernation might be a genius idea. For those who choose not to hide away in dorm rooms covered in blan­kets, there is one driving idea that keeps them warm: spring break. 
Although spring break feels like it might never come, it is actually just 100 short days away. With the need for warm thoughts and with time quickly ticking away, now is the perfect time to start planning. 
But where will you go? What will you do? And how arc you supposed to plan out an entire dream vacation? 
To stop your worries, check out the help and deals on-line. There are hun­dreds of resources at your fingertips that all eagerly want to help you have a fun vacation for minimal costs. 
The popular Travelocity.com is a great place to start. In general, Travelocity.com is easy to use and con­tains many tools to aid in every aspect of your vacation planning. 
You are allowed two visits to the site without becoming a member. but if you decide to purchase from Travel­ocity.com, membership is a must. 
Although signing up is free, you are required to enter contact information such as your name and e-mail address. Once this is done. you are set to go. 
Travelocity.com offers reservations for more than 400 airlines. 47,000 hotels and 50 car rental companies. They offer thousands of vacation pack­ages and cruise offerings that cater to your interests. along with information on hundreds of destinations from guidebook experts and other Travel­ocity.com members. 
With so many options, it is easy to get carried away with plans for numerous destinations. However, the best way to critique the site is to look at one specif­ic vacation destination and everything that it involves. 
Many col­lege stu­dents will a g a i n swarm to Cancun, Mexico, this year. 
Its ever­gr owing popularity as one of MTV's offi­cial spring break loca­tions pro­vides many routes for visiting Mexico this break. 
Travel­ocity.com provides you with several options to plan a vacation to Cancun. You can either book your flight, hotel and attractions separately on this site, or book a package deal. 
The simplest option is working through their "planning a vacation" site. This can be reached by clicking on 
the "vaca­tion" but­ton at the top of' the h o m e ­page. 
0 n c e you are h e r e , there are 
m a n y 

databases available, listed by "interest," by "desti­nation," or by "search and com­pare." 
"Search and com­pare" is a 
groat tool where you can choose your package type, maximum price per per­son, destination and time of travel. Then Travel­ocity.com will bring up all the possibilities arranged by hotels. 
The great thing about this aspect of Travel­ocity.com is that you can select up to 10 vacations that arc of interest and the site will list and compare them in a chart that is easy to read. 
Next you can choose whether or not you want the airfare included in the package. If you choose this, Travelocity.com will pull up all your flight options. 
Through Travelocity­.com. the price range of packages for one adult to Cancun for six days and seven nights in the week of March 10 -18 ranges from $1,109 to nearly $2,000. 
This price does not include airfare, which can be an additional $500 to $1,500, depending on your flight preferences. 
Once you decide on a vacation pack­age, Travel­ocity.com has many "add­ons" that you can choose from. Many of these vacation add-ons are tours that range in price from $39 to $97 for one person. 
If this does not interest you. do not fear: there are many more travel Web sites with packages to choose from. However, not many other sites offer the vast amount of choices and 

variety in locations that Travelocity.com has for vacation pack­ages. 
Other travel sites such as Priceline.com offer plane tickets. as does Travelscape.com. 
Travelscape.com is simi­lar to Travelocity.com in that it has a large selec­tion of hotels as well as plane tickets, but it does not offer vacation pack­ages. 
Most other sites that offer spring break vaca­tion packages have much narrower options. 
Many sites can be found that offer vacations to sunny places like Cancun, Jamaica and Daytona Beach. These vacations are directed toward the fun-loving college student. 
A perfect example of this is Springbreak.com. This site is a notch down in professionalism from Travelocity.c.om, but still provides great vacation options. 

Highlighted vacations can be planned 
for several sites in Florida such as 
Daytona Beach and Orlando. There are 
also four Mexican locations. including 
Cancun and Acapulco. Vacations to 
Jamaica are also an option. 
Once you have picked a destination 
from the site's map, you are brought to 
a page that lets you choose your type of 
hotel from either "beachfront." 
"lagoon" or "downtown" locations. 
This option narrows down your choic­
es and makes searching for a hotel 
much easier. 
Springbreak.com's biggest downfalls are the hard-to-distinguish pricing guide and the site's tendency to circle back to the home page. Bottom line prices are rarely. if ever. available on the Web site, although it docs publish companies' phone numbers. 
If you can get past tlrnse annoyances. there are definite perks in planning your vacation through Spring­break.com. especially if' you are ready to let loose on your spring break. 
One of these Springbreak.com perks arrives when you check into your hotel. You will be given an "Arrival Pak" that contains a week-long party schedule telling you where to find the hot day­
time events and nighttime parties. 



I N 
E T 
Wednesday, November 29, 2000 page 11 
es? Surf the Web to plan your ideal spring break 
spring break packages to vacation hot spots -Jamaica, Cancun, Florida 
plete information on all the optional excursions like Disney World trips, party cruises, pub crawls, deep sea fishing and scuba or snorkeling trips. 
However, the best perk to this "Activity Pak" is the option for a "VIP Party Pass." This pass will provide you with discounts like door charges for any nightclub, free souvenirs, free food and up to 30 hours of free beer and drinks. Through Springbreak.com this pass costs just under $100. Spring­break.com claims that it can save you $300 or more, depending on how much you party. 
Besides the "VIP Party Pass," there is another perk that is unique to Springbreak.com: becoming a repre­sentative for the Web site. If you sign up as a representative, you can earn money and free trips by getting others to order their travel packages through you. All of this can all be done online at the Web site. 
However, making reservations online is a huge downfall for Spring­break.com, as their electronic reserva­tion process is confusing and time-con­suming. Their second option -to fax in a printable reservation -is the easi­er route. 

and many more options appear. 
SpringBreak­Travel.com not only provides pictures of the hotel and its rooms. but the site lists the total package price as well. 
There is also an easy to read rating system that ranks the pack­age's overall experi­ence, fun factor, beach and tan factor, daytime and nighttime entertain­ment and the quality of 
. the hotel's location and rooms. A spring break package to Cancun for two people in one room would cost from $689 to $1,400 per person, including airfare. The only downfall to 

Cruise packages to the Bahamas are popular among college-aged vacationers. 
searching on SpringBreakTravel.com is suit your needs, there are still more that if a hotel is nearly booked, the site options. For those who crave something will not tell you how much its rooms a little different, check out European cost. Instead, the site prompts you to tour vacations on GorillaGuide.com. 
-
call a listed number to find out if there This site is in the midst of a is still room. makeover, and many features are not 
If you start planning now, though, yet up and running. However, SpringBreakTravel.com is a great site GorillaGuide.com has the potential to to vacation through. Making reserva­provide great opportunities for tions is fairly easy as well. The elec­European-bound travelers. tronic registration is simple and fast, Not only is GorillaGuide.com a and you can also fax or call in reserva­resource for purchasing a vacation, but tions. it provides valuable tourist information 
Another great as well. There is a "Trip Prep" page site that is both that lists information from American inexpensive and embassies to laundromats in your easy to use is country of choice. It provides all the Spring­things that you might be too busy to BreakCenter­worry about checking out. .com. If Europe is calling your name right 
Working now and you cannot wait for Gor­through a com­illaGuide.com to finish its construction, pany called try out EuroVacations.com. Although it Endless is not necessarily geared towards Summer Tours, spring break craziness, there are still SpringBreak­many options on this site.You can C enter.com choose from a large variety of pre­offers more des­planned European vacations or you can tination choices tailor your own trip in their "Dream than Spring­Vacation" section. BreakTravel­However, if partying in Mexico or .com. Another shopping in Paris does not satisfy you, highlight of there is still hope. The simple SpringBreak­Vacation.com provides a huge number Center.com is of preplanned as well as custom made­the option to to-fit vacations from all over the world. include a meal Whether it be hiking in Alaska or plan. swimming in Hawaii, there will be 
To start your something on Vacation.com to spark vacation planning with Spring­your spring break desires and warm BreakCenter.com, you choose a desti­your thoughts to get you through the -­nation, departure date and location, cold winter months. room occu­pancy, the option for a meal plan and the price range you are will­ing to spend. 
Then the site lists a handy list of hotels with a price per person. The prices on 

.....
Spring­Br ea k ­Center.com for a trip to C a n c u n range from $669 to $1,146 per person. 

If none of these spring break party Photo courtesy of SpringBreakTravel.com 
locations 

The beaches of Cancun are another popular spring break hot 



SpringBreak­Travel.com works along the same lines as Springbreak.com. This Web site arranges trips to the Bahamas, Cancun, Mexico, Negri!, Jamaica, Panama City, Daytona and South Reach, and also provides various cruise packages. 
If these dr.stinations spark your interest, then deciding where to go will be the hardest decision you make through SpringBreakTravel.com. One of the site's selling points is its simple and attractive set-up. You can even watch videos onlinc from the various vacation locations. 
A vacation package through SpringBreak­Travel.com includes round trip airfare, trans­portation to and from the hotel to the airport, hotel accommodations, hotel and departure taxes, seven free breakfasts and 10 "buy one, get one free" dinners and lunches at some of the most pop­ular restaurants in the 
town. 
The Cancun trip includes a pass like Spring­break.com's "VIP Party Pass" that provides 30 hours of free drinks and "buy one, get one free" drink spe-­cials.However, the best part of Spring­BreakTravel.com is its ability to rate and compare hotels. 
After choosing your desired des­tina ti on, you enter the dates of your spring break, the depar­ture city and the number of people in each room. 
SpringBreakTravel.com then provides a list of all available hotels. The hotels are organized by categories: Downtown, Lagoon, Beach Moderate, Beach Value, Beach Superior, Beach Deluxe and Beach Luxury. You can 
select a hotel category 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 29, 2000 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Blue Devils earn last-minute win 
Associatccl Press 
GREENSBORO, N.C. Duke won its first test of the season at No. 1 -barely. 
The undefeated Blue Devils (6-0) got 23 points from Jason Williams and 21 from Mike Dunleavy to beat Illinois (No. 8 ESPN/USA Today; No. 9 AP) 78­77 in the marquee matchup in the ACC-Big Ten Challenge on Tuesday night. 
Williams and Dunleavy matched career highs. while Carlos Boozer, saddled with foul trouble most of the night and held to three points in the first half, scored 12 in the second. 
Frank Williams led Illinois (4­
2) with 19 points. 
Duke led 70-68 with 3:53 left. but Boozer hit two free throws. and Dunleavy scored on a layup and 3-pointer in a span of 30 seconds as the Blue Devils grabbed control 77-68. 
But the Blue Devils had to survive a wild finish in which they turned the ball over twice in the final 1: 31. 
The win improved Duke to 125-18 all-time as the nation's top-ranked team. But this one didn't come easy against a

-physical Illinois team that beat the Blue Devils on the boards 42-27. But the Fighting lllini (4-2), playing its second No. 1 team in a span of six days, turned it over 26 times and couldn't pull out the close one down the stretch. Illinois lost to then-No. 1 Arizona 79-76 in the title game of the Maui Invitational. Neither team led by more than three points in the opening 7 1/2 minutes of the second half in a game that took on an NCAA tournament type of feel between two teams predicted to win their respective conference titles. 
But the Blue Devils went on a 9-0 run as Williams scored on a drive and an 8-foot bank shot. Shane Battier hit a 3-pointer and Boozer added two free throws. 

Coach Mike Krzyzewski got on his knees during the run, plead­ing with his team to put Illinois away. But lllinois made six free throws and got a 3-pointcr from Sean llarrington to go on a 11-1 run of its own to regain the lead by three before Duke's late run. 
Each team came in shooting better than 50 percent from the field, but both struggled in the opening 20 minutes on offense. 
Illinois had trouble with Duke's press early on and ended up turning it over 14 times in the first half. During one stretch, Illinois coughed it up five times in seven posses­sions, but a 24-10 rebounding edge kept the score close. 
Meanwhile, the Blue Devils couldn't penetrate the zone of the Fighting Illini and had trou­ble from the outside, hitting just 3 of 12 3-pointers while shoot­ing 40 percent. 
Hawkeyes 85 
Yellow Jackets 67 
Luke Recker scored 21 points and Reggie Evans recorded his third double-double in as many games with 17 points and 15 rebounds as Iowa beat Georgia Tech 85-67 Tuesday night. 
Iowa (3-0) took the lead for good midway through the first half after trailing by as many as six points and pulled away from the Yellow Jackets (3-1) down the stretch. 
Dean Oliver added 14 points for Iowa, which outrebounded Tech 45-22 and shot 62 percent in the second half. Alvin Jones led Georgia Tech with 24 points. Tony Akins and Marvin Lewis each scored 15. 
Iowa led 54-42, its biggest lead to that point, after Recker sank three free throws with 
12:30 left. Akins then scored seven straight Georgia Tech points, including a 3-pointer that drew the Yellow Jackets to 56-49. They got no closer. 
Oliver sank two free throws 
for a 58-49 lead and answered 
a Georgia Tech basket with a 3­
pointer from the left wing. A 
Ryan Hogan free throw and a 3­
pointer by Recker finished an 
11-2 run that gave Iowa a 65-51 
lead with 8:47 remaining. 
Hecker then hit two more 3­pointers to keep Iowa safely ahead, the first with 4:50 left to make it 75-61 and the second with 3:25 to play, starting an 8­0 burst that stretched the lead to 83•65 and finished off the Yellow Jackets. 
Demon Deacons 71 
Wolverines 60 
Robert O'Kellev scored 19 points to lead No. 12 Wake Forest to a come-from-behind victory over Michigan in an ACC/Big Ten Challenge game. 
Michigan (2-2) led by 11 with 16 minutes to play, but couldn't hold off the more experienced Demon Deacons (5-0). Wake Forest, last season's NIT cham­pion, has won 10 straight games, second in the nation to only Michigan State's 14 in a row. 
Darius Songaila had 13 points for Wake Forest, while Antwan Scott added 12 and Josh Shoemaker had 10. 
LaVell Blanchard led the Wolverines with 13, and Bernard Robinson Jr. and Josh Asselin each added 12. 
The Wolverines led 32-29 at the half behind 10 points and five rebounds from Blanchard and held the Demon Deacons scoreless for the first four min­utes of the second. Asselin and Chris Young scored four points each as Michigan built the lead to 40-29. · Wake Forest, though, answered with a 13-4 run that got them within 44-42 with 
12:35 to go. The Demon Deacons took a 47 -46 lead on O'Kelley's 3-pointer. then expanded the margin to 53-48 with 8:30 left. 

McVoy 

continued from page 20 
say the women on the team only needed that little boost to let them know that they were good enough to win. 
"They didn't believe in themselves [last yearJ," she said. "Now they believe they can do anything." 
In addition. the team has taken on a new attitude. The women aren't playing these games to avoid losing; they're in to win. That determination, along with that boost of confi­dence. has done a lot for this team. but it doesn't end there. 
Smith has had a huge hand in this team's turn around. In addition to being full time, new and young, she inspires team confidence and respect much more successfully than last year's head coach, Dave Roeder, ever did. 
"Coach Smith is young, but we still really respect her," Matha told me earlier this week during an interview. "She's been the reason this team has turned around." 
Smith put her team mem­bers on a physical fitness pro­gram this summer. something that did not occur last season. The team had open gyms to stay in shape. And once MIM regulations allowed the team to handle the ball in Smith's presence, the real work began. 

In addition to the specifics of practice, Smith has done a lot to bring this team closer together. Spending several weeks together this summer helped the team better their communication and team spirit. 
Of course, I can't promise a season riddled with success, but this season has already been a success, considering this team has won nearly as many games in two weeks as the team won all last season. 
The new problem for the team will be keeping their focus as it comes off of' the exciting tournament victory. 
However, even if' some loss­es intercede, which I'm sure they will, this young team beneath Smith's leadership promises to be exciting to watch. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be ~repaid. . 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the nght to edtt all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

ONLY 3 HOUSES LEFT,  LOST: Black pea coat w/Pentax  BABYSITTER WANTED  NO PLANS FOR THE HOLIDAYS?  COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS  
NOTICES  4,5,6 bdrm, turn, sec.syst, w/d. PRIME locations. Util. Included.  camera in pocket. Please call Kristin  EVENING & WEEKENDS, POSSI­ NEW YEAR'S? Vacation in Chicago for $22/night.  300,000+ private sector scholar­ships available tor undergraduate  
233-9947.  @ 2871 or return to Lyons Hall rec- BLY EVERY SATURDAY 8-6 IN  Stay at Hostelling Int'/ -Chicago.  and graduate students at accredit­ 
.­ tress,  THE FUTURE. MUST HAVE A  Call 312/360-0300. www.hichica­ ed colleges in the USA regardless  
THE COPY SHOP  5 bdrm. 2 bath, completely rernod­ no questions asked.  LOVE FOR CHILDREN, IMAGINA­ go.erg.  of their GPA, finances, age or citi- 
LaFortune Student Center  eled 8/00, new: furnace, roof, car- TIVE & RELIABLE. 3-YEAR-OLD  zenship. Write or call for FREE  
Store Hours  pet, appl., W/D, security & more.  SOUTH BEND SENIOR HOCKEY  BOY. SCOTTSDALE MALL AREA.  Quality Copies, Quickly!  information and application.  
Mon-Thur: 7:30 am-Midnight  Home is on 3 lots. Alum owned,  LEAGUE  We're open early, late & weekends.  Scholarship Database Service  
Fri 7:30 am-7:00 pm  must see. 240-0322 ­ Jason.  INQUIRIES W/REF. TO:  THE COPY SHOP  P.O. Box 432  
Sat. Noon-6:00 p.m.  Not too late to join a team for this  PO BOX 2931  LaFortune Student Center  Notre Dame, IN 46556-0432  
Sun Noon-Midnight  season!  SOUTH BEND IN 46680  Phone 631-COPY  Barnyard8961@hotmail.com  
PHONE 631-COPY  WANTED  Players of all experience levels are welcome.  Quality Copies, QUICKL YI  1-800-936-3706  
Seeking creative, energetic provider  VOTE FOR NOTRE DAME IN  Interested in meeting someone  
FOR RENT  Seeking creative, energetic provider to care for 2 children in my Granger  -No Check Rules -Ice Box Skating Rink (5 min. drive  to care for 2 children in my Granger home 20-25 hrs./wk. Call 277-1622  TOURNEY OF TRADITIONS! Goto  new? Call 233-0861.  
home. 20-25 hrslwk. Call 277-1622.  from campus)  
 http://promotions.go.com/espn/tosti­ hey rnarky, how ya doin'?  
-Games Played Once Per Week  tos/frontpage.html and vote for ND  
HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 4/5 bedrm 3 blocks to campus. 713-486-8822  LOST & FOUND  Contact Bill Lerman at 236-5107 Billl@steelwarehouse.net  FOR SALE  in ESPN.com's Tourney of Traditions! Vote now for ND to advance through the top 16 to win  hope everyone had a great break and is glad to see me again  
No.1 tor the school with the best  i never want to write again, papers  
3,4 & 6 BDRM HOMES. FURN.  LOST. MANOS WEDDING RING  PHONE CARDS  football tradition. While you're there,  suck, so do finals  
NOW & 2001-02. 272-6306.  IN SOUTH DINING HALL AREA  PART TIME HELP WANTED  $20 1558 MIN.  enter for a chance to win a trip for  
ON MONDAY, NOV. 13  PLEASE  CALL 284-5145 or 258-4805  up to 1opeople to the 2001  hello christine dah-ling, hope you·re  
HOUSES FOR RENT  CALL KEITH AT 1-6147.  Prof. Male, Granger area, needs  Tostitos Fiesta Bowl in Tempe,  having a fabulous day!  
2001-2002  REWARD!!!  after-school/domestic help, for 2  Arizona. Go ND!  
10 BEDROOMS­4 BATHS  LOST: GOLD HEART & C.Z.  teenage boys, men ­hrs a week.  lri about 20  PERSONAL  EARN$$$$ at  mary is my awesome older sister  
3KITCHENS  BRACELET AT ND-BC GAME,  Non-smoking, fun-loving, with  Saint Mary's Madrigal Dinners  Happy belated birthday Matty!  
5BEDROOMS  SECTION 32. GIFT TO MY WIFE,  upbeat disposition a must  Looking for a unique gift?  
28ATHS  HUGE SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF  Cooking, cleaning, laundry & groc.  Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures  Theatrical performance requires  Hi my roommates, good luck on  
GREAT FRONT PORCH  FOUND, PLESAE CONTACT ME  Shopping.  and we'll mae a 2001 color copy  female serverslactresses on Dec. 1 ,  your spanish test Lauren and  
BOTH HOUSES HAVE WASHERS,  @ DUBE 1 @ND.EDU  Inquiries w/ ref. To;  calender that is sure to be appreci­ 2, 3; 5-11 p.m. (also 12-6 p.m. on  Kristin, and i hope your interview  
DRYERS ANO ALARM SYSTEMS  ated.  Dec. 3).  went well Kate!  
CALL KRAMER  Lost: a men's brown jacket If  PO BOX2931  THE COPY SHOP  
234-2436 OR CELL 274-1501.  tound, please call 246-1558.Thanks  SOUTH BEND, IN 46&80  LaFortune Student Center  $6.25/hr-paid before Christmas  Happy Birthday Amber!  

Wednesday, November 29, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

..._ 
-: 

-
NBA 

Hornets hit new record in 95-63 victory 
Associat,ed Pre.s 

CHARLOlTE, N.C. 
Hodney White scored 20 points and Charlotte hit a team-record 16 3­pointers Tuesday night in a 95-63 vic­tory against Miami. 
Demon Brown scored 16 points for Charlotte {3-1), Jobey Thomas had 15, Diego Guevara scored 12 and James Zimmerman had 11, 
It was Charlotte's second rout in 10 days of a team from a high-profile conference. The 49ers. l'rom Conference USA, blew oul North Carolina State 95-78 in Haleigh on Nov. 18. 
The Niners had hoped the victory would push them into the Top 25 fo·r the lirst time in two years, buL a last­second 79-78 loss to St. Bonaventure on Saturday spoiled their expecta­tions. 
Against Miami, they set out early to redeem themselves by taking quick and confident shots at the basket ­especially from long range. 
The 49ers, who are averaging 11 3­pointers a game, hit seven in the deci­sive first half. They finished 16-of-32 from long range, making so many that the students who had been hanging yellow 3s after each one ran out at 15. 
Guevara led the barrage by making 4-of-7. while Zimmerman was 3-for­
4. 

Miami (3-1) jumped out to a quick 17-8 lead, but the 49ers started hit­ting their shots to close the gap and then pull away. 
Guevara and Brown hoth hit 3s at the beginning of a 12-2 run that gave Charlotte the lead for good at 20-19. The Niners then shifted into their transition offense and poured it on the Hurricanes. 
Zimmerman and White hit long 3­pointers in another 12-2 run that gave Charlotte a 42-28 lead with 2:03 to play in the half. 
Miami, which returned only one starter from the team that won a share of' the Big East title last year, couldn't match Charlotte's offensive punch and never regrouped. 
The Hurricanes got 16 points from John Salmons. James Jones added 12. 
Hawks 103, Wizards 75 

Lorenzen Wright scored 23 points and grabbed 12 rebounds as the Atlanta Hawks snapped a 22-game road losing streak with a win over the Washington Wizards. 
Alan Henderson added 16 points and 11 rebounds for the Hawks, who had lost eight straight road games this season and hadn·t won away from home since Feb. 25 in Seattle. It was the franchise's longest road losing streak since the 1975-76 Hawks lost 29 away games over two seasons. 
Rod Strickland scored 17 points for Washington, which missed the oppor­tunity to earn back-to-back wins for the first time this season. 
The game, which featured two of the worst offensive teams in the NBA. was decided by the haUtime. Atlanta broke the game open by holding Washington to two field goals the final 8 1/2 minutes of the second quarter. The Wizards only points during that stretch were a layup by Mitch Richmond and a three-point play by Richard Hamilton. 
The Hawks closed the quarter with a 20-5 run to build a 50-30 halftime lead and weren't threatened in the second hall'. 
The Hawks earned their first road win of the season without their lead­ing scorer Jim Jackson, who was placed on the injured list Friday with a sprained right knee. 
The Wizards shot 33 percent from the field and were outrebounded 50­38. 
Celtics 87, Cavaliers 72 
Antoine Walker scored 28 poirits and the Boston Celtics got their first road win of the season with a win over the Cleveland Cavaliers, who scored just four points in the second quarter. 
Paul Pierce added 20 points as the Celtics snapped a 10-game losing streak at Gund Arena and handed the Cavs their first loss at home in seven games this season. 
Boston outscored Cleveland 29-4 in the final 6:44 of the period with things getting so bad that at one point, 7 ­foot-3 center Zydrunas Ilgauskas grabbed a rebound underneath and clanged a putback dunk. 
It wasn't that Boston's defense was doing anything special. The Cavs just couldn't make shot. They missed 3­pointers, mid-range jumpers, layups and nearly everything else they put up. However, the Cavs didn't miss a free throw -they didn't try one. 
Chris Gatling's jumper and a driving layup by Robert Traylor were the only points in the quarter for the Cavs, who set a new franchise record for the fewest points in a period. 
They did manage to avoid the NBA's dubious record for fewest poinl<; in a quarter. That mark still belongs to the Dallas Mavericks, who scored just two in the third quarter against the Los Angeles Lakers on April 6, 1997. 
The Cavs didn't swre again until Andre Miller hit a jumper with 9:46 remaining in the third quarter ­snapping an 8:58 scoring drought ­and earning the team a sarcastic ova­tion from its fans. 
Eric Williams scored 12 of his 14 points on 3-pointers for the Celtics, who came in 0-4 on the road this sea­son and hadn't won in Cleveland since April 4, 1995. 
Boston didn't exactly light it up from the field, either. The Celtics shot just 43 percent from the outside but made 9 of 21 3-pointers. 
Trailing 27 -20 after one, the Celtics scored the first nine points of the sec­ond quarter but couldn't have imag­ined the run they were about to go on. With the scored tied at 31-all, Williams made consecutive 3-pointers as the Celtics ripped off 18 straight points to close the half. 
With his team launching bricks on virtually every possession, Cleveland coach Randy Wittman looked to his bench for an answer but it didn't seem to matter who was on the floor for the Cavs. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Texas has Holiday Bowl expectations 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
T~xas is expected to be invited to play in the Holiday Bowl on Dec. 29, against either Oregon State or Oregon. 
Holiday Bowl officials scheduled a news conference for Wednesday morning to announce which Big 12 team they've selected, but refused further comment. llowever, a football source, speaking un condition of anonymity, told The Associated Press the invi­tation is expected to go to the No. 12 Longhorns (9-2). 
In Austin, Texas athletic director DeLoss Dodds wouldn't confirm or deny the invita• tion. .. "I _won't r~act," he said Tuesday evening. 
We re workmg on the details. Hopefully we'll know soon. When we do, we'll call a press conference." 
This will be the first trip to San Diego f'or Texas, which is believed to covet a Holiday Bowl berth because of the recruiting expo­sure the Longhorns will receive in California. 
The Holiday Bowl would like to pair the Longhorns against No. 5 Oregon State (10-1), which remains in the Bowl Championship Series picture. The Beavers will know by Sunday if they are headed to a BCS game, or they could be released from BCS considera­tion before then. 
If Oregon State goes to the BCS, the Pacific­10 Conference's berth in the Holiday Bowl will go to No. 9 Oregon (9-2). 
No. 10 Nebraska, which lost to Arizona in the 1998 Holiday Bowl, also was considered for the Big 12's berth. Nebraska is still under consideration for a BCS game. 
Texas is coming off a 43-17 win over Texas AM. Sophomore quarterback Chris Simms, son of former New York Giants quarterback Phil Simms, had a breakout game with 383 yards passing and three touchdowns. 
the second quarter when Fr;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,i 



the Cavs shot just 2-for-19 from the floor and looked more like the worst team in the NBA than the league's most surprising squad through the season's first month. 
Cleveland didn't score in 
\. ( ,.., 11 As You Wish" ...0':\_. 

LOADS OF SILVER & BEADED JEWELRY
IMPORTS '8/, 

SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS / "\ TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPREADS PURSES. WALLETS, CHANGE PURSES, AND MUCH MUCH MORE... INCENSE SARONGS 
DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! 
ALSO. 
HUGE MOVING SALE! 
ALL CLEARANCE !TEMS MUST GO OR THEY WILL BE DONATED! 
Proceeds from sales of jewelry guarantee lhe loving hands ofGualmnalan fa111ilies 3times !11eir averayc salary as well as funds for their ed11cntion LaFortune -Room 108 (Near Telephones) NOV. 27 -DEC. 2 (SAT) 10-Spm 

2 pm, Saturty, 
December 2, 2000 
An.n.enberg Auditorium Sn.ite 'Museum of Art 
Free and open to the public 
For more information, call (219) 631-6201, or vi:;it http://www.n.d.edu/~con.goers 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 


"be the change you want to see in the world'' 
-Ghandi 

THE SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT 
• 
Devote 8 weeks to the service of those in need 

• 
Choose from 120 sites across the United States 

• 
Earn 3 theology credits (with possible crosslists) 

• 
Receive a $1 900 tuition scholarship with the option for an additional $ J 000 Americorps Scholarship 

• 
Establish valuable contacts with Notre Dame Alumni 


Fina( lnfot'Ma+iona( Mee+ing of +his Ser-,es+et' 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30 at 7:00 PM 
At the Center for Social Concerns APPLICATIONS DUE NOVEMBER 27, 2000 FOR STUDENTS STUDYING ABROAD THIS SPRING 
Wednesday, November 29, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
''What Do We Want From Story?''· 
Conference and Inaugural Lecture 
Includes: 
Margaret Ann Doody, Christopher Fox, Patrick Jehle, Teresa Phelps, Rev. Edward A. Malloy, Vilsoni Hereniko, Michael Rose, John S. Dunne Melvin Pena, Valerie Sayers, & Marina Warner 
Sponsored by the office of the Provost, the Henkels Lecture Series; the Graduate School; and by the Department of Anthropology; the Department of English; The Department of Film, Television and Theatre; the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures; the Department of Music. 

University of Notre Dame ·* November 30 -December 2 
,-------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 29, 2000 
MASTERS CUP 
Hewitt, Agassi earn 
opening round wins 
Associated Press 
LISBON, Portugal 

Pete Sampras, playing his first match in more than two months, lost 7-5, 6-0 to Lleyton Hewitt on Tuesday in the open­ing round of the Masters Cup. 
Andre Agassi, coming off a three-week break because of a hip injury, was more success­ful. beating Gustavo Kuerten 4-6, 6-4, 6-3. 
Marat Safin, seeking to become the youngest player ever to finish the year as No. 1, also won his round-robin match Tuesday. rallying past Alex Corretja 6-7 (6), 7-5, 6-3. 
Safin's victory means Sampras no longer holds even a mathematical chance of fin­ishing the year at No. 1, a feat he accomplished a record six straight times from 1993-98. Saffo increased his lead over Kuerten to 95 points. 
An appearance in the final of the $3.7 million event will secure the No. 1 spot for the 20-year-old Russian no matter what Kuerten does. 
Sampras, a five-time champi­on in the season-ending tour­nament, had not played a match since losing to Salin in the final of the U.S. Open in early September. He used the break to get married and 
promised to get into better 
shape. 
He was definitely rusty against Hewitt, dropping his serve to fall behind 6-5 in the first set and not winning another game. Sampras had 32 unforced errors, while Hewitt had only nine and passed Sampras with ease. 
"It definitely wasn't pretty out there," Sampras said. "I don't know if it was a case of not having played for a while. I knew corning into here that I might be a little rusty in the beginning." 
"It's not easy to swallow, los­ing 6-0," said Sampras, who last lost a set at love in 1996, in the semifinals of the French Open to Yevgeny Kafelnikov. 
Hewitt said Sampras, the Wimbledon champion, might have lost a little interest at the end of the second set. 
"Coming off such a big break, Pete wasn't at his best today," said the 19-year-old Australian, who lost to Sampras in the semifinals of the U.S. Open. "I knew it was a big opportunity for me to get a good match under my belt." 
Because of the round-robin format, Sampras can still advance. Every time he won the title, he lost one of his early matches. 
NFL 
Texans consider Miami coach 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

Butch Davis, who has the 
Miami Hurricanes in con­
tention for a national champi­
onship, met Tuesday with offi­
cials of the Houston Texans, 
the NFL's newest franchise. 
Davis met with team owner 
Bob McNair and general man­
ager Charley Casserley to dis­
cuss coaching the Texans, an 
expansion franchise to begin 
play in 2002. 
"Butch is a highly qualified coach, who had done an out­standing job at Miami, as he did as an assistant with the Cowboys," McNair said. "He has all the credentials in my view and certainly is well qual­ified to be head coach of the Texans." 
But McNair was quick to add this was just a meeting designed to "get to know each other." 
Davis was traveling back to Miami and unavailable for comment. 
The 49-year-old coach has guided Miami to a 10-1 record this season, his sixth with the Hurricanes. If Oklahoma loses to Kansas State in the Big 12 championship game. Miami will get a rematch with Florida State in the national title game. 
Davis was with Dallas from 1989 to 1995, the last two sea­
"Butch is a highly qualified coach, who had done an outstand­ing job at Miami, as he did as an assistant with the Cowboys. He has all the credentials in my view and certainly is well qualified to be head coach ofthe Texans." 
Bob McNalr 

sons as defensive coordinator. 
McNair praised Davis' coach­ing experience, citing his role in helping former Cowboys head coach Jimmy Johnson transform the 1-15 club of 1989 into Super Bowl champi­ons after the 1992 and 1993 seasons. McNair also credited Davis with returning Miami's program to dominance despite having the number of scholar­ships he could offer over his first three years on the job cut by 31 because of NCM sanc­tions. 
McNair said such ability in ttie face of adversity is needed in coaching an expansion team. 
"An expansion team is differ­ent than going into an existing situation," he said. "It will be important to be prepared for some adversity because it's 
going to take several years to 
put together a solid team." 
Davis is the first of five to 10 
potential candidates the 
Texans might interview in the 
coming months. The two quali­
fications all candidates must 
have are head coaching expe­
rience and NFL experience, 
McNair said. 
The team might make a deci­sion either in February 2001 or February 2002. Although the Texans would prefer nam­ing a coach in 2002, McNair said he might make a decision sooner if' the situation war­ranted. 
While the meeting with Davis was publicized, the Texans won't always announce who they are meeting with, McNair said. 
Alabama also is interested in having Davis fill its head coaching vacancy. 
Miami athletic director Paul Dee said he has offered Davis an extension to his current contract. which pays him about $900,000 annually and has three years remaining. 
McNair believes Alabama has a good shot at hiring Davis. 
"Certainly Alabama is a great institution and some­thing that is attractive to a number of coaches," he said. "And certainly there will be other opportunities in the NFL." 




A Child's Christmas 
YSANDTAl 
A COLLECTION OF TOYS AND BOOKS FOR DISADVANTAGED CHILDREN OF THE SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY 
HOW TO PARTICIPATE 
1) Go to WWW.toysandtales.org 
2) Select 'University of Notre Dame 3)Choose a child 4)Buy gift and book 5)Place wrapped and labled gift in the 
collection box in any dorm 


Wednesday, November 29, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Oklahoma's Heupel, Stoops awarded 
. Heupel, Stoops win player, coach of the year honors 
Associated Press 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 

Oklahoma's Josh Heupel and Bob Stoops won the Walter Camp player and coach of the year awards Tuesday. 
Heupel, quarterback for the No. 1 Sooners, led the team to an 11 ·0 record. In only his sec­ond year, Stoops took Oklahoma to the top of the national rank­in gs for the first time since 1987. 
It marked only the third time a player and coach from the same school were honored in the same year. 
The winners of the awards. named for the former Yale coach who helped develop the rules of the game, are picked by a national panel of Division I-A coaches and sports information directors. 
Stoops and Heupel will be honored at the Walter Camp 34th national awards banquet on Feb. 10 at the Yale University Commons in New Haven. 
Heupel also was honored Tuesday as The Sporting News' player of the year. The St. Louis-based magazine selected Oregon State's Dennis Erickson as the coach of the year, and Florida receiver Jabar Gaffney as the freshman of the year. 
A Way to Peace or Peace is the Way? 
CATHOLIC 
PERSPECTIVES 
ON 
ROTC 
MILITARY CHAPLAINCY 
With talks by: 
Rev. Bill Doiwart, CSC 
Provincial of Indiana Province of Holy Cross & Former U.S. Navy Chaplain 
& 
Rev. Tom Doyle, CSC 
Rector of Keough Hall, 
Staff Member of ND Campus Ministry & Chaplain to ND ROTC Students 
Wednesday, November 29th 
7:00pm 
Center for Social Concerns 
Pax Christi t Notre Dame 
(()py SHOP 
Lafortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
Phone 631-COPY 
Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm• Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
Copyright 2000 • All Rights Reserved • 11 /00 
NFL 

Packers' Dotson ends season with injury 
Associated Press 
Green Bay Packers defensive lineman Santana Dotson's sea­son is over. 
The Packers' locker room leader and pillar of consistency partially tore the quadriceps tendon just above his right knee in the second quarter of Green Bay's loss at Carolina on Monday night. 
General manager Ron Wolf said tests Tuesday revealed that the nine-year veteran needs an operation and an off­season of rehabilitation to be ready for the 2001 season. 
Meanwhile. Brett Favre needs another cast, and not the type he wore on his badly sprained left foot two weeks ago. 
In spite of all his injuries, including tendinitis in his throwing elbow and a perpetu­ally swollen thumb, Favre has regained his form. 
His supporting cast hasn't. 
Last year, a bruised and swollen thumb contributed to a sub-par season in which Favre threw 23 interceptions and failed to lead Green Bay to the playoffs for the first time in seven seasons. 
This year, the trouble is his teammates. 
Favre, who has started an NFL-record 137 consecutive games, is throwing the ball with as much zip as ever. On Monday night, he threw a bul• let pass to Donald Driver that traveled 50 yards on a line. 
He's just 107 yards shy of joining Dan Marino as the only quarterbacks ever to pass for 3,000 yards in nine consecutive seasons. 
Favre has even curtailed his gunslinger habits because he recognizes the Packers can no longer atone for his aggressive tendencies through superior talent and depth. 
Departures and injuries have left the Packers a shell of the team that dominated in the late 1990s. The Packers (5-7) now enter games with little or no margin for error. 

As professionals, 

Lafortune Student Center will provide you with high-quality documents. We pride ourselves on being masters of accuracy. Whether you have manuals, brochures, or other copy projects, you can be sure of receiving· the highest level of accuracy for your dollar. We'll show you what accuracy is all about! 
High Volume Copying & Printing Cofor Copying, Scanning & Printing Binding/ Tabs/ Laminating/ Fax Service Newsletters / Reports / Business Cards Desktop Publishing Service 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! Quality Copies, Quickly!'" 
www.CopyShopND.com 


That's why, Favre said, he can't try to win games by him­self anymore -except in the fourth quarter, when he regu­larly finds himself trying to rally his team from self-inflict­ed damage. 
Nine of Favre's 13 intercep­tions have come in the fourth quarter. 
Despair set in earlier than usual for the Packers in their demoralizing 31-14 loss to Carolina Monday night. 
Green Bay found itself down 14-0 early on to a makeshift Panthers lineup coming in at 4­7. 
"At that point it didn't seem like we could stop them," Favre said. 
The Packers don't seem capable of stopping anybody once they fall behind. 
Besides Favre, they have no playmakers. No Dorsey Levens, no Robert Brooks, no Mark Chmura. no Earl Dotson. 
Favre has two rookie tackles protecting him in Chad Clifton and Mark Tauscher. Rookie tight end Bubba Franks and Ahmau Green, a first-time starter at halfback, are prone to drops and fumbles. 
Coach Mike Sherman, who has preached a return to fun­damental football since replac­ing Ray Rhodes last winter, is particularly piqued by the drops, which have come in bunches of up to a dozen a game. 
Then, there's Antonio Freeman, a colossal disap­pointment since signing a $42 million deal 15 months ago that at the time made him the high­est-paid receiver in the NFL. 
Freeman entered this season intent on avoiding a repeat of last year, when he never got going after a long holdout and finished with 7 4 catches for 1,074 yards and six TDs -a down year by his lofty stan­dards. 
But his numbers are down even more this season. 
Although he has six TDs already, Freeman is averaging just 3.67 catches a game, down from 4.63 a year ago, and his per-game yardage is down from 67 to 54. 
He committed a crucial fum­ble deep in Packers territory Monday night that led to a Carolina touchdown. Two weeks ago, he knocked the ball out of an official's hand for a 15-yard penalty that took the Packers out of field goal range in a close game at Tampa and cost him a $10,000 fine. 
And the defense hasn't been able to offset the offensive blunders. 
The P.a.ckers' top two defend­ers, linebacker Brian Williams and cornerback Mike McKenzie, have hardly been heard from because of injuries. 
!ri~b ftibe 
www.irisnwear.com 



Football 
continued from page 20 
onto the ball at all costs, their opponents haven't been able to do the same. USC, which wound up 5-7 largely because of its 35 turnovers, including two inter­ceptions and a lost fumble against Notre Dame. 
"We win because other teams turn the ball over," Davie said. "We don't turn the ball over." 
Notre Dame's low number of turnovers has the Irish in BCS contention for the first time in years. 
Leading the error-free play for the Irish is an 18-year-old fresh­man, quarterback Matt Lovecchio. In seven games played as a starter and one as a reserve, he has thrown just one interception. 
That's not a typo. LoVccchio's lone interception came back in mid-October against Navy. 
Because Lovecchio has played in less than 75 percent of Notre Dame's games. he is not eligible for the NCAA record books. 
But if you're interested in a comparison, of the 50 players at the top of the passing list in Division I-A football, the fewest interceptions thrown is four, by Toledo's Tavares Bolden. Heisman candidates Drew Brees of Purdue, Josh Heupel of Oklahoma and Chris Weinke of Florida State have thrown 34 between them. 
Granted, LoVecchio has attempted fewer passes than any of the lleisman candidates (he's 73-for-125). But his passing effi­ciency marks are 151. 70, good enough for seventh best in the nation. 
"The guy gets you into the right play almost every time," Davie said or LoVecchio. "There are a minimal amount of botched plays. He's dropped one snap this year." 
Award-winning Irish 
Linebacker Anthony Denman highlights the football team's list of award-winners this year. 
The leading Notre Dame tack­ler this year with 78, Denman was named a second-team All­American by The Sporting News, while Football News picked him as a third-team All-American and the Independent Player of the Year. The 6-foot-2, 235­pound captain also tops the Irish team with five sacks and 13 tackles for losses. 

Joining Denman on the All­Independent team are tailback Fisher, offensive guard Mike Gandy, defensive end Anthony Weaver, free safety Tony Driver and punter Joey Hildbold. 
In addition, senior receiver and punt returner Joey Getherall has been named the fourth-best returner in the nation by CBS Sportsline. 
"He has some magic to him," Davie said of Getherall. "He is unbelievably productive when he gets his hands on the football." 
Coach of the Year? 
The Irish honors extend beyond the players. · 
Davie is one of three finalists for the Football News 2000 National Coach of the Year Award, along with Oklahoma coach Bob Stoops and former Irish coach and current South Carolina coach Lou Holtz. 
Some Irish fans demanded Davie's head after last year's 5-7 Irish record, not expecting much out of a team that would face five teams that made bowl appearances in '99 in its first five games. Davie pushed the Irish to a 3-2 record through five games, with the losses coming in overtime against then-No. 1 Nebraska and on one botched play in the final two minutes at Michigan State. 
Davie's job got a little tougher after losing starting quarterback Arnaz Battle and captain Grant Irons at defensive end to injuries in the Nebraska game. Yet Lovecchio and Ryan Roberts proved able replacements, and the Irish are 9-2 and looking at a BCS bid. 
Stoops has led the Sooners to a No. 1 ranking, an 11-0 record and a near lock on the Orange Bowl. Holtz has engineered a Gamecocks improvement from a winless season in '99 to 7-4 this year. 
The winner will be announced Wednesday. Dec. 6. 
.. 

r. .
::.>mmu . 
fiom 0UTPCIIT Campus 
COlt,peflllVfl In nwy _,_.. 


Call 259-1000 fot more det~ 
Please Recycle The Observer. 

"Our calling is to serve the Lord Jesus in mission not as independent individuals but as a brotherhood." 
(Constitutions of the Congregation of Holy Cross, IV.33) 
ANSWER ~ 
THECALL W 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Please join us for an organizational 
meeting this Thursday at 8:30 
E-mail info@outreachnd.org for a location 
All ND/SMC/HCC students are welcome 

Wednesday, November 29, 2000 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


#81•E•••E••s 'ETB.1.1. 
lfS. IIIIIIIIIIII 
100 studenttickets willgo·on sale Fridav, Bee. 1 at9am. Stan llJI tlle Javce Centergate 10 ticket windows. Don'tmiss lllis BBC. Iii/I 911m ESPN matcll-UD. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
SO ~;;..,;.~ BAGEL AH ~..+.~ OLIVE 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
64 Hole in the wall? 1 65 It's pointless 66 Fiber in fake furs 67 Old World 
language 
DOWN 
1 "Don't make _!" 2 Red Bordeaux 3 It may be picked up at Starbucks 4 Psychiatric problem 5 Kicked off 6 Not so rigid 7 Prepares to fire 8 Longing 9 Idaho motto starter 
10 With 10-Across, a phrase of good wishes 11 German city on 
the Danube 12 Lincoln center? 13 With 62-Across, 
a 1950 best seller Puzzle by Thoma ¦ W. Schier 21 2000 N.BA 
34 No, in Novgorod

championship 
35 Meditation

star 
sounds

22 Off one's feed 
38 Music Longstocking collectibles 26 Actor John or 39 Patsy's Sean "Absolutely 27 Recognize in a Fabulous· pal nice way 
25 Miss 
40 Like a volcano 29 Feeder filler 
45 Electronics whiz 

30 Sign off 
46 W.W. II battle

31 Apartment 1-A 
site, for short 

resident. maybe 32 Inedible orange 47 Cassatt medium 33 Sleep on it 49 Chance 
HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2000 
CELEBRffiES BORN ON THIS DAY: Diane Ladd, Chuck Mangione, Garry Shandling, Charles Grant, Cathy Moriarty 
Happy Birthday: You will drive toward success relentlessly this year and will be blatant about your desires. You will be disciplined and eager to make your mark, but you must not neglect personal responsi­bilities in the interim. Your numbers: 9, 14, 19, Zl, 35, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Use your energy to start those changes that you've been planning for your home. Focus on pleasing those you love and be sure to ask for their help. Invite friends over to socialize. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be restless, so make plans. Visit­ing friends will bring satisfaction. You will win the hearts of those you love through yoUI unselfish actions. 
0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Unre­alistic financial expectations may be the cause of an emotional setback. Don't promise to donate to a cause if you really can't afford to. Lending money to a friend will end in disaster. 
000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can expect to be excessively emotion­al. Try not to start arguments. You may find yourself sitting all alone if you don't control your nagging. You will have a tendency to overeat. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Changes 
regarding your position may not be 
as you expected. Accept them and 
continue with your work. Problems 
with parking or speeding tickets 
should not be ignored. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Help 
Birthday Baby: You have abundant energy that must be put to good use. The more involved you become in helping others throughout your life, the more you will receive in return. You are a doer and a giver, sensitive and 
caring.
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
children with projects they don't understand. Look into groups that will allow you to spend more time with your offspring. Consider a farn· ily membershlp to your community center. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put any ideas of romantic interludes with someone at work (especially a supe­rior) out of your mind. It will only ensure that you won't have a job in the near future. Infatuations appear to be preoccupying your mind. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
You'll have a greater interest in travel and foreign cultures. Sign up for a philosophy rourse that will offer you the mental stimulation and the addi• tional knowledge you desire. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): You will have problems with your stomach if you don't stay away from those spicy foods you love. Curb your eating habits and start getting in shape instead. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your emotional partner will be extremely affectionate in return if you've been attentive. If you aren't in a relationship right now, this is a . good day to get out and meet new people. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You can expand on your ingenious 
ideas at work. Make your presenta­
tion, and don't be afraid to put your­
self on the line. Travel will lead to 
opportunities that will be hard to 
turn down. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Exhaustion is evident. You need a 
break. Look into a relaxing vacation 
that allows you to sit back and con­
template your future plans. 000 

Fox TROT 
HOW'S 'YOUR WELL, soo-woRD SASEO ON H1ST0RY PAPER PAST PER­COMING? FoRMANCE, I'M ALl<£AD'I'

WHAT  I ICNoW I'LL USE  
Do YOU  THE WORD "THE"  
ME.AN?  A8oUT 25 TIMES,  

-' '),r,ID" AT LEAST 15. 
"1N," "1F," "1T" ANO "suT" SHOULD {;,1VE ME ANOTHER 30-40. Toss IN THE USUAL "15," "wAs," "w1LL SE'' VEli!S ASSoRTMENT AND I'M SITTING, COMfoRTASLY AT 120•PLUS WORDS 
BEFORE l 
EVE.N START. 

O+ course. Bool<sfo~ 
I 
20% 
off 
BILL AMEND 
THE kE.Y To 

YOU NEVER THANKS. 
WRITIN(;, A 
FAIL To WHO'D WE 
HISTORY ESSAY 

AMAZE ME. F1GHT IN IS kNOWll'IIG I WoRLO WAR I, YOUR ESSAY BY THE WAY? 
HISTo'R'f. 
I 
I 

When your parents get the bill for their Christmas presents, remind them that it's the thought that counts. 
50 Leave rubber, in 55 Grant basis a way 
56 "Prices 51 Suez Can~I sight 57 Modern-day gas 52 Butcher shop hog buys 58 61-Across locale 53 Related on the 59 It's picked in mother's side Hawaii 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from lh& last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 
1 Make dash for 5 Something golden 10 See 10-Down 14 Bare 15 Labor's partner 16 It may be on a roll 17 Land of Esau's descendants 18 Get by coercion 19 Counterfeiter catchers 
20 Start of a punny definition of 44-Across 
23 Supermarket checkout g1zmos 
24 Eddie of the 40's-50's Yankees 
28 Late Knight 29 Like a 44-Across 31 Bulgaria's 
capital 34 Verb preceder 36 Sp. simoleon 37 Middle of the 
definition 41 Massage part 42 Cutworm, e.g. 43 Shirley Temple, 
for one 44 Subject of this 
puzzle 47 More, in music 48 Freshen up 49 Lincoln. 
physically 54 End of the 
definition 57 "No way!" 60 Worry greatly 61 Pelvic bones 62 See 13-Down 63 Like a maple 
leaf 

page 20 

VOLLEYBALL 
PORTS 
r\I,HE
vnSERVER 
Staying ahead 

Preseason All-American Shane Battier and the Duke Blue Devils cling to their number one spot by edging over Jllinois 78-77. 
page 12 

Battier 

Wednesday, November 29, 2000 
Irish end regular-season play with loss to No. 3 USC 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN Spons Wrirer 
Notre Dame volleyball built a 2-1 lead in the match against No. 3 USC before falling in the last two games to drop the five game match (5-15, 17-15, 17-15, 7-15, 11-15) on Saturday. 
"USC was a legitimate third in the poll rankings. but our team came out and fought hard for every point," sophomore Keara Coughlin said. "We found ourselves taking games away from them even though our statistics for the match were nut at our usual level." 
After not being able to come back from an 8-2 deficit in the loss of game 
1. the Irish came on strong in game 2 to take a 14-10 lead. Then USC put up a fight, scoring five points to take the lead. Notre Dame hung on for the 17-15 win. 
Freshman Kim Fletcher racked up a career-high 10 kills in the game. 
In game 3 action, the Irish built an 8-3 lead before falling apart to allow the Trojans to take the 13-11 lead. Seniors Christi Girton and Denise Boylan each struck hard with a kill to give the Irish the tie before USC took the lead. With a burst of strength, Notre Dame stole back the lead and the win. 
USC took the early 8-3 lead in game 4 and went on to win as the Irish 
couldn't fight back. 
Game 5 went back and forth between both teams with USC pulling ahead in the end for the win. 
"After losing in five games to a talented team llke USC," Coughlin said. "we were able to leave California itching to get back in the gym for prac­tice this week and then start off our post season at the level at which we have proven we can com­pete." 
Senior Christi Girton led the Irish in their last reg­ular season game with 22 kills and 16 digs while junior Kristy Kreher fol­lowed with 18 kills. Junior Malinda Goralski added 16 kills. 
USC moved to 25-2 on the season with their fourth win over the Irish. Notre Dame has just one win in its history against the Trojans, a 1995 victo­ry. 
Next up for Notre Dame will be the first round in the NCAA tournament where it will face Cincinnati on Friday night. 
"Even before going into the match on Friday," Coughlin said. "we knew that our performance against USC would mean a lot. In the back of our minds, we knew that what we did on Friday would affect our match-up in NCAA as well as our atti­tudes going into the tour­nament." 

INSIDE SAINT MARY'S SPORTS 
Belles start season with wins 
They say the road to success is a long 
road paved with many obstacles, but that it is a road worth trav­eling. This past week­end. the 


Saint 
Katie McVoy

Mary's bas­ketball team 
Assistant 

proved that 
Sports Editor

following that road is not only worth traveling, but it is imperative to travel the road. 
Following a long history of starting off the home season with a losing record, the Belles will start their home stand this Friday with a 3-2 record after coming off a tournament victo­ry at Marietta over Thanksgiving. 
A column I wrote earlier in November described team and fans' hopes that this year would be more successful than last year for the Saint Mary's bas­ketball team. The team's 2-1 record over break surpassed those hopes. at least in the early part of the season. 
In addition to having a win­ning record, the Belles current­ly have an MIM player of the week in sophomore Kristen Matha and hold the leading spots in several MIM cate­gories. Matha holds the No. 1 spot in most rebounds in a game and most blocked shots in a game. Leigh Ann Matesich and Katie Christiansen are tied for the top spot with most assists in a game. 
Why the sudden success? 
If you were to ask head coach Suzanne Smith, she would attribute the success to her team's confidence; she would 
see MCVOY/page 12 

FOOTBALL 
Ball control, BCS bid go hand-in-hand 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Head coach Bob Davie's plan for Notre Dame's running backs to tote the football with them every waking minute in the early season has paid off in the form of a 9-2 record. 
After last year's Irish com­mitted 30 turnovers -15 interceptions and 15 fumbles lost, Davie decided his players needed some extra practice keeping the ball in their hands. 
So he gave Julius Jones, Tony Fisher, Terrance Howard and teammates the order to carry the pigskin everywhere they went, be it practice, class or the dining hall. 
Eleven games later, the Irish rank first in the nation with just eight turnovers. 
Not only is that mark a Notre Dame record, besting the previ­ous mark of 10 set in 1993, it also ties an NCAA record. 
While the Irish have held 
see FOOTBALL/page 18 

• 
Women's Swimming at Miami
vs. North Carolina Notre Dame Invitational Friday, 7 p.m. 
College Cup semifinal
SPORTS 
Thursday-Saturday Friday, 5 p.m. 

Volleyball
ATA 

Sf 
vs. Cincinnati
• Men's Swimming ac. Lake Superior State NCAA tournament Notre Dame Invitational 

•, Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
~ at Columbus, Ohio
GLANCE 
~
Thursday-Saturday Sunday, 7 p.m. 





