
Protesting pollution 
Romanian citizens protest deformity-causing leacl and cyanide pollution. 
WorldNation . page 5 

THE 
VOL XXXlll NO. 86 
Wrong is wrong 
ND community continues to respond to student antics at the UConn basketball game. 
Viewpoint . page 11 

Friday 
FEBRUARY 18, 2000 

HTTP:!/OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


O'Donoghue wins; Hanover disqualified, will appeal 
• Election Committee forfeits Hanover/ Micek for e-mail campaign violations 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Edtror 
OutsirlP lht> studpnt g-ovr>rnmenl ot'f'icP Thursday night, a crowd gaLlwrPd. fWPring through tlw win­dow at llw randicJatPs and election ol"lifials insidP. 
"This is going to bt• onP or the goof"i1•st dPctions of' all time," pre­cl ic t 1~ d St u d P n t Un io n Lr e as u r P r .lanws J(\SS<L "Just watd1. sonrn­thing is going to happ('!l." 
About 2'.i minutPs laLP1·. som1'­thing indl'Pd did happPn ,vhPn Judi<"ial Collnril prPsidPnt KPlly Folks opPIH'd th(' door and a111H1u11rPd tlw rPstills. 
"Bl'raUSl' ol" a rorl'Pit by thP lla1wv1•r/!\lirl'k tickt'l," Folks said, '"The O'l>onoghtw/Norton tirkPt has won. p<'tHling an app1'al." 
Tlw L!Pl'Lion Committ<'P forfeited llunt llanover and John Mi1·pk from thl' run-of"!' e!Pction bPcausP of l h !'!'I' Vi O ( a Li O 11 S Of r a Ill pa jg 11 bylaws, thus giving virt()ry Lo Brian ()'l)onoglnw and Brook1' NtJrton. 
()np ol" Lhl' violations involv1id Mic-haPl Fairchild. a llanovPr/Min'k supportPr and sPnior from Alumni Hall. P-mailing on bcdia!J' of Lht' campaign 1111 Pln!"Lion day. Campaigning on 1d(iction days is prohibit1•d. Fairchild dt•clined to 
l'OllllllP11l. 
Tlw olh!'r lwo violations or.currPd whPn llanov1\r c-mailed students in Alumni and llrn<!n-Phillips llalls on belrnll" or his rnmpaign. ThP Student SenalP prohibitnd the US(' of e-mail in campaigns al ils Jan. 26 meeting. 
llanovcr and l\licek will appeal thP dPrision of the EIPction CommilLPP. according to Dan Peale, their campaign manager. 
After tlw rnsults w11rn announced. 
neither tirket would comment. but 
no onP sp1•med to br.liPvn this w,ts 
tlw Pnd of the rarP. 
"Tlw PIPction is in limbo." said studPnt body vice pn•sid1\t1l Michael 
Palumbo. 
,ee ELECTION/page 4 


Judicial Council president Kelly Folks (above) announces the Election Committee's vote to forfeit Hanover/Micek's candidacy. O'Donoghue (right) reacts to the decision. 

Trustees to vote on construction of· new Dalloway's 
By MOLLY McVOY 
News Wrir<:r 
The fate or the new Saint Mary's clubhouse, better known as the new home of Dalloway's Coffeehouse, is in the hands nf the Board of Trustees this week­end. 
At this point, the decision fac­ing the Board may have much to do with the lack of funds avail­able for the building. 
The Board will have on its agenda the proposal of the tloor plans for the new clubhouse, If approved. it will be built on the far south part of campus near the proposed Welcome Center, with ground breaking aimed at March 15 and completion by the start of fall semester. 
The proposed'clubhouse will cost an estimated $650,000, acr,ording to Keith Dennis, vice president of finance and admin­istration, and Hichard Russell, 
vir.e president for College rela­tions. Currently, only $270,000 has been raised for the project. 
"We're hoping to get approval from [the Board] to proceed even without funds," Russell said. "We have a solid plan." 
Members of the parents' coun­
cil. who began fundraising for renovation of' the existing club­house, will head the effort. Jim and Colleen Ryan are the current chairs of the council, but Bobby and John Riconosduto will soon take over. In the interim, Russell has stepped in to organize the effort. The parents· council is still in the process of deciding how the money will be raised, but it anticipates success. 
"Jim and I have fundraised before, and arc confident [the fundsl will be raised in a timely manner," said Colleen Ryan. Russe II explained that if the Board determines construction cannot start until all funds have been secured, the March 15 deadline will be a challenge. 
"That's going to be a tall order," Russell said. "$350,000 is a lot of money. but its not a daunting figure. Its an achiev­able goal in a relatively short time." Dennis r,xpressed his con­fidence that the new facility will greatly benefit the students, but sees funding as a hurdle still to 
overcome. "It will be a bigger, and better building [than the current club-
see TRUSTEES/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, February 18, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Falling, slipping and sliding 
As a shclternd Southern Californian. I have had little contact with a certain aspect of South Bend winters: snow. Until attending Notre Dame. I had little experience dealing 
with it on a dailv basis. Not surprisingly. my arrival to the Mid~est evoked manv snow-related questions. Will I be warm enough in regular jeans. sweaters and a coat"? Do I have the right shoes, or will I need shoes with 

Lila Haughey 
Assistant 
Viewpoint falitur 
spikes in the bottom to walk on ire and those snowshoes that thev wear on cartoons that 
look like tennis rackets'? 

Besides these questions and an adventurous disposition. my uneasiness was compounded when I devr,loped a deep-rooted fear of falling, slipping and sliding. Originating in a recent slip in u. bu.thtub that tore a ligament in my knee and extending to severnl trips. falls and slips tlwn·al'tcr that dislocated tlw same kne,~. these arcidcnts allowed nw to concludr, that I could not rely on my legs under normal conditions. let alone in extreme slippery ones. Wintf'r was more than a force out to destroy me: it was a nightmare. 
The firsl big snowstorm at Notre Dame was an exciting experience: it was beautiful and magical. but not so wonderful to walk in. I hobbled carefully acrnss campus delicately placing my feet on the ground and consulting my roommates overy step of the way for advice on how to remain standing. 
Fortunately. that winter wu.s mild. During my freshman yeu.r. I could get to dass on time without looking like an 80-year-old. Soon. I had become cumfortable enough with the snow to slide across it on my stomach (it's not as soft as it looks) and I l'rnq uently tried to construcl and th row snowballs. 
My initial introduction to snow was kind: however. my sophomore year I rPceived a blow to my newfound snow-confidence. Feeling securn in the cold element, I exited Zahm Hall one evening and slippPd on an icy stone stair. My fof)t flew up into tlw air and my life flashed beforp my tsyns. I cringed at the pain that was soon to come as my bohonkus landed on the hard stone. Amid my friend's laughter and a floor full of Zahmbies' laughter from above, I too laughed at my pain and the comical slip. (After a week of bruises and a trip to the infirmary I was okay.) 
I survived the worst snowfall. with little grace, but a lot of humor. This year I dedded to conquer one of the last hurdles with snow. I put aside my fear of falling. resurrected my adventurous and daring inclinations and I went skiing! l lnarnnd to ski with several other ND studr,nts. 
We struggled but we managed lo stand and slide down a hill on two skis. Although skiing was relatively painless. I did fall. I did get stuck on standing with my legs spread into the splits. I did worry about getting safely off the chair lift. I did consider just staying on it and going back around to build up courage. I did advance fbrief1y) past the bunny hill. 
Most of all. I had fun -lots of it! It may have taken 3 years. but it was worth it. I figure while I am here (wlrnre winwr is :i months long). I should confront my fears. especially that of snow falling. Mu.ybt!, just rnaybo. next year. I will c:onquer driving in tlw snow! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Erin l'iroutek  Amanda Grt:co  
MariLd /\lorc:v  Graphics  
Nicole H,idtbd  Joe Mueller  
Sports  Production  
Kerry Smith  Noah Amsradtcr  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary l\larg,irer Nus,haum  Kevin O,du111  

The Ohmver (l;S!', ,•1•1 2-1000) i, p11hli,hed Mond,l)' ,hruoµh Frid.,)' fXCl"pr during t'x,tm .uul v,t(',11 ititl pt'tiods. i ht' Ohserv,:r i:; ;t ll1L"1llhl'r of dir Assrn:i,ncd Prt':>\ All rcprmluniun ri~l1rs ,ire· rt'St'f\.'t=d 

THIS WEEK IN ND/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Debate focus on contraception 
Fob. 18, 1994 L>cbaie was held between Stanford and Sorin Halls. One side argued that contraceptives should not be distrib­uted within the University because it would threaten the school's Catholic: Traditions. The anti-contraception side won unanimously by the panel of judges. "The availability of condoms may promote promiscuity on campus." said one Stanford speaker. 
Students build shack in S. African protest Feb. 20, 1986 Seven Howard residonts built a shack on their front lawn and hung banners that said "Constructive Engagement Continues Enslavement" because they wanted Notre Dame 
. 
to divest l'rom South Africa. Similar to their Ivy League peers. students protested Hesburgh's talk against African divestment. After hearing the students. Hesburgh wa.,:; still unsure that divestment was the right thing to do. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 
First woman takes presidency at Brown U. 
PHOVJl)El\'CE. H.J. 
Sheila Blumstein rnade University history last week when she was named interim president. marking thn first time that Brown has had a woman as its president. As 13lumstnin takes her place at thn top of Brown's administration, she is surrounded by many other senior administrators who are women ­a phenomenon not yet common­place in today's male-dominated society. 
Although Blumstein is a trailblaz­er for Brown. she is by no mr,ans the first woman university presi­dent. Women took college presi­dencies as early as the 1930s, when Ada Louise Comstock was president of Hadcliffe College. 
Only in rrcent years have women taken the presidencies of major research institutions. Nan Keohane 
"Women make up a small percentage oftotal university presidents.•· 
Jacqueline King director of federal policy analysis, American Council on Education 
was one of the first female presi­dents of a major research institu­tion. appointed to the Duke University presidency in 1993. 
"At the time, there was some dis­cussion on Duke having the courage to make this appoint­ment," said Duke Senior Vice President John Burness. 
Judith Rodin became the first female president of an Ivy League institution when she became presi­dnnt of' the University of Pennsylvania in 1994. Immediatcly preceding Hodin was interim presi­dent Claire Fagin, who served in 1993. 
The only other woman who has held the title of interim president of 
u.n Ivy Leu.gue institution is Hannah Grey. who served as interim presi­dent of Yale Univnrsity from 1977 until 1978. She later went on to serve as the first woman president of a major research institution, at the University of Chicago, retiring in 1998. 
"Women make up a small per­centage of total university presi­dents. and an even smaller per­centage of presidents of major research institutions," according to Jac:queline King, director of federal policy analysis for the American Council on Education. 
U. Penn sit-in officially ends 
Pl IIIADELPHIA 
The student anti-sweatshop protesters ended their nine-day sit-in Tuesday as University President Judith Hod in onicially withdrew from the Fair Labor Association and promised to re-evaluate factory monitoring options. Tuesday afternoon, Hodin faxed a letter of withdrawal to the FLA. which had been monitoring the manufacture of Penn logo apparel. The agreement also specifies that the Ad Hoc Committee on Sweatshop Labor comprised of studenl~. faculty and administrators -will evaluate the different monitoring organizations and make a recom­mendation to Rodin by February 29. Rodin said she was pleased with the outcome, calling it a "strategy with no strings attachr,d." She added that this decision "will wipe the slate clean and have the committee continue to do its work." Members of Penn Students Against Sweatshops expressed high spiril'i at the c:onclusion of their protest. The agreement made Penn the iirst school to withdraw from the FIA, which activists maintain is biased and inet~ fective. "We feel as a result of our actions President Rodin has made a good decision," PSAS member and College sophomore Harrison Blum said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
S l>ay South Bend Forecast AccuWcaLhcr'~' forcrast for daytime conditions and high tcrnpernlures 
H  L  
Friday  Q  36  28  
Saturday  Q·.;,·.:-'  35  18  
Sunday  ~1·•:•·•:-'  35  25  
Monday  L1  44  30  
j  
Tuesday -;;_1.._ . ..,x.,.,..,_  •' \·,.i-'  ..  ~· ··' "" ...... '  46  34  



Q.Q,~9.QQ·i) ~ d 
Sho\vers T-storms Rain flurries Snow Ice Surmy Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associatsd Prass GraphlcsNsl 
Activists take over dean's office 
ANN ARBOR. Mich. 
The battles between anti-sweatshop activists and university administrators centered on Big Ten campus­es Wednesday as members of Students Organizing for Labnr and Ernnomic Equality seized the office of University of Michigan LSA Dean Shirley Neuman and students at the University of Wisconsin at Madison took over the o!Tice of Chancellor David Ward. It was busi­ness as usual in the office of the LSA dean until two students from SOLE entered the office asking to see her about a pilot sign language program, an office secre­tary said. Minutes later, about 20 members of SOLE took control of the office demanding that University President Lee Bollinger c:ommit the University to the Worker Rights Consortium. a student-developed policy to enforce collegiate labor codes. After SOLE members had established their position in the office, LSA senior Andrew Cornell read a statement that stressed the group's policy of' nonviolence and its commitment to workers' rights. SOLE members constructed in the dean's ollice a "symbolic sweatshop to bring the issue of workers' rights closer to home," Cornell said. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<" forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 18. 


<0 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
®·-©  D  E.l [IT]  D  .  E:m  
High  Low  Shower•  Rain  T••torme  Flurries  Snow  Ice  

Anchorage  35  33  Chicago  39  29  New Orleans  79  60  
Allanta  69  55  Honolulu  81  66  New York  79  60  
Berkeley  59  44  Los Angeles  63  53  Rapid C11y  31  15  
Boston  30  26  Louisville  61  41  Savannah  70  57  
Boulder  33  19  Miami  81  72  Wash DC  45  39  



Friday, February 18, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Festival celebrates 






African films 
Ky MIKE VANEGAS 
N..:-w.-. \X1riH:t 
This Sundav, th(' ,\friran and .\li·1ran-,\m.<'riran Studil's i>rngrnm prPsl'nts tlw '"F1'stival ol' Films on .\l'rint and t!w .\lrirnn Diaspora... whirh will last until tlw Pnd of tlw month. Tlw fpstival cPl«'braws rin1'• matir 1•11di>,1vors bv mRmlwrs ol" tl11' .\l'riran an·d :\!'ricun­,\11wri('a1J l'ommunity, as wt>ll a~ li!ms that illuminatP tlw ru!­Lu rtd pr1,s1'ncc ol' tlw :-;,1mc community. Its goals ·also includP t. xpanding cultural awur<'IH'.ss al :'1/oLn' DanH'. arcording to Ilugh Page, dirce­tor ol' llw .\l'rirnn and Afrirnn­1\1111,ricun Studi!\S Program. 
"lit isl an l'Xpression of our rommitnwnl to pruvidE\ th(' Univt>rsity and grnat.«~r \·lichiana cornm11nitiPs with nducational and i·ultural Pvcmts Lhat illt'nmsr: µublii' awan'm,ss abu11t tlw rwopl1•s or .-\f'ric·u ,tnd tlw many .\frodiaspora rom­m unitins throughout tb,, world." he said. 
Tlw kslival begins with a srrnen ing of' "Sankol'n." pr<'· i:pded· bv an African drum and dancP ri'('ilal. l(arh subsPquent dav will inC'.ludP similar activi­li1'; -it lilm srnrnning and a panPl disl'ussion or modPral<'d forum. 
ThP l'1•stival grnw 0L1l of tlw Al'rkan SludPnts' Association .\l'rican f'ilm sDrii~s of past wars. and rnnws during Black j listory Month. 
Featured Films 
• 
"Sankofa" 

• 
"Warrior Marks" 

• 
"Pieces d'ldentite" 

• 
"Women with Open Eyes" 

• 
"La Genese" 

• 
"Frosh" 

• 
"Shattering the Silences" 


+ "La Tete Dans Les Nuages" 
• 
"Cry the Beloved Country" 

• 
"Behind These Walls: Mumia Abu-Jamal and the. Long Struggle for Freedom" 


+ "Black Athena" 
• "A Son of Africa" 
Films shown at Hesburgh Center Auditorium, Feb. 20-29. 
"It is our i'.Ontribution to the campus-wide c1\lebration of' Black Historv Month and our gil't to the many publics served by the UnivRrsity," said Page . 
The festival will take place at thP llesburgh Center for lntnrnational Studies. 
Design a logo, symbol or icon for the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. We invite submissions for a design suitable for use in both electronic and print media. Designs may be created in the colors and medium of the artist's choice but should maintain readability when reduced to approximate­ly a 3"x3" area and should allow a version that could be used as a thumbnail icon. You can consult the Institute web page at www.nd.edu/-kellogg for more information about the Institute and can request copies of our brochure and newsletter from Martha Sue Abbott (Abbott.2@nd.edu). 
The winning entry will receive a $250 prize. The contest is open to all students, faculty, and staff of the Notre Dame community. 
Entries should be submitted to Judy Bartlett at the Kellogg Institute, 216 Hesburgh Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556-5677. With your artwork, please include your name, campus address and telephone number, as well as your email address. The deadline for submissions is Monday, March 24, 2000. 
A Kellogg committee will review all entries. Upon selection of the winning entry) the artist will be notified and presented 
with the pr,ze. 


Senate considers student center 
. Committee surveys students, will recommend Lafortune renovations or new center 
By ERIN LaRUHA News Wriru 
Glancing around the main 11oor of thf' I.aFortune Student CP.nter. one might see studimts studying. eating or watching television, but one Student Sr~nate rommitti:rn is looking to r.lmngc that. 
The senate's Committee cm Social Spacn is rurrently sur­veying swdents before creating a plan to either rnmodel LaFortune or build a new stu­dent center. 
"We're trying to get ideas," said student body secretary Luciana Reali, who is chairing thf' social space committee. whir.h consists of' student sena­tors. Stud«rnt Union Board rep­rnsen tativ.es and hall prnsi­dents. 
Tlrn University rnquested the survey a!'ter looking at the results of a study it conducted. 
"The UnivRrsity does a self­study every 1 0 years prior to reaccredidation." said Joe Cassidy. director of student activities. "The last study was called the Colloquy for the Year 2000. One of the recommenda­tions [from that study) was the need for additional campus social space. The recommenda­tion was not specific on what it meant by social space or the specific social space needed " 
.i\s a result. the University requested that a committee be formed. Reali said. 
"It's the lirst time the admin­istration has consulted students about a building." she said. 
The committee's report will be based on an online survey, which anyone may takA through the Notre Dame Web site. The committee is also rnly­ing on surveys handed out ran­domly in LaFortune as well as information from club members and leaders about what kind of space could help them in plan­ning spe­
construction to begin any time soon. 
"As part or a broader look at social space needs on campus, the University is evaluating the Lafortune Student Center and how well it meets the needs of our students: There is no plan at the present time to build a new student center." said Cassidy. 
In fact. Cassidy and Heali said the Universitv is unsure as to when a new student center will be built. but Reali said she believes it will bR at least !'our to five years in the future. 
Nevertheless. manv students 
are interested in 
cial events. "We·re going to be  "It's the first time the administration has  a llf'.W student center, Reali said. A new stu­ 
going sole­ consulted students about  dent r,enter will  
ly on [stu­dents']  a building."  possibly offer a restaurant with  
opinions.  table  service,  
We  don't  Luciana Reali  dP.partment  
have  any  committee chair  storf'.S, a bowl­ 

plans yet," Reali said, encouraging students to fill out the survcv. 
Some rommittce members have even traveled to other uni­versities to look at social space at those schools. One aspect these members have been con­sidering is the amount of space per student at the school. 
"Compared with other schools. our student center is very small," Reali said. 
At the end of March. the com­mittee will submit its plan to the Student Senate and then onto Student Activities, she said. 
Notre Dame students. howev­er, should not be looking for ing alley and a 
bar or lounge. Reali said she would like to decrease the need for students to go off campus for entertain­ment. 
A fifth-year architecture stu­dent will draw the committee's design for the new building or the remodeled version of LaFortune. she said. 
"l certainly appreciate Student Senate taking the ini­tiative to survey student views on the different social spaces at Notre Dame. The feedback from this survey should prove useful in the\planning process, especially because it represents direct feedback from the stu­dents," Cassidy said. 
Notre 


Dame Film. Television and Theatre presents 
Actors fro111 tl1e Lo11clo11 Stage
All's Well That Ends Well 
by Wi I I i a m S h a k e s p. e a r e 
Sunday Matinee. February 20 .......... 2:30 pm Thursday. February 24 .................... 7:30 pm Wednesday. February 23 .................... 7:30 pm Friday February 25 ... .......... .. .. ..... 7.3U pm . Saturday. February 26 .......................... 7:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats S16 • Seniors S14 • All Students S12 Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
The re~dencv of Actors from 1he london Stage rs sponsored in part bv ;he Henkels lWLlre Serres 
~~ This act!·:,t :! maoa oa~1bia ·n ~3r: ~·.· :~~ CJ~rriumr: F~ur.~2:.:~ :· -:~int J~;~:~ :~:.:r;:, '.rt:!1..;r ::-~ fr:illjio~ -~~~ II A/!~ .:/\"'!*-Car.im:S3Jcn.: .:are 1g:nc·,,_ ~·.-1th i:.mi:s 1;:m :n~ lnc,~ra Jenml A!!a-::::•·. j1i:l '.i"! '.)~iS~! c~at.•,:--:~r.: •~r :~:~ -~·ts 111.,~V 
~ 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 18, 2000 


Election 
continued from page 1 
llanovPr and Micek will f1le their appeal. in writing, to Folks and Palumbo, the chair of Student Senate. The Senate will then hold an emergency meeting to con­sider the appeal. 
There is no time limit for Hanover and Micek to file. and l'eall• did not sav when they would. But. giv;~n that Junior Parents Weekend begins today. student gov­ernment leaders doubted the appeal would be imme­diate. 
"To be honest. I'd be sur­

prised if they file before 
Monday," Fo1ks said, ..but l 
don't k·now for sure." 
The actual results of the 

election were not released 
to anyone. including the 
candidates. Only Folks and 
Becky DemktJ. Judicial 
Council vice president for 
elections, kno1,v who won 
the vote. 
The Election Committee. comprised of one represen­tative from each dorm. did not learn the final tallv. but did vote on the violatio'ns, 
The Committee voted unanimuuslv that Fairchild '·s ·election day campaigning was a viola­tion. The charge stated that Hanover or Micek through 
prior conLar,L" with him, were n'sponsiblf~ for his actions. The Campaign 
bylaws state that "candi­
dates will be held responsi­ble !'or the behavior of their supporters and anyone in their campaign organiza­tion." The Committee voted 16-2 that each of the two charges concerning e-mails from Hanover c'.onstituted a viola­tion. They voted 17-0 that a 
clrnrgr1 of' posting <'ampaign material after tlw estab­lished deadline in Alumni 
Hall was not "of.merit" and was not a viol,ttion. 
Members of' the Election Committee confirmed that several students brought the e-mails tn their atten­tion today. The four who 
were  reached  by  The  
Observer  declined  com­ 
ment.  

This event capped an election which has seen a numbAr of ethical debates. The Election Committee suspended the ()'Donoghue/ Norton committee from one day of' campaigning !'or their appearance on \-VVFI Feb. 
5. Several tickets were not allowed to enter the race because they submitted petitions signed by the same student morn than once. 
O'Donoghue/Norton and Hanover/\1icek reached Thursday's run-·off by l'in­


\Velcome Junior Parents 
Reservations Required 
233... 1000 

Fresh Prepared Pasta, Seafood, Steaks and the 
Dial Phon< Apperir 674-0900 C,ltt'~ory 84{i(i for more infornu.tion 

Downtown South Bend's Finest Italian Dining 

ishing a commanding first and second in the primary election Monday. 0 'Donoghue/Norton received 43 pnrcnnt of' th<' vote Monday. llanover/ Micek gained 34 percent. In order to win, a ticket must get more than 50 percent. 
Notre Dame's campaign comes on the heels of' Saint Mary's controversial stu­dent body presidential elec­tion. Tlw College's Board of' Governance Election Committee gave CrissiP Henner and Michell!' Nagle the election victory on Feb. (i after the first run-of'J' ended in a tie and the sec­ond run-off was declared uneonslitu tional. 
"Elections this vear have taken an unpre~edentcd turn in Lcrms of' the dramat­ic," Demko said. And it's not over yet. 
Trustees 
continued from page l 
house]." Dennis said. "We still have that $400,000 problem." 
Neither Bussell nor the parents' council has b()gun contacting pos­sible donors, but are expecting to start next week. They are hoping to focus their efforts on a small core of ct11T0.nt parent's council members along with past mem­bers who have shown interest in the clubhouse. 
"I am extremely confident that. we can raisn the funds because the' people we are going to will recognize tlrn value of' this club­housn to the students," Hussell said. 
The first donation the council received was a $250,000 donation towards the renovation of' the cur­rent clubhouse. 
When it became clear that that would not be feasible, it was agreed that the money would be used for the new building. 
When discussion of renovation ceased, f'undraising by the par­ents' council stopped as well. 
This recent decision to try to raise funds for the new clubhouse is the first concerted pfl'ort to secure funds. 
"What we're looking to do now is pick [the original fundraising] up again and get those funds raised as quickly as possible." Hussell said. Russell explai1wd that many people associated with the College are interested to see the clubhouse functional soon. 
"The individuals that made the lead donation have expressed a concern that the building be con­structed soon," he said. "ThP goal is to have the building up and open by the time school starts." 
The plans will go to facilities committee and the finance com­mittee of the Board of Trustees on Friday. The committees will then report to the entire board on Saturday, with a vote following. 
This new clubhous<: is one part of the five year Master Plan the College hopes to implement. Master Plan funding has been unclear from its birth. The Board's decision this wPekend may indicate how serious the College is about the Master Plan and its accompanying cost. 

College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
Invites 
Nominations 
for 
the Father Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts .and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nominations for this :year's ~w3:r?,. Please send your letter indicating what is special or s1gn1frcant about this instructor to: 
Dian Murray, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Wednesday, March ist,, 2000 
Sheedy Award 

--~-------------------­
orld 



Friday, Februarv 18, 2000 COMPILED FHOM THE OBSERVER WIRE SEHVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Abuse alleged in Mexico health care system 
MEXICO CITY 
A U.S.-basPd rights group issued a r<-lport Thursday slamming Mexico's mental health care system. and describing situations in whir.h young patients '..V!'r<> somctim<iS ignored or abused. Thn ind1qrnndent Wasllington­basPd organization M<"ntal Disability Hights International said it t'ound "a nurnbr.r or sr.ri­otts human rights violations" against pC!ople with m<'ntal dis:tbilitiPs during th1·1!<" trips to Mexico. In il statcnH'llL rclcasl'U with the report. Dr. Hobert Okin. chiPI' of psychiatry at San Franc·isrn CPnPral I lospilal in Calif'ornia and ro-a.utlrnr of tlw rPporl. sui<l invosligators "urge the M('Xican ~ovt'rnnwnt to imnwdiati>ly end its abusos of' human rights of menta!Jy disablt'cl persons." Thti rr'porl also said lhal conditions had improvPd rt)CI\Jltly at some centers. 
Venezuela not worried by oil prices 
CAIUCAS 
VPtwzuela's forrign minislPr on Thursday said llw govPrnn11'nl is not worrind about pos­siblf, mows bv l'rt'sidt'nl Clinton to lown oil priers. Clintur{ -said this \\'('PK he is concernPd about soaring pricPs f'or oil -£\S!)t'cially for homr hl•ating oil -and did not rule out rrl1~asing oil t'rorn llw Strategic Petrolrum HPsrrvP to hr,Jp r<\dur!' prices. V1'1JPZL1Plan ForPign l\linistPr .JosP Vi1·r'nU' !\angel said Clinton's proposal \\'as not a soun·" of' l'Otl­cern l'or tlw oil-prnduring South Anwrican nation. wtwn' pPopl(' don't usP honH' hPating oil. "\Vp'n' in a grPPnhousi'. \Vp'rr nol hot or cold," llangl'I told rc~portPrs. Oil pri!'PS have soarr,d sine,, \'PtwzuPla and othPr Organization ol' 1'1•lro!Purn llxporling CountrHis rPdut·!'d their prnduction. cutting supply to Llw world market. 
Police battle students in Lebanon 
BEmUT 
Policr firnd tnar gas and sprayed a water can­non Thursday al about 2.000 students protest­ing oubidr, the U.S. limbassy against perceived American support f'or Israeli airstrikcs on Lebanon. :\t least two students were hurt bv police batons and rilk bulls. and three others fainted t'rom tlw Lear gas. witnrsses said. Studnnts bunwcl an lsntreli !lag. chanted "Drath to America" and ..lkalh to Israel." and trashed a drawing or what looked like the U.S. !'lag bearing skulls instpad of stars. The protestrrs. students from the American University of' Beirut and other universities, hurled rocks and toma­toes at the Lr•banese troops and policemen. 
l;ii,ii#IJil@W/41

Dow A!\1Ex: 
937.46 JONES +3 71, 
-46. 84 Ni1sd.t<r 45-48.92 

-121.27 
NYSE 
601.26 +3.71 
S&P 500: Composite
1388.25 
Volume: 
f0.59

10,514.50 
1,034.817.ooo 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CONPMX TXCU:B \ C'KAMG.2 s r&NGi PRIC8 nR'!'ICA.L COMPUT vcsr ;.4).55 +O. 5900 64.£40 OSLL C0M:Ptl'l'ICR P&:LL, +7.08 •a. ,soc u.101 MICROSOFT COfU' MSFT +2.04 +l. 99~0 40.172 W'-L-MAR'l' STORES wwr -1! .28 -t.. J'HJIJ 24. n, IHTIL CO,U, IN'l"C' 1-2.u +a.a us 24.JU All!R.ICA 0HLINi. AOL +2.4,1 +1. ,soo 2L'.lSl CY'MGli:N' CORP CYTO +20 .69 +L 3100 22 .!i0S NCI WORI,OCOM IN WC'Ol'I 1"2. 1• +1. H25 22,040 ORACLR CO:Rt «:lRCL •O.liiO +0 .1700 20.196 CISCO SYSTEMS csco 't.2.62 -t3.J;H!l 12 ,ti2B 
ROMANIA 

AFP Photo 
Romanian child Gruia Bartocea shows his deformed chest to reporters as his father protests against the lead pollution in the Fernezeu district of Baia Mare. Gruia's parents clain that their son's deformed chest is a result of the ongoing pollution by lead factory ROMPLUMB, which pollutes the area with lead dust emissions. 
Roinania acknowledges spill severity 
Associated Press BAIAMARE The European Union's lop environmental official demanded to know Thursday how tons of cyanide contaminated two major rivers, killing masses of plant and fish life in its path. The cyanide poured into streams from a contain­ment dam at tlrn gold mine in Baia Mare, passing through Hungary and Yugoslavia in the Szamos 
and Tisza rivers before returning to Romania on the Danube. 
EU Environment Commissioner Margot Wallstroem called the spill a "major environmental accident. and to the people living by the rivers, this is a catastrophe." 
Speaking in Szolnok, Hungary, where she inspected the Tisza, Wallstroem said she want­ed answers as to "what happened, how bad is the damage, and what can be done to rehabilitate the environment." 
Wallstroem also called for a task force to be set up to assess and control the dam­age and prevent future accidents. 
Romania is a formal can­didate for membership in the 15-nation EU and Wallstroem's visit was a sign that the EU will help in times of crisis if Romania continues to reform its economy. 
However, Romanian Environment Minister 
Romica Tomescu said Thursday that the disaster came at a particularly bad time because Romania had just opened official negotia­tions with the EU last week. "We must show we are worthy of the trust invested in us" by the EU, he said. 
Also Thursday. Tomescu acknowledged for the first time the magnitude of the pollution. · 
"Romania did not ever want to hide or play down the magnitude of the acci­dent," Tomescu said. 
Summit aims to promote Africa in U.S. 
Associated Pre,s 
WASHINGTON 
African drums sounded through Washington's con­vention renter and Kente cloth decorated the walls Thursday as thousands of advocates for the continent gathered to debate what President Clinton ca!IC'd "its triumphs and trials." 
"Africa does matter to the United States," Clinton said to the applause of some 
2.000 businessmen. acade­mics, local and African gov­ernmcmt ollicials and others at the National Summit on Africa. 
Under tfrn motto "Afrir.a 
matters:· summit organiz­ers have been working since 1966 to unify and strengthen the lobby for Africa in America and improve Afrir,a's image in the states. They have been drafting. and are expected to approve Sunday, a new policy they wou Id like tho 
U.S. government to imple­ment toward the continent they say has long been underestimated and ignored. 
It's a contention Clinton agrees with. 
KFor too long, the African people have lacked for friends and allies." Clinton said. 
He said globalization, among other things, demands more attention to the 54 nations. 
Some of the countries' economies are growing and some are making advances towards democracy. Meanwhile, others mired in strife, and the majority of' the continent's 700 million people are trapped in poverty. 
"It is no longer an option for us not to know about the triumphs and trials of the people with whom we share this planet," said Clinton. 
"We can be indifferent. or we can make a difference," he said, adding that the United States has worked on peacekeeping, conflict resolution, education and economic revitalization since his historic 1998 visit to Africa. 
Rut, he said, progress on the poor and war-wracked continent depends "funda­mentally and first" on whether African leaders put the best interests of their people ahead of political concerns. 
"No one in our govern­ment is under any illusions. There is still a lot of work to be done," Clinton said. "These things cannot be imported, and they cannot be imposed from outside." 

,-------­
page 6 TWObserver . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 18, .2000 
U.S. Navy and with McKinscy
Spedal to The Observer 
and Company before joining Venrock in 1970. He is on the 
Ted McCourtney, managing board •of directors of four pub­
general partner of Venrock lic companies and is a past
Associates, and Shirley Welsh 
president and chair of the 
Ryan, a national leader on dis­Nati.onal Venture Capitalability issues. have been elect­Association. 
ed to the Board of Trustees of A Chicago resident, Ryan is the University. 
one of the country's leading
A 1960 graduate of Notre advocates for children with 
Dame with a bachelor's degree 
disabilities arid has been 
in mechanical engineering, 
appointed by two U.S. presi­Mccourtney previously served 
dents to the National Council 
on the University's Advisory 
on Disability. She is <'ofounder 
Council for Urn College of 
Graduate  School  Lifetime  
Learners  Course  and  the  
Chicago  Foundation  on  
Education.  

and chair of the Pathways
Engineering. Be earned a mas­Awareness Foundation. which ter·s of business administration promotes early detection and 
degree from the Harvard 
inclusion for infants and chil­Business School in 1966. dren with physical differences 
As the managing general 
or disabilities, and is cofounder partner of Venrock Associates, 
and president of Pathways
McCourtncy manages venture Center, an outpatient pediatric
capital investments for the 
therapy clinic where hundreds Rockefeller family and other 
of Chicago-area chi.ldren 
limited partners. With offices in re~eive weekly physical, occu­
New York City, Boston and 
pational and speech therapy.Menlo Park. Calif., the firm Ryan's many civic contribu­identifies and suµports emerg­
tions include service lo the 
ing companies in the informa­Chicago Council on foreigntion technology and health care Holations, the Lyric Opera, thr. and life sciences sectors, Art Institute of Chicago, and 
Mccourtney. who now 
tho Chit:ago Community Trust. 
resides in Katonah. N.Y .. She has been the director of 
sP-rved as a linutr.nanl in the 
Like to write? Write for us. Call 1-5323 

Law scholarship will honor Nevada justice 
Special to The Observer 
A gift from University of Notre Dame graduate Jerry Mowbray of Reno, Nev., has established a new fellowship at the Notre Dame Law School in the name of his parents, the late Justice John Mowbray and Kathlyn Hammes Mowbray of Las Vegas. 

''He lost his eyesight, but founding the
The John and Kathlyn he never lost his insight. public 
defender sys­Mowbray Law 

He had impeccable 
tem in
Dean's 

judgement, and he could Nevada. He
Scholars Fellowship is pierce through the also played a 
prominent
the first of 10 

double-talk and get to 
role early innew full­

the heart ofhis case." his career in
tuition follow­
pushing for
ships planned 
the state's
to assist law 

Judge Brent Adams first child 
srhoo.l stu­

Washoe Cty. (Nev.) District Court abuse laws.
dents at Not.re 
Dame. 
Justice Mowbray was a 1949 graduate of the ·l'\otre Dame I.aw School who sPrved for 25 years on the Nevada Supreme Court and eight years as a Clark Countv (Nev l District Court Judge. ·Kathlyn Hammes Mowbray is the daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Horny Hammes, whose 1955 gift underwrote the Cniversity's bookstore. 
Jerry \Jowbray graduated from Notre Dame \Vith a bach­elor's degree in government in 1975 and earned a law degree three years later. He is an attorney in Reno. 
"The Mowbray family has a long and distinguished history at Notre Dame that dates back Lo the 1860s," said University president Father Edward Malloy. "We are grateful to Jerry Mowbray for creating a fellowship that both honors the past by paying tribute to his parents and supports the future by addressing the ongo­ing scholarship needs of our students." 
After serving in the L'.S. Army Air Corps during World War II. Justice Mowbray attended the :-Jotre Dame Law School from 1946-49. during which time he met and mar­ried Kathlyn. Upon his gradu­ation, the couple moved to Las Vegas. whern he served for 
27001!.tll~ 
800-654-621.,
www.cl1yfo or www.di 

four years in the Clark County district attorney's office. He was a private practitioner from 1953-55, then served as a bankruptcy referee for the next four years. 
Justice Mowbray was appointed in 1959 by then­Gov. Grant Sawyer to the Clark County District Court, where he is credited with 
Then-Gov. 

Paul Laxalt, a Republican, surprised his party in 1967 by appoiuting Justfoe Mowbray, a Democrat, to the state's Supreme Court. The justice won four elections during the next 25 years and served as chief justice during three of his terms on the bench. Suffering from glauco­ma, Justice Mowbray retirnd in 1992. He once wrote in a ruling that to be a judge "one needs compassion, humility, grace and, at times, mercy and tlw ability to forgive. In short, the judicial craft. as well as the law itself. demands a heart." 
At the time of' Justice Mowbray·s death in 1,997, a colleague, Washoe County District Court Judge Brent Adams. said. "lie was a shin­ing star of integrity in the Nevada legal system for over 30 years. He lost his eyesight, but he never lost his insight. He had impeccable judgment, and he could pierce through the lawyer double-talk and get to the heart of' his case." 
Former Nevada Gov. Bob Miller said in tribute: "If you drew a mental image of what a judge should look like, you'd see John Mowbray. He was a role-model figure. He just had an aura and a sense of pro­prif~ty ... " 
. P,1~0$ &la.rHn<1 ~t 
589.•.....··· .. i£om 
· · pe~ nfghl 
\)!l·l•4jle()f)lq Valid Sil::! 
sort.com 
k.com 
University names two as Trustees 
the Lincoln Park Zoological Society sinc11 1971, is a general trustee of the Lincoln Academy of Ulinois. and is a director of the American Ireland Fund, Old St. Pa.trick Church, WTTW public television, the 21st Century Urban Schools, and the Inner City Teaching Corps. She is the founder and direct-Or of the Northwestern University · 
A graduate of Northwestern University, Hyan also has stud­ied at the University of Paris, Sorbonne, and the Ecole du Louvre. She received the Distinguished Service Award from Northwestern in 1986 and the 1999 Kid's Count Award from the Voices of' Illinois Children. 
Notre Dame's Board ol' Trustees. established in 1967, currently is chaired by Androw McKenna, chairman and chitif executive officer of' Schwarz of' Morton Grove. HI. The elections of Mccourtney and Ryan raise the board's membership to 57. 
Univ. Laun ry annmg ·at the Campus Shoppes 1813 South Bend Ave. 
Monda Dollar Day Tanning Tuesda Senior Day Free Drying For Senior Citizens Wednesda 
Free Hot Dogs Thursda Students Free drying w/College ID 
.45¢ Drop OffAll Month Till Feh. 29th 
NEED CASH? 

NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FOR A $5.00 BONUS 
Up to $1 45.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 
SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAYWEST 


Friday, February 18, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NBWS page 7 
Forum addre~es social space, faculty-student interaction 
By BRIGID SWEENEY News Wri,~, 
Fo1:using 011 conflicts that arisP, br,lwfrnn af'adr,mic and residential lif'e at Notre Dame and possible sDlutions. far,ulty members and a lone student met Thursday night at the sec­ond open forum sponsornd by the ad ho('. committrr, on Academic and Student Life. 
Sophornori' Tim Dysa.rt. an engimwring major. mentioned the strugg-lcs lw has c~nroun­tered aw~mpLing to rnconcile acadnmics and sol'ial lifo. 
"The workload is so dP,tnand­ing that it's diflindt to form social rnlutionships." he said. "My roommatP is a math major. and if we talk half' an hour a dav. that's a l()t. It's diflkull to form bonds that morP tinH' would J'ostnr " 
Social span· in Cushing and Fitzpatrick offr'r a possib!P solu­
tion, but according Lo Dysart, f\~w studflnts utilize Uw soda! space currently available in Cushing. 
"A few kids are there. usually trying to nap between classes or finish homework. but there's not a lol of interaction," he said. 
At the sug­gestion of 
of an immedi­ate improve­ment. because students already have ingrained study habits and probably would not use new f'ac:ilities. In Lhe future. howev­(~r. he said he could see more students taking ,Ldvantage of additional social spacP. 
[JtJU or a friend have problem 
odd and weight, there is help av Choose from among th options available .at 
~v~rsity He.r;lth 
Social space proved LO be a main issue of the forum, as par­ticipants noted varying experi­enr:es. 
Psychology professor Naomi Meara pointed to lack of space in Haggar as a problem. 
"The lounge is so small that it 

increased 
"The workload is so 

sor,ial spar.<~ 
demanding that it's

for sr,ic nr,c and engincer­difficult to form social ing students, 
relationships."

Dvsart cl ,(i1rn~d that 
Tim Dysart 

it would not providf' much sophomore 
Associate 
makes stu­dent gather­ings difficult," she said. "I think if we had space, we'd have a lot of stu­dents, both graduate and undergradu­ate, min­
gling." 
provost Carol 
Mooney, serving as chairperson of the committee, commented on the situation in the law school. 
"l\ly experience as a law school professor has been quitP, different lfrom the engineering 
' circumstances] with regards to social space," she said. "There's a very nice snack bar in the basement. and lunch is in a big open room with faculty and stu­dents alike. I sit down to eat and people inevitably join me, often students." This case was the exception rather than the rule, as many faculty present mentioned lack of student-professor interaction outside of class and office hours. A scarcity of casual space where faculty and students can meet outside of the academic setting form the basis of the problem. "It seems like such a simple problem," said John Cavadini. theology department chairman. "Every school seems to manage to have informal space where students and faculty can mix. But it really is an issue." Students and faculty operate in different spheres, and the 
two groups rarely meet socially, 
"Students are reluctant to ask faculty to come eat in the dining hall with them," said Sister Mary Louise Gude, assistant vice president of Student Affairs. "Professors will enter­tain students at their home, but students won't take them to the dining hall." 
According to Gude, facult~ tends to cat at placrs such as Greenfield's, where students rarely go, although Flex points are accepted. 
Mooney brought up the idea of offering reduced prices for faculty families in the dining halls as a Way of both fostering unity and providing practical help to busy professors. 
"As a mother of four and a 
professor, I remember not wanting to come up with meals e v e r y night," she said. "A fac­ulty membrr in the dining hall alone is not that attractive Lto stu­dents]. but a 
"/ think ifwe had space, we'd have a lot of students, both graduate and undergraduate, mingling. " 
Naomi Meara psychology professor 
selves. A big part of life is how you deal with adversity, and a lot of people here haven't experi­enced that." 
Additionally. the issue of social life in terms of dorm life and univer­sity-sponsored events received 
faculty member with little kids would be very appealing." 
Michael Palumbo, student body vice president, mentioned the possibility of bringing pro­fessors into dorms to deliver presentations, along with prospect of faculty members liv­ing in dorms. 
Dysart responded positively to the latter suggestion. claiming that such a living arrangement would encourage student-facul­ty relationships. 
"I think there'd be more inter­action if there was someone I could talk to on a daily basis who had interesting perspec­tives or common interests," he said. 
In addition to improving stu­dent-professor relationships, the discussion addressed the issue raised at the first forum that the university exerts too much control over students. 
As a student, Dysart said that because Notre Dame makes the transition to college a gentle one with the highly structured First Year of Studies, students lose out on learning experi­ences. 
"In a way, we don't have the opportunity that our peers at other schools, especially big state schools, have," he said. "Sometimes they start out first semester way over their heads, but they eventually figure things out. Here, students don't have a chance to fail and find them-
attention. 
Dysart, a Morissey resident, mentioned both the positives and negatives of living in a large dorm. 
"The possibility of getting to know so many people is the best part, but on the other hand, I live on the fourth floor, where no one goes without a reason," he said. "You don't really get to know everyone." 
Furthermore, he commented that free time and fun activities are hard to come by Monday through Thursday. 
"I could work 24 hours a day and still not finish all my work," Dysart said. "I guess I just wish it was a little more balanced." 

~ 
1tallan/sicilian ..,~ ' -Trattoria Dining c:"' ~ ~
;( j 
~SS. Michigan St. Fresh prepared ~ers, ;&uth Bend, IN 46601 Pizza, Beverages 219-233-1000 
Downtown South Bend'II Finest Italian Dining 

6 GUARD against the cold with gas/heat paid 
.Achieve your GOALS with our spacious 1, 2, & 3 bedroom floorplans 
• FOLLOW THROUGH & bring your pets with you (pets welcome up to 80 lbs.) 
6 Don't PASS up on our February move-in special 
Move FORWARD Call or stop in today: 256-0237 
Williamsburg 011 the lake 302 Village Drive. Mishawaka, IN 46545 
@ 
EllllAl,_
OPPORTIJNITY
TDD J-800-326-9193 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February I8, 2000 
Right data recovered frolll crash 

FBI arrests Cuban spy 
Associared Press 
\1L\Ml 
A U.S. immigration official with "secret" security dear­anee was arrested Thursday and rharged with spying for ihe Cuban government, the Fm said. 
Mariano Faget. 54, was being held at the Federal Detention Center in :vtiami and \\as to appear in court Friday, the FBI said in a staternPnL 
Faget, a native of'llavana, is employed at the Immigration a n d 

In October 1998, 14 people were charged in Florida in what autl1orit.ies called the largest Cuban espionage ring uncovered in the United States in dncades. Authorities said the group tried to pene­trate U.S. military bases, inlll­trate a11ti-Castro oxiln groups and manipulate t:.S. media and political organizations. 
Fill spokesman Terr-y I\Jelson told The Orlando Sentinel that Faget's arrest wa.s unrelaLed to Lhi.s spy ring. The United States severnd diplomatic relations with Cuba in 
January

Naturalization "Faget has access to 
1961,two
Service as a 

classified and sensitive 
years after
supervisory 

district adjudi­INS.filr>s relating to F i d e I Castro's
cation officer. confidential law 
rise toHe held a 

enforcement." 
po,ver, and initi­
"s(:crct" sec u­

ritv clearance an·d was FBI spokesperson ated a 
responsible fur supervising decisions that affected immi­gran Ls and people seeking politirnl asylum. ttw FRl said. 
"Faget has access to classi­fied and sensiLive INS files relating to confidential law enforcement sourres and Cuban defectors." the FBI said. 
The agency said he had made unauthorized contacts with Cuban intelligence offi­cers in rvtiami and in other 
U.S. cities. A spokesman for the Cuban Interests Section, whic:h represents the nation in Washington, derlined com­ment. The WhitP House also had no comment, spokesman Mike Hammer said. 
The FBI said it wouldn't release any further details on the case until a news confer­ence set for Friday morning. Russ Bergeron, director of media relations at INS head­quarters in Washington, said he rould not comment on Faget's arrest. He said it is INS policy to cooperate with such investigations. 
Jose Basulto, president of the Cuban exile group Brothers to the Rescue, said he believed there were many Cuban spies working in the United States. "The U.S. should be verv embarrassed by this find(ng." he said. "Until the cancer is removed. which is Castro, this will con­tinue." 

t r a d e embargo in 1962. 
Trav(d to and from the countrv is restricted bv the u.S, government, but athletic, cultural and academic exchanges have been allowed. 
ll(>lations between the United States and Cuba recenily have been strained by the case of Elian Gonzalez. ThP INS has said the 6-vear­old boy should be return.ed to his fatlrnr in Cuba while his relatives in Miami have been lighting to keep the boy in the United States. 
Elian survived a rrossing from Cuba last '.Jovember but his mother drowned when their boat capsized. 

.Daytona,Beach Resort 
mmmm1cmu 

.~:~~:=:'!~.,s89~g 800-654-62i6 
Vblt ti at www.cla7lo11bnarcsort.co¦ or -www.dlac0Htbrc1lcoa 
Associated Press 
HANCIIO CORDOVA. Calif. 
Flight data and cockpit voice recorders were retrieved Thursday from the wreckage ol' a DC-8 cargo plane that crashed into a .salvage yard. killing its thrcr rn'w members. 
Invcstigators hope the rerordcrs will provide more clues about the pilot's report of a "center of gravity" problem shorlly artor the plane's takeoff from Matlwr Firld in suburban SarramenLo. 
The recorders, which were damaged by !'ire but in fairly good shape, were sent to Washington for analysis, said (;eorgP Black of the Natio11al Trnnsportat.ion Safoty Board. 
Emery Worldwide Flight 17 plunged into tlw Insurance Auto Auctions yard just before R p.m. Wednesday, killing its three crew members and setting dozens o[ cars ablaze. ThP plane was bound for Dayton, Ohio. 
The victims' bodies were rrcoverrd Thursday afternoon, Black said. 
The center of' gravity prob­lem could have several causos, including a shilling load, inmr­rcc:t cargo woight and meclrnn­ical problems, s•aid Preston Hicks, also of the NTSB. 
Black said tlrn f1ighl rncorder data could indicate weight and balance problems l"rom thn per­formancr: ol' the plane. I Iowevr.r. the report of an unsettled load is not the sole focus of the investi­gation, Black said. 
"Everything is a focus," he said. "We never begin with a prejudged pusition." 
Thr! plane. carrying a load of transmission fluid, clothing and a small packet or detonators. was at 
miles away. "There was no rhanr.e of rcs­rue," Ilavertv said. 
The victims wen~ identified as Capt. Kevin Stables, 43, of Brrlin, N.Y., who had been with Emery for live years: First Officer George Land. 35, of 
Placerville, 
Calif.. when iL years; and tried to Second return to Dan Haverty Officer 
Mather captain, Russell for an llicks, 38, 
soo feet ''There was no chance ofrescue." 
American River Fire Department 
em er ­gency landing and crashed in a fireball about a mile east of the lield. 
Tens of thousands of small piecPs from the~ plane are scat­tered among the burned-out r,ars over five to six acres, Black said. 
"About the only thing you can recognize as part of an airplane is one section of fu.selage, about 6 to 7 feet high. maybe 15 feet long. with several windows," Black said. 
One wi.tness said the plane hit the ground belly first and was immediately engulfed in flames. 
Those aboard were dead by the time fire crews arrived at the site. said Capt. Dan Haverty of the American Hiver Fire Department. Firefighters were hampered by intense flames, which burned for several hours after the crash. Smoke was vis­ible in the moonlit night soveral 
Sparks, Nev.,11/2 years. 
Company spokesman James Allen said the crash was the first fatal accident in th!) com­pany's :iO-yea.r history. Nobody on the ground was injurPd. 
The crash set as many as 200 cars on fire, many with gas in their tanks, causing several explosions. 
Motorist Scott Colyn saw the plane as it approached the sal­vage yard "at eye level." 
"It looked like it was skipped like a stone," said Colyn, who saw the crash while he was dri­ving home. "I looked in mv rPar view mirror and there·were flames everywhere. sparks and a big old mushroom cloud." 
Tlie plane, carrying 62,000 pounds, was a DC-8 71, a four­engine plane manufactured by McDonnell Douglas. Allen said. It has a capacity of 90,000 pounds, he said. 

University of Michigan Business School May 21-June 9, 2000 

If you have pursued a strong international studies focus as an undergraduate, spend three weeks this summer studying global business management at one of the world's leading business schools. 
This program is specifically designed for liberal arts students (including graduating seniors) who have no previous knowledge of business. You will study with the same faculty who teach international business in our top-ranked undergraduate, MBA, and executive education programs. The entire program takes place in Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
For more information, including a detailed 
program description and application 
materials, consult our web site at 
www.umich.edu/~global or call us al 
734-936-3917. 
Global Summer Business Institute 



~---------~---------------------------------------------------, 
Fndav, February 18, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Bishops ask Bush to halt executions 
Associated Pre_1,s 
AUSTIN. TPxas 

The Catholic bishops ot'Texas havP askl,d Gov. George W. Bush to suspend lhP death penalty am! review capital pun­ishment in th(' stat.<'. w h i C h leads the nation in ext>cutions. 
.. It is nssential that if' the 
is going lo imposP thP ultimatP punishnwnt that then• br• no margin of error." th<) bishops said in a letter to Bush madn public Thursday. 
Bush. a death pt•na!Ly sup­portPr who has prPsidPd ovrr 11 <J nxPcutions since taking ortic:i, in Januan l'J'J5. has nu plans to halt nxnr·utions, spokeswoman Linda Edwards said Thurscluv. · Two T11x:ts convids an• s1:hcdukd to dit' bv INhal injPc­tion next wePk. in~·Iuding B.rlty Lou BrnL'i. who was convicted of killing her fifth husband in I 9 8 3. Sh n was indictect, but 1wv<,r triPd. on a charge or killing her fourth husband. 
Edwards said Bush "is sworn to uphold the laws ol' Texas. inr.luding thP dPath penalty. and lw bC'liPvcs we haw a fair prorpss in Texas with many clwrks -inducting a thorough and Pxhaustive riwie,., by the courts -to prevent an inno­cent prrson from bring put to death." 


Texas has conducted 206 P.XP.,.utions under four govor­nors since capital punishment wsumed in the 1980s. 
Thursdav's letter. written on be halt' of i11I the f.atholic bish­ops and signed by Bichard Daly. executive dirnctor of the Tt!xas Catholic Conference. said seven of' the 85 individuals released from U.S. death rows were in Trxas. 
The bishops urged Bush and Llrn state Board of Pardons and Paroles lo suspend f'uture <'Xe­cu1ions on a r.ase-by-case basis and Mconducl a thorough examination of' lite system by which condemned persons in Texas arc executed." 
The bishops also said they would join other death penalty opponents in trying to convince Lhc· Legislature next year to imposP a moratorium on PXe­cutions while u review is con­ducLPd. 
Tim death penalty issue has rcc1iived renewed attention since Illinois Gov. George Ryan -a Bush supporter -halted executions this month due to the exoneration of 13 death row inmates in his state over two decades. 
Bush ddended the Texas death penally system Tuesday when asked about the issue during a Hepublirnn prr,siden­tial dcbat1\ in South Carolina, wlwre hr, has bncn campaign­ing. 
Florida bans affirmative action 
. Public universities cannot use race and gender in admissions decsions 
Associated Press 
OHLJ\NDO, Fla. 
The State University System's Board of l{egcnts on Thursday approved rules eliminating race and gender as considera­tions for college admissions at Florida's 10 public universi­ties. 
The 14­111 () m be r panel voted 12-0 in favor of Gov. Jeb Bush's One Florida plan. which ends racial and gender preferences in admis­sions to state universities and in granting state contracts. Two members were not pre­sent for the vote. 
Bush contends the plan will enhance diversity by increasing outreaf'.h efforts and by admit­ting the top 20 percent of each high school senior class into state universities. 
Hundreds of college students, elected offidals and others came from around the state to the Regents' meeting at the University of Central Florida. Most said the One Florida plan would result in fewer minori­ties attending state universi­ties. 
"This plan looks very good on paper," said Telisha Terry, 21. a UCF stucknt. "But if you real­Iv think about it. the top 20 percent of students go to col­lege anyway." 

U.S. Rep. Corrine Brown said the governor and state officials could not be trusted to oversee a system admitting enough minority students. 
"We do not live in a color­blind sodety. Racr is still a fac­tor," said Brown, a Democrat from Jacksonville. 'Tm very disappointed with what's going on in rJorida, and it's an exam­ple of the ugly side or politics." 
In addition, the regents approved a system to admit students who do nut meet mini­mum admission criteria by using a "student profile assess­ment'', which considers factors like socioeconomic status, whether a student's parents went to college, and whether a high school is low performing. 
The board also approved a change to the rules eliminating the use of race, n;J,tional origin and gender as consid­Hitler'." Williams shouted. "He is nothing but a dictator, and I guarantee we as a people in America will not stand for a dictator in r!orida." 
That raised the ire of Regent Steven Uhlfelder. 
"For you to compare this gov­ernor to Hitler it totally irre­sponsible, and I'm not going to sit here and listen to that," Uhlfolder rnplied. ,... 
A few people spoke in favor of the rule changes. 
"We should not cling to poli­cies that are not based on merit," said Dennis Freytes, a trustee of Orlando's Valencia Community College. "I hope you don't let demagoguery and group politics affect your vote." 
And Lew Oliver. chairman of the Orange County Republican Partv, said there were more prac"tical considerations for approving the changes -a proposed ballot measure by California businessman Ward Connerly to do away with all preference programs in Florida, going much further 
eration  as  "We do not live in a color  than  Bush's  
admissions decisions. The rule  blind society. Race is still a factor."  plan. "Sometimes you don't have  
changes  a  choice,"  
must still go before the gover­ Corrine Brown U.S. Representative  Oliver said of Bush's pro­p o s a I .  
nor  and  "Sometimes  
indepen­ you don't have  

dently elected Cabinet, which is a perfect option." to consider the matter Florida is not the first state to Tuesdav. take on affirmative action pro­
Thur.sday's session grew grams. The University of heated with the comments of California system did away Frank Williams. a Tampa min­with affirmative action begin­ister. ning with the undergraduate 
"You say Bush, I say 'Heil class that entered in 1998. 

William O' Rourke 
book signing: Campaign America '96 View from the Couch 
Published by Notre Dame Press 
~atutday, ~ebtuaty 19 • 2:00 
Authot William 01Routke will !!~eak &gign co~ieg of 
f11mp1Jign Ame1ie11 '98 fhB View !tom the Coueh, gecond edition with a new updated epHogue 11 !,om Monir:!J to Mifogevie'~ 199<?-1999. ~atutday at BORD[R~ Willi~m 01Routke is Ptofessot of tnglish at the Uni'Jetsity of ~otte Dame and authot of fout notels. 
P. J. O'Routke might be the toyaH~t 01Routke but William is the ~opuli!!t 01Routk~ and he i!! eagiJy 
twice ag ~etceptive and funny. Anyone intete!!ted in camp~ign 2000 will need to tead thi~ book. 
MISHAWAKA INDIANA•  4230 GRAPE  RD.•  ON THE  
NORTHEAST CORNER OF GRAPE  AND  DAY  
(219)  271~9930  


F I N D O U T, 
BORDERS 
COOKS ·MUS 11'.:-CA F':': 
.. 



-VIEWPOINT 
page I 0 oRs~RVER Friday, February 18, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
r.o. Box Q. l\otre Dam,. IN 46550 0!4 Sourh Dining Hall. Notre name. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINFSS MANAGER  
:\1. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AsST. MANACING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

Nrws EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDrTOR: Colleen Gaughen Sro1ns EDITOR: ilrian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: 1-licliad V.111ege1s SAINT MARY's EVITOR: Noreen Gillespie 
PHOTO EDTTOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lucz 
AD D£.Slc;r-; M.t.,~AGER: l:\rct H ueiac 

SVSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushco 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.............631-747 I FAX .... ..... ..... ..... .... .... . ...... 631-6927 AoVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 ol>server@Jarwin.cc.nd.eJu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................63 1-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME .................... 631-454 I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.........................................................631·5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 obse1ver.viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS. ..............................631 •4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu 
ScE:s:E......................................................631-4540 obseiver.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.. ..........................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........ ...................................... 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WES ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visi, our Web site at http://observer.11d.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, feacures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from che'Associaced Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for 
weather for up-rn-rhe 
weekly student reviews
minuce forecasts 

online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and races of prim ads 
cial cam pus coverage 
archives w search for 
about The Observer 

ro meet rhe editors and 
articles published afrer 
sraff
Augusc 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is che independent. daily newspaper published in prim and orrline by the scuderns of ,he University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comem, including advercisemems, is nor governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither insrim,ion. The ObseNer reserves the righr to refuse advertisements based on cornenr. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objec,ively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent che opinion of rhe majority of,he Edirnr in ChieC Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Ediror and department editors. Commemaries. leners and columns present ,he views of che authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ta all readers. The free expression of.ill opinion~ through lecrers is encouraged Lmers to rhe Edimr must be signed and must include conlact information. 
Q,mrions regardi11g Oh,err,er policies J,ould be direct· ed to Editor i,1 ChiefMichelle Krupa. 
kev 
Self-Help Gurus? Help Yourself 
"Starting today, you can have the life you've always desired. You can have closer relationships. Greater success in business. More Money. Real happiness and fulfillment. True passion in your lifo." Its all in Personal Power II by Anthony Hobbins. "l\fajor credit cards accepted." 
In high school, I survived my first ill-advised brush with the world of the self-help guru. Inspired by career dav, the earnest but otherwise inac­tive counseling center cancelled the annual visits by area businessmen and women and replaced their advice and counsel with an early morning assembly featuring the most unscrupu­lous of entrepreneurs: the inspirational speaker. 
Overjoyed at the cancellation of lirst period calculus, the bane of my Bxis­tence, I liled into the gym along with mv fellow blazer-bedecked, loafor­shoed classmates. He arrived with a fervor evidently induced by HJ to 12 cups of coffee. Jumping to the cent1~r of the stage, he spouted definitive, specific rules to obtain unlimited success in all arnas. "Aim for the sky. Don't stop if you !'all. Be confident. Listen to your mother. Eat green beans, I mean lima beans. They are good for you." 
He covered all areas of' life: weight loss, health, religion, family, business. The list goes on. 
He continued unabated for over an hour and a half, increasing the speed and volume of each of his phrases with each passing moment. "Heach for the stars." I starnd dumbfounded and unconscious. My mouth sagged. I start­ed to drool. He rambled undaunted by the lack of interest exhibited by rny schoolmates, unenthusiastic and yawn­ing, frequently and loudly. I wondered where this man came from, who inspired him to become successful by inspiring other people to become suc­cessful and, most importantly. I won­dered who was listening. 

Apparently, the majority of America. Anthony Hobbins, arguably tlrn most famous and notorious of self-help gurus, has tutored the likes of President Clinton, Madonna, Andre Agassi and Nelson Mandela. He has also allied with Lou Holtz to provide stadium-sized seminars on success. Granted, the first three personalities possess arguably questionable judg­ment. Mandela and Holtz, however, command my undying respect. 
Inspired by my admiration for Mandela and Holtz, overwhelming guilt surrounding my possibly prematurn dismissal of "inspirational speaker," and the nagging thoughts that if I had listened I might have earned a "A" in calculus, I decided to investigate the world of the self-help-inspirational­motivational-weight-loss guru via the Internet. (The Internet, of course, stakes claim to the most exciting and inspirational of founders: Al Gore.) 
The wonders of Yahoo directml me first to the afore-quoted advertisement for Anthony Hobbins' "Personal Power II" on to "King's Gifts: Home of' Your Favorite As Seen On TV Products." 
1stood amazed at the claims. Mr. Hobbins, who first gained notoriety during the lire-walking craze of the '80s, apparently has insightful knowl­edgfl on an endless list of topics. He claims to facilitate physical, mental, emotional and financial success through advice provided by numerous books, tapes and lectures. Ile has com­piled an impressive list of titles: "Awaken the Giant Within," "Unlimited Power," "Unlimited Power: The Videotape" and "Giant Sti,ps." Only one question arose in my mind: What hap­pened to Personal Power J'? 
I wandernd from the world of Anthony Robbins to the web site for Deepak Chopra's Center for Well-Being. His work varied noticeably from the "driving force" of Anthony Robbins, but, similar to Robbins, Chopra promis­es the keys to "healthier, happier and more fullilled lives" and "optimal men­tal, physical and emotional health." At his center, he offers two-day seminars on such topics as "The Gift of Love" and "Optional Primordial Sound Meditation" for the small fee of $495.00. (Lunch breaks, but not lunches, included.) 
I left his site extremely disappointed. I have lived my life in anticipation of the opportunity to learn about optional primordial sound meditation, but my limited college-student funds prevented me from taking the chance. 
My disappointment led to an inevitable conclusion on the state of the self-help-inspirational-motivational­success guru. They can only have suc­cessful followers. Their followers, who possess the means to spend $495 for a seminar or upwards of $100 for a Robbins one-day event, have alrnady helped themselves. More despicably, the success of the self-help guru depends on the failure of his product. Anthony Robbins could never have written and certainly not sold Personal Power 11, if' Personal Power I provided the ideal life it promised. 
And so, my electronic journey ended with my reconciliation with my "B" in calculus and the knowledge that in the future, I'll take the free and unsolicited advice that I receive from my parents, friends and professors everyday. But then, I have stumbled across this incredibly useful piece of knowledge. The world needs to know. A lecture tour, perhaps? On succeeding without the advice of the self-help guru? 
Joanna Mikulski is a freshman in McGlinn Hall. Her column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the aulhor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
r::=====~~==~====::::-, l ,---;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::_---. ~ 
r--::::::::::::::::=:::::::-:::::-------, 

HE'$ ON THE PHONE. { DON'T LEAVE. a YOU'LL HAVE TO O DON'T MAKE ® STAND HERE AND ! NOISE. DON'T l 
LJAIT. 
TRY TALKING
i 1 
: i;I 
~ TO ME. ~ E 
" 0
:::, (,) 
g 1:: 
~ ~ 
i...;:::.-i..-lL---.£...~~~;::_..,:;_,J ~ _____._______...,....;;.r..,.__---'i _.._.....___________-i., 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"As long as you keep a person down, some part of you has to be down there to hold him down, so it means you cannot soar as you otherwise might." 
Marian Anderson American contralto 

VIEWPOINT 
friday, February 18, 2000 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Animals are not sacred 
This is a response to a particular reason that Aaron Kreider gave for his choke to be a wgan. Ho held that animals should not bn eate11 by men because it causes the auimals to "lead lives uf pain "We must begin. thPrefore. by looking at thf' idM of animal suffering. 
We as humans cannot form anv accurate notion of what animal suffering is. We can be cPrtain though. that the degree of their suffering is much different from our own. Cardinal Newman accu­rawly statns, "Brutes foe! far less that man, because they i.;annot nd1Pct 011 wltat tlrny !'nt•I; they have uo advflrtPncP or dirflrt con­sciousness of their sufferings." .1\nimals must suffer to some extent though, and it is wrong to add unneo~ssarily to these sufferings. Tlw sentimnnlalism that treats animal pain as an evil as great as human pai11. however. is unrnasonable and ridiculous. Killing innocent human lives in tlrn womh, for example. offers no com­parison lo butchering "helpless" cattle. 
Whnthnr as companions, means of work, for the benefit of med­inti advanc1mrn11t, as clothing or as food, animals were placed in the stewardship or men. "Lel man have dominion over the fish of the sea. and over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, and over all tlw 1•arth, and over nvnry creeping thing that rrawls upon the earth"(Genesis 1 :26J. 
Thcrn is nothing wrong with being a vegetarian, or evfln a vegan. I low1wcr, ii' sonrnone is trying to lead another to believe tbat eating nrnat is cruel becaus11 it causes an animal to suffer, that person is wrong. Animals were t>ntrustPd to the stewardship of man for his use. 
Julie Shields 
Sama Barbara, Calif. 
Febrary I 4. 2000 

Wrong is wrong 
II' we am to lwli1wc Bill Fenton (''UConn chanls were not that bad. 2/16'') then we can toss rules of Dtiquctte altogether and sim­ply mW our behavior against something worse. That should be nasy. Never mind etiquette! Following his logic (and I am talking reasoning here, not basketball) everything from human rights vio­lations (well. the Germans killed 6 million Jews!) to speeding through a n~d light and causing a traflic accident in which one maims only one ortive children (well, there was this guy who killed an 1•ntirn family in a car accident!} can be made somehow !1iss unacceptable, and we can let ourselves off the hook for what is in and of itself' wrong. Worse yet is the notion that if we have IJPen tlw recipient or some action that was wrong, we have the right to do some action that is wrong -as long as it is in our eyes kss wrung -and w1i should not be 1:riticized for it. 
Back lo sports. Class isn't just peeing on your opponent or not vandalizing his car. Class, if you'll pardon the expression, is in a class by itself. We can't excuse our behavior by comparing it to something worse. It's like what Coach D said: "Anything that is vulgar or is a personal slur has no place in the Joyce Center." Quite simple. if you think about it. 
We'II leave out. !'or tlrn moment, the discussion about living in glass houses and throwing stones_. 
Ursula Williams 

Dirrcror, Langnage Resource Cemer 
February 15. 2000 

Kessler out of line 
Brian Kesslnr was out of line in bis Irish Insight column concern­ing Connecticut head coach Jim Calhoun. It is embarrassing that opponents can walk away from Notre Dame and correctly point out that the student body has no class. It is embarrassing that so many fans writ11 in to say how disappointed tbey are at how poorly the studmits of Notre Dame carried themselves. 
This is not what Notre Dame is supposed to stand for. It's one thing to ciHwr on tlw Irish -and \fatt Doherty has given us some­thing lo finally elmer about -but it should be done with respect for our opµoiwnls as well as our own teams. Peoplll have come to expect Nolre Dame to stand for something that is a cut above thfl rest. In this day and age or trash talking lhat permeates sports and sociNy, Notre Danrn is expected to be better. It is expected in all aspecl9 of' the Notre Dame community. We expert the playPrs and coaches to carry themselves with class. The students should do likewise. There has been a tradition of excellence handed down to us, the curr1mt studfmt body, that has rnacfo Notre Damn nrnan something special to p1~ople across the country. 
Events likn Saturday's tastelf\ss heckling are showing that we are not being good keepers of that tradition. Kessler's comment that e4uat1\d Notrn Danrn students acting like a bunch of idiots to UConn playing physical on tlw blocks, which is part of the gamfl, is simply ridiculous. There arc not many hf)rc any more who had the oppor­tunity to hear Lou lloltz address tho students before the Ohio State game in 1996. Ono of the key points he stressed to us was that Notro Dame was ·not like other places. We are a great University that has great traditions and individuals that carrv Hrnmselves with a great deal of dignity and class. We would do well to remember that in the future. 
Matthew McCoyd 
Senior, Olkampus 
February 14, :WOO 
OBSERVER page 11 
Faculty perpetuates racism 
My friend, dark-skinner! and of Mexican descent, sat in class this week and received his paper back covered in red marks. The teacher later talked to my fricud, who incidrmtally is t.hc only dark skinned student in the dass (although one of several that received a poor grade), and asked him, "Was English your first language?" My friend was stunned at thfl question and folt incredibly awkward. This is the same friend who, after submitting his resume at tho career center earlier this vear, was asked by a woman working there to remem­ber to add a line indicating that he was indeed a United States ritizen. 
Are these standard questions and commnnts that profes­sors usuallv ask all anct' everv student when the stu­dent performs badly on an assignment or wants to apply for a job? Or do they have some­thing to do with the color ol' mv friend's skin,~ tech­nicality that too often leads to unfair preju­dices against people of varied ethnicity? 
In the incipience of a new century, at one of the finest uni­versities in the world, it is appalling to discover the ignorance at Notre Dame. In all fairness, the process of improving cultural relations at Notre Dame is commendable, and even for many who fail to appreciate the importance of embracing and feeling comfort­able around diversity, l do not believe that it is because of their evil intent, but once again, because of ignorance. The ignorance thrives in 
baseless stereotypes and outdated categoriza­
tions of people inflicting senseless pain and 
confusion. Ynt, the problem becomes intolera­
ble when professors and known departments at 
Notre Dame perpetuate this ignorance in the most inappropriate manner arid fall vic­tim to stereotypes and prejudices. It is then that I begin to truly ques­tion the standard of profes­sionalism to which this incredible faculty feels obligated to adhere. If the students at Notre Dame are to fully respect and understand racial diversity and com­bat stereotypes which continue to plague this country, then at the very least, Notre Dame must ensure that its lead­ers of this movement. namely the faculty and administra­tion, set a precedent. I have strong hope that my friend's experi­ences will exem­plify to students and faculty alike that there is crucial work that remains to be done by every­one in regards to improving good racial relations and understand­ing. Rather than viewing this as a setback, I challenge read­ers to acknowledge the subtle, yet painful forms of prejudices that ubiq­uitously affect people and develop an interest to positively bring about change. 
Ken Seifert 
Freshman Mulciculrural Commissioner for Stanford Hall February 16, 2000 
College is not job training 
The letter on Feb. 15 from two seniors con­cerning jobs for Arts and Letters students and post-graduate service programs took me right back to many of the concerns that I felt as a student nearing the end of my life at Notre Dame, as well as to the anxieties many feel as they near their time in our program. 
As the Director of Holy Cross Associates, one of the "service projects" mentioned in the let­ter, I have many opportunities to listen to post­graduate volunteers as they begin the "what next" process. I encourage them to think of the feelings of anxiety that naturally come with life changes as a mass of possibilities, not a lack of opportunities. Thero are lots of jobs out there for folks with all kinds of backgrounds, even if they seem hardPr to find in certain major tields or do not appear as financially lucrative as what one might find had one pursued other majors. 
If one takes as a viewpoint the notion that college education is primarily job training, then one is likely to be disappointed no matter the chosen field of studies. If, on the other hand, one views it as a mPans of further discovering a vocation, then all the experiences -classes, projects, relationships, hall massf\s, athletics; all of college life -help students to uncover their vocations, the gifts one possess to put to the best use of him or herself and the commu­nity. By vocation, I refer to the many life paths one can choose. Good colleges and universities would do tremendous disservice to students if they only encouraged the development ofjob skills. Further, schools like Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and others steeped in strong faith traditions would do much poorer by its stu­dents if they did not encourage an even deeper exploration of vocation in the context of one's gifts as God given and meant to be discerned and discovered by commitment and experience. 
In this light, programs like Holy Cross Associates, ACE and many others provide a context for this exploration. Our program stresses the idea that one's call is not (neces­sarily) found on graduation day, but rather a continuous journey taking one through the pos­sibilities of vocation as family members, single people, religious life, and many other callings. Most participants in our program will tell a lis­tener that they discovered many things ahout themselves and their callings, but that the experiences moved them farther away from thinking that they had discovered what their job should he in the future. It becomes helter understood as a lifelong journey. 
I encourage readers, particularly those reaching the end of their tenures at school, to consider all the possibilities available to them, including the possibility of service in a post­graduate program. Their rewards don't include lucrative sums of money, but the experiences linger for a lifetime. 
John Pinter, '81 
Director, Hqly Cross Associates February 16, 2000 

w E 
page 12 
HEALTH COLUMN 
Saving yourself when you 
cannot save a friend 
Yes, this is another article about eating your lirsi class is Calculus at 8:30, you sleep disorders. I know you've had your fill. From in. But my friend didn't just sleep in, she the myriad of testimonials, which appeared went into hibfffnation. And I naturally began last semester in Tho Observer to every to worry. l had to deal with that fine line awareness article you've read this week, you between being a friend and following my are on the brink of parental instinct. At first I remained the developing a new dis­friend. It wasn't my job to make her get up. order -a sickness Anonymous If she didn't want to go, 1wouldn't force the spawned by reading issue. too many sob stories Instead, I began to adopt her pattern. I about young women Notre Dame would go to class but immediately come who suffer from either student back and sleep. l wouldn't work or interact. I bulimia or anorexia. would just sleep. I would sleep to try to 
Only your disorder is recapture that dream world where no one of a far more dangerous kind because it suffered. I would sleep to avoid the problem, reflects the attitude you carry towards this but as I slept, the issmi -her eating disor­issue. An attitude that if not changed today der -began to plague us bol.h. will continue to plague you, your family and I would sometimes ask how things wern tho Notre Dame community. Apathy, indif­going, but I noticed a distance had come ference, call it what you will, but if you think between us. Worried that my questions that eating disorders do not affect you and worsened the situation, I stopped asking. Big you call yourself a Domer, you suffer too. mistake. Because after that point I started You not only suffer from your own sickness focusing on myself. I looked at her and saw but you contribute to the suffering of others, this beautiful girl who got tons ofattention those students diagnosed with these diseases from the male species, and I would think and those students and counselors trying to how I would kill to be her. Then I would help them. I know, you don't think you can think how unfair it was that she got all the possibly handle another article on eating dis­attention when she cheated to look that way. orders, but I implore you to read on. Then I would think about how I couldn't Because this article is written by someone seem to help her and how I had failed her as who was just like you. a friend. Making her problem disappear, 
Three years ago, when I arrived on this saving my friend, was my goal. And I was a campus, the issue that was the furthest from failure. my mind was eating disorders. I was so During this time, my own self-esteem excited to be here. so happy in this wonder­plummeted. And worst of all, I had lost my land that I really forgot about suffering alto­best friend, my confidant, to this disease. I gether. If you had asked me in the first sev­didn't know what to do. I called my parents eral weeks or even months what I thought crying every other day, but the moment they about U.N. inspections in Iraq or Clinton's mentioned transferring I said no way. I still foreign policy involving the former believed in the mystical power of this place Yugoslavia, I couldn't reply. I, like so many that would someday make everything all other students on this campus, became right. My initial solution was to move off­absorbed by my new life, filled with new campus, a little distance would solve every­friendships, new classes and of course a new thing. Unfortunately, my new roommate was football season. also bulimic. 
Naively, I began to think that nothing I kept trying to tell myself that eating dis­could go wrong on this hallowed ground. No orders were not my problem. l certainly one suffered here. I thought this until that didn't suffer from one, I wasn't binging and fateful day when my roommate, my new best purging after every meal. But I did suffer, friend, told me she was bulimic. like so many other students trying to cope 
I describe that day as fateful because it with friends who have eating disorders. And truly changed my life, but the truth is I can't I needed help. It's so hard to admit that you really remember much about the moment at suffer because of your friend's problem. all. I know I didn't even suspect that she was She's hurting and she will struggle for the bingeing and purging, so I know I didn't rest of her life with this disease. How could I question her. But my friends and I had sus­begin to compare my coping difficulties with pected another friend of being bulimic and the problems faced by my friend? we would talk about it alot, especially after After almost two years, two friends/room­meals. My roommate was nearly always pre­mates with bulimia, denial after denial, sent for these discussions. I think that's why chunks in my shower and people constantly she decided to tell me that she suffered too. telling me their solutions about my friends' Looking back, I think about how much it problems, I admitted I had a problem. I was must have hurt her, our shallow assessment overwhelmed. I was depressed. I wanted it of this other girl, transposing our judge­all to go away. I needed help and I needed to ments about her onto herself. Looking back, admit that eating disorders were my prob­I can see how my apathy towards and my lem. I decided I needed to confide in others inexperience in dealing with eating disorders evt>n if that meant revealing my friend's truly affected, if not harmed, my roommate. secret. I had to address my problems about 
So, she told me she was bulimic. Not to eating disorders before I could hope to help sound crass, but I was glad for an instant. my friends. I had to learn how to help them Happy that within a few months we had without betraying myself. bonded enough for her to share something If you live on this campus and you think so intimate. so private. Also, for a few fleet­eating disorders are not your problem, ing weeks I thought she would get over it. you're so wrong. If you have a friend with an ¼'hat did I know? I had never dealt with this eating disorder, don't be afraid to get help before. We would talk. I would ask her if it for yourself before you t.ry to help them. was a good or bad day. I would ask her if Your ability to cope is critical to opening the she saw her counselor. I began to play moth­lines of communication and maintaining er hen. And I never questioned her honesty. honAsty in the friendship. You also have to With this minor bump in the road, life went admit you will never cure your friend's dis­on as usual. I went back to being absorbed ease. Just listen, listen to them. but most by college life and the idea that no suffering importantly listen to yourself'. Recognize happened here, at least any that couldn't be your limits and never feel guilty about placated wi.th a little care and some counsel­putting yourself first. There are counselors ing. available to help you, to teach you how to 
And then she didn't wake up. Again, it cope, and to listen. took me a while to recognize something wasn't right. Everybody skips a few classes The views expressed in this column are when they get to college. No parents, no those ofthe author and not necessarily those calls from the school secretary. And when of The Observer. 

n 
N D 
Friday, February 18, 2000 

Dancers pranc 
Saint Marys dancers present a ' 
By MIKE VANEGAS 
Scene Editor 
There's going to be a dance at Saint Mary's this weekend. In fact, it's a weekend-long dance, and it starts tonight. There will be a handful of women, one man and a bunch of spectators watching this dance. But, surprise, surprise, it's not an SYH. "20th Century Dance Instead, it's the 
Retrospective"
"20th Century 
I) a n C C Hetrosµective," 
. Where: Saint Mary's
and far from 
O'Laughlin Auditorium
ihe SYR men­
tality, the show . When: Friday, Saturday, 
plans to give 
8 p.m.
guests a look at the evolu­Sunday 2:30 p.m. 
tion of dance. 
. Tickets: $5.50 to $8.50 
"It is taking a 
O'Laughlin box
look at dance through the office 20th century," said the show's director Laura Lowry. "We tried to give an overview of what dance has done, what paths it has taken and how it's changed." 
And though the "Dance Retrospective" is not a typical show one may see at O'Laughlin Auditorium or at the Little Theater of Moreau Center or even at Washington Hall, it comes during a season in which every little theater 


Dancers from Notre Dame ant 
group is performing the typical Broadway­

with their performances this
csque production. There's Shakespeare, and 

trend and important societal ,
there's "Grease" and there's more Shakespeare. 
But this, readers, this "Dance Retrospective" is not theater. It's Vegas. It's dancers, on a stage, dancing. And there is variety throughout the show, which makes it much easier to han­dle with a short attention span. 
"The pieces are more like a kaleidoscope of different things." said Lowry. But the show isn't bogged down by an overarching theme or message. For that reason, the "Dance Retrospective" can differentiate itself from other spring productions. 
"There are some pieces that have social mes­sages -Trepidation Toward Liberty has a social message against violence -but are we trying to create one big message through the whole show? I would say it's kind of reflecting on where we've been as a country, and how we express ourselves through dance," added Lowry. 
But Lowry recognizes that such a production -a "Dance Retrospective" -is not for every­one. 
"There is a dance audience that is interested in dance, and has a tendency to come all the time," she said. But still, she said people who aren't particularly fanatics when it comes to dance should expect "to get a taste of many different things in onfl show." 
These things, indeed, are many. There will be a few excerpts from "Romeo and Juliet," a lunger ballet piece, a series called American Dances, which shows the progression of social dance throughout the century, the aforemen­tioned Trepidation Toward Liberty, a combina­tion modern dance-sculpture piece using hand­hold metallic boxes and, perhaps most antici­pated, Jfolen Tamiris's "Negro Spirituals." 
And behind this diverse plate of dance, there are people who simply make it happen. 
"The dancers have been extremely conscien­tious and I'm very proud of them and what they're doing because they have a lot of demands on them. They were right there the whole way," said Lowry. 
But to finish up, there is this weekend, and Lowry said they are all pretty much ready. 
"Everything seems ready. The dancers are ready. The dances are ready. We're still sewing costumes, but I have confidence [it) will all be there. The lighting seems to be going well. I feel good," she said. 



f'"'\!.HE Friday, February 18, 2000 vnSERYER page 13 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 

Saint Mary's will light up the stage weekend. Dances showcase talent, ssons. 


SCENE THROUGH OUR EYES 
JPW's real purpose 
I remember being told that there are three times when you are important at Notre Dame: 1) freshman Orientation. 2) Junior Parent's Weekend and 3) Graduation. Well, the Class of 2001 has finally emerged from the 
anonymity of sophomore year and made it to No. 
2: JPW. This wePkend is dedicated to our families and us. Are you ready to bask in the spotlight? 
Personally, I have been looking forward to JPW since I worked at 

the event last year. 
Jenn Zatorski
Granted, I didn't have 
the most fun trying to 
serve dinner to thou­
sands of people (so assistant 
please be kind to your 
Scene editor 
wait staff this week­end!), but everyone I waited on was having a great time. All of my upperclass friends raved about JPW. I was excited for the time when my family and I would be the guests of honor at these events. 
The anticipation for JPW has steadily increased since I returned from winter 

-
break. My friends and I are thrilled to final­ly have plans for the weekend that don't include watching a movie or trying to find an off-campus party. We are excited for our parents' visit; we've organized a dinner for more than 25 people tonight. The evening promises to be filled with good conversation and fun. My dorm is hosting a luncheon tomorrow. My friends and I also bought tickets for a huge after party that is being held at the College Football Hall of Fame on Saturday night. In addition, there are the University-sponsored activities -a gala, a Mass, a dinner and a brunch. With so many events to partake in, it is becom­ing hard to keep track of where I will be and when. 
It is also hard to believe that after all of this waiting and excitement, JPW is finally here. It is almost like your birthday or Christmas -you wait so long for some­thing and then when it finally happens, you can't believe it. 
Unfortunately, these occasions are usual­ly over in the blink of an eye. While today is the start of JPW, you will be waking up for class Monday morning before you know it. 
Therefore, we must be extra careful not to let the moment of this weekend slip us by. There will always be books to read, problem sets to complete, computer pro­grams to write and tests to study for. You will only be a junior at the University of Notre Dame once in your lifetime, however. This special weekend gives us the chance to contemplate the years that we have spent at this university and the short amount of time that we have remaining here. It gives us the chance to reflect upon and clrnrish the friendships that we have made. It gives us the chance to be proud of our many accomplishments. Most impor­tantly, though, it gives us the opportunity to honor our parents and to thank them for providing us with the best education possi­ble. 
So take a quiet moment for yourself this weekend amidst the laughter and the danc­ing. Think about your family, your friends and your life here at Notre Dame. Think about your future and how bright it looks. Think about the wonderful gift that you have been given. While the glory of this particular occasion is fleeting, these truths will endure. As part of the Notre Dame family, we bask in the spotlight everyday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer 


page 14 The Ohserver . SPORTS Friday, February 18, 2000 
Swim 
continued from page 24 
divers competing at this year's meet. Last year, the team was without a diving contingent. 
"Tonight our divers made a big impart,·· said Welsh. "Tt was an extremely solid con­tribution. Our hope was to have two divers in the top eight. and that's what hap­pened." 
Junior llerbie Huesman fin­ished the one-meter diving competition in fourth place with 477.90 points and was followed by freshman Andy Maggio who took sixth place with 454.,O points and llnally by freshman Tony Xif'. who finished in l'ourtcenth plc1ce with 33&.80 points. 
WPlsh is optimistic about the divers' performances in Friday's 3-meter diving com­petition. •·we are generally tougher in ]-meter competi­tion," he said. 
The team's stratagy /'or 

Friday's competition and the rC'st of the meet is to rar:e fast in tht1 preliminaries in order lo ser:ure positions in the tinals. 
"You win championship meets in finals, but you have to score as many points as possible in the prPliminaries," said Welsh. "For us to main­tain our position or to move up, we have to do that. We have 17 mens in the morning and we tHWd all l 7. '' 
"v\'e are continuing to t'ocus on the need to rar:e and race well. WP have to be aggressive. be sensible and beat the r:lock. The team's perf'ormanco tomorrow will depend on how well we race in the morning and how many quality for the finals." 
The team's strength in Fri<lav's events liPs in the 400 in<livldual medley race and the 100-yard breaststroke ra('.e. 
Nunrnricallv, the team has the most swimmers in the l 00-yard breaststroke and needs to do well in order to get nil five partir.ipants to 
score. said Welsh. Verlin agrncd with Welsh\; strategy. 
"We have to swim well in the morning to get good seeds for the finals at night." said Verlin. "That's how we can move up in the places tomor­
., 
row 
Overall, Webb was pleased with his team's pcrf'ormanr:e, particularly coming ol'f a sec­ond place rinish in the Big Hast Conf'cr1~ncf' Championship last yrar. 
"Last year, being second in the meet was a dream." said Welsh. "Where we arc at this point tells us what remains to be dona. The first day is the most unpredictable day. but I think we can bi• brtLer as the meet goes on and that is our objective. ToniglH WH did much bew-1r than this morn­ing. We had !Jetter intensity. I think we will continue to improve with ,wery session. Pittsburgh clearly led compe­tition today, but who will hold places two, three, !'our and five al'tf~r tomorrow is lo be announcr.d." 

NBA 

Bulls take care of Mavericks without Kukoc on court 
Alonzo Mourning led Miami piece of the championship followed by Brand's dunk. gave Rodman, beat Detroit. 
Associated Press 

with 15 points and· 11 dynasty was traded to the Bulls a 28-26 lead. Rodman was serving a one­
CHICAGO rebounds, and Tim Hardawav Philadelphia on Wednesday, Any time the Ileat seemed on game suspension as a result of Toni who? added 14. Jamal Mashburn the Bulls' already dismal for­the verge of pulling away, the his ejection in Tuesday night's Playing their first game with­had 12 points. tunes looked even worse. They Bulls came up with an answer. loss to Milwaukee. Rodman 
out Toni Kukoc, the Chicago It was Chicago's second­were 2-22 and flirting with the When P.J. Brown gave Miami a also was fined $10,000 by the Bulls got big games from Elton straight victory over Miami. NBA record for l'utilitv when 44-39 lead, llawkins respond­NBA. Brand and Ilersev Hawkins which has the second-best Kukoc was on the injui·ed list, ed with a 3-pointer. When The Mavericks lost each of and put together o·ne of their record in the · Eastern and their prospects didn't look Hardaway hit a 3-pointer, Carr the two games Bodman played
-Conference. It ,,vas the Heat's much better. scored six straight points to even though the controversial
best defensive efforts of the season as they stunned the second-lowest point total of the Chicago looked lost for much pull Chicago within one at 49-forward had a total of 29 Miami Heat 83-76 on Thursday season. of the tirst quarter, scoring just 48. rebounds. Dallas has won eight night. Miami got within 60-59 on a two field goals in the lc1st 4:15 The Bulls took the lead on a of its last nine games without Brand had 26 points and 10 layup by Chris Carter, but and shooting just 30 percent three-point play from Brand. Rodman. rebounds. Hawkins, who had Chris Carr hit a 3-pointer, overall as Miami took a 23-16 and he and Maloney each Dirk Nowitzki led Dallas with only scored in double figures Brand made two free throws lead. But the Bulls soon real­made a pair of free throws to 22 points, 12 rebounds and five once in the 13 games since he and Hawkins drilled a short ized Kukoc wasn't going to give the Bulls a 55-53 lead at assists. Michael Finlev and returned from the injured list. jumper and a 3-pointcr to put come rescue them any time the start of the fourth quarter. Cedric Ceballas each had 21 had 20 points and a season­the Bulls back up 70-59. After soon, opening the second quar­points.
Dallas 106, Detroit 97 

high nine rebounds. that. all that was left was the ter with a 12-3 run of their Nash's 3-pointer with 6:47 to
Steve Nash scored 14 of his 

Despite four players in dou­celebrating. own. play gave Dallas an 89-88 lead,
18 points in the fourth quarter

ble figures, the Heat were held When Kukoc, Chicago's lead­Back-to-back 3-pointers by and the Mavericks led the rest
as the Dallas Mavericks, play­
ing without suspended Dennis 
The Observer accepts cbssifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. ar rhe Norrc Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Ohserver reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content wi thou r issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
to 41 percent from the floor. ing scorer and the last key Matt Maloney and Hawkins, of'the way.

WEB DESIGNER NEEDED  FLINT COMPLETE PERSONNEL  Frasso:  
NOTICES  National Publication has opening for designer to help improve and maintain existing sites.  SERVICES 102 N. MAIN ST. SOUTH BEND  FOR SALE  PERSONAL  Which one is cooler? Tony or Pete? Or maybe Mama Frasso is the hip  
277-0033 ­ one.  
Are you a music lover who'd  www.nkn.com  FLINT IS RECRUITING FOR THE  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  www.thecommentator.com  
like to pick up a few extra  FOLLOWING PERMANENT POSI­ AND CLOSE  Chas:  
bucks this semester? Pop in to  ATTENTION SOUND ENGINEERS  TION  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  OUTDOOR ADVENTURE INTER­ What's up with that guy?  
Orbil Music al 1841 So. Bend Ave  Local Sound Company has open­ email:mmmrentals@aol.com  SHIP! with Idaho Whitewater  
and pick up an application. Find out  ings for experienced FOH engi­ INSIDE SALES REPRESENTA­ 232-2595  Rafting Company owned by ND  Gunther: your first classified. Feel  
more about all three of our stores  neers and stage hands.  TIVE  Grads.  Learn about operating a  Special  
al www.orbitrecords.com.  Call 277-0032  Growing anti Expanding Staffing  6 BEDRM.  small business, entrepreneurship,  
www.thesoundcompny.com  Looking  For Highly Motivated,  '00-'01  marketing, and business strategy.  Yeah A-Team  
LOST & FOUND  GRAPHIC LAYOUT International racing publication  Energetic Person. Must Have C/S Skills and Sales Exp.  $1200/rno. 273-0482  Plenty of time to float the rivers too! Informational meeting on Mon. 2/21 @ 12:30 & 3 PM in  Yay Team 395!!!! I miss you! Fluffy misses you!  
If anyone has picked up an old  has opening for computer graphics layout person.  Interested Candidates Contact Kim  Please  B'NB REGISTRY 219-291-7153  204 SI. Ed's. Email Andy at  I'm so glad I set the bar so high for  
gray knit glove I would actually  Looking for fresh exciting designs  (219) 233-2150  anachman@yahoo.com  AME that nobody feels they can live  
pay to get it back. that is how important ii is to me. Also, if  to improve established magazine. Flexible hours.  Young family seeks fluent German­ looking to sublease Turtle Creek townhouse for spring ·01 semester.  or call@ 208-634-1606 with questions.  up to my standard ... or something.  
anyone has found or has seen a  277-0033  spea king  mother's  helper  2-3  if interested,  NEMATODE!  
skateboard wuh a blank wood col­ored bottom and wt1ite wheels. l ofter a reward for that as well. For any information call Gavin at 4·  Editor/proof reader needed to work with writers for national publica.t1on.  times/wk. 5 minutes from ND. Must have transportation. 271-8355  call Ryan ASAP. 4-2563 3-4 bdrm new home, f/p, cathedral  FREE Money http://i.am/yourfreemoney Bluebush  Erin how long until you stop hob­bling about?  
1267  Flexible hours.  ceilings, 3 baths,  I'm still waiting for you  Sean and I told you to leave Felix  
Call 277-0033  SUBLEASE YOUR HOME  2-car garage, family room.  Love Blue  alone  
WANTED  DOG-SITTER'  this summer to visiting faculty of ND.  $1400/mo. 616-683-5038  Bluebush don't be a GINE to soci­ Maybe now you'll learn  
Love dogs?  Needed mJune and July.  219-340-1844  ety  
Childcare needed. 1 or 2 students for 20 hrs per week  Pis. help me' Need a sitter for  Professor with 3 children and a dog  219-232-4527  Student Activities is now hiring  Dyaln's dad is dead?  
•  between 9 and 5 to watch 2 yr old & newborn for ND pro! in our home.Experience and transporta­ my new puppy-esp. JPW, 1-2 aftrnsfwk and Wed. nites.  Must be close to Notre Dame. Please call 631-3165.  For Sale  sound technicians. For more information or to pick up an application.  That's what you get for watching 90210  
tion required.Some flexibility in scheduling possible. Please call  Call Megan @ 246-0295.  SUMMER CHILD CARE NEEDED for visiting faculty of ND.  New Phone Card 886 mins. $20  stop by 315 La Fortune.  it'll kill you every time  
Rose at 289-3865  Wanted 50 serious people to lose  Schedule will include day class  258-4805 or 243-9361  T ­the infirmary huh?  
ATTENTION: THE PHONE NUM BER IN THIS AD HAS BEEN COR­ weight. safely & Natural/guaranteed  effectively.  tirne. some evening and weekend hours.  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  Chuk, You can't bribe your way to the top.  maybe he was bitten by the love  
RECTED, PLEASE CALL AGAIN IF  www.lose-now.com  Will need references.  with orthopedic mattress set and  bug  
YOU TRIED BEFORE ANO GOT A  or  Gall for an appointment  deluxe frame. New, never used, still  Turner,  
WRONG NUMBER  1-800-883-1569  631-3165.  in plastic. $235  219-862-2082  Sucking up will get you nowhere  trust me on ihis one  

Friday, Februaryl8, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

CJ}ou 'llre Cordially 9nviled lo the C/3/ack Cullur11/ 9lr!s Council of 9rolre <JJame 
CJjear 2000 cp,oducHon of 

Blak Koffee Honse 

"9[CJtose is UHi/ t1 CJtose: Our 9lislory is CJjour 9lislory" 
Cfrldng Cvening, Cfebrunrg 18 
8:00 p.m. .. J?,nCforlune 93n!lroom 
Otudenl: SJ.00 IQeneral S5.00 Cfickels cnn he purchnsed nl lhe door. 
CJ)/eaJe dress approprlafe/g. 





page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 18, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish look to steal win away from No. 23 Pirates 
* National Recording Artists Tim and Ryan .€1:~;:•N.~iJJ.{ND ·~l61-....·.84..f;~fl):··•ar~ looki11g .for<··an 
·gfff1tial ~bng ~ilt~r, ill~nlh~trurrtentalist to 
. ,. ; , . 
feature on.their ''O'Neill Brothers -The N.otre .."fl~nie·•··•···Experieric.e·'··, ..._...........,. t~·•··.··•i~':,be ··..·teieased•••••·tnis 
For more information contact:

-
SHAMROCKNROLL.COM 
Or: Stop by the Bookstore this Saturday, Feb..19 
between 10am-noon to talk with Tim & Ryan O'Neill 


By BRIAN KESSLER Sporn Edimr 

The road has been a lonely place for tlw Notre Damp bas• ketball team this season. 
Aside from huge wins over 
Ohio Stat" a n d Connect­icut. Notre' 
Dame has b(H'l1 0-/{ 
away from the ·Joyce Center. It 


won't gr. t Doherty any easier Saturdav when tbc ·Irish lakl' 011 the No. 23 Seton llall Pirates at Continental Airlinns Arena in East nutherl'ord. N.. I. "Playing on thl' road is defi• nitely a concern l'or us," sophomori! forward David Graves said. "When wn pla.y at 
home, we feed off the crowd and we feel comfortable. We'n, dPfinitely dnr /"or a big road i'l-in. but this will b1• a tough game. We need to comp out and set the tone dcl'Bn­
sivelv." 

Seton Hall earned a Top 23 ranking this WPek !iJr thP f'irst time since• 199:1 and boasts an 18-5 record. 
The PiratPs arP also second in the conferenee with a I 0-3 mark. but are coming off a 59-50 loss to ConnPcticut. 
The Pirates are led by Darius Lane and Himas Kaukenas. who average 15.I and 13 points per game, respectively. 
Sh1~eh.Ln llolloway is one {)f the best µoint guards in the league and lflads the team in both assists (5.9 per ganrn) and rrbounding (5.3 per game). 
He also averages 12.8 

points pBr game. 
Thr Pirates arr" a verv dan­gerous te,1111 from behind lhe arc. Lane. Kaukenas. llol!owav and c;arv Saunders 
(9 .-+ po i·n ts µ1. r g-;i mH I have takPn llPady 400 3-poinfers and shout a combiiw<l 40 pcr­('r,nt from downtown. 
.. We definitely need to extend our 101w b1\causc they have some great shooters." Graves said. "Their team feel.ls off what thev do from the outsidfl. Thev live and die from the perin"1etcr. so we have to mukn sure we get out tlrnrn and c:ontl'st shots... 
The Piratns also lrnvl, one or the best shot-blockers in tlrn country in freshman Samuel Dalemlien who averages 3.'.> blocks per game. 
The Irish are led by All­American candidate Troy Murphy, who is fourth in the nation in scoring (23 points per game l and sixth in the country in rebounding 110.8 boards pnr conlesU. 
Last yt!ar. the Irish def'eated tlH' Piratcis Lwice during the n•g-ular season. but fell to Seton flail in the first round of the Big East Tournament. Murphy was injured for the first game, but averaged 25 points and 14 rebounds in the final two contosts. 
"I think we definitely have the advantage inside." said 
Graves who is second on the last Saturday's 68-66 upset we can finish the season any­team in scoring with 12.9 win over dcl'ending national where from second place to points per game. "We're going champion UConn. ninth place," Graves said. "We to try to pound the ball into This game is Lim start of a wntrol our own destiny. If we Troy and llarolu ISwanaganJ. crucial rive game-stretch that come out and play hard. play Hopt>fully we can control thn closes out tho regular season. smart and play together than game lhai way and get them During-that stretch the Irish we'l,\ be right up there at the 
into foul trouble because th(W will face the top three teams top. are not very deep." · in the conference. The road to the top begins Notre Dame is coming off "Coach has been saying that Saturday at Seton Hall. 

HOMES FOR RENT 
-Domus Properties has two, five, and seven bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 3 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 

. .-~ti:~~,'ana:'~~~e:~: -·~w ;~'.;~eq;9.90:6•p:p1ee of 


their·CD'a Nati6Hwiae. ey have been asked to capture ..The Notre Dame Experience·' on aCD,,. :t;e .a part. ofthia ~iJ~~~.:~~.,~.ela~I Pt~Jectl 
«:·::·:;;'·:,,:;'"'',;-:··\,;;·'"'•:-·­


F1iday, Febrnary I8, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 

Notre Dame aims to secure its fourth consecutive conference title this weekend at the Big 
East championships in New York. 
STUDY IN CHINAI 
The Department of East Asian Languages & Literatures 
announces the start of a new study-abroad program at Fudan University in Shangai, Peoples Republic of China 
-Summer, one semester, and academic-year options are available -Minimum requirements: one semester of Chinese Language instruction or equivalent -Credits earned will count toward a major or minor in Chinese 
For more information, please contact Prof. Liangyan Ge (Liangyan.Ge.1@nd.edu; 631-6687) Students may visit the site at: 
http://www.fudan.edu/English/nsindex.html 
ill,_. IT1sh Eyes ~ Sffi1l1ng 
Wlth Shamrock 
EyesM 
even 1f your v1s1on 1s perfect! 
onlyS6992 
perpa1T 
EKcludmq requ1n:•d ey<~ eKarr,. 

www.w1ld,ey,(•'1,•(ofl~ 


Don't Shan~ Your Coi.,J,u:t t ,~nH''> W::ilh Anyorw-!! (;i;:,rJ3c,.1 :ensm>, even if wcrr-, tor t'.JSff:~t'r: reM,ons, ~re 1>:,;-d1cal d•i!~iccs and :;tiould only 
t.i: w:,r;i wme, tn~ -~-.ipervis:on .A an uye caii:t W<.;ics1ior,al. Si1a11ng cont~l lon*s rNJ.y sr.)1~cJ-rr~1<J·<A,YJH1i£1:1$ wn1ch may raSuit :n sor!ou~ fN~ net3.lth problems Shamrock: E.yM' .. n,e r>arl of tt1t.i: g,owin,g fam:ty o1 WihfEye~y Contnct Len~ts. 
Eye exams available by appoinment. 

\Valmart Vision Center Waln1art Vision Center 
conveniently located off grape road 3701 Portage Rd. 316 Indian Ridge Rd. Mishawaka, .IN South Bend, IN 243-9714 243-7538 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
the second day of the meet." 
Citing inconsistency in morning races, difficulty with technical aspects in races, and a struggle to retain focus, Weathers wants to see the squad step up to their optimal level of performance in the next two days. 
"We were not as good as we could have been in the morn­ing," he said. "We had a lot of kids end up in consolation heats that should have been in the finals. There were a lot of things we could have done better. Overall, we're pleased with where we arc, but we can improve." 
While the possibility of the four-peat looms in the dis­tance, the potential win is not the only motivating factor for the team. 
Seeking to increase the number of swimmers qualify­ing for the NCAA Championship, thr Irish's goals reach beyond the Big East. 
"The girls would like to win, but it's not as much of an issue as performance." Weathers said. "We were relaxed this morning. We have to }seep our intensity." 
Intensity is expected from frontrunner Carrie Nixon, who added to her list of Big East titles Thursday by reset­ting her 50 freestyle confer­ence record in preliminaries, then lowering the mark again in finals. 
Nixon's mark of 22.58 sec­onds earned the junior sprint­er another Big East title and an automatic NCAA qualifica­tion time. 
Nixon was also a member of two Big East record setting relay teams Thursday, where the Irish continued to estab­lish their place in the confer­ence record books. 
The 200 freestyle relay of Brooke Davey, Nixon, Kelly Hecking and Laura Shepard undercut the 1999 record set by the Irish, re-establishing the mark at 1 minute, 32.64 seconds. 
Hecking, Elizabeth Barger, Shannon Suddarth and Nixon answered at the end of the meet, resetting the 400 med­ley relay record at 3:42.69. Other top performances included a 1-2 finish in the 500 freestyle from the duo of Kirsten Van Saun and Alison Newell. Van Saun, who entered the final in second place behind Newell, pulled ahead of the pack during the last six lengths to win the title in 4:51.97. 

The duo's finish set the pace for Thursday's finals, establishing Irish dominance. early on. 
"The 500 was really critical for us," Weathers said. "It was the first individual event, and it was important to score· there because we've scored well in the past." 
Continuing the trend. Notre Dame placed four swimmers in the final heat of the 50 freestyle, showing off a depth of a talented corps of sprint­ers. 
Following Nixon's first place finish. Shepard added a fourth place finish, Davey fell into sixth, and Hecking rounded out the heat in sev­enth. 
The Irish also saw strong 200 individual medley perfor­mances, with Allison Lloyd and Suddarth placing seventh and eighth. 
Diving competitors Heather Mattingly and Gina Ketelehohn earned fourth and seventh place honors for Notre Dame in the 3-meter competition, respectively. 
Placing multiple swimmers and ·divers in the final heats will continue to be a priority, as the team looks to capitalize on both standouts and depth. 
While stroke specialists will get a chance to shine on Friday and Saturday, there are holes that leave Weathers wary. 
"We only have one swimmer in the 400 individual medley tomorrow, and that will hurt us," Weathers said. "But we can score well in the stroke events." 
Nixon will return as the 
favorite in Saturday's 100 
freestyle, where she will seek 
to defend her conference title 
and record. 
"Because I won last year, that has really given me the confidence to know that I can do it again," she said. "I don't look at this as pressure, but as another opportunity to do something great. The more pressure you put on yourself, the harder it is," she said. 
Like Nixon, the team's focus 
will remain not on the immi­
nent four-peat, but on NCAA 
qualifications. 
"It is our largest team goal to win [Big East]." Nixon said. "But honestly. that's going to be easier than it has been in the past because we've stepped to a new level. This is a side goal -something we think about when we 're done." 
'\,.l.l)(l S1udi:111s/Cl11IJrcn/Si::11ilirs $(,.50 Atlult Stl'rcn Surround Sound in all Thcatrcs 
American Beauty A 
1 30 4 15 7 10 9:50 Boiler Room R ss 210 4:45 7·25 10·05 Eye of the Beholder R 12.55 3:15 5:35 Galaxy Quest PG 9:30 
PG-13 1:00 a:10 5:20 7:40 moo 
Hanging Up 
Next Friday R 
8.00 10:15 
Pitch Black R ss 
2·05 4 30 7:05 9:50 Scream 3 R 2·20 5·00 7:50 9:55 10:25 
snow Day PG 
1:10 3:25 5:40 7:55 10:,0 Stuart Little PG 2·30 5:00 7:35 The Beaeh R ss 2.00 4.40 7.35 10:15 
The Green Mile R 
3·45 7-30 
The Hurricane A 
12:45 3;55 7·00 10:10 
The Talented Mr. Ripley R 
12:50 4·00 7:20 10:20 The Tlgger Movie G 12'55 2:50 4:45 7:20 The Whole Nina Yards R ss 12:45 3:05 5:30 7:55 10:20 

!Ot,\VS Ill.II, OHlY !()JR OAY ADVANCE TICK!! SAl!S f~NOIC.,P ACC!Sl!Bl! t NO PASIEl · NC S~i'lilA'llR~ 

-, I 
-, 



Thi Observer . SPORTS Friday, February I 8, 2000 
WOMEN'S TRACK 

Irish ready for struggle at championships without Deeter 
jump. high jump and pole vault. pentathlon.
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Engelhardt, a senior All­Sprinters for the Irish contest­Assisrant Spom Edirar 
Ameriran has placed second in ing for points in the meet the high jump in the Big East include sophomore standout Liz 
The women's track and field Indoors Championships each of Grow in the 60-metcr dash and team onlv lost one athlete who the past three years. while 400-meter dash. King in the 60­placed i~ the top four at last adding two victories in the Big meter hurdles. Amanda Alvarez year's Big East Indoors East Outdoors Championships. in the 200-meter dash. and Championships. Unfortunately, The samP competitor. Tomika Carri Lenz in the 500-meter that athlete scored both a victo­Tomplin of Connecticut, has dash. ry and a runner-up finish a year defeated Engelhardt in each of "We're looking at Liz Grow in ago. the indoors competitions. the 400. who has the potential 
The Irish return everybody "Going from past years, I think to win or be in the top two or but All-American distance run­we've got kind or an archrivalry three," Millar said. "We'd like to ner JoAnna Deeter from the going. so I'm definitely going see Tamcisha King do well. I 1999 squad, but her loss could after her," Engelhardt said. "I think she has the potential to be leave the Irish struggling to think it's any man's game." a major factor. Carri Lenz in the match their third-place finish. Engf'lhardt is undefeated four 500, we're going to be really 
"On the women's side. I don't meets into the season. A victory counting on her to step it up." know that we're as strong," at the Big East meet would Distance eVimts hold the dis­sprints coach John Millar said. make it live in a row. advantage of going up against a "Last year. we were able to put "It's going to be a duel loaded deck. The Big East has a people in events and have them between those two [Engelhardt history of competitive teams. as 
do more than we expected from and Tomplin] from all appear­five schools sent squads to them. Losing JoAnna Deeter, ances," fiPld events coach Scott nationals in cross countrv. that obviously hurt us. because Winsor said. "But Jenni has got­"The league is just so 0 good in that's probably 20 points that ten her outdoors, and Tomiku those areas," women's distance we could have counted on. Not has gottPn her indoors. It's coach Tim Connelly said. 
having her there is a factor." going to take a very good jump "That's just the nature of the 
The women's squad is very for Jenni to get her." league. That's what the schools wide-open, with Georgetown. Freshman Tameisha King has in our league have traditionally Miami. Pittsburgh, Miami, turned heads in the long jump, been strong in." Villanova. Seton Hall and Notre setting a new Notre Dame Deeter, who won the 5,000­Dame all likelv to contend !'or rer,ord in the event. meter run and took second in the top few spots. "Tameisha hopefully can rise the 3,000-meter run a season 
"Ba.sir.ally. if everyone per­to the occasion." Winsor said. ago, could be a missing link for forms up to their capabilities. "Tameisha's got all kinds of tal­Notre Dame in their race for the we shouldn't have a problem ent. Tameisha is in a situation top of the Big East. taking home a championship," where she just won in high 'Td like to see us come close captain Jen Engelhardt said. school because she's so talent­to duplicating what we did last 
The problem the Irish face is a ed. and she's not going to be year, but J think that's going to lack of depth, due to the relative able to do that at this level. be really hard," Connelly said. youth of the women's trar.k and She's really going to have to "We're missing some kids that season, and hopefully place Patty Rice is entered in the mile 
highly in the 5,000 and hopeful­run. while junior Leanne Bradyfield program at Notre Dame. buckle down and work hard. lf scored a lot of points last year. 

ly place in the 3,000," Klemmer should place in the 1,000-meter"We just don't have the depth she pops a good one, she r,oulcl so we're not going in there with said. "The 5,000 is going to be run. The Irish also have relavsthat we do on the men's side, so be right in the hunt to win it, but a bunch of sure points in the 

very competitive, no matter entered in the 4x400-meter

we sort of count on certain peo­it's going to take a good jump." distanr,e races." 
what. It depends who's in it, relay, the 4x800-meter relay

ple to score a lot of points," Fellow freshman Jaime Senior All-American Alison Millar said. "If they don't do Volkmer poses a double threat Klemmer, scheduled to run the whether or not there's going to and the distance medley relay. be an out and out winner." "By the time you get to the
well, we don't have the depth to to conference foes with her tal­5,000-metcr run and the 3,000­fall back on. ents in the pole vault and triple meter run, will contend for the Nicole LaSelle will join relays on Sunday afternoon. a "Our program is only eight jump. She has also set a new top of the leag'ue. Klemmer in 5,000-meter com­whole lot of it is who has any 
petition. as will freshman Jen legs left underneath them,"

years old, so it's not as ground­record this season !'or the Irish. 'Tm hoping to run a whole lot Handley in the 3,000. Captain Connelly said. 
ed as the men's side, which "Jaime Volkmer is just a great better than I have so far this 
started when Knute Rockne was competitor," Winsor said. "I coach." Millar added. "We're haven't seen any signs in her just a little behind because most that would indicate that she is 
of thE' other schools have had going to fold under a little bit of women ·s track for 15 to 20 pressure." years now." Other entrip,s in the field 
The field events provide events for the Irish include strength for the Irish women. sophomore Dore DeBartolo in They have competitors who are the shot put and the 20-lb. strong contenders f'or runs at weight throw. as well as Emily 
the championship in the long Bienko and Betsy Lazzeri in the 




--~---·Y--•--••---~..,--,,__.., 
SCOTTSDALE 6 
Scottsdale Mall • 299-6063 
, End of Days  (PG-13)  
[1:10] 4:10 700 9:SO  
'Deuce Bigalo: Male Gigolo  (PG-13)  
[1:20] 4:20 7:20 'U0  
·  Bone Collector  (PG-13)  
[ I :50] 4:40 7: IO  l0:05  

UNO 

Scream 3 (R) Digital , [12:10 2:511] 5JO 8:10 11):45 [1:40! 4:20 7:(Xl 9:45 
The Tiggcr Movie (G) Digit::u 112:05 2:(Xl] 4:00 6::l0 8:30 [l:IXl .HJO/ 5·!0 7:15 
Snow Day (PC) Digital 
112::SO 2:401 5:(X) 7:25 9:40 
[ 130] 4: I() 6:40 9:(X) 
Stuart Little (PG) Digital i I12:20 2:45] 5:40 Next Friday (R) Digual 8:00 l0:20 
The G~n Mile (R) Digital 
[12:4()/ 4:25 8:15 The Hurricane (R) Digital ; 
lJ:.m 
ONLY $1 00 All Shows Before 6 pm 
• Eveiyone • Everyday 

Anna and the King (PG-13) [1:30] 4:50 8:00 
The World l~ Not Enough (R) 
[ I :CX)J 4:00 6:50 9:40 
Double Jeopardy (R) 
1I:40J 4:30 no 9:55 
Frid11y, February 18, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS · page 19 
MEN'S TRACK 
Irish have eyes on Big East Championship title 
JOO points. long jump, so maybe he can pass
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
"This year, I wouldn't bo sur­through. He's going to have to Assisr.,nr Sports Editor 
prised if the top three teams buckle down. That's what being 
were within 10 poinl'>. tt distanr.e a senior is all about." 
After plar,ing second each of runner Luke Watson said. "We Wray and senior Tim Kober the past three sf\asons. Lhe certainly think I.hat we're in a should pace the IrLc;h in the 500­men's track and fip,ld squa.d good position to win. I know meter run. hopes this is the year it finally we're capable of it. We certainly "To win it, nothing else," Wray comes out on top in the Big East have the ta.lent to win. It's just a said of his goals. 'Tm really not Indoors Championships. matter of putting it all together -eoncerned v.'ith anyone else. I'm 
"This is the best chance we've on the same day. I think we have pretty much determined. I'm had to win it in a long tinrn," an advantagf\ in the sprints. We going to have to run the best junior sprintPr TPrry Wray said. need to maintain and match race of my lite, but I think I'm in "So a bunch of pt\oplP. are rnally them in the distance and jumps, shape to do it" pumped about it. Our sprint and then beat them in the Kober will also be a leading rnrps is rrmlly strong this year. sprints." contender for Notre Dame in the W,· ju::;t feel very good and rnally The Irish sprint squad is par­800-meter run. strong right now." tkularly strong. Leading the way Senior Phil Mishka scored 
Tlw Irish n\turn the core of are returning Big East r:hampi­breakthrough performances in their rumrnr-up team from 1999. o ns Chris Cochran and the 800-meter run flarlier this with thP eX!'Pption of AII­Marshaun West. both seniors. year. but will compete in the Anwrican pole vaulter MikP "All of them are key events 1000-meter run this weekend. Brown. But to rnme away with a because we have people who are '"It'll be intf\resting to see what victory. athletes will rn~ed to post going in there who are, if not Phil Mishka ran do in the 1000," ttw b(~st pl•rl'ormann\S of' thr.ir lnading the events, at !fiast in the Piane said. "I think he can win livrs. top two or three going in thflfl'1," it." 
"I think it's krw fhr <'Wrv nvent sprints coarh John Millar said. For the distance crew, Watson to go wl'!I." field events· coach "So wn·n, hoping that they'll and junior All-American Ryan Scott Windsor s11id. 'Tm nnt pPrl'orm at the level tlH:y're Shav should compete for titles. quit<' ronvinrPd that w<' hav<' the capable or so they can score Watson will compete in the mile ur'plh that som<' of tlw other sonw big points." and the 3,000-meter run, while srhools .in tlw Big Fast have. Cochran won the 400-metr,r Shay aims for victory in the \Vp'rc going to havn to havn a dash al Lhc Big Easl Outdoors 3.000 and !J,O{lO-meter runs. iwrh'(:t nwPt. frankly. for us to Championships a year ago. and "Being my first meet, it's really win it on tlw nH'n\; sid('_ \,Yc'n, will attempt to win lhe race hard to establish goab," Shay going to have lo havP pPople indoors this weekend. Cochran is said. "I want to win; I just don't sll·p up and g1•t sonw PHs lpt'r­on the verge of qualifying f'or the know if I'm physically r:apable of sonal n•i·ordsl /'or tis to b1· in NCAA Jndllors Champion-ships. doing that this weekend. I defi­that nwd." II<' will also head the list of Irish nitely think I'm capable of being son placed fourth in the Big East senior Jesse Masloski and fresh­Olh<'r Hig 1'.asl t<•ams will l'orcP competitors in th!' GO-meter in the top three in the 5,000." 
Indoors Champ-ionships a sea­man Nathan Cahill in an attempttill' Irish to push to tlw limit. dash. Shay suffered an injury prior son ago with his hurl of 58 feet, to make up for the loss of"I would say that tlw major West. an All-Anrnri<'an long to the first meet of the season, 3 1/4 inches in thr, weight throw. Brown.

comp1·tition will ,·onw from jumper and 200-meter Big East and the Big East will mark his Fellow thrower Derek Dyer is "We don't have a Mike BrownCPorgetown or Connp1•ticut. and indoor champion a year ago, is first competition of' the season. 
Notre Dame's best chance for in the pole vault, but what we dothpy'n• both Pxc·plknl Learns." cornpPting for Llw first time sinc:e "It's a bell of a meet to start points in the shot put. have is three vaulters who canhP1~d Lrui'k and liPld roach Jo<, injuring his hamstring last with, but he'll do fine," Piane "I don't believe he [Thompson] score and hopefully score prettyl'ia1w said. "\:Vp havP to hit on all month. said. "We don't have any other has thrown his best this year," well," Winsor said. 

major cylindPrs to have a "This is his first mcet back choice. We can't not run him. 
Winsor said. "I have four guys in The Irish will also enter teamsrhanr<'. Tlw mPn and women sine«' his hamstring pulled, but We gain nothing by not running the weight throw, and hopefully, in the distance medley relay, thethat ran srorP nPPd to scorP." hP·s looked very good in prac­him" we can get them all through to 4x400-meter relay and theIt may bl' a rlose r.ornp<'Lilion tice." Windsor said. "Ile's run­In Lhe field ev(ents, the men the finals." 4x800-meter relay. 

li,r t!w championship as opposed ning tlrn 200 at the sarnr. time as have no sure contenders for vic­Sophomore Quill Redwine is a "The last two relays could getlo last yPar. wlwn Georgetown tlw long jump. We're hoping he tors besidos Wnst in the long key competitor in the high jump really exciting, because I knowloppPd NotrP Damn by about can hit a big one early in the jump. llowever, they have a and triple jump. Georgr,town's got good teams 
s o I i d 
"Quill Redwine is another key, entered, and so does Connecticut 
S LI p · 
I think," Windsor said. "I think and so do we." Watson said. "It
porting 
he's going to have to step it up in could come down to the last two 
cast. 
the triple jump, and also score events."
Senior some points in the high jump." The meet begins Saturday
:vtatt 
In the pole vault, Notre Dame morning in Syracuse, N.Y.. andThomp· will enter sophomore Josh Heck, continues through Sunday. 
cinema@thesnite
' 
"THE BEST FILM OF THE YEAR." 
•Bonnie Churchill -NATIONAL NEWS SYNDICATE 

.:;·::· . 
'--,, ,,·, .' ,p;., •· 
AL PACINO RUSSELL CROWE

Opening Exhibit:iOI'l.;a.1:' t:l::i;e,n,:e.~, ' ,·,· Raclin Gallery 0£ :Norre Dal".ne'•'i-,,tsroryil" 
THE INSIDER 
VISIT 'THE INSIDER' ON THE WEB AT WWW.THEINSIDER.MOVIES.COM 

PARTOF~NfTWORK ­
Touchstone Distributed by BUENA VISTA PICTURES DISTRIBUTION C TOUCHSTONE PICTURES PictureS 
Fri. & Sat. 6:45 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. 
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/~cothweb 




page 20 The Obm·ver . SPORTS Friday, rebruary 18, 2000 HOCKEY 
Notre Dame looks for victory at Bowling Green 
By MATT OLIVA 
Spore, Wrirt:1 
The lrh;h hockey team (13­15-6, Hl-1)-5 CCII.'\) remains in the fifth and final home­playoff position spot as they visit <' o n I'1· rt' n 1'. <i rival Bowling CrPPn t13-13-0. 10­12-0) this ·w1wkeud. 
They hold a onP-point lead over Ferris Stat!· after split­ting last weekend's series with Nebraska-Omaha. Bow.ling Gnrnn enters the series holding on to 9th place in the CCHA standings. 
This will mark the second straight year that the Irish head into the traditional late-season Bowling Green series on the bubble for a home-ice playoff opener. The Irish dropµtid one game last year, which forced a final series with '.'Jorthern Michigan to dt><·ide the play­off positioning. 
The kev to Notre Darn(' 's success is its powPrplay. Tlw Irish arP 11-8-4 when scor­ing Oil!' µowrr-play goal. 7­1-1 vvhPn s1·01•ing two. and 2­7-1 w Ill, n s 1· l) ,· in g no n e . l\,olre Dam<'" µ1•n:1mtagp or power-play goals lo overall goals l'.i6 to s:-p ranks as thP third-highPst in thP CCIIA (.434). with 17 ol' ND's last 30 goals l'oming on the PP ( 566). including in their 7-4 \Vin on Saturdav. With all the recent success: the Irish are avc;raging nearly one power­play goal pP,r xame. but have only been able to score an averag(1 or ·1. 5 even-strength goals. 

Despite their powerplay success. Notrn Dame is onr. of thti CCHA's lowest scoring teams. Thev do have one of the leaguP,'s top scoring !'ivc­somcs all in the CCHA's top 40 scorers. Dan Carlson, Joe Ousbabek, Hyan Dolder. Brn Simon. and David Inman all have scored more than 20 points this season. Only Michigan hus morr players that have totaled 20 points. 
The lrish have relied on tlrnir defense for their suc­cess this season bPc:ausr of their low scoring totals. The pPnalty-kil/ing unit has shut out !lrnir oppo1rnnt on 15 of the last 10 powerplay rhann,s, spanning three> ganrns. The defense has allowHd only 32 powerplay goals on I <)1 chanci•s this yc,1r !'or u .168 opponPnt 
averagn. 
Adding to the ct <d'i, 11 s e's success has been Lhe limiled number of shot that th,1y have given recent opponents. In thf' last Pight games, Notre Dame has outshot its opponent. in seven gam<'s and tied them in the other. During this stretch the aver­age shot totals have favored the Irish :-36-22, while the Irish have posted a 5-2-1 record. 
The rreshmen Irish players emerged in last Saturday's gamt1 to contribute eight points against UNO. Michael Chin has four goals and four assists in his last seven games, and all six of his goals have come in the last 15 games. Ile has scored Lhc most goals by a freshman and trails Connor Dunlop (2 goals-11 assists) by only une point for most points by an Irish freshman. Del'enscman Evan Nielsen added one goal and two assists last weckfrnd to pass senior Tyson Fraser as the toµ scoring defnnse­mun. with 12 points (4 goals, 8 assists). 
The Irish b0gin their two­gam<' SP ries with Howling GrePn tonight at 7:35 p.m. Notre Dame will rPturn for tlrnir last honw garnt1 nt1xt wt>ckend against Michigan Stall1 in the homP and home snries to conclude the rngu­lar S<'ason. 
NHL 

Lehtinen recovering from surgery 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 
Dallas Stars wing Jere Lehtinen will bt> out six wee ks after he underwent surgery Thursday on his broken right ankle. 
Lehtinen was injured Ort. 16 and then missf•d 30 games before rdurning on Dec. 31. He played eight games brfore the anklP started bothering him again and has been out of the past 11 games. 
Lehtinen could have opted to continue playing, but hav­

ing surgery now incrnasns his chanrns or returning at full strength for the playoffs. 
The plan is for him to play again on April 2. when five games will remain in the reg­ular season. 
"lt's benn a tough time." Lehtinen said. "I felt like I could play, but I just did not feel good enough. r didn't lrnvi~ anv conlldence. At least now, I ,;an comr1 back strong for the playoffs." 
Lehtinen made the decision after being examined by Dr. Bill Hamilton in New York. 
Team doctor Dun Cooper performed the surgery at 
BIG EAST TOURNAMENT March 10-11, 2000 
Included Features 1-nlght at The Holiday Inn Broadway Tickets to SEMI FINALS (3.10) & FINALS (3.11) at Madison Square Garden, New York City Full American breakfast at the hotel Admission to the Empire State Building All taxes & service charges DATTCO Representative 
Cost Per Person $259 Double $349 Single Child w/2-adults $159 

For Information 6 Reseivations DATICO TOUR & TRAVEL 583 South Street, New Britain, CT 06051 1-800-229-4879, ext. 600 
Baylor Medical Center. 
"It's not strong 1rnough !'or him to parti!'ipat11 at tho level he wants to," Stars trainer Dave Surpr<rnant said. "Nobody has a reason why it hasn't healed." 
C;LASS 

MARY CALASHfThe Observer Freshman center Connor Dunlop and the Irish head to Bowling Green looking to keep their playoff hopes alive this weekend. 
ATTENTION JUNIORS AT 
TURTLE CREEK 
APARTMENTS: 
DON'T FORGET To ­
PURCHASE YOUR PARKING PASS FOR JPW!! 
~OVlf~IL 
ELEC;TIOlfS 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN RUNNING FOR CLASS COUNCIL 
' 
INCLUDING OFF-CAMPUS CO-PRESIDENTS AND SENATOR
' 
SHOULD ATTEND AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING .... 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 20 AT 6:00 PM IN THE MONTGOMERY THEATRE IN LAFORTUNE 
31 yo,. No 141tt1tllo to t1lto1td, plot1sa eo1tlt1d 8ae4y Da,,.40, 'J,tdlelt1I 0014111:II VP ol eeoetio1ts t1t l•lt666 01 doHt/lo.2 
~ brouglt to you by Judie.ta~ Cou~c.i[ 


This year Notro Dame looks By RACHEL PROTZMAN lO repeat its 1999 stellar per-Sports Wmcr f'orman1'.P. :-t'nd it is expe('tf'd 
Lo. having b<inn chosen in a 
The iooo Irish softball poll of confcrenrn coaches Lo team will kirk off its season finish first again in the Big this weekend as tlw women Hast. travel to t.h(• Linivnrsity of Th11 Irish secured eight of Nevada ·s I.as Vegas ninr. l'irst-placc votes, finish-Tournanwnl. ing with (J4 points. 11 morn 
NolrP l)anw will play a than No. 2 Boston College. totul or livn ol' tlw I(, pa.rtic-The Irish lead off the three­ipating warns. dav tournamont against 
Head coach Liz MillPr. now Portland Statl-) Friday morn-in her f)ighth coaching season ing. Finishing at 12-37 last at Notr" Damn. has high sP.ason. the Vikings have yet expectations !'or Lim opPner to face Notrn Dame in C"ompc­this wiwknn<l Lilion. 
"Hight now w1• sc•L very Notre Dame plays Southern high goals for uursl~lvr•s, ·• she Utah next. said. "W<• lixpn<:l lo go and Th<• Thunderbirds. ending win evNv ganw." last VPar at 10-48 and 
ThP lrfsli art• wming off of rcturr{ing _just three~ of lheir a 42-20 rPcord lasL SNLson, 11in<1 starters, ar,, currently with an urHlPl'nawd r:onl'Pr-0-2. cnce perl'ormane<\. Saturday morning the Irish 
NolrP Dami' grabbP.d its urP slated to !'ace Oregon. first Big I1ast <'hampionship The Ducks surnd at 4-1 in the last vt>ar bPl'on· a<lvanring to ;woo season. losing only Lo NCA:,\ HPg-io1rnls w!rnr1• th,iy fifth-ranked Soullrnrn dcfrut1•d fil'th-rnnknd Mississippi. Mir.higan bt'l'ort• falling lo Tlwv l'inished last yr,ar at NPbrn.ska in (•xtrn innings. 40-29. af'tPr advancing lo thP 
-----.---:--~:--~,:---~---~~:--~:::~-.----, th is season as freshmen 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents
"H L. t t B th ' 
ow to lS en O ee oven S Last Piano Sonata" 

I 

A Lecture/Recital by 
•, '\ 

Ethan Haimo
r .. \ 
Professor of Music University of Notre Dame 
2:00 pm, Sunday, February 20, 2000 Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge 
Free and open to the public. For more information, call 631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/-music. 
"Miami is a bona fide top 25

INTERESTED IN STUDENT 
team" Bavliss said. "We'd love 
to take ad~antage of the fact that 
they are here and playing

GOVERNMENT? 


Become the I1..e:x:t ~si_sta.,I1..t ~t-..d..eIJ..t ._od..y T:rea.,s-..re:r 
-Great resume builder -Meet new people -Work with the '\Shirt Project" 
SPECIALIZING ill B'ALIAN CUISINE 
Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest

Learn about the Student Business 
Prepared by Francesco and Family An Authentic Taste of Italy Most Romantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
Board 
Welcome Junior Parents! 
Hout•s; 
1213 Lincolnway West 
Mun.-Tlmrs 4-:00-10:00 p.m. 
Mishawaka
Fri.&Sat. 4:00-11 :00 p.m. 
( Frw,cesco was chefat ND for 30 years)
Sun. 4:30-7:00 p.m. 

SOFTBALL 
MEN'S TENNIS 
No. 29 ND aims for 

Irish open season in Las Vegas 
NCAA Regionals and grab­bing the No. 25 national 
two home victories 
indoors. They arc a good team, and it is a pretty spirited rival­ry." 
The Hur, ::anes come into this weekend :, battle against the Irish with a sparkling 5-0 record. recently claiming wins over 36th-ranked Alabama and 67th­ranked South Alabama. Miami holds a tight lead over the Notre Dame in the all-time series 6-5. but the recent consistently solid play of the Irish could lead to an evening out of the overall series. 
Seventeenth-ranked senior and Irish captain Hyan Sachire will again lead the Irish at No. 1 singles this weekend, looking to continue a successful spring sea­son that began with a quarterfi­nal showing at the Rolex National Intercollegiate Indoor Championships in beginning of the month. Sachire will be fol­lowed by sophomores Casey Smith. Taborgo, Talarico, Laflin and freshman Brian l<arrell, while the services of Dalv. who's shoulder injury has im.proved. still remain in question. 
The Irish lineup might see a little shake-up with injured senior and No. 2 singles player Matt Daly questionable for the weekend matches. Freshman Brian Farrell has been filling in for Daly in the No. 6 position, posting two straight victories before falling to Ohio State oppo­nent Bob Wellstein. 
Sophomore Aaron Talarico has 
been a constant force to be reck­
oned with for Irish opponents, 
dropping just 11 games in his 
last three singles matches at No. 
4 singles. In his first full season 
in the singles lineup. Talarico 
has played a large role in locking 
up the recent wins for the Irish. 
His 6-0, 6-1 thrashing of Edo 
Bawono of Kentucky gave Notre 
Dame a 2-0 lead in the matchup, 
while his victory over Vincent Ng 
of Ohio State was crucial in lead­
ing the Irish to a win. 
Talarico has also teamed up 
with sophomore Javier Taborga 
to form a formidable doubles 
team that now stands 53rd in 
the rankings. They have tallied a 
9-5 record, including a 3-0 mark 
against ranked teams with wins 
over a 14th-ranked New Mexico 
team and a 36th-ranked Ohio 

State team. .,} 
ranking. With a 1-1 history against the Ducks, Notre Dame looks Lo grab the upper hand. 
f<ollowing a 6-2 loss in the 1999 season, Notre Dame looks to get revenge against UC-Santa Barbara Saturday afternoon. UCSH stands at 3­1 in the 2000 sea.son. 
The Irish end weekend play against Utah. 
The Utes. picked to finish first in the Mountain West Conference, arr currently 0-3 after the Fiesta Bowl Tournament last weekend. 
The Irish. although lacking senior leadership, have returned seven starters, including 1999 Big East pitcher of the year, Jennifer Sharron, and 1999 Big.East player of the year, shortstop. Melani1>. Alkire. 
Also returning from th1: all­Big East Team are outfielders Lizzy Lemin~ and Jennifer KriPch. 
Notre Dame has a new 
defensive look in thr, infield 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Spores Wricer 
Two more matches and two more wins. That's the goal at hand for the 2 9 t h ­
ranked Irish this weekend as they match­up against Wisconsin on Friday at 4 p.m. and 32nd­

r a n k e d Sachire M i a m i (Fla.) on Sunday at 12 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The 4-2 Notre Dame squad is in the middle of a successful homestand that has included impressive wins over Kentucky and Ohio State. but the focus of the Irish remains fixed on putting more victories in the win column by way of a little fine­tuning, 
"We'd like to continue win­ning," Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. "And we are going to try to tighten up some of the areas we are soft on." 
The Badgers of Wisconsin. who pose the first test for the Irish, enter the week with a 2-1 record following a 4-3 loss to the DePaul Blue Demons and are lead by senior David Chang and sophomore Scott Rutherford, who rank 42nd in doubles. Notre Dame has claimed victory in the last eight meetings with the Badgers, giving them a 38-16 lead in the overall series. 
Sunday's matchup against the Miami Hurricanes might stand as a tougher obstacle for the Irish, who barely defeated the Big East rival in a memorable 4­3 victorv over the Hurricanes in the 1999 Big East Championship. Miami has garnered a wealth of talent over the offseason. pir.king up 88th-ranked Tomas Smid from Kentucky, Michael Lang from Georgia. and Peter Hoffman from Florida International. 
Andrea Loman, Alexis 
Madrid and Andria Bledsoe 
are slated to start at first, second and third bases, respectively, while sopho­
more Jarrah Myers moves from third base to catcher. Joining Lemire and Kriech 
in  the  outfield  is  junior  
Danielle Klayman,  a  return­ 
ing starter.  

The Irish, yel to get out­doors this vear, face teams that have already started the 2000 season. 
"We have a little catching up to do, but we don't let that be their advantage. It doesn't· hold us back," Miller said. "We need to go out there and play our game." 


. r 

Friday, February 18; 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
. -· ---------­

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 18, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 5 Irish head into battle against No. 8 Knights 
By KERRY SMITH 
Assistant Sporrs Edirm 

Big East action heats up this W(~ekend wlH:n the Irish travRl to ButgMs to take on the Scar!t,t Knights Saturday. 
The No. 8 Knights will l:ie the touglwst rnmprtition the Irish havr l'ac(id so far this season. 
But the Irish ,trP llp for the challenge. 
The Irish proved Wednesday that thry arP more than readv !'or the last leg of the rPgtda.·r season with an 18-point win ovor the Villanova Wildcats. 
"It was a gTi•at tl'st to play a veq challr-nging team." said poinl guard Mele Ivey. "\Ve came out very aggres­sive and wr're ready to play. EvRrvone knew their role and played accordingly." 
Villanova. which has proved to be a nwnace in the Big East this season with big upsets ovt)r ranked teams like Boston College and Rutgers. didn't have the strength to 1·.ount<>r the pow­erful 1\'otre Danw squud. 
Like thf' Wildcats. the Knights play thf' slowdown game. Fronting a low-scoring and patient ofl"Pnse, the Knights havH worked their 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

"Rutgers is such a great team. Mle've heen making everything more intense in practice. The team is focusing more and getting excitedfiJr the game." 
Niele Ivey Irish point guard 

wav to a 17-:i record and the thi;,d spot in the ronfen~ncc rankings. 
"We have to focus hard and prnpare for llutgers," said Ivey. "Hutgcrs is surh a great Learn. We 'vc b('C n making 1wcrythini-; more int('nsn in practice ThP team is focus­ing more and getting excited for tlw game.·· 
Tht' slowdown game <'an hurt tlrn Irish, a team that likns to run the J'loor and cap­italizl' on the fast break. so the Irish plan to set the pace ol' thl' game l'rom the opening tip off Saturday. 
130th the Irish and the Knights like tu give the ball to the post. 
Irish center Hu th Hiley. will find ht>r match in· the Knight's Tammy Sutton­Brown. The junior went 11­
15 from the field. scoring a gamr-high 22 points in thn Knight's last outing aguinst Syracuse Tuesday. 
With a stingy defense, the Knights have held 12 of' their opponents to 51 points or !Pss this season. 
Thn Irish plan to spread tlrnir scoring powf'r under the basket and behind the arc. Along with Hiley, Kelley Si0mon has stepped up tbis sf'ason to help the Irish in the paint. Th11 junior forward averages o,·er seven points and five rebounds a game. 
In thP Irish buckcourt. the trio of Niele lvcv, Danielle Gnwn and Alicia ·Hatay have dominatPd opponrrnts all sPa­son with sharp shouting and tough defense. 
All thrr.e average double­digit scuring f'or the Irish. 
With their pyes on the Big East tournament and beyond·, the Irish are set for a Lough set of games beginning with 11utgcrs and ending with Connectitcut next weekend. 
"There arc ;~ lot of' competi­tive teams and Wfl"re excited for the challrrng11." said Ivey. 
The Knights hold a 6-5 edge in their series with the frish. The Irish have come away with a victory only once out of five contests with the Knights at Hutgers. 


Third-ranked Georgia staves off Kentucky, 73-69 
Associated Press 

LEXI~GTON. Kv. 
Kelly Miller sr,orPd 23 points and D,iana Nolan added 14. including two free throws in the final moments, as No. 3 Georgia held off Kentucky 73-69 on Thursday night. 
Miller was 9-for-14 from the field. including 2-of-4 from 3­point range. and I\Jo!an hit 5-of­10 shots as the Lady Bulldogs (25-2. 10-1 Southeastern Conference) won their 11th straight game. 
Erica .Jarkson scored 19 points. Tiffany Wait 15 and Laura Meadows 11 for the Wildcats (12-11. 4-7), who have lost six of their last seven 

• 



inter Lease 
.y~ .' 


ganws. 
Kentucky trailed by as many as 14 points in the sernnd half. but cut the deficit to two with 58 seconds LO play. Following Coco 
· ~1iller·s miss . .Jackson drove to the baseline but stepped out of bounds with 11 sernnds 
remaining. 
Nolan Lhen hit two free throws with nine seconds to play to snal the game for the Lady Bulldogs. who arc one victorv awuv from equaling their· regu·­lar-season record. 
Trailing 38-25 at half­time. Kentucky opened the second half with a 9-2 run lo cut the margin to 40-34. 
Gnorgia took its biggest lead of onlv six at 60-54. the game. 58-44. on Kelly "(be Lady Bulldogs led 69-62 Miller·s 3-pointer midway with 2:40 to play. but Kentucky through the second half'. again fought back and pulled 
A Hl-2 rnn. capped by back­within 71-69 on Jackson's steal to-back 3-pointers by Wait and and layup with 58 seconds to Jackson, again cut the margin to play. 
The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures Lecture Series continues with 
The Art of the 

Georgia shot 52 percent for the game (30-of-58) and scored 23 points off 21 Kentucky turnovers. The Wildcats shot only 43 percent (25-of-58) but made 5-of-9 from 3-point range and l 4-of-17 frne throws. 

Mask: Introduction to the Masque Characters in the Co111media dell'Arte 

a lecture/performance by 
Mace Perlman 
classically-trained actor and mime 
8 p.m. Monday, February 21st Hesburgh Library Auditorium Admission is free. 
Co-sponsored by the Devers Program in Dante Studies and the Italian Club 

Friday, February 18, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
TOM KEELEY 


Fox TROT 
CURSE THAT ICAFKA! \-iE 'FILLED M't' \-iE.AO WIT\-i At.L SORTS OF FALSE \-ioPES! 

Qc 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 "Le Fifre" artist 42 "Count 1 Six French 27 Becomes 43 Wanted letters kings twisted 
44 Prefix with 8 Cheese dish tropic
29 One of the 

1 
15 Had 100 or Andrews Sisters 45 Prop in a Wild more West show 
30 Breathless 17 One stirring up 46 Noted storyteller 
1 31 Howled
trouble for 49 "Don't rush me!"
management 32 Whence the line "The meek shall 50 They may be
18 Darts 
inherit the earth" half or full 
19 City on the Aire 
51 Like elbows, 20 "Grand Ole sometimes 
34 Elbows on the 
table

Opry" airer 37 Way to get a job
21 Philosophy 
DOWN
subjects 38 Regular and long 1 There's one on
22 Level 
most coins 23 Glen Gray & the 
39 Seasonal 1 Casa_ serving 2 Arrests 
Orchestra 3 Slips and such 
40 Like some 

1 
24 _ Fail (Irish muscles 4 Holds up coronation 
41 Aquino's 5 Reply to "That a 
stone) 
successor in the fact?" 25 House coat Philippines 
6_Xing 7 Ranker 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 College leader 
N U B A C M E 9 Take for I S E S H I N 10 So-and-sos T A B 11 In-flight 
announcement, for short 12 Stopped talking 
leaves 

16 Winners get them 
22 Philately A L A ..,....-,.-+-,-.....,,, T T Y collection D E R N ---1---+---i O O N 23 Not so tough S 0 D A M U T E N N E 25 Shorty: Var. 

26 Noted pyramid  36 Glossed over  44 Sunshine  
builders  38 Places of art  Biscuits brand  
28 Beaver's nearest relative 29 Big clubs  41 Copa! or mastic 42 Mediterranean  45 Pseudologist 47 They may be civil: Abbr.  
31 Antitank  tourist  48 And that's not  
weapons  destination  -all  
32 Perfect role  
model  

Answers to any three clues in this puule33 Washington are available by touch-tone phone: address 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute). 
34 Charades, 
Annual subscriptions are available for the basically 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 35 Rotten years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
BILL AMEND 
I THOUGHT I'D WAl<E UP 
l\'i. A Gll\NT INSECT! fl,. COCICRoACH! A DUN<; 
BEETLE! l'IOT SoMETHING P,.S HIOEotJS P,.S Tl-4\S! 
'01J 


" i
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD j 
YA Kl'-lcv\/. BEFORE THIS '(EAR~ 
/'D HAVE NEVE!<-THoUG\-lT A e,ax op HA'?HtP POTATOES CCCLt;> 6E" A WHcLE WEEK JS WORTH OP FOCD-., 


.. 
The joys of living off campus. 
beam 1 @nd edu 
HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Molly Ringwald, Vanna White, Yoko Ono, Matt Dillon, Helen Gurley Brown, Jack Palance, John Travolta, Cybill Shepherd, Roberto Baggio, Juice Newton 
Happy Birthday: Your hard work will start to pay off as you move into a key position in your chosen field. You will dazzle those who have fol­lowed your progress over the years, and you will impress those who have recently discovered what you are all about. Stand tall and present everything you have to offer. Much can be gained this year if you follow through. Your numbers: 12, 17, 22, 26, 31, 36 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Put money into personal investments. Change your self-image. Take the time to listen to children and older relatives. Creative projects should tum out well. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your attitude will be optimistic. Use your genuine wannth and affection to let others know you care. You can make contributions to i;roups if you use your uncanny insight. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can accomplish a great deal if you work quietly behind the scenes. Try to spend time with loved ones who ~ersonal or health problems. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Group or organizational activities will be most rewarding. Your ability to help others will not go unnoticed. Romance will develop through the company you keep. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): High energy at work will bring advance­ment and/or recognition. You can make changes in your personal life 
EUGENIA LAST 
regarding your domestic situation or social status. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Deception involving in-laws or so­called friends may be somewhat upsetting for you today. You will do well if you concentrate on organiza­tional functions. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Look into making residential changes. A move may improve your emotional outlook. New friendships will be solid and lasting. Join groups that can provide you with mental stimu­lation. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): New romantic encounters will develop through peers or while attending seminars. YoUI communication skills will be magnified, aiding you in attracting new lovers. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
211: Work quietly behind the scenes where you can accomplish the mo5t. You may find that stomach problems will prevail if you haven't dealt with the stress in your life. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Social activity in your home will be entertaining. Think about inviting those individuals who can provide you with the intellectual stimulation you require. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You can make positive changes in your home environment. New equipment that will make your do­mestic duties easier will pay off. 
000 

PlSCES (Feb. 19-March 20): New .. romantic encounters will develop through travel or educational pur­suits. You may find that more than one individual is interested in you personally. 000 
Birthday Baby: You will attract a lot of attention over the years. Your charm and good looks will capture the interest of everyone who comes in contact with you. You'll always take on too much and overspend unless taught from a ycnmg age to be prudent. 
(Need advice? Clieck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialasLcom, astromate.com.) 

-
0 200) Univenal Press Syndicate 



Reaching High 

/lutlt Riley and the No. 5 Irish trauel to New jersey lo s 
take on No. 8 Rutgers in Big East conference action. 
page 22

PORTS 
page 24 
Friday, February 18, 2000 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

> .... 
I 
i ~ 
-
..,. 
Irish make big splash at Big East championship 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sainr Mary's editor 
UNIOI\DALE. N.Y. 
/\ fourth Big East confer­ence championship titl1-i is a nt>ar-certaintv in tlw l\oll'e Dame women's swimming and diving team's future after ending d,iy one of rnm­petiti on over 100 points ahead of the closest competi­tor. 
Advancing 1:1 swimmers to finals and breaking three conl'ercnre records in the proc()ss. th!! Notr<' Dame squad emerged the undisput­ed favorite in the meet. Perennial conf'erPnce strengths Pittsburgh. Villanova and Miami strug­gled to put points on the board throughout the day. 
"This is probably more than we expected in terms of position." said head coach Bailey Weathers. "A lot of teams did not have as good of a dav as we did. But we still h,tve a lot to improve 
on. 
Stwking status as the first Notrr Danw team to win four ronsecutive conference rhampionships. a major fal­ter by the team would be necPssary to narrow the lead. Regardless. Weathers will not guarantee a virtory this early in the competition. 
"[To say I am con riden t in our victory! is a foolish thing to do." Weatlwrs said. "We have to stay focused and make sure WP don't let down. Maintaining intensity is always a challenge going into 
see IRISH/page 17 


MEN'S SWIMMING 

Swimmers race into third place at conference championship 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Sporrs Writer 
UNIONDALE, NY. 
Between the linish of prelim­inary races and finals last Thursday, the Notre Dame mon's swimming team rPvived a team saying that helped them finish the first day of competi­tion at the Big East Conference Championship in third plare behind defending r:hampion Pittsburgh in first place and Rutgrrs in srcond plaC!~. 
The Notre Dame men fin­ished just 12 points behind Rutgers with 134 points. 
"Then~ is a saying on our team that there is a difference between just swimming events and racing events," said Tim Welsh. men's swimming co,tch. "Har,ing events is n'wre diffi­cult. This morning we were swimming well. but we wernn't racing. This meet is about rac­ing and that's what we r.ame to du tonight." 

Finals saw Irish swimmers times become faster after a slow start in morning prelimi­nary races. Junior Hyan Verlin improved his time in the 200­yard individual medley with a time or l minute, 54.3:i sec­onds. a significant increase over his preliminary time of 
1:54.98. Verlin finished 10th overall in the event. John Luker. a senior competing in 
the 500-yard freestyle, improved his time from 
4:57 .32 to a time in finals of 4:34.40, giving him a t!-mth place overall finish in the event. 
The performance ol' sopho­more Jonathan Pierce in the 500-yard l'reeslyle found him cutting his time for the final race and setting a personal record and breaking a Universitv record in the event. Pierce finished with a time of 
4:30.96 compared to a prelimi­nary time of 4:33.48, giving him a second place overall fin­ish in the freestyle event. 
Welsh credited his swimmers in freestyle events with helping the Irish achieve their third place finish at the end of Thursday's competition. 
"Jonathan's performance really set the tone for the evening," said Welsh. "We've count1!d on our distance freestylers all year to set the tone and they did it again tonight." 
Adjustments made betwe1m preliminaries and linals helped the Irish finish the day strong. 
"We went faster this evening than at preliminaries and we achieved that by racing more aggressively and faster at each point during each race," said Welsh. "That was our objective improved times, said Verlin. 
tonight  as a team,  to  race  
faster."  
Increased  focus  led  to  

"It was a case of us realizing after this morning that we started off swimming slow and we started off sluggish," said Verlin. "The result was that we refocused for tonight's races. We were not mentally in it this rnornmg. 
Team captain Hay Fitzpatrick agreed. 
"Physically, we were fine. Mentally. we were just a little off," said Fitzpatrick. "Tonight we had better focus that we will carry on throughout the rest of the meet.'" 
Welsh also credited his team's performance to having 
see SWIM/page l 8 


vs. Wiscor1sin Track and field at Rutgers
(W··
Swimming and diving i Friday, 3:15 p.m. at Big East Championships '"" Saturday, 12 p.m.
~

SPORTS •at Big East Championships • 
Syracuse, N.Y. ATA Uniondale, N.Y. Sarurday and Sunday Today through Saturday at Bowling Green at Seton Hall 
"' 
~· SMC vs. Adrian ..... 
friday, 7:35 p.m. Saturday, 9 p.m. 
ra
Saturday, 3 p.m.

GLANCE ---~ w 




