

Flying high 
Curbing underage drinking 
On a three-game winning streak. will the Irish 

Friday
In light ofthe recent bust at Finnegan ·s, The 
soar into the contest with Air Force and pass 
Observer editorial suggests one solution to the 
with flying colors? Check inside for details. 
problem of underage drinking. 
OCTOBER 27, 
Irish Insider 
Viewpoint . page 16 
2000 
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
V NO. 43 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Ushering in the end of an era 
Stadium usher hired by Rockne at age 12 to retire after 60 years at ND 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Writer 
At the end of the football season, one man will retire after 60 years of greeting Notre Dame fans eager to see Fighting Irish teams battle opponents on the field. 
Victor Couch, 86, started working as an usher when Knute Rockne hired him in -1926 to usher in Cartier Field at age 
12. Although Couch was not old enough to usher when Notre-Dame Stadium was erected in 1930, Couch was hired as a stadium usher in 1941 after a few years on the waitlist. Since then Couch has remained on the 850-member team of stadium ushers, waking up every football Saturday-for his part-time job at Notre Dame. 
"He's sort of a fixture at Notre Dame like the Golden Dome 


candidate Joe Lieberman's strong faith and the syna­
I~CAMPAIGN 2000..,, I According Washington, D.C.. Clinton only recent­
in Judaism has raised concerns from gogues on the 
to the poll, ly established her residency in New 
NEWS ANALYSES 


Lieberman's Jewish faith concerns some voters 
the way that he can handle the affairs of 
By HELENA PAYNE 
a vice president on the Sabbath. 
News Wrirer 
"He.. recognizes in this Orthodox 
Jewish community that there are people 
Though polls have shown that the vice that hold higher standards of obser­presidential pick of the candidate rarely vances than he does," said Signer. affects voters· choices in presidential Observant Jews rarely venture beyond elections, Democratic vice presidential their homes 
voters who wonder what impact his Sabbath and faith will have on the nation. usually avoid 
"I think that there are people that using modern modes of' transportation probably have profound suspicion of among other things. Lieberman because of his .Judaism," However, Lieberman, the senator of said Rabbi Michael Signer, University Connecticut for eight years, has often theology professor. fulfilled certain senatorial duties on the 
Signer said that Lieberman refers to Sabbath if necessary. himself as an "observant Jew," which is "He will walk to the Senate to engage different from liberal Judaism, but not in voting on the Sabbath," said Signer. necessarily strictly Orthodox as he has Even in the case of a crisis within the been categorized. This distinction, Signer said. brings about a difference in 
see LIEBERMAN/page 6 
First Lady York State. As a result, many of her Hillary Clinton has 42.2 percent of the critics have labeled her a "carpetbag­vote while her Republican opponent, ger." Congressman Rick Lazio, has 42. 7 "I don't really think that that's a percent in New York's Senate race. problem if she can maintain that she's With the poll's 4.5 margin of error, become knowledgeable about the who's leading is anyone's guess. issues,"said Notre Dame philosophy 
However, another poll by Quinnipiac professor Jim Sterba, who also teach­University indicates that Clinton leads es within the gender studies program. Lazio by a 50 to 43 percent margin. He added that Robert Kennedy also 
"It's going to be an interesting set up residency in New York to run race," said Notre Dame government professor Christina Wolbrecht. see CLINTON/page 4 

First Lady 01ay be in 'dead heat' in NY Senate election 
The polls, however, are not the most 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 

interesting story of this campaign. 
Associate News Editor 

Even before the Democrat Clinton declared her candidacy, speculation One of the country's closest-watched was rampant that she was going to Senate races is a statistical dead heat, run for the Senate seat being left according to the most recent Zogby vacant by the retiring Daniel Patrick Interational Moynihan. However, having spent poll. years living in Arkansas and 
photos by PETER RICHARDSON 
After more than 60 years of greeting Notre Dame football fans and helping them to their seats, 86-year-old Victor Couch will retire from a position which he first held as a 12-year old. Couch has been affiliated with the University in one way or another for over 74 years. 
and the Grotto," said Russell "Cappy" Gagnon, coordinator of stadium personnel. "Everybody is so ·nice and so considerate. You just can't help but love what you're doing," said Couch. 
Although, he was a stadium usher for 60 years, Couch, since his job at Cartier Field, has been affiliated with the University for 7 4 years. 
Couch has seen many Irish football teams, head coaches and a renovation in the Stadium, but the change he identi­fied as the largest was the expansion of parking. 
"I would have to rush over to [the campus after work] on Saturdays," said Couch about earlier years of ushering. "That's when you could get a parking space." 
Though parking is more limited, Couch still manages to get on campus and said he always enjoys the games. 
Couch now works in an alumni-filled section of the stadi­um, but he once ushered in the student section, where he said he enjoyed the energy of the students even if at times it 
see USHER/page 4 

·-· --­
page 2 Friday, October 27, 2000
The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Luck of the Irish 
Unlike many Notre Dame or Saint Mary' stu­
dents, I was not weaned on Notre Dame foot­
ball. I would say I watch the games to appreci­
ate all the hard work the athletes put into 
their game, not because rm a rabid fan. 
My interest is partially 
d11e to the fact that my Sarah 
younger brother also RykQwskl 
plays on an Irish team for 
his high school. A team 
Saint Mary's
that, like the Irish of 
News Editor
Notre Dame, has strug­
gled at times. 
In 1997, the Father 
Gabriel Richard Fighting Irish were 0-9. A 
ye:,ar later, under new head coach Ed Maloney, 
they went 3-6. Last year I came home for Fall 
Break only to watch his team win their ninth 
strnight game. 
For the first time in years, the Irish were 
undefeated. No one can remember when they 
la:,t accomplished this feat. 
That year, in the fall of 1999, I bought one of 
those underground T-shirts that students sell 
before the games. one for the Kansas game. 
Then I brought it home as a souvenir for my 
brother. lie wore it to every single practice 
and every single game during his junior sea­
so11. And they won every single game he 
played in. 
'!'he Richard squad earned the Catholic League Class C championship and a trip to the Silverdome to play in the Catholic League Pr,)pBowl, only to lose by two touchdowns for their first loss of the season. They won their lirnt playoff game, and lost the second to end tht1 season at 10-2. 
My brother did not play in the PrepBowl 
except to take the kickoffs, after spraining his 
an.de in the final regular season game. He 
mi:;sed the second playoff game because my 
parents had scheduled a trip to Israel, not 
thi 11king that the Irish had a chance to make 
the playoffs. 
So I would like to think that the shirt had something to do with it. That somehow, the spirit of the Irish after that opening victory rubbed off on the shirt and transferred to my brother and to his Irish teammates. 
My city was as shocked as I was to see them do so well. The newspapers called them a Cinderella team over and over. Perhaps I am doing his team an injustice, going on about a shirt when in fact it was more likely their hard work and skill that did the trick. Still, some­thing different was in the air around the Irish of Ann Arbor, something that seemed to be missing from the Irish of South Bend. 
I wanted to test my hypothesis this year, but I didn't manage to get him a shirt until fall break. By then they were 2-5 overall and strvggling, after losing most of their offensive line to graduation. Most of the seniors and sorr.e of the juniors were playing the whole game to fill the holes. Suddenly, on the same day the Irish walloped Navy, coach Maloney decided to move his senior quarterback to wid,:\ reciever and let his sophomore signal­caller start. Sound familiar? It worked. 
That evening I watched the high school Irish pull through a nail-biter to improve to 3-5. Richard's final game of the season was the nigtt before the West Virginia game. It was a blow-out. They scored on the opening kickoff and went from there. After ending his junior season on a lackluster note, my brother scored two touchdowns in the final game of his career to hdp his team to a 46-12 victory. 
So was all of this an eerie coincidence? I prefer to think of it as the luck of the Irish at worl<. 
Tt. e views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Jason McFarley Amanda Greco Muibe! Morey Graphics s~ott Brodfuehrer Karie Annis 
Sports Production 
Kacie McVoy Jeff Baltruzak Viewpoint Todd Nieco Pac Kelty Lab Tech 
Amanda Greco 
The (tbscrvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exccpl ~ uriog cxa,n anJ vac.a.tiot1 periods. The Observer is a member of the As.odared Pres,, All rep1oduc1ion righu are reserved. 

THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 


NORTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY 
'Love' display draws hazing inquiries 
DEKALB. Ill. 
A Northern Illinois University student, bound naked to a tree and covered in human waste, has drawn the atten­tion of NIU officials and DeKalb police for what he claimed was a voluntary incident. At 12:40 a.m. Wednesday, Todd Mattran was found by DeKalb police officers in front of his girlfriend's sorority house, Alpha Phi, 920 Hillcrest Drive. Members of the organization KEG. a Greenbrier Road fraternity c_hapter unrecognized by NIU, had been saving their urine and feces for the pre­vious week by putting it in pots and other containers, said Rick Clark, university programming and activities direc­tor. KEG members are formerly of Sigma Chi, a fraternity booted off campus for a host of violations earlier this semester. "I want to make it clear that the Greeks are appalled by this," Clark said. "They don't want the com­munity to think they were associated with this incident at all." Alpha Phi vice president Carrie McCarren said the situation was part of a tradition of lavaliering, in which a male professes his love for a sorority member. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
WSND studios victims of theft The making of a 'friendly' rivalry Nov. 3, 1977 Oct. 27, 1995 Over $1,600 in electronic equipment was reported Boston College. Screaming Eagles. These four words have stolen from the studios of WSND-AM/FM, but there was the ability to rile up the Fighting Irish more than most no forcible entry. The theft had apparently occurred others. Mark Mitchell, the student government chief of between 7 p.m. and midnight Oct. 28. In what appeared staff, developed the idea to create a traveling trophy 
as a "quick in-and-out theft," a tape recorder valued at between the two schools that would belong solely to their $1,450 was taken from the station's prouduction studio student bodies. The trophy will travel between the victors in O'Shaughnessy along with $200 of other equipment. of the ND/BC football games for at least the next 10 years. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Injury leads to amputation for San Jose safety 
SAN JOSE, Calif. "ft became evident Saturday tissue was a critical factor." Neil Parry, a sophomore safety on Parry, an undecided major, was a
that there was so much
the San Jose State football team, who starter on the Spartans special suflered a compound fracture during destroyed tissue that there teams. a 47-30 loss to Texas-El Paso on Oct. had to be an amputation. " The injury occurred on a kickoff 14, underwent surgery Monday to return in the third quarter when a amputate below his right knee. UTEP player knocked down a mem­
Martin Trieb 
Surgery was needed to stop an ber of the SJSU team, who then infection in Parry's right leg that San Jose State physician rolled into Parry's leg. began Oct. 18, according to San Jose Spartan head trainer Charlie Miller State head physician Martin Trieb. Trieb said. "There was no infection said the open fibula fracture was visi­
"It became evident Saturday that left in the remaining portion." Trieb ble through lhe sock. there was so much destroyed tissue said the fracture infection was highly "It was an angulated fracture that there had to be an amputation," unusual in 20-year-old Parry's case. where the lower leg was out of align­Trieb said. "There are motorcycle accidents ment," Miller said. "There was exten­
The amputation, which was done where a person's leg scrapes along sive bleeding through the sock." 
three inches above the ankle, was the cement, picks up dirt and there's Parry was immediately taken to the performed successfully at the no infection," he said. "This particu­hospital where surgery was per­Stanford Medical Center in Palo Alto, lar infection has not happened many formed to put a rod into his leg. The according to Trieb. times. We don't know why it hap­goal of the surgery Saturday was to "The knee is in good condition," pened. The lack of blood supply to stabilize the right tibia, Trieb said. 

UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA 
USF suspends basketball coach 
TAMPA, Fla. 

The University of South Florida suspended women's basketball coach Jerry Ann Winters Wednesday after an investigation said there was "reasonable cause" to believe she retaliated against former player Dione Smith after Smith complained about racial discrimination to universi­ty officials. "Examination of the evidence indicates that the complainant [Smith] would not have been dismissed from the basketball team was it not for her participation in a discrimination complaint," said assistant vice presi­dent for human resources Edouard Piou in a letter to Smith and Winters. Winters is suspended with pay for the duration of the appeal process, which will be more than a month. Assistant coach Jose Fernandez is the acting coach. "I believe that is the appropriate course of action," Athletics Director Paul Griffin said. "This will give her time to consider her options, which include an appeal. She actually asked to have time to concentrate." Winters said in a statement she would appeal and that the final investigation was "wrong and is defective on its face." 
5 ~y Sooth Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"'forecast for da time conditions and high temperatures 
~~---/ 
SaturJay
I 
Sundar MondcJY 
\ 

TuesdJIY
1 
_,.'> 
...,/· -~ C 2000 AccuWuther1 Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
,.....,.. ® (b) D D CJ D D CJ 
High Low Shower• Rain T1torma Flurtle• Snow Sunny Pl. Ck>udy Cloudy


We1~~~~~~/4~g ,.. 
ViaAuoa•redPrn!J 

AUanta 77 62 Las Vegas 63 51 Portland 56 49 Baltimore 71 56 Memphis 69 45 Sacramento 67 52 Boston 70 58 Milwaukee 50 43 St. Louis 75 57 Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 73 45 New York 70 59 Tampa 80 60 
4,~-~AQQ (f ~ u 
Via Auociated Prus G,aphicsNet Hous1on 80 66 Philadelphia 73 55 Wash DC 70 57 
page 3 

Friday, October 27, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Cited students receive advice 
. Students busted in Finnigan's raid hear legal options 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
News Wrirer 
ThreP Notrr Dame students with knowledge of the St. JosHph's County legal syslem and thr Notre Dame Residents I.ife system spoke to students citr.d at Finnigan's Irish Pub on Oct. 13 to di::;cuss their legal options. 
"I guess I am glad that I am pan or this Notre Dame tradi­tion. We had Bridget's and you guys have Finnigan's," said Kudy Monterrosa, student bar president of the Notre Dame Law School and an asshtant rector in Siegfried Hail. 
Monterrosa, the coordinator of the public defender program at the Law School. told approxi­malely 50 of the 147 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student.'> cited at Finnigan's what to expect when they go to the St. Joseph's County courthouse. 
"This is really just to demysti­fy the process," he said. "I know most of you have never been in court before and have never been in trouble with the law." 
He said the prosecutor's office will most likely give the Finnigan's 147 the option for a pretrial diversion. If students select a pretrial diversion they will most likely be required to pay a $220 fine, perform 40 hours of community service and be placed on probation for one year. If students remain out of trouble for that one-year period, the citation will be wiped from their record. 
He said the prosecutor's office is not interested in slamming the student,; with heavy punish­ments because it has so many cases to handle at once. Most of the students at the information session had court dates today. 
"They are really worried about you folks coming over !Friday) because they are understaffed," Monterrosa said. "It's not everyday that they bust that many people so they are going to speed up the process. The pretrial diver::;ion process is the best way to get this off your record." 
If a student has prior offenses on his or her record. however, pretrial diversion may not be an option. lf a student is not given the option of a pretrial diver­s i o n . Monterrosa rec­
ing, a panel

"They may be
ommended administrators inter­seeking a plea taking this thing rogates the student bargain with the more seriously about the violation prosecutor but and usually hands
than in the past. " 
also encouraged out harsher. punish­students to con-ments than a confer­s u It with a Tony Wagner ence. Student may 
request a peer advo­

lawyer. judicial board president
"I think [a pretrial] diver­sion is pretty much what every­body is going to get but every­one has different circumstances so your penalty may vary," said Monterrosa who planned to be at the courthouse today to give students advice. 
While Monterrosa outlined· exactly what the charges against the students meant, stu­dent government chief of staff Jay Smith told the students how the procedures at the court­house actually work. 
Smith spoke from personal experience. He was one of the 165 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students cited at Bridget McGuire's on Jan. 30, 1998. 
Smith encouraged students to show up for their hearings early and dress appropriately. 

"It's early. It's Friday. It sucks but get there early," he said. "You don't want to give them any reason to mess with you." 
In addition to punishment from St. Joseph's County, sever­al students at the meeting were also concerned with possible punishment from ResLife. 
Tony Wagner. president of the judicial board and a peer advo­cate, said all the Notre Dame students but. three would receive conferences with HesLife and not H.esLife hear­ings. 
A conference is a one-on-one meeting with an administralor and usually less serious than a 
hearing. At a hear­
of 
cate to assist them 

with a hearing but peer advocates do not usually participate in conferences, Wagner said. 
While students cited at Bridget's did not receive further discipline from ResLlfe, Wagner suspects that the students cited at Finnigan's may be disciplined more seriously. With the Board of Trustees examining the alco­hol policies at Notre Dame, Wagner thinks students might be treated more harshly than in the past. 
"They may be taking this thing more seriously than in the past," Wagner said but he didn't know what those punishments might be. "I can't even begin to understand their minds." 
~IJS
J"'°P .

•~ll News America Marketing 
..,,,._'f.JI' 


Learn more about News America Marketing's gr~eat careers in sales and marketing at our information session: 

Monday, October 30th 
6:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. 

The Alumni Room at The Morris Inn 
All Majors Welcome • 3.0 Minimum GPA Refreshments Will Be Served 
Visit us at www.newsamerica.com 


Students kick off free speech group 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Writer 
Twenty-two students and one faculty member brainstormed ideas to promote free speech in a meeting for the newly formed 
coalition  for  free  speech  
Thursday night.  
Though  not  an  official  

University group, participants at the meeting were members of various student organiza­tions that wantf)d to discuss the issue of free speech and how it is implemented on cam­pus. 
"If you want to advance as an academic institu­
would consider other forms of getting the issue heard such as petitions. forums and rallies. 
Graduate student and PSA member Aaron Kreider cited several examples in the past in which the University affected free speech, especially pointing out incidents when it censored student media as well as stu­dent organizations. 
"Threats like this are nothing new," said Kreider referring to recent debate about The Observer's status as an inde­pendent paper free to choose its own advertisement. "The administration systematically violated freedom of speech." 
Philosophy 

tion, we must be professor
"lfyou want to 
able to speak Edward Manier, freely," said advance as an a graduate of Dillon senator academic institution, the class of Brendan Dowdall 1953, shared
we must be able to
who came along with students his 
with other stu­speak freely. ,, 
experience as an dent government undergraduate representatives student at the
Brendan Dowdall 
to the meeting. University say­
Dillon Hall senator
Members of the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA) were on hand to suggest different ways in which they could effectively send messages to both students and the administration about the importance of and necessi­ty for free speech. 
"As a coalition we need to do constructive work and brain­storm ideas," said senior Sarah Greeman of PSA. 
Students said they would make a strong effort to work with administrators to collabo­rate on free speech issues. However, if that method did not work, many also said they 
ing students 

were under even more restrictions in regards to free speech. 
"I'm sort of an old Domer with a chip on his shoulder," said Manier. 
He said that compared to many other academic institu­tions. the University often lim­its free speech here, usually on the grounds that statements or actions go aga'ihst Catholic doctrine. 
"People in power like to exercise that power," said Manier. "If they can support those decisions with Catholic doctrine, they'll do that." 

F'Q~ M,Q1:'"f::,_1ff"F,O~":'-"'T£.0~,n~.~-,C;~µ. tZ.J.9~ e,_3J~~O1,:PA Yl,SiT_tiTTP:/./WWW.,N0.t!i:DU/-cmtao'EfllS 

Student Workers Needed 
To help assist other students using the temporary DART registration system at the Registration Center, G 184 Hesburgh Library from November 
ch 

8 through December l" 
Hours: 9:00 am to 5:00 pm 
Dates: 
November 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 28, 29, 30, December 1 
We need student help throughout the day ... you pick your time you are available 
Please Contact: Arlene Vogt, Assistant Registrar, 105 Main Building, Registrar's Office 631-6050 
pag,: 4 The Observer . NEWS Friday, October 27, 2000 
================================================================================================================================= 

out the county," Sterba said. 
"It may well be that she is a 
First Lady who has stepped 

continued from page I out of the traditional role." 
In fact, this is the first time 

for the Senate. the first lady has run for 
Originally, Clinton's oppo­political office on her own. nent was New York City "It will be a nice precedent mayor Hudy Guiliani. for the ruture," Sterba said. llowevcr. "Hillary reprnsents the in May, future and not the past." t h e "Certainly, she is stepping mayor out of a traditional gonder withdrew role," said Wolbrecht, from the adding that some voters may racn after be uncomfortable with b c i n g Clinton's candidacy as a d i 1. g -result. n o s c d "There's just a percentage with can-of people opposed to a cer. women being president, and 
Laiio, a young I think that filters down to 

Contressman who grew up governors, senators -any 
in the New York suburbs, higher political office," 
quickly jumped into the race. Sterba said. 
After nearly eight years as However, Sterba pointed 

first lady, Clinton is the bet­out that many women now 
ter known of the two candi­have careers of their own. 
dates. "Most women now work 
"Everybody knows who she outside the home and there is," Wolbrecht said. "They are a lot of two-income fami­knoVI' a lot about her." lies," Sterba said. 
Notoriety could either help "Maybe there will be a or hurt Clinton. woman president and her 
Car.didates want voters to husband will be a lawyer recognize their names on the somewhere," he said. "[Any ballot, but in Clinton's case, president's spouse] has to with name put their career recognition also on hold a little comes the fact "Everybody while their hus­that people knows who she band or wife is 
know details of president." 
Clinton 
is. They know a

her lil'e that they However, there do nc,t particu­lot about her. " is also an assump­larly like, tion that woman acco!'ding to Christina Wolbrecht voters will natu­
Wolbrecht. rally 'favor female 
Some Of government professor 
candidates, 

Lazio's support, Wolbrecht said. according to "The press likes Sterba, comes from simply to talk about it a lot," running against Clinton, not Wolbrecht said. "I don't 
becau:m of some characteris­think a lot of really good tic of his own. In fact, when studies have been done." asking for money from out­Some people, however, of-stale donors, he pointed may simply be opposed to out the fact that he was run­Clinton's husband or the fact ning against Clinton, Sterba that she has stayed with him said. despite his marrital infideli­
"l think he has to down ties.Nevertheless. President play ttiat a little in New York Clinton has been out cam­becam:e he has to talk about paigning on behalf of his the issues,"Sterba said. wife. 
"She's a really polarizing "The President is still very figure, like her husband," popular among different Wolbrecht said, adding that constituent groups," most Americans either love Wolbrecht said. "It looks or halt: the Clintons. kind of strange [if your hus­
"I don't understand the band doesn't campaign for hatred toward her through-you]." 
cinema@thesnite 
presents 

PRhv(tSSMOtvOtvOJ(.t 

Usher 
continued from page 1 
was hard to control the section. 
"They were full of pep all over the place," said Couch. "You couldn't get them to sit down like they were supposed to." 
Clark said that alumni who knew him as students have come back for games and encouraged him to continue to usher. Others, Couch said have asked him, "When are you going to call it quits?" 
"It makes me proud to be an usher at Notre Dame," said Couch and said he will remain an avid Notre Dame fan after he stops ushering. 
Before Couch retired, he worked as a road driver for Latheworks in South Bend for 15 years. Often during the week, Couch would eat in South Dining Hall with his wife who was a clerk in the old University bookstore. 
Gagnon, who has been the head of stadium ushers for six years, said Couch represents the usher mission, which is to be "ambassadors for Notre Dame." 
As ambassadors, Gagnon said the ushers have to be well­groomed, with white collared shirts, dress slacks and ties ­but the dress code is not the only defining characteristic of the "ambassadors." 
Gagnon said while the ushers are allowed to be -and over­whelmingly are -Notre Dame fans, they need to be objective in the stadium so as not to seem biased to guests from other teams. 
"Can you put your fanship aside a little bit and instead be a host for a little bit?" Gagnon 
said, asking a common question 
that he wants the ushers to 
answer affirmatively. 
Gagnon said this policy has 

worked and people often call 
him to complement the ushers. 
The stadium ushers -500 of 

whom are unpaid volunteers ­
come from various places and 
backgrounds to work at Notre 
Dame football games. These 
include Tim Schwartz of 
Louisville, Ky. who drivns to 
South Bend starting at 12 a.m. 
Saturdays and arrives at 6 a.m. 
Gagnon said as an early shirt 
usher, he offered Schwartz pay, 
but he wouldn't except it. 
"We have so many people who work for free just to be part of Notre Dame," said Gagnon. 
Another traveling usher is a physician from Washington, DC who is not ushering this season because of his job. However, he used to ny to South Bend for games regularly. 
Cagnon said he was thor­oughly impressed with Jim Hall. an usher at the wheel­chair entrance who uses a wheelchair himself. At the Texas A&M game, Hall gave up his wheelchair so that senior citizens that had trouble mov­ing quickly in the 100 degree­plus weather could get to their seats more easily. 
"I think that's an incredible act of kindness," said Gagnon. 
Couch said that he has not seen any stadium with the amount of ushers that Notre Dame has nor the quality of service they provide. 
After the final score decides the winner of the last home game of the season against Boston College on Nov. 11, the stadium ushers will lose a staff member, but retain a man who intends to remain an ambas­sador for Notre Dame forever. 
"I love Notre Dame very, very much," said Couch. 

Attention Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students, Faculty and Administration 
Please donate One Can ,ifa n,m-perisltablefood iem It> slww Jww 
Qn::e.· Ca~ Make a l).ifferen-ce ! 
Food Drive to benefit the North Central Indiana Food Bank 
Co-Sponsored by the Noire Dame Alumni Association, the Centerfor Social Concerns and tlie Notre Dame/St. ,Wary'.~ studenlv. 
When: Friday and Saturday, October 27th and 28th 
Where: Collection points will be located in tl,e lobbies ofGrace and Flanner Falls on Friday, outside the Notre Dame Bookstore and La Fortune Student Center on both days, and outside the Joyce Center, Gate 10, prior to the Pep Rully on Friday evening. 



. rm 
¦ 
. 
C'CHTflt ro• 
SOCIAL
. 

CONCERNS 




ATION 
Friday, October 27, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
FBI threatened in USS Cole probe: 
Machine-gun mounted military vehicles sur­rounded a port-side hotel and civilian traffic was kept away Thursday after a bomb threat targeted Americans investigating the attack on the USS Cole. American forces in Bahrain, Qatar and Turkey are on heightened alert because of new evidence or terrorist threats in the region. 
Ivory Coast celebrates president: 
Opposition leader Laurent Gbagbo was sworn in as president, ending two-days of protests by Gbagbo's ;mpporters after Gen. Robert Guei, the counfry's now-ousted military leader, sus­pended the commission overseeing presidential elections and declared himself the winner. Duzens were killed before Guei reportedly fled to Renin. and Gbagbo took office. 
NATIONAL News BRIEFS 
Man sentenced to four centuries: 
A Washington man who confessed to killing 13 people and one attempted murder dating back a quarter century to avoid the death penalty asked God to right his wrongs as he was sen­tenced Thursday to 408 years in prison. "I pray that God will right the wrongs that I have com­mitted and that justice will bring closure," Robert L. Yates Jr. told a small courtroom packed with sobbing relatives of his victims. 
County bans cell phone use in autos: New York's Suffolk County, home to the Hamptons and other playgrounds of the wealthy, has banned drivers from using hand­held phones. "We are targeting a careless dri­ving habit that didn't exist 10 years ago," County Executive Robert Gaffney said Thursday. Violators will be fined $150. Emergency calls are exempt. 
INDIANA News BRIEFS 
Manager admits faking robbery: 
The manager of a Christian bookstore, who tripped and hit his head while stealing money from the store, tried to fool police into believing he'd been battered and robbed. Sgt. Matt Myers of the Columbus Police Department said police were dispatched to the Family Christian Store early Tuesday morning on a report that a rob­ber had beaten the store's manager. Gilbert 'Tony" Matteucci, 28, of Greenwood, was man­ager of the store for less than three weeks. Myers said Matteucci told police he was in the store and was coming out of the restroom when he was knocked unconscious by a blow to the head. Employees found him shortly after 7:30 
a.m. lying on the floor with a small abrasion on his face. He told them he had been robbed and they called police. 
Market Watch 10/26 

Dow 
10,380.12 +53.64 

]ONES 

Composite
&tle.fi 
Volume:
l~l 
1,181,516,544 
Nasdaq: 3272.18 +42.60 


S&P 500: 1364.44 -0.46 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURIJY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE JDS YBUOGASE (I IDSU) +4.85 t3.4•i 7444 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) ,,.so +2.93 53 5G NASDAQ I 00 SHAR (QQQ) +2.49 +1.94 79.88 WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) -13.86 -3.50 21.75 NORTEL NETWORKS (NTi 1.13 +0.50 45.38 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
RUSSIA 

Officials find 23 survived Kursk accident 
Auociau:d Press 
MURMANSK 

Huddled in a destroved submarine on the sea floor, a Russian sailcir wrotfl a terse account of how he and 22 comrades tried in vain to escape, then scrawled a last message to his family, Russian naval officials said Thursday. 
The note was found in the pocht of Lt. Dmitry Kolesnikov, whose body was one of the first to be recovered from the nuclear submarine Kursk that sank Aug. 12 with 118 men aboard. The message was the first firm evidence that any of the crew initially survived explosions that shattered the submarine. 
Written a few hours after the sub plunged to the bottom of the Barents Sea, the note tells a horrifying story in eerily straightforward sentences. 
"All the crew from the sixth, sev­enth and eighth compartments went over to the ninth. There are 23 peo­ple here. We made this decision as a result of the accident," Russian navy chief Adm. Vladimir Kuroyedov quot­ed the note as saying. 
"None of us can get to the surface," the message continued. 
Kolesnikov's handwriting in the first part of the note was neat, Kuroyedov said during a meeting with the victims' relatives. But after the submarine's emergency lights went out, the 27-year-old seaman from St. Petersburg began to scrawl and desperation set in. 
"I am writing blindly," Kuroyedov quoted the latter part of the note as saying. 
The rest of the note was private and would be shown to Kolesnikov's family, said Vice Adm. Mikhail Motsak, the Northern Fleet chief of staff. 
Most of the Kursk's crew apparent­ly died instantly in the explosions that tore open the Kursk's first six compartments or within minutes as water roared into the submarine. 
But the knowledge that some remained alive for hours revived the horror that gripped the nation after the sinking. 
"I feel pain, enormous pain," Kolesnikov's widow, Olga, said on the NTV television channel. "I had a pre­monition my husband didn't die instantly. The pain I felt then has come true." 
In excerpts of a documentary shown on NTV Thursday, Olga also said her husband had penned her a mournful poem in the days before he went on the Kursk's final voyage and left it. 
"Shortly before he went to sea, he wrote a poem to me that says 'When the hour to die will come, although I try not to think about it, I would like to have time to say, 'My darling I love you'," she said in a documentary made by Norway's TV2. Parts of it were shown on NTV Thursday. 

The recovered bodies are to be flown on Saturday to Severomorsk, the Northern Fleet's main port, for a memorial service. However, fierce winds forced the divers to suspend operations Thursday and it was unclear when bodies could be brought to the surface, the IT AR­Tass news agency reported. 
The Russian government has been widely criticized at home for a slow and seemingly confused response to the disaster. Russian mini-sub­marines tried unsuccessfully for days to open the Kursk's escape hatch. There were reports that noises from the wreckage could have come from trapped sailors banging on the hull. 
Two days after the Kursk went down, Russia made the sinking pub­
lic. Although Western countries quickly offered to help, it was anoth­er two days before a Norwegian div­ing team was asked to assist. The Norwegians quickly opened the hatch but determined that the sub was flooded and the crew dead. 
CHINA 

Government jails sect members 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 

The 11 Falun Gong followers eat­ing stewed pork and spicy peppers in a private room at a Beijing restau­rant knew it could be their last sup­per before a long detention in prison. 
Mostly strangers, they introduced themselves in hushed voices and shared their anger over a Chinese government crackdown on their sect. 
It was a scene replayed throughout Beijing on Wednesday night, a day before at least 100 sect members wern detained during one of Falun Gong's largest demonstrations since it was banned 15 months ago. 
Thursday's events at Tiananmen Square were brief but violent, like most of the sect's previous demons­trations. No sooner had small bands of Falun Gong members begun to unfurl banners or throw leaflets than dozens of police rushed to pummel them and drag them to waiting vans. 
One man, thrown to the ground, was kicked in the stomach and head until blood ran from his mouth onto the gray flagstones. An elderly woman was dragged by her hair for several yards as bystanders pleaded with police to stop. 
Order was restored only after police closed China's best known public monument for almost a half hour. One witness said 30 police vans fillfld with protesters drove off the square, which could put the numbers detained over several hun­dred. 
.. A-1,~v the Blessed .Mother bless this  "This CD reacht?S out to ND.friends,  "You have much to be proud of in this  
work and all who e1?joy it. "  family. andfans r;.fail ages."  musical endeavor.'~  
Fr. Ted Hesburgh, C.S.C.  Jim O'Connor  Fr. rvtark Poonnan, C.S.C.  
Notre Dame President Emeritus  Manager, Hammes ND Bookstore  Vice President for Stt_tdent: Affi1irs  
1-&:. :Nt:l\'t1~l,~1~~:\'.tllit- 
~::i:~?{iti,J':WlJ\tif:,·ir  
''I am an ND parent and havejust  
''This one should be a bi~ hit <.•  returnedfivm seeing my flro sons  
with the ND croivd during the  get sett/edf'or another yea!'.  1  
upcoming j(,01ball season!"  believe that _vou haev tl'lh~l' cap~  
tured the S'pirit Our Lcutr \·  
Fr. Bill Beauchan1p, C.S.C  Universi~V- Thanks/"  
Executive Vice President  -The Hucbners  
Emeritus  
\Vinston-Salem. NC  
ND Parents  

page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS ·Friday, October 27, 2000 
Exclusively available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
LIVE 

appearance in bookstore Sun 1~3 pm 
wwvv.pianobrothers~com 
LiieberIDan 
continued from page l 
nation. Signer said that Lieberman could work around the rules of the Sabbath. 
"[Lieberman I sees this as something extremely important,'' said Signer. "The Sabbath laws can be 
set aside for saving a human life." 
The most recent issue that has contin­ued the debate about Liflberman's religious infl Licncc on policies is the continuous and increasingly violent 

outt>reaks in the West Lieberman Bank, which are impeding the process of negotiation between Israelis and Palestinians difficult. Ma-r1y have protested Lieberman's presence on the ticket saying that he would be biased whim dflaling with Middle East officials. 
"When you go to the bargaining table you ha~e to be fair," said freshman Dan Tyszka, member of the College Hepublicans. "Lioberman's views could be biased." 
Tyszka said that he could not specifically prndict Lieberman's actions but he thinks that Lieberman would push for a Jewish stale in the Middle East. 
"I don't know what he would do directly othar than he would not be a very good per­son to send to the bargaining table for the United States," Tyszka said. 
However government and international relations professor Alan Dowty said that foreign policy is not a large enough issue to sway the vote significantly against Lieberman. 
"Foreign policy is still a minor concern and Lieberman's attitudes are not di!Terent from Gore's or from the other candidates," Dowty said. 
Signer pointed out that Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, who is also Jewish, held his office in another time of unrest in the Middle East. 

"There's someone who on a daily basis had to deal with the Middle East," said Signer. 
Signer said that as Kissinger handled the situation, Liebf'rrman could also. 
In addition to comparisons to Kissinger, some have compared the situation of Lieberman to that of President John Kennedy in 1960 when Kennedy became the first Catholic U.S. president If Lieberman should be elected with Gore, he could introduce yet another religion to the executive office. 
Dowty said the comparisons are similar because both politician broke significant political barriers. 
"In a sense, it represents a kind of break­through for a particular religion, Catholicism then, Judaism now," said Dowty. 
"If anything it's a positive factor," said Uowty of Gore's choice of Lieberman for his ticket. 
Tyszka, however. said if there was a con• flict in Northern Ireland in 1960, he feels that Kennedy would hold the same bias and therefore be a poor repre­
sentative in negotiations. "Even as a Catholic I would say that he would  "... I believe we are still struggling to  as a nation need to have. for I believe that we are still strug­gling to regain our moral bal­ 
have to stay away from  regain our moral  ance in part because we are  
that bargaining table as well," said Tyszka.  balance ... "  still struggling to regain our spiritual balance."  
However, some question  One way that Lieberman  
Ueberman's religious bias.  Joseph Lieberman  showed his moral views to the  
many hold the belief that  vice presidential candidate  American people was during  

his faith is not a significant issue. 
In an August ABC/Good Morning America telephone poll, 89 percent said they're "not concerned that Lieberman's faith would interfere with his duties as vice president." 
Monday Lieberman said during his lecture on "Faith and Values" that he did not see a radical difference among the religion's influence in U.S. society, but he noted soci­ety has become divided into two sides: secu­lar and religious. He made it clear that he supported the religious side because he the Clinton impeachment trial 
when he publicly criticized Clinton for his relations with Monica Lewinsky. 
To many people this was a bold action and in the August poll, 72 percent thought favorably of his criticism of Clinton. 
For Lieberman, morality and spirituality work inextricably together, but he said that he would make sure that while trying to raise morale in the U.S. he would guard against excluding others who do not share his beliefs. 
thinks that all U.S. people can benefit from religious values. 
"The core of those original values -faith, family and freedom; equal opportunity. respect for the basic dignity of human life: and tolerance for individual differences ­clearly had their roots in the Judeo­Christian ethic of the Founders. But they were not, and are not, exclusive to any one religious denomination," said Lieberman. 
Dowty said by including all religions, Lieberman has not been divisive. Instead. he has used religious values like faith to appeal to all people in the U.S. 
"His candidacy has represented an appeal to basic religious values that look beyond any specific religion,'' said Dowty. 
However, Lieberman did acknowledge during the lecture that he had received crit­icism for his religious rhetoric. but said it would not discourage him from talking about religion. 
"Some friends and foes alike discouraged me from speaking about religion any more. But my resolve has only been strength­ened." said Lieberman. "The experiences I have had in this campaign convince me that 
this is a conversation that we 
ND plans 'one can' 
food drive 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association, Center for Social Concerns and other University representatives are sponsor­ing the "One Can Make a Difference Food Drive" today and Saturday. 
The event is being held in conjunction with "Make a Difference Day." 
Officials are asking that each student, faculty and staff member donate to the effort one can of a non-perishible food item. 
The intent is to demonstrate to the community the impact that one person's contribution can make. 
The cans collected from the drive will benef'it the North Central Indiana Food Bank in South Bend. 
Collection points will be located outside the LaFortune Student Center and the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore today and Saturday. Another collection site will be located at Gate 10 outside the Joyce Center before the pep rally today. 
Anyone with questions about the food drive can contact the Alumni Association's commu­nity service department today or Saturday at 631-6723. 

Friday, October 27, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
College Park may allow fewer students in each unit 
By LIZ ZANONI 
News Writer 
College Park, the all-student apartment complex on Bulla Road. is considering limiting the number of students allowed in each of the 52 units, said College Park man­ager, P.R. Gibson. 
Instead of permitting threfl to four people in each apart­ment. Gibson said that the apartments, owned by Southwest Corporation in Fort Wayne. might limit each unit to two or three students. 
"Three is being talked about," said Gibson. "It seems to work out better, but none of it is carved in stone." 
Past experience is the prima­ry reason for the cap on the number of students per apart­ment said Gibson. Although Pach College Park apartment has only Lwo bedrooms and two bathrooms, most current residences have three or four students living in each unit. 
Although Gibson believes that limiting students would have little effect on next year's potential residents, students who have heard the rumor are concerned about higher living expenses. This year's College Park students paid $915 for a lower apartment and $940 for an upper apartment per month. 
"I don't think they'll find many people who can afford it," said senior Matt Schoettler, a College Park resident who lives with three other room­mates on the second floor. Schoettler said he and his roommates might .not have lived at Collegfl Park if they were limited to three people. 
Gibson, however believes that splitting the rent among three people is a reasonable request. 
"I'd like to know where else you i;an rent for $300 a piece," said Gibson. "If that is too high, somebody has a real 


11 International~ House C 
Une Soiree Musicale 
avec Gege et Nico 
An Accoustic Performance ofPopular French Songs i -? 
Gerard Maze Nicolas Saettel 
(Switzerland) (Frmwe} 


Friday, October 27, 2000 7:00pm -9:00pm at the Center for So ·al Concerns (near the Hesi,UA!~::il>J~) 

alone or with only one other person. 
"That would be the ideal sit­uation," Gibson said in refer­ence to maintaining two people per apartment. 
Erin Place, a senior Finance major who lives at College Park, said that the rent would be obscene when split between only two students. 
Although Gibson was clear in pointing out that the cutback was speculative, Notre Dame juniors Colleen Flood, Kate Diaz and Mandy Reimer were told by Gibson that for next year, only three were allowed in the bottom apartments and two were allowed in the upper apartments. Flood, Diaz and Reimer instead decided to rent from Ann Ward who bought some of the units within College Park and is allowing the three women to live in an upper apartment. 
It is not clear at this point what the ramifications could mean to students wanting to live off-campus. 
Despite the circulating rumor, Gibson said that College Park will continue to remain a student only apart­ment complex, regardless whether the maximum number of residences per apartment is reduced. 
"We'd like to think we have the best place in town," said Gibson. "The kids tell me so." 
problem" currently has a few students Gibson said College Park who have chosen to either live 
Now's_ the time... 
to finish your degree at BETHEL COLLEGE 
Adult Education for Today's Busy Lifestyles 
• Experience a nontraditional environment 
• Attend accelerated classes 
• 
Advance your career 

• 
Realize your dreams 

• 
Focus on values 


Call Today! 
219-257-3350 or 800-422-4251 adultprograms@bethel-ln.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DA,,~ INTER."lfATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 201 Security Bulldin-c Notr-t: Da~, Indiana 46556 T: 631-5881 Fax: 631-5711 

Interested in writing 
for The 

Observer? 
Let us know. 
INNSBRUCK 
2001-2002 Academic Year INFORMATION MEETING 
Come and meet Professor Gemot Giirtler, Director ofthe Innsbruck Program 
TUESDAY OCTOBER 31, 2000 207 DEBARTOLO 5:00 PM 
Call 1-5323. 

Applications Available www/nd.edu/~intlstud Questions? -Webcr.lS@nd.edu Application Deadline: December 1 
Friday, October 27, 2000

page 8 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS 
Concern 

Spending bill would nullify state food laws 
raised over 

would have to petition FDA Dakota. agents. or substances that are 
truck tires 
Associated Pre.. 
PHOENIX 
Officers at the Arizona Department of Public Safety were so worried about dan­gers associated with Fircston'e truck tires that in 
l998 the agency's director had them replaced on _all vehicles. 
But while the agency voiced concerns over accidents and tread· separation blowouts to Bridgestone/Firestone Inc., it did not alert federal regula­1ors or the public. When Bridgestone/Firestone gave the agency a $42,000 replacement credit, it accept­ud the tire maker's charac­terization of the problem as '·customer dissatisfaction" rather than faulty tires, an investigation by The Associated Press found. 
"It seems that they took a very short-term, practical approach to this and didn't look al the safety ramifica­tions," said Grant Woods, who was the state's attorney {teneral at the time. "It's one thing for a private citizen to do it. It's another for a gov­cirnmen t agency to do it. A !tovernment agency shouldn't do it." 
Joan Claybrook, director of the consumer watchdog group Public Citizen and a former head of the National llighway Traffic Safety Administration, said agencies like Arizona's public safety department, which have large fleets of vehicles. skilled dri­\'ers and consistent mainte­nance programs. are in the hest position to recognize tire s af'ety problems first. 
"When you have the responsibility of public safety. you always have to be think­ing of the publie." she said. "My God. it seems like corpo­rate behavior not public behavior." 
Joe Albo. the agency's director at the time who ordered the switch to tires made by The Goodyear Tire Hubber Co .. said the risk management unit of Arizona's Department of Administration was told t,bout its tire problems. No one from the state filed any complaints with the National Ilighway Traffic Safety Administration, according to the federal agency's records. 
Gov. Jane Hull's spokes­woman, Francie Noyes, said the administration is review­ing the tire problems and the agency's response. 
"We've just become aware of the issues you raise and we're looking into it," Noyes told AP. 
Federal regulators are investigating 3,500 com­plaints and 119 tratTic deaths in connection with tires made by Nashville, Tenn.-based Bridgestone/Firestone. Some of the complaints were about tread separation. 
Arizona was one of four hot-weather states where most of' the initial tread-sepa· ration complaints about Firestone tires originated. 
In 1997 and 1998, Arizona public safety officers were involved in at least five acci­dents caused by tread sepa­rations, according to the agency's documents. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The food industry wants to use a must-pass spending bill to nullify state laws that require warnings on food products and dietary supple­ments and impose other reg­ulations on processors. 
The food regulation mea­sure was on a list of items Thursday that 11epublican Senate leaders planned' to attach to the last appropria­tions bill that Congress is expected to pass before going home for the elections. 
The measure, opposed by state regulatory agencies and the Clinton administration, would bar states from impos­ing labeling and food safety standards that are more stringent than the Food and Drug Administration's. States for exemptions from the law. Opponents of the legislation toxic to the reproductive sys­
"This legislation is needed say it would effectively block tem. so that we have a unified, state efforts to act in areas Manul'acturers typically common-sense system of where FDA has been ineffec-remove or alter products labeling in the tive or to rather than face the negative United States goad the publicity from a warning and not a "This legislation is agency to label. Because California is patchwork such a large market, whatev­
needed so that we have a regulate
quilt of states products er companies do there they
unifed, common-sense
trying to usurp it has not. are likely to do nationwide. the authority system of labeling in the T h e The state used the measure of the FDA." f o o d to force manufacturers to
United States and not a 
said Gene industry reduce lead levels in calcium
patchwork quilt ofstates
Grabowski, a has been supplements. spokesman for trying to usurp the trying for "The Republicans are going the Grocery 12 years against the wishes of
authority ofthe FDA, " 
Manufacturers to get out California voters with this of America. r r O Ill anti-environmental rider," 
The legisla­Gene Grabowski under a said Sen. Barbara Boxer, D­tion is spon­Grocery Manufactuerers of California Calif'. sored by at 1 a w . She and other Democrats
America 
least three known as opposed to the industry­dozen sena-Propo-backed legislation sent a let­tors, many from farm states, sition 65, that requires a ter to the White House urging including Democratic leader warning label on all products President Clinton to veto any Tom Daschle of South that contain cancer-causing bill to which it was attached. 




College Center, and our ATM in the Hesburgh Library, we now have a third ATM in LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's. Plus, we've extended our hours at Saint Mary's to serve you even better. 
Saint Mary's Banking Center• 235-2019 M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30 
lstsource.com AOL Keyword: 1st Source Bank 
'Subject to new account credit restrictions. 


The Easy Banking Club 
for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Faculty and Staff 
Great Benefits 

Sign up for direct deposit payroll at 1st Source Bank and receive the following great benefits: 
• 
Free checking account* 

• 
Interest on balances over $750 

• 
Unlimited check writing 

• 
Free Resource® or Resource Plus® card 

• 
1/2% interest discount on consumer loans 

• 
$100 mortgage closing cost discount 

• 
On-line Banking account information access ­free for three months 


Ask Human Resources or a 1st Source Bank representative for details on how easy it is to join. 
Now More Convenient Than Ever! 
In addition to our banking center and ATM in Haggar 
THE CANDAX-ME MCNAIR PROGRAM ANNOUNCES THE 2000 -2001 RECRUITMENT MEETING WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2000 
4:00 -5:00 PM (Pizzas & Sodas will be served) 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL.CONCERNS (DEADLINE FORAPPLICATION: Nov. 17) 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
(all ethnic backgrounds are eligible) 
or 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans :l!www.nd.edu/~mario/mcnair/)

Friday, October 27, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Israelis forces brace for more violence 
to an army outpost in Gaza. Associated Press 
There, AraeP.r set off the charge, killing himself and 
JEHUSALEM slightly injuring an Israeli sol­

Israeli serurity forces poured dier. The radical Islamic Jihad 
reinforcements into east 
group claimed responsibility. 

Jerusalem on Friday amid 
"He shouted 'Allahu Akbar' 

fears of new violence after a [God is Great] and blew himself 
Palestinian suicide bomber up," an Israeli guard at the 
struck a military outpost in the outpost told Israel television. 
restive Caza Strip. 
"We have been warning that 

Police planned to restrict 
these kinds of attacks were in 

Palestinians from weekly the works," said army
l\luslim prayers at Jerusalem's spokesman Col. Raanan Gissin. 
main holy site. Only men over 
A wave of bombings on 

35 would be allowed to attend buses, markets and other pub­
the noon prayers at Al-Aqsa 
lic places left scores dead in the 

mosque, Jerusalem police 
mid-l 990s. But the number of 

spokesman Shmuel Ren-Ruby 
attacks WP.nt down sharply

said. 
especially since the May 1999 

It was at the 
election of 

site -the flash­
Israeli 

point hill known "He shouted 'Allahu P m
r i e 

to Muslims as 
Akbar' [God is Great] Minister 

the Noble 
E h u d
and blew himselfup."

Sanctuary and to Barak. That 
Jews as the was attrib­
Temple Mount 
Israeli guard uted to the -that violence 
Israeli-

was sparked a 
Palestinian 

month ago by a p a e
e c 

visit by hard-line moves and 
Israeli politician 
the sides' 

Ariel Sharon. Since then, clash­security cooperation. 
es has left almost 130 people 
With peace efforts now in 

dead, mostly Palestinians. 
ruins, Israeli security officials 

Security forces also feared a warn of an escalation of the 
fresh outbreak of violence in conflict. They point out that 
the West Bank and Gaza. 
Palestinian authorities have 

Israeli reports said Muslim mil­released dozens of Islamic mili­
itants have called on 
tants from jails and have put

Palestinians to turn each 
security links on hold. 

Friday into a "day of rage" and While the army blocked the 
attack Israelis after the midday main road in Gaza with a tank 
prayers. 
and uprooted olive trees that 

Israeli officials were also con­Palestinians could use for cover 
cerned about an escalation 
to fire on the isolated base. 

after the first suicide bombing hundreds of people descended 
since the wave of clashes 
on the Araeer family home in 

between Israeli troops and 
Gaza City to offer condolences. 

Palestinian protesters began. 
Elsewhere in the West Bank 

On Thursday, Nabil Araeer, 
and Gaza, sporadic clashes 

24, loaded his backpack with 
were reported Thursday.

explosives and rode his bicycle involving youths. 

iN TWe ~eNiOQ. f'?AQ. cOU'2.TYA~. T'-1€ FUN B€GiN5 Ar 10:JO A.t--1. n-li5 ~ArUt20AV.
TIP 10FF 2000 
{;.() l~l~Hlll
Friday, Oc-tober 2 7 
............... 
Immeaiat:ely Following t:he pep rally, 
Susan Kilty, Saint Mar,'s Graduate of2000 and cul'rent Indiana Governor's Fellow will be on campus Friday, October
cat:ch the 2000-01 basketball teams in 
27, 2:00 to 4:00 pm in the Hesburgh Library Concourse lo
action in a co-ed scrimmage. 
explain the:· 
GOVERNOR'S FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
Check out the two National Player ofthe Year canttidat:es., 
Troy Murphy ana Rut:h Riley. 
•

Tailored for college graduales who received their bachelor's degree in fn112000or
S-tuaen-t Issue 
spring 2001. 
• Runs during the f!scal year, which is from July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002.
October 31, November 1, 2 
• Experience four J:month long r.otations in various state agencies.
Joyce Cenf:er -Gate 1 O 
• Eam acompedtive salary pl111 full fringe benefits. 
• Learn from amentor who is well respected in their field.
9am-5pm 

• Make key contacts in both the public and private sector. 
• Fonn friendships with other fellows who share the experience ofjus1 entering the
First 1,500 st:uaent:s to purchase a 
workforce. 

booklet: will receive a free ''MOB'' t-shirt. 
• Discover the inll'illSic value ofpublic serviCe ln Indiana. 
Appllcali011$ wW be available this falL ll'or ID applkalloo contact Healber Macek,
GET YOUR IRISH UP 
Program Director at 317-232-4567 or checlt us out on the web 11 http;/{mrw,lf,orlfaov, 
LA County, union agree on contract 
comes after a long, difficult strugglo, but the
Associated Press 
struggle has P~.id off and was worth all the sweat and tears. LOS ANGELES The agreement covers 39,000 employees and Los Angeles County and the union represent­
. comes after county workers staged a series of 
ing 47,000 public service workers have reached one-day walkouts and a general strike Oct. 11. 
tentative agreement on a contract covering a They went back to work the following day, and 
majority of the union's members. 
negotiations renewed at the behest of Roman 
Clerks, welfare workers, hospital technicians, Catholic Cardinal Roger Mahony. who said the 
road maintenance laborers and other employees 
strike hurt society's most vulnerable. will receive raises that start at 9 percent over 
"This agreement helps ensurn that the county
three years, union and county officials said 
continues to be a desirable, competitive employ­Thursday. Most will see their pay increased er that pays each of its employees a wage that is 
between 11 percent and 14.5 percent over the commensurate with their duties," county Chief 
life of the contract. 
Administrative Officer David Janssen said. County negotiators,, had held firm on a 9 per­
Still to be resolved arc contracts with about 
cent across-the-board increase, while union offi­
8,000 librarians and health care workers,
cials originally sought 15 percent. 
including registered nurses and clinical psychol­
"This is a huge victory. Our members, espe­ogists. · cially the ones that have been around for 
Pay varies for the county's unionized employ­
awhile, are saying this is the best contract ees. Many health workers make $50,000 or thev've seen in their lifetime," said Bart Diener, 
more a year, but the union says about 60 per­assistant general manager for Service cent of the county's employees make less than 
Employees International Union Local 660. "It $32,000 annually. · 
State may takeover Philly schools 
Thursday night without an September.
Associated Press 
agreement. Street has· asked the City Earlier Thursday, the Council to allot up to $45 mil­PHILADELPHIA 
mayor had expressed opti­lion from the city's surplusAs Philadelphia teachers 
mism that a deal would be for an enhanc.ed teachers'prepared to walk off the job reached by the time children contract.
Friday over stalled contract 
are to return to school State law allows the gover­
talks, the governor said he Monday. But a Philadelphia nor to take over the city's
would consider a state 
Federation of Teachers offi­schools if the school board
takeover of the city schools if cial said the sides remained does not produce a valid bud­the mayor requests it. 
far apart. get or state officials deter­Gov. Tom Ridge and Mayor The teachers' old contract mine that the city is not ade­John Street prefer a negotiat­expired Sept. 1, and they quately educating pupils.
ed settlement but are not 
have been working under Ridge wants a contract that
likely to tolerate a lengthy 
terms imposed by the city. includes significant educationstrike. The two met this week 
The Philadelphia reforms, saying it will helpabout the possibility of a Federation of Teachers is the city make its case for
takeover. 
chafing at the new rules, winning more school funds
''I told the mayor I would 
which raise co-payments and from the state Legislature.
have to give it very, very 
deductibles for health insur­Teachers announc~d
strong consideration if he ance. The teachers also Monday that they plan to
asked me, and I assured him oppose the district's decision walk off the job at the end of
that it would certainly be 
to lengthen the work day and the day Friday unless a con­friendly," Ridge said. 
school year starting next tract agreement is rea~hed. 
Contract talks ended late 

M~A AWl--iM, Q-UDeNT5, fAt--filie5, Ar-JD f'2.ieND5 'fOU'Q.e ifvVireD TO T~e M~A TAiLGAT€ LOCATED 

page 10 Friday, October 27, 2000
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Lieberman refuses to drop Senate bid 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. 
Come Nov. 8, in all likelihood, foseph Lieberman will still have a government job. With his refusal to drop his Senate re-election 
bid, the Jnly ques­tion is .vhcther it's .he job of vice presi­dent or that 
•>f a L'nited :~tatcs sen­

,ttor. Lieberman Friday 
was the legal deadline for him 
1.0 drop from the Connecticut :1cnate race and make way for another Democratic candidate on the ballot. Rut Lieberman, who is way ahead in the polls, i:aid emphatically that he woulrl not drop out. 
"I really think it would, in many ways, be an act of bad 

]Report: Hackers break iinto Microsoft network 
Associa1cd Press 

NEW YORK 
Hackers reportedly broke into Microsoft Corp.'s computer net­work and may have stolen blueprints to the latest versions or the rnmpany's Wiqdows and Office software. 
Microsoft and the FBI are investigating the break-in, which was discovered Wednesday by the software giant's security employees, The Wall Street Journal reported on its Web site Friday, citing people familiar with the situation. 
Security employees discovered that passwords used to transfer the source code behind Microsoft's software were being sent from the company's computer network in Redmond, Wash., to an e­nail account in St. Petersburg, Russia, the Journal reported. 
A Microsoft spokesman confirmed that the company's corporate 
r. etwork had been hacked and said "the integrity of Microsoft source code remains secure," the newspaper reported. The identities of the hackers are unknown. They are believed to 11 ave had access to the software codes for three months. 
A person familiar with the break-in told the Journal that it appeared the hackers accessed Microsoft's system by e-mailing software, called QAZ Trojan, to the company's network and then opening a so-called back door through the infected computer. 
Microsoft was planning lo investigate the break-in without help from U.S. authorities. the Journal reported, but the company con­tacted the FBI on Thursday. 

Notre Dame Circle K 
Over 20 weekly projects at varying times to fit your schedule! 
Contact: Rottenbom.2@nd.edu www.nd.edu/~circlek 

faith if I pulled out at this point," Lieberman said Thursday, noting that absentee ballots had already gone out in Connecticut. "I promised no October surprises, and there will be none." 
Waterbury Mayor Philip Giordano, the Republican chal­!.cn ger ,.. called the decision 
selfish. 

"I think the people of the state of Connecticut ought to stand up and take notice that this man is not only being self­ish in running for two offices, but he has taken the voters of Connecticut for granted by not participating in the democratic process," Giordano said Thursday. 
Lieberman has campaigned one day in his home state. August. 
Giordano has taken to calling Lieberman "No Show Joe" and last week staged a mock debate with a cardboard cutout of Lieberman. 
Clinton, GOP in tax cut battle 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Republicans warn that if President Clinton delivers on his promise to veto a tax-cut package and a spending bill t h a t 
revamps immigra­tion laws it will hurt Democrats· prospects in the Nov. 7 elections. 
Defiant 

GOP lead-Clinton ers hoped to push both measures through the Senate on Friday, a day atler a divided House approved the spending bill by 206-198 and the tax legislation by 237 -17 4. 
Both votes fell short of the two-thirds majorities needed to reverse a presidential veto. Even so, the brewing con­frontation seemed likely to draw public attention to this year's long-running budget fight, just as it was looking as if Congress might finally com­plete its business and adjourn quietly -less than two weeks from Election Day. 
Clinton's veto threat on a $39.9 billion measure financing the departments of Commerce, Justice and State for 2001 focused on the GOP's failure to overhaul immigration laws as broadly as Clinton wants. 
The president would grant amnestv to all aliens who arrived illegally before 1986, while Republicans would ease restrictions for some close rela­tives of permanent residents and let others with long-run­ning disputes over their immi­gration. "Hispanics who are here legally abhor aliens who 


candidate for PNC. 
PNC ptomises our diMts th;it w~ will listen to tht""rr1 arid address their individual nteds. So hiring proplr-with qu:ilities like St.;~ is a must In c:w:c:haf'lg~, we offer room to think outside of the box, tlexibie career paths and a 
supportiv, environment. Need one rnore: rea,;on to 5T:ay 
with us in Pittsburgh? Our city is ranked among the most livable in the country. with ~ore cuhur;tl attract/om per capita lhcm dnywhc:n: r.:l:,c in the riauon! 
:; t• (-• ~' . ; ' -1 l ._:' I·.:·-:•c: •.: •,;: ••-1 >'. •! . • -1 V I 
·we have qrc~,t manasicmcnt-track pusitions in the following :1rc:1s. 
• 
l'inam:c • Corpor:1tc Banking 

• 
Internships 



RSVP to: collcge.rccruiting@pncbanlc.com This session is required for all students sc-lec:ted for intt!'vfews :ind i5 opt:n to all Accounting. Finanrc and Busirits-s Marla~cmient students iritcrestca in an 
inter'iship with PNC. 


are here illegally," Jlouse Majority Whip Tom DeLay, H­Texas, told a reporter. "You're going to see the (poll) numbers in California go just like this," he added, moving one hand up and the other down. 
Most public opinion polls in 
California show Democrat Al 
Gore leading Republican 
George W. Bush by a tangible 
but shrinking margin in the 
presidential race. 

Clinton said the GOP fell 
short. 

"Current Hepublican propos­
als would not help most of the 
people who need relief and 
would perpetuate the current 
patchwork of contradictory and unfair immigration poli­cies," he said in a letter to GOP leaders. 
Besides seeking amnesty, Clinton wants permanent resi­dency for political ref'ugees from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Haiti. lie also would let some applicants for 
permanent residency avoid having to return home to await a final deci­sion. 
Clinton also complained that the bill ignored his plans to pay legal costs of the govern­ment's law­suit against the cigarette 

industry and to expand hate crime protections to cover vic­tims chosen for their sexual preference. 
The tax bill would cut taxes by $240 billion over the next 10 years for some small business­es, people saving for retirement and others, and gradually raise 
"Current Republican proposals would not help most ofthe people who need relief and would perpetuate the current patchwork of contradictory and unfair immigration policies." 
Bill Clinton president 
Hastert said. 
The spending bill provides $618 million for land conserva­tion and wildlife programs for coastal states as well as mil­lions of dollars for the fishing industry, and provisions help­ing broadcasting and telecom­munications interests. 
the $5.15 hourly minimum wage by $1 by January 2002. It also would erase $30 billion in cuts planned for the next five years in Medicare reimburse­ments for health-maintenance organizations, hospitals and other health care providers. 
Clinton said the tax package contained less than he wanted for bonds linancing school con­struction, breaks for hnlping people afford health care and long-term care ol' relatives, and pension provisions. Ile also said IIMOs would be treated too generously without being required to remain in Medicare, which some of them would like to leav11. 
"You chose to put forward a partisan legislative package that ignon)s our k11y concerns," he wrote. 
In a brief interview, llous1~ Speaker Dennis Hastert, H-111 .. said that if Clinton vetoed the tax measure, it probably would not be resurrected, spelling the 
end of' popu­lar provi­sions for the minimum w a g e , health care, and more generous pensions, individual retirement accounts and 401(k) accounts. 
"That's a lot of good stuff," 

Friday, October 27, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 11 
Gore saves $23M for final push 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Al Gore put away $23.1 mil­lion to spend during the final stretch of the campaign, hop­ing to offset the Republican Party's 
c a s h advantage over the Democrats. 
In the last look at campaign spending before the 


Nov. 7 Gore election, 
Gore reported to the federal Election Commission on Thursday that he spent $18.1 
million bt>tween Oct. 1 and Oct. 18 -$1 million a day -with two-thirds of that. or $12.6 million, going for television commercials. lie had $23.1 million left of the $67.6 million in federal funds he received for the fall campaign. 
Spending figures for George 

W. Bush were not immediately available. 
At the same iime, the Republican National Committee reported that it had $32 million in the bank on Oct. 18, with $24.6 million of that raised under federal contribu­tion limits, meaning that it can be used to directly aid candi­dates. 
The party raised $19 million during the first 18 days of the month, or more than $1 mil­lion a day, from 300,000 con­tributors. 
"Governor Bush's positive message is resonating with Americans and ,their contribu­tions to the party and the ticket are the proof," Republican National Chairman Jim Nicholson said. 
The Democratic National Committee did even better than the GOP in raising money, taking in $22.6 million between Oct. 1-18. But the party still trails the Republicans in the size of its bank account. The DNC reported a bank balance of $27 million, of which $18.1 million was raised under fed­eral limits. The party also had debts of $5.8 million, giving it a net surplus of $21.2 million. 
The DNC raised another $3.5 million Tuesday at a concert held at the Wildhorse Saloon in Nashville, featuring Billy Ray Cyrus, Tony Bennett and 

"While we will never 
P a t t y National Loveless. have as much money H.epublir.an Both Gore as the Republicans, Senatorial and running Committee
this election is about 
mate Joseph reported a bank Lieberman issues and getting balance of $3.6 attended. you message out to million. two­
"While \.Ve thirds raised
the voters. " 
will never under federal have as much limits. The NRSC money as the Jenny Backus also received $1 Republicans. million this week 
DNC spokeswoman
this election is about issues and getting your mes­sage out to the voters," DNC spokeswoman Jenny Backus said. 
Even so, Gore campaign aides said the vice president had put away money for the final push, concerned about the Republicans' cash advan­tage. 
In the competitive race for the House, where the Democrats need just eight seats to guarantee that they will pick the next speaker, the National Republican Congressional Committee reported having $25 million in the bank as of Oct. 18, includ­ing $13.3 million raised under federal limits. Since then, the Bush campaign contributed $1 million and vice-presidential nominee Dick Cheney head­lined an Ohio fund-raiser Thursday that brought in another $600,000. 

Helping to fill the coffers were members of the House GOP majority, who more than met their fund-raising goal of $16 million. contributing more than $18 million to the NRCC. 
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee officials did not make their fund-rais­ing figures available Thursday. On the Senate side. the 
from the Bush 
campaign. 

The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee had $2.8 million in the bank on Oct. 18, half of it raised under federal limits. 
Spokesmen for both commit­tees said the balances were so low because they already had bought most of their advertis­ing time for the election. But they also had enough funds for some last-minute purchases; the NRSC on Thursday spent $600,000 on ads in support of Rep. Bob Franks of New Jersey, running for an open Senate seat against millionaire Jon Corzine. 
Republicans criticize anti-Bush phone calls 
Associated Press 
LANSING. Mich. 

Michigan residents am get­ting taped phone calls from Texans and actor Ed Asner say­ing George W. Hush breaks promises and would harm Social Security ­calls that GOP leaders say show a desperate Al Gore. 
In one call, Charlotte Cherry of Houston says that "Governor Bush has accepted $1.3 million from corporate polluters and he's allowed them to keep pol­luting while my kids suffer." 
In another, Ann Friday of Arlington, Texas, says that her husband died after neglect in a nursing home four years ago and that Hush has signed legis­lation that has weakened rather than strengthened nursing home regulations. 
Asner's calls say that "George 
W. Bush has a proposal that would undermine Social Security, even scuttling current benefits." . 
GOP Gov. Engler called the phone calls "a stealth campaign designed to be below the radar and designed to appeal to fears or prejudices." 
"These are not advocacy calls," he said. "These are designed to put a bad taste in someone's mouth." 
The Michigan Democratic Coordinated Campaign paid to have the calls by Cherry and Friday recordAd and sent auto­matically to Michigan voters' phones, said spokesman Chad Clanton. 


The Asner call, which is not being made anymore, was sent out bv tho Democratic National Comrnittee and Michigan Democratic Party. 
The so-called "push calls" are the first in Michigan during this year's general election, but they are not the first in the state this year. 
In the days leading up to the Peb. 22 Republican presidential primary, the campaign of Sen. John McCain of Arizona paid for calls suggesting Bush was anti-Catholic after Bush spoke at Hob Jones University. 
At the same time, Christian Coalition founder Pat Robertson made taped phone calls to Michigan households accusing a top McCain adviser of being "a vicious bigot" who called con­servative Christians "anti-abor­tion zealots, homophobes and would-be censors." 
McCain won the Michigan pri­mary. and some analysts said the phone calls backfired. 
A poll released Thursday by EPIC/MRA of Lansing and con­ducted for the Detroit Free Press and WXYZ-TV in Southfield had Gore at 44 per­cent and Bush at 42 percent two weeks before the election, with a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points. 
Cherry, who taped the cur­rent phone call on pollution, said in a telephone interview that she has voted for both Republicans and Democrats in the past. 

t"~ffil'.@®~•~;@:;~:d:~©l:. @ 
~II! 
Ji 

S!lafe Theate 
s.:.·)_;::.·_:.:.1.:.b.· o.•.·.•.·.•·.·.:.:·:·.•·.·.:.. ..•·.·.·.:..n ..:.···•.·.:.. ·.•·•:·•.•·:::.·.·.:.•: ..... .
-• .•.·· ··· ~........··.•.m :;;:::·::::::::-:::-=):/}fi):d::~:fr;;:\f:::\::::::f'.!f:~ 


>fM night AND Tomarr 
~:;:;:::;&-;'.;;;:/:~:;~
•'•'•' ,•,•··· •. ;:•:;:;:;:. :;>~•:-:-:.:-:

You are cordially invited to meet with Sherry Gilman Associate Director ofAdmissions 

1 Georgetown University Law Center 
Still wai at killer test score to n some cash? 
Thursday, November 2, 2000 
101 0 'Shaughnessy 


Here's your c~ance! 
Room 204 

Call 1-888-5&1-8378 or 
6:00 p.m. 

email info.cHicago@review.com TJie for a teaching position today! ( Pf:.inceton 
Forfurther information please contact: 
·... Review
Ava Preacher Asst. Dean, College ofArts and Letters 
www~eom----~*1.888.581.8378 


THE FOLLOWING EVENTS ARE HAPPENING AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE: Author Events: 
Meet Notre Dame's new head basketball coach, Mike Brey, ' 
on Friday, October 27 from 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. 
Friday, Oct. 27 from 3:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., Dan 
Devine will sign copies of his new book, Simply Devine. 
Friday, Oct. 27 from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., University 
_ of Notre Dame President Father Malloy will be signing copies of his book, Monk's Reflections. 
Saturday, Oct. 28 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m., Professor Robert Burns will sign copies of Being Catholic, Being American: The Notre Dame Story, Volume 2. 
Saturday, Oct. 28 from 9:30 a.m. to 11 :30 a.m., former Notre Dame Coach Dan Devine, with co-author Michael Steele, will sign copies of Simply Devine: Memoirs OJA Hall ofFame Coach. 
Saturday, Oct. 28 from 11:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., Irish born Sarah Kirwan Blazek, now a teacher in Chicago, will> read in her charming accent, An Irish Halloween. Her book signing will alsp include An Irish Night Before Christmas and An Irish St. l!!atrick's Day. 
Monday, Oct. 30 from 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m., acclaimed. author Alex Kotlowitz will discuss and sign copies Are No Children Here and The Other Side ofthe River. 
HAMMES 
Monday, Oct. 30 at 7:00 p.m., Therese Johnson Q \A ~ A' 
BorchardwiMdisctiss and sign copies of I Like Being N ·TRE>>I),,0.+.v1E 
~:t~=~d:t~~:r~~:.~~i~:~s~~t~;:~~~l~;_a~:~:h:~~~~~~~ ~~ 
1 N ·.·TH e e:c•·•·Kft :aJ.e: 1i,.-e;1a;fr 
an undergraquate degree from Saint Mary's Col.lef?lH1 I 
M.A. in theofogy from Notre Dame. She is the author of seven books 
Storytim~ f~~fµre~!ricks and Treats galore Tuesday~/ 
Oct. 31 at>l:1':oo· a.m. 

Friday, October 27, 2000 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Senate passes health legislation 
As•o~iated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Senate passed a $919.5 million bill Thursday intended to improve the nation's ability to respond to a bioterrorist attack, modernize federal dis­ease labo­ratories and move toward placing heart delib­ri lla tors in all federal buildings. 
"This comprehensive legisla­tion contains a variety of public health bills that will help to improve the health and safety of all Americans," said Sen. Bill Frist, R-Tcnn , a physician. 
In separate action, lawmak­ers were poised to send the president a package that boosts outreach programs for the elderly. 
But the health care action was overshadowed by 

President Clinton's vow to Vf'tO a Medicare package. The $30 billion package aims to boost payments to health care providers who say 1997 budget cuts went too far. 
"You insist on an unjustifi­able spending increase for HMOs," Clinton said in n. Thursday letter. 
Clinton complains the mea­sure gives managed care com­panies too much without enough accountability. The president, hoping to deter HMOs from dropping out of Medicare, wants provisions forcing managed care compa­nies to stay in the program ­which benefits elderly and the disabled -at least three years. 
The Medicare package faced problems over a provision granting t'he Congressional Budget Office access to federal census and tax records. The CBO wanted it to make long­term projections about Social Securily and Medicare pro­grams. 
The Commerce Department maintains it violates census­related privacy protections. 



There were also complaints from at least one Republican over a provision added by House Speaker Dennis Hastert to give states more time tu end any use of a loophole in the Medicaid law that lets states collect billions in extra dollars. 
Illinois is a major benefactor of the loophole, and the Department of Health and Human Services recently issued ·a proposed rule that phases out the loophole over five years. 
Sen. William Roth, the Finance Committee chairman, issued a statement saying, "It makes too many special accom­modations to those states that have abused the system." 
The "mini-bus" package, a compilation of several health bills introduced this session, passed the Senate by unani­mous consent Thursday. The House planned to take it up later in the day. 
A major portion of the bill authorizes $540 million to strengthen the nation's ability to deal with serious public health threats such as antimi­
crobial resistance and bioterrorist attacks. 
It provides grants to study how well public health agen­cies respond to disease out­breaks, coordinates efforts between federal agencies and authorizes the National Institutes of Health and Centers for Disease Control to develop new vaccines for biological weapons. 
The heart defibrillator provision allows the Health and Human Services Department to make recom­mendations on placing these external devices in federal buildings. It also protects helpers from liability. 
PlayStation2 sales cause some scuffles 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

When it came to getting your hands on a Sony PlayStation2, it didn't pay to be polite. 
With the company already acknowledging it can't meet demand because of parts shortages, consumers resorted to whatever tactics necessary to nab whatever was on the shelves when the widely-antic­ipated video-gaine console went on sale Thursday. 
In some cases, that meant picking fights with retailers' security guards or pushing their way into the front of the line at 3 a.m. Others mapped out a clear-cut strategy before parking them­selves on line, 
calling around "We heard that if 
ny," said James to stores, surf­you didn't get it Reyes, 30. who ing the Web, waited all night
today, we'll have to
and trying to outside the
wait 'til Christmas.
network with Circuit City store friends who So we need to get on Manhattan's work in elec­Upper East Side, 
it now."
tronic stores. despite being 
Whatever the hobbled by a method, thou­Brian Jones broken leg. "A sands of people, Dallas shopper few us got 
from hard-core gamers in their 20s and 30s to grandmothers looking to buy PlayStation2 for their grandchildren, went home angry -and empty­handed. 
Scuffles even broke out at some locations. ·In Minot, N.D., police were called to a Wal­Mart store after receiving reports of people threatening others waiting in line for the console. 
In Woodstock, Ga., north­west of Atlanta, two eager cus­tomers were ticketed for disor­basis before the doors opened to prevent a stampede. 
"We heard that if you didn't get it today, we'll have to wait 'ti! Christmas. So we need to get it now," said Brian Jones, 24, a game designer from Dallas, who was the first per­son in line at a North Dallas Best Buy and had been wait­ing since 6 p.m, the prior evening. 
Other shoppers took things in stride and created parties of their own, ordering pizza and watching the World Series on miniature TVs as they camped out all night. Customers them­selves tried to keep the peace by organizing the lines and keeping tabs on when people showed up. 
"We are trying 
to create harmo­
together and 

organized a very tight line." 
It worked in his favor. Reyes, who describes himself as a game addict, was one of only' 10 out of 60 in line who was able to get a PlayStation2. 
PlayStation2 signals a new generation of consoles, where consumers can eventually play DVD movies, download music, play games with their friends in another city, and do some surfing -all through their TV sets. 
Sony had already warned 







derly conduct late Wednesday that a parts shortage would night by police as they waited limit its initial shipment of the to buy PlayStation2 at Wal­widely anticipated entertain­
Thinking about ei @Pring ~imi&;trz.r in1irnihip? 11ri gou int~nz~trz.d 
Mart when it went on sale at ment system. Sony had to 
midnight. halve the number of consoles Most stores tried to do their to 500,000 units that it could 
in go1Jimm¢nt? law? non..profiti? povirty &i hit=tlth? Thin bring 
part to prevent any chaos. provide to stores on the launch Some held midnight openings, date. inviting those who already Complicating matters was pre-ordered. Plenty of others, that many of the stores had like Best Buy and Circuit City, pre-sold their orders, leaving issued tickets for those on line few consoles on the shelves for on a first-come, first-serve consumers to fight over. 
gour nz.$umi to th!Z 
~P'RJN6 INTe'RN~ttlP f til'R. 
Three part-time positions 
Available at La Casa de Amistad 
La Casa de Amistad is in need of three dependable, 
4:00 to 6:00 p.m. 
energetic and organized individuals who are currently enrolled in classes. An education award is given with the completion of the required hours (20 hrs./week), in 
Gri~nfiild's Caf~ 
addition to your salary. Interested individuals do not have to be bilingual in English and Spanish. If inter­
(in the ttiiburgh Cint1Zr on Notriz <flame '(lvenui). 
ested, call: Adrianna Genera-Wurst or Carlos Baldizon Martini at (219) 233-2120. 
'Rizpr~intativei from loeel agrznelii will b~ on hand to eniwizr 
Computer Trainer 
We are seeking a computer knowledgeable and bilin­gual in English and Spanish individual who loves to teach for a part~time position (Mon. through Fri.). Requirements: Bachelor's degree or 2 yrs. of college in 
quiition~. reviiw re~amii end to hold intirviiW$. 
Jnternihlpi through thii 6overnmint ~ipo.rtmint eri unpeld ~nd rfl.eii'1i aeedimiC! 
graphic design or a computer related field, some experi~c:redit. 
ence with teacher, supervisory and organizational skills. 
Fax resume to: (219) 2.33-52 77 Or mail to: 746 South Thi ~prlng lntizmehip fair ii co-gpom~onzd by thi ~ipartmiznt of 6overnm~nt and 
Meade Street, South Bend, IN 46619 thfl ~r!l:ir Cintiir. 
l.~el4 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, October 27, 2000 
===================================================================================================== 
GERMANY 

~;tats show rise in clnti-Semitic crime 
Germany.
A..saciatcd P rcss 

On Thursday, officials in the 
western city of Cologne laid a 
BEHUN ceremonial cornerstone for 
Anti-Semitism is on the rise the first permanent Jewish 
again in Germany, new statis­theater to be built in Germany 
tics confirmed Thursday as since the end of World War n. 
authorities took the first step But leaders of the Jewish 
toward banning a far-right community have said contin­
party accused of fanning hate. ued violence may cause some 
"A country that had gas to question whether it was chi;mbers for the annihilation right to rebuild Germany's of millions of Jews cannot tol­Jewish community. erate organized anti­Anti-Semitic crimes doubled Semitism," Interior Minister in the three months from June Ott,:i Schily said Thursday at a to September of this year com­Duesseldorf meeting of minis­pared to the same period last ters from Germany's 16 states. year -from 146 to 291, 
In Duesseldorf and at a later according to statistics me,eting of state governors in released Thursday in parlia­the eastern city of Schwerin, ment. all but two states voted to ask The National Democratic the country's highest court to Party is implicated in that vio­ban the National Democratic lence and has become a threat Party. to German democracy, a 
The action is the govern­report from law enforcement ment's most visible response officials from across the coun­to Germany's worst wave of' try said in a 500-pagc report neo-Nazi violence since reuni­reviewed by interior ministers. fication a decade ago. The party is partly responsi­
A July bomb attack at a ble for a climate that creates Dunsseldorf train station "the basis for violent assaults injured 10 immigrants, six of by right-extremists on foreign­them Jewish, and plunged the ers and other minorities in nation into months of soul­Germany," said Fritz Behrens, searching about whether North !thine-Westphalia state Ger many has learned the interior minister and host of lessons of its Nazi past. the meeting. 
Germany's Jewish communi­Seeking a ban from ty has enjoyed an unforeseen Germany's constitutional court renaissance since the fall of could take years. communism, growing to Conservative-led Hesse and 85,000 from about 30,000 in Saarland states opposed the 1990. Immigrants from the ban, saying that driving the former Soviet Union have been National Democratic Party spurred by liberal laws underground would not solve encouraging Jews to return to the problem. 
CANADA 

Court hears alleged bomb plot 
sive materials audible over the sound sys­
• U.S. may have 

Government lawyers have tern during the 90-minute
been target during 

accused him and other session. 
New Year's fetes Algerian nationals of plan­Thursday's witness, ning to commit terrorist acts Bertholiny Eugene, gave con­during millennium celebra­fusing and sometimes contra­As•ociated Press tions. dictory information about The trial will be held in Los obtaining false passports for MONTREAL Angeles a Cameroon citi­With the accused staring beginning in zen whose name
"/ don't think he 
out of a video screen and a March due to has never come 
U.S. judge conducting the extensive would like to make up in the case. hearing, prosecutors and pretrial pub­Eugene insisted
bombs in the United 
lawyers questioned Canadian licity in the he never had 
witnesses Thursday about an Seattle area. States. It is not true." seen Hessam alleged plot to bomb U.S. tar­The need to before. gets during millennium cele­interview Similar depo­
Kamal Dahoumane 
brations. Canadian sitions have
suspect's brother
In the unusual proceedings, witnesses been taken in Ahmed Hessam, 32, sat in created the Vancouver, Seattle between a lawyer and unusual situation of the U.S. British Columbia. interpreter, who leaned over judge conducting a hearing Two alleged accomplices in to translate the proceedings under U.S. law on foreign soil the case -Abdel Ghani from the Montreal courtroom. as provided under a treaty Meskini and Mokhtar Haouari 
Ressam, a Montreal resi­between the two nations. -are awaiting trial in New dent of Algerian origin who "This is unusual because York on charges of' conspiring was arrested Uec. 14 while there's a lot of civilian wit­lo support a terrorist group crossing into the United nesses in this case that are and conceal support for States from from Canada Hcssam. Canada, and beyond On Wednesday in the
"This is unusual because 
watched a the reach of Montreal courtroom, Kamal video monitor there's a lot of civilian the U.S. jus­Dahoumane denied that his of the witnesses in this case tice system," brother Abdelmajid 
Canadian said Tom Dahoumane who is
that are from Canada
courtroom as Hillier. a accused of helping Hessam seen by U.S. and beyond the reach of lawyer for prepare bomb-making mate­District Judge the U.S. justice system." Ressam. rials in Vancouver -was a J o h n T h e terrorist. Coughenour Canadian Abdelmajid Dahoumane is a 
rows of Tom Hillier folks can fugitive -U.S. officials have lawyers and Canadian lawyer subpoena offered a $5 million reward witnesses. their citizens for information leading to his 
W h e n to come to capture. Ressam was arrested, bomb­this court." "I don't think he would like making materials were found On the monitor, Ressam to make bombs in the United in the trunk of the car he was looked small and thin. His States," Kamal Dahoumane driving. dark hair was cut short with said. "It is not true." 
The charges he faces long sideburns, and he wore When asked where his include plotting a terrorist a light button-down shirt and brother was now, he replied. attack and possessing explo-khaki pants. lie said nothing "Somewhere out there." 


222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 
¦¦¦ Notre Dame Center 
¦ II¦ for Ethics andReligious ¦ ¦ ¦ Values in Business 
Proudly Presents 
Jack Breen 
(Retired) Chairman and CEO ofthe Sherwin Williams Company 
INFLUENCING VALUES IN AMERICAN CORPORATIONS 
Tuesday, October 31, 2000 Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 7:00 p.m. 
Made possible by CARGILL 

FALL BREAKALERT. .. 
Do not forget to bring back your coats from hoD1e! 

Begins Monday, October 23, 2000! 
Collection sites 
GQ'R
include: 


~ SOCIAL
-all residence halls P O ";_~ I : CONCERNS -Center for Social Concerns -Hanunes Bookstore -NDH and SDH Share the -1\tlain Building -and others Warmth! 
Friday, October 27, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 15 
ZIMBABWE 

President threatens to try whites 
Associated Press 
HARARE 
With lhe opposilion trying to impeach him and his popularity at an all-time low. President Hobert Mugabe has lashed out at Zimbabwe's white minority, Lhreatening genocide trials for all who fought against him in the independence war. 
Mugabe told supporters Wednesday that Ian Smith, the white leader he helped over­throw two decades ago, and all whites who fought against black guerrillas would face tri­als for war crimes. 
"Ian SmiLh and his fellow whites committed genocide during our liberation war. They will stand trial for their crimes," Mugabe said. 
Smith, 81, was the last white leader of the former British colony of Rhodesia, as Zimbabwe was known before independence. 
He was in Britain on a lecture tour Thursday, his son Alec said, 
Mugabe said the nation's 70,000 whites -less than 1 percent of the population of 13 million -mostly opposed his government and had spurned offers of forgiveness and recon­ciliation. 
"National reconciliation is greatly threatened by the whites. We should revoke it. After all, in Europe they are still hunting for those behind Nazi war crimes, and Zimbabwe cannot be an excep­tion," Mugabe said. 
About 40,000 mostly black lighters died in the seven-year bush war that led to indepen­dence in 1980. 
Namibian President Sam 

Nujoma declared his support Thursday for Mugabe's plans during a press conference in Botswana. 
Nujoma said the root of Zimbabwe's problem was that Britain had reneged on its promise to give the country funds to buy land from white farmers for redistribution it to landless blacks. 
Britain, which pledged nearly $55 million for land reform at independence in 1980, deliv­ered nearly 90 percent of that money before freezing the fund in 1990. 
It said Zimbabwe violated .the 
agreement by forcing unwilling farmers to sell their land to the state. 
Opposition leaders con­demned Mugabe's statemenL'> and said he could hold tri­als only after repealing 

"Ian Smith and his 
enforce law and fellow whites committed order to end 
independence-era amnesty clauses in the constitution, a move that could backfire. 
"This opens a Pandora's box," said David Coltart, a white law­maker for the opposition Movement for Democratic Change. "The abuses by the guerrilla forces would have to come under equal scrutiny." 
Mugabe specifically named Coltart -a longtime human rights activist who was a harsh critic of the Rhodesian govern­ment -as one of those who should be investigated. 
Coltart's party on Wednesday asked parliament to impeach Mugabe, the same day a poll 
Chile Program 
Are you interested in serving in Chile after Graduation? 
• 
Live in a faith-based community 

• 
Language School Provided 

• 
2+ year commitment 



was rnleased showing that 75 percent of Zimbabweans want Mugabe to rP.sign and 51 per­cent want him prosecuted for human rights abuses. 
The government called the impeachment motion "frivo­lous." 
Parliament speaker Emmerson Mnangagwa told lawmakers Thursday he would appoint a committee to look into the impeachment question. 
He gave no schedule for debate. 
The motion to impeach accus­es Mugabe of failing to uphold his presidential oath to observe the constitution and failing to 
genocide during our lib­. eration war. They will still stand trialfor their crimes. " 
Robert Mugabe Zimbabwe president 
government cor­ruption and to stop political violence sur­rounding the June parliamen­tary elections. 
At least 32 people were killed and 10,000 were left 

homeless by election violence blamed mostly on ruling party supporters. 
The impeachment motion also alleges Mugabe committed human rights abuses in crush­ing an armed rebellion in the western Matabeleland province. 
At least 20,000 people, most of them civilians, were killed after Mugabe deployed troops from his majority Shona tribe to crush rebels of the minority Ndebele ethnic group in 1982. 
Since February, Mugabe has ordered police not to intervene to end ruling party militants' illegal occupation o.f 1,700 white-owned farms. 
HoLvCRossA!socIATES 
Information Meeting 
Monday, October 30 @ 6pm 
Center for Social Concerns Applicants must let us know oftheir intent to apply by Nov. 10th Applications are due Dec. 1, 2000 · 

http:IIVtf~'!fe.1 ~;~~c~fs;~5~assoc/
~0 nd.hcassoc.1 @nd.edu 


The 
ofHCA 
Service 
• Spirituality 
Simple Lifestyle Community Living 

ENGLAND 
Museums search for Nazi-looted works 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
A luminous Degas oil. A darkened miniature from a 15th-century prayer book. A pair of views of a double­masted 18th-century sailing ship. 
Britain's museums and gal­leries, seeking to establish that their collections are free of Nazi-looted art, are appealing for public help in researching the backgrounds of hundreds of works whose whereabouts during World War II are uncertain. 
On Thursday, a consortium of institutions -including the Hritish Museum. the National Gallery, the Tate Gallery and the Victoria Albert Museum know, and we
"People could have
-posted a list don't know how of 600 pieces of the smallest pieces it came to be in art from their 
ofinformation that that antique
collections on shop. We don't
could be crucial for 
the Internet and even know urged anyone us in deJermining whic·h antique 
with knowledge where a piece of shop it was." 
of where the Another mys­
art was ... " 
works were tery-shroudedbetween 1933 work is a valu­and 1945 to Sir Nicholas Serota able oil paint­come forward. ing by
committee chairman
"People could have the small­est pieces of information that could be crucial for us in determining where a piece of art was" before and during the Holocaust, said Sir Nicholas Serota, chairman of a British committee set up to investigate the issue of Nazi­looted art. 
An exhaustive search of Britain's national museums launched last year has failed to establish that any items in their collections were wrongly appropriated during World War II. But 600 works are under a cloud because no reliable record exists of their wartime history. 
Eight months ago, the museums published a list of 350 items whose where­abouts could not be estab­lished before and during the war. Some have since been removed because their pedi­grees were established, but others were added in the interim. 
The latest additions include a valuable miniature of a cru­cifix from a 15th-century Latin prayer book, now held by the British Library -one of more than 80 million works in its possession. It was acquired in the mid-1970s from a now-deceased buyer who said he had bought it at an antique shop that in turn had acquired it from a clergy­man in southern England. 
"We have no reason to believe that ... it ever left the British Isles," said Alice Prochaska, the library's director of special collections. 
"But we don't 
Impressionist 
master Edgar Degas, "Lady with a Parasol," painted between 1870 and 1872. It was bequeathed to Britain's Courtauld Institute gallery· in 1978. Researchers know it came via a Paris col­lection, but cannot establish when it changed hands. 
Also being investigated is a painting held by the National Maritime Museum, signed by a T. Boone or F. Boone, por­traying an 18th-century brig­antine, or double-masted sail­ing ship. 
So far, the museums have received only one claim of possible misappropriation ­an 18th-Century oil painting titled "View of Hampton Court Palace" attributed to Jan Griffier the Elder and held by the Tate Gallery. That claim is being assessed. 


.. Studentleases Available 
. ,;._ . '''-:•,:•.~---_.,· -f:_i;;: ':" .__ ,•,~/:~~~\::,: /<:::t::,;.:: ·· .... <>:;_ 
~'Under $900 per Monttr ,., 4· Block$;, Ph1pi· Campus 2nd Serr)e,stQ,,Av~jlability 
~sThe Best Value In Off Ca111pus Living" 
Prefessio11any. Managed by 
Real _Estate Management Corp. 
"234-9923 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 16 BSERVER Friday, Ocrober 27, 2000 
l"'HE OBSERVER 
P 0. Box Q. Notre D2me, IN 46556 024 SQuth Dinioi; I la.II, Notre D,me. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MAN1,GING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 

AssT. M.~AGING EDITOR O1'F.RATIONS MANAGER 
Christine Kraly Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mauingly VIIWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORT'S EDITOR, Kerry Smith SCfNF. EDITOR• Amanda Gr.-co SAINT M.Akv's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR• EliU1berh Lang 

AoVER11SING MANAGER: Par Peters Ao DESIGN MANAGER, Chri• Avila SVSl"F.MS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROLl.ER: Bob Woods G :lAPHIC5 EDITOR: Jose Cud!Jr 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE lviANAGERIGF.NF.IW, INF0 ... ,,,,,,,,,,.631•7471 FAX.... .. .. . . .........631-6927 ADVERTISING .................. ,, ..... ,, .........63 l-6900/8840 
observN@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 

EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAssT. ME ................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE......................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWl'OU. T................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoinr.J@nd.edu  
SPORTS ...  .....................................631-4543  
obscrver.sports. l@nd.edu  
ScENE.....  ........................................631-4540  
observcr.scenc. l@nd.edu  

SAINT MARv'S.. ...........................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO......................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINl!>'TRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar hrtp:llob,erotr.nd.edu for daily updates ofcam pus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking ri<-ws from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute for<eeasts 
weekly srudent reviews 

advcrti,~ for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates of prinr ads 
cial campus coverage 

archive:, to search for 
about The Observer 

articlc:s 1•ub!ished afrer 
to meer the edicors and 

August 1999 
sraff 

POLICIES 
The Ob:;erver is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University •Jf Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ec.irorial cont<ent, including advertisements, is not govem"d by policies ofthe adminisrrarion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemc,nrs based on content. 
The neV1-s is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. U 1Signed editorials represent the opinion of the majorirrof 1he Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edicor and department editors. Commemarics, leners and columns present the views of the auch,m and not neccssuily those ofThe ob..,rver. 
Viewpoi ,t space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerrm to rhe Editor musr be signed and must .include contact inftmnarion. 
Qunfloni rrgarding Obstrvn-poli.-i~ ,hou/4 b~ dirw­d to Editor in Chu-fM1/u Connolly. 
Promote responsible socializing, amend bar law 
On Oct. 13, 147 people were issued classmates. Because Indiana laws pre­minor in tavern citations at Finnigan's vent anyone under the age of 21 from Irish Pub. Must of the Notre Dame and entering a tavern, students were forced Saint Mary's students in offense will be to break the law even if they had no given "pretrial diversion" which entails intention of drinking. · a $220 court fee and Indiana should adopt 40 hours of communi­OJhe an "18 to enter. 21 to ty service. Although userver drink" policy to solve the students knowing­this problem. This law ly broke the law and would allow social must be punished interaction at off-cam­
Editorial
accordingly. a re­examination of the laws regarding the off-campus social scene could prevent future large-scale arrests and curb underage drinking in off-campus bars. 
Finnigan's was more than just a place to drink. It was the place to be for many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. While many students did procure fake IDs in order to drink underage, many others sought access to Finnigan's as a chance to dance and socialize with their pus establishments 
without needing a fake JD. Such a law might actually cut down on underage drinking. 
Some underage students who drink lightly at the bars might stop drinking if they did not need to use a fake ID to access the bar. "18 to enter, 21 to drink" laws would also cut down on the number of students who have fake IDs but no intention of drinking. If underage non-drinkers could attend off-campus establishments without using a fake ID, they would not break the law by print­ing fake IDs. 
People attending the bar who arc 21 could be given a wristband alerting bar­tenders that they are legal to drink. Bartenders and establishment bouncers could better regulate the drinking done by minor attendants by checking for wristbands. 
While minors within the establish­ment might still drink by having friends who are legal buy them alcohol or pre­senting fake IDs, authorities within the bar could more easily detect underage drinkers by looking for wristbands. The absence of such demarcations among those drinking would alert officials of their status as underage drinkers. 
The implementation of an "18 to enter. 21 to drink" law would uphold the enforcement and regulation of underage drinking laws while fostering a social environment for adults 18 and older. 
Entering the election's home stretch 
The late Bob Prince, the Pittsburgh Pirates· legendary announcer, often described a play as, "close as the fuzz in a tick's ear." That description portrays the presidential polls between Vice President Al Gore and Texas Governor George 
W. Bush. Barring any major outside developments or October surprises, the outcome of the election should begin to come into focus by Monday. 

Elections evolve through cycles. The final phase encom­passes the last 10 days when voters tend to decide on their selections and trend lines begin to show in the polls. Today is the first of the final 10 days of the 2000 election. Weekend polling results released on Monday should shed some light on who has the momentum. That candidate will be the winner if outside forces do not interrupt the final days of the campaign. 
For Gore. stock market declines or fur­ther instability in the Middle East can be an outside force that sidetracks his cam­paign. For Bush, the recently released Rand report criticizing the Texas educa­tional progress may be the force that unravels his candidacy. President Clinton could also influence reactions favoring either candidate by making a policy mis­take that shows him weak or using mili­tary force against terrorists that shows him strong and decisive. 
At this point in time during the election 20 years ago between President Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan, the candidates were deadlocked in the polls. However, the voters had begun moving towards Reagan, so much so that Carter's pollster told the president on the Saturday before the election that he had lost. Similarly in 1992, President Bush was told of his fate 

during the weekend before his loss to Bill 
Clinton. 

Gore has begun a slight rise in the polls this week. overtaking Bush for the first time in many days. Was this rise the start of the final trend breaking for Gore or just a reflection of Gore's further consolidation of the Democratic base? Bush has consis­tently held his Republican base support in the high 80 percentage levels while Gore has gone from the high 70s into the low 80 percentage levels. Getting those core supporters to the polls will be crucial in this election. 
Women who favor Gore's positions have moved back and forth. first to Bush and now back to Gore. They have provided the vice president's advantage thus far. 
It appears that as election day looms, many are choosing presidential substance over presidential personality. Gun owners are enthusiastically reacting to the National Rifle Association's massive vilifi­cation of the vice president, keeping many of the battleground states into play for Bush. 
qosely watch the polls released on Wednesday next week. As the days of the campaign draw short, each day's momen­tum doubles in importance as more voters break with the final trend. If Gore contin­ues to hold the national lead in most or all of the polis on that day, he will be able to sustain the momentum until election day. If Bush regains his lead in most of the polls, you may be assured that he will win most battleground states the following week. 
Gore has the more formidable task in the electoral college. He must win nine of about 14 toss-up states. Election night may be decided early or late, depending if Washington and Oregon come into play. 
Given the currently "locked up" states, Gore and Bush have simple tasks. Gore must win four of the following states worth a minimum of 40 electoral votes: Tennessee, Wisconsin, Missouri, Minnesota and Washington. He must carry Pennsylvania (23). Illinois (22) and 
Michigan (18) along with New York, 
California, Maryland, New Jersey, the 
District of Columbia and Delaware. 
In New England, Gore must carry all but one state. Either Maine or New Hampshire (both worth four electoral votes) can go to Bush, but not both. And Gore must carry three of the following five states: Iowa. Oregon, Arkansas, West Virginia and New Mexico. 
This scenario concedes Florida (25), Ohio (21), Louisiana (9), Kentucky (8), Arizona (8) and Nevada (4) to Bush. However, should Gore win Florida, he could afford to lose one or two more of the "must states" listed above, but would in fact probably win the election regardless. 
Contrary to the belief that Missouri is key to the election, Pennsylvania and Michigan are absolute musts for Gore. Florida is an absolute must for Bush. For once, given that they come in accordingly, the west coast may finally determine a national election with Washington being the most crucial for Gore. Green Party candidate Halph Nader may tip that state and the election to Bush by pulling enough support from Gore. 
For political junkies, this year is heaven. For the staffs of the candidates, it has been a roller coaster ride with enough ups and downs to numb everyone. 
For me, my roller coaster will either take a huge surge upward or a depressing dive downward by the middle of next week. I will know the outcome from trending polls and subsequently watch my formula of states fall into place according­ly. My hope is that next week I can use the other famous Bob Prince line describing a Pirate homerun, "You can kiss it good­bye." 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is cur­rently assisting Vice President Gore's White House Empowerment Commission. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in thus column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'11 liberal is a person who believes that water can be made to run uphill. A conserva­tive is someone who believes everybody should pay for his water. I'm somewhere in between: I believe water should be free, but that it flows downhill." 
VIEWPOINT 
ruHE 

Friday, October 27, 2000 v~SERVER page 17 
POLITICAL FACE-OFF 
Differing approaches to utilize our armed forces 
Using the military to uphold American values 
The United States flag and all that it represents embody what it means to be American. As if the very words were ingrained in our hearts and minds, gen­erations of Americans have willingly sac­rificed their lives to uphold the sacred Clayton values we profess 
Swopes

each and every time we pledge allegiance 
College

to our flag. When 
Democrats

these universal rights of justice, freedom and unity are denied to humanity, the United States must act to restore them. Just as the United States remained a beacon of democracy against communism during the 20th Century, the United States must now continue to stand for justice in today's post-Cold War world. 
Throughout the last century, the global community and the United States has striven to create the mechanisms neces­sary to promote and uphold basic human rights of justice, freedom and security through the establishment of the United Nations, scores of nuclear treaties, strategic alliances and democratically elected governments. With the rise ofter­rorism and civil conflicts since the col­lapse of the Soviet Union, these mecha­nisms have undergone strain and in some cases collapsed. Without skillful leadership, the United States and the planet may witness further destabiliza­tion and conflict. Vice President Gore is determined to strengthen these organiza­tions and treaties in order to uphold American values. 
The United States is the unequivocal leader or the world, both economically and militarily. lfthose facing genocide in Kosovo and regional violence in the Congo are helpless to end their plight and restore justice, why isn't the responsibili­ty of the United States and other wealthy nations to see that human suffering ends? Vice President Gore believes that United States advancement of peace and security in the Balkans may not serve to protect U.S. economic interests. but that it does uphold democracy, establish jus­tice and most importantly, prevent human suffering while in the process honoring America and all its citizens. 
George W. Bush has continually assert­ed that the U.S. military should only be used to defend vital national interests. To Bush, our vital interests do not include upholding the values that sparked the American Revolution; instead, they simply entail the monetary values that drive Wall Street. By criticiz­ing U.S. involvement in regions outside of its strategic economic interests, Bush fails in promoting cherished American values of freedom and justice. By having the United States ignore ethnic cleansing and violations of basic human rights. Bush disregards American values that he claims to uphold. 
Additionally, Bush, who has never served his country in the armed forces, claims that U.S. military involvement in peacekeeping missions degrades the mili­tary's ability to fight war. General Montgomery Meigs, the commander of 
U.S. Army troops in Europe, and Vice President Gore believe that these mis­sions provide invaluable training for our armed forces. "You're getting a core of young leaders in the Army who are very tough and experienced," states Gen. Meigs, "and that is worth its weight in gold." 
Vice President Gore will uphold the nuclear treaties that the U.S. has signed and has upheld for over 30 years and still push for the develop­ment of a National Missile Defense {NMD). These treaties have assured the continual reduction of nuclear weapons on earth and have kept nuclear weapons from devastating humanity for over 45 years. Vice President Gore understands that a NMD is needed to protect the United States from missile attacks by rogue states but at the same time understands the importance of the system of treaties that has helped to avert nuclear war. Bush calls for a massive NMD that would require the U.S. to disregard nuclear treaties and in the process re-ignite a global nuclear arms race. 
Finally, without innovation and adaptation, the U.S. military may find itself unprepared for the future of armed conflicts. Peace and security for the U.S., its allies and the rest of the globe can only be maintained if the U.S. dedicates itself towards adapting the mil­itary to the crises that occur in the world today. The vice president dedicates $127 billion more than the current amount towards defense spending in his budget plan to ensure U.S. security. With his extensive tax cuts draining the national budget, Bush only allocates $45 billion. 
Vice President Gore understands the importance of maintaining our global 
. military presence through peacekeeping, while Bush claims it threatens our national defense. The vice president believes in honoring our nuclear arms reduction treaties. Bush simply casts them aside. Above all, Bush does not uphold the values he claims to represent. Vice President Gore believes in America's commitment to upholding American val­ues across the globe and does not shy 
· away from protecting life and preventing human suffering. 
This column is part ofthe Political Face-off that normally appears every Thursday until the election. 
The views e.'tpressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Current administration has led to military deficiency 
In light of the recent bombing of the 
U.S.S. Cole in Yemen, the issues of U.S. foreign policy and military defense is a major concern facing the candidates in the upcoming election. While the United States is currently the Lindsey world's leading Horvath military power, a recent report esti­
College
mates that by 
Republicans

2003, the Chinese military will have the capacity to overpower the United States. The next Chief Executive Officer must 
be ready to take action, while also protecting the best interests of the nation domestically. 
Governor George W. Bush is the best candidate to manage such a task. 
Governor Bush sees U.S. for­eign policy and military defense as more than managing a cri­sis. His plans include peace­keeping efforts and establishing stronger alliances in world the­atres. He will present an amended version of the Anti­Ballistic Missile Treaty, which came out of Cold War resolution 
efforts, to Russia, allowing the i/ _ establishment of anti-ballistic · ' 'l' missiles in world theatres for 
•~ peacekeeping efforts. By increas­ing assistance to Russia in dis­mantling weapons, he hopes to protect the Baltics, Caucasus and Central Asia from potential Russian 
imperialism. Also, he will work with European and Asian allies to work with the transitions in China and Russia. 
Peace in the Middle East and Persian Gulf is of key importance, especially in securing Israel. He will deter aggres­sion against the Republic of Korea, while strengthening security ties with Japan. Also, Governor Bush will increase trade and investment in India, aiding their security and stability with­out undermining ties with Pakistan . Most importantly, he will insist on con­sistent direction of NATO for its effi­ciency. 
Vice President Al Gore, in the current administration, has cut military support and aid to the Defense and Veterans' Affairs departments. Defense spending has decreased 40 percent, dropping to the lowest percentage of the GNP since 1940. While decreasing spending, Vice President Gore has increased deploy­ment on average of one new deploy­ment every nine weeks. Also, the cur­rent administration spends defense funds imprudently, investing in outdat­ed equipment that cannot compete with the capabilities of other countries. 
The enlisted members of the military are also dissatisfied with the current conditions. There is a 13 percent gap between civilian and military pay, and an estimated 12,000 members of the military are on food stamps. A 1999 GAO report states that over 500 of the surveyed enlisted planned on leaving after their current term, 
In 1998, the Air Force missed reen­listment goals for the first time in two decades. It recorded a shortage of 700 pilots in 1999 and predicts a shortage of 2000 pilots in 2002. At the beginning of the current administration, 85 per­cent of the Air Force was considered at the best level of performance, while at the beginning of this year, only 65 per­cent was at this level. 
Similarly, the Navy faced an estimat­ed decline of 18,000 personnel in 1999, and had to cut back in training and maintenance due to a lack of funding. In June of 1999, the Navy and Army ROTC _programs faced their fifth con­secutive year of failing commissioning requirements. 
The Army faced a decline of 6,700 personnel in 1999. The retiring Commander of the U.S. forces in the Persian Gulf states that it will be diffi­cult to conduct operations on the scale of the 1991 Gulf War. In April, the Army Chief of Staff stated that he did not have a fully "C~l" army, meaning that it could not "undertake the full wartime mission for which it is orga­nized and designed." All of these short­comings result from the current advise­ment of Vice President Gore in the cur­rent administration. 
Governor Bush will restore the morale of the military by better sup­porting and respecting it. He will only enact deployments with well-defined objectives, while focusing on the American homeland. Also, he will insist on its mobility, swiftness and stealth, especially in the transfer and acquisi­tion of information and intelligence. On land, Governor Bush will demand lighter, more lethal deployments. Naval reforms will surface in smaller platforms and arsenal ships with long range missiles. Reviews of air strikes capabilities will be necessary. A one billion dollars per year increase to the military pay raise will give active duty service members a $750 increase, while also working on housing renova­tions and training improvements. 
Governor Bush is well-prepared to undertake these gravely important issues, while Vice President Gore still struggles to give hope to protecting the nation. 
This column is part of the Political Face-off that normally appears every Thursday until the election. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Urging students to exercise their right to vote 
I think Erin English made a very good point in her letter yesterday entitled "Candidates failing to address young voters." She said politicians most likely don't try to address issues rnlevant to our generation because we don't vote. And she's absolutely right. 
Look at it from the politican's point of view. Why should they spend valuable time. money and energy trying to implement our concerns into their platforms and trying to market to us when we, as a demographic group, don't vote? Why should they worry about us when we don't make or break an election? 
This puts us in a Catch-22 situation. Politicians don't listen to us because we don't vote; consequently, we don't vote because politicans continue to ignore us. 
We can end this vicious cycle by casting ballots. If we vote, they'll listen, and we'll have a voice in the future of this country. The initiative lies with us. Get out and vote this November! 
Josh Stowe 
senior 
off-campus October 26, 2000 


Behind the scenes of 
The men in yellow 

By JACQUELINE BROWDER 
Assiscanr Scene Ediroc 
They take our tickets, direct us to our seats and ensure that students main­tain well-behaved conduct while cheering for the Irish. They'll even clean up after us when we've had an untimely "parting" with our tailgate lunches. 
They're the guys in the bright yellow jackets. 
But what is the true role of a Notre Dame usher? Notre Dame boasts one of the largest crowd management programs in the country, uti­lizing 850 ushers each home game. 
While mo.st stadiums our size have between 350-400 ushers. Notre Dame is fortu­nate to have 550 unpaid ush­ers. They willingly serve in this role for the opportunity to be part of the Notre Dame experience. 
Ushers must arrive 30 min­utes before gate opening for a pre-game training session and come an additional hour early for the home opener. They work the Blue and Gold game, used as a training game and observe a dress code, wearing a white shirt, neckwear, dress slacks and exhibiting good grooming. They are also subject to a 

code of conduct, which is described under the larger heading of being an "Ambassador for Notre Dame." 
"We have an outstanding corps of ushers," said Cappy Gagnon, coordinator of stadi­um personnel. "We get many compliments for our enforce­ment of rules, such as our zero tolerance policy for alcohol, profanity or smok­ing, which is designed to pro­duce a family atmosphere. 
"We have ushers from a very diverse background. We have more than 100 ushers with more than 20 years experience. We have five ushers with more than 50 years experience. We even have one usher, hired by Knute Rockne, in 1926 when he was a 12 year old Boy Scout," s a i d Gagnon. 
T h e ushers h e I p p r o ­v i d e every f a n with t h e won­der­ful atmosphere in the stadi­um that so many people look forward to when visiting Notre Dame. They come early, leave late and spend countless hours working behind the scenes so that you can enjoy watching the Irish. 
So, this weekend, when you walk (or stumble. as the case may be) into the Stadium. be sure to thank the ushers for their hard work and commit­ment to the University. They've earned it. 




Taking out the tailgaters' trash 
By TAI ROMERO 
Scene Writer 
From the bowels of Notre Dame's stadium lurks a power stronger than a stadium crowd of 80,000 fans. With 80 arms and strength enough to clear 17 tons of trash off the street, this super human force has but one task-to beautify our campus. 
Is it a bird? Is it a plane? No! It's the crew. of Great Lakes Property Maintenance, pro­tecting the Notre Dame parking lots and sta­dium from the constant threat of Trash Man, an intimidating pile of a villain. Combating this awesome beast is a seasonal job. In fact, the beast only rears its gruesome head on home football game days. 
Have no fear students; Great Lakes Property Maintenance has the ultimate plan to prevent Trash Man from overtaking the campus and using his garbage super powers to turn students into mulch for a compost heap. The mastermind behind the Great Lakes Property Maintenance is Hichard Stein, who explains the steps with which he and his crew tackle Trash Man and his evil ways. 
First, the crew fights the big pieces of litter 
in the parking lots while emptying the trash 
barrels filled by Trash Man's greatest ally ... 
tailgaters. Next 15 crew members, affection­
ately termed pickers. do their part in battle 
by sweeping the parking lots after the party­
ing tailgaters' retreat. The pickers have to 
brave such feats as clearing the lots of five t 0 
1 0 
BBQ 
grills, 
a com­
bined 15 
tons of debris 
Photoc

and occasionally 
Fans come from near and far to fi 

a charbroiled 
games. They enjoy travelling, tail 

lamb's carcass. 
campus and more. But what make 

Lastly the Great Lakes Property Maintenance fights battle on the final fron­tier, the Notre Dame Stadium. Here, the crew must deal with the annoyance of plastic cups. leftover food, food wrappers and those ever-poJU.Ilar marshmallow remains in the student section. Using backpack blowers, the crew suppresses Trash Man into 700 garbage bags, weighing 10 pounds each. 
Great Lakes Property Maintenance has been whooping Trash Man's booty in the parking lots for six years and in the Stadium for three. Being the victor against Trash Man is not all fun and games. though. Being on the prowl for an evil villain can occupy six to eight hours on Saturdays and Sundays. In addition. the good guy misses the action of the football game. 
Students should appreciate the efforts of Great Lakes Property Maintenance and their trash fight­ing crew. After all, without their hard work, the students would be forced daily to brave a waste­land of trash and lamb carcasses -not the pris­tine grounds they've become accustomed to tra­versing. 
C 
s
en@ 
Friday, October 27, 2000 page 19 

ND football weekend 
By AMANDA GRECO Scene Editor 
With the drone of cars and the ringing of the reg­
ister in the background, Rich Motz, tollbooth plaza 
supervisor for the Notre Dame exit. recreated the 
home game tollbooth experience. "It's really a very enjoyable time," Rich said as he gave a traveller his change. Traffic for home games increases as early as 
Thursday, but the plaza workers usher between 
7,000 and 10,000 cars past their booths on 
Saturday alone. This int1ux forces Motz to double 
his normal staff. Surprisingly, though, there is no lack of enthusiastic workers to cover the shifts. "Employees come from as far as East Point and Portage to work the games. They really do enjoy it." So what makes it so much fun? The enthusiasm of 
the fans. "It's such an enjoy­able atmosphere," 
Motz said. "Everyone is honking and 
cheering with flags on their cars and painted faces, hang­ing out t h e win ­dows y e I ­l i TI g. I t isn't rare that p e o ­p l e w i I 1 moon 
y O U , 
too." 


Toiling at the tollbooth 
Even the travellers seem to enjoy the .... plaza scene. Rumor has it that people who have exited at the Mishawaka plaza -while perfectly capable of reaching the stadium -will turn around to go back to the Notre Dame exit just so they can wait in line with all the rest of the fans. 
"Some people have never been on a toll road before," employee Kristi Franklin ­said. "When you ask them for their tick­et, they'll hand you their football ticket." 
Franklin went on to regale many inter­esting tales gained only from the vantage point of her tollbooth throne. 
"You think it's dull, but you sec all sorts of things working here," she said. 
"There are people in search of the nud­ist colony who drive through completely naked and smiling. One woman gave birth at the tollbooth. And sometimes you will catch people in 'compromising' posi­tions," she said laughing. "Often people offer coffee and doughnuts to us." 
But travellers aren't always so kind. Irate fans after Notre Dame's loss to Nebraska doused Franklin in a mixture of pop and beer. The tollbooth employ­ees' work doesn't end once the fans take their seats in the stadium. The workers need to keep their eye on the game from their booths. ... 
"If it's a blow away game, people will start leaving at half-time, so we need to switch the lanes to accommodate the traffic," Motz explained. Once the game has ended, it takes between three to four hours to give everyone their ticket and 
. pass them on to their final destinations. 
After the game, the energy levels have changed. It's easy to tell the winners from the losers, and no one seems to 
AMANDA GRECO/The Observer 

enjoy sitting in the post-play back-up. 
Kristi Franklin collects a toll from a driver at the Notre Dame
Without the loyal tollbooth workers, 
exit off the Indiana Toll Road. Between 7,000 and 10,000
the Stadium would hold far fewer fans 
cars pass the tollbooths every football home game Saturday.
come game day. Please, be courteous to them as you drive through. Oh -and It takes anywhere between three to four hours to clear the drive carefully; those extra booths they traffic after the game has finished. But tollbooth employees open just for the football traffic? They're enjoy the work and the atmosphere on football game days. only plywood. 
if Notre Dame Sports lnlormatlOfl . 
eStadium for home· ~ walking the clean 
ByJEFF BALTRUZAK

lrt all possible? 
Scene Writer 

Few visitors leave a Notre Dame football week­end without a souvenir, and for many. that means the game program. While most students pass up buying a program, citing its $5 cost, m.,i,ny visitors and parents look at its glossy pages as a chance to remember their experience on campus. 
Lisa Nelson. publications coordinator for the sports information department, is charged with the task of putting together each week's program. After collecting articles. some written by students. she works with Host Communications to produce the issue. The program is proofread eight times, six by Nelson herself. 
Most of the issue is done two weeks in advance, but Nelson must update the rosters and injury report for each issue, and also include information on the previous week's game. 
Nelson and the Sports Information department begin work on the program each July, when they create the general section about Notre Dame, with factoids about the campus and information about previous football teams. 
Programs! Programs! Get your programs! 
For those fans who don't want to drop a Lincoln on the program at the game, many articles are available on the sports information Web site. 
After Nelson completes her at times arduous task of organizing the program, Host Communications prints up, on average, 20,000 copies for each weekend's game, for a grand total of 120,000 for the season. Nelson explained that the number of programs printed varies by game. This weekend's Air Force game will see only 16,000 programs distributed, while the show­down with Nebraska saw 32,000 sold. 
After printing. the program sellers pick up boxes of programs at the stadium on Friday, before venturing out on Saturday morning to screech "Program, get your program!" 
Program sellers range in age. and some seem to be just barely young enough to haul around their allotment of programs. "I saw this one kid who was just hurting lifting a box of programs," said sophomore Kevin Heffernan. "That kid needed to eat some serious vegetables." 
Despite the stress that comes with such a mas­sive undertaking, Nelson said her reward was "to know that on Saturday, thousands of people will read something I helped put together." 

Friday, October 27, 2000 
NHL 

E,Iues defeat Flrunes as Young, Pronger contribute goals 
game. But Calgary, which out­offense. Boucher, who led the league shot from the top of the circle. A 
Aswci~ted Prrss 

shot the Blues 10-3 in the final Milan Hejduk scored from the with a 1.91 goals-against aver­penalty by Peter White wiped period. could not get the equal­slot five minutes in as Chicago age last season. had struggled out two of the five minutes 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 

.. - Chris Pranger celebrated his new contract extension with a goal and two assists, and Scott Young scored twice to become the first player to reach the 10­goal mark as the St. Louis Blues beat the Calgary Flames 4-3 Th11rsday night. Pranger, who won the Hart Trophy and the Norris Trophy last year, agreed to a three-year extension earlier in the day. He befan paying dividends immedi­ately by scoring the game's first go~.l and the adding assists on goals by Young and Al Macinnis. Young entered the game tied with four other players for first in the NHL with eight goals. He reached double digits in a 1 :33 spa.n of the second period by tipping home a Pierre Turgeon pass on a break-in, and then banging in the rebound of Pronger's shot from the point. Brent Johnson made 18 saves for St. Louis. which has won all four games its played at the Savvis Center. The Blues have Jost once in seven games since dropping their season opener in Phoenix. Cnry Stillman scored twice for the Flames. Phil Housley had the other Calgary goal. St. Louis led 4-1 going into the third period, but Stillman scored at 8:03 and then again at 17:41 to make it a one-goal  izer. The Blues took the lead 10:47 into the game when Pronger broke out of the penalty box and carried a pass from Craig Conroy down the left wing. Pranger then beat Calgary's Mike Vernon with a snap shot from the left circle for his sec­ond goal. Young made it 3-0 early in the second period. He scored his first goal of the game at 5:49 when he split the defense and directed Macinnis' pass home. With the Blues on the power play, Young blasted the rebound of Pronger's slap shot by Vernon at the 7:22 mark. After Housley cut it to 3-1 at 8:26, Macinnis scored his first goal on a slap shot 55 seconds later while the Flames were two men short. Avalanche 2, Blackhawks 0 Tip to NHL teams. If you need to give your No. 1 goaltender a night off, do it against the Chicago Blackhawks. Colorado's Patrick Roy rested and David Aebischer became the fourth backup this season to beat the Blackhawks as the Avalanche stayed unbeaten through 10 games. In just his second NHL start, Aebischer record his first shutout, stopping 18 shots against the anemic Blackhawk  goalie Jocelyn Thibault was screened by teammate Kevin Dean. Alex Tanguay's power play goal less than two minutes into the second period put the Avalanche (8-0-2) up 2-0. Chicago had a first-period goal by Stepahne Quintal wiped out when Michael Nylander was called for a crosscheck in the crease. Flyers 3, Rangers 0 Michal Sykora scored his first goal in two years and Brian Boucher made 32 saves as the Philadelphia Flyers beat the New York Rangers. It was Philadelphia's second victory over the Rangers in three days. The Flyers snapped a seven-game winless streak with a 5-4 victory over New York on Tuesday. The Rangers have lost five of their last six games. Rick Tocchet also scored for Philadelphia. Dayrnond Langkow added an empty-net goal. Sykora, who spent the last two seasons playing in the Czech Republic, gave the Flyers a 1-0 lead 7:07 into the game when he one-timed a crossing pass from Paul Ranheim just inside the far post. Sykora's last goal came on Nov. 8, 1998, when he played for Tampa Bay.  recently. He allowed 14 goals in his previous three starts, and was yanked in his last two starts at home. After failing to stop several shots during a practice drill on Wednesday, Boucher smashed · his stick over the crossbar in anger. He made a couple nice stops in the final minutes when New York pulled its goalie during a power-play for a 6-on-4 advan­tage. Boucher, the first rookie in 50 years to allow less than two goals a game last season, saw his goals-against average dip to 3.83 from 4.52 after the shutout. Tocchet made it 2-0 by beat­ing Rangers goalie Mike Richter with a backhander 5:21 into the third period. Philadelphia outshot New York 17-9 in the third period. The Rangers entered the game with the league's best power play unit on the road, but went 0-for-5 with the man-advan­tage. The Flyers squandered a five­m in u te power play after Eric Lacroix nailed Justin Williams into the boards midway through the first. LaCroix was called for boarding and received a game misconduct. Philadelphia's best chance on the power play came when Eric Desjardins hit the far post on a  Bruins 4, Capitals 1 Mike Keenan won his first game as coach of the Boston Bruins, as Jason Allison scored twice and Andrew Raycroft stopped 27 shots in a victory over Washington on. P.J. Axelsson and Mikko Eloranta also scored for Boston, which had lost four straight after opening the season 3-0-1. Craig Billington stopped 39 shots, and Joe Sacco scored for Washington. The Bruins fired Pat Burns on Wednesday -just eight games into his fourth season with the team. Boston is Keenan's sixth NHL club, and the man they call "Iron Mike" promised to turn things around quickly, as he has in three of his five previous stops. But Keenan inherited a team that didn't respond to Burns, who is himself no slouch as a motivator. Thursday's victory may have had more to do with the opponent: The Capitals dropped to just 1-4-3 with the loss. Burns was right about one thing: Joe Murphy is a discipline problem. The Washington for­ward was released by Boston last season for insubordination after getting in to a shouting match with Burns during a game.  
.,.  
C!LASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 eents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  

LOST & FOUND 
Fourm 
TREr: BIKE in parking lot one week ago. CALL MATT 4-4894. 
LOST on campus at Stanford game 1 1/~! inch thick gold bracelet REWl'\RD call Carol at 312-946· 1800. 
T1c:KETS 
WAWED ND FOOTBALL TKTS 289-9280 
SELLINGND FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570 
VICTORY TKTS BUY'!:iELL *TRADE ND FOOTBALL 232-0364www.victorytickets.com 
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3:~11 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M. -232-2378 PM. • 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. · 232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 
I NEEi) 4 BC TIX TOGETHER CAN F'AY ONLY $200 CALL 243-1621 . 
NEED AF TICKETS, call with price 634-3068, ask for Dylan 
Facult1 wants to trade 2 Air Force GA fc,r 2 B.C. GA 631-6(;44_ 
I need two tickets for the Boston College game. Contact Travis 319· 241-1082. 
PAYING $50 EACH FOR ND VS. BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. 21 9 289-8048. 
2 AF GA TIX FOR SALE. SECTION 25. CALL CHRIS 634-4751. 
NEED TWO BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S. PLEAES CALL MANYARD ATl ·800·638-6963, X 6093. 
CALL WILL BE RETURNED ASAP. 
FOR RENT 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/, email:mmmrentals@aol.com 232­2595 
That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds 5 Rooms with private baths. $80-$115, 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus Toll Road, Exit #107,1-800-418· 9487. 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-br $1000/month 2) 4-br $1100/month 3)3-br $650/month. We'll make almost any changes to the houses 
Call Bill at 675-0776. 
Students Wanted! Alum-owned 2stry 5-6 bdrm, 2 bathNew: carpet, appliances, washer-dryer, furnace. roof, & Security. Huge yard 1 blk N. of Club 23 $1375 inc. until Call Jason 240-0322 We have one room tor the Air Force game left. $120/nt., shared bath. Less than 2 mites trom campus, 277-8340. 

NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND. GREAT AREA 277-3097. 
2520 sq. ft. home for sale or lease to buy in Knollwood. Mocing. $174k. 277-7992 
WANTED 
Need childcare in our Granger home, Tues. and Thurs. Must have transportation. Call 271-1935. 
NANNY WANTED :25-35 hrs/week. Contact Krista @ 425-793-1208 for more info or email KROBKE@CER· WEA.COM. 
COACH: Need Jr. High boys bas­ketball coach. Responsible, dependable student or grad to coach 7-Bth grade basketba II S­team, Nov. 13-Feb 23; for south side elementary school. located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. Must be available for practices Mon-Thurs from 2:20-3:15. Game schedule varies. 
Otticials Needed• Officials Needed 
for Men and Women Basketball. This is a great opportunity to earn great money Contact the 
RecSports ottice (Peter Shoop or Jett Walker) @ 631-6100 or stop by the office in the Rolt5 Sports Recreation Center today You can also e-mail us at rec­sport@nd edu. 
COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS 300,000 + private sector scholar­ships available for undergraduate and graduate students at accredit­ed colleges in the Usa regardless of their GPA, finances, age or citizen­ship. Write or call for FREE information and application-Scholarship Database Service P.O. Box 432 Notre Dame, IN 46556-0432 
Barnyard8961@hotmail.com 1-800­936-3706 
NOTICES 

SURVIVE SPRING BREAK 2001!ALL THE HOTTEST DESTI­NATIONS/HOTELSI CAMPUS SALES REPRESENTATIVES AND STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS WANTED! VISIT inter-campus.com or call 1­800-327 -6013 THE TRIBE HAS SPOKENI 
#1 Spring Break 2001 N Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica, Florida & S.Padre. Reliable TWA flights. Best Prices. Earn $$$ or FREE trips-call for details! 1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentex• 
press.com 

Spring Break 2001 Book group of 15 and GO FREE! Book before NoY. 3 for FREE Meals! Visit us at sunsplashtours.com or call for free info @ 1-800-426-771 O 
FOR SALE 

88 Ford Taurus, 6-cyl., stereo w/cassette player. Well maintained by responsible female. $2,000/obo. Lv. msg at 291-5366. 
1996 PONTIAC GRAND PRIX SE 4-door, AT, White/Gray, 57K All Power Options, Premium Audio w/CD Changer. $8,250. 272-5492. 
PERSONAL 

Quality Copies, Quickly! We're open early, late & weekends. THE COPY SHOP La Fortune Student Center 
Quality Copies, Quickly! 

WORK THE POLLS ELECTION DAY, NOV.7 6AM-6PM PAY $75 
YOU MUST BE 18YRS OLD, A RESIDENT OF ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, IN., AND A REGIS­TERED VOTER. 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED, CALL JOHN COURT AT VOTERS REGISTRATION, 
235-9530. 
woo woo. 
"out with the woman." 

okay, who puts that on their away message? 
good point, linn. 
what a dork 

and who are these girls doing this to kate? 
um, could you please give me a break? 
I love you, kate. 
!inn, watch out for those wall skele­tons. 
they can be scary. 
like yo ma. 
no matter how bad things get, no matter how many seasons without winning the pennant or making the playoffs, stay loyal to your team 
Noreen, as you embark on your last midwest booty call, know that Your papers are being processed for the cross country Booty call club 
"out with the woman"· whatever. The person is obviously not the sharpest tool in the shed when ND has something so good to offer him 
have a beverage for me tonight at heartland CK and KS 
you can come live with me and wilbur. We want you kate. 
thanks, manda. 
NDCK01 rocks 
so does Kytillis. 
so does SpecialT19. 
nor the brightest crayon in the box. 
will you be my girlfriend? 
slumber party with the hello, kitty sheetsl 
CMcC is da bomb. I wish I could be like hers 
Ann Marie's a T-Rexll!! 

-----~--------~~-~ -­
===Frida===y,O===ctob==er2===7, . P==='Al===DA==DVE===R==Tl===SEM==EN==T===============================~pag~Ul !
2==000===========================The===Obs===erver=== 
" 



0MPU5 
lv11NISTRY 
Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation ,.. to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
Air Force Football Weekend October 28-29, 2000 
.. 

Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:00, 7:oo, s:oo, 9:30 & 11:00 am 
I I I I I 
.+ I 


, _______ 

page 22 Friday, October 27, 2000
The Observer . SPORTS 


]Malone leads Jazz past Mavs 
surgery on his right knee, had 10 ward's presence on the boards.
Associated Press 

points -all in the first half. The Pistons outrebounded Kevin Garnett added 14 points Minnesota 54-43, including 20­Karl Malone scored 26 points and 11 rebounds. 10 in the first quarter.
and Jacque Vaughn added 17 to Minnesota played without Jerry Stackhouse, who becamelead the Utah Jazz to a 104-87 

Smith for the first time since the Pistons' primary scoringvictory over the Dallas 
NBA commissioner David Stern threat when Grant Hill left 'forMavericks in an exhibition game 
voided his contract, and the Orlando, scored 16 points but
Thursday night. 

Wolves seemed to miss the for-shotjust 5-for-19.
Malone went 8-for-17 from the field and 10-for-12 from the free throw line as the Jazz finished the exhibition schedule 4-4. 
John Starks had 16 points for 

The La.tin.id.ad a:n.d.
Utah, 14 in the first quarter. Shawn Bradley had 19 points 

Gl.oba.l.iza..tio:n. Project a..:n.d. the
and six rebounds for the l\1avericks. who completed the 

Great Chal.l.e:n.ges of the XXI
exhibition season 6-2. 

Michael Finley added 13 points 
.. and Christian Laettner had 11 for Dallas. 
Utah shot 63 percent and took a 31-21 lead after one quarter. The Jazz went on to lead by as 

-~----·l:j:'lltt.ll:~~\
many as 21 (45-24) in the sec­ond quarter. The Jazz took an 82-62 lead 
' 
.
into lhe fourth quarter. Malone had 15 third-quarter points. 
··.•.l)~ 
. ..._."
Tlmberwolves 88, Pistons 81 
:' , :I:;. 
I

Wilh Joe Smith no longer a member of the team, the Minnesota Timberwolvcs got 17 points from Terrell Brandon to beat the Detroit Pistons in the toams' final (lxhibition game. ~:,~~'.'
.....
Brandon, playing in his second game since missing four with an injured hlp, shot 7-for-11 from the field. He teamed with Sam J,tcobson to lead a 14-2 quarter­(nding spurt that put Minnesota 

The Xn..stitu.te for La.ti.:n.o Stu.di.es
· up 72-66. 
Wallv Szczerbiak, who missed Minnesota's lirst s.ix preseason g'l.mes while recovering from 

Spo:n..sored. by: 


continued from page 36 
Jamal Crawford, Duke's Elton Brand. St. John's Hon Artest and Iowa State's Marcus Fizer) who would still be in college if they had not left school earlv. And the Pacers· Al flarrington and Jonathan Bender went straight to the NBA from high school in 1998 and 1999. respectively. 
Add in Bulls' rookies AJ Guyton. Jake Voskuhl and Dalibor Bagaric and third-year Pacers' player Bruno Sundov (who was Irish center Ivan Kartelo's teammate at the Winchendon School in Massachusetts) and more than 1 /3 of last night's participanl'i 1;,re under 23. 
The oldest player, Voskuhl (who turns 23 Wednesday), also made a return trip to the Joyce Center. A teammate of El-Amin 

... 1:.t UConn, Voskuhl was subjeci.­1:-d to several taunts from stu­dents in la.st season's game. Among the signs: "Troy Murphy: All-American. Jake Voskuhl: Fairy Princess." "Not trying to sound arrogant but it was normally a big game for the opposing team [when they played against the Huskies) so we were used to it." said \'oskuhl. referring to last year's game. "It's over and done with so who cares?" Apparently the fans on Thursday night. Voskuhl. who still has the long blonde hair and "surfer" look, entered the game with 6:45 left in the fourth quarter amidst a scattering of coos from the neutral crowd. Now a lowly NBA rookie, \'oskuhl has other things to worry about. His duties include carrying the veterans' bags and providing Krispy Kreme glazed donuts at practice. 
If he does not oblige to the demands of older teammates. Voskuhl is punished with a "'silly fine." The "silly fines" are listed on a piece of paper in an enve­lope containing the rookies' meal money and are deducted from the check. 
''One guy farted on the court one day," Voskuhl recalled. "And that got one of the veter­ans upset, so they fined him 50 bucks." 
Among the "veterans" on the young Bulls' squad is Artest. As a freshman at SL John's, Artest led the Red Storm to a 79-69 victory against the Irish at the Joyce Center. He left school after two years and was selected 16th overall in the 1999 draft. Artest expected to be a lottery pick, an experience that helped him understand the "business" of the NBA. He hopes to contin­ue with the Bulls but knows there are no guarantees. 
"You never know in this busi­ness." Artest said. "It's crazy. I've seen a lot of funny things happen." 
Another "funny thing" Artest has seen in the last year has been the development of Notre Dame's Troy Murphy. Coming out of high school in New York City, Artest was a "can't-miss" prospect while Murphy, a New Jersey native. was a relative unknown. 
"l didn't know he would be this good," said Artest, who attended the Five-Star camp with Murphy during high school. "Elton [Brand] and me always talk about that. We're like, Troy Murphy? But he's got a lot of heart. 
"Really nobody can guard him. Nobody." 
That includes Harrington. When Harrington and Murphy last played together, the unher­alded Murphy upstaged the nation's top player (Harrington) in the 19-and-under MU 
National tournament. 
"He played unbelievable," 
Harrington said. "And I might 
have played my worst game 
ever. Ile left that last impression 
on n1e." 
Harrington, who also played high school ball in New Jersey, met with Murphy before Thursday night's game. The two 20-year olds reminisced for awhile and Harrington gave the Irish star another vote of' confi­dence. 
"I'm projecting he's going to score 25 [points] and 12 [rebounds per game]," Harrington said. "He's dominat­ing college ball." 
The same cannot be said for Harrington in the pros. He aver­aged just 6.6 points per game last season but expects to see more playing time in 2000. Last night, he scored nine points and grabbed five rebounds in 30 minutes. 
Brand (26 points and 16 rebounds), Bender (19 points) and Artest (10 points) seem to have adapted to the pro game better than the other young players. 
But the future looks bright for the members of the 22-and under club, including El-Amin. 
Although he saw no action last night. El-Amin, a second-round pick signed a contract with Chicago on Oct. 2. He may not play much this season and has yet to play in a regular season game. 
But he has already learned the most overused cliche in profes­sional sports. 
'Tm not in it for the money," El-Amin said. Welcome to the NBA, Khalid. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



Friday, October 27, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
WORLD SERIES 
Yankees defeat Mets, win third-straight Series title 
There's more than one road to success. 
j 
-


Associated Press 
Best in their own back yard, best in all of baseball. 
The New York Yankees, thought to be too old and too banged-up to make it this far, became the first team in more than a quarter-century to win three straight World Series championships, beating the New York Mets 4-2 Thursday night. 
Luis Sojo, one of many mid­season pickups, hit a two-out, tiebreaking single off Al Leiter in the ninth inning to decide Game 5, stunning a Shea Stadium crowd that was sure there was more baseball to play. 
The Subway Series turned out to be a short ride for New York fans who had waited 44 years for another one and hoped it would go seven games. Instead, the Yankees quickly matched the Oakland Athletics' three in a row from 1972-74, and won their fourth title in five years. 

Only two other runs in base­ball history can compare -Joe DiMaggio led the Yankees to five crowns from 19 36-41, and Mickey Mantle helped take the Bronx Bombers to six titles from 1947-53. 
And while the lasting image of this Series is certain to be Roger Clemens throwing the bat at Mike Piazza, this is the picture the Yankees will prefer to savor: Owner George Steinbrenner hoisting another big piece of hardware for the team's trophy case. 
Game Four hero Derek Jeter, who earned his fourth ring at only 26 and was selected Series MVP, and slumping Bernie Williams homered for the Yankees. But it was Sojo, who blossomed into a good-luck charm after rejoining the Yanks from Pittsburgh on Aug. 7, who deliverfld thfl winning hit. 
-

Leiter battled all night, and struck out the first two batters in the ninth. Then he walked Jorge Posada and gave up a single to Scott Brosius, and Sojo followed by slapping a single up the middle on Leiter's 142nd and final pitch. Another run scored on the play when center fielder Jay Payton's throw home hit Posada and bounded into the Mets dugout. 
Leiter remained winless in 11 postseason starts, while Mike Stanton won in relief of Andy Pettitte. Mariano Rivera pitched the ninth for a save. 
At the stroke of midnight, Piazza flied out to the edge of the warning track in center field with a runner on base to finish it. 
The Yankees fans in the sell­out crowd of 55,292 went wild after having been outshouted all evening. 
Even with so much at stake, there was room to have a little fun, with a broken bat, no less. 
Kurt Abbott shattered his bat on a foul ball in the Mets fourth, and the jagged barrel skittered out toward Jeter at shortstop. 
With the crowd starting to hoot, mindful of the Clemens• Piazza encounter in Game Two, Jeter made a nice show in defusing any hint of trouble. Ile fielded the broken piece with his glove, laughed and handed it to a Mets batboy. 
While Jeter and Williams hit the solo homers for the Yankees, the Mets scraped out two runs that left it tied at two through the seventh. 
Williams put the Yankees ahead 1-0 when he homered leading off the second. The 
-

cleanup man had been O-for-15 through four games and hitless in his last 22 Series at-bats overall. 
Trying to ensure that the skid was behind him, he singled and walked his next two times up. 
Jeter, who homered on the first pitch of the game the pre­vious night, made it two-all by hitting a shot into the Yankees' left-field bullpen in the sixth off Leiter. 
The Mets had to work much harder for their runs. 
Bubba Trammell, starting because of his career success against Pettitte, walked with one out in the second and Payton singled. The runners moved up on a groundout and Leiter, an .053 hitter this sea­son, dragged a perfect bunt past the mound. 
First baseman Tino Martinez bobbled the ball for a moment and made an underhanded flip to Pettitte, but the pitcher dropped the throw. Pettitte was charged with an error, denying an RBI to Leiter, who had none this year, but a run scored and the Mets were satisfied. 
Benny Agbayani followed with a slow roller that third baseman Brosius tried to play with his bare hand. but the ball escaped his grasp and went for an RBI single that gave the Mels a 2-1 lead. 
Pettitte helped himself with his second pickoff of the Series, trapping a wandering Abbott off first in the fourth. 



MEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 

K~nott-Zahm rivalry continues 
By JOHNYY LIEIT­NER, and JOHN 
BACSIK 
Sports Writers 
When the Knott and Zahm interhall football teams take the field this Sunday. they will rernme a ferocious ri\'alry that has wit­nc.ised its fair share of tight games and photo finishes. Only this time. thH right to play anoth­er day hangs irrevoca­bly in the balance; only one team can advance to the semifinals. 

Defending league champion Knott Hall ... enters the game with an unblemished 4-0 record and a No. 2­pl.1yoff seed. Knott ju :1ior wide receiver and captain Brian Pawloski feels the team's success this year has stemmed frDm an offensive atlack that features ru rrning back and cap­tain Patrick Virtue and an explosive vertical 
LIZ LANG/The Observer 
passing game. 

Sorin quarterback Pete Belden looks for an open
''We're very versa­

reciever. Sorin will face off against Fisher this
tile," Pawloski said. 

"We run and pass pret­Sunday at Stepan Field. ty much 50-50 and not too many teams can rivalry. the playoffs. 
say that." "Our games are close "Our goal is to play Knott's cause is also every year," Hennessey in the stadium," Sorin aided by a defense that said. captain Mike Crowe 
ha.s proven itself by Both teams anticipate said. "We're anxious to shutting down the another heated match­go out and win this opposing team's up. one." offense in all four reg­"Upsets do happen Quarterback Pete 
ular season games. and anybody can win," Belden and running "The only points Pawloski said. "And back Trevor Morris scored any team will lead the Sorin against us that can offense. 
have been "We have a really score 42 The Otter defense is intercep­points in a formidable force,
good team, but we 

t i o n o n e allowing only one 
can beat or lose to

returns." game is touchdown all season. P~.wloski anybody. We need to danger­"Our defense has said. ous." been really well-bal­
be fired up to play 

anced," Crowe said.
Zahm Zahm
with discipline and 

enters the h e a d s "We've kept good pres­g a m e to avoid penalties. " into the sure on the opposing after a g a m e quarterbacks." r ,J 1 1 c r w i t h The Green Wave
BIii Hennessey

coaster t h r e e offensive attack is com­ride of a Zahm captain m a i n posed of a strong core sf· as on. goals in of seniors. Quarterback After pre-mind. Byron Levkulich, run­vailing in its first game "We need to be fired ning back Zach Allen 
b} a margin of 42-0, up to play, play with and wide receiver Za.hm went 1-1-1 in its discipline and avoid Steve Doherty look to final three games to penalties," Hennessey light the offensive sneak into the playoffs said. spark Sunday. with a seven seed. Knott intends to find "We've been a bit Still, the Habid Bats of a way to counter inconsistent at times, Zahm feel confident in Zahm 's sizeable but we're not changing their unit's abilities. defense and "perfect anything in practice," 
'We have a really the stuff we ran Allen said. "Our offen­good team." Zahm throughout the year," sive line deserves a lot rlE1fensive end and cap­Pawloski said. of credit. They open up tain Bill Hennessey Both captains believe all the holes and help sa.id. "But we can beat that the game will us make the big plays." or lose to anybody." entail high intensity Co-captain Dahx 
Zahm has showcased and plenty of emotion. Maars leads the Fisher a dynamic defense of "This will be a great defense, along with it:, own this year and game for the fans," seniors . Andrew shares Knott's bal­said Pawloski. "I know Wagemaker and Justin anced run and pass it will be a lot of fun to Westervelt. 
-
gume plan. play." ''I'm confident in this "We need to come defense," Westervelt 
out ready to play and said. "We've had a
Fisher vs. Sorin
emphasize discipline," great
Sorin and Fisher will

Hennessey said. "This week at practice and
both be looking for 

game could really go everyone is healthy
redemption this 

either way." and rested."
Sunday on Stepan

Although they have "Our defense isn't
Field. The teams bat­

not clashed in the play­afraid to get dirty,"
tled to a 6-6 tie earlier 

ol'fs in recent years. Maars said. "We're
in the season, and both

Knott and Zahm have looking to dominate 
are hungry for a win in

maintained a thriving here." 
Up to 50o/o Off Officially Licensed Notre Dame 
:it 

' ' .. ,._'!:

Merchandise... 
.ro~?· ···· 

Save up to 50% on sweatshirts, 
··~' : :··· , 

hats, polo shirts, jackets, novelties and much more! 
Where...? 
CLEVELAND 80/90 TOLLWAY c z DOUGLAS ~ c University of ~ NOTRE DAME 3  

Located at: LOGAN CENTER 
1235 N. Eddy, South Bend IN 
Rightacrossfrom 
NotreDame Stadium entrance 
EDISON 
on the comer of Eddy &Angela 

When...? 
ND vs. Air Force Weekend 
9-7  
7:30 'til late  
10-2  

Who...? 
~uest Signings 
Have your photo takenwith Quarterbacks Jarious Jackson and Tony Rice. *Plus they will sign your photo and Notre 
ame merchandise. 
t be purchased atLogan 
Friday, October 27, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
Crime looks to steal victory from No. 7 Bullfrogs 


By SUSIE CARPENTER and. 
LIA MILHOAN 
Sports Writers 
When Badin and Off-Campus faced off earlier this season, the game resulted in a 12-12 tie. The two compete in the first round of playoff action this weekend. 
"We've been waiting for an opportunity at redemption after our poor performance in our first meeting with Badin," Off-Campus coach Paul Diamantopoulos said. 
Seeded No. 1 in their league and number two in the play­offs, Off-Campus is considered the favorite. However, Diamantupoulos does not place much importance on the rank­
ings.  
"I believe that you can never feel  "We've been waiting for an opportunity at  
totally confi­ redemption after our  
dent about any situation, because, as  poor performance in our first meeting with Badin.  
they  say,  Ifeel our team knows  
anybody  can  what it takes to win and  
win on any given day,"  they will do their best to  
he  said.  accomplish this. "  
"However, I  
feel that our team knows  Paul Diamantopoulos  
what it takes  Off-Campus head coach  
to  win  and  
they will do  

their best to accomplish this is in order to get to the stadium this year." 
The Off-Campus Crime have be·en effective both offensively and defensively this season, allowing only two touchdowns. 
Diamantopoulos attributes their success, not to a few star players, but to the raw talent and cohesiveness of the entire team. 
"I can't really single out any individual player because Off­Campus truly is a team," he said. "No matter what the situ­ation, the majority of the girls give it their best each and every play even through injuries and fowl weather." 
"We have a smaller roster, but we are a solid core group of girls," co-captain Katie Leicht added. 
Throughout the season, the Badin offense had been suc­cessful at moving the ball down the field, but had diffi­culty scoring touchdowns. 
"We had a lot of chances to score but we didn't," co-cap­tain, Tiffney Colon said. 
Despite their previous hard­ships, the Bullfrogs came away with a victory in their last game. The offense capitalized at the end of their drives, and the defense, who has remained strong all season. held. Coach Anthony Pilcher hopes to use the momentum from that last game into this weekend's game. 
"Everything just clicked for us in that game," he said. "We have good momentum going into the playoffs." 
Badin is undaunted by its seventh seed. Coach Brett Gansen is optimistic about Sunday's game. 
"We know we can compete at the same level as they are," he said. "If we play well, we have a good shot [at beating Off-Campus]." 
Senior quarterback, Prissy Clements looks to lead the offense to another win. On the defensive side of the ball. strong safety Suzie Schwaab, who averaged 10 batted down balls per game, could be a force to be reckoned with. 
"She is as good as anyone in the league in at her position," Pilcher said 
Both Off-Campus and Badin said that they have designed new plays in order to be effec­tive offensively and to be domi­nant defensively. With eyes only for the stadium. neither wants Sunday's game to be the last of the year. 
Cavanaugh vs. Howard 
On Sunday, the Chaos of Cavanaugh square off against inter­division rival Howard Hall in a 3 p.m. first round playoff game at the McGlinn fields. 
Cavanaugh and Howard last played on Sept. 28, with Cavanaugh coming away with a 13-0 regular sea­

son victory. 
"We're excited to play Cavanaugh," Howard coach Brad Untiedt said. "We think we have improved since we faced them in the regular sea­son, so it should be a good match up for the playoffs." 
Howard enters the playoffs on a high note after defeating last year's runner up, Pasquerilla East, in its final regular season game. The Ducks enter the playoffs with a 3-3 overall record. 
The Ducks will look to quar­terback Jill Veselik and fresh­man receiver Elizabeth Klimek to have strong games as the duo has hooked up for many of Howard's big plays throughout· the season. 
Cavanaugh returns to the playoffs once again. Last sea­son the Chaos advanced to the semifinals before losing to Pasquerilla East. Cavanaugh rounded out the regular sea­son with a win over Lewis Hall and brings a 5-1 overall record into the Sunday's game. 
"We think that if we practice hard and then keep our heads in the game we can come away with a win," senior captain Amy Szestak said. "Howard is a tough team and we will have to play well to win." 
"We have played well this year and hope to make it to the stadium," Chaos coach Bart Bruckert said. "Howard played well against us last time and they have a really good quarterback [Jill Veselik]." 
The Chaos will be depending on the linemen to bring home the win. "We're working on ­the offensive and defensive lines and hoping to contain her," Bruckert said. "We need to concentrate on assignments. I think it will be a good game." 

!Recycle the Observer! 
p.1ge 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 27, 2000 
VVOMEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 

lJndefeated Welsh looks for second win against Lyons 

... 
By-COLIN BOYlAN and LAU­
REN CONTI 
Srorrs Writers 
t\ 6-0 record during the regu­lar season may have earned Welsh Family Ilall the No. 1 seed in the upcoming playoffs. but it won't get the defending champions much else this week­er.d in their first round match­u~, against Lyons. 
'I lhink its going to be a tough. close game." Lyons quarterback Sarah Jenkins said. "We certain­ly aren't intimidated by their record." 
Perhaps it won't be the memo­ry of a 6-0 record that lingers in the mind of Lyon's players as 

... they take the field. but rather. the week two regular season contest between the two teams. In that game. Welsh dominated. claiming a 20-0 victory against Lyons. "We feel we've improved a lot since the second week," Jenkins said. "Our offense is much bet­ter." For its part. Welsh has been operating on all cylinders. defeating Cavanaugh 20-2 and Howard 35-0 in its past two games to complete an undefeat­ed Blue League campaign. The strength of the team is a quick offense coupled with a slrong passing game with quar­terback Kalie Rak throwing to receivers Jen Grubb and Vanessa Lichon. "Offensively, Katie has been 
outstanding for us this year." 
Welsh coach Casey Bouton said. 
"She's familiar with all our 
returning receivers and that's 
key." 

Bouton was also quick to give credit to fourth-year defender Maria Fieldmayer, who he called "a real leader on the field." 
For Lyons (3-3). defensive backs Lisa Thomas and Lisa Chamblee will have to contain Welsh's passing game if they hope to score an upset. Offensively. Jenkins will be look­ing downfield to a receiving corps headed by freshman Roxy Trevino. 
And while the odds will defi­nitely be in Welsh's favor, no one is counting out Lyons just yet. After dropping its first three games of the season, the team rallied to win their last three and secure a playoff berth. 
"If we can beat Welsh. I think we'll have a good chance to win it all." Jenkins said. 
Welsh coach Bouton agreed. 
"We have lots of confidence in our team," he said. "But were just going to take it one game at a time and hopefully we'll end up in the stadium." 
Pasquerilla West vs. Walsh 

The Purple Weasels of Pasquerilla West will play in their first lnterha!l playoff game since the 1998 season this Sunday at 2 p.m .. when they face off against Walsh Hall's Wild Women at Stepan Fields. 
The PW Women have tweaked 
their offense and feel well pre­
pared for the challenge. 
"We've put in a lot of new plays in pr<'paration," PW offen­sive coordinator Steve Branowski said. ''We didn't make rthe playoITsJ last year. but this year we're linally breaking through." 
After a successful season, Walsh will be looking to cement this season's prowess and prove they can move further up the ranks than they did last season. In 1999, they beat the Purple Weasels 7-6 in the last game of the season to narrowly qualify for the playoffs, but lost in the first round. 
"I think we're more competi­tive this year than we were last year, and hopefully we'll get fur­ther in the playoffs," Walsh receiver Kay Scanlan said. 
"Last time we played IPW]. we tied at 0-0, and to be honest, I thought they played better than we did," he said. "In order for us to beat them, we'll have to play as well as we possibly can, but I think our offense can pick it up, and our defense was there strong last time." 
He added, "if we can beat them, I see us going far." Baranowski looks to Sunday's game with confidence. 
"Previously against Walsh, our offense moved the ball well. but we just couldn't manage to punch it into the end zone," he said. "Now, we've made a few offensive adjustments. We've put in a lot of new plays, and we're keep it very close to the vest." 

The Purple Weasels may be the team with something to prove, but the Wild Women have just as much at stake. 
"I know we all have a person­al investment in this game," Walsh quarterback Lauren Walsh said. "We have a lot of seniors on the team. it's their last year, and they really want 
it... "We're such a small team that 

every one of us plays, so if we do win, it will be because of every­body, not just a few star play­ers," she added. 
The game is shaping up to the kind of highly competitive match that should be the hallmark of Women's lnterhall playoffs this season. 
"We're pumped to actually be in the playoffs," PW captain Amanda Gallen said. "After a season with so many teams that had such close records, it should be a great postseason and a great game." 



The week of January 4-11 Specific 48 hour period Set by each Site. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: 10:00pm., NIONDAY, OCTOBER 30th 
REGISTRATION FORMS AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
or at www.ndtoday.com 
Questions? 631-5293 


Albany +Albuquerque+Boston-,,Buffalo-,,Chic ago+Cincinnati.,,Cleu eland Columbus+Dallas...oes Moines...oetroit... Grand Rapids,,y.Honolulu Houston + I ndianapolis...Mobile...New York. +Oak.lanci...Pnilaclelphia 
PhoeniH-,.Pittsburgh+St. Petersburg...south Bend...san Antonio San Diego4,Tacoma+Washington D.C....AND MORE! 




Friday, October 27, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
VOLLEYBALL 
Saint Mary's drops match to Hope in straight ga01es 
By ALICIA ORTIZ 
Spons Wricer 
Energy wasn't enough to push Saint Mary's to victory against MIAA leader !lope College on Wednesday. The Belles played a tough game, and lost in three games to the Flying Dutch. 
"Our energy was there. we played well," junior outside defensive hitter Angela Meyers said. 
The Belles spent the first game adjusting with several players in unfamiliar posi­tions.. 
Saint Marv's used almost all of its substitutions trying to find a soft spot in Hope's defensive line. The strategy failed. and the Belles 


.A Special Invitation to Very Important Meetings 
Evangelist Bob Shattles 
All Services at 7:00pm except Sunday at 10:15am & 6:00pm Saturday -Tuesday October 28 -31, 2000 
Thousands Saved, Healed and Delivered! 
. 
Everyone Welcome! 

. 
Bring friends, neighbors... 

. 
Those who are seeking... 

. 
Those who need healing... 

. 
Those who need a miracle from God! 


Manifestations from God! 
* 
Gold Dust falling 

* 
Lightningflashes in services 

* 
Wind ofGodfelt and heard 

* 
Tongues offire realized 

* 
Diamonds andJewels falling 

* 
Angels singing 

* 
Sweet odor ofJesus smelled 


'To me. the greatest thing about the manifestation of the glory of God in my life has been the fact that it draws men and women to Christ. What Jesus did on earth He did so that we would believe. and I am convinced that 
the purpose of God's Glory being manifested is so that more people \\ill come to the feet ofJesus." 
Exccrpl from Boh Shattles" I.look-Rel'lml Fire and Glmv 

I Join the NEW TRADITION 
rattoria ~ ~33---1000 
end's Newest Italian Restiiuraiif_____ ---------­
Family Owned Tradition 
Original Family Recipes 
235 S. Michigan St. South Bend, In 46601 www.cataJinos.com 

dine in/carry-out reservations recommended 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S FINEST ITALIAN DINING 
dropped the game 15-9. 
Hope's offense went on to dominate the match, taking the second and third 15-5 and 15-8 consecutively. 
" They had an awesome offensive line," Meyers said. 
Despite the loss, head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek continues to be proud of her team. 
"We played very high level volleyball last night," Schroeder-Biek said. "Our defense and· our serving were excellent." 
Junior outside defensive hitter Angela Meyers led the team with 15 digs. nine kills and two service aces. Junior middle hitter Jolie LeBeau added to the Belles effort with seven kills. f<reshman setter/ outside hitter 

Revival Meetin Location: 
St. Joseph Valley Community Church 
833 S. 30th Street South Bend, Indiana 219-234-0145 
SJVCC@aol.com 

LeighAnn Matesich rounded out the evening with 20 assists, six digs and two ser­vice aces. 
Despite good individual play, Saint Mary's credits team effort. 
"Everyone stepped up on our defense," senior defen­sive specialist Victoria Butcko said. " This game was a team effort." 
Schroeder-Riek was partic­ularly pleased with her team's service. 
"As a team we had nine service aces," Schroeder­Biek said. "That is the most aggressive that we have served all season." 
The Belles now stand at 3­
11. They play Kenyon College of Ohio and Albion College at the Albion Quad on Saturday. 
, 


KRISTINE KAAI/The Observer 

Setter Leigh Ann Matesich fires the ball back to hitter Natalie Hock. The Belles dropped to 3-11 after Wednesday's loss. 
November 4'\ 2000 8•h Annual 
MARA.EDA FUN RUN 
>M•at py6qj,fu[all 
Mara died/~&99f' on 
Lyons' rement~i~:~;J]:: 
We encourage eve.ryo prizes will be award 1 . sp 
Look to pre-register: meet at I 0:30, run · Lyons' Basketbi · to·urcs . $12 day-of 
price includes long sleeve t-shirt and continental breakfast contacts: Liz 4-0901 or Laura 4-2759 
;. ...~ ,;{./:..i ':--,' <:, :.._.,,,~·.;.': '~ :"~ "":,;,{..~.. 
i m • 

Sportsw~ar
la est selection at 

from CIU'T'i1110ST 
Campus s ors 
COtnpetlllvw In •n,y-­

Call 259-1000 for more details 
·;11J1hats
-1toves 
largest selection
I

onyat_::_.~ 
~inutes~ 
t!.vm 01.iTPCIIIT Camm.JS s ors 
1' ~In•-,,­

Call 259-1000 for more details 
,----·-----------------------------------------­
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 27, 2000 
CROSS COUNTRY 
E~elles look to catch I<~alamazoo at MIAAs 

By KATIE McVOY 
Asoi1tant Sports Editor 
The 8(11les will make a run at calA;hing league competition at Lhis weekend's MIM cross-country ch~mpionship at Albion College. Alkr fini.,;hing in thf' numbf'r seven spot at the MIAA Jamboree. Saint Mary's will be looking to catch Kalamazoo. 
"It will be tough to catch Kai am a zoo 
MIAA .Jamboree in first place with a team score of 23 points. It fm­ished all six ofits runners in the top l 1. 
This will be the first time m~t of the women from Saint Mary's sec this particular course. 
'We ran on the course two years ago but only two runners were on that team," Barstis said "So it will be new to just about everyone." 
Although he would like to see his team advance in league rankings, Barstis sees 
other goals as

which finished 
''The whole team is

six:h [in the more impor­
going to have to run tant.

M I A A "My expecta­
Jamboreel." their best race. " heE.d coach 
tions are the Dave Barstis same [as for all 
Dave Barstls

said. "But if the other meets] there is one Belles coach to have 
thing I've learned, it's that anyone can be bt>,aten on any given day." 
The Belles finished more than 100 points behind Kalamazoo at the Jamboree, their only home med, but Barst.is believes catching Kahmazoo is a goal within his team's grasp. 
"'i'he whole team is going to have to run their best race," he said. "Butitcan bf' done." 
The Belles will line up at the Wh Jfletree Hill Golf Course in Con~ord, Mich. along \'Vith Calvin, Kalamazoo, Adrian, Alma, I lope, Olivet and host Albion. 
Calvin's women's cross-country 
everyone run 
their best time 
this meet and to continue running as a pack," he said. "All I ac;k is that they croc;s the finish line and be able to iell me they ran the bPst they could." 
Last year, Saint Mary's finished eighth out of nine teams at the cross-country championships ahead of Olivet. Olivet is unable to field a complete team this year and will finish last by default. 
The five-kilometer championship race will kick off at noon on Saturday Oct. 28, following the men's race that begins at 11 a.m. 
The Belles will finish their season at the Regional meet held at 

ROWING 
Irish look to star in Elkhart regatta 
ByJEFF BALTRUZAK Sports Wricer 
After a fall season full of Midwest travel, the Irish will take a short trip to Elkhart this Sunday to row in the I lead of thP. Elk regatta. Coming off a disappointing perfor­mance against Michigan State, Notre Dame hopes to gain momen­tum I.hat will carry into (he spdng season with strong finic;hes on the St. Joseph River. 
With the race so close to· home, the Irish view the Head of the Elk as the pinnacle of the fall season, a culmination of their work in previ­ous races in Chicago, Rockford and East Lansing. If racing in front of the home crowd is not enough to inspire the Irish, racing rowing powerhouse Michigan will be. 
"I would say it's a big race," sophomore rower Ashlee Warren said. "Michigan "will be there, and they've been to the NCAAs the last few years." 
"It should be interesting to see how we stack up against some of the best teams in the Midwest," she added. 
The Irish will face some new challenges this weekend besides just the 2 112 mile course. Pair rac­ing has been a source of success for Notre Dame this fall season behind the consistent rowing of Warren and her partner Becky Luckett. HowevPr. Sunday's race hll.5 no pair events. 
The open fours competition, which caused problems for the squad against Michigan State two weeks ago, will feature the first varsity eight boat divided into two four boats, with the stern four rowers competing in the A race and the bow fow· rowers in the B compPtition. 
"We haven't rowed in that par­ticular four yet,'' said Warren, who will be in the A race. "But we should be able to row together because we're just half of the eight. 
"I'm looking forward to that race, it should be pretty fast," she continued. 
As for the eights competition, the first varsity eight boat that has competP.d together the entire sea­son will stay with the same lineup 
and will be coxod by senior captain 
Clare Bula. The Irish will once 
again mix lightweight row1\rs into 
the other varsity eights. 
The regatta will feature light­weight racing, whereas the com­petition against Michigan State did not. The Irish will race two strong four boats. with Kerri Murphy. Leah Ashe, Laura Aull, Diana LaQuinta and captain coxswain Erin Kiemicki competing in the A race. 
The team will send a total of six boats of eight rowers into four dif­ferent novice eight races. 
Notre Dame's somewhat lacklus­ter team performance against Michigan State two weekends ago has yielded some positives for the Irish. 
"If anything, it provided more motivation for this week," Warren said. "It will push us faster." 
Plenty is at stake for the Irish rowers in Elkhart, with conse­quences for the later in the year. 
"Its important for us to have a strong performance when we go into winter training and the spring season." Warren said. "We're excited about how we've started." 


Lafortune
incl. Snacks 
and Soda 
Ballroom 
BEST COSTUMES WIN BOOKSTORE GIFT CERTIFICATES! 
Questions? Call Trevor (4-l356) 
Sponsored by FlipSide 
-The Real Social Scene­
www.nd.edu/~flipside 
Friday, October 27, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
MEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
Alulllni hopes to secure revenge against Keenan Sunday 
By JAMES VERALI and TODD 
NIETO 
Sport> Wrirers 
The Keenan Knights are hop­ing for a replay as they take on the Alumni Dawgs in the first round of the playoff.<; Sunday. 
Keenan comes in as the 4th seed with a 3-1 record. Alumni took the filth seed in the playoffs and also finished with a 3-1 mark. 
In week three of the regular season, the Knights blanked the Oawgs 13-0 in a very impressive performance. However. repeat­ing that performance will be a diflicult task. 
"The second time you play a team is always harder than the first," Keenan quarterback Billy Ellsworth said. 
"They will make the necessary adjustments from the first game. we will need to notice the adjustments and make some 

ourselves," Brian Kunitzcr added. 
Both teams finished off the regular season with a win and feel very confident, especially on the defensive side of the ball. With two strong defenses, the game will turn on which defense fa! Is first. 
Linebacker Bailey Siegfried, who has come through with many key plays throughout tho season to help the Dawgs shut out three of their four oppo­nents, leads the "Oawgy O." 
Tho Keenan defense has already shut out the Alumni offense. 
Offensively, both teams will look to their offensive lines to lead the way. 
LIZ LANG/The Observer

"It's going to be a battle of the lineman," Siegfried said. Alumni special teams attempts to block a kick earlier this season. The Dawgs will have a "Whoever overpowers each rematch Sunday against Keenan in the first round of the interhall playoffs. 
other in the trenches will win this game." 
The offensive line was certain­ly tho difference for Keenan in their win over Alumni, as they provided the push enabling run­ning back Brian Kunitzcr to overpower the defense down the stretch. 

Alumni counters with a pow­erful rushing attack of their the offensive lineman. own. Tailback Alex Roodhouse Both teams have also shown and fullback Brandon Nunnink strong signs in the passing have handled the ball very well game. Freshman Alumni quar­this season behind the push of terback Chris Cottingham will 

The next meeting will be held Wednesday, November P1, at 5:30 p.m. in the CSC. The theme is "lnterrace: Standing Alone,'. The focus is isolation in a homogenous setting. 
Dinner provided courtesy ofMulticultural Student Programs and Services. Please RSVP by October 30th! Call 1-1684. 

Vieti1aniese Student­!Association 
ef'Notre 'Dame 
(VSA) 
Firs-t General Meet"inglll 
When: 8:30pm, Sunday, Oct'ober 29, 2000 Where: LaFor'tune Coalii'"ion Room (2nd floor) Who: All ini"eres-ted par-ties! 
(Questions? Contact ND.vsand.1@nd.edu) 
face off against the Keenan passing attack that is led by the connection between Ellsworth and wide out John Hussy. 
Both teams feel that they have something to prove from last year's disappointments. After running the tabli:l last year in the regular season, Alumni's hopes of winning the title were dashed in an early, unexpected playoff exit. 
The Knights lost to Sorin in the second round of the playoffs last year for their first playoff loss in three seasons, ending their string of back-to-back championships. 
One thing is for sure; lack of intensity won't be a problem out on Stepan field Sunday. Both teams know that they can win, but are also aware that it is going to take a valiant effort on both sides of the ball to advance to the next round. 
"It will be our toughest game of the year," said Kunitzer. 
When asked what it's going to take to beat Keenan this week, Alumni tailback Alex Roodhouse responded, "Ask them after we run all over them on Sunday." 
Dillon vs. Stanford 
II 
The bone-crushing action of interhall football has returned to Notre Dame after a weeklong fall break. Sunday in the first round of the playoffs, the Dillon 
Bulldogs will face off against the Griffins of Stanford at 1 p.m. at the Stepan Fields in a game that is sure to get the adrenaline pumping. 
The Bulldogs have dominated interhall football, posting an impressive 4-0 record. Dillon has a strong lineup that includes quarterback Tate Odom, line­man Joe Parker. defensive end Rick Hasty and running back Chris Crane. 
"We played Stanford at the beginning of the season but we l have both improved since the -lIbeginning of the season," Jason 
I

Visner said. "It is going to be a 
whole different ballgame." 
Stanford comes into Sunday's I I game with a 2-2 record. The I I Griffins are looking towards tail­I I back J.C. Perez, guard/defensive tackle Josh Caakua. and wide receiver/cornerback Corey Hartmann to provide the team with the key plays needed to beat Dillon. 
"Everyone on our team is ready to play against Dillon again," said Griffin captain Errol Rice said. "If we play like we 
l!::==================================================::!I know we can play, it should be a
good game." 
--~----------------­
page 30 The Observer. SPORTS Friday, October 27, 2000 
with the victory. starred at nearby Valparaiso able and understand exactly preseason game for both Chicago, after trailing for University, playing for his what I'm supposed to do." teams. Indiana opens its sea­
]Bulls 

most of the game, closed in on father. As a senior, the Drew Brand Jed alt scorers with 26 son on Halloween night in San 
continued from page 36  Indiana at the end of the third quarter. With 1:53 remaining  led the surprising Crusaders to the NCAA Sweet 16. Drew hit a  points to go along with 16 rebounds, the third consecu­ Antonio, while the Bulls open the same evening at home  
d,:mce in my abilities, so that's  in the quarter, Bulls' point  shot at the buzzer to defeat Ole  tive preseason game in which  against Sacramento.  
that."  guard  Bryce  Miss in the  Brand has led Chicago in scor­ Tonight's game was full of  
In the overtime period, the g,1me was tied at 103 before Marcus Fizer fouled Indiana center Bruno Sandov. Sandov hit both free throws, giving the Pacers a 2-point advantage. Following Sandov's free  Drew hit a 20­footer from the top of the key to tie the game at 72. Following an Brand steal 10 seconds later,  "/ think we're all trying to learn things out, so hopefully at the start of the season I'll get more comfortable. "  first round. Drew, now play­ing in the Bulls' tri­a n g l e offense, is  ing. Brand entered the game averaging 22 points per con­test on the preseason, fourth in the NBA. Mercer added 20 for the Bulls. while Hon Artest came off the bench to score 10.  Hoosier connections. The Pacers are now coached by Isiah Thomas, who starred for Indiana University for two years in the early '80s before embarking on a Ilall-of-Fame career in the NBA. Thomas  
tt.rows, Chicago point guard Jamal Crawford missed a 25­footer before fouling ILlrrington. Harrington hit one of two free throws to give the Puccrs a 3-point lead. Guyton's 3-point attempt  Drew found slowly Fizer on a fast adjusting toBryce Drew break to give the newBulls point guardChicago its first style of 2-point lead of play. the half. "I think we're all trying to Drew returns to the Midwest learn things out," he said, "so  For the defending-Eastern Conferencfl Champion Pacers, forward Jonathan Bender came off tho bench to lead the team in scoring, notching 19 points on 6-12 shooting in 34 minutes. Austin Croshere  remembers Notre Dame leav­ing a mark on his sophomore season, in which the Hoosiers won the NCAA Championships. "We lost to Notre Dame 68­64," Thomas said, remember­ing a visit to Notre Dame's  
with time running down fell short and the Pacers escaped  after playing two seasons for the Houston Rockets. Drew  hopefully at the start of the season I'll get more comfort- added 15 for Indiana. The game marked the final  home court. "that was the year we won it."  

ran 
S T U D 
Recording• Production• Ma11 .· Duplication• Music &yocal · Demo Production • Music Equl' .. 
Sound & Lights • Sales I R · Analog 2" & Digital Hard Drive S 
"The Biggest Recording Stu In Northwe11t Indiana·• -)
·• 
Please recycle The Observer 

nts • Gift Certificates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
r'VOT£D#1 ' bypeopleI whoknow  For Your Best Tan Ever! Get a Fun Tan!  I I  
,~~~  I  
I  I  
: I  -·  ..  I / .-,±~ ,a.  I l , L \ I  1111 ••\11> < I • -,.  .  iil I  
_,.Ai  0~:ur choice/ Eith:IO tanni:g bed :ssionsfoe just$:5  1  

OR an entire Month of bed tanning for only $40. I AND when you bring in this coupon get 25% off our wide selection of tanning lotions! 
I 

272-7653 NEW University Location State Road 23 & Ironwood 
I 

256-9656 Corner of Grape and McKinley 291-2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironwood 
L. ---, __. -------------------.-.. J 

CENTER FOR 

"Vision without action is merely a dream. Action without vision 
SOCIAL 

just passes the time. Vision with action can change the world."
CONCERNS 
-Joel Barker 
Appduhia Seminar: 
Washington Seminar. 
Karla Acavan Andrew OlejnikDavid Baroni Brian Wolford Caroline Beal 

Congratulations and thanks to the over 210 participants of the 
Andrea Mechenbier 
M. Katie Bears Molly Norton 
Daniel Beissel 
Maria Alevras 
Sarah Benton John Beltramo Kevin Berrill 

Appalachia Seminar 
Elizabeth Burnell 
Jennifer Betz Sarah CoffeyRachel Biber Juliana de Sousa Solis 
Carolyn Billick Alberto Garza 
Anthony Bishop 

Children & Poverty Seminar 
Courtney Giel Bryan Boll David HartwigDouglas Borgmann Katharine Licgcl Colleen Bovich Luke MacaulayAnne Bowman 

Cultural Diversity Seminar 
Amy Marshall Ben Broussard Patrick mcGreevy Gretchen Bryant Dory Mitros Marcia Buescher Kristin Peirano Dan Buonadonna 

Washington, o.c. Seminar 
Kimberly Rubcis Tonio Buonassisi JcmarTisby
Tom Campbell Kathleen Ward 
Sarah Casado Henry Chan 

who represented The University of Notre Dame and Saint 
Angela Chaput 
Cultural Diversity:
Erin Chrisley 

Mary's College during Fall Break 2000 in service and experiential
Leanor Cimino Patience McHenryMichael Conklin 

learning at 14 sites across the nation. 
Nathan Corrigan Erin Costantini  Jonathan Alvarez Allison Childs  
Jordan Cumes  Kelly Cooney  
Claire Dampeer  Danielle Ledesma  
Joanne Davidson  Anne Um  
Andrew DeBeny Mark DeMott VinceDeSapio Katie DiSipio Kurt Dotson Erin Doyle Anna Dummer Meg Dunne Chad DuPont Adrianna Easton Anne Eisele Erin English Melissa Ferguson Kelly f"15her Jennie Flannery James Flynn Megan Flynn Brian Ford Josh Fulcher Katie Gaffney  lohn Gibbons Mariah Gide! Carrie Gonyo Daniel Goodwin Melissa Green Lauren Gruber Julie Hansen Kelly Harris Joe Hay Kristina Helquist D. Allen Hemberger Katie Hennessy Lane Herrington Jenny Hickman Charles Holden-Corbett Meredith Holt Mary Beth Hoizmer Jennifer Hooyman Bridget Home Jillian Houghton  Jill Inghram R. Alex Jackson Jina Jensen Elizabeth Jeub Egan Kilbane Jason Klocek Virginia Knapke Michael Knowskl Kristin Kramer Matthew Lafratta Margaret Laracy Jenny Liem W. Jordan Linville Joe Lordi Roger Loughney Anthony Lusvardi Rebecca Lyman Kristen Mackrell Kathryn Malpass Marie-Therese Mansfield  Chris Manuel Christopher Manin Patrick McAllister Katie McCarthy Maureen McCanhy Michael McDonald Katie McFarland William Mcllllyre Colleen Moak Anthony Mohr Molly Munslerer Chris Muro Tiffany Natelborg Jackic Nesson Adam Nicholson Colleen O'Connor Claire Oravec Jeanna Palmer Jaye Parody Andrew Polaniecki  Angela Polsinelli Colin Powers Anne Preston Mark Price Brian Purcell Bridget purdue Katie Rakowski John Randles Ka tie Reijula Chris Reilly Mark Reynolds Josh Rich Maureen Ripsom Emily Roebuck Mark Roland Pamela Ronson Neil Ruddock, 111 Meridith Rnnke Christina Ryan Zach Sacl;iey  Elizabeth Sain Kay Scanlan Robby $.:hiller Emily Schmitt Emmeline Schoen Peter Schupp Cynthia Shea Steve Silxer Brian Siniolon Ellen Smith Erin Smith Jenna Spanbauer Annie Spillner Nicholas St. Ores Margaret Starnes Edward Stocks Elizabeth Stroude Abbey Sullivan Keri Ann Suzuki Carrie Sweeney  Katie Taft Chris Taggart Kim Talianko Carolyn Tampe Dawn Terashima Alexandra Torres Laura Tushaus Laura Uberti Jeanine Valles Chelsie Venechuk Lynn Vichick Brooke Wagner Meg Wallace Weston Webb Beth Webber Carin Weingarten Christine White David Woo Donald Woznica Peter Yaches  Erin McGniie Jason Perskins Jourdan Sorrell Children & roverty Sem: Cecille L.ivellc Kalie Lewis Tim Perrell Wade Braunecker Derrick llravo Elizabeth Frost Brian LaBine Scott Little Maura Malloy Chrissy Mazurkiewicz Colleen Murphy Thomas O'ConJ1ell Amy l'irouti,Jc Mary Beth Stryker  

Friday, October 27, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 31 
NBA 
Stern explains penalties levied on Timberwolves 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 

NBA commissioner David 
Stern  said  Thursday  that  
"shocking"  fraud  by  the  
Minnesota  Timb-erwolves  

forced him to inflict record punishment over a secret con­tract for star forward Joe Smith. 
Stern stripped the Wolves of five first-round draft choices and fined the team $3.5 mil­lion for the agreement. which an arbitrator found was 
intended to circumvent the NBA salary cap. "The fact is, we gave this a lot more thought than the 

parties in t h e Minnesota franchise who risked their future by engag­ing in one of the most far-reach­
Smith ing frauds 
w e ' v e 
seen," Stern said. 

"This was a fraud of major Stern's punishment of the proportions. There were no Wolves could include one-year fewer than five undisclosed suspensions for owner Glen 
contracts  Taylor and any•  
tucked away. hop­ing they'd  "We gave this a lot more thought than the parties  one in the orga· nization who took part in the  
never  sec  in the Minnesota  deal.  
the light of day. This is  franchise."  Stern said he hoped to sched­ 
fraud that  ule  hearings  
ripped  to  David Stern  within the next  
the  heart  NBA Commissioner  two weeks with  

of the [col­lective bar­gaining] compact. The magni­tude of this stuff is shocking." 
THrRr ARr Ator OF JOBS our TH[RE
We'll give you a new one every day. 


advertising 

The Client Service Department will be interviewing candidates 
in our Chicago Headquarters on January 5, 2001. If you plan to be in the area, submit your resume online through Golrish no later than November 15th. Candidates selected will be notified in early December. http://recruiting.leoburnett.com 
Taylor and 

o t h e r Timberwolves officials, possi­bly including vice president Kevin McHale and coach Flip Saunders, to determine whether they will be suspend­ed. 
At halftime of Minnesota's exhibition game with Detroit on Thursday night, Taylor apologized to Minnesotans and accepted full responsibili­ty. He said he did not realize when he made the agreement that he was breaking rules of the collective bargaining agreement and said unusual circumstances were involved that he would not reveal. 
"There are always reaso,ns why things happen," Taylor said. "They're not as simple as they seem." 
The NBA said the fine was the stiffest ever imposed by the league on any franchise, player or other individual and the maximum allowed. Spokesman Brian McIntyre also said he could not recall any team being stripped of multiple draft choices. 
It's the loss of draft choices that is particularly damaging to a franchise that will be at or near the top of the salary cap as long as it is carrying forward Kevin Garnett's $126 million contract through 2004. Without draft picks or the ability to pursue high-priced free agents, manage­ment will have little room to bulk up the roster around Garnett. 
"We'll still want to field good teams," Taylor said. "It'll be harder, more difficult. We always recognized we were in a small market and it would always be more diffi­cult to attract good players. We'll have to be lucky. I
...'====================~-=-=-=..;;;..:.=.=..:.=.=.=.=.=_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:______________, teams such as Dallas and the 

understand that." The job might be tougher than Taylor suggested. 
"I was reading across the page and the draft picks just kept going." New York Knicks general manager Scott Layden said. "The money is probably the least of the penalty, but collectively it shows that the commissioner is not soft on circumvention." 
At a team shootaround Thursday morning, Saunders said the Wolves were used to dealing with adversity. 
"We've been through a lot in the last five years," he said. "We were written off when we lost Googs [Tom Gugliotta] and Stephon [Marbury]. We won 50 games when a lot of people didn't think we could." 
Saunders said he didn't know whether the Wolves would appeal the penalties. 
Garnett said the ruling would not affect whether he stays with the Wolves when his contract expires. 
"It's very, very easy to jump ship when things get hard," Garnett said. "It's very, very easy to start thinking differ­ently. I'm not that type of per­son. I'm a loyal cat. I do know that running from your prob­lems will not solve problems." 
NBA arbitrator Kenneth Dam ruled Monday that the Timberwolves signed a secret agreement with Smith in January 1999 that was worth as much as $86 million over seven years. With the NBA,. meanwhile, the Timberwolves filed a one-year contract worth $1.7 5 million, allow­able under the salary cap. 
Stern said he abided by the arbitrator's ruling when he voided Smith's current $2.5 million contract and his past two contracts with the Timberwolves, preventing Smith from signing a lucrative contract with them after this season. 
Though Smith has said he would like to re-sign with the Timberwolves, NBA deputy commissioner Russ Granik said the arbitrator's ruling also would allow Stern to void a contract if Smith re-signed. 
Smith's future remained uncertain Wednesday, though 
Knicks have expressed inter­
est. 
Though he has said he would like to re-sign with the Timberwolves, their salary­cap limitations would limit him to $611,000, about one­tenth what the Chicago Bulls could offer. 
His agent, Dan Fegan. did not return telephone calls Thursday. 
"Everyone here's main con-. cern is for Joe and that he does what's right for him," Garnett said. "We still love him. He's still our man." 
Stern denied that the Timberwolves were being made an example for under­the-table deals that supposed­ly are common. Though Stern said the NBA actively pursues· all "wink-and-a-nod" deals, 
1many turn out to be rumors. 1 "I think we all were shocked Iat the level of what went on 'here," Granik said. "David 
and I have been around long enough not to be shocked by very much. I would be shocked to learn that some­thing of this level has hap-J 
pened before. I think this is a 
_J

totally different level." 
.. ·-----------------------------------------------------------­
page 32 
\IVOMEN'S SOCCER 
IJelles believe they <~an finish strong 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sr·orts Writer 

As the lone senior on the Saint Mary's soccer squad, Laura Paulen has been a leader and a solid player for the entire year. On Saturday. she will play her final collc­gi ate game, as the Belles face 
off  against  the  Flying  
Dutchmen of Hope.  
''I'd like to  finish  out  our  

season strong," senior Laura Pt.ulen said. "We definitely have the ability to beat Hope." 
3ecause of' a change in league play, this will be Pa ulen 's last game as well as the Belles' last competition for the season. The MIAA tournament has been replaced with round-robin play, where each team in the league plays the others twice and the NCAA bid goes to the team with the most wins. 
l'aulcn and other players were not pleased with the syi,tem. 
"It doesn't give teams the chance to improve through tho season and then play at that improved level for the tournament." Paulen said. 
Hut after Tuesday's compet­itive effort against league­leader Albion, Paulen has no do·1bt that the Belles can turn tht, tables on the Dutchmen. 
"I think that we are ready to finish strong," Paulen said. "Everybody's up for the game." 
The Belles improved last week to hold the Albion Britons to two goals in the first half and five overall, while scoring a goal of their own. 
During their last battle with Albion they were shutout 7-0. 
"I attribute our improve­ment to the fact that the girls am communicating really well," Milligan said. "You can see it on and off the lield." 
When Saint Mary's last faced off against llope the Belles suffered a 3-0 loss at the hands of the Dutchmen. 
her first solo appearance in 
goal. holding the Dutchmen 
scoreless in the second half. 

The Belles are ready for 
revenge. 

"As much as we've been 
through this year, (the 
women are I going to come 
out and beat up on Hope," 
head coach Jason Milligan 
said "All the things we've 
been working on all year are 
coming together." 

According to Milligan, Tia Kapphahn, junior co-captain for the Belles, will be in the net against the Dutchmen this time after recovering from an arm injury. Milligan will also be experimenting with differ­ent lineups against Hope. 
The Dutchmen are 4-11-1 overall and 4-8-1 in the MIAA. Amy Dobb leads the Dutchmen in scoring and had a hand in one of the goals in the previous meeting between the two teams on October 4. Freshman Lauren Hinkle, who took the earlier shutout for the Dutchmen, will be in goal against Saint Mary's. 
The Belles sit just behind the Dutchmen in the stand­ings with a 3-9-1 record in the MIAA and are 3-12-1 overall. 
Freshman Stephanie Artnak leads the Belles with 5 goals. Unfortunately the Belles' number two scorer, sopho­more Heather Muth is out for the season with an injury. 
Milligan sees this game as an opportunity to end a sea­son that involved a lot of adjustments and injuries on a positive note. As in past years, he looks at the last game as the senior game 
"We are going to try to cre­ate something great for [Paulen's] last game," Milligan said. "She's a great demonstration of leadership by example. She works really hard and she has been a rock on this team all year." 
The Belles face off against the Flying Dutchmen at 4 pm on Saint Mary's soccer field. 
The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S SOCCER 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Spores Editor 
The seniors of Notre Dame will say goodbye to Alumni Field as the Irish men's soc­cer team takes on the Mountaineers of West Virginia tonight. 
Tri-captains Steve Maio, Dustin Pridmore and Connor LaRose will be playing their final games in front of the Irish faithful, as will team­mates Griffin Howard, Reggie McKnight and Dan Storino. 
"Those guys have put in four long, hard years of com­mitment," head coach Chris Apple said. "They'll go out on a positive note. They've real­ly left their mark on this team as far as their work ethic and commitment." 
Apple also remarked that, although the team only won one Big East tournament game during the seniors' four years, the work ethic they have instilled in the younger players will be a huge part of any success the team has in the future. 

"They've instilled an atti­tude within the team that is more important than the wins," said Apple. "They've laid the foundation." 
This weekend's game pits two of the four Big East teams that will not compete in the Big East tournament, as only the top eight teams in the conference make the tournament. West Virginia's only Big East win came against Boston College, who are currently third in the conference, on Oct. 7 in Morgantown, W.V. The Mountaineers also tied the Orangemen of Syracuse in September. 

LIZ LANG/The Observer 

Irish forward Griffin Howard moves the ball downfield against Pittsburg earlier this season. The men's soccer team will challenge the Mountaineers tonight. 
Irish take on Mountaineers 
Friday, October 27, 2000 
Despite the Mountaineers' less than impressive record, Irish head coach Chris Apple is taking nothing for granted against West Virginia. 
"They're a lot like we are," said Apple. "From what the other coaches have told me, they're a very talented team." 
The Mountaineers bring in a balanced offense with six players who have tallied six or more points. On defense, the West Virginians have had a rotating spot in goal, where three different players have logged Lime. The Mountaineers bring in a three-game losing streak, recently falling to the Panthers of Pitt 2-0 on Oct. 22. 
The Irish and Mountaineers kick off tonight at 7:30 pm. 

Freshman netminder Laura Metzger turned in an 11-save performance for the Belles in 
Here's Good News For You! 
Attention Students: Looking for Flexible Days & Hours? 
We are looking for people with good communication skills to offer products & services on behalfofmajor in..u..w.ce & credit card companies. No experience necessary!. 
We offer the following: •$7.50-$10.00iHour "Flexible Schedules "Evening and Day shifts ~Paid Vacationsillolidays "Optional Saturdays 
•Incentives/Raises 
~supervisory & Management opportunities 
1 (888) 801-JOBS 
Just 35 minutes from campus! EOE 


Turtle Creek APartments Is Now Takin1 Applications For The 1001 ·1001 School Year! S1op BJ The Leasin1 Office Today 10 Pick UpYourInformational Packett 
T11rtle Creek Apartments "The Students' First Choice In Off Campos Housing" 1710 Turtle Creek Drive Phone:272-8124 
M-F 9am -6pm Sat 10am -51,m 
"IJocated just east of the Notre Dame soccer field" 

Friday, October 27, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 33 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish to battle Hurricanes in Big East tourney 
week Lisa Gomez, the

By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Hurricanes will have their 

Sports Writer 
hands full dealing with an Irish attack that is just now 

The auditions are over, returning to full strength. Sunday afternoon the show Notre Dame could not have opens for real. The Notre picked a better time to get Dame women's soccer team healthy. Warner, returning finished the regular season from an injury, p Iaye d a ranked No. 1 with a record mere 20 minutes against of 17-0-1, but when the Big Michigan in the regular sea­
East quarterfinals kickoff son finale, but nevertheless 
this  week- scored  her  
end,  each  eighth  goal  
team's slate will have b e e n  "/ think they'll come out to play us and take some  of the sea­son. Warner's  
cleared.  chances."  return gives  
The Miami  the Irish  an  
Hurricanes blow in to  Amy Warner  element of speed they'd  
South Bend  Notre Dame forward  lacked in her  

represent­ing the first hurdle the Irish must clear on the road to an eighth-consecutive confer­ence title. Though the Hurricanes are just 9-9-1 on the year, they have enjoyed considerable success of late, going 3-1-1 in their last five games. 
"It should be exciting," freshman Amy Warner said. "Anyone can beat anyone in the playoffs." 
Led by a strong defense anchored by reigning confer­ence defensive player of the absence. The 
first year 
player's abil­
ity to get behind defenders and beat them to I.he bail is unparal­leled and her presence forces the opposition to be careful in clearing the defen­sive zone. 
"It felt good to get out there," Warner said. "It was good for my confidence. I'm wearing a brace on my knee and that hurt my speed a lit­tle, but I think as I get used to it I'll get back to where I was." 
The Irish will receive an unexpected boost from the return of senior co-captain and player of the year candi­date Anne Makinen, who was not supposed to play with a knee injury. Makinen believes she can play on the . knee without risking further injury. 

Head coach Randy Waldrum will use Makinen as needed this weekend. If the game is close, she'll play, but if the Irish leave nothing but the margin of victory in doubt, Waldrurn would pre­fer to rest his star player. 
Many teams have packed the goal box with six defend­ers but the Irish expect the Hurricanes to play aggres­sively and attack them. 
"I think they'll come out to play us and take some chances," Warner said. "They'll definitely be gun­ning for us." _ 
Although mainly a defen­sive player, Gomez will be called upon to quarterback whatever offensive attack the Hurricanes can muster. 
Gomez set a school record with four assists in a game last week, all on long down­field passes to streaking for­wards. 
Freshman of the year can­didate Vonda Matthews will be looking to receive any long pass struck by Gomez 


and start the Hurricane tain Kelly Lindsey who will counterattack. miss the game with a The Irish defense will once strained medial collateral again be without senior cap-ligament. 
¦ 

page 34 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 27, 2000 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Notre Dame wraps up successful fall schedule 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Spans Writer 
If this fall season is any indi­
cation of what is to come in 
the spring, then the Notre 
Dame men's tennb team may 
have an exciting future ahead. 
The Irish wrap up the !"all 
season after a successful cam­
paign as they travel to 
Madison, \Vis .. to participate 
in the Intercollegiate Tennis 
Association Midwest 
Championships. 
"I'm verv excited with the 
progress we've made." Irish 
head coach Bob Bayliss said. 
"It's early, and steps are 
small. but we'v1\ continually 
stepped forward as the year 
has gcmc on, and I think that 
it bodes well for us in thti 
spring." 
Notre Dame is allowed six 
singles entries and two dou­
bles entries in the regional 
tournament, which includes 
teams from the Big Ten con­
ference. Conference USA. the 
Missouri Valley Conference, 
and all teams within the 
Midwest region. Bayliss has 
penciled in Casey Smith, 
Aaron Talarico, Javier 
Taborga, Luis Haddock­
Morales, Matt Scott, and 
Andrew Laflin in singles: 
while the doubles pairings will 
be ninth-ranked Taborga and 
Talarico, along with the duo 
of Brian Farrell and Ashok 
Raju. 
Due to the shared success 
by all of the Irish players, 
decisions about the make-up 
of the line-up were difficult, 
but the controversy could only 
be a win-win situation. 
"It was very, very close between Laflin and Farrell." Bayliss said. "Basically it was a flip of a coin, they've both earned the right to play. and they're both 10-1 for the fall. As a result I'm going to play Farrell in doubles with Ashok Raju, but an equally deserving guy was James Malhame. That was sort of an unusual pairing, but I think its some­thing we can get some mileage out of." 
After a surprisingly success­ful showing in the singles por­tion of the recent ITA Men's All-American Championships, Taborga is sure to have an impact on Notre· Dame's suc­cess this weekend. The Irish junior plowed through an elite f1eld at the previous tourna­ment. upending Stanford's third-seeded and defending champion K.J. Hippensteel to land a spot in the round of 16 before he was defeated. 
"[Taborga) obviously had a great tournament in Stone Mountain, Georgia, and we're real excited to see him make a breakthrough," Bayliss said. "I think he is one of several people on QUr team that is capable of doing what he did." 
Taborga also performed well in the doubles segment of the tournament, advancing to the semil1nals with Talarico. marking the first time since 1994 that Notre Dame has advanced a doubles pairing to the semifinals of a grand slam event. 
The remainder of the Irish contingent will also look to advance in this weekend's tournament and Bayliss knows that his team has the talent to do so. 
"Luis Haddock has had an outstanding fall." Bayliss 

noted. "He's a verv talented freshman, one of the probably top two or three freshmen in the country. Casey Smi-th has made a big jump in his game, and Aaron Talarico has matured as a player. [Along wilh Taborgal those four guys have led us, and. Matt Scott has been a vrry strong impact freshman. And I feel like at six. between Laflin and Farrell, I think we have great chances to win there with either one of those guys." 
The ITA Midwest Champion9'hips offers the Irish an opportunity to qualify for the elite National Rolex Singles and Doublos Indoor Championships in rebruary. 
The winner and runner-up in the singles portion of this weekend's competition are 
JOHN DAILY/The Observer 

given automatic entry into the 
Irish tennis player, Javier Taborga, returns the ball with a smashing backhand. He will play for
national tournament next year. while the doubles win­
Notre Dame in the Midwest regional tournament. · 
ner is also guaranteed a spot. 
Due to the selection process. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Bayliss knows  
that the Irish need to take advantage of the opportuni­ ~ ~ '­ Are you. involved in tutoring children? Want to be more effective? If so, you are invited to the  ~ ~ '­ 
ty  to  qualify  
this weekend. "The rest of  ~  Tu.tor Trai:ni:ng  ~  
the Rolex field  
[that does not earn an auto­matic bid] is filled with at­large entries.  ~ '­ Workshop - ' ~ '  
and it's a very limited, select  '-~  ~  
tournament, so that there are only 32  ~ '  Wednesday, November 1 st,  6-9 pm  ~ '  
singles players  ~  Center for Social Concerns  ~  
in it," Bayliss said. "It's  ~  Pizza dinner will be provided!  '­'  
more elite than the NCAA tourna­ment. because  ~'­~ ~ ~  Campus an.d local experts will facilitate training sessions. Topics to be addressed in.elude: * Teaching Children. to Read * Teaching Children. lVlath * Discipline * Conflict lVlan.agemen.t  ~ ~ ~ ~  
the NCAA has 64. The pur­ '  *  Tutoring Fundamentals  *  lVlotivatin.g students  '  
pose  is  to  ,,  Due to food and space limitations, please reserve  '  
qualify  for  ~  your spot by 5pm, l\llonday, October 30th  by phone  ~  
that  this  ~  (631-5293) or e-mail (Cahill.19@n.d.edu).  ~  
weekend."  '  

~•~T~ff. ;.oc:~~'-'~~'-~~~~~~~ 
•-C>NCERNS 


For ticket infonnation contact the 1,,1a, ...,,~ c.,,.,.~ Saint Mary's Box Office at 1MC_(iff&,/
284-4626~~,;:.A.=.,W 
P~au join. u:r in :rupport of IM Tin Cenur for tl,e Ho-le11 by bringing a donation ofcanned food to the conc.ert, Thert! will be collection baskets al IM entranct:r. 

Friday, October 27, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 35 
TYLERTOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSEFOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 
I.AVNl)RY. TACKY POSTERS, AN!> BEVERAGES Of ILL REPVTE 

VAC\JVMEI) C,A,Af'ET? MADE Bet>? l:MAGINE THIS. H'S PARENT'S ARE YOUR PARENTS COMING WEEICENI). YOI.IR PARENTS AAE ~---rc_o_VISIT?_____~ HERE ANI) THEY PROBABLY WANT NO. BUT OTHER PEOPLE'S TO see YOUR ROOM. 8VT YOUR PARENTS ARE ROOM IS FULL OF DtRTY  NOW YOU COULD WORK "'1.1. l>AY AN!> CI.EAN IT VP, ~ YOO COlJl.l> ~IVE ME FIVE BUCKS, BRING YOUR f.AA\ILY HERE. ANO PREiEND MY ROOM IS YOVRS  I EVEN BOUGHT REA.DER'S blGEST. COVEREI> THE WALLS WITM INsl"IlUTIONAL POSTERs, ANI) STOCKE() THE FRrME WITH FRUrrS AN!> VESETABLES.  

Fox TROT BILLAMEND 
I LIICE HOLIDAYS HAR THAT ASK US To 
REFLECT ON THINGS, DON'T YOU? ­
what an 8:30 a.m. class feels like 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Comparatively 40 Preener, cockeyed perhaps
1 Persian War 41 Made a pig of 
participant 25 Mass communication? 
oneself? 7 It may take a 
43 Guardian

beating 27 Flu symptom 45 Loosen, as a
28 It's a wrap13 Pillars of the 37-Downcommunity 29 Playground 

46 Big rolls 14 Film critic Kael 
equipment 

47Boil 15 Wind god 
30 Swallow 
48 Grayish green 31 Like some pie

16 Like some 49 Treasure _
crusts

stomachs 32 If-_ (computer
17 Rattle ofa sort 
DOWN

routines) 18 National 1 Place vulnerable 
33 Popular

competitor to ripping
supermarket 19 Claustrophobic tabloid 2 They're entered patient's dread in court 
34 

34 "_ sorry .. ." 20 Siren 3 Like loads 
39
35 Desire in the 4 Become less22 Make snaps, offing? 

gripping? 
43

say 
39 Mathematician 5 Gas station 

23 Sled parts Lovelace 46
plazas 6 Attacker 
48

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 It holds water 


I  N A N E  8 Causes of some  Puzzle by Brendan Emmett Quigley  
N O N E  T  spinning wheels  22 One given away  31 Like some pie  37 It may have a  
A T T W E I  I  C  9 Philip Roth's "_, the Fanatic" 10 Sent flying? 11 Does some shoal  24 Sancerre and Sylvaner 25 Tears 26 Memorable 1999 hurricane  cruSts 33 Subjects of ratios 35 Country singer Carter 36 Small fjord  blade 38 "Psycho" co-star, 1998 40 Ran 42 Believe 44 Early evictee  
searching?  27 19th hole  
12 "The Alchemist'' painter ·  28 It's full of 29-Downs  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
14 Makes  29 See 28-Down  1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
concrete?  30 Prominent 1988  Annual subscriptions are available for the  
16 Malicious  Bush campaign  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
21 Punch  adviser  years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  


Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2000 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Dylan Thomas, Peter Firth, Jayne Kennedy, Simon LeBon, Lee Greenwood, John Cleese, Patty Sheehan 
Happy Birthday: It's time to reap the rewards. Stop pushing so hard and let things fall into place. You will start to make mistakes if you let frus­tration stand in the way of your progress. You've already put in the time, so sit back and let everything fall into place. To reach your true objective, you must learn to have fun and enjoy life. Your numbers: 2, 16, 24, 25, 33, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will feel anxious if you don't have a busy schedule planned. Be sure to do something physical to use up that excess energy. Put your efforts into professional advancement. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Col­leagues will misunderstand you if you aren't careful what you say to others. You should make arrange­ments to get out with friends. You need to be around supportive individuals. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't feel obligated to pay for others. Someone you live with may pose a problem for you. It is best to work on investments and moneymaking projects. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may want to take a long hard look at your financial situation .. Changes are in order. Romantic opportunities will develop if you become involved in worthwhile groups. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel will be most rewarding. You can make gains at work if you present your ideas to superiors or apply for a better-paying position. Family 
EUGENIA LAST 
outings should be on your list. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Check out possible investments. You stand to make some extra cash. You will have a tendency to overspend on in­dulgences. Don't be too quick to blame others for your own misgivings. 
0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Get involved in a cause you truly believe in. You should clear up legal matters or personal papers. Joint financial ventures can be lucrative. You will be emotional with your lover. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You 
may be a little too aggressive for 
your mate. Slow down, take your 
time and let things happen. Get 
involved in group activities. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): Get busy and start new courses or learn valuable information through conversations. You may have a problem with co-workers. Keep your thoughts to yourself. 
000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Financial limitations will occur if you have been too generous with rela­tives. You should ·talk to those you admire concerning your personal intentions. Unexpected events will affect your status. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Your emotional partner may be look­
ing for an excuse to argue. Don't be 
coerced into such encounters. Travel 
opportunities will bring you into 
contact with interesting individuals. 
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Look 
into small business ventures. Your 
personal partner may not be quite as 
enthusiastic as you had hoped. Con­
tracts may not be straightforward. 
Read between the lines. 000 

Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, emotional and serious by nature. You will stand up for your rights and protect the ones you love. You are dedicated, loyal and willing to meet all challenges.
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) © 2000 Universal Press Syndkate 


Hostin' 
The Miami Hurricanes visit Alumni Field on Sunday to take on the Irish in the Big East tournament.
PORTS 
page 29 
r\!_HE 

page 36 voSERVER 

NBA PRESEASON 

Pacers top Bulls I06-103 in front of Joyce Center crow-d 
. Thomas, Guyton, 
. Young players adjust to Drew play key roles in professional game return to Indiana 
Welcome back. Khalid. 
The last time Khalid El-Amin played at By NOAH AMSTADTER the Joyce Center, a group of highly intelli­Assistant Sports Editor gent, mature students greeted the then­
Connecticut point guard with chants of' Three athletes who made their 
"Bastard children, Bastard children" in
mark for Indiana schools other than reference to EI-Amin's
Notre Dame returned to the Hoosier state to play key roles in the Indiana out-of-wedlock child. Pacers' 106-103 overtime win against 
Eight months after the Chicago Bulls Thursday night in Notre Dame upset the Joyce Center. UConn 68-66 and The game·s crucial play occurred at af'tcr the national out­the end of the fourth quarter, as cry against the stu­Chicago guard A.J Guyton -last sea­
dent body's antics, El­son's Big Ten Player of the Year at Amin returned to Indiana -hit an 18-foot jumper to South Bend. But bring the Bulls to within one point of instead of being an the Pacers, 97-98. Arter Indiana hit a active participant. the foul shot. Bulls' guard Ron Mercer Chicago Bulls' rookie found last year's NBA Rookie of the was an cager onlook­Year Elton Brand. Brand hit a jump er. shot to tie the game at 99 with 47 The rookie sat on seconds left. 
the bench the entire The Pacers' Al Harrington then night with a white Gatorade towel draped missed a 14-foot jumper before across his legs. He was one of only two Guyton stole the ball from Tyus 
Bulls' players with the dreaded DNP (Did Edney with 25 seconds remaining to Not Play) -Coach's Decision seen next to 
prevent Indiana from taking the lead. their names on the score sheet. Guyton found Brand open from 15 lie heard no vulgarities and saw no feet, but Brand could not sink the obscene signs on Thursday night. But the game winner, forcing the contest into 5-foot-10 200-pounder still remembers the 
overtime. 

infamous Feb. 12 incident. 
Bulls coach Tim Ployd showed con­"During the game, it was definitely tough fidence in Guyton, who is familiar to go through, hearing that stuff," said El­with the Joyce Center after taking Amin before the Bulls lost 106-103 in over­part in the Indiana-Notre Dame bat­time to the· Indiana Pacers. "But that's 
tles during his time with the Hoosiers. behind me. I'm on to biggtir and better "I know he has the confidence in things." 
me. He's told me," said Guyton. "I As are several other 22-and under just come out and do what I can do, Chicago and Indiana players. The Bulls he knows what I can do. I have confl-DUFFY AANOULT/The Observer feature five players (El-Amin, Michigan's 
Chicago Bulls guard Bryce Drew dribbles past the Indiana Pacers' Jimmy King see BULLS/page 30 In last night's preseason game in the Joyce Center. sec CASEY/page 22 
HOCKEY · 

Spartans take advantage of power play for 5-1 victory 
their first scoring opportunity sophomore Evan Nielsen was back, scoring 15 seconds into 4-1 on the season, but Poulin 
iBy MATT ORENCHUK 

with 12:05 gone in the first called for cross checking. the period on David lnman's was optimistic for series finale 
'.iporrs Writer 

period. With four seconds left Michigan State took advantage power play goal. The Irish tonight. in the penalty kill, Michigan of the five-on-three when stepped up their offense, out­"We played well for the first 
There are three parts to any State's Steve Jackson Spartans center Jeremy shooting Michigan State in the 15 minutes of the game, and hockey team: offense, defense slammed home a perfect pass Jackson put one past Irish period 15-5. especially in the last 20 min-· and special teams. Notre right in front of the net. MSU goalie Jeremiah Kimento. Unfortunately, Michigan utes," he said. "We need to Dame needed all three to win took a 1-0 lead into intermis­A final power play with four State sophomore goalie Ryan carry that into [tonightOs] the game against Michigan sion. minutes left in the second Miller kept the Irish from get­game." State Thursday, but special The second period was the period gave Michigan State a ting on the board again, For Notre Dame to salvage a teams fell short as the beginning of the end for Notre 3-0 lead heading into the sec­putting an end to the come­series split, they will need to Spartans scored on three of Dame special teams. Irish ond intermission. back. Miller made 23 saves on improve their special teams five power-play chances to freshman Brett Lebda took a Going into the third period, 24 shots for the night. lie shut play, and not take as many win 5-1. five minute major a minute Poulin needed a new strategy. down the Irish in the remain­penalties. 
"Their special teams are into the period for checking to "I told the guys to get one der of the third period. "We took some inopportune way better than ours," Irish the back of the head. Poulin goal in the first five minutes, The Spartans broke away penalties," Poulin said. "We head coach Dave Poulin said. expected better out of his and then play five-on-five," he with two goals late in tho only took five penalties, which 
The first period saw a tight players. said. "We did both of those game. Junior Jon Insana put is going to be the norm in col­defensive game. There were "There is no place for hitting things. We had some good away an empty netter with 46 lege hockey, but they were no shots on goal until the someone in the back of the chances in the period." seconds and freshman Aaron just at the wrong time." g.:1me was eight minutes old. head in hockey," he said. "I Those chances came as the Hundt scored with 8 seconds Notre Dame faces off against 
., A Notre Dame penalty to didn't even argue the call." Jrish cut out the penalties and left to finish up the Spartan Michigan State again tonight freshman Ryan Globke for Three minutes later the Irish focused on their play. Notre win. at 7;05 pm in• the Joyce hooking gave the Spartans took another penalty when Dame looked to make a come-The loss drops the Irish to 2-Center. 


vs. Michigan State Men's Swimming 
' 

Today, vs. Kalamazoo
SPORTS Cross Country ~ Sf 
Big East Championships 7:05 p.m. ~ Today, 6 p.m. 
ATA {I
at Boston
• • Women's Swimming vs. Air Force 
Today, 9 a.m. 
vs. Miami Saturday, I :30 p'.m. 
Today, 5 p.m. 
GLANCE 


page 2 
gan1e hype 

"/l's much 
easier w play against a • 
regular offense. The option is a big 
Ryan Roberts play offense defensive end all the time ... 
"/ will be disappointed if thisj<JOlball team doesn't continue to get better throughout 

Bob Davie
the season." 
Irish head coach 

"My goal is to have our team go undefeated 
and win a bowl 
game. 
David Givens flanker 
"We'd better do a helter job of kick coverage. We are playing one ofthe premier teams ln the country 

Fisher DeBerry 
in kick.,. 
Falcon head coach 

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 27, 2000 
Irish look to keep momentum going 
By KEVIN BERCH OU Sport.s Writer 
With the possibility of an appearance in a Bowl Championship Series game on the horizon, Notre Dame head football coach Uob Davie knows his team can­not afford a letdown against the 5-2 Air Force Falcons Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Luckily for Davie the game will be played in what has to be his favorite month. 
The Irish have won their Iast 12 October tilts. with their last loss coming in 1997 at home against rival USC. Extending the streak, however, won't be easy against a Falcons team seeking a bowl appearance of its own. 
If the Irish can replicate offensive performances from thfl past two games, they stand a good chance of 
continuing their October ERNESTO LACAYOffhe Observer dominance. Offensively, Senior flanker Joey Getherall dodges a tackle against West Virginia. Getherall and the Notre Dame must look to Irish offense will need to continue their explosive offense against Air Force. control thl'! clock, with a rushing attack led by back and Mountain West "This weekend is a big not to do so, and Lovecchio sophomore Julius Jones, Conference player of the challenge for particularly has kept mistakes to a min­
and short passes by fresh­
year candidate Mike on defense." imum. The Falcons will man quarterback Matt Thiessen will be at the When the Falcon quarter-take chances defensivelyLoVecchio. helm of the dangerous back does look downfield against the freshman hop­
If the Irish are successful Falcon option attack. it's usually in the direction ing they can force the occa­early in moving the foot­"Their quarterback can of big-play wideout Hyan sional errant throw. ball, offensive coordinator do a lot of things," Davie Fleming, a 6-foot-5 target Opponents have moved Kevin Rogers will be more said. "It's something we with speed. the ball well against Air 
apt to allow things to open 
have to prepared for on The Irish secondary will Force all season long, so it up a bit and allow defense. Air Force is a good have to take care in not might as well take some LoVecchio to take the occa­football team." over-committing to a chances and gamble to try
sional shot downfield. 
A defensive front led by Thiessen run. and make some big plays. 
Controlling the clock will junior Anthony Weaver Additionally, the Irish Davie hopes only that the be crucial, because the 
must exhibit patience and must continue to hold onto team continues to improve.Falcons boast potent sure tackling in handling the football. "I'd be disappointed if
a offensive attack,· one the Thiessen. They have yet to lose a this football team doesn't Irish would love to keep off "It's going to take a great fumble in seven games -continue to get better each 
the field. Senior quarter-
effort by us," Davie said. the only team in Division I week," he said. 


Oe,/!'u-e,~i,r/ Tkfl#/1Zza/ 



Voted "BEST DELIVERED PIZZA" 
-2000 Best of Michiana 
GAME DAY SPECIAL 
r------, r------,
1 Large, 1 Topping 1 Large, 1 Topping
I I I I Papa Predicts:
Br•od1tlck1
$8.99 OR

I I I I
2 Large, 2 Topping 2 Lll•r

I I I I
$13.00 $12.99 

L------.J L------.J NOTRE DAME -37 
Moncg•r•s Sp•etcl Family Spec/cl I Large, 2 Topp/Dg and 4 I Large w/Work• 
r--------, r------, AIR FORCE -19 
I I I I 
Can• of I Laro•. 2 Topping
I I I I
Coca-Cola Claulc $17.99 01I $P0.99 I I Extra Large $20. 99 I 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's
L------.J L------.J 
271-1177 271-7272
r------, r-------, 
tote Nlglll Sp6Cla/ Grand Papa

I I I I 
9pm -I am 1 Extra Large, Monday-Thursday 11 am -1 am---­
I I I I
Large On• Topping 2 Toppings Friday-Saturday 11 am -3 am
I I I I
$1.99 $10. 99 

L___,___.J Sunday Noon -1 am
L------.J 
•The most popular # on campus" 
I I I I I 
L_ ---­
Friday, October 27, 2000 The Observer . COVER STORY page 3 
Givens enters uncharted waters 
. Powerful junior turns tables on teams by playing multiple positions 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN ,~ssociate Sports Editor 

Givens 

Pop quiz. 
Name the Irish player who position:flanker thrPw for the longest pass of year:junior the season, a 52-yarder to 
awards: USA Today honor­

Joey Gctherall. 
able mention All-America

Name thP player who leads 
lhe team in receiving. pick in high school, rated Name the player who 53rd best player nationally hlork<ed a punt against by Chicago Sun-Times and Stanl'ord to set up a Notre 
59th best by The Sporting

Damo touchdown. 
News.

Name thP player who rushed 
for a five-yard lo11chdown notables: blocked a key punt against West Virginia. against Stanford, has Name the player who pro­
scored rushing and receiv­

vidPd thn key block on 
ing touchdowns this year,

Terrance Howard's 80-yard 
threw Notre Dame's longest

touchdown run against West Virginia. pass ofseason against Name the player who trails West Virginia, leads Irish only Julius Jones in kick 
receivers with 3 r. 6 yards

rnturns. 
per game.

The answer to all of the above is David Givens, a junior who makes himself at home at 
potential," receivers coachalmost any position on the 

Urban Meyer said. "I think helicld. 

pushed too hard, and he was

"I don't have a favorite posi­
concerned about other things

tion. Basically, I'm out there to instead of just being a receiver,try to help our team win, and 
because he really wasn't a

anything that will contribute to wide receiver." 
us winning, I'm comfortable 
This season, Givens has pol­

with," Givens said. ~whether ished his play, which now
it's blorking, running, catching gleams brighter than the goldor throwing. that's my role." 
on the Irish helmets. 

Givens learned to run the "His numbers should be
gamut of posts as a prep player greatP-r than what they are. but
in Toxas, where high school we went through a part of the
football highlights relegate all 
year where we weren't verv

else to second-tier importance. 
effective on offense," Meyer"We were the Humble 

said. "He's starting to get some

Wildcats, and we had paw 
of the statistics that he shouldprints going all the way down have. We're at the point where

the streets with the coaches' he's a legit playmaker for us.
names on them," Givens said. 
He's going to be an NFL

"Football is a really big thing in prospect as a receiver."
Texas. Just like Notre Dame Notre Dame's aerial attack
football's big-time here, at my 
was limited by its quarterbackhigh school and a lot of high quandary for much of the sea­

schools down there, football is son, so Givens has caught justa huge thing." 
16 passes, averaging 13.8

At Humble High School near yards per reception. With Matt people don't even see," Meyer have a lot of talent on defense was my goal," Givens said. "IfHouston, Givens played eight LoVecchio on his way to said. "He's a phenomenal play­at the skill positions, a lot of God blesses me, if it's God'spositions -even more than he becoming a veteran signal­er on special teams. He's in the talent. I don't know if it's possi­will, I think it will be done."
sees action at for the Irish. 
caller, Givens hopes to get top five on the team in special ble [to play two ways], but I Since age 6, Givens has
During his senior season, he 
additional looks at the pigskin. teams points awarded. "J-le's would love to do it." remained focused on his day­
contributed to his team as a 
"With the quarterback situa­our best blocker downfield," Davie's not so sure a switch dream of becoming a profes­receiver, running back, quar­tion kind of solid now, I think Meyer continued. "He's made to defense is in the works for sional football star. It's a fanta­
terback, linebacker, corner­
there are going to be more plays coming out of the back­Givens. sy that seemed to come intoback, safety, punt/kick returner balls coming to the receiver," field, and he's our leading "If we stay healthy, we prob­closer grasp after Givens' highand punter. 
Givens said. "Being versatile receiver. In my mind, he's one ably won't need to do that, but school teammate, DavidHis ability to adapt to numer­does help get the ball in my of the top players on this foot­I'm not making any strong Boston, was selected in the firstous spots grabbed the interest hands more." ball team." statements that we definitely round of the NFL draft out ofof Notre Dame coaches. 
Despite leading the Irish in Givens is a brawny player won't," Davie said. "I was here Ohio State. 
"David can do a lot of things. 
receiving, Givens has had as whose size helps him morph last year, and we had all avail­The two athletes grew upThat's why he's so productive much success, if not more, in between positions. The Notre able candidates out here by the playing Little League footballfor us," head coach Bob Davie other facets of his game. Dame media guide lists him at end of the season." and running summer track side
said. "I think he's a wide 
Without Givens' blocked punt 6-foot-3, whir:h Givms claims is As long as the Irish sec­by side. Boston, also a receiver,receiver, but he docs have the against Stanford, Notre Dame an exaggeration of his actual 6-ondary and tailback corps graduated from Humble Highskills of a running hack. He'd would have been minus a foot-1 frame. llegardless, his remain off the disabled list, School when Givens was just alike to tell you he has the skills touchdown ai'id lost the game muscular 215-pound physique Givens' best options for play­sophomore. By Boston's junior
of a quarterback, but I'm not 
14-13. If Givens hadn't put up a is an asset. making remain as a wide year at Ohio State, he hadsure it's quite that way." 
strong front for Howard on his "1 think my size does help a receiver. If that will keep the impressed scouts enough to
Despite being an honorable 
ramble against West Virginia, lot to play the different posi­Irish winning and Givens leave college early as the
mention All-America pick in 
rushed for a touchdown of his tions," Givens said. improving, playing receiver is eighth pick in the draft.
high school, it took Givens a own and set up another scoring He no longer takes the field fine with him. He just wants to "Him going to the NFL as acouple years to become fully play with his downfield pass to at linebacker like in high make kindergarten dreams junior was kind of an incentive
entrenched in Notre Dame's 
Getherall, the Irish might not school, but still thinks he could come true. that pushed me to work hardersystem. 
have halted their two-year-long be a two-way player. "It is my goal to play in the because I thought our abilities
"The first two years, he 
losing streak on the road. "Maybe next year I'll talk to NFL. I've been playing tackle were pretty close," Givens said. 
didn't play 

"David Givens, what lie con­the coaches and ask them if it's football since I was six years "If he can do it, I think I can do 
up to 

tributes to the team a lot of possible," Givens said. "We old, and ever since then, that it too." 



birthdate: August 16, 1980 favorite food: Italian word to describe him off the hometown: Humble, Texas favorite sports team: field:funny
up close & 

major: design Tennessee Titans best part about playing for Notre dimensions: 6-foot-3. 2 r 7 lbs. greatest personal athletic Dame: tough schedule dorm: O'Neill Hall moment: winning the Junior one thing he misses about home:
personal 

favorite TV show: Sports Olympics in track at age 12 his family Center word to describe him on the when he was growing up he WITH DAVID GIVENS favorite movie: Gladiator field: exciting thought he would be : an actor 
....---·---------------------:-----------:-:-----,------:--:----------------------­
Friday, October 27, 2000

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER
---__-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-:===-==========~==================-=--=--==================-=--========-==-=--= 
-----. -----. 
Fighting Irish schedule 
Sep. 2 Sep.9 
Sep,. 
Oct. 21 Oct.28 
Nov. 11 


TEXASA&M 
N 
UE a~State 
S ---RO
• 
~t~~t-'1t~inia 
AIR FORCE 
BOSTON COLLEGE 
Nov. 18 at Rutgers lNov. 25 at USC 
w 
L 
w 
L 
w 
w 
w 


fourth season at Notre Oame 
career record: 
26-I8 
at Notre Dame: 
26-18 
Davie against Air Force: head coach ()•0 
Roster 
'In.  N•m•  Pos,  Ht.  
I  llrtK'k Williams  CB  5-10  
2  Carlt"tS Pit1rr<.•-Antnine ILB  6-3  
2  Dan Novakov  QB  6-1  
3  Arna, llattl,·  QB  b-1  
4  Ju•tin Smith  FS  5-11  
5  R~1n t..ral•l  ss  6-0  
6  Dtivid Given~  FL  6-3  
7  Carly!,• I luliday  QB  6-2  
B  Loren:1.0 Crc1wford  WR  5-11  
y  Jared Clark  QB  6-4  
10  Matt 1.ov~cchin  QB  6-3  
10  Hy.1n KruL'ger  QB  5-9  
I  Jay Johnson  SE  5-11  
2  Tony Hsht!r  TB  6-2  
3  Nkk Sl"ttd  K/1'  6-0  
3  jrn.• Rl•ccndt.'7.  QB/TE  6-0  
GaryCudsey  QB  l>-7  
5  Cliffurd Jeffrrson  CB  5-9  
b  Abram El,,m  Q!l/llll l>-1  
7  joey I lildbold  I'  5-Hl  
8  J-ot•y Cl•thl!rnll  FL  5-7  
9  CIL•nn f:.ctrl  5S  l>-2  
::o  l~l'rt)ffil' Sapp  F5  l>-0  
:"I  Jovin I ltrnter  SE  l>-0  
;,2  Julius Jones  TB  5-10  
::3:.,  Chris Yur,1 Chad DeBoll  FB Cll  5-ll 5-lO  
::5 :h  Tony Driver Carron Hihlt.•  FS RB  6-2 5-10  
:7  Jason 8('Ck.c.trom  CB  5-!0  
:B ;9  Donald Dy"'-" Justin Smith  ss FS  5-11 5-11  
;<J  Brian ( l!t•nk:zak  FL  5-11  
:o :1  Rocky Boimdn Dwaynl' Francis  01.B CB  6-4 6-0  
:2  TcrrancP f-fowdrd  TB  6-1  
:13  Courtnl'Y Watson  11.B  6-1  
;,4  Vontez Duff  RB  6-1  
34  Jascinl Vukelich  Ffl  5-10  
35  Di-wid Miller  K  5-11  
35  TimO'Ndll  T1l  5-5  
36  Tom Lopicnski  FB  6-1  
38  l)n'.ston Jack.<;{m  DB  5-10  
38  Eric Nel'i(.m  LB  6-0  
3~  Anthony Denman  !LB  6-2  
4J  Jason Murray  FB  6-1  
41  Mikt• Guulsby  1.ll  6-4  
42  Shclnt> W,i-lton  CB  5-11  
4 l  Anthony Br,1nn.an  !LB  5-IO  
4l  Grant Irons  DE  6-5  
4i  Matt Sarb  ss  5-11  
.J.,  jeremy juan•z  Fil  5-1 l  
41  Mik,• McNair  FB  6-0  
.J.,  Kyl,• llud insca k  DI.  6-5  
4•)  IJen•k Curry  Lil  6-4  
:,)  Ct-drk 11 illiard  OT  6-2  
51  Tyrt.'o 11.urison  !LB  6-2  
5!  Jdll'ain,•  C  6-3  
S:!  Mark Mitchell  lJLB  5-!0  
5:1  Jason ll;1lvorson  1B  6-2  
5-1  Luigj Rao  !LB  5-10  
51;  Jim Jon,~  0G  6-2  
51)  Pat Ryan  l!B  6-3  
5'.r  Justin T1mmas  01.B  6-l  
511  Joseph Mueller  I.B  5-ll  
.!i')  Briiln Dil•rckmdn  11.B  6-I  
t,ll  llarrell Campbell  DE  6-4  
t,i  Mikt• Zelenka  Fil  6-0  
6'!  Casey Rnbin  OT  6-7  
6.l  lirl'nnan Curtin  m  6-l!  
M  lohn Crowther  C  6-2  
6!i  Sc••n Millii,:an  0G  l>-4  
"''  IW J,>rdan  C  6-l  
6'.'  Ryan Gillis  OG  6-3  
NI  Mikl•l;,,ndy  0G  6-4  
70  Jim Molinaro  DE  6-6  
7'.!  Ryan Scarola  ,x:;  6-5  
7'.I  !\dam Tibbit•  I(  5-11  
7!i  Kurt Vnllers  OT  6-7  
7r,  John Tt•.i.'ldak  OT  6-5  
7,'  Gr1Jg P,rnly  DI.  6-t,  
71:  Jordan !llack  OT  6-6  
7'1  Senn M,1hiln  OT  6-3  
8[1  Om.tr jcnkim;  WR  6-2  
81  J1,.•n)m..-Cotlin~  WR  6-4  
H:  Ronni,• Rod,1mcr  WR  6-4  
H:  Bernard Akatu  SE  5-10  
lie  Jm,hGL·ntill'  K/r  5-tl  
11.j  Jnhn Owt•ns  DE  6-3  
R:  Jt'fln•y Campbdl  TE/DE  t,,1  
Kt,  Dnn O'l.1._11uy  TE  6-3  
K,  J,1b,m I lolloway  TE  6-3  
KY  Ccra!J Morg,m  rn  l>-4  
lj(j  Lanc1.• Lt.•grt'l'  NG  6-1  
91  1\ndr,•w llempSl'Y  DI'  l>-2  
92  Mall M,·N,•w  K  t.-3  
93  ll.J.S..~,tt  OT  l>-3  
94  Andy WisnL'  DT  6-3  
95  Ryan Roberts  DI'  6-2  
\lb 911  Billy l'almer Antnony Wcawr  TE DT  6-3 6-3  
'/fl  rasonSapp  LB  6-3  

WI. 
190 242. 220 218 197 208 217 190 175 
220 
200 178 195 225 175 222 240 180 190 190 175 215 210 
1Mb 
201 211 193 220 185 llJO 195 193 195 240 195 195 220 175 229 191 170 245 172 
225 
235 259 
225 
183 215 275 Wl 251 240 250 225 290 242 292 220 
230 
215 310 235 245 195 255 285 
225 
:ms 
315 240 295 
275 
292 315 265 301 201 310 
305 
275 
310 
ZHR 
180 200 185 180 199 265 200 260 260 261 2115 265 200 290 272 251 2S0 276 
2.10 
YR 
SR 
JR 
so 
JR SR SR JR Fl< FR 
FR FR 
JR FR JR 
so 
SR 
so 
JR FR 
so 
SR 
so FR JR 
so so so 
SR FR 
so 
JR 
SR 
SR JR JR JR 
so 
FR SR JR JR JR FR JR SR SR FR JR SR SR JR SR JR FR FR 
so 
fR 
so 
SR 
so 
SR SR 
so 
so 
SR 
SR 
so. 
SR 
SR 
so 
JR 
so 
SR 
so 
SR 
so 
JR JR SR 
SR 
Hi JR JR 
FR FR r-R 
JR so 
JR JR SR SR JR SR SR 
SR 
SR 
SR 
JR FR JR l'R 

IN POSITION: defensive ends 

LIZ LANG/The Observer Junior defensive end Anthony Weaver pressures Mountaineer quarterback Scott McBrlen Oct. 21 In Notre Dame's 45-14 win over West Virginia. 
Irish hone defensive skills 
Observer Staff Report 

Juninr Anthony Weaver. the team's third-leading tackler, gets to the ball from all over the field. As the left defen­sive end, he has four sacks, an intercep­tion and a fumble recovered. His coun­terpart on the right side, Hyan Roberts, has emerged this season for the Irish to record four sacks and four tackles for losses. 
NOTRE DAME 
CffENSE 
ILANKIR U-Gt1111ral! 
li-Owfis 
AirForce 
AF
OFFENSE --_ ·--·_ : 
··• ·. 
.'·i;-' 
fUllllACK .. : . , 
«·B&CIIOI .. -. 
3Hunl 
1AILB4CK~-x··
30-McKay ' ·: 

«1-a!ovarM!-!ti _ __ ---_ . ,··__•____ 87-JmplRJGHT G_UARO .. . -_. 7H11rreau 
Weaver and Roberts bear responsibili­ty for cornering Air Force quarterback Mike Thiessen and keeping him from steamrolling the Irish. 
The play of' B.J. Scott and Lance Legree at left and right tackle will be key in keeping the Falcons' wishbone offense under wraps. The Irish easily held off another wishbone team in the Navy Midshipmen, but Navy was winless when it faced Notre Dame, while Air Force stands at 5-2, 
:t!i 
l F i / 
,/·/_~­
,r,, 
-~r'•/1··; 
I,_ , . 


"-' f 
j 
CORNERBACK 
42-Wallon 
15.Jilfferson 
Falcons schedule 

Sep. 2 CAL STATE w 
w

Sep.9.~NG 
Sep~.
5es;t•-,)at UiJLV _-. Qat.i NJ\~. . ._ Oct 14 ~~Ing 
C 
w 
L 
w 
w 
L 

Nov. 11 COLORADO STATE Nov. 18 SAN DIEGO STATE 

17th season at Air Force 
career record: 
131-71-1 
at Air Force: 
131-71-1 

DeBerry against Notre head coach Dame:3-8 
Roster 
Pos. Ht. Wt. YR WC 6-0 190 SR QU 5-11 190 so QB 6-0 195 SR SC 6-1 lY0 SR WR 6-5 220 JR WR 5-9 175 so FA!. 6-0 195 JR WR 6-0 195 SR HB 5-8 175 so p 5-11 180 JR l lB 5-10 180 JR 

No. 
1 2 
3 
4 
5 6 
7 
8 
9 

tO 
tO 
Name 
Tony Metters Bryan Blew Mikt• Thiessen Kurt Duffy Ryan Fleming Brian La Basco Adam Hanes Dustin Ireland Leotis Palml'r John Cortney Dan Stuart 
11 12 13 13 14 14 15 
1h 
17 18 19 
20 
21 22 23 24 25 26 28 29 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 
SH 
59 60 61 62 63 64 65 67 69 70 71 74 75 76 78 79 HO 81 82 84 87 
RB 
89 
91 
92 
93 % 
96 97 
98 99 Dallas Thompson Jon Lee Jeff Overstreet Tony L.oj,iccolo Erik Svendsen Jacob Lindaman Joe Brazier John Welsh Chad Rogers Keith lloyea Tre' Cage Wes Crawley Jol'i Buelow 
Ben Busscher Wes Glisson Tom Heier Qualario Brown Don Clark Mu:,;tafa Danquah MkhaL•l Fieberkl1rn Travis Logsdon Scotty McKay 
Brandon Brown 
Jimmy Bums William Sargent Natl? Beard Ryan Seekins Sam Mcinrod John !licks Andy Malin Berl Giovanetti Dustin Pratt Corey Nelson Jon Highley Scott Becker Mau Karas Jamie Arthur Josh Sauls Larry VanderOord Andy Rule Matt Mai Kevin Runyon Matt Pommer Andy Kerschbaum 
C.J. Zanotti Jon Eccles Michael Gallagher Ryan Finnan Marchello Graddy Matt McCraney Luke Porisch Matt Dayoc Brian Strock David Hildebrand Paul Cancino Joe Franciscovich Matt Joseph Randall Gibbs Matt Greene Ryan van Maarlh Terrance Barrcau Jonathan Pitts l<arl Berger Ben Miller Jos,,ph !'ugh Ricky Amezaga Andy Lueckenhoff Brooks Walters Ramon Edison Chris Jc-ssop Dan Probert Nate Osborne Eric Thompson Zach Johnson Dan Boyd Kyle Allen Adam TI1ornton Jordan Bounds Dave Adam. Justin Pendry 
PK !Ill FS WR FS WR QB l'/l'K WC QB O1.ll WC SC !'WK FS HB 
fill 
fill 
HB 
flB 
FS 
HB SC Fil Fil Fil ll.B FAI. NG 
TI, 
HB 
!LB 01.ll OLB 
Fil 
Fil 
11.B 11.B OLIJ 11.B ex: O1.B 11.B 11.B 11.B !LB OLB 11.B 11.8 OLB OT 
ex: 
OT 0G 
ex: 
OT 0G 0G OT OT OG OT OG OT DT WR TE 
!'I< 
WR TE OT OT OT OT OT DT 
l'K 
p PK DT 
6-0 5-10 6-0 6-0 6-2 5-0 6-1 6-3 5-10 5-10 6-0 6-ll 6-1 5-10 6-0 5-9 5-10 6-0 5-11 6-2 6-3 
5-8 
6-0 5-11 6-0 5-10 6-0 6-1 6-2 6-3 5-9 5-9 6-4 l>-0 5-10 6-0 5-10 6-1 6-2 6-2 6-3 6-4 5-11 6-3 6-1 6-2 6-1 6-2 6-2 6-2 6-5 6-3 6-3 6-3 6-1 6-2 6-5 6-1 6·2 6-4 6-3 5-10 6-2 6-4 6-3 5-11 6-2 6-0 6-3 6-5 6-4 6-5 6-2 6-3 6-5 6-2 
5-9 
6-0 5-11 6-6 205 180 170 180 205 180 190 WO 175 190 200 190 195 185 175 180 185 
zoo 
190 195 2'l0 175 170 210 205 220 245 200 265 235 190 205 240 220 
225 
190 220 
230 
220 230 270 
230 
215 215 2.'l0 235 225 2.'l0 220 220 275 265 265 290 260 255 280 260 265 260 300 240 265 270 265 180 200 185 190 250 27.0 255 245 265 275 270 190 180 185 285 
SR JR FR 
so 
JR 
so so so 
FR JR 
so 
so 
so 
SU SR JR SR 
so 
JR 
so 
SR SR 
so 
JR 
so 
SR JR JR 
so 
SR SR 
so 
SR 
so 
SR 
so 
JR 
so 
so 
JR JR JR SR 
so 
SR JR SR SR FR JR SR SR JR SR JR JR JR 
so so 
JR 
JR 
so 
so 
JR JR 
so 
so 
JR 
so 
SR JR JR so 
JR 
so 
SR 
SR 
SR JR 

Friday, October 27, 2000 The Observer . EYE ON THE ENEMY page 5 
Falcons prepare to fly past Irish in repeat performance 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Editor 
Irish head r.oacb Bob Davie knows the potential threat Air Force poses. 
The then-defensive coordinator and the Irish learned that lesson first hand the last time the Falcons flew into Notre Dame Stadium in 1996. 
Clinching the one of the biggest upsets in Air Force's history, the unranked Palr.ons notched a 20-· 1 7 overtime victory over the No. 9 Irish. 
"We all rPmernber the last time Air Force came to Notre Dame Stadium," Davie said. "We all rrmember thf1 overtime game, kicking the field goal to beat us." 
Those memories will not be lost on the ralcons either as they pre­pare to soar to equal heights and knock off this year's No. 19 Irish in a repeat performance. 
"This is a great opportunity for us," Falcon head coach Fisher DeBcrry said in a press confer­ence earlif1r this week. "We've played well there before and we've won there before." 
Coming into Saturday's contest, the cards are stacked against the Falcons. The only ranked team on the Falcons' schedule, the Irish have countered a solid defrnsive corps with •~ recently­explosive and more diversified offensive attack to reach a 5-2 record with one of the toughest schedules in college football. 
Also boasting a 5-2 record, the Falcons have notched crushing defoats, scoring morG than 50 points in two games this season against Cal State -Northridge and Wyoming, but have also suf­fered losses to less than stellar teams in UNLV and New Mexico. 
The raleons' relatively easy schedule will not leave the Irish resting easy -they know the tal­ent Air Force will bring to the field. 
"When you look at Air Force there is no doubt they arc a tal­ented football team,'' Oavo said. "As always, they have the com­plicated foffensive] scheme they bring ... This is obviously a big football game -particul.arly for the defense." 
The Irish defense will have to be on top of its game to squrlch the Falcons' rushing game. 
With the fifth-best rushing game in the country, Air Force is a threat on the ground. Averaging 277.4 yards a game, the flalcons have looked to half­back Scotty McKay all season to carry the ball. 
The falcons also possess a potentially potent aerial attack. 
QuartPrback Mike Thiessen has completed 61-112 passes and thrown for nine touchdowns. The senior has thrown for more than 1.000 yards this season and is on track to break into the top spot in the Air Force record books. 
"Their quarterback has a little different style than they have had in 1he past," Dade said. "He cer­tainly can run, but he is also a really good passer. HP is vr,ry accurate." 
Thiessen finds his favorite tar­get in wide receiver Hyan fleming. 
With 27 recPptions for 548 yards, the junior is second in the Mountain West Conference in receiving. 
A strong performance on the other side of the ball will be key for the Falcons to stop the Irish. They have given up an average of 
21.9 points in seven games -the most in recent years. 
Despite the added pressure of playing in a tough arena, DeBerry is looking forward for the potential this game holds for his Falcons to soar. 
"Notre Dame Stadium is a saued plac~:. Some of the best players in the history of the game have played there. This is our players' chance to do that," he said. 

. 
location: Colorado Springs, Colo. . Air Force won the last meeting between 

. 
Enrollment: 4,100 the two teams 20-17 in 1996, the first over­


fast facts 
. Colors: Blue and silver time game played in Notre Dame Stadium. 
ALLSPORT
ABOUT 

. Nickname: Falcons . The Irish have not lost to a service acad­
Senior quarterback Mike Thiessen carries the ball in 
. Conference: Mountain West emy since their '96 loss to the Falcons.
AIR FORCE the Falcons' 31-23 win Sept. 9 against BYU. 

PI.Z.U .'7..9.:9..

Cheese & I Topping Md'ttOJ.IPlna•o.1, 11.so 
.No Coupon Necusary. Plus DeHvery & Tax Where AppUcable:. Not VaUd With .Any Olber Oller. limited Time tffler. 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 6 A LOOK AT nus WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBAtL ACTION Friday, October 27, 2000 
AP poll 
team  record  points  
1  Nebraska  7-0  1,747  
2  Virginia Tech  7-0  1,605  
3  Oklahoma  6·0  1,599  
4  Miami (Fla.)  5·1  1,532  
5  Clemson  8-0  1,495  
6  Florida Stale  7-1  1,420  
7  Oregon  6·1  1,309  
8  Florida  6-1  1,247  
9  Washington  6-1  1,141  
10  Kansas State  7-1  1,072  
11  TCU  6-0  1,014  
12  Ohio State  6-1  881  
13  Georgia  6·1  872  
14  So. Mississippi  5-1  853  
15  Michigan  6·2  762  
16  Purdue  6·2  688  
17  South Carolina  7-1  671  
18  Oregon State  6-1  668  
19  NOTRE DAME  5-2  555  
20  Mississippi Slate  4-2  365  
21  N.C. Stale  5-1  289  
22  Texas  5·2  206  
23  Northwestern  5-2  204  
24  Arizona  5-2  201  
25  Auburn  6-2  129  

ESPN/USA Today poll 
team record points 1 Nebraska 7-0 1,474 2 Virginia Tech 7-0 1,394 3 Oklahoma 6·0 1,307 4 Clemson 8-0 1,306 5 Miami (Fla.) 5-1 1,255 6 Florida Slate 7-1 1,181 7 Florida 6-1 1,101 8 Kansas State 7-1 973 9 Washington 6-1 950 10 Oregon 6-1 936 11 TCU 6-0 881 12 Georgia 6-1 809 13 Ohio State 6-1 799 
14 So. Mississippi 5-1 709 15 Michigan 6-2 678 16 Purdue 6·2 541 17 Oregon State 6-1 526 18 South Carolina 7-1 491 19 NOTRE DAME 5-2 333 20 Texas 5-2 302 21 Mississippi State 4-2 300 22 N.C. State 5-1 215 23 Arizona 5-2 140 24 Colorado Stale 6-1 129 25 Auburn 6-2 124 
Observer experts NOTRE DAME OKLAHOMA 
PURDUE 
FLORIDA 
Season Record 
18-9 
NOTRE DAME NEBRASKA 
PUI-lDUE 
FLORIDA 
Season Record 
17-10 
Nonrn DAME NEBRASKA 
PURDUE 
FLORIDA 
Season Record 
14-13 




GAME OF THE WEEK 

By PEYTON BERG 
Sports Writer 
When the Sooners and the Huskers last clashed in 1997, Nebraska gave Oklahoma its worst beat­ing in school history, a 54­7 pasting en route to its third national title in four years. 
Many felt that this game permanently ended the once glorious rivalry that annually determined the Big Eight Championship and a trip to the Orange Bowl. Once the final game of the season for both teams, the newly formed Big XII turned Colorado into Nebraska's big rival. 
The tables have officially turned. The first edition of the BCS rankings was released last Monday, with Nebraska and Oklahoma ranked one and two, respectively. The Sooners have all but sewn up the Big XII South division, meaning that there may be a rematch of Saturday's contest in the Big XII Championship game in December. 
Oklahoma has had a week off to prepare, and is coming off a huge win at then-undefeated Kansas State. Confidence and momentum are at levels not seen since the days of Barry Switzer and Brian Bosworth. These feelings are justified: quarterback Josh Heupel's completion rate is near 70 percent, and the Sooner offense 
OTHER TOP GAMES 
Ohio State at Purdue: For sale: one 2000 Rose Bowl berth. Drew Brees and Purdue defeated Wisconsin to enter this week tied with Michigan for first place in the Big Ten. The Boilermakers already disposed of the Wolverines and the Wildcats, securing a tiebreaker advan­tage. They remain a half game ahead of the Ohio State Buckeyes. so this game means the difference between an outright conference championship and a dogfight in late November. 
Buckeyes quarterback Steve Bellisari has not shaken his penchant for inconsis­tency in big games. and still plays as if the ghost of LaVar Arrington haunts him. Cornerbar.k Nate CJement.:; anchors a typi­cally athletic and talented Ohio State sec­ondary. Last week, Drew Brnes broke Chuck Long's Big Ten career passing record. I lowever, the Ohio State defense leads the conference in total defense, sacks and scoring. 
has been able to scorn vir­tually at will. Nebraska enters the game with everything to lose. After Florida State lost to in­state rival Miami, the Huskers found themselves on top of every poll. Virginia Tech remains unbeaten, but must travel to Miami next month. The Huskers must stay unde­feated in order to avoid a BCS logjam of teams with one loss. 
Both teams sport potent offenses, but with vastly different styles. Nebraska's power running attack, led by Tim Crouch and Dan Alexander, put up 38 points against Baylor -in tlrn first quar­ter. Oklahoma atlacks from the air with equally 
Florida vs. Georgia: Ifs time again for the World's Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party, live from Jacksonville's Alltel Stadium. Georgia finally beat nemesis Tennessee earlier this year, but has one nemesis remaining in Florida. Because of the startling emergence of the South Carolina Gamecocks, this game has SEC East Championship implications. 
Gators quarterback Rex Grossman has thrown eight interceptions this season but zero in his last two games. Given coach Steve Spurrier's intolerance for inept quarterbacking, Grossman should be good for at least the first quarter. 
Georgia's quarterback position remains uncertain. Quincy Carter sat out of Saturday's victory against Kentucky to nurse a shoulder injury. In his absence, sophomore Cory Phillips stepped in and threw for 400 yards and four touchdowns. 
Expect big plays and fierce competition from two storied Southern rivaL'i. 
devastating rnsults. Coach Bob Stoops brought with him an impressive, wide open offensive set from Florida and now has the talent to employ it effec­tively. 
As is true in all big games, defense will deter­mine the outcome. 
Oklahoma's defense has been overshadowed because of the offense's success, but Rocky Calmus and Co. can stop good teams. The Huskers suf­fered defensive growing pains early, but have since played up to a higher stan­d a rd. While the 2000 Black Shirts will not remind anyone of the 1997 unit, Nebraska still remains a juggernaut on both sides of the ball. 
around the dial 
Nebraska at Oklahoma 
11 a.m., ABC channel 58 
Northwestern at Minnesota 
11 a.m., ESPN2 
Ohio Stale at Purdue 
2:30 p.m., ABC channel 58 
Florida State at N.C. State 
6p.m.. ESPN 
Washington St. at Oregon St. 
6:15 p.m., FOX 

Friday, October 27, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page? 
the inside edge AF 
• 
records: 5-2 
A.P. rank: No. 19 coach's poll: No. 19 
records: 5-2 
A.P. rank: NR

AF EVEN
coach's poll: NR 
Series Record 
Notre Dame leads Air Force 19-5 
• 
quarterbacks: LoVecchio has made few mis­takes and is 3-0 as a starter. Thiessen ·s 1,007 yards passing and experience add an important dimension to the wish/Jone. 
running backs: Jones, Fisher and Howard provide a steady run­ning game. But Air Force's system always gains a lot ofyards. 
receivers: Givens is a "big-play" receiuer while Getherall is con­sistent. Fleming is the best receiver in recent school history. 
offensive line: The Notre Dame line has made 

AF 
several mental mis­takes this fall. Air 
Force relies heavily on the line's run blocking. 
defensive line: An important factor for the Irish. IfWeaver and Roberts can contain Thiessen, Notre Dame will be successful. 
linebackers: Denman is one of the nation's best while Boiman and 

• 
Harrison complete a talented group. Zannoti and Pommer lead the Falcons in tackles. 
secondary: The Irish ·s 
man to man coverage 
has helped the front 
seven be more aggres­
sive. Air Force has 
allowed 205.7 passing 
yards per game. 

special teams: Notre Dame's unit ranks among the nation's best. Air Force has blocked three punts. 
coaching: DeBerry's teams are always• prepared when playing in South Bend. Davie and company have disproved all the preseason predictions. 
intangibles: No fumbles in se1Jen games has
• 
/Jeen the key to the Irish offense. Special team.<; play and a dis­ciplined offense com­bine to give the Irish the advantage. 

.., 
Overall Notre Dame's still in the BCS hunt and know even one loss could dash all hopes ofa January howl game. Although the option could cause concern, the Trish still ha1Je superior talent at nearly every position. Don't expect a repeat ofthe last meeting between the two teams. 

IRISH INSIGHT 
Irish prepare to face a true option opponent in Falcons 
South Bend shut-ins, grand­the main reason was because mothers from Granger and Godsey "can't run the option" infants in Indianapolis all is absurd. know the "real" reason why This weekend, a true option Matt team arrives in South Bend. LoVecchio Air Force, like Navy and Army, replaced relies on a wishbone attack Gary that causes headaches for Godsey. head coaches. And why "This is the biggest game of the Irish the year for us," Davie said on offense is Monday. "Every ounce ofjuice suddenly we have, every ounce of ener­more gy we have, every ounce of potent and focus we have, we are putting less pre­into this game." dictable If The Observer fielded a than team, Davie would still be against scared and using "good" and Purdue and "a big challenge" when Michigan describing the South Dining State. Hall-based group. 
Lovecchio can run the But he has a point. option. To most fans, running the 
It has been written here and option means the quarterback in other newspapers, has been takes the snap and runs left or talked about on sports radio right with a back trailing the and has been heard and shown play. If the defensive player in countless sound bites and rushes the quarterback, he video clips on local television pitches to the running back. If stations. the running back is covered 
Lesson 101: Don't believe and the quarterback sees an everything you view or read. opening, he keeps the ball. 
And while pondering that Simple concept? deep, introspective, original Hardly. thought, follow one more "The tremendous thing about order. the wishbone is the subtle 
Delete the last two words of intricacies from week to week the third sentence in this col­of how thev block schemes, umn. how they attack schemes, how 
In the West Virginia game, they do different things within according to coach Bob Davie, the framework of that the Irish ran 60 offensive offense," Davie said. "You'll plays. Three times they ran the watch them one week and they option. may be in the same formation 
Calling the Irish an option every snap because that's team is like referring to Notre what the defense dictated. But Dame as a liberal University. they may not even be in that 
Yet there remains a percep­formation the next week. tion amongst Irish fans that "Within what they do, it may Kevin Rogers and Davie have look simplistic. But to me, it's implemented a Nebraska-type probably the most complex offense. thing there is. And it is the 
According to Davie, however, biggest chess game there is he wants the option to com­and the biggest challenge as a prise just 10-15 percent of his coach." teams' offensive plays per The Falcons (5-2 on the sea­game. son) rank fifth in the countrv seven opponents have a cumu­"l know they're going to line man Garron Bible (another slot 
The fascination with the averaging 277.4 yards rushing lative record of 16-36. up and run option," Davie said. back) in providing the defense word "option" probably began per game and besides a potent But Davie's experience with "But I'm not sure how they're with some progame prepara­when Tony Rice and Lou Holtz running game, their passing the wishbone causes him to going to line up and run tion. .. reinvigorated thP-program statistics are uncommonly overemphasize this year's Jjr option." How unique is this offense? after the Gerry Faust Error. good. Force itrnm. In 1996, when The Irish have simulated the "We don't normally see it at 
But this year's Irish offense Senior Mike Thiessen (who Davie was defensive coordina­two slots and one fullback for­all in practice," defensive coor­bears a closer resemblance to has thrown for 1,007 yards tor, No. 8 Notre Dame lost at mation (which Davie said Air dinator Greg Mattison said. a Ron Powlus-led team than and completed nearly 55 per­home to Air Force 20-17 in Force runs "95-98 percent" of Kind of like how Irish fans the mce and Kevin McDougal cent of his passes) and 6-foot-5 overtime. the time) in practice. rarely watch it in games. squads. receiver Ryan Fleming (27 Air Force quarterback Beau Freshman Carlyle Holiday 
That's not to say LoVecchio's catches for 548 yards) add a Morgan gained 183 yards on serves as the scout-team quar­The opinions expressed in 
mobility and elusiveness did dimension to an offense aver­23 carries as the Falcons' terback while walk-ons Jeromy this column are those of the not contribute to him overtak­aging 31.9 points per game. amassed 304 rushing yards on Juarez (fullback) and Tim author not necessarily those of ing Godsey. But to argue that Granted, Air Force's first the afternoon. O'Neill (slot back) join fresh-The Observer. 



----------------,.---------~---­
Notre Dame vs. Air Force The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Friday, October 27, 2000 



'I I I 
I
' ­
I I 
' 
' 
' 
i 
' 
I 
'I ­
I 
' 
' 
Late Night Special 
1 Large 1 topping 
$6~99 

Dominator Special 
II 
1 16" One topping pizza 

Get a 5' x 8' ND flag today! 
Great for students. 20% discount on S'x 8' ND flag and 10°/4 discount on all other items for ND students, faculty and staffwith ND photo I.D. 

The Castle ofFlags © 
GO IRISH/!!! 
FLAGS INTERNATIONAL® 
10845 McKinley Highway Osceola, Indiana 46561 Teltphone: 219-674-5125 Visit us on the web at 
www.flagsl.net 
Widest selection of Notre Dame flags and banners in the country. Over 70 varieties of U.S. flags, states and U.S. territories; international flags from around the world. 
Jim Bolinger, '84 -Proprietor 
2 Large 1-Topping 
11 m 











