Dress for success 
The shirt dispute
... 
.I\ profile oflocal dress-wear merchants and 
The Observer supports BOG's decision to stop 


Friday
tips for dressing for interviews are 
the sale of the controversial T-shirt 
J --• 
featured in weekend Scene. 
in the editorial. 
SEPTEMBER29,
Scene . page 13 
Viewpoint . page 12 
2000 
-I 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 29 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


ResLife threats cancel Big House Olympic games 
"[Kirk] said several con­
By MARIBEL MOREY 
cerned students had 
News Writer 
brought [the party] to his attention, because thev 
After a month of planning the saw that there was dan·­Budweiser Big House Olympics, ger in it," said Jochum. Brian Jochum had already Kirk called Jochum ordered the kegs, the pizzas, and Thursday and advised some T-shirl'i when he gol a call him to cancel the party. If from Student Affairs Thursday. he didn't follow, there from Budweiser at !ems with Budweiser's involve­one of these parties ment in parties; even though he. Jochum asked if too, has sought their help. she would be inter­"I think it's a big deal if ested in helping, Budweiser is involved with stu­and she agreed. dents and underage drinking," "Larger parties said Jochum. "But the parties will have had a Miller go on with Bud or without, so or Budweiser ban­they just try to capitalize on it." ner," said Jochum. But Jochum stresses that 
The party tonight is over. would be consequences in line United Beverage Company, the Budweiser was not sponsoring,
on the way. but Jochum called
There would have been beer with duLac. local Anheiser-Busch distributor, but rather, "just giving us a ban­
Thursday and reversed the
bongs, keg races and cups in 
"It wasn't a confrontational had promoted parties in the area ner."
orders. "I sent an e-mail out
these olympics. Teams represent­meeting," said Jochum. "Once and in this case, printed a banner "If they didn't use my product,
[Thursday) and said it was done.
ing each study abroad destination they found out about it, they had for Jochum. they'd be using my competitors,"
I'm giving everyone their money
would have for"med their own an obligation [to end the party] so However, Jeff Dee, vice-presi­said Dee. "[ButJ we're not selling
back," he said. 
groups of 15 to 20 students and 
people wouldn't get sick." dent of marketing at United the kids the beer. We are a dis­
"I wanted to get kids abroad
would have competed with kegs "Big drinking parties cause big Beverage Company, said, "I don't tributor, so we sell to the liquor
together in a social setting," said 
for a gold-painted keg trophy. 
problems," said Kirk. 'Tm con­know anything about the Big stores. Beyond that, it's out of my
Jochum.

Jochum, the main party plan­cerned with student abuse of House Olympics." control."
Jermaine Brown, a senior 
ner and a senior arts and letters 
alcohol immoderately." Although, he declined knowl­Student Affairs seems, howev­
accounting major living off-cam­
major, had e-mailed every stu­
Now, Jochum sees why the edge of this party, he later er, to take control when it comes
pus agreed. 'The point was to get
dent who studied abroad last 
olympics was canceled. "[Kirk] affirmed printing the banner. to excessive drinking. 
all the different countries to 
year. in hopes of getting support 
probably had the attitude taken "We're not actually sponsoring "I hope that those companies
come, drink and be merry," he
for this party. Some of those who about that it was a competitive the event; the students put our would take their responsibility on
said.

received the e-mail were less 
drinking game .... It was going to name on it," said Amy, a proper use of their product [and] 
Budweiser would have support­
than enthusiastic and informed 
be a small party and I don't think Budweiser representative who I hope that Budweiser would be
ed this party, as it has done for
Bill Kirk. vice president of 
this environment would have got­declined to give her last name. promoting both legally responsi­
others this year, said Jochum.
Residence Llfe, about the party. 
ten out of hand," he said Jochum foresees some prob-ble and moderate use," said Kirk. 
When he met a representative The preparations were already 

SMC junior class T-shirt incites debate, controversy 
. Students claim BOG decision was censorship in open forum 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Saint Mary's News Ediwr 
Claiming that the Board of Governance decision to prevent sale of the junior class T-shirt Wc!:S censorship, members of the Class of 2002 organized an open forum Thursday to voice their opini()ns on BOC's decision-making process. 
BOG voted Wednesday to absorb the cost of the T-shirt and prevent sales, believing that the message conveyed on the shirt was sexist and did not reflect the ideals of the institution. The T-shirt features an imitation of the painting "II Bacio." and depicts a little boy dressed in a Notre Dame shirt kissing a little girl with a Saint Mary's emblem on her chest. A girl dressed in a Notre Dame logo looks on. 
Members of the junior class board emphasized that the debate was no longer about the controversy of the shirt itself. but the manner by which it was handled by BOG. 
"We are here because we want to make sure that our whole junior class has a say and is able lo voice any of their comments," Mandy Schomas, junior class secretary, said. "U's not about the shirt any more." 
Many of the juniors felt that BOG had wrongly taken control of the T-shirts. 
"I think it's wrong to take other peo­ple's opportunities away," junior Mary Campione said. "There's lots of things Lhat I don't support al this school. I liked 
see JUNIORS/page 6 


. Rosenbush approved but admits she had concerns about T-shirt 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Despite approving the controver­sial junior class T-shirt, student activities directory Georgeanna Rosenbush claims she always had reservations about the design. 
"I was concerned about the impli­cation of the T-shirt, and the stereo­types it represented," Georgeanna Rosenbush said. "It is my opinion that in lieu of what is going on [the improvement of relations between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame]. the class has been made aware of the fact that the shirt can build on the stereotypes." 
According to Rosenbush, when the junior class first brought the T-shirt to her office for approval. she voiced her concerns about possible copy­right violations in the picture and the labels, as well as the implica­tions of the shirt and its message. 
The junior board. however, said Rosenbush still approved the shirt. 
"I know we did have the final go­ahead to print the shirt," Erin Weldon, junior board vice-president, said. "George left [the copyright and implications] up to us. To be fair to [BOG] everyone was a little leery of the T-shirt's message." 
In order for a class to print a T­shirt, it must fill out a merchandis­ing form to prevent more than one class from printing the same design 
see T-SHIRT/pagc 11 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Finding who I am in Spanish 
When I left for Spain this summer for my sec­ond study abroad experience in the country, I told myself I wasn't going to be the typical American tourist. I already knew the culture, the people and the language. I wanted to blend in. 
I was fooling myself. I can't 
pass myself oIT as Spanish 
any more easily than rcould 
play for the football team. 
One of my first days in 
Madrid, I was shopping in a 
corner clothing boutique. r 
overheard the sales clerk, 
who obviously assumed I 
didn't speak English, say to 
her co-worker, "It makes me 
nervous when she's touching 
the clothes." 
I left the store, hurt and 
disappointed that the worker 
had not only pegged me as a 
foreigner, but that she 
thought I would rob the store 

or damage the clothes just because I wasn't 
Spanish. 

I became even more determined to fit in. I 
avoided speaking in English, carrying a map or 
wearing blatantly American clothes like jean 
shorl'> and tennis shoes. I bought clothes at the 
oh-so-popular fashion chain Zara, read Spanish 
books and magazines on the Metro and walked 
with a purpose. 
Still no luck. 

On a hot June afternoon, as I walked rrom the bus stop in Toledo to visit some Spanish friends. two guys repeatedly stopped and tried to offer me a ride. They claimed to be worried I didn't know where I was going or had a long way to walk, but I knew it was just because rwas a foreigner. They weren't offering any Spaniards walking on the same street a lift. 
When I returned home to my Spanish family, I complained in frustration to my umom," Fatima. that I was tired of standing out, and didn't under­stand how everyone knew I wasn't Spanish. 
Fatima shook her head in amusement and told me, "You have blond hair [by Spanish standards]. blue eyes and fair skin. You could have one or two and still be Spanish but not all three." 
Mer joking that I was going to dye my hair black and get brown contact lenses, I gave in. Fine. If everyone knew I was an /\merican, I might as well take advantage. 
The Spaniards I met were more than happy to hang out with me, help me improve my Spanish and show me the hot places to go clubbing. After having met plenty of American travelers who didn't know Spanish and weren't interested in learning, they were thrilled that an American was interested enough in Spain to study there not once but twice. 
It was only after I stopped trying to pretend I was Spanish and realized how much I didn't know that I began having the time of my life. 
I found my niche with a few Spanish friends, and whether it was hitting the discotecas, study­ing for a class or sitting out by the swimming pool, I always had a great time with them. I final­ly picked up the "th" used for "c" in the Spanish accent, learned the slang and became a fan of futbol (soccer). 
I was accepted with open arms into lheir friendships. They even invited me to come back to Spain and share an apartment with them after graduation. 
If and when I do go back, I'll know better than to pretend to be something I'm not. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of lhe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Kate Nagengast Amanda Greco 
Maribel Morey Graphics Scon Brodfuehrer Kalie Annis Sports Production 
Karie McVoy Noah Amstadter 
Viewpoint Karie DeMent 
Pat Kelley Lab Tech 
Angela Campos 
The Obmvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday ,hrough Friday except during exom an<l vac.ilion f"'Tind,. The Ob,erver is a member of the 
Associated f•rtss. All rcprOOucrion rights arc rcscrv!'d,
....... ., .......... ,. ....................~.-.\, ...
.... _: ..................... ' ..... .
, 

Friday, September 29, 2000
page 2 The Db.server . INSIDE 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
University mandates drug tests for staffers Sept. 25, 1998 
The Office of Human Resources implemented a pre• employment drug testing procedure for prospective University staffers that started July 1. "We have an oblig­ation to make sure we are protecting the students from adverse exposure. It is our duty lo give students a positive and healthy environment,'~aid Roger Mullins, associate vice president for Human Resources. 
FBI finds abucted Notre Dame student Sept. 27, 1973 
Mishawaka Police and FBI agents were investigating the apparent abduction of Thomas Bernard, a Notre Uame graduate student from his Mishwaka home during a bur­glary there. His abductor forced him to buy two sets of plane tickets, one to Colorado Springs, Colo. and one to Phoenix, Ariz. Bernard was found at the base of a small mountain in northern Phoenix after escaping his abductor. 
UNIVERSITY OF TOLEDO 
Officials to expell indebted students 
TOLEDO 
University of Toledo officials told the Independent Collegian Wednesday they are laying down the law and putting an end to the purge question. Jack Armul, senior director of financial services, and Joe Brennan, executive director of public relations, said the final line of action for the 1,700 students who owe $200 or more for registered classes is going into effect. That final action: a purge. University bills sent this summer stated there was "no purge for fall" semester, meaning stu­dents with unpaid bills would not be dropped from classes. However, interim President Bill Decatur told the IC Saturday that "a time will come when students will have to be dropped." That time, it seems, is now. In a letter mailed Wednesday to the "at risk" students, the Bursar's Office tells them they have two options: to pay or face expulsion. Students must either pay their bal­ance in fuJI by Oct. 5 or start an installment plan in which they would pay 50 percent of their balance, also by Oct. 5. 
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON 
University to return Native artifacts 
SEATTLE 
Following a Department of Interior ruling this week, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers agreed to return the remains of 9,000 year-old Kennewick Man to Native Americans. The collection of more than 380 human bones, now in custody of the DOI, is being preserved in the Burke Museum of Natural and Cultural History at the University of Washington. "It is reasonable to determine that the Kennewick Man remains should be transferred lo the Tribes that have jointly claimed him -tribes that have inhabited, hunted, and fished this area around the confluence of the Columbia and Snake Hivers for millen­nia," said Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbit in a statement released Monday. His statement shifted the controversy over who has rights to the coveted remains out of the hands of scientists working for the government and into those of the court. The skeleton, referred to as "The Ancient One" by Native Americans but as Kennewick Man by scientists. is one of the oldest ever to be found in North America. 
Compifed from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Fairfield U. prof challenges political campaign 
FAIRFIELD, Conn. American people in the event that
"By running for both posi­
John Orman, a Fairfield University he/she is elected," Orman said. "By
tions, [Lieberman} cannot 
political science professor. has Jong running for both positions, he cannot taught his students to step forward guarantee his services to the guarantee his services to the people of and take action when they see some­Connecticut."
people ofConnecticut." 
thing wrong with democracy in the Orman does not feel Lieberman can United States. possibly run on two major ballots with 
Orman put his own political lessons John Orman any integrity in mind. Once a proud from the classroom to action recently political science professor supporter of Lieberman. Orman can­with an attempt to remove not understand how a man widely Democratic vice presidential nominee recognized as the "Conscience of' the 
from this year's ballot, so as to con­
Senator Joseph Lieberman [D-Conn.J Senate," can run a "frivolous" and 
centrate on the Gore/Lieberman nom­
from Connecticut's Senate race this "self-indulgent" Senate campaign. year. ination. This has not been the case. "Lieberman's actions arc unethical, Vice President Al Gore selected Lieberman's name remains on both unconstitutional and selfish," Orman Senator Lieberman to be his running ballots, much to the disgust of Orman, said. mate in the 2000 presidential cam­a resident of Trumbull and outspoken Orman supported Lieberman in the opponent of Lieberman's actions.
paign earlier this year. In accepting early '80s in his campaign for this offer, voters assumed that "When someone makes the decision Connecticut attorney general, and Lieberman would resign from his to run for a government position, he voted for him in the 1988 and 1994 Senate position and remove his name or she is promising to serve the Senate elections. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bmd Fomauit 
l'ali'ffitla" !are:ast for: d3ytirre =rli.tims arrlhi<;/:1 tB'rpeianm,S 
The AccuWeathere forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 29. 
H L 

Friday ~ 74 55 Saturday ~72 53 Sunday ~72 55 Monday ~73 54 
0 2000 AccuWffther, Inc. 
PrHIIJtf: 

® © D D D D D D 
...,., ,..
Hlllh S'1ow•r1 Rain T-atorms Flurrlea Snow Synny Pt. Cloudy Cloud)'
Tuesday ~75 53 
vi. Anocialsd p,.u 

Auanla 76 52 Las Vegas 94 65 Portland 56 33 Baltimore 54 40 Memphis 80 56 Sacramento 81 57 Boston 59 43 Milwaukee 75 57 $1. Louis 79 59
4,~-~Q,~Q ~ b ce:1 
Chicago 74 54 New YorK 60 48 Tampa 86 70
Showars T·storms Rain Aurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 85 55 Philadelphia 62 44 Wash DC 73 48
VUI Al.?OCl~l•d Prs93 Graphic:3/Ye! 
rriday, September 29, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Chicana 2000 series comes to a close with Zapata lecture 
away from the id()a that the quinceancras are a
By KATIE MILLER 
celebration that young women will soon 
New, Writer 
become wives and mothers. "It appears that the young lady is dressed up
Dominga Zapata defined the meaning behind 
as a bride, but she is dressed as a queen. ,\
quiuccancras on Thursday in Stapleton Lounge. 
Hispanic young larly will be morn than a moth­
Zapata's presentation was the conclusive lec­er and more than a wife," 
ture in tho Fall Lecture 2000 
said Zapata.
Series. 
Sometimes in Mexico, the 
The quinccancras arc a "[Quinceaneras] is not a 
quinceaneras are a controver­
right ol' passage in young 
cotillion. not a sv. 
llispanic women's lil'e. The 
•"AL Limes, only wealthy l'am­
sacrament, but a
celebration takes place on the 
il ies can afford to have a 
15th birthday. t\ quinceancra combination ofboth. 
quinccancras for their daugh­takes place at a special mass 
The young lady ters," said Zapata.
and is usually followed by a 
celebrates defining Originally, the quinceaneras 
party. 
could only be found in the
herselfas a person."
"The young lady has 
Mexican culture, however, reached the lr~vcl of adult­
this has changed.
hood. Throughout the cclc­
Dominga Zapata "When I was in Cuba, I saw hrution. the young lady will 
young women celebrating
speaker
speak no longer or lrnrsclr, their quinceaneras. We often 
but ol' those around her. She 
learn l'rom thf' 22 llispanich(•comes the main focus of' the 
countries," said Zapata.celebration," said Zapata. 
Cultural perspective, libera­Zapata stressed that the celebration is both a 
tion, legacy and theology are the four patterns cultural and religious event. that take place in a quinceanera according to "It is not a cotillion. not a sacrament, hut a Zapata. 
combination or both," she said. "The young "A simple celebration is happening, but it is lady celebrates defining herself as a person." 
more. It is the celebration of womanhood." she ln recent years, llispanic women have moved said. 

Fate of SafeRide remains undecided until fall break 
By JASON McFARLEY 
Assistant News Editor 
Students anticipating word on whether SafeRide will restart its operations on cam­pus will have to wait at least another three weeks !'or an answer. 
Student government repre­sentatives said on Thursday that no conclusive decision on the matter would come until after the University's mid­semester break. 
"Shortly after fall break, we're planning to decide if SafeHide is something we want to keep," said Brooke Norton, student body vice president. This year's break runs Oct. 14 to 22. 
Non-operational since last spring, Safellide, in the past, acted as a taxi-type service for drunken or stranded University students in need of transporta­tion back to campus from local weekend hubs. The Student Union-sponsored program was run free of charge to students. 
Last semester, SafeHidc was beset by problems with staffing drivers to work on the projects two nights of operation, Fridays and Saturdays, and getting them to work their assigned shifts. 
SafeRide has not started at all this academic year. 
SafeRide's role on campus is of concern to student gover­nors, according to Jay Smith, chief-of-staff in the Office of the Student Body President. Smith said they plan to look at what's preventing the project 
Oktoberfest Starts With Internship Week! 

October 2 

PUBLISHJNG, JOURNALISM, AND MEDIA A presentation by the Career Center's Director, Lee Svete, will highlight internships in publishing, journalism, and media. Don't miss this opportunity! 
October 3 

GOVERNMENT, PUBLIC POLICY, "THINK TANKS", AND LEGAL This presentation will focus on a wide array of government related internships. Join Career Counselor Anita Rees and the Government Department's Carolina Arroyo for alively session. 
October4 

THE ARTS, EDUCATION, AND INTERNATIONAL Join Career Resource Coordinator Allison Hagan and The College of Arts & Letters' Jennifer Nemecek for an overview of these interesting and often overlooked internship opportunities. 
October 5 

ADVERTISING, CONSULTING, RETAIL, M,ARXETING, AND SALES "People" Person? Team Player? Opinionated? Problem Solver7 Organizer? Creative? Artistic? Whatever your personality or background, join Career Counselor Robin Sullivan to explore internship opportunities in the business arena. 
Celebrate Internship Opportunities With A Week's Worth Oflnformational Events! 
All of the sessions will be held in: 
The Career Resource Center 
114 Flanner Hall 
6:00 to 7:00 PM 
:G•·-~·-----::s
__ ·_,•·.·
-'-· 
:.,. --~ . 
;_ .J..__ . ,#~':
-
..... ,.-.........~~ 

from running effectively and then make a decision as to its fate. 
"We're right on schedule. This is around the time we had targeted to begin looking at it," Smith said. 
Norton said that before a verdict is rendered, those involved in the decision-mak­ing process will consider stu­dents' patterns of use of SafeRide last semester. Those patterns will likely determine if the program is in enough demand to continue and if 
I HI NOT A CROQY 


_ .Edd in m:st Drug Stores or via rur wcl:> site ' @ www.AirbomeHealth.com _J,gl or call 1-800-590-9794 ;::: '.'.::: <:?: ~:--·: !'.;.::•' D. 19.!G. ffl, CA 
EFFERVESCEi-JT COLD FORMULA 

. .S'Jld in m:st DnJJ St.DTes or via a;.r \..e.J si:.e ' ~ wWvi. AirborneHealth. com _)g/ or call 1-800-590-9794 
... -·:··;· •••:~' lr.C'. ~ti.. 0-.Ulc::.te, IC 

restarting it is a financially sound undertaking. Program information indicates that SafeRide operated four hours, from 11 p.m. to 3 a.m., each night it ran. Between 30 and 40 students utilized the service per night. 
This year, funds totaling around $4,000 have already been sot aside for the project's operating budget. 
In the coming weeks, Smith said there are also plans to talk with former SafeRide workers. Other student input may come 
in the form of focus groups. 
"Our decision will depend a lot on what the students we talk to think," Norton said, who added that student gov­ernment officials in conjunc­tion with the Student 
ctivities Office will make the definitive determination about SafeRide. 
If they opt to continue the program, it would operate on a two-week trial basis begin­ning around mid-November. It would then be in full effect in January at the beginning of the soring semester. 



page 4 Friday, September 29, 2000
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

u u , ·-· ! ;. , r , , 
NOTRE DA.\.1E 
~olufloJt~ C'e11.fdr Presen ts.. ,, ... iiApple @ 

int,cp,-.ie-! OJftlw:Y Jti..li,;, 5~%m1 l>y ll,;1m1,m K111d,)11 .uiJ mLkh mnre .•...•...•.J;r,)m $%5 (3 )'e.ar W;llff:1nr)it
• 

:~':>tl-. ,iou,..., 45iJ. .:,r ':>lluMlh l\iw.t-rPC (iJ p.r•.lL\'.Sli<ir 7Cff.. 11:ic.1 ft 2ix; II m :H1Glf. Ulrr.i Al·\ bud LWI.: Jfr,•. All ltt,.Gl: l2S i'ra gr;;iplv..,; ......-i:dier.iror 
Four friendly models. Five luscious colors. 
Presenting the ne\v iBook~ 
,."'.,..,..,(......«...,., 
l 'SI. I"""""· nm-c,
--i"--~~-... 
e-lW1•• 

The new Powerbook. 
ll\""·e1 P<~ Li} pro,:c..'5.S<ll5 lM u.p ru '><lO Mh1. ,if ll,fl!.tc pt·dorm.rn.,:c 
l ocn or 20<.-:i I~ Ulcr,1 ATA/(,o harJ Jisk Jm-\.' Ari !UC[ 11,,g Pm !!,"'lohil'.S canl 11.-irl1 16.M B t,f gr.1pluo. n1,;mm:r Al'J RACE ~k,hilicy 128 ~i<lt-:• ~(lllltr,.rll,., •,.i1h /1.(,P L\ MMB vi hrgn-1-.:rfum1.111,;:1: lllelfll>JJ' 14.1-trn:h fJi:.11,:11-fl ..l)TFT XC.j:\ 1i<.ti,·c--m.uriJ1 clispl..y 5rrndl flkJ"flriflt f,K ~1.111·,~11.itt1t ,.lt·t.11.11.,p l0-I.' lk,cJ~ll,•.;pf!<•hk "7:1:.1mh:1111 b,1r ...... fo·,m SZ34!J (3 YtM "''JO 1111ty) 
tl~fj Rlitru ,'\"l:•VM hNJ Ji,k d1 iv~ Alt-divr.il i.pc.ik.er :i;ysi:•·.m wirh l fomu.n K..trJon .iuJio rc.:b.nuloe:Y h 00\ s I ~82 {] v~.ar w.-rr.mry, ~!S ll1(1 fl.lmr & fl~rr J!!!l Jd\~) 
¦ ¦The dual processor Mac G4. 
Twin• lhc Ptntium•crushing; rmv<•r, Twin• tht• ('mtlnp<'·()U$hing fun. 
Up lYJ f'/tl) i(jl}).fffr ro.......-rf'C G4 pm.:>!.""..sot,;,. .nJ t..1,1..rn, 111uyrn or 1S6MB ,1f PCJOO :i:LJU..'\!1,4 20(i I~ )4-i!O-q,m l'lu" AT/1.l(,6, 1Ctli 8 721.ltJ·rrrn Ulna ATAN1t,. 40C l~ 720<1,rp:rn llhr.i ATAlbl, F11ur ~~puni1)11 air>(l, indw.Ling thnl.' (-,4.la1 PC! sl~•l!i m,J '-~11! '1.i..lll;Aii..J AGP 2X l:,r.lJ'hii.:s ...~ !ol,:,r DVD-R( lM ,i,iw· i<·,r pf.iyiog [)VD ,,.;J,... ,, ,.r OVP.RA,\1 dt i~c for u,,1in[!. u11 tli 'IAGEl p•1 diw.: 
·1mtmt i¾H~-~iJ\.' d,._>(1[ thiil ,n.J.~.. UJ'!,U it.II.' \.''H-) '""" rrvm S:2'.\4; (3 Yl.'J.r W,lrt,IIM'.t, h.·-~ m~>Jltt•.•1 & 11,,,,,,. (fo,J. Jri1•i:_I 

Po,vcr Mac G4 Cube. 
So much tt:rhnolHg}', So tittle spac.:t~. 
-i'M.1,\fl lz hi,v,l!rl'C ti•i pm.:&!,){ 'l\1th Vdocirr l'.llri)ne 


.. ~ _Displays too.... 
and don 'l forget. ... 
I?'" S•t•I.,·, ,fopk) .W,"> 1~-H..r l""1d Ji,rJ-1:, $'131.1 ·__,, !r -lt.prl~ <.:i1wm,1 Ji.pl.iv H 121! 
Appl~~~
4'~")'-1 :n•»: ...,-Jrr;mrr ....h,•u 1,i,u·i.:ha~tJ R'J•ar:i.,d~•­
'!"1'111-hl '·"' i':J'l.1f it-~1U1,a•J d•1tf
~ 3 _t\'":tr WllfrJrtt.,· "'li,;11 pun h-.1;.,J ,.,i1l1 Jll .,\,1•h-CP'...' mdu,Jin1=. ·" _J,'1.,U Ar·pl,.<:,,,,., 



P4. NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDEJW. CREDrt UNION 
N1.,w Gfft"r1ng 9,9<~1,APR(.\iamr"'11•~rw11t;11,:,; ~al,r) fin.rndng 
\X•'ch ~he~ www.nd.cJu/ ...~")lmion Ema.ii; solmton@nd.c:Ju 
m hrnlry ..u,,J srnff for prrrom1I k'dmr;/1">g_.)' J'll.rdm..,n" frNt1 
Phom:: 63 l • 7 4177 fn: 631-3880 
(he ~oludons c~1Ht•r(nor ft.,r J... p.trrffiL'1m}, 
l,,ur On-(ampllis T-rc.·n~ Stort! 

ATION 
Friday, September 29, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Former Candadian leader dies: 
Formn Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau, a flamboyant and charismat.ic political giant who led the country through some of iL<; most tumultuous events, di('d Thursday lie was 80. Trudeau died of prostate cancer, said Hoy Ilocnan. senior partner ol' the Montreal law tirrn llccnan Blaikie, where Trudeau worked. Ill: said the Trudeau's health had been dcclin· ing "very steadily" in the last few days. 
Family member sues Air France: 
Tho son ol' a German kIIJed in the Concorde jct crash outside Paris has filed a wrongful death lawsuit in federal court against Air Franco, Continental Airlines and seven other compani(1s. The lawsuit doesn't specify what damages are being sought, but attorneys said it would b11 in the millions of dollars. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Pentagon to sell arms to Taiwan: 
The Pentagon said Thursday it plans a series ol' arms sales to Taiwan valued at $1.3 billion, including 200 supersonic air-to-air missiles and advanced military communications systems. China, which regards Taiwan as part of the motherland, strongly opposes U.S. arms sales to the island. Under the Taiwan Relations Act. the United States is committed to providing Taiwan with defensive arms. 
Number of uninsured Americans declines: The number of Americans without health insurance declined last year for the [irst lime since the Census Bureau began collecting data in 1987. Health care advocates and ana­lysts cited the robust economy as the main rea­son. About 42.5 million people, or 15.5 percent or the population, lacked insurance in 1999, compared with 44.2 million, or 16.3 percent, in 1998, according to data released Thursday. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Judge evicts congregation: In an extraordinary clash between church and state, a federal judge Thursday ordered a congrega­tion to clear out of its church to satisfy a nearly $6 milllion debt to the !HS. U.S. District Judge Sarah Evans Barker gave the Indianapolis Baptist Temple until Nov. 14 to move out, after which the IRS will sell the building. The church has been feuding with the IRS since 1984, when lhe Hcv. Greg Dixon. now pastor emeritus, ordained all church employees as ministers and refused to withhold income and Social Security taxes. The ms said the unpaid taxes. penalties and interest total nearly $6 million. 
Markel Walch 9/28  
Dow ]ONES Up: 1.338 AMEX:  10,824.06 + 195.70 CompositeSame: Volume:473 l, 172. I 99.936•939.80 +l 1.37  

Nasdaq: 3778.32 -122.02 
NYSE: 667.75 +l 1.70 S&P 500: 1458.29 +31.72 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY '}&CHANGE SGAIN PRICE CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -.l.71 d.12.75 5').44 INTEL CORI' {INTC) -t l.29 .0.)6')0 44.44 WORDLCO~I INC (WCOM) +I 1.27 ,2.9375 2~.uu DELL COMPUTER (DELL) . J.09 , 10025 33.44 LUCENT TECH INC (LU) +7.77 ,2.24~{) 31.ll 
DENMARK 


Associated Press 

COPENHAGEN 
In the latest blow to the beleaguered euro, Danish voters on Thursday rejected the European Union's com· mon currency in favor of keeping the 125-year-old krone. 
The referendum -close­ly watched because Britain, Sweden and Greece also plan votes on euro adoption -was an embarrassment to the European Union which has pressed for a common currency. 
With nearly 90 percent of referendum votes counted, 53 percent opposed making the euro Denmark's curren­cy. while 47 percent favored the switch from the krone, according to the Interior Ministry. 
Denmark's Social Democratic-led govern­
ment. which strongly sup­ported the euro, conceded defeat. 
"Democracy has spoken; our people have spoken," said Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen. 
Pia Kjaersgaard, leader of the far-right Danish People's Party, called the result a "great. great victory." 
European leaders sought to minimize any potential damage to the currency, which has declined more than 25 percent in value against the dollar since it was introduced by 11 EU members in January 1999. 
French Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, whose coun­try holds the six-month rotating EU presidency. said that a rejection would not pressure the euro because Denmark's econo­my makes up only a small part of the organization's economy. 
The euro is now used for corporate and investment transactions, but coins and bank notes will come into use in 2002. 
Danish radio reported that about 86 percent of the country's four million eligi• ble voters cast ballots in the referendum -Denmark's fifth plebiscite on European Union issues since 1973. 
In the five referendums, Danes have shown they want to stay in the European Union but are cautious about the terms. 
In 1992, Danes stunned fellow EU nations by reject­ing the Maastricht treaty. which called for a common currency and a common defense. 
A year later, Danes adopted a revised treaty that allowed them to stay outside the European Monetary Union. 

Thursday's result meant Denmark won't join 11 other European Union countries, including heavy­weights Germany and France, in giving up its cur­rency for a regional European Union one. 
'This is not a nationalistic 'no,' it's a popular 'no,' it is a European no," Holger K. Nielsen of the Socialist People's Party told support· ers in parliament as he held a glass of champagne. 
Thursday's vote was closely watched by Sweden and Britain, whose govern­ments support joining the European Monetary Union but plan to let the public decide in referendums. 
Even non-European Union member Norway was watching as it debates again whether to join the trading bloc. 
Elian's Miami family sues Reno 
claims Reno and the Immigration and Florman said. "We still believe our
Associated Press 

Naturalization Service used false actions were appropriate and lawful." MIAMI statements to obtain the arrest and The plaintiffs in the lawsuit are Elian Gonzalez's Miami relatives search warrants used in the pre­Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez: filed a lawsuit Thursday against dawn Apr. 22 raid to seize the 6-year­his great-aunt, Angela; and their Attorney General Janet Heno, alleging old boy. daughter, Marisleysis, Elian's second­the armed raid that took the Cuban The Justice Department defended cousin. They had cared for Elian boy from their home and reunited the decisions made by its leaders as since Nov. 1999, when the boy sur­him with his father was illegal. appropriate under the circumstances. vived a boat crossing from Cuba that "The last time I saw anything like "Unfortunately, the Gonzalez fami­killed his mother and 10 other people. that was in films from postwar ly's refusal to comply with a lawful Their lawsuit claims the raid violat­Germany when the Nazis were invad­federal order and their statements ed the family's rights of expression ing people's homes without cause." that they would never give up the and assembly, freedom from unrea­said the family's lawyer, Ron child except by force compelled us to sonable searches and seizures. and Guralnick. take enforcement actions," Justice freedom from the use of excessive 
The lawsuit filed in federal court Department spokeswoman Ca.role force without due process of law. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 29, 2000 
"If you are wearing a shirt that she said at Wednesday's BOG ment." paper articles that detailed the says Saint Mary's, [and) someone meeting that she did not feel the Those present at the meeting history of' the struggle, including
Juniors 

reads it, it sends a certain mes­ shirt violated the merchandising  aL,;o brought up other controver­ the infamous parasite letter from  
continued from page l  sage," said Molly Kahn, student trustee and member of BOG.  criteria that must be met to sell class T-shirts. Hosenbush, also  sial T-shirts that have made the rounds of both Saint Mary's and  1997, Koclch asserted that it was necessary to reach a compromise  
the shirt and would wear it. But I  "Yes, it might have been taking  the director of Student Activities,  Notre Dame. The 'Women on  between the junior class board  
don't think you can  take some­ away your responsibilitlos, but  was one of the administrators  Top'  shirt  and  the  ·vagina  and the student body.  
on(''s opportunity away."  for us to endorse it reflects nega­ that approved the T-shirts for  Monologues' shirt were  men­ "This is women getting mad at  
"ll is not why the actions were taken, but how the action was  tively on us as an institution." Members of the class board  printing. "/BOG! was the only time we  tioned. "Notre Dame doesn't like the  other women for stupid reasons," Koelsch said. "I don't believe in  
tukr.n.'' said Kristen Wojtas. fundraising chair for junior board and one of the T-shirt  protested that they had gone through the  "The shirt goes against  could have stopplld Ithe sale of the  'Nebraska Blows' shirt," Kahn said. "It's one thing for a student government to support some­ the rivalry bntwcen Saint Mary's women and Notre Da111e women. I've lived with it for four years. I  
designers. But not all attendees were in support of' the shirt. Many mcm­bnrs of the junior class folt they  appropriate approval process, get­ting the shirt  the mission statement [of the College]."  - shirts I," Hosenbush said. "Very clearly !the  thing, and quite another for someone to just sell shirt out of their backpack." Erin Weldon, vice-president of  don't think it's right. "We're women who should work well together. I think that it is something we discuss. I hope  
ha.cl  not been consulted and  approved by  shirt] is a risk  the junior class, stressed that the  we can find something to make  
approved o/' the decision that BOG made. Others felt that the shirt was not representative of Saint Mary's.  Sl.udcnt Activities. Because the shirt had  Sarah Hoshaw junior  because of tlrn Notre Dame land] Saint Mary's student  T-shirt was something that tho junior class board believed in. "This is important to the junior board," Weldon said. "We've  the junior class happy and satisfy the student body," she said. Koekh emphasized that it was important at this point to look  
"I came here becausn it would  b  e  c  n  relations. BOG  worked hard on the shirt. To the  past blaming peoplo for the shirt  
create relations between me and  approved, they did not feel BOG's  has a responsibility to look out  juniors who don't like this, I'm  and rnalize the importance of the  
others that would uphold my val­ decision was appropriate.  for the entire student body. I told  sorry. It is hard when you make  discourse happening.  
ues," Sarah lloshaw. a junior, said. ''The shirt goes ag,Linst the  Kahn detailed the criteria for approval of class T-shirts. includ­ you you need to be prepared for the reaction Ito the shirt. I This is  decisions and yet arc told, 'You didn't think.' We all have friends  "Nobody here is to blame," Koelsch said. "It just happened.  
mission  statement  !of  the  ing the requirement that states  in your ball court."  at Notre Dame. We didn't mean  !Whether or not the shirt is offen­ 
College!." Mary Kate Driscoll, treasur!'r  that no approved T-shirt can contain anything about alcohol,  Renner said that the Board had no choice but to take the action  to step on anybody's toes." Pride Week 2000 chairwoman  sive! depends 011 individual inter­pretation. The fact is that we art•  
of the junior class, agreed with  drugs, or sexism.  they did. "That is the first time  Emily Koelsch emphasized the  here having this discussion. Take  
1loshaw. "Beyond this T-shirt we  "That is an existing policy,"  that BOG has had to nix a deci­ importance of understanding the  this to your advantage and run  
arc  Saint  Mary's  women,"  Kahn said. "The approval was a  sion," Honner said. "We have a  history  of gender  relations  with it."  
Driscoll said. "We nct!d to prowct  mistake."  merchandising policy  which  between Saint Mary's and Notre  "I wish communication like this  
ours1!lvcs at Saint Mary's before  Georgeanna Hoscnbush, advi­ states that nothing can  be print­ Dame.  had happnned from the get-go,"  
we defend ourselves as individu­ sor for the Board of Governance,  ed contrary to the mission state- Distributing a packet or news- said junior Abeer Zaycd.  

als. This !situation I is dishearten­said that the responsibility ing." of printing the shirt rested1 
Members or BOG argued that in tlrn junior class. While because the shirt reflected nega­Hosenbush warned the tively on Saint Mary's, the board Junior Board that they could not endorse the message or needed to consider the rcac-. the shirt. Lion the shirt would cause.I 

The Univusity of Notre Dame Department of Music Guest Artist Series presents the 
Ying Quartet 
Sunday, October 1, 2000 2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum 
Tickers Required: $3 scudents • $6 seniors• $8 ND/SMC employees• $10 general admission Tickers available ar the LaForrune Box Office, (219) 631-8128 
Foi compier~ infurmacion, visit brtp:1/w:ww.nd.cdu/-congocrs or call (219) 63l-6201 
Most ND Smdeqt, ·--. Mae Healthy Choica 
vs. Seton Hall 5:30 pm vs. Rutgers 1:00 pm 
Wear your 



~ ..-,,,.·:,.}/ <..,·

Jutbol shirt!!! 

Friday vs. Pittsburgh 7:30 pm 

fr 

Friday vs. Villanova 7:00 pm
* First 250 fans receive a ND autograph book! 
Sunda vs. Geoi etown 2:00 m 
• 1·•\.i 
---.,.. -,,. 
_, 

~..£,~,,•• 
.,J#II,~ 
"­
J r: ..,i J 

1 
0::" 
a)(c irvm PILLARS l1t1I & Dru1; EJu..:.ili,iu urlum· ~tuJc11l Ccuu:r Llniv..:rsily nf .:'•fotru llm11l' (2. 1':(1 td l ,797iJ h11p:.'1',\ ".,,..,11J.cclu.i·-,dJru4 


Friday, Septmeber 29, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 

Something 

for 

every 

one of 

your 
9,000 

tastebuds. 
Introducing the new 99( BK CRAVERSTM Menu. 
NEW MENU ITEMS 
• Finger Foods -Mozzarella Cheese Sticks 
-

-JALAPENO POPPERS® 
Friday, September 29, 2000
page8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Friday, September 29, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
SMC prepares for Pride Week 
By KATIE MILLER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's is gearing up for "Pride Week 2000: Are you Belle enough?" set to begin Monday, Oct. 2. 
This will be the fourth annu­al celebration of pride for the College since the first pride day following the infamous parasite letter in 1997. Begun originally as a day-long event, the festivities have stretched into a week over their four­year evolution. 
"Pride week has gotten a lot more publicity since its start," said senior Emily Koelsch, co­organizer of Pride Week 2000. "The first time it was all thrown together in response to the parasite letter. Now it's a lot more organized and it's great that we have a week." 
The week will consist of favorite activities from last 
year and new additions to the activities. 
A picnic on the green kicks off the festivities Monday, fol­lowed by a concert given by Saint Mary's women's choir. 
Special events Tuesday include Celebrate Your Major Day, the run/walk Oktoberfest, Founder's Day celebrations, SISTAR acadf~m­ic grant presentations and ghost stories in Le Mans tower room. 
Thursday events feature a pep rally in Angela Athletic Facility. athlete recognition ceremonies, a craziest Belle contest and student-encour­aged attendance at the volley­ball game. Seniors and juniors take on sophomores and freshmen in the "Odds vs. Evens" powder puff football game. 
Friday concludes the week with a prayer service on the island. a co-sponsored Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's pep rally before the Stanford game and the Notre Dame Relays, where the swim team will open their season. 
"Each year, there's more and more pride at Saint Mary's," said junior Laura Stevens. 
"I think H's great that Saint Mary's comes together, espe­cially at this time, to show our love and enthusiasm for our school," said junior Katie McIntyre. 
On the brink of her last Pride Week at Saint Mary's, Koelsch is confident that the tradition she helped initiate will continue. 
"The same core group of people have helped organize this year after year. I cannot wait for Pride Week to start. It really shows how much pride we have in Saint Mary's. It's a tradition that will continue," she said. 
Students enter city 
for service work 
By KATIE RZEPKA 
News Writer 
The third annual Saint Mary's in the City service project takes place Saturday. Students will volunteer their time to benefit the South Bend YWCA. 
'The YWCA has had compli­cations with roof leakage and said they desperately needed any help we could give them," said Sister Linda Kors, director of volunteer service and the SURV center at Saint Mary's. 
The job for Saturday entails painting and cleaning. Saint Mary's in the City started in 1998 in observance of 
· Founder's Day. The first agency to benefit from the service project is Saint Margaret's House, a drop-in center for poor, low-income 
women and children. Approximately 100 students joined the effort by painting the building's second floor. Last year the tradition continued at St. Joseph's Care Center West. The number of volunteers rose to about 140. Student.5 not only painted, but did window wash­ing and gardening as well. 
"Since I started working at Saint Mary's, I have become conscious that some agencies have real needs," said Kors. "Saint Mary's in the City is an exciting way of meeting such needs of the community." 
The entire campus is invited to participate. "It really brings out the focus of the College," said Kors. 
Saint Mary's in the City con­tinues to seek volunteers. For further information, contact the SURV Office at 284-5368. 
efw... 
-­
.. 
••. 

,,----.:::...~--=---.....................=-=========-====
..........=====---------------==-----.....========....................-~ 

TO ALL SOCIOLOGY GRADUATE STIJPENTS AND SOCIOLOGY FIRSTAND SECOND MAJORS THE FIRST CHAIR'S OPENDOOR NIGHT FRIDAY,. SEPTEMBER 29, 2000 
7:00 -9:00P.M. 

824 FLANNER HALL 
COMEMEET THE SOCIO.LOGYDEPARTMENT CHAIRMAN ­
MICHAEL WELCH. FEEL FREE TO COMMUNICATE ALL CONCERNS.,IDEAS, ETC. 
ND fundraising exceeds $1 billion 
million more than a year ago.
Special to The Observer 
As well as being the first Catholic university to top theNotre Dame has become the 
1 billion-dollar mark, Notre
first Catholic university to raise 
Dame JO ms Princeton more than $1 billion in a 
University as the only institu­f'undraising campaign. 
tions without medical schools to
The University's 
reach this milestone, and Notre
"Generations" campaign 
Dame also is the third smallestexceeded the $1-billion mark in university, in terms of alumni
mid-September, with three­
base. to do it. Notre Dame is
and-a-half months remaining 
the 18th university overall, anduntil its Dec. 31 conclusion. The 12th private, to exceed $1 bil­campaign, announced in May lion.
1997, passed its goal of $767 
"This accomplishment is a 
S T U D 
Recording • Production • Mast· Duplication • Music &_vocal · Demo Production • Music Equi 
Sound & lights • Sales & Re Analog 2" & Digital Hard Drive S 
"The Biggest Recording Stu In Northwest Indians·• 

I(219) 2ss-s2f 
testament, first of all. to the alumni and friends of the University, who are dedicated to Notre Dame's being a great Catholic university and unfail­ing in their generous support of that mission," said William Sexton, vice president for University relations. "It also is a testament to our faculty, stu­dents, administrators and staff, whose achievements make Notre Dame a university that attracts strong support. And finally. it is a testament to the great skill, hard work and inno­vative thinking of our develop­ment organization. which made it happen." 
Sexton now has overseen both "Generations," which has raised more money than all of Notre Dame's previous cam­paigns combined, and the $463 million "Strategic Moment" campaign, which at its comple­tion in December 1990 was the most successful campaign con­ducted until that time by a Catholic university. 
"Already, 72 percent of Notre Dame's alumni have con­tributed to the 'Generations' campaign," said Daniel Reagan, assistant vice president of University relations and execu­tive director of development. "Notre Dame annually is among the top three to four universi­ties in the nation in percentage of contributing alumni, and that participation is the key to our fundraising success." 
While emphasizing that more than three months remain in the campaign, Reagan noted that its goal already has been exceeded by more than $233 million, or more than 30 per­cent. The campaign's aim is to increase student scholarship funds, increase the number of the University's endowed facul­ty positions, enhance the quali­ty of the University libraries, fund needed new facilities and improve and provide program­matic support to a variety of academic centers and insti­tutes. 
got news? 1-5323. 
page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 29, 2000 
Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
Equities Divisional Information Session 
Wednesday, October 4, 2000 Alumni Senior Club 6:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m. 
Investment Management Divisional Information Session 
Sunday, October 8, 2000 For location, contact Career Services 7:30 p.m. -9:30 p.m. 
Investment Management Divisional Information Session 
Wednesday, October 11, 2000 Center for Continuing Education, Room 210 6:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. 



MINDS. WICE OPEN~M www.gs.com 
Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohitJited tJy federal, state or local laws. © 2000 Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
Zl62B7270-09-00 

Friday, Seprember 29, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 11 
ing too many [negative] discussed it with Michelle things about the shirt." [Nagle} and Chrissie IRenner!
T-shirt 
Junior Board president and they could see some 
Katy Robinson said that she problems with it." 
continued from page 1 
did not approve the final The problems with the and ensure that the design design for the shirt. While design led the Board of she did see a preliminary Governance to vote to buy all 
conforms to the merchandise 
version of the shirt. she was the shirts and prevent distri­
policy. "This is a small market," 
uncomfortable with the "ND" bution of the shirts on cam­label and told the designers pus.
Rosenbush said. "We do this so we don't have classes 
to remove it. Several members of the competing to sell the same "I thought the shirt was junior class claim that BOG's cute," Robinson said. "It still actions are a form of censor­
shirt. Whoever gets the idea 
might have brought up con-ship.
first has squatter's rights." 
troversy Robinson, however, said
The mer-ch and is e but it BOG was right to go against policy states "We work so hard to would not Rosenbush's approval and h a v e seize the shirts. Robinson
that designs maintain those ties with 
brought voted for the ban and said
may not fea­
Notre Dame. Something 
N o t r e that BOG's actions were not
ture themes 
as simple as this T-shirt Dame into censorship.
that promote 
alcohol, could totally destroy this [if the Although she has drawn drugs or sex­labels were criticism for her opinions,
those ties." 
left off1." she believes she did the right
ism. The 
Those thing.

Junior 
Board's form Katy Robinson labels, She said her responsibility however, to uphold the goals and stan­
was exam­Junior Board president 
ined by were not dards of the College were removed more important than winning
assistant 
and the popularity contests with her
director of student 
Junior classmates. B o a r d "It's not censorship,"
activities Rhonda Elmore and 
voted to Robinson said. "We work so Rosenbush, according to the 
approve the design with the hard to maintain those ties labels at a meeting where with Notre Dame. Something
board. Although she approved the 
Robinson was absent. as simple as this T-shirt design, Rosenbush said she "I was at a game when they could totally destroy those heard complaints both before voted for this design," said ties. If I had the opportunity 
and after her approval. 
Robinson, a captain on Saint to end all the controversy Mary's soccer team. "I was that's going on here and I
"After I approved it I was still hearing things," there the first time they dis­had to hurt my reputation to Rosenbush said. "I was hear-cussed it. But I was not there do it, I would. I'm willing to for the final agreement. I had stand behind my beliefs." 

TIAA-CREF provides financial solutions to last a lifetime. 
Building your assets is one thing. Figuring out 
With TIAA-CREF,


how those assets can provide you with a 
you can receive:*

comfortable retirement is quite another. 
• Cash withdrawals At TIAA-CREF, we can help you with both. You • Systematic or fixed-period paymentsh can count on us not only while you're saving and • Interest-only payments planning for retirement, but in retirement, too. • Lifetime income payments** 
• A combination of these 

""Guaranteed by our claims-paying ability.
Just call us. We'll show you how our flexible range of payout options can meet your retirement goals. 
CREF GROWTH ACCOUNT1 
With TIAA-CREF, you benefit from something few other companies can offer: a total commitment to your financial well-being, today and tomorrow. 
26.70% 
27.87% 
26.60%;::: 
1 YEAR 
5 YEI\RS SINCE INCEPTION 
~..
AS OF 6/3 0/00 
6/30100 4/29194 
_.. lw

*Note: Availability may depend on your employer's retirement 
··•1· ,;.->· :>."' ,:·,,. ::-~· 'w.· ::~ • •),<"" •,:,. '"!!: ""'.' 
•c.
··~ ,,.,_.

plan provisions contract. Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59½ may be subject to restrictions, and may also be 
CREF Growth is one of many CREF variable annuities.
sub1ect to a 10% additional tax. Adcl1tional restrictions also apply to the TIAA Traditional Annuity 
Ensuring the future 
1. 8 0 0 . 8 4 2 . 2 7 7-6 
~ 
f-------------------------t
for those who shape it."' 
www.tiaa-cref.org 
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1800 842.2733, ext 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. 1. Due to current market volatility, our securities products' performance today may be less than shown above. The invest­ment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflects past performance and are not indicative cf future rates cf Mum. These returns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shores you own rnay be more or less than their original price upon redemp­tton. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, lrK. distnbutes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
INDIA 
Weeks of flooding kill hundreds 
Associated Press 
Flooding in Asia 

AISTIWA India Steering clear of bloated 
Monsoon rains caused rivers 
corpses and poisonous snakes, 
to overflow in India and 
flood survivors wade through 
Bangladesh, leaving up to
chest-high water in eastern 
18 million homeless and
India, searching for lost rela­tives and valuables. 
over 700 dead. 
Jackals and vultures move in 
and there is no place for crema­
tions or burials in the aftermath 
of 10 days of torrential rain that 
have kHJed about 1,000 people 
and marooned millions. 
"We saw many bodies float­
ing. Some people tied stones to 
the corpses to sink the bodies 
because there was no place to 
bury them," said Basanti Das, 
35, who weaves saris by hand in 
Aisthala village, 45 miles north 
of Calcutta. "There is so much 
water all around, where is the 
place to cremate anyone?" 
Ten days after unseasonable 
monsoon rains forced rivers to 
overflow across eastern India 

and western Bangladesh, people 
-joined by their goa1s and dogs 225 are missing and presumed 
-are still living on the roofs of dead. 
their mud and brick houses to In Bangladesh, 57 have died. A 
guard against thieves who row total of 18 million in both coun­
up in boats to loot abandoned tries are believed to be 
homes. marooned. Millions more have 
In India, 651 people are known seen their meager homes washed to have died in the floods, and away.
hi!~r,'1 g~~,~t~~~~~
7,'-,. 

Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days ~ . ,:• -Lunch Spec1al$4.75 •• Mon• Fri 11 30. 3·00 PM ~ ! Dinner Starting at $6 45~ 1 Sunday-Thursday 11 30 AM· 10.00 PM I Friday· Saturday 11:30 AM· 11 00 PM 
:' Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 
/ 

222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 
Get a 5' x 8' ND flag today! 
Great for students. 20% discount on 5'x 8' ND flag and 10% discount on all other items for ND students, faculty and staff with ND photo I.D • 
... 


The Castle ofFlags © 
GO IRISH!!!! 
FLAGS INTERNATION~~L® 
10845 McKinley Highway Osceola, lndhma 46561 Telephone: 219-674-5125 Visit us on the web at www.tlagd.net 
Widest selection of Notre Dame flags and banners in the country. Over 70 varieties of U.S. flags, states and U.S. territories; international flags from around the world. 
Jim Bolinger, '84 -Prcprietor 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THF page 12 BSERVER Friday, September 29, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.0. Box Q. No<re [)amc. IN 46556 01/4 Sot11h Dining I-fall, Noire Dam<, IN ,\&556 
EnnoR IN Cll!EF Mike: Connolly 

AfANA(;ING EDITOR BUSINF.SS MANA<,Ek Nor<:t"n Gillespie Tim L,ne 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR OrERATI0NS MANAGER Christine Kraly Brian Kessler 
NF.WS EilllOR: Anne Marie Mamngly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: lib Haughey SroRrs Em l'OR: Kerry Smilh SCENE EDITOR: Amand,1 Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHol'0 EIJITOR1 Eli1.abc:,h Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAt;fR: P:11 Peters AD OF.SIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila S\'STFMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mikt Gunvillc Wm Al>MINIST!LI.TOR: Adam Turner C0NTROl.l.liR: Bob Woods GRAl'HICS EDITOR: Jose Cudlnr 
CONTACT Us 
OmcE MANAGER/GENERAi. INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX....... . . ...... 631-6927 AllVFl!TlSING...................................63 l-6~00/8840 
obsc:rvcr@darwi,1.cc.nd.edu ElllTOR IN Cl!IEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EnnoRIA.\ST. ME..................631-4541 8USINF.SS OrncE....................................... 631-5313 NEWS......................................................... .631-5323 
obscrver.obsncws. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer. vicwpoin,.l@nd.edu  
SPORTS........  ....................................631-4543  
obscrvcr.sporrs. l@nd.edu  
SCENE..........  ........................................631-4 540  
observer.scene. l@nd.edu  

SAINT MAl!v'S ............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO...... ·•• ..............................................631-8767 S't'SU'.MS/Wf.R ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site a, http:llob1rrvrr.11d,du for daily upd:itcs ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, 35 well 35 cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-1he 
movies/music for 

minute forec.asrs 
weekly srudem reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus covcragc 
archives co .«.carch for 
about The Observer 
anick-s published af,er 
to meet the c-ditors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prmt and online by the students ofthe Univcrsiiy of Notre Dame du Lie and Saine Mary's Co!l~e. Edicori;1J content, induding adverrisements, is nor governed by policie, ofthe administration ofeither in.sritmion. The Observ..-r reserves the right to refuse ;u.lvcniscmcrm based on coment. 
The news is reported as a,curardy and objectively as pmsihle. Unsigned edirorials rcpm,cnc chc opinion of che majority of die Editor in Chief, M.inaging Ediwr, Assistant Manal\ing EJiror and dep,mrnent editors. Commentaries, lctrcrs and wlumns present the vi<'WS of the amhors and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Vie'.Ypoint space is available to all readers. The free cxprcssi"II ofall opinions lhrough letters is cncoun1ged. [~·ners tu the Editor llll!st be sig1wd and must include ,ontacc inform,11ion. 
Q1mlium rrg11rdwg Obun,rr polirirr ,huuid bt dirrc/­,d 10 Editor in O,i,fMilrc Gm110//y. 
BOG shirt decision reflects responsibility 
The Saint Mary's student body had Student Government Association, its evcrv reason to be embarrassed of the actions reflect upon student govern­Junior Class Board Wednesday for its ment as a whole. Board of Governance, production of a controversial class T-as the central body of Student shirt. .-Government Association, acted within 
They had even more reason to be its grounds to make a decision about an proud of their Board action carried out with­
OJhe
of Governance. in the association.
userver

The Board of Governance is entrust­did go through the I'd with the responsi­appropriate channels in bilities of acting with Student Activities to
Editorial 
While the Junior Board 
inte!{rity. protecting 

the ideals of the institution and making 
decisions in the best interest of the stu­dent body. The decision to stop distrib­ution of a shirt that is not representa­tive or tlrn ideals or the community was concurrent with those responsibilities. The Board ol' Governance deserves to be commended for a decision·that demonstrated integrity. community sensitivity and an admirable pride in the College. 
One should not confuse the Board's actions with censorship. Because the Junior Class Board is a division of Lhc 
approve the T-shirt, the Board's recognition or Student Activities' error in judgement was nec­essary. Through the decision, the Board emphasized that in this case. the actions that did not represent the majority of the student body were not acceptable, regardless of whether those decisions were made by students or administrators. 
The encouraging part of the contro­versy is the outrage of the student com­munity. Through contacting student government, writing letters to The Observer, and speaking at the junior class meeting Thursday the student body has said that the stereotypes falsely classifying Saint Mary's and Notre Dame women are not acceptable. While il is discouraging to know that some students still believe in these stereotypes, the community's shift to say that these stereotypes are offensive springs hope that these stereotypes are fading. 
Student leaders and administrators involved in producing the junior class shirt need Lo ask themselves some sPri­ous questions. The criteria for approv­ing campus T-shirts clearly need to be re-evaluated. Because class T-shirts produced by class governments arc rcl1ectivc or the Board of Governance as a whole, tho Board has a right to have input. The decision of' approval needs lo be moved oul of Student Activities and into tlrn hands of the Hoard of Governance. Its actions in this case certainly merit this responsibility. 
Preserving our journalistic freedom 
I would like to address two topics today, but both regard journalistic integrity and the right to free press. 
First, while I would agree that anyone who has concerns about a newspaper article should writo his opinion to the editor so that any mistakes or misrepresenta­tions can be cor­rected or recog­nized, I would like to request that anyone attacking a writer for her integrity please check his facts before he puts them on paper. 
Also, make cer­tain that any state­ment attributed to the vice-president is attributed to the appropriate vice-presi­dent. I remember that Latin America quote from roughly 1990, issuing from the mouth of one J. Danforth Quayle, (H­ind). 
That said. let us now turn to the ono issue that has been burning on my mind for the last couple of weeks. I would like to stand up and be counted as one mem­ber or the Notre Dame family who firmly believes that this University would be doing itself' and its students a great dis­service by assuming control of The Observer. 
If you are wondering \'\hat qualilks me to speak for this paper, let me give you a very brief' introduction. Ijoined The Observer staff in 1995 as a copy editor. By 1998, I had written dozens or articles, spent the better part or three years working f'rom sunset to sunrise and spent the last months of my senior year 

organizing and overseeing the news 
pages as the News Editor, 
I would like to use this space to dispel some misconceptions that I have heard bandied around about this newspaper. 
This newspaper's independence is not something "granted" by University presi­dent Edward Malloy. It predates University president Edward Malloy. In fact, I don't believe that this newspaper's independence was "granted" by anyone. It just ls. So, to begin with, who is Malloy to take that independent status away? Additionally, how is it possible that a newspaper can purport to serve Saint Mary's College and fall under the juris­diction of Notre Dame's Student A!Tairs'? 
To answer your objection, no the University doesn't fund this newspaper. Most of its operating revenues come from advertising. The amount that docs come f'rom tuition is voluntary subscription fee -no one said this paper is free. 
Secondly. this paper is not just a cute hobby for a couple ofstudents. It is the training ground for many of the best journalists to come from the University of Notre Dame. It is a source of information and debate for students. faculty and staff of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. It is a way that alumni can connect with the campus and the school that they loved so well. It is an organization ofjournalists working hard to report the news as they receive it. 
All pcoplo havo bias. Every person has a prejudice that he carries with him in life. I said that in my last column. But I have to question people who character­ize an organization made up of' many dif­l'erent individuals, Catholic and Protestant, straight and gay, as having one bias for the entire lot. Of many, many long nighLc; that I spent in tho paper, never once in all or the Editorial 
Board or News Department meetings 
that ! attended did one idea or one pur­
pose overshadow any argument. This 
newspaper puts together the best con­
sensus possible given varying vicwpoinL'i 
on all major coverage decisions. 
This newspaper doos not 1rned Lo sen­sationalize its news or play up stories in order to create controversy. The circula­tion for this newspaper is pretty well set, so the idea that we would crnate news is absurd in the first place. i\ statement that the majority of the student body is apathetic to the concerns of minority groups on campus is the exact mason why the newspaper should be indepen­dent and should aggressively follow these types of issues. The purpose of a news­paper is to report, without fear of retri­bution. the events and actions that occur on a given day. Sometimes this requires reporters and editors to speak loudly for those who arc not heard. 
With the University looking over its shoulder. this newspaper would lose all objectivity as far as the administration is concerned and it would become a voice for that conservative majority who thinks that no other viewpoint should be hoard but its own. We would lose a forum in which all people, regardless of religious a!Ttliation, sexual orientation or attitude towards the administration could exprnss their views. 
J\nd that could be one ol' the greatest mistakes this institution of higher learn­ing could ever make. 
Mau l,oughrcm is a '97 Notre /Jame graduate and is assistant editor at Rowman & Utile.field P11blishing Group. 
The opinions expressed in this column ure those ofthe author and not necessar­ily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
TED, THERE'S A. 
HUGE. DE.MAND 
FOR EMPLO'iEES 
LIKE '(OU. 


'-------~-...---.....--­
BUT NOT YOU SPECIFICALLY. 
...WHICH 15 FUNNY IF YOU THINK ABOUT IT. 


0 
t:: 
~ 
,:, 
I 
~-..,_~....,l,Wl,l,,...-,l:;.i:._4-1,/,___. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
HE'( l IF 'YOU CAN'T 
LA.UGH A.T YOURSELF, 
f 


... .__..........i;....~~--'---r.Q.--' 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If we value the pursuit ofknowledge, we must be free to follow wherever that search may lead us. The free mind is no barking dug to be tethered on a 1 o-foot chain." 
Adlai E. Stevenson politician 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Friday, September 29, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Questioning Coach Davie's worth to our team 
As a student at this great Cniversity I as well as every other warm-blooded creature on this cam­pus am a die-hard Notre Dame football fan. !laving been born and raised in Detroit. Michigan I am quite accustomed to the raucous fans of the Wolverines and the Spartans. This is what makes the loss this past weekend to Michigan State simply unbearable for me. 
I havP been defending Bob Davie for the past three years to friends and family members alike. I have said repeatt>dly, "lie is a Notre Dame man, just give him a chance, and he will turn things around." It ha<; now come to the point where I cannot and will not defend Coar,h Davie anymore. Watching that heartbreaking loss from inside Spartan Stadium for me was the straw that finally broke the camel's back. I truly believe that Coach Davie is outclassed every Saturday by his counter­part on the opposing sideline. 
The first thing that I do not understand is why Coach Davie insists on limiting the oITense so much simply because we have an inexperienced quarterback at the ht>lm. lie got away with it against Purdue, but it came back and bit him in the rear against Michigan State. If I recall correctly.the Spartans had a true freshman quarterbar,k that had as much playing experience as Godsey, yet the Spartans' game plan did not seem limited at all. 
Cutting out so much of the offense because our signal caller is inexperienced shows me that Coach Davie has no confidence in his offense at all. You may say that Davie has a point. Godsey 
r' is inexperienced, but what was Coach's excuse against ,,,,,...­Nebraska? With our starting quarterback leading the team in a tic ballgame with 67 seconds and two time­ouL5 left at our own 30 yard-line against the No. 1 team in the nation. Davie decides to sit on it and opt for overtime. This is inexcusable. 
What message is Davie trying to send to his team? If the head coach doesn't have confidence in his team with the starting quarterback in the game, what arc the players supposed to think? The Notre Dame football team and fans deserve much better than this, and until Davie is relieved of his duties we will continue to floun­der in mediocrity. 
Secondly, Coach Davie has absolutely no idea how to manage the clock or use his timeouts. On fourth down against the Spartans, the Irish had the ball around midfield. Lovecchio came in as the quarterback and tried to draw the Spartans offside with a hard snap count. With the play clock dwindling down to a few seconds and the Spartans unfooled, LoVecchio called a timeout. I have to believe that this is what Davie instructed his quarterback to do, but why? Why not take the five-yard delay of game penalty and punt? Field position at this point was not an issue. Instead, the Irish waste a timeout and when they need one most, down by six with a minute and a half to go in the game, they don't have any left. Did Davie think the officials would allot him the two time outs that he didn't use against Nebraska? 
To me this is simply poor coaching. How can the head coach at the University of Notre Dame, the most storied football program in the country, fail to understand the nuances of clock management and the use of time outs? Again, this is simply inexcusable. 
Thirdly, what ever happened to throwing to the tight end once in a while? In Jabari Holloway and Dan O'Leary the Irish have arguably two of the best tight ends in college football and between the two of them they have caught only six passes this season. With an immobile, inexperienced quarter­back the tight end should become the quarterback's favorite target. Why not run a few tight end drags, or buttonhooks, or outs? These are high percentage pass plays, and force opposing defenses to respect the passing game, which in turn opens up the running game. 
Against the Spartans Dan O'Leary played the majority of the game and went out on one pass route. Why is this? No one can seem to answer this question, not even Coach Davie himself. Are these plays in which the tight ends release on pass routes too complicated for Irish quarterbacks to understand? Apparently so. By limiting the Irish offense so much, Davie does not necessarily cut down on offen­sive mistakes, but rather limits his team's chances to win. 
Notre Dame delinitely has the high caliber players to compete for a National Championship, but unfortunately we do not have a high caliber coach that will allow this to happen. Coar,h Davie may someday become a great head coach, and I do hope he does, but it will simply not happen here at Notre Dame. Maybe he should look for a leading role at one of those "directional" schools that he loves to talk about so much. 
Lastly, I would like to thank our players for pouring their hearts and souls into representing Notre Dame on the gridiron. My hat is o!T to all of you, You truly are champions in my book. Goo1tluck with the rest of the season. I will be there to cheer you on throughout the remainder of your games. llopcfully Coach Davie will put you in a position to win games instead of doing what he has done for the past three and a half years, which is hinder your chances for victory. 
Oh. and Athletic Director White. this is your time to show what type of leader you are. If you have any sense of loyalty to Notre Dame and really believe that Notre Dame is is as special of a place as you claim, you will make sure that we have a new head football coach for the 2001 season regardless of how the rest of this season plays out. Remember that we arc Notre Dame and we will not stand for this debacle of a coaching situation to hinder us any longer. Notre Dame deserves better. And Coach Davie, best of luck to you next year in your job search. 
Matt Hendrick 
senior 
Off-campus Seprember 26, 2000 

Voicing opinions on SMC shirt issue 
Witholding shirt not a form of censorship 
I'm writing in response to all 
the commotion about the class 
shirt. I have two points to make. 
First, while it wa.s a verv cool 
idea and might have worked at 
another school, it doesn't here. 
With the gender n~lations being 
as they are between Saint Mary's 
and Notre Dame males and 
females. this shirt and the com­
motion it has caused can and 
may bring about some major 
problems between Saint Mary's 
women and Notre Dame students 
and begin new "parasite" type 
letters and comments. Do we 
want to be viewed this way? In 
lieu of next week -Pride Week 
-we are supposed to be cele­
brating who we are and why we 
are here. We need to ask our­
selves, does this shirt portray 
this? 

Secondly, The fact that the shirt 
was approved and has been 
denied is an important point in 
the debate. If there was a con­
cern about the shirt, the junior 
board should have conferred with 
the junior class as well as the 
entire student body. Because the 
SMC symbol was used on the 
shirt it is reflective of the entire 
SMC community and not just the 
junior class. BOG made a sound 
decision to protect the image of 
Saint Mary's College. They were 
acting in our best interest and 
that is why they are in that posi­
tion. However this is not a form of 
censorship. Censorship is not 
defined by protecting the ideals 
and appearance of a large group 
of people. Censorship is, however, 
an issue in the possible act of 
putting our student newspaper 
under University control. 
The fact that we are here 
putting up a fight over a stupid I­
shirt that in a few years will be 
laying on the bottom of a pile 
while our student paper, that has 
been here longer than we have, 
could be told what they can and 
can't write about us is pathetic. If 
we want to make a difference, 
fight for something that counts. 
Janel Miller 
Saint Mary's College 
junior 
September 28, 2000 

Shirt serves to 
perpetuate 
stereotypes 
As members of the Women's Studies Program. we are writ­ing to express our outrage over the Junior Class Board T-shirt. This shirt perpetuates negative gender roles about the women of Saint Mary's as well as the women and men of Notre Dame. 
These are stereotypes that our entire community has con­sciously worked to overcome, and we believe that the mes­sage contained in this T-shirt is a clear step backwards for us all. 
The shirt displays disrespect for ourselves as women. It also demonstrates poor judgment on the part of all those involved in the decision to print these shirts. The Women's Studies Program takes seriously its purpose of "understanding the intellectual, social and cultural history of women, understand­ing new and old theories of gender, and understanding the institutionalized effects of gen­der. All of these stimulate a revision in the student's under­standing of herself and the reality of women's present lives developing self-awareness and knowledge of the interdepen­dence of one's own life with others." 
This means that we critically examine the role of gender in our lives and where we find that role to be unacceptable, we endeavor to change it. 
It is our hope that we all do this as members of a women's college community. It is also our hope that the Junior Class Board will reflect on its deci­sion and learn from it. 
Julia Malczynski 
Women's Studies representative Student Academic Council 
sen10r 
Katie Poynter 
Women's Studies student Sainr Mary's College 
senior 
Seprember 27, 2000 

Shirt's intent is well understood 
Does the Notre Dame community really have the wrong impression of our Saint Mary's neighbors? It doesn't appear that way, as evi­denced by the statement made by their Junior class's T-shirt. We heard you loud and clear. The damage is done, sell the shirt. In fact, we would like to see you wear them in the Notre Dame student sec­tion. 
Molly Norton 
Beth Sheehan 
Beth Rimkus 
University of Notre Dame 
juniors 
Off-campus 

w E 
ceneN D 
page 14 Friday, September 29, 2000 
How to succeed in b 
Scene presents a few--pointers for where to shop ,and what 
It's that time of year again. There's a snap in the air, the days are getting shorter and upperclassmen are begin­ning to think about life after Notre Dame. As job fairs come and go. resumes arc pol­ished and students 
Jacqueline 
prepare for their 

Browder
first job interviews. 

Arc you ready? An interview is no Assistanr small task. and can 
Scene Editor 
b1i a nail-biting experience l'or even the most con­fident stud,mL Sure, transcripts and resumes can be updated and spell­checkcd: but. what about your appear­ance'? Upon nrneting a potential employ­er, even bel'orn you extend your hand for that ever-important first handshake, the employer has made an instant judgement based solely on your appear­ance. Your glossy, folder-bound resume hasn't 1~ven reached the table yet, and the initial verdict is already in. 
Ilowever, the scales ol' fa le don' l always have lo tip against you. Dressing for an interview can be effortless (and even f'un) if you follow a fow easy steps and know where to shop. 
Men 
. 
It shouldn't come as a shock that a suit is the best way to make a favorable impression on an employer. Even il'the office attire for tlrn position you're inter­viewing is casual. you always want to dress a step up, as if preparing for your next promotion. This is key when inter­viewing. 

. 
When buying a suit, think neutral colors like light gray, navy blue, char­coal and black. Worsted wool is the standard material for dress attire and is a resilient. strong fabric, good for dura­bility. ll'you'd like assistance when shopping. one of the best places to go in town is Bernardo's. Although the costs arc a bit high ($350-$650) you're assured to find knowledgeable sales associates, quality suits and in -house 


tailoring, which is included in the price of the suit. 
. 
Others stores to try are LS Ayers. where men's suits run from $189-$309, and Marshall Fields, whose Jones of New York ($425) and Kenneth Cole ($495) collections arc among its most popular. 

. 
Mavbe a suit isn't exactly·in your gonc-for­broke-college-student price range. Have no f'car; a sport coat and tic can be perfect­ly acceptable attire for an interview as long as your shirt is pressed. your shoes are polishnd and your bnlt is the same color as your shoes. Think dorm formal. J\ navy blazer, pressed oxford shirt, tic and khakis are appropriate in most interview situations. llowcver, in this situation, bringing your interviewer a silly gift from Mcijcr isn't necessary. 

. 
One thing to remember when shopping for a suit or sport coat is that wool-poly­ester blends run about $100 cheaper than 100 per­ccnt wool varieties. Ilowevcr, we're talking polyester blend here, not 100 percent John Travolta­esque inspired polyester leisure suits. So, if you were thinking about making a statement in your Saturday Night Fever attire -don't. 

. 
Make sure your suit lits. You don't want to look like you borrowed your dad's suit or like you've outgrown your high school blazer. Alterations are very important for this reason. 

. 
If you're trying to look like a million, go for the popular Regis Philbin-inspired mono-colored suit and dress from head­


to-toe in one color. 

. Unless you're interviewing with a job in one of our National Parks, leave the backpack at home. A briefcase is a nice touch. but few college students have them, and employers don't expect you to have one. As long as your resume is kept in a neat, unmarked folder (no "WE AHE ND" or countdowns to fall break scrawled across the top) you 'II be Seems to work well for him ­and ABC's ratings. 


. Although oxford shirts are popular in an array of colors these days, it's best to stick with blue and white long­sleeved, collared shirts. Bernardo's offers several options, as well as shirts with subtle brown, gray or tan patterns Cor those who'd like to add a bit of sophisticated 11air to their ensemble. 

w E 
cen 
N D 
Friday, September 29, 2000 page 15 
~siness with style 
) wear in order to appear your best at a future job interview 

need for that just-off-Wall-Street look, 
make sure that everything matches. 
Your tic should complement your 
shirt, which in turn complements your 
suit or jacket. Check the mirror and 
then get a second opinion -no mat­
ter how good you think you look. 
Women 

. 
Okay, ladies, you have a bit more leeway clotheswise when it comes to interviewing. Whether you're wearing a tailored suit, skirt and blouse or dress, an overall rule to keep in mind is this: think conservatively. What you wore to Heartland the night before most likely isn't befitting for an inter­view. 

. 
Dark colors are usually Oattering and illustrate a professional appear­ance. Choose colors like navy, black, gray, beige or tan -colors that com­plement most skin tones. Black and navy work well with fair skin; those with olive tones look best in tans and gray. 

. 
Skirts and dresses should touch the knee, at least. Don't sport a mini­skirt. Ally McBeal can get away with it, but most of us can't. 

. 
Blouses should be kept simple ­no plunging necklines or glitter. Solid colors work best and make sure that your blouse is a color that coordinates with the rest of your outfit. 

. 
Wear panty hose. It just looks bet­ter. 

. 
Purses aren't necessary; but, if you feel the need to bring one, make sure that it's small and matches your outfit. 

. 
Close-toed shoes with a small heel work best. Choose dark colors, or, if possible, the color of your dress or suit. Your favorite shoes may be five­inch Steve Madden heels, and they may look fabulous, but save the spike heels for Friday night. No need to teeter into an interviewer's office for 


fashion's sake. 

. As mentioned before, a briefcase isn't necessary. However, bonus points if your 

line. 
. Ties should be a solid color or con­servatively patterned. Go for silk or a silk-blend. If you're going to spend money on a tic, make sure it's of good quality. However, ties featuring Looney Toons, Tobasco Sauce or South Park logos probably aren't your best bet when meeting a potential boss. 
. 
As for shoes, your Timberlands aren't going to cut it. Polished slip-ons or laced dress shoes in brown or black are your best option here. 

. 
Comb your hair. This is one time when throwing on a baseball cap isn't a viable trade-off for spending a little quality time with a brush. 


. Now that you've got everything you 
resume folder matches your outfit. 

,.. 
. 
Jewelry should be kept to a mini­mum. A watch, bracelet and small ear­rings are enough. Small, thin necklaces are fine, as long as the length of the chain is suitable to the neckline of your blouse. 

. 
Scour department stores -a suit from Marshall Fields can run anywhere from $195 for a Jones New York suit, to $285 for a Kasper suit. However, career separates are usually more affordable, and department stores are always hav­ing sales. Other stores to keep in mind are Ann Taylor, The Limited and TJ Maxx. Shopping online? Try www.jcrew.com. 

. 
Make sure vour clothes fit. If it's too tight, forget it .:_ no exceptions. If it's too big, either have it altered or find something else. It's not only what you wear, but also how you wear it that matters. 

. 
Make-up should be subtle. Less is definitely more. This is another occasion where glitter doesn't apply. 

. 
Hair should be out of your face and simply done. No need for a severe slicked back gel look, but make sure that your hair is neat and professional looking. 


Finally. BE CONFIDENT. Even if you're wearing a $1,000 suit and have a resume that will have your boss salivat­ing, no employer looks favorably on someone whose overall demeanor is indifferent or nonchalant. If you're con­fident in your appearance and go to your interview with the mind frame that -yes, I deserve this job -then you are set. 
Remember, a firm handshake and a self-assured manner complete your overall appearance. Stand up straight, look your prospective employer in the eye and realize that you look great. You're dressed like a champ and ready to take on whatever lies behind that office door. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

... 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 29, 2000 
INTERHALL MEN'S BLUE LEAGUE 
Keenan meets Alumni with playoff implications 
By JAMES VERALDI, MATT 
HARRIGAN, and TODD 
NIETO 
Sports Wrircrs 
Powerhouse. Webster defines 
it as a powerful person or team. 
The Alumni Dawgs and Keenan 
Knights dclin<• it as year after 
year of successfully dorninaling 
intcrhall football. These two 
"storied programs·· will meet 
Sunday afternoon with impor­
tant playoff implications. 
Alumni, which stands at 2-0 
behind a strong dcl"cnse, can 
clinch a playoff berth with a 
victory. Keenan, a 1-1 team 
after a disappointing loss to 
Dillon, is currently fourth in the 
Blue L11aguc standings and 
holds the final playoff spot. 
The Dawgs bring arguably the best dcfonsl~ in interhall football to the field. They are coming off of two consecutive shutouts, and looking to hold their opposition scoreless in tho regular season for a second slraighl year. 
"We will count on our defense to shut down the Keenan o!Tense and give us a chance to win tho game". said Alumni senior Brian Jochum. 
Tommy Demko, Baily Siegfried and good play from the Alumni secondary Jed the defense last week. Defensive tackle John Salvino should pro­vide a force up the middle. 
"We need to put pressure on their quarterback and force them Lo play out of their game," Jochum said. 
The Alumni offense struggled last week but is looking to get back on track. Along with an explosive, young backfield led by freshman quarterback Chris Cottingham; the Dawgs present a talented receiving core of Jon Bevilacqua, Brian Ostick and TJ Strachota. 
"We need to keep it simple and try lo run up the middle 
and spread out the defense for 
our passing. If we keep a bal­
anced attack nf run and pass 
we should have some good 
luck," said Cottingham. 
Keenan counters the Alumni 
defonse with an offense led by 
quarterback Hilly Ellsworth ll!ld 
a tailback trio of Craig Murray. 
Brian Kunitzer and Tommy 
Carr. 
The offensive line, however, is 
the key to victory for the 
Knights. 
"Our 0-linc will have to win th is game for us," Ellsworth said. 
The Knights will try and stuff the Alumni offense with a young defense. Led by Herb Girogio and Steve Gchrman, the Keenan defense came through with a huge goal line stand against Dillon last week, and is looking to do the same to the Alumni in order to give their offense a chance to win the game. 
"We need to concentrate for a full game," said Ellsworth. "We have not done it yet, and it's cost us. We will have to be a lot sharper." 
Keough vs. Dillon 
Sunday afternoon two defen­sive giants of interhall football will face off as the Keough Kangaroos meet the Dillon Big Bed to battle for playoff posi­tioning. 
This game looks to be one dominated by strong defense, seeing as neither team has allowed a single point so far this season. 
Keough had a first-week bye, but held Morrissey scoreless last week, beating them 14-0. 
Dillon's defense has been even more impressive. The Big Hed have owned their oppo­nents this year, outscoring them 30-0. They beat Stanford 14-0 in the season opener and shut down Keenan 16-0 last week. 
For either squad to win, they will have to sustain this strong defense. but one team will have to break through and put some points on the board. 

The Kangaroos of Keough are very aware of Dillon's domi­nance on both sides of the ball, and they look to prove that they can do the same. 
"Dillon has the ground game, the passing game and the defense," Keough captain Hyan Yorkery said. "We're not going to take them lightly, but we feel we can get out there and stop thorn." 
On Dillon's side of the field, it's clear that the Big Red know they must work to continue their winning ways. 
"This is an important game, and we need to keep improv­
ing," said captain Jason Visner. 
Dillon defensive end Joe Parker, a key player in the Big Red's two-game shutout. agrees. 
"We've got to keep clicking," he said. "Get the O going, keep the D going, and stop the run." 
This game marks tho mid­point of the season and will prove to be very vital in deter­mining tho playoff picture. Both Dillon and Keough stand unde­feated, but only one will remain that way after this showdown. 
"Everything is in place, we've just got to execute," Parker said. 
O'Neill vs. Stanford 
The O'Neill Angry Mob will take on the Stanford Griffins on Sunday at 1 pm at tho Stepan fields. Stanford comes into Sunday's game with an 0-2 record, but arc looking to redeem themselves on the grid­iron. 
"This is a clutch game and we are looking Lo win," Stanford player Steve Silzer said. 
Defensive Ii no man Josh Kaakua and corncrback Corey Hartmann have played a major role in tho strong Griffin defense and look to stop tho Angry Mob from scoring. 
The O'Neill Angry Mob lost its first game to the Alumni Dawgs, but the dorm hopes to win their first game of tho sea­son. Mike Brown of the Angry Mob leads tho O'Neill defense. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves chc right to cdir all classifieds for conrem wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
-
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE 3, 4 & 5-bedroom alumni-owned Shift Mgr University Park Mall High-Speed Copies, Color Copies, Look out: the SMC team is going to AM.· 232-2378 homes for rent. Please call Jason Auntie Anne's Pretzles up to $8, Binding, Fax Service, R;;sum ;;s, take all tonight. We're undefeated. LOST & FOUND PM · 288·2726 @ 240-0322 for homes close to 20·30 hrs, call Pat or Kathy 219· Business Cards, Laminating & 
campus. 271-8740 More! Note to self: stay standing. LOST ND-PU WEEKEND OUR BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL TIX. at PURDUE FLAG WAS LOST IN HOME & AWAY. THE COPY SHOP Flip, flip, flip. THE PARKING LOT ON THE (219) 289-8048 WANTED FOR SALE Lafortune Studen1 Center SOUTH SIDE OF EDISON ROAD. NO STUDENT CONVERSION TIX Phone 631 ·COPY Shhhh. Remember, I've got a meet• THE 6 FT. X 10 FT. FLAG WAS NEEDED Christian family in need of upbeat SPRING BREAK 2001 -Jamaica, Free Pick-Up & Delivery ing HAND SEWN BY MY WIFE. NO caregiver for 18-mo.-old boy in our Cancun, Barbados, More. Hiring QUESTIONS ASKED. PLEASE Dad needs 2 tix to Stanford game! home near campus. Flex. Hours & Campus Reps -2 Free Trips! Free What will you wish you had cap• That's right! Let's hear it tor the DROP OFF AT THE OBSERVER Ckrosey@ mindspring. com great pay. Call Sharyl at 237-0911 Meals• Book by 11/3. Call 1-800-tured on tape? cross-country booty call. Anywhere OFFICE BASEMENT OF SOUTH 426-7710 or sunsptashtours.com. www.icecoldvideo.com in the Midwest would be much more DINING HALL 2 ND/USC TIX -1-AIRFARE! Help! feasible But hey, you do what you THANK YOU VERY MUCH GOTO alumni.nd.edu/-ndc_satx Staffer needs to rent condo/guest Yamaha MOS digital 8-track rec. Q; How many surrealists does it have to do. And yes, we are so 
house/room in Pasedena, CA minidiscs are inc. take to screw in a lightbutb? worth it. They should feel priviliged FOR SALE, FOOTBALL TICKETS, General area tor New Year's holi­$750 080 CD qual. rec. A: Two. One to hold the giraffe and to have us knocking on their door. ALL GAMES .. 272-7233. day period exl. Cond. -th other to fill the bathtub with
TICKETS 

(12-27 to 1-2) My son is marching Pat 287-7369. brightly colored machine tools. That expo line boy is a hottie. in the Rose Bowl Parade' Would -The SinNott WANTED consider hosting your family for the 1991 lzuzu Stylus. Runs Great. Maureen, if you are reading this
FOR RENT
ND FOOTBALL TKTS USC2001 game, tickets included, 1OSK, manual. A/C, stereo, P/S. got Medieval? then we survived our 20-mile excur· 289-9280 A.LC SIZE hOIVIC.:5 AVAICAOLE ND tans only! Must sell $2200. O/b/o. 219-271 • www.nd.edu/midievat sion to Michigan. We are true run­
AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS Please email tdatnd@aol.com or 5623 or allman3@nd.edu ners! ATTENTION. Paying $50 00 per hl!p"//mmmrentals homepage com/ call 259-7544, as for Tina. Thanks A BEACH in Indiana: Take a trip ticket tor last 3 home games ONo email:mmmrentals@aol.com Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with Flipside to the Warren Dunes Noreen, thank you tor being my student conversions wanted.6 232-2595 EXPANDING INTERNET COMPA­with orthopedic mattress set and on Saturday, Sept. 30. Swimming, partner in crime. 
(219) 289-8048 NY SEEKS PEOPLE INTERESTED deluxe frame. All new, never used, hiking, volleyball, frisbee, and natur­
That Pretty Place, Bed and IN EARNING PART-TIME OR still in plastic. al clay deposits. 12 noon pickup @ Look out! SMC Pride week is SELLING Breakfast Inn has space available FULL-TIME INCOME. EASY $235. 219·862-2082. Library Circle, 12:15 pickup@ Le almost here .. are you Belle ND FOOTBALL TKTS for tootbalVparent wknds. 5 Rooms MONEY. NO EXPERIENCE NEC­Mans bus stop. Returning @ 5:30 enough? 251-1570 with private baths, $80-$115, ESSARY. CONTACT DREW AT 1992 CHEVY LUMINA, GREAT p.m. cost: FREE 
Middlebury, 30 miles tram campus. 273-1998OR BILL AT 251-1362 CONDITION. $3,500; Swimming, February, New York. VICTORY TKTS Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-272-4776. 4 hours isn't so bad. look out Big Apple, we're on our BUY-SELL 'TRADE 9487. Computer tutor in my home But what about halfway across the way! And beware, we wear our ND FOOTBALL $10+/hr. Microsoft Front Page, Web good Ool U.S.? black well. Or at least the bum in 232-0964 2 BR, 2nd fir. Apt. 525/mo. design. Flex 12+ hrs/wk. Free col• PERSONAL Talk about long-distance calling. Penn Station thought so. www.victorytickets.com Along St. Joe River feelll 273-0205. But then again, we're worth it. 
Incl. Water/Sec. Syst.rrrash Impress potential employers. Go Hillary! Beat Little Ricky! (so I BUY/SELL 288-2654 or WILL BUY USED CARS Keep in contact with friends and rel­·Booty calls can have a job when I graduate) ND TICKETS 288-2788 CALL atives. 273-3911 272-4776. Student Obusiness6 cards are now We rock on I Hello Alaina this is Sergay 
NICE HOME AVAILABLE NOW available at C's together. NO FOOTBALL TIX WANTED NORTH OF ND FOOSBALL: Wanted high-level THE COPY SHOP Is he feminine if he has a perm AM.· 232-2378 fROSELANDJ players tor tun or$. 257-4441 in Lafortune Student Genter Janel, I 
P.M -288·2726 277-3097 . evenings Ask for D 631-COPY "II be your friend. Hey GUESS WHATI 
.. 
Friday, September 29, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Panthers 
continued from page 28 
·while freshmen Chad Hiley and Justin Detter have shown flash­es or brilliance. their youth and inexperience has led to many mixed chances. 
"Nobody's really stepped up as a guy who's gonna score a dozen goals for us this year,' said /\pplc, "so we've been try­ing different guys.' 
While the Panthers have a potent offense, their defense has shown holes. Notre Dame dominated the Seton Hall defense last Friday, allowing only one breakaway goal. Against the Panthers, the Pirates managed to put the ball past the keeper three separate times. 
\\'ith an effective offense combined wilh an underrated defense that has dominated the game against ranked Connecticut and Bradley, the Irish could pull an upset. 
"We have a great opportunity to knock off a ranked oppo­nent,' said /\µpie. "We're play­ing well so I like our chances." 
MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Ramblers, Juggs meet in battle of undefeated 
By COLIN BOYIAN, MARIAH QUlNN and KATIE DEMENT Sports Writ<'rs 
Only one team is going to escape this Sunday's show­down between the 1-0 Siegfried Ramblers and the 2-0 Knott Juggernauts unde­feated. and that team is likely to have the clear advantage in the Gold League standings coming down the stretch. 
"It should be a really tough game," said Knott running back Pat Virtue. "Our defense has been plar­ing very well, so we have a great amount of confidence heading into this game." 
Defense played a key role in both Knott victories this season. In a opening day victory against Fisher, the Juggs shut out the opposi­tion to earn a 5-0 victorv. Last week against Carroll, the defense returned an 
§i£1 ¦ G@l Notre Dame Center
1•~-•for Ethics and Religious 
1m -I~ Values in Business 
Proudly Presents 
Alec Cadi 
Regional Director for the Americas, Cockerill Mechanical Industries 
The New Economics: A Challenge for the Christian Executives 
Tuesday, October 3, 2000 Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 7:00 p.m. 
Made possible by CARGILL 
interception for a touch­down and held the vermin offense scoreless in a 20-14 vidory. Both Carroll touch­downs were scored by the Vermin defense. 
But Siegfried is no slouch on defense either. In their opening day victory contest, the defense shut out Carroll's offensive attack for a 19-0 victory. 
However, with all the offensive l'irepower both teams exhibit, it would seem that a defensive stalemate is unlikely. 
Siegfried, in particular has been pleasantly surprised with contributions from run­ning back Travis Smith and tight end Tim Kearne. Smith scored all three Rambler 
touchdowns. ''As long as elleryone 
Sunday

and both play­
contributes and plays has playoff
ers con­
implica­

well we should
tributed sig­
tions for

nificantly in be OK." 
the Rabid

the Harnbler's 
Bats as

opening day 
Dean Korolis they teeter
win against 
on the fine

Carroll. Fisher captain 
I i n e

"They have 
between

been out-
an early end to the season
standing. We especially 
and playoff glory.
didn't expect so much from 
"(The playoffs] are our
Kearne in his fir~t year 
goal," Zahm captain Brian
playing for us, said 
Zant said. "We know we
Siegfried quarterback Rob 
have to win the next couple
Plum by. 
of games in order to get a
Knott is still attempting to 
good seed in the playoffs."
get their offense entirely in­
The Vermin, 0-2, will rely
synch, and rest their hopes 
on their defense in their 
for the rest of the season· on the strong arm of quarter­back Mario Suarez and the sure hands of Brian Pawlawski. 
In last year's champi­onship run, the Juggernauts suffered only one loss an year. That loss was to Siegfried. Seigfried. howev­er, doesn't believe last year's result will impact this year's game. 
"No, it's a totally different season with different play­ers. I don't think last year's results will have much of an impact on this game," said Plum by. 
Zahm vs. Carroll 
Zahm's match against Carroll t h i s 
rr===============-=========-----"'il this past Sunday. 
DOUBLE EXPOSURE 
Thomas Bowes, violin & Eleanor Alberga, piano 
Tuesd(!½ October 3, 2000 
7:30 pm • Little Theatre 
,.,;.,,..,,,,co11.,,0 
1M8_~~ 

~Nom•DAME, IN 

For ticket information contact the Saint /lk:Jry's Box Office, 2844626 
._.'"•:, '." -.",··.',..,. . . . t
gg1n _ s. 
quest for their first win of the season. 
"The defense has kept us in the games. We're work­ing on the offense," captain Geoff Polk said. 
Zahm, 1-1, on the other hand, is looking for an all around game from their team. 
"Our defense pretty hard hitting , and our offense comes up with big plays," Zant said. "We're a pretty good blend of both." 
Carroll will rely on line­backer/receiver Kraig Kottemann and quarterback Mike DeMuniz in their quest for their first mark in the win column, while Zahm will count on quarterback Mike Burke, tight end Chris Bystedt, and defensive line­men Peter Countryman and Brock Domin to lead them to victory. 
The Vermin and the Rabid Bats will face off this Sunday at 3 pm on Stepan field. 
Fisher vs. Sorin 
Survival of the fittest is sure to come into play this Sunday when the Fisher Waves take on the Sorin Otters at 1 p.m. 
Fisher's season started out with a disappointing 5-0 loss against Knott in their season opener. The Waves managed to redeem themselves with a 22-14 victory over Zahm 
"The Fisher strength is our defense and our running game," Fisher captain Dean Korolis said. 
_.unday the offense was able to execute against Zahm in a 2-point conver­sion that lead to the Wave victory. With both aspects of the Fisher team coming together, Korolis is ready for the game against Sorin. 
Sorin's game opener this Sunday started out on the right foot. A 21-7 victory against St. Edwards gave the Otters a strong start. Sorin captain Mike Crowe is proud of the "strong defen­sive play against St. Edwards." 
The Waves and the Otters seem to be on the same plane when it comes to tak­ing advantage of their oppo­nent's mistakes, which has led both teams to victory. 
Opposing penalties  have  
been  beneficial  to  both  
teams.  

"We won't stray too far from the game plan and as long as we execute we should be alright." Crowe said. 
"As long as everyone con­tributes and plays well we should be OK," Korolis said. 
HELLO, ~URSE R;TC5E7 

legiate Olympic Medal Race is on! .the taJly with the GE College Medal 
' -~oJ_j in rrost DruJ Stores or via cm '...a:> site 
, only on. t,IB@IYm.Pica..c.gm.
~,' :,~ ·,. ~f:.. . :· ..'.' _.._, . . 

~ . :~L,:l. in m:st Drt.g Stores or V1a cur va) Slte 
• @ www.AirborneHealth.com 
' ]il or call 1-800-590-9794 .. ..,"., ". ·.:."'.::.:.:~~ ::~: r:::~; . c. c.RIOJ u:irtl1tlv>t«, ti. .. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 29, 2000 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Whirlwinds and Chaos clash in battle of titans 
r 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK, JOE 
LICANDRO and BRYON 
KONK 
Sports Wrircr• 
If there were one game to attend 

lhL,; season, the dash of titans that 
is Welsh versus Cavanaugh would 
be it. These unbeaten squadc; have 
bliv.ed through their Blue League 
opponents on the shoulders of two 
very stingy dofonses 
The CJrn()S of Cavanaugh sport a perfect 3-0 rl'cord and a perfect defense; they have not given up a singlt? point all season. Helying on a swarming pass rush and airtight coverage, the Chaos is looking to make the Whirlwinds their next vic­
ilin. 
"On defense. we're solid across 
the board,'' receiver Melissa 
Marcotte said. "They're so good 
they even give the offense confi­
dence." 
This season, the Welsh Whirlwinds would be better described as the Mercy Rule Queens. Three of their four wins have ended early. and their defense has given up only six points all year. 
"We have an all around strong defense, and we emphasize team­work," captain Maria Feilmeyer said. 
On Sunday, Welsh ""ill be missing the services of their defensive coaching sta.fT, as well as standout defonsive lineman Christina Quillan. 
But Feilmeyer isn't worried. 
"We'll step up and play our defense," she said. "We have a lot of enthusiasm." 
Feilmeyer could not point to any single thing to explain the Whirlwind<;' success this year. 
"Our team is well balanced, and we have so many standoul'i," she 
said. 
She did, however, recognize the strong play of freshman center of Mary Murphy and wide receiver Vanessa Richon. 
"Center is an import.ant position in women's interhall. and Mary's really stepped up," Feilmeyer said. 
Marcotte said Cavanaugh did not plan to make any special changes to their game plan for Sunday. 
"We'll make them adjust to us," she said. 
PMgbom vs. Pasquerilla East 
Pangborn and Pasquerilla East will battle it out on Sunday as each lcxiks to propel itself into the playoff pictun\ 
Although Pangborn is 0-3 and Pasquerilla East is 1-2, uach team still has a slim chance of making tile playolls ifthey win the remainder of 1heir games. 
Pasquerilla East is coming off ofa tough loss last night to Lyons 6-0. According to captain Stacy Leicht, Pasqucrilla East must regroup and improve immediately tu have a chance on Sunday. 
"We realize that the game with Pangborn L-; critical for our chances to make the playoffs." she said. 
Hou.5es for Re11t 
l BR HOUSES l 1~ N. Walnut $495/Mth 1210 Cedar St. $450!!\tth :Z BEDROOM HOUSES J337 Frenio11t $550 /MtJ1 1 DR APTS -MISHWAKA 314 WeUs-Sl00/Wk 
1-800-3Z8· 7368 

A Divis1on ofCUlver Development 
"Our whole team needs to come 
together and improve both offon­
sively and defensively to have a 
chance to win." 
Despite a 35-0 loss, Pangborn 
had some positive moments during 
the game coming up with a few 
interceptions. Pangborn is still try­
ing to work out the kinks from their 
new defensive scheme. 
Captain Erin Piroutek believes 
that her young team has shown 
some steady improvement in each 
game despite their record. 
"We're still trying to implement 
our new defensive scheme." she 
said. ·~rhe game against Pasquerilla 
East is a good chance for us to 
bounce back after tonight's loss. At 
this point, we're really just looking 
for a win to build on." 
The winner of the game on Sunday will certainly gain some momentum down the stretch. While both teams possess less than desir­able records. neither of them has totally been eliminated from the playofT picture. A win on Sunday may be the turning point each team is looking for. 
Lewis vs. Lyons 
Lm~is vs. Lyonslt will be youth versus youth on the field at noon Sunday at McGlinn fields as the Chicks of Lewis Hall take on the Lions of Lyons Hall. 
The young Lyons squad ·will have to deal with the losses of several important players on Sunday due to injuries and prior commitments, forcing many key players to per­form on both sides ofthe ball. 
"The first three games have been a great learning experience for this young team, with the team making strides," said Lyons coach Michael Barranda. "Unfortunately freak injuries have set in, and Lisa Thomas and Roxy Trevino will play both sid<',5 of the field, along with a handful ofother players." 
Barranda faces the challenge of bringing together a broken team via simplicity. 
"We have simplified both our offense and defense for our frag­mented team," he said. "Nevertheless, the girls know that they can turn some heads." 
Lewis captain Katherine IIarcourt also feels that now is the time for her young, but relatively healthy, team to step up. 
"I feel that our team is on the brink of playing to its capabilities," we're really looking for the big plays "We've had some great offensive Harcourt said. "In our last game on Sunday." drives and we have a strong against PE, the difference was that "We need to score a bunch of defense, we just need to convert PE had a big play and we didn't, so points on Sunday," Harcourt said. inside the red zone." 

lfkit-.:: a 289-5080
~aB'.>~-Announ~~ the Foll::ng Intro~~tory Off:s_of.. 
e) rro,11.om r s26 , r s59 , r s6a , r s69 , I Aveda I I Cut & I I ,~10,. CUI & s1r~ I I Perm. Cut I I Hilites & I 
L ~= .J L ?Y.!;_ .J ~":_PT!.~!!J L ~z.!e..J C;_u~lty:!J 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
NOT VALID FOB SPIRAL PERMS, LONG OR TINTED HAIR ADD$ I 0, No OTHER DISCOUNTS APPLY. OPEN SOME EVENINGS. ATRIA SALON RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REFUSE SEHVICE. TO ANY CLIENT WHOSE HAIR CONDITION IS UNSUITABLE. 
Valid with the Following Stylists Only: Sarah, Vicki, & Connie 
-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must Be Presented To Receptionist Before Services Arc Performed (Certain Restrictions Apply) 1;~57 N. Ironwood Dr. Offer Expires 10/rn/2000 
-g·ging rights. 
oleglate Olympic Medal Aace is onl .the taJly with the GE CoUege Medal ·,~ . er, only on t,PCQlympics&.am. 
#;~.. . . 

page 19 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 29, 2000 

Italian/Sicilian .J~~\~Trattoria 
Dining . \/ ' . \ 5S. Michigan St Fresh prepared ~ers, / rSouth Bend, IN 46601 Pizza, Beverages ,,_,.,..___.-,.,)J 219-233-1000 
New Yorks longest running Saturday
comedy revue Sept. 30, 2000 8pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Mv~D 
' c;~THE ~8,.­
~tfOTRED-,e, ltl 
FOR TICKET INFORMATION CONTACT THE 5A1Nf MAR.Y'S COLLEGE 60X OFFICE AT 
284-4626 
lnte11ace, 2DDD 
Come see what it's all about! 

Come join us for dinner and discussion on some of the biggest issues in our nation today. You don't want to miss it! This month's theme ;s "Interracial Relationships in the Hispanic/Latino Communities" This should be an exciting discussion and everyone, hey this means you!, is invited. We pray you'll be there!! Wednesday, October 4 
0 
At the CSC From 5:30 to 7:00 pm Please RSVP at 631-6841 by Monday, October 2 
, ' 

Sponsored by Multicultural Student Programs and Services 
' 
~~ 
• ' ' 1 
' '/ 


Auditoriu1n, Hesburgh Cent:er Cor International Studies University o:f Notre Dame 
Sponsored by: The India A"'sociation or Notre Dame The Asinn l11dinn Clns,.knl Music Society of"Michinnn Office oflnterru>fionnl Student Services nnd Activities The .Joan D. Kro•· i<ostitute for T11te,·11ntio11nl Peace Studies 
<::;cneral Au1nission: $10 N 0/Sl\ilC Faculty: $5 All Students: F1-ce 
~~ ~-~----------­

Friday, September 29, 2000

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Banshees focus on key game against Shamrocks 
By LAUREN CONTI, CHRlS 
FEDERICO and JOHN 
BACKSIK 
Sports Writers 
The Breon-Phillips Banshees are focused on the moment. The moment, for now, is Sunday's game against the McGlinn Shamrocks. 
"We're just trying to win games as we go," said Banshee quarterback 
Katie McFarland. "The playoffs are a definite goal, but we still have a couple tough games left in the regu­lar season. For right now, we're just focused on McGlinu." 
Sunday's game could be viewed as the deciding batlle in the war for a playoff berth within the Women's Gold League. Currently, the Shamrocks are 0-2-1, and the Banshees are 1-1-1. With only two regular-season games remaining after this one, a win for either team could go a long way towards securing a spot in the play­offs. 
"We definitely think we have a shot at (the playoffs(." McGlinn captain Jamie Glasser said. "We've improved exponentially in every game we've played, and with this game on Sunday, if we can win it, we think we can go 3-2-1 and make the playoffs." 
Breen-Phillips has a shot, as well. The Banshees plan on shaking things up a bit on Sunday in hopes of gaining the competitive edge. 
"We decided after this last game to switch the offense up a little bit," head BP coach Corey Timlin said. "I think the offense we'd been playing worked better last year. 
"We were playing it tight, and it just wasn't working," he continued. "This year, we arc less cxp1iricnced, but also a lot faster." 
"[Breen Phillips] looked pretty strong against Farley on Tuesday," Glasser said. "So that's an indicator for us 
<j)~ 
(Good Morning
:Jufid) 
by Anne-Marie MacDonald A comedy of 
alchemic proportions Directed by Wendy Arons 
Wednesday, Oct. 4 ...... 7:30 pm Thursday, Oct. 5 .......... 7:30 pm Friday, Oct. 6 .............. 7:30 pm Saturday, Oct. 7 .......... 7:30 pm Sunday, October 8 ...... 2:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $9 • Seniors $8 • Students $6 Tickets are available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. For MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128 
that it's going to be a pretty tough game. 
"But their defense has a couple of weak spots I think we can capitalize on," she added. "And hopefully come out with the win." 
Breen-Phillips player Jennifer Wahoske had a simi­lar attitude. 
"We'll expect them to be tough, but that's our attitude about every game," she said. "l think their record is com­parable to ours. We're not afraid." 
The game will take place at 5 p.m. on McGlinn Field. 
Farley vs. Off-Campus 
With the interhall football season already more than half l'inished, it is time for teams to begin considering playoff implications in their games. 
One important game is the battle this Sunday between Off-Campus and Farley Hall at 4 p.m. on McGlinn Field. Both teams have struggled out of the starting gate, and a loss Sunday may be the fatal blow that knocks them out of the playoffs. With the top four teams in each division advancing, Off-Campus and Farley will be scrapping to stay alive in the standings. 
Off-Campus (1-0-2) will rely once again on their stingy defense which has allowed only six points in their three games this season. They are led by defensive backs Erin Price and Anna Benjamin, who come off a solid game in which each had an intercep­tion to prevent a touchdown and preserve the scoreless tie. 
"Our offense struggled against Badin," Off-Campus captain Marita Keane said. "lf we want to win, we will need to put some points on the board." 
Their quarterback, Jami Stouffer, returns to action Sunday after suffering a leg injury Tuesday that sidelined her for the second half. 
Farley (1-3) desperately needs a win to have a shot at the playoffs. Team captain 

2000-2001 Season 
Notre Dame Film, Television, 
and Theatre presents 
oodnighl 
Rebecca Glatz sees the need 
for much improved execution 
on both sides of the ball. 
"On offense, we need to complete more passes, and on defense, we need to tackle better," she said. 
The Finest will look for a big day from quarterback Jenny Geraci and wide receivers Reth McKay and Lindsey Kosinski if they are to overcome Off-Campus's stingy defense and have a chance at making the playoffs. 
Pasquerilla West vs. Walsh 
McGlinn field will be rock­ing this Sunday when two of the top teams in the Women's Gold Division square off. The Purple Weasels of PW (2-0-1) take on a team of Wild Women from Walsh (2-0-2). as each team looks to give the other its first loss of the sea­son. 
Sophomore quarterback Lauren Walsh will lead the Wild Women on offense. A young, but talented offensive line consisting of freshmen Sarah Cunningham and Colleen Gannon and sopho­more Jen Schmidt will protect Walsh. 
Jennifer Lynch provides a spark down the field at tight end for the Wild Women. Lynch scored the game-tying touchdown in Walsh's 6-6 tie with McGlinn on Friday night. 
Captain Melissa Beiting leads the Walsh defense, along with seniors Rebecca Craig and Angela Polsinelli on the defensive line. 
Walsh coach Steve Dillenburger is looking for­ward to Sunday's game. 
"We know PW will be a tough opponent," 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS i. 
201 SECURITY BUILDING 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
T: 631-5882 Fax: 631-5711 

ROME 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Professor Michael Francis, Assistant Provost Campus International Development 

cinema@thesnite 
presents 
FROM THE DIRECTOR OF "LEAVING LAS VEGAS"
TIMECODE 
4 CAMERAS. NO EDITS. REAL TIME. 
www.sony.com/timecode 
Fri. & Sat. 8:00 & 10:00 p.m. 
Presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/~cothweb 
Dillenburger said. " We need 

to improve on Tuesday's per­
formance, but we're not going 
to try anything new." 

The Purple Weasels have had their share of close games this season, and this contest won't be any easier. Leading the way for PW are ·co-captain Amanda Gallen at wide receiver and freshmen 
quarterback Leslie Schmidt. 
Playing offense and defense 
for PW, Gallen scored a cru­

cial extra point and made a 
game-saving interception in last Sunday's 7-6 win over McGlinn. 
The Purple Weasel defense will be led by co-captain Kelly Dries at middle-linebacker. The PW secondary will be controlled by junior Erin Schulte and sophomore Jill Houghton at cornorback. 
"I like to compare our defense tu that of the '85 Bears," PW coach Tony Baldea said. "Kelly Dries reads the offense like Mike Singletary and pulls flags like Otis Wilson." 
Tuesday October 3, 2000 
4:45 PM 102 DeBartolo 

Friday, September 29.2000 The Obrerver . SPORTS page 21 
Kuenster 
continued from page 28 
needed to step up her racing. 
"Big East cross country last year was the race where l felt for the first time that I could be good," Kucnster said. 
Connelly added, "Over the last two years, we've seen the biggest improvements. She had a little bit of success and now she's more confident, and she's taken her running to another level. She doesn't put limitations on herself. She just goes out and competes." 
The Wheaton, Ill., native remembers thinking warm-ups were hard ac;; a freshman. Now she's one of the team's fastest 
runners. 
"I use her as an example all the time of how much you can improve," Connelly said. "Our freshman class, I think all those kids ran faster than Chrissy coming out of high school. Now here's a kid who they're looking up to." 
Now in her final year of com­petition. Kuenster hopes to give them a little bit more to strive for. She's aiming to break the 18-minute mark in cross coun­try and help the Irish return to national'>. 
''I'd like our team tc, qualify for nationals. It's going to be tough, but I think it's still realis­tic," Kuenster said. "Individually, I would just like to get faster and make sure I'm doing my part to get to nation­als." 
As she works to keep her own training on the right path, she's showing her teammates that hard work pays off. 
"She's a great role model for everyone, because she's so ded­icated to the sport," senior run­ner Erin Olson said. "It's been incredible. She's improved more than anyone on our team." 
Ironwood family Dentistzy 
271-7500

/ 
RUSSELL A MURPHY. DDS 
1639 NOR.TH IRONWOOD DRIVE SUITE 109 SOUTH BEND. IN 46635 

10% COLLEGE STUDENT DISCOUNT 


WIN THIS BUS! 
Play the Airborne College Trivia Game! 
,~ 
You could win an actual 
Gigantic Vintage 1964 
Crown School Bus! 
,... __ _ 
~l~kme 
Just browse your school paper every week from Sept. 29th to Dec 8th. 
HOW?: 

Or visit AirborneHealth.com 
and look for ads like this. -., Then decode the popular reference from movies, T.V. and current events. The person who gets the most references wins the vintage 80 seat School BUS. 
EXAMPLE: "Marcia, Marcia, Marcia" refers to what?? If you said, The Space Shuttle' you'd be WRONGG. 
Of course. You watched TV your whole life, and know it's THE BRADY BUNCH!! Allright!! And remember, some of this trivia is VERY obscure, so put your thinking caps on!! 
mm mm READ THE",8MALl:PRtN:P½m,m'nt 
•n 
::;•::i6 "4:~'.Zil-,y:~~t.~~,._.,., ..,;;,,:;:.1¥~:-:,:• 
Go to www.AirborneHealth.com and check out how to play. And remember, have a nice day!! 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish play Wildcats in Fluitt Invitational 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Spom Wmer 
The Irish men's tennis team's season debut in last weekend's Tom Fallon Invitational might have been a tune-up for the 2000-20001 year. What they showed, however, was that the Notre Dame fans better tune in, or they will miss out on some exciting tennis competition. 
After compiling a tot.al of 42 sin­gles and doubles wins in the sea­son opener, the squad will get to prove if they are serious con­tenders for the national spotlight when they head to Lexington, Ky. to participate in the Charles Fluitt Invitational over the weekend. 
Notre Dame. is set to play Kentucky on Friday, Baylor and Harvard on Saturday, and Fresno State on Sunday. The Bulldogs of Fresno State., who finished last season ranked 15th with a 24-5 record, will most likely give the Irish the toughest battle out of the four matches they are scheduled to play. 
Fourteenth-ranked singles play• 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Top Midwest teams travel to Eck Classic 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 
Mer battling injury and fatigue to get to the finals last weekend in Baltimore, senior Michelle Dasso will get a rest as the remaining Irish women's tennis team will take on some of the top teams in 
}:ARCIA, MARCIA, MARCIA! 
;*4tRB0RNt, 
~ EF1'P!RVE~CEN1' COLD FOFtMUlA 
~ Sold in most Drug Stores or via our web site ~ . . www.AirnorneHealth.com • 
~ ~ or call 1-800-590--9794 I ..~ 'A iliil~':.1,£ C(ltD RD$'l'UI!' •C, {,H]JX), ltor'tbtraolt. n. 
er Peter Luszak, who was defeat­ed in the first round of the 2000 NCAA Singles Championship and ended the season with a 32-14 mark. stands as the biggest threat in the Bulldog arsenal. 
"I would think Fresno State !would be the toughest competi­tion]," Irish head coach Bob Bayliss said, "And Kentucky's good. Kentucky's generally a top 20 team. Harvard has been a top 20 team, but they are generally right in there, and Baylor we've played. but we'll play them on dif­fcreo t courts and it might be tougher to beat them." 
Kentucky and Harvard, which wrapped up last season with respective rankings of 37 and 56, and Haylor, a team the Irish matched up well against last weekend, don't look to be easy kill for the Irish. However, the level of play that Notre Dame exhibited in its season debut demonstrated that Bayliss has put together a team that needs no repair. 
"If it isn't broken, why fix it?" Bayliss said. Bayliss will pencil in virtually 
the Midwest. 
The Irish will compete in the Eck Classic here in South Bend. The Eck classic will feature Big Ten teams Northwestern, Purdue, Iowa, Wisconsin and Ohio State, as well top teams from all over the region. 
The Irish women look to contin­ue to improve this week after a strong performance in Baltimore that was highlighted by the sin­gles play of freshmen Caylan Leslie, Emily Neighbours and Alicia Salas. 
"This week's tournament will be stronger than last week and it will be great for our girls to go up against this type of competition," head coach Jay Louderback said. "With Dasso and [Becky] Varnum not playing it will give all our players a chance to play against 
the top players from our region." 
certification can still become qualified to request trans­
portation 

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 1 
7:00 PM ROOM 124 CENTER foR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
the same lineup for the week­end's competition, with the exception of freshman Matt Scott who is sidelined with a hip flexor injury. 
"We'll pretty much stick with the same lineup," Bayliss said. "Matt Scott has a hip flexor [injury]. He came out yesterday to practice and really couldn't go. so we'll have to see how he is. Everyone else looks healthy." 
Aaron Talarico will most likely represent the Irish in the No.1 singles position, followed by Casey Smith, Javier Taborga, Luis Haddock-Morales, Andrew Laflin and Brian Farrell. 
Laflin and Farrell would move up a notch from their regular positions to the fifth and sixth spots respectively while Scott is sidelined. 
Smith and Haddock-Morales have yet to be defeated this sea­son. both standing with a sparkling 4-0 singles mark. The two also teamed up during last weekend's tournament in doubles and knocked off all four teams they faced. 
The ninth-ranked duo of 
Senior Kim Guy is also excited about the tournament and the chance to play against some of the top teams. 
"Hopefully we will put .out as good a showing as last week," Guy said. "Northwestern and Iowa are bringing all their players and they are fully loaded." 
With three singles wins and a finals appearance in a major tournament, the Irish women appeared to be almost flawless last weekend, Louderback believes there is always some­thing to work on. 
One major concern from last week was the play of the Irish doubles teams. The highly touted doubles partners Michelle Dasso and Becky Varnum lost in the second round and Katie Cunha and Kim Guy lost in the semi­finals at the Maryland 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS VEHICLE CERTIFICATION SESSION 
-

Don't miss your opportunity to be eligible to request vehicles 
Students who have not attended.a
·=1 session tor renewal or csc vehicle 
Taborga and Talarico will stand atop the doubles lineup for the Irish, looking to add to their two wins on the season. Both of the Irish juniors are aware that being in the top 10 national rankings brings added distractions, but representing the Irish keeps them motivated to bring home tho wins. 
"We feel a commitment, not only because we are nine, but because we are playing No.1 for Notre Dame." Taborga said. "So many players wanted to come to Notre Dame. They get the chance to play against the Notre Dame number one team they play at a higher level always." 
He added, "It's not being ranked nine that brings the pres­sure, its playing No.1 for Notre Dame." 
Following Taborga and Talarico will be the undefeated team of Smith and Haddock-Morales in the second position. The makeup of the third doubles team hinges on the availability of Scott. Senior Ashok Raju will most likely pair with junior James Malhame if Scott's injury persists. 
Invitational. While mostly concen­trating on singles in pre-season practices the team worked a lot on doubles play this week in effort to improve their perfor­mance. 
"Hopefully our doubles will play better, we struggled a bit last week," Louderback said. 
"We definitely could work on doubles," said Kim Guy. "We feel that we have a strong doubles team and hopefully we can redeem ourselves this weekend." 
The Eck Classic will mark the first time the Irish play at home this season and will be another step in the learning process for the talented freshmen. The fresh­men who had only one loss between them last week hope they can shake off the jitters of their first tournament and come out strong early in this one. 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 29, 2000 
VOLLEYBALL 
Surging Belles take on Alma College 
avenge the previous loss,
By CECILIA OLECK 
freshman Leigh-Ann Sports Writer 
Matcsich said. 
"This is the third time 
Flying high after grabbing we're playing [Alma}." their first two victories of Matesich said. "We're just the season. the Belles vol­looking to play strong and leyball team achieve a hopes to capi­victory."
"We 're just looking to
talize on their If e a d success. Facing play strong and coach Julie off against Schroeder-
achieve a victory"
MIAA opponent Bick said Alma College t h a t on Sunday. the Leigh-Ann Mateslch although Belles hope to freshman Alma is now 
add another 
victory to the 
win column. 
But that won't be easy with an opponent they've already lost to twice. Facing Alma on the Belles' home court last Sunday. tho Helles dropped the match to Alma in straight sets. Their recent success however, has made the Belles a dif­ferent team, players said. 
"The last two wins will give us morn motivation and encouragement," junior co-captain Angie Meyers said. "It wasn't physical.It was mental. These wins will give us the mental capability to win." 
Saint Mary's believes floor coverage will be key to a victory this weekend. 
"We need to cover," Meyers said. "They are incredible blockers, but if we have good coverage we could win." 
The Scots enter the con­test with a 5-1 record in the MIAA and an 11-9 record overall. The Belles will face a challenge in Alma setter Jamie Lippert, who was the MIAA Player of the Week for Sept. 17. Meyers. the Belles' outside hitter and defensive spe­cialist. was also nominated the same week. 
The Belles' renewed sense of confidence and improved communication on the court should serve them well as they look to in second place in the MIAA her 
team is ready to play them. 
"I expect my volleyball players to set challenging goals for themselves and train and play at the level necessary to achieve those goals," she said. 
,
' .Sold in nest ll:\.g"Stores or via rur w;i, site : ~ www.AirborneHealth.com
JSi/ or call 1-800-590-9794 
C • ;..:, ;..)I..;::~ :!:.: ,;:r.::·, ' T. PCCHS. s.r .. a. 
EFFER'IESCENT COLD fORMUU. 
• . SJld in m:lSt mg Stme:3. or via rur W:h site 
· ~ www.AirborneHealth.com ..Iii{ or call 1-800-590-9794 
i ". ;/\.<,.,.;, • ._ ,.~..... ' It.. 5~. ScTnric-i-..:,,. 0, 

-2 Bdrm Apts Available -Student Leases Available -Under $500 per Month -4 Blocks From Campus -2nd Semester Availability 
"The Best Value In Off Campus Living" 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish tee off at Invitational 
By MATT CASSADY 
Spom Writer 

Notre Dame golf comes into full swing this week as the Irish prepare for the Northern Invitational which tees off Saturday in Champaign. Ill. 
The team started its season Sept. 8 with a fourth place fin­ish at Wisconsin's Badger Invitational in Madison, Wisc. Junior Steve Hatay finished tied for the lead in the tournament, shooting a three round total of 
212. Sophomore Brandon Lunkc finished 23rd with a score of 222, freshman Peter Rivas 38th with a score of 225, and senior Adam Anderson fin­ished 73rd with a score of 240. 
Irish coach George Thomas looks for Ratay to continue his leadership on and off the course for the remainder of the season. 
"[Hatay] has held his own and then some, and I expect more of the same," Thomas said. 

The Irish followed up the fourth place finish with a ninth place finish at the PSI Net College Invitational in Minneapolis. Minn. Again, Hatay led the team with a 14th place finish shooting a three round total of 225. Senior Alex Kent followed him in 24th scor­ing 229. Senior Pat Schafller shot a 232 and freshman Peter Hivas scored 242, rounding out the scoring members of the Irish squad in 35th and 57th, respectively. 
This week, the Irish face their stiffest task to date. 
"This should be our toughest tournament of the year," Ratay said. "Facing all the teams from across the Midwest should be a good measuring stick of just how good we arc." 
The Irish could get a lift from a freshman this weekend. Thomas announced Thursday night that Gavin 1-<erlic has earned the right to travel with the team to Champaign. 
"Gavin Ferlic has played well enough to travel with the team and I think it should be a (good] experience for him," Thomas said. 
While the team may get a lift from Ferlic, it will be Ratay who leads them into battle. llis scoring average of' 71.73 in the fall of 1999 was more than six and a half strokes lower than that of his freshman year. This, he said, is a credit to experi­ence. 
"[The improved scoring aver­age) came from working on improving all areas of my game," he said. "And getting used to college golf really helped me get bdtcr." 
According to Thomas. the entire team will need to get bet­ter to fare well this weekend. 
"[The competition) will be from the Big Ten and MAC con­ferences. so it will be a very competitive field," he said. "But the kids have been working hard and making some improvements. so (we'll see how it turns out.I" 



New to the Neighborhood and to ffl f' ' 
ar '"'SUPER MARkETs 

Seeking welcoming committee. Stop by Martin's Super Markets and help us welcome Starbucks Coffee to our neighborhood. It's right in the store. 


------~-----------------~--------------------------­
Martin's Super Markets #10 
fflartinr 
~ERMARkas 


+
Buy one [Grande Espresso beverage], : get one for afriend. 

f 

I Cl2000SlalbudtsCofmlCorl"9Jll'Al~gh~1!$--R,dm9bJ,on~alMartln'l&.!»r Malks~ 2081 2081 South Bend Avenue, South Bend 46637 I I SoU1h Boncl liie., Soull1 llaffl!. Ona bMraga Pit JllQOII par i1!II wnt, llisCOll)Oll. Cannot be combined wlh I Olhwllllers.Nocaslrni!UI. ~10,11-2000 I.ITllonoilNiitn,, 
'------------------------------------~--------------' 
0 2000 SlaM.! Colfae Company. All rlghlS reserved. Printed -1 !Ire VSA 


Friday, September 29,2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish open Big East season at home this weekend 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
$pons Writer 
Notre Dame volleyball will open Hig East play at home this wr.ek­cnd, hosting Villanova today and Georgetown on Sunday. 
The Irish, who are 9-4, are coming off of four weekend tour­naments in the past month. including three held at the Joyce Center. Notre Dame gathered lwo titles in the tournament series, including the Shamrock lnvitati.onal and the Lady SeminoleVolleyball Classic. 
"I think we have confidence going into these games, especially since we've played good teams already. I mean, we've played No.1 Nebraska already and they're the best out there," senior co-captain Denise Boylan said. 
Senior co-captain Christi Girton was recently named co-Big East Player of the Week for her 
2-0 by the end of the weekend," two tournament titles. 
!§ I j said _B_oy_l_a_n_.----=~-­
1 -GardensID-omer RunIArrangements available for around $10 I 2oooAw,.::NEENS:·:::R::::E:::c:: 
PROGRAM

;I StudentAppreciation Day is 1st I~ 3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK 
I I ' PANCAKt~~EAKFAST _ l 
, Monday ofevery month-get $2 roses and I rJ\ SATURDAY, sEPTEMBER 30-it' 
I buy 2get Ifree on all otherflowers 
~ 
II ~ Basement: Lafortune Student CenterI Open: Monday-Saturday, 12:30-5:30 pm
h?&"&~"&"&~~'e:."R"&'0:'0:"R'0;'0;~'R"R'0c."&~~"&"&~~~"&~'0:"&~<&"&r&.~~'0,.'0.,'0c,"&~ ._______________________, 

CHICAGO HARTFORD LONDON NEW YORK SAN FRANCISCO TOKYO VADUZ ZURICH 
Find out why William Blair & Company is right for you. 
Come to our Company Presentation Monday, October 2, 2000 McKenna Hall Room 100 Center for Continuing Education 7 :30 pm -9:30 pm or Contact Jennifer Pierce at jp2@wmblair.com 
William Blair & Company, L.L.C. is an Equal Opportunity Employer 
impressive performance in last weekend's game against No. 23 Loyola Marymount and the Golden Dome Invitational in which the No. 24 Irish faced Wyoming and No. 3 Colorado State. Girton racked up 49 kills and 34 digs with a career-high of 23 kills in the win over Loyola Marymount. 
Notre Dame earned wins over Loyola Marymount (15-9, 16-14, 15-17, 16-14) and Wyoming (15­1, 15-5, 15-8), but fell to Colorado State (7-15, 7-15, 14-16). 
Junior Kristy Kreher leads Notre Dame with 172 kills this season, including 32 kills in the Loyola Marymount malch to earn the record for most kills in a four­game match. 
The Irish are more focused on this, their team play, than on the other team. 
"It depends on how we play more than how the other team is doing. If we can play our game 
I = 1i.~!~{s~~:~~1~:;~~R 
lj./;; REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 
~ $6.00 IN ADVANCE AND$7.00 DAY OF RACE ; DEADLINE FOR ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS 9/29/00 AT 5:00PM 
STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS
I 

T-SHIRTS DONATED BY THE ND ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
I ~~ -~~ 
then it will all be fine," Boylan said. 
Notre Dame will face Villanova today at 7 p.m. The Wildcats arc now 6-9 with seven previous loss­es out of the seven ganrns played against the [rish.Villanova is com­ing off a win over Bucknell (15­13, 14-16, 15-4, 15-5). 
Breen Eddinger will pose a threat as she leads Villanova in 2000 with 118 kills. 
"Georgetown is one of the top teams in the conference and it will be good to play them," Boyland said. "Especially after we've already played some of the top teams in the nation." 
The Irish will be out for revenge against Georgetown at Sunday's 2 
p.m. face-off. Of its lO past matches, the Hoyas have wonjust one in a Big East tournament upset last year (15-11, 15-10, 15­
8). 

Kiran Gill leads Georgetown this year with 175 kills while the Hoyas' freshman Jennifer Ward is on a streak. earning Big Easl 

How do youqualify for 
E the 
d
arne 

Income Tax 
Credit? 

If you work hard but don't earn a high income, you may qualify to pay less tax, no tax or even get a refund. Yet some people who are eligible for EITC fail to claim it. 
If you have two qualifying children and earned under $30,580onthejobin 1999, you may be able to claim up to a S3,816 credit. 
With one qualifying child and earnings under $26,928, or no child and earnings less than $10,200, smaller credits are available. Actual amounts depend on total income and other qualifications. 
Call 1-800-829-3676 for our free IRS Publication 596, 
Earned lncom! Credit. 
IRS Web site: www.irs.gov 

Rookie of the Wer.k honors last
r~~~~~~~£'£'£'%"'1 week. ~ "I think we are going to do 
LIZ LANG/The Observer

I I extremely well and that we'll be After four weekend tournaments, the Irish are 9-4 including
I . Ir·1 sh ~ 
.. . 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 24 
Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Nebraska  3-0  1,743  
2  Florida Slate  4-0  1,732  
3  Florida  4-0  1,603  
4  Virginia Tech  3-0  1,491  
6  Kansas Slate  4·0  1,484  
6  Washington  3-0  1,426  
7  Clemson  4-0  1,223  
8  use  J·O  1,181  
9  Michigan  3-1  1,160  
10  Miami (Fla.)  2·1  1,079  
11  Tennessee  2-1  1,043  
12  Ohio State  4-0  995  
13  Texas  2-1  747  
14  Oklahoma  3·0  740  
15  UCLA  3-1  727  
16  TCU  3·0  640  
17  Wisconsin  3·1  594  
18  Michigan State  3-0  583  
19  Auburn  4-0  545  
20  Oregon  3-1  457  
21  So. Mississippi  2-1  418  
22  Purdue  3-1  414  
23  South Carolina  4-0  291  
24  llllnols  3-1  268  
25  Georgia  2·1  199  
ESPN/USA Today p oll  
team  record  poirits  
1  Nebraska  3-0  1,455  
2  Florida State  4-0  1,424  
3  Florida  4-0  1,346  
4  Virginia Tech  3-0  1,274  
5  Kansas State  4-0  1,233  
6  Washington  3-0  1,135  
7  USC  3·0  989  
8  Clemson  4-0  973  
9  Michigan  3-1  964  
10  Ohio Slate  4-0  939  
11  Tennessee  2-1  818  
12  Mlaml(F1a.)  2·1  774  
13  Texas  2-1  639  
14  Wisconsin  3-1  610  
15  Michigan State  3·0  609  
16  Oklahoma  3·0  552  
17  UCLA  3·1  541  
18  TCU  3-0  509  
19  Purdue  3-1  424  
20  Auburn  4-0  387  
21  So. Mississippi  2·1  356  
22  Illinois  3-1  229  
23  South Carolina  4-0  218  
24  Georgia  2-1  217  
25  Oregon  3-1  183  

Observer experts 



MICHIGAN KANSAS STATE TENNESSEE 
Season Record 
10-6 
MICHIGAN KANSAS STATE 
TENNESSEE 
Season Record 
10-6 
MICIIIGAN KANSAS STATE TENNESSEE 
Season Record 
9-7 
A LOOK AT Tms WEEKEND'S COi.LEGE FOOTBALL ACTION 
Friday, September 29, 2000 

GAME OF THE WEEK 

KAT Photo 

Michigan players celebrate during their 38-7 victory over Rice on Sept. 9. Michigan takes on Big Ten rival Wisconsin this weekend. 
Michigan, Wisconsin face off after upsets 
Hose Bowl.
B 
Sports Writer 

Al Lhe beginning of Lhe season, this contest looked to be the de l'acto Big Ten Championship game. Then both teams faltered, suf­fering upset losses to UCLA and Northwestern. Now, the Wisconsin-Michigan clash will most likely determine who will face the resurgent Ohio State Buckeyes for a trip to the 
The Michigan Wolverines were poised for greatness until they tripped up against the Bruins. Last Saturday, they narrowlv avoided another blemish·at the hands of a clearly more inspired Illinois team. If it wasn't for two blown calls on suc­cessive fumbles that both went Michigan's way, the Wolverines would be a .500 team. 
Michigan's talent pool is as strong as any team in the country, especially on offense. Quarterback Drew Henson returned from a broken fool against Illinois, and looked good both running and passing the ball. 
Wisconsin replaced departed Heisman Trophy winner Ron Dayne with junior Michael Bennett. Bennett possesses sprint­er's speed, and competes on the Wisconsin track team. While he cannot 
OTHER TOP GAMES 
Kansas State at Virginia: The Buffaloes continue their tour of the top 25 in search of their first win. All three previous losses were decided by four points or less. They have had a week off to regroup and prepare for their Big 12 opener. 
Coach Bill Snyder's performance at Kansas Stall! has been nothing short of nxlraordinary. Once pnrennial doormats of the Big 8, the Wildcats now annually contend for a HCS bowl hid. Possibly the apex ol' the resurgence was the thrilling home win over Nebraska in l998. 
The knock against Kansas State is its insistence on playing a cupcake schedule in September. !\ny college football fan cannot help but l'rown when they sec another Wildr,ats game that resembles an Arena League football score. This year, Kansas State blasted opponents Louisiana Tech, Ball State and North Texas by scores of 54-10, 76-0, and 55­lO respectively. 
Two problems emerge !'rum this type of scheduling. First, Kansas State loses ground in the BCS poll because of the strength of schedule factor. 
Secondly, the Wildcals have a false sense of security due to padded stats and poor competition. What results is a nasty habit of losing big games such as in the 1998 Big 12 Championship and the humiliating 45-15 loss to the Ituskers last year. 
Tennessee at Virginia: The Volunteers hope to continue lhe healing process from their controversial loss to Florida. Quarterback Casey Clausen was impressive in his college debut last week against Louisiana-Monroe. but the Tigers will give the Volunteers a better light. 
Former Michigan State coach Nick Saban was hired to right the ship in Baton Houge. Fortunately, ousted Coach Gerry DiNardo left the cupboards well stocked with young talent. The Tiger fans want success now, and will only give Saban two seasons to rebuild the program. This team is years away from contention. but can realistically expect to improve on last week's game. 
match Dayne's overpower­ing north/south running style, Bennett should be able to make big plays when he gets into the sec­ondary. 
Quarterback Brooks Bollinger posted an 8-0 record as a starter last year on the way to Big Ten Freshman of the Year accolades. His mobility adds a dimension to the Wisconsin attack that has been absent in recent years. 
around the dial 
Illinois at Minnesota 
1, a. m.. l:SPN 
Wisconsin at Michigan 
11 a.m., /\BC 
Purdue at Penn State 
2:30 p.m.. ABC 

Louisville at Florida State 
5 p.m.. HSPN2 
Tennessee at LSU 
6:30 p.rn., ESPN 
BYU at Syracuse 
7 p.m., I:.'SPN2 
page 25 

Friday, September 29, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
"They're a team that wants to come out and beat us," he said. "I don't. think we have to worry about them laying back." 
After that potentially difficult exam, Notre Dame will remain at home to take on the Scarlet Nights of Rutgers Sunday after­noon. The Scarlet Knights are an enigma of sorts. They lost badly to the Irish last year and have been unable to mount a run thus far, as they stand at a medlocre 4-3-2. 
"What scares me about Rutgers is that we really don't know what kind of team they have," Waldrum said. "Last year they were very average but this time around we're unsure of what to expect from them." 
Waldrum's concerns stem from 
the fact that the Scarlet Knights 
have a new coach. and a new 
style of play. Glenn Crooks is in 
the midst of his first year on the 
bench and Waldrum believes he 
will stray from the defensive style 
played by the Knights last year. 
"They were a team that laid 
back on us," Wald.rum said. "But I 
think the new coach brings a 
needed breath offrf>..sh air." 
While the Knights may be 
infused with fresh air, rest will 
have rejuvenated the Irish. 
Waldrum is hopeful that his team 
can return to playjng with that 
familiar fiery intensity of old and 
leave the Scarlet Knights seeing 
red. 


What a,e you loo1ung fo, in yw,job search? 
A. One of tlle Wodd's Q C. tong-te,m ca,ee, 
0 

. la,gest ~anl<.s oppo,tunitles 
O 1l. formal t,aLTIITig @ ll. All of tile above 
Learn more about ABN AMRO and LaSalle Bank. 
We are looking for majors in: 
• Business • Economics • Math, Statistics, Science 
for the following career-focused programs: 
• Commercial Lender Training Program 
• Finance Associates Program 
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
Octobe, 26th fiautJe, HaH 
For more information about our recruiting visits at the University of Notre Dame, please contact your career services office or: abnamrocareer.com 
LaSalle 
THE BANK THAT WORKS" 

·-­
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Undefeated Albion takes on Saint Mary's 
By ALICIA ORTIZ 
Sports W ricer 
The soccerbelles have their work cut out for them. 
Facing off against the only unbeaten women's soccer team in the MIAA, the Belles will come up against the Albion College Britons, currently 5-0-0 on the season. 
The Belles think they are ready. 
"They [Albion] are a really strong team," co-captain Heather Muth said. "We have improved a lot. I think the game against Calvin has prepared 
us." 
The Belles lost to Calvin College 3-1 on Tuesday. 
On that same day Albion beat Olivet 2-0. This is the first year since 1989 that the Brits have been W1defeated. 
The Belles seem to be more 

concerned with how they plan 
to win against Albion than the 
Brits undefeated record. 
"I am only concerned with 

putting the ball in the net," 
goalkeeper Tia Kapphahan 
said. "I want to come home 
with a win." 
"This game will help us prove 

to ourselves that we can come 
together as a team under pres­
sure," Muth added. "If we are 
going to win on Saturday we 
will have to win as a team with 
everyone contributing." Team support and unity are important to thi'> team. 
"We have our own individual strengths," forward and sweep­er Alissa Brasseur said. "We are also strong as a team." 
The Belles will need every ounce of this strength to over­come Albion. While the threat of a loss weighs on their mind, the Belles are focusing on the game. not the opposing team. 
"I am excited to play," mid­fielder Lynn Taylor said. ''I do not feel worried or pressured in anyway." 
Besides emphasizing a posi­
tive attitude, the Belles have 
been focusing on offensive play­
ing in practice to prepare for 
Saturday. 
"We have a strong offense," 
said Kapphahn. "We will have 
to put more emphasis on that 
for a win." 
While the team got off to a 
tough start, notching several 
losses at the onset of the sea­
son, a turnaround is possible. 
The Belles admitted that break­
ing the Britons' winning streak 
is in the hack of their minds. 
Albion will be the place for the 
Belles to gel and prove their tal­
ent. 
"We have had a rough start," 
said Taylor. "Now we are 
beginning to come together." 
The Belles play Saturday at 
noon at Albion College. 
HELP!HELP!HELP!HELP! 
Student Activities has immediate openings for the following student em lo EE ositions: 
LaFortune Building Managers Building Set Up Crew Sound Technicians 24 Hour Lounge Monitors 
Sundal, OCIOIIBI 1 4pm IOVCB Center 
•First 300 tans receive an adidas 1..shin •Dorm with the most fans wins aPizza partv. 
1111 tans 11resen1have Ille 01111onunitJto win... IIUlllenliC llocke1jerse,s, llulograslletlhOCkBISlicksand Nolle Bame lloc1te1 annarel 
Proceeds to benefitShown Wnls/t Head Cooch at the University orMaine 
000 SYDNEY 2000 000 
page 26 Friday, Septemher 29, 2000 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Jones wins 200 by largest margin since 1960 
Associaied Press 
SYDNEY The competition didn't kncp up with her. The tough question 
.. didn't rattle her. Marion Jones seems deter­mined lo make her way through the Sydney Olympics with her trademark mix of poise and spned. Jones won the women's Olympic 200 meters by the biggest margin since I 960. Then she answered a question that would have aggravated just about any otlwr athlete under similar circumstancos. Was she worried that people would suspecl she used perfor­mance-enhancing drugs'! "No,n she said with her cus­tomary calmness and no trace of anger, "I don't have that fear, because the people who know me. coach me, train me, know I'm a clean athlete." lier runaway triumph in the 200 Thursday night came just two days after her husband, shot putter CJ Hunter, tearfully tried to explain why he had test­ed positive for the anabolic steroid nandrolone. Jones refuses to allow her husband's problems detract from her quest to become the second Olympian, and first in 76 years, to win five gold medals in track and field. "To let one event ruin it, no way, no way," she said. "What's happened the last couple of days 

could have swayPd my focus, but it didn't, and I'm glad about that" 
Olympic Stadium and per­forming in front of more than 
100.000 pPople has been lwr refuge. 
"When I steppPd on the track. it just seemed like everything was pushed aside and what I was focusing on was the track," she said. "I think it's very easy to f'orgc)t about things off the trnck when you step into the sta­dium -tho people, the lighL<i and the camera. You know, it wasn't very difficult." 
With chic!' rival Inger Miller out with a hamstring injury. Jones' 200-metcr triumph. and her 100-metcr victory last Saturday, were devoid uf sus­pense. She simply blew the com­petition away, then indicated that was what she and everyone else should have expected. 
"I don't think anybody, at least I hope none of you guys, doubt­ed me in the sprints." she told reporters with a smile. 
It probably was the most one­sided sprint sweep in Olympic history. 
lier margin of victory in the 200 was 0.43 seconds, the biggest since Wilma Budolph won by 0.45 seconds at the 1%0 Tokyo Games. Last Saturday, her victory margin in the .100 of 
0.43 seconds was the second largest ever in that Olympic event. by a man or woman. 
The lack of any real competi­tion didn't diminish Jones' joy, though. She had been aiming at th<' Olympics sincn slw was an 8-yP.ar-old girl watching the Los Angcl«\S Ganws on tc-levision in 1984. 
"It's so much bntwr than thn drnam." .Jonns said. ''It's so much better to have ltlw gold mcd~.IJ actually around your neck. 
She remains a supporter or hnr husband, who claims his positiw LnsLi; came l'rom an iron supplement. After her 200 victo­ry, she sought lluntcr out in tlw crowd and gave him a kiss. 
On the mndals stand, slw was st>rious al lirst, them broke out in a bright. big smile as the nation­al anthem neared its c~nd. 
'Tm here for greater things than these two gold nwdals," .Jones said. "I know I can walk away with liv1)." 
Next up was her louglH\st indi­vidual ownt, the long jump. 1ler on-criticized tnchniquo, or lack of tnchniquo. makes each or her long jump competitions an adventurn. 
Looming slightly farther down the road arc the 400-and 1,600­meter relays. Miller and Gail Devers, both original members of the relay team. will not bo able to run because ol' ham­string injuries, depriving the United States or two of its top sprinters. 
Those problems, and a lack of big-time talent other than Jones on the U.S. 1,(100-mcter relay team, means that she could f'ail through no fault of her own. 
The more gold Jones wins, the bigger target she becomes. 

WRESTLING 
Henson one victory away from freestyle gold 
8-4 victory. scH•," U.S. co-coach John Associated Press 
llenson, a two-time for­Smith said. "Tim focus is mer NCAA champion who not losing your composure SYDNEY still wears Clemson gear to against a quality opponent. 
Warm up the bubble the mat over top of his sin­But Sammie is a wrestler bath, wipe off the rubber glet. has won his three who makes things hap­ducky. Sammie llenson is matches by a combined pcm." one victory away from the score of 28-5. Afterward. the 5-foot-4 gold-medal match in "Eliminate and domi­llenson, who is short but Olympic freestyle nate, that's the idea," said muscular and s«rnms to wrestling. Ilenson, who said his goal have a perpetual S o'clock 
llcnson. a former world before the Olympics was to shadow, likes to soak in all champion who specializes get the gold medal and win the attention. And soak in in come-from-behind victo­each match by 6 or 7 a steamy bubble bath 
ries and then always points. drawn by wife Stephanie. 
enjoys a good bubble bcith Ilenson flirted with his "It was great last night," afterward. pulled off own elimination against he said. "We got out of' the another comeback Friday Zakharuk. a throe-time Olympic Village and stayed (Thursday night EDT) to world placcwinncr, by in a hotel downtown not reach the semifinals at 119 falling behind 4-0, the l'ar f'rom here ... and. yes. I pounds. equivalent of' a bask11tball had my bubble bath," 
All l'our Americans team trailing 20-0. llcnson said. "I've always wrestling in Friday's first "When you'rn ahead 4-0, got to have my bubble session were winners. you expect to win," llenson bath." Brandon Slay, who upset said. "I made a mistake llenson's semifinal Olympic champion and and I overcame it. match against Sergei four-time world champion Something like this used to Demchcnko of' Belarus was Bouvaissa Saitiev of Russia be the downfall of Sammir. later Friday. on Thursday. reached the Henson, I'd get mad and Slay had another tight semifinals at 167 1/2 frustrated. But what used match. winning on rel'er­pounds. to be a deficiency is now a ec's decision over Gcnnadi 
Lincoln Mcllravy at 152 strength. I kept my head Laliyev of Kazakstan after pounds and heavyweight and st~rted doing what I the two tied 2-2. Slay Kerry McCoy won the first can do. backed off his offense in matches in their pools. Henson. who now lives in the final minute of over­
llcnson fell behind 4-0 Norman, Okla., came from time, aware he was ahead then rallied with a succes­behind in all five matches on passivities, stall warn­sion of speed and strength to win the world champi­ings, and to guard against moves to repeatedly take onship in 1998. making a mistake that Oleksandr Zakharuk of "Certainly, 4-0 is more of would cost him a point and Ukraine to the mat for an a deficit you would like to the match. 
Friday, September 29, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
C) 

Fox TROT  BILLA1\1END  
Ft'VE SC:ooPS OF OOMMY WORMS•.• FOUll DoZEN SWEDISH FISH••.TWO PoONO oF PE \.USTEllS...  ANO IT'S .i\Lt. Foll YoU, LITTLE BRoTHER.  •..TEN PERCENT oF MY CANDY FoR YoU To NOT TELL MOM. I  HE'f! YOU STIFFED ME HALF A FISH!  

TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
This te~t 15 
AIreAd'/ reA\l"f hArd1 

bot how GA~ J: r"\Al',e 1t e\len hArd 
!'C'"''""' I
111 ~ ... 
.. 

.... 
-

.. 
The origin ofthe 8 a.m. test. 
CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kato Kaelin, Faith Daniels, Raul Julia, Mickey Spillane, Trish Van Devere, Bobby Fischer, Danny Sullivan, Emmanuel Lewis, Linda Fiorentino 
Happy Birthday: Your strong and stable nature will be back in full force. You will be able to reach your goals this year if you focus on wftat's important to you instead of doing what everyone else wants you to do. It's time to put yourself first and for. get trying to please others. You can make a difference if you are willing to take a position of leadership. Your numbers:15,19,23,34,39,42 
ARIES {March 21-April 19): Your position may be threatened. by some­one who has been less than compli­mentary about your work. Don't let anyone push you into a confronta­tion You will only make yourself look 
bad.00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Try not to get too upset if you are sum­moned to take care of someone's affairs. Problems with older women in your family may be alarming. Being stubborn will only work against you. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A 
good friend may be interested in more than just a friendship. You bet­ter look at the situation realistically, or you may ruin the connection that you have. Your emotions are in a frenzy. 
000 
CANCER (June n-July 22): Prob­leinS at a personal level will play on your mind. You must be willing to move on and let go of the past if you wish to get over the unpleasantness you've exre:ienced. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Organize events that will require endurance. Include all your friends. Spend more time with those who have similar 
EUGENIA LAST 

interests. You are bored with some of the connections you've made. 
00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): You will be upset with those who don't pull their weildtt You are used to giv­ing your a!T and will be ready to blow up if you are forced to deal with individuals who are lazy and inconsiderate. 00 
LIBRA (SepL 23-0ct. 22): Business trips will be enjoyable. You may meet someone who interests you more than as a friend. You need to experience relationships that will provide you with intellectual excitement 0000 
SCORPIO (OcL 23-Nov. 21): Take care of all the fine details. You will be able to organize functions that are to take place at work. You will look good in the eyes of your boss. A raise may be in order. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Helping others will be rewarding. Uncertainties regarding your finances maybe upsetting, but if you can hang on a little while longer things will tum in your favor. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It is best to work on your own and avoid getting involved in conversa­tions tliat will only put you in a pre­carious position. You can make career changes if you do a little extra work. 
000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Mingle with those in high positions, and you will move up tlie career lad­der much quicker. Your ideas are good, and ifyou present them to the right people you can expect to get support. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will lose if you get involved in joint financial ventures. Don't let others talk you into doing things. It is best to spend your time working on creative projects. 00 
ACROSS 
Like a tete-a­tete sofa 8 Drink to one's health 15 Reason to separate swine 16 Roadblock 17 Beat in a shootout 18 Charges 19 Short, in a way 
20 1 , 500 years before the Wright brothers' first flight 
21 Onetime club initials 22 70's-90's pitcher Chariie 25 Kind of coil 28 Rd. map line 
30 "O Sanctissima," e.g. 32 Buff 33 Like coated fabrics 38 Went off the beam? 
39 Gracious admission of an error 
40 Spooky place?: Abbr. 41 Pivot 42 The buck stops here 43 Big name at Notre Dame 46 Clashing 48 Spot 51 Rays 53 Comparison 55 Style of Hals and Velazquez 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
N E S T S A L E R T 
--:-+-=+=+::=-4

TALIA STI 
L L A F P -=-+-,-+--+--+-,-+­
57 Some newsbreaks 
58 Flower cluster 59 Look through blinds, say 
60 Changed 61 Subscription cards, e.g. 
DOWN 1 Beat, in a way 2 Divert 3 Ensconced 
eatery 4 Robert of "Guys 
and Dolls" 5 Uses as a roost 6 Wordsworth's 
Muse 7 Bird that nests 
in chimneys 8 Unhealthy mix 9 Surrounded by 
10 Problem in an alley 11 "Ogives" composer 
12 Name in the middle of a masthead 
-.--..;;..;..;.i..;;;..;~..;.i 13 "There 

Mountain"(1967  
Donovan hit)  
~~~~  14 Umpire's cry  
23 Like much  
~=t-,,,..+-,,,-1  lost-and-found  
I  SA  property  
24 Has dates  
JUD  ISS  COLIN  26 Pierce  
F R O  M  I  T  A T A R  I  27 Chipped in  
K N E  E E S  T E N E T  29 "Later!"  


31 Unreliable 47 Resort near the 52 Castaway's source White River home National
33 Select on a 54 Fulfill, as a bid 
Forest
computer 55 Dashboard abbr. 49 Dweller on the
34 Cellist's cube 56 de vie 
Bering Sea 
57 Big inits. in
35 Intentions 

50 Conquers news 36 Some winter merriment Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
37 Kind of shell 

are available by touch-tone phone: 44 Connie's 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Prf:!a~~df~ther" Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 45 Order years: 1·888·7·ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
• • .._'l,t•!•~~• ~~••1• •i••~. •~~•l•!•~~t•••
~•,,
1 

! J•1

•· o,. o~· I i \0-(\ ~• . ~ .

ok-t:&'" :._',.'I'_~.)!!~
tJ('3 :'<,. \:' ... ~~ 
<"'"-~ 
VJ _ 
~ 
. . 


~.•:oo · {i lo:3:o IOI DeBa~lo 
. £J~l~~v1 i I 

0~ 6e~~Ptt 
:f:oo ~ ' r+Ilt 
i • 

*\~ 0ed.f,,~ ?,.r+ :0: 1,;6" l>,,_ ls'...--+<>!0 
nd.edu

. Cl·. OD ~A\ 1-, I l , WWW. 
/~sub

\5"5 !J>e,Bq,t-Dlo ! · 


Fightin' Vermin 
The Vermin ofCarroll Hall take on the Rabid Bats of Zahm on Sunday.
PORTS 
page 17 

page 28 OBSERVER Friday, September 29, 2000 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish take on South Quad fans, Panthers 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
.,. 
Assisianc Sports Edi tor 
To some Notre Dame stu­dents walking along South Quad this aftornoon, it may appear the the Irish men's soc­cer team has chosen to move their practices to the grassy area in front of South Dining llall. Actually, this is just a pro­motion designed to bring more fans out to Alumni Field for tonight's 7:30 game against No. 14 l'ittsburgh. 
As a promotion to attract fans to tonight's game, a goal will be set up in the middle of South Quad where students will get a chance to take a shot on goalkeepers Greg Tait and Cole Straub from 12:30 to 1:30 today. Other players will be there, and schedules and raffie tickets will be passed out. The winning raffie numbers will be announced at tonight's game ­redeemable for T-shirts, sweat tops and other soccer para­phernalia. 
"Basically it's a promotion because we want to get more fans out cheering us on,' said Straub, "It helps the team a lot when fans support it. The fans here arc great so the more fans we can get out the better." 
The Pittsburgh Panthers opened their season 6-0, their best start since 1981, before falling to Connecticut 1-0 last Friday night. Pittsburgh went 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
on to defeat Seton I !all 4-3 on Sundav to increase their record in the Big East to 3-1. 
In the Seton Hall game, Panthers' sophomore Miles Dowiak had one goal and two assists to lead the offense. The Pittsburgh offense, tied for 11th best in the NCAA, is led by Ben Garry, Chad Porter, and Spencer Barton, the number 
10. 11 and 12 scorers in the Big East, respectively. 
The Irish come in looking for redemption after dropping two Big East contests at home last weekend, each by a l-0 score. After going scoreless against Seton Hall and Connecticut, the team worked to regroup the offense. 
"We worked on our finishing, we worked on changing the point of attack,' said Irish head coach Chris Apple. "I think we'II sec both of those things [Friday].' 
In particular. the Irish are looking for an individual to step up on offense and provide con­sistent goal scoring. The team's leading scorer right now is senior Griffin Howard, whose goals have all come on penalty 
kicks. 
Sophomore Erich Braun ­last season's leading scorer for the Irish and the Big East Rookie of the Year in 1999 ­has been hobbled by hamstring injuries throughout the season. 
see PANTHERS/page 17 


No. 1 Irish await Pirate's challenge 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports Wrirer 
Notre Dame women's soccer head coach Handy Waldrum would argue that winning is not the only thing. 
Though the Sewn llall Pirates have sur­f c r e d through an inconsistent year, they represent 


P e r h 11 P s Waldrum 
N o t r e Dame's toughest competition in the Mid­Atlantic division of the Big East Conference when they visit Alumni Field tonight at 5:30. 
Though the Irish have won late­ly, they are 9-0 on the season and 
-
ranked No.l unanimously in all of the national polls, Waldrum has not been happy with the way his team has played. Last weekend, after completing a stretch that. saw them play four ranked teams in a matter of eight days. the Irish took their newly acquired number one ranking on the road to Morganto'hn, West Virginia. They nearly left in disgrace as the Mount.aineers took the match into extra time before falling 2-1. Notre Dame returned home to take on the Pittsburgh Panthers Sunday and looked ragged at times in beating a team of far less­er skill by only a 1-0 count. 
"We lacked a little enthusiasm and intensity last week," Waldrum admitted. "We need to get back that sense of urgency we had ear­lier." 
The Pirates, like the Irish, arc undefeated in conference play, making tonight's tussle at Alumni Field a showdown for first place in the division. 
"We're going to approach it like a playoff game," Waldrum said. "If they were to beat us, there's really no one else in the division they'd lose to, so it's a huge game for us." 
The Pirates have shown the Irish in the past that despite their unranked status they can indeed be fatal. In 1998, the Pirates ran­sacked a much higher ranked Irish squad 2-1 in one of the big· gcr upsets in recent Notre Dame history. 
"We understand the possibility of upsets," Waldrum said. "We plan on playing this game with the intensity we had early in the year." 
Seeing that his squad was weary, Waldrurn gave his troops two days off this week. He said not practicing on Monday and Tuesday wa.c; beneficial. 
"I think it helped," Waldrurn said. "We looked a little sharper later in the week. I think all ol' the girls had a tough week in school so the rest came at the right time." 
The Pirates, on the other hand, had a busy week. Playing a rare weeknight game, Seton Ila!! topped the Wildcats of Villanova for their third win in a row Wednesday night. 
The win came days after the Pirates upended the same Mountaineers that gave the Irish so much trouble. 
"Seton Hall will certainly be a test," Waldrum admitted. 
After facing a Pittsburgh team that frustrated by packing the box with as many as six defenders, Waldrum is hopeful that Seton I!all will come out trying to open things up. 
see SOCCER/page 22 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Kuenster proves to be leader 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Early in her Notre Dame career. cross country and track runner Chrissy Kuenstcr was a nice addition to the junior varsity squad. Head coach Tim Connelly had not recruited Kuenster out of high school. so any contribu­tion she made to the Irish came as a bonus. 
"I didn't really recruit her," Connelly said. "She wanted to come to Notre Dame and wanted to run, and I definitely encouraged her, but I didn't recruit her." 
Somewhere along the way, the Irish began to count on Kuenstcr to race varsity, score and act as a team leader. lier passion for run­ning paid off in the form of faster times and consistent workouts, as the senior has dropped nearly two minutes off her cross country time from freshman year. Kuenster finished her first meet in 1997, the Valparaiso Invitational, in 20 minutes, 
17.93 seconds, a time eclipsed by her 18:23 finish in last week's National Catholic Invitational That time was good for fifth place overall. 
''I've done the workouts as hard as I could, and as consis· tently as I could do them," Kuenster said. "I Jove to run, so I've enjoyed them. I like being able to help the team." 
A year-round training schedule helped Kuenster slash her times, as did her tutelage under older and faster runners like All­American Alison Klemmer, who graduated in May. 
"She's got an incredible work ethic. She just trains and trains and trains," Connelly said. "Plus she got in with some of the older kids, and that helped her. Alison Klcmmer and her are really close. Alison kind of took her under her wing. I think train­ing with someone like that really helped her." 
The first inklings ol' success helped foster further accom­plishments for Kucnster. A 33rd place finish at last year's Big East Cross Country Championships in a time of 
18:47 gave her conlidence 
sec KUENSTER/pagc 21 

vs. Seton Hall vs. Pittsburgh Today, 5:30 p.m. Today, 7:30 p.m. 
41 SPORTS t, 
at Alma ~ Sunday,noon
ATA 

vs. Villanova Golf Today 7 p.m. at Hope College
fli
GLANCE 

Saturday, tba 
..:. 



