
Away from home 
No tickety no ballgame 
Fo,. their first game on the road, the Fighting 
The Ubseruer editorial questions away-game 
Friday
Irish head to Eost Lansing tu hattle the 

lick et allocation in light ofthe Nebraska game. 
Spa.rtans. See the Insider for full couerage. 

Viewpoint . page 12 
SEPTEMBER 22,

Irish Insider 
2000 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
V X XIVN0.24 
THE END OF SUMMER 


HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Future of SafeRide to be decided soon 
By JASON McFARLEY 
Assistant News Editor 
\'owing to "take a hard look at Urn issue," Notre Dame stu­dent body president Brian O'Donoghue said Thursday that he expects to make a d e c isi o n o n th 11 fa t e o f SafeRide as early as next week. 
It's a move that may signal 
the official end to the currently defunct cam­pus taxi ser­vice. 
"As or right n o w , SafeRide is non-opera­t ion al," O'Donoghue said. "We plan to sit down and take a 
it to see if it's something we need to continue." 
SafeRide is a Student Union­sponsored program that pro­vides free transportation to University students traveling back to campus from local off­camp us hangouts on week­ends. 
O'Donoghue said the pro­gram is a service to the Notre Dame community but has struggled through the years with problems of ineffective service. 
As recently as last spring, SafeRide was hampered by issues with hiring drivers and ad(1quately staffing them for weekend shifts. Last fall, SafeRide's role at the University came into question. The Student Senate formed an ad hoc committee to investi­gate the program's effective­ness as a campus service. 
"The [current University] 
seniors were 
the last class 
to really see

"We plan to sit down and 
it working .
take a hard look at effectivPly," 
[SafeRideJ to see ifit's s a i d ()'Donoghue,
something we need to 
who also is 

continue." skeptical of any large student'
Brian O'Donoghue 
demand for

student body president 
the 
hard look at 
pro­
gram. 
But senior Dave Powers believes there is a need for the program which he oversaw as coordinator last year. 
SafeRide functioned with 10 drivers last semester, accord­ing to Powers. The program ran on Friday and Saturday nights. generally between the hours of 11 p.m. and 3 a.m. and provided transportation from areas near campus and in downtown South Bend. About 30 to 40 students 
see SAFERIDE/page 4 




Lecture debates teaching creationism, evolution in school 
By MOLLY McVOY 
S:iinr Mary's Editor 
The clash between creationists and evolutionists that has existed since Charles Darwin's days contin­ued Thursday night at Hohert Pennock's lecture. 
llis lecture, entitled "Should Evolution be Taught in thf1 Publir. Schools? What Dorothv Learned when the Creationist Wh.irlwind Hit Kansas," tackled the issues of where and when evolution should be taught. 
"The way creationists would like this to work is as a dual model." Pennock explained. . 
Ho was reforring to the debate on whether cn~ationism should be part of' evolution in scirncP coursns. 
Pennock first explainod his belief tlrnt evolutionary thc~ory is the only theorv with solid evidence to back it up· lie also said introducing cre­ation ism in the classroom would open tlw door ror cuunlless other Ihcorics 011 tlw drvelnpment of Iifo. 
"It would !Pad to a chaotic educa­tion svstem, not a workable one,., Penno.ck said. 

Pennock's lecture was centered on discussion of the landmark case in Kansas during the summer of 1999 when the Kansas State School Board voted to use creationist­revised sciencP standards which, Pennock stated, essentially removed evolution from the cur­riculum. 
Pennock explained· that the school board brought to light a debate and a faulty set of argu­mf•nts that havc be(m around since the theory of evolution arose. Creationists, he said, have looked for holes in the theory of evolution since its inception. 
They have not, however, present­ed scientific evidtmcc for the cre­ationist theory, a<'cording to Pennor.k. 
"[Crealionisml is not something where the cvidenc(1 makes a dilfor­enre," hf' said. "TlH'Y j11st know tlw 
,, 

answer 
The ·dispute has been often seen as a morality versus immorality qm~stion in the eyes of creationists, said Pennock. Because of this, cre­ationists will ignore or discount the scientific evidence in support of evolution, he explained. 
"They really do seo this as good and evil," Pennock said. "They see it as a battle between the good side of the Forcn and tho bad side." 
He emphasized how this system of beliefs opposes the scientific community's philosophy. 
"This is quite contrary to the sci­entific point of view which bases conclusions on the evidence," Pennock said. 
In addition to addressing the attacks on evolution by creationists, Pennock spoke to why evolutionary theory is not, fundamentally, in opposition to religion, and Catholicism in particular. 
"Both Pope John Paul II and Pope Pius XII made statements that said tlrnre was no conflict." he said. "It is, in my experience, students who come from C1ltholic schools who know evolution the best." 
He explained lhat, just because 
see EVOLUTION/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, September 22, 2000 


INSIDE COLUMN 


Accustomed to 
•

victory 

Watching Thursday night f'ootbaH lasl night, I laughed whim I saw North Carolina State fans charge the tiPld and tear down the goal posts after Urn Wolfpack's victory against Georgia Tech. That's right. They tore down the goal posts becausf! they beat Gnorgia Tech. Unranked, 2­2 {;Mrgia Terh. 
It was obvious tn me that NC StatP rans had no idf'a how to cdt·bratt• a victory. WhPn vou beat a mediocre. middle of' the park ACC team. you don't tear down llrn goal posts. You don't rush Lim fiPld. You cele­bratn in vour toam·s accom­plishments but yqu act like you oxpected your team to win Bul NC State fans can br. forgiven. It is so rare that they actually have a football tram worth watch­ing. They gr.t a little bit over t\xr.itcd when limy win 
But that's not the wav Irish !'ans should react when they win. I learned this lessun freshman yPar. after Tony Driver picked off two Drew Brer.s passes. I was one of those "stupid fresh­men" that rushed the licld. Thanks to the upperdassmf~n and their chants of "stupid freshmen" l learned that Notre Dame expccts to beat Purdue at all times and we do not need r.harge the fir.Id -no matter how exciting the victorv. 
So this past weekend, when the freshmen rushed thP field following Nir.k Setta's lield goal. I remembered that lesson I learned lwo years ago. My friends and I lried lo start up a "stupid l'reshmen" cheer to help them under­stand thP erTors of their ways but unfortunate­ly the chant never caught on. 
So to let thr. freshmen understand the errors ol' their ways and prevent field charging in the futurr.. I figure I would help them understand a little bit of Irish fan etiquette. 
1. 
Don't r:harge the field after wins over Purdue or Navy, Boston College or any of the othflr teams that Notre Dame fans expert to beat everv vear. No matter how dramatic the Irish vict!iry -stay in the stands. Scream your lungs out. Dance the jig to your hearts r.ontPnt but stay off the field. The team will comr. over tn th1• student section and hold up their hel­nrnts. Just wait in the stands and don't mess up Lh1e band formations by charging the field. 

2. 
Don't do pushups during the Alma Mater. I hope this on!~ is self-explanatory. 

3. 
Don't drnnt "Overrated." Maybe it's just me but I really, really hate this chant. Basir:ally what you are saying when you chant "overrat­ed" is: "lfoy you can't be any good. Because il' our team can beat you then you must not be a good team." Why would you want to demean our tf'am's acr.omplishments with this r.heer? lsn't thf'rf' a chance that Purdue was the 12th bPst team in th!' countrv last week and the Irish were ... underrate"d at No. 21? Maybe all the pollsters just underestimated the Irish this yr.ar. 


I expe<:t them will be many more big victories for tlrn Irish and many more exciting finishes. But at Notre Dame. we expect our team to win the big games. Don't seem so surprised when lhe Irish pull off big wins. This is Notre Dame -winning is what Notre Damr. does best. 
the views expressed in the inside Column a.re those of the author and not necm;srzrily lhose ofThe OhservPr. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Kate N.1g.~nga,r Amanda Greco M:1rihcl Morey Graphics 

Srnn llrudfruhrer Katie Annis 
Sports Production Katie McVov Noah Amstadrcr Katie: I luglics Lab Tech Viewpoint Tonv Floyd l'a[ Kdlcy 

1·1,,. tll,,crvn (l'Sl'S 'i'N Z-.100ClJ i, l'uhl1Sl1<'d Mn11d.1r tltrnllgh l'rid.ir r.-.rqlt (lurin~ 1,:x,11n ,md v,1L,llmn pnlod.\. Tlic.: Obs..:rv1.·r is .1 nu:mh..:r of d,c: _As\ud.w:d l1rt·11-.\. All r11.:produnrnn n~lu~ .m: n:~t'l"Vt·d 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
University inaugurates new president Sept. 23, 1987 
University Presid~nt Edward Malloy·s inauguration was the first formal inauguration of' a Univr.rsity prr.sident at Notre Dume. The entire day was planned with activities l'rom 10 a.m. until 5 p.m. "The ceremonies are a chance to show off the University to guests. It's the first time we've [had a ceremony]... We're setting a prer.edent in everything we do." said Malloy. 
LaFortune opening with 24-hour space Sept. 24, 1993 
ror the first of four trial pr.rinds, the first floor and the basement of' LaFortune will bi> open 24 hours. This plan is only sr.heduled for the next four weekends because Student Government rrne<ls to nvaluate the response. "We definitely need to rally the students to got over therf> to show tlrn administration that we really want it."· said Nikki Wr.llman, studr.nt body vice president. 
Compiled from U-Wire rep(n1s


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
JMU students win athletic discrimination case 
HAHRISON13UHG, Va. 

Some James Madison university studpnts spimt their summer working, snmr. spend it lounging and some spr.nt it flying back and forth to Charlottesville to give testimony in a discrimination case against the Virginia High School Lr.ague. 
ror f'our yr.a.rs, 11 female athlei.r.s. two of whom an~ current JMU stu­dents, have been attempting to ensure that all student athletes are allowed equal opportunity 1.o partir­ipate in the high school sport of their choice. 
Their efforts came to fruition in July, when a U.S. District Court ruled against VHSL, which oversees sporl<; in Virginia's public schools. 
Although no specitic damages werr. requested. each of the 11 plaintiffs were awarded $17,000. 
"We were really surprised, we weren't asking for money," 
Julie Melkerson JMU sophomore and co-plaintiff 
"We were really surprised. Wf'. wcrnn't asking for money," JMU sophomore and co-plaintiff Julie MPlkerson said. "All we wanted was for the sports to be aligned so that no girl would have to go through what we did. The important part of this rul­ing is that the VJ-ISL has to align the sports." 
Groundwork for the lawsuit dates back to 1995, when two Suffolk high schools raised concern after a change in athletic divisions from Group AA to AAA r.auscd sports se,L'wns to conflict. 
Melkerson said that at the end of her freshman year at I,akeland I ligh School. lhr. shirt in divisions r.aused thr, realignment of thre0 womrn's sports: basketball. volleyball and ten­nis. The sports were now all sched­uled during the fall sr.ason. forcing female athletes to choose one sport ovr.r the others. 
Thoso sports remained align<)d l'rir all male athletes, Urns preventing them having to choosn one ov11r thr. othr.r. JMU sophomore Hebr.cca Sherard experienced the same dif'li­culties with lrnr sports at Suffolk's Nansmond HivN High Sr.hool during this time. Sherard played tennis and field hockey, both ro-aligned as fall sports. 
She was forcr.d lo pick onP ovnr the othr,r. 

UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS 
Arrest prompts safety questions 
FAYETTEVILLE 
The student who was arrested Friday for allegedJy breaking into several University of Arkansas residence hall rooms has been suspended from all residence halls and dining services, said Claim Good, University Housing interim director. Mark Hobinson was arrested at about 4:10 a.m. Friday after he entered at least four unlocked rooms of other students in Gregson Hall. Good said the decision to suspend Robinson was made Friday morning by University Housing oflkials in con­junction with the office of the vice chancellor of Student Affairs. UAPD has also posted publir. safety bulletins in all residence halls warning students to keep their doors lor,ked, particularly when they arc asleep, Good said. "The [residence hallJ community is only as safe as !the students] can make it," Good said. "They have to keep their rooms secured." She said there will be 11oor meet­ings to advise students. "We believe in letting students have a life," Good said. "and a right to privacy." 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South BEnd F~ Acn.Wlat:rac l:onsa,sc for da;,ltiire =mticrs an:! hi<ti t:arp21:ature3 
H  L  
Friday  C  68  61  
Saturday  ~'  73  57  
Sunday  <:~\  63  44  
Monday  ~  54  40  
Tuesday  ~59 43  

(;.~~-Ll<)AQ ~ ~1 ,r'\ 
SlmWPrs T-storms Rain Flurries Srlo~, rce Sunny Pl. Clourly Clourly V)a AS50C1ated Press Graph:.::SNS( 
UNIVERSITY OF UTAH 
Football player assaults student 
SALT LAKE CITY 

Sean Patrick O'Keefo, a walk-on member ol' thP University of Ltah l'ootball team. was charged with attempted murder and aggravated assault Wednesday for his alleged involvement in a weekend altercation. O'Keefe, a freshman dr,fensivc end from Sandy, Utah. allegedly hit 17-year-old Nathan Phr.rson over the head with a baseball bat at a party early Sunday morning. causing Pherson to be sent to University IIospital with life threatening hr.ad injuries. The incident occurred at approximately 1 a.m. Ailegedly, O'Keefe hit Pherson so hard that the bat broke. Pherson was originally treated in the hospital's Intensive Care Unit. but has sincr. been moved from the ICU and upgraded to fair r.ondition. according to hospital spokesman John Dwan. Pherson remains hospitalized with skull fracturr.s and internal bleeding. One doctor said he "could not believr that Pherson was still alive," given the seriousness of his injuries. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 22. 
Lines separate high temperature zones lor the day.


C 2000 AecuWH1her. ,nc  COLU  WARM  STATIONARY  
P,,•B!!Ufl'• ® ©  D  D  D  D  D  CJ  
High  Low  Sh!'>W~r•  Rain  T-rtorma  Flurrh!a  Snow  '"  Su"ny  pt_ Cloudy  Cl"udy  
II)'~ A~soc;aier1 P,~ss  
Atlanta  86  70  Las Vegas  89  69  Portland  74  47  
Ball,more  74  60  Memph,s  81  73  Sacramento  84  55  
lloston  71  55  Milwaukee  59  57  Sr. LOUIS  82  69  
Chicago  ,1  64  New York  71  58  Tampa  90  75  
Houston  88  75  Philadelphia  74  60  Wash DC  74  62  

Friday, September 22, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
O'Kane's estate bestows University with $88,232 gift 
By JARED JODREY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame recently received a donation of $88,232 from the charity of late University alumnus Francis O'Kane. 
()'Kane. a former corporate lawyer, drugstore ownnr and World War II veteran. died at age 89 in 1997. Following the death of his wife. l\lary, last May, Renaissance, Inc., a snc:ial capital company with a mis­sion to "incrPase the quantity and quality of philanthropy in this coun­try." delivered his hcquest, totaling $:153,000. 
O'Kane had· established a charita­bk remainder trust in 1995. to the four institutions that had profound 
effects on his lil'P. In front, eventually addition to Notre being stationfld on 
Dame, donations "[He was someone the French and 
went to the other two interested in] ez,erything German border. schools he attended, Upon returning to
involved in life."

the Fordham the United States Preparatory School after the war, he in NRw York, and Joan Pfitzner proceeded to take llarvard Law School, over the family busi­
O'Kane stepdaughter 

as wPll as the ness, a drugstore in Calvary Hospital, in the Bronx. He mar­New York, where his ried his wife in mother was a patient 1993. prior to her death. Joan Pfitzner, All of tho donations were of equal O'Kane's stepdaughter, described amounts. him as a "quiet and congenial" man 
After graduating from Harvard Law who was very intellectual. He was School, O'Kane worked for several both intcrnsted and active in politics years as a corporate lawyer until the throughout his life, she said. outbreak of World War II in which hn In addition, O'Kane was an avid fan served six years on the European of Notre Dame football, spending many Saturday afternoons glued to the television to watch the games. Pfitzner praised her stepfather and said he was someone interested in "everything involved in life." 
The trust that Kane set up allowed him and his wife to use the money they invested to live on until they both died. The remainder of what they did not use was to be donated to designated charities. 
Cary Solida of Renaissance, Inc,, believed that the funds allotted to Notre Dame were "unencumbered" and were sent to the development office for their use in whatever area they deemed fit. 
Renaissance, Inc. administers over 5,000 charitable trusts and each year directs an a\'crag<' of $25 million to charities. 
{-;.:"\Z 

..,FOR ACELEBRATION 
•' At.~ OF GREAT TASTE! 
,/•. ;:.,joy generous portions of Italian entrees and pastas like 
• Shrimp Farfalle  • Chicken Parmesan  
• Pasta con Fbllo  • Shrimp Ravioli  
• Chicken Scallopini  • Salmone alla Griglia  

Papa recommends beginning your celebration with our 
Bruschetta -a crusty Italian baguette topped with ripe 
Roma tomatoes, Balsamic vinegar and fresh basil. 
Delizioso! 

5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 
219.271.1692 RESERVATIONS ACCEPTED HOURS: 
Sunday -Thursday 11:00 a.m. -10:00 p.m. Friday -Saturdayll:OOa.m.-11:00p.m. 
·. 

Accounting department maintains high ranking· 
By NATASHA GRANT News Writer 
The accounting department is again ranked No. 6 and No. 11 for undergraduates and graduates respectively in a survey by the Public Accounting Report. The results are based on a poll of faculty at accredited accounting lot of credit goes to how suc­cessful our students are when they leave Notre Dame." he said. 
Students with a Notre Dame degree in accounting have even better chances at finding jobs suitable to their fields. The students' curriculums lead "directly into services such as tax, assurance services, finan­

programs. "Making sure that the The depart­
faculty has enough

ment was 
time for curricular 

able to keep its high rank­development keeps us at ing by "main­
the cutting edge ofa

taining a 
rapidly changing field.·· 
quality cur­riculum" which is "a 
Thomas Schafer 

continuous 
department chair of accountancy
challenge," 
according to Thomas Schafer, department chair of accountancy. 
"Making sure that the faculty has enough time for curricular development keeps us at the cutting edge of a rapidly changing field," Schafer said. 
Schafer also said the student body is a great reflection of the department's success. "A cial repre­sentation and man­agerial ace," s a i d Schafer. 
He said that the high rankings helps to attract recruiters and recruits alike. The ranking " h e I p s 
attract top students" for both graduate and undergraduate programs as well as the big businesses looking to recruit students right out of college 
Just recently, a fifth year was added to the accounting department. 
"I am pleased with Notre Dame's placement in the rank­ings," said Paquita Friday, professor of accountancy. "However, I believe that once the five-year program is more established, it will be ranked 
· higher." The additional year is optional. "Since the majority of students in the five-year pro­gram have Notre Dame degrees, the coursework is dif­ferent," Friday said. "I think that students decide whether to stay based on their state's requirement for the CPA exam." "It depends on what you want to do," said Natalie Morgan, a prospective accoun­tancy major. "If you want to get your CPA to work with the public, you stay for the fifth year. If you want to work for private corporations, you stay for only four years." She said that the No. 6 and the No. 11 rankings were well deserved and called them "a very fair assessment." "The University employs great professors who are will­ing to go the extra mile to make sure that students understand the accounting process," l\lorga n added. "They also help students to be successful in their endeavors." 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 22, 2000 
Rodriguez celebrates Las Posadas at SMC 
. Jubilee Time: Chicana 2000 hosts third lecture. 
By KATIE MlLLER News \X!rit,·1 
Small childrPn drnss('(I as Mary and .losPph i(•d tlw way whilP pilgrims followpd 
behind: 
Sµanish cl a 11 1· P rs t[)ok tlw stagP al I.P M a n s II a I I ' s 
Staplt•to11 I, O ll 11 g P 
Thursdav. 
illuslrati11g t h (' !'v1Pxican 
f'nstival of L a s Posadas. 
T h P 

artivilit's 
"/ applaud Saint Mary's J<>r relating lo our culture. fl is important for rts to understand ourselves, who we are and where we come from." 
Jesusa Rodriguez 
speaker 

wp1•p part of' .Josusa Bodrigupz's "I.as Posadas -;\ l'ilg-rimagP to lhl' Inn." the third !Prl11r1• in LIH· .S(\rins lubilt•P Tinw: Chicana :moo. 
l\frxiran dancing and a rP­('IHlt'I mPnl of Llw Nativity gave 
Saint  Mary's  a  tastn  of'  
Ilispanir rnltun·.  
Wlwn  missionaries  lo  

l\frxk[) Wt'rn PvangPlizing the rvtl'xican JJPOpl1· rmo Y(~iU-S ago, thny ofton acted out storins from tlin llible, said Hodriguez, a f'irst-gp1wration Anrnrif·,rn who has bPPn a nwmbor of the South Bend community for 20 years. 
!:ii on on the existence of a Pxplai1wd. 
"Evolution is godless in tlrn same way plumbing is god­lnss," lw said. 
i\ft1·r tl1P end or the talk, nwny mPmlrnrs of the 1111di­c111'.1' questionnd Prnnock's bnliPfs and opposed his point of view. 
"Tht•n\ is in everv scientilic 

tlrnor} .. thing~ .we can't nxpla1n. he said 111 n!sponse to a statPmf'nt that then• ani 
"I applaud Saint Mary's for relating to our culture," Hodriguez told the audience. "It is important for us to 11nrlmstaml ourselvcs, who W(\ are and where we come rrnm." 
"I.as Posadas is tlw re-Pmtct­rnnn t of Mary's travel to Bnlhleliem; it has lwnn cele­brated by Mexicans !'or nHH'e than 400 ynars," sh(; added. 
planning for Las Posadas is do1w a gniat deal ahuad of time and is a time l'or family and learning. · 
"Mexican famili(1S always plan when Limy will have thl'ir parties and whose will be tlrn largest," she said. "It's an active way of teaching chil­dren about the Nalivily." 
Rodriguez brought visitors to rn-enact t.he pilgrimagn to tlrn inn. 
'Tm very prourl of' my cul­ture," Hodriguez said. "It is so beautiful. Such emotions am PXprnsse1d." 
Evolution 
continued from page 1 
evolutionary Llrnory does nnt have a god as its foundation. it docs not rule out a god as a pos­sibility. The theory itsnlf rloes not make a deci­
god, Pennock 

nH~jor holes in the cvidenc,~ for evolution. "But tlw nvidlince for (\Volution now is so over­whnlming." 
Tlrnrt• wus also discussion as to how Darwin's th1wry of natural selrcl.ion led to a social 
L a s Posadas lrngins on Dnc. 16 and ends on 
l)('(', 24. 
"The nine days signify n i n e months of' prng11ancy. When I.as Posadas is over, we have a lfos­t a . Rodriguez said. 
She said 
Darwinism 
Mendelson gift allows for new sports center 
Special to The Observer 
· Joseph 1\tendnlson of Santa 
Barbara Calif.. has estab­
lished ~ $2.5 million ondow­
nrnnt for Notre Dame's Cent(1r 
for Sport, Charactrr & 
Culture. 
A longtimn advisor to the 
Univt'rsitv. Mnnclolson is tho 
parent u·r two Notri~ Dame 
graduates, Patrick Mendelson, 
Class of 1984, and Hachnl 
Menclnlson Hire. a 1987 alum­
na. 
Mendelson was a chartnr mmnbl'r and servt'd as a cha.ir of thn advisory council for Notn• Dam11·s lnstitut(1 for · Church I.He l'rnm l <J80 t.o 1986. Ile also served 011 tho advisory council for l!Hl Snitn \1usnum of' Art from 1()86 to 
1989 and f'rom 1991 lo 2000. 
"Joe Mendelson has been 
extraordinarily generous to 
Notre Dame with his time. 
wise counsel and resourcns," 
said Lniversity Prnsident 
Fatlwr Edward Malloy. "llis 
commitnwnt to endow our 
Cnnwr for Sport, Character & 
Culture ensurns that this 1ww 
scholarly <'l1t<'rprise will con­
tin uc to provide insightful 
analysis 011 the ways in whirh 
sport can make positiv!' con­
trilmtions to the moral fabric 
of our society." 
MPndelson's interest in tlw Center for Sport, Character & Culture stems in part form his participation as a competitive international runner and from his work as a coach of high school track and cross country teams. including a state 

that was usrd to justify Nazi 
Germany. Pennock explained that it was not a direct result of evolutionary theory, but a twist­ing of the scientific theory to justify an Pvil cause. 
''People took fitter to mean better and hotter to mean good, and good to mean morally good." Pennock explained. "There is nothing in evolutionary theory that requires that kind of 
"Evolution is godless in the same way plumbing is godless." 
Robert Pennock 
speaker 
concJusiou. ft is µeopl1! impos­ing th<-,ir prior projud icrs on a theory." 
Pennock is an associate pro­fossur at Lyman 13riggs School at Michigan State and was namnd a national distin­guished lecturer for 2000­2002 by tlrn Sigma Xi Socirty. lie graduated with a bache­lor's degree in biology and philosophy from Earlham CollP-ge and earned his Ph D. 

in history and the philosophy of scioncn from tlw University of Pittsburgh. Pennock will also br spc1aking on Friday at noon on "The Fthical Challenges of Emerging Biotechnologies" in Stapltiton lounge. 
champion. in California. 
Tim Mendelson Center for Sport, Character & Culture. as it will be known, was estab­1ished in 1999 to promote sport as a means for ctevP,lop­ing and expressing various facets or human excellence, especially moral virt1w, and to olfcr a social criliquo or prac­tices that undnrminc tlrn potential of sport to build 
charactfn-. 
The center is directnd by tho wife and husband team of' Rrenda I ,ight Hrednnrninr and David Light Shields, two of' the nation's leading experts on the relationship betweon ath­letics participation and char­acter development. In addi­tion to !heir own )'(\Search. Bredemeier and Shields orga­nize seminars and confer­cncns, offrr cours(JS and workshops and stimulatr dis­cussion and consensus-build­ing concerning sports goals and practicrs. 
"We salute Jon Mendelson for his generous gift tu nndow our rnntnr." BrnclPmcier said. "llis support. both personal and l'inancial, will help us continun our resnarch into character dcv1! lopmcn t through sport and extend ·our effort tu develop programs that will maximiw the positivn role sport can play in partici­pant development." 
Mendrlson's nP,W commit­ment is a component of the University's Generations capi­ta I campaign. tlie largest l'uncl-raising effort in the his­tory of Catholic higher educa­tion. 
SafeRide 
continued from page I 
received rides each night. 
"It served as a way f'or kids to gnt back if tlrny were stranded off campus," Powers said. "It's a great sor­virn that. we'd like to soe con­tinue." 
Powflrs said that should student govcrnmnnt rnprc­Sfmtativ(is choosn to continue SafoHidn, hn would likf\ to soe thn program's hours nxpand­ecl to includn Thursday nights. 
But I.hat. could add morn stress to thn operating bud­g(1t of a projnct ()'Donoghue called "vnry <'xpensive to run." 
O'Donoghtw said tlrnt although SafoHido is prnsPnt­ly non-operational, l'unds hav<' still !men sd asicln for the program this year. Ile said that if tlw OITicn of' tlw Student Body opts to discon­tin uP Saf'eBidc, tlH' l'unds would bn dirncted PlsnwherP. 
"That monny would lw put into other wortlnvhill' enclnavors. But wp'Jl havP to make a decision about SafrHidn's future l'irst." lw said. 
got news? call 1-5323 


-. RLD ·NATION 
Friday, September 22, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
N. Korea. strengthens military: 
Despite its sevcrn economic crisis, North Korea has made major military improvements includ­ing placing large numbers of artillery guns and rockPt launchers near the DcmilitarizPd ZonP that separates communist North from the U.S.­backed South Korea. a Pentagon report says. It did not predict renewed war between the KnrPas. but strnssnd that "tlrn Korean Prrninsula remains a dangerous theater." 
Palestine willing to swap land: 
l'alPsti11ian lead<'r Y,\sscr Arafat is willing to tradP l;md in the WPst Rank for territory in Israel. a swap aiming to accommodate .Jewish settlers. an American .lowish lead1ff who met with him said Thursday. lsra1d .ind thP Palcstinians an' waiting for the llnitcd Statns to dncidc whethnr to offer bridging proposals to break the logjam in their 11egotiatio11s. offi­cials frorn botli sidos said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Teenage hacker gets six months: A tPPnager was snntenced to six months in jail Thursday after pleading guilty to l'edcral chargns of harking into NASA computers which support the international space station. The tPPll, nuw 16, also admitted he had illr,gally ('lltPrnd a Pentagon computer systmn. intr,r­cpptPd :l.300 P-mail transmissions and stol!m passwords. Tim .Justice Department said the young man was tlw lirst juvenile, hackm· to be incm-cPratml for computer crimes. 
Group criticizes Hindu prayer: The r:amily Research Council is complaining that an invitation to a flindu priest to give the prayer at the opening of' a House session is another indi­cation of the nation drifting from its Judeo­Christian roots. Last Thursday, a Hindu priest from Parma, Ohio, delivered the opening prayer to thP House in conjunction with Indian Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee addressing a joint meeting of Congress. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Woman steals money with promise of blessing: Fort Wayne police arc investi­gating a possible scam in which a woman promises to bless people's money and personal 1,JTects, then steals from them. At least one vic­tim lost jewelry and more than $1,000 cash earlier this month to a woman who calls herself "Alicia," said officer Caesar DeJesus. the Fort Wayne Police Department's Hispanic liaison officnr. The woman has been distributing com­puter-made business cards at local Hispanic grocery stores, DeJesus said. 
• 
Market Watch 9/21 

Dow 
10,765.52 +77.60 

]ONES 
CompositeUp: Same: 
Volurne:
1.086 480 "268.489,984 

AMEX: 927.75 ·9.02 
Na,daq: 3828.87 68.57 
NYSE: 654.23 +0.39 
S&P 500: 144905 -2.29 
• 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COM!'ANYISECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE ERICSSON I M-AllR ffRICYl 8.78 -l .,ROil 1(,.42 IN I El Clll\l' ilNTq r.?:. )J -I .)£i2!:i (,1.48 t:ISCO SYSTE,\1S ICSCOJ -3.l'"I -.!JH)'i{) !1 I, 12 DEi.i. t:OMl'UTEl\ (lll.11.l .1.r,1 -.62.2) .17.94 WIii [)COM INC 1WCOMJ -2. "4 -.6')2~ 26.62 
PERU 
Armed forces support Fujimori 
A~sociatc<l Prc~s 
LIMA 

After days of' silence that stirred fnars of a coup, the powerful armed forces sided publicly Thursday with President Alberto Fujimori in a politi­cal crisis over his dismantling or Peru's much-feared national spy agency. 
The declaration of military support. the first since Fujimori announced his move against the agency Saturday, appeared aimml at easing puhlic wor­ries in a country with a long history ol' military coups. 
It also appeared to quiet sprculation over who reallv controlled Peru: the president or his national intelligence chief. who is embroiled in a bribery scandal that is forcing Fujimori to cut short his presidency. 
But military experts cautioned that spy chief Vladimiro Montesinos rPmains powerful, with strong sup­port in the armed forcr.s, and is work­ing behind the scenes to elude prose­cution in the corruption scandal. 
A videotape distributed last week, which showed Montesinos apparently bribing an opposition congressman, sparked the political crisis that is end­ing Fujimori's decade-long grasp on power. 
In a joint communiquP, the com­manders of the army, air force, navy and police said they supported Fujimori's surprise weekend announcement he was deactivating Peru·s National lnte lligence Service and calling new elections in which he would not participate. Fujimori has said he will remain in power until July 
28. 
Analysts have speculated Fujimori decided to release his hold on power after he tried unsuccessfully to fire Montesinos, his closest adviser during his years in power. If he had not made the decision to cut his own term short. they say, he would have become a fig­urehead president. 
A skeptical opposition on Thursday demanded Fujimori guarantee a free and fair election of his successor, casting growing doubts on his stated plans to lr,ad his own transition from power. 
Alejandro Toledo, who mounted the only serious challenge to Fujimori's unprecedented third election, insisted Fujimori must step down immediately and let an interim government guide the election. 
"How do we, as Peruvians, return Peru to democracy and the rule of law?" said Toledo. a U.S.-trained economist. 
Political commen(ator Fernando 

Tuesta said Fujimori was intent on tightly controlling the transition and could not be counted out for a come­back. 
"I don't think Fujimori is the kind of person who will just go off and write his memoirs or give international con­ferences," said Tuesta. 
Military experts cast doubt on whether Fujimori was in control of the military, despite the communique pro­fessing support. 
"The president is mistaken if he thinks by communicating that the National Intelligence Service is being deactivated his adviser will be out of a job," said retired army Gen. Daniel Mora, a government critic. 
There were unconfirmed news reports that Montesinos had moved his command post from the air base that houses the intelligence service into the "Pentagonito," headquarters of the army. The army is the most powerful branch of the armed forces and Montesinos has hand-picked the generals who fill its key command positions. 
"Montesinos has decided who enters and leaves the army command," said political scientist Fernando Rospigliosi. "He manages the appara­tus through blackmail, espionage, extortion. They may eventually get him out, but for now I don't think Fujimori is charge of the situation." 
Rospigliosi said the military commu­nique appeared to be a move to ease public worries over the crisis. 
"They've done this several times before ... The communique is for pub­lic consumption" and is intended to make it appear Fujimori is in charge, Rospigliosi said. 

IRAN 
First solid-fuel missile test-fired 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN 

Iran has successfully test-fired its first solid-liquid fuel rnissilP, which the defense minister said was part of a program for launching satellites, the state news agency said Thursdav. 
Defense Minister Vice Adm. Ali Shamkhani said tlrn missile, the Shahab-'.-lD. would be used l'or non­military purposes, the Islamic Republic News Agency said. 
Shamkhani was quoted saying the missile was built by the national aerospace authority as part of a pro­gram for building rockets to launch satellites. He insisted Iran did not producr, offensive weapons, the agency added. He did not give the rocket's range or other details. 
In Washington, however, a senior Clinton administration official said that while Iran did conduct a test, it was not successful. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, gave no details. 
Earlier, a U.S. intelligence official, nobert D. Walpole, cast doubt on the success of the launch during testimo­ny to a Senate subcommittee hear­ing. · 
"They say it's successful. We're analyzing the data from the launch and we will tell you more ... but be careful when you get public announcements like this," said Walpole, of the-National Intelligence Council, a group of officials from major U.S. intelligence organizations that advises the director of the CIA. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 Friday, September 22, 2000 
Bush hits hot spots to sway fem ale votes 
A»ocia1cJ Press 
NliW YOHK 

For Lim sn!'ond limo this Wf't'k. (;t'orgP W. Bush will snt­tk into a T\' talk show's gunst chair. lhis timP 011 "Livo With H(•gis," in 
pursuit or 
f<'mal,i vot.­<' rs who !Pall lllOr<' Iowa rd l)(•morralir prPsidP11tial rival Al (;oro. 


T h t' Bush 
Bepublican 
prPsidcnt.ial nominne's app<'ar­11 ncn with Hngis Philbin on Thursday follows his visit 
Tuesday ~vith talk-show qmwn Oprah Winfrey, an hour-long C'.lrnt that advisnrs rated a "homn run" for its focus J>n Bnsh as a fatlwr and husbamL Sonw polls shoW(\d him running evnn again with Corn after P Ii mi nating sonrn of the l)pmoc,·at's rncPnt advances. 
Polls have shown fmnale vot­1irs with a preference have given Gore his strongest lead in months. A Callup survey releasnd Monday showed the vie!' president alwad by 1 7 points. 
Thr latlist poll from the Pew Hesearch Center showed Gorn leading among women on all tlrn issues they consider most important. from Social Security and MPdican• lo health care anct mlucation. Corp also has an advantage on proterting and sln•ngtlwning families, 44-:H, among women. 
Bui Bush lwlinves his nws­sagP will rPsonate if women !war nH>rP about his proposals to hold schools accountable for studnnl pnrformancP and learn ol' his dedication to his family. 
I lt>lping out, wifo I.aura was appParing Thursday on ABC's "(;ood Morning Anwrica." 
,\ftpr talking with Oprah about Pvnrylhing from his ckci­sion lo quit drinking to his l'arnritP food, Bush and his wil'n continued trying to soften his irnagp Wndrwsday at a town mP (' li 11 g o u tsid e Pi tls burgh wlwn• both Buslrns, mirro­pllo1ws in hand, took q1rnstions 
eCollegefoofoall.com 
jThe Marketplace! 
Bed N' Breakfast Registry Jayo'. Sn,igielski • Sta)' ifl ., "Home dose: w·the D()mc:" 219/232-0774 888/830-7722 http://husincss.mi,hiana.org/bnbrc:g/ 
TLF ENTERPRISES 
Used laptops, desktops, and upgrades 
288-0190 
Houses for Re11t l BR HOUSES 115 N, Walnut $495/Mth 1?10 Cedar St. S4S0/Mth 2 BEDROOM HOUSES 
1337 Fremont $550 /Mtb 1 BR APTS-MISHWAKA 
314 Well.'! -Sl00/Wk. 

l-800-328-1368 A Division of Culver Development 
l'rom the audi1~ncc. 
Bush also continued his focus 
on the vice prcsidnnl's credibili­
ty. 

IIP suggPstl'd that. Gori' "exaggerated the t.rulh to make a point about an nmntional issuo" on prPscription drugs Tlw Bush campaign has cha.1­lPn ged Gorp's assertion that arthritis rncdicirw f'or his muth­er-in-1 aw costs $108 a month whill' tlrn same formulation for their aging dog costs $37.80 a month. 
"I believe tlw vice prosident will say whatevnr it takes to get electnd," Bush said in an inti~r­view i11 Ne,v York on MSNBC. 
Big contributions, he said. seem lo have lrnlped soften Gore's criticism or ontertain­nwnt violen<:e aimed at kids, Busti said. 
"II seems like lw must hp auditioning for a Broadway play because he keeps changing his tnne," thP Texas governor said. 
Gore raised $4.2 million l'or the Democratic National Committee on Monday night in Beverly Hills, Calif., a week after he gave the entertainment industry six months to take steps to make sure violent lilms are not marketed to children and suggested sanctions if noth­ing is done. 
"At tlrn beginning of the week, he sounded awfully tough on Hollywood. Ile talked about six months, sanctions. lie talked a tough line," Bush said. "Arter a couple of fund-raisers. he's changed his Lune." 
At the California fund-raisnr, Gore and running rnatfl Joseph Li(1bcrman cased tlwir rhntoric. "We will nudge you but we will never become Ct'nsors," Lieberman said. 
Nader joins with celebrities to abandon two-party politics 
Associated Press 

FLINT, Mich. 
With Michal'! Moorn along for the ride. Green Party presidential candidate ltalph Nader stumped for votes Thursday among thii disPnfranchised in the city that helped him become a well-kuown consumer advocate and brought Moore filmmaknr fame. 
Both Nader and i\1oor(' asked supporters at a rally wlrntlwr tlrn town had made any progress under eight years of President Clinton. The answer: a definitive "No." 
Both blamed tho Clinton administration for failing to improve the quality of life in the city. 
"The unemployment rato and crime remain high, large industrial companies continue to shut down, and morn than two-thirds of the 
aroa 's school children rPrnain brdow tlrn fodcral poverty !Ave!," f\loore said. "All the problems WP had 10 · years ago we still have 
today." 

NadPr said Im found it 
more lhan "coincidental" 
that Clinton also was in Plint 
on Thursday ~ across the 
street rrom the rally. lie and 
Moore trier! to attend 
Clinton's event, but were 
turned away. 

"One of the greatest disemployers of Plint, Michigan, is William Jefferson Clinton," Nader said. referring to the impact of free trade agreements on the town. 
Urging supporters to "vote your conscience," Nader warned residents against picking the lesser of two evils in the presidential race ­Democrat Al Gore or Republican George W. Bush. He urged them against using the "least­worst approach." 
"If you reward both parties, those parties will only get worse nvery four years." 
Nader was attending another rally Thursday at Miehigan State University in East Lansing.
The city of Flint brought _____...., 
arlvocatc got its start with his 19(,S book "Unsaf'n at Any Speed." a harshly crit.ical look at li.S. auto manufacturing that focused on tlrn Grmcral Motors Corp. Corvair. Moore's 1981) documentary "Hoger & Mn" assajled the com­pany's actions in closing its Flint plant. 
Moore said G!\1 employed 40,000 in Liu· city in 1995. It is now down Lo 17,000, he said. "\/\/hat Gnneral Motors did to this city, tlwy can do anywlrnrn," Nader said. 
Both men wore introduced by l'ormPr talk show host Phil Donahue, who joined Nader on his "nonvolcr tour" through thn industrial Midwest, an area rich with battleground statPs considered tossups bf'twecn Gorn and Bush. 
Donalme first m<•t Nader as a radio reporter in 1965. "l lhink hn's always boon right on thP issues," Im said of NadPr. 

"Ifyou reward [Democrats and Republicans], those parties will only get worse every four years." 
Ralph Nader presidential candidate 
Donahue has anothnr connr,ction to the citv ­shortly after Moore 1;ro­d uccd "Hoger & Mo," its distributor, Time-Warner, had qualms about rPleas­ing it bncause GM was among its top advertisers. Donnhun then aired two back-to-back shows liv<' from rlint, lrnosting salos of' the movie. 
Earlier, '.'.Jadcr f'ocus<1d 
both Nadnr and Moore their first taste of notori­ety. Nader's high-profile carenr as a consumer 

For St. Mary's Swimming & Diving 

Program 

p. 
n 


CONTACT GRETCHEN HILDEBRANT (184-5548) 
ging rights. 

·.1.0Qlegiate Otyrnpic Medal Race is on! .the taJly with the GE College Medal "~tc:Bi only on tlBQOlymgic.S...c.o.m. 
on a "sliding backwards in environmental achievement," referring to further depletion of' the ozone layc1r, the incrr,aso of' global warm­ing and soil erosion, in a speech to students at thA University of Michigan-Ann Arbor. Ilo also cited the large number of workplacP dnaths due to trauma and industrial toxins. 
Nader also criticized his exclusion from next month's presidential debates, saying Bush and Gore won't address the issuns important to most Amnricans, including tho incrcaso in a living wago, a more balancnd transit systnm, free trade and laws making it oasinr for work­ers to unionize. 
..._ 

Friday, Septembe-r 22, 2000 
The Obsavrr . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 7 
Calendar of Events 
Friday-Saturday. September 22-23 St. Toe Hall 
Freshmen Retreat #30 
Saturday, September 23 Notre Dame· Room, Lafortune 
Asian Culture and the Biblical World Dr. Seung Ai Yang, Biblical Scholar 
University ofSc. Thomas St. Paul Seminary/School of Divinity St. Paul, MN 
Saturday-Sunday, September 23-24 Oakwood Inn Asian American Student· Retreat 
Sunday, September 24, 1:30 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Felipe Morel, csc 
Monday, September 25, 6:00 p.m. Lafortune Ballroom 
Emmaus Kick-Off 
Monday-Friday, September 25-29 103 Hesbw,:gh Library 
Sign-up, Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #63 (Nov. 3-5, 2000) 
September 25-0ctober 30 103 Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #31 
(~ov. 3:-4i J000) . .. . , ~ •·..··• Targeted D~rms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Keough, Howard, Dillon, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, Sorin 
Tuesday, September 26, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, September -26, 9:00 p.m. Corby Hall 
Information Session on Holy Cross I>riests and 'Bp>thers 
Wednesday, September 27, 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night•Pray~r 
Twenty-fihh Sunday in Ordinary Tame 
Weekend Presiders 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, September 23 Mass 
5:30p.m 
Rev. Gary S. Chamberland, c.s.c. 

Sunday, September 24 M~s 10:00a.m. 
Rev. Thomas P. Doyle, c.s.c. 

11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Richard V. Warner,_c.s.c. > 

Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday .,,, .. 
1st Reading Wis 2:_ 12, 17-t.q)fr/:.<
. ' ....,. ,·_·.• 
-~~-•_:::~;,• l-.,\•ft. 

2nd Reading Jas 3: 16 -4:3_ -;-;;·",.,,.. 
'!~ ,:.::. ~-~-if~ ,..:" 

Gospel .Mk 9: 3Q..;;.37 
Follow the Road to True Fortune 
by Amy Seamon 
Iwent for a walk this past weekend. My mom, dad, and some friends came down from. Grand Rapids, Michigan for the football festivities and were anxious to tour campus. We met at my house, took a left out the front door, saw the golden dome and as cliche as it may sound, I started heading home. We headed down Notre Dame Avenue pointing out all of the beautiful landscap­ing and seeing taxis cart students away for a nice quiet meal with friends. Our first stop was the bookstore where for the first time since I can remember my dad did not buy a single thing for my mom or me, but we did get to see the "real Rudy." We then stopped for a bite at Reckers and I could not help but recall some of my late night trips for a smoothie with my girls from McGlinn. I took them to see my new office. Then we headed to the grotto. I walked past my favorite bench by the lakes, noted many couples raking romantic walks, and then walked down the road that simply calls for me to follow the light. I cannot tell you how many times I have walked this road before. I graduated from Notre Dame just four short months ago. I find myself in a very familiar place without the hassle of classes and homework. Like many Seniors, in the final months before graduation I panicked about my future and realized that, if I could do college all over again, I would probably have been a Biology major and not English. But life has a funny way ofworking itself out and I have been blessed with an internship at Campus Ministry. I am working with some of the best people on this campus. My mom, Mrs. Dilorenzo and I went to light our candles as my dad and Mr. D. stood watch. I walked ahead of the girls, found my "usual spot," lit a candle for an unexpected intention, and then I wept. I cried like a little girl. Suddenly, I realized . . exactly where I was, who was with me, and why I wasA routine fr,p there. My worries and personal stresses from the past weeks exploded and I felt myself growing weaker. My full to the grotto calendar, challenges with relationships, and transition became a from student to staff became, in that moment, too much for me to handle. Who would have thought that my rediscovery mom would be there to make it all better? A routine trip to the grotto became a rediscovery of family, God, andof family, myself. There are so many times in our daily routines when God,and we take for granted the path we are following. Whether it is the path we follow to the grotto for a prayer around
myself. 
finals time or the quad we walk down to get to work or 
class, no two days can or ever will be exactly the same. 
And it's not just our paths we should be concerned with. We are called to be a light for one another and help each other find the path that leads us closer to God. After the death ofJesus, two disciples met a stranger along the road as they journeyed to Emmaus. Conversing and debating about the events of the past few days, the disciples did not even recognize that it was Jesus walking beside them. As they approached the village, they invited the stranger to stay with them. While they sat together at the table the stranger took the bread, broke it, and gave it to the disciples. The disciples' eyes were opened and they recognized the Risen Christ. "Then they said to each other. 'Were not our hearts burning within us while he spoke to us on the way and opened the scriptures to us?" (Luke 24:32). 
Many students within the Notre Dame community have expressed the need for a place where they can gather and share their faith journey while reading and reflecting upon scripture. Campus Ministry listened and created Emmaus. By joining a faith­sharing group, you join a community that promises to be more than just another "club" on the resume or appointment in your date book. Forming an Emmaus group can mean gathering new and old friends to share what is most important in our lives. I pray that your hearts might burn with the same fire as the Lord walks with you and explains che scriptures to you as you continue your faith journey. 
A life of faith shared in community demands commitment. Emmaus is an opportunity to mature in faith and build an intimate and trusting environment that will allow you to address some oflife's most important questions with people who are there co support you and grow spiritually in a communal setting. I pose this challenge to you: commit yourself to an Emmaus group for a semester. Campus Ministry can form a group for you. Or ask people in your hall section to form a group. Maybe some friends in a choir or an athletic team would like to pray outside ofweekly rehearsal or practice. RA's could form a group and take chis time to talk about the struggles and rewards of each week. Emmaus is for everyone and anyone. 
Follow the road to true fortune. Make your Emmaus group a place to come home to, a road you can keep traveling on to continue your journey of faith and nurture lifelong friendships with one another. Take the time to build a community of faith venturing down a new and exciting path and I promise your journey will be blessed . 
For more information about Emmaus contact Amy Seamon at Campus Ministry•• 
in Badin Hall at 631-3389. The Emmaus Kick-off celebration is Monday, September 
25th at 6:00p.m. in Lafortune Ballroom. All are welcome! (AMPUS 
MINISTRY 


page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 22. 2000 
u 
achi givi 
y 
a 
I 
SU 
C 
t 
D ·• ... 
Venue;~~: 
Time:.6:Q.9
Busi> ··· •_v 
Pl . 
www.ubs .. 
' .. .
*UBSvw ..·.. 


Friday, Seplcmber, 22, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ENGLAND 
Attackers blast headquarters, cause liillited dainage 
Britain's intelligence abroad. • Branch. said that at CJ:45 p.m. Associated Press 
Witnesses rnportcd hearing "an objnct was fired at Vauxhall two 1ixplosions, large nnougb to Cross, which is thn headquarters
LONDO!\' 

send up a plume.of white smoke of tho Secret lnt11lligence
Unknown altackr·rs l'irnd a 
and to rattl<-1 buildings across a Servicn." 
"small missil<'" at tlw lwadquar­railway. The blast brought lirn-"An examination of thn exteri­tPrs of' Britain ·s Ml6 intelligcncn lightPrs, police and ambulances or of tlrn building showed that agPncy in ('('ntral London lal!i 
to t.hn site on the south bank of some form of small missile has 
Wednesday, causing an explo­
the Hiver Thames. and police hit the exterior at about the sion on tlw nighth floor, police closed the an,a around the head-eighth l1oor," ho told a news con-said. quartnrs. rercncc. 
The blast rnuS<\d limitPCI dam­Police Deputy t\.ssistant J\skml if Urn object was like a agn and nn injuri(~S at tlw 10-Commissioner Alan Fry, in mortar sh<-111, lrn said Im doubted 
. story strurturn at the heart of' charge of tlw Anti-Terrorist it was that powerful. "In all probability I would doubt it is a mortar -I would havo expected more substantial damage,'' he said. 

Fry said it vvas too early to say if Irish rnpublican groups might b<-1 involved. "Clearly w11 have to keep in mind the capabilities of dissident Irish groups. but at this stage we will not be ruling out any group who might see the secret intelligence service as a target," Fry said. 
The blast caused minimal 
damage and th8 work of tlrn intelligencn service was not dis­
rupted, he said, adding that no claim of responsibility for the
-2 Bdrm Apts Available 
attack has· bmm mad<-1. Foreign Secretary Hobin Cook. 

-Student Leases Available whose department is responsible for MIG, said there wern no casualties.
-Under $500 per Mo.nth The 10-story. cream and green modern-style structure was fea­
-4 Blocks From Campus tured in tho James Bond movie, "The World is not Enough" and in one scene was shown being
-2nd Semester Availability blown up by a terrorist bomb. Police immediately closed off roads leading to the area. locat­
"The Best Value In Off Campus Livingr' 
ed between Vauxhall and Lambeth bridges over the River
Professionally Managed by 

Thames. Ollicers in yellow slick­Rea! Estate Management Corp. 
ers cordoned off the building, barring even police cars from
234-9923 

csc John Giuliano speaks on "Living Faith and Justice: Building Con1munity in Post-War 
CENTEQ. FO,i 
El Salvador" 
SOCIAL 
Monday, September 25, at 8 pn1CONCERNS DeBartolo 138 
* 
The struggle for human rights: resisting economic and political oppression 

* 
A critical look at US involvement in El Salvador during the civil war and now 

* 
The call of the Gospel: building the Christian community 


<El 
.ntfy 1as Tefugees. Up 
land, theY.svere faced ,vith the challenge of re8tiildh1 munities that had been destroyed by the violence 9( John Giuliano, 14-year resident of El Salvador, has 
key role in the rebuilding of the repatriated c01nm Guarjila. Through his youth organization, Los. Tani'·· ~~ntinues. fS>work to heal the scars left by tl:le., 
·"'to build the Christian con1n1unity. Guarjil SC' .. al S 
* This event is co-sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies, the Theology Department, and the Catholic Social Traditions Department. 
passing the bar­
riers. The London Fire Brigade had two lire engines and crews at the scone. 
"We just heard two God­almighty bangs, a loud one first, and then another one. said Theresa Harding, 68, who lives nearby. 
300 yards 

"Wo honestly ­
~ 

th</ught it was fireworks." 
One witness. Andrew Pre8ce, told BBC News 24 he was dri­ving home when he saw a flash of light coming From the top of the MI6 building. 
"It looked as of ii was internal from the center of the building but 1.hfl f'lash of' light was from the top or the building," he Buckingham Palace ­
4km 

said. "lt was fol­
lowed by a large bang and the ground seemed to shake and my car was shak­ing." 
Earlier this year, the Foreign Office said it was tightening security procedures after report­ed lapses. 
In March, a laptop computer that contained missing training information for one of Britain's spy agencies was mislaid and recovered by police two weeks later. News rnports sugg8sted that an M16 ag8nt left the laptop in a taxi after sp<-1nding a night 
AP 
drinking al a bar near the agency's headquarters. 
M!6, formed in 1921, is responsible for foreign intelli­gence. It is thought to cooperate closely with the domestic securi­ty service MIS in keeping track of Irish terror groups. 
The high-tech spy headquar­ters bristles with security fea­tures. Much of the complex is below street level to protect the most sensitive areas from terror­ist attacks. 
One environment. One simple way to care for it. 

Earth Share 
www.carthsh~re.org 

ATTENTION SOPHOMORES!!! 
Do you want to get involved in JPW 2001? 
This year's Junior Parents' Weekend committee is looking for a sophomore chairperson. This is your chance to get involved in this exciting event prior to participation next year, so 
APPLY NOW! 

**Pick up an applicati<m in the Student Activities office (315 LaFortune)** **Return applications and sign up for an interview in 315 Lafortune by Friday, October 6th •• 
Questions? Call Meghan Gallagher at 4-3808. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER. Friday, September 22, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 1124 South D1111ng H,111. Notte D,,me. IN 46556 
EDITOR 1:--1 CrnrF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  8USINE5S MANAGER  
'.'J(irct·11 Cillesp1c  Tim Lane  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGhR  
Christine Kealy  Brian Kessler  

NEWS ElJ!TOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VrEWl'OINT EDITOR: Lil, Ilaughey SroRTS EDITOR: K,rry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAnY's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO El>ITOR: Elizabeth I.nag 
ADVF.RTISING M11NAGER: P:11 Peters AD Of.SIGN MANAGER: Chris :\vila SvsnMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEil ADMINISTllAT0II: Adam Turner C0i'/lROLLER: Buh Wood, GIL\l'IIICS EDITOR: Jose Cuel!Jr 
CONTACT Us 
OFHCE MANAGER/GENfRAL Imo............. 631-7471 F11x ............................................................631-6927 AllVERflSfNG...................................6j l-6900/8840 
ohserver@darwi n. cc. nd.ed u EDITOR IN CIIIEF.. .. ..................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME. ...................651-454 l BUSINF.SS OFFICE..................................631-53!3 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
nbserver.obsnews. l@nd.edu V!EWl'OINT ..............................................631-530.o ohserver.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS ..............................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE...... ....................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MARY'S .........................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEil ADMINISTRATORS ................651-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit ollr Web site athttp://obsemer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, foatures and opinion columns. as wdl as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
weekly student reviews
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 
and rates ofprint ads 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
to meet rhe editors and
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the UnivcrsiryofNnrre D;ime du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content. including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration oreither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Ediror in Chid; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edirnr and department editors. Cornmentarics. lerrers and co1urnns present the views oftlit· authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Yinvpninr ,pace is available to all reader>. The free expression ofall optntons chroui;h letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor mus1 be signed and must include comact information. 
Qur.flon, rtgrud,ng Oh,m,erpolicies should br direa­ed 10 F.ditor w ChiefMike Connolly. 

Questioning ticket allocation for away games 
At lasL Friday's pep rally, hei1d coi1ch be virtually silent.Tho intens.ity and vol­Hob Davir, thanked the student body for Um'P. gornirated by the l 0,000 students at their support at the home games will be signifi­Nebraska game and cantly reduced. Only 196 said he didn't see a OJhe students received tickets single red shirt in userver through the Student Union the student section. Board ticket lottery. Only Ile acknowledged 196 students could win tick­that the student ets because the University 
Editorial
bodv are alwavs the allotted only 200 of the moil emotional and 5,000 Notre Dame tickets most vocal supporters of the Irish foot­for student mm. ball team. The University has set aside 1,500 tick­
But this weekend. in a critical road ets for internal University use and 3,300 game for the Irish against the Spartans tickr,ts for alumni. Considering thA large of Michigan State. the student body will number of University oflicials and alum­ni that sold tickets to '.'icbraska fans. it is especially disheartening to see these samH groups receive priority over stu­dents. 
When the Irish need strong support from their fans in a tough road game, they need student support. They need to hPar more than l lJ(i of their classmates screaming in the stands. 
Unlike games played in Orlando or Los Angelos, games in East Lansing arc rea­sonable day trips from South Bend. If the University would allot more of its away tickets, especially for nearby games, thf1 students could support their tPam in the stands and not from their couches. 

Tracking the presidential race 
The current 01,vmph: Games competi­tinn in Australia is the half-time enter­tainment !'or the presidential race. Tho Uemocratic and 
Republican teams are in the locker room preparing for the final five weeks of r,arn­paigning that include three debates, ultimately determining the 


outr,ome of the 
Gary Caruso

election. H is remarkable how the "preseason" 
Capital

polls do not reflect 
Comments

the current score on the board. Al Gore has the momentum and the lead coming out for the second half of action. 
Some, mostly Democrats but several impartial observers, believe that the race has already been decided with George 
W. Bush's three gaffs prior to the Olympic competition. They contend that Bush really is not up to the task of the presidency and has reinforced that notion. 
Republicans, along with many whom have not really been paying much atten­tion to the campaign, are confident that Bush can regain those supporters he recently lost to Gore. The Democrats, along with some pollsters and impartial academic researchers. see Bush's ero­sion of women, for example, as a perma­nent departure to Gore because women are part of Gore's base, which he has solidified. 
The half-time analysis is threefold. First of all. Gore has moved the debate of the campaign to his strength issues. 
Secondly, Bush's campaign rhetoric of leadership, having a new tone and bring­ing both parties together has been sym­bolically undermined by his campaign's and the Republican National Committee's actions. 
And lastly, Gore's strategists are more focused on the issues and have kept him on track while Bush ·s strategists are let­ting disdain for Pr<'sidcnt Clinton doud their candidate's campaign direction. 
This election is paralleling the 1988 election when Vice President George 13ush ran against Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis. Dukakis had led by about 17 points until Bush stormed out of his convention, surged ahead in the poll and n·ever looked back. 
The exception to the similarities of the two elections is that in 1988, elder Bush attacked with hot-button issues in two areas. Ile portrayed Dukakis as unpatri­otic (an effective practice used by Republicans during the Reagan years). He also used an African-American con­vict, Willie Horton, released by Dukakis and who subsequently murdered again, as the example of Dukakis being soft on crime. Many have called those ads effec­tive race-baiting techniques that also portrayed Dukakis as too liberal to be president. 
This year, Al Gore has stormed out of his convention with momentum that has been sustained thus far. He effectively has shifted the campaign on his turf issues. By spelling out in great detail his prescription drug proposal and budget priorities, he has drawn Bush away from his original game plan of making charac­ter and compassion the main themes of his campaign. 
Without the overt negativity of the 1988 campaign, Gore is successfully implying that Bush is a lightweight with "me too" proposals who cannot compete when it comes to offering government programs. Some even interpret Bush's kiss of Oprah this week as a "me too" effort to woo women like Gore did when he kissed his wife at the convention. 
Also, Bush's campaign rhetoric has touted his leadership. ability to unite both parties and willingness to bring a new tone to Washington. Yet events of the past few weeks have symbolically undercut and contradicted his message. His gaffe at an open microphone when he called a New York Times reporter "a major league a-hole" eroded his "new tone" message. The following week when a R'.\lC ad had "RATS" superimposed ov0r /\I Gore's prescription drug propos­al, that nasty tone symbolism completely dm,troyed any attempt Bush had to l'ur­ther resonat<' that message. 
Purlhermore, Bush's handling ofthe "debate on <lebatcs" made him scPm like a kid who would tako his ball home if'thn ganrn was not played his way. Early on in the week when he announeed which dPbates he wa11ted. Bush show,~d no leadership or ability to negotiate with the Gore campaign like he linally did when the two sides cventuallv discussed the debate formats. The RNC's ads criticizing Gore's so-called flip-flop on the debates tried to resurrect the character issue, but was roundly rejected by voters when aired on television. 
Finally, Republican dislike for Bill Clinton is so intense thnmghout the party's ranks that it is keeping some Bush campaign strategists from seeing the trees from the forest. Early after the Democratic convention, Al Gore separat­ed himself from Presidr,nt Clinton much like older George Bush did from Honald Reagan in 1988. Once the American pub­lic saw Gore as his own man, tho charac­ter weaknesses Bush had run on were no longer viable in the minds of' indepen­dent voters. The Bush campaign's efforts to resurrect character will be seen as a negative attack and backfiro if Bush con­tinues in the coming weeks. Someone should tell the Bush folks to focus like Bill Clinton's staff did in 1992 when their motto was: "it's the economy, stupid!" 
Closely watch the national poll num­bers prior to the debates. Only the Voter.com poll has Bush ahead by a point. If Bush cannot bump Gore in the traditionally Hepublican-leaning Gallop poll, most toss-up state polls will tend to also support Gore. Those who am count­ing on voters who have lcf't Bush to swing back to him need only to ask themselves, "how many times haw~ I had an initial impression, changed it and then bounced back to my initial impres­sion?" It doos not happen often.and that spells troublr. for George W. Bush. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73. is serving in President Clinton's adminis­tration as a Congressional and Public Affairs Director and is currently assist­ing Vice President Gore's White /louse Empowerment Commission. 
The views expressed in this column are those <?f the author and nut necessarily those of71ie Observer. 

SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 


I FIGURED OUT

I HAVE THREE FAKE 
THIS TO-DO WHY YOU NEVER
EMERGENCIES, ll..JO 
LIST WILL ASK ME HOW MY 
DOOMED PROJECTS I
MAKE M£. MORE DAY WENT. 
FOUR UNNECE55ARY MEE.TINGS ... 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/just received the following wire from my generous Daddy -'Dear Jack. Don't buy a single vote more than necessary. I'll be damned ifI'm going to pay for a landslide.'" 
John F. Kennedy 
U.S. president 

VIEWPOINT 
O
TIIE Friday, September 22, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
Unravelling the mystery of ND ROTC 
Just across Junipor Road, on the outskirts of campus, tlwrc is a building. In fronl of that buihJiug there are flags seen nowhere else on this campus. lnsidf'. images of tightnr planes adorn the classroom walls, Them is Pven a room reforrnd to as the warrior lounge. Only about a Shawn wnth or the stud1rnt body has ever T. Storer spent a wnsiderablo amount of time in this building and unless 
Catholic 

vou have had a class scheduled 
Perspectives

tlwrn bocausi, no otlwr spare was 
on ROTC

available, you probably ref'er to it as '"that building ar.ross the road wlwrc the HOTC kids go." 
For those of us not i11 HOTC lherc are subtle but con­stant rorninders that ROTC is prnsent herp on campus. Occasion ally. a stud<!n t in a camouf"laged uni form appPa rs in our dassns and takns notes or falls asleep just as anyotw clse would. Almost f'vory student has had a dorm scction-matn in ROTC. But it seems that whal stuchmts in HOTC do is of little concPrn to the rest of us. ThP.y wake up mirly in· tlrn morning for their physical training cx,,rcises, long beforn the' majority of I.his cam­pus rises. On many an afternoon, thny move in uniform and in exodus to thn Pasqunrilla Building -"over there. across the mad_" Our Pxposure to what ROTC does is. however. limit.Pd in that we watch the color guard march across Uw finlct before cwry football game ilr we rnlch a glimpse of a late-night "shm,-shining party" in a dorm loung11 as studnnts in HOTC prepare for the next day's inspection. , 
l think it is fair to say that Notre Dame appears com­fortable with HOTC. From those in ROTC who are condi­tionPd and trained to be able to take anotlrnr human life as a tool of waging war; to those not in ROTC who appear largely indilTPrnnt to its presence here. Those who do not even bat an eve wlrnn fellow students return to campus from a ROTC: we11kPnd in full camouflage, lielcl goar and painted faces and ask no questions about what they wcr<! just trained to do. 
These dialogues, sponsorPd by Pax Christi l\il),.are at an rnirly stag<i. Their purpose is lo bring what goes on ··ovnr th('n', on the other side of the road" -in classes, in th1! 11arly morning hours at PT's, at weekend field training exercises and in summer training camps -to bring all ol' that over here to be examined and discussed by students, faculty, alumni and administrators. the rmlirP university community. What is at the center of tlwsc dialogues, the driving force behind them. is gen­uirw Christian concern. Concern for the students, con­C('rn about what they will on(l day be ordered to do. concern f"nr those giving those orders and concern for those who tht•y will b(l ordernd to do these things to. 
In our Catholic faith we haw two, long-standing tradi­tions: .lust War and l'acif1sm. I say that both are long­standing lwcause that is nxaclly Lhc case. Contrary to popular bPlinL pacifism did not start with the anti­Vietnam war sentiment of the 1960s. 
True Christian pacifism is rooted in tlw nonviolent life, l!Xample and teachings of Jesus; most especially in his death, in a crucifixion in which he not only rnfused to rl'taliatP against his executioners but that in his final moments ho forgave them. The martyrs of the early Christian Church continued this pacifism, some of them refusing Lo serve in the Homan military and facing ckalh for their decision. 
At a school so concerned with Catholic r.haracter and with observing and fostering traditions, what docs this say to us'? I think it says that the issues we are dis­r.ussing in the ROTC Dialogues are_ not new ones, and they am ones that we can not afford lo avoid. It is important to rPahzc that this is very much part of the Catholic Tradition. This is the voice that proclaims that Christians will not have this world bettered by the tak­ing of lifo and that killing one's enemy makes it impossi­blP to live .Jesus' command to love them. 
It could bP argued that in many ways Notre Dame has had a student population, though small in number, that has been in closer. consistent adherence to the tenets of Christian Pacifism than it has ever had in adherence to the Catholic Just War Tradition. 
It is true that within the Catholic Tradition there exists the long-standing framework of the Just War Theory, which argues that the taking of another life is permissible under certain very strict conditions, both prior to engagement in and during the waging of com­bat. Hut when seriously adhered to. the Just War position often arrives in a stance of nonviolence. 
In examining modern warfaro through the lens of the Catholic Just War theory. I.he question as Lo whether a Christian can even participate-\ becomes a very real onP. There arc several cases lhat require our con­sideration: the United States' dropping of the Atomic bombs on the peo­p Ie of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in the Second World War, the carrying out of the My Lai \ilassacre by Pirst Lieutenant William Calley and soldiers in the U.S. Army during Vietnam, and exam­ples of grave unjust disproportional activi­ty in the Persian Gulf War. 
We cannot pass over the Persian Gulf War too quickly for it is a war that in many ways has never ended. The United States continues to impose crippling eco­nomic sanctions on the people of Iraq, sanctions that have been vehement­ly _condemned by the Pope, numerous bishops, several international gov-,~,"!'.~.~_r_ ernmental authorities and countless others. These eco­nomic sanctions are imple­mented and carried out by peo­ple in the military, a military which somP of our university's stu­dents will find themselves a part in the verv near future. In addition to these sanctions members of the U.S. Air National Guard have killed more than 200 Iraqis since December of 1998 in bombings that are part of Operations Northern and Southern Watch. These bombings have garnered little attention from the media but are not only in violation of Catholic Just War theory, but also have no legal basis in United Nations resolu­tions concerning Iraq. 
Events such as these are a few clear examples of how partkipation in the military can mean participating in unjust and immoral warfare by Catholic Just War stan­dards. We must recognize that if it is the case that there are times and situations when the interests of the United States government and military are in tension or even direct conflict with the mission and ends of the Catholic Church, then it is crudal and necessarv that we must consider a tangible incorporation of Catholic Just War education in the ROTC program and curriculum. 
For those in ROTC that consider themselves railed to bear a Christian witness in the military, I offer you this thought. If a Christian witness is possible in the military then it is only possible if the Catholic .lust War Theory is studied, considered and adhered to. Some students at the dialogue spoke about their struggles and considera­tion with the call of Christian charity and of one day being a part of the military. It became clear that many of those who spoke to this effer.t considered a good deal of what they spoke about because they took an optional Theology course entitled War, Law, & Ethics. 
If the University of l\,fotre Dame wants to truly 
form "more moral soldiers," then the Reserve Officers Training Corps Program must incor­porate and bo held accountable to tho stan­dards set forth by the Catholic Just War 
Tradition. 
It has now become obvious that there are students concerned about this issue in one way or another. Approximately one ·hundred stu­rlents would not be attending these ROTC Dialogues if that were not so. But also by attend­ing such an event. some stu­dents in HOTC might be sug­gesting that there has not been a sufficient opportunity for discussion and instruction about trying to effectively 
bear a Christian witness in this world while being a par­ticipant in the military. This points to a very legitimate need, a need that we can only begin to address by talks such as the ones we are sponsoring. 
In the encyclical Veritatis Splendor Pope John Paul II states that God never com­mands the impossible (Para 102-3). We gather together at the HOTC Dialogues to discuss and discern these most diffi­cult issues and how they affect our lives. We must take solace in the fact that our discussions and decisions, however difficult and uncomfortable they might be, !JJ, are not conr.erned with striving /; toward an impossible ideal. We are -attempting to put our Christian faith ,r,/ into practice, to discern how we can :,J!l·; best live lives of love in this world. We ~' cannot dismiss aspects of our Christian 

~• faith as being impossible, for that does nothing but erode and dilute Christianity, thus·quieting the Christian voice in the world. 
If we truly believe that Christ is the Light in the Darkness and that we as Christians are Light to the world, then we must see the world and all we do through the lens of Christ and the Gospel message. Light does two things: it helps us to see things more clearly, and sometimes it helps us to see things we have not seen before for the first time. It is time that we bring what goes on "over there, across the road" over here and examine it together with Christian eyes. I hope that these dialogues are a source of light to our university community in discerning how to live more loving, Christian lives and effectively preach the Gospel in this troubled world. 
Shawn T. Storer is a senior Arts and Letters major and is a member ofPax Christi. The l!iews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserl'er. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Questioning The Observer's independent status 
Though independence is a very important issue for community as a whole. affecting the community. Recent articles harshly criti­any publication (and l'vn s1,wn the contrary through my I speak primarily of' the "gay rights" issue. The cize the administration and arn not rnl<~vant to the work with former Soviet countries), The Observer has, Observer has 11aunted its independent status and mis­majority of Lhis campus. in recPnt years. exceeded its bounds to stress that represented the University by giving undue attr.ntion You do the math. indnpenclence in the face of the body which allows it to to events realistically unworthy of nxtcnsivc coverage. exist. In the process, The Observer has compromised the Jim Arkedis 
Tlwre is, undoubtPdlv, a difTcrnnce betweon an inde­tnrn meaning of "independent." A differencfl exists Closs of '99 pendent publication a·nd one printing articles overly between independent and flagrant contrarliction. Sepremher 21, 2000 critical o!' the administration (as !'runt page news) The administration allows The Obsr.rver to exist. The when that topic is, in truth, of minor significance to tho Observer has every right to print any story it sees fit as 


C s 

O
TIIE 

page 12 BSERVER Friday, September 22, 2000 
From ties to toga 
Anticipating football withdrawal this Saturday? Never fear 
Of course, this good time depends onBy KATIE MALMQUIST many things, and your date is often the
Scene W rirer 

number one factor. So what exactly makes a good date'? 
This weekend, the first away game of 
"Someone who is not looking for a rela­
the football season will mark the open­tionship!" said Ann O!fmiczak, a sopho­
ing of' another kind of' season on the 
more in McGlinn Hall. 

Notre Dame campus: SYR Season ... no, 
"[I] definitely want someone who can 
wait, that's "All Hall Dance" Season. 
dance, people who just want to cut loose. 
Formerly known as the SYR, the "All That's what it's all about," said Bauters. 
flail Dance" is as much a tradition at While some students feel that alcohol 
Notre Dame as pep rallies and the Alma can enliven the party, many students sayMater. It constitutes such an integral they don't need the beverage to spice uppart of dorm life that most freshmen their experience.
find themselves anticipating their first "[The dance] doe1, not have to involve 
0 
dance before they even step foot on 
alcohol," said Angie Gubana, a sophomore 
campus. 

in Lewis Hall. "As long as my date can 
The name itself is a throwback to the 
have fun without it, it's not a problem for 
depths of Notre Dame history, the lettMs me." 
stand for "Screw Your Roommate" and 
For most people, the biggest challenge is 
denote a time when roommates got to 
the actual hunt for the date. While some 
chose each other's dates -a situa­
popular methods include leafing through 


would be a] good idea if the SYR 
Ward. 

theme was really how it used to be 
Walsh freshman Cat Ruiz, on the other 
.. . (because] it would be a cool way 
hand, heard "that they we,.re a lot of fun . 
to meet someone," said Morrissey 
It's just that it's so early in the year, and 
Manor sophomore George Salib. 
you don't know anyone so it's kind of 
have a good time."

But not to worry, the All Hall Dance 
weird." 
And that is the goal, after all, right'? 

can provide many of the same opportu­
All the freshmen really need to do, though, 
Once the mad scramble for dates subsides,

nities. Take, for example, John 
is pay attention to their fellow upperclassmen 
and each Domer finds him or herself paired

Bauters, a junior from Keenan Hall, 
who have some great advice on asking their 
off for the night, the search for the appropri­

who can boast attendance at 29 
first date. 
ate SYR gift begins. The mall fills with guys

dances thus far in his college career. 
''Be persistent," said Brian Ostick, a sopho­
reluctantly purchasing various forms of

"~y freshman year, the girl I had 
more in Alumni Hall whu admitted to asking 
Backstreet Roys and 'NSYNC paraphernalia,

asked found out she had to leave town 
six different people before finding someone 
and the bookstore becomes a shot glass facto­

two days before the dance," said 
for his first dance freshman year. "There are
0 0 
ry.

Baut.ers. "The upperclassmen in my
0 hall made a game out of [finding me 8,000 other people on this campus who want But how do you find the perfect gift for your
to go Ito an All Hall Dance]." 
date? Students name gold fish, talking stuffed

a date)." Taking turns calling girls 
"Just ask someone you know you'll have fun 
animals, Nerf guns, and yes, Barbie Dolls (for 

off uf Bauters' T-shirt from the 
with," said O'Neill senior David Tyler. He says 
both guys and girls) among some of their

Graffiti Dance, the guys ended up 
freshmen should "use the dance as an ice
0 favorite gifts. Men, in particular, express a
buying dinner for the first one who 
breaker if there's someone you are interested 
great appreciation for sporting goods such as 

tion which proved advantageous if 
you had a good roommate, but had the poten­tial to get 
ugly, in more ways than one. 
Today, the process of 
0 
finding a date has evolved and most students fend for 
them­selves. The 


recent change in name, abandon­ing the familiar title of "SYR" in 
favor of"All Hall Dance," reflects the death of this tradition. 
There are those on campus, 
however, that would like to see this tradi­tion reborn. 
"[It 
found hi.ma date. 
in." 

"I had a really great time, and 
Elizabeth Caballero, a sophomore in 
we actually became very good 
Walsh Hall, echoed the same tips.
friends," Bauters said of the girl 
"You'll never have the guts to ask that 
he attended the dance with. "We 
crush again; that's the beauty of the 
are still close today." 

first dance of freshman year."
"The [dates] that are just random are 
"Remember that it's not a big deal ... 
the best ones for me," said off-cam pus 
it's not a matter of life and death,"
senior Jackie Schmidt. "When tl).ere are 
Schmidt said. "It's five hours with a 
no expectations it's so much easier to 
person and as long as you keep a casual 
just let go and have a good time." 
and open attitude you're guaranteed to 

Lyons · Friday, September 2, Lems J:<riday, Seprember~2 
Howa.1-d Satwday. Sepce,11be, 23 
PBi,lJuerilla Wesl Friday. Sepcember 29 Cavanaugh Pnclay, September ~9 
Walsh Friday, September29 
MrGlinn Satl..lIW:fy, Sepct'mlw.r 30 Breen-Phillips Friday, Sepreml,.,r 29 hu-ley Saturday, September 3u 
Pangborn Saturday. SeptemhPr :~o Badin Saturday. Novrmber 4 

Pasque.ri11a F.ast Saturday, November 18 
forward to it," said Dillon freshman Alan 
the dog book, 
finding someone 
outside the din­
ing hall an hour 
before the dance 
and the ever­
effective request for your room­mate's date to bring a friend, many students find ways that are, well, more 
creative. 
"Once, this fifth-year senior came up to me in the stir-fry line at the dining hall," said Schmidt. "The next thing 1 knew he had found my number ... it was totally random but I had a good time." 
This time of year, one can feel particular empa­thy for the fresh­men who still don't know a lot of people on cam­pus. What do they expect'? 
"I heard [All Hall Dances] suck pretty bad ... but I'm kinda looking 
1;0. SlinkyTEN. 9. Boxing Nuns

TOP 
8~· Pez dispensers

S1 R GIFTS 
·7_ Col ring _oak 

*Feel free to use this feature aq 
8¾ Twister)S

wrapping paper for future SYR gifts. 
C 

Friday, September 22, 2000 

~11E 
vnSERVER 

the Irish jig •
1s on 
4i) 


mini-basketballs or dart sets. 
"My friends and I are still getting a lot of use out of the boxing gloves we got one year," said Tyler, who laughed about using the gloves the next morning to duke it out and determine who had to clean up after their party. 
Quite often dorms will offer party favors bearing some epithet of the dance, such as key chains or T-shirts. While these favors have to be approved by Student Activities, H seems that fewer and fewer drinking-related t'avors are being made. 
Students looking for a more sentimental touch can choose hand-made gifts and cards. "One of my favorites was a hand-painted frame my friend gave me with a picture of us 
5. Dining Hall Items 
4. Live Animals ., 
3. Dead Animals (Steak dinner) 12.Stuffed Animals 1.Anything wrapped in The Observe 
in it," said Gubana. 
The right SYil. gift can always make for a good start to the evening, but when it comes down to party time, many agree that it is the theme of the dance that makes U memorable. 
"I just like it better when there's a theme," said McGlinn sophomore Jeanne Vencklase, who added that shedding the classic little, black semi-formal dress for a more outra­geous and unique outfit usually makes for a more exciting night. 
Some of the most engaging themes include Hawaiian parties, Harleys and Honeys, holi­day schemes, '70s/'80s nights, toga parties and floor division themes, where each half of a floor decorates with an opposite themP such as Heaven and Hell. 
There are a plethora of annual dances stu­dPnts mark their calendars and count off the days for. Usually held during the spring term when the absence of football season allows for a better dispersion of dances throughout the semester, these are the dances that 
the barbecue which precedes it. 
McGlinn hosts an annual Casino Night where each dorm resident invites multiple guests, male or female, to a night of gambling with fake money and fun prizes. 
O'Neill's Mardi Gras is com­monly known as one of the rowdiest on campus. Highlights include Thursday night's "King of Mardi Gras" competition, in which the men of O'Neill com­pete for the right to head the parade which kicks off the dance on Saturday afternoon. The men rile up SDH for dinner in their Mardi Gras costumes just before the parade, and then progress throughout the entire campus. picking up their dates along the way. 
"Guys 
are 

most people agree 
encour­

students must 
aged to

Male dornas'
attend before gradu­
bring 

ation. 
more

dance dates
Most revolve 
than 

around a holiday or 
one 


date,"
a special event, such 
said

as the Keough 
Tyler,

Chariot Races or the 
"so

Morrissey Christmas 
Dance, and many 
there 
gener­

extend over an 
ahm Friday. ~ptember :.:!2 
entire weekend. 
ally ends 
up being a

The Keenan 
J\f(m'issey ~ r'rida_y, September29
Revue, for example, 
lot more 

is always a big hit. 
girls than 
guys" ­

Accompanied by a 
Alumni Frida'r, September :;,9 
three-night perfor­
seemingly 


the appro­
mance of what 
promises each year 
priate fin­

to be side-splitting 
ishing touch 
to an annu­

sketch comedy, the 
actual dance takes 
al celebra­

place on Saturday 
tion of

Knott Saturday. Septc1nhfir 30
night about an hour 
hedonism 

after the final per­
and wan­

formance. It is the 
ton fun.

Sorin Saturday, SPl)tt!mber :w 
only dance with 
But of 
course,

extended parietals, 
St F.rlwarrls Prirlay, Ormhr:'T 6
stretching dancing 
isn't that 

hours until 3 a.m., 
what 

and the only dance 
SYRs are

Stanford friday October27 
accompanied by breakfast, as North 
Villon

Dining HalJ opens soon after towel-come the men of Keenan and their dates. 
This dance is so popular on campus that most guys do not even have to ask their own dates," said Bauters. "We usually get calls from everybody ... they are looking for tickets and really want to go." 
Another widely-anticipated event is Alumni Hall's Wake. "We feel the Wake is the biggest event on campus," boasted Ostick, who hap­pens to be one of Alumni's four dance com­missioners. Still, the Wake remains one of the most mysterious of all campus events as the men of Alumni prefer to keep most of the pro­gram a secret to their freshmen and most non­Alumni residents, "so it doesn't lose its mys­tique." 
What is known is that the night before the dance, the men lead a procession around cam­pus meant to emulate the old tradition of the Irish Wake, which was apparently a celebra­tion of life, death and the transition in 
between. Parading around campus wearing boxer shorts and neck ties, they bear not only their bodies, but also a coffin whose inhabitant remains a mystery to most Qll campus. This is followed by what Ostick calls "one big crazy party." 
The Lewis Crush is another popular All Hall event. The women of Lewis send anony­mous invitations to their "crushes" and reserve the right to approach their date, should he show up, either at the dance or supposed to be?
Saturday • .Df'f'Pmber;; 
Whether known as an SYR or 

All Hall Dance, it's meant to be a night for revelry with fellow stu­dents. 
It's important to not stress out about finding a date or worry too much about the perfect outfit, because most things considered, stu­dents will have fun at the dance. 
So to those whose dance season kicks off this weekend and to those whose semester-long battle for dates will continue well into December, have fun, good luck and happy hunting. 
(And to that guy who sits behind me in Econ with the rust-colored hat -are you busy next weekend? Because we have this dance coming up ...) 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

0 
C, 
0 
0 

-
-



page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 22, 2000 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Teamwork, defense key as Welsh takes on Lyons 
By JOE LICANDRO and JEFF 
BALTRUZAK 
Sports 'X'ri ters 
Thn ganrn between Welsh and Lyons on Sunday at 2:00 will bP a game of' polar opposites. 
Welsh. a team r,omposPd of nxp,iricnced velf\rans. is coming off a 29-h thrashing of Pasquarilla East. Tlw prndomi­n an tly inexperienced Lyons tPam is n•cling over their 26-0 loss to Cavanaugh. 
Welsh will be led by playmak­er .len Grubb. llowcver. as Coach C:.1sey Bouton points out, tlw true kev to Welsh 's success is their tc•an1work and dnfonsn. 
Houton is plr-ascd with his tt>am's effort in prac.tke and says his team is ready for the gamr. on Sunday. 

··we·w bP!'n practicing really hard againstnach oLhnr. and we're hopin~ our hard work pays off 1111 Sunday. We under­stand l.vons will bH rnadv for the ups.ct. and wn'rn i<HJking forward to tlw challengp.'' 
Although Lyons cl'rtainly has their work rut out for them. Captain Lisa Thomas beli(wes th<' first ganw was a great lrarning f'xperiPncr especially !'or the fn•shnwn. 
"Although we had a disap­pointing turnout in our first gamP. we expect to play belter this Sundav." Thomas said. 
Althougl; thP odds am stacked against Lyons knocking off last year's champion and this year's preeminent favorite Welsh. th(\ game on Sunday c9ttld provP to bf' the biggPst upset of the sea­son. 
Lewis vs. Pasquerilla East 
For tlw Pyro offense. it could be another tough Sunday at the office. After facing the stifling pass rush of Welsh Vamily last week. Pasquerilla East faces a confident Lewis Chick defense coming off a shutout. The teams square off at noon Sunday on thn McGlinn fields in what might br a bruising defensive brawl !'or thfl books. 
On the crushing Lewis defense in led by linebacker Becky Ward. Coarh Blake Kirkman says Lhe Chicks are "counting on her to be everywhere." Kirkman added that Ward is a superstar on a squad full of tal­
Pnt. 

"The defr.nsive line is solid. We lrnvr1 good players in the secondary too." Kirkman said. 
Kirkman is plnasr"d with tht~ way his young players have per­l'ornrnd so far. 
'Tm excited about how they're picking up the offense." 
Lewis wide receiver Kalie Schlosser isn't surprised that dr.1'1mse is her team's strength. 
.. IOur defensemr.n] am vr1ry athlotic. We had a good dnfenso last vmtr too," she commented.
On of'fpnsc. Schlosser dr-scribod thP. team as "inexpe­rienced at the skill positions." 
Schlosser r.xplaincd that the Chicks are tinkering with their offensive stralPgy for tlwir game against the Pyros. 
"We pass£1d too much last gamr," she notr.d. "We've brought in some new plays so we won't be so predir.tablc." 
The tough PE defense is seek­ing to improve against Lewis. after giving up several big plays against Welsh. Defonsivr linr­man Brita McCullough said that practice this week was spent "polishing up the def'ense and communicating better about what the offense is doing." McCullough explained that the team has responded well despite their loss. 
"It's a. place to start. We can build on it." she said. 
On offense, the Pyros face the challenge of another strong defensive lint' and linr.backer corps. But center Kristin King insisted PE will be ready for the challenge. 
"We're studying their defense and making changes. We'\! mix it up." 
Pangborn vs. Howard 
Pangborn and Howard com-

bined !'or a total of' zero points scored in their first games. Although Howard bounced back to score 16 points Thursday. both teams are looking to improve their offenses this weekend. They meet Sunday on the McGlinn !folds f'or bragging rights over the grassy paradise known as South Quad. 
With a base of freshman. Pangborn's offense is inexperi­enced and will need to rely on a veteran defense. 
Defensive captain Erin Piroutek said that the Phoxes 
1rned "to stick to the fundamen­tals." She continued on to explain that her team will play "twice as tough" against the Ducks. 
The Pangborn defense is cen­tered around its dvnamic line­backer duo, Annie Sutera and Libby Cunningham. Piroutek said they will insert morn blitzes into the defensive scheme on Sunday. The defense will also rely on the services of superfan "Crazy" Becky Weisenberger. 
Captain Jeanne Trelense said Howard will be potent on 
offense against Pangborn. She commented that strong-armed quarterback .Jill Vcselik gives., the Ducks "big play capability." Trelense explained that the team will continue to "work on the offensive line and try new things on offense." 
Emily Borg anchors the Duck Defense. Iler strong cornerback play has proved invaluable for lloward. 
"[The squad maintains] tight coverage. but. we need to work on the defensive linr,," Trclense said. 

The Observer acceprs classifieds every busi11ess day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 
-
024 South Di11ing Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per de1y. ind11ding all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassificds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
:,::,::,::,::,::,::,::,::,::,::,::,::,::,::,::,::,::,::,:::,::,~~-~B;U~Y~l~S;E~LL~N~D-------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:~B~a~by:s~1t~te~r.~L~·o~o~ki;ng~fo~r~an~en~e~r-:---~W~A~N~T~T~O~BR~l~N~G~Y~O;U~R~H~O;R~S~E­TICKETS getic babysitter for the evening of TO SCHOOL? SAGEBRUSH STA­LOST & FOUND 273-3911 FOR RENT WANTED Fri. Oct. 6, and afternoon of Sat. BLES IS THE PLACE. JUST 25 Oct. 7, lo watch 2-yr.-old and 4-yr.• MINUTES FROM NOTRE DAME. LOST ND·PU WEEKEND -OUR ND FOOTBALL B&B lodging in alumni home for ND WINTER BREAK/SPRING BREAK old. Will pay $12/hr. Call 937-294-INDOOR RIDING ARENA PURDUE FLAG WAS LOST IN TIX WANTED games. (219) 243-2628 or Ski & Beach trips on sale now! 4857. LIGHTED OUTDOOR ARENA THE PARKING LOT ON THE AM. -232-2378 garyb@mvillage.com www.sunchase.com or call SECURED TACK ROOM SOUTH SIDE OF EDISON ROAD. P.M. -288-2726 1-800-SUNCHASE EXPANDING INTERNET COMPA­FLEXIBLE RIDING HOURS THE 6 FT. X 10 FT. FLAG WAS ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE TODAY! NY SEEKS PEOPLE INTERESTED CLEAN SAFE ENVIRONMENT HAND SEWN BY MY WIFE NO ND FOOTBALL AND CLOSE TO JN EARNING PART-TIME OR FAMILY OWNED SAGEBRUSH QUESTIONS ASKED. PLEASE TIX FOR SALE CAMPUShtlp:/lmmmrentals.home· Looking lor 10 enterprising students FULL-TIME INCOME. EASY STABLES BOARDING LESSONS 
DROP OFF AT THE OBSERVER A.M. -232-2378 page.com/email:mmmrentals@aol. for part time computer work. MONEY. NO EXPERIENCE NEC­HORSEBACK RIDING OFFICE BASEMENT OF SOUTH PM -288-2726 com232-2595 Earn up to $4,000/mo. ESSARY. CONTACT DREW AT 55251 SAGE Rd. DINING HALL 1-888-304-0414 Lv. Msg. 273-1998 OR BILL AT 251-1362. 219-232-3361 
THANK YOU VERY MUCH BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL TIX. Thal Pretty Place, Bed and Christian family in need of upbeat WILL BUY USED CARS CALL 272-SPRING BREAK 2001 -Jamaica, HOME &AWAY. Breakfast Inn has space available caregiver for 18-mo.-old boy in our 4776. Cancun, Barbados, More. Hiring
-
(219) 289-8048 for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms home near campus. Flex. Hours & Campus Reps -2 Free Trips! Free
TICKETS 
NO STUDENT wilh private baths. $80-$115, great pay. Call Sharyl at 237-0911. Meals-Book by 1113. Call 1·800­
CONVERSION Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. FOR SALE 426-7710 or sunsplashtours.com. WANTED TIX NEEDED Toll Road, Exit #107. 1-800-418-Need afterschool care for two boys ND FOOTBALL TKTS 9487. (9& 12) in our home. flexible days, 1992 CHEVY LUMINA, GREAT www.icecoldvideo.com 289-9280 MSU vs. ND mus! have car. Call Kim or Matt CONDITION. $3,500. 272-4776. check it out 
lootball lickels I have 5 bedrooms for rent in my Bloom 255-3472. 1-5104, ATTENTION: bought and nicely-decorated private home for mbloom@nd.edu Shakespeare called -you know Paying $50.00 per ticket for last 3 sold Football weekends; less than 2 what I said!!!! 
PERSONAL 
home games. (219) 289-8048 miles north of stadium. continental Help! "No student conversions wanted.• brkfst included. Many happy repeat Staffer needs to rent condo/guest NICE HOME AVAILABLE NOW Happy Birthday Erin! 
(219) 289-8048. Dad needs 2 tix customers! Call Kim 277-8340. house/room in Pasedena. CA. NORTH OF ND [ROSELAND] 277-Now that you are 21. You are our 
to Stanford game! General area lor New Year's holi­3097 new besl fnend. SELLING Ckrosey@mindspring.com 2 BR, 2nd fir. Apt 525/mo. day period Love, ND FOOTBALL TKTS Along St. Joe River (12-27 to 1-2) My son is marching KTG -Check him outl UH HUH!!! The Clique 251-1570 2 ND/USC Incl. Water/Sec. Sysurrash in the Rose Bowl Parade! Would 
Tix + Aifrare 288-2654 or 288-2788 consider hosting your family tor the Hello to all my friends Ihaven't Hey Brooke. 
VICTORY TKTS GOTO usc2001 game. tickets included, seen in DAYS. t miss you all. I think I forgot your phone number BUY-SELL •TRADE alumni.nd.edu/-ndc_stax 3.4 & 5-bedroom alumni-owned ND 1ans only! again. Connolly ND FOOTBALL homes tor rent. Please call Jason Please email !datnd@aolcom or To my roommates: I've apparently 232-0964 FOR SALE.FOOTBALL TICKETS. @240-0322 for homes close to call 259-7544. moved out and into a NC-STATE 
www.viclorytickets.com ALL GAMES ... 272-7233 campus. ask for Tina. Thanks dining hall basement. NCSTATE 
Friday, September 22, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Dasso advances to round two 
HOMES FOR RENT 
2001-2002 SCHOOL YEAR 
-Domus Properties has 4,5,6,7,8 and 10 bedroom houses available ~Student neighborhoods close to campus -Security systems provided -YVell maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2001-2002 School Year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 8 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219) 274-1501 or (219) 234-2436 or (219) 674-2572 
:,.-. 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame tennis serves up victory 
eight points to start the season

Special to the Observer 
with a victory. Taborga and junior Casey

The Irish men's tennis team Smith also posted straight-setserved victorv as it hosted the singles wins, while freshmenTom Fallon Invitational to open Luis Haddock-Morales and Mattits season on Thursday. 
Scott had successful debuts.

l\1otre Dame won 12 of 13 
Haddock-Morales defeatedmatches against William & 

Patrick Brown 6-4, 6-3, whileMary at the Courtney Tennis 

Scott beat Geoffrey Russell 6-3,

Center. Irish junior Aaron 
6-4.

Talarico defeated William & 
Other singles winners for the

Mary's 90th-ranked Trevor 
Irish were junior Andrew LaflinSpracklin 7-5, 6-2 in singles and and sophomores Brian Farrell,later teamed with junior Javier 

Bryan Acken and Chancey

Taborga for a win in doubles. 
Martin.

The ninth-ranked Taborga 
Haddock-Morales and Smith

and Talarico team edged 
won 8-5 in doubles over BrianSpracklin and Geoffrey Russell 

Lubin and Jodv Strik. Senior

9-8 in a seesaw match. 
Ashok Raju and Scott teamed up

Thr. Irish juniors led 7-4 
for an 8-7 win in doubles, whiIAbefore the Tribe rallied to tie 

William & Mary's Charles

the set at 7 -7 and then led 6-4 
Briggs and Ryan Ariko beat

in the tiebreaker. Taborga and 
junior James Malhame andTalarico came back in the sophomore Jake Cram 8-3 in

tif'breaker tri win six of the last 
doubles. 

Iii••
Notre Dame Center •••forEthics andReligious 111•:BI ValuesinBusiness 
Proudly Presents 
Archbishop John P. Foley 
President ofthe Pontifical Council for Social Conununications 
Ethics in.Advertising: The Perspective of the Church 
Special to the Ob•erver 
Notre Dame sC'nior women's Lennis All-American Michelle Dasso advanced to the second round of singles and doubles at the T. Howe Price National Intc"rcollegiate Clay Court Championships. 
Tim Championships wuo ·opening log of the lnlt'rr:ol!eg-iate Tennis Association grand slam at the Suburban Club of Baltimore County in Pikesvillc, Md. 
The fifth-seeded and 18th­
ranked Dasso rallied Lo defeaL Pepperdine qualifier Charlotte Vernaz 1-6, 7-5, 6-0 in her first match of thr. season T h P eightb­ran ked Irish dou­bles team of Dasso and junior 

Becky Varnum advanced to Friday's second round with a 6-2, 6-2 win over Pacific's Christiane Barthel and Diane D'Audney, Dasso and Varnum next will meet VCU's 17th­ranked Martina Nodelkova and Andrea Ondrisova. lhrne-set winners ovrr North Carolina's 30th-ranked Marlene Mejia and Erin Neibling. 
Dasso will play Wake Forest's 31st-ranked Janet Bergman in the second round on Priday. 


Tuesday, September 26, 2000 Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 7:00 p.m. 
*Sponsored by the Centerfor Ethics & Cargill 
Sophomores & Juniors!. 
$CHOLAR$HIP$ AVAILABLE NOW! 
AF ROTC -Producing Leaders for the Air Force and Building better citizens for America 
-


Non-competitive Scholarships .. $17,480 annually, are available for select majors for sophomores and for ALL juniors! 
Don't waste a moment! Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 

Invites you to join their representatives this Thursday and Friday at the Notre Dame College of Business Career Fair to discuss opportunities at Ford Motor Company. We will be looking for positions in Finance, Accounting, Purchasing, Material and Logistics Planning, Marketing and Sales, and Process Leadership (IT). If you cannot attend, then please visit our website at 
WWW.MYCAREER.FORD.COM 
WE'LL SEE YOU THEREH 
Friday, September 22, 2000

page JG The Oburver . SPORTS 

. 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
of Urn Irish goals in Tu1•sday's l-1 lrnnw win against Clrv<'land SlaL<i. 
Sunday's ganw againsL 

C:011111\clicuL pits Lht\ Irish a.l{ainst tlw hig-hPst-rankPd tl'am on thPir rP;;LJlar s1>ason sclwdul<'. Tlw lluskies ti<'d llutgPrs for first in lhP. 13ig J<asL lasl year bdon' advancing to the final four in tht\ NCM tour­na m<'nt. 
This sl'ason's lluskil' t1iam is rurn'ntly 4-l. winning four straight af"tnr losing to No. 11 Wake FonisL in Lim season­orwn ing gaml'. Conn ectin1 t takes 011 Big East rival Pittsburgh 01, Friday brfore beading to South Bene!. 
Connnctirut is IPad by the l!'ading scorN in thP Hig 1:ust 
Interested in writing ct J::tll 
fo~:_.. .. 
Call Noah 4-1786 

-
-

in C1isaw Ctwllar, who has pul While Llw Irish have dominat­tlw ball in tlw nc>t f'ivP times ed on defense throughout tlrn this season already. Darin season, dnf'ensin brnakdowns Lnwis has scor£id four tim<'s and p1,nalties havn Ind to oppo­whilP taking onlv nin<' shots so 1wnts' g11als. Against C!Pvr,land far this seas.on. In goal. Stal<'. Irish defender Andres Brvlwcm I lancock has allowPd Forsln<'r was cal!11d for trip­oniy f'our goals this snason r.n ping, a pPn<1lty which lC'd to thP l'Olll!\ lo Vikings· only sC".oro. r cc•. or d -off nl' the l'rnP kirk. 
ing lhrt'P "It's going to be one <d" Pridmorn strc,ssl:S 
sh ulouts. lhat tlwrn will no
those games where we
T b <' room for stwh mis­I r i s h have to play our best for tahis against tho 
k n o w lluskiPs.
90 minutes." 
t h n t "It's going to be th1~rp is one ol' thos(' gamns
Dustin Pridmore
l i t l I e whtc,rc wr" havP to margin senior tri-captain play our bnst f'or f'or Prror 90 minut<'s." said against Pridmore. "We're 1hr talPntcd lluskins. not going to be ablti to have 
"They'r<' a rcally tal0nt0d, slip-ups, b(~r,ausn if w0 have nxperi,1 11ced team," said slip-ups ConnecticuL is tlrn typH Pridmore. "As long as we make of that will r,apitalizc on that sure our defon:-;n is strong, we sfip-up and make our inam can create sornn shots." pay." 

~ 

itallan/sicilian 4~ Trattoria
. 

Dining (' 
.
I .. 5S. Michigan St. Pizza, Beverages 219-233-1000 


ERNESTO LACAYOrrha Observer Freshman midfielder Justin Detter moves the ball upfield dur­ing Tuesday's 2-1 win over Cleveland State. 
Domer
'ooo
£ 
AwARENE:ss BREAST CANCER 
PROGRAM 

3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK AND ~ PANCAKE BREAKFAST _ ~~ {J 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30~ = 11:00-STEPAN CENTER 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $6.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE DEADLINE FOR ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS 9/29/00 AT 5:00PM STUDENT AND STAFF DIVIStONS 
T-SHIRTS DONATED BY THE ND ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 


-··,• 
, 

A BeNC,OT ,.R N.TRC .AMC'5 
. F" 



Friday, September 22, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Wolllen 
continued from page 24 
on tl11\ road in what promisf's to be a hostile environuwnt. 
"That's a big concern. good Pnough to ('aUSP a problem," Waldrum saiJ. "We'll have to kPcp our focus." 
Thr l\lountainncrs' schnduk is not nearlv as formidable as lhal of Notrn ·name. but thny have nonetheless racked up an imprnssivr 7-1 mark to date. 
v\'est \'irginia's success lios primarily in its ability to play disciplinPd def'Pnsive soc('er. The Mounlidncers stay very orga­nized in their own half of the field. making it difficult for oppo­nents to find quality. chances around thf' goal 
"They play a frustrating style," Waldrum said. "Tlrny can be v<'ry diflicult to break down.. " 
Arter being tested on tho road, Waldrum is hopeful his Learn can ace another exam. this time at honrn, as Lhc Pittsburgh Panthers como to town !'or a Sunday afternoon baltle. 
The Panthers have struggled of' late. and stand just 3-S on tho snason. In a game thn Irish nxpect to win handily. Waldram hopes to rnst some of his stars while providing the younger players a rhanco to play. 
Players such as senior co-cap­tain Annr. Makinrm, who has played an instrumental role in what has been a symphonic sea­son. Ls due for a rest. as is goal­ke(~per Liz Wagmir. 
"[Resting key players] is some­thing we hope Lo do," Waldn1111 said. "We'rr a little banged up. so that would be nice." 
What Waldrum doesn't want is for his players to look past the lowly Panthers. Despite its less than impressive rncord. Pittsburgh poses a thrnat to Notre Dame. Afu~r being dor­mant all season. the Panthers P.ruptcd !'or seven goals in a shutout virtory over the Sun Devils ofASU. 

!\7t:c:i'a 
289-5080

~a_!>~ 
Announces the Following Introductory Offers Of... 
t) rro:zom r s2r, r $59, r 'i6r, r $69,
I Aveda I I Cul & I If<>IO!. cu,&. ,1y1<-I I Pem1, Cut I I Hi lites & I 
L !;t!!! ..J L ~Y!; ..J ei::::e!!J L~;J~e.J 1£.u!!_!tr;!;J 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we i..vill do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
NOT VAL!D FOH SPITTAL PEHMS, LONG OH TINTED HAIH ADD $IO, No OTHEH DISCOUNTS APPLY.. OPFN SOME E:VENINGS. !\THIA SALON RESERVES THE HIGHT TO REFUSE SERVICE TO ANY CLIENT WIIOSE IIAIH COl\'DITIOI\ lS UNSUITABLE. 
Valid with the Following Stylists Only: Sarah, Vicki, & Connie 
-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-Must Be Presented To Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
(Certain Restrictions Apply) 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. Offer Expires rn/ro/2000 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles host first ever Jamboree 
By KATIE McVOY Assisunr Sports Editor 
The Belles cross country team is running into new terri­tory this weekend at the MIAA Jamboree. 
For the first time in its four­year history, the Saint Mary's cross country will be hosting a home meet. 
Ilead coach Dave Barstis says he hopes "that the meet go off without any problems. I've newer hosted a meet before so it's beP.n a 11:iatning experi­ence." 
The Belles will run against all he teams in the MIAA on Saturday on Saint Mary's cam­pus. The team is hoping that the home course. which winds through the Saint Mary's nature trails and will end near the softball field, will bring some advantages with it. 
"I think that !having home course advantage! will help having a lot of fans cheering for us. it will pump us up and get us ready!" junior Melissa Goss said. "We are so excited to be running on our home course, this is what I have been waiting for since I have been here!" 
Barstis thinks having the community cheering them on will help too. 
"I hope having a lot of people tuni out lo cheer for us will give us a little extra push," he said. "A little extra adrenaline would help us." 
"I feel the team should be able to do well this week," freshman Jessica Millanes added. "We have done some different workouts this week, and we are running better as the season progresses." 
The MIM competition will be tough, however. 
The Calvin College women's cross country team is ranked second nationally in Division Ill competition and they will be out to keep that ranking. 
"I expert Calvin and llope to be dominate." Barstis said. "The success of their programs means a lol -of runners want to compete for them." 
Although the Belles _don't expect to finish in the top four teams, they think the competi­tion between the next four teams will be challenging. 
"The next four positions are a toss up." Barstis said. "Adrian, Albion, Olivet and Saint Marv's could finish in any order." · 
Saint Mary's is ready for the ,,. competition. 
"We are going to have com­petition, but I think we are ready for it," Goss said. 
The meet kicks off at 11 a.m. Saturday. 


Castl~'Poiot 
Apartme."ts · 
.-Cleveland and lron~ood Roads/18011 Cleveland Road/ South Bend, Indiana 46637/ (219)27i-BIIO 
New· Castle Point .S.ele.ct Unite 
. . . 
, Available for .Next Sein.ester *W~t~ riri.nut~s-of campus* 
• Renovated; sp-acious -one ap.d two 
·. --. ­
bedro_om·apartments~ soffie with lofts·· 
-... -. .. .. 
• Includes.;memb.ership_ it). the new 
. . . _.. .. 
Castle Point Racquet Club 
. . , -. ' 
and Fitness·center. 
-
-
Priday, September 22, 2000

Irish runners host Catholic Invitational 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 

SMC Observer Office Open Monday ­Thursday 5:00 p.m. -7:00 p.m.  
WEB PAGE DESIGN Using Netscape Composer Do you want to learn how to create a Web page without learning HTML? This hands-on, two-hour course will help you to: • Design a Web page using Netscape Composer • Publish your page on the ND network • Learn basic Web authoring concepts Classes are free, but you need to register in advance. Class materials are also included. Class dates and times: Sunday. October 1, 2-4 pm Architecture cluster, Bond Hall (Windows) Tuesday, October 3, 7-9 pm G015 cluster, Computer Center Math Building (Windows) Thursday, October 5, 7-9 pm Davisson cluster, O'Shaughnessy Hall (Macintosh) To register, see the Student Training Program Web site: •••.¦www.nd.edu/-stp D¦ Office of Information Technologiesor call 631-7227  

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN A«oci,irr Sporr, Ediror 
TllP Irish r.ross countrv squads drf'cnd their home tur:f today as they host tlw, National Catholir Invitational in the first of.just lwo home nrncts. 
~otf•p Dame will b!i Lim tnam 
to beat. SlWing its ncilfrnr tlH\ men or women ·s squad has lost since I 994. Despite its string of live consecutive titles. a first-place finish is by no means a sure thing for Notre l>anrn. parfir.ular!y on tho women·s side. 
"Loyola (Chicago), they're really good." women's cross country coach Tim Connelly said. "They've got a prntty vet­eran tP,llll. Most of' their top kids ar<' juniors and seniors. v\'e'rc going to have to run reall~. · really well to beat them. 
An added challenge in aim­ing for No. 1 will be the absence of sophomore star .l1-rnnif'1:ff Handley, who likely will not run due lo a foot prob­lem. 
"She's got a sore foot," Con,rnlly said. "She's really improved a lot, but I don't want to set her back at all." 
With Handlev on the side­lines. the varsity lineup will likely consist of freshmen Megan Johnson and Hachel Endrnss, sophomores Muffy Schmidt and Jennil'er Fibuch, juniors llilary Burn and Anne McGrath and senior Chrissy Kurmstcr. 
"We definitely want to win," Fiburh said. "( dcfinite.!y think that we have the ability to do it. We just have to focus, and I think wf' have to want to run 

fast to win and just know . we've been training hard 
enough to win. I don't think it's just going to come." 
Lovola is thP. main ,:ompeti­tion ·for the title, but about 30 teams will fill out the field. Davton. Detroit, St. John's and LP~vis all feature several strong ath!etns. 
On the m<'n's side. I\Jotre Dame looks JikPly to run away with tho victory. 
"We've dominated this mAet the past few years," junior Luke Watson said. "I think we look strong enough that we shouldn't have any real prob­kims at this level of meet." 
Watson placed second in the meet a year ago. Marc Striowski, Sean Zanderson. Pat Conway, John Keane, David Alber and Kevin Brown will likely join him in •the varsity race. 
"We're still looking for some guys to step up," Watson said. "Our team is composed of a lot of guys who are fresh men or who haven't rar.ed cross coun• try in their career. What's going on tomorrow is we're just looking to get them some expr.rience." 
After Notre Dame, Loyola and Lewis should be the top contenders. 
Since the National Catholic Invitational began 20 years ago, the Notre Dame men have captured 12 team champi­onships. Since women's com­petition began 16 years ago, 
the Irish have taken  home  
seven titles.  
The junior varsity  races  

begin at 3:30 p.m. today on Burke Memorial Golf Course, followed by the varsity compe­tition. 
HOLY CROSS at Notre Dame 
If you've never thought about being a priest, ignore this ad, but if you have ... 

-
why not find out more?? 
Informal pizza night/prayer/discussion Tuesday, Sept. 26th, 9:00-10: 15p.m. @ Corby Hall 
CONTACT: Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. ~ANSWER ~ THECALL ~
1-308 7-vocation. l@nd.edu 
'You know my great desire to be close to the young. I declared so at the beginning of my pontificate and repeat it now: you are the future of the world, the hope of the Church." Pope John Paul II 
-
Friday, September 22. 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
-

MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Rabid Bats seek redemption in rematch against Wave 
ing or their neighbor dorm. 
By JOHNNY LEITNER, 
Zant attributes the team's suc­
KATIE DEMENT, AND 
cess to physical play in the 
COLIN BOYLAN 
trenrhes and a strong perfor­
mance on speria! teams. 
"We pnnetrated well and 
l)pfpnsiv<' tradition takp,s shut down thr. run, and we rPntPr stag<' this Sunday didn't give !the St. Ed's quar­af'tPrnooll. whpn lhc FishPr terbac'.kj time to throw." he 
!!all Wave 1·0l!idl'S ,vith tho said. 
Habid Bats ol' 7.ahm. Both f)pspitP last wc>ok's high-fly­t1•ams. l'n~sh off stnllar pnrf'or­ing scoring showr,a:;c, Zahm manc.ns bv their dcf'Pnscs. plans on rnlying heavily on tho 
intPnd on ~111lcashing a foro-strength of thPir dPfonse this 1'.ious attark against thP oppo­week. sition. 
"Fisher is 0111\ of the best !11 tlw µast thrP(\ seasons, teams in the league." said the matl'hPs betWP<'n these Zant. 
two powc~rhousPs have all Fislwr Hall also rPcognizes bcwn dPrid<\d by S<WPn points thfi signil'icanr,e of d1ifensivc or JPss. Last sea-play in this son. Fish0.r tri­rivalry. 
Ac:cording
umph c• cl oVP r "Fisher is always well /.ahm 7 -0 on Urn to Fisher
prepared and plays

strPngth of a spe­captain 
cial teams touch­good defense. We expect I) <' a n Korolis,
down. a defensive battle." Brian Zant. a 
the Wave senior 1:apU1in f'or intr,nds to 
Brian Zant counter
Zahm llall. antiri­patPs tlw rivalry Zahm Captain Zahm's to be rcsum11d in 
threats similar fashion 
with solid this y<,ar. defense. "Fish11r is always well pre­"The game plan is to hit 
parPd and plays good hard. thPn hit harder. then hit cld<'nsP. ·• Za11t said. "We c'ven hard,~r," Koro!is said. nxpcrt a del'nnsivn battln." Korolis pleasnd with
was 

Zahm's defonsP held St. Ed's their defense's performancP scorP!css last WflPk and against Knott last week. a 
rPturrwd an int<>rccption !"or a game in which they surrnn­touchdown in a 42-0 thrash-dercd only a field goal to the 


defending champions. 
"We played good defense but we have to work on our offen­sive fundamentals," said the junior captain and linebacker. 
Fisher players know that Zahm is coming off of a resounding victory, a gamP in whirh they exceeded their point total for the entire 1999 SPason. 
They expect a close game against thfl Rabid Bats, though, and are confident in their prospects. 
While both units omphasize commanding defensive play, they also hope to improve upon their offensive execution from last week. Fislrnr, shut out bv Knott. looks to usP their ·power ganrn against Zahm. while the Zahm Bats are aiming for improvnd effi­c inn cy from their dynamic running and passing combina­tion. 
Carroll vs. Knott 
New on the intcrhall scPne, Carroll !!all plays last year's champion Knott in a face off that is sure to challcrnge both teams 011 Stepan field this Sunday at 2 p.m .. 
"We arc not exactlv surt: ,vhat to expPd, Wf' ai·p just going to go out tfwrP and ser what happens." Carroll team captain Geoff Polk said. 

down, according to Polk. Freshman quarterback Mike Demuniz has the potential to prove his skills this game after throwing an interception against Siegfried. 
Being back on the circuit gives the Vermin a chance to prove their fresh enthusiasm and driven intensity to move the ball. 
"[I hope] that the team will play all game long like they played in the first half against Siegfried," Polk said. 
The Vermin arc planning to use last weeks game as a model, Polk said. 
Knott hopes to use a strong defense to defend their title. Knott player Brian Pawloski said. 
"Knott's defense is the blood life of the team," Pawloski said. 
Middle linebackers Ed Foy and Dan Zach lead the Juggs defense. 
Knott started the season out right, defeating Fisher. 5-0. "Lou Perry and the rest of the offensive line up did a 
great  job  protecting  the  
holes." Pawloski said.  
Aiming  to  improve  the  

offense, a few good practices are scheduled to get Knott Pven more organized. accord­ing Lo the Juggs. 
St. Edwards vs. Sorin A genera! theme lingers above this wer,kend's St. 
Edward's against Sorin Hall football showdown: the theme of redemption. 
For St. Ed ·s, redemption means proving that they can put forth a better effort than the one they gave last week­end in a defeat to Zahm. 
For Sorin, redemption has a very different meaning. Coming on the heels of a sea­son filled with r,hampionship expectations, Sorin must reedeem itself' for a heart­breaking 24-6 loss to Knott in last year's title game. 
Following an opening day bye, Sorin opens the year rest­ed and ready to compete. Its veteran offense is led by quar­terback Pete Belden, who is returning to the team follow­ing a one-year absenr,p. Heiden will throw to wide receivers Greg Carney and Mike Crowe. and handing off to running back Dave Knesek. Protecting him will be a veter­an offensive line, anchored by Luke Burke. 
The offensive scheme this year should be relatively straightforward. according to Crowe. 
"\'Ve're going to stick with our bread and butter, whir.h has been downficld passing and running up the middle," he said. 
Defensivelv. the Otters are helped by the versatility of Antione Tobias, who doubles as a receiver and a solid cover cornerback. 
And though Sorin would like to explode out of the gate. the Otters arc certainlv not under­es ti mating their ·nrst oppo­
nent. 
"We're not looking past St. Eds," said Crowe. "Anything can happen in interhall foot­ball and we know that." 
For the Stedsmcn. remain­ing confident in their own abilities will be the most important aspe-ct of the game. More than anything else, the team 'vvould like to gain rnspect by playing tough against a perennial contender. 
"We have nothing to losfl out there. so hopefully we can get some. things going and score some points this week." said St. Ed's offensive lineman Pete Blouin. 


p:ige 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 22, 2000 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Keenan takes on Dillon in early season showdown 
By MATTHEW CASSADY, 
JAMES VERALDI and TODD 
NIETO 
\ ports Wri rers 
In what can only b1\ describ1\d as a battln of the titans, Kernan squari>s oil' againsL Dillon Sunday al'tnrnoon at 3 p.m. at Stepan l·it>lds. 
Ea.ch tPam startrd il'i rnspnctivr smLson oil on llw right foot last Sunday with· Dillon blanking
--
Stanford I.t-0 and Kt~cnan earning a 14-(> virtory owr Morriss,~y. /\!though rarh t1-arn kn<1ws it is in for a lllugh 1iarly season chal­1!• ngr. nnithnr has any plans to change iL-; gamP plan. "Thi' b1\st thing for us to do is to . play up to our potnntial and not worry about what they art' going to do." l)il!on sophomon• lineman l'atrick l·:spnr .said "It is better to focus on our w,iaknesses and try­ing to improve tlwm than to go out a.ml. scout what those guys are doing." · ()uartcrback Billy Ellsworth of Kc11nan a1-,trnes. "I think W<' arn pretty murh going to go with what worknd last wr.nk," lw sa.id. What worked last wnck was Prmugh to get the job donr. over Morrissr\y. but will 14 points be Pm>L1gh to beat thP Big B!•d? "I lhink 14 points should be l'nough to win," Ellsworth said. "It is going to bP two great dp,fonses going al it out tlwr1•." Thi' "gn•at dPli•nsp" of Dillon is l!'d bv senior d1\fPnsivc end Jo1\ l'ark1~r who is cu1-rr.ntlv lied for th<' team lead in sacks ~vith two. Although his ddense pitclrnd a shutout last \'\'Pckend over Stanford. Parker .still foels Lhcrp, is room !'or improvemPnt. "I think tlwrc Ls always room for improvement," he .'iaid. "We'd like to get a little morn push along the defensive line and rnally improve our tackling. [Standford's! runners were bouncing off ol' a lot of our tackles on Sunday. We need to be the ones laying the licks out them." 
If' the' Dillon defonse is going to be laying the !irks on proplP-it will have to stop a potent Keenan offense which indudcs running back Craig Murray. who scored on an eight yard tourhdown run last weekend to seal the game for the 
Knight-;. 

Th<' one thing that nePds to be improved for Keenan according Lo Knight.., captain I l1wb Ciorg"io, is it.<; ('.< msistcncy. 
"Ewrything we ran in tlrn first half' [against Morrissey! seeme<l to work. Im said." "We just need Lo get together and play four quar­tnrs." 
II' llm Keenan offense manages to put togethPr four quarters of f'ootball as Giorgio hopes, i.L -..viii put the weight back onto the Dillon ufl'Pnse to score some point-;. 
"Ifwe ran keep our intl'nsity up. stay focused and r.xecutc a little bit better, our offense should be much better this week:" 'Said Dillon snnior fullback Jason Visner. 
This Sunday Visner will find out whether his team will be able Lo rn11et those requirements when Dillon moeli; the Keenan Knights in a battle of the undefeatnd. 
Alumni vs. Stanford 
Two teams that were heading in opposite directions after last week's competitions will square offSunday at 2 p.m. 
While Alumni is coming off an imprnssive 13-0 shutout over O'Neill. Stanford will try and bounce bark from a disappointing 14-0 loss to Oillon. 
Sunday's competition promises to be a battle of the defense. The Dawgs played tough defonse last week. led by linebackp,r Baily Siegfried and freshman corner­back T.J. Strachota, who came through with two key intP-rcP.p­Lions in last week's victorv. 
After plugging the holes and stuffing the run. defensive tarkle Nick Linstroth also looks to put together another solid outing for the Alumni defense. 
"We am looking for our defense 
to step up again, and give the 
offi>.nse a chance to makf' the big 
plays," Alumni captain Mitch 
Karam said. 

Stanford rount<'fs with a strong. 
experienced defense of its own. 
Led by corncrback Corey 
Hartmann and defensive lirn~man 
Josh Kaakua. the Stanford dd'ensc 
did an excellent job in shutting 
down the Dillon olfonse last week. 
Thr, Alumni offensn will counter 
the Stanford defense with an -option attar.k fod by a f'reshman 
backfield composed of quartp,r­
back Chris Cottingham and tail­
back i\tcx Roodhouse. Fullback 
Brandon Nunnink will bring Pxp1'­
rience to the barklkld. 

Hoodhousp, and Cottingham 
played extremely well last week in 
their first start'i behind a powerful 
oll'en.sive line_. 

"We expect our ofiense to show 
a lot of improvement over lasi. 
week," defensive lineman Nick 
Linstroth said. "We expect them to 
move the ball better and do a good 
job of putting the ball in the end 
zone." 

"If the offensive line performs 

likp, they did last week. then WP. will have no problem running the ball all over Stanford", adds frnsh­man running back Alex HoodhousP. 
Stanford is suffering from a wflak offense, whirh was held sr,oreless la.st week by a punishing Dillon defense. The closest tlrn Griffins came to scoring last week was the five-yard line, but they could not punch it in. 
Along with another solid outing on the defonsivc sid11 of the ball, Stanford will need to put up some morr, offensive numbp,rs in ordr.r to come out on top. 
As for the Dawgs, they need their defense to shut down the opponent onre again and not gp,t caught looking ahead to tlrnir showdown with Keenan. 
Keough vs. Morrissey 
The Kangaroos of Keough bounce into action on Sunday, looking to win their season opener against the Morrissey Manorites. 
Following a 14-6 loss to the Keenan Knights. Manor is hoping to regroup for Sunday's game. 
Co-captains Hyan York<'ry and 
Kevin McAbc11 lead thn Kangaroos 
with their out':itanding play. 
"K1win McAbcn is a monstnr at 
running back and l'ullback," said 
Keough frnshman Tms Studnr. 
Other players to look for include receiver Paul Didio and freshman . safoty Brian Adams. 
/\!though tlrn Kangaroos havp, 
not done any special drills in prar­
tice to prepare for the game. the 
team has done many hitting drills. 
"We am tired of' hitting each 
other." said Studer. "Wn want to 
pounce on Morrissey." 
Key players !'or thp, Manor 
inrlude quarterback Mark Berndt 
and tailback Edward I fp,rnandr.z. 
In their last game. Manor failed 
to score any points in the first half. 
It is essential for the Manoritp,s to 
scorn early in the gamP-to beat 
Keough. 
The teams will battle for pride 
and bragging righLi; on Sunday at 
StP-pan Field at 1 pm. 
"After Sunday's game, only one 
of us is going home happy and I 
think we know who that is,"Studer 
said. 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Purple Weasels take on Shamrocks in enemy territory 
Jodie Greaney. competitive game against the throwing off everyone else's combinp,d games, the two teams
By JOHN BACSIK, lAUREN Greaney ran the option well PW Purple Weasels this past defense," said .Jefferson. "/\nd have managed only 18 totalCONTI and CHRIS FEDERICO 
last Sunday against Farley, and Tuesday. our defense, well, there are six points.
Sports Writers 
she hopes to do the same this "We played really solidly on of us seniors who've played The Bullfrogs opened up the Sunday. According to Greaney Tuesday," Farley team captain together since freshman year. season with a scoreless tie to ThP-McC!inn Shamrocks hope and coach Geoff Hciplp,~ the Rebecca Glatz said. "We just We know everything each other Pasquerilla West in which nei­to makP-it a long walk home for Shamrocks have been working had a defensive lapse right at is going to do." ther team could accomplish any­
the Purple Weasels of 
on the basics in prar.tice and re­the beginning of the game, Farley is prepared for a com­thing offensively.Pasquerilla West on Sunday at tooling a few plays. which cost us some points. We petitive match-up. according to In their following game againstMcGlinn field. The Shamrocks Freshman Brianne McNicholas don't have any drastic changes Glatz. Walsh. Badin 's quarterback 
(0-l) would like to put a bigger 
and sophomore Dina Bcrnadelli to make for Sunday," "I haven't really seen Walsh Prisr.illa Clcmenl'i had a success­dmt in the PW n\cord (1-0-11. 
will be handling things on the Farley quarterback Jenny play this season. but it sounds ful touchdown pass; however, -Freshman quarterback Leslie d<'fensive line. McGlinn captain Geraci heads up the offonse that like they have a strong team and shn also threw four intercp,p."Schmidt will lead the PW 
.Jamie Glasser has failh in her looked strong last Sunday. wlrnn offensive effort and so do we. tions . 01'fons11. Tight end Cory Yelle and 
defense. the Finest beat the McGlinn We've both had some problems Meanwhile. B.P. also returns captain Amanda (;;tllen will he 
"Our defense is strong," said Shamrocks 12-0 in their season with interceptions, but I think it to action following a tough loss Schmidt's t.argcb down tlw field. (,lassor. "Our linebackers an• opmrnr. will be an nvenly matched good in which their offense managed
"This tPam is gelling better looking very good " "I think part the strength of game." littlP-. While quartnrback Katip,with Pv1iry ganrn." said Gallen. 
our offense is that .lPnny has McFarland had success movingThe Purple Wnasel ddcns0 
!'our or fivA solid rnccivers shn the ball. th1~y were unablp, to put
Walsh vs. Farley Breen-Phillips vs. Badin
wants to keep its strPak of score­can throw to with conli<lcn,:e," any points on the board.
With no losses this seasnn, the The B.P Banshees and the
l1•ss opponents in tact this 
said Glatz. "We're definitely playing the
Wild Women of' Walsh hope to Badin Bullfrogs will have the
Sunday. In order to do so, tlrny Walsh team captain Melissa role of tho underdog this year,"
keep their record spoltess on look of determination in their
will nc1\d to 1111 tlH\ gap lel't by Beiting expressed assurance in said B.P. captiiin J1\nny
Sunday wh0n they far,e off eyes when they strp onto thn
lhn loss of defensive lirrnman 
the Wild Women's of'fonsP. Wahoskn. "We lost a handful of
against Farley's Finest at 5 p.m. West Quad Field Sunday after­
Susic Carp1•n(Pr, who brokn her "I think the game Tuesday rnturning players Lo Off-campus,
on M<'Glinn 1-/ield. noon at 4 p.m. 
nose on the lasl play of Tuesday really proved to everyone that so it's a rP-building year."
''We've got the win against Both teams aro trying Lo
night"s game against Farl!'y. we have some offensive strength. The Banshee captain admits
Badin and one Lie. Wn'rr, going bounce back from tough losses
Middl<·-!irH\bar.kcr Kelly l>ries 

Offense really came through that their young team is some­
out there hoping to do our best in their last games.
and sophomorn safr.ty Jill 
with some huge plays. like what incxpnrienced, but sho sees
and come out with another win." In their past games, both
lloughton will bri dirncting the Karina IMayorga'sl tlm>e inter­improvement with each practice.
said Walsh lin1'bar.ker Tiara teams have shown that their
d1,fensP for thn Wea:,wls. but ceptions." "I know WP will do bettor," she
Jefferson. defenses can hold up. However,
thry'll havP their hands f'ull 
"We have come up with some said. "We've just got to beat the
Farley will enter the game both have suffered from offen­
against Shamrocks' quart1H·back 
great plays that am really odds."
hoping to avenge a 7 -6 loss in a sive struggles. In their three 
-

SYDNEY 2000 
i-;riday, September 22, 2000 . page 21 



SWIMMING 
de Bruijn sets Olympic record in 50-01eter freestyle 
Associaled Press 
SYDNEY 

lngP dP Bruijn. pursuing h('r third swimming gold nrndal. spt an Olympic record in the 50­rrwlf\r rn•Pstyk at 24.46 sr\c·onds. beating out !\1111:ric,rns Darn Torres and Amy Van Dyken. 
IJP Bruijn. winner of' the JOO butterfly and 100 f'rPPstylc, bPat tlw 8-year-old Olympir mark ol' 24.79, sPL by China's Yang We.nyi. 
To1-i-Ps. thP :n-ycar-old from Bcwuly Hills. Cali!'. ignorc~d a sorP shoulder to Louch second in 24.96. Van Dyknn. the 1996 Olympic cham­pion in the PV('nt. was third at 25.04. 
The top 1(j advanc:P.d to thP. evening semifi­nals. with the final Saturday. 
'Tm urtually doing prrtty good," said Torrns, rompt>Ling in lwr third individual evnnl after winning bronzp in both tlrn 100 bnttPrlly and 100 l'n\c'stvlc "I wanted to break 2S seconds. I know I'm going to gnt faster." 
Yan Dykrn. 27. of EnglPwood, Colo .. won !'our gold medals in llw 199(, Atlanta Ganrns. inrluding thP :iO f'rPt\stylr> in n major upsnt ov,·r th,· Llw11-powcrl'ul Chinese lc~am. 
SinrP tlwn. Van Dyken has undergonr. two shou!dPr operations. Slw wasn't Pven sure if slw would attend the Olympi(' trials. but rncov­prc•d quickly Pnough to make tlw team. 
Now. shn's in position for anotlwr nwdal. 
"It's probably going to tah a world record to win iL." Van Dvki:;n said. "I didn't think that rnming in. but ingP is swimming fast." 
Can tlw. !~lying Dutr.lnvoman be def'r.ati:;d? "Yes." Van Dyken rnpliP<l without any hesita­tion. 
Tlw '.,() f'nwsty!P is tht> only individual ewnt for Van Dvknn at ,vhat is liknlv her final Olyrflpic:s. ·shP also was part of thP world rncord-sPtting team in the 400 freestyle rnlay. 
"If' I start thinking about that, I'll get all ('motional." Van Dyken said. "You'vp, got to go out tlwrA and swim like you'rr. going to be sv\imming for the next 10 years." 
De Bruijn is swimming like that. already assurnd of being an Olympic star _no matter what happens in her last individual event. 
'Tm just having fun," she said. "I fcPI on top of the world. really confidP.nt and comfortable. It l'P.cls likP. I am in a drnam." 
The Australians brought out Ian Thorpe again for lhe anchor leg of ttrn men's rm~dley relay, Pvcn though hp's bP:Pll bothen'd by an upper rnspirntory infection. 
Still, the Aussies managed only tlrn l'ourth­bPst tinrn (:~::~9.38) in qualif'ying, just bf'hind tho Am~rican t11arn of Neil Walker, Fd Moses, Tommy l!annan and Jason Lezak at 3::-{8.59. 
Germany led with 3:38.50 and Hungary took sP.1'.ond in 3:38.58. 
"It's no longPr Australia vs. the USA," Moses said. "Wr,'re just trying to run that medal f'ounl up and get as many peoplP. to medal as possibln." 
Thn U.S. team or Counney Shoaly, Staciana St.Hts. Ashley Tappin and Van Dyk<'n struggfPd to l'ourth in preliminari<'s of the women's 400 mdlf1y rnlay in 4:0(l.l (1. Australia led with 
'4:04.7G. followed by .Japan and Gernrnny. 
Tappin swam thn final race of lwr career. Thn two-limo gold medalist will be dropped from tlw team for Saturday's final, as will Van Dyken. 
Tho 25-year-old Tappin said sho plans to open "the hottr,st nightclub ever in San Diego." 
'Tve bnen s\·vimming !'or ·16 years." Tappin said. "Knowing this was my last race. I wanted it tu be happy one. I was smiling thr. whole time." 
KitHP.n Perkins must know the feeling. WriLtcn off br.fore the Olympics, Im began pur­suit of an unprAcedented third straight gold in the 1,500 freestyle with a stunning time in the preliminaries. 
The 27-year-old Aussie was top qualifier in 
14:58.34, pounding the water and thrusting an 
arm skyward as the sellout crowd at the 
Sydney International Aquatic Center roared. 

TRACK AND FIELD 
Johnson, Greene, Jones sprint past opponents 

KRT Photo 
Michael Johnson had the fastest qualifying time in the 400 meters Thursday to advance to the second round in Sydney. 
Associated Press 
SYDNEY 

Michael Johnson wore gold shoes. Maurice Greene wore a smile. Marion Jones chickened out on her chance to wear something really dif­ferent. 
All three strolled to wins in first-round heats as track and field events began Friday !Thursday night EDT) at the Sydney Olympics. 
Jones began her quest for five gold medals with a leisurely win in 11.20 seconds in her heat of the women's 100. She wore custom-made black shoes covered with shiny chrome, instead of the radical pair designed for her for the games. 
Johnson. glancing to his left several times down the closing stretch to see if anyone was rlose behind. strolled to an easy victory in bis first-round heal of the men's 400. 
-

Johnson finished in 45.25 seconds and advanced to Saturday's second round. Joining him in tlrn next round were U.S. teammates Alvin Harrison and Antonio Pettigrnw, who also won their heats. · 
Harrison. wearing a full body suit and long sleeves on a hot, sunny day. had the fastest qualif'ying time of' 44.96. 
Johnson. master of' the men's 400 for more than a rlPcadn, is an overwhelming favorite to beronrn the first man to win the event in ronscc­utivo Olympics. Ile has won four straight world championships. setting the world record of 
43.18 seconds while winning that. title last year. 
"It f'elt pretty easy today, so I think I got the mission accomplished." Johnson said. "It's real­ly great to gr,t it started. It was a fun week hanging out down here, but now it's business and I'm ready to get it going." 
-
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Belles look to score for victory 

l\y SARAH RYKOWSKI Spurts Wrircr 
The ganw plan is lhe same: tlrnv want to win. Thl'V won last vo,ir. bul aftPr Manch.est.-r they know thaL is no guarantef'. 
Wlwn llw B1dl('S l'a(:e Adrian on Saturdav. thev hav0 two thin!{S on their minds. First. to score. and. scwond. to come back to Saint Marv's tlw victor. 
"I am re.;dv to go oul Llrnrn and win sincn Lim loss WednPsday Iagainst \1anchester] was so disappointing." freshman Stephanie Artnak said. "I. think wl' can take ,\drlan by surprise bPc'aUSI' we' have a lot of heart and we ·rn finally !{oing to put it all togPliH'r." 
The Bulldogs, who will host Saturday's match. nnter the game with more than a little to prove after league Ioss0s to Hope and Olivet. They also have a score to sflttln after last yr.ar's defeat at the hands ol' the Belles in the final minutr of double overtime. 
In that game. currm1l Bcllns co-captain lfoathcr Muth. then a freshman. ,mded a seemingly endless game with a last-minute shot which snuck past Bulldogs· nnlminder Sarah Moulik, also a freshman. Moulik l'inished the season wilh an Adrian record­setting 1.97 GM. 
'Tm just ready lo do it again. if necessary," Mu th said. "llopnflilly we'll b(1 at them in rngulation this year." 
tast year's victory over the Bulldogs marks Lhr. only loss Adrian suffered in a total of six ovortimos. The Bulldogs finished the 1999 season with a 7-9-2 record. This season thcv arc :1-5 overall and 0-2 ln the M'ti\A. 
Saint Mary's will far.fl tough competition in returning Adrian players. Adrian senior Kelly Neumann is a thrn1'-tinrn /\11­MIAA llonorable Mcnlion. and has thrC'e goals thus l'ar this sea­s011. Sophomore Jonny Perrin led tlw Bulldogs last year wilh 15 points. and !reads again this year with Lhrcr. goals and one assist. Moulik has a 1.57 CiAA average just into tho 2000 sP.a­son. 
The Btilldogs.arn conchod by 
Hick Gutinrrnz. 

---------------------------·---------­

Friday, September 22, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
NOl'R., DA,,¦¦· .,,.._ IYeelread 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Thurs v. #22 Loyola Marymount 7:00pm 
FRI v. SETON HALL 7:30pm 
Golden Dome Invitational
* First 100 students receive a free ND futbol t-shirt! SUN v. #2 UCONN 1:00pm Fri v. Wyoming 7:00pm 
* Students, get a coupon for a 

II /WOMEN'S SOCCER ~ @II FREE 6" BLIMP/E'S SUB! 
, ~ *Chance to win CHICAGO
SUN v. PITT 3:00pm W 
BEARS TICKETS!

* Students, attend any soccer game and get a FREE 6" SUB this weekend at BLIMPJE's! at v. #4 Colorado State 7:00pm 
SOCCER #24VOLLEYBALL 
FOURTH AND INCHES 

roo INVeNrs THE QUARTl:Qt>OG 1i/ 
i\UCH.,\EI.. RRING i\\E YOtlRHNf.ST l;\IGREDIENrs 

Fox TROT 
MOM, 1S "GREAT EXPEc­
1T'S ONE oF M'l' ALL-TLME lT 01< IF I TAT1ot,1S"? 
FA\/oRITE NOVELS, PM:,E. 

YoU'iE GOING To LO\/E IT, Tt-llS SooK? , , I PRo ' 
Bol<Row ASSoLUTELY. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Stop along the Trans-Siberian
1 Strikes among Railroad
co-workers? 37 Traveling
10 Overthrow, e.g. 39 American
15 Engineer's chicken variety 
charge 16 Its cp.pital is 
42 Soap scent St-Etienne 46 Guinea 17 Really dresses 47 Put one's name down on 18 It ends in a 
49 Hawaiian 

point 
harvest 19 Lift, so to speak 
50 Crate 20 Wizard's need 
53 Ball girl? 22 Managed 55 Hebrew for 23 Article in Die "day" 
Zeit 56 Flying Circus 25 Fixed performer 26 Rooter's noise? 59 Arises 28 "Cool!" unexpectedly 
31 Beverage suffix 61 Cell dissolution 32 It may be stolen 62 Mottled mount 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

64 Balances 
65 Stadiumgoer 
66 like some 
mountains 67 African danger 
DOWN 
1 Places for bieres 2 Like 29-Down 
3 "The Far Country'' actress Calve! 
4 You may be down on one 5 Eliminate one's shadow? 6 Wok concoction 7 Nova 8 Math makes up half of it: Abbr. 9 record 10 Short and sweet? 11 Criticize in no uncertain terms 

33 One way to
12 Chicken breasts 

travel: Abbr.
may come with it 35 Cartoonist Keane
13 "As You Like Ir 
hero 

36 Fighting 14 One might do it 38 Strained after being 
39 Word after two, 
stamped 

three or four 
21 African dangers 

40 Eton's founder 
41 Cut into
impulse? 

27 Joined together 43 Lets go 29 "Wellaway!" 44 Awakening 30 Blotto 45 Guests 
TYLER
TOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

SORRY, LORD. NO CAN 00. ALL WE HAVE LEFT ARE RATS, . BEEF HEARTS, AND 
Free Ne.w 
POTASSIUM BENZOATE 

Te6t~~e~+,-...-----------i 
-\­
BILL AMEND 
• 

METHINl<S THANKS. I 1 NEED DIDN'T WANT 
0
LOWERED To SMASH THAT 

Cl EXPEc­SPIDER WITH M'( TATLONS. NEW COSMO. 
' C)v' 

Those guys are everywhere. 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sugar Ray Robinson, Greg Gumbel Doug Henning,. Mary Hop­kin. Pete Seeger 
Happy Birthday: Don't just sit there. You have to make things hap­pen if you want to get ahead. Take your ideas and put them into motion. You need to be the force that turns your thoughts into reality. This is a period of great opportunity if you are hardworking and prepared to bend in order to get your objectives out into the open. Your numbers: 3, 8, 12, 23, '2:7, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Prob­lems with peers will develop if you spend too much time together. Put your terrific ideas into motion. You can improve work efficiency and free up some time. Do your own thing. 
00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Lend a helping hand to youngsters. They may be having a problem under­standing their homework. Your abili­ty to help them and make them feel good about themselves at the same time is a gift. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll have to back down and be honest if you've been taking advantage of someone you live with. He or she won't be willing to put up with any 
48 Take off 57 Definitive lame excuses. 000 CANCER <June 21-July 22): Plea­
51 Breezing 58 Actor Omar 

sure trips will lead to romance. You through 60 Prepare to be will entice suitable mates just by being your warm, empathetic self.
52 No bruiser shot 

You don't have to exaggerate or 
54 They have 63 His name is· a spend a lot of money to make an heads and letter short of impression. 000 threads his description LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't 
make hasty career decisions. If you work hard, you will get the rewards Answers to any three clues in this puzzle you deserve. Getting involved in are available by touch-tone phone: 
office gossip will only stand in the 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

Birthday Baby: You have everything going for you except motivation. If Annual subscriptions are available for the you can push yourself when necessary throughout life, you will accomplish best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 your goals. If you sit back and wait for others to do the work for you, nothing 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. will be achieved. 
EUGENIA LAST 
way of your advancement. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Hold onto your hat. You will find yourself in a difficult position if you have overreacted to emotional situations. Your need to overdo it will cause frus­tration and anxiety. Don't overload your plate. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Get busy clearing up those loose ends. Deal with government agencies that have been dawdling with your per­sonal paperwork. You need to force issues if you want to accomplish your 
goals.0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Min­gle with those in high places. Your ability to win favors will put you in a pretty good position. Don't be shy: Let them know your ideas and your intentions. You'll get the help you 
need.000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22•Dec. 21): 
You'll have problems with both your colleagues and your spouse if you've been exaggerating again. You need to get back on track. You don't need to impress anyone. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Travel will be in your best interests. It's time you met in person some of the clients with whom you've been spending so much time on the phone. 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't run yourself ragged. Fatigue will set in and you'll make poor deci­sions. You need to organize yourself well and make the most of your talents. Don't make unreasonable promises. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be careful how you deal with your part­ner. He or she will be upset easily if you aren't precise with your choice of words. You will achieve the most if you concentrate on your job. 00 



PORTS 
page 24 OBSERVER 
VOLLEYBALL 
Run for God's sake 
Notre Dame hosts the National Catholic Invitational Friday. 
page 18 
Weekend games begin with victory 
Ry RACHAEL PROTZMAN Sport, Writer 
No. 24 Notn' Danrn volleyball got a head start on this weekend's Goldf'n Dome Invitational with a close victory 05-<J, l(i-14. 15-17. 16-14) against No. 22 Loyola Marymount Thursday. 
"1•:verv. ganw was vnry tight. It was a very evnnly playPd matrh." Irish lwad coach Debbie Brown said. "If vou look at Lhe rankings. LIH•v'rp 22, wf''rp 24. it is prntty closP." 
Ahrr !'ailing in game om'. Loyola came back to dominalf' ganw two a<'tion. But they fell shorl of taking the game. 
Tlw Lions struggkd Lo take the lead in the b,,ginning of thn game. but Wf'rn able to grasp it bd"on' thr1 Irish s<·ored six straight points for tlw win. Loyola Marymounl Look ·charge narly in ganw threr. allowing Notn• Danw Lo scorn 011P bdnn' taking the lead. The Irish wnrr~ not going to Pnd tlw ganw tlwrn. how<wnr. and put up a fight. 
With a 14-11 scorn Notn• Damp canw back with f'our points Lo takP tlw [rad bPfore thP Lions scored thrnP Lo claim tlw victory. 
Brown said tlw Irish own part of Lhrir win to Loyola's prndil'tahility. 
"I think that wr'rp more balanced than th<cy art' so whPn it conws down to il tlinr(• WPre sonw tirnrs when we had an advantage b(~causo we knPW PXadly what thoy were going to do," Brown said. "Thf1y were a lot morn prPdictable." 
Notrn l>anrn's struggle f'or dominance contin­und in game four as tlrn Lions matclwd the Irish point for point. Notre Dame Pnded the matt'.h by gaining control al the 1rnd as it scon\d two for the 16-14 win. 
Tht1 Irish beli,we tlw win will go far in boost­ing I.Pam rnntidencf1. 
··1 think lthti winl givrs us rnnfidence for a lot." Brown said. "Beating .a toµ 2:i team is important and also just being in a tough situa­tion and having to battle back and forth for points and rnming out on top is huge." 
'Tm exc·ited about Lim win," she added. "ll was a good tnam clfort and I think that the team playrd with a lot of' !mart." 
Tim Irish will fac11 Wyoming today in game two of' ttw Golden Dome Invitational at 7 p.m. in thP Joyce Centrr and No. 13 Colorado State on Saturday at 7 p.m. 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Undefeated squad travels to West Virginia 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sporrs Writer 
It's bPcn said that with suc­ress comes a grPat burdPn. If' that is indeed in the case. then the Notrn Dame women's soccrr tnam will have the weight of the world on iL'> shoulders when it travels to West Virginia tonight for a kr,y llig East confernnrn showdown. 
The undefeated Fighting Irish have enjoyPd trrmendous pros­perity of late. and are ranked No. 1 in the new polls ndeased earlier in the week. Head coach Randy Waldrum says playing with such a mantle could be a problem. 
"To an extent it's a burden," Waldrum said. "If we let it get to us it could be a detri­ment." 
W a Id ­
r u m s 

strategy thus far has be1111 to skirt the 

issue. He has yet to discuss the ranking with his team. 
"We're aware of where we are," said Waldrum. "It's some­thing we'll eventually have to" cover as a group," 
While thr, Irish may not like to discuss their ranking, their counterparts at West Virginia are all too eager to do so. 
A sold-out crowd is suspected when the 7-1 Mountaineers entertain the Irish tonight with first place in the Mid-Atlantic division on the line. 
Emotions have traditionally run high between the two 

schools. as West Virginia has been trying to knock off national power Notre Oame f'or years. The No. 1 ranking currently held by the Irish only serves as 
motivation  for  the  
Mountaineers.  
"I think we  always have a  

bull's eye painted on our backs. becaus11 we're Notre Dame. but I think our ranking might be make it a bit bigger." Waldrum admitted. 
Waldrum is concerned about taking his newly crowned team 
see WOMEN/page 17 Friday, September 22, 2000 
MEN'S SOCCER 
ND hosts UConn, Seton Hall 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
After oVf\rcoming early-sna­son o!Tem;ive jitters. the Irish mrn's socc!'f' team (:~-2-1. 1-l in the llig East) carries a two­gamP winning streak into this Wf'<~kr.nd's ganrns against con­fornnre rivals Snton llall and Connecticut. 
The Irish lakP on tlw PiratPs of' Seton llall tonight at 7:30 bel'or<' thl' No.4-rank1\d Iluskies invade Alumni FiPld Sunday at I p.m. 
"I think WP havP a good enough team to go 2-0 this wrekend." said Irish hrad coach Chris Appl<1, "But both trams arr strong Pnough to heat us as Wl'II." 
Tonight's game matches tlw Irish against a Pirates squad which has shown l'Iashes on olfonsP but -lik<' tlw Irish at the beginning of' the season ­have not been ablP to put tlw ball in the not. SPton I !all fell 1-0 to Boston College in its lasl game, despite outshooting the Eagles 17-3. 
"That's the gamP or soccPr." said Apple. "The beauty of' our sport is that you can be an inferior team. get a lucky shot or a penalty kick. play good defonse. and win." 
The Pirates will br led on offense by junior forward Greg Strohman and sPnior midfield­er Brian Cuddy. who havP six and seven points on the sea­son. rrspectivf'ly. 
The Irish look to match thP Pirates with a revamped offense that has outscored opponents 5-1 in the last two games. 
With the return of sopho­more forward Erich Braun ­last year's Big East Bookie of' the Year -Apple has been able to movn frnshman .Justin Detter back to his natural posi­tion in the midfield. In addi­tion, senior tri-captains Steve Maio and Dustin Pridmorr. have traded back positions. with Pridmore moving to marking back and Maio play­ing stopper-back. 
Pridmore responded to the changes quickly, ~coring his. first goal of the season in Notre Dame's 3-0 shutout of' Syracuse Sept. 16. 
In addition, freshman Chad Hiley has emerged as a scoring threat. scoring a goal at Syracuse before aiding in both 
see SOCCER/page 16 

at !TA Narional Clay • Cross Country at Adrian 
ar Michigan State s~
(tr) Courts National Catholic Invite Saturday, noon.
SPORTS ,-::::;,.,,a ~,~ Saturday, 3:30 p.111. 
Today-Sunday Today, 5 p.m. 
ATA 
at Olivet

vs. Seton Hall '@ Golden Dome Invitational Cross Country 
Today, 7:30 p.m. Sarnrday, l p.m. 
~ · Today-Saturday ffi MIAA Jamboree s~ 
Saturday
GLANCE 

Friday, September 22, 2000 
game preview 
page2 
focus on Boiman 
page3 
rosters 
page4 
ODERVER 

focus on Michigan State 
page 5 

college games this week 
page 6 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 22, 2000 
gan1e hype 

Irish must become road warriors to win 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Assistant Sports Editor 
Current Notre Dame seniors 
have seen almost everything 
from the Irish football team. 
In 1997, the newcomers to campus saw Jim Sanson miss three field goals as Notre Dame fell 20-l 7 to rival USC. The next year it enjoyed thri season-opening victory over defending national champion Michigan. 
As juniors. the team moved closer to the SO-yard line only to see the Irish drop the last four games of the season. Already this year, Lhe seniors have seen the Irish take the top-ranked 'Huskers down to the final seconds. 
However, throughout thriir Lime under the Golden Dome, Irish seniors have yet to wit­ness a Notre Dame victory over Highway 31 nei!.{hbor Michigan State. The Irish have fallen 23-7, 45-23 and 23-13 each of the last three seasons. · 
"We'd like to think we are an improved football team," said head coach Hob Davie. "But until we go win a game on the road, I don't know that we can say that." 
Taking down the Spartans will not be an easy task for Davie's team. Michigan State has won its last six games dat­ing back to last season, led by a tough defense and the strong play of tailback T.J Duckett. 
The Irish have succeeded this season behind a strong defense and an overachieving 

Gary Godsey Irish quarterback 
"Playing up 
there, it is not an easy place to play. They are good. Bu.t for u.s to be good, we need to go win a game like this. " 

Rocky Bolman Irish linebacker 
"We're going to come out and try to establish a Jew things sooner rather than later. ,, "We don't like that they beat us the last three years. It·s a good oppor­tunit.lJ to show everyone what 
Notre Dame); 
all about." 

Bob Davie Irish head coach 
"ft 's going 
to be a war in there this game." 


special teams squad. After returning two kicks for touch­downs to take Nebraska into overtime, Notre Dame took advantage of three field goals and a blocked punt against Purdue. Junior cornerback Shane Walton intercepted Heisman Trophy-candidate Drew Brees' pass and returned it for a touchdown. 
"I think those things not only inspire the fans," said Davie, "but they inspire the players as well. 
Sophomore Gary Godsey, playing in place of injured Arnaz Battle, "''ill once again lead the offense. Godsey com­pleted 14 of 25 passes -one more completion than Brees -while playing in a limited offense last week. 
"It means we arc going to have to do something a little bit different now to be able to run the ball," said Davie of his struggling running game. 
Sophomore Julius Jones made his first career start in the Nebraska game, compiling 227 all-purpose yards. 
On defense, sophomore Ryan Roberts is making his second career start in place of injured captain Grant Irons. Linebackers Hocky Boiman and Anthony Denman each have two sacks, while Denman leads the team with 29 tack­les. 
Defensive backs Tony 
Driver, Brock Williams, Ron Israel, and Walton have been successful in limiting two top­ranked passing teams in Purdue and Nebraska. 
Davie described the opening minutes of the 1998 loss, the last time the Irish entered Spartan Stadium. "When you have a punt blocked late in the game, when you throw inter­ceptions for touchdowns, when you give up big plays on defense, it doesn't matter if you're playing in your back­yard if you are playing like that," said Davie. 
The next step in proving this team's strength is a win in Michigan State's backyard Saturday. 


Friday, September 22, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Boiman blends fiery play with will to improve 
. Linebacker intimidates foes but shows soft spot off-field 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN A~sociace Spom Editor 
The sight of linebacker Rocky Boiman sends shivers down opposing players' spines, with his devilish fire-red hair, glare that shoots bullets and imposing physique. The fierce competitor intimidates foes from the moment he marches onto the football field. 
A different image arises in the mind of 11-year-old Lindsey Boiman, Rockv's sister. 
"That's ju~t on the football field." Lindsey said. "He loves football and just takes it really seriously. He's not exactly the kind that would come and beat me up like some brothers 
would." 
Rocky Boiman might as well have a split personality, for all the similarities between his per­sona on and off the field. 
"On the field, he's nasty -he goes after you," said Steve Rasso, Boiman's coach at St. Xavier High School in Cincinnati, Ohio. "Off the field, he's soft-spo­ken, looks like a booksy type of guy. He's really a gentleman, but when he buckles that chinstrap, you'd better watch out." 
Staring down the opposition 
Once he suits up in his Notre Dame uniform, Boiman displays no qualms about tackling an opposing player with all the force of a tow truck. 
"When I'm on the field, I think I'm in a different kind of mental state," Boiman said. 'Tm just so focused on what we have to do. I just want to get to the ball carri­er, knock somebody down, do whatever it takes. I take it life­or-death serious wise." 
The team's third-leading tack­ler, Boiman tears opposing teams' offenses to shreds with his speed and power. In the first three games of 2000, he's already registered 24 tackles, including two sacks. 
"Every time I'm ·out there, I just tell myself I want to dump it out, dump everything I have out on that field, and after the game, I don't even want to be able to walk because I gave my best effort," Boiman said. 
Boiman carries so much inten­sity into games and practice that he even surprises his own team­mates at times. 
"He doesn't back down to other players from other teams," fellow linebacker Tyreo Harrison said. "You might have to hold him back a little bit. He fits really well into the aggres.<;ive defense, especially what the coaches want this year, the intimidation factor." 
Rasso added, "He 
h a s unbelievable intensitv. He's the kind uf guy who was born to play football. You'd have to kick him out of the weight room. He loved to come to practice." 

Improvement comes naturally to Boiman's game -it's the product of 100 percent effort (WAry day in practice. 

Bolman

"Something I'm really con­cerned with is trying to get bet­
position: outside linebacker 

ter each week, better each day, whatever that takes," Boiman year:junior said. "I just want to improve in awards: Southwest Ohio all areas as a football player, no 
Player ofthe Year, high 

matter what they are. No one 
school captain and MVP,

area do I want to limit myself 
selected for Ohio North­
to." 

Notre Dame linebackers coach South all-star game and Kirk Doll appreciates the energy Ohio-Pennsylvania Big 33 and work ethic Boin1an gives to 
all-star game
the Irish. 
notables: recorded 39

"I think he brings an attitude of physical toughness," Doll tackles in '99 and already said. "The way he practices and has 24 in the first three plays is a great example to the games this year, second on younger kids. You always want 
Irish sacks list with two in

them to improve each week, 
2000,recovered three 

and I think Rocky's dom~ that." 
fumbles a year ago 
All in the family 

The grit necessary to succeed with his sister. 
on the gridiron runs in the "My parents arc so great. I Boiman family. Rasso, who's wouldn't be where I'm at with­been coaching high school foot­out my parents, and that's some­ball for 38 years, also coached thing they've kind of molded me Boiman's father, Michael, as a towards," Rocky said. "They player for LaSalle High School. said, 'Hey, there are a lot of "His dad was like 5-foot-8, 5-crazy things that happen in this foot-9, maybe 185 pounds, but world, a lot of hurt and bad he was tough as nails," Rasso things. If you can just make life said. "He [Rocky] takes after his easier for somebody else or just 
father, and is as tough as nails. I make people enjoy life a little bit. can see where he gets that foot­then you're helping out."' ball side of him." 
Although Michael Boiman 
When Irish eyes are smiling 

never played college football, 
Boiman harbored dreams of 

Rocky says it's his dad who's playing for the Irish even as a helped him most to improve as a 
youngster, in time earning a 
player. 
scholarship to Notre Dame, and 

"He's taught me much
so later, a spot in the starting line­about drive and working hard. 
up.

What he's taught me is just to 
"It's somewhere I've wanted to 

learn all that I can from a bunch play ever since I was little, so for 
of different people," Boiman 
me to be on the team and to be 

said. "If you see somebody doing successful is just a dream come 
something 
t r u e , " good, doing Boiman said. 
something the 

"Hes really a gentleman, "I feel so 
right way, ask lucky to have

but when he buckles 
them, ask 
this opportu­

them to show that chinstrap, you'd 
nity to be it to you until 

better watch out. ,, blessed like I 
you get it am. To be in down." 
this situation,

Family is the Steve Rasso 
it's really one thing that St. Xavier High School coach something comes before 
else." 
football for 
Despite his Boiman. He and his sister, childhood fantasy ofplaying foot­

Lindsey, share an especially 
ball for the Irish, Boiman avoid­close bond. 
ed leaping into Notre Dame "My little sister, she's 11­

blindfolded. 

years-old, and it's a big age dif­
"I took the time to look at 

ference, but even with that, I other places, too," Boiman said. 
think that we're very, very 
"But I still really fell in love with close," Rocky said. "I think she 

the place. E Someplace else 

looks up to me and I try to do might look better at the time, but whatever I can to help her out I just thought, 20, 30 years from because she's a tremendous per­now, how could I look back and son, she's going to be a tremen­say, ·r turned down a scholarshipdous person." 
to Notre Dame.' There's no way I The feeling is mutual. 
could do that" 

"We're really close. He does a 
Boiman signed with Notre 

lot for me, me being his younger Dame over Michigan and a host sister," Lindsey said. 'Tm really of other Big 10 schools prior to proud of him and he's worked his senior year of high school.
really hard. He deserves to be 
YAt Aven his strong academic 
out there." 
background at Xavier and life­Rocky holds his relationship long dream of coming to Notre 

with his parents, Michael and 
Dame failed to fully prepare him Linda, as dear to him as that for the rigors of being a Notre Dame student-athlete. 


"A lot of people don't realize it's really tough to play here," Boiman said. "Just with the pressures of academics and the pressures to win week in and week out, an individual has to be pretty mentally tough to play here and be successful here. 
"People are always watching what you do, good or bad, and they especially notice when you do something bad, so that's something that you've got to be aware of." 
As a pre-professional major considering going into medicine, Boiman bears an even heavier burden than most athletes do. But the demands that accompa­ny a Notre Dame football schol­arship haven't lowered Boiman's opinions of the school. In fact, they may have raised them. 
"I can't really say in one thing or another, but Notre Dame is special," Boiman said. "I don't care what anybody says, but we could lose the rest of our games this season and next vear and the year after that: and we would still be Notre Drune. Notre ~ame is colleg~. football as far as l m concerned. 
Afl.er a surpris.ingly -sLrong 2-1 start against three top-25 teams, the Irish don't appear to be in danger of going on an eight­game losing streak. 
"The team's potential is tremendous," Boiman said. "I 
think the sky's the limit. As far as I'm concerned, this is the best defense and has the potential to be the best defense since I've been here. I think the intensity and the desire that we play with was unmatched in the other years." 
The passion and desire Boiman senses on this year's Irish are putting wins on the . Irish record, which, coming on the heels of a 5-7 season, are as welcome as sunshine on a winter day in South Bend. 
"Last year, it was hard, but l think in the long term, that was a good thing for us," Boiman said. "Sometimes Coach Davie talks about how you've got to feel bad before you can feel good. I think we kind of saw that bad side and that dark side. We worked through that, and now things are really starting to pay off for us." 
Boiman's hard work and posi­tive attitude are certainly paying dividends for both he and his teammates as they continue to exceed all preseason expecta­tions. Right now, they're holding target practice each day with the bulls' eye being the National Champfonship. 
"The team's potential is tremendous," Boiman said. "I think the sky's the limit. Weck in and week out, it's going to take an unbelievable effort from both sides of thA field," 


~ 
birthdate: January 24. r980 field: relentless be: his sister Lindsey 
hometown: Cincinnati, Ohio word to describe him on the area he would most like to 
dorm: Knott field: driven improve: every area 
major: pre-professional greatest personal athletic top goal: to win the National 
up close & 
personal 
dimensions: 6-foot-4, 240 moment: yet to come Championship 
lbs. ii he could bring anything from sports team he followed WITH ROCKY 80IMAN word to describe him off the home to Notre Dame it would growing up: Notre Dame 
I_______________________________________________________ _ 
page 4 
Fighting Irish schedule 
Sep.2  TEXASA&M  w  
Sep.9  ~  L  
Sep,..,.)JU1fDUE  w  
lt;~~State  
-N~  ..  ,,.  
Oct. 21  at West Virginia  
Oct.28  AIR FORCE  
Nov. 11  BOSTON COLLEGE  
Nov.18 at Rutgers  
Nov.25 at USC  


fourth season at Notre Dame 
career record: 
23-r7 
at Notre Dame: 
23-r7 
Davie against Michigan 
head coach State: 0-3 
Roster 
No.  Name  Poa.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
I  8r()ck WifJiams.  Cl!  5-W  190  SR  
2  Carloo Pleorrl.'-Antuinl~ It.B  6-3  242  JR  
2  Dan Novakov  QB  6-1  220  so  
3  Amaz&ttll'  (JB  t,-1  211!  JR  
4  Justin Smith  FS  5-11  197  SR  
5  Run J:.;rad  ss  6-0  2ll8  SR  
h  David Givens  FL  6-3  217  JR  
7  Carlyle Holiday  Qll  6-2  190  FR  
l.lirt~nzu Crawford  WR  5-l 1  175  FR  
9  Jami Clark  QB  1'>-4  220  FR  
Ill  Matt Lo Vecchio  Qll  6-3  200  FR  
10  Ryan Krut'~l'r  Qll  5-Y  178  JR  
ll  Jay Johnson  SE  5-11  195  FR  
12  Tony Fisher  TH  6-2  225  JR  
1J  N1ckSetta  K/1'  6-0  175  so  
13  Juc Recendi•z  QB/TE  6-(J  222  SR  
14  Gary Godsey  QB  6-7  240  so  
15  Cliff1ird Jcffcrnm  en  5-9  180  JR  
lo  Abram Elam  QB/DB 6-1  190  FR  
17  Joey l lildbold  I'  5-10  190  so  
18  Joey Getherall  H.  5-7  175  SR  
!Y  Gl,mnE..:1rl  ss  6-2  215  so  
20  Gemme Sapp  rs  6-0  210  FR  
21  Ja\'in Huntl'r  SE  6-0  1R6  JR  
22  Julius Jon~s  TU  5-IU  201  so  
2.1  Chrb Yura  l'B  5-11  211  so  
24  Chad DcBolt  CB  5-10  193  so  
25  Tony Driver  FS  6-2  220  SR  
26  Garron Bible  RB  5-10  185  FR  
27  fas.on Bt,'Ckstn)rn  CB  5-IO  190  so  
2ll  Donald Dykc.,;  ss  5-11  195  JR  
29  Brian Olmiczak  1'1.  5-11  195  SR  
:10  Rocky Bolman  OLB  h-4  240  JR  
31  Dwayne Francis  CH  6-0  195  JR  
32  Terrance I i-1.,ward  TB  6-1  195  JR  
:13  Courtney Wdtson  ll.ll  6-1  220  so  
34  Vontez Duff  RB  6-1  175  FR  
34  Jascint Vukelich  FB  5-IO  229  SR  
35  David Mill,•r  K  5-11  191  JR  
35  TimONeill  TH  5-5  170  JR  
3b  Tt>m Lnpicnski  FB  6-1  245  JR  
38  Prestc:m Jackson  DB  5-10  172  FR  
:18  Erle Nel-.on  I.fl  6-0  225  JR  
39  Anthony Drnman  11.B  6-2  235  SR  
40  Jason Murray  l'B  6-l  259  SR  
41  MikeGo<Jisby  LB  h-4  225  fR  
42  Shane Walton  CB  5-1 l  183  JR  
43  Anthony Urannan  ILi!  5-10  215  SR  
44  Grant Irons  DE  6-5  275  SR  
45  Matt Sarb  ss  5-ll  201  JR  
-lb  jl'remy juarez  l'B  5-11  251  SR  
47  M1keMcNair  l'B  b-0  240  JR  
48  Kvlc Budinscak  rn.  6-5  250  FR  
4'1  ri;,rek Curry  LB  h-4  225  FR  
50  Cedric Hilliard  DT  6-2  290  so  
51  Tyreo I tarrison  II.A  6-2  242  JR  
52  Jdf Faine  C  6-3  292  so  
52  Mark Mitchell  OLB  5-10  220  SR  
53  Jason l lalvorson  LB  6-2  230  so  
54  Luigi Rao  !LU  5-10  215  SR  
55  Jim Jones·  lX;  6-2  310  SR  
5b  Pat Rydn  IIB  6-3  235  so  
57  Justin Th~)mas  OLB  6-1  245  so  
58  Joseph Mueller  LB  5-11  195  SR  
5'1  Brian Oicrckman  IIB  6-1  255  SR  
60  Darrell Campbl'II  DE  6-4  285  so  
t,I  Mike Zelenka  FB  6-()  225  SR  
62  CaSl"V Robin  OT  6-7  305  SR  
63  Brcn~an Curtin  m  6-8  315  so  
o-1  John Crowth~r  C  6-2  240  JR  
ll5  St•an MiUi~an  OC,  i>-4  295  so  
no  JW Jordan  C  6-1  275  SR  
1,7  RyanG,lli,,  OG  6-3  292  so  
ft/  M,keCan<ly  oc  6-4  315  SR  
70  JimMolinam  DE  6-6  265  so  
72  Ryan Scarola  oc  6-5  301  JR  
73  Adam T1bbfo  K  5-ll  20!  JR  
75  Kurt V<>lfc,rs  OT  b-7  3W  SR  
?t,  John Teasdule  OT  b-5  305  SR  
77  (;reg l'auly  DL  6-6  275  fR  
7K  (ordan Blad.  OT  b-&  310  JR  
7Y  Si..•an Mahan  OT  6-3  288  JR  
80  ( )mar J(..:onkins  WR  6-2  180  FR  
HI  Jt'romL' Collins  WR  &-4  200  FR  
82  ~lmnic .Rtx:fanu..•r  WI\  h-4  185  FR  
82  t3,..1rnard Akatu  SE  5-10  180  JR  
83  Josh Gentile  K/1'  5-11  19\1  so  
8.1  Brendan Harl  Tl'  t,-3  250  fR  
H4  John Owens  DE  t,-3  265  JR  
8.~  Jdfrt-y Campb,•11  TE/PE  6-1  200  JR  
I!(,  Dan O'Leary  TE  6-3  260  SR  
87  Jabari Holluway  n:  6-3  260  SR  
a'I  Gerald Mor)!;an  rn  6-4  2f>l  IR  
<JO  (.dna' l.A.'grc1.•  NG  6-l  285  SR  
91  Andrew [)l>mpsey  OE  6-2  265  SR  
92  Matt McNew  K  1\-3  200  SR  
91  BJ Scutt  f)T  b-3  290  SR  
'14  Andy Wbnc  L>T  6-3  272  SR  
95  Ry~rt Robrrt:,;  DF  6-2  251  JR  
%  Billy PalmN  rn  6-3  250  !'R  
'/K  Anthony Wcawr  DT  1\-3  276.  JR  
""  )Json Sapp  Ul  1,-3  2.10  I'll  


The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

IN POSITION: offensive line 

Observer Staff Report 
The play of Notre Dame's offensive line became much more significant with the loss of Arnaz Battle. Quarterback Gary Godsey needs the best protection possible to give him maximum time to get off his passes, and this is up to the offensive line. 
The Irish have improved on the 
DEPTH CHARTS 
offensive line since last year, when they were a very young group. The extra year of experience is paying off for guards Mike Gandy and Jim Jones and tackles Jordan Black and Kurt Vallers, who are joined by center Jeff Faine. So far the line has allowed Notre Dame's quarterbacks to be sacked six times, two fewer than its opponents. The Irish have also com­mitted far fewer turnovers than in '99. 
Friday, September 22, 2000 
Spartans schedule Sep. 2 MARSHALL W Sep. 16 at.~"' W 
~:m~if=RN 
Oct.7 at Iowa <la:'14 WISCdNSIN Oct. 21 at Michigan Oct. 28 ILUNOIS Nov. 4 at Ohio Nov.11 PURDUE Nov. 18 at Penn State 

first season at 
Michigan State 
career record: 
3-0 
at Michigan State: 
3-0 
against Notre Dame: o-o 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos..  HI.  Wt.  YR  
l  Charles Rogers  WR  6-4  195  FR  
2  Herb Haygood  WR  6-0  IHH  JR  
3  Ryan Van Dyke  QB  6-5  223  JR  
4  Drew Young  LB  6-3  227  SR  
5  Lorenzo Guess  s  6-1  193  JR  
5  Nate Keusch  WR  6-0  194  JR  
"6  Jabari Hendricks  DE  6-3  270  SR  
6  Phinney Masoner  K  5-JO  164  JR  
7  Lavaile Richardson  WR  6-1  197  SR  
7  Phinnl'y Masoner  K  5-10  165  JR  
8  T.J. Duckett  TB  6-1  252  so  
9  Jeff Smoker  QB  6-4  197  FR  
JO  Tai Brown  CB  5-11  182  JR  
12  Craig Jarrett  p  6-,2  205  JR  
14  David Schaefer  K  5-10  190  JR  
15  Renaldo Hill  CB  5-11  182  SR  
16  Dan Ornt•r  PK  5-7  163  FR  
19  Jeremy Barkey  WR  6-3  220  JR  
19  DeMario Suggs  CB  5-11  196  SR  
20  Josh Lcnaburg  WR  6-0  180  FR  
21  Broderick Nl•lson  CB  6-0  170  JR  
21  Zach Sanom  TB  5-8  187  so  
22  Shawn Foster  WR  5-11  199  JR  
23  Little John Flowers  TB  6-0  220  JR  
23  Jeremy Rolinski  p  5-10  158  so  
24  Richard Brown  s  5-11  195  SR  
25  Jason Haromn  DB  b-0  185  FR  
26  Jimel Cofer  CB  6-1  197  so  
27  Duron Bryan  s  6-0  200  JR  
30  Matt Kropf  LB  6-3  243  JR  
31  Brian Bums  FB  6-4  230  FR  
32  Richard Newsome  s  5-11  198  SR  
33  Roderick Maples  DB  6-0  170  FR  
34  Tyrell Dortch  TB  5-11  195  FR  
35  Tl Turner  LB  6-2  252  SR  
36  Mark Goebel  LB  6-2  208  FR  
37  Cedric Henry  CB  5-10  183  JR  
38  Kirk Murray  TB  5-11  187  so  
39  Jeremy Fairrow  DB  6-1  197  FR  
40  Jeremiah Mclaurin  DB  6-0  180  FR  
41  Matt Dawes  LB  6-1  2.10  JR  
42  Mike Labinjo  Fil  6-l  255  so  
43  Thomas Wright  s  6-1  196  so  
44  Marcus Waters  LB  6-4  235  so  
45  Monquiz Wedlow  s  5-11  ]91  FR  
47  Travis Wilson  r..i  6-3  224  FR  
48  Bill McPherson  FB  6-1  223  so  
49  Dawan Moss  FB  5-10  248  so  
50  Josh Thornhill  LB  6-2  237  JR  
51  JoeSartav  s  6-1  230  so  
52  Dedrick Roper  LB  6-2  242  FR  
53  Adam Spina  DE  6-5  224  JR  
54  Dominick Brown  LB  6-4  234  FR  
55  James Smith  LB  6-3  238  so  
56  TonvGrant  SN  6-2  259  JR  
57  Paui Harker  ex;  6-3  305  JR  
58  Matt Branson  0G  6-2  275  JR  
59  Clifford Dukes  LB  6-3  229  FR  
60  Joe Brooks  DT  6-3  271  FR  
61  Joe Patrick  ex;  6-5  298  FR  
62  Steve Stewart  OT  6-5  296  FR  
63  Colin Smith  OL  6-3  2114  SR  
64  Pat Waters  LB  6-2  265  FR  
65  Ulish Booker  OT  6-7  290  so  
66  Quentin Jackson  OL  6-7  320  FR  
67  DeMarco Monroe  ex;  6-3  305  so  
68  Joe Tate  DT  6-5  285  FR  
69  Ray Kouba  C  6-1  275  so  
70  Dave Sucura  OG  6-4  303  SR  
71  Shaun Mason  OG  6-5  302  SR  
72  Matt Bonito  OT  6-6  305  SR  
73  Brian Ottney  C  6-6  302  FR  
74  Siitupe Pcko  OT  6-4  300  SR  
75  Nick Myers  DE  6-2  275  JR  
76  William Whitticker OL  6-5  310  FR  
77  Josh Smith  C  6-4  2114  JR  
78  Tom Camey  OT  6-2  278  JR  
79  Sean Poole  OL  6-7  273  FR  
80  Jaco Sayler  OT  6-5  295  SR  
81  Joe Savage  WR  6-3  1g2  so  
82  Ziehl Kavanaght  WR  5..·,1  181  FR  
83  Chris flaker  TE  6-3  267  so  
84  Jamt$ Ctmper  TE  6-3  210  FR  
85  Ivory McCoy  TE  6-3  230  SR  
86  Durocher Milll'r  WR  6-1  191  FR  
87  l?em<.mt Smith  WR  5-10  171  SR  
88  Luc Mullinder  TE  6-4  245  FR  
89  Bradshaw Littlejohn LB  &-2  251  FR  
S9  Erir EastPr  TE  6-3  305  FR  
90  MarcJack:;on  DE  6-4  294  so  
91  Jessie Slas  DL  6-3  305  FR  
91  Jason Bradk•y  MLB  6-0  246  FR  
92  Lonnie Simmons  DL  6-5  260  so  
93  Sumalj Gordon  DE  6-5  260  so  
94  Greg Taplin  DL  6-4  262  FR  
95  Josh Shaw  m  6-3  283  JR  
96  Grrg Yl1ai,ter  DL  6-1  265  FR  
97  Kyle Rc1smus.wn  DE  6-3  267  FR  
19~  . Owight ~hitfifld  DL  6-3  275  FR  
99  Dil1)1try lk•mard  DE  6-2  265  SR  


' 
----------•----­
---------1 

Friday, September 22, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
EYE ON THE ENEMY 
Spartans ready to top Irish for fourth-straight time 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's dofonse has passed its first three tests of the season with confidence-inspiring performances.inside the comfort of Notre Dame Stadium. 
But when the No. 16 Irish take to the road to meet the No. 20 Spartans of Michigan State Saturday, t:wo words will deter­mine whether the defense can stop the momentum the Spartans traditionally have on their home turf: T.J. Duckett. 
Despite Notre Dame's ouL­ranking of Michigan State by four spots, the 2-0 Spartans have a running arsenal few teams can top. Led by the sophomore Duckett, whom Notre Dame recruited as a tight end two years ago, the Spartans can be deadly when the ball is in his hands. 
"You have got to stop him before he gets started," lrish head coach Bob Davie said. "When he gets heading north and south, just takes it on a straight line, he is a heck of a player. Ile is real patient and then when he finds the gap, he. 
just hits it. So you have got to really be patient and be disci­plined on defense and not allow seams to occur in vour defense." 
Though Michigan State's quar­terback situation is up in the air, the Spartan offense is grounded in Duckett. The tailback touched the ball in ;{4 out of 70 offensive plays and scored the Spartans' only touchdown last weekend in Michigan State's 13-10 win against Missouri. In Michigan State's season opener against Marshall, he started the year off on the right foot with 219 rush­ing yards on 26 carries. 
As a freshman, the second­team high school All-American rushed for 606 yards on the sea­son and scored 10 out of 1he 12 Spartans' rushing touchdowns. 
But while Duckett leads the running charge, a talented Spartan corps backs him. 
"You look at Michigan State ­on offense they are big," Davie said. "Their fullbacks are big. They have two tight ends that I think are really good, [Chris Baker and Ivory McCoy]. Both the receivers played a lot last year. We know how talented they were at receiver last year. [Lavaile Richardson and Herb Haygood] both played a lot of football, talented guys." 
The potency of the Spartan running game will temper the uncertainty behind the line of scrimmage at quarterback. 
Michigan State's r,oaches pegged Ryan Van Dyke as the starter at the beginning of the season. but a bruised thumb part way through the Spartans' season op1mer sidelined the junior and threw true freshman Jeff Smoker into the fray. 
"I think they arc pretty simi­lar," Davie said. "[Smoker] is pretty far along for a young guy. If he is mobile, he throws the ball well. So does Ryan Van Dyke. So there is not much change with one of the two of them in there. [Our preparation] It is exactly the same." 
Smoker has completed 16 of 24 passes for 138 yards with only one interception in his two outings. 
While at press time Van Dyke's status for Saturday's game is uncertain, one thing is for sure: The Spartans are bent on making sure the 2-1 Irish even up their record with a loss on their first road trip of the season. 


. location: East Lansing, Michigan . Enrollment: 43,189
fast facts 
. 
Colors: Green and White 

. 
Nickname: Spartans


ABOUT 

. 
Conference: Big 10 

. 
Fighl song: Michigan Slale


MICHIGAN STATE 
College March 
. 
Spartans coach Bobby Williams took over as head coach prior to last year's bowl game. 

. 
The Notre Dame-Michigan State rivalry is one of lhe oldest in college football, and dates back to 1897. Notre Dame leads the series 41-21-1. 



SD"BA:I.IS BOYi 
XLARGE 
99 
2ND ILARGE

PI.Z.ZA 
PIZZA 7.99 

Cheese & 1 Topping Adll'I Toppings O¦ly $1.50 
No Coupon Necessary. Plus Delivery & Tax Where Applicable. · ~ot Valid With Any Other Offer. Limited Time Offer. 
54533 
Terrace ln. 
(East of Ironwood}
243-1111 

52750 U.S. 33N (N. of Oeveland Rd.)
24.3-112.2 

AROUND THE NATION 
page 6 
A LOOK AT THIS WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION Friday, September 22, 2000 
GAME OF THE WEEK 

1 2 3 
4 
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 
·­
21 22 23 
24 
25 
1 
2 
a 
4 
5 
6 
1 
8 
9 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 
21 
22 23 24 25 
Associated Press ·Top 25 
team 
Nebraska Florida State Florida Kansas State Virginia Tech UCLA Wisconsin Washington USC Michigan Clemson Miami (Fla.) Tennessee Ohio State Texas NOTRE DAME Oklahoma TCU Illinois Auburn Purdue So. Mississippi Michigan Stale Georgia Mississippi State 
re<:0rd points ···•·::;;,, 
2·0 1,747 3·0 1,723 a-o 1,545 3-0 1,459 3-0 1,412 3-0 1.408 a-o 1.349 3·0 1,331 2-0 1,126 2-1 1,107 3-0 1,030 
M 926 1-1 889 3·0 733 1-1 717 2-1 705 2·0 629 2·0 631 3·0 513 3-0 445 2·1 422 1-1 380 2-0 274 1-1 194 2·0 128 
ESPN/USA Today poll 
team record 
Nebraska 2·0 Florida Slate 3-D Florida 3-0 Virginia Tech 3-0 Kansas State 3.0 Wisconsin 3-0 Washington 3-0 UCLA 3-0 use 2-0 
Michigan 2-1 Clemson 3-0 Ohio Slate 3-0 Tennessee M Miami (Fla.) 1-1 Texas 1-1 Oklahoma 2-0 Illinois 3-0 NOTRE DAME 2-1 TCU 2·0 Michigan State 2·0 Purdue 2-1 Auburn 3·0 So. Mississippi 1-1; Georgia M Miuisslppi State 2-0 
points 
1,456 
1,424 
1,336 1,202 1,192 1,184 1,074 1,042 
964 874 810 733 
671 
662 
610 549 484 477 420 382 322 296 270 184 170 



By PEYTON BERG Sports Writer 
Lou Holtz has accom­
plished the impossible: he 
has effectively brain­
washed his South Carolina 
Gamecocks into actually 
believing that they can win 
football games. 
Their Sept. 9 win over then 10th-ranked Georgia stands as this season's biggest upset. Given the 
'Gamecocks' admitted lack of prime time talent. there is no question that Holtz's fabled leadership and motivational skills are still intact. 
The Mississippi State Bulldogs are two years removed from a SEC Westflrn Division Championship. The 2000 edition seems ready to challenge again, but needs some lucky.breaks along the way. The Bulldogs usually win with a stingy defense, but this year the 
OTHER TOP GAMES 
Clemson at Virginia 
Coach Tommy Bowden took over a Clemson program that had hit rock bottom. 
Many college football experts predict­ed a slow rebuilding process that would extend into this season. Coach Bowden answered by leading the Tigers to a 6-5 regular season, includ­ing a heartbreaking 17-14 loss to father Bobby and the Florida State Seminoles. 
Tiger quarterback Woodrow Dantzler threw for 2,713 yards a year ago, and expects to pass more this season. 
The Virginia Cavaliers are still smart­ing from the loss of All-American run­ning back Thomas Jones, older brother of rising Notre Dame star Julius. The strength or this team lies in its line­backers. 
Donnv Green, Yubrenal Isabelle, and Byron Thweatt anchor a unit that may be the best in the ACC. Virginia remains a yoar away from ACC con­tention, especially with road trips to both Florida State and Virginia Tech on the schedule. 
I 

focus switches across the line of scrimmage. 
The offensive line returns three starters from last year, including behemoth 340-pound aptly named offensive tackle "Pork Chop" Womack. This mass of humanity protects quarterback Wayne Madkin and paves the way for a talented sta­ble of running backs. Madkin has matured from a skittish freshman into a capable, experienced leader. His athleticism has bailed out the Bulldogs already this year. 
Alabama suffered a non­conference loss at UCLA, so this game is pivotal in the SEC West. The winner will not only hand the loser its first loss of the season, but also gain seri­ous momentum going into October. Given that Florida and Alabama await these two teams next week, momentum is critical. 
Observer experts 
NOTRE DAME 
S. CAROLINA 
CLEMSON 
MIAMI 
Season Record 7-5 
NOTRE DAME 
S. CAROLINA 
CLEMSON 
MIAMI 
Season Record 

Miami (Fla.) at West Virginia 
The Big East schedule kicks off for both the Hurricanes and the Mountaineers this Saturday. 
The winner of this game probably will emerge as the main challenger to defending 1999 Big East champ Virginia Tech and quarterback Michael Vick. 
Many publications had Miami return­ing to greatness and contending for the National Championship. Unfortunately, the train to the Orange Bowl quickly derailed at the hands of the Washington Huskies earlier this season. While BCS plans arc on hold for another year, the 'Canes and the Hokies should settle the Big East when they lock horns in Blacksburg on Oct. 12. 
Morgantown, WV is a dangerous col­lege football road game for any team. Like Nebraska, not much else is worth watching in West Virginia during the fall besides Mountaineer football. Sophomore Avon Cobourne was the leading rusher in the Big East last year as a freshman. After this bright spot, too many holes remain on this young ros­ter. 
around the dial 
Minnesota at Purdue 
II a.m., ESPN 
Miami at West Virginia 
2:30 p.m.• CBS 
UCLA at Oregon 
2:30 p.m., FOX 
Louisville at Florida State 
S p.m.• ESPN2 
Michigan at Illinois 
6:30 p.m.. HSPN 
Alabama at Arkansas 
8 p.m.. ESPN2 

Kathleen O'Brien 
associate editor 7-5 

NOTRE DAME MISS. STATE CLEMSON 
MIAMI 

Season Record 
Tim Casey 

assistant ed~or 7-5 
Friday, September 22, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
s ... 
quarterbacks: Godsey's offensive line: Michigan special teams: Notre Dame's the inside s only one week removed State featured the special teams unit has 
from his first college nation's No. 5 run dr>fensc emerged as the pride of snap, and hasn't played a year ago. The Irish are the Irish. as it accounted away from home. The up-and-coming. for the Purdue victory. 
edge .,,
Spartans are two-deep. Michigan State lost its top kicker and punt recruiter defensive line: The Irish to graduation. records: 2-1 sacked Brees twice last 
ct 
Overall
A.P. rank: No. 16 running backs: State's week, a task managed coaching: Davie's seen coach's poll: No. 18 Duckett ranks as one of only eight times in '99. Godsey remains
far more success in the 
s 
the nation's elite backs. The Spartans lost the bulk • first three games than somewhat of a question The Irish ran for only oftheir defensive line. mark, as does the Irish
most people expected, records: 2-0 78 yards against the and was ESPN's Coach ability to win on the 
Boilermakers.
A.P. rank: No. 23 ofthe Week last week. 
road. However, Notre
linebackers: Boiman,

coach's poll: No. 20 Williams is undefeated,
s ct Denman and Harrison Dame has soared beyond
but has only coached 
combine for a fearsome expectations in the early
three games. 
trio, bul the Spartans fea-
Series Record season thanks to its 
receivers: The Spartans ture Turner and Thornhill, 
defense and special

Notre Dame: no longer have stars a top-notch duo. 
41-21-1 

Burress and Scott. Both intangibles: Struggling on teams. After an overtime
leads 

teams feature players the road is a Notre loss to No. 1 Nebraska
secondary: The Irish have
Michigan State EVEN 5 Dame hallmark oflate,who can make big plays and two wins over top-25
picked up .<:everal intf!r­
but don't always do it. as is trouble defeating
EVEN ceplions, but can be teams, the Irish may be
the Spartans. Michigan 
inconsistent. State's No. I ready to take things to
State will haoe home 
corner. Hill, is among the 
crowd support. the next level. 
Big Ten's best. 

IRISH INSIGHT 
Ducke~t's Spartan performance causes Notre Dame headaches 
We know him as the SI guy. [Duckettl is a unique combina­
In April, this campus, Notre tion of that kind ofsize and that Dame alumni and the sporting kind of sprinter's ability." nation were all abuzz about the Strong words for a sophomore Sports Illustrated article ques­with 177 career carries. Yet, the tioning aforementioned-size (6-foot-2 whether and 252 pounds)._speed (4.45 Irish foot­seconds in the 40 and 10.9 in ball was the 100), strength (bench press­dead. ing 505 pounds) and instincts 
The pose a dangerous threat to any headline of defense. the 11-Duckett should know. page He was an All-American line­spread backer at Loy Norrix High read: "Irish Tim Casey School in Kalamazoo, recording Stew: How 102 tackles and nine sacks as a strong aca­senior. And when he wasn't
Assistant

demic wreaking havoc in the opposing
Sports Editor 

require­team's backfield, Duckett was ments, a part of Loy Norrix's option suicidal attack as a quarterback. schedule and an unproven Duckett teamed alongside coach have taken the fight out running back Little John of Notre Dame." The piece Flowers, his current Spartan devoted over 800 words at the teammate, to form a high school beginning to a high school run­version reminiscent of ning back from Michigan and Nebraska's mid-1990s duo of his father, who explained his Tommie Frazier and Lawrence son's January 1999 meeting Phillips. with Dan Saracino, the assistant When it came time to decide provost for enrollment. on college, coaches saw Duckett 
"[Saracino] assumed that my as a future Lawrence. Not son wasn't intelligent enough to Phillips but Taylor. get through his school," the Except for Davie. father said in the article. "He The Irish compared Duckett to told me, 'We don't have basket­former star Jerome Bettis and weaving at Notre Dame."' knew the quarterback could 
We all know the rest, that the excel a few more feet behind player had not taken pre-calcu­center. lus, that Saracino denied the "What we see now is what we basket-weaving reference and envisioned him being," Davie that there were other recruits said. "That's why we were in who believed Notre Dame's the hunt to recruit him." I admissions policies hindered the Duckett's version ofthe infa­Irish's on-field success. mous recruitment, circa Sept. 
In newspapers, classrooms, 19, 2000, offers an opposing 
1

bars and around the water cool­view. er at work, the anti-Notre Dame "At the time, linebacker was sentiment, always strong, grew what I really wanted to play," larger. Duckett said. "Even though, I 
But, for now, the most perti­wanted to play [tailback] too. nent words of that article were But Notre Dame wasn't going to "Notre Dame didn't formally give me the opportunity to play reject T.J., because he never linebacker at all. And Michigan 
AFP Photo

formally applied." State would let me play both 
Spartan running back T.J. Duckett, the focus of a controversial Sports Illustrated article about
On Saturday, T.J. Duckett will and by my sophomore year I 
Notre Dame's admissions requirements, has found his niche in the Michigan State offense.
mean more to Irish fans than a could decide what position I prime example of why their wanted to stay at." to his current playing weight. "I feel that if I have any ques­pass a familiar name on beloved team has not been a He began last year alternating "Say we ran ten sprints, after­tions, I can ask her," Duckett Spartans all-time rushing lists. 
serious title contender since between running back and line­ward I'd try to run five or six said. "Even though l don't get a His brother, Tico's 1,394 yards 1993. backer before switching to extras," Duckett said. "I would response, I know what she in 1990 are fifth-best in school As Michigan State's starting offense full-time in the second try to do extra things that would would say back to me. I'm dedi­history and his 4,212 career 
running back, arguably the half of the season. Duckett help me lose that weight and cating this year to her." yards are the second-highest
nation's best back, Duckett gained 606 yards and scored 10 gain my speed and endurance." Thus far, Mrs. Barham must total for a Michigan State run­poses a much stiffer challenge. touchdowns for the 10-2 Besides the extra condition­be pleased with her son's per­ner. 
''I've played against almost all Spartans but by the Citrus Bowl ing, Duckett also dealt with the formance. He has gained 350 "He can end up being one of of [the best running backs]," his weight increased to 275 death of his mother, Jacquelyn yards and scored two touch­the great backs," Davie said of Coach Bob Davie said this week. pounds. Barham. After six years with downs in two games for No. 23 T.J. "He has got a lot of ability." "Bo Jackson, Herschel Walker, In the off-season, Duckett lymphoma cancer, Barham Michigan State. And, if he con­Duckett's no longer the SI guy.
George Rogers, Eric Dickerson. dieted and ran to help get back passed away on March 17. tinues his pace, Duckett may At least for this weekend. 




-·­

Notre Dame at Michigan Seate The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 22, 2000 
.. 

STUDENT DISCOUNT Go NOTRE DAME!
Auto Service 

r----------------------------,
I I I I
:I 15% . OFF 

I 
See Your Manager for Details 

.. 
I ANYSERVICE I 
I -· I 
, Today, Tomorrow & Always! ,
L ____________________________ J 
AIR CONDITIONING • DIAGNOSTICS OIL CHANGES• FRONT END COOLING SYSTEMS • BATTERIES • BRAKES • EXHAUST SHOCKS • BELTS • WIPER BLADES • ACCESSORIES 
ca BEAT MICHIGAN STATEII 
Auto Service 



r-......

I ..,.,_--.., __{ii,' 
I 
r '--..
,. ..,
1~11. I 

,' ~ •99,' 
I t l..c1,-.,.. I 
' '~o ~e ,
l... '/:J.h -I
--....,.,_ ,,.,,,.,9 I 
... 
--......,,. I 
...... . 
............ ..J 






