

Ready for Battle
Equality of the sexes? 
Can the new starting quarterback and the Irish 
5,tudents and The Observer discuss the Irish 
Friday

Guard's break u·ith its all-male history in light 
bounce back from their first Losing season since 
ofsenior Molly Kinder's induction. 
1986? Check out what The Observer has to say. 
SEPTEMBER 1, 
Viewpoint . pages 14-15 
Irish Insider 
2000 

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 9 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Student forum offers few football ticket solutions 
dent Brooke Norton and their "I guarantee that student governors were treated procedure in whichBy JASON McFARLEY chief of staff. Jay Smith. in a to a barrage of negative reac­University ushers issued stick­
Nc-ws Writer there'll be some
Student Union-sponsored forum tions to a system implemented ers for student's ticket applica­
tweaking, but I can't
It wasn't thr, showing they to disruss this year's tir,ket dis­largely through former student tions -proved cumbersome hoped for. but Notre Damn stu­tribulion program. say that it'll be an body president Micah Murphy. and confusing for many stu­dent governmf>nt. rPpresenta­"We wanted to come together entirely new system." "What we have now doesn't dents. At Thursday's forum, tives rcceivr.d an earful to show you that we want to lis­work. This year there were some mentioned that the sys­Thursday from studrnts disillu­ten." Smith said. long lines and a lot of confu­tem may have been a burden
Brian O'Donoghue
sionPd by the current football He said the forum was a sion," junior Brian Clemency for first-year students in partic­
Notre Dame student
tic·kel dbtribution system. means to garner student input said of the Aug. 21 ticket distri• ular. 
body president

I•:ighl Linivrrsity students and that nothing woul.d be bution event. "They're just coming off joined student body prnsidcnt acted upon as of yet. Featuring a picnic at Stepan Freshman O[rientationl week-Brian ()'Donoghue, vice prr.si-Still, lhroughout the hour-long session, Smith and fellow Center, this year's lottery-type 
see TICKETS/page 6 


As the organizations first female, senior Molly Kinder says she intends to be 'as full ofan Irish Guard member as possible' 

By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Associate News Editor 
From the painting of the gold helmets to the concert on the steps to the Irish Guard, football at Notre Dame is steeped in tradition. On Saturday, as the high-stepping Irish Guard leads the band onto the field, a new face among this group will signal an end to the 51-year all-male tradition within the Irish Guard. 
Molly Kinder, a 6-foot-3 senior, said she decid­ed freshman year she wanted to be a part of the Irish Guard. Until Kinder's selection, the Irish Guard had been all-male mainly because of the height requirement. 
"I was at activities night the other evening and saw a friend from one of my freshman year classes," said Kinder. "He came up to congratu-
Senior Molly Kinder practices for her frjsh Guard debut Saturday. She is the only female member in the group's 52-year history. 
. 
photos by 

PETER 


late me on making the Guard and said that he remembered that I had mentioned even fresh­man year that I wanted to be a part of the Irish Guard." 
Kinder first auditioned for the prestigious group of 10 students during the fall semester of her junior year. 
"It was the most challenging thing I had ever done," she said. "I worked out all summer but when the practices came in the fall, I found we were using totally different muscles groups and it was very physically and mentally challenging." 
The fact that she was female also added to her nerves going into the practices. 
"I hadn't gone to any of the meetings in the spring of 1999 about the Irish Guard so when I showed up on the first day of tryouts, the guys 
see KINDER/page 4 

RICHARDSON 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, September 1, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Metnber for life 
It's that time of year again. Today begins a new year of Notre Dame football, complete with traditions, expectations and high hopes for this year's team. /\s in years past, some believe the team is destined to greatness, oth­
ers to failure. And regard­lfiss of whether our team wins or loses tomorrow, we will all have the opportuni­ty to b11 reminded that we are part of something big­ger and more important than ourselves. 
In many ways, each and every home football Saturday is the same. Tomorrow morning alumni and fans will descend on the quads, and students will prepare to sell food and drinks to campus visi­tors. Pans will line the path from thn Basilica to the sta-


Anne Marie Mattingly 
News Editor 
dium. hoping to catch a glimpse of their 
favorite football player as the team walks by, 
and shortly beforn kickoff the band will step 
off from Bond llall to load students, fans and 
alumni into Notre Dame Stadium. The seats 
will fill. we will watch 60 minutes of Notre 
Dame football. and when il is all over we will stand arm in arm and sing the alma mater of 
Our Lady's UniVfirsity. 

But our very prnsence in Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday will represent something much grnalN than our enthusiasm for football. As we gather around the field, we will be rnminded that we are part of a legacy. llow many pnople around the world have dreamed of' standing exactly where we will be? !low many Irish fans will watch the game on TV and wish that, just once, they too could be pre­sent for a game in Notre Dame Stadium? How many have so desperately wanted to become a part of tlrn community that we so often take for granted? 
/\s wo look at the faces of the people around us on Saturday. it will not be dif1icult to see that the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's commu­nity transcends nearly every human boundary. There will be people of all ages, races, nation­alities, political beliefs and cultures, perhaps with nothing in common but their humanity and their membership in this community. What makes Notre Dame and Saint Mary's so unique is that, unlike many other contempo­rary organizations or institutions, this common memb,:rship is enough. With·nothing tu bind us to orw another but our associations with these two institutions, we come together in friendship and solidarity. We do so not only wtwn we unite to support the Notre Dame football team, but as classmates. study groups and membnrs of student organizations. After graduation, we will continue to do so in the workplace, in service organizations and, in short, life. 
We have all been privileged with the oppor­tunity to b~ part of' the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's family. Though we may not always agrne with the positions of either school's administration, the Catholic Church. or one another. we should still hold dear the friend­ships and camaraderie we discover throughout our time as Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents. No mathir how far we may travel or what challenges we may undertake, we will always have a common history in South Bend, Ind. Perhaps we should spend just a few min­utes of' our first football Saturday to remind ourselves how truly precious that is. 
The ,,iems expressed in the Inside Column anr those of the author and not necessarily those ofTltP Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Anne Marie Maccingly  Noreen Gillespie  
Maribd Morey  Graphics  
h 1111  Pressley  Karie Annis  
Sports  Production  
Kaci.: McVoy  Kathleen O'Brien  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Pat Kelly  Angda Campos  

Th, Ob,«vor (USPS ~•J•J 2•4000) is publ"hed Monday 1hrou~h Friday cxLepr during rxam and vac.u1on period~. Thr Observer 1s a member ofrht" A~M,,1.ued Pre~,. All rcprodudiun right., ,He reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE HISTORY 
Dorms adjust to new party guidelines 
Sept. 5, 1979 

Under the new guidelines, each dorm had to set aside one room in the hall for social functions where liquor would be served. Private parties could still be held, but there would be a limit of 20 persons per party, according to the Director of Residences. Consequently, each dorm was preparing to arrange a party room that fall. 
Sorin Hall bans smoking 
Sept. 5, 1990 After a dorm-wide vote with a majority in favor of a smoke-free environment, Sorin Hall prohibited smoking in its residences. "IThe smoke) gets in the curtains and the rugs and stays forever," said Father Steve Newton, then rector of Sorin. "The first rnal test of our policy will be on the first home football weekend whim many par­ents come to Sorin and may want to smoke." 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
U. of Virginia places female RAs in all-male halls 
C!--WlLOTfESVlLLE, Va. 
Many things will be different for first­ye ar guys in the University of Virginia's Kent dorm this year. They have a new woman in their lives: She's their RA. 
"I thought she (Cara) was just one of the (Greeters) who kept using our bathroom constantly on Move-In Day," first-year College student Craig Kemper said of the woman he later learned was his RA. 
This year. three female RAs -sec­ond-year College students Charlotte Hudgins and Cara Coolbaugh and third-year College student Miya Hunter -will be in charge of halls of male residents. 
Life in University residence halls has been changed. And it's all thanks to a statistical glitch. 
"There was a mixup with the num­ber of students" admitted to the University. said Sarah Chewning, fourth-year College student and co­chairwoman of Residence Life. 

According to Chewning, the Admissions Office typically selects a class composed of 60 percent females and 40 percent males. The residence life department selnctnd HAs in the spring, anticipating that the ratio of females to males would remain three Lo two. 
"We made Iresident) staff selections based upon the composition of the typi­cal first-yr.ar class," Chewning said. 
This year, however, the student body composition is 46 percent male and 54 percent female, according to Ida Woottnn of University relations. 
Because the number of' males admit­ted was nearly equal to females, resi­dence life found they had under-antici­pated the number of males who would enroll. 
They had no alternative but to assign three female H.As to male halls. "It was weird for the first half hour, but once I accepted it, everything was alright," first-year Enginnering student Grahame Burke said. 
TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 
Task force aims to deter drinking 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Texas A&M University's Alcohol Abuse Task force is enforcing stiffer penalties for alcohol and substance vio­lations to deter underage drinking and drug and alcohol abuse on campus. Previously, a letter of reprimand was the punishment fur a first minor in possession offense on campus. Now, conduct probation is the first punishment, entailing an official warning stating that one is in viola­tion with A&M. The task force is in collaboration with Alcohol and Drug Education Programs (ADEP). Residence Education, Student Conflict Resolution Services (SCRS) and the Corps of Cadets. "Three things can happen once an underage drinker receives an MIP." said Mike Collins, coordinator for SCRS. "In a hearing, a student can accept responsibility, the hearing officer can find him or her responsible, or the student may be found not responsible. The former two receive sanctioning." Sue Foster, assistant director for Residence Education, said the group's goal is to create a healthier, safer envi­ronrrnmt on campus. 
AUBURN UNIVERSITY 
Baseball player arrested for DUI 
AUBURN. /\la. 

Auburn baseball player Joseph Zanthos was arrested /\ug. 27 for driving under the influence of alcohol after his Jeep Cherokee collided with Southern Union student Jeffrey Crocket's Toyota Supra around 5 a.m. on West Magnolia Ave., killing Crocket. Crocket, 19, was pro­nounced dead at 5:43 a.m. at East /\labama Medical Center. His passenger, 18-year-old John Creel. was treat­ed and released from EAMC. Zanthos. 21, was leaving the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity house when he hit Crocket's moving car and then three other parked cars. Chris Strickland, president of Sig Ep, said he didn't know why Zanthos was leaving the fraternity's parking lot or why he was there. "It really didn't have anything to do with us directly," Strickland said. Zanthos, a junior in zoology from Vestavia Hills, was released on $500 bond for his DUI. Police said no other chargns have been filed yet. Crocket's family can decide to press charges for manslaughter or the Grand Jury could decide to indict Zanthos. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWcarhcr •forecast for daytime condirions and hiel1 temperature~  
H L 69Friday 91~ Saturday 82 68~­86 66Sunday ~ Monday 81 63~ Tuesday ~ 81 64  

The AccuWeather<' forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 1. 
50. ' s:::, °":<>;:, \"'-....(' 

6 •

_;;J ";, aos---f) . 
FRONTS:
.,..........~ 
.......-..r 

0 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONAF~Y 
q_Q_Qq~QtJ~u 
Showers T-storms Ram Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pr_ Clouay Cloudy Via A!JSOCJB/Sd Press GraphJC.SNSf 
@"'"'© D High Low Show,,r ¦ v'JR Assor.11tt•d Prt,U  D Rain  D T-storms  D D Flurries. Snow ----­-- - D Ice  Sunny  Pt Cloudy  Cloud';'  l  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  81 70 81 70 88 71 91 71 101 77  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  86 97 81 82 84  66 76 67 72 72  Portland Sacra men lo SI. Louis Tampa Wash DC  67 77 97 88 82  54 53 76 75 73  

. 

hiday, Septembc-r 1, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
CONSTRUCTION 
ND to dedicate Learning Center 
. Engineering facility offers students 'real-world context' for basic principles 
By NICK SWEEDO 
News Write, 
J'rnyiously Llw pop!!1Jr vtinut• l'ur w11 <1kt'tHI movi<'S. Cushing Auditorium has bnen trasfornwd into a ,ww. state-of-thn art learn­ing renter fur (' ll g i 11 I'(' r j 11 g sL11d1·nts. 
"WP f'n11I 
that ai:ti\ itics 
within  tlw  
Cl'lll!'r  \Viii  
providP  our  

stud<'nls wiLh a real-world i:onwxt !'or the basic pl'incipl(1S thny ar<' i<iarning in their matlH\lllatics, science am! P11gin1•Pring ,·.otll'S('s," said Frank lneropPra, t!w McCloskPy Dean of lingincf\l'ing and a profrssor of merhankal m1ginnering. 
"I think its a great idea." said 


senior engi,ie(\ring student ends. Hobecca Glatz. "It shnulrl bn a While other universities have goud plani fur people to gu if they similar facililins, only Notre Dame ·s arr having trouhle." is nvailable to nil first-yPar stu­
The Engineering Learning dnnts, said Gedde. Center givAs students access to While encompassing all fields or ekctronie cquipnrnnt, cliernical engineering, the Center gives stu­
fume  hoods  drmts thr oppor­ 
and a variety of enginer,r­ "The dropout rate all over  tunity to work with f\nginenrs  
ing modules  the country is high .for  in other fields.  
inel11ding  engineers because ofthe  "Enginenring  
µeudulums and catapults.  difficult curriculum."  has undergone such a t:hange,"  
The  14  sec­ said Paul Gio,  
tions  of the  Natalie Gedde  dirertor of thn  
University's  Engineering Learning  engineering and  
first  yPar  Center .manager  computing facil­ 

e11gi 110,cring course, Introduction to Engineering Syst.Pms, will use the center onA at. a Lime, said Natalie Gedde, the Enginrering Lnarning Centnr man­agrn·. 
Other engineering students who want Lo use the Center for a dass project or who want access to onr, of the 18 personal computers in the Center can come in from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m., Monday through Friday or f'rom 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on week­ity. 
"Cnllahorntivc efforts are a necessity. You don't design by yourself anymore." 
To assist the first-year students in the Center arr 14 penr mentors, who arc upperclassmen in the 1mgineering program. 
"The dropout rate all over the country is high for engineers because of the difficult curricu­lum," said Gedde. "The peer men­tor program introduces the fresh­men to students who have succeed­ed in the program and who can answer any questions that they might have." 
The dedication ceremony, held at 4 p.m. today, will open with a 15­minute presentation detailing the unique history of Cushing 11 7, including its last 70 years as a lec­ture hall for thousands of Notre Dame students. Jncropera will then discuss the goals of the learn­ing center. 
Provost Nathan Hatch and execu­tive vice president Timothy Scully will be present at the ceremony. along with the College of Engineering Advisory Council. The ceremony is open to students, alumni and members of the com­munity. 
page J 

University to help plan, create local COllllllUnity center 
By LYNN OLSZOWY 
News Write, 

Notre Dame anno4nced plans Thursday to to estab­1ish a Community Learning Center in thri former Goodwill building on North Eddy Street. UniVf-irsity Prnsidcnt Edward Malloy marle the official announce­ment to more than 90 people who gathered at the building sitr. 
Thfl Community Learning Center (CLC) is a collabo­rative effort between the University and the northeast community of South 13end. The center will offer educa­tional programs. recreational activities and health care services to hoth the students or Notre Dame and the residents of the northeast sidA. 
As evident by the press conference, the overall mis­sion of the community r,enter is to improve thn rela­tionship between Notre Dame students and the north­east residents. South Bend residents Cheryle ;\she and Heverend Timothy House along with Notre Dame sophornon' Marguerite Clemency and senior John Micek shared the stage with Malloy. 
Rouse said the Center is a great stride in creating a meeting place for these two communities while Micek stresserl the importance for student involvement. 
"This is an amazing opportunity for Notre Dame stu­dents to create an avenue bringing together the com­munity and university," Micek said. 
The CLC will furnish a variety of services and pro­grams for both University students and northeast neighborhood residents. The Center will include a Computer Teaching and Learning Center equipped with 20 computers, educational software and Internet access -available to both students and residents. 
Additionally, a Health Maintenance Center and Neighborhood Clinic operated by St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center will extend health services to the com­munity. Along with informative health programs, the clinic will also give physical examinations, prenatal assessments and medical assistance. 
The projected cost for the Center's completion is more than $500,000 and the annual operating budget is estimated at $300,000. The University has pledged to fund the renovation and the first year of the Center's staffing. 
An advisory committee for the CLC is made up of numerous University administrators as well as local residents and religious, civic and government leaders. Currently, the CLC is applying for grants and perform­ing a search for the Center's program director. 

Chicago Brass Quintet 
~ TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2000 

aa+ News? 
Call LAS, 

... just come to 1st Source. As the area's leading financial institution, we can offer you unparalleled convenience, 
1-5323

competitive products and pricing, and a level of service 
second to none. 
Convenience • With over 40 banking centers and ATMs in the area, 1st Source is everywhere you might be. Visit our full-service office in the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's, complete with ATM, or use our ATM in the Hesburgh Library. 
Internet Banking• With 1st Source Bank's on-line banking service for students, BankOnCampus.com, you can check your balances, transfer money between accounts, and even pay bills. 
Electronic Funds Transfer • Expecting money from home? 1st Source can make getting money from home fast and easy by arranging to have the money transfered to you electronically. 
When it comes to banking, 1st Source has you covered. So save your prayers for a real crisis -like finals! 
University Laundry 
1813 South Bend Ave. ac Campus Shops "Best Laundromat in Town"

~---------------------1 
:50% off Drop·Off Senvce: 
: 24 Tans for $40 : 
: Bring This Coupon : : Expir:es 9/15/00
L------•--------------J 
$$ I need to buy Nebraska vs. Notre Dame fooball tickets. $$ 
Home Phone: Saint Mary's Banking Center• 235-2019 
(562)598-3949 

M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30 
24 Hr Voice Mail: (213) 487-4161 

r---------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 1, 2000 
Kinder 
continued from page J 
didn'l know I was planning to iry out." said Kinder. 
Kind,ir's goal wa.s to make it to tlrn final day of practice and the audition. 
"My goal last year was just to do llw lwsl I could," she said. "I did t>wrything that t>vi•ry guy did. Wlwthnr I madP it or not was not what. was going to make tho try­out succt>s.~l'ul for me. Last ycar was morP ol' a personal goal for JnP." 
I!Pr pm·sisl.P!H'I' and hard work also ,.JiminatPd any rnservations tlw mall's had about hf'r during tlw tryouts. 
"Wht>n ) talkPcl to S0111(' or thP guys al'll'rward. tlrny said tlwy WPJ"P wary at first but lh1\y w1irP l,ikl•n by surprist•," shl' :,;,Lid. "Tlwy told mP they wnrP cool wilh il bPc,u1sP I did t'verything tlwy did." 
Afh•r failing to makl' thn Irish Gtrard last fall. Kindc'r was not dntnrrNL WhilP studying abroad in ChilP thb sumnwr. shn took a diffcn•nt approach l'or training for !lw rigorous Irish (;uard try­outs that would await lwr when slw r!'lt1.!'lwd to Notrl' Dame. 
"I pral'tk1•d marching a lot in llw slrl'Pts of Chi!P and I think tlw 1)PoplP thought I was insaiw." said Kindi•r. "Wlwn I got honw I pra,·!icf'(f marl'hing on tlw foot­ball f'iPld and just wntinuPd to pn•pan· nwntally and physirnlly J'or tlw audition." 
This fall. KindPr WPnt into tlw tryouts knowing what lo Pxp1·c:t. 
Tryouts 11lll'n consist of thn•1• prartil'PS pPr day for up to two hours each. l:,u·h pnLcti1'f' is a mix of rnan-hing with tlw band across l'.lllllpus to diff<•n'nl songs and bPats. IParning a routine that is ,L mix of trotting. marching, turns and spins and l1iarning to stand at att.Pntion and maintain a straight l'an\. Kinder said that aspPct was parlirularly rhal!Png­ing silH'.P othPr Irish Guard mem­b1'rs would try to draw laughs from thP candidates. 
"Thnrn wnrc a few guys auditi­ioning from last year so I felt a lot more comfortable and I had morn confidence," said Kinder. "That mack a big difference." 
When the final audition came on i\ug. 20. Kinder folt more con­ficl1mt than nvcr. 
"J was so unrn•rvous, I couldn't belirivc it," she said. 
For lrnr audition junior year. her f!lltir<! family came from their honw in Buffalo, N.Y., for tho cwnt. This y1\ar, her mnm made tlw !'ight-hour driw for her audi­
tion. 
"My mom was at thc Grotto praying during my audition and il must havl' work1•<I." said Kinder. 
1 IPr roomrnalPs also camn to lwr audition WParing t-shirLo,; that sp1•1(pcJ out lwr last name. 
KindPr IParnPd thn rrnxt morn­ing that slw lmd been Sl'lrn:tml lo lill orw or thP six opPnings on the Irish Cuard from a l'idd of 28 who ,wditionnd. 
"I 1w·Pcl owr Lo tlw band hall 
· on Monday rnornin){ and I was so (\X1:it1•d wlwn I saw my n1rnw on lfll' list but I clidn ·t know what to think SD l said to rnysPII', 'Don:,; this 11H•an I mad1' it?'" slw said. i>l'spitP sonw \.\"ho think tlrn all­mal,· tradition uf' tlw Irish Guard may havP bP1•n broken f'or tlw sak1· of' poliliral correctness. band dirPdor KPnnr:lh Dy1\ who mak,is tlw foial dcr.ision regard­ing who is s1•IPrted for thP Irish (;uard, :,;aid Kinder had all the qualilir:alirms. 
"Molly met 1wery requirement 
-hPight and othcrwisP," said 
Dye. "She had an excellent audi­
tion and her skills WP.re first-rate. 
The only requirement that has 
kP.pt the Irish Guard all-male is 
the !might requirement. We've 
had othn wompn try out in tho 
past but Lhoy haven't had the 
skills or coordination. We had thP. 
opportunity to watch Molly at all 
the practices and lhosp who 
obsnrved her audition vi.ore 
unanimous that hrr p,•rformancP 
was excellent." 
Dye addnd that the assistant band dirnclor:,; and currr.nl cap­tain of' the Irish c;uard give input into the deri:-;ion of who is selr.ct­cd for the Irish Guard. 
Overall. tlw rc::;ponsn Dye has rPcPivPd from alumni, students and community nwmbers has run Llw gamut. 
'Tvc gotten ev1,rything from posiiivr'. to negativ1• rc~sponses, sonrn of which arr. anonymous," hP said. "She is thP first female Lo have made Lhl' Irish (;uard and it might hi' anothPr ·10 tc1 20 years before we sec another fomale with her staturP and skills who could makl' Lhe Irish C11ard." 
Kinder said that slw has heard only positive' commnnts and "lrnsn'L yd h11ard 0111~ negative thing :,;aid to lwr face." 
"ThPrt' has bPr.n an over­whPlmingly positivP respons11 from students and faculty and I'vp rncPiv<'d so many emails from alumni and p1•ople I don't <'Vi'll know sf'nding mu nrnssages of' congratulations." shr. said. 'TvP also !ward from fornwr Irish Cuard nwmbPrs l-if'nding mP \"ongratulation:,;." 
The response from within the ranks of the Irish Guard rPmains unknown. When asked for r.om­men t on Kinder's selection. Guard captain Paul 11aih declined commt>nt. 
Kinder. however, maintains that hr.r gender has not bAAn a distrar.tion. 
"It's definitr.ly been an adjust• ment for r.vcryone but we've bAAn really focused cm lMming our routine for the game Saturday and wp're not focused on lhc media attention or diITi;r­cnces," said Kinder. "It's bePn a very positive expr.ricncc so far. We'rn pretty serious but we havP a lot of fun together. After going through tryouts together. the guys know Lhal they can be themsl'lves around mr. and they know that I can take a joke." 
KindPr said she intends to fol­low all of the LradiUons of' the Irish Guard as rlosP]y as possible. Although sho has not shavnd her hPad as is the tradition of the Irish Guard. she has cut her hair very short. she said. 

"I really want to be as full of an  PETER RICHARDSON!The Observer  
Irish Guard mcmher as possibh>,"  As a member of the Irish Guard, senior Molly Kinder practices  
said Kinder, although shc1 said  with the University's band for several hours each day. "[The  
she couldn't talk about many of  guys] told me they were cool with [my selection] because I did  
Lhc Irish Guard traditions.  everything they did," Kinder said of her fellow Guard members.  

On Saturday. Kinder will have ....----------------------------, 
her family in the crowd watching her as she makes history. 
"I tril'd on the kilt today and I'm so exrited to put on the wholf\ uniform," said Kind!'r. 'Tm nnr­vous aboul Saturday bcr.ausn I don't know what to expect. I do know that there will bn a lot of altl'ntion on m<' so I just want to do my best and I know that tlrn rest of tlw games this season should bP a lot of' fun." 
' 


~CIJS 
Wekome Irish Fans 
E~[~~~i;!~~~ & Family 
1

""--'""'<-........_,......_.'-tt,;t~.~c;:;·1::...1':-t; 2 5(,-1,t,;1,,1, 
Specializing in Italian Cuisine 
l2 l3 Lincolnway West, Mishawaka Hours: Mon.-Sat. 5-IO pm, Sun. Closed 
Pizza and Pasta Specials for Students and Families on Monday-Thursday, 5-7 pm Receive a 10% discount on Pasta with this ad 
Featurmg a full service beverage menu Banquet rooms available 
1 drink = 1/2 oz. pure alcohol which is approximately 10 oz. of beer = 4 oz. wine = 1 oz. 80 proof liquor 
cinema@thesnite 

Fri. & Sat. 9:00 p.m. 
Presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/~cothweb 
A message fhtm PlLLARS ,.;1h Alcohol &. Drug &luution J I I Li Fortun~ Student Center Uni•·~111i1y of Not~ Dame 
(219) 631-7970 
http://www.nd.,.Ju/-aldrur/ 


Friday, September 1, 2000 COMPILED J:iROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

WoRLD News BRIEFS 
Tower needs lengthy repairs: 
Hussia's top construction official predicted Thursday that it will take at least a year to complPtely repair the landmark television lower that was severely damaged in a 26-hour tire earlier this week. The government has not yet decided how much it ,vill spend on renovat­ing the Ostankino tower. 
Elian returns to school: Schoolmates of Elian Gonzalez have been encouraged to treat thn 6-year-uld survivor of a shipwreck and the world's most publicized custody battle "just like anybody else" when he starts the sernnd grade Friday. After recovering from his ordeal in the company of friends and relatives and out of the limelight. Elian is expected to make his public reappP.arance when he -and 2.2 million other Cuban students -return to classes. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Workers vote to end Maine strike: 
Negotiators for Bath Iron Works and its largest union tentatively agreed on new con­tract Thursday morning after all-night talks.A vote to end the strike by 4,800 shipbuilders will be held Sunday. negotiators said. Workers were expected to maintain picket lines until midnight Thursday. Both sides said the proposed agreement addresses the major concerns of union members. who voted to strike Sunday, but some workers seemed enraged as details trickled out and they learned that wages would not be increased over the previous offer. 
F-16 crashes, pilot survives: A mili­tary pilot ditched his F-16 fighter jet in the ocean off the New Jersey coast Thursday after its engine quit, ejecting safely before it crashed. The Air National Guard pilot para­chuted into the ocean, landing about 250 yards from shore. witnesses said. He was quickly picked up by a state police boat. The pilot. whose name wasn't released. suffered minor bruises and a backache. 
Casinos hurt Apaches: The plaque out­side the Apache Gold Casino declares the $40 million hotel. golf and gambling resort has "helped enable the San Carlos Apache Tribe to give a better quality of life to its tribal members." But seven years after the casino opened -and four years after the debut of a glittering new complex -many Apache fami­lies still crowd in small apartments or mobile homes. The reservation's unemployment rate has climbed from 42 percent in 1991 to 58 percrnt in 1997. the latest year available. The number of tribal members receiving welfare has jumped 20 prrcent. 
Market Watch 8/31­

Dow 
]ONES  11215.10  +112.09  
Up: 1,408  Same: 518  Down: 1,410  Composite Volume: 818.440,800  
AMEX:  943.48  +9.26  
Nasdaq:  4206.35  +102.54  
NYSE:  674.53  +4.07  
S&P 500:  1517.68  +15.09  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE DELI.ClJ',,1rUHR (DELLl +').22 d.682~ 4_1.62 CISUl SYSTEMS (CSCOJ d ..09 ,l.017> (18.62 CLEAR CHANNEL (CCU) -6.80 -~.2~ 72.00 MICROSOFT CORJ' (MSFTJ -.27 ~.1 ~) ()9.81 I NTF.L CORr (INTC) +1,88 ,UR 74.R8 
FRANCE 


1_':t>;~A ,>, ~,,,n, ,, .,,, ;,.,: 
... ,._,,,,_ ..,~,!-... "'""r •,-• .;-,..~. 
-· .,._;~:;~;:;.:,:_~ -~'· 
. -~~ 
t( 
,':i 
(, J 

AFP Pholo Fishing boats from Nice, CaJ!nes-sur-Mer and Antibes block the entrance to the harbor of Antibes, France, in conjunction with a nationwide transportation protest against the rising prices of fuel. 
Fishermen vote to end blockade 
Associated Press 

PARIS 
French fishermen on Thursday called an end to a nationwide wave of protests, including an hours-long traffic blockade of the Channel Tunnel, after the Agriculture Ministry promised to offset the costs of rising fuel prices. 
Earlier Thursday, fisher­men had lined up cars to form a picket line at the Channel Tunnel terminal at Coquelles, near the north­ern port city of Calais, leav­ing hundreds of tourist buses and other vehicles unable to board the trains that pass under the English Channel. 
After a deal was signed at the Agriculture Ministry in Paris, fishing unions called for an end to the demons­trations that have left many French ports in gridlock for more than a week. 
Agriculture Minister Jean Glavany, who met with a delegation of fishermen, pledged a series of financial measures to offset rising fuel prices. 
"We're going to take measures to lighten the companies' taxes, which will permit companies to compensate for the ... rising price of fuel," Glavany told France-Info radio after the meeting. 
More good news came from Finance Minister Laurent Fabius, who announced cuts on France's heavy fuel taxes as part of a sweeping tax reform. 
The FNSEA farmers union said Fabius' announcement was only "a first step," and threatened to strike on Friday. The group said it was asking members to send fuel bills to Prime Minister Lionel Jospin. A union of taxi dri­vers also warned they would block traffic Friday. 
In the city of Perigueux in the southwest, truck dri­vers, farmers and taxis added their voices to the fuel protests, stopping traf­fic at the principal entrances to the city. 

Earlier Thursday, fisher­men had occupied ports from the Mediterranean city of Marseille to Bayonne near the Spanish border to the Normandy city of Le Havre. 
The British government demanded action by French authoritjes to prevent a repeat of the blockade of English Channel ports. Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott wrote to French Transport Minister Jean­Claude Gayssot calling for "new rules of engagement." 
Britain "remains deeply concerned at the dispropor­tionate impact on Britain of this kind of industrial action in France," he said. 
Castro considers New York visit 
forence Thursday in Havana. visas to doctors and other profession­
Associated Press 

Ile said he was unworried about the als in what it claims is a U.S. effort to 
HAVANA possibility of violence or an assassina­strip the island of trained personnel. 
President Pidel Castro may travel to tion attempt against Castro in New In Washington, the State New York to attend the U.N. York if he attends the Sept. 6-8 U.N. Department said Thursday that Cuba Millennium Summit. but. if not Cuba meeting. "No threat or risk is capable had agrned to end a two-month sus­will at least srnd a top official to argue of scaring anybody in this country." pension of talks on legal migration of against what it calls the hijacking of Tensions between Cuba and the Cubans to the United States under tho organization "by a small and pow­United States rose this week after the accords signed in 1994 and 1995. erful group of countries." State Department accused the island Cuba suspended the semiannual 
"A decision will br, made in the next nation of preventing some Cubans talks in June amid a furor between the 72 hours" on whether Castro will visit with U.S. visas from emigrating. United States and Cuban exiles in Nrw York for the first time since 1995. Cuba. in turn, accused the United florida over Elian Gonzalez. the 6­when he addressed the 50th anniver­States of failing to provide enough ycar-old whose mother died at sea in sary U.N. session, foreign Minister visas for poorer or less-educated an illegal attempt to get to America Felipe Perez Roque told a news con-Cubans, while selectively giving out with him. 

uates of the Univr.rsity. ran on 
whi>n campaigning for student 
body president and vice presi­
dent in 1999. 
The tnst would be 100 points, 
with top scorers from each dass 
n1rciving priority considcrution 
for stadium seating. Clemency's 
program would abo give auto­
matic points, based on grade 
level. to Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's sophomores, juniors and 
seniors. Clemcnc.y said Nnlre 
Dame students would rnrcive 
an additional 10 more points 
than Saint Mary's students. 
"This is not about gender dis­1Timination. If Saint Mary's stu­dents know their stuff, Lhny'll gc>t good seats," said Clemc>ncy, wlw noted that "The Test" would weed out serious football fans from those who altend games to socialim with frir.nds. 
It would do so. he said. by quizzing students on football trivia. One-third of' the test would he based on Notrn Dame football history, one-third on NC:/\A football history and the remainder on general knowl­edge of the sport. 

There would also be statistical variation among scores to allow friends with similar scores to sit together, said Clemency. But he said that if one friend scores high on the test and another scores low, the top sc.oring friend would have to opt for "worse" seats if he wanted to sit by the other student. 
"If you think it's about soc.ial­izing, then you don't care where you sit," Clemency said. 
Some students, though, expressed doubts about 

Clemency's recommendation. I questioning huw to administer it and how to make it fair for all students. 
()'Donoghue said hr was unsurt' if' the University would movP. forward with a change as ~ drastic as CIPm<mc.y's rncom­mendation. lie said, however. I that he valued lhn student, input. 
"I guarantee that there'll be"' sonw twP.eking, but I can't say, that it'll b" an entirnly new sys-: lt'm," said o·nonoghun, who~ this fall begins his trnn on the Univr.rsity's ticket planninidl committee. "This is about what:! Wf' can do to make the currnnt ! systf'rn work bcttPr _'.JI" to invent i 
,t great new system. ~ 
()'Donoghue vowP-d Thursday~ to keep students informed of his committee work saying he will not serve on it unless the plan­ning for next year's distribution is made a public. proc1ess. 
Italian~cib 
D~g 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Rua A Dua Dua 
Friday, September l , 2000 
TONY FLOYD/The Observer 
University coaches wash cars for $5 each near Eck Stadium Thursday. The event was intend­ed to raise awareness about the activities of charitable organizations, and the project's pro­ceeds will be donated to the United Way. 
f Join the NEW TRADITION 
rattoria 

~ [~33~1000-­
end's Newest Italian Restaurant--------------·---·---···---­
Family Owned Tradition Original Family Recipes 
235 s. Michigan St. 
South Bend, In 4660t 
www.catalinos.com 

dine in/carry-out reservations recommended 
-· ---·-----------­
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S-FINEST ITALIAN DINING 
-----------~ ­

Friday, September 1, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Alumni gifts Students fall victim to summer crime 
to establish scholarship 
Special 10 The Observer 
Th(' Uniw1rsity has n'cnived a gif't to establish an Alumni Association scholarship fund. 
Tlw gil't was givnn by David Johnson of Colorodo Spring-s. Colo., a 1(J71 gradual!' and form()r presi­dent of' th<' Alumni Association: his wii"P, Carolyn: his mother. Mary JanP: and his sislrr. Susan. Johnson said that oth11r former Association presidents and board m1qnbi>rs will b<' urged to con­tributP to thr l'und and that he hopes otlwrs will conlrihutP. 
"Tlw gifts of tlw Johnsons and of oLIH~r f"orml'r Alumni Association of"f1cPrs wonc!Prl'ully <'Xprnss the NotrP D1tm<' l'amily's aflertion. rnspnct and gratitude for sorn11 or our most dcdicttlPd students," said Un ivPrsily l'rnsid()n t Edward Malloy. 
By ALISON HEINZ 

Awav from the insulated Notre name campL;s, students living just one mile off-campus this summflr in Snuth Bend were the victims uf nimc. 
Notrr Damr, studr-nts are learning the hard way how r,rimc prevention techniques can make a difference. Senior Andrew .\1iller said that after his housr near \1olly McGuire's was broken into twice this summer he and his roommates doubled their security efforts. 
"Our landlord ramc over and screwed some windows shut and installed some additional locks. and we keep our alarm un now," said Miller. "A third break-in was attempted but the guys couldn't get through the front door locks." 
But tlrn crimes this summer did not stop at breaking and entering. A group nf Notre Damr srniors living on a nearby strc11t were robbed at gunpoint by masked men. Two weeks later it hap­pe11C1d again, this time at another house on the same hlork. No one was hurt and quick police action led to the apprehen­sion of the suspects on the other side of 
"I don't want to think that it happened only because it was summr>rtime and no one else was really here because that makes it too easy to let your guard down now that e1Jeryone is back. You still have to be careful." 
anonymous robbery victim 
town as they attempted another rob­
bery. 

"What happrned this summer is in my head probably 90 percent of the time," said one of the victims. who asked not to be identified. "J don't want to think that it happenrd only because it was sum­mertime and no one else was really here because that makes it too easy to let your guard down now that everyone is back. You still have to br careful." 
Even though the off-campus resi­
dences are technically out of the juris­
diction of the Notre Dame Security 
Police Department, the NDSP does work 
with the South Bend Police Department 
when it comes to protecting the stu­
dents. 

"Students may want to follow up with us after they contact the SBPD so that we can watch out for lr!'nds," said Chuck llurley, assistant director or NDSP. "In areas where there has been a number or incidents we arc doing what we can to make police presence more strongly felt." 
Hurley also said it is important for students to report every crime and to be aware of what makes thrm f•asy targets, such as the fact that students are pre­dictable and tend to follow th() same schedule everyday. It is easy for anyone watching the house to know when it is empty, he said. 
"There arc certain implications to moving off campus," said Hurley." A stu­dont looking to move off campus should nisearch the neighborhood and hope their landlord will be honest with them. 
"Or, they can also get in touch with the Cr-ime Prevention Bureau of the South Bend Police Department and ask about crime activity for that area. There is a problem and people need to be aware of it, but the last thing I would want to s0e is more division between Notre Dame and the South Bend community." 


JOIN THE NOTRE DAME CIRCLE KCLUB 
"'the world's largest circle Kclub ....4000 hours of service done last semester ,,.Over 20 weekly projects at varying times to fit your schedule "'All transportation is provided!! 
FIRST MEETING: SUNDAY 9/3@ 7PM LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 


page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September I, 2000 
CREDIT 

FIRST 
SUISSE 

BOSTON 
•J·• 
:, ·11. 

YOU'RE EITHER AN AGENT OF CHANGE, 
www.csfb.com 
Something happens when companies fail to keep pace with the changing world of business. They falter. Because entire industries are changing in a matter of months. Or hours. At the same time, there has never been a time of greater opportunity for those who can make the most of change. At Credit Suisse First Boston, we have made it our mission as an investment bank to anticipate what others miss. Fact is, today, if you don't live in the future, you may never get there. CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON. 
EMPOWERING CHANGE:M 
©2000 Credit Suisse First Boston Corp. All rights reserved. 
Fnday, September I, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 9 
Cheney plugs Balkan exit strategy 
• Candidate says he'll work for troop reduction 
Associated Press 
FOHT LAUl>EHD/\LE. Fla. 

Dick Cheney said Thursday that if lw and Geoq{e W. Bush an~ elP,·ted thPy would look at crafting an exit strategy to get 
U.S. troops out of the Balkans. 
European allies could take on "a bigger share ol' the bur­den thPre." the Hepublican vice prnsidential candidate said. "We have global commit­mPnts. they don't." 
ChPney also said President Clinton has no clear plan for rnmoving troops from the Balkans. 
"I haven't seen yet any pro­posal from the administration to gnt out of Kosovo or Bosnia," he said while cam­paigning !'or tlrn GOP Ucket at a southern Florida elcnrnntary school. 
Clinton has been scaling back troops in the Balkans from the nearly 20.000 sent them in 1995. 
About 4.600 U.S. troops remain in Bosnia, out of a total of 22,000 peacekeepers. There are about 6,200 troops in Kosovo. out of a total force ol' 44,000. Administration offi­rials have expressed hope for further reducing the U.S. presence, but have set no dnadlines. 
The troop deployments that Bush and Cheney criticize, nrnanwhile. have grrnerated more than $2 billion in federal contracts for Halliburton. the Dallas-based oil services com­pany Chenev ran from 1995 until two weeks ago. 
llalliburton's Brown & Root Services subsidiary reaped a largP chunk of' businoss in 1995 when troops were sent built up. to Bosnia. The Army paid it $546 million to provide logisti­'Tm not ready to say that cal support for more than yet," Cheney told reporters at 
20.000 U.S. soldiers in Hosnia. Croissant Elementarv School. Croatia and llungary. The where he announce'd a $2.8 company had already earned billion proposal to build new $269 million on the contract. schools and repair crumbling 
Cheney said he had no role ones. in that or any other contracts lie said there first must be a for llalliburton. "complete scrub" of overseas 
"! never approached the commitments and a look at department about any con­future defense planning. tracts. All those contracts "That could conceivably lead were competitively bid," you to the conclusion that you 
Cheney said,  need larger  
adding that he didn't want anyone to criticize him for using his past  "I haven't seen yet any proposalfrom the administration to get out ofKosor,o or Bosnia."  forces, or you may want to change the mix in somi~ fashion."  
assign mRnt  Cheney said.  
as defense secretary to  Dick Cheney Vice Presidential candidate  Cheney, who helped  

get contracts for the com­pany. 
Kym Spell. a spokeswoman for Democratic presidential candidate Al Gore. defendRd the Clinton-Gore administra­tion. saying Bush "is not ready to be commander in chief. He clearly doesn"t understand what is going on in the world." 
Spell said U.S. troops make up less than a quarter of the peacekeeping forces in Kosovo and in Bosnia. She added that there have been no combat casualties and that U.S. allies pay for 90 percent of the effort. 
Cheney delivered a wither­ing attack Wednesday on the Clinton-Gore administration, accusing it of Jetting troops, equipment. weapons and morale erode. 
But asked Thursday what specific additions should be made in defense programs. he couldn't say where or how he thinks the military should be 
craft U.S. strategy in the Persian Gulf War, said it is appropri­ate to send troops on peace­keeping missions -either in a coalition through the U .N Security Council or unilateral­ly -when circumstances require the United States to ··act aggressively and indepen­dently" to protect its interests. 
Although critical of Clinton­era deployments, he pointed to only one -Haiti -as a mistake. President Clinton in 1994 sent 20,000 troops to Haiti to help restore the elect­ed government of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. Earlier this year, the adminis­tration withdrew the last of those troops. which had dwin­dled to 450 by late 1999. 
The Gore campaign's Spell said: "Cheney should check with one of his advisers· because it was Gen. Colin Powell who helped negotiate the deal and bring in American forces." 
For aweekend of great football and Texas-sized fun!! 
NOTRE DAME vs TEXAS A&M 
September 29, 2001 College Station, Texas 
For more inFormation, eheek out our r1ebsite: http://alumni.nd.edu/~nde_hou 
Gore pushes tough patient's bill of rights 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

In person and on the air, Al Gore appealed on Thursday for the support of people who battle wiih insurance compa­nies over 
medical ;;overage. 
We can win this struggle," h e declared. 
"Al low yourself to 


b eI i c v e , " Gore 
Gore told 
a noisy downtown rally. Ile 
and running mate Joseph 
Lieberman spoke to more 
than 3,000 cheering backers, 
pushing for "a meaningful. 
real enforceable patients" 
bill of rights." 
At the same time, the cam­paign began airing new com­mercials ripping into "some bean counter behind a com­puter terminal" who denies needed medical treatment for patients. 
The commercial was filmed during Gore's 400-mile boat trip down the Mississippi River following the Democratic National Convention. 
All week, Gore has been concentrating on health issues including expanding coverage for children and giving senior citizens pre­scription drug coverage. He was joined by Lieberman in the Pacific Northwest to focus on two of the biggest issues, bolstering the Medicare system and strengthening the rights of patients in managed care programs. 
"Let's recognize what's going on here," Gore told the rally. "Are you with me? Are you ready to win this strug­
• gle?" 
Polls suggest that Gore has picked a good issue. Many consumers are unhappy with restrictions they face in man­aged care. 
One measure now stalled in Congress would give patients a right to appeal insurance company decisions and would allow them to sue the companies if they believe they have been damaged by coverage decisions. 
Gore said he's making the issue central to his campaign and will have a mandate to act if he wins election. 
"We can have it if you will stay with us and win this battle," Gore said. 
Republican George W. Bush. too, says that he sup­ports strengthening the rights of patients, but Gore"s campaign r,ontcnds the mea­sure Bush backs is full of holes. 
Steven Epstein, a lawyer who represents managed care interests, said politi­cians are trying to magnify differences that are relatively small. 
"It's a non-issue," he said. "It's much ado about noth­ing." 
While in Seattle, Gore and Lieberman collected the 
endorsement  of  the  
American  Nurses  
Association.  

Gore has dwelt at length on the often arcane details of his health policy proposals and has sought a contrast with Bush. whom he accuses of offering only vague notions of what he would do if elected. 
In Seattle. the vice presi­dent also was seeking to light a fire under backers in a state important to his hopes of winning the election. doff­ing his coat and offering a fiery pep talk. 
"I want to ask you to open your hearts and allow your­seIf to really, sincerely 
,-------------. believe without reservation that we can do the right
. eColl neF00toaII.CQffi thing in America," said Gore . 
e 

~ "Push past any fear of disap­pointment or disillusionment.
The Marketplace ~fj~~.: the appeal of cyni-
JRJE JD) 
~ 

AWRTMJE 
.. '"'. "" 
dent.Leases Available . er 
Mo 
.,., :,,,,_-,,, 

··Joe .. a,·· ·.·.',.· . -2nd Seme~~~r, Availability 
riaged6Yi a.gement··corp. 234-9923 
Friday, Sepremher I, 2000

page 10 The Observer . NEWS 
Study: drug IDay help asth01a treattnent 
1· l.OHE!\CF. Ilaly 

_.\ study -;11gg,..;ts Lhat an PXJ)('riuw11tal drug could halvt• t.lw 1111111lmr or asthma attacks sutforNI bv pr•opk whosl' con­dition isn ;t wnll r.onll'ollNI ­with 1·111-rl'nl lrcatnwnl about 15 pcrcPnl of' all asthma patients, a nisParclwr said Thursdav. 
Tlw li~·~a major study of' the i11jN·LahlP drug. 1wcsl'11L1\d Tliursda\ at the• World CongrPss ~Ill l.ung IIPallh. also found that it allownl half of patitHllS to slop using swroid inhalPrs and Ilw n•st to rnducP tlwir dt•pt•lldf'IH"I' on tlwm, said Dr. Slcqilwn l111lgatl', who IPd tilt' S!ll(IV. 
SLProi;ls lrnv1• bPPn linked to da11g1•rous sicli· t•ffrds, such as oslPoporosis and sluntnd growth in t·hildn•n. Tlw nwcl­il'a1io11. \oluir. arts 1•arli1•r in (iw 1·as1·ad1· ol' r1·,H·lions that li•ud to an asthma attat·k than 11tlwr trPalmPnls, said llolgatl'. an nslhllla r1•sP11rC'lwi-with tlw l\fodical H1'sParrh C:1iu1wil in Lo11clo11 1111d a prof'pssor at 1·.n~lalHl's So11thampto11 L'ni\'l'l'Sily. 
"This disrnv1·rv is l'l't1ilv tlw first major s\1•i1 l'nrv,·a,:d in tlw lrPat1111•nt of' asthma that 
Lunch 
Mon-Fri 
11am -2pm 
Dinner 
Mon-Thu, 
Sun 
Spm-9pni 
Fri-Sat 
Spm-9:30pm 
211 
L 

. 
A

TH A I RESTAURANT 
s 
A 

"The first Thai restaurant in town. We 
L invite you to try world class 
L E

cuisine, Thai cuisine, the deiicate art that dcsccnd5 trom primogenitor. Thai cuisine is <.ksigned to excite vour five senses; sweet, sour, salty 5picy, an<.i 
[nu-i~
Oi',tllfd ! . " 
211 '\/. Main St. 
South l.lcnc1, IN

Now Hiring, Good Pay 
46601 


Future Lawyer? Invitation to Seniors 

All seniors planning to apply for law 
school this year are invited to an informational meeting on the application process. 
Tuesday, September 5 
131 DeBartolo 
6 p.m. 
Avo Preacher A.,slstont Ue.Yn of Arts and l...~tlers and l're-1,aw Advisor 

A discussion of all uspects of the uppliculion process: 
• 
timetable 

• 
choosing schools 

• 
how the LSDAS works 


• 
what is included in your application 

• 
preliminary information about personal statements 


• 1111d more................................................ . 


Greek Church fights ID card changes 
lcad1\r of' Urn church, said this tlw govnrn mnnt, arguing iI As<ociared Press w<'Ck during a pilgrimag<' to abolislwcl tlw rnligion nntry Jnrusalnm. In .I u1w, lw Ind bncausP il ran ,·ountl'r lo ATIIENS. (;rnet'.P huge rallit's against t.lw ID ( ;n,pc•p 's modPrn iza! ion l'llorls 
CrPorP's pownrfu I Orthodox changes in i\tlwns and 1111' and Europt'illl outlook. 
Christian Church is taking i.ts nnrtl11irn port ol' T!wssaloniki. lluman rights groups and tlw ligh! against. thn Socialist gov­VVhiln most Crnnks vaca­rmrntry"s rPligious minorilil's. crnmcnl back lo t!rn streets in tlo,wd in August. churrh 11rint­inl'!uding .f Pws. Muslims and 
a. balllt• i.~s l'iPry ,leadnr say~ ing prl'sses work0<I ovnrtinrn Homan Catholics, also W<'l­
pits thn sons of darkness churning out millions of' ballols com nd th 11 d nc isi on. Tlrny against "Urn sons or light." 
that will bo carri1!d door-lo­claimnd tlrn old ID cards 
Tho church hopes it can door as part of' tlrnir campaign. allowPd n•ligious discrimina­force th<' govornmPnt to Christodoulos planrwd to for­tion. revoke a docisiou eliminating mally open the signaturn drive Tlw govcrnmnnt fnars tlw 
tlrn niligion entry from state Friday, the 1'11urd1's sig­identity cards. It would like to first day of nalurn cam­collnct nHarly 5 million signa­the r1cc!esias­"We will continue our paign roulcl 
tur<~s -about hall' the total tic new year. struggle for Greece to denply population -to force a refcr­It will end on cl i V i d fl
remain a Christian
nndmn on th~ issue. March 25, (; r P n 1· n , But Urn showdown resonates the day state... " \,\'hort• morl' !'ar beyond just ID cards. It Grccl'c ccle-than 1J7 p<'r­reprPsenls an important cross­b ratns its t·n n L ol' 1h11
Archibishop Christodoulos 
roads for Grcoce: whntlwr Uw early 19th nativn-hor11
leader of the Greek church
nation can adopt Furo1rnan century war populationUnion norms or rnmain under of' inclnpnn-is bapliHd the influnnc11 or clergymnn d11ucc from into Ill!' who' am highly suspicious of" Ottoman Turkish rnlc. Orthodox Chur('h hut 
the EU and the innucncn of' tlw By that limn. hownv1•r, llrn opinion polls show a 111•ar l'\'l'll W1•st.. 1rnw ms should lw in l'ircula­split on till' Ill isslll'. "'Wt\ will rnntintH' our strug­
tion. The gov,•rnmcnl said it llut manv Orthodox rhurrh glP l'or c;r1wct1 lo rPmain a will lwgin issuing Lill' 1ww IParll'rs ar;, wary ol' lhl' gov­Christian stat!'. as WP krww it 
cards in Octobnr. t•r11111!'11t ·s driv1• lo bring and want to live it," Prnminr Costas Simil.is has (;rl'l't:l' into ll11• 111,ii11slr<'a111 of 
Fall Break Seminars 
October 15-20, 2000 Experiential/ Service Learning 
wp'w had in tlw last 20 wars."' lw said. ThosP taking tliP drug had hall' tlw numlmr ol' asthma altarks as subjects wlw did not l'IW!'iVI' it. 
Thnir lungs l'unctionod !)('tler and they wurn lnss ol'te11 admit­tt>d lo the hospital with asthma attacks. Some of the patients start1•d improving two wonks into the 18-rnonth studv, and no snrious side effocts" wr.rc rnported. ar:cording to the resnarchers. 
T lw r I'S Lil l S O f t Im Stu dy wert' pres<•ntl'd at a s1\ssion sponsored by one of the drug's rnak11rs, Novartis AG of Switzt'rland. 
"It's an tixc,dlnnt rnsult." said Dr l\1itchell Fri,•drnan. head of' the lung center at Tulan,\ Univ,~rsity in New Orleans. who was not con­rwct.-d with t!w n•snan:h. "It nrnv transfonn asthma tniat­m ,:n t . c I\ r tain I y in a 11 n r gic asthma, but tlwre an• a whole lot of' things that inl'ILtPll<'<' iul'lammation in asthma. Wlwtlwr this will bp tlw major Olli' rl\llHlins to bP S(l('ll '" 
Xolair is thP firsl in a 1rnw class or drugs that targ~t a rlll'mical in llw blood. calh,d lgl:, that is involwd narly in tlw string of t'V<'nts that !encl Lo tlw dnvt'lopnwnt of asU1ma. 
Hours7 

Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-> Work and learn at one of 15 sites in the Appalachian region 
-> An ND tradition of service-learning 
CHILDREN & POVERTY SEMINAR 
-> Examine key children's concerns -> Focus on direct service and policy initiatives -> Site: New York City 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR 
-> Explore the cultural richness of Chicago -> Examine issues of diversity and related concerns -> Co-sponsored with Multicultural Stu~ent Programs and Services 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: International Humanitarian Issues 
-> Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -> Service and political awareness opportunities 
All seminars offer one academic credit 
Applications Available Now at the CSC Applications Due: Thursday, September 7, 2000 







hiday, September 1 , 2000 The Obserz;er .NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Clinton vetoes 'death tax' repeal 
Associated Press 
WAS! IINGTON 

f'rt'sidrnt Clinton vetond a bill Thursday Lhat would hav11 grad­ll a II y r <'pea I" d in h1\ r i la n c,~ taxns. saying it would havn bPn­ditPd tlw Wf'Hlthil'St 
t\mciricans \V Ii i I (' thrratrning thr nation's finanri<LI wPll-b1·ing. H1!public,rn llousP lf'ad­1·rs vownd a prompt veto overridP altnmpl, hoping to h.1:1•µ tlw :-;o-call1:d "dnath Lax" issuri aliw in th<~ fall campaign. 
Clinton. during a cernmony in llw Whit1· flous,~ Last Boom, al'.knowlcdg1•d t.hr nstat<' tax !'all hit sonw l'armnrs and small businPssPs hard. but IH• said many f)p11101Ta!s favorPd tax law rha11g1•s to 1!x1•mpl thtim without handing th<' rirhPst :i,000 1·a111ilii·s an av1:i·ag1• tax r·ut 01'$7 million npiPcP. 


"Our party is not against rra­sonable nstate tax relief. But this bill is wrong. It .is wrong on grounds of fairness. It is wrong on grounds of fiscal rnsponsibil­ity,"' tlw prr.sident said. 
Thi' WhilP llouse said thr. $105 billion cost during the 10­year phaseout would explode to $7 50 billion in the decade aft<~r full repeal. rapidly consuming budget surplus dollars needed to shorn up Social Security and M rdica.rc. pay down the nation­al debt and incrr.ase spending on education. 
The bill. lih thc marriage penalty tax r.ut Clinton vetoed a fr.w w1ieks ago, was part of last year's Vl'tocd $792 billion tax cut that congressional Hcpublicans aro now trying to pass bit by bit. 
The president said th1,se smaller, more popular bills could "snowball"' into the samr. hugr. tax rut, threatening a rnturn to deficits and higher intNnst ratris f'or consumnrs. 
"Unlrss sorneonf' stops it. the snowball will turn into an avalanch1• and you'll have tlir. 

Sophomores & Juniors! 
$CHOLAR$HIP$ AVAILABLE NOW! 
Non-competitive Scholarships -$17,480 annually, are available for select majors for sophomores and for ALL juniors! 
AFROTC -Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
samr impart you had beforr ..," the president said. "This bill suffered the inevitable fate of a snowball in August." 
Only abou( 2 percent or estates in a given year pay the tax that reaches 5'.i percent, but sponsors of the repeal won broad support on Capitol Jfill by arguing that it inhibits business expansion, threatPns breakups of farms and forces millions of taxpayers to pay lawyers, ar.r.ountants and insurance r.ompanies so they can avoid the tax. 
"Working men and women across the country recognize that it is simply wrong that after paying taxes your \vhole life, the government ran collect up to 55 percent of these same assets when the head or the family dies," said Rep. Jennifer Dunn, H-Wash. "This is a fair­ness issue. 
Thr. rstate tax veto assures the issue will be part of dozens of Ilouse and Senatr. campaigns and the prPsidenlial race brtwecn DP.mocrat Al Gore and Hepublican Genrgc W. Bush. who told reporters Thursdav that Clinton·s argument abou't the wealthy amounted to "class warfare." 
"I would have signed the bill," 
said Bush. who has proposed 
repeal as part of his 10-year. 
$1.3 trillion tax r,ut proposal. 
In the> rrouse. 65 Democrats joined all Republicans in pass­ing the bill this summer, just over lhP-two-thirds threshold necessary to overridr the vr.to. House GOP leaders trntativelv plan next Thursday to put those Democrats on the spot -par­tirularlv those in difficult re­election· fights -and some say 1ti,,v·11 votP a~ainsl Clinton. 
·· rlw prPsidPnl is wrong. and 
lo his Vl'lo I say no,., said H<'p. 
HonniP Shows. D-Miss. 
Judge halts hearing of suspected terrorist 
Associated Press 
BRADENTON. fla. 

A judge has granted a motion to halt bond proceed­in gs in the r.ase of a Palestinian immigrant being held as a 
s u s pc "tc d Trial terrorist. 
Mazen Al-Summary Najjar has . AI-Najoir been jailedfor three arrestedMay 
years with-1997 out charges . Spent three 
on the basis of secret years in prison e vi de 11 c e · without charges 
His bond 
h e a r i n g . Controversy Th u rs d a y involves secret was halted evidence so a federal 
can rule on 
thr.·handling of that rwidenr.e. 
The former University of South Florida Arabic instruc­tor is se1,king to b<' rPleased while he appeals a deporta­tion order. The Immigration and Naturalization Servir,e arrested him in May 1997 after the order was issued. 
At issue is whether immi­gration Judge R. Kevin Mcllugh should review the secret evidence before giving Al-Najjar's attorney, David Cole. a chance to viAw a sum­mary of it. 
Cole plans to ask U.S. District Judge Joan Lenard to order Mcllugh to give him a copy of the summary before the evidence is presented. 
"This is inf'ormation being 
presented behind closed 
doors," Colp, told McJlugh. "Jt 
should not be considered 
Men's Tennis Tryouts 
Monday Sept. 14th 4:00PM Outdoor Tennis Courts In event of rain, report to Eck Tennis Pavillion Questions, call 1,6929 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAi"IE 
INTER.~ATIONAL STL1>Y PROGR>.MS 201 Security Buildln1 Notre Dame. IN 4655<>-0391 
T: (Z19} 6.11-5882 
Fu: (219') 631-S711 


JERUSALEM INFORMATION MEETING 
With Fr. David Burrell, Julliet .Mayinja, Assistant Director International Study Programs 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 5, 2000 
4:45 PM. -5:45 P.M. 215 DEBARTOLO 
ALL ARE WELCO.ME! 
unless Urn evidence is neccs­sary and appropriate." 
Mcllugh scheduled a Sept. 18 conference call with the attorneys. 
None of the secret evidence against Al-Najjar has been introduced. The INS showed classified material to Mr.Hugh in May 1997, prompting him to order Al-Na.Uar detained as a national security threat. 
Lenard ruled in May that Al-Najjar's civil rights had been violatPd and orderr.d the bond hearing. 
"It's just another week after another week," AI-Naljar said Thursday. "I will r.omplete reading another book, maybe." 
McHugh's latest decision came one day after a federal agent acknowledged the gov­ernment lacks anv direct evi­dence that Al-Najjar had raised money for a terror group or had helped organizn any violence. 
On Wednesday, INS attor­ney Daniel Yara played a 13­min ute videotape of various gatherings organizf'd by the lslamir Committee for Palestine as evidence Al­Najjar had r.onsorted with known tPrrorists. 
Al-Najjar was an offker in the committee and helpPd organize the r,onferences, some of which were attPndcd by leaders of the terrorist group Islamic Jihad. 
The tape was compiled from nearly 500 hours of vid,rn seized in 1995, but INS agent William West was unable to offPr any example of AI-Na.Uar soliciting money for the lslamir, Jihad. 
$$ I need to buy Nebraska vs. Notre Dame fooball tickets.$$ 
Home Phone: 
(562)598-3949 24 Hr Voice Mail: (213) 487-4161 
page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September I, 2000 
----~---=-=·~·~-========================================================-========================-=--=:..:.::..:..:::____:___:_:= 

Welcome back. Graduation may be right around the corner, but it shouldn t mark the end of your education. PricewaterhouseCoopers gives you major options when it comes to your career. Like ongoing learning. The challenge of new and exciting projects. ·And the promise of change. All in an environment that fosters professional growth and development. And, if you decide you d like to explore other areas within the organization, we II support you. Any way you look at it, PricewaterhouseCoopers is the place to be. 
www.pwcglobal.com/ ocp 

Join us. Together we can change the world.sM 
;J 20/XI l'ricew,11erhou,eC"''i"''~ LL/'. t'ncew,1IE!rhou,;eC:0t>/>el'i rf'/Pr. lo t/1P lf..'i. firm of l'ricP.w.1/PrhnmeCor,p,;r< LL/' and other mpm/lPr> r,{ t/,p worldv"irle l'rice~m1erhouse<:0011PrI ory,111izatinn. 
/'ri,::rew.,1erhou.<eCoope.r; i.1 proud lo l>e a11 Afllrm,1live Actinn ;mr/ l:'qu,,/ Oppor1unity Hnployer. 
Friday, September 1, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
EL SALVADOR 
Convicted nun-killer loses release appeal 
Asso~iarcd l'r..-s, 
Si\N SAI.VAl>Oll 

Oiw of' two ftirnwr soldinrs still impriso1wd !'or tlw 1980 slaying o[' f"our U.S. rP.ligfous work0rs has lost an appnal for rnlnaso. thP SuprPnw Cotwt announc!id Thursdav. 
MagistratP l!duardo Tnnorio said tlw rourt n•jnctnd th(\ p()ti­Lio n or Fran('isco Ol'lando ContrPras bc'causP it b!,JilwPd lw had not br\('11 rd1abiliiatcd. 
. \ fiirnwr nwmb(1r of' thn coun­try's National Cuard. Contrnrns was onP (11' livn nwn snntnnc!~d to :rn yrnirs in prison in 1CJ84 !'or lhP slayings o!' nuns Jta Ford. Ma1ira ClarkP and Dorothy Kazr'l. and luvworkt'r JC'an Donovan during th,~ country's civil war. 
Tlw womPn had bcc\n dc,tai1wd al a highway check­
poinL in l>ncPmbrir 1980 whiln !waded to the capital from thP rwarby international airport. Thdr hullct-riddl!)d bodir>s werr. found a day later. Thr.y appar­ently had bep,n raped. 
Three of the men were frned in 1998 f'or good behavior undm· a law that mducr.d somr. sen­tPncr.s to !\ilSP. prison ovr.r­rrowding. 
Contreras and Carlos Joaquin Contrnras Palacios werr. kept in prison lwr.ausf' tJiny had partic­ipated in a prison uprising. 
lluman rights organizati!lnS have long pressed the govcrn­mnnt to act against higher-rank­ing military figurns they say were responsible. Families of the virtims said they belirwe the vvomcn were largr.lcd because oflkials suspected tlmy sympa­thized with leftist guerrillas dur­ing thi• war. 

Italian/Sicilian ~~ Dining .
(1 ' 


Fresh prepared ~ers, ;or.,____,-\rsouth Bend, IN 46601 Pilla, Beverages l 219-233-1000 
SOMALIA 
New president calls for peace 
Associated Pres~ 
MO<;ADISHU 

Enjoying his lirst full day in Somalia as the troubled country's hf)ad of' state. President Abdiqasim Salad Hassan warned Thursdav that without the will of tho people Lhere can be no effec­tivf) government. 
llassan, who .vas inaugu­rated as the nation ·s first president in almost a derado Sunday in neighboring Djibouti, said hf) wanted rnc­oncilialion with the armed faction lenders and wnuld bring stability to Somalia. 
"Througl1 peaceful means and rec:onciliation. Wf) can maintain our unity and achieve prosperity." he told a jubilant audience of busi­nessnrnn. adding that his government would work "under the principles oJ' Somali tradition.'' 
llassan had been in the small Djiboutian town of Arta where he was elected and where Somalia's nw,v assem­bly rnrrcntly sits. 
Neither the assembly nor Lhe president were expected to return to Somalia ­viewed as their staunchest test -until a prime minister and Cabinet had been appointnd. The appointments have yet to take place. 
But in a highly unexpected move Wednesday. the 58­year-old tlew into the I-lorn of Africa nation. which has endured nine years of vio­lence and chaos, to be greet­
r.d by tens of thousands of 
Rcstatic:. flag-waving Somalis. Hassan's decision to go to Mogadishu was seen as a bold move to dP.monstratfi to his assembly's opponents, and a generally skeptical international community. that he and his legislators havr. the support of the Somali people, observers say. 
"It's very significant that h!-l returned and proved the pundits wrong," Babafomi Badejo, a senior adviser from th~) U.N.·s political office for Somalia, told The Associated Press in a telephone inter­view from Djibouti. 
"Sev1:iral of the faction leaders made statements with afTecl that any of the people who went to Arta would not be allowed to enter any airport in designed along Somalia's clan structure -which is expected to lead tlw countrv through a LhreP.-y<iar trans(­tional period. 
And !'or Somalis. who have been glued to their tP)1wision scrcPns throughout, it has brought an optimism unmatc:hcd for years. 
Hassan's inauguration was attended by four African leadrrs and repn~scnlatives of regional bodies. lie also received a message ol' sup­port from U.N. Secretary­General Kofi Annan. 
The c:ountry dP.scendP.d into chaos and has had no central government since opposition leaders joined forces to oust dictator Mohamed 
Somalia. It Siad Barre
'Through peaceful means
also demon­in 1991.
and reconciliation, we
strates to Factional the interna­can maintain our unity leaders tional com­then fought
and achieve prosperity. " 
m unity with each that the other, Lurn­A r t a Abdiqasim Salad Hassan in g the process has Somalian president nation of 7 
support w i t h i n Somalia." 
Throughout a peace process which began in Arta on May 2, there has been opposition among a number of faction leaders and skepti­cism from the international community. 
Brainchild of Djibouti President Ismael Omar Guelleh. the Arta conferenc:e was the 13th attempt to find a peaceful solution to Somalia's problems. 
So far it has led to the elec­tion of Hassan and a 245­member parliament 
million into 

battling fiefdoms ruled by heavily armed militias. 
Among those opposed to the peace process arc the leaders of the breakaway regions of Somaliland and Puntland, self-declarnd President Mohamed Ibrahim Egal and Col. Abdullahi Yussuf, respectively. 
The pair have established relative stability and their own administrations in the northern regions and despite the apparent success of the initiative they remain indif­ferent. 



Buy /Sell/Trade 
Nebraska Wanted 
Preferred Tickets 
234-5650 
All currentjuniors are invited to attend an in­formational meeting on the 
TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP 
Tuesday, September 5 217 DeBartolo 4p.m. 
Come and find out what its all about!! 

Joi:n. us for dinner and a discussion on 
Wednesday, September 6 
at the CSC 
at5pm 

Everyone is welcome!! Please RSVP at 631-6841 by Monday, Sept. 4 Sponsored by Multicultural Student Programs and Services 
The TrumanScholarship is amerit-based $30,000 scholarship awarded to students who plan to pursue careers in government or elsewhere in public service and wish to attend graduate or professional school to help prepare for their careers. Students who are interested but can­not attend should contact Ava Preacher by e-mail at Preacher.J@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 14 BSERVER Friday, September I, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
11.0. lln, q, Noire lhme. IN 465% 024 Somh Dinmg Hall. Norrc D,mi,, IN q(,~'i(, 
ErnmR IN CHIEF Mike Con,rnlly 

M,\NACING EDITOR Bl'SINESS MANAGER Norrcr1 (;,llcspic J'im lane 
AsST. M,\NA,;INL EDITOR OrEllAl'IONS MANAGER Christine Kraly Bri,m K,•sslcr 
NF.WS EDITOR: Anne M.1ric M,mingly V1fWl'0INT EDlfOR: I.ii.a H:tughey SroRTS EDITOR: Kerry Smirh Scr-.NE EnlTOR: Am.rnda Greco SMNT M1'RY's EDITOR: Molly McVoy i'llOTO El>ITOR: Eliz.,bcth Lang 
AllVIIHISING MANACER: P.,t l't•(ers An DFSIGN MANAGFR: Chris AviLt sv~TtMS AllMINISTIIAT0R: Mike G,mvilk Wi'll Al)MINISTRATl>R: Adam Turner C0NTR0U.FR: Hoh \Xiomls GRAl'IIIC.S EnlTOR: Jos..-Cudlar 
CONTACT Us OH'ICE MANI\Gf.R/GENERAL INrn ........6jJ-747l fAX........................................................631-6927 AllVfRTISING................................. ....(,3 l-(i')U0/8840 
nbS<·1ver@'d;1rv:in.cc.nd.ed11 Em ro11 IN C111n......... ................6.> 1-4542 M,\NAGING [lllTOR/AsST. ML ...............631-4541 BUSINESS 0ff!CE.... ................. (,31-5313 
Ntws... ...........c,., l-'i.,23 
ohscrver.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT ................................................6.'l 1-';J0j nbscrwr.vicwpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS...... ................. 631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu SCENF........ ...................................... 6.'ll-4540 obserwr.scc11e. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S ...... .....................................631-4324 observcr.smc. l@r1<i.edu PHOTO. ......................<1.1 l ·8767 SVHEMSIWEII Al>MINISTRATORS.................6.> !-ll8.,9 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visn our W,·b >1te :11 lm;rllobservrr.11d edu for daily upd,ues nf campus new,, spom, features and opinion columns, a., well as cartoons, review., and breaking news from the Assuciam! Press. 
SUR!: TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/music for 

1nirllltl' frxt·(,lS[S 
weekly s1udrnc reviews 
advertise l,,r policies 
online fealllres for spe­.111d r.m·s of print .,ds 
ci,11 c11np11s coverage 

an-hives IO sc.m:h for 
about The Observer .uricb puhfolu·J J/ier 
IO mct·r rhc t·,liwrs JnJ August I')'I') 
staff 

POLICIES 
·1 ·1w ( lbservt'r is ch,· mdcpcndcm, daily newsp.1per publi,llt'll in pnnt and on line by the students of the Urnvrr.,ity of '.'Jom· Dame du l.1c ,md Saim J\.faty's College. FJitorial content. i11cludir1g advertisemcnis. is flOt g"vrml'd by policies of rhe a,lm1r1istra1ion ofeither in,timtinn. The Ol»ctver rt"Serves the right 10 rdttst· .1dveni.i.t'Jllt'ncs b,1sc<l on cmuenL 
lite new, is rcpuned J> acrnr.udy an<l objecuvdy as po~\1blt·. Um1g11,·d ,dirori.ils rt11resenr the opiflion ot the m,1jori1y of chc Ediror in Chief'. Managing Editor. A.s.,i,unr MJnaµing Editor and dcparcmrnc editors. C:ornmemarics, l,·ners an<l columns prcsen1 the view, of the aud1nrs and 1101 necessarily 1hose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoi111 .Sf>,lCe is .1vailable to ;ill rc;1ders. The free expre.ssi1m o(all opi11ions through letters is encomagcd. l.,·m·rs to the Editor mmr be signnl md must rnclude wn1,tc1 infom1a1ion. 
Q11rrtir111., r~~,r,-rli11g Obsm•rr p11/irirs slmu/,1 be dim·t­e,/ ro l:diwr 111 Ouc/'Mil·e (,'ouuoUv. 
Gender is not a factor in tradition 
In light of Molly Kinder's acceptance sentativ(1s of' tho University. While as the lirst f"malo member of the Irish there has never boi>n a female membnr Guard, the traditions ol' lhe Irish.Gua.rd of lhc Irish Guard, the Irish Guard was and this University have come into not formed to represent malnhood. The dnbato. Somo hnvP questioned if Irish Guard limction as a visible sym-Kinder can fulfill bol of the UnivorsiLy. the rtuties of a For J92 years, the
OtJhc
Guard member. United Slates Supreme
userver 
No one should Court had a history of doubt, however, if being an all-male women in general body. With llrn can fulfill those appointment or Sandra
Editorial 
duties. Day O'Connor in 1981, 
Although a that history changed. l'fmrnJn nrnmber or Th!\ tradition of' the the Guard changes its all-male history, Court, however. remained the same. it docs not have to change thn tradition lhf\ Court still rcpres,mts the _justic1\ of the Irish Guard as honorable rcpro-and integrity of the United States, regardlnss of tlrn .Justictis' gendnr. 
Wlrnther in Washington D.C. or under th11 Golden Dome, llw principlr, should remain the samr.. As long as tlrn spirit of a tradition is rnaintairwd, it should not matter whether a main or f'Prnalc upholds that tradition. 
The Irish Guard promolns pride and respect; both of those qualities tran­scend g"ndcr lines. Tradition is only broken when a member of' tlw Guard drws not honorably rnprnsnnt the University. As long as tlw standards of tho Irish Guard are nut changncl, tlwn th!' g1rnder of' a (;uard nwmlwr should not matter. 
Living in post-graduation limbo 
I am oflicially at a confusing age. 
Awkward does not quite do justiw to the peculiar situation in which we Domers who began our studies in the first half of' the 1990s lind ourselves. 
With ages ranging l'rom 23 to 28, we are not yet old rmough to go bac:k to South Bend and feel any great amount of nostalgia for the placE1; or even to impress people who currrmtly attrnd our a.Ima mater with sto­ries of how things have changed. We are not long depart­ed and thus it would be overly dramatic for us to wax poetic about our days in "the Bend." 
Also, we cannot vet have moments as occurred in 1993 when I told my assem­bled family that I would be living in Kennan Hall, only to hear both my uncle {ND '59) and fallrnr (ND '66) rnfor to that 1950s bomb shelt1ir of a residence hall m; "one of the ncw dorms." 
I do get a cnrtain satisfaction out of telling students that my freshman year roommatn planned to move from Keenan llall to Cavanaugh llall for his sopho­more year and tlrnn watch as visions of 11xpensive SW(\dish operations involving very private areas race through their thoughts. But otherwise, Ijust don't lit the standard image ol' "alumnus." 
llowevnr, ,L'i I preparn to trek up to the first football game of the century, I real­ize that I can't really go up and lit in seamlessly. Even ii' I had my ID still, I don't look anything like the 22-year-old pictured on it. The headshot near the b,:ginning of this column is ac:tually of a 21-year-old assistant news editor, not of a slightly balding, 25-year-old writer and book editor. I Noto: I will update this for latr.r columns, it is my fault that they have had to run that photo. I haven't 

posed in a while.) 

The last game that I went up for, crowds at Coaches, the 'Bac:ker and Fat Shirley's appeared to be made up of peo­ple who look more and more likr, my 16­year-old baby sistnr. Sitting in my seats in the southeast corner of tlrn stadium seemed miles away from the undu­lating field or shirt-color that is the student section. 
I have visitnd some off-cam­pus parties since graduation and bePn asked what class­es I'm in only to lw forced into the somewhat labori­ous explanation about "visiting friends." Add to that the fact that nearly all of Uui people who I knew have graduated in the ensuing two years. and I foel as though l do not really belong with the studenl,;;. 
Caught in Urn limbo that exists in bning too old to party with tlw undergraduates and too young to claim any sort of historical alumni status, we can turn to the only thing that really binds all of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni(ac) together: football. 
At what other school am you able to travel thousands of miles from home tcw­ritory and still be greeted in the parking lot by vast numbers of tailgatcrs all offer­ing you free rood and drink simply bncausc of your status as a student or alum of Notrn Dame or Saint Mary's'? What other sdrnol can have pnople from­many different generations sitting in a bar cheering and screaming for its team­nearly every Saturday in the fall? 
Notre Damn football has an enormous pull on anyone who has experienced it. While I was nxploring this continent immndiatnly following my graduation in I <)()8, I saw thn homo opl'nrff against Michigan on television in An<·.horagc, Alaska. where I had resolvnd lo Pxpnri­encn tlrn Arctic winter. That ganw stirrml within me a homesicknnss to snn tlw campus again and dragged me out of' my planned hibernation. A f'ornwr collnagun and I travnlnd to South B<>nd last yPar to 
tailgate and on the off c:hancP that we might !ind tickPls and get inlo a game. Wn did and it was great f'un. But. that same W!\nkN1d, I stayPcl owr and walkPCI around thn silent. sonw­
what unwelcoming cam­pus. I had no rnason !'or b1\ing tlwrn. But tlw Jlr<'­
vious Friday and Saturday ['nit likn I was part ol' tlw family. 
On thal wnnknnd trip, I notie11d that I don't quit<i lit with tlw studPnts from 
tlw I1J80s and narli<'r c~ither. Tlwir lil'nsty!,)s an' on my distant horizon. But conw this Saturday I will br, standing, fWrhaps at Coar:lws, pPrhaps in 

l.aFortunn Stud1\11t C:rmwr, pPrhaps in th,~ parking lot as a tailgatPr, p1\rhaps in llw stadium 
itsnlf'. I will lw standing tlwrn with 
those people to whom I cannot yc~t rnlatn on tlrn onP hand and with thosn to whom I can no longnr ri-latn on tlw Qtlrnr. 
But, through this wnnknml's gamn WI' become one family that c:an mc(:t 011 Olli' issue, pride and support for our school. 
Mall Loughran is a l<J<JR graduate of the Uniuersity ofNotre !Jwne and cur­rently works as an editorial production assistant for a puhlishin,q house in Maryland. 
The views expressed in this ,:olumn are those<?/'lhe author and not necessarily those ,fThe Ob.•wrvf'r. 
DILBERT 
E 
8
HA HA! YOU NEVER 

2

SHOULD HAVE LET ME @l 
e
GET A TECHNICAL 

'O"' 
..
CE.fl..TIFICATION. 

5 
)l 
E 
0 
u 
! :s 
c;::::=;:;~:::=::::::::~ ~ 

"-,;;;;;1,....1,.....,___________,~.___~.LL--~------J~-------.J....---'-----' 

I USED MY NEW POWER TO GET 
A BETTER JOB 
AT A DIFFER.ENT COMPANY. 


SCOTT ADAMS 
TELL ME. AGAIN WHY I HIRED
'IOU(­


! a=:=:;;::!;;;==;:i 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nobody will ever win the baft{(' rd' the sex,, . .,.. There's too much fra fem izing with lite enemy." 
Henry Kissinger Secretary of State 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Friday, September 1, 2000 BSERVER page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Voicing support for female on Irish Guard 
President of "The Shirt" committee defends decision 
,\s lrnad rnordinalor or "Thn Shirt." I fop! compnlled lo rPspond to yesterday's article entitlnd ··studm1t questions 'Thn Shirt's' rww dPsign conct•pt. This articlo is l"ull of' f'alsn information and may bP tlw least obj<1ctivP article Tim Obs11rver has cv<\r printed. 
Lonlrary lo tlw article. "The Shirt'' is studl'nt-run. lirnry year, students choose tlw llnsign of thn shirt, the color and thn manuf'acturnr. ThPy negotiate with vrnulors, deliver the shirL'i and handln markPiing. Univ1)rsity officials an• not involvml in any of these activi­tit!S. ,\s Prnsidnnl, I am Urn one who, in the mid. not only choso the design, but !wiped design it as well. I also was the one who chosl' the manuf'acturr:r for thr: Shirt. Cadre Athletic. 
No Notrn Dame official made that decision. I did. Regarding Neil Fitzpatrick. wn apologize that his design was not allowed by the administration, but Umt was beyond our nmtrol. This is the most visible shirt Notre Dame pro­duces. Tens of thousands of these shirts will be s<wn on NBC wnekly. The admin­istration has the obligation to make sure "Thi) Shirt" passes certain stan­dards. I had the bcist interest of the stu­dent body when I made the decision to create a new design. The design is origi­nal and uses photography that t'ar out­dates Mr. Fitzpatrick's own composi­tion. 
The true purpose of "The Shirl" is to raise money for Student Activities and a unique Notre Dame charity. It is the largest student fundraiser on campus raising over $200,000 annually. Half of this money goPs to Student Activities to help fund such events as SYHs, con­certs. speakers, otc. The other half goes to a charity fund to help Notre Dame studPnts, faculty and administration whu have experienced catastrophes. For example, in the past the charity has helped very sick students who could not afford the medical attention they required. This year, part of the shirt's protiL'> will be distributed lo rectors to 
help students who may be in nmid. 
Basically, what it boils down to is that "Thfl Shirt" is a great tradition at Notre Dame. It will be awesome to see every­one wearing green at the gamo. Don't be swayed by yesterday's article. Go out and purchase "The Shirl!" Support Notre Dame, support your fellow stu­dents, support the football team. and support the must important charity on campus. I hope to sno you all out at thn game Saturday, dunning "The Shirt." 
Doug Pardon 
Senior 
off campus August j l. 2000 

Guard chosen 
I Ii: 

because skill and talent 
I.as!. wn1•k a girl mad1, tho Irish Guard. i\ girl. Yt>slPrclay, i\nthony Farina knpt up with a lost, but not fiffgoUPll Notr<· Danw tradilion: whining. Ill' felt sorry for th«' nirn•ct Irish GuardpPrsons. but not for its nnwt•st rnmal1i nrnmbcr. I!P bP!ii~vPd that Notre Damn broke• with tradition in ordnr to prornot1; miuality. That is what !w said and this is why hn is wrong. 
Tlw most important thing ul Notre Dame is not tradi­tion. Anthony tlw Agitat«~rl. it's cXt'.cllnnr.t1. I s,~riously doubt tlw! Dr. Dp! or tlw r:aptains of' this lrnrald()d tt'arll chosP this :.young lad_1,·" simply bPcausP shn fit thn six-li1ot-two-i1H'.h rriti~ria. Diel it 1•vcr cross vour mind that sll!' was llw hPsl person !"or Uw job'! \\\ire you awan' that shn tried out last yt•ar and had to try doubly hard lo mak1! il this ytiar'? I doubt it. bPcausn in your ('Y!)S PVPrything must lw politically correct. 
Dr. Dy(' ,.,ill not rngrnt his dt\dsion, as you presume, lwcausP Llw PXcPIIPnw will not lw lost. ThP dutiPs and skill of Llw iww Irish CuardpPoplP will not have diang(•d. Tlwy won't alt(~mpt to "fit in bt>tter with somn or tlw idiotif" idPas floating about in our society." Them is simply a girl on tlw Irish c;uard. Tlwy won·t t•xdmngP llwir big lluf!y hats for upside-down back­wards 1·isors and llwv won't lf'ad Llw band into lhP sta­dium doing tlw Hogtii· B.abbit. What they will do. how­PVPr. is n·pn•s(•nt tlw University likP those before them. 
Fwry tradition, \1r. Farina, is iiwvitably broknn. 1am just glad tlrnt this l"Pmalc\ pimrnpr was chos1\I1 becaus(1 slw is !'xt·!'IIPnt and dPsnrving. not bPcauso of" her snxu­ality. This anli-1 %Os "Oh my God. whnn did woman leaVP tlw kitc-lwn" plwnonwnon, which "causes fodings ol" angn and naust•a to arisP in (yoursnlf) and every Noire Danw alurmrns" means only lhal you are clm;e­mindPd. Many alumni. most studPnts and even past Irish Cuardsnwn an' happ:, for thP lPam's prt1tliest smilP. 
Su \\·lwn :,·ou gPt a cham:P to watch tlw nc1w Guards ll'ad Llw band into llw stadium on any giwn Saturday. I advisP ~·ou lo look dosidy. l hop!! you anm·t loo proud to not.in· that nothing has chang<:d. Thn newnst female nwmlwr will lw marching proudly and wPll. But don't g11t too dosn. my iww f'riPnd. or shn will unlmsitantly put you in your plact:. And deservedly so. 
Christopher Howald Senior orrcunpus August -~ l , 2000 
Proud to be led by newest Guard member 
This lcitor is in rnsponse to Anthony Farina's let­ter "New Guard Breaks Tradition." While I can understand Mr. Farina's viewpoint that some tra­ditions should not be broken, he blatantly missed the fact that the criteria for the Irish Guard are: (1) the guard candidate should be over six-foot-two­inches tull and (2) possess ouL'iianding marching skills. No guideline for the sex of the candidate is ever mentioned. 
The fact is that there are not many women taller than six-foot-two and even less women that would wish to repnisent the Univnrsity as an Irish Guard member. Molly Kinder is: n) over six-foot-two and 
(2) sh<~ nxhibits superior marching skills. Obviously she mm1ts the criteria to be in the Guard. 
I have heard of women trying out in the past, but none have had marching skills strong enough to make the Guard. The fact that a woman has never been in the Guard before is not a "time-hon­ored tradition," it is a matter of cir­cumstance. 
i\nyono present at band audi­tions would have observed that Molly marched an outstanding audition. Dr. Dye, the Assistant Directors and the graduate students all deemed that she had the qualities necessary to be a member of the Irish Guard. 
Mollv was no( selected for thP band "to be politically cor­rnct, or to try to lit in better with some of the idiotic ideas floating about in our society." Nothing about the deeision was madn to "promote equality." She was selocted to boa member of the Irish Guard because she possesses superior marching abilities and she will exude a strong presence on the field. 
Since day one of her selection into the Guard she has excelled at learning andmemorizing the half-time show and showing her complete dedica­tion to the spirit of the band. 
I feel that Molly exemplifies the spirit of the Fighting Irish and I am proud to lead the band with Molly Kinder as a member of the Irish Guard. 
Jim Mcfarlin 
Head Drum Major University ofNotre Dame Marching Band August 31, 2000 
Breaking traditions is progress 
Out of tho sense of spirit that so characterizes everything we do at Notre Dame and a desire to watch history being made, I attended Molly Kinder's tryout for the Irish Guard. I saw her nail each and every complicated maneuver, easily out­classing most of her male competitors. Not only did she possess the necessary height and skill require­ments. she had more grace and presence than almost all of the men out there. If the other nine men on the Irish Guard have any insight at all, they will take advantage of what Molly has to offer instead of feeling sorry for themselves or exduding her as Farina suggests. 
Furthermore, I had the luck to live only a hall away from Molly last year in McGlinn and I was constantly amazed by how warm, friendly and 
inviting her personality was. Never did I feel inferior to her as a freshman and I was always greeted with a broad smile 
whenever I saw her. She truly does exemplify the best of what it means to be a Notre Dame student and could only improve, not taint, thn hallowed image of the Irish Guard. 
I realize that every person is entitled to an opinion, but it baf­fles mo that anyone could possi­bly suggest we should deny an outstanding, skilled and quali­fied person the opportunity to showcase her talents simply 
because it would break tradition. Was it as equally "angering" and "nauseating" to see women admitted to the University of Notre Dame in 1972, breaking a 130 ynar tradition? What kind of a school would Notre Dame be ifwe weren't constantly re-evaluating our rules, regu­lations and traditions? Yes, tradition is often a vital and necessary component of life 
at Notre Dame. However, Farina makes it appear as if breaking tradition were a cardinal sin, as if the entire infrastructure of Notrn Dame would crumble if one of its "prized traditions" was changed. Guess what? Traditions are broken everyday: it's called progress. 
Meg Fitzpatrick Sophomore McGlinn Hall August 3 1. 2000 


Friday, September I, 2000 

Pholo curtoesy of yell.tamu.edu 
Yell leaders need more than a big mouth to earn their position. Being a yell leader means knowing a dozen different cheers for each season, and having the spirit to get the crowd behind their Aggies. Above, 1999-2000 yell leader Jeff Bailey starts a yell at a midnight Rally. Center, current leader Bubba Moser gets down on his knees to get the crowd moving. Bottom, Bailey lets the microphone help project his booming voice. 
Open your 
The rich tradition of TexasA&!v 
motivation to pumpu 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Scene Writer 

At last year's home opener, Irish traditions and spirit had the whole stadium to tlrnm­selves. Kansas wasn't really known for its football traditions and its fans were more interest­ed in seeing the Dome than cheering for their team. This year, everything has changed. While the spirit of Notre Dame and its wondrous traditions are unmatched. they will not go unchallenged. 
This year, the Aggies are com­ing to town. 
While A&M's success on the gridiron is great, the stands are where the best in A&M tradi­tions reside. Led by five student "yell leaders," A&M fans are known for their synchronized hand motions and cheers, known as "yells." 
"It's a whole lot of fun," head yell leader Ricky Wood said about cheering at an A&M game. "Even when you are a freshman you feel like you are a part of something bigger." 
The yell leaders act as the preachers before the choir of Texas A&M fans. Students, alumni and fans all know the yells and hand motions that are as much a part of an A&M game as the quarterback. 
The first documented evidence of yell leaders dates back to 1907 but Wood believes the tra­dition extends into the 19th cen­tury. The all-male military school atmosphere at A&M gave rise to the organization and spir­it needed for the boisterous yells, according to Wood. 
Although A&M students are no longer required to join the Corps of Cadets and the school went co-cd in 1973 (yes, some schools Texas A&M yell leaders Kevin Grahm, Ben Cholik, Ricky Wood, took even longer than Notre their nationally known hand signals and cheers to motivate fan Dame to admit women), the tra­ditions of the yell leaders live on. 
Wood expects the yell leaders to use practices are midnight pPp rallies that between IO and 12 yells this year. Each are attended by up to 30,000 fans tlrn yell is many years old but is occasional­night before each game. ly modified IJy the yell leaders to fit cer­The two junior and three senior mem­
tain games. bers of the squad are elected by a pop­
"It's at the discretion of the yell lead­ular vote of' the students. "It's sort of' ers to choose the yells to motivate the like a small town election," Wood said. crowds," Wood said. The yells range in The students choose the person who tone from humorous to motivational IJut will best represent the school. In addi­all of them are loud. "It really depends tion to leading the cheers at sporting on the situation. Some are funny. Some events, the yell leaders also attend make fun of the other team and some many social functions and med with arc just for motivating the team." alumni groups. 
After every cheer each student makes "It's not always the craziest guy." 
a noise and hand motion known as a Wood said. "People assume it's the guy "wildcat." Each class is assigned a dif­who can drink the most and yell tlrn 
ferent "wildcat." Every Aggie fan will loudest but it is really the people who know which yell to cheer by watching will be the brrnt representatives for the the hand signals of the yell leaders. The school." 
hand signals and cheers are taught to The Aggie cheers will surely make the the freshmen at yell practices. Yell Stadium an intense place this Saturday Friday, September I, 2000 




mouth and yell! 
yellleaders will give Notre Dame fans some extra thevolume in the stands this weekend. 
ry predictions. 
"With the past couple of years, I am hesitant to say we'll win," she said. "Diego is a little more laid back than I am. He will be a lot less upset if Notre Dame wins than I will be if Notre Dame loses." 
The couple met through their jobs with Spirit shortly after graduation and were married in 1999. While Diego and Christy have gotten along well despite the upcoming gridiron showdown, Diego is a little concerned with the way an A&M fan will be received at Notre Dame. 
"I am a little worried about how I'll be treat­ed," he said. "With my A&M hat and shirt, I going to try to keep it a little covered. I just have to be ready with some witty comebacks." 
Although the crowds at A&M are known for their spirit throughout the sta­dium, Christy has been disappointed sitting with the alumni since she graduated. 
"That's one negative about coming back to a game as an alumna," she said. "You don't feel the spirit of the stadium. You are with adults and they are much more relaxed. They just sit there." 
Thanks to the yell lead­ers at A&M, however, the whole crowd gets into the games. 
"It's pretty intense," said Deigo. "It seems kind of silly to talk about but once you are there its 

Photo courtesy of yall.tamu.adu extremely powerful. They 
ubba Moser, and Sam Seidel will make the stadium roar this weekend as they use do the yells and so all the motions with the songs that the students do. There's a lot more move­ment at A&M." He 
After the two Irish Cotton Bowl victo­
assessed the Notre Dame crowds as 
ries, his A&M friends have been itching "pretty tame" in comparison.
for a chance for a rematch. A possible reason for the yell leaders "Notre Dame is kind of the evil north­ability to incite a crazier crowd at A&M 
ern aggressor who came down and than the Irish cheerleaders can incite trampled them one too many times," he in the Stadium could be the physicalsaid. preparations the yell leaders go
While Newhouse and his friends have through. Rather than attending sepa­exchanged friendly barbs, things have rate cheerleader practices, the yell
remained relatively calm in the home leaders all work out with the football of Deigo and Christy Jimenez -Texas team. A&M Class of 1996 and Notre Dame Although NCAA regulations prohibitClass of 1996 respectively. them from suiting up in pads anymore,
"J wouldn't say there is any extra the yell leaders still run, lift and drill tension." Christy said. "I hope Notre in the hot Texas sun, right along side Dame wins but we'll see." the football players.
Although A&M is known fur their Wood says the Aggies are ready to 
intense fans, Christy says she takes her avenge the previous loses to the Irish. football more seriously than Deigo. "Regardless of what y'all are ranked, Considering last year's record. howev­it's still a big deal to beat Notre Dame," er, Christy isn't making any bold victo· he said. 
Other loud traditions 
In addition to the yull leaders. t.be Aggi.es have scvet·td otber traditions. lhnt may seem odd tu N<>tro Dame fans. llerc .ire just a f(},·v of '1\-.xt•.s A&M's many tradi~ Hons thpJ. you might seo on campus this wot,kentl. 
Corps of Cadets 

Although A&.M students huve not. been n~quin,dto join the Corps of Cacfots since 1965, the military organization is still a mwer force in College Station. Sonm of
l

·he 2.200 stud«•nti,; ,,.,-110 are in tlu• Corf?S 
may be walking a.round t•ampus tl11s 
weekend iu their tuu uniforms und black 
boots. 

Gig 'em This 'tbtmtbswup' hnnd sign and cheer 
origim.tted at a 19:;o Yell Pnt(·ticu. Befort, a g'anrn with the Texas Christian Horn 1:rogs, Pinky Downs of tJu.. class or. 1906 was asked what the Aggies were gomg to do to Uw llor1wd Frogs. Pinkv rcspona.ed ..We}l tJw bt•st way to make a Trog Jlll!lJl i~!~l gig em•. am,I madt.• n. thumbs.up sign,
ltns tm·•u lor lrog huntrng has smct• bt•un adaptt>d ,,s no uuotlitial sdwol motto. 
Sooriog after the score f{)Ut.Jwiug M'en l',,xns A&M s•·•.r•~ Hf 
tlH'Y do nrnoagt~ 'to rn)ss tlw go.ii litw}
look l'or A&M coNls to kiss. This kiss ,·an 1.•ang·t·t.~ front n sin?\!h~ ttt•rk to a full"."llrdgPd
get-sent40-Ht•sL1 e nutktHmt s<•ssion. 
Reveille 

Tbe full ~blood collie masrot of the Aggies has bNm n fixture on A&M sidt'­Hnes sin(~<• l9:H. Named for the lrn~lt• wake up call that :H\'akens the Cadets. lleveill<• is one of the most highh' t"N'ered ligun,s i.n Collt••"t• Station. • ' 
C:adNs must addrt..ss the currrnt He\'t>illt•. Hevuille VI. as ''Miss He,· ma'am•~ and must sh•ep on the floor if they find lwr slel'J>ing in their bt•d. 
The 12th man 

Tht, student se<•tiun at T<'xas A&M. is kumn1 as the 12th man. Even' student stands throughout Urn game sigimling the 
rNtdiness to'enter the 'ganw at any hnw. Ip a P-l,22 ~nnw ,agarn~t top-rankt•dContrn Colle~(•. A&\) suflPred mtmerous injnrit•s anti the onh· h\tahh:v pl.n-Prsf(Httaining wt•re the 'l t plavl~·rs mi tht• 
tlE"ld. ' • lfoad coach Hana Bible ealled A&M stu­
dent E. King Gill, a fornwr football plan.•r. down from~ the stands and asked hini to suit up in case., of ano.tber injurv. Although G.iH never saw action, he was readv 1o play at anv time fnr the Aggies. Toda\.,en.•rv student stands throughout Hie 
game signaling their readiness to enter the ganu". 

The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 1, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Braves drop out of lead in race for NL East pennant 
Associated Press 
Tlw Atlanta Brnvf!S It'll out of lirsl plac:I' in llw NL East for tlm first lirn(• sirH·r• April 19. losing to thP Cinri1111ati Bnds .J<{ on Sean Cas1)y's liPbrc11king doubh•. 
Allanla dropp<'d a hall'-ganw btihind tlw idln Nmv York Mets. Tlw BravPs lost thn•e of' four to C:i11cin11ali, going 2-6 on a honw­stancl that lt'ft tlwm with a 14-15 !'l'('nrct in August. 
This is first tit1w sinc(1 l9<J:1 thn llravPs hav,· not bPPn in first plan• lhis laLC' in thP s11as011. Atlanta has won 1iight straight division titles. 
Tlw lkds. lwld hitless for four innings l,y startnr Kevin '.Vtillwood. ov(1rranH• a 2-0 dnlirit with a fom-nrn sixth inning. 
Millwood brok!' his nost' in a bunting drill l\londay and was not nxpPctNI to makP his schcrl­11h•cl start. But aftPr throwing off tlw nrnuncl WNhwsday, Im said he was 1'!\adv. 
Hookic John llifldling gol the win with l 2-3 innings of relief, lwlpPCI by a basf~running blunder by Andruw .lonns in the sixth. 
·llaf,wl Furcal op1inr!d the /\llanta sixth ,vith a walk and Jmrns. who Parlinr hit his 30th honwr or !lw sPason. was hit by a pitch. Chip1wr .Jones tlwn llicd out to Dmitri Young at tlw lPll­fi1~lcl wall and Andruw Jones rac1~d past snrond basP but failed to touch it on his return to first and was rulf'd out. 
/\ndrl's c;,tlarraga followed wilh a walk and B.J. Surhoff bloopncl an BBi single ofT reliever Dennvs BPvns. Sr.olt Sullivan n-lin;Pd a,.1d struck out Javy Lopnz on thrn1• pitrlws. 
Sullivan walked th1~ hases loadNI with two outs in thn snv­nnth bdon' striking out Chipper 
CLASSIFIEDS 
.Jon,is to 1111d thn threat. 
Danny Gravns pitchPd tlrn 
ninth for his 24th save. 
The Heds had dotH\ little until lhc sixth, when Pokey Heese led off wilh a single and Chris Stynns doublnd. 
Ken Griffey Jr. followed with an HBI groundout and Dmitri Young singkd homo a run. Casey dm1bl<1d l'or a 4-2 lnad and one out latN, Bt'llito Santiago hit an BBi single. 
Devil Rays 2, Royals 1 
Bobby Smith doubled homo 1.hfl go-ahead run in th" eighth inning us the Tampa Ray Drvil Hays beat tho Kansas City Hoyals. 
Stev1\ Cox. who wont 3-for-3, opened the eighth with a walk from Jpff Suppan. l'inr:h-runnor Jason Tyn!'r stolfl second with one out and W<rnt to third on Fred McCrilfs ground<ir. Smith. mired in a l-for-27 slump. duu­blP-d to centnr fiiild. 
Tony Fiore workf'd a scornlnss eighth to gtH his first major league win. Hoberto Ilnrnandnz got the linal three outs for his 28th savo in 34 opportunities. 
Suppan gavn up two runs and seven hits in 7 2-3 innings. It was just his seeond loss in SPV(\11 docisions since the All-Star brnak. 
Tampa Bay has won 13 ol' tho last 16 nwntings betwncn the two lnams. 
Todd Dunwoody's sacrilice ny in the SE~cond inning gave tho Royals 1-0 lead. The Devil Hays tind it in the sixth when Smith hit into a doubln play with the basns loaded. 
Devil Hays starter Paul Wilson allowed 01m run and f'ive hits over seven innings in his sncond start ol' tlw snason. The right-hander, acquired from Nnw York Gonzalnz drovn in a pair of runs gins. !\frts July 29. missed all ot' last l'or the Padres. After Charlit! I lay11s rnarlwd on season after elbow surgery. Witasick gave up four runs an inl'inld singln to load tlw 
Tampa Bay got a runner to and six hits in live innings. and bases. Matt I lnrges rnlitwf'd and third basn in the first. third and also drove in his third run of thn struck out Ilnnry Blanrn. 1.opnz SI\Vonth innings with two outs. year. follow11d with a two-run singfo to McGriff struck out to Pnd tho Williri Green!' hit a thrnn-run incrnasn tho lnarl to <>-I . lirst, Greg Vaughn flied out in homer !'or the Cubs in tho lirst Tho Dodgm-s got a run in thn the third and (;nrald Williams hit inning, but Kevin Tapani gav1~ l'ourth on i\lnx Cora's sacrilkn a s1wonth-inning fly ball. up his 34th honrnr of tlrn ynar. lly . .Jenkins· singln and a two-out 
second-most in tlw NL. doubln by Burnitz mad<\ it 7·2 in Tapani allowml snvnn runs and thn bottom hall'.
Padres 11, Cubs 5 
ninc hits in 5 2-:~ innings. his Lopez honwrml in tlw nighlh. 
Phil NPvin hurt the Chicago 
short.est outing sincn going two Tho Brnwnrs crasNI a 1-0Cubs again, driving in four runs, innings May 20. dt1fkit with two runs with twobut thn San Dingo Padres victory Thn loss linislwd off a misnr­outs in tlrn first. .l1n1kins tif'd itwas marrod when winning pitch­
able August for tlw Cubs. who with his 2:ith homnr, SPxson 
or Jay Witasick was hospitalized 
were only six ganws below .500 walkPd and Burnitz hit an Bill
l'nr heat exhaustion. 
on /\ug. 2. Since then. tht\y'vn doubh
Witasick wasn't tho only one 
gorrn 8-19.
alfoctnd by the hnat, which was 
They also lost tlrn stiason sPritis

88 but fnlt about IO degreos Giants 10, Pirates 2 
to the Padres for the first Unw
warmer becausn of the humidity. Kirk But>tnr lwal tilt'
since 1995. San Dingo won liw
Cubs star Sammy Sosa left the Pittsburgh Piralf'S as much with
of the teams' night ganH1s this 
game af'tor the snventh inning his bat as with his arm, driving
season.
because of cramps in his loft leg. in four runs with tlm)f' hits lo Sosa said al'torward ho was finn. hack his two-run pild1ing as llw 
Witasick !ell the game after the Brewers 8, Dodgers 2 San Franl'isl'o Ciants rruis<·cl to a lifth inning, dizzy and disorient­.Jnromy Burnitz and Luis Lopnz I 0-2 victm-v. ed. and was takon to Illinois each drow in thrnp runs. IPading Bill Mu;,1 !Pr and .J nf'f Knn t Masonic Ilospital. the Milwauk11e BrnwPrs over tlw honwrnd as tlw Ciants won thrt>t' 
"When he camo up hr.re, hr Los Angcilcs Dodgers 8-2. of four in tlw sPri<'s to i111:rnasP didn't know what inning it was," Geoff Jenkins homenicl. dou­tlll'ir NI. Wt>st lead ov<·r icllt> Padres general manager Kevin bled, singled and scornd thrnn t\rizona to thrnn g11nlt's. Towers said. "He was having a runs. Lopez honrnnid and ThPir t'ighth loss in 10 ganlt's hard time running the bases. Ile 13urnitz doublncl twicf' and sin­linislwd a misPrablc August for said that wlrnn hn was looking al gled. tlw l'intl(\S, who havP tlw Wiki, Wiki was sideways and he Burnitz, who has struggbl all m,~jors' worst rPmrd. was seeing black spots." season after !ming named to tlw With managf'r c;1nw Lamont 
Witasik will stay overnight. NL All-Star tnam in 1999. raisnd almost rnrtain to Ii<' lime! as soon and the Padres don't know if his average to .22:i. as tlw sPason PIHls. llw l'i ralPs he'II make his nnxt slarL Paul Higdon allow(1d two runs f'<-11 a l'(~lllarkahk :i2 gamPs 
Nevin hit a lwo-run homer and on live hits in six innings. strik­undPr .:iOO ovnr tlu' last lwo rnl­drove in another two runs, lin­ing out four and walking onn. nndar ynars. Tlwy lost 2:i ol' llwir ish ing 4-for-5. In thn last :rn Carlos P(1rez gavP up six runs linal :m in ICJCJ8 and \WI'(' 78-84 gamns. the formPr No. 1 pick has and seven hits in two-plus last snason. hit .407 with nine doubles and innings. Tim c;iants didn't 1wt>cl long lo 34 BBls -Im drove in a career Milwauk,w chastid l'nrnz in a gnt to .lost> Silva (H-<J). who high-tying six runs Monday at four-run third inning. Mark allowt>d Pight runs on 10 hits in Wrigley Field. Loretta drew a orw-out walk. :1 2-:1 innings whilP failing to last 
Pinch-hiller Kory DnHaan .lnnkins doublnd and Bichin livn innings for tlw lif'th tinw in added a two-run homer, and Sexson and Burnitz hit HBI sin-six starts. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from H ,t.m. w .l l'-111. ,II till' Notre l)am,· oflac,·. 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for nex1-day classifieds is .l p.m. Al d,issifi,·ds mus1 lw prep,1id. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The ( )h,t·rwr resc·rv,·, till' n~l11 10 edi1 all classifieds for content wi1hou1 issuing refunds. 
1 mile from NO in quiet neighbor-ND FOOTBALL TKTS hood. 251-1570 2 Bedroom very clean.
WANTED FOR RENT TICKETS PERSONAL
$69. 500. VICTORY TKTS 
Call 219-264=4966 BUY"SELL'TRADE EARN EXTRA CASH FOR RENT BUSINESS MAN NEEDS ND FOOTBALL I NEED YOUR HELP' Word-processing lrom dictation SOUTH BEND LODGING That Pretty Place. Bed and Nebraska tickets or season 232=0964 involving client case slud,es Must In-home B&B lodging for football Breakfast Inn has space available GA only. 277-1659 www.victorytickets.com l'M A '92 ND GRAD AND LOT MY have computer. Dictaphone prov1d-games & ND-SMC events. Close to for football/parent wknds. YEARBOOK IN A FLOOD. IF YOU ed. Call for info + inlerv1ew mom-campus. Breakfast incl. Call 5 rooms with private baths, WANTED BUY/SELL ND TICKETS KNOW ANYONE WHO HAS A '92 mgs. M-Thur. 219-243-2628 $80-$115, NO FOOTBALL TKTS 273-3911 YEARBOOK AND WOULD NOT Ask for Cindy. 287-3373 Middlebury, 30 miles lrom campus 289-9280 MIND PARTING WITH IT, PLEASE 
3 bdrm apt. home at 616 E. Howard Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-TICKET MART CALL ME AT SPRINGBREAK 2001 St. Available immediately. Walking 9487. VICTORY TKTS BUY/SELL/TRADE 830-772-5956 OR E-MAIL AT Hiring On-Campus Reps distance lo campus, accessible to BUY-SELL •TRADE ALL GAMES esquivele@mindspring.com SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, GO public transportation. $500 ea. Sec. I have 5 bedrooms for rent in my ND FOOTBALL 271-9330 Thank you, FREE!!' Dep of &250 ea. Call 289-9484 nicely decorated private hoe for 232-0964 Cnslina Ortiz Student Travel Services Football weekends; www.victorytickets.com ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED America's #1 Student Tour N.D. RENTAL LAKEFRONT HOME less than 2 miles north of stadium. A.M. -232-2378 Operator ON MAGICIAN LAKE AVAILABLE continental brklsl included. ALWAYS BUYING NEBRASKA P.M. -288-2726 SKYDIVE Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas, WEEKLY. OR FOR WKNDS. 3 Many happy repeal customers! 271-9330 Training Students for 35 Years Europa, Florida BDRMS. 1 1/2 BATHS. DECK, Call Kim 277-8340 BUY/SELL ND. FOOTBALL TICK-1 Hour North of South Bend 1 ·800·648-4849 SCREENED IN PORCH. THIS NO FOOTBALL TIX WANTED ETS. GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS. INC. www.gospringbreak.com HOME IS NIGEL Y FURNISHED Recent ND grads need Turtle Creek A.M -232-2378 HOME & AWAY GAMES. 1-800-351-6617 
AND OVERLOOKS BEAUTIFUL apartment to crash at for ND-NU P M -288-2726 (219)289-8048. www.greatlakessydivers.com Looking for a babys,l!er in our LAKE AND IS CLOSE TO INDIAN weekend. home. GOLF COURSE. ALSO IN THE $600 and will stock apartment with Looking to trade Grad student ticket Two GA tix M'Shan -how are the knees? Flex hours. AREA ARE MANY APPLE lots of /ood and beverages book for Senior tickets lo sit by Ga Tech. Nebraska When you meel lhe big lat sportsre-No Sundays. ORCHARDS READY FOR PICK-/fund big party. friends. Will pay$$. Call 287-2433 219-287-1449 porter, let me know. Please call 258-4115 ING. THIS HOME WILL SLEEP 6. Counteroffers encouraged. 
$350 WEEKENDS $850 WEEKLY mattea@alumni.lawupenn.edu ATTENTIONI! I am paying $175.00 Need 1 cheap Purdue Ticket Call Krupa is on campus 630-964-6620 each, !or NEBRASKA tickets. John 4-3670 616-424-3246 Earn 30-40% commission selling (219)289-8048, Welcome ND Club of San Diego1 
FOR SALE Home and Garden Party. Contact SELLING TEXAS A&M. $75 00 ea. En1oy your stay under the dome. 
2 BDRM APTS FOR 2000-01. Mana at Need 4 GA's for Stanford 289-8048 Thanx for everything. Women's Schwinn Bike ALSO LEASING FOR 2001-02. www.homepartybus1ness.com for a Chris 634~4751 26" like New DAVE 291-2209 free catalog and more information. Beeley.1@nd.edu 2 tix for ND-Texas A&M game avail-You have to love fire alarms. 
Robbye 631-6218 able nowl!I 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE LOVE KIDS? Need lix -75 Grad need 2-4 GA for Call Sean at 634-1454 for more Kickoff classic launches the 2000 Beautiful brass bed, queen s,ze, AON CLOSE TO CAMPUS WANT TO EARN GOD MONEY Neb and/or Pur. Call Tony info. foolbal season, with orthopedic mattress set and http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS (714 )523-3686, deluxe frame. email:mmmrentals@aol.com A WEEK? GA Ticket Available for TC crew. All new. never used, still 1n plastic. 232-2595 Need 1 T A&M ticket Nebraska Game -Sept. 9 I miss you in McGlinn. $235. Area family needs individual to care price negotiable Lower Section, 20 Yd. Line KO 
Apartment for rent ND football for two daughlers 2-3 times/wk from x1755James Con1act Jay: (201) 264-0262 Condo • townhouse weekends. 2 mi. from campus. 3,6 p.m. startmg mid-Sept. tailgating and ND football. 2 bdrms, 1 1/2 bath w/hreplace. All Parking pass included. Sleeps five Mom attending grad school in Needed: 4 Nebraska tix. WANTED what more could a person want? updated. Must see. $69.000 Call Call 243-0791 for into. Chicago. Call 634-1430 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 219-291-8601, Girls are delightful 289-9280 Besides a win. 
2BR. 2nd fir. Apt, 525/mo. transprtn needed STANFORD. AIR FORCE, 1 mile from ND in quiet neighbor-Along Sr. Joe River Generous pay! BOSTON. NEED 3-5 GA TICKETS FOR Enjoy the sunshine hood, 2 Bedroom very clean Incl Water/SacSystJTrash If interested please call Karen Cheap. NEBRASKA FOOTBALL GAME. $69,500. Call 219·264-4966 288-2654 or 288-2788 Stonehill at 272-5013. 654-0168 PLEASE CALL 1-630·904-6418 Go Irish. 
Friday, September l, 2000 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 pJge 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September I, 2000 

NBA 

Trail Blazers trade for height 
the linals, blowing a I:i-point talented as the guys who were Associated l'rcss 
lead parlv in tlw l'ourth quar­playing in front of' him," ter to los~\ Game 7 ol' the cun­Dunleavy said. 
l'OHTLANll. Ore. 

fornncc finals to the Laknrs. ffN,-ml. r.nttiring tlrn second 
Tlw Portland Trail Blawrs In tlw finals, Shaq led the year of a four-year, $24 mil­

have lwnn sl'lwming and con­
Laknrs past Indiana, hut Davis lion contract Im sigtrnd last niving all surnmPr long. trying 
played well against O'Neal. summer. demanded to be 
to figurl' out a way to hf!at 
Davili had 20 points and 14 traded in mid-June. DunleavyShaquillt, O'Neal. 
rebounds in the deciding said O'Ncal could have 
In lnss than 24 hours, tlrn 

Came (1 improv!'d his drnnces at more 
Blaz!'rs add!'d rwarly 14 font 
"llc's a terriric rebounder, minutns by playing on 
or brawn airrrnd at slowing 
shot-blocker and d1ifendct." Portland's summer league
down Shafi and disrupting tlw 
Portland coach Mike Dunlnavy team, but on the day he was 
l.akers· l'hann's of repeating 
said. "And I Lhought his offen­supposed tu leave for Long as NB/\ champio11s. 
sivP ganrn was nw bnst he's Beach, O'Neal wnnt shoppingA day aftf'r acquiring 6-foot­had in the NBA... for hats at a department store. 
10 Shawn Kemp from the 
The Blaz,us might have Portland must seem like par­
Cl<w11land Cavalinrs, the 
more forwards than lhoy know adise revisited for Kemp, who Blawrs got 6-11 Dalt~ Davis in what to do with. !Jut Dunleavy fled a terrible situation in 
a trado wilh tlHi Indiana 
insists all the big men will give Cleveland and returns to the Pacers on Thursday. 
him more versatility. Kemp Pacific Northwest, where he 
"We're trying to win u cham­likely will back up Hashirnd became a star with the Seattle 

pionship, .. Blazers general 
Wallace at power forward, but Supersonics.
managtir Bob Whitsitt said. 
he also could play r.entcr "It's going to be a rebirth of 
"We'rn clos!l. and we'ro trying 
bchinct Arvydas Sabonis and my career," Kemp said. 
tn do all we can while we're in 
small forward in relir:f of KP.mp dertly handled ques­
that window." 
Pippen. tions about his weight, which 
Kemp was traded 

That adds up to a lot of fouls soared past 300 pounds last 
three-way

Wcd1H'sdav in a to throw at O'Neal. summer and brought him 
deal that ul~o sent Brian Gru1{L 
"The best thing to do with waves of taunts with the 
from Portland to thn Miami Shaq is to put a me
guy like Cavaliers. 
Ilnat. who dealt Chris Gatling 
and llash1ied Wallace on the ''I've heard so much about 
and Clarence Weatherspoon to court and let us outrun Shaq," the weight the last coupleCleveland a.long with a future Kemp said, "Jf he can do that years that all I can tell you is,
tirst-rounrl pick. To get Davis, for a series training camp,
seven games in once I go to the Blazers gave up underper­
and not be tired, he might be that won't be a problem," he 
forming and unhappy forward 
the rnal Superman. But I can't said. • 
.lt1rmaine ()'Neal and 38-year­see that.:: Kemp had his best statistical old veteran Joe Kleino. 
While Davis averaged 10 season in 1999, the year of the 
The trades came right after 

points and 9.9 rebounds, mak­lockout and his second with Whitsitt returned from a safari 
ing his first All-Star team, the Cavs. He averaged a 
in Africa, and once again he 
O'Neal contributed virtually career-high 20.5 points and bagged the high-profile star 
nothing since coming out of 9.2 rebounds. 
players hfl went after. Last 
Eau Claire (S.C.) lligh School Losing took its toll, however. 
snason, Whitsitt brought 
in 1996. lie averaged just 12.3 Cleveland made the playoffsScotti<' Pippen to Portland 
minutes, 3.9 points and 3.3 just once during Kemp's three 
through a sign-and-trade with 
rebounds last season and season. And all the while,
llouston, then landed Steve 
couldn't crack the rotation Kemp was hounded for his 
Smith in a deal with Atlanta. 
playing behind forwards unwieldy contract, which will 
The revamped team came 

Wallar.e and Grant. pay him $46.S million in 2002­
10 minutes short of making 
"I just don't think he was as 03 and 200J-04. 
A perfect meeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday D.Iring 
N.D. Home Football Weekends. 
Everyone Welcome 
Live Music Fridays, 2 -6p.m. 
Grilled Burgers, Brats, and Other Specialties 
Cold Beverages & Spirits 
60" Screen TV's Fully Enclosed Tent '. (5/f.r,;,­
rt;J,, C!Jf((Jrrl.S r1J1111 
631-2000 

,---------------,
VOT£D#1 

For Your Best Tan Ever!
Iby peopleIwhoknow Get a Fun Tan! I tanning! 
I 
I 

I 
~,,11 1111 I I 
© 1985 FUN TAN, INC. 

Tan until the end of the year at FUN TAN for a ONE TIME COST of only $100. 
SIGN UP NOW! The sooner you do, the more tanning you'll get! 
AND when you bring in this coupon get 25% off our wide selection of tanning lotions' I 
272-7653 NEW University Location State Road 23 & Ironwood I I 256-9656 Corner of Grape and McKinley 291-2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironwood __J 

novelties and much more! 
Where...? 
'IJ 


Located at:
1 
CLEVELAND 
LOGAN 
CENTER 
1235 N. Eddy, South Bend IN 
Right across from Notre Dame Stadium entrance on the corner of Eddy &Angela 

When...? 

ND vs. Texas A&M Weekend Ir{. ...
,111~·-------~l 
II 
! I ' 11l'e ; /!1·c. '..tas A 'I 
: '11n ~«-J\.tii
I' ,' ~ ..,e<Oo i! 
II / //ii,, A-, 0 ,1 
,:·. ,813, : Sa1 ·stki ,'

0
' 911 , I
Y, . 912 g, 


Who...?!, zf 
Guest Signings 
-.~::----=-~::..:;.., Have your photo taken with 
1".,, h 
_l?'/ Tony Rice and many ot er ~~ ·-'im,,:-~~-:.i. ~-.. ,..., Fighting Irish football greats. ,,. *Plus they will sign your photo and ND merchandise. 
*Items must be purchased at Logan 
Fridav, Sepcemher l, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
-


(lMPUSlv11NISTRY 
Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
Texas A&M Football Weekend September 2-3, 2000 
Saturday Vigil Masses 

Basilica 30 minutes after game Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart 
Parish Crypt 6:00, 7:oo, s:oo, 9:30 & 11:00 am 

-
page 22 nie Observer . SPORTS Friday, September I, 2000 
PRO TENNIS 
Davenport ignores scoreboard in comeback victory 
. No. 2 player advances to third round of U.S. Open 
Associated Pre" 
NEW YOHK 

Tim sconiboard message was not cncour,iging. 
Lindsay l>uv11nport. se<~d11d No. 2 in tlw U.S. OpPn, winrwr of lhrt•n Crand Slam Hv1•nts in lwr carP11r. was down a set and struggling against Kim Clijstnrs, who came within fnur points of lrnating Pventual ch;im pion Sc>r1Hrn Williams here a year ago. 
Concerned? 
Not Lindsay. 
"I hadn't gotten worrind," slw said. "I would probably think about going home if I was down a brPak or sonrn­thi11g. I wasn't thinking thal Yf'l." 
/\nd she ncvPr would. 
1Javm1port 1rn!IC'd lwr garrw togPlhnr Thursday and advann'cl to tlif' third round with a 4-6, h-2. (i-2 vil'.tory ovl'r Clijst.<•rs. 
"I krtl'W it was going to bP a tough matrh." slH' said. "It 1wv1•r got quit!' to that SC!!­nario wlwn\ I was down a Sl'l and a hn·ak. rPally rlosn to losing. I think it's tough f'or any youngt>r playPr whon th<' Y · rP ahout to lw at a top playPr, Ps1wrially at a Craml Slam. to l'Pallv clns1• it out. That's prnhalil°y tlw touglwst thing Lo do." 
Slw knows that first hand. 
In 191)3. before sho was a world-class playp,r, Dawmport was 17, playing the full Crand Slam circuit for the first time, and found herself facing Gabriela Sabatini at the Open. Sabatini had won the tourna­ment just thrnn years p,arfier and still was at the top of her 
gam11. 
"I think I was up a sot and 4-3, not likn :;-I," Davenport said. "Lost in two tough sets. Probably let her off the hook. That's what happens. It's very tough your first time out there tu win the match without thinking about it. 
"I mean, you've probably workud your whole junior earner to get to that situation. When you're finally about to have your big win, I woulrl say like 80 percent of the players never continue with the win 
because it is tough to close "That's not a situation you matches out. I think you get a want to find yourself in. down little too excited and not know a set, even in the sncond sot.," how to play the points righL" she said. "Once I got that onn 
So evPn break, when she then I foll 
was in a likn the
"I.feel like I can get better. As
touch a whole trouble, long as you can get through, m at c h 
down a you never know what happens swung on 
set and 2-that, and
when you face a player later
2 in tlrn I never 
second, on in the tournament. I don't looked Davenport worry about that. " back from 
n C V e r there." thought Now. 
Lindsay Davenport
about how she must c I o s e pro tennis player try to fig­Clijstcrs ure out a had come way to against deal with Williams a year ago. higher-profile players. 
Instead. she was searching Lurking ahead in her quarter for solutions, looking for a of tho draw is defending way back. champion Serena Williams, 
seeded No. !i. Down t.lw road could be Snrnna's sister, Yr.nus, No. :{, and maylw No. I Martina llingis. 
Bef'orr. Davnnport thought about thosr. challnnges. slrn considered Thursday's rnsull. 
"I ask mysr.lf, 'Did you bnat 
a good player?"' she said. 
"'Yeah.' 
"That's all I worry about. You can play bad for thrn«! matches. all of' a suddnn wlwn you play a good playnr, your gamn can changn overnight. 
" Po r m r. , I cl o fo n l Iikn I ' m hitting thn ball wdl. I f'nel like I can get better. J\s long as you can get through, you never know what happens when you fac1! a playnr latPr on in thn tournanrnnt. I don't worry about that." 
She'll worry about that tomorrow. 
HapP.yBirthday,Dana! We miss 
you! 
love, 
Mom and Dad 

h-iday, September l, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
-
... 
THE FOLLOWING EVENTS ARE 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME 
Author Events: 
Nicholas Sparks, Class of 1988, author of three bestselling novels, will sign copies of his books on Friday, Sep. 1 from 11 :00 a.m. to noon, including the newly released paperback edition ofA Walk to 
Remember. 

Also on Friday, Sep. I from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., University of Notre Dame President Father Malloy will be signing copies of his book, Monks Reflections. 
Professor Ralph Mcinerny will be signing copies of his newly released Notre Dame mystery, The Book of Kills, on Saturday, Sep. 2 from 10:00 a.m. to 11 :30 
a.m. Mcinerny is the author of over 30 books including the popular Father Dowling mysteries. 
On Saturday, Sep. 2 the Stellaluna storybook character will appear periodically during the day ­cameras are welcome. 
Also appearing on Saturday, Sep. 2 from 10:45 a.m. to 11 :30 a.m. is Gerry Faust, to sign copies of 
The Golden Dream. 

Storytime featti'.tirig '1 reading of Stellaluna by Janell Cannon, witlicraft and sing-along on Tuesday, Sep. 5 at l l:l{la:m. 
Music Events: 
HAMMES 

On Friday,r§l~fi:~,~ 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. and 
NOTRE............9AME
~undayt$epi;~',,e~j2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m;, Pianist Emmeline S¢tt~in7;;~lass of 2003, performs. 
­
On Frida.y,;IIIJ¥;l\'.ft;pm 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. and on Sunday,<Sjp.~<~,;}(IPm l:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m, nation~!~ ~!~f~~~~p ianist Tim O'Neill, Class of 
1994, {)eu:i~tffl'~ i1liigns copies of his CDs. 
On Satt1td~~:i!~~~!., at 8:00 a.m., Bagpiper Joseph Smith, <Sl;;t$Ai~~;~fll}, performs. Also on Saturday, Sep. 2 frottiil~~III~;m. to noon., Pianist Joe Fremeau, Gl~s>~l2002, performs. ­


Acape~!,;ijij< '<;The Undertones, performs one hour' Jhe game on Saturday, Sep. 2.. 


-~ ---­
-page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September I, 2000 
PRO TENNIS 
-
Clement knocks Agassi out of U.S. Open in straight sets 
A,sociattd Press 
.... 
NEWYOBK There was no sadness in 

i\ndrc t\gassi's eyes, no regret over tlrn listless loss or his U.S. Opnn titln, no cxcusc that his thoughts wore on his cancer­stricki>n mother und sistf"r mori> than his tennis. 
/\gassi stared straight ahead, his cyns clear, his voicn firm, and gavp all the credit to l•renchman Arnaud Clement for 1rnding his rnign as champion Thursday, 6-3, 6-2. 6-4. 
"fl was just a brutal day," thP top-seeded Agussi said as he fol­lowed No. 2 Gustavo Kuerten and two-time champion Patrick Hafter to a quick nxit. 
It has been a brutal summer for i\gassi after a brilliant year. From a run of four straight Grand Slam finals and thrne titles. he stumbled to second­round (•xits in the French and 
U.S. Opens, and a stinging semi­final loss at Wimbledon. It was a summer when lw hurt his back in a car accident and learned his mother had breast cancer, just as his sister did. 
With all that, perhaps it was understandabln that thn 30­ycar-old Agassi would reveal a snns,i of pen,11nctivc on his latr.st loss. saying, "Don't b1~ too sorry," when someone sought to 
comfort him on the way lo the 
players lounge. 
Whon Agassi saw his girl­friend, Steffi Graf, minutes aftor the match, he smiled and joked a bit, performed a quick dance step with her, their hips bump­ing. and moved on to chat with other friends. 
"There are obviously things that arc clearly in play," PMry Rogers, i\gassi's best friend and managnr, said in reference to his motlrnr and sister's illness. 'Tic hasn't had the best sum­mer, and I don't think he came in twrc with the expectation that he would be able to impose his game on his opponents." 
Agassi didn't even comll close to imposing his game on the 37th-ranked Clemrmt, who had lost to him in the French and 
U.S. Opens last year in their only previous meetings. 
While Clement bounced _jaunti­ly around tlrn court, whacking 36 winners to Agassi's 19, Agassi looked leaden, his feet barnly moving, his usually quick hands moving slowly, his shots lacking pace and depth and accuracy. 
They oach made 27 unforced errors, but Clom1rnt's usually came when he went for winners. /\gassi's when he missed easy shots that he might normally makn with his eyes closed. 
"It's finding thfl balance between hitling offensively enough to control the point, but not playing too big," Agassi said. "I struggle with that. Sometimes I played too big and occasionally I just took a little bit off of it. I never found my quality pace shot that allowed me to dictate without taking too many chances. It was a 
see it, even through his wrap­around sunglasses, and so could the perplexed fans who tried futilely to pump him up. 
"Good morning!" one fan yelled out as Agassi struggled on in the late afternoon. Truly, Agassi looked half asleep. 
When asked if his heart was in it, Agassi said, "Yeah. very much." When 
little breezy down there, tough condi­ "'It was just a  asked if he was distracted at all,  
tions.  brutal day."  Im said he wasn't.  
"Once you start  When asked if his  
second-guessing your shots, your  Andre Agassi  back bothered him, he said no. If  
fee don't respond  pro tennis player  Agassi  was  hurt­ 
as well. When the  ing, emotionally or  
ball's  moving  physically, he  was  

around and your f'eet aren't keeping it to himself. adjustin?,, mistakes arc going to "Just, you know, trying to fig­happon. uru. out how to get to him. but I 
Agassi had jumped out to a 2-couldn't do it," Agassi said. "Just 0 lead in the first sot, then ho got outplayed.... You've got to simply melted in the muggy give ,pnople credit whnre credit's heat, losing eight of the next due. nine games. I !is body language, In truth, Clement played with his head drooping, his splendidly, but not spectacular­shoulders sagging, his eyes wan­ly. It was a case, this time, of dering, indicated the frustration Agassi shooting nothing but he was Feeling. Clement could blanks. 
"For sure, hu didn't play a great match touay," Clement said. "He did a lot of mistakes. I don't think about him. I just think about me. To win this match ... it's unbelicvabl!: because it's on an unbelicwable court. Maybe 15,000 persons. Evf)rybody is for him. It's my best victory in my carom·." 
Clement needed five match points before he put this onn away, but tlrnrn was mwer any real thought that. Agassi might claw his way back aft<\!' lw was broken to 5-4 in tlrn third set. 
Clement celebrated prema­turely when he hit what h,~ thought was a second-serve ncn on his second match point. only to be told the ball had clipped thn net cord. On his fourth match point, he thought he had won again with an acn. and he complained about a linnsman's call that it was out. But when the fifth match point came, Agassi simply dumped the return into tlrn net. walked to the net, shook hands and looked relieved that the ordeal was over. 

JUICY COUTURE 
m I I 
PR\D\
!fTSrYJoH&ISo,t 

• MIS§ SIXTY. IACOSTE For-r-,or-1Mo 
BCBG 

GUCCI
MAXAZRIA 
JA M I '> I' f ll '> I

* easel
\,Qll Al'f(,LI L5 



:t;ENERAL MEETI 
7:00 
NOTRE DAME ROOM MONDAY1 

-
-
TIAA-CREF provides financial solutions to 
. 

last alifetime. 
Friday, September 1, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
-
M. Soccer 
continued from page 32 
is far from inexperienced. Thr. majority of the sopho­mores logged significant play­ing time as freshmen lasl sea­son. Also, the eight freshmen joining the team arc n1garded as perhaps the best recruiting class i.n the history of Notre Dame m,~n·s soccer. 
Apple has already used this depth to his advantage in the prpsi~ason. 
"We played 19 players last weekend Iin exhibition playI. we've never been able to play that ma11y players in a game or in a weekend." 
After a day off on Saturday. tho Irish take on the host Rebels Sunday afternoon. The Rebels arc·coming off of u 1-0-1 preseason which saw them defoat Master's College 1-0 before playing to a 3-3 tic against Grand Canyon. Last season the liebels tinished 7­11-0 and p!ar,cd seventh in the Mountain Pacific Sports Fed1wation, four places bf'low New Mexico. 
Junior forward Jason Mclondcz leads the Rebel offense. Melendez tallied 
We all learn from one another. The RCIA gives you a 
eight goals and four assists last season, and already has scored twice in the two pre­season games. 
Sophomore Tuomas Talvio added five goals and four assists last year, and also has put the ball in the net once this year in a preseason game a~ainst Grand Canyon. 
The Irish counter with a defense that combines youth and experience. The team's other two tri-captains, Steve Maio and Connor LaRose, are both returning starters. They are joined by returning starter, sophomore Andreas Forstmff who is known for his intelligent play which helps him to intercept passes. 
The new man in the back is freshman Greg Martin. Like Detter, Martin is a Parade All-American and played on the 1999 Youth World Cup team. A hard-nosed player, Martin's maturity has impressed teammates this full. 
"He has taken on a role in the back that is very diftirnlt !'or a young player," said Pridmore. "He has been able to fit in right away." 
The Irish return home to opPn their home season next Wednesday againsl Bradley at Alumni Field. 

Find out more about: 
chance to walk 
•The Sacraments of Initiation 
with someone as 
BAPTISM, EUCHARIST & CONFIRMATION:
you explore your faith and find 
for unbaptized persons wanting to 
your place in the 
become a member of the Catholic Church.
Church. Join us on this adventure of faith. 
PROSPECTIVE 
•fUll COMMUNION: 
SPONSORS ARE 
for baptized persons wanting Full
WELCOME/ 
Communion in the Catholic tradition. 
(?MPUS 
-
MNISTRY 

For more info, contact: 
INFO 

Tami Schmitz 
SESSION 
@ 
631-3016 Badin Hall 

Sunday, Sept. 3 1:00 -2:00pm Keenan/Stanford Hall 
ALL c5.bamroc£gn,l{1flwa/ 
NOTRE DAME vs. Fair -~00 pm 
Come to the match andget earlyseats fort lly! 

* One dorm will win a PIZZA $ PARTY from Papa John's! 
'OAME vs. #15BYU 7:00 pm 
!h • 
TR*,, J1'4}tv!E vs. Clemson 2:00 pm 
· ltvconcert tickets! 
.( 

Go Irish! Beat the Aggies! 
~WOMEN'S
\!J SOCCER 

_., 
-
-
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, Seprember I, 2000 
NCAA FOOTBALL

-
NCAA.hands 26 Wisconsin players suspensions 
MADISON, Wis. 
Tilt' NC/\/\ susirnndr.d 26 Wisconsin l'ootball playt\rs Thursday for onr. to thrnn g-anrns !"or rPrPiving unadvr.r­tisml discounts at a shoe storn. forcing tht\ Badgers to lwm:h 11 playt>rs for llwir opener. 
Thr. I I sus1w11<l1-1Ci for tlrn No. 4 Badgt•rs' gamu with Wt\StPrll Mich ig-an on Thursday night inrlmhid start­ing n1ceivr.rs Chris Chambers and Nick Davis. cornerback Jamar f•lntdlf'r, o/'fonsiw• line­man BPn .Johnson and line­barkPr llryson Thompson. 
El0v1•11 of the 26. including Flt>tclrnr. Davis, .Johnson and CIi a111 lrn rs, WP r11 sus pt!n d r.d f'or thrnn games for rnceiving lrn,wfits of morn than $500, school officials said. 
/\nothnr 15 players. inrlud­ing running bark Michael Bnnrwtt, dnfcnsivt: tackle WPndell Bryant. cornerback Mike Echols and Thompson, wern suspenckd for nne game and ordnrNI to do I 2 hours of communily sPnicf'. 
ChamlH•n;· suspr.nsion could lw an 11spPrially tough blow to l!w Badgnrs. Tlw tPam·s IPad­ing rPcl'ivi>r from lasl s,mson was alrt1ady sidelined by a strnss frat"turt' in his right foot that was Pxp1•cted to k1iep him out until at !Past the end of S1\ ptn m b1• r. Sr h ooI offici a Is a nn1 · t s 1, r" if hn w i 11 be allowed to Sf'l'V!' tlrn susptrn­sion whilti injurPd, meaning lw rould miss morn than half the stiason. 
"I think you have trnnwn­d o u s d is a p p o in l m 11 n t. Yo u have to fp,,] for tlrnm." Wisconsin athlPtic din!etor Pat Hh:hter said. "WP foll this was nol warranted." 

The NCAA ordered all 26 players to serve the suspen­sions within the first four games of the season. The other six suspended for Thursday's game were: Delantn McGrew. George Pratt. Hyan Simmons. Chuck Smith. Stephon Warson and Scott Wille. 
The suspensions stem from reports last month that mcm­b11rs of the football and men's 

basktithall teams may havi> received special credit arrangpments at The Shon Box in Blark Earth, Wis .. that were not available to other clients. 
Another 21 players. includ­ing starling q uarlcrback Brooks Bollingnr. were not suspnndcd but were ordered to perform 24 hours or com­mun iIy service for tlrn dis­counts they receiv11d. 
Wom1rn's socc1\r play1ir Wynter Pero was suspended for two games and ordered to do 24 hours of community ser­vice. 
All will be required to repay the discounts they received. 
The school also investigated alli>gations that some ath)Ptes may have exchanged universi­ty-issued shoes for merchan­dise but found no t-widence of that so far, said Molauy Newby. vice chancellor for legal and executive affairs. 
A rnport in the Wisconsin Statn Journal dotailnd pur­chases by eight members of the Badgr.rs' Pinal Four men's bask0tba!l team and 14 play­ers from tlw Rose Bowl cham­pion football l.eam. Thn paper reported players received dis­counts of 25 percent to 40 per­cnnt and interest-free credit. 
Thn univnrsity and NCAA still have lo review llrn eligibil­ity of winter athletes, who also could race penalties. 
Tlw NCAA notified the uni­versity Monday that 81 fall athlntes would bn ineligible in various capacities. llichter said the university appealed the rinding. and the NCAA tlrnn decided to knock down tlw numlrnr of' athletes niquin•d lo snrvn suspnnsions and pay reparations to 48. 
Richter said tlrn university proposed lighter sancti()ns when they made their initial report to the NCAA, and many of the players told NCAA offi­cials they did not know they had violated any rules. 
"This was a shock to them," Richter said. 
NCAA spokesman Wally Renfro confirmed the suspen­sions but would not comment specifically on the infractions. 
Shoe Box owner Steve Schmitt said Thursday he 
talked to university officials several times about the dis­counts hn offered players. which he said are exllmdcd to all his regular cust()mers. 
Schmitt has mnn's basketball season tickets and has donat­ed money to the university in tho past. which wo.uld qualify him as a booster under NCAA rulr>s. 
Newby said the university's investigation was continuing and tho school had not mado a recommendation to the NCAA whPlhf'r the violations consti• lute a major or secondary vio­lation. But the players· trans­gressions individually were ruled to be secondary. 
If the purchases constitute a major rules violation, it would be the third such infraction within the last decade for the university. 
The wrestling program was put on probation in 1994 for improper use of' booster funds that included impermissible l,enefits to athletes, a major rules violation. 
Last year, the NCA.A found the athletic department had 
r----------------------~·
committed a major rultis I I infraction because coaches 
I I
Shorin-Ryu
and staff members received reimbursement for expenses I I from a boostnrs fund without I I
Karate 
approval from the chancellor. 
I 
That probation was scheduled •Discipline
I
to nnd in November. •Self-Defense 
Still, the NCAA Committee I •Self Confidence on Infractions did not penalize 
I •Fitness 
the univnrsity under repeat 
I
violator rules last year, partly because Wisconsin self-report­I ed the violations. 
I I I I I Register in Advance at RecSports
Recycle The 
I For More Info. Call 1-6100
Observer. 

I Demonstrati.on 
I Tuesday, September 5, Rockne Rm. 219 6:30PM I ,Z?.ec:-~ I www.nd.e<lu/~recsport
~----------------------J 

-

Pr-emium Frozen Tteats! 

Campus Shoppes 183 7 South Bend Ave. South Bend, JN 46637 (219) 271-9540 
(Just Ellsl of :-:orrc Dame) 

http:/lh<alth.rrecsil•now.cnmliu,·ogutt
-~-------------------­
-~--t\ FREE' .:::::~~
.-~e(j -'• ( I
'.~ ,~~'
,t;;,·<"', • N'''
-;::;,'--,....!_ ~-:-.-.: 
~~ ~-...:::;:­
Get a FREE regular or large cup or cone of frozen' yogurt when you buy a regular large cup or cone of frozen yogurt of equal or greater value. 
Good ocly al tklmtioa llst<d. :'iol valid ,i!h anr oih<r olfcr. s.~ i<l"lt oo.ly. w.m, COD< ,xtra. Toppina, e.x1r,. E.,pim 9/30/00 



Friday, September 1, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
-
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Wisconsin beats Western Michigan despite suspensions 
playing in his first gamA, made should be Miami's most produc­94 return yards. Leftwich, who missed most of 
-
r ---------, 
I 
10% OFF :
I 
MAIN STREET 
FOOD PURCHASE
I ~ ¦JI~......-.;. I
=-_IIIIC:=IIIElll-.-------­
(with coupon) 
I P I Z Z A I 
I I 
--,
The Best Real Pizza 
I I 
CJ & Company
I ill South Bend! I
I 

\ . \ , 2n-2926
I 
\!) I 0~· Walk-Ins
Featuring a "Full-Service" Beverage Menu 
I 

'\;0 Welcome
I Located around the corner from BW-3's 
Phone Ahead I 
HAIR AND TANNING
I 
ClOCK u0~¥7lER §QUARlE
Dine-In or Carry-Out 
I I 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS
Outdoor Patio 
3Miles North of

I I 
ND-St. Mary's

110 N. Main Street 
51400 SR 933 South Rend
I I 
HAIR CUTS $10.00 TANNING SPECIALS--NEW BEDS
I 234-2777 I 
EYEBROW WAXING

L ___________ .J 
PERMS and COLOR 


Associated Press the second-longest punt return tive season in recent years. 
in school history. In Butch Davis' five seasons at 
MADISON, Wis. Wisconsin quarterback Rrooks Miami, the Hurricanes have as 
Michael Bennett rushed for Bollinger frequently scrambled many losses (19) as they had in I 28 vards and a touchdown as but found no one open. the l 2 years before he arrived. No. 4 Wisconsin survived the Bollinger, the Big Ten freshman They also won four national 
suspension of live slarlers in a of the year last season, was 6-championships in that span. 
lackluster 19-7 victory over for-11 for 96 yards whilfl After enduring NCAA sanc­W1•stern l\1ichigan on Thursday improving to 9-0 as a slarter. tions and 31 lost scholarships night Western Michigan's wide-open between 1995 and l 997, the 
In tlw Radgers' firsl game passing offense capitalized on program has been rebuilt and sinrn Llw graduation of NCAA Fletcher's absence. Welsh, in his reloaded with talent at every ranwr rushing leader Hon first start since replacing Tim position. Dayn<!, Wisconsin's offense Lester, was 20-for-39 for 243 It showed, especially againstsl.ruggled Lo produce the yards and was intercepted once. the overmatched Cowboys. nwthodical drives oncP-led by · Wisconsin's lirst drive in the Miami scored on six of eight tlw llnismau Trophy winner. post-Dayne era ended on downs first-half possessions, including Bennett got 30 carries but when Bennett was hit for a 3-five touchdowns. 
rarely broke into the Broncos' yard l.oss by 'Jared Pike at Dorsey, a sophomore, hit defonsive backfield, and Western Michigan's 29. But line­Reggie Wayne on a pair of per­Wisconsin's passing game was backer Ben Herbert recovered a fectly thrown fade passes in the erratic. fumble moments later, and the same corner of the end zone in Hut Wisconsin's underwhelm­Hadgers scored on a 21-yard the first quarter. Dorsey also hit ing performance can't be attrib­field goal by Vitaly Pisetsky. Daryl Jones on a 23-yard pass in 
uted entirely to the suspensions. The game then descended into the second to give Miami a 34-7 Only !'our Badgers expected to a turf war, with neither team lead. play a significant amount were able to gain significant yardage. Dorsey completed 17 of 29 
suspended. Wisconsin's offense even heard passes for 248 yards, winning 
Hecf'iver Chris Chambers -a smattering of boos when it for the fourth time in as many who's injured anyway~ receiv­failed to move the ball midway starts. In his four starts, Dorsey er/kick returner Nick Davis and through the second quarter, · is 81-for-120 for 966 vards with offensive tackle Ben Johnson The Broncos trailed 10-7 at 12 TD passes and justone inter­werP the only offensive starters halftime after Welsh capped an ception, 
nut. All-American cornerback 80-yard drive with a 2-yard TD He has plenty of weapons sur­Jamar Fletcher and linebacker pass to Mobolaji Afariogun with rounding him, like Moss. Bryson Thompson were the 1:54 left in the second quarter. The speedy 5-foot-10 receiver missing defensive starters. returned a punt 77 yards late in 
Wisconsin didn't get an ollcn­the first quarter, putting the
Miami 61, McNeese State 14
sivc touchdown until a 68-yard 'Canes ahead 20-7. He picked
Ken Dorsey threw three
drive capped by Bennett's 8-up the bouncing kick at the 23,
touchdown passes and Santana
vard run around the left end cut right toward the sideline,
Moss gained 204 all-purpose
~ith 9:31 to play. Thirteen sec­turned upfield and sprinted
yards as fifth-ranked Miami
onds later, defensive end Ross untouched into the end zone. He
beat Division I-AA McNeese
Kolodziej sacked Broncos quar­got two key blocks on the play,
State.
terback Jeff Welsh in the end one from Andre King and anoth­
The Hurricanes totaled 630
zorni for a safety. er from Al Blades.
yards, most of it coming in the
Josh Ilunt scored on an 89-Moss added a 7 5 yard run on
first half. Dorsey, Moss and
yard punt return in the second an end around, skirting outside 
manv other starters sat out
quarter for the BadgPrs, ,vho the defense and cutting back
mucli of the second half while
enterml the season with the across the field for the score.
their backups picked up playing
highest prnseason ranking in Moss finished with 35 yards
time.
school history. Hunt, a junior receiving, 7 5 yards rushing and
It was a good start to what 
!Io sat out the second half with a sore right foot. 
The Cowboys (0-1) answered Miami's opening-drive score with a ninA play, 65-yard drive that they kept alive by convert­ing a fourth-and-3 play at the Hurricanes' 36. Jpssic Burton scored two plays later, breaking three tackles en route to 21­yard run. 
McNeose State added a late touchdown, converting a Miami turnover into a 27-yard scoring pass from Slade Nagle to .Jermaine Martin. The Cowboys tallied 409 yards. 
Hut they just couldn't stop Miami. 
The 'Canes added two late touchdowns. Ethnic Sands con­nected with Andre Johnson on a 32-yard pass play, and Clinton Portis outran the defense 82 yards for the final score. 
Marshall 63, 
SE Missouri State 7 
Chanston Rodgers ran for three touchdowns and Byron Leftwich threw for two more in their first starts as Marshall beat Division I-AA Southeast Missouri State. 
The sophomores helped Marshall run its winning streaks to 32 overall and 18 straight at home, both tops in Division I-A 
Marshall compiled 573 yards in total offense and held the Indians scoreless over the final three quarters. 
Rodgers, returning from a torn knee ligament suffered in spring practice, scored on sec­ond-quarter runs of 2 and 7 yards and added a 5-yarder in the third period. He had only 25 yards rushing on seven carries as part of Marshall's three-back rotation, 
last season with injuries and received a medical redshirt, took over this year for Heisman Trophy finalist Chad Pennington. Leftwich went 13­of-20 for 205 yards before sit­ting out most of the second half. 
The 63 points were the most scored by Marshall in an opener since a 71-7 victory over Morehead State in 1994, It was the most allowed by Southeast Missouri since it moved up from Division II in 1991. 
The game was little more than a tuneup for Marshall as it pre­pares for non-conference games at Michigan State and North Carolina. 
It marked the debut of Southeast Missouri coach Tim Billings, a Marshall assistant the past 10 years and its defensive coordinator last season, when the Herd ranked second in the nation in fewest points allowed at 10 per game. 
Billings used those same schemes Thursday and they worked for awhile. The game was tied at 7 until midway through the second quarter when Rodgers and Leftwich helped Marshall score on its final three drives for a 28-7 halftime lead. 
Early in the second half, Southeast Missouri backup punter Nick Reggio put his knee to the ground while fielding a low snap at his 5-yard line. Marshall took over and Rodgers scored two plays later for a 35-7 lead. 
On Marshall's next possession, Lanier Washington returned a punt 33 yards to the Southeast Missouri 10, setting up Ernest Pitts' 1-yard TD run for a 42-7 lead, 
Southeast Missouri was held to 259 total yards. 

-
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September I, 2000 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish start season with Shamrock Invitational 
"May the Blessed Mother bless this  "This CD reaches out to ND friends,  "You have much to be proud of in this  
work and all who enjoy it. "  family, and/ans ofall ages."  musical endeavor."  
Fr. Ted Hesburgh, C.S.C.  Jim O'Connor  Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S.C.  
Notre Dame President Emeritus  Manager, Hammes ND Bookstore  Vice President for Student Affairs  
A NOTRE DAME  I  

"I am an ND parent and have just "This one should be a big hit returned from seeing my two sons with the ND crowd during the get settled for another year. I upcoming football season!" believe that you haev truly cap­
tured the Spirit Our Lady s Fr. Bill Beauchamp, C.S.C University. Thanks!" Executive Vice President -The Huebners Emeritus Winston-Salem, NC ND Parents 

winners, including five starters and  
- ByRACHAELPROTZMAN  also gains five new freshmen.  
Spom Writer  "Our starting lineup looks like it's  
going to be all returners so that's  
Irish volleyball kicks off the season  good for us. We also have a lot of  
today as it faces Fairfield in game  depth and versatility which seem to  
two of the 2000 Shamrock  be our strengths," said co-captain  
Invitational Tournament in the Joyce  Girton.  
Center.  Friday's match will mark the sec­ 
Notre Dame will  ond meeting between Fairfield and  
b11 participating in  Notre Dame with the Stags having the  
the Shamrock  upperhand defeating the Irish in  
Invitational for  1998 14-16, 15-13, 8-15, 15-4 and  
the fourth straight  15-17. Fairfield combined for a 30­ 
year. The Irish  win season last year while gaining  
finished second  the Metro Atlantic Athletic  
last year behind  Conference title.  
Pacific and have  "Fairfield's a revenge match from  
an overall 14-3 Girton  two years ago for those of us who  
Shamrock record  were here," said Girton.  
in its six appearances.  On Saturday Notre Dame continues  
Senior Denise Boylan led the Irish  tournament play as they face No. 15  
in last year's tournament, being  Brigham Young University at 7 p.m.  
named to the 1999 Shamrock all­ BYU has a two-match advantage over  
tournament toam. Boylan also earned  the Irish with a 12-15, 7-15 and 7-15  
honors this year as the 2000 Big East  success last year.  
preseason player of the year, while  Clemson looks to gain the upper­ 
fellow senior Christi Girton joined her  hand Sunday as· it faces Notre Dame.  
on Urn prcseason all-Big East team.  The Tigers have played against the  
The Irish finished 20-9 overall last  Irish twice, taking their last match in  
season while grabbing the regular  three games in 1999.  
season conference title with an 11-0  "We are going to go out and play  
record in Big East play. The Irish  well and take care of things on our  
controlled their home court last sea­ side," Girton said. "We are just going  
son, finishing with a .Joyce Center  to play the way we know how and the  
record of 10-2. Since 1991 Irish vol­ games will take care of themselves."  
leyball has racked up 108 wins out of  The Irish will play against Fairfield  
the 124 home matches for an out­ at 4 p.m. in game two of the  
standing homecourt advantage.  Shamrock Invitational followed  
Notre Dame returns 10 monogram  immediately by the football pep rally.  

Correction: The tryout tennis tournament will be Monday,September 4, at 4 p.m. 

.
·.·.;;z, i~ 

Senior setter Denise Boylan won Big East preseason player of the year this sea­son, and was joined on the preseason all-Big East team by teammate Christi Girton. The Irish hope to compete for the Big East Championship. 
JOHN DAILY/The Observer 

,-------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, September l, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
Volleyball 
continued from page 32 
Saint Mary's will face its other tough competition of the weekend on Saturday, wlHrn the women line up against Wittenberg College at 9 a.m. Wittenberg finished the 1999 season with an 18­12 record. 
"We've played well against WittPnbcrg. Lut things may change this year because our lnam is so young,'' Butcko said. "Wittenberg will be another tough rnat('h." 
The Belles finish off two morn matclrns on Saturday before heading horn!'. Saint t\lary's will play Carthage and /\quinas Saturday afternoon. 
Carthage came out on top 
when the two teams met last we're going to play our best year, winning tho game 3-1. and really work on our skills." The Belles dropped the Because her team is so matches 17-19, 12-15, and young, Schroeder-Riek has 11-15. This season's match been working on the basics at 
promises to be a  practices.  
close one. Saint Mary's  "We've really been  The women, who have  
has not played Division II school Aquinas  .focusing on defense as well."  only had one day off since pre­ 
prrviously.  .  s  e  a  s o n  
The winner of  Victoria Butcko  practice  
the tournament  senior  began, have  

will be decided by the team with thP best record after live games. 
The Belles are looking for­ward to this weekend's tour­nament. 
"We are all really excited for this weekend," Butcko said. "This is our onlv overnight tournament so 
been focus­ing on solid passes, 

agressive net play and good passing. 
"We've rPa!ly been focusing. on defense as well," Rutcko said. "We don't have any big blockers this vear, so that's a main area to iook at." 
The extensiv~1 practices seem to be paying off follow­ing a successful scrimage against Lake Michigan College on Wednesday. Although they did not keep 

score, Saint Mary's consid­ered its performaneo on Wednesday to be a victory. 
"We played very well on Wednesday," Butcko said. "Wo are way ahead of where we thought we'd be at this point in the season." 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Michigan starts new 
quarterback Navarre 
-
Associated Press 
At first glance. the situation at Michigan has disaster written all over it. 
.John Navarre. a redshirt freshman who has never taken a snap in a college game, will start the Wolverines' season­opener against Bowling Green on Saturday. He was pushed into the quarterback's job last week after Drew Henson broke his right foot. 
Still, coach Lloyd Carr has been in this situation before. The results that time were dra­matic. 
In 1995, Carr's first season after Gary Moeller was forced to resign, The Wolverines opened with another untested quarterback. It wasn't pretty, but it wasn't a train wreck. either. 
Michigan trailed Virginia 17 -0 with 12 minutes remaining, but Scott Dreisbach brought the Wolverines back. His touch­down pass on the final play of the game lifted Michigan to an 18-17 victory. 
"Dreisbach was the last red­shirt freshman to start for us," Carr recalled. "He didn't play very well for three quarters. But he certainly finished like a champion." 
This was supposed to have been Henson's day. The talent­
•
ed two-sport star, who plays professional baseball in the summer, paid his dues as Tom Brady's understudy the past two years. Henson passed for 800 yards and six touchdowns as the backup. 
Henson's potential, coupled with many returning offensive players from· a team that went 10-2 with an Orange Bowl win over Alabama last season, earned the Wolverines a No. 6 ranking in this week's AP poll. 
It will be Navarre's job to hold the fort until Henson returns. A tall order, to be sure. 

THE SEMINAR 
• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia, October 15-21, 2000 

• 
One credit Theology co'urse 

• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Serrrinar are encouraged to appply as Site Coordinators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 


The Appalachia Seminar du~ng Fall and Spring break presents ~ unique service­learning opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites in Appalachia which focus on issues concerning rural health care; the environment, women, children, and housing construction. Through hands on work and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the· area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces·that influence the Appalachian people. 
APPLICATIONS Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Thursday, September 7, 2000 10:00 am. $40 deposit with application 
(non-refundable if accepted) 
INFORMATION NIGHT 
Monday, September 4, 7:30-8:00 pm @ CSC 
FURTHER INFOR.lVIATION 
Steve Recupero. Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 634-1217 Allison Reilly. Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 243-1-842 Center for Social Concerns, 63 1-5293 
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September I, 2000 
-----~--_-___---::_--~---------==================================================================-=====-======================== 
WOMEN's GOLF 

Belles strike into action Saturday 
-
Bv STEPHANIE 
R}DWANSKI 
Spun, \X'rim 
Tlw Sui11L :\l11ry's golf ll'am llfWllS its SPUSOIJ this Saturday at LhP FPrris Staw UnivPrsitv tourna­nwnt at 1-.atkP c;,;1rcounm. 
Tlw lfo!IPs ar(' n'turning s«vl'n nwmlwrs or last yPar's 1.Pam who f'inislwd tlw I 1J<J<) spason with a

• 
strong third phwP finish in the Ml!\A. 
Thi' St\Vnn rt!tt1r11ing playPrs and thn•P f'nish­mun goll'Prs will Ill' com­peting 11gainsl sonw of tlw top golfers in the ar<',t. Saint Mary's will ran, tough compl'tition l'rom Tri-SlalP, Ferris Slate Univnrsity, Grant Valley State>, Aquinas, Ashland. Dayton. Dnpaw. Find](ly, Indianapolis. I.nu is Cnivcrsily. l\lanchestl'r, N,d,raska-Omaha, North 
Wnod and UnivPrsity of 
Saini Frauds. Although all the teams tlw Division III B!\l!Ps f'acti art• Division I or 
II. lwad coach Theresa Pekarek believes her team has a chance to come out in a top position in this two-day tournament. 
"I have no certain expec­tation. but I think this team will rnally surprise its com­pt\titors," she said. 
The Belles will look to 

nxperiencn from senior raptain Kyi<' Veltri and lPam lnader Natali<' Cook. Cook. a returning senior, was na111Pd to second tl•mn All-MIAA last season. 
llw Bellns have a good chann• in this competitionir they capitalize Oil tl1cir short game. PekarPk wants the tPam to be able to im11rovP its putting, chip­ping and bunker play. 
"Wp'vc rnallv IJPcn focus­ing on our short gamn," Pnkarnk said. "A good short .ramn can win a matd1. 
With the short game goal lwing nwt, S11int Mary's could bP strong cornpnti­tion. 
Pekarr:k tl<'lievl's. "win­ning is not out of' the ques­tion. It can be done and we are capable of a first or second place." 
PekarPk is looking to this tournament as the begin­ning or a succ('ssl'ul season. 
"We finished third last 
year," slw said. "And I 
think we have: a very good chance of finishing in the top two in thl' !\11;\J\ this year." 
The Belles only finished six strokes out of second place last year. 
Saint Mary's will begin conference play at their home match at Brookwood Golf Course on Sept. 14 at noon. 

W.Soccer 
continued from page 32 
scornd six goals. 
Waldrum knows that his squad will have lim­itl'd chances against a Tulsa tnam that has yt>t to yirld a goal. IIP strPsscs that his tnam must convnrt the chances it gets on Friday night. 
"Wp rwml to do a bnttl'r job around th,• goal. W11 rnally do," hr said. 
.Junior Mnlissa McCormick and sophonwn• .Julie Twt'llman -tlrn l lurricanes' bnst -will lead tlw thrust against tlw Irish. 
S<mior star !\11110 Makinnn will do hnr bnsl to prPvont an Irish loss. Artnr tallying orw goal in addition lo handing out two assists, MakirH'n already looks to bn in midsnason l'orm. 
Waldrum insists tlwrn is no sPnlimontalitv on his part as lrn battlPs his f'ornwr tnam. but tiwr<' arn other ties b,1twPen Tulsa and Notrn llanw. Assista11t coach Amy falwards play1~cl al Tulsa and limn 1·oaclwcl thnn• from I <J1J:, to 1998. 
"Tlwrn might Im a bit. morn motivation !'or J\my." hn said. "Slw still has con11nclions tlwn• and still knows a lot of' tlw girls lhf'n'." 
The Irish will get litllc rest bdorn tlwy hngin Big East Confornnc.n play against lhn Lady Friars Sunday al'ttm10on at Alumni Finld. 
Proviclnncn is off lo a 2-1 start but play<'d poorly in a 4-0 loss to Conrrndicut narlinr i11 tlw week. Waldnrm is unsurn ol' what lo cx1wrl. 
"Thny'rn (l'rovid(1nce) onn of' tlw tnams W<' didn't gnl a chancti to play last ynar," Im said. "W('. do11't havti nnwh lo go on other than stats." 
Evr.n with th(1 limilnd inl"ormalion lw has. Waldrum bolinvcs that ProvidPncc is a thrnat to his Notrn Dame squad. 
With an attack anchornd by junior forward Mary-Francos Monron, the Lady Friars boast a potent offnnsn that will havn a young untestnd Irish dnl'Pnse on its toes. 
Youth is a concern for Walclrum, who hopes that his team hr.comes morn cohnrnnl as tlw season progresses. 
"Hight now we aw a bit young and irrnxpPri­encr.d," Waldrum acknowledgml. "Wn'rn still trying lo lit the pieces togetlrnr. We'rn just hop­ing to play well and get the confimmcn schmlulc olT to a good start." 


Arth~r Andersen would like to welcome the students of the University of Notre Dame & St. Mary's College to a new year of learning and advancement. We hope you made the best of your summer like the following students who took advantage of 
everything Arthur Andersen has to offer.  
Travis J. Alexander  -Chicago  Kellie A. Kane -Cleveland  Amanda C. Sales -Chicago  
Christopher B. Anderson -.Pittsburgh  Patrick j_ McGrath -Boston  Garett S. Skiba -Chicago  
John J. Barsic -Pittsburgh  Angela-Michell Patrizio -Ft. Lauderdale  Joseph S. Soviero  -New York·  
Trisha A. Bollard -Denver  Brett J. Perkins -Chicago  Jennifer M. Stirk -Chicago  
Kathleen Coates  -Chicago  Charlie Prisco -Chicago  Kate M. Tucker -Chicago  
Kirt A. Hartman • Chicago  Meghan M. Rogers -Chicago  Nicole T. Turnipseed -Chicago  
Michael P. Heinz -Chicago  Joseph M. Rutledge -Cleveland  Katherine M. Utz -Chicago  

If you are interested in a career at Arthur Andersen email your resume to the Notre Dame Recruiting Team at chi-campus_recruiting@us.arthurandersen.com. Or fax: 312-462-4369. 
Assurance • Business Consulting • Corporate Finance • eBusiness • Human Capital • Legal Services • Outsourcing • Risk Consulting • Tax Services' 
Note: The services offered in particular areas may depend on local regulations. In some loca­tions. legal and/or ta• services are pro'lided by Andersen Legal, lhe international network or law fim1s that Is asS-Ociated with Andersen Worldwide SC. 
t;I Arthur And,irsen refers to the U.S. firm o! Arthur Andersen LLP and other members of the Arthur A111:Jersen glObal cllenl service netwOtk. C2000 Arthur Andersen. All rights reserved. EOE. ARTHURANDERSEN 
Friday, September l, 2000  The Observer . TODAY  page 31  
_::,.  
FOURTH AND INCHES  TOM KEELEY  THINGS COULD BE WORSE  TYLER WHATELY  

Fox TROT 
J 

'13 HOURS UNTIL SCHOOL ON THE WALL ... 
.., 


CROSSWORD 
BILL AMEND 


.I 


~
J 

JASON, TH\S q3 HoURS UNTIL 
I'LL ACE EVERY TEST, 
q2,qcn STARTED 

SCHOOL••• 
FOR 1 AM THE BEST... ! HOVR'S GETTING oLt> I j UNTIL !o.003 HOURS A(;o, ! SCHOOL 
~ ON THE r.:==:::.il 
WALL... 
I 

Every Saturday philosophers debate, "What came first the tailgater or the football game." 
-------------=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=---=---=--=---=---=--=---=---=---=---=--=---=---=--=---=--=---=---=--=--=---=--=---=---=--=---=--=---=---=--=--=---=--=---=---=--=---=---=--=---=--=---=---=--=---=---=--=---=---=--=---=--=---=---=--=---=---=--=---=---=--=---=--=---=---=---=---=---=--=---=--=---=---=--=---=---=---=---=--=--=---=--=---=---=---=---=---=---=---=--=--=---=--=---=---=--= 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

51 "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn" woman Nolan 
53 They may be odd 
55 This puzzle's subject, born 7/21/20 
59 Press 60 "Semper Fidelis" 
composer 61 No. 2 62 Second starter 63 Not so new 64 Result of a gas 
shortage 65 Load 66 Young dragonfly 67 Support system? 
DOWN 
1 Curves 2 "Very well" 3 Mrs. Marcos 4 Shooting_ 5 Czech, e.g. 6 One with big 
ears 7 Marine birds 8 Six Russian 
czars and grand dukes 
9 Instruments seldom seen in orchestras 
10 Oodles 11 Ration out 
13 55-Across has played many of these 

Puzzle by Ellzabeth C. Gorski 

21 Auto amenities 40 55-Across has 
25 1970's fad played many of these
29 Pointer's cry 43 Holder of 1,093 
30 Hightails it 

patents 31 Dolts 
45 He's a Wonder 33 Bell sound 
46 On 34 Madame 
HOROSCOPE 

Happy Birthday: You will have no problem attracting attention. Your col­orful way of explaining yourself and the projects you believe in will lead to all the support you need. Your strong position may be demanding, but will al.so bring you the results you' re look­ing for. The opportunities you receive this year will prove to be quite excit­ing and prosperous. Your numbers: 11, 19, 27, 32, 38, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will get along surprisingly well with others today. It's a good time to sign legal documents or contracts. A resi­dential move will be beneficial for your whole family. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your mate will be upset if you haven't given him or her enough attention. Take time to do something special for him or her. You won't regret it when you see what is offered in return. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can expect someone to say something if you try to exaggerate. Don't make rash statements or say that you'll do something you have no intention of doing. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your
47 Shows fear 

creative drive should help you finish 
50 Capri, for one 

some of the projects you've been working on for some time. You will be praised for your ability to work in 
52 In any way 
54 Winter blanket 
such fine and intricate detail. 000 
56 A6 or TT 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Re-evalu­ate your own motives. To judge oth­ers without taking a good look in the 
57 Not in harbor 
58Wit 

mirror will not help them or you. 
ACROSS 
1 Tag sale tag 
5 Arab patriarch 10 Crumpled 14 20-0 win, e.g. 15 Little wriggler 
16 Lena of "Havana" 17 Good buddy 18 1950's sitcom star 19 Alliance 
20 With 37-Across, what the music critic said about 55-Across? 
22 Stag 23 Pillow material 24 Drench 26 Kind of service 27 Union _: Abbr. 
.28 Nicholas of_, patron saint of mariners and thieves 32 Drug 34 Electrify 36 Things that help 
people to carry on? 37 See 20-Across 40 Phlebitis targets 41 Salt 42 White Rabbit's cry 44 Opp. of legato, in music 45 Idled 48 Photo 
49 High-tech program, for short 

Your overpowering presence will
Karenina 
drive away the ones you love. 000

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle
35 New York, e.g., 

are available by touch-tone phone: 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your intuition is telling you not to trust people with your personal secrets. Rumor has it that you should have followed your gut feelings. Trouble is brewing and it's time you put an end 
toit.000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will be emotional regarding joint finances. Don't lend or borrow money or pos­sessions and you won't have any problems. A tight budget is necessary if you are going to get out of debt. 
00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be jealous if your partner is spending too much time with friends. Have patience and win back his or her interest by staying busy with your own interests. 00 
SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Secret affairs are likely, but they may damage your reputation if you aren't discreet. Try to keep your feelings to yourself and hope the person you're seeing will be quiet, too. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Don't reveal anything about your per­sonal life that could be used against you. It is best to listen for the time being. Drastic financial losses are like­lyif you lend money. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Taking drastic measures will not help if you have a problem with your mate. Talk to someone you respect and ask his or her opinion regarding your dilemma. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take a trip that will help you understand the nature of your business better. Work can be rewarding if you visit clients and get to know them. Obser­vation can be your greatest teacher. 
000 
to Henri 

Birthday Baby: You have the wherewithal to move in many different direc­
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
tions. Good sound moral ethics must be enforced at a young age in order for 
37 Time-related 

Annual subscriptions are available for the 
you to make the most positive gains. You will have no trouble getting the atten­
38 Blade sharpener best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
tion you seek, but if you choose to go about it the wrong way, you will get 39 Author LeShan years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
something you didn't bargain for. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, euge­nialasLcom, astromate.com.) 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name Address-----------~-------­City _______ State---~ Zip______ 



Luck of the Irish 
The Notre Dame volleyball team hosts Fairjleld. BYU and Clemson in the Shamrock Invitational in £he Joyce Center. 
PORTS 
page 28 
O
THE 

page 32 BSERVER Friday, September 1, 2000 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Nation's No. 4 team preps for home opener 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports 'I{'ritcr 
.. 
Tho action at Alumni Field kicks into full gmtr Lhis week­end for lhP fourth-rankt~d Notre Dame women's soccer team. 
t\ftiir whipping the University of' Detroit (1-0 in the season opener. the Irish anticipate mud1 stPrner competition from tlrn Coldnn I lurricanes of Tulsa 
.... and the Lady Friars of ProvidPncn. 
The Goldm1 llurricanns come blowing into South Bend with its best start in seven years. Tlw Golcfon Hurrica1111 defoatml Oklahoma and Oklahoma StatP to win the Oklahoma Shootout. 
Irish !mad coach Randv Waldrum, who coached a't Tulsa. is leery of the team. 
"Thny'vn benn a real solid team over the yPars," he noted. .. "They're good enough to beat you if you're not ready. To be honest I'm a bit concerned." On paper, the match-up looks to favor the Irish heavily, but the Golden llurricanes could strike back if given the right opportunity. Walclrum hopes to strike narly and prnvnnt that situa­tion. "Wn n1ind to convert our chances better than last weBk. If we do that we'll be in good shape," he said. During last's week win over Detroit, the Notre Dame out shot Detroit 49-2, but only 
see W. SOCCER/page 30 

MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish begin season beneath Las Vegas lights 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Wrircr 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team plays under the bright lights of Las Vegas this weekend as it opens the 2000 season at the VNLV F i 1 a / Snickers R e b e I Classic. The Irish take on 
N e w 
Mexico tonight at 9 
p.m. and host Nevada-Las Vegas at noon on Sunday. 
First-year head coach, Chris Apple, is optimistic heading into the tournament. 


"We've never played either of the teams," he said, "We expect to go out and win the tournament, though. That is our goal and that is our expec­tation." 
The Irish face their first test tonight against the Lobos of New Mexico. New Mexico is coming off a 1999 campaign that saw the team finish third in the Mountain Pacific Sports Federation with an overall record of 9-8-1. 
The Lobos rely on an experi­enced defensive backfield. Seniors George Creamer, flank Schwyzer and team captain Alan Watson combine to chal­lenge the Irish offense. The Lobos' main offensive weapon is senior forward Ty Hibbert. Hilbert led the team in scoring last season despite logging only 1,318 minutes due to a variety of injuries. 
New Mexico is coming off a loss in their only preseason game falling to Colorado­Colorado Springs on August 26, 3-1. 
The Irish bring in a revamped offense to challenge the Lobos. Returning sopho­more Erich Braun was named the Big East Rookie of the Year in 1999 after leading the Irish in scoring with 24 points on nine goals. Braun is coming off a preseason hamstring injury, but is expected to take the field in Las Vegas. Senior tri-cap­tain Dustin Pridmore ranked fourth on the team in scoring last season. 
The biggest change from last season on the offensive end is a group of talented freshmen. Following the loss of Andrew Aris and Alan Lyskawa to graduation, the team found itself without its number two and three scorers, respectively from last season. 
Enter a talented group of freshmen, who already have accounted for three of the five goals the Irish scored in win­ning two of three preseason games. Two of those three goals were scored by freshman Justin Detter. Detter, a Parade High School All-American last season, traveled with the National Team at Bradenton Academy. 
Detter also assisted on two more preseason goals, one to sophomore Justin Ratcliffe and the other to classmate Devon Prescod. 
Although more than half of the team is underclassmen, it 
see M. SOCCER/page 25 

VOLLEYBALL 
Youthful Belles jump into action 
By KATIE McVOY Assisrant Spom Editor 
Tlrn young Bolins' vollnyball team. under the direction of head coach .luli<i Schroeder­Biek, is looking to get its feet wet at tho Alma Tournament this weekend. 
Sa.int Mary's will opnn its season today at 5 p.m. against Alma Collego and play four other games during tlrn Friday/Saturday tourna­ment. With only four return­ing memlrnrs, the team is looking to bocome a colwsivo unit. 
"We really want to uso this tournament to gel as a team and get to know each other bocausc wn are so young," said sonior Victoria Butcko. 
"These are very int<dligent women who are playing for tho lovo of tho gamo," Schroeder-Bick said. "Thny can learn to work wnll together." 
Schroeder-Bink returns to Saint Mary's after taking four seasons off to stay homo with her daughter. Tim women on the team arc looking for hor to bring focus to the team. 
"She's very goal oriented," senior Angie Meyers said. "She makes sure we focus on our goals." 
Those goals will be impor­tant in getting the Belles off to a good star_t this weekend. 
"We really want to improve, stay intense on the court and gel as a team," Meyers said. 
Saint Mary's, after finishing last season with a 17-14 overall record and a 5-3 MIAA record, will face the 16-16, 4-4 Alma Scots in the season opener. The Scots fin­ished in a tie for fourth place with Kalamazoo College, right behind Saint Mary's. The Belles are looking for good competition from the Scotts. 
"Alma has always been a pretty solid team, so it will be a tough match," Butcko said, 
Saint Mary's had the upper hand in last year's encounter with Alma, winning 15-8, 15­8, 15-7. 
After a short break, the Belles will face off against the Spring Arbor Cougars at 8 p.m. tonight. 
"We've never played Spring 

Arbor before, so  we  don't  
know  what  to  expect,"  
Butcko said.  

sec VOLLEYBALL/page 29 

Volleyball vs. New Mexico Volleyball vs. Fairfidd Today, 9 p.m. at Alma Tournament
SPORTS ~ w ttJ 
Cross Country 

Today, 4 p.m. rriday-Sarurday 
at Valparaiso Inv.
ATA 

,~, ~cpr. 8, TRA
'.ff 
vs. Tulsa /:,,.. -,.,, vs. Texas A&M ,jt.'1C vs. Alma Today, 7:30 p.m. ,!_ .,,. Saturday, 12 p.m. Sept. 4, 4 p.m.
GLANCE • 

r 
pagc2 
gallle hype 

"We've been licking our chops waiting for this season to kick around."
Kurt Vollers right tackle 

"We lost our laslfou.r games ... that :<o; not acceptable here al Notre Dame." 

Bob Davie Irish head coach 

"We'll put NotreJJame back where 
it's supposed to be." 
Arnaz Battle quarterback 

"There is more 
uncertainty 
here than there has been in a long time." 


R.C. Slocum Aggie head coach 
--. -------...... --­
Friday, September 1, 2000

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
A&M game gets personal for Notre Dame 
By KERRY SMITH Sports Editor 

When two teams do not compete regularly, it's usually hard to start a rivalry. 
Notre Dame and Texas A&M have met only throe times in their programs' histories, but personal ties on both sides make Saturday's season open­er as competitive as any heat­ed rivalry. 
Twenty players on the Irish roster hail from Texas, and seven attended high school with Texas A&M players. lrL'>h head coach Bob Davie spent nine years eoaching hern1ath Aggie head coach H.C. Slocum. 
"It is a different kind of game playing against someone you may consider your best friend," said Davie. "But I think both of' us have been in this profession long enough and both of us plan on being i!l this profe~sion fur a long time to come. 
Saturday's season opener is not only an opportunity for friends to take opposite sides or the field, but, more impor­tantly, it's a chance for Davie and the Irish to prove they are more competitive than last year's 5-7 record shows. 
Junior quarterback Arnaz Battle will take the helm for the Irish on offense. Battle paid his dues for two years as Jarious Jackson's understudy and is ready to lead an offense tailored to his strengths. 
"I think the guys are fired up. We are a lot closer this year and we're all in this 

JOHN DAILY/The Observer 

The Irish, shown here in their 23-13 loss to Michigan State last season, are primed to 
avenge their 1999 5-7 season beginning with rlval Texas A&M. 
together," said Battle. season, switching from a two­Joey Hilbold and Matt McNc~ Notre Dame's aerial attack end tackle set-up to one fea­will rotate on kicking duties. will rely on top returning turing two ends, a tackle and Saturday's game against the receiver Joey Gcthcrall. His 35 a nose guard. Davie hopes this Aggies begins an uphill battle catches in 1999 make him a adjustment will improve on for the Irish as Notre Dame is potent offensive threat. Tight last season's coverage, but slated to take on Nebraska, ends Jabari Holloway and Dan knows only time will tell. Purdue, Michigan State and O'Leary will also be go-to Anthony Denman and Hocky Stanford in coming weeks, but players Saturday. The Irish Boiman return as starting Davie's squad knows better plan to balance Battle's throw­linebackers for the Irish, while than to look past their opener. ing game with a diversified seniors Tony Driver and Brock "I can't help but notice our running attack supplied by the Williams, both coming off of schedule, but our team is trio of Tony Fisher, Terrence suspensions, will anchor the focused on A&M," said Davie. Howard and Julius Jones. secondary. "A&M is such a good oppo­
The Irish coaching staff The Irish special teams unit nent. With all those personal made some changes to its has been competitive within ties, we don't have the excuse defensive strategy in the off-itself. David Miller, Nick Setta, of overlooking A&M." 


The Castle of Flags 
GO IRISH!!!! 
FLAGS INTERNATIONAL 
10845 McKinley Highway Osceola, Indiana 46561 Telephone: 219-6 7 4-5 I 2 5 Visit us on the web at www.flagl.net 
Widest selection of Notre Dame flags, banners, and related items in the country. 10% discount for stu, dents, faculty and staff with ND photo ID. 
Over 70 varieties of U.S. flags, states and U.S. territories; international flags from around the world. 
"the most popular# on campus" 271-1177 Notre Dame 233-PAPA Saint Mary's 
f"GAME DAYSPECtAT"I
r1L~a7,, Now Hiring!! 
I Topping I I 1 large, 1 Topping I I $8.99 OR I I I Visa/Mastercard Accepted 
Breadsticks 
2 Large, 2 2 Li/er 
Monday-Thursday 11 am -1 am
I Topping $13.00 I I $12. 99 IL ___ .J L ___ .J Friday-Saturday 11 am -3 am 
rM=g~S~ia,, r =,1/ySpecial 7 Sunday Noon -1 am 
I 
I I large, 2 Topping I I I Large w/Works I I and 4 Cans of I I I Large, 2 Topping I Coco-Colo Classic $17.99 or s10. 99 I I f:xfra large $20. 99 IL ___ .J L ___ .J 
r'iat:1JigN Specl:;ii r---, 
I 9pm -1 am I I Grand Papa I I Large One I I 1 Extra Large, I Topping I 2 Toppings II $7.99 I $10. 99 
L ___ .J 

L---.J 
Voted "Best Delivered Pizza"• 2000 Michiana Now "Best of" Contest 

Friday, September 1, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Battle steps out from Jackson's shadow 
. Junior starter ready to create his own legacy 
By TIM CASEY A~siscam Sporrs Editor 

Battle 

Arnaz Battle is no longer just Arnaz Battle. 
position: quarterback
He is now Ar-nez, Ar-naz. No. 3, Battle, "the quarter­year:junior back". "Jarious's successor" awards: Parade prep All­and "the guy who can run but 
American, rated 39th best
can't pass." Alumni, subway 
player nationally by The
alumni and non-alumni all have preconceived opinions of Sporting News, USA Today the 11th starting Irish quarter­honorable mention All­back since 1985. Ile has more America pick, third-team aliases than Prince -or is it 
All-South quarterback by
The Artist? 
Fox Sports South
When the 6-foot-1 inch, 218­pound junior jogs onto the notables: backed up Jarious Notre Dame Stadium field in Jackson his first two sea­tomorrow's season opener 
sons, had 74-yard TD run 
against Texas A&M, the entire 
in Kansas game in z999.
college football world's eyes will be focused on the humble, quiet kid from Shreveport, La. 
If he throws touchdowns, man at C.E. Byrd High School avoids tacklers, runs over line­before becoming a full-time sig­backers and leads the Irish to nal caller as a sophomore. victories, he will be adored by "We were a very untalented 
fans, media and sponsors. team," Battle said. "Most of [the 
If he throws interceptions. offense] was just bootlegs, roll­pitches errantly on the option, outs and belly options. It was is chased down by defensive like backyard ball." linemen and leads the Irish in Despite the lack of individual defeat, he will be constantly stars, Battle led Byrd to a 10-0 criticized by the same triumvi­record as a junior, then a 9-2 rate. mark a year later. He account­
All for tossing and running ed for over 4,500 total yards in with an oblong shaped pigskin. his three years as Byrd won All for being the quarterback at two district and conference 
Notre Dame. championships. 
"I never thought I'd be here," Battle's high school heroics Battle said. "I envisioned caught the attention of many myself as probably playing at a major programs. Nebraska, southern school, an Arkansas Tennessee, Georgia and Texas or a Mississippi State or some­A&M were among Battle's final 
"I probably knew 70 percent leadership role," said backup
where like that." five choices in the winter of 
of the offense and that was Adjusting as leader quarterback Gary Godsey. "You 
1997. 
mainly running plays,"Battle The interview requests are can tell, the way he's movingBut after spending the first
The will to win said. "It was a tough situation constant, the attention is just everybody around, recognizing
weekend of December in South
On a cold, November after­to be in." beginning. when there's mistakes and try­
Bend and the following week­
noon in 1989, while gathered In the season opener a year Already this preseason, ing to correct everything."
end in Lincoln, Battle cancelled 
with his family, Battle's life for­ago against Kansas, Battle got ESPN, NBC, MSNBC, the San That leadership is not limited 
his remaining visits.
ever changed. That day, his second chance, albeit one Diego Union-Tribune, College to the practice field. 
"Notre Dame's the pinnacle of 
Battle's brother Brandon was with much less pressure. He Football News Online and Battle has made a conscious 
college football," Battle said.
found floating in his grand­quarterbacked 12 plays, mixing KTBS, the Shreveport CBS affil­effort to help his younger team­
"Watching Tony Rice and all
mother's swimming pool. A few poor throws with sensational iate, have sent reporters to mates, especially the three 
those guys when I was little and
hours later, Brandon Battle running in the 48-13 Irish win. question Battle. freshman quarterbacks, Carlyle
just the gold helmets and the
died in a Louisiana hospital. With 2:08 left in the game, Not to mention all the local Holiday, Jared Clark and Matt 
fight song. I wanted to be a
Brandon was 3. Arnaz was 9. Battle scrambled to his right on media outlets hounding Battle LoVecchio, deal with the transi­
part of it."
In the summer of 1998, Arnaz a keeper. broke a tackle and every day. looking for sound tion to college. had an image of his brother's ran 7 4 yards for bis first and bites, quotes or anything else. He has taken it a step further face tattooed on the upper por­A New Chance only career touchdown. "Everyone wants a piece of with Holiday, a neighbor at tion of his left arm. Two distinct moments stand "I finally showed what I can him," said Lisa Nelson, Notre Carroll Hall. 
"It's a constant reminder," out thus far in Battle's college do," Battle said of the run. "Too Dame's publications coordina­"Every morning I go there Battle said of the tattoo. "I still career. bad it didn't carry over tor who handles football media and wake him up," Battle said. think about him every day. But On Nov. 28, 1998, Battle was throughout the season." relations. "I guess it all comes "I make sure he gets to class life goes on." inserted into the USC game He appeared in seven games with being the quarterback at and makes it to practice. I'm 
After the tragedy. Battle with 11:53 remaining in the last season as Jackson's backup Notre Dame." not going to turn my back on 
focused more on athletics. He second quarter. Starter Jackson but only played a few series or Said Davie: "I told Arnaz them just because they're com­had started in organized foot­suffered a regular-season end­plays at a time. they'll probably shut down that peting with me." ball at age 6 as a running back ing right knee injury the week Besides learning the college Wal-Mart in Shreveport in Battle hopes the Irish fans 
before switching to quarter­before against LSU and backup game, Battle also had to adjust honor of him on Saturday, it's will heed his advice of sticking back in junior high. But in Eric Chappell struggled mighti­to a new offensive coordinator, such a big day. That's pretty with the 2000 Irish in victory or those pre and early-teenage ly in his first career start. Kevin Rogers, who implement­big when they shut that Wal­defeat. But that may only be a years, his attention was split So coach Bob Davie turned ed a more complex system, Mart down." dream. between football and basket­the offense over to a freshman, with the main emphasis on the Most of Battle's family, "Until Arnaz is under the gun. ball. Battle played AAU ball who four weeks earlier had quarterback. including his parents and until he picks up those newspa­with 2000 NBA draft picks sprained his right shoulder But despite the difficulties, grandmother, will be in the pers Sunday morning after the Stromile Swift, Kenyon Martin against Baylor. His statistics (7-Battle had a chance to learn stands on Saturday as Battle, a game and goes through the and Marcus Fizer but after of-19 passing for 94 yards and from a seasoned veteran. sociology and CAPP major, whole thing it takes to be the breaking both his wrists during two interceptions plus seven "Watching Jarious Jackson makes his starting debut. quarterback at Notre Dame you an eighth grade scrimmage, carries for 25 yards) combined and the way he handled things So far. the reviews from just don't know for sure (how Battle devoted himself to the with a 10-0 loss, which denied helped me out a lot," Battle teammates and coaches on he'll handle it)." Davie said. gridiron. the Irish a BCS bowl appear­said. "This year we'll put Notre Battle's preseason perfor­"You never know." 
He played both quarterback ance, left Battle with a sour Dame back where it's supposed mances are consistently solid. His future is uncertain, but and wide receiver as a fresh-introduction to college football. to be. I think guys are fired up. "He's taken on more of the one thing is clear: Arnaz Battle 

birthdate: Feb. 22, I980 Dame, Florida State. 4 9ers. Los Angeles Lakers hometown: Shreveport. la. word to describe him off the and Chicago Bulls 
up close & 
dorm: Carroll Hall field: explosive area he would like to improve major: sociology and CAPP word to describe him on the most as a player is: Passing
personal 
dimensions: 6-foot-I, 2 I 8 lbs. field: humble greatest personal athletic Battle's top three teams in col­favorite sports teams as a child: moment: Earning Parade All­
WITH ARNAZ BATTLE lege football this year : Notre Notre Dame, San Francisco American in high school 
Friday, September I, 2000

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Fighting Irish schedule 
Sep. 2 TEXAS A&M Sep. 9_ ~ RDUE 


;!~}3 ~anState 

, t. 7 li'JHFORD 
4 Navy (Orfando, Fla.) Oct. 21 afWest' Virginia Oct. 28 AIR FORCE Nov. 11 BOSTON COLLEGE Nov. 18 at Rutgers Nov. 25 at USC 

fourth season at Notre Dame 
career record: 
21-16 

at Notre Dame: 
21-16 

against Texas 
A&M: o-o 
Roster 

No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
I  llnKk William,  CB  5-IO  190  SR  
2  Carlos Pittrrt... Antoine ILB  6-3  242  JR  
2  Dan Novctknv  QB  6--1  220  so  
3  Amaz 11.ittl,•  QB  n-1  218  JR  
5  Ron h..raL•I  SS  6--0  208  SR  
h  David Givens  rL  f>-3  217  JR  
7  Carlyle Holiday  QB  6-2  190  FR  
H  1..on•nzu Crawford  WR  5-11  175  FR  
9  Jarl'd Clark  QB  f,-4  220  FR  
10  Matt LoV,-cchio  QB  1,--3  200  FR  
JO  Ryan Krueger  QB  5-9  178  JR  
II  Jay John,on  SE  5-11  195  FR  
12  Tony Fi.sher  TB  6-2  225  JR  
13  Nick Sl'tta  K/1'  6--0  175  so  
lJ  Joe Recendez  QB/TE  b-D  222  SR  
14  Cary Codsc•y  QB  6-7  240  so  
15  Clifford Jefferson  CB  5-9  180  JR  
16  Ahram Elam  QB/IJB h--1  190  FR  
17  Joey Ilildbold  P  5-10  190  so  
IH  Jo,•y (;l'thcrall  FL  5-7  175  SR  
19  Glmn Earl  55  f>-2  215  so  
20  Gemme Sapp  FS  Ml  210  FR  
21  j.1Vin Hunter  SE  6-0  186  JR  
22  Julius Jon<-s  TB  5-10  201  so  
23  Chris Yura  Fil  5-11  211  so  
24  Chad llell<,lt  CB  5-10  193  so  
25  Tnny Driver  FS  b--2  220  SR  
21,  Garron Bibi,•  RB  5-10  185  FR  
27  )ilB<in U..•ckstrom  CB  5-10  190  so  
28  Donald Dyk,-s  SS  5-11  195  JR  
29  Justin Smith  FS  5-11  193  SR  
29  Brian Olenic:t.ak  FL  5-11  195  SR  
30  Rocky Boiman  OLB  n-4  240  JR  
31  Dwayne Francis  CB  6--0  195  JR  
32  Terrance Howard  TB  6-1  195  JR  
33  Courtm•y Watson  ILB  6-1  220  so  
34  Vunlcz Duff  Rll  6-1  175  FR  
34  Ja,cint Vukelich  FD  5-10  229  SR  
35  David Mill,•r  K  5-11  191  JR  
35  Tim O'Neill  TB  5-5  170  JR  
JI,  Tom Lopicnski  FB  6-1  245  JR  
3H  Preston Jackson  DB  5-10  172  FR  
38  Eric Nelson  LB  6--0  225  JR  
39  Anthony Denman  II.ti  6-2  235  SR  
40  Jason Murray  FB  h--1  259  SR  
41  Mike C(X)lsby  LB  6-4  225  FR  
42  Sham• Walhm  CB  5-1 I  183  JR  
43  Anthony Brannan  !LB  5-10  215  SR  
44  Grant Irons  DE  6-5  275  SR  
45  Malt S,,rb  SS  5-11  201  JR  
41,  Jcn·my Juare,  FIi  5-11  251  SR  
47  Mikt• McNair  FB  b-0  240  JR  
4H  Kyl,• Budin,;cak  DL  f>-5  250  FR  
49  Dt•n•k Curry  LB  6-4  225  FR  
so  Cedric Hilliilrd  DT  6-2  290  so  
51  Tyreo ~ larrison  II.II  1,--2  242  JR  
52  Jeff Faine  C  6-3  292  so  
52  Mark Mitchell  OLD  5-10  220  SR  
53  Jason Halvorsun  Lil  6-2  230  so  
54  Luigi R,w  11.B  5-10  215  SR  
55  Jim Jom•s  OG  h--2  310  SR  
56  l'at Ry,,n  11.B  6-3  235  so  
57  Justin Thomas  OLB  6-1  245  so  
58  Joseph Mut>11cr  LB  5-11  195  SR  
59  Brian Dierckrnan  [Lil  6-1  255  SR  
1,1)  Darrell Campbell  DE  6-4  285  50  
61  Mik,• Zelenka  FB  6--0  225  SR  
62  Cast'y Robin  OT  6-7  305  SR  
63  Bn•nnan Curtin  OT  n-8  315  so  
64  Juhn Crowther  C  6-2  240  JR  
65  Scan Milligan  0G  1,--4  295  so  
66  JW Jurdan  C  f>-1  275  SR  
67 69  Ryan Gillis Mike Gandy  0G 0G  h--3 6-4  292 315  so SR  
70  Jim Molinaro  DE  6-6  265  so  
72  Ryan Scarola  oc.  1,--5  301  JR  
73  Adam Tibblc  K  5-11  201  JR  
75  Kurt Voller,;  OT  6-7  310  SR  
76  Juhn Tc•asdale  OT  6-5  305  SR  
77  Greg Pauly  DI.  h--6  275  FR  
78  Jordan lllack  OT  6-6  310  JR  
79  Sean Mahtm  OT  h-3  288  JR  
80  Omar Jenkins  WR  6-2  180  FR  
HI  Jerome Collins  WR  o-4  200  FR  
82  Ronnil' Rod~mer  WR  6--4  185  FR  
82  Bernard Ak,,tu  SE  5-10  180  JR  
83  Josh Gcntill'  K/P  5-11  199  so  
84  John Owens  DE  6-3  265  JR  
85  Jeffrey Campbell  TE/DE  6-1  200  JR  
86  Dan O'Leary  TE  6-3  21,1)  SR  
87  Jabari I lolloway  TE  6-3  260  SR  
88  Jovan Withl•rspoon  WR  6-4  205  FR  
89 90  Cera Id Morgan Lance Legree  TE NG  &-4 h--1  261 285  JR SR  
91 92  Andn•w Dempsey MattMcNt.•w  DE K  6-2 h-3  265 200  SR SR  
93  8,J. Scott  OT  6-3  290  SR  
\14  Andy Wisne  DT  6-3  272  SR  
95  Ryan Roberts  DE  h--2  251  JR  
9b  Billy Palmer  TE  h--3  250  FR  
9K  Anthcmy Weaver  DT  6-3  276  JR  
\19  Jasun Sapp  LB  6-3  230  FR  

IN POSITION: kicking duties 

Observer Staff Repon 

One of the most hotly contested posi­tions on the Notre Dame football team this year is that of kicker/punter. The Irish hope to finally gain some consis­tency here after the roller coaster Jim Sanson era. 
David Miller, who missed part of last season due to an injury, could cement 
DEPTH CHARTS 
TAILBACX 
~~ 12-ft,hor 
~,­
RIGKTGUAAD 
~~ 
RIGHTTACKI.E 
1&-v,11... 
7Hoa~dale 
TIGHT ENO 
17-llollouy
l!&-O'ua,y 
FLANKER 
18-lllttte111! 
8-GMtns 

his role as the starting placckickcr with a strong performance Saturday. Sophomore Nick Setta and senior Matt McNew will also compete for the kick­ing position. 
Sctta and classmate Joey llildbold will test each other at the punting position. 
The race is so close that Davie has predicted all four will share kicking duties throughout the season. 
C0RHERBAGK
22-oam 

'.. .... i.r,.~.
ft' ',,~~' 
.~. 'L'
-.·~t t~~ht ~ 
11 1
-,1,~~~mo01

\ / , ~. 94-War,ren ILB SS ~ 17-Gamble -ta-Kl 

kil 


Aggies schedule 
Sep. 2 at Notre Dame Sep.9 s -PASO 
Nov. 4 at Oklahoma State Nov. 11 OKLAHOMA Nov. 24 at Texas 

12th season at Texas A&M 
career record: 
l02-32-2 
at Texas A&M: 
102-32-2 
against Notre Dame: 0-2 
Roster 

No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  Michael JameS<m  DB  5-11  188  SR  
2  Christian Rodriguez  LB  1,--2  225  JR  
3  Roylin Bradley  LB  6-1  234  SR  
4  Dwain Goynes  WR  5-10  179  so  
5  Ja'Mar TlX>mbs  FB  6-0  275  JR  
6  Robert Ferguson  WR  6-2  220  JR  
7  Chris Taylor  WR  5-11  184  SR  
8  Vance Smith  QB  b-4  226  so  
9  Bethel Johnson  WR  5-11  188  JR  
JO  Mark Farris  QB  6-2  206  so  
II  Colby Fn,eman  QB  h--2  214  so  
12  Denis Patrick  P  5-11  169  SR  
13  Terence Kitchens  K  5-9  170  SR  
14  Dawon Gentry  DB  5-11  189  FR  
15  Adam Iliack  DB  5-10  173  FR  
16  Derek L.e<:hlcr  P  6-0  223  so  
17  Brian Gamble  LB  6-2  223  so  
18  Dustin Long  on  6-3  185  FR  
19  Roddy Alexand,•r  WR  5-8  161  so  
19  Eric Stanford  DB  h-2  195  so  
20  Cody Scates  r  6-0  180  FR  
21  Jay Brooks  DB  5-9  183  JR  
22  Sammy Davis  DB  6-0  180  so  
23  Jason Glenn  LB  6-1  228  SR  
24  Richard Whitaker  RB  5-10  197  so  
25  Chris Sims  K  b-0  163  FR  
26  Jonte Buhl  DB  5-9  163  FR  
27  Jesse Hunnicutt  LB  6-2  237  so  
28  Joe Weber  RB  6-0  228  so  
29  Maurice Harris  RB  5-8  185  so  
30  Wes Bautov,ch  DB  6-2  210  JR  
30  Keelan Jackson  OB  6-1  209  FR  
31  Sean Weston  DB  5-9  170  so  
32  Oschlor Flemming  RB  5-10  204  so  
33  Damien West  LB  6-2  237  so  
34  Keith Joseph  Rll  6-2  221  FR  
35  Mike Pinesette  DB  5-11  193  JR  
36  Amon Simon  RB  6-1  224  JR  
37  Jerome Weber  DB  5-11  166  FR  
37  Russell Bynum  K  5-9  176  SR  
38  Stacy Jones  RB  5-11  229  so  
39  Eric Crutchfield  DB  6-0  180  FR  
39  Jack Milligan  RB  6-0  203  so  
40  Kevin Mangum  DB  5-10  176  FR  
41  Harold Robertson  LB  6-2  205  so  
42  Everett Smith  DB  h--2  205  so  
43  Jarrod Penright  LB  6-3  233  so  
44  Greg Porter  WR  6--4  228  so  
45  Jared Morris  LB  6-~  237  so  
46  Cornelius Anthony  LB  6-O  226  SR  
47  LeBrandon Shepard  LB  6-1  219  FR  
48  Terrance Kiel  DB  5-11  196  so  
49  Timm Gergeni  P / K  5-9  159  so  
so  John Kirk  OL  6-4  282  so  
51  Taylor Whitley  OL  6-4  305  so  
52  Brendan Patrick  OL  6-3  260  FR  
53  Toron Wooldridge  LB  6--0  220  so  
54  Jamt-s Milkavich  OL  6-2  270  so  
55  Timothy Joseph  LB  6-2  267  FR  
56  Toby McCarthy  OL  6-2  274  SR  
57  Richard Martin  DB  6-1  223  SR  
58  Ricky Cardoza  LB  6-4  223  FR  
59  Brian Thompson  LB  6-0  213  FR  
63  Chance Pearce  DS  6-2  230  so  
64  Kevin James  LB  6-2  248  FR  
65  Andre Brooks  OL  1,--4  298  so  
66  Geoff Hangartner  OL  6-5  272  FR  
67  Wes Dennard  OL  6-4  225  so  
68  Britt Lively  OL  6-4  299  so  
69  Don Muhlbach  OS  6-4  267  so  
70  Moses Vakalah1  OL  6-5  300  JR  
71  Chris Valletta  OL  6-3  302  SR  
72  Billy Yates  OL  6-1  280  so  
73  Alan Reuber  OL  6-6  280  so  
74  Tango McCauley  OL  6-3  288  JR  
75  Chris Montgomery  OL  6-8  317  so  
76  Michael Mahan  OL  6--6  293  so  
77  Seth McKinney  OL  6-3  290  JR  
7K  Kasey Cheshier  OL  6-4  279  FR  
79  MattEnzler  TE  6-2  234  JR  
80  Ellison Collins  WR  6-3  206  so  
81  Joey Perot  TE  6-5  257  FR  
82  RoDerrkk Broughton TE  6-1  258  SR  
82  Nick Rodgers  WR  6-2  243  SR  
83  Mickey Jones  WR  5-9  178  JR  
84  Tahumbrae llmwn  TE  6-3  255  so  
85  Lonnie Madison  TE  6-3  236  JR  
86  Fred Spiller  TE  6-3  252  so  
87  Michael de la Torre  TE  6-5  244  so  
88  Linnis Smith  DL  6-4  250  FR  
89  J.P, LeCompte  TE  6-3  243  SR  
90  Stephen Young  DL  6-0  275  SR  
91  Marcus Jasmin  DL  6-4  323  l'R  
92  Al Reilly  TE  6-3  252  SR  
93  livan l'erroni  DL  6-5  265  JR  
94  Ty Warren  DL  6-4  294  so  
95  Rocky Bernard  DL  6-3  275  SR  
96  Ron Edwards  DL  6-3  284  SR  
97  A.J. Thill  DE  6-4  270  SR  
98  Mark lluggctl  DE  6-3  265  SR  
99  Ronald Flemons  DE  6-5  249  SR  


Friday, September 1, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
EYE ON THE ENEMY 
"Wrecking Crew" looks to crush Irish hopes 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Fditor 
The "Wrecking Crew"of Texas A&M hopes to demolish Notre Dame's hopes of a sea­son-opening victory Saturday. 
Senior outside linebackers Hoylin Bradley and Jason Glenn tallind 27 tackles for losses and 12 sacks a season ago. Along with two experi­enced inside linebackers in Cornelius Anthony and Brian Gamble, the Aggies' linelmck­ers have their sights set on breaking up the Irish offense, Notre Dame's offense must counter the Aggies despite having a rookie quarterback and an unproven offensive lino. 
"Every time we touch the ball on offense, there's going to he someone new handling it," Irish coach Bob Davie said. "Whether we're in the shotgun or whether the quarterback is under center, that's a con­cern." 
Texas A&M finds itself in a similar position, with a new quarterback in sophomore Mark Farris. Farris virtually mirrors Notre Dame quarter­back Arnaz Datt.le at (i-foot-2 and 212 pounds, and both players will have all eyes on them every time they set foot on the field. 
If Farris comes through, he's got a tal1rnted running and receiving corps. 
Running back Ja'Mar Toombs led the Aggies in rush­ing a season ago, racking up 583 yards and nine rushing touchdowns. In the air, the best options are Chris Taylor and Bethel Johnson, the top two wide receivers in 1999. 
While the Irish starters at linebacker -Tyreo Harrison, Anthony Denman and Rocky 13oiman -form a solid block, Davie is concerned about the opposition. 
"The question will be, can we block really explosive players like A&M has, [a really) explo­sive scheme like they have?'' Davie asked. "How do we han­dle their quickness up front? How do we handle their expe­rience up front'?" 
The Aggies' offensive line, like that of the Irish, has suf­fered from injuries which struck at their consistency. The defensive line, on the other hand, starts an experienced trio in noseguard Ron Edwards and ends Ronald Flemons and Rocky Bernard, 
Texas A&M will he hard­pressed to replace All­American punter and kicker Shane Lechler, but punter Terence Kitchens and Timm Gergeni will give it their best shots. 
Texas A&M and Notre Dame, both schools with sto­ried histories, are coming off less than satisfactory seasons. The Aggies finished last year at 8-4, while the Trish were 7-5. Head coach R.C. Slocum, a member of the 100-carner vic­tories club, was Irish coach Bob Davie's mentor a few years back. 
With close parallels in the two teams, Saturday's matchup should be well bal­anced and bard-fought. Texas A&M is rankPd 25th while Notre Dame is looking to break into the top 25. Doth teams are looking to raise their rankings with a season-opening victory. 

fast facts 
ABOUT TEXAS A&M 
. 
Location: College Station, Texas . Enrollment: 43,422 

. 
Colors: Maroon and White 

. 
Nickname: Aggies 

. 
Conference: Big 12 . Founded: 1871 


. 
Aggies' coach R.C. Slocum is one of seven Division I coaches to reach 100 wins in just 11 seasons. 

. 
Texas A&M's home stadium with 


Texas A&M's Jay Brooks, a defensive back, is shown here 
80,650 seats is slightly larger than 
returning an interception last year. The Aggies hope to give Notre Dame Stadium. the Irish offense fits with their talented defensive crew. 

'lt1111S 

o Coupon Necessary. Plus Delivery & Tax Where Applicable. · ~ot Valid With Any Other Offer. Limited Time Offer. 
54533 Terrace Ln. . (East of Ironwood)
243-1111 
52750 U.S. 33N (N. of Cleveland Rd.)
243-1122 
AROUND THE NATION 
Friday, September 1, 2000 A LOOK AT THIS WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION page 6 

GAME OF THE WEEK 

1 2 
3 
4 5 
6 7 
8 
9 

10 11 12 13 14 15 16 -17 18 19 20 21 22 23 
24 
25 
1 2 
3 
4 5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 
18 
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 

Associated Press Top 25 
leam  record  points  
Nebraska (35)  0-0  1,728  
Florida St. (30)  1·0  1,723  
Alabama (3)  0-0  1,577  
Wisconsin (1)  0·0  1,442  
Miami, Fla.  0·0  1,404  
Michigan  0-0  1,381  
Texas (2)  0-0  1,308  
Kansas SI.  1·0  1,256  
Florida  0-0  1,248  
Georgia  0-0  1,230  
Virginia Tech  0-0  1,050  
use  1-0  966  
Tennessee  0-0  902  
Washington  0-0  785  
Purdue  0-0  728  
Ohio St.  0·0  601  
Clemson  0·0  597  
Misslnippl  0-0  545  
Oklahoma  0-0  469  
TCU  0·0  408  
Illinois  0-0  395  
So. Mississippi  0-0  248  
Colorado  0·0  182  
Michigan St.  0-0  162  
TexasA&M  0·0  141  

ESPN/USA Today poll 
team 
Nebraska (40) Florida St. (17} Alabama (1) Michigan Wisconsin (1) Miami, Fla. Florida Texas Kansas SI. Virginia Tech Georgia Tennessee USC Purdue Washington Ohio St. Mississippi Clemson Oklahoma lllinols TCU Michigan St Texas A&M So. Mississippi Colorado 

record points 
0-0 1,446 1-0 1,416 0-0 1,305 0·0 1,214 0-0 1,211 0-0 1,112 0-0 1,088 0-0 1,040 1·0 989 0-0 955 0-0 924 0-0 831 1-0 741 
D·O 663 0·0 606 0-0 564 
D·O 417 0-0 392 
0-0 347 0-0 300 0-0 250 0-0 225 0-0 215 O·0 206 0-0 154 




By PEYTON BERG 
Sports Writer 

Alabama coach Mike DuBose started last sea­son denying allegations of sexual misconduct. He finished by beating Florida in the SEC Championship game en route to a 10-3 record. 
The Crimson Tide lost its two best players to the NFL, but the roster is far from depleted. Alabama comes back loaded at every position and expects to return to the SEC title game. 
The _Tide go two deep at quarterback, a luxury few teams enjoy. Andrew Zow will start, but DuBose won't hesi­tate to play sophomore Tyler Watts. The tailback position is a question, where Shawn Bohanon takes over for the depart­ed Shawn Alexander. Wide receiver Freddie Milons is a deep threat and probably the most talented offensive player in the SEC. Look for him to see action at quarter­back, receiver, and kick returner throughout the year. 
The defense is strong and quick, with trade­mark Alabama defensive ends and linebackers putting heat on opposing quarterbacks. Linebacker Saleen Rasheed reminds Tide fans of 'Barna great Derrick Thomas. 
Two years ago, Cade McNown and Company were contenders until the Bruins' defense missed the flight to Miami and surrendered 500 yards to the Hurricanes. Coach Bob Toledo parlayed this successful season into a stellar recruiting class, which now enters its sophomore year. Injuries, a handicapped parking permit scandal and the 
departures of McNown and Danny Farmer hurt the Bruins last season. 
This year, however, the Bruins will make a state­ment. 
Offensive threats Brian Poli-Dixon and DeShaun Foster return from injury to inject speed into what was, at times, a dormant 1999 offense. Promising defensive end Kenyon Coleman will lead an improved defense. Look for the Bruins to contend for the PAC 10 Championship, provided they can survive their final two games against Washington and USC. 
around the dial 
Boston College at W. Virginia 
11 a.m., ESPN 
Alabama at UCLA 
2:30 p.m.• ABC 
Louisiana Tech at Kansas St. 
6 p.m., FOXSN 
Colorado vs. Colorado State 
5 p.m., RSPN2 
So. Mississippi at Tennessee 
6:30 p.m., E'>PN 
Stanford at Washington Stale 
10:15 p.m., FOXSN 

Observer experts 
NOTRE DAME ALABAMA COLORADO 
TENNESSEE 
Season Record 
o-o 
NOTRE DAME ALABAMA COLORADO 
TENNESSEE 
Season Record o-o 
NOTHE DAME AIABAMA COLORADO 
TENNESSEE 
Season Record 
0-0 
OTHER TOP GAMES 
Colorado vs. Colorado State 
Once upon a time, this "rivalry" was thought to be an easy victory fur the vaunted Buffaloes. Gone are the days of Kordell Stewart. Rashaan Salaam, and Hail Marys to beat Michigan in the final seconds. 
The Hams humiliated Gary Burnett in his coaching debut last year 41-14, so revenge will be a motivating factor. 
Colorado State will be the first of six tough teams in a row on Colorado's schedule, giving the Buffaloes the toughest schedule in the nation. 
Barnett, must find a new quarter­back and break-in an inexperienced secrrndary quickly. He has ta.lent. at the skill positions, most notably prized recruit tailback Marcus 
Houston and wide receiver Javon Green. 
Colorado's linebackers may be the best in the Big 12. Jashon Sykes has All-American potential, and follows a great CU linebacking tradition that includes Chad Brown, Greg Biekert, and Ted Johnson. 
So. Mississippi at Tennessee 
Tennessee was decimated by play­ers graduating (quarterback Pr.yton Manning) and leaving for the NrL (Jamal Lewis). But a rebuilding year f'or the Volunteers means losing two games. The Golden Eaglr.s return an experienced crnw and should make the top 25. but are not talented enough to overcome the Volunteers. 
Friday, September l, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
quarterbacks: Both offensive line: The Irish special teams: A&M's Al/­
teams' quarterbacks 
gained experience last American punter graduat­
the inside 
EVEN
are untested. Battle's year, although both ed, but Kitchens impressed seen more game time team's lines battled in the early season until his than Farris, and wins injuries in I 999. kicks lost height. Notre 
edge 

the edge. Dame's Miller is back and healthy after losing his starting role to an injury



defensive line: The Aggies 
running backs: A&M's last year.
records: o-o 
start one ofthe most

No. r fullback Toombs Overall
A.P. rank: NR 
veteran defensioe lines 
is a powerhouse, but

coach's poll: NR EVEN coaching: Davie Even though it's the first
q;i 
around. For the Irish,
Notre Dame rotates in trained under game of the season,

Irons and Weaver need
a trio oftalenled tail­

to step it up. Slocum, but has not most people consider itbacks at Fisher, 
matched his mentor's
records: o-o do or die for the Irish.
Howard and Jones. 
success. Slocum
A.P. rank: No. 25 

linebackers: Two words: ranks among the Texas A&M struggled on
coach's poll: No. 23 

Wreckin_q Crew. the road last season in
winningest coaches
receivers: The Aggies' Denman. Harrison and 
ofthe r990s. tough stadiums, and
EVEN Taylor and Johnson 
Boiman are solid but

Series Record Noire Dame Stadium is
ar•eraged more than 18 
not yet at the same 
unforgiving. The teams

yards per reception in caliber as the A_qgies.
Notre Dame 

1999. The Irish lost intangibles: The Irish almost mirror each other leads Texas A&M Bobby Brown but return 
need this win for in experience and talent,
secondary: Both teams

tight ends O'Leary and momentum heading 
so it may come down to

2-I 
lost a great deal to
Holloway as captains.· into the game against 
graduation, but the the intangibles, which
the 'Huskers. Plus

Irish have seniors favor Notre Dame.
they're on their home
Driver and Williams 
field.
back in the linPup. 

IRISH INSIGHT 
Unpopular Davie deserves a fresh start in season opener 
Here we arc again, at the start Rocker's. Already, rumored of the 112th Notre Dame foot­replacements for Davie are ball season. being mentioned. Most of the 
The Bookstore is on pace to speculation is as reliable as a earn more in six weekends than Shag free throw. I suggest a new the entire one -any coach whose first yearly GNP 
name does not begin with 'L' or of 'B' cannot be considered. Or else Malaysia. the 1812 Overture will be termi­Alumni­nated. Senior Chili Is all the criticism justified? Of is occupied course not. It never is. But it's by 10 times convenient. as many of Plenty of question marks exist the former on the 2000 team besides as the lat-Tim Casey Davie's 21-16 career record. ter. VIP's The defensive secondary fea­are seen tures Oifford Jefferson, the
Assistant

mingling Clifford Jefferson of 1998 (Brock
Sports Editor 

~ith RV Williams), a former star soccer drivers. player (Shane Walton) with four Otherwise minutes of college football expe­fashionable alumni are clot}J.ed rience and two senior safeties in a crude combination of blue, (Tony Driver and Ron Israel) green and gold. who have nine combined starts 
And, since school commenced, in three years. Only two defen­there have been 467,923 "Davie sive reserves Oeft defensive end sucks" chants (or variations of Ryan Roberts, and Jefferson, it} on campus. Another million who is competing with Walton or so rants will be heard this for the starting right cornerback weekend. position) played more than 35 
When I arrived here three minutes in 1999. years ago, freshmen were David Miller is the lone place immediately programmed to kicker ~ith any game experi­despise two evils. ence after finishing 2-for-5 on 
Zahm and parietals. field goals, including misses 
Back then, Davie was driving from 25 and 29 yards out last his golf cart, distributing adidas season. The top returning wide T-shirts to each dorm and con­receiver (Joey Getherall) stands vincing people he would return 5-foot-8 and weighs less than the program to national promi­180 pounds. Arnaz Battle has nence. Davie had yet to utter the never started and the quarter­infamous words about Notre back backups have never played Dame's band, cheerleaders, in a college contest. alumni, German professors, All pretty gloomy facts. Board of Trustees, dining hall I can hear the grumblings: employees and janitorial staffs Aren't those players the same all being the best in the country. recruits Davie mentions every 
Now, as the freshmen experi­February as "talented" and ence their first football week­"outstanding""? Isn't it Davie's end, the dubious duo of Zahm ultimate responsibility to sur­and parielals have some compa­round him with the best possible ny -a fourth-year head coach athletes? Is there any way Notre and former defensive coordina­Dame should ever go 5-7? ,. tor who graduated from Yes. Yes and No. Youngstown State University in Yet, place some of the blame 1976. on the player's shoulders and on 
Davie has reachPd ihP depths the other members ofthe coach­of unpopularity noi seen here ing staff since before any of the under­Even better, don't place any graduate student body was blame at all on this team. Give born. Gerry Faust'! At least he the 2000 Irish time, say four or was a devout Catholic. Ron five games. Thenjudge. 
Powlus? He had an excuse of We've all heard enough, spo­Dame football coach. This is the impact on the 26th Trish head fact. the pre-freshman year broken ken enough and read enough same guy who predicted Ron football coach's future. There's always Zahm and right clavicle injury. Jim about last year's debacle. Powlus would win two Ileismaus Borrowing a line from a parietals.Sanson? Maybe. ESPN's Beano Cook likes to so his "expertise" is question­white rapper not named Snow But in sheer magnitude, from say the three touglrnstjobs in ..
able. or Vanilla Ice, "will the real Bob The views expressed in this Anchorage io Athens, from America are, in order, being the But he has a point. Davie please stand up?" column are those ofthe author Portland to Providence, Davie's mavor of New York, President of This season, whether fair or 
If it's the Davie of '97 and and not necessarily those ofThe Q rating is lower than John the.United States and Notre not, will probably have a major '99, he can take solace in one Observer. 

I 
: ,­
1 
! ...... 
.. 
.... 
Notre Dame vs. Texas A&M The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 1, 2000 
There's a million reasons to shop· 


this weekend. 

, , , 
e e e 

MEIJER HAS ALL YOUR TAILGATE PARTY NEEDS!! 
Mishawaka South Bend 5020 Grape Road 3600 N. Portage Road 273-3500 273-3400 
..... 






