
Green Day 
Underdogs
Green Day graces the music world with their 
Third party candidates Ralph Nader and 

Tuesday
fourth album which departs slightly from their 
Patrick Buchanan continue gaining support 
pure punk roots. 
among readers. 
OCTOBER 10,
Scene . page 11 
Viewpoint . page 9 
2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 36 
NEWS ANALYSIS 



Nader struggles for recognition 
By NATE PHILLIPS News Writer 

With the presidential elec­tions just around the corner, the race is becoming increas­ingly tighter between presiden­tial nominees Al Gore and George W. Bush. 
Many voters, however, forget that there are several alterna­tive party candidates who are also seeking the executive office. 
Leading the race among these candidates is Green Party leader Ralph Nader. Nader seeks to establish a new type of presidency -one that listens to the people, and less to the polit­ical influences in Washington. 
Recently, there have been a large number of controversies concerning the representation of Nader's campaign. He has not been allowed onto many ballots across the United States, and was refused participation in the presidential debates. Many voters are disappointed in the unfair treatment of Nader thus far in the election. 
Nader presents a distinct threat to Gore's overall vote because he could possibly sway liberal voters away from Gore. 
In the 1992 and 1996 elections, Ross Perot made a significant impact on the overall election. In the same way, voters for Nader could pull votes away from Gore. 
"Nader's ability to get on a ballot is not that outstanding of an accomplishment. Perot set the bar for this eight years ago, and quite possibly cost Bush the election," said Al Tillery, a Notre Dame government profes­
sor. "Nader could pull liberal voters in favor of the environ­ment and taking money out of politics away from Gore's camp." 
"Nader being on the ballot will take away votes from Gore," said Notre Dame govern­ment professor Benjamin Radcliffe. "How many votes is still up in the air, but neverthe­
see NADER/page 4 
HTTP:!/OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Bush changes mind about ND appearance 

By MAUREEN SMITHE Assistant News Ediror 
Despite rumors and ten­tative plans, Republican presidential nominee George W. Bush will not be making an appearance a t 
Notre involved in the campaigns Dame were alerted of the invita­prior to tions in hopes of influenc­t h e ing the candidates. Nov. 7 Although Gore has yet to e l e c -confirm an appearance, tions. Moore said a visit is still 
• "With possible. a politi­The University extended

c a l cam ­paign, nothing is con­firmed until it happens," said Dennis Moore, direc­tor of public relations. "They looked at their numbers in Pennsylvania and decided that they needed to be there." 
Moore said the University learned about the change of plans only recently. 
"We were attempting to finalize a date when they decided not to come," he 
said. "It's not an unusual happenstance." 
Bush and Democratic presidential nominee Al Gore received invitations to speak on campus from Edward Malloy, University president, after their respective conventions. Prominent alumni 
invitations to the nomi­nees to inform the student body of their respective platforms. 
"It gives us the opportu­nity for people in the cam­pus community to actually see and hear the candi­dates in the flesh," Moore said. 
The University has a his­tory of inviting presiden­tial candidates to campus, including Dwight D. Eisenhower, Jimmy Carter, George Bush and Bill Clinton. 


PLS major celebrates 50 years of learning 
beginning, but it eventually generally a kind of recogni­themselves to a specializa­schools.
. Major honors 
found steady ground," Ayo tion that certain books have, tion early." In addition to the readinganniversary with said. a lasting quality," Crowe "They want a broad liberal and discussion courses, PLS year-long festivities The goal of the program is said. "We don't agree with education," continued also offers courses in natural to create a curriculum that all of them but they raise the Crowe, adding that PLS is science, social science, the­heavily relies on reading. right questions even of the good preparation for gradu­ology, history and literature. By NATASHA GRANT "It's an integrated course answers that are hard to ate work Because of News Writer somewhat similar to Core, come about, for example, because it tho amount but a little more contempo­justice, and the meaning of sharpens "Over the years, it's been of work Celebrating its 50th year. rary. PLS life." skills nec-very successful. PLS involved, the the Program of Liberal often reach-A y o essary for program usu­
attracts some ofthe
Studies (PLS) plans to con­es out to "People would like agreed. competitive a 11 y loses a tinue honoring the pro­great books "Books fields. brightest students few people
to hm,e a common
gram's success through the which is that have " People every year,
genuinely interested 
semester. close to experience ofbeing in the been in would like but Crowe
in learning."
"We've had events running what they do same class with the same print a long to have a sees the pro­from [the] last academic in University time are a common gr am as an
people year to year. In
year," says Michael Crowe, seminars, sign that it's experience Michael Crowe overall suc­a Cavanaugh professor in except that these smq,ll-knit a good book. of being in cess.
Cavanaugh professor in PLS 
PLS. Crowe and Nicholas seminar Also, books the same "Over the
communities. students 
Ayo, a CSC professor, are in books are that are class with years it's been 
are known by name. " 
charge of the year-long cele­uniquely cited by the same very success­bration. chosen by o t h e r people year ful. PLS The history of the major one profes­Nicholas Ayo authors are to year. In these small-knit attracts some of the brightest goes back to the 1950s, sor while the usually communities, students are students genuinely interested in
CSC professor
when Father Cavanaugh was great books great books. known by name," Ayo said. learning," Crowe said. president of the University. are argued for this A fair number PLS majors Ayo agreed. 
"They were trying to bring a m o n g entails pass-enter law school after gradu­"PLS is time consuming so stu­the world back to its roots many," said Ayo. ing on a trad ition," said ation because the major d ents would have to want to and Father Cavanaugh Crowe and Ayo are part of Crowe. teaches them to defend, read read. They would anticipate brought IPLSJ here and pre­the major's continuing con­Crowe described students and write quickly, while fos­good and bad. It's not for every­sented a Catholic version. troversy. who major in PLS as "people tering a broad sense of one, but those that stay aro very The program struggled in the "Over the centuries, there's who don't want to confine humanity appealing to law happy," he said. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A stolen bike, a shattered ideal 
I had a great weekend. My sister came for a 
visit, we won lhc fooLball game and I man­
aged to have a relaxing Sunday afternoon 
despite midterms week. However, my peace 
of mind disinlegrated late Sunday night on 
my way to the Grotto. 
Walking past the bike rack 
outside of mv dorm, I 
noticed that my· brand new 
bike was gone. 
Heartbroken and shoul­
ders slumped. I crceped to 
the Grotto, hoping that in 
some way my bike would 
turn up. Maybe one of my 
friends just borrowed it. I 
reassured myself. Maybe 
Notre Dame Security saw 
it unlocked and brought il 
somewhere safe. Maybe I 
forgot that I had driven it 
somewhere. All sorts of 
rationalizations raced 
through my brain until I made it back to the 
bike rack. 
Lying in the dirt, I f'ound my cul lock lying near where my purple MountainTrek bike used to be. I picked it up and dusted it off. thinking about the person who cut the lock and carelessly threw it on the ground. 
That person approached my bike with the planned intent to steal it. That person delib­erately cut the lock and rode away with no remorse and no concern for the person whose day they were ruining. What did that person look like? What is that person thinking about right now? What does that person think about every time they sit on my purple bike? 
I guess I never thought that things like this really happened on our campus. No one even locks their doors. so why so why would any­one go through the trouble of cutting a bike lock? While here. I feel so isolated from crime because it just doesn't really happen. But, now I know that crime docs happen on this campus. and things far worse than bike theft can happen. There hadn't been a moment when I felt more violated, and for that I am graterul that it was just a stolen bike. But, my bike is gone and it isn't coming back -I am really mad! 
It had been years since I had a bike, and I really liked the one I had. My grandma gave it to me this summer, and I was so excited to bring it to campus. It had the cutest Love Pack on the back of it, perfect for toting clothes to Saint Michael's dry cleaners and checks lo the Notre bame Federal Credit Union for deposit. My grandma even gave me a speedometer for it, and even though it never worked. it was fun to have. 
To the person who stole my beloved bike: open up the Love Pack. In there you will find a map of Chicago area bike trails and a pic­ture of my grandma. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maureen Smithe Sam Oerheimer Kiflin Turner Chris Scott Anne Marie Mattingly Graphics Sports Dana Mangnuson Lauren Conri Production Viewpoint Kathleen O'Brien Kun BogaarJ Lab Tech Amanda Greco 
The Ob«rvcr (USI'S 599 2-4000) 1s published Monday through Fria.ty oxc<pl during oxam and vacation prriod.,. The Observer i• a member of the Assodo.ted l'ress. All rcproJuc1ion rights >rr rr<crved. 

QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"All you guys are "Do not walk the "/ don't think a lot of "We want to run it worried about is if streets at 2 o'clock in peope know I'm on down their throats there's going to be hot the morning. You the team. Ijust go to and crush them into chocolate in that might as well put a class and go to the ground." press box." sign on your head practice. I'm a pretty that says, ·1 am a regular guy. " Dahx Marrs, Fisher interhall football 
Bob Davie, Notre Dame Notre Dame student. defensive linebacker
head coach addressing Beat me. Take my Matt LoVecchhio, complaints made by the money. "' Notre Dame quarterback press on the weekend's Eldon Bradley, 
weather 
South Bend corporal 
Compiled from U0 Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 


Same-sex marriages in question at Duke 
DURHAM, N.C. and proactively work fur equity in all 
In a passionate speech to the Board 
its endeavors, without question." of Trustees Friday. Duke Student "Duke currently operates under a Government (DSG) president Jordan highly visible nondiscrimination policy Bazinsky highlighted and hammered that specifically includes sexual orien­home recommendatic,ns on financial tation." he said. '"Duke cannot load the aid and same-sex marriages in Duke's nation in its nducational and div1!rsity Chapel. His bold approach seems to merits without granting every individ­have worked. The issue of same-sex ual on campus equal rights to all of il'i marriages in the Chapel ~vas not on facilities." the board's agenda. but cropped up as Keohane asked the counsel board to an item of discussion Saturday morn­name a committee that will bn devot­ing. As a result of the trustees' advice, ed to recommendations· and issues in university President Nan Keohane question. announced Sunday that she and the Bazinsky referenced a controversial The DSG has set discussion panels Dean of the Chapel will appoint a survey by Princeton Heview that featuring DSG officials. administra­team of trustees. faculty and adminis­ranked Duke the fourth-most intoler­tors. faculty members and of'f1cials trators to review the policy and pre­ant school toward alternative from the Center for Lesbian. Gay. sent a policy recommendation. lifestyles. "Is that acceptable to you?" Bisexual and Transgender Life. DSG is 
When he got to same-sex unions he asked the trustees. "It's not accept­also planning a rally on the Chapel toward the end of his speech, able to me. Duke must courageously steps. 
TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 
Credit -card scams target students 
Many students have received this phone call from companies: A credit card company is updating its records and a credit card number is necessary for account status verification. This is one of the ploys scam artists use to rip people off, said Larry Lightfoot, presi­dent of Texas A&M's Bryan Better Business Bureau (BBB). "[In most credit card scamsJ, they call you up and tell you they are supposedly updating their records and 
· they are from a major credit card company and they ask you to verify who you are by giving them your credit card number," he said. "By doing that, they will have access to your credit card account. and they charge things on your account without your knowledge. This summer the BBB received a surge in consumer-reported telephone scams. reporting that telephone scarnmers have numerous ways of convincing victims to give them the information they want. Before becoming victim to scams, students can take preventative measures. Avoid giving personal information over the phone and listen to everything that is said. 

OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Program may undervalue teachers 
For the past 10 years many college graduates may not have realized an opportunity that was available to them. Physics majors. engineering majors and English majors could have used their degrees to become teachers through Teach for America (TFA). TFA seeks to provide relief in rural and urban regions where teacher short­ages exist. While TFA is responsible for recruiting. select­ing and training its teachers. the hiring of teachers is handled within the individual school districts that TFA serves. Corps members serve as full-time teachers. Patricia Enciso, Ohio State University assistant professor of education, has mixed feelings about the program. 'They [TFA teachers] can offer enthusiasm for a subject, because of the experiences they've had in their own edu­cation. however. successfully teaching children requires that they not only have an understanding of a particular subject, but also an understanding of how children learn," Enciso said. However. according to statistics pro­vided by TFA. oftentimes their teachers do prove to be very effective in the classroom. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Band Forecast 
kn.Wmhar !are:ast for d,ytirre an:liticrs arrl hi\11 ~ 

The AccuWeather«> forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 10. 
Tuesd,y Wedn~sday Thurs~ay FridaYJ 
Q 2000 AocUWMthttr, IOG, COLO WARM ST.A.TION.A.RY 
@"""co ...... 
High L<1w Shower• Rain T-,tgrma Flurrlea Snow Ice Sunny Pl, Cloudy Ck>udy
Satuiday 
Atlanta 67 47 Las Vegas 75 55 Portland 65 51
~,,...S 
Baltimore 56 45 Memphis 70 45 Sacramento 69 57 Boston 50 44 Milwaukee 65 44 St. LOUIS 69 46


4,Q,~pQ.Q~~u 
Chicago 70 47 New York 52 46 Tampa 71 55 
Showen; T-storms Ra,n Flurries Snow IC8 S<Jnny Pt. Cloucly Cloudy 
Houston 64 52 Philadelphia 54 47 Washington DC 58 46 
Via Associalt1d Prs:1• Graph1caNel 

Tuesday, October 10, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



PricewaterhouseCoopers releases s-weatshop report 
and the conditions of the fac­
. Critics claim 
tories. In the rep-ort,report lacks concern Price w ate rho use Coopers 
based the conditions of the
for workers' rights 
factories primarily on the health and safety of the work­
By MYRA McGRJFF 
er, fair wages, benefits, and 
News Writer 
working hours. 
The severity of the discoveryPriccwaterh ou scCoopers, varied for each factory, but one of the largest auditing some critics did not find the 
firms paid to perform factory monitor­ "[PricewaterhouseCoopersJ can be accused ofnot  report accu­rate in its reporting of the true condi­ 
i 11 g rf'leased the first p u b I i c monitoring report  actually fixing the problem ofsweatshops and slave labor. We want to use local non-government alliance. "  tion of the fac­tories. "Everything they said is true but the conditions arc  
Friday  on  much  worse  
the condi­ Aaron Kreider  than  this,"  
tions  of  PSA member  said Maureen  
factories in countries like El  Capillo, Sa.int Mary's student and member  

Salvador. Mexico and Korea. of United Students AgainstThe report outlined the Sweatshops {USAS).methodology of their research In a published critique of 
Price water ho us eCoo p ers' PricewaterhouseCoopers car­findings, Professor Dara ried out their factory inspec­O'Rourke of MIT said the tions. especially in employee auditors found minor viola­interviews where managers tions of were present. labor laws "Until they 
and codes of "Until they do off-site, do off-site, 
conduct. confidential interviews confidential However, interviews
with employees 
they failed with cmploy­
to include PricewaterhouseCoopers e e s 
major labor will not be getting the full Pricewater­practice houseCoopers
story on how workers are
issues. will not be Some feel being treated. " getting the that the firm full story on did not pay how workers
Maureen Capillo
e n o u g h are being
USAS member
attention to trnated," said the worker Capillo. and their O'Rourke. rights. The intent of who accompanied PricewaterhouseCoopers was PricewaterhouseCoopers on to interview workers, look some factory visits, points out over factory records, and in his critique that the review timecards. The pub­Pri cew ate r-ho use Coopers lished report, however, failed to note workers in some appeared to send a different Korean factories had no pro­impression. tective gear on when handling 
Some saw bias in the way hot dye. 
Some critics believe over­sights like these cannot be dismissed. 
"There are no checks and balances to monitor how well the monitors are doing their job,'' said Capillo. 
Some Notre Dame students want the critiques of the Pricewater-houscCoopcrs to open the door for discussing a new system of monitoring fac­tories that produce Notre Dame apparel. Since 1999, the University, a member of the Fair Labor Association {FLA), has employed the firm to do their monitoring. 
Now with a public report, some students think it is time to reconsider monitoring options. 
"[The firmJ can be accused of not actually fixing the prob­lem of sweatshops and slave labor. We want to use local non-government alliance," said Aaron Kreider of the Progressive Student Alliance 
(PSA). 

While TIAA-CREF invests for the long term, it's nice to see performance like this. 


TIAA-CREF has delivered impressive results like these by combining two disciplined investment strategies. 
In our CREF Growth Account, one of many CREF vari­able annuities, we combine active management with enhanced indexing. With two strategies, we have 1YEAR 
SINCE INCEPTION 
AS OF 6/3 0/00 
4/29/94
two ways to seek out performance opportunities­helping to make your investments work twice as hard 


This approach also allows Combine this team approach with our low expenses us to adapt our investments and you'll see how TIAA-CREF stands apart from to different market the competition. Call and find out how TIAA-CREF conditions, which is can work for you today and tomorrow. especially important during volatile economic times. 

ii 
Ensuring the future 

1.800.842.2776 
for those who shape it.'M 


www.tiaa-cref.org 

For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest 1. TIAA-CREF expenses reflect the waiver of aportion of the Funds' investment management fees, guaranteed until July 1, 2003. 2. Source: Morningstar, Inc. 6/30/00, tracking 939 average large-cap growth annuity funds. 3. Due to current market volatility, our securities products' performance today may be less than shown above. The investment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original pnce upon redemption. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual iunds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust serv,ces. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 

Expectant mother of twins with one year old child seeks child core assistance in Granger 
Good Salary, Monclay-Friclay Call Jasmin 277-5106

@].
·~ 


lfil 

I~ 


I
~\ ASsor..
I r&-11

CE~lER FOR 

I
I JJt"'~­
SOCIAL 

-f 0
<C ::,
~ CONCERNS 
~ 
~ 
;i 
Thinking about how to spend next summer?
I 
Want to gain valuable experience?
I 
; II
I THEI 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT IS YOUR ANSWER! 
~
~ 
• SPEND 8 WEEKS PROMOTING SOCIAL JUSTICE TiiROUGH DIRECT SERVICE 
i ~ 
• 
CHOOSE FROM OVER 120 SITES ACROSS THE NATION 

• 
EARN 3 TIIEOLOGY CREDITS (WITH POSSIBLE CROSSL!STS) 


i ~ 
RECEIVE A $1900 TUlTJON SCHOLARSHIP FOR THE FALL 2001 SEMESTER
I • 
~ 
MAKE VALUABLE CONTACTS WITH ND ALUMNI 
i • 
~ 
~
~ 
THINK ABOUT IT... 
~
~ 
~
I • INFORMATIONAL MEETINGS AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
~
I 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24 AT 6:00 PM 
i
i WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8 AT 7:00 PM 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30 AT7:00 PM 
;~
i
i
@].
lfil 
Tuesday, October I 0, 2000
percent of the overall popular Travares. As Nader stepped oIT chairman of the Commission American people, that he vote," said Radcliffe. of the bus, debate officials and on Presidential Debates (CPD) should be able to express them
Nader 
"Rationally, it seems that sup­police officers confronted him. demanding an apology for the in a debate forum," said Notre port will even fade a litLlc bit "Imagine that, a private actions of the commission. Dame sophomore Adam
continued from page l 
as the election approaches." company -controlled by the He also released a proposed Harrison. 
less, iL probably will not be Even though his chances on two major parties and funded settlement, which states that Whether or not the CPD was 
enuugh to make a shift in the making a major impact on the by beer, tobacco, auto aud the CPD would not only allow at fault, however, remains 
overall outcome of the elec­overall election are low, the other corporations -misused him to enter all f'uture debates, ambiguous. 
tion." controversy over Nader's cam­police power but also "The Commission of 
In response to his inclusion paign continues to exist, and to exclude me donate Presidential Debates has set a on lhc Illinois ballot, Nader is will remain until it is seen how from the ''Nader owns only about $25,000 to certain standard for those hosting a rally in Chicago many states place him on I.heir premises, 5 percent ofthe overall the nonprof­allowed into a debate," Tillery today. It is unclear whether ballots. even though I it Appleseed said. "Whether or not that
popular vote. Rationally.
other states will follow Illinois' Lust week, the fiasco con-had a ticket to Center for ' standard has changed mid­lead and cerning the enter issued it seems that support will Electoral stream, I'm not sure, but it allow Nader lack of repre­by the debate even Jade a little bit as Reform at seems as though Nader war­to be "This is the beginning of senl.ation of commission 1-Iarvard ranted enough support to be
the election approaches." 
Nader's cam­themselves," Law School. invited."
included on the end ofthe 
the ballot in paign reached Nader.said, as Although his Recently, however, Nader's
Commission on
November. a new level. reported by Benjamin Radcliffe requests luck has taken a turn for the It may be Presidential Debates." Not only was t h e government professor may seem better. The Illinois State board too curly to he neglected Associated extreme, of Elections is scheduled to put make any participation Press. N a d e r Nader on the November ballot
Ralph Nader 
accurate in the Oct. 3rd Nader was promised .to at a meeting on Wednesday.
Green Party
judgments debate at the also prohibited to participate pursue redemption in the legal This decision conl1icts with the as to how presidential candidate University of in a planned interview with system if his requests are not views of the Democratic Party much Nader Massachusetts Fox News, whose trailer was· met by today. of Illinois, who requested that will affect in Boston, but located on the site of the The public response to Nader be held off of the ballot. the election, because it is not he was refused admittance by debate. Nader's exemption from the "It is easy to say that a large c!ear how many st-ates wi II the debate commission to "This is the beginning of the debates seems to indicate that number of liberal voters will place Nader on their ballots. watch the debate. end of the Commission on the CPD was at fault for not vote for Nader," Hadclilfo said, 
Nevertheless, Nader's Nader had a valid ticket to Presidential Debates," Nader allowing his participation. "When push comes to shove, it attempt to make a large the presidential debate view­said. "Although Nader's chances will be interesting to soc impact on the upcoming elec-, ing in Lipke Auditorium, which In response to his exdusion at becoming president are far­whether or not the third party tion is unlikrily. was given to him by from the debate, Nader fetched, his views are repre­wilt make a significant impact 
"Nader owns only about 5 Northeastern student Tod released a statement to the co-sentative of enough of the as the election approaches." 

AAAHHHHH. • .midterm week!! NOacousticafe NOmovies@debartolo NOsleeRformostofus 
after breakafterbreakafterbreakafterbreakafterbreakafterbreakafterbreakafterbreak 
The Patriot & The Exorcist movies@debartolo Get ready for ToM DeluCa! ! Hypnotist extrordonoire. 
SUB WISHES EVERYONE A GREAT FALL BREAK 


ATION 
Tuesday, Ocrober I0, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Netherlands releases reporter: A 
Dutch court ordered the release of a journalist Monday who was jailed two weeks ago for refusing to divulge the name of a police source. In a case almost unheard of in the Netherlands, Koen Voskuil, of the daily commuter newspaper Sp!ts. was arrested Sept. 22 after he defied the judge's order to name his source at the trial of a suspccted drug and arms tra!Ticker. 
Vatican reconsiders Wilde: An inllu­cntial Jesuit publication has rehabilitated Oscar Wilde, the Irish writer once jailed fur homosex­ual acts, praising him for a later turn to spiritu­ality and a deathbed conversion to Roman Catholicism.Tim article marking the centenary of Wilde's death came in La Civilita Cattolica, a quarterly whose articles arc often endorsed by the Vatican. which condemns homosexuality. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Female Santa suit dismissed: A dis­crimination complaint filed against Wal-Mart for barring a female employee from playing Santa Claus was thrown out Monday by a state panel that said the woman wasn't con­vincing. Customer sPrvir.e representative Marta Brown volunteered for the role in 1995, dressing in traditional Santa garb. Managers elected to go with a male Santa after a customer said her child had asked about Santa's breasts. 
Siamese twin dies after separation: 
A 6-month-old Siamese twin who was surgi­cally separated from her sister died Monday, three days after the operation. Janice Luna and her sister, Janlean, were born joined at the abdomen and shared a liver, kidney and bladder. They were separated during a 17­hour operation Friday at Babies Children's Hospital in New York. But Janice died of com­plications. the hospital said. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Entrepeneur creates coffin furni­ture: Just in time for llalloween, a company is peddling a line of products that would make Count Drac.:ula red with envy: coffin furniture. Terre llaute manufacturer Brad Miller created the cotnn furniture a year ago with a business partner who had devised 101 uses for the aver­age wooden coffin, aside from the usual pur­pose. "What we decided on this was that this was the ultimate conversation piece. We have a molto that you should get to know your coffin before you're buried in it," said Miller, whose family owned-business, Fort Harrison Produc1s Corp., has been around since 1937. 
Market Watch 10/9 
Dow 
10,568.43 -28.11 
]ONES 
Composite
Up: Same: 
Volume:I.261 496 
1,181,516,544 
AM'EX: 921.90 +1.19 
Nasdaq: 3355.56 -5.45 
NYSE: .653.55 . +2.57 
S&P 500: 1402.03 -6.96 
• 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANYISECURJTY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
TNTEL CORP {TNTC) -2.20 -0.87 3').06 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -4.44 ~2.49 53.69 DELL COMPUTER (DELL) _. 1.21 ;Q,j{J 25.Gl MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -2.47 -1..37 54.19 NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ) -IJAG -IJ.JH 82.Gl 
C0!\1PILEO FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
ISRAEL 

AFP Photo Palestinian protesters throw stones at Israeli defense force troops in clashes at the Ayosh Junction in Ramallah, West Bank Monday. Some 89 people, mostly Palestinians, have been killed in 12 days of clashes. 
Jews, Arabs promote civil unrest 
suburbs took to the streets in anger. 
Three Arab-owned apart­mcnl<; in a mixed neighbor­hood were set on lire. Tires burned in the streets and protesters chanted "Death to the Arabs." Police and Israeli camera crews were hit with bottles and stones. 
Many Israeli Arabs have joined in the protests that hav(J engulfed the West Bank and Gaza Strip in the past 12 days. Ten Israeli Arabs have been killed in clashes with police. The demonstrations have rattled Israeli Jews, who feel Israel's very survival could be threatened by an inter­nal rebellion. 
NMCP rates hotels' promise progress 
Associated Press 
TEL AVIV 
In the worst civil strife in years, Jews and Arabs attacked each other Mondav in towns across Israel. · 
In Tel Aviv, Jews chanted "Death to the Arabs," burned tires and smashed the windows of Arab cars, prompting the mayor of the usually tranquil seaside metropolis to ask residenl<; to stay indoors. Arabs in several northern Israeli towns threw stones at pass­ing Israeli vehicles, damag­ing several, police said. 
In a special televised mes­sage, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak appealed to Arabs and Jews to end the violence against one anoth­er. 
"I call on all Israeli citi­zens to refrain from vio­lence," Barak said. "To the Jewish citizens, refrain at all costs from injuring Arabs and their property. To Arab citizens, refrain from being led by an extreme minority that wants to bring down the portrait of life in this coun­try." 
"We are a nation that experienced much suffering as a minority throughout the world. Anyone who hurts a minority that lives among us, hurts the very 
core of our society," he said. 
"This ugly cycle must end, it will leave scars that are not simple but it is within our power together to over­come them." 
The night before, hun­dreds of Arabs and Jews had attacked each other with stones and fists in the streets of Nazareth, the town of Jesus' boyhood. Two Israeli Arabs were killed by rubber bullets fired by police. 
As Barak spoke Monday night at the end of Yorn Kippur, the Day of Atonement, or holiest day of the Jewish calendar, hun­dreds of Jews in Tel Aviv 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 
The nation's 11 major hotel chains have not kept their promises to improve business opportunities for blacks, the NAACP said Monday in urging people to avoid "underper­forming" companies. 
In its fourth annual report card, the nation's largest and oldest civil rights organization gave the chains a grade of C-minus. Last year, the NAACP had said the hotel chains improved some­what. 
NAACP President Kweisi Mfume urged people "to avoid spending do!­
lars in failing or underperforming hotel chains." 
"Sustained progress has not been as fast as we had hoped, nor has it been as fast as it has been promised," he said. 
Marriott International earned a B from the NAACP; Hilton Hotels Corp., C-plus; and Hyatt Hotels Corp, C-plus. The NAACP issued grades of C to sev­eral major chains and grades below C to four hotel chains. Last year, no chain got a grade lower than a C. 
When the first survey was conduct­ed in 1997, the NAACP and 55 other black organizations urged a boycott of 10 national hotel chains because of their hiring and promotion practices, and gave several chains an F for not participating in the survey. 
The NAA.CP bases the grades on the hotels' hiring practices, charitable donations and advertising. Hotels were also graded on whether fran­chise opportunities are offered to blacks and whether the hotels use black contractors. 
"We are disappointed with the grade and we pledge to do better," said Fred Stern, a spokesman for Wyndham, one of the hotels receiving a D. "We don't have a question with the survey. We think it is a valuable service that is helpful to the industry as a whole." 
J 
Tuesday, October I0, 2000
HAITI 
Aristide plans to run in one-sided election 
l'OHT•AU-PHINCE, Haiti 
Former President Jean­Bertrand Aristide registered Monday to run in a presiden• tial election that all major opposition parties are boy­cotting, virtually guarantee­ing him victory. 
Outside the electoral coun­ci I office w h e r e 
Aristide liled 
"Today we have taken a
his candida­torship in 
cy, his sup­historic step on the road t h e 
porters toward peace.,. Caribbean danced to a country. carnival T h e band and army oust­
Jean-Bertrand Aristide shouted former Haitian president ed Aristide 
favor candidates allied to Aristide, who they claim is plotting to return Haiti to dic­tatorship. 
Aristide became president when he won 1990 elections in a landslide to become Haiti's first freely elected leader in nearly 200 years of military and civil­ian dicta­
Saint Ma;ffi~s Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME · INDIANA 
Th~ N•tlon'.s Premier Catholic Wornon'.s Co/lag• 

Informational Meeting 6:30-7:30 p.m., Tuesday, October 10 

~0J;~t 
Courses offered in Biology, Music, Philosophy, and Psychology. 
For further information contact: 
Professor Thomas Parisi Department of Psychology Saint l\riary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone (219) 284-4462 / Fax (219) 284-4866 e-mail: tparisi@saintmarys.edu 
(E-mail is best!) 

Visit Th~ O~i:;;:~er online at www.nd.edu/~observer
·,,:>;:-:,:,C:::=:t 
Aristidc's campaign slogan: "Peace of Mind! Peace in the Belly!" 
"Today we have taken a historic step on the road toward peace," Aristide said as he left. 
lie had waited until the last day to register for the Nov. 26 elections, which will include nine Senate seats and 
one  in  the  House  of  
Assembly.  
Aristide's  victory  is  an  

almost foregone conclusion with the opposition boycott, which leaves only four other little-known candidates in the race. The opposition par­ties charge May-July legisla­tive elections were rigged to 
in 1991 
and he was restored three years later by U.S. troops deployed to end military killings of civilians and stem a flood of Haitian boat people to Florida. 
Aristide was barred from running for a second consec­utive term. His hand-picked successor, Rene Preval. won in December 1995 elections. 
Haiti has remained mired in poverty and power strug­gles. The country was with­out a parliament for nearly 1 1/2 years after Preval dis­missed uncooperative legisla­tors who charged 1997 leg­islative elections were fraud­ulent. 

I : . 
f 
--. ----------------­
Tuesday, October 10, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 
September 25-October 30 103 Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #31 (Nov. 3-4, 2000) 
Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Farley, Keough, Howard, Dillon, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, Sorin 
Monday-Tuesday, October 9-10 11 :30 pm-10:00pm 
St. Paul's Chapel. Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, October 10. 3:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Endowed Chair Inaugural Mass 
Tuesday. October 10, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday. October 10, 7:00 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Confirmation-Session #2 
Wednesday, October 11, 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Friday-Saturday, October 13-14 
Fatima Retreat Center 
Marriage Preparation Retreat #1 
Occasionally in life there are those moments ofum,tteral,le fo!fillment flJbicb cannot l,e completely explained l,y those sy,,,1,ols calledwords. Their meaningcan only l,e articalatedl,y the inmulil,le language oftbe heart. 
Martin Luther King, jr. 

112 Badin Hall 631-5242 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
email ministry.1@nd.edu 
web www.nd.edu/~ ministry March 2001 Coleman-Morse Center 
Van leaves from Main Circle at 10:00 am on Wednesday, October 18 
Returns by 8:00 pm on Thursday, October 19 
Lindenwood Retreat Center in Donaldson, IN 
Register today by calling Chandra Johnson at 1-3749. 
All are welcome! 
EMMAUS 
Communities of Faith Shanng and Scnpture Study 
Join a faith-sharing group today.! 
~ 
W(j 
Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual Students and their Friends. 
Meet weekly on Wednesday Night for discussion andprayer. 
Coming Soon: Sixth Annual Retreat• November 17th-18th. 
For more information, please contact: Tami Schmitz 1-3016 Schmitz.8@nd.edu• Tom Doyle,C.S.C. 1-4112 Doyle.22@nd.edu 

Prayer Opportunity 
Prayer. Nusjc. Prajse. 

Ewery Wednesday @ Io p.m.
lnte~ tlffi1iii11 
feaiunn9 -the Celebra1illon Cho•r 
[ffr;!ht IJ2ii'Yer ALL ARE WELCOME 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 8 BSERVER Tuesday, October 10, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
r O Bo, Q. Norrc Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Damt, IN 465% 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR OrERA·noNS MANAGER 
Chri,tine Kra I y Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR, Anne Marie Matcingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR, Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR, Kerry Smirh SCENE EDITOR, Amanda Greco SAIITT MARYS EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDl'fOR, Eli1.abcth L1ng 
ADVERTISING MANAGF.R, Pat Peters AD DESIGN MANAGU: Chris Avil.1 SYSTl'MS ADMINISTRATOR, Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR; Adam Turn~r C0NTR0Ll.£R: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFt·tcE MANAGEIUGl:NERAI. INF0..............631-7471 FAX....................................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING..................................631-6900/8840 
obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmmRIA.ssr. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINF.SS OFFICE.. ......................................631-5313 
N1-.-ws..........................................................63 l-S323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS .................. .....................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO....................... ............................631-8767 SVSTEMS/WF.B ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://ob1m,,r.nd.edu for daily updates of campu.s news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhc Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
wcachu for up-to-the 
movie.s/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
onlinc features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campu.s coverage 
acchive.s co search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universicy of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials rcpic:scnt the opinion of the majoricy ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available 10 all readers. The free c:xprcssion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.etrers ro the Editor musr be signed and must include contact information. 
Qun11om rtgardlr1g Obsm,rrpolicies ,ho,./d be dir«l· ,dro liditor in ChirfMikr Connolly. 
Financing education around the world and at home 
This fall the air of Salzburg, Innsbruck, Vienna and other Austrian cities has been overwhelmed by the sound of voic­es of thousands of students shouting in protest. Sheets bearing words of anger and frustration hang from the windows of the arts and letters building at the University of Innsbruck. Each morning cager under­grads pass newspa­pers and leaflets out to those departing class. The red-let­tered headlines of these documents of protest decry "Studien-Gcbiihren," the pay­ment by students directly for their education. Formerly, the Austrian state covered the cost of a university education with the taxes paid within Austria's socialistic system. This system also provides citizens with health care and pension. 
The majority parties in the Austrian government, the OVP and FPb. instituted the 5,000 schilling per semester cost in order to eliminate problems within the Austrian educational system. The univer­sities frequently lack the funds to make improvements and to update technology. Professors within the Austrian system often accept better paying positions in other countries like the United States. Free tuition also has led to a phenome­non in the country: perpetual students. Scholars, unwilling or hesitant to join the "real world," may spend years at the uni­versity in various programs and schools, occupying the precious few seats avail­able to students and thereby preventing first year students from entering the uni­versity. The once-a-semester charge is intended to force college students to fin­ish their schooling earlier. 
For many reasons the institution of tuition at the university has sparked 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Supporting abortion as Christians 
After reading Maribel Morey's column in the Monday, Oct. 11 edition of The Observer I was relieved and thankful to have finally heard a sympathetic, intelli­gent, reasonable and thus truly Christian position on abortion. I have been disgust­ed in the past by those "pro-life" factions which claim to be Christian while at the same time promoting their position using the tools of violence, intimidation, false rhetoric and emotional manipulation. as well as supporting fascist government control of women's lives and bodies. 
These "Christians" attempt to usurp that exclusive right of God to judge human actions. Every person does have a right to their opinion, and because I respect that right very much I would never stoop to such tactics as bullying others into agreement or silence. I would never believe myself to be so infallible that I was qualified to propose laws that make disagreeing with my morality ille­gal. What false righteousness! The the­atrics and name calling which most "pro­lite" groups resort to would be laughably childish if it were not so vicious. If people arc confident their position is reasonable protests throughout Austria. No decrease in taxes for parents or students accom­panies the 5,000 schilling charge, equiv­alent to about. $320. Within the Austrian socialistic system all money flows first to the state. Consequently no guarantee exists that the university will receive an appropriate amount of money from the new funds. 
Somfl fefll that this alteration of Austrian tradition comes too early. The universities still do not pos­sess the necessary resources to compensate for their higher price. My roommate, for example, found some of the requirnd courses for her first year in the College of Business to be closed. Should she be unable io enroll in these classes next year the possibility of a required fitth year and the payment of another 10,000 schillings for her education looms. 
Unfortunately the Austrian government and the universities stand in a "Catch-22" position on this issue. They wish to improve the school and to expand the limited educational possibilities and openings, yet to accom­plish this goal, they require money from the students that cannot find classes or openings in the university programs. 
The new tuition also forces Austrian students, like American students, to deal with the issue of fmancing an education. Forty-seven percent of Austrian students must work to obtain the necessary 1000 schillings per month. 
One of the banners adorning our classroom building speaks to the plight of such students and offers a connection to the problems of higher education in America. It reads. translated from German, "am poor. stay dumb." Fortunately in the United States financial aid and scholarships exist to help poor students, yet these limited resources ofterrleave students behind. Frequently, only the wealthy can afford the price tag and correct, there is no reason or excuse to resort to such tactics. 
By assuming themselves to be qualified to harshly judge other people, "pro-life" factions leave themselves open to the judgment of others. And by all sympa­thetic, intelligent. reasonable people, including all true Christians, such behav­ior must be found reprehensible. 
Natalie Huddleston 
senior off-campus 0cc. 9, 2000 
of an education at a nationally known university and possess tile access to good grammar schools and high schools that allow children to succeed and achieve a high academic level. Yet. the expansion of the American economy and the coun­try as a whole requires the education of the majority of the population at the col­lege level and beyond. 
Both Al Gore and G,mrge W. Bush have proposed plans to help parents. 
employers and students finance higher education. Gore supports · the College Opportunity Tax 
Cut. a tax deduction or 28 per­cent tax credit on up to 
$10,000 in tuition and 401 K accounts that would allow individuals and employers to save money for education tax free. Bush proposes an 
expansion in the Education Savings Accounts program that would raise the annual 
contribution limit from $500 to $5000. He also endorses a $1.5 billion "College Challenge" grant 
to help establish a merit scholarship program through each state and the complete tax-exemption for all qualified tuition savings plans. Hegardless of the outcome of the election Americans should pressure their representatives to accept such proposals that could allevi­ate in America some of the issues of financing education now felt across the globe. 
As I glance at a Oorescent-yellow poster plastered to the front entrance of my class building that encourages stu­dents to engage in an Oct. 11 protest, the similarity in the concerns between stu­dents here in Austria and in the United States strikes me again. 
Joanna Mikulski is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. She is spending the semester abroad in Innsbruck. Austria. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
YOU'RE CLOSE. I'M 
THE GUY WHO 
FORWARDS YOUR CALL TO THE WR.ONG 
PERSON. 

: 
;; 
C
.. u 
"' 
;. ~ 
... ! 
~ 
g 
~ 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I'D LIKE TO SPEAK WITH YOUR SUPERVISOR. 
I'LL FOR­WARD 
YOUR 
CALL.

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"All political ideas cannot and should not be channeled into the programs ofour two major parties. History has amply proved the virtue ofpolitical activity by minority, dissident groups." 
Earl Warren former Supreme Court Justice 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Tuesday, October 10, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Seeking votes for third party candidates 

Buchanan truly represents many pro-life Republicans 
The winner-take-all electoral college makes it highly probable that George Bush will capture Indiana on election day. Even though Al Gore may win the presidency. Indiana Democrats 
.voting for him instead of Ralph Nader will have wasted their vote. Nader needs 5 percent of the total presidential vote in order to create a long lasting progressive third party -the Green Party. 
Indiana Democrats, don't waste vour vote! Vote Nader! Check out www.voten~der.org. 
John Cassella Denver, CO Sept. 18, 2000 
Buchanan released the following statement. 
"George W. Bush sold out the pro­life movement and stacked arms in the battle for our unborn children. Rather than denouncing the FDA decision that certified the culture of death by legalizing a human pesti­cide, he focused on keeping women safe while they kill their babies. His mild 'disappointment' rings hollow, and his pathetic concession that abortion should be 'rare' betrays the cause of life. Today conservatives see Big Tent Republicanism's final desti­nation: no litmus tests, no principled stands, no changes in the status quo. This assault on their ideals will not go unchallenged, for in this election there is another candidate fighting their cause -one with the courage to stand where the GOP stumbled in Boston." 
For those of you that are strongly pro-life and disappointed with the weak support of the Republican national leaders, now is your chance to make a statement. Bush will win Indiana. A Democrat has not won here since LBJ in 1964 and the next before him was FDR in 1932. He is leading strongly in the polls and most analysts list Indiana as solidly in Bush's camp. But you can make a statement. You will not give Indiana's elect.oral votes to Gore, so vote your conscience. 
Show national headquarters that there is a group of conservatives that do not like the back of the bus. If Pat Buchanan gets at least 5 per­cent of the vote they will have him and his views and support to con­tend with in 2004. You are not wast­ing your vote. You are making a statement. You are building an opposition party. 
Paul Reszel 
Fort Wayne, IN Ocr. 5, 2000 

Vote Nader to build Green Party 
Human embryo research destroys life 
Let's talk about your tax dollars at work. On Aug. 23 the National Institutes of Health (NIH) issued final guidelines on federal funding for research on "human pluripotent stem cells derived from human embryos (tech­ni<;ally known as human embryonic stem cells)." The stud­ies will be funded "only if the cells were derived (without fed­eral funds) from human embryos that were created for the purposes of fertility treatment and were in excess of the clini­cal need of the indi­viduals seeking such treatment." 
The cells can be used to form any tissue of the human body except the placenta. Scientists hope the cells could play a role in curing Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, heart disease, diabetes. spinal cord injuries, burns and other ailmenL'>. 
There is just one catch. The human embryo, preserved by freezing, is not just a mass of cells. It is a human being. As Fr. Joseph C. Howard. Jr., of the American Bioethics Advisory Commitiee, put it, "to obtain stem cells from a human embryo necessitates the removal of the inner cell mass which each and every time destroys a human life." 
"Even if NIH doesn't grant funds to destroy human embryos." said C. Ben Mitchell, senior fellow of the Center for Bioethics and Human Dignity," it is encouraging those who do by producing a 'market' for those cells." In this process. human beings are reduced to objects of utility and ultimately com­cell research and other alternatives. Last merce. A trade already exists in fetal tis­week ... NIH-funded researchers sue-and we can expect one to develop in announced that they can produce a vir­embryonic stem cells. tually limitless supply of new nerve cells 

Jt might be argued that these for transplants from patients' 
frozen embryos would be dis­
carded and die anyway. 
But how is killing them L' 
for their cells different /from what the Nazis did in harvesting the organs of Jews and other living inmates who were going to die anyway? And why not harvest the heart, kid­neys, etc.. of living persons on death row? And comatose patients whom nobody wants? "for the first time in history, our federal government will promote research in which developing human beings arc destroyed," said Richard Doerflinger, of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops. Doerflinger also noted that, 
"The claim that embryonic stem-cell research is needed for new many people is ... a noble venture, but medical advances has been rebutted by never at the expense of human life. It is numerous breakthroughs in adult stem-absolutely forbidden to directly destroy 
own bone-marrow stem cells. This approach 'over­comes the ethical and immunologic concerns associated with the use of fetal tis­
sue."' 
"The Catholic / Church is not opposed to / adult stem-cell ~ research or 
I stem-cell research on umbilical cords because these proce­dures do not endanger life," said Cardinal 
Anthony Bevilacqua of Philadelphia. "But the only -way to acquire the embryonic stem cells is to destroy a human life. Must we end one human life attempting to benefit another? Research to treat a wide range of dis­eases and disorders that affiict 
one innocent human being to help anoth­
er." 
In our pagan culture of death, we 
regard the intentional infliction of death 
as a legitimate and optional problem­
solving technique. And law is a matter of 
will rather than reason. Whatever the 
State decrees is the law. unlimited by 
any higher standard of justice. In that 
culture of death, the human person is 
defined in functional terms. He is valued 
not for what he is, "an immortal being 
endowed with unalienable rights by his 
Creator," but for what he can do or for 
how he can be used for the benefit of 
others. We started down this road when, 
through the contraceptive ethic, we 
made man rather than God the arbiter of 
when and how life shall begin and, with 
abortion and euthanasia, of when and 
how it shall end. Tax-funded research on 
human embryonic stem cells is a pre­
dictable application of this utilitarian 
logic. And the end is not yet in sight. 
"Not since the exploits of German sci­
ence in the earlier part of this century," 
wrote columnist Paul Greenberg. "have 
so many rationalizations been produced 
for experimenting on human tissue." 
Don't think of it as a human being in 
embryo. And if all these sophisticated 
rationalizations still don't quite convince, 
then remember that they probably 
sounded a lot better in the original 
German. And ignore that still small voice 
in the back of your mind that keeps 
whispering: "This is wrong." 
Charles Rice is a professor in the Notre .Dame Law School. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are 
those ofthe -author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Radiohead releases long anticipated Kid A 
Band combines music, art and poetry to create an album that has significance far beyond that ofa mere compact disc 
By SAM DERHEIMER 
As.sisr~nr Scene fdiror 
Radiohead has always pushed the boundaries of music. Mom than any other band, it has consistently taken its fans far and beyond the standard frame­work of the mainstr('am music industry. Composed of lead vocalist 
Thom York, 
guitarists Jon 

Greenwood 
and Ed 
O'Brien. bassist Colin Greenwood and drummer Phil Selway, Hadiohead is one of the most creative and brilliant rock bands ever lo come upon the scene. 
No one can do what lladiohead does. 
With the group's fourth studio record, Kid A. the live childhood friends from England have created something that goes beyond anything that has been heard before. Kid A is nothing short of an artistic masterpiece. 
Kid A is by far Hadiohead's most experi­mental album, capitalizing on the complex and distinctive sounds the band has become known for. 
There is no reason to Kid A, no explana­tion. Many of the sounds on the album seem alm.()st foriegn, irregular, York's vocals arc twisted and tangled. and yet. in the C!nd, everything comes together. 
Though at the surface, the sounds of the songs seem almost to not want an}1hing to do wilh each other, a step back reveals the true intricate complexity and layered engi­neering of the album. Kid I\ was not creat­ed to make sense on the surface. That's the way Hadiohcad operates. Listeners are forced to clear their minds and listen to what is really there. 
For the most part, Kid A's sound is slow. mellowed and beautiful. York also pro­vides no liner notes this time around, serv­ing only to intensify the listener's own ulti­mate decent into the chaotic nature of the album. 
Kid A is more than just a studio album. It 
is a work of art. It is a trance. It is the sub­conscious of York por­trayed through musical notes. vocal chords and artwork. 
The album opens with "Everything In Its Hight Place." A title that may be the biggest paradox of the entire CD. Nothing seems to be in its right place on this song. Meaning and music alike are jum­bled, mixed and lost. Yet. in the end, it linds its perfect harmony. It's as if the band took a deck of cards. threw them into the air and 
they landed in a perfect card house any­way. 
The track begins with York struggling to !ind his voice, "Kid A .. Kid A... Kid A." As he comes into his own, linding the strength and confidence to sing out, he carries the 1is ten c r 

with him. ml:'m.i'iimi''ililliliiiipiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!al 
away from 11111•11 iui ,ialitii reality and THI INNDCENlY into a realm RA\HEEN~EDTOTHtmN 
f Ir IJ-1~~1.JP.X 
~e~~l~~~r~ J!i'Ji~ii 
and deep-MXRTONEITE.~ .,,.__;,.,.;;;;::,;, :w"'"' 
rooted psy-Fooo 18 Fooo~~al~~~ll/=~ ~...TH1S rs 1HfSOUNO 
~1\~r: ia~~ 
...,.,i~FrnflND 
two colors SEX rs SEY \Lr.';1f1~\'i/;"..f:Ji'~!':"J
\:::~\P.tff11Il l'i\A~OOl'f'tCT.,: ,~i·,·t>\•,,.1hL,11111,wi.;:,.,.,,w .. in my INfiiixli"aiifii:i'""'·""-~--. head... " Art courtesy of Capital Records 
bringing the music to the 
Kid A 
listener, H's as if B.adiohead is 
Radiohead
bringing the listener to it. Kid A was 
Capitol Records engineered to invoke a trance like quality, as 
Rating one song llows into the next, leaving .......... 

the listener feeling as if he was scooped in, lost and floating through the innermost recesses or York's own consciousness. 
However, not everything on the album is necessarily so transcendant and supernat­ural. 
"The National Anthem" mixes a more traditional Radiohead style with horns and saxs, giving it a pop/big band feel the band has experimented with little on previous relea.s­es. The song is amazing, and a true example of the brilliance of Badiohead and the true musicianship these men possess. 

"How To 
D i s a p p e a r 
Completely" . is 
one of the best 
and most beauti­
r I K·ct 
A~ ~o;egsp~~si~n 
and haunting
pain conveyed 
~~;:l~ga~e ri:.0%~ 
parable to anything fans have heard before, "In a little while, I'll be gonnl The moment has already passed/ 
Unlike anything-Radiohead has ever pro-Yeah, it's gone/ And I'm not herf'lThis isn't duced before, unlike anything anyone has happening." ever produced before, Kid A blurs the line Even York's own past work barely com­between listener and musician. Instead of pares to the strength of his vocal talent on 
songs like "! low to Disappear Completely," "Optimistic" and "ldioteque." 
Besides its haunt­ing vocals, "ldioteque" is a strong example of the band's willing­ness to branch out its sound on Kid A. With a somberlv beautiful and almost eerie dance­like bPat, the song is an immediate standout. Above all the other songs on the album, this is tht~ one die-hard fans will either love or hale. But either way, it can not be ignored. 
The reuird ends with "Motion p i C t U r e Soundtrack,'; a track so divergent from mainstream song writing and yet so extraordi­nary in its composi­

Kid A Is a powerful ride of emotion and somber beauty, and marks serious musical growth within the band. tion, it is the per­The artwork of Kid A (seen within the story above) Is as much a part of the album as the music. fect culmination to 
such an irregular album. 
Tangled amid the sounds of sort organs 
and jubilant harps, York's lyrics cry a story 
of sadness and loss, "Stop sending letters/ 
Letters always get burrwcl/ It's not lik(1 the 
movies/ They fed us on little\ white lies/ I 
think you're crazy, maybe/ I think you're 
crazy, maybe/ I will se(• you in tlw nnxt 
life." 
The starch 
c I a s h 
between 
lyrics and 
music gives 
the song sub­
stance 
bnyond mere 
sheet lyrics 
or musical 
notes. The 
way the song 
as a whole 
still achieves 
an almost 
immaculate 
harmony 
exemplifies 
the disorder and impeccable perfection that arc in con­stant battle throughout the record. 
Kid A is more than just a music album. With a CD booklet composed of nothing but artwork and another booklet or poetry and art hidden within the album case, Hadiohead has created something far more expressive and signilicant than a mere music album. The poetry and art­work complement the purity of York's voice and the band's sound with an intense perfection. 
Badiohead songs am composPCI as much of emotion as thny are or sound. With Kid 
A. the band lirmly stakes its claim as onP of the most gifted and talented bands in rock historv. These are tnw musicians. These are true artist'>. 
No one can do what Hacliolwacl does. Kid A is mernly thc1 product of thier genius. 
Album Track List 
Radiohead 
Kid A 
1. 
Everything In Its Hight Place 

2. 
Kid A ~-The National Anthem 


4. 
How To Disappear Completely 

5. 
Trccfingcrs 


6. 
Optimistic 

7. 
In Limbo 

8. 
ldioteque 

9. 
Morning Bell lO. Motion Picture Soundtrack 



-
C 
Tuesday, October 10, 2000 page I I 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Elastica's five-year break yields no original sound 
By TODD CALLAIS 
Scene Music Critic 
In 1995, Elastica·s self-titled first full-length release became one of the fastest selling albums in United Kingdom history, and did fairly well in thf' United States as well. The band's girl-vocals-meet­raw-Hritish-punk sound created hits such as "The Car Song." "Stutter," "Hold Mc Now," "Connection" and "Line up." Then the band seemed t() fall off the facC' of the planet for fi\'e years, although they did release a couple rarities and live tracks in 1999. 
However Justine Frischmann. Annie Holland and the rest are back with their second full-length album. The Menace. This album is a textbook exam­ple of a hit or miss record that will have some fans claiming "Elastica is back1" but most wishing that they had worked on the album for another five vears. · The Menace has some definite high points. The opening song, "Maddog," is one of the strongest on the album and ls reminiscent of the Elastic a of old. This song has an awesome beat that appeals to gui­tar junkifls, techno aficionados and euro-punk fans alike. The most impressive part of this song is actu­ally that the opening and chorus feature sound effects from the old GT-9 keyboards from 1984 and 1985. 
The second track, ''Generator," is another high point that has great keyboards and increible vocals 
. that seem inspired by tracks from one of the newer euro bands, Bis. "Love Like Ours,'' displays lead vocalist Frischmann 's depth in writing slower songs. This track combines dreary vocals, really cool but basic guitar rifts and eerie keyboards to create a great listen. In a lighter and more nos­talgic look at television com­mercials, Elastica covers the car commer­cial theme (a song originally produced in the 1980s by Trio) "Da Da ·oa" in surprisingly entertaining fashion. However, this time around. the vocals are no longer as monot­
one. and you discover that there are actu­ally more lyrics to the song than just "da da da." 
Also worth mention are the songs "How We Wrote Elastica Man" and "Nothing Stays the Same.'' 
Despite such 
..
great efforts by the band. there arc still some serious prob­
Elastica 
lems with the album. 
Atlantic Records 
Tracks like 

"Image Change," "Human" and "KB" are so bad they should be 

buried. "Miami ... Nice" is just a long. drawn out instrumental that could be described as three minutes of build up with no climax. The songs indicate that Elastica has not yet managed to master the electronica movement in guitar. 
Another potential problem with the album is its lack of originality. They cover one song, borrow the guitar parts for two songs from a group named Wire and on another song, they borrow guitars from the Velvet Underground. 
Now, of course, this does not mean that the album is not worth hearing, but it does serve to make one wonder what on earth Frischmann and Elastica have been doing over the past five years. 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Green Day moves away from pure punk past 
past material. The track is a four songs with violins in the back­By TIM COLLINS minute acoustic song in which ground have gotten a little bit 
Scene Music Critic 
lead singer, Billie Joe Armstrong. old by this point -it is the last 
warns the listener not to "shut track on the album. But Billie
In a month where .record up and be the victim of authori­Joe still does deliver some of the 
sales look like they will be ty." The song actually works better lyrics from the album on dominated by rock groups like really well and even though it the song when he sings, 'Tm U2 and Hadiohead, those Bay may not remind listeners of the thinking about a brand new Arca punk rockers, Green Day, band's earlier albums, it is one of hope, the one that I've never are back with their fourth major the better songs on the album. known. 'Cause now I know it's label album release, Warning. "Ilold On" is anchored by a great all I ever wanted." 
The band has had an impres­acoustic guitar riff and a har­The band still does whip-out sive string of hits since 1994's monica and sounds great. some of those classic three breakthrough smash, Dookic, Some of the experiments do minute punk songs, but on this and it had its biggest hit with the not work as well as "Warning" album, they seem a little bit acoustic single "Time Of Your or "Hold On," though. "Misery" is more produced and polished Life" in 1998 from the Nimrod a complete failure. The song than before. "Blood, Sex and album. But this latest album tries to be a little too deep as. Booze" sounds like it will just finds thri band going in a totally they sing of "the catastrophic scrPam out, but actually ends up IJe'I\ direction and, in some hymns from yesterday of mis­sounding like the band is hold­ways. abandoning it;; true punk ery." For this band. it just docs ing bark. GrPen Day nePds to background. not work. turn up the amp another notch 
The album's opening track, "Macy's Day Parade" does a on this album. "Warning,"' shows how dilTerent better job than "Misery,'' but the But the band still docs achieve the album sounds from their band's attempts at aCO\JStic some great successes on 
Warning. "Church on Sunday" is 
right-on. Billie Joe talks about a 
serious commitment that is 
headed for marriage ("If you live 
with me. I'll die for. you and this 
compromise.") "Waiting" also screams out; "I want to be the It is a good step for the band, 
stands out. This song's sound is minority. I don't need your showing that it does not just
instantly catchy and is driven by authority. Down with the moral want to be has-been punk rock­
the pounding drums ofTre Cool. majority." The verses feature ers. 
The best song on the album is some of the most catchy lyrics in But it is a far cry from the pure 
also the first single, "Minority." recent rock, and after one listen, punk album that Rancid released 
The song is already No. 1 on get stuck in the listener's head. this summer, and also nowhere 
Billboard's Modern Rock Singles Warning is not a failure for near the power of The 
chart. and is one of the best Green Day; the band is just Replacements' Tim. the album 
songs of the band's career. It heading in a new direction and that shows the best transition a 
opens with a quiet acoustic has not quite figured out exactly punk band has ever made to
...... 
arrangement before Billie Joe what they want to do with it yet. more quiet sound. 


WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD DIVISION 
Badin bests McGlinn 7-6, earning spot in playoffs 
By CHRIS FEDERICO, LAUREN 
CONTI AND JOHN BACSlK 
Sports Writers 
They don't play for multi-million dol­lar contracts, naLional championships, or even athletic scholarships, but the women of Badin and McGlinn who took the field Sunday afternoon played as if all of these things hung on that game. 
On a miserably cold and rainy day. the teams trudged onto the field and played wilh as much heart as any team to line it up on the gridiron. They bat­tled for an hour in the biting winds and cold rain, and when it was all said and done, Badin came out on top 7-6 and earned themselves the right to move on to the playoffs. 
With the cold and wet conditions. it proved very difficult for either team to get started offensively in the first half. Just before the half ended, Badin moved the ball deep into McGlinn terri­tory, but they were halted on fourth down at the one-yard line. 
On McGlinn's opening drive of the second half, the Shamrocks moved all the way into Badin's red zone. On first down from the nineteen, an errant pass from McGlinn landed right in the hands of a Badin defender, but she could not hold on for the interception. On the McGlinn run came up short, Badin's sideline erupted. The players knew that they had just made the playoffs and they gathered in the middle of the field to celebrate. 
For McGlinn, all was not lost in the defeat. 
"We played very well all season, and we just lost some close games. We're a young team, and I know we should be excited about next year," said captain Jamie Glasser. 
Walsh 13, Breen-Phillips O 
The Wild Women of Walsh Hall fin­ished off their regular season play with an undefeated record on Sunday, defeating the Breen-Phillips Banshees 13-0. 
"We just stuck lo our game plan and were well-prepared with what to look for," said Melissa Beiting. Walsh cap­tain. 
The win cemented Walsh's place as one of the top four teams in the Gold League. They will move on to the play­offs after fall break. Breen-Phillips is still uncei:tain about their playoff status as this point. "Right now I don't think it looks good," said Tricia Keppel, Banshee co-captain. "But maybe we have some chance." 
Walsh started the game in posses­
... next play. McClinn "We're a young team, would connect on a 
and I know we should be
19-yard touchdown pass. excited about last year." With time running out and down. six 
Jamie Glasser
points, the Bullfrogs 
McGlinn captain
knew they had to 
make something happen. Badin quarterback Priscilla Clements stepped up and shined. On a McGlinn bull rush, Clements llung the ball -just before being knocked down-to a wide-open Betsy Cavo. who ran forty yards for the score. 
"I read McGlinn coming on a blitz. and I knew Betsy would be wide open," Clements said. "I got the ball away just before I was hit, and she was able to get it and go in for the touchdown." 
Badin would go ahead on the conver­sion, and McClinn would have one chance to score. but the Bullfrog defense forced a 4th and 20. When the sion, but neither the Wild Women nor the Banshees did much offensively in the first half. 
"We had the ball and didn't do anything with it, they had the ball and didn't do anything with it -the first half was kind of a wash," said Lauren Walsh, quarter­
back for the Wild Women. 
The Banshees hung on to ball for much of the half. but couldn't score. With two minutes remaining, an off­sides penalty against Walsh nearly turned the tide in BP's favor, but quar­terback Katie McFarland was sacked · on the following play. 
With one minute remaining in the half, Breen-Phillips rallied again as Kelly Deckelman batted down a Walsh pass. The Wild Women managed to close the half on a positive note. how­ever. as Walsh recovered well from a bad snap on fourth down and ran the ball to make up for lost yards. 
The Wild Women took clear control of the second half. beginning on the Banshees' first possession, as freshman Marlana Klinger made her first of three interceptions. "It was exciting," said Klinger. "l thought we came out second half' and played great." 
The Wild Women took advantage and moved the ball deep into Breen-Phillips territory. Their offensive drive was thwarted, how­ever, as Banshee Atasha nerback Jody Kahn. "It's really been a great season for us." 
Off-Campus 6, Pasquerilla West 0 
The Off-Campus Crime was victorious yet again Sunday on Stepan Field. As spectators watched from under umbrellas and in cars, the Crime defeated the Purple Weasels of PW to cap off an undefeated regular season. 
The cold, wet field conditions kept 

the game scoring 
low. Both tnams 
"We proved that we weren't struggled to mount
Potter batted 
long attacks in the
down a pass at messin.<J around here. The game 
rain.
the 13P 5-yard was tough in these conditions. "The rain certain­
line. 
and flags were tough to grab, ly impacted the
Klinger inter­
game," said Off­
cepted the but our defense was solid." 
Campus assistant
Banshees' sub­
coach Chris 
sequent first 
Marita Keane McSpiritt. "Both
down pass, how­
teams had to keep
Off-Campus captain
ever. and ran it 
in for the game's first touchdown. Only minutes later, she made her third and final interception olT a BP second down. once again tak­ing the ball to the Banshees' 5-yard line. A handoff to Gretchen McIntyre produced another touchdown for the Wild Women, who then made good on the 1-pt. conversion with only two min­utes left on the clock. 
"The whole defense really came out there to play. and did well," said Klinger. 
The Banshees were unable to recover from the Klinger-inspired offensive drive by Walsh. 
"lt was frustrating," said Jenny Wahoske, Banshee captain. "We had heard that they'd been scouting us. and it seemed like they anticipated what we were going to do. They were just wait­ing for us to throw it. They did a good job though. credit to them for it." 
Breen-Phillips isn't too disappointed with the loss, however. 
"Obviously we _stiH have a lot of work to do," said Keppel. "We were a young team and definitely improved a lot, we learned how to work well with each other. and we only have two seniors leaving next year. So maybe next year is what we should look to." 
The Wild Women. on the other hand, are left anticipating th~ playoffs. "We can't wait," said sophomore cor­
the passes shorter." 
The only score of' 
the game came on the Crime's second drive of the first half. Quarterback Jamie Stouffer and running back Francesca Delayo alter­nated runs throughout the drive. Stouffer punched the ball in on a quar­terback sneak from the two-yard line. 
Off-Campus had a shortage ol' play­ers, but it did not faze them. Francesca Delayo played running back and cor­nerback for the Crime, coming up with an interception in the second half. The Crime also had many ironwomen in their offensive and defensive lines. 
"We proved that we weren't messing around here," said Crime captain Marita Keane. "The game was tough in these conditions, and 11ags were tough to grab, but our defense was solid." 
The second half was full of slippery plays for both teams. Simple things like snaps. usually taken for granted. proved to be difficult in the wet condi­tions. 
Despite having secured a playoff berth. the Purple Weasels have strug­gled in their past three games. PW has been unable to put any points on the board. 
"We just didn't move the ball as well as we would have liked here," said PW co-captain Kelly Dries.. 
Off-Campus heads into the playoffs with the number one seed in the Gold League . 
.... 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cencs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  WILL BUY USED CARS CALL 272­ Spring Break 2001 Book group of  25 different ring combinations,  
LOST & FOUND  273-3911  WANTED  4776.  15 and GO FREE! Book before Nov. 3 for FREE Meals! Visit us at  voice-activated dialing and five days of memory.  
NO FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­ sunsplashtours.com or call tor tree  
AM. -232-2378  Shift Mgr University Park Mall  MENT CENTER PAID OPPORTU- info @ 1-800-426-7710  but I can't figure out the voice mail  
LOST-Canon zoom camera on  P.M. ­ 288-2726  Auntie Anne's Pretzels up to $8,  NITIES  
9129. Drop off in 220 Main Bldg. Or  20-30 hrs, call Pat or Kathy 219­ Earn money and resume experi­ 1992 CHEVY LUMINA, GREAT  just kidding!  
call 513-703-2990. No questions  271-8740  ence. The Early Childhood  CONDITION. $3,500; 272-4776.  
asked.  ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  Development Center at the  The CCBC award goes to Cassie.  
A.M. -232-2378  Tutoring needed in  University of Notre Dame is current- 
 
FOUNDII  P.M. ­ 288-2726  Win2000/Network-MCSE.  ly accepted applications from col- ATTN: FACULTY & STAFF  But wait! Is it realiy CCBC? I think  
Fossil Steel watch found outside of  Please call 277-4443.  lege students for part time employ- Great house for sale by owner, 1  it's morel like interstate.  
Rolf's Center.  Please call 631­ 2 ND/USC Tix + Airfare  ment opportunities. The opening is  mile north of campus in Fernwood  
3825.  GOTO alumni.nd.edul-ndc_satc  UCONNECTIONS.COM  for M F 12: 15·1 30 (the position  at Cleveland.  OK, so rephrase. The ISBC award  
Hiring part-time positions, no expe­ could be divided into MWF and TTH  Days 243-6040 ext. 231.  goes to Cassie. Boy girl, do you  
-­ FOR SALE. FOOTBALL TICKETS,  rience required Contact  positions.) If you are interested in  Will e-mail amenities.  ever slop?!  
TICKETS  ALL GAMES 272-7233  lalle .~ .d edu for into.  applying, please contact Thayer Kramer, Program Director, at 631­ dhickey@carletoninc.com  jen i missed you at tinnies on satur­ 
3344 for more information and an  Videotape your next on or off cam- day.  
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS  FOR RENT  ATTENTION GRADUATE STU­DENTS:  application.  pus party! · www .icecoldvideo.com  take good notes in spanish tor me  
289-9280  Diving Coach needed tor Saint  today  
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  Mary's Diving Team  FOR SALE  
ND/AIR FORCE 4 TICS ALUMNI ENO ZONE  AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  Experience Necessary. Contact Gretchen Hildebrandt at  PERSONAL  ready tor the warmup  
BEST OFFER  emall:mmmrentals@aol.com  284-5290 tor more info.  SPRING BREAK 2001 -Jamaica,  set to go running tomorrow  
415-677-1310  232-2595  Cancun, Barbados, More. Hiring  High-Speed Copies. Color Copies,  Colleen?  
Campus Reps ­ 2 Free Tripsl Free  Binding, Fax Service, Resumes,  
WANTED: 4 tickets for Boston  That Pretty Place, Bed and  EARN MONEY OVER FALL  Meals-Book by 11/3. Call 1•800­ Business Cards, Laminating and  angel of desire  
College game. Call 284-4334  Breakfast Inn has space available  BREAK  426-771 o or sunsplashtours.corn  Morel  
tor football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115,  The Early Childhood Development Center at Notre Dame has employ­ 111 Spring Break 2001 NCancun,  At THE COPY SHOP  who's ready for fall break?  
SELLING  Middlebury, 30 mites from campus  ment opportunities for Fall Break  Mazatlan, acapulco, Jamaica,  LaFortune Student Center  jason here's your first ever  
NO FOOTBALL TKTS  Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­ (October 16-20) for individuals who  Florida & S.Padre. Reliable TWA  Phone 631-COPY  
251-1570  9487.  enjoy young children. If you are  !lights. Best Prices. Earn $$$ or  Free Pick-up and deliveryl  if you stick around here anyway  
interested in spending time reading  FREE trips-call for details'  
VICTORY TKTS BUY'SELL•TRADE  3, 4 & 5-bedroom alumni-owned  children's books, budding with blocks, and singing songs with chit- 1.800.SURFS.UP www.stydentex­,m::s~@rn  Kickin' butt at the mall. I didn't get any work done, but I'm confident!!!  why don't we get columbus day off?  
ND FOOTBALL  homes for rent.  Please call Jason  dren, please contact Thayer Kramer  (He he he)  still missing that white board, eh?  
232-0964  @ 240-0322 for homes close to  at 631-3344 as soon as possible.  1992 CHEVY LUMINA, GREAT  
www.victorytickets.com  campus.  Have tun and get paid tool  CONDITION. $3,500: 272-4776.  your shoes slunk up my trunk.  blip  

Tuesday, October l0, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 

Football 
continued from page 20 
lunged forward and got the first down by inches. Less than a minute later, Jay Johnson snared a 16-yard touchdown pass from Jackson for the vic­tory. 
Although Notre Dame has won 36 straight against Navy, two of the last three games have exposed Notre Dame's recent struggles in defending the wishbone attack. 
In addition to yielding 231 rushing yards last year, the Irish defense also allowed 277 yards on the ground in a 21-17 victory over Navy in 1997. Notre Dame escaped the 1997 game with the win after cor­nerback Allen Rossum chased down Pat McGrew, who caught Chris McCoy's "Hail Mary" pass with three seconds remaining. Rossum knocked McGrew out of bounds at the one-yard line to preserve the winning streak. 
"It's a difficult offense to defend," Davie said. "We haven't really seen anyone like them." 
Navy arrives in Orlando with a 0-5 record. Its usually potent rushing attack has struggled thus far this season. The Midshipmen average just 114 yards per game and 2.6 yards per carry. In its first five games, Navy has scored in double digits onty twice, aver­aging 7.8 points per game while allowing 31.2 points. 
But with only a week to pre­pare for the wishbone, the Irish remain hesitant to exude confi­dence. 
"We have tremendous respect for them," Davie said. "Everybody out here realizes the challenge." 
That challenge continues in the upcoming five games. Excluding Navy. the cumulative record of the remaining oppo­nents is 16-9 and none are ranked in the top 25 polls. 
But the Irish still must face USC quarterback Carson Palmer, Air Force's wishbone offense (averaging 273 yards per game) and 4-1 West Virginia in Morgantown. 
"Everybody was talking about those first five (games) and the impending doom," Davie said. "I knew the first five games would take care of themselves for a lot of rea­sons." 
The Irish can now focus on the remainder of the season. 
Most ND Students Make Healthy Choices 

Many ND students choose NOT to drink alcohol. 
More than 80% drink only once a week or less frequently.* 
A message from PILLARS with Alcohol & Drug Education 311 Lafortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
(219) 631-7970 
http://www.nd.edu/-aldrug/ 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL MEN'S GOLD DIVISION 
Otters beat Vermin to keep playoff hopes alive 
By COLIN BOYLAN AND 
KATIE DEMENT 
Sports Writers 
The beasts of Carroll and Sorin fought to the finish at Stepan on Sunday. Despite the bitter cold rain, the Vermin and the Otters stayed focused and delivered a strong game. 
The Otters, known for their passing game, allowed little room for the Vermin to gain control of the ball. Carroll's roster was not full, however. A few key players and starters were missing from the lineup. 
The first half was stagnant until Sorin had an opportunity for a field goal, giving the Otters a 3­point lead against the Vermin. 
"Sorin is a good team with good players," said Carroll captain Geoff Polk, who admitted the defense had trouble bringing Sorin down. 
The second half was a mirror image of the first. Sorin once again gained a field goal, leading them to the victory. 
Sorin captain Mike Crowe said, "The_ offense clicked like l hoped they would; they did very well this game." 
A final score of 6-0 made Sorin the victors. Carroll gave Sorin a strong fight. Polk said he "hopes to use this season as a spring board into next year's (season)." 
The last regular season game before the playoffs was a crucial one for the Otters. With their pre­vious standing of 1-0-1, they needed this ½in to qualify for the playoffs. 
A tie breaker game will be held on Thursday night against Siegfried to determine which team will have a chance to be in the playoffs. 
Fisher 26, St. Ed's 6 
Fisher Hall cruised to a victory and a likely playoff berth as they crushed St. Edwards Hall 26-6 on Sunday. 
The win, which gave the Wave 
a 2-1-1 season record, had all the 
hallmarks of Fisher football: solid 
but unspectacular offense and 
great defensive play. 
From the very outset, this game appeared a battle of opposites. 
Fisher's brand of "pound it up the middle" football contrasted starkly with St. Ed's three wide receiver and shotgun formations. 
"We are primarily a passing team, and they obviously like to run the ball," said St. Ed's coach Kevin Huie. 
Unfortunately for St. Ed's, Fisher played its style of football· with more success, and took con­trol of the game behind running scores from Cameron Chappell and Zach Allen. 
By the time Allen took a pitch from quarterback Byron Levku lich into the endzone for the decisive fourth touchdown, the game was all but over. 
"Zach played excellently today. 
He has really carried our team 
offensively, so far this season," 
said linebacker Justin Westervelt. 
Indeed, Allen's heroics were 
not limited to offensive duties. In 
the third quarter, he fielded a 
punt at Fisher's 30 yard line and 
proceeded to break four St. Ed's 
tackles on his way to a touch­
down. The score gave Fisher a 
20-6 lead. 
Once again, mistakes on offense 
and missed tackles on defense 
plagued the Stedsmen in a loss. 
Quarterback Tim Greene's open­
ing pass was intercepted by 
Westervelt, and he threw another · pick later in the game. 
However, the team was able to 
pull close to Fisher midway 
through the first half, on a pass 
from Greene to receiver Chris 
Kitalong. The 50 yard completion 
pulled St. Ed's to within two 
points, and gave the team hope 
for a comeback. But the defense 
began to tire and miss tackles 
and the team could never get any 
closer than that. 
According to coach Huie, "More 
so than any other interhall teams, 
we play our best players on both 
offense and defense. So we are 
more likely to get tired during the 
course of our game than our 
opponents." 
And while St. Ed's looks to 
shore up its depth during the off­
season, Fisher will be looking 
ahead to a possible playoff berth. 
"Right now, that's all we'll be 
focusing on -having success in 
the playoffs," said Westervelt. 
Ironwood family Dentistzy 271-7500/ RUSSELL A MURPHY, DDS 1639 NORTH IR.ONWOOD DR.IVE SUITE 109 SOUTH BEND. IN 466356i!~I 10% COLLEGE STUDENT DISCOUNT  



-
Large One Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
271-0300 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles take forward step in weekend meet 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Assi<1anr Spons Ediror 
Teamwork was key in a solid performance by the Saint Mary's cross-country team this weekend at the GC-Ponderosa Invitational. 
Even missing top runner Casey Kinsella, who was absent from the meet, the Helles finished eighth out of 11 teams in the meet 
"I was ecstatic about how the meet wenl," said head coach Dave Barstis. "Everyone had their best time of the season." 
Going into this weekend's meet. the team's goal was to return to the pack-running style characteristic of last season. 
"Our one-live split was 34 sec­onds and lhal was our goal," Barstis said. 
The top finisher for Saint Mary's was senior Genevieve Yavello, who posted a time of 22 minutes, 25 seconds. Freshman Jessican Millanes, freshman Erin Thayer, sophomore Megan Tenney and junior Melissa Goss followed Yavello across the fin­ish line. Yavello and Goss fin­ished 41st and 47th. achieving the pack running effect the team was looking for. 
"[Goss] looked the best she's looked in two years," Barsits said. 
Barsits also credits much of the success to the Saint Mary's runners who usually fmish sixth or seventh for the team, Millanes and Tenney. 
"Our No. 6 and No. 7 runners 
really stepped up," Barstis said. 
'"Jessica is usually our No. 7 run­
ner and she had a great race." 
Millanes could not quite put her finger on what the difference was between this meet and other meets this season. 
"I don't quite know what it was," Millanes said. "I just went out and felt good and just stayed with that." 
Spring Arbor College won the meet. Hillsdale College and Kalamazoo College finished sec­ond and third, respectively. 
Despite the success of the pack running approach. the Relles were not in the running for a top finish. This fact, Barstis feels, is due to one or two standouts from competitors that Saint Mary's lacks. 
"If you look at the results, the top teams won because they had one runner up in the top 25," Barstis said. "We just didn't have that." 
Barsits said, however. that the team as a whole is becoming very competitive. 
"It takes seven runners to do really well," Barstis said. "Given the fact that [Millanes) and [Goss) had such good races, I think we're in good shape. Our goal is to have everyone peak at the MIAA championships and we're well on our way." 
The Belles travel to Manchester for the Manchester Invitational Friday. 

11am-2am sun-thurs
Call today and 
11am-3am fri-sat
mention this ad!! 
-----·-·---·------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, October 10, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL BLUE DIVISION 
Cavanaugh controls Lewis, Lyons stolllps on Pangborn 
By JOE LICANDRO, BRIAN 
KRONK AND LIA MILHOAN 
Sports Writers 
Tho regular season went out with a bang last Sunday as Cavanaugh edged Lewis 6-0 in a classic defensive battle. 
With 30 seconds remaining in the second half, Cavanaugh quarterback Lynn Olszowy found wide receiver Mandy Reimer for the game's only score. While there was no disputing the touchdown, the game was 
WIN A TRIP , ': 
FOR TWO TO 
AFRICA 
This year the cast of MN's 'The Real World' went to Africa. 
Now you can too!
4,~· ,;,
~~ 
"\o 
Enter for a chance to win at your local Council Travel office or at counciltravel.com 
This trip to Africa is provided by 
c~ II 
~~,~ v1rg1n
~-==. at/antic 
No Purchase Necessary. Open lo residents al U.S .. between the ages of 18 anc! 35 as of 9/5100. Void where prohibited. See agency for Official Rules or go to counciltravel.com. Sweepstakes ends 10/15100. 
~--­
counciltravel.com 1-800-2COUNCIL 
marred by a bit of controversy. On the play prior to Cavanaugh's touchdown, Lewis was penalized for roughing the passer after seemingly stopping Cavanaugh on fourth down. 
"Two teams played their hearts out for 40 minutes, and the rets decided to take matters into their own hands," Lewis coach Blake Kirkman said. 
Lewis cannot attribute the loss solely to the referees, however. The Chicks' offense was less than threatening, as Cavanaugh's defense pressured quarterback Erin Nasrallah and bottled up wide receiver Katie Schlosser. 
Lewis' defense was up to the task as well. Safety Liz Carey was all over the field. Her inter­ception early in the second half halted a long drive by Cavanaugh. 
Lewis finished the season 2-4, missing out on the playoffs. 
Cavanaugh captain Amy Szestak believes her team is ready to make a serious run for the league title. 
"We're proud of our regular 
U'NrvtRSITY Of:-.IOTRE DAME fNTERNATIONAL STUOY PR.OGRA.i\1S 

ANCERS, FRANCE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Dr. Thomas Bogenschild, Director Student Returnees 
Wednesday October 11, 2000 
4:45 PM 
210 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: December 1, 2000 Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 

Free YourseJf. 
The Healthy Options for Problem Eaters (HOPE) program of Madison Center and Hospital specializes in comprehensive care for eating disorders. 
With help, people with eating disorders can learn how to regain control of their lives. If you or someone you know struggles with an eating disorder, please call today. 
219/283-1280 
• Madison Center and Hospital 403 E. Madison Street, South Bend 
season accomplishments, but our goal is to succeed in the playoffs and play in the final game in Notre Dame Stadium," Szestak said. 
Lyons 19, Pangborn 0 
Sunday at Stepan Fields, the Lyons offense was on fire, com­pleting three touchdown passes en route to a solid victory over Pangborn. 
With this win, the Lions roar into the playoffs. 
Lyons' offense got off to a slow start, but a 40-yard pass from quarterback Sarah .Jenkins to captain Lisa Thomas, led to a touchdown. 
"Our receivers did a great job getting open and getting us into the end zone," Jenkins said. "The offensive line was really good too." 
After Pangborn was forced to punt a few plays later, Jenkins took over again, this time con­necting with receiver Roxy Trevino, putting Lyons up 12-0 late in the first half. 
Lyons emerged strong after the half. Jenkins completed a 25­yard pass, then a 30-yard bomb to Trevino for Lyons' third pass­ing touchdown of the game. With the ·extra point, Lyons was ahead 19-0, and never looked back. 
"Some penalties really hurt our defense," said Pangborn captain Erin Piroutek. "And we were missing some players again, which also hurt us." 
Lyons' defense, led by Irene Onyeagbako, never allowed the Phoxes to even threaten reach­ing the end zone. 
The game was called by the mercy rule with two minutes left. 
Lyons enters the playoffs with a unique distinction: all six games in which they played involved a shutout. 
In Lyons' three losses this sea­son, they did not score a single point, but since then, they have won three in a row, each time holding their opponent scoreless. 
Pangborn finishes 0-6. 
Howard 19, Pasquerilla East 12 
On Sunday, the Howard Ducks secured a playoff berth by 
NOBODY DOES BREAKS BETTER• defeating the Pyros of ~Jan · _ Pasque~illa East at Stepa_n Field.
1 18 1001 .~ ~~==;:=:~~;:::=S With JUSt under five mmutes to Steamboat CO go in the half, Howard quarter­back Jill Veselik completed four
• 
Breckenrid e CO passes. including two to fresh­man receiver Elizabeth Klimek, 
) th~n threw a touchdown pass to Klimek to put Howard up 6-0. 
Switching to defense, Veselik then intercepted PE quarterback Lindsay Terifay's pass to give the 
ball back to Howard. She then threw her second touchdown pass of the day to Klimek and completed a 1-pt. conversion for a 13-0 Ducks' lead at halftime. 
In the second half, PE began to get into a rhythm offensively. Lindsay Terifay passed to senior Stacy Leicht, who made the catch and ran 20 yards for the first PE touchdown of the day. 
Howard came up with a strong offensive series to increase their lead. On the option, Kate Crawley ran over 40 yards to the PE 2 yard line. Jill Veselik fin­ished off the drive with a 2-yard run into the endzone, giving
~Breckenrid e CO 
Howard the victory. 
Pasquerilla East ended the www.sunchase.com regular season with a 2-4 record. With the win, Howardl•SQQ,SUNCHASE improves to 3-3 overall and has 
_____________.. secured a spot in the playoffs. 

Tuesday, October 10, 2000
Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown identifies the US investment banking and brokerage activities of DB Alex. Brown LLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., which are indirect subsidiaries of Deutsche Bank AG. *Trademark application pending 
Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown 

Turning change into opportunity 
Juniors and seniors welcome. 
Please join us to learn about career 
opportunities in investment banking, 
sales, trading and research. 
Analyst Panel Discussion 
Tuesday, October 10, 2000 
6:30 p.m. Center for Continuing Education Room 210 
Casual attire. 
Students interested in U.S. opportunities should fax resume and cover letter with area of interest to (212) 469-3872 or (212) 469-3660. 
To learn more about Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, visit our website at 
www.db.com/careers 
Global reach is 

IZI
Deutsche Bank 
Tuesday, Ocrober 10, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN 's INTERHALL FOOTBALL BLUE DIVISION 
Keenan shuts out O'Neill, Alumni blanks Keough 
from the kickoff, utilizing anBy MATT HERRlGAN AND oppressive pass rush to keep the 
JAMES VERALDI 
Mob out of scoring position. The 
Spom Writers 
Knights' defensive front put con­stant pressure on O'Neill's quar­The playoff-bound Keenan terback. completely disrupting Knights finished their regular their offensive flow and allowing season with a shutout as they Keenan to squash any possible 
beat the O'Neill Angry Mob l4-0 shifts in momentum. 
at Stepan Fields Sunday. "Our defense set the tone for Keenan controlled the game intensity and tempo," said 
IN 57 NA110NS aroundI the world, the Claretians strive to change the shape of the future tor people rolled under by the global elite. 
Following the spiritual tradition of our founder, Saint Anthony Claret, we continue to bring the message of Jesus to wherever in the world the need is greatest. 
We are a committed group of men who see ourselves as servants of the Word and at the service of the world-especially to those who are poor and oppressed. Sustained by a rich spirituality, we work to bring justice, peace, and love where they are in short supply. 
Succeed with the Claretians. Meet us and let us meet you. Father Carl Quebedeaux, C.M.F., Room 2022 205 West Monroe Street, Chicago, IL 60606 Telephone: 800/328-6515. E-mail: frcarl22f@daret.org 

Keenan captain llerb Giorgio. "When our 'D' plays well. it gives our offense a chance to regroup." 
And regroup they did. Keenan's offense showcased a talented backfield led by quar­terback Billy Ellsworth and Mark McNamee. McNamee scored the first touchdown of the game and caught a pivotal forty-yard pass from Ellsworth to set up a TD run by Brian Kunitzer, giving the Knights a 14-0 cushion. Applying continued pressure to O'Neill's passing game, Keenan held on for the win. 
There were a few bright spots in the game for O'Neill, however. 
The Angry Mob put some pres­sure on the defensive front. O'Neill sacked Ellsworth three times to keep the Keenan lead from growing even larger than it already was. The Mob's punting game forced the Knights to start deep in their own territory a number of times. And. despite Keenan's overpowering pass rush, O'Neill's quarterback played fairly well by leaving the pocket and throwing on the move to avert pressure. 
O'Neill put up a good fight, bul for all intents and purposes its season is over. At 0-3, O'Neill is out of the playoff picture. 
Keenan, however, is moving on to bigger and better things. This win puts the Knights at 3-1. a record that will have them play­ing for a title shot after fall break. 
Alumni 10, Keough O 
With yet another impressive performance by the Dawgs' defense, Alumni shut out the 
Keough Kangaroos in a key play­
off match-up on Sunday. 
The game featured sloppy play 
and costly mental mistakes, 
which could be attributed to the 
freezing rain and bitter cold 
throughout ihe contest. 
"It was a lot of fun out in the 
rain today," said Alumni fresh­
men John Wahoske. 
The Kangaroo offense was crushed by two turnovers in the red zone. The first came at the end of the half on an intercep­tion by Alumni cornerback T .J. Strachotta at the Dawgs' one­yard line. 
The second Kangaroo red zone turnover came on a timely play from Alumni linebacker Bailey Siegfried. He timed the snap count perfectly and pushed through the offensive line to force a Keough fumble that was recovered by Alumni's John Salvino. This turnover all but ended any chance of a Kangaroo comeback. 
"We came out and did what we had to do. We got the victory and hopefully clinched a playoff spot," said the Dawg's def'ensivc end Tommy Demko. 
Offensively. the Daw gs got the push they needed on three catches by John 
Bevilaqua, and a steady rush­ing performance from Alex Roodhouse and Brandon Nunnink. Their lone touchdown came on a 9-yard pass from quarterback Chris Cottingham to Bevilaqua on Alumni's opening possession. 
A botched punt in the fourth quarter by Keough gave the Dawgs the ball on the Kangaroo ten-yard line and led to a 
Nunnink 23-yard field goal, giv• 
ing Alumni a 10-0 advantage. 
The Keough offense did a very respectable job of moving the ball throughout most of the game. Running backs Kevin MacAbbe and Mike Perrone were able to move the sticks, but the two costly turnovers proved to be too much as the Dawgy D recorded their third shutout of the season. 
"It was a good game," said Keough captain Ryan Yorkery. "It could have gone either way. Alumni was just the better team today." 
Defensively, Alumni just did what they have been doing for most of the season, which is not giving up the big plays and com­ing through with big plays of their own when they have to. 
"We're coming around. We had some key injuries, but every­one is coming back now." said Alumni fullback Brandon Nunnink. "We're starting to come together." 
The victory clinched a playoff spot for the Dawgs as they con­cluded their regular season with a mark of 3-1. They will now sit back and hope for a high playoff seed before their season resumes after the break. 
As for the Kangaroos, the loss put a severe damper on their quest for playoff football. They will have to rebound with a vic­tory against O'Neill Wednesday and need help from Morrissey in its game with Stanford. 
"We blew it today," said Yorkery. "When you are forced tu depend on other teams to help get you to the playoffs it doesn't look good." 
Thinking of The London Program for Fall 2001 or Spring 2002? You are strongly encouraged to turn in your completed application by 4:30pm on Friday, October 13, 2000 Applications will be accepted until 4:30pm on Monday, October 23, 2000  


ROWING 
VOLLEYBALL 
Lightweights 
Belles make vvins commonplace 

: PRIMEquity Line-of-Credit Loan Low introductory rate! 

By ALICIA ORTIZ 
defeat Badgers 
Spom Writer 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK Sports Writer 
The Irish rowing team's lightweights proved to be heavy on strong finishes lhis weekend, taking first in the fours at Sunday's Ilcad of the Hock in Hockf'ord and winning both the fours and the eights at the Chicago Chase on Saturday. 
The Irish lightweight fours, coxed by Pamela Swan, scorched the three­mile course Sunday, leav­ing powerhouse Wisconsin in their wake by over 12 seconds. 
For a 
fledgling "It was a big step Ashlee 
games. with scores of 6-15, 3­
program Warren won
forward for Notre 
15, and 8-15.
like Nolre lhe open 
The next two teams proved to
Dame. Dame. It was our pairs race. 
be more of a challenge for the
defeating most successful impressing 
Belles.
t h e A s h e .
weekend yet." 
"We faced teams we had
mighty "They're two 
never seen before," coach Julie
Badgers really good 
Schroeder-Bick said. "They
was a Leah Ashe rowers," she 
were powerful servers and 
cause for said. "They
senior rower 
attackers with a quick offense. 
excite­
ment. 
"I don't know if we've ever beaten one of their top boats," said captain Erin Kiernicki. "Wisconsin always expects to win. and for us to beat them, that was big." 
The open weight eight boat made similar strides against the competition. The crew finished third, behind only Wisconsin and Iowa, placing the Irish squarely amongst the elite squads of the Midwest. 
"That was our best per­formance ever in the open eights," said senior Leah Ashe. 
The open eights, with Claire Bula at coxswain, avenged their loss to Indiana at Chicago by defeating the Iloosiers handily on Sunday by over 18 seconds. Notre Dame linishcd the 3 mile race in 15 minutes, 51.35 seconds. 
In its first "We faced teams we had had 111 assists
piece, especially through 
game, Saint on Saturday.
the last quarter of the 
never seen before. They
Mary's defeat­".Jamie ran
course." 
ed Beloit were powerjili servers incredibly
As for the lightweight 
College in the and attackers with a. smart offense,"
eights, they took silver in 
best of four Schroeder-Bick
Hockford, finishing only 
quick offense. " 
games with said. "I also
behind Wisconsin. 
scores of 15-nominated her
Coach Martin Stone 
5, 14-16, 15-Julie Schroeder-Biek for the all­
expected strong perfor­
10, and 15-9. tournament
Belles' volleyball coach
mances from his pairs 
the team's overall effort this weekend. 
Isn't it time your home gave
"It was a big step for­ward for Notre Dame," she 
something back to you?
said. "It was our most suc­cessful weekend yet." 
Schroeder-Bick said. "Other teams were defending against her, they were looking for No. 2." 
MeyPrs ended the day with 55 kills and 4 7 digs. "She is a rock for this team." said assistant coach Sue Ushela. 
Other Belles stars included 
setter Jamie 
Dineen, who 
team. She was doing every­thing right." 
Schroeder-Biek also recog­nized right outsider hitter Denise Langolis, who served 24 points for the Belles Saturday. 
"Denise was serving as tough as other other teams 
were serving 
"From here on out, we 
at us." 
Schroeder­want to play as strong 
Bick said. as possible. and beat "They could 
the teams that we lost 
not run quick enough to against." attack her serves." 
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
A combina­
Belles' volleyball coach
tion of good 
serving and impressive defense led the Belles to fourth place. Another outstanding player was middle hitter Jolie LeBeau, with 30 kills. 
"Jolie was smart with the sets that she received," Schroeder­Bick said. "She knows how lo wait aggressively at the net." 
Also contributing to the 
Belles' success were senior defensive specialist Victoria Butcko, with 27 digs, and fresh­man LeighAnn Matesich, with 39. 
The third and final game was played against the Saint Norbert Knights. They defeated The Belles 9-15, 2-15, and 8­
15. Saint Norbert had a mixed team of upper and underclass­men to give them strnngth. They finished the tournament with an overall record of 14-6. 
"We started the Saint Norbert game with a seven point lead," Schroeder-Bick said. "But we pulled ourselves out with con­tinuous errors. They had talent­ed outside attackers." 
The win was just one in a series of turnaround victories for the Belles, who have been working to overcome a 0-9 start at the beginning of the season. Game strategy and smart play have been two improv(1ments that have been notching wins 
for the team. 
Kalamazoo." 
The Belles' achievements in the Lake Forest Invitational have given them confidence to work for future wins. 
"From here on out we want to play as strong as possible." Schroeder-Bick said. "And beat the teams that we lost against." 
The Belles play Kalamazoo today, and are looking to Jamie Dineen's offensive play to help earn a win against the I lornets. 
"Jamie is a tremendous offensive threat to any team," Schroeder-Bick said. "We will need that against 
"In Sunday's race, we passed three boats, which helped us to stay motivated for all 4000 meters," said bow scat Ann Marie Dillhoff. "We could feel that we were racing a good 
Wins are becoming slightly more common for the Belles volleyball team, which posted one win for a fourth place over­all finish at the Lake Forest Invitational Saturday. 
teams. and his rowers responded forcefully. /\t Chicago, Irishwomen B e c k y Luckett and 
Beloit finished the weekend with an over­all record of 5-15. In the next match. Lake Forest defeated Saint Mary's in three short 
had a fantas­
tic race." 
Luckett and Warren returned Sunday to finish third out of 22 boats, with 
teammates Jaime Szefc and Katherine Burnett placing seventh,· while Dillhol'f and Diane Price took eighth. 
The two novice eight boats, made of exclusively first year rowers. followed the lead of the varsity and finished just behind Indiana and Northwestern in the shadow of down­town Chicago. The Irish, unlike their competitors. were rowing their first race ever. They did not compete on Sunday. 
Ashe was ecstatic about 
"We let Lake Forest set the pace. They had the depth that we lacked." 
The hosting team definitely made an impression on the Belles. 
"Lake Forest was a really good team," junior Angela Meyers said. "We played well against them." 
Meyers had a solid perfor­mance at the invitational, voted all-tournament player by coach­es. Only six players are chosen out of 100 for this honor. 
"She was unbelievable," 
0 
Even our regular rate is hard to beat! 
NOTRE DAME 
,EDEii.AL CRE.DIT UNION 
ll'or l't:opl<. Na! l•r Profit, 
219/239-6611 ,nvw.ndfcu.org 

ln.d•~:b-1\t 6f the Vniw,._,iiy. 
,Annu.il P'«r~tagt. R~le, PrG-_pc-rty ins.:u,.~ne• ia r•quittcl. Nut v..did with Ally .-,thc,r ~tr«r. Kat•• 
~l1bj,~L t~ <:hwi1t, CtJnll\l.ll & t.»c l'kl'tbo, u.:udin4 the Git-4ucUbili~ al uue,ut. A bl\lloon payment tilsu1t ~t maf'\Jrif'}'. Ail-rr '.~ ~ix-ccintt, jni.rodudwy p4:J'•tl(l, !bo z-.At1 wiU JeV~l'f ,,,. lh• }tJJh,ur 

.,[,;.II J_1 !J Jv.ti 
---·------------------------------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, October l 0, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TYLER
TOM KEELEY 
THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 
BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 

I LIKt. To TAKE Ho-HOS ANO CAREfOLL"f ONl<OLL  TKEN l PoUR ON SUGAR ANO CHOCOLATE SYRUP  MMM.  PAIGE, I'M  •.•!<NOWJNC:, THAT '(OU  
THEM.  AND ROLL 'THEM SAC!<: UP.  I  GETTING S1CK To MY  THoU<:iHT OF THIS  
STOMACH.  F•l<ST. I  


'-',;:;::. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Place to have a 64 Plane seating 1 On the ocean pint division (and the key to this
31 Less common puzzle's theme) 
6 Andy's radio 
partner 32 Mickey's creator 65 Change for a
10 Dish that stick"s 34 Comics canine twentyto your ribs 38 Scold severely 66 Sought14 Hunky-dory 41 Cheers for damages15 1993 film in banderilleros 67 Part of a rublewhich Kevin 42 Bitter drinks Kline played the 43 Seashore DOWNpresident 44 Insect in a 1 Killer snake 
16 Chair-raising experience? 
colony 2 U.S. Airways 45 Goodness competitor
17 Miami sights 46 On the train 
3 Like buffet 18 Kind of hygiene restaurants50 Luau food 19 Singer Redding 
4 licklish doll guy
52 "_Haw"
20 Don Shula or 5 In addition 53 Rosa Parks Day Knute Rockne 6 Building brick 
23. 57 Bread spread 7 French radical 
Miserables" 58 'Oh, that'll 
murdered in his 25 Doc for a boxer happen!" bathtub 26 Expenditure 59 Heart outlet 8 White House 
27 Single-celled 62 Blueprint office shape protozoa 63 Intent look 9 Events with no empty seats 10 Make a film
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
11 Horribly wreck 12 "Fear of Flying"
GLOBIAJARIAESOP 
writer Jong

R O U E L U L U G R A P E 
34_about 47 "Beauty and the 54 Rebecca and 
13 Wishy-_ 
(approximately) Beast'' beauty Isaac's eldest 
I N S E 
V E 
NT 
H H EA V EN 
21 Attachments to
PETR l ¦ GORE•TORA 
35 Ira Levin play 55 Spice tiolder 
VCR's 48 Indian -sT E-A MOR A L 22 Chicago athlete 36 Matter of dispute 56 Fly without a
49 Ages and ages co-pilot
23Key_ 37 Cosmetician 0 D I E P S~ T AIG A E E 24 Correspondence Lauder 50 Trophy 60 Mao _-tung MELBA P.!!_S TOADS 
that may come 39 lipstick holders 51 Killed, slangily 61 Interview with attachments
····1r1
EATAT IONS IVES 
40 Here, in France28 Apiary residents
0-UDN IN E 
44 Radius's place
29 High school Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
CH AO ME ERG-
elective 45 The Henry who are available by touch-tone phone: 
REAR•MAST•AOAGE 
30 In addition founded the 1-90Q..420·5656 (95e per minute). 
ONTOPOFTHEWORLD 
32 Whip mark Tudor line Annual subscriptions are available for the 
SCONEIREEOIWEAN 
33 Homer 46 Take in, as a best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
SENOR OWES NADA 
Simpson's dad stray cat years: 1·888·7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

When ushers go undercover. 
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2000  
CELEBRffiES BORN ON THIS  friends are likely to come back into  
DAY: Richard Jaeckel, Julia Sweeney,  your life. Be cautious. They may  
Ben Vereen, David Lee Roth, Tanya  have ulterior motives. 000  
Tucker  VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your  
Happy Birthday: Be practical and  emotional partner is likely to be  
wager how much time you really  upset if you don't pay enough atten­ 
need to accomplish your goals this  tion. Try to get him or her interested  
year. You could easily overextend  in some of the things you enjoy  
yourself ii you take on too much.  doing.000  
Your sympathetic nature will be  LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You  
taken advantage of if you don't use  will get along well with co-workers.  
discrimination when it comes to  Consider mixing business with plea­ 
helping others. Remember that chari­ sure. You need to get out and mingle  
ty begins at home. Your numbers: 2,  with individuals who will provide  
13, 27, 31, 35, 44  you with intelligent conversation.  
ARIES (March 21-April 19):  000  
Work behind the scenes. Your cre­ SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your  
ativity will be inspired. Get into  creative talent is growing, and it cer­ 
financial ventures that are stable and  tainly needs an outlet. Look into  
long-term. Residential moves will be  dancing, music or art lessons to stim·  
in your favor. 0000  ulate your imagination. 00000  
TAURUS (April 20-May 20):  SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.  
New partnerships can be formed.  21): You can expect some opposition  
Your ability to see both sides of  from family if you get involved in an  
an issue will help you make deci­ affair with an already committed  
sions. Look into the possibilities of  individual. Try to spare yourself the  
enlisting the help of those with  grief by avoiding this situation. 00  
greater experience. 0000  CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):  
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put  You need to get away. Boredom is  
your efforts into moneymaking ven­ causing you to stagnate. You need  
tures. You will have to take care of  inspiration. Interaction with inter­ 
the affairs of relatives. Try not to be  esting individuals will be very  
taken advantage of. A love interest  enlightening. 0000  
may develop at work. Be careful that  AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):  
he or she aren't already committed to  Moneymaking opportunities will  
someone else. 00  direct you toward making a little  
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your  extra cash on the side. Your own cre­ 
living quarters need a facelift. Get  ative business appears to be lucra­ 
busy and make the changes. New  tive. Exploit your talents. 000  
wallpaper or a new piece of furniture  PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You  
will lift your spirits. Invite friends  need to get out with people who  
over.0000  bring out the emotions and passion  
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Older  in you. Your unique approach to life  
female members of your family may  will attract members of the opposite  
need help. Past romantic partners or  sex.000  

Birthday Baby: You are so sweet and charming that it's difficult for anyone to deny you anything. You are persuasive, knowing and capable of mastering impressive skills. You will be looked up to. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) ~ 2000 I.;nive,sal Press Syndicate 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
.------------------------------------------------~-­
Raging river 
Playoff bound 
The Notre Dame crew team 
Interhall football squads 
had its best outing of the 
head home or head for the 
season, with the light­
playoffs following this week. 
weights leading the way to 
Check out where your dorm 
upset victories over 
stands. 
Wisconsin and Indiana. 
PORTS 
pages 12, 13, 15, 17 

page 18 
O
THE 
page 20 BSERVER Tuesday, October 10, 2000 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish win two to remain perfect within Big East 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Spores Writer 
Notre Dame volleyball remains undefeated in confer­ence play following wins over Big East opponents West Virginia and Pittsburgh. 
The No. 20 Irish, now 13-4 overall and 4-0 in the league, edged Pittsburgh in four games (15-9, 10-15, 16-14, 16-14) Sunday. 
"I think Pittsburgh was a lot better than we originally gave them credit for. They've deli­nitely been the strongest team we've played in the Big East," said senior co-captain Christi Girton said. "We played really tense against Pittsburgh and had a lot of miscommunica­tion. We should have had more blocks than we did." 
Girton led Notre Dame with a career-high of 30 kills. and added 15 digs. Junior Kristy Kreher racked up 22 kills, 10 digs and eight blocks while Marcie Bomhack added 19 kills and 19 digs. Denise Boylan totaled 86 assists to break her previous four game assist record set earlier in the season against Loyola Marymount. 
"We've had the goal of fin­ishing games quickly instead of getting the 14th point and coasting," said Girton. "We did that well against West Virginia. but we had some lows against Pittsburgh. We were in cruise throughout that game. it was kind of up and down." 
Notre Dame came on strong against West Virginia on Saturday, stopping the Mountaineer offense to earn a 15-0 game one win before dominating games two and three 15-7 and 15-4. 
"With West Virginia we were able to get in and get on top of the team right away. not mess around with them. We were able to take care of them instead of playing down at their level." said Girton. 
Kreher led the Irish with 12 kills and seven blocks. while Girton and Bomhack each added five kills in two games. 
"We can't overlook the con­ference teams. It's not known as a strong volleyball confer­ence but it's getting stronger," said Girton. "Pittsburgh defi­nitely let us know that there are some pretty decent teams to look for." 

FOOTBALL 
Davie leads team into second season 
By TIM CASEY Assisranr Sporrs Ediror 
Now comes the second season. 
Since Sept. 14, 1999, when coach Bob Davie first mentioned this year's difficult schedule to the public 
at his weekly news con­ference, conversa­t i o n regarding the 2000 Irish cam­

paign has Davie focused on the "bru­tal" first five games. 
Despite losing their starting quarterback and defensive cap­tain. Notre Dame has survived the stretch against live 1999 bowl teams with a respectable 3-2 record. Most preseason pre­dictions centered on the impor­tance of maintaining an above .500 winning percentage enter­
ing the year's second half. Davie claims his team had a unique outlook. 
"It was the last six games that we focused on since coming back last year in January," Davie said on Sunday. "We learned last year it is not how you start. it is how you finish." 
In 1999, the Irish improved to 5-3 after a 28-24 victory over Navy on Oct. 28, their fourth straight win. Four games later, they were left wondering what went wrong. Injuries to key players. a struggling defense and a turnover-prone offense all contributed to Notre Dame's first losing record since 1986. 
When the lrish take the field against the Midshipmen on Saturday, memories of last year's tight game will be fresh in their minds. In that contest, Notre Dame trailed by three points and faced a 4th and 10 situation with less than two min­utes to go. Then Bobby Brown caught a Jarious Jackson pass, 
see FOOTBALL/page 13 
Devoted fans form "Belles Guard" 
I knew they were dedicated, but I didn't know just how much until I realized that some fans will brave anything ­even the worst of 
Sarah
weather­to show Rykowski support for Belles ath­
Inside Saint 
letics. 
Mary's Sports 
It was a rainy, cold, blustery day, but they still showed up en masse in matching kilts. Their sole concessions to the horrible weather were umbrellas, which they were only too happy to share with some very wet and freezing Belles fans. 
Call them the three muske­teers if you like. They prefer to think of themselves as the Belles Guard. 
Hence the wearing of the kilts. 
Whatever they call them­selves, you may be sure that they are loyal fans ofthe soc­cerbelles of Saint Mary's. Indeed, they are some of' the most dedicated Belles fans ever witnessed. They are there, every home game, rain or shine, watching their friends play. And they are not above cheering for girls they don't 
know. 
With baited excitement. they are always asking bystanders who just made that kick, or who just.got knocked down. These are boys who love this game. 
They are also anxious to learn soccer etiquette. Specifically. they have asked if it is appropriate to storm the field after a big win. This is where their hybrid of Belles­Irish spirit shows. For most stu­dents on both sides of the street, the football program rules above all other sports. These guys are no different. They cheer at each football game with the same intensity -if not more -than most Irish fans. 
· But in between cheering for the Irish each home Saturday in the stadium, they also take time to cheer in the Belles' cor­ner. And these are guys you want in your corner.­
Steven Christ. Tim Ponisciak and Jake Teske all ended up in the same section in Keough Hall last year as freshmen. After forming friendships with soccer players on the all-female of U.S. 31, an allegiance was born that brought students from both sides of the road 
together to cheer for each 
other's sports. 
Sauce. Beef and Shakey, as they are often called by close acquaintances, would not have met the requirements of the Irish Guard of Notre Dame. Like many students at both schools. they respect the mem­bers of the Guard and the rig­orous training that the Guard undergoes. This respect led them to believe that the Belles. particularly the soccer team, should have a similar institu­tion. 
To them, it was only right that the members of the Belles Guard should be Notre Dame students, who would support and-protect the soccer Belles as a symbol of the unity and sup­port between the two schools. 
While at times the attendance of Belles fans at soccer games can be unimpressive. as long as these guys are in school across the street, the Belles will have at least three fans sitting in the stands: the three kilted muske­teers of' the Belles Guard. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
at Kalamazoo vs. Boston College vs. Navy Today, 7 p.m. ~ Friday, 7:30 p.m. Saturday, I I p.m. 
SPORTS ~ 
-
ATA-
at Illinois State Cross country vs. Sr. John's 
Wednesday, 7 p.m. 
Pre-National Meet ~ .,, ,i, Saturday, 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday, TBA 
GLANCE 




