
Wild times in Walsh 
Freezing out the Cardinal 
One of the first two women ·s dorms on 
On one of the coldest October days on record. 
Monday
campus, the women ofWalsh proudly defend 
Notre Dame sent Stanford back to 
their "wild" heritage. 
California with a 20-14 loss. 
OCTOBER 9, 
Scene . page 10 
See Irish Insider 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 35 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
As a single-sex school trying to Jund an athletic department, Saint Mary's finds itself left behind 



In the wake of Title IX 
which passed in 1972. womens' colleges have been left see compliance. In the last five for her to bring Saint Mary's
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Exception 6 to the rule states behind what is going on across years, colleges across the coun­up to the standards that are 
Saint Mary's New.s Editor 
that the legislation "does not the countrv." try have moved to embrace currently in place at co-ed ins­
apply to any public institutions There has been rapid growth women's sports. It's so easy tutitions. 
To the casual observer, Title of undergraduate higher learn­in the last five years as schools when you have that equity." "It took me a year to get on IX is an advantage to girls' ing that traditionally from its nationwide rushed to meet the board about where Saint schools across the country. A establishment has had a policy compliance requirements of Adding up the numbers Mary's was," she look at how it affects Saint of admitting only students of Title IX. The mandate states Before taking over as Saint said. "We weren't in the Mary's will show otherwise. one sex." that "No person in the United Mary's athletic director two MIM then. Our status has real­
"[Title IX "All schools have to flle with States, shall. on the basic of years ago, ly changed [with joining the h a s the NCM [for Title IX). but we sex, be excluded from partic­Kachmarik was involved in a MIMJ." spurredl a don't have to file," ipation in, be denied the bene­task force at Bucknell Still, the road has been hard. really Kachmarik said. "We aren't fits of, or be subjected to dis­University, where she Although the administration amazing held up to other schools for crimination under any educa­helped define what that insti­has been willing to help Saint growth for comparison. When we don't tion program or activity receiv­tution needed to do to meet the Mary's athletics improve to the women ath­have that, who's looking at us? ing federal financial assis­equity requirements. What she point where they are competi­letes in a No one." tance." The landmark decision found was that women walked tive with other MIM programs.
coeduca­But a lack of evaluation does set the conditions for funding a fine line between their desire there are limits to what theytional envi­mean that Saint Mary's and and treatment of women's ath­to participate in athletics, while can do. With the budget beingronments." other single-sex institutions can letic programs in higher educa­also being hesitant to take pulled in several different S a i n t lack the progress that co-ed tion. away from the current men's directions, not all funding can Mary's athletic director Lynn institutions may have made It also served as a wake-up athletic programs. be poured into athletics. 
Kachmarik said. '"When you since Title IX. Because no call for many institutions that "Its very tough," Kachmarik "It takes time to get us there," have the mens' programs to authoritative body is looking were not in the practice of said. "No woman wants to take Kachmarik said. "The financial compare to it's over their shoulder, athletes at · treating women's athletic pro­away from the men, just get the ramifications of that must be 
black and white. In many single-sex institutions may not grams equally. same advantages for women, considered. Part of me says we ways [Saint Mary's] has been experience the benefits Title IX "When the NCM instituted a but there are no financial should be at the forefront. It's left behind."· 
has brought to women's athlet­gender equity policy, a lot of resources for that." great to say all this, but the 
As a single-sex institution of ics across the country. schools weren't in compliance," When she arrived at Saint financial ramifications are hor­higher learning. Saint Mary's is 'The best way I can describe Kachmarik said. "A lot of Mary's, Kachmarik knew her actually not affected by Title IX. it is Saint Mary's and other schools cared, but you didn't work was cut out· see TITLE IX/page 6 


Gold medal Olympian earns hero's welcome 
By MARY MULLEN News Writer 
Newscenter 16 welcomed home a local hero Sunday, hon­oring Elkhart-based Olympian Lindsay Benko. Celebrating the 20-year-old swimmer's 800­metcr freestyle relay gold medal, the celellration was to honor the best swimmer that Indiana has ever produced. 
"It was the type of dream that came true after a lifetime of love." Terry McFadden of WNDU said. 
Benko entered the celebration following a video presentation of her gold-medal winning per­formance. 
"This is overwhelming," she said, as red, white and blue bal­loons fell to the ground during a concert by the Elkhart Central High School band. 
WNDU presented Benko with gifts that included a certificate entitling Benko to appear as a sports anchor for one of their Saturday morning shows. WNDU also presented Benko with a framed picture of herself on a Wheaties box, designed by the studio's art department. 
The biggest gift of all, howev­er. was a gold 2000 Cadillac Escalade -a gift from Elkhart car dealer Tom Naquin. 
Lieutenant Governor Joe Kernan spoke at the rally, admitting he "had butterflies" as he watched Benko race. Kernan also told the gathering that all of the Olympians from Indiana will be coming to the State Capitol next week for state recognition. 
Congressman Tim Roemer presented Benko with an American flag that flew over the U.S. Capitol Building. Roemer reminded Benko of the impact she made on America, saying that children everywhere are saying to themselves, "I want to be the next Lindsay Benko." 
Among the children repre­sented at the event were those from SLanley Clark Middle School. Benko's alma mater. Principal Robin Douglass and students from Stanley Clark dis­played a banner congratulating Benko that will be hung over the doorway of the Elkhart school. 
Benko began swimming com­petitively in Elkhart at the age of 6 and won her first state title at Notre Dame at the age of 9. Looking back, Benko remem­bers being thrilled to have her picture in the paper for her flrst big swimming accomplishment. Nine state titles, one NCM title, and an Olympic gold medal later, Benko was ecstatic after her welcome home last night. 
In the Sydney Olympics, Benko swam the 200-meter 
see BE'IKO/page 4 


Gold medal winner Lindsay Benko faces the press in a special celebration hosted by WNDU at South Bend Regional Airport. 
. 
photos by 

PETER RICHARDSON 

Monday, October 9, 2000
page2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 


The Unborn Right 
We fall in love, and sometimes might make the wrong decisions -sex being one of them. Sex happens at Notre Dame and pregnancies probably do, too. For this reason I was dis­gustl'd to Sl'e the nood of miniature crosses that overwhelmed the lawn this football week­
Maribel Morey

end. I could not imagine 
being a student here who 
aborted a child and then 
reminded so sharply of Copy Editor 
this decision on the way 
to the football game or 
simply to the library. 

Imagine 500 copies of your worst exam copied and laid out on the lawn. The shame to know that everyone knows you failed. The shame. But you wouldn't need to display the 500 copies to be embarrassed of your grades, simply one copy would do the job. Even if you and God arc the only ones to know what your grade was, you are disappointed and perhaps mortified. but you'd try to move on. Year afler year, you wouldn't want to be reminded of that one exam in college. 
This is not the case for those affected bv 
abortion. Year after year, this cemetery will 
b(~ erected and they will be forced to remem­
ber. 

Instead of changing my views. this display ()f death would just simply add to my guilt. Thus showing that the infamous Catholic guilt lives on beyond church doors and onto the lawn. Hut we are a family, the Notre Dame family, right? We support each other, even in the toughest times, or so that's how it should be. People can easily get into a situation of unprotected sex in a campus that does not sell condoms. Perhaps a nood of condoms on the lawn would do more good. At least then people could do something before they're pregnant instead of making them feel guilty afterwards. 
I do understand, however, that this ceme­tery was not aimed completely at students. It was also intentionally or unintentionally for the visiting public this football weekend. 
The air was chilly, the leaves were speckled with signs of fall and the little children, our future Darners, ran around the campus awed by this great place where their parents met. Right before entering the stadium to sec the golden helmets, these children probably passed by the rows of crosses. 
If it shocked me, disturbed me and left me speechless. I could not imagine how a little kid would feel as he saw it. How do you explain to your child that all those crosses symbolize dead children? How do you explain to him such a disturbing reality? I do not believe these children need to be exposed to this issue because it serves them no purpose. Yes. they could have been one of these cross­es, but they're not. They're alive, they're innocent, but that too could be lost during their weekend at Notre Dame. 
These crosses concentrate on the effects of a difficult decision instead of the cause. Sex is perhaps prevented with awareness, but not with this guilt. These children were already aborted. That cannot be changed. Women with bowed heads and shame on their young faces. shocked visitors and bewildered chil­dren with multiple questions cannot bring back these children. Or does the right to life apply only to the unborn? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Finn Pressly Jacqueline Browder Nare Phillips Graphics Meg Daday 
Jose Cuellar 
Sports 


Lab Tech 
Noah Amstadter 
Elizabech Lang 

Viewpoint 
Lila Haughey 

The Ob><rvcr (USPS S99 2--4000) is publi,hcd Monday rhrough Friday exccp1 during c:tam :lnd vacation periods. The ObscrvC'r is a member of rhc A.slOCioued Press. A.II reproduccion rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME  
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. Sign-up: Sign-up  . Workshop: "Writing  . Meeting: Faculty sen­ . Service: Basilica of the  
Freshman Hetreat, 8 a.m,  Center Workshop," 7 p.m.  ate meeting, 7 p.m. to 9  Sacred Heart Service,  
103 llesburgh Library.  to 8:30 p.m., 119  p.m., McKenna llall.  11 :30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m.  
. Movie: "Trust," 7 p.m ..  O'Shaughnessy.  . Meeting: "Interfaith  . Event: "Acoustic Cafe,"  
Snite Museum of Art.  . Dance: Humba lessons.  Christian Night Prayer."  9 p.m. tu 11 :30 p.m.,  
. Service: Eucharistic  8:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m., $4  10 p.m. to 11 p.m.•  LaFortune Student Center.  
Adoration, 10 p.m., Fisher  lesson/$30 semester, 301  Morrissey Chapel.  
Hall.  Hockne.  

OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 
U. of Maryland police investigate third rape 
COLLEGE PARK. Md. The police transported the victim
"Our first concern is for 
A University of Maryland student to the sexual assault center of
the health and well-being
• reported to UniversiLy police that Prince George's Hospital Center, 
· she was raped in her Graduate Hills ofthe victim. " where she cciuld talk with specially apartment on Tulane Drive over the trained personnel. weekend. This is the third reported rape in

Don Smith
The 30-year-old graduate student three weeks in the area, and the reported that she is an acquain­police officer firth one this calendar year, accord­tance of' the suspect. Police first sus­ing to police rcports.­pected a rape may have occurred T he first rape this semester, when they received a call Saturday which occurred Sept. 16, was also 
information to give to her friend
from a female asking for informa­an acquaintance rape. It happened
and tried to convince the caller to
tion she could give to a sexual in University Courtyard Apartments
give police more information on the
assault victim off of Route 193. 
victim so they could help her.
The caller said the victim was a A Sept. 23 rape on the 7300 block 
"Our first concern is for the health
female friend who knew her attack­of Dickinson Avenue, did not involve 
and well-being of the victim." Lt.
er and the incident happened in the an acquaintance. No charges have 
Don Smith said.
victim's apartment. The caller been filed in any of these incidents. 
The victim called Wednesday and
refused to give police the name of Campus groups arc responding to 
said she let the acquaintance into
the victim. the recent rapes with sexual assault 
her apartment Saturday where he
Police provided the caller with awareness programs.
raped her later that afternoon. 



UNIVERSITY OF IOWA
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 
Team disagrees on "Sexiest Man" 
Former student sues University 
The People magazine announcement that Iowa
The Syracuse University student who jumped from 
senior and safety Hyan Hansen will be listed as one
the eighth noor lounge of Boland Hall in a suicide 
of the sexiest men in America got a predictable reac­
attempt in 1998 is now suing the university for $10 
tion from the Iowa football team. Hawkeye players
million. Anita Rutnam, who at the time of the jump 
and coaches think it's pretty funny. "That was kinda
was a junior social work major, said the university and 
the sense I got in the weight room yesterday," Iowa
Pelion Inc., a local mental health corporation, were 
coach Kirk Ferentz said. "In fact, I didn't know any­
negligent in handling her suicidal condition before she 
thing about it, but there was some banter f'lying
tried to take her life, according to court documents. 
around the weight room yesterday." Hansen, who
Rutnam is currently living with her parents in 
posed for Esquire this summer to model clothing
Winchester, Mass., and is still battling the injuries she 
styles of the Heartland, will be in the Nov. 10 issue of
incurred after plunging 90 feet to the Brewster/Boland 
People. Hansen, who is in his fifth year at the univer­
patio pavement. During her time at SU, Rutnam was 
sity after redshirting his freshman year, is also a Ul
admitted to a mental hospital several times. and made 
law student. Iowa running back Ladell Betts said he
several suicide threats and attempts, including one 
was surprised that Hansen got the recognition in
attempt to jump from another campus building. Three 
People because he doesn't have a model-type atti­
days before Rutnam jumped from Boland Hall, she 
tude. "He's reserved," Betts said. "I think of llanscn
received a letter from the SU Office of Judicial Affairs, 
as an academic guy, he's really smart. I don't know if
suggesting admittance into a day treatment or an 
he's the sexiest man in America, but somebody must
inpatient program because she refused to continue her 
think he is."
Pelion treatment plan. 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Beo.d Fcxi:ealSt k.o.ttat::!Er tcre::ast fer ceytine anlitims arlhigh t:arparat:ur:es 
/ 
/ 
FRONTS:

...... ............... 
C 2000 AccuWeathor, Inc COLD WARM STATIONARY 
#'rt11JfU,_: 

@©DDDD . w 
High Low Shower• R•ln T•1torm1 Flurrl.. Snow le;;• sunny Pt. Cloudy CloudV 

Via As"sooafod Pros/$ 

Atlanta 74 62 Las Vegas 84 60 Portland 56 40 Baltimore 74 27 Memphis 80 62 Sacramento 61 48 Boston 74 27 Milwaukee 75 43 St. Louis 71 58
~-~,~Q.'6¾Q(f ~ u 
Chicago 68 48 New York 70 49 Tampa 88 68
Show9rs T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 88 67 Philadelphia 75 48 Wash DC 75 49
Via kwei•tlMJ Pm!'J.!I On,phiCMJBI 

Monday, October 9, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NE\VS page 3 



Linux CEO: free programs breed progress 
its own software developers

By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
and money to creating this News Writer 
system, Cisco decided to use the open source model, so that free internet-based soft­many companies could collab­ware is changing the way orate on the software. In the computer companies do busi­past, companies would com­ness, according to Larry pete against each other Augustine, president and CEO instead of collaborating. of VA Linux Systems. When one software company "Software released a that is freely new ver­
"Software that is freely
developed and_ sion, all distributed developed and other com­over the p
distributed over the an i es 
Internet is would rush
Internet is dominating 
dominating to rrlease a the market," the market. " new ver­he said in a sion. lecture "Th e y
Larry Augustine
Friday. would all 
Augustine, a CEO, VA Linux Systems re-invent 
1984 Notre Dame graduate, returned to Notre Dame to give the inau­gural lecture in the Distinguished Engineering Lecture Series, a set of four lectures to be given through­
. out the academic year on sub­jects of !>road interest to engi­neers. 
"The economy is dependent on software that is available for free," Augustine said. 
Many programmers from different companies collabo­rate to develop this open source software. As changes and updates are· made to the software, source code from new versions is posted to the Internet as often as daily and other programmers are encouraged to add their input or debug the code. 
Augustine used the example of the Cisco Systems' Enterprise Printing System to describe open-source soft­ware. Cisco aimed to have any user be able to print to any of the company,s printers world­wide from their own comput­er. Rather than devoting all of 
the same concept. Open source requires vou to share. There's no incentive to re-invent. the incentive is to build on top· of." Augustine said. Better soft­ware is the result of this col­laboration, he said. 
Since programmers from many companies work togeth­er. they arc able to release new foatures in software more often. It takes less time to develop these new features because more people are working on it. Even operating systems are built using the open source model. Linux, one such operating systems, is used on 31 percent of all Internet servers. 
This operating system is fundamentally different from operating systems that were built using the traditional soft­ware model, like Windows NT. Augustine presented several differences: the fact that Linux is free and Windows NT is not, the fact that Linux's source code can be easily and freely modified and NT's cannot, and the differences between the origins of the operating sys­tems. When Augustine asked the engineers at the lecture to name the creator of Linux, many correctly answered Linus Torvalds. No one could name the creator of Windows NT. 

"Who is in charge? In Windows from Microsoft, peo­ple are interchangeable. The point is that this is the revenge of the nerds. 
"You as individuals have the power. If you leave the com­pany, you take the project with you. You look at open source as development you want to do. You have owner­ship of the software," Augustine said. There are also significant difforences in whore money is spunt on the open source and traditional model software projects. 
"Companies would buy soft­ware from another company that would spend a lot of 
might result in a few new fea­tures for the end user. Open source is much more efficient. Consumers employ the programs direct­ly," Augustine said. 
Problems with the open source model do exist, howev­er. In the traditional software model, an engineer might work on software code for six months, without input, before his supervisors and the cus­tomers viewed the software. If they did not like what they saw. the engineer would have to go back to the drawing board. With open source soft-

Old College upperclassmen and staff with Bishop Dan Jenky. C.S.C. 
Holy Cross: The Next Generation 
ANSWER ~ 


THECALL W 

www.nd.edu/,__ vocation 
ware, there is constant input and real-time collaboration. 
"People have to understand that it's not as easy as in theo­ry. There are cultural issues. Engineers arc trained to put on blinders and not communi­cate," Augustine said·. Since open source software is avail­able al no charge, companies like Augustine's VA Linux 
. must make money from other sources, such as soiling Internet servers and providing consulting services. His com­pany is very successful at this important business aspect. Augustine reported that VA Linux made $50 million ·in revenue in quarter four alone. When introducing Augustine, Frank Incropera, McCloskey Dean of Engineering, said VA Linux's Initial Public Offering had the largest single day increase of any company that went through an I P 0 
dollars in other "Engineers are trained Augustine functions like encour­
to put on blinders and 
marketing and aged stu­
not communicate." 
sales. Some dents, vvho money might he said go to develop­Larry Augustine would be ment, wh-ich the best
CEO, VA Linux Systems 
empow­
ered to 
work on open source software, to learn how to learn new technolo­gies, because the programs that they learn today probably will not be in use after they graduate. 
"Students are better at this than faculty," he said. "Students are growing up in a world where this is common, with programs like Napster. You have to be literate in a broad range of technologies. Learning how to learn is very important. What will it be in one to five years?" 
Knights dedicate new statue 

By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
With song and prayer, the Knights of Columbus dedicated a statue Sunday honoring the victims of abortion. 
Knights of Columbus chapters across the country have been erecting memorials to aborted chil­dren, according to Notre Dame chapter's Grand Knight Tom Dietz. The memorials have taken differ­ent forms. he added, ranging from crucifixes to tombstones. 
The statue at Notre Dame, locat­ed to the side of the Basilica of the Sacred Ilea.rt. features a golden mother and child. The figure is meant to symbolize life. · 
"People [are] finding it very beautiful," Dietz said. "l think everybody that's seen it has thought it's been in good taste." 
The Knights decided to erect the statue this year in honor of the chapter's 90 anniversary. 
"We wanted to have a great cele­bration," said. Dietz~ adding that the statue is just part of the group's activities. 
The chapter has donated approx­imately $90,000 over the last two years to numerous charities, including Right to Life and the Women's Care Center, according to Dietz. Money for these donations and for the statue came primarily from game-day steak sales the chapter holds. 
In addition. members volunteer with organizations such as the Boys and Girls Club. The chapter, which was founded in April of 1910, includes about 100 Notre Dame students among its mem7 hers. 
@].@:] 


I~ ~ [ill 
~,Msoc. 

~ CENTER _f,lm{,i•
FOR 

~ SOCIAL <( ~ ::JI CONCERNS 
i Thinking about how to spend next summer?
i 
want to gain valuable experience? 
iI 
THE
I 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT 
IS YOUR ANSWER! 
@! • SPEND 8 WEEKS PROMOTING SOCIAL JUSTICE TIIROUGH DIRECT SERVICE @J • CHOOSE FROM OVER 120 SITES ACROSS TIIB NATIONI •EARN 3 THEOLOGY CREDITS (WITI-l POSSIBLE CROSSLISTS) @ • RECEIVE A $1 900 TUITION SCHOLARSIDP FOR THE FAU. 2001 SEMESTER
i • 
MAKE VALUABLE CONTACTS WITH ND ALUMNI 
i 
THINK ABOUT IT. . .






Ii • 
'"'°'"""°"""°""Nos " WE"'"'"'"" sOCTAc mNcr= 
~ TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24 AT 6:00 PM ~ WEDNESDAY, NoVEMBER 8 AT 7:00 PM ~ THURSDAY, NoVEMBER 30 AT 7 :00 PM
i 
i
i 
~ 
@! 
~i
i 
i
i
! 
. ~ 
@) 
i @ 
~ 
~
I
I 
~ 
il!l
I 
~ 
@].@] 

page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, October 9, 2000 
up to Australia, putting Jenny Thompson in the position for
Benko 
continued from page 1 
rrccstylc, 200-meter back­stroke, and the 800-mcter freestyle relay, representing the United States and Elkhart, Indiana. 
While she was disappointed with her individual perfor­mances, she emerged tri­umphant in the 800 relay. On her leg of the rnlay she caught victory. 
After her victory her grand­parents said that Benko looked at her mother in disbelief. sav­ing, "Mommy, I won a gold medal!'' 
Speaking to the crowd after the ceremony, Benko said the greatest honor was being able to represent her hometown. 
"It's wonderful tu be a part uf this community and represent you guys." 
CAMPAIGN 2000 


Lazio, Clinton trade barbs in NY debate 
Associated Pre.s 
NEW YOHK 
Ilillary Hodham Clinton, !'ac­ing Hepublican Hep. Hick Lazio in the second debate of their Senate campaign, took him to task Sunday for what she says is a violation of thoir agree­ment to ban outside money from tlrn race. 
" L a s t 

Clinton
month, Mr. Lazio said this was an issue of trust and character. lie was right," Clinton said. "J\nd. if New Yorkers can't trust him to keep his word for 10 days, how can limy trust him for six years." 
Lazio, who insists he has not violated the 
agreement. 

"Mrs. Clinton, please, litmus test for
blasted her 
judicial confir­

no lectures from 
back, raising 
mation votes.

the issue of Motel I 600." 
The two dis­
whether the 
agreed on
Clintons have 

Rick Lazio everything
used sleep­
from public

overs at the Senate candidate 
White House and Camp David to generate campaign contributions. 
"Mrs. Clinton. please, no lec­tures from Motel 1600," he said, referring to the White House's 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue address. 
In what turned out to be a one-hour, rapid-lire exchange of ideas, charges and counter­charglis, Clinton was even asked by one journalist to explain her decision to stay with President Clinton after his affair with Monica Lewinsky became pub­lic knowledge. 
"The choices that I've made in my life are right for me," she said. "I can't talk about anybody else's choices. I can oaly say mine have been based on my 
believe is right and important." Lazio was careful not to criti­cize his opponent on that. 
"I think this was Mrs. Clinton's choice, and I respect whatever choice that she makes," he said. "This race is about the issues, about who can be most effective for New York." 
On the issues, Lazio was asked who he admired on the 
U.S. Supreme Court with par­ticular attention Lo the abortion issue. He picked Sandra Day O'Connor. a He publican who supports abortion rights. 

For her part, Clinton criticized Republican presidential candi­date George W. Bush for saying he admired Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas, two anti­abortion judges on the high court. Clinton has said she would never vote to confirm judges who are opposed to abortion rights. Lazio has 
refused to make that a 
financing ul' 
campaigns ­he opposes, she supports -to a domed stadium f'or the West Side of Manhattan -she oppos­es, he supports. 
After the debate, Clinton said she !'cit "very good about it. I got to talk about the issues. I drew the contrasts. I feel like it was a good exchange." 



-C la55ic:al or C la55ic Rock? · Sim"µ;,~s or PJs. Paramount or Warner? WXYZ or WDIV? Reach or Frequency? A&EorDiscovery? MTVorVHl? iBlastorGeoCast? GQorMaxim? Dawson's Creek or Buffy? ~;U 0 !'<.Pia"? CNN or MSNBC?
' 
Time Warner or Sony? FOX or WB? Palm or Handspring? Leno or Letterman? Bulletin or 30 Sheet? TLC or Lifetime? 
V (9Jeor Bazaar? Univision or Telemundo? Kerbango or NetRadio? Howar"d Stern or Rush Umbaugh? HyperTV or The Box?. 
CPM or CPP? TIME or Newsweek? PlayNow or MediaStation? 
west wt~ or who wants t.o Be a Mtilionatre? 
Law & Order or The Practice? Nickelodeon or Disney? Martha Stanert or Julia Child? Bulletin Board or Train Wrap? 
Big Brother or Real World? FOX Sports or ESPN?
V R
ibe or ol Ii ng Stone? 
AOL or Yahoo? Direct Mail or Email? Paramount or Warner? Superbowl or Worldcup? Biography or Intimate Portrait?-. . Fl~orminders or Aislevision? 
~urmet or Bon Appeut? Essence or Ebony? : lSs or :JOs? Cosmopolitan or Glamour? Wink or Respond TV? 
SmartPhones or Telemarketing? 
Oscars or Emmys? Fast Company or Industry Standard? 
iPeople or Entertainment Weekly? McNel-l..elD' or lardlal? ETV or ITV? New York Times or Wall Street Journal? Netv,a-k TV or Syndication? ER or Chicago Hope? Banner or Interstitial? Barnes&nob1e.com or Borders.com? Postcards or Postering? 
I Career ItStarcom or something Boring? 
We are in the business of making choices. If vou find these tvPes of choices intriguing, Starcom mav be the place for vou. Come find out more at our presentation todav at The Morris Inn staning at 7PM. 
Or go to www.starcomworldWlde.com. It's vour choice. 


Starcom 
Recycle The Observer. 




ATION 
Monday, October 9, 2000 COMPILED FHOM THE 0HSERVEH WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD News BRIEFS 
Rebels fight with Russian police: 
Chechen rcbe\s crossed the border into the neighboring republic of Ingushctia and attacked a police patrol. killing two officers and wounding three others, a police official said Sunday. The rebels opened fire on the police car Saturday evening as it patrolled near the town of Vozncsenskoye, just across the border from northeastern Checlmya, an oflicial in the Ingushetian Interior Ministry in Nazran sai-d. 

Poisoned alcohol kills 41 people: 
Forty-one people died in San Salvador after drinking sugarcane liquor contaminated with methyl alcohol, health officials said Sunday. Police suspect black-marketers are filling dis­carded bottles with methyl alcohol, which is used as antifreeze. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Protestors argue KKK statue: An atonal mix of "We Shall Overcome" and "Dixie" rang out in Selma this weekend as two sides argued over a memorial to a Civil War hero and Ku Klux Klan leader. A dozen demonstrators Saturday protested the unveil­ing of a statue of Confederate Gen. Nathan Bedford Forrest. saying the monument should not have been erected in a mostly black neighborhood in this landmark city of the civil rights struggle. 
Sex offenders back in custody: 
Eight of nine sex offenders who were turned loose in the weeks between a state Supreme Court ruling on parole guidelines and the court's agreement to reconsider were taken back into custody on Sunday. "The ninth parolee is believed to be out of state, and offi­cers are working with officials there," said Alison Morgan. spokeswoman for the state Departm_ent of Corrections. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 


Authorities target Indiana gun laws: 
Federal authorities have targeted Indiana as one of the nation's "source states" for firearms purchased legally and later used in crimes. Police say the ease with which weapons can be bought in Indiana, coupled with demand from neighboring Illinois with its more restrictive gun laws, creates a steady flow of weapons between the two states. Traces performed on guns taken from the streets of Chicago show that Indiana is one of the city's chief suppliers of handguns, said Scott Thomasson, resident agent. 
Market Watch 10/6 
Dow 


10,596.54 -128.38 
]ONES 
Composite
Up: 
Volume:
SS.l 
1,150,109,952 
AMEX; 920,7'1 •9,22 , Nasdaq: 3361.01 -111.09 
NYSE: 663,04. · <,-4,71 
S&P 500: 1408.99 -27.29 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMJ>ANYISECURITY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -2.59  -1.06  3'J84  
CISCO sYSTE:-.iS (CSCOJ  -2.38  -1..l?  56.19  
DELL COMPUTER (DELL)  +0.49  +0,ll  25.JI  
WORLDCOM INC (WCOM)  · ,2.88  -.75  25. I~  
NASDAQ 100 SHAil (QQQJ  -3.35  -l.87  83.00  

YUGOSLAVIA 


Associated Press 
BELGRADE 
Fresh from engineering the ouster of Slobodan Milosevic, backers of President Vojislav Kostunica wrestled Sunday with a new daunting task -creating a governnrnnt free of powerful Milosevic allies without alienating them. 
Even though Kostunica's authority was cemented by his inauguration as Yugoslav president Saturday, potential resis­tance to him remained on two levels: from Milosevic appointees still in place in federal ministries and from the powerful govern­ment of the Serbian repub­lic. 
Serbia, one of two Yugoslav republics, makes up 90 percent of Yugoslavia's population of 10 million. Its pro­Milosevic president -who by law has more powers than Kostunica -controls about 100,000 police, and indirectly much of Serbia's economy. 
In addition, the Yugoslav army. whose top leader­ship switched loyalties to Kostunica on Friday, obliquely criticized the unrest that helped bring him to power. 
In a statement after a 

Albright: Arafat can stop violence 
A>sociated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said Sunday Palestinian. leader Vasser Arafat could and should stop the violence gripping the West Bank and Gaza, and Israeli forces should step back from con­frontation. 
As Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak pressed an ultimatum to Vasser Arafat to rein in Palestinian rock-throwers by Monday night, Albright refused to assign blame to either side for the worst Palestinian-meeting Sunday between Kostunica and the top army leadership, the army said that it expressed con­cerns "about certain occurrences in the country during the postelection period that are not in accordance with the con­stitution and the law." 

The statement indicated that the military was aban­doning the role of com­plete subservience that it played under Milosevic for the more traditional one of a pillar upholding law and order in Yugoslavia. 
How to keep the state running on near empty coffers was another prob­lem -Yugoslavia is bank­rupt after a decade of sti­fling international anti­Milosevic sanctions and widespread corruption. 
A top economist tipped to become the new central bank governor Sunday said a further blow to the country's economy was narrowly averted in the dying days of the Milosevic regime. 
Mladan Dinkic, who heads the team of Kostunica's economic advisers told a televised phone-in program that backers of the new presi­dent turned off the central bank's computer system to prevent raids on state cof­fers by Milosevic cronies. 
Israeli violence in four years. 
"We need to look forward, we need to get them to step back from each other so there is no cycle of violence," she said. 
Barak, on NBC's "Meet the Press," 
_insisted Arafat "initiated this whole series of events, ... (and) we know he can stop it" within 12 hours. If he does not, "it means he deliberately decided to put an end to the peace process and go back into a conflict," the prime minister said from Israel. 
Israel already has used armor, heli­copters and live ammunition in con­frontations with Palestinians, leaving more than 80 dead. Barak did not say what additional force he might use in any escalation. But on CBS' "Face the Nation," Barak registered his deter­mination to defend Israel. 

"We are living in a place where there is no mercy for the weak and no second opportunity for those who do not defend themselves," he said. 
As Barak and others made the rounds of the Sunday talk shows, Israel's army was building its force on another front, along the northern border with Lebanon. Iranian-hacked llezbollah Lebanese guerrillas cap­tured three !sraeli soldiers Saturday. 
_J 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 9, 2000 
level. This is her life right Competing away from home allow some athletic events to Sullivan considers it to be one now." While Saint Mary's athletic come close to home for Saint of' the best facilities they have 
Hut she does see how Saint teams continue to improve in Mary's swimmers, serving as the opportunity to compete in, Mary's is bPhind other colleges the MIAA, improvement can be the host facility for the MIAA because of Notre Dame's and universities in athletics. · difficult without facilities of Championships last February. Division I status. 
"Definitely we have lacked in their own. Swimmers currently. It was the first time in school She also appreciates the a lot of things that conference practice across thl' street at history a Championship had quality and coaching ability of schools have because of Title Rolfs Aquatic Center and been hosted by Saint Mary's -her new coach. IX." Norman said. "Its hard to golfers are off-location at a golf even though the pool is not "She's del'initcly stepped up bring in good athletes because course in Michigan. The track technically their own facility. the program," Sullivan said of you don't have the same advan­team cannot compete on cam­"If we did have our own pool Ilildcbrandt. tages to offer them that other pus due to a lack of facilities. it would be a huge advantage," "It's already very dilforcnt. I schools have." "If we want to compete with Colleen Sullivan, co-captain of was on the team my freshman 
According to Norman, the other all-women's institutions the swim team, said. "We year. and then abroad my budget is the principal prob­across the country, we have would probably have our own sophomore year, and I saw the lem. work to do. It's about my stu­pool if we were co-cd. BuL wc difference last year. llow well 
"Saint Mary's has a lot lo dent-athletes getting in here arc lucky to be able to swim at we arc doing is a credit to offer but [other schools') bud­and fighting for what we want. ND," Illildebrandtl, She is there f'or gets are so much bigger. It's It's about providing those Still, Sullivan feels like an us all the time. We have totally because we don't have the ben­opportunities from top to bot­outsider when she goes over to improved since she got here." efits of Title IX. It's not all bad tom. The hardest part about it Notre Dame to practice and to "The thing that hard for me is but it is very different because is that I want it done yester­compete. the student athletes who can't all these institutions have so day." "It feels like we're in some­compete here because we don't much more than we. do." While the swim team has the one else's plare," Sullivan said. have the f'acilities !'or them," 
While Kachmarik is commit­advantage of a full-time coach "Still, we really appreciate our Kachmarik said, ted to atlending to the needs of in llildebrandt, being forced time in the pool at ND. If wc But even facing adversity, the existing teams. it concerns off-campus to compete and had our own we could have Saint Mary's makes tlwir her that Saint Mary's cannot practice takes it toll on the more morning practices, but improvements with pride and provide more athletic opportu­team. we swim just as much as every­continues to look towards the nities for the students. The team has been able to body else. I don't think we are future. 
"That worries me because I overcome the lack of adequate at much of' a disadvantage." "All of this limprovcmentl is don't want to give this message facilities more easily than some The fact remains, however, only going to enhance the and not be able to give equal other Saint Mary's programs, that were it not for Notre admissions quality of Saint opportunities for our women however, by using Notre name's generosity, Mary's to prospective students. now," Kachmarik said. Dame's pools. Saint Mary's swimmers would It will also increase endowment 
Notre Dame's facility does be without a place lli practice. and alumni opportunities." 
Election 2000 

Title IX 
continued 'from page I 
rilic." 
In the meantime, the athletic dcpartrnrnt has found ways to work with a limited budget. Part of' Lhal effort was the development of' a cheerleading squad. a new addition to the club sports program that Saint Mary's of'fors. Due to over­whelming support for the cheerleaders. a dance squad was also formed. But while both of' th,~se programs provide alleys for Saint Mary's women to expand their athletic partic­ipation, they do not come with­out cost. 
And they leave Kachmarik struggling with the budget issue, even with low-cost pro­grams. 
"Wl' have a chccrleading squad." Kachmarik said .."But wn need money for that. And a week later, we have a dance squad. Do we have the financial resources to do (that!'? IWc don't.I but I can't say no." 
The challenge\ of balancing new activities with existing var­sity athletics also exists. 
"At some time \Ve need lo take care of our teams that we have," Kachmarik said. "Before I support another team, we need to support the ones we have, with coaches. assistant coaches, and facilities. Until we get full-time sports staff we won't be as competitive. The way things happened before isn't going to be good enough." 
The presence of the coach 
Steps have been made although small ones -to employ a full-time sports staff. Gretchen llildebrandt, hired last year to coach women's swimming, also serves as the assistant athletic director. Suzanne Smith. sports informa­tion director and head women's basketball coach, will be the second full time coach to work in the department. Smith was hired this fall. 
Kachmarik wants to extend that opportunity to the other athletic teams as well, but steps must be incremental. The tim­ing, however, is critical. Saint Mary's has suffered in their position in the MIM because of a lack of full-time coaches. 
A study conducted by Kachmarik last year for the administration reported that Saint Mary's is not in accor­dance with the MIAA because of the lack of full-time coaches, placing last among member schools for full-time coaching staffs. 
The effects of fulr-time coach­

es arc not lost on the athletes, 
who enjoy having the connec­
tion with their coaches on cam­
pus. Julie Norman. co-captain 
of women's basketball at Saint 
Mary's, has play,1d under both 
part-time coaches and new full­
time coach Smith. 
"So far its been great," said 

Julie Norman, senior co-cap­
tain ol' women's basketball. 
''You can tell she's very com­
mitted to the program. Its great 
to have her around. She's 
always there to work for us. 
She is always willing to help us 
with everything." 
The inl1uence of having Smith 

on campus will hopefully turn 
around the Belles' 3-13 record 
in 1999. Norman, who led her 
team last season with 10 points 
already seus a big difference in 
Urn team under Smith's direc­
tion. 
"It is signiricantly different 

this year," Norman said. 
''ISmilhl is absolutely ccmunit­
lcd to bringing us lo the next 








Monday, October 9, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
ISRAEL 

Barak's ultimatum looms over Arafat, Palestinians 
The Iranian-backed Israel from Lebanon," Barak 
Associaced Press 
llczbollah militia dedicated said. Saturday's operation to the To Arafat, he repeated the
JEHUSALEM Palestinians who have died in ultimatum he deliveredIsrael on Sunday prnssed its the recent clashes. The fight­Saturday night; end the vio­
ultimatum to Palestinian 
ing has claimed 84 lives so far, lence by Monday evening,leader Vasser Arafat: order an most Palestinian. when Yorn Kippur ends. 
end to the violence within a On Sunday, Israeli soldiers "If we will not see the differ­day or the peace talks are over found the body ol' a Jewish set­ence actively implemented on
and what's more, 
tler missing since Saturday. the ground, and a calming
Palestinian commanders rould Hillel Lieberman, 37, formerly down of the situation reallybecome targets. 
of Brooklyn, N.Y.. was found o.ccurring, we will draw theIsraelis settled down to fast 
through Yorn Kippur won­dering whether their Day of Atonement, which ends at sundo·wn Monday, would carry echoes of the same terrify­ing day 27 years ago when a sur­prise Arab attack launched a Mideast war. 
shot to death in a cave near a conclusion that Arafat deliber­
"If we will not see the diference actively implemented on the ground ... we will draw the conclusion that Arafat deliberately has decided to abandon negotiations." 
Ehud Barak Prime Minister of Israel 
The United 
States stepped up its efforts to get the sides talking again. 
The days of rage that have consumed Israel, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip since Sept. 28 have spread else­where: Israel was building up its forces on its northern bor­der after Lebanese guerrillas seized three Israeli soldiers. shattering the calm that has prevailed there since Israel withdrew from Lebanon in May. 
West Bank ately has decided to abandon highway. the negotiations," Barak said. 
''He was lie did not specify what shot by Israel would do, but one of his Palestinians," top military aides said Israel said police would move from a defensive spokesman to an offensive posture. and Kafi Yafe. could target Palestinian com­
In Nazareth, manders. a 42-year-old "We could ... as far as 1 am t\rab man concerned, even attack the died from a headquarters of those respon­bullet wound sible for the situation," Maj. to the chest Gen. Uzi Dayan. Barak's late Sunday. national security adviser, told Najib Nufed, a lsracl radio. Deputy Defense spokesman at Minister Ephraim Sneh said 
Holy Family Hospital in Nazareth, said the victim was killed during youth clashes. Police were using tear gas to separate the sides there. 
Touring Israel's northern border, Prime Minister Ehud Barak had a simple message for the Palestinians, for the Lebanese, and for the Syrians who are the real power in Lebanon: It's up to you to stop this from escalating. 
"Syria has supreme responsi­bility to ensure that there will not be hostile actions against a permanent Security Council member -and that U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan might come soon. 


Israelis -even the most dovish among them -rejected the Security Council statement, saying it resurrected the orga­nization's bias against the Jewish state. 
"It happened that we sur­vived the harsh language of the U.N. many times in the past," said Avraham Burg, the speaker of the Israeli parlia­ment. 
In truth, Israelis were sorely disappointed that the United States did not vote rather than using its veto to quash the statement. 
The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Richard Holbrooke. said the United States abstained with "clear 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME distaste," but that it had little 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 


TUESDAYS TUESDAYS 
10/24--12/5 10/24-12/5 6:45 -8pl11/ 12:10-12:50
YOGA 

$25 
$20 
VNESVAYS 11-lU'RSVAYS 
10(25-12(6 10(26-12(7 12:10-12:50 6:4-5 -8p1111 
FREMANTLE, AUSTRALIA 

$20 $21 
"The Land Down Under" 
INFORMATION MEETING With 
TAI CtlI
Julliet Mayinja, Assistant Director Fr. Wilson Miscamble, C.S.C. 
WEDNESDAYS 
10/25-12/6
Tuesday October· I 0, 2000 

5:30-6:25 0r 6:45-7:LfD

102 DeBartolo 
4:45-5:45 P.M. 
$21 
R~~
APPLICATION DEADLINE: DECEMBER 1, 2000 
Applications available www/nd.edu/~intlstud 

Registration begins Tuesday, October 10, 7:30am in the RSRC. 1-6100 with questions. 
Israel had barely used "1 per­cent" of its force in dealing with the Palestinians. 
The Palestinians said it was up to the Israelis to stop the shooting, and laid down their own condition: accept a U .N. Security Council call for an international commission to investigate the violence. 
Nabil Aburdeneh, Arafat's chief adviser, echoed Barak's challenge, giving the Israelis 24 hours to stop shooting. He said Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov would visit the region on Monday -Russia is 

Israeli "It happened that we And the war­cease-fire" 
like rhetoric

survived the harsh 
refused to sub­first. 

lang11age ofthe UN 
side. later, stone­many times in the past." A leaflet 
H o u r s 
signed by
th rowers 
Arafat's Fatahbesieged an 

Avraham Burg 
faction
Israeli army 

speaker of Israeli parliament appeared in 
choice if it wanted to influence all sides, citing "great dangers that exist in the region of the Middle East today.''. 
The anger has spread through much of the Arab world, with protesters in Iraq, Syria, Egypt and Jordan focus­ing their fury on the act that set off the rioting in Jerusalem: a visit by hard-line opposition leader Ariel Sharon to a shrine holy to Muslims and Jews. 
President Clinton scrambled to prevent the crisis from esca­1 a ting into war, canceling other engagements and calling Barak and Arafat throughout the day. Barak's Cabinet secre­tary. Yitzhak Ilerzog. said Clinton had invited the sides to a summit on Tuesday. U.S. officials said they knew of no such invitation. 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said the responsibility to end the violence was on both sides. "There has to be disengagement," she told NBC's "Meet the Press." 
In one conciliatory sign, senior Israeli and Palestinian officers met under U.S. aus­pices in the Gaza Strip and agreed to coordinate security issues -restoring a degree of the cooperation that existed before the violence began. 
Israeli Maj. Gen. Yorn Tov Samia told Abdel Razek Majaida, a Gaza security chief. that he expected an immediate stop to the shooting. Majaida was noncommittal. saying he wanted to see a "total 
outpost near the isolated Jewish set­tlement of Netzarim in Gaza, while Majaida's Palestinian police looked on -but for the first time in days, no Palestinian gunmen were pre­sent. · 
Similar security agreements have dissolved within hours in the past week, but this one appeared to be holding into the evening, with minor clash­
es  reported  only  in  a  
Jerusalem  suburb and  in  
Bethlehem.  

After nightfall Sunday, spo­radic fighting in several areas. 

Heavy gunfire exchanges between Palestinian gunmen and Israeli soldiers left four Palestinians wounded. And in Jerusalem, scores of Arabs and Jews thew stones at one another. Police stepped in and fired rubber 
bullets. 
the West Bank 

warning resi­dents to "take no heed of the ceasefire" and to target sol­diers and settlers, although it was likely distributed by a small group within Fatah unhappy with Arafat's earlier efforts at peace negotiations. 
Barak planned another Cabinet meeting as soon as Yorn Kippur ended, and was reportedly consulting with hard-liners about establishing an emergency government. Arafat invited peace talks opponents to his Cabinet meet­ing Sunday night. 

VIEWPOINT 
-~------· 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, No,n: Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nam, Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIF.F 
Mike Coonolly 
MANACING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Tim Lane  
Assr. MANAGING EDll'OR  OPERATIONS MANACl'.R  
Christine Kr.ly  Brian Kessler  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie M,mingly V11,:wro1~r EDITOR: Lila Haughey Srol\TS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARr'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EorroR, Elizabeth Lang 
AoVF.RTISING MANAGER; Par Peters An DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunvilk WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROI.U:.R: Rob Wood, GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGERIGENEIW. INF0..............631-7471 Fu......................................., .............. .......631-6927 ADVERTISING.............,.... ,..................63 J-6')00/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHI.EF.. ......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/A'i.~T. ME .................... 631-4541 
BUSINESS OFFICE....................................631-5313 
Nt-WS..........._..............................................631-5323 obscrver.obsnews. l@nd_edu Vn-.WPOINI'......................-........................-.631-5303 obscrver.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SroRTS ....................................... , ...... -......-..631-4543 observer.spom.1@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ... _.............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.11dedu for daily upd.ites ofCUTIpus news, spartS, fo11ures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Prrss. 
SURF TO: 
wradier for up-co-rhe 
movies/musk for 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudent reviews 
advertise for palicies 
onlinc features for spe­
.m<l rates of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives co search for 
about The Obsrrver 
artidrs published afrer 
ro meet rhe editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES The Obsrrvcr is rhc indcp<'ndenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of rhe Univmiry ofNorre Dame du ~c and Saine Mary's 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by palicirs of rhe administration ofeither ins1iru1ion. The Observer rcservrs the righr ro refuse 
adverrisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reparted as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, As..istant Managing Editor and deparrmenr editors. Commentarirs, lerrers and columns present the views ofrhe aurhors and nor necessarily rhose ofThe Obsrrver. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The frrc nprcssion of all opinions chrough letters is encouraged. Leners to rhc Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom rrgardi11g Observerpolicies should be direct­,dto Editor in Chi,f Milu Connolly. 

O
THE BSERVER Monday, October 9, 2000 

Napster restores music's excitement 
I wasn't around last spring for the music-swapping craze that clogged the University bandwidth, and, in the end, forced Notre Dame to ban Napster from network computers. I was abroad in 
London. But when I  
returned stateside in May, Napster's  Scott Blaszak  
battle with the  
Recording Industry Association of  The Early  
America was big  Essays  
news.  
After my sister got  

me up to speed (she didn't really under­stand how the service worked but, she certainly grasped what it could offer: unlimited free music), I immediately logged on Napster and was impressed by its extensive and efficient library of songs. I downloaded a song by Nick Drake, a British songwriter I'd read good things about. Twenty minutes later I lis­tened to the song. I liked it. Later that week I bought the CD. 
This, you see, is the heart of the con­troversy. Does Internet music swapping encourage or deter record sales? In my case, Napster provoked a sale that might not have occurred. Napster purports that music swapping "facilitates communica­tion between people interested in music" that will, in the end, strengthen the music industry. They explain music swapping with words like "sample," "preview" or "sharing." 
The RIAA objects to Napster's diction, choosing more incriminating words such as "piracy," "theft" and "copyright infringement" to describe the rampant digital bootlegging over the past year. A San Francisco judge will have the final say, perhaps very soon, but, whatever the specific decision on Napster, a hand­ful of clones are waiting to scoop up Napster's seven million users should Napster orphan them. Legislate all you want, the Internet will not go away. And, until piracy technology catches up to copyright technology, those who earn a living from copyright enforcement are in danger. 
The record companies realize this. so as their lawyers battle with Napster in California courtrooms, their executives are searching for alternative revenue models. Not surprisingly. what they've come up with follows Napster's lead: dig­ital music exchange over the Internet, but on a pay-per-download or subscrip­tion basis. 
Another alternative, much less attrac­tive to the major music labels, has the artist releasing a portion of his song to the public for free, then asking for money from anyone who downloads it. If the artist receives enough money, he releases the rest of the song. If not, the public could be stuck with half a song. It's been called the ransom model, and it's certainly intriguing, but I see it as only practical for artists with a die-hard following, whereas entertainment sales are so often a consequence of the impulse buy. How can an unestablished artist expect the loyalty that the ransom model requires from an immature or list­less fan base? 
Still, the ransom model introduces a revolutionary idea to a since-recently rigid industry. It suggests that, even on large scales, the middleman is not indis­pensable. Think of it. If terminally under­paid artists could sell directly to a termi­nally overpriced public ... 
No doubt it's this line of thought that has so many young and unestablished musicians backing Napster. Not only that, Napster increases promotion and, in this day ofstale radio programming and vanilla music television, is perhaps the most capable means of creating underground buzz. 
Many successful artists, however, fear­ful ofshaking up an arrangement that's proven lucrative to them, have protested Napster. Metallica's Lars Ulrich has been the most prominent of them all. dropping his drumsticks for a legal pad and taking interviews all over ithe television. But this is a precarious stance for Metallica because, by aligning itself against Napster, it risks aligning itself against its fans. 

I. for one. have a hard time sympathiz­ing with Metallica. For a band that has for more than 10 years profited from the exposure generated by bootlegging to come 011' so high-minded about the artist's control of their body of work is hypocritical. 
Besides, it seems to me that the artists need not worry. They make the music, , write the books, paint the pictures; theirs is an irreplaceable commodity. It's the businessmen in trouble. Napster could instigate a system of music release via the Internet that has artists selling directly to Internet sites that, like radio stations, earn revenue through advertis­ing sales. In such a situation or if the ransom model proves successful, those in charge of the record industry, as we now know it, could be squeezed out. Admittedly, it's not very likely-busi­nessmen have wedged themselves between the artists and the public for too long to think they won't succeed al the endeavor once again -but it's a treat to watch. the suits squirm as Napstcr turns the industry on its head. 
And, if by chance the corporate higher­ups find their stranglehold on the music industry loosened, even slightly, you won't find me broken up over it. Of the boy-band/Britney Spears craze I've had enough; popular music hasn't been so manufactured since Tin Pan Alley. And there's some amusement I find in watch­ing industry heads mount the soapbox and trumpet ethics to teenagers they've deliberately ripped off for years. 
More than anything else, though, Napster has breathed some life, some 
· youthful rebelliousness, some rock and roll into the music scene. Steal the tunes, burn a disc, watch the court cases, get the newest music the fastest way ever; Napster makes music exciting again. 
Scott Blaszak is a senior English major. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAlv[S 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
DILBERT 

E 
~ 
0•
@ 
I 
-I 
a 
8
• 
E 
8 
l 
'u 
I 


"Affirmation of life is the spiritual act by which man ceases to live unreflectively and begins to devote himselfto life with reverence in order to raise it to its true value. " 
Albert Schweitzer philosopher 
WORSE YET I NO ONE I< NCI.JS WHAT THAT MEANS OR WHOSE 
RESPONSIBILITY IT 
15 TO FIX IT. 
\ 
.; 
.!: 
i 
.,• 
;; 
"' ~ 
.~ ~ 
"' 
"! 
c 
::, 
C, 
0 
~ 
Q 
j_,,. 'I 
WHO TOLD YOU ABOUT THE PROB­
LEM? 
IT WA& AN
l ANONYMOUS NOTE WITH DISAPPEAR­ING INK. 
\ 

-------------------------------------------~ 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Monday, October 9, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
Challenging 
•
creative campaign tactics 

I want to be fair from the outset and state clearly that Al Gore never claimed that he invented the Internet. What he did say was that he "took the initiative in creating the Internet." There are some Web sites which state that Al Gore cited himself as the net's sole author, but these are the same sorts of places which also, as Matt Loughran pointed out on Sept. 30, attribute many of Dan Quayle's greatest hits to Al Gore. 
It boils down to semantics. I know. but I can't let untruths go unchallenged. Whi'ch brings me to the main focus of this column. In the last sev­eral weeks, the vice president has uncorked a few exaggerations. These are not all "I did not have sexual relations with that woman Miss Lcwinsky"-type bald-faced lies, but more like the kind of tactics some of us use to turn a six­page paper into a seven-pager. 
Gore's first wild pitch of this campaign sea­son was on Aug. 28, when he used his mother­in-law as the centerpiece of a speech to senior citizens decrying the high cpst of prescription drugs. His emotional plea was based on the fact that Lodine, her arthritis prescription, was two and a half times the cost of a similar arthritis medication for the Gore family dog. 
It was an excellent and heart-wrenching speech, but soon it was discovered that the figures Gore used for his close-to-his-heart example of prescription price-gouging weren't accurate in the case of his mother-in-law. 
In fact, he pulled the price of Lodine from a congressional study, then transplanted that price to her. If Gore had simply quoted the study's price of Lodine and compared it to a veterinary arthritis drug, he would have made his point. But Gore centered the issue around his mother-in-law to tug on seniors' heartstrings. When someone called his bluff, he tried to alter the focus of his speech: ''The issue is not her, the issue is what seniors around the country are paying." 
On Sept. 18, at a speech before the Teamsters, he said that a child­hood lullaby he often heard was "Look For The Union Label," a com­mercial jingle that wasn't written until 1975. Either Gore's mommy was still rocking him to sleep at 27, or he pulled another fib. 
In the first debate last Tuesday, Gore spun a yarn involving Kailey Ellis, a 15-year-old high school student in Sarasota, Florida. According to Gore. Kailey has to stand during her science class because her school doesn't have enough funding to have another desk. But the school's principal, Daniel Kennedy, called Gore's ver­sion "misleading," pointing out that she was given a stool because the class was short a desk for one class period. 
The vice president's selective honesty is at its most caustic when he discusses George W. Bush's proposed policies. Gore has relent­lessly hammered Bush's plans, especially on taxes, often including figures that range from simply embellishing to plainly misleading. 
Gore criticized Bush's tax "scheme" by saying that it will "squan­der all our progress on a massive tax giveaway that primarily bene­fits the wealthy." 
In fact, Bush's plan will only use one-quarter of the projected $4.6 trillion surplus, according to a bipartisan committee. And the largest percentage cuts do not go to the super-rich, but to middle and lower­class households, especially those with children. 
Bush had finally had enough during the debate, correctly attesting that Gore was using "fuzzy math" to analyze his tax plan. But he later crossed the line by joking that Gore must have "invented the calculator" in addition to the Intflrnet. 
If you're a Democrat, the great thing about Gore's fudge-factor­filled campaign is that he has so effectively set the political .stage that if Bush calls him on his exaggerations, he appears to be "going nega­tive," as Gary Caruso pointed out last Friday. 
In the debate, Bush also questioned Gore's credibility, because the vice president openly supports the McCain-Feingold Campaign Reform Act despitP his documented history of shady campaign poli­cies. The attack, although personal, was entirely justified. But at a speech in Ohio the next day, Gore said, "I think it is better to spend time attacking America's problems than attacking people personal­ly." 
· Gorfl has-it both ways. But when you invent-excuse me, create -fabricated campaign strategies, the impossible becomes possible. 
Mike Marchand is an off-campus junior English major who wants lo dispel rumors ofa balding raccoon taking up residence on his face by stating that he is in fact attempting to grow a beard ... andfailing miserably. His e-mail address is Marchand.3@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Expressing gratitude towards ND community 
On behalf of Brionne Clary's friends and all of the women of Welsh Family Hall, I would like to extend our sincere gratitude for the support that the Notre Dame family has given us. The last two weeks have not been easy for any of us. but it has made us realize that there is no place that we'd rather be. 
There are many people who deserve our appreciation for what they have offered us in the past two weeks. 
Thank you to Tim Logan of The Observer for being so understanding of our situation and providing us with the opportunity to introduce Brianne to those who weren't fortunate enough to know her. 
Thank you to all of the residence halls whose communities offered prayers and support, especially Siegfried, Knott, Pangborn, Lewis and Lyons for the plants and cards that you sent. Your actions are a true representation of the family atmosphere that we hold so dear. 
Thank you to the administration for your constant concern and unwavering compassion. Thank you especially to Father Poorman and Bill Kirk, you were visible signs of genuine support from the night that we found out about Brianne through the day of her funeral and we cannot thank you enough for that. 
Thank you to the alumni club of Dallas for helping to arrange a ride for Kate and Sarah from the airport two hours to Tyler on such short notice. It just shows that we never really leave the shadow of the Dome. 
Thank you to the alumnus who paid for the airplane that flew seven of us to the funeral ­

Crusading against the killing 
Friday morning 1,500 crosses stretched from the reflecting pool to the stadium, marking the daily victims of abortion in the United States. Each cross stood for three lives: our country kills 4,500 people every day. 
We have reached a horrifying point in history in our society. We've adopted a philosophy that says we can judge the value of human life, even before it is born. In this country we are told, practically ordered, not to judge people for their sins; and yet it is acceptable, even encouraged, to judge the value of an innocent soul. 
People judge unborn life as unworthy and justify themselves by saying that a life should only be spared when it is wanted, when it is convenient, when it doesn't infringe on the mother's 
-right to happiness. But the value of life is intrinsic. The value of life does not depend on circum­stances. Life is precious; it is one of the greatest goods that exist. Denial of life, the taking of life, is one of the greatest evils. 
Take a look at tho rows of white crosses and think abdut the lives that are being taken. Think about the evil that is being done with the consent and approval of so many. 
Many students on our campus will sneer at the cemetery for the inno­cents; last year members of the Right to Life club were taunted as they took down the crosses in the evening. But just as depressing as the people who taunt and jeer are the people who walk by the cemetery without a second thought about it -the people who read the sign that tells them 4,500 lives will be taken today and do not see a tragedy in those numbers. · 
The Right to Life club sees the tragedy and your selflessness and generosity truly exempli­fies the Notre Dame spirit. 

Thank you to all of our families back home who called to check on us and just tell us that you loved us. You arc our life and our constant guide. 
Thank you to all of you who sent e-mails, let­ters and phone calls to Brionne's friends. Know that your kind words and gestures meant much more than you probably know. 
Thank you to all in the Notre Dame family who offered a simple smile or a shoulder to cry on -it's people like you who make this place so special. 
Thank you to the Clary family for allowing us to meet your daughter and call her our friend over the past two years. Your strength, character and faith have helped each of us see where Brianne got it from. 
And lastly, thanks 'B.' You always have been and always will be our example of strength, courage, faith and loyalty. Thank you for always being there with that one of a kind smile and that heart of gold. 
Some people ask why you were taken from us, but a very wise person told me that instead we should ask why you were given to us. You are our angel and we will always remember you ... thank you. 
Katie Rak 
senior 
Welsh Family Hall October 3, 2000 

fights against it. We fight by prayer, saying 
rosaries for life. We fight by helping crisis preg­
nancy centers and protesting at the March for Life in Washington, D.C. We fight by making our fellow students aware ofthe killing taking place in our country -the totally approved, totally accepted killing that goes on every day. There are many who will ask why we keep fighting. "It's a lost cause," they will say. "Abortion is here to stay and you won't change any­one's mind with a lawn full of white crosses." Are they right? Are we fight­ing for a cause that no longer has any hope? If you look at the cemetery and ask if we could ever possibly save those 4,500 lives, you'll say "No, it is hope­less.'' But if you look at one cross and ask if we might per­suade one woman to give her child life instead of death, then there is hope. Now is not the time to despair! Now is the time to fight for life. Now is the time to fight because life is pre­cious, because every unique soul created by God at concep­tion deserves a chance to live, no matter the circumstances sur­f rounding the conception. Now is the time to fight because we can­not _stand by and let this killing contmue. We will fight for life and we will not stop until the cemetery is empty. We will fight until the killing stops. 
Sheila Payne 
sophomore Cavanaugh Hall October 8, 2000 

C 
s
en@ 

page 10 Monday, October 9, 2000 
Welcome (back) to the 80s 
llav(' you ever wond('rcd what it might have been 
likl' to be a coll!'ge student in the 1980s? To take a 
crimping iron to your hair before your 9:30 COHE 
class or stay in on Monday nights to watch Miami 
Vien? W<\II, it looks as if you may get your chancn. The· 
fashions and fixtures. of the '80s 
are back in style and arc working 
their punkcd-out-ncw-wave ways 
into a shopping mall, movie theater 
and radio station rwar you. 
\,\'ho nvcr would have thought I.hat jean jackets. bangle bracelets and gold lamci would be stylish again'? I remember being in the fourth grad<!, begging my mother to buy me a Guess? denim jacket for my birthday, knowing that own­ing that particular piece of clothing would indeed guarantee me a charmed life. I did get the jacket, and paired with my jelly bracelets and newly-pierced ears I was the epitome of' grammar school '80s style. Six months down the road, however. that jacket ended up crumpled up in the back or my closet, hidden underneath a pile of Teen magazine back issues. Little did I know that. a decade later, I would again be ask­ing my mother to buy me a new denim jacket for my birthday. 
It's not only the clothes that have recycled them­selves back into the mainstream. Everywhere you go, the sounds and synthesizers of the 80s arc blaring from someone's speakers. Whether it's Bon Jovi's long-haired anthem "Livin' on a Prayer" being blasted from the sound system of' the local bar of your choice, or Cindy Laupcr's perennial favorite, "Girls'Just Want to !lave Fun," topping anyone's MP3 list. the airwaves have come alive again with the music you heard on the way to Little League practice. 
What the '80s couldn't resurrect musically (except mayb.c on Vlll 's "Where are they Now?" series) has been recycled into a shiny new package, better known as a boy band. The New Kids on the Block, Tiffany and Debbie Gibson cassettes that played regularly on your boom box are now the Backstreet Boys, Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera mp3s coming to you directly from your f'rirrndly PC. And where better to display these midriff-baring pop stars than the Solid Gold or the millennium, MTV's Total Hequest Live? 
Even I lollywood has taken notice of the ·80s renais­sance. Hemember all of those John Hughes' films fea­turing Mnlly Hingwald and her teenage angst? The epitome of unadulterated cool back then. "Sixteen Candles" and "The Breakfast Club" arc still in heavy rotation on TNT and TBS today. Even now, these sto­ries of' adolescent love and anguish arc enjoying a recent surge in popularity, replacing the Hingwald and Judd Nelsnn characters with the likes of Julia Stiles, Katie Holmes and Freddie Prinze, Jr. 
If the '90s were all aboul minimalism and tiny cell phones, th!! '80s were the decade of excess and luxury· -and it's back. Big jewelry -and lots of' it -have taken the place of the minimal naturalist look that Seattle brought us a few years back. Glitter, rhine­stones. and sequins adorn the mannequins in the mall windows, and I know I spotted leg warmers in the "What's l!ip" section of the latest issue of Glamour. Who knew that we would Le turning to the years that brought "Diff'rent Strokes" and "Pretty in Pink" when deciding what to wear on a Friday night? It's enough to make a girl break out her stone-washed jeans, for­ever forgotten in the back r,f her closet. It seems that ev<'rythi ng old is new again. 
Although many nf us haven't even blown out the can­dles on our 21st birthday cake. we're already looking hack with nostalgia nn the decade in which we started kindergarten. We'll never entirely revert back to the '80s (I mean. really, who would want to settle for Mrs. Pac-Man wlwn you hav(, a Sony PlayStation?) but I do bcli1we that we are embracing and emulating the cul­ture and ideals of our childhood. 
As far as trends go, however, the '80s revival may be a fleeting thing. Next year we could all be rediscover­ing the world of polyester, platform shoes and Saturday Night Fever. But, for now. enjoy it. Turn up your collar. download a Billy Idol mp3. and remember thl\ days whl~n !lot Wheels were a big deal and every­one was going "Back to the Future." 
The opinions expressed in thi6' column are those of /he author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Jacqueline Browder 
In Vogue 

Wild women rule in Walsh Hall 

By LAURA KELLY 
Scene Writer 
"The W is for Wild, and the A 
is for Awesome. The L is for 
Loud, because you know that 
we have fun. The S is for Spirit 
and the H is for Hot, so come 
on. all you dorms and look 
what Walsh has got! Wild 
Women!" 
As the Walsh Hall sorig sug­gests. this God Quad dorm has its own distinct spirit. Built in 1909. much of its character is due to its age. Walsh was named after Father Thomas Walsh, sixth president of Notre Dame. 
Walsh was considered a more "luxurious" dorm in its early days. Not only did it have sin­gle rooms, but it also had built­in closets, suites with private baths, and a recreation area in the basement. According to the 1910 DOME, "Various devices of amuse­ment," such as ponl tables and bowling alleys were placed in the basement. "During the winter months [the bowling alleys] were thronged with students." 
Because of these luxu­ries. Walsh residents were soon labeled as the wealthy students, as their families were required to pay a prcm ium price. Neither the requirement nor the stereotype is true tnday, but Walsh's resi­dents are known to be 
W. I.L. D: "Wise In Life's Decisions." 
Walsh was also one of the first dnrms lo begin housing women in 1972. Since that time the women of Walsh have been known for their unity and spirit. 
Walsh is one of the smallest women's dorms on campus, with only 199 residents, but most say the small size is to Walsh ·s advantage. "I love living in a small dorm," said sopho­more Liz Caballero. "It's easy tn make close friends and you get to know every­one nn vour floor." 
"The· people ol Walsh Ila!! are what makes this 

"Everyone is so friendly and interested in each other, it makes a big difference for the freshmen tn have a home like this." 
Walsh has several unique features: bay windows with great views of the Dome and "quint" living situations with two bedrnoms. a large main comnrnn room and a bathroom. "I feel very lucky to be able to experience quint living. You get to live with four of your best friends." said Katie Malmquist, Walsh sophomore. "Having your own bathroom is pretty cool too." 
The private bathrooms and built-in closets that made Walsh unique in its early days are still favorite features for its residents. "Every ronm has its own personality," said Thomas. "Residents take a lot nf pride in their rooms." 

Wild Women are active in many kinds of dorm activities, from service prnjects and inter-hall sports to dorm mass­es on Sundays and Tuesdays. 
Sunday night Mass is the high point of the week for Thomas. "Our Masses are what Walsh is all about: everyone coming together to celebrate and par­ticipate." 
The Wild Women of Walsh are also knnwn for their Wild Weekend and fur the "Walsh Academy Fall Frnlic," the Catholic school girl SYH that is becoming an annual tradition. "The Catholic schoolgirl theme is by far the best SYH theme this school has ever come up with," said sophomore Jody Kahn. 
"I love Walsh for its charac­ter and fur the people here," said Kahn. "They're like nowhere else." 
pliice special." said Sister Walsh Hall is known for its unique bay windows and "quint" livingPatricia Thomas. four-year 
accomodations. 
rector of Walsh llall. 


NSIDER 
O
TIIE Monday, October 9, 2000 BSERVER Notre Dame vs. Stanford 

MEG KROENER/The Observer Sophomore tailback Julius Jones (22) was determined to make it into the end zone any way he could -upside down, backwards, head first or all of the above. Above, he found the end zone on a 7-yard run. 
Irish leave Cardinal seeing red with 20-14 win 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame cashed in on a Stanford interception. lost fumble and blocked punt to win 20-14 Saturday behind the offense of freshman quarterback Matt LoVecchio and multi-talented David Givens. 
Lovecchio, starting for the first time in his young career. engineered Notre Dame's longest scoring drive of the sea­son on the opening series.. an 11-play. 91-yard push downlield capped off by a 17-yard touchdown pass to Givens. 
"We really set the tone for the offense on that first drive.ff Lovecchio said. "All 11 guys really hung together and stuck it out." 
LoVecchio kicked the offense off with an 11-yard pass to tight end Dan O'Leary. He followed it up with a fake handoff to tailback Julius Jones that Lovecchio kept for a 10-yard gain and another first down. LoVecchio was 4­for-4 passing on the drive, and added three rushes for 17 yards. 
"Lovecchio did a good job with the execution," Irish head coach Bob Davie said. "He is one cool customer." 
Straying from the recent game plan of giving tailback Julius Jones the ball on 
Lo Vecchio, Givens set offensive tone with score on opening drive 
every play, seven Irish players got in on the action on the first drive. 
"In the opening drive, they did a good job of keeping us off-balance, and kept us back on our heels a little bit," Stanford head coach Tyrone Willingham said. 
The Irish (3-2) won despite gaining only 266 yards total offense.-compared to 384 by the Cardinal (2-3). The turnover differential determined the victor, as Stanford struggled to hang onto the pigskin. 
Stanford quarterback Chris Lewis rumbled a snap midway through the quarter, and Irish defensive lineman Anthony Weaver recovered at the Notre Dame 16. 
"They're a pretty solid defense, but at the same time, we made a lot of mis­takes," Stanford wide receiver DeRonnie Pitts said. "We beat our­selves." 
The Cardinal got another r.hanr.e to score late in the first half when Notre Dame kicker Nick Setta missed a 38­yard field goal. But the Irish defense held the Cardinal on three straight plays, and Givens broke through to block Mike Biselli's punt. 
"I think they made a mistake in cov­erage," Givens said. "Special teams is one of those things that can win or lose a game." 
FoUowing the blocked punt, the Irish took over on the Cardinal 10-yard line with 39 seconds to go in the second period, and Lovecchio hit Givens with an 8-yard touchdown pass 12 seconds later. Givens, a junior, became the first Notre Dame wide receiver to make two touchdown catches in a game since Derrick Mayos in the 1996 Orange Bowl. It was just the third scoring reception of his career. 
"That meant we were two touch­downs down instead of just one going into the locker room," Willingham said. "That changed the complexion of how we had to approach things in the sec­ond half." 
After being down 13-0 at half time, Stanford got onto the board with a 13­yard pass from Lewis to Pitts. The touchdown reception came on the heels of a 71-yard run by Brian Allen. 

But Stanford turned the ball over again in the third quarter when Irish linebacker Tyreo Harrison tipped a Lewis pass into the hands of Notre Dame cornerback Brock Williams. Jones scampered into the end zone three plays later, and Setta hit the point after attempt to put the Irish up 20-7. 
Notre Dame did not turn the ball over once. 
"The main thing is that we did not turn the football over," Davie said. "That has been a key for us all year. We have not committed very many turnovers." 
Turnover-prone a year ago when they gave the ball up 30 times, the Irish have committed just three turnovers in their first five games. 
Stanford missed an opportunity in the fourth quarter when Biselli shanked a 29-yard field goal. The Cardinal wrapped up the scoring with 1 :07 to play. Lewis, who went 19-of-31 for 242 yards on the day, threw a 14-yard touchdown pass to Darin Naatjes. 
Stanford attempted an onside kick but Notre Dame tight end Jabari Holloway recovered at the Stanford 45. 


player of the game  quote of the game  stat of the game  
David Givens  "They're a pretty solid defense,  2 Stanford turnovers, 1 blocked punt  
The junior receiver caught two  but at the same time, we made a  Notre Dame's defense forced  
touchdown passes, the first  lot ofmistakes. We should have  Stanford to make errors. A blocked  
Irish receiver to do so since  put more points on the board."  punt, a lost fumble and a Brock  
Derrick Mayes in 1996, and  DeRonnie Pitts  Williams interception turned the  
blocked a Stanford punt.  Cardinal wide receiver  game in Notre Dame's direction.  

Monday, October 9, 2000 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
report card 
B+ 
quarterbacks: LoVrcchio was at his best on the pla.t/s opening dri,,e. fie looked like a veteran from /he start. but faltered later on, gelling sacked thn!e tim<'s. 
B+ 
running backs: Fisher and Givens stepped up as Jones battled an injury. Jones still mana_qed an acrohalic touchdown and a 24-yard reception. 
A 
receivers: /1./otre Dame finally found its pnssing game. GivPns burst through with two TD recpplions. 0'1.eary, and 
Johnson made big plays. 
C+ 
offensive line: II let Stanford's defense through lo sack /,o\/ecchio three rimes. llnwe1ier. part ofthe prob/('m may 
hal'e been nerves by the freshman. 
B 
defensive line: Stanford go£ ujJ384 yards oftotal offr>nsP, too many for 
a11 unranked team. Weavt'r did pick 
up thefumble by Lewis. 
A-
linebackers: Denman (team-high 7 tackles) and !Joiman{5 tackles) con­tinued their sobd play. Pressured Lewis all day and contained the run. 
B+ 
defensive backs: Williums' return has sparked the defense. Ile had a sack, interception and caught /\lien early in the third quarter. preventing a touchdown. Walton, Israel and Driver all played well. 
special teams: Again a booster for theB+ Irish. Givens' blocked punt was huge, and Jones had a 50-yd. kickoff return. Setta missed a PAT and PG. 
B 
coaching: The "handcuffs" were taken offthe offense but the Irish still man­
aged only 266 yards. Lo Vecchio was a good choice to Lead the Irish. 
3.26 
overall: Without Battle, a 3-2 record thus Jar is good. The remainder ofthe schedule is f avorab!e. But the offense needs lo impro//e for a major bowl berth. 
adding up the numbers 
number of Notre Dame 
3 
turnovers this season 
30 
number of Notre Dame turnovers in 1999 
number of yards on open­
ing touchdown drive 
91 
3 
number of positions played by Givens -receiver, running 
back and special teams 
number of starting quarter­
3 
backs for Irish this season 
number of passing yards by Matt
100 
Lovecchio 
number of victories still 
7 
needed to qualify for a BCS 
bowl 
10 
number of consecutive Notre Dame wins in October 
INSIGHT 


The jokes kept coming. 
After practice on Thursday, Bob 
Davie sounded more like Jerry 
Seinfeld than Gerry Faust. 
The quips began aft.er a few mem­bers of the local media comment­ed on the cold. windy weather and chance of snow for Saturday's game. 
"All you guys are worried about is if there's going to be hot chocolate in that press box," Davie replied. 
Well, not exactly Seinfeld. Maybe Carrot Top? 
The act continued when an MSN BC reporter asked Davie if there was any significance in the 5-0 record during his tenure after bye weeks, the 17-2 record in the 1990s after bye weeks and the 44-9-3 overall record in Notre Dame history in games following an open date. 
"You paralyzed me with those sta­tistics," Davie commented. 
A personal favorite: the same MSNBC journalist told Davie he did not hear that Matt Lovecchio was starting until viewing ESPN2 on Wednesday night, several hours after the decision was announced. 
"What's the matter, did that Olympics thing take everyone out of the country or what?," Davie said. "These guys are scooping you on that stuff. We had The Observer announce that last week." 
In the middle of the Davie Comedy Three-Minutes, the fourth year head coach offered a quick, serious inter­lude. Julius Jones had suffered a ham­string injury during practice and was a "game-time decision." 
Here was a player who accounted for 118 of the team's 212 yards and touched the ball on 27 of the lrish's 42 rushes and completed passes against Michigan State and his coach was cracking one-liners like never before. 
Two days later, Davie's nonchalant report proved prophetical. Ile knew the offense against the Cardinal would include more players than the run­


ning back from Big Stone Gap, 
Virginia. 

But the diverse attack still provided 
mediocre results. 

The Irish wasted no time showing the nation that they do, indeed, have a major college playbook. Judging from the last two weeks, it could have been mistaken for a Pop Warner team's offensive game plan. 
On the first drive, with LoVecchio at the helm, the "handcuffs" were off, as the team likes to say. On the first play, Lovecchio completed a pass to tight end Dan O'Leary, who had only two catches i.n the previous four games. The Irish then lined up in a four-receiver set from their own 20 with LoVecchio rushing for a 10-yard gain. On the next play, aligned in an empty formation, receiver Javin Itunter ran a reverse for 17 yards. 
The less-predictable play calling continued with an option pitch from LoVecchio to Tony Fisher for a 7-yard gain. 
The 91-yard march downfield, scripted by the coaching staff before the game, ended after 11 plays and resulted in a 17-yard touchdown pass to David Givens. For 4:49, the Irish looked like the Kevin Hogers-led Syracuse offenses of the 1990s. 
For the next 52 minutes, Rogers yearned for Donovan McNabb and the rest of the Orangcmcn. 
Because although Lovecchio com­pleted 1 O-of-18 passes for 100 yards and two touchdowns and the Irish tried everything in the post-Gary Godsey era. the inept offense that has plagued Notre Dame all season con­tinued its woes against Stanford. 
Subtract the 91 yards on the first drive from the 266 total yards. Certainly not Florida Statc-esquc numbers. Or even 0-6 Arkansas State statistics !whose 292.8 yards per game as of last week rank 93rd in the nation, placing the Indians 13 spots in front of the Irish in total offense among lhc 114 Division 1-A teams.] 
On Saturday, Notre Dame had the ball within 58 vards of the end zone on half of their 14 possessions. /\nd five times, the Irish started their dri­ves in Stanford's territory. 
Yet they could manage only 13 
points and punted after three downs on iive possessions. 
"The first script went great," Davie said on Sunday regarding the first series. "Then Kevin (Hogcrs) mis­placed that second script and we got off rhythm. We have to realize what we can and cannot do. I think we have to be even more careful or where we head with this whole thing." 
Barring injury, the Irish seem to be set on keeping LoVecchio behind cen­ter for the remainder of the season. In his college debut, the New Jersey native, showed his multi-dimensional athletic talents. lie also seemed to know the offense well and provided the Irish with more options than his predecessor, Godsey. · 
The most impressive statistic for Lovecchio and the Irish'? Zero turnovers. Notre Dame now ranks first in the nation with zero fumbles and only three turnovers. 
The mistake-free, controlled run­first attack is where the Irish seem headed. 
"It is not as easy as it was a few years ago, lining up with two backs (and running]," Davie said. "But what we can do consistently is to keep those linebackers from running through, keep them from bringing the strong safety and hitting us in the backfield. 
"There is no one jumping up and down right now of where we are offensively. With that kind of' licld position and the kind of opportunities we had, that could have been a 37 or 38-point game easily." 
It wasn't. But as Davie likes to suy, "It is what it is." 
Translation: the Irish won tho game and kept their slim BCS bowl hopes alive. 
At Thursday's practice, alter getting "paralyzed" with the statistics regard­ing the performance after bye weeks, Davie managed to respond. 
"The only stat I'm worried about is being 1-0 after our lirst open date," Davie said. 
Mission accomplished. Bring on the Midshipmen. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those of the author nnd not necessaril!J those ofThe Obseruer. 
· Monday, October 9, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 

.... 

-
-
-
Givens stepped up. Freshman "[The blocked punt] was a play," he said. ''I'd like to play with his performance, saw the By KATIE McVOY quarterback Matt LoVecchio pretty easy decision," Davie said. running back and receiver .and game as an incentive to continue Assistant Sports Editor threw a 17-yard pass directly "We spent a lot of time on punt also some quarterback, as well improving his play. 
into the hands of the awaiting blocks [at practices this week.]" as returning kicks." "I think I could have run the Given the opportunity, David Givens to complete the longest The versatile Givens topped off Givens may continue to switch ball a little better at times," Givens will deliver. Notre Dame scoring drive of the the Notre Dame scoring drive up positions for the Irish. Givens said. "There is always 
After waiting patiently all sea­season. with an 8-yard touchdown "He's a warrior," offensive room to improve on some little son, the 6-foot-3 junior had his But that wasn't the play for reception from Lovecchio follow­coordinator Kevin Rogers said. things." · opportunity to shine this which most fans will remember ing the blocked punt. "All David's attitude is he wants A valuable asset to the Notre Saturday. Givens. With 58 seconds left in With that reception, Givens to help the team some way Dame offense on Saturday, 
"[Givens] has been outstanding the first half, Stanford lined up in became the first Irish wide somehow. He could be a great Givens saw himself only as a in the fact that he's been so front of kicker Mike Biselli to receiver with two touchdown tailback, linebacker or safety." part of the total team effort. patient," head coach Bob Davie punt. Givens was lined up above receptions in the same game In the second half Givens had "There was an idea that we said. "We've had no opportunity Stanford center Zack Quaccia. since Derrick Mayes in the 1996 two more carries for an addition­would open up our offense," he to allow [him] to be productive." "I watched how the center Orange Bowl. al four rushing yards. He fin­said. "Not necessarily me, but 
Saturday Givens showed that reacts after he snaps," Givens At the half. Givens led the ished the game with 57 total our receivers." his patience could pay off with said. "I saw the center step to offense in receiving with three offensive yards, two touchdown Givens was the first player out two touchdown receptions and a the right and ran full speed at receptions for 34 yards, two of receptions, and a blocked punt. of the tunnels on Saturday and blocked punt against Stanford. the kicking point." which were touchdown recep­"I think that it just worked out that may be his good luck 
During the opening Notre He blocked the punt and tions. that way today," Lovecchio said charm. Dame offensive drive, the Irish recovered the ball at the He was also a leader in rush­of Givens. "David [Givens] had a "Now it's superstition," he drove down the field covering 91 Stanford 10-yard line, setting up ing with two rushes for 19 yards. great game. He had that blocked said. "When [I'm the first player yards in 11 plays. With the for another Notre Dame touch­"I would like to be as versatile punt." out of the tunnels] I've had my offense on the 17-yard line, down. as possible as far as where I But Givens, although happy best games." ­

scoring summary & stats 
AP poll 
scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
scoring team record points .. Notre Dame 7 6 7 0 20 

summary team 0 0 7 7 14 
1st 1 Nebraska 2 Kansas State 6·0 1,640 team statistics ND SU 
t Nebraska li•D 1,771 Stanford 

ND -7:28 2 Vlrgiitla Tech 3 VfrglniaTei:11 . 5-D 1,621· 
Givens 17-yd. pass i3 Kansasstate -­
first downs 
16 18 

from Lovecchio ······., t•·· P!im~P•l<
4 Mianil (Fta.) ·. •·••··r4~r 1,507' .. 
rushes-yards 50·166 29-142 

Setta kick, 7·0 . · ..icf .. ·• on1:ottate l,
5 Clemson 6-D 1,49'1 

... 6 ·.··· Ml~mt(Fla.} 1,205.
passing-yards 100
6 Ohio Slate 5-D 1.sn····. 242 
.. 1,357 comp-att-int 10-18-0 19-43·1 

2nd 7 flotida State -1 1,(168 8 Oklahoma 
5-ll 1,336 .. · return yards 88 69 
7 Florida Stale 5-1 

· a Oldahoina ·O '1,062
ND -:27 
-1 1;032
9 Oregon .4•1 1,1~~ punts-yards 9-337 8-280 
Givens S•yd. pass 10 Florida. <&-1 · 1,06(>-...··· . fumbles-Lost 1-0 1-1 

1, ,lo;f. •t• . ···.· a·
from Lovecchio 

. ,}')1i\{ ra· ·• ·•f
11 Waslllngton · ·•4;1 •··· ··:1 JJ~5;1 t •" penalties-yards 3-21 1-10 
Setta kick blocked 

.... 1t ~f 740,

12 rcu·· · .s;,I) 9&2-. 
· time ofpossession 33:31 26:29 

13-0 13 G"~rUli ··· -1 67!( ­
13 UCLA C4•1 862 X • 
individual statistics 

3rd 14 MlasJuippl Stale -1 67-3 ...
14 Georgia 4-1 785 
passing
11i Mississippi Stale . 4-1 776, .·/.. 

SU -12:15 15 UCLA .·• .:J:.1 643
16 •· so: Ml11a1nipp1 · 
, ·· .· .&as:·\.
16 So. Mississippi 
.. 4-1 725'.,;tii-(·,.·• ND -Lovecchio 10-18-D SU -Lewis 19-43-1 
Pitts 13-yd. pass 

from Lewis 11 • ·a11 ·17 .NoithWlistern . · ····•·•::sit 632·· rushing 
r·,ls.\ r ilitefo l .. ':3:1.··f.\~plI:••·
Biselli kick, 13-718 Michigan ,\,.4-2-614· ND -Fisher 9-47, Lovecchio 13-36, Jones 13-29, Givens 5-23, 
.·•.;•5if. .,

19 · · AUbUrll
19 Auburn 5;1 457·· 
ND -2:25
Hunter 1·23, Howard 3-21, Gelherall 1-7, Murray 1-1 

20 Oregon State 4•1 · 211
2D NOTRE DAME 3-2 322 
Jones 7•yd. runSU. Allen 8-94, Moore 5-23, Carter 10-19, Lewis 6·6 

21 Purdue . 4-2 191
21 Purdue 4•2 315 

Setta kick, 20-7
receiving 
... 4-1 189

22 Ariwna
22 Arizona 4-1 257·· 
ND -Givens 3·34, O'Leary 3·26, Jones 1-24, Johnson 1-12, 

23 JeJat•i .... .'>:H 155·
23 Oreg011 State .4,t 261, 
. )5•1 .• 12f\.
Murray 1-6, Getherall 1·(-2) 

4th 24 so~h Caronna
24 South Carollna 5-1• 239 SU -Pitts 8-100, Pierce 4-30, Naatjes 2-33, Mccullum 1-28, 

25 MIHIUippi 4°1 115.,:c'·
25 Texas ·a.i 12,4 
SU -1:07Moore 1·23, Bowman 1·20, Allen 1-4, Carter 1-4 Naatjes 14•yd. pass
leading tacklers from Lewis other teams receiving Votes: NOTRE DAME 111, ....

other teams receiving votes: N.C. State 112~.. 
ND -WIiiiams 7, Legree 7, Denman 7, Weaver 6, Israel 5, 

Biselli kick, 20-14 Arizona st~I• 94, Colorado State 81, use so, N.C, State
Mlnlulppi 92, Al'lzona State 53, USC 34, Western 

60, Tennessee. 29, Wes.tem ..ritlchlgan 29, Arkansas ?4, ·
Michigan 18,Colorado State 15., Minnesota 10, Driver 5, Boiman 5 su -Williams 9, Fernandez 7, Wire 7. Focht 6, Friedrichs 6, 

Minnes,t~~(lowa Stalff ~,g1~sburgh 22.
Tennessee .10, Iowa State 8,.f'Jtts.b.iltgh 6, r.teQtphlsJ.-, 
Howard 5 
O
THE

--Notre Dame vs. Stanford BSERVER Monday, October 9, 2000 
-The Irish played their fourth straight game decided by a touchdown or less. Special teams and lurnov11rs were 
a.gain deciding factors, as David Givens blocked a punt, Anthony Weaver recovered a

-
fumble and Brock Williams intercepted a pass. The offense started off strong behind fresh­man M~1tt LuVecchio, but fat­

-lcred late in the game. The defense allowed Stanford to 
gain 384 yards of total offense. It was good enough for a win, one that ldt Cardinal quarter­back Chris Lewis singing the Notre Dame fight song. "I was humming it to myself on the 

-
sid11line," Lewis said. MEG KROENER/The Observer 
Four Notre Dame defenders team together to tackle Stanford quarterback Chris Lewis. Senior free safety Tony Driver (25) and senior linebacker Anthony Denman (39) are among those getting in on the action. 
QUARTERBACK: TAKE THREE 

-
-
..... 





T H 
~ne E R 
Monday, October 9, 2000 page 11 
Parody provides a fresh and funny take on the Bard 
Photo courtesy of ND Photo Serivce 

J.J. Area (Romeo) and Kathy Koch (Constance) share a heated moment on stage. 
~ AcoustiCafe, LaFortune Student Center, 9 p.m. 
-
~ Maria Stablein, piano 119 O'Shaughnessy //all, 7 ~ Writing Center Workshop, 
concert, Annenburg p.m. 
Auditorium, The Snite ~ Rumba Lessons, $4 per • 
Museum, 2 p.m. lesson or $30 per semester, 301 Rockne Building. 7 p. m. 

By LAURA BOST Scene \X'ricer 
Notre Dame Film. Television and Theatre opened its 2000­2001 mainstagc season on Oct. 4 with playwright Ann MacUonald 's ''Goodnight Desdemona (Good \1orning Juliet)." The performance shook Washington Hall with laughter as a witty script com­bined Shakespearean drama with modern slapstick comedy. 
William Shakespeare's "Othello" and "Romeo and Juliet" were transformed into parodies addressing everything from women's rights to homo-· sexualitv. From a cross-dress­ing Horneo and Juliet to a bloodthirsty Desdemona, this reflection on Shakespeare was a far cry from any interpreta­tion raised in an English lec­ture. 
The play weaves the story of a disgruntled assistant profes­sor, Constance Ledbelly, on her quest to prove "Othello" and "Romeo and Juliet" were origi­nally comedies disrupted by unfortunate endings. Constance 
is transported by  an  act of  
alchemy  into  the  
Shakespearean  plays.  

Astonished by her sudden entrance· into the plays, Constance declarns students had either "spiked her Coors Light" or she was definitely "on an acid trip." 
She immerses herself in the script revealing a Desdemona obsessed with war and a llomeo and Juliet who live in disgust of one another. Constance succeeds in prevent­ing Romeo and Juliet's suicide and Othello's murder of Desdemona. 
The play was full of skilled sword fights, designed by Tony Lawton, and comic bedroom scenes between dynamic char-


Monday 
~ "Trust,,, directed by Hal Hartley, $2 admission, Annenburg Auditorium, The · Snite Museum, 7 p. m. 
acters. Cast member Liz Cenova said, "The cast real­ly had intense energy and bonded working on the swordplay." 
The elaborate costuming heightened the appeal of these well-rehearsed scenes designed by Hichard Donnelly. Creative footwear and decorous hats comple­mentP.d the sparkling green, gold and silver tights and ornamented shirts. Donnelly's design of Juliet's lacy off-white dressing gown and Desdemona's striking black and red dress enhanced the characters' stage presence. "The cos­tuming really empowered me as an actress," said Conova. 
Professor Wendv Aarons of the Notre Dame Theatre Department made her direc­torial debut with a dynamic cast of five actors. Cenova stat­
ed, "Wendy provided a great balance between directing and allowing us artistic free­dom." In preparation for these per­formances, the dedicated cast rehearsed over 30 hours a week. These five versatile · actors por­trayed 16 characters throughout the play. 
Saint Mary's junior, • Liz Cenova, por­trayed Desdemona as a strong, sassy and sexy woman 


whose presence dominated the stage. Cenova's other roles included Ramona and Mercutio. Theatre major Kathy Koch, a Welsh Hall senior, humored the audience with her portrayal of Constance's devel­opment· from a passive profes­sor to Juliet's liberated lesbian lover. Katie -Sise, a senior the­atre major, gave an impressive performance of a suicidal, sex­crazed Juliet. 
Mark Scheibrneir. a Stanford Hall freshman, delivered a riv­eting performance of Othello and a hysterical presentation of Juliet's well-endowed nurse. He also undertook the role of Tybalt and Claude Night. Senior theatre major JJ Area, had the audience doubled over in laughter, with his depiction of a whining, cross-dressing Romeo. Area also played an embittered Iago and the ghost. 
This talented cast had intense energy on the stage and articu­lately delivered their lines throughout t~e performance. 

They even managed to stay in perfect character despite the roar of the audience's laughter. The play also included the melodious singing efforts of Liz .Cenova and Katie Sise in a humorous rendition of Desree's "Kissing You" from Leonardo DiCaprio and Clare Dane's movie, "Romeo and Juliet." All cast members joined in ·song and entertaining Latin dance at the finale of the play. 
The attractive setting, designed by Bruce Auerbach, was flanked with two opposing sets of off-white stairs joined by an ivy-wrapped balcony. Kevin Dreyer designed the pyrotech­nics and lighting for the play. Todd Borough designed the eerie voice of the ghost and other sound effects. 
After watching this excep­tional performance, audiences went home with a hearty laugh and a radical new perspective of the epic Shakespearean tragedies. 
Friday 

IS'unday
Saturday 

~ Ramiro Rodriguez Exhibition, sponsored by the Institute for Latino Studies, 230 McKenna Hall 
Have a fun and safe fall break! 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 9, 2000 
Rude Awakening for Irish 
The Irish didn't paint a survival for an offense that masterpiece Saturday. but went into the Stanford they're getting closer. game ranked 113th in 
"We're still a work in passing offense, averaging prog-98.5 yards per game. and ress on 106th in total offense at off-249.75 yards per game. ense," Despite the quick start, said the Irish ended the game coach with only 100 yards pass­Bob ing and 266 total. leading Davie junior wide receiver David after Givens to say: "We have a Notre lot of room to improve. we Dame's made a lot of mistakes this 20-14 game.

. 
win "Basically. when we had over no mistakes (like on the Stan­first driveI. we were just ford. driving down the field, no 

They 
did 
progress from two weeks 
before at Michigan State 
when Julius Jones straight 
up the middle was the sta­
ple of a light offensive diet. 
Five widcouts, empty backfields. and handolTs to wide receivers all charac­terized Notre Dame's open­ing possession, which went 91 yards on 11 plays and ended in a David Givens touchdown. 
Throw in the fact that the quarterback running the assault was a freshman making his first start. and yeah, you can start to see how this offense has pro­gressed from its last game. 
Davie pointed to the unit's likely best asset, say­ing: "The one thing we did not do ... we did not turn the football over again today." 
The Irish have only turned the ball over three times in five games, tying them for first in the coun­try in turnovers lost. 
But this unusual ability to lake care of the ball hasn't just been a good looking stat, a sidebar that a foot­ball purist will point to as something that enhances a well-functioning attack. 
Rather, hanging onto the ball has been necessary for problem." 
The freshman quarter­back, Matt Lovecchio, seemed to have the same sort of take on the situa­tion. ls it cool to have your parents in Notre Dame Stadium and friends back home watching you become just the fourth Irish freshman since 1952 to start at quarterback? 
"Yeah, that's cool. but I just have to take this all in stride. It's all about win­ning games right now," the freshman said. 
Bob Davie will tell you the same thing. True, a lot of problems still have to be figured out, and yes, this last game probably won't cause anyone to go out and write an ode to Notre Dame football. 
"But the bottom line is we won the football game 20-14," Davie asserts. 
That they did, moving their record to 3-2. However, if the Irish were impressed with their win, all Notre Dame fans might be a little scared. 
Or at least they should be. 
Putting up less than 300 yards of offense on a con­sistent basis won't usually lead to wins. 
Allowing the other team's offense to move the 
way they did at the end of 
the game, covering 90 
vards in less than two min­
~tes, was, in Davie's 
words."... a little bit 
embarassing." 
All this would spell "Rude Awakening" for the Irish if they think Saturday's performance is all it takes to win, the best they can do. 
But it's clear both the 
coaches and players know 
what lies ahead of them. 
''It was a big win. but we didn't play as well as we're capable of," Davie said. 
"As we move forward, I think there is even more things we can do with Uavid [Givens]." 
Talking about only one player. the coach might as well hav~.been speaking about the entire team. 
Everyone's happy they won this week, but no one's making the mistake of thinking they've tapped all their ability yet. 
That's still in the future.· 
As for now. the defense already knows what works, and except for a couple of big plays and that one long drive, they've played better than most people expected. 
Except, of course, what they themselves expected. 
The outline of an explo­sive offense has been drawn. The players will now start to fill in that sketch, making it come to life with opposing defenses as a backdrop. For the Irish. hopefully this gets going at Navy. 
"I think that {first} drive is the start of the rest of our season," Givens said. 
If he's right, a rude awakening will be waiting for any team that doesn't take Notre Dame seriously. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily shared by The Observer. 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish win 9 of 11 events at Notre Dame Relays 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Sports Writ~r 
The men's swim team is hoping that their dominating effort at last Friday's Notre Dame Relays that saw them win 9 of 11 events en route to first place in the meet will be a trend for the rest of the season. The team also saw a record broken as the 400­yard medley relay team of Brian Skorncy. Dan Szilier, Ryan Verlin and Matt Grunewald set a meet record of 
3:33.27 in the evPnt. 
The Notre Dame Relays, the first meet of the season. served as an opportunity for the 1999-2000 Big East Champion men's swimmers to gauge where adjustments need to be made before the team's first dual meet against Big East rival Virginia Tech on Oct.19. The meet also served as an opportunity for the 12 fresh­men swimmers to experience their first collegiate meet. 
. "This was a good meet to gauge where we are fitness-wise." said senior swimmer Grant Burrall. "It was a great meet for us all to com­pete together and get warmed up for the rest of the season. It's also a good opportunity for the freshmen to get used to the seeting of a collegiate meet." 
Burrall, who was part of the first­place 400-yard butterfly, 800-yard freestyle and 400-yard breaststroke relays said the team was encouraged with last Friday's effort, especially since the team lost key seniors like Ray Fitzpatrick to graduation. 
"We're where we thought we would be but we also see that there is room for everyone to get faster," said Burrall. "It was encouraging and we were pleased with the results but we need to continue to improve to be where we want to be at the end of the season 
"As far as looking ahead to other meets this season, we know that there is a lot of work to be done, especially since we will be facing stiffer competition." 
For senior Russell Preston -who 

studied abroad last year -the meet 
was his first competition in over two 
years. Preston competed in the 200­
yard freestyle relay. 
''I've been a way from the sport for so long and haven't practiced in over a year and a half but it was good to be back on the block racing again. You realize how much you miss it when you are away rrom the sport. My performance in this meet was a strong indication that evC1rything is going well." said Preston. "l was pleased with my effort and so were the coaches. Overall. we have a young team with so many freshmen and sophomorC1s but it was a positive result to have them turning in the resulL-, they did at the meet." 
/\!though the competition of the H.elays is not as dilTicult as in other meets the Irish will compete in this season. the team swam aggressively. However. the team's aggressive approach kept them from sweeping the meet after being disqualified in two relays for starting before the gun. 
"All of the guys were really ready to get out there and race," said Preston. "The coaches thought we were almost too aggressive because we jumped the gun on two of the races." 
Despite nerves, freshman T.J. DeFrank, also a part of the first-place 200-yard freestyle relay team, put in a strong effort in his first collegiate meet. 
"It was a good first meet even though I was pretty nervous," said DeFrank. "This was the only event I swam in as one of the "A" team relays and we won. My split was pretty good so I was pleased with that." 
DeFrank added that he thought the meet was a good way to ease into the collegiate swimming experience before competiing in duel meets. 
"The transition to swimming at the college level has been tough because everyone is of such a high caliber," said DeFrank. "Also, there is tough competition everywhere you go and someone always seems to be better than you." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ac che Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Dad needs 2 tix to Stanford game!  94 Mitsubishi Galan!  Katie like em bad...  TLF -.dude, do you skateboard?  
LOST & FOUND  Ckrosey@mindspring.com  WANTED  Black/Sunroof/195K $2350  PERKY!!!!!  chrissy poo -i was going to put a  
2 ND/USC Tix + Airfare  Call (219) 247-1983  movie quote in here for you, but  
LOST: CAMERA IN BLACK CASE  GOTO alumnind edu/-ndc_satc  WILL BUY USED CARS CALL 272­ Ratter  they're all too vulgar!  
IN THE HAMMES BOOKSTORE  4776.  ATTN: FACULTY & STAFF  
- ON MONDAY, 9/25, PLEASE CALL BARBARA HUTSON AT  FOR SALE, FOOTBALL TICKETS, ALL GAMES E272-7233  Shift Mgr University Park Mall  Great house for sale by owner, 1 mile north of campus in "Femwood  Tweeking the . #@·$1&!!!!!  agi: how was lenny? juwanna watch it sometime?  
1·732-257-0881  Auntie Anne's Pretzels up to $8,  at Cleveland."  lnterhall football is the joy of my life  
CALL COLLECT  NEED: 4 Stanford tickets for family  20-30 hrs, cart Pat or Kathy 219­ Days 243-6040 ext. 231.  what does that mean?  
Call John, 4-2795.  271-8740  Will e-mail amenities.  Wednesday nights just aren't the  how am i supposed to  
FOUND!!  dhickey@carletoninc.com  same this year  interpret that?  
Fossil Steel watch round outside of  Selling Florida fart break package  Tutoring needed in  
Rolf's Center  Please call 631­ w/ Navy game tix.  Win2000/Network-MCSE.  Videotape your next on or off cam- Without Dylan, Donna, David, and  quit playing games with my heart.  
3825  Call Kaileen 243-9462.  Please call 277-4443.  pus party!  Val all up in my hair.  
www.icecoldvideo com  missing a whiteboard?  
HELP! I need 2 Stanford tickets!  Wanted: Joyce South Parking Pass  The Peach Pit has closed down..  
TICKETS WANTED NO FOOTBALL TKTS 289-9280  Call Kate at 4-3697 FOR RENT  for Air Force game. Call Jake at 634-0960 FOR SALE  PERSONAL Quality Copies, QuicklyI we·re open early, late & weekends  Which just brings about a really huge tear. whatever.  come play dirty $ this saturday to buy it back whomp, whomp, waaaahhhhhh  
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  THE COPY SHOP  ever since you've been hanging  
SELLING  AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS  SPRING BREAK 2001 . Jamaica,  LaFortune Student Center  hey ck· DUH  'round ... i"ve been trying to figure  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  http://mmrnrentals homepage.com/  Cancun, Barbados, More. Hiring  Phoe 631 -COPY  out what i can say to you  .  
251-1570  email: mmmrentais@aol.com  Campus Reps -2 Free Trips! Free  i sit two stories above the street,  
232-2595  Meals-Book by 1113. Call 1-800­ Quality Copies, Quickly'  hey shady . . baby i got your money  
VICTORY TKTS  426-7710 or sunsplashtours com.  it's awful quiet here since rove fell  
BUY'SELL 'TRADE NO FOOTBALL  That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available  #1 Spring Break 2001 NCancun,  Music, is for pee-po  asleep,  the day our kids play this at freshman o. we'll know to' sho' it  
232-0964  for footbalVparenl wknds. 5 Rooms  Mazatlan, acapulco, Jamaica,  I'm gonna k1lr Jose for putting that  there's life down below me though.  was one helluva idea  
www.victorylickets.com  with private baths, $80-$115.  Florida & S.Padre. Reliable TWA  song in my head.  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  flights. Best Prices Earn $$$ or  kids are walking home from school  see y'all saturday  
BUY/SELL NO TICKETS  Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­ FREE trips-call for details!  Only 9 days until Vegas baby!  
273-3911  9487.  1 800 SURFS.UP www.studentex­ good song, manda panda.  but i got dibs on the desk chair  
press.com  I can't believe it's almost here.  
NO FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  3, 4 & 5-bedroorn alumni-owned  what kind of crazy prof assigns  Brownie night?  
AM -232-2378  homes for rent  1992 CHEVY LUMINA, GREAT  But there's still 3 papers until then..  FOUR papers for midterm week?!  I haven't been there in a long time.  
PM. -288-2726  Please  CONDITION. $3,500; 272-4776  
call Jason  Katie D is the queen of production  move out, girlfriend.  a present?  
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  @ 240-0322  '93 Olds Ciera, 87k, showroom con- no one wants you here.  for me?  
AM. -232-2378  forhomesc  dition (no rust), needs nothing,  Backpage features by freshmen...  you shouldn't have!  
P M · 288-2726  lose to campus  $3600/obo. 272-8333.  gotta love the O  mbplb -you define  oh.... you didn't...  
.,..  


page 13

Monday, October 9, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
We invite Notre Dame students to join us 
Tuesday,October10,2000 
7:00 PM -9:00 PM DeBartolo Hall, Room 125 
Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer. 
All majors welcome 
ml.com/careers be bullish ~MerrillLynch 
<'2000 Men1II Lynd! A Co., Inc. 
page 14 

The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 9, 2000 
AMERICAN LEAGUE DIVISION SERIES 
Yankees take series behind strong re_Iief 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND. Calif. 
Andy Pettitte really didn't think he would rnmd salvation on Sunday. 
The New York Yankees' 19­game winner l'f'lt strong despite pitching on three days· rest. lie said his control was outstanding and that he made most of the pitches he wantrid to make. 
Trouble was. the Oakland Athletics kept hitting them. 
It took 5 1-3 innings of out­standing scoreless relief pitching for the Yankees to survive their division series and move on to face Seattle in the AL Championship Series. 
•·1 felt great. I felt like I was making a lot of good pitches." Pettitte said. "I thought 1 was going to cruise out of there, but it didn't happen. It turned out I was glad to get out of there betause [the Athletics) wore me out. 
"I thought I was pretty sharp. (but) the bullpen saved me." 
It was just over a month ago when George Steinbrenner, tired of his bullpen's second­half struggles, told reliever Jeff Nelson in particular ­and New York's entire bullpen in general -to "put up or shut up." 
Consider the challenge met. New York beat Oakland 7-5 in the decisive Game 5, largely thanks to the strength of its pen. 
Four relievers -including a cameo by Game 3 starter Orlando Hernandez -held the Athletics' high-powered offense to three hits and no 
runs after  Pettitte  was  
chased.  
Both  Mike  Stanton  and  

Nelson -two critical cogs in New York's consecutive World Series championship teams -were in top form when it mattered most. 
"In a Game 5, there are no roles," Nelson said. "Me and Mike. we've got to be ready to come out in any inning. You've got to pull out all the stops in a situation like this." 
Pettitte. who pitched mas­terfully in beating the A's in Game 2. got through just 3 2­3 innings Sunday while pitch­ing on three days' rest. The 19-game winner was shaky in every inning, allowing 10 hits and five rt.ms while walking two. 
But New York manager Joe Torre was reluctant to go to the 'pen because or its strug­gles in the season's second half, particularly during a two-week sLretch in August when the Yankees· late-sea­son slide began. 
In fact. except for three innings late in Oakland·s 11-1 victory in Game 4, Torre had used just six pitchers ­starters Roger Clemens. Pettitt~ and Hernandez along with relievers Stanton, Nelson and closer Mariano Rivera ­in the entire series. 
"I don't think the bullpen was ever out of line," Stanton said. "I don't know where all this talk came from about Joe losing confidence in us. I don't think Joe has ever lost confidence in us." 
Torre stuck with Pettitte until the fourth inning. when the A's scored two runs. The call came in for Stanton. 
After Stanton pitched out of the jam. he retired the side in order in the fifth and got two outs in the sixth before being lifted for Nelson, who struck out Olmedo Saenz to end the inning. 
Nelson pitched the seventh before Hernandez, who threw 130 pitches in his Game 3 start Friday, struck out Ben Grieve to start the eighth but gave up a double to Matt Stairs. 
Enter Rivera, the Yankees' feared closer who has strug­gled at times this year. He struck out Terrence Long and then forced three easy fly balls and a foul pop by Eric Chavez that ended it. 
"The bullpen just came through in every situation that we needed them," Bernie Williams said. "They've been criticized so much, so it was great to see them do what they did tonight." 


Soccer 
continued from page 20 
men speedster Amy Warner. the Irish lost senior co-captain Kelly Lindsey with an undeter­mined injury late in the first half. 
Though Notre Dame strug­gled mightily to cage the Wildcats, a w_in on Friday over the Boyas of Georgetown on Friday could not have been easier. After downing the lloyas 10-0 last season, the Irish expected a much better effort from what they thought was a much improved Hoya team. 
How much improved the Hoyas are remains in doubt as the Irish drubbed them 8-0 in a game that was over from the start. Senior forward Meotis Erikson scored her third career hat-trick -her first since her freshman year -to lead the onslaught, while Makinen added to her legend with a goal and three assists. 

The Irish were able to run circles around the bewildered Hoyas. using their consider­able speed advantage as an asset. Freshman Amada Guertin. one of the squad's fastest, tallied twice while fel­low speed merchant Ali Lovelace added a goal of her own. 
The Irish return home for a Friday the 13th match up with the Golden Eagles of Boston College later this week. For a week anyway, Notre Dame can catch its breath. 

Expectant mother of twins with one 
J

year old child seeks child care " assistance in Granger 
Good salary, Monday-Friday call Jasmin 277-5106 

COLONY PLAZA RESORT HOTEL ORLANDO 

~
.~~.
Ok..',,~ 
. -•v'<,~ 
$55.00+ Tax (1 -4 Persons) 
1-800-821-0136 Reservations 
LOCATED JllST MINUTES FROM THE UTRUS BOWL, 
Deluxe kitchenette J()()n1s, large S\\'imming pool, children's wadin~ pool, fitness room, cable tv with HDO, rcstauranl and lounge on property and fl"CC perking. 
Not v:ilid ~1th my olh,,-1.)ill«)utlts. Vc1liJ (Jct 11 -1~. 2000. 
11100 W. Colonial nrive Orlando West/Ocoee, FL 34 7 61 

Considering the 
London Program? 
Remember you can apply via the web. 
Use our application at wvvw.nd.edu/-londonpr 
Monday, October 9, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN 's SOCCER 
Saint Mary's drops tough match to Kalamazoo, 16-0 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles soccer team tuok a 16-0 roughing Saturday from Kalamazoo. 
But even tougher to stomach for the Helles was Kalamazoo's starting lineup, which played the entire game dpspite a decisive score of 6-0 at the half. 
The game raises the question of whether a winning team should run up the score. According to Jason Milligan, Belles head coach, the application of the tactic depends on the coach. 
"/\s far as leaving in starters, a lot of' coaches have different philosophies," Milligan said. "Some coaches believe in scoring as many goals as possible." 
The winner after the double round­robin play in the MIAA receives a bye tu the NCAA Division III tournament. If two teams have the same number of points at the end of round-robin play, the tie­breaker is goal differential. Thus, the roarhes have an incentive to leave their starters in. 
"DePauw probably could have scored more goals on us," Milligan said of the 7-0 loss earlier in the season. "They moved their players around, though. It's a differ­ent philosophy." 
The Belles were out-shot 36-1. Emily Durham was in goal for the Hornets. while Laura Metzger was in goal for the Belles. 
"We did not play well," Milligan said. "But you put things behind you and move on." 
!\folly Danner led the Hornets with three goals and two assists. Lydia Raburn also had a hat trick and one assist. Alexis Bowman had two goals and two assists, while Liza Brereton had two goals. Jessica Geiger, Heather White, Kim Hartman, Katie Tripi and Jocc Taylor all had goab. 
Lesley Williams, Jessica Mueller, Megan llolmes, and Heather Pedersen all had assists for the Hornets. . 
The Belles were crippled by the loss of sweepers Alissa Brasseur and Jessica Klink, both sidelined with injuries earlier in the season. Brasseur is out for the sea­son after the discovery of a pinched nerve in her leg, while Klink is sidelined until the conclusion of fall break after tearing muscles .in her left quadricep. 
"We've had a lot of injuries," Belles head coach Jasun Milligan said. 
The Belles fall to 2-8-1 and 2-5-1 over­all entering Tuesday's game against Olivet. 



While TIAA-CREF invests for the long term, it's nice to see performance 
TENNIS 

Four Irish athletes travel to Palo Alto 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 
While the rest of the Irish women's tennis team had the weekend off, Katie Cunha and Kimberly Guy traveled out to Palo Alto, Calif., to compete in the World Tennis Team National Collegiate Championships with Javier Taborga and Aaron Talarico from the men's team. 
The group of four put on a good showing by finishing sixth in a pool of 16 teams that included some of the top players in the nation. 
"We played well throughout the entire tournament." said sophomore Katie Cunha. "It was really fun, it was one of the best experiences that I have had in college tennis." 
The tournament is set up with four brackets of four teams. The teams are matched up against those in their bracket and the top two advance on to the placing tournament. Each match is composed of men's and women's doubles. men's and women's singles, and mixed doubles. The scores from each game are then added up to determine the overall win­ner. 
With one of the toughest draws h1 the tournament Notre Dame was placed in the bracket with Stanford, Tulsa, and Texas A&M. The Irish opened up with a chal­lenging match against Texas A&M, who won the tourna­ment last year. In spite of beginning jitters Cunha and Guy played well in their first doubles match and won 6-5. 
"It was a little intimi~ating at first, but by the end we were playing really weil," said Cunha. 
After winning in the men's singles game 6-4, Javier Taborga and Aaron Talarico stayed strong and defeated A&M's Hubbel and Skube 6­

2. Both men's wins helped give the Irish a 28-24 advan­tage. 
Cunha and Guy lead off the next match with a close 6-5 victory over Stanford's women. ·That was all for the Irish, though as they pro­ceeded to lose in men's sin­gles and doubles and went down to the eventual champi­ons 27-21. 
Needing a win to advance Notre Dame pulled out a_ close victory over Tulsa on Saturday. It came down to a 1-0 tie breaker win by Cunha and Taborga that finally gave the Irish the 25-24 win and moved them into the placing matches. 
With the exhausting win over Tulsa, Notre Dame fin­ished second to Stanford in its bracket with a 2-1 mark and advanced to the fifth­place match against Mississippi State. 
The No. 14 ranked duo of Cunha and Guy came out and won the first" match 6-5, but it wouldn't prove to be enough as the Bulldogs won each of the last four sets to defeat the Irish 29-21. 
"We played well in doubles against MSU," said Cunha, "after the Tulsa match I think we were a little tired but I won't take anything ayvay from them [Mississippi State] because they were an awe­some team." 
Next week· the Irish will head out to Bolder, Col., for the Colorado Invitational as they take on Colorado, Colorado State and New Mexico.· 
The Irish look to improve on their already strong start this season by playing well against those teams from the West. 
"We don't know much about these teams," said Cunha, "we are just going t_o go out and play some ball." 
like this. 
TIAA-CREF has delivered impressive results like these by combining two disciplined investment strategies. 
In our CREF Growth Account, one of many CREF vari­able annuities, we combine active management with enhanced indexing. With two strategies, we have two ways to seek out performance opportunities­helping to make your investments work twice as hard. 
This approach also allows

EXPENSE RATIO 
us to adapt our investments  
CREF GROWTH  INDUSTRY  to d1fferent market  
ACCOUNT  AVERAGE  conditions, which is  
0.32"°1  2.09% 2  especially important during  
volatile economic times.  


Combine this team approach with our low expenses and you'll see how TIAA-CREF stands apart from the competition. Call and find out how Tl.~A-CREF can work for you today and tomorrow 
Ensuring the future 
1.800.842.2776 
for those who shape ifM 
w w w. ti aa-cref. org 
~ 

For more complete information on our securities products, please cal/ 1.800 842.2733, e~t. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read th:m carefully before you invest. 1. TIAA-CREF expenses reflect the waiver of aportion of the Funds investment management fees, guarant~~d u;~til July 1 2003 2 Sourc"· Morningstar Inc 6/30/00 tracking 939 average large-cap growth annuity funds. 3 Due to current market ,ol~t,lity, cur s;curiti~s pr~duct/pertormance today may be.less than shown above. The investment results shown for CREF Growth variable ~nnu1ty reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the pnn~1pal iou have invested Nill f(uctuate, 50 the shares vou own may be more or less than their original price upon redempt1011. • TIAA-CREF lnd1v1dudl and lnst1tut1onal Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. , Teachers Personal lnvest~rs Services, _Inc. distributes the P~rsonal Annu1t1es variable annuity component mutual funds and tuition savings agreements • TIAA and I IAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., N_e N York, NY, 1~sue insurance and annuities. , TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may ose 
value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
..----------------------------~---­
-~ -~ ----------­

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 6, 2000 

Interhall 
continued from page 20 
ter effort." 
Welsh ends the regular sea­son with a perfect 6-0 record, but the team knows that in the playoffs, regular season records no longer matter. "We're starting over at 0-0. Our record means nothing. In the playoffs it is one and out," said Bak. 
Cavanaugh 19, Pasquerllla East 0 
The interhall football game played on lhe Stepan fields at 9 p.m. Thursday was as sweet as it was short for the Cavanaugh Chaos. 
A lopsided score of 19-0 brought the contest to an early finish, as Cavanaugh defeated the Pasqucrilla East. The Pyro offense, led by sophomore quarterback Lindsay Terifay, was stined by the Chaos defensive line, which posted its fourth shutout of the season. Freshman 
Bridget Cerne contributed to this effort with two inter­ceptions in the first half'. 
Junior receiver Mandy Heimer, who scored the final touchdown of the game off a pass from Cavanaugh quar­terback Lynn Olzowy, attrib­uted her team's success to this strongpoint. 
''I've got to give credit to the derense," she said, 
"They've been solid all year, and we've had great field position because of them." 
The PE defense was also strong. The squad had key plays from senior captain Gina Locklar and classmate Brita McCullough. McCullough was pleased with her team's play. "Cavan.:...igh's a good team," said McCullough, "l think we played well tonight." 
Despite their defensive efforts. the Pyros could not stop the passing game of the Chaos. Olzowy, a junior, found Melissa Marcotte in the endzone in the first half, and then Megan Land and Reimer there in the second half. Olzowy further extended the Chaos lead when she threw for the extra point after the second touchdown. 
PE was not discouraged by this loss, and faces their last few regular season games with confidence. "We're just going to put this game behind us." McCullough said. 
Lewis 13, Pangborn 0 
The Lewis llall football team successfully kept their post-season hopes alive as they shutout the women of Pangborn last Thursday night. The win put the Chicks at 2-3 on the season, edging them closer to clinc!Jing a berth in the playoffs. 
Lewis' strategy for the night was simple: "Shut them down on defense and execute on offense," said captain Catherine Harcourt. 
"Going into the game we were really confident." Harcourt added, "we knew we had to win." After a scoreless first half. an inter­ception by Harcourt gave the Chicks offense possession at the Pangborn 30-yard line. Two plays later, freshmen quarterback. Erin Nasrallah, threw a touchdown pass to put her team up by 6 points. 
Nasrallah added to their lead late in the game with a 45 yard run off of a quarter­back draw. Of Nasrallah's strong performance, Harcourt praised, "She's got a lot of potential." 
At 0-4 entering Thursday's game, Pangborn knew that the playoffs were out of reach. "We were trying to play our best and trying to get a win," said Pangborn co­captain Erin Piroutek. She remained positive about their achievements, "lt was our strongest defensive effort this year." 
With a new defensive strat­egy, the Phoxes took more risks, trying to force turnovers and blitzing more often. Junior Libby Cunningham had an intercep­tion for the game and Piroutek, playing middle line­backer, continued her solid performance with two sacks. 
Lewis needed to win on Sunday to keep their season from coming to a close while Pangborn attempted toget their first win or the year. 

NATIONAL LEAGUE DIVtSION SERIES 
Jones allows 1 hit in 4-1 series clincher 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK 
Bobby J. Jones made a name 
for himself' and carved ouL a 
place in postseason lore. 

Known as much for being one or two Bobby Joneses on the Mets as for his own pitch­ing, Jones Lhrew the sixth complete game onc-hittnr in postscason history as the Mets eliminated the Giants with a 4­0 win in Garn!' 4 of their NL Division Series on Sunday. 
Left off last year's playoff 
roster and sent to the minors 
in June, Jones pitched the first 
one-hit shutout in the postsea-• 
son since Boston's .Jim 
Lonborg In the 1967 World 
Series against St. Louis. 

"At that time I was not help­
ing the ballclub," Jones said of 
his two-week trip to Triple-A 
Norfolk. "After experiencing 
the playoffs last year and not 
being a part of' it, I wanted to 
come back in the best shape 
and have a groat year. The 
way T pitched was obviously 
not the way I was capable of 
throwing." 

Jones limited the Giants to a clean, fifth-inning double by Jeff Kent as the wild-card Mets wun the final three games of' the series to avoid a cross­counLry trip and a decisive Game 5 in San Francisco. 
The Mets earned themselves two days off before opening the NLCS in St. Louis on Wednesday. The Mets were 6­3 against the Cardinals this season. 
"It's not going to be easy," Jones said. "They're a great team and play great baseball. We just have to go out and play the best we can." 
The Giants (97-65), who nn­ished with the best record in the majors, had their magical season end with a whimper, in part because Barry Bonds was a postseason bust again. 
Bonds dropped to 0-5 in playoff series -three with Pittsburgh, two with the Giants -with a .196 batting average overall. Fittingly. the three­time MVP made the final out or the series. hitting a Dy ball to 
center lield that left him 3-l'or­
17 against the Mets. 
Fireworks shot out f'rom 
behind tlrn cnntnr-ffold fencn 
and the Mets shot out or their 
dugout to mob Jones on llw 
infield. The Baha Mm1's "Who 
Ll't The Dogs Out" -the song 
that blared throughout l'acilic 
Bell !'ark when San Francisco 
clinched the NL West -play<•d 
as the Bonds and thn Giants 
glumly walked to thn club­
house. 
'Tl! keep trying," Bonds said. 
Arter a few minutns, a leap­ing Lenny llarris Ind the Mets tu a celebration in the club­house. Jones· tcar11mates chanted his name as they doused each other with cham­pagne. 
"I'm so happy t'or Bobby Jones," Al Li1iter said. ''I'm so proud of him. To go out and pitch the best game of his lifo and dismiss all the critics \Vho thought this was a bad deci­sion ... lie went out and nailNI it." 
Sirna Stadium was still filled with electricity from Saturday night's 3-2 Mets win in 1 :1 innings. Fans chanted Benny Agbayani 's name as he stretched bcforn the game. about 18 hours after his honwr had brought the Mr)ts onr. win away from the NLCS. 
That was New York's fifth straight postseason win in the last at-bat. including a 5-4, 10­in n i ng victory in Game 2 at San Francisco. 
Mets fans didn't need to wait nearly as long this game. Jones struck out Bonds on a high fastball to end the first. drawing an ovatfon from a crowd ready for another cele­bration. 
Hobin Ventura gave them much more to cheer about in the bottom hair. After Mark 
Gardner walked Mike Piazza 
with two outs. Ventura turned on a first-pitch fastball and hit it off the scoreboard in right field for just his second hit in the series. 
"Ilc's an aggressive pitcher and tries to jump ahead," Ventura said. "I was a little lucky." 
VNIYE.R.SITV Of NOTRE 0A.M£ INTEilNA't!Or-/AI. STUDY l'ROCRAMS 


ANCERS, FRANCE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Dr. Thomas Bogenschild, Director Student Returnees 
Wednesday October 11, 2000 
4:45 PM 210 De Bartolo 
Application Deadline: December 1, 2000 Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
Notre Dame Relays 
Monday,October 9, 2000 page 17 
Hulick, freshmen step up in first collegiate competition 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Spnm Wrirer 
Freshman Danielle Hulick stood behind the blocks at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Friday night at her first collegiate meet, and was admittedly a lit­tle bit nervous. The only fresh­man on a relay comprised of star-studded returning swimmers. See Also 
she knew she 
Men's

had some big swimming to Swimming do. Part of the 
page 12

lineup in the 500-yard cre­cendo relay that was assigned 
.the task of breaking one of the only meet records not held by Notre Oame women at the Notre Dame Helays. Hulick kne\.v there was a task at hand. 
/\nd that's enough to make 
anyone nervous. 
"I always get nervous before I swim." the Galesburg, Ill. native said. "I was nervous Friday. But I'm always ner­vous, so that isn.'t really any­thing different for me." 
The crowd wouldn't have 
known the freshman was 
uneasy heading up to the 
blocks, as she helped the team 
of juniors Brooke Davey, 
Allison Lloyd and senior 
Tiffany O'Brien to a first place 
finish -and a new meet 
record. Finishing in a time of 4 
minutes, 35.99 seconds, the 
team eclipsed the mark previ­
ously set by Illinois state to 
leave only one meet record 
unowned by Notre Dame 
women. 
It also proved that Hulick and 
her 11 freshman teammates 
are ready to step up to the 
challenge for swimming at 
Notre Dame. Recruited to be 
part of a squad that has the 
challenge of replacing standout 
'00 swimmers Elizabeth 

Barger, Alison Newell and Shannon Suddarth, the fresh­men had a chance to ease into Notre Dame swimming Friday nig.ht in a relaxed meet ath­mosphere. With no individual events, the Notre Dame relays offered the format for fresh­men to "realize this is a team sport," said record-setting relay member O'Brien. 
"This meet is a chance just to have fun and get the freshmen accustomed to the meet format ... and to get the jitters out for them," the senior said. 
The freshmen and returning members of the 2000 Big East Championship women's team began to fill the holes left by the graduating seniors Friday, finishing first in 12 of 13 events and claiming one of two records left unset by Notre 
Dame women. The Notre Dame women topped the meet·with 240 points, followed by second­p lace Illinois State, Butler, Valparasio, Saint Mary's and Marquette. 
Standout swims came from six meet record-breaking relays. The 400-yard individual medley relay of freshman Sarah Bowman, sophomore Arny Deger, junior Kelly Hecking and O'Brien set a new mark in 4:02.05. Deger, Bowman, freshman Jilien Siroky and junior Tara Riggs combined for a new mark in the 400-yard butterfly relay in 
3:56.20. Freshmen Lisa Garcia, Marie Labosky and Jessica Roberts teamed with Hecking for a new record in the 400­yard backstroke relay, finish­ing in 3:52 .26. Sophomores 
Lindsay Moorhead and Nicole Kohrt split the 1000-yard freestyle relay for a new record of 10:11.60; freshmen Laurie Musgrave, Katie Crawford, Siroky and Lloyd set a new record in the 400-yard breas­troke relay at 4:31.13. 
As the first meet in the sea­son, the meet acts as a mea­suring stick for the freshmen -and the team -to monitor how effective their preseason training has been. With two weeks off before their dual­meet season begins, regardless of solid performances at the relays, the team knows they have "lots of work ahead," said co-captain Carrie Nixon. 
"The freshmen have been training their hearts out," Nixon said. "They stepped up a lot and proved to themselves 

that their hard work is paying off. As our first meet of the year, this meet lets us see where we're at training-wise. There's not pressure...but a lot of excitement for the sopho­mores and juniors to step up and fill the holes, too." 
But while work lies ahead, Friday's meet proved that the incoming freshmen are an inte­gral part of the 2000 squad. 
"They're going to be really important," co-captian Kristen Van Saun said. "Everyone did a really good job. We came off a really hard week of training ­we swam that morning and practiced for two hours before the meet. Considering all that, we did pretty well." 
The Irish swimmers face off against the University of Miami on Oct. 27. 
Belles splash into season with veterans, newcomers 
By JANEL MILLER 
Sports Writer 
Looking to fill some big shoes, the Saint Mary's swim team entered Fridav's Notre Dame relavs with a ·delicate mix of experience and youth. But no one, including head coach Gretchen Hildebrandt, expected those shoes to be lilied by the feet of the freshmen. 
Newcomers Elizabeth Doro and Megan Ramsey set the pace for the~ frrshmen early in the meet, helping returers senior Colloen Sullivan and sophomore Megan Hamscy to a third place finish in the 200­yard freestyle relay in one minute, 45.47 seconds, just slightly o!T the school record set at Mli\A Championships in February. 
"After the first relay we were psyched." said Hildebrandt. 
Sixteen freshmen were added to the 2000-2001 roster, mak­ing up the bulk of the team with the experience of few returners. Seniors Erin McCarthy, Lori Schulte, co­captian Olivia Smith and Sullivan are the lone upper­class leadership for the aqua­hell Ps, with support from 
sophomores Lauren Smith, Lane Herrington, and Meg Mikichuk. 
According to Hildebrandt this year's team -while young ­has more depth than in recent years and it showed by their performances this weekend. This depth is what Hildebrandt is looking for to fill the gaps left in both distance and sprint events. 
"It's difficult to not have (returners] but I see people that will step up to the challenge and make adjustments for the we!lbeing of the team," Hildebrandt commented. 
Not one of the 11 relay teams the Belles entered Friday night consisted entirely of returning swimmers. Knowing how the returning women could per­form in the given situation, Hildebrandt used the meet's atmosphere and competition as her way of testing the under­classmen. 
"I knew they were fast by their timns at practice but aftnr seeing their performances in a meet situation it only rein­forced my goals for each of them and the team," said Hildebrandt. 
The freshmen delivered, bringing home a fifth-place fin­ish for the Belles, with key per­formances from the hybrid teams of returners and new­comers. Solid finishes came from the 400-yard medley relay team of Schulte, L. Smith, Julie McGranahan and Megan Ramsey in 4:30.23, good enough for a fifth place finish. The combination of Herrington, McGranahan, Doro and Chloe Lenihan in the 400 freestyle swam to another fifth place fin­ish to end the meet. 
"We fought until the end on each and every relay and it showed in our times and places," said Hildebrandt. 
One of few Division III teams competing in the meet, the meet was also a good chance for freshmen to adjust to. col­lege swimming in an all-relay format. 
"It showed us that we can swim with these teams, and reinforced to the freshmen that this was a fun meet where there was no pressure," said co-captain Smith. 
The Belles, entering their fourth week of practice this week, do not see competition again until Nov. 3 when they face off at home against the University of Chicago and Wabash College. 


·­

page 18 Monday, October 9, 2000
The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish fall 3-1 at Providence despite Richards' first goal 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assisrant Sport< Editor 
In a game with crucial con­
ference implications, the Irish 
men's soccer team fell 3-1 to 
the Friars of Providence 
Sunday afternoon in Hhode 
Island. 
The loss drops the Irish to 4­
6-1 overall and 1-5-0 in the Big 
East, 11th in the conference. 
With five of the remaining 
garn1~s on the Big East sdwdule 
against conference opponents, 
the Irish must now win all of 
th(~se games -including 
Saturday night's home game 
against No. 3 St. John's -to 
keep hopes ol' advancing to the 
Big East tournament alive. Only 
the top eight teams in the Big 
East standings advance to the 
postscason tovrnanrnnt. 
"We've got five Big East games left If we win four of them, I'd say we'rn in," said Irish !wad coach Chris Apple Sunday 1•vnning. "If we win three of them and tic one. there's an outside shot. I'm not going to worry about what the other teams are doing. We're still in control of our destiny." 
The Friars got out early against the Irish. At 19:07 into the game. Friars forward Kevin Jones got the ball at about 18 yards out, dribbled past an Irish defender, and lofted the ball past Irish goalkeeper Greg Tait into the far corner of the net. 
"The first goal they scored we had several chances to clear the ball," said Apple. "They played a nice pass to Jones and he just turned and volleyed a really good shot." 
After Jones was able to pene­trate the Irish defense, Apple inserted junior 8.J. Cotter into the game to shut Jones down. According to Apple, Cotter did so admirably. 
"IL!. Cotter came off the bench and did a great job against one· of the best for­wards in the conference in Kevin Jones," said Apple. "B.J just shut him down. lie did a really good job with him." 
At the 33:31 mark, the Irish ran a series of six passes down the field which culminated with forwards Erich Braun and Chad Biley finding fellow for­ward Kevin Hichards open at the top of the box. Bichards touched the ball past the defender before ripping the ball i.nlo the net to tic the game at one. 
The freshman from Bermuda earned a rare start after a strong week of practice. Apple felt that Hichards' speed and shot-making ability would give the Irish an advantage against the Friars. 
"All week he'd been doing a 
great job in training," said 
Apple. "He's a great one-on­
one player." 
Apple was satisfied with his 
decision to start the youngster. 
"lie played really well. lie 
played a winger position," he 
said. "lie was causing them all 
kinds of problems, getting in 
behind their defense, creating 
chances for other people. 
During the second half he got 
injured. Thal hurt our attack." 
The Irish controlled the ball 
('or the remainder of the first 
half, creating quality chances. 
On one play, freshman Justin 
Detter received a pass from 
Braun only to miss wide. 
The Irish continued lo control play shortly into the second half until Thomas Blcsso ­who had assisted on the first Providence goal -found Derck Cobbe cutting across the mid­dlti. While Tait was <'Xpccting Cobbc lo take the shot head-on, Cobbe instead loftr.d a chip­shot between Tait's head and the crossbar, pulling the Friars up2-1. 
The goal caught Tait off-bal­ance at a critical moment. "It wasn't a good goal. The kid takes the shot 10 times. Greg saves it nine out of 10," said Apple. 
Providence added to their lead at 79: 19, when Andrew Bussman cut across the middle before passing off to a waiting Blesso, who side-volleyed the ball into the goal -on what appeared to be a bicycle-kick. Apple felt that this goal also could have been prevented. 
"It was kind of a counter­attack down the right side," said Apple. "He fell backwards and barely hit it off of his toe, falling backwards. It looked a little bit like a bicycle kick. Greg lost his footing and the ball just kind of trickled in across the goal line. lt was really a weak goal." 
While the Irish played a solid first half. the team appeared to lose composure after the Friars went up 2-1. "That second goal that they had, that really hurt us," said Apple. "Our compo­sure was gl>nc after that. We began to play a bit erratically." 
With the importance of com­ing out of Hhodc Island with at least a tic weighing on the play­ers, the team lost focus on the game plan and individuals began to try to tic the game up on their own. 
"It seemed like everybody wanted to step up and do it," said Apple. "Everybody wanted lo be the guy lo get it done." 
Al'ter a week in which the team will focus on regaining its confidence, the Irish host top-5 ranked St. John's on Saturday at Alumni Field. 
The Medical Scientist Training Program at the Medical College of Wisconsin 
Trainees in this combined M.0.-Ph.D. degree program receive full tuition scholarships and stipends throughout their studies. Highly qualified students with a background in research are encouraged to apply. The training program application deadline 
is November 1. 
Medical Scientist Training Program 
-
Medical College of Wisconsin 8701 Watertown Plank Road 
Milwaukee, WI 53226-0509MEDICAL Phone: (414) 456-8641 1-(800) 457-2775 E-mail: mstp@mcw.edu
COLLEGE 
Web Site: www.mcw.edu/mstp
OF WISCONSIN 
Web Site: www.mcw.edu/studentJmstp 


LIZ LANGrrhe Observer Freshman Kevin Richards attacks the ball during Notre Dame's loss to Pittsburgh on Sept. 29. Richards scored his first career goal Sunday at Providence. 
----tt3---­
Sa:int M~g::yc's College 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
The Nation's Premier Cathc;,lic Wornen's College 


Informational Meeting 
Courses offered in Biology, Music, Philosophy, and Psychology. 
For further information contact: 
Professor Thomas Parisi Department of Psychology . . Saint Mary's College 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone (219) 284-4462 / Fax (219) 284-4866 e-mail: tparisi@saintroarys.edu 
(E-mail is best!) 

Monday, October 9, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TYLER
TOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 42 7, on a phone 71 Monsieur : 

1 Lump of cream, 43 Tailless hoppers Paris:: for example Madrid
44 Really bother 

5 Open a bit 72 Isn't keeping up
45 They have their with bills9 Man with a fable pluses and 

14 Debauchee 73 Zippo
minuses 

15 Wowser 47 Currier's partner 
16 Lollipop flavor DOWN
in lithography

17 Really happy, as 1 Tight hold 
48 Really happy, as

an angel? 2 Sole 
a meteorologist?

20 dish 3 Bump from 51 ·Auto trim
21 Al or Tipper office 22 When said three 55 Unit of energy 4 Southernmost times, a 1970 56 Raise, as kids 
city of ancient war movie Palestine
57 "Two Years 

23 Sault Marie 5 Pub order
Before the 

25 Without 6 Father of 
61 "Measure twice, 

principles Analytical
cut once," e.g. 

27 Really happy, as Psychology
65 Really happy, as

a kid in March? 7 Choir voice 
a mountaineer?

33 "Garfield" dog 8 German 68 Teatime treat
34 H.S. junior's test industrial region 35 Concur 69 Bulrush, e.g. 9 Paleontologist's estimate
40 Tony-winner 70 Remove from a Moore mother's milk 10 A Muse 
--------------· 
1112 "Lohengrin,-e.g. Relish 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
13 Kind of code AMER I CA ANS 
18 Ars longa, _ Puzzle by Richard Hughes brevis

S E T 32 "_skin off my 53 Betray, in a way 62 Region 19 Miami nose!" 
54 Maine college 63 Happybasketball team 36 Submerging town 64 St. Vincent24 Debatable "skill" 37 Sitarist Shankar 
58 60's do Millay 38 Garden with a
eschew it (not 59 Fret 66 For each 
snake
chew it) 60 You, to the 67 Newsman
39 Start of North 
27 'Where the Amish Bradley et al. 
Carolina's mottoheart is" 41 Part of a28 Concept molecule Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 29 Coated with 46 Take to court are a,ailable by touch-tone phone: gold 49 Nautilus captain 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
30 Savory jelly 31 Pope John 50 Sketch Annual subscriptions are available for the Paul ll's real 51 Angry best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 first name 52 From now on years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 



THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
HOROSCOPE 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2000 
CELEBRffiES BORN ON THIS DAY: John Lennon, Sean Lennon, Melanie Mayron, Jackson Browne, RobertWuhl 
Happy. Birthday: You should be looking out for yourself this year instead of doing everything for oth­ers. Allow yourself time for the preparation that will bring the posi­tive results you're looking for. You will gain far more respect and ad mi­ration if you stand up for your beliefs and convictions. Don't get sidetracked. Your numbers: 15, 19, 23, 27, 32, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your imagination will be running ran­domly in many different directions. Don't let your ideas get out of hand. You may overreact if you have con­jured up false beliefs regarding others.000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Groups will bring you into contact with exuberant individuals. You need to spend time with exciting people who will inspire your own creative ideas. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Emo­tional blackmail will leave you feeling down and depressed. Take a longer look at the situation be­fore you bend to the whims of your partner. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your desire to experience unusual activi­ties should lead you to sign up for courses that focus on unique art forms or cultures. Travel will be eye­opening. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You're too generous with your friends and chil­dren. Don't overextend yourself unless you're prepared to suffer the consequences. Financial problems 
EUGENIA LAST 
will lead to a poor credit rating and a loss of respect from your peers. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Pas­sionate encounters can be yours if you get out with friends. The indi­viduals you are introduced to will be good for you. Go with the flow instead of being so partirular. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Use your creative abilities to do the best job possible. Advancement is likely if you can make your boss aware of your contributions and your talents. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Get into social groups that will enable you to meet potential mates. You need to do more with others. Self­improvement projects will be highly successful. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It is best to work on making your home the best that it can be. Plenty of activity will make it diffirult for you to do everything you want. Your efforts will be well worth it. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Unusual individuals will capture your attention. Listen to the opinions of others. You will make lasting friendships through the company you keep. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You can make professional changes if you are willing to go after your goals. Your ideas may be a little · ahead of their time, but someone is sure to recognize your talents. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your emotions will fluctuate. You will be in dire need of attention and in the mood to fall in love. Travel will be in your best interests. Music will play an important role in your life today. 
000 

Birthday Baby: You are intelligent, creative and always looking for some­thing new to occupy your time. You will never admit defeat. You will work ham and be classed as a high achiever. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
© 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name ______________________ Address ... City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
.' 

Season-opening splash 
The Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's swim 
teams opened their seasons Friday night al the Notre Dame Relays.
PORTS 
pages 17, 12 

O
THE page 20 BSERVER 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish take 3rd, 7th at ND Invitational 

TONY FlOYOmie Observer Sophomore Jen Handey (ahove left) placed 20th overall to lead the lrlsh women to a seventh-place finish. 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sports Editor 

Luke Watson and the Notre DamP-men's cross country team exceeded expectations Friday, with Watson winning the Notre Dame Invitational and the Irish placing third. 
''Our goal was to make sure that we beat Duke, and we hopP-d to beat North Carolina State, and we certainly did that," Notre Dame men's cross country coach Joe Piane said. 
Top-ranked Stanford dominated the meet, totaling 23 points, followed by No. 10 Arizona with 116. But No. 22 Notre Dame upset eighth-ranked N.C. St,1te and stayed ahead of Indiana. No. 23 Duke and No. 24 Eastern Michigan. 
"Our purpose in that was to get points to qualify for the NCAAs," Piane said. "At least one of Duke or N.C. State will be in the NCAAs, so that's huge." 
Watson beat out Stanford's top trio of Grant Robison, Thomas Murley and Donald Sage, linishing the 8,000­meter race in 23 minutes, 56 seconds to Robison's 24:05. 
"The key for me personally was just sitting in the pack with the leaders, right where I should be," Watson said. "The last mile Ijust totally turned it on." 
Piane was impressed with Watson's performance. "Luke winning was terrific," Piane said. "He wasn't going to be denied." 
Junior Marc Striowski slid into the top 10 with a ninth place finish, and Pat Conway placed 23rd. Freshman Todd Mobley and junior Sean Zanderson took 47th and 55th, respectively. 
"We ha·d some guys really take some major steps today," Watson said. The Irish should move up in the rankings foUowing their strong race Friday. 
The women, shooting for a fifth or sixth place finish, were slightly disappointed with their seventh place stand­ing. No. 1 Stanford won the women's side as well, fol­lowed by No. 13 Michigan, No. 15 Arizona, No. 24 Duke, Northwestern, No. 5 N.C. State and Notre Dame. 
"Our goal was to be in the top five or six, and we didn't match that," Notre Dame women's cross country coach Tim Connelly said. "Fortunately, we have another shot next week [at pre-nationals!." 
Sophomore Jen Handley led the Irish with her 20th place finish. The next Notre Dame runner didn't cross the finish line until junior Hilary Burn took 40th. Freshman Megan Johnson wound up 44th, freshman Rachel Endress placed 64th and sophomore Jennifer Fibuch placed 71 st. 
"Considering that we had a bunch of kids that didn't run their best performances, we didn't do too badly." 
Welsh shoots down Ducks in 28-0 victory 
By LIA MILHOAN, ELIZA­
BETH HOEHN and SUSIE 
CARPENTER 
Spores Writers 
A slick field and a misty night could not stop the Whirlwinds of Welsh Family llall as they defeated the Ducks of Howard 28-0 Thursday night. 
On the first play of th~ game, Welsh ran a hook and ladder for a first down. 
Two plays later quarterback Katie Hak threw a 21-yard touchdown pass to a wide open Jen Yee. Welsh complet­ed a two-point conversion for an early 8-0 lead. 
The Whirlwinds applied relentless defensive pressure and sacked Howard quarter­back Jill Veselik twice in a row and Howard was forced to punt. 
On Wclsh's second offensive series, Alex Callan ran the ball to Howard's 5-yard-line setting up the second Welsh touchdown. 
On the following play, Jen Grubb threw to the endzone where Vanessa Lichon made a diving catch on slick grass to give the Whirlwinds a 14-0 lead going into the half. 
Quarterback Rak said of the wet conditions, "I think we dealt with the weather well. We couldn't run a couple of plays because of it, but we worked with it." 
Early in the second half. Welsh's Erin MacKenzie intercepted Veselik's pass at the Welsh 5-yard-line. However, Veselik intercepted Katie Rak's pass on the fol­lowing play. But Howard never got in a rhythm on offense and Welsh took over. 
Grubb took a hand off from Rak and ran to the Howard 3 yard line before being declared out or bounds by the officials. 
Rak then threw her second touchdown pass of the evening to round out the scor­ing for Welsh, giving them an insurmountable 20-0 lead. 
"Our defense once again stepped up. It is a great com­fort knowing we have a good defense. Our offense has probably not executed better this season then they did tonight," said Welsh coach Casev Bouton. 
"W'c had to make sure we didn't get complacent [after securing a playoff berth] I couldn't have asked for a bet-
see INTERHALL/page 16 Monday, October 9, 2000 


WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish overcome Wildcats 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Spores Writer 
They did exactly what they 

were suppoSl\d to dt1: win. 
However, Notre Dame women's soccer victories over Big East opponent Villanova did not come easi­ly, even though it helped the Irish to tie their best start ever, standing at 13-0-0 

Makinen

The Irish nearly came home defeated, narrow­ly avoiding what would have been an upset for the ages. When Notre Dame .head coach Handy Waldrum led his troops into Philadelphia Sunday to battle the Wildcats of Villanova he anticipated an easy game. This was a match in which he hoped to play some of his rflserves and give his starters a well-deserved rest. _ 
On this day, however, no starter would get a breath11r. Instead the Wildcats left the Irish gasping for breath for much of the game, before allowing them to finally breathe a big sigh or relief in the end. · 
With the scored tied at zero in the game's 80th minute, Irish senior Anne Makinen nearly scored the winner off a corner kick, before allowing Villanova to do the rest. 
Makinen bent the ball over Wildcat goalkeeper Janel Schillig toward the far corner. Villanova's Colleen Keneally tried to knock the back ol' the net bound ball off the line but instead directed it into the net for an own goal that would allow the Irish to escape with a 1-0 victory. For Makinen clo-se enough was good enough and just enough for Notre Dame to breathe a great sigh of relief. 
The Irish came in waves but couldn't penetrate the brilliant Schillig -who made nine saves, many spectacular in nature. 
The shutout was the fifth in a row for the Irish but came with could be a considerable price. Already without fresh-
see SOCCER/page 14 

=========--::.-=--=--=--=-------=---=--=-----=--=--=----_-_--_-:.================================================================================================= 
at Kalamazoo vs. Boston College vs. Navy
... 
~ Tuesday, 7 p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.m. ~ Saturday, 12 p.m . SPORTS ·~ 
ATA 
at Illinois State Cross Country 
vs. St. John's
~ 
Wednesday, 7 p.m; Ames Pre-National Meet 

~ Saturday, 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday
GLANCE • 



