
One step closer to the White House 
The Blame Game 
Republican presidential hopeful George W 
When something goes wrong, don't blame the 
Wednesday

Bus'h scored big wins on Super Tuesday. Vice 
messenger. writes columnist Kimmi Marlin. 
president Al Gore swept the 
Viewpoint . page 10 

MARCH 8,

Democratic primaries. 
2000

News . page 9 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII NO. 99 

FACULTY SENATE 

Members approve Student Life report 
. Group also asks ND to join Workers' Rights Consortium 
By JOSHUA BOURGEOIS A~sis1anr News Edi tor 
The Fawlty Senate passed two reso­lutions Tuesday dealing with a report to the Ad l loc Committee on Academic and Student Life and the Progressive Student Alliance request for the Cniversity to take further action against sweatshops. 
The committees on academic affairs and student affairs drafted the report debated at the meeting. The report intends to inform the Ad Hoc Committee on Academic and Student Life on the faculty's role in the integration of acad­emk and campus life. The Ad Hoc Committee will then write a report on the issue in April. 
The Faculty Senate H.eport to the Ad lloc Committee on Academic and Student Life suggests that there should be "either the reorganization of the Campus Life Council [CLC) or the forma­tion of a new body to replace it fthe CLCJ to oversee the integration of Academic and Campus life." 
According to the report, some of the issues the suggested committee should deal with are "Residence Hall Faculty Fellows or Resident Faculty Masters and Senior Tutors; oversight of all disci­plinary procedures involving student organizations, including media, addressing politically or academically controversial issues and organization of the system of residence halls to promote specifically academic goals as well as those currently pursued in the residence halls." 

After debating the inclusion of a diver­sity clause, the Senate voted to endorse the report by a vote of 28-3. The report will now go to the Ad Hoc Committee on Academic and Student Life. 
Aaron Kreider of the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA) attended the 
meeting and presented the Senate a proposal that asked the University to withdraw from the Fair Labor Association (FLA) and join the newly formed Workers' Rights Consortium 
see SENATE/page 6 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
SMC bans indoor smoking 
By MOLLY McVOY News Writer 
Saint Mary's administration handed down a new smoking policy, to go into effect next semester, which limits the areas where students are allowed to smoke. 
The policy pro­

New smoking
hibits smoking in any buildings on policy campus and . No smoking in any e n c O u r a g e s buildings on campus.
smokers to smoke only out-. Smoking encouraged 
side near the at ashtrays, away from ashtrays which will be provided. doors and 
This will ensure windows. no smoking near .Takes effect Aug. 1. 
doorways and windows, according to the policy. Presently, smok­ers are allowed to smoke in their rooms with their roommate's permission and in provided smoking areas in the resi­dence halls. 
Most non-smokers are pleased with the policy, but many smokers and non­smokers alike were surprised that this was passed and disappointed that their input seemed lacking in the decision. 
The decision met mixed reactions from the students. 
'Tm just curious as to where this poli­cy came from." said Megan Kosel. a junior non-smoker. "I can see how, if you're a non-smoker, it came out of 
see SMOKING/page 4 






Community celebrates McCormick at memorial Mass 
He was 77 years old. McCormick's contributions to the was determined to return to hisBy JASON McFARLEY Father Theodore Hesburgh, public. McCormick was the recip­work at Notre Dame, according 
News Wricer 

University president emeritus, ient of many academic honors, to McBrien. said that McCormick would have was a member of the American "He never lost hope that he 
Family, friends and community been thankful for those who Academy of Arts and Sciences would return to Notre Dame, if 
memben. filled the Basilica of the attended the memorial services. and was a past president of the even for one more football week­Sacred Heart to half its capacity "[McCormick] was a wonderful Catholic end," McBrien as they gathered to celebrate the friend and colleague. He was Theological said.
"[McCormick] was a
life and 
open to all ideas, all friendships, Society of Although the 
achievements wonderfulfriend and
open to everyone," said America, memorial of the late Hesburgh, who presided over the McBrien said. colleague. He was open Mass was an Father 
Mass. McCormick occasion to
to all ideas, all

Hi chard The event drew many who was also a pub­pay tribute,
McCormick at friendships. open to
knew McCormick, including his lished author McBrien said a memorial three sisters ;Jnd other extended and made reg­everyone." Tuesday's ser­Mass held family members. Friends, col­ular appear­vices were 
Tuesday. 

leagues and people from ances on televi­intended to
Father Theodore Hesburgh
McCormick, McCormick throughout the area were also in sion news pro­call attention a professor attendance. grams. presider to a life of emeritus of father Richard McHrien, a fel­"Many bene­accomplish-Christian rthics, was a world­low theology professor, delivered fited from his ments, not renowned moral theologian who the homily. Hr. called McCormick wisdom and counsel," McRrien death. The bonds of friendshipspecialized in biomedical ethics. an integral part of not only his said. "Now that he has left this and love that McCormick stood 
Ile had been a member of the 
immediate family but also of the earth, his renown will not cease." for are not broken by his passing, Notre Dame faculty since 1986. 
Notre Dame community and tho Both McBrien and Hesburgh McBrien said. A Toledo, Ohio, native, Society of Jesus to which he had remembered McCormick as a "Father McCormick's presenceMcCormick died of natural caus­
hr.longed since 1940. courageous man. Last June, es on Feb. 12 in Clarkston, Mich. McBrien recalled some of when McCormick first fell ill, he see MEMO RIAL/ page 4 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, March 8, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 


It's just a place, right? 
In three months. I'll be gone. I realized that the other day when an envelope filled with com­mencement information met me at the mailbox. It was a sign ofmy collegiate mortality. 
And when I opened that envelope, and read such dry material about how exactly Notre Dame is going to kick me 
out. I began to cry. 
It wasn't a sob event. It was just a smt.11 trickle, enough to make me notice a change in my emotional well-being, but not so much that I couldn't weasel my way oul of explaining why there was a tear running 

down my cheek. {It was a 
piece of dirt, l would proba-Mike Vanegas 
bly say.) 
A.njrv.'ay, I suppose it's just the sentimentalist who's Scene editor been hiding deep down in my soul for such a long time. I've never pretended not to be a sensitive person. But I've never pretended to be a big fan of loving Notre Dame and every­thing attached to it. 
I've visited the Grotto when I needed spiritual mending. I visited the Main Huilding when it reopened. I went to all the home football games. 
But really, I would have made those trips if I were at any other school. It was really my spiri­tuality, my curiousity and my interest in sports that instigated them. 
So why did I cry when I discovered that I was on my last leg at good ol' Notre Dame? 
It's because everything I thought was impor­tant in my life was somehow infected by this place. I've been here for three and a half years already. A.nd I've grown attached to it. 
Don't get me wrong. I don't regret coming to Notre Dame. I'm glad I made the decision to attend the only school to which I applied, and which accepted me. 
But did I expect Notre Dame to fully become part of my psychological being? I nev~r really took advantage of everything Notre Dame boasts offering its students. I never took part in any extracurricular activities aside from the march­ing band (which helped me get into the football games for free) and The Observer (which I con­sider more of a job). I just didn't embrace Notre Dame. 
But now, I find myself trying to wring every­thing that is Notre Dame out of my brain. I don't want to cry when my parents come back to South Bend for the first time since freshman ori­entation. 
I don't want to cry when I sit with my fellow Domers at the commencement Mass or at actual commencement. 
I'd much rather consider these last four years as just another four years in my long life. Why can't Notre Dame be a place instead of a lifestyle? 
But, for some reason, I don't think that'll hap­pen. 
That's why I was offended when everyone lashed out against the newly corrupted Notre Dame student body last week for the action of a single "waterboy" whom I've forgiven already. (I didn't care much in the first place.) 
So, though. I'll probably be crying my eyes out come mid-May, I know that soon after, when I leave this place, I'll be crying my eyes out about how I don't have a good job, no future and a new life I'm not too sure about loving. 
The views expres.<;ed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Tim Logan  Jacqueline Browder  
Colleen McCarthy  Bridget Maloney  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Graphics  
Sports  Jose Cuellar  
Katie McVov  Production  
Viewpoint  Rachael Protzman  
Dustin Ferrell  Lab Tech  
Liz Lang  

The Observer (USrS 599 Z-4000) i, puLlishcd Monday rhrough Friday excep1: duri."g exam :J.Od vac.at\on periods. The Obs.crvcr is a membt:r of the Associarcd Press. All reproduction righcs arc reserved, 

THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Watercolor class:  . Entertainment: "Evening  
Nappanee Public Library,  at Moontree," music,  
Nappanee; 9:30 a.m. to  dance and visual arts,  
3:30 p.m.; (219) 773-7919.  Moontreo Lodge Cafe,  
9802 Upas Rd., Plymouth;  
7 p.m. to 9:30 p.m.  

Friday 

. 
Flea Market: Collectibles show and sale, Pierre Moran Mall, Elkhart; 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. 

. 
Theater: "Clue," Batten Community Center, 904 N. Main St.. Mishawaka; 8 p.m. 


Saturday 
. Performance: "Dance Kaleidoscope," ELCO Pnrforming Theater, Elkhart; 7:30 p.m.; 1-800­
597-7627. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
FDA denounces Penn gene study, won't lift ban 
PI-I ILADELPHIA 

In a scathing letter to Penn's Institute for Human Gene Therapy on Friday, the U.S. Food and Orug Admini.stration rejected the [nstitutc's defense of its handling of the clinical study that cost an 18­year-old man his.life and refused to lift the ban on gene therapy at the university. 
In the 20-page warning letter addressed to IHGT director James Wilson, who led the study, federal regulators charged the researcher with having "failed to fulflll the obligations as the sponsor" or gene therapy studies, and accused him of violating federal human research regulations. 
"We are disappointed that the FDA appears to discount a number of the responses to those charges filed by the IHGT," University of 

The warning comes six weeks after the rDA charged the Institute with 18 possible violations of federal research protocol breaches and placed a ban on all gene therapy at Penn. !HGT officials responded to the allegations last month and an external committee of scientists is expected to release its findings by 
mid-April. 
Federal regulators refuted nearly all of the responses offered by the Institute concerning the gone thera­py trial in which Jesse Gelsinger, who died last September, was enrolled. Wilson and his researchers later determined that Gelsinger died of multiple organ failure induced by the gene therapy. 
The Institute -which until recently had been considered one of the top gene therapy research cen­ters in the world -now has 15 business days to inform the FDA about any corrective steps that will be taken and submit any data and documentation for which the letter calls. 
But a source close to the investiga­tion said that the University will now only submit the documents asked for in the letter; it will not seek to dis­pute every point with the FDA. 

Packer apologizes to Duke students 
DURHAM, N.C. 
Through an e-mail to two students, Billy Packer said he never intended "to disparage Duke University or its students." CBS basketball commen­tator Billy Packer apologized Monday to two Duke students for sexist remarks he made to them at a home more than a week ago. "I am sorry you were offended by my comments as I entered Cameron on Feb. 26," Packer wrote in a brief e-mail to Trinity junior Jen Feinberg and Pratt junior Sarah Bradley. "It was never my intention to disparage Duke University or its students." Bradley and Feinberg responded and accepted Packer's apology Wednesday. "We were pleased to see it. I was actu­ally sort of stunned when I saw it pop up in my e­m ail," Feinberg said. "We're glad to have it resolved." CBS had no official statement on the issue, saying that it was between Packer and the students. Packer, who was criticized in 1996 for calling basketball star Allen Iverson a "tough mon­key," declined further comment Monday, calling it a "personal matter." 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
\.
Saturd1ay 



Sunc;tay_ 


Q,~,~9.M~ 
(f ~ Ll 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy V,a Associated Press GraphicsNel 

NYU votes to join labor rights group 
NEW YORK 

The university senate voted Thursday to join the Workers Rights Consortium (WRC) on a conditional basis and send representatives to its first organiza­tional meeting in April. All but one of the senators present at the meeting voted in favor joining the WRC after nearly 20 minutes of debate over the language of the resolution. The WRC is a newly formed independent monitoring group that would oversee the implementation of wage, condition and civil rights standards in the apparel factories that NYU subcontracts for the manufacture of universi­ty-logo garments. So far 13 universities including NYU have joined the organization. according to the WRC. Arthur Tannenbaum, chairman of the sen­ate's public affairs committee, presented a report recommending that "the full senate vote to recom­mend that the university join the WHC on a condi­tional basis and that the president designate a member of the university community to serve as NYU's official representative to the group at its April meeting." 



NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather'" forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 8. 
Ur.es separate high temperature zones 1or \he day. 
~

® co . EZJc:::J . !22lcm .'WI~-~, 
High Low Sllownre Rain T•storms FlurrlH Snow lee sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
v,a Assnciafed ~re-ss 

Wednesday, March 8, 2000 The Obseruer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Members discuss future of Dalloway's clubhouse 

Prof wins 


Mass Schedule  book  
Basilica  award  
11:30 a.m.  Special to The Observer  

"The Talkies: American

5:15 p.m. 
Cinema's Transition to Sound, 1926-1931," by Donald Crafton, professor and chair of the department of film, television and the­atre, won a 1999 Kraszna­

Junior Class Mass at 

LaFortune Ballroom 
Krausz Book Award. Crafton received the


5:00 p.m. 
award, in the history and JOSE CUELLAR/fhe Observer 
culture category, during ceremonies Feb. 1 at the Royal Society in London. His book was chosen from among five finalists, which in turn were collected from 







(C)py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
Phone 631-COPY 
High Volume Copying Color Copying, Scanning, & Printing Binding / Laminating / Fax Service Newsletters / Reports / Manuals Complete Desktop Publishing Service 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! Quality Copies, Quickly!''" 



Botched Copies 
getting on your nerves? 
Don't get stressed. If office copiers 
are going to make a mess, give The 
Copy Shop in the Lafortune Student 
Center a call. We'll take the fuss out 
of all your copying, collating, and 
binding projects. Our staff is ready 
to untie the knots of your copying 
backlog and get you running smoothly. 
For all of your copying needs, contact 
us. 

Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
Copyright 2000 • All Rights Reserved • 02/00 
among 283 books repre­senting 11 countries. The Kraszna-Krausz awards alternate annually between books on photography and on moving images. 
Crafton joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1997. He graduated from the University of Michigan in 1969 and received his first master's degree from the University of Iowa. He earned his second master's and his doctoral degree at Yale University. 
Got 

News? Call 1-5323. 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
News Writer 
Construction updates, a visil. from the newly elected Notre Dame student body president and vice president and introduc­tions of new Board of Governance members highlight­ed the Saint Mary's BOG meeting Tuesday. 
The Historical Preservation Committee had a meeting to dis­cuss the fut.ure uf Dalluway's, Saint Mary's clubhouse. At this point, there are no definite plans to tear it down, but it may revert back to th0 Sisters of the Holy Cross if the current transaction goes through. ln this transaction, Saint Mary's would get a new clubhouse and also the softball and soccer fields for develop­ment. The school hopes to break ground on a new clubhouse soon. 
In more construction news, the major renovations in Regina Hall may begin as early as spring break. Nancy Midden, current Saint Mary's student body presi­dent, announced that BOG would help the Jubilee Community Commitment Committee by sub­mitting feedback on the student bodv's behalf. 
The committee was established in December to examine docu­mentation going back to 1975, Midden said. It also sought to make recommendations based on their findings. The committee submitted their suggestions to the Administrative Council and is now looking for feedback. 

Angie Little, student body vice president, announced several activities for Women's Month in March. 
Some of the activities planned include a study break, a service project called "Bottomless Closet," which will focus on pro­viding women with business attire who would not otherwise be able to afford it. 
"Carolyn Kelley did a really good job [setting this up]," Little said. Kelley is the representative for Women's Studies on the Student Academic Council. 
In other BOG news: 
. Brian O'Donoghue and Brooke Norton, Notre Dame's student body president and vice president elects, officially intro­duced themselves at the meet­ing. 
Current student body vice president Michael Palumbo was also in attendance, along with Saint Mary's student body presi­dent-elect Crissie Renner and vice president-elect Michelle Nagle. 
O'Donoghue and Norton's visit served to wrap up the controver­sy which enveloped both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's elec­tions. 
Other newly elected officers who were introduced at Tuesday's meeting included Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association president-elect Mindy Rennaker and junior class president-elect Katy Robinson. 
. BOG was asked for two co­sponsorships. The Student Nurses Association requested funds to attend a conference in Salt Lake City in April. The sec­ond request was for a mission trip to the Lillian Trasher Orphanage in Asyut, Egypt. 
"It's the most amazing experi­ence I've ever had," Robinson said of a previous mission trip. Robinson's father, Dr. Jim Robinson. runs a dental facility at the orphanage. Hobinson and Nagle will be traveling with him this summer on the trip. 
. 
Midnight Madness will be held on March 31, from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. The evening includes finals for the intramural sports, games, food and a DJ. Grand prize is an all-expenses paid trip to Chicago. 

. 
Nominations for the Student Leadership Appreciation Award, given to a faculty, administration or staff member who prepares students as lead­ers, are due March 24. 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 8, 2000 
so much advertising aimed at young women that we want­


S01oking
Dennis lauds Salvadoran ntartyrs 
ed to take a stand." 


By NELLIE WILLIAMS News Writer 
On Nov. 16, 1989. six Jesuit priests and two women in El Salvador were mercilessly gunned down. 
Tuesday, Sister Marie Dennis, director of the Maryknoll Peace and Justice Center came to Saint Mary's from Washington to tell their story. "Like grains of wheat," she sairl, "Thrv werr holy people of God," ·· 
The "grains of wheat" were Ignatio Ellacuria, SPgundo Montes, Nacho Martin-Baro, Juan Ramm, Moreno, Amanda Lopex and Joaquin J.opez y Lopez. The two women killed were Elba Ramos and her 15­year-old daughter, Celina. 
'Tfhese people] were imitators of Christ, followers of Jesus. They were seeds of new life," Dennis said. 
The country of El Salvador is filled with poverty. In a very complex situation, the govern­ment and military control most of the wealth and had wauted the poor to stay in poverty, Dennis said, As long as there was poverty, there was econom­ic and social power in El Salvador, 
The Jesuits, however, spoke out. They critiqued the govern­

DOROTHY CARDER/The Observer 
ment and the Farabundo Martin 
Liberacion Nacional. 

"[The Jesuits] were given to dedicated service," said Sister
"[The Jesuits] were given to 


Marie Dennis Tuesday during her Lenten Lecture. 
dedicated service," Dennis said. They taught in the Central Sabreno. "He wrote, 'My whole do [for the poor]," she said. "It is

American University in El 

community had been killed."' not possible to keep on living inSalvador and were theologians, He went on to tell how two of abundance. We are wantingsociologists and psychologists. 
his brothers had been taken out more and more while millions of "They were able to stand in into the garden, beaten and people are dying day by day."
the shoes of the poor," Dennis machine-gunned down while the She also said that people need 

said. "They always, always 

others where shot down in their to find "places to walk with the
talked about 

beds. The two poor" and allow them to change
justice. They 

women stay­them and become more human.
believed it was 'The Jesuits were killed 

ing in the People need to challenge them­
possible to 

because oftheir belief in house were selves to take down barriers
bring in peace 

and justice." and love for the poor. " there because that separate them from the they "felt crucified ones, she said.
Their beliefs safer in the Dennis emphasized that evenand hopes for 


Sister Marie Dennis 

house with all in her own life she had a hardthe poor of El director, Maryknoll Peace and that was time dealing with a poor family. 
Salvador cost Justice Center going on." Her heart went out to them, yet 

the Jesuits 

"The Jesuits she could not find within herself their lives. 
were killed the courage to invite them to her
" T h e 

because of their belief in and home.
strength of their action terrified love for the poor," said Dennis. "I was embarrassed to inviteauthority," Dennis said. 

Dennis said people should be these children to our homeJohn Sabreno, also a Jesuit challenged, especially at this because we had so much more
who taught at the university 

time in Lent to think about the than they did," she said, with the other six, was away in 
martyrs and our own lives. "[The martyrs] are a cloud of
Thailand when his brothers 

"We need to place ourselves witnesses to the gospel," Dennis were killed. 
before the crucifix and ask our­said. "They are seekers of a new"No account is more poignant selves honestly what we have life for us -the martyrs of Elthan his own," Dennis said of done and what we are going to Salvador." 



Mentorial 
continued from page 1 

was a very great blessing to so many," Hesburgh said. 
McCormick graduated from Chicago's Loyola University in 1945 and obtained a master's degree from that institution five years later. In 1953, Mc(ormick was ordained into the priest­hood, and in 1957, he obtained his doctoral degree in theology from the Gregorian University in Home. 
He was a professor of moral theology at the Jesuit School of theology in Chicago from 195 7 to l 97 3. For the 13 years prior to his joining the Notre Dame facul­ty, McCormick was a professor of Christian ethics at Georgetown University. 


THE CUSHWA CENTER 
•


c::Jr1_ 
FOR THE STUDY OF 
AMERICAN CATHOLICISM
7JF 


''From Sectarian SUflerill9 to Oomn•lonate Solidarity: . ' Jd8811h Cardinal Be~brallll the AmerlQln catholic .__aue or SUllerinu'' 

continued from page 1 The policy is an effort to help non-smokers avoid sec­ond-hand smoke and 
nowhere." 
encourage smokers to avoid 

Jessica Barnett, a junior the unhealthy behavior. involved in a petition early "I am really glad that, as a 
this year to 
strict non­
try to stop smoker,

"It really came from our
the policy can walk 

from going desire to stand up through myinto effect, 
against something that is residence 
shared 
halls and 

Megan's not healthy." 
outside my
perspective. 
classrooms 
"We had 

Karen Ristau without hav­
no voice in 
ing to hold

vice president and
this," she my breath,"

dean of students
said. 
Kosel com• 
T h e mcnted. 
administra-Some smokers agree that tion appointed a task force this policy will help them which included professors. 

curb their habit by keepingstudents and administration them from smoking in their 

to investigate smoking on the 
rooms. campus and to put together a "I think it is a good idea proposal for change. 
not to Im able to smoke in Jami Newcomb, a student 
the residence halls." said 

member of the panel who 
Emily Koelsch, a smoker. "I smokes and was opposed to think it will help people quit

prohibiting all smoking in the if they can't smoke at nightresidence halls, said that 
in their rooms." although the committee was Many non-smokers who there, the decision was made next smokers arc
live to 
prior to its inception. 
pleased that their neighbors
" [ T h e 
will not be 
committee I 
able to 

had as part "/don't want lo ruin 
smoke in 
of our rcso­

anyone's health, but I their rooms,
1 u ti on 
helping to

don't think Saint Mary's
allowing 
cut back on 

smoking has the right to t(}ll me 
their sec­
lounges in 

what I can ond -hand 
the resi­
smoke

and cannot do. " 
d e n c e intake. 
h a I I s , " 

"I live Newcomb Jessica Barnett next to a said. "The 
junior smoker and 
administra­
I hate it,"
tion apolo­
said fresh­
gized but man Karen Schaff. 

explained that they were "Whenever she smokes, it 
going to change that and ban drifts into my room and the all smoking in the halls. Why 
entire hall reeks of it. I like 

did they have the task force the idea of the non-smokingif they knew what they were 
dorms. It isn't fair for non­going to do already? I think 
smokers to have to breathe 

it was a true infringement on that smell. We should be our rights." 
able live without that incon­The policy came from an venience." effort by both the adminis­
Many smokers feel that the tration and lrnalth servjces to 

administration is infringing encourage healthy behaviors on their rights.by the student body accord­
"It's frustrating," Barnett ing to Karen Histau, vice said. "I don't want to ruin president and dean of stu­anyone's health, but I don't 
dents. 

think Saint Mary's has the "It really came from our right to tell me what I can and desire to stand up against cannot do.... I think it's an 
something that is not 
individual choice, not one that 

healthy," she said. "There is should be forced on us." 
SAY...



"altee4e~ie,, 
COFFEE & BAKERY 
Proudly Serve 
• CORNER BAKERY From 

TI,. Rl;l'UIUC./~.A

Chicago 
Mon-Fri 7am-10pm/ Sat._10am-10pm 
(Special Hours Before & After Theatre Performances) 
213 North Main Street, Downtown South Bend 
(Behind Morris Performing Arts Center) 
233-Cafte 
GRAND OPENING MARCH 23, 2000 (HELP WANTED) 

. 
. 
.




orld 
•I 


Wednesday, March 8, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Day care center to provide anonymous baby drop 
1!,\M13UllG, Germany 

llesperatf' 111others who do not want their babies will soon be able to drop them off anonymously through a chute at a Hambuq{ day care center undE'r a projer:t being launched by a youth hdp organization. When placed into tht1 chute, a baby will fall into a warm !:led anrl bo placed in tho program's care. project leadPr lleider Kaiser said, :vlothers have eight wPeks to rethink their decision, she said, The program was devised to give women an aHernalive to abandoning or ,wen killing their babies when they can't or don't want to keep them, Kaiser said. In the United States. Minnesota has introduced a similar program and Los Angeles is discussing ono. A baby drop also exists in South Africa. 
Arizona Democrats participate in first-ever Internet voting 
PHOENIX 

Arizona Dnmocrats on TuPsday started what tlwy believ<~ is the futurt> of voting -using the lnlPnwt in the nation ·s first such ballot cast in a binding dPction for public office, Maricopa County SupPrvisor Mary Hose Wilcox cast the first vote l'rom state party headquarters at 
12:01 a.m. By mid-aftf\rnoon, abnut 7,000 people had voted and the Web site was recording about 100 votes every 5 minutes. To vote, registered Democrats visit Election.com, which leads them to the Web page where they can vote. They have to enter a personal iden­tification number along with state and date of birth. On primary day, other voters will have to go to one of 124 polling places where they can use either a traditional paper ballot or computer. 
Bob Jones U. lifts dating ban, requires parental consent 
GREENVILLE, S.C. 

Students who want to take advantage of Bob Jones University's decision to drop its ban on interracial dating will need a note from their parents. Bob Jones III, the school's president, announced an end to the ban Friday. On 1\fonday, he told nearly 4,000 students at a daily chapel service that they must tell their parents if" they become involved in an interracial rela­tionship. "We will carry out the will of your par­ents," he said. "They will need to have a say in this." Parents must send a letter to the dean of· men or women approving the relationship before the school will allow it, Jones said. He said at the chapel service that most people view interracial marriage as an unwise decision, "I think that's evidenced by the fact that so few people are interracially married," Jones said. "When you date interracially or marry interra­cially, it cuts you off from people." 

Dow AMEX: 1016.94 
]ONES -5.42 
Nasdaq: 
4847.84 

0 
-57,0 I 
NYSF: 
588.57 
-15.45 
S&P 500: Composite 1355.62 

Volume:9,796.03 1.3ll9,358,848
-35.66 


VOLUME LEADERS 
pq,u,

C9MPMX \ CBNiAE. •.HMGI PRICE P'k.OCTER it GAMBLE PG -Jl.60 -l7 .6J ~9.81 
Ml'CJlCSCP'I' cau• MSFT +2 .255 92. 88 .COHPAQ CONPOTSR CPQ -J. 71 •l.OS? .16.IB' Dti.L COHPUT&R DELL -'.LU -1.000 65. 75 LUCEN"l' TECR I~C au -7. U! -5. 500 68.00 OJU.Ct.l: C~P Oll~L -1 .0'1 -0.81O 
,i,2. ·~ 
""·"'­

3COK COP.P CONS . l.R6 +2. 687 7:2.25. 
us roODSERVlCZ Ul'S . ll, 55 tli.13!) 24.J8 CISCO SYS"!'UfS csco -l. !,!1 -4 .Ol!i'5 134.0i Sl'tlR (8'P SOIQ) SPY --l...93 •:ii .700 137, 05 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
CHILE 


Pinochet through most of the former year-old son, Enrique Ropert, was
Associated Press 

dictator's 16-month detention in arrested in front of the presidential 
SANTIAGO Britain, warned that trying Pinochet palace the day of the coup "and exe­
Less than a week after returning "will bring instability to the country." cuted by agents of the State. His from confinement in Britain, the ail­A day earlier, Judge Juan body was found on the banks of the ing Gen, Augusto Pinochet faces 72 Guzman, who is handling the suits, Mapocho River by the end of the lawsuits for human rights abuses, asked the Santiago court to strip same month." including six filed Tuesday with the Pinochet of his congressional immu­Another new suit was filed by Santiago Court of Appeals, nity so he could be tried in the case Yolanda Avila, the widow of Jose 
Chief Justice Hernan Alvarez dis­known as "the caravan of death" -Liendo, a leftist accused of organiz­
missed warnings by critics that the killings and disappearances of ing guerrillas in southern Chile and strong military support for Pinochet 72 dissidents in the days after the executed a few days after the coup. might interfere with the pursuit of Sept, 11, 1973 coup that brought Attorney Francisco Bravo said justice. Pinochet to power. Liendo had been executed after "a 
"Citizen Augusto Pinochet can be Among those who filed new suits highly irregular" military trial. tried the same as any other Chilean," on Tuesday was Miria Contreras, the "A text of the procedures was Alvarez said. "The courts do not secretary of former President never found, and Liendo was not 
accept pressure." Salvador Allende, whom Pinochet provided with a lawyer," Bravo said. 
He admitted, however, that "this is ousted in the coup. According to the official report, indeed a complex situation that A report by the elected govern­3,197 people were killed or disap­requires prudence." ment that succeeded Pinochet in peared for political reasons during 
Fernando Barros, a spokesman for 1990 established that Contreras' 20-Pinochet's 17-year reign. 
Jurors debate date-rape drug poisoning 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 
Jurors began Tuesday deliberating the fate of a man accused of causing the death of a 15-year-old girl by slipping a date-, rape drug into her soft drink. · 
Joshua Cole. 19, is charged with three counts of felony poisoning, each carrying a possible life sentence, and involuntary manslaughter. Manslaughter is punish­able by up to 15 years behind bars. 
In closing arguments Tuesday, defense attorney John Courtright told jurors that his client acted out of ignorance but did not intend to harm the teen-ager. He said Samantha Reid's death was a "tragic accident." 
"No one would knowing­ly hurt themselves or their friends," Courtright said. "Sometimes things happen that shouldn't happP.n, and it's a tragedy." 
Prosecutors say Cole and three other men gave the girls soft drinks secretly spiked with gamma-hydroxybutyrate 

during a party Jan. 16, 1999, 
Samantha died the next day. HM friend Melanie Sindone, now 16, fell into a coma but recovered. 
Courtright asked the jury to consider Cole's aclions the night of the party and afterward: car­rying the unconscious girls from the apartment to a van and calling their. parents from the hospital when others urged him not to. 
Wayne County assistant prosecutor Doug Baker said in his closing argu­ment Monday that Cole 
knew GHB was potentially harmful, because he told police investigating that he had tried it once and gotten sick. 
The trial is believed to be among the first in the country resulting from a GHB-related death. 
Two other men Nicholas Holtschlag, 18, and Daniel Rrayman, 18 -are each charged with involuntary manslaughter and two counts of felony poisoning. A third, Erick Limmer. 26, is charged with poisoning, delivery of marijuana and possession of GHB. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 8, 2000 
McEvoy: Northern Irish youth face host of challenges 
By AMANDA GRECO 
News Writer 
Though conOict in Northern Ireland is nothing new. the youth there are encountering more uncertainty, insecurity, inter­and intra-communal violence and segrega­tion than ever 
"No group is more
before, Northern according to charged with carrying Ireland, one­Siobhan third of all chil­
thP peace process
McEvoy, who dren live in
forward than the youth." 
S p O k C poverty, the Tues<lay at unemployment Notre Dame. rate is the high­
Siobhan McEvoy
McEvoy, a est in the UK
Kroc Institute fellow
visiting fellow at the Kroc Institute, examined young peo­plP's political attitudes and alle­giances, experiences of violence and interests in the war-torn province. 
She spent the last several months in Ireland interacting with mostly Protestant youth and conducting interviews to gather information. While thPre, McEvoy witnessed firsthand the vulnerability of the peace process, as well as the optimism of youth that can envision a peaceful future. Northern Ireland's peace process is gener­ally seen as spanning the last seven years, McEvoy said, with 1993-1998 being considered the conflict resolution era and 1998 as post settlement. 
This current method looks to see that actions taken are viable with the young. 
"No group is more charged with carrying the peace process forward than the youth," she said. 
Knowing that more than 40 percent of Northern Ireland's population is younger than 24, McEvoy said that the youth hold the hope for a peaceful future. For those she studied, anywhere from one-third to one-half of their lives have taken place dur­ing the peace process. 
"There is no escaping the peace process, and the children 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
(WRC). 
The proposal urged the University to ,vithdraw from the FLA because corporations pos­sess veto power in the organiza­tion. and the organization does not demand public disclosure of its reports. The WRC, according to the proposal, operates with­out corporate oversight and will make public its annual reports. 
Kreider wants the University to join the WRC by April 1 so that the University can have a voice in the organization's founding conference on April 7. 
The issue was sent to the com­mittee on Student Affairs and after debate thfl committee decided to write its own resolu­tion to propose to the entire Senate body. 
The committee proposed "that the Faculty Senate endorses the initiative· of the Progressive Sturlent Allianrn in favor of Notre Dume joining the Workers' Rights Consortium by April 1, 2000 " 
After clarification that the Faculty Senate was not endors­ing the University's withdrawal nf the FIA. but the joining of the WRC, the resolution passed 23­5. 
In other news: 
. Two memorial resolutions 
above all are aware of and affected by it," she said. 
Though all are aware of the need for µeace, there exists a notable difference in how this peace is envisioned, McEvoy said. Opinions are influenced, for example, by where one lives, his or her socioeconomic status and religious affilia­tion. In 
and 27 percent of those unem­ployed are under 25. 
One of the arnas McEvov con­centrated on concerne·d the youth's perception of violence. Here she found that these ideas were "shaped by local histo·ry and parental experience." From 1994 to 1998, violent outbrnaks in Norl.hern Ireland declined. Since then, however. the rates have steadily risen. 
People between the ages of 16 and 24 are more likely to have witnessed and participated in sectarian violence. When McEvoy surveyed 12-to 17-year­olds, she found that 76 percent felt that this violence was directly linked to religion. Twenty-five percent said they had to hide their religion from others; 27 percent had received threats because of their religion; 47 per­cent purposely avoid certain places out of fear; more than half understand religion as a source ofviolence. 
These violent attacks, howev­er, stem not only from members of opposing sects, but also from the police and paramilitary sol­diers who supposedly prevent violence. · 
"The youth are acutely subject to police brutality and communi­ty sanctioned punishment in many areas," she said. 
These violent attacks continue unabated in post settlement-era 
passed remembering men's soc­cer coach Michael Berticelli and theology professor Father Richard McCormick. The Senate observed a moment of silence in memory of these colleagues. 
. 
Senate chair Jean Porter announced in her report that the Faculty Senate surveys on the performance of the Provost were distributed, and she encouraged all faculty members to encourage their colleagues to complete and return the survey. 

. 
The committee on Academic Affairs reported that they are going to investigate the reason for the rise in the University's average grade point average. Also, student body president Micah Murphy reported to the committee on the content of the Board of Trustees report. 

. 
Members of the committee on Administration stated that they invitPd University presi­dent Father Edward l\talloy to discuss his goals for the Board of Faculty and Athletics. 

. 
Assistant to the president Chandra Johnson mPt with the committee on Student Affairs in February, reported Ava Preacher. Preacher said the committee met with Johnson in 


order  to  inquire  about the  
University's  ban  on  GALA  
advertisements.  Johnson,  

according to Preacher, "could not speak for President Malloy." PreachPr said she wrote a letter to the president asking for a meeting, but the president has not yet responded. 

Ireland. Eighty percent of 16-to 25-year-olds have experienced physical, verbal and sometimes sexual harassment. 
"Religion-related violence remains an immediate experi­ence in the peace 'process for many youth," McEvoy said. 
Though it seems the youth should be interested in turning their leadership away from vio­lence, their political allegiances lie overwhelmingly with either the Democratic Unionist party or its Republican counterpart, Sinn Fein, both of which are seen as highly militant groups. I lowever, 19 percent of tlw youth surveyed said Llrnt they do not support any of tlrn parties cur­rrntly active in Nort.lrnrn Irnland. 
"The youth aro frustrated that Lhore are few real opportunities l'or engagement other than the sectarian or extremist groups," McEvoy said. "Tlrny have very low perceptions of' political effi­cacy." 
Thi, major challrnge for peace builders, she said, is to ar.com­modatfl and constructively har­ness the diversity of the youth. 
"The young aren·i just victims of change but active participants in the transformation process," she said. 

MIKE HARRIS/The Observer 

Kroc Institute visiting fellow Siobhan McEvoy tells of the involve­ment of young people in the Northern Ireland peace process at the Hesburgh Center. 
RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 
While TIAA-CREF 
invests for the long term, it's nice to see performance 
like this today. 
TIAA-CREF delivers iMpressive results like these by combining two disciplined investment strategies. 
In our equity accounts, for example, we combine active management with enhanced indexing. With two strategies, we have two ways to seek out performance opportunities-helping to make your investments work twice as hard. 


Combine this with our low expenses and you'll see how TIAA-CREF stands apart from the competition. 
ii 
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it.'" 


CREF GLOBAL EQUITIES .ACCT. 1  
36.05°10  22.02°10  18.75%  
1YEAR AS OF 12/31/99  5 YEARS AS OF 12/31 /99  SINCE INCEPTION 5/1/92  

With over $250 billion in assets, we're the world's largest retirement company and the leading choice on America's campuses. If that sounds good to you, consider this number 1 800-842-2776. Call and find out how TIAA-CREF can work for you today and tomorrow. 
1 800 842-2776 
www.tiaa-cref.org 
1.The invt.-stment results shown for the CREF variable annuity reflect pa.st performance and are not indilative of future rates of return.These returns and the value or the prin­ctpal you have inv~ted will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less th.an their original price upon redemption. Foreign stock markets are subject to additional risks from changing curren9 values, interest rates, government regulations, and political and economic conditions. 2, TIAA-CREF expe~5es are subject to change and are not guaranteed forth• future. 3. Source, Morningstar, Inc. 12/31199,tracking 279 world stock mutual funds. TIAA-CREF Individual and lnstrtut,onal St>rvices. Inc.distributes CREF cer­tificates and interests in theTIAA Real btate Account.Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the variable component of the personal annuities.mutual funds and tu~ion savings agreements,TIM and TIAA-CREF life Insurance Co. issue insurance and annuitie~TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services, Investment procllJCts ire not FDIC Insured, may lose val.,.and ,,.not bank gUilranlNd, For more complete information on CREF.including charge< and "pense,,call 1 800 842-2776,ext. 5509,for the prospectus. Read it carefully before you invest or ,end money. Cl 2000 TIAA-CREF 1/00. 


Wednesday, March 8, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 7 

Keys receives prestigious Olin fellowship 
political theory, public policy,By SAM DERHEIMER 

American government, 

News Writer 
American foreign policy or the historical study of gov­

Mary Keys, assistant profes­ernment or economics. sor of government and While on leave, the fellow­international studies at Notre ship will step in and cover Dame, won't have to worry the costs of Keys' salary at about grading any papers or Notre Dame and benefits for tests next year. She won't the entire year. Keys will have to worry about prepar­then be able to take the year ing any lectures. In fact, she off from teaching to concen­
won't have to  trate on  her  
worry about tr-aching class at alL  "I really love to teach, and I'll miss the regular  Olin project, "Virtue, Law, and the  
Keys was named as one  contact with students."  Common Good: The  
of eight John M. Olin  Mary Keys  Relevance of Thomas  
Faculty Fellowship  government professor  Aquinas." "l really  
grant recipi­ love  to  
ents  by  the  teach,  and  

National Association of I' II miss the rngular contact Scholars (NAS). The grant, with students," Keys said. awarded annually, is for any "But I hope to return to the junior faculty members who classroom in a year with more 
has completed his or her doc­energy, and at least a few new torate and who works in the insights." social sciences or related The process of winning the 
fields, provided he or she has grant was a daunting one. 
some research interest in Keys was first nominated for 
Experi ·ng wi aker? 
If you are a Freshman, Sophomore or Junior with Mac skills and want to work for a few hours a week call Brett Huelat at 246-1488 or stop by The Observer office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. You will not find a better job on campus! Great Pay!! Very Flexible!!! 
the award by fellow Notre said sophomore Mike Richard, Dame government professor a former student of Keys. "She Michael Zuckert. She then had provided a lot of insight into to submit a description of her the fundamental concepts of intended research project and politics." publication plans, a copy of Richard said he believed her curriculum NAS made 
and a copy of "I really liked her class. a good 
an preexisting decision in
She provided a lot of
published book choosing chapter or arti­insight into the Keys. 
cle she had fundamental concepts of " T h i s 
written. After a w a r d
politics."

that, the deci­should s i011 was left grant her solely to the Mike Richard the time discretion of a n d
fonner student of Keys
the NAS selec­tion committee. 
Keys was notified she had been chosen in late January of this year. 
"It's a wonderful opportu­nity to complete by first book. I also hope to write a new article or two over the course of the year," Keys said. "It's also nice to know that some scholars outside of Notre Dame find my research pro­ject important and interesting enough to fund." 
"I really liked her class," 


1oney $$$$$ 

Work for The Observer Ad Design Department 


motio resume 

resources 

to enlight­en many, not just those who were fortunate enough to take her class." 
Keys earned her bachelor's degree from Boston College and her master's and doctor­al degrees from the University of Toronto. Keys has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1995, specializing in political theory, with a focus on Christianity and policial thought. 

California 
bans gay 
marriage 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Californians overwhelmingly banned gay marriage, cracked down on juvenile crime and rejected an overhaul See Also of cam­
"Inconsistent view

p a i g n financing of homosexuality Tuesday. 
misleads

Those measures students." 
were just 
Viewpoint 

some of the 20 page 11 social, political and pocketbook pro­posals on the California ballot Tuesday. Voters also reaf­firmed their support for casino gambling on Indian land and rejected an attempt to repeal the tobacco taxes championed by director Rob Reiner. With 17 percent of precinctc; reporting, 1,009,656 voters, or 66 percent, supported the gay marriage ban, known as Proposition 22, while 521,460 voters, or 34 percent. opposed it. California, like every other state, does not license gay marriages. Proposition 22 bans recognition of gay mar­riages performed in any other state. Similar ballot measures passed in Alaska and Hawaii in 1998, and signatures are being gathered in Colorado and Nevada. But the stakes, as always, seemed higher in the nation's most populous state. The issue galvanized politi­cians and church leaders on both sides, with each side claiming they were fighting for families. Supporters raised about $8 million and oppo­nents about $5.5 million. Proposition 22 was spon­sored by Republican state Sen. Pete Knight; the opponents included Knight's gay son. "Probably it's my small town upbringing and the fact that I've been going to church all my life," said Lewis Cain of Sacramento, who voted for Proposition 22. "It just scemr-d like the right thing to do." Reiner returned to the polit­ical theater to oppose the measure that would have repealed the SO-cent-a-pack cigarette tax he campaigned for in 1998. With 14 percent of precincts reporting, the measure had 966,711 no votes, or 71 percent, and just 402,039 yes votes, or 29 per­cent. The original tax -designed to fund early childhood devel­opment programs -squeaked through, prompting cigarette retailer Ned Roscoe to launch the repeal effort. However, the tobacco companies failed to jump in and the campaign never grew. Also on the ballot was a sec­ond try at legalizing casinos on Indian land. With 19 per­cent of precincts reporting, there were 1,071,630 yes votes, or 64 percent, to 609,740 no votes, or 36 per­cent. A similar measure passed in 1998 but was struck down as unconstitutional. This time, the measure sought to amend the state constitution in a ver­sion supporters hoped would stand up. 

page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 8, 2000 
WEST BANK 

Arafat, Barak meet as independence deadline nears 
+ Leaders hold summit in hopes of restarting stalled peace efforts 
Associated Press 
HAMALLAH 
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat met late Tuesday to try to settle their differences 
o v e r stalled p e a c e efforts. 
The two met in Savvon. an affluent suburb of Tel Aviv, a senior Palestinian official said. Separately, an Israeli official confirmed that the meeting had taken place but gave no further details. 
President Clinton's top Mideast envoy, Dennis Ross, arrived in Israel earlier in the day on his second visit to the region since talks collapsed last month over a disagree­ment on an interim troop withdrawal from the West Bank. 
Ross' return prompted spec­ulation that he was carrying new proposals for both sides. The Palestinian official, who spoke on condition of 

JAPAN 
Subway derails, kills 2 
Associated Press · 
TOKYO 
A subway train derailed and hit an oncoming train during rush hour Wednesday, killing two passengers and injuring at least 19 others, officials said. 
Three of the injured were rushed to hospitals uncon­scious following the 9:03 a.m., said Tokyo Fire Department spokesman Fukuo Isozaki. 
The cause of thP dPrailment near Nakameguro Station in western Tokyo, one of Tokyo's busiest subway lines, was not immerliatcly known, said spokesman Ryuichi Kinoshita of the Tokyo llapid Transit Authority. 
Public television network NHK broadcast live coverage showing the wall of one of the train's rear cars sheered off, apparently when it hit the on­coming subway train, which was on a parallel track. 
Kyodo News agency report­ed that the train had been derailed by an explosion inside one of the cars. 
But Tadao Ando, an otlicial with the Cabinet's Crisis Management Office, said there was no evidence of sab­otage or any criminal act in the accident. 
anonymity, said Ross was to attend the meeting. 
The official said the meeting was spurred by the peacemak­ing efforts of Egyptian President llosni Mubarak, who called Arafat and Barak on Monday to discuss a new package of Egyptian and American ideas. The propos­als include some minor Israeli concessions. 
In the land dispute, Palestinians wanted the inter­im troop withdrawal from 6.1 

percent of the West Bank to include populous suburbs of Jerusalem. Israel refused, 
Barak saying dis­
cussion of the suburbs should be under­taken during final-status negotiations on the city, claimed by both sides as a capital. 
Arafat suspended final-sta­tus talks last month over the issue, saying that if he could not trust Israel on relatively minor issues, there was no point in negotiating the major issues. 
Earlier Tuesday, Arafat told his legislature that he would declare Palestinian statehood this year, with or without Israel's consent. He said Israel must stop procrastinating if it wants to meet a September deadline for a peace treaty giving it a say on the terms of statflhood. 

"This is the moment of truth. The gover~ment of' Israel must stop dictating and wasting Lime," Arafat derlarnd. "We will only accept the implementation of the agreements and will settle for 
nothing less than  our  l'ull  
rights."  
The  Palestinian  leader's  

speech was interrupted by hearty applause, especially when he said 2000 was the year of Pa!Pstinian indepen­dence. 
The Palestinians prefer to win statehood as a result of' a peace agreement with lsnwl. A unilateral declaration by Arafat would leave his admin­istration with control over only 40 percent of the West Bank, and could possibly trig­ger a military confrontation with Israel. 
Arafat already agreed once, in May 1999, to postpone a statehood declaration, and thus would find it difficult to do so again if a peace treaty is not reached by September. 
Israel radio reported that Israel would propose gestures on other issues in hopes that Arafat would give in on the West Bank suburbs. The radio reported that those other issues would include the release of prisoners, the establishment of a second "safe passage" route for Palestinians between the West Bank and Gaza, and the approval of a Gaza port. 
High bloodpress11re .feels like nothin°..., al all 
SAME GOES FOR THE CONSEQUENCES. 
While 1-q, blood pressure may have no syrnptDmS, ft does have "'""""""' Like increasing your risk o! heart attack and stroke. Thats 'fflfy<)l.l should ask )'OIJr doclrlr tc ched< y<)l.lr blood p,essure and help you control !l Leam more 
American Heart d._
at www.amertcanheart.org or caB 
Association.V 
1-800-AHM.ISA1. ~tdl,,gl-4-aftOIAMMIMIIStrvial 
Thil..-:ai:wtNlded••~MMCI.. 011il91i1,Anllncan...,~ 
March 7th 8-;'VQt31~ ivi ~ufc,~+vtne by.+he elevato"4s 
. Arafat: 2000 is year of independence for Palestine 
Associated Press 

l{AMALLAl-l 
Palestinian lAader Yasser Arafat said todav he would not budge from his decision to declare indep!lndence this year. unilaterally if necessary, and urged Israel to stop pro­crastinating in peace ration, and would find it diffi­cult to do so again if a peace treaty has not been rnached by September. 
Addressing the Palestinian Legislative Council today, Arafat said: "The [decision on 
a] declaration of independence is a final one, one of no going back, within the time frame of agreements between us and Israel." 
Arafat spoke just hours before U.S. mediator Dennis Ross was to return to the region. Hoss failed last month 
tu restart the peace 

"The government of talks, and
talks. 
his un1ix­

Arafat Israel must slop dictating 
p e ct e d
issued thfl 

and wasting time." 
r e t u r n
warning in a 
prompted
speech to 
speculation

t h e Vasser Arafat 
he was car­

Palestinian Palestinian leader 
parliament. HP-was interrupted by hearty applause, especially when he said 2000 was the year of Palestinian indepen­dence. 
The Palestinians prefer to win statehood as a result of a peace agreement with Israel by the set September deadline. A unilateral declaration would leave Arafat with control over only 40 percent of the West Bank, and could trigger a mili­tary confrontation with Israel, which he could not win. 
However, Arafat has already agreed once -in May 1999 ­to postpone a statehood decla­
rying new 
proposals 
for both sides. 
The Palestinian leader said he remained committed to peace talks, and accused Israel of procrastinating. 
"The government of Israel must stop dictating and wast­ing time," Arafat said. "We will only accept the imple­mentation of the agreements, and will settle for nothing less than our full rights." 
Negotiations broke off in early February, largely because of a dispute over so­called interim issues, such as partial Israeli troop with­drawals. 


Aureate Media 
www.aureate.com 
LOOKING FOR AJOB? 
w1 n11a, •111111¦¦111. llrlNIIICI ¦1n11rs. 
UIIUlil IIUIBNrl. 
111-HIIHIIS,
. 
£_,,._........
_ 

Killer APP 
helped me find mv moio 
Student programmers and software developers...Do 1100 have what it takes to develop the KILLER APP? 
Develop agame or utililll and submit h to Aureate Media bY APrll 1. 2000. If it sthe best 1100 could win $2000. II not, 1100 could still make alot or mone11. An11 questions? E-mail: klllerapp@aureate.com. 
NOt>URCI-IASENtc~i\RY. TobcelitpbleyoumuMhc:aU.S.,.,bllhl ISyeanOJolder. ~~-di~tonorAuta&r f.W(ha Corpnphon and••~ atlilullcd ~ompruc:s, arid their 1mmod1ate f-llluheso, memt,cna ofllK ume bi;,,1,,::boJd1. an, !KIi d1g1. lite. Tonier, -,i ICop)'Oftht fOtiWl.~prc,gn.m, along Wllbyour IWllC, lddreu, agt., phone 1111mbefaad e-nwl addrea10: A.wale Mod•• Co,poral1oa.,.A11cQ11oa.: Kd!«Appl11;a.t1011 Cooleet Adm1111sta1Qf, )9168 Old Muldleficld W1y, Moulll•rn Vww, 
CA 94043 Elller u n-any «1ftwan: proprru H yw hkc, but eaoh <crury muJI ~ MIil ~c:ly. ED1na mu.i be o,(lC!Ved by ll:59:,9 p,m. E.T,. Apnl I, 2000. One(!) grand pnu ofSl,000 will bt awartkd. No sub5t1lUl.1oa oflbcgmid put Wlllbc lllow«I, W1nnor, and 01horc11tnoit Mle<:tcd ror rn..:lu1i011111 tbe Aw~le lldwork, ~ill be deu::muned 111 lbe t0le drtcreboa <lf'the Judp bu.! lip'>n lhe dct.1!. mu• appeal, muketahdny, 1_aton.ct1vtly and Vl-1 aspe,;t• ofllw: Olin"-Win11er will he not,fiod b)' nwl Ol e-ffllll. Wrnne1, aad otbet entnes 11el«:tcd lor 111c.lui00n in the Aure&1c nctwort, WIii be anoo,.m,;~ by M..y I, 2000. Odd• of WIDIIUII wm w.ry with partic1i:-,tu111. Tue• llfC ,i.e 101c inpo11111bihl)' of the wia,,er. The WlllHI', alld tbc (IWll<fl or ....,In• ..,[od.! fOf rndu1mo 10 lbc: A11rate nctwori-:, WIii be r,:,qwred to exocule lhe followin1: lubtlily and Pubhaty Relcu.,, Affidrn1 of E!itpbtlity ll'III SoJ\wm Developer Jlcguuauoo ~-Coutesl coad1,11..1o:I by Aweaic Med11 u:wponLIOD, 1916801d Middlefield Way, Mou1111in View,CA 940,fJ. P« ¦ c.....,ld" Kl olOffic11I Rules ora li" oftbc w11111er•Dd lbolt tt1ln• .dtc:eed fo..-iac,l1m,1,a i8 1he ~e 114WOl"ll, pl.,..., and • IC!f-ad~ .._mpw eavek,p,, lo ,\uJ'Nile Mffil.l Ull'pOl'IUOO, do Kulcr ~C...lcsl Admi111mator, t\un:alc Medi, C'.orp(n&a011 ualff'ICS IKI respcalibilily fw \Oil, mull· lated, laleoc-rnlldb"'''od nllles, ot fo, ..,y c0tnp111er, lokpboae. network, ekc:lrmli, or Wern« b¦nfw•re or .oftwan= n..tftmc:• ll<lDI 0( f1.1luia. VOID WHERE PROHIBITJ-D. 
Wednesday, March 8, 2000 The Observer . ELECTIONS 2000 page 9 
Bush outpaces McCain in Super Tuesday primaries 

Republican primaries 
J.$ Slates hOlding their Republican primaries or r-aucuse, 
C States lt'lal a!t~dy ha"Ve h.e!d lheff R.epublii::.ari primaries or caucuses 
Results as of 
9:30 p. m. EST 

% of precincts  % of returns  % of retums  ,.IQ of returns  
STATE  reporting  BUSH  KEYES  McCAIN  
CALIFORNIA  0  
CONNECTICUT  81  46  ,.  
GEORGIA  74  61!  27  
MAINE  69  51  44  
MARYLAND  40  56  37  
MASSACHUSETTS  28  32  64  
MISSOURI  54  58  35  
OHIO  24  60  35  
RHODE ISLAND  0  
VERMONT  60  35  62  

Nole: In the New York Repub/kan primary. voters seiect national convention detegales­cJireclly. Therefore, relums are not reported her~. Also, Minnesota and Washington an. ho/ding caucuses. Perrentages may not ioral 100 due lo olhet candidales and categories, such as uncommitted. Oil the ballots 
Democratic primaries 
Here are the latest, unottic1al returns of the Democratic p11maries. 
:$, Slates hok.lillg the1r Democratic primaries and caucuses 
'® Slates that have already hekl thetr Democratic primaries and caucuoes 
Resufls as of 
9:30 p.m. EST 
% of precincts STATE REPORTING 
CALIFORNIA CONNECTICUT GEORGIA 
MAINE 
MARYLAND MASSACHUSETTS MISSOURI NEW YORK OHIO RHODE ISLAND VERMONT 
81 75­
6& 45 .30 
52 
14 
26 
60 

Source: Complied from AP wire reports AP 
ATTENTION JUNIORS, SENIORS & GRADUATE STUDENTS 
RESIDENT ASSISTANTS AND Hill DIRECTORS NEEDED: 
Holv Cross College Is looklng tor afew good men and women to serve in our residence lite program. 
Mature men and women are needed in a coed environment of over 200 freshmen and sophomore resident students. 
Live-across the street from Notre Dame while being an RA or HD. 
The successful RA candidate will receive room and board 
while the HD candidate will receive room/board and salary. 
Holy Cross College is atwo-year, liberal arts college with atransfer-intent curriculum and apopulation of approximately 500 students. 
Note: Hawaii, !daho, North Dakota and Washingfan are holdir,g ca1.1C1Jses. Percentages may not total 100 due to ether candidates and ca,egon·es, such as uncommitted, an the ballots. 
Source: Compiled from AP Wife reports 

If interested, please contact: 
Mr. Chris Ruhe Director of Residence Life Holy Cross College P.O. Box 308 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219} 239-8409 cruhe@hcc-nd.edu 
* 
HOLY (;ROSS 
COLLEGE 
Right for you. Right from the start. 
C 2000 Holy Ci"05s College 

Associated Press 
Cruising across the regions, George W. Bush won five Super Tuesday primaries in an accel­erating drive to vanquish John McCain's political insurgency. "It's a huge step toward the nomination." the Republican presidential candidate said as McCain struggled to broaden his thri>at beyond independent­minded New England states. 
Bush won in Ohio. Georgia, Missouri and Maryland by dou­ble-digit margins -and broke McCain's hold on tho Northeast with a narrow victory in Maine. McCain won in Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Vermont as voters in 13 states participated in the year's largest night of 
Republican pres­
"He [Gore] is the
idential contests. in Sedona. 
New York and candidate of the status Some aides 
California were quo in Washington. D.C, planned to vet to be count-recommend
and he has a tough case
ed. the senator 
to make in the general 
Bush said he depart the did not consider election." race while himself the cer­others tain nominee. looked for 
George W. Bush
"My frame of him to forge mind is to keep Republican presidential on to the 
moving," he told candidate nine pri­the general election began to take shape: Vice President Al Gore bid to sweep 16 Democratic contests, pushing Sen. Bill Bradley to the brink of withdrawal. McCain's situation was not as dire, but his candi­dacy was flagging with a tough week of Bush-friendly contests lying just ahead. 
Looking past McCain to a potential fight with Gore, Bush congratulated the vice president for his Super Tuesday victory, but said, "He is the candidate of the status quo in Washington, D.C., and he has a tough case to make in the general elect.ion." 
SPveral McCain advisers, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the Arizona senator would take stock of his campaign Wednesday when he travels to his retreat 
The AP as the campaign moved swiftly to nine primaries in the next seven days. 
Forging familiar coalitions, Bush relied on party faithful while McCain drew from inde­pendents and moderate Republicans. McCain's gamble of criticizing conservative Chrisitan leaders may have backfired in key states, while Bush's visit to a South Carolina university with a history of anti­Catholic views seemed to be a beneficial campaign issue for McCain in some states. 
With Super Tuesday voting, 
maries 

coming up in the next seven days. 
McCain himself embraced his victories in the Northeast and held out hope in New York. 
"Clearly, we have done very well on the East Coast," he said. 
Neither candidate could accu­mulate the magic number of 1,034 delegates Tuesday, but Bush hoped for a string of victo­ries that would drive McCain from the race and allow him to turn his attention to Gore, who has gained against the GOP front-runner in head-to-head polls. 


Gore dominates Bradley in elections 
Associated Press 
Al Gore swept past Bill Bradley in an unbroken string of states on Super Tuesday, pushing his rival to the brink of withdrawal in the Democratic presidential cam­paign. "In this election, we are the party of the mainstream," the vice 
president said, swift­ly turning his focus toward November. 
Gore won from '.'Jew York to 


Georgia to Bradley Ohio and at several 
stops in between, regularly gaining 60 percent of the vote or more. Seeking to shut out his rival. he also bid for victory in California, the biggest prize on the busiest night of the pri­mary season. 
"He won. I lost," Bradley said succinctly. The former New Jersey senator tele­phoned Gore with his congrat­ulations. and said he would announce his plans within a few days. Aides did nothing to discourage talk of a withdraw­al. 
Polling place interviews with voters in every region of the country underscored the vice presid-ent's strength among 
core constituencies vital in Democratic primaries. 
Blacks preferred Gore over Bradley by a margin of 6-1; and Hispanics by 8-1. The margin among union members was smaller, but a healthy 3-1. 
Gore also won the vote of independents, a key element of Bradley's electoral strategy, and a group that the 
Democratic 


nominee will need in the general election race. The exit polling was con­ducted by Voter News 
Gore Service, a 

consortium of the AP and television net­works. 
Gore defeated Bradley in the New England states of Maine, Vermont, Connecticut, Massachusetts and Rhode Island, completing a regional sweep that began in New Hampshire's leadoff primary more than a month ago. 
He triumphed, as well, in Georgia, where he was win­ning roughly 80 percent of the vote; Ohio, roughly 70 percent; and New York, Maryland and Missouri, roughly 60 percent. 
Bradley came closest in Vermont, where he was gain­ing 44 percent of the vote. 
The delegate tally lagged the popular vote by hours. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page l 0 BSERVER Wednesday, March 8, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. NoH< Dame. !t-; 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, !N 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krup,1 

MANAGING EDITOR  81,;SINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
ASST, MANAGING EDITOR  
Lama Pecelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWl'OINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughcn SPORTS EmTOR: llrian Kessler 
SCENE Er,!TOR: Michael Vanegas SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers W1m ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
0FFIC£ MANAGER/GENERAL lNf0..............63 l-7471 FAX............. . ............................. 631-6927 AvVtRTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observec@darwm.cc.nd.edu EDITOR lN CHIEF .........................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME.................... 6.}J-454 l BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS................................ ..........................631-5323 observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.. .... , ... , ......................................631-5303 observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SrORTS............... ,........................................631-4543 observer.sporrs.1@nd.edu ScENE.. .......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site ar ht1p:llobrerver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, ieacures and opinion columns, as well as carcoons. reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the movies/music for 
minute forecasts week!y student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­and rates ofprinr ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
abo111 The Observer 
articles published after 
IO meer the editors and Augusr 1999 sca!T 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by che students ofthe univecsicy ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither msticurion. The Obsen•er reserves rhe right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accucarelv and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenr the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letcers to rhe Editor muse be signed and musr include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­


ed to Eduor ir, ChiefMichelle Krupt!. 
DILBERT 

ONE OUT OF TEN 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
E 
0 
u 
g 
@) 
..
,,
.. ~ 
i 
E 
8 
t: 
g 
1::1 
As I sit here watching Monday Night Raw, I can't help hut think about the type of age we live in where it is so easy to place blame everywhere but on ourselves. I love it every time the Rock says "candyass" and "rootypoo." I watch in anticipa­tion of seeing who will be thrown headfirst into a table. It is violent, and it is entertain­ment. 
Realize, though, that my 22-year-old brain understands that this is a show. I am disgusted, however, when the camera pans the audience and I see kids no older than 10 holding up their middle linger and saying "suck it." 
Last year, a young boy who could not have been older than 9 accidentally killed his younger sister. He was imitat­ing a wrestling move he saw on one of the many professional wrestling shows on television. The public was so quick to blame these entertainers. 
Crusades have been launched empha­sizing that violence in television shows and video games is the cause of such tragedies. The real tragedy is that the W\'VF is not to blame. That child should not have been watching the program in the first place. 
I recently saw an episode of Jerry Springer, whose show is notorious for its ridiculous brawls. I have to say. it was a little disappointing to sec that they now edit out the fight scenes. 
If you watch Jerry Springer, you are watching to sec who is going to fight. The hilarity is the. fact that this show is a complete mockery of humanity. Viewers cannot believe that these peo­ple exist. 


The audience is there to see a show. A show that is crazy, wild and unlike reality. It is not real. Yet, Springer has been the subject of scrutiny when the values of America are the crusades of the day. Here is a man who is making millions capitalizing off of fights between "porn stars in drag with a sexy secret to tell." 
Critics often ask, "What kind of mes­sage are we sending to the children who see such programs on television?" I ask this: What kind of parent would let their 6-year-old watch Springer in the first place? Don't condemn the man who is making his living by giving his audience what they want to see. 
After the Columbine tragedy, news stories circulated that the two obviously troubled teenagers who killed several people may have been influenced by the heavy metal music they listened to. This idea is ridiculous. 
The concept of right and wrong is instilled in each of us at birth. What happened that day in Colorado was done by two people who knew exactly what they were doing. Without regard or respect for human life they acted out of their own free will. Marilyn Manson did not pull the trigger. 
A short time after the Oliver Stone's movie "Natural Born Killers" was released, a man committed murder, cit­ing that his motivation formed after viewing the violent and graphic film. 
Lawsuits were brought against Stone. The media chastised him for creating such a violent and gruesome story that resulted in the loss of human life. What the media failed to mention was the millions of other people who saw the movie and did not kill anyone. 
It is horrible that this crime was com­mitted, but it is just as scary that some­one could actually be released for com­mitting such an act based on the defense that "Oliver Stone made me do it." 
Displacing blame is not just a society­at-large idea. It happens everyday and it often happens here. 
Consider this situation: A girlfriend tells her boyfriend that she is tired and is going to sleep on a Thursday night. He later finds out that she went out to Heartland and danced the night away. She returns and discovers that a friend of his saw her there and told the bovfriend. 
So what does she do? She calls his friend, yells at him and accuses him of involving himself in business that is of no concern of his. She never apologizes for her actions but displaces the blame. 
I-low many times have we known about a test for weeks, not studied for it until the night before, barely passed it and then adamantly blamed the profes­sor for making the test so hard? That's right, it must be his fault -not our own -that we did not do well. 
If we do not start taking responsibility for our own actions in minor situations likes these, we will never accept the responsibility in the future when it really counts. It starts with us. It starts in the home. Certainly outside forces with negative factors foster growth. Only we plant the seed. 
So the next time your 5-year-old cousin says "suck it," don't blame v\TWF president Vince McMahon. 
Kimmi Martin is a senior at Saint Mary's College. Her column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I RECOMMEND 
CANCELLING THE OTHER 


"Culture is roughly anything we do and the monkeys don't. " 

Lord Raglan 
-------------------------. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Wednesday, March 8, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
Inconsistent view of 
homosexuality misleads students 
On Tuesday, the people of California voted on Proposition 22, which proposes that, "only marriage between a man and a woman is recognized in California." 
A genera­tion ago, and for the past two millen­nia. thfl truth of that proposition would have been regard­ed as self­nvir!ent. Today it is doubted hPcause of a cultural redefinition of the nature of homosexual acts, of the homo­sexual inclination and conse­quently of marriage and the fami­ly. 
More to the point, one may fair­ly question whether the California proposition would be approved by a majority at Notre Dame. This is so because for several years, the administration has permeated the campus with a view of the subject that is incoherent and mislead­ing. 
Let's review some basics. Homosexual acts are intrinsically wrong. As the Letter on the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons, issued with the approval of John Paul Ir in 1986, states: "It is only in the marital relationship that the use of the sexual faculty can be morally good. To choose someone of the same sex for one's sexual activity is to annul the rich symbolism and meaning, not to mention the goals, of the creator's sexual design." The homosexual inclination is not a sin. However, as the 1986 letter states, "Although the particular inclination of tbe homosexual person is not a sin, it is a more or less strong tendency ordered toward an intrinsic moral evil, and thus the inclination itself must ~.e seen as an objective dis­order. 
The Catechism sums it up: "The 
number of men and women wbo 
have deep-seated homosexual 
tendencies is not negligible. This 
inclination, which is objectively 
disordered, constitutes for most 
of them a trial. They must be 
accepted with respect, compas­
sion and sensitivity. Every sign of 
unjust discrimination in their 
n~gard should be avoided. These 
persons are called to fulfill God's 
will in their lives and, if thev are 
Christians, to unite to the sacri­
fice ol' the Lord's Cross the diffi­
culties thev mav encounter from 
their condition.'" (No. 2358.) 
Notre Dame commendably 
insists that persons of homosexu­
al inclination are entitled to 
respect and acceptance as mem­
bers of the University community. 
The administration also says that 
homos<1xual acts are prohibited 
by "official Church teaching," but 
it refuses to affirm that the incli­
nation toward those acts is disor­
dered. That makes no sense, and 
it misleads the students. If, as the 
Catechism states, "homosexual 
acts are intrinsically disordered," 
(No. 2357), how could the inclina-tion toward those acts be any­thing but disordered? If the incli­nation is not disorderPd, why may it not be acted upon? 

Sine1~ the administration docs not recognize the inclination as disordered, it infers that the pro­hibition of homosexual acts is an arbitrary edict of an insensitive Church. In truth, homosexual acts, and the inclination to them. are "intrinsically disordered," not because of "official Church teach­ing," but because they are con­trary to nature and the law of God. 
The Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, last May, forbade Sister Jeannine Gramick and Pather Robert Nugent to engage in homosexual ministries beC'ause their positions on "the intrinsic evil of homosexual acts and the objective disorder of the homosexual inclination are doc­trinally unacceptable." Sister Jeannine's speech at Notre Dame last week was co-sponsored by the Counseling Center. That makes you wonder what kind of counseling they do over there. 
The administration misleads students into regarding the teaching of the Church as an arbitrary restriction on a well­ordered inclination. And it dis­courages students from using potentially helpful resources. The Student Union Board stated last term to the Trustees: "[W]e ask that Campus Ministry invite Courage to campus. This organi­zation was founded by Catholic priests to minister to the homo­sexual community. Courage is truly pastoral: It presents partici­pants with the teachings of the Catholic Church while ministering to them through group support and loving care, bringing them into the Catholic community." 
Don't hold your breath waiting for our leaders to allow Courage on campus. When the Maritain Center sponsored a series of speakers in the fall of 1997, including Father John Harvey, the founder of Courage, Campus Ministry and the Counseling Center took Observer ads to dis­courage attendance. The efforts of Courage and similar groups are politically incorrect. 
The administration's orthodoxy of political correctness prevails over the pastoral needs of stu­dents. "(D]eparture from the Church's teaching or silence about it, in an effort to provide pastoral care," says the 1986 Letter, "is neither caring nor pas­toral. Only what is true can ulti­mately be pastoral. The neglect of the Church's position prevents homosexual men and women from receiving the care they need and deserve." 
And it leads to distorted ideas on the nature of the human per­son, marriage and the family. One may fairly wonder how the folks at Campus Ministry and the Counseling Center would have voted on Proposition 22. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

We should practice forgiveness 
I just wanted to write a littlP note of encour­agement to the "waterboy." We all have our moments in life that we wish we could take back. I know I have had my share. Evervone makes mistakes and the only thing that ·we can do is realize them, admit it and try to go on as best we can. To everyone else, give the poor guy a break; no one can do anything about it now and he was not the only one who threw an object at that game. Let's all forgive him and move on with life. I believe he has been morB than rrncessarily punished with every student. faculty member and alumnus calling for his head on a platter. 
It's a pretty sad situation when the University has to provide measures to protect him from the student body. We are Christians! Let's practice that fundamental concept our faith is based on: forgiveness. 
Amanda Reyes 
Senior, Lewis Hall 
March 4, 2000 

Alumni criticism is a disservice 
How ashamed we, as a student body, should be of ourselves. Misconduct at basketball games, poor displays of sportsmanship and self-control and immaturity in the national spotlight have tainted our image. We are no longer the "MVPs." We have let ourselves, our school, our alumni and our historical reputa­tion down. 
This doesn't seem like a particularly wrong statement to make. In fact, I am willing to concede, to a large degree, that we, the Notre Dame student body, are lacking in the behav­ior befitting of a university with such a histor­ical and reknowned reputation. Notre Dame students have brought a lot of shame to the University through their recent actions at sporting events out of a simple lack of respect for the opponents, the nature of sportsmanship and the ideals of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
This issue has 
been debated in ' our school paper for two weeks now. Granted, I, above all people, am will­ing to admit the big mistakes that were made. I am willing to respect the fact that each person has and is entitled to give their opin­ion. However, there is acer­tain irony to thP. recent out­lashes in the Viewpoint letters to the editor. 

l was particularly shocked by the words of one author in Friday's paper. Mark Laug~.man must have thought his words of anger would either scare good behavior into the student body, ri.le lots of support from alumni or turn the student body against the "waterboy" to the point of his death (which I hear is almost a reality, unfortunately). 
What I don't understand is this: Did Mr. Laughman really make his point through all of that immaturity? I don't think so. I think Mr. Laughman is ridiculously immature (sorry, sir, I have an opinion too). 
Using kiddy words to criticize an obviously immature act by a student is still immature. If you go to work, sir, at your high and mighty job, and your peers from rival universities jeering at you bothers you so much that you feel the need to write such a hateful letter to our student body, you should seek counseling. Professional counseling. 
I, along with a number of my friends who wear clothes bought on sale at JCPenney, live in the near east side of Cleveland, Ohio, and pay out of own our pockets to go to school here. We don't appreciate your ignorance of the lifestyles of some of the students here at 
Notre Dame. Generalizing us through your critique of the "waterboy" is a shame to those of us who feel we work hard and embody the strong tradi­tion Notre Dame has laid before us. You give all the 
blame to the "water­boy" for ruining everything about 
Notre Dame you 
• love. I can respect that he destroyed some of that by his actions. However, 

sir, I must tell you now that you blew it for me. I HAD faith in all the alumni. The shame I see here is that you were ever given a diploma from Notre Dame to begin with. Please understand that I will not make the same mistake Mr. 
Laughman has made. I do not believe he is an accurate representation of alumni body on the whole. My personal experiences with alumni through summer service projects, community task forces and public relations have been overwhelmingly positive. 
I fee] that Mr. Laughman, if nothing else, docs a deep disservice to the Notre Dame alumni by the image he has created for him­self as a Notre Dame alum. 
John Bauters Sophomore Keenan Hall March 3, 2000 


page 12 Wednesday, March 8, 2000 
Neat places to go on campus 
While going to school here you should visit the neat places here on campus. and there are lots. The first is the big tree down by the lake that you can sit in. It used to bP. called 
Dead Dog Tree. This is because back in 1789. before the sr.hool was here. them used to be a farm here.called McWackentavern's 
Farm. 
And McWacken­

tavern's wife got Scott Little 
really lonely during 
the days, so she got 
nine dogs to keep 
her company. A just a litlle 
raccoon bit one of 
them. and soon all 
nine dogs got 
rabies. Then the farmers hung them from 
that tree to remind them ofjust bow great 
dogs are. 
Another neat place to go is out behind Carroll Hall. If you are there at the right time you can see helicopters land out on the helicopter pad. 0000000. If you've never seen a helicopter land you don't know what you're missing. It wouldn't hurt to bring some grapefruits and corn too and throw it at the propeller. 
If you're feeling adventurous. you'll visit the underwater city in St. Mary's Lake. Not many people know about it. Back when Father Edward Sorin was here, there used to be this village of tiny people that lived back in the woods. They would come out at night dressed up like opossums and steal shoes. Well. Father Sorin could only take so much of that, so he dug a giant hole and filled it with the tiny people during the day, while they were sleeping. And then he filled the hole with water that he hosed in from Lake Michigan. The tiny people, known as "Hushkins," adapted to the water and started a fantastic fantasy play land and renamed themselves the "Wetkins." Check it out. 
There are more fun activities bv the lakes. At around 2 a.m. on any night when the moon isn't showing, and it's not rain­ing, you can find a lot of geese on the dock at St. Joseph's Lake. If you find their leader, Sampson, you will be in for a pleas­ant surprise. You will know that you have found Sampson because he is the only goose that knows English. If you ask polite­ly and if you bring a lot of rope. you are in for a wild ride. Each goose will put some of the rope in their mouths and fly you up, up, up into the night sky. Look out' 
Also on St. Joseph's Lake you may run into the famous laughing duck. Late at night Ulysses gets out his inflatable chair and his inflatable TV holder and sits out on the lake watching episodes of "Seinfeld" that someone from Lewis gives him. He is quite a riot, but just listening to his funny laugh better be enough to satisfy you, because if he sees you watching him he will fly at you and bite your neck off. 
One last thing, if'you ever need to get your bike tires pumped up, there is a great place near Stepan tfolds to do it. There is an automatic pump. It looks like a minia­ture gas pump. You can also eat the air yourself I am pretty sure it is super-puri­fied air, and that you .:an raise your IQ if you eat enough. If you put the pressure on high enough ..you can also see through walls. 
For all those of you interested, the Notre Dame Sand Dollar club is going to meet starting after spring break. Have a great spring break, and remember even if you're not going some place fun or exotic. you·re only a good book away from having the time of your life! 
The views expressed in this column are that ofthe author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 


By BRIDGET MAHONEY 
Scene W ricer 
Stanford Hall boasts a long list of familiar names. Jarious Jackson, John Merandi. Kory Minor and Bobby Howard are among those, as well as the players for the successful Bookstore Basketball team, Primetime. 
Referred to as "The Cinderblock Palace" or "Bomb Shelter," it was built in 1957, some speculate as a sort of nuclear shelter with its 18­inch thick cinderblock walls. Ask 
anyone and they'll prob­ably compare the rooms to those in a prison. And like being attached at the hip, Stanford Hall shares a lobby and a chapel with Keenan Hall. yet each has its own set of doors. Being neither an "old" dorm nor a "new" dorm, this residence hall is not considered an architectural beautv and does not possess a·ll the luxuries of Mod Quad and West Quad. Air con­ditioning exists only in a few spots snrh as the chapel, and they only recently installed laun­dry machines last year. 
However, its residents can enjoy its prime loca­tion next to L'niversity Health Services and the cadavers lying in the depths of Haggar Hall. Psychology majors and the perpetually sick would be lucky to live there. 
It is also the home of approximately 280 men. going by the nickname, 

the Stanford Griffins. They were known as the Stanford Studs until last year when they voted to change it in honor of a beloved past rector, father Robert Griffin. 
Now their rector Father Tom Gaughan leads and supports them in more ways than one. Besides emphasizing an involvement in ser­vice activities, he plays goalie for the dorm's hockey team. "He's a lively guy, a spirited dude," says hall co-president Eric Glass. 
To replace the past tradition of "Mr. Stanford," Father Tom origi­nated the After Hours Benefit Bash, 

activities, according to Glass. "It's lots of bad news for freshmen." 
It was also bad news for Father Griffin's dog, Corby, according to what seems to be the only story passed on through the years. Though, no one is sure how true it is. As the legend goes, Father Griffin owned this dog who could always be seen following him around. And then one day. some Keenan resi­dents took the dog and threw it down the trash­shoot, eventually killing it. (What a nice story to pass on.) 
In contrast, Stanford isn't particularly obsflssed with proving its pride in the faces of other dorms like those with their boasted tradi­tions and loud displays. Says junior Pete McCall, 

Photo courtesy of www.nd.edu/-stanford "Most are kind of laid 
Father Tom Gaughan takes a break from his busy sched­back and don't care 
ule as Stanford's rector. much about image." 
which had a successful second run this year in raising money for orphans in Chile. An all-night event, there were live campus bands and plenty of food for all of campus. 
Other traditions include StudVegas, a theme dance with gambling. Then there is Man Week, a week long of macho competition in twinkie eating, intersection basket­ball, bowling and arm wrestling. A less desirable tradition for those born in winter is "laking" in which guys are thrown into the nearby lakes on their birthdays. 
And the freshmen are also subject 
to such antics. With 
many pranks and hazing 


Wednesday, March 8, 2000 page 13 
TV NEWS 
Internet helps fans 'Get Real' 
Associated Press 
ClPar across r,yberspar.P, a message resounds; "Tho eight will be great!" 
As catch phrases go, this may not pack thf' punr.h of' "Fifty-four forty, or fight!" or even "Lose :rn pounds in 45 days'" 
But when thfl fox family drama "Get Heal" returns Wednesday at 9 p.m. EST for its eight-week. do-or-die run, a Web­rallied brigade r.alled the (ict Realists will be beating the drums as never before to save the struggling series. 
llear them? "The eight will be grPat!" 
:rhe Gel_ Healisls are the latest example of how viewers can tap the Internet to share their passion for a TV show -and ~·orge a connection wiLh that show beyond ,1ust watching it. 
"It has brought us together," savs Bob Grippo, a data processor in Elmont, N.Y., who coinPd the group's currPnt battle cry. 
The campaign began right after the show's SPept. 8 premiere. whP-n a handful of' "Get Heal" initiates logged onto its Fox­run "official" Web site. Their enthusiastic posts declared them charter fans of this multigenerational drama about the lively. oftrn troubled Green household. 
Troubled'.? The wonderful "Get Heal" was quickly in trouble. too. Crushing com­petition such as "The West Wing" and "Drew Carey" meant most Nielsen families were tuned elsewhere at that hour. It had dismal ratings and little prospect for sur­vival. 
Or did il'.? 
"A small group of us, maybe five. were going. 'Crnon. this show just cannot be ranceled'," Grippo remembers. "We became friends very fast." 
"The Internet is a great place," observes another "Get Real" fan. Beckv Thursam "ll gets people together who" ordinaril; wouldn't meet in person." 
Thursam had checked out "Get Real" only because of its star. Debrah ~~~rentino, but she immediately liked it. 
Ihe show struck a chord in me," she says by phone from East Lansing, Mich. 
,~ nu~sing major at Michigan State University and the self-taught designer of a Debrah Farentino Web site, Thursam volunteered to build a "Get Rea\" fan site. In days it was up and running (http://members. aol .com/getrealfandu b/l. 
As with scores of other sites devoted to TV series, "getrealfandub" features cast photos. an episode guide. a 200-plus membership roll 
But there's also this site-specific call to arms: "Keep telling your familv and friends, tell your next-door neighbor", have 
NIELSEN RATINGS 

your mom discuss the show at the PTA meeting, put up fliers in the communitv center -anything that will get the shmv recognized." 
Also: lfoach out to fox execs with e-mail and petitions. 
"It's something we monitor and definite­ly pay attention to." VOWS Fox network boss Doug Herzog, who has stuck with "Get Heal," bringing it back from February Sweeps exile in part because of its Web faithful. 
"This is a small but dfldicated group," he says of the Get Realists. "They let us know there is something going on out thi>re. They helped hep hope alive." 
"H's really cool," says cast member Jesse Eisenberg, who occasionallv visits the Web sit_e ai~d gets a ki~k from reading the enthusiastic posts. With that sort of affirmation. "you can really save money on psychiatrists," he quips. 
Playing nerdy Kenny Green, the 16­year-old actor will be showcased this week when his character contracts a life­threatening illness. 13y the end of the hour, he can expect to find kudos on the "Get Real" message board. 
"I come from a theater background in New York," Eisenberg savs. "There, if the rev!ews are good, you stay open. On TV, reviews matter less; it's more about rat­ings. But if you build a fan base you can build ratings. The Web site reallv helps." 
The "Get Real" stars not only· track the efforts or the Get Realists, but also cheer them on. 
Ann:3 H~th_away (who plays Meghan, Kenny s big sister) has typed in her thank yous. and Grippo reports that Eric Christian Olsen (who plays Kenny's free­wheeling older brother Cameron) posted a message that likened the Get Realists' devotion to the unrelenting spirit of the Maccabees two thousand years ago. 
A little more recently, CBS' Western melodrama "The Magnificent Seven" spurred some 100 faithful to wage an e­mail campaign and even pony up $1,000 fo_r ~n ad in Daily Variety (" Return Wmnmg Show to Viewers!"). 
CBS heard this plea of two years ago and. indeed, the series was back on the air the following winter. Unfortunately, ~fter . t_hose .. few weeks' reprieve, 
Mag111f1cent was done in for good bv continued low ratings. • 
Now, boosted by its e-support, can "Get Real" finally catch on with viewers and win a second-season pickup? 
"The next eight weeks are critical," says Thursam. But as any Get Realistic will tell you, if enough watch those eight, well, that would be great! 
Show 
1
. Who Wants to be a Millionaire 

2. 
Who Wants to be a Millionaire 

3. 
Who Wants to be a Millionaire 

4. 
42nd Annual Grammy Awards 

5. 
Who Wants to be a Millionaire 6. 60 Minutes 


7. 
Friends 

8. 
Law and Order 

9. 
The Drew Carey Show 



10. Everybody Loves Raymond 
Rating 
20.7 20.0 18.8 18.4 17.5 13.9 1Z.6 1Z.5 12.0 11.6 
Total Viewers 
21.0 million 
20.2 million 
19.0 million 
19.0 million 
18.0 million 
14.0 million 
13.0 million 
13.0 million 
12.1 million 11. 7 million 
Source: Associated Press 

SCENE ASKS 
What are you doing for spring break? 

'Tm going to Wisconsin to visit my aunt and uncle and their six kids on a hundred-acre farm." 
Kate Middlenas junior, Le Mans Hall 
'Tm driving to Clearwater, Fla., with my six favorite people to hang out on the beach and throw my game at some beautiful women. " 
Steve Karatis sophomore, Zahm Hall 



"/ am going to Vail to ski, -relax and have some Jun." 
Joe Cordi freshman, Dillon Hall 
'Tm going to New York because my friend is interviewing for an internship. I also have Jamity there, and plus, New York is the bomb." 
Katie Trnka junior, Le Mans Hall 



'Tm going to play ultimate Frisbee in Savannah, Ga., for a tournament." 
Paco Miller junior, Knott Hall 
"We 're going to Daytona Beach, Fla., for the cold beer and hot men." 
Jamie Stouffer Holy Cross 
Mary Campione 
Le Mans Hall 


Photo pell by NELLIE WILLIAMS/ The Observer 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 8, 2000 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

New tournalllent sites proposed 
Huskies win 
Big East tourney 
. Bird scores 18 to lead UConn over Rutgers 
Associated Pre•s 
STORRS, Conn. 
Sue Bird scored 18 points as top-ranked Connecticut won its seventh straight Rig East tournament title, defeating No. 8 Rutgers 79-59 on Tuesday night. 
UConn (30-1) has won 11 regular-season titles and eight tournament championships since the 1988-89 season. The Huskies' 19 titles arc the most in the country won by any women's or men's program. Georgetown's men arc second with 13 titles. 
It was only the second appearance in the title game for the Scarlet Knights (22-7). They lost the 1998 final to UConn, 67-58, at the Louis Brown Athletic Center at Rutgers. This win gives UConn a three-game sweep over Rutgers this season. 
UConn overcame spotty shooting in the first half, hit­ting 17-of-20 from the floor for 85 percent in the second half. 
The Huskies never trailed during the game. Bird hit a 3­pointer with 17 seconds gone in the first half to kick off a 7 ­2 run, however neither team settled into an offensive flow in the half. 
Rutgers shot 28 percent, hit­ting 9-of-32. Conneticut didn't fare much better, hitting only 8-of-27 for 29 percent. They did hold on to the lead, howev­er, with 10-of-14 shooting from the foul line. 
The physical play during the game resulted in a combined 18 fouls in the first half. Tamika Williams made 8-of-12 free throws. And for nearly 10 minutes, that was all of UConn's offense. Swin Cash's layup at 15:12 was the last field goal until a Williams' layup with 5:20 left. In between, the Huskies wern 7­of-8 from the line. 
UConn got its up-tempo game untracked in the second half and cured its shooting woes with an opening 12-2 burst, hitting 5-of-6 in the first five minutes. Rutgers was 1­of-5 in the same span and had four turnovers. 
UConn's Svetlana Abrosimova, who was score­less in the first half, had eight of her 12 points in the first six minutes. Cash had 13 points and nine rebounds for Uconn. Conneticut dominated the boards, 41-27. 
UConn shut down Rutgers' Shawnetta Stewart using six different players to guard the Knights· scoring leader. She was held to just nine points in the course of the game, six below her average. 
Tasha Pointer and Usha Gilmore had 13 points apiece for Rutgers. 
Rutgers reached the final with wins over Villanova and Notre Dame. Connecticut advanced by beating St. John's and Boston College. 
Asso,iated Press 

DES MOINES. Iowa 
The NCAA womp,n's basket­ball tournament could start having neutral sites f'or first­and second-round games as early as next season. 
A proposal to select those sites in advance has been approved by the NCAA women's basketball commit­tee and the championship committee. The proposal is now before the management council, which meets in April. 
The proposal calls for the new format to start with the 2001 tournament. 
"Certainly the management council or the NCAA board of directors could change any proposal that comes in from any sports committee," Bernadette McGlade, who chairs the basketball commit­tee, said Tuesday. "I don't know if it will stay the same, but that's what we recom­mended." 
Currently, the first-and second-round games are played in the arenas of the 16 highest-seeded teams in the tournament. Those sites are not known until pairings are announced on Selection Sunday, five days before the first games. 
NCAA officials always have been uncomfortable with that setup because of the home­court advantage, all 16 home teams advanced to the regional semifinals last year, but felt it was necessary to attract crowds. 
If the new setup is adopted, the 16 sites would be put up for bid and announced sever­al months in advance. Many 
"Eight semifinals and four finals back to back certainly is a tough day, even for the best of basketballJans. I think that is one ofthe priorities we will have the next time we nego­tiate the contract." 
Bernadette McGlade 
assistant commissioner 

of the traditional powers that draw big crowds, such as Connecticut, Tennessee and Texas Tech, likely would hid for games and still would end up playing at home. 
But games also could be placed in municipal arenas that are not the home court for college teams or they could be awarded to schools that might not make the tour­nament, thus ensuring a neu­tral court for all participants. A school could not serve as a host for more than two years in a row. 
McGlade, an assistant com­missioner for the Atlantic Coast Conference, said awarding the sites in advance would give those locations time to promote the games and draw crowds. 
"It's the same thing with football bowl games," she said. "They have no idea who is going to be in the bowl game, but ticket sales go on. They're selling to the fan. That's where we are in women's basketball. We're selling to fans. 
"There's a lot of fans of the sport out there and they're no Ion ger just going to see the home team play." 
McGlade also said that when the next television con­tract is negotiated, the com­mittee will urge that the regional semifinals and finals be played on four days instead of two. 
ESPN, which holds the con­tract through the 2002 tour­nament, shows all eight regional semifinals on a Saturday and the four region­al finals on Monday. In the men's tournament, the semi­finals are split between a Thursday and Friday and the finals between Saturday and Sunday. 
"Eight semifinals and four finals back to hack certainly is a tough day, even for the best of basketball fans," McGlade said. "I think that is one of the priorities we will have the next time we negoti­ate the contract." 
Lim DeLuca, senior vice president for program devel­opment, said that point would be negotiable. 
"When we roll up our sleeves with the NCAA women's representatives, we will deeply look at ways to increase the potential audi­ence, and one of them clearly is working on that second weekend of the tournament," Deluca said. 
Deluca noted that one rea­son the schedule evolved the way it has was to avoid com­peting with the men's games and the Academy Awards presentations. 
"Those arc two fairly signif­icant objects," he said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cencs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer resrrves the right to edit all classifieds for conmu without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

The South Bend Parks & Look! New Home for Rent 3/4 Lesbian? Gay? Christian? Looking Hey Kelle, this one's for you babe! Recreation Department (The City of Bedroom 3 Bath, Cathedral tor others who are trying to balance South Bend) is currently accepting Ceilings, the same? Tara, hope you're feeling better
NOTICES WANTED 

applications for golf rangers, con-Fireplace, Ref rig, Range, Disp, Dish, Join our confidential Wednesday today! 
cessions, beverage cart drivers Washer & Dryer.Gas heat/ CIA, 2-evening conversation. Call tom THE COPY SHOP ASPIRING WRITERS! (must be 21) and other seasonal car garage.Family room.Close to 1-4112 or tami 1-3016 for info. Oh what a beautiful morning. Lafortune Student Center www.maincampus.com seeks stu-help. Pay ranges from $6.00-$8.00 Campus. Store Hours dents for stories ranging from per hour. Apply at the County City Congratulations, Joe Mueller! We're Oh what a beautiful day. Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid Politics/Sex/Culture/Opinions Bldg. 14th floor EOE 616-683-5038 proud of you! Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm $25 per story' 219-232-4527 -------------------------------------Hello Katie Metz, my valentine. Sat: Noon-6:00pm Email us at: 219-340-1844 Turner, Sun: Noon-Mid earn@maincampus.com Get well dude. We need you in Libby is just too cool to be
FOR RENT

Free Pick-Up & Delivery! Vermont. mentioned! Call 631-COPY FLOOR HOCKEY OFFICIALS We're open late so your order will ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE FOR SALE Turner, Vermont is a small state. It Merideth, did you ever know that be done on time! Officials needed for Campus AND CLOSE needs you and preferably a copy of yo'ure my hero? 
Floor Hockey. It's good money and http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ AASHTO Standards Guide Book. GRADUATION ROOMS AVAIL-good times! email:mmmrentals@aof.com New Phone Card You're everything I wish I could be ABLE! Experience helpful, but we do 232-2595 886 mins. $20 Turner, I'm not going to Vermont Need hotel rooms for graduation train everybody. Attend the 258-4805 or 243-9361 with you, but I still want you to get Karen, just nod and smile 
weekend? mandatory officials meeting on better. There are still rooms available in Wed. 3/8 @ 7pm in Rolf's Available Summer '00 & '00-01. 95 NISSAN SENTRA,4DR. 69K -A shout-out from M'Shan Molly -Way to go. I'm so proud of the Michiana area tor graduation Sports Rec. Center or contact 4-student rental house... Security AIR.NEW TIRES. you!!! 2000. Brandon Leimbach @ System. Air Conditioned, Laundry .. t OWNER. Anne Marie -Thanks for driving For more information, please con-Dave EXCEL.COND. my car ... and me to Heartland. Hey Kristin and Kate and Lauren. tact Anthony Travel at 1x7080 or in 631-3536 291-2209. 291-2528. Even if you did it w/o the lights. Good Luck on exams! the Lafortune basement. 
Noreen -Careful w/ the ME job. Lui you Nichole! WEB DESIGNER NEEDED B'NB REGISTRY It's delicate!
PERSONAL 

Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls National Publication has opening 219-291-7153 Meesh is fabulous. Research. http://www. for designer to help improve and You'll be great though! geocities.com:80/Athens/ maintain existing sites. 277-0033 www.thecommentator.com Julie is my hero Rhodes/7031/deadsea. html www.nkn.com B&B for ND grad & Football KT Vales -Here's your classified. 
3 miles. 4 rooms. How do you like ii? Better than a We'll be back. USED BOOKS! 30% off caver-287-4545 Need help with a proiect? night at Heartland? price. Pandoras books@ notre ATTENTION SOUND ENGINEERS Wyoming is quite possibly my dame+howard,233-2342 12am-5 Local Sound Company has open-HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed-Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING Ale• time to rekindle our triendshipl favorite state. 
ings tor experienced FOH engi-room, $1000/month. 2) 4-bedroom, services are available at neers and stage hands. Call 277-$900/month. 3) 3-bedroom, $700. THE COPY SHOP Actually. time for Daytona, baby! Amy is my favorite sister. 0032 www.thesoundcompany.com Call Bill at 675-0776. w0·11 make Lafortune Student Center We will destroy that place. 
LOST & FOUND 

almost any changes to the houses, Call 631-COPY Ee+ is very much missed. 
GRAPHIC LAYOUT Ali -back that thang up! FOUND International racing publication has 1721 Rerick 3 Bedroom, Family Gummi bears, bouncing here and Gold Wedding Band w/ inscribed opening for computer graphics lay-room with Fireplace, Fenced Fax it fast! Agnes -you can too. there arid everywhere. date outside bookstore out person. Looking for fresh excit-Backyard, CIA Gas Heat, Across Fax ii fast! Call 219-634-1892 ing designs to improve established From Park, Very Safe Fax it fast! Gina -togetherness actually hap-Silly. 
magazine. Flexible hours. 277-0033 Neighborhood Sending & Receiving pened!Wow! FOUND: GOLD & SILVER TWO-$995/mo. 12 mo. lease Physics was created to make life TONE WATCH IN FIELD BEHIND Editor/proof reader needed to work Calf 232-4527 Close to Campus THE COPY SHOP Shout out to the booty shakers. miserable. O'NEILL ON MONDAY, 3/6. with writers for national publication. 219-340-1844 Lafortune Student Center Even though you didn't play, you 
CALL KATHLEEN 4-0562. Flexible hours. Call 277-0033 616-683-5038 Our Fax# (219) 631-3291 still rock. Good luck next time! G'night. 
Wednesday, March 8, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
An Open Letter to the Notre Dame 
Community from the University's 
Task Force on Anti-sweatshop Initiatives 
The University of Notre Dame has been the national leader on the anti-sweatshop issue for more than three years. Notre Dame was the first university to establish a code of conduct for its licensees and Notre Dame is the only university that actually has monitored facto­ries where its products are manufactured. 
More recently, Notre Dame has initiated a pilot program in Mexico and Central America that will incorporate human rights and labor activists, Church officials and other representatives of local nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) into the University's monitoring pro­gram. These representatives will help to determine which factories are to be monitored, they will be active participants in the monitoring process, and they will recommend appropriate follow-up actions when problems arc found. 
The University also has adopted the strongest provision of any college or university with respect to freedom of association and the rights of workers to organize. As this provision is implemented, Notre Dame products no longer will be produced in countries such as China which provide no legal right to organize. 
This semester, the Task Force on Anti-sweatshop Initiatives is addressing further issues, notably the living wage and women's rights, and will make additional recommendations on these issues to Father Malloy. 
The most recent anti-swea_tshop issue to emerge involves the Fair Labor Association (FLA), of which Notre Dame is a member, and a proposed new anti-sweatshop organization, the Workers Rights Consortium (WRC), which the University has been asked to join. On sev­eral campuses, sit-ins have been staged on this issue, with activists demanding that the institutions withdraw from the FLA and opt instead for memhership in the proposed WRC. From the beginning, the University has adopted a broad-based, inclusive approach to anti-sweatshop organizations. In addition to becoming a member of the Fair Labor Association, Notre Dame has joined with Harvard to organize an initiative that now includes the University of California system, the University of Michigan, and Ohio State University. Notre Dame also has joined an initiative of the full Ivy Group of Schools an~ is playing a leading role in forming a consortium of colleges and universities to address the living wage issue. 
The WRC at present is in the conceptual stage. An organizational meeting is to be held in April and the Anti-sweatshop Task Force has formally requested that the WRC allow one of our student members to attend this meeting to gather information. The University will consider WRC membership in the same manner as it has considered membership in other organizations. It will consider the WRC's philoso­phy, plan of action, organizational structure, membership requirements, budgeting and staffing, and other pertinent matters. It is worth not­ing that several of the institutions which so far have agreed to join the WRC have done so "conditionally," precisely because so many aspects of the proposed organization remain to be determined. In fact, it is not even clear at this point what "conditional" membership means. 
Notre Dame will consider joining the WRC, but will need more information concerning the WRC's proposals before it can make a reasoned judgment on membership. At the same time, the University does not believe that membership in the WRC and the FLA are mutually exclusive. Nor does Brown University, which agreed to membership in the WRC while asserting that it will "remain a fully committed member of the FLA." Notre Dame chose to join the FLA after careful consideration and, since joining, has played a leadership role in its university advisory council. Carol Kaesebier, the University's vice president and general counsel, is one of the organization's founding cochairs and has been instrumen­tal in its growth to more than 130 colleges and universities. At the same time, the FLA is less than a year old and hasn't yet had time to prove or disprove its potential. The University's goal for the FLA is to see its members, including its industry members, attack the sweat­shop problem on much the same basis as the University is, and the University remains committed to achieving this goal. 
In announcing his university's decision to the join the WRC, Gordon Gee, Brown's president, said, "I am willing to have Brown join the WRC as a founding member. However, the university will remain a member only ifit becomes clear, through the further development of the consortium and the FLA. that the two organizations can operate in a complementary fashion." Should they be forced to choose between the organizations, Gee said, "We will choose the organization that makes the greatest effort to work collaboratively with the other." Given this strong statement by one of the first universities to join the WRC, there clearly is no reason for Notre Dame to believe that joining the WRC would in any way require the University to leave the FLA. 
First and foremost, Notre Dame will continue to focus its energies on its own anti-sweatshop initiatives. The initiatives already put in place by the University are well beyond the progress to date of any other college or university or organization of schools addressing the sweatshop issue. While the University will continue to investigate and pursue opportunities as a member of various groups concerned with the issue, its priority will be to carry out and expand its own efforts to strengthen its code of conduct, increase its monitoring activities, establish its pilot monitoring program, and pursue new initiatives with respect to the living wage, women's rights and other sweatshop-relat­ed concerns. 
Task Force on Anti-sweatshop Initiatives William P. Hoye, chair Maria Canalas Melissa Conboy Richard W. Conklin James J. Lyphout Dennis Moore Micah Murphy James Paladino Thomas R. Swartz Lee Tavis Todd D. Whitmore 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 8, 2000 
NBA 

Henderson, Floyd ejected from game 
Denver pay for its fouling as 32-14. half with a steal and a toma­
Associated Press 

the Pacers defeated the The Pacers got back into hawk dunk, and Ward gave Nuggets for their 24th consec­with 27 points from their New York a 70-54 lead by dri­CJIICAGO utive home victory. bench and trailed 49-47 at ving past Mike Bibby on an iso­
Say this for thc Atlanta 

The Pacers overcame 39 per­hall"lime. lation play and converting anHawks and the Chicago Bulls: cent shooting from the field by easy layup.
They know how to make a 

outscoring Denver 23-6 from Ewing lert for good with 1 :38 
meaningless game interesting. Knicks 111, Grizzlies 86

the free throw line. It was remaining in the third quarter
Elton Brand scored 31 points Charlie Ward made an

Denver's ninth straight loss to and the Knicks ahead by 19.
and Randy Brown came immediate difference in his

the Pacers, a run that dates Sprewell reached 20 points for
through with a huge 3-pointer return from the injured list,

back to March 31, 1995. tlrn 27th time this season when
and two free throws Tuesday showing the Knicks how much

Antonio McDyess had 2] he hit a corner jumper for a 
as the Bulls beat the Hawks in they missed a true playmaker.

points for Denver, which outre­92-68 lead with 9:08 left. 
an ugly game featuring two New York operwd a big early

bounded the Pacers 60-43, Houston scornd 20 or more for
ejections and six terhnical lead and cruised past the

with Kcon Cla,rk pulling down the 31st time 
fouls. Vancouver Grizzlies. 
a career-high 22. The Nuggets
Chris Carr scored six points Ward hit Larry Johnson with 
had 21 offensive rebounds, but

in the last eight minutes, a crisp pass on a fast break Wizards 90,
they converted the second­
including two free throws with just under four minutes into 

Tlmberwolves 86
chance opportunities into just
44 seconds left to seal the the game, and Juhnson turned

12 points. After a succession of horren­
it into a dunk for a 13-0 lead.

game. dous away games throughout
Indiana trailed by as many
The victory snapped an The Knicks stayed comfortably 

January and February, the
as 18 in the first quarter and
eight-game losing streak for in front for the rest of the night Wizards are suddenly the kings overcame a 10-point deficit in

the Bulls, who won despite as they ended a two-game los­of the road in March.

the third to tie the game for
shooting a dismal 36 percent. ing streak with ease, shooting 
Losers of 15 straight awaythe first time at 67 on a 3­

Atlanta lost its third straight a season-high 62 percent. games through the end of last
pointer by Reggie Miller. He
despite six players in double Latrrll Sprewell and Allan 

month, Washington won its
had been scoreless until he hit
digits. Alan Henderson led the Houston scored 22 points

a jumper to reduce Denver's second ronsecutive road game,
Hawks with 15 points before apiece, Patrick Ewing had 21 

outscoring the Minnesota
lead to 65-64 with 1:52 left in
fouling out with 8: 16 left. and Johnson and John Wallace 

Timberwolves by 12 in the
the quarter.
Dikembe Mutombo had 12 added 13 each. 

final period to win.
Jalen Rose led the Pacers
points and 21 rebounds. Ward contributed five points, 
Trailing by eight, the
with 19 points and nine assists. 
Henderson unraveled with six assists and a team-high 

Wizards started the final peri­Five Pacers finished in double
his last foul, and he took the seven rebounds to help the 

od with a 14-2 run to take the Hawks right along with him. Knicks, the NBA's worst lead for the first time in thefigures, with Travis Best scor­
ing 13 off the bench. 
With the Hawks clinging to a rebounding team, beat an

A 3-pointer by Sam Perkins half. Reserve Tracy Murray
one-point lead, he was ·called opponent on the boards for the scored a game-high 17 for the
gave Indiana, which hasn'tlost

for his sixth foul on a pass into first time in eight games. New Wizards, including 10 in the
at home since Nov. 25, its first

the post to Dickey Simpkins. York outrebounded Vancouver fourth.
lead at 80-79. Nick Van Exel

He argued the call for about 20 39-28. Minnesota, which saw an
put Denver ahead for the last 
Ward has been on the
seconds before his teammates 

eight-point lead become
time with a jumper with 5:54 a 
guided him back to the bench. injured list since Feb. 19 with a seven-point deficit in the firstto go. 

He continued muttering, and broken little finger on his right 10 minutes of the fourth. wasDerrick McKey then hit four

referee Ken Mauer hit him hand, an injury he suffered 

led by Kevin Garnett and Wally
free throws to put Indiana
with his second technical. against Charlotte on Feb. 7 but 

Szczerbiak, each with 26ahead to stay while the
Henderson had picked up his continued to play with. Coach points.

Nuggets were going three min­
first technical in the third Jeff Van Gundy used a big 
Minnesota had won seven ofutes without a field goal. 
starting backcourt of Sprewell

quarter. its last eight, but had fallen in
Miller's 3-pointer made it 87­

It was the second ejection of 81, but Raef LaFrentz, who and Houston during Ward's seven of its last eight vs. the night. Bulls coach Tim absence, and the team went Washington. Early on, the
scored 17, hit a 3-pointer. Best
Floyd got tossed in the first just 5-4. It had trouble getting 

Wizards set the stage for
then drove the length of the
quarter for arguing two no­into an offensive rhythm and another upset.

court for a layup.
calls on a Bulls possession. broke 90 points only one time Washington led by as manyThe Pacers were 23-of-32

Fred Hoiberg made the tech­during that span. as five points on two separate
from the free throw line, but

nical foul shot, and Brown hit a All those offensive problems occasions in the first quarter
missed five straight with a 
rare 3-pointer to give the Bulls were nowhere to be found on the strength of seven pointschance to put the game away

a 74-71 lead. Jason Terry against the Grizzlies and their by Mitch Richmond. It was notin the final minutes. Best then

scored for the Hawks, but the soft defense, as New York had until the final minute of the
ended the slump by making his 
Bulls came right back with no trouble maintaining a dou­opening period that the Wolves

second attempt with 9.4 sec­
baskets from Carr and Brand. ble-digit lead throughout. 

took their first iead. 
onds to go. 
and two foul shots from Brown Ewing had nine points and But Minnesota rallied beforeDenver opened an 18-point
for the 80-73 lead with 3: 30 Sprewell eight in the first quar­the half to lead by five at thelead in the first quarter when

left. ter, and Ewing was up to 17 on break. The Timberwolves werethe Pacers shot only 22 percent

Carr put the game away with 7 -for-8 shooting by halftime as paced by Anthony Peeler's
(4-of-18) from the field. A 
a 9-foot jumper with 49 sec­the Knicks moved ahead 53­eight-point second quarter and

three-point play by Chris
onds left and the two free 37. 

Garnett's 14-point first half. 
Gatling put the Nuggets ahead
throws, which gave Chicago an Sprewell started the second 
86-79 lead. 
With the two worst teams in the Central Division, this game didn't have much meaning. And for most of the night, it looked more like a WWF match than a basketball game. 
Floyd didn't even make it through the first quarter. On a possession with about 
2:55 left, Henderson hacked Simpkins as Simpkins went up for a layup while Dikembe Mutombo wrapped his arms around Brown's neck and facP. 
Floyd started yelling, and referee Tim Donaghy quickly gave him a technical. Floyd kept screaming, following Donaghy around the floor. so Donaghy ejected him -the first ejection of the season for Floyd, who was a screamer and a coat thrower at Iowa State. 
Atlanta's Lorenzen Wright picked up a technical with 
10:35 left in the second. Six minutes later, Bulls assistant Phil Johnson got one while sit­ting on the bench. 
Despite all the technicals, only 35 fouls were called in the game 
Pacers 90, Nuggets 89 
Indiana, the league's leading free throw shooters, made 

A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Force ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 

Undergrads + Graduate Students 
• 
Fulfill a distribution or general education requirement 

• 
Accelerate progress towards your degree or minor 

• 
Live on campus -35 miles south of San Francisco 

• 
Over 200 classes offered in more than 50 departments


Smart move. The whole 
concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around 

Courses such as: Physics, Economics, Biology, 
Engineering, Music, Computer Science, Philosophy, Drama, 
the cultivation of qualities 
Classics, Athletics, Literature, Intensive Languages,
that count for leadership. 
Chemistry, Psychology, Mathematics, Anthropology
Whether you're about to 
start college or have already begun, it's time 

Stanford University For aFREE catalogue, send your:
to make your decision, 
Name _________
Summer Session
now. 
Addres.,__________

Building 590, Ground Floor Stanford, CA 94305-3005 City, ST, ZIP_______
Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 

(650) 723-3109, Fax: (650) 725-6080 Email _________ 
Email: summersession@stanford.edu
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
UNlll/8 

Web: summersession.stanlord.edu Circle: Undergrad Grad 

Rodman arrested for DUI 
Associated Pre« 
SANTA J\NJ\., Calif. 
The  Worm  is  in  trouble  
again.  
Basketball  star  Dennis  

Rodman was charged Tuesday 
with mis­demeanor drunken driving stemming from a December arrest in C o s t a 

M e 5 a · Rodman M e a n ­
while, his court date in Las Vegas on a cocktail waitress' claim that he grabbed her breasts is nearing. 
Police said the 38-year-old Dallas Mavericks forward had a blood-alcohol level of .15, nearly twice California's legal limit, when he was pulled over Dec. 22. 
After his arrest, a smiling Rodman told reporters he had a couple of beers and had no criticism for officers who stopped him. 
"They're doing their job, they're doing their job," he said. 
His arraignment is scheduled for April 3. 
On March 27, a trial is sched­uled to start in Las Vegas in the federal lawsuit by Connie Wilcox that accuses Rodman of battery and intentional inflic­tion of emotional distress. 
"I think he needs to be repri­manded for his conduct, so that he will not do this to anybody else," she said. 
Wilcox said she was serving cocktails at -the Las Vegas Hilton on April 19, 1998, when Rodman came up behind her and hugged her and picked her up. Wilcox said she dropped her tray of drinks as Rodman, with his hands on the sides of both her breasts, held her in the air for about 10 seconds. 


Wednesday, March 8, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
McSorley faces Canadian court 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER 

Marty McSorley must now answer in a Canadian court for his stick attack on Vancouver's Donald Brashear. 
The Boston Bruins dAfense­man, one of the league's tough guys, was r.harged with one count of assault with a weapon for his Feb. 21 attack. He plans to plead innocent, his lawyer said. 
McSorlev. who will not have to appear at the hearing, would face a maximum of 18 months in jail if ronvictcd. 
'Tm disappointed," Mcsorley said in an interview with ESPN. "I'm disappointed it's going to court because I don't know if anybody really knows right now bow much I've alreadv lost." 
The ·36-year-old defenseman was suspended by the NHL for the rest of the season in the league's harshest penalty ever for an on-ice infraction. He must meet with commissioner Gary Bettman before the league will consider letting him play again. 
"I've been in cont.act with a very good lawyer in Vancouver and we were l;_rying to not have it go to court," Mcsorley said. His suspension already will cost him an estimated $72.000 in salarv. 
His Vancouve·r lawyer, Bill Smart, said he hopes for a trial date in late summer or early fall. 
Geoff Gaul, a spokesman for the British Columbia criminal justice branch, said the deci­sion to charge Mcsorley was made after a prosecutor's review and a police investiga­tion. 
The NHL said it does not agree with the move, but said it will fully cooperate with Canadian authorities. 
"We believe the league dealt with the matter quickly, deci­sively and appropriately ­and did not feel that any fur­th er action was either war­ranted or necessarv," said Bill Daly, thp, NHL's chief legal officer. 
Bruins president and general manager Harry Sinden also expressed disappointment that 
the  courts  ,vere  getting  
involvPd.  
"The  National  Hockey  

League has handed down a severe discipline in this case and we reel that was suffi­cient," he said, adding that the learn would also cooperate fullv. 
Atler McSorley hit him in the right temple, Brashear fell backward, striking his head against the ice as his helmet came off. His body twitched and blood came from his nose. He was diagnosed with the most serious kind of concus­sion and his status is to be reviewed in about a week. 
Mcsorley and Brashear, another NHL tough guy, had fought earlier in the game, and Mcsorley said he was try­ing to goad Brashear into another fight at the end of the game, a 5-2 victory by the Canucks. 
"T had absolutelv no inten­tion of hurting Donald Brashear with my hockey stick." McSorley told ESPN. "I wanted a confrontation with Donald Brasher, no different than I've done on so many other nights... It just went badly." 
Mcsorley has lasted 17 years in the league because of his ability to fight and protect his more skilled teammates. Ile had six previous suspensions in his career. 
He is best known for serving as Wayne Gretzky's protector with the Edmonton Oilers and then with Los Angeles as the two were traded together in one of hockey's biggest deals. 
Mcsorley said he has received calls of support from players in the league and liall of Famers who say they under­stand what happened and offerer! to spP-ak on his behalf. 
He told them to stay out of it because he didn't want atten­tion drawn from the game. 
"That's one thing I really feel bad about is the fact the game doesn't need a black eye, and I don't want to be the cause of it," he said in the interview. 
ft took police just over a week to investigate the slash, which was witnessed by thou­sands of fans at the game and shown repeatedly on TV high­light clips. 
"There's a lot more involved in this than just that second and a half or two seconds that the video shows," McSorley said. "I think he embarrassed me. You definitely want a rematch. You have to stand up for yourself. Our bench was challenged. Our team was challenged." 
Police have gotten involved in several previous on-ice con­flicts in the NHL. 
In the most recent, Minnesota's Dino Ciccarelli was sentenced to one day in jail and fined $1,000 in 1988 for striking Toronto's Luke Richardson several times in the head with his stick. 

Washington Capitals capture first place 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Washington Capitals completed their improbable climb to first place, a posi­tion they haven't held this late in 11 years, by beating the Florida Panthers 4-2 Tuesday night. 
Steve Konowalchuk and Adam Oates scored first­period goals, the 13th of the season for both. Peter Bondra netted his 1 Yth and Uhf Dahlen his 11th as the Capitals built a 4-0 lead and moved two points ahead of their Southeast Division rivals with 15 games to go. 
Viktor Kozlov scored an unassisted goal late in the second and Cameron Stewart tallied in the third for the Panthers, 3-7-1 in 11 games. Pavel Bure, who leads the league with 45 goals, never got in the flow and was a non-factor for a team that played with little intensity after the first period. 
The Capitals took the lead, just 2:08 in, on their first shot. Dahlen, working down the right wing on a counter­attack, waited before deliv­ering a pass just as Konowalchuk arrived in front of the crease to slide home the puck. 
Oates was almost in the same spot when he made it 2-0, taking a pass across the crease from Joe Sacco at 13:44. 
Bondra got the third goal during 4-on-4 play at 1 :22 of the second, ripping a slap shot from the right circle off 
a  feed  from  Andrei  
Nikolishin.  
Dahlen.  an  aggressive  

force throughout the game, was rewarded with a power­play goal when he put in a rebound at 18:44 of the sec­ond. 
Olaf Kolzig made 28 saves for the Capitals. hut wasn't smooth early and survived some hairy moments. Ryan Johnson beat Kolzig with a slap shot in the first period, but the puck trickled just wide of the post. 
Kolzig, 24-4-4 in his last 32 starts, was his usual mas­terful self the rest of the way, making a nice leg save on Jaroslav Spacek's slap shot after a chaotic sequence in the second period. 
Predators 3, 
Blackhawks 1 
Sebastien Bordeleau scored a short-handed goal in the first period as the Nashville Predators snapped a five-game losing streak with a victory over the Chicago Blackhawks. 
Mike Dunham made 31 
LEADERS 

Full-time college student.or graduate. Starting salary, $32,000. Post offer mental and 
, physical screening. 
Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for an interview 1-877-299-9397 www.MarineOfficer.com 
saves against Chicago on Feb. 23, the last game Nashville won. 
The Blackhawks, who started a five-game road trip, had won four of five, including victories over top teams Dallas, St. Louis and Phoenix. 
Nashville moved out of last place in the Central Division, one point ahead of the Blackhawks. 
13ordeleau's short-handed tally was the only goal of the first period. He pounced on a loose puck that bounced off Chicago's Anders Eriksson and skated in alone on goalie Steve Passmore. 
Bordeleau deked Passmore to the ice and put in a back­hander. 
During a two-man advan­tage in the second period, Predators defenseman Drake Berehowsky ripped a slap shot past Passmore's glove from the top of the left cir­cle. Rookie David Legwand made it 3-0 later in the peri­od on a back-hander. 
Blair Atcheynum, formally of the Predators, made it 3-1 at 2:03 of the third with a blast that sailed by Dunham's stick. 
Chicago pulled Passmore for a sixth attacker with 1 :57 left, and had a two-man advantage after a late Predators penalty, but Nashville blocked two point shots. 
Blues 4, Coyotes 0 
Roman Turek made 16 saves to record his fifth shutout as the St. Louis Blues extended their unbeat­en streak to four with a win against the Phoenix Coyotes. 
Turek, with 35 wins, is one away from tying Curtis Joseph's team record for most in a season. Joseph set the mark in the 1993-94 sea­son. 
Jeff Finley, Michal Handzus, Marty Reasoner and Scott Young scored for the Blues, 9-1-1 in their last 
11. Lubos Bartccko and Pavo! Dcmitra assisted on Handzus' goal. giving that line 56 points in the last 17 games. 
Phoenix leads the NHL with four players with 20 or more goals, but the Rlues held the Coyotes to just two shots from the 10:00 mark of the first period through the second. Coyotes goalie Sean Burke faced 30 shots. 
Burke had the Blues shutout until Finley scored, 
7:19 into the second period with his second goal. Finley broke in 2-on-1 with Tyson Nash, and scored on a rebound on Nash's slap shot. 
With just 43 seconds left in the period, Handzus gave the Blues some insurance thanks to some nice work by Bartecko. After firing a cen­tering pass from Demitra wide of the goal, Bartecko tracked the puck down behind the net and fed 
t Handzus in front. Handzus put it over Burke for his 
, 22nd goal. 
Reasoner scored his eighth off a rebound of Dave Ellett's shot at 12:39 of the third. Young scored unassisted at 14:29. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 8, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Gonzalez, Sosa hit first spring homers 
Associated Press 
Juan Gonzalez and Sammy Sosa hit their first home runs of the spring, while Jose Canseco and Jay Buhner tried to show they've recovered from injury problems. 
Gonzalez connected for one of five homers in the Detroit Tigers' 10-7 loss to the Atlanta Braves in Lakeland 
Fla. , 
"lie just looks menacing at the plate, doesn't he?" new Tigers manager Phil Garner said. 
Gonzalez, acquired from Texas during the offseason, hit a long, two-run shot. He's been nursing a strained left hamstring. As a result. he has been used only as a designat­ed hitter this spring, and only at Joker Marchant Stadium. 
"l want to see him get to where he wants to be, which is swinging the bat," Garner said. "He doesn't need to make road trips in spring training." 
In Tucson. Ariz., Sosa home­red in a five-run fifth, but the Arizona Diamondbacks rallied for four runs with two outs in the ninth to beat the Chicago Cubs 9-8. 
Sosa's drive off the left-field scoreboard at Electric Park was estimated at 425 feet. 
In St. Petersburg, Fla., Canseco's back felt fine and he had a run-scoring single in his spring debut. 
'Tm healthy. That's my main concern." the 35-year­old designated hitter said after going 1-for-3 with a walk in the Tampa Bay Devil Rays' 3-1 win over Texas. 
Canseco sat out the first weekend of exhibition games after arriving in camp five days late. He was sidelined for six weeks following back surgery last summer. and manager Larry Rothschild is allowing him to get into play­ing shape at his own pace. 
With Ken Griffey gone, the Seattle Mariners are counting on Buhncr to become a home run threat again. He appears ready for the challenge. 
Rubner hit his second home run of the spring Tuesday to lead the Mariners over the Anaheim Angels 5-3. 
In roster moves, catcher Gregg Zaun was traded to the Kansas City Royals from the Detroit for a player to be named or cash, and pitcher Jeff Juden, unwanted by many in the New York Yankees' organization, was placed on waivers for the purpose of his unconditional release. 
La Russa weighs pitching options 
we'd probably vote for 
Associated Press 
Bottenfield because he had a such a great year last yearJUPITER, Fla. 
and he's been here," Benes
The toughest decision Tony said. "But I don't think they'reLa Russa might have to make going to ask us or poll us."
this spring is choosing an 
The numbers seem to favor
opening-day starter. 
Bottenfield, who would be
Kent Bottenfield is coming making his first opening-dayoff an 18-vic­to ry season. Pat Hentgen is a former AL Cy Young Award win­ner. Darryl Kile was 19-7 in 1997 for the Houston Astros. Andy Benes helped lead the Cardinals to the 1996 NL Central tiI.le. 
"On<' of' the fun things when you fig­
"One ofthe fun things when you figure your rotation is deep enough is you have the possibility that every series you play. you like the matchups all the time, becuause everybody you send out. you like." 
Tony La Russa Cardinals Manager 
ure your rotation is deep enough," La Russa said, "is you have the possibility that every series you play, you like the matchups all the timr, because everybody you send out, you like." 
The candidates don't seem tu mind who gets the call. 
"I just think it's awesome that we have this much depth," Benes said. 
Bottenfield, who in 1999 matched the career wins total he compiled in his first five seasons. is the emotional choice because he's the lone incL1mbent. Benes returned as a free agent, and Hentgen and Kile were acquired in trades. 
"l think if you took a vote, 
start. Last year, he was 2-0 with a 
1.42 ERA against the Cubs, who open at St. Louis on April 3, and 2-0 with a 
1.96 ERA against the Milwaukee Brewers, at St. Louis the first week­end. 
That's the best show­
ing, by far, of any of the four against the first two oppu· nents. He's also coming off u much better year than any of the other three, with Benes' 13-12 season a distant second best. Kile started the spring training opener, but he ·s struggled the last two years. playing at mile-high Coors Field. Mentgen is a .500 pitch­er the last two seasons. 
"I know Tony is big into matchups," Bottenfield said. "In order to pitch against both of them, I would have to pitch the first game of the season and the last game of the Milwaukee series. But I don't know and I'm not worried about it." 

Yankees see slow start in spring 
Associated Press 

TAMPA, Fla. 
George Steinbrenner is hav­ing a hard time watching his New York Yankees. In fact, he can't even sit through the whole game. 
The Boss made another early exit from his box ,along with his guest, television host Hegis Philbin, as the Yankees lost to Minnesota 7-5 Tuesday night, leaving the World Series champions winless in six exhi­bition games. 
The day before, Steinbrenner ducked out dur­ing a 15-1 pasting by Cleveland. 
"Nobody likes losing. I don't like losing," Steinbrenner said at the time. "I don't like losing by the numbers we're losing by." 
These are the stats Steinbrenner has seen so far in spring training: New York has been outscored 56-21 and has not held a lead in any game. 
"Anytime they're 0-6, that kind of stands out for the Yankees," said Twins pitcher Eric Milton, who started his career in New York organiza­tion. "Anytime you see the Yankees losing, it is a little odd. But it is spring training and you can't go by spring training records." 
No need to remind the Boss that the Yankees went 14-19 last spring before rolling to their second straight Series 
"losing in spring training isn't important. It's important to make sure you play the game right." 
Joe Torre Yankees manager 

sweep. Or to mention that Los Angeles is also 0-6 this spring. 
"I've told you guys that it's too early," the owner said dur­ing the loss to the Indians. "But pretty soon we'll be at a point where it won't be early anymore. We're not there, yet." 
"You'll know. I'll let you know," he said. "The whole club will know, believe me." 
Almost sounds like the mid­1980s all over again. That's when he used to put October­sty le emphasis on March meetings with t.he New York Mets, calling those exhibitions "pressum situations." 
The only spark this spring came in the exhibition opener when. trailing 9-0 with two outs in the ninth inning, New York brought the tying run to the plate in a 9-7 loss to Toronto. Steinbrenner attend­ed that game, too, but left before the rally. 
On Sunday, Steinbrenner watched Hoger Clemens give up five runs in 2 2-3 innings before ducking inside. Prior to the game, David Cone joked with Steinbrenner, calling his start against the Indians a "must-win," 
.C_one lasted 2 2/3 innings, g1vmg up three runs and four hits. He left after Roberto Alomar's home run. 
"Nobody wants to be embar­rassed, but it's early," Cone said. "As far as I'm concerned. the Kansas City Royals can win the Grapefruit League." 
Then again, the Royals start­ed out 0-4. 
"The record doesn't matter but how you play matters,'; shortstop Derek Jeter said, "We aren't doing anything right. We haven't hit well, we haven't pitched well, we haven't played defense well, we haven't run the bases well." 
Even though it's early, this was not the way the Yankees wanted to start out. 
Not after Darryl Strawberry was suspended. Not after Orlando Hernandez. Ramiro Mendoza and Ed Yarnall weren't healthy enough to pitch. 
And now, tlrnse six losses. 
"Am I worried about it? No" Yankees manager Joe Tor;e said before the Twins game. "Does it consume me? No. Am I going to try and do some­thing different? No." 
"Losing in -spring training is not important. It's important to make sure you play the game right. We've been a little sloppy playing the game and that bothers me." 


We're having a Spring Preview Day ... Sunday, March 26 ... I:00 -4:00 p.m . ... and you're invited. * HOLY There's a lot more to Holy Cross College than a 
CROSS

f~sh, new face.We're ~icking off the new century with an expanded curriculum, a new associate of 
COLLEGE

arts deg~ee in b~s.iness administration, spruced up landscaping, add1t1onal sports and recreation facilities Notre Dame, Indiana and more on-campus housing. Just recently, we broke ground on a new student apartment complex, 
P.O.Box 308 
Some things haven't changed, though.We're still a · Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308small, dose-knit, two-year liberal arts college where 
219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 
you'll get the personal attention you need for success, 
Come to our Preview Day. And see how we do it. www.hcc-nd.edu 
@2000 Holy Cross College 

Wednesday, March 8, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
IRISH INSIGHT
NBA 
Murphy's future
Starks says good-bye to Bulls 
Associated f'ress 
CHICAGO 

Chicago Bulls fans won't be able to heckle John Starks any­mo re, Starks went home to Tulsa, Okla,, to await an arbi­trator's decision on whether he can forfeit the rest of his salary, leave the Hulls and join a play­
oIT contender. Starks, who didn't travel with the Bulls for their game at Charlotte on Sunday, lcll Monday. 
"He's got a wife that's preg­nant and lw's got tendinitis in his legs," Bulls coach Tim Floyd said Tuesday beforn Chicago's game against Atlanta. 
"This will allow him to be with his wife and with tendini­tis, the only way to heal it is rnst," Floyd said. "This will allow him to do both." 
Starks, :~4, offpred to forfeit the rest of his $4 million salary, roughly $900,000, if the Bulls would waive him, clearing the 
THE 
way for him to sign with a play­off contender. The New York Knicks and Miami Heat were interested in adding him if he won his case, several league sources said. 
But arbitrator Kenneth Dam ruled Friday that the NBA didn't circumvent the collective bargaining agree,rnmt when it rejected Starks' request. Because there was no circum­vention, Dam said a grievance arbitrator needed to hear the case. Dam is a system arbitra­tor. 
A grievance arbitrator is expected to hear the case sometime this week. 
Starks, never a fan favorite in Chicago after his thug-life days with the New York Knicks, has been a lightning rod for criti­cism since he took a seat on the bench Feb. 27 with tendinitis. He insisted he's in pain, but he also said he'd play through it if he was on a contending team. 
Fans booed him at Saturday's home game. One group chanted "John, go home!" as the game 

still questionable 
Jarvis predicted back in January that this would be
TASTY BACON 

Murphy's last year at the col­legiate level, Doherty asked that the subject be kept quiet ended. Now they've got their wish. 
Troy Murphy let loose aWhile putting a few hundred pent-up flurry of speculationmiles between Starks and the about his future at NotreBulls makes him less of a dis­Dame Tuesday night.
traction: Floyd said that isn't Aswhy he went home. 

Murphy"I don't think he was 'sent' acceptedanywhere," Floyd said. "I didn't • the honorthink he was a distraction and I of Big Eastdon't think we saw it with our Player of team even though we've lost. 
the Year,We've been in game until the he referredfinal minutes." 
to nextThe Bulls could still release year, open­Starks and let him sign with ing a can ofanother team, but they'd have worms on
to pay the remainder of his 

a topicsalary. He'd remain shut out of kept on thethe playoffs, too. 
hush-hushPlayers released after 11:59 since headp.m. on March 1 who then sign coach Mattwith another team arc not eligi­Doherty'sble to compete in the playoffs. 
request earlier in the season.
Starks wanted his release 

'Td like to take also a spe­retroactive to that date to make cial time to say thank you tohim eligible for the postseason. 
Coach Doherty," said Murphy, 
just a sophomore. "You've 
helped me so much this year, 
and it's really meant a lot to 
me to play for you. l just look 
forward to next year." 
After St. John's coach !vlike 


until after the season. Murphy brought the subject
CHEDDAR WHOPPER~ back to the forefront with his off-the-cuff comment last 
night. He insisted that the comment was not meant as a 
declaration that he would 
return for another year at
T H I N K O F I T A S A W H O P P E R® T H A T ' S 

Notre Dame, but rather a 
statement of appreciation in 
an unprepared speech. 
"I was just trying to express to Coach Doherty how grateful I was for what he's done this
DRESSED UP WITH SOMEPLACE TO GO. 

year, and how happy I am that I have the opportunity to play for him," Murphy said. "I haven't really decided. It's something I have to sit down and talk to Coach Doherty about." 
As soon as the words came out of his mouth, he realized just what he had done. 
"I opened up something by saying that," Murphy said. "I should have written something down." 
Doherty didn't take the remark too seriously. 
"I don't read into it," Doherty said. "I think that he may have just had a slip. It may have been, 'Heck, I'm looking forward to next year.' I just think that we're going to do what we originally planned to do and after the season sit down and talk about what he wants to do. It's up to him." 
The marquis player and his mentor share a close bond, one that will make Murphy's decision difficult. 
"He's a huge reason [that I would stay]," Murphy said. "He's going to be a great int1u­ence on my decision because he's been in the position before about talking to people about this kind of stuff." 
Murphy's parents and his AAU coach will be key parts of the discussion. 
Another factor will be Murphy's realization of how life will change if he opts to leave for the NBA after this year. He's having fun where he's at, enjoying life with his teammates and as a college student. 
"The fact that I won't be able to have a good time with the guys on the team in the dorm," Murphy said. ''I'll be with guys that are older than mo and have families and stuff like that, A lot of people say it is a job and that college bas­ketball's a lot more fun. It's just a decision that you have to make and it's something that I'll do after the season's over." 
Murphy has developed rapidly since high school. In two years, he's gone from playing at Delbarton in front of 50 people and eating cheese sandwiches after the game to leading the blue and gold in front of a Madison Square Garden crowd. 
But is he ready for the rigor of a physically demanding 82­game NBA schedule? 
Murphy's body already takes a bruising in the Big East. But in the NBA, he'll be going up against guys who are much more muscular and more physically imposing than those at the college level. 
Another year or two of building up his frame and adding muscle would leave Murphy much better prepared to take on the hard.knocks on the road. Staying at Notre Dame would also allow Murphy to improve his defen­sive skills. the one area in which he may be lacking. 
"I think he's gotten better," Doherty said. "But I think he could be really a good defend­er. I don't think he's where I want him to be or where he wants to be defensively." 
It is a tough choice for a 20­ycar-old: stay in school in hopes of improving your game and draft status or drop out to answer the call of a possible multi-million dollar contract. 
Murphy seems better equipped to make the judg­ment than most guys his age. Ile has a strong support crew to sound off on in Uoherty, his parents and his teammates. And he's not one to jump to quick decisions, balandng the pros and cons of each possibil­ity instead. 
"Coach told me it was nice to have this kind of problem," he said, "and it is." 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 


T H E WH O P P E R • W I T H A N E W T W I S T F O R A L I M I T E D T I ME,, If you're already a fan of "America's Favorite Burger,"• why not try it a whole new way? 

Recycle
With crispy bacon and melted cheddar chee&<:l; it's sure to put a smile on your face. So head to a BURGER KING"' restaurant soon and make sure to bring your appetite. 
The Observer 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 


1999-2000 BIG EAST 
CJHIMlIPRONSIHI[lP 
Wednesday, March 8, 2000
page 20 

Starting point guard Dillon surprises fans in senior year 

LIZ LANG/The Obseiver Senior point guard Jimmy Dillon earned a steady spot in the starting line-up for the first time in his career this season. 
played any bet­
Hoops 
t e r , " continued from page 24 s a i d 
------------Murphy, 
the con­
ference's leading scorer (23 ppg) and 
rebounds (10.5 rpg). 
Tonight's game is the 13th meeting between the two teams. The all-time series is tied at 6-6, but Rutgers leads the series 5-2 since Notre Dame joined the Big East. The two teams have never met in the Big East Championship. 
"We struggled with them in the past," 
first-year head coach Matt Doherty said. 
"We didn't match up well with them last 
time, but hopefully, we're better than 
we were when we played them the la.st 
time." 
The Irish will also be looking for their 
first victory in the Big East tournament. 
Notre Dame has bowed out in the first 
round in all four years of their member­
ship in the conference. However, the 
lrish have secured their highest seed 
ever and tiP.d their best conference 
mark. 
"I hope it's motivation enough that 
we're playing in the Big East tourna­
ment, but I think in the back of our 
minds we knew that they beat us badly 
last time," Doherty said. "We'd like to 
show them that we can play." 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Sports Edito1 
NEW YOHK 

Irish point guard Jimmy Dillon sur­prised everybody but himself this season with his marked improvement. 
Last year, Dillon was a reserve who chalked up nearly as many turnovers as he did assists. Now a senior, Dillon holds a steady spot in the starting lineup for the first time in his career. 
"You want to say you're surprised, and I know it surprised a lot of the public," Dillon said. "But myself, it's sort of not an honor, hut a reward for all the hard work." 
And he earned it. Ile improved his stats in every area of the game this year: shooting, rebounding and most of all assists. In Hig East play, Dillon is shoot­ing 47 percent and has one of the best assist to turnover ratios in the confer­ence. 
"Jimmy's a very good shooter, but we have very good shooters on our team, and I think he enjoys setting up his teammates," head coach Matt Doherty said. "lle's just accepted his role as one to distribute the ball, play tough dnfense. play with a lot of intensity, and he's done a great job with it." 
The improvement didn't come easily. Dillon strove to increase his strength by hitting the weigh~s last summer, and competed in a league with fellow Philadelphia native Matt Carroll, a freshman guard for the Irish. 
But gaining emotional maturity was just as significant in his development as was physical maturity. Last season, Dillon went through his toughest Notre Dame experience, a one-game suspen­sion for throwing a soda bottle at a bus. 
"It was Junior Parents Weekend, and I went out and did something dumb and took my suspension from it," Dillon said. "It was a home game against West Virginia, and I went home and sat there and realized I wasn't helping my team and being a part of the game." 
The incident taught Dillon exactly what not to do, and he developed better composure both on and off the court as a result. As the team's lone senior starter, he also became the emotional leader. 
Notre Dame is also coming off an out." impressive victory over Georgetown and Rutgers is led by guard Dahntay outplayed top-seeded Syracuse in the Jones, who averages a team-high 16 
second half of that game. I think it's a points. Billet and Jeff Greer also aver­Miami in the quarterfinals Thursday. confidence booster, but we'll see how ages double figures. The ,----------------------, 
we handle it," Doherty said. "It definite­

Scarlet have 
B Isl
Knights
ly is a big boost to our confidence that dropped their last three we're playing good basketball and 
~~~tpe!~fti~:\nh~~~t~=~ny
hopefully we can carry that over to the Big East tournament." every game they have 
The Irish have just one win in their played this season. last four games. but Doherty remains llowcver, they have had upbeat. difficulty winning the close 
"I think the last three games we ones, posting just a 3-10 played well we just only had onP. win re_cord in games decided by because we played the two best teams six points or less. in the league," he said. "You can't "We want to play them," always judge how well you're playing by said Graves who averages wins and losses. I think you have to look .13 points per game and is at the games themselves and I think corning oft' one of his best we've been playing good basketball all games of the season. "It's along." going to be the same thing 
Doherty also seems to have found a again. They really jumped lineup that has clicked. Freshman small on our case big-time. forward Jern Macura has come off the We're hack in their neck of bench to give Notre Dame a big offen­the woods. We're going to sive lift and should see significant play­be the ones traveling, and ing time against Rutgers. The Irish zone it's going to be a big game. has also confused opposing offenses. It's going to be a huge 
"First of all, I think we need to play game because we want to hard, and I think offensively, we need to get a solid win. We still execute against their tough man-to-man have chances for the NCAA defense," Doherty said. "Defensively, we Tourn-ament. We're going have to contest their shooters and box to keep working hard. 
"I see him as being the leader on the team," Carroll said. "If you look at the teams that have won national champi­onships and had a lot of success, usually they arc the teams that am real close on and off the court. And I think that's the way our team is." 
The coaching change from .John MacLeod to Doherty opened the door for Dillon's enlarged role for the Irish. While MacLeod had the helm, Dillon stood on uncertain ground, never sure of his place on the team. Under Doherty, Dillon plays 30 minutes per game (twice as much as last season) and directs tlrn Notre Dame offense. 
"Coach has showed some confidence in me to be a starter on this team and being a leader out there," Dillon said. "It's just different from last year because I wasn't sure how long I was going to be on the court. This year, I know he 1rneds me out there to lead the team." 
Dillon's poise allows him to act as an on-the-court coach, a role that may prove useful after graduation as he hopes to coach college basketball. 
"It's important that you have upper­classmen who can lw leaders because they've been through things that the younger guys haven't been through," Doherty said. "It's important to help motivate the team. I can only do so much. It's got to come from the playPrs." 
Winning is an attitude to Dillon, one he hopes the Irish will display in coming weeks because for him, there is no tomorrow. 
"To myself, I've always known that winning's an attitude, and it hasn't been there the past three years, and this year with Coach's mind-frame and him hav­ing us believing that we can compete with teams ... it's a whole new ballgame. We had five wins over ranked opponents this year, and nobody around would ever think that would be possible." 
Unlike the team's underclassmen, Dillon can't wait until next year for an NCAA Tournament berth. It must come now. 
"My career is winding down," Dillon said. "You kind of look and say you don't want to take basketball for granted. A loss is a loss. and a win is a win. And if you don't give it all, you know that's something you start regretting." 
We're going to come out with a lot of intensity." The winner of tonight's game takes on 
Men,?&r,Dra•

-\ ~ \, ······· .)' .... f ... ·· .. ) 
~JOE·~,, 
Q~arter
fmals 
, 
(1) Syracuse Semi 
finals 

(8) 
Georgetown 

(9) West Virgi 
ia 

Finals 

5 Seton Hall 12 Providen e 
4 

(
13) Boston Coll ge 
(3) Miami ( 6) Villanova 
(11) Pittsbu 7 Notre Dame 



(10) Rutge , 
(2 St. Jo JOSE CUELLAR!fhe Observer 

PION SHIPS 
<CIHIMlIPIT(Q) N~ IHtITIP 
Wednesday, March 8, 2000 page 21 


Murphy sets standards, wins Big East player of year 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN A.ssisrant Sporrs Editor 
NEW YORK 

Sophomore power forward Troy Murphy set a new stan­dard for Big East excellence this season. becoming the first player ever tu lead the league in hoth SC'oring and rebound­ing. 
The conference rewarded him for his efforts Tuf'sday. honoring Murphy with an award for Big East Player of the Year prior to today's open­ing of the Big East Tournament in Madison Square Garden. 
Murphy gratefully accepted the award, but then did some­thing that really showed his character: He passed on the accoladfls, sharing his accom­plishment with first-year Notrn Dame head coach Matt Doherty and the rest of the Irish squad. 
"I couldn't have done it with­out my teammates and coach," the 6-foot-9 Murphy said. 'Tve had a great time with them. It says a lot. rt's hard for me to express. It's been a great year." 
Doherty returned the praise. 
"I wouldn't trade him for anybody," Doherty said. "He comes every day prepared to work hard. He loves the game. lie wants to be really good, and he's passionate about it. I think that he's having a heck of a year." 
He's right. Murphy's averag­ing 23 points and more rebounds per game, numbers that designate him as the only player in the nation to rank in the top 10 in both categories. With 17 double-doubles this season, Murphy has become a household name for Irish fans. 
Murphy is up for considera­tion for honors like the Wooden Award and All­American team, possibilities that boggle his mind. 
"I never expected to be con­sidered for an honor like that [All American]," Murphy said. "It was a dream back in high school. I've played for great coaches, and all the credit goes to them." 
Even Murphy's father, Jim Murphy, did not expect Troy to become so good so fast. 

"Not so early," Jim Murphy "lt's his work ethic and his said. "I thought he would hit all talent," Doherty said. "God of this when he was a junior or blessed him with size and a senior." shooting touch and an ability to 
Doherty attributed much of run and jump, and he's made Murphy's success to his hard the most of it." work. Since Notre Dame hired Doherty as head coach less than a year ago, the relation­ship between Doherty and Murphy has gone full circle. When Doherty became head coach, Murphy was less than thrilled about the replacement of former coach John MacLP.od. Now, he's Doherty's biggest fan. 

"He's changed the whole atti­tude of the program," Murphy said. "He· s taken the time to get tu know me as not only just a player, but as a person. That shows a lot about the character of him as a person." 
Doherty views the emotional connection as an essential part of being a coach. 
"As a coach, as a parent, you dream about a connection with your children," Doherty said. "When he says those things, it's very touching because I wanted the whole experience. I don't want just the basketball experience. I want tho P-mo­tional bond with my players." 
Back in high school, Murphy was interested in playing for Kansas. where Doherty was an assistant coach at the time. Although Doherty did see Murphy play. Kansas never actively recruited Murphy. 
"I saw him enough where I thought he was a good player," Doherty said. "You never know how good. There are kids I've recruited that I thought were going to be great players that weren't, and then kids that you didn't know, if they were going to be great players and turn out to be great players." 
Two years later, Murphy has proven that ·he is one of the great ones. Every coach whose team has gone up against Notre Dame has struggled to find a way to defend against Murphy, usually with little suc­cess. 
Even when Murphy is held to a sub-par performance. he still hurts the opponent. In Notre Dame's January loss to Rutgers, Murphy was whistled for a technical foul en route to fouling out, and only shot 5­for-16 from the field. 
Yet Rutgers' coach Kevin Bannon still said, "It's not like there's an answer to stopping the guy. He's too good. He can hurt you in too many ways. The guy is a human double­double. You can't name five better guys in college basket­ball right now." 
As Notre Dame prepares for tonight's rematch with Rutgers, Murphy hopes to prove Bannon's words right. 
the inside 
bench: Rutgers' Joel Salvi 
rebounding: Rutgers brings 

and Luis Flores notch 11 experience: The two start­
down more board.~ than 

points and seven 
ing line-ups combined
edge 
•
Notre Dame, but Irish star 

rebounds per game. Notre list only one senior. The 
Troy Murphy is one ofthe Overall 
• 
EVEN Dame has threP solid Scarlet Knights qualified
nation's top rebounders. 

records: 17-13 freshman reserves, as for the NIT last season. Notre Dame needs this conference: 8-8 well as former starting while the Irish posted a win to keep alive dim tourney seed: No. 7 shooting: Both teams net point guard Martin losing record, hopes of making it to about 68 points per game. ln_qelsby. 
March Madness. The


ThP Irish ore streaky ­
Irish have played well in
records: 15-14 
when they're hot, they're coaching: Rutgers' Kevin 
intangibles: The Scarlet

conference: 6-10 unstoppable; when they're Bannon has 17 years of their past two games,
Knights play close to

tourney seed: No. ro not, watch our. coaching experience, but while the Scarlet Knights
home, but the Irish are

has only earned two 
must bounce back from a
gunning for them after
berths in the NCAA tour­

Last meeting ball-handling: Notre Dame 
suffering their most lop­tough loss to the West 
nament. First-year Notre 
claims the Rig East cellar 

sided loss ofthe season Virginia Mountaineers. If
/Jame head coach Matt

Rutgers 76, 
for turnover margin. but to the Scarlet Knights in 
the Irish come out
Doherty turned the pro­
point guard Jimmy Dillon

Notre Dame 51 January. Notre Dame is 
gram around, bringing aggressive, it should be
boasts one ofthe best 

seeking its first-ever Big
enthusiasm and energy

assists to turnuuers ratio. their game to lose.
East tournament win.
back to Irish basketball. 

__ .... page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 8, 2000 
fielder Steve Stanley followed 
SOCCER 
with a bunt single to the left
Baseball 
side-extending his hitting strnak to six games and junior
continued from page 24 
shortstop Alec Porzcl walked 

Apple named interim head coach 
Carlin had issued three walks ou five pitches before Staviskv while hitting a fourth Spartans delivered an 0-2 single to 
batter with a pitch. Freshmau right-hander Joel Barrus took the loss, allowing the five runs (four earned) on six hits and four walks over seven innings. 
Stavisky scored the first Irish nm, aft11r leading off thA bottom of the socond with a 2­2 single through the right side of th11 infiPld. He moved up on a single to right field by senior first baseman Jeff Felker and a perfoctly~executed ground­out to the right side by senior Matt Nussbaum, who started at catcher for the first time in his Irish career. 
Sophomore third baseman Andrew Bushey plated the runner, going the other wav on an 0-1 pitch for a sing!;:. through the left side. O'Toole hit his first home run of the season with one out in the third. lifting a 1-1 pitch over the right field fence. 
The blast marked the fourth straight game at Eck Stadium in which O'Toole has hit a home run. (Ile went yard in each of Notre Dame's three 1999 NCAA Tournament games.) Sophomore center 
right field, plating Stanley. Right fieldr,r Steve Quaderer then made an errant throw back tu the infield, with Porze] alertly scooting home for an unearned run and a 4-0 Irish lead. 
\tfanchestM's Blake Collinsworth drew a full­count, one-out walk in the fourth and Carlin then hit Jeff Floyd with an 0-1 pitch. llardiman followed with a walk on five pitches before four straight balls to Pete Britton forced in the .lone Spartans run. 
The 1rish tacked on a run on the fifth, when O'ToulP led off with a full-count walk, stoic second and took third on Stanley's rightside groundout. Purzel then hit a gruundbaH to the third baseman Collinsworth, who conceded the run while throwing Porzel out at first. Irish freshman right-hander Brandon Viloria had an impressiv11 debut, allowing two hits and no walks during the sixth, sev­enth and eighth innings while recording two strikeouts. 
Got Sports? Call 1-4543 
Special ro The Observer 

Chris Apple, assistant men's soccer coach at Notre Dame the last four seasons, has been named interim head men's soccer coach at t h e University of Notre Dame. 
App I c replaces !\like Berticelli, who died suddenly Jan. 25, Apple following 10 seasons as Irish head roach. 

Apple will coach the Irish men's team on an interim basis through the 2000 fall season. The University is in th(' process of searching for a new director of athletics, and that individual will have tbe opportunity to determine a direction for all Irish athletic teams. 
"I'm extremely grateful the University has shown the faith in me to oversee the Notre Dame men's soccer program," said Apple. 
'Tm also honored to follow Mike Berticelli. who was my close friend and mentor. Mike's contributions to soc­cer at Notre Dame and to the game at large have been immense, and I'm thankful simply to have an opportuni­ty to add to those." 
Apple has been extensively involved in recruiting in his four seasons at Notre Dame. He played a key role in the signing of l 999 Big East rookie of the year Erich Braun, a freshman from Frankfurt. Germany, who fin­ished third in the conference in scoring in '99, as well as Andreas Forstner, a fresh­man from Gerlinden Germany, who ranked as on~ of the top first-year defend­ers in the Big East in '99. 
Apple's four seasons with the Irish saw Notre Dame produce a combined 41-:n­10 record (.561), including trips to the Big East men's soccer tournament each of his four years on the staff. His first season at Notre Dame in '96 featured the most successful season in Irish history, including a 14­7 -2 record and an NCAA first-round victory over sec­ond-ranked North Carolina­Greensboro. The Irish fin­ished 17th that season in the final Soccer America poll. 
Apple came to Notre Dame in the spring of '96 following two seasons as head coach at North Carolina Wesleyan, where his teams finished 12­20-1 combined during the 1994 and '95 campaigns. 
A standout midfielder at the University of Rochester, Apple led his team to three University Athletic Association championships and three NCAA tournament appearances during his four­year career. lie was a two­time All-American at the school and three times earned all-UAA honors. In 1990, he was named the con­ference player of the year. 
A 1992 cum laude graduate of Rochester with a bachelor of arts in German literature and European history, the Millersville, Pa., native played professionally in Germany for one year follow­ing graduation. Apple then served as an assistant coach at Harvard for one season in '93 before tak.ing over as head coach at North Carolina Wesleyan. 
Apple, who played profes­sionally in the United States for the Haleigh Flyers, holds a National Soccer Coaches Association of America advanced national diploma and a United States Soccer Federation "B" license. 
Born April 9, 1970, he and his wife Melissa were mar­ried in May 1997 and reside in South Bend. She currently is a doctoral student in psy­chology at Notre Dame. 

Would you like to Discuss Aspects of Sexual Orientation in the eontext of Jaith? 
Cjoin us for the 'J,ourth ,4nnual Retreatfor lesbian, gay, and bisexual undergraduate students, theirfriends, and supporters. }Vl,arch 31--April 1, 2000 
• 
Explore your gifts and the milestones in your life 

• 
Meet new people 

• 
Discuss how we are all called to follow Christ 


• 
Examine ways to reach out to the ND/St. Mary's community 


Applications due Friday, March 24th 
Applications available @ Campus Ministry: 103 Hesburgh Library or 11 2 Badin Hall 
For more information or to register,
please contact:
0MPU5 Alyssa: 4-31 94 Tom: 1-4112
t\111Nl5TRY 

E-mail: doyle.22@nd.edu 


Wednesday, March 8, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Yo\J'VE Jl).S.r Of'ENED ,., l>OEt.N',-'TH .. 1 i"l:t.L Yov PA<.l(..lt\<::,E ~~,.._ 'r'IOME ,i.~1" '.:101"\Ei l\\lll(, /11$£>"1 'foutSf;t.l'~ \1._0 Fi\JE-MotJTt4-0l-D l)ot-i'T Vou REN.12.E 110,"f C.001<'..\ES 11'1>10~ ! .5o.....lIT141!116 \S 'oJRokG.~ 
Fox TROT 
HA\'£ YOU 
SEEN oUR 
MAIL LAT£LY? 
I

~nj '1; 
r 
81LLS, SILL'S, 81LLS, BILLS, BtLLS, SILL'S, BILLS! --------• 
~v'RE Rl<:,Wi, 1: (.l!,.\-J'T ­BEI..IE\/E J: NEVE~ l>lol\c..~t> li BHoRE! Jfs i1f'o\€ To 
OE.~L \Jl'nl nl'E. Piol3\..EI"\. 
C:"'LL ~II! 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
IT WOULD GI\IE WHAT'S 0 THESE AREN'T Ml AN ULC£R If lliAT? ; IT'D Al.L 81LLS­IT WEREN'T Fo I MEAN HERE'S A ONE THIMG. ANOTHER CATALOG. 
BILL.
\ 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
For some, Spring Break comes not a moment too soon. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
58 Tennis's 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8, 2000
ACROSS 28 Connected, Makarova and 
nowadays 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): This
others

1 Small tip 29 Ellery Queen DAY: Lynn Redgrave, Mavor Moore, is a great day to broaden your cultur­
59 Sorrowful souls 

9Aton Randy Meisner, Cyd Charisse, Kathy al knowledge. Don't hesitate to join 
and others 

60 Bad lover? Ireland, David Wilkie groups that can expand your hori­
14 "Likely story" 34 Site of Kit 
61 Merchant Happy Birthday: You will tell it zons. Use your diplomacy and 
15 Weed of the mint Carson's grave 
like it is this year and make amazing . charm when dealing with your boss. 
family 
35 Opening of a strides toward your goals. You must 000 16 Shells may be in retail store? DOWN step into a position of leadership, LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Proper­them allowing yourself to accept the glory ty investments or residential moves
36 Strike 

1 One-handed you deserve for a job weU-done. Be will be beneficial to the whole family. 
17 Blazing 
37 Don't act Norse god proud of yourself. You can make a You should be able to work well with 18 Christmas times: 
40 Pupil surrounder 2Shoe difference and certain] y have some­others.000 Abbr. thing worthwhile to contribute. Your SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. :Zl): Set
42 Hardly thrilling designation 

19 Egyptian god 3 Noodge numbers: 13, 16, 26, 39, 44, 47 your mind on creative goals. You can 
43 Fox's Fox 

ARIES {Ma.tth 21-April 19): Put aid children by making their activi­
shown holding a 4McOueenof
44 "Equal Time· your efforts into your career. Your ties more interesting. Take a look at
scroll movies
co-host, once personal life will not be, going the purchases that may enhance the 20 Hearst's 5 "Conga" singer way you'd hoped. Look into courses appearance of your home. 00000
49Age abbr.

captors: Abbr. 6 Loony that will get your mind off your SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 23 They're often so Some cats 7 "East of Eden" troubles. 000 21h Added stress will cause minor made of silk 51 Cleaning TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You illness. Watch your dietary habits,
family name

solution? will gain the most from listening to Someone may be trying to outsmart
25Las--, 8 French 
those with experience. Your ability to you regarding a project at work. 00
53 Wake-up call? 

Canary Islands possessive ferret out secret information will pay CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 27 Associate of 54 Acts between 9 Chicken that's a big dividends. 0000 Financial limitations are likely if you Dayan parties prolific egg layer GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Red have recently become involved in a tape will be difficult to settle today. dubious financial scheme. Your mate
10 Far from blasting 

Don't bang your head against the won't be too happy if you have kept 
11 Fall off 

wall trying to make others listen to your dealings a secret. 0000 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 More terrible your complaints. Concentrate on AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb, 181: 
13 Dance set? completing projects at work. 00 Get caught up on your household Puzzle by Jim Page CANCER (June 21-July 22): Too chores in order to avoid another dis­
15 Lincoln's first 

much activity will be exhausting. ruptive encounter. It is best not to
Vice President 33 Shiners 46 Protected bird 52 Include 

You must talk confusing issues over question your partner. Keep to your­19 Words before 35 Has quite an 54 British sports with your mate. Don't let anyone self and don't leave any room for
47 "The Secret "Fine" and impact on cars handle your financial affairs. complaints. 000

History"

"Pretty" in song 00000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You
38 Basque, e.g. novelist Tartt ssPro-­

20 Some are blind LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Commu­can inspire enthusiasm in others 39 Learns little by 56 Time piece? nication is likely to be blocked. Your regarding possible moneymaking
48 Hindenburg's

little partner will be feeling left out and projects or fund-raising ideas, Don't
22 Set apart predecessor 571040ID 

40 Its range is confused. Try not to let your prob­be too quick to get the ball rolling;
24 Understanding 

lems at work cloud your perception someone important may back out.
about 500-1700 

26 Spray at home. You may lose on both 000kHz Answers to any three clues in this puzzle fronis. 000 
41 More out of 
maneuver are available by touch-tone phone: 

Birthday Baby: You were born with charm, and because of this you'll be
shape 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

able to talk your way around almost everyone you encounter. You are strong, 
44 Iris Murdoch and Annual subscriptions are available tor the 

32 Solver of the passionate and easy to love. You have what it takes to get others to folio\\< Konigsberg others best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
you. . . . 
bridge problem 45-Gay 50years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. (Need advice? Check out Eugema's Web s1tes at astroadv1ce.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
0 2000 Univei:sal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
---~~----------~---------------~-----------------------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


Dillon steps up 
Dillon's successful season surprises fans and teammates. 
page 20
PORTS 

O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Wednesday, March 8, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish seek first-ever Big East tournament victory 

,._ 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports W ricer 
The Notre Dame baseball team cashed in on the unsea­sonably warm weather Tuesday by posting a 5-1 win over visiting Manchester College at Eck Stadium. 
Sophomore right-hander Matt Buchmeier (l-0) was credited with the first win of his Irish career, after opening the game with three scoreless innings in a planned rotation. BuchmeiPr allowed just one hit and one walk while strik­ing out two of the 11 Spartans batters he faced. 
The highlight of the day came in the top of the ninth, as junior right-hander Danny Tamayo made his first appearance in more than two years. Tamayo, who last pitched on March 1, 1998, before suffering an elbow injury that ultimately required "Tommy John" reconstructive surgery, retired Tony Hardiman on a bunt attempt before serving up a flyout from Rill Johnson. 
Pinch hitter Nick Chaney then walked on four pitches but Tamayo closed out the game by catching Craig Hersey looking at a full-connt, called third strike. 
Notre Dame (5-2) failed to generate any sustained offense, just days after amass­ing :37 hits in three games in the Hormel Foods Classic (at the Minneapolis Metrodome). The Irish managed just six hits on Tuesday, with sopho­more designated hitter Paul O'Toole hitting a solo home run in the third, while rresh­man right fielder Brian Stavisky ended his early slump with two hits in four at­bats. 
Manchester (l-2 l plated its lone run in tho fourth, after Irish junior right-hander Mike 
see BASEBALL/page 22 

By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Ediror 
NEW YORK 

Notre Dame's impressive 23-point victory over Georgetown last weekend was a relief for sophomore captain Troy Murphy after watching his team drop three straight games down the stretch. But it was the news after the game that really made his <lay. 
West Virginia had just beaten Rutgers, dropping the Scarlet Knights (15-14, 6-10) to the No. IO seed in the Big East Tournament and See Also setting up a showdown 
"Murphy sets

with the No. 7 seeded Irish (17-13, 8-8) tonight at standards, wins 
7:30 p.m. at Madison 
Big East player

Square Garden. 
of the year"

Murphy, who hails from Morristown, N.J., was page21heavily recruited by Rutgers and takes a fair share of verbal abuse every time the Irish play the Scarlet Knights on the road. 
''I'm happy to have another shot at Rutgers," Murphy said about the first-round match up. 'Tm looking forward to that." 
And so are the rest of the Irish. Notre Dame suffered its worst defeat of the season at the Louis Brown Athletic Center in mid­January and will be looking to avenge that 25-point loss. 
Hutgers freshman Todd Billet led the way for the Scarlet Knights with 31 points on eight 3-point field goals while Mike Tompson and Eugene Dabney each grabbed 10 rebounds for Rutgers. 
"I guess we've got another shot at them," said freshman shooting guard Matt Carroll, who averages nearly 10 points per game. "Hopefully we can change it !ind have a dif­ferent outcome from the last game." 
"I don't think we could have played any worse and I don't think they could have 
see HOOPS/page 20 


at Big East Tournamenr Track Swimming vs. Rutgers at New York at NCM Championships ar NCAA Zone Diving
SPORTS 

Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Friday-Saturday, 3 p.m. Friday-Saturday, TBA 
ATA 

at No. 8 Illinois CCHA Quarterfinals at BYU
•,=::,) Thursday, 3 p.m. .~ vs. Ferris Srare ~) Sarurday, 3 p.m.
GLANCE rB 

Friday-Sunday, TBA 




