

Red Planet review 
The Florida recount 
This science fiction thriller abandons science 
Thursday
Election suspense continues through the end of 
and logic for special effects and suspense. For 
the week as the candidates and Florida 
more details and more reviews see inside. 
leaders battle the fairness ofthe recount in court. 
NOVEMBER16, 
Scene . page 15 
News . page 11 
2000 
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 56 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Hunger Banquet encourages awareness during national week 
ND survivors share rape stories 
By LAURA UBERTI 
News Wrirer 
Haising rape awareness by sharing their stories was the goal or two Not.re Dame sexual ru:;sault survivors. during Wednesday's Survivor Panel Discussion arranged by Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE). 
Lindsay, a junior, and Kori. a senior, both presented the stories of their rapes and the effects on their lives. Emphasizing not only the horror of the incident itself. but also how they dealt with it, both women said they hoped their talk would help others in similar situations, 
''I'd like to be a survivor rather than a victim." said IJndsay. a vie· tun ofacquaintance rape. 
''Today's discussion was good because it was a different point of view," said James Schuyler, presi• dent of CARE. 
Referring to Sexual Assault Awareness Week's other talks, he said, "Monday was education, Tuesday's perspective was more removed, but [Wednesday night] was about this campus. These are people you can see walking around here." 
Lindsay chose to have sex ,,ith her boyfriend. J,L5on, eight months after they started going out during her junior year of high school. It was a decision she rationalized by telling herself she would later marry him. But as Jason grew depressed and suicidal. their rela­tionship became rocky. She began to consent to have sex with him agairu.i her better judgement 
"I didn't see him as manipula­tive," she said. "l only saw myself as weak." 
She decided to stop having sex with him. One night, at home for fall break, Lindsay said Jason raped her after she refused to have sex with him. 
"He pinned my arms down and raped me. I tried to get up, but I couldn't. I was crying numb, scared tears. I didn't believe it was real. I was frozen," said Llndsay. 
Lindsay said Jason realized Lindsay was shuddering, and he stopped, 
"I drove home in shock," she said. 
Similarly, Kori said she was raped just before fall break of her freshman year. The man had been drinking, and was a friend of a friend, whom she walked home after going out. Despite her saying 'no,' he started kissing her, and then, she said, proceeded to rape her for five hours in his dorm room.·He never looked at her face, she said. 
Both women hesitated to con­front what had happened to them, though they did realize it was rape. 
"I refused to use the word [rape]," said Kori. "I realized it was, but I didn't want to admit that it would impact my life." 
"I convinced myself it wasn't rape," said Lindsay. "Rape isn't 
see RAPE /page 4 


Senate to request 4 study days for next fall 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
Student Senate passed a resolution Wednesday night to 
request four consecutive study days prior to the Fall 2001 
exam schedule. 
McG!inn senator Melissa Rauch said the Academic Council first gave students four consecutive study days because other top-notch universities had week·long preparations before exams. 
"Students argued that we needed four study days because we are Notre Dame and our exams here are just as hard as Northwestern, Harvard and Yale. Now they are saying we only need three, that exams aren't that big of a deal," Rauch said. 
"They say it's only one year and we should deal with it, but it is a big deal. Exams are hard, and we need four days." 
The resolution gave several reason for four consecutive study days. It said students use each of the four days to pre• pare for exams, the absence of a study day is not in the best interest of a students' ability to perform, the exam schedule should be consistent from year to year and removing one study day creates inequity between the Fall and Spring 
see SENATE/page 4 

By KlFLIN TURNER 
News \"lrircr 
Notre Dame leprechaun, Mike Brown, co-hosted "a meal with a message'' Wednesday night in South Dining Hall. 
The Notre Dame Hunger Banquet marks one or the many projects sched• uled during the National Campaign Against Hunger and Homelessness. 
The event was an attempt to bring awareness about impoverishment and hunger. Students who chose to partic­ipate were arbitrarily given tickets that were either green, blue or red. 
Students who separate,
"It just makes you
received green cards exclusive 
represented 55 per­recognize and realize the area, imi• cent of the world's blessing we have." tating the low-income popula• restric· lion and their meal live of
Katie Hinley
was restricted to rice privileged and water. sophomore upper­
Sophomore Katie !Iinley was one of the many students who received the deplorable green card. 
"I think it makes it more real what wn experience on a day to day basis," said Hinley. "It just makes you recog­nize and realize the blessing we have." 
The green card students had to sit on the floor and eat without utensils in efforts to bring to light the destitute conditions of over half of the world's population. 
"I came here to educate myself. I really had no clue about the amount of hunger in the world and how many people are af'Oicted by it," said senior Matthew Quinn. "I wanted to come here and learn more and appreciate the struggles people go through." 
Students who received blue cards represented the "middle­class" 30 percent of the world's population and were allowed rice and beans and either water or coffee. 
The remaining 15 per• cent, comprised of stu­dents who were given a red card. represented tlrn upper-class and were allowed to choose the food and drink of their choice. These select few were even seated in the front of the dining hall in a 
c l a s s 
society. 
"I guess more or less I'm always cheering for sporting events, and there are other things that are important to me. and it's kind of nice to express this in a differ­ent way, to express this enthusiasm and this ener­gy to a different cause ver• sus back•to-school rallies," said Brown. "It's an oppor• tunity for me to express myself or my feelings on another issue besides sporting events." 
Oxfam America's "Fast for a World Harvest" is a nationwide campaign led by students, teachers and other members of the community joined together in hopes of educating and bringing awareness to the world at large. 

A portion of the meals from the bene­fit will be donated the East Timor Action Network, The Center for the Homeless and the HOPE Rescue Mission and Life Treatment Center. 
Thursday, November 16, 2000

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

B-1-N-G-Oval Office 
Electoral College? Nope. 
Popular Vote? Don't think so. 
Bingo? Yes' 
With the election deadlocked and the nation 
glued to their television se1s, the best possible 
solulion to the voting dilem­
ma is a quick game of Bingo. 
Christine Kraly
/\nd could there be a more 
perfect spot in the United 
States to hold the prnsiden­Assistant 
tial playoff than in Florida, 
Managing
the state currently in voting 
Editor 
results limbo? 
Few people realize the true 
skill it takes to be a Bingo champion. Dedication, 
intuition and fast reflexes all come into play. It 
takes a keen eye and patient demeanor to master 
the game. 
Essentially, the same abilities we expect from a 
competent leader we expect from the first one to 
yell "Bingo!" 
Choosing the perfect game card is just as difli­
cult a decision as deploying troops in Kosovo. The 
concentrated player -i.e., leader of the free 
world -nueds enough resourcefulness, knowl­
edge of the game and little round chips to succeed. 
The game could take place somewhere on a 
coast of Florida, where the beautiful backdrop of 
sun and sea would put the candidates in a serene 
Bingo mood. Ideally the event would occur on a 
beach nearest to a bipartisan retirement home, 
the haven for a truly constitutional Bingo session. 
There would be no messy complications that 
the Florida Board of Elections couldn't handle, 
like counting or organizing. One would simply 
have to call out the numbers and wait for the new 
president to emerge victorious. The game would 
be moderated; this time not by a political com­
mentator, but rather the retirement home presi­
dent. (Only appropriate, after all, that one presi­
dent should usher in another). 
Much more fun than tallying votes and holding debates, potential voters could travel to the big event on the coast and cheer on their favorite player. Healizing, of course, the power of the media. the sponsored retirement home would invite television stations across the country to air the face-off. 
This year's televised presidential debates were often dull and, as is the case with many political debates, ironically uninformative. Bingo would offer viewers the drama of every B-6 and N-22 and the chance to see their potential leaders making real decisions -all on the beauty of the Florida coast. 
Every election season candidates spout off theo­ries and proposals to reform campaign finance. The goal is to ultimately reduce the overall amount of money spent on campaigns, numbers that reach into the millions. A regular Bingo game costs little more than $2 for each card. Only in the case ofa tie or overtime match, both very unlikely situations -although this is Florida ­would the cost of the Oval Office decider reach more than $10. 
Most people loathe political rhetoric, especially such staged commentary as campaign debates and town hall meetings. Who doesn't love Bingo? 
The two sweating candidates would relax and wipe their brows if they'd just realize that Bingo is the fastest route to the White House. The candi­date with the best combination of good cards, sportsmanship and quickest response would obvi­ously make the better president. 
Only when we put Al Gore and George W. Bush to the true Bingo test will we learn the fate of the United States and the new president's name-o. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Kare Nagengast Mate Nania Hdena Payne Graphics 
Sports Dana Mangnuson Tim Casey Production Viewpoint Andrew Soukup 
Pac Orlewski Lab Tech Ernesto Lacayo 
The Observer (USf'S )99 2-4000) is publi.sh<!d Monday through Friday ,xcepr during exam and vacation P"riod<. Th, Observer is• member of thr As~ocia,ed l'rr.u. All re-production rights are reserved. 

OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Court charges student in MP3 case 
STILLWATER, Okla. 

The Payne County District Attorney's office spared "downloadable music's first sacrificial lamb" from felony computer crime penalties Tuesday, charging the 19­year-old Oklahoma State University student with one misdemeanor count of unlawful advertisement or offer­ing to distribute sound recordings. Scott Wickberg, graphics design freshman, was charged with using the OSU computer system to unlawfully distribute sound recordings -or MP3s -of Recording Industry Association of America member artists. An MP3, or MPEG layer 3 file format, allows a listener to take songs on compact disc and make near-perfect copies of the music to save in the form of a small computer file. Wickberg, according to the liled charge, had been oper­ating a file-sharing Web site -called "Lucky's" -that allowed others to log onto it with a password and down­load any of the 10,167 MP3s in his collection. Wickberg, will appear in the District Court for Payne County on Wednesday, Nov. 22 to answer the charges. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
"When we look at ourselves, it's about the effort and it is about the  "Wake up, this is your life and this is your country."  "The whole screen was redjust like the Nebraska game."  "We're never going to be happy until we get to nationals, and until we're one of  
accountability to each other."  Tim Russert moderator of NBC's "Meet the Press"  Irene Onyeagbako junior on Election Day television reports  the best teams at nationals."  
Bob Davie head football coach  Jen Handley sophomore  
cross country runner  

Compiled from U.Wtre reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
GOP accuses Marquette students of voter fraud 
AMES, Iowa 
students that it had happened, and the 
The nation's attention was diverted state Republican Party held a press from Florida to a Wisconsin campus, conference Friday and accused stu­where state Republican leaders have dents of (fraud)," said McGraw, metro accused college students of voter news desk editor at the Tribune who fraud in the presidential election. headed the canvass. "So. we looked 
Unofficial Wisconsin results show into it." Democratic candidate Al Gore with a The results were amusing and 6,000-vote lead against Republican alarming, said Tribune assistant news candidate George W. Bush, but GOP editor Brian Sharkey, who assisted in leaders in the state charged the coverage. Marquette University students with According to Tuesday's Tribune, 91 voter fraud in a press conference Nov. students had voted by absentee ballot 10. The charges are being investigat­in their home states and then again in ed by Milwaukee County District Monday, said Michael McGraw, who Wisconsin. Within the state, 44 stu­Attorney E. Michael McCann. headed the canvass. Of the 1,000 stu­dents voted twice, 26 students voted 
After the charges were made, the dents polled, the Tribune staff tallied three times and 13 students cast four Marquette Tribune, the semiweekly 17 4 voters who cast more than one or more ballots.Students reported vot­student newspaper, conducted an ballot in the Nov. 7 presidential elec­ing for cartoon characters, family informal canvass of Marquette stu­tion, he said. members, friends and themselves 
dents by telephone Sunday and "We had been hearing rumors from after they cast their initial vote. 

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
NYU to form first private GA union 
NEW YORK 
New York University and the United Auto Workers (UAW) Monday resolved their differences over the April election to establish the first-ever graduate assistant (GA) union at an American private university. Of the almost 300 ballots that were challenged elections. 156 will be counted in the final tally, NYU and UAW ollicials said. The inclusion of the ballots will not affect the outcome of the election, which the GA union won by 179 votes, 597 ­
418. "Even if they're all 'no' votes, we're still going to win," said Lisa Jessup, an organizer for the UAW who has aided NYU GAs in their unionization drive. The two sides met for more than four hours to negotiate which challenged ballots would be counted. They agreed that the ballots of the 94 Stern students whom the UAW chal­lenged and 62 of the 203 ballots challenged by the National Labor Helations Board should be counted. Jessup said the union allowed some of the challenged votes to count "to expedite things," not bccausn the votes actually are legitimate. 

5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeatrer lbr=is1 foe duytinr conditions and high tempemlllres 
The AccuWeathe,.. forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 16. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day 

·, ,-~.....,..,,~,,~·--~
..-~-----···•·· ' I 
' 
s

i 
I 
Friday! ' q
·:· ·:·
I 
Satur~ay Sunday
,J 
FRONTS; 
.&..A. .....,,_
y-,,­
C, 2000 AccuWealher, hie. COLO WARM .•.;TAT/ONAllY

Mond~y ~ 
,,.,.u,,:
@©DDDDEJD 
High Low Shower• R¦ ln T-•torm• Flurrl1n Snow k;e Si.anny Pl, Cloudy Cloudy

Tue$tlay .·'l Q 
v,, ABt.<X/11<'1/ocl Pte$8

J,.>"'· \.''.' ··J•·'\) '"'•":· ·:· 
.,, 
AlbUQU8fQU9 44 25 Denver 37 12 St. LOUIS 35 25 Allanla 55 44 Los Angeles 55 51 San Antonio 50 44 Boston 50 37 Miami 82 66 San Francisco 60 44


q,~,~q~Q (f -~ ~ 
Chicago 31 22 New York 48 42 Seattle 46 33

Showers T-storms Rain Rurrles Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Clooay Dallas 45 35 Phoenix 66 42 Wash1ng1on DC 46 41
Vi.t A!UOCi;,t~d Preu Graphia.Nflt 


Thursday, November 16, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Professors wonder whether technology helps or hinders 
By NATE PHILLIPS 
News Writer 
Controversies huve arisen over the use of computers in the classroom. Some professors at the University of Illinois claim that an overemphasis on technology in the classroom has harmed substance of the class. 
This controversy can be seen on Notre Dame ·s campus as well, although departments suggest that professors use technology to make their own jobs easi­er. 
"The administration does not force anyone to use technology here at Notre Dame," said Barbara Walvoord, direc­tor of the Kam~b Center for Teaching and Learning. "We suggest professors use technology only if it will help the class." 
English professor Sandra Gustafson agreed with Walvoord. "There is no pressure from the departments for us to use ter,hnology," she said. 
The Kancb Center and the Office of Information Technologies (OIT) offer classes to all professors to help them learn how to use technolugy in their classes. 
The Kaneb Center focuses primarily on teaching professors how to incorpo­rate the technology into their class. while the OIT provides classes that actually instruct professors how to use different technological programs. 
"Both the Kaneb center and the OJT stress not only how to use programs like Powerpoint, but also how to use that technology in the class," said Walvoord. "We emphasis how technolo­gy can really enhance communication between teachers and students. When professors use the listserv, e-mail and the Internet effectively, they can really improve communication in the class­room." 
In today's fast-paced world, the use of the Internet and e-mail helps spread information and knowledge quicker and easier than ever. 
"E-mail use greatly improves the way that I teach my class," said biology pro­fessor Harvey Render. "The students are comfortable communicating via e­mail, and it allows me to communicate with them outside of the classroom." 
Theology professor Basil Davis sees the importance of technology. 
"I use e-mail to send messages to my students," he said. "I also ask them to look up Lests on lhe Internet." 
Many teachers at Notre Dame have incorporated this use of the internet into their curriculum. Professors encourage e-mail communication between their students, and also offer 
review material and  notes  on  the  
Internet  
"I put up sludy questions on  the  

Internet for students to download," said Bender. "Technology personalizes the material to the students. and makes it far more accessible." 
Bender, who has been teaching at the University since 1960. has completely embraced technology as a vital aspect of his classroom. He encourages the use of the Internet, and even places all of his notes for the class online for the students. 
"All of my lectures are on the • Internet," Bender said. "The students can download the material before class, and then fill in the blanks during my lecture in class." 
Bender argues that this method allows students to spend less time scribbling down notes and more time actually li~tening to the material being presented. Like many other professors, Bender believes that technology helps facilitate his teaching. 
"Technology not only helps me com­municate information more effectively, but it also increases class participa­tion," said Bender. "Students are more sophisticated these days. They expect more, and they want more out of their education. Technology makes al! of the difference." 
Bender, who teaches large freshman biology lectures, also uses Powerpoint as an attempt to make his teaching more interesting to the students. The Powerpoint program helps him organize his notes, while at the same time he is able to show movies and pictures dur­ing class. 

"I really enjoy using Powerpoint," said Bender. "It helps make information readily available to large classes. You need to have good visualization in order to effectively convey the information." 
This use of Powerpoint is a far cry from when Bender first began working at the University. When he first arrived in 1960, everything was taught on blackboards. Bender watched as tech­nology increased, and says that he embraces the change. 
"Technology offers much more good than bad," said Bender. "It personalizes teaching." 
On the other hand, theology professor Basil Davis does not use as much tech­nology as Bender does for his lectures. 
Davis communicates with e-mail and the Internet, but prefers to use the blackboard in his lectures. 
"I don't use Powerpoint in my lec­tures," said Davis. "I find that there is a much closer interac­tion with students when a teacher is lit­erally writing in front of them. The students actually get to see the teacher moving. and interacting. There is a constant movement of attention." 
English professor Sandra Gustafson also appreciates the use of the black­board in her lectures. 
"I want to provide a dynamic interac­tive environment," said Gustafson. "Being able to use comments from my students to interpret literature seems to work well." 
Davis, Gustafson and Bender all agree that the purpose of teaching is to effec­tively convey information to the stu­dents. The way that this is accom­plished is a personal decision. 
"It is so rewarding for a professor to see a student be intellectually stimulat­ed," said Bender. "That's our job and that's our purpose as teachers. I think 
that technology really helps accomplish that goal." 
Walvoord said the most important aspect of education for the professors is connecting with the students. She argues that the most effective way of accomplishing this goal is by incorpo­rating whatever method the professor feels most comfortable using. 
"The purpose of technology is to enhance communication between teach­ers and students, students and students .. and students and the rest of the world," said Walvoord. 


Social Concerns Seminar: Theo 366 Spring2001  tltDiCENTER FOR  
SOCIAL  
CONCERNS  


Friday, November 17, 2000 8:00pm to 11:00pm at the Stepan Center 
Free and open to all ND and SMC students and faculty 
Come dance the night away to the music of Son de Aqui! 

• 
> A two-week service-learning opportunity in Mexico: May 15 -30, 2001 

• 
> Students earn one credit (Fall 2001) -> In Mexico, students experience and reflect upon the economic, political, and social realities of Latin America -> Students chosen to participate in the Mexico Seminar meet weekly during the Spring Semester to plan, organize and fundraise for the trip 


-> Knowledge of Spanish is helpful, but not required -> Open to Notre Dame and St. Mary's juniors, sophomores, and freshmen -> The Seminar fee is $500 ($100 deposit with remainder due later) 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING Monday, November 20, 2000 
4:30 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
For more information contact: Joe Lake, 634-4931 Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293

Salsa Dancing Lessons from 8:00-8:30 Free Drinks and Snacks provided 
Sponsored by Student Activities Office and La Alianza 


page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 16, 2000 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
semesters. 
"If students have four days in the Spring to study it is unfair to students in the Fall who only had two," said Farley senator Kathleen Bufalino. "In order for most students to study. they have to spread out their work and they need to take breaks. Students need the four days so they can study intensely for their exams." 
The senate unanimously passed the resolution and it will now be sent to the Academic Council who will make the final decision. If the council agrees with the senate and chooses to give four study days, most likely classes will start a day earlier in August to ensure that students are dismissed in time for the Christmas holiday. 
In other senate news: 
. 
The senate passed a letter to be sent to Scott Kachmarick, director of Student Hesidences, asking for 24-hour space improvements in the residence halls. The letter stated specific dorms that need renovations or need more space to adequately serve the residences of the hall. 

. 
Lewis senator Luciana Heali asked senators to help implement sexual assault programs in their residence halls as soon as possi­ble. Senate passed a resolution earlier in the year to implement 


such programs, but lleali said action needed to be taken before next Fall. 
"Katie Koestner said last night that sexual assault is happening on this campus and students will be assaulted bef'orn the end of the semester. As student leaders it's our responsibility to act now and get the word out," lfoali said. 
Hcali distributed letters the senators could give to their rec­tors and also several contact names so :;enators could plan the programs within their specific dorms. 
. The senate rnceivPd a letter of nomination for The Shirt Coordinator for this year. Thn final approval will be next week in senatc1. 

Rape 
continued from page 1 
supposed to happen when you're not drinking, wearing jeans and a T-shirt, and with someone you love." 
Lindsay and Kori were left in stat.es of shock. 
Kori didn't tell her family w1til two months after her alleged rape, and even then she had a friend call her parents to tell them, being too upset herseU'. 
Lindsay had concerns about sharing her story with even her close friends. 
"It seemed too long and difficult. I didn't want to be pitied, seem like I was looking for attention. or weak. I didn't want other guys to be scared ofme," she said. 
Kori took her case to Hesidence Ufo, where she said she was suc­cessful in getting the man who had raped her to leave school. Both women advised other vic­tims to address the incident either through Hesidence Life or in counseling sessions. 
'There is no standard," said Lindsay. "Even if your case doesn't lit the normal idea of what rape is, it is still valid and believ­able. It's harder to think of rape by someone you know, love, and trust t~:in an assault by a stranger. 
Lindsay advised rape victims first to believe that your rape is true and valid. 
"Seek help; don't try to bear the burden yourself. If you're in an abusive relationship, get out. Don't try to change the person," she said. "If you know of' others who have been raped, be support­ive of them. Listen to them." 
"It's been just over three years and it affects me today," said Kori. "I want to raise awareness about vulnerability. I thought that in the Notre Dame family no one would hurt me." 
Despite Om time that has passed since their alleged rapes, both women feel its effects in their lives. 
"I feel intense nervousness when rm alone in a room with a guy," said Llndsay, never knowing whether the situation will turn dangerous. 
She also has difficulty establish­ing relationships with other guys. 
"I equate my worth by how sat­isfied he is," said Lindsay. "I do what a guy wants more t11an what I want." 
Their alleged rapes have also affocted their roommates, lhends and families who have supported them. 
These secondary victims are often forgotten in survivor discus­sions. 
In taking audience questions, Kori acknowledged that rape is a 

2000-0 I Season Notre Dame Film,Television, and Theatre Presents 

by Eric Bogosian, William Finn, John Guare, Tony Kushner, Marsha Norman, Ntozake Shange, Wendy Wasserstein 
DfRECTED BY SURI SCOTT 
__.... ­
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL RESERVED SEATS S9. SENIOR CITIZENS $8. ALL STUDENTS $6. 


Some themes and language in this play may be offensive to some viewers. 
WEDNESl».Y, NOVEMBER IS THURS~Y. NOVEMBER 16 FIUDAY, NOVEMBER 17 SATUP.DAY, NOVEM6ER 18 
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 19 
TICKETS AAE AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT LAFOtmJNE STUDENT CENTEA. 
M.AsTER.CAAO AND VISA ORDER:> CAl.l. 631-8128. 
bigger problem than prevention for women. 
"It's [more deeply] rooted than that," said Julia Monczunski, junior. "The person who raped you saw only this body instead of a person." 
They also raised ti1e point that qualifying acquaintance rape or date rape, rather than simply acknowledging it as rape, may contribute,to victims feeling reluc­tant to discuss it. 
"By segregating it into two cate­gories, saying date rape makes it seem less valid," said Lindsay. 
By giving talks like these, for example at Freshman Orientation the past three years, Kori has found a way to deal v.ith her rape. 
"I felt I had to make something positive out of an awful situation," Kori said. "My knowledge is a resource, and I need to use it." 
She also is working with Hesidence Llfe to change the poli­cy on rape. 
"By speaking you gain control of the situation," said Lindsay. "By saying how I felt, other people will be helped. And it helps the heal­ing process." 


IDior Class Ill 
Sunday, November 
19th 
9:00pm room 

((,,,, J~Jo,., Jl"t",,l PN5~ 
Please bring acan of food as adonation to the Center for the Homeless 

SEXUAL ASSAUlT AWARENESS WEEK 
WED, Nov. I5' THURS, Nov. I6 FRI, Nov. I7 
SAT, Nov. I8 

Panel of Survivors at 7:00 pm in the Montgomery Theater 
Grotp Prayer at 7:30 pm at the Grotto 
Skit "When a Kiss is NotJust a Kiss" at s:30 pm at the Library Auditorium 
Princes of Babylon Concert at Alumni-Senior Club at 10 pm $3 for ND/SMC students, $5 for non-student's tickets available at LaFortune information desk 
www.nd.edu/--jschuyle/c .gif 


ATION 
Thursday, November 16, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
34 dead, I 1 2 hospitalized after drinking home brew: An illegal, home brew popular among poor Kenyans is being blamed for at least 34 deaths in tw<i Nairobi slums, police said Wednesday. Another 112 peo­ple have been hospitalized. "They started dying this morning, and it has risen ever since," said police spokesman Peter Kimanthi, adding the death toll would probably rise much higher. 
Mad cow disease in France causes concern: Panic over mad cow disease swept Europe on Wednesday, with French chefs aban­doning beef specialties, Italian schools cutting beef from menus and French leaders convening emergency meetings. The European Union even stepped in, waming European governments to intrnsif'y safety controls so infected beef does not make if.:j way to stores, restaurants and kitchens. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Scooter company wins restrainingorder: A Los Angeles company that dis­
. tributes some of the hottest-selling scooters has won a restraining order against rival companies that are accused of a patent viola­tion. A federal judge issued the temporary restraining order Tuesday against 12 compa­nies that make or sell aluminum scooters similar to ones distributed by Razor USA. The judge issued the order at the request of Razor, which sued 16 makers and distribu­tors of rival scooters, claiming the companies violated a recently issued patent on a key design component. 
Scaffold collapse dumps workers: 
A scaffold on the Ambassador Bridge between the United States and Canada collapsed in gusty wind Tuesday, throwing several work­ers into the Detroit River and leaving others dangling from safety harnesses, police said. One man was reported missing. Ten workers were on the scaffold when it collapsed. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Mom abandons baby girl on doorstep: A 21-year-old mother faces child neglect charges for allegedly abandoning her infant girl on a doorstep and leaving a note that said "congratulations." Candace Olden was arrested Tuesday. She was being held on $10,000 bond. Olden is accused of leaving her 5-month-old girl on the doors.tep of Sylvia ruller's home. Fuller discovered the baby when she-opened the door to let her dog out. With the child was a note from her mother saying she wanted to give the infant to Fuller's daughter. 
Market Watch 11 /1 5 

Dow 
10,707.60 +26.54
]ONES 
CompositeUp: Same: r!~t 
Volume:
1,838 497 
~ NIA 

AMEX: 901.74 +2.37 Nasdaq: 3165.49 +27.22 NYSE: 651.09 . +1.ST 
S&P 500: 1389.8 I +6.86 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CISCO SYSTEMS (C:SCO) ,O.K2 ,0.43 53.56 ORI\CLE CORP (U!lCL) +J.78 ,0.50 28.8H WDI\LDCO~! INC (WCOM) -4.()() .o.6H 16.38 INTEL CORP (INTC) ,i.}7 +0.56 41.50 NASDAQ IOO SHAR (QQQJ +2.03 + 1.,3 77.lH 
PERU 

AFP Photo 

Demonstrators marched Wednesday in front of the Justice Palace in Lima. Thousands of protesters marched in the Peruvian capital demanding the removal of President Alberto Fujimori. 
Fujimori's pre-vote power tenuous 
Associated Press 
LIMA 
Two days after ousting a loyalist of Alberto Fujimori as head of Congress, oppo­sition lawmakers named their candidate Wednesday to lead the legislature, threatening to further undermine the president's fading hold on power. 
Also Wednesday, riot police used tear gas to dis-· perse hundreds of leftist­led construction workers demonstrating outside the Government Palace. 
The protesters carried an effigy with two heads ­Fujimori's and former spy chief Vladimiro Montesinos' -inside a cage. Tear gas canisters flew after some protesters -armed with wooden poles and shouting "There is no president!" charged at police. 
The demonstration came after opposition parties agreed to put forward Congressman Valentin Paniagua to replace Martha Hildebrandt, who was removed as Congress president Monday in a 64­51 vote. 
Paniagua will face Congressman Ricardo Marcenaro, the candidate for Fujimori's Peru 2000 
party, in a vote scheduled for Thursday. 
If the opposition gains control of Congress, it will be the first time since 1992 that Fujimori does not dominate the body. 
Meanwhile, a representa­tive of a small opposition party charged that 
. Fujimori had applied for political asylum in Malaysia after his arrival Wednesday in Brunei for a trade sum­mit of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, 
Second Vice President Ricardo Marquez, who is in charge of the government in Fujimori's absence, quickly denied the uncon­firmed charge, made by Jose Barba Caballero, a leader of the Avancemos party. 
Agriculture Minister Jose Chlimper told radio station Radioprogramas that Fujimori planned to fly home early from Brunei to end the political uncertain­ty. He said he called Brunei and spoke _to Fujimori's personal military attache, who said the president was resting, but gave specific instructions to deny the asylum rumor. Chlimper said Fujimori planned to return to Peru via Tokyo. His precise arrival time was not specified. 

JAPAN 
Veteran still haunted by wart are 
notorious Unit 731 to detail Japan's Nomonhan attack, he was responsible

Associated Press 
biological warfare activities for the for transferring dysentery and typhoid 

TOKYO legal record. He was called as a wit­germs from test tubes to bigger jars, 
Yoshio Shinozuka is still haunted by ness for nearly 180 Chinese suing the packing them into barrels, sealing the ghoulish experiments he helped Japanese government for compensa­them and taking them to a night train carry out on captured Chinese civilians tion and an apology for the deaths of for the ·attack. Several unit members and soldiers as part of Japan's top• family members allegedly killed by the died after contracting typhoid. secret biological warfare program dur­unit. Shinozuka said he is still bothered by ing World War II. Shinozuka testified about participat­the vivisections, or surgical experi­
The Japanese military performed ing in the mass production of cholera, ments on living people. vivisections without anesthesia in dysentery and typhoid germs at the "I committed all these war crimes northern China, casually referring to unit's base in the city of Harbin in the because I was ordered to do so," he the people as "logs," the veteran early 1940s. He said he was often told said. "The government should try to recalled Wednesday in Tokyo District to help out departments that needed to learn about the victims. I really think Court. boost germ production for upcoming it's time for Japan to face this issue 
"I remember using the word as we deployments, including the 1939 with humanitarian consideration." compared how many logs we cut that Numonhan clash with Soviet troops Shinozuka said the unit members day with other unit members," he said. near Mongolia and several other germ were prohibited from disclosing to out­
Though Shinozuka, 77, has spoken bombing attacks in southern China in siders what happened inside the unit. out before about his role, his testimony the 1940s. Notes and other written instructions makes him the first member of the He said that just before the were all collected afterward. 

page6 The Obsemer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 16, 2000 


SMC alu01na starts Learn.fun progrrun 
• Community Learning Center opened Nov. 7 as an after-school program for over 50 local kids 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
News Wmer 
A grant proposal drafted by five schools in South 
lfrnd kicked off' the start of' Learn.fun 21st Century 
Community Learning Centers on Nov. 7. The program 
came together with the help of Saint Mary's graduate 
Stacy Davis, the program coordinator. 
Learn.run after school program, based at Kennedy 
Elementary School. reaches out to .the elementary 
schools of Muessel, Studebaker, Harrison, and 
Jefferson. Focusing on first through sixth grade, the 
program provides its over 50 students with tutors and 
enrichment activities. 
The program came to fruition last year in hopes of uniting the neighborhoods and five elementary schools. One of the program's goals is for the students to recog­nize the world around them. 
"We want the kids to realize the world is bigger than 
their neighborhood and bigger than South Bend," said 
Davis. 
The second goal of the program is for students to have fun learning and participating in new experi­ences. 
"We want them to enjoy learning and have role mod­els that they can look up," she said. 
To accomplish the goals of the program, Davis, work­ing along with the program proposal, has designed a variety of components to Learn.Fun. One component allows students to participate in hands on interactive learning aside from class work. 
"On Wednesday we had the Engineering Society of Notre Dame come and present the kids with experi­ments that the kids got involved with," Davis added. 
The program hopes to provide the students with posi­tivo influences and re-enforcements through their interaction with college students who come to the cen­ter and foster relationships with the students in the program. 
"Just to ask the students question about their day and tell them that you have been through something similar can go along way. Helping the kids beyond the classroom material means so much," said Davis. 
The program has been able to pull in student help from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. In cooperation with the education department some students have been able to tutor students in the program, but there are hopes to expand the role. 
"In the future we are looking for ways to bring stu­dents of the program on campus for events," said Sister Linda Kors, director of Saint Mary's Volunteer Services. 
By enriching the children and fulfilling the two-fold goal, the program hopes to spread to the surrounding community. 
"We want the program to cultivate a responsibility in the parents as well as the children. We hope the pro­gram in the Jong run will cutback on crime, poverty, and irresponsibility in the community," said Davis. 
BOG discusses Saint Mary's future 
By AMY GREENE 
News Writer 
Board of Governance member and student trustee, Molly Kahn, met with the Board of Trustees recently to discuss the future of Saint Mary's. 
"The discussion went extreme­ly well." said Kahn to the BOG at ils meeting Wednesday night. 
"Student life. athletics. security and 'Quiet Hours,' [a non-profit book about ghost stories occur­ring at Saint Mary's] were dis­cussed." 
Kahn said the Trustees were 
Notre Dame goes t r i~Y 
1hursday, November M 
Join the ND community in going tobacco-free. 
Turn in yourtobacco products.,anti receive a couponfora FREE turkey sandwich. 
Tobacco products can be turned in at the following locations and times: 311 LaFortune... 9AM-noon, 1PM-4PM. -Huclclle...lOAM to 3PM. 

Reaeem Coupons at: Reckers, Greenfielets, HudaleMart, Decio Commons, Cafe Poch (Bona HalQ, Irish Cafe (Law SchooQ, WactaickS (O'Shaughnessy), Common Stock Sandwich Co. (COBA). 

"energized and enthusiastic to see students" and will meet again in February. 
"There was talk of the master plan aud the Madelcva and Student Center renovations which will be amazing," Kahn said. 
Student body president, Crissie Henner said the Executive Board drafted a proposal to all students regarding the Student Strategic Planning Committee. 
"All on-and off-campus stu­dents will be able to evaluate the current orientation program for first year and transfer students, resid.ence life, and off-campus 
North Dining Hall ... llAM-ZPM. South Dining Ha/1...llAM-ZPM. 
Sponsored by: IRISHealth, Notre Dame Food Services, Alcohol and Drug Education, PILLARS, American Cancer Society 



and abroad residence life," said llenner. "This is our turn to make note of' concerns of campus life." 
In other BOG news: 
. 
Senior Dad's Weekend kicks off this Friday. 

. 
Regina's hall dance is Saturday. 

. 
All students interested in running in student body elections must attend an informational meeting on Nov. 27 or Nov. 28. 

. 
The McCandless llall dance is Dec. 1. 

. 
The sophomore formal will be on Dec. 2. 



l LOW l IStudent l !Airlares I 
J Eurallpasses f 
f. More Than ! 
, 100 Departure Cities ~ 
l --I
j Study Abroad f 
t IC:•. ~ l !~~~u~t][~!~!! 1' 
J 
5 i 
1 studentuniverse.com 1 J 800.2719676 l 

Taste of Nations ·l ;:fl 

' . . . .. ({&J~~~
The International Student Orgarnzauon whtshes to ,extend ~/r.)~o a ,vann invitation to all students to taste the world s he'.'.,t s. \ 
cuisine! International Students will be preparing their 
...----~..country's most traditional ~mJ favorite plates. All studentsJ~;~. ~;• are ,,iekorne to come anu enjoy for only 3 dollars! 
i/• -When'! Fnday, Nov. 17, 7:30prn -9:30pm \Vhcrc·) Center for Social Concern:-. 


Corne Taste The World! 
·:;'r'I' -'~,,
~ ~ 




Thursday, November 16, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
SMC discusses Native Anterican Inascots 
By KATIE MILLER 
News Writer 
The use of Native American masco1s in high schools and colleges across the country perpetuates a stereotype of Native Americans that keeps them marginalized within society, said Susan Alexander and Karen Ristau Wednesday. 
Ristau. vice president and dean of faculty, spoke to the psychological effects the mascots have on Native Americans; Alexander, sociology pro­fessor, spoke about the need to change the structure that perpetuat­ues the stereotypes. 
"In Whose Honor?." a video featur­ing the story of Charlene Teters, a Native American attending graduate school at the University of Illinois where the mascot is Chief Illiniwek, was shown. Teters and her family came to the university from Sante Fe when she was offered a spot in the waduate art program. · Having lived close to an Indian reservation, Teters and her family were very involved in their Native American heritage. 
One night in 1989 while at the 
University of lllinois, Teters took her 
children to a basketball game. Before the game, the mascot Chief Illiniwek came out in a full eagle headdress and costume, wearing war paint; the whole stadium mimicked Native Americans as the mascot danced around to the cheers of the crowd. Teters and her children were shocked. 
"If I had known ahead of time what I know today, I would not have come," said Teters. "As I watched my children sink in their seats, my sad­ness turned to anger." 
The full eagle headdress is sacred as is war paint worn by Native American warriors, who are symbols of respect, not something used to excite a crowd for pep rallies Teters said. 
"If you are not from the community, it would not bother you. But if you grow up with great respect for these things, it is hard to see them being mimicked," she said. 
Teters Legan to stand alone outside of the basketball stadium with a sign protesting the use of Indians as mas­col'i. 
"I did it for my children," she said. "People would ridicule me and spit at me." 
Chief Illiniwek is still the mascot at University of Illinois. 
"Frum a psychological standpoint and speaking for friends, from the viewpoint of Native Americans that I 

$1 paper houses for sale, Wednesday and Thursday at NDH & SDH 
And Help Families Build Their Homes With Habitat for Humanity! 

Professor named influential Hispanic 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Writer 
Hispanic Business Magazine awarded director of the Institute for Latino Studies Gilberto Cardenas one of the 100 Most Influential Hispanics in the United States for the third consecutive time in October. 
"It's especially nice after my first year at Notre Dame," said Cardenas. "I was very pleased." 
Cardenas, also a sociology pro­fessor and assistant provost for the University, described his first year at Notre Dame as challeng­ing, busy and satisfying. 
"l am very pleased with the response here," Cardenas said. "There's a great need to develop institutionalized programs to assist and address changing the needs ofsociety," said Cardenas. 
Cardenas said he is committed to working to meet the needs of the Hispanic and Latino commw1ities in connection with his University programs and research. Recently, Cardenas has w_orked on a research project sponsored by a grant from the MacNeel Foundation in Chicago. The project involves researching the Berwyn-Cicero communities just out­side of Chicago. 
"We need to keep these issues as priorities," said Cardenas. 
Cardenas said the research will reveal the social and economic needs of the people in these communi­ties by surveys on residential life and demographics. He said the project will also include a needs assess­ment, case studies and a "protocol for replication model" so that future groups can follow the same research methods. 
In addition to Cardenas' positions as a professor. assistant provost and with the Institute for Latino Studies, he is active as executive director of the Inter­University Program for Latino Research and as the Julian Samora chair in Latino Studies. He is also on the six-member advisory committee of the Gates Millennium Scholars Program, which provides schol­arships to minorities. 
Cardenas received his master's and doctoral degrees from Notre Dame in 1973 and 1977 and his bachelor's degree from California State University in 1969. 


know and from my own opinion, using Indians as mascots is racist; it makes the world a smaller, darker place. These mascots make Indians seem like whooping, blood-thirsty savages," said Ristau. 
Dressing in llalloween-type cos­tumes to mimic a certain race says that one does not take social problems seriously said Ristau. 
"Native American mascots strip respect We have to respect what is sacred to one another. When we par­ticipate or tolerate Indian mascots. we contribute to mimicking a culture," she said. 
Alexander gave a view from a soci­ologist standpoint. 
"The images have an impact; they are there for a purpose. The reality is they are constructed in a particular way for a purpose by particular peo­ple," she said. 
There is use of Indian mascots in our own community in South Bend said J\lexander. 
"Saint Joe's high school has an Indian mascot. Seeing Indians as primitive and beyond development is one stereotype. The other is the car­toonish character that needs someone to take care of them," she said. "Until we change the social structure, we wi'll not get anywhere. When we objectify things, it is easy to see people as objects and not treat them like human beings." 
It was easier for people to spit on Teters because they did not see her as a person according to Alexander. 
"If you objectify and romanticize a group, you defect from what's going on," said Alexander. 
"Great inequalities exist. According to data from the 1990 U.S. census, while 9.8 percent of whites fell below the poverty level, 36.1 percent of Native Americans are below the poverty level. And for every dollar made by whites, Native Americans make 65 cents," she said. 
"If we don't think of Native Americans as real people.their prob­lems are not real," said Alexander. 
So, what's your money market paying? 

Maybe it's time you checked out ours! 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 

219/239-6611 www.ndfcu.org 800/522-6611 
Independent of the University 

•s1S,OOO rtlinimumopenfng deposit. Annuaf Perceruge Y"iefd (APY) effective as of November 14, 2000. APY is variable. The APY wil change each Wednesday to reftect the weekly treasury auction bond equivalent yield for91-day T-bills. If the dally minimum balance falls below $1&,000 on any given day, 
~®.

a $7.00 roo"!f'll;' maintenance fee will be assessed against the account, thereby reducing earnings ~LENDER 
page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 16, 2000 
VENEZUELA 

Rains, D1udslides cause emergency 
Associated Press 
CARACAS 
President Hugo Chavez late Wednesday declared a state uf emergency in 10 states after days of incessant heavv rains left at least three people dead and 2,400 homeless in the northern coast. 
The emergency forced Chavez to cancel a live-day tour of Central America that was to begin Wednesday. He said he may still attend the 10th Ibero-Americana Summit in Panama, scheduled for Friday and Saturday. 
The rains have raised fears of a recurrence of last year's massive floods and mudslides that killed at least 15,000 people, left tens of thousands homeless and wiped out entire towns in the northern coastal state of Vargas. 

The capital city of Caracas, Vargas and eight other states on the northern coast and to the west 
tude as last year's disaster. and Chavez declared the state of emergency as a precautionary measure. 
"We urge people to be optimistic and calm," Chavez said. "There is 
were declared in a state of' 
"We urge people to be 
emergency. Chavez said optimistic and calm." Vargas has received more 
Hugo Chavez
than twice the 
president of Venezuela
amount or rain this month as it did in November of 
no reason to panic. The situa­tion is under con­trol.'' 
Two people died after mudslides buried their homes and one man drowned after he was swept away by an over­flowing river. 

last year. Rivers swelled, streets became Still, the latest flooding has not streams and mudslides buried reached nearly the same magni-hundreds of shanty homes. 
EGYPT 

Ousted official will return from exile 
Associated Press 
CAIRO 
Former Sudanese Prime Minister Sadiq el-Mahdi announced Wednesday that he plans to return home next week, ending nearly four years of exile. 
But el-Mahdi, whose elected government was ousted in a 1989 military coup led by President Omar el-Bashir, said he would boycott presidential and parlia­mentary elections scheduled for next month. 

After his overthrow, el-Mahdi was first jailed and then kept under virtual house arrest in Khartoum. In December 1996, he fled to neighboring Eritrea. He has since lived mainly in the Horn of Africa nation or in Egypt. He said he will return to Sudan Nov. 23. 
"I think that the elections are really a non-event. Our first activi­ty will be to prove through popu-Jar activity that these elections are a non-event. This is one of the challenges we face," el-Mahdi told foreign journalists in Cairo. 
His Umma Party, like most other opposition groups, believes the December vote is illegitimate, but while other opposition groups are determined to overthrow el­Bashir's government by force, el­Mahdi maintains that he can work to promote democracy within the small margin of freedom available in Sudan. 
CANADA 
Largest gold-mining scandal trial begins 
Asoociated Press 
TORONTO 
A trial involving one of the world's biggest gold­mining frauds started Wednesday despite claims the case against defendant John Felderhof was unconstitutional. 
Felderhof. former vice­chairman and chief geolo­gist of Bre-X Minerals Ltd .. became a multimil­lionaire by buying and selling shares in the Calgary-based company before its collapse in 1997, when an Indonesian gold deposit turned out to be a hoax. 
Felderhof was not in the courtroom and is believed to be at his home in the Cayman Islands. The charges against him involve Ontario securities rules, and Canada cannot sock his extradition on those charges. 
Felderhof is charged with eight counts of violat­ing the Ontario Securities Act, including the sale of $55 million worth of his Bre-X shares while privy to insider information. 
A lawyer for the Ontario Securities Commission 
said in his opening stato­m en t that a paper trail from Calgary, where Bre­X was based, to Indonesia would link the absent Felderhof' to the case. 
"In effect, the prosecu­tion's main witness in this case will be John Felderhof," lawyer Jay Naster said. 
If found guilty, ho could face two years in jail for every count and a fine of three times the ·$55 mil­lion he is said to have gained by selling Brc-X shares in 1996 before it was publicly revealed the company was a fraud. 
Before opening state­ments began Wednesday, Judge Peter Hryn conclud­ed almost a month of arguments on the case by ruling the trial would pro­ceed despite defense com­plain ts that it never received all the informa­ti on it needed. Hryn ordered all relevant docu­ments be turned over to Felderhof's lawyers. and said he would decide on the constitutionality of' the charges after the trial. 
The charges were the first by Canadian regula­tors against Bre-X or any of its former executives. 

Free ND Foam #1 Fingers 
To All Students Who 
Come Support OUR #l 
Women , s Soccer Team 
Against Harvard 
Friday Night at 7 • 00
• 

Alumni Field 
It's Round 3.ofthe NCAA Tournament. Come Watch the Irish Destroy Harvard (formerly known as the Notre Dame of the East)!!! 
Bush calls Gore's proposed statewide hand recou~t 'arbitrary' 
Thursday, November 16, 2000 
The Observer . ELECTION 2000 page 9 
presidential race. to overtake Bush, who holds a
Associated Press 
The two clashed long dis­300-vote lead in the decisive tance -and on national TV -state.
Al Gore made a surprise pro­after Florida's Republican sec­With their futures tied up in
posa I for a statewide hand retary of state rejected a knot of legal battles, Bush
recount of Florida's G million niquests from the counties to and Gore called for a quickballots Wednesday night and update presidential vote totals eud to the contested electionGeorge W. Bush swiftly reject­with the results of hand but disagreed on how to do it.ed it, calling the effort under 
recounts underway at Gore's "Our goal must be what iswav in several Democratic­
urging. The vice president is right for America," the viceleaning counties an "arbitrary counting on the ballot reviews president said at his officialand chaotic" way to seltle the 
NEW 
FOR SPRING 2001 
3-CREDIT BEGINNJ;NG CHINESE LANGUAGE COURSE 
A less inense version of the 5-credit first year Chinese 111 
Call# 4747 
EALC 101 01 BEGINNING CHINESE I Prof. Chengxu Yin MWF 12:50-1:40 
Introduction to the fundamentals of modern Chinese with equal emphasis on speaking, listening, reading and writing. In addition to the Pinyin romanizarion system, students are expected tomaster a soken vocabulary of about 180 words. Offerred only in the spring, this is the first of a three-semester sequence covering the same material as EA.LC 111-112 but at a less intensepace. Students who have completed the EALC 101-102-103 seqence will be able to take second year Chinese together with those who have taken EALC 111-112. Not open to students who completed EALC 111 or higher. 
Administrative Assistant East Asian Languages & Literature East Asian Languages & Literature 205 O'Shaughnessy Hall 205 O'Shaughnessy Hall 631-8873 University ofNotre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-8873 
mansion iu Washington. "This process must be fair, 
this process must be accurate, 
and this process must be 
final," Bush said from the gov­
ernor's mansion in Austin. Their evening addresses capped a whirlwind day of legal activity that gave both weary camps tastes of victory and defeat -but no clear road 
to completion. 
The Florida Supreme Court, all Democratic appointees, rejected a request from Republican Secretary of State Katherine Harris to block any manual recounts while the courts decide whether the process is legal. 
The high court's ruling, though far from the final word, gave Democrats new vigor in their ballot-by-bal­lot bid to trim Bush's 300­vote lead in the state. Officials in Broward and Palm Beach counties hun­kered down for an excruci­ating hand count of 1 mil­lion ballots. 
But the secretary of state later announced she would not accept the hand-count­ed ballots, calling the coun­ties' reasoning "insuffi­cient." Harris vowed to cer­tify the Florida election results Saturday without the hand recount totals. Gore's lawyers said they will challenge her decision Thursday. 
In another front, Bush's lawyers filed a 182-page appeal in a federal appeals 
court in Atlanta. The Texas 
governor lost a round Monday 
on his move to shut down the 
recounts in Palm Beach, 
Miami-Dade, Broward and 
Volusia counties. 
Legal matters aside. both 
presidents-in-waiting launched 
fierce public relations cam­
paigns in the court of public 
opinion. They wanted to look 
prepared to serve, but not 
hungry for power. 
"This is the time to respect 
every voter and every vote." 
Gore said from his official resi­
dence, framed by pictures of 
his family. 
Gore pledged that, if Republicans allow manual recounts to continue in Florida's Broward, Palm Beach and Miami-Dade counties, he would accept without chal­lenge whatever tally those recounts should yield -added to certified results from 64 other counties and overseas absentee ballots due by mid­night Friday. 
"I will take no legal action to challenge the result, and I will not support any legal action to challenge the result," Gore said, offering to, drop the threat of major Democratic liti­gation that has hung over the proceedings for days. 
He suggested a meeting with Bush before state officials cer­tify the results "not to negoti­ate, but to improve the tone of our dialogue in America." 
And he said both candidates should meet again after a win­ner is declared "to close ranks as Americans." 

=--SOU11-I B{;NO'g BIOG~ PA~Y< 222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND• 219.234.5200 
$1 COVER (WITH COWGE ID, MUST IE 21) AND LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO, CAU. ntE HEAlffl.AND CONCERT&. MNT UNE 2l9,251.2568•MORE PIClURES ctWWW,HEARlU.NDSOUTHIEND,COM 
1LB. WEDNESDAYS 
>&wt o/2oioe of11.B ofOtf)O le_j~ tiO§, Ot /IIYtfti(J... 12.99 
ryqy tlini'!J" 01.11 in fJ D!f Wf)_y withJwiry ChOffo d!fle gfeg/:§ ill hnie-/i-eg rlownfow11 fotJtA Bl!llrl. Pwllllfl 8o/2ait to 8tentlet ll'/e/; flll exl.lf.l !/;;of: t-OOM ot otJt .ffJBOi81(¥, 12 oz. of(/§£)A fJtime !tlBW >Gt!: dtif Ne/iK. !l§Net 0/JCiOIJ~ loo. 
222 S MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND 219-234·520 . 
WU 

Calendar of Events 
November 6-27 103 Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #32 (Dec. 1-2, 2000) Targeted Dorms: Car.roll, Cavanaugh, Fisher, Knott, Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford, and Welsh Family 
Friday-Saturday, November 17-18 
Gay/Lesbian Undergrad and Friends Retreat 
Friday-Saturday. November 17-18 Moreau Seminary 
ROTC Freshman Retreat 
Sunday, November 19. 1:30 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. John A. Herman, csc 
Monday-Tuesday, November 20-21, 11 :30 pm-10:00 pm St. Paul's Chapel. Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, November 21, 7:00 pm Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday. Novembaer 21, 7:00 pm Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Confirmation-Session #5 
Wednesday, November 22, 10:00 pm Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Thirty-third Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, November 18 Mass 
5:00 p.m. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c. 
Sunday, November 19 Mass 
10:00a.m. 
Rev. John H Pearson, c.s.c. 

11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Timothy R. Scully, c.s.c. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  Dt 12: 1-3  
2nd Rea~ing  Heb 10: 11 -14,18  
Gospel  Mk 13: 24 ~  32  

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 16, 2000 
What's on your Spiritual "To Do" List? 
by Frank Santoni 
0 Go to college. 0 Choose major. 0 Workhard. 0 Make great friends. 0 Change major. 0 Have time oflife. 0 Change major. 0 Meet man/woman ofdreams. 0 Graduate. 0 Get job in real world. 
There you have it: the standard "Things To Do" list for the average turn-of-the-millennium college student. Sounds simple. Looks doable. With some room for originality and che occasional diversion, this is the general game plan for most of us once we get to Notre Dame. Right? Well, not quite. 
So far what's been described above as the successful college career could be attained at almost any institution of higher learning. There is nothing unique about the "To Do'' list above that distinguishes it as one belonging specifi­cally to a Notre Dame student. How does being at Notre Dame, and not at Lest we meander about on any other university or college in the 

our journeys of faith with

world, affect our personal hopes and goals? Where does the Catholic charac­
no destination in mind, we 

ter of our university fit in to the mix? I mean, isn't it safe to say that, come must chart our own graduation day, each of us expects to 
spiritual path just like we 

leave here with a diploma in hand, a job offer lined up and a healthy relationship map out our semester with strong fiance pocemial? After all, if 
class schedule-unsure of

college is anything, it is a training ground for life after college. So if you what we'll learn but can manage to graduate with a degree, a 
certain of its importance.

job, and a candidate for lifelong partner status, you can consider yourself success­ful and your mission accomplished. Right? Well, almost. 
Whac about our faith lives? We are clear about what our goals ought to be in every other area ofour life. Bur whac do we hope to "accomplish" during our four years at Notre Dame when it comes to our lives offaith? 
Ambition seems to have no place in a discussion about our spirituality. Setting goals and 
listing priorities sounds appropriate when we're referring to our academic and professional careers, but it sounds funny when applied to our faith. Funny-sounding or not, our spiritual lives demand the same kind ofdeliberateness from us that we invest in our other pursuits. Lest we meander about on our journeys of faith with no destination in mind, we must chart our own spiritual development just like we map out our semester class schedule: unsure ofwhat we'll learn bur certain ofits importance. 
Each of us muse set about determining what it is we need to help us deepen our own relationship with God and our understanding of our faith. We must seek out the people and resources that can help us. We must set aside regular time to spend nourishing our faith and nurturing an intimacy with God. We must actively participate with others in prayer and worship. We must commit ourselves to living out the Gospels everyday, in small ways and in large. 
Now would seem like the appropriate time to insert a pitch for a Campus Ministry pro­gram or a retreat designed to help you get these things done. The truth is no such program exists. The best retreat we could dream up would only get you starred or help you along your way. The fact is chat maturing as a Christian takes a very personal, lifelong commitmenc to culcivating an intimate relationship with God, just like it does with any meaningful relation­ship. Deepening our understanding of our faith takes dedication to studying and learning about the beliefs and traditions of rhe Church, just like it does in physics or literature. 
Bue what better time than now to begin or to strengthen a commitmenr to live a life of holiness? Talk to a trusted friend, priest, rector, or Campus Minister ifyou need a jump starr. Whatever you do, make it mean something that you graduated from Notre Dame. Take advantage ofour rich Catholic tradition while you're still here. Do what it takes to leave here with a firm grounding in your faith and a closer relationship with God. 
.. 

Simply put, we are each called to know God and make him known. Put that on your "To (lMPUS Do" lisr. MINISTRY 
Thursday, November 16, 2000 The Observer . ELECTION 2000 page 11 
Ha. official denies hand recounts, Bush holds 300 vote lead 
Asoociat«l Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 

florida Secretary of State Katherine Harris rejected requests from Democratic-lean­ing counties Wednesday night to include the result of hand recounts in presidential vote totals. George W. Bush opposes the ballot revie.,,vs and Al Gorn favors them in their battle for the White House. 
The state's chief elections officer. sharply criticized by Democrats in recent days as a parlisan Republican, declared it was "my duty undu Florida law" to reject requests that four counties submitted earlier in the i:iay. 
Harris noted her decision was subject to an appeal in the courts -and minutes after her announcement Gore lawvers and spokesmen said · the Democrat will be back in state court -probably Thursday ­to challenge. 
"It's an outrageous decision," Gore spokesman Mark Fabiani said. "lt's a rash decision and it won't stand." 
If it does stand. additional vote recounting done Wednesday would not figure in the state totals -and Bush would have a 300-vote lead with an unknown number of absentee ballots to be counted by midnight Friday. 
Democratic lawver Dexter Douglass said the ·Gore camp will likely return to a state judge in Tallahassee who ruled in the case Tuesday. Circuit Court Judge Terry Lewis had put Harris on notice that she needed good reason to deny late vote filings. 
Gore campaign chairman William Dalev criticized Harris' decision as premature: "There was an attempt to bring a cur­court in Miami earlier this tain down,'' he said. week. 
Harris' announcement Broward County conducted capped a tumultuous day in hand counts Wednesday and which the state supreme court was set to resume Thursday refused to stop hand recounts despite Harris' announcement planned or underway in the and a GOP request to stop three heavily Democratic coun­counting. Canvassing board ties. Chairman Robert W. Lee said 
At the same time, however, a late Wedn·esday: "Well. then let federal appeals court in Atlanta her get a writ of mandamus [a agreed to consider the Bush court order] to make us stop." campaign's attempt to halt the Palm Beach County election new canvasses. officials were set to meet 
The 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Thursday afternoon to decide Appeals' unusually rapid deci­how to proceed with county-s i o n wide hand Wednesday to counts. accept the "The reasons given in the A lawyer in 
case could Harris' oflicc,
requests are insufficient 
launc.h the speaking on
to warrant waiver 
controversy condition of 
firmly on its ofthe unambiguous anonymity. way to the filing deadline ... " said thev 
U.S. Supreme expect a for·­Court. mal contest of 
Katherine Harris
Bush, in an the election 
182-page Florida Secretary of State -something appeal filed that can only in federal happen after court in Atlanta fate the vote certification Harris Wednesday, said that granting announced Wednesday night. the injunction to stop the hand Florida's 25 electoral votes counting in Florida would "not will settle the presidential elec­substantially injure the rights of tion. the defendants.... and will Harris stepped to the micro­clearly advance the public phones to make her announce­interest." ment seven hours after a 2 p.m. 
The appeal seeks to stop the deadline she had set for coun­hand counting in Palm Beach, ties to petition for the right to Miami-Dade, Broward and update their returns. Volusia counties in Florida She said four counties had because, Bush argued, the done so -Democratic-leaning action violated the constitution­Broward, Palm and Miami­al rights of Florida voters by Dade and GOP stronghold conducting a manual recount of Collier -and she had reviewed ballots limited to four heavily their paperwork. Democratic counties. "The reasons given in the 
There was no word from the requests are insufficient to war­court when it would hear the rant waiver of the unambiguous appeal. Earlier, the court said filing deadline imposed by the that all 12 of its judges would Florida Legislature," she said, hear Bush's challenge. Bush without further elaboration. lost a similar bid in federal Earlier in the day, Harris led 
ATTENTION ALL OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS 
Rutgers Game Watch at 
BW'3s 
$1 All you can eat WINGS 
(for the first half) 
Door Prizes!!! Starts at 3:30 PM 
*Sponsored by your Off-Campus Council & BW3's 
the parade to the Florida Supreme Court with an early­morning lawsuit ask­ing the jus­tices to block the hand recounts at least tem­porarily. and to consoli­date elec­tion-related lawsuits. The court turned her down with­out a hear­ing. 
The Bush campaign has fought to stop the recounts on several fronts. 
Former Secretary of State James 
A. Baker III argued on Wednesday that the "process is unfair, gives rise to 
In the aftermath of the election 
Events since the Nov. 7 U.S. presidential election: 

Nov. 7 
¦ 
After premature proIections of a win for Gov. George 

W. 
Bush and Vice President Al Gore, a decision is stalled by a mandatory vote recount in Florida, triggered by a less than 0.5% margin 


Nov.8 
¦ Democratic voters in Palm Beach County, Fla.. say confusing ballot caused them to vote for Reform Party candidate Pat Bllchanan instead of Gore It ,s revealed that the ballot caused more than 19,000 votes to be disqualified 
Nov.9 
¦ 
Gore's team requests hand count of ballots in four Florida counties 

¦ 
Circuit judge issues an injunction barring Palm Beach county officials from certifying final recount 


Nov. 10 
¦ Statewide recount ends with Bush leading Gore by 327 votes, according an an unoffical AP tally 
Sunday 
¦ 
Palm Beach County board asks for hand recount 

¦ 
Bush's team goes to federal court to seek a halt to the manual counts 


·¦ Volusia county begins hand count; local officials seek to extend deadline of 5 p.m. Nov. 14 for finishing the recount. 
¦ Broward Co. decides against full hand count 
Tuesday 
¦ 
Country circuit Judge upholds deadline 

¦ 
Palm Beach county suspends hand count, then votes to resume counting Nov. 15 

¦ 
Palm Beach circuit court judge decides to hear challenge that poor ballot design led to misvotes after five other judges had recused themselves 


Wednesday 
¦ 
Florida Supreme Court upholds hand counting of ballots, refuses to consolidate all lawsuits 

¦ 
Federal appeals court agrees to hear Bush arguments to stop recount, sets 7 a.m. Thursday deadline 


Friday 
¦ Deadline for absentee ballots to be counted 

human error, gives rise to the potential for great mischief." 
Baker lamented the prolifera­tion of lawsuits. saying the situ­ation has "run amok now." 
Warren Christopher, the for­mer secretary of state chosen to lead Gore's recount. defended the legal strategy. "We simply must, in order to protect the rights of the vice president in this matter. enable us to take steps that seem warranted," Christopher said. 
In rejecting Harris' suit, the justices, all chosen by Democratic governors, did not address the many other election-related legal challenges making their way through Florida courts. 
The Bush camp noted that the state high court's one-para­graph rejection slip did not address the substance of Harris' request. The court left open the option that Harris could sue in a lower state court. or make her arguments another way. 
The state high court agreed to review complaints from two South Florida counties -Broward and Palm Beach ­that say they are confused about how to proceed with recounts. Harris and state Democratic Attorney General Bob Butterworth have given the counties conflicting guidance. The counties are suing both. 
f acu It {j 
The Univernily oj Notre '!Jeni• tleperlment of Muoic pr••·"" 
Chamb{Zr Mu$iC 
Conc1Zrt 
Ticki;:ls S3 §tud-znts S6 §1rniors 
program includizs S81i®/§MC piano trios SlO fr(l by §chub1Zrl, availabli;: at thi;: 
:Brahms & Mi;:ndrzl;;;;ohn
bafortuni;: :Box Offici;: or chargi;: by phoni;: (219) 631-8128. 
Maria i)IBb\ein. piano; Carolyn PlulT!J"llw.', \1 iclin~ & Kar!ln ~u.ran~Kei~. eiz.l!o 
2 pm, ~unday, Nov~mb~r 19, 2000 
1lnn1Znb1Zr3 1luditorium, ~nit!l Mus1Zum of '(lrt 
t2Q N<irth Mam St. (fl@) 255•1137 
Mishawaka, •. lnomna 46544 
.. Foor.: (119) 259•9579 

Restaufant· 
T.J. Laughlin
General Manager Class of 1973 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Thursday, November I6, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
I' 0. Box Q. Notre Darnc. IN 46556 024 Sou<h Dining Hall, Nurre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Tim Lane  
As'IT. MANAGING EO!TOR  OrERATI0NS MANAGER  
Chrisrine Kraly  Brian Kessler  

Nt.ws EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly V1F.WPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey S1•01tTs EIJJTOR, Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amond:i Greco SAINT MARv'S EOITORI Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Eliza.beth Lang 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pac l'et.,rs Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINIS7RATOR: Mik<: Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OHIO: MANAGfH/GENERAL INFO...........63 I-747 I FAX.................. . ...........................631-6927 
ADVERTISING..... ..................63 l -6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EmTOR IN CHIEF.. ....................................631-4 542 MANAGING EmrnRIAssT. ME ................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu Vll'Wl'OINT................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........ ........................... 631-4543 observer.sporrs. I@nd.edu 
SCENE. . .................................. 63 \-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.. ......................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu Pnom...... .................... , .... 631-8767 SYSn:MSIWEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire a1 http:llobmver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as wdl as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from rhe Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rares of prim ads 
cial cunpus coverage 

archives to search for 
ahoul The Observer 

articles published after 
ro meet rhe editors and 

Augu.sc 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhc scudents of rhc Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editori;1l content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither insrirution. The Observer reserves the righr 10 refuse advertisements b=d on content. 
The news is reported as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assis1am Managing Ediror and departmmr edirors. Cummcncaries, lec1crs and columns presenc rhe views of rhc authors and not necessarily rhose of The Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available co all readers, The free expression of.JI opinions through lmers is encouraged. Lc:tters to 1hc Editor muse be signed and must include contact information. 
Q.11,>twm ugardmg Ob,,r~erpolicies ;houLd b, dirm­,dlo /:;airor ,n ChiefMik, Connolly. 
DILBERT 
OUR. STR.ATEG'( IS TO DETECT ANY TRENDS AND REACT 
ACCORDINGLY. 


\;r l 
--\J (:
J ( 
I 
~ ( 
.. 
_._,.-.-,.. -. -. 
..,..,..,.,:.,~';!". .. 
• -.-, •. -.-.• A,tr,:..·.-~, -..-.:­
.. \.f,:-·.-:.-..,._.....-:.-;.-::.,-.,.~' .c 
Untangling the political m~ss 
What an election! What an exciting time to be a part of democracy! Thank God that modern technology has saved us from the uncertainty and nail-biting that marked the elections of 1876 and 1960. As a regis­tered Florida voter 
Joshua Kirley
who never made it to the polls last Tuesday, this elec­tion has left me Swift's with several Confederate thoughts. 
1. Don't tell me every vote counts, then not count every vote. 
It seems vote counting is a refined. well-regulated process of estimating, approximating and sorta kinda round­ed guesswork. Of the 67 Florida coun­ties, 55 received a drastically different total after recounting, In all, they for­got to count over 3;700 votes. When the other 12 counties were pressed for an explanation, they could only mutter something about "coincidence." Some counties counted ballots that did not exist. These county election commis­sioners produce commercials and mass-mailings, saying, "Every vote counts," then they don't count every vote. Results are given based on an estimate of the miscounted non-absen­tee ballots. A new president is declared eight days before all the votes arrive (and that's a day after the networks.) 
2. My friends matter. 
I know about 300 people that voted for the same person. So, in essence, my buddies picked the leader of the free world. And, that's pretty cool. 
3. Let's stop rocking the vote. 
The problem with democracy is that it's too democratic. Millions of dollars are spent trying to increase voter reg­istration and participation. We don't need more voters. We need more­informed voters. Don't go to heavy metal concerts. NASCAR events and Ultimate Fighting championships to register voters. If people are too lazy or 
uninformed to make a qualified deci­sion, stop guilting and pestering them into voting. It is not in the country's best interest to have one of these "eeny meeny miney mo" voters (who only registered to get a free "Eat my shorts man" T-shirt) dilute the decision of an informed citizenship who would speed­walk three miles past free cheesecake just to pull that lever, 
4, The notion of a voting age is silly. 
I remember waking up on my 18th birthday. I didn't know any more about political issues or parties than when I lay my spinning head down to sleep the night before. 
5. Bring back the literacy tests. 
II' age can't determine suffrage, then use knowledge. This country is full of idiots. I have no problem with them reproducing and playing lawn darts, but don't let them vote. Originally, lit­eracy tests were intended to disenfran­chise blacks. The modern version will be objective, universal in application and succeed in disenfranchising only the most accomplished and demonstra­tive of morons. 
Perhaps, have them spell or identify the name of their favorite candidate. Color? Number? Some people simply should not be allowed to vote. I am not speaking in generalities, I can provide names. These are good friends. Several of my students voted in this past election. On the surface, this is a good thing. But, I teach freshman in high school. Now, I love every one of these kids, but I wouldn't want them choosing my breakfast cereal, let alone my next president. 
6. It seems one county in south rlorida has developed a ballot to weed out these people. 
No matter how technologically advanced this process becomes, we will never vote psychically. Therefore, votes must be counted according to the name on the voter's ballot, not the name in the voter's otherwise absent mind. 
7. Don't ever concede victory. 
A football coach once told me this. Obviously, Gore never participated in football or any other coordination­dependent activity (such as combat). Conceding doesn't make you a better loser or a better winner, no matter how many times you do it or undo it. Just scrap the whole stupid formality. 
8. Stop the polling. 
I remember roaming the halls of the Manor at 2 in the morning, trying to scare up enough guys to play snow football. Twenty guys would give me the same response, "If you can get enough people out there. I'll play." II' 20 guys are waiting around for those first 19, nobody moves. This same unfortunate phenomenon plagued Nader's Green party. No person wants to be irrelevant. lfocause polls por­trayed Nader voters in this light (not a totally unfair characterization), we will never realize the magnitude ol' his impact on the American voter. 
9. The reason I can't make sense or the Electoral College is because it makes no sense, 
Finally, I know that I am a terrible person for not voting and therefore have no right to an opinion or oxygen supply. But, I have never voted in my life and haven't been burned yet. I didn't even vote for myself when I ran for class treasurer back in 10th grade. And it didn't matter then either. I was defeated by more votes than Gore needs in Florida. Unless the difference in the final, final recount is one or zero, I wisely sa'v'.ed on gas again this year. 
Joshua Kirley is a member of the class of '99. lie currently lives and teaches in Cape Coral. Florida. lie can be reached at MrKirley@aol.com, 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not rieces­sarily those of The Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 


ISN'T THAT EXACTL'( THE SAME AS NOT HAVING A STRATEGY? 
"Our great democracies still tend to think

HEY, THIS 
that a stupid man is more likely to be'

SLIDE DIDN'T MAKE ITSELF. 
honest than a clever man, and our politicians take advantage of this prejudice by pretending to be even more stupid than nature made them." 
Bertrand Russell writer 

L_____ 
VIEWPOINT 
THE Thursday, November 16, 2000 OBSERVER page 13 
Feeding our faces with greed 
At many monasteries the monks take their 
meals in silence. They are served from a com­
mon bowl and they eat every last morsel. 
Such eating is a form of meditation and a 
form of praise. The idea in practice is mind­
fulness and it shapes their 
very days. 
At meals in the dining 
hall, we throw away entire 
muffins. untouched bowls 
of cereal, tall glasses of 
orange juice and slices of 
pepperoni pizza -finish­
ing your plate is the excep­
tion not the rule. We 
think we own our food 
and we think that there 
is an endless supply of it. 
We have been trained, 
above all, to be good con­
sumers, confusing who 
we an~ with what we .own. But "the day is 
coming," Paul Cezanne 
writes, "when a carrot freshly observed will 
spark a revolution." 
What would happen if we paid the awe­
filled heed of a bald-headed monk when sit­
ting ,down to sup? To begin, we would save 
food. This week the students working for 
hunger and homelessness awareness tell of 
our waste. They tell us that every day Notre 
Dame throws away the equivalent of 10 to 12 
dumpsters of food from the refuse ot'the tray 
lines. During an average night's eating, stu­
dents throw away about 1,300 cups of rice. 
We arc but a part of the whole. Americans 
are wasteful. We drive SUVs with World 
Wildlife rederation bumper stickers. We 
leave the lights on and the water running. We 
are a part of that wealthy 15 percent of the 
world that uses 75 percent of the world's 
bounty. And we use with fervor and convic­
tion. 
At the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore we 
shop to a soundtrack of muted hymns. confus­
ing the pilgrim and the shopper. In 
Lafortune, we learn from our fast-food cul­
ture that good meals are like Whoppers ­
fast, processed, individual and wrapped in 
trash. We learn that there is always some­
thing further, something finer, something 
faster, something new. It is not enough to be 
present to a meal, or to a place -the goal is 
to go and to get. The slow-jawed monks 
remind themselves with each deliberate bite 
and journey into taste and texture that every­
thing they have is a gift and a beauty and rare 
indeed. 
Eating, that most quotidian act, is a good 
beginning for mindfulness. A few years ago 
some friends of mine staged a protest at Saint 
Olaf College. They stood in the dining hall by 
the trash and ate the unfinished food off of 
their classmates' plates. They ate sandwich 
crusts and apple halves. They finished bowls 
of chili and ice cream cones. The protest, one 
student relates, was humbling and powerful. 
The students eating were forced to put their 
ideals into the most earthly action. The stu­
dents throwing away their food were forced 
to see their friends cat their trash. It was ter­
ribly awkward. No one could look the other 
way. We can. 
The technology which affords us such sweet 
comforts as kiwis in the middle of November 
is also comforting. It is comforting not to plant 
or pick or plow the land to grow an ear of 
corn. It is comforting not to know the callous­
handed men and women who do. It is com­
forting to eat what you want, when you want. 
with whom you want -no awkward lulls in 
conversation, no time Jost stirring a pot of 
stew or scrubbing a pan clean when you 
could be "doing" something. It is comforting 
to never know the sensation of hunger. It is 
comforting to place your dining hall tray on the line, turn heel and walk away. What hap­

pens to that uneaten eggroll? Is it composted? Are there Dickensian beggars in the base­ment who will -please sir -finish it? What happens to the pizza slice I took. and, then. recalculating the caloric extravagance, left on my plate untouched? Do the size of my thighs justify such waste? Should l have simply reconsidered (a difficult thing to do with aisles and islands, bins and buckets of so many kingly choices) and left the pizza slice on the pan? Of-course I should have. 
The food that is left in the dining halls at the end of the day is taken to local community pantries and soup kitchens. The food that we take onto our plates and do not eat is thrown away. It is thrown away like so many Grab 'N Go bags, like so many polystyrene ND cups with "Reduce, Reuse, Recycle" imprinted on them. [tis thrown away without thought. But the economy of things demands more of us. 
We do not have to see the families who swallow our waste, but we ought to remem­ber them. The huddled masses are worlds (two, by most people's count) away. They rummage for fruit rinds in the trash bins of Tijuana and Dehli, not North Dining Hall. Oh, but we are close. In our lifetime 95 percent of the world's population growth will be in developing countries. What will we do if they all follow our lead and gobble up every tree, chunk of coal and chocolate chip muffin in their way? It's hard to believe while wearing Nike light-as-a-feather Air shoes. but the numbers remain: An average American child walks on the earth 23 times heavier than an African child, uses that many more resources. 
But finishing the muffin you take is not only a matter of economic consciousness. The saint's admonition -that the shoes in your closet that you do not wear be taken to the poor -is only true to a point. You don't have to be an ascetic or a monk or a bore, be mindful as an artist (of this muffin you are eating, this day you are living, this cigar you are smoking, this Charlie Parker playing). Cezanne painted still lifes and imagined car­rots sparking revolutions. He watched the world in wonder. 
We are not ready to stop, to keep watch. We move at a dizzying pace through a world that is, as Hopkins writes, "seared with trade; bleared, smeared with toil." Perhaps we are being poor lovers, then. Satisfying our hunger with greedy anonymity -not being present to the sun, the light, the growth, the death, the travel and the toil that is heaped on our blue and gold rimmed plates. It is no small coinci­dence that eating and the erotic are so often linked in literature. Would you marry a man who only ate turkey on white, who couldn't handle spice? Would you want to kiss a woman who gobbled her meal up mindlessly, unable to linger or savor? Where is the love in this daily ritual that connects us to the land, in our breakfast, lunch and dinner? 
We are fleshly, bodily beings, shaped by our actions. So we must act rightly and well in the most ordinary bits of the most ordinary days if we are to become grand lovers or poets or saints in the end. 
We will finish our muffin, then, in honor of its beautv. in honor of the hands that made it and in honor of the fact that most of the world doesn't have the luxury to be picky eaters let alone throw their food away. We will practice mindfulness. We will say with Wendell Berry, the poet and farmer. "l have taken in the light that quickened eye and leaf, in the brief blaze of motion and of thought, may I be worthy of my meat." 
Mary Margaret Nussbaum is a senior PLS 
major. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dating happens under the Dome 
Troubles with dating? Maybe Cm in the minority that was spo­ken ofin yesterday's "Inside Column," but I am in a long-term, long-distance relationship and trouble is not a word that comes to mind in describing it. Challenging -yes, hard -some­times fun -definitely rewarding and worthwhile -without a doubt. 
I see college as the most oppor­tune time to build lasting friend­ships and romantic relationships. When else in your life will you be surrounded by poople with whom you share so many similarities? 
Yes, we are all changing, but this will not end when we gradu­ate from Notre Dame. We change throughout our lives and it is the people we love that help us when we need it and love us through good times and bad. 
Anything we do could be viewed as a waste of time, depending on who you ask. If you ask me, dating and finding that one special per-· son is anything but. By sharing in a loving relationship, you are allowing yourself to be vulnerable. trusting, faithful but most of all, happy. 
I realize not everyone is looking to fall in love during their four years at Notre Dame, but don't shy away from it or deliberately close a door in your heart. Instead, smile on your way to class, be friendly, and oh yeah, get your work done. But amidst it all, cultivate relationships with God, family, friends and that special someone. 
I promise. aner your four years here, it will be these relationships that have the greatest and most last affect on your life. 
Angela Chiappetta 
sophomore 
Lewis Hall 
Nov. 14, 2000 

Go Palestine! 
A group of Alumni Hall residents hung a cleverly designed banner from their window during last Saturday's Boston College game, but hall administrators demanded the banner be removed, saying it was "offensive." 
The banner simply stated, "Go Palestine!" and included a rough depiction of a football game. Football oriented banners draw atten­tion on game weekends. It was a clever way of drawing attention to an important and timely issue for all Catholics concerned with international justice. 
The National Conference of Catholic Bishops is scheduled to dis­cuss justice for Palestine this Thursday, Nov. 16, in Washington, D.C. The bishops' discussion will focus around a proposal from Cardinal Bernard F. Law of Boston, who chairs the Conference's international policy committee. 
Cardinal Law's proposal states that "a just peace demands ... the establishment of an internationally recognized Palestinian state." The proposal is significant because it is the first time the bishops have used tho word "state" instead of the more frequently used and ambiguous term. "homeland." Go Palestine! 
Like Cardinal Law, the Aiumni Hall residents who posted the ban­ner displayed courage in making a statement on a controversial issue. Alumni Hall administrators displayed cowardice in caving to a complaint that the banner was "offensive." 
Shouldn't Notre Dame be leading Catholic discussion on Palestinian justice, not censoring it? 
Joe Markey class of '89 Charlestown, MA Nov. 15, 2000 


AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 

Photo courtesy of DreamWorks SKG 
Will Smith, now starring in "The Legend of Bagger Vance," lost $60,000 at a Las Vegas casino. 
Smith loses money gambling in Vegas 
LOS ANGELES 
While in Las Vegas preparing for "The Legend of Bagger Vance," actor Will Smith mastered the greens -but he lost a lot of green, too. 
In the December-January issue of Maximum Golf, golf coach Hon Del Barrio said he and Smith spent a week in Las Vegas, hitting both the links and the gaming tables. While the trip did good things for Smith's swing, the tables were another story, Del Barrio said. 
After Smith lost $60,000 in about 20 minutes, Del Barrio said Smith vowed it would never happen again. "Hon," he said. "I guarantee you this -you will never sec me gamble again." For the rest of that trip and during several subsequent visits to this gambling Mecca, Smith apparently held to his word. 
Del Barrio said he asked Smith how he resisted temptation. Smith's rnsponse: "That's how I am, I learn a lesson and I don't for­get it." 
Dinosaur named after 'Jurassic Park' author 
HALEIGH, N.C. Michael Crichton. who brought dinosaurs to life in his best-selling novels, now has a species of the real thing named after him. 
Dinosaur specialist Dong Zhiming, lead researcher at Beijing's Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, said he chose to honor the author of "Jurassic Park" and "The Lost World" because of the popularity of Crichton's works in China. 
Dong presented casts of skull bonns from the newly identified dinosaur to Crichton during a ceremony Tuesday at the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences. 
"Crichton's ankylosaur" is a small. armored plant-eating dinosaur that dates to the early Jurassic Period, about 180 million years ago. Dong, who identified the species with fossils discovered 62 years ago in southern China, believes it walked on two legs. 
"For a person like me, this is much better than an Academy Award," Crichton said at the ceremony. 'Tm honored that he's named a new species for me." 
Davis and wife receive Screen Actor's Guild award 
LOS ANGELES 
I Iusband and wife Ossie Davis and Huby Dee, who have often col­laborated on screen, will be honored next year with the Screen Actor's Guild lifetime achievement award. 
Davis and Dec, married for 52 years, will receive the honor at the acting union's awards show March 11. 

MOVIE REVIEW 
By MEG RYAN 
Scene Movie Critic 
Thirteen-year-old Jamie Bell makes his movie debut as Billy Elliot, the youngest son of a widower in a small mining town in northeast England. 
One day while at weekly box­ing practice, he sees the girls' ballet class and is drawn towards the music and danc­ing. Mrs. Wilkinson (Julie Waters). the ballet teacher, sees Billy's potential as he steps up to the bar between the girls in their tutus. Billy doubts whether or not to keep skip­ping boxing and attending bal­let class for fear that the other boys and his family will find out about his new hobby. 
Despite his father and broth­er's disapproval, and with the help of Mrs. Wilkinson, Billy continues to dance. Billy becomes very close with his dance teacher, who becomes a mother figure to him. She adds pressure to Billy's life, but does so because she sees an oppor­tunity for Billy to escape the seeming destiny of all the men in the town: working down in the pits. 
Set during the miners strikes of 1984, Billy lives in the midst of a chaotic world. Both his father and brother are part of this effort, but they are con­stantly disagreeing over the ultimate goal of the strike. The police swarm the town daily. Billy has also just lost his moth­er and must assume responsi­bility of taking care of his 
. 
grandmother. When he can't beliefs. handle all of the pressure, he Billy's brother (Jamie lets loose and dances, as if he Draven) commits his full heart were flying. to the miners strike. Dravcn 
Jamie Bell brilliantly cap­portrays the role of' the young tures the role of Billy. Ile puts revolutionary with passion and so much emotion not only into intensity. the dancing but also into the Mrs. Wilkinson's motives, character of' this however, don't confused, young always seem boy. It is amazing "Billy Elliot" as clear. She is to see so much a dark. unhap­depth in such a 
py woman, young character. and she is One can't help unsatisfied but be caught by out of five shamrocks with her life. his irresistible lier desire to smile and open Director: Stephen Daldry help a young outlook on the boy that she
Starring: Jamie Bell,
world around doesn't know him. Julie Waters, Gary Lewis and seems pecu­
The film fea-Jamie Draven 
turcs well-shot scenes that range from strike riots to Billy's dance 
numbers. The scenes in the town show nothing but brick walls and streets, adding a con­strictive feeling to the town and the lives of those who reside there. In contrast, the scenes of Billy dancing create an open­ness that expresses Billy's escape into a moment of com­plete freedom that finally belongs to him. 
One of the strongest aspects of the movie is its depth of character. Billy's f'ather (Gary Lewis) tries to do the best for his family but struggles to find what exactly that is. With his job on the line and with no money, he searches to support both of his sons, who have very different goals, and goes as far as to compromise his own liar. Billy even 
goes as far as 
to ask if' the reason she devotes her time to him is because she fancies him. As her character comes to light, she develops into a woman that, although unhap­py, has not given up on the opportunities the world has to offer. She still linds beauty in her dark life. 
The supporting characters add to the film's chaotic envi­ronment and also lend a bit of' humor. Billy's best friend explores the world of cross­dressing and proves to be one of the few peoph~ supportive of Billy's dancing. 
Set amidst a serious set of circumstances, "Billy Elliot" has a rare mix of' comedy and drama. The balance of the two extremes creates a movie that touches every emotion. 

"For more than half a century, together and individually, Ossie Davis and Huby Dee have enriched and transformed American lite as brilliant actors, writers, directors, producers a.nd passionate advocates for social justice, human dignity and creative excellence," said the union's president, William Daniels. 
Love movies? Want to 
Davis and Dee met during a Broadway production in 1946 and rnarriPd two years later. They made their lilm debuts in "No Way Out" in 1950 and costarred on Broadwa.v in "A Haisin in the Sun." Their other collaborations include "Hoots: The Next Generation," 
write about them? E-mail 
the PBS series "With Ossie & Huby" and Spike Lee's "Do the Right Thing" and "Jungle Fever." They have been active in social causes including black voting rights a.nd sickle-cell disease research, and they participated in the 
Scene at scene@nd.edu.
Hcv. Martin Luther King Jr. 's 1963 March on Washington. 

Thursday, November 16, 2000 page 15 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Sci-fi flick 'Red Planet' isn't very deep in space 
By MATT NANIA Scene Movie Editor 
"Heel Planet" takes itself pretty seriously for a mo\'ie that asks the viewer to stow all notions of science and logic. 
In the year 2057, mankind has overpop­ulated and pretty much trashed the Farlh. so the government wants to move everybody to Ma.rs (never mind that Mars is only half tlrn size or our home planet). So for the past decade, unmanm~d probes containing oxygen-producing algae have been rocketed to the red planet to help create a breathable atmosphern. 
But satellite observa­"Red Planet" them from Earth. tions show tlrn algae has 
For the record, AMEE 
somPhow disappeared. so looks too much like a stop­the first manned mission motion piece of computer to Mars is on its way to fig­animation; but the bigger 
ure out what went wrong. out offive shamrocks problem is that she seems 
Led by Commander Kate to go nuts for no reason
Director: Antony Hoffman
Bowman ("The Matrix's" other than that she sensed 
Carrie-Anne Moss), the Starring: Val Kilmer, 
a void in the narrative. So astronauts on board Carrie-Anne Moss, Tom AMEE turns into a cun­include mechanical engi­
ning terminator with a neer Gallagher (Val Sizemore and Terrence Stamp 
taste for swooping down Kilmer). old and wise C:hantillas (Terrence Stamp, "Star Wars: Episode J"J. cgomaniacal biologist Tom Sizemore ("Saving Private Ryan"). hot­hcadr,d pilot Benjamin Bratt ("The Next Best Thing") and civilian Simon Baker ("L.A. Confidential"). 
After a few shabby getting-to-know-you scenes to pass the six-month rocket jour­ney, Moss and crew arrive in orbit just in time to be smacked with an inexplicably random and contrived "burst of gamma radiation," which knocks out most of the ship's systems. Forced to launch their lan­der early. the five-man crew leaves Moss behind to affect repairs while they crash­land on \1ars. 
In one of the movie's many superb spe­cial effects sequences, Bowman has to put out a fire on the mother ship while the live guys crash-land on the surface and then bounce off a mighty precipice in what looks like a giant beach ball. 
So all but Bowman end up on the plan­et's surface, which means Moss spends much of the movie looking worried in a tank lop. 
The stranded astronauts try to spark up soqw group dynamics, and after briefly threatening to sound like grown-ups, they resort to the usual behavior or action­movie characters; bullying and mouthing off at each other like teenagers in a delin­quent movie. 
Everything starts going wrong. The habitat that was supposed to be waiting for them has been destroyed, two of them arc dead within live minutes of screen time, and the three remaining are being hunted by AMEE, a robot that the crew brought with 
on crew members and mangling them. 
First time director Antony Hoffman's movie -which seems to borrow from not only "2001: A Space Odyssey" but also every sci-fi expedition movie ever made -is passable enough. Iloffman skillfully balances the movie's sometimes hack­neyed absurdities with a convincingly other-worldly and semi-futuristic visual milieu, some genuine tension and awe­some effects sequences. But while he's tops in those regards, he can't seem to shoot a simple conversation, and his edit­ing is abrupt. 
As far as acting goes, only Moss and Kilmer escape with their credibility intact. 
As the lone female, Moss is of course called upon to do the obligatory nude scene (PG-13 nudity, mind you), but she turns in a performance very reminiscent of Sigourney Weaver's Hipley in the "Alien" series. She spends the whole pic­ture on the ship, but this sharp and darkly self-contained actress is more fun to watch than anything on the red planet. 
And the occasionally arrogant Kilmer is surprisingly subdued as the humble hero willing to sacrifice all to save his fellow Americans. 
Overall, "Red Planet" thinks it's both more intelligent and more exciting than it really is. But taken as a popcorn-munch­ing Saturday matinee, it's pleasantly entertaining -and much better than "Mission to Mars," a similar big-budget sci-fl spectacular that stunk up theaters in March. 
Burdened a little by its high suspension­oJ'-disbelief factor and masquerading sci­ence, not to mention its poor pacing and protracted plot line (the presence of the lame killer robot is not a bonus, either), "Red Planet" at least keeps the audience enveloped in its story. So while a few of the scenes provide real tension and some dynamic action, "Red Planet" is hardly the stuff of sci-Ii dreams. 


VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
'Falcon' showcases a classic Bogart performance 
alleys, illicit money, dangerous
By MARIO BIRD 
women and hard liquor. Mary
Scene Movie Critic 
Astor plays Brigid 
O'Shaughnessy, the prototypical 
There is a superlative group of femme fatale, beguiling Spade film characters that are embla­with her seemingly helpless cir­zoned upon the public's percep­cumstance as well as her knock­tion of an actor's image. Such is out physicality. When Spade's 
the case with Humphrey Bogart's Sam Spade, the 
"The Maltese 

sly, quick-wit­ted protago­
Falcon"

nist of "The !\1 a I t e s c I-a I c o n " Director: John Huston 
(1941). 
Starring: Humphrey Bogart,
"Falcon," directed by Mary Astor, Peter Lorre and a cc Iaimed Sy"ney Gre,ms1ree•
auteur John u ' lluslon. not only marked the emergence of Spade in partner is shot and killed by O'Shaughnessy's former cohort Floyd Thursby, who suffers a sub­sequent death, Spade must find 
the culprit to both 
murders to prove his own innocence. 
lnevitablv, it is O'Shaugh.ncssy who implicates 
the nefarious plot 
Bogart as a box-ol1ice attraction, involving former partners-in­but also the establishment or the crime Joel Cairo (Peter Lorre) detective tilm in the early 1940s. and Kasper Gutman (Sydney Staying true to its label as the Greenstreet). The four are after 
definitive film noir, "Falcon" the legendary Maltese Falcon, a implicates most of the motifs gem-encrusted 15th Century associated with the genre: dark relic of inestimable value. 
Huston's primary theme is the lights. Huston's screenplay maxi­greed involving the Falcon's mizes the talent of the support­pricelessness, and its permeating ing cast: Lorre is at his scum-of­effect on the shady persons the-earth best as the both involved. O'Shaughnessy, Cairo pitiable and violent Cairo; 
and Gutman are all revealed to have this trait as their singular pur­pose. while Spade's morals are in question throughout the movie. 
W h i I e "Falcon" has a few noticeable blunders within its 100-minute screen dura­tion, such as sloppy editing and unclear motives early on, they arc for­givable with respect to the acting the movie high­Greenstreet's calculating Gutman resounds as the consum­mate criminal intellectual; and O'Shaug­hnessy's shal­low character is blatant through Astor's performance. 
Bogart, how­ever, steals the show -and rightly so. With the possible exception of his roles as the scarred Rick in "Casablanca," and later the down-to-earth

"The Maltese Falcon" is 
Mr. Olnott in

available to rent on video. 

"The African Queen," Spade is the fedora-laden, trench-coated Bogart that most cinema afi­cionados remember. From his witty, manipulative banter with his three co-stars, to his brazen treatment of the police, Bogart creates the hard-bitten private investigator about whom Tom Selleck could only dream. 
The later scenes of "Falcon," which involve a struggle for command between Greenstreet and Bogart, are a delight to watch. Greenstreet and Bogart's contradictory physiques nicely complement both the balance of power and the underdog gam­bles Bogart takes as the sudden­ly potent outsider. 
Because Spade immediately pigeonholes O'Shaughncssy as a deceitful, desirous female, Bogart's role as the ladies' man appears a bit l1at and underde­veloped at times. However, it hardly detracts from his perfor­mance. As Greenstreet himself says of Bogart, "By Gad, sir, you are a character." 
Friday, November 3, 2000 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
St. John's leaps into AP poll, Notre Dante re01ains No. 15 
Associat~d Press 
With three freshmen in the starting lineup, St. John's was supposer! to take some time to rnjoin the Top 25. 
I low about two games? 

The H1~d Storm. which b1~at Kentucky iu the opening round of the Coaches Vs. Cancer Classic and then lost 82-72 to Kansas in th11 championship game, jumpnd intu The Associated Press' college b,15ketball poll Monday at No. 24. 
Freshmen Omar Cook. Kyle Cutfo and Willie Shaw -all New York natives -started against Kansas along with Anthony Glover and Reggie Jessie, the only starters back from the team that was ranked No. 9 in last sea­son·s tin al poll. 
Cook lived up tu his hype as one or tho top recruits in the cow1try. but Cuffl' and Shaw were right with bim in the title-game loss. 
"They were probably thinking uf' themselves as freshmen, guys usually asked just to be specta­tors," St. John's coach Mike Jarvis said. "It finally dawned on them that not only were they being a.skP.d to participate. they were capable of participating. Botil of them anr going to be excellent basketball players." 
Jarvis hil5 high expectations for the team. 
"I see a group of guys who real­ly, rnally compete," he said. "I see a team with unbelievable poten­tial and I see the makings ror a heck ofa basketball team." 
... 
Arizona. Duke and Michigan State. thn top three teams in the prnseason poll, held those places in the first regular-season poll, while Kansas moved from sev­£,nth to fourth. 
The Javhawks beat UCI.A and St. .John's in stretching their win­ning streak in November to 31 games, a run dating to a 1990 loss at Arizona State. 
UCLA, which finished third in the Coaches Vs. Cancer Classic, moved from 17th to No. 14, while Kentucky, which lost to St. John's 
and UClA and started a season 
0-2 for the first time since 1975­
76, dropped from 12th to 20th. 
The only other ranked team to play on the sport's opening week­end was North Carolina, which dropped one place to seventh despite winning the NABC Classic with victories over Winthrop and Tulsa. The home games were North Carolina's first under Matt Doherty. who replaced Bill Guthridge and became the Tar Heels' third coach in five seasons. 
Arizona received 35 first-place votes and 1,538 points from the nationwide media panel, while Duke was No. 1 on 21 ballots and had 1,522 points. 
Michigan State. which opens defense of its national champi­onship next Sunday against Oakland, had five l'irst-place votes, while Kansa«; had one. 
Stanford: Maryland. which had the only other first-place vote; and North Carolina all dropped one place from the preseason poll and were followed in the Top Ten by Illinois, Tennessee ancl Seton Ital!. 
Neither Arizona nor Maryland plays this week, but the other Top Ten teams will all get start­ed. Duke plays Princeton on Tuesday night in the opening round of the Preseason NIT, while Stanford (San Francisco State), Illinois (Maine). Tennessee (Chattanooga) and Seton Hall (Hider) all open their seasons Friday night. 
Florida again led the Second Ten. followed by Utah, Connecticut. UCLA, Arkansas, Notre Dame. Cincinnati. Wake Forest, Wisconsin and Kentucky. 
The final five ranked teams were Oklahoma, DePaul, Southern California. St. John's and Virginia. 
Iowa State, which was 25th in the prcseason poll, dropped out despite not playing a game. The same thing happened last year to Miami, and the Hurricanes returned to the rankings for the final two weeks of the regular season. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righ, IO edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 4/5 bedrm. 3 blocks to campus. nJ-486-8822 
3,4 & 6 BDRM HOMES. FURN. NOW & 2001-02. 272­6306, 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2001-2002 10 BEDROOMS­4 BATHS 3 KITCHENS 
5 BEDROOMS 2 BATHS 
GREAT FRONT POACH BOTH HOUSES HAVE WASH­ERS, DRYERS AND ALARM SYSTEMS 
CALL KRAMER 234-2436 OR CELL 274-1501. 
FOR SALE 
1993 Ford Explorer (2 door) Manual 4-wheel drive 66,000 miles call: 784-8303 or 219-232-5557 Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. AU new, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 
VOTE FOR NOTRE DAME IN TOURNEY OF TRADITIONS! Go to http://promotions.go.com/espn/ tostitos/frontpage.html and vote for ND in ESPN.com's Tourney of Traditions! Vote now for ND to advance through the top 16 to win No.1 for the school with the best football tradition. While you're thre, enter for a chance to win a trip for up to 10 people lo the 2001 Tostitos Fiesta Bowl in Tempe, Arizona. Go ND! 
High-Speed Copies, Color Copies, Binding, Fax Service, Resumes, Business Cards, Laminating & More! At THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY Free Pick-Up & Delivery! 
NO PLANS FOR THE HOLi-DAYS? NEW YEAR'S? Vacation in Chicago for $22/night. Stay at Hostelling lnt'I -Chicago. Call 312/360­0300. www.hichicago.org. 
PHONE CARDS 
$20 1558 MIN. 
CALL 284·5145 or 258-4805 
#1 Spring Break 2001 NCancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica, Florida & S. Padre. Reliable TWA flights. Best Prices. Earn $$$ or FREE trips-call for details! 1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentexpress.com 

WANTED 
Retail positions available at UP Mall 20 seasonal sales associ­ates needed. Full & Part lime positions available Flexible hrs. for your convenience. Avg. $7• $18/hour. Outgoing personality, sales experience a plus 340-3761 
FAX IT FAST!!! YOUTH DIRECTOR needed Sending & Receiving At First United Methodist At THE COPY SHOP Church in S. Bend. 8-12 LaFortune Student Center hrs./wk. $100/wk. Call 233· Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 9463. FAX IT FAST!!! Ask for Dan or Jen. 
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVEL­OPMENT CENTER PAID & VOLUNTEER OPPOR­TUNITIES Earn money and build resume experience while interacting with delightful young children. The Early Childhood Development Centers at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, are currently accepting applications from college students for part time employment positions beginning immediately and for next semester. The hours vary, including MWF 12:30 p.m. ­
1:30 p.m. and MWF 9:30 a.m. -11:30 a.m. If you are inter­ested in applying, please con­tact Kari Alford, Program Director at ECDC-SMC, at 284­4693 or Thayer Kramer, Program Director at ECDC-ND, for more information and an application. 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: MAN'S WEDDING RING IN SOUTH DINING HALL AREA ON MONDAY, NOV. 13. PLEASE CLAL KEITH AT 1-6147. REWARD!! 
LOST: GOLD HEART & C.Z. See, here I am thinking I'll get BRACELET AT ND-BC GAME, to go home early tonight SECTION 32. GIFT TO MY WIFE, HUGE SENTIMENTAL Nope VALUE. IF FOUND, PLESAE CONTACT ME@ Hi Sam! Here's your classified ­DUBE.1 @ND.EDU is it going up on your wall? 
Lost: Silver mustard seed necklace. VERY IMPORTANT. If found, call Kate at 634-3697  If you add a line to your name you get mine This would work if your name was Don  
PERSONAL  But it's not  

So it's been 8 days This is my stick • there are 
many like it but this one is mine Who's the next leader of the free world? What is your major malfunction 
deaded walnut? Still counting 
Did your momma drop you on Sometimes camouflage just your head when you were a doesn't work. baby? 
Big time props to Ruckman -Seven-Two-Six millimeter. Full on a Wednesday night, no less Metal Jacket 
I'm happy, I'm happy ... and I  Only nine more days of math'  
like it!  
4A's gonna be rocking this  
Dawn and Carrie say they have  weekend  
a standing request  
NoJo il,l God's give to women  
Consider this a standing classi­ 
fied ... hehehe  Thornberg is God's gift to NoJo  


Thursday, November 16, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
May suspended for 20 games 
reckless use of his stick in
Associated Press 
this instance. "It is fortunate Mr. Heinze
NEW YOHK 

did not suffer a more seri­
Phoenix Coyotes left wing ous injury. The message to
Brad May was suspended 
all players in the NHL
for 20 games by the NHL on should be clear: the act of a
Wednesday for a slash Lo player striking an opponentthe head of Columbus for­in the head with his slick
ward Steve Heinze, 
will carry severe conse­
The suspension matches 
quences."

the f'ourth-
M a y
lungest in 
will beNHL history 
"! have to be held eligible
for an on-ice 
violation and accountable. " to return 
Jan. 4
will cost May 
against
almost 
Brad May 

the New$120,000 in 
Coyotes' left wing Y o r k
salary 
Heinze needed nine stitches on his nose but was not seriously hurt. May received a match penalty for attempt to injure in the Saturday night game and has sat out the two games since the infraction. 
May met with Colin Campbell, the league's director of operations. in 
Toronto on Tuesday.  
"I  have  to  be  held  
accountable,"  he  said  
before  his  hearing  with  
Campbell. ''I've never  gone  
after  anybody  like  that  
before in my career."  

"Honestly. I just wanted to tap him on the arm," May told the Arizona Republic. 
lie apologized to Heinze after the game. Heinze said he accepted the apology. 
"I told the trainers. "Stitch me up quickly, boys. I'm on a power play," he told the newspaper. 
Campbell said that while May "has not previously been suspended by the league for a supplementary discipline incident. he must be held accountable for the 
Hangers. 
.. I think it was a very harsh suspen­sion. We're going to miss him terribly over the next 18 games," said Coyotes general manager Bobby Smith, adding that the team made its case to the NHL on Tuesday and has 
n o "The message to all play­23 games 
a v·e nu e ers in the NHL is clear for abusing for an officials and
the act ofstriking an
appeal. coming out 
"I cer­opponent in the head of the penal­t a i n I y with his stick will carry ty box to 
hope the 

severe consequenses.
[Marty] 
McSorley 

incident Colin Campbell 
h a d NHL Director of Operations
nothing to do w i t h this," Smith said. "I think it had to do with the fact that the league decided this year to lower the bar on this type of incident." 
Blue Jackets general man­ager Doug MacLean told The Fan, an all-sports radio station in Toronto, that the stiff penalty was necessary. 
"Careless with the stick is a problem. there's no doubt about that," MacLean said. "Steve Heinze only got nine stitches on the end of the nose. but it very well could have been an eye or it could have been a broken _jaw or is could have been some­thing more serious, 
"I guess it comes to a point that it's unfortunate for Brad May. but maybe it's good for everybody to see how severely this is going to be treated." 
Under the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, May will forfeit $117,647 of his salary. The money goes to the Players Emergency Assistance Pund. 
Mcsorley is currently sit­ting out one year for hitting Donald Brashear in the head with his stick Feb. 21. Gordie Dwyer of Tampa Bay was sus­pended for 
Dale 
fight in an exhibition g a m e against the Washington Capitals this past Sept. 19. 
Hunter of the 
Capitals sat out 21 games for hitting Pierre Turgeon. who was celebrating a goal. during the 1993 playoffs. Tom Lysiak of the Chicago Blackhawks was suspended for 20 games for tripping an official in 1983. 
Most ND Students Make Healthy Choices I 
·a. ~ 
i 
f
::::J 
'iii 
.e 
i 
l 
t 
I 
t 
More than 80% drink only once I a week or less frequently. 
i 
s

Many ND students choose NOT to drink alcohol.* J 
A message from PILLARS with Alcohol & Drug Education 311 LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame (219) 631-7970 http://www.nd.edu/~aldrug/ 

NFL 
Leaf might start Sunday in place of Harbaugh 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
Ryan Leaf could pla:y Sunday when the San Diego Chargers go to Denver looking for their first win. 
Coach Mike Riley implied Monday that Jim Harbaugh would start against the Broncos because he was the Chargers' healthiest quarterback despite having a mild hernia. But Leaf popped back into the picture on Wednesday despite his slightly strained left hamstring. and now there's a chance he could end up starting. 
Leaf and Harbaugh took the same number of snaps in prac­tice and Riley will wait until later in the week to announce the starter. 
"I don't want to make a final decision right now because Ryan has obviously entered into this thing healthier than we antici­pated," Hiley said. 
Leaf was listed as questionable on the injury report but said the hamstring felt pretty good. 
"The way it felt today. by the time Sunday comes. with the adrenaline and being hyped up fol' the game. I don't think it will be a problem," said Leaf, who's had a turbulent season filled with injuries and poor play. 
Leaf was hurt sliding at the end of a scramble late in last Sunday's 17-7 loss to the Miami Dolphins, which dropped the Chargers to 0-10. Leaf was booed both when he replaced injured starter Moses Moreno (sprained knee) and when he limped off the field. 
Harbaugh played the final 1:12 and served up the last of four Chargers interceptions. Moreno was picked off twice, Leaf once. 
Riley has said that quarterback is the most pressing question for the Chargers' future, and that they need to see as much of the embattled Leaf as possible. 
~I want him to play some, yeah," Riley said. "But I don't want to hurry it. I want to make sure before we do anything. 
Soldier Field to receive $587 million renovation 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
After nearly 30 years of negoti­ations, threats and foot-drag­ging, the Chicago Bears and city officials agreed on a $587 million renovation of Soldier Field that will add 17 acres of parkland and facilities to complement three nearby museums. 
The Bears will pay $200 mil­lion and the remainder of the project's costs will be covered by bonds that would be retired by the city hotel tax. 
"After years of false starts, we finally have a plan that works for 

The easy, hassle free way to fly. 
Fly to Orlando/Sanford• Portsmouth, New Hampshire• St. Louis/Belleville, IL • Philadelphia/Allentown, PA 
,~,~~/&iii>"' 
• FREfP~~ing • Easy access to all highways • Convenient • Secure 
For Pan Am: 1-B00·fLY·PANAM www.flypanam.com For More Information 
www.garychicagoairport.com 
H~f &iuth NU~ !\Hemm S.Oil.n &r4 i.itdi.i'trm MlJ$17 
Chicago taxpayers, children and families. the museum. the Park District, the Bears and their fans," Mayor Hichard M. Daley said Wednesday at a news con­ference to unveil the plan. "And it won't cost the people of Chicago a penny." 
People using Chicago motels and hotels will pay for most of the renovations if the Illinois Legislature approves a bond rev­enue plan to be presented during its present veto session. The Illinois Sports Facilities Authority needs legislative approval to increase its bonding authority. 
The Bears, who have a $100 million loan from the NFL for stadium improvements, plan to recoup their expenses with a still undetermined personal seat license fee and the possi­bility of adding a corporate name to Soldier Field, Bears president Ted Phillips said. 
"The Soldier Field name will remain, that was part of the deal." he said. 
Outside the stadium, there will be a 250-foot-long granite water wall to honor military veterans, a wintertime sledding hill, a 2,500-space under­ground parking garage and a visitor center for the nearby 
Field  Museum.  Shedd  
Aquarium  and  Adler  
Planetarium.  





Thursday, November 16, 2000 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
WORLD CUP QUALIFYING 
American men escape elimination after routing Barbados 
Associat~d Press 
Wi\TERFOHD. Barbados 
Everything was going wrong 
for the United States. World Cup 
elimination was 27 minutes away 
and the opponent in the yellow 
uniforms played more liki1 
mighty Brazil than lowly 
Barbados. 
Enter Joe-Max Moore -and just in time -creating an easy goal for Oint Mathis in the 63rd minute that started the belated American rout. 
Earnic Stewart, Cobi Jones and Ante Razov added goals, and the Americans beat Barbados 4-0 Wednesday to advance to next year's regional finals of World Cup qualifying. 
"We had to win," Mathis said. "I think the guys did a great job with the pressure." 
Now the United States advances to a final group that includes Honduras. Jamaica, Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago. and either Costa Rica or Guatemala. The top three will advance to the 2002 tournament in Japan and South Korea. 
"I know we're good enough to qualify, and we will do that," Moore boldly predicted. 
It was the first time in 11 years the United States faced an elimi­nation game in World Cup quali­fying. since the Americans won at Trinidad and Tobago to qualify for their first World Cup in 40 years. 
Playing in the Caribbean or Central America. on bumpy fields, with blustery winds and often-hostile crowds, is far differ­ent rrom stadiums in the United States. Barbados National Stadium didn't even have a scoreboard. 
A rainbow appeared IO min­utes before gamelime on a humid, overcast afternoon that had intermittent light rain. Fans were singing to calypso music, hoping the Bajan Hockets, ranked just 102nd in the world, could upset the United States, ranked 18th. 
And after a first half that saw Mathis hit a post in the 36th minute and get stopped by goal­

keeper Horace Stoute on a point­
blank shot in the 39th, the 
Americans had grim, tight faces 
when they walked off at half­
time. 
"Today seemed harder," said 
U.S. goalkeeper Tony Meola, playing a World Cup qualilier for the first time since that 1989 game at Trinidad. "For a while, it seemed like we couldn't get a goal." 
Guatemala was at home 
against Costa Bica in a game 
played simultaneously, If the 
United States failed to win and 
Guatemala won, the Americans 
would have been eliminated. 
Because Guatemala won 2-1, the United States came uncom­fortably close to elimination. 
"We knew it wasn't going to be easy," Meola said. 
Both games were scoreless at halftime. The crowd of' about 4,000 kept getting louder. 
Five minutes into the second half, Barbados nearly went ahead. 
Llewellyn Hiley took a hard shot and Meola just managed to deflect it. The rebound hit the knee of defender Carlos Llamosa, ricocheted off the crossbar and only then bounced away. 
"Maybe the play of the game is Meola's save," Arena said. 
In August. the United States routed Barbados 7 -0 at Foxboro, Mass. But the Americans had a two-man advantage in the final 49 minutes of that game. This was a far more confident Barbados team. 
"I always said we match up with their players very well. especially at home," Barbados midfielder Augustus Hurdle said. 
Chris Klein appeared to put the Americans iA front in the 58th minute when he put in a rebound of a Moore shot, but referee Noel Bynoe of Trinidad and Tobago called Moore off­sides. That was just about the time the U.S. bench learned Guatemala had taken a 1-0 lead. 
"It could be one of those days," Arena said to himself. 
Scholarships 

Natasha Tri11m 1iaching ofEnglish 
Each year, Te.chm Colkgc, Columbia Univrr•ity, awards over $6 million in scholarships, paid assimmships, in1ernships and fellowships to TC students. 

The Tess Magsaysay and Ken Boxley Scholarship: 
The leaching profession needed a Scholarship on 1he order of the Rhodes, Fulbright and Na1ional 
Meri!. Teacher.; College crea1ed one. Two of the ten winners of1his full scholarship arc pic1ured a1 left. 
Rose Fellows: 
For TC srudcms who have achieved academic meri1 in educa1ion, psychology or health education, an award of up to 18 points ruilion plus a research fellowship. 
Jewish foundation for the Education of Women: 
For full-time female pre-service science or ma1h 1cachecs willing 10 1each for 3 years in NYC public schools. $15,000 scholarship. 
Nicholson family Scholarship: 
Provides suppon for TC studcncs selected by the Dan and President of 1hc College for oumanding academic merit. 
TEACHERS COLLEGE 
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
Deadline: January 15, 200 I For admiHions informarion, call Siudy Educa1ion, Psychology or Health Educa1ion al one of 1he na1ion's leading graduate schools. On-line ca1alog, 212-678-3423 www.tc.columbia.edu/-admissions/ admis.hrml 
Moore. who scored twice in the later, ran down the end line, game in favor of' llazov. win at Foxboro, created the goal eluded Wayne Sobers and passed Mathis had a virtually opcm net when he picked up a pass in the the ball back to Mathis, who was and scored from about six yards corner of the field -a few minutes just about to be taken out or the out. 

September 1 September 15 September 29 
October6 
October27 
November3 
November 10 
Debbie Ballou (Professor of Management, UND) "Overview of Current E-commerce Issues" 
David Overbeeke (Gen. Manager E-business, OE Aircraft Engines) "Business to Business E-commerce" 
Geoff Robertson (Vice President of Engineering, mvp.com) "Starting a B2C Company" 
Michael Cullinane (Chief Financial Officer, divine interVentures) "How to Value an E-business" 
Colleen Sullivan (Dir. of Information Systems, Alltel Communications) "Data Warehousing and Mining for Building Business Intelligence" 
Rick Spurr (Senior Vice President, Entrust Technologies) "Internet Security Threats and Measures t_? Deal with Them" 
Reuben Slone (Vice President of Global E-business, Whirlpool) "Supply Chain Management" 
Cheryl Aetterick (Manager, PricewaterhouseCoopers)

November 17 
"Conducting E-business Assessment" 
Dr. Anatole Gershman (Director, Andersen Consulting)

December 1 
"Emerging Trends and Technologies in E-commerce" 

All lectures held from 10=4oam-12:05pm Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business !'lotre Dame faculty, staffand students arc welcome to attend these presentations 
How WouLo You LIKE To DESIGN THE MOST POPULAR SHIRT ON CAMPUS? 
SUBMIT YOUR DESIGN FOR 


E8 II 

:aoo• 
TO THE STUDENT ACTIVITES OFFICE BY MONDAY NOV. 21TH 
ANY Q1!ESTIONS: SEND EMAIL To cdefilip@nd.edu 


w 
Thursday, November 16, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Florida focuses on BCS matchup, not presidential election 
Associac~d Press 
TALLAHASSEE, J:ila. 

The sharp rhetoric has escalal• · cd and the indecision has become almost unbearable in Florida this week, as the nation waits for a winner. 
Such is the state of politics. Such is the state of football. 
One race, Gore vs. Bush, has no 
Professional Athletes Choose Chiropractic 
Logan's national reputation as a pre­mier chiropractic college is due in large part to faculty members like Or. Ralph Filson. 
In his private practice, Dr. Filson acts as consulting doctor ofchiropractic to the St. Louis Cardinals and the World Champion St. Louis Rams. 
In both capacities, Dr. Filson treats some of the world's best athletes in professional sports. 
If you would like to learn more about an exciting career in chiropractic, please contact Logan Collge for an informational packet. ':L 
.....,,,,_ 
l 

Dr. Ralph Filson with Mark McGwire 
1-800-533-9210 
www.logan.edu loganadm@logan.edu 
1851 Schoettler Road, Chesterfield, MO 63017 
An Equal Opportunity Institution of Higher Education 
Power Mac G4 Cube: The campus supercomputer. 
With unprecedented sryk, the Power Mac G4 Cube gives you G4 performance ,o you cm play graphics-inttnsive games or crunch numheb withour ovcrwl1el111ing your desktop. The Power Mac G4 Cuhe hundle includes the superh 17" Apple Studio Display. 
450MHz/64MB/20GB HD/DVD ROM/56K/FireWire from $2,292 
Price includes three-yearAppleCare Protection Plan. 

iMac: New fall lineup. 
The new iMacs have the po1Ver and performance to meet your demanding couise re4uirements and get you on the [mernet f:N. Three of the four modeb are AirPon readyt and allow you to create your own Desktop :.lovies with Fire\X'ire and i~lovie 2. 
350MHz/64MB/7GB HD/CD ROM/56K/USB from$965 
Pace includes three-yearAppleCJre Protection Plan. 


iBook: It's iMac to go. 
Make ctfonless lntcrnct connections, take notes in cla:;s, an<l even produce and star in your ovm Desktop Movies, all with tl1c new ,Bonk. Add All"POJt and you're cleared for raktoff with wirebs Imerner am:ss.t 
366MHz/64MB/10GB HO/CD ROM/FireWire/56K from $1,711 
Price includes three-yearAppleGare Protec&oo Plan. 
Solutions Center 
e 
Room 112 Computing Center 
219-631-7477 
http://www.nd.edu/-solution 
Email: Solution@nd,edu 
definite end. The other, No. 4 Florida vs. No. 3 Florida State, will be decided late Saturday nighL 
The winner of one contest will wind up in the ·white House. The other will probably play for the Bowl Championship Series national title. 
for the last century, sports and politics have happily coexisted in America, often creating a blurry line between what people are passionate about and what really is important. 
As the two obsessions collide this week in Tallahassee, there seems to be agreement on one thing: The election may decide the future of the country, but the football game may go further in determining who is happy for the 
PowerBook 
For taking to class, it's in aclass by itself. 
Aportable science lab and movie studio, the PowerBook offers exceptional power and long battery life to accompany you everywhere. Built-in FircWire lets you connect ro external devices like digital cameras, CD recorders, 
scanners, and hard drives. And now every PowerBook comes with iMovie video editing software, so you can direct and act in your own Desktop Movies. 
from $2,340400MHz/64MB/10GB HO/DVD ROM/FireWire/56K 
Price includes three-year AppleCare Protection Plan 
next 365 days. 
"Around the nation, I don't know," Florida State receiver Snoop Minnis said. "But in Florida, I have the feeling more people are going to be concen­trating on our game." 
Is there any harm in that'? 
Florida State student Angie Cheatham doesn't think so. Like so many Americans over the last week, she has been monitoring the election on TV and in the 
newspapers. 
She knows there are constitu• 
tional issues at stake, the psyche 
of a waiting nation in limbo. She 
also knows her moments as a 
college student are precious. 
'Tm a political-science major, so the election is important to me." Cheatham said. "But it's my senior year, so tho game is going to take up most of my attention this weekend." 
The mixing of metaphors between sports and politics long has been a staple of American life:. Tight political campaigns are called horse races; some football coaches are so beloved, "they oughta run for president." 
Politics and sports mix in more tangible ways, as well. 
In Nebraska, voters just elected former Cornhuskers coach Tom Osborne to Congress. Steve Largent, J.C. Watts, Jack Kemp, Gerald Ford -all football play• ers who became politicians. 
In Florida, a state that takes its rich football and political tradi­tions seriously, the ties are just as deeply entrenched. 
Secretary of State Katherine Harris, the politician making some of the most crucial deci• 
sions regarding election recounts. 
is the granddaughter of Ben Hill 
Griffin, a cattle and citrus mag• 
nate. Florida plays football in Bell 
Hill Griffin Stadium, aka "The 
Swamp." 
Former state Attorney General Jimmy Kynes once played line­backer for Florida. Citizens in Gainesville just sent one-time receiver Perry McGriff, part of a long family line of successful Gator football players, to the Legislature. 
Even the Florida-Florida State game is a product of politics. Then-Gov. Leroy Collins brought the schools athletic directors together in th'e mid· 1950s and ordered them to schedule a foot• ball game as soon as possible. The first game was played Nov. 22, 1958. Florida won 21•7. 
Suddenly, however, with a presidential election and a college football season on the line in one small Southern capitol, some Americans may wonder if they have their priorities straight. 
One sociologist believes these conflicting priorities could actual­ly be a sign of the strength of the cow1try. 
'The interest in who wins the football game and how the elec• tion turns out are intricately linked," said Robert Thompson, professor of media and popular culture at Syracuse University. "People in this country are secure in knowing the nation will contin­ue to be administered in an effec• tivc way, no matter how the elec• tion turns out. That's one of the things that makes it possible to be obsessed with things beyond poli­tics." 



NCAA FOOTBALL 

Arizona State's Snyder fired, will coach through season 
sons at Arizona State, but just Battlers of the Arena Football were fired. becoming the new coach and
Associarcd PrcM 

16-17 in the last three years. League, said Smith told him However, Smith said that White would be consid­
TEMPE, Ariz 
Arizona State football coach Bruce Snyder was fired Wednesday with one game remaining in a third consecu­tive disappointing season. 
Snyder. who just four years ago directed the Sun Devils to an 11-0 regular season, will coach through the remainder of this season. 
Athletic director Gene Smith, a former Notre Dame football player who has been at Arizona State only since July, had said he would make a decision on Snyder's future after the season. 
But he changed his mind fol­lowing the 
Sun Devils' 

"Once I make a decision, 
rankings.
29-7 loss at 

I'm the type ofindividual Arizona
Stanford last State was 9-3

Saturday. that likes to act ... 
in 1997,"I came to including athe realiza­
Gene Smith Sun Bowl
tion very recently that Arizona State athletic director appearance, 
He has a 125-105-5 record in 25 years as a head coach, including stints at Utah State and California. 
Snyder had three years remaining on his contract. Smith said that the total buy­out for the coach and his staff would be "under $2 million" and that most, if noL all, of the monP.y would come from boosters. 
In 1996, Snyder won con­sensus national coach of the year honors after guiding Arizona State to an unbeaten regular season. The Sun Devils lost to Ohio State 20-17 in the Hose Bowl and finished fourth in the national 

but the team 
went 5-6 in 
1998, and 6-6 last season. Smith praised Snyder's character. 
"I want to make sure that we all understand as the Sun Devil family that Bruce Snyder has operated this pro­gram with class. dignity and integrity, and for that, we need to be thankful," he said. 
Smith declined to talk about the specifics of why Snyder was fired, but said the win­Joss record was important. 
ln Wednesday's Arizona Republic, former Sun Devils and Dallas Cowboys quarter­back Danny White said he had talked to Smith about the job should Snyder be dismissed. 
White, coach of the Arizona 
So~e1hingt 
/)on'+ 
Change! 
Happy 
2.2.nd 
Char(ie 
Schoenfe(d 
that he would be on a short Wednesday that he had not ered the same as any other list of candidates if Snyder talked with anyone about candidate. 

Thursday, November 16, 2000 9:00am -10:00pm 
20°/ooff All Notre Dame Clothing and ~~ Gift Items* ~-~· 



HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 631-6316 
www.ndcatalog.com 
*Student ID Required 

*Does not include the following: Books, CD's, tapes, school and office supplies, computer supplies, art supplies, Health &Beauty. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
STUDENT SEASON TICKET 
HOLDERS, PICK UP YOUR 


T-SHIRTS DURING LUNCH FRIDAY IN THE DINING HALLS 
:** You must have your coupon and ID with you to receive your shirt*** 


I 
I 
I 
I 
i • 
I 
this is a deci­sion that was best for our program for the future," Smith said during a news con­ference to announce the fir­ing. "Once I make a decision, I'm the type of individual that likes to act." 
Smith told Snyder his deci­sion Wednesday morning, then the coach met with his players to tell them. The Sun Devils don't resume practice until Thursday, and Snyder told athletic department offi­cials he wouldn't be available to comment until then. 
Snyder will coach the Sun Uevils (5-5) in their season finale at Arizona on Nov. 24. A win there would make Arizona State eligible for a bowl game. 
Snyder is 57-44 in nine sea­

--­--------------­--. ---------- - ----------------­--­ 
Thursday, November 16, 2000  The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT  page 21  

student union 
HAPPENINii§ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
MOVIES: $2 
11/16 Thursday 10:30pmScary Movie 101 DeBartolo East is East 155 DeBartolo 
11/17 Friday 8 & 10:30pm Scary Movie 101 DeBartolo East is East 155 DeBartolo 
11/18 Saturday 8 & 10:30pm Scary Movie 101 Debartolo East is East -155 DeBartolo 
ACOUSTIC CAFE: tree 11/16 Thursday LaFortune Huddle 9pm-12am 
SUB LOFT CONCERT: PRINCES OF BABYLON $3 nd/smc students ... $5 non-students 11/18 Saturday Alumni-Senior Club 1 0pm 
ATHLETIC§ ~ 
WOMEN'S BIG EAST VOLLEYBALL 1 11/18 Saturday JACC 3:30pm 
MEN'S BASKETBALL vs. SACRED HEART 11/18 Saturday JACC 8:30pm 
Ml§CELLANEDU§/CAMPU!i-WIDE 
ACADEMIC LUNCHEON: COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE 11/16 Thursday SDH Hospitality , 12-1 :30pm 
BREAD FOR THE WORLD: LETTER WRITING MEETING 11/16 Thursday CSC 4pm 
DILLON BASKETBALL PEP RALLY 11/16 Thursday 
LOVE1 S FIRE 11/16 Thursday Washington Hall 7:30pm 
CONVERSATIONS ON RACE 11/17 Friday IUSB All Day 
WORLD HUNGER COALITION THANKSGIVING BASKETS 11/1 7 Friday Stepan 3-6pm 
OFF-CAMPUS GAME WATCH 11/18 Saturday BW3's · 3:30pm 
ND FACULTY CHAMBER MUSIC 
11/19 Sunday Annenberg Auditorium 2pm 
ND BRASS ENSEMBLE 
11/19 Sunday Basilica 8pm 
DORM DANCES,, etc. 
MORISSEY UNPLUGGED; DANCES: ALUMNI, ZAHM, BP, McGLINN 
11/17 Friday 
IL DANCES: PANGBORN, LEWIS, PW, CAVANAUGH, KEENAN, PE ____11_/_18___Sa_t_ur_d_.ay.________________________~ 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 16, 2000 
MLB 
A's GiaIDbi naliled AL MVP 
Associat.ed Press 
NEW YOHK 

Jason Giambi still credits much of his suc­cess to Mark McGwire, even though they only played two years togeth­er in Oakland. 
Su it came as no sur­prise that one of Giambi's first calls after winning the American League Most Valuable Player Award went to Big Mac. 
"I wanted to thank him first before anybody else because what he meant to me and my career," Giambi said Wednesday. "He was so excited for me. We have such a spe­cial friendship. He is everything from a men­tor to a big brother and everything else." 
Giambi got 14 of the 28 first-place votes and finished with 31 7 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America and edge out Chicago's Frank Thomas. Giambi also got 11 seconds, two thirds and one fifth. 
Tl10mas, a two-time winner, rebounded from his worst season as a pro to linish second with 285 points and 10 first­place votes. Seattle's 
• 
Alex llodriguez got the other four first-place votBs and finished third with 218 points. 
"This is a boy's dream come true," Giambi said. "This has been nothing but a fairy tale for me this year with my broth­er {Jeremy) here and the A's winning thu divi­sion." 
Giambi came up to Oakland early in the 1995 season, when McGwire was entrenched at first base and served as a tutor for the young player. 
Two years later, McGwire was traded to St. Louis as the A's began a rebuilding process that turned into this season's division title. Oakland also took the Yankees to a decid­ing fifth game in the division series before being eliminated. 
"A couple of years ago we almost lost 100 games," Giambi said. "We've really turned the corner. (GM) Billy Heane did an unbelievable job putting together this machine we have going now. llopefully we can take it to the next step." 
Giambi is the biggest mason why. lie spear­headed the team's run to thfi AL West title by hitting . 396 with 13 homers and 32 HBls in the final month. 
"I knew when I came to the ballpark that it wasn't a question if I
... 
would get a hit -it was how many and if I'd have a home run," Giambi said. "I had never been so focused in my life. It is something you dream about to have that kind of September to g<it your team to the playoffs." 
Not that he was shah-
by the rest of the season. either. He finished with a . 3 3 3 average, 43 homers, 137 RBIs and 137 walks. lie led the league with a .476 on­base percentage and was third with a .64 7 slugging percentage. 
"Th is kid, if you look at him the last couple of years. he's gotten better each year," Oakland manager Art Howe said during the playoffs. "For me. he's the MVP of this league, hands down." 
The next step for the A's will be how to keep Giambi in Oakland beyond next year. He is eligible for free agency following the 2001 sea­son and it could be diffi­cult for the low-budget A's to keep Giambi. 
"We're trying do this as soon as we can." Giambi said. ''I'd like to end my career here in 
Oakland." Beane said his top pri­ority is to keep Giambi. 
"There's no getting around the question that Jason will be paid a lot. and he deserves to be paid a lot," Beane said. 
Toronto's Carlos Delgado was fourth (206), followed by Boston's Pedro Martinez (103), Cleveland's Manny Hamirez and Seattle's Edgar Martinez (97 each). Anaheim's Darin Erstad (94), Boston's No mar Garciaparra (66} and the Yankees' Derek Jeter 
(44). 
Thomas, the winner in 1993-94, rebounded from career lows of 15 homers and 77 RBIs to lead the White Sox to the best record in the league. He hit .328 with career highs of 43 homers and 143 HBls. 
SI\~
l ever yo n e' s i n vi t e drM 
Yankess in hunt for Mussina 
Associated Pr~ss 
NEW YORK 
After meeting with pitcher Mike Mussina's agent Wednesday. Yankees general manag­er Brian Cashman came away convinced the right-hander would be willing to play in New York. 
"I think their interest is sincere," Cashman said. "What that will translate into is hard to say. But I think they' re sincerely interested. We're not beingjerked around." 
Mussina, a free agent who has played his entire 10-ycar career in Baltimore, has indicated in the past that he would rather not play in New York. But agent Arn Tellem said recently that is no longer the case. 
"I think I got a pretty clear picture from them," Cashman said. "A pretty good and complete pic­ture of their needs. It's up to Mussina. lle's the only one who has all of the information in front of him. But again, I really believe he has a sincere interest in us." 
Mussina, one of the top two free agent pitchers this offseason, is also being targeted by the Mets. Cleveland and Boston. Tellem met with Mets general manager Steve Phillips on Tuesday. ESPN's Peter Gammons reports Tellem is expected to meet with the Red Sox on Thursday. 
Mussina went 11-15 this season. but his 3.79 ERA was third in the American League. Ile has a 147-81 career record. 
It will probably take at least $14 million a year to sign Mussina, and the 31-year-old pitcher is looking for at least a six­year deal. 
''It's an open discus­sion," Cashman said. "We have had a few already. But this is the first in person. We're both still in fact-finding missions. They're expressing an interest in us. So we're going to play that through." 
The Yankees. who arc also interested in out­fielder Manny Bamirnz, would like to put Mussina in a rotation that already includes Roger Clemens, Orlando Hernandez and Andy Pettittn. 
Cuban defector Adrian Hernandez is under con­sideration for the fifth spot and the Yankens could decide to bring back David Cone. 
Equip smart: 
A laser printer for the price of an inkjet? 
Cool. Just $199. 
Now you can have your very own 
laser printer. At a breakthrough price. 
Fast. Sharp. Clean. Compact. With 
a toner cartridge that should last you all 
year. And at a per page cost that's 70% 
less than inkjet. Plus a Toner Save button 
that extends the life another 30%. 
Papers that stand out in a teacher's 
grading stack. Professional resumes. 
Articles fit to submit for publication. All for 
the price of a half-dozen inkjet cartridges. 
Better think twice. Everyone in the 
dorm's gonna want to use it. 
Grab one at your campus bookstore. Order on line. Or by phone at 800-459-3272. Go to www.samsungusa.com/Xtreme for more information. 

-
-
t ,
-,..._-~
~­
The Samsung ML-45IJO Laser Printer. N16-pages-on-1 • print feature and Last Page Reprint button. Microsoft 2000 and Linux compatible. 
score.l'.UR 
_nm-oanmlnonirnr:'i.
;~~r--°'.,.~ ltd rr: · 
·:;re:,··•ud 
yo11 tl>dW llr1d thill SMJllll S~!Dip 15 indt llt--plntl mon"°', ..W. boill•lo TV .;_ .,. -" spo,u,i Simply v• to 
WWW--SIIIIIIUnpU.c:oM/Xl,nN, fe mfof the iWeep­
OUffl. Or moll in,_....,.,.,. ,,..Jf.tilo •pa,tlclplfno Clmpu&~ 1-""'° 
...... 

ifl 2MO S ¦ mltmg 'El ¦ ttroniu America SyncM1in1trl1 11r1d1m1rk of S ¦ mlung E18ch'orties Am ¦ riu 

• 
Thursday, Novt:mber l G, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 

NFL 
Broncos' Griese out 4 weeks 
Associated Press 
DENVER 

Quarterback Brian Griese, who led the Denver Broncos to victorv Monday night despite playing with a separated throwing shoulder. will be sidelined 3-to-4 weeks and possihly longer. 
'Tm looking to come back in a month or so and see if I can throw the ball and help this team out because that's my respon­sibility," Griese said Wednesday. 
He was injured in the first quarter when he was tackled and Oakland line­backer Elijah Alexander landed on him. 
Informed by doctors that he could do no further damage to his shoulder, Griese took a painkilling injection and returned to the game, engineering a 27-24 victory. 
His injury was officially listed as a third-degree separation of the AC joint, the most severe type. 
"Optimistically, we 're looking at 3-to~4 weeks," Broncos coach Mike Shanahan said. 
Griese,· the AFC's top­rated passer, already was playing with torn cartilage in the same shoulder, which will require offsea­son surgery. The injuries are believed to be unrelat­ed. 
With Griese out of 
action indefinitely. the Broncos, who got back into playoff contention with the win over Oakland. will turn to vet­eran Gus Frcrotte. The Broncos (6-4} entertain winless San Diego (0-10) on Sunday. 
Frerotte started once this season in Kansas City after Griese tore the carti­lage in his shoulder. Frerotte was 18-of-31 for 208 yards and an inter­ception in a 23-22 loss. 
Last season. Frerotte stepped in for Detroit dur­ing a six-week stretch af'ter starter Charlie Batch fractured his riiht thumb. Frerotte was 2-4, com­pleting 134 of 226 passes for 1,588 yards with six touchdowns and six inter­ceptions. 
Dr. Richard Hawkins, an orthopedic surgeon and a Broncos· team physician, said Griese sustained an "accordion-type injury" of the shoulder where the ligaments are damaged and the outer end of his collarbone "sticks up in the air a little bit." 
Given the extent of the injury, Hawkins termed Griese's play "amazing." 
"That's sort of encour­aging because if we took away his pain and he per­formed so well with this injury, then when his pain settles down maybe he can perform at that level again," Hawkins said. "So we're optimistic that maybe in three or four weeks, he '11 be able to throw again effectively. 
"If he cannot and we judge over four to eight weeks that he's not recov­ering, then we might talk about doing something surgically. But most of these injuries are treated non-surgically. Most ath­letes do very well with this injury even without an operation." 
The 25-year-old Griese also had torn cartilage in his shoulder in 1999. but he missed only two games. 
"I don't feel snakebit," he said. ''I've had some problems but it hasn't been something where I've missed a bunch of games. I've been able to play through it. Unfortunately this is a lit­tle bit worse than what I had before and I won't be able to play for a while. I've got to maintain a pos­itive attitude about it." 
Griese insisted he hasn't given up on this season. 
"I want to play this year," he said. "I want to let the swelling go down, and see if I can throw effectively and contribute to this team. If we get into the playoffs, and hopefully I can get back for a couple games, I want to help us out. If I can't, then I'II have to weigh the other options." 
Bengals turn to Mitchell to end passing problems 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
While Akili Smith staved mum on his demotion, Scott Mitchell did a lot of talking Wednesday during his first practice as the Cincinnati Bengals' starting quarterback. 
Mitchell went from teammate to teammate, asking whether they were comfortable with the plays chosen for a game Sunday at New England. If there was any doubt, he wanted the play thrown out. 
"The big thing I want to make sure I do this week is just have a good understanding of my respon­sibilities and make sure everybody else does," Mitchell said. "If we're doing too much stuff, I think it's my job to cut some of that out and eliminate it." 
At this point, the Bengals (2-8) are willing to try just about any­thing to get their offense going. 
The worst passing attack in the NFL is so out of whack that coach Dick LeBeau decided to sit Smith for at least one game, giving Mitchell a chance to see what he can do. 
Smith, the third overall draft pick last year, walked past reporters without comment shortly after the move was announced on Monday. He didn't want to discuss the demotion on Wednesday, either. 
"Naw, man, I ain't talking," he said. 
Smith, the lowest-ranked passer in the NFL, took it hard when LeBeau benched him during the second half of a game in Pittsburgh a month ago. After a 23-6 loss in Dallas last Sunday, Smith again saw no reason for a quarterback change. 
LeBeau decided that Smith was pressing and needed to watch from the sideline for a week. Smith, the least-accomplished member of the quarterback class of '99, is keep­ing his thoughts to himself. 
"He's a high-round draft pick and there's a great expectation there," Mitchell said. 'Tm sure at times he's felt a lot more pressure that maybe ho's putting on himself' and feeling like, 'I've got to do it. These other young quarterbacks are having success and why am I not?' 
"I'm sure there are a lot of things weighing on his mind. Sometimes when that happens, you tend to lose your focus and I think at times he's maybe let things other than football kind of bother him." 
Inexperience is bothering the offense, which features rookie receivers Peter Warrick and Ron Dugans and second-year receiver Craig Yeast. They've frequently run wrong routes or sloppy routes. 
Mitchell, in his 11th NFL season, talked to his receivers about their responsibilities Wednesday. 
"He knows how to handle himself under pressure," Warrick said. "Not taking anything away from Akili. We're just trying to change it .. up and get something established. Mitch is a veteran. He knows what's going on at al1 times." 


Thurs., November 16 
6:00 p.m. Junior Class Dinner -Center for the Homeless, Meet -Main Circle 
7:00 p.m. Acoustic O'Neill, O'Neill Hall 
7:30 
p.m. Play: "Loves Fire", Washington Hall* 

7:30 
p.m. Sexual Assault Awareness Week: Group Prayer at the Grotto 


8:30 p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec lacrosse, Court 1, RSRC 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Scary Movie", DeBartolo 101* and "East is Easr', DeBartolo 155* 
Friday. November 17 
5:30 p.m. Skit: "When A Kiss is Not Just A Kiss" -library Auditorium 
7:00 
p.m. Morrissey Unplugged, Morrissey Hall 

7:00 
p.m. Taste of Nations, Center for Social Concerns 


7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 
7:00 p.m. Women's Soccer vs. Harvard* (NCAA 3rd round), Alumni Field 
7:30 
p.m. Play: "Loves Fire", Washington Hall* 

7:30 
p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "East is East", Snite Museum* 


8:00 
p.m.-11:00 p.m. "Salsa Night" ­Dance and also Lessons from 8-8:30p.m., Stepan Center 

8:00 
p.m. Movie, "Scary Movie", DeBartolo 101 * and "East is East", DeBartolo 155* 


8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "East is East", Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Scary Movie", DeBartolo 101* and "East is East", DeBartolo 155* 
Sat., November IS 
7:30 
p.m. Play: "Loves Fire", Washington Hall* 

7:30 
p.m. "Mikey°Likes It", Assorted Skits by ND Humor Artists, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 


7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "East is East", Snite Museum* 
8:00 p.m. Movie, "Scary Movie", DeBartolo 101* and "East is East", DeBartolo 155* 
8:30 
p.m. Men's Basketball Game vs. Sacred Heart* -Joyce Arena 

8:30 
p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 


9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "East is Easr·, Snite Museum* 
10:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m. Band: "Princes of Babylon• -Alumni Senior Club* 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Scary Movie", DeBartolo 101* and "East is East", DeBartolo 155* 
Denotes admission charge for ND/SlvlC students Programs are gJbject to change without notice. For up to date information, check out the ND calendar. Today@ ND at www.nd.edu or call Student.Activities at 6'31-7W8. To add an event to further calendars, please :::end the details .al:;out the .activity to 
sao@hd.edu. 

page 24 
Recruits 
continued from page 28 
11aseball Recruits". 

"This class ranks up there National Honor Society mem­with the finest in Notre Dame ber carrying a 4.34 GPA, has 
baseball history," said 
Mainieri. 
"We 'v e 
filled all our needs with play­ers who have out­st anding ability and who will contribute a great deal. 

The cen­terpiece of the class of 2005 is short­stop/right­h a n cJ e d pitcher Matt Macri. Macri is 
one of America's highest ratud players, named the No. 18 prospect in the country by Baseball America and No. 21 by Team One Baseball. He is also the starting quarterback for Dowling lligh School in Clive. Iowa. where he has led his team to the state champi­onship game this weekend against lfottendorf 1-ligh. 
Macri also brings interna­tional experience to the Irish,

' 
i I having hit .353 on the USA 
I 
Baseball team that won the bronze medal at the 2000! t Junior Pan-Am games. As a I pitcher, Macri has hit 94
I 
t miles per hour with his fast­
t 
l ,. ball while also showing promise with a solid breaking ball. Jeff Spelman, a scout for Team One Baseball. said that the Irish were fortunate to sign a player of Macri's abili­ties. "I think he's the type of player who's going to be a first-round draft pick either out of high school or after a career at Notre Dame," said Spelman. "He's kind of a cen­terpiece to any program, and he· might be the b.est all­around player that they've ever signed." Macri originally looked at Southern schools, but the three-time Academic All­Conl'ere nce pick was impressed both by the acade­mics and the atmosphere at Notre Dame. "When I came on my visit, I realized that Notre Dame was everything I wanted," said Macri. "One big thing for me was how the coaches and got along and I liked them a lot .i!:.!ld could tell the players 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

-Used Books bought and sold 
•25 
Ca1egoncs of Bool.s -25,000 llardback and Paperback books m stock -Ou1-of-Pn111 search service 

•
Appnusals large and small Open noon to six 


Tuesdau thro·ugh Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 



Sportswear

la · 
from aun-allT 
Campus s ors 
c_.,,.mv.111-,­

Call 259-1000 for more details 
"/ think [Macri is] the type ofplayer who ·s going to be a first-round draft pick out ofhigh school or after a career at Notre Dame. He's kind of a centerpiece to any program and he might be the best all-around player that they've ever signed." 
Jeff Spelman Baseball One recruiting analyist 
love playing for them." 
The No. 2 player in the Irish class was Grant Johnson, a 6-foot-6, 205­pound pitcher from Burr Ridge, Ill. Johnson, a 
in the 90s years. "Grant is 
prospect who has the physical ability to be a dominant power pitcher." said Mainieri. "He has a great arm with a fastball that already can touch the low 90s. He has the perfect pitchers body at 6-6 and with additional strength should throw even harder." 
''I'm looking forward to working with Coach [BrianJ O'Connor on improving my off-speed pitches," said Johnson, "I've heard great things about him as a coach." 
The Irish inked a third top pitching prospect in New Jersey native Martin Vergara. Vergara has a very live fast­ball with impressive move­ment on his off-speed pitches. He is also the starting quar­terback on his high school football team, a trait that did not go unnoticed by Mainieri. 
"It's always been our phi­losophy to recruit pitchers that are good athletes because athletic pitchers get better in our program," said Mainieri. "I've seen Martin play quarterback and he's a very special athlete. He'll be one of the top pitchers in the Big East." 
The only position player other than Macri to sign with the Irish was shortstop Matt Edwards of Mechanicsville, Va. Mainicri plans on letting Macri and Edwards compete 
a fastball in the low 90 's and, because of his height, a very high ceil­ing in terms of his develop­ment as a play­er. 
"A guy like Grant Johnson would be the No. 1 guy for a lot of other schools," said Spelman. "He's throwing 88 to 90 now, but you look at him 
and You can easily say he's a guy that's· going to throw in a couple of 
an outstanding 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 16, 2000 
· for the starting shortstop 
vacated by current senior 
Alec Porzel in the fall, with 
the player not named starter 
at shortstop likely starting at 
another position. 
The two remaining pitchers 
signed by the Irish were 
right-ha·ncter Chris Niese! of 
Plantation, Fla. and southpaw 
Scott Bickford of Owings, Md. 
Signing Niesel. a very mature 
pitcher with a variety of 
pitches, was a surprise, ·as he 
was the only player to sign 
who hails from a warm­
weather climate. 
'Tm not that concerned 
about the weather change 
and have talked to some of 
the other Notre Dame players 
who arc from Florida," said 
Niese!. "The indoor facilities at Notre Dame are very impressive." 
Bickford, the only left­handed thrower of' the group, is a project as he stand 6­foot-4 while weighing in at only 160. pounds. However, he has a very smooth delivery and has shown tho ability to pitch, both attractive quali­ties in a left-handed pitcher. 
"I think the important thing for Scott is that he needs tu get stronger and gain weight," said Mainieri. "lle's a 6-foot-4 left-handed pitcher with a very nice fluid deliv­ery, and he knows how to pitch. What you hope with him is that he gets stronger and his velocity goes up !'our or five miles per hour." 
As with every baseball 
It's Fun... It's Cool ... 
&Now it's Special Just for You!! 
Come Join Us At 
COJ,I,RGR NIG 
BEACON BOWL Mondays & Thursdays 
9:00 pm to 12:00 Midnight 

/.us Notre Dame ttege 
. -~ 13eth.el Co 
Show your College I.D.and get unlimited bowling for just $5.95 per person. Shoes not included (College discounts available anytime with a College I.D.).:"""'· 
. 
t!NIPPIWA BOWl 

• 
225 W. Chippewa Avenue South Bend, IN 46614 (219) 291-5093 
CIDPPEWA BOWL Thursdays 
9:00 pm to 12:00 Midnight 
o'>s 
/i,, St kl 0 
-_y 4-c~ . ,viary's \\-o\1 
BEAt!ON BOWl ., 
4210 Lincoln Way West South Bend, IN 46628 (219) 234-4167 
recruiting class, Mainieri runs the risk of losing a few of these players to the .Junn d raft. esp e c ia 11 y M a c r i. Johnson and Vergara. Tho Irish head coach remains confident that each of' these players will suit up for tho Irish to comprise a team that looks to have one of the best shots at going to the College World Series in recent memo­ry. 
"All of them have told me that their desire is to Cirst go to Notre Dame and then go play professional baseball," said Mainieri. "In reality, when June rolls around with the major league draft, will they still feel that way? I cer­tainly hope so. but there's a possibility they may not." 




Thursday, November 16, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
NBA 
Thomas makes triumphant return to Detroit in 92-88 victory 


.c 
:§ c., 
LOW

N 
.s:::: 
u o· 
(D
'i:: 
::::,::::, 
0
::::?' Cl> § < 
:;; in' 
::::,
CD ::::,
student "Tl 
E "' 'E C. C 
;;; (D 'Cl "' 
E 
(!) < 
!e. 
0 '"O 
a; 
iil 
0::,
0 
C 
"' Airfares OJ 
E (!) 0 ID 
.c 
::::,
-"" "' 
8 
0::, a.i Eu rail passes ""' 6 
C: 
G) 3: 
C) 0 
.c 
"' 0"' 
C: 
a. 
0 r 
Q) More Than ~ 
u <ii 
0 
::::,
100 Departure Cities CT 
!il: 
!l) 
§: 
ID
Study Abroad C. 
Ill 
0 
::::, D>
-C:•. ~ 
t
<' 
<­
0
student Universe~ ~ 
;;:T 
::::, ::::,
IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT "' 
(!) 
"'CT 
C 
c3 
0 
~
studentuniverse.com C!> 
800.272.9676 
AsoociateJ Press 
AUBURN HILLS. Mich. 
Indiana Pacers coach lsiah Thomas 

insisted that Wednesday's visit to the 
Palace of Auburn Hills was no big 
deal. 
His players· knew better. 
Heggie Miller scored 30 points 

while Travis Best added 22 as the 
Pacers beat the Detroit Pistons 92-88 ·Wednesday night. 
"Isiah coming back to Detroit was a 

lot like the last few years when 
Coach [Larry] Bird would go back to 
Boston," Miller said. "They would act 

like it was just another game, but 
you could see it in their eyes. Isiah 
has a lot of tradition in this town, 
and we wanted to win this for him." 
Thomas, who spent his Hall of 
Fame playing career with the 
Pistons. was given a standing ovation 

by the sparse crowd during pregame 
introductions. 
"I wouldn't trade the feeling I got 

when I walked back on that court for 
anything in the world," Thomas said. 
"It was great to realize that the fans 
here still appreciate what we did." 
Jalen Rose's return to the Pacers 

lineup was delayed for at least one 
more game. The Detroit native, who 
has missed the entire season with a 
fractured wrist, had hoped to return 
against the Pistons but did not dress 
for the game. 
"It's a boost that we have been able 

to get to 5-2 without Jalen," Best 
said. "We don't have one of our main 
players, and even the two games we 
lost, we had a great chance to win." 
Austin Croshere had 15 points and 
11 rebounds for Indiana. 
Jerry Stackhouse led Detroit with 
29 points, and Cedric Ceballos scored 
19. 
"We had opportunities to win this 
game, but that's not any consola­
tion," Stackhouse said. "This was a 
game we should have won. We can't 

just let teams keep coming back on 
us like that." 
The Pistons missed nine of their 

Be our guest for the premiere teaching lecture ofthe year. A time to share your questions and aspirations with teachers from all walks oflife. 
"Teaching Values: The Dignity of Our Profession " 
Dr. Paul A. Rathbum ,University of Notre Dame, Professor Emeritus, English 
Those who strive for "excellence in teaching" endeavor to graduate students who are morally, ethically, and spiritually whole. This involves teaching values built upon respect for the gifts of our students; respect for the material we are teaching; and respect for the teaching process itself. Next to my family, teaching at Notre Dame has been the greatest adventure and deepest experience ofmy life. Nearing the end ofmy career, it is an honor and humbling experience to speak to professionals gathered to share their experience and inspire one another in the pursuit of"Excellence in Teaching." 
Friday, November 17, 2000 
7:00 p.m. 

McKenna HalVCenter for Continuing Education, Auditorium Preceding the keynote speech William M. McLean '75, St. Laurence High School, Burbank, Illinois will receive the Alumni Association's "Excellence in Teaching" Award Reception immediately following the lecture 
Sponsored by: Notre Dame Alumni Association Alumni Continuing Education 

CONTl:'IUINO EDUCATION 
first 10 shots in the fourth. but two baskets from Stackhouse put them ahead, 86-85. 
Miller answered with a jumper and, after two Detroit misses and a turnover, hit a fast-break layup to make it 89-86 with 25.7 seconds left. 
Stackhouse threw the ball away on the ensuing possession, and Miller made a free throw to put the Pacers up by four. 
"I thought we played hard enough to win. and we held a good team to under 40 percent shooting," said Pistons coach George Irvine. "But in the second half. in crucial situations, we had too many turnovers." 
After two free throws from Chucky Atkins, Miller hit another pair from the line to wrap up the victory. 
76ers 107, Cavaliers 98 
George Lynch figured it was his time to lead the Philadelphia 76ers, even if it meant not playing his nor­mal game. 
Lynch scored a season-high 23 points and Allen Iverson added 22 as the 76ers matched the best start in franchise history -8-0 -with a victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
"My shot opportunities were there. I knew I had to come out of my shooting slump sometime," said Lynch, who averaged 7 .3 points entering the game. "I always wanted to score, but my role is to be a defen­sive player. If you watched the way we played last year, other than Allen, someone else has to step up." 
Philadelphia also opened the 1979­80 season with eight straight wins and went to the NBA Finals. 
Iverson, playing with a sprained left ankle, overcame a slow start and sparked an 18-0 run in the third that gave the Sixers control of' the game. 
Clarence Weatherspoon scored 24 points and Robert Traylor added a career-high 17 for Cleveland, which began the night with the second-best record in the East. 
Theo Ratliff had 15 points and six blocks for the Sixers. 
"I was disappointed in my first half, and I wanted to come in and ignite the team," Ratliff said. "George kept ·us in the game with his scoring." 
The Sixers erased a five­point deficit and took their first lead since the opening minute on a fast-break layup by Iverson that made it 59-57 with 9:42 left in the third. 
Iverson had seven points during the run, including a layup and free throw for a three-point play as the Sixers 
built a 70-57 lead. 
The easy, hassle free way to fly . 
Fly to Orlando/Sanford • Portsmouth, New Hampshire • St. Louis/Belleville, IL • Philadelphia/Allentown, PA
:~,~­
",j ~flEE Parking • Easy access to all highways • Convenient • Secure 
For Pan Am: 1·800·FLY·PANAM www.flypanam.com For More Information 
www.garychicagoairport.com 
enormous 
FLEECE 
Sele 

Sminute from 0UTP0ST 
Campus 
Comp9tltlw In •-rNIIN 
Call 259-1000 for more details 


page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 16, 2000 
Rogers 
continued from page 28 
wouldn't be doing it," Davie said. "I know how difficult head coaching jobs arc to get, an<l I've been in the same position myself'. When you have the opportunity to take the next step in anybody's earner. I'm not going to stand in anybody's way." 
Other colleges have con­tacted Hogers in the past 
about a head "They said I was a coaching posi­candidate. I'm hoping
tion. but no 
that I'm not one of
Division 1-A schools. many. Another coach men­
Kevin Rogers
tioned by the 
Irish offensive coonlinator
Newark Star­Ledger as a possible replacement !'or Shea is Gary Darnell, former Irish dcl"en­sive coordinator and current 
Western  Michigan  head  
coach.  
"They said I was  a  candi­ 

date," Rogers said. 'Tm hop­ing that f'm not one of many. 
.. 
I don't think I am, but I really don't know who else is involved or anything." 
Following Saturday evening's meeting. Rogers plan8 to jet back to South Hend to help the Irish get ready for their final regular­season game, 
'Tm flying back as soon as I possibly can to get ready for Southern Cal," Rogers said. "I know what I've got here, and we've got an opportunity to finish the season right and do 
the Irish season. 
'Tm in the bunker all day." Rogers said. "We're totally focused on the game plan and those kinds of things. I'm not making phone calls asking for recommendations. I'm not in there politicking for the job." 
something special. That's what my focus 
is." 
Rogers said the possible job change has not been taking his mind from the rest of 

Princes ol 
Borton 
continued from page 28 
"She's not the type of post player who's going to come away from the basket," said McGraw. "She can, but I think right now she's 
more  comfortable on  the  
block."  
While  no  player  - let  

NEW 

FOR SPRING 2001 3-CREDIT BEGINNING JAPANESE LANGUAGE COURSE 
A less inense version of the 5-credit first year Japanese 111 
Call# 4748 
EALJ 101 01 BEGINNING JAPANESE I Prof. Setsuko Shiga MWF 10:30-11:30 
No Prerequistes 

Introduction to the fundamentals of modern Japanese with equal emphasis on speaking, listening, reading and writing in hiragana and katakana. This is the first of a three-semes­ter sequence covering the same material as EALJ 111-112 but at a less intense pace. Students who have completed the EAL.I 101-102-103 seqence will be able to take second year Japanese together with those who have taken EALJ 111-112. 
Only Offered in spring. · Textbook: Nakama, lessons 1-4. No Prerequisites. Not open to students who completed EALJ 111 or higher. 
East Asian Languages & Literature 205 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
631-8873 

APhiladelphonic Band that has opened for G-Love & the Special Sauce, Macy Gray, and Wyclefl Jean. POB combines Roots, Reggae, 
R&B, Jazz, Blues, and Funk all in the context of contem­porary hip-hop beats. 
Babylon 
Alumni-Senior Club 
83 nd/smc students 
S5 non-students 
November 18 
10:00 pm .All Ages 
alone a freshman -can step in and fill the shoes of an All-American like Riley who has been named Big East Defensive Player of the Year, Borton should pro­vide enough solid defense and rebounding to prevent the Irish from being domi­nated in the middle during the coming years. 
On a team with talented perimeter shooters and 
other talented post players, Notre Dame likely will remain competitive in the post-Hiley era. 
"Teresa is a post player with great mobility who can score around the bas­ket." said McGraw. "She has a lot of offensive skills and is a good defender as well so I think she is going to fit in with our scheme of things." 

"We'll be bringing It on tunky, freaky, and full or LOVE." -Uncle Craig, percussion i I 
i 
i 
Sponsored by CARE and e 

Thursday, November 16, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 

BILLAMEND
Fox TROT 
VIVE LA WEH MAHST SEH A ROYt\HLIST! WILL YOU TWO li!E.VOLVTloN! I.OYAHL To ZEH To ZEH STOP PLAYIN& VtVE LA NON! KtN&! GU\LLoTtNE NON! WITH "f'oUR REV0LuT10N! NON! WlTH HIM! PLEEEEZ! AMI\! FRENCH
'-­
FRIES?!\:: 


TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY • 
~ 
There'!» -the. stvde.n-t pork,09 \ot 
0oMbS ~WO.':i•·• 



G ) 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 38 Sharp feller 1 Are short 39 Arthur of "Hoop 5 Asteroid viewed Dreams" by the NEAR 40 "Rock 'n' Roll Is spacecraft, 2000 King" group 9 Targets 
41 Cupid14 Pick target 
42 Karel Capek 15 "Uh-huh" 
classic 16 Circus site 
43 Pepper with 17 Greek dish/ Jewish bread? French dessert 
47 Snap's out of it?

combo? 
49 Reserves19 Frilly neckpiece 50 Magazine20 Okra bit category21 New Haven, 52 Mrs. with a

aka_City 
famous cow

22 Kind of court 56 One of the 
24 Breastbones Huxtable girls 26 of Sandwich 59 Bill Nye subj. 
27 Analyze 60 It might dip into 
30 One who leaves your poi 
people cold? 34 Cheese served 
61 Red flag on Passover? 62 Cheesy pasta? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
J A M 


EMU ~-----=­
ORO 


65 T-shirt 

specification 66 "Our Boarding House" oath 
67 Rima's "Green Mansions" beloved 
68 Over 69 Old newspaper section 70"So I 
DOWN 
1 Office items 2 Under way 3 Unrefined 4 Floors at M.S.G. 5 Cilium 6 Use a juicer on 7 Pin 8 Physical 
condition 9 One of the 
Balearic Islands 10 Fit to be farmed 11 Singer McEntire 12 Speed measure 13 Stuff 18 Feeling, Italian-
style 23 Pedestrian aid 25 Flatten 28 Territory 29 Whoops 31 1974 title role 
for Lucille Ball 32 Dendrite's counterpart 33 Peter of the Philadelphia 
Pops 34 Artist Chagall 35 Fuego 
extinguisher Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

Annuiil subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Burgess Meredith, Diana Krall, Llsa Bonet, Martha Plimpton, George Kaufman, Marg Helgenberger 
Happy Birthday: This will be a romantic year for you. You can re­vive your longtime relationship oi; if you are single, find your true love. You should focus on your personal life and your emotional well-being. Don't take on too much; instead, con­centrate on what's important to you regarding family, friends and your personal desires. Your numbers: 4, 17, 22. 35, 44. 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Domestic issues will be confusin_g. You will not be able to get a straight answer out of the party involved, but you can make a difference to the outcome of your situation by being understanding. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Pleasure trips will be enjoyable and informative. Discussions with those you meet will trigger some new ideas to improve your work. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't trust others to complete your work. Don't spend too much on donaaons or lend cash that you are not likely to get back. Protect your own interests. 
000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Upsetting and erratic behavior on the home front are evident. Try to sit back and listen to your mate's con­cerns. You can make things better only if you understand the problems. 
00 
LEO Quly 23-Aug. 22): Be careful how you handle other people. You'll be given false information and have your words twisted around if you aren't precise. Don't let your lover curtail your freedom. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You 
EUGENIA LAST 
may have to walk away from a situa­tion that you are emotionally tied to. Deception by friends or lovers is a possibility where finances and gam­bling are concerned. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Present your ideas to superiors. Don't be upset if they aren't willing to move ..... on them just yet. If you aren't pushy, they'll change their minds. Look into starting your own small business. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will gain the most if you take short business trips. You have to take action because waiting for others is frustrating and a waste of time. Opportunities will develop through co-workers. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your financial situation may not be as stable as you think. Look over your personal papers. Joint financial ventures will not pan out. Someone may try to push you or put demands 
onyou.000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
One-sided romantic attractions are likely. Don't divulge your personal secrets to those who are in a position to use such information against you at a later date. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Someone you work with may not be telling you all the facts. Do your own research.. You can resolve uncertain­ties regarding your personal life if you are willing to lay your cards on .. the table. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Minor surgery or dental work will be successful today. You can make changes that will raise your self­esteem and improve your appear­ance. Social events will be hectic but exciting. 00000 

Puzzle l>y Cathy Mlllhauser 
36 Period 37 Girl's name spelled out in a 
1970-hit 41 Church part 43 Like some 
flycatchers 44 Counter 
inventor Geiger 45 Nacho dip flavor 46 Spiral: Prefix 48 Develop 51 "60 Minutes" 
man 53 Court story 54 Actress Adoree 55 Word in a 
triangle 56 Forum farewell 57 Rock 'n' roll 
pioneer Freed 
58 Bully's prey, often 
59 "P.D.Q., doc!" 
63 Cause of star wars? 
64 Double Hall-of­Famer Hubbard 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Birthday Baby: You have charm, grace and the ability to get what you want. You won't back down if you believe in a cause and are always willing to take a calculated risk. 


VOLLEYBALL •·@ Semifinals Sat. EAST CHAMPIONSHIP 
CONFERENCE 
#21 ND vs. UConn 1:00 pm Finals Sun. 2:00 pm ® WOMEN'S SOCCER llCIIII Championship Fri. #1 ND vs. Harvard 7:00 pm Third Round * First 100 students admitted FREE! 
#15 MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Sat. 8:30 pm 
vs. 
Sacred Heart 
Sweet Homecoming 
In his first return to Detroit 

I W 
since his days as a Piston. Pacers' head coach Isiah 

I 
I Thomas led Indiana to a ! 92-88 victory. 
PORTS 
page 25 

O
THE page 28 BSERVER Thursday, November 16, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish add Borton to talented recruiting class 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assisronr Spom Ediror 
After already landing the best recruiting class in the history of Notre Dame women's basketball to go along with a recently signed live-year contract, Irish head coach Muffet McGraw could only ask for one more thing -a center to succeed All-American Ruth Hiley next season. 
On Wednesday, McGraw may havf1 seen her wish come true as Teresa Borton, a 6­foot-3 center from Yakima, Wash. agreed to attend Notre Dame. Borton joins Jackie Batteast, Katie Plecky and Kelsey Wicks in a talented group of' incoming frontcourt players. Guards Allison Bustamante and Jill Krause also will be members of the class of 2005. 
"Tt~resa rounds out a great class and givns us one ol' thti top three classes in the country." said McGraw. "This is the best class we have ever signed and it shows that we are moving in the right direction." 
.. 
Horton was the 2000 Seattle Times class 3A player of the year. finishing fourth in the state of Washington in rebounding. She led her team to the 3A quarterfinals before the Hams fell to Blanchet 45-39. Blanchet collapsed on Horton every time she touched the ball. allowing her to take only nine shots. 
Blue Star Basketball ranks Borton 23rd overall among high school seniors. third among playPrs 6-3 or taller. Her height and ability to play the post will be needed immediately by an Irish team losing start­ing center Hiley, starting power forward K1illny Siemon and talented backup Meaghan Leahy to graduation. 
Of players on the current roster, only sophomore Amanda Barksdale is a natural post player. McGraw sees Borton and Barksdale battling for the center position next sr.ason. The head coach says that Barton's play falls somewhere in between that of Hiley and Barksdale. 
"She's somewhere between Mandy and Huth," said McGraw. "She's not quite as big as Huth, not as dominating a presence, but she's a little bit bigger than Mandy." 
McGraw also sees Borton as more of an inside player, which should fit in perfectly on a team with sharp-shooters Jeneka Joyce, Alicia Ratay and Bustamante. 
see BORTON/page 26 

BASEBALL 
Mainieri inks 7 prospects 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assistant Spores Ediror 
In college recruiting, base­
ball ranks right with basket­
ball in terms of difficulty. Not 
only are there a limited num­
ber of .starting positions, but there is ge,wrally a Ii mite d number or scholar­s h i p s . Players 
also f're­
q u en t I y 
I e ave co l l egc a ft e r tlrn i r 
sophomore and junior years 
to sign with professional 
teams. 
To make tho coach's job 
even harder in rncruiting, 
players must be signed in tlw 
fall, while the coach does not 
find out which underclass­
men are leaving until tlw fol­
lowing Jurrn. Notre !Jame ­
a Northern school competing 
for top prospects with th1• 
likes of Florida, LSU and 
Miami, must also convince 
players to pass up the advan­
tage of' practicing outdoors 
year-round. 
Despite such inherent dis­
advantages. Irish baseball 
coach Paul Mainieri 
announced one or the finest 
recruiting classes in Notre 
Dame history on Tuesday, 
signing seven players, all of' 
whom are listed on Team 
One Baseball's list or 
"Tracking the Nation's Top 

see RECRUITS/page 24 

FOOTBALL 
Rutgers contacts Rogers about vacant head coaching job 
• 
position at Rutgers. contact Rogers by calling "My concentration and focus the Irish and Scarlet Knights
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Rutgers head coach Terry Notre legitimately is on meet in a 3:30 p.m. contest.
Associate Spores Editor 
Sliea announced last week Dame our football team "I didn't want to do it on
"To be very frank, that's
that he will resign following athletic and what we have Friday before the game,"
Irish ut'l'ensive coordinator 
the season. Shea carries an director a distraction right now. " to do. That [the Hogers said. "I wanted to 
Kevin llogers won't let him­
1l-4 l record in five years for Kevin Rutgers job! is just have my focus on the game0 
self think about the future 
the Scarlet Knights. White. speculation at this Irish head coach Bob Davie 
when he's preparing for Kevin Rogers
A New Jersey native, Rogers " T o point and time." gave Rogers his l'ull approval
Saturday's game against the 
found himself amid specula­be very Irish offensive coordinator Rogers returned to look into the head coaching
ScarIet Knights. If he did. 
tion as a successor to Shea frank, the phone call position.
he'd be looking into a cloudy 
early on. It wasn't until that's a Monday afternoon, "If I wasn't OK with it, WP. 
forecast that might include 
Monday morning, however, distrac-scheduling a meet­
his taking the head coaching 
that Hutgers attempted to tion right now," Rogers said. ing for Saturday night after sec ROGERS/page 26 
at Valparaiso at Rutgers Friday, 7:35 p.m. Saturday, 3:30 p.m.
·SPORTS 

Women's College CuP, third round 
ATA Big East Tournament
~ vs. Harvard Semifinals 
vs. Sacred Heart Friday, 7 p.m. 
Saturday, I p.m./2:30 p.m. Saturday, 8:30 p.m. 
GLANCE 







