Movie reviews 
And the winner is ... 
The new sci-ft thriller "Pitch Black" receiz,es 
Santana was king ofthe Grammy Awards as 

Thursday

a poor rating.for its lack of 
his album Supernatural won eight 

authentic sci-fl material. 
Grammys Wednesday. 

FEBRUARY 24, 
Scene . page 12 
News . page 8 
2000 




The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII NO. 90 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Osborn/Donahey appeal legitimacy of runoff election 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assisrant News Editor 
The committee to elect John Osborn and Mark Donahev will appPal the Judicial Cnu~cil's final dec'.ision which derlared Brian ffDono14hm• and Brook Norton stud(>nt body prnsidPnt and vie(' prr.sidc'nl f'or 2000­2001, arrnrding to a statement rrleairnd WednPsday night by the rommittPe to elect Osborn/Donahev. 
The rouncil decided in favor of ()'Donoghue/Norton last Thursdav after runoff chal­len gp rs ·il u nt l!an ovc r and John Minik"s tir.ket was dis­qualified because of r.ampaign violations. The vote tally for the runoff has not be made public.. 
"There wasn't a real runoff." said Donahey. whose tirket fin­ished third in the runoff. "You can"t hav!' a runoff between onP-tir:ket, and because O'Donoghuc did not rcr.eivc 50­plus-one {percent of the vote] in the first election and the sec­ond election was null-and-void, 
technicallv the r:onst(­tution still requires a runoff eler.­
tiou." 
T h e appeal to Student 

S e n a t e Osborn states that ffDonoghue did not receive 50 perr.ent of the vote in the primary election and therefore the constitution specifically outlines a runoff is required. "The student body needs the opportunity to vote between two valid tickets," Donahev said. "The constitution of the Student Union specifies there 

should be a runoff between the two top tickets, and we happen to be one of those tickets [bPcause the Hanover ticket was dis­
qualified]." 
" 0 u r basic rea­soning is to be truP to the consti­tution and personally we were 

s h o c k e d Donahey that the Judicial Board did not bring up this issue," Donahey said. "We see why the decision was made 
hastily, however we feel the student opinion is bP.ing over looked." 
Osborn agreed with Donahey. 
"This is a matter of proper representation" Osborn said. "Last Thursday the ballots 
were cast. the votes were counted, but the results were Ignored. If student government is to represent the student body, they should allow the students to select their repre­sentatives rather than appoint­ed them through administra­tive action." 
O'Donoghur1 and Norton had no comment on the appeal itself. however Norton said their roles will not change until the appeal is heard. 
"Odie and I are going to con­tinue to act in our capacity as president-and vice president­elect until otherwise notified of that status," Norton said. 
Osborn and Donahey made the der.ision to appeal when the Hunt Hanover and John Micek ticket announced Monday they would not appeal the Judicial Council's decision. 
Dan Peate, campaign manag­er for Ilanover/Micek, made a 
statement on their behalf. 

"We think all of this is a good example of why campaign reform is necessary," Peate said. "A committee has been formed by Micah Murphy to address the issue, and it is about time. We chose not to appeal, we have no desire to appral, but we'lrespect their right and definitely think they should be allowed to file this appeal." 
Current student body vice president Michael Palumbo said the appeal will be heard by Student Senate as soon as possible. 
"We're trying to have a meet­ing [today] at 6 [p.m.] because we understand this is an urgent matter which needs to be handled as soon as possi­ble," he said. "Most senators realize the issue needs to be addressed and are saying 'let's do it tomorrow."' 
SMC art history major curates eating disorder exhibit 

By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
Curating an art exhibit is usually an undertaking reserved for those with years of experience in the art world, such as museum direr.tors. But Sarah Martin, a senior art history major at Saint Mary's, will far.e the challenge soon. 
For her senior comprehensive, Martin planned art exhibition featuring 11 artists whose work deals with self­image and eating dis­orders. The show women," said Martin. "When I first came to college. I didn't know anyone with eating disorders." 

Unfortunately. eating disorders became something she had to face. Two of her earliest friends at Saint Mary's had eating disorders, and her best friend from high school developed an eating disorder in college. 
"It kind of hit me hard when I got here," Martin said. "It left a big impres­sion on me. It's been a big impact 9n a 
lot of us."  
Some of the  artists whose works will  
be  on  display  are  
women  recovering  

marks the first time at from eating disorders.
"Ideally, I do hope this 
Saint Mary's a student Other artists were 
has curated an art reaches some people. I 
concerned with the exhibit. hope it helps someone issues in society. The For most art history works show causes,
talk to someone else or
majors, a senior com­pressures and strug­prehensive involves a reach out." gles of eating disor­long research paper. ders. However, senior "Ideally, I do hope
Sarah Martin 
Martin went another this reaches some
art history major
direction. For more 
than a year now. she has planned this exhi­bition. 
To find artists and artwork, Martin first put a call in art magazines and on the Web looking for artists who deal with issufls of nngative body images, self-hatred and eating disorders. After receiving more than 150 proposals, she selected 50 artists. Martin then invited faculty. friends and family to help her look through the slides and give her feedback. 
"It was a good thing to do it that way," she said. "From their suggestions I was able to narrow it down." And nar­row it down she did. Martin chose 11 artists from ar.ross the nation; each uses a different medium to compliment her exhibit theme, "Chasing the ldr.al: Women and Eating Disorders." 
"J wanted to do something with 

people. I hope it helps 
someone talk to some­
one else or reach out," said Martin. 
Throughout the project. Martin has remained in contact with many of the artists, but not all of them realize this is her senior comprehensive. The ones that do were surprised that a college senior was handling a project this big. 
"One woman asked if it was for my masters," said Martin. 
"This involved an incredible amount of work, planning and organization, proposing the idea. developing a theme and advertising it," said Johnson Bowles. director of Moreau Galleries, where Martin will host her exhibition. 'Tm very excited and very impressed by her levels of abilities, focus and her dis­cipline," Bowles said. 
see EXHIBIT/page 4 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 


'Y'all gotta problem with 
lllf accent? 
While on the phone the other night, I was asked a question I have probably answered a thousand times in my life: "Where are you from?" Similar questions include: "Are you 
from the South'?" and "Where did you learn to lalk like that?" There are many more -and, trust me, I've heard them all. 
I never understand how people hear my accent. I think I sound pretty nor­mal. I guess I do put a twist on certain words. Some friends claim I say the word "why" a little dif­ferentlv from the rest of the English-speaking pop­ulation. Somehow the one­syllable word suddenly gains three more; "Whiiiieeey?" Hey, at least I get my question across. 

Laura Rompf 
assistant news editor 
So everyone at Notre Dame assumes thal bAcause I'm from Kentucky, all Kentuckians must talk like I do. Think again. 
I went to high school 35 minutes outside my hometown -all the way to the big city of Lexington. And believe me, the insults occurred there, too. 
In fact, my nickname freshman year was none other than Forrest Gump. I can't tell you how many times I heard, "Run Forrest, run," or "this seat's taken." You know some­thing's wrong when even fellow Kentuckians are knockin' your accent! 
However, the worst comment I ever heard was last semester in Core class. We were dis­cussing the effect of accents on people's per­ceptions. 
"When someone is on TV or the radio with a British accent, I automatically think that they are intelligent," said a fellow classmate. She then looked at me and said, "No offense, but when someone talks with a Southern accent, I automatically think they are dumb." OK, so she meant it as a joke. That's OK, I'm laughing it up over here. 
Ha Ha Ha. 

I guess people like her made me think I should be ashamed of my Southern drawl. People like her made me try to imitate my best friend's Chicago accent. Unfortunately, 1 don't sound like Chicagoans and those "A's" just aren't there yet. 
Following a summer home in Clark County, my accent is now as strong as ever. Everyone seems to notice it. Twice a week I tutor mid­dle school kids, and, as you know, they can be heartless. 
"You're not from around here are you? ... Are-you some country girl? ... You can't talk!" I try to tell myself what a fifth grader thinks doesn't matter, but even that 11-year-old rec­ognizes I'm different. 
However. different is good, right? I'm start­ing to realize that even though my dialect does make me different, that's OK. I'm embracing my Southern accent. 
Y'all keep the insults comin' -Whiiiiieeeey? Because I'm proud of this accent. I love the great state of Cantuckee. If I do say so myself, it's the best one in the Union. 
The 1,iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
Scene News Mau Nania Josh Bourgeois Berh Goodhue Kelly Hager Graphics Courtney Boyle Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production 
Molly McVoy Mike Connolly 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Mary Margaret Nussbaum Pete Richardson 
Th, Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during cxa.m and vacation periods. The Observer is a member ofth'-= Associated Press. All reproducuon righ<S arc merved. 
Thursday Saturday 
. 
Performance: "All's Well . Performance: Collegiate thal Ends Well," 7:30 p.m., Jazz Festival, 7:30 p.m., Washingon Hall. Tickets Stepan Center. Tickets available at Lafortune available at La Fortune 

. 
Event: Accoustic Cafe, 9 . Event: Little Sibs p.m., The Huddle, Weekend at Saint Mary's Lafortune 


Saturday 

. 
Performance: "All's Well that Ends Well," 7:30 p.m., Washington Hall. Tickets available at Lafortune 

. 
Event: Little Sibs Weekend at Saint Mary's 


Sunday 
. 
Performance: "All's Well That Ends Well," 2:30 p.m., Washington Hall. Tickets are available at LaFortune 

. 
Event: Little Sibs Weekend at Saint Mary's 


Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

San Diego State to offer day-after pill 
SAN DIEGO 
Maybe the condom broke, or per­ha.ps in the heat of the moment logi­cal thinking was left on the floor next to the underwear. 
Whatever the situation may be, there's a an option for San Diego State University couples waiting to see if it is going to be a table for three instead of two. 
Plan B, a new emergency contra­ceptive pill approved by the Federal Drug Administration last July, is now available by prescription at Student Health Services on campus. The new product is highly effective and results in much less nausea and vomiting than other Emergency Contraceptive Pills, according to FDA research. 
"I didn't experience any nausea or vomiting when I used the pills," English senior Marcella Garcia said. 

"I took the pills like you would aspirin and never thought twice about it or had any reac­tion to the pills. It was like I was taking a daily vitamin " 
Marcella Garcia 
college Senior 

"l took the pills like you would aspirin and never thought twice about it or had any reaction to the pills. It was like l was taking a daily vitamin." 
Plan B is made up of two pills con­taining a hormone women secrete when they are pregnant, and a syn­thetic hormone, which is commonly found in birth-control pills. 
The pills are only available by pre­scription, and no internal examina­tion is required. 
"Plan B has been available at SHS since last November," said Harry DuMond, a pharmacist at SHS. "But we have been [providing) emergency contraceptive pills for years. Now we have an estrogen-free product." 
The Plan B package is small, about the size of a makeup compact, and contains two pills. The first pill should be taken within 72 hours of sexual intercourse, and the second pill is taken 12 hours after the first pill.According to FDA research, the sooner the pills are taken, the more effective they are in preventing an unwanted pregnancy. If taken one day after unprotected sex, the pills prevent pregnancy with 95 percent certainty, compared with 60 percent if taken three days after unprotected sex. 
Cheating becoming more common 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
In the arena of academic dishonesty.colleges and universities nationwide are facing a discrepancy between policy and practice. Half.of all college stu­dents admit to having cheated at least once during their undergraduate careers, according to a recent survey conducted by Ball State University. At Ball State and at other schools, cheating occurs despite outlined academic integrity policies. To address the issue, Pennsylvania State University is designing a new academic integrity policy. "We had a long-standing policy that was very elaborate," said John Cahir, vice provost and dean for undergraduate education at Penn State. "We became dissatisfied with it because we detected widespread sentiment that it was too complex and bureaucratic." The new policy will allow the faculty to make the final determinations regarding consequences of cheating. "By having the primary agents as professors, it becomes a teaching/learning situation," Cahir said. "It becomes a more positive experience for the student, one they can learn from." 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperature., 

Friday, ~w63 480 Saturday ~ ;:'&6 _3;9:~
''''"' ,:~·'··· 


~Sunday ~·52 37 
' . 
rC) ,:5·.··..·· .. ·.3'•·.


~Monday 3'9··
~-"'•~'­


Tuesday . r1t,q, 38 
,. ,,,, \.. .., ,J 
......,,.­


Q,Q,Q9,~Q n ~ d 
Showers T-storms Rain FluffiBs Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Vi11 Assoc1Btad Press GraptiK:sNf!t 

Texas A&M's struggle continues 
AUSTIN, Texas 

Investigators of the 1999 Texas A&M Bonfire col­lapse said they will need more time and money to complete the investigation, which was originally scheduled to conclude on March 31. Although investi­gators didn't specify by how much they will exceed their $1 million budget, the Bonfire Commission plans to ask the university for the funds. Jon Zagrodzky, a consultant with McKinsey & Co., a management and consulting firm providing the commission with pro bono assistance, said because the nature of the inves­tigation and research is so complex, future work is dif­ficult to plan, and findings may extend schedules and budgets. He added that a few uncertainties, such as the number of interviews required, are preventing investigators from knowing how much money is need­ed to finish the job. "Basically. anytime you find that there is a lead. you have to follow up -at this time we can't be precise about how many of those we are going to end up doing," Zagrodzky said. "Every time you add another interview, it not only adds time to the budget but cost as well." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

Atlanta  71  49  Las Vegas  56  43  Portland  52  39  
Brookfield  52  47  Memphis  69  52  Sacramento  58  44  
Boston  53  39  New Orleans  76  59  St. Louis  67  52  
Chicago  56  52  New York  60  49  Tampa  78  53  
Houston  80  64  Philadelphia  59  42  Wash DC  64  45  

Thursday, February 24, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Senate focuses on finances of Student Business Board 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assisrant News Ediror 
Upon a request of somr. sen­ators, student body treasurer James Jessr. and Dome lh1signs manager Kevin Campbell addressed Student Senate lasl night 011 issues surrounding the dPbt of the Studrnt Business Board. 
"This is the first time in spvr.n vears that we arc not going lo add to the current debt." Jesse said. "Not onlv that. but we have mad;, enough morrny to cut the cur­rnnt debt in half." 
During the mrr.ting, Campbt>II Pxplained the struc­tun~ of DomA Designs, a stu­dent Web site design compa­nv. which is one of the busi­nesses adding to this year's surplus. 
"We started with five cmployf'HS and now we have 15," Campbell said. "I'm hir­ing as fast as I can. Hiring employees is the hardest part; there is plenty of work. We're growing very fast." 
Campbell explained that Dome Designs not only creates Web sitAs, but also maintains them while doing many other things that involve the sites. 
Campbell and Jesse also addressed the controversial ND Video. 
"They've been losing money for seven years now," said Campbell. "Without new releases and the selection of places like Blockbuster, there is no way an on campus video store could survive." 
Campbell also explained plans to shut down ND video and possibly replace it with either a tanning bed salon or a New York style newspaper stand. 
The Student Business Board is supposed to provide a loaming opportunity, said Campbell, and ND Video's debt is part of that experi­Pnce. 
Jesse also said that even though I\D Video has lost money this yr,ar. there is still a surplus from other business­es, especially Irish Gardens. Under it's nPw management this year, it has made roughly $10.000 to $15,000. 
"[Irish Gardens] is n busi­ness tbat usually makes or loses $2,000. Breaking even is good, and this year, because of Dominic Julian and his employeP.s, it has made nearly $15,000." 
In other senate news 
Senate suspended a bylav, that s<'hedulcd senate elec­tions on Monday, Feb. 23. The elections will be held on Tuesday, reb. 29. 
Scheduling concerns origi­nated from hall presidents· con r,prns. 
"Only around five halls would be ready to hold their eh~ctions this Monday," said Brian ()'Donoghue, studenl body president-elect and Keough Hall senator. "At Hall President's Council [Tuesday] night, they voted that the elec­tions should be moved to Inext) Tuesday." 
The motion passed unani­mously. but Michael Palumbo, student body vice-president urged senators to prevent this misunderstanding from occur­ring again. 
"(Hall Presidents' Council] should be fully aware of what we are doing because we are aware of what is going on with them," he said. "Both groups would benefit from keeping the lines of communi­cation open. Miscommuni­cation is a two-way street." 

By KATE NAGENGAST 
News Wrirer 

Terrence Rettig recently received news of his new namesake -a 4.5 billion vear-old asteroid. · As associate professor of physics at Notre Dame, Rettig's work on the book, "Completing the Inventory of the Solar System" and his research on comets and plan­etary formation caught the attention of Ted Bowell. Renowned for asteroid dis­covery and Rettig's co-author of the "Inventory" book, Bowell recommended to the International Astronomical Union that one of his discov­eries, Asteroid 8474, first spotted in 1985, be named Asteroid Rettig. 
"This is just a nice honor for people who have been working in the planetary field," Rettig said. "It's a way of recognizing people who have contributed to the sci­ence. It's just a nice thing to have happen ... a fun thing." 
Although Rettig specializes in understanding the chem­istry of comets and does not work specifically with aster­oids, he does know a bit about his new "baby." 
"It is approximately five miles in diameter and it can been seen in the early evening, but it's not some­thing that you can go outside and point to," he said. "It takes an eight-to 10-inch telescope [to see the aster­oid). I can tell you where it is, but it's not something you can just go look at. 
"lt has an orbit of about three years, and it will be out there forever or at least as long as the solar system is ... unless something disturbs it," Rettig added." My friends are sure that my asteroid will be the one that gets distorted in 
its orbit and eventually hits the earth." 
Rettig is described as an extraordinarily popular teacher who has been hon­ored for his ability to make astronomy accessible not only to physics majors but to non­science undergraduates as well. Currently on leave in Washington. D.C., he is help­ing the National Science Foundation with curriculum development and educational initiatives in physics. "We are trying to promote physics education throughout the country," he said. Rettig intends to return to the University to teach astronomy next fall. 
Rettig, and coincidentally, Father Theodore 1-Iesburgh, president emeritus. are the only two people in the state to be honored by name in the solar system. Both of their "heavenly bodies" are cur­rently orbiting the sun in an asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter. "Asteroids and craters on the moon are the only things that can be named after people," said Hettig. "There are not many people who receive this honor." 


Palacz ticket claims victory in SMC Class of 200 I election 
. Saint Mary's class, Diversity Board elections will have runoffs on Friday 
By NICOLE HADDAD 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's Class of 2001 's election for class officers is complete, and the Class of 2002 and 2003 will have a runoff on Friday to elect their class officers for the 2000-01 school vear. 
Auwrnn Palacz and her run-
Exhibit 
continued from page 1 
Bowles. who has worked with Murtin for the last four years, believes it took a lot of vision for !\1artin to compile the exhibition. 
Throughout the past months, Martin was not only responsible for all the corre­spondMce with the artists but also the planning and secur­ing of the space the work was to go in. 
She also 
shipping and insurance. Shr will give a lecture at the opening reception. 
"I can't think of another place [a student] would have this opportunity." said Bowles. "This has been a 

ning mate comprised the only Class of 2001 ticket and suc­cessfully held 84 percent of the vote. 
"We four have been in gov­ern m1rnt since our freshman year," Palacz said. "This is what we've wanted. We've been working on our platform since last semester and we feel that we are very experi­enced and qualified." 
The class of 2002 showed a good turn-out of' student vote with 59 percent ol' the class participating. The Erin Callahan tkket leads with 49 percent of student votes; Katy Robinson is second with 27 
focused career goal .sinrn she was an incoming freshman." 
Martin has had a Jut of preparation: working in the galleries, interning in Chicago and working in the Snitc Museum at Notre Dame. 
Already, she is focusing on her next goal: to receive a master's degree in art history. Following graduation, Martin intf'nds to work in a museum gallery as a dirr.clor or curn­tor. 
"I don't want to do research for the rest-of my li[p," Martin 
said. ··1 like 
being closer 

wrote a cat­"/ like being closer to the to the arL­work than
alog, her artwork than just writing 
just writingown cura­

a paper about it.,, a paper
tor's state­about it. I
ment. and 
like to inter­

dealt with Sarah Martin 
act with the
paperwork, 

Saint Mal}''s senior 
artist." 
The exhibit 

will open on Friday, Feb. 25, at 5:30 p.m. It will be on display untII Marrb 24. Martin has also created an exhibition Web site at www.saintmarys.edu/ -mart5251/ChasingTheldeal 
percent. With 59 percent of the class "We had excellent class turn voting, the Kristen Matha tick­out in voting," Hobinson said. et currently leads the Str,ph 
"We're going to keep cam­paigning and let everyone know about the runoff b e c a u s e everyone's vote counts." 
Callahan was unavail­able for com­ment. 
The Class of 2003 also 

"We've been working on our platform since last semester and we feel that we are very experienced and qualified." 
Autumn Palacz Saint Mal}''s class of 2001 president 
showed an excellent turn-out. 
SMC 
Class of 2003 
59% voter turnout 

Class of 2001 
48% voter turnout 
Pace tickel with 37 pe. r­ce. nt of votes. 
"We're ecstatic," Matha said. "We didn't expect it. ()ur running mates were tremendous and did u wonderful job. Now all we can do is 
to keep on campaigning " 
Pace was unavailable for comment. 
In the Diversity Board r,lec­ti on, the Akmaral Omurova and Katie Povnter tickets will participate fn the runoff on Friday. 
Thr, Omarova ticket had 39 percent of the vote, while the Poynter ticket had 29 percent. The Nikki Gonzalez ticket received 14 percent of the vote, and 18 percent of the voting population abstained. Overall, 45 percent of the Saint Mary's student body voted in the Diversity Board election. Candidates were unavailable for r,omment. 

Elections 
Matha (37%)] . 

(Runoff Fnday) 
Class of 2002 
59% voter turnout Robinson (49%) (Runoff Friday)[ Callahan (27%)l., Zayed (22% Abstained (4%) 

Diversity Board 
45% of Student Body 

(Runoff Friday)[ Omarova (39%) 



' 
'

orld 
•I 


Thursday, February 24, 2000 COMPILED FH0M THE ORSERVEH WIRE SEHVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Turkish -court adjourns Ocalan trial 
/\NK/\HA. Turkey 
/\ Turkish r.ourt on Wrdnosday op!mrd and quickly adjourned a second trial against Kurd.ish rPbe.1 leader Abdullah Ocalan. who alrcadv is on death row for trrason and sepa­ratism'. Judge lhsan Akrin adjourned the trial in the case against Ocalan. his estranged wife, Kcsirc. and 99 other members of his organiza­tion until April 24. 1\ll of the accused face the r!Path penalty for separatism. Akcin said tlrn court must learn the whereabouts of 82 of the other defr•ndants bcforP the trial can continue. Ocalan was srntrnced to drrn.th in Junr.. His lawyers f'ea.r that the new charges could increase pressure in Turkp,y to hang tho rebel leader. Ornlan·s first trial was basr,d on charges rrlatPu to the armed insurgency of his rebPl Kurdistan Workers Partv. or PKK. which pcak(1d in the cnrly 1990s. The current charges relate to events prior to the 1980 mili­tary r011p in Turkry 
New Iranian leaders may bring liberal foreign policy 
TEHRAN. Iran 
Iran's foreign policy will become more liber­al following last week·s defeat of hard-liners in parliamentary elections, Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi said Wednesday. "The positive actions of other countries will receive positive rear.tion from the Islamic Hepublic of Iran." he was quoted as saying by state television. But Kharrazi said Iran's rela­tions with the United States will still depend on Washington's taking "practical steps" -a position his government has stated before. In Washington earlier Wednesday, White House spohsman Joe Lockhart said it "is a matter of who takes what step." 
Engineer quits job to make solo balloon voyage 
CHICAGO 
An engineer who quit his job in hopes of making the first solo voyage around the world in a hot air balloon was floating over the Atlantir Ocean on Wednesdav, more than 
1. 100 miles and nearly two days into his jour­ney. Kevin Uliassi. 36. lifted off in his 160-foot balloon from a stone quarry near Hockford. Ill. early Tuesday. lie hopes to complete the journey in 14 to 20 days. As of Wednesday aftrrnoon. he was about 270 miles east of Cape Canaveral. Fla.. cruising at 19,000 feet at about 3:i mph. It is the second attempt for Uliassi. who lives in Scottsdale, Ariz .. but lifts off from the Chirago area to be rlose to his family and ballooni1ig friends. 
t,ihiidliiiti1M•II

Dow AMEx: 
9.H.99 

JONES -o 10 
Nasdaq:

-79.11 
-1550.33 
+168.21 

• 
NYSE: 
588.63 
-J.!9 
S&P 500: Composite 1360.69 
Voh1me:

10225.73 I,054,2011,000
+8 52 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COMFAN'f TICKER \. CHANGE i; CHANGE PRICE 
,_ 51 CISCO SYSTEMS OIi.CL +ll.85 +14.682 ).38. 62 A.MEM!C'~ ONLT't~E MSPT •17. 50 +e.6eso 58.'.H DELL C-m-!Ptn'BR C9C<l +l.94 .. 1. s,n •'1.39 
l'IICROSO.PT C'OllF A% 1'0, 17 1-0 ,4.375 !)4.25 ORACLE CORP CBLX 4-ti. l2 +3. H1!5 €1. ~6 ~'UAJ;,C'OMN me D•LL +12. 50 +1,,317 10. ea LOCH KAJ!RIS INC IN'l'C -29, 50 -0.5900 1.41 MCI WORLOCOM TN PAR.S -1. 45 -O.b8SO H.U I.NTBL CORP +l.U +2.1100 109. 06 VHT.IC'AL COMPUT \l'CSY +.35.U +l. li6l 
·­


wanted to shoot them, put yourselves in the shoes pleaded innocent to sec­
Associated Press 
Justice Joseph Teresi said. of each defendant and con­ond-degree murder. They "A person who acts in self­si der how the situation face a maximum prisonALBANY, N.Y. 
defense is not guilty of any appeared to him," the sentence of 25 years to 
The jury began deliber­crime," he said. judge said. "You should life if convicted. ating Wednesday in the The judge spent more consider what Amadou Lesser charges being case of four white police than three hours going Diallo did before or during considered include sec­officers charged with over the legal instructions the encounter." ond-degree manslaughterkilling an unarmed black for each of 24 criminal Earlier, Teresi replaced and criminally negligent man, after the judge said counts before deliberations a female juror for talking homicide, which could 
the jurors could acquit if 
began. about the case outside of result in a sentence of they believed the officers 
He gave the jurors the court. The jury is now probation.
acted in self-defense. 
option of considering composed of four black The defendants were The officers could be charges other than mur­women. one white woman members of a roving unit cleared if jurors believe der, and told them the law and seven white men. of New York City plain­
their claim that they fired allows police officers to Sean Carroll, 37, Edward clothes officers that has 
41 bullets at Amadon 
stop and question someone McMellon. 27. Kenneth been accused of stoppingDiallo because they if wrongdoing is suspected. Boss, 28, and Hichard and frisking young black 
thought he had a gun and "You should figuratively Murphy, 27, each have men without cause. 
1 Riot leaves one dead, nine shot 
I 
maximum security prison. which ber bullets. A guard suffored a frar.­
A.,sociated Press has 3,400 inmates, l.200 of whom tured cheekbone. but no inmates are in permanent lockdown condi­wc1rA seriously hurt. In 1997, six tions. inmates were killed in clashes 
CHESCENT CITY. Calif. Inmates stabbed each other while between cellmates at the prison. 
(;uards shot nine inmates. killing guards used tear gas and pepper In an apparently unrelated event. one, in an attempt to quell a race spray to try to control them before two former guards have been riot Wednesday at a prison that they began firing, Grundy said. One charged with violating the civil houses some of California's most of the eight wounded inmates was rights of Pelican Bay inmates. A dangerous criminals, a prison in critical condition, he said, but he redAral grand jury indictment made spokesman said. would not give details of the other public Wednesday accuses E. 
The half-hour melee at Pelican inmates' injuries. Michael Powers and Jose Ramon Bay State Prison involved about 200 The prison, which opened in Garcia of conspiring to arrange inmates using handmade weapons, 1989. is nestled on 270 acres of for­assaults on prisonPrs, one of them Lt. 13en Grundy suid. He did not es l land 20 miles south of the fatal. know what sparked the violence. Oregon state line. Many inmates Garcia is already serving a state 
"It was black and Hispanic are sent there when they are prison sentence on similar charges. inmates fighting," Grundy said . involved in violence at other pris­Another former Pelican Bay guard, "We've had racial incidents in the ons. David E. Lewis. was convictPd of past." Guards were able to put down civil rights charges Feb. 14 for 
The fighting started in the yard of another riot at the prison last shooting a prisoner after a fight in the highest security wing of the August by firing tear gas and rub-1996, 
Prof. returns to 
U.S. after 39-year exile 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA 
A black man who refused inductiou .into the 
Armv in the 1960s because the all-white draft 
boar·d wouldn't address him as "Mr." returned to 
the Gnited Stat.es for the first. t.ime in 39 years 
Wednesday after rereiving a presidential par­
don. 

\\,ith tears streaming down his fac,~. Preston 
King greeted 20 members of his family -sonw 
of whom he had never met and others he h.1d 
not seen in decades -at Atlanta's Hartsfield 
International Airport. 

King, 63, fled his hometown of Albany. Ga .. in 
! 9h1 aftr.r being sentencr.d t.o 18 months in 
prison. Over the years, hr made a life for himsf'lf 
as a professor in England. when• his daughter is 
a member of ParliamAnt.. 

On Monday, President Clinton granted King a 
pardon so he could return to Albany !'or the 
funeral Thursday of his oldest brother, CIAnnon 
King Jr. 

··This is a wonderful homeeoming... King said 
at the airport Wednesday. "This is my turf. 
These are my folks. r feel a great sense of lrrrn 
for this terrain." 

King's da11ght0r Oona, a nrnmher of Britain's 
House of Commons. flew with hPr father from 
London and said the homocnming was bitter­
sweet. 

"He doesn't get those 39 years bar.k," she said. 
"He thought he would die without ever seeing 
his home again." 

King thanked Clinton for having the r.ourage to 
pardon what he called "a simple issue of com­
mon decency and mutual respert.'' 
In 1958. King. who had been granted time by 
his draft board to pursue a master's degree at 
the London Srhool of Economirs and Political 
Science, was told to report for induction. 
The draft board addressed him as "Mr. 
Preston King" before learning he was black and 
"Preston" after that. He refused to report for an 
Army physical until the board addressed him as 
"Mr.," as they did white draftees. He was even­
tually convicted of draft evasion. 
King, now a professor of political scienre at 
Lancaster University, said he felt no bitterness 
about the time he spent away from the United 
States. 

'Tm a veritable Rip Van Winkle -I go out one 
day. and 39 years later, l come back," he said. 
"But we Georgians are relatively tough people. 
You gRt on with it·· 

King praised federal retired U.S. Distrirt Judge 
\'\'illiarn A. Bootle. who presided over his trial in 
1961 and petitioned Clinton to pardon him. 
The judge, nO'w 97. said King had suffered 
enough, having missed the funerals of his par­
ents and three other brothers. I-le said that the 
sentence was appropriate but thal King had 
established himsPlf as a good citizen. 


s 

•·!t'S•.~isure thing.ourtec1mjs 
g61rig 
to giye a 110% effort.Giving l ld<% Js integrar to the. Notre Pame .t:raditi.on. Giving a llOo/o c:ffortJn 
member servi~c js also part and ·parcelofthe Notre.Daine Fe~er~l·· Credih Union tradition.. To both of 
these thqugpts we ·would ·simply · Hk~ tQ aslcl..,'. ... 
Goteaml 
~NOTRE DAME 
.,.FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not For Profit 
219-239-66 l l 

www.ndfcu.org e-mail: ndfcu@ndtcu.org 
INDEPENDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY 
e Join the Tradit 
tions are now being Q. ·,manager positions forr, -1001 academic school 
y pick up applicatio~i lee of Student Activit 315 LaFortune 
February 
Thursday, February 24, 2000 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 


Wednesday February 23, 2000 7:30pm: Preview Night-Lafortune Ballroom The Festival runs Friday &Saturday the 25th &26th 
7:30 pm at Stepan Center The first 150 ND Students at Friday's show will receive a FREE all­
festival pass courtesy of the Student Activities Office Advance tickets available at the Lafortune Box Office 
Juniores! Seniors! Grad Students! 
Be apart of Summer 
···\)(_
~:t·.••.•·.E.•.·•.···•·······•··•·'·:
...·.:...

:ixperi en ce 
a pre-college 
program 
•
seniors 

and Male Resident Assistants 
Office of Pre-College Programs 206 Brownson Hall or call 1-9381 for more information about position requirements and compensation 
www.nd.edu/~precoll 
Avid Bush supporters question his tactics 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Shaken by defeat, Republican 
leaders allied with George W. 
Bush strongly criticized his cam­
paign tactics Wednesday and 
warned that rival John McCain 
is a serious threat to the hobbled 
GOP front-runner. 
Governors, fund-raisers and ranking GOP officials second­guessed Bush and his strategists in the aftHrmath of McCain's sweep of Michigan and Arizona in Tuesday primaries. The com­plaints ranged from his decision to visit a conservative South Carolina universitv -whil'.h one governor called :.stupid" -to the $1 million TV ad campaign in McCain's home state. 
"I think there's a learning curve happening right now in terms of running a national campaign," said Chris DePino, chairman of the Connecticut Republican Party and a staunch Rush supporter. 
The allies said they still believe Bush will prevail in upcoming primaries. "When it comes down to it, and they actually have to choose a nominee and a presi­dent, voters are going to be look­ing for the guy who had done stuff and not just look at the slo­gans and a lot of rah rah," said 
Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee. 
"That's when Governor Bush 
will prevail." 
But their willingness to cri­
tique the campaign underscores 
a growing concern about the 
candidate they anointed a front­
runner long before the first 
votes were cast. 
MrCain, meanwhile. crowed about his "overwhelming and phenomenal victory" during a Washington state swing, as both campnigns drew up strategies for a two-week stretch of con­tests in 16 states and four American territories. 
Hcpublicans were hit with the stark realization Wednesdav that they may be in for a long, expensive race that could pro­duce a weakened nominee. 
"Thern's a lot of people who signed on early with Gov. Bush who are wondering why this is going on so long," said New Hampshire party chairman Steve Duprey. 
The sentiment was echoed throughout GOP circles. as the fallout from the Michigan defeat engulfed Bush's closest allies. 
Several said his visit to Bob Jones University, renown for anti-Catholic sentiments, gave McCain an issue in Michigan and several other primary states with large Catholic populations. 

· · u N'<k;:~;:~(~\s r 1 y o F 
NOT~DAME 
Pre-College Programs 
Legendary Santana wins eight GraDlmys 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGHLES 

Carlos Santana, who first gained fame a generation ago with a searing guitar perfor­mance at Woodstock, capped a triumphant comeback Wednesday with a record-tying eight Grammy Awards. 
The SJ-year-old guitarist's multi-platinum "Supernatural" won alb nm of the year. His first No. 1 single, "Smooth." capped a sweep of the major Grammys by winning song and record of the year. 
Santana tied Michael Jackson·s 1983 record of most Grammys on a single night. 
"Music is the vehicle for the magic of healing," he said upon accepting the album of the year trophy. "and the music of ·supernatural' was a sign and designed to bring unity and harmony." 
To a standing ovation, Santana performed "Smooth" just before winning his finaf award. He kissed singer Hob Thomas at the end. 
Only a lack of a writing credit for "Smooth" prevented a record-breaking performance by Santana. The song of the year trophy went to Thomas and ltaal Shur. 
"f want to thank Santana for taking this song to the moon," Shur said. 
Another nominee whose career began in the 1960s, Cher, won her first Grammy for dance recording. She enjoyed 

her biggest commercial success !,ast.yea:; with the hit sing] e Believe. 
In a mild upsPt, Christina Aguilera beat out her fellow teen queen and former Mousketeer. Britney Spears, for the Grammy as best new artist. Even she was surprised. 
"Oh my God, you guys." she said. "I seriously do not have a speech prepared whatsoever. I'm shaking right now." 
Feuding soul divas TLC pirked up two Grammys -for best rhythm 'n' blues perfor­mance by a group for their frank put-down of men, "No Sr.rubs," and best H&B album for "Fanmail." "No Scrubs" was also nam~d best R&B song. 
Sting sprang an upset in the male pop vocal category with a victory for "Brnnd NPw Day," beating out younger, Latin­influenced singers Marc Anthony and Ricky Martin. Sting also won for pop album. 
"I f'elt the talent I was up against was extraordinary," said Sting, who also won for pop album. "I have 14 Grammys now and a very large mantlcpiece." 
Eminem won two awards, for best rap solo performance and best rap album. 
Two '70s icons took home their first trophies ever: love god Barry White's "Staying Power" won best male R&B performance and Black Sabbath's "Iron Man" was hon­ored as best metal perfor­mance. 

Record of the Year , 8f~! ~i~"s~:'v LP_ Eminem. ~e:11~:~!1~te~PY~~~aJ!r~~°M~~a~chian 
Smooth -Santana / Al'bu· 
, Best Count't . m Album of the Year ' Fly -Dixie hicks\ Smooth _Santan'.a' Be$1:'R&B Album 
.· FanMml•TLC 

Song of the Year··. .t\ Best~...So··Q·1g...·.. .·1..·. ·--·.·.·
h _S i No Scrubs -TLC ":'".
S

moot antai,a Best P'OJfDattctRKording
Art·st \ ·.. '... Believe ~·cner · \
B st N 

e . e_w 1 . '\ ·. BestP; *Alb;;·""."-""' /
Christina Aguilera ...., Bri.od ~ew Day-Sting, / 
~,.,,,, '•~,~::::·:~:,,,•' 

Best Male Pop Vocal Perfonnance ' Brand New Day -Sting ... Best.Pop Vocal Perfonnance by a Group
)' Mana Mana -Santana 
, •.·IJe····st Male Rock Vocal Perfonnance
;American Woman -Lenny Kravitz 
Best Rock Song ·' ' Scar Tissue -Red Hot Chili Peppers .i Best Rap Solo Performance My Name Is -Eminem 
JOSE CUELLAR/The Observer 

§CJHIOOL Of 
ARCHKTJEC'fURE 
COJvfPUTERS TODAY AND TOMORROW 
Saturday, February 26, 8:30-3:30. 8am: Coffee and rolls BOND HALL, ROOM 104 
Featuring practitioners, teachers, and software experts from throughout the United States. 
The purpose of this seminar is to acquaint the architectural community and those involved in computers with the current status and future prospects for computers in architecture and its allied fields. 
For additional information contact the School ofArchitecture at 631-613 7 or via email to arch@nd edu 

Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 TONIGHT and EVERY THURSDAY tor 
OO@@[lif[1@[n)@0®coLLeGe n1GHT 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
$1 Co•IEA (with college I.D., must be 21)W j and lots of other stuff for a buck, too. 
222 S. Michigan • South Bend • (219) 234-5200 Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 More pictures online every week at www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 
DATE M(STAKS #3!}: 
PIC-KI Ne; UP youR DATT ON A MOP5D 
AMAZf Nc; DATE: 
DINNER.AT 

Make no mistake, Chicago Steakhouse serves amazing steaks, pasta, salads and more that seem like they should be pricey (but aren't) and features a fun, casual atmosphere you don't have to get dressed up for (unless you want to). Great for groups, too. 
222 S. Michigan• South Bend• 219.234.5200 
www.aceplaces.com/hearcland 
Thursday, February 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 9 

All student groups must re-register annually to be eligible for official recognition and funding. Official recognition can only be granted by the Student Activities Office. For the 2000-2001 academic year, club registration will be held on April 27 and 28 in the Club Resource Center. Forms for the April registration will be distributed at the February sessions listed below. All undergraduate clubs are required to register during one ofthese two days. An appointment is not required --just show up between the hours listed below! 
TODAY! 
10:00 AM -7:00 PM 
CLUB RESOURCE CENTER (314 LAFORTUNE) ACADEMIC, ATHLETIC & ETHNIC CLUBS 
TOMORROW -FRIDAY, FEB. 25 
10:00 AM -7:00 PM 
CLUB RESOURCE CENTER (314 LAFORTUNE) 
SIRY/Ci/SOC/Al ACTION AND SPIC/Al INT/RIST CLUBS 
DON'TFORGET TO BRING 
CLUB REGISTRATION CHECKLIST ACTIVITIES ENROLLMENT FORM CCC REGISTRATION FORM CLUB SURVEY 
QUESTIONS? Call the Club Coordination Council at 631-4078 Call the Student Activities Office at 631-7309 
* FYI -Graduate Club Registration will be held on March 23 and 24. Check the SAO web site for details. 

VIEWPOINT 
page l0 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, No!l< Dame. IN 46556 024 ~ourh Drn,ng Hall. Norre Uame, IN 465jG 
EDITOR IN Cl:-IIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDU-OR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura l'ctdlc  

NEWS EDrf0R: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SroRTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie Pttoro EorroR: Kevin Dalurn 

AoVEI\TISlNG MANAGF.R: Bryan Lutz 
Ao OF$1GN MA"IAGER: Bret Hudat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Ku.~hro 
CoNTROUF.R: Timothy Lane GRAJ•IIJCS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFJCF MANAf;flt/GENERAL INFO.............631-7471 FAx.............................................................G3 I-G927 
J\uViiRllSINt;.....................................631-6900/8840 
obscrver@darwin.cc.ml.~du EDITOR !N CHIEF.....................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/MST. ME.. ..................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.....................••............•....631-5313 NEWS................................•.........................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................. 631-5303 
observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 obseIYer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE •.•. ······ ................••.. ···························631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu Pl:-I0T0.......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily upda,es of campus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO! 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
cial campus coverage 
and rates of print ads 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published afrer 

co meet rhe editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edironal content. including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofche administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe ,mhors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quwinns rega,ding Observer policief should he dma­
ed to Editor m Chief Michelle Krupa. 
DILBERT 
THE LIFETIME 
GULL! BIL ITY AL.JARD GOES TO 
BOB FLA BEAU. 

E 0
.. 0 " 
I @).. 
O
THE BSERVER Thursday, February 24, 2000 
'Ethics' are leaving the building 
I attended Notre Dame right before the British Invasion (the one with George Harrison and the Beatles, not the one with George the Third and the Redeoats). Some of my most stimulating philoso­
Cappy Gagnon

phy and theology classes were in "ethics." The way 
Cappy's

things are going, I'm 
Corner

afraid ethics will soon be taught in the history depart­
ment. 
In a recent Observer article. College of Business dean Carolyn Woo (whose pro­grams were recently rated first in the country for their ethical content) report­ed that "83 percent of the people [sur­veyed] said that they had encountered an ethical development issue [during] their careers." The article does not provide anv details about the nature of who was surveyed, but it implies it was to an audi­ence from the business world, 
These results could have been charac­terized in a different manner: ''17 per­cent of the people surveyed have NO CLUE about the ethical dimensions of their work!" How can a person have enough responsibility in his employment to be the recipient of a survey and not have faced decisions with an ethical dimension? Those 17 percent have no concept of the meaning and importance of ethics. 
It doesn't take an MBA to conjure up ethical dilemmas which are routine in the business world. How about compa­nies who lay off workers and send their jobs to other countries? How about deceptive product advertising? How about "acceptable losses" in product safety? How about CEO's who make short-term decisions to inflate stock prices (and raise their compensation), while hurting their company in the long run? How about planned obsolescence (seen any fins on a Chrysler product late­ly)? By the way, how's Michael Jordan doing, carrying out his pledge to check on the working conditions of the Nike plants in the Third World? 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A belated Valentine wish, apology 
In response to Michael Fairchild's letter in Wednesday's Viewpoint, the McCandless Hall Council Executive Board would like to clarifv the situation that occurred. 
On Valentine's Day, many bouquets were delivered to McCandless Hall including one particular arrangement with no last name on the card. Other than "Mc," the plare of delivery was not legible. Our desk workers called the florist and it was discovered that the flowers were supposed to be s11nt to McGlinn Hall instead of McCandless. The florist said they would take care of it by delivering a new floral arrangement to McGlinn. 
A miscommunication occurred between the florist and the delivery man. The delivery man arrived at McCandless with the assumption he was to pick up the flowers and redeliver them. However, by this time, the flowers had been given out to a few residents under the belief that they were now unclaimed. The delivery man went on to inaccurately inform Michael 1-<airchild 
I WOULD READ 
BOB'S BIOGRAPHY 
BUT IT'5 COMPRISED ENTIRELY OF FALSE MEMORIES PLANTED BY HIS HER BAL THERAPIST. 

! 
u ij 
C 
di 
f 
~ 
.., c.. ~ 
! 
i: 
:, 
g 
i:: 
Q 
•Q 
:l 

SCOTT ADAMS 
IT LOOKS LIKE A STICK BUT IT'S SOLID GOLD. 
\1 


Politics is another field where ethics has left the building. A while back, a gen­tlemanly fellow was vilified as a sexual harasse·r, while faring Senate confirma­tion hearings for the Cnitcd States Supreme Court. 
This man was accused of some "naughty talk," by a former top subordi­nate. According to her testimony, this man neither proposed sex or asked for a date, nor ever touched her. Neither did she ever tell him that his occasional "naughty talk" was bothersome. And, no other employee could confirm these com­plaints. Despite this lack of evidence. a large group of feminists and left-leaning politicians heaped scorn upon this decent man fno person came forward to contra­dict that his life had been other than exemplary except for this hidden-for-a­dPcade charge of misconduct}. 
A nationally regarded expert on sexual harassment, an attornev, stated that she completely believed the· solo complainer. W11en asked whv the victim in this case had not come fo'i-ward. and, in fact. had gone out of her way to remain in contact with the perpetrator. the expert said it was a classic case of a victim in an unequal power situation. 
Fast forward several more years, and we have a political figure, from the other side of the political spectrum. This guy also engaged in "naughty talk" with a fel­low employee. This guy eventually is forced to state that while he never had sex with the other person, she had sex with him. The woman in this cas11, unlik11 the victim in the former matter. did not have a Yale law degree. !\or was she the highest Equal Employment Opportunity Official in the land, like the victim in the first example. In fact, this victim was barely old enough to break curfew and at the lowest rung on the federal employee depth chart. 
This impressionable woman was smart enough to save some evidence ofher one-sided sexual dalliances, so, unlike the former matter, we have clear-cut proof of the nature of this relationship. When this evidence came to light, some of the same feminists and left-leaning 
that residents at McCandless had dispersed the flowers without investigating the order. 
The McCandless Hall Executive Board would like to apologize for the miscommunication between all parties and especially to Michael and his girlfriend for this unfortunate incident. We would also like to apologize to the women of Saint Mary's and specifically to McCandless Hall for the unsettling situation. We pride ourselves in our reputation as honest women of integrity and will continue to uphold that tradition. 
McCandless Hall Executive Board Rachel Deer, President Karhleen Nickson. Vice President Sarah Chaudoir. Secretary Emily Dreyer, Treasurer Ftbrua,y 22, 2000 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"ft is not true that only cold-hearted. cynical, arrogant, haughty or brawling persons can suceed in politics. Such people 
are naturally attracted by politics. in the end, howeve,: politeness and good manners weigh more. " 
Vaclav Havel Czech president 
politicians were asked to compare the two situations, particularly because of the relative vouth and naivete of the woman in the sricond matter. "No com­parison," they said. Thl~ second woman was involved in a private, consensual, "matter of the heart" (ignoring that Beret Girl told a friend she thought "the big creep doesn't even know my name.") 
Where were the persons who wanted the head of the man in the first case ­including Harvard law professor AJan Dearth-Of-Wit and the Congresswomen who stormed Capitol Hill for a photo-op? They and their ethics took a hike while an important concern facing many women in the workplace was sold out to partisan politics. 
After the current occupant of the People's House was elected, he promised "the most ethical administration in histo­ry." A recent poll by a blue-ribbon panel of historians ranked his administration as lowest in "moral authority" (read­ethics). 
As long as presidents are permitted to say ''it depends upon what your defini­tion sex is:" and presidential wanuabees arc permitted to gore the guts of ethics by saying "there was no controlling legal authority" (or, as Bobby Bowden says "it ain't no felony,") with almost no outrage expressed by the press, the future for ethics is not promising. 
I'm proud of my alma mater for stress­ing ethics in the curriculum. I'm proud that ethics is frequently discussed here. even though some persons snipe at us when we fail to reach our own lofty goals. I hope that I don't happen to buy a car, a refrigerator or a heart valve, from the 17 percent survey respondents who claim they have not faced an ethical deci­sion. 
Cappy Gagnon is a 1966 graduate of the University ofNotre Dame. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Thursday, February 24, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
2000 Bengal Bouts needs 'El Papoose' 
Biggest loss will occur outside the ring 
Those of you who attend the 70th annual Bengal Bouts this Friday ·will see the biggest loss in recent tournament history. That loss will not happen in thr, ring. The loss is the absence of Edward "El Papoose" Hernandez ­last year's 145-pound champion. 
Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano :-tarted the Bengal Bouts to raise money for the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh and to provide stu­dents with the opportunity to box. The hoxing club evolved into an organization where stu­dent athletes formed a fraternal bond through pushing their physical limits and, in turn. help­ing those in need. 
The annual Bengal Bouts tournament has never been about v'.inning or losing, It is about the pugilist leaving his comfort zone and enter­ing the ring. 
Any Bengal boxer will tell you, the fight is internal. It's about overcoming personal fears, expanding physical and mental capabilities and sharing this endeavor with 100 team­mates with whom he has trai.ned and compet­ed throughout the year. This, combined with an amazing charity effort, has made the Bengal Bouts one of the greatest sporting tra­ditions on Notre Dame's campus. 
The 1999 Bengal Bouts were a coming-out party for freshman prodigy Edward "El Papoose" Hernandez. The Lubbock, Texas, native thrilled fans and fellow boxers alike with his unmatched boxing skills. In his first two fight'>. he fought calculated and controlled bouts against less-skilled opponents. 
Despite Hernandez' unmatched boxing abili­ty, his first fight went all three rounds and his second bout was stopped with less than 10 seconds remaining because of a body shot. In the finals, Hernandez faced junior captain J.R. Mellin. 
\-lellin was a returning champ and the media hyped the match to great proportions. The fight lived up to its billing as the two Notre Dame gentlemen gave their all. In the end it was the freshman's skill that gave him the unanimous decision. His precision punches and unequalled footwork left the stone-jawed, hard-punching Mellin bloody and smiling as he left the ring. Mellin claims the fight was more satisfying than his championship in 1998. 
Amidst the brawls and slugfests of the Bengal Bouts it was apparent that Hernandez had boxing experience prior to coming to Notre Dame. In fact, he has been boxing since the age of eight. vVhile most Notre Dame par­ticipants have nm:er boxed before coming to l\otre Dame, Hernandez' situation is not unique. Recently, John Christoferetti and Lucas Molina both ser.'ed as captains of the Notre Dame Boxing Club and both had prior fighting experience. 
Much attention was drawn to Hernandez for his past experience in the ring and apparently someone got scared. Jn return for helping make the 1999 Bengal Bouts the most success­ful in tournament history, the Notre Dame Boxing Club is not letting Hernandez box in the spring of 2000. 
!\pparently the exposure given to the Hernande7/Mellin fight and the subsequent media attention on El Papoose's past boxing exploits caught the attention of the high-ups involv<'d with the boxing club. Words like "lia­bility" and "law suit" wern whispered between the boxing coaches and the athletic depart­ment, and now "El Pitpoose" will never dance under the lights of the Joyce center again. 
This will do terrible wonders for a team that is already disliked by the University adminis­tration. Hy dropping the quality of competition more wild haymakers will srnd concussion­headed boxe;s to the canvas. Quality amateur boxing rarely sPes a knockdown, but tough­man competitions thrive on novice combatants disregarding their defense and eventually get­ting knocked out. 
The same people who claim to be looking after the boxing club's best interests claim that with boxers like Hernandez mismatches will he prevalent. This is true, it is unlikely that the ma,jority of Bengal boxers can beat someone of Hernandez' abilitv, but it is also true that each and every Notre Dame boxer could lose to him rAspectfully. 
The Bengal Bouts are not about \-\inning or losing. Hernandez' fights last year demonstrat­ed this. Ead, opponent went the distance with him. El Papoose did not go looking for a knock­out, he did not try to hurt anyone, he simply boxed. His sportsmanship and politeness exceed his boxing skills in quality and that was evident in the ring. 
Having people like Hernandez in the boxing program only helps the cause. It brings in donations and increases attendance at the fights. Last year more than 20 fans wore shirts with "El Papoose" boldly printed across the chest. More importantly, Edward helps other boxers. His ad\iice and work ethic encour­age those around him to work harder and push their limits. 
If you ask any Bengal Bouter he will tell you that he would rather give his all and loose to a rep­utable boxer like Hernandez than beat a no-name ½1th little effort. Ironically, the people who decided not to let Hernandez box argue that it is the logical decision to keep him out of the ring. What do logic and boxing have to do ,.,,ith each other any­way? Who can argue that it is logical to enter a contest where your opponent is supposed to hit you in the face? 
Hernandez choose to apply to Notre Dame because, along with an excellent academic reputa­tion, it had boxing. Now they want to change the rules because of him. The truth is Bengal Bouts needs boxers like Edward -boxers who bring civility, compas­sion and kindness to a sport marred with prob­lems. Keeping him from boxing will tarnish the pro­gram's image, result in a drop in attendance and severely degrade El Papoose's Notre 
,Dame experience. 
The Bengal Bouts tradition lives in the students who duck under the ropes as they enter the ring. They face the fears created by the male psyche in order to hetter themselves. They risk injury to their body and ego to help those in need. The Bengal Bouts are boxing, and boxing is about risks. Every ti.me a boxer slips his gloves on, he L'i taking a risk. 
Now the coaches and administrators should take a risk with the boxers to help continue a groat Notre Dame athletic tradition. 
Mike Romanchek 
2000 Bengal Bouts Captain February 23, 2000 

Tarnishing the Dome and Bengal Bouts 
"Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished." -Oominic "Nappy'' Napolitano 
This is the motto of the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts, a statement that embodies all that the boxers stand for and carries deep sentiment in all of those who realizr that the fights aro for charity. It is one of tho most rec­ognized and revered quotes on this campus. 
On this year's postl'lr, perhaps it should be followed by an asterisk. 
The 2000 Bengal Bouts will soon be upon us. Nowhere is this more apparent than in Morrissey Manor, where it seems that about half of the dorm is boxing this year. But ask someone from Morrissey about Bengal Bouts and you won't hoar about the number of mon fighting. Instead, you will hear about the one man who is not. 
Edward Hernandez III wi.ll not be competing in the Bengal Bouts this year for one reason: He is not allowed to participate. The powers-that-be in the Bengal Bouts organization have banned him from fighting in the 2000 Bouts because they are afraid he might hurt someone. They cite his 
'I
extensive boxing experience as an unfair advantage over those who he may face and beat in the ring. They feel he is too good to be fighting beginners and that some poor guy will get in the way of too many of his punches and get hurt. This is a poor argument. It is true that Edward was a U.S.A. Boxing Champion of Texas and continues to win other tournaments as he works to make a bid for the 2000 Olympic Games. He has trained for most of his life as a boxer and there­fore has become a good one. He is easily the best 
boxer on this campus, maybe even the best one to ever attend Notre Dame. But this is no reason to keep him out of Bengal Bouts this year. He will 
not hurt someone because he is such a talented boxer. He could, no doubt. But it is because he is such a talented boxer that he will not hurt anyone. He knows what he is doing in the ring, and he fights for 
points, not blood. It is this serious underesti­mation of Edward's character and sports­manship by the Bengal Bouts organization 
that is preventing him from fighting this year. 
Don't take these statements on faith alone. He fought and won in the 1999 Bengal Bouts and showed amazing restraint in each of his fights. There were no five-punch combinations thrm,vn 
against overmatched rookie opponents. Nobody was knocked unconscious. There weren't even any broken noses. To say that Edward would hurt someone this year is to make the assumption that he will not fight the same as he did last year. Has he not proven himself in that regard? 
Those who argue that Edward shouldn't fight because he would easily have a victo­ry have a point: I'm confident he would win. However, though my fighting talent is 
minimal at best, I would get in the ring a dozen times before I would accept the fact 
that he could not fight. Why? Simple: Anybody who wins Bengal Bouts this year between the classes of 145 and 175 will 
know that their championship came with an asterisk, a condition -the condition that they won without having to face the best boxer. Personally, I would rather lose to Edward in the first round than to win the championship only because he was not there. But not only does it deprive Edward of an oppor­tunity to show his talent but it also takes prestige away from the Bengal Bouts themselves. The loss of Edward is also a loss of excitement in the ring that could have been tapped for further ticket sales. The basis for the Bengal Bouts is charity, meaning that Edward's potential draw should be a godsend to the Bouts. who doesn't want to see a possible Olympian in the ring? Edward had the largest cheering section of any boxer last year and it would of only grown this year. Has this not ever been considered? 
The Bengal Bouts is a program that, with it's long tradition and human­itarian mission, has become part of the definition of this University. The actions ofthe Bengal Bouts, whether good or bad, reflect on the Notre Dame itself. And it is a shame that such a reputation for excellence that both Bengal Bouts and thfl university have established will be tarnished by these poor assumptions. It is not shame, rather more of a crime. But the bigger crime is that Edward will not be able to defend his title this year. 
Matt Wohlberg Senior, Morrissey Manor February 23, 2000 


c~ne E 
page I 2 Thursday, February 24, 2000 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Pitch Black' loses its sci-fi potential 
the best charncter in Lhe film 
By JEFFREY Q. IRISH 
is the convict. His name is Scene Movie Criric 
Riddick. and he is played by 
the appropriately named Vin 
If the Arnold Schwarzenegger movie Diesel !Capt. Caparzo from "Predator" and the somewhat tatty "Saving Private Ryan"). "Starship Troopers" spawned, and Riddick has killed nunrnruus they had a legitimate lovechild, it men, women and childn~n. lie would be "Pitch Black." gives no reason for his mur­
"Black" .is a futuristic thriller about ders. and the audience can a random group of people who an'1 easily see that he has no stranded on a distant planet and remorse. His last few years hunted by native creatures. David have been spent in a futuristic Twohy is the talent.ed filmmaker who prison with f't>w or no lights. wrote and directed "Black," but it is PoLP.ntial attackers would not like his popular films, "The sneak up on him at night. so Fugitive" and "The Arrival." It is more he had a doctor do a "shine like his shamu-slyle flop, job" on his r.yes, allowing him "Waterworld." to see at night. 
Twohy begins "Black" with a slow­Tho special effects am prob­moving shot of the entire length of a ably the highlight of the film, space ship. It is over­although thc>y done ("2001," "Star are reallv
"Pitch Black"
Wars," "Alien," "Star nothing out c;f Trek"). but still a th<' rnundan<'.
·,,. ' 
thrilling shot. As a The planet the
JA' °'l] J
voiceover sets up the group is 
Photo courtesy of USA Films 

story. asteroids pene­out offive shamrocks stranded on 
Vin Diesel plays Riddick, a convict stranded on an unknown planet, in the sci-fi thriller 
trate and force the ship has three suns, 
"Pitch Black."

to crash-land on a bar­Director: David Twohy so the first part ren planet. Most of the of the film has
Starring: Radha Mitchell,
crew is killed on extreme brightness. an thr, nativr, creatures. a multi-million dollar budget and an impact, but of the few Vin Diesel and Cole Hauser almost white back­"Black" was disappointing in that alien world. it is surprising that the that survive there is ground and reflection there is so much potential for creativi­result was not more thrilling. much distrust and bad blood. on all objects (much like "Three ty on an aliPn planr,t. The three-sun The film's running time is only 107 
"High Art's" Radha Mitchell plays Kings"). concept was an interesting dilemma. minutes. which is a relief from the Fry, the captain of the ship. She is a Riddick's special vision blinds him but when the night came it was some­three-hour films of Oscar season, but shady character that tries to save her­during the day but at night allows him what disappointing. People instinc­it may be the reason the film seems 
self and "leave the rest to die" more to see things that the others cannot, tively fr.ar the dark. Last summer's hit somewhat incomplete. Twohy could than once in the film. The other group namelv the native creatures. which "The Blair Witch Project" thrived on have spent morn time setting up the members consist of a Muslim priest. are really similar to the aliens from little more than the audience's foar of background of the flight. \Vas there a an art collector. a few rascally kids "Starship Troopers." In cuts reminis­the dark. Long-held shots of pitch reason why they didn't foresee the 
and a convict. Most of them are token cent of "Predator," we are allowed to bfack. empty space with sounds of asteroid field? He also could have characters. but the surprise (which see the angles and distinct light and vicious alien creatures would have spent a few more minutes ending the really isn't a surprise at all) is that movement visions of both Hiddick and invoked the fear Twohy desired. With film -it seems rushed. 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
Washington struggles for redemption in 'Fire' 
As he struggles with the past. Serling is By JOHN CRAWFORD 
ordered to investigate and prove that a Scene Movie Critic 
Captain Karen Walden. who died in combat 
after she rescued a downed helicopter 
A furnace burns under Denzel Washington's skin. crew. is deserving of the Medal of Ilonor. 
In his best work. such as his recent Oscar-nominated The heroine's feel-good story will provide turn in 'The Hurricane," Washington portrays men strug­"one little shiny piece of something for peo­gling to subdue or strangle their feelings. On the surface, ple to bdieve in." Hut, as Serling soon dis­his characters are flesh-and-blood statues. stones slowly covers. there are inconsistencies in the sto­cracking into tears. On the inside. regrets and memories ries of the soldiers involved in Walden's wage war over emotional battlefields. rescue. 
In 1996's "Courage Under Fire," Washington plays In a recurring flashback, the Wald1rn res­Nathaniel Serling. a lieutenant colonel struggling with the cue mission is replayed again and again. ghosts of war. Directed by Edward Zwif:k, whose prevfous each time changing slightly with a different efforts include "The Siege," "Legends soldier's version of the of the Fall." and most notably. "Glory," evont. In many ways,
''Courage Under
for which Washington won a best sup­this technique is remi­porting actor Oscar. "Courage Under niscent of Akim
Fire"
Fire" shows men confronting their Kurosawa's dark mas­memories of r.ombat and how those terwork «Ha.shomon ," memories warp and bend. War buries Director: Edward Zick where a rape and mur­
the truth. and everyone from army dor is told from four investigators to reporters to soldiers Starring: Denzel Washington, Meg contlicting vfowpoinL'3. tries to discover or hide it. Ryan, Matt aamon and Lou Oiamond Serling obsesses ovor The lilm is set against the backdrop Walden. hoping that by
Phillips
of the Gulf \Var. where oil vrnlls burn pursuing tho truth. 
in the night and tanks roll over a hr.'ll find his won desert wasteland. It depicts rnodt>rn conf1ir.t fought with redemption. It is not easily found. scanners and scopes and radar screen blips -a video "You agree that this report Ion Walden! game with rockeLc; and bullets. should be as dntailnd and ncr.urato as pos­
It is also brutal. Before riding into battle, Serling tells his sibl,~?" S0rling asks his commanding 0!11­
Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox 

men, "Let's kill them all.. " Firing a machine gun at Iraqi Cfff, portrayed by Michanl Mori,ll't.y 
In "Courage Under Fire," Nathaniel Sterling (Denzel Washington) 
soldiers, he flashes his teeth with a killed-or-be-killf'd "Which mrans Pxactly what. colonel?" 
must find out the truth about a fellow soldier.
intensity. Moriarty roplios. Indeed, the truth. as well During the battle, however, Serling accidentally orders as redemption, is hard to capture. his men to fire on an Amf'rir:an lank. Heturning home, this Besidrs Washington, 1hr. film foaturos a 
at one point, uUers the words. "Kill that mother------." decision haunts him. At times crumpled and crushed with macho Lou Diamond Phillips and Malt. Damon, looking 
Unfortunately, she still looks too cuto and act.<; too cheeryguilt. other times mean and angry, he hides in bars and rvrn more hovish than usual. 
to bo a soldier. Perhaps it's just her film baggage, all those motel rooms. Ile becomes isolated from his family. Meg Ryan, c)f all people, plays Walden. Surprisingly, the 
movies of her mooning over Billy Crystal and Torn Hanks, ··colonel, the war is over," he is told, but for Serling and role doesn't involvr. comedy. romance or any combination 
that caUS(lS her to come off. at times, as a sort of Martha the other soldiers in the film. the war is never over. of the two. In fact, she evPn shoots guns, kills pPoplc. and 
Stewart in combat boots. 



Thursday, February 24, 2000 page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Sharp dialogue thrives in 'Boiler Room' 
more than a year By MATT NANIA interviewing real­Assistant Scene Editor 
life brokers. Younger clearly "Boiler Room." a hot ticket at the has a firm grasp recent Sundance Film Festival. is a no­on the convoluted frills, tight-budget version of "Wall workings of pop Street." and business sub­
First-time writer/dirnctor Ben cultures, as r,vi­Younger does a smart if derivative job denced by the demonstrating the influence of late-film's deft display 20th-century myths on ambitious of the process of young men looking for a quick score in cold sales calls to tlrn stork market. Tempted by tales of closing. Mirrosof't millionaires and othr,rs who In a world made their fortunes on stock options, where it seems the film's 19-year-old hero. Seth Davis everyone is a day {Giovanni llibisi). declarns that "nobody trader and where wants to work for it anymore." MirrosofL secre­
Seth. a smart, aimless young man in taries make as his early 20s, has dropped out of col­much money as lege to run a small but profitable illegal professional ath­gambling operation out of his dumpy letes, the subject apartment. Oogged by a painful rhild­matter is highly hood nrnmory that makes him desper­topical. ate to win his father's approval, Seth The script is accepts a job at a small brokerage firm also peppered that -while literally only hours away with some of the from Wall Strn,'t -is figuratively Jight­sharpest dialogue yrars rt~moved from that sacred money in recent memory haven. \ a single line turns 
Filled with young, arrogant and a potentially obnoxious 20-sonrnthing white guys. homophobic the lledgling firm makes money hand exchange into the 
Ben Affleck (left) plays recruiter Jim Young opposite Giovanni Ribisi's Seth Davis in "Boiler Room."
over fist. promising all new recruits film's biggest that they will be millionaires. laugh) and the In fart. these wannabee millionaires give-and-take between the frat-boy­romance involving Seth and the recep­Nicky Katt {"The Lirney"). Scott Caan ... gel off by watrhing Michael Douglas esque brokers comes off as intensely tionist (Nia Long) rings false. The l1lm's ("Varsity Blues"), Jamie Kennedy and Charlie Sheen manipulating merg­authentic. pace also slows down for a few senti­("Scream" series), and Tom Everett ers in OlivPT Stone's cynical "Wall mental speed bumps whr,n Seth meets Scott {"That Thing You Do!") all flesh
Even more interesting is the way Street." They're like a these highly privi­with his father. out their sketchy roles. bunch of kids watch­leged young white Ribisi ("Saving Private Ryan"), who's Ben Affleck's cameo as a no-non­
"Boiler Room"
ing "l[omP J\lonf'" for men so often slip into done consistently fine supporting work sense recruiter, although a bit glori­hip-hop vernacular ­
thr 40th lime. 
in the past, is solid in the lead, bringing fied, is nearly on par with Alec Seth quirkly estab­both naturally and a palpable, heartbroken quality to his Baldwin's speech in the similar•themed as with self-conscious
lishes himself a character, even whr,n he's cockily com­"Glengarry Glen Ross," a speech bright. young recruit, out of five shamrocks parody. The sound­manding clients. But his seemingly Affleck is clearly trying to imitate. learning the ropes track. which is wall­overnight rise from shy recruit to Sadly, Ben Younger's debut adds lit­and bringing in new Director: Ben Younger to-wall hip hop, expert manipulator is hard to buy, as is tle to the filmic pantheon in his own 
his emotional bre.tkdown sequence voice. A lot of what "Boiler Room" has
rlients with ease. It's Starring: Giovanni Ribisi, underscores the irony 
only after his instincts of how a music and with his father, which feels like some­to say is familiar and obvious. Even the hone in on some ethi-Vin Diesel, Nia Long and Ben Affleck culture from the thing right out of Acting 101. film's most prolific statement on the cal discrepancies that streets of impover­The fresh appearance of Nia Long American obsession with getting rich, he realizi:s that his ished inner-cities devolves into repre­{"The Wood") is appreciated. but she is "either you 're slinging crack rock or former "illegal" career was actually senting these brokers' conspicuous completely underutilized by a script you've got a wicked jump shot." is a nobler than his new one. and the cushv consumption. that treats her more as a plot device quote from rap star Notorious B.I .G. new life he's building for himself' While the story trajectory performs than as a character. However, the talent evident through­
However, several up-and-coming out "Boiler Room" makes Younger a
rnquires a moral meltdown. at a credible level. it makes certain "BoilP.r Hoom" is a very impressive veers for easy points and, not surpris­young actors get a workout. Vin Diesel filmmaker to watch. Now that's some­
drbut rrom Ben Younger, who spent ingly, drops when it does. A superficial ("Saving Private Ryan," "Pitch Black"), thing to invest in. 

Box OFFICE 
Bnw<· Willis Matthew Perr.v 
In th<:-ht<.1fl of Rabtltb,:t ;':I. hit man with hMrt h.u. i-tl1.l mov«f iFl, 





In the black comedy "The Whole Nine Yards,"the husband in a newlywed couple (Matthew Perry) begins to suspect his new next door neighbor (Bruce Willis) may be an assassin, and tries to find out the truth. "The Whole Nine Yards" brought in $15.9 million this weekend, just beat­ing out the Meg Ryan comedy "Hanging Up." 
Photo courtesy of Warner Bros. Pictures 

Weekend of Feb. IB-20 

Movie Title Weekend Sales Total Sales 
1. 
The Whole Nine $ 15.9 million $ 15.9 million Yards 

2. 
Hanging Up $ 15. 7 million $ 15.7 million 

3. 
Snow Day $ 15.2 million $ 31.9 million 

4. 
Pitch Black $ 13.4 million $ 13.4 million 

5. 
The Tigger Movie $ 10.6 million $ 22.3 million 

6. 
Scream 3 $ 9.8 million $ 71.4 million 

7. 
The Beach $ 8.2 million $ 28. 7 million 

8. 
Boiler Room $ 6. 7 million $ 6.7 million 

9. 
American Beauty $ 6.6 million $ 81.4 million 

10. 
The Cider House $ 3.4 million $ 26.9 million Rules 


Source: lntemel Movie Database 

C~rney 
continued from page 24 
for the love of the game. Ask him why he decided to play and he'Il respond with a line typical of a collegiate athlete. 
"I love playing even though I'm not playing in games. There are a lot of people that aren't going to get this oppor­tunity. I feel lucky." 
Unlike many athletes. the look on his face tells you that he means it. 
At 6 feet and 160 pounds, Thomas finds himself often overmatched practicing with a team that features just one other player under 6-foot-3. 
Whatever size he gives up. though, is made up in an unparalleled effort at every practice. 
A walk-on's stage is the prac­tice court. playing without the roar of the crowd. playing where the only reward is one that comes from within. 
"I probably work harder than most of the guys in practice," he said. "It's my job to help them out and show them what to expect from the other team. Without working as hard as I can, I'm not doing my job." 
Thus is the life of a walk-on. Work harder so that others can receive the acclaim. 
What distinguishes Charles Thomas though, is not his abili­ty or work ethic on the court. but his work ethk off of the court. Carrying a 3.3 GPA in the science-business major is difficult for the average person, let alone someone that has to miss class for games and spend a significant amount of time normal students use for study­ing chasing the Irish point guards around the court. 
Thomas doesn't have the lux­ury of a Troy Murphy, who can look toward the riches in the NBA and consider his practice time as a way to increase his marketability. Basketball is merely a hobby, something that he loves to do. 
''I've always considered myself an athlete, but more so as a student. That's how I got in here [academics] and that's what I intend to do afterward." 
Maybe that's why the amount of time he spends in the gym is paltry compared to the combi­nation of five hours of class time and almost eight hours he spends sitting as his desk studying. Thomas is a living example of a student-athlete that truly puts the student before the athlete. 
"He's a perfectionist when he studies. He has to know every little aspect fully," says Thomas's roommate Phil Irvine, himself a former stu­dent-athlete. 'There's no kind­of-knowing stuff to Charles. He's remarkable." 
Of course, there's only so much you can squeeze into 24 hours. a fact that Thomas knows all too well. 
"If I'm out of practice, I should be doing homework. My social life suffers, but it's worth 
it. .. 
Why would someone choose to put both his body and mind through such rigorous days? Why would someone choose to forego many of the simple plea­sures that accompany college life? For Thomas. there are two answers. 
The first involves the nature of his personality. He's a per­son that needs to be active, needs to be overwhelmed with obligations. 
"If I didn ·t have this much to do, I'd be bored out of my mind. I'd feel like I had nothing to do." 
The other resembles that of a past Notre Dame legend. 
"It's the Rudy thing. I know I can do it. I want that opportu­nity to play. I've had a few opportunities to play a few minutes this year. J know my role, but it's sure a great feel­ing to play." 
As for the future, Thomas has lofty goals. 
'Tltimately, I want to start. I know it's not totally realistic, but hey, God can do anything. I'll just keep working hard and put the rest in his hands." 
For now, though, Thomas will just continue.to be both student and athlete, striving for perfection in both. Don't tell him that it's not possible. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
his career. 

On Saturday the Irish take on regional rival Ohio State. Matching two of the top teams in the northPrn United States. this game should prove to be a test for tho Irish. 
"EvPrybody in our program is very excited about being able to play Ohio State," said Mainieri, "Obviously, both teams have a lot of pride in their programs. When you get on the field you'd like to see who's the better team." 
The added factor for the Irish is the large number of Ohio natives on the team's roster. Starting center-fielder Steve Stanley, 
strong middle-relief guys," said Mainieri. "We have a lot of guys that I think are capa­ble of doing it, it's just a mat­ter of giving them the oppor­tunities and whoever takes advantage of th~ opportunities will earn the premier roles." 
While the depth in the pitch­ing may be a question mark for the Irish, the team's offense is an obvious strength. While all-time home run leader Jeff Wagner graduated and last year's starting short­stop Brant Ust left to play in the Detroit Tigers organiza­tion. the team returns startP-rs at every other position. 
The team features a new top or the lineup as sophomore O'Toole moves from the sec­ond spot to bat leadoff while fellow sophomore Stanley flip­
flops to 
catcher Paul bat in the
"We couldn't be more 
O'Toole and No. 2 spot.
confident going in to play
third baseman The move Andy Bushey all Ohio State." was made hail from the to provide Buckeye State. m o r e
John Corbin

''I'm looking power at 
Irish closer

forward to play­the top of 
ing Ohio State," said O'Toole. "Because I'm from Ohio, I know..a bunch of guys on the tnam. 
Notre Dame starts junior Aaron Heilman against Ohio State. Heilman was named a first team preseason All­American by Baseball America and Collegiate Baseball after posting an 11-2 record to go along with a 3 .14 ERA and 118 strikeouts in 109 innings last season. 
"We couldn't. be more confi­dent going in to play Ohio State," said senior closer John Corbin, "We're starting our best pitcher, who's probably the best pitr.her in the coun­try." 
On Sunday, Notre Dame faces on local favorite Memphis before taking on a still undetermined service academy team. Starting pitr.h­ing behind Heilman and Cavey is still up in the air. and pitch­ers for the Sunday games have yet to be determined. 
"The big question for us is, who is going to step up as the third and forth starters as well as who arc going to be the the lineup. 
"I foe! like when I'm leading off an inning that for some reason I hit better," said O'Toole. "Coach's strategy is that he'd like to have a guy who can lead off the game with a dou­ble, whereas Steve is more of a bunt and steal-bases kind of guy." 
Bushey, coming off a suc­cessful freshman season, bats third followed by junior short­stop Alec Porzel. Porzr.l moves from second base to shortstop this season, his high school position. Considered by his coach to be the most under­rated player in the Big East, Porzel lead the Irish with 60 runs batted in last season. 
Spots five through seven in the lineup will be occupied by some combination of fresh­man right fielder Brian Stavisky, senior first baseman Jeff Felker and senior left fielder/designated hitter Matt Nussbaum. 
Stavisky was rated by Baseball America as the No. 5 freshman in the nation. The magazine also recognized the strong left-handed hitter as having the best "raw power" among Big East players. 
Felker, rated as the top defensive first baseman in the conference, is wrapping up a. successful career for the Irish this season. The Maryland native looks to improve on his .333 batting average and 40 RBI last season. 
. Nussbaum is one of the most interesting players on the Irish roster. A former walk­on, he went hitless his first two seasons. Last season he gained opportunities as a 011 and left-fielder and responded with a .314 batting average and 33 runs batted in. This season he adds the ability to play catcher to his resume, a relief for O'Toole, who took a toll behind the plate last sea­son. 
"I really want to do anything I can to help this team win the Big East this season," said Nussbaum, "The biggest way that I think I r.an do that is to develop myself as a catcher. Paul caught so many innings last year that I'd really like to be able to take some of the load off of him." 
The eighth spot will be ocr.u­picd by a variety of players who will rotate with Nussbaum as the left-fielder and designated hitter. Junior Ben Cooke, who has played every position on the diamond except catcher, could fill this role. 
Senior co-captain second baseman Jeff Perconte will bat in the number nine hole, uti­lizing his speed as a "second lead-off man." The speedy switch-hitter batted .323 last season in 96 at-bats before a shoulder injury ended his sea­son early. Perconte looks to fulfill his role as a leader this season, sharing co-r.aptain duties with Nussbaum and Heilman. 
"I try to be more of an example than anything. I try to go out everyday and play as hard as I can," said Percontc. 'Tm not really different from any other people except some of the other players look at me for leadership a little." 
The games this weekend can be heard on WJVA 1580 AM as well as on the Internet at www.und.com 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must he prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SUBLEASE YOUR HOME this 1 · bdrm Apt, walk in closet, parking Need help with a project? summer to visiting faculty of ND. space. In nice residential area on a Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING NOTICES LOST & FOUND Needed in June and July. Professor FOR RENT lake, 10 min drive from ND. services are available at 
with 3 children and a dog. Must be $400/mo. $250 dep. Postgrad stu­THE COPY SHOP NORTH DINING HALL Help! Silver and blue Guess watch close to Notre Dame. Please call ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE dent or faculty only. No smoking, no LaFortune Student Center STUDENT WORKERS lost somewhere between Debartolo 631-3165. AND CLOSE alcohol, no party. Call 277-0189 Call 631-COPY ARE THE GREATEST! (rooms 155 or 205) and the SDH on http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ betw 12-9pm. THANK YOU FOR ALL Friday. February 18. If found SUMMER CHILD CARE NEEDED email:mmmrentals@aol.com Fax it fast! YOUR EFFORTS AND please call Julie at 237 4. for visiting faculty of ND. Schedule 232-2595 Fax it fast! 
TEAMWORK wilt include day class time, some Fax it fast! 
FOR SALE 

OVER JPW WEEKEND. ••··-·•·•·•10st'•·..•·••··•••• evening and weekend hours. Will Sending & Receiving NDH STAFF silver Yashica camera on 2/18 near need references. Call for an B'NB REGISTRY New Phone Card THE COPY SHOP JACC -had JPW pies appointment 631-3165. 219·291-7153 886 mins. $20 Lafortune Student Center THE COPY SHOP 258-4805 or 243-9361 Our Fax# (219) 631-3291 LaFortune Student Center CALL 634-3040 ASPIRING WRITERS! Store Hours www.maincampus.com seeks stu­Beautiful brass bed, queen size, o staff -be careful on the week­Mon-Thur: 7·30am-Mid dents for stories ranging from 3-4 bdrm new home, 1/p, cathedral with orthopedic mattress set and end travels. You never know what's
WANTED
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Politics/Sex/Culture/Opinions ceilings, 3 baths, deluxe frame. New, never used,'still gonna jump up and bite your 'Daily• Sat: Noon-6:0opm $25 per story! 2-car garage, family room. in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 off. Sun: Noon-Mid FUNT COMPLETE PERSONNEL Email us at: $1400/mo Free Pick-Up & Delivery! SERVICES eam@maincampus.com 616-683-5038 finch, Call 631·COPY 102 N. MAIN ST. 219-340-1844 TICKETS parlez-vous francais? We're open late so your order will SOUTH BEND 219-232-4527 be done on time! FLINT IS RECRUITING FOR THE Stropantsky, 
FOLLOWING PERMANENT POSI· LACROSSE OFFICIALS Need 3 Nd·Mich St. Hockey Tix. I'd like to buy a vowel, please. BUILD CONDOS, APARTMENTS TION Officials needed for Men's Call Matt 273-2802. -Nancy OR OFFICES. INSIDE SALES REPRESENTATIVE Internal! Lacrosse. This is a EXCELLENT 5 BEDROOM HOUSE Land for lease. 1/2 acre on Ivy Growing and Expanding Staffing great way to get outside, earn GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097 pq • show ·em who's boss Road across from Eck Baseball Looking For Highly Motivated, good money, & have fun! Stadium. Energetic Person. Must Have C/S Attend the mandatory officials PERSONAL then tell them to shove it Write: Skills and Sales Exp. meeting on Wed. 3/1 @ 6pm oh, that's right. That's the plan. LAND Interested Candidates Please in Rolf's Sports Rec. Center NICE HOMES FOR NEXT 704 PEASHWAY Contact Kim or con tac! Brandon Leimbach SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA www.thecommentator.com Ip, SOUTH BEND, IN 46617 (219) 233-2150 @631-3536. NORTH 2773097 we miss you so much 
J 
Thursday, February 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
student unialJ 
HAPPENINli!i 
STUDENT UNION BOARD www.nd.edu/~sub 
Movie of the Week: Three Kings. 2/24. Thursday. 101 DeBartolo. 1030PM. Admission: $2 at the door. 2/25. Friday. 101 DeBartolo. 0B00PM & 1030PM. 2/26. Saturday. 101 DeBartolo. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 2/24. Thursday. Lafortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. 
John Mccourt, Former IRA Member. 2/29. Tuesday. Hesburgh Auditorium. 0730PM. Admission: $1 
Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
2/25. Friday. Stepan Center. 0730PM. Student Admission: $4. Free all-festival pass to the first 150 students. 
2/26. Saturday. Stepan Center. 0730PM. Student Admission: $2. 
Vertical Horizon and Stroke 9 Concert Tickets. 2/24. On sale now. Lafortune Info Desk. $14 with Student ID. $16 regular admission. NAZZ Applications Available. 2/28. Monday. SUB Office (2nd Floor Lafortune). 
CLAS§ OF i!OOO 
Harlem ·Globetrotters Game with Boys and Girls Club. 2/26. Saturday. Class Office. Stop by the Class office (2nd floor LaFortune) for details. Class Dinner. 3/1. Wednesday. 
CLASS OF i!OOI 
Ice Skating at the JACC. 2/28. Monday. JACC. 1100PM-0100AM. 
CCC/CAMPUS WIDE 
Club Registration. 2/24-25. Thursday-Friday. CRC (3rd Floor LaFortune). 1000AM-0700PM. Grab and Give. 2/25. Friday. North Dining Hall. Sponsored by the classes 2000, 2001, 2002. French Film festival. 2/27. Sunday. Snite Annenburg Auditorium. 0200PM. Showing Trois Cou/eurs: 8/eu. 
HALL PRESIDENT'§ COUNCIL · 
Date Week. This coming week. Check campus advertisements for details. 
STLJDENT liOI/ERNMENT · ,_ .: 
Student Services Week. 2/28. Monday. Outside of DeBartolo. In the morning. Free bagels and coffee. T-shirt designs due for St. Patrick's Day contest. 2/29. Tuesday. LaFortune Ballroom. 1200·0130PM. Academic lunch with Faculty, Deans, and Administrators. All colleges and majors invited. North/South Dining Halls. During dinner hours Karaoke. 3/1. Wednesday. Men's Basketball Game. Free giveaway. 
~ .. . 
!iTLJDENT LJNION TREASURER'S OFFICE . . . . 
Applications for Assistant Treasurer. Due by Friday, 2/25. Applications available at Treasurer's Office or Student Government office 
Student Government is accepting nominations for the Irish Clover Awards through March 1. The clover award is for a student and a non-student in the community who had made significant contributions to Notre Dame. Pick up an application in the Student Government office. Call 1-7668 for more details. 
Student Leadership Award nominations are sue to the Student Activities office by March 8. 


MAJOR.,l.EAGUE BASEBALL 
Cleveland looks for improved pitching 
New Indians manager 
Assoda,e<l Press 
Charlie Manuel will also have to decide whether to keep
WINTER HAVEN, Fla. 

seven relievers or six. 
The Cleveland Indians are "We probably won't do any­hoping some of their starting 
thing until near the end of 
pitchers can he finishers this 
camp," Manuel said. "IL 
season, tuo. 
depPnds on whethf'r the 
Cleveland was ranked last in starters can go five-to-seven· 
the AL with just three com­
innings right from the start of Sf..Ed11/Wabk Geutte Watc.k qc, Wat,k 13"41elfl.CKf. 7r,tt<
plete games last year. This 
the year and the health of the 
season. Indians general man­Siegurued/PW Sexe6 T1twia. mSiegbwul.
staff." ager John Hart plans to get Manuel faces some other fffcww3eg/ffewa,'U{/.tyOlf.3 ..ca. E~fJeiuutzlL 6o.e.d. more innings from his starters. pitching decisions in his first ad VCQttt. £e6o~ 71>~ i4', KL,.WMey
'This is the year we'd like to 

year as Cleveland manager. 'PE Sauua Pwuq 3-5pM ~ide. -PE
have five starters pitch 200 
He needs to find a closer to 
innings each," Hart said f~ ~Qt 'Oweui!y. ffelU~ 7pm
replace Mike Jackson, a sec­Wednesday. "Jaret Wright is ond left-hander in the bullpenlhe one guy who's never done 
to go along with Ricardo it, but he's built for 200 
Rincon and a long reliever. 
innings. This is the first time 
Hired to replace Mike 
we're looking to get 1,000 Hargrove following the· 
innings out of our starters. 
Indians' postscason loss to 
We've never had a rotation we Boston, Manuel will hold his felt had a chance to do that." 
first full-squad workout as a The Indians invited 33 pitch­
big league manager on 
ers to training camp, and will Thursday,break camp at the end of next Manuel said Wednesday, fol­month with 11 or 12 on their lowing the arrival of shortstop 25-man roster. The final num­Omar Vizquel and third base­ber will depend in part on how man Travis Fryman, that all of Wright, coming off a dismal the Indians position players 

-----------------1 I 
I I
Notre Dame Film, Television and Theatre presents 
I I 
: The following positions are available: : I * Photography Editor * Organizations Editor I I 1 * Campus Life Editor * Year-in-Review Editor I 1 
l) 
: * Seniors Editor * Sports Editor : 
. ~~_-/_>
.,, I I 
' ·• /I"".;; I I 
I I
Attors fro111 tl1e L_)11do11 Stag·e 1 Interested candidates call: I All's Well That Ends Well I I 1 Ann Marie at 631-7524 by Wed. March 1 I I 1 
b~ William Shakespeare 
:I :I 
Sttnday Matinee. February 20 .......... 2:30 pm Thursday. February 24 ...................... 7:30 pm Wednesday. February 23 ....-.............. 7:30 pm Frtday. February 25 ........................... 7::JU pm . Saturday. February 26 ......................... 7:30 pm 
~--------------------------------~ 
season, and Cuban defector 
had reported
Danys Baez pitch this spring. 
REPAY YOUR LOANS 
$4725 Education Award & Benefits 
MAKE A DIFFERENCE 
Educate and Lead Chicago's Youth Break Dm-vn Social Barriers. 
JOIN CITY YEAR 
AmeriCorps National Service 
Full-time positions begin in late August 2000 
CONTACT US at www.cityyear,org 312-464.9899, ext. 250 545 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, IL 60611 
*Applications are available at yow· caree1· center· 
Meet us at Notre Dame Februal}' 25 *in LaFortune Student Center from 10-3pm *for an Information Session in DeBartolo Hall, ropm 113 from 4-5pm 
Ye.awula.y•& F1tee 'O@&ellf. peii. coup 
-Paf't1-Vifte.'o ~ iq,petizett !lit. w~eld pe.>t ~ei Cluiekg Cku6e Fue ~ 'Beaetut 'Bawl G~ &twl &,tu witk bu Guy g~ 
r--------------------------------~
I  I  
I l  ~  Dome  I !  
I  I  
•----+-­!dome  Yearbook  I!  
I  I  
I  I  
:  is interviewing all interested undergrads  :  
:  for 2000-2001 Section Editors.  :  

Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats S16 • Seniors S14 • Ail Students S12 Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
Support your teams. 
The residency ol Actors from rhe lnodon Stage 1s sponsored. in pa~. bv :he He~kels Lacl\ire Senes. 

Attend their games 
---·­
page 17

Thursday, February 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
CAMPUS 
Calendar of Events 
Freshman Retreat #28 (Mar. 34) Sign-Up 
Monday, February 14 through Monday, February 28, 103 Hesburgh Library Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phlltips, Howard, Keough, Knott. Lyons, McG!inn, Pasquerill,i.West, and Sorin 
Senior Retreat #2 (Mar. 31-Apr.1) Sign-Up 
Monday, February 14 through Friday, March 24 103 Hesburgh library 
6-part class series on Natural F~fy Planning for engaged and married couples ,,;;;II\ 
1 

Thursday, February 24, 7:00-9:QO pm, Montgomery Theatre. Lafortune,$tudent Center Co-Sponsored by the Office o Ministry and The Natural Family Program I) County Fee: $125.00 Financial Aid l~hvl!lilab1e. To register call 237-7405 
· · ·· "' 
Handbell Choir Tour to Mic Friday-Saturday, February 2 
Senior Transition Retreat' 
Friday-Saturday, February 2 , . . Co-Sponsored with the Cen~rirorSociafConcerns 
ROTC Freshman Retreat , · Saturday-Sunday, February< Moreau Seminary 
Pop Farley Mass • ND Ha Sunday, Febnrary_;z:,; 10: 
Farley Hall Chapef'.;: / 
Notre Dame Encounter rte (April 14-16) Sign-Up . Monday, Februaiy28 thro 
103 Hesburgh Ubrary 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, February 29, 7:0013Jt:i';Ba 
Graduate Student Bible StudyGroup' 
Wednesday, Ma~ch 1, 8:00"p[li;;fW · 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Wednesday, March 1, 10:00.~10:30 p.m,r Walsh Hall Chapel . . . . 

Eighth Sunday of Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, February 26 Mass 
5:00 p,m. Rev. Randall C Rentner, C.S.C 
Sunday, February 27 Mass 
10:00 a.m. Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C 
11:45 a.m. Rev. John A. Herman, C.S,'"G. 
Scripture Readings for This Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  Hos 2:16b, 17b, 21-2.2  
2nd Reading  2 Cor 3:1b-6  
Gospel  Mark 2:18-22  


MINISTRY 
Hey You Seniors Out There! 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 

Well, we've entered the home stretch. I wish I could provide here some pearl of wisdom that could make these final days at Notre Dame all that you would have them be. The stark reality that there is but one more semester, one more spring break, one more ... leaves you a bit nostalgic, if not stunned. There won't prove enough time in each day, especially as the weather improves, to spend with friends and to visit those places on this campus which mean the most to you ... much less study! 
As I think back, oh so long ago, on my waning days at the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minnesota, what I remember most are the late nights spent with those who had come to mean so much to me over the years. The gatherings I remember with particular fondness weren't the occa~ions when we happened into one another as we often did in the places we normally frequented. It was those intentional times, those times that we went out of our way to gather and to do something special together, that I remember most now. As our days together grew fewer we found ourselves particularly attentive to just such gatherings ... an overnight at the lakeside cottage of one of our number... a Mass that we coordinated with a priest friend at one of the off-campus houses... a walk with a friend on the meandering paths beside the Mississippi which borders the campus. 
I remember one night in particular which seems almost corny in the retelling but which meant the world to me then... and does still. Eight of us who had been particularly close during our years together at St. Thomas decided that we weren't going to leave that place without ritualizing in some way all that we had known together and celebrate all the ways that we had grown together. Although we were all busy folks, the reality of our imminent departure compelled us to make the time that we seemed never to have. Our schedules dictated that we would gather very late and very local. We settled on a weekend night in late April. We decided that we would head to the other side of the river by car and then wade out to a large sandbar which was easily accessed from that side and which had always beckoned us from the campus side... however much the signs to the contrary might have discouraged more timid spirits. 
It was Midnight before we arrived with our provisions and a guitar in tow. We settled into a large circle, stoked up a small, albeit illegal, camp­fire and proceeded to remember, and to sing and to pray. We didn't really have an agenda, and I don't remember that any one of us felt particularly competent to lead prayer, but we just knew that it was what we had to do... we knew it was, somehow, the men and women we had become over the years together. We had become people who knew that we were somehow bound up not only with each other, but with God, and because of God. As we entertained, and feared, life beyond the community that we had come to know and love, we knew ourselves to need something more than each other to sustain and nurture us, and in some sense, something more than ourselves to keep us together. We were headed in a variety of directions and vocations, to great professional opportunities, to the Peace Corps, to professional and graduate schools, and yes, for some, to unemployment. We talked and we laughed and we cried; and as the sun was peaking up in the eastern sky we each took time to pray aloud for one another and for those things which most consumed our minds and our hearts on that early spring morning. 
There was nothing particularly noteworthy about this gathering other than the fact that it happened, that eight people took a little time to be together and to mark the holiness of their days together. It will surely go unnoted in the recorded history of human events, but for those of us who were there it is one of the more memorable moments of our young lives. There is irony in the fact that the moment during which we gathered to remember all that mattered most to us has become the moment we most remember. I'll close by simply urging each of you to attend to just such moments. One of the ways in which you can do this is made available through the Office of Campus Ministry. We are offering two more Senior Retreats before the end of this academic year: March 31-April 1 and April 14-15. The retreat is a chance to spend 24 hours away in a structured and prayerful setting to reflect on the things that have been important to you here. Grab a friend and join us! As appealing as Club and Coaches may be (and have always been!), this retreat may mean more to you than almost anything you choose to do in these waning days. Think twice before you say yet again that you're just too busy or that you don't have enough time. These remaining days are all the time you've got. 
n 
0 
z 
H 
ti:I 
~ ~ 
1-3 H 
0 
z 
-("AMPUS
fv11NISTRY 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 24, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Trades, possible suspension shake up lineups 
Cashman relayed the nrnssage
Associated Press 
from the commissioner's office. "We were trying to do it withWhile the San Diego Padres as little fanfare as possible,"found their leadoff hitter, the manager Joe Torre said. 
New York Yankees will have to 
Elsewhere, Frank Thomas
start looking for a designated 
reported to White Sox camp,
hitter. 
Rav Lankford was a no-showThe Padres acquired outfield­for. the Cardinals and Jeff Kent 
er Al Martin from the 
was sidcl.ined for San
Pittsburgh Pirates on 
Francisco.
Wcdncsd·ay for John Vander Martin replaces Quilvio VerasWal and two minor leaguers. 
atop the Padres' lineup, even
"This makes us a beitPr 

though his .3]7 on-base per­club." Padres general manager centage was low for a leadoff
Kevin Towers said. "Al Martin 
hitler.
has had success hitting at the 
"I like Al Martin. but the
top and middle of the Lineup thing is, is he a leadoff hitter?" 
and has always been a club 
Padres star Tony Gwynn asked. 
leader and a tremendous club­"Al Martin is a guy who canhouse presence." 
help us, but I'm not sure he
Mf\anwhile, Strawberry was helps us in the leadoff spot." 

ordered off the practice field Martin hit .277 with 97 runsand could be suspended for I.he 
scored, a career-high 24
season after a positive cocaine homers and 20 steals last year. 
test. 
"I try to set the tone by beingThe Yankees were taking bat­
aggressive and getting on
ting practke when Strawberry base," he said. "Runs are whatwas told to go to the clubhouse, wins games. not on-base per­where general manager Brian 
centage." Please join us for a discusHion on the 

With 3 Falun Dafa practitioners from Chicago 
MONDAY, FEB. 28 
5-6:30 PM 
204 DEBARTOLO HALL 
Please join us in a discussion regarding the recent political suppression and human rights violations the Falun Gong have faced in China and learn about their belief system and exercises that have intriguer!. millions of folJowers. 

The Pirates received Triple-A reliever Jim Sak, who may compote for their doser's job, and right-hander Geraldo Padua, a borderline prospect. 
The trade clears the way for Chad Hermansen, who hit 60 homers in Triple-A the last two seasons, to play every day in the majors. Ile will play along­side Brian Giles in either right or centN field, with Wil Cordero replacing Martin in left. 
"We nef!d to see what Chad is or whal. he's going to be. We know he has great tools and he had two great years in Triplc­A," manager Gene Lamont said. 
The Yankees had hmm count­ing on Strawberry t.o be tlrnir tvp designated hitter this sea­son with the reliremcrnt of Chili Davis. 
"I hope it's not the end for him because I don't know what that would mean," Torm said. 
Strawberry, who has alrnady been suspended twice for drugs, is expected to learn his fate from commissioner Bud Selig on Thursday. Asked if a one-year suspension was likely, a high-ranking baseball official, speaking on the condition he not be identified, said: "That's a good guess." 
The eight-time All-Star, who turns 38 next month, tested positive for cocaine Jan. 19. a violation of probation stemming from a no-contest plea to charges of cocaine possession and soliciting a prostitute in Tampa last spring. 
'Tm going to stand by him. I'm going to try to see that he rights his life. If it's in baseball, fine. If it's outsidn baseball. fine," owner George Steinbrenner said. "It isn't like Gcorgo has given him enough chances, now dump him. DuII)p him ... I don't think so." 
Thomas arrived in Tucson, Ariz., after missing Chicago's first workout to be with his ail­ing father. 
"l thought I would lose him over weekend," Thomas said. "JJe's doing a little better. But you have bad kidneys and heart at the same time, it's a tough situation." 
Thomas, the AL MVP in 1993 and l 994. is hoping to reverse his struggles at the plate the last two seasons by working again with former hitting coach Walt Hriniak. 
"I worked with him for years. You saw the best of me· with Walt." Thomas said. "We're bringing him just as a consul­tant." 
Lankford was the only player to miss St. Louis' first full work­out in .Jupiter, Fla. 

Breakfast the way it was meant to be. Hot, fresh, at ND and made by someone else. 

DELICOUS, FRESH-BAKED CINI-MINIS OR SAUSAGE EGG AND CHEESE BISCUIT. 
Ifyou don't consider yourself a morning person, perhaps these will make you reconsider. Delicious, hot Cini-Minis, from the heart ofthe bun, or the tasty Sausage Egg and Cheese Biscuit. Hey, you may have to make your bed in the morning. but thanks to Burger King, at least you don't have to make your breakfast. 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 

n)Us1 tastes bellet 

www.burgerking.com For a limited time. Price and participation may vary. 
Copyright 1899 Burget King CQrporation. Burger King CQrporation is the exclusive licensee of tho Burger King Bun Halve,; and Crescent Logo and the "It just Inter better'bademark and the registered Burger King badomark. 
Thursday, February 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL APRIL I 5, 2000 
Join together with up to seven of your frien~s to participate in Christmas in April (CIA). 
CIA is a one day working session during which the South Bend community joins forces with the students, faculty, and staff of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross College to renovate and repair the homes of the needy, elderly, and handicapped residents of a South Bend neighborhood. 
SIGN-UPS 
Wednesday, February 23 & Thursday, February 24 11 am-2 pm 
4-8 pm· ONLY AT LAFORTUNE I ST FLOOR ELEVATOR LOBBY 

Limited Spots Available~-:.. ~ 
Questions? Contact Emily Junius at 232-2007 or Juni9846@saintmarys.edu OR Craig Komanecki at 243-9361 or Komanecki.1@nd.edu 
I 
I 
i 
• I 
MEN's-NCAA BASKETBALL 
Miller leads Gators to easy victory over Bulldogs 
Associated Press 
Mike Miller scored 12 of his 25 points during a seven­minute stretch of the second half as No. 'J Florida beat Georgia 90 68 Wednesday night. 
The Gators (21-5, 10-3 Soulheastern Conference) went in front for good at 44-4:{ when Miller converted a three-point play with 14:10 remaining. 
Miller ended his scoring spree with two free throws after Georgia coach Jim Harrick was hit with a technical foul with 
7:07 to play. Miller's free throws stretched the lead to 69­55, coming after Donnell Harvey had completed a three­point play. 
The Gators made the one trip down the floor worth seven points when lidonis Haslem scored moments later as Florida retained possession. 
Anthony Evans led the Bulldogs (10-16, 3-10) with 17 points, D.A. Layne added 16 and Adrian Jones 1S. 
Less than a minute after florida's seven-point trip, Harrick was ejected when another technical was called on the Georgia bench with 6:09 to play. Brett Nelson hit one of the two free throws to make it 76­57. 
Harvey added 13 points and Nelson 10. 
Georgia bolted to an early 8-2 lead before the Gators began chipping away in a first half that saw 10 lead changes before Matt Bonner hit an 18­footer as time expired to draw Florida into a tie at 31. 
Georgia trailed only once in the early part of the second half. with Layne's basket mak­ing it 43-41 before Miller took control and put the Gators in command. 
No.13 Syracuse 91, 
Villanova 63 
Jason Bart had a career-high 14 assists and reserves Preston Shumpert and DeShaun Williams each scored 15 points as No. 13 Syracuse defeated Villanova to snap the Wildcats' three-game winning streak. 
Syracuse (22-3. 11-2 Big Eas·t), which had lost three of its last six games, finally rebound­ed from the funk it had boen in since humbling Connecticut in late January. The Orangemen got 46 points from its reserves in handing Villanova 11 ()-10, b­
7) a loss the Wildcats could ill afford if they hopo to make tlrn NCAA tournamenl. 
Any visions that Villanova, which had won fivo of six, had of extending its Carrier Donrn winning streak to four quickly disappeared behind the Orangemen's determined man defense and hot shooting. Tho Orangemen forced 22 turnovers and had 14 steals. 
Syracuse used a 26-4 run in a nine-minute span early in the game to erase any doubts about the outcome. 
While the Orangemen were hitting 12 of their first 20 shots, the Wildcats sputtered, convert­ing just 3-of-14. Villanova, which entered the game hitting 36 percent of its 3-point shots, was a miserable 1-of-18, miss­ing all nine in the first half. 
Ryan Blackwell, who had 10 points and nine rebounds, began the Syracuse run with two rebound baskets, Shumpert hit a 3-pointer, Etan Thomas converted a three-point play and Williams contributed R pair of 3s to put Syracuse up 32-10 witb 9:42 remaining in the opiming half. 
Hart had eight assists and only one turnover in tho f'irst half to key the Orangcmen's rush to a 46-30 at the break. Ile finislrncl with nine points, three steals and only two turnovers. 
A layup by Brooks Sales got Villanova within 13 points in Lhe first minute of the second hall', but the Orangemm, got a layup from Blackwell, a 3­pointer by Shumpert. a dunk by Thomas off a Hlackwell foed underneath, and a pull-up jumper by Shumpert to boost the lead to 5(,-36 with 17 min­utes left. 
Hicky Wright led Villanova with 1 8 points, Malik Allen had 1:1 and Salos 11. 
No. i5 LSU 64, 
South Carolina 59 

Torris Bright scorr,d 19 points. including the go-ahead basket in a see-saw second half, to rally No. 1 S LSU to victory over South Carolina on Wednesday night. 
Down 45-32 with 12:12 remaining, the Tigers (22-4, 9-4 Southeastern Conference) went on a 12-0 run over the next 
3:07 to close within one point. 
The game seesawed after that, with three ties and two lead changes before a Bright 3­pointer put the Tigers up for good. 
LSU made just 5 of 9 free throws in the final minute, but South Carolina (11-15, 3-10) couldn't capitalize. The Gamecocks scored only two baskets in the final 3:57. 
The win extended the Tigers' SEC win streak to six games, their longest conforence win streak since 1992. It was LSU's second consecutive win against South Carolina aftBr six straight losses. 
Tony Kitchings scored 19 points and Jamel Bradley added 11 for South Carolina. 
.labari Smith and Lamont Roland scored H points for LSU, and Stromile Swift added 11. 
South Carolina opened the second hair with a 20-6 run to take the 13-point lead. Kitchings scored the first six points in the run. 
LSU led 17 -10 when Kitchings and Bradley combined for a 9-0 run, giving the Gamncocks a two-point lead with 7:4;{ in the first half. 

The first half saw two more lead changes before Lamont Roland's jumper gave the Tigers a 26-25 orlgr, going into halftime. 
No. 7 Tennessee 74, 
No.18 Kentucky 67 
Tony Harris sconid 27 points 

a.s No. 7 Tennessee returned to its up-tempo game to beat No. 18 Kentucky Wednesday night and tie a school record with its 22nd win. 
The Volunteers (22-4, 10-3 Southeastern Conference) had won 22 games in a season only twice before, the last in 1984­
85. That season the Vols also lost 15 games. 
But tying the record was the least of the current Vols' wor­ries. 

They were coming off an embarrassing loss to instate rival Vanderbilt, which slowed them down using a zone defense, and they were trying to hold onto at least a share of the lead in the SEC's Eastern Division against a team that has a ·winning recorrl in Knoxville -Kentucky (19-8, 9-4l. 
The Wildcats beat Tennessee 81-68 at Rupp Arena on Feb. 1 and looked ready to sweep the Vols as they scored the first six points . 
Then the Vols, who started the game slowly bringing the floor and running down the clock, switched back to their usual high-paced game. The Vols got themselves going by fastbreaking on one end and pressing all over tlrn court. 
Kentucky led 11-7 when Harris, who had just three points in the loss at VandRrbilt, jump-started the Vols by scor­ing five of the next eight points. Tennessee turned that into a 13-1 run as Kentucky went 6 l/2 minutes without scoring a fielrl goal, and the Vols n1wer trailed again. 
Whenever the Wildcats triAd to set up for a shot, a Tennessee player was there. The Vols forced 16 turnovers, which they turned into 21 points. 
Isiah Victor added 22 points for Tennessee, and C..J. Black had 10. 
Tennessee led 46-30 on a 3 by Harris. The Wildcats, who now lead the series 43-42, didn't quit. 
They pulled within 68-63 with 
1: 11 left on a three-point play by Tayshaun Prince. Vincent Yarbrough blocked a shot by Keith Bogans with 50 seconds left, and the Vols hit seven of eight free throws down the stretch to seal the victory. 
Desmond Allison led Kentucky with 15 points. Jamaal Magloire and Hogans each had 11. 


Thursday, February 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

M. Bball 
continued from page 24 
l'irnd up. Freshman Ivan Kartelo hit a bucket from behind the free-throw line to narrow the sr.oring gap lo eight. 
But ii seemr-d that Wade stepped up every time the Irish began dosing in on the Friars. This time he swished a 17-footcr lo µul Providcnrc ahead by dou­ble-digits once mor!'. 
"C.1\rlainly he dicked into high gear tonight." Providence head coach Tim Welsh said. "I think the whole anma sensed his confi­donce. I just told him lo keep pulling the trigger until you go r.old. and obviously. he never did.'' 
Notre Dame kept up its trade­mark zono dofense, despite its inability to contain Wade. 
"That zone's bn!'n pretty good to us." DohP.rty said. "!Wadel was tlw onlv one who was really shooting th.0, ball wPll from the outside. The thing that was dis­appointing to me was them get­ting into the paint." 
T Im s r. o r in g gap l'I LI c t LI ated bPtwr.Pn sevlln and 1 :-3 for the rc'st of tho half. as Providence headed iulo half-lime loading Notrr Dame. 42-'.B. Murphy's 15 first-half points. coL1plod with Carrolrs nine, kcpt the Irish in the game, but their efforts could not match those of Wade and Maxey. who scored 19 and 12. respectively. 
In the secrrnd half. the Irish droppPd to 11 points down on a 3-pointPr by Friars' Abdul Mills. 
Then they started dimbing back into contention. rreshman Jere Marura made one of two frP.P throws. On a Friars' missed shot. the Irish came down with the rebound. and the next time down the court. freshman Mike Monserez dropped a trey. 
With Providence leading 52-45, the two teams exchanged lay­ups. 
Then Notre Dame kept moving one point closer. Sophomore Harold Swanagan made one of two free throws for the Irish. Mills hit a deuce for Providence, but Notn~ Dame point guard Jimmy Dillon made his first three of the night. 
With Notre Dame trailing just 56-51 with less than 11 minutes to go, the crowd at the Joyce Center rose to its feet. The Cans quickly sat down as the Irish bega.n to self-destruct. By the time the clock sunk to six min­utes rnmaining, Wade had drilled in lhree more treys, and the Irish had fallen behind· 69-52. 
"That can be a dagger in your heart,'' Welsh said. "H's like the pin goes into the balloon and it's deflating.·· 
'.Vlurphy scored six points in the next 2:14. but Wadf' added another three to keep Notre Dame at bay. 
The Irish were forced to foul in an attempt to recover possession, and the rest of the Friars' points all came at the rharity stripe. 
Macura and Graves did their best to score as Murphy strug­gled behind the Friars' defensive pressure. Macura scored six points. two at the free throw line. Graves appeared from nowhere. Scoreless with 1:48 to go. he hit f1ve 3-pointers, but it was too lit­tle, ioo late, as ihe Irish lost their third home game of the season. 
"It's a tough place to come in and win." Welsh said. "The wins have come so far and few between this year. The feeling in the locker room tonight is like we're a team going to the NCAA tournament." 
Notre Dame headed into its match against Providence on a hot streak after wins over two ranked conference teams ­Connecticut and Seton Hall. 
"I don't think it's because we were felling good about our­selves," Doherty said. "It was their night; it wasn't our night. And it results in a 10-point loss at home." 

Take a FREE Test Drive and find outl 
Now is your chance to take a practice test under real test conditions. Experience Kaplan's Test Drive and you'll receive individual feedback on your performance. Don't miss this free opportunity to find out how you would score on the real exam. 
LSAT 11 am
MCAT10am 
Saturday, February 26 University of Notre Dame 
Take the GMAT, GRE, or DAT on-line. 
Or take It onllne from February 15-29 at kaptestdrlve.coml 

.

1·IDO·KAP·TEST 
• . 
kaptest.com 
"TMI namu.,. recpl..ed lradinlarlcs o/ lholl respe,!Neowne!I. 


KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 

Harold Swanagan posts up Providence center Karim Shabazz in Wednesday's Irish loss to the Friars. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used books boughl and sold 
• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service: $2 oo -Appraisals large and small 


OPEN NOON TO SIX TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 1027 E. WAYNE 
SOUTH BEND, IN 46616 (2 19) 232-8444 



NHL 
Stars skate past Red Wings to earn solid victory 

Associated Pres, 
Mike Modano had a goal and an assist in the .third peri­oct·as the Uallas Stars stormed back with four goals for a 5-2 victory over the Detroit Red Wings on Wednesday night. 
Brett Hull, Scott Thornton, Aaron Gavey and Mike Keane also scored for Dallas. 
Vyacheslav Kozlov and Brendan Shanahan scored for Detroit. 
Thornton's fourth goal, on the rebound of Kirk Muller's shot, tied it at 2 just 1 :11 into the third period. 
Fortv-five ser.onds later, Gavey skated in unchecked on the left side, took a pass from Modano and snapped it just inside the post, past goalie Chris Osgood for a 3-2 lead. 
Modano's 27th goal made it 4-2 wilh 6:17 left, and Keane iced it 40 seconds later with his eighth. 
This was the third meeting between Dallas and Detroit. They split the first two, each winning on the other team's ice. 
Shanahan's 33rd goal, a blast from the right circle that handcuffed goalie Ed Belfour, gave Detroit a 2-1 lead at 9:44 of the second period. 
Kozlov scored his 16th goal at 1:15 on the first shot of the game, taking a pass in the left circle from Steve Duchesne and slapping the puck between Belfour's pads. Muller got the puck away from Detroit defenseman Chris Chelios near the Red Wings' blue line to set up Hull's 18th goal. Muller pushed it ahead to Thornton who fed it to Hull skating 
in alone. I 
Hull drew Osgood down; with a fake, then flipped the puck under the cross bar to tie it 1-all with 7 :00 left in the first. 
Each team had other good chances. Kozlov, on a clean shot, hit the post midway through the first period during a 4-on-4 sit­uation. 
Osgood made a good stick save to rob Modano during a Dallas power play late in the period. 
Osgood had to be quick for a stick save on Hull who glided in unchecked with 9:30 left in the sec­ond. 
Maple Leafs 5, 
Coyotes 3 
Darcy Tucker scored his first two goals for Toronto as the Maple Leafs beat Phoenix on Wednesday night, snapping a season­high six-game winless streak. 
Tucker. acquired in Feb. 9 trade with Tampa Bay, gave the Maple Leafs a 3­2 lead with 3:52 left in the second period, diving head first into the crease to poke the puck past goalie Bob Essensa. 
Tucker made it -l-2 with 

8:25 left in the third peri­od. deflecting Brian Berarct·s shot from the point into the top corner Tucker has 16 goals this season. 
Alyn ~cCauley, Jonas Hoglund and Yanic Perreault also scored for Toronto, 0-5-1 during the 
winless streak. Shane Doan, Jeremy Roenick and Teppo Numminen scored for the Coyotes. 
Numrninen scored with 3:14 left in the third to bring Phoenix within a goal, but Perreault countered with an empty-net goal with 53 sec­onds remaining. 
Toronto's Curtis Joseph made 22 saves for his 26th victory. 
Predators 4, Blackhawks 2 
Dave Legwand and Drake Berehowski scored goals 52 seconds apart early in the third period as the Nashville Predators beat the Chicago Hlackhawks on Wednesday night. 
Sebastien Bordeleau and Tom Fitzgerald also had third-period goals for the Predators, who won their sec­ond straight after losing six in a row. Alex Zhamnov and Doug Gilmour scored for Chicago, which has lost two straight and is 1-5 in its last six. Chicago star Tony Amonte's goal streak was snapped at six games. 
Legwand opened the scori_ng with a power-play goal 28 seconds into the third. After Nashville's Patric Kjellberg lost the puck in the slot, Legwand slid it under goalie Steve Passmore from 10 feet. 
Berehowski made it 2-0 at 1:20, taking Scott Walker's pass from behind the net and one-timing a close-range shot past Passmore. 
Zhamnov cut it to 2-1 with 
9:15 left in the period with a 
power-play goal.  He  beat  
goalie Mike  Dunham  on  a  
screened shot.  




Take a FREE Ted Drive and find outl 
Now is your chance to take a practice test under real test conditions. Experience Kaplan's Test Drive and you'll receive individual feedback on your performance. Don't miss this free opportunity to find out how you would score on the real exam. 
MCAT 10am 
Saturday, February 26 University of Notre Dame 
Take the GMAT, GRE, or DAT on-line. 
Or take It onllne from February 15-29 at kaptestdrlve.coml 
• 

, 
.
1-800-KAP-TEST kaptest.com 

"'­
AmericanHeart a-a 
Association.V 
,tptir.9 Ha-1 DI..... Uld Strokll 
Choose 
ealthful 
Foods 
The Notre Dame French Club is proud to present the third movie ofthe French Film Festival 2000: 
Three Colors:
A Blue A 
(Trois Couleurs: Bleu) 
Sunday, February 27, 2000 
2:00pm 
Snite Movie Theatre 
ADMISSION IS FREE! 
Discussion, with food, after movie in OSHAG! 
Sponsored by: Le Cercle Fran~ais, Student Government, SUB, the Department ofRomance Languages, and the Nanovic Institute 
Thursday, February 24, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

beam.1@nd.edu 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
TltROIJG.I\ ~IST~TE\1sum WE'1£T, '-'Ti: WILi. Pe~~€.-~\.L. \lie W!lL It.!,'€~ ~ tlN,' M.\:,.,..,~'t' Of' e.V£Nt~ "i'l-\1'1"1' r,,L~\P \~O '(OIi~ ¾at>. ~~v.; ilW':.fl!l,~T) \ol.t~E f~oto. 1"1U,T t')1NT OW, v.lE ow il\E \lt'TI' n..ooR ,J1T 
WI\.L \',-. ...'eJ~i\I:: Of' ~U.'bJ(( SC ENE$ Fl!O,._ 1' ~-CoUT~ i"OV~"l"S J.WO ~l"\oiloNS. ,; 
Fox TROT 
TOM KEELEY 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
O\J f,\U$"1" fl~

~.... LOIJ(, ~$ '(OU~E GlVI 
t'>,le_ ME.tJ\O~I"-":> J:'.1/f.. IJE.'IIE. t(.E lNTO I\C.C.0 1-1'-0, 1-\0W AeouT ~OING 11.,-m£ ~ {\ 'FE.Iv OF /'4.'e. WITH ~N 'El\!.. OF 11...'N 
,-,---. _r 

t,.,-1Rl'l.(...,1\JE fEMf\LC: u,c.,wt wo \/El.'( ~lffE 
BILL AMEND 
0 200Q BIi i\m8rtdltJtSt.b~ lMMnlll Pr~Syodicahl 

www .~omot.com 
YOU WERE
I'M NOT A G,IRL! I'M NOT
IT'S PART oF 

LOOI<! Looi(! SAY1N<:r?.••
A ~IRL! I'M NOT! l'MWHY YoUR TRA.INlN(:,, 
t-loRDSTRoM'S I

NOT! I'M NOT! I'M MoT!
ARE WE MOW THAT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Broadway great 59 Perennial name Jerry on best-seller
1 It's south of lists
Georgia 33 Line providers 63 Got down 
5 They may be 35 Crack run off base 36 California-based 64 Four of a kind 10 A.L. or N.L. city 
horticulturist 65 Energetic 41 Flipper 66 Double or twin
13 Role in "The Coronation of 42 Powdered 67 Saloon lights Poppea" 
43 Away from the 68 Engendered 14 Traffic directors mouth 
16 Crew member 47 Fighter's weak DOWN spot
17 Silver-haired 1 Marching comic 51 Express together discontent
19 White 2 Skin cream alternative 52 Sun spot? ingredient 
20 Industry leader 53 School founded 3 Products of byThos. glaciation
21 Postage Jefferson 4 PBS classic 23 Wind dir. 
54 Get ready for 5 Predicament 24 Foolhardy Judgment Day 
6 Pitcher's stat 28 Monte 56 Kind of tube 
7 Be off base 30 Hodgepodge 58 Cal. opener 
8 Batches of stakes ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Reset 
1 O Army medic Puzzle by A. J. Santora

ABS 

11 Needle holder? 37 Sealed 50 Mars, for one 60 An athlete might tum this
12 Temper 38 Some TV's 
55 Head, to Henri -,-+,,.,+,.,+:-+:-+:::-t 15 Catch 39 Words before 57 1940's Soviet 61 Solo in space "show'' or "class"18 Add value to secret police 
22 Russian orbiter 40 Zappers' targets org. 62 Comic Wynn 
25 Entr'_ 41 A long way 
58 Punch and others 26 Shy 44 Go fast 
-:-:+-:-+:-:+:+.::-1 27 Silo contents 45 " -,-, of robins Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
29Wed 

are available by touch-tone phone:31 Rat-a-_ 46 In fast time? 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). ---+--+--+-.,..+,,,.,i 34 Roman dictator, 48 Word ending Annual subscriptions are available for the 82-79 B.C. today's theme best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 36 Free 49 Get even for years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
TIIURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2000 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TiilS your mate is your best bet. 00 
DAY: Paul Jones, Helen Shaver, VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): YoUI Paula Zahn, Jenny O'Hara, Barry time and energy must be put into Bostwick, Abe Vigoda, Edward work-related matters. This will not James Olmos be the day to get involved in invest­'Happy Birthday: You will be ments orgroup endeavors. 0000 highly entertaining this year. Your LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your business savvy will bring you offers emotions will be hit from all sides. you just can't refuse. You will have a You may be looking through rose­huge interest in learning all sorts of colored glasses concerning your rela­new things that will help you get tionship. Don't make rasft decisions. 
ahead and stay ahead. This looks like Keep your eyes open. 000 an exciting and productive year as SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): long as you don't let anyone rain on Secret matters should be tended to your parade. Your numbers: l, 15, 17, today. You must not neglect your23,26,47 
financial obligations. Your lover may
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Diffi­give you a hard time if you seem to culties with business or personal be unraveling. 000 relationships are likely. You will be SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. involved in deceptive circumstances 21): Involvement with groups and and may find that situations aren't as organizations will be conducive to they appear. 000 romantic interludes. Your contribu­
TAURUS (April 20-May 20.: Do tion to events will be well-received your work quietly. Deception, empty and enhance your reputation. 000 promises and a lack of support will CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): upset you if you rely on others for Deception involving co-workers is help. Travel will be confusing. 000 apparent. You will have an unreal 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do view of your position and your rela­
not get involved in dubious get-rich­tionships. Try to think before you act. quick schemes. You are likely to 0000 make poor purchases if you are con­AQUARIUS Oan. 20-Feb. 18): If sidering luxury items. 000 you decide to travel, make sure 
CANCER (June 21-July 22.): YoUI someone else does the driving. You 
home environment will be subject to will be confused about your legal changes. Someone on your domestic rights and yoUI professional position. scene will be unpredictable. You may 00 have problems with gas, oil or water; PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
double-check to make sure every­Deception is likely if you get in­thing is safe. 00000 volved in joint money matters. 1his 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Deception is not the best time to give too freely concerning friends or relatives will of yourself or your cash to others. cause friction between you and your 00000 lover. Open communication with 
Birthday Baby: You'll be loyal, stubborn and determined throughout your life. ~ou have a heart of gold and will do whatever you can to hefp the ones you Jove. You are a dedicated individual who will never back down from anything or anyone. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) e 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
~-----------------------~------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and S_aint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and: mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 

City _______ State ____ Zip______ 


Super Stars 
Dallas goalie Ed Beffour made 29 saves a.c; the Stars defeated the Red Wings, 5-2. 
page 22

PORTS 
page 24 OBSERVER Thursday, February 24, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Providence knocks out Notre Dame 
.... 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Providence's junior college transfer Donta Wade shot the lights out Wr.dnesday, break­ing Big East records for 3-point goals Providence89 
made and Notre0ame79 attempted. In tbc process. he burst a hole through Notre Damp's hopes of qualifying for the NCAA tournament. 
Wade knocked down 10 3­poin ters on the way to scoring a career-high 38 points. He nearly single-handedly defeated the Irish. as the Friars (10-16. 3-10 Big East) upset the Irish 89-79. 
"We didn't expect Wade to shoot the ball so well," Notre Dame ht>ad coach Matt Doherty said. "One of the things they've struggled with this year is shooting. He cer­tainly didn't struggle tonight." 
Wade. who only averages 
6.8 points per game. started the Friars off in scoring with a soft-touch 3-pointer. Within the first seven minutes of play, he added 11 more points to put the Friars ahead. 20-5. 
"Very rarely do you see a guy like Wade come out and shoot the way he did tonight with 10 3-pointers," Notre Dame sophomore Troy Murphy said. 
After hitting bottom at 15 points behind. the Irish began working their way back into the contest. 
Friars' forward Erron Maxey fouled Murphy. who nailed two free throws. Irish freshman Matt Carroll aced in a 3-pointer to get the crowd 
see M. BBALL/page 21 
BASEBALL 

Irish sluggers open season in Tennessee 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Spam Writer 

After months of being limit­ed to the batting cages in their new indoor facility and the turf-covered football field of Loftus, the No 23-ranked Irish baseball team finally gets a chance to step onto a sun­drcnched. grass-covered field this weekend as they compete in the Service Academies Classic in Millington. Tenn. 
The six­team tour­nament includes A r m y , Navy. and Air Force as well as Ohio State and Memphis. 
Action begins Thursday afternoon as Notre 


Dame takes on Air Force. Notre Dame has won all five of the previous meetings between the two teams. An interesting subplot to this afternoon's game involves Irish head coach Paul Mainierl, who formprly was the head coach at Air Force. "The Air Force Academy game is kind of a neat oppor­tunity for me personally. because I coached at the Air 
Forr.e Academy for six years," 
said Mainieri. "We're going against a team that I know very well, and I know how the service academies play." 
Starting on the mound for the Irish today is Senior Scott Cavey. coming ofl' of an impressive season in which he posted a 6-1 record and 3.70 ERA. Cavev's best asset is his control; hi has averaged only 
1.8 walks per nine innings in 
see BASEBALL/pagel4 
No rest for 
walk-on 
Thomas 
Don't tell Charles Thomas that you're busy. unappredat­ed or tired. 
Nnxt timr, you feel busy at 2 
a.m.. look into the third-tloor window closest to South Dining !Jal! on thr, east side of O'Neill !lall. 
Chances are you'll see thr. light. Look again at 7 in the morning. 
The light will proba­bly remain. 
Next time you fer,! tirrd. try balancing the demands of a grueling academic schedule and attempts at simulating the defense of Big East superstars Shaheen Holloway, Khalid El­/\min and Jason Hart. 
Next time you feel unappre­ciated, try working harder than many of your teammates. running the same drills. sacri­lking the same social activities in hopes of seeing a mere minute of playing time in an already decided game. 
This is the life of Charles Thomas. a second-vear walk­on to the Irish men"-s basket­ball team. It's a Hfe that he's lived for more than just the two years he's poured his sweat onto the Joyce Center 11oor. 
It's a lirr that's stretched back to his younger days, growing up in Flint. Mich. Ilaving famous friends around tends to deflect some of the limelight. 
Ile played his summer ball with the famous "Flintstones" Mateen Cleaves. Morris Peterson, Charlie Bell and Jason Hkhardson, always finding himself somewhat under-appreciated. 
"In high school. I didn't get much recognition," he said. "People didn't really know my name. They just knew me as 'that kid from Powers Catholic."' 
Being a walk-on on a team with stars Troy Murphy and David Graves hasn't helpPd him emerge from the shadows either. 
Living a namPless basketball existence doesn't bother Thomas though. He plays not for fame nor recognition but 


see CHORNEY/page 14 

• Baseball at North Carolina 
at Loyola Tournament at Miami
~·1 M 
vs. Air Force 1.,::::::~' Saturday, noon Saturday, 8 a.m. Saturday, 7 p.m. 
SPORTS t
at Millington, Tenn. 
ATA Today, 3:30 p.m. 
vs, Purdue 
at Connecticut vs. Penn Scace
Sofrball 
~.'f~/

rtf'1 
Saturday, noon 
Saturday, noon Sunday, l p.m.
...., at Arkansas Tournament ~
GLANCE S4t 
Friday -Sunday 






