. ------~----­

Pearl jamming 
Home repairs 
The origonal boys ofSeattle sound returned to 

Tuesday
Notre Dame pledged an annual $1.50.000 to the 
the road this summer to promote their new 
Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization 
album "Binaural." 
Organization to revamp the area. 
AUGUST 29, 
Scene . page 12 
News . page 3 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 6 CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 



Members approve new structure 
Bv HELENA PAYNE 
a~d ERIN LaRUFFA 
Assiswu News Editors 
Slud(\nt body prcside.nt Brian O'Donoghun r:hallPngc. d the Campus l.ife Council (CLC) Monday to rnbuild u ..viable and worthwhile'' rnurwil with a nmv structurr.. 
"This is one of tlw strongest voic­,1s for llrn students if wn use it effcctivPly," said ()'Donoghue. who also rhairs the cu:. "We can come togptlwr and rise above mediocrity ... ConsidPr it a challenge." 
Tho council voted unanimously to close its current session. which had been running for 23 years. Therefore, existing standing com­mittcws -small groups of council members dedir,ated to specific isstws such as alcohol -were dis­solved. 
Tlw new formation would add an executive r,ommitt,w to determine meetings and approve new task !'orces. Tlrn purpose of the task forecs would be to take a more in­depth look into campus life issues affecting stmltmts. Once the issue is brought before the council. its task force would be dissolved. 
Although the details of the exact structure arc not definite, task force members received the con­cept ol' dcv(!loping task forces posi­tively. 
"Task forms are effective," said Saint Edward's rec:lor Fatlrnr Dave Srl1PidlPr. "They're so wcll-direct­nd. pinpointed by the council." 
Tho council brainstormed possi­ble topics task forces could study. SPvcral topics focused on drinking. including underage, off-campus and binge drinking. Other ideas involved lifn within residPnce 'halls. 

including differences between male and female residence halls and the need for more 24-hour space, in addition to causes for so many stu­dents moving off campus. Other possible topics include sexual assault resources, discrimination, the honor code and the role of the Student Union Board. 
Bill Kirk supported the task force idea but warned that the CLC should maintain a clear focus on issues pertaining to student affairs. lie also said that the Office of Student Affairs does listen to CLC resolutions -no matter how small an issue may seem. 
"When this bodv sits authorita­tively on issues, it gets heard," Kirk said. 
Taskf orce groups will begin forming this week. 
Other issues the Council addressed included the role of fac­ulty on the Council and ways to get more student input when deciding what topics the Council should address. 

Students: WRC sets functional agenda 
duties of the WRC. By MYRA McGRIFF "All the goals were put hack on the table," sc1id News 'Writer Maureen Capilla, also a senior at Saint Mary's and a 
USAS member. "The WRC will provide the involved In one of the first steps necessary to function as a schools with information on the condition of factories sweatshop monitor, the Worker's Rights Consortium making college apparel.'' 
(WBC) set up its governing board and approved its constitution over the summer. 
At the end of the WRC's first meet­ing in April they laid a foundation for the future of thoir non-profit organization, but a proposal detail­ing the specific function of the outfit slill needed to be drafted. 
"The WHC no longer exists ljustl on paper," said Katie Poynter, a Saint Marv's senior and also a mem­ber of tht-; United Students Against Sweatshops (USAS). "It has a bud­get. lt has a hoard. It is a function­ing non-profit organization." 
"The WRC no longer exists /just] on paper. It has a budget. It has a board. It is afunctioning non-profit organization." 
Katie Poynter member, United Students Against Sweatshops 
The WRC will act as monitor. work­ing with corporations and some 55 colleges and universities, to look into the treatment of the people working in factories around the world. Questions still remain, however, as to how the WRC will set up its monitor­ing system. 
"The WRC hopes to meet in October and hire an executive director whose job will be to basicaUy run the orga­nization," Capillo said. 
The WRC has alreadv started set­ting up communication·and outreach with factories in El Salvador and 
other South American countries. The WRC also hopes 
In July, two months after the first meeting, the to meet with apparel-producing corporations during mcmbnrs of the WHC sat down to come up with a con­stitution, a govnrning hoard, as well as outline the see W'RC/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Professor, author dies at 74 
Special to The Observer 

James Carberry, 74, professor emeritus of Notre Dame, passed away during his sleep in.his home on August 27 following a brief illness. 
Carberry was born in Brooklyn, NY on Sept. 
13. 1925, and graduated 
from Brooklyn Technical High School. following his service in the Navy from 1944-1946, Carberry attended Notre Dame and received a bahelors in sci­ence in 1950 and an mas­ters in 1951 in chemical engineering. While an 


undergraduate, he devel-Carberry oped a devotion to Italian opera and participated in football, classical 
music and the humanities. 
Carberry received his PhD in fluid dynamics at Yale in 1957. While at Yale, he was received into the Third Order of St. Dominic. Carberry joined the faculty at Notre Dame in 1961 as an assistant professor. For more than 20 years, he coached intramural football at the University. 
In 1964, Carberry conceived and developed the "swirling and catalytic reactor" known as the "Carberry Reactor." He was a National Science Foundation Senior Fellow at Cambridge University from 1965 to 1966. In l 968 he received the Yale Engineering Association Award for Advancement of Pure and Applied Science, and in 1974 he was named Hays­Fulbright Senior Scholar at the University of Rome. 
In 1972, he co-founded the U.S.-Soviet Working Committee on Catalysis following the bilateral agreement regarding the exchange of purely scientific information. A recipient in 1976 of the R. H. Wilhelm Award in Chemical Reaction Engineering, he was named Sir Winston Churchill Fellow and Richard K. Mellon Fellow at Churchill College. Cambridge University in 1979 and again Churchill Fellow in 1982. 
Carberry was made a Fellow of the American Institute of Chemists in 1986 and in 1987 a Visiting and then Life Fellow at Clare Hall, Cambridge University. In 1988 he was recipient of the first Autoclave Engineers' Award. During 1991 he was visiting professor & fellow at Cambridge University. 
Author of the text "Chemical and Catalytic Reaction Engineering" which has been pub­lished worldwide and former co-editor of "Catalysis Reviews -Science and Engineering" he published more than 120 technical papers. ln 1996 Carberry was made an Honorary Alumnus of Princeton University: In 199:-3 Carberry was elected to the National Academy of Engineering. 
Carberry is survived by his daughter, Alison Carberry Kiene, Hockford, Ill.; his grandsons, Damian and Nicholas Kiene; sisters Jeanne Carberry Brady, Hyde Park, NY and Alice Romanelli. Huntington. NY; five nieces and nephews and 13 groat nieces and nephews. Predeceasing Carberry were his wife, Margaret . Hruggner Carberrin in 1994: his daughter. Maura O'Mallcy Carberry on Jan. 1, 2000 and his uncle, John .Joseph Cardinal Carberry, for­mer Archbishop of St. Louis in 1998. 
Visitation will be from 6:30 to 9 p.m. today at the Basilica of t.hc Sacred Heart. The funeral mass will be at 9:30 a.m. on Wednesday, August 30 at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
In Lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Hospice of St. Joseph's County, 111 Sunnybrook Court, South Bend, IN 46637. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, August 29, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

'Cosby' conflict 
lfomomb(~r lhA Iluxtablcs -Cliff, Clam and thP­live kids? 
Through eight seasons. "The Cosby Show" pro­vidrd a Thursday night esr.ape from the some­limes r.rnzy and chaotic 1980s. And for so many. the show was mur:h moro 
than a sitcom. morn than fir.­lion. Th11 Iluxtables were an1twnl. prindplnd individu­,tls, many to a.spin, to be:. 
I was always a ran. My mom, though, w,1.s morn skPptical. She uft1,n a'iked, "Who an• these folks. and what arn lhey supposed to 

mean to blar:k people?" Of Jason McFarley 
course, to an 8-year-old such 
an abstract question means 
littlf'; but now. Mom's words 
am a sourcn of conflict. Copy Editor 
I'm torn, you see, between ('.hildlmod loyalty to a oncn immensdy popular cultural symbol and my growing cynicL,;;m of the world around mn. lfogardless of how long it took me to realiZt! il. I'm ct>rtain that Mom's suspicions of "Cosbv" an• founded and that the show has unmi;lakablc racial implications. 
I'm just not certain yet a.<; to what that moans. 
On tlrn one hand. I tune into episodes in syndica­tion and I s1-ie an African-American family that ,·mmt1>rs the more prc>val<'nt racist sten~otypc>s of bl,Lck communities. Isec blacks portrayod as thoughtful human beings rathor than ridiculous rnrir.aturns. That fact is. in itself'. an achifwmnent. 
But il doesn't end there. How can I find fault with a program that ser.ms a celebration of black hr.ritagn'? Thr. Iluxtablc childrnn attend blar.k col­lcgns and complete assignments on black herot~s. for r.xamplc. Significant intervals in black history, such as the Civil Highl'> movement and the assassi­nation of Marlin Luther King. also have been introdun1d into the narrative at various poinL'>. 
On tlw other hand. the show's shortcomings may be just as noteworthy. Let's be clear hnrc. As a t0.lrvision sitrnm, "Cosby" is bound to have Wf!aknr.sses and to sometimes deviate from the .,oursc of cvnnl'i that characterize real life. Still, critics -rsp!•cially thosr. concerrn~d with the show's d0.piction of racial imag1is -may have strong cause to blast "Cosby." 
For mm thing, lhe writ,ws of'thn show ignorn the fact combating racism wm; -is -a fact of life for Afriran Americans at Pvery and all economic strata. 
Try to rnmemb,\r a time when the 1-luxtables exprnssnd any opinions on social issues. race in particular. Is it dillicult? Because the show bla­tantly skirted the issue of racism. Likewise, it didn't tnach black America how to deal cffoc.tively with issues of race and da'is. 
IL's not good nnough that the show was a relief from the negative nwdia stereotyping of blacks. We should bP cir.lighted that a show portrayr.d African Anrnricans as intelligent, sensitive and successful: but the probh"m with that is that it acer.pl-; the m,sumption that. on TV, a positive imag,i is a prosperous image. 
As both an old fan and a new skPptic of 'The Cosby Show," I'm left with two choir.es. One, I could bP a conspirator in an image system that m1L~ked dm~p racial divisions in this country. Or, two. I rnn buy inl1i the fiction that blar.ks every­where havn made it. then)by accepting "Cosby" as a legitimitlP portrayal ol' ordinary Afrir.an­American life. 
In this plt:ntif'ul. diverse "real world" that I will soon enter. to end up with such a choir:e is an injustice not just to blacks, but to all viewnrs. 
The 1•iews expressed in the Inside Column nre those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obser/Jer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maureen Srnitlie Sarn Derheimer Kare Nagengast Chris Scott Tim Logan Graphics 
Sports 
Jose Cuellar Molly McVoy Dana Mangnuson Viewpoint Production I.ih Haughey Kerry Smith Lab Tech Li.: Lang 
Tlic Ob,trvrr (USl'.'i i'l'I 2-•iOOO) is puhlishcd Mond;iy dirou~h Friday C')C.C..'rpt d1uin~ tx,101 frnt.i v,,r.trion p("notls. The Observer ii ,1 mC'tnl>~r ofrhe As."i<ll:i,Uc:<.t Press. All rc-pmducnurt rl~hts ,ne reserved. 

THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Art: Northern Indiana  . Music: Front Porch  . Hobbies: 2000 G,im and  . Pet Adoption: Adopt a  
Cfinter for Ilistory hosts  Music: Featuring Open  Mineral Show and Sale. 2  Homeless Dog or Puppy:  
"Lost Landmarks II." pho­ Stage wi.th Chad Clifford: 8  to 7 p.m. at Century Center.  12 lo 4 p.m.. at 1902 E.  
tos of South Bond and  p.m. 404 Lincolnway.  . Dance: Weekly Singles  Ireland Hoad.  
Mishawaka buildings, on  . Art: Lorentz Art Gallery:  Dance: 8 p.m. at Elks Club.  . Theater: "Fiddler on the  
P-xhibit. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.  "Summer 2000 Group  Hoof," 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. at  
Tuesdays through  Exhibit" 11 a.m.-3 p.m.  Hound Barn Theatre.  
Saturdays.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Professor, student die in U. Arkansas shooting 
FAYETTEVILLE. Ark. "Nothing could astonish me both he and l'irst lady llillary A longtime professor and a grad­Rodham Clinton taught law in the
more. I'm without words,
uate student who had been taking mid-1970s. classes for 10 years were shot to without any kind ofguess." "Today's shooting strikfls a par­death Monday at the University of ticularly sad chord f'or Hillary and Arkansas in an apparent murder­me, who both had the privilege of'
Dick Bennett
suir.ide on the first day of the fall tAaching at this wonderful institu­
professor, University of Arkansas
semester, authorities said. tion," Clinton said in a statement. 
Associate professor John Locke. Dick Bennett, who had worked 
67. died in his English department Brad Bruns said. Less than five across the hall from Locke for 20 office in office building near the minutes later, another shot rang years, described him as a "very heart of the campus. out. Officers found tlrn two men mild-tempered man" who had rep­
"I heard one gunshot followed by dead inside. utation for helping his graduate a young man's voice saying. 'No. I Bruns identified the other victim students through the program. didn't do anything,"' said Bethany as a graduate student in the com­"Nothing could astonish mn Edstrom, a graduate student who parative literature program. the more," he said. ''I'm without words. was in a nearby office. "Then I classes Locke taught. Ile said polici' without any kind of' gunss." heard a second shot." didn't know of a motive f'or the Students and faculty worn nvar:u­
Officers responding to several shootings or who pulled the trigger. atnd f'rom the building af'tor the 911 calls. from the building said President Clinton said Monday shooting. and scwcral classes there they spoke briefly with a man that he was saddened to learn ol' and in an adjacent building w11re behind the locked oflkR door, Capt. the killings at the school whern cancelnd. 
UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO 
One arrest, vehicles damaged in melee 
BOUWER, Colo. 

Boulder police used tear-gas to disperse an estimated 700 University of Colorado studenl'i who attended a blor.k party early Sunday morning. One man was arrested and several private vehicles and police cars were vandalized by rioting students at an estimated cost of $5,000 to $7,000. Ilundreds of uninvited partiers converged on a block party to drink beer. starting a bonfire that spit arch­ing flames and smoldering debris 20 to 30 feet high over the street. Partiers fueled the fire with a mattress, chairs, building supplies and nearby trash. A fire crew was dis­patched, but could not gain safe access to the bonfire, rr.sulting in the eventual us<' of tear-gas by police, Jennifer Bray, a spokeswoman for the r.ity of Boulder. said. Some 70 police. many dressed in riot gear, issued a dispersal order to partiers an estimated 45 minutes before !iring tear gas. Bray said. Police made one arrest during the action -Zino Carr, 23. Carr has been charged with obstructing a polir:c officer and resisting arrest, both mis­demeanors. Carr will be arraigned this week. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 

Committees research bonfire safety 
COLLEGE STATJON. TPxas 
Last June, Texas A&M University Presidnnl Dr. Hay M. Bowen changed A&M's 90-year-old tradition when he put their Bonfire on hiatus until at least 2002 and ordPred significant changes to the building process. including greater University supervision and a profossionally cmgi­neered design. "Bowen rcr.civPd thousands of e-mails and letters with opinions about what should happnn lo Bonfire," said Dr. J. Malon Southerland, vicn president of Student Affairs. "We tried to respond to most of' them."Since then, three committees have bncn f'ormed ­one to honor those killed and injurnd in the 1999 Aggin Bonfire collapse\ one to plan an· cwenl for this year and one to suggest a permanent Bonfire structure. Southerland said that any off-campus bonfirn would not be supported by the University, and students participat­ing may face punishment if they attmnpt an off-campus bonfire. The Bonfirn planning committee, a commitlPc of' the Faculty Senate. stressed the need for reform of' Bonfire al an open forum of last spring. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWc::nher *forecasr fOr d;n,rime conditions and hi.1:!11 renrncr:mires 
H L Tuesday Q, 78 61 Wednesday ~ 78 69 Thursday ~ 85 64 Friday ~-77 62 
O 2000 AecuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pr,11ur,· 
® © D D . D D D

Saturday Q, 78 62 
High LOW Show~r• Aain T-atorms Flurries Snow leo Sunny P1. Cloudy Cloudy \.tA Assoi:,to/,d Pf9U 
Atlanta 69 72 Las Vegas 89 74 Portland 77 57 Ballimore 77 66 Memphis 99 78 Sacramento 93 59

Q,Q,~cQQQ (f ~ u 
Boslon 73 62 Milwaukee 77 60 St. Louis 91 71
$/lowers T•storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 80 62 New York 78 66 Tampa 88 74
Via Associated Pras!J GrnphicsNet 
Houston 96 75 Philadelphia 79 67 Wash DC 77 69 

Tuesday, August 29, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


NDSPD offers student bike registration 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
Ttw Notrn Dame Security Police Dnpartment will be regis­tPring hikes today, Aug. 29, and Thursday. Aug. :n, outside of 
North Dining I !all from 7 to 9 a.m., South Dining llall from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and LaFortune Stud<111t Cl•ntnr from 4 to 7 p.m. 
The regis­tration process is 
f'niP, and involves l'illing nut a form with tlw student's name and contact information. in addi­tion to tlw bikp's snrial number. A stirknr is placed on the bike. which alerts campus police of tho bike's rngistration. If the bike is found abandoned on campus. or campus police believe the bike is stolen, the 
"Our goal is to get every­thing registered. It's free. There's no reason not to [register your bike]." 
Phillip Johnson assistant director of security 

information on the registration form allows them to return the bike to its rightful owner. 
"Our goal is to get everything registered. It's free. There's no reason not to Iregister your bike I," said Phillip Johnson. assistant director of security. 
Arizona. They found a bike with a Notre Dame decal on it [and wanted to find the bike's owner]." Johnson said. 
Students who cannot attend the regisfration sessions this week may still register their bike by going to the Security office or by speaking with a member of the bike unit who will be on patrol. 
The sticker also helps identify the bike in oiher police jurisdic­tions, whether in South Bond or across the country. 
"We got a cal I f'rom the police in 


Notre Dame aims to revamp area 
By LYNN OLSZOWY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame is taking active measures to help improve South Bend's northeast side. 
The University is one of several founding members of the newly-formed Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Organization (NNRO). The non-profit organization is geared toward revamping seven squarn miles south of Notre Dame's campus. 
The NNRO has already secured $1.75 million from its partners to be allocated over the next fivP. years. 
The total includes $150,000 each vear from Notre Dame; $75,000 from the city of South Bend; $50,000 from both Memorial Hospital and Saint Joseph's Regional Medical Center and $25,000 from Madison Center and Hospital. 
According to Lou Nanni, executive assistant to Notre Dame president, Father Edward A. Malloy, the NNRO has several main objectives. 
First. the group wants to make the northeast side clean. attractive, and safe. 
"We want to create a little green space between the wealth of the University and the neighborhood." stated 
..

vvrt 

NannL the project is vested in the 
The NNRO also aims to nearly 800 students living off establish an economically campus in South Bend's and ethnically diverse neigh­northeast side. University borhood. Other goals include officials were concerned with attracting commercial devel­rising crime and violence opers, con-rates near structing the Notre new housing. Dame and
"I think it's great that t;he
increasing Lafayette owner occu­University is taking steps apartment 
pancy ancl to make the neighbor­complexes. 
improving Rather
hood safer, especially for
educational than wait opportuni­Notre Dame students." for an inci­ties. dent of N a n n i provoca­
Jeanette McKenna
stressed that tion, Notre 
senior
the NNRO is Dame and 
a collabora­tive initiative between the University and the community. 
"The University is one key player among many," he said. 
Half of the organization's 14 board members are South Bend residents. The other half consists of delegates from the funding partners. 
Carolyn Woo, dean of the Mendoza College of Business. will join Nanni in represent­ing Notre Dame. 
"I am very excited to be a part of the vision to create an engaging, fun, and aestheti­cally-enhanced neighbor­hood," said Woo. 
Notre Dame's interest in the com­
munity are taking a ·proactive approach to renovating the area. a decision many students appreciate. 
"I think it's great that the University is taking steps to make the neighborhood safer, especially for Notre Dame students," said senior Jeanette McKenna. 
The NNRO will hold a press conference Thursdav to announce its latest dev·elop­ments. Although Nanni would not disclose any specific plans, he made mention that the NNRO is currently per­forming a search for a chief executive officer to run the organization. 
page 4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, August 29, 2000 
WRC 

continued from page l 
the next year lo outline the organi­zation's position and appeal for ccloperation. To monitor the condi­tion of' factories the WHC must know where the factories arc located. To this ond. the WHC hopns that meeting wilh thP corpo­rations will encourago them to be willingly involved in improving the condilions of their factories. 
Snmn campus slorns arc taking tlrn initiativn and r<'qunsting infor­m a lion from companies on the condition of factori1!s producing their aµµarcl. 
"! will personally rnqutist from all clothing vendors that mako clothes baring the Sai.nt Mary's namn a mission statt•,rn~nt on how tlwy am protecting workc rs human rights," said Sandy VandnrwPrvon. managPr or the Saint Mary's Bookstorn. 
llowev11r. some collpg1!s are not jumping on the WllC bandwagon as fast us otlrnr schools. 
"Some administrators havn lo be dragg11d kicking and scrnaming to t.tw table lwc;ws,i ot" the proU•st on their campus," Capillo said. 
Ultimatoly tlw dHcision to pull l'rom l'actor.ies the WHC deems to have inhuman conditions rests with nach university administra­tion involved in the WHC. 
With tlrn WHC's constitution, new governing board, and soon-to-be new executive director, the non­profit organization begins a long process to mend what many see a global problem: the inhuman trnat­ment of factory workers. 
"No one thinks this will happen ovnr night. It's a large problem that is going to tako a long time to fix and wn need to be in it for the long haul," said Poynter. 
RUSSIA 





Moscow's citizens live without television 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW 
For residents of a city that has seen two coup attempts in the last decade and a recent string of deadly bombings, television screens suddenly going blank was an ominous sign. 
So when Muscovites found out the causo was a fire in the capital's tdcvision tower, their first reaction was relief. Hut soon, shock and despair sel in as all televi­sion channels except on(l rnmained dead from the blaze, which gutted the towPr and killed two people 
before  being  put  out  
Monday.  
"My  first  thought  was  

about another bombing or some kind of' a military coup, and when I heard it was a fire I felt better,·· said Yuri Kozlov, who was watching television in his apartment when the giant tower caught fire Sunday. 
"Some lime later. I had a weird feeling, as if we sud­denly became isolated from the rest of the world." the 31-year-old businessman said. 
Only once in the past have Russian television channels had to stop their broadcasts, when hard-liners trying to overthrow President Boris Yeltsin's government attacked the Ostankino tele­v1s1on center in October "Many of them haven't yet 1993. Regular broadcasts had time to realize how seri­resumed within hours. ous the problem is, and they 
This time. the government are going to feel the impact said it would take days to latm." resume at least some broad­For the younger genera­casts -and up to several tion, television has long months to restore the air­become the main source of waves l'ully. information, and Hrny will 
For many Russians, who also be seriously hurt by the have becomo increasingly blackout. Lcvada and other dependent on television for pollsters said. both infor-" T h e mation and country is leisure, the "For these people, the deaf." said 
continuous television blackout Grigory blackout Sokolov,
will be a serious
will mean a an unem­s h a r p psychological blow. .. p Io y c d r.hange. recent col­
"For me legn grad­
Yuri Lvada
it was the u a t e ,
head of VTslOM
only pl!rn­sure I could afford, and 1 don't know how I will live without it for so long," said Tamara Voronina. a 69­ycar-old pensioner coming out of a food store in central Moscow. 
Soap operas, mostly for­eign-made, have become increasingly popular in Hussia, attracting at least 20 percent of the television audience, according to poll­sters. 
"For these people, the tele­vision blackout will be a seri­ous psychological blow," said Yuri Levada, the head of VTslOM, Russia's premier independent polling agency. 

watching 
firelighters 
fight the blaze Monday. "It's not about the soap operas. I'm worried about what's happening in our country." 
Homan Katrovsky, a 28­ycar old real estate agent, said his only grievance so far was missing a movie which was to be broadcast Sunday. "If it lasts, I think it would become annoying," he added. 
Aida Shakarian, a deputy head of the independent ROMIR polling agency said the irritation caused by the television blackout would rapidly strengthen with time. 
Some observers warned of spillover that could affect life in the city. "The absence of tolevision in the very heart of Russia is not just weird, it may provoke any kind of reaction. especially with the psychically unstable p<rnple." said Eduard Sagalayov, the head or Hussian Broadcasters' Association. 
When tho Echo or Moscow radio station was polling its audionce about the telovision blackout on Monday, one woman burst into tears when she answered tlrn question. 
The authoritins have bnen at odds over ways to rnstore the broadcasts. The Hussian capital has no rmwrvo broad­casting facility. and efforts to set up a temµorary n\place­ment would take days. 
The only station unaffected by the rim was tho TNT channol on the UIIF band, It is owned by the MBdia-Most company, whose head Vladimir Cusinsky was arrested and jailed for sevnr­al days in June in what was widoly seen as an attompt to stifle his company's media, which have reported critical­ly on President Vladimir 
Putin  and  the ·war  in  
Chechnya.  
On  Monday.  Media  

Minister Mikhail Lnsin angri­ly lashed out at Media-Most. accusing it of' biased cover­age of the lire and attempts to "exploit the tragedy." 

Notre, Dame Buy /Sell/Trade 



Nebraska Wanted 
Preferred Tickets 


234-5650 

·Attention SENIORS interested in the Rhodes, Marshall, and · Mitchell Scholarshi s Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a final meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the application process on: 
Tuesday, August 29, 2000 
6:00 p.m. 101 Law School 
-i.: 

If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
The Career Center 

FALL 2000 EVENTS 
AUGUST  
29-Tue 30-Wed 30-Wed 31-Thu  4:00-5:00 p.m. Noon-1:00 p.m. 6:30-7:30 p.m. 4:00-5:00p.m.  Composing Winning Resumes Catch the Opportunities on Go IRISH (Bring your lunch) Composing Winning Resumes Learn How to Use Go IRISH  G-20 Flanner (basmt) 119 O'Shaughnessy G-20 Flanner (basmt) G-20 Flanner (basmt)  

Videotaped Mock Interviews -Improve your job interviewing skills with a company recruiter. Sign-up in the Career Resource Center-First Floor ofFlanner Hall beginning Tuesday, August 22 (seniors) and Tuesday, August 29 Guniors). 
SEPTEMBER 
05-Tue Noon-I :00 p.m. Resume Writing (Bring your lunch) 119 O'Shaughnessy 12-Tue 6:00-7:00 p.m. Successful Interviewing G-20 Flanner (basmt) 13-Wed 5:30-7:00 p.m. Preparing for a Job Fair 
(Resumes, Interviews & More) 245 DeBartolo 18-Mon Noon-I :00 p.m. Resume Writing (Bring your lunch) 119 O'Shaughnessy 19-Tue 4:00-5:00 p.m. Inten--iewing 119 O'Shaughnessy 20-Wed 5:30-7:00 p.m. Preparing for a Job Fair 
(Resumes, Inten--iews & More) 245 DeBartolo 27-Thu 5:30-7:00 p.m. Resume Writing TBA 
Register to use Go IR1SH by calling 1-5200 or stopph,g by 
Flanner Hall 
The Career Center 
248 Flanner Hall http://careercenter.nd.edu (219) 631-5200 
Did you know that to interview on-campus you must be registered to use Go IRISH 







ATION 
Tuesday, Angusr 29, 2000 COMPll,ED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
POWs at issue in Korean summit: 
Th,~ return o!' hnndrcds of South Koreans belilwed to be living in North Korea against their will is among topics to be discussed dnring high-lf'vPI talks in Pyongyang this we~k. of1i­cials said Monday. A livP-nrnmber government ddngation led by L!nifkation !\1inistPr Park Jae­kyu was to leit~P for Pyongyang Tuesday for thrPe days of talks. Snoul offkials say trms of thousands or South Koman prisonf?rs of war nrvl'I' rPlurned home after the 1950-1953 Korran War. Citing defectors. they say about 300 of them arc still bcHo\'ed held in the North. 
Israeli parliament says no treaty: An 
absolulf' majority of lsrnnl's parliament told l'rinw Minislcr Fhud Harnk Monday thitl he has no moral authority to sign a pP-ace deal with the Palestinians sinn· he lf\ads a minority govern­nwnL Barak has said hP plans to completr a pPac1• dt>,d and !Pt the peoplP. approve ii in a rPf'nrPndum or a quickly ndlP<l PlPl'tion, over tlw linad of' tlw parliament. !lard-line oppo­1wnts admitl!,d that this tactic probably would swT1'1'cL lsnwl and tlw Palc1stinians are closer than PVt'r to rPar.hing a pPare agreement. though thr remaining issues, inducting th1\ sta­tus ol' Jprusalrrn. arn so !'motion-ridden that thry could scuttl,, iL 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
GOP urges minimum wage deal: 
Ilouse Spmtker Ihmnis I lastert offerPd Monday lo push !,~gislation boosting the minimum wage by $1 over two years without making the im:reasP contingent on two key tax ruts that drew objections from President Clinton. lkmoc:rnts expressPd cautious optimism that a deal r.ould bP struck, Hastert, R-111., said in a letter to the prnsidfmt that Republir,ans still wanted a $76 billion par·kage of' business tax breaks Lo accompm1y the wage measure but would rnmovc proposals to abolish the estate lax and to change pension laws. inr,Juding incrcasPd rnntribution Iimils for 40'\ I kl plans. 
Judge okays fen-phen settlement: A 
li•dcral judge has approved a proposed $3.75 billion national sPttlenwnt of health claims stPmrning rrom LhP diet drug combination fon­phen, which h,L.s been linked to potentially fatal heart damage. Under the sett!P.ment approved l\londay. !'(•n-plwn users would get up to $1.5 million. though most would get far less. dPp<rnding on tlwir l11vpJ of injury and how long thPy took the drugs. Barring an appc>al, attor­neys said, they rnuld bPgin receiving SPttlem,~nt rlwrks as early as January. More than 9,000 lawsuits have b1'Pn filed against American llonw Products. maker or fenl1uramine. lh0 "frn" in the fon-plwn diet drug rnmbination. 
Market WIich 8/28 
Dow 
11252.84 +60.21
]ONES 
CompositeUp: Same, Down: Volume:
• l..,62 521 
l~u 908,202.340 
AMEX: 934.97 +0.16 
Nasdaq: 4070.59 +27.91 
NYSE: 675.26 +2.73 
S&P 500: 1514.09 +7.61 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMl'ANYISECIJRITY %CHANGE .!iGAl1' PRICE INTEI, C()Rl'(INTC) , 1.19 ,i>.')4 7.1.88 ~IIR<lS< >IT CClRrtM,FT) t0.97 tCl,Ml 71.11 u,u1 WSTFi.lSl<:SC<ll 10.i, 10, 5(t l,Cd)Ci IX"OR\.llt:O~f INC (WU >,\I) >l.l.J •1.12. 17. l'J PF! L Ul.\!Pl'TER 'l>ELL) 12.:.1 ,0.87 .\9,1 l 
RUSSIA 

Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
At least two people, an elevator operator and a firefighter, were killed when an elevator plunged hundreds of feet to the gro-Und in a blaze that engulfed Moscow's land­mark television tower, offi­cials said Monday. 
The tire, which lasted for 26 hours before being put out Monday, left the 1,771­foot Ostankino tower a spectacular hulk, much of iL,; interior scorched or soot­coated and webs of wiring melted. Concerns rose that the protracted firn's intense heat may have warped structural elements that could cause parts of the tower to fall or put them beyond repair. 
The blaze was a back­breaking ordeal for fire­fighters. who hau!P.d heavy gear up dozens of flights of stairs. They finally extin­guished it around 5:40 p.m., Interior Minister Vladimir Rushailo said. 
The bodies of a high­ranking firefighter and an elevator operator were found in the wreckage, said Viktor 13eltsov, a spokesman for the Moscow Emergency Situations Ministrv. As many as four people· were believed to have been in the elevator and workers con­tinued to search through the debris, he said. 
The elevator had become stuck high up in the tower in the fire's early phase, and it wasn't immediately clear whether the victims were still alive when it plunged. Five other eleva­tors also crashed to the ground during the inferno, Russian media reported. 
The blaze knorked out most television service in the sprawling Russian capi­tal. leaving residents long­ing for news and entertain­ment and dispirited over the latest in a string of dis­asters that have under­scored the country's deteri­orating infrastructure. 
Grigory Sokolov. an unemployed recent college graduate watching the fire­fighting Monday afternoon, said he was disturbed "not because the soap operas are off the air, but because of the news programs." 
"There was no safety system -as usual." said· retired engineer Vladimir Ilin, gazing up at the tower. 
Automatic firefighting systems within the tower appeared to have failed or had run out of fire-sup­pressing foam, officials said. The tire started in the tower's thin spire about 
1.470 feet above ground, 

and spread downward, burning the observation deck and restaurant that made the tower a popular attraction for Muscovites and tourists. 
A series of recent disas­ters, induding gas explo­sions. ind ustrial accidents and breakdowns in the power grid, have highlight­ed how poor funding and maintenance have weak­ened Russia's infrastruc­ture. The fire came on the heels of an Aug. 12 acci­dent that sunk the nuclear submarine Kursk, killing all 118 people on board. 
"This emergency high­lights what condition vital facilities, as well as the entire nation, are in," President Vladimir Putin said al a government meeting. "Only economic development will allow us to avoid such calamities in the future." 
PERU 
American gets new treason trial 
Associated Press 
LIMA 
Four years after hooded military judges convicted Lori Berenson of planning a rebel attack -raising an outcry from Washington -Peru's military ovrrturned hM life sentcnre and passrd the rasc to a civili'an court. officials said Monday. 
ThP :W-vPar-old New York native was found guilty of treason by the secret tribunal in January 199h for allegedly helping the Tupac t\maru ({evolutionary \Jovemeni plan an 
attack on Peru's Congress. The 
attack  was  foiled  by  Peruvian  
authorities.  
The trib.unal released  a  written  

slatement to The Associated Press Monday saying that Bernnsnn's sen­tence was overturned on Aug. 18 and her case was passed to a civilian court on Thursday. 
Berenson's c1·efense attorney, Grimaldo Ach11.hui. told Radioprogramas that Berenson would remain imprisoned pending new trial. 
"VVe have fought to the last 
moment so that she would be judged in a dvilian court where she will avail of due process with all guaran­tees of a right to a defense," Achahui said. "This does not signify that she will be granted liberty." 
Berenson's case has been a sore point in U.S. relations with Peru. Washington has repeatedly prcssrd for a new trial, saying the secret nature of the court violatPd hPr rights. The U.S. government has also criticized as too harsh the living con­ditions ~he has reportedly been held under in Peruvian prisons. 
r---------------------------------~-­
page G The Observer . EDU CATION NEWS Tuesday, August 29, 2000 
High school students face hazing 
Associated Press 
Wi\SIIIN(;TON 
1\lmnst !tall' Llw high school · sLudnnLs who answnr!id a 
rrnlionwidP surv1•y said tlwy 
Wt'l'I' niadP to nal disgusting 
things, abust' all'ohol or drugs 
or 1wrl'orm lwrniliating or ille­
gal ads to join athlPlit'. t1 1ams. 
tlw hand, P\'f'JJ rhurch groups, 
rr>sParr!wrs said /1,londay. 
Tlw n•sParclwrs at t\lfn·d 
U11iv1•rsily in .\lfrPd, N. Y. ­
known for st.udins of hnzillg 
among col!Pgt> sports lPams, 
!'ratPrniti1·s and sororitins ­
said tlw rt>port on high srliools 
shows a willingnPss among 
younw•r !ll'Opln Lo dn vio!Pll('t' 
or brPak laws f'or a SPllSP of 
llf'longing. II dPmonslratcs a::, 
w1•!1 Urn! young pnopk's social 
art.ivilins should hav1~ grPatnr 
ad ull stqw rvision and giv1•s 
proof' that 110 group is 
imm11111•. tlw rns11an:lwrs said. 
"StudPnts rnav alreadv be 
di'!'ply i1111111•rsP·d in llrn ·cul­
t II r1• of' hazing bid'ore tlwy 
arrive 011 our carnpUSf\S as 
fr I's hnw n . " s a icl Ch a r I1• s 
l•:dnwndson, priisid<•nt of' the 
private lilwral art.s univnrsity 
in wPst1•rn New York. "Our 
challPngl' is much gr,1al<\r 
than anyone appreciated." 
In tlw survP.y -a two-page 
mail-in questionnaire sent to 
1 I th and 12th graders this 
spring -students said Limy 
wcrn most likely to bo hazed 
by a sports learn or gang. 
They also reported being 
hazed for music. art and the­
ater clubs and church groups. 
Ev1!ry high school organization 
except school newspaper and 
yearbook staffs had high ltwels 
of hazing. 
The university-funded sur­
vey does not represent the clothes to her daughter's Ll\flll population at large. Only being forced to enl a banana 
1,54 I of those mailNI sun•pys protruding from a boy's pants r,•lurnn<l them, just ov1\r 8 zipper. percent, but tlw projPct's !tiad "They think their harass­n~sParchcr, Nadi1w Jloovcr, ment policies cover hazing. said rurtlwr studins could but they don't," l\1urtie said. build on tlrn findings. ''Tlrnrc is SU('h an issm1 about 
Tlw results 1rnv(•rtheless l'ur­wlwtlrnr tlrn kids am consnnL­l.lwrPd a clnhatc OVl'r wl1ctlrnr ing to tlw hazing or 1101." 
hazing  is  Snrnc schools  - institutions  
morn a time- including the  
honornd ri.LP of passag11 or a dangl'r­ "Initiation rites are import.ant. Groups need  l!pp<1r Clair. school  St. Pa .. dis­ 
ous trend that sends incrPasing numbers or  lo fJoncl. How you do lhese initiation rites is at issu.e. "  trict and Urn university of' Vt>rmont -,ll'H 'cracking  
childr<•n  to  down on haz­ 
hospitals jails. I  or 11  Nadine Hoover project leader  ing. creating strict policins and punish- 

WinslllW, 
Ariz., six of Pight high school athlntes r.lrnrgcd in llw sexual assault of about a dozen baskfltball and track team members accPpted pll'a bargains in tlw casos; tlrn uaskdbal! coach was also indi<:tcd. ac<:uscd of knowing about some of the abusns and railing to stop them. In Trumbull. Conn., high school wrestlers were charged after a 15-ycar-old wrestler was sexually assault­ed with the handle of a plastic knife. A high school newspa­per in Avon, Ind., documented assaults on young athletes. 
Schools need to do more, said Linda Murtic, an Essex, Vt., parent who campaigned against hazing after her 16­year-old daughter, Lizzie, was hazed on the school gymnas­tics team. The team pro­gressed from having new members dress up in silly 
ments. Morn 
than 40 statns with anti-hazing laws, althnugh rnsea.rchPrs said tlw laws do not appear to limit ha1.ing significantly. 
"Initiation rites arc impor­tant. Groups need lo bond," said project leader Hoover, answering critics who she snid accuse her of trying lo turn tho nation's students into "wusses." "llow you do these initiation riles is at issue." 
llazing was defined by rcsnarchers as any humiliat­ing or dangerous act expected of new group members, regard!Ass of willingness to participate. Students said they were asked mostly to do humiliating things: pushing a penny across the a school bus floor with the nose; sucking someone's toes; skinny dip­ping; or drinking foul mixtures· such as urine, spoiled milk and eggs. 
Study: Vouchers help black students 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGl•:1.FS 
t\ studv that measured tlw nl'fect ol,. school vouclwrs on student 1wrformancn round f hat black studiints 1wr­formed better on standard­ized t.nsts aft11r switc.hing tn private schools. 
The study, rnlnas1•d Monday. found 110 similar improvcm1•11ts among otlwr nthnir. groups, how,wor. 
The \'ouclwr systPm, whid1 providns monny to lwlp par­nn ts pay for privatf• school­ing, has bm.:onw a kny issue in tlrn prnsidi•nfial nlPction and in Calil'nrnia. wlwrn vot­ers fat'.ll a vouclwr initiativP on tho Novcrnlwr ballot. 
The study, led by Paul PBtorson. a govnrnmnnt pro­rnssor at Ilarvard and a l'Pl­!ow at Stanl'ord University's 1 loovf'!r Institution, exam in11d thrPP prival.Ply-f'und1•d PXpPr­i11w II tal programs in Nnw York, Washington, D.C .. and Dayton, Ohio. 
Ht\scarclwrs found that bP f,v Pn n I IJ<J 7 a n cl J1JIJ'J black childrnn on vouclJ1•r~ raisPd tht•ir 1wr1·pntilP rank­ings on standardizPd math nncl rc•ading tnst.s on avPragc• by <i.:1 points. Tlwir scort's WPl'<l comparnd with a ron• trol group of' stuclPnls who w1•rp not awardPd vourlwrs bv lott.Prv and rt•rnairwd in pt1blic scl{ools. 
Tlw gains wcrl' dPPtnPd s tatis ti !'. a 11 y s i gn if'i can t IJ y rnsParclwrs. who said tlwy Pqual a third of' thl' nation­wide gilp in L1,sL scores bt\twnnn blacks and whill's. 
Tlw sc•.o rPs of' wll itP a ncl Ilispanic childn111 Laking part in a voudwr program, how­l'VPr, showl'd 110 statistically significant chanw·. 


Happy Birthday T-Bone! 
Act Like a Nutty 
Irishman Tonight! 
Love,S~ 


Tuesday. August 29, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
U.S. criticizes Cuba's migrant policy 
Texas struggles with 
Associated Press 
WASlllNGTON 
Scr.retarv of State Maclelninc Albright ·accused Cuba on Monday of arbitrarily d,rnying (!Xit permits to Cubans with U.S. 
V i S a S , thereby scparaling families and forcing would-be imrnigrc1nts to attempt high-risk 

nscapns by Albright boat. In a state-men t. Albright said Cuba's actions violated agreements with the United States. interna­tional standards and "funda­mental human decnncy." She said she ordered a formal protest lodged with Cuba's diplomatic office in Washington. "The government of Cuba is increasingly obstructing the safo, legal and orderly migra­tion of individuals from Cuba," Albright said. Disclosure or thn diplomatic notl'. containing U.S. chargAs of inhumane behavior, follows a protractcd and touchy U.S. dis­pute with Cuban Americans over 6-year-old E_lian Gonzalez. The boy was spirited from Cuba by his mother. who died at sea, and taken home by his 
father after a l@gthy legal bat­tle with cmigre rnlatives in Florida. The Cuban government 
cited the incident in June when it indefinitely suspended immi­gration negotiations with the United States. 
Unlike Elian and his mother, the 117 Cubans cited in the U.S. complaint had visas to go to the United States but were prevent­ed from leaving Cuba. 
In 16 cases, the denial sepa­rated families, while in 17 cases, physicians and other pro­fession al s wrre blocked from leaving, said Philip Reeker, a State Department spokesman. 
The diplomatic note alleged that Cuba had not abided by a 1994 agreement seeking to establish ground rules for the orderly migration of 20.000 Cubans plus family members to the United States. 
"The Cuban government has consistently failed to take effec­tive action in response to our c:ontinuing and legitimate humanitarian concerns," the note said. 
The note was handed to Fernando Remin~z. chief of the Cuban diplomatic mission in Washington, and also was dcliv­crnti to the Cuban foreign min­istry in Havana. A copy was made available to the Associated Press. The com­plaint's substance and some details were later released by Re<~ker. 
The Cuban mission offered no immediate reaction to the spe­cific accusation. 
How,wer, spokesman Roberto Garcia criticized U.S. policy as criminal, immoral and discrimi­natory, saying the United States was responsible for deaths at sea because it encouraged Cubans to try to reach U.S. shores, knowing they would be warmly rec:eived. 
"Most people who come here know once they reach American soil they will be granted benefits other immigrants don't get," Garcia said. 
The U.S. note said 117 Cubans from 5 7 families had been deniAd exit permits by the Cuban government in a recent 75-day period. The United 
heat wave, dry spell 
s a

forecast "What we need is a good,
of two fleeing Cuban brothers 
National

"highlights the growing propen­
doesn't hold steady rain. Not just a Weather
sitv of Cubans denied the means 
a hint of a 
day or two ofrain, but a Service 
to 0 migrate in a safe, orderly and 
sprinkle, let 
meteorolo­

alone a good real steady rain for a
legal fashion to risk their lives in 
gist Mark

desperate sna voyages." The 
gully wash­week or two." Fox.
brothers were victims of a shark 
er. 
E v e n

attack in the Florida Straits. 
"You just 
cloud-secd-
Polly Drozd 

According to the note, exit 
keAp pouring 
ing in

permits routinely are denied 
water on the resident 
States had granted all of them visas. 
"We think that they need to issue exit pArmits to all those individuals whu have valid U.S.­entry documents," Heeker said. "And at various times we've offered specific instances to them, as we have again today, where families were separated by their policies." 
A senior State Department official said Coast Guard person­nPl n~cently have picked up an increasing number of neeing Cubans who have U.S. travel dornments. Established proce­dures require that Cubans inter­cepted by the Coast Guard be returned to the island. 
The note said the recent death 
Associatcd Press 
DALLAS 

With not even a hint of rain 
to settle the dust Monday, 
North Texas entered its 59th 
day without moisture ­
longer than the rncord-set­
ting dry spell during the Dust 
Bowl days of the Depression. 
Lawns in Dallas-Fort Worth 
and bevond arc burned, 
farmers· nnd ranchers have 
lost an estimated $595 mil­
lion and reservoirs are 
shrinking fast, even though 
rainfall for the year is close 
to normal. 
And the 
family members of Cubans who defect to lhe United States. "The Cuban government is punishing entire families, including small children. for the action of one family member," the note said. 
Over the years, officials said, Cuba generally had been living up to terms of the agreement but, as the diplomatic note sug­gests, that assessment has changed radically. 
Cuba has long been a target of both Republicans and Democrats in election years. For example, economic sanctions against Cuba were tightened in the presidential election years of 1992 and 1996. 

yard, and it keeps turn­ing brown," said Molly Gneiting, who lives in the Fort Worth suburb of North Richland Hills. "Every morn­ing I water the flowers. If I miss just once, you can tell it by the afternoon." 
And it's not just dry; it's hot. Monday was the year's 36th day of 100-degree tem­peratures in Dallas-Fort Worth. The record is 69 days, set in 1980. 
"It looks like the middle of winter. Everything's brown," said Rayford Pullen, agricul­tural extension agent for Montague County, a largely agricultural area along the Red River. 
In the town of Throckmorton, hundreds of volunteers spent their vaca­tions digging ditches for a pipeline to bring water from another town because their own reservoir had fallen too low to supply drinking water. 
Lou Hyde and her husband, Ted, bought their home at Lake Arrowhead near
Debbie Ballou (Professor of Management, ONO) 
Wichita Falls so their chil­
"Overview of Current E-commerce Issues" 
dren and grandchildren would have a place to swim 
David Overbeeke (General Manager E-business, GE Aircraft Engines) "Business to Business E-commerce" 
and fish. 
"Even the cranes don't go out to fish anymore," she said. "Every morning when we get up and look out, there is less and less water." 
"What we need is a good steady rain," said Polly Drozd, whose family owns a marina on Lake Lewisville near Oallas. whern the water level has dropped 15 feet. "Not just a day or two of rain, but a real steady rain for a week or two." 
But none is expected. "Even the long-range forecast 
doesn't 
look good," 
i cl 
hopes of 
bringing 

rain to the Texas Panhandle was on hold -there weren't any clouds to seed. 
"The ninth of August was the last time we've seen any­thing," said Shea Lea Clower, meteorologist for the "precip­itation enhancement" pro­gram. 
Still, the Dust Bowl years were much worse. 
That previous record of 58 days without rain, set in 1934 and tied in 1950, was only broken by one-one-hundredth of an inch of rain. 
"It was terrible. It was a horrible time," said Bill Green, a curator at the Panhandle-Plains Historical Museum in Canyon. "Dirt drifted up and covered barbed-wire fences. Conditions were much worse than they are today because we have learned a lot about soil conservation in 70 years." 
And despite the dry spell, North Texas has received 
21.19 inches of rain since Jan. l, only about an inch below normal, mostly because of a wet June. 
September 1 September 15 September 29 
October 6 
October27 November3 November 10 November 17 December 1 
Geoff Robertson (Vice President of Engineering, mvp.com) "Starting a B2C Company" 
Michael Cullinane (Chief Financial Officer, divine interVentures) "How to Value an E-business" 
Rick Spurr (Senior Vice President, Entrust Technologies) "Internet Security Threats and Measures to Deal with Them" 
Colleen Sullivan (Dir. of Information Systems, Alltel Communications) "Data Warehousing and Mining for Building Business Intelligence" 
Reuben Slone (Vice President of Global E-business, Whirlpool) "Supply Chain Management" 
Oieiyl Fletterick (Manager, PricewaterhouseCoope.rs) "Conducting E-business Assessment" 
Dr. Anatole Ciershrrum (Director, Andersen Consulting) 
"Emerging Trends and Technologies in E-commerce" 

Once aweek International Student Services &Activities (fonnerly known as the Office ofInternational Student Affairs) will showcase some ofthe most popular international films ever made. 
Visit the Office's website www.nd.edu/~iMa/ for more movie updates.
~111111•1111111111111111111111111 ¦ 11111111111111111111111111111 ¦¦ 1111 
CJ: --;ast dip Old the sche1U1le and savt ill 
All movieswill be shown inthe MONTGOMERYTHEATRE at LaFortune Student Center at 8:00 pm, All movies are FREE. 
I

Tuesday, Aug111t 29 Kolya (France) 1997 Ac,demy Award JJinner Tuesday, September 5 Secrets and Lies (UK) Wurner of1996 Conats Fdm Festival Tuesday, September 12 To Live (China)
All lectures hd<l from 10:4oam-12:0,1p111 
Tuesday, September 19 The Piano(Australia'NewZealand) 
,Jordan Auditorium, Mcn<loza College of Business 
Tuesday, September 26 Antonio's Line (Holland/Belgium) 1996 Academy Award Winner 
.........................................................................
i\olrc Dame fantll), staff and students arc" clcomc to attend these prc..,cntation.., 
for additional information, you can contact !SSAat 631-3825. 
csc 
C E N T E R F O R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
"... to act 1ustly, to love tenderly and to walk hu,nbly ivith vour God." 
Micah 6:8 

• 


ervzce 
Come to Activities Night at the JACC tonight to learn about service opportunities in the South Bend Community 
SERVICE/SOCIAL ACTION CLUBS AND LOCAL AGENCIES 
CSC General Information 417 CSC -Appalachia Break Seminar 418 CSC -International SSP 419 CSC -Lead Tutors Program # I 420 CSC -Lead Tutors Program #2 421 CSC -Senior Transitions Program 422 CSC -Summer Service Projects 423 CSC -Urban Plunge 424 CSC -Social Concerns Seminars 425 Experiential Learining Council 426 AIDS Awareness/SWAT 427 AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist 428 American Cancer Society Club 429 American Lung Association 430 Amnesty International Notre Dame 431 Arnold Air Society 432 Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 435 Big Brothers/Big Sisters of St. Joseph County 434 Boys and Girls Club of St. Joseph County 435 Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination 436 Campus Girl Scouts 437 Catholic Charities 438 Center for the Homeless Children's Group 439 Center for Basic Learning Skills 440 Center for the Homeless 441 Charles Martin Youth Center 50 I Chiara Home 502 Circle K 503 Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics 504 Council for Fun and Learn 505 Dismas of Michiana 506 East Timor Action Network@ ND 507 Educational Outreach Program 508 El Buen Vecino 509 Family Violence Unit 510 F oodshare 5 I I Global Health Initiative 512 Habitat for Humanity 513 Harbor Light Hospice 514 Healthy Community Initiative 515 Helpful Undergraduate Students 516 Notre Dame Hospice Chapter 517 Hospice of St. Joseph County 5 18 
Hugh O'Brian Youth Foundation Alumni Association 519 Humane Society of St. Joseph County 520 Junior Achievement Club, The 521 Juvenile Justice Center 522 Knights of Columbus 523 La Casa de Amistad 524 Notre Dame Lifewater 525 Literacy Council of St. Joseph County 526 Logan Center 527 Logan Center Club 528 Best Buddies 529 Super Sibs 530 ND/SMC Lunch P.A.C.K. 531 Ms. Wizard Day Program Team 532 Neighborhood Study Help Program 533 Net Impact Notre Dame 534 New Prarie High School Tutoring/Mentoring Program 535 Northern Indiana Center for History 536 Notre Danie Chapter of Pax Christi-U.S.A. 537 Progressive Student Alliance 538 Recyclin' Irish 539 Refugee and Immigration Services 540 Reins of Life 541 Right To Life, ND 602 St. Joseph's Chapin Street Healthcare Center Volunteers 603 Salvation Army of South Bend 604 Notre Dame Council 605 Sex Offense Services 606 South Bend Juvenile Correction Facility 607 Special Friends Club 608 St. Joseph's Catholic Church 609 St. Paul's Retirement Community 610 Student Tutorial Education Program 611 Students for Environmental Action 612 Teamwork for Tomorrow of Notre Dame 613 The Center for Hospice and Palliative Care 614 Trident Naval Society 615 United Health Services 616 University Young Life 617 Women's Care Center 618 Women's Resource Center 619 World Hunger Coalition 620 

Tuesday, August 29, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 9 
Lieberman, Bush embrace religion to reach voters 
to he a model to the world of A day earlier in Detroit. he diverse society such as ours." must appreciate the dignity ...
A.sociated Press 
justice and inclusion and told members of a black Chicago Mayor Richard in all people." diversity without division. Jews church that he hopes his can­Daley, who accompanied Bush campaigns as a differ­
CHICAGO 
and Christians and Muslims didacy as an Orthodox Jew will Lieberman around the city cnt kind of Republican, aAgain pushing the bound­
speak as one in their commit­reinstate "a place for faith in Monday, acknowledged the "compassionate conservative"arins bf)twcen the spiritual and ment to a kind, just tolerant America's public lifo." power of prayer in politics. who welcomes help from faith­secular, Democratic vice presi­society," Bush told B'nai B'rith, For all the billing aides give "We know there's a separa­based groups on everything
dential candidate Joseph 
a Jewish to issues like health insurance, tion of church and state in from education to fighting
Lieberman 
service Medicare and prescription America, but at the same time, drugs.
s a i d 
organiza­drug coverage, Lieberman elected officials realize that Earlier in the day,
Monday 
tion. manages to bring the discus­they're all citizens right here Lieberman told Democratic
that "reli­Both can­sion back to God. Bush also as well as activists he's
gion is a 
didates talks about his faith. religious "not asking
source of 
h a v e A recent Newsweek poll leaders. "This is the most religious anybody to
unity and 
embraced showed 66 percent of the pub­They're vote for me
strength in 

country in the world and 
religion as lic was "not at all concerned" congrega­because of my
Amnrica." a means of that Lieberman's religion tions are sometimes we try to stifle religion."''This is Lieberman 
Bush r e a c h i n g might interfere with his ability citizens as that or hide it. " "Hopefully,
tlw most 
voters. to perform as vice president. well, and on Election
religious 
Lieberman, warmly received But Lieberman's emphasis that's why Day that will 
country in the world and Joseph Lieberman
by the spiritual leaders, said on religion troubles the Anti­you have to be an ir r·e I e · sometimos, we try to stifle that 
Democratic vice 
he was moved that the gather­Defamation League (ADL). build this vant factor asfact or hide it," Lieberman told 
ing crossed religious lines which issued a statement relationship presidential candidate 1 think it is
150 religious leaders at an 
"because it makes real for me Monday calling on him to up," Daley today for mostinterfaith breakfast. "But the what I have believed with pro­refrain from "overt expres­said. Americans.
profound and ultimately, most found faith throughout my life. sions" of religious values and B u s h And Al Gore important reality is that we urn that religion is a source of beliefs. praised B'nai B'rith in a con­and I offer ourselves to not only citizens of this blessed unity and strength in ··candidates should feel com­ference call from Austin. America as the team that's country, we are citizrms of the 
America.'' fortable explaining their reli­Texas, saying, "Your works hest for America on the mer­samn awesomn God." fie met with pastors, priests gious convictions to voters," have touched millions of hearts its," he said. 
Meanwhile, Republican pres­
and rabbis at the South Shore said Howard Berkowitz. ADL and are a testament to the En mute to the airport for a idi>ntial candidate c;1rnrge W. 
Cultural Center, a former national chairman, and power of faith." flight to California, Lieberman,Bush praised members of a country club that banned Abraham Foxman, the nation­"I want to rally the armies of joined by Rep. William Jewish group for performing blacks and Jews. In greeting al direr.tor. "'At the same time, compassion that exist in every Lipinski, D-111., stopped at a "miracles of renewal" with the group, Lieberman quoted a however, we believe there is a community across America." train station to shake hands. A 
faith-based communily pro­
line from a Hebrew song, Hine point at which an emphasis on Bush said. "A truly welcoming pregnant woman who shook grams. wh.ich he supports. Ma Tov, that calls for "broth­religion in a political campaign culture must recognize that hands with Lieberman pointed "Our nation is chosen by God 
ers and sisters to dwell togeth­becomes inappropriate and every person is created in the to her belly and said, "You and commissioned by history er in harmony." even unsettling in a religiously image and likeness of God. We have two votes right here." 
Oo you like 

Large One Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
271-0300 
Call today and 11am-2am sun-thurs mention this ad!! 11am-3am fri-sat 
---. 

IEWPOINT 
O
THE page I 0 BSERVER Tuesday, Augusr 29, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
1'.0. Rn, Q. "lotrr IJ.11m. IN 46~'i(, 024 ~muh Drnmi; 11.,11. N<>m ll,nnr. IN sG'i'i(, 
Ef'>IT0R IN C!llH Mike Co11nolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  lillSINf.'iS MANAGER  
Norn·1i Cilbpic  Tirn l..111c  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  Ol'ERATI0NS MANAGER  
Bri.m Kessler  

NEWS EDITOR: Aune Marie Macringl)' V1F.Wl'OINT EDITOR.: Ula H,w~hey Sro.RTS EDITOII.: Kerry Smith ScENE EDITOR., Am,md,i Greco SAINT MAR\0 5 EDITOR: Molly McVor PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADV!;RTISINC MANAGER.: P:11 Pt"tcrs Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Cunvi!le WEil ADMINISTRATOR: Ad,1m Turner CONTROLLER: !\oh Wood, GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cudl.ir 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO............6JJ .747l FAX .................631-6927 ADVERTISING .. ....... 63 J.6900/8840 
observer@Jarwin .c~. nJ.ed u EDITOR IN CHIEF.......... . ...................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME... . ....... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE. . .....631·5313 NEWS.. ........... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.eJ u 
V1EWr01NL. . ....................63 l ·5303 ohscrver.vicwpoinc. l@nd.eJu SrORTS....... .................................63 l-4543 ohserver .sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE............... .............................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nJ.edu SAINT MARYS.. . .................... 631•4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........... .....................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEil ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site Jt ht1p:!!obsm1rr. 11d.edJ1 for daily upd,11es ofc.impus news, sporrs, features and opinion columns. as wdl as ,.:,moons. reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
GUEST COLUMN 

Liberation to the point of exploitation 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah When. and if. I have children. I hope I don't have a little girl. 
I can only imagine 20 years in the future the kind of supposed "equality" my little girl would receive. Quite frankly. if society continues on this "upward" slant toward gender Emily Fuller equality, I hope NOBODY has a lit­tle girl. 
Daily Utah
Sure. things for 
Chronicle
women are looking up from the time we were about as valued as cattle. But instead of animals, we get to be raw meat instead, dis­played on the dorm room wall. 
I simply am tired of seeing my sex dragged through the mud and younger and younger girls drowned in it. Granted, we get to vote. but now can we please have the right to our bodies? 
I am frightened that further genera­tions will step into this unknown waste­land of female exploitation. If I can watch "Who Wants to Marry a Millionaire?," what will they watch? 
Better education of today's young girls should be the game plan. Starting at the elementary school level, girls should be instilled with self-worth. Too many young women go by the way side due to lack of seir-esteem and the opprnssive media surrounding them in their most fragile moments of develop­ment. 
The sexy images in magazines and television are aimed specifically at women and younger girls. Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera are some of the top-selling performers of our day. 
Granted. they offer entertainment. but they are the ideals for small girls, telling them, "This is pretty. and you want to be pretty." Society is basically denying girls the chance to feel worth within themselves solely so someone can make a bur.k. Only one in a million match up to this standard of"prntly." 
Last year. while flipping aimlessly through television drnnnels. I stumbled upon the Olsen twins ("Full House's" Michelle) in a new sitcom. The girls arc portrayed as 12-year-olds who have only two interests -parties and boys. I don't remember that being the norm when I was 12. 
Shouldn't they still be doing some­thing fun at that time? So I changed the channel to Dawson's Creek. 
ln high school. l had sex ed. I had male sex ed with a little "here is how a girl looks" thrown in on the side. I had the typical "No. no" speech and even listened. It wasn't until I began research for a paper in my senior year that I realized how little I knew, and I wasn't the only one. 
It is pathetic, and even more pathetic is society's unwillingness to counteract the movement ofsexual oppression. Instead, government considers not only taking away the right of a woman to make der.isions about her body, but to her education about it as well. 
Women are allowed little education about the ways their bodies function. Experimentation and word of mouth take the place of a stronger education. No one should have to learn about her sexuality that way. 
When people talk about removing sex education from the schools, I don't understand what they are lobbying for. What education is there for them to take away? 
The argument is that parents should do the teaching about sexuality, but a "No. no" approach will no longer suf­fice in today's society. Most parents will not sit down with their children and discuss sexuality just because the gov­ernment said they should. 
Where are the parents of the 10 year­old wearing a tube top and flashy makeup flirting with boys at the mall? I wonder what her parents are teaching her about sexuality -"Oh honey. just go watch some MTV." 
Today's girls should have a full edu­cation on the topic of their sexuality if the media arc going to slap them in the face with it. 
The ever-present double standard further r.onfuses young tP-enage minds of our day. Young women who am sex­ual. the way Britney tells them to b(J, are considernd "sluts" or "whores," but young men with similar lifestyles are "players" or "pimps" and congratulated by their peers. 
Am I the only one who secs some­thing wrong with this picture'? 
Men are not entirely at fault for this. Women arc half of the problem. If a woman does not put down the Cosmo for 30 seconds, or try to better herself by refusing to shop at Victoria's Ser.ret. then she should not complain that it is hard to be a women. 
Today's "liberated" woman should be doing more to help future generations then just wearing her spiked heels to work. hoping her daughter does as "well as she has." 
Where is all the true backing of the worth of today's young women? Sure. Nike Corp. gives us an ad or two. but even then we're only pretty with the right sneakers! Would somebody get off the money train headed to Teengirlville for just one second to give young women a true identity before stuffing another "Heal World" down their throats? 
Women need very much to unite. They must stop giving in to bogus stereotypes and start teaching their friends and daughters the truths about their worths and sexual identities (like the fact thev have them). 
Society will not stop with the opprPs­sion until we stop letting it be an oppressor. Here's to you Maxim execu­tives -may you all have daughters and may they all carry boxes full of makeup to fifth grade. 
This column first appeared in the University ofUtah newspaper. the Daily Utah Chronicle. on Aug. 25. 2000. and is reprinted here courtesy of the l!­
WIRE. 

The views e.1:pressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces• sarily those of The Observer. 
weather for up-to-rlw minute forecasrs 
advertise for policies md rates of print ads 
archives ro search for arrides 1mblislml after August 1999 movies/music for weekly srndent reviews 
online features for spe· cial campus coverage 
about The Observer 
ro rneet rhe editor. and sta!T 
POLICIES 
Tl,e Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print anJ online by the smdenrs of rhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Edit<;rial content, induding advertisemenrs, is nor governei.l by policies of the administration ofeither instiwtion. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse .,dverrisements hased on content. 
The news is reported ;is .tccurately ,md objectively as possible. Ull.ligned editorials represent rhe opinion of the 11t,1ioriry of the Editor in Chief, M,maging EJicor, Assistant Mallagmg Editor .md dep,mmem editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the .,mhors and nor necessarily those ofThe Ohservcr. 
Viewpoint space is ,iv,1ibblc to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lcners is encouraged. Leners ro the Editor 1mm he signed am! nrnsr indude c:om.tct irtfunn,1cion. ' 
(j1mti11m r,.,;ardwg Obsm,tr polirirs ,huuld be tlirm­d 10 l:ilirnr III Chie(Milr, Com,o//y. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
E
SELF-SERVICE CONSULTING 
0 
tc--~---_-_-_-_-_ -_ -_-_-_-_ -_ -_-_-_-_ -_ -_-_-_--..:---1 ~ 
1 l.JAS HIRED 
BE.CAUSE. YOU'RE. ALL DUMBER THAN A 
i 


. 
@I
.. 
E 
"' 
i 
~ 
" 
"' 
E 
0 
0 
t 
'ii 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A woman without a man is like a fish without a bicycle. " 
Gloria Steinem feminist 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Tuesday, August 29, 2000 BSERVER page I I 
GUEST COLUMN 
Encouragingvoting through terror 
AMES, Iowa 
Today. I am willing to make a predir.Lion. 
Unlikn most of' the major news media who are reluctant. to dPdare a victor in the presidential race before the piv­otal month of October. I will stake my journalistic reputation on this pick. Are Tim Kearns you ready'? Drum roll. please. The win­
ner is -not me. of Family Circus fame. 
In 2000, tho leading vote-getter 
Iowa Stale 
among registered voters will be a blank 
/Jaily
brrllot. n~presenting the registered voter who didn't actually vote. This will 
be a landslide victory sincfl a blank bal­
lot should earn morn 500 dectornl votos and bo the first 
randidatn to win iwery state. 
So. we havP a winnPr. To what can we attribute this smashing politicc1l success? Much like Carter. Reagan. Bush and Clinton. the blank ballot won courtesy of feeble and uninteresting opponents: the replica called Al Gore and thP governor formerly known as Dubya. 
Votr.r apathy is growing. Ar.cording to the Federal Election Commission, the percentage of registered voters who took the 10 minutes to vote in 1996 was 49.08 per­r.ent. Less than half of tlw registered voters of the United States turned out. 
That's bad. but it only gets worse when the FEC informs you that only 74.4 percent of the eligible voting-age popu­lation was registcrrd. With a little ralculation, it becomes c:lrar. 37 .O:i percrnt of the U.S. voting-age population voted. and it turns out President Clinton was re-eler,ted bec,wse roughly 18 percent of the American population voted for him. 
Wow. Them are Gallup polls that seem to encompass that many people. Cnlnss the FEC does somrthing to drastic3:lly r-hange thr clertion process. Not Me will be elected pres1­dr.nt. Once again. I have the solution. if they care to listen. 
Amr.ricans won't vote unless they feel there is some urgent need to do so. So why not count those non-voters' non-votes? Run a r,andidate for the non-voter party. Count cverv non-vote as two votr.s for the non-voter party. and take.a vote from the non-voter party for every vote cast. Unless the candidate is awful. it wouldn't work. That non­voter randidate needs to be someone so abhorrent that Americans will universally get out of their chairs to vote against that person specifically. 
Who should that person be? Kathie Lee Gifford. 
She rr.centlv left her show and husband Frank is too old to producr. m·ore spawn. so she needs something to fill her time. ll.,ither than allow her to record more CDs. force her into tlw presidPntial limelight. 
Thr. !'car of a GirTordian presidency would do this nation good. Anrnrirnns would become rabidly intr.rested in the political arena and find themselves working together to find a candidate. just to avoid Kathie Lee. . 
Just in case thr.re are still a few apathetir, voters in this country. Gifford mrnds a running mate. Martha Stewart. 
Though I would appreciate a forr.ign policy based on the export of lace doilies and hand towels, the idea of America's offirial motto being changed to "H's a good thing," should instill fear in the electorate. 
Consider the impart. Male voters will turn out in droves. eithr\r on pure chauvinism or the common sense notion that living in a Gilford/Stewart era would be hell. Admittr.dly. Gore/Lir.berman, Bush/Cheney and Nader/LaOuke am all relatively unpleasant ideas for one reason or anolhc>r. but comparably, our nation has the eas­iest choice of' all time. 
Our solution is obvious. non-voters of America. Start vot­ing or we start punishing you for allowing 18 percent of the country to decide who takes $200,000 off your tax dollars. Speak up even ii' it's just to keep the national anthem from being changed to "lfYou Could See Me Now." 
Whfln it comes down to it. issues are less and less impor­tant. Lieberman's Judaism. Bush's akoholism. they're minor issues. The major issue in this election will be sanily. 
If they do sonwhow win this elertion, I can tell you who to blame: our old l'ricnd Not Me. 
This column first appeared in the Iowa State University newspaper, the Iowa State University, on Aug, 28, 2000, and is reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The Views expressed here are those ofthe author and nol neressarily thosP ofThe Observer. 
Waiting for the future of Catholic education 
The Catholic bishops' Application to the United States of Ex Corde /Icclesiae, the 1990 apostolic r,onstitution on Catholic. universities. will go into effect next May 3rd. In this academic year, the bish­ops and the universities will dialogue as to how to implenrnnt the Application. 
First, the Application requires that "the univer­sity should ... recruit and appoint Catho lies as professors so that to the extent possi­ble. those committed to the wit­ness of the faith will constitute a majority of the fawlty." In the past two decades the proportion of Catholics on Notre Dame's tenured and tenure-track far,ulty has fallen to about 55 percent. 
Second, the Application says that Catholic professors of theolo­gy "have a ... duty to be faithful to the Churr,h's magisterium as the authoritative interpreter of sacred Scripture and sacred tra­dition [and they] are required to have a inandatum granted by competent ecclesiastical authori­tv." The mandatum. which is /pquired by Canon Law, is "an acknowledgment by churr,h authority that a Catholic profes­sor [of theology] is a teacher within the full communion of the Catholic Church ... The manda­tum [is not] an appointment ... or approbation of one's teaching by church authorities." Francis Cardinal George, of Chicago, described the mandatum "as a statement of relationship, not of direct control. It is a ... recogni­tion that a Catholic theologian teaches in communion with the Church, that the theologian is related to the pastor of the faith community ... and that the disci­pline of theology receives its data from that same community." According to the Application, "the mandatum recognizes the profes­sor's commitment ... to teach authentic Catholic doctrine and to refrain from putting forth as Catholic teaching anything con­trarv to the Church's magisteri­um_;, That makes sense. It is fair to say that, if Notre Dame will not ensure that its required courses in theology are "faithful to tho church's magisterium," those courses (and required philosophy courses) should no longer be required. If tho professors want to do their own thing, let them and the University abandon any claim that it is the "Catholic" thing and let the students decide whether to take such courses. 

Third, the Application states that "students should have the opportunity to be educated in the church's moral and religious principles and social teachings and to participate in the life of faith ... Catholic students have a right to receive ... instruction in authentic Catholic doctrine and practice ... Courses in Catholic doctrine and practice should be made available to all stu­dents." 
The Application enu­merates. among "the essential elements of Catholic identity": "Commitment to Catholic ... atti­tudes in ... all ... university activi­ties, including ... recognized stu­dent and faculty organizations ... with due regard for aca­demic freedom and the con­science of every individ­ual; ... Commitment to provide person­al services (health care, counseling and guidance) ... in conformity with the church's ethi­cal and religious teaching and direc­
tives; Commitment '\ to create a campus ~ 
culture and environ­ment that are expressive ... of a Catholic way of life." 
The principle here is truth in labeling. As The Wall Street Journal noted, "The ... seculariz­ing trends that ... erased the Protestant foundations of America's leading universities ... threaten to do the same to the country's 235 Catholic ... univer­sities. Even non-Catholics would likely regard the [Application] as a tautology: that theologians advertised as Catholic actually teach 'authentic Catholic dcw­trine' and that a majority of, a Catholic university's trustee$ and faculty be Catholic as well. Prom the outcry this has provoked you might think the bishops had called for reinstating the rack... As former Notre Dame Provost James T. Burtchaell pointed out. "the same administrators howl­ing about autonomy submit with­out protest to authorities ranging from the NCM to the Department of Education, who tell them what they can and can­not do, on everything from hiring and admissions to curricula and how they run their basketball programs... All of which makes it hard to avoid the suspicion that what really bothers Catholic administrators is the fear not of 
censorship but of not being accepted by their col­leagues at secular cam­puses ... And do not parents who ... send their sons and daughters to Catholic ... univer­
sities precisely because they are Catholic have the 
right to expect that thflir chil­dren will get 
what they paid 
f. ?"
or. 
The dialogue over the next few months provides an opportunity for Notre Dame 
and other affected univer­sities to define their identity in 
a spirit of coop­eration. Perhaps we should recall 
Mother Teresa's advice to the Notre Dame class of 1986, 

that "We need to be humble like Mary to be able to say 'Yes' to God' to accept God's law. God's 
teaching as given to us by His Vicar on earth, the Holy Father and the Magisterium of tbe Church." 
Prof Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Wo hol\,ewor(( vet? Write a "Letter to the Editor"! of>s-erver.viewt, o ir,t.1 en d.erJ u 
-


page 12 Tuesday, August 29, 2000 
ALBUM REVIEW 
3 Doors Down plays more than just Kryptonite 
By CHRIS SCOTT Scene Mt1sic Fdiror 
I.islP11i11g to th1> radio for Pvcn a briPf' sm:ond this surnnwr allowPd for Llw ilwvitahlH possibilily of' h,•aring many of !ht• rww sounds trnvnling owr tlH\ airwaves. Onn of' llw 11111st popular o/' lht'sii rww sounds was that of' tile hand :-3 Doors I)own and tlwir fnishman proj!'tit, Tlw BPttt•r I.iii•. 
"KryptonitP." th(' first single off the album. was ,ilmost an instant hil, rruising to llw top of' Lim charL.; in onlv a fpw months. But listl'ning only to what w,L, play1\d ovtw tlw radio call rPquesting tlrn '.-3 Doors Down song "Kryptonite," it was not long lwforP locals bPg:111 to n•alizn that tlm ,.,rroup was morn than just an awrngn garag11 band. Prompted by tile !oral airplay of their songs and the huge attPmlance at lheir shows. ] Doors l lown was signed by Hnpublidl'nivorsal Hccords. 
/\mold. llarrell and Hoberts startnd the group in 1997 and it was during this time that the band found their nanrn. AftPr ('omplcting a gig in Alabama. they walked out and noticod the incompletn name of a building saying "Doors Dovvn.' Since the band membors numbered three 
at tlrn time, 
is a stark d,~nial or LIH\ I.run rP1wrtoir1~  "/ls nol really allematiue or metal or anything  the name ''.{ Doors Down' was devel­ 
ol' a  hot  rww  il 's rock 'n ·roll."  oped. Within  
band  in  tlw  a  year, they  
world ol' rock  gained  the  
n' roll.  Todd Harrel  talents  of  
3  Doors  3 Doors Down  Ilenderson  
Down  hails  who  was  
f  r  O  Ill  added to rein­ 
Escatawpa,  force  their  

MS and is composPd or singPr sound. The original drummer for Brad /\mold, rhythm/lnad gui­the band was actually Arnold, but tarists !\fatt Hoberts and Chris af'ler signing the record deal, llendcrson, bass guitarist Todd Lyles was added so that Arnold llarrnll and drummer Hichard could concentrate on vocals. Lyles, a rccnnl addition to the Senior member Todd Harrell band. explains the group's sound best, 
The 1-,rroup startnd out as a local "It's a r()(.:k 'n' roll band, straight snnsation, but whrm radio station up." llarrell explains. "It's not WCl'B in nearby Biloxi started really alternative or metal or any­rncciving phone call after phone thing -it's rock 'n' roll." 
Tlw album starts out with the successful pop/rock chart "Kryptonitn" and mows on to the sliglitly slower-paced track "Loser" The lyrics of this song relate the story of a rr.lationship gone wrong in which tho singer is convincPd that he is worth noth­ing. It is this that is pushing him, " ... dos(' to life's little 1idgc." Th.is song is alreacly going to be 3 Doors Down's second single release and is a more mellow song contradicting tl1P upbeat rhvthms of the first track. Next on tho album are the songs "Duck and Hun" and "Not Enough" which both deal with the issue of facing down adversity, as Arnold unfolds his own emoti()nat strug­gles through his lyrics, "The world may turn mo down, I won't turn away." Both of' these songs havfl great rock beats and har­mon ir: chorus lines. The sent.i­menta1 song "Re Like That"' details the dreams of a young man desiring to b!l the man Im sees on the big semen, and the dreams of a young girl who desires to have a place to call home. The lyrics of this song are great and complemented with a wonderfully slow and rhythmic beat that will most assuredly make this another successful hit for the group. The lyrics of the medium-paced "Life of My O"'m" details a man's desire to live on his own and make his own choic­es. The song starts out with a 

The Better Life 
3 Doors Down 
Republic/Universal 
Records 
Rating 

......'1 
medium rock bHat, but quickly jumps into a h(•avier t.onn as it 
passes into th,i chorus. 
Tlw more intense, "13Htter l.ifo," "Down Poison" and "By My Side" confront L'isues of' drug usn. These songs embody a more traditional hard-rock style with !wavier beats and rhythms. The song "Smack," while continuing the same hard-rock feel. is the antithesis of the prior three songs' theme of the stupidity involved with drug-use. The hard rock feel then continw:1s through the end of tho album with the final track "So I Need You." This song, however, seems to be a love song that unfortunately happened to get stuck with the wrong music, as the lyrics most repre­sent the sound of a ballad. The track is still a respectable track however. 

Tlw Betllw l.ifo is an nxlrPmnly good hard rock album with so111i) groat traditional rock ·11· roll bPats. I11 aclclilion to this is VPl'Y impressive lyric:-writing, all doni1 by the band itself. For true rock onthusiasts. Tlw Better Lifn would a great addition to any col­lection. l lowevcr, !'or the avcrag,• radio listnner, though Urn album starts out with a lot of promise driven by sonrn definite chart-top­pi ngs songs, tlrn much morn intense second half of the album could be a little intimidating. lnfact, the final string of songs, with such a morn definite hard rock feel, and nearly the exact same pace could almost bo mis­taken for the same song, but for those listeners who cmjoy a good rock band, 3 Doors Down can definitely be considnred one of the best newcomers of" the year. 
Simplistic show proves succe~ful for Pearl Jam 
By SAM DERHEIMER Scene Music Editor 
The crowd at tlrn Deer Creek Music Ampitheater in Noblesville, IN was bnginning to get antsy just before l'narl .Jam finally came onto stage. Sonic Youth had pow­1m•d tlmir way through a blistering set that lasted close to an hour, hut that was almost an hour before. Dusk had settlmt into evening. Every time a roadie came onto to stage. the crowd erupted in misguided cheers. A sold-out, die-hard crowd was getting rcstlflss, waiting without paticnc,\ on this warm August night to see the band they would follow to the end of the earth. t\nd then, they came out. 
Tlrn band wasted no limo, immediately picking up their instruments and ripping into "Corduroy," a crowd favorite. Without stopping, they muscled their way through song alter song, ttw set list including everything from old classics like "Animal," "Not For You," and "Black" to new material from Binaural such as "Insignificance" and "Light Years." 
Characteristicly vocal lead singer, Eddie Vedder, spoke little between songs. Less than a month since their first appearance since the Hoskilde tragedy, it was apparent that the experience still weighted heavily on the band's mind. In a poetic plea, Vedder reminded the crowd, "Life is short, beautiful, but short," then played "Throw Your Arms Around Me." an old Hunters and Collectors song the band has become notorious for playing, as if to bring the point home even morn. 
With a remarkably simplistic backdrop and little banter between songs, Pearl .Jam, Vedder, Mike Mccready and Stone Gossard on guitars, Jeff Ament on bass and former Soundgarden drummer Matt Cameron keeping beat, let the music speak for itc;;clf. The show lasted over two and a half hours as the band played twenty-seven songs in all. PJ rocked through heavy hits such as "Spin the Black 

A stripped down and laid back Pearl Jam tears through a set at a recent concert in Virgina Beach. Despite a lack of stage antics, crowds continue to sell out across the nation. 
Circle" and "Evenllow," in which Mccready thrashed out an extend­ed guitar solo that would have made even an occasional fan long for the return of 1992. At the same time, they also played their ballads with as much emotion and passion as could only be expected from one ol"the original giants of the Seattle-sound. "Nothing As it Seems," was one of' the show's real highlights. Played behind a mist of smoke and red light, the song attained a sort of' inde­scribable sombnr bnauty that could only be truly apprnciatnd in pnrson. 
The crowd had rnwived what it. wanted. Thny !ward nvnrything from the fif'tPPll minutH jam-s,•ssion v1•rsion of' "l{earvicw Mirror," rnminiscont of thosn from Tho Who and Loci Znpp!'lin, to now f'amous covPrs. s11rh as ''Crazy Mary" and "Hockin' in thc1 Frne \'\'orld,'" which the band usPd to dosn thn show. l'Parl .lam did not disappoint. Though 
Set List 
Aug. 18 
Deer Creek Ampitheater 
Corduroy Grievance Spin the 13lack Circle Dissident Brain of J. Animal Given to Fly Nolhing As It Seems Even Flow Pilot Lukin Light Years BettPrman Leatherman Not For You Black lnsignificancP {;o 
EIH'.01'1' Throw Your Arms Around M1• Do tliP Evolution Stal<' of LoVl' and Trust 
Crazy Mary 
l•:ldPrly Woman... 
La1-,t Kiss 
Hnarvinw 1\/lirror 
Sncond hJH'.orP llifTl'rPllCP llocki11' in tlw Frno World 

th1'n\ wen' l°Pw rock-star stage antics, Pearl .lam proV!'d why I.hey can bi, called the most prolific hand of tlw <JOs. and why they still sdl out hugo wmw1s JH'arly tPn yc~ars allnr tho rnlmLsn of their first album. 
Pnarl Jam rnl'k1•d. It is as simpln as that. From tlw campfire singalong version ol' "Last Kiss" to tlw rwar chaotic fury of' "Lukin," VPdd11r and company did not dis­appoint. lt was night ol' music, a night wlwn five! talnnl1\d musicians showed off I.he tnlll strnn1-,rth of t.hnir band. No choreographed stPps, no olaborato set. just an ama1.ing band and a full-on affront of unbnlievably good music. 



Tuesday, August 29, 2000 page 13 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Page finds true magic with Black Crowes 
Black Crowes with a new guitarist? Or 
By EMMETT MALLOY 
was it possibly the world's most expen­Scmc Music Critic 
sive r.over band (tickets were skimming 
Urn $100 range)'?
Partirnlnrly during its latter days, What took the stage that rainy night 
l.nd ZPppnlin was tho source of its in Chicago was a group of talented own problems. By creating an elabo­musicians who sounded more like the ralP. lav<'rnd sound in the studio, the rnal thing than the "real thing" did. pion1•c1:ing metal gods strug1:;led to Opening with a ferocious rendition of rnproducn t.lw mastery of its studio Wanton Day, Page noxt demonstratfid work in a live C'llvironment. Especially his six-string prowess with the thun­hampErPd and frustrated by the quar­derous guitar slide intro of l<'t's limitations in concert was guitar "CP!ehration Day". Within the fist lO m,wstro. Jimmy Page. With only the minutes of the show, the 56-yoar-old bat'killg of a bassist and a drur111ner. Page proved he was still the guitar Page ,,vas ov1)rburden!"d with both powerhouse that he was more than 20 rhythm and lpad guitar rpsponsibili­years ago. til's, and rarfdV in concert was he able However, Page would not have been to shin,, like ht\ did in the studio. able to take off on his solo flights with­
TwPnty years after drummer John out the help of Crowes guitarists Hich Bonham's death jand consequentially Robinson and Audlev Freed, who the end of Led Zeppelin). Page found together provided Page ·with the rhyth­ttw bll'ssing that ho was always look­ma.tic backbone that he could only ing for -a way to play Zeppelin in dream of back in Zeppelin. By laying concnrt. without sacrificing the intense down the sonic foundation, the Crowes punch ol' thP band's studio work. With guitarists gave the Zeppelin epics such former vocalist Robert Plant happily as !V's "Misty Mountain Hop" and enjoying a new lire in an oldies cover Physical Graffiti's "Ten Years Gone" band and former bassist John Paul the space they needed to breathe. Jones touring behind his first solo Crowes' kevboardist, Eddie Harsch album, Page hooked up in late 1999 also helped fill the group's sound with with the torchbearers of Southern some amazing licks on the organ. rock, Th<: Black Crowes. Basking in the Refusing to stand in Robert Plant's richness of two extra guitarists and a shadow, Crowes vocalist Chris knyboardist. Page was finally able to Robinson delivered such Zeppelin clas­prnsent Zeppelin classics in the ,full sics as "Heartbreaker" and "In My instrum,rntal arrangements they Time of Dying" in such a ma.nner that deserved. honored the originals 
Touring in support while making them his of the group's new Within the first ro own. Despite his Mick album. Live at the Jagger-ish hippie
minutes ofthe show, 
Greek, Jimmy Page & dances, Robinson was 
The Black Crowes the 56-year-old Page a respectful inter­
faced plenty of adver­proved he was still the preter of the Zeppelin sity even before step­catalogue. While at
guitar powerhouse that 
ping on stage at times sounding like a
he was more than 20
Chicago's New World dead ringer !'or Plant. Theater for the June years ago. Robinson sang with 24th opening night. the laid back, bluesy Caught in a driving attitude he's known rainstorm (the show was rumored to for with the Crowes. be canceled because of the weather). Later on in the show, Page graciously concertgocrs were all asking the same returned the favor to the Crowes by questions: Was it Zeppelin? Was it the stepping back and letting the Crowes 
UPCOMING CONCERTS 
South Bend 
Matchbox Twen-cy .JACC. 

Indianapolis 
HISS Conseco Sept. 9 
Christina Asuilera Deer Creek Sept. 19 
Tim McGraw and 
Faith Hill Conseco Sept. 22 J•mmy Pase Uve w•th 
The Black Crowes Deercreek Sept. 29 Alice Cooper Murat Th~u,ter Oct. I Dixie Chicks Conseco Oct,.22 
Chicago 
Tower of Power House of Blues Sept. 2 
Weezer Metro Sept. 3 
Eve6 Vic Theater Sepe. 1 
Wheatus Metro Sept. 8 
Barenaked Ladies UIC PaYUHon Sept, 24 
Tina Turner Uniied Center Oc-c, 4 
Bad ReUsion Riwiera Oct, 14 
Courtesy of ticketmaster.com 

roar through melodic classics like "Remedy" and "No Speak No Slave." Although a crowd pleaser. "She Talks To Angels," off the Crowes' debut album Shake Your Money Maker. was stripped of its acoustic integrity and instead given a strange dose of metal guitar. Furthermore, the group's cov­ers of old blues standards like "Woke Up This Morning" sounded out of place with the aural rock assault of Zeppelin material. 
Making sure that all Zepheads went home happy, Page led the group through the frenetic fingerwork of "Out On The Tiles," only to take them to Led Zeppelin heaven with a booming performance of the rock classic "Whole Lotta Love." The group's rendition was a note-for-note copy of album version, and it even featured the spacey sound effects during the bridge, which Page accomplished using some bizarre tech­niques and a metal rod. 
In an era in the music industry when nostalgia is very lucrative as well as equally embarrassing (KISS comes to mind), it is easy to see why critics and fans alike have been somewhat skepti­cal of the Page/Crowes tour. However, the opening performance in Chicago immediately repudiated such claims that the tour was a way for Page to cash in· on Zeppelin again. With one bandmate dead and the other two apa-· thetic towards a reunion. he refused to let Zeppelin live only through the CDs. The June 24th Page/Crowes show was a celebration of the Zeppelin's legacy, and if it was a preview of the rest of the tour (which ends in New York early October), Jimmy Page and The Black Crowes have already exceeded all expectations placed on them. 
1ta•·'10 -The Paper Route 
Br•an Wjlson • Brjan Wilson 
September 12 
The Presidents -Freaked Ou• and Small Jimj Hendrix -The Jimi Hendrix Experience 
Too Shor• • You Nasty Th,• Marvelous i -Ready Sex Go_ 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, August 29, 2000 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Abreu, Helton make Rockies crumble to Phillies, 3-2 
Associated Pr~•s 
Bobby Abreu hit. his third 
homer in two gamf!s and 
Culorado's Todd Ilelton got 
three hits to raise his average 
to .397 as tho Philadelphia 
Phillies beat the Rockies 3-2 
Monday. 
Jleltcrn's average wr.nt up three points. Ile singled in the first inning. f'lied out in the lhird, and doubled in the fifth and eighth innings. 
Abreu. batting .389 (14-for­:JG) since moving to the leadoff spot ninr. games ago. gave the Phillies a 2-0 lead in the third with his 22nd horner -a liner off the !'acing of tho upper deck in right field. 
!\breu hit a pair of homers. including a winning. insid1Hhc­park drive in the 10th in Sunday's 2-1 vic:tory ovf'f San Francisco. 
Hockies manager Buddy Bell began serving n two-game sus­pension for Axcessive arguing after his ejertion following a bench-clearing brawl against Atlanta last Tuesdav. Btrnch roach Toby llarrah managed the team in Bell's absence. 
Hobert Person (7-4) allowed one run and six hits in sAven innings. Ile struck out four and walked two. 
Mike Lieb(\rthal's broken-bat. bloop single gave thP Phillies a 1-0 lead in thr first. Doug Glanville singled. stole second and scort>d on LiPberthal's two­out hit. 
Masato Yoshii (5-14) allowed two runs and six hits in six innings. I !e matched a season­high with seven strikeouts and wa!kPd 01w. 
Yoshii helped himsPlf with an HBl single in the fourth that cut it to 2-1. Todd Walker led off with a double, moved to third on a single and scored on Yoshii's two-out liner to right. 
Mets 4, Astros 2 
Edgardo Alfonzo hit a three­run homer in the first inning and Glendon Rusch made it stand up as the New York Mets beat the Houston Astros moved into a first-place tie in the NL East. 
New York has won four of five and is a major league-best 30-15 since the All-Star brenk. Atlanta had held first exclusive­ly since April 26. 
Rusch (9-10) allowed solo homers to former Met Hoger Cedeno and Richard Hidalgo, but. pitc:hed around thre0 other extra-base hits. 
l!ouston's Tony Eusebio dou­bled to give him a team-record 24-game hitting streak. 
The Mets did all of the scor­ing thP.y needed on the first five pitc:hes against Brian Powell (1­1). Benny Agbayani singled to center on a 1-0 pitch and went to third when Derek Bell sin­gled on the next pitch to snap an O-for-21 stretch. 
Alfonzo then hit a 1-0 pitch into the seats in left center for his 17th homer and a 3-1 Mets lead. 
That's all Rusch would need. although he did pitch out of trouble a few times. lie left the bases loaded in the second inning and worked around two extra-base hits by Chris Truby. 
Husch stranded Truby after a leadol'f triple in the fourth. striking out Tim Bogar and Powell and getting a groundnut from Julio Lugo after Cedeno walked with two outs. Truby hit a one-out double in the sixth and was left at second. 
The left-hander allowed two 
runs and seven hits in seven innings, striking out seven. Mets starters, whose 4.22 ERA is the best in Lhe league. improved to 4-0 with a "I. 70 ERA over the last five games ­one turn through the rotation. 
Reds 6, Braves 3 
Cincinnati stunned Atlanta's 
Greg Maddux by scoring five 
runs in the first inning, and till­
in starter Ron Villone pitched 
the first complete game of his 
pro career for a victory that 
knocked the Braves into a tie 
for first in the NL East. 
The New York Mets defeated Houston 4-2, grabbing a share of the lead, which had been held exclusively by the Braves since April 26. 
Atlanta {78-53). trying to extend its already unprece­dented streak of division titles to nine, is only 13-13 in August and has lost four of its last fivA. The Reds stopped a seven­game losing streak at Turner Field dating to Aug. 6, 1998. 
Maddux (14-8) equaled his career high for most runs allowed in the first inning, the previous time coming a decade ago when he was an up-and­coming pitcher with the Chicago Cubs. Pukey Heese led off the game with a homer and the first six Cincinnati hitters reached. 
It could have been worse. too. Brian Jordan made a spectacu­lar catch in right field for the first out of the game. and cen­ter fielder Andruw Jones threw out Dmitri Young at the plate for the second out. 
Villone (9-7) made his l'i rst start since July 22 because Scott Williamson was placed on the 15-day disabled list before the game with a sore back. 
Villone, whose previous nine appearances had been in relief. had no trouble adapting his former role. 
The left-hander gave up only five hits, needing 112 pitches for the first complete game of' his eight-year profossional career. 
Heese hit the fourth pitch of the game in to tlrn left-field stands. the firsl time Maddux had surrendered a leadoff homer since Sept. 28. 1991. It would orily get worse for the four-time Cy Young winner. who has lm;t five or his last seven dflcisions. 
Cardinals 5, Marlins 2 
Will Clark's HBI triple sparked a four-run eighth inning and tho St. Louis Cardinals rallied past the Florida Marlins. 
Mike James (1-2) pitched a scoreless seventh for his first major league victory since 1997 with Anaheim. He combined with Rick Ankiel. Jason Christiansen and Dave Veres on a five-hitter. 
Veres pitched the ninth for his 23rd save in 28 chances for the NL Central leaders, who improved to 4-1 on their seven­game trip. 
Florida's A.J. Burnett hit his first big league homer and notched a career-high I 0 strikeouts. He departed with a 2-1 lead after giving up a lAnd­off double in the seventh to J.D. Drew, and the Cardinals then broke through against Armando Almanza (4-2). 
Clark tripled Drew home to tie the game, and Craig Paquette's RBI singlA put St. Louis ahead. Edgar RAnteria doubled in another run. and Mike Matheny followed with nn 
RBI single against Braden 
Looper. 
Matheny also drove in a run in the fif'th with his first triple in 212 NL games. Clark went :1­for-S and is batting .386 sin<:e being traded to the Cardinals on July 31. 
Burnett's homer came on a 3­2 pitch leading off tho third inning and traveled an nstimat­ed 385 feet. I le allowml seven hits and two runs in a duel with another hard-throwing young­ster, Ankiol. 
Giants 5, Pirates 4 
Russ Davis led olT tho ninth with his socond pinch-hit homer of the season and thA San Francisco Giants. despite playing some unaccustomed shaky defense, beat tlrn Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Davis hit a 1-0 pitch from reliever Scott Saut}rbcck (5-2) into the left-field seals f'or his sixth homer, helping the Giants to their 10th victory in 14 games and sending the Pirates their fifth consccutivn loss. 
Alan Embree (2-3) pitched a scoreless eighth inning for the victor and Hobb Non finished for his 31st save in 36 chances, his 18th in a row. 
The Pirates, who have the majors' worst record (52-77), lost their sixth in snven games and 14th in 18 gam11s. 
The Giants. who matched their largest lead of' tho soason at 3· 1/2 games in the NL West, Ind 3-0 in the first and 4-2 in tlrn second. but lost the lead as both stnrter Shawn Estes and their usually reliable defense had troublo snttfing down. 
After making two errors in 18 games. the Giants made two in two innings. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.Ill. to 3 r-lll. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.rn. Al classifieds rnusr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE STANFORD, AIR FORCE, BOSTON, Cheap. 654-0168 
99VW Beelle GLS, dk. blue. 5-spd manual trans, 6 CD changer, air alloy 16" wheels, 12, 800 miles. exc. cond. &16300. 219-258-4454. 
ND FOOTBALL TKTS 25H570 
Condo -townhouse 2 bdrms, 1 1/2 bath w/fireplace. All updated. Must see. $69,000. Call 219-291-8601. 
1 mile from ND in quiet neighbor­hood, 2 Bedroom very clean $69,500. Call 219-264-4966. 
BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL 
TICKETS. HOME & AWAY GAMES. (219)289-8048. 
WANTED 
The Early Childhood Development Centers are also looking tor volun­teers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending 2 hours a week reading children's books, building with blocks, and signing songs with children, please contact ECDC-ND at 631-3344 or ECDC-SMC at 284-4693. 
ALWAYS BUYING NEBRASKA 
271-9330 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M. -232-2378 P.M. · 288-2726 
NEED: Three tickets to Texas A&M for family. Call John, 4-2795 Looking to trade Grad student ticket book for Senior tickets to sit by friends. Will pay$$. Call 287-2433 
I need tickets to the Purdue game. Will pay top$. Call Chris at 4-3094. 
Need: 3 tix tor TX A&M, 2 tix tor Nebraska. Call Colleen 4-1146 
ATTENTION!! I am paying $212.50 each, tor NEBRASKA tick­ets. 219289-8048, 
WOULD LIKE TO BUY 3-5 TICK­ETS FOR ND-NE FOOTBALL GAME. PLEASE CALL 630-904­6418. 
N.D. RENTAL LAKEFRONTHOMEONMAG~ CIAN LAKE AVAILABLE WEEKLY, OR FOR WKNDS. 3 BDRMS, 1 1/2 BATHS,DECK,SCREENEDIN PORCH. THIS HOME JS.NICELY FURNISHED AND OVERLOOKS A BEAUTIFUL LAKE AND IS CLOSE TO INDIAN GOLF COURSE. ALSO IN THE AREA ARE MANY APPLE ORCHARDS READY FOR PICK­ING. THIS HOME WILL SLEEP 6. $350 WEEKENDS $850 WEEKLY 630-964-6620 616-424-3246 
In-Home B&B FB wknds · sleep up to 8 some w/tix NOTICES SKYDIVE Training Students for 35 Years 1 Hour North of South Bend GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS, INC. 1-800-351 -6617 

,www.greatlakessydivers.com 
PERSONAL 
I NEED YOUR HELP! 

l'M A '92 ND GRAD AND LOT MY YEARBOOK IN A FLOOD. IF YOU KNOW ANYONE WHO HAS A '92 YEARBOOK AND WOULD NOT 
....  VICTORY TKTS BUY-SELL.TRADE ND FOOTBALL 232=0964 www. victorylickels. corn 6 NEBRASKA TIX (219)232-5484 Beautiful brass bed, queen size. with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235. River Isle exc. condo on the nver in Mishawaka. Beautiful view of the river from living room. dining room, kitchen, and bdrm. Also has swim­ming pool. pier. sauna, exercise room and clubhouse. Call Frank 299-1909 Jack 257-t 141/674-6593 BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911  BUSINESS MAN NEEDS Nebraska tickets or season G.A only. 277-1659 ND FOOTBALL TKTS 289-9280 VICTORY TKTS BUY-SELL.TRADE ND FOOTBALL 232-0964 www.victorytickets.com EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­MENT CENTER PAID & VOLUN­TEER OPPORTUNITIES Earn money and build resume experience with delightful young children. The Early Childhood Developmenl Centers at Saint Mary's College and the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame, are currently accepting applications from college students for part lime employment positions. The hours vary. including MWF 8:00-9:00 a.m. and MWF  Otficials needed for Baseball, Slow and Fast Pitch Softball, and Flag Football. This is a great opportunity to earn good money. Contact the RecSports office (Peter Shoop or Jeff Walker_ @631-6100, or stop by the office in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center today. You can also e-mail us at recsport@nd.edu ND prof and wife seek babysitter in our home T-TH 9AM-1 PM (later if possible). 3 great kids, aged 7 mos to 5 yrs. Experience/references required. Please call 631-3654 ore-mail rnelssner.1@nd.edu. NEED 2 NEBRASKA TICKETS WILL PAY $100 FOR EACH CALL MATT AT 4-3319 SPRINGBREAK 2001 Hiring On-Campus Reps SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, GO FREE!!!  Need 4 Gas for Stanford Chris 634=4751 Beeley.1@nd.edu $30 to $45 in two to three hours work. The American Tailgater Company is a mail order company specializing in tailgating equipment. Need people to distribute flyers before all or most home Notre Dame football games Check us out at www.AmericanTailgater.com. E­mail Charlie at Ndflyer@AmericanTailgater.com Need tix -75 Grad need 2-4 GA for Neb and/Pur. Tony (714)523-3686. Need 1 T A&M ticket PJice nego­tiable x1755 James FOR RENT SOUTH BEND LODGING In-home  2 mi N of ND 219-277-4759 2 BDRM APTS. FOR 2000-01. ALSO LEASING FOR 2001-02. DAVE 291-2209 ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE ADN CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com 232-2595 Apartment for rent ND football weekends. 2 mi. from campus. Parking pass included. Sleeps five. Call 243-0791 for info. 2BR, 2nd fir. Apt, 525/mo. Along St. Joe River Incl. Water/SecSystITrash 288-2654 or 288-2788 1 mile from ND in quiet neighbor­hood, 2 Bedroom very clean. $69, 500 Call 219-264=4966  MIND PARTING WITH IT, PLEASE CALL ME AT 830-772-5956 OR E-MAIL AT esquivefe@mindspring.com Thank you, Cristina Ortiz To Laura, the "Vixen of Vicksburg:" You and Ashley were "T-Rlfic'" fun in Chicago! E-mail me sometime... russ@updraft.com Happy 21st Anne K!!I NO more worries! Love Nikki Cass ­thank god the "strike" is over. Brett will be happy about that one. So will Janel. Actually, we all are. Good thing I was never otlicially bannedl Just from talking, anyway.  
TICKET MART BUY/SELL/TRADE ALL GAMES 271-9330 ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. -232-2378 P M · 288-2726  11:00a.m. -1:30p.m. lfyouare interested in applying, please con­tact Kari Alford, Program Director at EC DC-SMC. at 284-4693 or Thayer Kramer, Program Director at ECDC-ND al 631-3344 for more information and an application.  Student Travel Services America's #1 Student Tour Operator Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas, Europe, Florida 1-800-648-4849 www.gospringbreak.com  B&B lodging for football games & ND-SMC events. Close to campus. Breakfast incl. Call 219-243-2628 3 bdrm apt. home at 616 E. Howard St. Available immediately. $500 ea. Sec. Dep. of &250 ea. 289-9484  That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­9487.  I like to play with fire risking your life for the paper especially classifieds! BURN BABY BURN.  

. 

TONIGHTI 
1:00 PM -9:00 PM JOYCE CENTER FIElDHOUSE 
INTERTHROUGHGATE3 
LISTING OF PARTICIPATING GROUPS CAN BE FOUND ON-LINE AT: www.nd.edu/-sao/an/ 
.,, •nl m onl •" ml m nil n1 •nl m 
,,. ml ,,. WI .,. >nl "' wl no 1nl ,,. '" ml "' ,.,1 .,, ,,.1 "' n•I '" "'I '" 
,,. m I "' .,, I "' m I m '"I ,,. ,,, I 11, "' '"I "' "'I "' '"I "' ""I "' ,,.1 m
,1, snl "' mJ •"' n1I 11,-ml Jlf 11,1 u, 
,u ,111 ,1,. ml tJJ 1111 1u 2211 2is 1111 111 
"' ,,.1 '" .,.I .,. ,,,1 '" :u>I m ,,.1 '" 
ilJ J!OI J1l 4JOI 4IJ JIOI JIJ 2>11 2IJ IJOI IIJ 
612, '"I ,12 GI I 412 JJI I JIJ aJI I JIJ UI I Ill ,11 ml ,11 aal . ll tlll JU ml 211 1121 m ilo UJI SIG oJI 41D n1I i10 ml 110 1J1I 111 
.., ,,.1 ,., °'I .., »•I ,.. w1 ,., 1"1 '" 
... ,,,, ,.. .,,, ... ,,,, JOI WI ,.. '"I ,.. .., ml .., .,., "" "'I ,., ml ,., u•I m · "' ml ,.. 4171 .,. ml ,.. n1I ,.. •»I ,,.'°' ,111 ,os <0:al "°' »•I ml 20, 1nl
:11» UtJ 
404
... '"I ,.. .,,1 ml ,.. »•I ,.. "'I •04 
'" , .. 1 ... -• .., .... ,., ,... ,.. .... ,., '°2 5411 J 50J 4411 _ M)l MIi _ Jal 1411 _ * HII 101 
~ .., ~ m ffl 
I•
... 
I• 
"' 
nl I• I• "I I• 
20 Jf II 11 16 IS l4 11 11 11 lD 9 I 1 i 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, August 29, 2000 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Indians move ahead in wild card race with win over Rangers 
.. 
Bartolo Colon allowed five hits over eight innings as the Cleveland Indians beat the Texas Hangers 5-2 Monday. 
The Indians moved a half­game ahead of Hoston in the ever-changing AL wild card race. 
Colon {l 2-8) struck out six and walked two. I-le blanked the Rangers until the eighth. when Mikc Lamb hit a two-run homer. 
Bob Wickman pitched the ninth for his seventh save in nine chances since being trad­ed from Milwaukee to Cloveland. 
The Hangers have lost five of six and 12 of 16. 
Kenny Lofton went 3-for-5 and Roberto Alomar homered for the Indians. 16-8 since Aug. 2. 
Lofton and Omar Vizquel led off tho game with singles against Kenny Hogers (11-12). Manny Hamirez hit an HBI sin­gle and Travis Fryman drove in another run with a ground­out. 
J\lomar led off the third with his 16th homer The Indians went on to load lhe bases and Einar Diaz's infield single made it 4-0. 
Cleveland made it 5-0 in the eighth off reliever Darwin C:ubillan. Lofton doubled, went to third on Vizquel's single. and scor(\d when center field­er Gabe Kapler overthrew thA plate for an error. 
Hill llaselman led off the Tf1xas eighth with a single and Lamb followed with his sixth homer. 
Devil Rays 5, Red Sox 2 
Mike DiFclicc hit a tiebreak­ing, two-run doubln in a three-
run eighth inning Monday night as Bryan Rekar pitched the Tampa Bay Devil Rays over the Boston Red Sox. 
Rekar (5-9) allowed two runs and eight hits in eight innings to win for the first time in six starts since beating Kansas City on July 28. Hoberto Hernandez finished for his 26th save in 32 chances. 
With the score 2-all in the eighth, Fred McGriff drew a one-out walk off Hipolito Pichardo (5-3). Bobby Smith struck out, McGriff took third on Aubrey Huff's single and DiFelice doubled to right-cen­ter fif~ld. Jason Tyner added an RBI single. 
Jason Varitek and Brian Daubach hit solo homers for the Red Sox, who lost their second straight. 
McGriff, who leads the Devil Ravs with 94 RBIs, had a run­scoring single in the first. giv­ing him nine RBIs in seven games. 
Varitek opened the third with his first homer since July 

31. Two battus later. Daubach put the Bed Sox up 2-1 with his 20th homer. one shy of his total as a rookie last year. 
Tampa Bay tied it 2-2 in the seventh on doubles by Aubrey Huff and Tyner. 
Heel Sox starter Torno Ohka, who had won his previous three starts, allowed two runs and five hits in 6 2-3 innings. 
Yankees 9, Mariners 1 
Dave Justice and Jose Canseco each had three RBI to lead the New York over the Seattle Mariners. The Yankees have won four in a row and 
six of the last seven games, and are five games ahead of Boston in the AL East. 
Seattle has lost four of five and 13 of the last 15 games, but remain 1 1/2 ahead of Oakland in the AL West. 
Roger Clemens (11-6) pitched seven shutout innings. He gave up only five hits, with four walks and seven strike­outs. Clemens is 7-0 in 12 starts since coming off the dis­abled list. 
The Yankees scored three runs to start the game. A pair of walks and a single by Derek Jeter loaded the bases, but Justice grounded into a run­scoring double play. Paul Abbott didn't quite make it out of the woods as he yielded a two-run homer to Canseco. 
Abbott held the Yankees scoreless from there until the fifth. Luis Polonia singled a run in for a 4-0 lead. 
In the eighth, an error on Alex Rodriguez opened the door for New York to score four runs. Justice hit a two­run double and Canseco drove a run in with a sacrifice l1y. Luis Sojo plated Justice with a base hit for an 8-0 lead. 
Justice brought another run home with a fielder's choice in the ninth. 
Hickey Henderson kept the Mariners from being shutout with a sacrifice fly in the bot­tom of the ninth. 
Abbott (8-5) pitched seven innings, giving up eight runs on six hits. He walked four and fanned only one. 
Blue Jays 4, Angels 2 
Carlos Delgado hit his American League leading 39th home run in the Toronto Blue 
Jays' win over the Anaheim Angels. The Jays have won three straight and eight of their last 11 games. Toronto is one game behind Cleveland in the wild card race. The Angels have dropped two of three and are four games behind the Mariners for the AL West lead and three in back of the Indians for the wild card. 
Esteban Loaiza (8-9) went seven innings and allowed only one earned run for the win. lie gave up seven hits and two walks with five strike­outs. 
Billy Koch threw the ninth for his 32nd save. 
The Blue Jays got on the board in the second with a solo home run by Delgado. Jose Cruz went deep in the third for a 2-0 lead. 
Anaheim scored once in the bottom of the third. Benji Molina singled and Kevin Stocker reached on a bunt base hit. Loiaza's throwing error allowed Molina to move to third, and he scored on the double play grounder by Darin Erstad. 
Toronto extended the lead to 3-1 in the fifth after a double by Tony Batista and a single from Mickey Morandini. 
Both teams added solo homers in the sixth to make it a 4-2 game. Dave Martinez homered for Toronto and Tim Salmon for Anaheim. 
Hamon Ortiz (4-SJ threw eight innings in taking the loss. He gave up four runs on five hits. He walked no one and struck out three. 
Athletics 3, White Sox 0 
Tim Hudson pitched a one­hit shutout to lead the Oakland 

over the Chicago White Sox in the first of a three-game series at the Coliseum. The A's have won three of their last five games and trail Seattle by 1 1/2 games for first place in the American League West. The A's trail Cleveland by a half­game for the AL wild card playoff berth. 
The White Sox have lost three of five, but remain in control of the AL Central with a seven-game lead. 
lludson (14-6) struck out eight and walked one. After Frank Thomas singled with one out in the fourth inning. Hudson recorded 17 straight outs to finish the ballgame. The only other White Sox to reach base was Paul Konerko, who walked in the third inning. 
lludson threw a total of 106 pitches and needed only nine pitches in the ninth to finish the game and earn his first major league shutout and his sAcond complete game. 
Mike Stanley provided the offense with two HBI for Oakland. Eric Chav,~z drove in a run and scored a run in the victory. 
Jim Parque started for Chicago and suffered his fourth loss in his last five deci­sions. Parque (10-6) allowed three runs on five hits with fivo strikeouts and six walks. 
Parque walked Chavez, Handy Velarde and Tern•nce Long. and Stanley singled with two outs in the fifth inning to score Chavez and Velarde for a 2-0 Oakland lead. 
Chavez tripled after a one­out single by Adam Piatt to increase the A's lead to 3-0 in the sixth inning. 
~t-:/l}_ ,,,•·1aewweea ••· 
International Study Programs
('. 
HAIR MODELS NEEDED
e) 
For Monday'sTraining Program by Licensed Professionals Call for infonnation 
289-5080 
One mile from Cam us 
I I 
I·------------------------------------· 
: Have you thought about : I : I teaching Religion and : I 
I I 
: I becoming a Catechist? : I 

I I 
: I 1¦ 11 !I 
I: ~ I = INFORMATION MEETING FOR 
I • Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? I : • Can you give one-two hours: ofyour time each week? : 
SANTIAGO, CHILE
I '"Do you welcome th11 challenge to articulate and share yourfaith? ¦ I • Would you liktt to be a valuable asset to a lccal parish? ¦ : • Would you like to work towards caJechist certification? : 
With Bridget Green 
I I I I I I 
Student Returnees 
: If you can answer .YES. to any or all of these questions, : I come find out more about being a Religion Teacher. I 
I I 
Wednesday August 30, 2000 
: I Call ,John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 II I I 
318 DeBartolo
I I 
I 
I Important Information Meeting: 
4:45 PM

I 
I Wednesday, August 30, 5:00-6:00 P.M. I I Foster Room of LaFortune Student Center 
APPLICATION DEADLINE:
I 
I 
October 1, 2000 for Spring 2001
I 
I 
I 
I 
I
·------------------------------------·'--------------------------------------J 

OOtfues<day, August 29, 2(1JOO The Obser~,r~ PAiD~DVERTISEMENT page 17, 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
I 
August 28-September 18 
103 Hesburgh Library Freshmen Retreat #30 Sign-up Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill, Pasquerilla East, St. Edward's, Morrissey, Walsh, and Zahm 
Monday-Friday, August 28-September I I03 Hesburgh Library Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #62 Sign-up 
Tuesday,August 29, 7:00 p.m. IACC Activities Night 
Wednesday,August 30, 10:00 p.m. Walsh Hall Chapel Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Sunday.September 3, 1 :00 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel RCIA: Information Sessions for Candidates and Sponsors 
Monday,September 4, 10:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Eucharistic Minister Workshop 
Monday,September 4, 8:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Acolyte Workshop 

Mark Your Calendar 
Ministries al the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Eucharistic Minister Workshop: Monday, September 4th @ 10 p.m. Sunday, September 10th@ 2:30 p.m. 
Lector Workshop: Wednesday, September 6th @ 10 p.m. Sunday, September 10th@ 8 p.m. 
Acolyte Workshop: 
Monday, September 4th @ 8:30 p.m. 
All workshops will be held in the Basilica For more info, call Steve Camilleri@ 631-6282 

112 Bodin Hall 631-5242 103 Hesburgh library 631-7800 
email ministry.1@nd.edu web www.nd.edu/~ ministry 
coming soon Coleman-Morse Center 
r------------clip&save~--------------. 
Who 10 call@ 
GGJwJ[;)rJE f]JdOOdOOC?v 
Needdoo{JGabou1•••1 £ooCk3for: 
Notre Dame Encounter Sr. Sue Bruno, OSF @ Hesburgh Freshman Retreat 

I 
Senior Retreat Emmaus Faith sharin & Seri ture stud Confirmation Fr. ohn Conle Badin RCIA (becoming Catholic) Tami Schmitz @ Badin I IMarriage Preparation or Relationships John & Sylvia Dillon or Chris Etzel @ Badin j Teach religion to youth in local parishes John & Sylvia Dillon@ BadinI learning to Talk About Race retreat Priscilla Wong @ Badin Ministry to lesbian/Gay students Fr. Tom Doyle, CSC or Tami Schmitz @ BadinI Planning music for my wedding Dr. Gail Walton or Andrew McShane @ Badin I liturgical/Choir resources for residence halls Steve Warner @ BadinI Liturgical Choir Dr. Gail Walton @ Badin Folk Choir Steve Warner @ Badin Women's Liturgical Choir Andrew McShane @ Badin. Celebration Choir or Handbell Choir Karen Kirner @ Badin 
Coro Primavera Fr. Pat Neary @Hesburgh Voices of Faith or Rejoice Gospel Choir Chandra Johnson @631-3748I Ministries at the Basilica Steve Camilleri @ 1-6282 
African American Student Ministry Chandra Johnson @631-3748 Black Catholic Mass Chandra Johnson @631-3748 Latino Student Ministry & Latino Mass Fr. Tom Bednar @ Hesbur h 
I

I Asian American Student Minist Priscilla Won Badin 
Cha lain to ROTC students Fr. Richard Warner, (SC @631-8051 
Sr. Sue Bruno, OSF @631-5740 
~D::)illl] C1a 1..s94,9 
~~ ---..~­
[lilJitll-•~.cui 
~
........­
. Office Badin Hall Hours 8:00am -5:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Mon-Thur 8:00 a.m. -9:00p.m. Fri 8:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m.
L-------------------------------~
II] Information Session 
lnterest·ed in Becoming Catholic? 

RCIA Information Session for all interested Candidates and Sponsors 
Sunday, September 3 from 1-2 p.m. 
Chapel of the Holy Cross (Keenan/Stanford). 
For more info, contact Tami Schmitz at 1-3016. 
Prayer Service 
Students of all denominations gather for prayer, music and praise. 
Every Wednesday 
10 p.m. lnte~tlWmi 

t .,yer
Walsh Hall Chapel 
-,~-~­
I 
page 18
I 
I I 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
USC knocks Penn State out of top 25 
Associated P rcss 
Penn Statn lost more than the Kickoff Classic over tho Wf'ek1\1HJ: The Nittany Lions am out of Tlui Associated Press Top 2 5 collnge football poll for tlrn f'irst timo sincn the end or lhc 11JIJ2 snason. 
Soundly 
beaten by 
USC 29-5 
o n Sunday, Penn State saw its streak of being ranked ln 119 co11secutive polls end Monday with the release of the AP's first rngular-snason ratings. 
The Nittany Lions. who had the fourth-longest run of con­secutive rankings behind Nebraska. Florida Slate and Florida, entored the game ranked 22nd. 
Thn last time the Lions were unranked was in lhe. final poll of the 1992 season, when they finished 7-5 aftm· a loss to Stanford in the Blockbuster Bowl. 
Nebraska and Florida State remained 1-2 in this week's poll as the top 11 were unchanged from the presea­son poll. 
The Cornhuskers, who open their season Saturday against San Josn State. collected 35 first-place votes and 1,728 points from the 71 sports writers and broadcasters on ilrn pannl. 
The Seminoles, 29-J win­ners ovnr BYU in the Pigskin Classic, had :rn f'irst-place votes and 1,723 points. 
Alabama, which opens its season Saturday at UCL/\, was third with three first­place voles and 1.577 points. followed by No. 4 Wisrnnsin and No. 5 Miami. 

The Badgers. who had one first-place vote, and the Hurricanes open their sea­sons Thursday night. 
Wiscon$in plays Western Michigan, while Miami goes agaim,t McNecse State. 
Michigan was No. 6, fol­lowed by No. 7 Texas (two first-place votes), No. 8 Kansas State, No. 9 Florida and No. 10 Georgia. K-State opened with a 27-7 win over Iowa in the Eddie Robinson Classic. 
Virginia Tech, which had its game against Georgia Tech postponed by violent thunder­storms and lightning, was No, 
11. followed by No. 12 USC (up three spots), No. 13 Tennessee, No. 14 Washington, No. 15 Purdue, No. 16 Ohio State. No. 17 Clemson, No. 18 Mississippi, No, 19 Oklahoma and No. 20 TCU. 
Illinois was No. 21, followed by No. 22 Southern Mississippi, No. 23 Colorado, No. 24 Michigan State and No. 25 Texas A&M. 
The Aggies, the only new team in the poll. open at Notre Dame on Saturday. 
Nebraska's streak of con­secutive poll appearances is up to 310, followed by Florida State's 184 and Florida's 178. 
In the USA Today/ESPN coaches poll. the top five are 
Nebraska.  Florida State.  
Alabama,  Mir,higan  and  
Wisconsin.  


$$ I need to buy Nebraska vs. Notre Dame fooball tickets, $$ Home Phone: (562)598-3949 2LI Hr Voice Mail: (213) 487-4161  


CSC Vehicle Driver Certification Sessions 
August 31, September 12, September 26 (attend one) 
Center for Social Concerns -Room 124 (7-8 pm) 
Student Recertification Required Each Year (facult)' and staff encouraged to attend) 
Vehicle runs will begin Monday, September 4 Priority in scheduling will be given to CSC Service Groups and other groups doing volunteer service 
Van line: 1-7847 or e-mail cscvans. l@nd.edu 
The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, August 29, 2000 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Bruins ready to take on Crimson 
Associated Press 
The UCLA Bruins took a big drop last year, 
Fifth-year coach 8 ob Toledo admits there was a chemistry problem. and believes the current Bruins will be much better. 
Trouble is, it might not he evident immediately. 
"We're playing the No. 3 team in the country," Toledo said Monday, rPl'erring to the ing to Miami. knocking UCLA out of the 1998 national championship picture, and then to Wisconsin in the l1os11 Bowl. 
Last season was a disaster. starting wi_th the handi· capped parking sc:andal that unfolded in July, and contin­uing with injury after injury and loss after loss. 
The Bruins wound up 2-6 in the Pac-10 and 4-7 overall. "We're trying to recover from last year." Tolr.do said. " T h c y were a 

season-opener 
"We're playing the No. 3 y o u n g
against 
t c a m ,

team in the country. In
Alabama at the 
they got

Rose Bowl on my opinion, they're the 
beat up,

Saturday. "In 
best team we've played they had 
my opinion. 
c h e rn ­

since I've been at
they're the best 
i s t r y

team we've UCLA." 
prob•

played since 
I e m s .

I've been at 
Bob Toledo That's
UCLA. 
be h i n d

UCUl head coach
"Our improve­
ment might not show as much as it is. I hope it does. I'm excited about our future; hopefully, it's going to be now." 
In addition to Alabama. the Bruins entertain Fresno State and No. 6 Michigan before beginning their Pac-10 schedule. 
All three played in bowl games last year, as did five conference foes, and UCLA's 11 opponents c:ombined for an 81-52 record last season. 
The Bruins went 10-2 in 1997 and 1998, and played in New Year's Day bowl games following each season. 
They won a school-record 20 straight games before los­
us. This 
is anoth· er team. I can sense (the chemistry) is considerably better than a year ago." 
Toledo said he didn't real­ize the depth of the chemistry problem at the time, but added, "It was obvious as the season went on that the handicapped parking prob­lem had a great effect on the team." 
There were several other problems. among them a total lack of experience at the quarterback position enter­ing the year, and a defense that ranked among the nation's poorest statistically. allowing 444.6 yards per game. 

Sophomore quarterback 
Cory Paus, who started seven 
games as a freshman bdore 
breaking his left collarbone, 
beat out sophomore Ryan 
Mc:Cann for tho starting job 
in preseason practicll this 
month. 
"A year ago, we didn't 
know who the quarterbac:k 
was going to be," Toledo 
said. "It's diffr.rent this year," · The injury to Paus was one of an inordinate number tho Bruins suffered last year, when 45 players started at 
least one game. 
It's been a differnnt story in 
prnseason drills. 
"We had two players 
injured in camp with 
sprained anklns," Toledo 
said. "We <:amn out of' camp 
with no ma,i or in,i u r i es. l 
don't think there are too 
many teams that. can say 
that." 
The players who sprained 
their ankles are both starters 
-guard Oscar Cabrera and 
dllf'ensive lineman Knn 
Kocher. 
Cabrera is expected t.o start. 
against Alabama, while 
Kocher's availability is 
unc!lrtain. 
Toledo believes the def'ensn 
will be better because seven 
starters return from last sea­
son, and dnf'ensivn backs 
Jason Bell and Marques 
Anderson. starters in 1998 
who redshirtcd last year. am 
also back. 
"I believe we've got llrn 
best ~roup c:r def'r.nsivc play.: 
ers smce I ve been. here, 
Toledo said. "We've got a 
young team, but it's now an 
experienced team." 

Tuesday, Augmr 29, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Football 
continued from page 24 
Jerry Wisnc. In the process, the (rish offense suffered. 
While the Irish ranked 26 in 
the nation in rushing offense at 181.5 yards per game in 1999, those numb1ns are heavily skewed due to running romps against Kansas and Oklahoma. 
The lrisli offense recorded :rn turnovrrs and allowed a dismal 18 quarterback sacks for 125 yards. 
This ynar. tlrn Irish arc determined to turn things around. 
"I think we've Pmplrnsized a lol of pass protection. espe­cially in the past couple weeks," Black said. "We're coming into our own niche as l'ar as pass protection." 
Now some of the more expc­rienred players on the squad. the mnmbers of the-offensive Jim~ hnliern their game time will be111d'it th(' rest of the team. 
"It all starts in tlHJ front." Vollnrs said. "Jr the 0-linc plays wnll. everyone else doesn't have to play as well." 
One of the key differences after playing together for an entire season is a greater team rapport. 
"This vear, we all have a genuine· respect for each other," Black said. "Last year, we wrre just friends, but this year. we really respect each other." 
Despite the improvements, things are not all rosy on the offensive line. 
Black and Jones both dealt with torn ligaments over the past year and Vollers suffered from a neck injury. 
[n addition. it is always a 
Cktl 

concern putting a player in the starting lineup who has never played a down at the Division I level. 
"Any time you go into the game with a new center and a new quarterback, you worry about ball mechanics and exchanges," Davie said. "But Jeff Faine's a talented player and so is Arnaz Battle. At 
some point it has to be their first game." 
Notre Dame's offensive line will get its first test of the sea­son Saturday against a Texas A&M defense powered by seniors Roylin Bradley and Rocky Bernard, who tally 55 tackles for losses and 27 quarterback sacks between them. 

Welco1nes the Oass of2004. 
Outreachisthe gayandlesbianstudent orgmization at Notre Dame. We offer supportand socialactivities to gay and lesbian students and their friends. 
We invite you to our nextmeeting Thursday, August 31 at 8:30 
For more rnform.ation go to: www.outreachnd.org 
or contact us at: mfo@outreachnd.org 
GOLF 

Garcia outplays Woods in "Battle at Bighorn" 
Associated Press 
PALM DESERT, Calif. 
Sergio Garcia finally found the secrnt to beating Tiger Woods -play him at night. 
Garcia outplayed Woods under the lights Monday, upsetting the world's hest player 1-up as golf returned to prime time in the "Battle at Bighorn." 
The win in the made-for­television event won't show up on any official lists, but it was worth $1.1 million and a ton of pride for Garcia, who has struggled this year while Woods dom-

And the darker it got. the better Garcia played. 
Garcia made eight birdies, five on the back nine. against a pair of bogeys for what would have been a 66. Woods didn't make a bogey, but man­aged only five birdies, includ­ing the conceded putt on the final hole. for a 67. 
"I was a little nervous on the first hole," Garcia said. "After that, l start£1d calming down a little bit." 
Garcia grew increasingly animated as he played nearly flawless down the stretch. while Woods appeared tired and trying to keep his focus in 
a surreal set­

inated the ting in the
''.Al least I gave Sergio a
sport, win­desert foot­
ning three run for his money. He hills. 
majors. had to make some putts The eve­Garcia ning sta,rted
to earn it. " 
made a 35-well for footer for Woods, who birdie on the Tiger Woods got out in 
16th hole to professional golfer front quickly 
go ahead for good, and the tiring Woods could not answer on the final two holes. 
Woods put it within 4 feet oh the final hole for a possible birdie to tie, but Garcia sunk his 10-footer for a birdie of his own before Woods even had a chance. 
"At least I gave Sergio a run for his money," Woods said. "He had to make some putts to earn it.". 
Woods flew across country earlier in the day and was fighting a cold or the flu after a streak of eight days that saw him win the PGA Championship and the NEC Invitational. 
"I'm so cold. I'm freezing," Woods said to caddie Steve Williams as he waited to putt on the 17th hole on a warm night in the desert. 
A day after Woods finished ofT the field in near darkness to win the NEC Invitational in Akron, Ohio, he and Garcia needed portable lights mount­ed on cranes to finish the final five holes at the Bighorn Gold Club. 
as spectators 

b e g a n scrambling for position on an overcast but hot and humid late afternoon in the Santa Rosa foothills. Garcia missed the first green and made bogey after chipping past the pin, while Woods made a rou­tine par. 
But, with Woods making only one birdie on the front side, Garcia got back to even after a birdie on the eighth hole. They remained that way after a front nine in which nei­ther played particularly well, both shooting 1-under 35s. 
Woods flew to California after doing a corporate clinic in Ohio on Monday morning. Both he and Garcia went out before the televised match to play a few holes on the Canyons course at Bighorn. 
"Another million," one fan yelled at Woods as he walked down the fairway. 
Woods was clearly the attraction for an estimated 7,000 fans, who shouted out at him and ran from hole to hole to get prime viewing spots. 
B RUN O 'S 

All-You-Can-Eat Dinner Buffet For Students ONLY 
$7.00 
273-3890 
"STILL THE BEST" 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, August 29, 2000 
NFL 
Police arrest Dillon for assault Sherman pegs Favre 
found Dillon's 23-year-old 1998 in Seattle for investiga­
. Bengals' running 
wife bleeding from the mouth tion of drunken driving. 
to start against Jets 
back misses in f'ront of the house. He was later charged with 
practice Monday 
A•sociated Pres• 
CINCINNATI, Oh. 
Cincinnati lkngals running 
back Corey Dillon missnd 11racticn Monday l'ollowing his Wl)PkPnd arr1!st in a Seattln suburb after his wife was 
assaultnd. 
Dillon, 25, also did not toll 
llrn tnam about his arrHst 
Saturday. !'layers wPni off on 
Saturday and Sunday, and 
Dillon told the t1iam lrn would 
Im late rnturning. 
"Ile had called and his 
ag1~nt had callPd. but tlrn 
information they relayed was 
not consistent with what I'm 
hottring," gcn!'ral manager 
Mikn Brown said l'rom home 
Monday night. "I just heard 
the report !about tlw arrest) 
mit1utus ago. I havn nothing to 
say concPrning that until I 
know about il." 
l'olicfl said tlrn form,)r Univnrsity of Washington standout was arrostncl Saturday art1m10on aftpr ol'li­cnrs rnspondPd to a domnstir. violPnce complaint at a Fmleral Way, Wash., address. 
When of"licPrs arrived, they 
Dillon was in the driveway, police said. 
Dillon was booked into the King County jail for investiga­tion of fourth-degree assault, but was released later Saturday. 
Policn said the couple was in a car when Dillon struck his wife, who was driving. She got out of the car and walked one block to the address wheni police were sum­moned. 
It was not immediately dP.ar who lived at the house. 
Agnnt Marvin Demof'f didn't return a telephone message Monday night. 
The Bengals had been told that Dillon would be back for practice on Tuesday, but that wm, befon~ they lt:arned of the arrest. 
"I was told he would bn returning tomorrow," Brown said Monday night. "Whether that is the case, it is unclear to me at this moment." 
Dillon was rnpeatcdly in troubln as a juvenile, prompt­ing him to slip lo the second round in the 1997 draft. I!e's been arrest!icl twice while with tlrn Bengals. 
Ile was arrested in March 
driving under the innucncc, negligent driving and driving with a suspended license. 
In June l 998, he pleaded guilty to lesser charges o[' negligent driving and driving with a suspended license. 
Earlier this month. Dillon ended a holdout and agreed to a one-year contract report­edly worth $:3 million. As a rostricted free agent, Dillon had threatened to miss the season's first 10 games and play only in the last six so that he could become an unre­stricted frnp agent for next season. 
In his second preseason game last Friday in Cincinnati, Dillon rushed six times for 45 yards in a 21-13 loss to Detroit. 
The Bengals have a first­week bye and open the season Sept. 10 against Cleveland. 
Dillon was the leading rush­er !'or the 13cngals the last thrno years, going over 1,000 yards each season. 
He broke Jim Brown's rook­ie rushing record in 1997 when he picked up 246 yards in a victory ov11r Tennessee. 
He holds six school records at Washington. 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 

Packers quarl.erhack Brett Favre, who missed Green Bay's last throe prcs<rnson games with tendinitis in his r i g h t CI b () w. should start the season 
o p e n e r against the Jets. 
"I have h i g h 

Favre

expecta­tions that he will play in tlrn game," Par.kers coach Mike Sherman said Monday. "II' he doesn't, it will be a shock to me. There are no indicators at this time that says ho won't be ablo to play. .Nothing is showing us ho won't be Brett Favre again when we play on Sunday." 
The decision to rest Favre l'or the three preseason con­tests ended his string of starts that stretched back 173 prn­season, regular season and post.season games. lie took 
over as starter thron games into the 1992 season and has held the job evor siner,. 
If he opons against the .lots at Lambeau Field it will be his 126th consocutive rngular­scason start. 
Favre has tested the arm in nir.ent days, throwing 50 pass­es Sunday and throwing again Monday. lie was not 1ixpnctcd to throw in workouts Tunsday. 
Of'fensivo coordinator Tom Hosslcy expects Favre to throw closn to full spncd 
Wedfl(isday. 
Sherman said Favro likely will experiencn some soreness after using thn arm, hut that is expected. 
Both Favre and backup Matt llassolbcck will takn practice snaps with tlw first-team of'fnnse. 
"There's absolutely no con­cern about Favrr,," Packers general manag1-1r Hon Wolf' said. "I havn to lrnli«we what nverybody says is true is tnw -that he's going to go play." 
Hunning back Dorsey l.1wnns appPars to havo no chancn of playing against Now York. Levens missed the last two games with knne tendinitis. 
Interested in working for the sports department? Call 1-4543. 

I 
I 
i• 

Tuesday, August 29, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
White 
continued from page24 
us to get a coach in here for our experienced team." 
White's quirk. professional search yielded an experienced coach who actually wants to coach at Notre Dame. Brey has made U abundantly clear that Im has no desirn to leave Notre 
Dame. 
Wadsworth's search, howev­er, brought a coach who saw Notre Dame as only a stepping stonr to the job he rf'ally want­nd -'.'forth Carolina. Doherty madi, it very clear to the admin­istration that he would leave for Carolina and even included a clause in his contract giving himself' permission to leave for Carnlina. Wadsworth and the administration. dRsperate for a basketball couch after a diflicult search. agreed to those stipula­tions. 
ft is doubtful that White would have been so short-sighted as to agree lo those terms. In his hir­ing of Brey. White showed an ability to anticipate future events and plan accordingly. 
"In this business you always have short lists," he said. "God forbid somflone wHl go out for a job this afternoon and suffer a heart attack. Sometimes pro­grams go into periods where they don't generate the success they need to generate. Lots of ~ different reasons cause coach­ing searches. People who have done this well, and I am still try­ing lo learn, always have a short list." 
A.II the credit for the new pro­fessionalism exuded by the ath­letic department cannot go to White alone. Father Edward Malloy should also be applauded for cutting the bureaucratic red tape that the executive vice president wrapped around the athletic department. By report­ing directly to Ma.lloy, White is given the trust and responsibili­ty to make the best decisions for the athletic department and the University. 
The fast-paced world that is college athletics necessitates White's level of responsibility 
and authority to act. 
"If you are· going to loso a dean, you might have eight months to search. So you ran seL up a national search with a committee," he said about the 

KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 

time frame for finding a coach. 
Former Notre Dame athletic director Michael Wadsworth resigned from his position last
"But if, say you lose a basketball 
February, leaving University president Edward Malloy free to hire Kevin White.
coach, you going to have to 
SS I need to buy Nebraska vs. Notre Dame fooball tickets. $$ 
Home Phone: 
(562)598-3949 
24 Hr Voice Mail: 
(213) 487-4161 
EMPLOYMENT
ATHLETIC TRAINING 
unge Monitor 
& SPORTS MEDICINE 
Do you find yourself up late studying? 
There will be a meeting for any Notre 
Get paid for it!H 
work a lot quicker and you had track record of success at any future athletic decisions ­better not be starting from Tulane and Arizona State including a very important deci­square one." ensure that Notre Dame won't sion he may face after a Nov. 17 
White's responsibility and be starting from square one in game in New Jersey. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
It's a connected world. Do your share. 
For 30 ways to help the environment, write Earth Share,3400 International Dr., NW Suite 2K (AD4), Washington, De 20008. 

Earth Share. 

Dame Freshmen students interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting will be held on Monday, September 4, at 7:30 p.m. in the Stadium Athletic Training Center. (Gate E -Football Stadium) 
Work for the Student Activities Office as a 
24 Hour Lounge Monitor 
Shifts: Sun-Wed 2am-Sam Thur 2am-7am, Fri-Sat 2am-Sam 
1-2 shifts per week 
Applications outside Student Actvities, Room 315 LaFortune. 
Support 
The College Fund. 
Call 1-800-332-UNCF. 
The College Fund!UNCF 
~ AmlD<I is a tr:nibk thing ID w.aslC. 
~

THE UNIVERSITY OfNOTRE DAME 
;~ CJ & Company
l . \ ~ 
2n-292s
COACHES' CAR WASH 
\!) I OO . Walk-Ins
THURSDAY, AUGUST 31ST • 11:00AM -1:00PM GOLD flElD PARKING LOT, WEST OF ECK BAS_E_B_AU STADIUM 
V Welcome 
ENTER OFF EDISON ROAD 
~ 
HAIR AND TANN,ING
\.~--,-,."'\ 
(C[LOCC~ lrOWlE~ SQUArRllE 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS
$5.00 DONATION 
3 Miles North of
PROCEEDS BENEFIT THE UNITED WAY . ( -=-\ 
ND-St. Mary's
OF ST. JOSEPH COUNTY 
51400 SR 933 South Bend HAIR CUTS $lQ.00
~i 
1i,lllifiJJ 
TANNING SPECIALS--NEW BEDS 
EYEBROW WAXING
"MEET THE COACHES AND GET ACLEAN CAR" 
PERMS and COLOR
SPONSORED BY THE UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT Of ATHLETICS 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, August 29, 2000 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
si11c1• !Im otlrnr f'our J\11-Anwricans now pliLy in thn NB;\. The collegiate squad inc-luchis stPllar players likf' DukP's Shanc BattiPr, Iowa State's .Jamal Ti 11s ltiy and Maryland's Tt!rnn ce Morris. 
Murphy is llw only Big Easl player on thn Sc•loct Team. but confornncn foe St. John's is niprpsontnd by !mad coach Mikn .Jarvis, who leads thn collegians into action. 
llow1\Ycr outstanding the collegiate talent may be. row nxpnct tho USA l\fon's Snlncl Toam to givn Droarn Tnnm Ill a clmllt•11g.-. 
Murphy is jt1st looking forward to thi> chanc11 lo go up against the most famous guys on the hardwood tlrnsn days -from young supPrstars lik<' Vinet! C:arttir and K1~vin (;arnett to vot­1iran athl1it11s such as i\lonzo Mourning and l;ary Payton. 
'Tm really nxr.itP.d about playing tho 

2000 USA BASKETBALL MEN'S SELECT TEAM 
ame 
J Shane Battier F Duke 

d
It looks like the perfect d. The only problem is, it's a p. 
It's dyslexia. Areading disability where some kids confuse their d's with p's, b's and q's. Bu~ wiih htlp most of these kids can go on to do ..,,..u in school. Call 1-888-GRS-MIND nOVl There's 110 reason to be held back. 
~DClt.-.0 ¦4C~ 
'•"-•""'lf'Jl_, 
Dream Team," Murphy. a preseason candidate for the John Woodon /\ward. said. "I think it's good for me to go to llawaii and work on my gamr>." 
While Murphy passed up his opportu­nity to ,illmp into Urn NH/\ Draft this sum nrnr, th at decision al lowed him entry into this ganrn. 
None of' the playns clral't!~d in June arc playing !'or either the U.SA Men's Select Team or the Dream Team. 
While Murphy prnpanid lo compete against top American athlettis. Graves gave his passport a workout. Ile playtid for a NIT All-Stars team that toured northern Italy for two weoks in August. 
"Playing with the NIT All-Stars gave n11~ a time to get away," Graves said. "When you get with new guys, you don't know what they're going to do on thn court. No matter how good your tf'ammates are, it's good to go up against new guys." 
The squad. madn up of some of the best ath!Ptcs from both the Prnseason and Postsoason National Invitation Tn11r-namnnts, included several ath­lctus from the Big East Conference. 
Illinois 
Kansas 
N. Carolina Stanford Ohio State Maryland Notre Dame Michigan State Iowa State 
~~~• 
·'Arizona 
Graves was joined by Sr.ton Hall back-up point guard Ty Shine and St. John's swing­man lleggie Jessie. 
"This is def'­in ite ly a leg up for me," Graves said of the chance to take on international competition. 
The rest of the Fighting Irish didn't let dust gath­er on their basketball shoes either. All returning players but sophomore forward Jere Macura, who played with 
Cory Bradford Nick Collison Joe Forte Casey Jacobson Ken Johnson Terence Morris Troy Murphy Jason Richardson Jamal Tinsley Jason Williams Michael Wright 
G F G G C F F G/F G G F 
KEVIN DALUM/The Observer Junior forward Troy Murphy, shown here against Providence College, traveled to Hawaii this week to play on the USA Basketball Men's Select Team. 
the Croatian national team this sum­ning the national championship, hon­mer, spent at least part of their sum­estly," Graves said of Notre Dame's mers at Notre Dame getting ready for potential. "We're so close as a team. the 2000-01 season. We're so deep as a team. The team's 
"I think this team's capable of win-just got to peak at the right time." 
Notre Dame/Saint Marv'sColleue Equestrian Team 

Will be having an informational meeting on Thursday, August 31 at 5:30 PM in 222 Hesburgh Library 
(near the Computer Clusters). Please bring your insurance card and checkbook. VISIT OUR BOOTH AT ACTIVITY NIGHT! 

Co-Rec -6 on 6* 
*Minimum of Two Females on the Court at all Times 
Reg1ster a Team 1n Advance at RecSports 
Deadli.ne: Wednesday, August 30 at 6:00 PM 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Tuesday, August 29, 2000 The Observer . TODAY 
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 
ADVANCED COMPVT~ 
CLAS~OOM FULL OF 
WORKSTATION: 
SLEEPING STUDENTS: 
$25 THOUSAND DOLLARS 
PRICaESS 

BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
WATCHIN<?i IT TO KEEP
_.-,""""'-.. 
WHAT E"ER HEAR THE  MOM'S MA\c:1NG,  PA1GtE, YOU'VE  ScooT  TRY NO'T To  
ARE '\'OU l:)CPRESS1or-1,  YEAH, HER TOFU RAVIOLI  HA.D SoME  o"ER A  BLINK WHEl'I  
DOING? "p., WATCHED POT  WtiY'? Foll DINNER J'UST  PRETTY LAME  LtTT\.E.  I Do.  
NE'iER  AS SOON AS THIS  IDEAS, BUT  I  
\((} / 801LS"?  WATER'S READY, So I'M(  THIS...  

THAT FROM HAPPENING. 
I 
page 23 TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


Tonight at 7, Totally Shocking Videos presents, 'When Cheerleaders Attack IV." 
CROSSWORD 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
:+:::+:-..I 24 Cream of the crop H-:+::::+:;,.t 25 Start hammering =+,,,....,,-+,,,.... 26 Carter of sitcoms 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
51 Validate, businesswise 58 Resinous substance 59 Ruin of a statue, perhaps 60 Tennessee 1ootballer 61 Wapiti 62 Live 63 Sonneteer's Muse 
DOWN 1 I.R.S. job applicant, 
maybe 2 Owns 3 Tee preceder 4 Sched. locale 5 Confiscation 6 Hawaiian skirt 
material 7 Top 10, e.g. 8 "Birth 
Nation.­9 Actress 
MacGraw 10 Revelatory 11 Be able to buy 
some wheels 12 Simple writing 13 Like a ewer 18 ·-~-Fallin 
Love" 22 Refinable rock 23 Object of a 
Latin prayer 

Puzzle by Richard SIivestri 
27 Make a rustling sound 28 Pint-sized 
30 Armistice 32 Spoils of war 34 Buffalo hockey 
player 35 Spirited horse 37 Rich soil 38 Concept 40 Church dignitary 41 When a show is 
broadcast 43 Citrus drink 44 It may be read 
Notre Dame. IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
45 Stroll 53 Night that "Miami Vice" 
46 Reef material was on: Abbr.
47 Candidate of 54 Christmas buy 
1992 and '96 55Call _day
49 Sound like a 
snake 56 Betrayer 52 CBS competitor 57 L-P filler 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
Happy Birthday: You may be confused about what you should focus on. 1his will be a difficult year for you to pick and choose. Try to use your intuition by following the path that comes easiest even if it isn't the one you would choose first. You'll be surprised by the outcome if you learn to move with the current instead of against it. Your numbers: 5, 13, 19, 27, 35, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
There will be lots of activity, such as family gatherings and special moments with those you don't see that often. This is not the time to bring up past annoyances. Forget the past and enjoy the present. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll find yourself doing a lot of last-minute running about. Try to organize yourself carefully so that you don't forget any little details. Make sure you stick to the budget you set for yourself. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't overspend on the festivities. Find out if there is anything you can do to help an older relative prepare for the holidays. Your good deeds will be looked upon kindly. 00 
CANCER Oune 21•July 22): You should re-evaluate your personal relationship. Overindulgence may be a problem if you are both trying to avoid the existing problems. Don't do things that will encourage escapism. 00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Pick up last-minute items that will complete your festive outfit. Make some changes that will enhance your looks. Get together with friends for an entertaining but not too expensive 

Birthday Baby: You will use your great imagination to fulfill your dreams, hopes and wishes throughout your life. You will keep busy at all times to make the most out of your life. Your feelings run deep. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.c:om, astromate.com.) 
10 1999 Unlvemal P"'9S Syruilcate 
EUGENIA LAST 

evening. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It's time to finish your decorating and plan activities that will keep the chil­dren in your life busy. Pace yourself carefully; you're likely to become exhausted. 000 
LIBRA (Sepl 23-Ocl 22): You've been so busy that your relationship has suffered. You need to spend soo,e quality time alone with your mate. The uncertainties that have been plagu­ing you must be addressed. 000 
SCORPIO (Ocl 23-Nov. 21): VJSit friends or relatives who can't 1·oin you on Christmas day. You'! be happy you did when you realize how much joy you have brought them. Much can be learned from the wisdom of others. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be overindulgent if you don't restrict yourself. Don't spend too much on children or entertain­ment. You need to budget yourself if you don't want to suffer financially. 
00 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Your emotions will be difficult to control. Sudden changes of heart will cause disruptions in your home. You may want to take some time to sort out your problems before you make changes. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be careful how you handle friends and relatives. They may take things the wrong way. If you have to travel, take your time. Problems with authority fi~res are likely if you drink and drive. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Don't take on unreasonable financial obligations. It is best to work on yourself, not others. Happiness will be a direct result of your own actions. 000 
ACROSS 1 Game of kings and queens 6 Show snide 
satisfaction 11 Act like 14 Artificial jewelry 15 Winchester, for 
one 16 Lobster Diavolo 17 Pounce on some mariners' 
gear 19 In favor of 20 Gusto 21 Off the leash 23 Where 
Woodstock can be found 27 Used a teaspoon 29 Changes 30 Interlaced 
31 Card catalogue listing 32 Fetch 33 Pompous person 36 List ender 37 Really bad 38 "_ first you don't .. ." 39 Kind of room 40 Bowwow 41 Hacienda brick 42 Black belt activity 44 Capital of South Dakota 45 Military school 
47 Celebrated Mardi Gras, in a way 
48 6 
49 Maintained 
50 Victoria's Secret 
purchase 

Losing ground 

With their loss to the Trojans, Joe Paterno's Nittany Lions drop out ofthe top 2 5 for the .first time since 1992. 
page 18

PORTS 


O
THE 
page 24 BSERVER Tuesday, August 29, 2000 
--====-=-=-=======~==============~====================================================================:..:-_:-:..:-=-=-.:.:--:__::­
FOOTBALL 
Veteran offensive line ready for opener 
. All but one has seen action as a 
.. 
starter 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Spom Editor 
Aftur a lacklustnr p1,rfor­mancu in llw 1<JIJ9 season. Notru Damn's offensive line cannot wait to show Irish
... 
fans that it's rnady to rumbln. 
"We've been licking our chops waiting for this season lll kick around," sm1ior right tackle Kurt Vo!lers said. "l.ast year was a l,iarning year. to say tlw lNtst. I think we've really had a strong off­season." 
Thn dynamics of tlrn offen­sive line have rhangcd drasti­cally ov1ir the past year. 
While last year's offonsive linP squad foaturnd only onn player with a earner start to his namP in John Mcrandi, this ynar's crew is just the oppositfl. Evnry player has started at least t.hrnc games for the Irish with the nxcep­tion of' center fofT Fain1\, who has never s1if'11 game action at Notre Dame, fifth-year sPniors .lim Jonns and Mik() Candy have each started ten or more games. left tack1!1 .Jordan Black has started nine and Vollers has started th refl. 
"We have a lot morn matu­rity on tlw ofl'l>nsivn line this year," lwad coach Bob Davie said. "Wn have an awful lot of players who have started and played befon•." 
Last year's offonsivP line struggled to adjust to tho graduation of kny vnt..-rans Mike Hosnnthal. Luke Petitgout, Tim Hidd1H and 
see FOOTBALL/page 19 
MEN 's BASKETBALL 
Murphy, Graves take game global in off-season 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associa1c Sports Editor 
Instead of taking a breather from basketball this summnr. 'fotrn Dame's junior forwards Troy Murphy and David (iravns decided to .split up and take their game global. 
After spending the first part of the summer on cam­pus for summer school and working out wilh tlrn Irish, Murphy went west to Hawaii. while Graves head­
ed east to play in Italy. Murphy will be going up 
Murphy, American power for­w a r d • made two trips to the 
A I o h a 
State. 
The fir,;t trek was in e a r I y August to pn.rticipate in the Pete 
a 6-foot-10 All­aga_inst the best of the best 
"The NBA players are the best in the world. I've grown up watching them. and now I'm going to play against them." 
Troy Murphy 
junior forward 
-not only college players but pros as well. Ile was select­ed as one of 12 colle­gians to play on the USA Men's Select 
Team. 
Newell Hig Man Camp. On his second 
The Select Team will take trip, on the USA Basketball 
Men's Senior National Team, or Dream Team, 
Saturday in Honolulu.  in  a  
match-up televised  on  NBC  
at 7 p.m.  

It will offer one last bout. of' co mpctition for the Dream Team prior to head­ing to Sydney, Australia, for the Olympic Games. 
"The NBA players are the best in the world," Murphy said. 'Tve grown up watch­ing them, and now I'm going to play against them." 
Murphy highlights the 
see IRISH/page 22 

Irish will fare better with White 
Aller years or Michal:! Wadsworth's inept rnign as ath­letic director, Kevin While has alrna<ly brought an air of com­pctenr,1i and profossionulism to 
the depart­
ment in his short time in the posi­tion. 
White, 
howfwnr, 
claims nothing has 


rhangnrl. Mike Connolly 
"l don't want to reinvent 
Outside

the 
looking in 

whmil," he 
said about 
his goals 
for tlrn athletic department. 
VVhitl! may not nnnd to rPin­vent the whnel, but hn did lrnvn to pump the tirn. fix thn broken axle and oil Urn gnars bPl'ore the athletic department could run smoothly agai11. 
With tlrn quick, profossional and somewhat secretivn hiring of basketball coach Mikn Brey this July, White showed that he will run the athletic dnpartment effoctively. 
When Wadsworth launchml his search for a basketball coach following thn "rnsigna­tion" of John MacLeod, lw taught a class in how not to run an athletic department. From tlrn firing or l\focLnod to tlrn tong, drawn out and public search for a basketba!I coach. the search for a new basketball coach was a public rotations nightmare f'or the University. The bureaucratic red tape hanging over Wadsworth's head from the nxocutivn vim prnsident may have hinderPd his search but overall the process was sloppy and poorly executed. 
The hiring ol' Brey in .July. howrwer. had IHHW of' thns1• problems. White anticipated llw need for a new basketball coach bdoni Matt Doherty's resignation and had already developnd a list of' possible can­didates. By the time Whit<i had Dol1Prty's ofTicial resignation, he had narrowml his list to threo possible canc!idatns. The speed mid socrccy of this process was impressivn. Within three days of' Doh1irty's depar­ture. Bniy was in place as lllf' new basketball coach. 
"I didn't sp,md a lot oftinrn thinking about the speed ol' the decision," White sa.id. "Tlwrn was such a sense of urgency for 
see WHITE/page 21 

Volleyball vs. New Mexico Volleyball 
vs, Pairftclc.l Friday, 9 p.m. at Alma Tournament 
Cross CountryFriday, 4 p.m. Sept. 1-2 
SPORTS at 
at Valparaiso Inv.ATA 
Sept. 9, TBA 
vs. Tulsa vs. Texas A&M vs. Alma Friday, 7:30 p.m. Saturday, 12 p.rn. Sept. 4, 4 pm.
GLANCE 



