
free as a bird 
'Waterboy' gets wave of complaints
Britain ruled that former Chilean dictator 
The Notre Dame community responds 
Friday
Augusto Pinochet was unfit to stand trial for 
to a student's actions during Wednesday's 

human rights abuses. 
basketball game against Syracuse. 

MARCH 3, 
News . page 7 
Viewpoint . page 10-11 

2000 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXX:111 NO. 96 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Gernerd to lead class of 200 I, Moscona wins 2003 race 
By JASON McFARLEY i'iews Writer 
/\!though the 2001 and 2003 tick­ets or narhe! Grrnrrd and Brian Mosrnna both earned wins with 57 percent of the vote in Thursday's class council run-off dections, voter turnout from each dass varied sig­niticantlv. 
In th~ 2001 Plcction. Gernercl ddcated th<~ Elliot Nelson ticket :i7.5 to 41.2 perrent. Gernerd will snrve as president for the 2000-01 term. while running mates vice president Jen Caswell. sec:rctary .Judson Penton and treasurer B.J. Kloska complete the elected rouncil. 
Earning 57.2 percent of the class of 2003 vote. Moscona emerged the victor over tlrn Trip Foley ticket. which garnerPd 42.0 percent of the 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Asso~iatc News Editor 

Whim the hockey season ends for the East Coast hochy league, l\1obile Mysticks player. former Notre Dame hockey player and 1999 Notre Dame graduate Benoit Cotnoir will be taking the road less traveled. 
During his hiatus from hockey, Cotnoir was deciding how to spend his summer and found that spending it working in a traditional summer job in an office was not for him. Instead. Cotnoir will jump on a bike and embark on a 3,600 mile journey across the United States from Seattle to Washington, O.C. as a participant in Bike Aid. 
Cotnoir. a native of Quebec, Canada, said his f'amily was initially suprisPd by his summer plans. 
'"My dad was like, "What? You aren't going to be earning money this summer?" Cotnoir said. 
His father worried about Cotnoir's future. 
"I want to go to graduate school eventually and need to earn money for that." Cotnoir said. "My mom was vote. Completing the Moscona ticket are vice president Libby Bishop, secretary .'\lison Troy and treasurer Nick Mastronardi. 
But while both races featured similar winning pArcentages. nearly twice as many freshman as juniors voted. 
According to official run-off results. 59.5 percent of all freshmen voted in the 2003 election Thursday, representing a total turnout of 1155 first-year students. Just 38.4 percent of the class of 2001 voted, a total of' 718 juniors. 
Amanda Dovidio, election commit­tee member. was pleased with Thursday's turnout 
"Overall, turnout was good, espe­dally for the freshman class. The juniors were a little behind, but 
see ELECTION/page 6 



,ELECTION RESULTS 
~~~Rachel Gernerd 5B% 
II) g
~No Elliot Nelson 42% 
~C"I ~Brian Moscona 5B% 
11>0 
ll>o
~ND Trip Foley 42% 
JOE MUELLER/The Observer 




Former ND hockey player to bike across the nation 
more concerned with the safety aspect because initially she thought I was going to be doing this alone." 
"I explained to her that I will be with a group of people and now she is OK with the idea. Though one of the challenges of this for me is quieting my dad." 
Cotnoir will join a group of over 50 indi­viduals from around the world who will 


leave from either Seattle, Portland or San Francisco to travel to Washington, D.C. 
The trip will take over nine weeks. Cotnoir will leave from Seattle in a group of 15. 
OesignPd to raise awareness about social issues in the U.S. and abroad, Bike Aid participants must raise $3600 to par­ticipate. The money goes toward logistics of the trip, community service projects the cyclists will take part in throughout the trip and international organizations and national grassroots projects supported by JustAct -the organization sponsoring Bike Aid and the cyclists. 
The community service aspect of the endeavor is what initially interested him. said Cotnoir. During the trip, the cyclists 
ride six days a week averaging 75 miles a day and perform community service in various locations on the seventh day of the week. 
"Well, on the seventh day, God rested so on the seventh day of the week there will be a community ser­vice project set up for the group," Cotnoir said. 
"What WP will be doing will depend on the needs of the commu­nity. It may be painting a barn or helping at a food bank." 
An economics major while at Notre Dame, Cotnoir became inter­ested in service work following the summer after his junior year at Notre Oame. 
"The NDCIB [now SIBC] offered internships abroad to students and I 
see COTNOIR/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, March 3, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A Proud Parent 

Standing outside Lhe Juniper Hoad doors of Knott Hall. I said goodbye to my parents in August 1996. I cried. they cried. I thought I knew why the tears were falling: We wouldn't share a house anymore, or meals or the car. That was sad. And scary. 
To me, a bouncy freshman still reveling in high sr,hool memories, living on my own was 
as new as the crisp, sky blue sheets I toted in white plastic: stacking blocks. For the first time ever. I'd live without my parents. I'd survive because Notre Dame would step in as surrogate parent -com­plete with rules and regu­lations. 
That September, l began giving my Thursday nights to The Observer. A 17­year-old freshman. I didn't sacrifice Coach's or The "Backer like the editors 
who oversaw my work did. Those die-hards -who slept on Diet Coke-stained 


Michelle Krupa 
editor in chief 

carpets and survived on quarter dogs -wel­comed me regardless of my age. 
As r worked through The Observer's ranks, these editors treated me like an adult, capa­ble of taking care of myself and their beloved paper. Tossed into a cesspool of responsibili­ty. I was expected to act like an adult -to behave professionally. LO ask questions when they arose; in return, I could expect answers in any situation. for any reason, at any time. 
With lots of guidance, I faced tough assign­ments, Diet Coke and horriblP hot dogs. I traded school for work. When my fellow employees thought I was ready. 1got promot­ed. I thought I needed more time, more expe­rience. They believed in me. 
In the mean time, Notre Dame administra­tors acted like stodgy parents, treating me and other students like children incapable of maturing. Time after time, they refused to lis­ten to rational arguments strong enough to force rhanges in University policies. Somehow. students recognized intelligence and maturity in each other while Notre Dame remained a blind parent. Somflhow. my friends and co-workers acknowledged my personal growth as lhe University ignored il. 
My mom and dad have said that when they left me at schoul, they cried because they rec­ognized that I'd grown up. They cried tears of pride and joy. knowing l finally could be treated like an adult. I didn't think I'd under­stand that feeling until my child par,ked for college. I was wrong. 
Today is "unofficially" my last day as editor of The Observer, and I'm sure I'll cry. Months ago, I thought tears of sadness would fall, reminding-mfl of all I leave at 024 South Dining Hall. If I do shed a tear, though. it will be because I am so proud of those of you who will answer the 3 a.m. phone calls in coming years. 
To the University, you are students and. thus, are children. But you know better. You see that in reality, students are adults, pro­fessionals and compassionate people. If you continue to recognize this in everyone who walks through the door, you will be like the best kind of mom or dad -the one who, like mine, guides a child, embraces his or her • accomplishments and is overwhelmed with emotion when that child finally is ready to face life's challenges as an ad ult. 
And when you leave, you will feel like a proud parent, too. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Erin Piroutek  Mike Vanegas  
Maribel Morey  Graphics  
Nicole Haddad  Joe Mueller  
Sports  Production  
Kevin Berchou  Noah Amstadter  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Angela Campos  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday exec-pr during exam .md v:u:..ttion periods. The Ohserver is .1 member of rhe Associ,1fed Press. All reproducrion righrs ;.1re reserved. 

THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Student government seeks co-education 
Friday, March 6, 1970 

The Notre Dame student government prepared to initaite co-education by meeting with the administration. Student Body President Tom Thrasher identified the "establish­ment of an all girls dorm on campus by the Fall of 1971 as reasonable and attainable. If this plan is a success, the establishment of a coed dorm. possibly Flanner or Grace, would occur the following Fall," said ThrashPr. 
Attractiveness survey reportedly a rumor 
Thursday, March 3, 1988 The notion that Notre Dame is the second-best campus in America to find good-looking men was only popular opin­ion. "There's no truth to that rumor as far as I know." said Kevin Loud. editor of Playgirl magazine. Playboy also denied the rumor. but male students still hoped that the rumor was true. A resident of Grace Hall hung a ban­ner thanking Playboy for the supposed ranking. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 


Yale murder suspect appears on TV 
Former Yale lecturer James Van de Velde, the only publicly identified sus­p()ct in lhe Dec. 4. 1998 murder or Yale student Suzanne Jovin. main­tained his innocence during his first interview on network television Wednesday night. 
Van de Velde, who was .Jnvin's the­sis advisor, said police have found no evidence to incriminate him. "Nothing has been revealed to link me to this crime, and nothing ever will," said Van de Velde. who has granted few interviews since Jovin's death. 
Jovin's murder is unc of only two out of the 15 murders committed in New Haven in 1998 that remain unsolved, according to the New Haven Police Dopartment. 
In a December press conference marking the one-year anniversary of her death. Police Chid Melvin Wearing said the list of suspects, ini­

y
...
~ 
tially numbering 15, had dropped to "more than five" or "more than ten." According to the report aired Thurday night, New Haven Police have signifi­cantly narrowrd the pool of' suspects since then. 
Van de Veldc is the only named sus­pect in the crime. But Van de Vclde's attorney, David Grudberg, said Wednesday Van de Velde should be regarded as innocent until proven 
guilty. 
U. Wisconsin groups respond to racist fliers 
MADISON. Wis. 
Two differnnt sets or racist fliers have appeared in several University of Wisconsin-Madison campus build­ings this past week. One flier details an incident ignored by the media, tho authors of the Dier claim, concerning a "beautiful, innor,ent. young boy" who was dragged to death by a black male on Feb. 22 in Independence, Mo. The !lier also claims U.S. Justice Department crime statistics say that "blacks are 2.500 percent more likely to commit interracial crimes." According to the Independence Police Department, Jake Robel was killed during the hijacking of his moth­er's car by Kim Davis, who is black. Jlowever, officials said this incident was a random hijacking not based on race. The other flier made claims that slavery was a legitimate resource for plantations, while promoting several other racist ideas. "I felt frustrated and dis­hoartencd when I saw these lliers," said the diversity chair of the Associated Students of Madison, David Muhammad, "I am really concerned. [This] campus is becoming a scary place." 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather,. forecast for daytime conditions and high temperature, 
r/  '.H  
Friday  {)­ 48  27  
Saturday  t ~ rt55  37  
Sunday  ~  59  42  
Monday  ~r62  44  
Tues_day  ..  J / 9, 62  45  

f}·· \\'"'"'-..,..~.. /~-'-:../ 



4,9,~9.~8 {) ~ u 
Showers T•storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
"Jim told the police right from the beginning that he was home alone watching TV." Grudberg said. "In 15 months the police have not found one shrnd of evidenr,e to dispute that." 
ABC reported that Jovin had been frustrated by Van de Velde's trnat­ment of her senior thesis in the weeks leading up to her death. Family and l'riends characterized her as being "angry" and "near tears" because Van de Veldc had not responded to her first drall. 
But on ".20/20," Van de Velde denied any negligence in the matter, saying only that she might have bern anxiety­ridden due to the impending deadlinr. 
Ilegardless. he said it would not make sense for him to murder her simply because she was angry with him. "I don't understand how it trans­lates into a motive for me to murder her," he said. 

Student develops mutant strain of bacteria in U. Texas lab 
AUSTIN, Texas 

New girne research could validate a University of Texas at Austin graduate student's claim to the development of mutant bacteria that lives off of a deadly amino acid. Jamie Bacher, a molecular biolo­gy graduate student. is conducting gene research to prove that E. coli bacteria hfl developed in a UT labo­ratory in 1998 is a mutant living off of a diet that should have killed it. "I think I'm finally onto some­thing and will hopefully be able to prove it once and for all," said Bacher, a researcher working under Andrew Ellington. associate professor of' chemical and biochemistry. Bacher began to examine E. coli's genes for mutations that would prove the bacteria was truly living off of the deadly amino acid. "I chose genes that I thought for one reason or the other were likely to have changed ii' the organism evolved," Bacher said. Bacher said he has examinPd i:ight E coli genes so far, and mutations appeared in two genes of the E. coli that were fed the harmful amino acid. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<" forecast for noon, Friday, March 3. 

.............
~ 

<Cl 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
----­

Pressure: .J"" 
® © . E:J c:::J ES] [El . () '~*' '¥!¥<;\, 
High Low Showen Rain T•atorm11 Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
VIS Associated Prus 
Atlanta 64 47 Louisville 49 31 Portland 55 43 Boston 45 33 Memphis 62 42 Rapid City 43 35 Colo. Springs 43 29 Miami 81 68 Savannah 68 47 Chicago 50 31 New York 47 33 St. Louis 41 32 Honolulu 81 66 Philadelphia 59 43 Wash DC 52 34 

Priday, March 3, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Schutte defends death.row prisioner, criticizes penalty 

ANDY WILSON/The Observer 

Steven Schutte, public defender, holds a picture of his client Obadyah ben Yisrael who has been sentened to death. Schutte believes ben Yisrael is innnocent. 
HAVING A 2001 BASILICA WEDDING? 
J..d tk arw ft!} wcdrli~rofcr1ioxal.t1/towJOI< A!Jw i1J CYt(l.frJOl<Y uefo3dfcJ!cwcdd,15. 
1)e:ttult


--0-­
D E S I G N 
S{ P>ridaL J.,iouAl:ox, 

SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 2000 Hors d'oeuvres l1 :00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. Four-course luncheon 12:00 p.m. -2:00 p.m. The Beiger Mansion Inn • 317 Lincolnway East, Mishawaka $20 per person 
TO REGISTER OR FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL CELEBRATED EVENTS AT 219/257-8873. 




HoLv(RossA!socIATES 
"My Associate year was the most influential experience of my life ... " 
Interested in a Year o 'ervice? 
Live in Community with 4-7 other volunteers. Live a Simple Lifestyle. Enjoy the support of a Faith-Based community. Opportunities with a variety of Direct Service Placements . 

Information Meetings 

Monday, March 6th at 5:30 pm at the Center for Social Concerns. Tuesday, March 7th at 5:30 pm at the Center for Social Concerns. 
•
• Former Associates will be speaking at dorm masses
•
• this Sunday, March 5th . 
• 

Associates are eligible for AmeriCorps Education Awards and Loan Deferments. The Education Award is $4,725 towards loans and/or future education. 

Serving in Arizona, Colorado, Massacliusetts, Oregon, and Pennsylvania 

http://www.nd.edu/-hcassoc/
For More Information call 631-5521 nd.hcassoc.1@nd.edu 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI News Writer 
Steven Sdrntte. chief puhlic defender for the State of Indiana, believes his client, Obadyah hen Yisrael may be the victim of racial discrimina­tion by the Indiana judcical system. 
"I represent an innocent man who is condemned to die," Schutte said at the begin­ning of his presentation. titled. "Innocent on Indiana's Death Row: The Case of Oba<lyah ben Yisrael." 
Hen Yisrael is now in prison and will stay there until his conviction is overturned or he is executed under Indiana's current death penalty laws. 
Schutte concentrated not only on the specifics of the hen Yisrael case, but also on the death penalty itself. 
"Comprehensive study done on wrongful convictions [states that] as high as 5 per­cen l of all people convicted a-re not guilty of the crimes Hrny am convicted of," Schutte said. '"ll is my opinion that lhe rate tof Mrorl may be higher in death penalty cases. The courts have elevated proce­dural regularity over fair­ness." 
According to Schutte, the House of Representatives and the Senate of Indiana have made a resolution to explore the possibility of racial dis­crimination in seeking the death penalty. They are also researching the possibility of innocent people on death row and the clear proclivity of proser,utors to seek the death penalty in re-election years. 
"The convictional wisdom [of county prosecutors) is that 80 percent of the people of Indiana support the death penalty. Nobody ever lost a vote by being hard on crime because no one has ever said otherwise," he said. 

Schutte expressed concern about error in the justice sys­tem. 
"I believe that the death penalty is wrong," Schutte said. "'I hope you leave here thinking we're not perfect. We are an imperfect people and we have imperfect systems. The system has never worked. If we have this perfect penalty but imperfect people we're going to kill innocent people." 
Schutte believes the justice system was not fair to hen Yisrael. 
Ben Yisrael was brought to trial four times for shooting 10 people. The first trial for two murdArs and two attempted murders resulted in an ar.quit­tal. The second. for one mur­der and one attempted mur­der. also resulted in acquittal. 
He was convicted in the third trial for two more mur­ders before being tried 
suspect in the

and convict­"We are an imperfect 
composite

ed a fourth people (!,nd 
sketch at the .

time for two 
we have imperfect scene of the 
separate 
last two mur­

murders. systems. The system has 
ders. The

The 10 never worked" 
suspect,

shootings 
according to

took place 
the witness,

Steven Schutte 
between 
sat in a car

Halloween publi£ defender 
outside of the

and mid­State of Indiana 
December of 1 9 9 0 . Schutte said. According to Schutte, an eye­witness in the first trial was able to help police draw up a composite sketch of the sus­pect, a '"shaggy-haired, light­skinned" man. Ben Yisrael, also known as Christopher Peterson, is black. 
"(At the first trial] the woman said [Peterson] wasn't the guy," Schutte said. 
Ben Yisrael was originally arrested for a robbery after his accomplice told police that hen Yisrael was the "Shotgun Slayer that police sought in connection with the 10 shoot­ings." 
When a gun was found in hen Yisrael's closet that matched shell casings from the crime scenes, ben Yisrael was questioned, arrested and confessed. 
At his first two trials. the witness assisting police with the composite did not believe 
1733 S. lroowml I 
• South Bend • 

(219) 277-6767


Downunder 
Lt\t.111'1HJII 
I 
• St M.uv'sCoUc::gc •I..._____ _ 
$10.00 OFF a  .  .  (219) 284~5363 f  
Hi-lites and Hair  
Cut Combo  AVEDA  
--Nails -$35. OD-­ 
Full Set Bring Ad In  O·P·I @!IJl;i§ll,jjl@li!@ii!  
Exp. 5-31-2000  www.sotonnouveou.com  

Hair Care -Skin Care -Makeup -Plant Pure-Fume -Body Care -Nail Care 
that ben Yisrael was the man she saw. 
After throe days of question­ing, ben Yisrael decided to confess to end the interroga­tion process. Despite his con­fession. he was acquitted in those trials. 
"'The state's case [was iden­tical .in both trials]." Schutte said. '"What he said he did didn't match the statements. It is true that when the police came to question him. [ben Yisrael said he had committed the crimes], but he was a scared 22-year-old kid. The simple fact is people. all the time, for a variety of reasons, say things they didn't do... 
Schutte believes that new evidence, overlooked by the public defenders in the second two trials, will help him obtain an acquittal in ben Yisrael's case. 
Schutte has found a new wit­
ness that 
places the 
shop where 
the shootings 
occurred. The 

suspect was holding a "cylindrical object" that was identified in at least one of the trials as a gun. 
"There are innocent men on death row now," Schutte said. "I want you to leave tonight knowing that Obadyah ben Yisrael never shot anybody and doesn't know who did." 
He encouraged his listeners to write to their legislation and join organizations in order to further investigations the "innocent men on death row in Indiana." 
The presentation was spon­sored by the Justice Education Program and the Northern Indiana Coalition Against the Death Penalty. 
"This is part of an overall effort to raise many of the issues about the death penalty through our community," said Jan Pilarski, coordinator of the justice education program. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 3, 2000 
choose to use their professional this. Although, I do think you working together to make it ing down the hill for 20 miles bar.kgrounds to aid them in ser­have to be physically fit and not across the country and to and taking in all the scenery

Cotnoir 
continued from page 1 
took an internship teaching marketing in Benin, Africa," Cotnoir said. "That was my first service oxporirnce and it was just awesome. It opened my eyes to service work. I thought that it was an incredible experi­enr.e and it really changed me." 
Initially. Cotnoir hoped to devote the summer after he graduated to service work. How1wPr. after talking to Andrea Smith Shappel, dinictor of the senior transition program at Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns, Cotnoir began to research his options. 
"I wanted to do something dif­ferent to replace taking a job," he said. "I went in and researched different options and found Bike Aid. I'm not a cyclist, I play hockPy and that's what I do for a living, buL I thought this would be a good learning experience." 
Jn addition, Cotnoir believes this experience will compliment what he has done in the hockey rink and diversify his resume for when he Pventually applies to graduate schools. 
Shappell agreed with Cotnoir. 

"I met Benoit when he was a senior, coming back from his experienr,e in Africa and he told me he wanted to incorporate service work into his life," Shappell said. 
"Even though it wasn't possi­ble for him to do the summer service work last summer. 1was impressrd that he continued to seek out service opportunities while working on his hockey career." 
or the graduating r.Iass at Notrn Dame, nearly 10 percent choose to .do service after grad­uation. said Shappell. Cotnoir was not unusual in seeking guidanrP from Shappell for ser­vice options after he graduated. 
She said she receives at least 75 rrquPst-; a year from gradu­ates looking for long-or short­tPrm service projects. 
"There have been a lot of rre­ative ideas that people have come up with for service work," said Shappell. 
"Incorporating hockey and his · athletic gift with a desire to do service work to help others is what Benoit has rhosen to do. 
"Many people choose to inror­porate skills they already have into their service work. We have a number of graduates who arc dortors. nurses. or lawyers who vice work." just Joi" Blow off thP strcct." improve the r.ountry. BesidPs 
Colnoir's Lask at hai1d is Jill-Anne Fowler. a 25-year­getting to know more about the preparing financially and physi­old graduatr. student at Bowling people we are riding with. we'll cally for the cross-r,ountry trf'k. Green Statc University took part be learning more abour global He is currently focusing on the in the trip last summer and has and local is..'>Uf'-'>." fundraising aspect. been talking rrnquently to The group beromes very dosn 
"One of the challenges is to Cotnoir, giving him advice and throughout the ride and she raise the $3,600," Cotnoir said. sharing her experiences f'rom could "barely stand to part from ·•1 havf' three main fundraising the trip with him. the members of hi>r group on schemes. I'm hosting a ''It was one of th11 best experi­thn last day," said Fowler. fundraising dinner on March 2u ences of my life," Fowler said. "Your individual mental hPre in Mobile, printing up T­"Physkally and mentally it was strength only goi>s so far, you shirts to sell for which I collect­so chullr.ng-need the • ed sponsors nanrns to put on the ing. You find encourage­back. I built a hockev stick cof­Oli°t how "We refer to it as a m<'nt of' the l'ee table made of br~.Jken hock­strong you community on whAels. people ey sticks that I will be selling really am. around you
We'll be working together 
raffle tickets for at Mystir.ks Thrre wore to help you games." many parl-; of' to make it across the make it," she He is currently halfway to the trip where country and to improve said. raising the goal amount. Cotnoir we would just .Fowler
the country." 
hopes to have mosl of the stop and ci-y said, howev­fundraising done by the end of in sheer joy, er, the over­March. "You are Benoit Cotnoir whelming joy 
As for training for the trip, seeing thinl{s she felt as
Bike Aid participant
Bike Aid ctoes not provide par0 you havP ticipants with a training pro­never seen, gram, They have, however, experieneing given Cotnoir the names of' past things you have nnver cxperi­participants to se-ck advice, . enced, and traversing the coun­Cotnoir has also sought out oth­try on your own power," ers. Before the participants begin 
''I've tried to talk a lot lo pM­their bike trip, they will take p le who have experience in part in a three-day orientation cycling," said Cotnoir. ''I've in Scattlr.. started reading bieyding maga­Throughout the trip, the zines to learn how to ride in a group will disruss various socia.1 back and issues, such as 1 e a r n racism and inr.or­
about the "Every physical and porate what thoy different mental challenge the trip loam inlo their kinds of community ser­
provides is worth it

b i k e s vir,e projects in t h e r e in the end." the towns they a r e . stop in along the People way. The educa­

Jill-Anne Fowler 

h a v e tional asper.t of
former Bike Aid participant

_given me tho trip is what 
a lot of hints and tips and I'm learning a lot from others. 
"There is a bike shop hem that has been very helpful and the people there said they will ride with me a few times br.foro I leave. I'm not worriod about the physical aspect. It should be hard and physically demanding but I think I will adjust ovfff the nine weeks." 
Cotnoir's priority right now is playing hor.kcy for the Mysticks. 
"Right now, that is my No. 1 priority," Cotnoir said. "The season ends in April and then the play-offs begin but as soon as the season is over. I'll start training. 
"Most of the people who do this ride are not tri-athlctcs or super-athletes. l don't think you have to be in super shape lo do 


OFFICE ASSISTANT NEEDED 


Monday/Wednesday Mornings Tuesday Afternoons 

APPLICATIONS Ar: STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 315 LAFORTUNE 

makes it different from other dis­tance rides. 
The group will stay in YMCJ\s, r.hurches, and private homes; eat nrnals with people in the r.ommuni1ics tlrny slop in and meet with grassroots organiza­tions. 
"We refer to it as a r,ommuni­ty on wheels." he said. "We'll be 
the group rode into Washington, 
D.C. on th!' last day to thB stBps of the Capitol made it all worth it, 
"We wrrc about a mile away from the Capitol and we all just started screaming." she said. "People along the street started clapping as we road by. It was an inr,redible s1rnse of' accom­pl.ishmcnt and unreality. We were like, 'Oh my God, we rr.al­ly did this!"' 
Cotnoir's biggest fear embark­ing on the trip is the weather. 
"l chose to start from Seattle because I thought the weather wuuld be cooler along that route, making ii more comfort­able to ride," Cotnoir said. 'Tm especially wurricd about cross­ing the Hocky Mountains and things like that." 
Fowler confirmed that tra­versing the mountains on a bike was onr. or th,i most challenging parts of the trip. 
"On th,i second day of th/) trip we were climbing our l'irst mountain and I thought I was going to die," she said. "It was 

25 milns up the hill, but c.oast­





-~ -,ll

Announcing the Year 2000 Annual 
A wards Albert Itali.an Travel 
made it worth it." 
Besides being physically chal­lenging. Cotnoir will face other obstacles. 
"I think that it will be a cha.1­lengc to live with 15 to 20 p!)O­plc who you have never met in your life for nine weeks and to try to get along, but I think this will be a very important experi­P.ncfl for me to have." he said. 
Cotnoir will finish thr, trip in Lim middle of August and have thrPe to four weeks to spare before it will be time for him Lo return to his professional minor lnague hockey team. 
"The timi11g should be out­standing," said Cotnoir. "! should be in good shape. The team has been very supportive of me and this trip. which helps me a lot." 
"Every physical and mental rhallenge the trip provides is worth it in the Pnd." said Fowler, 'This was a transform­ing and life-changing rxperi­once." 
"You mef't sn many people as you go through those towns and you havr the chance to make an impact on their liw1s," she con­tinued. 
· "WhcnPver people like Benoit ask me about the trip, I tell them to do whatever they can to go on the tri.p. You will never again havfl the chance to cxpe­rionce the freedom that you do during those nine weeks until you are out on a bike, on the open road, with no matrrial possrssions to weigh you down. You are so in control of your­self. You only have your bike, a bit of food and water, the clotlrns on your back and you arc living day to day and desti­nation to destination." 
Cotnoir will have Bike Aid T­shirts for sale at the CSC to ben­efit his trip starting next wnek. 
To grt in touch with Cotnoir or to make a prrsonal pledg or /contribution for his trip, sPnd n-mail to: benoitcotnnir@hot­mail.com. 
of the 

Ravarino Studies Scholarship 

Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2000 annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,500, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students mus_t have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. ' 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages. 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1 )  an  explanation  of  how  the  proposed  research  or  foreign  study  
will  enhance  their  degree  program  at  Notre  Dame  
2)  a  personal  statement  indicating  their  background,  interests,  and  
long-term  goals  
3)  a  description  of  the  research  project  or  the  program  they  intend  

to  follow  
4) 5)  a budget indicating the costs the names of two references.  involved  
Application Deadline: Friday, Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Program in Italian 343 O'Shaughnessy University of Notre  

March 10th, 2000 
Travel Scholarship Studies 
Hall 
Dame 




orld 


Friday, March 3, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS CUBA 
Iraq spurns new U.N. 
Ousted diplomat returns home
arms inspector 
UNITED NATIONS 

Iraq spurned calls hy the chief U.N. wcmpons inspector to allow arms searches to res um<' after more than a year, saying Baghdad had no plans to cooperatP with a 
U.N. policy that doesn't call for sanctions Lo be liftc•d. "The issue is not whet.her the ins per.tors go to Iraq or not," Iraqi Ambassador Saeed llasan said in an interview. "The real issue is the thousands of Iraqis dying every day. The issue is the agj{ression Iraq is subject to since 1991." Iraq contends that sanctions imposed aftpr its 1990 invasion nf Kuwait have lf'd to thousands of Iraqi deaths -a claim disputed by the United States, which blames fraq's r'resident Saddam Hussein. Hasan was responding to the new chief U.N. weapons inspector for Iraq, Hans Blix, who told a press conl'Prrmcf! on Wednesday that Iraq should allow inspections to prove its contention that it has df'stroyPd all of its weapons of mass destruction. 
Michigan seeks manslaughter charge against James 
MOUNT MORRIS TOWNSHIP. Mich. 
Prosecutors brought an involuntary manslaughter charge against a man they believe poss1\ssed the stolen gun later used by a 6-v1:ar-old bov to kill a classmate. "We were not iooking for.scapegoats in this case; we're looking for justice for Kayla." said Genesee County Prosm:utor Arthur Busch. Busch said invnstigators believe the .32-ca!iber semiauto­matic gun used Tuesday to shoot 6-year-old Kayla Holland had been left, apparently loaded, under Jamelle James· blankets in a bf'droom at the house where the boy stayed. Investigators also found a stolen 12-gauge shotgun and drugs at the house. the prosecu­tor said . .lames, 19, was arraigned Thursday on tlrn manslaughter charge. which carries a possible 15-year prison sentence. 
Vergara not in favor of 
U.S. dollars 
QUITO, Ecuador 

Dario Vergara's eyes aren't lighting up with dollar signs at the prospect of making the U.S. gre1:nback this nation's official currency. "H's only going to favor the rich and be a disaster for poor people," said the middle-aged barber as he clipped away at a customer's hair. "You do not have to be a fortune teller to know that when we adopt the dollar the country's situa­tion will get worse." Congress passed a reform par.kage to usher in the controversial currency switch, which new President Gustavo Noboa's gnvernment describes as Ecuador's only hope to stabilize its shattered economy. 
¦tiliii#MMi@MUM 
Al\lEX:

Dow 
1003.50 + l.55

]ONES 
Nasdaq:

+26.99 
LJ 
4754.51 -29.57 
NYSE 
601.50 
+2.02 

S&P 500: Composite1381.76 Volume:10164.92 +2.57 I,182,738,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CAMPAU tu;xu \ CUHRI •CBtPGF f!JCI 
lCOI!. CORP COJIS -n.,3 -J:2.315 100.316 MICJl:OSOFT CORP MSFT +.2. 83 ,tl.S6'7 53 .4.66
....,

DELL COKIUTER tiEL:t. +1.9~4. 53.10-.2 PALM INC PJU.M +150, 1-6 +51 ,060 38.026 LUCENT 1'!:CH INC LU .,. 55 +3.125 34.30 COMPAQ COMPUTER CPQ +2. 65 . 0. E90 31.873 GLOBAL CROSSING CBLX +6. 76 .1 . .IU 2:8. 777 QWEST COMMUN':IC.A.. Q +3.,5 ,i,2.000 28.752 .A.T"T COll.P T +13.U +6, 315 28.34:2 ORACLE COJl:P ORCL -&. 20 -3.COO 26.15'5 
A!isociatcd Press 
HAVANA 
A Cuban diplomat who hid out in the Cuban Embassy in Canada after being expelled from the United States over espionage suspicions received a hero's welcome when he returned home Thursday after five days of uncertainty. 
President Fidel Castro embraced Jose Imperatori as he stepped onto the tarmac !ale Thursday afternoon. Foreign Minister felipe Perez Roque and Ricardo Alarcon were also in the high-level delegation there to wel­come him. 
"I am very happy to be back in my homeland again," said Imperatori. who tried unsucCFissfully to be returned to the United States to defend himself against accusations that he was the contact for a U.S. immigration agent accused of spying for Cuba. 
"There is no proof ... it doesn't exist," Castro told a group of reporters. The communist govern­ment has maintained in recent days that its mission in the United States has never engaged in intelligence gathering. 
Imperatori was accompanied on the flight by his wife, Raquel Fundora, who went with a group of about 50 well-known Cubans to Canada to pick him up. 
Instead of returning to the United States as he wished, Imperatori boarded a Cubana Airline plane Thursday. According to a Cuban gov­ernment statement. Imperatori ended his four-day hunger strike ear­lier in the day. 
AFP Photo
Imperatori was declared persona 

Cuban diplomat Jose lmperatori was received by his mother and his 
non grata by Washington last week 


daughter at the Jose Marti airport in Havana, Cuba, after arriving from 
for allegedly helping Mariano Faget, 


Canada. lmperatori was expelled by the U.S. and sent to Canada. 
a U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service worker accused of spying for Cuba. Florida coast after a boat from Cuba al hundred demonstrators gave a Imperatori resigned as vice-consul sank. killing his mother, her boyfriend standing ovation in lmperatori's of Cuba's Interests Section in 
and others. His relatives in Miami are honor. Washington but refused to leave the trying to keep him in the United "I did not intend to come to country. U.S. officials flew him to States, while Cuba demands his Canada," Imperatori's statement said. Canada on Saturday, but he took return to his natural father. "I wanted to remain in the United refuge in the Cuban Embassy instead U.S. officials have denied any link States facing up to the lies and the of continuing to Havana. between the espionage accusations slanders and defending the rights of 
In a statement released after the and the Gonzalez case. the child whatever the consequences." departure of his plane. Imperatori In a letter to a group of disabled But "a reasonable solution was 
said anti-Castro Cubans in the United Cubans who rallied late Thursday found with honor and dignity for my States concocted the spy accusations afternoon to press for Elian's return, homeland and for me," it said, with­to discredit the immigration agency Castro said he had to leave so he out elaborating. 
because it ruled that the Cuban boy could receive lmperatori "who has Canadian officials have said Elian Gonzalez should be returned to done so much for the return of the Imperatori was in the country illegally his homeland. boy Elian." because the transit visa he received Gonzalez was rescued off the After the letter was read, the sever-upon arrival Saturday had expired. 

U.S. troops headed to Mozambique 
$37.6 million in emergency Bacon said. extract people. Each can 
Associated Press 

disaster assistance for The U.S. relief effort, carry 38 passengers and lift 
WASHINGTON southern Africa "for the coordinated by the U.S. up to 20,000 pounds. Some 
As many as six U.S. Air purpose of providing European Command, is may be used to move inflat­Force special operations international disaster assis­code-named Operation able boats for use in rescu­helicopters will be trans­tance." Silent Promise. It will be ing stranded people in the ported to southern Africa Pentagon spokesman commanded by Air Force flood areas, Bacon said. beginning this weekend to Kenneth Bacon said two or Maj. Gen. Joseph Wherle The United States already attempt to rescue flood vic­three MH-53 helicopters Jr.. commander of the 3rd has pledged $12.8 million in tims in Mozambique, the will be loaded aboard C-5 Air Force. emergency relief and mili­Pentagon announced transport planes at The United Nations esti­tary assistance. President Thursday. Mildenhall Air Base in mates that between Clinton said Wednesday 
The Pentagon also will England this weekend for 800,000 and 1 million peo­that one U.S. military plane send a team of medical and the 20-hour flight to south­ple have lost their homes in delivered relief supplies to communications specialists ern Africa. They will have Mozambique and are in Mozambique on to the area this weekend Navy SEAL commandos and urgent need of help follow­Wednesday, and a second from Europe aboard C-130 others ready to begin oper­ing the worst floods in was to arrive shortly in aircraft. They are being ating early next week, he decades to strike the pover­South Africa. diverted from an exercise said. ty-stricken country. "But we can do more to planned in the central The medical team will Thousands are feared address the needs of the .AJrican nation of Cameroon. include 200 to 400 troops dead. nearly 1 million people who 
Meanwhile. President and the helicopter support The MH-53 helicopters have been displaced," Clinton authorized up to will total 400 to 600 troops, are specially equipped to Clinton said. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 3, 2000 



ND to build new arts center 
By HELENA RAYAM 
Ne\vs Writer 
Plans are in progress to foster the University's per­formers and their audi­ences in a new performing arts r.cnter. 
"It's something thP University needed to round out its availability of space in thf' prrforming arts." said Jim Lyphout. associate vice president of business operations who oversees the planning of the center. 
The Marie P. Deilartolo Center for the Performing Arts will house five venues for pP-rformances. accord­ing to l.yphout. 
In addition to some offices and smaller rooms, the building vvill include a qoO-sPat roncert hall. a 200-seat cinema. a 100­seat student theater. a ~50-seat main stage the­ater and a 100-seat f:horal 
hall. Since then, the Universitv 
.. It's going to be a very has raised funds and start­sophisticated building," Ad to plan tlrn construction said Lyphout. of the building, a $51 mil­
The center will incorpo­lion project. rat() stat('-of-thc-art 1(\Ch­"It's a verv difficult task. nology, stadium seating We have a ·wide array ol' 
and equipment to handle consultants the sound disruptions 
"/t's going to be a uery
that could occur from sophisticated building." tlrn various theaters. 
Jim Lyphout
The loca­
tion of the associate vice president De Bartolo of business operations Center fur t h e 
on this pro­
ject," said 
Lyphout. 
T h e 
Univnsity is working with llardy, Holzman, l'feil'f'er Associates, an ar('.h iL<\(' ­ture compa­
Performing ;\rts will be ny with offices in Los south of the College or Angnl11s and New York. Business Administration Thr main arr.hitect on thr and the llesburgh Center at project is Norman Pfeiffer Lhe far t'.nd of the of the Los Angples ol'li<:c. De Bartolo quad. This spring f'rnres will 
The University rncog­surround the construction nized the need for a per­site. Construction will con­f'orrning arts building sev­tinue for scvrral y<'ars. but eral years ago when it according to Lyphout, reevaluated its r.olloquy. "We're well underway." 



Write for The Observer. 

Call 1-5323. 
FREE REFILL 
On Popcorn & Soft Drinks! 
LL DIGITAL 

HOWPL 
Just West of Main St on Chi . s4,SO All Shows Before 6 pm • Advance licket Sales Available :J b. .• 
.......... , ..... ------···-··· 
All Times for Mar. 3.5 Only 
The Next Best Thin~ (PG-13) Digital . [l'.'.:(Xl 2:4~ 5:10 :40 10:10 Boys Don't 'ry (R) Digital jl:10] 4:15 7:(X) 10:0Cl . Mv Dog Skip (PG) Digital [f:50] 4: 10 6:4'i 9: IO Drowning Mona (PG-13) Digital [12:20 2:30] 4:'iO 7:10 9:10 What Planet Are,.ou From( R) Digital [2:10] 4:40 7:20 9:50 Reindeer Games (RJ DigitalI12:25 2:501 5: 15 7:45 10:15 Wonder Bo(\s (R) Digitall':4oi4 2 6:50 9:55 
Cider ousc Rules (PG-13) DigitalII:OOJ 3:45 6:40 9:25 
•The Whole '.'line Yards (Rl Digital [2:20] 5 05 8:00 10:35 
·----------....,,....,..,.. 

SCOTTSDALE 6 
Scottsdale Mall • 299-6063 
!\Ian on the Moon (R) fI :20] 4:(Xl 7:00 9:50 Play It To The Bone (R) [ I :40] 4:30 7: IO I0:00 Any Gi,·en Sunday (R) [ I :(Xl] 4:40 8: I'i 
Saturday & Sunday Matinees in Brackets 
Boiler Room (R) 
[I :45] 415 7:50 10:25 
Hanging U~ (R)
[12:15 L5] 4:45 7::>,() 9:4'i 
Pitch Black (R) 
[2: 15] 5:20 8:05 I0J0 
American Bcautv (R) 
[ 1 :201 4:30 7: rs 10:05 Scream3 (R) [12:10 2:55] 5:30 8:10 10:40 Snow Da\' (PG) [12:30 2:40] 5:<Xl 7:25 9:40 
The T\g~cr Movie (G)112:0~ _:00] 4:(){) 6:30 The Beach (R) 
9:(Xl 
Digital Digital Digital Digital Digital Digital Digital Digital 
ONLY $1 00 All Shows Before 6 pm
• Everyone• Everyday $l50 All Evening Shows :Y 6.. 
Deuce Bigalo: Male Gigolo (PG-13) [I :50] 4:20 7:20 9J0 Anna and the King (PG-13) [I :30! 4:50 8:<XJ End of Days (PG-13) [ I :!OJ 4·10 l'l:50 9:40 






Election 
continued from page l 
their numbers are pretty compara­ble to those from earlier in the WPek." Dovidio said. 
Moscona. however, was discour• aged by his class· turnout. 
"I think it was disappointing. Thn scheduling and lor.ation of' the vote m,tke it very dillicult to turn out," Moscona said. 
In a week that saw the voiding of Mond,ty's 2003 primary vote and a subsequent rnvotP on Tuesday. both J)ovidio and Moscona are glad to sen the elections end. The 1ilec­tio ns W<'rc a long, f'ruslraling process. Dovidio said. . 
"I think a lot of students; am dis­hPart<'rn~d with student gowrnmenl and tired of elections. but I hopn they s<w that th.is eloction cndnd fairly and by the ruks," he said. 
With the elections finished, the winning tickets are primed to set to work on their platforms. 
Gernerd's tirkct plans to increase class unity through a charity golf' tournament. a senior week and a senior talent show. Among the tick­et's other goals are to develop a class wPbpage and a post-gradua­tion wcbpage. 
"Our ticket leatures a lot or expe­rience, whif:h we will need in coor­dinating all of next year's events. The class of 2001 can count on a very fun year to conrn," Grrnrrd said. 
Moscona's ticket also has fun in mind. 
"\Ve want to increase the number of social events. We'd like to plan a class trip to an amuscnwnt park," '.'vtoscona said. 
His othf'r ideas include develop­ing a class webpage and providing more servin) opportunitir.s for his classmates. 


Ladies of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Scholarship Fund Benefit 
l :00 pm 
2:00 pm 
3:00 pm 
4:00 pm 
S:00 pm 
Presentation by the Irish Dancers 
of Notre Dame/ St. Mary's 
Meet the Leprechaun: Michael Brown 
reads St. Patrick's Day Stories! 
Fr. Ted Hesburgh signs 
God. Country, Notre Dame 
Professor William O'Rourke discusses and signs his newly updated Campaign America '96 
Caf~ Music by Josie Vodica 
Saturday, March 4 
10:00 AM -9:00 PM Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
"on the campus" 
{219) 631-6316 



NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FOR A $5.00 BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 





SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
Friday, March 3, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
BRITAIN

YEMEN 
Polish aD1bassador 
Pinochet leaves for Chile a free man 


kidnapped 
Associated Press 

Associa red I'ress 
SAN'A 

Thi' Polish ambassador has been kidnapped in YPnwn. Urn latest act of law­!f'ssnl'ss bv t.ribesrnPn who abdun l'or·,•ignrrs in hopes of forcing tlw g-overnnwnt lo rPleasP dPlainf'es or build hospitals and bt"ltcr roads. Krzysztof Suprowicz was 
abductnd  in San'a  on  
Wcdrwsdav  evening  by  
rnrmbns  ·  of  ttw  

Yamannyatain tribr,, who am dnmanding tlrn rnlcrnse of a f'i•llow trib1-~sman arrnst­Pd las! ..,,eek. security offi­1'.ials said. They did not say why thP tribesman was 
LONDON
detained. 
Former Chilean dictator Gen.
Nina Suprowicz, the Augusto Pinochet departed
ambassador's wife. told pri­Britain a free man Thursday,
vate Polish Radio HMF that rmrling a 16-month legal saga
lhc kidnappers called her 
heralded for establishing that
Thursday to say that her 
former lead-husband .is "OK." 
ers accusedThe kidnappPrs first took of' human 
Suprowicz to a remote area rights abuses 30 miles north or San'a and 
are not 
thr.n moved him to a moun­
immune 
tainous area ol' Khawlan. 
from prose­southeast of thr. capital. 
r. u ti on 
Soldiers on Thursday 
abroad. 
encircled the arna while gov­
"This has 


Pinochet
ernment offirials appt'aled been an 
to tribal leacfors to mediate a unprecedent­peaceful end to the standoff, 
ed case. Both I and the courts 
the seruritv officials said. 
have had to navigate in unr.hart­
speaking 1;11 condition of 
ed territorv," Home Secretaryanonymity. 
Jark Stra\\' told the House of Commons af'ter ruling that the 

C 
~
·­
"'~ 
= 
"CJ 
C 
n, 
2' 

c::, 
en 
-
·­
= 
'C 
cc 
... 
'C 

=,.._ 
0 
C: 
-
I ~ 



!I E
-
""' ti, 
Q. 
cu
!III 
Q 
84-year-old general was mental­ly unfit to be extradited to Spain fur trial on tortuni charges. 
Straw also dismissed extradi­



6Jne ~£'! 9?rle;e 11 
tion requests from throe other 1n nations that contended their citi­
ll 
zens were victims of Pinochet's
!
kt (}fist°"'! ""4 c~,11c1sm 
regime -Belgium. France and 
Switzerland. The D<!-partm6\t of,..._rt, Art History and Design Pinochet.. who doctors say suf­is pleased to announce its a.ru:'<ua.l com~titlon fered brain damage when he for the Riley Px-ize in Art Histc~y & C:riticisr.TL 
flxpP-rienced two small strokes 
c,.uren.t Nc,tre Da.me ut1dergra.duate and 
last fall, left Britain on Thursday
graduate st'Ude~ts are invited to submit.essays 
afternoon and was expected to 
on any topic in th«'! J:-.i5tc1·y of an: or a.rt o:1tic= 
arrive in Santiago on Friday
for coruiiden1ticn in tt.e cor.:ipetition. Essays 
aft1~r an undisclosed stopoVfir en
must deal with the visu.,l a;-ts. The:r· may nave 
route.
been written in conjusv:ti:::n ""ith a c-o,trse taker, 
Tho former dictator issued no
2.t t..;e YJruversity, but need net have been. comment as his df'tention in 
i3ritain came to an end, but his Rules gov~tng thli! competition a1:e ., v .ailabl" eldest son, Augusto Marco in the Art ~parttr.i?:nt Offic..-. Two <:opi~s of Antonio. said in the Chilean capi­
the suhrnilS&ion mu$t be dellv~red to tl;,.e Ai:t tal that his father received the Department Office, 132 O'Shaugh1u~ssy H~H, 
mw,s of his freedom "very calm­
by :HlOPM, fciday,M.>rch :31, to be~ligi.ble. A 
ly. the way he usually is, without 
student ~ QJ'lly sv.b.mi, ONl: "'r,.t1y. 
showing his feelings and emo­tions.·· Whilfl human rights groups 
Kellogg Institute and La Alianza 

A Ce.1e.b!4aTlc»'\ of Ccu,.."'aval 
Wltk 
Chic.ago SaJ'Y\ba School 

Popular Brazilian Music 
Friday, March 3, 2000 
8:00 pm Reckers, South Dining Hall 
hicago Samba School is a t plays the m azilian music in the Midwes variety of a Nova, Samba, Olodum, F ....,_,__,,. ode and iting styles, the Batuca mplete seen during the carnavals in Brasil. Whe 
o dancer will be 
able to stop! 
"Percussion, percuss1 ercussion. group of (mosUy) native-bor most danceable and energetic samba jams practically have to i>e a corpse not to want Jason Koransky, Centerstage 

ing . One n ensemble cada starts, 

oxprnssed dismay at Straw's rul­ing, they also applauded the British and Spanish courts for decisions that strengthened the reach of an international law against torture that had been lit­tle known. despite ratification by dozens of countries. 
Under the law, which Britain 
adopted in 1988, torture 
became an international crime 
that any nation may prosecute 
and from which no one enjoys 
immunity. 
Britain's top court of appeals, 
the House of Lords. cited the 
law in issuing it<; precedent-set­
ting decision to strip Pinochet of 
his immunity. 
"This ruling was a landmark judgment in human rights law, whose impact has been felt far beyond our shores,'' Straw said. 
Others took note: Indonesia's 
former President Suharto, for example, derided last vear not to seek med­ical care abroad for fear or being arrested. 
"It has been a major victo­ry for h u m an rights," said Reed Brody, of the New York-based 
group Human Rights Watrh. "The very fact that Pinochet was arrested. that four countries sought his extradition and that his claim or immunity was reject­ed has made the world a smaller plar.e for people who commit atrocities." 
Pinochet was arrested under a Spanish warrant Oct. 16. 1998, 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardback and Paperback nooks in stock -Out-of-Print scJrch service: $2.00 
-Appraisals large and small 
OPEN NOON TO SIX TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 1027 E. WAYNE SOUTH BEND, IN 4661 8 
(219) 232-8444 
while rncupRrating from bark surgery in a London hospital. A Spanish judge accused him of orchestrating a systematic cam­paign of torture against political opponents throughout his 17• year dictatorship. 
An official Chilean government report says 3.197 people died or disappeared at the hands of Pinochet's secrnt po!icR after he toppled the country's elRctRd Marxist president in a 1973 r.oup. 
Straw freed Pinochet, who for most of his detention stayed in a rented mansion outside London under 24-hour guard, after an independent medical examina­tion found the former dictator's diminished mental capacity would make it impossible for him to participate in his own trial. 
Straw said he rejected submis­
'The very _{act that Pinochet was arrested, that.four countries sought his extradition and that his claim of immunity was rejected has made the world a smaller place for people who commit atrocities." 
Reed Brody Human Rights Watch 
sions from the four nations that questioned the findings, calling their criticisms "medically unjustified." 
"Tim principle that an accused person should be mentally capable of fol­lowing the pro­ceedings, instructing his lawyers and giv­ing coherent evi­dl'nce is funda­mental to the idea of a fair 

trial," the Home Office said in a statement. 
The European nations that pursued Pinochet through the British courts expressed disap­pointment at Straw's ruling, but none launched a last-minute appeal in an attempt to prevent the general's departure. 
Belgium pledged to pursue Pinochet through the Chilean courts, while Spain -which kicked off the legal fight with its arrest warrant -called his detention "a warning signal for all those who don't respect human rights." 
Straw acknowledged that he was "all too well aware" that his decision -capping a case that will cost British taxpayers mil­lions of dollars -means Pinochet is unlikely to be tried anywhere in the world. 

" ••.the musicians of the Chicago Samba School sometimes bloody their hands in the passion to incessantly play the guttural African sounds that have the flavor of Brazil. They have the ability to create an environment filled with joy and a strident joviality for all that see them perform. Penelope Baker, La Raza Newsweekly. 
Open to the Public 

..., When: Wednesday March !"-Friday March 3'0 9:30 PM ..., Where: Montgomery Theater on the I" floor of Lafortune ..., Featured Films: 
.q,, Wednesday: HWHERS with \Mnona Ryder .... Thursday: ALEAGUE OF THEIR OWN with Geena Davis ...,. \Mth an introduction from a farmer player ofthe A/1,A,merican Girls Professional Baseball League -Friday: 6Uf.1',LS WITH Sigourney Weaver 
COME JOIN USII! 
..., FREE Admission ..., FREE Food 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 3, 2000 



FBI seizes computer after internet attacks 
Associated Press 
Fodera! agents investigating last month's Internet al.tacks havf\ seized a computer from a 17-year-old New Ha':1ps~iro boy and am cons1der1ng whether he should be r.harged with computer crimes unrelat­ed to those disruptions, a fed­eral law enforcement official said Thursday. 
The vouth uses the screen name ..·coolio," one of the alias­es the PB! suspects may have been involved in last month's sensational attacks against popular Web sites, this offi~ial said. requesting anonymity. But federal investigators believe he is only one of a number of peop.le who have used "coolio" as a screen name. 
The charges that federal prosecutors are weighing do not stem from the so-called denial-of-service attacks that shut down Yahoo!. eBay, Amazon.com and other Internet sites for hours at a time. but rather from evidence of other. unrelated hacking found on the seized computer, this official said. 
The 17-year-old, who lives in New Hampshire, claimed to FBI agents that he had hacked into 100 Web sites, including one based in Los Angeles, Officer Joe Buscaino of the Los Angeles Police Department said Thursday. 
Los Angeles police became involved while investigating an attai..:k on Dare.com, an anti­drug abuse site they founded. The Los Angeles police com­puter crimes unit traced that attack to the youth, Buscaino said. 
WMUR-TV in Manchester, N.11.. said the suspect was a dropout of Kingswood Regional High School in Wolfeboro, N.H. 
A federal official said he could not confirm the report 
After the youth's residence was searched Wednesday, he told investigators he has been using computers since he was 3 years old, and spends about 16 hours a day on the Internet, Buscaino said. 
The boy claimed he had attacked a Commerce Department site that outlines rules for exporting chemicals that could be used to produce chemical weapons, Buscaino said. 

The teen also acknowledged disrupting Rsa.com, operated by RSA Security Inc., 0~1e of the nation's most prominent Internet security companies, Buscaino said. 
On Feb. 1:~. a har.ker r,alling himself "coolio'' redirected vis­itors to RSA's Web site ­which proclaims itself "the most trusted name in c-securi­ty" -to another hacked com­puter at a university in South America. There, a nearly duplicate hoax site proclaimed: "Trust us with your data! Praise Allah!" 
The hackAr left a message, "owned by coolio," and also derided RSA's earlier announcement that it had developed a countermeasure to the types of attacks suffered a week earlier at major com­mercial Web sites. 
Last month, Justice Department officials identified "coolio" a!:i one of three hack­ers, known only by their monikers, sought for question­ing in the string of attacks on popular Web sites. 
The federal law enforcement official said the youth has not been arrested by federal agents and no arrest of him is imminent. 
Federal prosecutors planned to meet with New Hampshire prosecutors Friday to discuss charges, Buscaino said. 
In computer crime cases involving juveniles, federal prosecutors usually defer to state prosecutors and only bring federal charges if the state declines to do so. 
In New Hampshire, Attorney General Philip McLaughlin would not identify the boy or give his age or hometown. "My office and prosecutors have been cooperating with the Department of Justice and· FBI since shortly after events of couple weeks ago," McLaughlin said. . 
Assistant New Hampshire Attorney General Mark Zuckerman said, "We do believe there's a New Hampshire connection to some of that activity," he said, refer­ring to the spate of Web attacks in February. 
SENIORS!! 
VOLUNTEER SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES AT 


ANDRE HOUSE 
PHOENIX, AZ AND OAKLAND, CA 
COME TO OUR OPEN HOUSE AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
MONDAY, MARCH 6, S-8 PM 
F:nd out about the service opportunities offered at these two Andre House locations. We have openings for full­time staff positions beginning this summ_er. Com.e to the_ CSC to find out more. There will be an information session at 7 pm.....Food and refreshments will be there tool 
+ 
The Andre House is sponsored by the Holy Cross Priests and Brothers 



Diallo family seeks civil charges 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Black activists and the par­ents of Amadou Diallo met Thursday with the No. 2 offi­cial at the Justice Department and urged him to file civil rights charges against four New York City police ol1icers acquitted in the shooting death of the West African immigrant. 
After the meeting, nearly 2,000 demonstrators marched around the Justice Department building chanti­ng. "No justice! No peace1" and waving placards and flags. Many protesters were bused in f'rom New York and New Jerse}'. 
Diallo's parents, along with the Rev. Al Sharpton, former New York Cil.y Mayor IJavid Dinkens, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People leader Kwesi Mfume and others, expressed opti­mism following the two-hour meeting with Deputy Attorney General Eric Holder. 
"The meeting was very great and fruitful and we have very high hopes,'' said Saiko Diallo, the victim's father. 
Holder said the Diallo case is a priority, but he made no guarantee the Justice Department would pursue civil rights charges against Sean Carroll, Edward McMellon, Kenneth Boss and Richard Murphy. 
"These are difficult cases to prosecute. The standard that we have to meet on the feder­al side is a high one, but we will look at the case," Holder told reporters in a news con­ference before the meeting. 
To obtain a conviction, fed­eral prosecutors would have to show the officers intended to deny Diallo his civil rights. 
The officers fired 41 shots at Dial! o in the early hours of Peb. 4. 1999. in the narrow vestibule of his Bronx apart­ment building. The officers testified they \~nre looking for a rape suspect and fired when Diallo reached for what they thought was a gun. It was his wallet. 
The officers Wflre acquitted last week of charges ranging from second-degree murder to 
"These are difficult cases to prosecute. The standard that we have to meet on the federal side is a high one. but we will look at the case." 
Eric Holder deputy attorney general 
reckless endangerment by a racially mixed jury. 
After the verdict, some jurors laid blame for the acquittals on a lackluster prosecution bv Bronx District Attorney Robert Johnson's office. One juror said she was surprised when prosecutor Eric Warner declined to cross examine the final witness. an expert on police practices. Some activists have called for Johnson. who is black, to resign. 
Rep. Charles Rangel, D-N.Y., said Diallo supporters raised questions with IIolder _over whether the case was vigor­ously prosecuted and whether the judge was too supportive 
of the defendants. 
Among the factors that can be considered in reviewing the trial with an eye to civil rights charges are incompfltence, corrup­tion intimidation or undue infl~ence, according to Justice Department guide­lines. 
The Justice Department has an ongoing investigation into the patterns and prac­tices of the New York Police 
Department. That probe was expanded to include the_ Strc~t Crimes Unit after Diallo s shooting. 
All four police officers in the Diallo shooting were members of the unit, a roving group of plainclothes officers. 

The Notre Dame Music Department Guest Lecture Series presents 
Robert Kend.rick 
Associate Professor at the Umvers1ty of Chicago 
"A Courtesan's Musical Prayer, r, Was Barbara Strozzi Putting Us On in 1656?" 
Monday, March 6, 4:30 pm Room 1 24 Crowley Hall 
The lecture is free and open to the public. 
For more information, call 631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/-music. Friday, March .3, 2000 The Observer . ELECTION NEWS page 9 







Buchanan seeks 
Reform Party bid 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Pat 8uchanan says hr, is rnadv to catr.h the "rcl'orm can­dida.lP," banner on campaign finance and other issues if the White House bids of John l\,lrCain and Bill Bradlf'y falter in Tuesday's primaries. 
''There's onlv onP. Heform Party," Bur:!rnnan said Thursdav. "We will have an agPnda of' reform that is broad­Pr and deeper than any ·,vc've s,,.-n this war." 
"! think whrn Brndle" and McCain fade awav. there's onlv nrw reform can~lidate in the run•," said Buclrnnan. who swilrlll'd from the GOP in (ktober and has c:;1rnpaigned rross-counlry in pursuit of the third party's nomination. 
More than a dozen states hold Hepub1ican and Demor.ratic primaries on "Super Tuesday," making it a day of major importance for those parties' candidates. And voters' choir.es will also be giv­ing direction to hopefuls in the Reform Party founded by Texas billionaire Ross Perot -whose supportf\rs. meanwhile. have begun pushing hard for him to challenge Buchanan 
A pPtition drive is underway to encourage Perot, and sup­porters plan to increase thoir efforts. But for now, Buchanan is tbe main candidate. 
McCain and Bradlev have staked their candidacies on messages of campaign f1nam:e and other reforms. and if thei.r presidential efforts perish. Buchanan said, the mantle of rPform goes to him. 




McCain criticizes Bush's ads 
blaming Bush for accepting a research." Associated Press 
debate invitation after McCain In response, Bush said that 
had already made other cam­McCain's own Web site 
LOS ANGELES paign plans. includes the programs in Fighting anew over negative With Bush sweeping McCain question on a list or "everyday.
ads, Republicans George W. 

this week in Virginia, North garden-variety pork."Bush and John McCain strug­Dakota and Washington state, McCain also complainedgled for a late advantage the stakes are high entering about ads in New York, Ohio 
'l'hursday heading into their 
the 13-state "Super Tuesday" and California that portrayf i n a l voting, him as opposed to environ­debate 
when 613 
mental cleanup. They were before next delegates aired by a group identified week's almost only as Republicans for Clean multi-state 60 percent Air, and McCain suggested the "Super of those ads were coordinated with the Tuesday" needed for Bush campaign. although he presiden­t h e had no evidence. tial pri­Hepublican McCain said he was worried maries. presiden-about the negative tenor of the 
M c Ca i n McCain tial nomi-Bush campaign because "there is protested nation -the potential of hurting the an ad suggesting he opposes will be awarded. Republican party." breast cancer research and The debate was perhaps Despite the Lone, McCain called on Bush to "get out of most important for McCain, said he would support Bush in the gutter." -who was battling bark from the fall if he were the nomi­
Busb said the ad only the criticism that followed his nee. described a proposal on denunciation of two conserva­''I've been saying all along I McCain's own Web page. and tivc religious loaders in will," McCain said, arriving in he said, "It sounds like Virginia. St. Louis. ''Jle's a good man. S1rnator McCain is becoming While the senator said he from a good family. I'll sup­increasingly angry as the cam­stood by that speech, he port him in the fall if he's the paign goes on." expressed regret Wednesday nominee and do everything I 
Joined by r.onservative com­for a "flip remark" on his can to help him be the next mentator Alan Keyes, the two campaign bus that suggested president of the United presidential contenders were Jerry Falwell and Pat States." 
meeting for an hourlong Robe°rtson were among "the In the run-up to the debate, debate sponsored by CNN and forces of evil." lie said it was a the Texas governor said the Los Angeles Times. It was misguided attempt at humor. Thursday that McCain had being broadcast nationally by On Thursday, it was his turn only vague education ideas the cable network. to criticize Bush for the nega­while "I have a plan, therein 
For the second time this pri­tive ads that were showing up. lies the contrast." Bush spoke m arv season. McCain was including one in which a with reporters after reading to app~aring by satellite, this breast cancer survivor says students at the Clearview time from St. Louis as he McCain opposed funding for Elementary School in Chula headed cast from California "vital breast cancer pro­Vista, Calif. for campaign stops in New grams" in New York. McCain criticized Bush for York. "My message is 'Governor advocating a $483 billion tax 
He made a similar remote Bush get out of the gutter,"' cut that he said would leave appearance in a December McCain said. "I have strongly the Social Security system in debate in Phoenix, each time supported breast cancer jeopardy. 
Tickets available Murder Mystery Theater at the LaFortune Info Desk, on sale until 
showing Monday, 
March 6. 


March 6, 2000 
For only $2 

8pm in Lafortune Ballroom 
you can enjoy 
this hilarious interactive 

murder mystery. <@>) 

www.nd.edu/-sub 
------------------------------, 





VIEWPOINT 
THE page 10 OBSERVER Friday, March 3, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. llox Q, Nom Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Din111g Hali. Notre Dame. IN 46556 

EDITOR fN CHIU Michelle Krupa MJ\NAGINC. EDITOR BTJSINFSS MANAGER 
M. Shannon Ryan David Rogcro AsST. MANAGING EDITOR 
Lama PeLe!le 
NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan 
V!FWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Caughen 
SPORTS EDITOR: l:lrian Kes.Jer 
SCF.NE F.DTTOR: Michael Vanegas 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie 
PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 

I\DVl'RTISTNG Mil.NAGER: B1;~.n lur1. 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat 
SYSTEMS Am,.flNISTRATOR: Michad Revers 
Wm ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROI.LFR; Timothy Lane 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
0FfJCE 1\1ANAGER/GENERAL INFO............6.31 ·7-171 FAx............................................................. 6.31-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................6J 1-6900/8840 
ohs.-rver@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDrTOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGfNG EDITOR/ASST. ME................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5.31.3 NEWS......................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT................................................631-530.3 observer.vi ewpoi n r. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edll SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT M,\RY's............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edll 
PHOTO.......................................................63 I -8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:l!observer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasts 
weekly studem reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rares ofprint ads 
cial c:arnpllS coverage 

archives ro search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the UniversicyofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Maiy's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on contenc. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Edicor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include comacr information. 
Questions regardmg Observer poiicm should be direct­ed fo Editor in ChiefMichelle Kmpa. 
DILBERT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


8-ball 'waterboy' angers community 
School still a 'cut above'? 
Since !{raduating from Notre Dame 38 years ago, I have always hPen proud to have bnen associatfld with thn University. Throughout the years iL always stood a "cut above" thfl othflrs. It has been a shining light in the great moral wastolancl we live in toclav. 
I never had to apologize for my school. That is, not until last night. What is wrong hero? ls tho mantfo too muC'.h to br,ar? Yes, I know it was only ono or two individuals who causpd the probl,•m, but what about those around tlrnm? Why this year? This incident only sprvcrl to highlight and conlirm the overall dPcline symbolizod in tlrn NCAA proba­tion. 
Yes, medio<'ritv is alwavs easim· than cxc0.llm1cn. Y0s, we can say we are like every.body els~: and wo can even blame someone else. 
If vou think I am out of toud1, vou ar0 wrong. I sent two chilarcn through Notre Dame in ·.87 and '93. It has changed since then. Wake up and take responsibility. This was a special institution. Don't !Pt ii be rnilll!(I' 
Lee Taddonio, '62 Murrysville, Pa. March 2, 2000 

Classy sportsmanship needed 
In March 1977, in a telfwiscd basketball ganrn bfltwcen Notre Dame and San Francisco, '\lBC selected the '\lotrn Dame student body as the game's MVP. 
I low times have changed. Win or lose, Notre Dame has always been synonymous with class and sportsmanship. 
Based on the actions demonstrated al the UConn and Syracuse basketball games, the University should bn embarrassed. 
The alumni are. 

Paul McDonnell Class of I977 March 2, 2000 
Students' behavior televised 
What has happened to the Notre Dame student body? After being known for decades as an intelligent, classy group of individuals, the norm seems to have turned to entirely classless behavior whenever sports are involved. 
Last fall, I witnessed the pelting of the USC band after the halftime show of a football game. A few weeks ago, we had the lJConn taunting incident and now our NCAA bid may have been destroyed by some idiots throwing things on the court. 
The fact that all of these events have happened on national TV certainly does little to help the image of the University. 
Please put a little thought into your future actions and stop tarnishing the reputation of the entire University. 
Sheila O'Connor 
Class of 1987 March 2, 2000 
SCOTT ADAMS 

Alumnus sees 'idiocy' 
To the student who threw tlw object onto the> floor of the Joyce Center causing a technical foul and costing Notre Dame the basketball game last night and very likely an NCAA berth: 
On behalf of all Notre Dame alumni. I would like to thank you so much for your idiocy and immaturity. As a young alum (law school Class of 1994), I, as many of my follow alums from the early to mid-19<J0s, havP seen Notre Dame athletics (with certain notable exceptions} go from top-cal­iber to the laughingstock of the collegn sports world. From the so-called "rnsignation" of' Coach Holtz, to the Dunbar episode, to the NCAA inquiry and probation, to the absolute lack of intelligent dncisiun-making on and off the football field by coaclws and players alike, to persist1mt nwdiocrity in the men's basketball program, wo have endun•d the march from first to worst in humiliating fashion. We havn handled the perpetual barbs and abuses heaped upon us by the many non-alums and Notre Dame-haters of the world. 
And now this. 
Just when the athletic department delivers to us desper­ate alumni a rare treat -a winning men's basketball pro­gram and a coach with real lire and personality, top-notch players with high levels of talent -Mr. Waterboy (and I rnally want to emphasize the word BOY) decides he is not happy with the call of the officials after having been warned by the coach and those same officials on two prior occasions, and throws his "wittle water bottle onto the floor in pwotest." Big move. little man, make a statement! You da man! 
So today, when you get up in your paid-for living accom­modations at one of the most prestigious universitios in the world, put on your little Abercrombie & Fitch outfit that Mommy and Daddy in Wilmette bought for you last Christmas and walk to class, think about this -think about all the alums who had to put on a suit and tie and walk into their law firms, brokerage houses, medical offices and accounting firms and hear the jeers from the Michigan. Northwestern and Purdue alums who live and die for moments like this when the Irish really blow it. 
Because you blew it for all of us. You blew it for the seniors on Senior Night, you blew it for Matt Doherty, you blew it for the entire men's basketball program, you blew it for all of your fellow students and you blew it for all us alumni who sat at home last night with the light song CD in our CD players, waiting, hoping and praying for an upset victory and an improbable NCAA berth. 
Thanks again, Waterboyl 
Mark Laughman 
Chicago, llL Match 2, 2000 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I hate sports as rabidly as a person who likes sports hates common sense." 
H.l. Menken 
author 







VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Friday, March 3, 2000 BSERVER page11 
Beware of scary taxi' adventures 
Last Friday, my friend Mary Anne had her 19th birthday. To crlcbratr, her friends and I decirfod Lo leave the pleasures oftbe South Dining Hall and 
eat dinner with called in our reqirnst her in a restau­and waited out.side. A rant where half-hour later, an klutws bearing eerilv similar van trays less frn­appe'ared. We climbed quenlly app()ar. in. Our now driver 
Overjoyed by greeted us and asked the prospect of our destination. having dinner "McGlinn flail," Heth without first hav­answered. 
ing a gauntlet for /\s he pulled out of 
food. we utilized the parking lot, he for­the rno<le of" off­Tuesday Voice got that Am'ericans campus trans­on Friday drive on the right side 


portation most readily avarlable to freshmPn: a cab. 
J\t 7 p.m., the familiar yel­low mini-vans arrived. I piled into tlrn first one with seven of my friends. Our fri!mdly but m atlrnmatjcally challenged driver insisted that he could transport nine of our group, despite the conspicuous pres­,mce of only seven seats. As other membors of our group expressed their desire not to sit on tlJP,ir friends' laps while noting the presence of two more vans, our driver grew visibly annoyed. I thought that he might physically grasp at tlw $2 walking away in the form of Marv Amw's room­mat1!. Angela. 
As our driver confirnrnd our 
T.G.I. Fridav desUnation, he placed his fimt on the gas and spr.d down Notre Dame Ave. I clutched the back seat. My knuckles turned white. My heart jumped as he barely avoidnd rear-ending another car. Obviously annoyed that his speodometer read only 40 miles per hour. he lamented the grandpa-like pace or the Huick in front of us but seized the opportunity to impart the wisdom of taxi drivers. 
"Have you ever been to New York?" he asked with his head fully facing thr. bark of the van. A few of us softly replied aflirmatively. "Well, you know those cabbies there drive crazy." 
As we tunrnd left onto Angela J\vc., we left the slow Buick behind. Inspired by an apparent subconscious wish to be Mario Andretti. our driver slammed on the gas pedal and llr.w through the light at Juniper. "That light must have been orange or pink." I thought. as we raced along Edison. Beth, who sat. directly in front of me, turned around wide-ryed and pale-faced. 
"Let's seP. if l cau get in front of these people," our driver exclaimed as he crossed two passed enjoyably but unevent­fully compared to our adven­turous journey them. After paying the bill, we searched 
the phone book for 
another taxi company, 
of the road and pro­ceeded to guide the van along the left side of the avenue between Meijer and the restaurants. Those of us in the cab were unable to speak dur­ing the terrifying 15-yard drive to the light at Grape Road. Our driver recognized his error as we turned left onto Grape. He redeemed himself by returning us safely to campus with his eyes and his cab on the right side of the road. 
My Friday night experience may have marked an extreme encounter with the incompe­tence of the local cab compa­nies. But travel in taxis usual­ly leaves me with an increased pulse itnd a greater apprecia­tion for the green mini-van that I drove at home. It may not have had air-conditioning or properly working wind­shield wipers, but at least I controlled it, for better or worse. 
However. the generally dan­gerous. reckless driving of the local taxi drivers, as illustrat­ed by our recent experience, should concern the University and inspire strong support within the administration for the success of an improved and expanded SafeRide pro­gram. Student drivers, not motivated by profit, have fewer reasons to speed or to drive carelessly. The driving tactics of some cab drivers in pursuit of the greatest volume of passengers possible may result in tragedies as terrible as those caused by inebriated students behind the wheel: 
Responsibility also falls on the shoulders of the students to demand safe transporta­tion. Piling 10, 11 or 15 people into a mini-van mav afford an adrenaline rush to ~ome on a Friday or Saturday night, but this abAts the irresponsible conduct of some taxi drivers. 
The crazv ones are not con­
fined to Ne"w York. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students' behavior unacceptable 
When Notre Dame's men's basketball team recorded a homecourt win over top-rankr~d San Francisco in 1977, NBC Sports named the Notre Dame student body as the MVP of the game. That's the sort of positive reputation our stu­dents have earned over the years. 
Unfortunately, the actions of a small number of students in rec.ent home basketball games have tainted that reputation. These incidents have been embarrassing for the University and have received extensive national media exposure. 
There's a fine line between what's appropriate and what's not appropriate when it comes to fans supporting their team. In these instances. a few Notre Dame students have crossed the line and conduct('d thPmselves in a manner that ca.n­not and will not be tolerated. · 
The athletic department and everyone associ­ated with the men's basketball program have worked to encourage attendance and interest from students, who can play a key role in helping to create the kind of atmosphere everyone wants to see in the Joyce Center. But there are stan­dards of bohavior that must be adhered to. and the behavior of this small number of students is simply unacceptable. 
As the season winds down and we hope our team qualifies for postseason play, please help us encourage the sort of behavior that we must come to expect from our students and fans. There's no reason that those in attendance at games cannot enjoy themselves, make noise and support the team without engaging in the sort of conduct that gives all of us a black eye and can even penalize our team. 
We must insist on nothing less. 
Father Mar~ Poorman Vice President for Sttldent Affairs March 2, 2000 



Health conversations must continue on campus 
In response to an anonymous letter to the edi­tor, entitled "Get with it, Health Services" (Feb. 28). addressing a lost lab sample, I'd like to say a sincere "thank you" to the writer. This person has given me the opportunity to respond to an unfortunate incident and to invite students to be more involved with their health care and issues of wellness on campus. 
I regret that your blood sample was misplaced by the South Bend Medical Foundation (SBMF). an independent satellite provider of laboratory services at University Health Center. This is truly a RARE occurrence. 
The laboratory technician and registered nurse on duty recognized and understood vour concern and anxiety while waiting for the results to return. When the results had not arrived in 24 hours, the SBMF 
laboratory technician at the Health Center took it upon herself to call the Medical Foundation's main processing 

•
lab on vour behalf. It was at this time th.at SBMF realized they had not begun to process your sample and could not track it. They assured her they would immedi­ately begin the search. At 4:45 p.m. that after­noon, Health Services was notified that your lab sample was not located. You were immediately notified that if you came to the Health Center, the Jab technician would immediately draw another sample before the weekend. The results would be available on Monday. You refused because of the inconvenient time and decided to wait until Monday for the repeat test. There were no additional charges. While this is a very disconcerting event in your life, the professional nurse and laboratory technician did everything p~ssible to support you and to address the prob­lem. 
You asked the question, "Am I just overreact­ing?" No one would ever judge your feelings or reactions in this disturbing and anxiety-produc­
ing situation. However, one should 
acknowledge that life isn't always perfect, and one will be involved in situations or circumstances out of one's control. How one addresses and han­dles those times will· either cause an inappropriate 
response with further frustra­tion and inner 
turmoil or allow for the opportunity for reflection ­"There must be a lesson in 

here some­place!" I invite all stu­dents on campus to become involved in health care and wellness issues. Open commu­nication allows for active dialogue that fur­thers education and construc­tive changes. Our student adviso­
ry board is in the process of broaden­ing its scope of responsibilities and activities. Its goal is to engage more students in participating in health care issues on campus by unifying and directly linking health and wellness issues addressed by University Health Services with student concerns. As "anonymous" has suggest­ed, "let your problems be known" so that appro­priate attention and response can be provided. 
Ann Thompson 
Director, Universiry Health Services MJrch 2, 2000 

lanes of trallic and left four rnragcd drivers in his wake. "I las he no fear?" I thought. "llasn't he ever watched '20/20'?" Road rage is real today. 
Hefuge, disguised as T.G.I. rriday's, appeared on our right. At the door to the restaurant, we each paid our $2 fee and vowed to call another company for the ride back to campus. Dinner 

Joanna Mikulski is a frPshman from McGlinn Hall. !Jer column appears every 
other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily thosP of The Observer. 

w v-ite to v\S. (yoLA know yot,\ want to.) viewpoint.1 @nd .edt1 

T H 
cene E R 
O
THE 

The six-time Tony award winning Broadway smash "Chicago -the Razzle Dazzle Broadway Musical" is packed with sex appeal, humor and murders. Guaranteed to thrill and enrapt all audiences, the show can be seen this weekend at The Morris Performing Arts Center in South Bend. 
Sex, murder and the ol' song and dance 
Scene takes a look at 'Chicago -the Razzle Dazzle Broadway Musical,' playing in downtown South Bend this weekend 
CAROL ROSEGG/Anita Dloniak & Associates 

By BRIAN SEAMAN 
Scene Theater Writer 
It's got the makings of an evening the Catholic Church would condemn. It's got voluptuous women in costumes akin to late-night lingerie. It's got a si.Ipulated orgy com­bining these women and ultra-muscular men. It's got 
seven murders, an execution and a ton of sex. Oh yeah, and it's a musical. 
Combining all the elements of pure show biz flash, "Chicago -the Razzle 
Dazzle Broadway Musical" slinks its way onto the stage of the Morris Civic Auditorium in South Bend for three performances this weekend. 
Originally written in 197 5 by the master Broadway son~Titing team of John Kander and Fred Ebb, "Chicago" 
tells the cynical tale of Roxie Hart, a nightclub dancer who kills her lover in a jealous ragfl. She then dupes the 
public and media by hiring Chicago's shrewdest lawyer, who ultimately turns her crime into celebrity head­lines and gets her acquitted. 
The plot line, seemingly ripped from today's headlines, appears to be more timely and fitting to a media­obsessed society than it was when originally produced in 1975. 
Riding the coattails of celebrity criminals such as O.J. Simpson, the revival of "Chicago" on Broadway h_as tightened the plot to fit these modern precedents with hilarity. 
This shift in public attention seems to have benefited the Broadway production and touring companies of "Chicago," now in their fourth year and still playing to enthusiastic packed audiences. 
Roxanne Carrasco and Tracy Shayne, the stars of the touring company arriving in South Bend this weekend, hope the reaction will be similar here. 
"This show is exactly what an audience is looking for," 
-
'Chicago ­


Dazzle Broadway Musical' 
. 
Where: The Morris Performing Arts Center 

. 
When: Today, 8 p.m.; Saturday 2 p.m. & 8 p.m.; Sunday 1:30 p,m. & 7 p.m. 

. 
Tickets: $20-$50, student, senior and group discounts available 

. 
Call 245-6085 to order 



said Carrasco, who plays Velma Kelly, pumped up versions of our­
"It ['Chicago'} is witty, exciting 
Roxie's murderous competitor for head­selves."
and most of all, very sexy. It
lines. "It is witty, exciting and most of Relatively new to the all, very sexy. It isn't like anything on isn't like anything on Broadway show, after playing leading Broadway right now." roles in "Les Miserables,"
right now. " 
When revived in 1996, "Chicago" was "The Phantom of the staged as a concert of sorts, a three-Opera" and "A Chorus 
the Razzle 

and bikinis, all spiced together with fishnet stockings and black high heels. The men were substantially more clothed but still, little was left to the imagination. 
Even though the concert was conceived to run for only a weekrmd. the response was so tremendous that the musical transferred to Broadwav for an extended run in nearly Lhe exact form as the concert version. 
The touring company of "Chicago," arriving in South Bend this weekend, is fundamentally identical to its Broadway sister yet with several unique elements added for this production. 
Shayne. who plays Roxie Hart. the murderous main character, suggests this uniqueness is what makes "Chicago" so engrossing. 
"This company is truly a big family, and with us travel­ing around and living together everywhere we go, that comes out on stage," she said. "We arc all playing 
night event with Roxane Carrasco Line," Shayne speaks of the 
high profile stars and minimal dis­tractions from elaborate sets or costumes. 
While this concert was fully staged and choreographed, the physical set was little more than a rectangular band shell center stage, a small staircase and a dozfln or so black chairs. The orchestra was in full view of the audience, thus adding to the the­atricality of the evening. 
The costumes, while stunning in their own way, were once again minimal. Women wore an amal­gamation of black negligee, slips 
actress electric camaraderie 
between her and co-star 

Carrasco, despite the war­ring and conniving ways of the characters they play. 
"It is like we are sisters; we call each other 'sister girl­friend' and have the times of our lives out there on stage," she said. "Acting with great friends while playing a dream role ... what more could you ask for." · 
Besides the extremely tight-fitting and revealing cos­tumes, the actresses recommend college students to attend for many other reasons. 
"College students who have come to 'Chicago' before can tell you that this show is fun, fast paced and very adult," said Shayne. "This musical involves the audience the whole way through and is filled with that sexy Fosse choreography which is so hot today." 
Hot is definitely one way to describe "Chicago," and it is a rare opportunity that South Bend receives a produc­tion of this caliber and popularity. Tickets are as cheap as $20 (before student discount) and the show promises to provide the same evening of "drop-dead" entertain­ment as tho Broadway production. 
The leading actresses recommend the show using a scene from the opening number. The stage is filled with a very sexy chorus of dancers inviting the audience to listfln up, singing "Come on, babe, why don't we paint the town? And all that jazz." 
Following that opening number and the evening of high gloss and adult entertainment that follows, it seems the question should rather be "Why not?" "Chicago ­the Musical" is a rare theater treat for South Bend, and if its worldwide sensation is any judge for this town, the show is sure to be an evening well spent. 







GAL 
BOUTS 
O
THE Friday, March 3, 2000 BSERVER page 1 

JOHN DAILY/The Observer 

Senior captains J.R. Mellin (seated) and Tom Biolchini return to the ring tonight in search of repeat Bengal Bouts titles. See page 4 of the insert and page 16 of The Observer for more on these hard-hitting captains. 
page 2 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March 3, 2000 

120 LB. 

vs. 


SHAWN NEWBERG JIMMY FISHBURNE 
130 LB. 
~·.,. 
','..,· 
t 

vs. 
,.ri_,1ii4, 


CAMILO RUEDA MATT FUMAGALLI 
PICKS KEVIN BERCHOU Fishburne BRIAN BURKE Fishburne BILL HART Fishburne KERRY SMITH Fishburne 

Both James "Pirahna'' Fishburne and Shawn "Knockout The Old And Bring In The" Newberg are making just their second appearance at Bengal Bouts, although Newberg has faced a tougher opponent. 
Fishburne was hardly tested against an over­matched foe in the semifinals, but is the top seed and rightfully so. He has the best power in the division and will try to employ it in the finals. 
Newberg knows how to beat a fighter who comes out swinging and should not be counted out if he takes some shots early. 
-Brian Burke 
PICKS KEVIN BERCHOU Fumagalli BRIAN BURKE Fumagalli BILL HART Rueda KERRY SMITH Rueda 



160 LB. 
Second seed Camilo "Rollin"' Rueda could have his hands full with Matt "The Don" Fumagalli when the two meet tonight. 
Rueda worked his way inside, landing just a few more jabs than his opponent to win a split decision in the semifinals. Not one to slug it out, Rueda's plan likely will be to capitalize on mistakes. 
Fumagalli comes off an all-out battle in the semifi­nals and has proven he can take a fighter's best shot. If it comes down to trading punches, Fumagalli should have the edge. 
Rueda and Fumagalli have distinctly different styles, and whichever one dictates the tempo of the fight should take the title. 
-Brian Burke 


155 LB. 

vs. 



vs. 


CHRIS MATASSA P.J. DUWORS 
P.J. "Downtown" DuWors seems to get better
PICKS 
each time he enters the ring. He has followed each spectacular performance with an even beter
KEVIN 
one. DuWors will look to go to town on ChrisBERCHOU Matassa in what is shaping up as terrific tustle. DuWors advanced to the bouts' ultimate fight
Duwors 
after knocking off Joseph "The Polygamist" Smith
BRIAN BURKE 
in a close split decision. Matassa DuWors will work predominantly with his jab, a strategy that has served him well. BILL HART Matassa will likely give DuWors all he can han­dle, but DuWors' speed and stamina figure to
DuWors 
carry him to a close win. 
KERRY SMITH 
-Kevin Berchou 

DuWors 


180 LB. 

vs. 



MARKCRINITI JOEY LENISKI 
Mark Criniti earned respect by upsetting the sec­
PICKS 
ond seed in a unanimous decision on Tuesday. His deftly timed punches showed patience and compo­
KEVIN 
sure against one of the most heavily respectedBERCHOU fighters in the competition. Even more impressive, though, was his use of
Leniski 
combinations to score a knockout against his quar­BRIAN BURKE terfinal opponent. Joey Leniski faced two difficult opponents with varied fighting styles, but his reac­
Leniski 
tions proved why experience can be sm:h a critical BILL HART factor in the later bouts. While a heavy dependence on his hook might be 
Leniski 
his weakness, his opponents have yet to find a way KERRY SMITH to beat it. 
-Bill Hart 

Criniti 


JEFF DOBOSH 
PICKS KEVIN BERCHOU Mehan BRIAN BURKE Mehan BILL HART Mehan KERRY SMITH Dobosh 


PAUL MEHAN 
In what should be one of the night's best bouts Paul "He-Man" Mehan has the slightest of edges over Jeff "The Pittsburgh Kid" Dobosh. 
Mehan's advantage lies in his power. The bruis­er advanced to tonight's final by way of a spec­tacular TKO of Robert "The Skinny Ginnea" Vuolo. Mehan will come out firing just as he has in earlier rounds. His offensive charges will be met head on by a fiesty Dobosh. 
Dobosh gained a finals bid on the strength of a hard-fought split decision over Tom "The Pretender" Pierce. 
Both fighters will make this one a slugfest. 
-Kevin Berchou 


175 LB. 

vs. 

JOSH THOMPSON TOM BIOLCHINI 
PICKS KEVIN BERCHOU Thompson BRIAN BURKE Biolchini BILL HART Thompson KERRY SMITH Biolchini 

The two-time champ takes to the finals again, this time sporting an assaulting boxing style that has earned him two lopsided victories this year. Whether Biolchini gets a third title depends on his ability to keep his opponent off guard with the same steady deluge of combinations. 
Josh Thompson's caution in the semifinals belies a certain degree of calmness, but he can not afford to stay on the defensive for too long against Biolchini's aggressive style. If Thompson stays with the flurry of combinations he used throughout the third round, it could mean cur­tains for the top seed. 
-Bill Hart 

Friday, March 3, 1999 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS page 3 

140 LB. 


vs. 


MICHAEL WALDO KURT WILSON 
Kurt Wilson against Mike "The Motor City

PICKS 

Madman" Waldo is power against power. Wilson has been especially effective when he gets
KEVIN 

his opponent backed into the ropes and uses a goodBERCHOU jab and tough uppercut. In prior contests he had to worry about getting after fighters that danced in
Waldo 
and out.

BRIAN BURKE 
That will not be the case in the finals, as Waldo Wilson will let the fists fly early and often. He has made a surprising run to the. championship bout with the
BILL HART 
simple strategy of fighting rather than boxing.Wilson This should be one of the night's most exciting fights. Expect plenty of fireworks, and the man who
KERRY SMITH 
hits harder will win. Waldo -Brian Burke 


165 LB. 

vs. 


DON PENN SEAN NOWAK 
Many believe the 165-pound division is the Bouts'
PICKS 

deepest, making this clash one of the night's most anticipated fights. Sean "The Erie Kid" Nowak
KEVIN 

demonstrated himself as perhaps the favorite withBERCHOU an emotional decision over Tim "Rock" O'Rourke. With the outcome in doubt heading into the final
Nowak 

round, Nowak mounted a charge that proved justBRIAN BURKE enough to turn the bout in his favor. "The Erie Kid," however, will face the toughest of tests when
Penn 

he meets Don "The Destroyer" Penn tonight. BILL HART "The Destroyer" has lived up to his monnicker, quickly dispatching his opponents, but the pick
Nowak 

here is Nowak, who seems to get stronger as the KERRY SMITH fight goes on. 
-Keuin Berchou 
Penn 



190 LB. 

vs. 


MIKE HAMMES KEVIN BRANDL 
Hammes looked a little shaky in the semifinals,
PICKS 

but he still managed to get the "W" and move on. With the butterflies quenched, he should look much 
KEVIN 

more confident and prepared. While he may notBERCHOU have the reach. Hammes' varied offensive weapons and tactics will keep his opponent guessing. 
Hammes 

Brandl's defeat of Jason Rodriguez on Tuesday was BRIAN BURKE one of the most shocking upsets of the night. His strategy has been simple: Be aggressive early and 
Brandl 

prevent movement. In order to win, the Dillon BILL HART sophomore must bo able to effectively contain his opponent to one corner like he has in the last two 
Hammes 

fights. At the same time, he can't let Hammes to mount a late-round comeback. 
KERRY SMITH 
-Bill Hart 
Hammes 



150 LB. 

vs. 

DENNIS ABDELNOUR J.R. MELLIN 
J.R. "Maddog" Mellin and Dennis "The Natural

PICKS 
Disaster" Abdelnour have both advanced with rela­tive ease into the finals, yet in very different ways. 
KEVIN 

Mellin has relied on sound technique, landingBERCHOU effective combinations and never getting into trou­ble en route to the title bout. The senior captain
Mellin 

goes for his second championship tonight, and his BRIAN BURKE experience will be a significant factor. Abdelnour is a pure puncher, and he has the
Mellin 

knockouts to prove it. Being such a hard hitter, he has a great shot to at the title if he can land enough 
BILL HART 
hooks. Also, as a left-handed fighter, Abdelnour
Mellin 

gives Mellin an added dimension to prepare for. 
KERRY SMITH 
-Brian Burke 
Mellin 



170 LB. 

'',,\
Photo not 
, , ii;,',,, < , ,, l
vs. 
'


available ­
' 
. 

ROB JOYCE BRIAN HOBBINS 
Something will have to give when Brian "Hoppe" 
PICKS 
Hobbins meets Rob "Golden Schlager" Joyce. Both fighters have rolled through their respective
KEVIN 
halves of the brackets with brutal efficiency, mak­BERCHOU ing this bout the first real test for both fighters. Though both fighters are of comparable ability,
Hobbins 
Hobbins gets the edge on the basis of heart.
BRIAN BURKE 
"Hoppe" has shown the ability to dig deep and pull Hobbins out all the stops late in his fights for convincing victories.BILL HART Joyce is a dazling inside fighter, and his upper­cuts connect with brutal force. Still, it's Hobbins in 
Joyce 
a close one. 

KERRY SMITH -Keuin Berchou Hobbins 




HEAVY WEIGHT 

vs. 


DAN ADAM PETER RYAN 
With only two fights between them in this year's
PICKS 
tourney, both fighters should be well-rested and composed heading into tonight. Ryan's experience 
KEVIN 
as a captain gives him a bit of an advantage in the 
BERCHOU 
later bouts, but his agility and reach have proved to be his best assets. The lack of fighting hasn't made
Adam 

Ryan complacent; in Tuesday's semifinal, his oppo­BRIAN BURKE nent hit the canvas twice in the third round. No one should dismiss Adam's power, however, 
Ryan 

as it was shown when he knocked down his semifi­BILL HART nal opponont twice within a 30-second span. If Ryan lets his guard down for even a moment, it 
Ryan 

could be the opportunity Adam needs. 
KERRY SMITH -Bill Hart Ryan 



GALii/ BOUTS
...~.­

O
THE page4 BSERVER Friday, March 3, 2000 
Biolchini carries on family tradition 
By SHANNON RYAN Sports Writer 
Gluing broken furniture together has been a part of Fran Biolchini's life for more than two decades. 
\\'hen her four boys sparred in the living room, the mother of six figured finding a collapsed end table was better than fixing a son's cracked nose. 
Boxing gloves were always in a nearby corner in the Hiolchini' s Tulsa, Okla., home. The punch­ing bag was in the basement. And couches in the living room became ringside seats for the boys' matches. 
Especially when mom left the house. 
"When their mother would go out of town, I'd get the gloves right on them." Bob Biolchini remembered. "I taught them early on about boxing. I'd hoped they'd learn to defend them­selves and appreciate the sport." 
Forty years ago, Dwight Eisenhower was in office, the Beatles' "Hey Jude" topped the charts, Irish football had finished 2-S under Coach Joe Kuharich and Bob Biolchini began a lega­cy. 
Bob trained his sons Bob Jr., Doug, Toby and Tom to follow his footsteps that led to the ring in the center of the JACC at Notre Dame. 
He earned the first of his two Bengal Bouts championships in 1960. Since then, his sons have helped Notre Dame equate box­huge," Tom said after Tuesday's On Tuesday, Tom even said. 'Tm going out there with from trying to protect himselfing with Biolchini. 
semifinal win over senior Tom thanked the guy who had the attitude to win." from the heavy blows. 
Bob and Fran have sent four Dietrich. "It's my last time so I clocked him hard enough in the One of the many lessons he "Nappy wanted to teach me sons and one daughter, Frannie, hope this last fight's going to be first round of the semis to threat­learned from his dad, who lost about humility," Bob said. 
a 1993 graduate, to Notre Dame. 
a good one. I used to think about en Tom's claim on the finals. his final fight as a senior. Lesson learned. 
Not surprisingly Christi, the 
my fights. Now, I think about the "God, hell of a fight," Tom said, "I came up under [Dominic] "What I love about it the mostyoungest Biolchini and a high end of the season. Now, I think, shaking hands with Dietrich 'Nappy' Napolitano," said Bob, is ... that you're giving it yourschool freshman, has expressed 'God, this is it for me."' after the fight. "Thanks for the referring to the former boxing entire all," Tom said. "You go
interest in attending Notre 
"Baby Tommy," as his family wake-up call, dude." coach of 55 years, who revital­out there with so much to lose orDame. 
called him, became the Biolchini He was more appreciative for ized the program. "He made so much at risk. There's theSince Bob's days in the Bouts, main attraction when he dared another chance in the ring. sure to teach you lessons in life embarrassment of gettingevery Biolchini son has jumped to go up against his big brother. Awaiting his final fight Friday, along with coaching you in box­knocked out and the fear that 
ropes in the JACC's training 
As young as 5, Tom practiced his Tom is wide-eyed now. ing." you're not going to throw the rooms, raised money for the Holy jabs on Toby, who is three years "[Being a senior] does add Tom and his brothers grew up right type of punches. It's very
Cross Missions in Bangladesh 
older and loomed at what pressure, but sometimes it's the listening to stories of Bob's humbling.
and traded punches in the ring. 
seemed .a foot taller. pressure that helps you in a Bengal Bouts' battles. "No matter how hard-assThey have served as club presi­"My dad always sided with fight," said Tom, who participat-Bob displayed his old captain's someone is'; everyone is scared to
dents, captains, undefeated 
him," said Toby, ed in soccer, jacket for his sons. He told them really get in there," he contin­champs and coaches. The family now a Bengal football and about watching Muhammed Ali's ued. "I have butterflies before
is even planning a summer trip "What I like most about 
Bouts' coach. wrestling in red gloves pound a southpaw in every fight because I know any­to Bangladesh. 
"He thought he'd this sport ... is that high school. Germany. He taught them his 1-thing can happen.... I could goFriday night, the final chapter have to protect you 're giving it your all. "I [want] to 2-3 combination and how easy it against the worst boxer in theof the Biolcini boxing story, him ... I think go out there is to walk into the punches of a world and he could get one lucky
which spans four decades, will You go out there with so 
now my dad and have lefty. punch and I'm done." 
end as the youngest Biolchini son would have to be much to lose ... It's very fun." He also passed along the para­But not before Friday when his fights in the finals. 
protecting me." humbling." N o t r e bles he learned from Nappy. family flies into South Bend to sit Tom, a senior captain, four­Sometimes, Dame wasn't A family favorite is the one in his corner. 
year veteran and youngest male the family still is Tom's only where Nappy tells Bob to get in For the first time, Fran willBiolchini, will face junior Josh 
Tom Biolchini
stunned to see choice. the ring against the football watch her youngest son fight ­Thompson for his third straight Tom on the Another deci­team's guard Nick Buoniconti. At a tradition in the Biolchini family title. Bumped up 10 pounds into attaek. sion, howev­that time, all of the football play­is that she watches each sonthe 175-pound class to spread He was the er, probably ers were required to box and fight once. During preliminaries out the competition, "The Tulsa family peacemaker. He was the wouldn't have been quite as pop­Bob had to spar against one of and semifinals, she sits by theBomber" has successfully chal­boy who went to bed on time ular in the Biolchini household. the biggest. phone and prays.
lenged fighters who outweigh without mom's nagging, earning "I knew that if I came here, I'd Outweighed by almost 50 "Actually, when I'm there l get him by nearly 20 pounds. 
him the nickname "farmer." box," Tom said. "That wasn't pounds, Bob f'earlessly laid into caught up in the spirit of it," sheAfter losing as a freshman in "The surprising part is how even really a question. For like his opponent and split his nose. said. "But it's my job to stay herethe semit"mals to an experienced aggressive Tom can be for being two seconds. I was like, 'Oh, I'm "My dad went crazy after in Tulsa and say the rosary until graduate student, Rich Malloy, as gentle as he is," his mom Fran going to try other schools.' But him," Tom recalled, his eyes get­I hear they're OK.
Tom won his next two champi­said. "He was just a big, gentle, down deep, I knew I had always ting bigger as he retells his dad's "It's hard to care for someoneonship bouts. 
caring person." wanted to come here. Not that I story. "And all this blood was and see them box," she added. 
As a sopi1omorc, he defeated A leddv bear with the instincts felt pressure by any means, but I coming down from his mouth. If Tom wins the final BiolchiniChip Farrell in a split decision of a grizzly. knew I'd have such a great expe­He said he went over to the cor­bout of this generation, he, hisfor the 160-pound title. In his Tom was the leading high rience [here)." ner in the ring and he looked brothers and dad will celebratejunior season, known as "Polly school tackler in Oklahoma as a Even though winning isn't over and saw the meanest look with victory cigars. 
Prissy Pants," Torn beat Don linebacker, but helped up every guaranteed, Biolchini likes the he's ever seen." His mom said she can be found 
Penn in the 165-pound class, 
guy he had just crushed. He still chances. The next two rounds weren't at the Grotto, thanking Mary forwith his three brothers coaching apologizes to Toby after landing "lf I lose on Friday, that won't so kind to Bob. The next day his giving her sons who break furni­and cheering from his corner. 
an exceptionally solid jab. take away a single thing," he forearms were lined with bruises ture but keep their bones intact. 
"It's my senior year, so this is 


See page 16 in the sports section for a feature on Bengals Bouts senior captain J.R. Mellin. 
T H 
E R
~ne 
OTHE Friday, March 3, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
HA's show is weird, funny and all for you 
"/ guess f'lljust throw in the towel By MARY ANNE LEWIS Stop sending choc-latPs and randy Scene Writer And she'll never again 
At3a.m. 

"All right, we decided who'd go first backstage, and, Get phone calls when I'm feeling randy." Tony, I believe you had the fattest girlfriend. You're in ~from "The Song ofStalking" control of the board." 
-from "Let's Get Personal" This is the group that calls itself 1-L-'\. And· this is what they're doing on Sundays and Somewhere, sometime, somebody decided it Thursdays during their practices. might be fun to pretend to be other people. Humor Artists They do sketch comedy as well as And, voila'. the actor was born! improvisational work, and you Somewhere in Indiana, in a little town called can see it all on Friday or South Bend, about eight years ago, somebody . Where: Library Saturday night at 8 p.m. in the started the gn_mp called Humor Artists, better Library Auditorium. Thr group
Auditorium 

known as HA And now, while you are sleep­has approximately 25 members, 
. When: Today &

ing or studying or eating, they are pretending both men and women, who range to be other people in strange, but often farnil­Saturday from bio-chom to English majors. iar situations. Creepy? No. It's quite funny, Andrew McDonnell, known as the
. Time: 8 p.m.

actually. "King," and Holly Hoffmann, the 
MARY CALASHfThe Observer

. Tickets: $1 "Queen," organize and direct the 
The "Humor Artists" go over Ideas for their improvisational skits. 
Improvisation: 7.) the act or art ofimprovis-meetings and try to keep the chaos 

After months of practice, they're ready to make you laugh.
ing; 2.) something (as a musical or dramatic composition) somewhat manageable. It neve"r seems to improvised. or arranged offhand work, though. "It's a pretty chaotic group, mally," McDonnell said, laughing. spunk, personality and charm. Individual HA members 
Picture this: 25 people -19 men and six women -in When asked to state his favorite thing about HA, bring a montage of interests and ideas to the spirit of the the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. They sit on the stage . McDonnell answered, "Hmm ... The free drugs ... NO, no! group. Some members may become doctors, others actors and read over sketch comedy skits a few of them have The people are amazing. You grow to love them." in L.A., others writers. But for now, they'll stick with vvritten. Someone makes a suggestion: "Change that. Have McDonnell has spent three and a half years with HA and bringing you ludicrous scenarios for your laughing plea­the guy come in on the left and THEN bump into her ... " has loved his experiences ,vith the group. He has a great sures. Somebody else affirms the modification. deal of respect for previous "King," Denis Hurley. 
Suddenly, out of the blue, two guys jump onto their feet McDonnell calls Hurley the driving force behind HA, "And those are the disturbing details of a night in a and begin acting out the skit. It, too, jumps to its feet and because Hurley kept the group together during a very dry girls' dorm. The FCC will not allow us to show the brutal comes alive. A Notre Dame biology student has become a period. McDonnell recalls Hurley's nickname, a certain assault on James Van der Beek that took place here subsP-. highschool teacher, and her real-life classmate is now, in anatomical feature exclusively male, also a word that hap­quently. Notre Dame security was alerted by an anony­this world that they've created. a janitor who will soon dis­pens to be one letter away from his first name. mous tip but . . . they arrived too late. If you know the cover the teacher is actually an impostor. She is really the Somehow, this chaotic group has managed to pull whereabouts of James Van der Beek, please call us toll­infamous mop-thief, wanted by campus security divisions together an incredible show brought to you for only $1. free at 1-800-Unsolved. Good night." everywhere. These worlds are crazy ones, but you may be Hours of practice, months of editing and rewriting and -from "Unsolved Feminine Mysteries" surprised to see just how real it can all appear. endless jokes are what this group does. It's a group with 
Play shows endurance of spirit 
heartaches and disappointments life has thrown their
By lAURA KELLY 
way. While each woman copes differently with her 
Scene Wricer 
despairs and frustrations, the three are ultimately brought together by a mining accident that irrevocably"I was born in a: small town, and I live in a small town . , . changes their lives. Prob'ly die in a small town, that's prob'ly where they'll 
Directed by senior Christina Kolski, a psychology and bury me." 
film, television and theater (FTT) major, "Between Daylight and Boonville" is one of

'Between

Washington Hall lab theatre's newest pro­
the earliest and most successful plays by 
duction, "Between Daylight and Boonville," Daylight and Matt Williams, the creator of TV sitcoms opens with the sounds of John Cougar 
Boonville' "Roseanne" and "Home Improvement." In Mellencamp's "Small Town." The song's sim­
keeping with Williams's comic traditions,
ple lyrics are a fitting beginning for the drama 
the show's irrepressible humor found in about life in a trailer park in southern . Where: Washington dark moments is one of its highlights. 
Indiana's strip mining country. Hall "[It's] a play that makes you laugh and Showing tonight and Saturday at 7 :30 p.m. 
cry at the same time," Kolski said. 
in the lab theater, "Between Daylight and . When: Today & 
The laughing games of Marlene's and Boonville" tells the stories of three women -Saturday Carla's children and the antics of CyrilCarla (Elizabeth Van Westen), Marlene (Rose 
(John Schmiederer), a lovable prankster,Cassey) and Lorette (Kathy Koch) -all \•lives . Time: 7:30 p.m. 
add much comic relief and keep the action 
of poor, itinerant coal miners. Seated on a 
flowing. Another source of dark humor is simple stage between the two screen doors of their trail­the spiteful feuding between hot-tempered Carla and the ers, the three friends struggle to understand the town flirt, Wanda (Colleen Slusser). Roles like Carla's and Wanda's attracted . MARY CALASHfThe Observer Kolski to choose "Between Daylight and 
The cast comes together to create a believable 
Boonville" for her FTT Advanced Directing 

world and provide a window to the human condition. 
Project back in August. "I liked this show because it has a lot of strong female leads, which 
In contrast with the desolation found in the trailer cow-t, 
is rare," she said. "It is a great opportunity for 
"Between Daylight and Boonville" is blessed with a well­
wom.~n to come out and really show their tal­
written script and a talented cast. When asked about the ents. 
most satis(ying aspect of directing her first full production,
Iler enthusiasm for the play reveals her per­
a two-hour show, Kolski replied, "My favorite part of 
sonal connection: "I chose this show becauso I 
directing is watching the whole process unfold from begin­
was in it when I was 7 years old, as one of the 
ning to end. A lot of actors get the rush of opening night play's three children." · and the rush of performances, but I really love the day-to­
Kolski's previous acting and directing expcri• 
day stuJI. even rehearsals! It is an amazing rush when you 
ence is evident in the polished, professional per­
are probing an actor to convey a certain emotion and they
formances of her actors. The leads are impecca­
finally get it. It's a very big high for me." 
bly cast and well rehearsed, while the show's 
It is clear Kolski has succeeded in reaching her actors. 
three children set an cager and light-hearted 
From the opening scene, the audience easily slips into the 
contrast to their mothers' distresses and tor­
characters' small world of complicated relationships light­ments. 
ened by easy-going banter. As the drama progresses, the
The cast creates a world of believable charac­
simple life of this small town becomes anything but simple,
ters, centered on Carla, a young wife torn 
entangled with affairs and secrets and shattered dreams.
between the only liie she knows and a restless 
"['Between Daylight and Boonville' is] a play about life,
desire for something more, something greater. 
how people deal with stressful times and traumatic
Certainly any college student tormented by the 
events," Kolski said. 
nagging questions of what to do with one's life 
For the audiences lucky enough to experience this sliver MARY CALASHfThe Observer can sympathize with Carla's longings: "I could be 
of Americana this weekend, this treasure of' a production"Between Daylight and Boonville" presents a strong, female­good at something, if I knew what it was, if I will leave them with a deeper appreciation of humancould just find it ... But there's nothing here." 
dominated cast showcasing talent in expressing emotion. resiliency and the strength of hope. 



page 14 Thr Obsemer . CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 3, 2000 
MEN'S TENNIS 


Irish head to sunny California 
By RACHEL BIRER 
Sports Wrirer 
ThP Irish hope to get more than a nke tan whim they trav­PI to sunnv 
California this weekend. Notre Dame's men's tennis squad is headed to La Jolla. California, for the 104th Pacific Coast Doubles (hampionships, which will be played from Friday to Sunday. The Irish will br representPd by fivr doubles teams. who will enter the draw against professional. collegiale, and top junior player.s from n.11 over the world. "We're really excited," Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. "It's a premiere event. We'll be very challenged and il wiil be great for our play­
ers." 
Sophomores Aaron Talarico and Javier Taborga. currently ranked a 
season-high 31st. stand as the top duo for the Irish, and will seek lO 
improve their 12-5 season record. With their recent victo­ry over the 44th-ranked Northwestern doubles team of Joost llol and Brad Erickson. Taborga and Talarico brought their record against ranked foes to 6-0 on the year. The formida­ble Irish pairing has won six of eight matches in 2000, includ­ing an 8-5 win over the 14th­ranked team of Matt Amgwerd and Nie Dubey from New Mexico in January. A five­match win streak is on the line for Taborga and Talarico as they face-off against an elite field this weekend. 
Irlsh captain and · AII­America.n Ryan Sachire is paired up with Trent Miller to form another team for the Irish. The all-senior doubles duo has been rock solid at the No. 2 position throughout the season, nutching two dominating wins against the doubles teams ol' Purdue and Northwestern in last weekend's dual matches. The Irish will also be represent­ed by sophomores Casey Smith and James Malhame, who have teamed up at No. 3 doubles in eight of ten dual matches in :woo. Smith and Malhame trnve a 4-3 mark on the year, inducting a crucial 8-5 win over Kentucky's Edo Bawono and Johan Grunditz. which clinched I.he doublr,s point in thP dual­match victory. 
Malt Daly and Ashok Baju will also team up for the Irish this weekend in California, along with the pairing of Andrew Laflin and Brian Parrell. Although Notre Dame sends the bulk of' its squad to tlrn evont, the outcome holds no bf'aring on team rankings or records. Coach Hayliss is looking for­ward to tht> California sun and sees the opportunity lo play out­side as advantagpous to his team's progress. "It's a great way to break in and adjust to playing outdoors," lfayliss said. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Rocker arrives at spring training 
Associated Press 
KISSIMMEE. Fla. 

John Rocker stood alone in the middle of the Atlanta Braves clubhouse, his eyes revealing a hint of tears. 
It's one thing to be heckled by 
55.000 fans in New York. it's quite anoth­er to face the harsh sr.rutiny of vour team­mates and coaches. Especially when you've called one of them a "fat mon-


CLASSIFIEDS 
key" in a magazine interview, and disparaged gays. foreigners and minorities, too. 
Third-base coach Ned Yost angrily asked Rocker to explain how he could offend so many people. 
Outfielder Heggie Sanders demanded remorse and accountability. 
Reserve first baseman 
Randall Simon wanted to know 
Hocker's true feelings about his 
Latin teammates. 
When it was over. Rocker was hardly the cocky reliever who saved 38 games for the Atlanta Braves a year ago. Instead. he pleaded with his teammates, "Please, guys, let me play." 
Rocker put on a Braves uni­form for the first time since the World Series on Thursday after an independent arbitrator cut his suspension in half. reduced his fine and allowed him to niport to spring training. 
Commissioner Bud Selig <irigi­nally suspendP.d Rocker for all of spring training and the first 28 days of the regular season, lined him $20,000 and ordered him to get sensitivity training after the divisive comments appeared in December's Sports Illustrated. The lini\ was cut to $500. 
Shortly after arriving at the ballpark, Rocker addressed Manager Bobby Cox, the coach­ing staff and his teammates in a privale meeting. 
Women 
continued from page 24 
54 victory and then beat the Hurricanes in a rematch at the Joyce Center 83-68. 
Seton Hall also posed little threat to Notre Oamo earlv in the season, as the Irish handed the Pirates a 80-52 loss. 
But those games werp, played under different cir­cumstancrs wilh not as 
Alicia Hatay is nipping at Riley's heels, averaging almost 15 points an outing. Not only has Ratay's point production been key for the Irish, the timing of her shots has been the most effective part of her game. Hatay has pulled the Irish out of scrapes all season with her deadly thrcc-poin t shot. 
Irish head coach Muffet McGraw will also hr, looking for a strong outing by point guard Niele Ivey. The team's vocal leader on the court. 
Ivey plays 
a pivotal

much on the "The bench is going to be 
li,rn. With role in the
key. Every single player
the NCAA I r i s h tournament has to be focused and offense. The senior
just around prepared to find some 
the r,orner, leads the 
way to contribute."
mediocre Irish in Big East steals and assists.
tPams now Danielle Green have morr. Grren
Irish guard 
will also

incentive  to  
take  down  
the Irish  in  the  Big  East  
tournament to  ga.in  a  last­ 

minute rdge with thr NCAA tournament selection com­mittee. 
If the Irish make it past the first round, they will still face a challenge in probable opponent Rutgers -a tnam that gave them all they could handle in rrgular sea­son play. 
"It's hard preparing for the tournament bncause we won't know who we are going to face," Green said. "But we played Miami two times and won and beat Seton Hall early in the sea­son, so we are just going to stick to our game plan." 
That game plan consists of tight defense and balanced play under the basket and behind the arc. Entering into the tournament. junior cen­ter Ruth Riley -the go-to player for the Irish -is averaging just over 17 points in conference action. Hiley has struggled this sea­son with fouls -the All­American candidate will need to stay out of foul trou­ble for the Irish to make a serious run at the title. 
Freshman shooting guard 
play a major role in thH tourna­ment. Enjoying an outstand­ing second half of the sea­son. Green is the third-lead­ing scorer for the Irish and has proved to be a menace to opponents on the fast­break. 
But. with the possibility of three games in threr. days. the Irish will ,med morr. than stellar performances by their starters to earn thr, title. Notre Dame's bench will be a rrucial factor this week. 
"The bench is going to be key," said Green. "Every sin­gle player has to be focused and prepared to find some­way to contribute." 
After spending a record six weeks at the No. 5 spot in the AP and ESPN/USA Today polls, the Irish fell to sixth after their loss top Connecticut. The Irish are looking at the Big East Tournament as a way to gain some ground before the NCAA tournament and bol­ster their confidence before the big dance. The Irish know the Big East title is just within their reach and don't plan on leaving Connecticut ·empty-handed again this season. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. De.tdline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid Fri: 7:3Dam-7:00pm Sal: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Mid Free Pick-Up & Delivery' Call 631-COPY We're open late so your orcler will be done on time! 
GRADUATION ROOMS AVAIL­ABLE! Need hotel roon'S tor gradL1ation weekend? There are still rooms available in the Michiana area for graduation 2000. For more information. please con­tact Anthony Travel at 1x7080 or in the LaFortune basement. 

WANTED 
ASPIRING WRITERS! www.maincampus.com seeks students for stories ranging from Politics /Se'1./ Culture/ Opinions $25 per story! Email usat earn@maincampus.com 
FLOOR HOCKEY OFFICIALS Officials needed for Campus 
Floor Hockey. It's good money and good times! 
Experience helpful, but we do train everybody. Attend the mandatory officials meeting on Wed. 3/8 @ 7pm in Rolf's Sports Rec. Center or contact Brandon Leimbach @ 631-3536 
WEB DESIGNER NEEDED National Publication has opening for designer to help improve and maintain existing sites. 277-0033 www.nkn.com 
A.TTENTION SOUNO ENGINEERS Local Sound Company has open­ings for experienced FOH engi­neers and stage hands. Call 277­0032 www.thesoundcompany.com 
GRAPHIC LAYOUT International racing publication has opening for computer graphics lay­out person. Looking for fresh excit· ing designs to improve established magazine. Flexible hours. 277-0033 
Editor/proof reader needed to work with writers for national publication. 
Flexible hours. Call 277-0033 
Job opportunity for reliable, self­motivated student to work !or ortho­dontist. Run errands, make deliver­ies. and light maintenance. Hours flexible. Call Mary, Shawn. or Stacey at 234-2143 between 8-4. 

FOR RENT 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com 232-2595 
Available '00-01. 4·6 Student Rental House. 2 1/2 baths: lots of spai;e: Parking Lot and Laundry Dave 291-2209 
B'NB REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097 
NEW 4-BDRM. HOUSE NORTH 
OF CAMPUS $350/PERSON. MIN. 3 PEOPLE. CALL JOHN 273-3828. 
B&B for ND grad & Football 3 miles. 4 rooms. 287-4545 
HOUSEMATE WANTED. Close to ND. Owner has pets. Kitchen privileges. large room and lull basement. 
$300/mo. incl. all utilities. Call Mary at 287-1857. 

HOUSES FOR RENT 1) 5-bed­room. $1000/month. 2) 4-bedroom. $900/month. 3) 3-bedroom, $700. Call Bill at 675-0776. We'll make almost any changes to the houses. 

FOR.SALE 

New Phone Card 886 mins. $20 258-4805 or 243-9361 
Quality ranch, 
2107 Rockne Dr., 

1639 sq. ft., 3 bdrm, basement, loads of storage. 
2-car garage. $.113k. 288-8854. 
MiniDisc Player. New. Low price. Playstation 2 on March 4. Call4­1805 

PERSONAL 
www.thecommentator.com 
Fax it fast! Fax it fasti Fax it fast! 
Sending & Receiving 
THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center 
Our Fax# (219) 631-3291 
Krupa, You will always be the boss. Connolly 
Chuk, I will spend more time with you now. I promise. We are still on for King6s Buffet today, right? 
One more week until spring break ... 
Two more weeks until NCAA tour­nament 
I love the third Thursday m march. It is by far the best Thursday of the year. 
90210 is back again ... party in the house so lets begin. 
My main boy Dylan, we'll just call him D. the most complex Beverly boy you'll ever see... 
Sittin in the hotel watchln TV, look who pops up on the little screen .. 
Daddy McKay, alive in the flesh, last home boy any of the others would guess. 
They thought he blew up. that his car when WHAM BAM ... but nobOdy ever saw how body go slam. 
So now in the airport, seven years later, they find that old fake. hidin' like an alligator. 
Dylan says WHOA, I thought he was dead, boy oh boy was I misled. I saw the car blow .... but no more. 
Goes to the FBI, agent Christine Petit. she says daddy's dead, seven years ago, buried in lead. 
Then little miss Kelly, still blonde and a babe, shows up at Dylan's with a list on a page. 
People on the plane. from first class to coach, no Jack McKay. but still no lost hope. 
Eddie Waitkus, an old baseball player. better known as Roy Hobbs in movie nature. 
Good 'ol Jack used to read that to 
Dylan. before the little boy once snorted heroin. 
Next week, Dylan'it daddy returns. proving that that the afterlife is alive in well, especially on that show thats oh so swell. 
"Ed elli avea del cul fatto trombet­ta... " ... and they said Dante didn't have a sense of humor• -the SinNott 
Lauren-baby, everything's gonna be ok... no more sicky... promise .. Noah (scribble, scribble, scribble ... ) 
Katie, thanks for cheering me up, its always nice to talk to somebody. 

Friday, March 3, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

une 

ours 
ave een 



LaFortune Student Center Hours Will Be Extended Until 4am From Monday, March 6th Through Thursday, March 9th For Midterms Week. 

All TogethtT 

*Brought To You By the Office of the President. Bringing it All Together! 

"Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished." 
page 16 Friday, March 3, 2000 






Senior captain Mellin completes stellar career 
anything about boxing."
By TIM CASEY 
Now, Mellin was thrust into Spores Wrirer 
two-to three-hour workouts, six 
days a week. consisting of 500 
He's sitting in Section 107, row sit-ups, 250 pushups, 300 jump­five of a nearly empty Joyce ing jacks -not to mention spar­Centn on Wednesdav afternoon. ring and hitting the heavy bag. talking about his" upcoming And arm circles. Bengal Bouts fight, the last of "They just grind you because senior captain J.R. MPllin's thPy want to reduce the num­career. bers," Mellin recalled of his first 
Down below on the court sev­practice. "They had us doing eral members of the women's arm circles with our arms out to baskPtball team are running the side until I couldn't lifl my windsprints. preparing for this arms anvmorn." weekend's Big East tournament. Fortm1ately for Mellin the pain 
The conversation shifts to his only lasted a few days. !le quick­freshman year. when he fought ly made a name for himself in then-senior captain Doug Polina the ring, impressing the upper­in Mellin's first Bengal Bouts dassm,m. One pP-rson Mellin met final. his freshman VAar was senior 
When asked about that fight. captain John Christoforntti. Mellin ·s eyes briellv look away Christoforetti, a three-time and stare clown at the court. the champion and holdN of four same place where he fought black belts in karate, 1,vas an idol Polina threp, years ago. for tho young Mellin and remains Seemingly ignoring the women's a close friend. practice, an image suddenly As is the tradition at the appears in his mind. Bengal Bouts, Mellin needed to 
"l remember sitting in the ring come up with a catchy nick­in between the second and third name, or moniker, to use while round [of that fight]," Mellin said competing. about his loss to Polina. "I think He got input from my nose was broke at that point Christoforetti and other boxers -it was bleeding but wasn't too and thought of names himself. bad. I remember looking up at But it was ja woman who helped those lights above the ring. I was out with the administrative side having the time of my life." of the Bengal Bouts that encour­
"I was watching the tape of the aged Mellin to pick a particular fight afterwards and ifs hilari­name. ous," Mellin added. "You see me Her choice was "Maddog", her swinging around in the third father's flight name in the Air Mellin started aggressively, Abdelnour, who's already said his name was J.R., his ini­round and you can see I have Force. The woman's father hap­almost knocking Hernandez knocked out his two opponents. tials. Little did he know at thethis huge grin on my face. I have pened to be an ex-Bengal Bouts down in the first round. "He was training in London time, but four years later thatmy mouthpiece in but there's champion as well as an aviator. 
Come the second round, [where he went to school) all last name has stuck.
this big grin. I think I took a shot Thus began the career of the 
though, Hernandez had a sur­semester," Mellin said of "I thought it would be funny
right after that. I was a fresh­"Maddog." 
prise for his opponent. Abdelnour. "He's so vastly because those were my initials,"
man and didn't know what was ''I'm not the big Maddog," 
"He came out in the second improved and he's another left. Mellin said. "About a day later !
going on. But just to be a part of Mellin said. 'Tm more of a qui­round left-handed," Mellin said. hander. Left-handers should be realized that I wasn't going back that with all those guys that I eter guy most of the time. But "Midway through the round I banned from boxing. You can tell from this. Forty people thought Ireally looked up to was pretty I've got to give them [the oppo­was thinking, 'what the hell is the effort he's put in has paid off. was J.R. now."
neat." nents] that whole psychological going on here'. lie sparred me He's going to give me a run for Tonight, Mellin will head to theOne thing in the past three thing, where they're thinking I'm both times as a right-hander and it." ring for the last time. His parentsyears that hasn't changed with the Maddog. That's the thought, he fought the first round as a Win or lose, Mellin has cher­[who still refer to him as JefnMellin is that grin. Mention any­at least." 
right-hander. But he's ambidex­ished this year the most, mainly will be in town from California,thing to do with boxing and As a freshman, the "Maddog" trous. Finally, I'm like, 'he's left­because as a captain he's able to his sister is flying in fromyou're sure to see the whites of advanced all the way to the handed. He wasn't left-handed give back to the program and try Philadelphia. Even Subbiah, hishis teeth. finals of the 15O-pound division before.'" to instill in the underclassmen mentor, and still one of his bestWhether it be reflecting on a before facing Polina. 
"The thing about Edward is the same pride he feels for the friends will be coming back toprevious fight, on the charitable "He was a machine. He could that he makes you fight that Bengal Bouts. see Mellin's final fight. 
aspect of the boxing program, on throw and he was in great condi­much better of a fight because "It's a blast coming in and In Mellin's corner will be his
his growth as a person in his tion," Mellin recalled about 
he's so well protected," Mellin helping those guys [the under­old friend Christoforetti andfour years here or talking about Polina. "He had broken my nose said. "Where other fights would classmen] out," Mellin said. "For Mike Maguire. his roommate and
the friendships he's made three weeks earlier. When we 
get sloppy, we threw. threw and me. l always like to say put your fellow boxing captain, known tothrough the sport, Mellin is a met in the finals, he did me the threw but none of it was sloppy. pride in the process and not in Mellin as "the team motivator."
total advocate for the program. pleasure of re-breaking it for It was probably the best fight the product. That's what I tell a Immediately prior to his bout"In my four years here, it [box­me." 
I've had." lot of the freshman. If you do with Abdelnour, Mellin plans oning] has been my defining expe­Mellin came back his sopho­The two fighters were looking that, 130 guys walk away with a following the same routine he'srience," Mellin said. more year a few pounds lighter, forward to a rematch tonight. great experience, win or lose. been using for the past threeThe experience began at the competing in th(~ 145-pound divi­But the plans were scratched Even if you're the worst boxer in years. J!e'll put on his bluebeginning of his second semester sion. This time. he advanced to before the bouts even began the world, you know you're part trunks, listen to Pearl Jam'sfreshman year. His assistant rec­the finals again, where he beat when Hernandez was declared ol' something bigger. l think a lot "Alive", then walk down thetor at Keenan Hall, Jeevan Dave Murphy, capturing his first ineligible to fight because of his of guys really feel like they left aisle, his final march into theSubbiah. a law student involved Bengal Bouts title. 
experience. The powers-to-be with something special." ring.
with the boxing program. sug­Last year, Me!!in moved back likened him to a professional From a naive freshman to a There will be mixed chants ofgested that \ilellin try it out. up to the 150-pound division. As fighting, against novicos, so they senior captain, Mellin has expe­"Maddog!". "Go Jeff' and "GoBefore leaving for winter break, the tup seed, Mellin ru!led 
decided to prevent him from rienced it all here at Notre J.R." echoing through the JoyceSubbiah gave Mellin a fpw train­through to the finals, defeating competing. Dame. Ifo's a four-time finalist. Center.
ing tips. Babu Kazu and Matt Lynn before The decision was nol met with He's been an integral part of a The final chapter of a storied"fie said to do a lot of pushups facing his toughest challenge to approval by the majority of the program that raised over champion.
and sit-ups," Mellin said. "I went date. In the championship boxing program. Two separate $51,000 last year for tlrn Holy His careCTr may be ov(~rhome and was doing sets of 100. round, Mellin squared ofT against letters hy fellow boxers pub­Cross Missions in Bangladesh. tonight. But his memories will
I didn't know what we did. freshman Edward flernandcz, 
lished in the Feb. 24 edition of He's been a champion and linger on forever.
Thank God we didn't do sets of the most experienced boxer he'd The Observer challenged the been on the losing side. 'Tm going Lo miss this a lot. I100, though it's not too far off." ever faced. 
removal of Hernandez. i\nd he's even changed his really will, more than probably
The naive freshman quickly The anticipation of Mellin­
Though he said he would have name. Sort of. anything else here," Mellin said
learm:d about boxing when he Hernandez began several 
liked to get a second chance at i\11 throughout his childhood of his final fight. 'Tm going to trycame back to school in Januarv, months before the actual light. 
Hernandez, Mellin would not and continuing through high to suck it all in.
1997. Growing up in San "Everyone was whispering 
elaborate on his views of the school, Mellin was referred to as "Notre Dame has been awe­Francisco. Mellin ran track and about him IHernandez] earlv in dedsion. JefT, his real first name. But on some and we'll move on to otlwrcross-rountry in high school, but the season," Mellin said. "By· the NevPrtheless, MPllin has lived his first weekend here at Notre things and it'll be great," Mflllinboxing never played a role in his time our match came around I up to his top ranking this year, Dame, during Frnshman said. "But this'll be one thinglife prior to enrolling at Notre had sparred him twicA so I knew recording consecutive unani­Orientation, Mellin reinvfrnted that'll be hard to replace. You'llDame. how good he was." 
mous decision victories over himsnlf. always have friends wherever
"I hadn't even see 'Rockv' The bout lived up to its hype, Brock Heckmann and Tom In one of the dorm activities you go and there'll be a lot ofwhen I was a freshman," MPllin as Mellin and HNnandf'Z tradf~d Owens cn route to tonight's title that wer,kfmd, all the frnshman neat things going on but this issaid. "I didn't know what to blows for thren rounds before bout. lle'll be facing junior in Keenan were asked to tell sort of irrnplaceable. I'm goingexpect. Coming in I didn't know Hernandez won by derision. 
Dennis "The Natural Disaster" their names. As a jokCT, Mellin to miss it a lot." 


Friday, March 3, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 

Jackson's Lakers prove defense makes difference 
HOCKEYCCHA TOU/lNAMENT-March 10., 11:, 12 
First Hound {March 10, 11, 12} Tickets are on sale now!! Play..Jn Game {March 14} Tickets also available!! $11 Adult~ $6 Students li Youth 
Student Ticket Pick-Up March 7th -{First 150 are free.} Gate 3 Ticket Windows $6 after the 150 free tickets 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

While they're not yet into Eastern mysticism. the Los Angelr~s Lakcrs are beginning to look like Phil Jackson's team. 
Kobe Hryant. a natural on offense. is playing tenaf:ious defense. Shaquille O'Neal. who in the past tried to do most 



Experi ng wi aker? 
If you are a Freshman, Sophomore or Junior with Mac skills and want to work for a few hours a week call Brett Huelat at 246-1488 or stop by The Observer office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. You will not find a better job on campus! Great Pay!! Very Flexible!!! 
everything himself. is kicking the ball back out to lhe open man. All the role players. inducting the reserves, are fit­ting seamlessly into the flow of games. 
In their first season under Jackson. tho Lakers are playing with a sort of confidfmt harmo­ny, something their coach -a bit of a guru -can apprnr.iate. 
"We've reallv taken on this personality of ·composure and calm and being poised regard­less of the situation," guard Derek Fisher said. 
The Lakers also happen to be playing the best basketball in the NBA with a record of 47 -11 and are on a 13-game winning streak after an earlier run of 16 in a row. 


motio resume 
$$$$$ 



Work for The Observer Ad Design Department 
Bryant believes the team is beginning to reflect Jackson's personality, "as far as being real cerebral and being very mindful of the game." 
~That's the type of personality that Phil has brought to the team and we kind of bought into it. We have belief in the sys­tem," Bryant said. 
Said Jackson; "They arc rAally growing and lAarning." 
The Lakers' most significant progress this season is on defense, where they rank fourth in the league, holding oppo­nents to 90.6 points a game. Last season, they ranked 25th. allowing 96 points a game. 
"I think a lot of our improve­ment is just getting a bettAr understanding that it takes defense to win, and not just our skills." Fisher said. "I think some of it is the respect that we all have for Phil, coming in here and taking this job. At the same time. it's growth and maturity by us." 
The Lakers also are playing better offense than they were in the early days of Jackson's tri­angle offense. 
()'Neal. averaging 27.7 points and 14.2 rebounds, and Bryant. averaging 22.3 points and six rebounds, are still the go-to guys. But both have averaged about six assists each during the current winning streak, and their unselfishness seems to be rubbing off on their teammates. In a recent 109-96 win over Boston, the Lakers had 41 bas­kets -and 35 assists, topped by Ron Ilarper with seven. 
While the Lakers have the league's best record, they believe they still have a way to go. 
"Back then. we felt confident we were going to win every night and that was how it was," Green recalled, talking of his with championship Lakers teams in the '80s. "Hopefully this team will get to that point; it's what we're trying to do." 
Jackson feels that, rather than taking on his personality, the Lakers are developing their own. 
"A team has to have their own heads, so to speak, in many ways," he said. "A coach needs to monitor until they find their own way together as a unit. Until they do, they're not going to be that championship-caliber team they want to be." 
Los Angeles, which had its 16­game win streak end in a 111­102 loss at Indiana. tries to extend its current string to 14 against the Pacers on Friday night at Staples Center. 
"I look forward to Indiana: they're a very deep team." Jackson said. "We're going to need our bench." 
Los Angeles faces another good team after the Pacers, meeting the Miami Heat on Sunday at home. 
If the Lakers win those two. they'll try to equal their 16­game streak, the league's longest this year and second­longest in team history, against the lowly Clippers on Tuesday night. After the Clippers, the Lakers have a run of five games in which they also will be heavi­ly favored. 





page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 3, 2000 
WOMEN 's LACROSSE NBA 
Coyne raises 






standards in 2000 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sports Editor 
After three winning seasons in three years of existence. one might believe women's larrnssn head coach Tracey Coyne would be saUsfie<l with the progress her team has made. 
She's not. 

Following a 9-6 '99 cam­paign, Coyne is ready for the Irish to transform themselves from a solid Midwf'st lacrosse program inlo a competitive national program. 
"We want to peak this year." she said. "We are not waiting around. Last vear we talked about things ·we wanted to aci;omplisb and they didn't happen Not to take anything away from the 9-6 season but we have higher expedations this war." 
The Irish get their first chance to live up tu those expectations Sunday when they travel to Colorado to take on the University of Denver Pioneers. 
The Irish showed that this might be the year that they live up to Coyne·s expectations last weekend when they trav­eled to Loyola {Md.) and defeated No. 3 Virginia in an exhibition game. 
The 2000 Irish squad is the most experienced and talented team that Coyne has ever had. Led bv 50-goal scorer Lael O'Sha.ughnessy, the young Irish team teams returns nine starters -none of which are seniors. 
"We are another year older," Coyne said. "We just have so manv more people with exper(ence in big games." 
Winning the big games is the primary goal of this year's team, according to Coyne. Last vear's team picked up nine wins, but never upset a top team. With a tough schedule this year. Coyne expects the Irish to surprise some of the top teams in the country. 
"We have a much more com­petitive schedule but I think 
IE.IE ill) ffilfOOIE 

we am more prepared," Coyne said. "Last year was kind of disappointing because we only beat the teams that we should beat. We had some big wins 
but  we  really didn't knock  
anvone  off.  I think  we  have  
lea.rned  a  lot about. ourselves  

as a team." 
The Irish face stiff tests from nation powers Duke, ranked second in the Intercollegiate Women's Lacrosse Coaches Association prescason poll and Georgetown, ranked sixth in the JWLCA prpsi:111son poll. In addition the Irisb face four other prcseason top 25 teams in Vanderbilt, Rutgers, Syracuse and Hutgers. 
·Last season. the Irish goal­tending concerned Coyne. To strengthen her team between the pipes, Coy1rn rer.ruited freshman Jen Whit!l and accepted transfor Tara Durkin from the University of Massachusetts. 
Durkin impressed Coyne in the win ovor Virginia and earned the starting nod against Denver. The competi­tion for the starting goal­tender is far from over, ·how­ever. 
"Obviously strength in the goal is a key component to winning," Coyne said. "There is a lot of competition at that position. But we are expecting C.arrie Marshal and Jen White to push her in practice and play a ~:ole in the rest of the season. 
Coyne believes that with Durkin in net. the Irish can compete with any program. 
Without any senior starters, the Irish will rely on a core of juniors for leadership. -~he juniors, who were the first class recruited by Coyne, hawi always been leaders. 
"I think the juniors have done a great job," Coyne said. "Last year, when they were sophomores. they had to step up. So they've always had to step up. They are a deter­mined group and they under­stand what the goals of the program are." 
Those goals are just a little bit higher this year. 


Starks looks for a release 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
John Starks to the Knicks? .John Starks to tho Heat? Either could happen by the ond of the weekend. 
An arbitrator will hear arguments Friday on whether Starks can forfeit tho remainder of his salary and be released by the Chir.ago Bulls so he can become a free agent and join a playoff contender for the rest of the season. 
"If this team was in the playoff race, I'd love to be Imm. No question," Starks said. "Rut. that's not the case .... Every player that plays the game wants to win a championship. I'm no dif­ferent." 
Starks, who was traded from Golden State lo 
C:hir.c1go last month. has offered to give up the remainder of his $4 million salary f'or this season if the Bulb agree to release him. lie then would bo free to sign with any team. 
"I'm taking a big chance," Starks said. 'Tm not sure ii' anoth­er team is going tu want to pick me up." 
Players released aftnr 11:59 p.m. on March 1 who then sign with another team arc not eligible to compete in the playoffs, but Starks is seeking to have his release made retroactive to Wednesday night so he can compot11 in the postseason. 
Arbitrator Kenneth Dam will hear the case hy conference call Friday afternoon. A decision is expected no later than Saturday. 


If Starks wins, both the New York Knicks and Miami H1iat would he interestt~d in adding him. several league sources said. 
"It would be interesting to see which one he'd pick," said Allan Houston of' the Knir.ks, who remains frinnds with Starks. "He'd have to choose which one he thought had a better chance of win­ning a championship. I-le wants a ring." 
Starks spent eight seasons with the Knicks until !ming traded to the Warriors before last season as part of the Latrcll Sprewell deal. 
Starks also remains l'ond of Miami coach Pat Riley, who coached him in N11w York from 1991-95. 
The players' union will argue on Starks' behalf that. if he is willing to forfeit roughly $1 million in salary, no one should sland in the way of him joining another team with a shot at winning a championship. 
Th11 leagtrn will argue that because Starks was not released prior to Jan. 10, his salary is fully guaranter,d for the entire season. And since them is no provision in the collective bargaining agree­ment that allows for this kind of move -even when a play­er and a team have agrerd to amend a contract -it should not be allowed. 
"I have to be optimistic. You never know what hap­pens in this leagur," Starks said. "None of you guys ever thought I'd be a Bull." 


Friday, March 3, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
FENCING 
Seniors prepare for final career home meet 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Assnciare Spom Editor 
Senior foil caplain Jim Harris rnn vi\'idly rPcall his first fonc­ing match at Notre Dame. 
t\s a freshman walk-on with just two prior years of training, Harris rarely got a chance to l'rncr during th11 competitions. lh1l for the last bout of thn match against Cleveland State, llarris finally got to take the strip for tlrn Irish. 
With r.v!'ry other foncer fin­
ishml for the day. Harris' bout 
The Notre Dan1e French Club is proud to present the fourth movie ofthe French Film Festival 2000: 
The Dream.life of Angels 
(La vie revee des anges) 
• 1999 Film of the Year at the Cesar A wards. • 
Sunday, March 5, 2000 
2:00pID 
Snite Movie Theatre 
(rescheduled from 1/30/00 due to technical difficulties) 

ADMISSION IS FREE! 
Sponsored by: Le Cercle Frarn;ais, Student Government, SUB, the Department ofRomance Languages, and The Nanovic Institute 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Force ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 
Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of qualities that count for leadership. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to make your decision, now. 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
became the center of attention. the home strips for the last With veteran Irish fencers time at the Midwest champi­
likn  Stephane  Auriol  and  onships.  
Jeremy Siek  While  this  
cheering him on, Harris picked up his  "J felt a little bit like Rudy with everybody  weekend will be emotional for the seniors, Harris  
first  win  as  cheering.··  said the Irish are  
an  Irish  focusing more on  
fenrer. "I felt a lit­tle bit like  Jim Harris senior foil captain  winning the championship and not on the  

Hudy with everybody cheering," Harris said about his first meet. 
This weekend. Harris. along with tlm Irish seniors will take 
close of their home careers. "IL is going to be very difficult 
Sundav when the individual tournament comes to a close because I know I won't be 
moving on to the qualifier [for the NCAA tournament]," Jlarris said. "But I am look­ing forward to it. I think it is going to be a lot of fun and I think I will worry about it when it is all over." 
When the tournament is all over, the Irish hope to walk away with Midwest rhampi­onships for both the men and women overall and in all three vveapons. The men should have an easy road to the title as they are ranked first and cruisf'd to easy wins against conference oppo­nents in the regular season. 
Despite not fencing in a competition for two weeks, the Irish said that they will not be rusty this weekend. 
"I think we will be ready," senior epeeist Dominic Guarnaschelli. "We always gear back up at the end of the season so we will be ready to charge on in there." 
The women, hovvever, face a stiff test from Northwestern, who beat the Irish during the regular sea­son. Because of that loss, the Irish are seeded an unfamil­iar second behind the Wildcats. 
"For the first time all the girls are seeded second as opposed to first but that is because of our loss to Northwestern," epee captain Kirn DeMaio said. "But I think we are ready for the challenge. We are not concerned with that happening again." 
If the Irish upset the Wildcats and win the Midwest Championship, Del\1aio will play a key role. With No. 3 epee-starter Kiersten Ferguson out with an injury, DeMaio moves into a starting role. 
Northwestern should be the only test for the women as a team, although there are sever­al individuals who can chal­lenge the Irish. 
"There are a couple of schools with one really good fencer," DeMaio said. "Timre will 
"The best part has been
be some tough but his 
competitors in the the team bonding that classmate individuals but it Forest
has gone on. " 
is good to fence Walton tough competition could chal­
Dominic Guarnaschelli
before the· qualifi­lenge him er. There are a senior epeeist for the title. 
couple of stands outs but no one that is unbeatable." 
The Irish women should be favored to win individual titles in every weapon. 
At epee, freshmen Anna Carnick and Meagan Call should challenge for the indi­vidual title. Carnick led the Irish with 41 wins while Call was not far behind with 39 wins. 
At foil, senior captain Magda Krol made a successful transi­tion from epee to foil and won 33 bouts for the Irish. Freshman Liza Boutsikaris, however, led the Irish in foil victories with 36. It is possible that Boutsikaris and Krol will be seeded 1-2 in the individual tournament, setting up an all­Irish final. 
At women's sabre, freshman Natalia Mazur has been practi­cally flawless en route to a 49­4 regular season record. Not 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music Guest Artist Series presents the 




Boston Brass 
Saturday, March 4, 2000 8:oo pm, Washington Hall 
" Tickets: $3 Students; $6 Seniors; $8 ND/SMC; $10 GA Tickets are available at the Lafortune Box Office, 

even the strong Northwestern sabrewomen should be able to stop Mazur from winning the title. 
On the men's side, the biggest questions won't he if a Notre Dame fencer wins an individual title, but which Irish fencer will take home the title. 
At sabre, four different Irish fencers could take first. While sophomore Gabor Szelle is the favorite, sophomore Andre Crompton, junior Andrezj 13ednarksi and freshman Matt Fabricant will all give the 1999 champion a tough bout. An all­Irish semifinal would not bo a surprise. 
At foil, a pair of Irish fresh­rn en are the class of the Midwest. Ozren Oebic has not lost since the first weekend en 
route to a 

..
42-3 record 
At epee, 

1 9 9 9 Midwest Champion James Gaither faces a strong chal­lenge from his teammates ­sophomore All-American Brian Casas and freshman Jan Viviani. Casas and Viviani had better regular seasons than Gaither but the senior captain always seems to fence at the top of his game in pressure sit­uations. 
At the end of the weekend, the seniors hope that they will walk away with their fourth Midwest overall title. But more importantly, they will walk away with friendships that will last a lifetime. 
"The best part has been the team bonding that has gone on," Guarnaschelli said. "Whether we have been travel­ing or at home, everyone comes together. You can espe­cially see it at the end of the year." 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 3, 2000 
HOCKEY 



Michigan State series to decide home ice for Irish 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sports Writer 
Thf' Irish head into lhe final weekPnd of the rPgufar season looking to secure the fifth and final home playoff spot. 
''It's esspn­
The second nrneting between tial for us to the Irish and Spartans comes get four at a crucial point in the Notre points this Dame schedule. 'vtichigan weekend." State leads the overall series senior 44-28-5. and has gone 17-2-3 defcnseman against Notre Dame since the Tyson fraser Irish rejoined the CCHA in said. "We 1992. w a n t Carlson momentum heading into the playoffs and playing at home eliminates the need for travel." 
The home and awav sf'lrfos against Michigan State could determine whether or not the Irish (11-9-6 in the CCHA) maintain their two-po.int lead over Ferris State for the fifth spot. No matter the outcome. the Irish can finish no lower than sixth placP overall in the standings. 
''Home ice is so important and we want to play as many more games in the JACC as we can," said defenseman Sean Molina. "It is just a matter of going out and getting on a roll. 
The Observer needs copy editors. Call Kerry 1-4543. 

Killer App helped me find mv 





moio 
student programmers and sonware devetopers...oo vou have what hlales 10 develop lbe KILLER APP? 
Develop agame or utllltY and submit it ro 
Aureale Media bJ Aprll 1, 2000. If It s die best reu COUid Win $2000. If not, JOI COUid Sdll mate a lot of 11011ey. A11v questions? E-mail: 1r111erapp@aureate.co1n. 
t,IOP!!RCHASEN'E'CESSA~"r'. 1'obcd>g,bkyoun-.u!bcaU.S.eit>na lfl~oroldQ-. FqJfo~•dd1"-ctonof,!,~le ~... r..<,~D4-•ffil•Jt--~tH.a"4lklf1........i.lllefilfrulieo«~<>fdlc-~oofd•.-•el.1;p­bk.. T.i Clll.«, ~ & ""j'<illk JOflwm: Pf01,12ffi. a!Ollj \iollh yoor ll&l!k:. ~IIC. pboM ll1olf!lbCf &lid c-lflffladcJJ.ca w: A~ M~a (~ir&, ~\ffltos; ~~tODCoftld' .t.dmiDldl'WOI", i9!68f)ld Midrt~flt,111 W.y. Mom',wn 'i'I~, CAUINJ. Elller•ll'.IUl)'dl:""lflepmg,unuyatlilat,hlleD.,.ry1DUst~N:111;Np,1ftlldy. F.-.,.."""'bef!N.41Wedby IL~.59p.m. E.T,...-.,011, lOOO. ~(!) Jt&ad ll{lZC ofll,000 'Wlil bl: awaidocl. N.:i.111btutuuoa uflht (11-'00 pd1t willtlO &!½~. WmE!ft", andolhfl en111t1: ~forllld~oii U11~Aum1t" newod, will~ &lmn1n~ 111 tu~1'1sm:lwll ofTht Judfett>.-''f'l>qdlrihrllil,-......,,.,.i,i,wuubiJ,1x,,..~v.n>'-""'"'MM11.1,,-1.11r,fW..,;,. w-...;11>,c.,,111-,:1 
by l'l'lll<I or r-~11. w,..,,,,, LOod Olllcf ~alrnaoto:111$1~ f(I{ i11C:!ia11.111 m 1ft<r Aurate ll-ct\O'<:lrk. will 1_>1= •11aou"'-..ed by M1y L 20(,0, O!kl:i r,f" wi11111~ will W'Y Yritll pruripw,... Tu"" -ttli! !-0.lr resp,:1111itoii11y oftile wtnn~r. The MMI!!', •11111~ own.er, f'.lf O!llb'l~ ..l.t«I fa 10,::tllllAI • llit AWPI• ndw,:,rk, ""II bi, ~uud 1D e:mcula lhofoUvw1111: Lur,bibl)· ud 5\ii,hclly Itc,I-, 
Aff.vil of £11pt,il11y anod Softv..... i.)evdopcr k~tHlrUIO<I ~Ill. CooLHI conducle;J by AurMte M.,.j,-C"'f'<>.-.l1e,11, 1916801d Middlefield W1.y, Mwaw, Viliw, CA 9't04J. Fl'.lf& ~1e1. o(Offl~iill IUlkl or1lilli olilic lriDMfll!d 1boK l!Qlel seled:ai fot I~1ft the At11Nl& lld:Wllrk, pl-tend I idf.~ 1t11np:d ien~i. to A111Ue Medti C,...-p;;>n.UO<>, c/oXillerApplk..tto,, CC1<1la! Adrraai.it111•><. Aura.1,,Medi. ~iia.,..,,_ norir.,_.,ibilityr,,, lost, ml.Iii, !Med. lucorn:aalu~~q\rit:J,Gf !Ofu!'~Nf.~ .i.-t..el~11tH1!Cflk'I ara..~or ,;oftwo:1llllliaK­U-(l( faWft5. W:JlDWH£RE'.l>.ROHl&llf..D.. 
Wo need to establish ourselves as a team that no one wants t.o facP. Right now in college hockey if you get on a hot streak anything is possible. There are going to be a fot of upsets and we want to contin­ue to do well." 
The Irish offense has suf­fered against the Spartans scoring only six goals in thPir last six games. The home team. lrnwever. has not lost during this stretch, going 5-0­
l. Home ice advantage will come into play. as Pach tf'am will have a home game this weekend. 
In thf' fi.rst mef'ting betwePn the two teams the Irish pre· vailcd with a 1-0 victory. Junior Ryan Dolder put bark a rebound to beat the MSU goal­tcndP.r for the game-winner 
AU Show..., 8cfi..1re 6 PM $,(00 
$-t.lX) StudcnL.Childrcn/Scnit,rs 
$1\.50 Aduh Stereo Surmuncl Suum! in all Tot~<J1rc-s. 

American Beauty  R  
1:30 4:15 7:10 9:50  
Boil-er Room  R  
9:30  
Drowning Mona  PG13  Ne-w  
t2:45 3:00 5:15 7:35 10·05  
Hanging Up  PG13  
1 ·00 3:10 5:20 7:40 10:00  
My Dog Skip  PG  New  
1 :05 3:20 5:35 7:45 9:55  
Pitch Black  R  
2.05 4:30 7:05 9:50  
Reindeer Games  R  SS  
12:50 3:15 5:35 8:00 10:25  
Se ream 3  R  
7:50 10:25  
Snow Day  PG  
1:10 3:25 5:40 7:55 10:10  
The Beach  R  
2:00 4:40  
The Next Besl Thing  PG13  S5-New  
1 :20 4:10 7:00 9:35  
The Tigger Movie  G  
12:55 2:50 4:45 7,20  
The Whole Ntna Yards  R  SS  
12:45 3:05 5:30 7:55 10:20  
TtiNe Strikes  R  New  
1:05 3:20 5:25 7:30 9:40  
What Planet Are You From  R  SS-New  
1:55 4;35 7:25 10:15  
Wondef Soy-s  A  SS  
1 :25 4:00 7:15 9:55  

rows mm cm1 ~,., 011 11W1N,! new ,ms 
M.W~Ki-t ;.c:u,1au tao ~,1> . KC ,t,,a¼,u; 
with less than five minutes mononucleosis and might not remaining. be cleared before the end of 
Irish goaltendPr Tony the season. Inman is Notre Zasowski recorded 15 of his Dame's fifth leading scorer. 24 saves in the third period to with 15 goals and seven post Notre Dame's first assists in 32 ganrns this sea­shutout of the Spartans since son. 1978. a span of 41 games. Junior leflwing Chad 
In the serond game of the Chipchase will also miss the series the Irish were not as remainder of the season after fortunatP., undergoing dropping the "Home ice is so important rcconstructivc road game to knee surgery
and we want to play as
MSU 4-1. The in mid­
many more gmnes in the
Spartans February. lie 
scored in everv period and benefited from strong goal­tending by Joe Blackburn. 
J a Y 

Kopischke scored 
THE TASTY BACON 
CHEDDAR  WHOPPER:  
THINK  OF  IT  AS  A  WHO PP ER®  T H A T ' S  
DRESSED  UP  WITH  SOMEPLACE  TO  GO.  


THE WHOPPER• WITH A NEW TWIST FOR A LIMITED TIME. 
If you're already a fan of "America's Favorite Burger,"• why not try it a whole new way? With crispy bacon and melted cheddar cheese, it's sure to put a smile ort your face. So head to a BURGER KING" restaurant soon and make sure to bring your appetite . 
The Huddle • Lafortune Student Center 


JACC as we can. " is ex pee ted to make a full recovery for
Sean Molina 
his senior sea­Irish defenseman son. The key to the series for tho lone the Irish will be their offense. 
when holding a lead heading into the 2nd intermission. During this span, Notrf' Dame has posted a 33-0-6 record, including 10 wins and three ties this season. 
Top Irish scorer Dan Carlson has benefited tremendously from lhe powerplav. Nino of' his team leading 15 goals have come with the man advantage.llo has found the not five times in the last six games and eight times in the last l 0 games. 
The junior also leads the team in game-winning goals, shots on goal. and has either scored or assisted on five of' Notrf' Dame's game-winning goals this sAason. 
The Irish will host the first game of' the series tonight at 
7:05 p.m. in the .Joyce Center. Following the game thP. two teams will head to East Lansing where lhey will con­r.lude thf' irnries and season at Michigan State's Munn Ice Arena on Saturday. 

Irish goal. but it came after the Spartans had already built a 3-0 lead. 
The Irish are wracked with injuries going into the wt1ek­end. Sophomore David Inman will miss the entire series wilh Notre Dame holds a 12-8-4 record when scoring at least one powerplay goal, and a 8­1-1 record when scoring two or more powerplay goals. 

In addition, the Irish have not lost in their last 39 games 
Aureate Media 
www.aureate com 
LOOKING FDR AJOI?
.............,., !lrlllCt ¦ HIIIR. nt¦IIIH ....llfl, IIIIWIIINIINIR. 
~,



11r•-···­
Friday, March 3, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
BASEBALL 

Domers compete in Metrodome tournament 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports ~'riLer 
After winning two of three games in last weekend, the Irish baseball team heads into the Ilonnel foods Classic hun­gry for another opportunity to prove thems,:,lves as one uf the top teams in the country. 
The four-team tournament at the ~etrodome in Minneapolis, pits Notre Dame against three challenging ballclubs: host Minnesota, Wake I--orest and Georgia. 
Today, the Irish take on an 8­2 Wake Porest team that hasn't lost since its opening two games. Irish head coach Paul Mainieri looks forward to the challenge. 
"This game is a tremendous opportunity for our team," Mainieri said. "You look at all tho great schools in the ACC, and Wake forest is the two­time defending champions." 
Senior Scott Cavey gets the start for the Irish. Cavey is coming off a dominating perfor­mance against Air force that earned him co-Big East pitcher of the 
week honors. In that game Cavey allowed just one hit to go along with six strikeouts. 
"It was a very dominating performance, which was some­
. thing we needed in our first game," Mainieri said. "We wore a litlle uptight. He kept us in the game and let us improve on offense as the game went on." One of the surprise contribu­tors last weekend was fresh­man Brian Stavisky. In the tournament, the right fielder went three for 10 with a home run, a triple, a double and three runs scored. After start­ing lower in the lineup, Mainieri has moved Stavisky up to the cleanup spot. "My intention was not to put too much pressure on him," Mainieri said. "The last game ~e thought We'd juggle the lineup, and he played well." On Saturday, Notre Dame takes on 3-6 Minnesota. The two teams have not met since 1991. when the Irish won 9-5 at the Metrodome. Notre Dame has yet to decide on a pitcher for this game. On Sunday. preseason All­American pitcher Aaron Heilman goes for his first win of 
the season against Georgia. Heilman was a tough luck loser last Saturday when the Irish fell to the Ruckeyes of Ohio State, 5-4. 
Heilman allowed just two hits ovnr the first four innings, but committed a costly throwing error in the fifth that allowed Ohio State to tie the game at four. 
In the sixth, the Ruckeyes· Trent Mcilvain hit a game-win­ning blast over the fence to send Heilman and the Irish to the showers. 
Georgia, 8-0 this season, come off an exhibition game against the Atlanta Braves. The Bulldogs are annually one of the top teams in the South. 
Sophomore ,catcher Paul O'Toole also exceeded Irish expectations last weekend. 
O'Toole, who recently moved to the leadofT spot, went 5-11 in the series, driving in five while adding a triple. Shortstop Alec Porzel hit the game-winning homer against Memphis on Sunday. 
All games this weekend can be heard on WJVA 1580 AM as well as on the Internet at 
www.und.com. 

cinema@thesnite 
The Student Activities Office is looking for nominees for the 14th Annual Student Leadership Awards! 
Ifyou wish to nominate a student please submit the following information to the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune Student Center, by March 8, 2000: 
The name ofperson doing the nominating & their relationship to the nominee. 
The name and year in school ofthe nominee. 
All major activities, number ofyears involved, and leadership positions held while at Notre Dame, and the year ofparticipation. 
Expound on the leadership positions held and the student's quality ofinvolvement. Be explicit in explaining. 




II1-111W•t1IIII 
Fencing  Sal/Sun MillleslfenlilUCOit-ll:IJIJam  
Trat:k&RB/d  TllllaJ/Sal A1exW1so11  
lnlllalional !r.3IJ,-,/10am  
Women's Tennis  saura, vs.Iowa -.,,a  
--vs.#21KelllucQ 12:IJIJ,.,,9~  

NOTRE DAME HOCKEY 
¦ CIRCUITCITY 
Rock meRink! 1111 
Fans will have the chanc.e to shoot a puck to win a 21' TVor 3-CD stereo system courtesy ofGrout City! 

Friday, March 3, 2000 

page 22 The Obsaver . SPORTS 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Athletes prepare for NCAAs at Alex Wilson Invite 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assisrant Sports F.dimr 
Leading members of the Trish track and field squad look to the home crowd at this weekend's Alex Wilson Invitational to pro­
pel them in their efforts to qualify for the NCAA Indoors Champion­ships. 
lligh jumper J e n Engelhardt 

and long King jumpers 
Marshaun West and Tameisha King have put themselves into strong position to earn NCAA berths, but will need slight improvements to make it into the top echelon of the nation's ath­
letes, 
West. a senior All-American, has leapt 25-foot-4 this season, but likely needs a jump of at least 25-foot-6 to send him to nationals in Fayetteville, Ark., next week 
"I'm not going to try to barely sneak in," West said. "I want to jump over 26 feet this weekend. I've been working really hard in practice trying to make sure I have enough practice time because I've been hurt. I believe 
I'm back at 100 percent, and I'm ready to go full-spePd. » King is a freshman who has hit 
·marks of 20-foot-4 1/2 this sea­son. A three-inch improvement will probably be enough to sPcure her a spot at the NCAA Championships. 
"Considering that I'm No. 19 nationally and I'm trying to qual­ify for nationals, and they take the top 15, I have to improve my jump right now," King said. "My goal is 21 feet. I believe I was capable of it last week, but there were a couple of things I needed to correct technically." -
Engelhardt, also a senior All­American, finished second at the Big East Indoors Championships for the third straight season. Currently 22nd in the natimi, she needs about an inch-and-a-half improvPment to ensure her a qualifying spot. 
"We're kind of training through this meet in prrparation for the outdoors season," field events coach Scott Winsor said, "Except for those three who need to improve on their jumps to get to the NCAAs. They're at a very high caliber right now; it's just that you have to be in the top 15," 
Notre Dame's distance medley relay squad of Phil Mishka, Chris Cochran, Tim Kober and· Luke Watson is holding strong at sev­enth or eighth in the nation. Only 10 rt>lay squads make the cut for nationals, however, so the four are looking to shave a couple seconds off their time. 
"We're sitting at seventh or eighth in the country right now, and they're going to take 10 teams into nationals," Mishka said, who will 
race in the 5,000-meter run, as will senior Sean McManus and sophomore Marc StriowskL 
''I'd like to think so, but I have my doubts," Shay said on his chances of qualifying. "I .still haven't been training that much since corning off my injuries. It's going to take tolerating a lot of 
pain for me, 
run the lead­off 1200-metcr  "! just want to get out  because my body's just not  
leg, "We want  there and really enjoy  used to running  
to make sure that we're still in the top 10  myse(fand enjoy the last home meet."  that hard, We have a really good field coming  
after  this  in  for  the Alex  
weekend. If we all improved as much as  Allison Klemmer distance runner  Wilson, as far as the 5000 goes." In the women's  
we're capable  5,000-rneter run,  

of, we'd yrobably be leading the senior Alison Klemmer hopes to country. hold court. 
Following Mishka will be "I just want to get out there Cochran on the 400-rneter leg, and really enjoy myself and who won that event at the Big enjoy the last home meet," 
East Championships, Kober will run the 800-mcter leg, while Watson will close out the rnlay with a mile run, 
"Our primary goal is basically to get into nationals," Watson said. "To do that we'll need to win and we'll need to probably run a faster time than we've ever run before. That's not being too ambitious." 
Junior Ryan Shay will take his aim at a nationals berth with a 
The Observer -your source for Irish track and field news. 
Klcmmcr said. "I think that's going to lead to a really good 
race." 

In other distance events for the · Irish are Bridget O'Brien in the 3,000-meter run, Patty Rice, Jen Handley and Erin Olson in the mile; and Leanne Brady and Cara Motter in the 800-metN run. Antonio Arce will take the linfl for thA mfln in the mile. 
Sprints coach John Millar is focusing in on a few events with shots at NCAA berths -Cochran in the 200-meter run, junior Terry Wray, Liz Grow and Kymia Love in the 400-meter run. 
"We're trying to get her quali­fied for the NCAAs as well." Millar said of Grow. "She's met the standard, hut she needs to improve her time if she wants to get into the top 16." 
The mflet begins on the Loftus track and field this evening, and continues tomorrow. 





KARAQI(~ (QNTSST 
SA,t\lra~y, Marci+ 4t.b 
9-11 p.rr--. ~f'lrtU.NE: Billr~2rr-­f22a ~N~ priZE:S!! 
(2rr--E; 6E: ~ RQ(K 5TAR !! 




* 

5p2rJS2Yta 6y '\#ft S\U.*N\ ActiV~i~ QffiC'= 
Friday, March 3, 2000 The Observer . TODAY TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 
("EC.I<;. 'T~I':, OUT, JoRDII.N. 
OIi.SEO Of'J iOillJ.. C.OLLE:GE 
£J"'PEN~E<;, IT (OH<; ALMOST 51,r. D01.U.ii:.S. Fo~ E VER.'i HOUR WE !>PE.NO 
~E~E. 

Fox TROT 
N1coLE, I CAN'T SuT WE'RE &o 1liRoo6H Wfl'H ALMoST IN "THIS. I HA.VE To lliE CLEAR! 
f>uT THE CD TEN MoRE 
81\CI(. FEET.' 
ll' ' 
T~r.i MHI\J:. 

Fi>.l(Tul':, '{fA. T\1€ Si'ENT 
j Q 1997 em Amend/Dist. by Untv1nal PressSynd1<:11t 
g: No! IT'S WRoNG.1 i>-I CAN'T Do IT.' 
~ 
I 

t'\"1 "TE.E:Tf\ .. 
~ 100 S,I-IAV I WC:,. S:Ji;"O SLE.E.PIWG ,l..TE.R 1"~\£ SNOOZE. />.Ll\'R~ GoE,S OFF 
BILL AMEND 
THERE'S DEF•· I MEAN, I'I> N1lELY A. OoW!i· BE SORPIMEO SIDE To LIKING lflHIS ALBUM FLASH·IN·THE· WEl!EtH PASSE PAN GKc>UPS. BY NIGHTFALL. 
~-l ((() I 
page 23 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
I ~EALL'( 11-lll-l K WS SHoUL.P 00 p~VD OF OUR. 60'($. w'IN 1f\6 l?JoVT OP. NOT, ,He'('le­) Tfl.AIN~ I-IAltD, 
II.NP AU... -n11$ MONEY r,oe.s. TO nle e>et-lGA.ll Ml':>SIONSI N-~OST $"O. 000! .. 
beam. 1 @nd.edu 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Abbr. on a -
business sign 

1 Moseyed 30 Doctor's
7 Specious write-up
argument 34 It gets stuck in 
14 Let out, in a bars 
way 35 Tootsy-wootsies
15 Get totally involved with 36 Machine rotator 
16 Listen 39 Newscast part 
18 Thrill-seeker's 41 Give a black love eye 
19 Like a D. W. 43 Winston Griffith film Churchill, e.g. 
20·_ a chance" 44 Pop Art pioneer Lichtenstein
21 Like contracts 47 Fuselage
23 Mint 
fastener 24 Come together 
48 Professional 25 Be sore org. since 1847 
27 ''The X-Files" 49 Amateurish agent artist 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ARCH 0 W E S -:-A...-:-r:-U-:-r:TT:"\ 
S O L I TAXI W SE 


42 Pole carrier 49 Wrapped up 44 Small fry 50 Kind of game 45 Snake charmer, 51 Zebras 
in musician's 
slang 54 Bear necessity 46 Itch 55 Mere taste 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute}. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
52 Crown wearer 
53 Cut loose 
56 Put off 
57 Like some 
winds 58 Black-footed albatrosses 59 The Ponderosa, e.g. 
DOWN 1 Notify 2 Early beach 
arrivals? 3 Meat cut 4 Meat site 5 American_ 6 Jupiter, e.g. 7 Strength 8 Place for a timer 9 Pain in the neck 
10 Tear 11 Foolishly 12 Boardwalk diversion 13 In the main 15 Share 17 Ring ending 22 Draw off 24 Actress Ashley 26 Steps over the line 27 Handle 28 Foul-mouth 31 Dump 
Puzzle by John WolUng 
32 Drop 33 Tiny amount 34 Open boat 35 Friend of 
Hamlet 36 Hors d'oeuvres bit: Var. 37 Statute of 
Liberty's home 38 Like some mail 39 Place of 
confinement 40 Large citrus fruit 



Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 2000 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jean Harlow, Jackie Joyner­Kersee, Mary Page Keller, David Faustino, Nicolas Freeling, Fatima Whitbread, Herschel Walker 
Happy Birthday: You have to do what's best for you this year. Be con­fident and optimistic about your goals, and you will get the support you need. You will be open and re­ceptive to new ways of doing things, and the more you can learn this year, the better. You will have a greater desire to delve into subjects that never interested you in the past. Your numbers: 15, 18, 25, 28, 33, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Helping a friend or relative will bring rewards that you least expect. You can enlighten those you talk to with your positive vision and thought. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will attract members of the opposite sex with your intensity and magnetic stare. Organu.ations you believe in will place you in a position of leadership. 
00 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Escapist tendencies will only get you into trouble. Your colorful stories will bring you attention, but you may hurt someone's fee!ings if your exaggera­tions cause them embarrassment. 
00000 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can learn a lot if you listen. Seminars will enlighten in more ways than one. You can find yourself hopelessly in love if someone you meet captures you with his or her finesse. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can add some unique features to your living quarters today. Don't be too shy to put some of your own works of art up on your walls. 000 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You 
may find yourself trapped between 
unfinished business and family 
affairs. Get up early and rid yourself 
of those odd jobs left hanging over 
your head. The rest of the day is 
yours to enjoy. 000 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): You can 
accomplish more than you thought 
possible if you mix business with 
pleasure. Extend an invitation to 
clients for dinner and entertainment. 
00000 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): You 
can tum things around if you do a 
little soul-searching and look into 
some self-help literature. A physical­
fitness club will give you an outlet 
and promote romance. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't allow others to force you into doing things that are not your cup of tea. Relatives may not be that accommodating and could start a family feud if you aren't careful. 
0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You will want to spend time with friends or family. Your outgoing nature will surprise others today. You can open up to your mate about what you expect out of the union. 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You can clear up problems at work and look good in the eyes of superi­ors. Advancements should be com­ing your way. Don't let your mate's jealousy stand in the way of your celebration. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Trav­el will bring you into contact with close friends or relatives. Soak up the fresh air, converse with those who offer mental stimulation, and enjoy the good food provided. 000 

Birthday Baby: You will always want to do it all. You must learn to set pri­orities in order to reach higher levels. You will have plenty to offer, but will tend to spread yourself too thin. Discipline will be required to focus on what's trul)' important to you throughout life. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) C 2000 Universal PressSvndicate 
N o t r e D a m e 

WEEKEND FORECAST 

www.nd.edu/-sub 
TODAY 


The World is Not Enough 
Tonight-Bpm & 10:30pm Saturday-8pm & 10:30pm 
101 DeBartolo ~ $2 
(No food or drink.) 
TOMORROW 


Shopping trip to Michigan City Outlets 
Saturday ~ free Bus leaves at 11 
Gets back at 4:30 
Sign up at LaFun Info Desk. 
SUNDAY 

French Film Fest 
Sunday~ 2pm Annenberg Aud. 
at the Snite 



Finishing Strong 
The Irish track and field team hosts the Alex Wilson Invitational this weekend in Loftus.






PORTS 
page 22 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER 

WOMEN 's BASKETBALL 


Big East tourney provides test for McGraw's squad 
By KERRY SMITH Assistant Sports Ediror 
After Notre Dame's regular season loss to top-ranked Connecticut. college basket­ball analysts remarked that the No. 6 squad in the nation had stubbed its toe. 
But ask any Irish player and they'll tell you it hurt more than that. 
That loss will be on the minds of every Irish player as she steps on the court at Gampel Pavilion during the Big East tournament in Storrs, Conn. this weekend. 
With Connecticut occupying the top spot in the bracket and Notre Dame seeded sec­ond. the two teams are des­tined to meet in the finals. 
While the Huskies walked away with the regular season Big East title, the Irish aren't about to let them take the tournament crown as well. 
"We're excited for the tour­nament and this team has got a lot of heart," senior guard Danielle Green said. "We know we can make it to the finals and can compete with Connecticut." 
The Irish, who finished with only one conference loss dur­ing a 24-3 regular season, matched Connecticut for the better part of the game, but stumbled in the opening and closing minutes, dropping an 18-point decision to the Huskies. 
The Irish don't plan to make the same mistakes twice. 
"That is the sort of game where you can't spot them Pight points like we did," Green said. "We played well in the middle, but we know the beginning and end will be key for us." 
As much as they are antici­pating a rematch with thr Huskies, the Irish have learned the importance of not looking past the next game on their schedule. With near losses to cellar-dwelling learns in the Big East during the regular season because of looking forward on the sched­ule, the Irish aren't focusing on the Huskies until thev make it to the finals Tuesday night. 
"We have to havfl the one­gam e-at-a-time mentality," said Green. "We can't just look forward to Connecticut and forget about the other rounds of the tournament." 
The road to meet the Huskies in the finals, while short. is not easy. 
The Irish earned a bye in the tournament's first round on Saturday and will take to the court Sunday to face off against the winner of the Miami-Seton Hall opening­round game. 
The Irish met both teams in the regular season and know what to expect. The Irish downed Miami twice in the regular season. 
Playing in Coral Gables. Fla., the Irish took home a 76­
see WOMEN/page 14 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Irish look to stop the bleeding at Georgetown 
ourselves." guard Kevin Braswell, who shooting the ball in recent shooters on the floor for the By BRIAN KESSLER Notre Dame has played its averages 14.5 points per weeks. Carroll, who averages Irish, the Orangemen were Sports Editor way out of the NCAA game, and 7-foot center Ruben nearly 10 points per contest, unable to cheat on Murphy 
Tournament and looks to get Boumtje Boumtje, who aver­was held scoreless against the down low. 
Head coach Matt Dohertv back on track before heading ages 13.6 points per game and Orange men. The formation also opened isn't into trends, especially to New York for the Big East 8.2 boards per contest. Center "We need to stop taking bas­up the outside for Notre Dame, when it comes to losing. Tournament. Lee Scruggs has also come on ketball for granted and come as it drained several big 3­
But the first-year coach finds "Georgetown is a tough strong in recent weeks and out and play," Dillon said. "We pointers in the closing minutes himself in exactly that situa­team," senior point guard will play a key role in aren't good enough to just play of that contest. The Irish tion as Notre Dame (16-13, 7-Jimmy Dillon said. "We need to Georgetown's offensive one half of basketball. We outscored the Orangemen by 
8) travels to Washington D.C. take care of business there scheme. need to leave it all out on the 12 points in the final 20 min­to take on Georgetown (15-12, and see where we get seeded The Irish, on the other hand, floor Saturday." utes. 5-9} at the MCI Center in the Big East Tournament will go to battle with the Big Dillon has had the hot hand Doherty hopes his troops are Saturday. and make some noise there. East's leading scorer and lead­from three-point land and is fresh as the Irish close out the 
"Two is a trend," Doherty Hopefully we can get into a ing rebounder, sophomore among the conference's lead­regular season on the road. said. "Three is unacceptable." rythmn and get something Troy Murphy. Murphy is aver­ers in assists. "I've been trying to save 
The Irish have dropped three going." aging 23.1 points and 10.5 In Wenesday's loss to their legs, but maybe I've straight and six of their last 10 "We have no choice," rebounds per game. Syracuse, Doherty may have saved them too much," games heading into Saturday's Doherty said following The All-American candidate found an effective lineup. The Doherty said. "There is no season finale. Wednesday's 73-71 loss to is the only player in the coun­Irish head coach went with a manual that tells you to go 
"You talk about our backs Syracuse. "We need to be try in the top 10 ot' both those smaller group in the second hard one day and light the being against the wall," thinking positive thoughts." categories. Notre Dame will half of that contest, playing next." Doherty said. "Our backs are Georgetown is coming off a also need a lift from David freshman small forward Jere The Irish, who sport just a 3­through the wall right now. We 72-54 victory over West Graves (13.6 ppg) and Matt Macura in place of a true cen­9 road record, will be sure to have no time to feel sorry for Virginia. The Hoyas are led by Carroll, who has struggled ter. With four good perimeter lay it on the line Saturday. 
Baseball vs. Iowa
vs. Wake Forest 
fl) 
at Pacific Coast Doubles at Pennsylvania
Today, I p.m. 
at Minneapolis, Minn. 
La Jolla, Calif. 
Saturday, I p.m. 


SPORTS • ~ 
Today, 12:15 p.m. 
Today-Sunday
ATA 

vs. Georgetown Softball
vs. Michigan Stare at Big East Tournament 
. 

Saturday, Noon vs. Tennessee
~ Today, 7:05 p.m. Storrs, Conn. 
~

GLANCE ~ St ~ 
Saturday, noon Sunday-Tuesday, TBA 




