
Little boy lost 
ROTC pros 
Elian Gonzalez and his father's family have 
A student responds to recent questions regarding 
Wednesday
been moued to a secluded Maryland estate 
1\/olre Dame's ROTC program and whether or not 
while U.S. courts drcide his fate. 
it coincides with the rfniuersity's Christian beliPfs. 
APRIL 26, 
WorldNation . page 5 
Viewpoint . page 13 
2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 127 HTTP:/!OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Students provide campus security service 
Despite low student usage, SafeWalk continues to recruit 'walks' every night 
offered to all Notre Dame stu­By MAUREEN SMITHE dents and employees. The sArvire Assistant News Editor 
was ostablished ten years ago in response to concerns voiced by It wasn't a tough choice for female students about nighttime sophomore Chris Mahorn~y when safety. Operating between thP he decided to be a Safe Walk stu­hours of 8:30 p.m. -2:30 a.m., the dent security escort. service is integral to campus "It would be nice to think that security, according to SafeWalk Notre Dame director and doesn't need Notre Dame SafeWalk "Parents want their securitv of'fi­
because there children to be safe when cer Cappy isn't a threat Gagnon.
they go away to school,
of clanger, but "This is a 
this isn't a per­and Sa.feWalk provides great way for 
fect world, and both parents and students to while Notre help other
students with peace
Dame is students feel extremely safe ofmind." safe," he said. compared to D e n i s other college Lynch, a cap­
Chris Mahoney 
campuses, tain and
SafeWalk employee
there still eight-year exists the veteran of the potential for something to hap­program said his job promotes a pen," Mahoney said. "Parents safe and secure campus. want their children to be safe "As a SafeWalker, our primary when they go away to school, and responsibility is to provide a safe, SafeWalk provides both parents professional, friendly escort, from and students with peace of anywhere to anywhere on cam­mind." pus." Lynch said. "Essentially, we . 
Mahoney is one of more than a provide 'safety in numbers' to dozen student employees of SafeWalk, a nightly escort service 
see SAFEWALK/page 4 

Professor proposes new policy to U .N. 
By MARIBEL MOREY r\ews Wri[er 
Sanctions arn not always P!Tnrtiw and usually hurt the gmlf'ral population much more than the inwndPd ta1·got, the regime that violatPs tlw norms of' interna­tional law, s a i cl Ceorge Lopez, govt' r n ­lll Pll l pro­fossor and follow in ( lrn Kroc 

Lopez

Jnstit11t<'­
"Sanctions, ii' mort' sharply tunf'd. !'an lw an pf'foctive nwdmnism for bargaining our way into thl! corn values ot' the UnitPd Nations -prace, human righl<i and human secu­rity." lw said. 
This month. Lop1'z has bef'n working very dosl'ly with the U.N. and just returned from a symposium discussing his new book. which he wrote with University girnst lActurer. David Cortright. 
In "Thr Sanctions Decade: Assessing U.N. Strategies in the 1990s," Cortright and Lopez propose the UnitPd Nations sway from general trade and arms embargo to targeted financial sanctions. 
"Arms Pmbargoes are terrible because UN members are not willing to put in the effort nec­essary to makr embiugoes work," the professor said. "The general trade embargoes on Iraq ,md 1laiti wore disastrous on its humanitarian impact."· 
According to Lopez, one of the main reasons for t.hr; failun· of general trade embargoes is their lack ol' focus; thus, the "bad guys" arc able to pass the unrlesirahlc f'fforts of the sanc­tions to the gern~ral population. 
Focusing on U.I\. Security 
see SANCTIONS/page 6 
SMC lecture series honors women 
Editor's Note: This is the first of a three-part series on Corwergence, the conference that will be held this u•eekend at Saint Mary's. 
By KATIE McVOY News Writer 
This week, Saint l\lary's wel­comes back guest lecturers from the last 15 years to cele­b rnte the 16th annual Madrlrva 

"It fits for Saint Marv's, as a women's college, to be· a place for these women. We're offer­ing hospitality for them as women of wisdom." said Keith Egan, director of the weekend. "We'd like this to be a cross­roads whArn wompn's voices are heard, both for Saint Mary's alumna and the rest of the community." 
This year, thf' women who have spoken during the last 15 years will all return in order 
to collabo­
Lecture, 
rate on the 
Convergence 
'Charter for 
2000. 


Women of 
Faith .. The
T h e 
Madeleva 
charter is 
Lecture series 
meant to 
honors Sister 
provide faith 

enlarging and enriching to be with the lecturers who havP presented different aspects of' women's experience including their life in God," said Dolores Leckey, one of the women returning for the event. "I look forward to the various exchanges. both formal and informal. I also believe that the Convergence can convey signs of' hope to women throughout the church, hope that their girts and competen­cies are needed and valued in this great undertaking of' Christ:s mission." 
The cPlebration of Convergence 2000 is part of the Jubilee celebration. 
Saint Mary's will welcome Sandra Sclrneiders, who will give the keynote address. rnti­tlcd "With Oil in their Lamps: Faith, Feminism, and tlrn Future." She will c!Pliver the address on Friday at 7:30 p.m. in ()'Laughlin Auditorium. 
"I hope the Lecture ilsc>lf' will bo a challnnge to all who art> present to cmbrac1\ tlw fomi­
see LECTURE/page 4 
M a r y :vtadelcva every year. Madeleva pio­neered the graduate theology program at lhe College. Each year a leading female tlrnolo­gian is invited to come and speak to the women or the Collegf', encouraging them to take on important roles in Church and society. 
and wisdom 

to contempo­rary women who are seeking for spirituality in their lives. The 16 women attl)nding the conference will be presenting the 'Charter for Women of Faith' on Saturrlav at 7::-rn 
p . m . i n th P M o r ,:a u Li tt I e 
Theatre. "I think it will be both 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Granny knows best 
Family is incn~dibly important. This is some­thing I have known for a while, but never really thought about. I have come to realize it increasingly over the past thrPe years at Notre Dame. My parents have been divorced since I was three, and neither par­rnt has rnmarriC'd. BrcausP. Lila Haughey of' this. I have not experi­P.nced a family life in the traditional sense, yet I have Viewpoint always appreciated the Editor uniqueness of rny own fam­ily. I do know that I will be a little lost when I form my own family because I have little to base family relationships on. 
My family consisted of my mother, my older brother, our dog and me. I had grandparents in Connecticut that I rarely saw and grandparents close-by that took care of me frequently. I never saw either of my parents interact with each other except to work out weekend custody arrangements and my father rarely disciplined me -when he tried. both he and I knew it was pointless. However, the thing I feel I huvo missed most is interar,tion with my father's family. 
I think we all know that Ji.vorce separates the immediate family unit, dividing children between their parents, but it also alienates the exwnded family. I visited my grandma in Conni'cticut over spring hrna k; it was tlw tenth time I have seen her. and it was the first time tlrn.t I had the opportunity to sP-e who slrn was as a person. We both rcaliz<'d how much we still had to learn about each other and how much we ,.,ere alike, although she is 86 and I am 21. 
We spent the week discussing her college experience, the depression, World War II and my parents. I learned more about my family in live days than l have learned my whole life. We looked at family pictures and talked about my cousins -small things that may seem insignifi­cant, but are incredibly valuable considering I had little previous exposure to them. I had known my grandma as "my grandma," my grandpa's wife and my father's mother. She was a great cook (her specialty was apple pie), she gave big hugs, she was a talented artist and she loved the color pink (her front door was always pink}. 
Over spring break [ saw a different side of her, my grandpa has been dead for three years, and in that time she has become more individually defined. She drove me around Connecticut in her manual transmission Saturn. and she told me about how she was the first child in her family to go to college, that when she graduated she was stuck in the depression without a job and little prospect of finding one. 
She told me her father had died when she was ten and her mother had taken over the road construction business that had supported their family. Her mother wore pants and led the horses that ran the road machinery (keep in mind that it was 1924 when her father died. women's lib was a long way ofO. My grandma is a traditional woman, my grandfather pumped her gas for her until he died, and at 83 she had to learn how to do it herself. However, she was a strong woman, and I learned that a month ago. 
Over spring break, I realized how mature I am at 21, and how young my grandmother is at 
86. We were able to sit and talk as two women -the barriers of child and adult seemed erased. It was both meaningful and fun; I only wish a long strand of such encounters could have preceded it. It certainly made the bond of famjly seems so much more important and fragile to me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of thr author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF  
News Maureen Smirhe Helena Rayam Kiflin Turner Sports Tim Casey Viewpoint Dustin Fenell  Scene Jacqueline Browder Graphics Jose Cuellar Production Molly McVoy Lab Tech Liz Lang  
i f I L  The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monda,• ,hrough Friday except during exam :ind vacation pe.-iQ(h,, The Observer is J. member of chc A..sociareJ Pre,u. All reproduction right> arc reserved.  

THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 
vVednesday  Thursday  
. Card Party: Spring Card  . Art: SouLh Bend Regional  
Party. by Woman of t.lrn  Museum ol' !\rt, various  
Moose, 6:30 p.m .. South  exhibits, 11  a.m.  -5 p.m..  
Bend  South Rend  
. Art: New Moon Gallery:  . Seminar: Osten-arthritis  
"Miniaturns" on exhibil,  seminar and worshop,  
l 1 a.m.  -5 p.m.. Hernton  Nutrit,ion Works,  
Harbor  6 -8 p.m .. Mishuwaka  

Friday 

. 
Church Sale: Annual Spring Hummage Sale, 9 a.m. -7 p.m .. SL Peter Lutheran Church, Mishawaka 

. 
Music: Borders, .Judy Berg, 8 p.rn., Mishawaka 


Saturday 
. 
Art: Michiana Orchid Society Show, lloly Cross College. Vincent Atrium. 10 a.m. -5 p.m. 

. 
Music: Media Play, lleggae with Fada Wayne, 7 -9 p.rn., Mishawaka 



OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Nike president pulls $30 million gift from Oregon 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Earlier this month, the University of Oregon decided to join the Worker Rights Consortium. Now, in the com­ing weeks. the school might be faced with another import.ant decision: how to come up with an extra $:~o million lo finance an $80 million football sta­dium renovation. 
Last week, a '\voll-placod source" at the Nike Corporation contacted a uni­VNsi ty reprnsentative to inform school officials that Nike prosid1rnl Phil Knight, a University of Oregon alumnus, had withdrawn his inCnrmal plmlg11 to cov11r $30 million of the nm­ovation's price tag. 
The move is thn latest in a series of shots the apparel giant has taken at the WHC, a grass-roots sweatshop monitoring group supported by stu­dent sweatshop activists and orga­nized labor. 
"It's obvious that [Knight is] trying to sway the school's direction with his money." 
Rana Kasich Licensee Labor Practices Task Force member 
Lasl month, Nike moved to nullil'y its hockey equipment agronment with Brown University af'tpr the school triPd to renegotiate its deal in accor­dan cn with the WHC terms. Principally, Nike says it is opposed to Urn WBC because tlrn company isn't allowed to alliliato with the organiza­tion and can't sit on its governing board. 
WRC supporters cry foul and accus1i I\Jike of' throwing money around to scare schools away from the consor­tium. 
"It's obvious that !Knight isl trying to sway the school's direction with his money. That's the danger in tl111 cor­poratization of' schools." said Hana Kasich, a University of Minnesota License<~ Labor Practices Task Force member. "He's obviously trying to interfere with the democrat.ii' process by using his monHy to inllunnce it. It's really low politics." 
Knight's alma mater has be1\11 reap· ing the b1~ncfits of his success -cash­ing in around $30 million from the apparel magnat11 during tlw past 10 years. 
But tho school's decision to join a consortium that Nike says it is "f'umla­nrnntally opposed to" has rnndnrPd Knight's relationship with tlw univnr­sily tenuous, and he is considering taking his philanthropy olsmvhern. 
Texas A&M petitions for bonfire 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
With the fate of Aggie Bonfire up in the air, somP Texas A&M University students have already begun fighting to keep the tradition. An effort called "Keep the Fire Burning" is collecting signatures and selling T-shirts and bumper stickers outside the Memorial Student Center. "I love bonfire, and I just wanted to remind them how students feel before we leave," said Will Clark, one of the efforts organizers and a senior rangeland ecology major. So far. Clark said, hn and his small group of volunteers have gathered over 1,000 signatures and received hundreds of email messages from students and alumni in support of continuing bonfire. Beth Ridel, a "Keep the Fire Burning" orga­nizer and Class of '99, said she wants future genera­tions of Aggies to be able to experience the cama­raderie of pulling together !'or a common task. "Working on bonfire has been a great experience. It really helps develop leadership skills, and I formed some great friendships," Ridel said. Clark said he is open to changes in the way bonfire is built but he insists that it remain a student-organized event. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWenther"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L Wedn~sday {) 65 37 
Thursqay  ~  64  46  
!  
Friday;  c::1  62  43  
Satur~.ay  ~  60  42  
'  
Sunday  ,.. ro 63  46  

f_y..........._i'••" --.j',..\.;J 

Q,Q,Qp~Q ~ ~ u 
Showers T•srorms Ra,n Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy VJa Assoeialect Press Graphfc.SNet 
Rutgers recalls Armenian genocide 
NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. 

Commemorating the genocide that wiped out 1.5 million Armenians, students gathered on Monday afternoon in fear that time and ignorance would incrnasingly obscure the tragedy. Although members of the Rutgers Armenian Club who organized tlrn event liste,rnd attentively to the speakers, hardly any passersby paused to listen to the df1monstration. Outgoing president of' the club and Rutgers College senior llaig Hovsepian said he was not disappointed by the low turnout. "As long as we're saying it out loud, peopln can't help but hear it. We still think it's important," he said. Starting from the late 1970s to 1980s, Hovsepian said Monday has been recognized by Armenians worldwide as the commemoration of the genocide in Turkey. Since he has been at Rutgers, Hovsepian said interest in tlrn Armenian genocide has bfrnn growing slowly but surnly. Evidently. he said, his efforts have not be1m !'ailing on deaf ears. "It's difficult to quantify tlrn nlTncts by how many peopln turned out for onn demonstra­tion." he said. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather<> forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 26. 
,........ .................. 

G 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY PrHfillll; r'"7 r,77 ~ ~ f:'7 ~i _,~~
® © G ~ ..ll.J L'ul L:c:..J ii:::. 'v 'itti,¥ 
High L0w Showers Rain T~a10tm1 Flurries snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy _C!~U~V 
--------------~------~-----
Vitt A5!;otialed PrtJSS 

Wednesday, April 26, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


cNAfA€P-1n\age-Awards
I 1 

Freshman ofthe year 
Helena Rayam 


Erskine Peters Award 
Reverend Hugh Page, Jr. 
Artisan ofthe year -Visual 
Jason Williams 

Artisan ofthe year -Performing 
Quincy Starnes 


Outstanding Community Service 
Stephanie Andre 
Senior Female Athlete ofthe year Julie Henderson 
Senior Male Athlete of the year 
Lamont Bryant 


Senior of the year 
Joseph Joy 

JOSE CUELLAR/fhe Observer 
PERFORMED IN ENGLISH 
FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 2000 SATURDAY. APRIL 29, 2000 , ~ 
S3 STUDENTS AND SENIOR CITIZENS l 
7:30 PM. WASHINGTON HALL S6 GENERAL ADMISSION (RESERVED SEATING) ~­
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE. (219) 631-8128. \,_--.:, ~ PLEASE CALL (219) 631·62ffi OR VISIT WWWND.EDU/-MUSIC FOR MORE INfORM~TION. 
sweetest Thi--' . s.I 
·. 
~ • •,•,.... > 

._. 1.) Flowers 2.) Honey  , - 
3.) Copies Done Right!  
When you want your pictures sharp and done right the first time, we understand. The Copy Shop in the LaFortune Student Center will make certain that each copy you need is perfect,  

free from blur or loss of resolution. In fact, we want to make your copies picture perfect, clean, and visible. If you're still out of focus on copies, we will put things in perspective for you, and make the kind of photocopies you want. Stop in soon and check us out! 
.. 
Ca01pus center serves children 
. Early Childhood Development Center utilizes ND and SMC students 
By LAURA SELLINGER 
News Writer 
Walk through the doors of the Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) and you are fac0d with bright colors, children playing and smiling l'al:es. 
Since it began in 1971, th1• ECDC provides a learning environment to foster social, emotional. physical and cogni­tive development. in children. 
Part of the Center's mission 
"is to foster rnspoct, responsi­
bility, responsiveness and 
resourcefulness," said Terri 
Kosik, the Center's executive 
dirnctor. "These are attributes 
which make a competent indi­
vidual; our goal is to provide a 
positive environment which 
supports this." 
ECDC is funded by Saint Mary's and Notre Dame and provides both full and part­time programs for children on 1both rnmpuscs. Only children of parents affiliated with one of the two schools, or another Holy Cross Order institution 
may enroll in the center. 
During the school year, chil­
dren from two-years-old 

through kindergarten attfrnd teer Erin Formica. "I have programs, while children ages worked there since the begin­two through nine utilize the ning of my sophomore year, center during the summer. and our main responsibility is 
They benefit from a large to interact and play with the staff, of 50 teachers and more children -it has been fun to than 100 voluntr,ers. Most of watch them change and the volunteers are students grow." pursuing majors in child-relat­Through the ECDC, parents ed fields. can juggle the problems of 
"We are fortunate to have working or attending school college student volunteers and finding quality care for because they bring diversity to their children. the center,'' Kosik said. "Most parents are faced "Thanks to this diversity, the with what we call a trilemma. 
children havo  T  h  i  s  
enjoyed  a  includes  
wide range of  "We are fortunate to  finding,  
activities, from learning Spanish to  have college student volunteers because they  affording, and access­ing high­ 
watching soft­ball games." Art, music,  bring diversity to Lhe center''  quality care for their children,"  
literature,  Kosik said.  
movement,  Terri Kosik  In  an  
creative dra­ ECDC director  effort  to  

matics and field trips are used to pro­mote the individual growth of Pach child. 
"ECDC takes a hands-on approach to learning," Kosik said. "The children learn through movement-rich play and this is a large component of the curriculum." 
Students appreciate the opportunity as well. "I really enjoy working at the ECDC," said student volun­
7£e sprinymenus are in bloom al 0orin 's. 
Dine in the true spirit of Notre Dame, while experiencing the budding flavors of the season. Springtime at Sorin's brings a renewal of our menu as we honor our commitment to bringing you the finest foods available. Visit Sorin's at The Morris Inn, _
1 

and embrace the season. 
_ 
located at The Morris Inn 
-;: /" 


·--twww.sorinsnd.com •Reservations Recommended· 6p-2020 




(()py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
Phone 631-COPY 
High Volume Copying Color Copying, Scanning, & Printing Binding/ Laminating/ Fax Service Newsletters / Reports / Manuals Complete Desktop Publishing Service 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! 
Quality Copies, Quickly!'™



Something 
Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm 


rb~~J-

Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
Copyright 2000 • All Rights Reserved • 4/00 
accommo­
date as 

many fami­lies as possible, the ECDC has a income-based tuition struc­ture. With this structure, a family with limited resources pays half the market tuition rate because the University is subsidizing the center. 
Parents can also play an active role in the ECDC. There is an open-door policy for families who are enrolled in the center as well as meetings ,and parent-help11r days. 
Parent assistance on field 
trips is also welcome. 
CORRECTION 
In Scene's review of off-cam­pus living last week, it was reported that Castle Point did not have a pool on-site. The development does have an out­door pool on-site, and and indoor pool located at another complex. 
SUMMER INTERN 
Family Ventures, LLC of 
Northbrook, IL is seeking an undergraduate Summer Intern with an interest in web-based marketing. Family Ventures is launching a national magazine later this year which celebrates and encourages family life. E-mail resumes to John Madigan ('84) at info@becomingfamily.com 



Wednesday, April 26, 2000
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 



SafeWalk 
continued from µage l 
allow any member of the Notre Dame community to feel more cornfnrtabl<' about walking around the campus at night. We try to make p!>ople foci like they arp walking with friends, talking about whatever is ou their minds, while thf'y lwurl from place to placP around campus." 
Gagnon and his student escorts recognizP that Nutrn Damt:>, with its reputation as a safe campus, is not a likely place for a program like SafoWalk. 
"The campus has little reported crime and we tnnd to be some­what naive about that.'' Gagnon said. 
Furthermore, it is that spnse of security that causes SafeWalk to bn underutiliwd. Most nights. the servi.cP providns bf'twt:>en five and ten csmrL'>, climbing as high as 50 on a busy night. according to Gagnon. 
"An unfortunate consequence of the safi> perception of campus is that students arc lulled into a false sense of security ... and take risks. most of tlw tinrn without realiziug it. that can result in harm tn themsdvos or thnir prop­erty."' said Lynch.
In an atte.mpt to l.mnmw more useful for student'>, SafeWalk has implemented tactics to "recruit walks as well as receive walks. ff we see a woman walking by her­self we may try to catch up with her." Gagnon said. "If there are events on campus, such as an SYR or a basketball game, we'll hang out in the vicinity to try to 


Lecture 
continued from page 1 
nisl vision founded on the teaehing and praxis of Jesus and earn-it forward in the building~)!' a morn just and 
pcar.eful world." Schneiders said. 
Schneiders is a profes­sor of '.'Jew Testament Studies am! Spirituality at the Jesuit School of Theology at Berkley. She received a degree from the Institute 
0 f 
Catholique in Paris, 

"/ hope the Lecture itself of the week­
will be a challenge to all who are present to embrace the feminist 
vision founded on the teachings and praxis ofJesus." 
Sandra Schneiders keynote speaker 
a doctor­Madeleva and her inception of 
got poople to walk with us." 
Lynch cites other reasons for SafoWalk's low student usagn. 
"Because of a lack of knowl­l'uge, students often rnakti a great deal of assumptions about SafcWalk," he said. "The men and womau in the µrogram stdvo to do our job in a profi:lssiunal man­ner. yet some people still have these ridiculous ideas abOL1t us. We arc nol out to get students intu trouble with [Notrn Dame Security Polio~ DHpartmenil. just like we are not out there to find dates for the m~xt dorm danc1i... 
Mahoney said he finds tlw ser­vice c,ssential. 
"If only one student uses SafeWalk·on a particular night. and they foe! safe as u result, then it is a ~orthwhilo service," he said. "Thu value ol' feeling safo is difficult to quanti(y, and then~fore it's hard lo look at the service objectively and ask if it's worth­while." 
SafoWalk coordinator Joanna Fava agrees. 
"We do have many 'regulars· ­students that we pick up from their on-campus jobs and walk home at thP same tirues sevPral nights a week," she said. "For lhose students, the service is important. It makes thPrn more comfortable," she said. 
Once called. a SafoWalk team can usually arrive anywhere on campus within five minutes, according to Lynch. 
SafcWalk teams are made up of two students earh, with two teams working every night. Ear.h shift has a captain to supervise the other three workers. The cap­tains' coordinator, Fava, works closely with Gagnon. 
Fava's responsibilities include 
of our charge for the week­end) which might also be use­ful for other institutions," Schneiders said. "It is fairly rare that 16 women theolo·­gians can spend so much quality time together dis­cussing what really matters. I am very rn uch looking for­ward to that dimension 
end." 
T h e 
Madeleva Lecture series began in 1983 as a way to intensify S a i 11 t Mary's' mis­sion as a Catholic col­lege. It remembers Sister 

being on call to help teams oach night, organizing meetings, responding to the 1wcds aud con­cerns of Saf1•Walk onicers and captains and being available Lo answer questions. 
"Th(' other ollicr~rs and captains are so groat and fun to work with that it makes going to work and slaying on-duty until 230 a.m. so 
Every course we serve at Papa Vinos is a celebration ofgreat taste! 
Generous portions, all at affordable prices. Here's just a sampling: 
APPETIZERS 101 
Bruschetta Fried Calamari Spinach Artichoke Dip Fepperoni Bread And more... 
PIZZAS &CALZONES 201 
Margherita Primavera Quattro Formaggio 
Wild Mushrooms 
Special Daily Lunch Calzones 
much easier," Fava said. 

All students arc eligible to work as paiu SafoWalk escorl-;, accord­ing to Gagnon, and the program is always looking for morn under­class student workers. 
"l do an orientation with P<tch 110w person," Gagnon said. "Thm1 w<~ usuallv have Jo IFava! or Denis !Lynch! or ono ol' tho cap-
ENTREES 301 

Sizzlelini® Lasagna Salmone a/la Griglia Spaghetti Calabrese Daily Features 
DESSERTS 401 

Caramel Fecan Cheesecake Spumoni Torte • Apple Crisp Cannoli 
Tiramisu 
tains train during a shill -011 tho job training.'' I ,ynch finds the job to bc partic­ularly niwnrding. 
"Think about it -we got paid to walk around campus. to meet and interact with rww pPoplc and to make lhe campus a lit.tic safer," Im said. " All in all, the job is a lot 
of fun." 
ate from the Gregorian University in Rome.and received an honorary degree from Saint l\lary's in 1998. 
She has written several books. including "New Wineskins," "The Revelatory Text." and "Written That You May Believe." 
"l am hopeful that Convergence will be a stimu­lating r.vent for all concPrnPd and that v.e (the scholars pre­sent) will he able to produco a visionary 'charter· for the futu rti of College (that is part the graduate degrcc in theol­ogy. Between 1943 and 1970, when the program ended, 70 doctorates in theology and 334 master degrees werc awarded to ""omen who stud­ied in the program. When the program was first conceived, it was the only place in the world when~ women could earn graduate degrees in the­ology. 

Both the lecture and the paned presentatinn of the r,h artnr are free and opnn to tlrn public. 



-•l...
I!!J' 
. . 
.

orl 

Wednesday, April 26, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRF SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Russia expands parameters of nuclear doctrine 
MOSCOW 
A lOp military of'licial said Hussia's new mili­tary doctrinl'. whit'h nxpands the r,onditions under which nudcai: weapons could be used. also applies to prot<icting allies, the lnterfax rwws agpncy reported Tuesday The doctrine had raised concerns among some observers bcrausl' it says Hussia r.ould use nuclear wPapons ff otlrnr nrnans to rPpel an aggressor fail. Col. (;Pn. Valery Manilov. first dPputy rhicf of thP Hussian genflral staff. told a news conl'crnncn that tlrn policy also covers aggres­sion against allins, the report said. Manilov rnjnrtNl concPrns that thfl nPw military dor­trinc rd11•cls an incrPa.singly r.onfrontational attiludn. "Thi~ rnvl'rsl' is true. We regard all ('ountrirs as pot()ntial partners in upholding S<'curily and stability in the world," the r0port quot<'d him as saying. 
U.N. predicts Chernobyl event wilJ affect future generations 
GENEVA 
The UnitPd Nations rl'IP.ased a n<'w assess­mr,nt of' the 1986 Ch<'rnobyl nuclear nrnltdown Tuesday. saying th<~ vvorst health consP.­quencPs for millions of peoplP may be yet to romP. "At lr,ast 100 tinws as murh radiation was rP!Pas,1d bv this acrident as bv the two atomir bombs ·dropprd on [Jirosl~ima and Nagasaki rnmbin<'d" at tlw Pnd of World War rt. said a :1~-pag<' booklf'l l"f'ieased to mark the 14th annivrrsarv ol' thr disaster. "Morn than 7 million of our h~Ilow human beings do not havP tlrn luxury of forgetting. Tlrny arc still sufl'Pring. Pvnryday. as a result ol' what hap­pened," said U.N. Secretary-General Kol'i ,\nnan in a f'ornword. fie said the exact num­ber ol' victims may never be known. but that 3 million children rnquire treatment and "many will die prrmaturl'ly." 
Peace talks determine the fate of Palestinian state 
HAMALLi\11. West Bank 
As lsraeli-Pal<'stinian pnac<' talks enter a drcisiv(, stage. Jordan said yesterday it would back the, Palestinians on all issues and affirnrnd the crnation of a Palestinian state with nast Jerusalem as its r.apital. Jordanian Forl'ign MinislPr Abdul-lllah Khatib made the assurancrs in a news ront'!'rence following a mtwting br,twePn Jordan's King Abdullah II and Pah,stinian IPader YassPr Arafat in the town of' ltamallah. In a mrdia briefing aftr,r th«' two kad<,rs ml'l. Pall'stinian Planning Minislnr Nabil Shaath said Abdullah's meet­ing .vilh Arafat was important for the peace process. lsranli Prime Minister Ehud Barak. Khatib said the Palestinians have Jordan·s backing on all issues, "foremost among which is the formation of an indep<mdent Palestinian slat(, on land ocr.upied in 1967, including east .lerusalrm.· · 
ltii1ii#liitiMM¥tJI
Dow AMEx: 
896.04 .ONES , 15.32
. .,,
' 
+218.72 Nasdaq: 

3711.23 +228.7~ 
NYSE 
6511.77 
+ 111.59 


Composite
S&P 500: 

Volnme:
1477.44

11124.82 1,071,139,968
+47.58 



VOLUME LEADERS 

S:~2tSR6.tfl 1;i.sar~1 ~ ~WWg& I ~IWlilil l!B.ls;;I MIC'R090PT CORP MSFT +4, .14 +2.75~0 
,9-. 38 
CISCO .'iYSTtMS CSCQ . ,l,.(lf, +2. 56 25 66. 00 norms Ct'.INM INC E.l<DS -4.99 -4.1200 '18. 38 OllCLB con oacr. +,f,. )1 . :'3.1225 '75 .'5, 
JDS UNIPHASE JDSU t-16,18 +12.99'15 93.31 COMPAQ COMPUTER CPQ +l!i .24. .+f,. 0000 '30 .25 NASDA.Q 100 SIIAR +6. 75 +S.7200 90 • ..f.7 INTEL CO&P rnrc . 1.fi,f, ,e.a1so 125. 00 QU.l.LCOMM INC QCOM-+'5. JI +lS.1:BO 10,. U OBLL COMPUTBH OBLL +1.06 +3.370(1 s1.u 


Elian reunion stirs party debate 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Elian Gonzalez and his Cuban familv moved Tuesday t<J a secluded locatio;1 on Maryland's EastP.rn Shore as the Clinton administration arranged to have four playmates visit him. In a closed-door meeting, Attornr.y General Janet lleno failed to quiet Republican criticism of her decision to use furce to reunite l'athPr and son. 
Hcno told B senators that the possi­bility of firearms in the house of Elian's Florida relatives was a key consideration for the military-style raid. partidpants said. 
\Yhile several Democrats praised her performance, Republir.an senators emPrged from the si>ssion with frnsh criticism of Reno and the pre-dawn raid in Miami. 
"Many nf the qu0stions wern not adl'quately answered," said Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott. R-Miss , who had arranged the merting. 
Lotl announced hearings into the raid next week by the Senale Judiciary Committee -and suggested that Elian's father. Juan Miguel Gonzalez, would be among those sought for testimony. He r.onceded, however, that Gonzalez probably couldn't be compelled to testify. given his status as a Cuban citizen. 
Members of both parties said the exchanges with Reno had been cor­dial. but that criticism was freely l'Xpressed by many attendees. · 
Meanwhile, U.S. marshals moved 
AFP Photo 
Elian, his father, stepmother and half 

After months of deliberation, Elian Gonzalez was reunited with his father.
brother from the apartment at nearby 


Attorney General Janet Reno's decision continues to recieve criticsm.
Andrews Air Force Base, where they had stayed sinr.e Saturday night, to an five months after the boy's rescue in family had four or live bodyguards estate at Aspen Institute's Wye River the Atlantic, "was long overdue." He who had permits to carry conr.ealed Conference Center to await court 
urged that the family be given "the weapons and that there were reportsaction over whether Elian should be 
space it needs to heal its wounds and of weapons in the house behind that of allowed to return to Cuba. 
strengthen its bonds." Elian's great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez, 
State Department spokesman James Speaking at an unrelated \'\ihite where the boy had been stayingRubin said that, at the father's House ceremony, Clinton also praised before the reunion with his father. request. four playmates of Elian -the federal agents who swooped in In addition, Marislevsis Gonzalez, 
each accompanied by an adult -will 

and removed the 6-year-old boy from the great-uncle's daughter, told a fed­be allowed to come from Cuba to visit the Miami house on Saturday morning eral official last Thursday that if him for about tv.·o weeks. A teacher 
for a "very, very difficult job to do with agents were coming to pir.k up Elian and cousin, previously granted visas, 
no easv choices." "they ought to know that there are planned to fly to the United States on 
He also warmly commended Reno more than cameras in the house," Wednesday. -a warmth she did not get from according to Justice spokeswomanThe Rev. Joan Brown Campbell of 
Republir.ans on Capitol Hill. Carole Florman. "We took that as a the National Council of Churches, a "This use of force was totally unnec­threat," Florman said. supporter of the father's effort to be 
essary," Sen. Connie Mack said after But Senate Minority Leader Tom reunited with his son. said the chil­
the meeting. And Sen. Arlen Specter Daschle, invited by Lott to the session dren were being brought here to cre­said that despite Reno's expressions of sympathetic to the administration's ate "a sense of normalcy for him 
concern about guns, "they had no evi­handling of the case, told reporters,about the life he has lect" and will 
dence of guns in the house." Nor were "they chose to show force so theylead." 
any found. he said. wouldn't have to use force." At the President Clinton, meanwhile, said Defending the use of force, a senior same time, he said he would not Elian's reunion with his father, nearly Justice Department official said the oppose Lott's plan to hold hearings. 

PHILLIPPINES 

Muslim rebels suspected in kidnapping 
the kidnappings of three swim out to the kidnap­Andres, whose navy plane
Associated Pre.ss 

!long Kong fishery workers pers' boat and then hiding conducted a three-hour 
ISABEL/\ in 1998 and a businessman in bushes. search of the sparsely 
A Philippine rebel com­freed in January after The hostages include at inhabited area, said he mander is suspected of being held for 70 days, least 1 O foreigners from saw no signs of the kidnaµping of 21 people at acr.ording to the military. Germany. France, South hostages. Malaysian diving resort The kidnapping ordeal Africa, Finland and Early Tuesday. the Abu and is holding thf!m on began Sunday night. Lebanon. They also includ­Sayyaf -the Muslim rebel islands at the Philippines' Visitors to Sipadan Island, ed a Filipino worker and group under siege for southern tip, officials said one oi' the world's top div­nine Malavsians, authori­holding 27 Filipinos Wednesday. ing resorts. saw their vaca­ties said. The nationality of hostage for five weeks ­
"Thev arP here." Sulu tions disintegratfl into ter­the 21st hostage was not claimed responsibility. But provin~'.ial Governor ror when six armed known. later its spokesman. Abu Abdusakur Tan said. assailants stormed the A Philippine police intel-Ahmad, said he was not adding that thr3y are prob­white-sand beaches, 1 i gence report said certain the group was ably being held by Galid abducting 21 people, Tuesday th'al Lhe hostages involved. Andang. the commander of including at least 10 for­had been taken on two A waitress who escaped Muslim Abu Sayyaf rebels eign tourists. An American fishing boats to the Sulu the abduction added in the province. couple, James and Mary province islands, about one weight to the belief that 
Andang is also suspected Murphy of Hochester. N.Y.. hour away from Sipadan. Muslim rebels were of having masterminded escaped by refusing to But Lt. Edgar Joseph responsible. 
-

Sanctions 
continued from page 1 
Council sanctioned embargoes, Cortright and Lopez propose that targeted financial sanctions will raise the cost of leaders' obnox­ious behavior to the point that they would want to change their behaviors. 
"[The sanctions1 would aim at assets, properties and the move­ment of money," Lopez said. This would freeze the bank nent, the opposing options pose humanitarian damage. 

"Targeted financial sanctions is an idea of the last couple of years and is perceived as a more humane tactic," J.opnz said. 
There is no reason to bring the entire economy to its knees or to hurt innocent citizens on the streets as is done with general trade and arms sanctions, acrording to the professor. 
Financial sanctions are the pre­sent emphasis in the U.N. Security Council because~ Canada is the presi­dent of' the 
accounts of "Targeted financial council for this month, a
targeted indi­sanctions is an idea of 
viduals, mak­rotating posi­
the last couple ofyears
ing travel and tion. 
movement of and is perceived as a "When the money diffi­[President! is
more humane tactic." 
not one of the
rult. T h i s 

big five, they method of George Lopez want to make sanctions government professor a theme dur­
places the emphasis on the diplomats and supporters of the targeted regime. As countries grow weary of the embargoes that stifled economies and led poor populations even poorer. the 
U.N. is "ready for a more positive use of sanctions," Lopez said. 
Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic and his supporters are the first serious targets of finan­cial sanctions. This time last year. the European Union targeted Milosevic because of his actions in Kosovo and his determination for ethnic cleansing. 
With this case, "there's a wait and see attitude," said Lopez. So far, "Milosevic has not changed his mind on Kosovo, and has not been put out of power." 
While the success of targeted financial sanctions is not immi­ing their presi­

dency," Lopez said. Canada chose to reform sanctions in becoming more humane and more effoctive with­out contradicting each of' these goals. 
Lopez and C:ortright were fund­ed by the Canadian government for this study and were aski. d to finish their book by S<'ptember of last year for its proposal this month. 
"Prom May 1 to August I, I had no life," Lopez said. 
Lopez interviewed U.S. Government Departments and the CIA in New York and Washington for about a month. When he met with CIA experts, he was not given their names and was granted access only to dialogue. 
"They will not simply give you information, they will serve as corrective," Lopez said. "I [also] felt a great deal of' support from the Secretariat of the United Nations [in this study]." 
Before their September dead­line, Cortright and Lopez went to a cottage in Syracuse, Ind. for four days to write. Lopez inter­viewed 150 of the 200 people, but "deputized Richard Conroy and Jaleh Dashti-Gibson to do most of the work," sairl Lopez. Both Conroy and Gibson received their master's and doctoral degrees at Notre Dame. 
Amidst a ripe climate for sanc­tions reform, Lopez and Cortright were chosen by the Canadian government for this study because they have been involved with sanctions research in the last decade. 
"People trust our work and they knew that we'd look at it and investigate stuff because we do not have all the answers," Lopez said_ 
Since financial sanctions have already been use<l by the European Union towards Milosevic, Lopez and Cortright "pulled the ideas together and helped focus [the U.N.'sl atten­tion," the professor. 
Lopez and Cortright's proposal was passed on Tuesday. The U.N. has created working groups and Lopez and Cortright will conduct a follow-up study on targeted financial sanctions. 
"Financial sanctions pull people bar:k to good behavior and an· econo,?1ic mea?s for bringing peace, Lopez said. 

HOMES FOR RENT 
2000-2001 SCHOOL YEAR 

-Domus Properties has 3,4,5, and 8 bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year 
BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)27 4-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)67 4-2572 


Wednesday, April 26, 2000 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
page 7 

Supreme Court judges abortion bill 
Nebraska Attorney General Questions and comments Don Stenberg argued in seek­from two key justices ­ing reinstatement of a law that Sandra Day O'Connor and made it a crime for doctors to Anthony Kennedy -indicated perform partial-birth abor­concern over the state law's tions. sweep. 
But Simon Ileller, represent­O'Connor noted that the pro­ing a Nebraska doctor, said cedure Stenberg said was thP: none of tho target of state's pur­Nebraska's 
ported inter­"The state interest here ban "may be 
ests "is suffi­very similar
is drawing a bright line 
cient to over­to" a type of 
r idc a hetu)een abortion abortion 
woman's and infanticide" used far interest in more often. her health Partial­
Don Stenberg
and bodily birth abor­integrity." · Nebraska attorney general tion is not a T h e medical Nebraska t e r m . law, ho said, is "so broadly Doctors call the method dila­written it could prohibit most tion and extraction, or D&X, second-trimester abortions" because it involves partially extracting a fetus, legs first,
and lead to making all abor­from the uterus into the birth
tions "more dangerous for women." 
21 and still a cutie! 
Happy 21st Birthday, Jim 







canal,. where thP: skull is cut and its contents drained. 
A more common procedure is dilation and evacuation or D&E, in which an arm or le'g of a live fP:tus may be pulled into the birth canal during the abortion operation. 
Calling both methods "grue­some,'' O'Connor asked Stenberg, "Do you take the position that the state of Nebraska could also prohibit D&E abortions for pre-viability pregnancies?" 
When Stenberg said he did not take that position "for pur­poses of this case," O'Connor shot back, "It is difficult to read the statute and think that is SO." 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 26, 2000 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

• 2-6 Rock Climbing Wall
•
• 

3-5 Canoe Races on Lake Marian
•

• 3-7 Bouncy Boxing
•
• 

3-7 Pop-A-Shot Basketball
•
• 

3-7 Caricatures (Z Artists!)
•
• 

3-7 DJ Tod Moorhead
•
• 

4-7 Balloon Animals
•
• 

4:30-6:30 Dinner on Library Green
•
•

• with Cotton Candy. Snowconczs• • 
picnic food. and more!*
•
• 

7-8:30 Band Blind Man•s Bluff
• •• Chicago based acapella group•
• 9-1 0: 30 Chainsaw Juggler Chad Taylor
•

• A show you will never forget!
•

• 10:30 11Sixth Sense11 on Library Green 
•

• Remember your blankets 
•

• Tape your TV Shows this week and take part in
•

• SMCTostal!
•

• T-Shirts will be on sale for $10.
• 

Keep an eye out! 
•
•
•
• 
I : •• 
I •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
•

• *Co-exchange tickets available at Haggar front desk • • or at the picnic dinner. • 
• Sponsored by SAB * •
• 

* www.saintmarys.edu/---sab • 
Wednesday, April 26, 2000 The Observer. NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Ver01ont laWillakers approve nation's first gay union bill 
Thrt•e homosexual couples The court gave the other without hefty taxes, Legislature said they were
Associated Press 
and their lawyers. who sued Legislature lime to decide and protection from having Lo being asked to grant special in 1997 wlrnn they were whether to let gays marry or testify against one another. rights to people whose
MONTPELIER 

Lawmakers gave final denied marriage licenses, to create some kind of But there are responsibili­lifestyles they could not sup­watched in the crowded domestic partnership. ties as well. For example, port.
approval TttPsday to legisla­
llouse chamber as the final Lawmakers opted for a paral­same-sex partners will have
tion making Vermont the l'irsL "If this bill passes, this day
roll was called. lel system for homosexuals, to assume each pther's debt shall live in infamy through­
stato to grant gay couples 
Stacy Jollus and Nina Beck creating what they called and pay child support.
nearly all of out the country and through­
stood crarlling their 5-month­civil unions. Ci\'il unions will not entitle
the rights Nation'slirst out the world. This is against
old son. Selh. Peter Harrigan AfLer the bill takes effect couples to
and b,!1rnfils natural 
gay civil stood emhrar.ing Stan Baker, July 1. couples will be able to benefits
of' marriage. law." said
who held a small necklace go to their town clerks for bestowed by "Ifthis bill passes. this
Th? state union bill. Hepublican
from which his parents' wed­licenses. Then they will have the federal
!louse voted . stale House day shall live in infamy Rep. Hf1nry
ding rings dangled. And Holly their unions certified bv a government79-68 for Puterbaugh held hands with justice of the peace, judge' or in areas such throughout the country Gray.
the .. civil approved it 
Supporters

Lois Farnham. who wiped member of the clergy. as Social and throughout the
uniuns" bill, 79-68 argued that
tears from Breakups Security and
which was world. This is against traditional
. grants gay her eyes. will I.Jc han­irnmigratiuu. 
marriages

approvnd by couples many 01 "This isn't "/ think the powerful dled in And most natural law. " 
the Senate between
marriage, F a m i I v states will
last wr,pk. the same message is that in men and
but it's a Co u r t , j u s·t probably not 
Henry Gray 
Domocralic Vermont. we tend to women
benefits as huge and as divorces recognize
(; 0 V Republican representative would not
powerful value people for who a r e , civil unions.
same-sex

II n w a r d be under­
bundle of although
they are. not what Still. no
Dean said marriages rights that they will be state has mined if he will sign they are." gays were granted the same
. divorces, we'v•i finally called disso­ever gone so far in recogniz­
i t . p o s s-i b I y rights.
gotten," lutions. ing gay relationships. 
as soon as called Baker said. The more "May we be the last genera­
Howard Dean "I think this definitely
Thursday. ti on of gay and lesbian
dissolutions, The bill than 300 places Vermont in the fore­
governor

"I think camn about bmrnfits that Vermonters who have formed
front in this country, places
will be handled

thn powerful after lhe the state Vermont on par with Nordic our committed relationships rnessagt> is inFarnilyCourt Vermont confArs on and European countries and without the possibility of a that in Suprnme Court unanimously married couples now will Canada," said Beth HoLiuson, law that grants us our rights. Vermont. we ruled in Decomber that gay flow lo same-sex couples, a lawyer who argued the gay benefits and responsibilities," ll'nrl to valun 1woplc for who couplPs wen• being unconsti­including the ability to make couples' case before the said Rep. William Lippert. tfrn 
they are, not what they ar<'." tutionally denied the rights medical decisions on behalf Vermont Supreme Court. only openly gay member of Dnan said. and bnncfits of marriage. of partners, inherit from each Opponents in the the Legislature. 
The last two food service training workshops for the spring semester will be held on the following two dates. 
FOOD SERVICE TRAINING 
GEARED TOWARD FRESHMAN O'COMMISSIONERS 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26 4:00 PM MONTGOMERY THEATER 
CONCESSION STAND TRAINING 
GETITOUT DITHE WAYNOW! 
THURSDAY, APRIL 27 4:00 PM NOTRE DAME ROOM (INLAFORTUNU 
QUESTIONS? 
Call Ryan Willerton in the Student Activities Office at 631-7309. 

Gala to raise $18 million for Republican Party 
• Corporate sponsors contribute to largest single­night fundraiser 
Associated Press 
WASHl!\GTON 

Crorge W. Rush's first fund­raising effort for the Republican Party will collect a record $18 million at a black-tie gala boast­
ing a guest list that reads like a Who's Who of interests with busi­ness before the govern­ment. 


AT&T, the Bush National H i f I e Association and tobacco giant Philip Marris are just a few of the companies and groups that will have officials attending a private reception and then din­ing Wednesday night with tlrn presumptive presid1mtial nomi­nee and GOP lawmakers. 
In all, 38 companies or individ­uals raised or donated at least a quarter million dollars for the Republican National Committee (RNC) extravaganza, and an additional 16 shelled out at least $100,000. according to a donor list obtained by The Associated Press. 
The previous record for a political party in a single night was $14 million last vear when Bush's father, the fm:mcr presi­dent, headlinml the same gala. 

"It's a real strong statement about Governor Bush and how he's exciting peoplr all over tlrn country," party chairman Jim Nicholson said. "People are will­ing not only to talk the talk but walk the walk." 
The Democratic National Committee is trying to muster a financial answer. It has sched­uled its own fund-raising bash next month that will trade tuxe­dos and gowns for hlue jeans and barbecue at a Washington arena. Organizers expect to raise at least $7 million and hope to exceed that figure. 
That same night, May 24, con­gressional Republicans expect tc raise $8 million from a fund­raising dinner of thrir own, to be divided betwerm the House and Senate GOP. 
Both dinners pale in compari­son to the RNC event being held at a National Guard Armory. 
Donors there will dine with Bush and Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott and Houso Speaker Dennis Hastert, leaders of the Republican-controlled Congress. 
The quarter-million-dollar club includes: 
. 
Wayne LaPierrc, exocutivc vice president of the National Rifle Association, which opposes gun control legislation now before Congress. 

. 
Cigarette maker Philip Morris, which opposes efforts to allow the Food and Drug Administration to regulate nico­


tine. 
. Carl Lindner, whose Chiquita bananas havi-) been at 

A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Force ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Cadet Chiapetta 
Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to make your decision, now. 
Contact Captain Klubeck -631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
the center of' a trade dispute data over long distance lines. between the Unitod Stat.cs and . AT&T, which is trying to thn European Union. block that request. 
. US West, which is senking Brenda Becker, a lobbyist and federal approval to transmit political action committm1 dirnc-

SAT U RD AY, APR I L 2 9 
1:00 P.M. AT SAINT MARY'S LAKE 
Get your registration packets from your Hall President . Registration i& due at the Captain's Meeting on Wednes,;..ay April 18th at the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune at 7:00 p.m. 
Come see the kickof£ concert: 
U~W5l~REV'S ~l~GEE 
frida11 Apnl28 4:30-7 :30p.m. South Quad 
Regatt-a Webeite: http://www.nd.edu/~fisher/regatta/ 
tor for the• Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, is a deputy chairman !'or the gala. Sim raised or contributrd at least $45,000. 


If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer 
classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $ l70 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of !he University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. And on-campus swdent housing is available. 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. Contact Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for the 2000 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
Session I -May I 7 to June 2 7 Session II -:June 28 to August 8 
*HOLY CROSS COLLEGE Notre Dame, Indiana Office of Admissions 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 239-8400 • Fax (219) 233-7427 e-mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu • hcc-nd.edu 
eHCC 2000 




page 11

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Congress reports $60 billion missile defense costs 
Associated Press 
\'Vi\SIIINGTON 

l!rccting a missilP c!Pfonse systPm to giV<' tlH' nation limit-

THE 

SUMMER SERVICE 
PR.01ECT 

University of Notre Oame 

• 
Three elective Theo Credits 

• 
Eight Weeks, $1700 Scholarship 

• 
Additional $1,181 in Americorps Award available 


CALL THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS WITH QUESTION AT 631-7867 
"Will and I" An Evening with Michael York 
A One Man Show based on a lifetime ofPerformances ofthe Works of William Shakespeare 
April 27th at 7:30pm in the Jordan Auditorium 
General Admission $20 Students $12 
Box Office (219) 631·8128 limited Tickets Available 
Appropriate attire required 
Sponsored by the Summer Shakespeare Program 
<id protection f'rom ballistic missiln attack would cost near• ly $60 billion through the year 2015. according to a congres­sional report rnleased Tw=isday. Tlw Congressional Budget 
csc 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Over 30 Sites Open! 

~ Buffalo, New York -(Local Student) e Columbus, Georgia -Small home for homeless men ~ Dallas, Tc.xas -Brady Center for Kids -(male) ., Delaw~. Sojourner's Place (live on site) e Dubuque, Jowa -Camp for kids with physical problems eFt Wayne, Indiana -Matthew 25/Clinic for low income e Ft Worth, Texas -Habitat for Hwnanity/kids eGrand Rapids, MI -Clinic for Migrant Workers (Spanish) eHa.nisburg, PA -Interfaith Family Shelter eHouston, Texas -Catholic Charities 0 Kansas City, Kansas -Catholic Worker House (male) 
Don Bosco Center. variety ~ Kokomo, Indiana.• Home for women (female) ~ Marion, Indiana • Family Services/Emergency Shelter 1' Poughkeepsie, NY • Good Counsel Home for pregnant teens 
.i, LaPorte, Indiana -Sharing Meadows/Dinbiliti,. camp for adul!S e Muskegon, MI-Every Women's Place/Young teen program e Nashville, TN -Oasis Center for troubled teens ~ Northc[ll Michigan • Fr. Fred Foundation/Emcigei,cy .scrviw ~ Jacksonville, Florida• L'Arche Home 1' Rochester, New Yorlc • Home/clinic for pregnant teens 1' Peoria, Illinois -{local) Guardian Angel Home (kids) ~ Springfield, Massachusetts· Food Bank ~ San Diego, California -Disabilities/Job Training ~ San Francisco, California -Andre House (male) ~ South Dakota • Small shelters/reservation camp ~ Norwalk, Connecticut -Transitional shelter ~ Vc:11.tura, California • Emergency Services 
Office said that if successfully engaged a national defense system would dcfond th(' entire country against several dozen missiles. 
It cautioned, however, that 
many believe that a country just developing long-range mis­siles could use simple counter­measures rendering a missile defense system impotent. 
The report. said Sen. Frank Lautenberg. D-N .J ., "confirms my fears that we am rushing into a decision on national mis­sile defense without knowing everything we should about the financial, technological and diplomatic implications." 
But Rep. Curt Wddon, ll-Pa., 
1 leading 
lroponent of 

"You can't put a price 
Annan on

.nissile defense. said lag on protecting Monday said a U.S. missilr.
there was American cities." 
defense sys­
"no way" it 
tem rould
would cost 

Curt Weldon lead to a new
$60 billion . 
arms race.

representative {R-Pa.)
He said that 

while "you can't put a price tag on protecting American cities," the CBO estimate was "totally out of line, out of synch with anything I'vP seen." 
The Clinton administration. pressured by the Republican­led Congress which says the country is dangerously vulner­ahle to missile attack from rogue nations. has conditional­ly agreed to a limited missile defonse system. 
The president is expected to make a decision this fall. after the Pentagon in June conducts another test of'the anti-missile system, on whether to go ahead with plans to have the system operating by a target date of 2005. 
Calcium is 1 thing college students lack. 
got milk? 

Department of German and Russian Summer Language Institute June 20 -August 2. 2000 
The Notre .Dame German and Russian Summer Languag6 rnsriLute offers an intensive sumn.ter program of courses and cultural enrictun.ent. Complete your language requirements by earning up to 9 credits in German. Reasonable tuition rates; recent ND graduates qualify for a 50% tuition reduction. 
GE101 Be1rinoins <iermun I -Wimmer 6/20-7/4 
(3 credits) 

Intensive introduction LO German for students with no or 
minimal background.  
GE 102  Becinnlog German II -Wimmer (3 credits) Continuation of GE 101.  7/S-7/19  
GE 103  Continuine German -Wimmer 7/20-8/2 (3 credits) Continuation or GE 102. (MTWHF 10:20 am to 12:30 pm.• tutorial at 1 :30 pm, Lab 3:00-4:00 pm)  
GESOO  German Graduate Reading ­Wil1iams 6/20-8/t (0 credits) A review fot" graduate students who wish to take the graduate reading examination in German. The final exa1nination of the course. if passed. fulfills the requirements of the graduate reading examination. No prerequisite. (MTWHF 11:30 am ­IZ:30 pm)  
For more informotlon p)case contact: Summet' School Director ­( :219) 631.-7282  

Beyond several testing l'ail­ures and the costs -the administration is seeking $1.9 billion in the 2001 budget -a national missile defense is strongly opposed by Russia and China. 
Russia says the system would violate the 1972 Anti-Ballistic ~issile Treaty and president Vladimir Putin has warned that deployment could jeopardizfl Hussian adhen'ncc to other arms redurtion trnatics. li.N. Secrctary­G1rncral Kofi 
i\ccording 
to tho non­
partisan CBO. building the f'irst phase of a national missile defense would cost $29.5 billion, $3.9 billion more than the administration has estimated. 
The first phase would include locating 100 interceptors in central i\laska. constructing a high-resolution X-band radar and upgrading several existing early-warning radars. 
The second phase. to be deployed by 2010 under cur­rent plans. would use satellites that could track not only pow­ered-flight missiles but also those gliding through space. The third phase would add 150 interceptors, some at a second site currently planned for Grand Forks, North Dakota. 



THE OBSERVER 
PO Rox Q. None Dome, IN 4655(, G.'4 South Dinini \ tall. Nom Dam,. IN 46556 
EoJToR m Ctt1Er Mike Connolly 

MM'AGJNG EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR 0PFR.\T!ONS MANAGER Tim LogJ11 Brian Kessler 
Nr.WS EDITOR: Anne Mme Mattingly V1EWl'OINT EDITOR: Lih Haughey SJ>ORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco S,UNT MARv', EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Liz Lang 
MVFRTIS!NG MANAGER: l'ar Peters Ao DESIGN M.\NAGER; Chis /hila SYSTEMS Al>MINJs·rRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB AOMlN!STRATOR: .Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GR.\PHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFF!C[ MANAGER/GENER.\.l Imo.......... 631-71\71 FAX....................................... ..................631-6927 ArWERTISING.....................................631 -6900/8840 
ohservcr@dorwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE......................................631-5313 NEWS........................................................ 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VlEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 ohserver.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu ......................................... 631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE .......................................... 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.... ........................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:!iobserver.ndedu for daily updates of campus 11ews. sports. features and opinion columns, JS well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

weekly smdent reviews
minute forecasts 

online features for spe­
advertise for policies 

cial campus coverage
and rares ofprinr ads 

abour The Observer
archives to search for 

co meer rhe edi rors and
articles published after 
staff
Augusr 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe srudems ofthe Universitv ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content. including adveniseme~ts, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possihle. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chiet~ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present rhe views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available w·aJI readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters rn rhe Editor must be signed and must include conrncr information 
Que.rtions regarding Ohser11er pdicies sho11ld br dirert­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Cmmvlly. 


Things are not always as they seem 
Can what seems like exploitation and degradation to one person not be that for another? I have often wondered what this world would be like if we all thought the same way. Lord knows our society would not be as interesting as it is if this were to happen. I am con­stantly reading about people engaged in contro­versial behaYior and activities that many interpret as degrading. 
I recently read an essay condemning the tradition of women dancing either on the side­lines or during halftime as part of football games. The author talked about how there was nothing admirable about a woman dressed in skimp) clothing being the focal point of lustful men everywhere in a stadium. 
This controversial topic was not new to me. I often find it interesting that people are so quick to jump on some­one else based on their own presump­tions about whatever it is the subject of their scrutiny is participating in. 
Take the Dallas Cowgirls for exam­ples, clad in blue and silver. Are they taking the "woman's movement" back a step? Certainly not! These are women who work-out constantly, monitor what they eat and endure a very sr-lec­tivl; tryout process. Hmmm. Sounds like the sport they cheer for. You can bet that if I had their talent and a body that looked that good, I'd be out there shak­ing my stuff too. 
Before you crilicize others f<Jr your own beliefs, you better make sure you understand exactly what it is you are criticizing. 


!low can I go on without mentioning pageants'? Consider the Miss America pageant. This contest does not simply showcase 51 pretty faces who parade around in bathing suits. What you see on the night of the telecast hardly sums up what these women endure through­out their week of competition. In addi­tion to the hundreds of dollars used for dresses, swimsuits, hair and make-up, these women are constantly on the go. Judges base their decisions not just on looks, but personality, grace, personal goals and whether or not this woman would be an accurate representation of the beauty within all American women. 
ff you notice, these pageants are no longer the "dog and pony" show they used to be in the SO's. I think it is appropriate that these contestants par­ticipate in evening gown and swimsuit compi;titions. Anyone who walks across a stage wi;aring only a swimsuit has some guts. 
Ilow much do you know about the marriage traditions of the Mormons? Now I admit, I know little about this religious faith and social customs. I do know that there arc sects of Mormons that still have multiple wives per hus­band. For many in this group, this act is a way of life. Is it right to criticize something that we do not understand? I have to remember that I am thinking with my Catholic, women can do any­thing, power to the people attitude. We do not have to completely understand why people do some of the things they do, but we must understand that people do things based on their own views and inti;rests. 
With the events surrounding Elian Gonzales this past weekend. I have heard so many people in the media crit­icize the entire country of Cuba. It is sad that this little boy is in the middle of an American/Cuban political war. Yes, this is all political. Everything we see on television revolves on America's hatred for Castro and how Cuba func­tions as a nation. Everyone is so critical of how life in Cuba is so horrible for 1weryonn who lives there. Not once have I heard from a Cuban who pm­si;nts the other side. 
J was amazed to sen on telcwision. a rally in Havana whom Fidel Castro made an appearance, he was greetnd with an incredible amount of applause. I remarked how apparently not every­one thought he was horrible. 
Now don't get me wrong. I do not condone some of the things he has done over the years with situations involving tlrn United States, however, I also know that Amnrica has trained nw to hatn this man. Tim media has trai1rnd mn to see Cuba as a country to bn afraid of. It is so easy to deem sonrnthing as bar­baric and wrong when we do not understand it. 
Ilow can we understand it if we am only presented with onn side of tlrn coin'? We have to realize that there is always another side. 
Listening is essential Questioning is vital. Everything is not always as it seems. Them is nothing wrong with having a personal opinion about issues. Effective argumentation only rnsults from adequate rnscarch if not Pxpnri­ence. 
Kimmi Martin is a senior al Saint Mary's. lier column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nothing in l(f'e is so exhilarating as to be shot at without result." 
Winston Churchill former British Prime Minister 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Wednesday, April 26, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
Selma: Reflections 
•
on an anniversary 
It was spring 1%5 and I was a left Sel.rna on March 21 with the pro­junior at the University of Minnesota. tection orthe Alabama National Snlma was about t.o occur. Guard, which had been Federalized by 
Wlmn I was a child, I lived in a very Prnside!'lt Lyndon Johnson. They Catholic. very while worl.d. All of the arrived without incident in girls I played with Montgomery on March 25 . .John and I worn Catholics Kathleen Maas watchnd, emotionally exhausted, and excnpt one, my wondered if we'd made the right deci­
Weigert

bPst l'riend, Janl"l. sion. Tlu)n\ was one Back on campus, our advisor chal­.l1!Wish boy in the! For a More lenged us: '"Okay, So you didn't go to nrighborhood, but Just and Selma; that's fine. But what are vou Im was sorl of flumane going to do about racism?" • prripheral to the World What were we going to do? We group of boys and dreamed up some ideas; rejected girls who did most; fiddled with others. We finally everything 101,wthcr. The only non­decided we needed to makl' a trip to a white l'acns I saw were in magazines northern city where the issues of race and on T.V. Whitn world: safe world, worn dramatically present. So we 
When I transfern•d out of my organiznd a bus trip for 40 to Chicago. Catholic white world lo attend the And it was there that I discovered University of Minnesota in the foll of something I nevP-r kmiw: racism was 1%4, I flntnrncl a 'foreign' world, one alive in me. that was !illnd with new pBople, new IL was a simple event, really: I didn'L bsucs, new everything. 1joined the see it coming. One of our Chicago Minnesota Student Association and got hosts asked if I would like to join him involved in th<! "Human Rclations" one cwening for a meeting of the Committee, tlrn committee devoted to "Amistad Society." Sounded good to improving relations betwrnm different me; had no clue what the Society did groups. I was co-chair of the HRC with -sounded like a "friendship" group. John. also a junior. The issue of race We drove over to a neat building, chat­pernrnatc•d much of what was going ting about the itinerary of our week's on, both in tlm larger society and at visit. Walked up the steps to the apart­the uniVPr5ity. WP had big dreams of ment. Someone greeted us warmly as making a dent in the racism that, as we entered and my host introduced we came to understand ever morn me Lo various people. clearly, formed thn structure of our I was in the room about 30 seconds lives. when I realized I was the only white 
And then it began to happen: Selma. person there. The first Selma-to-Montgomery march I panicked: "I have to get out of ended with state troopers and sheriff's here!" My heart raced. My head got p11ople forcing the 500 marchers back, dizzy. My mind became frantic as I using horses, tear gas, night sticks and tried to figure out how I could exit as bullwhips. Swres injured; 16 hospital­fast as I could. ized: "Bloody Sunday." But then, people kept coming over to 
The s,icoml march, with Martin meet me, asking me about why I was Luther King Jr. leading 1,500, was in Chicago and what I was learning, effectiVPly blocked by a court injunc­what I thought about the issues. tion. A compromise was worked out: Against my will, 1started to relax. The King would bring the marchers across conversations were wonderful, the the Edmund Pettus Bridge to the other people gracious. It \Vas terrific. sido and instead of moving on to So, I didn't go to Selma. I went to \ionlgomery land thereby risk a sec­Chicago instead. But I celebrate Selma ond attack). lhe marchers would stop. every year in spring time (and this They did; they knelt; they prayed. And year in particular, the 35th anniver­then they turned back as the state sary) because it was that event that troopers and sheriffs people watched. provided me with an opportunity to A peaceful protest. But that night, discover a part ofme I didn't know. lhrrni white ministers were attacked Because it was that event that helped and one, Hcv. James Heeb from me learn how deeply embedded Boston. was killed, drawing national racism was -and is. attention once again. 
;\ third march v.·as planned. Calls Kathleen Maas Weigert, Ph.D., is canrn to join it. John and I debated Associate Director for Academic going to Selma. \;\le must go. We can't Affairs and Research at the Center for go. Wc\'re afraid. We should go. lt Social Concerns. She is also a won't accomplish anything. We have Concurrent Associate Professor in to bPar witness. It's just a feel-good American Studies and a Joan B. Kroc t,·ip for pPoplr like us. Our parents Institute for International Peace didn't command or drmrnnd; they wor­Studies Fellow. Comments and discus­ried and prayed wn wouldn't go. I still sions are welcome at remember our phone call, when, worn ND. ndcntrsc. l@nd.edu. out anti still not surP, we decided we The 11iews expressed in this column would not go lo SrIma. That third are those ofthe author and nor neces­march drnw 3,000 participants who sarily those of71ze Observer. 
Seniorslll 
Do you have some final thoughts to 
share? Submit a letter to the editor 
for the commencement edition! 
Mark letters "senior week" and send 
them to: observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Vouchers provide better educational opportunities 
Sheila Bapat's Guest Column, "Will starting to demand what affluent parents Vnuchers End Public Schools" (April 20) take for granted: choice for themselves. was right about one thing: Our govern. and hope for their children. How can we ment-run schools are failing poor chil­justify saying "no"'? dren, and this failure is unar.ceptable. Third, school choice is entirely consis­But her partisan attacks on choice-based tent with a commitment to "public edu­reforms are seriously misguided. cation." We have a public obligation to 
First, sr.hool choice is not a "conserva­provide all our children with a decent tive" issue, it is a question of social jus­education. The children in Cleveland and tice. Nearly 50 years ago, in Brown v. Milwaukee who are permitted to escape Board of Education, the Supreme Court from failing schools to hope and opportu­promised equal educational opportunity nity in good ones are still receiving a to all children, regardless of race. We as "public education" -that is, an educa­a Nation have failed to make good on tion at public expense. They arc simply that promise. Many people of good will receiving it in schools that work. rather now beliPve, and the evidence tends t.o than in ones that do not. suggest, that sdiool choice and educa­for too long, an unattractive hnstility tional pluralism -not special-interest to religious schools on the part of courts, politics and bureaucracy -are our best and a reflexive attachment to govern­hope for achieving Brown's goals. ment on the part of some education 
Second, school choice in fact enjoys activists, have undermined the education substantial and increasing support of poor children. lt is time for a change, among those for whom Ms. Bapat pur­and time for a choice. ports to speak. Low-income parents know that their children are not being Richard Garnett well served by the present government Assistant Professor of Law monopoly in education. They are tired of Notre Dame Law School being told that their children must be April 25, 2000 held hostage in failing schools. They are 
ROTC teaches moral conduct of war 
Recent discussions have once again Father Baxter asks what happens if brought up the question of whether or orders are immoral. I respond by saying not there should be ROTC at this univer­that is the very reason we need ROTC at sity. Being in ROTC, I have been asked this school. We need to have people with how I could be in the military in morals who will give those orders light of my Christian beliefs. and have the will to disobey 
The answer is simple for unjust ones. me. I did not join the mili­Father Baxter also tary to get a free educa­asserts that professors tion, as Father Baxter with advanced asserts. Rather, I degrees should joined to be respon-replace the officers sible for peace 
and who 
teach ROTC keep not only the classes. To that I people ofmy say I have no country, but better example alsn the people of how to be a of the world good naval free. officer than 
In our soci­those same 
ety there people that 
exist many 

he is criticiz­injustices 
ing. All the that will go 
officers unchecked 
graduated without the 
from well­power of a 
respected just mili­
universities tary. 
and many Examples 
have range from 
advanced the ethnic 
degrees. cleansing of 
They provide recent history not only the to the factual llolocausl of knowledge I World War II. need, but also Can any moral the moral guid­person sit idly ance to be a by and let these Christian in the things happen? military. Are we not told to ROTC at Notre love our neighbor Dame is essential to and does that not ensure that the future make us responsible leaders of our military for their well being'? I will conduct war in ajusl decided to put myself in a manner with Christian val­position to do something ues guiding their dPcisions. about it. Now the last thing I ever want to do is go off to war. In fact. I John Dues hope that I never have to do my job, but 1 Freshman am prepared to do so if called upon in Dillon llall the future. April 25, 2000 


I got the beat 
ThPre is nothing worsP than fl. whiir kid ar.ting like he's hardcori•. I get so sick and tired of whitr boys try­ing to bt\ like Nubian Kings and white girls trying lo emulat£' the nature of "a sista" just to gt>t into a hroth­rr's drawers. For centuries, sincP the first African 


ancestors wrre brought here. whites have tried to imitate blacks in every way, shape., form. or fashion and I'm tirPd of it Thev watch what hlark folks do and tr)' and try again to makP. it into a trend. This isn't about racism. It is about irnagP. "Hey Whites' Hap is not our musir.." Just kidding. If you·n-1 true to yourself and represent the MUSIC from your 
hearl .. Then in essence, you're a real emr.ee. 
The hip-hop culture is real and honest. and anyone is free to learn ahout it, spr<'ad it. and add to it. hut if vou suck. then it will drop you likP poop out of a butt. And it doesn't takf' long lo figurn out who's real 
Scott Little 
just a little 

and who's fake. I would now like to take you on a short exploration of whites in rap: . . 
One thing that all vvhite rappers have Ill common 1s the one word thal looms in front of them like a gigantic roadblock. And that is the dreaded N-word. After they get through that though. every white rappe_r is unique. 
Hobert Van Winkle: Better known as Vanilla Ice ... What a joke. We all know that Vanilla Ice was a dis­grace tl; all people. not just white people. llis song "k<e Ice Babv" was one of the many that helped MTV make videos danceable. beat-heavy, light. fun, safe, and totallv devoid of content and innovation. When light­wciglit rappers, especially whiter-than-white Vanilla lee. started getting massive airplay and record sales, the rap comi1rnnity at large recognized tlw dangrr of inferior pop-rap arts outselling the quality rap acts. A turn to the mainstream would start a slide into the whitP,vashing of rap. It's happened before in popular music. In blues IClaptonl. in soul (Michael Bolton). in jazz [Kennv Gt. 
· JCP: ThP Insane Clown Posse. Essf'ntially, the group 
trnds to appeal morr to thr dwellers of trailer parks and suburban townhouses than tlw inner-city l'olk that 
they partially swipr their image from. The 'de9ic_:a~rr 
among Llwir fans often address Pach otlrnr as nm.1a {A 
blatantly rorny code word for niggaJ. . 
Ilouse of Pain and the Beastie Boys: Now both of thesP groups wcrP. labeled as "altrrnativP rap/rock" acts. and in tlw eyes of many rnsual whitr fans and critics. thr Beasties and Housr of Pain werpn't consid­err.d as being just "rappers" (read: Negro-imitators). llence, thev tendr.d to receivP an elevated status among that crossc;vcr publir.. As a result, "regular rapprrs" (read: l\icgroes and Latinos I weren't taken as artistical­lv srrionslv bv a lot of people. But !N's face it. everyone c",111 rPlatP ·to :.Jump Around." It's not lik1! they were rapping about hockey. 
l\.1arkv i\.fark and Eminrm: l\1arky Mark got his start with hi~ l'unh bunr.h. but moved on quickly to b1\come a hip-hop god. Just kidding. He moved on and became Dirk Diggler. 
Eminem is perhaps the only -while rapper that's been getting any attention on the majors in tlrn last fo~ir. vears and that seems rather odd given that: 1) White i·appers are universal around the world. 2) Whites make up probably half to two-thirds of the hip-hop con­sumer market. And 3) they've been accepted in other traditionally black art forms. notably _jazz (other than Kennv G} 
So. ·il' Erninem is dope (and Dr. Dre should bP. a good jucJg,~ -dwrk out "l>HE 2001.") Then morn power to ·him. and wrlconw to the hip-hop scrne. But if a home­boy gets a Calvin Klein underwea'.· e~dorsen_rnnt, (Mark Wahlbrrgl thPn you know someth111g sup with the way that white rapper:; get treated by the "outside" world. 
There a,rn other groups too. Beck dr.finitely. llis mots ar:tuallv stem a littln more into blues ii' you listnn Lo his first album. "One Foot in the Grave." 3rd Bass got a lit­tlr, resprrt from the rap community as well. So_me o_f the more sur.cessful crossover groups are Sublime. fhe Baro Naked Ladies. and Ani Difranco even though thoy arr never c·onsiderrd rappers. 
Of course, though, there a.re a number nl' white rap­pers that arr horrible. like White Dog. Most of the guys like Lhis arc angry because they aren't black. Be on the lookout for white girl rappers coming up in the near fu lur!' too. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the nulhor nnd nol necessarily those r~f The Ohserver. 

Poetry collection explores the lives of African-Americans 
artists whose works gavn risn
By LAURA KELLY 

to the llarlnm Henaissance 
Scene 'X'rirer 

and the Black Arts movement. !Vluch of the earlirr V!Hse 
"I know why the cagnd bird 
deals with slavrry and is sings. ah nw, 
strongly inf'luenc(1d by the Whnn his wing is bruisnd 
neoclassical British tradition. and his bosom sorf'. 
A slave for most of' his lil'e, When he hPats his bars and 
George Moses llorton quPs­he would be, !'me; 
tioned the position

It is not a carol of' joy or ·'The Vintag<'
and future of thr Poetry Reading
glee, 

slave in his po<'m Book of' Afri(·an But a prny!er that hP sPnds "On Liberty and "TheVintageBookol American l'ol'try"from his !wart's dlwp corn.·· 
SI av() r y": "Oh . African American Poetry" nxplorPs many -l'rom "Sympathy" by Paul 
thrm,,s outsid1·

11 eave n ! and is featuring Anthony Walton
Laurnnce Dunbar 

thr.re no relif'f' I tlw nxpnriPnn' of' 
. Hammes Bookstore
This side the silnnt slav<'rv. ThnrP an• 
poems. Langston llughes' "Frosting" roads: "Frr.ndom / ls just frosting/ On somebody r!se's / Cake -/ And so must be I Till we I LParn how to / Bake." Hughes and many of' his contemporaries were inl'lu­enced by the jazz and bluPs traditions, as S('Pn in thnir 
song-likP lyrics. 

The collection ot' vnrse pre­
grave / To . Thursdaysent<1d in "Thn Vintage Bc1ok• 
soothe the pain ­

. 7:30 p.m.
of African Amcriran Poetry: 
to quell tlw grinf /200 Years of Vision. Struggle, 
And anguish of a Pow!,r. Beauty, and Triumph 
slave?" from 50 Oulstand-ing Poets" 
One of' the Pditors' favorite explores Lhr experience-, of 
poets is clearly SterlingAmerir.an bl arks. Su bjPcts 
Brown. judging by the large range l'rom love and death to 
collection of his work. A twPn­slavrrv and racism. yet the 
tieth-cl,ntury visionary. Brown poetry·is tied together by the 
was still dealing with tlrn them!, exprr.ssrd by editors 
scars of slavery upon his p<'o-Anthony 
ple. In "StrongWalton and 
Men," Brown Michael 
; " " (( j 
; 71;,.. r,,.;.;,r loo4 t>J ~ \I writes, "Thnyllarper. "To brokn you like
UUCU &IUICUI 
;i,
be 'American· 

oxen, / They is to be in ,i ,onn ., scourged you. / constant They brand()d
i,m:t,.,,.efl.-...... -"'"¥, tz,,.,.,, &.,,_,.,f,
search of' 

you. / They
,,.,J /.•"""4"' .~""' §t. t~,,l'!/f.·Pw,
one's identity 

made your!\f'rir.an­
women bnrnd­A mer i can 
iirs, / They poets. l'orcrid swellnd yourbv the domi­
numbers with n~nt culture. 
bastards ... /which con­
They laugh t stantly you tho rnligion negates thnm. 
they dis­to question 
grac!~d." Yet, what it means 
tlrn collection or to be human, po!ltry is not 
American, and black, have kept rlosest in their writing to the definitive American qunst !'or identity." 
"The Vintage Book or African American Poetry" is chronologir.ally organized. with a concise biography and collection of' works from each of the 50 poets. The collection includes many lesser-known 
onn of angrr or reslrntment towards whitrs. but rather a gathering or attempts lo discover and understand the common African-American idontity after such a turbulnnt and opprnssivn past. 
This longing for a sense of belonging and a desirr, for freedom is expressed in many love poPms: "To bP in lovP / Is to tourh things with a lightPr hand" 
from Gwnndolvn Brooks' pcH'm of the samP r{anw. ThPr<' an' poems about naturP: "It should havP a woman's nanw., / something to tPll us how tlw grern skirt of' land/ has bound its hips" wrote Jay Wright in "The I.ab, in CPntral Park." Thern are even ponms about current eevrnts. l.ucilln Clifton's "4/30/92 !'or Hodnry King" is an angry c:ommPn­tary: "so I the body I of' onn black man / is rag and stonP / is mud / and blood I the body of' one / black man / contains no lifo / worth loving." 
This collPclion is so full and cliversn that anyo1w can id<'n­
tity with  at lnast onP  poem.  
There is  a  Notn~  Dame  con­ 
nection  as  well;  c1ditor  

Anthony Walton is a Notre Dame alumni. an award-win­ning writer and a profossor at Bowdoin Collegn in Maine. Walton is thn author of a memoir, "Mississippi: An Amnrican Journey," and the: rec:ipiPnt ol' tlw 1998 Whiting Writers' Award. Walton will read from "The Vintage Book of African American Poetry" at the llamrrn1s Bookston! on Thursday, at 7:30 p.111. Tho event is co-::;ponsored by tfw creative writing department and is frnc and open to the public. 



Wednesday, April 26, 2000 page 15 
IndiePlanet. com offers outlet for creativity 
';~'l 
Week of 4/24 

Monday 
Tuesday Wednesday 
Thursday 
-A/11/)0ll!J Wu/ton, Norw 0(1/ll(' (l/( lllllli,
-.\'otw Dll/ll<' G/<'(' C/11/1 conn•n of I J()()k /"('(l(ti/l(/, /--l()ll1/l1('S Nurre 0(11 )1(' 
-( I/ ><'I 1i1 1< J <1/ "Et rru< Ii<·<•;--; S< J/ l<J, 

sucr1•d 111usic, Busilicu. .'i p_,n, !-;1)1/1' ,\/tlSt'tllll 
,, I< !/lott;J ws I1u Dot 11 J f,illS<'!J." 

Bool,sron'. 7:.'H I p_m.
,'c() SC/ /( >( >L 

-"Tllr' Green 1\/1/1'" ill /OJ D<'lmrtu/u ut 10::H> p.m.-S:2 o<lmission -1'\<'()U<-;tiCufe ill LuFortw W, !) I 1.1n /() mi<lnirJI it 
~TV ~nun<~tl cucck -un cifort to depress TV rotin(Js nationcuide ond clrau1 attention to consumer souerei0nty I I 
Friday Saturday 
Sunday 

~1-'H'S('/ llrIii<)/ 1 , ,, "HUI JSl'i <11 )(/ Gn'ld, .. Wusl Iii )~JI()/ l Hull, 
-ND Bross WJ<i \Vu()(/l(lillrl EIJS('/l]/)/(' Sprill~J COIJC('r/,
-l·'l'('S('/l/(f/j()/J 11r·•1-1unsd (I/Jr/ (iretd." 
,::JO p.111. 

Burnt In1ilcti1J<J. :1 J>. m.
11·os/1irn1tu111-/<1/I. 7::UJ p.lll. 

-"TIW Gr<'<'ll ,\liJe" ill /()/ [){'/J(Jrl()/0 UI 8 p.m (11)(/ /f):.'11)
~"Tl lC' Cn'<'l l ,\ Iii<'" ill Ir I I l)('/ 1urto!o 
p.111.-S:2 u</111issir,n 
<it /·-j /UlL Cl/ 1(/ /( 1::10 />,Ill. 
-Fislwr Reuwtu w St. ,\!Urf('-i Lu/,1'. 1 Jun 
S:2 <IC /1 J1i.-;sin1 L 
-Cl1i/1 Coo/,;-o//' Cllld BJt11'umss 111usii ./<'Slit 1u/ 

-t '11 IJ)/ irq(c; ,\ le( ,<'< '. plCl!Jil I< J OJI 
<J!l i':urt/1 Quctd, ,'-i-11 1ur1. 
,'-;()(if/) (}ll{I(/, 4_:I0-7..'i() /J_/JL 

If tlw st('n1otyp<' of Notr<' Danw undPrgrads as r·onsPrvatin• and culWl'ntiunal is trun. most stu­dPnL..; might nPvPr lmvP thl' dPsin~ to clwrk out /ll(Lic-!'{anct.com, II ow 11V(\ r. WP all know tlrnt Lhosc s tr n•otypPs arpn't tnw: r(•rLainl\ has so111;1 stuclrnts v,ho arP itching to esutp(' the m,tinstn·am. It's for thosf' pPoplP, and many oth­ers. that 
lncliel'lanet.rom w,ts !TC\at11d. 
fncliel'lanel.com is a 'Nebsite thal promises in il'i 'manil'nsto· to givf' "arlisl'S and visitors real tools to makr themselves visib!P in a sPa of mainstn1,m1 blandnoss." It mak1\s no apologir1s f'or il'i anti­r on l'orm ist views. In ['act. it Prnbrarns tlwm. -Tlw WPbsik is tmabaslwdly ('Utting-<'dg<' in Parh or il'i 12 channels. ranging from art to "word/' Lo business. It promisf's lo oiler surfors an outlet for (TPativ1' <'xprr.ssion that the mainstrPam simply hasn·t discov­1~n•d wt. 
I'll i1dmit it: this ·manifesto' was morn than slightly frightPning to lllP. ronsidPring I practi(·ally drl'inP mainstrram. Unlikt' thr pPoplP lndie/>/a,wt.com SP!'ms to 1•xp1'1·t would visit tlwir silr. I don·l rnnsidPr mysl'lr an rxpnl on obscurP art. I don't Pdit my own humor magazi1w, and I dPli­nitt•ly don·t list1•n to Pl<'clrnnirn, LikP manv Notn• Danw stud<'nL'i. I'm mon• ·!ikPly to sing along with whatPvPr song is on th£' radio than to al'tually pursur little known bands on tlw road_ Call il laziiwss, n1ll it nmformitv: it's just how I am. and I susp1,;·t I'm rnit aloni' _ 
Taking this into rnnsidrration. 
you can SP!' why such a ,vPbsit1· might nrnk1~ me foe! somowhat thrnatnnt•d. What_ I wondered. c.1>uld lndir.Planet..com pussibly hav(' to olfor me? ThP. answp,r to that question was quittc surpris­ing, rm pli1asnd to say tbat whiln !ndie-l'lanet.com can rnrtainly attract thosr surfers who rr.ally do sePk out progressive culture, it's also ,t gre:tt sitr l'or those of us who an'. a bil "indie-challengcd" to gp,t our feet wet in the vast world of indie society. 



Thf' main homepage welcomes visitors with a variety of links. rhannr,ls and explanations. As soon as the site dnwnloads. its digital. progressive appearanr.c brcomes obvious. illdie­Planet.com has a sleek, futuristir. honrnpag<' that complenwnL,; its oullook. Mantras such as "The future is all in your mind" scroll acToss the wckomc b,1r. Each of the 12 channels is available in one r.orncr. and the highlights of these channel., appear with pho­tos and links bdow, Upon seeing the homepage for the first time. l'reshman Danny Linton said, "This site is peri'erl for the college student. It has everything you nerd. l'rom humor to real-life 0vnnts." lie addPd. "It's high Lech. vnt still is down to earth with nrnssage boards and chat 
rooms." 
ART 

Using the art channel as a take­off point. a surfer can see tlw d1aracteristic lavout IndiePlanet prdPrs. Each d1.annrl features a main articlP. usually frt1dancrd. ab-out the topi<· at hand, At press tinrn. tlw. fpaturPd storv on th<> art drnnnrl was a review of an art Pxhibit entitled "E!Pctric Earth." whid1 is currm1tly on display at thn Whitney l\lusnum of American Art. ImmP.diatt>ly. I got tlw sPnse that lncliePlanet.com is a fasl Lirket to obscurP culture. Tlw artid(' is typical of lndiPPlmwt's: briPI'. but intrigu­ing. and bursting with links that hopl' to satisfy a surfor's Pndlnss dPsirc\ for morP information. 
Of r:ourse, 1,ach channel offers far mort' than just a l'Patnre. lndi.el'lanPt lhnks the arl chan­nel's main storv with a sidebar of approximately, 10 other articles. Colu'mns. revi0ws and profiles provide additional art talk and otfor some notr.worthy thought­starters. One articlP. fhm, the art dmmwl that I found partkular\y interesting. entitled "Gesture, Pose. and the Sweater Vest." dis­russes the ludirrous poses that fashion ad~ offer the consumer, and furthPrs this thought with a discussion of several art exhibits that make a mockery of the mod­els' poses. 
MUSIC 

Divided into three categories: altPrnative rock, hip-hop and nlectronica. the music channel offers a surfor a diverse selection of reviews and features from which to choose. I figured I'd have the best luck 
with alternative rock, and sure enough, lndieplanet.com came through. There were reviews of bands like Oasis and The EELS that I was familiar with, but I also had thn chance to read about groups like Seelv, who the free-lanc"er .raved about. and The Amerir.an 
Flag (they're from Canada) Unfortunately. my lack of expansive 
musir knowledge rParnd its ugly head here when lndieplanet's feature writer said Seely was 
"rp,miniscent of Mv 13loodv Valentine. St!\reo!ab. land] Lush and the Cocteau 

I!!\ 1nd1e..Twins." Since I wasn't familiar with anv of thosr, bands. it ~vas hard for nm to judge 
\,,,PC ¦ neT 
the mcril-; of Seely, 

Moving on to hip-hop. the same situation arises. On onr, hand, thr. review of the "Next Fridav" stmndtra<:k. foaturing Ice Cube, Emincm and Kurupt catrrs to a Top 40 crowd, but from thern. the offPrings grow inr.reasingly obscure. 
IncliePlanet authors aren't afraid to speak their minds and ask mo re of a su rf'er. !\Jost reviews are punctuated with the freelanr.cr rnlating the work at hand to culture as a whole. Each artir.le also offers a link so read­ers can post their responses about various articles. The online community of surfers and visitors to lhe site is imperative to IndiePlanet ·s success, and the site dearly dPpends on this communi­ty's input. After all, this innova­tive sitA daims to rAject what the majority tells them is culture. Sans connections with its online neighborhood, lndiePlanet becomes one more Website pro­claiming its own brand of culturr. So. r.lenrly, outside contributions arc crucial to the continuation of the Website, 
lndiePlarzet_com also offers visi­tors the opportunity to establish free e-mail accounts and free homepages, in another attempt to keep everyomi conner.tPd_ 
Although there are probably hundreds of sites with similar goals and mindsPts as IndiePlanet, it's safe to say that fow of them could duplicate the unity that lndiePlanet establishes. A definite feeling of community and r.ohesiveness links the site's various branches, All or these dif­ferences make lndiePlanet. com a fun and appealing place to visit on the Web. Once you decide what you want Indieplanet to be for you, you can explore its net­work so it fulfills your cultural desires_ 

second hair, Lustig hit two 
jumpers to get. things started
Bookstore 

and give Franchise a 13-5 continued from page 28 lead. Franchise kept on rolling, using drives by Muempfer and
Voices kept the score close 

jumpers by Canna to take a
and tied it up at 20. .But their early game fouls took a toll. 

20-8 lead. Craig closed things out in style, catching a pass
"We got in foul trouble early." Murray said. ''They 

mid-air and banging it in off the backboard.
kept pounding it inside. In thn end. we didn't have any fouls 

"They were scrappy," Craig said. "They played hard. Weto give. They won it down low." 
had a little more sizl' than them."
Emling the game un two free Four of the guys on the
throws was a less than fitting Franchisf' squad played inter-

end to a tight tournament 
hall basket­
round. 
ball together
Palmer, who 

"We knew coming in it 
in Stanfordfinished his 

varsity basket­was going to take a Hall, and n a
ball eligibility miracle or an act ofGod C a n 
joined the
for Notre 

[for us to win]. " 
team out of Ke,rnan Hall. 
Dame this sea­
son. hopes lo The squadgo up against Grant Gholson 

converged
his

one of FreeBaller member 
teammates in the coming rounds. Fellow seniors Jimmy Dillon and Skylard Owens play for No. 1 K('yplay.com and No. 22 Sexual Frustration V. respectively. 
'Td definitely like to match up with those guys." Palmer said. "They know that." 
Fifth-ranked Franchise easi­ly advanced over No. 28 Furious D. 
Dan Reidy, Steve Craig, Kevin Muempfer, Dan Lustig and Matt Canna, although not a towering group of guys, pos­sessed a large height advan­tage over Furious D that helped their Franchise squad advance to the Sweet 16. 
Franchise spread the wealth around, getting baskets from every guy on the team. 
Craig, one of the tallest peo­ple on the court, grabbed rebounds and put them back for baskets twice in a row to put Franchise up 11-4. In the 

CLASSIFIEDS 
from a num­

ber of differ­ent Bookstore teams a vear ago. Craig played for o~e of the top-ranked teams in Primetimc. MPanwhile, Canna beat Reidy in the round of' 32 before bowing out in the Sweet 1G. 
This year, Canna's looking to go a little further. 
"I think our team runs prctly well." Canna said. "We have a couple good shooters. We need the weather to play in, though." 
S e c a n d -s e e d e d NDToday.com played its way past the FreeBallers 21-8 behind the performance of 
B.J. Kloska. 
"We've got five guys out here. Today I was just shoot­ing the ball well," Kloska said. "I think the big thing that we do well is play together. To be able to go out on the court and be cohesive is important." 
Kloska is on a mission to match his older brother. who played on a championship Bookstore tonm in 1996. 
"I always try to at kast keep up with him, al least to save face around the house," Kloska said. 
Kloska hit five of his team's l'irst s/>ven buckets, helping NOToday.com to a 7-3 lead. Then his teammates -Tim Mucthing, Todd Titus. Dave Mikolyzk and Mark Godish ­gut in on the action. 
The rrceBallors, comprised of Stephen Byrnes, John-Paul Kalchen, Eric Himlinger. Grant Gholson and Sage Brewer, couldn't compete with their opponent's size. 
"Our lack of size hurt us," Gholson said. "We knew com­ing in it was going to take a miracle or an act or God !for us to win!." 
They couldn't get either one, as Titus, Mikolvzk and Kloska dominated play in the second ha.If. 

NDToday.com has bPen practic:ing together for a cou­ple months, giving them a strong chemistry on the court. 
"We know each other's roles on the court," Mikolyzk said. "We're lrying to disrupt the other team on offense.·· 
Third-ranked Versatilitv had no trouble handing unr~nked Team 126 a tourney-ending loss 21-6. 
Versatility leapt to a 9-2 lead and didn't look back, scoring often with easy looks and by getting fast breaks. 
James Cochran, Chris Dillon, Hoss Hansen. Jason Childress and Joe Lillis stayed hot from the field throughout the game. 
"We're all good shooters, and we can work the ball around," Cochran said. 
Versatility hopes to make a run at this year's title. "It's anyone's game from now on," Cochran said. 

Cocobutter was among the teams shooting for a spot in the Sweet 16 in Bookstore Basketball. Today's games will tell which teams will remain and move on towards the championships. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.Ill. to 3 r-lll, at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-dar dassifieds is 3 p.m. Al dassifieds must he prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per diaracter per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm 
Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Mid Free Pick-Up & Delivery! Call 631-COPY We're open late so your order will be done on lime! 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: blue warmup jacket. left in Lafun. Please call Enc at x4606 
WANTED 
Caregiver needed 2000-01 acade­mic yr, Tues-Thurs, 7:45-5:45 for 2 young children. 631-7765. Transpo & ref. required. 
L'ARCHE HARBOR HOUSE in Jacksonville, Florida invites you to a year of service creating communi· ty with persons who are mentally disabled. Responsibilities include: assist in crea,ing a home; develop relation­ships with members; and assist in personal care and community liv­ing. Requirements include a desire to live with, learn from, and relate with mentally disabledadults. Benefits include stipend, room, board. and health insurance and 

formation in the spirituality and phi· losophy of L'Arche. 
To apply, contact Dottie Klein, L'Arche, 700 Arlington Rd .. Jacksonville, FL 32211; (904) 744-4435. 
Summer Server Needed. Flexible Hours, Great Pay Close to Campus K's Grill & Pub 277-2527 
Need child care in Granger home. 15 hr/wk. Summer. Call Katie 271­1935 
PROFESSOR SEEKS SUMMER NANNY FOR ENERGETIC 4-YR­OLD BOY. MUST LIKE HORSES AND HORSESHOWS. WEEKENDS. 
CALL PROF. MILLER AT 631-4133. STIPEND PLUS EXPENSES. 
You've got approximately 45 years of work at1ead of you. You may as well do something you love now. Be a Student Brand Manager representing Red Bull on campus next fail Throw parties, go to all the hot spots. build a great resume. E-mail Rob Koller at Rob.Koller@redbull-us.com. 
WANTED: SUMMER SUBLEASE grad student needs 1 or 2 bdrm, 1 bath ate non-smoke, Dan 4·3144 
PAID INTERNET INTERNSHIP: Lead campus promotions for online company 
1-888-420-9800 x319 or adam@moneyformail.com 
FOR RENT 
RENTAL HOUSE FOR 4-6 STU­DENTS WITH LARGE ROOMS. W &D. 291-2209. ASK FOR DAVE 
LARGE 6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 FULL BATHS & BASEMENT UTILITIES INC. $400/ROOM. 247-9808. 
3 bedroom duplex Appliances, W/D 1 mile from campus 273-8332 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed­room, $1000/month 2) 2-bedroom, $500/month We'll make almost any changes to the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR PRIVATE BATH. PRIVATE KITCHEN LAUNDRY, PHONE 5 MIN. N. OF CAMPUS. 272·0615 
WANTED· 6 subletters for the sum­mer. 1022 Madison St. $300/month negotiable. contact· Barb x1573 or Chene!! x2378 
Chicago Roommate Needed' 3 '99 ND grads in Chicago want a roommate unlll Sept. 1. 1 bedroom in big apt only 1 block from Wrigley 

Field. Call ASAP. Katie 773-348­7530. 
2 bedroom, 2 bath College Park apartment for lease during summer session. Call Erin at x4238 if interested. 
COLLEGE PARK APT. FOR RENT 
JUNE AND JULY. WILL PAY 
WATER BILL! 
W/D, CLEAN, GIRL RENTED. 28, ·28. CALL 243-2279. 
FOR SALE 
95 Red VW Cabrio, 5 speed. blk leather, 40k mi, excellent condition, $10,000/Best, must sell. 
call 243-8901 
Beautiful brass bed, queen slze. with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, stlll in plastic. $235 
Mazda 626LX '90. air, sunroof 4-dr, great cond., $3300 219-291-1927 
MOVING SALE www.nd.edu/~abailey/moving_sale. html 
1987 Brack Saab 9000 
In great shape. Need to sell! $2300 • negotiable. 
Call Stacey: 634-2511 
PERSONAL 
Need help with a project? 
Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING services are available at THE COPY SHOP La Fortune Student Center Call 631-COPY 
FULL COLOR Copying Printing Scanning 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Call 631-COPY 
silly 

Pedro strikes again 
Alright, ladies of 249, this whole column is emp1y: prepare for some classifieds. 
Chem Belles• succinate ill!! 
Mary and Andrea ­Welcome back. I hope you l1ad a wonderlul Easter. Come visit sometime!!! 
Go Redwings !1!! (for Mrs. Shanahan) 
N.G. Why was I the Qniy represen• tative of SMC at the big O tonight ­do you think you a re allowed to have another life? 
Murray. any more tools in that toolbox lately?? 
Pete and Lin • if you check the classifieds ­would you have to roll it up?? 

Whoever bailed on K.S. is in deep trouble because they should be fill­ing in these columns, not me. 
Go Tribe· 
Sorry, T.L., they may just have to beat Pedro. Okay, maybe not Pedro, but all the Sox other pitchers. 
What in the world is going to fill this space? 
Anybody got any ideas? 
It seems that no one wants to help with this desparate situation. 
Lots of love from Beltgirl to the Beltless wonder!!! 
Private Wheeler -drop and give me twenty (how's Hot Lips?) 
Benny -good luck with soflball!IJ Strike them all out. 
MShan· Have you managed without the Backer CD? Have you gotten thrown out of there lately?? 
Well, it is nearly 4 a.m. and class arrives at 9 a.m. The big o does wonders for sleeping patterns. 
Is it lime for bed yet? 
Now can I go to sleep? Pretty please?? 
Tigger, Piglet, Eeyore, we almost made it to the end! 

Wednesday, April 26, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
BIG EAST TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIP 
Taborga, Talarico form dangerous duo 
A ""in over Georgetown in the first 
By RACHEL BIREH 
round or the tournament and the win Spcm, Writer 
over Miami in thn championship match improved the pair's season record to COH,\L GABLES. Fla. 17-7. Who('V<'r rttm(i up with the pbrasr Their highest ranked win of the sea­
"lwo lwa.ds am bntl!H' than one." must son came against Illinois' ninth-ranked haVP hPard about tht> :rnth-rank<•d Irish Jeff Laski and Jamal Parker. and men's L!·nnis doubles duo or Javier among their 17 wins are eight vidories Taborga and Aaron Talarir.o, a tnam over ranked opponents against just one 
that has gainPd nationwide rnsprwt this loss sPason in rollngiaLP tennis. Taborga an<l Talarico both bring dif­
Tlw pairin1-(s piny in the Big Ea.st ferent strengths to the court. and they rhampionships over th1i wer.kPnd roin­come together to overcome the weak­forred tlw notion that they are a dou­nesses of one another. blr•s team that no onP. want.s to mess "They havn a lot of f1exibility," Bayliss 
wilh. Thr:y werP instrumental in helping said. "They have different personalities th•• Irish SC('.Urti thr. doubles pnint and have diffr.rent strengths and weak­against 1\1iami in tlH' championship nPsses. and they've worked out tremen­nliltch. giving Uw team ,L 1-0 lead going dously." into singli,s play. The duo forms a unique right-handed 
With tile' scorP tind 4-4 against thp and left-handed combination that gives 
Ilurrica1ws· -1-0th-rankPd Peter Hoffman them a great deal ol' versatility on the and Tomas Smid in the No. 1 doubles court. Taborga is the southpaw. while match. Taborga and Talarico were able Tularico plays right-handed, giving the Lo securn a service break and they hung team an opportunity to put together a on for the win. Even though the Irish more potent style of play. pair !'ell behind 0-40 in thn nnxt game, "You've got the lefty-righty combina­tlrn two WP.re able to for.us and not let tion. which mnans that you are facing a 
Miami gain a brnak to cvrm the score. different serve every game and that is 
"Aaron to1d nw WI' havP to make tlrnm always tough lO deal with," Bayliss said. play." Taborga said. "I served four first "When they are playing from a two­s<lrvcs in a row !after br,ing down 0-401 back position you have both forehands and .I usually don 'L do that. Mentally we in the middle. and there is a lot of wert' tough1-.r th,rn them. tmd that was strength there -we can topspin lob, we what mad(\ the diffPrPnr.e." can come at you with pace. and we can 
ft was unclear wlwther Taborga. suf­also dip the ball." l'Pring from a sore yVrist, was even going While Taborga has the knack to end a to play in the conference championship. tough volley exr.hange and put the ball but he was cleared to play and showed away, Talarico boasts quickness and no signs of rust from the lay-off. formidable return of serve, enabling the 
"lie didn't hit a ball until last two to complement each other in a pro­Ttwsday," Irish hr.ad r.oar.h Bob Bayliss ductive way. 
guy that just believes in himself in dou­rer.koned with. the two believe they
said. "It became a question of whether "Aaron has been a real rock in dou­bles. and his returns are unbelievably have room for improvement.
lw would be eflici1!nl enrrngh to play at bles," Bayliss said. "First of all he is 
good." "We aren't at the top or our game," a lcwl to contribute. We gambled that pretty gifted. lie is really quir.k and has 
Even though Taborga and Talarico Talarico said. "But we're getting there. lw rnuld and in fact it worked." great reactions at the net. and he's a have proven themselves a force to be I think we'11 get it back together." 


Men 
continued from page 28 
brct\Wd pitsl the llurricanes· Mark Arrowsmith and Joel Bt\rm,rn 8-J at No. 3 doublns. whil1~ 30th-ranked .Javier Taborga and Aaron Talarico toppr.d Miami's 40th-ranked Tomas Smid and PPtPr lloffman at No. I doubles 8-4 to clinch the doubles point. Thos<' victories gavn the Irish a quirk 1-0 lnad. 
Tabor~a and Talarko c:amo up with a crucial break of' serve with the score lied .~t 4-4. giving thl'm a :i-4 !Pad that th1w nPVPr rolinquishod. · 
"Javi(ir and Aaron worn pretty tight in the beginning and then tlmy were able to get one brcuk of servn and it was over after that." teammate Ryan Sarhire said. "I thought that those two guys showed a lot of poise and a lot of heart. and they basically fought harder than the othr.r team." 
After the excitement of tho doubles play had subsided, the Irish tonk the court in singles play noeding three wins to take homo tho championship trophy. S,tchirc brought his team closer to that goal with a 6-1. 6-2 victo• ry over the !lurricancs' Smid 6­
1, 6-2. 

Following Sachir.-·s one-sidPd win, tho momentum crept towards Miami and rcmainPd with thn Hurricanes until they took lwmc the vir.tory. Tlte Irish held leads in the No. 2 and 3 sin• glcs matches. but Miami refused to throw in the towel, rallying for wins in both spots. Daly was downed by the Hurricanes' Hoffman at No. 2 singles 1-6. 6­4, 6-2. aller leading by a set and two breaks. while Smith was defeated by Miami's Johan Lindquist 3-6, 7-5. 6-2 at No. 3 singles. 
"Casey started hitting short off his backhand and Lindquist was able to dictate play and take over the match. but I thought Casey fought awfully hard," Bayliss said. "And Matt played a little too safely, and played a little bit not to lose. Ile dictated for the first set and a half. and Hoffman dictated for the last set and a half. Unfortunately, that was the one that won the match." 
The Irish lost at the Nos. 4. 5, and 6 singles matches before Smith and Daly were defeated. The Hurricanes' Michael Lang topped Talarico 6-2, 6-2. at l\'o. 4, the Irish's Andrew Laflin was downed by Miami's Jose Lieberman 7-6 t7-4). 6-1. at No. 
5. while Trent Miller was defeat­ed by the Hurricanes' Berman 6­2, 6-4. at No. 6 singles. 
Before the tough loss in the championship match, the Irish captured convincing wins over Georgetown and St. John's in the earlier rounds of the tourna­ment. 
On tho first day of play the Irish wore set to face off against the meager Hoyas, who had defeated Villanova the previous day. The lopsided match-up was no secret to both teams, and the Irish just tried to play their game and stav focused. 
.., was not going to give a fiery pep talk against Georgetown." Bayliss said. "Our plan was to not play loose mental points. What I told them was to pretend it was 4-4 in the third set in the championship match. If you're winning easily and are not threatened it's easy to get into a mental cruise control. but we want to go at the highest level we can the entire time." 
Notre Dame cruised to a 4-0 vir.tory with doubles wins from Taborga and Talarico at No. 1 and Miller and Sachire at No. 2. while Sachire, Smith. and James Malhame contributed singles wins at Nos. 1, 3, and 6 respec­tively. The remaining singles matches were abandoned once the Irish had secured the victory. 
The next day's matchup against St. John's provided more competition for the Irish. but they still ran away with a 4-0 victory. 
"We played well." Miller said. "Their team was solid. It was definitely a step up from yester­day. [St. John's) came out strong. and that was kind of a wake-up call for us." 
Smith and Daly won at No. 3 doubles, while Sachire and Miller were also victorious at No. 2 doubles to clinch the doubles point for the Irish. Talarico, Laflin. and Miller chipped in sin­gles wins in their respective matches at Nos. 3. 4. and 5. 

After the easy wins over Georgetown and St. John's that set up a rematch with Miami in the final. the Irish were aware that the level of play was going to increase tremendously. 
"I think we definitely have to step it up a notch," Talarico said after the St. John's victory. "Everyone is going to have to be ready to grind. As long as every­one sticks to their game plan, we'll be in good shape." 
The Irish did take their game to a higher level in the battle against Miami. fighting for every point, but victory was just not meant to be. 
"I think we did leave it on the court today." Irish assistant coach Mike Morgan said. "We left our full effort on the court. we just came up a little short, but that's the way it goes." 

. -·-----­
BIG EAST TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIP 
Upperclassmen lead Irish at championship 
Katia Bogomolova, 4-2. The rnatr.hcs al No. 1 singl()S in 
By BRIAN KESSLER 

senior, however, rnfocused, like straight scls and was nanrnd the Assist.ult Sports Ediror 
sh0. has so many times in her championship's Most 
canier, and rallied to \\in the Outstanding Performer. 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. next 10 ganrns. "That's l11fl way she's bc!rn all 
Senior captain Kelly Zalinski Despite the amazing 6-4. 6-0 yr,ar," Louderback said. "She threw her water bottle against win, Zalinski kept it all in pcr­played so well and shn really the fence in disgust and walked spe-ctive. competed. Wh<'n she plays like hurriedly past her father with­'Tm happy with how I played that. shn':, hard Lo beat. She (>ut mutwring a word. and that I got the win at singles, struirnlnd a littln in llrn !'nil, but 
She and h£>r partner Lindsey but th<' t.f'am wins and losf's she's played really well this Green just dropped Lheir No. 2 together," Zalinski said. "It was spring. This wook was no oxcAp­doubles match to Miami, sealing disappointing not t.o win the lion." Notn~ Damt''s !'ate as runner-ups titlo." Dasso. however, would oasily in the Big East Championship. Za.linski always makes sure swap tho individual accolade for 
"It's disappointing to lose at her personal goals are ser.­a team tit]('. Big East since we all thought we ondary to the team's. "I would trade it in a second definitely would win," Zalinski Whal else would you expect for the loam championship," said. "Hut NCAA's an~ a lot big­l'rom tlrn senior leadPr. Dasso said. "I've never gotten an ger and we have a chance to go "Being the captain is a big award like that so I was happy, far there." responsibility.'' Zalinski said. but losing lllrn tillcl took the run 
Dcspitr. the doubles loss. it was ··But the job out or it." Zalinski who helped carry thP is a lot easi­Dasso, who had
'Tm happy with hnw I 

tPum during the rhumpionships er bl'cause just one victory
played and that I got the

and throughout the srason. t!veryonf: vn entering the cham­She had postPd a. school the team is win al sinqles, but the pionships, lfrnrnr.d reeord 117 singles victories dedi<'ated, a lot from lrnr pre­
team wins and loses 

entering the championships and focused and vious trips Lo
together."

added three wins more; over the willing to Miami. 
wrc1ckend. work toward Last Y!~,ir. she Zalinski's father. her biggest our goals. Kelly Zalinski balthid heat sllpporter. was there during the It's been exhaustion and a
senior captain

highs and lows of the weekend. really neat. tough crowd. only cheering on his daughter from I've never to sec her matches behind his video camera. been on a team like this." abandon1~d when the Irish 
"Ile·s my biggest fan," Zalinski Michelle Dasso is one of those clinrhed the victories. said. "He's there watching every team members that learned a lot "Playing in Miami is hard Lo point with his video camera and from Zalinski. do," Dasso said. ''I've really loud cheers. I love when he The junior All-American. who learned n lot from the p11st two watdrns. He pumps me up and is ranked 16th in the nation in years. It's hot and tlrn fans are the rest of the team." singles, has helped Zalinski with brutal. The pressure was on us 
Zalinski won all three matches the leadership role this season. since we brat them the week in straight sets and only lost According to Dasso. she learned before at home. Everyone just eight games. from the best. had an off day. I think on any 
She breezed through her quar­"This year I knew I would given day we would beat tlrnm. terfinal and semifinal matches, have to take on that role," Dasso It's disappointing, but I'm happy knocking off Rutgers' Carissa said. "The coaches talked to me that it happened at Big East and Sommerlad 6-1, 6-2 and making before the season, but it comes not at !':CAA's." quick work of Seton Hall's Kyli with being an upperclassmen. If the younger Irish players LaSalle 6-0. 6-1. There have been great leaders learn from their expericmces in 
In the finals, Zalinski was rat­before me and Kelly is a great Miami like Dasso and Zalinski tled after a disputed call at 1-1 captain. So you can't really ask have in the past, Notre Dame in the first set and she soon for more than that." will be a formidable opponent found herself trailing Miami's Dasso won all three of her next April. 

sure today. We played tight in spots No. 16 Dasso knocked off Alanna and they are too good to play tight like Broderir.k in straight sets, 6-1, 6-3.
Women 

that." "I knew what to expect since I played Junior Michelle Dasso and senior her the weP.k before," Dasso said. "But
continued from page 28 Kelly Zalinski took care of business at I was happy that I played so well con­Louderback said. "We usually rom­No. 1 and No. 3 singles. respectively, sidering it was so hot. But it doesn't pete really hard. but today our nerves 
but the rest of' the Irish singles strug­matter that I. won my match. Our team got to us. We didn't handle the pres­
gled. lost and that's all that matters. We win and lose as a team.•· 
Zalinski trailed 4-2 in the first set of' her match, but rallied to win the nr,xt 10 gamPs. She defeated Katia Bogomolova 6-4. 6-0. 
"ThP.re was a. call disputo at 1-1 and I let it get to me," Zalinski .said. "I was down 4-2, but then I settled down. I was a lot more patient and picked up 
Most Outstanding Performer 
Michelle Dasso 

Coach of the Year 
Jay Louderback 


my game." two doubles out there first sinre tlrny The bottom hall' of the Irish lineup, have barely lost all year. But we however, was sw<~pt. missed a lot of first serves and some Nina Vaughan, Lindsey Green and easy returns. You're not going to win if' Katie Kunha all lost in straight sets. you give away that many froP. points to 
Marcy Hora defeated Vaughan 6-2, a team like that on their home court." 6-0 at No. 4 singles. Green led 4-3 in Miami's No. 2 doubles team of' Eva the first set at No. !i, but Lauren Jimenez and Alanna Broderirk downed 
Scagliorn broke serve and nrwor Green and Zalinski 8-5 to nnd Notro 
looked back, beating Green 6-4. 6-4. Dame's title run. Eva Jimenez avenged her loss to The No. 1 and No. 3 douhles matches KL1nh,1 P-arlier this S()/lson with a (i-3, were abandoned. 
6-3 vict()ry al No. 6. "We played a good match but they Miami led ~-2 with No. 2 singhis still were more aggressive," Zalinski said. in the heat of battlr,. ''We beat them last. wPck. but today 
l\otrn Dame's Becky Varnum lust a they were all over the net and we wen) first sPt tiebreaker and was in the mid­bar,k on thn baseline." dle of the second set, when the offi­The Miami players stormed onto the cials decided to start the No. 2 doubles court and celebrated their sixth Big match. Men•dith Flornnce broke East title. 
Varnum's servo in the final game to "This is the first match of the entire seal the 7-6. 6-4 victorv. season whore we didn't handle the 
The Irish trailed 4-2 and needed to pressure," Zalinski said. ''Thr, pressure sweep the three doubles matches to was off them because we w0.re higher­pull out the victory. ranked and had beaten them tlir, wnek 
"I was conf1dent in our doubles, but I before. But they got revenge." was confidr,nt in our singlfls too," "We were all upset, but we'll bounce Louderback said. "We drilled them last back," Dasso said. "We've had u great
Senior captain Kelly Zalinski reaches for a ball in her No. 3 singles match against 
week, but today we didn't play ag!(res­season and we'll use this as motivation
Miami's Katia Bogomolova. Zalinski went undefeated during the weekend. 
sivo. I was happy we had our number for NCAA's." 

Wednesday, April 26, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Glavine leads Braves to shutout victory over Dodgers 

extended their winning streak Quilvio Veras drove in the lone
Associated Press 
to right in a row. beating thr run with a two-out single in the Los Angeles Dodgers 1-0 fifth. Brown, returning from theTnm (;lavinr pitchrd a threr­Tuesday night. 15-day disabled list. pitchedhitter to outducl Atlanta neme­Glavine (4-0) no-hit the well, but sulfored his first regu­sis Kevin Brown and the Braves Dodgers for 4 1-3 innings, and lar-season loss to the Hraves 

·n 
.

l .
u 
5th Annual 

Institute for Spiritual Leadership 
AUGUST 14-15, 2000 LAKESIDE, MICHIGAN 
Strengthen your understanding, skills and commitment as a spiritual leader. Workshops include: 
. 
promoting Christian service 

. 
praying together 

. 
facilitating dynamic Bible studies 

. 
leading retreats 


Open and free to all Saint Mary's students, faculty, achninistrators and staff. 
Come to an informational meeting April 27 at NOON in 158 Regina, or May 3 at 5:00 PM in the North Wedge Room, or call 284-5391 to register! 
-~­
Questions? Call Saint Mary's
SAINT Space is limited, so campus Ministry
MARY'S 
COLLEGE Register by May 12, 20001 at 254-5391 
NOTRE DAMB, IN 
since July 13. 1996. 

ft was Glavine's first shutout since Sept. 19, 1998, and it handed the Dodgers their sec ond straight 1-0 
loss. 

Adrian Beltre had the first hit against Glavine, a one-out single in the fifth. But Beltrr,, who also walked in the sec­ond, couldn't come through when Los Angeles put togeth­er its most serious threat. 
Shawn Green led off the seventh with a double and moved to third on a one-out single by Eric Karros. Beltre followed with a grounder to third baseman Chipper Jones. who started an inning-ending double play. 
The Dodgers have gone 21 straight innings without scor­ing. Glavine struck out seven, walked one and benefited from a great diving catch by center fielder Andruw Jones in thR ninth. 
Brown (1-1) was nearlv as dominating against ·the Braves, surrendering only five hits in seven innings. HR walked three and struck out four before he was lifted for a pinch-hitter. 
Glavine matched his 1998 start. when he began 4-0 en route to winning the second of his two Cy Young awards. A year ago, he was 1-3 with a 
5.19 ERA in April and wound up with his worst season since 1990. 
Atlanta scratched for its only run in the fifth. Walt Weiss walked with one out. moved to second on Glavine's sacrifice and scored when Veras lined a single to center. 
Expos 10, Rockies 4 

Lee Stevens hit a three-run homer and Michael Barrett had a two-run double to lead 
single for his first major league 
hit as Montreal scored three 
runs with two outs in the sixth. 
Stevens' fourth homer capped 
a !'our-run seventh as the Expos 
won for the sPventh time in 
their last nine games at Olympic 
Stadium. 
Trailing 4-3, Montreal ralli<~d 
for three two-out runs in the 
sixth, chasing Brian Bohanon 
(0-2) in the process. 
Giants 6, Marlins 4 
With much of the focus on a 
Cuban-American boycott, 
Armando Rios doubled in the 
11th inning to give the San 
Francisco Giants their fourth 
straight win. 
Doug Mirabelli, the only 
Giants catcher in uniform. 
snapped an 0-for-18 strnak with 
a one-out single off Dan Miceli 
(2-1) in the 11th. Ile moved to 
second on a wild pitch and 
scored on Hios' double. Bill 
Mueller added a sacrifice fly. 
Mark Gardner 12-1} pitched 
the final two innings for the win. 

The game had eight players sitting out as part of a work stoppage by Miami's Cuban­American community. They protested Elian Gonzalez's removal from the home of his relatives. 
Florida third baseman Mike Lowell, pitchers Alex Fernandez and Vladimir Nunez -all of Cuban descent -decided to sit out. Dominican teammates Antonio Alf'onseca, Jesus Sanchez and Danny Bautista joined them in a show of sup­port. 
Giants manager Dusty Baker advised right-hander Livan Hernandez and catcher Bobby Estalella not tr; r.ome to the ball­park as well, fearing for the safety of their family members who live in South Florida. 
The Giants did just fine with­

BIG EAST TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIP 
Sachire nruned chrunpionship's outstanding perfor01er 
By RACHEL BIBER Sports Wri,cr 
conAL GABLES. Fla. 
After running his opponent off the court in dominating fashion in the No. 1 singles match against the University of Miami in the final match of the Big East tennis championships, the day's work was hardly over for All-American Ryan Sarhir~. 
No. 10 Sachire quickly dispatched the Hurricanes' Tomas Smid 6-1. 6-2. with meticulously placed shots and a solid serve and volley game, and then used all of his remaining strength to try to rally his team to victory. When his fe,~t are not slmffling along the haseline. they are pacing between the courts of his fellow teammates cheering them on in thc;ir on­court battles. 
''I've been really proud of [SachireJ with what he's dune and the way he has led the team off the court." Irish assis­tant coach Mike Morgan said. "lle's just really raised Lhe bar as far as pulling in time and improving things that WPre his weaknesses. Ile always competes well and his skills have gone through the roof because of all the time he has put in." 
With singles wins over Georgetown's Nick Sklavounos and Miami's Smid, Sachirn secured his fourth 30-win sea­son and boosts an unprecedented 30-9 record. Sachire is the first Irish men's tennis player under 13th-year head coach Bob Bayliss to win at least 30 sin­gles matches in each year of his career at Notre Dame. 
After posting a perfect singles perfor­mance in the prnvious l3ig East champi­onships, Sachire rPmained undPfeated again in 2000. and also earned honors for his play by garnering the award for Most Outstanding Performer in the tour­nament for the second consecutive year. 
"Sachire had the performance or tlrn tournament." Rayliss saicf. "!!e's been a rock fur us all season." 
Along with amassing a distinguished singles record during tlw 2000 season. Sachire has teamed up with fellow senior Trent Miller to provide the Irish a solid and dependable '.'Jo. 2 doubles team. The duo went 2-0 in douhles play during the tournament by capturing vic­tory over Georgetown and St. John's, improving their season rncord to 16-8. 
Miller and Sachire have taken their seniority seriously, always pacing tlrn tram. 
"Trent and Ryan have both done a fan­tastic job leading by example,'' Morgan said. "They make sure cveryono knows what it takes to win." 
When the dust had settled after Miami had slipped away with the win in the championship match. the experienced Sachire gathered his team on the court to give some advice about what it takes to win. 
"I just basically told the team to remember this feeling and to not let it happen again in May lin the NCAA championships]." Sachire said. ··nemember it for three weeks, because that is how much time we havn before NCAA's. That is a lot of limn, and we can get a lot better, and we pretty much need to get a lot bettrr if we want to do as well as we think we can do." 
Sachire's four-year career record now stands at 138-42 in singles and he has come away with victory in 40 or his last 47 dual matches, at No. 1 singles. With numbers like those, Sachire's presence on and off the court will be sorely missod by his tPammates 
"He is as good as anyone in collPge tennis." Bayliss said earlier this season. "I le is team-oriented first and foremost, and we are not going to replar,e Byan next year -we know that." 


Senior All-American Ryan Sachire comes to the net in a match against Georgetown's Nick Sklavounos. 

Spo1~::ornd by 

THE STANOJP,,.G COMMITTEE ON GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 

Sexual Identity' and the Workplace 
Tr1ursday, April 27, 2000 
7:30 p.m. Hesburgh Ubrary Lounge 
Refreshments will be served 
Peter Hawkins 1s a noted Dante scholar. He is currently a profes­sor of Religicn 2wLiterature at Yale Oivirity School. A graduate of the Uni .ersity of Wisconsin (Madison), Hawkins received his Master of Divinity from Union Theological Seminary and his Ph.D. in E1·1glish from Yale University. Throug(1 the lens of his own experience, Professor Hawkins will discuss how issues suff'Junding me's sexual identity can affect the workplace. 
page 21

Wednesday, April 26, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Andersen Consulting welcomes the following University of Notre Dame graduates: 
Thomas Arruda  Stephanie Frigon  Kimberly Ricks  
John Buchmann  Andrew Herman  Stacie Santiago  
•  
Kyle Capshaw  Marni Krebs  Thomas G. Short  
Leonard Conapinski  Kelly LaMaina  Julie Shotzbarger  
Keith Cosbey  Sarah Lopienski  Nicolas Yovanoff  
Mark Deboy  Ryan Mariotti  Kristin Yudt  
Tobin Finwall  Zachary Perry  Heather Zolak  

We also welcome the following summer interns to our Chicago offices: 
Cathleen Brough Reginald McKnight Thomas Steinbach 
Andersen Consulting cong ratu Iates all Class of 2000 graduates from the University of Notre Dame. 

Andersen 
Visit our Web site at ac.com 
Consulting 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Perrella, O'Shaughnessy lead Irish in w-eekend play 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Spore~ Writer 

Wom11n's lacrossP tri-cap­tain Lael O'Shaughnossy's 100th career goal in Monday's 12-10 loss 
t 0 
Harvard put her solidly in 
l'ront of an attack corps, whirh has struggled 


at times O'Shaughnessy during the 2000 season. • 
That loss coupled with a 15­4 victory ovPr Columbia SaLurday leaves O'Shaughncssy and the Irish at 5-9 on the season. 
"Obviously it's a great mile­stone in IO'Shaughnessy's] r,arcer. head women;s lacrosse coach Tracy Coyne said. "She had a rar"eer day [on Monday]." 
The Irish led 10-8 halfway 

through  the  second  half  
against the  Crimson.  in  a  
match  that  saw  the  lead  

change hands several times. But they scored just one goal in the final 27 minutes. 
"We were evenly matr.hed with our opponent," Coyne said. "'v\'ith a couplP breaks there we would have been the virtor.6 
Harvard scored first. six minutes into the game. but 
three Irish players gave the Crimson a der.isive answer and bumped the Irish to a 3-1 lead four minutes later. 
Thf1 Crimson <'ame bark wHh three unanswered goals, making it !i-4 with 11 minutes to go in the half. 
O'Shaughnessy conner,ted to tie it onr.e again. After the Crimson s c O r e ct Harvard 12 
another two 
goals, the Notre Dame 10 Irish. unre­l en Ling, fought back Notre Dame 15 
once again Columbia 4 to tie the score at 7. 
"lO'Shaughnessy] was shoot­ing so well yesterday," Coyne said. "She was creating a lot of opportunities." 
()'Shaughnessy continur.d her aggressive play in the ser.­ond half. scoring twice in the first three minutes to give the Irish a 9-7 lead. 
The Crimson defense held firm for the next 10 minutes, holding the Irish scoreless despite two shots off the pipe. 
Harvard broke the scoring drought with 16 minutes left to play. which Loftus r,oun­tered to retain a one-goal lead for the Irish. 
Notre Dame was held score­less for tlrn remainder of the game while llarvard slowly closr,d tlrn gap and took tlrn lead for good. 
"We went into the half' want­
ing to win and held them scoreless for 14 minutes." Covne said, "We had a lot of go<Jd shots. You have to give (the Harvard defPnsej credit lfor stopping them.]" 
O'Shaughncsssy led the Irish with 4 goals, while Natalie Loftus and Alissa l\loser tallied two Par,h. and Angela Dixon and Danielle Slrnarcr also scored. 
"Harvard plays a similar style." Coyne said. "They have a strong midfield and are solid at both ends [of the> field.]" 
The game against Columbia was an 1rntircly different story. 
The Irish dominated the Lions. exploding for a I 0-0. which they rode to a 15-4 final. Eight Irish players scored in thP win. 
"We game out really sLrong against Columbia." Coyne said. "We executed very well." 
Kathryn Perrella. ,inuther tri-captain for thr> Irish. scored three consecutive goals in the first eight minutes of Saturday's matrh al'tnr Dixon, one of' Notre Dame's prolil'ic frnshmcn. converted a transi­tion goal 14 seconds after the initial draw. 
Loftus snuck two shots past Columbia's Gina Kline to build the Irish lead to 6-0. 
A tally from Tina Fcdarcyk and two from Irish tri-captain and drfonsernan Kathryn Lam cemented Notre Dame's victo­ry in the l'irst half'. 
· "We wnre .i ust able to put it 
together." Coyne said. "It's always nir.e to have that many people score." 
Perrella scored again to open the second half strong for Notre Dame. and a minute later sophomorfl attacbn Maureen Whitaker tallied for thP Irish to build a 12-point lead. at 13-1 . 
From there, the Irish cruised to a 15-4 final. 
Perrella lrd thP Iri.sh with 4 goals. wh iIt: Lo flus scored three. Lam and ShErnrnr tallied two, and Dixon, Fedarcyk, McCardr,ll, and Whitaker also scored. 
Notre Dame not only outshot the Lions but they also led 38­·1 9 in ground halls. 
Durkin finished with 9 saves in 51 minutes of' play. while freshman goalie Jr,n White saw hPr third action ol' thr, season, finishing off the victo­ry f'or Durkin making one. save and allowing two goals. 
Columbia finished the week­end at 5-8 on the season. los­ing to flarvard on Easter Sunday 15<-3 beforo the Irish faced the Crimson on Mondav. 
"WP. wern vPry proud of' tiic team this W(~ekrnd," CovnP said. "EVf1ryonc was com~it­ted to playing hard and stay­ing focused on thr. task at hand." 
Notre Dame's J"inal ganrn of the snason is at Hutgers Saturday. 

Student Activities is still LOOKING for students to fill positions for the 2000-2001 academic year Positions available 
24 Hour Lounge Monitor Building Set Up Crew 
Apply NOW at 315 LaFortune or at www.nd.edu/~sao 
2nd Annual Chili Cook-off and Bluegrasst~usic Festiva~ ~~~ Featuring: Saturday, April 29th The Galoots 8-1 lp.m. Straight from Kentucky, The Home of Bluegrass Music]on North Quad Free T-ShirtsLive Music! for first 150! .Free Chili! See ya thereFree Drinks! partner!FreeWatennelon Limited quantities offood and drink available Sponsored by: The Student Activitie Office, Notre Dame Food Services, and Coca-Cola  


Wednesday, April 26, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Runners, julllpers finish alllong leaders at Indy Relays 
By BRIAN BURKE 
Spores Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's trark and field teams had a change of plans over the weekend when the Ball State Invitational was cancelled. 
So the t<'am elerted to compete instead in Indianapolis at the lndy Relays, hosted by Butler University. 
The change in venue hard­ly bothered the Irish, howev­er. as both the men and women posted several first place finishes and improved upon season bests. 
Jamie Volkmer highlighted an especially successful meet by the Notre Dame women, as her pole vault of 11 feet 6 inches set a new school 
high jump, Tameisha King in the long jump, and Dore DeRartolo in the hammer throw. 
For the men, senior Tim Kober turned in a first place finish in the 800 meters, fin­ishing in 1:49.53. Marshaun West dominated the long.i u m p where his 

Get a Shaven. 6~at .2J>ay·.\nne; :n ll HU1]'KS& sttott,e:S Jspring-rea[d~t -~ .----~=------=-:-·~ ..,cVTV serves up Hot Jresh slices of "~eel" life and 1 underground comedy. ···~<-_'.·:_tr,=,:;~ THE SHAVEN GOAt'')IHUIE-.CQMPANY CVTV debuts these hilarious, twisted visions. ·th 5 HOTTIES on adcVTV journeve ~lttL, .SPR\NG BREAK DAYTIME ·,.:-t ~iOADIR\Pl HUNK! CVTV caught ~ Matt Cedeno Send Cffliour videos! & Victor Webster Stupid College Trick Parties from Sketches & Stand-up Comedy "Days of Our Lives" Day-In-a-Life Journeys Interviews of Campus Babes Collegel.ife -Full Onl For more info, e-mail: ~ submissions@campusvibe.com CAMPUSVIBE.COM  


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 
MARK YOUR CALENDAR! 
Why? Because you need a new car! 
~ 
If you are in the market for a 
great used vehicle, 
we have the answer for you! 
~ ENTERPRISE CAR SALE cS.~ 
~ MAY13 E­
JOYCE CENTER PARKING LOT 
For pre-approval, visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org or call loan-by-phone at 800/567-6328 

Independent of the University 


record. She "/felt good, I really did leap of 24­also placed first 8 1/2 was
want to win, but you 
in the triplo good for
can't win at every meet. " 
jump. The first place women also by almost swept the dis­Quill Redwine a fool. The tance events as t h i r d
Irish triple jumper
Patty Hice won the 1,500 nrnters with a time of 4 min­utes 27.66 seconds, fresh­man Muffy Schmidt won the 3,000 meters, and classmate Jennifer Handley placed first in th<' 5.000. A third fresh­man, Kymia Love, won her first outdoor race, running the 400 meters in 56.18 sec­onds. Meanwhile Liz Grow ran a season best in the 200 mPiers, posting a lime of 
24.18 seconds. 

"It was kinda chilly, but it was a good 200," Grow said. "It felt good, but I was really pleased with my 100 [meter race]." 
Grow plans on taking next week off to rest for the Big East Championships. 
Also earning first place fin­ishes for the women were Jennifer Engelhardt in the 
m e n s 
team fin­
ishing first 
was the 4x100 meter relay team with a time of 40.59 seconds. 

Among the other solid per­formances from the men was that of Quill Redwine. Redwine set the season bests in both the triple jump. jumping 47-5, and the high jump, with a mark of 6-6. 
"The weather wasn't that bad compared to what we've had." Redwine said. "I felt good, I really did want to win but you can't win at every meet. My goal for the triple (jump] is 50-52 [feet] somewhere in there, and for the high jump is to get seven feet officially. It's one thing to get it in practice, but [to get it] in a meet it's differ­ent, so I'm looking forward to that." 


Bookstore needs dream team 
Once again. the Bookstore Basketball firld is stradilv dwin­dling down to a Sweet 16. 
Hut No. 29 Shocker, led bv Matt . 
Doherty. was knocked 
out last week. 
The team played minus its Nonh <:arolina ronnection, the coach who was out recruit­ing for that other cam­pus basket­ball team. 
Despite this setbac,k, you have to figure that a ton of teams will try to acquire Coach D. as some sort of an unrestrir.ted free ag:cnt for next year's tournament. Appealing to his basketball roots, I'm going to ronstruf:t a hypo­Lhetir.al team of guys he has !'.it.her playHd with or coached over thr wars, a tf\am [ think he should try to assemble for next year. 
I'm going lo get thn easiest pick out of lhP way first and ilash back to the coach's playing days at North Carolina. While he played with an incredible group offuturf' NBA players during his four years at Chapel Hill, includ­ing former Los Angeles Lakers star James Worthy. the r.all has to go out to the greatest player to ever step on any floor, Michael Jordan. 
ThP biggest reason for picking Jordan? Forget the ten scoring titles. six NBA titles, five NBA MVPs, the 1982 NCAA title with Coach D, and countless other achievements. This guy playPd on grass. 


Have you ,wer seen the late 1980's production "Michael Jordan: Come Fly Wiih Me?" This video shows how \'LI learned the game by playing his older brother Larry on a full court ofgrass in his backvard. Grass is harder to figure out than the pavement at Stepan, and I think this expPrience uniquely qualifies him to master those uneven courts. 
Granted, Jordan played almost exclusively as a guard in college and the pros. but for Bookstore's purposes, it is pretty reasonable to say he r.oul<l handle Lhe duties of a small forward. Dohertv is a pretty big guy, so he rnn ptit himself at the four spot as Lhe power forward, completing a reunion ofTar Heel tr.ammates up front 
Next. ewrv good team needs a solid point gi.mrd to distribute tho ball and hit some big shots \\-hen i.t's rniedi>d. For this spot l'm going to Doherty's days of coach• ing at Kansas and one of his pupils. Paul Pierce, whose just completed his second season in the l\iBA. He might be more eom­fortable as a scoring guard. but I'm pretty sure he r,oul<l handle the transition to play on this elite team. 
Pierce was a first team All­American at KU after the 97-98 season and hasn't let up since reaching the :'-JBA. He averaged 
2.08 steals per game this year for the Boston Celtics. second best in the league. ln addition to great defense, this 98-99 NBA All-Rookie First-Team member and 20-point per game sr.orer would give Doherty's squad some much-needed offensive firepow­er. Come on, you can't let those Carolina guys take every shot. 
Now, l\1att's team !we'll call it "The Winners" for lack of a bet­t<'f namr) needs a guy in tht1 middle. Since he's Notre Dame's head r,oach now, it's only fitting he takrs a Domor hen~. · 
Although he plays for\\-ard in the Joyo~ Center, I think 6'9'' Hig East Player of the Y1mr and First Team All-American Troy Murphy would make a nice cen­ter. I mean, with my setup, Coach D. will be asking Jordan and Pierce to move around t.hP lloor, so the Irish sophomore should handle the opµosing­tPams' 6' 3" big men without ton many problems. 
Obviously, this team's already VA!)' solid, but still. missing another guard to fill out the five man roster. 
Jacque Vaughn, you say? Or maybe get Worthy or Rael' LaFrentz or Sam Perkins and moVP Jordan back to shooting guard? Not bad suggestions, but not my idea. 
No. I'm thinking me. Ynah, you heard mt~, so stop laughing. I averaged almost five points a game as a senior in high school, and I play the two spot. just ask anyonP who's blown by ... played me at the Bock. In fact, I wuld even move over to the point so Paul wouldn't have to worry about the dribbling. 
So there arc my suggestions. What do you think, Coach'? 
Oh, and Matt (can I call you Matt?), if you think that .Jordan guy might slow us down. I'm sure we can find someone else. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
SOFTBALL 

Notre Da01e softball topples Pittsburgh 
By RACHEL PROTZMAN 
Sports \X1ti tet 

The Notre Damp softball te,1m improved to 37-12 over­all and 8-~ in Big East play this weekend as it defeated Pittsburgh 7-:'> and 10-0. 
"I think as a team we played really 

Notre Dame 7 
WPII this W<'ek­

Pittsburgh 3
c n d," said junior Melanie Alkire. "I think 

we hit well as Notre Dame 10 a team with Pittsburgh O key hits when we needed thP-m. We wern ablf1 to string hits together and that helped." Pitcher Jennifer Sharron, who pitched a perfect game until Lhe sixth iuning, canrnd her 20th win this season and struck out 12. With an ovPrall 20-6 rPcon1 this season and a finish or 20-10 last vcar, Sharron is only the second Notre Dame pitcher with back-to-back 20-win seasons. Jennifor Kriech kicked off Notre Dame's first win with a single before sr.oring on a dou­ble down the lnft finld linP by Alkire. Lizzy Lr,mirn and Andria BledsoP both singled to drive in two more Irish runs. Pinch runnor H<\becca Eimen scorod in the third while Alkirn distracted Pittsburgh with a run-down. and Notre Dctme earned vet another run in the fourth o~ a pitching error. 
The Irish scored t.wo in t.hn sixth on doubles by Alkirn, Bledsoe and Jarrah Myers. The Panthers finally struck back with ono run in the bot­tom half ol' that inning and addrd two more in the sPv­enth. 
"I think we need to work on keeping up tlrn level of intrnsi­ty through all our gam1-1s," Alkire said. Th~1 Irish l<~arrwd thf1ir 19th shutout of Urn sna­son in game two. 
Pitcher Midrnlle Moshnl r.ol­10cted hf1r tnnth win whilr striking out six and allowing just two hits. 
After a scoreless first inning, Bledsoe singled in tlw snc<md Lo drive in a run before Kriech drove in a run when shr was hit by a pitch with tlw bas0s loaded. Fimr.n singlr-d Jown the Ir.ft !kid lin1\ to drivc in two while Alkire r.ndr.d thr. inning scoring with a throP­run hoiwirun. 
Myers tripled to start thr\ third before scoring on a sin­gle down lhe left field line bv Bledsoe. Kas Hoag also singled to drive in a run at the end of thn inning. 
Freshman Andrea Loman doubled in tho fourth before scoring thr last Irish run on a single by Lemire. 
Thr. Irish host lllinois­Chir.ago today in thr-ir last home games starting at 4 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
"Wr. want to go out and win and play hard," Alkire said, "We want to make surP WP play our game." 


TO ALL THE VOLUNTEERS WHO PARTICIPATED IN 
CIIRLSTJt,fAS IN" APRIL 
THANK YOU FOR YOUR DEDICATION AND HARD WORK!! 
YOU HAVE TRULY JVl:ADE A DIFFERENCE IN THE NORTHEAST NEIGHBORHOOD!! 
AND ESPECIALLY TO THE CHRISTIVIAS IN APRIL STEERING COIVllVlITTEE!! 
TIIAN"K YOU!I I II I I I I I I! 

Wednesday, April 26, 2000 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 

BASEBALL 
Irish sluggers move to second place in conference 
victory in the first game, tossing 
By NOAH AMSTADTER six sr,oreless innings along •.vith 
Sports Writer four strikeouts. Cavey's perfor­
mance was good enough to earn Lf'd by some Df the best pitch­him Co-Big East Pitcher of the ing 1md hitting in the conference. Week honors. thr Irish Designated hitter Ken Meyer IC'd the off<inst1 in gamC' one,
base b a 11 Notre Dame 5 
t e a m launching a three-run homer in s w c p t Georgetown 1 the second inning. Sophomore t h e i r 
Drew Duff tamed the IIova._-; in Eastrr gamr, two. allowing° one we ekc n cl Notre Dame 12 unrarned run to earn his second trip to Georgetown 1 win of the week. Power was the rlaim sole story of' this game. though. as possession the Irish smacked live balls over or second Notre Dame 11 the foncc. Besides the two shuL'i 
bv Staviskv. l'reshman srcond
place 111 Seton Hall 5 the Big baseman Kris Billmaier also hit East. a pair of homers for the Irish. The Irish Notre Dame 5 Sophomorr third bas0man Amlrevv Bushev udded a leadoff
werf' lf'd SetonHall1 
by fresh-homer in the fr;urth. man Brian 
The Trish dominated Seton Hall. winning both contnsts. In
Stavisky. NotreDame7 
who won game one. right hander Aaron Big East Western Michigan 11 ITeilman show<·d the toughness Player of that has made him a top pitch­the Week honors after hitting ing prospects in the wuntry. Ile 
.455. including two home nms in gave up four runs in five 
Notrr Danw's 12-1 virtorv over innings. Thf' damage might have Georgetown in the second. game been worse as the Pirates left of Saturdav·s doubleheader. live runners on base early in the 
In sweeping the Hoyas on game. The Irish went on to win Saturday. Notre Dame exhibited 11-5. both extraordinary power at the In the second game. freshman 
plate as well as impressive .l.P Gagne earned his sixth win prowess on the mound. Senior of the season. 5-1, allowing one Scott Cavey led the Irish to a 5-1 run in six innings. and making 

31ucky winners will be awarded this incredible stipend. Visit thelnternship Area at thepavement.com to register. Get inside tips from former interns, comparisons between internship programs at big and small companies, advice on financing unpaid intern­
ships  and  more.  For  details  hit  
thepavement.com  now,  and  make  
a run for the money.  


'lletit:COl11 
jobs money apartments hit the world running 
his earned run average 2.')3. the weekend trip into Tuesday 11-7 victory. Sophomore Matt Stanley had two hits. as did night's contest at W<\Stcrn Buchmaie.r took the loss l'or tlw seniors Matt Nussbaum and Jeff Mkhigan. The Broncos handed Irish. Percontc. the Irish their tenth loss of tlw Th11 Irish travel to Comstock 
Unfortunatr.ly, the Irish could sr:ason. as tbr.y took advantage of Park. Mich.. today to takP on the not bring the momentum from seven Notre Dame errors in the WolverinPs. 

Visit our 

Jam Central department. 
MEDIB'PLAY®
Guitars, amps, 

drvmsels, sheet music and more. 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
Cassettes available

MediaPlay.com•M 
on select titles. Sale ends May 6, 2000. Prices may vary online. 811140 2915 
Wednesday, April 26,2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 




Oh, like you've never gotten behind in your work. 
beam 1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS yourself look good, not on making
ACROSS 27 In a sad way 55 "Norma 
DAY: Carol Burnett, Koo Stark, others look bacf. 000
29 School basics, 56 Boy with a
Nickname for 
Bobby Rydell, Gary Wright, Roger VIRGO (AUG. 23-SEPT. 22): You
in a way blanket
14-Down Taylor will have to work hard to accomplish 7 His, in France 30 "Wishing Will 58 Peanuts, in a Happy Birthday: You'll work anything today. Rewards will be Make " manner of well with others this year, but you yours if you put your heart and soul
10 School of whales 
33 Chicken_ speaking will not tolerate opposition of any into the project you are involved in. 
13 Like a portion of 
kind. You will be focused and see Opportunities will surface. 00000
34 Michael of 60 Furthermore 
some people's things only one way. This may cause LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You
R.E.M. 61 List ender 
income some problems along the way if not may be getting a little tired of the 14 Plug, of a sort 37 Anatomical 62 Not blatant everyone agrees with your tactics. nagging and criticisms you have
holders 

63 One who might Follow your heart and your intuition been putting up with. Take a look
15 It may be 
38 "Entry of Christ be interested in and let those unwilling to pursue at yourself. If the complaints are
reached by 
Into Brussels" big bucks your vision go in their own direction justified, get busy making personal
tunnel 
artist peacefully. Your numbers: 14, 19, 20, changes. 00
64 bath
16 Cafeteria-goers 32, 36, 44 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You
40 Tumbled (therapeutic
17 Hectorer of Zeus ARIES (March 21-April 19): You shouldn't try to deal with officials or
41 Bor-r-r-r-ring treatment) 
may be in the mood for a good fight superiors early in the day. You may
18 Giant of old 
43 Laborer of old 65 Ran on today. Try hard to channel your ener­want to make residential changes or
19 Negative 
44 Subjects of a 66 What Marcie gy into more positive areas, such as look into property investments as the particle U.S. Air Force called 52-Down making positive changes to yourself day progresses, 0000 20 Charlie's little cover-up? or your surroundings. 00 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.
67 -cone 
sister TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Use 21): You will have to be careful that
45 Messenger _ 

68 Impatient 
your energy wisely. Take a trip that someone doesn't interfere with your
21 Game piece 46 Actress Claudia agreement, 
will bring you knowledge or get busy career goals. Keep your thoughts to
22 Stethoscope 48 Some trick-or-maybe 
on some of those ideas you've had yourself and concentrate on obtain­user treaters for small business ventures. Don't let ing your objectives. 000 23 _'acte 51 Command spot DOWN others hold you back. 00000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 2.2-Jan. 19): GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You Get to work early and praise will fol­
25 Test pilot Chuck 52 Dance step 1 Place 
must concentrate on your goals and low. You can make professional
2 32-Down's was 
not other people's problems. Take moves that will lead to higher wages a toy care of any health problem that aris­and more responsibility. 000
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
3 Place for a chest es, no matter how small. Consider AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
Puzzle by Jim Page

MOK E travelopportunities.000 You may be eager to disagree with
4 Stat start 
24 Microwave 47 "Yeah, right!" 54 They're pulled CANCER (June 21-July 22): your boss. Hold your tongue and
5 Bit of truth? 
uphill Don't let your mood swings get out think twice before you say some­
26 Dexterous 48 Alums

6 QB's gains of hand or you may find yourself iso­thing that may cost you your job. 7 Cartoonist 27 Ship office rs 49 Capital west of 57 Like some lated. Offer to help those who are not Patience will be the key. 000 Silverstein 28 Actress De Carlo Haiphong peacekeepers capable of doing things for them­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 8 At dawn 50 Protest
and others selves. Don't eat foods that disagree Don't take on unreasonable financial 59 New corp. hires with your stomach. 000 obligations. It is best to work on
30 Suffix akin to

9 Marathon 52 Peppermint _ 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 2.2): You may yourself and your own surround­
-esque

dancers, e.g. 53 Tree-lined walk 62 Plant, perhaps find yourself getting upset with col­ings. You must make yourself happy
31 Chinese truth 

10 Comment from leagues or your boss early in the day. before you can make others content. Charlie Brown 32 Big Beethoven Keep your cool and let it pass. You 0000 devotee Answers to any three clues in this puzzle should be more intent on making
11 Musical Shaw 
35 Mideast grp. are available by touch-tone phone:

12 Olympics length 
Birthday Baby: You have bright eyes, and your vision is certainly not con­
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
36 Chicago trains 

14 This puzzle's 
ventional. You are progressive, outgoing and inventive in all that you pursue.
39 It might give you Annual subscriptions are available for the
honoree You must be sure, howevei; that you are not chasing moonbeams that lead to 
a line best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 nowhereland.
20 Ms. magazine co-founder 42 Like a bare floor years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
i!12000 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 

City _______State ____ Zip______ 



Batting a thousand 
Freshman outfielder Brian Stavisky slugged his way to Big East player ofthe week honors and a successjid weekend tour.for the Irish 
PORTS 
page 28 
OBSERVER Wednesday, April 26, 2000 
BIG EAST TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIP 
Double Fault-er: Men, women fall in finals 
• Notre Dame men drop four singles matches, denied repeat 
By RACHEL BIBER 5porrs Writer 

CORAL GABLES. Fla. 
A battle of epic proportions was !'ought out in the heat of the final in th(' men·s tennis Big East champi­rmships in Cura! Gables. Fla. But the path to victory 1vas onlv to be 
Miami5
mapped·for the top-seeded and Notre Dame 2 21st-ranked \I i a m i llurriranes. who took out the 29th­ranked Irish in !wart-wrenching style. 
The Irish finished as runner-up in this yp,ar's tournament after routing 
GrorgPto,vn and St. John's on tlrn way to the drnmpionship match against the HurrkanPs. Notre Danrn rame dose to drrending its title. but fell just short with a 5-2 drfPat. 
"Our lPam playrd rPally hard today, and WP IPl't it all on thP rourt." Irish head rnad1 Bob Bavliss said. "(Miami! has been ranked ·in the top 25 all year. and they are just a little bit bet­ter th;rn us." 
The rhance to sec:ure a second straight Big East title lookP.d good after tlrn Irish put in top doublrs per­formances in order to secure the dou­bles point and capture and 1-0 lead against Miami. \fatt Daly and Casey 
see MEN/page 17 

• No. 2 Hurricanes avenge season loss to top-seeded Irish women 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assisr:inr Sporn Editor 
COH.t\L GABLES. Fla. 

Tim 13th-ranked NotrP Dame women's tennis LP.am !wad Pd to Miami. Fla.. last WPPkencl Pxpncting to bring homn its fourth Big fatsl title. 
Tlw Hurrirnnns. howPvnr. had dil'­fr.rent plans. 
Aft.er NotrP Miami 5 

Damn knrH'krd Notre Dame 2 olT Miami (i-3 al home last wenk. thP llurricanPs dPcidPd to return tho l'avor on thi1ir home rnurt. 
No. 51 Miami took advantage ol' the partisan crowd and hot tPmprraturns lo catch No. 13 NotrP Danw off guard. Thn I lurrira11Ps ralliPd to a :i-2 vir-to­ry in Sunday's linal at th<' NPil Schiff TPnnis Cent!'r. 
"We havnn·t played this bad .all year." head coach Jay Louderback said. "It's rnally disappointing that [our worst matchl had to comp at this tinw." 
Thn Ilurricanes look four of tlw six singlPs matdws and serurPd the titlP with a victorv at No. 2 doublPs. 
"Tim way ·we playPd. I'm not sur­prisnd lwn lost four singles matl'hPsl." 
Louderback said. "\Ve usuallv com­pete really hard. but today our ·nPrvPs got to us. We didn't hand!P tlrn prns­
see WOMEN/page 18 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXIX 
Bookstore goes all-male with Manual Steering's loss 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Editor 

The F-Bombs unleashed their stifling defense and knocked their opponent Manual Steering out of the tournament with a 21-9 victory that elimi­nated the last n1maining female in the Bookstore Bashtball tournament. 
Mo Mac.Donald. a freshman from Pangborn. gave meaning to the words co-ed tournament in Bookstore Basketball for as long as she could. but her efforts ['ell short Tuesday. 
The F-Bombs. with Dan Kirzeder. Doug Bartels. Sean McCarthy, Kevin o·Nr.ill and Andy Se.xton, have not yet given up 10 points in a tourna­ment game. 
"We got blown out of the water," Manual Steering's Tony Weaver said. "The round of :12 is mv demise." 

"\Ve like to get our offrnse from our defense:· F-Bombs' Sean McCarthv said. 
Hot shooting gave the No. 12 F-Hombs a solid lead thrnugh­out. 
"They didn't miss," Dahx Marrs or Manual Steering said. 
Trace llendrirk and Nick Berne! rounded out the Manual Steering squad. 
The ninth-seeded Dexy's Midnight Runners edged No. 24 Guided by Voices in a 22-20 victory won on ronsecu Live free throws by Mall DeDominicis and Todd Palmer. 
Guided by Voices. made up of James Murray, Nick Wilson. Tim Welsh. Jason Thompson and Rocco Piaccntino. took jumped ahead early but its quic:k fouls came back to haunt it. 
"Wr wern down 10-2 early," said Jim Moravnk or Dnxv's Midnight Hunnnrs. "()ur rebounding lrnlped us. and the officials put us on thr. line a lot." 
Dexy·s Midnight Hun,rnrs, with Palmer. DeDominicis. Moravek. John Lally and Steve Kovatis, went on a six to one run in the middle or the game, climbing from a 14-11 del1cit to take a 17-15 lead. Def)ominicis led the scoring for Dexy's Midnight Runners. pouring in three of six during his team's run. 
"We dug ourselves a deep hole," Palmer said. "We can't spot Le-ams I 0-2 leads and expect to win this thing. We're not a great shooting team. but we play pretty physical." 
Down the stretch. Guidnd by 
see BOOKSTORE/page 16 

Softball ~:!> Track and field 
Women's Lacrosse vs. Illinois-Chicago ac Drake Relays 
... at RutgersToday, 4 p.m. ~ ' Friday-Sawrday, TBA ,.'.?I Men's Golf 
SPORTS ;JJ,t 
Saturday, I:00 p.m.
• t
ATA ~~-al Big East Championships Basehall Blue and Gold Game Rowing · · ·· Saturday, all day vs. Michigan Saturday at Navy
GLANCE ~ 
Today, 7:30 p.m. 1:30 p.111. Saturday, all day 






