
Right-wing conspiracy? 
SMC Scandal 
The addition ofa Jar-right party to the 
Relles and Domers respond to the controrersy 


ne ay
Austrian parliament calls .for the presence of 
over the Saint Mary ·s studem body elections. 

600 riot police. 
FEBRUARY 9,
Viewpoint . page 9-11

WorldNation . page 5 
2000 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Sa;nt Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 79 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Koelsch quits as co01missioner in protest 
early Monday after a complaint ti.led by By SARAH RYKOWSKI Crissie Renner. Hcnner's complaint New, \'hirer claimed that proper voting procedures 
were not followed in the 1-1lection, 
Emily Koelsch resigned as the Board because lhe elections committee should of Govcrnanc.c women's commissioner have been consulted for the final deci­Tuesday after a WO('k-long controversy sion in the event of a tiP. surrounding student body µresident The Koelsch/Ilodartc ticket liled an Plertion proce-appeal on Monday afternoon, stating dure. stating that See Also that the Renner complaint was not filed she had "lost in a timelv manner and did not take the confidence and "Renner reacts to opinion of the student body into consid­respect" for sev-Elections Committee's eration. The appeals committee reject­
era! BOG mem­ed the appeal, stating that the decision

decision"
bers. by the elections committee was final. 
"I think this page 7 ·Much of the debate centered on the has been a really fact that the Election Committee, after difficult three reviewing Henner's complaint and woeks," Koelsch said, holding back Koelsch's subsequent appeal, chose to tears. "It has become apparent to me use the results of the Jan. 31 primary that my input is no longer necessary to election to determine the winners of the government at Saint '.Vlary's. I the election. and did not demand a believe in fostering fair competition revote. among women. I resign my position as Student body president Nancy women ·s issues coordinator and I wish Midden made it clear at the onset of thP student government the best." the discussion that the decision of the 
Koelsch and running mate Rachele appeals committee was final. Hodarte had been declared the winners "The decisions that have been made of the presidential election Friday are final," Midden said. "The elections evening. The revote, authorized by committee has made a fair, just and director of student activities Georgeanna Hosenbush, was nullified see BOG/page 6 


HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Alums back 
Wadsworth resignation 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Spom Editor 
nays before their Feb. 4 meeting in Palm Beach, Fla., members of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees received a letter from more than 50 Notre Dame alumni criticiz­ing the structure of the ath­letic department -specifi­cally the leadership of athlet­ic director Michael Wadsworth and executive vice president Father William Beauchamp. 
Three days after that meet­
ing. the University 
announced Wadsworth's res­
ignation and relinquished 
Beauchamp of all athletic 
responsibilities. 
While a University official 
said the timing of the letter 
and the restructuring of the 
athletic department was just 
see LETTER/page 8 



Ca01bodians reme01ber through story, art 
Survivor recalls life under the Pol Pot regime 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News. \X.'ritcr 
More than 20 years have passed sinre Sal Nern watched two of lwr children die. but she vividlv remembers what happened. · 
"'\1y head' I can't lift it up.' he yelled to me." Nem said. referring to her 7-year-old son, Siep. The boy, who was sick for only one day before he died. also lost his sight over the brief course of his bout with dysentery. 
Nem·s 4-year-old daughter. Sict. later died altrr a yearlong illnnss. DuP to lack of food and mrdicine in their native Cambodia, Nern could do nothing but watch her childreu die. 
l.ife in Cambodia was not al.ways so tragic for Nern and her husband Wuv. who came to the United Stat(•S in I 985. Wu~ now works in the North Dining Ila!!. · 
Originally rice farmers in rural Cambodia, the couple was married in 1967. heforn the group Nern calls "the Pol Pot people" took over Cambodia. Their first child. Sicp, was born in 1968. 
That year. Nem lirst saw planes on bombing missions in her nativ<> country. "A lot of bombs in Cambodia ... We had to sit in the ground. sometimes all day,'' said Nem. 
The U.S. backed the original Cambodian gov­ernment, which ruled before the violent. Kinner Houge regime took over in 1975. The li.S. began bombing raids to support the original Camobodian government. The bombing raids, 
see CAMBODWpage 1 



Photography exhibit documents terror 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Writer 
Holding a sleeping infant in her arms, the woman stared straight into the camera, with an almost resigned look on her face. 
The woman and the baby were executed soon after the picture was taken. 
The woman and her baby were two of the 14,200 people the Khmer Rouge regime forcibly brought to S-21, a high school turned secret extermination site. 
Seven of the 14,200 survived. 
Blows to the head killed the rest of the prisoners, whose bodies arc now lying in mass graves that the prisoners dug them­selves. Prior to execution, they were tor­tured until they confessed to their alleged crimes -usually espionage. 
Pol Pot led the Khmer Rouge regime, which violently ruled Cambodia from 1975 to 1979. The regime's goal was to create an agrarian utopia. 
Conservative estimates place the death toll from stn.rvation, malnutrition or disease aL more than l million -about 7 percent of Cambodia's population. Additionally. 200,000 people arC' believed to have been executed. Other estimates place the overall death toll at :rn perc,e:nt of the r:ountry's population. 
Before thfl regime killed someone at S-21, located in the city of Phnom Penh, the sol-
see EXHIBIT/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, February 9, 2000 


INSIDE COLUMN 


The rise of phallocentrism 
Iii. My narne is Mike, and I have a p1mis. That's right folks. I haw a penis. and I'm not afraid to sav it. 
But while most guys. inducting myself, will not shy away from admitting they havP a p0-nis. my own proclamation r.omes in light of several n11tural rrlcbrntions of the male tool of copulation. 
I point first to tht1 Paul Thomas Anderson film. "Magnolia," in which Tom Cruise's <'hararter Frank 
T.J. Mackey screams to a roomful of oppressed nrnn. "HPspect the r-k!" I.Pading a seminar on the n~vitaliza­tion of thP. dominant malP within American societv, Mackey perhaps stated Ju those three words what men everywhere have wanted to say fur years. 
In last month's Student Fi.Im Festival. six auditoriums worth of men and wurncn l'rom the local communitv witncss<'d what was described as the one film benl upon unrepressing the taboo that is the penis. IL was brutally effecLive, making H assume) everyone cringe at the suc­cessive exhibition of 24 penises. 
Indeed. the repression of the penis has ended. 
The next step toward universal submission to the penis rnuld be found in the literary sperial of Scholastic Magazine. Inside, one could find a very entertaining ode to the penis. But it wasn't just an ode to the penis. It was an ode to the wacky life the penis seems to live. without any input from its greater human component. It was an ode to the erection. and it rightfully placed the importance of the penis in the male's life high on the long list of]ife priorities. 
Finally'. last weekend marked the·cbming of the annual campus favorite. the Keenan Revue. In the show. there is alwavs the threat of' sexu­al innuendo that w(ll surely include euphemisms for the male organ so many guys know so well. Kod. llappy stick. Johnson. Wang. Schlong. Boner. And many more. 
So, my d,cmr friPnds. what is my point'? 
We must embrace the penis. in all its great­ness. We must understand the penis as more than a mPrP appendage given to one sex and not the other. \Ve must look at the penis as a work of God. We must not simply see the penis as a means of physical pleasure. We must trust that the penis will guide us through the new millennium. It will bring peace and happiness to all. 
To know the penis is to remember a long lost cousin. Well. that's not true, for the penis is perhaps, as the short story in Scholastic noted, man's dearest friend. 
So I now declare. for the first time and for all times, the ser.ond week of Pebruarv will be known as National Penis Appreciation \,veek. 
Remember this day. everyone. for it will live and grow in the hearts and minds of man and woman alike throughout history. 
Imagine. 50 years from now. when National Penis Appreciation Week is a yearly event. not just at Notre Dame, but around the world. Imagine the penis festivals held at campuses across America. Imagine the new American icon: the penis. No longer will we worship the dollar bill. No longer will we worship the televi­sion. We will worship the penis. in all its penile glory. 
The l'icws expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not neces1>arily those ofThe OfJseruer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
K.u<.: Steer Mike V:mega:; Sam Derheimer Graphics Kale N.1gcngast Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production Kerry SmHh 
Racheal Protzman Viewpoint Lab Tech Dllsrin Ferrell Liz Lang 
The Obscm:r (\JSl'S 5~~ 2-4000) i, puhlish«l Mo11d;rr ,hrm,~li frid;ry exlep1 during e:<,11n ;ind v.1c.nior1 periods. The Observer is :1 memher of rhe ~,.;-1.ueJ Press. All rrprod11rrion d~l1rs ,,re rcst:rvni, 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Art: "All Gallery  . Theatre: "Th<'  
Abstract Show:" oil paint- Mousetrap;" Everest­ 
ings, water colors and pas- Hohrcr line Arts Center,  
tels: 18 Artists t;allery,  Bethel College; 8 p.m.  
Chestertnn; 10 a.m.  -5  . Film: "Th11 Incas and  
p.m.  the Lost City of Marhu  
Pichu:" Fernwood Garden,  
Niles; 1 :30 p.rn.  

Cumpiled frum U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Amateur sports gambling bill sparks controversy 
UNIVEHSITY PAHK, Pa. i\ 1111w bill passing through CongrPss could ~1ffor.tivf'ly end gam­
bling on  all intflrcollegiate athletic  
events ­ at least from a legal stand­ 
point.  

But. chances are, those March Madness oftic11 pools will remain as popular as e\'er, especially on col­lege campuses like Pennsylvania State University. 
Senior Michael Wirick said he still plans to bet on Mardi Madness just as he has in the past. 
Wirick said lhere is no way the bill will completely eliminate gambling on amateur sports. 
"I don't think any kind of govern­ment act will stop anyone from gam­bling." Wirick said. Online gambling and bookies are easily accessible, he 
added. . The bill, introduced January 31 in 
Michigan's naked mile faces setback 
ANN AHBOH. Mich. 
April is a time of activity in Ann Arbor. The snow is gone, students finish winter semester and on the last day of class, hundreds of University of Michigan stu­dents streak across campus, wearing nothing but run­ning shoes and a smile. Although the Naked Mile isn't scheduled to take place until April 14, there am dis­cussions already taking place on how to control the event. The student tradition started in 1986 as a prank played by members of the crew team. A letter of concern sent to Michigan Attorney General Jennifer Granholm by a Livonia man has prompted questions about how law enforcement ofticials should deal with the upcoming run. In the past. the only purpose of police al the event has been to manage the crowd of spectators, which last year was estimated to be betwer,n 8.000 to 10,000 people. Somewhere b1itween 400 to 800 actually stripped down and participated in thr, run, which begins at the Hock and ends in Begents Plaza. "We are fully satisfied that local law ol'i1cials are taking ner.essary steps," Granholm's spokesman Chris DeWitt said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Aci:uWeather0 forecast for daytiml! conditions anU hi!?h temperatures
• 
/-~ 
H  L  
Wedne~day  ~  44  33  
Thursday  w ' ' \ ' '  47  34  
Friday)  q·:• ,·:· ::·  39  21  
·:·  •;·  
Saturday  q-~· .·;• ::· ·:· ·:·  29  17  
Sunday  36  24  

" 
8,Q,~C3Q.Q ·!) ~ d 
Showers T-storms Rain Flu·r~es S~o~~ fee Sunny Pt. C!audy Cloudy \Ira Ass-ociated Press GraptucsNef 
"I don't think any kind of 
government act will stop 
anyone from gambling." 
Michael Wirick PSU senior 
the senate by Patrick Leahy (1)­VNmont) and Sam Brownback (H­Kansas), proposed the elimination of' gambling throughout the United States on high school, collegiate and amateur sports, including the Olympics. 
Known as the lligh School and College Gambling Prohibition Act, the bill was introduced in part from the recommendation of the National Gambling Impact Study Commission, Leahy said in his statement on the Senate floor. 
Friday 
. 
Film: "Bringing Out the Dead;" Snitc Museum of i\rt; 7:30 p.rn. and 9:45 p.m. 

. 
Music: Concert featur­ing Los Huracanes Del Norte; Hedwig Memorial Center, South !lend; 7 p.rn. 


Candle starts fire at Southern Illinois 
CARBONDALE, Ill. 
Thf! smell of' smoke still lingers on the 12th floor of Southern Illinois University's Schneider Hall. Black soot stains the under part of a ledge outside room 1208's window, which is now boarded up with ply­wood. Step off the 12th floor elevator Monday after­noon and you would have br,en r,ncapsulated in a darker, smoke damaged floor. Around 1:30 a.m. Sunday a r.andle likely set Schneider Hall resident Shawnte Bennett's neighbor's room ablaze, tire offi­cials said. The women who live in 1208 were not in their room when the fire started. Though she just moved to SIUC this semester, Bennett, like many stu­dents in Schneider. lirst thought the alarm was fake. She had heard the stories. There were 81 mechanical malf'unctions on campus last semester. Police said an alarm was pulled 21 times when there was no f'irn. But when Bennett's room lilied with smoke, she knr.w it was real. She threw on her robe and scurried out­side. "Seeing the smoke and everything -it's trauma­tizing," Bennett said. "That's something nobody should go through." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb 9 
FRONTS:
40s 
...--.r-_._._ 
@2000 AccuWeather, tnc. COI.D WARM Prermire, ½; 
® © .. ClJEJDITJ r,:,:·~~ 
High Low Showen Rain T•BtOrms Flurrie.s Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
............ 
STATIONARY 
V,a ASSDi;.alltd Pren 
Allanta  64  44  Las Vegas  70  48  Portland  50  35  
Baltimore  52  35  Memphis  68  50  Seattle  48  38  
Boston  45  15  Milwaukee  44  31  St. Louis  63  49  
Chicago  49  33  New York  45  36  Tampa  67  49  
Houslon  74  58  Philadelphia  47  34  Wash DC  50  27  

The NCAA endorsed the two sen­tors in the introduction of this bill. 
"I bnlicve our legislation is needed to ensure the integrity of collrge sports across the country." Leahy said. "Sports betting puts student athlrtes in vulnerable positions and thrratens their integrity and the integrity of' college and Olympic sports." 
"We've taken a very rlear stancli on sports wagering on the college level -it's wrong," said Wally Henfro. NCA.A spokesman. 
If passed, the law would close a loopholr, that was created with the passage of' the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Ar.t of 1992, which outlawed betting on amateur ovents in all states except Nevada. Because of this loophole, anyono could travel to cities such as Las Vegas or Beno and still bet. 
Saturday 
. 
Social: Valentine Tea: Queen Anne Inn, South Bend; 1 p.rn. -4 p.m. 

. 
Dance: Hush and Listen: Traditional South African dance and music; UmblP­Center, Goshen College; 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. 


I•' 

Wednesday, February 9, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Dyson: Black history is 'crucial' 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Editor 
Bla<'kn1'ss. whill'ncss. black history and all tlw diffnrPnt shacJ/s of' ract>. in t\nwrica W('n1 llw topics of' an l'lll'rg'elic 80-minutc disc.ours<' Tuesdav hv a<·.r.l,Lirnnd ,Lulhor and m!u·­1.;ttor ),,,lil'ha1·l Ede Dvson. 
Dvson. who has bi\f'll hailed as it "strPf't-f'ightnr in a suit a 11 d tit' . " \\ ow<' d th<' la r g (' rrowd with his spPaking sty!<>. which ran the gamut l'rom rapid-tin· gangsta mp to i11tel­lp1•tual digrPssion!'-that l'ould put a philosophy professor to shanw. llut his m1•ssag1~ was consUtnl: H1rco is mu<'h mon• than a simpk black and white issun. 
"Ha<'P is so much morn f'orn­plPx than it uspd to b1•." 'he s,tid. "Harn is at thn !wart or th<\ /\nwri<:an projPrt." 
Dvson disf'usscd thf' widn nu{g(: or (\thniritif'S and or cxpNi<•nc,~s. that fall undPr thP moniknr of' "blaek." and tlw equally widP varirty of typns of "whitP." 0 Latino" and "Asian" that mak<' up Aurnrican soci11ty today. Ile cont('nd1d that ,\1111\rirans should learn to appreciate and accopt thesP varying racial idnntitirs. 
"We should not trv lo force Tigt\r Woods to bl' rithnr black or Thai. because he's both." · h1: said. 
Thl\fl' arl' many dif't'Prent varirtins or blacks and whites and Latinos. Dyson said. and conl'licts between dil'fcrent groups within and bPlween th,~ racrs arise from a variety of' misunderstandings. l lis lec­ture focused on blacks. and hn discussed th!' clash brtwf1P.n today's youth -"the hip-hop l{f'nrration" -and th1\ir par­ents. who lived through thP civil rights movement, and who Dyson r.ontended. too ol'ten accuse the entire younger generalization or matnria.lism, without listening. 
"There is some r,ritir.ism of lhat Imaterialism I within hip­hop. bul if you don't listen to it, if' you hate it. if' you criticize vour own children, vou won't see it." he said. "Listen to internal critique, because there's something important going on." 
Dyson also discussed the importance of an understand­ing of black history. both for blacks and for people of all races. saying that it is a cru­dal part of American history. 
''African-American studies is not just for Af'rir.an­Amerkans," he said. "The reality is that that this is important for all of us to 
• 


learn." 
The history of black people, and other minorities, in America is one which is essen­tial to students' understanding of this country's past and future in no small part because of the divisions among different ethnicities, he said. 
"Our history has always been about conflicting streams and strands," he said. 
Dyson is a professor at DePaul University in Chicago and an ordained Baptist min­ister. He has written three books on the subject of race. 
The talk was held in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. It was a part of the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs lecture series "Leadership in Diversity: Recognizing Our Role Models." 
I-


Mr. Joseph A. Morahan III 
Chairman, AONFinancial Services Group 
"In, up, and on top in a hurry: Fast tracking your career in corporate America" 

SMC students to attend conventions 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
NC'\\,·s Writer 
Two Saint Marv's students am in for the experience of a lifetime. 
This summer. Michelle Nagle and Heather O'Donnell will receive a r·ernarkable les­son in political science as they work first hand with current political leaders and staffers while attending Campaign 2000: The National Political Conven lions. 
"This is an incrf'dible oppor­tunity, to be ablo to partic­ipate in something not as a kid, or r:ollege student. but as a citizen of the United States," Nagle said. 
Campaign 2000 has been designed with the specific intention of allowing college students dirert ar,cess to this year's presidential campaign. Students will have the oppor­tunity to meet randidatcs, help manage campaigns, report news and work officials and delegates begin to arrive. 
The second week will focus on campaign issues and strategies. the keynote address. party platforms and selection of presidential and vice presidential nominees. Students will then be placed in fic-ldwork situations related to their primary interests, such as political committfle or can­didate, marketing/adverlising, communications, event plan­ning and advocacy groups. 
O'Donnell, a double major in political sdence and commu­nication, hopes to be able to work with the media. 
"I want to be a political reporter one day." said O'Donnell. 
Nagle, also a political sci­ence major. looks forward to the chance of working on a politir,al committee. 
"I would love to go to law school," she said. "Ideally, I would like to get into the realm of politics. There are several alumnae 
behind the from Saint
"/ was completely
scenes to put Mary's that
shocked when I found
campaigns are working together. out r was chosen to for the fed­
"This is our eral govern­
attend. This is one ofthe 
first year ment in
greatest opportunities.,, 
[participating Washington, in this pro­D.C .. and I gram]," said Heather O'Donnell would love Patrick to be a part
political science major
Pierce, pro­fessor of political science. "The pro­gram seemed to provide important and exciting experi­ences for our students." 
The program, which sends one student to each conven­tion, will last for two weeks. O'Donnell will be attending the Republican National Convention held in Philadelphia from July 23 to Aug. 4. while Nagle will be attending the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles from Aug. 6 to Aug. 
18. 
The program aims to help enable the young women to attend the conventions and is supported in part by academic dean Karen Ristau, along with the rest of the Board of Governance. 
"I was completely shocked when I found out I was chosen to attend." said O'Donnell. "This is one of the greatest opportunities." 
The first week of the pro­gram is mainly designed to allow students to learn the ropes and help set up for the convention the following week. The students will learn about the history of political campaigns and conventions, campaign finance and media coverage <1nd will participate in the excitement as public 
of that 
someday." 
For O'Donnell and Nagle, there is a significant amount of work to do even before they leave this summer. 
"They need to complete ade­quate course work in political science to be able to benefit from the experience. The 'facts' at a nominating con­vention do not speak for them­selves; you need to interpret or analyze them," said Pierce. "[O'Donnell and Nagle] have taken courses that will enable them to understand events at the conventions." 
Nagle knows this will have a great impact on her decisions in the future. 
"Obviously, from being involved with student govern­ment here at Saint Mary's, you can see this is my passion. This convention goes hand in hand with what I want in my future career," said Nagle. 
"Although learning about politics in the classroom is important," said Pierce, "I believe that a full understand­ing of politics comes when people take that knowledge and apply it to concrete politi­cal situations and processes. Our department has always encouraged students to become engaged in political life as part of their Saint Mary's education." 



page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 9, 2000 
diers tied the men together for the trip, which lasted thrne davs.

Cambodia 
When the trucks finally stopped, the soldiers pushed the men, still tied

continued from page 1 
together, out tho back of the truck. Like 

however. were illegal because the U.S. the other prisoners, Wuy and Nern had was fighting a war in Vfotnam, not little food and water throughout the Cambodia. ordeal. 
Although tile bombing WcLS a Although she believed she'd be killed, rrsponse to thr Kinner Houge's :\Jorn managed to remain strong. approach to the region where Nem and "Khmer Houge so scarod [bcr.ause Wuy farmed. Nern never actually saw the Vietnamese were coming!. they Khmer Houge soldiers until 1972. At wanted to kill evervonc." she said. first. lhe soldiers came in small groups, "Everybody cry. I not cry." alwavs drnssed in black uniforms and During this period of movement, Wuy carrying guns and backpacks. The sol­had to cul branches from treetops to diers. nwn or various ages, gathered build houses. According Lo his wil'e, he groups of lornI pnopl!~ to ask for food. saw so many dead bodies in his view 
Around 1974. the Khmer Houge look from the trne that he m>arlv fell down. Nem and Wuy lo a forced .labor com­rood shortages contin~ed to be a mune. problem. Chia suffered from dysentery, "They wanted you to work all day. all but he survivod .. night." Nem said. The Vietnamese defeated th!~ Khmer In 1975. tlw Khnrnr Houge gained Houge in I 9i9. and Nern. Wuy and complete control of Cambodia. their baby eventually made it back to Wanting to crnatc a utopian society their rir.e fa.rm. 
basr,d on agriculture, the rngimr, abol­Hearing rumors that the government ished all private property. Soldiers or neighboring Thailand was distribut­emptied the country's ing food. the family 
cities and sent thr hogan to make its way
"A lot ofpeople died on
residents lO work on to that co1.4ntry. farms. even though the ground. I'm still Tlrny first reached a 
lhe urban people had scared. They killed a lot refuge>' camp in 
no farming skills, Cambodia, al'ter facing
ofpeople."
At first, tht> labor­landmines and gunfire ers had sufficient during their three-day food. but hv 1975. Sal Nern walk. There. the fami­supplirs bpr•ame ly finally had enough
Cambodian survivor 
scarce. . to eat. It was at this point After about two or 
that Nern and Wuy suffered perhaps three months, tfrn family moved to a their worst tragedy, the loss of their ramp in Thailand. children. Because the American government 
However, their children were not the promised to accept a certain number of onlv ones to dii~. Starvation. disease refugees, Ncm and her family were 
and gunfire also claimed lives. eventually able to come to the U.S. in "A lot of people died on the ground. 1985. They spoke almost no English. I'm still scared," said Nern. demon­"When I l1ew in the plane and saw strating hrJw she had to jump over bod­Amerirn, I cry all day," Nern said. ies that covered the ground. "They explaining that she feared the family killed a lot ol' people." would not be able to make a living in 
She even saw pigs eating dead its new country. .humans, a sight that prevented her Steve Moriarty, r.urator of photogra­from eating pork again until she came phy at The Snite Museum, and his fam­
to the U.S. ily sponsored Nern and Wuy when they During his time as a forced laborer, rame to South Bend in 1985. Wuv was taken awav from his wife to The couple had two daughters afwr 
wo~k in other places for months at a arriving in South Bend, and Nern also time. Other people were taken away has a sister who lives in South Bend permanently for not working hard and works in South Dining Hall. 
enough. Nern still has farnilv in Cambodia to Nern workf'd in thr. labor camp until whom she sends money wlrnncvPr she the end of 1978. when the Vietnamese. 
can. Even a small amount of' American who had originally bar.ked the Khmer money is signil'icant to people in Rouge began fighting against the Cambodia, where the economy contin­regime. ues to struggle. Although Nern does not 
Trying to escape the approaching want to live in Cambodia again, sf1c invaders. the Khmer Rouge fled into would like to make the expensive trip the mountains. taking the laborers with to visit family there someday. 
them. Nem was then caring for her 2.­An exhibit currently at the Snite month-old son. Chia. Museum features photographs of' other The trek to rscape the Vietnamese victims of the Khmer Roug,~ regime. began in a large army truck. The sol-
Notre Dame Film. Television and Theatre presents 
,,,,1 

~'-;T 
Attors fro1n th.P liHHlon Stai(<\ 
All's Well That E11ds Well 
by William Shakespeare 
Sun1ay Matinee. Febwary 20 ,......... 2.30 pm Thursday February 24 .. .. .. .. ... 230 Pl'l Wednesday. February 23 .............. 7.30 pm F1iday February 25 ................... 730 pl'l Saturday. February 26 ................ 730 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 • Seniors $14 • All Students S12 Tickets available at LaFortuoP. Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 
Th~ re~dency a! Artori Imm •he London Stagr 1s sponsored in part by the H,nkeli Lcc1,·e Seri~s 
0-;'.:;;'.~ This actMtv ,s ",acre possiblt1n ,,Pl ov the Con:munitv foujda:1on oi Saint Joseoh County lhrough ltie Indiana A,:s II A;.:·-"'. ·:.',•:•~:~ Coir'll1ssmn al'ate agencv w·th funds 1mm tie lffl11aea Genl"ai Assemb'v and fee ~111cn~ fndrw1~1n1 to, 111e !1:s r.,,.,~ >V 
Each prisoner was assigned a num­bnr before execution; but numbers
Exhibit 
were reassigned each day, further 
complicating idfrntifir.ation of vic­
tims. diers photographed the prisoner as One person who visited the exhibit proof that he or she had been in Boston recognized a relativr, in a ar.rested. photo. 
Anrnrican photographers Chris People or all ages -from infants 
Hiley and Doug Niven. discovered the in their parnnts' arms to the elderly negatives lo those pictures in the -are shown in the portraits. 1990s when visiting The Tun! Sleng "They pullr.d in whole families so Museum of Genocide, l'ormerly the there wouldn't be anyone left for S-21 prison. Al'ter the Vietnamese vendetta revenge," said Steve gainod control of Cambodia in 1979, Moriarty. curator of photography at they co11verted S-21 into a museum Tho Snito. On special days. only to memorialize tlrn victims. women and childrnn were executed. 
Thanks to Riley and Niven, photos Manv of the victims did not know of 100 S-21 victims am currently what ·was happening when t.hny traveling to museums in the U.S. wcni photographed. Some wcrn The exhibit entitled "Facing Death: nvcn smiling in the pictures, while Portraits from Cambodia's Killlng others showed signs of severe beat­Fields," is on display al the Snite ings. 1'v1useum through Feb. 29. "Most of them wcrn faithful mem­
"Everyone here died," said Gina bers of the regime." Moriarty said. Costa, director of' marketing at Urn ''The party turned on them and Snit(), as she lookod ut tho faces accused them of being traitors." 
hanging on the wall. "It's pretty Moriarty said hn hopes tlrn exhibit gi·im." will help raise awareness among 
Then:i is ;1.lso a continuously-run­Americans of the genocide that ning video in the gallery describing o<:currcd in Cambodia. the discovery of the negatives as "Most or the stud11.nts don't know 
well as the history of the camp. the story," he said. "This is sonw­Quotes about the camp hang on tlrn thing Urny haven't learned in school. wall opposite the photos, It's too bad." 
'"l am lying hnre waili11g to die ... " As part of the exhibit, Cambodian b1,gins one quote from a prisoner. monks held a prayer service al thP 
Because photographs were sepa­museum last week in honor of the rated from other rncords, the identi­peopln who died at the hands of Pol th~s of the victims ar<' unknown. Pot's regime. 
continued from page 1 
Visit The Observer Online. http://obse:rver.nd.edu 
Are you planning on serving food at any ofyour JPW or club activities? 
Did you know that you must have at least 1 person in your group who has received food service certification in order to hold the event? 
Have you been trained in safe food handling procedures since Fall 1998? 
UST CIANCI FOR TRAINING BEFORE JPW!!! 
Wednesday, Feb. 9 
5:00 PM 
LaFortune Student Center Montgomery Theater 
Training begins at 5:00 pm sharp! Latecomers may not be admitted. 
FOOD WILL BE SERVED! 
Food Service Certification training is coordinated by the Student Activities 
Office, Catering By Design, and Risk Management and Safety. 


• j 


AFP Photo 
Viennese riot police march past the Austrian parliament building early Tuesday ahead of the first session of par­liament since Joerg Haider's far right Freedom Party joined the government last week. The extraordinary ses­sion was held amicf tight security for fear of demonstrations against the extreme right. 
Parliament debates reaction to Haider 

Wednesday, February 9, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Stolen Picassos recovered 
ZUlllCH, Switzerland 
Seven paintings by Pablo Picasso havr, been rr,covered more than five years after they W<'ro stolen. Swiss authoritins said Tuesday. Tlw paintings Wf'n: stolf'n by thieves who bur­rownd into thf' basf:ment of a Zurir,h art gall('ry in Oc:tobf'r 1994. Gallrry owner Max K. Bollag then nstimat1~d thP loss at $44 million, with two of tlw paintings acrnunting-for $40 million. Otlwr Pxp1,rts disputed the f'igure. Policn and prosecutors said in a statement that tlw Picassos had btwn rPcovernd with the hPlp ol' an unnanrnd intermediary. who was rcwardrd by bl'ing-allownd to keep two of' the paintings. PolirP did not claboratn. J\. Swiss man and two Italians wPn' jai!Pd in 1996 for tlw llwft. but tlw paintings were not recov­nrPd nt tlw tinw. Th<' stolnn paintings includ­Pd l'irasso's ··sl'atrd Woman." a gouachn on c.tnvas paint.Pd in 19():{, and "Christ of' Monlmartrp" a watPrc:olor paint<'d shortly al't('l'Ward. Tlw two picturPs had bPen stolen from tlw gall<'ry oncP bnf'orn. in 1991. 
Florida 'Choose Life' license plates halted 
WEST PALM BliACI I 
A judgP bltH"hd distribution or Florida's nPw '"Choos<' Lifr" lirPnS<' plates while slw d('cidns wlwthi>r t.h(lY amount to a politic:al slalPnwnt against abortion. Circuit Judg<-1 Lucy Clrnrnow Brown issur1d th!' ruling Monday after tlw N,Ltional Organization for WomPn INO\V) sund. NOW arguPd that the st.it<' imprnpi•rly approwd a "rnligious motto. \.\'hirh has l'rPqu<'ntly bflon used to harass. inlimidatP and at timns kill and maim those who S<'<'k to OXPrri!-iP tlwir rights. including lh<' right to d10ose abortion." Tho statn DP1rnrtmt\J1L ol' llighway Sal'oty & Motor VPhiclPs had plannc'd to 61\gin selling thr, plalPs in March for an <!Xlra $22. Thf! state has ord!\rt\d I 0.000 of thP spPcial plates, and tlwy arP ,tlr1\ady being made. Procef'ds from sal<' of thP platPs would go to groups that help prPgnant wonrnn who dc'ride to put their babies up for adoption. 
Asteroid may miss Earth 
LOS ANGEI.I•:S 
An ast!'roicl initially thought to bP on a possi­bl<' collision coursP with liarth in 2022 will miss tlw plan<'t. astrononwrs said today al'tnr rnvimv­ing 1ww data roll11ctcd by scirntisl-; around the world. Using tlw latest calculations, rns(1arr.hcrs dPl1'nnint'd that thn orbiting rock will com<~ no closPr than 3.:i million milPs in tlrn 1rnxt 50 y11ars. said Andrea Milani. a mathematics pro­fossor at Pisa Univnrsitv in llalv. Thn lmlf'-milr.­wic!P asll'roid. :woo BFl 9. is th~ fifth discovtmid in the last two \'Pars that resnardwrs f'nared ('IJUld hit 1:a,·u;_ J\. rf)('k that sizP roulcl do trenwndous damagP but would not rausn plan­etwidt' dnstruction. 
¦tkitdliMh@N:• 
AME\::

Dow 
885.34 + 1.26

JONES 
51.81 Nasdaq; 

4427.54 +!05.77 
NYSE 
629.04 +5.20 


S&P 500: Composite 1441. 75 Volume:
10,957.60 
+17.51 1,0.59,160,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPNiX IJCHH. \ CHANGE $ CHMQI PBICS 
O~LL COMPUTER DELI, -1.SO -0.~6SO 37.06 PA.GING NETWORK PAGE . 1, 71 +O. 0600 3. 56 MCI WOR.LOCOM IN WCOM +Ei .12 ,1,2. 9400 50. 94 CISCO SYS'l'DIS csco +O. so +0.624S 125.81 t,UCENT TECH rnc tu -4. 64 -1.. G;ZSO 54.00 BUY .COM me BlJYX . '93.23 +-12 .120 25.12 l..OCH H.\RJHS INC LOCH -2a.os -l, l500 'l.84 MICROSOFT CORP MSFT +) .11 -+).3150 109. 94 ORACLE CORP ORCl> -0. 63 -0.3775 59. 56 PHILIP MORRIS C MO -5.17 -1.0Ei25 19.50 
orld 
•I 

COMPILED FHOM THE OBSERVER WIHE SERVICES page 5 
AUSTRIA 

Associated Press 
VIENNA 
Proter.ted by 600 police, Austria's parliament opened a special session today to debate its international iso­lation following the entry of' .Joerg llaider's far-right party into the government. 
A vote of no-confidence in the new Cabinet headrd by Chanr,ellor Wolfgang Sr,huessel was possible. but r,onsidered likelv to fa.ii. 
The Soc:ial bemocratic Party, which has been in government for Lhe last 30 
RUSSIA 
Russians attack Chechen mountains 
years and is now in opposi­tion, has 65 seats. Along with the small Greens party, which called for today's ses­sion, the opposition holds only 79 seats -not enough lo prevail in the 183-seat parliament. 
Concern has centered on Haider's opposition to immi­gration and European inte­gration, as well as his past statements lauding the Nazi's "orderly employment policy." He also has praised former members of the Waffen SS, an elite German military unit that helped r.arry out Adolf Hitler's 
Holocaust against the .Jews and others. Haider has sinr,e apolo­gized for those comments. 
In an unprecedented move to isolate Vienna for its move to the right, the European Union froze bilat­eraI diplomatic relations with Austria, a mernbPr of the group. The political change in Austria has also alarmed Israel. which recalled its ambassador. 
Hoping to drive home their anger over a far-right party's inclusion in Austria's new government. some EU members said they planned 
forces had sealed off rebel routes leading to the moun­tains, but the claim could not be confirmed. 
"In the near future you will hear about the termina­tion of the military phase of the operation and the destruction of militant gangs in the foothills and the mountains," Kazantsev said in Khankala, on Grozny's eastern outskirts. 
The Russians' claims of progress have prompted disr.ussion of Chechnya's future. Presidential aide Sergei Yastrzhembsky. in Khankala on Tuesday, told Associated Press Television News: "According to one of to shun Vienna's represen­tative at an informal meet­ing of EU social affairs min­isters scheduled for Friday in Lisbon, Portugal. 
The rise of Haider's Freedom Party has also alarmed Austria's own arts community, which fears an increase in intolerance and curbs on freedom of expres­sion. 
The artistic director of the Salzburg Festival, Gerard Mortier, said Monday he will cancel his contract after this year's summer program to protest the Freedom Party's role in the government. 
the scenarios, Chechnya will be given a special autonomous status within the Russian Federation." 
Some Hussian officials have suggested offering Chechnya autonomy but not the independence that Cher.hens demand. 
The military has been try­ing to keep rebels who fled Groznv last week from reaching the south, where the military estimates about 7,000 guerrillas are based. Russia will likely have a tougher time ousting mili­tants from there because the mountainous terrain favors their hit-and-run tar,­tics. 
Associa1ed Press 
URUS-MAHTAN 
Hussian airr.raft focused their bombing runs on Chechnya's southern moun­tains Tuesday, while ground troops tried to seal off routes used bv rebels to move men and·supplies to southern strongholds. 
The Russians are looking south now that they daim to have seized the break­away republic's capital. Grozny. But the city's sky­line was punctuated by black plumes of smoke Tuesday from oil refineries hit by r,ontinued Russian shelling. 
Occ:asional artillery fire shook the muddy ground, but was much less intense than the steady pounding Grozny has seen for much of the past six months. 
Hussian helicopter gun­ships and Su-24 and Su-25 warplanes showered bombs on the Argun and Vedeno gorges leading through the southern mountains. The rebels use the gorges as supply routes and have bases along the snowy slopes. 
Explosions could be heard in the foothills. Top com­mander Col. Gen. Viktor Kazantsev said Russian 
I• 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 9, 2000 
BOG 
continued irom page 1 
impartial der.ision. They mentally placed thernsr.lvPs where thny should haw been Oil Wednesday 
night" 
Several students voiced ron­cern over the decision to com­binP the raw votes from Monday and Wed1rnsday's eler,tion. claim­ing it ignored 20 perc<rnt of the student body's votr.s. 
·'What 1'.in concerned about was that therr. were four ticket,;; [in thn initial primary c~ledion! that 20 µrirc<~nt of tlw votes Wf)nl into." Lcatlrnrman said. "Thr l\1issv Bittner/Mollv Banahan and ·Jill h:.oepke/Desire~ Hollis tickets obviousJv vott>d for Lhl~mselvcs. and their ~oice is not being heard." 
ThPsP two tirkets and thPir supporters had u chn.ncc to rcrvaluate their d10ices. 
"Berause I votnd for myself on Monday [Jan. 31 ]. and then voted for tirkel B on Wcdrn~sdav. in the final consideration. I oi1ly had one vote... Banahan said. "If Susie d1J\-vn the hall voti•d for tickPt A on both days, she had two votes." 
Midden and represcntaLives from the elections committee said they had made the best decision they could under the cirr.umstances. and that they did refer to the student government constitution. 
"In the Pvent of a tie you go witb the numbPr of rm,,· votes from the initial primary dec­tion." Midden said. "The only time a revote is to ocr.ur is if improper voting procedures were followed. such as ballot stulling." 
In Saint Mary's student ronsti­tution. there are no stipulations listed that detail proper proce­dure in the event of a tie vote. The only election procedures covered by the rnnstitution are the formation of tickets. cam­paigning policies, balloting and voting procedures. counting bal­
lots and revoting procedures. The constitution states that a revote is allowed only if' "improp­
r.r voting procndurns are fol­lowed," or if a candidate submits a petition with 200 signaturr.s of eligible voters within 48 hours of the election railing attention to such violations 
"Our decision was that Friday's election was null and void," alumna!' commissioner and Election Appeals Board member Erin Hall said. "We looked at the procedures and we took that bylaw and nullined Friday's eler­
tion." 
The committee did take into accounl that its decishm would sN a pn~cedcnl !'or future f\lec­lions. l\lidden said. Hef'erring to the constitution as an "ever­changing, flexible document." mt>mbers said that the election procedures are r.urrenlly under assessment by the board. 
Amendments to Saint !\lary's student goVPrnmc>nt constitution will be prepared and presented at next week's Boar·d of Governance meeting to provldi> delinile guidelines in thci case of futuri> ties in student governmelll oloctions. 
"At the next nrneting. they will have the amendments." interim elections commissioner Bridget Heffernan said. "The current BOG is revising and voting Ion amendments]." 
"I would like to suggest to BOG that when you are considering rewriting the bylaws, to maybe get people involved [who are out­sidr. BOG]." junior class treasur­er Alvson Leatherman said. "It is very important that [the constitu­tion I meets the needs of every­one. Maybe that would be a way for the students to [eel that their voice is being heard." 
"[The constitution] may be interpreted differently," said Georgeanna Rosenbush, student government advisor. "We go by what the Board says. lf you don't like it. you can change it." 
Several members of the stu­
dent body expressed disr.ontent 
that the issue could not be 
resolved immediately, stating 
THE 
that the decision the committee made would be felt for the fol­lowing year. 
l\fidden remained firm on the committee's dedsion, stating again that it was final and could not changf\ beeausP thP decision was rooted in the constitution's bvlaws. 
···our credibility stands in fol­lowing the constitulion." Midden 
1. 
Why do I want to quit? 

2. 
What method will I use? 

3. 
How do I stay tobacco free? 


If vou want to stop using tobacco products, help is available. 
For more information, please contact Alcohol and Drug Education 311 Lafortune phone 631-7970 e-mail ND.aldrug.1@nd.edu 
said. "[Changing! it would under­mine our credibility." 
"Everyone in this room has lost rredibilitv," said Student Academic Council representative Carolyn Kelley. 
MiddPn assert!'d that the Plec­lion controversy affirmed her conlidence in the abilities of the members of board of governance and her faith in the constitution. 
"Both tickets are highly quali­fied and exemplify the best of Saint Mary's," Midden said. "Events unfolded such that the constitution was our framework. We are all members of the same student body. There is no one to blame. It is imperative that we have faith in and support the decisions of the current student government." 



is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Managing Editor 

Applicants should have strong ediwrial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper produc­tion and experience with rhe Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged to apply. 
Any sophomoce °' junio, b~in~s majo, ~~!~~~n~!}':.!~~v~ff.~o~expe<ience is encouraged ro apply. Applicants 
should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Mike Connolly by 5 p. m., Thursday, February I0, 2000. For additional information about the position, contact Business Manager Dave Rogero at 631-5313, Managing Editors Shannon Ryan and Laura Petel!e at 631-4541 or Editor in ChiefMichelle Krupa at 631-4542. Applicants are also encouraged to stop by the office in South Dining Hall with any questions. 

.. 

Wednesday, February 9, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Renner reacts to Elections Committee's decision 

made by the proper committee. Also, she By COLLEEN McCARTHY stated that off-campus students were not As,o,iJt, Nl'w, Ediror 
provided an adequate place to vote. Henner stands behind her decision to 
i\t the Board ol' Govrrnanr,r, mer.ting tile the complaint. Tunsday night, Saint Mary's student "I just want people to know that what body prnsidcnt-Plect Crissie Hcnn(~r said th<' Elertions Commission and Election she had s1,wnd thoughts about her abili­/\ppeals Board decided was not my deci­ty to rnpr<•srnl thl' sion." said Henner. "I filed the complaint studrnt bodv. Sunday borause it was my right as a stu­
"Th(' ·mcP.ling dent to make my voire be heard. I voiced tonight was very a complaint that was what 1 believed in emotional." said my heart was the right thing to do and lfomrnr. "Initially. at what I was feeling. Llw :-;tart ol' the meet­"I won't compromise what is in my ing. while I was sit· heart." ting thorn looking at Henner's running mate and student all the fan,s of' mem­body vice president-elect, Michelle bP rs of the student Nagle, did not file the complaint with bodv who came to Renner and was surprised at the out­thr n1r'Pting and wen' t•!parly opposed to come. Mirlwlln and I. pnople WPl'I) making me "I never thought we would assume scrond-guess my ability lo r11prnsent the oflicn after the complaint was tiled," said studt'nl body. That is initially the Kagle. "It makes me doubt how much I thought that 1rnterecJ my mind." wanted this position when I hear how 
Board of Governance memb1ws lieldcd adamantly students are opposed to what questions rrgarding the Elections the Elections Commission and Election t\pp1mls Board's Tuesday morning deci­Appeals Board decided." sion to dl'dar<' the Hnnner/Nagle ticket Nagle said she will not step down as victorious in the race for student body student body vice president but added at prnsidnnt and vir,e prrsidcmt. Tuesday meeting that it was easy to 
Tht> board conrc•dcd the win to doubt whether she and Renner were Hnnunr/Naglc, b<·rause Lh,• tirkd earned doing the right thing by taking office. 43 pcrrnnt or Llw votl' in tlw Jan. 31 pri­"It's hard under what J felt was a per­murv c,lnction in which four tickets par­sonal attack on our ticket tonight not to ticip0HlPd. Thal P10.ction originally thrust questic,n whether this was the right il<'nn1•r/Nagll' and lht> tick1)! or l'.rnily thing to do." Nagle said. Koelsch and Hachele Hodarte into a run­Despite what she perceived as person­off lwld Wednesday. Feb. 2. which ended al attacks, Renner was pleased to see in a th,. members of the student body at the 
Tlw Plt'('.tion controvPrsy bP-gan after meeting. rnsu!Ls l'rom a second run-off election. "It's a great thing that people are so hnld Friday, was nullified by the passionate about Saint Mary's and stu­F.l('rtions Committee on Sunday night. dent government," she said. "It was evi­
Th" voto was void in responst' to a dent that many of those who were at the complaint filed by l!PnnPr stating that meeting were not our supporters and Fridav's !'lr'rtion was not valid because many of my supporters weren't here." the drrision Lo have the nlection was not Henner admits this is not the way she 
Junior -· Business Majors 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Internships available to work in 
ACCION Offices 
Accion is a micro-lending organization assisting people with no credit history to obtain loans to improve build their businesses. 
• 
10-12 week program during the summer, 

• 
$2,500.00 tuition scholarship for 12 weeks 

• 
with housing and food stipend 

• 
3 academic credits -(elective) Theo 360 (Business Approach to Social Change) 


Available in 6 cities: Albuquerque, Chicago, El Paso, New York City, San Antonio, San Diego 
.. Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns & COBA Undergraduate office ;c due February 18th 
Interviews in March at the Center for Social Concerns 
with a representative from ACCION --------------------------------------------~ Information Session February 9th 
Room 121, COBA 5:00 PM 
and Nagle had hoped to start their term be met with criticism," she said. "We in offke. will continue to be confident and enthu­
"It's unfortunate that we have to start siastic that we can achieve our goals. the vear this wav, but in a wav it is ben­But we can't do it alone and we are ask­eficfo.l," said Reimer. "There ~vere a lot ing for the support of the student body." of issues raised tonight that need to be Both Renner and Nagle said the con­addrflssed. Unfortunately, it had to be troversy that arose over the incident has under these circumstances." strengthened them personally. 
Koelsch's resignation at the meeting "Looking at the bigger picture, I think from her post as the Roard of there may be some students who will Governance women's issues commis­hold a grudge against me, but I have sioner convinced Kenner that some stu­come out of this a stronger person," said dents have lost trust in student govern­Renner. 'Tm confident that Michelle and ment. I can serve the student body. We may 
"I know Emily did what she thought not be the representatives you wanted, in her heart was what she had to do," but we will listen to you and we won't said Renner. "1 can tell that she has lost close the door on your opinion just faith and trust in the student govern­because you didn't vote for us." ment because of mistakes that have been Nagle agreed and realizes that she and made. She's such an asset to student Renner face an uphill battle in gaining government and I the confidence of the hope she doesn't student body.
"We may not be the
completely close all "l believe this is very her doors." representatives you wanted. much a challenge but I Renner and hope we can give the
but ... we won't close the door 
Nagle plan to work student body the confi­
on your opinion just because
to regain the trust dence that we are capa­of the student body you didn't vote for us. " ble of representing and won't let cir­them," said Nagle. "We cumstances sur­want to make this OK.
Crissie Renner
rounding the elec­It obviously makes me tion get in the way student body president-elect doubt if I should be rep­of accomplishing resenting the student their goals. body hearing all the ''I'm hoping that we can gain the confi­objections tonight to having us in office. dence of' the student body and that starts "I can't even describe how awful I feel by getting more women involved in stu­at this moment," Nagle continued, "but I dent government," said Renner. do believe that I can do this job and hope 
"I want to hold forums on campus so that Crissie and I can prove that to the we can talk to the student body and student body." address their concerns. There is a lot of Nagle acknowledged the negative anger right now on campus and we need impact the past days' decisions have had to deal with that." at Saint Mary's. 
Sustained confidence is what will help "I am sincerely sorry for all the hurt the ticket achieve goals, Renner said. that has come from this election and to 
"I took much of what was said tonight everyone who was involved," she said. "I personally but coming into the election, am sorry for all the disappointment this both Michelle and I knew that we could has caused for the student body." 

f.:w'°;·:~
~ ~ ~­
·. = 
American Heart -' 
Association.V 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 
,Choose
;ealthfuJ
Foods 
LEADERS 
Full-time college student or 
graduate. Starting salary, 
$32,000. Post offer mental and 
physical screening. 
Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for an intenriew 1-877-299-9397 www.MarineOfficer.com 

,.,.,.,...,,.,c.11.,,0
,M8l!if:l~ 
~HOTRliDAIR, IH 
1lJESDAV 
FEB.15 •7:30 P.M 
LITTLE THEATRE 
WHISTLE PIGS 
POPULAR LOCAL R & B, JAZZ, AND ROCI< BAND 
FOR TICKET INFOR/V\ATION CONTACT 184-~L ...6 
THE SAINTMARY'S BOX OFFICE ~..&. 
.. 
, ,., --­
, 


page 8 

department and Malloy was removed from most athletic
Letter 
department decisions. ..,t is our opinion that lhecontinued from page 1 
current management struc­
ture !of the athletic depart­a coincidence. at least one ment] docs not provide a trustee took s~~riously the 
sound basis for Notre Dame views expressed in the letter. 
... " the letter stated. "!The "It was an intelligent and 
athletic dirnctor'sl responsi­well-written IPtter." an anony­
bilities are so important to the mous nrnmbnr ol' the Board of 
well-being of' the UniversityTrustees told tlw Chicago Sun­
that his of'fkP needs to rnmain Ti mes. "It chastised tlrn 
outside the power base estab­University l'or the managP­lished by Urn vice president. ... ment of tlrn athlPtic depart­
IA]mend the organizationalment." 
chart so that tlrn athletir, For the authors of the letter. 
director reports directly to the however. tlw t>xtent of their 
president and has unf'cttercd influence 
discretion over the 
a n d Board of 
"Some individual, like authority
Truste(~S is 
regarding

whoever that anonymous
irrelevant. 
thr, selec­

The actions trustee was who shouldn't 
lion and taken by have opened his mouth to removal of 
University coaches."
{The Sun-Times}, seemed lo
president 
The let­

Father be impressed by [the letter),'' 
ters' writ-Edward 
ers of the Malloy are letter
Dennis Moore 
exactlv 
hope that

director of Public Relations
what thev desired. · 
"I think it would be presumptuous for us to sav that this letter brought about the Pv,~nts of :vtonday," said Michard Cash. a member of the Class of 1994 and one of thrPe principle authors of' the letti~r. "Tlwre ,.vas at least a group ol' trustPes. if not tlw wholP board, that was con­cerned with what was hap­prrning, and I think that what WP wrote resonated with them. But I think the wlwt>ls wt>rr in motion long bnfori~ this lrttnr <'V<'r was sPnt." 
In fact. Malloy convenPd an external review board of thP a thlctir de partmenl sho rlly al'ter the NCAA placed Notre Dame on probation as a result or the urlivities of football players and Kirn Dun bnr. Mallov t·onsider11d the com­mittee\ rPport and appointPd trustees to an ad hor commit­tee. which simultaneously considered thP committee's l'indings. 
While the letters· authors sent the letter to ead1 individ­ual trustee. it allegedly had no influence over the trustPos' decision, said Dennis Moor<'. director of Public Rrlations and Information. 
"Somr individual, like who­ever that anonymous trustee was who shouldn't hav11 opened his mouth to [the Sun­Ti mes J. seemed to he impressr.d by it." he said. "But it had absolutely nothing to do with any decision that was made." 
ThP ad.ions taken by the Board of Trustees and Malloy. however, wt~re \.\'hat the authors of' tlrn letter hoped to accomplish. By removing Bnauchamp from his rolr within thP athletic dPpart­mcnt. !\:!alloy auomplished thco main goal of' the letter. 
M all o v re str uct u re d tlw organization of' tho athletic department and made tlrn ath­letic dirPctor direr.Lly n~spon­sible lo him in the fut.urn. In the past. Bt1auchamp served as an ovnrsnrr ol' tlw athlntir 
t h i s 
restruc­

turing will end tlw public relations prob­lems they obsorved in rngards to the Kim Dunbar siLuation. the Jop Moore lawsuit and the selection of new football and baskrtball coaches. 
"It scirmnd to be a circus. at least l'rom a PH standpoint." Cash said Tuesday about the athlPtic department. 
This circus-like atmosplrnre led to an Prosion of confidcnc(: in thn leadership or Wadsworth and Beauchamp. 
"l go back to Fatlrnr HPsburgh," said Jon Vannie a member of' the Class of' 1')75 ,rnd another principle author of' th!' letter. "Back then there was a gc1wral conlidenr.r. that the right decisions wcrn being made and that the right 1wo­p]e were being put into the positions or power to make decisions in regards to thr running of thn University. We saw that flipping and l'lipping badly. W(:'rc not supportc1rs or the powers that were given Lo Father Beauchamp and Mike Wadsworth." 
This eroding confidence and pPrr:PivPd lack of prop(:r dr,ci­sions disserved thousands of Irish fans and student-ath­letes, arcording to Andrew Cruss. 
"It was unfair to football players to be at Notre Dame 
The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, February 9, 2000 
during this time." said the '94 graduatP and third author of 
Kennedy nephew
the letter. "They didn't get the din,ction that they deserved." While football was the only 
arraignment delayed 
sport directly addressed in the 
letter and was the "impetus for the letter," Vannie stressed that reasons l'or the letter went beyond the 5-7 rncord. 
"It mainly focused on athlet­ics and th(• background for the letter was our concern for the University at large and just pointing out some aspects of it that we believed needed f'ix­ing." Vannie said "It wasn't a short-term demand to 11x a 5­7 football record that would be thrown out [by the Board of'Trustcesl." 
Tim more than 50 who signed the letter represent alumni from the Class or 1959 through future alumni in the Class of' 2001. The writers believed their vit!ws were shared by most alumni and that the University was still a great place despite problems in the athletic department. 
"Overall we are still pretty proud of Notre Danw," Vannie said. "This is not a band of renegades. Wr. are all friends wh 6 1o v () Notre I) am n . W c don't want to stand Imm and throw rocks at Notrn Dame. 
"The Bnauchamp/ Wadsworth formula did not work as f'ar bark as thP whoJp Lou I loltz dismissal. the IHick] Maj(irus incident and thn Joe Moorn trial." he continued. "The various stamps that they put on the athletic depart­ments were causns of nmbar­rassmrnts." 
Associated Press 
STAMFOHD. Conn. 
The arraignment of a 39­year-old Kennedy nephew in the 1975 slaying uf' a neigh­bor girl was postponed Tur'sday while a juvenile court judge weighs whether to open the proc(\edings to thn public. 
Michael Skaknl, a nephew of Sen. Hobert Kennedy, was to be arraigned in juvenile court on Tuesday on charges of' bludgnoning 15-year-old Martha Mox!By to death with a golf club in the rich com­munity of Crccnwich. 
But JudgP Maureen Drnnis postponed Urn arraignment until Marc:b 14. saying she wantPd to consider a n~qursl from f'ivr, newspap11rs to opPn up the hearing. 
Bl~causc Skakc!I was 1 5 at the time of tlrn crime. the C'. M, o is bo in g h a n d I ed . a t ltiast initially, in juvrnilr court. And juvcnilP proceed­ings in Connecticut am ordi­narily closed lo thr puhlir to prot<-wt the youngstPr's pri­vacy. 
Tho New York Timm,. Th{1 llartl'ord Courant, Newsday, The Advocatn of Staml'ord and the Grcnnwich Ti me asked Dennis to open thP proccr,dings. 
They argued at a hearing that Skakel is now an adult and that the facts of the case are well known -madn public, in fact. by Skakel's lawver. 
Skakel's lawyer. Michael Sherman, said his client favors public access becaww he "wants as many people as possible to sec how bad this evidence is." 
The judge said Tuesday shn would issue a ruling early next month. and post­poned the arraignment until then. 
"We resr,nt tlrn delays," Sherman said. "It's been 25 vcars. We're ready to get ihis casri going." 
The prosecution has raisPd no objections to opening the case to tlrn public. Prosecutors want to have the case moved to adult court. which would mean the~ pro­ccndings would bP open to the public anyway. 
Skakel was charged with murder last month. 11101'(' than 24 vears after Moxl<'V was found beaten to death wilh a golf club 011 hnr fami­ly's ()state, locatnd across tlrn s·trnct from tlw Skakn! house. Tlw (,-iron used to kill Moxley was trarnd to a sP t o w n e d by t h n S k a k ld family. 

Global Health Initiative and Keough Hall Present: 
''Serving the Congo" Co-ed Volleyball Tournament Fundraiser 
Sunday, February 13, 2000 10am-6pm 
Winning teams receive prizes including: Burger King, Chili's, Olive Garden, Macri's Deli, Wolfies, T-shirts 
• First 32 teams only! • Teams of8 
• 5 or 6 players on the floor 
tn'iii
• 2 members of each gender per team 
• 
First 2 rounds are "first to 15" sir-gle-elirnination; Quarter, Semi, and Finals will be best 2 out of3 games 

• 
Each team will be notified with a time slot for their first game (chosen at random) 

• 
$20 registration donation from each team requested (collected at Dining Hall tables or at the door) 

• 
all donations are to buy beds for an under-funded hospital in the Congo ofAfrica 

• 
further donations also accepted at the door 



• 
Refreslunents provided at each game 

• 
Music 

• 
Pick up/Drop offregistration sheets at North and South Dining Halls Monday-Wednesday (February 7-9) 


• Tables will be available 11-1 and 5-7 

Questions? Call or email Kelly Hoene: 4-1422 Hoene. I or Dave Bishop: 4-2681 Dbishop 
'' ' 

VIEWPOINT 
OTHE 

Wednesday, February 9, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O Hox Q. Noire D.11ne. IN 46556 024 South Dinini: Hall. Nurre D.1111e. IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  ·  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
laura l'etellc  

Ntws EDITOR: Tim Logan VJl'WPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SroRTS EDITOR: Bri.m Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Hudat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kusluo 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lme GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mudler 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERiGENEllALlNF0 ............ 631-7•171 FAX. . ........ 631-6927 ADVERTISING ........ . ..............631-6900/8840 
observcrli!\l,11win.cc.ml.ecl11 EDITOR IN CHIEF......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDIT0R/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE... ........... 63 l-'i3 l 3 NEWS. .......... 631-5323 
obsnn:r.ohsnnvs. l 01nd.cdu V!EWl'0INT.... .......... 63l-'i303 obsc:rvcr.,·it."\Vpoinr. l@"lnd.l'tiu SPORTS ... .......... . ...................GJ 1-4543 obscrn-r.sp<lrts. I (11111d.nlu SCENE ............................... 631-4'i40 obscrvt.:r.s<.:c11t:. I(!!'1nd.edu SAINT M,\RY'S . ........................................631-4324 
observer.s1rn;.] 0•nd.cdu PHOTO.... ...............................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WED ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
•1 J~--• "e' --­
"'t_ .••• ,' •. • . , _., ..~ :-:,.-·........ 

THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ,11 hup·lloh,m1er.url.rrl11 for daily ilpdatt:s ofc1mpus llL'\VS, spores~ fc,uun:s and opinion c.:o!umns. ;ts wt.·ll .;t\ c,irronm,, ri::Yi1.:ws. ,utd hre;tk.ing lle\A.'S from rlw Assrn.im:d Pres~. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for n1i11urc.: ti.m..-ctsrs 
weather for ll.l-t~1-rh,.: 
wt'.ekly srndl'IH reviews 
onlinc features fi.)r spc.:­,md rares of prinr ads advertise tl>r polides cial c.un1n1s ct>vc:ragc 
about The Observer arrick-s pu hlisheJ afrcr 
archives to search for ro meet du:-editors ,md 
August ]')')'l 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Obser\'er is the independent. dailr newspaper published in prim and onli11<· hr rhc srudems of the UniYc1siry uf Nmrc [\unc du I;K ,1ml Saim M,uis Collq;c. Edimrial cmacnt. including advertisements, is nor ~ovcrncd hr polil.'.ics of rht.· ;.H.{minisu·,uion ofeirher insrirmion_ The Obsc.:rv1.:r reserves thl' riglu ro refuse advcniscments based on (Ontenr. 
The news is rcporred as acntrately and objecrivcly as po~sible. Unsignetl editori,1ls represent the opinion of rhc majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor. Assisr,rnt Managing Editor and department editors. Commenr,1ries, letters and wlumns presem the views of the .1urhors anJ not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vic-wpoinr spilce is avaibble to all readers. The free expression of all opinions rl1rough lencrs is enrnuraged. Letters w the Edi1or must be signed ,mJ musr indude LOIHal.'.r infqrmatmn. .. 
Q1mtiom r,x,mling Obsem,,,-poli,·ies sl,011!tl he rlirett­erl ,;, Erlitor i11 Chie/Mid,,·l/e Krupa. 
EDITORIAL 

Admit mistake, hold another election 
Since choosing Crissie Renner and Michelle Nagle as student body presi­dent and vice president, Saint Mary's Election Committee and Appeals Board members persistently have stated that the student voice resonat­ep in their m¼nds as they chose the representatives. 
Throughout the confusing week of elections. run-offs. filed appeals and complaints, however, it has become dear that they are misguided. The student voice has been loud but ignon~d. 
Committee members were illogical in their decision to nullify the tie­breaking election that voted Emily Koelsch and Rachele Rodarte into office and to designate Renner and Nagle as heads of the 2000-01 Board of Governance. 
Although she improvised the stu­dent govt1rnment constitution, activi­ties director Georgranna Rosenbush made the sensible judgment to hold a tie-breaking election after Wednesday's first-ever even run·-orr. Students cast their decisions Friday and rested their faith in Koelsch and Rodarte with 50 percent-plus-one of the vote -the only of three elections in which a ticket acquired that simple majodty. 
Based on Renner's complaint that Rosenbush unduly assumed responsi­bility and that the off-campus student lounge was not used as a polling site, the Election Committee tallied the raw votes of Monday, Jan. 31 and Wednesday. Feb. 2. 
They gave the unsound nod to Renner/Nagle, who gained 43 percent in the original Jan. 31 election, which included four tickets. The committee, thus, ignored the 20 percent of stu­dents who voted for two tickets which did not qualify for the run-off. 
After Wednesday's unprecedented tie, the election committee was forced to set a precedent. Reverting to the original election numbers demonstrates poor decision-making and the government's abandonment of its own procedures. By nullifying the tie-breaking election, importance is also stripped from the purpose of a run-off. 
In this unique situation, student government should have allowed Friday's election results to speak for themselves. More students than not demanded Koelsch and Rodarte as their leaders. Democracy, logic and the student voice all rest in their favor, 
Despite the outrage, confusion and disappointment expressed by stu­dents at Tuesday's Board of Governance meeting, current presi­dent Nancy Midden declared finality in the election process. Midden said the board will not reconsider its deci­sion. and it will keep in office the two people whom the majority of students voted against. 
Without question, the presidential election process has been muddled. The government has shown it lacks a clear grasp on the constitutional bylaws and their interpretations. 
The board members said, consider­ing this year's election fiasco, they will likely make constitutional amendments. This election, however, is the very one in which student gov­ernors need to apply students' demands. 
The only way to restore confidence in the now-questionable Saint Mary's student government and in Renner and Nagle is for the government to admit its mistake and hold another election for the student body to clear­ly choose its leaders. After a poorly run election, this is the most ethical. logical. decisive and democratic method to elect the 2000-2001 presi­dent, 
The step to overrule voters injures the trust students invest in the ~ys­tem and its rulers. 
As a result of the debacle. damage already has begun to corrode BOG, 
Renner has acknowledged her unpopularity among students and the obstacles that this will surely cause in her term. A visibly disgruntled Koelsch resigned Tuesday as the board's women's issues commission­er, citing lack of respect and belief in the very system she hoped to improve as student body president. 
If this isn't rectified, BOG will lose more enthusiastic, qualified leaders who feel they must abandon a flawed system that perverts the democratic process. 
Midden said student government's credibility rests cm tho constitution. As vocal students express fury, despondency and shock, and offer remedies such as a re-election, it is clear that all of the government's integrity lies its in listening skills. 
Student government is not listen­ing. 

DILBERT 
COME TO THE VP'S OFFICE WITH ME.. YOU NEED TO GET SOME FACE TIME. 

E 
0 
u 
0 
@)• 
,, ~ 
" 
§ " 
SCOTT ADAMS 

WHAT  AND THIS IS YOU  
IS FACE  ASKING FOR A  
TIME?  RAISE.  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Democracy means government by discussion, but it is only effective ifyou can stop people talking." 
Clement Atlee fonner British Prime Minister 
... .. .--,,
'I' 
. '' 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 OBSERVER Wednesday, February 9, 2000 
BOG failed, revote in order 
The dedsion of the PlPctions committee to consider Monday's vote final is patently ludicrous. A member of BOG stated last night that the elec­tion pro­cedures of the board am patterned on those used for our actu­al govern­ment. However, there is no con­ceivable situation in the outside world in which a tie in a run-off would be decided by going back to the original vote. Doing this not only disregards 20 percent of Monday's voters. but also the extra·3 percent who voted on Wednesdav. 
The technic~ll irregularity should not alter this. Even if the Eler,tions Committee decided that Friday's vote should be discounted. in no way was it justified in using Mondav's votes to make the final decision. That decision makes no logical sense. That decision makes no ethical sense. 
In fact, this decision is unfair to all tickets. lf Koelsch/Rodarte is the rightful winner, it is being cheated out of a position that it worked hard to attain. If Renner/Nagle is the rightful winner. then its presidenr,y is tainted. In the interest ofjustice to both par­ties. this dedsion m~eds to be reconsidered. 
The only fair thing to do now is to throw out all the eler:tions and redo all the elec­tions. with all four tickets r,ompeting. This would give all four tickets a fair chance. This suggestion was rejected Tuesday night. 
To each objection, the board reiterated that the constitu­tion was binding and that the wnstitution stated that the decision of the appeals board was final. Each time. the arguments came back to the bylaws ofBOG. 
We have always claimed to be a college that promotes ethical behavior. Elections procedures are put in place precisely for the purpose of promoting ethical policies, of giving all parties a fo.ir r,hance. When the bylaws and procedures do not promote but actually block fair results, then it is required that they be changed for the greater good of all parties. It is clear that it is the techniralities of the bylaws whkh concern BOG. 
Several times there was mentioned a need to keep the credibility of BOG. When an injustice is committed. it is morn important to have fair and ethical practices than to strictly adhere to bylaws. The BOG. by disregill·ding the protests of' the student body, has seriously lost credibility. There will be changes made in elections procedure for forthcoming years. This is the silver lining in the cloud. However, something must be done now. 


BOG was elected by the stu­dent body to make decisions. However, if at any time, a sig­nifkant amount of the student body disagrees with the board's decision, the board has a duty not only to listen to the students but to try to rem­edy the difficulty as quickly as it can, as best they r,an. 
MorN,ver. HOG has a duty to lreat all members or the student body with respect. Students did not fer,! like lh<'y were listened to last night. They felt patronized and dis­missed. They were told to "get more involved" in student govPrnment irthey were con­r,erncd. They were told that if they really had Saint Mary's Pride. they should be support­ing all the candidates and not questioning the board that thev had elected. 
fhL-; is wrong. The students who ,.,·ere at the meeting last night were th1cre precisely because they were proud or Saint Mary's, they thought that something unethir,al had occurred. and they cared enough to come to the meet­ing. Being proud of an institu­tion means you try very hard to steer that institution right when you think it is wrong. The students who protested last night did have pride in Saint Mary's. Whether they are still proud this morning is a question that needs to be examined. It is those who attack the pride of concerirnd studenl'i an~ the ones who need to reexamine their own commitments to fairness. 
On that same note. those who made personal attacks on the tir.kets or BOG membns were not justified. This is an issue of' policy, not personali­ty. If you happen to take a dis­like to a personality. that dis­like should not be aired in a public forum or as a reason to ask for a change in procedure. Personal attar,ks are not per­missible, not helpful and ulti­mately just as unfair as this election process has been. 
Ultimately. BOG's final argument boils down to "The decision is final because we said so " If the board and the Elections Committee have made mistakes, then it is not fair to penalize the two tick­ets. A fair and clean vote should be held. However, 130G rejected that suggestion last night. 
Many times. llOG has pro­vided a voice !'or students to articulate their concerns. It is a valuable liaison between students and administration. But BOG has neither the crnd­ibility nor the support of a sig­nificant amount of the student body. BOG members have failed to fulfill the responsibili­ties that thf'y were eler,ted to fulfill. 
Nakasha Ahmad is a senior 
(tl Saint Mary's. 
The views expre.%Pd in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those rfThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
SMC, ND respond to results 
Presidential election divides community 
What was supposed to bring the Saint Mary's community together has instead torn us apart. One week ago, the first vote took place. With four tickets on the ballot. a run-off was certain and expected. What happened last Wednesday, how­ever. was not expected. 
The first-ever tie was cause for cl'lebration for some, when in all actuality it was only prolonging the inevitable -one ticket losing. Both tickets wore then given yet another day to campaign. Only one ticket came to our door. Not surprisingly. that is the ticket that we votnd for along with the majority or our f'ellow classmates. Tho final count latt~ friday nigbL KoelscM'\.odartc, 51 pP.rcent; Kennor/Nagle. 46 percPnt. 
'.\low the losing ticket has appealed the decision. They certainly got what they wanted ­Kodsr.h/HodartP held office for almost 48 hours. but not anymore. Who knows what will happen nexl'! We a.re once again being torn in two direc­tions. In our opinion, this was the worst decision the Elections Commission could have made. Once again, the student body will either be forced to choose or a decision will be made that, as a stu­dent body, we will have no control over. At this point. no matter which ticket wins, just under half of the Saint Mary's population will be bitter about the result. 
Ilow unfortunate that at a time when we should be coming together to help the new student. body president start her term. we arc once again being torn apart because of a technicality. If the Fll'ctions Commission is truly acting on our behalf, it will start from scratch and hold an entirely new elflction. In tho P-nd. some pMplc will undoubtedly be unhappy, but at least the true opinion of the studf'l1t body will decide who becomes president and vice president. proving that contrary to popular belief, democracy IS still alive on the Saint Mary's campus. 
Shannon Sarachman 
KrisAnne Wilson 
J11niors r~Mans I !all February 8, 2000 
Elections Commitee should hold revote 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance lilection head-to-head compPtition. !low can you argue Committee has brought a great injustice against that? Tim votes show that of the two tickets. its students' democratic way of life. They have Koolsch/Hodarte is favored over Benner/Nagle. taken what was a great election race and ruined it IC Benner feels that some peopl<\ didn't get to on ar,counl of a petty ter,hnicality. /\ real authority vote, then thosr peoplr. should gl't a chancl' to add tigure with sonrn knowlAdge of' how the _ to Friday's vote. Tho committ<w should 
political process works needs to step in and overturn the Election Committee's decision. This panel is made up of students. most of · whom havn closr. conner,tions with one ticket or the other. making any dedsion a biased one. 
The situation with off-
campus students not being givnn an equal chance to rnvote on 
Friday is being completfl-Iv mishandled. The tlrst set of votes, unless one 
party receives more than 50 percent. is merely to narrow the students' selec­
tions to the most qualified candidates. Nowhere in the bvlaws -and I have read them ....:_ does it state that these numbers can be added to the runoff election ·s 
- ·  obably even hold a revol<1 for the  
~":~-.II  tire school~ as annoying as at would be ­but has no  
---~-....­ ·ght to pull ludicrous solu­ 
---~­ tions out or thin air.  
Elections arc hfdd so  
that the best representa­ 
live of the people can be  
•-­ ••-.._  seler,tl'd. I think the majotity of the studnnts  
foci that this is exactly  
what happen<'d, but I  

"'••••¦¦¦ii guess the Election Committee has a di!Ter­ent opinion about thr, purpose of elnctions.
•••••~~-.I 
Maybe the election never .---. should have been held in •--he first place, but the fact is at it was. and it shows who e students want as their pi:esi­nt and vice president. 
numbers. Ev~m if they r,ould, this makes no Brian Rush sense at all. Sophomore 
You r,an't possibly compare an election that has StanforJ Hall four tickets to one with only two. When the elec­Februarr 8, 2000 tion came down to it, KoelscMfodarte prevailed in 
It's clear students want Koelsch/Rodarte 
As members or the Saint Mary's student body, we find it necessary to speak to the issues involved in this year's studont body elections. 
We see blatant mistakes involved in the course of thesf' evMts. For instanr.e, the appeal filed against the winners or Friday's election was late -45 minutes late to be exact. Also, by adding Monday and Wednesday's votes to declare a win­ner, 20 percent of the voting student body is not represented. Ilow can the Elections Committee combine votes from two clearly different elec­tions? We feel that Georgeanna Hosenbush, with over 20 years of experience. acted in the best interest of the student body by approving Friday's runoff. It is obvious what the majority of the stu­dent body wants, despite the mistakes of the Elections Committee. 
If the Elections Committee has the power to combine votes from two separate elections, why couldn't they support the apparent choice of the students from Friday's eler,tion? 
As women or Saint Mary's, we want our voices heard. All four initial tickets stressed Saint Mary's pride and unity. As a result of this election, we feel that we have lost pride in our college. To restore the pride and unity. we as students need to be able to make a difference; we deserve to have the ticket that we elected take office. 
According to our mission statement. we ani to "acquire the hallmarks of a liberally educated woman ... the ability to make socially responsible choices about the future." 
The l'uture begins now. 
Tara Butz Amy Dooms Kristin Frazer Jen Griffith Megan Kosel Sarah Merrick Nina Riconosciuto Molly Strzelecki Beth Teagan Melissa Wheeler Kris Anne Wilson 
Le Mans and Holy Cross Halls February 7, 2000 


... 

VIEWPOINT 
OTHE 

Wednesday, February 9, 2000 BSERVER 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Renner defends complaint 
I am wriling to giv1e a dear and accuratr account or tlw evnnts which led to thr com­plaint filed concnrning the• Plection on Friday. Feb. 4. On Sunday, F11b. 6. I lleanwd that the decision to hold ,; third c\lP<'.tion on Friday was madP improperly. 
I lParni!d that this decision was initially sug­gnslPd by Georgeanna Hosc\nbush. dirnctor of Studrnt Artivitil's. Those presPnt at thn time went along with the dncision and assumed lhat slw \\ as l'amiliar with and f'ollowing elec­tion bylaws. I did not quflstion this dncision at tlrn time brn:ause. in the midst ol' a busy cam­paign. I was a candidatn and not thn Elections Co111missio1wr. 
When I i<',mrnd lhe circumstances of the dPcision on Sunday. I consulted tlrn election bvlaws, which drarlv statP that drcisions c;mrnrning nlections·!'all under the jurisdic­tion ol' tlw Ekclions Committee, which is com­posed of two reprnscntatives l'rom each resi­denrn hall. as well as an off-campus repre­sentaLiv<'. who wPre approv11d by tho Board or GovPrnancP in th,~ fall. 
Unfortunat11lv. llw I,:t,\rlions Cummitll'e and llw bylaws ~rni11 NOT consultc:d \Vpdnesday night con1·<'rning tlw dc,c·ision to hold another PIPrtion. 
Tlw bylaws also slatr that off-campus stu­dents must votP in a separatP location other than tl11' dining hall. The' Plection on Friday did not inl'ludP a separatn location, which led to 111ul'h ronl'usion and irritation for o!T-carn­pus studnnls who had been ablP to vote in the oil-campus lounge in both Monday's and W!'dnrsday's 1\l1•1·tion. ,\!though olT-campus studPnls rould votP in the dining hall on Friday. thn dining hall is not normally used by olT-rnmpus studenls and is out ol' their way. 
Additionally. l'ollowing prccrdPnts set on Monday and Wednesday, many off-campus studPnts went to vote in the off-campus loungr> wherr: thny !'ound no voting booths and no sign dirncting them lo the dining hall. Many off-campus students we1·e subsequcnqy unaware of" Llw existrncr of a third election. 
Based on llrn fact that olT-ramµus students wcr<' not giwn the opportunity lo vote in the off-campus lounge. it is impossible to stale tlrnt the student bodv's voicn was heard in Fridav's dcct.ion. bc·;:ause obviouslv th<, stu­di~nt bodv includes both on-and ori'-cmnpus students.· Therefore. the student body which tlw candidatl'S all sought lo rnprnscnt was NOT reprnsenlnd by tlw clnction Friday. 
I dncided to !He a complainl concmning 
both tlw negl1w.\ of the authority llf'thr 
EIPclions Commitl<'P and the absPncP of' 01T­
ra111pus voling. The election bylaws were 
dearly and irrnf'utably violated and largely 
ignored f'ollowing W1,dnesday ni~ht's election. 
In light of thes1: violations. I l'elt compelled to 
submit a complaint to the Interim Elections 
Commissionrr. Bridget llr!Ternan. 
As of today, I return to my office as 
Elections Commissioner for the current srhool 
year. 
As Elections Commissioner. I am very con­scious of tho bylaws, but tlw other candidates should have bncn as well. Unfortunately. WP all assumed that the bylaws were being fol­lowed correc:tlv on Wednesday. When I became aware of the fact that Ms. Rosenbush and Miss Heffernan suggested the third elec­tion without thr consultation of the Elections Committee as dictated by the bylaws, I wrote and filed the complaint in a timely manner as also prescribed by the bylaws. 
Following my complaint, lhe Elections Committee convened and realized the unfor­lunate vet obvious violation surrounding the lhird efoction. As within its jurisdiction, based on the bylaws. the Elections Committee declared the lhird election null due to the improper pr0cPdures followed. 
Although the bylaws do not specifically mention the actions required in the event of a tie, the bylaws do state that such decisions are the responsibility of the Elections Committee. NOT the director of Student Activities nor the Elections Commissioner. 
As a member of the Saint Mary's student body, I felt compelled to file the c:omplaint in order to shed light on the faulty procedures in Friday's election. 
If the election on Friday had been properly executed and the ENTIRE student body had had the opportunity to voice its opinion. I would accepl the resulls. However. the reality or the situation reveals lhe unacceptable nature of the third election. Michelle and I acted in the best interest of the student body as legislated by the election bylaws. It would have been unethiral for any of us aware of the violations to remain silent. Therefore, we returned to the authority of the Elections Committee, and the Elections Committee is subsequently responsible for determining the final outcome. 
Also, the Elections Appeals Board has sup­ported the drcision of the Elections Committee to nullify Friday's election and to determine me and Michelle Nagle the student body president-and vice president-elect. 
We regret the inconvenience of Friday's election and assure you that we filed the com­plaint Sunday -immediately following our knowledge of the gri<wous violations in con­nection with it, Throughout the campaigning process. Michelle and I pledged our dedica­tion to serving the ncr>ds of the student body. and we want to reiterate our love of Saint ~lary's and our great enthusiasm in serving as your student body presidrnt and vice presi­dent. Emilv Koelsch and Rachele Hodarte are grf'at asseis to student government and deserve to be recognized for their hard work and dedication to Saint Mary's. 
In closing, we wish to extend an invitation to the student body to work with us as we prepare to serve you. We arP always open to your concerns and needs and look forward to a successful and fun year. 
Crissie Renner Stu,lcnt Body President-Elect Saint Mary's College F~bruary 8, 2000 
page 11 
Koelsch, Rodarte thank students 
Th.is has bren a difficult sevPral weeks for the two of us. and now that a final decision has been made. Emily and I would like to thank the student body of Sainl Mary's for their concern about our srhool. The purn far;t that a large number of our peers expressed their interest throughout the election process shows your concern. 
The frustation could have led to apathy but instead further energized the student body. As a community, you have made your opinions and pride known. 'vVe encourage you to continue this involvement and to let your voices be heard across campus this year and next. 
You have been the driving force behind us, and we thank you for showing pride and regard for your peers and school. We appreciate you and are proud to be a part of the Saint Mary's College student body. 
Emily Koelsch Rachele Rodarte 
Holy Cross Hall Junior< February 8, 2000 
BOG applauds SMC, election decision 
To the Members of the Saint Mary's student body: 
We, the Executive Board of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance, wish to applaud the Saint Mary's student body members who took it upon themselves to express their con­cerns regarding the 2000-2001 student body presidential and vice presi­dential elec­tions. 
We also wish to applaud the members of the current Student Government Association who have been han­dling the recent events with the utmost courage, responsibil­

ity, dedica­
Association tion and 
constitution intelli­
have gence. The 
insured fair­Executive 
ness. Board has complete faith in and Nancy A. 
supports the final deci­sions that were made by 
the Elections Committee and the Elections Appeals Board. 
These recent events have served to solidify our confi­dence in the workings of the Student Government Association. 
However, our constitution is a working document. As a result of this unprecedented election, proposals to amend our constitution are under­way and forthcoming. We encourage any member of the student body to personally 
contact any members of the 
Executive Board or the Board 
of Governance to voice her 
suggestions. We also encourage all 
members of the Saint Mary's 
community to treat all those involved with the elections process. including the candidates, with the respect and decency 
We are all mem­bers of the same student body. and we implore you to act with 
graciousness and maturity. There is no one to blame. It was an unfortunate occurrence: however, the strong guidelines established by the Student Government 
ffi 
Midden 
Student Body President 
Angie Little 
Student Body Vice President 
Residence Hall Association Presidem 
Janet Horvath 
Student Activities Board Coordinator 
Bridget C. Heffernan 
Exec u tivc Secretary 
Elise S. Hall 
Executive Treasurer 
Sainr Mary's College February 8, 2000 
' . 


page 12 Wednesday, February 9, 2000 
THEATER PREVIEW 

By AMBER AGUIAR 
Si..:ene Wrlrc:r 
The close-knit cast of this year's Pasquerilla East Musical Company pro­duction will bring new energy to an American classic as it perform its rivet­ing rendition of "Grease" this weekend in Washington Hall. 
B r i a n Grease Seaman .directs a cast
APasquerilla East Musical 
of 25 stu­Company production dents who 
. Where: Washington Hall have come 
together to 
. When: Thursday through perform a 
Saturday, 7:30 p.m. truly unique version of the 
. Tickets: Sold out. Casi 
familiar story invites guests to of hormonal high school
Wednesday night dress 
students rehearsal, 7:30 p.m. t'rom the '50s grappling with issues of love and life after gradua­tion. With bright costumes. constant action and lively song and dance. this perfor­mance is a tremendous show of energy. Audiences of the much-anticipated and highly amusing musical will be delighted with this distinctive production. Adam Witmer. who plays Danny, rec­ommended: "Don't look for anv of us to just do impressions of past lilm or stage Sandra D's or Dannys and Kenickes." /\s Witmer suggested, spectators expecting an imitation of th<> popular movie rendition will be surprised. The cast remains true to the musical's origi­nal script -a more risque, realistic ver­sion than the film depiction. According to Tiana Checchia (Sandy), '"The play was not written as a family show at all. The original play is dirty. It's a lot raunchier. And it's a lot more fun." "The play is about fun, nialistic char­acters that talk like you and I do in our dorm rooms," said Seaman. "It's got tons of' thc adoles<:enL humor that twcry­onP loves." While the musical is set in high school. it contains many elements Notre Dame 
students can still identil'v with. According to Holly Hoffman {Hi;,zo), "It's not like we had to do a lot of research to put on a play about going out, getting drunk and hooking up. Everyone can relate to being a teenager and being retarded." 
The musical is full of funny characters like Roger (played by Matt Baggetta), who constantly moons people and Sonny (Joe Larson). who is drunk in every scene. Each character is unique, with a distinctive personality. Betsy Kahl (Marty) said: "Every character has an original way of walking, talking and dancing." 
And each actor developed those man­neris ms throughout the past few months. "Brian encouraged us to shape our characters ourselves," said Witmer. "We've had to fill out background infor­mation on our characters and 
do improvisa­"When was the last time you saw a lot Quincy Starnes tions to become welcome the
ofmen dancing in unison?" 
more familiar actors' input. with our stage According to personalities. Betsy Kahl Cunningham, Nobodv is a actress "Our ideas are 
"We spend so much time together that some might say we resemble a small cult." said Hyan Cunningham, who plays Doody in the production. 
But the closeness that has developed amongst the cast helps during practice and performance. "We can read each other now, so if someone misses a line, the rest of us can help. Besides, we're playing friends onstage so it works in our favor that we actually are [friends) offstage," says Checchia. 
The actors have helped with every aspect of the prnduction, including choreography. set construction and advertisement. 
"In the beginning, some of the crew dropped out, but the cast really picked up the slack," said Seaman. "There's a real sense of teamwork here. The cast is involved because they want to be." 
Seaman and 
choreographer 
member of a 'chorus' everybody in I.he show has an acl.ual, well-developed character." 
The cast is made up of students or diverse majors and theater back­grounds. "There's a wide range of cxpc­rienre from people who have been act­ing since conception to people who just tried it for fun. But we all learn from each other," said Kahl. 
The group has been practicing five days a week, four hours a day, since they were cast in September. According to Seaman. "A positive byproduct of all this work we've been doing is that we've bncome very good friends. [ hope that's what people will see onstage." 
The cast practices togeth(~r. works out together, sponds time togethcr on week­ends and throws "Grease" cocktail par­ties. The group has even taken a trip to Canada together. "Twenty people in three hotel rooms. II' that's not cast bonding, then I don't know what is," su.id Seaman. 
nearly always 
embraced and added to the show in some form or anothrr." 
Even costumes were developed in part by the actors. "Over Christmas break we went home and raided our parents' clos­ets," said Hoffman. Thus, this werkend. the entire cast and pit orchestra will dress in fun '50s attire. 
The musical is packed with energy and excitement, as each student, includ­ing those in the pit orchestra, exercises inf1uencc over the show. According to saxophone player Ruth Luckas, 'There's a lot of improv. There's a score them that you play from. but f'or almost every song there's ad lib writtnn in. So there's a lot of freedom and opportunity to goor around." 
The orchestra stands at the rear of the stage and is always visible. The unique set design allows the players of' the instruments to be part of the action. making the stage even livelier. 
Set designer Alan /\hies developed a system that would allow actors to quick­ly switch from one scene and location to another. He constructed two large, moveable platforms that change from bleachers. to a car, to a couch, to a bed and back again. as scenes change quick­ly without break in rhythm or action while the audience watches. 
While actors were waiting for the set to be constructed, they practiced on tables in the Pasquerilla East chapel. "13y the end we'd nearly broken all of them," said Checchia. "There isn't a table left that isn't drooping in the mid­dle." Ceiling tiles were another P.E. casualty, as boys threw girls through them while practicing stunts for big dance numbers. 
Starnes developed these dance num­bers with complicated footwork and fun props for the experienced dancers that make up much of the cast. 'Td never worked with people who knew what they were doing before. It's a lot harder to choreograph," said Starnes. "You have to be more creative and try to include things that will challenge them." 
Yet, some of the steps proved chal­lenging to the point of dangerous. Kahl was dropped on the ground headfirst when she and her partner tried a dance stunt in which she flips over his back. Seeing her fall, Seaman tried to show Kahl's partner how to correctly throw her. But in demonstrating the "proper" way to do the stunt, he too dropped her on her head, this time twice as hard. 
Though the musical is f'ull of' fun, dynamic dance numbers that may look easy, as Seaman demonstrated. the cast's advice is not to try them at home. 
This year's P.E. musical production of "Grease" is packed with a surprising amount of energy, excitement and t'un. "People will think they know what to exp(~ct, but they'll definitely be blown away." said Checchia. 
According to Nicole Swartzentruber (cherrlcadcr/ensemblc}, "If they enjoy it half as much as we enjoy putting it on, then it's worth coming and it's worth all of the work we've put in doing it." 
Besides, said Kahl. "When was the last time you saw a lot of men dancing in unison'? You've got to see this_" 


s .,.. 

Wednesday, February 9, 2000 page 13 
Don't fear creepy-looking Morrissey Hall 
l:'dilrir ·s note: Scene 11.'ill conlirwe lo .fea­1llrc th1' d()rms ond residence halls of \'o/re Dame and ,'i'ainl Mary's lhrouqhoul 
the sprin[] semester. ,lnyune u1teresled in //Tiling rt fl'alure ()fa clrmn should !'-moil Scene al ScP1rn@11d ('du. 
By MOLLY McSHANE 
:i...-Ln,: \X1rili:r 
\Vh1'n onP stops aml looks at MorrissPy llall from al'ross tlw South ()uad. hP or .,he 1:,urnot lwlp but noti('.{' its Vl)ry non­dormish appParancl~. Tlw long walkway IPading up to thP front c,ntrnnc<', th<' state­ly iuwcr on tlw roof and thc simple sign ;ibm'l' llw door: MOBHISSEY MANOH, all !Pad 0111' to bdic·v<' that this is rnor<' than _just ,l rul11•g1' durm. It's an nstatn. 
l'1'rhaps this is what tlw dorm's 288 ori:upants orig-i nally thought wh1:n they w111T assigiwd Morrisst'Y as thdr J'uturn honw that f'ateful .luly hdor<· frcshnwn VP,u·. And wrTPn·t tlrny surprisf~d lo rnal­Jl'.f' that bv "Manor." \;\'hat was actually nwanL wa~ '\pry small rooms." t\c!'ording to llll' lrnll's \V[•b sill'. 'v1orrissl\V \\·as voV·d tlw '"'v\'orst Dorm in :'\mPric:l" by Link Maga1,i1w. 
.\nd Yl'l. tlw ~oung 11w11 llwn· Sf'('l11 lo !w ,tbl1• to look at all that and lovP Morrissr•v !'or what il trulv is. "Even Lhm,gh Lh;, rooms an· !Pss th;m spacious. tlw group atmosplwrc more than makPs up f'or tlw lal'k or room size:· said sopho­more .lo!' Larson. "\Vhcn vou are in as close of' quarwrs as we a;1·. you pretty much haw lo get to know everyonn." 
''l'Pop!P think that tlw rooms a.re small, but WP havc1.:,!_),.rnany ditfrrent s<•lups, sin­glPs all t!w way up through eight-mans. With all that varil'LV and tlH\ common 1·ooms lo \\ork with_-you don't los1• that much spc1cc. Ami besides, the people in the· Manor arn so grrat. and Fathc,r Bill is the best rer:tor on campus. so we don't mind losing a f'e,v square feet." said Mike Grau. who lives in one of th(' Manor's quads. 
Morrissey is <HW of the oldest dorms on campus, built in 1925 and named after Father i\ndrew Morrissey. who was the president of the University in the begin­ning uf' tho 20th century. It was designed bv Franris Kervick of thP KPrvkk and ragan Architecture Firm, and although it has bl~Cn rern1vat0,d more than om:e, thfl Manor still retains mur,h of' its historic beauty. The main lobby is still decorated in a vcrv similar fashion as it was back in th0 dorn1's earliest years, giving Morrissey a ddinitc sense of history and importance. 
llo\\evcr, sumc find Murrisscv·s gntndour appearanre to b<' imposing. ·..A girl I knew last year asked me how I could !he here, because it 'creuped her out' f'mm the outside," said Crm1. 
It may be true that, from a few angles, Morrissey somewhat resembles a "Scuuby Doo" mansion; but according to the young 1111,n who livn within. there is nothing cn~epy about the Manor. 
"It's a very laid-back place to live," said Larson. "Everyonn really tries to get to know mw another. Hight away. when you movl' in, you am accepted as a part of the Morrissey community." 
And Morrissey is not a bad communitv to be a part of either. With Hall Presidents Gerry Olinger, Paul Sepe and Dan Brosmer leading the Manorites into this, their 75th anniversary year, things could not be better for the Manor. Successful intramural teams and events such as the infamous Christmas SYR have helped to give Morrissey its impressive reputation. 
So the next time the Manor's appear-

ance leads you to believe that the eyes on like any other dorm, and the eyes only the paintings within are watching you, seem to be watching you because of the remember two things: Morrissey is just technique used by the artist. 


THE Guv THE GAL
'He sauC ••• Sfte saul... 
Scene asks about love in a seriesofcolumns leading up to Valentines Day. 
--6To'"'t: 6Jf,e oPPosite sex on campus --
....,.. Respond to these columns at Scene@nd.edu
SCOTT LITTLE ERICKA RAVETTINE 
Today I am supposnd to writn guys. 
The men of the Notre Dame fam­time the shy guy is able toabout the girls of' Notn• Dame and The Full of Grace: Too Catholic to ily:. What can I say. they're an enig­approach the object of his affectionSt. Mary's. I know every girl is likP bovs. 

ma. Their personalities and atti­is after a six-pack of beer. For theunique and spnl'.ial. bul that won'l The Fun Friend: Fun to hang out 


tudes cross a very wide spectrum, most part, this young man feelsstop mP from catl'g-orizing thPm like with. has similar personality as you. 

but generally, Domer men fall into more comfortable hanging out withfood producl'i in a supnrmarket. but for one reason or another, you 

-
these three categories: the cool the guys or studying for his nextIn my girl supnrmarkf1t them am will nrwer get with her. 

guy, the friendly guy and the shy test.

dilfon'llt aisl!~s just likn at a rngular The Chocolate Monkey: Gave up guy. We'll start with the 'cool guy.' I know these are just a few broadsup1Tmarkl't. on boys a while ago and now This man walks around with his and somewhat stereotypir.al cate­Most p1)ople say that Saint Mary's spends hr.r lime swinging from chest puffed out and his head held gories. I'm sure many of you havegirls arn easy. but wouldn't you be r.andy bar to candy bar. (Usually high. Our cool guy believes that he other categories and characteris­loo il'you w1m· at a single' sex Big) is the sun and the planets do tics you could add. So, I would likeschool? I la ha. I am only jPsting. (No Thf' Friend's Sister: Off limit<;. 
indeed revolve around him; he to leave you with a general lump­I'm not). Dan1:es. I think. can bf' The Project: She will be fun and thinks that he is God's gift to ing of the categories. which giveslookt'd at IL~ f'rl'c sampl,1 d<Lys at the aw11sumc but it will take a long time women and he is desperate for us the typical ND man.

supPrmarkPt. and through tlwsc bncause of' cithf'r high morals or those around him to believe it too. Ile 's from a strong family and isexp1\rinncns I havn basically found narrow view on what is fun. 

Next is the 'friendly guy.' an intelligent person who generallySaint M,try·s girls and ND girls to Lw The Mirror Junky: Too stuck on He's the one that seems to know excelled in high school. Due to his at the sanw markd. Thcr(' is a lot of thomsclvns to actually like a boy. 

absolutely everyone on campus background, he tends to be veryuncovnrcd ground at Saint Mary's The Taken: These girls are taken and is generally spotted giving out conservative and is undersexed.

though, and I totally rer.omnrnnd for by boyl'riends back home that are hugs. When it comes to the oppo­which leads to his homophobicguys to t\at owr at their dining hall \VAY better than any ND boy is1 site sex, the friendly guy holds true nature. Many of these men have once in a whill' <wP.n if' thnir food The Librarian: You rarelv seP. 
lo his title: He's great to go out never been around a large numberisn'las good as it is at Notn' Dame. tlwse girls becausr, they are always with, fun to be around, but neither of intelligent, career-oriented111\rn ,Lr!' Lhc aisl1•s/Gttegorins: studying. 

party in the friendship has much women and they don't know howThe 0rinky Slut.: This is a girl ThP Sportsnuf.s: Athlete g-irls who romantic interest for the other. to deal with them. In order to com­who SP.ems to bP normal during the am loud in the dining hall and have Finally we come to the 'shy guy.' pensate, they regress to a 1950sw1wk. but l'l\ally all wct)k long she sport;; boyfriends. 

This is the cute, quiet guy in the outlook of women. There don'tjust thinks about gntting with guys. Thf' Amazing: Something about corner of everyone of your classes, seem to be many who are enlight­and wlwn th<' weekend comlls, and her is larger than lite. She is a girls. His personality is thf' most ened enough to be able to deal withsonrntinws sornwr than that. slw demigod, an inspiration, the kind or peculiar here on campus. The only the diversity around them.

will start drinking and lhf'n gf•t with girl that you'd die f<w. 
Tomorrow's topic: Can guys and gals be friends? 
...---------.------------------------------------------------.. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 9, 2000 
NHL 

Hurricanes edge past Islanders 
Associated Press 

UNIONDALE, N.Y. 
Ron Frands srort>d his 15th goal with 2:31 left to givP-1.he Carolina Hurricanfis a 4-3 vic­to rv over thP New York Jslai1ders on Tuesday night. 
Francis wristed the puck over goalie llobcrto Luongo's glove Lo give I.he llurricarrns their first road victory in six games. 
Jeff Daniels, Marlin Gelinas and Andrei Kovalenko also scored for Carolina. and Arturs lrbe made 17 saves. 
Daninls gave thr llurricanes a 1-0 !Pad at 4: 10 of the first period at thf' end of' his own four-shot f'!urrv at Week0s, who stopped tl~e first three chances bt>l'nre accidentallv knocking the puck over the goal line with his arm. 
Gelinas capped a 3-on-2 break by tapping in Paul Coffoy's perfoct cross-ice pass at 8:38 to give Carolina a 2-0 lead. 
Czerkawski scored on a power-play goal at 13:00, flip­ping in a close-range shot whi!P falling. 
Devils 2, Rangers 2 

Mike York scored the tying goal early in the third period. but New Jersev later killed off a four-minute power play as the Devils extended their unbeaten streak against the New York Hangers to 18 gamrs with a draw. 
Scott Gomez had a goal and an assist for the D<>vils. who have not losl to the Hangers since Jan. 12. 1997. 
Devils goalie Martin Brodeur protected the tie with two great saves in the final 25 sec­onds of regulation. 
Thiw Fleury gave the Rangers a 1-0 [Pad in the sec­ond period just 20 seconds after a power play. 
Nearlv four minutes later, the Devils tied it. Lvle Odolein's point shot bounced· off dnfnnsB­m an Mathinu Schneider and McLean. but Gomez swept it in for his 14th goal. 
New Jersey took the lead 
2:02 later. on Nemrhinov's fifth goal. 
Sharks 8, Lightning 0 

Ow(rn Nolan had two goals and three assists. and Stf'vc Shields stopped 23 shots as the San Jrnrn Sharks ended a six­game winless streak with a vic­tory over the Tumpa Bay Lightning. 
Jeff f.riesen had lwo goals and two assists for San Jose, which won f'or just the ser,ond time in 10 games. 

The Sharks, who had scored just 11 times in the past six games, Look a 2-0 first-period lead on goals by Nolan and Hon Sutter. 
Friesen, Nolan and Todd Harvey had second-period goals, putting the Sharks up 5­
0. 
FriesPn, Ronnie Stern -:who had gone 24 games without a goal -and Patrirk Marleau added third-period San Jose goals. 
Blues 4, Red Wings 1 
Michal llandzus scored the go-ahead goal as St. Louis beat Detroit. the Blues' first road victory over the Red Wings in almost three yt>ars. 
Jamal Mayers, Marty Reasoner and Sr,ott Pellerin also scored for the Blues, who 
have lost twice at Joe Louis Arena this season. 
Larry Murphy scorf'd for the Hect Wings, who lost tlrnir third straight -their longest skid of 
tht• season. · 
llan<lzus broke a 1-all lie on his 14th goal at 3::i3 of' the sec­ond poriod. Handzus skated into 1.lrn left circ:le and snappr,d a shot that sailed into the uppor right rorner ovor the oulstrntchod glove ol' goalie Chris Osgood 
Hr,asoncr made it 3-1 with his fourth goal al 7:08 or the sr,<'ond and Pellerin scored his firth at 2:18 of the third. 
Maynrs gave St. Louis a 1-0 lead with his fourth goal. beat­ing Osgood at 4:15 ol' the first period. 
Murphy's power-play goal tied it l with 1:15 left in the first. beating goalif: Homan Turck. 
Capitals 2, Bruins 2 
Craig Billington stopped 49 shots and Ken Klr.c scored with 
3:54 left in regulation to give the Washington Capitals a tie with the Boston Bruins. 
Billington started in plac:e of Olaf Kolzig, who got a much­deserved rest after starting the last 19 games and also playing in the All-Star game on Sunday in Toronto. 
Dave Andreychuk gave Boston a 2-1 lt>ad when he tipped Anson Carter's pass through Billington's pads with :H sernnds left in the second pr.riod. It was Andreychuk's 
191.h goal of the season. 
13ut Klee scored his fourth of the season when he beat goalie Byron Dafoe with a one-timer from the slot off Richard Zednik's pass. 
NBA 
Carter leads Raptors past Hawks, I09-88 
Associated Press 
TCH!ONTO 
Vince Carter scored :-16 points, one day after cutting open the middle finger of his Ieft hand. and Ied the Toronto Haptors over Atlanta 109-88 Tuesday night for just their second win in 18 games against the Hawks. 
CartPr, the leading votri­gettcr for this weekend's /\.II-Star game, hurt the fin­ger while lifting WP-ights Monday. Ile needed three stitches to close a half-inch cut' and played with a 13and­Aid. 
lie srorNl 20 points in the l'irst half as Toronto took a 54-48 lead, converting a three-point play after a low blow while attempting to dunk ovPr LaPhonso Ellis in the second quarter. 
Toronto began the third quarter on a 19-4 run as Carter scored IO points, including a 3-pointer that made it 73-52. 
Carter scored 14 points as Toronto outscored Atlanta 31-14 in the quarter. 
Oikembe Mutombo led Atlanta with 22 points and 15 rebounds. 
Nets 131, Celtics 113 
The New Jersey Nets made 17 of 24 shots from the field and scored a team­record 46 points in the lirst 
quarter en  route to  a  win  
over the Boston Celtics.  
Stephon  Marbury  and  

Keith Van Horn had 30 points apiece as New Jersey opened a 23-point lead al'ter 12 minutes and then never looked back in beating Boston for the first time in four games. Tho points were an NBA high for a first quarter this season. 
Kendall Gill added 19 points and Kerry Kittles had I h as New Jersey won its second straight and hand<'d Boston its 19th loss in 23 road gamPs. Marbury made 10 of 12 shots from the 11eld. 
Boston was led by Antoine Walker, who had 27 points before being ejected for two technicals in the fourth quarter. 
The Nets' final point total and their 58 percent shoot­ing from the field ( 4 7 of 81 ) were season highs: the total was the most given up by Boston this season. 
Marbury had 14 in the fourth quarter and Van Horn and Gill added 11 apiece. 
The Nets. who have given away the lead in each of their last nine losses, built a 29-point margin in the sec­ond quarter and then seemed to tease the crowd. letting Boston cut the gap a couple of times: 17 at the start of tho third quarter and 15 midway through the fourth quarter. 
However, each time the Nets got a couple of show­time dunks from Van Horn, Kittles and even a windmill by Marbury off a steal. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business dar from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer re§erves the right ro edit all ch1ssifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES LOSE WEIGHT' EAT WHAT YOU LIKE! WEIGHT WATCHERS BRAND­NEW ON CAMPUS PROGRAM  FOOSBALL players wanted. Looking tor 2-3 high level teams lo play. Contact Din evenings 257­4441. South Bend based company is presently in search of a dynamic accomplished IT professional/Web guru for the developmenl of its new Internet business team. Successful  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE http://mmmrentaIs. ho mepage .com/ email: mmm renlals@aol.com 232-2595 6 BEDRM. '00-'01 $1200/mo. 273-0482  1991 Honda accord EX 88,000 miles $6000 219-273-8483 Compaq Computer has CD burner and printer $1300/OBO Mike at 247-1196  VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS Deadline is 2 pm on Friday, Feb. 11. Hey Rompf: NINE-POINT-NINE  Katie Metz and Cristina are quite possibly the awesomest math group ever! Hello Jackie and and Tara and Keara and Jake! Hope you're having a fabulous day  
- Your super-convenient dream diet from a name you trust is coming to Notre Dame and St. Mary's! No complicated counting! Eat pizza, cake-any food you crave and lose weight. Get five info-packed book­lets. tons of super-easy recipes, and specialized online support from trained Weight Watchers staff. You pay just $79 for 7 weeks. Start the millennium right-register today over the phone: 1-800-651-6000. Visa, MasterCard and Discover accepted.  candidale possesses advanced computer skills and has an exten­sive knowledge of all aspects at web management, graphic/techni­cal design and programming. Forward resume to: Human Resource Dept. PO Box 1007 Notre Dame. IN 46556 In search of Web guru for South Bend based company. Creative free thinker. who can do it all with the Web. Forward resume to: Resonnel  Available '00·01. 4-6 Student Rental House ...2 112 baths: lots of space; Parking Lot and Laundry ... Dave 291-2209 NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF NO EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE 2773097 B'NB REGISTRY  GREAT STUDENT CAR. '88 FORD FESTIVA, BLACK, 2­DR, GOOD CONDITION. MANUAL TRANS, 56K, AM/FM CASSETTE. FACULTY OWNED W/SERVICE RECORDS. $750, 237-1981. TICKETS  The Lauras have a little late-night fun. -P-tel GAY & LESBIAN STUDENT GROUP meets Wednesday, Feb. 9 at9pm. Call Tom@ 1-4112or Tami @ 1-3016 for more info. Hey chicas!  John Miller is the BESTEST brother in the whole world! Hey to all you gals out there! Martin Lopez of room 430 Knott Hall is just too fabulous for his own good. Give him a call! Are you a tan of Rod Stewart? Do you feel all alone in the world? Fear not, there is help! Seel Bo in room 427 Knott  
LOST & FOUND  Dept PO Box 185 Osceola, IN 46561 Childcare needed.  219-291-7153  WANTED 2 Tx MBBall ND·UCONN  Happy early birthday Kelle Kilgarriff!  Bob Mucci wasn't here  
..  ANNABELLE· YOU LEFT YOUR GLASSES AND CONTACT CASE IN MY CAR WHEN I GAVE YOU A RIDE TO ND FROM THE TRAIN STATION MONDAY CALL 272­9225.  1 or 2 students for 20 hrs per week between 9 and 5 to watch 2 yr old & newborn for ND prof 1n our home.Experience and transporta• tion required.Some flexibility in scheduling possible. Please call Rose at 289-3856.  3 bdrm. home. 1-1/2 bath, tri-level, F/R w/F/P. Fenced back­yard. 2-car garage. Gas heat, A/C, across from park. $1,500/mo. Grad. students preferred. 616-683-5038 or 232-4527. Mobile: 219-340-1844.  Please Call Alan 634-4469 Needed -2 tix for UConn game. Call Matt at 1056  11 lovelove doubledouble chexchex betterbetter thanthan thethe restrest UGH!  I will get shot now Oh well, I suppose that's the price you pay for writing about mafia members in the classifieds of The  
Lost: Cincinalli Reds hat, left at JACC during LNO. HUGE senti­mental value. reward if found. Call Scott 4-1304 WANTED Professor needs 3 hrs. help on small farm 1 mile lrom N.D. 277-5328 Email Ford.1@nd.edu  South Bend based company seeks talented graphic designer.Advanced PhotoShop and other design software skills required.Send resume.salary requirements and portfolio samples to:Personnel Dept. PO Box 30 Notre Dame. IN 46556 FOR RENT 2-6 BDRM HOMES '00·'01 272· 6306  3 ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME. $400/MO INCL UTILITIES EXCEPT PHONE NON-SMOKERS. WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM­PUS 288-4241. FOR SALE New Phone Card 886 mins. $20 258-4805 or 243-9361  Need Basketball Tickets for ND vs. UCONN Feb. 12 Must be betwen baselines, lower level. Will pay $150 a piece. 6 needed. Call Chris (219) 251·9364, PERSONAL www.thecornmentator.com  Happy Valentine's Day to all! Hey Kristin and Kate and Lauren!. Luv you guys! Swing dance partyi Date TBA Hurry and call to learn how to swing before the party! Call Kristin at 4-2353.  Observer. Look at me, I'm Sandra DI Hey Brian Price, you are my favorite boy of room 427 Knott! Of course, that's not sayin' much Have a fabulous day to all!  

--------------------------~­
.. , . . . . . ' 
. , . . . . .
~ 
-~-----~-------------~----1 
'I 
cf_, I 

Wednesday, February 9, 2000 I 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 15 . I 
' 
I I 
I 


"The End of the Affair ? Abortion And Middle America" 
Presented by ;;­

e 
President, 
Americans United for Life, 
the oldest national prolife 
' 
...,... I 
' I
public interest law firm. ' I 
I 
I I I 
' 
I 
' 
l I 
I 
I

Wednesday, February 9th 7 pm -l 
I I 

Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
' ' 
' 
• • I ........,_ j 
I 
·I 
I 
I 
I 
I

Sponsored by Notre Dame Law School Right to Life. I I 
I 
' 
I

A reception will follow the lecture. ' 
I I 
I 
I I I 
I 
i 
I I 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 9, 2000 
NCAA 

Goss ends rocky reign as Michigan AD 
Associated Press 

ANN ARBOR. Mich. 
Michigan athletic director Tom Goss ended a rocky 2 1/2-ycar reign by resigning today. effective at the end of March. 
"It has not been easy. but the posi­tives out­weighs the negatives." Goss said at a news 


r, o n r e r -Goss 
ence. "l believe that while it is time for me Lo step aside. a course has bAen 
defined to lead this depart­ment to great accomplish­ments." 
University president Lee Bollinger ar.cepted the resig­nution. 
"I want to express my admi­ration and gratitude for the many qualities Tom has brought to this athletic department," Bollinger said. "Tom has a deep and emo­tional connection to the uni­versity rooted in his days here as a studimt athlete." 
A source close to the situa­tion. speaking on condition of anonymity. said Bollinger had asked Goss to resign. The source said Goss considered fighting the request. hut did not. 
"He didn't want to go to court." the source said. 
Bollinger said the reasons for Goss' resignation is far too complex for ariy kind of sim­ple statement. 
Earlier reports had said that Goss, 53. would likely be fired if he didn't resign. ·Just last week. Goss rejected as rumors reports that his resignation was imminen l. 
Goss was the university's 
The papers reported that Bollinger learned of the Crawford investigation on television while watching a basketball game between the Wolverines and in-state rival Michigan State while he was in Washington. D.C. 
Within hours. the Detroit paper said, Bollinger formed a crisis team that included Provost Nancy Cantor, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Hobert Kasdin and Lisa Tedesco. a university· vice president whose job is to alert Bollinger and tbe regents to any impending negative publicity. 
Their efforts quickly focused on Goss' handling or the Crawford case. according to the Detroit paper. After two days of fact.:checking. they recommended Thursday that Bollinger ask Goss to resign. 
Don Canham, who held Goss' job for two decades, was saddened by the news. 
'Tm sick about it," Canham said. "He was an outstanding individual. a great guy. Not to have at least live years [on the job] is not the way Michigan operates." 
Goss has also been criticized by some of the university's regents for a budget deficit last year. lie was placed under close scrutiny by the administration after a $2.8 million budget deficit was revealed last June. sources have said. 
Last weekend The Ann Arbor News reported sourcAs as saying Bollinger would likely not pic-k a permanent replacement until near thA end of the school year in May and that the next athletic director would not necessarily have strong ties to the univer­sity. 

ninth athletic director. the--------------, 
fourth in 10 years, and the first African American to hold the job. 
The Detroit News and The Ann Arbor News reported in today's editions that Goss' departure comes after he angered Bollinger by not telling him of an NCAA probe of the eligibility of Wolverines frnshman basketball player Jamal Ci:.awford. Bollinger refused to comment on those reports today. 
The NCAA last week sus­p1rndP-d Crawford. the team's leading scorer, for six games for his living arrangements while in high school. 
Friday and Saturday, 
DAYTONA BEACfl
a . 
J'Q(l{v r 
~ 
~ 
Daytona Beach Resort 
INO(ONf!IEHECENl!i
se900
!>.rices sbullnq t.l per,oom 
per night
Vahd3/12l001hrough3/31l00 __ basedon1-4people 
800-654-6216 
Visit us 1i www.d1yton1beuhrewrl.com or www.dlscounlbrnk.com 

February 18 & 19 at 8pm 
Sunday, 

February 20 at 2:30 pm 
Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin Auditorium 
'•·.. 

For ticket infonnation contact the Saint Mary's Box Office LJ"'-11.-.1.11'1 
NHL 
Hall of Farner Abel dies at 81 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 
Hockey's famed "Production Line" has lost its sparkplug. 
llall of' ramer Sid Abel. who centered Detroit's high-scor­ing line between Gordie Howe and Ted Lindsav. and later coached the Hed ·wings to the Stanley Cup Finals four times, died Tuesday at age 81. 
The cause of death was 
heart failure, said his daugh­ter-in-law, Karin Abel. Lindsay's wife. Joanne, said Abel had also battled cancer and emphysr,ma. and undiir­went hip surgery. 
The Production Line was the NIIL's premier offensive jug­gernaut that made Detroit the first ol'the league's great post­war dynasties. With Abel con­tering llow1~ and Lindsay, the Red Wings won the first four of their league-record seven consecutive regular-season 
titles and three Stanley Cups. 
"We instinctively knew where t!rn opposition was," said Lindsay, 74. "We Just understood each other. We knew where to go, so we con­sequently were efficient." 
Abel was a player, general manager. coach and broad­caster in his 32 years in the Hed Wings organization. 
Abel began his NIIL career as the leam's center in 1938 in Detroit, spending nine full seasons and parts of' three others with the Red Wings. "".ith two years of military _ser-. vice. lie w_as named ~ap!am of 
the team 111 the 1942-43 secJ..:__ son_ at age ~4. and held that po~1t10n ~nt1l he was s~Id to Chicago alter the 1951-52 sea­
son. 
Howe said Abel was a men­
"/ learned a lot from him from just listening. When I was around Sid, that's the way it was. He was our r:aptain and leader ... he won in every aspect ofthe game. 
Gordie Howe 
tor to all the younger players. 
"I learnod a lot Crom him from just listening," he said. "When I was around Sid, that's the way it was. He was 
our captain and Ieader ... 11e won in every aspect of the game." With Abel. the Hr,d Wings won the Stanley Cup in 1IJ43, 1950 and 1952. He accumulated 472 points in 613 career games and ranks No. 11 in all-time team scoring for the Hed Wings. Nicknamed "Boot Nose," Abel had a league-high 28 goals in 1948-49, when h<l won the Hart Trophy as the NHL's most valuable player. The next season, he scored a personal high 34 goals and 69 points. That year, Lindsay led the NIIL in scoring with Abel and Howe finishing second d th' d 1· 1 I th
an ir , respec 1ve y. n c playoffs. they led netroit to a Stanley Cup championship over the New York Hangers. But there was more to Abel than just offense. "People don't realize how rough he w~s.'.' Howe told The Canadian Press. "I got into a fight with Rocket Hichard one time and Sid stuck his nose in. "Today. if you called some­
one what Sid called nocket. 
you'd get called up before a 
judge. Sid was leaning 
towards Rocket and Hocket 
bopped him in the nose. When 
Rocket hit him. Sid said. 
'You've got to be tired.' and 
took him on. I couldn't help 
but laugh. Afterwards, Sid told 
me, 'llell, if you tire them out, 
I'll fight anybody."' 
But he was not as rough a 
player as linemates Howe and 
Lindsay. and totaled just 79 
penalty minutes for his f~ntire 
career. 
Abel left-Detroit in 1952 to 
become lhe player-coach of 
the Chicago Blackhawks for 
two seasons. I-le then retired 
as a player but returnP-d to 
Oetroit as coach in 1957 and ·remained there until 1970. 
During his years as Hed 
Wings' 1·oach, Abel amass!'d a 
mediocre 340-339-132 rnf'.Ord. 
reaching the playoffs flight 
times but never winning a 
Stanley Cup. 
Abel later servP.d as 
Detroit's general manager. 
resigning in the 1970-71 sea­
son amid a dispute with Ned 
Harkness, the club's rookie 
head coach. 
The following season, Abel 
was coach of the St. Louis 
Blues f'or 10 games (3-6-1). lie 
als<i coached the 1975-7& 
Kansas Citv Scouts for three 
losses. That franchise later 
moved to Colorado and finally, 
New Jersey. 
Abel returned to the Bed 
Wings again in 1976-7 7 as an 
analvst on the team's radio 
and television broadcasts. 
Red Wings captain &.f..!:JVe Yzerman remembered getting 
advice from Abel, who was a broaJcaster when he joined thP team in 1983. 

ND SWING CLUB 

2000 Spring Semester Itinerary 
February 9th -Beginning Lindy February 16th -Beginning Lindy February 23rd -Intermediate Lindy Part I March 1st -Intermediate Lindy Part I March 8th -Midterms ( No Lessons ) March 22nd -Intermediate Lindy Part II March 29th -Intermediate Lindy Part II 
Coming in April theSHAG All Club trip to a Chicago Swing Club 
All are welcome to attend, as skill, coordination and dancing 
experience are not required. Lessons are held every Wednesday from 8:30 -10:00 in Room 301 ofthe Rockne Memorial at a cost of$2 I person. After lessons there will be ample time to let your feet fly free and dance to your hearts content. 
Ifyou would like to be added to our e-mail list or want more information about the Notre Dame Swing Club visit our website: www.nd.edu/-swing 
I--=-===--=--=-=-===-=--===-=-=-===--========-':• 
I' 

Wednesday, February 9, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

,.. .. .. rt::.J 'Ira 
:-,J . . ·· ~· ....... '"~.1)r 
. a I ,. . -.. . . -. -. .. .--··; ;~-­
•ycrJJr1y yot/:£12
,-.,·· " 
' r:· ' ' ' 
tir1g .;· rlrJEJ.fl 
r) . I 
CIC{Ier ·1r1rJLJ§i: 
INVEST WITH AMEiHTRADE AND ::k_­
. WE'LL MEET YOU HALFWAY. 
(____In_t_e_r_n_e_t_&_N_e_w_M_e_d_ia___J 
Search 1or insider ,::ompany protll..-s and message boards 
JJUMP TrJ O_THER C:HANNE:LS jj .. GO 
NtwS 


eon s 
op on SO ind 
,29~ messages to read 
,,,~<-1r.1·,r-:', t~i,:..-~-i~,.j1.1 8.:-.;:~ 
Featured Messages 
1/27,00 -lr~:2:t:_..,1J ti~t··r./•=:\?(.'I.".! I ,got a call from them ,ecentiy in an E:rtoit to 1e-cruit me for d position 11-i.at I w..s riot int,e}ested 1n What...., !.:.~.:i'; 
1/27/IJO -_?!'Ii/.:;~-•?. ..: .• i ;,.!• ',_/,),_::,:_;1 ·,;: Uriless:voutfather ,~an meeHhe speed of delivery, customer serv1et!, ari.:J price o1 larger co1po1.1ti,ms al1eady . :r,,;F, 
Newsstand . More 
F1,.rl ~-~!Y1D<>fP• -Covers-the latest busmes:s: niel.Mi and trends, I-e.ading•edge e.n1:rep1en~•Jrs, arid of-course, the fastest 
Professional Training • More 
·:_~'.-__.;; -<'· _...~·:· ·r·. · ,;_~ ·~-~: .. • _ =~ •XP~--:·.:..;:t: _::"•J?!.., ~f-...:-r,t".3ti,:::r-• Th-is 
course help manageis: at all l@vels.ke-cp daily <lecisions an<l actions cons:iste.n1: witl-i the long-te1m strategic process. 
we have ?14.265 jobs posted by 20,!1ll8 
employers 
Job Seekers > fr:1\:..-::1, -JOB:; 
'' 

page] 8 The Observt:r . SPORTS Wednesday, February 9, 2000 
NFL 

Thomas dies of heart attack 
Associated Press 

MIA\fI 
!\FL star· Derrick Thomas diPd today in a hospital where he was being treated for injuries from a car crash that left him paralyzed from the chest down. 
Tho Kansas City Chiefs said he died of a heart attack. Jackson Memorial Hospital called it "cardio-respiratory arrest," and doctors were expected tu elabo­rate later in the dav. 
Team president Carl Peterson said he was with the 33-year­old linebacker Mondav. 
"He was upbeat. he was posi­tivP. he was DPrrick." a tearful Peterson, wearing a button with Thomas' No. 58, said from Arrowhead Stadium in Kansas City. 
"He was in a wheelchair.... I said ·son, you'rll mobile. Ho said, 'Father, I am. I've got wheels."' 
Thomas was injured Jan. 23 when the speeding car he vrns driving flipped on an icy road. A friend was killed in the crash. 
Thomas. a nine-time Pro Bowl player and one of the game's most feared pass rushers, had been heading to the Kansas City airport with two companions to fly to St. Louis for the NFC title game. 
Thomas was one of the most popular athletes in Kansas City. and Peterson called the death a "devastating tragedy." 
"Derrick Thomas leaves a tremendously positive legacy that will permanently enrich everyone whose life he touched," NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue said. 
Flags were lowered to half staff at Arrowhead Stadium. The Missouri Legislature paused for a moment of silence. Thomas' death was announced by Bill Kenney, a state senator and former Chiefs quarterback. 
"Derrick Thomas was a true hero." said Kenney, who urged lawmakers to support a bill for spinal cord research in \tissouri. 
Thomas broke his spine and neck in the crash and was t1own to Miami, his hometown, for surgery and rehabilitation. 
Doctors decompressed his spinal cord and stabilized the spinal column with screws, rods and hooks and implant bonf' grafts from Thomas· hip. 
The hospital is the home of the ~liami Project to Cure Paralysis, the world's largest spinal cord injury research cen­ter, and its surgeons have oper­ated on race r.ar driver Emerson Fittipaldi and other athletes. 
Thomas and passenger Michael Tellis, 49, of Kansas City. Kan., were not wearing scat belts and were thrown from the car, police said. Tellis was killf'd instantlv and a third passenger who was wearing his seat belt was treated and released. 
"Our entire family has lost our loved one, so we greatly sympa­thize with Derrick Thomas's upon his passing," Tellis' family said today. 
A clearly shaken Chiefs coach Gunther Cunningham recalled telephoning Thomas from the Pro Bowl, after seeing several players and fans honoring the linebacker by wearing his num­ber. 
"Derrick said, ·coach, be strong.· He never told me how strong I needed to be," Cunningham said. 
The coach said that after a game, Thomas would always walk across the field "with a smile on his face -not because the Chiefs won, but because that's the way he was. And that's the way I'll always remember him." 
Thomas holds the NFL one­game record of seven sacks and ranks ninth on the career list. His seven sacks against Seattle in 1990 came on Veterans Day. He dedicated his effort to his father, an Air Force pilot killed in Vietnam in Operation Linebacker II. 
"He had so much love for the 

game, for his teammates and for 
our town.... A light has gone 
out," Peterson said. 

ON NATIONAL TOUR -PERFORMED BY THE ACTING COMPANY . 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2000 • 7:30 p.m. SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE • O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
Fo~ ticket i~formation contact the M'g=~
Saint Marys box office 284-4626 ~~:::l.t.. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Players' association helps Rocker 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
With historv on its side the players' a;sociation · on Wednesday will attempt to ovf'rturn John Rocker's sus­pension for offon­sive com­m e n t s against homosexu­a l s , minoriti.es and for­eigners. 
Baseball commis­sioner Bud Selig banned Rocker until May 1, saying the Atlanta Braves' top reliever "offend­ed prar,tically every element of society" with his comments in a December issue of Sports Illustrated. 
The players' association quickly appealed the deci­sion, setting up the hearing in !\cw York before Shyam Das, baseball's new arbitra­tor. 
Das will hear testi?nony from Selig and Braves presi­dent Stan Kasten. Gene Orza, the union's chief lawyer, will argue on Rocker's behalf, and union head Donald Fehr is expected to testify on past suspensions. 
Rocker will attend the hearing, but it's unclear if he'll be asked to testify. I-le told Sports Illustrated in December that he would never play for a New York team because he didn't want 

to ride a subway train "next to some queer with AIDS," He also mocked fornigners and called a black teammate a "fat monkey." 
Time and time again, the players' association has con­vinced arbitrators to reduce or overturn suspensions imposed by baseball. 
In 1981. St. Louis shortstop Garry Templeton was sus­pended and fined $!:i,000 after making a series of' obscene gestures toward heckling fans at Busch Stadium, Two days later. an arbitrator ruled the suspen­sion should be lifted when Templeton checked into a hospital for treatment of depression. 
In 1992, Yankees pitcher Steve Howe was suspended for life after pleading guilty to attempting to buy a gram of cocaine. An arbitrator ended the suspension later that year. saying Howe had attention deficit disorder. 
Minus Rocker, the Braves 
are holding a pre-spring 
training pitching camp at 
Turner Field. 
Kerry Ligtenberg, who held 
the closer's job in 1998 and is 
trying to come back from an 
elbow injury that kept him 
out all of last season, hopes 
the Rocker situation will be 
settled quickly. 
"It's a big distraction for 
the team," Ligtenberg said Tuesday, "We need to get this resolved sooner rather than later, If we push it to the side and bring it up two months later,"it's not going to be any better. We need to deal with 
John us a team and go from there." 
For now, the Rruves are facing the possibility of head­ing to Florida next week without tho pitcher who saved 38 games last season, one short of the franchise record, 
Selig's suspension covers all 45 days of spring training and the first 28 days of the season, He also fined nocker $20,000 and ordered him to undergo sensitivity training. 
There's no indication how quickly the arbitrator might rule, but the union will likely ask for a decision by the start of spring training. The Braves· pitchers and catchers n~port to camp at Kissimmee. Fla., on Feb, 17. 
Richard Moss, the associa­tion's top lawyer for 11 years, predicted last week that Rocker's punishment is likely to br, redur,ed. 
"For the r,ommissioner's office to just do something without consulting the play­ers association. without con­sulting Hocker and without reaching agreement on what was acceptable to everybody was kind of stupid," Moss said. 
According to research by the players' association and the commissioner's office. this is the first time a player was disciplined for speech since 1938. New York Yankees outfielder Juke Powell was suspended for 10 days by commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis for disparaging blacks on a radio1 interview. 



AUDITIONS 

For the Summer Production of William Shakespeare's 
I 

Taught in the Washington Hall Theater, this course is based on the premise that Shakespeare's plays are best understood as being both Literary texts and Theatrical scripts. 
The course starts June 19th and ends August 6th 

Students will be admitted by audition only. and will be granted full tuition Scholarships for the 6 credit hour course. Train, and gain practical theatrical experience by working and performing alongside established professional actors, directors, and a profession­al production staff. 
Students admitted to this course become cast members in the inaugural production of what will become 
-The Annual Summer Shakespeare Festival at Notre Dame-
Open Auditions in the CSC Sunday, Feb. 13th from 12:30 PM to 3:00 PM Call Backs in the CSC Monday, FEB. 14th from 7:00 PM to 9:30 PM 
.....PLEASE PREPARE 2 SHORT PIECES OF SHAKESPEARE (1COMIC, 1 DRAMATIC) AUDITION TIME 4 MINUTES TOTAL FOR MORE INFO. CONTACT PROF. PAUL RATHBURN (1-5069) 

Wednesday, February 9, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Rodman proves he can get job done 
A,sociated Press 
DALIAS 

From wrestling lO o.cting to gr,tting arrPsted. DPnnis l{odman has don£' a lot since his last NBA game 10 months ago. Playing bas­k I' t b a 11, 
1t hownvor. 
\\asn't high 
on his things-to-do list. 
Yd Oil 
TuPsday H 1) d 111 an 
Rodman 

showed his 1ww Dallas Mav1•rkks tPan1111at1•s that. dPspitP tlw layoff. lw rnn still rpbound and d1•1'Pnd. which is p:,,.artly \1hal h(''s bn,~n hin•d Lo do. 
"lie walkPd into our prnctkt' and just provnd that h1• hnows how to play -wlwn to SPL pirks, whPn to mov1• tlw ball." coar h-g<' 1w ra I 111 ,l nag<' 1· l>tJ n NPlson said. "ltP was VP!'\' imprnssiv<' 1:onsidnring 11;, hasn't play1\d for a ynar." 
Tlir• 1·u1-rPnllv blondt'-hairrd 
l'orward will g-<'l his f'irst n~al 
LPsl WPdm·sday night al homn 
against s,,atlle. Hodman won't 
start. but he's liknly to play 
about 15 minutPs. 
"I think it'll bP a great oppor­tunity tll giv1· th,, pnople in Dallas sonw Pxdtnment and it's a g1·pal opportunity to prove a illt of' pPople wrong," said Hodman. who had to SPtllP !'or signing with his honwtown tnam after no r.ontender was wi!ling to take a chance on him. 
Although Hodman grew up in Da!las and still has familv and l'riends in the area.· he's changed more than just his hair color since thfl last time he called the city home. 
Uack llrnn, liodman was a skinny teon-ager who didn't play high school basketball and onro worked as a janitor al Dallas-Fort Worth lnt1·rnational Airport. 
Now. he's a 38-year-old multi­millionaire known as much for outrageous antics such as rross­drnssin g and multiple body pi<~rcings as for winning seven rPbounding titles and five NRA championships. 
"I don't thinh the hom<'lown part has any affect on my play or anything about Dennis Hudman," he said. "I just go out thPr<' to have a good time. I work hard and I give people what Llwv want." 
Hodma-n playrd 23 ganws f'or thl' l.os Angoles Lakers last F(,bruary through April. then was cut wlwn tram of'fir.ials ran out of' patience with his high­maintenancr lifostyle. 
!IP yearned to return to the Lakers th is season because he wanted to play for their now coach, Phi! Jackson. who kept Rodman on a long leash in Chicago. But the team wasn't interested. Neithor was anyono else. 
When the long-suffering MavcJricks began wooing him a fpw wPeks ago, it soemed like thr,y had nothing to lose and plenty of free publicity to gain. 
IJut Dallas has won eight of its last 10, the tram's hottest streak since Jason Kidd's rookie season five years ago. Now, adding Rodman's volatile personality could threaten whatever ohem­istry the Mavericks have going, and he's always one skippPd practice or kicked cameraman from bncoming a major distrac­tion. 
"We've just got to hope he can help us on the r.ourt and be happy with that." All-Star ~wingman Michael Finley said. 
An unwritlen part of Rudrnan's bargain-basement deal is that he can pedal instead of practice, something Nelson insists the other players don't mind. 
But there was no stationary bicycle parhed alongside the practict> court Tuesday as Rodman partidpated in 3-on-3, 4-un-4 and 5-on-5 drills. Nelson said Rodman would rontinue practicing until he's comfortable playing alongside his new team­mates. 
The workout was closed to the media. When it opened. Rodman shot free throws at one end of the court with assistant coa('.h Kiki Vandeweghe. He hit about 20 in a row at one point. but also had a stretch of four misses in five tries. 
Because offense is so little of Rodman's game, getting the rust off should be easier for him than someone who relies on touch passes or long-range jumpers. 
page 19 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
NCAA rules St. John's Barkely ineligible 
received preferential treat­
Associued Press 
ment because he is an athlete or if it constituted possible
NEW YORK 
payback for when he turns
St. John's sophomore guard 
professional.
Erick Barkley was ruled ineli­
St. John's athletic director
gible for three games by the 
Ed Manetta Jr. said the
NCM on Tuesday for a rules 
school is appealing to the
violation. 
NCAA's Division I Sub­
The srhool is appealing. 
Committee on Student-Athlete
Barkley. who sat out last 
Rein-state­
Saturday's 59-58 
ment andvictory over 
"We're disappoint­expects a rul­
Boston College. 
ing by Friday. 
will miss Tuesdav ed and thing the 
"We're dis­
ni.ght's game a·t 
ruling is unfortu-appointed and
Providence and 
n ale. We appealed think the rul­
Saturday's home 
ing is unfortu­
game against immediately and 
n a t e . " 
Villanova. The 
that·s the process Manetta said. 
next game he will 
we're in right now "We appealed
be eligible for is 
immediately
Feb. 15, at and that started 
and that's the
.Boston College. 
Saturday." process we're
The violation in right now was exchanging 
and that start­
cars with a fami­Ed Manetta Jr. 
ed Saturday.
lv friend, two St. John's athletic 
We have
s"ou rces familiar 
director moved on to
with the case 
the next com­
have told The mittee in the
Associated Press. 
process and are hoping for a
Barkley traded his late ruling from it by late
model Jeep Cherokee for a 
Thursday or Friday morn­bigger but older Ford 
ing."
Expedition that belongs to a On Sunday, Manetta said hefamily friend, said a source 
expected feedback from the
close to Barkley and another NCAA the next day. Thewith knowledge of the matter, school was asked for further
both speaking on condition clarification regarding the
they not be identified. 
case Monday and the ruling ,.. 
The exchange would violate came down Tuesday.
NCAA rules if Barkley 
t J 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 9, 2000 
Fox 
continued from page 24 

bP established that a familv friend ­someone like your Uncle John or your 
trusted next dour neighbor -was help­ing you look out for your future after col­lege basketball, what's wrong with that'? 
lfyuu're nut an athlete, companies come' right on campus in (gasp!) broad daylight and try to convince you to sign with them when you get out of r,ollege. I've rven heard of seniors getting job offers (oh no!) during their senior year and signing to work with that company while they'rp still students. 
or course. the NCAA was set up tu pro­tect the players from peoplP banging down their doors. trying to manipulate them and trying to manipulatf' amatPur sports with money. Indeed, this is a noble goal and one for which the NCAA does serve a useful purpose. 
However. we're not talking about point-shuving or giving guys a sack filled-with monev 
Heck. l want to be a professional sports writer someday. What if. for some reason. Troy Murphy and I order a pizza. and when it comes. he realizes he doesn't have enough cash on him to split thfl $10 tab. So I sav, "Don't worrv about it, you can get the 11.ext one." and ·pay for his pizza. 
\m I a "frh;nd of the program" now? 
Am I helping to secure my sports-writ­ing future by buying Troy Murphy pizza so he will be inclined to do an interview with me as opposed to someone else in a few years? 
You may laugh. but the NCAA would probably say yes and slap Murphy with a suspension for taking an "extra benefit," just as a restaurant giving a player a rnmplimentary meal is one of these deadlv sins. 
So t~J the NCAA: Don't punish friends for looking out for friends or people for doing what they please with their own property. Use some common sense and stop actions that threaten the integrity of the game and the players. 
If you forget who you're there to serve. that's the true violation of the agree­ment. 
The views expressed in this column are 
those of the author and not 

necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
PAID SUMMER INTERNSHIPS! 
.... 
Gain invaluable experience in employee benefils 
and compensation-a field exploding with 
opportunities. The I.F. lnlerns program offers 
paid inlernship experience and incredible 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Belles to take on conference rival Albion 
By KATIE MCVOY 
Spoms Writer 
The Saint Marv's basketball team hopes that injury· and illness will not prevent a win against Albion College tonight. 
"The injuries and illness during the last week should not be a big problem during the game." sophomore center Kelly Hoberts said. "We're hoping we can still go uut and play our best." 
During thr past werk of practice. the Belles have been hit hard with injury and illness. Starting l'orward Kristen Matha, is the Belles' biggest worry. She left last Saturday's game with a leg injury. but has been given the go­ahead to play. 
In addition to Matha's injury. Saint Mary's has been short three players during this WPP.k's practices. Hobt>rts has been out with an injury, and sophomore guard Anne Blair and sophomore center Knlly Jones have been ill. All three senm to have recov­ered and the Belles hope they ran play hard in tonight's game. 
"We want to go out there, suck it up and play hard for 40 minutes," Hoberts 
said. 
Despite the problems they faced in practice this week, the Bdles say they are confident that they can beat the Britons. 
"We think we have a really good shot." Jones said. "All we have to do is play hard and keep up the intensity." 
The Belles am looking f'or the victory to keep team motivation high. 
"A win against Albion would be very big," Roberts said. "Another victory would boost our confidence. The more wins we have the more confident the team will be." 
ThP win would also help the Belles in the MIM rankings. The Britons are in sixth place in the MIM with a league record of 5-8 and an overall record of 10-11. They are coming off of a 70-43 loss to first-ranked !lope College this past Saturday. Saint Mary's is in eighth place in the MIA/\ with a league record of 2-11, two places behind Albion. 
"A win tomorrow would help our MIAA rankings," Hoberts said. "We need to start winning against other conforence teams. and winning against Albion would be a big stnp." 
Tonight's contest should provn to be a close one. Saint Mary's and Albion are evenly matched teams. The Belles score 54 points per game on average, while Albion scores 57, and both teams average around 37 rebounds a 
game. 
The last time Saint Mary's and Albion met the Britons were victorious, winning 65-52. 
"The last time we played Albion it came down to the last five minutes of the game," Jones said. "They picked up the intensity and we lost the moti­vation. We have been working on keeping the intensity, however. and we want to keep it up throughout all of tonight's game." 
Hebounding will continue to be key to the Bellr.s. During the two games that Saint Mary's won. the team con­trolled the rebound and is looking to do the same against Albion. 
"We arc going to have to dominate the boards and keep the turnovers down," .Jones said. "We match up in size with Albion so it's going to come down to our skill." 
The BnllPs face the Britons at 7:30 p.rn. in Angela Alhletic Facility. 
TRY 
ITALIAN 
OUR NEW (HICK'N 
CRISP 
FOR (LET'S JUST 
·o.· 
.:_· .. 
. . 
THE NEW ITALIAN CHICK'N You don't have to travel far to enjoy a little taste of Italy. Introducing the delicious
99¢ 
Italian Chick'n Cnsp sandwich at BURGER KING"' restaurants. Tender, juicy, all-white-meat chicken topped with mozzarella cheese and zesty marinara sauce. Right now just 99(1:. The Huddle. LaFortune Student Center Price and participation may vary 
ONLY 
SAY THE 
99¢. 
EXCHANGE 
RATE 
IS IN YOUR FAVOR,) 
.::f.:'.?:\:::/-:::·?:(-:·:... ~!E}~t~~:::.
,:::-?<l:·..g:_.-..:;:·.::_::0:A=.=.=o·:-.:•::. t-:¥.:-:.­
:--. ----· B: _: :/1:.,·.-::.·::·:i--t•.:::. ·.:c::-Y:
:_ :.'. ::·: ~::(·."::: ·:_:: :_:;:\-<:\·:: 
. .. . . ..:. .:-:•.-. 


-------------7 
. . 

Wednesday, February 9, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
W. B-ball 
continued from page 24 
of its lirst 14 ganws. the second bPst start in school history. Sine!' tlH'n, thP Panthers hav<' struggled to a 4-(1 Big Easl 
n•rnrd. lnrluded in thr• recPnt slump was an 88-36 loss to Connnctic:ul. Their rf'cord is dr•rPiving though, with live of thl'ir lw;sr\s coming against top 20 I.cams. 
"Thuy have sonH' goud play­Prs." IU lr,y said. "Tlrny ·rn a guard orinntcd tNtm with sonw good shooters... 
l'iltsburgh is IP<l by i'rPshman Mandy YVittc•nmyl'r. thP Big liast rn-Rookic• of tlH' \Vnek along with Notn• Dam1o's Alida 
Hatav. WittPnmyPr, a 6-f'oot-2 
l'orw;mJ 1Lverag1\s a tl~am-high 
11.8 points and 8.0 rebounds p<'r ganw. llr•r SPVl'll doubl<'­doublPs on Llw s1iason !Pad tlw conff'rPnrc In tlH'. Panthers· pnwious nin<' ganl<'s, slw has 
six doubh•-doubles. 
"Shc•'s a good all-around µlayPr," Hiley said, n•forring to \Yilli•nmycr. "Slw d1wsn't posl up too mU('h but shP has a good .i~•m~er from around the foul !me. 
The freshman class has sparked the Panthers. account­ing for 49 percent of the tnam's scoring. Other firsL year players include reserve Brooke Stewart, the team's third lead­ing scorer with 7.9 points per 
game.  point  guard  LainP  
Sclwvn and forward  Dallas  
\'Villiims.  
Junior  shooting  guard  

Monique Toney is second on the team with 9.7 points per game. Hr,r 5.4 assists per game runk her fourth in the confer-
1'.llCC. 

Soven Panthrrs average over 
1 :i minutes pH game with \Vittenmypr's 29.:1 average l<·ading the team. They arc averaging 64.G points per gam1', whil<' allowing 62.:l. 
\i\'hile their balanced scoring attack has received most of the attt'ntion, tlw Irish defense has held 8 straight opponents under 60 points. They held Pitt to 37 percent shooting in their last rntHiLing.. 
Wt>dnesday's game marks tlrn eighth meeting between tlw teams, with the Irish own­ing a 7-0 advantage. 
PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER. 

LIZ lANGfThe Observer Center Ruth, Riley shoots over the B.C. defense in the Irish win Saturday. The Irish take on the Panthers tonight. 
-
M. B-ball 
continued from page 24 
(32 percent) from 3-point land, while Villanova con­verted 11-of-26 (42 per­cent) shots from behind the arc. 
Notre Dame dropped both confernncA games on the road trip and now finds itself back in the middle of the pack in the Big East standings. 
The Irish are now 0-7 against the Wildcats since joining the conference five years ago. Villanova is the only team Notre Dame has yel to beat in conference play. 
The road will not get any easier for the Irish as the season winds down. 
Notre Dame hosts defending national cham­pion Connecticut on Saturday and then plays the top threA ttiams in the conference over the next four games. Two of those games are on the road. 
Notre Dame must break out of its slump and make a run down the stretch if it has any hope of making the NCAA Tournament.. 
Got Sports? 
Call 1-4543. 


HOMES FOR RENT 


-Domus Properties has two, five, and seven bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes ­-Maintenance staff on call 


Available for the 2000/2001 school year 
.,.,._ 

BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 3 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)27 4-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)67 4-2572 
,~~rr:
~.,...,-;•, -· ..
,;•· ' . 
s. Pi~tsburgb .. . -:'.. 
...men set a
. . J!Jy~e ·~~.nt~Gl:t: 
rl ]6:.game
The lstl50 fansrer;eive tree:;·
ALL SllJOENTSAD. ' . \ "• 
streak 



·page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 9, 2000 
-
MEN'S TENNIS 

Sachire leads Irish in upset over No. 18 Wildcats 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Sporrs Wnter· 

Irish r.aptain and All-American 
Rvan Sachire entPrnd an invinci­
ble zone during yesterday's 
matrh against 18th-ranked 
KPnturkv. and thP rest of tlrn 
tPam ro·1 lowPd as tlw Irish 
stormed away with a 5-2 upsl'l 
over one of the nation's touglwst 
teams. 

The matchup kickt>d into.high 
gear for the Irish. who took the 
doub!Ps point with wins in the 
number two and thrP<' spots. 
Sachire and senior Trent Miller 
teamed together to drd'eat 
Kentucky's doubles duo of Carlos 
Drada and Hrwen Stephens. 
while sophomores Casey Smith 
and JamPs MalhamP topped Edo 
Bawono and Johan Grunditz. 
With thP doublPs point already 
awarded, the Irish pair of sopho­
mores Javier· Taborga and 
Aaron Talarico did not romplete 
their match against KPntucky's 
Johan Hesoun and Gustav 
Pousette. Talarico gave the Irish 
a quick win at 11umber four sin­
gles. blowing away Bawono of 
Kentucky 6-1. 6-0. Fourteenth­
ranked Sachire followed 
Talarico's lead by knocking off 
9th-ranked Drada 6-1. 6-3, 
improving his singles record to 
16-6. . "Aaron Talarico was really on 
his game today," Irish coach Bob 
Bayliss said. "And Ryan had an 
unbelievable match. Drada is in 
the top 10 in the country." 
The top match, pitting Sachire 
against Drada, was expected to 
be a close battle, but Sachirn 
showed no weaknesses through­
out the entire match and did not 
allow Drada to steal away his 
momentum. He sprang out to an 
early lead, going up 5-0 in the 
first set with an impressive 
serve-and-volley style of play 
that consistently forced Drada to abandon his otfonsive attack. 
Sachire never looked back, sufforating the Kentucky south­paw with an aggression that has locked up sernrnl key wins for the senior this season. 
Aftt'r Talarico and Sachire added two morn points for Notrn Danw, thP match was still not secun' under tile Notrn Dame's bdt Tim rmnaining four singles mat<·hcs in progress looked to be rlosn. but '.'Jotrc Dame freshman Brian Farrnll snuck away with a crurial victory against Kentucky's Reven Stnphens that lead to an Irish win, improving their dual-match record to 3-2. 
Farrell bcr:ame awarn of the importance of his match as the ho1rn~ crowd began to gather in the stands and show their sup­port. Aller securing the first set 6-2, Farrell, who was filling in for tht' injured Irish junior Matt Daly, had a match point at 6-5, but was shut out and forced to go to a tiebreaker. His power centered haseli1rn game did not desert him, but rather assisted him in running away with the tiebreaker by a score of 7-2. 
"[Farrnll] showed a lot of poise today," Bayliss said. "He stayed with what ho does best -solid beat flashy today." 
Showing the composure of an experienced collegiate player, Farrell did not crar,k under pres­sure, and his win proved to be the clincher for the Irish upset. After being swarmed by his team following his victory, Farrell rec­ognized the significance of his match. and had a permanent grin on his face. 
"I knew [the match] was of· some importance when everyone came to watch," Farrell said. 'Tm just happy I won." 
Following the climax of Farrell's win, the remaining sin­gles matches were decided by 

for Kentucky's first point. they are national contenders and Pousette rallied for a 6-7 (8-6), must be taken seriously. The vic­6-2. 7-6 (7-4) over sophomore tory also evened out the series Andrew Laflin at No. 5 singles. record between the Irish and the Smith defeated 48th-ranked Wildcats, making the tally 10-10­Hesoun 6-4, 3-6. 7-6 (10-8) for 1. the 5-2 final. "It was our best effort of the 
With the win, the Irish proved year," Bayliss said. 
°" CAtt11"4f 
JlffliorParmtWu~ Speml F(bffiA~ 17•21. 2000 
Come early; stay late, same price! 
Sacred Heart PartSh Center has rooms 
available for your parents. 
Weekend cost is $60.00 per parent. Whelher you stay Two, three. or four n91ts. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. 
For reservations, call 219-631-7512. 

"The family suggests tliat memorial contributions be made to the American 
tiebreakers to allow the Wildcats to get a head start on a long road trip home. 
Kentucky came away with two victories in the final three matches. 
Grunditz defeated Taborga 4­6, 6-4. 7-6 (7-4) at No. 3 singles 
American Heart ~ Association0~ 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 

Hearl Association." 
AMERIO\N HEART ASSOCW1ON MEMORIALS &TRIBUTES 
0
,,1.j'\Jt 
-
1-800-AHA-USAl 

This space provided as a public service ©1994 1997 Amencan He.art Assoc1atton 
.... 
..... 

Wednesday, February 9, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEH BEAM 
WHY ON E.Mrn 'wovL.O C..\\\NC, r>,_ $Gtl,)1KR 
1T lS~i il\c £5)£~(3El\lWD

'{w WMJT TO C./liTL~ 
60PtSS E\/ERV1'1\\ i!\E FVNDAMEWi-11.L RE/\SOl'J ~ Soo1RREL~ Ht.\JE f.\/ER fo Wl1Y AlJ'{ 1-'1~1.J 'WlU. F1',<.E
,---,,-;11lfll vP 10 ~ C-Hl>.1.l£N6E. 
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
.. 
beam.1@ndedu 



"Wow, that was close, eh Mike? ... Mike? 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 36 Set of Brit. 68 "Beowulf tomes beverage WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2000
1 Fields 38 Revises 69 Sentimental,
6 Mountaineer's CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS business partnerships are likely.
and then some 
worry 39 Pres. Wilson DAY: Mia Farrow, Carole King, 00000 held one Judith Light, Travis Tritt, Charles VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
1OLowly laborer 
DOWN Shaughnessy, Ernest Tubb, Alice Romantic encounters will develop
40 He married

14 So out, it's in Walker, Amber Valletta, Sandy Lyle through work or colleagues. Be re­
1 Paul's "Exodus" Pocahontas
again Happy Birthday: You will interact ceptive to your boss's suggestions.42 Ampersand role well with others this year. You must Minor infections may cause setbacks. 
15 Yorkshire riVefcc 2 Person who 
follower, pitch in and help organizations that 000
16 Be worthy of,, whistles
sometimes you believe in. You have plenty to LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Social 
-

17 Start of a quip 43 Vote in Vosges 3 Old verb ending offer and will be admired for your events will lead to new romantic 4 "_ you happy contributions. The more you experi­encounters. Your open and sophisti­
20 Whole lot 44 Soup holder 
now?" ence this year, the better. The possi­cated nature will attract members of 
21 Vintners' 
45 Quip, part 3 bilities are endless, and the more you the opposite sex. 000
5 Do some postal
offerings 49 Winter apples work take advantage of your options the SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 22 Herpetologists' more you'll accomplish. Your num­Avoid making extravagant purchases 
50 Mach I breakers 6 Steamy spots 
subjects bers: 7, 12, 24, 33, 39, 41 to please your lover or spending on 51 Where Akitas 7 Al Capp ARIES (March 21-April 19): unnecessary luxury items. Get sound
26 Herpetologist's 
originated adjective Superiors will appreciate your con­financial advice before you signsubject 
54 Logical intro? 8 High dudgeon tributions. Join groups that will bring any contracts or financial documents. 30 Quip, part 2 you in touch with people in a posi­000
56 End of the quip 9 Get-up-and-go 
tion to help you get ahead. 000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.

34 Like black/whlte 
64 Hero maker 10 Like some TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 21): Travel will lead to new adven­
issues 
deductions, with Involvement in groups or organiza­tures, but don't be surprised if your
65 Graf

35 Take the "ai, tions will be beneficial. You can meet journey costs you more than you bar­
66 Hooch holder 

plunge, so to 11 Rabbit individuals who will listen to your gained for. Friends may get on your speak 67 T. VA output ideas and contribute valuable input. nerves if you spend too much time
12 Siouan speaker 
Be discreet about personal matters. together. 00000

13 Takes home 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 18 WordPerfect 000 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Lux­Someone you live with will be company ury items will cost you dearly today. impossible to get along with. Don't J A Z Z S L A P I N D I A 19 Utah city Decisions made in haste will be try to deal with important issues or 
I S E E C U T E N E E D S 22 Lots of lots 59 PBS helper regretted. Don't jump to conclusions, make changes that will upset the and be cautious while traveling. apple cart. 00
B A R N A M O R V A L E S 23 Eclipse 60 Waitress at Mel's 
0000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): If
39 Groan causers 53 One-named

phenomenon 61 Luxurious CANCER (June 21-July 22): You you trust friends with your secrets,
40 Baba ingredient sports legend 

24 Oscar winner place? can get backing if you ask for favors. you can expect them to blow the for "Scent of a 41 Bonanza finds 55 Rubs out 62 Uncommon Don't hesitate to share your interests whistle. It is best not to depend on Woman" with those you would like to get to others. You can make the most head­
43 Some E.R. 57 Cause: Suffix sense 

25 Agitated state cases know better. Your added discipline way ifyou work alone. 0000
58 Go over 63 Shade of blue 
will help you complete projects. 00 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your

27 ''The Once and 44 Puccini soprano 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel for energy should be directed into mon­

Future King" 
46 Language family --------------business or pleasure will be eymaking ventures. Don't hesitate to 

novelist that includes Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
advaptageous due to the people you look into new jobs or careers. You 28 At deuce Finnish are available by touch-tone phone: will meet. Lasting relationships or should use your creative talent. 000 
29 Kind of trip 47 What "pneumo-" 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Birthday Baby: You are creative and imaginative. You like to discover new

i..:....:..iL..=..1..::..1..;;;;..i..;;..S R A V .........,.....,....,--1 31 Boastful talk means Annual subscriptions are available tor the 
things and will never back away from a challenge. You are empathetic, gener­

T I N C T A L A I P E A R 32 To boot 48 Pie-eyed best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
ous and affectionate. You will be a loyal friend and a devoted lover. S O O T Y B E I . L E Z R A 33 Worst 51 Carved gem years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
10 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web al http://observer.nd.edu/ 
---------------------------------------------------------------------~~~~­


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses_ Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address-----------~------­City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
' 
' 


Set for victory
...... 
All-American Ryan Sachire led the Irish to a 5-2 upset over the No. 18 Wildcats Tuesday. 
page 22

PORTS 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Wednesday, February 9, 2000 


NCAA needs a 
life 
Get a lifo. 

rt' rcould sit down and tell the collective body known as the NCAA thre,~ words. those would be thrm1. 
St. John's men·s head bas­ketball coach Mike Jarvis Sr. went a lit­tle more in dt'pth on Sundav: "I hope and pray I see the dav when there is no '\lCAA and we are guided by the values svstern with which we were brought up on. that
-we fight for everyday in this country ... Enough is enough. It's time for a change." 
What could cause a head coach to make such an uncharacteristic attack on the sport's governing body? 
A ludicrous suspension, that's what. 

SophomorP St. John's point guard Eric'k Barkley. tlw team's leading scorer ,\ith 
17.l points pe.r game. has to serve a three-game suspension because, in the words of 1ospn.rom writer Andy Katz. he took an "extra bf'nefit." 
This "extra benefit" amount­ed to him trading his Jeep Grand Cherokee to a familv friend he's known sinr,e high school in return for the friend's older Ford Expedition. No monev was involved. 
So let's· get this straight: Barkley and a friend each owned a used car. 
Apparently, each liked the other's r,ar more than he liked his own. So Barklev said some­thing to the effect (~f "Hey, even though your car's older than mine. I'd be willing to trade you because I want a bigger r:ar" 
And for that Erick Barkley needs to miss three of the · remaining eight ganrns. 
Sound dumb? It is. 

The NCAA's contention is that the friend could be acting as a11 agent f'or Barkley or that he got some sort of spe<'.ial privileges because he's an ath­lete. both violations of NCAA rules. Neith11r of these suspi­1;ions bas been wnfirmed. 
Furthermorn. even if it could 

see FOX/page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Wildcats hand Irish conference loss 
. Wildcats force 26 Irish turnovers en route to victory 
By BRIAN KESSLER Sports Editor 
Thn road hasn't been very 
kind to the NotrP Damf' bas­
kr.lball leam this season. 
Last night's gamn against 
Villanova at thn First Union 
Cr.ntr.r 1,vas no exci,pLion. 
Thr Irish l14-I0, 5-5) 
droppPd to 2-8 away l'rom the 
Joyrn CPnter af't<ir su!Tr,ring a 
86-69 loss 
to th c 
Wildcats 86 Wildcats 
(13-8, 4-5).
Irish 69 Villanova 
took a 37­
27 Lead at 
the break and pushed its lead 
to as many as 22 in the sec­
ond half. Backup point guard 
Jermaine Medley scored a 
r,areer-high 17 points and 
Gary Buchanan added 16 
points to help the Wildcats to 
their highest point total of the 
season. Brooks Sales finished 
with 11 points and 12 
rebounds. 
Villanova's aggressive man­
to-man defense forced 26 
turnovers and held Notre 
Dame standout Troy Murphy 
without a field goal in the 
second half'. 
Murphy, the nation's f'ourth 
leading scorer, finished just 
5-of-15 from the field and 
had 14 points along with 16 
rebounds. Matt Carroll led 
the Irish with 15 points in the 
second half and 17 !'or the 
game. David Graves was also 
5-of-15 shooting and finished 
with 11 points. 
The Irish made just 7-of-22 
see M. B-BALL/page 21 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
ND looks for record-breaking win over Pitt 

By TIM CASEY Sports Write. 
Notre Oame looks to break a sd10ol record for consecutive victories when it hosts Pittsburgh in a Big East con­ferr.nce game tonight at the Jovce Center. 
The fifth-ranked Irish (19-2, 10-0 Big East) have won 15 straight games, dating back to a 71-61 loss to Purdue on Dec. 
8. That mark tir,s the school record set in 1990-91. 
"We don't really dwell on the win streak," center Ruth Hiley said. "It's nice to be win­ning but we also know we've got to take il one game at a time." 
The Irish are coming off a 72-59 win over Boston College on Saturday afternoon. their 18th straight vir:tory at home. Hiley had a game-high 23 
points, including 11 in a  row  
in the second hall'.  
Junior  forward  Kelley  

Siemon, named co-Big East Player of the Week, added 11 points and a career-high 14 rebounds against the Eagles. 
"Kelley's been playing well," Riley said. "This year every­one's contributing and being more consistent." 
The two teams met on Jan. 
18. and the Irisb left Fitzgerald Fieldhouse with a 67-53 victory. Alicia Ratay tal­lied a ganrn-high 17 points, while Riley chipped in with 12 points and 14 rebounds. Gina Montesano. who missed all of last season after recovering from knee surgery. scored 10 points for the Panthers. In that game Notre Dame dominated the boards, hauling down 42 compared to Pittsburgh's 26. They also limited the Panthers to 37 percent shooting from the field. 
A year after posting an 8-19 record, Pittsburgh began the season on a tear, winning 11 
see W. B-BALL/page 21 

,r 
vs. Piusburgh SMC Saint Mary's vs, Maryland
Swimming/Diving ~J":1
Wednesday, 7 p.m. ~-,::::;:.,·· hiday, 5 p.m. 
MIAA Championship

SPORTS 
ATA 
v~. Albion vs. Nebraska-Omaha
Track & Field Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
SM ~ 
at Butler ''"'~

GLANCE • 
Friday-Saturday

I 
I
L 


