
Hype for the 'Huskers 
Student managers and players prepare fur the No. I '!Juskers. The Obserz1er has full analysis ofthe match-ups. 
Irish Insider 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 14 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Irish fans prepare campus, town for 'Husker's invasion 
. Pep rally moves to Stadium to accommodate expected crowd 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
News Editor 
Today's pep rally wilt be held in the stadi­um instead of the Jovce Center to accom­modate thP large u·owds expec:ted. said John Heisler: diredor of Sports [nformation. 
"Ess('ntially it's just because of the tremendous drmand that we expect to have !'or accPss. WP reservp, ·x· number of seats for students and other special guests. and that only leaves 4.000 seats for the general public," hf' said. "The amount or interest in this gamf' seemed to suggest that there will be 130.0001 or 40.000 people who want to come to the game.... We felt that we might be disappointing or upsetting more people than we would be making happy by having it indoors." 
Humors have been circulating that Nebraska fans purchased so many tickets for the 4 p.m. volleyball game that they 
see PEP RALLY/page 4 
•-• I IQ 



Scarce tickets send prices soaring, students scalping 
Editor's Nole: Some of the names in this article are pseudonyms. Names have been changed tn protect the stu­dents and alumni who risk losing their ticket prioileges for ticket scalping. 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY News Editor 
Students and alumni hoping to find cheap football tickets to Saturday's match-up between the Irish and the top-rankPd University of Nebraska may want to consider looking over the rain­bow. With onlinc auc:tion bids surpass­ing the $500 mark. tickets are selling for prices that make them literally worth their weight in gold. 
Though l\otre Dame does not expressly forbid the resale of tickets won by alumni in the annual lottery or of' student tickets upgraded to general admission seating. the University does not intend its roveted football tickets to be sold to the highest bidder. 
"TherP's no official statement that's been sent to alumni [on ticket resale]." said Jim Fraleigh, direct.or of Ticketing and Marketing. "Alumni are allowed to resell lheir tickr.ts for face value, hope­fully to other. a! umni." 
Students are permitted to resfdl upgraded general admission tic:kets, as 11rc for.ulty and staff. according to Fraleigh, who emphasized that sellers should only ask fnr the price printed on the ticket. 
"We have a program where we allow up to 300 students for each particular game (to upgrade!," he said, noting that the program was initiated at the request of' student government. "The purpose of that is for them to get fami­ly or friends into the game with them. It's not intended for a money making purpose." · 

Worth every penny 
Despite the University's intentions, several students upgraded tickets to this weekend's game expressly for turning a profit. 
"It was the financial opportunity of a · lifetime," said Paul Hastings, a Notre Dame senior whoJplans to sell his upgraded ticket thiS:,weekend. Hastings traded in his student ticket for a gener­al admission seat with three friends because the group believed they could command a better price if they were able to sell four seats together. 
"When we foundout the amount thev were going for. {'couldn't turn that down \Vith bills to,Jpay:" said Hastings, noting thal the sale-0f his ticket will cover the cost of1his year's season tickets with money to spare: 
Class of l 998 alum Jason McKenna also said that the amount buyers were willing to pay contributed to his deci­sion to sell. 
'Tm selling my tickets because I'm a [aw student and poor as hell. .. said McKenna. who sold the pair tickets he won in the alumni lotterv for $535. "The Nebraska tickets ar; paying for my airfare to the Stanford game." 
Sellers on eBay. like McKenna. were able to find a national audience of buy­ers willing to pay handsomely for their tickets, in large part because of the rich football history of Notre Dume. 
"I was willing to pay around $200 pPr ticket because it will likely be my only trip lo South Bend." said Nebraska fan Kris Covi of Omaha. ''I'll be honest -I don't like Notre Dame. But as a fan of college football and its history, of which Notre Dame played such a storied part, I am excited to visit the campus and the Stadium. Every college football fan should go there to check it off the list." 
That checkmark was worth $1,160 to Covi, who purchased one pair of tickets for $350 and four others for $810 from · Notre Dame alumni. Fellow Nebraska fan Joe Booth, also pf Omaha, paid $305 to a Notre Da.:m-e alum for his tickets to this weekend's event. 
"The tradition of these two teams is the,;reasori I'm willing to pay more," said Booth. "I want to step inside Notre [fame ·s stadium. I'm rooting for Nebraska." 
Cracking down 
Although Indiana has no anti-scalp­i n g laws. the sale of' tickets on University property is prohibited. said Rex Hakow, director of Securifv. Buyers and sellers who violate this pol­icy are subject to losing their tickets. 
"What we do is confiscate the tkkets, turn them back into the athletic department on Monday, and in some situations we issue the people a tres­pass loiter and ask them not to come back, depending on how cooperative they are," said Rakow. "If somebody is combative with officers. they're nppi.ng the chance oI getting arrested on the spot. Every case is different. but we·v~ done that in the past." 
Because the provJsion against selling is a Univ.ersity policy rathPr than a state law, most arrests are made for public intoxication or disorderly con­duct, according to Rakow. Persons transacting sales are not subject to any legal consequences. 
"Scalping is legal in the state of Indiana, but we enforce it on campus because we don't want it going on here," he said. "[Fansl who couldn't get tickets get upset when the see peo­ple with fists full of them." 
After security returns the tickets to the,, Ticket Office, officials may still warn ticket holders' that action can be taken if their tickets are traced in an illegal sale again, said Rakow. 
Fraleigh wanted to remind ticket­holders that tickets are subject to reg­ulation by the University at all times. 
"The owner of each ticket is the Univetsity itself. and the University reserves the right to revoke the tickets at any time for any reason," he said, noting that Notre Dame has revoked the ticket rights of two season ticket holders this y_ear for selling on eBay. 
In additfon to loss of ticket privileges, students face possible action fro1~ the Office of Residence Life for on-campu,s sales because engaging in strch sale~ violates University policy. 
"The resale of tickets isn't permitted bv University policy, so if [students] w"ere to do that they'd be Sll_bJ~.f,t to sanction." said Bill Kirk, vice president for Residence Life. noting that the p~r­ticular sanctions would be determined , by the circumstances in thejparticular c:ase. 
Jeff Shoup, director of Residence Life. explained potential consequences for students in more detail.· 
"There are all kinds of possibilitil:ls. 

-_·~-nmTS-/p~GJ 


Cheering Classy 

With two big games against Nebraska this weekend, The Obsenier encourages appropriate team support. 
Viewpoint . page 18 


Friday 

SEPTEMBER 8, 2000 
-
.,.,, 

. Notre Dame Security anticipates 91,000 tans on campus this weekend 


By MIKE CONNOLLY 
News Writer 
Notre ·oame Security and Police are pre­pared lo handle lhe hordes of 'Huskers descending on the c:ampus this weekend, said Rex Rakow. director of Security /Police. However, there will not be extra officers on campus this weekend. 
"Almost every police officer in the county will be on campus for the game," Rakow said. "We don't change the staff based on the opponent." 
While some reports predict up to 100,000 people will be on campus this weekend hop­ing for a seat in the 80.232-seat Notre Dame Stadium, Rakow estimates that 91,000 fans will actually show up. 
This larger crowd. however, will not exceed the amount of parking available. Rakow recommends that fans park on the north side of campus where there is "more parking than we ever need." 
Rakow expects about 11.000 fans to be left 
see FANS/page 4 

page 2 The ObJerver . INSIDE Friday, September 8, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Guillotine Gates 

$:rt .(,00 That's how much I paid l'or a book­storn parking space last Sunday. 
Why. you·rn wondnring, would I pay so much to park among all thP T-shirt-hunting. Hudy­idolizing campus visitors? Well. because, the gate man made nw. 
My f'rinnds and I Christine Kraly approached thll sm)mingly frirndly Main Gatn to cam­
11ssislanl

pus, bright, swnet-smclling 
flowers guarding the front. Managing nm bracing us. as if to say Editor 
"wnlconw to campus." We 
111us['v1\ h<'<'n hearing voices 
bncawrn the stern f'ace that popprd out of the 
Main (;atr. screamed Intruder' Intruder! 
A f'ull-vrar's tuition entitles each student lo hours of honwwork. cheaper football tickets and a dorm room. But you can't nvnn get on rampus to Pnjoy tlrnsr luxuries. 
l•:vl~ryonl' attending Notre Dame has played thr "pleasn let this work. I don't want to walk" game. lronirally. the ganrn has led us to com­mitting a sin. We arP forced to romp, up with stupid, unbrlinvab!P lies just to gPt to thP Basilica. It's the ultimate hypocrisy; we lie to gnt onto God's rarnpus. 
As far as the guards are concerned, the only time I ntwd to glit onto campus is when I'm picking up my grandmother f'rorn Health Services and I'm merting my cousin at my dorm bncausc she's a prospective from llungary ht)re to visit campus for the week. 
Snm<>ho\v, I think they're onto mP. 

In general. not all students wanting to get through those precious campus gates are look­ing to dd'anrn propPrly or steal Mary from atop tlw Dome. That day, for instance. we merely wanLPd Lo drnp off people at their dorms, then lt'avn. \Vo played tlrn game all wrong, though. We had no plan. We decided. f'oolishly. to just wing it and Sl~e what happPned. So at the last minute, we dt•cided a cousin was waiting for us at Md,linn 
Wn got our best innocent, poker tarns on. widened our smiles and got ready for action. As wn got rlosr.r to thr. guard gate, our palms started swnating and we whispered to our­selves. stay cool. slay cool. we're in. The car and gatP windows mr.t. our eyes locked with thP atlt1ndant's and all of a sudden our plan fell apart. Suddenly Llwre was a cousin, grand­motl111r ,L!ld sick f'rirnd in the story and Lim guard saw right through our dastardly scheme. Our jig was up. 
Tlw ominous traJlic gate came down before us like a guillotirw, cutting us ofT from the rest of thn Notre Dame world. The long arm of the law was literally keeping us Crom the very horrw wn chose to spPnd our four yr,ars of academia. 
It must havn been my threat!~ning face that tipped them off. Maybe it was my gtmuine smilfl or use of "please" and "thank you" that openf'd th11ir f1yes to my criminal campus intentions. 
Keeping campus safe is an important issue. I rr.alize this. I'm not suggesting the gate guards allow any and every person who approaches their gate's entrance. I ask that they keep only the obviously dangerous students off the premises. You know the ones -the predatorial types who roll up in their SUVs really slowly, :,,mile politely at the attendant and ask to go to l.yons. Keough. or. God forbid, the administra­tion building. Sure. these people must be stopped. Keep us safe, yes. But don't keep us away. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Kare Nagengast Jose Cuellar Maribel Morey Graphics 
rinn Pressly Katie Annis Sports Production Kevin l\ercho11 Noah Amstadter 
Katie Hughes Jeff l\alrruzak 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Lil.1 Haughey Angrla Campos 

l'hc Oh,crvrr (U~I'~ ~'i'l 2-4000) is published Mund,,)' rhroll~h f-rid,,)' t'Xlt.'pl during c.·x.11n .md v,1L,l I IU1\ pcriml:'1. The-Ohsc1Vcr i) ,I mcmhc.-r of du:• AMm.:l,nc.-d l'rc!.s. All reprnduclion riµlus .He resavC"d 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE HISTORY 
Saint Mary's allies with Ancilla College  Notre Dame wakes up the echoes  
Sept. 10, 1998  Sept. 13, 1993  
The agreement between Saint Mary's and Ancilla College,  Notre Dame's 27-23 win  over Michigan in front of an  
a  two-year Catholic co-educational college in Donaldson,  NCAA record of 106 will  find  itself scriptnd in  llrn  
Ind .. allows qualified female graduates of Ancilla to trans­ pages of any book detailing great wins by the Irish.  
fer dirnctly to Saint Mary's with a minimal loss of credits.  The team  came out inspired, playing flawlessly  on  
"This will help students at Ancilla concentrate on their  both sides of the ball during the first half'. "A lot of'  
areas of' expertise so Saint Mary's ran then build on it."  people counted  us  out," said  Bobby Taylor.  an  AJJ­ 
said Marilous Eldred, president of' Saint Mary's.  American defensive back.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Berkeley questions meaning of outreach policy 
BERKELEY, Calif. in 1995. 

A case argued before the state Ward Connerly, a UC regent and Supreme Court Wednesday could have Proposition 209 advocat1~. said he a profound impact on the University of thinks a ruling in San .losn's f'avor California systf'm's outreach policies. could allow the university to dodge thl\ which have been a major part of the law. university's efforts to attract under­Ile pointed to a scnnario :,,imilar to rrprr.sented minority students in the the current San .losr. situation in wake of Proposition 209. which the university could admit stu­
Currently under review in San dents based on their particip,ition in Francisrn. the case deals with San outreach programs. Jose's system of granting construction "Once we give a pn1fcrence on the contracts. Firms bidding for city busi­basis of outreach, we'rn going to give n r,ss must show evidence that they priority to sludenl'i who have a part in have sought out or already use minor­But juxtaposing the ruling onto the outreach programs." he said. "That 
ity or female subcontractors. university's situation. the court's deci­would be, in effect. a way around 
An electrical business tiled the suit, sion may have broader implications Proposition 209. This is governnrnnt claiming that the requirement violates for the UC svstem, which has money, and the intent of' 209 is that no the theme of the proposition. The embarked on amassive outreach govrrnment money would be used on 1996 referendum prohibits prefer­campaign since the regents first the basis of' race. You've opened th1~ ences for women and minorities in bannPd race and grndiw prefcrr.nces !1oodgates." 

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

PENN STATE UNIVERSITY 
State files motion in tribe suit 

Students consider Jocking dorms 
Cl IAMPAIGN. Ill.
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 
The state rncenLly filed a motion to intervene in a casP

After a much-publicized rape that occurred on campus 
against lllinois landownnrs who are bning sued by an

this summer and ongoing safety issues in campus resi­
Indian tribn. The motion Is backed by a clause ofsovereign

dences. the Penn State student government leaders are 
immunity. which allows the st.ate to actively litigate in the

discussing the possibility of a 24-hour lor,kdown in resi­
case without any worry of liability. Earlior this summer.

dc nce halls. Members of Undergraduate Student 
the Miami Tribe or Oklahoma. a federally recognized

Government expressed concerns about student safety 
Indian tribe, filed a ,lawsuit to recover possession of

issues and discussed keeping the dorms locked 24 hours 
approximately 2.6 million acres of land in East Central

a day. seven days a week. The Association of Hesidence 
Illinois. The tribe has held strong to its position that the

Hall Students has also been keAping track of student 
1805 Treaty of Grouseland still guarantees it possession of

opinion on the issue. and the Office of Residence Life is 
this land. 'The tribe has always been willing to sit down

waiting for more student input. "If the student support is 
and talk this out," said Torn Ostorholt. tho tribe's attorney. 

then·, I believe we'll move toward making changes." said 
"The fact that. tlrn st.ate of Illinois wants to participatr. in

Karen Ff'ldbaum, associate director of residence life. The 
the litigation of this case without any possibln liability

problem with keeping lhe dorms locked 24 hours. 
holds no mnrit." Members of tho tribP still remain opti­

Feldbaurn said, is that in the past, student opinion has 
mistic, however. despite this latest move by the state. "Wr

been against swiping a card r.very time a resident needs 
have attempted to negotialo with Gov. Hyan and his rcprn­

lo enter a residence hall. Some students, like Allison 
scntatives on this matter :,,cvcral limes," said Gnorg<i

Baginski, said they tended to agree. "I don't know if lock­
Tiger, director of public affairs for the Miami lribn. 

ing the buildings is nec0,ssary all the time." she said. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWc;1rh(:r ~forccour for d~vrime conditions and hi~h rcmncr.-1rures  
H L Friday ~ 82 63 Saturday ~ 76 60 Sunday ~ 81 62 Monday Q, 83 63 Tuesday ~ 83 61  

The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 8. 

sos-----f> 
FRONTS: 
.a....&.
............ ............ 
C 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pre••ur~: 
® © D D D D D D 
High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Assoeiafed P1ess 

Atlanta 74 69 Las Vegas 97 75 Porlland 67 56 Ballimore 80 63 Memphis 8! 72 Sacramento 90 56q_~_Qq6}.Q ~ u 82 Milwaukee 64 83
~ 
Boston 66 76 St. LOUIS 69 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries SnoW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy C~icago 80 64 New York 78 67 Tampa 89 74 
Via Assoc1sf6d Press GmphlcsNer Houston 89 76 Philadelphia 82 65 Wash DC 82 66 
Friday, September 8, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Students study in i01poverished Latin AIDerican areas 
p]('(I to I.a Hioja in ,\rgenlina to
By KIFLIN TURNER 

study small Christian communi-. 
New, Writer 

ties and upon arrival, met some lorn! t'amilies. I maginf\ creating ,UJ inlcnsivr "Th0 breathtaking landscape, 
rP:Warrh proji'ct and lhrn actu­t lw ruggP<l motmt1tins, lhr> tall ally putling the wurds inlo prac­cactus dotting thP horizon, the tirP in a forPign plarn. Or think sandv soil and thP. exotic ani­about pursuing an internship in mals: sharply contrasted with Washington ll.C wlH'r<' alttmding the indignant living conditions of nWPlings on r«,rpign policy or tlw th rN' povP.rty strickPn fami­
mi>Pling diplt1rnat.s is a common 1ics who madP their homes 
Ort'UITl'lll'I'. 

under thP-trees." she said. This past sumnrnr. nint> stu­Tfw dcstitutn conditions of 
dt•nts t•arh rmbarknd on thrir underprivilcg(~d c1H111lrif's haw own unHJllt' jourirnys through inspirrd students to inspnct their tlw I.a!in .\nwriran An,a Studirs spirituality and tlwir n~spective 
Program. rolns in Urn world. hir Maria FPilnwwr, a senior "Amazingly Pnough. l'aith. who studil'cl ho.:.• c:hurelrns 
hope and love not only survive n'spond lo thP AIDS npidemic in but thrive in tlrn places where Knnya. ht'r lif'f· is 1·lrnngrd onn would l<'ast rxpnr:t ovfln b1'l'1Lt1sv n!' hnr ,·ye-opening among tlrn familit's who inhibit 
TONY FLOYDfThe Observer 
\~XpOSlff(' to povt'rly. 

thn f'orgoltt-'n garbagi> <lumps." Lindsay Frank (center) discusses Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights and her experience
"1 dPlinitPly apprt\ciatP a lot of' 

Bodgcrs said. there last summer as part of the Latin American Area Studies Program (LAASP). · things I usPd to tnkP for granted Senior Molly Kindnr visited 
eyes," said Kinder. Speaking on the Latin American Area Studies to Notre Dame, and the other islikl' food. wat0r. p]0dricity and Chilo and researched thP. govern­thP. holistic. effoct of her visit. Program funded by the Kellogg to bring Notre Dame to the restpawd roads." said FPilmeyer. ment's approach to bridging the 

Kinder said. "It was a really Institute, oversees tho interna­of the world," said Welna.

For Lht' studnnts surh contact gap betwPen the rich and poor 
great mix of experiences on a tional and national internships Anotlrnr goal of the Kellogg
with povf'rly was dnnply hum­

communities. 
personal and on an academic availablr to qualified students. Institute has b0cn to incrrase tlrn

bling and thought provoking. "It was rnally fascinating to sec 
level." "My job has two broad goals. number of internships available

Maur1\Pl1 Hodgi•rs, a sf'nior. trav-the rxpcrirncn through their 
Christopher Welna, clirnctor of One of them is to bring the world to students. 



Saint Mary's students experience New York with alumna 
"I think it increased our awareness of our own," said Angela Shearman, a Street's executive. They met with a 1975
By MOLLY MCVOY 

two main things," said Claude Renshaw, senior business major who went on the graduate Patty Lure] Cook. who was bond 
S.iinr Marv's Ediror 

the organizer of last year's trial New trip. "To meet the president of Nabisco trader and is now a stockbroker. 
York program. "It showed us how busi­and have them roll out the red carpet for "One of the alums we met is a billion­
\Vhrn 20 Saint Mary's students trav­ness operates and how it's all intercon­us was amazing." Students also visited dollar bond trader," Shearman said. "She Plf\d to NPw York City for a business trip nerted. It also showed the value of a Sports Illustrated where the photo editor, has a really successful career, but she last spring. they had the opportunity to Saint Mary's education and what it can another alumnae, gave the students talked about how she managed to have a 
1·mH1uc,r tlw Big Appln. But it was nothing 

lead to." insight into the media business. family as well. It was great to see the suc­likP thnir alumn,w had donP. The program was built on the Saint "The various places the students visited cess on both sides." 
l'\o\v an approved rnurse for thP 2000-Mary's alumnae involved in businesses in allowed them to get valuable information However, the trip was not all business. 2001 af:adf'mi!' yc,ar. the New York pro­the New York City area. For example. the about careers and job opportunities," "We were invited to go to CBS and hear gram. sponsored by the businrss depart­students saw the inner-workings of said Jill Vihtelic, chair of the business the announcements of all the new nwnt. is allowing Saint Mary's studrnts to Nabisco thanks to Beth Culligan. a 1972 department. "I think for the department, shows," Shearman said. "To see Faith mako powerful ronnPctions to Saint graduate of the College. in terms of servicing our students, we feel Hill live at Carnegie Hall. That's incredi­Mary's alumna<; running the business "It was an inrredible opportunity that strongly that they need to get out and see ble." world of the Big Applr.. would not have been available to us on these sort of things." The course included a research pa.per 
In addition to on one aspect of the business community 
seeing local busi­in New York City and small papers on 


"For Love or Mo11ey--Or Both? Gender, Justice, a11d Caring 
Labor"  
•  Monday. September 11 at 8PM, Hesburgh Center Auditorium  

"Ca11 a Feminist Survive in a Discipline such as Economics?" (brown bag lunch) 
• Tuesday, September 12 at 
12:30 PM. Hesburgh Library Lounge 
"Confronting the Science/Value Split: Feminist Economics, J11stitutio11alism, Pragmatism, and Process Thought" 
• Wednesday, September 
13 at 4 PM. 118 De 
Bartolo 

The Provost's Distinguished Women's Lecturer Series Presents 
Julie Nelson 
Center for the Study of Values in Public Life, Harvard Divinity School 
Professor Nelson is well known as the author of books and articles in applied macroeconomics and feminist economics. Her work in applying feminist scholarship on the philosophy and methodology of science to the discipline of economics is widely recognized. In 1996, she published Feminism, Objectivity, and Economics with Routledge and she co­edited Beyond Economic Man: Feminist Theory and Economics, published by University of Chicago Press in 1993. Her articles have appeared in top-20 journals in economics, such as the American Economic Review, Journal of Political Economy, Journal of Labor Economics, and Econometrica. In addition to being a leader in the economics profession, Professor Nelson is a founding member of the International Association for Feminist Economics and associate editor of the celebrated journal Feminist Economics. She has received prestigious honors and awards such as the Leif Johansen Research Award from the University of Oslo in Norway and the Second Place in the John W. Kendrick Prize for Best Article from the International Association for Research in Income and Wealth and major grants from the National Science Foundation and the Ford Foundation . 
nesses. the stu­each of the businesses thev visited. The dents had a mini­trip will now be a business ~ourse offernd course in the day to freshmen, sophomores and juniors and in the life of a Wall will be held from May 12 to May 19. 
**MBA TAILGATES** 
-All MBA Students, Alumni & Families welcome -Friends, Football, & Free Food! -Located in the Senior Bar Courtyard before every home game 
PLEASE JOIN US!! 





~ .•. 1,m11

Hey Students! Are you loo .• .·Jor, J fo\,;i,, 
Aspiritual home away

thatJl!itS. great mu 
.•.,r,(;,$QJIP'~ e 
,-1, 
:}~i.
.:,'.':-'" 
·H. 
:-. ~-:· .. ~: -:r't 
:-~....... '.. ··:· 
..J;]};%11?··: 
: )': ·the peopl .,, re located .,.t;,~ 

~~~~';°'"· .•'"J"wll1
atis 1sfUnlted:Metbodl$t'.Ch .· .i ft}ri 
.., . · 1 t h · rch:esta611St{d'lrrMtchlanal 
,'rt.here~r4ii~ars~ ijna:fQf,ood'.rea~~~~·-~ 
... We worsttfp af'8:~5 and"·11 :00a;m. :..·,·::· ·· d our:young adultcltiss r:n~ets at~:~ a.!ff~:;.._:.
:--:avi)ry Sunday startlngSeptember·fO:""-..... _.. Vi,. 

... . 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 8, 2000 
"We went back to the 1993 and saw what we did


Fans 
that weekend." I-fart said about the crowd size, "nnd

continued from page 1 
planned thr same way this weekend."

without a tirket -similar to When the Irish knockedthe number of ticketless for off the No. 1 Seminoles inthe "Game of the Century" 1993. the crowd was excited
in 1993 against Florida 
but refrained from the riot­

State. While thcs£~ fans will 
ing and looting thaL followed not see the kickoff live. they 

big victo­

can still see 
ries atthe game 

other

in an excit­''/ hope that we do 
schools.

ing setting have a big celebration 
Hints have

at snveral 
after we beat Nebraska, become

bars and 
nearly

restaurants but I don't think it will 
common­

around 
turn violent." 
place at

town. 
schools
T b e 

Rex Rakow I i k e

Morris Inn 
Michigan


will host director of Security/Police 
S t a t e .

" I r i s h 
Hakow,

Courtyard" 
howr.ver,

Friday 
does not expect any prob­from noon to 6 p.m. and 

lems from Notre Dame fans

Saturday until 7 p.m. 
this weekend.

Located next to Main Circle. 
"I hope that we do have athe Morris Inn will have live 

big celebration after we

music on Friday and food beat Nebraska. but I don't 
and drinks all weekend. 
think it will turn violent." he 

General manager Dave Hart said. "I would be shocked [if'
said his staff is expecting 
there was rioting!. Our stu­

crowds the same size as dents certainly are very
Florida State in 1993 when 
spirited but we've never 1,000 people packed the 

seen them get destructive. Courtyard to watch the 
The class of people here is game. 
too high for that." 



free classifieds 
@ 


observer.nd.ed 
powered by wizzle.com 



~ 5S. Michigan St. 
219.233-1000 


Hours7 
Lunch 
Mon-Fri 11am -2pm 
Dinner 
Mon-Thu, Sun 
Sprr.-9pm 
Fri-Sat 
5pm-9:30pm 
211 
D L 

--+------,A 
N. MAIN s


TH A I RESTAURANT 
ST. A 
L .

"The first Thai restaurant in town. We invite you to try world class · L cuisine, Thai cuisine, the delicate art E that descendc; from primogenitor. Thai cuisine is designed to excite your five senses; sweet, sour, salty spicy, and [nu~
naturnl." 211 N. Main St. 
South !lend, IN

-Now 1-Iiringt Good Pay 
-16601 

. , , I ~ • 



Pep rally 
continued from page I 
would f'ill thP Jovce Cnnt<'r 
and Lhat tlwre wiiuld be no 
room for Notre Dame f'ans at 
p('P rally lime. Ileisler d('niPd 
that this was the reasoning 
bnhiml tlw decision Lo move 
thl' rally. stating that tickets 
wcrn not sold for voll1wba.ll. 
"'Tickl\LS were going to be 
distributnd {as! an internal 
control mechanism to deter­
mine how many peopln had 
b(~(;n admitted to thr build­
ing," !w said. "We exp<•ctcd 
tlw rnscrvnd scats to bn used 
by the studr.nts and thn 
groups that havl' access to 
those ... IbutJ at some point 
you 'vc got to know whnn to 
close the doors." 
lleislrr does nol anticipate 
that Nebraska fans will dis­
rupt tonight's rally. 
"The suggl'stion we've 
lrnard is that Nebraska fans 
are tn1mendously hospitable. 
I haven't heard anything from 
anybody not suggesting that 
thr.ir fans arc gn~al." he said. 
"i\nd how manv of them arc~ 
really going to h<' in town'! ... 
we·vo heard all thes1~ sugges­
tions that therP are going lo 
be ·x· number or peopl!' com­
ing to down l'Vl'n if tlwy don't 
hav1, tickrts. but (we don't 
know how many there will 
br. I." 
Instr.ad of' opening thli rally 
to additional Nebraska fans. 
holding it in tlw stadium may 
incn~ase Notrr. Dame supporl, 
llcdsler said. Concerns about 
being able to gPt a scat may 
havr drt!'rri'd surh !'ans from 
attending ralli1•s held in the 
Joye r C: 1~ n l l' r. bu t wii I no L 
prove a problem tonight. hP 
cxplain<'d. 
"I think tht, wholt' idea that 
1..wo pip w iII u n dPrs tan d that 
it's wide opPn and you'rr. 
going to have no problPm g<'t­
Ling a seat would. you hope. 
1:nr.ourage people~ ... he said. 
'Tm sure there's plenty of 
people here in town that 
might be interested in r.oming 
to something like this." 
lleislcr said that students 
will still receive the best seat­
ing, dospite the change in 
V<'ntrn. Thn stadium gatr.s will 
open at 5:30: students should 
enler gatr. E, while the gener­
al public should go to gates C 
and D. 
Btd N' Bn:akfast Registrr J,1y,-c Smigiclski Stay in .i 04 Home dose to the Dome:" 
219/232-0774 888/830-7722 
http://husincss.michirna.org/hnbrcg/ 
Irish fans to part 'red sea' with green gear 
accessible to anyone.

By LAURA ROMPF 
"We want to encourage

Assistant News Editor 
e v e r yo n e to w n a r !{ r e trn 
clothing and use tho gre<'n 

So you want to be like paint from the concnssion Moses and part the Bed Sea'? stands," ()'Donoghue said. Student body president Brian "We know Nebraska is com­O'Donoghue, student body ing out in full l'on:r..'' president, dcrns and he is According t.o a recnnt urging Irish fans to wear i\ssociatnd Press article, 
green on Nebraska Saturday as roquested 
part of a "We want to encourage 
morn than national everyone to wear green 28,000 campaign. tickets and
clothing and use the

"Nebraska was given
green paint from the

is known for 4.000. Five their fan concession stands." hundrnd of support and those tick-a sea of red nts wcrn
Brian O'Donoghue

at all of their 
sot aside 

games," student body president 
for stu­O':>o~.oghue dents. said. We as 
These an Notre numbers Dam~~ comm unit v n e 1~ d to 
show Nebraska f'ans will be remind them that ·this is our out in l'ull f'orcn. and thus 
house. cn1r team and our O'Donoghur. is 1rncouraging game." 
all Irish fans to comn togeth­As part of tho effort to er and wnar grnnn. have everyone wear green, "We rnally hopn everyone 
the student government is in grnen," Im said. "It will office will provide green show Nebraska whcrn they 
body paint at every conces­ar<-: and who thny am dr.aling sion stand which will be with." 

TEACH ENGLISH IN KOREA 
with Ding Ding Dang Children's English 
Competitive salary, airfare, free housing, health insurance, 1-month bonus at the end of the contract 
Rt•quiremeuts: B.A, Degree. Work with clzildren, fl.'flClzinK exl'trieiict•, or TESL cert/firntion i~ aphis 


Information Session 
Date: 9/ 11 Time: 6:00 P.M. 
Location: DeBartolo Hall, Room 245 
If i11te1esfctf, ple11,e w11fal't S..a11 Fly1111 ,11 :,Jl,~l.1/S'[yam/!MJ/.!!J. ori11,t come 1,, the l''"'''nfalio11. 
www.dingdingdang.com 





ELl~S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 
115 Dixie Way North South Bend IN, 4663 7 (219 )-277-7239 
in Roseland 
Business Hours: TUESDAY through SAfURDAY 
11 :00 AM to 2:00 PM and 4:00 PM to 9:00 PM SUNDAY and MONDAY 
Closed 
· SHJSH KEBA13 · GR.APE LEAVE ROLLS · TABOUU · HOUMM05 · BABA (i-HANNOUC,-E / S]?INACH PIE · FALAFEL 
, I I -'. 



LD":NATION 
· Friday, September 8, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER \\1RE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Greece warns Milosevic: President Slobodan Milnsevir rebuffed the Greok foreign ministPr·s efforts Thursday to pressure him on fairness in uproming elections and indkated that the vote was not a matter for outside inter­fcrt>nr.e. Milosevic and other officials apparently gavP (~corge Papandrnou a rool rnr.eption after the Greek minister suggested that Yugoslavia rould takr its first step out of international iso­lation by safeguarding a fraud-free vote. 
Paramilitary looms in Colombia: 
Colombia's chief proserutor said Thursday he had a list of l.msines:;rncn who supported right­wing paramilitary squads and warned that !lnancing outlawed groups is a criminal offense. Tlw comments by national prosecmor Alfonso Gonw1. ranrn a day -after Carlos Castano. com­m:tndN of thfl national paramilitary organiza­lion. rfaimed his group enjoys growing suµport from local and intrrnational businossPs. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Brain dead woman gives birth: A 
woman left brain dead after she was shot in the hrnd during a weekend burglary underwent a CaesarP,rn sr,rtion and dclivr,red twins. two months premature. The boys were born \VPdtrnsday at Martin Luther King Jr.-Drew 
•"v!Pdiral CPnter in Los Angeles. One was in criti­cal condition Thursday and the other was in stable rnndition. hospital spokeswoman Inez 13erkon said. Their mother. Carmen Valencia. :n. was shot early Saturday when two men broke into her motor home. 
Man kills two, wounds two: A man apparently upset with rity workers shot two peoplP to death and wounded two others in Bunker Thursday. the Missouri State Highway Patrol said. Police sear!'.hed for the assailant, 49-year-old Garry Dewayne Watson, in the remote, heavily wooded area surrounding this small south-central Missouri community of about 300 people. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Pre-teen takes plea bargain: Proser.u­tors have dismissed r.or.aine dealing !'.barges against a 13-year-old boy in return for his admissions that he possessed a handgun and a brass pipe for smoking marijuana. Huntington County Circuit Judge Mark McIntosh ordered the youth, rharged in July at age 12, to be placed indefiniwly at White's Institute, a deten­tion renter with a school. Deputy Prosecutor Jamie Groves said he would have requested the same sentenr.e even if he had proceeded with thn rncainP charge. a felony that carried up to a 20-yPar prison sentence for a convicted adult. 
Market Watch 9f08 
Dow 


11,259.87 -50.77 
]ONES 
CompositeUp, Same: Oown, Volume:1,626 531 1,164 836,263,000 

AMEX: 974.18 +3.03 
Nasdaq: 409!U5 +85.0 l 
NYSE: 675.49 +l.03 
S&P 500: 1502.51 +10.26 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECUIUTY %CIIANGE $GAIN PRICE .\IICRO~DFT CORI' f~ISFTI (l.~!O ,0.6225 70.0(, R[All-RITE Uli{I' \R[)hT; .i'i.17 +2.747~ 10.% W<lRLDCOM INC: (WCOM} -} ')8 -')4 .l0.5(, fNTEL C()RI' 11'.'-ITC) r2.(i'I t l.?j{)l) (1/',4,.'i CIS( :t l SYSTF..\IS (CSC:( ll +.l 11 (16.l~
+2.0 

SIERRA LEONE 

Associated Press 

FREETOvVf\ 
A team of British para­troopers arrived in Sierra Leone Thursday to give negotiators trying to free six British army hostages the option of a military rescue. 
The team, which numbers "a couple dozen," flew in from Dakar, Senegal, where more than 100 members of their British Parachute Regiment remained. said British army spokesman Lt. Cmdr. Tony Cramp. 
Their presence in Sierra Leone and Senegal. some 500 miles away. "gives more flexibility to our options," Cramp said. 
But he added that they 
were not expected to have imminent "militarv involve­ment ... to secure the six British soldiers." 
The six hostages were among 11 British soldiers and a Sierra Leonean sol­dier taken hostage on Aug. 25 by the country's West Side Boys renegade army group. 
The renegades, who have fought both the Sierra Leonean government and the country's brutal rebel Revolutionary United Front, or RUF, released five other British soldiers last week. The Sierra Leonean army officer also remains captive. 
Despite the arrival of the paratroopers, Britain remains committed to a negotiated settlement to the hostage drama, Cramp said. "We have not closed doors to negotiations." 
The British hostages, members of the 1st Irish Regiment, were stationed at Benguema, about 25 miles east of Freetown, where British instructors were training Sierra Leonean army recruits. 
The captured men's col­leagues were being returned to Britain this week, and 220 others from the regiment were being flown in to replace them. 
They are retraining Sierra Leone's shattered, defense force to fight the rebels, who are responsible for the deaths and inten­tional mutilation of tens of thousands of civilians since war began in 1991. 
Although the government of President Ahmed Tejan Kabbah and the rebels signed an accord in July 1999, bringing the rebels into a power-sharing gov­ernment in exchange for peace, fighting flared anew in early May after the rebels seized hundreds of 
U.N. peacekeepers and attacked towns and villages. 
In an unrelated develop­ment, two Italian mission­aries were abducted by RUF rebels in a Guinean vil­lage near the border with Sierra Leone, the Vatican­based Misna missionary news service reported. 

Drug smugglers attempt to use sub 
could have called it "20,000 Kilos Top officials flocked to the ware­
A.sociated Press 

Under the Sea." house Thursday to marvel at the FACATATIVA The 100-foot submarine could have lengths that Colombian drug traffir.k­
ln a scheme worthv of Jules Verne crossed an ocean. surfar,ed off Miami ers. who supply more than 80 perr.ent that awed even veterin naval officers. or other coastal cities and surrepti­of the world's cocaine and a rising Colombian drug traffickers were tiously unloaded its drug cargo. share of its heroin, go to export their building a sophisticatf'd submarine to "In thf' 30 some-odd years I have illicit products. smuggle cocaine. reportedly with help been in law enforcement I have never Police were led to the find by suspi­from American and Russian criminals. seen anything like this," Leo Arreguin, cious area residPnts, who had Sf'en 
Police siumbled upon the half-built the chief of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Americans hanging around the ware­suhmarinA Wednesday night in a Administration in Colombia, said house, located in a cow pasture off a warehouse outside the capital. Bogota Thursday. highway near the suburb of -7.500 feet up in the Andes moun­"This is huge," Arreguin said. Facatativa. tains and 210 miles from any port. "We're talking about being ablr, to When police arrived. there was no 
Even by smugglers' innovation stan­load up. to ~00 tons of cocaine in this one around. Surveillance r.ameras had dards, this was off the charts -Vf'rne submarine. been placed on the roof. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 8, 2000 
Tickets 
continued from page 1 
Ttw most likely pPnalty is th!' loss of thr. studr.nt ticket bookl(!l and thH inability to rwt lL nnw 011('," hP said. 
Tracking down offenders 
Among thn factors consid­er(1d in dr.lermining student pnnaltirs would bP whether tll' not tlw sludt•nt scalpr.d Lhn ticket and wfwth1\r thew haVt\ been caught sP!ling studPnt tick<~ts bdon•, Shoup said. 
Still, Kirk doPs not antici­palt! that his ol'li<:r. will activu­lv track down studPnt Sf\ltr.rs. · "! 1·.;rn assllrc' you I'm not going on !\Bay to find out !who's srll­ingl." Kirk 
money !'or counterfeit these noseblrrnd
said. "{lpeople want to pay 
our T­seats," Cnvi said.
S !J O ll p 
a lot <{(money fur 
s hi rt s


agrePcl. Unfaltering spirit 
our T-shirts because b1~r.ause
"Wn rnally Though several longtime
the ticket

don 'l havn the ticket is part of Notre Dame !'ans will miss tho
is part or

th,~ tinw to do game because they have sold
the deal. that:,;;fine . ., 
the deal.

that. I sup­thoir ticknts, few sol'm to 
that's 

posr. ii' sonw-think H's a decision thev'll
fin I!." 

01rn ral!Pd us Joel Tipton regret for life in the cvrnt of
Nor is

lip with a senior an· 1 rish victory. 
complaint and snid. 'I Lhink I just got rippPd off by a studPnt through nBay· lwl' would!." lw said. "W1• don't have the lillll' to clll l'llVPl't opPrati()JlS through PBay and I don't think any of us an' intPr<\Slnd in it." 
Shoup did PXprPss roncnrn l'or unsuspt'1:ting l'ans who huy a sludPnl lif'kPt without knowing it will nol gain Lhem an·,•ss to llw stad iurn. 
"TIll' prob I l' m is th al ... whPn you go through thP slu­dPnt gatP you havl' to sho\'\' an ID. II' llwy sold lllw tickl'll to a non-stuc!Pnl. that ,·n•atPs ('Vl'n morP of a probli>m !'or llw 1wrson who purrhast>d il. ... WP Pnd up PvPry yPar hav­ing a lol Ill' rnally unhappy prrnplP at thi> gatPs that bought a studPnl licht think­ing thPy'd bP abll' lo get into thP ganw that arP stopp1•d al tlw gall's." 

Trading undeterred 
IJPspitl' possibll' sanctions from BPsidPnc·1· J.ifp or loss ol' f'llllll'l' til'kPI privil<'gt's, slu­dt•nls and alumni continuP lo sPII tit'kt>l.s. 1-'1'\\' PxprPsS1\d g1•nui1w l'nnrPrn aboul disri­pli11ary iU'tion. 
St~nior .l1wl Tipton. a sPcond 
studrnt among Hastings's was limited because I could group of four, isn't particular­cancel the check if the tickets ly worried about conse­never materialized." quences f'rom HesidPnce Life. S1•ller McKenna was also 
"l don't know exactly what confident in lhe eBay system. Hr,sLife can or r.an't due. I'm "In rr.gards to payment looking at the tickr.t agree­issues. I haven't been burned ment and it doesn't really say by eBay yr,t. A'nyone that tries anything about whnthnr you the bait and switch usuallv can sell your tickets for more loses their ID and aucl.io~1 or not. but I'm not wrribly privileges and users know concerned. None of us are that. so they usually don't try terribly concr.rned," he said. il," he said. 'Tve got several 
Still. Tipton and his friends l'riends who work f'or eBav ure taking precautions. and they feel confident abou·t 
"We're not selling tlrn tick­thr eBay system. So if they <'ls !'or $200, \Ve've got tlrnsn trust thoir product, so do I.'' T-shirts made up. and wn're Despite Fraleigh's warn­snlling the T-shirts for about ings, purchasers did not $250 and t.hn tickets l'or !'ace worry about receiving forged valun, but it's a package tickets. dt:al," hr said. "If' pm1plr. want "As far as countcrfrit tirk­
to pay a ots, I guess that's always a 
lot or danger. but nobody would 
McKrnna 

"If Notre Dame wins versus
worried 

Nebraska, more power to about the 
them," said McKenna. "It's on TV. but if anyonn Plse judges
University's potential 

the status of' their happiness 
response. 

in life on missing a football"The University is way too 
game, then they have issues." 
uptight about mrnial issuns Hastings believes that hesurh as scalping tickets and 

can still be an Irish fan, even
should spend a little more 

if !m's not at the gamn.
time worrying about thP poor "We couldn't turn down thisrelationship between students opportunity. It's not a reflec­

and administration or the 

tion of our loyalty as fans," hernntinued lack of a univ1!rsal 
said.
nnn-discrimination policy," lrn 

Tipton exprnssr.d similar
said. 

sen liments.
Both buvPrs and sellers 

"We'll be really happy forcxpressnd little concern about 
the team and it will bn great
bning scamnwd through eBay. 

Iii' they win!. but that's lifo,"
"Tim tid<'ts I did purrhasn h!1 said. "We'll bP. clrnering

w1'ri' through two dilTPrl'nt alongsidn Pveryonn nlsn. very nwans. For I ltrn first sntl. the 

probably down at the
sr!IIPr send them FrdEx signa­

Linebacker Inn." 
turn delivery. I had to give the chPck to the FedEx guy lo gnt thl' tick<'ls," said Covi. "It's an nvPrnight COD. I guess. I sup­posP tlw scllr'r had somn risk. but I did nlll. l just paid for ltwm and r<Wl!ivcd the lick­Pls." 
"For tlw !sc'cond set! l had SPVl'ral phonl' convr.rsalions with tlw man ·s st>cTr.tarv and slw scPnwd very profoss.ional. Slw agmPd to SPnd llw lirkets DVPrnigbt upon n~rPipt of a !'ax copy rd' my rheck," hn l'ontinut>d. "Again my risk 

Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

Actors from the London Stage As You Like It 
Butkovitch joins 


Development faculty 
and distribution of rducation­
ByJENNIFER MORGAN 
al matp,rials for thn planned
News Wrircr 
giving office. 
"I had stayP-d involvnd with 
Notre Dame rocrntly named the UnivP.rsity," Butkovich John Butkovich to the position said. "Gotting this job was a of assistant direr.Lor of perfoct marriage. I had a planned giving at Notre f'amiliarily with l'undraising as Danrn. a voluntr.rr with thn dnvelop­
Planned giving is the branrl1 men t ol'f'icn and through of the 
llabit.at !'or Development llumanity." Office that "The whole development A l'ornrnr 
drals with process is a sophisticated resident ol' deferred Farley llall,
approach based on
gifts. such as Butkovich 
those given in relationships -giving graduated trus ls or people the opportunity to l'rom Notre wills. Damr~ in
participate in what
"The wholr. 1963 and development Notre Dame is all about. " wnnl on to 
procnss is a 
r<1ceivc a sophisticatnd law degr1w
John Butkovich 
approarh at the
assistant director
based on Salmon P.
of planned giving
relationships 
-giving peo­ple the opportunitir.s lo participate in what Notre Dame is about." Butkovich said. 
Butkovich's new responsi­bilities will include meeting with University alumni and supportr.rs around thr. coun­try while assisting in projects of the Ba.din Guild. the University's honorary rerogni­tion society !'or plannnd giving benefactors. Father Stev1rn Badin was Notrn l>amn's first benefactor who signed the deP.d for the Univr.rsity's property in 1832. Butkovich will also aid in the produrtion 
Chasr 

School  of  
law  in  
Cincinnati in 19(,8 .  
lie  practiced  with  the  

Cincinnati law firm. Butkovic'h. Schimpf, Schimpf. and c;inocr.hio for 2:i years until 199:i. lln volunlPPrPd f'or the Universitv's IJnvnlopmenl Off'ire ·as Cincinnati's rngional chair­man or thn StratPgic Monwnt Campaign and rnc.nntly sPrvPcl as nxPrulivP dirnctor ol' llabital for llumanitv of St. .Joseph County. Ill' ,·t11d his wil'P, 1\1arv Ann. hav<' thrP!' Chi Jdr I' n .•lWO Of W hO I1l a r (' Notrn l>amr. graduatns. 
Free Classifieds NOW AVAILABLE. http://observer.nd.edu 




C.J.'s 
TENT PARTY N.D­NEBRASKA FRI. SEPT 8 11am-12am SAT. SEPT. 9 5pm-12am 
BURGERS OUTSIDE GRILL 
BEVERAGES 
by William Shakespeare 
MUSIC / DANCING 8pm-12am 
Thursday, September 14 ............. 7;30 pm Friday, September 15 ................... 7;30 pm Saturday, Septemb{:<r 16 ............. 7;30 pm 

"UNDER THE 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $16 • Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. 

TENT@ C.J.'S"
MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 

page 7 

Friday, September 8, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
hats, polo shirts, jackets, novelties and much more! 
Where...? 
N 

Located at:
1 
CLEVELAND 
LOGAN CENTER 
I235 N. Eddy, South Bend IN 
Uight across ji"om NotreJJame Stadium e11lm11ce on the comer of 

m 
0 
Eddy & 1\11gela

s 


When...? 
ND vs. NebraskaWeekend 
PETA pulls anti-McDonald's ad 
Associated Press 
NOHFOLK, Va. 
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals has sus­pended its campaign against McDonald's in response to the fast-food chain's announce­ment that it will improve liv­ing conditions for its chickens. 
As part of the one-year moratorium, PETA will cease distribution of "Unhappy Meal" boxes that r,ome with bloodied toy animals, the ani­mal rights group said Wednesday. 
The campaign, which kicked off (kt. 1, included billboards depicting a bloody, slaugh­

;f/,;' 

~ 
<(gener~~,t~~~~~nt~e~~~a: like: 
I 

t.ered cow's head and the slo­request for measures that gan: "McDonalds. Cruelty to PETA says would relievn go." chronic leg pain in fowl. as 
PETA faxed a letter to Jack well as a bid for an increase Greenberg, in the number CEO of of unan­
"McDonald's.
McDonald's, nounced audits 
commending Cruelty to go." in slaughter­the corpora­houses. tion's recent McDonald's
PETA campaign 
officials said

actions. The IPtt("r said thP group had sus­pended its campaign "to afford McDonald's a decent amount of time to make other important changes in line with its public pledge to keep mov­ing forward with animal wel­fare improvements." 
The letter also included a 


l7fOR A CELEBRATION 
• Shrimp Farfalle  • Chicken Parmesan  
• Pasta con Pollo  • Shrimp Ravioli  
• Chicken Scallopini  • Salmone alla Griglia  

Papa recommends beginning your celebration with our Bruschetta -a crusty Italian baguette topped with ripe Roma tomatoes, Balsamic vinegar and fresh basil. 
Delizioso! 

5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 
219.271.1692 RESERVATIONS ACCEPTED HOURS: Sunday -Thursday 11:00 a.m. -10:00 p.m. Friday-Saturdayll:OOa.m.-11:00p.m. 
PETA's cam­
paign had nothing to do with its initiative to improve conditions for its laying hens. PETA "refused to have a constructive dialogue with McDonald ·s and our out­standing team of experts," the company said in a statement Wednesday. 


Have your photo taken with Tony Rice, Chris Zorich and Pat Terrell. *Plus they will sign your photo and Notre Dame merchandise. 
Open 24 Hours 

Nick's


patio
,nily Resturant
Fa --~-,. 
Notre Dame:,s Favorite Place to Eat 
Just Minutes rro,n Campus 
• 
Breakfast served 24 hours 

• 
Lunch or, Dinner 

• 
Or a snack anytiu,e Visit us at Carnp·usfood.colll 



277-7400 
Employment Opportunity Available

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 8, 2000 


Loggers return to -work after -wildfires 
IIELENA. Mont. For th1~ first time in weeks. Llw log-g1:rs arr back. 
Thanks to cool. damp wnathPr, thr wildfires that ha v 1• µIagu " d M o II tan a a 11 S(~ ason haVI\ b1• r n ta mnd 1'nough th;.l loggers on Thursday Wt'I'(\ bPing allow.-d back into f'orpsts. 
"Those guys got hit rt•ally hard." said Patrick tleffrrnan. a spokesman for tlw Montana Logging Association "That's four w1•pks of' Inst work " 
Tlw jobs ari\ still considered "high risk l'irn operations," and will bP prohibilPd I p.m. Lo I a.m. \\'orkPrs 11111st also patrol work sit,~s for un hour al't11r tlwy stop. 
Fir1•1'ighting pf'forts in Montana Wl'f!' scaling bark as rrews wcni lci.ving by the pla111\ful 
Pithl'r to 
"7110sP guys got hit really wind down. 
rnturn home 
as the

lwrd. That's four weeks
or go Lo 
weather

other l'irPs oflost work." 
comes in across th<\ 

and assistsrountrv. /\t

1,,ast . :mo Patrick Heffernan them with wrapping up
f'irPl'ightPrs spokesman a lot or these
rnturned Lo Montana Logging Association 
fires thal are

tlrnir homPs in tlw south-r.aslPrn and soulhw 1•str.r n UnitPd SlatPs Parlier in thP 
W(H'k. 
i\s of WPdiwsclay, K() lttr~r. fires w(;rr. burning on 1.6 mil­lion acrtis in Arkansas, California. Idaho. Mississippi, Nr.vada. South Dakota. Montana. N<'w MPxiro. Wyoming-and TPxas. aernrd­ing lo thl' l\alional lntPragPncy I:irP CPnlPr in Bo is ,, , I d a h o . Natio n wi cl P • l'irPs hav1' buriwd mon' than <di million a(·rc•s this yPar. 
NParly I0.000 f'in·f'ighlPrs an• in Montana lrnttlin,I{ thn statP's 24 largr;st firps on (145,281) HIT!'S. 
Miki' St,•arns. a firdightt;r 
from Boscommnn, Mich .. joirrnd nnarly 500 other fire­fighters waiting for word un their ,wxt stop. 
"\V(; wr.re hoping for anuth­
r.r assignm1rnt," he said. "Wr. havr 14-day assignmrnts on thesn Western fires. and our assignmr.nt won't be up until ncxl Monday, bul il look like wc'r<' going to be (demobi­lized) bPcausn then~·s rrn fir£' activity right now. The rains really lrnlped." 
Montana officiJ.Is opened up millions or acres ol' public lands to hikNs and outdoor onthusiasts Tuesday. Favorable wcathnr also enabled Idaho to rnopen more than 2 million acres and ease burning rl'strictions 
"The pendulum has now swung-the other way," said Bill Cowin. incid0nt comman­der for tlrn camp. "Most of tlrn 
inddcnts are slurling Lo 
out them." 
Texas lire­fighters haven't bPen as for­tunate as those in the Northern llockics. A 12.000­acrl' tirn near Newton, a tim­ber city near the Louisiana linf;, destrovod two homes and forced tiw evacuation of about 30 others, Texas Forest ServicP spoknsman Gordon Gay said. Tim blaze had been nr;arlv r.ontainnd Tuesdav. 
In 'Nnbrasku. Gov. ·Mike .Johanns authorizN! thr: use of :rn soldir,rs, hnlicopter and 5,000-gallon wat<'r tanker lru!'k l'rom LhP NPbraska 
National c;uard  to  fight  at  
least :.ix  firns  burning  in  
westPrn Nebraska.  


Visit The Observer Online. http;//observer.nd.edu 

Historic walk faces renovations 
• $20 million needed to repair Cliff Walk 
Associa t~d Press 
NEWPOHT. R.I. 

The histork trail that hugs Newport's craggy coastline offers views of crashing waves on one side and of somf' of the city's grandest r,states on the other. 
But years of' neglect and storm damage have chipped away at the terrain. making portions of the 3.5-mile Cliff Walk perilous for pedestrians. Now, a city commission is try­ing to raise as much as $20 mil­lion to save the popular trail Lhal is visited by 250,000 tourists; a year. 
"Thnre arc whole areas of the walk that are prar.Lically impassable, with trem,mdous erosion problems," said Laurence Culler. head of the n<:'\wly revived Cliff Walk com­
mission. 
The city, state and federal government have long trumpet­ed Lhe trail's historic and envi­ronmental significancf'. but no one has taken responsibility for the pathway since it is unclear who owns it. 
Parts of' the trail predate Colonial times, when the earli­est settlers needed access to the ocean. More was built in the late 1800s. as the area grew in popularity as a retreat for the VanderbilL'i, Astors and others among the nation's wealthiest families. Several mansions on famed Bellevue AVfmue over­look the trail. 
"It is private property through which a public walk goes." Cutler said. "It's extraor­dinarily unique." 
The government has paid to repair some storm damage 
over the yAars, and in 1975, the walk was designated a National Ber.reation Trail. But there has been little ongoing maint<i­nanr.e, aside from some individ­ual efforts, such as volunt.oers who collect trash. 
Some sections arc crumbling. Another often floods. A tunnel through one part is pitch dark and damp. 
Since 1987. thmc people have died after falling off the 
"There are whole areas
walk. and also th(i rhal­several oth­ofthe walk that are lcngr. of figur­
flrs havfl practically impassable. ing out how to 
been seri­pay !'or such a
with tremendous erosion 
ously hurt. proj,;ct; last including a problems." month. U.S. New York Hep. Patrick man who foll KO!lll()dy, l>­
Laurence Cutler
14 feet and ll.l ., tournd 
head, Cliff Walk commission
became the walk to 
nrnnts such as building sepa­rate trails geared to tourists, hikr-rs and people intc1rcslr.d in the walk's history. Signs telling pcwplP whr.rP to enter and nxit, along with more trash barrnls and portable toilets would also make the walk morn tourist­l'riendly. Cutlm· said. 
But bel'orc any rPsLoration can begin. thl1 city must ri~solvc local dilforcno;s ovnr what thn walk should bn. Thcrn is 
wedged 
between two rocks last month. 
A lawsuit over a 1991 fatal accident convinced Mavor Bichard Sardella to rr.vivc ·urn long-dormant commission. lie .iskcd Cutler, a former Ilarvard Univflrsity prol'Pssor of an:hi­tecture and urban design. Lo lead the group. 
The family of Michael Cain, a college student. sund ovpr his fatal fall, saying the dty, state and a university with properly along thn path wnrc responsi­ble. Cain's family lost. but a dis­sent by a slate Suprome Court justice sent a warning. 
"The record ... is replelr with evidence that every defendant. for more than a decade bcl'ort1 Cain's tragic death, had knowl­edge of the extremely danger­ous conditions on Cliff Walk. yf't did nothing," the justice wrolti. "I do not believe that onP can hold oul an implicit invitation to visit a tourist attraction ... then seek to escape liability to those who have acceptr.d the invita­tion and are injured or killPd." 
Cutler envisions improve-
highlight the rwnd for l'PdPral funding for repairs. 
Many property owrwrs along tlrn trail who havP complained about littering and vandalism want it lnl't as is, fparing an upgradP could bring morP tourists_ But city leadnrs bnlinvc thnse conr,nrns can b<1 addressod. while also solving the broadPr public safiity issue. 
Without some action. Cutlt~r fr.ols the pathway lw dnscribns as the city's "jpwel" could bc lost. 
Lara Cogliano and f'ianc:P Matthnw Marra, from Nnw York City. wprc drawn to thr. walk by a r.Plativn of Cogliano's who recently visited. 
"Whennvcr you rPad about Newport. il always nrnntions Cliff Walk." Cogliano said. "It has a spectacular vinw of the orr.an and an ocean view of tlw mansions." 
Don llamnwr. chairman of tlw r.ity Planning Board. volun­LnPrs collPrting trash 011 Llw Cliff Walk and hopes r<'pairs can bn don<' soon. 
So, what's your money market paying? Maybe it's time you checked out ours! NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION F'or People. Not for Profit. 219/239-6611 www.ndfcu.org 800/522--6611Jndependenl of the Universily ·s1s.ooo minimum opening de,:,osft, Annual Percentage Yield (APY) effectiYe as ot Sept. 6, 2000, APY 1s vanable. The APY w• change eaCO Wednesday to reflect the weekly treasury auction bond equwalent yiekf tor 91-day T-biUs If the dalt)' minimum balance fa.It, beklw $15,000 on any given day. ~@ a $7.00 monthly maintenance fee wtH be assessed against the account. thereby reducing eam,ngs. ~ LENDER  

Friday, September 8, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Arafat rejects Clinton's proposal 

he has hinted t!rn PLO's top Muslims would continue to Associated Press policy-making body. which worship st>parately and. it is will nrnkc the final decision, is hoped, without conl1ict. 
UNITED NA TlONS 
likely to delay such a procla­Even if Arafat accepted the 
!'alPstinian IPadr,r Vasser 
mation until later this year. proposal. east Jerusalem's 
Arafat has rrjrctrd a proposal 
Still. with no further meet­future would still be undecid­
bv l'rPsidPnt Clinton to split ings between Clinton and the t>d. At tht> Camp David summit r;introl of' Muslim and JP-wish 
two leaders scheduled -he in July, Barak offered the holy si lf~s 
met separately with Barak Palestinians local control of 
in 1:asl and Arafat on Wednesday -sonrn neighborhoods and sub­
.IPrusa!Pm. 
Clinton's No. l foreign policy urbs. but Arafat rejected the 
bul Uinwn 
goal was on the brink of dis­overture. insisting on sover­rrifus<'d to a::;wr. eignty over the entire part of ahn.ndon 
;\ra!'al is holding fasl for the city Israel won from 
his df'ort 
sovereignty ovf'r all of east Jordan in lhf> 1967 Mideast to con­
Jerusalem. while Barak said War. 
rludl' a 
Thursday he had "made it Still. the holy sites arc prnb­MidPast 
very clear that no Israeli ablv the central issue. and tho 
p (' It C n 
prime minister will ever be the<)ry is that settling disposi­accord. 
ablo to sign n document that tion of them could be the ,\ss,•1·ting hP n>uld not 
gives up the sovereignty over breakthrough toward an 
"bctrnv thf' Arabs.·· Arafat 
places like tho Temple Mount accord on Jerusalem. 
said: "( will rnntinue to libt>r­
to the Palestinians." Without commenting direct­atf' all tlw Islamic and Muslim 
Arafat, in a ly on the pro­holv places." 
CNN intf1r­posal. Barak 
,\lthoug-h Arn!'at's dismissal "! will continue to
view. said appeared
ol' tlw U.S. proposal dimmed 13aruk should liberate all the Islamic somewhat already fading hopes for an show resport receptive.
and Muslitit holy
agrt•emont, Clinton dirnctnd 
f O r "I have told 
his snnior nrndiator, Denn.is places."
Christianity President 
Hoss. to kef'p talking to Israeli 
and lslnm in Clinton that 
and Palestinian negotiators. 
Lhe negotia­Yassir Arafat some of the 
Clinton also stands ready to 
tions over ideas he has
Palestinian leader
plungi, into thn talks again. future of arc
Lhe raised 
although no mr.ctings involv­.lrwusalem. beyond what ing him have b,wn set. "The 
Clinton's attempt to bridge we believe we can accept, but prPsidPnt is available and 
the two positions would that if Chairman Arafat is 
PveryonP is quitn flexible." 
award sovereignty to the ready to take Clinton's ideas 
S1'lT!'tary or State Madeleine Pa!P.stinians over the two most as the basis for negotiations.
Albright said. 
sacred mosques on the we will be ready to contem­
"Whilr them has been no 
Temple Mount in east plate it and to enter into such 
breakthrough. there also is no Jerusalem and recognize negotiations," Barak said. 
breakdown," Albright said at 
Israeli sovereignty over the He assailed Arafat's rigid 
a nrws conferr.nce. 
Western Wall, the remnant of stand. underscoring that Arafat and Israeli Prime the Jewish temple destroyed Palestinians would attain 
Minister Ehud Rarak are still 
bv the Homans. Palestinian statehood with an agreement.rnmmitted to concluding a 
s<;urces said. "With all due respect," Barak snltlnmrnt. and "thev under­
The wall around the Temple told reporters, "when it comes 
stand thr time is· short," 
Mount and the enclosed area to a moment when Arafat is 
Clinton said. 
apart from the mosques on the verge of establishing,\raf'at has reserved the 
would be placed under divine his own state. it is not the 
right to proclaim Palestinian 
sovereignty. said the sources, right time to rewrite the histo­
stat<'hood without Israel's 
declining to be identified. ry of the great three monothe­blessing on St>pt. 13. although In practice. Jews and istic religions." 
JAMAICA 

Citizens angered over crime rates 
A,socia ted Press 

KINGSTON 
It was just before midnight whr.n two anned men robbed Dexter Hunter of his car, his wallet and his will to live in Jamaica. 
"My wife's been robbed, my kids have been robbed ... it's too much." the 43-yoar-old shopkeeper said. llis store has done badly as the economy has stagnated and his first payment each month is pro­tection money to a gang leader. 
"As soon as they drove away l said 'That's it. I'm leaving,"' Hunter said. 
It's a sentiment shared by many in Jamaica, a country of 
2.6 million where more than 600 people havr. been mur­dered so far this year. In com­parison, Chicago. a city of 2.7 million with the second high­est murder rate in the United States. had 641 killings last year. 
Angry citizens have bom­barded Jamaica's government with ideas of introducing the guillotine, lashing convicts and tattooing criminals. 
Prime Minister P.J. Patterson 
1990s alone murders jumped from under 500 to a high of more than 1.000 in 1997. 
Many Jamaicans say they would emigrat.P if given the chance. Most. like Hunter, would go to rnlatives in the United States while others would choose Britain, the for­mer colonial master. or Canada. 
"Crime is going to poison business ... It's tarnishing our reputation for tourism," said Gordon Stewart. who owns Sandals Hesorts International chain. "The tourism sector hasn't felt the full impact yet, but it's only a malt.er of time." 
Most of Jamaica's violent crime is centered in Kingston. the capital. But the number of murdt>rs have doubled in the northwestern parish of St. James, home to tourism capi­tal Montego Bay, from 19 this time last year to 39 so far this year. Robberies and shootings there are also up almost 50 percent. 
Still. overall reported crimes against tourists are down. from 70 in the first half of the year compared with 97 at the same point last year. Eighteen visitors were reportedly killed in Jamaica between 1989 and 
l 999. Police 
addressed the 
are trying to 

nation Sunday, "Crime is going to poison 
track down 
promising to 

business ... It's tarnishing a new York­
stem the 
based travel

our reputation for
"rampant 
writer who 

criminality." tourism." 
disappeared
He announced 
here in May.
efforts to stem 
Jamaica's

Gordon Stuart
the flow of 
persistent

resort owner
guns, a new 
crime cul­


police strike 
ture has its 
force to fight 
roots in the 

organized crime and said his 
1970s. when politicians
government will reintroduce 
helped organize and arm resi­
the death penalty. 

dents in poor neighborhoods,
Peter Moses. head of the 
producing rival armed gangs
Private Sector Organization of 
to intimidate voters. 
Jamaica -an umbrella group 
Labor Party leader Edward 

for manufacturers, distribu­
Seaga blamed the government
tors, exporters and others ­

Tuesday for extortion rackets 
said the economy's four-year 
and said Patterson's party was 
tumble combined with an offi­
arming "activists" -a code 
cial unemployment rate of 
name for gangsters -with 
16.3 percent are the 
licensed guns. The govern­
inevitable results of crime 
ment denied those allegations.
increases over 30 years. In the 
Cordially invites the University community to the presentation of the 
2000 Charles E. Sheedy Award for Excellence in Teaching 
to 

Professor Reginald Bain Department of Film, Television and Theatre 
4:00 p.m., Friday, September 15th Snite Museum, Annenberg Auditorium 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
ATHENS, GREECE 
INFO.RM"ATION MEETING 
With .Julliet Mayinja, Assistant Director International Study Progra1ns And Returning Students 
Tuesday, September 12, 2000 
4:45 PM 210 DeBartolo 

page 10 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 8, 2000 GUATEMALA 
Scientists unearth Mayan marketplace in Guatemala City 
., 
Knights of Columbus 
Associated Press 
GUATEMALA CITY 
It was a sprawling Mayan mall. built 24 centuries before there wrn, a Starbucks. a (iap or 
a. food court to fill it. 
1;uatemalan and American sci­cntisLr.; working deep in thci jun­gles of' northern Guatemala have discovered "Canr.uen," n lost r,ity that. !'or more than l .200 ye1ars bq{inning in 400 B.C., was one of tlw most important r.ommer­d,d r.nntPrs of Lh<' Mayan world. 
Th<• ('ity. whirh scientists beliC'W will takP IO yrars lo f'ully unrarth. f1>aturns a. 270,000­squarn-foot Mayan palacl' with t.hn·,~ (,(i foot-high floors and 170 rooms. making it among on<1 or th<' most grandiosP Mayan stnr<'.· turns Pver disroVPrl'd. Nalional (;pographic Socil•ty announced Friday. 
The sod<ity is a <'.hiet' sponsor of' tlw Cant'll!'ll PX!'avation pro­j11ct. 
"We start!'d off working with what wn thought was a small palacn. part of' a small Mayan settl1\mPnt." said Arthur Dnmercst. a Vanderbilt Univl'rsity archaPologist and hnad of tlrn Canrurn project. "What wn f'ound was a palacn 20 times as large as wn were nxpecling and an important Mayan marketplace Lhat had been forgollen for almost I00 Yf\1trs... 
The 5-sqtrnrP-mile city i'na­turnd a r.rowdrd rectangular layout of' stone walls, 11 spa­cious stone-tiled patios. and 
Council 14 77 Est. 1910 


buildings with r.ubbyhole-likc city of Tikal, 8 5 miles to the rooms and thick. multileveled northeast. roots. Cancuen, an ancient Maya 
While Demerest said scientists word meaning "Place of the aren't sure how many Mayan Serpent." became a key trading merchants called Cancuen post because it featured a dor.k home, it is thought to have on the River Passion in what attracted thousands of traders today is southern Peten, from nearby highland settle­Guatemala's northernmost ments, inr.luding the majestic province. Oemerest said. 
First discovered in 1905 by Austrian explorer Tobert Maler, scientists and looters ignored the site because it appeared to be devoid of treasure and artifact­laden temples and burial sites. 
"A city that was built only for commercial purposes and not for religious ones seenwd unin­teresting to a lot of academir.s 
ragging rights. 
Colegiate Olympic MedaJ Race is on! the tally With the GE College Medal nty on t!fa@l:Ympics,com. 
and worthless to a lot of looters," Demerest said. The city is now overrun with jungle-dwelling animals like howler monkeys. 
Cancuen was devoid of' the breathtaking temph~s that domi­nate Tikal and other Mayan sites because its inhabitants buried their dead in surrounding high­land areas. 
CHARITIES 
Corvilla Gibault School Holy Cross Missions Hannah House Women's Care Center Holy Cross Assoc. Holy Family relief services St. Vincent De Paul society St. Joe Valley right to life Catholic Charities Logan Center Homeless Center Marian High School St. Joseph High Dismas House Big Bros. & Sisters Special Olympics 
S.O.S. Vocations Life Treatment Center G.H.L Hope Rescue Mission Disaster Relief Christ child soc. Holy Cross Vocations ND Bengal Bouts Toys for Children Morality in Media 
Totals 
$11,000 $11,000 $6,000 $2,500 $2,500 $1,500 $1,500 $1,500 $600 $500 $500 $400 $400 $400 $400 $400 $300 $300 $250 $240 $200 $200 $100 $100 $100 $60 
$50 
$43,000 
-----------------------------------------------------------,
-
; ' ... 

Friday, September 8, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Judge rules for fetus, forces 01other into state custody 
gation. "l want to live. l don't want to die. I don't undergo medical procedures to benefit 
Associated Press 
Prosecutors and a court-appointed want to die like my brother, Jeremiah, did," their born children," said ACLU attorney lawyer for the fetus askPd Judge Kenneth Nasif said, according to Gerald FitzGerald. Sarah Wunsch. "It certainly cannot force aATl'LEBOHO. Mass Nasif on Thursday to a prosecutor who pregnant woman to be treated on behalf of A judgr. Thursday ordered a pregnant 
keep Corneau in state "[The law] cannot force attended the closed her fetus." 
member of a fundamentalist sect held in custody for her safety a pregnant woman hearing. The woman's husband. David Corneau. is state custody until her baby is born. saying and that of her unborn The woman has among eight sect members in jail for refus­
he could sense what the fetus would say to to be treated on
r,hild. The judge obliged. refused to have an ing to cooperate in an investigation of the him: "I don't want to die like my brother." 
extending his custody behalfofherfetus. " attorney. sect that includes the disappearance andHebecr.a Corneau, 32, was ordered order 30 days or until The American Civil presumed death of another <:hild.
placAd in a sAcure institution for pregnant the r,hild is born. Liberties Union sup­The Attleboro-based grbup of Christian
Sarah Wunsch 

women last week because she refused to Corneau is believed to ported her Thursday, fundamentalists consists of about two 
consent Lo a wurl-ordcrcd medical exami­ACLU attorney
be eight and one half saying in a friend of the dozen adults and ·children from related nation. I!er sec:t rejer.ts r.onventional medi­months pregnant. court brief that the rul­families. The group tear-hes that womencine a._<; blasphemy. 
The judge said he ing deprives Corneau of should honor their husbands as second only She is suspected of covering up the death wuld sense what the child would say to her constitutional right to privacy. to God, rej11cting government, organizedof her .last child in a ca.c;e still undPr investi­him. "The law does not require parents to religion. banking, science and medicine. 

Pternium Ftozen Tteats! 

Campus Shoppes 1837 South Be11dAve. Solllh Be11d, IN 4 663 7 (219) 271-9540 
(Jusf East or Notre D11mc) 
http://h~:1lth.rr~e-11fcno"'.cont/its,-ogurt

-~-------------------~ 

~-J~t .:~~~
~ FREE' ,~·
c.-.V e <tS"l. 
~~ -~~-­
Get a FREE regular or large cup or cone of frozen yogurt when you buy a regular large cup or cone of frozen yogurt of equal or greater value. 
G..ilool111iuloaliooli11,d, ~otnlid,ithm7,th.roffu. Sofi,,mocly. Wdlleconeatn:T,pp"'5'cxtn. Eipir., 9/30/00 
Stowaway search ends aboard ship 
Associated Press 
UNALASKA. Alaska. 

Coast Guard and immigration officials ended their search Thursday after efforts to find the source of a mysterious pounding sound aboard a ship diverted to this mid-Aleutians port came up empty. 
No signs of any stowaways were found during searches Jato Wednesday and Thursday of 17 of the 1,556 cargo containers on the 860-foot Manoa. 
"We are calling off our opera­tion. We found no evidenr,e of stowaways," said Mike Conway, deputy director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in A.laska. "I think every­one is pretty well satisfied that we have done everything we could." 
The first container to be searched was the one into which crew members punched an air hole and lowered food and water inside after hearing the tapping Sunday. 
A phalanx of INS agents, U.S. Customs Service agents, Coast 
~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1-!!!_ ~-~ -~~=·--~.
7 
I 
I 
I 
! l 
I I 
I 
1 
I 
__ I 

MACEO'S 
ON MICHIGAN 123 NORTH MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND, IN 
NO COVER CHARGE! 

DIRECTLY BEHIND THE MARRIOTT 3 T.V.'S CATCH COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION!!! 
FINALLY LIVE REGGAE JAKE'S PIZZA EVERY THURSDAY AVAILABLE HERE 
SPECIALS ALL NIGHT LONG 
LIVE BLUES THIS FRIDAY ·· FEATURING THE ELWOOD SPLINTERS BAND 
PLEASE NOTE: YOU MUST BE 21 YEARS OF AGE TO ENTER MACEO's. 
L_ --·--. ~~"====~=~ =·-. -.. --------------­
Guard personnel. local police, explain what the crew had medics and longshoremen heard. descended on the cargo dock "I believe the crew heard tap­shortly after the vessel arrived ping. I think they were very sin­Wednesday night. cere about that," Conway said. "I 
More than 40 <:ontainers slowly think the captain's very sincere were removed from the vessel. about that or he would not have They were examined inside a diverted it here." maintenance warehouse under The cargo container had been tight security where armed offi­taken aboard in Qingdao. China, 
cers carefully  and  was  
searched the contents, Coast  "/ believe the crew heard  among more than 200  
Guard spokes­ tapping. I think  loaded  in  
w o m a n Marsha Delaney said.  they were very sincere about that."  China, offi­cials from the shipping  
"Nothing was  company APL  
found out of the ordinary not listed on the manifest,"  Mike Conway deputy director of the Immigration and Naturalization  said. The inci­dent renewed concern  
Delaney said.  Service in Alaska  about stow­ 

"lt was a r,are­fu I. thorough search." 

The manifest listed its cargo as 56,000 pounds of human hair to be made into wigs. Officials found no stowaways and the hamburg­ers that had been slipped inside bv the crew were untouched. 
· A second container taken from the same area of the ship con­tained only machine tools. A third turned up chemir,als and another shipment of human hair. but there were no signs of human habitation. 
Eight containers were unloaded and searched com­pletely. Nine others were opened. smelled and examined. 
Officials were at a loss to 
aways and human smug­gling attempts on the West Coast. 
"Human cargo is much more lucrative than drugs right now," Conway said. 
Over the past 18 months, 303 people have been taken into cus­tody after being found aboard containers from cargo ships bound for Seattle, Los Angeles. Vancouver. British Columbia, and other ports, INS officials said. 
Three people were found dead inside a container on a ship that arrived in Seattle in January. Fifteen survivors found in the container remain in the United States pending reviews of their asylum requests. 
International Study Programs 

INFORMATION MEETING FOR SANTIAGO, CHILE With Bridget Green _ Student Returnees 
Tuesday September 12, 2000 215 DeBartolo 4:45 PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: October 1, 2000 for Spring 2001 
Friday , September 8, 2000 

page 12 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

.l"""''~',,·,di'~. . . ..,,.,..,.,....__,,.,....% . 

VO ,,,,!: '?:; 
,: lli 
.fl:J 
~ fl ' . ~•:~~=\ti:f:f:?:w~-i':;;::-:tt:.::~~-j1 
J 
,.. fi'.,,7-,;"fffe'""
i:~..
•,:.:f;::-:·;·
-~---: 

_.::-,t~,: ·-.1~.-... . ·'::.::,:;-. 
#22 NOTRE DAME #4NEBRASKA 
Friday, 4:00 pm * Joyce Center 
Pack the Joyce Center for the first Notre Dame­Nebraska upsetofthe weekend! 
f · ' SUB
First 200 students receive a B 1rr;1p1e~PARTY! One dorm will win a Papa Johns Pl 

Sat. #22NOTRE DAME vs. #3UCLA 7:00 pm 
Sun. #22NOTRE DAME vs. #76Michigan St. 3:00 pm 
* First 500 receive a free t-shirt! Win Chicago Bears tickets! Chance to win a Meljer shopping spree and gift certificate! 

Fri. #2 NOTRE DAME vs. #3 Santa Clara 7:30 ptn 
* First 500 fans re,~eive a free mini soccer ball! 
Sun. #2 NOTRJE DA1\1E vs. #7 Stanford 1:00 pm 
*First 150 students with ID receive free admission to ~~ Friday & Saturday's gatnes * <>,r
ad1das 
' 
' 
Friday, September 8, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Senate closer to China decision 
Associated Press 
WASIJINGTON 
St>1rn!P supporters of pcrma­ncn t normal trade relations with China succeeded Thursday in defoating what they rPgard­nd as killer anw.ndmcnts, set­ting th" stage for final passage ot' t!w legislation nc•xt wock. 
Tlw Senate by wide margins rl'jP1'tl'd thrP1; amendments Lhal would haw n~quired thn bill to bP Sl'nt ba,·k to tlw JloUSP, which passPd it in May, !'or funlrnr consideration. Su pportl'rs said that with only a month Ir.ft brl'on, Congrnss plans to adjourn for tlw year, any c·hanges in tlw bill now would doom iL. 
SPnill.l' kacfors on Thursday also discussed how to deal with 
a possible amendment by Sens. afler a 92-5 vote to move ahead FrPd Thompson, R-Tenn., and with the bill that could result, Robert Torricelli, D-N.J.. mak­in line with China's accession to ing it easier to impose sanc­the World Trade Organization, tions on China and other r:oun­in signilicantly lower tariffs for tries which deal in weapons of Amerir:ans selling goods in Lhe mass destruction. Chinese market. 
Onr, idea was ·bringing the If the United States does not 
popular  approve  per­ 
Thompson measure up as sppa­rate legis­ "Our country is not ind~fferent to the suffering ofmillions ofChinese u•ho  manent trade status, it would not be eligible for thf' lower  
lation nr,xt week af'Lr,r  face religious persecution."  tariffs that will go into effoct  
the  Lradr.  when  China  
bill passP.s.  Paul Wellstone  enters  the  
Senat<'  senator, D-Minn.  WTO.  

sourcns said then' was some opposition to this approach and that there was no final dnrision. 
The legislative action bflgan 


~ 
LO\VEST RATES IN MICHIANA 
.r CLEAN CARS AND VANS ..,. LOW FLAT RATES TO O'HARE & MIDWAY ..,. RESERVATION ACCEPTED BY PHONE OR AT 
WWW.CITYCAB-SB.COM 
CALL YOUR FRIENDLY TEAM AT 
L~~LLl!Ll! 
24 HOUR SEBVICE 
In addition to 

the weapons proliferation issue, critics of the Beijing government argued that normal trade with China should be linked to improvemrmts in China's human rights record. 
Sens. Jesse Helms, H-N C .. and Paul \Vellstone, D-Minn., offered an amendment requir­ing the president to certify that China was allowing religious freedom before it could rer.eive normal trade status. 
Wrllstone said the amend­ment was needed to "prove that our country cares deeply about religious freedom and our rountrv is not indifferent Lo the suffering of millions of Chinese who face religious persecu­tion." 
Helms said it "tells the rest of the world that we Americans still stand for something, some­thing other than profits, that is." 
The amendment was defeat­ed 69-28. 
A second. bv Sen. Hobert Byrd, D-W.va·.. would have required the United States to support the transfer of clean energy technology as part of any energy assistance to China. It went down 65-31. 
page 13 

Journalists condemn posing federal agents 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The American Society of Newspaper Editors r:on­demnod Thursday Lhe use of press credentials by under­cover federal agents posing as journalists aL a trial in Idaho last week. 
In letters to Attorney General Janet Reno and FBI Dirf'ctor Louis Freeh, llichard Oppel, president of the Heston. Va.-based ASNE, called tho tactics an "affront to working journalists." 
"If citizens believe that members of the media may be investigators for rcderal state or local agendes, jour­nalists will be placed at risk and will be unable to do our jobs," Oppel said. 
The civil trial in Coeur d'Alene. Idaho, 30 miles east of Spokane. was broughl by two people suing the Arvan Nations and its of'ficcr0s for damages in a 1998 confrontation in whir:h a mother and son were assaulted and shot at by Arvan Nations security guards. Small groups of white supremacists and skinheads have been gath­rring outside the courthouse to voice support for the Aryan Nations. 
More than 90 journalists have received credentials to cover the event. 
The local sheriffs depart­ment revoked media r:reden­tials issued to seven photog­raphers on Aug. 30 after learning they were under­cover agents for the FBI and the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco and Firearms. The agents wore photographers' vests, glasses, hats and car­ried camera equipment as they monitored the activities of supporters of the nco­Nazi Aryan Nations. 
The FRI issued a state­ment Friday acknowledging its agents wflre present at tho trial. But spokesman Bill Matthews in Salt Lake City wouldn't comrnflnt on whether agents had posed as journalists. 
"The Salt Lake City divi­sion has a legal and legiti­mate interest in the public ar:tivities currently taking place at Coeur d'Alene, Idaho," Matthews read from a statement. 
The agency's ar:tions are "in full complianr:c with tlrn law and appropriate U.S. Department of Justic11 guidelines and policies," Matthews said. 
A sheriff's captain origi­nally suggestP.d the agents seek media credentials so they could blend into the crowds around the court­house. The r:rcdentials were yanked after journalists romplained. 
Oppel charged that local 
officials had not considerPd 
tlrn matter serious. _ 
"It is this kind or assump­
tion that leads to this sort of 
tactic time and timn again," 
he said. 
The Society of Professional 
Journalists sent a similar 
letter on Sept. 1 to Freeh, 
Reno and President Clinton 
demanding an investigation 
and punishment for the 
agents. 

Buy /Sell/Trade Nebraska Wanted Preferred Tickets 234-5650  
Inrernariona/ Srucly Programs 2.10 Security Bldg. If Fr. Sorin's dream for The Universi-ty had really come 'true we may now be known as 'the Fighring French not the F/gh ting Irish Discover 'the REAL roots of the Universit'e de Not're Dame du Lac by studying in FRANCE The Universi-ty of No'l're Dame Program in ANGERS J:nforma'tion Session Tuesday, September 12 4:45 De Bartolo 318  


friday, September 8, 2000

page 14 , The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


(?MPUS/\/11NISTRY 
Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
Nebraska Football Weekend September 9-10, 2000 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game 
Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am Sacred Heart 
Parish Crypt 6:00, 7:oo, s:oo, 9:30 & 11:00 am 
Friday, Septembc:r 8, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 15 
Poll: Bush, Gore running close race 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Al Gore continues to show strength on issuns like edur,a­tion. health rare anrl the er:ono­my and has opened a double­digit Iliad among wonrnn, new polls suggest. But the head-to­hnad matr:huµ with GP.orge W. Bush rnmains close. 
ThP ABC-Washington Post poll shows Gore has opened up a 50­38 advantage on education, and has a slight edge on managing the economy and Social Security. Gorn has double-digit leads on improving the health cam sys­tem and protecting the environ­ment. Bush has an edge on hold­ing duwn taxes and handling national defense. 
13 u s h 
retains an 

Demorrat "People have got to advantage on Gore and perr:eptions
understand it's going to
Hepublir,an of his strong
Bush were vir­be a tight race. " leadership tually tied in and appeal­two new polls ing personal­
George W. Bush

rcl<\ased ity. But Gore
presidential candidate

Thursdav. has erased 
Corn led 47 pPrcent to 44 percent among likely voters in a CNN-USA Today-Gallup poll. 130th candi­dates were tied at 47 pnrcent in an ABC-Washington Post poll of likelv voters. 
"l;eoplr have got to under­stand it's going to be a tight race." Bush said in Detroit amid rPports that Republicans were growing nervous about his cam­paign. 
Bush and Gore both had about nine of 10 votes from their own parties and were about split among independents in the CNN­USA Today-Gallup poll. 
When people were asked whether they would vote for the D•~morrat or Republican candi­datP in their congressional dis­trict. they split al 46 percent for each party. 
Bush's 
advantage on 
trust, !raving the two even on that quality. Bush. of' late. has questioned Gore's trustworthiness on the stump and in ads. Gore has a healthy lead on the qualities of caring about the !Pss fortunate and having the knowledge of world affairs to serve effectively. 
While 1iush held about a 20­point lead among men, Gore has opened up an 18-point lead among women in the ABC-Post 
poll. . "Bush had them because he lalked about education,'' said Gore pollster Stan Greenberg. "And people were nervous about IDemocratsJ because of the last two years [White House scandal]. But Gore made a powerful impression on them at the Democratic convention." 

Bush announces new strategy, slogan 
Associated Press 
DAYrDN. Ohio 
Pelted with unsolicited advice from worried Republicans, George W. Bush promised Thursday to retool his White House campaign. It included a n('W slo­gan. "Real plans for real peo­ple," and far more interaction with voters. 
The shift came as his team searr:hed for ways to stem an advance that has allowed Democrat Al Gore to erase Hush's once-formidable lead and even pull ahead in some polL5. "I am the underdog," Hush said. as Hepublican leaders urged him to go on the offensive, stop talking about r:ampaign tac­tics and polish the way he pre­sent.5 issues to the public. 
"There's not a single one ofus that's not discouraged," said Tom Slade, a former Florida leg­islator and state GOP chairman. "We had a 15, 20 point lead. We were just whistling down the street, and now we're whistling past the graveyard." 
Bush at first bristled over the advice, calling his Republican critics few in number, "ner­vous," and "ready to jump out of the foxhole before the first shell is fired." 
"That's Washington. I'm used to that kind of politics out of Washington," he said. 
But then he conceded that some changes were in order ­and others alrPady under way. "We're listening," Bush spokes­woman Karen Ilughes said. "vVe know it is well-intentioned. Republicans want to win." 


Bush said he would do more town hall meetings -a format used heavilv bv Core to his advantage, but rarely used by the GOP candidate HP also sig­naled new flexibility on presi­dential debates. While saying he still preferred his own schedule, he no longer appeared to be insisting upon it. 
"It'll be worked out. I want there to be debates. The more who watch the better," he told reporters under the wing of his campaign plane in Detroit. 
A senior Dush strategist, speaking on condition or anonymity, said the campaign miscalculated by assuming Gore would be condemned tor reneg­ing on his pledge to debate "any­where, anytime." Instead. Bush was accused of ducking debates by proposing NBC and CNN ses­sions and accepting only one of three proposed matchups by the Commission on Presidential Debates. 
The Texas governor also sug­gested he might spend less time talking on camera to reporters on his airplane and more in front of audiences. 
Hughes, the Bush spokes­woman, said the retooling included the introduction of a new slogan, "Real Plans for Real People." The move recalls the last major overhaul of Bush's campaign after he lost New Hampshire's GOP primary and abruptly rolled out a "Reformer with Results" slogan to counter rival John McCain's maverick image. 
The new slogan attempts to answer Gore criticism that Bush hasn't relea.sed enough details of his plans to help Americans. 
Hughes also said that Bush would do more retail politicking -far more meeting with voter "in coffee shops and cafeterias" and fewer rallies. 
Additionally, she said. the r,ampaign would start offering Republican governors -mostly from battleground statrJs -for Sunday network interview shows instead of campaign ofli­cials like herself. 
Bush allies in the GOP, keep­ing the pressure on Gore. plan to air a new ad, with the cam­paign's approval. that reminds voters of the 199b campaign finance reform scandals and questions Gore's edur:ation agenda, sources familiar with discussions about the ad cam­paign said on Thursday. 
Advice by senior Republicans on stopping Gore's rise varied. 
Michigan Gov. John Engler want.,; Bush to avoid looking like he is reacting to Gore. 
"Get on the offensive. Don't be defensive." Engler sairl. pointing with pleasure to an ongoing series of GOP ads that question Gore's character. 
A number of Republicans. including Bush's own advisers, said he needs to stop talking about the process of politics ­such as discussing debates and even telling reporters he would retool his campaign. 
He should focus instead on tax cut.-,, education, Medicare. Social Security and other campaign issues, said Wisconsin Cov. Tommy Thompson. 

ST.I\IIIC:U:AEL'S LAUNDRY ~ DRY CLEANING-. .. 
A. T:RA.DITI<>N CC>NTINUES... 
• DRY CLEANING & EXPRESS LAUNDRY FOR THOSE SPECIAL ITEMS 
• TAILORING SEAMSTRESS AT LAUNDRY DISTRIBUTION CENTER ON CAMPUS 
• BUNDLE SERVICE WEEKLY DORM PICK UP 
• SUMMER STORAGE NO NEED TO DRAG WINTER GARMENTS HOME 
TAKE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO SIGN A FALL CONTRACT 
ONLY $80.00 TO RECEIVE $100.00 IN ANY OR ALL OF THESE FINE SERVICES! 
THAT'S $20.00 OF FREE SERVJ:CES! 
HOWEVER.., REMEMBER YOU DO NOT NEED TO BUY A CONTRACT TO USE OUR SERVICES -ALL TRANSACTIONS CAN BE CHARGED TO YOUR STUDENT ACCOUNT 
FEEL FREE TO STOP BY OR CALL THE LAUNDRY DISTRJBUTION CENTER LOCATED ON THE CORNER OF HOLY CROSS DRIVE & SOR.IN COURT M-F 8:00 A.M. -4:30 P.M. 631-7565 
page 16 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 8, 2000 
INDONESIA 
Slain UN worker's fam.ily wants answers after Tiillor raid 
Associau,d P re•s 
SAN .JUAN. PuPrto Hir.o 
Their son is dP.ad -and 
the f'amilv of' tht> American 
relit~!' wm:ker slain in a mili­
Li a-lod rnmpugP in \\ est 
Ti111or wants answPrs from 
llw UnitPd Nations and 
Indonesia: Whv was Carlos 
Can~res allcl\~ed to work 
wiLlrnul proteniun 1•ven 
al'tPr hn rncPivPd a death 
lhreat? 
"Thnv should hnvP got him out of' therr:· LhP vie­tim's falher, Gregorio Cac:erns. told The Assor.iaL1cd Press i'rorn his 
honw in Ja,:ksonvill{\, Fla., on Thursdav 
;\ mob Ind bv rnilitianwn stormPcl the ·u.N. offict' \\led ,rnsd av in Atambua, Wost Tim<>r, and killed thr£rn U.N. aid workers ­including Caceres. 33. who was born in San .Juan. 
Witni•ssos said militiamen 
brat and stabbed thP thrnr, 
l'ornign nwn bef'orP mutilat­
ing their bodies and burn­
ing llrnm in the strPct. 
Otlrnr U.N. workers were 
r.ut bv maclrntes and axes 
bul c;cap1!d 
l•'.arliPr WednPsday. Caccrns sr.nt an e-mail to a frknd. a U.N. securitv offi­cial in Mar:Pdonia. s·aying hr had iward that "a wave of violr.ncP would soon pound i\tambua. 
"We sit herr. likP bail. unarnwd," he wrote. "We are waiting for the enemy." 
Can~res had Pxpectrd to bfl evacuated wPeks before, said his father. who last saw his son on a Christmas visit in Florida. Caceres last l!!lnphonnd his father Aug. 
26. 
"I was in fear frll' him. He lold me, 'Dad, as we speak there is danger.... lie told me he was going to evacu­ate himself and his r,o­workers from that location to another lncation because of' the danger," Gregorio Caceres said. 
"One of' the questions I havr. !'or thP. United Nations -and I spoke to them yes­terday and today -I asked: I le knew Im was in danger and he told mP he was going to b11 evacuc1.ted. What happened'?" 
The father said a GenPva official of' the U.N. High Commissioner for Hefugecs told him the United Nations had evacuated its workers two weeks earlier and onlv sent them back aftt>r lh;\ Indonesian govr,rnmPnl promisnd its soldil'l's would 1\nsurP tlwir safoty. 
UNIICB spokPsman Kris .lanowski noted thl' aid opPration has been rrpeat­1• d I y shut down after ,Ltlacks by militia gangs on its staff and buildings in 
rnr.nnt months and that SC'V­
('rnl workl'rs rer11ived d1iath th mats. 
"Tlrnrp's alwavs. !'or us. llw dilemma of s'triking tlw right balancP bntwnen !wip­ing lhn prn>ple in nPPcl and putting our own staff al risk," Janowski said. "In Arnmbua on Wf•dnesdav this balann\ was upset and WI' sufforPd the Wllrst in<'i­clrinl in UNIICH's history." 
Tht> UN I!CH had rnr;•ived warning-of possibli· troubh~ and was assured bv lndon1~sian sprurily forcps that ag1'ncy staff would be 
protected. But witnesses said Indonesian troops stood by during the attack. 
World leaders at the Millennium Summit at the United Nations castigated Indonesia, an embarrass­ment to visiting Indonesian Pn~sidcnt Abdurrahman 
Wahid. 
Carlos Caceres had told his family that he knew somr. mililia leaders were close to Indonesian army commanders. He said hc onr.C' saw a militia leader giving an order to Indonesian troops. called TNI. lie also said that the IndnnPsian military had ignon~d him wht>n hci said hf' had received a dP.ath lhrr.at from a militia leader. 
"Despite the fuct that over 70 TNI and police person­nnl were prPsent at the scPnc. it is known that one refugee was beaten ... by militia clements." Caceres told his family. 

Source: Comoiled from AP wire reoorts 

College is an art and a science. Soon eru:mgh, you'll discover the proper course ofstudy is figuring out the brave new world while expending as little effort as possible. Which brings us to the subject of Compu.Bank. 
CompuBank isn't just around the corner. It's right in your room. Right on your computer. You get free basic checking, free savings and access to free ATM net­works. You get a Compu.Bank check card to use any 


Wm. J. Castello, S. Hoffmann/AP 0 
§ 8
s: 
I ~ 
7­
z 
~ 

And, when yau run aut of money about every other week, your mom and clad can wire you more --free. 
Log on to www.CompuBank.com CTick on Circle of FriendsTM to learn how you can earn $40 for each friend you refer who opens and funds a Compu.Bank account. You can open an account right on.line and approval can happen within minutes. 
Have you ever tried swallowing a goldfish! 
rrid.1y, Sep,embn 8, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 17 
Judge: Corporal punishDient bad for inillates, taxpayers 
Associated Press 
lli\TON HOU(;E_ La. Louisiana officials agTf'(1d to Pnd corporal punishnwnt in 
tlwi1· juwnilr prisons as part of a planned settlnnwnt Thursday to a lhli>ral lawsuit alleging an aLmospht'rl! nf brutality and rwg!Prt. 
Tim .lusticP Dllparlnwnl nI<~d tlw luwsuil two ynars ago claim­ing y!Jung inmalPs Wt'r<' b1·att\ll by guards, d1'nicd adrquatr nwdiral nu·(•.. and altiu-kcd and s1•,111dly assaulted by other 
inmalt\s. 
Whi111 th<' stall' does not admit that any ol" thl' allq,;ations arc tr111•, llw sl'lt!Pnwnt plan calls for morl' sup1'rvision of the pris­ons and their guards and limita­g-uards to Pnsure that reports of tiDns 011 their bPhavior. abuse and injurh~s will not be 
U.S. llistrict Judgr Frank invf1stigated hy th<> guards Polozola hd't littlr. doubt ar:cuscd of thr. behavior. 
Thursday that he will givn his approval to th<' S<'ltlr.­ment plan noxL month. "This plan ... will probably be a model !'or some ot.hPr statr.s to adopt." he saict. 


Specializing in Italian Cuisine 
1213 Lmcolnway \YJest, Mishawaka Huurs: Mon.-Sat. 5-10 pm, Sun. Closed 
Piz:a and Pasta Specials for Stullents and Families on Monday-Thursday, 5-7 rm ­
Receive ,1 10<¾1 discount on Pasta with this ad Fcawring a full service ht't'cragc 1nc•n1t Banquet ruums available 
'This is going to help ensure that these young men and women have an opportunity tn do something productive with their lives." 
Richard Stalder Corrections Commissioner 
The state will estab­lish a data­base to track abu­sive guards and will make sure the statr hot line to report abus­es is work­ing. The Justice 

productive responsP to
"This is a very good 
with their acrusalions lives," Stalder first step. " that femalP said. guards had 
Inmate David Utter sex with advocates said inmatr,s at
director, 
they hope the the now­
Juvenile Justice Project of 
settlement will closed .Jena
Louisiana
solve the prob-Juvenile 
IP ms. but added that enforcement of the points reached in the agreement is important. 
"This ls very good first step," saict David Utter, direr:tor of the Juvfrnile Justice Project of Louisiana. which also suf'd Louisiana on behalf of young prisoners. 
Among the other parts of the settlement, the state will con­
.Justice 

Center Heports from Jfma detailed alle­gations of prisoners who muti­lated themselves so they would be sent to the infirmary and avoid being strong-armed for sex or their food. 
The settlement provides restrictions on isolating inmates. The lawsuit alleged inmates were held in solitary confine­ment for long periods of time. 
In addition to providing J'or an Pnd to wrporal punishment. tlrn s<'ltfom,,nt puts in place safo­

l>Pparlment said some tele­phones in the prisons didn't work. while othArs had the wrong phone number listed for the hot lirn~. 
Trained independent investi­gators will visit each prison. and thP state will do criminal back­ground chAcks of all prison employees. Certain areas of the prisons always will be vidAo­taped. 
Staff mcmbf'rs will be trained on the r:onstitutional rights of earh prisoner and nonviolent means of punishing them. The state will institutr. restrictions on 
how guards can restrain inmates. 
Corrections Commission<'r Richard Stalder said he was pleased that negotiations had ended, and culled the outcome a "reasonable" agreemPnt for the slate, taxpayers anu teen pris­onPrs. 
"This is going to help ensure that these young men and women haw~ an opportunity to do somFJthing 
tract with the LSU School of Medicine to provide all medical. dental anct mental health sr.r­vices for the inmatrs. The med­ical and mental health workers will not be employees ol' the Department of Public Safety and Corrections. but will be LSU employees. 
remalc staf'f will not be allowed in arras wlrnrr male inmates are showering or are 
naked. in 

VIEWPOlNT 
O
THE page 18 BSERVER Friday, September 8, 2000 
·--~ -------------:::_=.=---=--::::---::::---::::---::::---::::---::::---::::---::::---=---=--===-=-~=-=-=-=--=--=-============================:-==-=-=-=-=-=--=:-================== 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !fox Q, Notre Dame. IN 465>6 024 South D111111g H,,11, Notre Dome, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIEF Mike Connolly 
MANA<;tNG EDITOR  8!JS!NESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gille,pie  Tim Lane  
Assr. MANi\t,ING EonoR  OrLRATIO:-JS MANAGER  
C:bri.,rinc Kraly  kria11 Kessler  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Matt111gly VffwrolNT EDITOR: I il:1 Haughey SronTs Enrron, KN'}' Smith ScF.Nf EDITOR: ,-\rnanda c;,cco SAINI' MARY'S E1>1TOR: Molly McVoy 1'11010 EDITOR: F.lizahcrh l.Jng 
AllVERflSING MANM,ER: l'ar l'eter;. AD 1)1-$11:!'i MANA«;ER: Chri~ Avila SnTFMS Al>MINISTRATOR: Mike Gunvillc Wf.11 Al>MINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTR<11.1.rn: ttob Woods GnArUICS EunoR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFr!Cf MANAGFR/G!:Nt.RAI INFO.............(131-7471 l'Ax ......................................................... 631-(,927 A1>VElff!SINC....................................(,.31-(,900/884() 
uhservcr@,brwin.cc. nd .edu EmT<>R IN Cl11n.............. .....................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME............ .....631-4541 BUSINESS Oi'F!CE ....................................... 631-5313 NEWS. ..............631-5323 
ohservcr.obsnews. l@nd.edu V11·:Wr01NT................................................631-5303 ohservcr.vicwpoim. l@n,i.edu Sl'ORTS ... ............................................ 6.31-4543 
observer.sports. l@ml.edu SCENE.......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. t@nd.edu 
SA1Nr MARY'S...........................................631-4324 
ohserver.smc. l@nd.edu l'IIOTO............... .. ................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AllMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
\·i,it our W,·h site at http:llobserver.ndedu for daily UJH.fates ofcampm news, sports, teaturcs .md opinion columns. as well ;is cartoons, reviews and breaking news from tilt" Associated Press. 
SlJRI' TO: 
movies/n1usic tOr
weather for up-10-the 
weekly student reviews
minute fr,rt'casts 
online features for spe­
a<lvenise fr,r policies 
cial campus coverage
and rares of print Jds 
archives 10 search for 
abom The Observer 
.micles published ;ifrer 
10 meet the editors rnd 
August 19')') 
suff 
POLICIES 
Th,· Observer i, the indepen,lrnr, daily newspaper puhli,hed in prim and lmlinr by che s1udenrs ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comc~ll, including advertisements, is nm governed hy policies of the Jdministration ofeither inscimtion. The Ohscrv,·r reserve., the right co refuse .1dver1isemcnts h:iscd on comcnr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Umigned editorials represent the opinion of rlw majority of the Ediror in ( :hid; Managing Editor, Assis1an1 Managing Ediwr ,md dcp:mment editors. Commcnt.1rics, \enc rs and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe ( Jhservcr. 
Vim-point space is ,ivailahle to all re,idrrs. The free expression of all opinion, through leucrs is encouraged. l.c11crs w 1hc Editor n,u.r be .,ii:;ncd and mus1 include mn1ac1 information. 
()ur.rt,om regt1rrli11t 01,iervn policir, slimdd hr dirrct• ,,/to 1-.i!itor ;,, O,;,fM,k, Com,o/~y. 
Cheering responsibly is the key 
The most lasting imagr~ of the 2000 pride in victory. Cheering, chanting, NCAA men's basketball championship face-painting and clapping show support was not Mateen Cleaves hoisting the tro­for tho team and bring pride to rampus. phy above his head after the Spartans' Taunting, mocking and destruction will virtorv, but detract from tho Irish inste,id it was victory.
Qt.The 
Michigan State Through enthusiastic
userver 
students rioting in crowd noise, the fans the strneL,; of East can play an acLive rol,: in Lansing. The last­the outcome of
Editorialing image of Notre Saturday's game. The Danm's victory fans, however, should against Nebraska Saturday should not never take attPntion awav from the be of Notrn Dame students rioting in the efforts on the field. • streets of Soulh lfond. The studP-nt body learrn~d a dillicult. 
The game gives Notre Dame students lesson about fan behavior aftor tho a chance to showcase thnir spirit and men's basket.ball win against Connecticut. No matter how impressivo the victory, classless cheering and cel,!­bratiun wi.ll be renrnmberml long altN the victory is forgotten. 
Fans should rernembor that lesson when they enter and loavo Notre Damo Stadium Saturday afternoon. The team's hours of' hard work and pmparation should not bo overshadow1!d by a fow thoughtless and inappropriate actions. 
Notre Dame has bncn known as much for its success on tlrn gridiron as it has !'or its class in the stands. Bditting tlw imagn of the school. tlrn student body should lnavc a lasting impr1ission of integrity and honor. 
--=--=--=--=--=--=--------------=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=-=-==--~ 
Captured by preseason optimism 
Five-straight losses to close a football season at Notre Dame and the off-sea­son assumes an ominous posture. Humors of an imminent r,oaching change. player transfers, less than flat­tering media atten­tion. ("What has 
Scott Blaszak
happened to Notre 
Dame football?" 
read a story in 
The Early 
Spurts Illustrated 
Essays
earlier this year) all 
have driven Bob 
Davie and company 

under wraps. Progress, if it has been 
made, has benn cloaked. Practices 
have been closed to the media and 
with such unceasing talk of Davie's 
precarious job security, you get the 
impression he'd close the first five 
games to tlrn media if he could. 
But Im can't. This is Notre Dame, where the head coaching position is one of the highest profile positions in ·sports. Davie's relationship with the media to now has been rather junior high -awkward and clumsy, dull con­versations filled with uncomfortable pauses. But. and what I think he has now just finally graspr,d, it doesn't mattf~r. Bottom line is vou win and people love you. A BCS berth and for­gotten will be his methodical southern drawl. his boring honesty. his bungling of the Joe Moore firing, his troubles with clock management. Let's face it, college football coaches aren't adored for their polish and charisma. Joe Paterno, Bobby Bowden, Phillip Fulmer. these aren't guys you would gravitate to at a party. Of course, Iloltz spoiled us. I've n1wer seen someone play a crowd better than at his speech two years ago in COBA-and, when he was passionatf), there was never a better game day coach in thn business. 
We've got Bob, though, and a beast of an ciarlv schedule. As for our chancPs, I'm optimistic, perhaps stu­pidly so. The offensively line, save a rash of injuries like last year, should 
be solid. Arnaz will do fine and, conve­niently, he's really, really fast, a trait shared by many of the skilled players. 
Broadly speaking, there is talent on 
this football team that has been lack­
ing for some timn. 
But I do this every year. The presna­son lends itself to promise. New play­ers arc invincible until proven mortal. Heports from practice are both obscur­ing and inconclusive -the team is battling against each other, after all, so how do you know if they're any good or not? Each year the bait is offered; each year I bite. Darrell Campbell will solve our chronically docile defensive line; Brock Williams has two years of improvement to flaunt. Hope. It's addictive, replenish­ing and cyclical. It is, too, I think, American. 
If •..ve do not have a successful sea­son, if my fragile optimism is cruslrnd lyet again) against a brutal September schedule and, if, in consequence, Davin is coaching the Akron Zips next rail, then my four years here at Notre Dame, at least in regard to football, is a waste. Enduring three painfully inconsistent seasons in order to lay the foundation for Notre Dame's return to the upper echelon I can stomach, but if Davie should stumble once again, this time fatally, then his tenure will take on a Faustian connotation. "You were there fur all four Davie years'?" alumni will ask me, with the same pity in their eyes typically reserved for students of the '80-'85 era. 'Tm so sorry." 
Enough gloom. Like I said, I'm opti­mistic and ecstatic that this week Nebraska, the consensus number one in all the land. marches into Notre Dame Stadium. ESPN will be hern. !Lee Corso will most likely predict a 'Husker victory Saturday morning and the Irish crowd will chant "Corso sucks!" l'or the rnmainder of the broadcast. And it's true. Corso does suck.) This is big time collegn l'ootball, whether we dcserw it 
or not. Fortunately tJrn game occurs 
early on the sclwdul11 when the Irish is 
clean-slated, undefeated, tlrn way it 
should br,, a state that hasn't lasted 
even halfway into Snptemlwr in the 
past years. I've wait<>d impatiently 
since that heartbreaking summer clay 
in Ann Arbor last year for our loss col­
umn to return to z1ffo. 
Experts haven't giwn us much of a chancn to hang with Nebraska. I, for one, do not see us folding over. Say what you will about the competencn of the coaches; it's tlrn players who wear the gold helmets. Tim players knep us in this game. We will not be bowlNl over by the 'lluskers, not my Notre Dame. I cannot say if' we win becaus11 a desperatn hope has clouded any objec­tivity I could have mustnrnd. But I can say that come one-thirty on Saturday afternoon. with NotrP Dame Stadium swelling over with a boisterous Notrn Dame nation, as NBC pans the storiPd ground for that mom1mt bnforn Urn kickoff, in the moment b1~forn my insurmountable expectations arn wed 
jarringly to four quarters of a game 
played by 20-year olds, Nnbraska 
won't appear quite as daunting. Big 
games between quality, talented pro­
grams ollfm, nven when orrn is such an 
underdog, take on a fo11ling ol' equality. 
Turnovers. line play, special l!iams. 
these am the deciding factors. And 
then there's the intangible, emotional 
confidence that Notrn Damn will 
always benefit from -rwver mind tlrn 
previous season. And homo field 
advantage is huge. It's our house. It's 
our victory. 
Scott Blaszak is S<'nior Hnglish major. lie is a new columnist and his column will appear again in lhe com­ing weeks. 
The views expressed in I.his colwru1 are those ofthe author and nnl neces­sarily those of The Ohsffuer. 
=============================================================================================:::::================----_-_-_-_ -_ -_-_ -_ -_-_ 
DILBERT 
TODAY I WILL KNOW THE JOY OF UNINTERRUPTED PRODUCTIVITY. 
WE'RE FORMING A POSSE TO FIND OUT WHO LEAVES CRUMBS IN THE SINK. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
WE NEED MORE BLACK SHEEP AROUND HERE. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/don't know anything about luck. I've never banked on it, and /'m afraid ofpeople who do. Luck to me is somet.hing else: hard work and realizing what is opportunity and what isn 'l." 
Lucille Ball comedian 
1----­
VIEWPOINT 
OBSERVER page 19
f<riday, September 8, 2000 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Challenging students to support volleyball 
Calling the students to 
"get the red out" 
It's the start ol' my 10th s1mson as the hm.1d coach for tlrn Irish women's volleyball team and l'v1\ had some absolutdy grnat limns with the team over the years. I've also enjoyed many grnaL tinrns as a spectator and fan for most of the other sports at '\Jotre Dame. I hav<' lwrn impn'SSPd on many occasions with the spirit and enthusiasm generated by tlw student body, particularly as fans for our football, basketball and hock­<')! teams. I ha\(' often wond0rcd how that spirit and enthusiasm might be g1\111•ra1Nl !'or vollByball as wnll as many or the other sports. 
Evnryorw knows there·s a oig football game this weekend, but what many of" you might not know is tht>rn's also a big volleyball tourna­nH'nt. This is llw highnst raliber tournamnnt we've ever hosted, with UCl.i\(No. :1), Nt>braska(No. 41 and Michigan Statn(No. 16) rorning to campus. I think you have rnspondcd well to challenges ov('r tlw years and through this lettrn·, I'm asking you to respond to a challe11g<' I'm sctting bcfon) you. 
In partirular. I'd likP you to conrn support the volleyball ~/J1 warn !'or our match with Nebraska at 4 p.m. Friday. We know jtlwre art! going to b(' a lot or Nebraska fans in tho area for 
tlw 1'1Jotball ganw and WP havc nvery reason to bdi1:vn they ~ -..viii also bP aUPnding tlw voll(J)lball match. 
Wn want lo mak(• surf' W<' hav<' tlw l'ull hornn court advanlag(' by having an aw1isonw dwcring section l'or Notn• Danw. Tlw absolutP last thing wn want is to be play­ing at IH>nw with morn Nnbraska !'ans in thf! stands than !\iotri· J)anw !"ans. Several or you have attended one or mor<' ol" our matdrns in tlw past and I want to thank you l'or tlw support. llowPV<'r, 1think there are far morn of' you who havP 11l'Vl'r att<md('(f a match. I'd like to challenge you to attc•nd and I'm convincnd vou will lo\'n it. 
It's a dynamic, fust-pan•d ~port and there are plenty of opportunities to bP loud and rowdy. We'n) offering free .. Blirnpin" sandwidws to the first 200 studPnts and Student ,\rtivitiPs will be sponsoring a pizza party for the dorm with tlw largest attendance. Then~ will also be an opportunity to SPrVP anti win $20,000 (or tuition for the semester) between tlw snrond and third games of' tlw match. Even better than the promotions that are taking place, however, is the match itself. 
You will haw the opportunity to help us upset Nebraska. The studPnt fans have bnen a major factor in somn of the greatest upsets in tlw history or Notre Dame athletics and this wei,kend is an opportunity f"or it lo happen again ... this time on the volleyball court. l can't think 111' a bntt11r way to start the weekend. At Notre Dame, we're all on tlw sanH' team and.wi, need Pveryone on the team to help us get the job dono. Tlw volleyball match was scheduled so there would be plenty of tirrn~ to rnnw to tlw match and attend the pep rally. 
I'll lw in tlw football stadium on Saturday holping to "get the red out" there and hopP that all who can will be present in the Joyce Center on Friday to "get the red out" tlll'rn. as well. This is just the battle bflfore the war ... but wouldn't it bfl a great battle to win? Thanks in advanrn l'or your support. GO IRISH! 
Debbie Brown head volleyball coach September 7, 2000 

Rally behind both teams this weekend 
Billed as the "Battle before the War," two of Notre Dame's top teams are in action this weekend. The l'iotre Dame women's volleyball team hosts ----nationally-ranked Nebraska today at 4 p.m. in the Joyce Center followed by the Notre Dame women's soccer team in action against Santa Clara at 7:30 p.rn. on Alumni 
Field. In what I would guess is the largest recruiting weekend in Notre Dame recent history, we as a 
student body must rally behind both teams and get the red out of the crowd. We must show all in attendance that Notre Danrn is filled with unbridled enthusiasm and . ~pride for all our teams. Challenge to the student body: · rirst, attend today's match at 4 p.m., ~~\... see two of the nntion 'stop teams bat­01t \~ tle it out, eat the free food provided "'l'C""l,f""'U,\,.~ for the students, get a chance at the ~ ~ · serve for free tuition and then head on over to the pep rally. 
Throw down the Nintendo con­trollers, the Maxims and all other distractions and bring your dorm­mates to the game. Student Activities has offered to give the dorm with the greatest attendance a $300 pizza party in addition to 
the giveaways mentioned ahovP. Now you've got no reason not to show. 
Second, attend tonight's women's soccer game against Santa Clara and witness the Irish in their first game 
tF 
against Santa Clara since last year's NCAA championship semi final victory! The first 175 students receive a free T­ry' shirt so come early and loudly to support
1 

•·Y p~f~ca~:.t~::~~l:::~r::k:t::,::~::dnyrt::~t­
v• 
. #;~/yell, out-shout and simply overwhelm the / Nebraska and Santa Clara fans who have trav­eled to the games. ft is said that bus loads of fans will be traveling to the game from Nebraska and we cannot let a majority of the crowd support the opposing team. Show up wearing green and beat out the red! 
John Micek 

student body liaison to the athletic department senior September 7, 2000 
Continue to encourage debt relief 
Correction: 
The College Republican column that appeared in Viewpoint on Sept 6, 2000 was written by Greg Kelly and Andrew Harms. The Viewpoint staff apologizes for the error. 
The year 2000 is half over, three mil­lion more innocent children have died and the debt continues to mount. .Jubilee 2000's powerful mission to get the G-7 nations to forgive debt to the world's poorest countries has engulfed people from all over in a passionate campaign to save lives. The culmina­tion of this hard work is finally here, as the year 2000 luminously approaches its end. 
Upon reviewing the staggering statis­tics, the unequivocal truth remains to be that seven million children die each year as a result of the debt crisis and at least 50 countries have debts that they can never pay back. More and more money flows into dPbt servicing while social programs continue to decline. Nicaragua spent almost 50 percent ofthe government revenue to debt servicing in 1996. 
The most heavily indebted poor countries, coined HIPC, will never have the chance at a new start. This enor­mous debt, in many cases augmented by corrupt leaders and illegitimate business deals, holds millions of people hostage, but the world hears their cries. 
Jubilee 2000 has recently announced that over 17 million people have signed petitions imploring tho G-7 nations to forgive their debt and advocates expect this to become the largest signed peti­tion in mankind's history. 
Recent victories in the House hint that with the book near completion, the last chapter of this compelling drama might end in victory. Will Congress stand up for humanity, call­ing for the crucial 100 percent debt forgiveness or will power politics pre­vent the needed appropriations from passing, resulting in the death sen­tence of millions of people? As this story unfolds, no one can deny the 17 million cries for justice or the millions of others, crying from their deathbeds for the debt to be forgiven now. 
Ken Seifert 
sophomore, Stanford Hali September ~. 2000 


w E N D 
page 20 Friday, September 8, 2000 

By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Scene W ricer 
Football wnekends at Notre Dame can he nxciting yet frantic times. Them seems to be too many activities but too little time. The good nAws is that informed fans can easily have a fuu-fillod wnekend complete with food, music, and even a football game between two nationally ranked teams. 
Friday 
r\s Friday classes let out, many stu­dents rush hack to their dorms or ofT­cam pus apartments to take part in Forties at Four. This tradition involves consuming one or two 40-ounce bot­tles of malt liquor. Popular brands include Mickr-v·s. Colt 45 and Cobra. Although scat"tered throughout cam­pus, Forties is especially popular in Morrissey and Knott. Many dorms claim they "invented" Forties at Four. but legend has it that tlrn first Forties took place in infamous Flanner Tower. 
Forties at Four is often pushed back to 5::~o p.m. because of classes. This fact made Knott freshman Ben Gilfillian wondHr "if pHople are just trying to cnme up with an excuse to drink a forty before dinner." (le did maintain that 'it's a good enough excuse for me."' 
Sophomore Christian Suarez, a self­descri bed "Forties lover" said that Forties at Four's sole purpose "is just to get drunk and act stupid at the din­ing hall and pep rally." Suarez said he was, on snvcral occasions, "too drunk to even eat." 
The pep rally is the next stop for Irish !'ans and campus visitors. While th11 pep rally is usually held in the Joyce Cooter before games, this week­end's matchup is far from the usual game. The pep rally has been moved to Notre Dame Stadium to accommo­date the thousands of people expected to attend. The stadium gates open at 6 p.m., and the pep rally starts at 6:30 
p.m. Usually, the pep rally features a special guest speaker and a speech by a football player. The speeches have a wide range, from the "spirit of Notre Dame" 
p<ip rally .. is grnat bncauirn the band and speakers get nveryone rnady for the ganw and you can really foe) the enthusiasm of the Irish fans. It's pretty amazing." 
Fans leaving the pep rally should stop outsidu the south gate to see a unique Notre Dame tradition. Behind the gates near the stadium tunnel, the football managers paint the helmets for Saturday's game. In tho shaduw of Touchdown Jesus, thn football man­agers coat the helmets with a fresh layer of paint containing 24-carat gold. "Now we know where the thirty grand a year in tuition goes," laughed student Ann Marie Dillhoff. 
With all the traditions, parties and activities surrounding secondary. But ifyou are one of the people that paid $1, 

ELIZABETH LANG/The Observer From painting the helmets Friday to the leprechaun, Mike Brown, leading the band across campus Saturday, a football weekend is packed with traditions. 
For fans looking for a good time after the game, South Bend's various bars have special events on football game weekends. CJ's Pub will host a tent party from 11 a.m. until mid­night. Many apartment complexes like Turtle Creek and Lafayette host enor­mous keg parties later in the evening. Because Nebraska is without question the biggest game on the Irish sched­ule, there will be no shortage of par­
ties on Friday 
night. 

spfiech to the "we're "After walking through going to kick their a-" that field, I couldn't Saturday morning 
For many Irish
tiradt• made famous by 
believe there was any fans -especially
former dnfcnsivc line­
man Bob Golie. alcohol left in South students The pup rally also Bend.. " Saturday mornings 
mean tailgating.
features porf'ormanccs Loud music, cheap
by the band and pom 
Brian Ford beer and all the
squad. Alumnus Kevin Dewan said that Lhe self-proclaimed tailgating expert bratwurst anyone 
can handle are the staples of a Notre Dame tailgate. Tailgating participants range from a first-time freshman shotgunning Natty Light to the great boxer Muhammad 
Ali. 

"l look forward to tailgating almost more than the game," said sophomore Kevin Heffernan. "Last year I didn't even make it to the Michigan State game." 
To the seasoned tailgate addict, the RV section is the 'Promised Land'. These hard-core fans drive their Winnebagoes from all over America, rumbling into the parking Jot on Friday morning to secure the choicest 
parking spots. They always have the best food and the best beer. More importantly, the HV crowd is very generous to poor Notre Dame students who could never afford such high quality food and drink. 
For students and fans tailgating without permits, the soccer fields across Edison are popular. Tailgaters gather beneath the enormous radio tower in the middle of the field and party all morning, testing their stom­achs with multiple burgers and multi­ple beers. 
"After walking through that field, 1 couldn't believe there was any alcohol left in South Bend," observed self-pro­claimed tailgating expert Brian Ford. 
Although everyone has their own per­
sonal idea of what 
"In the fall at Notre don't want to fight
makes an ideal tail­
Dame, there's only one the Crape !-load 
gater. most Irish 
crowd, tailgating

fans would agree thing that matters ­
after the game is a

that the keys to suc­
tailgating. Oh, and popular option. These 
cess are lots of food, 
football's pretty die-hards simply fire 
. lots of friends and 
up their grills again

lots of beer. Hardly cool too.. " 
and re-open the beer

just an excuse to 
coolers.

drink before noon, 
Matt Wilkerson They have the
sophomore Adam 
advantage of avoiding

Notre Dame student
Harrison described 
tailgating as "a cul­tural experience." 
Tailgating is not the only event on­campus on Saturday morning. The Notre Dame Glee Club performs at 
11:30 a.m. in the Joyce Center. The marching band snakes its way through campus during the morning and final­ly ends with a concert on the steps of Bond Hall an hour prior to game. 
The informed fan should follow the band for a while, if only to see the Irish Guard abuse an unwitting Nebraska fan that makes the mistake of blocking the band's path. 
After the Game 
After the game, the only thing on a fan's mind is food. In this key deci­sion, there are many options. Grape H.oad features every chain restaurant known to man, from Chili's to Friday's to Outback Steakhouse. However, no restaurant in the area around Notre Dame will accept reservations anytime on football weekends, and 1 1/2-hour waits are common for more popular establishments. Also, fans should 
expect slow service. 
For people that 
the mad rush leaving the stadium parking Jot after the game. 

The dining halls offer a 'candlelight buffet' after the game. It is free for students as part of their meal plan, and everyone else can eat for $11.95. The buf'fot does showcase the best food the dining hall will offer all year, 
Notre Dame home game, the football game seems almost 00 for a pair ofend zone tickets on ebay, heres how to... 
~ur football weekend 

w E 
K E N D 
~HE 

Friday, September 8, 2000 voSERVER page 21 ­
but reviews are mixed. "It's still the dining hall," sophomore Becky Luckett said. 
For the religious football fan, Siegfried Hall hosts a Mass 30 minutes after the game. Signs advertising the service guarantee that it has "a short homily, air conditioning and friendly people." 
Hall resident Tim Comte agrees. "It's only like 30 minutes," he said. "They just get you out of there quick." 
Sunday 
Football Sundays are the relax­ing part of the weekend. Students generally study, taking a breather after a wild few days. A trip to the bookstore is a good idea for par­ents or visitors wishing to pick up anything Domer related. 
"Who wouldn "t want a Notre Dame dog collar or official Fighting Irish macaroni!" said Laurie Hohberger, a regular visi­tor to the bookstore. 
As the fans return home and the students return to the rigors of academia. the campus again becomes quiet. 
But that next football game weekend -and another chance to tailgate -is just around the r.oruer when Purdue visits on Sept. 16. 
"In the fall at Notre Dame, there's only thing that matters ­tailgating," said Matt Wilkerson. "Oh, and football's pretty cool too." 
Game time traditions Notre Dame traditions extend beyond pre-game and post-game parties. While you're in the stadium, watch lor these traditions. 
. 
The Shirt: For $15 you can purchase the official shirt for the 2000 football season. Proceeds from the sales go to charity and student activities. Even ii you don't buy this year's green shirt, many alumni will still be wearing green to counteract the red presence of Nebraska fans. 

. 
Alma Mater: All fans should stick around alter the game until the band plays the "Alma Mater." Even ii you don't know the words, just sway back and forth, mumble alittle bit and then shout "Love thee Notre Dame!" when everybody else does. 

. 
ESPN: College GameDay with Lee Corso, Chris Fowler and Kirk Herbstreit will broadcast its show from in front of Touchdown Jesus. Corso will most likely Nebraska lo win the game. In all previous GameDay visits lo South Bend, Corso has picked against the Irish and been wrong every lime. 



Don't have a ticket? 
Even if you are one of tho located in the center of cam­thousands of people stuck pus just south of the Golden outside the gates without a Dome, has a lounge where ticket when the game starts, you can see the game. While you can still see the game. Burger King and The Huddle Several spots on campus vvill Mart can fill your snacking be showing the game on big needs, there is no alcohol screen televisions. The allowed in LaFortune. Lafortune Student Center, For a more mature atmos­phere head over to the lounge in the Morris Inn. The Morris Inn is next to the main circle. Prepare for a crowd, howev­er. the Morris Inn is a popular destination for the ticketless. 
As a last resort you could try to watch the game in one of the dorm lounges. 

From bratwurst and burgers to fruit and cheese, no tailgate is complete without plenty of food. The parking lots around campus turn into the state's largest pot-luck suppers before every game as just about everybody shares their food with other fans. 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 8, 2000 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Ordonez, Lee slug surging White Sox past Rangers 
Associaccd Press 
Br ing o II t lw C l!w eIan d Indians, tlw Chicago Whiff' Sox am r,~ady. 

Magglio Orclonnz honwred twice, Carlos Ll'P hit a solo shot and Frank Thomas drove in thrc•p runs Thursday night as the Whit<' Sox ralliNI for a I0-6 victory ovnr the Texas Hangt>rs. 
Tlw vktrn·y, couplPd with an Indians' loss, increased Chic:ago's lead in tlw /\L Central Lo 71/2 ganws as the \\ihitP Sox head Lo Clevnland for a thrcn­game s1•ries this Wl'Pkl'nd. 
"To go in with that lypP of h\ad, that's big," manager .krry Manti('! said. ''That's what we·vo work1•cl for all vnar, to make this sPriPs nol as·lrnge as they'n• probably making it out 
to be." 
Lorenzo Bai-cPlo Ci-I) gavn up orw run and two hits in 2 1/3 innings for llH' WhitP Sox. K1~ith Foulkn got the last tiv(• outs !'or his 28th savti in 33 chancns. 
Jeff ZimmPrman (3-5) only gave up onP nm in tw(I innings, hut it was !lrdorwz's two-run homt\r in tht' sixth. Ordonez added an insurance run in tlw eighth off of Darwin Cubillan. 
Ono night arwr bPcoming only the third playPr in major IPague history to play all nine spots in a ganrn, S1'.ott Slwldon stayPd put for Tt>xas. IIP made his l 0th start of' tlw war at third base. 
"It's hig,"· Orclmwz said of' the conw-f'rom-lH'hind victory. "We havf' a 7 1/2-ganw !1rnd. Th1iy have Llw pressurP. \VP 'rp play­ing right now without prPs­sun~. 
Red Sox 11, Twins 6 
Hamon Martirwz wasn't ('.On­cernPd when he spott11cl the \1innPsota Twins five runs in the first inning. 
Aftnr all. lw"d heen in that 
CLASSIFIEDS 
position before. 
Martinez retired 16 of 17 bat­
ters after allowing back-to-back 
homers in tho first inning ­
including the first earner grand 
slam by David Ortiz -and Josf' 
Offerman homered lwicc to 
rally the Boston Hed Sox to an 
Il-6 victory over Minnesota on 
Thursday. 
"lie benl. but he didn't break." Boston manager .limy Williams said of his starter. "It's a nine-inning game. And we hadn't oven b11m1 up yet." 
Offerman. who also hmnPrnd on Wednesday night. had thrne hit-; and scored rour times in the second multihomer game of" his earner. 
Dante Bichette also homPred for the second consecutive ganw and Lou Mcr!oni had thrn<' hits for the Red Sox. who play their next seven games against the /\L East-leading Yank11os and thn wild card-lead­ing Indians. 
"We have to play some very big-games this weekend," :Vlarti11ez said. "The next seven games ar<' going Lo be very intPresting." 
Orf iz hit his first earner grnnd slam. lhtrn Corey Koskie fol­lowPd with a homer off Martinez to give the Twins a fast !i-0 !Pad. But 1\fartinez {9-6) sctlled down after that -a pat­tPrn he has followed all season. 
Twenty-nine of' tho 74 runs he has allowPd this season have brn•n in tlw first. giving him an ERA or 11. 35 in the first inning and 4.62 in the rest. Overall, he gavp up six runs in 5 2-3 innings on 11ight hits on Thursday whilP matching a sea­son high with SPVf'll strikPnuts. 
Devil Rays 4, Indians 3 
[f the Clcwland Indians don't make the postseason !'or the sixth straight year, this is one loss that's going to haunt them 

all winter. four home runs over thnre oight scoreless innings and 
Rookie Jason Tynor's RBI sin­tonight." Seattle beal tho Toronto Blue gle rnpped Tampa Bay's two­Belcher. who pitched for .Jays 8-1 Thursday night. only out, four-run rally in the sev­DPtroit in 1994 and !Pd the /\L the Mariners' seventh 'vvin in 24 enth inning as the Devil Rays with 15 losses, gave up three gamHs. snapped a six-game losing runs and sevr.n hits. "Wn wc'rn going to take him streak with u victorv over the Troy Glaus, Scott Spiezio and out allnr oighl. rogardloss of' tho Cleveland Indians. • Tim Salmon homnrcd and scorn," said PiniPlla. who 
"It's protty tough," Indians 13engie Molina went 4-for-4 to brought in Jose Paniagua to manager Charlie Manuel said. lead the t\ngnls. pitch the ninth. "I In camp close "We nePded one out to get out ''I didn't do a thing in this to 120 pitchns." of that inning and we couldn"t series. bui wn still won iwo Garria, who thrPw 117 pitch­get it. We. can't afford to lose games because we have a lot of ns. wantnd to finish. but that gmnPs like that." heroes on this team," Mo didn't matt1\r. 
Tyrrnr delivered Tampa Bay's Vaughn said. "It's nice to go ''Ile askNI mp and I said fourth straight two-out HHI sin­hack home after .a couplr. of' 'Yeah,' but lw took me out." gin in the seventh, and third in wins like lhis." c;arcia said. "I g1wss lw wanted a row off reliever Stevo Karsay The Angels concluded thnir me ready l'or my noxt start. .. (4-R). seven-game road trip with two Garcia ((J-4) struck out six and 
Karsay, who has given up 16 wins, after losing their prnvious worked around six walks. hits in his last liw innings and six games. Tlw Tigers lost back­"lie n>ally had it working," 21 in his last l0, dressed in the to-back games for the first time l'iniPlla said. shower and left before talking since Aug. 6-7. Garcia. 2:1, didn't allow a hit with reporters. Anaheim is six games br1hind until Darrin Fletdwr Ind off tlrn 
The Devil Hays had 15 hits -SeatUe in tlrn AL West and 61/2 l'ifth with a single After .losn 14 singles and a double. Tyner games behind Clovcland in the Cruz grounded into a doublP wcmt 3-for-5 for the AL's worst­wild card rac<'. The Tig0rs am play, Mirkny 'Vlorandini singled hitting tnam. six gamtis bPhind the Indians. !'or Toronto's onlv otlrnr hit. 
"My first three-hit game," Bel,:-her (3-2) won the "lie had a· l'rnsh arm. Tyner said. "I was thinking matchup of pitchers coming off Toronto shorbtop ,\lex about that. Before the game the disablecl list. lie lrn,wf'ited c;onzalez said. "lln had good Lenn (Hoborts), our hitting from the size or Conrnrica -movement on his fastball." coach. told me to get thrne hits. Bobby Higginson hit a double Tony Batista <'IHIPd tlw rom­I was worried about gettlng off the wall in right-<'nnler that hin1\d shutout birl with his :rnth one." traveled about 385 l°fiel and horner and gave the BluP .lays a 
Cleveland appcarP-d en route Tony Clark hit a 3%-foot nyout f'ranchisn-rncorcl 222 horn<' to its firth straight win as startnr in the l'ourth. runs. Toronto. which l1iads tlw Bartolo Colon took a shutout "I felt pretty good and wlwn I majors in honwrs. had not rnn­into the seventh. But aftPr Colon didn't f'enl so good, it felt good nectPd in its prnvious six ganws. gave up a run. he waved for to be in Comerica Park," said Steve Trachsnl (7-131 saw his Manuel lo come out to thn Btdcher, who underwnnl rncord against ScattlP this sea­mound. surgery in December. "I got son drop to 0-4. 
away with a coup!P mislakPs, Trachsnl exp1·cts Toronto's but when you've got a nice olfonsivP slump to 1irHI soon.
Angels 6, Tigers 4 

pitcher's yard like this. the main "Someorrn is going to pay," lw
Tim Belcher hated Tiger 

objective is just to throw strikcs said. · Stadium. but he loves Comerica 
and to have some damage con­Trarhsnl. ac:quirnd l'rom
Park. 

trol." Tampa Bay on .July :{I, allowPdBelcher, in his first start since f'our runs and ninP hits in stw<'llJuly 2, p~tched six innings and innings.
helped the Anaheim Angels beat Mariners 8, Blue Jays 1 
"llt1 pitched good. but we• gotthe Detroit Tigers. Seattle manager Lou Piniella to him," saic.l second basmnan

"It's 180 degrees different," didn't give Mariners right-han­
Mark McLmnorn, who drovl' in

said Belcher, referring to der Freddv Garcia a chance at 
thren runs for tlrn AL w,•st IPad­

Detroit's old and new stadiums. his first shutout of the snason. 
r.rs.

"I probably would've givon up Garcia allowed two singles in 
The Ohserver accepts classifieds every husincss d ••y from 8 a.m. to 3 \,.m. at th,· Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classitieds for content without issuing refunds. 
TICKETS 
2 Neb Tix for sale call 634-4B87 
1 O Tickets for sale-NEB To be sold by the pair 243·9387 make offer 
NEED 2 OR 3 PURDUE TICKETS. ANY WORKS. 634·1886 
sale• Nebraska 4·2760 
BUSINESS MAN NEEDS Nebraska tickets or season G.A. only. 277-1659 
FOR SALE· STANFORD. AIR FORCE, BOSTON. Cheap 654-0168 
WANTED NO FOOTBALL TKTS 289-9280 
SELLING NO FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570 
VICTORY TKTS BUY'SELL'TRADE ND FOOTBALL 232-0964 
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911 
ALWAYS BUYING NEBRASKA 271-9330 
TICKET MART BUY/SELUTRADE ALL GAMES 271-9330 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED 
A.M. : 232-2378 P.M. · 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE 
A.M. : 232-2378 P.M.: 288-2726 
NEED 3-5 GA TICKETS FOR NEBRASKA FOOTBALL GAME PLEASE CALL 1·630-904-6418 
BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL T!X. HOME & AWAY. (219) 289-8048 NO STUDENT CONVERSION TIX NEEDED 
ATTENTION! PAYING $162.50 CASH FOR NEBRASKA TICKETS. SORRY. NO STUDENT CONVER­SIONS NEEDED. 219·289-8048 
'"Need 3 Purdue Tix..1! 243-7865 
Need 4 Purdue Tickets Call Travis 319-241-1062 
2 Nebraska tix for sale Call 634-4B87 
Need 1 cheap Purdue Ticket. Call John 4·3670 
Need 4 Nebraska tix 634-1430 
Need GA's: 4 Stanford. 2AF, 2BC Chns 634-4751 Beeley.1 @nd.edu 

For Sale: Two Nebraska Tickets ( seats are together) $400 for the pair Call Matt @ 634-3588 
I need two Nebraska Tickets URGENT Please call to negotiate 219-679-4333 Ask for Don. 
Two Nebraska tickets for sale. Call 634-4887 
FOR RENT 
SOUTH BEND LODGING 
B&B lodging in alumni home for ND games. (219) 243-2628 or garyb@ mvillage .com 
2 BDRM APTS. FOR 2000-01. ALSO LEASING FOR 2001·02 DAVE 291-2209 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE ANO CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmrnrentals@aol.com 232-2595 
2BR. 2nd fir. Apt 525/mo. Along St Joe River. Include. Water/Sec. Sysl.lTrash 288·2654 or 288-2788 
FOR SALE 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418·9467. 
I have 5 bedrooms for rent in my nicely-decorated private home for Football weekends; less than 2 miles north of stadium, continental brkfst included. Many happy repeat customers' Call Kim 277·8340. 
B&B rm avail. Lg rm, dbl. bed w/ own bath, mins. to ND 631-9806 or 277-7696 
WANTED 

SPRlNGBREAK 2001 Hiring On-Campus Reps SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, GO FREE!!! Student Travel Services America6s #1 Student Tour Operator Jamaica. Mexico. Bahamas. Europe, Florida 
1-800-648·4849 www.gospringbreak.com 
WINTER BREAK/SPRING BREAK Ski & Beach trips on sale now! www.sunchase.com or call 1-800· SUNCHASE TODAY! 
SOCCER & VOLLEYBALL REFER­EES needed for south side elemen• tary school, located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. $20.00 per soccer game; $16.00 per VB match to qualified refs Call 291-4200 
FOOSBALL Looking tor high level players. Call 257•4441 in evening. Ask for D. 
Looking for a babysitter in our home. Flex. hours. No Sundays. Please call 258•411 S 
Need babysitter in our home for 7­month-old. Granger. Must have car & references. 243-5618 Looking for 10 enterprising students for part time computer work. Earn up to $4,000/mo. 1-800-304-0414 Lv. Msg. 
Fashion company seeks models to show glamour fashions. No experi­ence necessary. Glamour, P.O. Box 
795. South Bend, IN 46624 
High quality kegerator. Bought in '98 for 1k. Asking $600 (can be split amongst roommates & later resold to underclassmen) 312·952-2540 leave v-mail. ••• 
ND grad/physlcian would like to hire 1 or more students for Website design/internet research. office/cler­ical work including photocopying/fil­ing. Call 277-1275 arter 8 pm 
Job direct wants to HIRE YOU! #1 rated student resume matching ser­vice is seeking enthusias\Jc reps. Do you like people? Can you use EXTRA CASH? 
More info: nrodgers@nd.edu 
NOTICES 

SKYDIVE!! Training Students for 35 Years 1 Hour North of South Bend GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS, INC. 1-800-351-6617 
PERSONAL 

For Sale 1 mile from ND in quiet neighbor­hood. 2 Bedroom very clean $69,500. Call (219) 264-4966 
Missed you, Mark Hopefully your car won't break down agam-or mine1 LOST IN EITHER LAFORTUNE OR NOH: wallet with credit cards and identification. If found, call Lori x3874 -REWARD IF FOUND 
Britney's not wearing any clothes. 
Cheer up, Cassie. We all love you! ... your old "R5" crew 
jnell-have fun at the wedding. Your dress looks great! 
Work .. fun stuff... it feels good to 
see the fruits of labor. 
Its 5 a.m., I make no money, and 
I'm sitting here swearing at a Mac. 
Beats thinking about other stuff ... 
11 days until 21 .. WHOOPEE DOO 
Mike C is da man.. da COOOLEST dude on earth 
No Dylan episodes on this week ... 
my love Ille is lacking. 
Ann.. I'm not ditching you .. I swear! 
Regan, whal kind of name is that 
anyways 
-
Hero worship is highly over-rated. 
Some people idolize athletes. oth­ers put politicians on a pedestal 
I prefer to look at those who have affected me profoundly in many ways. 
Friends who make you a better per­son just by being in lhe room with them 
Have a good weekend Kel. Thanks. 



------. 
Friday, September 8, 2000 
The Oburver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
THE FOLLOWING EVENTS .-.-------HAPPENIN 
THE HAMMES NOTRE Di™E BOOKSTllt 
Author Events: 
Jack Connor will sign copies of Leahy's Lads: The Story ofthe Famous Notre Dame Football Teams Ofthe 1340s on.Friday, Sep. 8 from 2:00 
p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
Also on Friday, Sep. 8 from 4:oo pdn. to 6:00 p.m., University of Notre Dame President Father Malloy will be signing copies of his , 
book, Monk's Reflections. 
A tasting of sweets prepared by members of Junior League of South' Bend from their cookbooks Nutbread & Nostalgia and Great Beginnings, Grand Finales will be on Saturday, Sep. 9 from 10:,QOxa...m_.,_, -·• 
... ,,,. '·• 

to 1:00 p.m. 
South Bend native Olivia Wu will sign copies of Turning 50: Fifty Personal Celebrations on Saturday, Sep. 9 from 10:30 am to 1.li1'0 i>< 
p.m. The author is a columnist and reporter at the Chicago Sun-Times. 
On Saturday, Sep. 9 the Wild Thing storybook character willa_ppe.1.r periodically during the day -cameras are welcome. 
Also appearing on Saturday, Sep. 9 from 11:00 a.m. to 12:3f)~m. Coach Gerry Faust, to sign copies of The Golden Dream. 
Angela Bo'urke-isSen~~r Lecturer in Irish at University Dublin; at1dis an expert on the Irish oral tradition. Her Burning ofBridget Cleary, is a riveting account of a horrific l 9'h century-;Ireland, and it is also a scholarly analysis of politics, religion, and mythology. The most recent edition of Publishers Weekly fea,tured al! ;µ-'ij~e about this book. She will be signing copies of her hoPkii~~duf:~i' :, p. 13 at 7:00 p.m. 
::'.:'.::1::t:;:,;;::::::::;::]:1 :::;:s:
;:[;'.:'.;i:fi~~~l!!ii~l~iil~~!~l}?\t\l~ii1~\!~~i!~~f\?:J:;:i 
Wdli;~ Criiigltl;µii~l writer, speaker, and consultant. His book, Legacy Os}ilBtr{~!?;ft.g \. es his readers to reflect positively on richness~; ... ,·<ui .. /· d lqved ones. There will be a Kc1~q1:~ru; 
signing:tt~~~®-j/jep. !4 at 7:00 p.m. 

_~~;Fri 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. and Sun p.m., Pianist Emmeline Schoen;_ 
:"(at 8:00 a.m., Bagpiper Joe Smith, .........A~l••·-­
nter) 

-:=:::·;::::::l:::;;:::•::::;::::'.::::?::;::~::;i-~\
Acapella grthip; The Undertones, performs on.e>;;;; hour after the game on Saturday, Sep. 9. 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS f-riday, September 8, 2000 NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Cardinals' Kile shuts down Expo bats for 17th victory 
Tuesday. "You can't change made his first start sinr.o July just to go up and havr. a quality run in his homn park. brnaking
Associated Press 
what happened toda.y. good or 14. He lasted 4 1-3 innings. at-bnt. l told myself just to b0 his Astros rncord of 2:{ homc•­bad. and you've got to get ready allowing four runs on live hits. patient and wait until hn put a park homers sd in 1 '>94. l It) isST. LOUIS l'or the next onn." and lost his third straight deci­fastball in a good place. It was a two home runs short of' match•
It took MontrPal Expos man­Kile struck out Wilton sion. good foeling. cspncially to help ing his team rncord of 4:~ Sf\l in
agPr Ftdipe :\lou exactly onr 
c;uerrcro all three times he The Expos had to change Sr.otl get the win. II<' desP.rvnd 19')7.
hiw•r lo n•alizc his t1·,tn1 was in !'aced him and finished his stint their li1wup just before game­it. .. Florida took a 2-0 lead in thl'trouble. 
with a flourish. dropping to time after second baseman Josn Florida interim manager fourth. Alc)x Gonzaloz lr1d off'
Darryl Kiln serwd up a stl'ady 
sidearm to f'an Peter Bergeron Vidro was scratched with a Frndi Gonzalez made the deci­with a homo run. and th<'dicit of r.urvcballs, his big pitt'l1, to end the seventh. Kile's only sprained left elbow. Vidro. sec­sion to walk Meluskev. Marlins loaded tlw bases wlH\llin tlw St. Louis C:u-dinals' 6-1 lroublc came in the fourth ond in the NL with 177 hits, will "I thought we ha·d a better llnnry Hodrigucz walkPd and
victorv Thursdav. For thP third 
when he left lhe basP-s loaded. havp an MHI on Friday. r,hanr.e with Truby than wi.lh Preston Wilson and Mikn l.ownll
straight ganw iw was in total Jim Edmonds hit a two-run Alou juggled three slots as a Meluskcy," Gonzalez said. singled. Mark Smith hit an BBicommand. allowing five hits 
home run off Tony Armas 14-8) result of Vidro's injury. and had "(Dan) Miceli made a good single.
and striking out IO in seven 
in the first and a sacrifice t1y to to make a fourth change when pitch. lie got it in. but Truby l louston ma1rng1•d to load LIH'innings. 
the right-field wall in the fifth. Milton Bradlev strained his left was strong enough to gr,t it over bas11s in thn fourth with two
"Hight away I knew were in 
Edmonds. who has 39 hom~irs oblique muscle on a pop-up to the infield and that opnned up outs, but Byan Dcmpstnr rptin~d
for a tough day with our young 
and 95 HBls, also f1ied out to lead off' the gamo. inserting the 11 ood gates." Truby on a [ly ball. 
guys swinging at his stuff." Ainu 
the ccntPr finld wall in the Bergeron. Gnnzal0z is filling whil!1 man­
said. 
fourth. ager John Boles is in (hicago
Kill\ I 17-IJl allowed one walk. Braves 4, Diamondbaks 0 
"I almost get three every with his ailing fatllf'r.
hi!; first in ttw last three starts. Greg Maddux pitc:hPd a f'our­
day," Edmonds said. "Wrong Astros 7, Marlins 3 Elarton (16-!i) won for the
and ti1)d Arizona's Handy hitter and lrnlpnd out at tlw 
time of thR year. Wind's blow­Chris Truby appreciated his 12th time in l 4 decisions since
Johnson for sncond in victoriPs platn with a two-run doub/(' /!S
sficond opportunity to come
ing in." .June 22. Ile pitched eight
in thl' NL. Atlanta's Tom thn Atlanta Bravns compl1'tPd a
through in the dutch.

Will Clark also homered in the innings, giving up thrne runs
Glavine has 1<J. thrce-gamn swnnp of' tlH'
Truby singled home the go­
fourth and Miko Matheny had and seven hits.
"It's so much f'un to watch Arizona Diamondbacks with a 
an BBi single in the sixth for the ahead run in the eighth inning, With the score '.i-al!. Lance
him pitch," manager Tony La 4-0 victory.
leading Scott Elarton and the
Cardinals, who have won seven Berkman drew a lnadofT walk
Huss a said. "! IP is 1·oncentrating Maddux ( 1 (i-8) was pPrfort
Ilouston Astros ovr.r the Florida
of 0,ight. Kile singled for his from MiceIi (6-4l in the Astros
lfon·.P.ly and competing fif1rcl'ly. through 4 2-:1 innings. IIP 
eighth hit of' the year and Marlins. eighth and pinr.h-runner Glen
and he's got good stuff. You struck out six and didn't walk 
scornd on Mathenv's hit. Truby's hit came after the Barker stoic second. i\ft11r
watch the sanw guy go up tlwre anyon!1 in pitching his 11fth rom­
Marlins intentionallv walked
The NL CP.nirai leaders took MeluskP-y was walked, Truby
thrl'n at-baL-; and lw goes after plPtP game and semnd shutout 
three or four from the Expos for Mitch MRluskey. In the fourth singled.
thrm dif'1'1\rent wavs." or the vmtr. 
thr-1ir t\ighth straight series vie• inning. after an intentional walk Pinch-hitter Darvin Ward hit
KilP, who was· 8-13 with a Mad.dux gavn up five firsl­
tory. to Meluskey, Truby popped up an HBI single anct" pinch-hitter
(J.bl EH:\ in Colorado lasl vnar, inning runs in nach of' his last
"You look at what they had with the bases loaded. Moises Alou had a two-run dou­
has four starts rPmaining and two starts. This time. he n1'1'dc>d
"I was glad to gP-t another
last yrntr. what they have play­ble.
has a shot at 20. But Kilt', who only sC'VPn pitc:hns to gl'!
ing now and what they have chance. You don't get too many DP.rrPk Lee led off the Marlins 
won 19 ganws for tlw Astros in through tlw lirsl.
chances lik!1 that and I was kind

available on that bench -s0,vnnth with his 24th home\
I<)<J7, said Jw's not thinking ThP Bravt>s, whose' sWPPp
of upset at mysolr af'tnr the lirst
that's a deep opnration." Ainu run. tying it at 3.
about lhat. came al'tPr a strr'tch in which 
said. "No wonder thPv are t.inw berausn I swung at somA J0,{T Bagw,,11 and Julio Lugo
"You know, right noYv thP they lost Pighl ol' I I ganws.
bad pitrlws," Truby said.

wlwrn thr,y arc\ in the stand­homcrnd in thP f'if'th to put
only thing 1'111 thinking aboui is Curt Schilling I10-1 I) lost his
Trubv wasn't insulted bv the

ings. llouston ahcad 3-2. Lugo hit a
whal J'v" got to do to pitch fourth st raighl start. 111' was :{­
i\rmas. who was on the dis­intnnti1~nal walks to Mclusknv. leadofT honrn run and llagwPII
against tlw Pirates." KilP said, 0 with two shutouts in his l'our
"Ynu try not to take t·hat
ahlPd list 51 davs with a hit his 4ls!. a two-run sh11t.
rPfPrring to his nt>xt start on starts.
anglt>." Truby said. "You try

strai1w<l right rntalur cuff. It was Bagwr\ll's 24th home 
• 
... 
0 

u, Domino's Delivery 
~<t 
~N 0~ 

CCL ® 211--0300 
... 

Store Hours: 
Sunday -Thursday 11 am -2 am 
Friday & Saturday 11 am -3 am 



-

adidas Invitational 
page 25 Friday, September 8, 2000 
VOLLEYBALL 
First Cornhusker invasion challenges Irish setters 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sports Writer 
In what is being rel'e1·recl to as "The Battle before the War," Notre Dame vollevball will face l\ebraska today hoping for an upsPt to kick off weekend play. 
The No. 22 Irish will host the adidas Invitational in whicll they \\ill facr. No. 3 UCLA. No. 4 Nebraska and No. 16 Michigan State. 
Notre Darm~ is currently 3-0 f'ol­lowing lust weckr.nd's Shamrock Invitational held at the Joyce Centllf. The Irish topped Fairfield in a three-game victory (15-7. 15­7, 15-10 )-. Senior co-captain Christi Girton led the team with 14 kills anrl eight digs. 
Down by two games, the Irish came back strong l.o defeat No. 15 RYU 15-15, 10-15. 15-10, 15­
10. 15-10). Junior Kristy Kreh er had an outstanding match lead­ing thP Irish with 23 kills and 17 digs. 
"It was great for us to go up against a team ·like that and see what we could do," said head coach Debbie Bro·wn following last weekend's games. "That win gave us confidence, especially sine<! we have a lot of ranked teams on our schedule. I think that win is going to be really important as .we go into the matches against other top teams." 
"\Ve're really excited just bPcause being down in the first two games and being able to comPback and actually we were also down in the fifth and beating a ranked team has been a tough thing for us to do in the past cou­ple years. 
"We're over the hype of not being able to beat a ranked team 
and we're excited for this week­end." senior en-captain DenisP Bovian said. 
Notre Dame ended the weekend with at three-game sweep of Clemson (15-7, 15-8. 15-6). Boylan led the Irish with 49 assists and seven digs. 
Nebraska and Notre Dame will play for the seventh time in histo­ry. The Cornhuskers hold the upperhand with a 4-2 record against the Irish, including a win at their last meeting in '95 where they swept the Irish 3-0. Nebraska is currently 4-0 follow­ing the US Bank Tournament in which they topped No. 13 Colorado State for the title. 
On Saturday, the Irish will face No. 3 UCLA for the first time in history. The Bruins are currrntly 3-2 following two early season losses as well as a win over No. 2 Penn State. After being named No. 1 in preseason polls, the Bruins have fallen to the No. 3 position following losses to No. 13 Colorado State and No. 5 Hawaii. 
Notre Dame wraps up the weekend tournament on Sunday as it faces Michigan State. The Spartans have faced the Irish eight times before with a 3-0 sweep at their last meeting in '98. Michigan State is now 3-0 after a sweep of the L&L/MSU Volleyball Classic where it defeat­ed Rutgers. Northeastern and Eastern Washington. 
In its 20th varsity season, the Irish hope to use their home court advantage this weekend. Since 1991 Notre Dame has earned a .874 average in the Joyce Center, winning 111 of its 127 matches. 
"I think that if we stay aggres­sive we'll be able to compete," Boylan said. 


Juniors Kristy Kreher (left) and Malinda Goralski defend against Fairfield on Sept. 1. The Irish take on the Cornhuskers today at 4 p.m. 
Veteran Boylan leads by example 
Women•s Volleyball Schedule '  
Michigan State vs. UCLA Today 1:30  
Notre Dame vs. Nebraska Today 4:00  
Michigan State vs. Nebraska Saturday 4:30  
Notre Dame vs. UCLA Saturday 7:00  
UCLA vs. Nebraska Sunday· 12:30  
:. Notre Dame vs. Michigan State Sunday 3:00  


By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sports Writer 
Irish senior co-captain Denise Roylan hopes to lead the Irish to a big upset this weekend as they !'ace four nationally ranked teams in the aclidas Invitational. 
'Tm rnallv cxr.ited about this wneknnd. \Ve played really well last wnnkend and I feel that we 'vc worked on a lot ol' stuff in practice this Wf'Pk that's going to help us prnparn l'or the teams that we're going to play nnxt." Boylan said. 
Bovian !Pd Notre Dame last weeknnd while earning tourna­ment MVP honors as it took the Shamrock Invitational title in a swePp over Fairfield, No. 15 BYU and Clemson. She was also nanwd thP Big Fast player of the week for lwr outstanding showing in tht> tournamrinl whern shP totaled an impressive 136 assists, 27 digs, 10 blocks, 10 kills and five aces. Boylan racked up 37 assists in the Fairfield game last weekend to aid the .331 team hit­ting percentage and then went on to grab 50 assists. 10 digs and three blocks against BYU where the Irish had a .421 hitting per­ceritage. 
rollowing the 1999 season when she was named to the all­conference first team. Boylan was wPnt on to be namPd the Dig East preseason playf'r of tlrn year for the 2000 season. She totals 3,291 assists and an 11.84 assist aver­age for her career high, both being second in the Notre Dame record books with 1,132 of those assists in the 1999 season. 
"We just need to go om and play aggressively. l think we've prepared well enough," said Boylan. 
I 
l
. 
1 

. Notre Dame: The Irish are cur• East player of the week after an out­in the US Bank Tournament where rently ranked No. 22 following a 3-0 standing show last weekend where they defeated No. 13 Colorado as
fast facts about the 
sweep of the Shamrock Invitational she racked up 136 assists, 27 digs, well as pummeling Oral Roberts in which they defeated No. 15 BYU. 10 blocks. 10 kills and live aces. 15-0, 15·1, 15-0 to set a school 
. Player to look for: Senior co-cap­. Nebraska: The No. 4 Cornhuskers record for least points given up in a
adidas Invitational 
tain Denise Boylan was named Big are now 4-0 after coming out on lop match. 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, Seprember 8, 2000 
NFL 
Exclusively available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Meet Tim or Ryan O'Neill in the bookstore this weekend! Friday 5-7 pm Sunday 1-2 pm 
www.pianobrothers.com 
Staley starts, stars silently 
Associated rress 
PI I 11.ADELPIIIA 
The hardest hit Ducn Staley took in tlw stiason opener against Dallas w,Ls when leam­malfl Donovan McNabb chest­bumpnd him during u touch­down celebration. Staley was­n't about to go through it again 
thret~ days latt'r.  
Staley ruslwd for a r.areer­ 
high  20 I  yards  .as  the  
Philadnlphia  
l'agles  lwat  the  

Cowboys 41-1.4 ''I've always thought the ed for 40. 9 per­
Sunday. lln had an guy was a good running 
opportllnity to rn­cent of
back. To me, he has 

lHHlct th o c hes t the total bump W11dnesday gotten better each year." offense whnn Eagles Ila!! in 1999 of Fam<Hs StBve w i t h
Jim Fassel

Van Buren and 1 . 5 6 7 
Giants coach 
yards,

Tommy McDonald prnsented him with the NFL play­nr of the week award. 
McDonald. a free spirit who danced on stage during his !tall nf Fame induction cere­mony, offered to give Staley a !'ow pointers on the only part of his ganrn he thought-needs improvement. 
"No, no, 110, 110. No chest bump," Staley said before slip­ping through a 'crowd of rnportcrs the way he does tacklers on Sunday aftr.rnoons. 
Staley, a quiet. unassuming rising star. shies away from lhe spotlight. But he can't keep hiding. 
"Duce is a very underrated 
running back. maybe the most underrated running back in the National Football League," coach Andy Reid said. "He can do so many things. lie runs the football very well. lle's as unselfish a carrying back as you' II find in th is league and he adds to that by being a good blocker and a good n1ceiver." 
For the last two seasons, 
Staley  has  been  the  only  
weapon  on  the Eagll's offense.  
II  e  
accnunt­ 

including 1 , 2 7 3 rushing. 
It was Staley's second con­secutive 1,()00-yard season, yet ht! barely receives any recogni­tion around the league. Staley's performance against Dallas, which included 61 yards receiving, is changing that. 
In addilion to being named player of the week, Staley received the first-ever NFL.com All-Heart Player of the Week award as voted by the fans through an online poll. 
"He may not get talked about !'or the Pro Bowl, but I promise you that other teams, when 
they're making their game 
plans, they' re thinking abnut 
No. 22," Eagles cornerback 
Bobby Taylor said. 
The New York Giants cer­
tainly have Staley on their 
minds heading into Sunday's 
game at Veterans Stadium. 
"I've always thought the guy was a good running back. To me, he has gotten bettor each year," Giants coach Jim Fassel said. "He started off this year with a bang. Going back to when he came out of college, he is a more physical runner than he has ever been." 
Staley. whose final run against the Cowboys on a 109­degree day was a 60-yarder, fell four yards short of Van Buren's team-record 205 yards in 1949. 
Staley was informed or the record on the sidelines, but declined to go back in the game. 
"It was just great being in the record books with Steve," Staley said. "When you do something like that. you have to go out and read up about it." 
McDonald, known l'or his reckless, gritty play, believes Staley would have easily fit into his era of football. 
"He plays with pride and that's what it takes," said McDonald, a wide receiver for the Eagles from 1957-63. "You want that to rub off on the other guys. Duce is my kind of guy." 

Rice ends holdout, rejoins Cardinals 
Associated Press 

TEMPE, Ariz. 
The Simeon Rice saga ended Thursday when the disgrun­tled defensive end signed a $4.25 million, one-year lender offer and returnnd in time to practice with the J\rizona Cardinals. 
Rice, whosfl 44 sacks over four years are more than the combined career total for the present front four of Arizona's defense, should play Sunday night in the Cardinals' homo opener against the Dallas Cowboys. 
But coach Vince Tobin wouldn't say how much. 
Thfl Cardinals have asked for a two-week roster exemp­tion, which would allow them to carry 54 playr,rs until Hice gets into football shape, and Tobin said the NH;s response would determine how much Rice is used. 
"He told me he's bflen rnally working out, and I certainly believe him," Tobin said. "Simeon is a guy that has done awful lot of. working out over his career. He loves that type of thing." 
Rice has been missed. 

The team was forced to field a patchwork defensive line in the season opener because of Rice's holdout and an injury to defensive end Andre Wadsworth. Arizona didn't have a sack in a 21-16 loss to the New York Giants. 
Hice mado no socrnt last year about his unhappirwss as the Cardinals struggled to a 6­10 record, but he sot a team record with 16 1/2 sacks and was positioned to get a big contract as a frnn agent. Then the Cardinals applied the fran­chiso tag. 
The dialogue turned bitter as Hice and his agent. Hoosnvelt Barnos, tried lo get the front omen to budge oil iL<; tender of'f'er, which is the avcragr. or the top fivr. salarir.s at the position. 
At one point, Hice called Phoenix ''the armpit of' the world." 
"You got to come in hem and bring a little different s11a­soning to the table. It's all good. It's funny. This is a game, and that's all it is." 
lie said he watched the Cardinals f'izzle against the Giants. and decided to accept the situation. 
"You wn't kick a brick and expect it not to hurt," Hice said. "I mean, the situation is what it is, and thern's no get­ting out of it. I love to do what I do. My heart brought me back -the passion of play­ing." 

"May the Blessed Mother bless this  "This CD reaches out to ND friends,  
work and all who enjoy it. "  family, and fans ofall ages."  
Fr. Ted Hesburgh, C.S.C.  Jim O'Connor  
Notre Dame President Emeritus  Manager, Hammes ND Bookstore  

A NOTRE DAl\rlE EXPERIENCE 
"This one should be a big hit with the ND crowd during the upcomingfootball season!" 
Fr. Bill Beauchamp, C.S.C Executive Vice President Emeritus 
"You have much to be proud of in this musical endeavor." 
Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S.C. Vice President for Student Affairs 
"/ am an ND parent and havejust returned/ram seeing my two sons get settled for another year. I believe that you have truly cap­tured the Spirit ofOur lady s University. Thanks!" 
-The Huebners 
Winston-Salem, NC ND Parents 
page 27
Friday, September 8, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

MILLENNIAL SERIES DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY­UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

GUSTAVO GUTIERREZ 
'I 
-' 
' 
PUBLIC LECTURE: 
COLLOQUIUM: 
'j ' 
' 
' ' 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11 
8:00 PM McKENNA HALL AUDITORIUM 
"THE ACTUALITY OF THE PREFERENTIAL OPTION FOR THE POOR" 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 
4:30 PM 131 DeBARTOLO HALL 
"THE CHURCH OF THE POOR: JOHN XXIII AND THE COUNCIL" 
THESE EVENTS ARE FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. 

page 28 The Ob,erver . SPORTS Friday, September 8, 2000 
OLYMPICS 
Positive drug tests spur debate before Sydney games 
Associated rrcss 
SYDNEY. Australia 
At least 10 athlr.tcs have recorded suspected positive tPsts for bannC'd drugs in out­of'-compt'lition controls before the Sydney Olympics. 
Those cusns have aris(m since the World Anti-Doping Agency bngan rondut'.ting unan­nounrt>d tPsts in April as part of a 1ww pffort lo wr.f'd out drug dwats. \VADA sc,:r('lary 1-{!\nl'ral llarry Salvasamy said Friday 
01w athlPtP. an 
u 11 i d e n t i I' i 11 d 
"One ofthe reasons !'or EPO,
cyclist from 
the perfor­
is to ensure that

Britain. has offi­
m an cc ­
ciallv brwn ron­the whole dop;ng 
euhancer
firm~~d as posi­
control ;s fair" or choice 
tivP. whilP tlw 
f o r 
othrrs art' still 
endurance
-undnr invl'sliga­Harry Salvasamy 
athletes. 

tion for "indica­WADA Secretary IOC med­
to be completed by the time the Olympics open Sept. 15. Lab results have been rnmpleted for 1,200 tests. 
During the games. the IOC will control drug-testing. which will be monitored by WADA. 
"One of the reasons is to ensure that the whole doping control is fair and seen to be fair," Salvasamy said. 
The IOC is conducting a total of' morn than ~.000 tP.sts bPforr. ancl during the games. both in and out of competition. These include between 300 and 500 blood an<l urinP tests 
tions ol' possiblP posilivP or irrPg­ular n~sults." Salvasamy said. 
H's up to tlw int<'rnational sports f'ndi>ralions to confirm ,tnd ,rnnounn• lhP t1'sl results. hP said. In sonH• cascs. the barkup "B" samples have yPt to b1~ tt'st1\cl or furtlwr clarifica­tions an' twt>drd. 
The world agPncy was s!'t up by Lim lntPnrntioniil Olympic Commiltl'c this vrar to coordi­natf' a global ~yst1!m of no­notin~ out-ol'-rompctition test­ing. ,·onsid,,rPd the most cf'foc­LivP way or catching drng usPrs 
Salvasamv said l ,81I tests llavP b1·Pn ;-arrind out so far. with a total of llHJl'I' than 2.000 
ical diri~c-
Lor Patrick Scharnasl'h said the nnw EPO Lesls would foeus on top­ranked athletes in long-clis­Lanc1• running. cyrling, triathlon, swimming and mod­ern p<'ntathlon. 
On Wednesday, China dropped 27 athletes and 13 coaches from its Olympic team after blood tPsts. The Chinese rowing association confirmed that seven rowNs !'ailed tests /'or EPO. while the Chinese Olympic Committee said other athlf1tes were cul due to "some suspicious cases in the blood tnst" or injury problnms. 
Recycle the Observer. 
On Thursday, a team official from Uzbekistan was stopped after customs officials found 
vials of suspected human growth hormone in his luggage at Sydney's airport. If the sub­
stancP. is tlrn banned drug, the official would bP-expelled from the games by the IOC. 

---------, 
~ 10% OFF : 
MAIN STREET 

FOOD PURCHASE I 
(with coupon) 
I I
The Best Real Pizza I in South Bend! I 
I
Featuring a "Full-Service" Beverage Menu 
Located around the corner from BW-3's I Phone Ahead I Dine-In or Carry-Out 
I 
Outdoor Patio 
I
110 N. Main Street 
I
234-2777 I 
___________ .J 

Friday, S:ptcmber 8, 2000 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 29 







Vince Bernardin Joe Fagan Jim Gallagher Greg Haake 
Evansville, Ind. South Boston, Mass. South Bend, Ind. Kansas City, Kan. Moreau Seminary Moreau Seminary Moreau Seminary Moreau Seminary ND'Ol Stonehill College, '89 ND'98 ND'99 
The Congregation of Holy Cross Welcomes its Newest Seminarians 
"We wished to abandon all to follow Christ." 
Matt Biergans Constitutions ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross3 J.8 David Halm 
Grand Ledge, Mich. Clyde, Ohio Moreau Seminary Old College ND'97 ND'04 



Brian Carpenter 
·· Rochester, NY f Moreau Seminary ND '98 

Steve Davidson 
Oak Lawn, Ill. Old College ND '03 

JeffDrocco 
Cupertino, Calif Old College ND '04 




www.nd.edu/ -vocation ANSWER~ 
THE CALL '<!::I 

Tom Hofmann 
Coon Rapids, Minn. Old College ND'04 

Stephen Koeth 
Staten Island, NY Moreau Seminary ND'99 

Matt Kutz 
Rolla, Mo. Moreau Seminary ND'99 









David Esch Aaron Micbka Tim O'Malley Joey Pietrangelo Matt Vereecke Pete McCormick 
South Bend, Ind. Houston, Tex. Marysville, Tenn. Germantown, Tenn. Walker, Mich. Grand Rapids, Mich. Old College Old College Old College Moreau Seminary Old College Moreau Seminary ND'03 ND'04 ND'04 ND '98 ACE '00 ND'04 Grand Valley State '00 

page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 8, 2000 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Freshmen lead Belles at Aquinas Invitational 

By KATIE McVOY As~im1m Sporrs Editor 
The Saint Mary's cross country team begins its sea­S()n this weekend with high hopes pinned on the fresh­men. 
"All of the freshmen arc very good," junior Melissa Cross said. "With only four of us returning. we want to run together." 
The Belles will open their season at the Aquinas Invitational at 5 p.m. Friday. 
Tlw freshman mombtHs of th,• team look at the race as a chancp to adjust to running at a college level and to give som1Hhing new to the team. 
"I'm excited for the meet." freshman Jessica Millanes said. "It's going to be a lot different than what I'm used to." 
Hut. adds Millanes. the freshmen don't foe! any pres­sure. 
"We're all excited to do well and bring somothing new to the tt>am." she said. 
Millanes is recovering from an injury she sustained last year. 
"This year is really a step­ping stone for me," she said. "I just want to get through the year injury free." 
Because tho team is so young, the women want to use this meet to feel more comfortable running with each other. 
"We want to focus on run­ning together and really get­ting to know each other," Goss said. 
Saint Mary's finished fifth out of five teams last year at the Aquinas Invitational, but they am not focused on where they will finish this race. 
"I think we'JI do well," Gross said. "But our goal is to run together." 
Saint Mary's will head off at Grand Rapids against the Aquinas Saints. who are ranked 14th in the N AIA. 
Coach Dave Barstis' goal for his team this year is to finish in the top five of the MIAA after an eighth-place finish in 
() 

FREE classifieds observer.nd.edu 

the MIAA Jamboree last year. ish higher than third in any Alma in the final MIAA rank-The Belles, who did not fin-meet last sAason, only bested ings. 

The Castle of Flags 
GO IRISH!!!! 
FLAGS INTERNATIONAL 
10845 McKinley Highway Osceola, Indiana 46561 Telephone: 219-674-5125 Visit us on the web at www.fla2l.net 
Widest selection of Notre Dame flags, banners, and related items in the country. 10% discount for stu-­dents, faculty and staff with ND photo ID. 
Over 70 varieties of U.S. flags, states and U.S. territories; international flags from around the world: 
We do Mondays like no place else. Eajoy a double order of fajifas (enousJi for fwo) for jusf .10! 
parfy platters are perfect for faiJeatin 
or any special occasion. 
And don'f foreef abouf our Bi0 Mouth Bureers. Baby Back Ribs. Fajitas. Salads and more. Dine in or eef if to fF­
*offer valid every Monday 11 am-
close 
Mishawaka 
4810 Grape Rd. 
219.271.1330 

Friday, September 8, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 31 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Revenge, respect on the line in rubber match 
trash." said then-freshman Ali

. Irish, Broncos 
Lovelace, who would command square off after respect just hours later. "We spliting '99 series just tried to stay focused and 
tried to give them what they deserved." With emotions and tensions at

By KEVIN BERCHOU an all-time high, Waldrum fur­
Spom \'\'rim 
ther stoked the fires by deciding that his squad would don the

lt's a game the Santa Clara 
green jerseys, traditionally

Broncos still shudder to think worn by Noire Dame when cast
about. It's a game whose mere 
in the role of underdog, againstnrnnlio11 still has the Notre 

Santa Clara. After initially

Danw Fighting Irish numb with thinking the jerseys could not
happinnss. But it's a game that 
he ordered in time for the

both team lParm; will never for­
game, Waldrum ended up

gPt 
securing the enchanted gar­

Tonight marks the rematch, 
ments just in timl'. The greenround two. if' vou will, of a bril­jerseys were laid out when theliant clash th,it radically altered players entered the lockeroom two teams' f'ates. When the hours prior to kickoff.

Irish stunnPd tlrn previously 
'"It was a surprise." said

undci'(\alcd Broncos l -0 in the 
Lovelace. "I think that added

NC;\;\ s(imifinals the soccf\r 
some extramotivation."

world ~·as turn('d upside down. 
Little did the frish know thatSanta Clara enters play tonight their wearing green would soon

trying only to restore what it leave the Broncos in various
lwlicves is tlrn rightful order. 
stages of' blue.

This timP they want to be on 
top, 
Santa Clara was 23-0, and 
The Game 

playing ni)ar its home tnrf. 
Notre Dame had no chance. 

when a Notre' lJame team clad 
How could they? They were 

in grt'en, denied them a chance playing undefeated No.1-ranked 
to play for the title they felt they 
Santa Clara in the Broncos' 

had almost already won. The 
backyard, and 14,000 partisan 

upset propelled Notre Dame fans had packed the place
onto the big stage, while Santa 
despite the 35-degree game

Clara was relegated to the side­time wind chill factor. 
lines bemoaning a lost opportu­BP-fore the largest crowd ever nity to claim a place among his­to witness a collegiate women's tory's greatest teams. 
soccer game, the Irish battled the Broncos in what would be a game for the ages.

The Prelude 
Santa Clara played the part of

After being whipped by the 
Goliath to Notre Dame's David,Broncos earlier in the season 4­looking every bit like the No. 12, the Irish arrived in San Jose, juggernaut that they were. TheCalif. already plenty motivated. 

Broncos outshot the Irish 17-3Disheartened by their play in and possessed the ball for whatthat first meeting. Notre Dame 

seemed like an eternity, The

felt it had something to prove. 
Irish were forced to play defen­"They beat us bad," said Irish sively to avoid getting embar­

head coach Randy Waldrum. 
rassed.

"They scored a bunch early and 
Senior goalkeeper LaKeysia

we were playing catch up from state. stunned. With Santa Clara back in
Beene turned in a career per­

there." "I don't remember any town, roles have been reversed.
formance in a career game. The Aftermath 
Aftnr big wins over national defenders being around," said Still seemingly not recovered
Playing as if the ghosts of Notre Lovelace swears she heard 
powers Nebraska and Stanford Lovelace. "I just hit it with my from the upsetting loss to the
Dame's athletic past were cheering when her goal crossed 
in games leading up to the right foot and hoped it went in." Irish, S.anta Clara is ranked
beside her in the goal, Beene the line, though only 200 fans of 
semifinals, the team had been So focused was Lovelace that third and saw its 45-match reg­
played with such confidence Irish allegiance were present.
f'inally rounding into form. she didn't even notice the three ular season home winning
that her teammates could not "It felt like the place erupted,"
ConfidencP was high. Santa Clara defenders she left streak end earlier this week.
help but feed off her. Beene Lovelace said. "It was weird 
"Things started to click for us on her wake towards the goal Santa Clara is now David to
erected a brick wall turning since we had few fans." 
then." said Waldrum. "We felt and a place in Notre Dame his­Notre Dame's second-ranked
back countless glorious Perhaps Lovelace was hearing 
WA had enough talent to com­tory. Goliath.
chances, while keeping her her own screams of joy, or 
pete with them." Films show Lovelace graceful­But Lovelace is determined to
teammates close. She all but maybe those of her teammates 
Though no additional motiva­ly eluding three Bronco defend­avoid an upset of Biblical pro­
shot Goliath between the eyes and coach, because the rest of 
tion was needed, as a birth in ers but she can't even remem­portions and does not plan on 
were her slingshot. the stadium was errily silent. 
the finals was on the line, Santa ber being there. history repeating itself. This
"They dominated almost the This wasn't the way it was sup­
Clara provided some by sticking Trailing for the first time all time, Lovelace feels Goliath's
whole game," Lovelace said. posed to happen.
its foot in its collective mouth. season long, Santa Clara arsenal will be too much for
"We just tried to give ourselves After the game, but for the 
During an NCAA welcome mounted one last chance. But David's slingshot. 
a chance." tiny pocket of green, the place
banquet for the final four Beene, Lovelace and the rest of "We want to prove it wasn't a
And then lightning struck. more resembled a morgue than 
teams. a Santa Clara player said women in green were equal to fluke,' said Lovelace.
Bronco goalie Crystal Gordon an athletic field. 
that they could beat Notre the task. Indeed if all David can sling
saw her goal kick returned right "It was kind if fun, just to see 
Oame playing at only 90 per­When the final gun sounded, this time is insults before the
back at her. Nancy Makenic them shocked," said Lovelace. 
cent. The Broncos anticipated it was green on green as the game, Goliath will prevail
punched the ball in the direc­"It was awesome." 
walking all over the Irish and Irish stormed the pitch exulting before a crowd that this time
tion of Lovelace, whose right "It was an experience for me," 
afforded them no respect. in their finest hour. Goliath might just be cheering in the
foot sent the ball into the net said Waldrum. "It doesn't get
"They were talking a lot of trudged off to the sidelines, end.
and the Irish into a euphoric any better than that." 

Soccer 
continued from page 40 
Team for the season's first month. Looking Lo fill the void is highly touted sophomore Aly Wagner, the team's loading scorer. 
Waldrum's troops are still looking for the proper formation as they prepare to march towards the national title. After losing so many players to gradua­tion, Waldrum has been experimenting with numerous freshmen, forever tin­kering, always looking to insert them into the right role. What is certain is that senior All-American Anne Makinen is the team's leader. Who her co-stars will be is uncertain. Freshmen After attempting to corral the Amy Warner play~~d spectacularly Broncos the Irish will try to fly with the against Providence, scoring three Cardinal, an undefeated squad that times, and looks Waldrum feels could 
promising. Waldrum be the team to beat.
"It's our toughest

also points to a class­"If I had to pick a mate of Warner's, competition so far and favorite, I have to go Amanda Guertin, as it's just going to be a with them,'' Waldrum 
an impact player of said. "They didn't lose
great atmosphere." 
the future. much and they have a 
"Amanda is going to great freshmen be one to watch," Randy Waldrum group." Waldrum gushed. The Cardinal will
Irish women's soccer coach
"She's so sophisticat­also look to exact a ed around the goal. measure of revenge on She's going to be big for us." the Irish, after falling 1-0 in the third 
The Irish will have to come up big in round of last year's NCAA Tournament. order to withstand this weekend's Stanford has yet to allow a single onslaught. goal after blanking St. Mary's and Wisconsin by scores of 4-0 and 2-0 respectively. 
The brightest feather in the Cardinal cap is freshmen Marcie Ward, a potent goal scoring threat that will look to give the Irish fits on defense. 
The tournament will serve as a barometer for each team, allowing them to sec exactly how well they match up against the nation's best. Waldrum is excited. 
"It's our toughest competition so far, and it's just going to be a great atmos­phere," he said. 
Waldrum is hopeful that the celebrat­ed tourney will be well attended. 
"It's such a great thing for our cam­pus and our community, I hope people come out to watch," Waldrum added. 
page 32 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 8, 2000 
OBSERVER.ND.EDU ..... toe outsi e t 
e 
......... ta 
ium wit 
no tic ets? 

THE
BSE 

Next time don't miss the big game. Use FREE Observer Online Classifieds to buy and sell tickets. Never miss another great Notre Dame football moment. 
Observer online classifieds are easy to post, easy , _ to search and, best of all, completely free. While : ' you're finding your tickets, be sure to check out all the Observer sports, news, Viewpoint and Scene -articles on the Web. The Observer Online is your source for tickets to the big game and news about 
~ the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities; 
i 
1 
. OBSERVER.ND.EDU
-

Friday, September 8, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 33 
GOLF NFL 
Woods faces trouble at Canadian Open 
A•soci,ted Pres, 
We all learn from one another. The RC/A gives you a chance to walk with someone as you explore your faith and find your place in the Church. Join us on this adventure of faith. 
0MPUS 
-
MNISTRY 
For more info, contact: 
Tami Schmitz 
@ 
631-3016 
Badin Hall 
Find out more about: 
•The Sacraments of Initiation 
BAPTISM, EUCHARIST & CONFIRMATION: for unbaptized persons wanting to become a member of the Catholic Church. 
•Fuu COMMUNION: 
for baptized persons wanting Full Communion in the Catholic tradition. 
INFO SESSION 

Sunday, Sepiember 10th LaFortune1s Notre Dame Room 1:00 -2:00pm 
18th. Suth-erland ran off a string of six pars. then hit a 4­iron to 6 feet for his only birdie on front nine. 
It was the first time all year Woods began a tournament in the afternoon. Under warm, sunny skies with a fickle breeze, several early finishers predicted Woods would waste liLtle Lime working his way toward the lead. 
For a while, they were right. "All of a sudden, it kind of went south,"Woods said. 
He was 3 under through eight holes when his game unraveled quickly, starting with a three­putt from 20 feet on Nu. 9. 
Woods pulled his drive into the trees on No. 11 and tried to play out of the rough and over the trees to the green guarde<l by water. But he hit it heavy and went into the pond, leading to his first double-bogey since the 12th hole of the third round in the PGA Championship. 
The fun was only starting. 
Ho hooked his second shot into the par-5 13th behind a TV tower to take away his chance for birdie, missed the nPxt green and took a bogey. He failed to birdie the par-5 16th when his approach from the rough sailed over the green into a hunker. 
"The back nine was not pret­ty, "he said. "As bad as I felt, to shoot even par is pretty good." 
Woods, who hit seven of nine greens on the front, hit only two greens in regulation on the back nine as he struggled to stay in the short grass. 
He'll need to do better than that to kick his Canadian habit. The last time Woods played in the Canadian Open, he missed the cut in 1997 at Hoyal 
Montreal. It's the only time he 
missed a cut in his PGA Tour 
career. 

He returns as a megastar, 
and while Tigermania in 
Canada was tame compared 
to other stops, it was no less 
evident. The chart showing 
where players were on the 
course included a tiger's tail, 
and one cameraman carried a 
handheld microphone that 
had a Tigger doll attached. 

-2 Bdrm Apts Available -Student Leases Available -Under $500 per Month -4 Blocks From Campus -2nd Semester Availability 
"The Best Value In Off Campus Living" 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 
Jones wants new stadium 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 

The stadium reported to have a hole in the roof so God can watch his team evidently is losing its luster with Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones. 
In an interview with The Dallas Morning News, Jones said time is running out for the Cowboys to eventually move into a 100,000-seat stadium of Super Bowl quality, with grass. a retractable roof and a surrounding enter­tainment district. 
"It's never had a time frame that realistically cre­ated any energy or any momentum," Jones told the News in Thursday's edi­tions. "I didn't have that three or four years ago. Ten years out, it was hard to get a lot of people's attention for something that wasn't going to hap­pen (right away)." 
It could take as long as five years to design, 
finance and build  a  new  
stadium,  which  has  
prompted Jones to  recon­ 

sider the time frame to upgrade the Cowboy's home. 
"What we've got to do is resolve whether we 're going to renovate and for all practical purposes have a new stadium there in Irving or someplace else," Jones said. 
The earliest the Cowboys could move out of Texas Stadium is 2006, two years earlier than the team's lease ends with the city of Irving, which owns the sta­dium. 
Jones said he wants a 2­million-square-foot stadi­um, about twice the size of Texas Stadium, which seats 65,675 and cost $35 million to build in 1971. 
page 34 

The Observer . SPORTS hiday, September 8, 2000 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Rookie goalkeeper shows talent, poise for Irish 
thP distractions that campus Ontario. The two sham a very
Sperial to Ihe Observer teammates. Many people won­though tlrn succ(~ss of' on!' lit'c entails and to focus solely unique relationship: best der, however. how tlwv am 
means that tlrn otlwr will bi• 
ListPning Ln Gn,g Tail speak about tlrn way in whid1 his cu!IPgiatf' SO('C'.!'l' r,arPPr S1'!1n1S to h,lVt! takPn off during tlw lust fp,,• days, 011t' would think that he was used to nil Lhis atlrn­tion. ill' is abl,• to maintain his poisP a n d 
rPspond lo qunstions with the 
t'asf' of a VPL<'ran who has 
st\ en his 11 a 111 •~ up in Ii g hts 
rnorr• timni; than hc1 ('an 
rtmH,mbPr. 
It's hard to b<'licv1~ that tlrn 
sophomore goalkncpPr saw 
only 35;:rn minutes of playing 
t.imn during his !irst srason at 
Notrn Dami'. After that quiet 
introduction to the collegial(! 
lnvel, Tait's pcrformanrn last 
wrPknnd at thn UNLV 
l;ila/SnickPrs llebnl Classic in 
I.as VPgas, Nnv .. turned up th!' 
volume a few notchns. llis 
ninP saves in 210 minutes of' 
play against New M.t:~xico and 
UNLV earned him the honor or 
being naml'tl the l,ournament's 
Mosl Valuable Playor. 
Combinr, that with the 131(; 
EAST's (;oalkeeper of the 
WnPk award. and you'll SOP 
h1nv q u ic k I y hc · s m ad e a n 
impact for tlw Irish. 
In n•alitv. Tait has ,wvnr sparkPd th.is kind of a craw brd'orP. PVPn whilP he was il'ading his high srhool soccc,r lPam. Christian Broth(~rs Acad,mw, to its onlv undefrat­Pd sPas1;11 in history antl earn­ing a 11-c ity. a II -c;rn for P n c P. and all-state honors as a sPnior. Although it would bt> quit,· Pasy for tlw 6-] nativP of Faynlt!•villP, N.Y., to bc dis­tractl'd by tll!' atwnlion, lw has mana.gcd to knl)p •~very­thing in pPrspPrtivc and lo takP things onP day at a tinw. 
"I'm uxcitl'd about ;di of this." lw says. "It hasn't hap­p1·1wd to 1111' l)pfon·. bul it's not n•ally ovPrwhPlming. My main ronr1•rn is ronlinuing lo play WPll. .\II tlw attPnlion has actually puslwd nw hardPr." 
Finding inspiration to work nn soccer. Through triple ses­sions and intense workouts, tl1c team nrnlded together and honPd the skills that thev had 


work(1d  on  throughou't the  
summer.  
WhilP he  was  thnre, Tait  

considered his goals !'or the season. As thP only goalkeeper on the team who had seen any playing time a year ago, he rPrognizPd the potential that the season brought with it. Orw of the goals trn set wa.s to earn BIG FAST (;oalkecpP.r of the WPek honors. "llern it is the t'irst week or the season. and I've alrflady earned it," Tait smiles. "To be honest. getting arrnladPs at thP !'Ollfi­giate lcvel is !1111 culmination of a lot of years of hard work." 
Upon his arrival at Notre Dame. Tait found another playPr who would continue to inspire him to achieve. Compc>ling for the same posi­tion is Colo Straub, a 6-1 sophomore from Oakville, 
hardPr has 1wv<•r bPPn a prob-.----­11• m bPfor" for Tait. Through1Jt1t high school. his main goal was to prnpar!' him­s!-Ir b()th a Cad(' Ill iCaII y and athlt•lirally for a soccPr can\!'I' at a Division I srhool. llis hard work and PITorts on tlw field. Pariwd him a spot on tlw East Olympic Development l'rngram·s squad during his junior and si,nior years in high sd10ol. Along with the oppor­tunity to train with nlitl' Anwri('an athlPttis, thP honor t'nab!f•d him to spPnd 10 days ill l'ILris in lhl' Slllll!11Pr or lCJ<J8 and l O days in Paris and Switwrland during tlrn sum­nH'r of I1)91J. Tim cornpPlition 
lw cnrounwrnd tlwrP provitlnd additional inccntivP lo work on his skills. 
"To SP!' guys my own age playing at sul'h a high IPvPl rrally opl'1wd my 1°y<'s to ho\.\' good I 1·ould lw." Tait r111·alls. 
!'laying at that high IPvPI is Pxartly what Tait had 1•11vi­sio1wd · l'or this snason. BPf'orP lhl' s1',ls1111 started. tlw team sp(•nt a WPPk al a training ramp in St. .loscph'i; County in Mid1iga11. ThP !'.amp <:nabled tlw lPam to t'rPn thPmsPlves of' 
friends, roommates, and abl<' to stay so close ·even on the bonch. 
nts • Gift Certificates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
,---­
VOTE01t1 

For Your Best Tan Ever!
Iby people 

Iwho know Get a Fun Tan! 

tanning!
I I 

1111 

I

Tan until the end of the year at FUN T.AN for a ONE TIME COST of only $100. SIGN UP NOW! The sooner you do, the more tanning you'll get! I AND when you bring in this coupon get 25% off our wide selection of tanning lotions! 
I 

272-7653 NEW University Location State Road 23 & Ironwood I I 256-9656 Corner of Grape and McKinley 291-2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironwood__J 
·Bragging rights. 
Tho CoHegiato Olympic Moclal Raco is on! Follow the tally with the GE Colt1.:"ge M0dal Tracker, only on N_8COlympics.com. 
A perfect meeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday lliring 
ND. Home Football Weekends. 
Everyone Welcome 
Live Music Fridays, 2 -6p.m. 
Grilled Burgers, Brats, and Other Specialties Cold Beverages & Spirits 


60" Screen TV's Fully Enclosed Tent 
next to the N.D. Bookstore. 



Friday, September 8, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 35 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Injured Badger can't
Tech answers questions in win 

A.ssuciatcd l'res.s 
GtrnENVILLE, N.C. 
Virginia Tech answered some major questions about its young football team Thursday night, all whi!n niitcr-v· .. T h 45
aling its 1rgm1a ec g r n a t n s t East Carolina 28 
str<mgth ­
spncial Warns. 
Tlw 10th-ranked llokies (2-0. ranked No. CJ in the ESPN/lJSA Today coachr.s· poll) blocked lwo kicks, disrupted anothor 01m doep in East Carolina terri­tory and had an 87-yard punt rnturn in th(! first half en route to a 45-28 victory. 
"It's not just coming out and blocking a kick. it's making the opponPnl n11rvous for a bad snap or a bobble," said Cory Jiird. who .enrnrgnd from the lorker room and grabbed a piece nl' turf' Lo lake back to Blacksburg. Va., in a lunch bucki~t. "We cam<' out and i11timidatod." 
Michael Vick barely broke a swnat in the opnning :rn min­ul<!S, completing live passes for S6 yards. But Virginia Tech still manag<'d a 31-0 lnad in beating the Pirates ( 1-1 J for tlrn fifth straight timP sim'c 1993. 
"At halftimP I told tlwm we probably had lost tlw l"ootball ganw." East Carolina coach St<•v<' 1.ogan said hl\ told his dub. "I asked them. ·11ow do you want to finish this game?"' 
Vick closPd with 106 yards passing and 13 yards rushing, but tlrn lloki<'s didn't nncd a big game f'rom tlwir star quarter­b,H"k. 
"It was thosP other 21 cats out tlwrp," Logan said. "I tell you. tlwy'rp all good." 
Vi rgi 11 ia Tech bl ock<•d 63 kicks in the '90s under coach Frank Beamer and addP-d a punt and a field goal against a reeling East Carolina team that had practiced hard all week in an attempt to protect punter Wes Herlocker. 
But Herlocker wasn't to blamo for two disastrous punt attempts throe minutes apart that gave the Hokies a quick 10-0 !Pad in the first quarter and helped turn the game around. 
I-forlockcr was dropped at the East Carolina 35 after the ball camP skidding back to him from snapper Hyan Luckadoo. That miscue resulted in a 46­ya rd field goal by Carter Warley. 
The next snap from Luckadoo was high, and Wayne Ward burst through to block the kick. Bird scooped up the ball and raced into the end zone untouchPd from 9 vards out. 
"We wern way" too high to play this game." Logan said. "It was very uncharacteristic play for this football program." 
Things didn't get much better for East Carolina's offonse. Late in the opening quarter, David Garrard was intercepted as he was being bit al his 17. Thirty­five seconds later, Andre' Kendrick bolted in from 14 yards and the rout was on. 
Dnspite leading 17-0, Kendrick's run was Virginia Tech 's first offensive first down. 
Tim llokies added a 7-yard scoring run from Jarrett Ferguson before the special teams took over again. 
The Pirates finally got off a decent punt, but Andre Davis' rnturnod it 87 yards, faking out Herlocker oq his final move. for a 31-0 lead. The return was the second longest in school histo­ry. 

East Carolina crossed mid­field late in the second quarter, but a 25-yard field goal attempt was -you guessed it ­blocked. The block was the 78th in 152 games under Beamer. 
Virginia Tech's dofonso, criti­cized for giving up more than 400 yards to Akron in Saturday's season-opening 52­23 win, limited the Pirates to 132 yards in the opening half. 
"I thought we took a big step," Beamer said. "For us to have as many young guys as we do and to play as well as we did, I am very pleased. It shows you that if you get some big plays in the kicking game, get a turnover, you can get control of the game very quickly." 
East Carolina closed to'31-14 with 4:08 !efl in the third quar­ter, but Lee Suggs raced 56 yards untouched less than a minute later to halt the Pirates' momentum. 
"I think they were taken back [by the blocked kicksl, but East Carolina is not going to quit on you," Beamer said. "They showed you that last year against Miami." 
The Pirates were nearly per­fect in a 38-0 opening victory over Duke on Saturday, but started this game with a pass­interference penalty as Vick went deep on the first play. 
East Carolina held, but made a major mistake on offense as a 52-yard pass play to the Virginia Tech 5 was called back because of an illegal formation. 
Then the kicking woes began and things unraveled for the Pirates in front of 45,123 -the second largest crowd in Dowdy­Fickteri Stadium history. 
serve suspension 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis. 

Wisconsin wide receiver Chris Chambers won't be allowed to serve his three­game suspension while injured after all. 
NCAA spokesman Wally Renfro said Thursday the organization was incorrect when it announced last week a_ player can serve a suspen­swn while too injured to play. 
But the NCAA docs not determine if a player is physi­cally unable to play, leaving that decision up to the univer­sity. 
Chambers is one of 26 Wisconsin football players the NCAA suspended last weeks for one to three games for receiving unadvertised dis­counts at a shore store. 
The NCAA gave the univer­sity a four-week window for p!ayers to serve the suspen­s10ns, beginning with Wisconsin's season opener against Western Michigan last 
week and ending with its game against Northwestern on Sept. 23. 
The fifth-ranked Badgers play Oregon on Saturday. 
Renfro said Wisconsin com­pliance officer Tim Bald has been told Chambers won't be able lo serve the suspension while injured. 
Bald declined to comment 
when  contacted  by  The  
Associated  Press  on  
Thursday.  

Chambers was expected to be out until at least the end of September because of a stress fracture in his right foot. 
Coaches listed him as one of the players susp<mded for the Western Michigan game, believing he might be able to serve out his discipline while injured. 
Instead, Chambers will like­ly have to sit out until at least mid-October. 
He led the team last year in receptions ( 41 ), receiving yards (578) and receiving touchdowns (4). 
Sophomores & Juniors! 
$CHOLAR$HIP$ AVAILABLE NOW! 
Non-competitive Scholarships -$17,480 annually, are available for select majors for sophomores and for ALL juniors! 
AFROTC -Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676 I or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
UNDERGRADUATE SI1JDY ABROAD 
---.--­
GREAT BRITAIN AUSTRALIA IRELAND NEW ZEALAND 
----.---­
ARGENTINA CHILE COSTA RICA 
Fall, Spring or Full Year. Scholarships Auailable. 
Study Abroad Information Session: 
Representative:  Brad Lauman  
Date:  Monday, September 11  
Location:  4:00 4:30  4:30 Latin America Programs -5:00 UK, Ireland, Australia  
and New Zealand  

O'Shaugbnessy Hall Room# 119 (All Meetings) 
For further information contact the ln.stirute for Srudy Abroad. Butler University, 4600 Sunser Avenue, Indianapolis, IN 46208, Tel; 800/858-0229 Fax: 317/940-9704 
INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD BUTLER UNIVERSITY 
page 36 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 8, 2000 
,., .·'.., 
: ,"l• .~ i ,. ·.•. ' 
I, . ;;: , .•• 

Friday, September 8, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 37 
VOLLEYBALL 
Winless Belles hope 'practice makes perfect' at home 
. Saint Mary's falls to Adrian College in  Hiek thinks that the lack of practice was a major factor in the loss.  is young. Bick feels that tho skills are not lacking in the team. They are  did come from the match. Junior Angela Meyers recorded 10 kills  tournament and then come to South Bend to face the Belles. Biek hopes that consistent  
3 games  "In seven games, we've only had one day of practice," Biek  just not working together and  "We've lacked that heart  and · 15 digs by the  practices around.  will  turn  things  
said. "We've seen a lot of things  using the skills  we need. We have the  end of the  "We're just going to try and  
By MOLLY MCVOY Saim Mary's Editor  to improve on, but we haven't had a chance to address them." The Bulldogs came into the  they have according to Biek.  skills. We're just not playing out positions to  day. S a i n t Mary's  refocus this week," Biek said. 'Tm just kinda looking at it that way."  
Julie Sclmrnder-Biek is hop­ing that the old adage "practice  match with a record of 4-1, whereas the Belles came in 0-6.  ''We've lacked that heart we  the fullest."  f a c e s Kalamazoo  Biek has not coached at Saint Mary's for several years so she  
makes perfect" can pull the Saint Mary's vollnyball team  They lost 3-15, 4-15 and 5-15. "I don't know if the competi­ need," Riek said. "We have the  Julie Schroeder-Biek  for the fast h o m c  is not sure as to what to expect going into Tuesday's game  
out or its 0-7 season start.  tion was overwhelming. We are  skills. We're just  Saint Mary's volleyball coach  match  of  against Kalamazoo.  
The Belles dropped their sev­ a young team," Biek said.  not playing our  the year on  "I do know their coach and  
(inth game this season  to the  The  team  only  has  three  positions to the  Tuesday.  she always does a  great Job,"  
Bulldogs of Adrian College on  rt:>turning players, one of which  fullest."  The Hornets have a record of  Biek said. 'Tm sure it will be a  
Wednesday, and head coach  is a senior. Although the team  Bick said that one good thing  1-4 going into this weekends  tough game."  

'IToop 


'ityouts 
The only hip-hop dance team on campus for guys and girls 
Learn a routine at the Tryout Practice Times: 301 Rockne 
Tues, Sept 12 6:30pm -8:00pm 
Thurs, Sept 14 6:30pm-8:00pm 
Tryout: 219Rockne 

Sun, Sept 17, starts 8:30pm 
CONTACT: 

Molly Niquette (mniquett@nd.edu) 243-8413 Gretchen Minick (minick.l@nd.edu) 277-1058 Gina Corpuz (rcorpuz@nd.edu) 621-8524 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
, 

Belles prepare for weekend 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame football team isn't the only athletic program in the community facing a tough weekend. The Saint Mary's soccer team goes into the weekend facing its toughest road trip yet. 
The Belles play the DePauw Tigers, the defend­ing SCAC champion on Sept. 9 and the fledgling but red­hot Rose-Hulman Engineers on Sept. 10. 
"The whole weekend is going to be tough." said Katy Robinson. Belles co-captain and veteran defender. "DePauw is No. 5 in the country." ' 
The DePauw Tigers, led by head coach John Carter, are the defending Southern Collegiate Athletic Conference Champs, and were ranked fifth in the National Soccer Coaches Association of America Division III Women's presea­son poll. In the 1999 postsea­son, the Tigers reached the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Division III tournament, fin­ishing last season with a 16­3-2 record. 
"The DePauw game will be a hard-fought battle," said DePauw, the Belles travel to Jason Milligan, Belles head Terre Haute to face the coach. "DePauw we know we Fighting Engineers of Rose­have to come out and play Hulman Institute of real hard." Techology, a squad who is in 

On Sept. 2, the Tigers their second year at the var­opened their sity level. season with "I know
'The whole weekend is 
a shutout of that will
going to be tough. 
John Carroll, be a good with goals DePauw is No. 5 in the game," from seniors Milligan
country.,,
K r i s t i said. "But 1 Merrill, thought we Christina Kart Robinson did a good 
Matteucci, Saint Mary's defender job coming 
and Beth W a I s e . Sophomore Mary Palecek was in goal for DePauw, making three saves from John Carroll's three shots. 
The following day, DePauw faced Denison and the game ended in a tie after two over­times. Walse saved her team from a loss late in the game, as her goal forced the over­time and the tie. Freshman Alison Glibkoski stood between the pipes for that game, ending with four saves in 120 minutes of play. 
"We're just going to go at it like its any other game and take it to them," Milligan said. "We'll worry about one game at a time." 
After the contest at out and 

moving the ball around against Alma, one of the best starts we've had all year." 
The Lady Engineers are a new addition to the varsity athletic program at Rose­Hulman, primarily because the school has only admitted women to the top-ranked engineering school for six years. The women's soccer team played at the club level for two seasons prior to its joining the ranks of other Division III varsity soccer programs. The Fighting Engineers are led by head coach Greg Ruark, who is also the men's soccer head coach and athletic director at Rose-Hulman. 
The 1999 season, its 
first at the varsity level, opened with a 3-0 shutout of Franklin College. The Engineers finished last season 4­13 and 1-8 in the SCAC. well behind DePauw. 
Meg Lyman, a senior at Rose, stands in goal for the Engineers this season. Lyman saw her first collegiate action in the net on Sept. 3, with a 2-1 win over Blackburn College. Hose senior Megan Switzer and junior Christine Gouthro both scored for the EnginAers to cement the victory. 
Coming off a solid vic­tory over the Alma Scots, the Belles refuse to rest on their laurels, and enter the weekend determined to emerge victorious. They stand secure in the knowledge of their skill and ability to work together as a team. 
"We're going in with confidence," Robinson said. "After Alma we've got our heads up. We're pumped." 


Runners 
continued from page 40 
Lion," Con1wllv said. "Mol'!! l Ii a 11 a n y t h i 11 g w I' ,w f' d 111 worry alloul c!oi11g what wn'ro capahlP ol' doing rather than worrying about tlw 1·om1rnti­tion." 
Si111•p Notri. IJanw do1is not racr• th 1• f'o Ilowing WPP kl' 11CI. Connl'lly plans lo run thP nntirl' [Pam. SophomorP J1•11nif'Pr lland!Py and l'rPsh­111a11 M1•ga.11 .lollnsnn arP among tlw n11111Prs 1n1•dktPd to Pxn·l for Llw Irish. 
"I don't hav1• any n•al high l'XjWl'lHlions Sill('{' il's Olll' first llWl'l," .lohnson said. "I just want to improvf' a lot this st>a­
.. 
SOil. 
Tlw Valpo n1<wl ·will Sl'l'YI' as a good s!Ppping stonn for tlw Irish. hut is not a major focus of tlw ir Sf'/ISOII. 
"It's bPl'll so long sincn most 1wopl1• lrnvP ral'ncl," Conndly said. "This isn't a race wlwre we'rt• going to buck away from 011r training to compntn WPII." 
T!w nHHJl lakns place today at S p.m. 
page 38 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 8, 2000 
-.; ,:
.·-i ..:•:· ' -:~ 
<'"'
..... '' 

.,..,,,.-.:'. 
~ .. ' 
t) 
JOHN DAILY/The Observer 

Senior Ryan Shay hangs in with the pack at last season's NCAA Championships. Shay, who competed in the Olympic Trials this 
summer, is still recovering and may not compete this season. 
f Faber Consulting is 
seeking the brightest 
minds 
...to help transform our clients' data assets into valuable Business lntel!igence. 
Business Intelligence will separate the winners 
from the losers in the coming decade. That's wl'ly 
Faber is looking for self-motivated, intelligent 
people with acomputer studies background to 
contribute to our explosive growth and become 
our next generation of consultants. 
We offer achallenging work environment with exceptional opportunities for training and career advancement. And every "Faberite" receives an equity stake in our business. 
Use Go lRISH to sign up immediately for an interview-the schedule fills quickly. We're interviewing Monday, October 2nd at the Career Center. Or attend our information session on Sunday, October 1st from 7~8 p.m.in Foster, Room 306 at the Lafortune Student Center. Refreshments will be served. 
We are an Equal Opportunit}' Employer 
Women's Safety & Self-Defense 

The objective of this course is to expose women to basic 
self-defense techniques as used in real-life crisis sih1a­tions. 
Classes Begin Monday, September 11 10 Sessions on Mondays & Wednesdays 6:00-7:15 Rockne Memorial RM. 219 
Register in Advance at RecSports Registration Fee is $20.00 Call 631·6100 for more Info 
www .nd.edu/~recsport 

TIAA-CREF provid~s financial solutions to last alifetime. 
Building your assets is one thing. Figuring out 
how those assets can provide you with a 
comfortable retirement is quite another. 
At TIAA-CREF, we can help you with both. You 
can count on us not only while you're saving and planning for retirement, but in retirement, too. 
Just call us. We'll show you how our flexible range of payout options can meet your retirement goals. 
With TIAA-CREF, you benefit from something few other companies can offer: atotal commitment to your financial well-being, today and tomorrow. 
*Note: Availability may depend on your employer's retirement 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
With TIAA-CREF, you can receive:* 
• Cash withdrawals 
:,:ts ·.· afree · ·.. 
,%•.•·•'·:.·•.:_(ca_·II· usSJfi.o... \•.·
__ '.'..·
+consultation ;
.•.,1;:; ....· 
___,..;:.,, ..,:<· 

• 
Systematic or fixed-period payments** 

• 
Interest-only payments 

• 
Lifetime income payments** 

• 
A combination of these 


.,Guaranteed by our claims-paying abilicy. 
i 26.70% 27.87% 26.60% I 
: 

11---1-Y_EA_R_--l~-5-YEA-RS---J-S-IN_C_E1-NC_E_PT_IO_N--f't 
AS OF 6/30/00 6/30/00 412 9/94 f, 
plan provisions contract. Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59½ may be subject to restrictions, and may also be CREF Growth is one of many CREF vnrinble nnnuicies,subject to a 10% additional tax. Additional restrictions also apply to the TIAA Traditional Annuity.  
Ensuring the future for those who shape it.5M  1 800.842.2776  
www. tiaa-cref. org  
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. 1. Due to current market volatility, our securities products' performance today may be less than shown above. The invest­ment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflects past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon r~emp­tion. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the (REF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Services. Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA<REF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust servic~s.  

5  E R  
.;.;.......;;;......;.i....-1  
A G T O  ..:::..&~..;.+:,;. ...:..L=-i....:...i..::..  T A T A N S  

Friday, September 8, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 39 
Visit The Observer on the web at http.1/observer.nd.edu/ 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
IN AN EfFORT TO MINIMIZE THE NEBrtASKA FAN THE UNIVERSITY GETS INVENTIVE ... 
Fox TROT 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 

WELL, THE GooD 
NEWS IS OUR 

SURROUND SoUNO SYSTEM WORl<S: 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
Should :C SIC.~ +he. d0<_3s on ham? 
I 

To cut down on the number of students sneaking into sections, ·the university has given ushers a license to kill. 
WHATELY 
Tho.t '.s t\Jnn4 . 
!10 u don'-t \ooW \iKe a So.l'\'l Wo."S · 
\ 
-~ 
,· 


HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Rod McKuen, Andre Agassi, 
Uma Thurman, Nora DWU1, Michelle 
Pfeiffer, Jerry Seinfeld 
Happy Birthday: Your ideas will be hot this year. The more you get involved in exciting projects, the bet­ter the chance of reaching your finan­cial goals. You will be able to take a position of leadership that will not only help you achieve the recognition you deserve, but also bring you the control that will help you move on to even greater objectives. Your num­bers: 2, 16, 24, 28, 35, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't jump to conclusions and take unnec­essary actions. Don't let business and emotional problems interfere with one another. You have to do the best you can and stop worrying so much. 
000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll end up doing more running about than you expected. You can open up doors through the connec­tions you make at the different desti­nations you visit. Don't be shy; say what you think. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Chil­dren will cost you if you give in to their demands. You have to learn to say no. Donations must not exceed your budget. You don't have to impress others. Just be yourself. 
00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your partner will be upset if you keep nag­ging. Be positive and helpful and you will accomplish a lot more. You need to work on yourself in order to improve your relationship. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take time out to rejuvenate. You can offer sup­port to a friend in need. Your intuitive insight will help you with your finan­cial choices. You need to follow your 
EUGENIA LAST 

own instincts. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can't do everything yourself. You've always put others before yourself and it's time to start taking care of your own needs first. Don't feel guilty; just doit.000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Ocl 22): You will attract individuals who are over­indulgent. Deception is apparent. It is best to back away from situations that are W1Stable or nonproductive. Focus on the positive and getting ahead. 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have a wonderful effect on oth­ers. Pursue competitive activities that will present a positive challenge for you. Your added discipline will give you the push you need to win. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
The uncertainties surrounding 'con­tracts or legal matters will drive you crazy. Sign any necessary papers quickly and wait. Expect to have some problems with institutional pro­cedures. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Your reluctance to let your partner in on your thoughts is causing suspi­cion. If you have nothing to hide, you must explain your secretive actions. You could end up alone if you don't. 
00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21)..Feb. 18): You may be getting bored with your job. Take a look around you and see if some other position might interest you. Talk to your boss; you may just get what you want. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't let fair-weather friends take advan­tage of your generosity. You shouldn't pay for their mistakes or their enter­tainment in order to keep them as friends. 000 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Dobbin's tow, 
perhaps s Action film highlight 
10 Paul Bunyan's 
ox 
t4 King of the road 1s Pass-the-baton race 1s Bolshevik 
Trotsky 11 River delta, e.g. 20 Easter egg 
need 21 Sole 22 Almost ready for 
the tooth fairy 23 Archeological 
sites 24 Go hurriedly 26 Easter event 29 Bed supports 30 [see other side] 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
A P A 

31 Visually teasing images 32 Circle ratios 35 Tour bus stop 39 Pull the plug on 40 "Move !" 41 Carpet store 
calculation 42 " ... only with _eyes" 
43 Walk with a cane.say 45 Part of A.T.M. 48 John Paul 11, e.g. 49 little hooter 50 Franklin D.'s mother s1 Wino 54 Summer time 58 Meat-stamp letters se Hostel visitor 
so Caffeine­yielding nut &1 Sullivan had a really big one s2 King with a golden touch 63 Widemouthed pitcher 
DOWN 
1 Herring kin 2 Smoke or order 
preceder 3 Up to the task 4 "_ rang?" s Shrink in fear & Makes well 1 Friend in need a Bummed out 9 Storm center 
10 Garden display 11 ''The Fox and the Grapes" storyteller 12 Gem State 
capital 1a "C'mon in!" 1a Word on a 
sample check 19 Nebraska river 23 Mend 24 Colorful talk 25 Golfer's 
transport 26 John Paul 11, e.g. 21 Mary Kay competitor 28 11m of 'WKRP in Cincinnati" 29 Coward's lack 
Puzzle by Arthur S. Verdesca 
a1  "Six  and  45  
halt a dozen ... "  46  
32  Fresh-mouthed  
aa  "That's clear"  47  
34  Lower-left  48  
36  phone button One of the  so  
Society Islands  
37  Ken or Lena of  


Hollywood  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle  
38  Judge  are available by touch-tone phone:  
42  It's often laid  1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).  
down  Annual subscriptions are available for the  
43  Sacred scrolls  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
44  Norwegian saint  years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  

_ operandi Inundated 
Bonnie's partner Ziti or spaghetti Dress shirt 
ornament 
s1 Pre-cable problem 52 Lecher's took 53 Old autocrat ss Workout spot 56 _polloi 57 Yegg's haul 





Set for success 
Kicking offa weekend against top-ranked national rivals, the Irish volleyball team faces Nebraska today. 
PORTS 
page 25 
• 
O
THE 

page 40 BSERVER Friday, September 8, 2000 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Surging Irish dig in for weekend of rematches 

By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports Writer 

Sometimes it's better the 
second time around. Opposing 
parti<'s know each other all too 
well. and memories of the first 
meeting are fresh in mind. 
It's a weekend of rematches for the Notre Dame women's soccer team as it prepares to entertain several of the nation's top teams in what promises to be a historic tour­nament featuring the pro­grams the have keyP.d soccer's rise in the public forum. 
Second-ranked Notrn Dame joins the third-ranked Santa Clara Broncos. the seventh­ranked Stanford Cardinal and the ninth-ranked Connecticut Huskies to complete one of the deepest (ields ever assembled for a regular season tourney. 
"I think without a doubt it's the strongest field ever assem­bled for a tournament outside of the NCAAs," said Irish head coach Randy Waldrum. "Adidas and Keybank did an incredible job bringing togeth­er four teams that have played a major role in the evolution of women's soccer over the past 10 years." 
The tournament is called the Keybank Classic, and this strength of this year's field could make the tournament just that. 
The 3-0 Irish will battle Friday night with a Broncos squad that has revenge on its mind. Santa Clara suffered a 1-0 defeat at the hands of Notre Dame in last year's NCAA semifinals. The loss 
ended tlrn Broncos 1rnrfoct sea­
son and cost them the national 
title that had almost alroady 
been conceded to them. 
That loss, however, will not be the only one the Broncos will seek to avenge. After racking up two easy wins to begin its season Santa Clara was stun ncd at home by Washington 2-1. The loss ended the Broncos· 45-matrh regular season win streak. 
Waldrum was not pl,msed to sec the Broncos lose. 
"I wish they wouldn't have Jost. Now a win is even more important to them. They have some extra motivation and they really didn 'l n«wd any after .last year." he said. 
Waldru·m realizes that his teams' upset win nearly a year ago will serve as motivation to the Broncos, but doesn't feel it will take on a life or its own. 
"I think any time two top teams play each other, they're going to try to beat each other up. They'll be /ired up as it is," Waldrum said. 
Similar to a Notre Dame team, which was hit hard by the graduation or an outstand­ing senior class, Santa Clara lost a great deal of talent from the squad that came ever so close to playing for the nation­al title. Graduation claimed All-Americans Mandy Clemens, Jacqui Little and Nikki Serlenguwho, all of whom were key players in last year's title run. The Broncos are also without Danielle Slaton who is playing in the Olympics for the U.S. National 
see SOCCER/page 31 

CROSS COUNTRY 
Runners enter season opener without leader Shay 
continued intense training the forefront for the Irish. As the first meet of' the year, the pre-national ment. That 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
throughout the summer, and "Being in the position of the Valparaiso meet will let means we need to race very Associar~ Spom Editor 
needs time to recuperate. being our top runner is some­the Irish know where they conservatively and movn up as "Hyan is still not 100 percent thing I look forward lo," stand. the race goes along." 
The Irish cross countrv from his summer training, and Watson said. "There's a little "The first meet is going to bn The women's cross country squads get their seasons unde~· then he had a sprained ankle," more pressure, yeah. But it's very interesting for us because team has all of' its runnPrs way today with the Valparaiso men's cross countrv coach Joe definitely an honor. It's a we graduated so many people healthy for the first meet of Invitational. minus the benefit Piane said. "lie had 15 months chance to be a little more in from last year," Watson said. the year, although it did lose of senior or intense training, and at the spotlight." "It's going to be a good indica­many athletes to graduation. A I I some point, that's going to Piane will run 14 guys in the tor for us." 'Tm going to watch our kids American come back and bite you." meet, which does not place a The Irish will follow a con­compete and see how well Hyan Shay. The presence of Shay, who limit on the number of servative race plan to help the they compete," women's cross 
Shav lin­will likely sit out the entire entrants. Competing against freshmen become accustomed country coach Tim Connelly ished· 10th season, wi!l be missed greatly Valparaiso, Western Michigan to the longer l 0,000-meter said. "I think we should be in the U.S. by the Irish. and Chicago State, Notre race distance at the collegn pretty solid. Tlrny've been Olympic ·"It's doubtful that he'll run Dame will be the favorite level. training very, very well." Trials in at all." Piane said. "You take a along with Western Michigan. "We have a lol of' young kids As with thn mnn's team, t h e guy out that's predicted to be "I'd like to say that we'll be and they need to get used to Western Michigan again 10,000-in the top five in the country, extra competitive with running at the college level," should be the touglrnst foe. meter run and I don't care who you Western," Piane said. "That's Piane said. "They can't race as "I don't know what Western this summer, the best perfor­replace him with. that's going the team that should challenge if they're doing a 5K. What we Michigan has. That would mance by a returning colle­to hurt you." us. We might have a little need to do up until the pre­probably be the main compcti­
,. gian. Duo to his participation Without Shay in the lineup, more up-front in Watson and national meet is race how in th,~ Olympic Trials, Shay junior Luke Watson steps to [Marc] Striowski. '' we're going to need to race at see RUNNERS/page 38 

ar Boston College

Volleyball vs. Santa Clara 
Saturday, I p.m,

vs. Nebraska Today, 7:30 p.m. 
Today, 4 p.m. ATA Cross Country Cross Country 
SPORTS 
vs. Nebraskaat Valparaiso Inv,Aquinas College Invite Saturday, 1:30 p.m. 

Saturday, 10 a.m.
Today

GLANCE • 

page 2 
gaine hype 

Grant Irons defensive end 
"/fwe have to play Nebraska, right now i.s the hesl time. Our confidence is high. Our kids are excited." 

Arnaz Battle quarterback 
"/ think everybody's going lo he really pumped up on Saturday.., 'This is like a 
National 

Championship 
r; ,.
gameJor us. 


Bob Davie Irish head coach 

"Ifwe go out there and give 1oo percent. all 11 guys on the field. then I think there ·s no stopping us.·· 

Joey Getherall flanker 


The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 8, 2000 
Irish look to restore program with win 
By BRIAN BURKE 
Sports Writer 

For all the hype that has surrounded this weekend's match up betweeu No. 1 Nebraska and No. 21 Notre Dame. the game means something differnnt for both teams. 
Nebraska comes in as one of the favorites to win it all, and this is game number two on potentially a 13­game journey to a national championship. 
For Notrn Dame, thH game presents an opportunity to quickly resl,orn respect to a program that has rnceived heavy scrutiny in the ofTsea­son. 
"This is one of' those opportunities where we can jump from here to there ... a Lig gap." Irish quarterback Arnaz Battlr said. "With them being No. 1, coming 
ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer 

inlo our own stadium, this 
Defensive tackle Anthony Weaver tackles an Aggie ball carrier in Notre Dame's win over
will be one of the biggest 
Texas A&M last week. The defense will have its work cut out with No. 1 Nebraska.
games this yHar. This is an 
opportunity we have to go out and prove ourselves to how much they allow Darrell Campbell, we proba­on 12 carries, hH also was a the country." Nebraska's offensive line to bly should have playod resp<1ctabl<i 10 or 16 for 133 
The Irish certainly are not push them around, morH, we have Lance yards through the air with used to being double digit Defensive tackles Andy Legree, Cedric (Hillard) two touchdowns. (13 1/2 points) underdogs at Wisne, Lance Legree and needs to play. We've got lie showed good touch on home, and the biggest rea­B.J. Scott will especially some depth in there," Davie a ball thrown to .Javin 
have their work cut out for said. "Defensive ends, I'm a Hunter for a 46-yard score
son for the huge spread could be the perceived mis­them lining up opposite first little more concerned. Ryan in the third quarter. match between Nebraska's team All-Big 12 right guard Roberts did some good Battle will, however, be offensive line and the defen­Huss Hochstein and second things. John Owens we forced to pass more often sive front for Notre Dame. team All-Big 12 center didn't play. So l'm a little Saturday than he was wag _ Dominic Raiola. more concerned about against Texas A&M.
Notre Dame played good 
run defen·se last weekend Head coach Bob Davie will defensive end. But Ryan Notre Dame cannot grind limiting Texas A&M to 94 use a platoon system for the Roberts was encouraging. If down Nebraska the way the defensive line to keep fresh we can keep those guys lluskers could grind down
yards rushing in a 24-10 
victory. legs on the field, in hopes healthy, we've got a the Irish. This week, however, the 
that the defense will not be chance." Battle nHeds to utilize the opponent has an offense completely worn down by Offensively, quarterback big play ability of Hunter, that rackHd up 505 yards on the fourth quarter. Arnaz Battle showed that he David Givens and .Joey 
"Andy Wisne didn't play could be multi-dimensional Getherall, who go up againstthe ground last weekend. 
Defensively Notre Dame's great in the [Texas A&MJ against THxas A&M. some new starters in the 
game, but hH played hard. While rushing for 50 yards Nebraska secondary.
fortunes will depend upon 

rtffim1tffi0~ 
@CD f1 [!il~ 0 rH 
rt mmui mill 1111 
[)ettJ-e/#'fl(f Tk!i-+-tRzza/ 
lifoted "BEST DELIVERED PIZZA" -2000 •••f at •1c1tlana 
r Ti.cuge':, , f'G"..-M7o~sm1Ai1 
I Topping I I I Large, 1 Topping I Papa Predicts: 
I $8.99 OR I I Breadsrtcks I 
2 Large, 2 2 Lite, ITopping $13.ool I $12.99 I NOTRE DAME -23
L ___.J L ___.J 
NEBRASKA -20 
Po~g:':'iS=I~ r ro:;;11y'Tpe~,, I I Lorge, 2 Topping I I I Lorge w/Wo1ks I 
Notre Dame Salnf ltla,y•
I and 4 Cans of I ' Large, 2 Topping I 
ICoca-Cola Classic I $17.99 or 271-1177 271-7272 $10.99 I IExtra Large $20.991
L ___.J L ___.J 
ltlonday-n.utwday 11 am • 1 am Friday-Saturday 11 am -3 am
r---, r---,
I Late Night Spec/a! I I Grand Papa I Sunday Noon -1 am 
\MfID!I ©~D@U 
WEEKI.¥ PIUZES! 
CIIWl611 t1'llf.RCOACU Iii IVl1F ilfflW.Tl!I> Ill' ,11\'l' ll'Ar lflTU fflE NC,IA on IVITl'M DAME Vl¥11'ER.'IITY, 


Friday, September 8, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Getherall plays as good as gold 
• Senior receiver seeks to return Notre Dame to national title hunt 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports FJitor 

Getherall 

For senior flanker Joey GcLherall, running through position:jlanker th11 tunnel in Notre Dame year: ,<;enior Stadium stands out as one of 
awards: ESPN Notre Dame 

his fondest memories. 
MVP vs. Tennessee in '99,

"My greatest personal ath­letic moment was running MVP ofCalifornia-Texas through that tunnel my fresh~ Shrine Game in high man year," Getherall said. school. 
Coming out of the tunnel for 
notables: Top returning

the first game ever played in 
receiver from '99, scored

the expanded Notre Dame Stadium, Getherall knew he first touchdown ofgame was in the big-time. The team against Texas A&M. march from the locker room to the field, tapping the "Play Like a Champion" sign on the 
momentum to stav in the 

way out, charging down the 
game and record a victory.

tunnrl and onto the field to 
"That was kind of a turning

the tune of the Notre Dame point in that game," Battle 
fight song, it was all part of said of Gctherall's catch. "He's 
thn tradition surrounding 
one of those game-breakers.

Notre Dame. 
He also does a great job on 

"The best thing about play­punt returns." 
ing for Notre Dame is getting Getherall's play helped spurto bo part of the tradition, the 
his teammates to action. 

great, rich tradition that it "He leads by example,"
has, with all the great players 
junior receiver Javin Hunter that have played here ­

said. "He makes plays, and I 

Knute Rockne, the Lujacks, think that spreads throughout
tlw Tim Browns, the Rockets," the rest of the team." 
Getherall said. "All those great 
The upset victory over the players. .I ust to be a part of Aggies lit the lrish on fire and 
that tradition, in that catego­sent their confidence soaring. 
ry, it's a great thing." 
For Getherall, beating a 

A veteran starter. Getherall 
ranked opponent like the 

has become entrenched in the Aggies was the best possible
Notre Dame tradition. The top thing for the Irish squad.
returning receiver for the Irish 
"We played a great team 

scored five touchdowns a sea­who had a lot of talent, and I son ago, despite missing two think playing a team like that 
games because of an injury. 
shows what we're capable of 

He also returned five punts and that we can play some 
and four kickoffs in 1999. 
big-time teams," Getherall 

Getherall frequently makes said. "Winning against a top­the big plays that mean the caliber team like Texas A&M 
difference between winning 
can help boost our confidence and losing. Against A&M, he a lot." 

caught just one pass, but it Confidence in their own 
was the opening Irish touch­ability is something the Irish down. Last year, he snagged 
need as they prepare for a 

the longest reception of any 
grudge match with No. 1 Irish player -a 58-yarder 

Nebraska Saturday, a football that pulled Notre Dame within program with nearly as much 

two points of Oklahoma in as Notre
history Dame's. 

Notre Dame's come-from­
Getherall is ready for the chal­behind victory. 

lenge of facing the nation's 

Yet the 5-foot-7, 175-pound 
top-ranked team, and believes athlete doesn't think his fear­

the rest of the team is as well. 

less play is "I think 
anything 
everybody's

special. 
"He {Getherall] is a going to be 
" A n y 
really pumped

leader on this team. For
chance I can 
up on 

make a play, a little guy, he plays 
Saturday,"

I just go out 
with big heart." Getherall 
there and said. "The 
make a play. 
main goal for 

I'll do any­Arnaz Battle 
everyone is to thing I can to 

quarterback go out there 

help the 
and win every

team win." 
game and getGPtheraJJ said. 

that National Championship.

That attitude paid off in 
"I think we have a lot of' tal­

Notre Dame's season-opening ent on this team," Getherall 
win over Texas A&M, as 
continuod. "I have a lot of con­

Gotlrnrall notchod the team's 
fidence in Arnaz [Battle! and first touchdown. a nine-yard what he's capable of this sea­
pass l'rorn quartorback Arnaz 
son. It's all riding on his 

Battin. Getherall's catch got 
shouldrrs and I thi.nk ho's 

the Irish going, tying the game 
capable of carrying it." 

at 7-7 and giving them the Getherall will be there to 

share the load with Battle. With the potential to make big plays and the charisma to keep the team together, Getherall plays a crucial role in the Irish offense. For Battle, a pass to Getherall is a sure thing. 
"He's one of those guys that I can count on," Battle said. "He's helped me out a lot in just keeping me focused. He's one of those guys who keep the offense together. 
"He's a leader on this team. For a little guy, he plays with a big heart," Battle continued. "I could go on and on. He's always giving 100 percent. He leads by his leadership and his effort and his example." 
Not only does Getherall pro­vide leadership and help to his tnammates, he goes out into the community to share a little of his lion-sized heart. Despite his busy schedule, Gdhcrall volunteers with mentally handicapped children, taking them bowling. 
"I just feel like anything showing them that you have interest in them gives them a positive and helps them out," Getherall said. "I think it's God's will. God said that you help others, do unto others as you would have them do unto you." 
The significance placed on God in life at Notre Dame helped Getherall pick Notre Dame over other schools like USC. 
"I was more of a USC fan growing up. My dad graduated from USC," Getherall said. "I think just Notre Dame show­ing a lot of interest and it being a Catholic college, I just fell in love with the school. I have no love for USC any­more." 
The southern California native is the youngest of three in an athletic family. His sis­ters, Tina and Anna, both earned full ride scholarships to play softball in college, Tina at Florida State and Anna at Cal State Northridge. Growing up, Getherall played not only football, but baseball, basket­ball and soccer as well. But in the end he stuck to football 
In his final year of eligibility 
playing football at Notre Dame, the dauntless receiver doesn't plan on letting any­thing get in his way, certainly not fear. 
"I think everybody has a lit­tle fear in them, but I'm not going to pass up an opportuni­ty to catch a pass or run the ball," Getherall, who is known for attacking his defenders straight on, said. "Senior year, it's my last go-around. I've got to do all I can." 
Getherall isn't holding back and isn't taking anything for granted about his short time remaining in the shadow of the Dome. 
Especially not the run through the tunnel before the start of each game. 
"I guess I took it for granted at the end of my freshman year and my sophomore year," Getherall said. ''But last year at the end of the year, and especially this year, J really thought about it, and now I'm not taking it for granted. It's my last year. and I'm not tak­ing anything for granted right now." 
birthdate: Nov. 7, 1978 field: relaxed Notre Dame tradition hometown: llacienda Heights. area he would like to improve most prized possession: his
up close & 
Calif. most as a player is: everything family major: marketing greatest personal athletic top three teams in college dimensions: 5-foot-7, 175 lbs. moment: running through the football this year : Notre Dame, 
personal 
word to describe him on the tunnelfreshman year Florida State, Nebraska field: fearless best part about playing for Notre goal for the season: to win the 
WITH JOEY GETHERALL 
word to describe him off the Dame: being part ofthe great National Championship 

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 8, 2000 
Fighting Irish schedule 
Sep. 2 TEXAS A&M W Sep.9 N Sep UE 


at~-·-. State 
S~RD 
Oct 21 · 
~.a,:~~ ~inia 
Oct 28 AIR FORCE Nov. 11 BOSTON COLLEGE Nov. 18 at Rutgers Nov. 25 at USC 

fourth season at Notre Dame 
career record: 
22-16 
at Notre Dame: 
22-16 

against Nebraska: 
o-o 

Roster 
No­ N<lme  Pos.  Ht.  
l  Brt1ck Williams  CB  5-10  
2  C.irlo• rierre-Antoine 11.B  6-3  
2  l)an N<>vakov  QB  6-1  
3  Arnaz Battle  QB  6-1  
5  Ron Israel  SS  o-0  
f,  David Givens  FL  6-3  
7  Carlyle Holiday  QB  6-2  
Lorenzo Crawford  WR  5-11  
9  Jared Clark  Qll  6-4  
10  Matt LnVt'Cchio  QB  6-3  
10  Ryan Kru,•11,•r  QB  5-9  
11  Jay jc,hnson  SE  5-11  
12  Tllny fisher  TB  fi-2  
13  Nick Sctta  K/P  6-0  
13  Jul' Rl'cenMz  QB/TE  6-0  
14  Gary God"'y  QB  6-7  
15  Cluford Jcfkr>0n  CB  5-9  
16  A~ram Elam  Qll/DB 6-1  
17  J0t>y Hildbold  P  5-10  
18  Joey Geth,•rall  FL  5-7  
19  Glenn Earl  SS  6-2  
20  Gerom,• Sapp  FS  6-()  
21  lavln Hunter  SE  o-0  
22  Julius Jones  TB  5-IO  
23  Chris Yura  FB  5-11  
24  Chad lMlolt  CB  5-10  
25  Tony Driver  FS  6-2  
26  Garron Bible  RB  5-10  
27  Jason Beckstrnm  CB  5-10  
28  [){maid Dykes  SS  5-11  
29  Justin Smith  FS  5-11  
29  Brian Olenkzak  Fl  5-1 l  
30  Rrn:ky Boiman  01.B  l>-4  
31  Dwayne Frnnds  CB  l>-0  
3l  Terrance Howard  TB  b-l  
33  Courtney Wahmn  [LB  6-1  
34  Vontez Duff  RB  6-1  
34  JasdntVukl'lich  FB  5-10  
35  David Mill,•r  K  5-11  
35  Tim O'Neill  TB  5-5  
31,  Tom I ,tlpicnski  FB  b--1  
3ll  l'rrston Jackson  DB  5-10  
:IB  Eric N,•ls,m  LB  6-0  
39  Anthony D,·nman  11.B  6-2  
4tl  Jason Murray  Fil  6-1  
41  Mike Goolsby  LB  6-4  
42  Shane W a il<Jn  CB  5-JI  
41  Anthony Brannan  !LB  5-10  
,14  Grant Irons  DE  6-5  
45  Matt Sarb  SS  5-11  
4h  Jcrl'my Juarez  F8  5-1 l  
47  Mike McNair  f'B  6-0  
4K  Kylt• Budinscak  OL  o-5  
49  Derek Curry  I.B  1,-4  
50  Cedric Hilliard  OT  6-2  
51  Tyreo Harrison  11.B  l'>-2  
52  Jt•/f l'aine  C  6-3  
52  M,irl< Mill:hl'll  OLB  5-10  
53  J.1son 1-fa)vnrson  l.B  6-2  
~4  Luigi Rao  if.II  5-10  
55  Jim Jon,,,  OG  6-2  
St,  P,,t Ryan  11.8  6-3  
57  Justin Thomas  OLB  6-1  
58  Jos,,ph Mlll'ller  LB  5-11  
59  !Jri,m Dicrckman  ILB  6-1  
60  D,mdl Campbell  DE  6-4  
61  Mike Zdcoka  FB  6-{)  
62  Ca""y Robin  OT  o-7  
63  Brmnan Curtin  OT  o-R  
t,4  John Crnwther  C  6-2  
65  Sean Milli~an  0G  6-4  
t,&  JW Jordan  C  f>.l  
t,7  Ryan Gillis  0G  f>.3  
t,t)  Mike Gandy  OG  6--4  
70  Jim Molinaro  DE  H  
72  Rv•n &,,nila  (JG  6-5  
71  Ad•rn ribbJ,,  K  5-11  
75  Kurt Vol lers  OT  6-7  
71,  John T1•a,.,!.,Jc  OT  6-5  
77  (;r<'K Pauly  DL  o-6  
78  Jnrdan Bla<k  OT  6-6  
74  S4.•,in Mdhun  or  6-3  
Kn  t )m.u ,cnk.im,  WR  6-2  
Kl  ft•mmt• Collin~  WR  ft-.1  
K2  l~nnnit• Rl'd,,mer  WR  'b--1­ 
H2  ilt•rn,ird A k,lht  SE  5-10  
K3  J"sh Gentfl,,  K/1'  5-11  
11.j  John l'lw,'Tls  f)F  6-~  
M,:i  l<'ifr,•y Camrbell  TE/OE  1>-T  
Rh  D,m O'Leary  TE  6-1  
H7  j,1hari 11,,!l.,way  TE  6-:1  
C,,r<1ld Mnr1,,m  TE  6--!  
Lrnn• LL•~rt•t·  NC  6-1  
Andrew Dempsey  DE  6-2  
M,,tt M,NC\\  K  6-3  
B.J. Scott  DT  6-3  
Andy W<Snl'  OT  t>-3  
Ryiln R\)hL·rb  DF  6-2  
!lilly l'.1Jni,•r  fE  6-3  
Anthony W,·,1wr  DI  6-3  
la.,on Sapp  Ul  6-J  

Wt. 
190 
Z42 
220 218 208 217 
190 
175 220 200 178 195 
225 
175 222 
240 
180 190 190 175 215 210 18b 201 211 193 
220 
185 190 195 193 195 240 195 195 220 175 229 
191 
170 
245 
172 225 235 259 225 183 215 275 201 251 
240 
250 225 290 242 292 220 230 215 
310 
2.15 245 195 255 285 225 305 315 240 295 275 292 315 
265 )01 
2111 310 JOS 275 
310 2R8 
IRO 20(] 1115 
IRII 
lll\l 265 200 260 260 261 285 265 200 
290 272 
251 250 276 230 

IN POSITION: tailbacks 

Observer Staff Report 

The Irish running game stems from the balanced attack of tailbacks Julius Jones, Tony Fisher and Terrance Howard. Coach Bob Davie rotates the sophomore and two juniors. In Notre Dame's victory over Texas A&M, Jones tallied 14 carries for 60 yards, Fisher put in 10 carries for 50 yards and 


LEFT TACKLE 
58-Volk 76-loos 
WS RIGHT TACKLE
12-llewcombe 
16-Sthwab 

N~S£0 _,;, ­
f£w 
: ·" ~ 
WL8 

Howard added seven carries for 29 yards. 
All three will need to step up the yardage Saturday for the Irish to knock off the 'Huskers. And although Nebraska is the No. 1 team in the nation, that might not be out of the question, with a defense depleted by graduation and injuries. The key will be mixing the carries up among the three offensive threats. 
SPLITEND 3-Davlson 
9-Thamas 
COANERBACK 
42-Walton 
15-Jefferson 
OLB 

30-Bolman ~•Denman 
RIGHTEND 
44•lron• 
84-0w,ms 
/f 
t:~_J 

1 
39·Denm•n 


33-Watson 
87-Wlalfom 
CORNERBACK,, ,
99-Goll,oay 
1-Willlamt i1-ll0c11~wom 

Husker schedule 
Sep. 2 SAN JOSE STATE W 
Sep. 9 at Notre Dame 
Sep.23 IOWA 
Sep. 30 MISSOURI 
Oct. 7 at IQWa .State 
Oct. 14 at Texas·Tkh 
Oct.21 BAYLOR 
Oct. 28 at Oklahoma Nov. 4 KANSAS 
Nov. 11 at Kansas State 
Nov. 24 COLORADO 

third season at Nebraska 
career record: 
22-5 
at Nebraska: 
22-5 
against Notre Dame: o-o 
Roster 

No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  Thunder Collins  rn  6-2  200  so  
l  Taylor Gehman  ROV  5-11  190  so  
2  Mike Demps  ROV  5-10  200  so  
3  Matt Davison  SE  6-1  185  SR  
3  Keyuo Craver  LCB  5-10  190  JR  
4  Terrell Butler  LCB  5-11  185  FR  
4  Judd Davies  FB  6-0  245  FR  
5  De) uan Groce  RCB  5-10  190  so  
6  DeAntae Grixby  1B  5-8  200  FR  
7  Eric Crouch  QB  6-1  205  JR  
8  John Gib,;on  WB  6-0  185  SR  
8  Aaron Terpening  ROV  5-11  185  SR  
9  Wilson Thomas  SE  6-5  200  so  
10  Chace Long  PK  o-1  205  SR  
10  Jammal Lord  QB  6-2  210  FR  
11  Joe Chrisman  QB  5-11  190  so  
12  Bobby Newcombe  WB  6-0  195  SR  
13  Carlos Polk  MLB  6-2  250  SR  
14  Dion Booker  FS  6-1  205  JR  
14  Brett Lindstrom  QB  6-0  185  FR  
15  Willie Miller  FB  6-1  250  SR  
16  Erwin Swiney  RCB  6-0  185  JR  
17  Dan Hadenfolt  P  5-11  195  SR  
18  Jeff Hemje  LCB  6-0  180  JR  
19  Clint Finley  FS/ROV 6-0  200  SR  
20  Tom Beveridge  SE  6-0  190  SR  
21  Robin Miller  1B  5-ll  225  FR  
22  Don Neal  RCB  5-6  155  FR  
-23  Blanchard Johnson  WLB  5-11  205  FR  
24  Matt Ickes  RCB  5-10  200  JR  
25  Joe Walker  ROV  5-10  195  SR  
26  Josh Brown  PK  6-2  185  so  
27  Andy Wingender  FB  5-10  240  FR  
28  Josh Anderson  RCB  5-8  175  SR  
29  Jay White  LCB  5-9  180  so  
30  Dahrran Diedrick  1B  6-0  220  so  
32  Matt Albertson  1B  5-10  195  so  
33  Dwayne McClary  LCB  5-10  190  SR  
34  Randy Stella  WLB  6-0  205  JR  
35  Curt Tomasevicz  FB  6-0  215  FR  
36  Correll Buckhalter  1B  6-0  225  SR  
37  Tim Demerath  ROV  6-1  205  JR  
38  Dan Alex~mil'r  rn  1,-0  245  SR  
40  Luke Smith  MLB  6-1  240  so  
41  Rod Baker  SLB  6-0  240  SR  
42  Troy Watchorn  FS  5-11  200  SR  
43  Scott Shanie  SLB  6-2  230  so  
44  Paul Kastl  FB  5-10  225  so  
46  Tv Dilts  RRE  6-1  250  so  
47  Shaun Coleman  MLB  6-4  240  FR  
48  Jamie Burrow  MLB  6-1  245  JR  
49  Brad Bryan  SLB  o-1  215  FR  
50  Steve Safranak  MLB  6-1  230  FR  
51  Anthony Hoke  SLB  6-0  200  FR  
52  Jon Coyne  MLB  6-4  220  JR  
53  Gabe Fries  SLB  6-2  230  so  
54  Dominic Raiola  C  6-2  300  JR  
54  Mike Makris  MLB  5-11  240  FR  
55  Jon Clanton  NT  6-2  285  so  
56  Jeremy Slechta  OT  6-6  290  JR  
57  Chris Kelsay  LRE  6-5  275  so  
58  Dave Volk  OT  6-5  310  JR  
59  Ryon Bingham  NT  6-3  275  FR  
59  Wes Cody  0G  6-2  290  so  
62  Andy Gwcnnap  0G  6-2  290  so  
63  Brian Nelson  0G  6-3  305  FR  
64  Steve Aftstadt  0G  6-5  295  JR  
65  Jason Schwab  OT  6-1  300  SR  
66  Jon Rutherford  0G  6-3  300  JR  
67  Nate Kolterman  OT  6-3  315  so  
68  D•n Waldrop  OT  6-5  335  FR  
69  Brian Ha le  0G  6-4  300  FR  
70  Ja,on Lohr  NT  6-2  280  JR  
71  Matt McGinn  DT  6-2  290  JR  
72  Tim Green  OT  6-4  320  FR  
73  Scott Kuetllc  OT  6-5  325  so  
74  llavid Kotowski  C  6-5  290  SU  
7<;  Kyle Kollmorgen  OT  o-5  300  JR  
76  Dan Swantek  0G  6-0  285  FR  
77  Toniu Fonoti  0G  6-4  330  f,O  
78  Phil Peetz  LRc  t,-2  255  FR  
79  Stephen Manning  DT  6-1  255  FR.  
81  Mat! Plo,,stcr  WB  5-10  205  FR  
82  Trevor Johnson  TE  o-4  245  FR  
83  Kyle Vandcn Bosch  RRE  1,-4  270  SR  
84  Jon Bowling  TE  o-3  240  so  
86  Ben ComelsPn  Wll  5-10  180  50  
87  Casev Nelson  NT  6-1  285  JR  
87  Trac~y Wistmm  TE  6-5  220  JR  
89  Troy Hassebmek  WB  6-4  220  so  
90  Jake McKee  TE  6-2  235  SR  
91  Loran Kaiser  DT  6-4  295  SR  
92  Justin Smith  LRE  6-4  255  so  
93  llrandon Mooberry  RRF  6-5  245  SR  
94  Patrick Kabongo ·  DT  6-6  320  rn  
95  J.P. Wichmann  RRF  6-4  240  JI!  
96  Junior Tagna'i  NT  6-2  300  rn  
97  Matt Grnmnll'rt  RRE  6-2  240  SR  
98  Dcrnoine Adam~  LRE  6,-2  2.15  so  
99  Aaron Gollid<1y  TE  6-4  275  so  

YR 
SR 
JR 
so JR SR 
JR 
FR 
m 
FR 
FR 
JR 
rR 
JR 
so 
SR 
so 
JR 
FR 
so 
SR 
so 
FR 
JR 
so 
so 
so SR 
FR 
so 
JR SR SR 
JR 
JR 
JR 
so 
FR SR JR JR JR FR JR SR SR 
FR 
JR 
SR SR 
JR SR JR FR FR 
so 
JR 
so 
SR 
so 
SR 
SR 
so so SR SR 
so 
SR SR so 
JR 
so 
SR 
so 
SR 
so 
JR JR 
SR SR 
FR JR JI! FR FR FR JR 
so JR JR 
SR SR JR 
SR SR SR SR SR JR FR JI( 
rn 


Friday, September 8, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
EYE ON THE ENEMY 
Huskers prepare to make Irish see red 
By KERRY SMITH Spom Editor 
Whcll the Cornhuskers parade into South Bt>nd this weekt>nd. they will have one goal -to make Lhe Irish sec rnd. 
With tens of thousands of fans clad in Nebraska apparel preparing to crash I.ht> scene, the Irish can hank on sePing red in Lhe stands, bul lhe No. 1 I luskcrs will not settle for just that -they want the Irish to see red on the scoreboard. too. 
Meeting that challenge is some­Lhing Irish head coach Bob Davie and his No. 23 squad am ready for. 
"f like our team. I think we're bet­ter." said Davie. "We're going to have to be a lot better than we wert' last week. I think everybody secs that becauso we are playing against a bet­ter football team than we played against last week." 
The Irish will have to buckle down and get to work if they plan on unseating the most dangerous team in college football Saturday. 
Nebraska enters Nutre Dame Stadium looking for its second win of the season, af'Ler rolling over unranked San Jose State 49-13 in ilS home opener last weekend. 
Husker quarterback Eric Crouch came out firing, leading his team to four scores on its first four posses­sion&. With three rushing am! one passing touchdown, Crouch and com­pany proved they can run the gamut of plays on offense. 
"You look at them on offense ­they're probably as good illl offensive team as I've coached against," said Davie. "It's kind of like when you play a basketball team and they might have a night where they don't shoot it well and you can Lake advantage of that -that's the way it is with a passing team when sometimes they just misfire. But with [the Huskers], the way they block you is not going to change. That's why they are so con­sistent and ""in so consistently." 
Joining Crouch in the Nebraska oflensive arsenal is running back Dan Alexander. Alexander ran for a career-high 208 of Nebraska's 505 total rushing yards last weekend. Leading the NCAA, he averaged 12.2 yards a carry and reached the end zone twict" against San Jose State. 
Middle linebacker Carlos Polk headlines a stingy defensive corps. Polk led the Huskers last week with six tackles, one preventing a San Jose State touchdown at the goal line and a blocked PAT. 
"Nebraska has led the country in rushing defense over the last several years," said Davie. "Watching them last year against running football teams, tlieir scheme and their tech­niques and everything is very impres­sive." 

Even though Nebraska comes in with the top ranking, its game was not perfect in its opener. Crouch 1hrew for two interceptions while the Husker defense allowed two passing touchdowns. But Davie is cautious about pointing out weakness in ~ebraska's game plan. 
"I don't know if we can exploit fthP.ir passing defense]." he said. "There's an awful lot of people that tried to, on running downs, launch the ball down the field to try to get one-on-one coverage, which you mm­ally get, but last year. it was usually 2nd and 10 after you tried to do Lhat." 
For all the hype associated with Saturday's match-up, Davie knows his team needs to focus. 
"I think there will be some juice and I think there will be some elec­tricity in that stadium," said Davie. "When it comes to blocking people, it doesn't have much to do with a lot of noise and a lot of wind blowing or anything. It comes down to guys play­ing and giving off blocks." 
Those fundamentals will be key when both teams take the field Saturday in determining which squad leaves with a win and which leaves seeing red. 

. Location: Lincoln, Neb. . Notre Dame ranks second (768) and
fast facts 
. 
Enrollment: 25;000 Nebraska third (744) on the all-time victo­

. 
Colors: Scarlet and cream ries list.


ABOUT 
. 
Nickname: Cornhuskers . Notre Dame has 11 national titles, ALLSPORT Nebraska running back Dan Alexander rushed for a

. 
Conference: Big 12 while Nebraska has eight.


NEBRASKA 
career-best 208 yards against San Jose State. 


2ND IIARGE PIZZA 7.99

Cheese & I Toppl¦g; ..,,, ,o,,-.,.. 0.1, s1.so 
No Coupon Necessary. Plws DeHvery & Tax Where Applicable. Nol Valid With Any Other Oller. Umlled Time lfler. 
54533 terrace Ln. 
(Eost of Ironwood} 

_____ ....L ! ________I I 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 6 A LOOK AT THIS WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION Priday, September 8, 2000 
AP poll 

leam  record  poiflls  
1  Nebraska  1-0  1,736  
2  Florida State  1·0  1,725  
3  Michigan  1·0  1,513  
4  Miami (Fla.)  1-0  1,493  
5  Wisconsin  1-0  1,391  
6  Texas  0-0  1,345  
7  Kansas State  2·0  1,334  
8  Florida  1-0  1,263  
9  Georgia  1·0  1,245  
10  Virginia Tech  1-0  1,119  
11  Southern California  1·0  964  
12  Tennessee  1·0  901  
13  Alabama  0-1  824  
14  Purdue  1-0  805  
15  Washington  1-0  773  
16  UCLA  1·0  766  
17  Clemson  1-0  612  
18  Ohio State  1-0  591  
19  Mississippi  1·0  528  
20  Oklahoma  1-0  487  
21  Illinois  1·0  398  
22  Texas Christian  0-0  354  
23  Notre Dame  1-0  166  
24  Michigan Slate  0-0  150  
25  Southern Mississippi  0-1  125  

ESPN/USA Today poll 
team record points 
1 Nebraska 1-0 1,456 2 Florida State 1-0 1,422 3 Michigan 1-0 1,303 
4 Miami ffla.) 1-0 1,205 5 Florida 1·0 1,175 6 Wisconsin 1-0 1,131 7 Kansas Slate 2·0 1,037 8 Texas 0-0 1,036 9 Virginia Tech 1-0 1,022 10 Georgia 1-0 901 11 Tennessee 1-0 822 12 Southern California 1-0 746 13 Purdue 1-0 719 14 Alabama 0-1 668 15 Washington 1-0 631 16 Ohio State 1-0 627 17 UCLA 1-0 491 18 Mississippi 1-0 458 19 Clemson 1-0 425 20 Oklahoma 1·0 355 21 Illinois 1-0 327 22 Texas Christian 0·0 234 23 Michigan State 0-0 232 24 Southern Mississippi 0·1 117 25 Notre Dame 1-0 115 
Observer experts 
NOTRE DAME WASHINGTON GEORGIA 
USC 
Season Record 
2-2 
NOTHE DAME MIAMI GEOHGIA 
USC 
Season Record 
2-2 
NEBltASKA MIAMI GHOHGIA 
USC 
Season Record 
2-2 




GAME OF THE WEEK 

By PEYTON BERG Sports Writer 
Last year, the Miami Hurricanes were poised to rejoin the nation's elite until they were derailed by an early season loss to Penn State and a young, unknown freshman quar­terback named Michael Vick. 
Coach Butch Davis hopes to avoid history repeating itself when Miami travels to Seattle for a date with the lluskies. 
The 'Canes dominated 
the 1980s and early 1990s, then fell on hard times. 
Coach Davis was hand­ed the arduous task of rebuilding what was once the most arrogant, confi­dent and brash dynasty in college football. 
Fortunately, the state of Florida is the nation's best football recruiting ground. 
Wide receiver/kick returner Santana Moss and linebacker Dan Morgan both possess great speed and big play potential. 
NCAA penalties signifi­cantly reduced Miami's scholarship numbers. Davis struggled early because he was forced to play many freshmen and sophomores prematurely. 
The good news is that these underclassmen are now seasoned veterans focused on returning Miami to greatness. 
IJavis augmented this core of' players with three solid recruiting classes, and the 'Canes arc hun­gry again. 
Home games loom against Florida State and Virginia Tech before this team can entertain BCS 
OTHER TOP GAMES 
South Carolina al Georgia: Coach Lou lloltz's Gamecocks are riding a one­game winning streak, which hasn't hap· pcned in Columbia since 1998. 
Th(i South Carolina offense scored a grand total of eight touchdowns last year, and must improve before travelling to Athens to face a talr.nted Bulldog team. 
Georgia quarterback Quincy Carter continues to improwi. Cart1ff has a bevy of capable widr receivers and running backs to sham the offensive load, and (;eorgia should contnnd for the SEC Championship. 
Both Bulldog offonsive tackles from last year have graduated to the NFL, but this is not. (;,iorgia 's biggest problem. Coach .lim Donnan must lind a way to make his players believe that they can beat Tnnnessnn and Florida. 
Donnan is a combined 1-7, and the 'Dawg faithful arc growing impaiiPnt. 
Colorado at USC: Colorado tripped out or the gate last weekend, losing to Colorado State for the second straight year. 
Givnn the Buffaloes' impossible 2000 schedule, there isn't much time to regroup. 
Penn State discovered th<' hard way that USC's del'ensn is solid against both the run and the pass. 
Defensive linemen Ennis Davis and Sultan Abdul-Malik form a formidable tandem, and senior Znkn Moreno h\ads an experiencnd, hard-hitting linebacking unit. 
OITnnsively, quarterback Carson Palmer rnturns from a broken collar­bone. This leaves coach Paul Hackett in thn Pnviable position of' having two expe­rienced quarterbacks on the depth chart. llackett must rnplaco All-Pac 10 receivPr n. Jay Soward, hut sophomorn Kareem Kelly is ready to step up. 
consideration. 
After four unimpressive years at Colorado, Washington made Hick Neuheisel the second highest-paid coach in col­lege football behind Florida's Stcwe Spurrier. 
He delivered a promis­ing 7-5 season a year ago. and discovered a talented quarterback in senior Marques Tuiasosopo along the way. 
Tuiasosopo threw for 300 yards and ran for 200 in a single gimrn last year, and is one of the top quarterbacks in the coun­try. 
around the dial 
Marshall at Michigan Slate 
noon. ESPN 
Syracuse at Cincinnati 
2:30 p.m., FOXSN 
Oregon at Wisconsin 
2:30 p.m.• AHC 
Georgia at South Carolina 
:J::JO p.m., h:S'J'N2 
Colorado at use 
7 p.m.. /\BC 
Auburn at Mississippi 
7 p.m. ES'PN2 

Friday, September 8, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
quarterbacks: Hoth quar­offensive line: Huge edge special teams: terbacks can run, but for Nebraska. Notre Hadenfeldt is among
the inside 
Crouch is jar more Dame's 0-line is the top punters in the experirmc,,d. Plus, improved. Nebraska's nation, ditto Jor Crouch will not need might be the best in the Newcombe on returns.
edge 
throw as well as Battle. last 2.0 years. Irish are still uuproven. 


running backs: The Irish defensive line: Vanden coaching: Solich has 
records: r-o 
boast three talented Brosch leads a formida­been in the Nebraska Overall
A.P. rank: No. 23 EVEN tailbacks, but the ble front for Nebraska. program for 22 years, Nebraska is rankedcoach's poll: No. 25 'Huskers' 4lexander Irish need big games and is coming offa 1 2 No. 1 for good reason.
could run wild in the from Irons and Weaver. win season. Uariie is Whether or not Notre
Nebraska offense. 22-16 at Notre Dame. records: 1-0 Dame is in the game 
A.P. rank: No. I receivers: l'\febraska's linebackers: More depth intangibles: Notre Dame will depend partly on 
coach's poll: No. 1 
receivers fit the system and a potentialfirst has nothing to lose and the 'Huskers. If they they run, and team All /2merican in is playing orl their turn the ball over Newcombe is danger­Polk give Nebraska the home.field. Nebraska 
at opportune times,

Series Record 
ous. The Irish have edge. can only go down from 
the Irish have aNotre Dame leads more big play threats. No. r. 

chance. ifthe 'lluskers

Nebraska 7-6-1 
play well, it could gel
secondary: The Irish still 
ugly. The Irish need to

have coverage issues, especially on third play error-free ball 
down. Nebra!ika 's and leave their hearts Craver is a solid cor­
on the field. 
ner. 


IRISH EXCHANGE 
Sports Illustrated, ESPN GameDay incite fans' reactions 
Thirty-four years later, the UPI photo­viewers, the power of ESPN and their graph remains hanging on a wall at Dan talent and cohesion, Herbstreit and Jenkins' house in Texas. Corso have become a staple of college 
Following the famous 10-10 tie football. between No. 1 Notre Dame and No. 2 When they make predictions, people Michigan State on listen. Some cheer. many more boo. Nov.19.1966, But they always watch. Just like the Jenkins, the great older Domers would read Jenkins. Sports Illustrated The last time GameDay came to South scribe, sat staring Bend was on Sept. 5, 1998 for the Notre at his type½Titer Dame-Michigan opening season game. with a cigarette As their pre-game show ended, both dangling between analysts predicted a Michigan win. After his lips. the Irish upset the defending national 
llis memorable champions 36-20, fanatical fans piece began: 'Old returned for some hazing. Notre Dame will tie "There were probably 10,000 people over all. Sing it out, around the set after the game," guys. That is not Herbstreit said on Wednesday. "They exactly what the were all chanting, 'Say you're sorry, Say march says, of you're sorry.' It was a great scene." course. but that is Herbstreit expec1s the same on how the big game Saturday. ends every time you replay it. And that is "If both of us pick against Notre Dame how millions of cranky college football and they win, we'll be the goat," said fans will remember it." Herbstreit, a former Ohio State quarter­
When the SI cover story came out, back who graduated in 1993. "And if Notre Dame students congregated the both of us pick against Notre Dame and next weekend and bought over 1,200 they lose, we'll still be the goat. It's copies of the magazine. And. like the funny how fans take our predictions a civil, classy, Catholic young men Notre littl~. bit too personal. But it's all in good Dame so prides itself on, the students fun. burned every copy. Noone knows that better than Jenkins. 
"It still amuses me to look at it," As the main college football ½Titer for SI. Jenkins said of the photo on Tuesday. Jenkins visited many schools, from Ann "Why did I write it the way I did? Arbor to Alabama. Because I kept thinking of that old Notre But Notre Dame remains special for Dame battle cry of, 'We never lose a the 70-year old writer. game, we just run out of time.' So there "College football wouldn't be the same was Ara IParseghian] at the end, run­without l\otre Dame," Jenkins said. "No ning out the time. It was very un-Notrc other place has a history to match it, or Damcish. such atmosphere. 
"Over the years, I've written many "The press should never forget that glo"ving things about Notre Dame, but Notre Dame invented the press box hot I'll never live that one down, accusing dog, the flipcard, the press parking the Irish of tying one for the Gipper." space. It goes back to Rockne. He court­
A stadium expansion, addition of ed the New York press and the power women, new bookstore. rejuvenat0d and charm ol'the school has only Main Building. "Hudy", four national grow11." championships, six ties, 102 losses and That atmosphere should be revisited 276 victories since that chilly day in East this weekend. The pep rally has been Lansing. another Dig Game involving the moved to the Stadium, tickclc:; arc being frish takes place on Saturday. scalpnd !'or thousands, unauthorized T­
This is not "The Game of the Ccnturv", shirts are plentiful and Nebraska fans as the 1966 clash was referred to, or · have rented the College Football Hall of evnn among tlrn top games in Notre Fame on Saturday. Dame history. And, like Jenkins before them, the 
But because it's the program of the GameDay crew will only add to the hype centurv versus the team of the last two surrounding this anticipated affair. decad~s in the mecca of college football, Anv final comments, Mr. Jenkins? fans and media have flocked here. l'li"give the old grads another reason 
That includes the ESPN College to burn something," Jenkins said. "I GamcDay trio of fhris Fowlflr, Lee Corso thought Alabama in '66 could have beat­and Kirk IIerbstreit. en either team." 
llerbstreit and Corso are the "voices" of this generation. They're our Jenkins. The opinions expressed in this col­But on a much larger scale. Because of umn are those ofthe author and not the cameras, the lights, the millions of necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Notre Dame, Nebraska rich in football tradition 
Notre Dame and Nebraska utilize dif­
By DAVID DIEHL ferent philosophies and rationales for 

The Daily Nebraskan 

using, or not using as is the case at Notre Dame, a redshirt year for their 
Tim Brown and Johnny Rodgers. Joe players. Montana and Tommie Frazier. Knute Tim Ridder, a former Creighton Prep Rockne and Tom Osborne. standout and guard for the Irish, 1995­
Notre Dame and Nebraska. 98, said Notre Dame, because of the 
In over a century of college football, academic pressures bestowed among all both schools have established them­students, frowned upon redshirting. selves as two historically celebrated "They try to get you to graduate in football programs, gaining fan following three and a half to four years," Ridder 
and support nationwide. said from South Bend. "You can't really spread a major across five years." A fifth year of education at Notre
Checking the History Books 
Dame isn't a given as it is in Lincoln,The Irish and Cornhuskers have co­where students re-enroll without re­existed in college football for 104 years, applying. Notre Dame students mustand Saturday's meeting in South Bend 
apply for a fifth year, thus risking
will mark the 15th time the two will 
denial.

clash and the first since the 1973 
It's a philosophy that Davie whole­Orange Bowl. 
heartedly supports. 
Through the 100-plus years, both 
"You've basically slowed down a red­teams have staked a claim to national shirt's learning process," Davie said. 
prominence from the records, legends, "I think at most places what it does is
players and personnel representing 
it kind of gives those kids a safety net ifeach school. 
they fall behind academically. Here it's
"The tradition in both programs is 
the opposite of that -you'll be granted outstanding," Sebraska Coach Frank a fifth year if, in fact, you've taken careSolich said. "Notre Dame has a rich his­of your business academically.'' 
tory in college football when you talk It isn't the same scenario in Lincoln.
about coaches, teams, awards 
"The educational aspect doesn't figure received." 
into (redshirting) as much as the foot­The national championship rings tell ball aspect," Solich said. 
the story. 

While Notre Dame is stressing acade­Notre Dame has collected eight AP 
mics, Nebraska is no slouch in that
national titles, and before 1936. when department. NU is the all-time leader in 
the AP poll began, the Domers won 
first and second team Academic All­three more consensus championships. 
Americans with 74 selections. NotreNebraska has five trophies to ND's 11. 
Dame has 42 over the years. 
While the majority of the Irish titles came before the Eisenhower adminis­tration, NU has won its respective Making A Change crowns in the last 30 years, with three Both programs have undergone coming in the last seven years under changes at the head-coaching position former coach Tom Osborne. within the last four years. In '97 and '98 
Notre Dame has seven Reisman when Nebraska and Notre Dame made 
Trophy winners, Nebraska two. The their respective changes, both new Fighting Irish have won the most games coaches replaced institutional icons. in NCAA history, 767. NU ranks third The results, however, were drastically 
with 743. Nebraska ranks third in all­different. time winning seasons with 38. ND is Af\er Solich moved up through the 19 
-

tops with 42. years in the NU system to replace 25­
However, NU has the nation's best year coach Osborne, the main staff record the past three decades, and its remained ultimately undisturbed. 234 consecutive home sellouts beats The transition was made from a Notre Dame's by 80 games. National Championship season in 
Osbormi's last year to a 9-4 record in Solich's first campaign. t\. 12-1 season
Producing the Rings 

followed in 1999, and now NU is poisedWhether it is 11 l\io. 1 trophiPs or live, atop the polls entering Solich's thirdnational titles don't win themselves. 
year.

Talented players and experienced 
While Solich's three years have gpne
coaches combine for championship 
smoothly, Davie has encountered roughteams. 
seas.

Developing recruited talent is a major In Davie's first year he endured a 7-6factor in the equation. which includes record. The .568 winning percentagemolding players from high school to col• 
was the worst in South Bend since
lege athletes with the usc of a rndshirt 
1986.
year. 


There's a million reasons to shop 
this weekend. 

, , , 
GO 
e e e 

-
MEIJER HAS ALL YOUR TAILGATE PARTY NEEDS!! Mishawaka South Bend 5020 Grape Road 3600 N. Portage R.oad 273-3500 273-3400 
. . . 

'•I•:: •·I• f • O'' ' 










