
Love Lessons
Spicy .Hot 


Tuesday
J\ student writes about her younger brother. 

Red Hot Chili Peppers sizzled in their April 8 
who recently died ofmeningitis. and

concert. according to music critic Dave Fulton. 
encourages everyone to embrace life as he did. 

APRIL 18,
Scene . page 10 
Viewpoint . page 9 

2000 
THE 



Tlze Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 124 NEWS ANALYSIS 


Bauer: Microsoft could face Inore lawsuits 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY :\ssociatc New, Ediror 

Tlw April 3 ruling by a federal judge lhat romputnr giant l\1icroson violated 
U.S. antitrust laws does not mean that tlw case is ovPr. 
In fart. appeals by \1irrosof't to the int('l"mPdiaw court of appnals in Washington. D.C. and tlwn possibly to thP U.S. SupremP Cuurt could Pxt,md a final dN·ision 


r P g a r cl i n g Gates Microsoft's fate as latP as tlrn spring of 2002, said Joseph Bauer. professor of law at Notre Dame. 
T!w rasp began in May 1998 when 19 stat,~s. tlw District or Columbia and the 
U.S. Justin' Departrn1int filed suit against Microsoft. claiming that the rnmpany w,1s "unlaw['ully tying its Web browser" lo its Windows products. 
T!w ru Ii ng by U.S. District Judge Thomas Pc!nfitild .Jackson found Microsoft in violation of the anti­monopoly Sherman .\ct. 
"Microsof't placed an oppressive thumb on the scale of competitive for­tunn. thereby effectively guaranteeing its dominance," Jackson wrote in his ruling. 
"Up to now. the ruling [which has happened in two stages so far! has been absolutely what l expected." Bauer said. 
The third ruling, which Bauer expects could come this summer, would deal with remedies to the situa­tion, since Jackson declared Microsoft in violation of antitrust laws. 
"Th(\ range of rernedif's extends to the brnakup of Microsoft to ending dif­fornnt kinds of conduct to changing contracts it has with compelitors and customrrs," Bauer said. "The ruling couId also deal with Microsoft's licens­ing codes regarding placPment of their Web browser. 
"I wouldn't speculate, though, what tlrn ruling will be, but my guess is that the court would not order the company broken up, but I wouldn't bet my rent on it." 
But if Microsoft appeals the ruling. as company founder Bill Gates said it would, the process could be extended indefinitely. 
If the ruling on remedies for the vio­lations comes in the summer, the case could be appealed to the intermediate court of appeals in Washington, D.C. 
Following a ruling by that court, the casfl could go to the U.S. Supreme Court because this particular one would likely warrant the attention of the nation's highest court. In that case, hearings on the case before the Supreme Court could come in the fall of 2001 with a final decision by the spring 
see GATES/page 4 
Highlights of the Microsoft Case 
May 1998 

Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson rules Microsoft violated antitrust laws. 

September 1999 
19 states, the District of Columbia and the U.S. Justice Department file suits against Microsoft. 

April 3, 2000 

Negotiations begin between Microsoft and the government 
KRIS FORCIER/The Observer 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Theologians discuss justification 
By ERIN PIROUTEK Associate News Editor 
For centuries the disagreement betwern (atholics and Lutherans has hinged on the Doctrine of Justification. Traditionally Lutherans have empha­sized that salvation is by faith alone, while Catholics maintained that good works are necessary for salvation. On Oct. 31, 1999. representatives of the Roman Catholic Church and the Lutheran World Federation signed their first ever joint doctrinal state­ment, "The Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification." The state­ment acknowledged a basic doctrinal agreement on the theological issue of how God justifies, or saves, people. 
Two principle architects of the docu­ment, Cardinal Edward Cassidy. presi­dent of the Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity. and George Lindbeck, a Lutheran professor of his­torical theology at Yale, presented "The Joint Declaration: A Significant Ecumenical Achievement," at Notre Dame Tuesday night. 
Cassidy explained the history of the document, his views on the ecumenical success of the document and his hopes 
see LECTURE/page 6 
Members discuss 24-hour space, basketball court parking 

By HELENA RAYAM 
News 'Writer 
The Campus Life Council addressed two ongoing reso­1u ti on s during Tuesday's meeting. 
Members discussed the 24­hour space resolution lhaL was introduced earlier this month. The gender relations committee of the CLC met to discuss certain necessary changes, according to Cavanaugh senator Bridget Tornes. 
"We rrvicwerl it anrl rnadP it stronger." said Tomes. 
Among other tasks. the committee madr a !i.st of dorms still in need of 24­hour space. The committee also addressed the issue of making security monitors aware of the rules concern­ing the space. 
Although the committee looked at the issue of securi­ty monitors, Tomes said it decided to delay that aspect so that it could at least address the fact that some 
hour space. 

"The idea behind the reso­lution to address the lack of 24-hour space rather than what rules would be govern­ing it," said Tomes. "It's a lit­tle of different scopr so we're going to draft a lettrr." 
Phil Johnson. assistant director of Security spoke to thn CLC about its recent parking resolution that called for action to be madn concerning vehicles on the basketball courts. Johnson shared information about current policies and Security's responsibilities. The debate over parking spaces continues between students, who want the bas­ketbal I courts to remain recreational space through­out the day and administra­tors, who say that some courts are necessary for parking. 
"I thought they were bas­ketball courts first, parking spaces seconds," said stu­dent senator Phil Dittmar. reflecting on Johnson's infor­
dorms lack adequate 24-see STORY/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, April 18, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 
Hey, baby 

As a 2 I -yp,ar-old senior getting ready to enter the big bad world of the 21st century, I must acknowledge an acceptance of one of God's dearnst gifts -baby-making. 
Now, this has nothing to do with anything relevant to contemporary 
issues on campus. Instead, it has to do with the fact that I am dose to receiving a college degree. and [ am· on the brink of becoming a full-tledged adult 
Thus. it's time to have a baby. Two weeks ago, l was 


forced to wake up at 8 a.m. 
Mike Vanegas 
berausc a plumber was 
coming to my house to fix a 
leaky faucet. So I did what 
Senior Staff
any good-hearted 
Writer
American would do -I 
turned on the TV set. 
Having left the station on Fox the prPviou,; night. I was greeted with a wild. young 14-year-old telling the world how she doesn't care what people think about how she's had sex with so many men. a.nd so many women, because all she cares about is getting pregnant. I think the sho"v was Sally Jesse, or Jenny Jonfls. It doesn't really matter. actually. 
An hrJur or so later, I watched Regis and Kathy Lee announce that Jerry Seinfeld was also going to hp a father with his rerent bride Jesska Sklar. 

The man to whom many of us devote 30 min­utes every evening to witness the hijinks of being single in contemporary America, had not only abandoned us in the wake of his recent marriage to Sklar. but then spit in our face by knocking her up. 
So, l must conclude that now, with single America's ideological hero gone forever, single­hood and unparenthood must be a false way of life in the middle-class America I'm a part of. 
Corne on. 14-year-olds are wanting babies; why can't I want a baby? 

I'm entitled. I've spent four years at this place, working hard. trying to build a founda­tion for my future. I go to class on a regular basis. I usually do my classwork. I've devoted many years to being a responsible student. So now it's lime to be a responsible adult. and it seems the only way to prove that responsibility is to go out and have a baby. 
It needs to be done, l tell you. lt needs to be done. 

It is my duty to enter my child-bearing years now. while I still have time to enjoy life. They say you can't comprehend the fragility and beauty oflife until you hold your child in your hands. and see the fragility and beauty of soft little feet and chubby cheeks. 
I want to understand life. 

By the way, I can't do this alone. I need an egg. I need a uterus. 1 need nine months of womanhood to accomplish my goal. Please help me. people. Please help me. For I want a baby. 
It's an easy decision. really. You'll know up front that your child will be the son or daugh­ter of a college graduate. He or she will be sub­ject to a life-long dose of a hard work ethic, and strong moral acuity. 
I can only imagine how many people out there will jump at this opportunity. For it is rare that one man can spread so much joy on this earth. Indeed. I will spread that joy. Yes. I will spread the joy. 
Just let me know. soon. Time is running out. 

The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
Scene News S:un Derheimer 
Laura Rompf Chris Scort Helena Rayam Graphics Brigid Sweeney Krisrin Forcier 
Sports Production Molly McVoy Brian Kessler Viewpoint Lab Tech l'aul(;k McElwec Shannon Bennett 

The Olise,v« (USPS <;•J•l 2-4000) is p»hli,lm\ M,m,fay 1ltru11gh Fricl•y ~xeept d11dnf exam ;1nd vacarion pttriods. Tiu•_• Ohsf'rve-r is .t member of rhe Asmc:i.;Ut'd Press. A!I re-prnd11uin11 rigltn ,tr(" reserved. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Tear gas ends rowdy block party at Ohio State 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
When the crowd got completely out of 
Hundreds of Ohio State UnivPrsity hand and they wouldn't dispnrsc. students covered their noses and ran that's when they used t<~ar gas. /\t as Columbus police ollir.rirs used tear that point, the majority of the party­gas to disperse an unruly crowd at a goers left the area." block party early Sunday morning. -Brad llall. a student from llrn 
Columbus police Sgt. Earl Smith University of Kentucky. said that thn said that less than a dozen pcoplr. tear gas made everyone in the crowd were arrested for offenses ranging quite uncomfortable. from disorderly conduct to vandalism "It burns you," he said. "It burns in connection with the incident. rour ~outh. burns ~our eyes. ~y face
cal!m· or tho alleged victim, but who­
Thrne offic.ers suffered minor 1s on !1re now. I can t 1wen sec. 
ever called our radio room indicatnd
injuries. Smith said that no officers or stu­
that it had happened at a party." he
The disturbancH startod at I a.m. dents were seriously liurt in Urn inci­
said.

when police responded to a caller dent. "Just cuts and bruises." he said.
Smith said that some people in the
reporting a rape. The scene turned hectic a few min­
crowd became aggressivn toward the
"Initially, I think there were two utes after the tear gas was relrased.
officers. throwing objects at thn of'li­
cruisers," Smith said. "Obviously. The sound of bottles shattering on th<' 
cers and their cruisers. The crowd
that's kind of a priority call." pavement and rocks banging off of 
was made up of 500 to 600 people.
The ofikers arrived at the address. police cruisers punctuated "0-11-1-0"
"The first officers there got hit with 
and found a party. either at the chants. A streaker raced through a
bottles and rocks," he said. 
address or near to it, Smith said. street, to the delight of gathered
"They called for additional of!kers.
"They were not able to locate the onlookers. 
Wednesday 
. 
Film: Krasl Video Series: reaturing "Roman City, .. nuon. Kras! Art Center. St . .Joseph 

. 
Art: "Miniaturl's" exhibit, New Moon Gallery, 11 a.m.-5 p.m. Benton Harbor 


Thursday 

. Theater: "A Flea in Her 
Ear." 8 p.rn., Indiana University South Bend 

. Art: Heartland Artists Gallery, "lloosier Salon" exhibition. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Plymouth 
Friday 
. Music: Lula's Cafe: Featuring Deborah Bartley, 8 p.m. Friday, South !fond 
. Theater: "The Winter's 
Tale:" By Twin City Players. 8 p.m .. St. Joseph 
Saturday 
. Music: The Nr,wsboys: Love, Lib1-1rty, Disco Spring 2000 Concert, 4 and 8 p.m., Scotl<;dale Mall parking lot. South Bend 
. Theater: "Triumph of Love," 8 p.m., Hound Barn Theatre. Nappanee 
Jury request~ U of Minn. evidence 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Last week the University of Minnesota got a dose or the federal grand jury's strength as it was asked to turn over all evidence gathered from its men's basketball scandal investigation. The FBI and the U.S. Postal Service teamed up to serve the University with two fed­eral subpoenas Tuesday and ordered a turnover of every file concerning academic fraud from 1990 until the pre­sent -including information withheld from the public. The subpoenas also commanded the University to pro­vide any and all information regarding former Gophers basketball player Bobby Jackson's academic eligibility. "We're of the view that this is an unusual step. The University has publicly stated before that academic mis­conduct is an academic matter," said University General Counsel Mark Rotenberg. llowever, Rotenberg, who was named in both subpoonas. said he will comply with the request by the government's Tuesday deadline. The fed­eral criminal case, which University otTicials said docs not target current University staff. faculty or students, might involve mail fraud. said Tonya Moten Brown. the University's vice president who oversees athletics. 
Stanford hosts safe recruit visits 
ST/\NFOHD. Calif. 
Prospective freshmen this year had more of a rPason to avoid alcohol under a new Stanford University policy designed to prevent a repeat or last year. wlrnn a high school student was hospitalized after drinking exces­sively. For the first time students were requin~d to sign and turn in a form at check-in warning that "use of alcohol or illegal drugs by participants is forbidden and can result in serious sanctions," including revoking admission. According to freshman host Manja Dobrnca, instead of partying, many prospective freshmen chosn to congregate in lounges on rriday and Saturday night. Dean of students Marc Wais said he was satisfied with the weekend's events. "I think this Admit Weeknnd was very successful in that it provided a safe nnvironrnnnt for students to explore the academic. residential and social aspects of Stanford and to decide if Stanford is the right lit," Wais said. Prospective freshman Mimi Choi said she was pleased with her experience. "Admit Weekend is not really a time to get drunk and party but to get a better idea of what the school is all about." Choi said. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWenther"'forecast for daytime conditions ;md high temperatures 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon,Tuesday, April 18. 
so 
,-•"···,....,.............. 
t~,~_,,..~·J 
l 
H L 
i 
Tuesday ~ 66 45 Wednesday 4, 67 48' 
-.~"­

{:1 ---­
Thursday 4, .· 64 .43; 
\t1tl!/Lt 
Os 
FRONTS: 
Os ..........

......... .............. 
COLD WAF-IM SfATIONAAY
Friday) ~ .•• 56 39: 

PrtH•uu,: 
() ~~ "#(~$~·
® CO . . ITTI . C3 filJ 
High Low Shower• Rain T·storma Flurr!ea Snow /l;c Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vta A,$0<;/lUfld Pr•~s
Sat~rcjay .. ,;s,~ 59 40 
f_5",,.\f.,,..., ...,_/~ \--..r' 

Albuquerque 76 48 Houston B6 fJ7 New York 47 39 Allanla 75 50 Los Angeles 64 Philadelphia 48 44 Boston 43 35 Miami 87 68 Seattle 60 40
q_Q,(dqQ.Q ~ ~ u 53 
Chicago 65 40 Memphis 75 50 Virginia Beach 64 57 
Showers T-srorms Rain Rurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Cleveland 55 40 New Orleans 83 59 Wash DG 54 49 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNt1f 

·ruesday, April 18, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Bjorken Goodwin Rickey
Chamorro 






Notre Dame announces recipients of honorary degrees 
Jcgren recipients will get hon­Cacciavillan has been tho recipient, is the president of the that have been standard quan­
• University to orary doctor of law degrees. Vatican's ambassador to the Points of Light Foundation, tum physics texts for more than
bestow nine Hobert Welsh, a l 9:i6 l\otrr Unitrd States for eight years ·which prornotps volunter.rism. 20 yr.ars. He has spent most of Danie graduate and donor for and the president of tho Goodwin was also the executive his career ,-1,orking at the
degrees at 
Welsh Family llall, is currently Administration of the Patrimonv din'lctor of the U.S. Department Stanford Linear acceleratorgraduation serving his 10th year on the of the Apostolic See since 1998." of Education's "White House Crmtor. -------------Uuivorsitv's Board of Trustees. rormer Nicaraguan president Initiative on Historically Black Another Notre Dame gradu­
Welsh, ,~ho also servf'cs as a Violeta Barrios de Chamorro Colleges and Universities. ate, William Manly will beIly HELENA. RAYAM 
News Writet· University Fellow, is chair and has worked toward preserving As co-founder and executive awarded an honorary doctorate 
chip,f executive of Welsh. Inc .. peace and director of of engineering. Manly's 
The Uniw•rsitv will award· which maintains several ronve-democracy Focus:HOPE, research and work on advanced 
honorary dorton~l(: Jcgrcrs lo 11ience stores with automobile i n which main-high-temperature material.s and 
ninP rpcipiPnts from vurious snrviccs and restaurants. He. Nicaragua "The University looks to tains pro-other processing technology has 
('i('lds. along with UnitPd has also been declared n beginning honor people who grams for received international attention. 
Nalious sccretary-gc~nernl Koli "Sagamore of the Wauash," an with the e11d food, job Currently, Manly i.s a consultant
distinguish themsefoes in 
Annan. at Notn• Damp 's I 55th honor given for distinguished of thi.> training and for thi.> Di.>partment of Energy's Comm1111cnment :vtay 21. scnice to Indiana by the gover­Somoza their personal lives and in child care, Oak Ridge National Laboratory. 
"Th<' Universitv louks to nor. regime. She any number of.fields." Eleanor George Hickey will ~et an honor pt>opln who· distinguish Connie Binsficlrl, forrrrnr li~'u­will reccivP Josaitis has honorarv doctorate of fine arts. tlwms(\lvcs in their personal tenant governor of Michigan, a doctorate fought to end Using stainless steel forms and
Dennis Brown

lives und in anv number of will receive an honorary doctor­in law. discrimina­engineered counterweights. 
f'iPlds," said Dc.nnis Brown, ate of law degree. Binsfeld is During her director of Public Relations tion and Hickey creates art that has 
dirnclor of Public Hnlations and the first woman in Michigan presidency, and Information injustice. She gained· international notice. His 
Information. history to hold leadership posi­Chamorro will be works are on display in muse­
All doctorate rceipients are tions in the state's House, has assisted awarded a ums nationwide and in other 
nominated bv members of tlrn Senate and executive offices. in ending Nicaragua's Contra doctorate of law. countries, including the White 
Nolrn Dairni 1:ommunity and tlrn Archbishop Agostino war, reforming the military sys­Receiving an honorary doctor­House and Washington D.C."s 
l'inal sPIPction proces·s is con­Cacciavillan will get an hon­tem, and improving the econo­ate of science degree is James National Gallerv of Art 
ductPd by tho officers of lhe orary doctorate of law degree my. Bjorken, physicist and Stanford Sculpture Garden. • 
Univcrsitv. for his years of leadership in Robert Goodwin, another hon­University professor emeritus. Commencement is scheduled 
Annan· and f'iv1• of tlw other the Catholic Church. orary doctorate of law degree Bjorken co-authored two books for May 21 at 2 p.m. 



NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FOR A $5.00 BONUS 
Up to $1 45.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 




SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
Tuesday April 18th, 2000 
7:30 p.m. 

Saint Mary's College Little Theatre 
Daniel Weeks 
T E N 0 R 


for ticket information contact the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 2844626 
This concert is presented by Saint Mary's College in a.m,ciatilm ll"ith The Marilyn Home Foundation. 
GJiv 00~ I (~~ 
wg'B~ ,00•11M1c ,oa rro1111 
Student Activities is still looking for students to fill positions for the 2000-2001 academic year. Positions available: 
24 Hour Lounge Monitor ND Cake Service · Building Set Up Crew DeBartolo Event Manager 
Apply at 315 LaFortune or at www.nd.edu/~sao. 

---~--­

-----~-~-----------------------------------------------­
CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 18, 2000
~p~ag~e~4~===================================T,=h=e=O=b=~e::::rv=e=r=•===========-========:=================--~~----=------_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_----= 
Lafortune revisions, new center unlikely 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News '¥.,'rirer 
While the results of last fall's Student ScnatP survey on thP LaFortune Student Center may not be followed to the letter when the University considers the addition of campus social space, the student input should prove valuable nevertheless. according to Father Handy Hentner. assistant vice president of Student Affairs. 
"[StudPnt Affairs) is always evaluat­ing how things are working, seeing what ne11ds to be changed or fixed." Hcntner said. "The survey results won't dictate [University] policy but should give us an idea of how LaFortune is used by students." 
Rentmll" said his office can not and will not act on the issue until he receives an official reporL from the stu­dent senate. Currently the senate remains the only body to b!>. officially presented with the survey nisults. 
"fThe student senate! has been in the 
process of evaluating the results of the 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
mation. 
Dittmar said he was informed that facultv that need to park their cars actua:11y have priority. Johnson pointed out the example of physical education instructors that need to travel from Loftus to The Hock or other intra-campus transportation. For these instructors, Johnson said being able to park on the basket~mll courts might be the best possible 
choice. 
As the Bookstore Basketball Tournament is in full swing, the courts have been fairly empty of cars. but students still express con­

survev in order to prepare a recom­mend.ation to the Office of Studpnt Affairs regarding student opinion of LaFnrtune and other social spaces on campus," said 1999-2000 Student Union secretary Luciana Reali, who chairPd the senate subcommittee on centralized social space. 
Although no official report has I.men drafted yet, initial survey results indi­cate that students are displeased with University social spac.c facilities for a number of reasons. 
The online survey generated 1,136 responses from Notre Dame under­graduaLes last fall. Of' those respon­dents, ] ,018 said they would not con­sider Lafiort.lme to bP an adt~quate entertainment venue. It would be bene­ficial to have 24-hour strnfont center access. according to 1,.058 students. 
Lafortune is most commonly used by students for eating, computing. study­ing and socializing with friends, according to Reali. 
"One matter I hopP that the survey 
addresses is what kinds of things stu­
cerns. ''They don't allow parking as a service tu us during bookstore," said Dittmar. 
Although, the dispute over who will utilize the basketball courts exists, Johnson said that central campus overcrowding is not as bad as it used to be because of the addi­tional parking spaces on the basket­
ball courts. 

Some CLC members questioned parking on the basketball courts saying that U inhibits the residcmtial and pedestrian atmosphere of the 
campus. 

In order to work out these issues, Johnson said Security suggests a committee of students and adminis­trators come up with a policy to work on parking. 
dents want. What specific things am they looking for'!" Henter said. 
According to Heali. students rated LaFortune very poorly on entertain­ment and recreation. Suggested reme­dies included a movie theater, bowling alley or nightclub. 
Hentner said he understands stu­dents' concerns. 
"Personallv, I would like to sec more venue:; on campus for socializing. I don't want students to have to go off campus tu have a good time," he said. 
Although Rcntner recognizes a need for social facilitios, he doesn't foresee renovations to LaFortune or the ron­strucliun of a new student center in the near future. 
"Hcnovations and !constructing] new buildings takes a long time to bring about," Rentner said. 
"Even if {constructing a new building] was something Student Affairs wanted to pursue, we would be just one oflice standing in line for a building request," Hent.uer sairt. "And there arc a lot ahead ofus." 
Johnson said Security also has other ideas t.o improve the parking situation. Ideas include simplifying parking Llecals, Web-based regis­
tration for parking and appeals for parking tickets.  online  
In other CLC news: . Dittmar questioned  what  

Student Affairs does with rector evaluations. Comparing them to teacher course evaluations, Dittmar wanted to know how important and inl1ucmtial the evaluations were to rectors. Assistant vice president of Student Affairs Bill Kirk informed Dittmar that the evaluations are considered, but the office tries to examine other factors that deter­mine the rector's effectiveness as a University employne as well. 


Gates 
continued from page 1 
of 2002. Microsoft. IHJWPver, could face a chal­lenge in appealing the verd_ict. 
"The court's findings of fact are differ­ent for Microsoft to challengr! than those of the law," Bauer said. "Them may wr,ll be two stages of appeal to tho intermediate court of appeals and the Supromo Court. It's hard to guess what either will do since their decisions may not be the same." 
Although Microsoft has said it would he open to morn negotiations with the government, the last snt ol' negotiations between 'Microsoft and the government. which began in September 1999, failed. Bauer is skeptical that further negotia­tions between the r,orpuration and the government would resolve the situation. 
"It's all well and good for Microsoft to say tlrny am willing to rrngotiate but you have to be willing to work with tho other party," Bauer said. "It seems that ir Microsoft wanted to settle, they would havo worked that out in negotiations before this verdict rather than after. I don't think it is any more likely that the parties will settle tomorrow since th1-!y haven't been able to sPttle for the past six months." 


Atria Salon 
289-5080 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
~od.eis .._eecl.ecl. :ro:r 

Great rates, great service -if only
sho:r"t; ha,:i.:r e.._.-t;s 

I could still be a member of the
-.v-ome:.../me:... :ro:r -t;:ra,:i.Ia.:i.II.g; eia.,sses 

Notre Dame Federal Credit Union 
after graduation . . . Dahhh. Bat of coarse you can! And their web page, ndfca.org, makes it super easy with 24 hoar free home banking. Plus no matter where you are, checking is always free! 
complete quarterly financial -­reports 

* Candidates must be a]l-lnlorin
fall '00, prefer an AccotitithJg major 
* 
10 It oursper week 


* 
Ifinterested, please contui:f -­P~NOTRE DAME Crai~ Fitch in Audit & Advisory ~·FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 


For People. Not For Profit
Services at 1-3686. 

INDEPENDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY 





orld 



Tuesday, April 18, 2000 COMPILED FR0l\f THE OBSERVER WIRE SEHVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Heavy· rains cause deadly landslides, evacuations 
()L'ITO. Ecuador 

l.andslit.lcs c1wsPd by six days ol' nearly nonstop rain ha.VP killed 1!1 peopl!:. v,:rPckPd lmnws and f'orn~d thl\ (\\acuaLion ol' dozens of n'1s.icl<-nts in this Andean capital. authorities said Monday. "WP havP a total of 15 p('ople dr·ad as a dircn rPsult ol' ruin and laudslides. rlns" to l;') pnoplc injured to varying degrees and rwarly 30 hotn('S completely dostroyPd," HPcl Cross represr:nlalivn Hocly Camino told Tlw Associated l'rPss. ThP rains. coming m:ar llw end ol' the region's Sc,ptcmbcr-:vlay rainy S('asorL startN1 \Vedrrnsday and conLinuod rwarly nonstop through tlw WPPk('IHi, causing about l:iO l1rndslid1:s anJ prompt.iug the evac­uation of' snnw 180 p•:nplP. ··w,, havA had rain bdon\. but not lik<' this. with landslidos insick Llw rily." said Quito Mayor All'tinso Lasso. 
Death toll reaches 109 in airport explosion 
KINS.HASA. Congo 

l(nwrg0nry workors on Monday pulled oight clr·romposing bodies Crom tlw v\Teckage of a hangar that collapsl'd in a string of airport Pxplosions. bringing thP dPath toll to 109. Kinshasa Cov. ThPophilP Br•mba Fundu said a mass l'urn~ral would likdy be hdd \iV(:dnesday for the victims of Friday's blasts at the dty's ;\/'Djili inl<'rnational airport. ThP causP of the explosions was still uncl1,ar. Morn than 200 pPoplP wnrn also injured in the blasts. Fundu said 28 badlv burn1,d bodins still have not bPPn idrntifi~d. Explanations for the blasts rnng<'d from a short cirniit to a soldier drop­ping ammunitiDn whi!P unloading a plani. full nl' W('apons The blasts ignitPd stockpiles of rocknts. slwlls and otlwr wnaponry in (1Xplo­sions that lastl•d about an hour. shattf'ring windows and f1inging drcbris ('or mil1:s. 
Rebel groups take hostages, clash with government 
M.'\NIL'\. Philippines 

In a soullwrn.Philippi1w province. a Muslim rPbPl group thrr.atPnnd to Pxecutn Americans '\fondav unll'ss th<' li.S. rr.kascs convicted tnr­rorists.-including thP masl(~rrnind of tbe 1993 World Trad(' CP11t1•r bombing. The group also says it will rnlnasP 29 Filipino hostages it holds -but onlv if all Christian residrcnts of thr. provinc:P ar;\ forbidden from displaying (Tosses in public. ln another province, more than 100.000 villagers flpe thPir homes to escapP daslws bdwnnn a sr.cond Muslim rebr.l group and government troops that havr. killed morn than :lOO pcopln in lhc past month. Four yPars ai'ter a p(\,LC<' treaty raised hopes of an Pnd lo tlw i>hilippinl's' d(\Cadns-old Muslim S(!ccssionist n'.b!:llion. p(:iLC(\ in the country's impovPrisht•d southern Mindanao regioi1 appr~ars incrnasingly dusive. 
liiUl,tillitttti;¦­

Dow AMEx: 
848.97 ]ONES -'J.ll() 
Nasdaq:
+276.80 
35J9.16 •217.87 
LJ NYSE ~ 
620.21 
+R.72 
S&P 500: Composite 1401.44 
\'olumc:

10582.50 
1.279.300.000
+-t4.13 
VOLUME LEADERS 

,..AMP.I.NY TICKER '\ Cl:!MGE t CHANGE PEICE t'lSCO SYSTEJoLC:: C!C!CO -t16.t'i7 •9.5000 6'i.50 MICROS-OFT CORF MSFT . 2.37 +.'....7550 75.98 QRACI.E COR? OE.CL +19,70 +12.JliJ0 H..81 ~ASnAQ 100 SHAF QQQ +11.SO '"9-24~0 89.G';o INTEL, CORP IN'I'C +ll.Jl . 12.5000 123.ClO -OUN !ll.iC.li.OS:lSTEM SUN'W +lV.95 ... B.'.HiJO B<i.88 ,JDS U!UPH.ASE JDSlT +21.IJS -,-18.3750 9€.on M(;l W'ORI,OC:OM ll"J i4COM ..,5.58 ,+2.lJOO 40.12 OF.LL COMPU'l"~R DELL +2.36 +1. 1'.250 48. 75 AMERICA ON:..WE AOL +•5.82 +3,7500 51;!,75 
UZBEKISTAN 

U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright walks past an Uzbek traditional crafts exhibition Tuesday in Samarkland. Albright, on a five-day tour of the re~ion, arrived from Tashkent, where she delivered an address calling on Central Asia's leaders to stop their slide away from democracy. 
Albright promotes U.S. policy 
and frequent neglect of Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and said. 
Associated Press 

democratic values. Turkmenistan. Albright promised that TASHKENT "VVhile you are geograph­Members of an Islamic the United States would On a visit to Uzbekistan. ically distant from the group have been convicted commit $10 million to help once famed for the goods United States. you are very in bombings that killed 13 provide training and equip­that flowed through it on closely connected to our people and wounded more ment for counter-terror­the ancient Silk Road, most vital national inter­than 100 last year in ism, border guard and 
Secretary of State 
ests," Albright said in a Tashkent. Uzbekistan's anti-drug units in Madeleine Albright on speech at the Tashkent capital. Neighboring Uzbekistan and neighbor­Monday promised aid to 
University of World Kyrgyzstan, which Albright ing ex-Soviet republicsstifle the modern t1ovv of Ernnomy and Diplomacy. visited Sunday, suffered an Kazkastan and Kyrgyzstan.drugs and militants. 
"Since narcotics traffickers invasion of several hundred She also invited the three Albright warned, howev­
and terrorists know no bor­Islamic militants last sum­nations to participate in a er, tbat the fight against 
ders, it's important that we mer. counter-terrorism confer­narcotics and terrorism work together to counter The gunmen were led by ence for Central Asia in 
must not involve human­the threat they pose." an Uzbek warlord alter­Washington in June. rights abuses in the former Albright noted that the nately based in Atghanistan But she warned President Soviet Central Asian repub­rise of the Islamic funda­and Tajikistan. · Islam Karimov and other lic bordering Atghanistan. mentalist regime in "Afghanistan has become regional leaders that the 
On a five-day tour across Afghanistan has raised a huge problem for region­threat of Islamic extremism Central Asia. Albright is 
concerns that extremism al stability, both because of can't justify their crack­seeking to promote U.S. 
could spread through the the ongoing war and the down on opposition figures poliry in a region known 
region in which three for­Taliban's poor record on and the abuse of human for its booming drug trade, mer Soviet republics bor­terrorism, narcotics and rights and religious free­outbreaks of extremism der on Afghanistan -human rights," Albright doms. 
RWANDA 

Nation elects first Tutsi president 
A.ssociated Press  Front, the country's major political force.  Since 1994. the HPF and sevnn other political parties made up of  
KH;AU  Kagame provisionally replaced. the  both Hutus and Tutsis have ruled  
A  former  rebel  loader  vvhoso  president. Pasteur Bizimungu, in  Rwanda in  a  transjtional govern­ 
forces stopped tho 1994 genocide  March when Bizirnungu. a  49-year­ ment. appointing the Cabinet and  
wns rhosen on Monday as presidrnt  old Hutn, steppi~d down amid  accu­ thr 70-seat National Assembly und(Jr  
of Hwanda, the nation's first Tutsi  .satinns of incompetence and rumors  a powm·-sharing formula.  
lcadrr since indcpendencP in 1%2.  of conflict with the Patriotic Pront.  Last year, the government put off  
Paul Kagame, 43. who previously  Kagame was slated to be sworn in  elections and extended the transition  
had rejected the top post out of fear  Saturday by the Supreme Court as  period  to 2003. arguing that ethnic  
of' antagonizing the Hutu majority,  Hawanda's fifth  prnsidrnt since  tnnsions stemming l'ron1  thn  mass  
was  chosen  presiJent  by  the  indPpenJence.  killings are too high for a free ballot.  
~'arlinmeni and the Cabinri in  an  The HPF is madr up of Tutsi r~xiles •  Senior HPF officials said th1~v  
S 1-S sccn~t ballot.  who won power in 1994 after stop­ would  meet soon  to makP tlw deci­ 
Kaganrn, who had been acting  ping the then-extremist llutu gov­ sion on a vic(1 presidPnt.  
presirknt since last month, won out  ernment's slaughtrr of morn  than  Officials said  onn  of Kagarnn's  
ovnr  Charles Muligande.  also  a  500.000 minority Tutsis and politi­ aides would likely gPt the job of  
leader in  the Hwandan  Patriotic  cally moderate I lutus.  defense minister.  

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 18, 2000 
Catholics and Lutherans power of the Holy Spirit,"
ND, SMC, IUSB students 
while respectiug the diver­said Cassidy. 
Lecture 

sity of individual religious Both Cassidy and traditions. Lindbl~ck cmphasiwd that
continued from page 1

win chemistry awards 
"The Joint Declaration althoug_h lhe Joint for the future. Then, is not a confessional state­Declaration is a significant tions and that was very easy for the audi­
Lindbeck, who was one of ment. nor is it a compro­achievr,mcnt, both By MOLLY McVOY ence to see. It had industrial applications, 
60 "delegated observers" mise document," said Lutherans and Catholics Saint Mary's F.diror and she made that very clear." 
from other Christian com­Cassidy. The declaration must continue their efforts 
From proteins to metals, from carbon to chicken brains, the 23rd annual student paper meeting ran the gamut of scientific research topks. 
The symposium was held Thursday at Saint Mary's, where scientific papers were presented by 21 students from Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Indiana Univf'rsity-South Bend. Science majors from all three schools competed for three prizes awarded un Thursday. 
Saint Mary's senior Sharis Long and Notre Dame senior Julie Fahey won the $100 awards for the best research papers while IUSB senior David Glasgow won the $50 award for the best literature paper. 
"It was very surprising [that I wonl," Fahey said. "My research didn't seem that tough theoretically, but sometimes that works because most people can under­stand it. I am really happy about it." 
Fahey's research was centered on the analysis of proteins. A certain type of pro­tein, amide bonds. are fundamental in maintaining the structure of proteins. Fahev focused her research on how these bonds are stabilized or destabilized, and how the structure is affected. 
Long researched coatings that effective­ly, or ineffectively, protect steel parts from corrosion in industry. Her research focused on what conditions make the coat­ings the most effective. 
"Sharis's presentation, overall, was very good," said Katie Goolsby, a follow senior presenter. "It had some practical applica­
A,;ide from the monetary rewards. many of the participants felt that the experience provided a valuable background for the future. 
"I think it prepared us for presentations we might have to do in the workplace," Long said. "In industry, there is not a lot of time to explain your research. The fact that we only had ten minutes, and it was a little pressured because of the contest, was good experience for a futurn in industry." 
Goolsby agreed that this gave her some valuabe experience for her future in the chemistry work world. 
"I thought it was interesting to hear what other people from other schools were doing," Goolsby said. "These opportunities make me able to communicate the research I did. That is very important, because I am going to have to do that in graduate school." 
Fahey will be working at a small man­agement/consulting firm in Chicago, and eventually hopes to go to law school. 
"Giving these presentations has helped me with my general presenting skills,'' she said. "It was also great to get a chance to not only meet the chemistry majors at Saint Mary's, but. also, to hear the research that my fellow chemistry majors at Notre Dame are doing." · 
The conference is held annually and has typically be1rn held at Notre Dame. Recently, however, the meeting has been organized by Philip Bays, the head of the Saint Mary's chemistry department. and has been hosted by the College. 
munities at the Second Vatican Council from 1962-65, responded to Cassidy's speech, support­ing Cassidy's remarks while adding his own thoughts about the Future of Lutheran-Catholic rela­tions. 
"From the beginning of the formal Lutheran­Catholic dialogue, the Doctrine of Justification has been an important topic," said Cassidy, not­ing that the document is the result of decades of dialogue between the churches. 
"These illusions can be shattered, ... these illu­sions of separateness," said Lindbeck. 
The Joint Declaration has reached completion at a particularly appropriate time, according to Cassidy. 
"For Catholics, this achievement. enhances our celebration of tho jubilee year, said Cassidy. 
The declaration expresses a doctrinal agreement between 

states the basic truths that both faiths hold. It also shows that they don't con­tradict each other. 
Cassidy quoted a key passage of tho Joint Declaration: "Together !Roman f:atholics and Lutheransl confess: By grace alone, in faith in Christ's saving work and not because of any merit on our part, we are accepted by God and received the llo-ly Spirit. who renews uur hearts while equipping and call­ing us to good works." 
"The same truths may be expressed in different traditions in diverse forms," said Cassidy, explaining that diversity of' expression may enrich faith, but cautioned that it also may wound relations between different faith traditions. 
Cassidv also focused on the roln ·or the Holy Spirit in the preparation of the .Joint Declaration, as well as in future dialogue between religions. 
"It is certain that we can and must cooperate by the to reach the goal ol' full communion. 
"We have not roached the r,nd of the road by any means," sairt Cassidy: · 
"The withdrawal of con­demnation in the Joint Declaration is only a first step," said Undbeck. 
The document, in addi­tion to clarifying the Doctrine of Joint Declaration, brings up new issues. 
"The Joinl Declaration itself sets before us a number of' questions that await our joint a.ttlmtion," said Cassidy. specifically mentioning the sacra­ments, ecclesiology and the ethics of the Joint Declaration. He noted that the realization that Catholics and Lutherans can overcome a major dif­ference is a positive sign for future communion. 
"There is o nn _sa~in?, actwn of Jnsus Christ, said Cassidy, noting that the salvation descril)('d in the Joint Declaration should be the cause of continual celebration for membnrs of both faiths. 

~ftftftftftftft~ftft~ftftft~ 

Development 
New service available thru ND Express. Lower Level LaFortune 
Hours: Monday-Thursday ll:00am-5:30pm & 8:30pm-I2mid Friday ll:00am-5:30pm Closed Weekends 
Same day service if dropped off by 12n. 


~ ft ~ LOOKING FORA ft 
~ ft ~ BIG MOVE THIS 
ft FALL??? 
~ ft
SEE WHAT

ft ft ft ft ft CAMPUS VIEW ft ft ft ft IS ALL ABOUT ft ft ft ft ~
272-1441
ft 
~ ORSTOPBY: ft 1801 IRISHWAY ft 



Attention r,ophomorer,! 
6iet invo\ved in 
Jl'W ~001 

t\e\p plan the moit eJ,itin9 event of 1our junior 1earl 
No'I! aueptin9 app\it.ations for a\\ positions of the £Je£..Utive 'P\annin9 l.ommittee. 

App\iGations are avai\ab\e at the l''PW Offi,e (MOS Lafortune) and the 'btudent Al.tivitiet> Offic.e. App\i,ations shou\d be re.turned to 'btude.nt Al-tiVities no 
\ater than Thursda~. Apri\ ul', 1-000. 'bi9n up for an interview when 1ou return 1our applic.ation. 
Questionr,? C.ontaGt Meghan, 4-1-5'1'1. 



Tuesday, April 18, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 


THE 
SUMMER SERVICE 
PRQlECT 


University of Notre Dame 
• 
Three elective Theo Credits 

• 
Eight Weeks. $1700 Scholarship 

• 
Additional $1,181 in Americorps Award available 



CALL THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS WITH QUESTION AT 631-7867 
A Way to Peace, or Peace is the Way? 
CATHOLIC 
Perspectives on 
R.O.T.C 
¦ 
. 
Why does Notre Dame have ROTC? 


. 
What does the Church teach about Just War Theory? 

. 
Should Christians participate in the US military? 


These questions and more will be explored in a lecture by 
"War, Law, and Ethics" professors Todd David Whitmore and 
Fr. Michael Baxter' cscfrom the Theology Department. 
Refreshments and small group discussion will follow the lecture. All are invited to attend! 
7:30 PM WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19TH AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Sponsored by PAX CHRISTI-NOTRE DAME This discussion is encouraged by M1NESTY INTERNATIONAL. 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Over 30 Sites Open! 
~ Buffalo, New York -(Local Student) -0 Columbus, Georgia -Small home for homeless men ~ Dallas, Texas -Brady Center for Kids -(male) 'l!:J Delaware• Sojourner's Place (live on site) ./'J Dubuque, Iowa • Camp for kids with physical problems -0 Ft. Wayne, Indiana -Matthew 25/Clinic for low income ./:, Ft. Worth, Texas -Habitat for Humanity/kids -(! Grand Rapids, Ml -Clinic for Migrant Workers (Spanish) ~ Harrisburg, PA-Interfaith Family Shelter ,et Houston. Texas -Catholic Charities -0' Kansas City, Kansas -Catholic Worker House (male) 
Don Bosco Center -variety ~ Kokomo, Indiana -Home for women (female) ,et Marion, Indiana -Family Services/Emergency Shelter ~ Poughkeepsie, NY -Good Counsel Home for pregnant ceens -6' LaPorte, Indiana -Sharing Meadows/Oislll>Uldu camp for adulta ~ Muskegon, MI-Every Women's Place/Young teen program .t, Nashville, TN -Oasis Center for troubled teens ~ Northern Michigan -Fr. Fred Foundation/Emergency oervice• ,0-Jacksonville, Florida • L'Arche Home -!'l' Rochester, New York -Home/clinic for pregnant teens .t, Peoria, Illinois -(local) Guardian Angel Home (kids) ~ Springfield. Massachusetts -Food Bank -0' San Diego, California -Disabilities/Job Training -t'l' San Francisco, California -Andre House (male) -!'l' Souch Dakota -Small shelters/reservation camp ~ Norwalk, Connecticut -Transitional shelter -1' Ventura. California -Emergency Services 
SMC professor awarded grant 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Associate News Editor 
Nancy D'Antuono, profes­sor of Italian at Saint Mary's, is among a select group of the nation's college educa­tors ­15 to be exact ­who re­ceived a grant f r o rn the Na­tion a 1 Endow-men t for Humanities for interdis­ciplinary study of Italian ruins from Greek and Homan civilization. 
The grant will allow D'Antuono to study the Greek and Roman ruins outside Naples, Italy. The National Endowment for Humanilies sends out 


information  "It will allow me to  looking to  
to academic institutions throughout the country  study the Greek and Roman ruins outside Naples  put the r i g h t group of people  
regarding  and to examine  together  
grant avail­ability. A committee  the assimilation and re-creation  and it just depends if you fall  
r  e  a  d  s  ofthe ruins ... "  into  the  
through all  g  r  o u  p  
the appli­cants and selects  Nancy D' Antuono Italian professor  they are lo~.king for.  
between 10  S  h  e  
to 15 indi­ hopes  to  
viduals  to  b  r  i  n  g  

receive a grant. The goal of what she learns this sum­tho selection committee is to mer back to the classroom choose a group of individu­to benefit her students at als from various disciplines Saint Mary's. who will be able to benefit "We do study cities and from each other's expertise. the cultures of' cities in 
"The title of my project is Italian classes here," said 'Campagnia Felix: Nature, D'Antuono. "I anticipate Mythology and the Works of using the material from my Man,"' said D'Antuono. "It research for a class I am will allow me to study the developing on Italian cul­Greek and Roman ruins ture and civilization with a outside Naples and to exam-focus on major citi<'s." 
inc the assimilation and re­creation of the ruins and what they stand for in poetry of twn Italian renaissance poets at the Aragonese Court in Naples." 
D'Antuono's project. which begins when she leaves for Italy on May 28, will last fiwi weeks. After completing research iu Italy, she will write a paper and article for scholarly publication. 
D'Antuono said she was surprised to learn she had been selected to receive the grant. 
"I really didn't know whether or not I would receive one of the grants because I've been teaching for a long, long time and I thought that they might want to give the grant to a younger scholar," said D'Antuono. "I wasn't sure I would receive the grant because they arc 
Visit The Observ-er Online. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 
VIEWPOINT 
THE page 8 OBSERVER Tuesday, April 18, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
1'.0. !lox Q, Notre Dome, IN 46556 024 Somh Dining I !all. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOll IN Ct-UEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Nore~n Cillespie  Tim Lane  
AssT, MANAGING EDJT0ll  OrERATI0NS MANAGER  
Tim Logan  Brion Kessler  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mauingly V1l'Wl'OINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SroRTS EDITOR: Kerr, Smith SCENE EDITOR.: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Li1. Lang 
ADYF.RTISING MANAGER: Par Pccers AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chis Avib SYS'IEMS AiJMINISTR.AT0R: Mrke Gunville WEt1 AnMINISTRAT0R: !\dam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRArHIC.S EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.............63 I -747! 
FAX.......................................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING ...............................631-6900/8840 
obscrvcr@darwin.cc. nd. edu EDITOR IN CHIH........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME.. .................. 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE. ......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu V!EWl'OINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu Sr0RTS........................................................631-4 543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://ob,eroer.nd,d11 for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, teacures and opinion columns. as well as cartoons. reviews and breaking ne\vs fiom the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-co-rhe 
weekly srudem reviews 
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rares ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
ro mee, che editors and
articles published afrer 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independenc, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe scudencs ofrhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, includingadverrisemenrs, is nm governed by policies ofthe adminimation ofeither ins,itution. The Observer reserves rhe right co refuse advertisements based on conrem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe ma;ority of rhe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, !\ssiscam Managing Editor and department editors. Commemaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and musr include contact information. 
QuMi1Jm regnrdl11g Observerpolicies should he dirert­ed to Editor 111 ChiefMike Co1111ol!y. 


Running in back of the pack 
The snow on the ground and the 15 degree windchill just added to the irony of the Christmas in April run Saturday, April 8. As the participants gathered in Stepan before the race, I heard one guy say to his running partner, "They've fooled the weather into thinking it really is Christmas, and it's reacting accordingly.» 
I blame the weather for the small size of the running pack. The weather, and the large number of dorms having dances the night before, which would have made more than half the campus too tired to get up the next morning and go running. The weather, dances and the early hour ol' the race. I mean, who really wants to get up on a Saturday to be at Stepan by 10:45 a.m.? Only the really in-shape, psycho­training, 5-minutes-a-mile runners would have come out for a race on this particular day. 
I'm rationalizing. Over a hundred people came out to run or walk in exchange for a free tee-shirt and the cheerful company of Hee Sports finest. But I need to rationalize, because, despite running the entire race, I fin­ished last among the 5K runners. The winner's time was about half of my time. Three lOK runners finished before I did; they ran twice the distance in less time. 
So yeah, it's a little damaging to my self-cst11em to have lo admit to myself that I came in last. The first race I entered was the I lockey Power Play 

Kate Rowland 
Read This, It May Save Your Life 
run, in September, and, though my time was four minutes slower, I was far f'rom the end of the pack. During the Power Play run, I never once saw the first aid cart that follows the last run­ner. At the Christmas in April run, the two [irst aid workers kept me company through the whole course. 
On the other hand. and this is how I choose to look at it, I ran five kilome­ters. Sure, it took me a half-hour to do, but l never used to be able to do that. I didn't start running until last year, and I didn't start wondering whether 1 could run five kilometers until this year. The first time I tried, I couldn't. 
I can now, and I'm proud of that. That's the thing about running: even if you start out terrible at it, you can see yourself getting better. Two weeks after you start, you'rn running farther than you could before. And at the same time, no one is standing around with a stopwatch. No one knows how long it takes you to run. no onn knows if you run once and then never go out again. If you hate it, you get to stop. 
Shortly after I started running, I was reintroduced to Eric Zorn's For Once in Our Lives Society (FOOLS). Eric is a columnist for the Chicago Tribune who in 1998 decided to run the Chicago Marathon in October of that year. flundreds of' readers decided to join him in his training. They started a club -FOOLS. That was all they were try­ing to do: get out there and attempt something new, change their lives for the better, do something unusual for once in their lives. They had a chal­lenge, they had a goal, they had the solidarity to make it. 
They also had really good lung capac­ity, stamina and inspiration. I thought they were nuts. I still do. A marathon is 2(,.2 miles; a 5K is :u miles. You can do a SK without anyone knowing, but there's no surreptitious way to run a marathon. Tell your roommate: 'Tm going out for four hours, I'll come back sweaty, barely able to walk and then proceed to do nothing but drink watm· and moan for the next three days." 

If marathoning is your thing, go for it. For me, two or three miles is enough lo accomplish what l want to: I get 20 or :rn minutes alone with whatever is most pressing on my mind. I started running because of a desire to be a stronger person after I was the victim of an assault last year. It is the best therapy I could have found. Running. even at my pace, makes me feel better about myself. 
Five days after my stunning linish at the Christmas in /\pril run, I (Jnternd the Miles for Medicine 5K. I started the race pumped. psyched, ready to do bet­ter. /\bout a half-mile in, after all the other runners wern out ol' sight ahead of me, I heard the unmistakable bur­ring of the first aid golf cart behind me. Two and a half miles later, l jogged into the finish line, last again. But l look at it like this: I got my tee-shirt, someone has to finish last. May as well be me. 
But next time you're at a race, don't count on 111(1 being tlrn mm to finish last. I may be gaining on you. In tlw lirst aid golf cart, of course. 
Kale Rowland is a senior archaeology major. She would like lo thank Zachary and Hurt for all their help in develop­ing this topic, and she would also like lo say hi to all the people who she says hi to while oul running around the lakes. Ifyou 're bent on communicating with her, e-mail her at Rowland.6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ,fthe author and not 1zeces­sarily those of The Observer. 
I'VE BEEN TAKING A 
SELF-PACED 
ONLINE TRAINING 
COURSE TO "SHARPEN 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The only reason I would take up jogging is so that I could hear heaoy breathing again." 
Erma Bombeck author 


VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, April 18, 2000 OBSERVER page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A younger brother's 

lesson on love 
I 1wvcr thnughl I would learn a lesson about love from my younger brotlwr. .los1•ph Patrick Kepferlc. My little brnllwr by two and a half wars. 
EVPrVot;P krww him as l'·al. I've always admired my brotlwi· !'or his ini:rmliblc spirit and his extreme love of life, I alwavs wislwd I could be morn likfl him. Even if a bit rnrkless sometinws. ht) alwavs did what lw thought would make him and Uw pcopl11 an.JUml him the happi.est, espe­cially when it came to his friends and family. He loved 1wPryLhing aboul life, and knew how to take~ this lo\'e and turn it in to smiling faces and everlasting friendships. Pal was horn on M,trch 22, 198'I and diod on March !l, 2000. l'at was a l'r!\shman at Towson Cnivnrsity in Haltimorr., ma1orin),{ in thnatl'r. Ile was incrnlibly popular at homti anrl al school, and not lmcausP he was a 'cool guy'. 1111 was a gPn11irw f'ri<!nd to everyone. Ile wasu't perfect, but he was enthusiastic and lw was confidnnt in himself and hn lovml his friends. 
I h• clt•lined fril'ndship. I!1~ was mm of those pPop\e who n•ally nwant it when he said 'how arn you?'. This was later t;mpirnsiwd during ttw days following his death. When I arrivml at my soutlwrn \1aryland home that Monday morn­ing, cars lin(~cl my strnt>t. Ex.ccpt bntwt>en tho hours of 11 
p.m. to 8 a.m .. them W<\re up to 60 people at our house from the day of his death until Urn day of his funeral, one W<'Ck latN. Patrick's l'rim1ds began arriving in droves from tlwir rnllcges, many on spring break. 
Pt•oph\ cried and missml him grnatly, of course, but more so pnoplt\ lauglwd and enjoyed sharing stories of how Pat louclwd each ol'lhnm during bis short life. lie left an incrndiblP irnprnssinn on everyone he nrnt. He was intelli­gent, funny and had a great talent at ad lib comedy. He plannPd to join thn cast of Saturday Night Live someday. But. the true core of Patrick was his friends. 
Two clays after his doath, my family attended a candle­light snrvicn at Towson. Patrick had only been there for seven months, but I broke down and wept when I saw that clos11 to 200 of Pat's 'closest' nmv f'rinnds were at the ser­viw. Thn following wneknnd, close to 1000 of people atlnnclPd his funeral Mass. 
My healthy, happy brother was stricken with type-C bac­tcwial meningitis, got sick and died in a matter ()f less than 12 hours. He did not know that thP. symptoms of meningitis mimic the nu. lie went to the hospital too late. There are so many questions I could ask, but I can't look back. Patrick enjoyed life to its fullest up to his death. All I can think now is, evoryone needs to be like this, to follow this 
18-ycar-old's philosophy. 
I know Patrick had no regrets in life. Something like this can happen to anyonn, but no one is ever ready. The best way to prepare is to utilize lifo and turn it into what makes you happy. If' you do this, you will touch more people than you will probably know in this life. · Whal greater comfort r.ould I ask for, except to know that Patrick had no enemies in the world? lie loved life and nvrryone he met. I deeply believe that if everyone chooses to h1ad their lives the way that Patrick led his, there would be no regrets. 
Love like it never hurts. That is the best advice I've ever heard. 
Kaci Kepferle 
Senior McGlinn Hall April 11, 2000 

Viewpoint is currently accepting letters for the commencement edition. Please label letters "senior week" and send to observer.viewpoint.1 @nd.edu 
// 

AbsenCe of meat in dining hall is not repressive 
Friday, April 7, Joanna Mikulski said that with es would make eating at the dining hall so expen­meatless Fridays. "Tlrn <lf'cision to consume or not sive that most couldn't afford it. And another rule to consume meal is taken from me." Non­is that meat (and expensive seafood) cannot be Catholics and non-practicing Catholics want to eaten during the Fridays of Lent. choose meat on Fridays but they cannot. It is, However, it cannot really be construed as reli­quite clearly, a very reasonable claim. I want gious oppression. Why? Because meatless Fridays · something not bad in itself and I'm denied having don't impose a religious belief. It's up to you if you it. choose to join your sacrifice with Christ's on the 
However, this is true of many other things at the Cross. It's up to you to give that money you saved dining hall. People who are accustomed to eating by foregoing meat to the poor and the needy. If caviar and champagne for breakfast cannot do it you just changed your diet eight days out of the at the dining halls. If you come from India or year, that's up to you. Ecuador to the U.S. you cannot eat the food you This is a Catholic university. When I came to the arc used to eating every day. If you are from prac­United States from Ecuador I knew I wouldn't find tically anywhere but the United States you are my "patacones" in an all-American place (Notre probably used to having some alcohol with your Dame does try, though). I don't complain about meals. cultural oppression. When you come to the 
Notre Dame is a Catholic institution, that's true, University of Our Lady you should get used to and that is why it uses Catholic rules to decide on meatless Fridays. the menus. One of those rules is respect for the laws of the United States: therefore, lest a minor Gabriel Martinez have alcohol, the rest of us are denied a beer with Graduate Student lunch. Two other rules are moderation and soli­April 9, 2000 darity: caviar and exotic dishes are outlawed because they are immoderate -more, those dish-
Abhorring student apathy 
Pick your vice; today's society offers us a multi-question whether it's really what constitutes their tude of personal f1aws to which we can choose to self-actualization. succumb. You name it-addictions, hatred, While I'm not suggesting anarchy, 1am advo­envy, vanity -the list goes on. Licentiousness is eating a release of inhibitions and orthodoxy to as universal as are the complaints about ___ the point where we no longer ride the parietals here at Notre Dame. Just don't fence but take life to our own destina­let your choice be indifference. It is by , _ tions. far the weakest form of living. ,~ Why must it take cliche mid-life 
I would venture to sav that most crises for people to start question-of the Notre Dame stud°ent popul ing what they really want out of tion finds life worth living and life? Look around you. ls it what takes action to perpetuate it. you want? If yes, then I chal-Nonetheless. the apathy sur-lenge you to continuously rounding us is like a colorless, reassess your answer to that odorless and poisonous gas. • • question. If not, change it. Though you can't see or smell • • That's the beauty of all of this it, it will eventually kill you. • • -it's elastic. Passion is a 
What I can see is that people ....., • virtue that should not be have great ideas here, as missed. I guarantee you will
i' should be expected in the i get more out. of your experi­thinktank that is this University. ~ ences if you put a liltle passion But there is altogether too much c into them. It adds another conformity to tlrn norm -too ._ ------dimension to life. And yeah. much acceptance of policy with-you'll get burned somntimes, but out questioning its validity. Sure, -i--~r.. at least you will have taken part there is a common thread strung in the lighting of the match that throughout the demographics and contacted the paper that made the background of thP vast majority of blaze begin. That's the important Domers that preserves the groupthink --~ stuff, So pick a side. make yoursPlf' vul­that has mnerged. Still, there isn't a reason nerable, join me in my abhmTflllCB of apa­whv people have to adhere to imposed values or thy. standards. What may have once been appealing in the homogeneous conditions that exist here, is now appalling. Too often lafoly l\·e felt like I'm Michelle Simon walking around an Orwellian novel of prepro­Sophomore grammed individuals, too complacent with their Breen-Phillips Hall prescrilrnd way of living that they don't stop to April 5, 2000 
-------·---­

page l0 Tuesday, April 18, 2000 
CONCERT REVIEW 

Oakenfold leaves crowd wanting more 
ing tour l>.J. Halph quickly work0d thf' crowd into a Oakr,nf'old's set was an unbelievable n~ndition of' a
ByTONYCAK 

frenzy with his driving styl0 of trance and technu trancr, remix of Hadiobcad's "Slreet Spiril." It was 
S,cn( !'-1usi'" Cnt11. 

records. One of' the morn notabln -and bizarre -amazing Lo hear such an emotional song in such a 
portions of his set was whPn the show's promoter dif'l'crent contrxt.. 
Paul OakPnfold. You may be wondPring who he is. walked out on stagn and thrnw out placards with Throughout hi!:i sci., Oakenfold would close his For those ol' you who do not know. he is one of the the wnrd "Studly"' on llrnrn -showing the spon­eym; and get lost in the rnusi('. or dance around the top British Ills and producers. llis remixes. in tlw taneity of danr,o musir, -which is largPly about stage while changing records. llis actions showod guise of the Perfecto label. are played throu~l10ut celebrating lhc moment. that he truly loves what he is doing -a love that 
Lhe world. lie draws large 
Around 11 :30 p.m., Oakenf'old strolled onstagc to was then transmittP.d to tho crowd. crowds wherevPr he DJs. espe­loud r.lH'Prs of tho crowd. both for his arrival and Oakenfold finally ended his set around 1::-rn a.m., 
cially al his o\vn club. llome. in in celebration of Dave llalph's amazing set. I.hough he was actually forced Lo end due to noise 
London. Oakr.nfold needed only to start his first record permits. leaving thn crowd crying f'or more. 
His show on Marrh 31 was no before the crowd went crazy. As the fans left thn thnater. an o!d(\I' serurity exception. The night saw the This nnnrgy continued throughout his two-hour altendant comm<'nte<l. "Now I know how you young Perfo<·to tour make its stop in sPt. as Oakenf'old workPd thP crowd into a l'r0nzy kids stay in shape." This comnwnt 1wrhaps bPst Chicago at the Riviera. and saw with his ambient intcrludns. f'ollowcd by enormous sums up Urn evening. it was about tlw ct>lPbration lllf' lar gP Ii n P to gi> l in w in d buildups of' sound and music, causing tlrn crowd to oJ' grnat music and tlw rnlnase or <rnnrgy through around lhti rorner for ni>arly go wild once thf' driving heal kicked in. Thrs0. dance and sound. Lwo bl1icks. This event was going Oakenfold buildups ol' sound. leading to pounding I.ranee If' given the opportunity to hear Paul Oakcnl'old to be huge. and it certainly was. beats, continued throughout the night and r,om­spin anywhere in the world. it is an expPriP11c~1 that 
After suffering through thP binPd with the lights. fog and abstract images on comps highly rpr,ommended. Perfecto <'VPnts offor huge line, !'ans were finally able two large' screens bAhind the stage lo provide an great music and an amazing atmosphere. /\nd to make it into the theater and were quickly drawn amazing release for dancing and celebration. though you may be left very t.irPd. you'll also bl' !Pl'! to the dance noor by Daw; Ralph, Oakenfold's open-A particularly enjoyablP moment during vory happy. 
CONCERT REVIEW 

Chili Peppers, Foo Fighters perform solid show 
their stage performan<:c. In between 
By DAVE FULTON 

songs. Flea and Kicdis bantered back and Scene ~1usic Criric 
forth trying to onn-up the other like grade-school l'hildren in an argument "Let's play ball." exclaimed Anthony over wlrnse mother is pretliPr. Th<' Kiedis through the microphone as the Hr.d Peppr1r's maturity was, bow0ver. evident !lot Chili Peppers took the stage and in thdr song selection. Whi10 many of tlrn jumped into a furious "Around the World" popular rndio-t'riendly songs wen' pl<Ly<'d. during their show with the Foo FightP.rs, like "Give if t1way," "Scar Tissue" and April 8. in Bloomington. Ind. "Othf'r Side." the band also brought out Plav ball is exactlv what thev did as the troasurns likP "Blood ,','u_gar Sex A4agik." Pepp-crs ripped th;·ough thefr one hour "ff You llave lo Ask" and "flight On Time." and 20 minute set vvith thr. intensitv of a Where many bands with as mucb materi­team of ball players in a champio.nship al to work from as the Chili Peppers itlrny game. The band's performance was noth­have sewm albums) try to put together a ing less than !lawless. despite the f'ar.t the greatest hits performance, the Peppers band has not toured in four vears and has found a happy medium b11tween grcatnst been plagued by more problems than a hib and hidden gems. They all but voidPd der.n:pit 90-year-old man with erectile out anything from earlir.r albums and dvsfunction. With Pach band rnemher c.ompletely ignored 1995's "Onn llol "(Jean" and with the return of former g·ui­Minutn," rer,ordeca.v.ith former .lane's tarist -tlw highly underrated John Addiction guitarist l>avP Navarro. Whil<'. Frusciante -thP band is truly back at the "Onn llot \Unutr" and older albums were~ levPJ many critics l'elt was the Pepper's solid albums. thev lack1id lhe cohesiveness peak during the Blood Sugar Sex Magik and brilliance o"r albums recorded with 
Tour in 1991. With Kiedis. F!Pa on bass Frusciante. and a recentlv buzzed and shav<'<l Prusciantc's performanc:c epitomized 
Frusciante on guitar. they looked like what makes him such a phenom(\nal gui­shirtless warriors in the image of tar player. Ile played with funk; h1! played Michaelangelo's David. standing tri­with punk; and hf' played with passion. umphant after thriving in battle against Whiln many grpat players try to mimic the the pitfalls that nearly brought their 16-crazed showmanship of Eddie Van Halen, vear c·arPer to an end. Frusciante displayed a very disciplined · From thP time the, Peppers took the stvle. llis solo during "/ Coulcl /lave Liecl" stage through thl' final note of Jimi w'as brutally gentle as hn pickd each not11 Hendrix's "Fire." the band emittPd an Plcr­with thr, sam11 care a poet picks his words, trir.ity that filled the sold-out arena. while ho completely let loosP on "Suck My Performing songs mainly ofl' 1991's mas­Kiss," attacking his guitar like a starving 
tcrpirrc1 "Blood lion attacking a pic('e with a highly cnergntic set of thoir signa­into loud. distortion ladnn choruses. it is a Sugar Sex Magik'' of mnat. Mirroring turn pop ro(',k. While many bands of thn formula that works ror tlrn band. Songs
and last vear's 

The hand's performance u•as Frnsciante·s mov1~­gnnrc t1•11d to be onP-hit wondPrs. the Foo lik<~ "/i'rwrlong," "For Ill! the Cows" and inlrospHtivcly ments and intPnsitv 
Fighters havr. bf't:n ,tblc lo succ<~ssfully "This ls a Call" wen' 1dvcn a rn'w intensity 
nothing !Pss than flawless,

brilliant wa.s Floa, thrashi11g blr.nd taknt with <:atrhy hooks to keop snparat.ing them from the album versions. 
"Californication." despite the fact that the band about likn an r,pileptic 
thorn at the front in the post-grun)!;e era. One ol' the things that makPs the Foo the band played has not toured in four years on riddalin and sprwd This blend shownd through during their Fighters such a rPl'reshing band is tlwir 
with a perfoction and occasionally 
pnrformance. lack or rock star ego. To them, playing
and has had been plagued by

that was amiss dur­danring likP a crack­Drcssnd in tight black pant..c;, black shirt music isn't a job; it's a pleasure. and it 
ing thn 1995-% One more problems than a head, wb ilc Kiedis 
and white tie with a Beatlm;que mop or comns out during thnir port'ormarH'<'.llot Minutn Tour. decrepit 90-yPar-old man with whippnd about in a hair, singnr/guitarist Davn Groh! IPd thn Whil<~ many bands today simply get up on 
Songs lik!, "Soul ro 

pair or black shorts band -rasping and screaming inlo the stage and play thnir songs, the Foo
erectile dysfunction. 

Squeeze." a cover of like a hypnr-activc 
microphoni~ -through a powerful sel of Fighters pnrf'ormed th1\m. During
Hob Dylan's 

<'lemontary schoolhoy. favorites and material from their new "Breakout," Groh! jumped down into thn 
"Subli'rrcmean lfom.esick Blues" and ".\1e Through all or lhis insanity at the !'runt of album, "Thorn Is Nothing Left lo Lose." audience and ran a lap around thP main and ,\1y friends" illustrntcd thn brillianr.e the stagP, in thn back was Chad Smith, lay­floor with a
The band starlnd things off with an explo­Chnshire grin whiln sevPral that th11 Peppers arc Vf'ry capable of 
ing down thn rhythm on the drums. One of sive "Monkeywrench" with Grohl convuls­ovorweight and out of shape security,u;hirving. The rust µresent <luring their the most underratt~d membt'rs of thn 
ing about looking like an adrenaline over­guards trailnd behind before hP climhPd S<'t at Woodstock '99 had be1~n remowid. Poppers, Smith kept llrn beat pt'rfnrtly and load nd version of .John Lennon. From back on stage to finish. the song.leaving only a polished sparkle on the drnw little attention to himself' save f'or a there t.hc band picknd up speed and inten­In a world where many or the bands 
band's performance. /\t least as much a brief-but brilliant -drum solo. sity, slowing down only once for Groh! to seot11 to blend in with nn"P anotlrnr, tlrn polish as a band of' goolballs r,an have. The Chili Peppers were nol lhe only spot 
pcrrorm a solo version of "/Jig Me." Whilo performances by thn Foo Fighters and lhP While the band has maturnd a great of brilliance throughout thn performancn many of the Poo Fightnrs' songs share tho Chili Peppnrs wr.re a much-needed breath 
deal. their maturity did not come out in as the Foo Fighters opened the Pv0.ning same formula of a slow start escalating of' fresh air. 



Tuesday, April 18, 2000 page 11 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Handsome Boy sets new hip-hop standard 
Tribe Ca!IPd QuPst, Peter Wolf and Chris 
Ay TODD C_ALLAIS Bock bavP in common'? 
'\\:t'ill' f\.1u,j, (~1Hi1i: 
i\nswPr: ThPy are ,iust some of the artists 
that PrincP Paul has produced in his illus­
EVt'ry rnH:f' in a whill' ,lll aluLm1 rnnws trious crnw'r. Although he mainly focuses 
around that may not gPt continuous his attention to the hip-hop scPnl'. he play in f'Vt'ry musir fan's disrnmn. buL d11li­demonstrates his crossover abilities on this nitP!v has tlw powntial tu bP a trendS(\lU\r album. In his own right. Dan ··the and hold a spot in llw ··what album most \utomator" Nakamura has IPnt his pro­motivat(~d y11ur music?" ;-;p,Lrc in f'ulurc duction talents to names like Cibo Mato. musi(' magazirw intPrviews. "So ... How's Dr. Octagon. DJ Shadow and John Your (iirl" by Handsome-Boy Mod(\ling Sp1mrer·s Blurs Explosion. Together. these School. Liw rollaboralivfi nfforL of Dan "tlrn two men are Ilandsome Boy Modeling Aut.omator" and production genius Prine!' School. a duo that has crPalNI sonwthing l'nul. is rnw ot'tl10sP albums. truly unique. 
Owr tlH• last y(•ar· it has torn uµ llw C:VU The album starts wilh the song "Rock ·n · album charts and bP('llnJP a r)('rmarnmt lix­!foll rr.011/d nerer hip hop likr' this)" which tUI'(' on t.lw hip-hop lOp 2:i countdown. s1\ts the stage for tlrn album a.ncl is oddly Combining gr!'at sampling. blw•s and ro!'k reminiscent of some of the BeastiP-Hoys instrunwnt,1ls. l<'chno bPals and divf'rsP inslrum1mtals from "fll Communirat.ions." vol'als. Llw album cannot b1• simply limitml Thn secontl track. "Magnetizing." is what to t.lw gr•11rP of rap music. hoWC'VPr. That gained IIBMS attention -and justifiably would not do justicf' to thf' hypnotic music so. A song" with inventive tempo r.hanges and tlw talPnh'd all-star cast of people that and the smoolh vocal stylings of' Del the IPnd thPir crafts to this disc. Funkee 1-lomosapien serves as the bands 
Question: What do tlw lkastie Boys. FinP hip-hopmanifosto. Track 5, "Waterworld," Young Cannibals. Cyprnss I Iii!. Wu-Tang answers the high rap standards set by Clan. tlw El'ls. Evt>rlast. tlw Cravl'diggaz. /\ ".'vfagneti::,ing" by demonstrating the tal­
ents of lyricist 
Encore. The song also So ... How's Your Girl 
makes effec­tive use of Handsome Boy water sam­pling that r.re­
Modeling School ates the drea­ry mood for Tommy Boy the song. Records This mood rnntinues into the song
Rating "Once /I.gain." 
which shows the electronic
........ 
musil' back­ground of 
UPCOMING CONCERTS 
South Bend  
Local H  Heartland  Apr. 21  
Indianapolis  
Nine Inch Nalils  Conseco  Apr. 10  
Oasis  Murai  Apr. 12  
HISS  Deercreek  Nay 20  
Tina Turner  Conseco  Nay 26  
Dave Matthews  Deer Creek  Jun. 12-23  
Ricky Nanin  Conseco  July 05  
Red Hot Chili Peppers  Deercreek  July 07  
Chicago  
Widespread Panic  81CPavmon  Apr. 18  
N•ne Inch Nails  VIC PaYHlion  Apr. 21  
Yjolent Femmes  Riviera  Apr. 21  
Stroke 9  House of Blues  Apr. 25  
Static X  House of Blues  Apr. 26  
Hllne Inch Nails Pat McGee Band  VIC PavilHon House of Blues  Apr. 26 Apr. ta  
Los Lobos  Riviera  Nay 05  
Insane Clown Posse  Ri,riera  May 06  
Dropkick Murphy•s  Vic Theater  Hay 20  
Fishlllone  House of Blues  May ti  
Ray Charles  House of Blues  Jun. 16  
Blues Tra•eler  Metro  Jun. 18  
Rllcky Hartin  United Center  July 01  

Court.esy of ticketmasier.com 


, Dan the Automator. This song will remind vou of tho Gravetliggaz, and it is made bv the creative vocils of Grand Puba and the sampling in the chorus from thr. llHee Dog Night hit "Old Fashioned luve 
Song" 
"71ie Projects" is another great track because of its burmonica instrumentals and rhymes from Dave ofDe La Soul. 
Jazz pours out of the song "The Truth," which fea­
Handsome Boy Modeling School, the collaboration of Dan 
tures Eryka Badu. 
"the Automator" Nakamura (left) and Prince Paul, has made 
A first-hand 
a name for itself within the current hip-hop community.
account of how one can't hide from the truth. this song will make people wonder what exactly the song is all about and wear out the repeat button on their stereo. 
DJ shadow enters the scene on the song "Holy Calamity." The track. which also features DJ Quest. is a song that is the defi­nition of good crossover music. It has a chorus reminiscent of both '70s funk and '80s breakdan!'e musk. In addition. it is just another great DJ Shadow song. 
The album gets most creative on the song "Sunshine... featuring the vocals of Beatles legend's son, Sean Lennon. Then it strangely mixes it with samples from the old "Saturday Night U11e" charar,ter, FathPr Guido Sarducci. You know the pro­ducers are talented when thev r,an make a line like, "Forget about your sorrows. life is but a shadow without your sunshine" sound good. Finally, there is the song "Megaton B-Boy 2000," which features Alec Empire. This song can best be desc:ribed as Atari Teenage !Hot meets Mos Def. 
This album is not without l1aw. however. The songs "Metaphysical." "Look at this Face" and "Modeling Sucks" are -at b()st -forgettable. "The Rumray Song," featur­ing rising techno star Kid Koala. is down­right horrible. This may not necessarily be a great closing. but the album is something that you should consider buying. 
"So ... How's Your Girl" has been around l'or about nine months now. so it is not new. but it has been unappreciatPd in the music world. I[' you like rrt1ativity in music you should consider getting this album. It is sure to be remembered by music junkies !'or a long time. 
NEW RELEASES 
Today 

Pink Floyd -Is There Anybody Ou-t There1 The Wall LiYe Tracy Bonham .. Down Here The Flys -Ou1:1:a Ny way 
April 25 

Neil.Youns -Sliver and Gold Toni Braxton -The Hea-t Cypress HUI-Skull& Bones Nya • Fear of Flyina 
May2 

"i&h-C:y Mighty Boss-C:ones • Pay A1:-C:ention Ween -White Pepper Primal Scream.-XTRNIITR 
May9 

·Hansoni•iiTflis•Time Around BHly Joel ...c;Tht1NiHencum concert Mandy Moore • 'i"Wanria Be Wi-th You 
Couriesy ....waHolso.-nd.com 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 18, 2000 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Oakland holds Boston to four hits, split series 


Associated Pres• 
Gil Heredia. and two relievers com­bined on a four-hitter, and John Jaha had an RBI single in the sixth inning as the Oakland Athletics beat the Boston Red Sox 1-0 on Monday. 
Olmr,do Saenz WPnt 3-for-3 with two singles and a double for the Athletics. who split the four-game series by win­ning the annual Patriot's Day game in Boston. 
HerPdia ( 1-1 l. who escapc1d a one-out. bases-loaded jam in the fourth inning, allowed three hits, three walks and struck out four. He gave up a single to Brian Daubach and a double to Nomar Garciaparra in thP-fourth. The other hit was Jason Yaritck's third-inning single. 
Doug Jones allowed one hit in the eighth and Jason Isringhausen pitched a hitless ninth !'or his second save. 
Jeff fassero (1-1) allowed one run and eight hits in 5 1-3 innings to get the tough-lurk loss. 
Oakland broke through in the sixth when Saenz led off with a double and scored on Jaha's grounder up the mid­dle that got under the outstn~tched glove of Garriaparra at shortstop. 
Both teams squandered early chances. The Athletics loaded the bases in the first and third innings without scoring, whilfl Boston did it in the fourth. 
Oakland opened the game with three singles and a walk, but was held with­out a run because Byan Christenson was cut down at the plate by left fielder Oarrcn Lewis. and Jeremy Giambi grounded into an inning-ending double play. 
In the third. the top three Athletics' hitters singh1d again. afwr Eric Chavez struck out. This time. Christenson was pkked off second and Jeremy Giambi struck out with the bases loaded. 
Yankees 5, Rangers 4 
Tino Martinez tied the game with an RBI single in the ninth and won it with a run-scoring hit in the 11th and the New York Yankees held on for a wild win over the Texas Rangers. 
The Yankees, who were held hitless into the seventh inning, blew a lead in the 10th and nearly did again in the 11th before getting a favorable call from home plate umpire Jeff Kellogg. 
With the bases loaded and no outs. Luis Alicea appeared to foul a ball off his foot. The ball rolled in front of the plate and Kellogg ruled it a fair ball. Catcher Jorge Posada picked it up, stepped on home and tagged Alicea for a double play. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Erdos then got Scotl Sheldon to ground out to end the game and cam his first career save. 
The Yankees. who swept a two-game series against the Rangers last week. have won 34 of' the last 4G games against the Bangers since the opening game of their 1996 playoff series. 
The Yankees also swept the Hangers out of the AL playof1s the last two Sl'a­sons, allowing only Lwo runs in the six games. 
Martinez's single to right !fold witl1 one out in the 11th sr,ored Derek .Jeter, who led off the inning with a singlP-off Tim Crabtree (0-1 ). 
Martinez had lied the ganrn in tlrn ninth off John Wfitteland, who blf'w his second straight sav(~ after converting 18 straight. 
Posada led off tho 10th inning for tho Yankees with a solo honrn run of!' Crabtree. 
Texas got the run back in the bottom half against Mariano Rivera (l-Ol. Hoyrn Clayt<in led off with a single. movc~d to second on a sacrifice bunt and scored on a single by Ivan Rodrigm,z. 
Bangers starter Darren Olivn pitched 6 1-3 no-hit innings bel'ore Paul (}'Neill's bloop single to left with one out in the seventh. Bernie Williams l'ollowed with his third homer to tic the game at 2. 
Oliver struck out six and walkPd one in eight innings. but ended with his third straight no-decision. 
Rafael Palmeiro·s two-out homer off Mike Stanton broke a 2-2 tie in the eighth inning. 
Yankees starter David Cone got his second straight no decision against the Bangers, leaving after allowing two runs and five hits in seven innings. 
Blue Jays 7, Angels 1 

Kelvim Escobar pitched eight strong innings as Toronto recovered from its worst pitching weekend ever to beat the Anaheim Angels. 
Brad Fullmer hit a grand slam and Raul Mondesi hit a solo homer for the Blue Jays, who snapped a three-game skid. 
Toronto allowed 47 runs in a three­game sweep by the Seattle Mariners over the weekend -the most runs allowed in any three-game stretch in team history. 
Manager Jim Fregosi held a "heated" pitchers only meeting before the game and Escobar {1-2) got the message. The 24-year old settled down after escaping a first-inning based loaded jam on Garret Anderson's double play grounder. He allowed eight hits and two 
Full-lime temporary maintenance position available. Some experi-NOTICES ence necessary. 
. THE COPY SHOP Please call 272-1441 for a confi-LaFortune Student Center dential interview. Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid SUMMER JOB: Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Caregiver: two children, ages 7 &8. Sat: Noon-6:00pm Mon•Frl,7:30AM-3:15PM. Jun 12­Sun: Noon-Mid Aug 18 Granger. Free Pick-Up & Oefiveryl 
Call 272-6107 or 284-3485 Call 631-COPY We're open fate so your order will Summer Server Needed for Child be done on time! Care Dunng Summar 
The University of Notre Dame Granger (near UP mall) family invites PUBLIC PARTICIPATION in needs college student to care for 13 developing a WELLHEAD PRO-yr old girl and 7 yr. old boy TECTION PLAN. Thursday, April Transportation required. Must have 20, 2000 at 2pm Facilities Building. raterence. non-smoking and experi-Questions concerning the meeting enced wtth children. This 1s a should be directed 10 !he University Christian family with professional of Noire Dame, Utilities Department parents and good references are (219)631 ·6594 available. Should enjoy outdoor 
activities -tennis. sw1mm1ng, biking, 
etc. Can provide some flexibility as 
to dates. Compensation based on experience 

Babysitter for 2 kids. Evenings 
WANTED 
PROFESSOR SEEKS SUMMER NANNY FOR ENERGETIC 4-YR OLD BOY. MUST LIKE HORSES ANO HORSESHOWS. WEEK­ENDS CALL PROF MILLER AT 631-4133. STIPEND PLUS EXPENSES. 
You've got approximately 45 years ol work ahead of you. You may as well do something you love now. Be a Student Brand Manager repre­senting Red Bull on campus next fall. Throw parties, got to all the hot spots, build a great resume. E-mail Rob Koller at Rob.Kollar@redbull­us.com 
FOR RENT 
APARTMENT FOR SUMMER SUB­LEASE1 College Park -2 bedrooms, fur­nished Call 243-8194 
NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND GOOD AREA 277-3097 
apporx. 4·9:30. Nights vary. Need child care in Granger home. RENTAL HOUSES FOR 4·6 STU­Transpor1a11on a must. 15 hr/wk. Summer. DENTS WITH LARGE ROOMS. W&D. Please call 287 -6352. Call Kalie 271-1935. 291-2209 
walks. 
Mondesi. who went 2-for-4 with two runs scored. homered off Mark Petkovsek in the eighth inning to give Toronto a 3-1 lead. After Petkovsek loaded the bases, Lou Pote relieved and gave up Fullmer's second career grand slam.. 
Anaheim starter Hamon Ortiz 11 -1) balked in a run with the bases loaded in the fifth inning, 
A base running mistake cost Anaheim a chance to take the lead in the sixth inning. 
After Mo Vaughn led off with a dou­ble, Anderson hit what looked to be an HBI single. but Vaughn missed the bag at third. After the ball was thrown bar.k into the infield, Escobar threw to third baseman Tony Batista for the out. 

Anaheim manager Mike Scioscia ran from the dugout to argue with third base umpire Hick Recd. but Heed point­ed to the dirt where. Vaughn's foot prints were. Scioscia immediatP-ly jogged back to his seat. 
Toronto took a 2-1 lead in the bottom of the sixth on consecutive doublos by Mondesi and Carlos Delgado. 
Ortiz, pitching with a slight tear in his pitr,hing shoulder. allowed two runs and live hits in 5 1-3 innings. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.Ill. ro 3 r,lll, at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must he prepaid. The c;harge is 3 cents per charauer per day, induding all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for rnnrent without issuing refunds. 
LARGE 6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 FULL BATHS & BASEMENT. UTILITIES. INC. $400/ROOM. 247-9809 
SUMMER SULET · Beautiful 1 Bedroom FULLY Furnish Apartment. Central air conditioning. On Grape Road. $360/mo or best offer. 
Call Eric 254-9782 
3 bedroom duplex, Appliances, W/D, 1 mile from campus, 273-8332 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed­room, $1000/month 2) 2-bedroom. $500/month We'll make almost any changes to the houses. 
Call Bill at 675-0776 
Do you want to live in Turtle Creek the next year? 
Call Angela 272-2207 SUMMER SUBLEASE Yeah, I am jusl playing hockey until 2 Bdrm. 2 Bath, furnished, very my band gels back together ­close to campus, Chris 'The Goon· Simon 243-2601. 

SWEEP! 

hey dork, PERSONAL i don't owe you a thing. 
FULL COLOR laura i'm going to win. you don't Copying stand a chance Printing Scanning thanks for getting me water !hough 
i appreciate it THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center hey E, Call 631-COPY what's up? how's school treating 
you? i hop you're having a great WANTEO:Cute blonde Mushroom. da.y. talk to you soon' 
Hey. Mrs. Brendan Shanahan,  i really need to fill these  
here 1s your classified!!! Redwings won last night! Tigger and Piglet -did I tell you guys you rock in a big way?? You do.  it's like WHOA must beal Laura when i beat Laura it's gonna be like WHOA  

FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, PR!-Rm 115-hello Erin VATE BATH, PRIVATE KITCHEN, is it legal that the two smartest and it's me again. check 11 out. two LAUNDRY. PHONE, 5 MIN. N. OF most good-looking girls are rooming classifieds in one day. how about CAMPUS together? that. 
272-0615 Doobie Doobie Doo goodnight 
.,-· 

Tuesday, April J8, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS 
page 13 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Owners approve sale of Royals to Glass for $96 Dlillion 
Associated Press 
Basdiall owners voted unani­mously Monday to approwi Lhf' $96 million sale of lhc Kansas 


You know us -great mem­bership program, great website -Student Advantage is completely focused an college stu• dents. We're ready to put your energy and your desire to be in the spot­light to worl<! You'll pro­mote what we have to offer on campus. It doe~n•t get much better than this: great job right on campus, good pay, bonuses. oppor­tunities to build skills (e­commerce/marketing), flex­ibility to work your own hours*, and did we men­tion free stuff? 
Apply online at 
WWW. 
studentadvantage. com/textbooks.com 
*For the first few weeks of the semester/quarter, you'll work 25 hrs/wk. After that, only 70 hrs/wk. 

City Hoyals to tPam r,hairman 
victuals and companies, with a sense of fulfillment. ... It's a David Glass. the money earmarked for char­very happy day for me person­Glass took over as Rovals ity. 
ally, for major league baseball,

chairman in September 1993, 
''Hopefully, somewhere, for people in Kansas City." 
slrnrtlv after the dealh of found­David, Ewing Kauffman is as Last September, baseball ing ownP-r Ewing Kauffman. happy as WR arc with David 
owners refused to approve a "It's been a long time com­Glass getting control of the proposed $75 million purchaseing," Glass said. Rovals," commissioner Bud by New York lawyer Miles Under Kauffman's sur.cession Selig told Glass at a p-ost-moet­Prentice. plan. the team was offered for ing news conference. "I really 
Glass, the former chief execu­sale lo Kansas Cily-area indi-feel on behalf of baseball today tive officer of Wal-Mart Stores 

Advisory Board 
Students, faculty and staff interested in serving on 
this board must fill out an Application, available at 
the RecSports Office, by Tuesday, April 25, 2000 
The purpose of the RecSports Advisory Board is to foster communicat_ion wit~ campus recreation users in order to seek their advice and assistance in maxi­mizing the effective use of resources for recreation at the Uni~ersity of Notre Dame. The objectives of this board are to: 1) Create a board with broad repre­sentation of users, 2) provide a mechanism for the campus population to voice the concerns and interests regarding recreational programs, facilities and ser­vices and 3) Provide feedback and insight for RecSports planning, operations and initiatives. Members are appointed for a one year term, consisting of 4 meetings. 
RecSports Office, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Inc., then re-entered the bid­
ding. Ile said the Royals will be 
run a little differently once he's 
tho owner, not just the chair­
man. 
"We probably have fewer dol­
lars committed heyond this 
year than any other team in 
baseball," he said. "That was 
sort of deferring for the person 
who owns the team so they can 
make that decision." 
Before discussing realign­
ment and the Royals, owners 
had a bigger concern Monday. 
"What's the market doing?" 
more than one asked in the 
hallway. 
It immediately became clear 
them would be no vote on 
realignment until June at the 
earliest: 
Selig has floated a plan that would shift Arizona from the NL West to the AL West and move Tampa f3ay from the AL East to the National League. In addition, it's possible the Al. could have four teams in the Wost and East, but six in the Central. And, the NL could junk the wild card and go to four four-team divisions. 
Prospects of a six-team AL Central has caused most of the controversy. 
"It makes no sense," said Herman, whose team would be in that division. "If everybody else has four. why shouldn't I have four? Just use your com­mon sense. That doesn't always work in baseball." 
Some owners don't want to get rid of the wild card in the NL because it keeps more teams in contention until late in the season. 


Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 

271-0300 
Call today and 11am-2am sun-thurs mention this ad!! 11am-3am fri-sat 

p::i.ge 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 18, 2000 
CLUB SPORTS 
Men's Varsity 4 takes gold medal 
Special to The Observer 
Competing in the Southern lnterrollegiate Rowing Association Championships at Oak Ridge. Tenn .. the men's rowing club distinguishf'd itsl"lf in all events. 
The Varsity 4 defeated 23 otlwr univPrsilies in rapturing the gold medal with a Lime of 
6:57. c;,,orgia Tech. UTC. Virginia. Marquette and Texas followed in that order. The frish Novire 8 advanced to the sernil'inals where they won ,l lane to compete in the Petite finals. 
In the finals. the Irish placed fourth with a time of 6:40. less than three seconds behind champion Emery's 6:37.2. The JV 4 boat advanced to tht> final heat. where they won the Bronze m•~dal, finishing b1:hind Virginia and UTC, and ahPad of Purdue and Clemson. 
This weekend. the Irish will compete in the Midwestern 
Championships University of Madison.  at Wisco the nsin.  
Ultimate  

The men ·s and women's teams both advanced to the Midwest Regionals when the men captured the Sectional Championships and the women placed second. The men swept the field. defeating U. Chicago, 13-0; Ruso Hulman. 13-1; Northwestern. 13-8 and Ball State. 13-<J to advanr,e to the 
quarterfinals. In the q~artcrs. Brian Hichardson's 70 yard scoring buck to Frank Helgesen highlighted a 13-8 vktory ovAr Northern Illinois. Chris Fuch and Mike Shiel pAr­formf'd notably throughout the tournament, including the repeat 13-8 win over Northwestern in tlrn semilinals. In the finals. the Irish toppled top seed Illinois, 15-6, behind the standout play of David Pickett. 
Thf' women opened with their first shutout of the sea­s n n. 13-0 over BradlPy, as Bache! Kelly and Angela Bauer set the tone for the wer,kcnd with great play. Arter drop­ping -the second game to Northwestern 12-8, the Irish rebounded with a 9-4 win over rival Purdue, as Lois Donovan, Ali l!Ptlrick and Monica Kerrshner starred In the win. 
Af'tcr defeating Chicago 13-4. the club fell to evPntual cham­pion Illinois. Needing a win in its final contest. the Irish rode the zone defense of Laura Banasvnchsky, Mia Steffen and Jenny Wellman to defeat Indiana 10-9. 
Women's Water Polo 
Stepping up in play against Big 10 competition, including some varsity programs, the club not only distinguished itself with competitive play throughout the weekend, but scored upset victories over both Northwestern and Illinois in the Midwest Regionals. The Irish lost tlw op,rning two rounds to nventual champion Indiana. 19-7: and third plact1 finisher Michigan State. 7-2. 

Undaunted. thn Irish bounc:ed back with a drnrnatic 1 1-8 overtime win over Illinois. and edged Northwestern, 5-4 Lo place f'iJ'Lh in tho tourna­mPnt, ahead of Ohio Stat,• and Wisconsin. Val SinHJllt\ gar­lHWed honorablo mention hon­ors in the all-tournament. team. 
Cycling 
Pat Cloud and Jeff Smoke ol' thn Cycling Club distinguished themselves at tlw time trials held in Indianapolis at l)p,l'auw University. The two Irish rac­ers finished among the Lop 40, 11th and 16th respectively. This weckenu, lndiann will host tho Bogional Hoad Hace Championships. 
Bowling 
Tho Bowling Club came up one individual win short of qualifying for the finals at the ACU-1 National Championships in Omaha, Neb.. this weekend. Led by Kovin GertkPn 's 611 seri<'s and Darren Kraft's S9:~. the Irish finished 16th in a very strong field. 
Team highlights included stunning victories ovor Lindenwood and Kansas. two of' the top four seeded teams. In each vidory an Irish kegler rolled a 267 game, which proved lo be the club's best showing of' the yt1ar. 
SOFTBALL 

Myers, Sharron honored by Big East 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame softball ptaynrs .Jarrah Myers and Jnnnif'er Sharron wern honored by tlrn Big East Confcrencn Monday for their 
pnrfor­mances in the team's snvcn games last week. 
A sopho­m o r c catcher. 

M v 11 r s Myers nar~Hid Big East player or the W<\ck hon­ors. while Sharron was nanrnd llw Big East pitclwr or thn week for tlw second straight lime. 
Mycrs hit .:rn1 with three homo runs and srwen BBi as the Irish went 5-2 last week. Myers also posted l'ivn runs scor<!d, a tripln and a .902 slugging percnntagn in thn contests. Mvers w11nt 3-f'or-6 with throe ·runs scored and two HBI in the doubleheader against Buller Wednnsday. Shn also knocked a two-run shot 

friends dt:.»H7 t let friends drive drun" 
l'or her fifth homt• run ol' thP s1-mson. 
On Saturday, she blasl<'d lwr second home run ol' thr wed; to tin the game at 2-2 in thr team's extra-inning loss lo Boston Collcg<'. Against Loyola Sunday, tlw 1999 Big East Bookit\ of' tlw year went 2-for­:l at thn plate. including hc,r third lwml' run of' llw W<'<'k, which tind hnr for the• team lnad with S(~V<'n in 2000. This is My•~rs· first Wt>Pkly honor or tlrn ynar. 
Sharron earns lrnr sPcorHI Big East pitcher of' tlw WC<'k honor in as many WPeks. Tlw southpaw went 3-1 in f'our appnaranr.cs, logging a (U10 earrwd-run avPragP and allow­ing just two runs in 23.1 innings, while striking out :H. Sharron rPcordnd bac· k-to­back games with 10 strikeouts in wins against But!Pr and [)ePaul and tlwn blankPd con­fp,renr.11 rival Boston CollPg<' Saturdav. 7-0. 
Tho i"8th-rank1)d Irish will bt1 back in action todav !"or a non-conf'ernnro doublt>iwadPr against thP visiting Indiana Stale SycarnorPs at 4 p.m. 

Tuesday, April l 8, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
BOSTON MARATHON 
Associated Press 
First, it was the Kenvan men. Now. the women are· winning the Boston l\1arathon. 
Konya·s domination in 13oslon extrmded to a rnc-ord 10 consec-­uliv11 vinories Monday, as Elijah Lagal outkickod Ethiopia's Gnzalrnnge Abera and Kenya's Mos(is Tanui in the dosest fin­ish in thn ram's Hl4-year histo­ry. 
Lagat and Abera wNe both tinwd in 2 hours, 9 minutes, 47 srn:onds. with Tanui three sec­onds back. 
The womnn's nnding wasn't as clost' but it was still thr, same: /\ Kenyan wearing the laurel wreath. 
Calherine Ndernba. compet­ing in only h1)r third marathon, pullml away in tlrn final mil,~ and b1iramc Uw first Kenyan wi111rnr, at 2:2(i:11. Ndcreba thwart('d tlw bid or Ethiopia's Fatuma Hoba to ber.ome the 
first cornpelilor  - male  or  
l'nmalP  - to win the  race four  
consocutive tinrns.  

Tim struggling noba finished third at 2:2fr27, th1~ same time as runner-up Irina Rogacheva of' Kyrgyzstan, who came from behind and beat her in the final stride. 
Like the men, the women's finish was the closest ever between the top two and among the top three runners. 
''I'm not only happy to win. but I'm going to the Olympics and represent my country," said Lagat, who took up running professionally only after his dodor told him in J992 that he had a heart condition and might die. 
With this race being an Olympic qualifier for the Kenyan men's Olympic team, l.agat and Tanui named placos on the squad, joining Kenneth Cheruyiot, winner of Sunday's Rotterdam Marathon. 
The 33-year-old Lagat said his doctor warned him that he had a lot of fat around his heart and urged him to lose weight. J\.t the time, he weighed 158 1-2 pounds. Now, he weighs 125 1­2. 
''Afler I started running, my hearl problem disappeared," he said 'Tm OK now." 

Make that sensational. 
Staying with the lead pack througlrnut the race that was slowed by lrnadwinds and cold, the persistent Lagat came into the tinal stretch locked in a dra­m a tic duel with Ab era and Tanui, the 1996 and 1998 win­ner. 
The three exchanged the lead a couple of times, and with less than a half-mile remaining, it appeared Tanui would go on to his third victory. 
But Lagat was not to be denied, and his final surge enahled him to edge the charg­ing Abera as Tanui faded. 
Abera, running on his 22nd 
hirthday,  c-ontended  the  
Kenyans  were  kicking  and  
pushing him.  

"I can't say it was intention­al," he said, "but it was a strain on my muscles." 
Tanui, the must experienced runner in the men's elite field, admitted he made his move too early. 
"Everybody gets to make a mistake, and that was my mis­take," the 34-year-old Kenyan said. "l felt strong at the 1md, 
~~:a::a;iii;lii:Jiii:a::a;iii;li=a::a::aiiiiii=a:iii:ii====~====iii:ii====:;:;=;::;;:;;::;~;;;;;;:a::a~;::;;:;;::;~iill:iil:===~~• 
"Will and I" An Evening with Michael York 
A One Man Show based on a lifetime ofPerformances ofthe Works of William Shakespeare 
April 27th at 7:30pm in the Jordan Auditorium 
General Admission $20 Students $12 

Box Office (219) 631-8128 limited Tickets Available 
Formal attire required 

Sponsored by the Summer Shakespeare Program 
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL 

•
TODHY! us. Chicago St. {DH) 5:00pm 

Eck Stadium -All students free! 
but I was too nervous." 
The victory was the third of' Lagat's career. He won the 1997 Berlin Marathon in a career-best 2:07;41 and the 1998 Prague Marathon at 
2:08:52. In his previous marathon, he finished sixth at New York in November. 
The 1999 Boston and New York winner, Joseph Chebet of Ken ya, finish e d eighth at 2:12:20. 
Overall, Kenyans took seven of the top lO places. Their win­ning streak began in 1991 with Ibrahim Hussein. The last non­Kenyan winner was Seoul Olympic champion Gelindo Bordin of Italy in 1990. 
Jamie Hibell, of Bethlehem, Pa., was the top American fin­isher, arriving 24th with a time of 2:22:09. 
ine Ndereba, Keµya 
.--~~::-v. 
ndPlace 
'ga,cheva, 
n 
Third Place 
t-Ym~iRobf;l, $ E:thibpia . "1 

Nd.ereba, a 27-year-old moth­er of a 2-year-old girl, was not among the leaders early but began reeling in them after the halfway point en route to her first marathon victory. 
"I had confidence that I was going to do the last half in less than 73 minutes," she said. "I have a best time of 69 minutes for the half-marathon. I had confidence I could do it in 1 :10." 
Nevertheless. Ndereba, who was sixth in her Boston debut last year and second at New York six months ago, didn't think she could end Roba's magnificent reign. 
"To beat her was something I did not expect," she said. 
Tears streamed down Ndereba's face during the play­ing of the Kenyan national anthem after the race. 
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! 
Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 2001-2001. 
All first year students, sophomore~ and especially juniors 
interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the 
informational meeting with Professor Alain Toumayan 
Tuesday evenini, April 2), 2000 at o:00 pm in room Bo DeBartolo 

-----------------------------------------,  
page 16  The Observer . SPORTS  Tuesday, April 18, 2000  
. BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXIX  

Murphy's battle with leukemia motivates Drivin' 
Bv KATHLEEN O'BRIEN ~sociate Sporrs Editor 
The most important member of the Bookstore Basketball team Orivin' won't even set foot on the court. He'll f'ar,p a muC'h tougher challenge today than 
goinl-{ up 
against the 
!'Jo. 4 
ranked 

Murphy
Franchise 
squad. 
Sophomore Conor Murphy. the missing nmmbcr of Drivin', will receive a bone marrow lrans­p Iant today to <:ombat his leukemia. \,Vhiie Murphy lights for his life. his Zahm llall bud­dies fight in his honor to advance to the round of 64 in Bookstore Basketball. 
Wes Jarobs, Gabe IbanPz. NatP OeNicola. John LeBlanc and StPve NaplPton named their team Drivin' in reference to thr. bone marrow drive Notre Dame held last month to find a match for Murphy. And when Murphy lost his hair due to radiation and chemotherapy treatment. the live guys un Drivin' shaved their heads to keep Murphy with them on the court. 

"Shaving the heads was my idea," NaplPton said, 
"If shaving our heads helps him in any way, then we're happy t.o do it," DeNicola said. 
In the first round of the tour­ney, Drivin' also wore hospital gowns with their shorts, despite 35-degroe temprraLures, 
It easily advanced through the first two rounds. aware that the pushover 1-{ames would end when they faced a top-ranked foe at 5 p.m. today at Stepan. But the team also knows its competition is nothing compared to what their friend must defeat. 
Murphy's optimism amazes his former roommates. Despite illness and hospitalization resulting from his leukemia trm1tment. he continues to kr,ep high spirits. 
"It's amazing how strong Im is." said Jacobs. who lived with Murphy last semester. said. 
,Ll 0 
C 3 
ID 
~ 

-;;, 
0 :::,£.
.r:::: 
~ 
N 

"S LOW :D 
.r:::: 

0 a
·2 :::, 
:::, 

£ 
~ 

C <ii. 
~ :::,
::,
CD D>
STUDENT ~ 
OJ 
'E It! D> 0. 
~ 
S:'l,
*E 

< -0 
8 0 IC o3 C 
E AIRFARES C < 
ID 
E :E 
D> 
.r:::: 

3:
I 0 C Europe •Africa •Asia •South America I ~ a, More Than 100 Departure Cities! il
:a> 
.r:::: 
C 
~ 

(.) Eurailpasses •Bus Passes •Study Abroad J
0 

CD 3: 
0 ~
z 
1/) 5: 
OJ 
~ 

~ 
C le. :zi ::,0 
:::, ll)
ec=• 
studentuniverse Ci •co,n C g 
0 IT'S YOUR WORLD_ EXPLORE ff_

'O ~ 
0 C: ::c· ..J c,_ 
0
0 ;:;
C) ll) <'Cl :::, 
E 
:::, 
(I) 
<'Cl 

en "' g
www.StudentUniverse.com

<'Cl .a
E 

'.J a, 
2'. 
~ 

< :c 0::,
U) 

IC C 
0 

800-272-9676 CJ 
Cl> s
::, ::, en IC 
Lessons That Will Last A Lifetime. 

OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Put that college degree to use by enrolling into the Air Force Officer Training School. Upon successful completion of the Officer Training School, you will become a commissioned Air Force officer with earned respect and benefits like -great starting pay, medical and 
dental care, management and travel AIM HIGH opportunities. For more on how to qualify and get your career soaring with the
-A1R-11ir.......__ 
Air Force Officer Training School, call
-FORC1·r--­

1-800-423-USAF. or visit our website at www.airforce.com 
wwwairforce .com 

The whole crew of Zahm resi­dents keep in touch with Murphy regularly by phone and email. 
He came to visit them at Notre Dame last week between bouts with radiation and drnmnthera­py, 
Murphy refused to admit the 
strain  placed  on  him  by  
leukemia.  
"Hadiation  was  weak."  
Murphy wrote iii an  E-mail to  

his friends over tlrn weekend. 
Although none of' Murphy's fomi!y mr.mbers proved eligible to donate their bone marrow to him, an anonymous match was found 
Murphy has been receiving chemotherapy since Sunday in 
preparation for today's trans­that. weekly testing will contin­plant. ue to monitor Murphy's progress 
I\iether Murphy nor the donor on the road to rec,overy. Murphy will know who the other is until plans to return to school in thP a year after fall afwr his 
the trans­"If shaving our heads rPCOVPry is plant. This is helps him in anyway, r.ompletr. 
done to pro­

then we're happy
lf1r,t the latter against feeling to do it." guilty ii' the transplant 
Nate DeNicola
rails, 
Drivin'
"Thev'rn introducP.d a 
So wh ilc• thn members or Drivin' match up against J7ra11c:hise this a!h~rnoon, their minds may stray Lo a hospi­

yeM later," Ibanez said. "Ik tal room whom t!rnir l'ri<'ncJ, !Murphy! was in good spirits roommatr and 1999 BookstorP lately." teammate !ios undnrgoing tlw 
If all goes well. recovery l'rom biggest struggle or his !ii(,, the bone marrow transplant "lie knows we'rp thinking takes about eight wer,ks. After about him," Jacobs said. 
NEW PANCAKE-MINIS™-JUST 9 9 ¢ I EAT A DELICIOUS BREAKFAST ON YOUR WAY TO WORK WITHOUT WEARING IT I 
DELICIOUS, SILVER-DOLLAR SIZED PANCAKE-MINIS~ INTRODUCING GREAT-TASTING, BUTfERMILK PANCAKE-MINIS~JHEY'RE THE PERFECT SIZE FOR DIPPING WITHOUT DR!P?ING AS YOU RACE TO WORK, FOR A Lil!!TED TIME, G£T SIX FOR JUST 99¢, ONLY AT BURGER KINS! 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
American '!-le. _axt ~ 

Your brain sends Assoc1aoon•~ 
""O"_,O DI_ _.
~ 
_,.dSroll'•

billions 
HERE ARE A FEW YOU SHOULD

ofmessag 
ALWAYS PAY ATTENTION TO, These 

to your body every second 
are signs of s.troke, or brain attack. 
Get holp lmmedlately_ Get tht, 
messiget? For more Information call 
AHA'S .STROKE CoHNEC:TION AT 
1-800-553-6321 


___ J 
Tuesday, April 18, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
The Notre Dame Semester in Washington 
presents an interactive discussion videoconferenced from Washington., DC 
wi1:h 

1"1a:rk Shields and Bob Novak 
(Erom C:NN's "Capital Gang") 
arguing 

Can ~he Republicans 1Min in November? 
weanesdaY, April 19 
6:30 p.m. 
in COBA 133 
This is an event in the Hanley Lecture Series on Values and Public Policy 
Shay 

continued from page 20 
ners." The Irish sent a small squad to the meet. Tim Kober finished third i.n the 800 meters with a time of 1:49.47, and Luke Watson finished fourth in the 3,000 meter steeplechase, posting a time of 8:51.54. Watson is now the eicrhth ­ranked runner in that event. Matt Tho~pson threw 171 feet 6 inches in the discus, and for the women, freshman Tameisha King notched a second place finish in the long jump with a mark of 19-9. Besides Mt. SAC, some Irish athletes took part in the Pomona-Pitzer Invite at Pomona College on Friday. In that meet Liz Grow turned in an excellent performance in the 400 meters, set­
ting a personal best with her NCAA provisional qualifying time of 53.35 seconds. The time was also the second fastest in school history. 
Freshman .Jamie Volkmer earned a pair of fourth place finishes in the women's pole vault 110-11 3/41 and women's triple jump [:H-6 3/41. Thompson also competed in Pomona placing fourth in the hammer with a throw of 173-7. 
"Some of (the times and distances] were very good," Piane said. "Liz Grow qualified, I'm very pleased with Matt Thompson in the discus and the hammP-r. Luke Watson ran an 8:51 [in the 3,000 meter steeplechase]. he's pretty solid." 
"Our women are pretty solid, and for us the goal now is the Big East [Championships]. Our men traditionally have been in the top three, so we'd surely like to replicate that." 
Got sports? Call Kerry at 1-4543. 
The Women's Resource 
Center is pleased to honor 
Alyssa Hellrung for her 
outstanding contribution 
to the comnunity and the 
inspiration with which 
she enhances so many 
lives. Here is her story: 

I am a senior English arrl Ge7der Studies rrajor frm1 Gai..'1e5Ville, Flori&. arrl I live oo CcnµlS in Breen-Phillii;s Ha.11. M,; father brought: rre to visit Notre Daire d.irirg Rl{ junior 'fffiT of high sch::ol ard I fell in love with the canp..is ard the people. I chose Notre name because of that: encounter and because I want:ed to stut,r in a place where I •.o.ild get a fatulcus echcatioo arrl 1'tlere I could be involved .in a spectacular barrl pr-cgram. 'Ire fact that I "8S raised in a very l:iber­r l hcuseh:ild arrl had just rn1lized l """' " lesbian ciur:in;J ny senior year of higl--. ~ciool did not cross ITTJ' mind c"lS ~te:rit:.ial obsi....:K.l:i.s to rrt: exJ:;Y-"__rieicc here, h.1.t r di=iered clurirg the first. fo,; "'""k" of ..,, first yBaL that this sr..h:;ol is nore ccnservative than I COJ.ld ha.'\.,e ever i.rragir ~,c'! . 
• As ~ freshrren year w::>re on, I :'l'R<le many friends, I tOC)k arra:zing class­es. an:l I becarre .a merober of the Marchir,g, Ja~:,. Concert and Varsity Ba.'1des. I ,,,as b:lth<'red. ha..iever, ~ the horrophobfr atn,:,c;phere and by th<' fact Lhat­there seemed to be, only a fEW ot.he,1· honnsexual people on carrpus and er.at. we all felt crni:e..,led toke$ arr e,e,o.1cuities a se-TE't. I 1-.xiliza:'l that I w,s mt willrrg so hide that part of IT!,'Self fran the frien:l.<s I was l1l'licim. I cculd mt brim "1',1Selt to be disbonest . 
!began spe,aking ab:Jut bamsuruality in the spyirg S"'1este,-nf TI'Y firsl year at t-btre tam?. I gl'IVe a talk m ll\V cbrm airl was very 'M?ll recei•."a'I. After that I joined what v.es thea the (;l.Jl!D/9'!: arid have stayed witt. it .since, servfr,;r as Co-diail' duri11<.J the 1998-199 school year when the group be,:arne known as CVl'reach!'ID. I have also been on the Standing Cmrnittee for Gay '1I1d Lesbian St:trl;nt Needs for three Yffil:S, I have been a ceam leader for the canr,.,s Ministry Retreat for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual. and O.,estioning \Jndergrad.Jate Students a:rrl '!heir Frieocls arxl &q:;portecs for four years, arrl I have given rra..-,y nore r.alks ard presentations as >-ell. I sareh:"'1 la,med. l:o juggle all of this w,.th hm:l rehearsals, .shc;;is w; th the PasqJeri.lla East M.!sical Cctr('.ar.Y in wti.ch I have playoo in the pit orchestra for l>ree yes,..· ard tutorir:g shifts a the Unive:sicy wntu:g Center W1ere. I =l<Bi tlus , ·~r. -.~:,o to thir,k of it, I'm exhaustal! 
It ms all been l,,(],:th it. l ~:m. ~t· q:µ,rtuni•.ies tc st.m:l in fu.nt of audiences ranging from eight to 400 ,;, .,le, NEThOIUC presen:;ations, retreats, or RA Orientatiorcs, and the rrany tines _ iiave been htervie,,e.<l by Cdllpl.lS and lccal p.,blicatim.s, televisicn staLions, or by-srulruts tot ,:lass proja::ts, have~ ext.rarely r""-<iI'dirig learning e:xper iences. l have hootd otlier ywrg gay and les­b\al pa:ple tell l.i'eir stones. I h3,,e met srnie of the n:ost amazing, talented, procicus peqple arr,,where. Anl J lx:µe T ha•.-,, rra~ ut least a srell dic£ereice in the c.ay people think just by being hunest al:out "'~ 1 am and what: it rrean.s to be a humosexua: person at Nv tr" Dame . 
Alyssa Hellnmg Nominated by Sheila Provencher and Michaela Murray-Nolan 
" ... Alyssa has been instrumental in helping make Notre Dame a more welcoming and supportive atmosphere for gay, lesbian, and bisexual students. By committing herself to honesty from the moment she came here as first-year student, she has been a rolemodel for gay and lesbian and bisexual students, a leader in gaining resources and support form the administration, and a leader mong the gay and lesbian student community ...she has given more interviews and talks than she can count --all in the effort to make Notre Dame a more safe and supportive place for sexual minority students. Alyssa is an activist by chance --her activism grew out of a desire not to be noticed. but to simply be honest and speak up when it was needed, in order to help present and future student£ nt Notre Dame. As for how she has helped me, she has simply been an inspiration about what can be... In general she has just been a model and inspiration of what a difference a welcoming ministry can make." -$/.-,eiJ.a, /Jl/,(J.ll8wiwi 
"When I read the eamil asking for nominations for Women of Notre Dame, my first thoguth was: Alyssa Hell rung. Over the past four years, Alyssa has single handedly moved mountains at this school, making it safer and more welcoming community for every gay, lesbian bisexual and questioning student... She provided a supportive atmosphere for so many young and troubled gay students, always with a comforting shoulder and a listening ear, and section talks, using ehr story as a jumping off point for discussion adn questions. She is always honest, always open, always kind... Alyssa came to her role as an activist by accident of coming to ND, and has blossomed, always balancing the need for political change with the greater need for change of the mind and heart. She has not only supported and guided many young gay stu­dents, but also educated and beer, an upstanding representative of our community to the straight student: living hones:ly and with dignity and courage. She is truly a Great Woman of Notre Dame." -;l,11.ch,;;da,)l!~-!Vr,,k--w1, 

-

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 18, 2000 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXIX 
No. 10 Hit Squad advances with 21-15 victory 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Aswci,rn, Sports fa\iw, 
The "X-fartor" helped No. lO Hit Squad perform a num­bnr on its opponent Amazing: (~race and Chur:k to earn a spot in the round of 128 in Bookstoro Basketball. putting lt away 21-15 Mondav. 
Hit s"quad benefits from the athlnticism of three former varsity football players in Joe Ferrer. flaki NP!son and Eric, Chappell. rounded oul by the basketball skills of Trevor Morris and Chris Kitalnng. ThP team's height and physi­cal fitness held off Pat Mitchell. Chuck Kavanagh, Luke Schloegel, Mike Romero and John Lenocker of Amazing Grace and Chuck. 
'"Our diet of beer and ciga­rettes did not pn;parn us for their aihleti-C i S m . 


-
Sr.hloegel  "Our diet ofbeer and  track  right  
said.  cigarettes did not prepare  now.  
Nelson claimed the  us for their athleticism."  ln play  other . by  
final  sr.ore  ranked teams.  
would  have  Luke Schloegel  Jason  "Tank  
been  mur.h  Amazing Grace and Chuck  Ass" Sullivan  
more  decisive  blew  open  a  
had he r.hr,sen  dose game to  
to play  a  little  lead  Please  

defense. Call Me Bosephus past Smell 
"It [the score] was tight the Glove 21-9. because I !et it be tight." With Please Call Me Nelson said. "I was down Bosephus ahead just 9-6. there r.herry-picking. I was Sullivan sr.ored four straight letting him shoot and he could points to break open the scorn. shoot." The five freshmen from Chappell and Nelson am the Alumni and Morrissey ­
Oetfv-el"t~ Tk ffi~t Pizza,! @3©~\l \lfll© ~ . ©~[!! IJC!l©~(fl~~gg  
Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 9 9 the price of yourthe price of your 2 large 1 large 1 topping topping pizzaspizza is the time you cail.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r-------------,Lunch Special1 1 1 Small 1 Topping 1 ND store I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ I $5.99 I N . IL _____________ .J. orth Vil age Mall271-11!77 271-PAPA  

'•-. '9;---------------------------------­

shooters on the tPam. while Morris and Ferrer dominate t\.1e boards and Kilalong clislws out Lhc ball. 
"We've got a rouple guys who can rebound !Morris and Ferreri." Chappell said. "Haki's using his finesse and shooting the j's lj u mpers] I likP to drive and take it to the hole." 
Kitalong and particularly 
!:<errcr stake their claims to be 
the "X-factor" on the squad. 

"They call me the 'X-factor'. ThP. ·x-factor· is this -rm not supposed lo sroro, so when I do score. it's like bonus points," Ferrer said. "These guys {Chappell and Nelson] are lhe Bookstorn leg­Pnds of thP past." 
Defense and speed separate the llit Squad from its opposi­tion. 
"I don't get scored on. I told my players before the game that I don't get sr.orcd on. and I <l id n ·t. N o t o n r: o . " I:< e r re r said. "I want to guard thf' best man -big, small, thin, fat. I want him. I was coming my senior yf'ar to play it all, and I'm starting down that 

Bookstore Results for Monday APril 17,, 2000 
NDToday.com def. Fo_ur Crackers (21-6) 
Team 114 def. Better Late Than Never (21-3) 
Criminal Negligence def. John Tesh Live (21-17) 
Furious D def. If We Only Had Phil (21-19) 
Team 142 def. Team 225 (21-5) 
Sofa King Good def. Everybody Sucks Except... (forfeit) 
Passing Aggressive def. Milan Miracles (21-16) 
Please Call Us Bosephus def. Smell The Glove Careful. .. (21-9) 
Corby's def. Aim High! Oops (21-10) 
Soupi 4 Non Asses def. Red Headed Stepchild (21-12) 
Hit Squad def. Amazing Grace and Chuck (21-15) 
Sullivan. Brian 0stick. Andy Bozzclli. Pat O'Brien and Evan Maher -dcfnnded their No. 26 ranking. All five guys played in high school, and most played together in inter­hall basketball. 
"Wr,'vc br.cn training and working hard for this tourna­ment." Sullivan said. 
Down the stretr.h. Snrnll the Glove. which consists of Jeff Busir.k. Matt Thelen. Tim Wagstaff, Eric Anderson and Mike Cretella. only managed to sr.ore three points. 
The Sorin Hall residonts got buckets from Wagstaff'. Anderson and Busir.k in the second hall'. but they were unable to match tlrn shooting ability of' l'lnase Call M1: Bosephus. 
.... _ -----• 
"We just work it around and try to shoot a lot." Sullivan said. '"We try to get it into our 25-year-old centf'r. Ile's a l'reshman though." 
Please Call Me Boseph us moved on to the round ol' (>4 with the victory. 
No. 28 Furious D warded olT a challenge by If' Wr, Only llad Phil to win 21-19. 
The Fisher Hall rnsidents of If' We Only !lad Phil wr,rn all der.ked out in practicr, jr.rseys of hallmate Martin lngr.lsby. Unfortunately, lngr,lsby, who kept score in the game. wasn't allowed to suit up and join his friends Dan Lee. Mikr, Hogan, Kevin Mr.Gan, Byan Valadez and Keegan Lee. They could have used him. 
"Our shooting at the vnry 
KRIS FORCIER/ The Observer 
end hurt us," Valadez said. 
With the score tied at 17. Furious D hit two straight shots. 
But then the virtorious Dillon llall team of Andr.'w Dayton. Colin Grady, Adam Habig. Jeff Szklarek and Chris Taggart me led of'I' f'ou r straight points after falling behind 19-17. 
Grady knotted th11 score at 
19. then the two teams battlnd back and forth score!Pss for a few trips up and down thP court. Taggart knocked in tlw final two shots to squenzn them through to tlw round of 
64. 
"We need to play better defense than tod,ty." Dayton said. "Tonight WP just couldn't get anything going." 

BECOME A COMIC 


~ ··~·--·------·-----. ... 

Tuesday, April 18, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Yov AC.1'cJALLY 'fALlc: ,o 
T'tlE VI'::,/>, P€09~1. 

Fox TROT 
I NEED FRoDo AND s.a.Mw1SE ON THE SET, PLEASE. 
I 
FRoDo AND SAM? l NE.ED YOU ON THE SET, PLEASE. 
I 

TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
1973. N l~ON'5 PI..AYING PtA~L Jfl.f,t\ L'<RKS .srnu l'( TOWARD CHI -~-R.!; INTE
,o M/\1'.E 5Eo!J!>t, 
/ON I>, ~ 17--Z./>, .> 
-:C WIWN,._ t~T 1r, .. 
0\JH/\ M'( WI\"(! 
0 

BILL AMEND 
0 2000 Sil Amend/Dial. by Lklillrsal PffllS Syndlca1e 
YOU KNOW, 
You MIGHT HAVE ToLD US THAT RooT BEER STAINS 
M1THR1L. 
I 

Professors can't really read all ten pages for every student, right? 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rick Moranis, James Woods, Hayley Mills, Eric Roberts, Conan O'Brien, Melody Thomas Scott 
Happy Birthday: You should con­centrate on the things and the people you love this year. Your greatest joy will come from pursuing what you enjoy the most. You've put too much emphasis on material things in the past, and now it's time to rectify the problems that have arisen. Follow your heart and you won't be sorry. Your numbers: 6, 14, 17, 23, 35, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): It's a great day to be passionate with the one you love. Partnerships can be formulated and deals can be made. Someone you live with may not like your choices. Be diplomatic about your intentions. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You willbe able to get the approval of co­workers. Efficiency coupled with hard work will lead to advancement. You will gain popularity if you are considerate toward others. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This will be a fabulous day to go shop­ping. Children may play an impor­tant role in your life, and doing some­thing special with them will be rewarding. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may have to watch what you say on the home front. Tempers will be close to the surface, and it won't take much to annoy those you live with. 
battle site Make sure you do your share of the52 Bouncer? 

chores.00

60 License's cost
53 "Zip-_-Doo­LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can Dah" 61 Nasty stabilize that partnership you've 
54 Get checkmated campaigning been working on. Make the commit­ment or sign the documents that will lock you into a lasting union. 0000 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Money should be on your mind

are available by touch-tone phone: 
beam. l@nd edu 
EUGENIA LAST 

today. Look toward new positions that will lead to a higher earning bracket. You can make suggestions that will get you in good with the boss.000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You may not be that easY: to ~et along with today. Keep this m rnmd when dealing with both family and associ­ates. You may find yourself spending time alone if you don't. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may want to reflect on your past experiences in order to avoid similar occurrences. This will not be a good day to talk to others about your intentions. 000 · 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Doing things with children will be satisfying and a _real l~~rni~g experience. Your creative ability will surface, and you may discover a talent you didn't realize you had. 
0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): This will not be the day to confront your boss with any problems you might have. It is best to stay out of the way. Make sure you get your work finished before you leave. Con­fusion concerning your personal life will be upsetting. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 

You will pick up valuable informa­tion if you listen to what others have to say. It is best to keep your ideas to yourself, and don't be eager to invest in ideas that aren't your own. 
00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can make money, but not in joint ventures or whimsical schemes. Look for solid long-term investments that will tie up your funds. Then no one can take advantage of your generosity. 000 
1-900-420·5656 (95¢ pee minute). 
Birthday Baby: You have special qualities that will allow you to acco~· Annual subscriptions are available for the plish anything you want. The trick will be to finish w~t you st~. Yo~ drive best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 and determination will help you to be the very best if you don t lose 11\terest 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
in what you are doing. . . . (Need advice? Check out Eugerua's Web sites at astroadv1ce.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) C 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Farmland unit 5 News source of 
old 10 Summer getaway 14 Parade spoiler, perhaps 15 Ready to come off 16 Coloratura's piece 17 Back to being 
friends again? 19 Seasoned sailor 20 Ran into 21 They're 
sometimes fine 22 Choctaw and Chickasaw 24 St. Francis' birthplace 26 Actor James 

27 Humor that doesn't cause a blush? 
33 Do watercolors 36 "_la vista" 37 Suffix with 
project 38 Big concert 
equipment 39 Skin suffixes 40 Worked-up state 41 Kelly's"_ 
Girls" 42 Mildew and 
such 43 Fountain drinks 44 Mentally sound? 47 One with an 
"Esq." tag 48 Zoo showoffs 52 Certain fir 55 Peak in 
Thessaly 57 Author Rita Brown 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
T H E M SASS CDROM H O P E ESTA AROMA 
U N I T T H A N T A M E R 
___._....,_N,..;..S FEND ~;.;.i..;;G;.&.O.;.. F E E S 
58 Hullabaloos 59 Relapsing? 62 _-majeste 63 Norman Vincent 
64 More than suggest 
65 Lascivious look 66 Mexicali mister 67 Batik artisan 
DOWN 1 Sachet quality 2 <;hamps 
Elysees sights 3 Breaks in 
relations 4 Suffix with exist 5 Pastor 6 Dig like a pig 7 Written 
promises 8 Attendance fig., often 9 Goes back to the top 
10 Pit boss's place 11 Riyadh native 12 Track event not 
in the Olympics 13 Praises for pups 18 Word before "a 
prayer" or "a clue" 23 Big Indian 25 Charged particles 26 "Far out, man!" 
28 Writer with an award named after him 
29 Florida's Key 
30 Warm-hearted 31 Essayist's alias 
32 6-2, 5-7, 6-3, etc. 33 Alto 34 Hymn sign-off 35 facto 39 They chase "bunnies" 40 Arrange logically 42 Greek cheese 43 Stiff hairs 45 Sadat's predecessor 46 Like much Jewish food 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

,t)W; 
Ill~lll~'S ll71l1l'J1 Yf)IJ Nl~l~I) 'J1f) l)f): I. llE'I11JllN 1\ (~f))JJ•I..E'J1EI) AI1I1I..I(~1l'l'lf)N '11() llE(~SJ•t)ll'I'S IIY 
J J \Jl.-fJ£'ffl~63'.l•i1iiI"iN 
'I' ,is 2. SE'I1 (JI• JIN IN'l'EllVIEll7 ll'l'11II ..111s@ n:1 l-5f)(j5. 

www.nd.edu/~recspryrt 

Movin' On 
Competition picked up as the Bookstore Basketball field narrowed. Teams are Looking lo earn spots in /.he Round <l 128.

PORTS 
pages 16 & 18 

OfHE page 20 BSERVER 

NFL 

Jackson drafted by Broncos in seventh round 
. Four Notre Dame players sign free agent contracts 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assisr,mt Sporrs Ediror 
It" scvPn ,vasn't Jarious Jackson's favorilP number. it probably is now. 
He wore it on his quarl.erback 
j1~rs1~y for four Vf'ars at Notre Dame and Sunday. and he was chosen bv the Denver Broncos in 

the sev1,ntli Brown and l'inal 
round of"the NFL Draft. 
"Artuallv. I wasn·t !'VPn watching !the draft at first! and now I'm a Bronco," Jackson told the South Bend Tribune Sunday. "I started to get a little nervous, but when I was getting nervous, that's when the phone started ringing." 
'Tm excited f'or him." offen­sive coordinator K1'Vin Rogers said. "He's going to a great orga­nization and it's a situation where he rnn legitimately go in and compete for a job." 
Jackson. a native of Tupelo. Miss.. was the 11th quarterback taken in the draft and the 214th overall selection. Georgia Tech's Joe 1-!amilton was the only quar­terback taken after Jackson. 
After the season, the Broncos released Bubby Brister and lost Chris '.\1iller to retirenrnnt. Former Michigan quarterback !3rian Griese is expected to start for D(•nver and rrcent acquisi­tion Gus r:rerotl(' will most likCT!v be p(mci!Pd in as the backup, btit the third string job is widr opon. 

"Thev are a little unsettlnd at the third quarterback spot. so it's a gn~at opportunity for him," RogMs said. "I think they'll be imprPssed with him too. They will be pleased with how quickly he picks things up. his arm strength and what a quality guy he is." 
Jarkson thrrw f'or more than 4,800 yards and 34 touchdowns as a two-year starter for thr, Irish. Last season. he complrted 184 of 316 passes for a. school­rerord 2,753 yards. 
"I think he knows it's a great situation for him." Hogers said. "lip's excited to go to Dr.nver when' they haw had gnmt suc­c Ass over the past few years. He'll bP working with a quality quartPrback coach in Cary Kubiak and llrnad coach] Mike Shanahan." 
Jackson was the onlv Irish player draftPd this weekc.nd, but other Irish players are looking to pir,k up free agent contracts. 
"H's not much different than the college recruitment process." HogNs said. "'foams arA making an oqjectivA evalua­tion. 1wish something happ<'ned for them. but a lot of the guys did sign free agent deals." 
CornPrbacks Deveron Harper and A'Jani Sanders signed with the Carolina Panthers, while wide rer.eiver Bobby Brown will be doing Lambeau IAaps as a member of the Grren Bay Packers. Safety Deke Cooper signed with the Arizona Cardinals. 


TRACK AND FIELD 

Shay shatters record; qualifies for Olympic trials 
not surprisrd hr, qualif'iPd bncausn By BRIAN BURKE nobody works harder than him." Sporrs Writer 
"Conditions wern rnally good lat Mt. SACI. basically no wind at all, 40 Hyan Shay was planning on running dPgrnes, p!'rfect for a 10,000." Shay the 5,000 nrnters at the Mt. SAC Helays said. "I had a f'pr,Jing I was going to run in Walnut. Calif. this weekend. but well based on workouts during thP after talking with hrad w£1nk. !Qualifying for coar.h Joe Pianr, dncid­thn Olympic Trials!
"/ had a feeling I was
ed to enter the 1().000 was one of my goals
going to run well ...
nwtrr rac!' instead. for thP season." Good thing he [Qualifying for Olympic Shay is now rankl'd changrcl his mind. With sncond among collP­
'frials} was one ofmy 
a timn or 28 minull1s. giatP runners in the
goals .for th season."
2(i.lJ1 srron<ls, Shay 10.000. set a p () rs o n al lw st, "TIH're's rPallv not broke Hon Mark!\zid1's murh pressurP,".Shay
Ryan Shay

1989 school rncord ol" said of his high rank­
10,000 meter runner
28:44.~Jl, finished as ing. "On the collPgiatP the top follegiatP and scene I'm still making American runner and qualified provi­a name for myself. I guess (W0ry rare sionally l'or the Olympic trials. llrnre's a little pressure, but I'd like to 
"The highlight lof Mt. SAC! would think tho pressurr.'s on the other run-have to be Ryan Shay," Piano said. "He's a pretty dedicated charncler. I'm see SHAY/page 17 
Softball Men's Lacrosse ~J at Big East Championships • Track and field vs. Indiana Seate vs. Villanova ·•:::,~:•:-Miami, Fla. ar Ball Stare lnvire 
SPORTS t 
Today, 4 p.m. Wednesday, 3 p.m. Thursday-Sunday Saturday, TBA 
~ 
ATA ,..
Baseball \ at Big E:Ist Championships Women's Lacrosse Rowing vs. Chicago State \,::;;__::,:) Miami, Fla. ~ vs. Columbia at Midwest Sprints 
Today, 5:05 p.m. Thursday-Sunday Saturday, 11 :30 a.m. Saturday, TBA
GLANCE 




