,------------------------------­
--· . -··­
Who wants to be a millionaire? 
Happy Trails! 
Scene takes a look at the wide variety of 
llave a safe and relaxing Spring Break. 

Friday

money-focused game shows currently on the 
The Observer resumes publication 

air. from "Millionaire" to "Greed." 
Tuesday, March 21., 2000. 

MARCH 10, 
Scene . pages 10-11 
2000 


THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 101  HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU  
College Dems, GOP  FANNING THE FLAMES OF HOPE  
register student voters  

By HELENA RAYAM 
News Wrher 
In a bipartisan effort to pro­molli voter rugistration. the Coll cg<' Democrats and Republicans co-sponsored thPir first voting registration drivP this Wl!Pk. 
"\,\'e wanl lo gP.l morn voter awarPness," said Lisa Dnmidovich. a Collr:ge l)pmocrat and tlrn drive's co­rhair. 
The representatives from both clubs passed out flyers informing voters of presiden­tial candidat<~s and also pro­vic!Pd rPgistration forms for sludt>nls. 
"We just want to make it morn accf'ssible," Demidovich said. 
Students who walked by the booth commentml on the con­venirnce that the registration drivr provided for them. 
"I've been wanting to regis­t11r al homn," said frnshman Maurnen .Jones. "When the opportunity presented itself, I took it." 
Jones, along with most Notre Dame students, falls under the age df'mographic that has his­torically had the worst voter turnout at elections. Since the 26th Amm1dnrnnt granted 18­year-olds were granted the right to vote in 1971, the voter percentages have remained low among 18-to 24-year-olds. 
Voter turnout was highest in this age group for the 1972 election, the first congressional election after the amendment passed, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. 58.9 percent of eligible young voters regis­terecl and 49. 6 percent of those registered voters actually made the trip to the polls. 
The trend since the 1970s has been that young voters go to lhe polls in far greater num­ber in presidential election years than in off-years. 
see VOTERS/page 6 




SMC remodels 'plain' Regina, adds doubles, quads 
By COURTNEY BOYLE News Writer 

Regina Hall (below) was As Saint Mary's students pack
built in the 
up in May to go home, construc­

1960s and fea­
tion workers will unpack to start

tures mainly sin­
the Regina Hall renovation.

gle rooms and 
After renovations, the building

attached furni­
consisting primarily of single

ture. Saint 
Mary's will rooms will be remodeled for sin­remodel the gles, doubles and some quads. dorm this sum­When the renovations are com­mer, adding plete, the furniture -now 
sprinklers, 
attached to the walls -will be

improving light­
movable.

ing and recon­
There will be sprinklers and

figuring the 
better lighting. All of this should

rooms. 
The chapel make Regina a more pleasant (right) will not home. be changed. 'Tm very excited, thrilled about it. It has gone very well so far. 
NELLIE WILLIAMS/ 
We're going to have a nice pro­

The Observer 
ject," said Keith Dennis, vice 
president of finance and adminis­tration. 
Renovations ware planned to continue over the summer months and will be completed in lime for the fall semester. 
Built in the 1960s, Regina Hall is unique compared to other resi­dence halls on campus because it served as a convent until the mid­1970s. It was at this time that the college purchased the building for the congregation and made it into a dorm. Because of its origi­nal purpose, the rooms have less than 100 square feet of floor space and the furniture, including bookshelves. desks and closets, is built into the walls. 
"The driver on [the renovations] 



is the room configuration is not desirable to students," Dennis said. "It's unattractive to students and there has been water leaking in through the windows." 
Freshman Candi McElligott agreed with Dennis about the dorm's unattractiveness. 
"Regina is a very quiet, plain building," she said. "There aren't any pretty aspects of this hall, like there are in Le Mans and Holy Cross. They have the high ceilings and the genuine antique­ness to them. I don't think that Regina fits in with the pretty atmosphere of this campus," 
Front desk worker Marg McDonnell, however, bas worked in all the residence halls and said she likes Regina the best. 
"I absolutely love this dorm. It's cozier and there is a tremendous amount of closeness with the girls," McDonnell said. "Because this is mostly singles. [they! will come down and congregate in the lobby more -I don't know why anyone wouldn't want to live in this hall." 
Students who live in Regina acknowledge the sense of com­munity. 
"It is more of a family atmos­phere," said Regina resident advi­sor Abby Stahoviak. "Many more. women leave their doors open. which invites others into their room. I find it nice to be wel­comed into another person ·s room." 
Stahoviak said the renovations 
see REGINA/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, March 10, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
It's all about soul 

I recently found myself in an interesting predicament "Do you believe the soul exists," he queslioned me. My answer was an unequivocal yes. 
What followed was a list 
of questions asked in an auompt to dl'.'fino and give form to the soul. I was asked if I could sense it through the faculties of taste, louch. sight, smell or sound. I was asked if it is tangible, how it can be detected, if it need be 


detectable in order to 
Amanda Greco

exist, how I was so con­
vinced of its existence and so on. I was at a loss. My 
.4ssistant

only retort was to ask the 
Scene Editor 

same questions regarding thought -my logical friend believes that thought exists; but ran he prove it'1 While this served to quiet the interrogator, it did little to truly resolve whether or not the soul exists. 
How do you prove such a thing? I fcl'I strongly that the soul exists -that it must. Yet. I r.annot give much reason as to why. It is merely something I "know." That does not suffice. For as resolutely as I "know" it does exist. someone else may feel he or she "knows" that it does not. Which is right? 
To me. the soul is the essence of a person, separate from their flesh and biological com­ponents. It is who and what they are. It is what they feel. It influences their morals, how they think and what they believe. I have no doubt that there is more to everyone than solely their biological make up. I think there is something that allows for the connections humans can make among one another and the sense of self and solace we can find with­in. 
Whal a sad life one must lead if he or she truly feels there is no soul! To think that something as complex as a human being could be so simply reduced to formulas and elements seems ludicrous. If we were intend­ed to be robotic. why would we have creative thought and emotion'! And what has caused us to create this delusion of spirit within our­selves? For surely there are more people who give credence to the soul's existence than those who discount it. Still. though, it trou­bles me that someone could perceive hiniself or herself as nothing more than science. 
Perhaps there is no concrete, tangible evi­dence to prove the soul's existence. That's not going to keep me from believing, though. Maybe I can't see it or taste it or touch it. But there's this feeling I get when I am with my family or close friends, a contentment I find when· among those with whom I feel I belong, a confidence within that guides me and tells me who I trulv am when others make me doubt. Words·alone do little justice to describe it. Try as you might, there is no equation that can be applied to explain this. 
There's your soul for you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column arc those of the author and nol necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Laura Pecdle  Mike Vanegas  
Tun Logan  Graphics  
Sports  Joe Mueller  
Molly McVoy  Production  
Viewpoint  M. Shannon Ryan  
Colleen Gaughen  Lab Tech  
Kevin Dalum  

The Observer (USPS 59~ 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam. and vacation period,. The Ob!'.erver is a member uf tht" ksociatcd Pr~:.. All reproduction rjghr~ .1re reserved, 
Basketball takes first step to Final Four 
Sunday March 12, 1977 The Notre Dame basketball team defeated Houston 100-77 in the first round of the NCAA tournament, taking the first step towards their only Final Four appearance. Five days later, on March 17, the Irish defeated Utah 69-56. breaking a four-yPar streak of losses in the tournament's second round. 
GLND/SMC applies for recognition 
March 6, 1992 The Gays and Lesbian of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's (GLND/SMCJ applied for official club recognition. The group was turned down, as it had been in 1986 and several times since then. The club applied for recog­nition because members folt they could better serve and represent Notnl Dame's homosexual community if they were University-supported. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Wisconsin study shows enrollment still rising 
MADISON, Wis. 
daughters of baby-boomers am 
According to both University of more likely to enroll in college. Wisconsin-Madison and U.S. "More and more students have Department of Education figures, college-educated parents, so the college enrollment in America has percentage of high school gradu­been skyrocketing and will most ates going into college will likely continue lo increase until increase," Beck said. 2007. The population trend at UW can 
Although the exact motivations be explained by class-size policy behind the rising national enroll­changes. Each year, the UW Board ment trend are unknown. numerous pretty good, and will be for a of Regents decides upon a target possibilities exist. A strong econom­while." enrollment for ear,h of the sr,hools ic boom. such as the one the country Another possible cause for the in the UW system. As of late, the has been experiencing, can influ­trend is the large increase in the Regents have been attempting to 
ence college admission trends, UW 18-to 24-year-old population. slowly increase OW-Madison's sociology professor and population which is expected to grow 16 per­enrollment. expert Halliman Winsborough said. cent between 1995 and 2007. "Each year. we have an enroll­
"When times are really good, and Experts point to numerous social ment target," Ber,k said. "We're have been good for a while, it seems changes as possible explanations trying to hit those targets. It's all more worthwhile for people to go to for the rise in college enrollment. sort of by design due to the set of college," Winsborough said. According to Bruce Beck. who spe­targets that the Regents have. 
"Given the shape or our economy, cializes in policy and planning Around 1995, they decided to it looks like things are going to be analysis for UW, the sons and increase enrollment." 
Towson student dies of meningitis 
TOWSON, Md. 

When his friends awoke Sunday morning, Joseph Patrick Kepfcrle was asleep in his room, recovering from a long weekend visiting friends and family in southern Maryland. After he had trouble waking up and felt nauseous, they thought he would just sleep it off. But Kepferle, an 18-year-old freshman from Lexington Park in St. Mary's County, died roughly 10 hours later from bacterial meningitis. Friends said he arrived home in "perfect condition" after a night out at Casa Mia's. but spent Sunday morning throwing up, sleeping and complaining of flu-like symptoms. "It just looked like a hangover and then even -after that it just looked like some nu or some cold," suitemate James Clay said. "[Doctors! said unless we got him Lo the hos­pital around noon. we couldn't have done anything. They said it is the more harsh type of meningitis. Nobody was thinking about taking him there around 1 or 2 o'clock." Kepferle's condition worsened during the day and friends took him to St. Joseph Medical Center at 7 p.m. 
NYU student nominated for Oscar 
NEWYOHK 
It's been a good year for the Tisch School of the Arts, witb alumni winning 10 of 18 awards at last month's Sundance Film Festival. And 2000 could get a whole lot bettor for the school come March. with a film by two Tisch graduate students having been nom­inated for an Oscar. "On the Ropes," a documentary produced and directed Nanette Burstein and Brett Morgen, was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature. The nomination marks the third time in the Tisch history that a student film has been nominated for an Oscar. The film follows three young boxers from the New Bcd-Stuy Boxing Center in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, as they train for tbe Golden Gloves amateur boxing tournament. Although the three face obstacles including drug abuse, poverty and self-doubt, they have allied themselves with a dedicated trainer who helps them fulfill their dreams. Burstein, in her fourth year at the Tisr,h, came up with the idea for the film in her second year at Tisch. She and Morgen began working together on the project and Morgen submitted it as his third year thesis film. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast  
AccuWeather(9 forecnst for<lnytime conditions and high lcmperatures  The AccuWeathef"> forecast for noon, Friday, March 10.  
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.  

£ • •...•••.••· ..·············-······ 
,/ L 
40s .,,,.j.

i"---·-. H 
.,,,,,,~ ',.
i 
30s -{8:r-·· 
Friday; c:3 35 20 Saturd~y C. .. 40 28 Sunday ~ 42 27 
" ... ' 'I, ' 
FRONTS: 

........,..


Monday ~ 43 27 
......... 

10 2000 A.ccuWeather. Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY 
-------~ 

~ 
@'""'© . . D . rn . 0 ~;,~" ~~,

Tues_day 43 30
.''..':f:·.;::· 
High Low Shower~ Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cli:n.rdy Cloudy 
Via Assoc1afod F'u:,15

}~/~ '.1 
Anchorage 35 19 Houston 79 55 Rapid City 35 26 

q_Q_Q_q~Q{)  ~  u  Boston Chicago  48 32  27 21  i<ay West Milwaukee  79 28  55 19  St. Paul San Francisco  71 60  58 49  
Showers  T-storms  .Rain  FluffiBs  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  Daytona Beach  81  58  New York  51  33  Seattle  49  38  
VITJ Associated Press Graph1csNer  Denver  46  26  Philadelphia  55  36  South Padre  79  65  

Friday, March 10, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC fundraises for Plan 
• Administration lines up early donors, seeks to develop plant fund 
By KAREN FINK 
News Wrirer 
l!undrNls of Saint Mary's students walk from Noble Family Dining llall to class or thPir dorms every day, and they will do tho same for years to come. · Ten years from now, how­nv1\r, tlley may be able lO stop by the bookstore or post office in the student center before they leave the dining hall. 
This new addition will !Jc orrn of many campus changes to take place under the \lastnr Plan, a decade-long projert that will hi'gin this year. 
Tlw r.stimatcd cost of tlrn plan, including inflation, i,; almost $100 million. The f'undrnising committrrs bopn to raisn an additional 20 pcr­cnnt of tlrn cost for the cre­ation of a farilitiPs Pndow­nwnt. a fund to focus on the maintenance and upkcnp of the new additions. 
"Prescntlv wc arc in the early stages of fundraising and our focus is to introduce LhP projert to prospnctive donors and [show them! what the additions will mean to the col!Pg<'," said Richard nussell. vice president f'or College Relations. "Already we hav!' had some commit­
nwnts." 
In February. the College hirr,d Bentz, Whalev & Fless1wr. a fundraiser-·con­su!ting firm based out of Minneapolis. The firm will help the school to devc>lop 
proposals, confirm donors and decide on lhe best alter­native in rundraising. 
"The pace will pick up now with the consulting firm to help make decisions." Hussell said. 
With the many factors involved in fundraising, stu­dents may wonder what role· they will have in the process. 
"The students play a criti­cal role in helping us get ar,ross the mRssage about why the project is important and how it will improve the quality of the Saint Marv's experience," Russell said. "Plus, just having the prospectivl" donors Sl"e the impressive women of Saint Mary's helps." 
Russell added that he wants to quote students about tbe importance of the Master Plan and their experi­ence at Saint Mary's in the f'undraising materials. 
The school plans to begin construction on the Welcome Center and Clubhouse later this monlh. Renovation on ffogina Hall will begin this summer and all throe pro­jects will be completed by the start of next school year. 
The entire cost of the wel­come center and half of the cost of the clubhouse were donated by anonymous par­ents. The Parent's Council is in the process of raising the remaining funds for the club­house. 
"We are fortunate to have such a strong donor base," said College president Marilou Eldred. 
The renovations in Regina will be paid for by a plant fund. 
"The plant l'und is a collec­t ion of funds that the Trustees have set aside each year for the purpose of 

The William and Katherine Devers Prowam in Dante Studies presents: 
rnpairing and rf"novating the buildings and equipment on campus. It is funded by cal­cu Ia ting the useful life of capital items purchased and then dividing that number into the cost," said Keith Dennis, vice president fur Finance and Administration. "This amount is put into a separate account each vear. Those funds are then used to replaGe, repair or renovate the assets." 
The Board of Trustees recently approved the use of money from the plant fund for the renovations in Regina. 
The next goal in the Master Plan is the building of the student center. 
"The student center is pri­ority right now and it is the key to the other projects being able to happen," said Russell. 
Ile went on to explain that the Master Plan works in a domino effect. Once the stu­dent center is completed, Haggar will he rPnuvated, followed !Jy LeMans llall. 
"I am optimistic that we will have the financial back­ing for the new center when the plans for it are complet­ed," he said. 
Both Russell and Dennis are pleased with the overall fundraising process so far. 
"We certainly have been successful in raising funds for the Welcome Center and Clubhouse in such short time," Dennis said. 
"We're pretty much on tar­get," Russell said. "The most encouraging part of the process so far is the over­whelmingly positive feedback from people. To summarize the reactions, the people find the Master Plan great. excit­ing and ambitious. It is what Saint Mary's needs." 
·-.~·=·?:;::;:· •.
"Des1·re and Death,:/:,:•i""''>,;;::::Mfa
/.:::::=-· :~::. ::\ft 
·::·.:::./{: 
or Francesca and Guido Caviltalti: 

.•.· .;:•. 
•····· c:ll¾O llll
/:: :ffl)f ... =:=· -· 
(Columbia uJJ!ifi~tl~' 

209:S William and Katherine Devers v't{~fg P~pfessor of Dante Studies 
1

~}esday, ~·.:.:.. .. ... .•.: .. .. 4:3Opm
.. ,.··:.:,t.,.:,.~'ti~~.·.:.·.:.
:.:,•:f'·:,.···,~,··.··.,~,·.·.".•,·· ,~.1.•·l•i.
·.:·.·,·.w.··t'::,

11!1~:;1:::\ .;,,,, f >:,
.·,;:-,/ . •· . 

$' '''\<,,;':i:J,tittk.. f •:}iiii:::':;,;;;:Q,,pa.rtinent of Special Collections 
\!::::.. --:\ti:-t\t:;::.. ~r~:-:~:::« ..../!::::~::}tf:t 

\t, \',:}\}\,~J::::::,~:;;~:;~:;:~1:Jl' 102 Hesburgh Library 
hee an<l opent~::ff:iip4bhs, tl1is lecture ,vii! be followed by a reception . which all are welcome. 

This b..:turc is part oF a w.:ck-long compact scmin..1r taught by Professor Rarolini from March 20-24. If you are interested in this seminar which "'rill meet from 7-9pm, please contact the Dept. of Romance Languages & Literatures, 631-6886. 
Senior studies roles of Latina woinen 
By KATIE McVOY News Writer 
Latina women are taking their place in a world where women are assuming an increasing number of non-tra­ditional roles, according to a study by Manuela Hernandez, a senior psychology major at Saint Mary's. 
"My hypothesis was that most Latina college students would be preparing to enter the workforce as teachers and nurses, which are traditionally women's fields," Hernandez said. "The hypothesis was based on the Hispanic apply to women at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 

"Because these women are educated Latina women, they may already be considered non-traditional," Hernandez said. "The fact that they are in private colleges also makes them less traditional. Rrsults may have differed if I had studied a public college or community college." 
In addition to studying the kinds of roles Latinas take on, Hernandez also looked into the external influences which tend to affect the women. She found that a father's education love! and the amount of time the mother .spent working 
·machismo' "Because these women affected the culture, women sur­
are educated Latina 
which puts veyed. There 
women, they may
men at the was a definite top of the already be considered correlation hierarchical between the
non-traditional."
chain, and level of the reports that fathp,r's edu­Latinas are Manuela Hernandez cation and the 
more likely senior psychology major choice of role. 
t h a n Caucasian females to endorse traditional roles. My study exposed a completelv different reality." · 
Hernandez began her study last year, using a sample of 20 women. This smaller study upheld the initial hypothesis that Latinas were likely to pur­sue traditional female roles. This, along with the "machis­mo" culture, seemed to indi­cate that a complete study would show that Latina women take on traditional roles. 
Hernandez reported that 57 percent of her sample of Latina women were pursuing non-traditional majors such as business, science, and finance. Her sample was composed of Latina women from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Thirty-five percent of these were pursuing gender-neutral majors, such as communica­tion, and only 8 percent were pursuing the traditional female majors such as nursing or edu­cation. 
Hernandez attributes some of the differences between the results and the hypothesis to her sample population. She also stressed the results only In general. the 
women in non­

tradition a I roles had fathers with higher levels of education than those in traditional roles. Also, these women's mothers tended to spend more time working. 
To complete her sample, Hernandez investigated whether or not generation had an effect on Latinas' career choices. She asked if Latina women become less traditional as they are separated by gen­erations from their Latina roots and initiated into U.S. culture. She found this had no effect on the women's choice of role. 
Hernandez herself is a first generation American. Both of her parents are from Mexico. Although her mother used to stay at home, she now works to help other Hispanics file income taxes and file for immi­gration. Her father, formerly a carpenter, currently works in a foundry in Fort Wayne. 
Hernandez plans on going to graduate school through a fel­lowship with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute or the General Public Policy. Following graduate school, she hopes to go to law school and practice immigration law. 
CORRECTIONS 

Two headshots in Thursday's Observer wore misidentified. Freshman Tiffany Johnson was identified as freshman April Allen, while Allen was identified as Johnson. 
A photo c_aption i_n Thursday's Observer said that professor Theresa Gh1larducc1 taught English. Ghilarducci is an associate professor of economics. 
The Observer regrets the errors. 

PRESENTING THE MOST IMPORTANT INSTRUMENT 
Your telephone 

ETREATMENT 
can make the dif ference between a stroke that may 
TROKE. 
take afew weeks of recovery and one that takes alife. Because the faster you call an ambulance and getto the hospital, the greater your chance oflimiting brain injury. For more information call theAHA's Stroke Connection at 1-800-553-6321 
American Hean ft 
---
Association.V 

Thlospacep,ovlded ..ap.j>lle....,;ee.--Ol992,"""'ricaftHoal1As!oeialiOn 

page 4 
SMC students serve 
others over break 
,-------------------------~------------­
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March I 0, 2000 

By KATIE McVOY 
News \'i'rirer 
The Saint Mary's Spes Unica Resource Center (SIJRVl office is sponsoring Lwo spring break service trips this year. One group of women will be going to Appalachia and another 
group will  lrn  going to  El  
Salvador.  
The students going to  El  

Salvador will b11 on a pilgrim­age. The group is composed of seven Saint Mary's women, one man from Notre Dame and two s.isters of the lloly Cross. 
The students will meet with El Salvadorans, especially those affected by the war. They will also Yisit martyr sites and seek to get a general feel for the culture. 
Sister Linda Kors, director of SUHV says that the experi­ence is a very positive one for all involved_ 
"Generally the students say it is a life-changing experi­ence," she said "Seeing the passion of the people of El Salvador really makes the students ask what their moti­vation is and how they can be as passionate as the people of El Salvador." 
The Appalachian trip will 
visit the town uf Cliutwood in Dickinson County, Va. The women will be staying in a house during the course of the week and ·will take care of Lheir own cooking and dean­ing. 
The group is rnmposed of women from the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame r:ommunitv. 
The plan for the week is very 11exiblfl. Once the women arrive there are a variety of things they might do for the week. These include repairing porches and roofs, replacing showers anrl doing general maint1mance for tlrn commu­nity of Clintwood. 
"We will be doing a lot ol' 
. intNacting with the members of the community," said 1\11.lry Koenig, a junior at Notre Dame, said. "They told us to bring pictures of our families so we can show them to the people in the community anct try to relate to them." The women involved in the trip are going for various rea­sons, but all of them are look­ing forward to the opportuni­ty to help others. "My sister went on trips like these all four years she was in college," Mary Wald. a junior at Saint Mary's said. "I thought it would be a great idea to do something like that." 
ND students volunteer 
Special ro The Observer 
Many students will spend their coming spring break earning academic credit by studying and applying the social doctrine of the Catholic Church through volunteer programs across North America. 
Administered by the Center for Social Concerns, the unique Social Concerns Seminars program will send 133 students to impoverished regions of Appalachia, migrant worker camps in Florida, a community of developmentally disabled peo­ple in Canada, historic sites of the civil rights movement in the southern stales, and the centers of public policy in Washington, D.C. 
The Appalachia Seminar is the most heavily subscribed in the program. This spring, 94 students will travel to eight sites in Kentucky, West Virginia, Virginia and North Carolina to observe and assist in health care, community organizing, education, land use, and housing programs. A special emphasis of this year's seminar will be home repair and rebuilding in the region of Bertie and Hertford Counties in North Carolina, whose communities have not fully recovered from the dev­astation of Hurricane Floyd and last fall's f1ooding. Father Steve Worsley, pastor of St. Charles Catholic Church in Ahoskie, N.C., and a 1984 Notre Dame graduate, will assist 19 seminar participants in volunteer service there. 
Five students will partic­ipate in the l'Arche/Daybreak Community Seminar. Eleven students will participate in the Migrant Experiences seminar; another 11 will par­ticipate int he Washington Seminar. Twelve students will participate in the Civil !lights and Social Change seminar. 

Regina 
continued from page l 
will change more than the physical structure of the dorm. 
"l think with the new reno­vations the enUre atmosphere will change. More doors will be closed and it will become more like the other halls on campus," she said. 
McElligott agrees with Stahoviak that the renovations will change the sense of com­munity next year. 
"I think that the renovations will help a little next year, because they plan on making it all size rooms on every lloor, instead of just singles. This will hopefully help with the whole unity factor, because that definitely needs to be worked on in this build­ing," said McE!ligott. "Also, the furniture will be move­able, and this gives a resident a little more to work with, and to arrange her room the way she wants to." 
As of this year Regina Hall houses approximately 150 res­idents with no current vacan­cies. However, three of eight f1oors are not open for student residence. 
The goal for next year is for Regina to be at its capacity of 245. 
Director of Residence Life Dana North said the reason Regina is not full is based solely on student preference and upperclassmen don't choose it because they tend to want doubles. But she has been hearing positive feed­back about the renovations, which might bring students back into the dorm. 
"We're hoping that students starl choosing it," North said_ "There have been a lot of posi­tive reactions to the drawings that were posted." 
Hegina resident Colleen Miles likes living there and said the renovations will add to the experience. 
"l chose to live in Regina ber.ause I liked the idea of having my own personal space," Miles said. "Also, I would live here next year, with or without the renova­tions, although the renova­tions will give Regina more perks." 
Melinda Brown, Regina llall Director, has received positive feedback from current Regina residents. 
''I've heard a lot of students wanting to stay here. I hope so because I think it will be really fun," said Brown. 
Clqss of2003 
There is agroup on campus to help students facing disciplinary hearings before the Office of Residence Life. Peer advocates are specially trained to guide students through the disciplinary process. They comprise adivision ofJudicial Council, a Student Government organization, and are not part ofResidence Life. 
Ifyou are interested in being apeer advocate pick up an application in the Student Government Office in La/ortune. 
Applications are due March 26, 2000. For additional information contact Angela Galui or Tony Wagner at 1-4556. 
l_ _____ _ 
orld 



Friday, March 10, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Chechen rebels fight to break Russian blockade 
KOMSOMOLSKOYE. Russia 

Hussian troops <mcircling a Chechen village fought Thursday to keq1 rnbels from breaking through their lines, but the rebels split into small groups and mounted intense resistance. The battle for Komsomolskoyc. which has raged since rehcls entered the village on Sunday. undn·linns the militants' ability to inflict serious clamagP on federal forces in guerrilla attacks, evPn though thP Hussian troops outnumber them and have superior wPapons. Since thou­sands of rebels abandoned thfl Chechen capital. Groznv. rnor<> than a month ago, Hussian forces havn 'rocusocl their offensive on mounting intense assaults in the republic's southern mountains. But despit<' seizing stratrgir posi­tions and capturing a major militant stronghold, the Russians are suffering heavy losses. 
Memphis grieves for shooting victims 
MEMPJ-11S, Tenn. 

l\fomphis was a city in mourning Thursday. Flags ,..verc at half-staff, bouquets of flowers wPrr~ placed on fire hall stops, and firefighters and law officNs wore black bands across their badges. All were in memory of two firefighters and a sheriff's deputy who were slain Wednesday -allegedly by one of their com­radrs. firefighter Fred Williams -in a rampage that has angernd and saddened this Mississippi River city. "It's just so shocking." said Pam McFarlin. who took food to firefighters at Fire Station No. 55 and brought a bouquet of flowers to the home where the men were shot. "We all just feel so bad." Williams, 41, ambushed the lirefightt~rs as they arrived to fight a blaze at his home, authorities said. Williams' wife. Stacey, was found shot to death in the garage. 
Ukraine police end seige of Communist headquarters 
KIEV, Ukraine 

Hadical nationalists who seized the headquar­ters of the Ukrainian Communist Party surren­dernd to police early Friday, ending a 13-hour standoff. Group members said they gave up after government officials and lawmakers agreed to consider their political program. One by one, teen-agers and young men, as well as one young woman, emerged to board waiting poli'ce jeeps. About a dozen students took con­trol of the building in Kiev's old, picturesque Podil district at about noon Thursday, sending communist oflicials fleeing. They demanded a ban on Communist Party, which they said undermined Ukrainian independence. a purge of formr.r Communists occupying state posts, and called on Ukraine to leave the Commonwealth of Independent States, an alliance of former Soviet republics. 

S&P 500: Composite 
1401.69 Volume:

10010.73 -'-3-t.59 18,564,722,918 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY TIClSER 'ii CH.ANGE $ C:UAU21 PII.IC:: 
UZLL COMPV'l"IR D!:LiL +3 .5025 +7.U 71.138 HI:CROSOFT CORP MSFT .,. 4375 ... , .61 H,,099 IJIERlCA ONLINE. AOL .+6 ,5050 +l.l.SS U.2'0 CISCO SYS'l'D!.!l csco .. o.1350 +5.24 Sl.62C ORACL!: CORP OJICL •0. 8750 +l,O!i :.ia.:,na 810COIITROL 1'1CH BICO +O ,0300 +5.0B 23.IU ffCO INTL L'l'D TYC •1 .,zoo +6.;16 23,113 PAGING HJ:'I'WORK ffAQP.: -1.MOO -lfl.17 .21.,,s SHITH HIC:RO sor SMSI +10 .,:.i:::is +101. 77 20.nt ]l;gRox CORP XR.X .L 2500 +5.811 20.8'8 
Associated Press 

KADENA AIR BASE 
Defense Secretary William Cohen appealed Friday for China. and Taiwan to halt their \Var of words and said he hoped to visit Beijing this summer to urge restraint. 
"Both sides should lower 
the rhetoric and lower the 
tensions and then try to 
\vork this out in a peaceful 
fashion rather than one of 
intimidation and confronta­
tion." Cohen said en route 
from Washington to Hong 

Associated Press 

SEDONA. Ariz. 
John McCain suspended his insurgent presidential campaign today, conceding the Republican presidential nomination to George W. Bush but vowing to remain "a force for change." 
After absorbing a Super Tuesday drubbing by Bush, the Arizona senator said GOP voters had spoken, "and I respect their deci­sion. I am no longer an active candidate for my party's nomination for president." 
McCain pointedly offered Bush his "best wishes" but not his endorsement after a bitter campaign that pitted a self-styled political reformer against the Texas 
JAPAN 

governor and his allies in endorsement yet. "I intend the GOP establishment. to talk with him at his con­McCain rode waves of inde­venience," Bush told pendents and Democrats to reporters. "There needs to victories in New Hampshire be some time to settle out. and Michigan, posing an John needed some time to 
unexpect­ think."  
ed threat to Bush. Bush,  "I am no longer an active candidate for my party's  I n Austin, Texas,  
c a m -paigning i n  nomination for president."  home of Bush's c a m - 
Colorado,  paign.  
congratu­ John McCain  his aides  
lated his former  Arizona senator  w e r e contact- 
rival "for  i  n  g  

fighting th(:) good fight" and McCain intermediaries to he said he appreciated determine how the gover­McCain's kind words. nor should proceed with 
The governor said he had the fallen rival. Bush "a very short" telephone wants McCain's endorse­conversation with McCain, ment to help woo inde­but he didn't ask the pendent voters in the fall, Arizona senator for his but his aides are not 
directly asking for one, 
according  to  a  senior  
Bush adviser.  
The  adviser  said  

McCain's team has assured them he won't bolt the GOP and has sig­naled that he won't make demands in exchange for an endorsement. Bush's aides have been told that McCain wants to be a "resource" for the GOP campaign, but they don't yet know what would con­vince McCain to back the governor. 
Independent of the Bush campaign effort, 1996 GOP nominee Bob Dole has contacted at least one McCain intermediary and asked to talk to his former colleague, a GOP source said. McCain campaigned with Dole in 1996. 

Cohen urges China to cool tensions 
Kung for his first visit to the former British colony since it reverted to Chinese con­trol in 1997. 
Cohen's Air f<orce plane stopped to refuel at the U.S. military base on the island of Okinawa. 
The defense chief said he would use his public appearances and private meetings in Hong Kong to stress the Clinton adminis­tration's view that Taiwan's status must not be settled by military means. 
Cohen said he hoped the "rhetorical tensions" will subside once Taiwan holds presidential elections March 18. 
China sees Taiwan as a renegade province and has said it cannot rule out using military force if Taiwan tries to gain independence. Washington recognizes Taiwan as part of "one China," but is committed to providing weaponry for Taiwan to defend itself. 
Cohen said he hoped to visit China early this sum­mer. Ile did not mention a specific date. 
On Saturday, Cohen is scheduled to meet with Tung Chee Hwa, the Hong Kong chief executive, and other government officials. He said he would stress the need for stringent export controls in busy llong Kong harbor to prevent the illicit transshipment of narcotics and materials intended for terrorists. 
A common theme of Cohen's Asia tour -not just in Hong Kong. but next week in Vietnam, Japan and South Korea -will be China and its sudden shift last month to a more aggressive stance on reunit­ing Taiwan with the main­land. 

page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 10, 2000 
Symposium examines role of army chaplains 
Special co The Observer 
An international brigade of experts will examine the roles and responsibilities of mili­tary chaplains in a sympo­sium March 18-19 at Notre Dame. 
Titled "Military Chaplains in Their Contexts." the sympo­sium will analyze the 1,600­year history of the military chaplainate -from late antiquity to the present -in an effort to draw conclusions about religion and war in the Western tradition. 
Invited guests and Notre Dame faculty will take histori­cal, theological and literary approaches to issues of mili­tary morale, fear of death, and belief in the power of God to affect human events. Related topics. including the concept of holy war, religious opposition to war, and the church on the home front, also will be discussed. 
The schedule for Saturday, March 18: 
Session I 
9-10:30 a.m. 
Late antiquity/medieval Europe Moderator: David Bachrach, Notre Dame 
Papers: Ralph Mathisen, University of South Carolina, "Priests, Bishops, and Monks: Military Chaplains in the Roman World" and Michael McCormick. Harvard University, "Liturgy of War from Antiquity to the Crusades" 
Comm1rnt: Patrick Geary, Notre Dame 
Session II 
10:45 a.m.-12:15 p.m. 
Earlv modern Europe 
Moderator: Father Robert Sullivan, Notre Dame 
Paper: Anne Laurence, Open University, United Kingdom. "Did the Nature of the Enemy Make a Difference? Chaplains in the English Civil War" 
Comments: John Lynn, University of Illinois, and Thomas Kselman, Notre Dame 
Session Ill 
1:45-3:15 p.m. 
The World Wars 

Moderator: Rabbi Max Wall. Ohavi Zedek Synagogue, Vermont 
Papers: Duff Crerar, Grande Prairie Regional College, Alberta, Canada, "Crusaders ­or Buffoons: Canadian Memory and the Great War Padres" and Doris Bergen, Notre Dame, "Between God and Hitler: German Chaplains in World War II and the Dilemmas of Legitimacy" 
Comment: Paul Fussell, University of Pennsylvania 
Session IV 
3:30-5 p.m. 
The United States 

Moderator: Father Michael Baxter, Notre Dame 
Papers: rather Gardiner Shattuck, Jr.. "Vifth Wheel: Faith, Morale, and the Army Chaplain in the American Civil War" and Father Joseph O'Donnell, "Clergy in the Military -Vietnam and After: One Chaplai.n's Story" 
Comment: Anne Loveland, Louisiana State University 
Hartmut Lehmann, director of the Max Planck Institute for History in Germany, will conclude the symposium at 
9:30 a.m., March 19 with an address titled "In the Service of Two Kings: Prussian Military Chaplains, 1713­1918." 
The symposium will be held at McKenna Hall and there is no charge for registration. 
It is sponsored by Notre Dame's Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism, Erasmus Institute, Department of Government and International Studies, depart­ment of history, Graduate School. Institute for Scholarship in tho Liberal Arts, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Medieval Institute, Nanovic Institute for European Studies, and department of theology. 
She joined... 
Now you should do the 
same...join the graphics department. Munching on a hamburger 
is another story. 

Apply now at jcuellar@nd.edu. 
Voters 
continued from page 1 
In the 1996 presidential elec­tions, the voter turnout was a \ow 32.4 percent in the 18-to­24 age group. Based on past trends showing that turnout is higher in years without an incumbent candidate, this year's contest will likely draw more voters without incumbent candidates, but it is uncertain as to what the youth will do. 
The stud1rnts running the drive hope to boost voter turnout, and thus increase the influence of young voters. 
"The reason I became involved with the College Republicans to begin with is because the political apathy is something that bother me," said College Republicans trea­surer Katie Thompson. "We have a huge constituency, but we don't use it." 
Demidovich agreed that young people could make more of a political influence if they would vote. 
"It's easy for us to take for granted that we have the right to vote." said Demidovich. 
Junior Nathan Blazei came to register to vote for the first time after rf:'ading an ad in the Observer and because the drive was convenient for him. 
"In the past two years, I didn't care to vote," he said. "I definitely feel it affects me more right now." 
Sophomore Anabel Navarra said that she feels that policies directly affect her and that vot­ing is not only a right. but also a privilege. 
"I felt like so many people, especially women and minori­ties, have worked so hard for me to have the opportunity to vote. I should take that oppor­tunity and put it to use," Navarra said. 
The reaction from most of the people that attended the voter registration drive was positive and many students rngistered. Many of those who did not said that they would try to come later. 
One minor point of con-
Get all 
the tax
relief 
the law allows 
The IRS wants you to know all the savings to look for. The Child Tax Credit for children under 17. The HOPE Credit and Lifetime Learning Credit for higher education. The Roth IRA. And more. Check your 1999 tax booklet or consult our Web site: www.irs.gov 

tention involved the candidate information pamphlets that organizers distributed. 
Sorin Hall senator Cimarron Gilson who was upset that the pamphlet did not mention one of the candidates still in the race, Republican Alan Keyes. 
"It's disappointing that they would fail to inform newly reg­istered voters and they're starting them off with the 'real political process,' which is dirty and messy," Gilson said. "For democracy's sake, it's fair to include all the candidates." 
The pamphlet was an 8-by­11 sheet of paper, one side with the two major Republican candidates, George W. Bush and John McCain and the other with Democrat candidates Al Gore and Bill Bradley. 
Organizers were limittid on space when making the pam­phlet, and so they includAd only the major candidates, 
Demidovich said. 

"We were just trying to do the frontrunners like the New York Times and Wall Street Journal," she said, noting that Gilson could put together a pamphlet, which organizers would be willing to distribute at future drives. 
The College Democrats and Republicans are planning upcoming registration drives, and will invite local and national candidates to speak after they receive their party nominations. 
They maintain the belief that the increasing student aware­ness about politics will aid in better voter turnout for future elections. 
"I am surprised at the num­ber of people that came nut, said College Democrat Chris White. "It's something that pr,oplo don't get around to doing." 
SAY... 

"atee4eC4tle'' 
COFFEE & BAKERY 
Proudly Serve 
• CORNER BAKERY 
From Chicago 


Mon-Fri 7am-10pm/ Sat..l0am-l0pm 
(Special Hours Before & Afti.:!r Theatre Performances) 
213 North Main Street, Downtown South Bend 
(Behind Morris Performing Arts Center) 
233-(]aje 

GRAND OPENING MARCH 23, 2000 (HELP WANTED) 

Friday, March 10, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 


Sklar: Integrate Catholic experience 
By KIFLI N TURNER New., Wrircr 
The integration of Catholic history in American history is nssential to understanding AmNican history as complete work, Si.lid Kathryn Sklar, from· the Statti University of New York at Binghamton. 
Ih,r talk leads off a lecture St)rics fornsing on Catholicism in /\merica, tlrn culmination of three years of research by morn than 40 seholars. 
"!ThP. study] offers a wcll­ctevPloped plan to promote thP inU1gration of Catholic history i11to American history to provicle a fruitful intersec­tion," Sklar said. 
Sklar said she rq{ards the mission to wid<'n the scoJW of knowledge and unclr~rstand­ing of tlw Catholic experience in America as "a project that is making history in tlrn histo­ry of'vvriting." 
The mcssugn of Sklar's pre­SPtllntion c1'nlcrGd on inte­grating the Catholic expcri­t:1we into mainstream society. She attributrd the c-lear la.ck of intrgration of' Catholir his­tory in American history as a rPsult of "Prott>stant dominat­nd movPmc>nts" which held the bPliel' that "God's provi­dence is guiding the nation towards providential goals." ­
Beginning in the I7th cen­tury, Sklar said, this preva­lent Prnt!'stant ethic created an "idealistic Vflrsion of' Anwrir,an history and one of many intflrpretations." She further declared Protestant domination as "llrn dancer and the dance." Sklar urged scholars and historians alike to create their own history in which a new way of viewing nstablished history will bring about change and increase Catholic inclusion in society. 
Recent trends, however, reveal a growing acceptance and inclusion of Catholic his­tory, Sklar reported, that now runs in "parallel riverbeds that flows into the main­stream." 
"If we could imagine American historians embrac­ing Catholic history, it would be a grnaL change," she said. 
There am two main factors behind the growing accep­tance of Catholic history. Sklar said. 
One is "a distinctive tradi­tion and its minoritv, or our outside status in American history," she said. The other is history's label of Catholicism as "otlrnrness.'' 
"This tension between AmPr.ica and minorities kept [Cutholicisrn'sl identity in the mainstream," she said. 
The tension mainstream American and other minori­ties narrowed the difforences in Catholic and American his­tory. 
The women's movement. especially among Protestants, is a main focus of Sklar's research. ShP attributed the success of the "U.S. women's movement by its separateness of its identity." Likewise, Sklar maintains that the "same inclusion is occurring in the recent integration of Catholic history." She said the women's movement exemplified "good history" and that "good history is rela­tively easy to recognize [mak­ing it] hard to keep outsiders out." 
Saying "anti-Catholicism [is] alive and well," Sklar pointed to four tactics to improve acceptance: First, Sklar urged the scholars "to continue with Cushwa's plan in integrating Catholic history into American history." Second, she challenged modern 


.-----------------------------------­

NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FOR A $5.00 BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 
SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
reformers. 
"Don't be shy," she said. "Use the perspective of Catholic history to make big claims on American history." 
She also said that these reformers should "subvert or critique the dominant para­digm of providential history" whenever possible and to write about all angles of our national experience. 
By redefining the way in 
1111111 
which history is written, "future Catholicism might create new mainstreams [that) will gain the wide audi­ence that it deserves." 
Together with the support of the Lily Endowment and the Notre Dame, the Cushwa project founded by Charles and Margaret Paul Cushwa, plans to continue its endeav­ors towards the increased inclusion of Catholic history with the assistance of theolo­gians and scholars. 
Sklar received her Ph.D.
from the University of Michigan in 1969 and has published numerous articles and reviews, earning both Ford and Guggenheim endowments. 
Sklar is best known for her 
scholarly  accounts  of  
Kathryn  Beecher  and  
Florence  Kelley,  both  of  

which earned her the Berkshire-Price Award. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
i 
-Used books hough! and sold -25 Categories of Books 
-25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 
-Out-of-Pririt search service: $2.0(1 -Appraisals large and small 
OPEN NOON TO SIX TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 1027 E. WAYNE SOUTH BEND, IN 46618 


House 
•
increases min. wage 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The House on Thursday passed a $1 increase in the minimum wage over two years coupled to a 10-year, $122 bil­lion Republican tax cut intend­ed to soften the impact on business. President Clinton immediately renewed his veto threat over the tax cuts. 
"Once again, Republicans in the House of Heprnsentatives have demonstrated thut they would rather light for special interests than give working families the raise they deserve." Clinton said in a written statement. "Congress should send me a bill I can sign: a clean, straightforward bill that raises the minimum wage by a dollar over two years." 
The House voted 246-179 for a bipartisan amendment boosting the $5.15-an-hour wage by $1 over two years -a $2,000 raise for a full-time worker. The amendment replaced a Hepublican plan to increase the wage by $1 over three years. The rewritten bill then passed 282-143. 
"Three years is simply too long to phase in a minimum wage increase," said Rep. Jim Traficant, D-Ohio, a main sponsor. "An increase of $1 over two years will have an immediate· positive impact on thousands of families." 
Earlier, the House voted 257-169 for the GOP tax bill that Clinton opposes, two­thirds of it cuts in estate taxes. Republican leaders used par­liamentary procedures to com­bine the tax and wage mea­sures into one bill. 
The Senate has passed a three-year $1 increase in the minimum wage and its own tax package as part of a bill to make it harder for people to escape credit card and other debts in bankruptcy court. Differences in the Senate and House measures will have to be worked out before a bill is sent to Clinton. 
Many Democrats said the increase was long past due, noting that average pay for corporate chief executive offi­cers has risen some 750 per­cent since 1980, compared to only 68 percent for the aver­age worker. About 4 million workers are paid the minimum wage. 
"Even the modest $1 
increase we are debating 
today is not enough," said Rep. 
Donald Payne, D-N.J. 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
page 8 BSERVER Friday, March 10, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Noue Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Nom Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogcro  
AssT. MAN ...GING F:orroR  
LaurJ Petdk  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VJl"Wl'OINT EmTOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS Eo!ToR: Brian Kessler 
SCFNE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie rttoTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVFRTISING MANA.GEi!: Bryan l.ut7. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bree Hud,H SYSTEMS Ant,IINISTRATOR: Michael Rever.s Wre ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timorhy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
0FF!CL MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631 •747! FAX............................................................. 63 l-6':)27 ADVERTISING ..............................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EmToR/Asn. ME ................. 631-4541 BUSINF.SS OFACE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWl'OINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCENE...................... ,........................ ,........ 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MA.RY'S.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................63l-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:!lobsen1er.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-to-rhe 
weekly srudem reviews 

minure forecasts 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rares of priru ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Obsen,er

archives to search for 
to meet the editors and 

anides pltblished afrer 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe Universirv ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Marv's College. Editorial content, including adverciseme~ts, is nor governed by policies ofrhe adminisrrarion ofeither instituuon. The Observer reserves the right m refuse advertisemems based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editofials represent the opinion of tl1e majority of the Editor in Chief'. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and musr include contact information. · 
Questions regarding Obseroer policies should be direct­ed to Edif;f)r m ChiefMit-heik Kmpa. 

Winning isn't everything. It isn't even the large majority of what it means to be an athlete these days. 
What really counts is whether or not you are a role model to the younger genera­tion. Sure, if you can win all of your games, people will call you a great athlete. but in today's sports world, a lot depends on how you play on the court and how you present yourself off the court. 
Whether we like it or not, sports have become a major part of our lives. Sure, the country has been enthralled with baseball, football. bas­ketball and even hockey. but never before this era has the business of sports and the conduct of athletes made the daily headlines on the hard news side ofjournalism. 
It used to be that the worst thing that surfaced in pro football was an occasional cocaine abuser (Lawrence Taylor). But with the advent of' players whose criminal record become part of their story, such as Lawrence Phillips, crime has been almost shrugged at in this sport. For extreme examples, three pro football players have been accused of murder in the last five years. The notorious O.J. Simpson case was divided in the courts between Simpson being criminally not guilty, yet civilly liable. Rae Carruth was implicated in the drive-by shoot­ing of his prngnam girlfri1rnd. Then. 

most recently, Ray Lewis was accused 
and indicted in a club brawl stabbing 
in Atlanta. 
That same criminal attitude has seeped into the college game. Florida State was so beleaguered at one point in the season by criminal accusations that they put their players on guarded curfew during the nights before the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans. 
Basketball has seen its share of problems as well. For example, f'ew players are as good in the paint as Dennis Rodman is. But on Wednesday night, the Dallas Mavericks waived Hodman and ended his stint with his third team in two years. Why can such an excellent player not find a home'? Because fans and owners alike cannot put up with the kind of idiotic attitude that a player like Rodman brings to the game. 
Players like Latrell Sprewell get away with these disgustingly overt displays of violence because they can play the game. But forever they are branded with the label of "thug" or just traded around until they are put on a team where the are not the worst kid on the block. 
Baseball is not immune to its legal problems either, although most of them are limited to the personally destructive types, such as Darryl Strawberry. 
In hockey, perhaps the most brutal of the sports mentioned, two recent events have brought home how wide­spread this culture of violence has become. Marty McSorley's slash of Donald Brashear caused the latter to be knocked unconscious and bleeding on the ice and the former to be brought up on assault charges in Vancouver. The second instance of violence that has sorely tarnished the sporting world was the recent arrest of Dallas Stars goalie Ed Belfour on charges of assault and resisting arrest. 

This, coupled with the international­ly embarrassing vandalism of a Japanese hotel room by the U.S. Olympic hockey team in 1998, all of whom were pro hockey players. proves that this phenomenon is not limited to the warmer sports. 
With ESPN's family of networks, Fox Sports Net and all the various sports web sites, news and sports arc becom­ing synonymous like never before. Fewer and fewer of the stories con­cern what the players did on the court. More often they are concerned with what the players do off the court. 
And well they should be. These arc men and women who stand up as an example to every little kid who watch­es the sport, dreaming to have the skills and the chance to play in the arenas that these people play in. Whether or not you win or lose is sec­ondary. It isn't how you play the game, either. This attitude of being unaccountable in the face of the law and the standards of society transfers back to those very same kids and cre­ates an entirely new generation of players that just take it a step fartlrnr. 
Thus, the cycle will never end until some players stand up and say, "I AM a role model." 
Matt Loughran is a former news editor and currently attends graduate school at Saint John's College in Annapolis. Md. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"When it comes to sports, I am not particularly interested. Generally speaking, I look upon them as dangerous and tiring activities performed by people with whom I share nothing except the right to trial by jury. " 
Fran Lebowitz author 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Friday, March l 0, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Boycott Denny's 
As an alumnus who occasionally reads The Observer over the lntPrnPt. I was horrified hv the recent stories of the incident at Denny's in Roseland. · · 
I was, however. happy to see that University officials took a strong stand hehind the students. I suggest that until this situa­tion is satisfactorily r.onr.ludcd, students should boycott Denny's anrt all othrr commercial establishments in Roseland. 
Your dollars, or lack thernof, are very important to the sur­vival of the Hoselancl business community. 
B. Michael Nagel, M.D. 
Class ol 1976 March 9, 2000 

Baseball is beautiful 
To the Fighting Irish baseball team and the Notre Dame com­munity: Please know how lucky you are. 
As a 1999 graduate of Provide.nee College, I had the opportunity to experience four great years of Big Easl baseball. Throughout my four years at Providence, the thing I most looked forward to each spring was the crack or the bats heard throughout campus. Thal souncl not only signaled that winter was coming to a close, but it meant that it was time to saunter over to the field to watch tlw sport I love most. 

And now. mon~ than ever. I am grateful for those days. As the l'ornwr assistant sports editor of Providence's school newspaper, I was able to know the ins and outs of the Friar baseball team and was right there in the thick of last year's Title IX disaster. In order Lo comply with the NCM's gender equity rules, the team lost its funding and went into the '98-'99 season knowing it would be the last lime they played ball as part of their team. For the seniors, it was their final chance to show what they were really made of and to be leaders for the rest of the players. As for the others. the loss of the baseball program would caµse some play­ers to turn pro early, others to transfer to other Big East and non­<·.onl'Prence programs and still others to come to terms with no longer being a part of collegiate baseball altogether. .Just when it secnwd as though the team had lost everything, they proved to tbrmsrlves and to tlw rest of' the Providence College community lh_al llwy were truly winners as they left a legacy in their wake. I ·w1tm•sscd a team whosci hearts had been broken carry on an enormously successful season culminating in the ultimate victory of a Big East Championship title. 
I !ward that familiar, long-awaited sound -the crack of the bats -on Tuesday and again felt that burst of excitement. Yet this time, I was walking into Eck Stadium at Notre Dame, and I ~'.asn:t wat_ching the black-and-white Friars but the blue-and-gold 1-tghtmg fnsh. 1was fJXcited to be watching baseball again and, better yet, to sec Notre Dame come away with a win. As a Notre Dame grad student this year, I am thankful to be able to continue being a part of the thrill of Big East baseball and to have the OJ?P<ll'~tmity to watch a few of the former Friars compete as part of tlw1r new Learns. Yet, at tlrn same time, I rcgnit that the Providt'nce rnnimunity will not be able to see their team defend tlwir Big East title. 
To tlw Notre Dame community: Please get out there and watch some games this season. Support your team. You would be amazed at how quickly it r,ould all vanish. Know that for most of the players. this sport is their life. They am proud to wear those uniforms and to h1• a part of this school and their team. and you should be proud of them too. . To tlrn Fighting Irish baseball team: Enjoy every minute. The ,1oy. !ht\ tears. thf' sweat, the dirt. the extrn innings, the closP wins -PH'll lhe Lough losses. Ima.gine what ii would feel like to Jose it all. _Be a tr.am and work together. Know that you have an oppor­tumty that ~o many people wish they had. 13e confident. Set a goal to accomplish and expect nothing less. 
Most of' all. with the Providence College Friars being unable to dd1md their title, bring honw a Big East Championship. 
Kim S. Galipeau Gradume Sruden1, Sociology March 8, 1000 

We shouldn't have to ask 
On Tuesday, I was speaking with a fellow stu­dent about OUTreachND, the unofficial gay, les­bian, bisPxual and questioning student group of which I am treasurer and proud member. 
He said to me, "I support your cause, but your community upsets me because they ask for so much. 'We want, we want, we want,' is all I hear." In my answer I feel I have some­thing to say to Notre Dame at large. 
Let me explain to all of you who ask this same question. You worked hard in high school in order to get here. right? So did I. [ was involved in just as many clubs, activi­ties and sports. I did just as much for my church. I had just as many com­munity service hours. My grades were just as commendable and my test scores just as high. I earned my place here just like you. 
And yes, I am bisexual. 
Now: almost two years into Notre Dame, I have experienced what many ethnic minorities here at Notre Dame have: the loneli­ness, alienation and the all too frequent com­ments, some ignorant and some intentionally cruel. As a member of the gay, lesbian and bisex­ual community though. I experience something other minorities do not: the constant and unfail-
I am not a Catholic. 
I was baptized into the United Methodist Church and have lived as a Methodist all my life. As an outsider, I have long admired the willingness of Catholics to use self-control instead of birth control. Much of that admiration comes when I realize the ease of obtaining birth control and the pride many Catholics take in reject­ing their usage of such devices and instead acting based on their love for Christ as taught by the Catholic perspective. 
St. Augustine discusses some­thing similar when he speaks of the unity of the heavenly and earthly cities. The heavenly city is the community of Christians within a given society; lhe earthly city is the communitv of non-believers. The laws of the land are derived from those principles which both cities give mutual consent to help them achieve peace on earth. Above and beyond those principles, the members of the celestial city are called to an extra order of laws which will help them to achieve the presence of God. Their love for Christ inspires them to enact with a moral code above and beyond that of the natural law. 
St. Thomas Aquinas also par­allels these,concepts. Ile teach­es that there are two branches of law: natural and revealed law. Natural law includes the laws of the universe which peo­ple can learn based on reason, like the principle of gravitation or the attraction of opposite electrostatic forces. Revealed law, on the other hand, includes those laws of the uni­verse only made known through the teaching of the Church, such as the authority of the Bible, the role of Christ in salvation and similar ideas. 
The work of modern social and deductive science has shown that homosexuality exists within a given percent­age of humankind. Gay people are distributed regularly through every nation. religion, and family. Thus, the existance of people who have a natural inclination toward attraction to their sex is part of natural law. 
The Church teaches that the homosexual orientation amoral. This is because it is part of the natural law. ''Homosexuals who are definitively such because of some kind of innate instinct" (Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith. Declaration on Certain Questions Concerning Sexual Ethics, 1975, n.8). However, the revealed law, according to the ofTicial teach­ing of' the Church, is such that ing efforts of the administration to tell me I am a sinner, that I am "objectively disordered," I am unworthy and unwanted and that I deserve no legal protection from harassment or violence. These sentiments are whispered in the hallways 

and shouted in the Viewpoint pages. I knew before coming here that Notre Dame was a Catholic uni­versity. And somehow I thought that meant love and tolerance. To me, those values, having been spo­k1m by Christ, stand above doctrine written by any human -even a pope. 
Jesus, quoting Isaiah, said, "This people honors me with their lips, but their hearts are far 
from me; in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrine 
human precepts," {Mark 7:6-7). To me the question is 

not, "Why do I ask for so much?" but rather, "Why should I have to ask at all?" 
Michaela C. Murray-Nolan Sophomore Executive Board Member and Treasurer. OUTreach ND Member, Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs Breen-Phillips Hall March 8. 2000 
the homosexual orientation is one ordered to an act of disor­der. Thus, it is an object disor­der. Therefore, gay Catholics are called to live celibate lives in fulfillment of the role of human sexuality. 
However, what about other gays? Because the revealed law of Catholics is not available to non-Catholics, it follows that viewing homosexuality as an objective disorder would not be expected to them. Thus, it is unjust to legislate against the fulfillment of their naturally­ordered sexuality. 
It was the insistance of the founders of this nation of free­dom from a legislated revealed theology that allowed Roman Catholics into this Protestant nation. To argue for legislation based on not natural, but revealed Roman Catholic theol­ogy is heretical to the very foundations of this nation. 
Proposition 22 thus serves as a purpose which directly oppos­es the existance of Catholicism in the United States. 
LR. Matthew Blancett Morissey Manor March 9. 2000 



O
THE page 10 BSERVER Friday, March 10, 2000 

Scene takes a look at the history of high stakes game shows, from the sc 
By BRIDGET MAHONEY Scene Writer 
"Is that your final answer?" 
No doubt everyone has heard that expression in some form: it's the most recent catch phrase to take over the nation. Besides the overwhelming popularity of its source, ABC's "Who Wants to Re a Millionaire?," those five words refer to the nationwide hunger to make a million big ones instantly. It's not just one TV quiz show, but a whole slew of them, plus their numerous Internet spin-off sweepstakes, that have taken over primetime. Every network's got one. While ABC treasures its trend-setting quiz show, Fox took the idea and added a ruthless twist to create "Greed: The Series"; NBC brought back "Twenty-One," which suffered a scandal in the 1950s and CBS intro­duced "Winning Lines." 
The dramatic question 
It's 8 p.m. Tuesday night on ABC. The familiar voice of 
like the thump of a beating heart silences the audience. "On what date is Abraham Lincoln's actual birthday? Is it: a) February 12, 
b) February 14, c) February 18 or d) February 22?" the host asks. 
Hey, I know the answer 
An interesting point of difference between the quiz shows of the 1950s and those of today is the questions' degree of difficulty. Some argue that the questions now are nowhere near as hard as they used to be, which they say is a reflection on the intelligence of the genMal public. 
"There really has been a dumbing down. In the old davs, we had arcane and esoteric stuff. it was designed to make the audience gape," said 73­year old Herbert Stempel, who appeared on "Twenty-One" in the 1950s, in a recent Washington Post interview. 
But perhaps the fact that they can answer the questions effortlessly is the greater draw for today's audi­ence. These shows make the common 
Regis Philbin invites person feel smart;
"There really has been a 

the audience, both in now who wouldn't
dumbing down [in the

the studio and want that? watching at home, to game shows]. In the old another episode of 
days, we had arcane and Help, please 
"Who Wants To Be A 
esoteric stuff It was After pondering
Millionaire?" After the question for a
showing clips from designed to make the 
few moments, Patty
the previous episode, 
audience gape. " makes a request: ''I'd
he welcomes back 
like to use a lifeline.
Patty from I'd like to ask the
Wisconsin, who will Herbert Stempel 
audience."
begin at the $4,000 1950s ''Twenty-One" contestant 
Within seconds, the mark. 
Centered in the futuristically designed stage area, Regis and Patty sit in two elevated chairs with computer screens attached. With a metallic gray tie to contrast with his black shirt and jack­et, Regis fits in with the dramatic environment. On the other hand, Patty looks like she could be anyone's next door neighbor. The camera pans to her boyfriend sitting in the audi­ence. Dressed comfortably, he is a bright-eyed man sitting on the edge of his seat and grinning widely at the mention of his name. 
"It's time to play 'Who Wants To Be A Millionaire'!" booms Regis. Even though the rules are well-known, he reminds the contestant that she still has her three lifelines left: the 50-50, asking the audience and phoning a friend. As the stage dims, lights flash around in an arc and stop in the cen­ter. Melodramatic music sounding 
top right corner of 
the TV screen dis­plays a graph revealing that 53 per­cent of the audience chose answer "a." Patty decides to use that answer. 
"Is that your final answer?" 
"Yes, that's my final answer." 
"Yeah. They did it!" Regis bursts out with his characteristic smile, reveal­ing a set of sparkling white teeth. 
A calming presence 

"I really like Regis," said American studies professor Susan Ohmer. "He's down to earth. I think, sometimes, the guests seem arrogant. I like the host." 
A key element in the quiz show phe­nomenon is the appeal of the host. For that reason, recognizable names such as Chuck Woolery from "The Love Connection," Maury Povich from "The Maury Povich Show" and Dick Clark from "American Bandstand" are used as hosts to draw in an audience for "Greed," "Twenty-One" and "Winning Lines" respectively. Such personalities add a sense of familiari­ty to the dramatic ups and downs of these games. 
The dream 
After a few more correctly answered questions, with the help of lifeline or two, Regis pauses the game to chat with Pattv about her millionaire dreams. 
"So what do you plan on doing with your money, Patty?" Regis asked. 
"I'd like to go to Las Vegas and dou­ble my money with my winnings," she said, the flush in her cheeks and wide smile giving away the thrill of such a prospect. 
Some argue that these shows demonstrate the latest version of the American Dream. No longer is perse­vering the long road to fortune the popular ideal. Now it is taking a shortcut to the top of the economic ladder in one swift stroke of luck. And the rapid rise of the Internet and its technol­ogy is one of the culprits, critics say. 
"You see this (especiallyl with people coming out of college," Ohmer said. "They just want to join a big Internet company and make money. In that sense, it's not good. 
o• __, 

Their odds aren't great." 
Since the Internet has become a sta­ple of work, schools and the home, people feel that they can also take part in this strike-it-rich business. The "Who" in "Who Wants to be a Millionaire?" means virtually anyone. 
The contestants on these quiz shows support this concept; they don't look or act like movie stars. They have 

SCENE ASKS 
What would you do if you won $1 million? 
'Td buy an eight-! oot long ''I'd try to pay ojJmy · 

'Td get rid ofmy urban-assault-camouflage education, then get the virginity. " naugahyde couch, a new Ford Mustang I'd always atomic purple Nintendo wanted. I'd go on a tour Dan Fisher controller and an implant ofEurope and take all my freshman, Carroll Hall for my right pectoral muscle. 
friends out to Reckers.,, [It is smaller than my left.]" 
Kristen Moskow Teddy Bolanos freshman, Lewis Hall freshman, Keough Hall 


O
THE Friday, March 10, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
dalous runs on the 1950s to todays record-breaking hits across the tube 
their quirks and flaws, whether it is an obnoxious laugh or a fashion sense dating back to the 1970s. But that's where the appeal lies; the show's audience can relate to them. 
"The key is, the show has heart. You're rooting for the people on the show," said Michael Davies, executive producer of "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire," in a NPw York Times interview. 
The history 

This was the attraction of the quiz shows in the 1950s as well. With only a few exceptions, the contestants on these programs, such as "The $64,000 Question," "Tic-Tac-Dough" and "Twenty-One," were all versions of the working class persona. Herbert Stempel, a veteran from Queens working and attending city college, exemplified this persona. 
In 1958, after losing his title as defending champion on "Twenty-One" to Charles Van Doren, a Columbia University professor and member of the esteemed Van Doren family, Stempel revealed that the show was fixed. He claimed that the producers controlled who did or did not continue by giving them answers. Because Stempel continued to win, his "unbeatable" quality had made him unpopular and thus, unprofitable, so the producers brought in the refresh­ing noble man, Van Doren. 
After Stempel's allegations were insufficiently investigated by a New York grand jury, the House of Representatives special subcommittee on legislative oversight confirmed the 
allegations. Van Doren confessed that he was also provided with the questions before his appearances on each show. He justified his par­ticipation in the fraud on the grounds that he believed he was strengthening the value of edu­cation and the intellect through his celebrity. By his example, he argued he had made learning fun and accessi­ble to the TV generation. 
For younger 
generations who did not witness the "Twenty-One" scandal, Robert Redford's 1994 film, "Quiz Show," recreated that event, as well as some of the ruthless inner workings of the quiz show phenomenon. Ultimately, it demonstrated the quiz show was about ratings and profitability for the sponsors. 
The Renaissance 
After the height of quiz show popu­larity in 1958, the genre declined as a consequence of the scandals. Yet, the genre is back in full throttle today, and many wonder, "Why now?" 
NBC's rebirth of "Twenty-One" is especially risky. But, according to Ohmer, "They think that people have forgotten. TV tends to recycle, as movies do." 
This rebirth raises the question of just how much of quiz show history has been recycled. Are the shows as authentic as they seem or are they fixed as well? 
"I hope not," said Ohmer. "In the '50s, they were fixed because the sponsors wanted to control the con­testants." 
In some cases, that is 
"sky high." The
still true. Fox's "Qualified entrant will be evaluated 
ratings on NBC,
"Greed: The by sponsor's representative on the 
CBS and FoxSeries," recog­
basis of the entrant's answers to were not.
nized as a 
"deliberate these questions and on subjective imitation" of criteria including charm, The end 
"Millionaire," Viewers lean
communication skills and sense of
lives up to its in, focusing name. Reading humor." their eyes on the fine print the contestant of the rules as she deter­
Official Rules and Regulations
and regulations mines her fate.
"Greed"

the The music
exposes immense scope of power pos­sessed by the sponsors. The "Rules and Regulations" on the "Greed" Web site states: "Qualifying entrant will be evaluated by sponsor's representative on the basis of the entrant's answers to these questions and on subjective criteria including charm, communica­tion skills and sense of humor ... Sponsor reserves the right to, and intends to, select contestants to play 'Greed' via means other than through the sweepstakes." 
Being personally appealing or of entertainment value to the sponsor is a requisite, no matter how smart a person is. Like the 1950s quiz shows, "Greed" seems to function primarily as a moneymaker for its sponsors. The difference is, they're not trying to hide it, now. 
Not all of the current quiz shows appear to maintain the same stan­dards though. Most viewers would place "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire'?" high above the rest. The Nielsen ratings confirm that. The show has consistently been at the top of the polls, and it won November Sweeps month. 
Another reason why the networks produce quiz shows to compete with "Millionaire" is their potential to be especially profitable. "They're really cheap to produce: $150,000 per show," said Ohmer. "A primetime drama is $1 million, [so] it's really inexp1msive. Networks like this and advertisers line up to do them." 
Among the benefits of "Millionaire" for ABC is the show's effectiveness in breaking NBC's long reign as the top TV network. As a result, a 30-second commercial spot during "Millionaire" costs $300,000 to $350,000 versus the typical cost of $100,000 to $200,000. 
Also, the show serves as a lead-in for ABC's entire evening line-up. For President Bill Clinton's State of the Union Address on January 27, which followed its prized quiz show, ABC's 
ratings were 
intensifies , 
question by question, consequently raising Patty's anxiety level as well as that of the audience. Each question is a delicate step toward her million. Just one slip­up and she's through. Will it be this question? That is what's surely on the minds of everyone glued to the TV screen. 
Once again, Regis proposes a bit of trivia and she gives her "final answer." With a sudden musical scale rising and falling, it is clear that her answer was truly her "final answer." The studio sighs sympathetically as Patty bids a sad farewell to the path to instant wealth. ­
But it's all right, for the game will restart its dramatic course with a new, eager contestant wondering, "Will I become a millionaire too?" 

''I'd pay offmy school loan, then buy a ranch in Mexico.,, 
Sonia Hernandez sophomore, Le Mans Hall 
_..., 

'Td hit Vegas, have a drive­
through wedding, lose most of .,. the money, eventually come back to Notre Dame with $5 
and work as a card-swiper in the dining hall. It's my dream." 
Ted Devlin junior, Alumni Hall 


"Fifty percent is going to buy cars for my_friends, family and professors. Twenty-five percent is for my favorite charity. The other 2.r; percent I'd keep for myself" 
Courtnle Takata junior, McCandless Hall 
page l 2 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 10, 2000 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Boschee hits seven 3s for Kansas' first round victory 
As•ociated P re•s 
Jeff Boschee hit seven 3-pointers in the first half as No. 24 Kansas routed Kansas in the first round of the Big 12 tourna­ment and possibly Tom Asbury's last game as Wildcats' coach. 
Boschee, a streaky outside shooter, set the school record for 3-pointers in a half by going 7-for-8. I-le scored all 21 of his points in the first half as Kansas {23-8) romped to its 19th straight victory over Kansas State (9-19). 
Asbury. the object of increasing criti­cism after finishing last in the regular­season race and never beating Kansas, fell to 0-20 lifetime against the Jayhawks. including three games while he was at Pepperdine. 
In Friday's second round. the Jayhawks will play No. 17 Oklahoma State (23-5), which handp,d them the third-worst Joss in school history on Feb. 7, 86-53. 
Asbury, who has two years left on his contract and has said he will not resign, also finished last in his first season at Kansas State in 1994-95. If this turns out to be his final year, he would leave with an 85-88 mark and be the first Kansas State coach with an overall losing record since Fritz Knorr in 1 q45. 
Boschee µut up only one shot in the sec­ond half as Kansas shuffled reserves in and out of the game after taking a 50-23 halftime lead en route to its 10th straight Big 12 tournament victory. 
The Jayhawks led by as many as 37 tw:ice during the second half 
Kenny Gregory finished with 12 points for Kansas. Nick Collison added 11 and Eric Chenowith and Marlon London had 10 apiece. 
Cortez Groves had 15 for Kansas State, which lost 16 of its last 18 games. 
No. 14 Tulsa 71, Rice 51. 
Eric Coley and the Tulsa Golden Hurricane made quick work of Rice in the opening game of the Western Athletic Conference tournament. 
Coley had a block, assist, steal and reverse layup in an early spurt as No. 14 Tulsa routed Rice. 
Sixth-man David Shelton, who scored 20 points, and Brandon Kurtz, with 14, carried Tulsa most of the way as the Golden Hurricane won their 28th game, breaking the school record of 27 set in 1983-84. 
Tulsa {28-3), the top seed in the WAC tournament, will face the winner of the San Jose State-Texas Christian game. 
Erik Cooper scored all 14 of his points in the second half as he tried to make it a game for outmatched Rice (5-22). Mike Wilks added 10 points. 
Playing before a mostly empty SeUand Arena, Coley made a key hlock on T.J. McKenzie's layup in the first, fed Kurtz for a three-point play, then stole the ball and beat his man on tlw brnak for a 7-0 lead. 
The Owls never got closer. They were held scoreless for nearly the first six min­utes and had trouble finding the basket from just about anywlH>,re but the foul line', scoring eight of their 18 first-half points on free throws. 
Kurtz, playing 100 miles north of his hometown of Bakersfield, and Shelton each scored 10 of their points in the first half, as the Hurricane shot nearly 50 per­cent from the field. 
Trailing 38-18 at the break after shoot­ing 18 percent from the Door, Hice picked up the pace in the second half but it was too late, as Tulsa never let the game get closer than 12 points. 
Tulsa has beaten Rice six straight times. 
No. 6 Temple 71, Virginia 52 
John Chaney doesn't care that Temple hasn't won the Atlantic 10 Conference tournament since 1990. Losing, he said, might even be a good thing. 
But the No. 6 Owls looked far less char­itable than their·toach on Thursdav, beginning their quest for the A-10 ti tie with a victory against Virginia Tech. 
Mark Karcher scored 17 points and Pepe Sanchp,z added nine points and live assists as Temple (24-5) advanced to a semifinal game against Massachusetts. 
Temple, which has reached the final eight four times in the last 12 years, lost 62-59 at tbe buzzer to Hhode Island in the A-10 championship last year. Ifs a Jowpoint his players remember all too well, and want to erase from their minds this year. 
Virginia Tech (16-15) stayed close early as Brendan Dunlop hit two 3-pointers, but the Owls used two 9-0 runs to open a 33-17 lead late in the first half and never were threatened. 
The Hokies, again playing without sus­pended scoring and rebounding leader Dennis Mims, trailed 36-22 at halftime and got no closer than 11 in the second half 
Mims, who averaged 14.2 points and 7,6 rebounds and made 52.6 percent of his shots during the season, was suspend­ed before the tournament for violating unspecified team rules and did not a('(:ompany the team to Philadelphia. 
Sanchez was 3-l'or-3 from 3-point rangP, including a baseline jumper that gave Temple a 57-36 lead with 8:30 remaining. Sanchez added live rebounds, three steals and only one turnover. 
Temple, 9-0 against Virginia Tech, attempted 27 3-pointers. including 15 on its 25 shots in the first half. The Owls hit 
10. Virginia Tflch was 8-of-23 from 3­point rangP. Brian Chase led the Hokies with 16 poinL'l and Dunlop added 12. 
The game marked the last time Virginia Tech would compete in tlrn Atlantic 10. ThA Hokies will play in lhe Hig East con­ference next season. 
No. 21 Conn. 79, Seton Hall 64 
Things have changed for Connecticut since Khalid El-Amin hit a buzzer-beater to beat West Virginia. The Huskies havn won four straight since that running shot, the latest a Big East quarterfinal victory over Seton Hall. 
The 5-foot-10 junior guard scored 24 of his 30 points in the first half and the l'ourth-set>dr.d Huskies held off a second­half run by the Pirates as they moved a step closer to winning a third straight Big East championship. 
The 21st-ranked lluskies {23-8) advanced to Friday night's semifinals against ninth-seeded Georgetown (18-13), which beat top-seeded Syracuse 76-72 Thursday. Big East history will be made regardless of who wins because no team that has played in the opening round has ever even advanced to the championship game. 
El-Amin. Connecticut's leading scorer at 16.4 points a game, had 24 points in the first half on 10-of-12 shooting as the lluskies took a 43-29 lead. 
But the fifth-seeded Pirates (20-9) used an 8-0 run to get within 52-49 with 13:58 to play. They were within 54-51 on two free throws by Ty Shine with 12:31 left­when Albr,rt Mouring's 3-pointer started a 15-1 run that gave the Huskies a 69-52 lead with 8:05 left. 
Seton Hall never got closer than 13 points the rest of the way. 
Connecticut's deciding run included a technical foul called against Seton Hall coach Tommy Amaker. 

El-Amin made two free throws on the technical, and Kevin Freeman scored on a rebound on tlrn ensuing possession to cap a run of 11 straight points. 
"Certainly this was a disappointing loss for us because we had the opportunity. to make a run and try to get back in the gamP after being down by a lot in the first half," Amaker said. "Mouring's 3 took a Jot of' wind out of us.'' 
Amakf'r was matter-of-fart in talking about the technical, "I thought a foul should have !wen called and l said so," he said. 
The victory was the eighth straight in Big East tournament play fbr the Huskies. a streak that dates to the quarterfinals of the 1998 tournament. Connecticut had won a total of 10 games in the first 18 tournaments. 
The win was the seventh straight for Connecticut over Seton I lall, a streak that included two games this season. In those games El-Amin had a total of 27 points, It was also the Huskies' fifth straight victory overall, 
Georgetown 76, No. 1.2 Syracuse 72 
Kevin Braswell scored 20 points and dished out eight assists and Lee Scruggs had 20 points, as Georgetown upset 12th­ranked Syracuse in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament at Madison Square Garden. The lloyas became Urn first-ever ninth seed to topple a top seed in the Big East tourney. 
Georgetown (18-13) will meet Connecticut in the semifinals on Friday. Etan Thomas paced the Orangemen (24-5) with 17 points. 
The Hoyas led by double digits with just over four minutes to play. But the 'Cus11 pulled within three, 70-67, when a Damone Brown basket with 37.8 seconds to go followed a traveling call against Scruggs with 43. 7 seconds remaining. 
Georgetown responded with a pair of free throws by Demetrius Hunter, giving the eventual winners a 72-67 advantage with 36.2 seconds left. 
The biggest play in the final minute came when Braswell stole the ball for the I loyas with 20 seconds left and converted a pair of free throws, after a foul call, f'or a 74-69 contest with 18.9 seconds to go. 
Georgetown, which led 33-30 at the half, held on from there. Ruben Boumtje­Boumtje added 12 points for the Hoyas. 
Brown netted 15 points ior the Orange, while Jason Hart and DeShaun Williams, who would eventually foul ou. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 r.m. at ,he Noire Dame off.ce, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
maintain existing sites. 277-0033  look! New Home for Rent 3/4  your heart out! Thanks for all the  
NOTICES  WANTED  www.nkn.com  FOR RENT  Bedroom 3 Bath. Cathedral Ceilings, Fireplace.  memories and for putting up with me when I came in at 4 a.m.  
ATTENTION  SOUND  ENGi·  refrig, range, disp, dishwasher &  from work last year! Can't wait to  
NEERS  dryer, gas heat/ CIA, 2-car  party with you in Fla.  
GRADUATION ROOMS AVAIL  ASPIRING WRITERS!  Local  Sound  Company  has  Available Summer '00 & '00-01.  garage, family  
ABLE!  www.maincampus.com seeks  openings for experienced FOH  4-student rental house ... Security  room, close to campus.  Shana , ruby red slippers, the  
Need hotel rooms for graduation  students  engineers and stage hands. Call  System,  Air  Conditioned,  616-683-5038  backer ... need I say more?  
- week end?  for stories ranging from  277  0032  Laundry..  219-232-4527  
There are still rooms available in  Politics/Sex/Culture/Opinions  www.thesoundcompany.com  Dave 291-2209.  219-340-1844  Wad-a: one more classified for  
the Michiana area for graduation  $25 per story!  my favorite ghetto rap star!  You  
2000. For more information, please contact Anthony Travel  Email us at: earn@maincam· pus.com  GRAPHIC LAYOUT International racing publication  ffNB REGISTRY 219-291-7153  FOR SALE  soooo jersey, girl!  
at 1 x7080 or in the La Fortune  has opening for computer graph  Long live THe O!!!!  
basement.  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  ics layout person. Looking for  B&B for ND grad & Football  
Make a difference in the lite of a  fresh excillng designs to improve  3 miles 4 rooms.  New Phone Card  THanks for staying b/c I just ain't  
child'  Summer therapy camp for  estaolished magazine. Flexiole  287-4545  886 mins. $20. 258-4805 or 243­ no good at this production stuff1  
Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls  handicapped children.  Located on  hours, 277-0033  9361  
....  Research. http://www geocities.com:80/Athens/  shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, Ml. for Nature/Arts &  Editor/proof reader needed to  HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed room, $1000/~onth. 2) 4-bed  Please let these line up1  
Rhodes/7031 /deadsea.html  Crafts/Recreat1on/Canoeing/Kayaki ng. Nurses, Therapists. Food  work with writers for national publication. Flexible hours. Call  room, $900/month. 3) 3-bedr oom. $700. Cell Bill at 675-0776.  PERSONAL  anyone up for Nick's?  
Service and Auxiliary. Musi be  277-0033  We'll make almost any  Funny, I'm learning way too  
LOST & FOUND  enthusiastic, responsible, and love children June 11 through August  The South Bend Parks &  changes to lhe houses.  www.thecommentator.com  much about you guys tonight!  
6. Salary, room & board, and expe­ Recreation Department (The City  1721 Rerick 3 Bedroom, Family  FULL COLOR  
FOUND  rience of lifetime provided  Call or  of South Bend) is currently  room with Fireplace, Fenced  Copying  Come on it's my lasl night'  
Gold Wedding Band wl inscribed  write for application and informa·  accepting applications for golf  Backyard, CIA  Printing  
date  outside bookstore.  lion.  Bay Clift Health Camp, 310  rangers, concessions, beverage  Gas Heat, Across From Park,  Scanning  
Call 219-634-1892  W. Washington,  Suite  300,  cart drivers (must be 21) and  Very Safe  Observer crew ­ Thanks for  
Marquette, Ml 49855, (906) 228·  other seasonal help. Pay ranges  Neighborhood  THE COPY SHOP  making this a great last night.  
FOUND: GOLD & SILVER TWO­ 5770, e-mail BayCliffHC@aolcom  from 56.00-$8.00 per hour. Apply  $995/mo 12 mo. lease  Lafortune Student Center  Nobody else could make a year  
TONE WATCH IN FIELD  at the County City Bldg. 14th  Call 232-4527 Close to Campus  Call 631·COPY  in a basement such a blast.  
BEHIND O'NEILL ON MONDAY,  WEB DESIGNER NEEDED  floor EOE  219-340-1844, 616-683-5038  n the name of The O ~  M'Shan  
316. CALL KATHLEEN  National Publication has openi~g  Marie• you are my classified  
4-0562.  for designer to help improve and  goddess! Rick Springfield eat  


Friday, March, l 0, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page I 3 
JUNIORS' SWIM SEPARATES 
.. 

PICK YOUR FAVORITE PIECES TO CREATE THE PERFECT SUIT 

JANTZEN HIIPPIE HAWAIIAN COLLECTION 
TRIANGLE TOP, $31 HALTER TOP, $31 BOY-LEQ BOTTOMS, $31 SCOOP BOTTOMS, $25 

ESPRIT CRACKLE PINEAPPLE COLLECTION 
TANKINI, $36 SKIRT WITH BRIEF, $34 UNDERWIRE TOP, $52 TRIANGLE TOP, $36 BOY-LEG BOTTOMS, $36 SCOOP BOTTOMS, $32 SIDE-TIE BIKINI BOTTOMS, $34 
-

REBEL BEACH TRESTLES TRAIL COLLECTION 
TUBE TOP, $38 TRIANGLE TOP, $32 SCOOP BOTTOMS, $28 FRENCH SCOOP BOTTOMS, $32 

THIS IS WHERE IT GETS GOOD 
• -Q QC 
Friday, March l 0, 2000
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
.. 
BASEBALL 
Heilman ready to heat up in Florida 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Spores Writer 
Coming off one of the greatest starts in team history, the Notre Dame baseball team will spend its spring break in sunny Jacksonvile, Fla., as they take part in the Kennel Club Classk. 
There is no winner of the tournament, whkh is comprised mainlv of teams from the north­ern United States. 
"The thing that's really nicfl about the tournament from our standpoint is that 
you havfl the "/ got out to a slow start Paul a rest opportunity to go my first two outing, but f now and 
to warm weath-thr,n." er. play on a felt a lot better On Sunday, beautiful field," this past weekend." Notre Damr, said head coach takes on Paul Mainieri. Aaron Heilman Midwest rival 
"But vou 're also I I I i n o i s . playiiig the Irish pitcher F res h m a n 
majority of your games against other schools from thr, North that arc dealing with the same disadvantagP.s of being at the same stage in thflir season that we am." 
As opposed to all other tour­naments, whflre players and r.oachcs stay together at a hotel, athletes will live with Notre 0ame alumni in the area. This lets the players enjoy their spring break while still compet­ing. 
"Living in hotels every week­end gets real monotonous," junior shortstop Alec Porzel said. "It's nice not to reallv have a schedule to follow an·d just show up at the game and be ready to play each day. Being away from the team and the coaches is real nice." 
On Saturday, the lrish partir­ipatc in two games at Wolfson Park. In the first game. l\'otre Dame takes on Duquesne. 
Duquesne comes off of a 32­24 season in which they finished third in the Atlantic-IO West. Starting the game for the Irish is ar.e Aaron Heilman, who recordfld 12 strikeouts in his laststart. 
"I got off to a slow start my lin;t two outings, but I felt a lot better this past weekend." llcilman said. "Hopefully things 
THE OBSERVER: 
WORK FOR
-
US! 

will r.ontinue to do well and we'll continue to win." 
In the second game, the Irish take on the Chippt>was of Central Michigan. Starting the game for the Irish is senior Scott Cavey, who is corning off two dominating wins. 
To relieve the stress on sopho­more catcher Paul 0'Toole, senior Malt Nussbaum will makP his. sec(md cari~er start behind the plate for the Irish. 
'Tm glad that Matt can comn in there and catch for us," Mainieri said. "We're going to 
need to give 
Matt Laird flarns the start after an impres­sive outing against Minnoso1.a last weekend. Illinois is currnnt­ly ranked as one of the Top 25 teams in the nation. 
On Monday, the Irish wHI face the Osprey of North Florida before taking a day off on Tuesday. 
On Wednesday, Indiana state rival Butler takes on Notre Dame. The starting pitchers in these games arc yet to bn det11r­mined. 
On Thursdav, Heilman returns to the mc)llnd as Iowa presents his latest challenge. The llawkeyes finished 10th in the Big Ten last season. 
Laird starts against Akron on Priday. Akron recently beat Ohio State, a ranked team that has alrcadv defeated the Irish this season." 
In the last game in Florida, the Irish once again take on Illinois as Cavey makes his sec­ond start. 
The Irish will be playing the tournament without the services of senior co-captain Jeff PercontP.. 
Perconte, who injured his shoulder in Minnesota last weekend, is out indefinitely. Bnn Cooke will be the starter at sec­ond base. 
rF_u_ll--t-im-~-~-ol-~-ge_s_~-d-~-t-~--­
graduate. Starting salary, $32,000. Post offer mental and physical screening. 
Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for an interview 1-877-299-9397 www.MarineOfficer.com 
FENCING 
Irish head to regional qualifier 

By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
The stakes are just a bit higher this weekend as the Irish fencing team travels to Appleton, Wisc., for the N C A A !legional Qualifier. 
T h e Irish will send ·1 8 foneers to compete for a pos­sible 12 N o t r o D a m e slots in Championship. 
Whilo the NCAA tourna­ment is still three w1rnks away. the Irish must plar,e at least two fenr.ors from each weapon in tlrn top eight to have any shot at the national title. 
If the Irish don't qualiry two fencers at each Wflapon, they won't be able to score enough points to win the title at the NCAA Championship. 
After placing at lflast two fencers in the top eight of last weekend's Midwest Championship (a tournament similar to the NCAA Regional). the Irish are 
confident that they will qualify 12 r~rncers this weekend. 
"I think things are look­ing promising heading into NCAAs," frnshman cpeeist Anna Carnick said. "When you look at the top eight and see a lot of Notre Dame people fencing each other, it's a good sign. I think we will do pretty well." 
The men should have no 
All Shows Before 6 PM $4.00 
i4.1){1 Studcn1s/Childn.~n/Scni11rs $6.511 Adull Stereo Surround Sound m all Thcillr~S 
'1.merican Beauty R 
1:30 4:15 7:10 9:50 
Omwning Mona R 
12:45 3:00 5:15 7:35 10:05 
Erin 8rockovick A SPECIAL SNEAK PREVIEW ON SAT 3111 STAY ANO SEE PITCH BLACK FOR FREE 
Hanging Up  PG13  
9:30  
Mission to Mars  PG  SS--New  
1:15 4:05 7:15 10:00  
My Dog Skip  PG  
1:05  3:20  5:35 7:45  9:55  
Ninth Gale  R  SS~Naw  
1:00 3:55 7:00 10:10  
Pitch Black  A  
2:05 4:30  7:05  9:50  
Reindeer Games  R  SS  

12:50 3:15 5:35 8:00 10:25 Sc,eam 3 A 10:25 
Snow Day PG 
1:10 3:25 5:40 7·55 
The Next Best Thing PG13 
1:20 4 10 7:00 9:35 The Tigger Mov~ G 12 55 2:50 4:45 7:20 
The Who!e Nine Yards R 
12:45 3:05 5:30 7:55 10:20 
Thre9 Strikes R 
1;05 3:20 5:25 7:30 9,40 What Planet Aro You From A 1:55 4:35 7:25 1015 

NOTRE DAME HOCKEY 
CCHA 1st Round-TONIGHT 7pm 
Saturday, and Sunday@Joyce Center Possible "Play-In" Game (March 14) Joyce Center 
r::,_ .. ,. 
First 150 students are free! Pick up tickets at Joyce Center Ticket office. $6 after the 150 free tickets 
problem qualifying six while McCullough took fencers. r,ighth. 
Throughout the year, the One of them must rnmain Irish have dominated their in the top eight this wer,kend Midwes-t competition and to qualify for the tournamPnt. should continue that domina­In epee, Carnick. the tion in Appleton. :vtidwest champion, should 
"I think we are looking have no problem qualifying. pretty good," sophomore lier teammate. howevrr. sabreman Andre Crompton Meagan Call finished sixth at 
said. "I think we will qual­

"I think things are are 
ify everyone. 

looking promising head­
W11 just need to stay ing into NCAAs. When healthy and 
you look at at the top
mentally 

eight and see a lot of
strong head­ing into Notre Dame people fenc­NCAAs." 
ing eath othere, it's a 
T h e 
good sign. " 
women, howev11r, have a fight 
Anna Carnick 
ahnad. · 

freshman epeeist
While both 
I. i z a 

Midwests. 
"It won't be easy in wom!'n s sabre or womPn's opflr," Irish head coach Yves Auriol said. 
A u r i o I feels that not l'rncing in a tourna­ment for lwo Wfleks might have playrd 
Boutsikaris and Magda Krol a fartor at least wr!'k's should qualify in women's Midwest Championship. This foil, women's epee and sabre weekend, howflver, the Irish arc areas of concern. will br. sharper, according to 
Freshman Natalia Mazur is Au riol. seeded Ii rst in the region in "We didn't do anything f'or womcn's sabre but Cariannc two weeks so we might have McCullough or Katie been rusty,". he said. "But Flanagan need to fence this tournament requirns a strong this weekend. lot of concentration becausr, Flanagan finished seventh at it lasts so long but I think the Midwest Championship that is going to help us." 

o announce the openi -.· · • 
al seminary in South Bend. Anyone w to the priesthood will be ordained in the t Catholic tradition ( not affiliated with th urchl and those choosing to become am 
· in the church they choose. Or •,. .··•. in the St. John's ·•·• 
lasses wiII b 

SIBllr/1218a 
Friday, March 10, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Martin breaks leg, ends season 
As•ociated Press 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. 

Kenyon Martin knew his season was over before he hit the f1oor. 
Cincinnati's star player, per­haps the best in college bas­
ket ba11. was s1-1tting a screim in the opening minutr.s of Cincinnati's Conforence USA tournament 
o p e n e r Thursday when he bumped into Saint Louis' .Justin Love. 
Martin's ankle turned under­neath him as he f"flll. brnaking his right fibula 
and ripping several ligamr.nts. 
Gone in that instant -his dreams of leading top-ranked Cincinnati to its first national championship since the 1960s and the days of Oscar Robertson. 
"I didn't have anv control over it," Martin sai'd quietly after Cincinnati's 68-58 loss to Saint Louis 
Sitting in a wheelchair with his foot in a cast, Martin said 
ankle, and that he should be able to starting running again in eight weeks. 
That won't be soon enough for the Bearcats, who had been looking for a No. 1 seed in the NCAA tournament. 
"This was their chance," coach Bob Huggins said. "You just have very few chances I think in life to be special. and we've gone through a lot." 
Huggins said his Birnrcats will regroup, and other players will have to work to replace Martin. Senior Ryan Fletcher said it won't be easy. 
"One person isn't going to be able to be Kenyon Martin. But together we can all contribute what he brought to us," Fletcher said. 
Martin, who returned to The Pyramid late in the game to cheer his teammates, thinks 
the  Bearcats  still  have  a  
chance at winn ing a  national  
title.  

The forward. who hasn't missed a game since he was a freshman, plans to be with them every step even if hen has to pay his own way. 
"I've been here since day one. I just can't suit up. I can't get on the court," he said. 
"I can still get a ring. I can still get a banner. I just can't play." 
page 15 

Bearcats lose post­season opener
he told Dr. Angelo Colosimo that his leg was broken as soon as the doctor came onto the flour. 
The 6-fout-9, 240-pound Martin was selected the Conference USA player of the year Wednesday, and is the favorite for national player of 
''I've been here since day one. I just can't suit up. I can't get on the court. I can still get a ring. I can still get a banner. Ijust can't play. " 
Kenyon Martin injured Cincinnati forward 
the year honors. 
He led the conference with 1CJ .5 points per game and l 0 rebounds per game. He also had the top field-goal percentage ( 5 7 percAnt) and is the c a r e e r 
blocked shots leader for both Cincinnati and Conference USA with 292. He set the single­season mark with 107. 
With Martin, Cincinnati set a regular-season record with 28 victories. 
The Bearcats also had the first undefeated record in con­ference play at 16-0. 
Martin will play agafo. Colosimo said doctors will insert a screw into Martin's 

The next Observer will be issued on Tuesday, March 21. See you then. 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Force ROTC Cadets 

Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of qualities that count for leadership. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to make your decision, now. 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. 
Cincinnati star Kenyon Martin broke his right leg early in the first half, and the top-ranked Bearcats lost their postseason opener 68-58 Thursday to Saint Louis. 
The senior watched from the bench as Justin Love scored 25 points in leading ninth-seeded Saint Louis to the upset victory in the Conference USA quarterfi­nals. 
Even without their leading scorer, Cincinnati (28-3) still had a chance to put away a team it routed twice in the regular season. But Saint Louis (17-13) outshot and outreboundcd the Bearcats, who had trouble even finding the basket for much of the second half. 
Cincinnati led 40-36 with 
16:05 left on a jumper by Pete Mickeal, but John Redden put Saint Louis ahead to stay with a 15-foot jumper that made it 48-47 with 12:35 remaining. 
The Bearcats then went cold and didn't hit a shot from the floor for a nearly 10 minute stretch until Mickeal's basket with 1:16 remaining. Cincinnati could have taken the lead but went 6-of-13 at the free throw line in that time. 
Saint Louis didn't miss and hit 10-of-12 free throws in the final 2:44. 
Kenny Satterfield led Cincinnati with 16 points. Mickeal finished with 13 and Ryan Fletcher added 11. 
The Bearcats lost their leading scorer. rebounder and top shot blocker for the rest of the season about three minutes into the game. 
The 6-foot-9, 240-pound Martin was setting a pick when he got tangled up with Love. Martin's ankle turned underneath him as he fell. breaking his leg and damag­ing several ligaments. 
Martin immediately was taken by ambulanre to an orthopedic clinic where doc­tors put a cast on his leg. He will need surgery. which will take place in Cincinnati. 
He returned to The Pyramid midway through the second half with his team­mates trailing and drew a standing ovation. Cincinnati wound up with its earliest exit ever in a tournament thr, Bearcats have dominated over the years. 
Houston 75, Tulane 74 
Waitara Marsh's despera­tion shot from beyond mid­court fell short at the buzzer, and the Houston Cougars held on for a victorv over Tulane. · 
Houston center Jake Ballis intentionally missed a free throw with 3.46 seconds to play, forcing Tulane to grab the rebound and quickly do whatever heroics were required. 
Houston (7-8, 1-1 Conference USA). which over­came a 41-33 halftime deficit, was led by Kenny Younger with 19 points and 10 rebounds. George Williams had 11 points and 11 rebounds for the Cougars. 
Tulane (10-3. 0-2) got 19 points and eight rebounds from Marsh and 17 points from Ledaryl Billingsley. 
Houston got 15 points off the Green Wave's 14 turnovers, while Tulane got only nine points off Houston's 12 turnovers. 
DePaul 71, Memphis 65 
DePaul didn't dominate Memphis on the scoreboard Tuesday night. It was the backboards that mattered. 
Quentin Richardson had 22 points and 14 rebounds to lead the Blue Demons (No. 23 ESPN/USA Today, No. 24 AP) to a 71-65 victory in the Conference USA opener for both. The final total as far as rebounding went was 53-33. 
"Rebounding was our first key to victory, both offensive­ly and defensively," DePaul coach Pat Kennedv said. 
Memphis inte.rim coach Johnny Jones said the rebounding difference was too much to overcome. 
Richardson, who was 7-for­16 from the field. hit two big baskets in the final two min­utes as DePaul (9-3) pulled away at the end. 
The teams exchanged leads midway through the second half and MPmphis (6-7) hPld a one-point lead when Paris London hit a 5-foot fallawav shot with 3:24 left. Bu"t OePaul, behind Hichardson and 5-of-6 free throw shoot­ing by Rashon Burno over the final 1:38. put the game away. 
Burno finished with 13 points for the Blue Demons. while Lance Williams added 
10. Kelly Wise led Memphis with 21 points and eight 
-
rebounds, and London and Courtney Trask had 12 points each. 


r-------------------------~----­
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March I0, 2000 
BYU matr.hup to improve, berausc it will be given all it can handle when it
Tennis 
heads further west to battle No. 6 continued from page 20 Pepperdine a week later. The Wave has been riding high and 
boasts a strong 8-2 record. Irish a chance to gain some valuable Pepperdine also sports an impressive doubles experience. singles squad. with three nationally 
When junior Kimberly Guy went rankfld players. down with a .broken wrist. the entire Junior lpek Senoglu. who should give 
doubles  lineup  was  Michelle Dasso a  run  
thrown out of whack. Head coach Jay  "We've had a week to  for her money in No. 1 singles, anchors the  
Louderback hRs been forced to play pairs that have little experi­ence playing 1ngetlrnr.  practice and already I think we 're more comfortable with the new  contingent. Fatigue could play a significant role, however. as  
That lack of experi­ence was partirularly evident against Iowa and Kentucky. as  pairings. I think we'll be OK as we get more matches in."  Pcppercline will take on Loyola Marymount, SMU, UCLA. and Wisconsin  
Notn~ Damt> unrharac­ prior to pl11ying Notre  
te ristic ally dropped Lwo of threP. doubles matchPs.  Kelly Zalinski senior captain  Dame. The Wavn will no doubt be weary after  
Loudr.rback  seems  playing such a sched­ 

sure that experience will improv0 the ule and will likely Im forced to dig doubles play. derp to hold off an Irish upsnt bid. 
"I think as they get a chance Lo prac­"It !fatigue! could <lefinilnly come tice more. they'll improve." he noted. into play," Zalinksi said. "Tennis is so "Right now it's just a case ol' not hav­draining both physically and mentally, ing played togethPr c1 lot." and we'll be fresh, so it could be an 
"We'vp had a week t.o pra<'tice and advantage." already I think we're more r.omfort­Notre Dame will be out to avenge a able with the new pairings." Za.linski 5-4 loss at the hands of Pepperdine added. "I think we'll be OK as we get last year. more matchPs in." The Wave has won three of' lhe last 
Notre Dame would be wise to use the four mcP.tings. 

-



Experi ng wi aker? 


motio 
• 





oney $$$$$ 

Work for The Observer Ad Design Department 
If you are a Freshman, Sophomore or Junior with Mac skills and want to work for a few hours a week call Brett Huelat at 246-1488 or stop by The Observer office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. You will not find a better job on campus! Great Pay!! Very Flexible!!! 
Friday, March 10, 2000 page 17 

Bball 
continued from_ page 20 
control the game." 
After a technical foul on Doherty. Miami extended its lead to nine points four minutes into the second half. but Notre Dame came storming back with a 9-0 run to tie the game at 53. I3ut the Irish saw it slip away as Murphy's shot slipped out. 
"Wr gave it a run and came up against the best team in the league," Doherty said. "\Ve were right there. The kids could have given up. but they didn't. I'm real proud of these kids." 
The Irish struggled with Miami's tough man­to-man defense in all three meetings. The llurriranes held Big East player of the 
year Murphy to just 15 points, but couldn't keep him off the boards, as he grabbed 16 rebounds. 
"They're the best defensive team in the Big East," Murphy said. "They're physical, they're strong and they play really hard. We had trou­ble with them all three times. Tonight was no different." 
Johnny Hemsley paced Miami with 17 points and Tyler added 14. Jennings dished out 11 assists. 
David Graves had 14 points in a losing effort for Notre Dame and Matt Carroll added 11. 
The Irish. however, who usually live by the 3-pointer, shot just 24 percent (6-for-25) from beyond the arc. 
"'! think it was a hard fought game," Graves said. "The two teams played well. Some things went our wav and others didn't. But thev're a great defensive team. By far the best in the conference." 
The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies 
presents: 
"Desire and Death~\ or Francesca and Guido Cavalciaili: Inferno 5in its Lyri~~~~:~ 
.,·.·..·-· ·, :::::::::'.!·:::.:,:.. -;,•··::;_.-: ··::::::;::::.:.:.:·: . • ·-=:~;;:;:: •... ·:.-· ·::::\:-....-••• ·\:::-:-::./\/· ···-=:::-.r·=•·" 
Teodolinda Baf:olirif 
(Columbia Uriiy.er~;;r 

2000 \Villiam and Katherine Devers ViS:iti'h~ P);pfessor of Dante Studies 
.. ...Qepartrnent of Special Collections 
102 Hesburgh Library 
,.,...."'u-...., this lecture will be followed by a reception . y;.}9 which all are welcome. 

This lecture is part of a week-long compact seminar titl;d-,;~~fk•t&me" taught by Professor Barolini from March 20-24. If you arc interested in cnrolliiiff in this seminar which will meet from 7-9pm, please contact the Dept. of Romance Languages & Literatures, 631-6886. 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Red Storlll blows lead in tournaIDent 
Associated Press 
Bootsy Thornton scored 21 points and third-seeded St. John's, which blew a 15­point second-half lead, scored the game's final six points for a 75-70 victory over Villanova on Thursday night in the quarterfinals ol' the Big East tournament. 
The 19th-ranked Red Storm (22-7) advanced to Friday night's semifinals against second-seeded Miami (21-9). which beat Notre Dame 61-58 in the quarterfi­nals. 
That will be a rematch of last week's regular-season finale, won by Miami 74-70 in overtime, and of last sea­son's semifinal, won 62-59 by St. John's. 
St. John's, which had won nine of 10, appeared in con­trol early, building a 41-26 halftime lead on 56 percent shooting (18-for-32). But the sixth-seeded Wildcats l19­12), who trailed 43-28 less than a minute into the sec­ond half, used a 13-2 run capped by consecutive 3­pointers by Gary Buchanan and Brian Lynch to get within 43-39 with 16:31 left. 
The Wildcats, who shot 
58.6 percent in the second half (17-for-29). tied the game at 59-59 on a free throw by Brooks Sales with 
6:58 left. They took their first lead of the game 66-64 on a jumper by Sales with 4:04 to play. 
Villanova was up 70-69 with 51 seconds left on two free throws by Buchanan, but those were its last points. 
Chudney Gray scored on a drive with 40 seconds left to give the Red Storm the lead for good and, after a missed jumper by Malik Allen of the Wildcats with 24 seconds left, Anthony Glover scored on a breakaway dunk with 16 sec­onds left. After Villanova turned the ball over as it scrambled to get off a tying 


ffi]E ID) IRTOOIE 
-Leasing Fall 2 
Large 2 bedrooms that easily fit 4 
roommates Student leases available Under $500 per month 
.Blocks from Campus 
Best Value In Off Campus Uvint" 
Professionaly Managed by Real. Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 
3-pointer, Erick Barkley was fouled with 4.8 seconds left and made two free throws for the final margin. 
Lavor Postell had 18 points for St. John's and Barkley had 11 points and 11 assists, 
Buchanan led the Wildcats with 19 points and seven assists and Allen had 16 points and 11 rebounds. 
This will be St. John's third straight semifinal appear­ance. The Wildcats have not advanced past the quarterfi­nals since 1997. 
No. 3 Duke 94, 
Clemson 63 
Shane Hattier scored 19 points and No. 3 Duke opened its quest for its 11th ACC title by dominating Clemson inside and out in a victory. 
The Blue Devils (25-4) shot 56 percent, induding making an Atlantic Coast Conference tournament-record 17 of 29 3-point attempts, and had a 38-28 edge on the boards, helping them defeat Clemson for the ninth consecutive time. 
Duke used a 31-4 run in the first half to take control of a game that matched the highest-scoring team in the ACC against the league's last­place team in scoring and shooting. 
Freshman Mike Dunleavy made a successful return after missing four games with mononucleosis as Duke, the tournament's top seed, advanced to Saturday's semi­finals. 
Dunleavy played 20 min­utes, made six of seven 3­pointers and finished with 16 points. 
Nate James added 18 points for Duke, Jason Williams had 14 and Chris Carrawell added 11. 
Ninth-seeded Clemson (10­

20) shot 37 percent and had 17 turnovers. It has lost three games to Duke this season by a combined 79 points. 
¦ 

Tuesday, Mar¢h  .··. ..2 ·,· J  ·.­.  1 ) ~  4:30pm  
··  



111111------------... ... 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March l 0, 2000 
.. 
IRISH INSIGHT 
NCAA hopes depend not on Irish wins, but others' losses 
The ball rolled out of Notre Dame's hands Thursdav, and into those of the !\'"CAA t~urna­ment sBlection committee. 
The lrish fell on the outs of the i Big East Tournament with their 61­58 nail-biter loss to th c M i a m i Hurricanes. The defeat leaves the Irish without a chance to impress the selection committee before NCM tournamP-nt seedings are announced Sunday. 
"Throughout the whole year, we always had the ability to play in the tournament, and it was nice," sophomore forward Troy Murphy said. "And now it's not in our hands. We have to go back to the hotel and root against certain teams and hope that they don't do as well. It's not as comfortable as knowing you can do something your­selves." 
f\lurphy, this year's Big East player of the year, scored 15 points and powered his way to 16 rebounds in Notre Dame's loss Thursday. But he missed the go-ahead 3-pointer in the closing seconds. 
"l hit that shot, and that could be another win, and that could separate us from another team in the tournament," \1urphy said. "It's tough to think that that shot could either put you in the NCAA or the NJT." 
!\ow 18-14 on the season. the Irish are teetering in a tenuous position. No team has ever received an at-large bid to the NCM tournament with 14 loss­es. 
However, Notre Dame also defeated five ranked opponents, as many as any team in the nation besides ~izona. The blue and gold add a slew of close losses to their resume: a two­point loss to No. 9 Syracuse, overtime defeats at the hands of Indiana and Vanderbilt, and a pair of three-point losses to co­Big East regular season champi­on Miami. 
If Notre Dame winds up on the outside looking in, it won't be the close losses to tourney­bound teams that come back to haunt it. Instead. the Irish will be wishing they hadn't blown games against lesser opponents such as Miami (Ohio), Rutgers, Pittsburgh and Providence. Closing the regular season 5-6 against Top-25 teams is under­
.... 
standable. Dropping a late-sea­
son home game to Providence is 
unacceptable. 
"No disrespect to Providence, but that was a game we· d like to have back," Notre Dame head coach Mutt Doherty said. "At Miami, a three-point gamCT. 

Thcv'ro the 2;~rd-ranked team in the country. Then we play Syracuse, a two­point gamfl. They're the No. 9 team in the country. Then we beat Georgetown and they bt>at Syracuse. So we're a pretty good team," 
Notre Dame's tourna­ment chances probably hinge on the fate of other bubble teams in their con­ference tournamC'nts this week. The Big East is likHly to receive six slots in the NCAA tournament, but could conceivably snag seven if the pieces fall the right way. 
Syracuse, Miami, St. John's, Connecticut and Seton Hall have virtually assured themselves invita­tions to \1arch \1adness by reaching the 20-win plateau. 
Villanova and Notre Dame, however, remain very much on the bubblfl. The Wildcats, 1.ike the Irish lost in the quarterfinals last night. The Wildcats fell by five points to third-seeded St. John's. With a 19-11 nicord, Villanova has more wins than Notre Dame, but unlikr. l\'otre Dame, failed to finish ofT a single ranked ti>am this season. 
Notre Dame also needs to hope !'or poor perfor­mances by teams on the outer edge of NCAI\. tour­nament chances. Any unexpected upsets in con­ference tourneys across the nation could send a Cinderella team to March Madness and send the Irish to the NIT. An upset like St. Louis's 68-58 win over No. 1 Cincinnati Thursday could crunch the Irish out of contention if the Billikens (17-13) make a run at the Conference USA tournament championship. 
If selected for the NCAA tour­ney, Notre Dame will fulfill a dream that's been 10 years in the making. The Irish ·haven't gone to the Big Dance since John MacLeod's first year as head coach in 1989-90, when they were knocked out in the first round. MacLeod left South 
HOWPLACE 16 
Just West of Main St on Chi ewa • 299-6063 Students and Seniors $4.50 Anytjme. 
$4.50 All Shows Before 6 pm _• Advance llcket Sales Available :J 5, 
All Times ror Mar. 10-12 Only Saturday & Sunday Matinees in Brackets 
;Mission To Mars (PG) Digital The Whole Nine Yard~ (R) Digital :• [1:151 4:15 7:00 9:45 12:20ks:40 8:, s 10:40 ' [2:15) 5:00 7:50 10:30 Boiler oom (R) Digital:l'hc Nmth Gate (R) Digital [1:45] 4:45* 7:50 10:25 
I1301 4:20 7:20 10:20 •No Show March 14th onJ 15th ; Erin Brockovich (R) S11e,1k Prr:vit!H Pitch Black (Rl Digital :, 7:'iOP.M.onSat.March I Ith only [2: 15] 5:20 8:00" 10:35 :TovStorv 2 (R) OPEN CAPTION *No Show March IIth :, 4:'lO P.M. on '\.1arch 14 and 15 only American Beauty (R) Digital ;Th7e Next _Best !hing _(PG· 13) Digital [1:201 4:30 7:15 10:05 , [ -..451 5. 10 7.30 m IO Scream3 (Rl Digital
Mv 11ogSkip (PG) Digital [2:5565:30 8:10 10:45 . lf:5014:106:45 9:10 Snow av (PC.) Digital: Orowning Mona (PG-13) Digital t:40j S:05 7:25 : I DOI -ViO 7:10 9JO he T1!lfjr MO\ie (G) Digital ;what Planet Are You From(R) Digital p:001 :00 6:30 , [2:10] 4:40 7:20 9:50 I an~ngUp <R) Digit.ii: Reindeer Games (R) Digital 9:~ . 12:50) 5: 15 7:45 tO: IS Boa;s Don't Cry (R) Digital· Lidcr ftouse Rules (PG-13) Digital I :(JO : II:OOJ 3:45 6:40 9:25 
--··--· ONLY $100 All Shows Before 6 pm
SCOTTSDALE 6 • Everyone• Everyday Scottsdale Mall • 299-6063 $1.50 All Evening Shows :1 b. 
Stuart Little (PG) Deuce Bigalo: !Viale Gii;tolo (PG-13! 
II:20] 4:00 6:30 8:45 11:50) 4:'.'.0 7: IO 1):30 
Sleepy Hollow (R) Anna and the King (P(;-13) 
[ I :40! 4:30 7:00 9:'iO [ I :301 4:50 8:00 An~ Given Sunday (RI End of Days (P(;-13) II :OOJ 4:40 8: 15 I I: IOI 4: 10 6:50 9:40 
Bend after last season, opening whether it's in the NIT, we're the door to Doherty's first sea­going to make a run for it, or son at the helm. Notre Dame's whether it's in the NCM, we're No. 1 goal throughout the sea­going to make a run." son has been to qualify for the With no more basketball left to NCM tournament. play before Selection Sunday, 
"Whatever our fate is on 

Killer App helped me find mv 
moio 

Student programmers and software developers...Do vou have what It takes to develop the KILLER APP? 
Develop agame or utmtv and submit It to Aureate Media bV April 1, 2000. If II sthe best VDU COUid win $2000. If not, VDU COUid S1111 make alot of monev. Anv questions? E-mall: killerapp@aureate.com. 
NOrURClf.ASE SECESSARY. foi)lllcl1111bl<1 you mu,11>c1U.S. ~,u:om II! ywr,.01 uldc:,. E'uiplo,-. uu:ld1N,:;ll)!'lluf /1.urule M,;d11 Corp.1r1.1mn •~d 111 allil1a1,;J tuini:-111,:s, .n,I 1he1r 1m11icd111le 1am1h.:s or mo:mhcrs ot 1he u.mo: bou..:holJs, &re IIOl cl1(P• Ne T<> ent<:r. ><'lid• ct'l'\ll o(lht i<)ll"B"-' !)mp.ram. aloni w,!h yuur ,,_n,.,, add=s.. age, phone number •I\J t•tll.oll adiJ~ 10' Autcate Med•• Cmporatnm, i\ltenhn11: K,n,, AJ'Ph;111,i11 C1)lllcsl Adm,.mrtrator, 19168 Old Mnldkfiel<I W•'/• Mwnta111 \11cw, CA 94!J43. ll111er u many 1,0Jlw11.-i r,rug1Am1 ,u yuu Ilk(:, bui e.uh enlry mu.st Ile :;.:Ill :i<.-pa1attly. Enmts musi b,: re,c.c,~cd by ll·S9:,9 p.m. E.'L, ,\pnl l. 2000. On~ (I) ifali1\ l'll'IU tif$2,UOO will N' 1w11r&d. Nn sum111u11,1n nftht gnin.1 pnJie will~ alfowal. W1nnur. •nd ,~h.,, lltllllnet• ""'lei'lod for 11,clu,,on in 1h¢ "'""~'° ndWork, will I-.= 1ktenn1ned 1n the ,ole d,si:,._.t,on n(1h,­JUlij!t<1 bu~ upon th,; d-:1..ul, U\13i app.:al. 1001i.:t.11fi1lny, 1ntcracu,ny and ,uua.l np,.-c1~ of the emncs. Wigner will he n041f1cd hy nuo! orl',i,,-1\. Wnmtr, •ml ,~hl!rt'lll!ll'S 51!1,icwl fl'I' 1n~hu1on an lhe Aureale neotwnrk, ..._.,II~ 1nnot1ne«I hy '-ta)' 1.1000. l)d,f~ l'l(wu1n111g will v11y wnh p,an1c1pa111,n Tun nn, 11,,c fnlc r,,-~poM1h1l,1y ofl~" v.,nncr Th"' v,,,nnt'I', u11l the owneta nr enln~ .eh.-<eral for mclusoun m 1hc Auri:11c 11<:1w1,n., v.,11 1-e ""'!ll1f'ltl 1<1 fl(N'.:U!e l~c follown,1r I 1&b1!1ty and l'uhhul)' Rekue, Affid•11t1 nr l:llgiblhl)I 111d !ilttllwuc llcv"'lop!r 11.<'!Hllntmn A~llW'lll Coo\t!SI ~ooducled l'f Aul'Qt'°' ~"'111 Coqnrahnn. WlhB Old M,dd.lefodd W,iy, Muu11ra1n \licw. C,4. 9+'14~. Fora co"'f'I..-;: ...-ofOfflc,al Rull!S or.a htl of lh" winM'r •nd I~ c1utn""' ...!ed"'I fo, 1ndu11nn 1n lbct ,..11rcalc nd"-•Ofl. pi,;~ ,411,i a ""lf•:,oo\dr~..,.,...,\ ..._,,i:i-1 "11'""'1"' lo Au,...,.., M...Jia {.'orflllrlllun, ~a K1Ut1 Ar,plu:,unn ('nn1cs1 l\tlmtnislntor. r\urcale Mcd11 Carponmon assumc;s nn ~"Nl>d11y far IOI!:, mutL• l,1od. We or m1.d.1Tlleled tlllnC!I. ar fot Ill)" corttpulct. l~itphoa.e. n.et"""'ri:, tl«tffl.oJc or 1ntt111<!1 illn:lwaN ,,r wftw.~ malfilllt:· 
h<>f'PI Of (.llluro. V<)ID Wllr:RE PRCJIIIBlTICD 
the Irish's fate hangs in the bal­ance. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Sunday," sophomore David Graves said, ''I'm willing to take it. And 
FREE REFILL 
On Popcorn & Soft Drinks! 
• LL IG 
Aureate Media www.aureate.com 
lOOKING FDR A1011? we need, proura•11111. PIOdUCI ••n1u1n. .dlllbBH IOIIIOHIS, and••• 1nu1n1111. t-11111, nr@1MrHl1.co¦ 


------------------------------, 
Friday, March l 0, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 39 Thunder 67 Change 
FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 2000 

, _Major preceder 68 Canal with a 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Orga­
s Dayan of Israel 43 Troubadours' mule, in song 
DAY: Prince Edward, Jasmine Guy, nize your day carefully. Someone 
10 Velvet drape instruments 69 Kind of stand 
Shannon Tweed, Bob Greene, Sharon you care about may be overreacting 14 Jene _quoi 44 Female rabbit 70 Curls up with a 
Stone, Chuck Norris, Shannon Miller to situations concerning money. 
Happy Birthday: You won't be Offer to pay their way if it will help. able to hide the way you feel. You 000
1s Consumed 45 Western brush book 
71 Shuffleboard

1& Vocal solo 46 WNW's reverse 
will want to socialize with those you LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 1hings
locale, maybe

17 Roe 47 Circulars, 
trust and know well. Your confi­are looking up. You can get out with 18 Not level basically dence will grow this year because friends and join cultural or political 19 News bit 50 Blowhard's talk DOWN you will keep your surroundings groups that can provide you with 1 Computer safe and secure. Deal quickly with the mental stimulation you require.
20 Mediocre 52 Koppel of 
operator any negatives that remain in your life 000
"Nightline"

23 Ripken of the and get on to bigger and better SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your
2 Pasta sauce

Orioles 53 Sudden jolt things. Your numbers: 18, 23, 26, 33, energy is high. Concentrate on your
brand 

24 Dehydrated 55 Jima 38, 42 career, and advancement will come 
3 Omen 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): your way The extra hours you put in
25 Actress Dawber 56 It may be called 
4 Person who's Spend some quality time with your and the dedication you show will not 
28 Congressional for in a recipe 
not yet a full family. You don't have to spend a go unnoticed. 000 
meeting place 81 Katharina, to 
partner fortune, and be sure not to promise SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 32 Steeped Petruchio them that you'll go to a specific event 21): Your high energy will have to be
s Common

beverage 64 Kentucky unless you have tickets in advance. put to good use. Competitive sports 
potluck dish 33 Maria college, or its 
000 events, socializing with friends, a 
e Solemn promise 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): day in the great outdoors -whatev­
34 Kind of rug town 
1 Pigpens Financial ventures will come to a er you decide on, you must include 
35 Common auto es Bishop of Rome 
a Biker's dead end. Do not proceed with legal family. They've missed you more option aa Object of protection matters. Children may pose a prob­than you realize. 00000 37 More refined devotion lem. Try to help them without being CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
g Whole 

too negative. 000 Don't let relatives get on your10 Jack and Jill's GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You nerves. You won't be able to changeANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE vessel will be upset if you're left with the their way of thinking, so don't tire 11 Carney of 'The brunt of the domestic chores. Make yourself out trying. Be sure not to 
Puzzle by Nancy Kavanaugh
QUIZMAS Honeymooners" sure that you delegate jobs to all fam­take on too much. 00 UNSINKA 31 Abner" 54 1950's war site 60 Stink to high ily members before they have a AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
12 Prevaricate 

heaven chance to leave the premises. 0000 Take time to do things for yourself.
13 On the_ 36 Clear (of) 56 Place to pick up 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your You have been looking after every­
(fleeing) 38 Like a drain a sandwich 
61 Cleverness boss may have dumped some extra one else. It's time to curl up with 21 Dieter's 57 Ward (off) work in your lap. Take it home rather a book, take a hike or do some writ­
after a drain concern cleaner 62 Boise's state: than doing it at the office. Your fami­ing. Most of all, you must express
58 Minute opening 22 Vaulted 
40 City of southern Abbr. ly will help you if you let them. 00 yourself. 0000 Honshu 59 Like some LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Social PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
25 Persona non 

proportions 63 Sly one events should include the whole Don't get into a senseless argument •
grata 41 Old salt 

family. Accept an invitation to do with friends or relatives. It will only 26 Pay back 42 Chopper landing something a little different. Commu­ruin the whole day for you and your 27 Big Wall Street spots Answers to any three clues in this puzzle nications will be clear, allowing you family. Keep your personal thoughts news 48 Expel from law are available by touch-tone phone: to eliminate misunderstandings. and opinions to yourself. 000 28 Nautical rope practice 1-900-420-5656 (95C per minute). 00000 29 Stir up 49 Connive Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Birthday Baby: You're quick to do things and not always aware of the con­30 Struck 51 It can be best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 sequences. You are an adventurer who just wants to experience a little bit of repeatedly inspired years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. everything -a fun-loving, free-spirited soul searching for all life's little 
pleasures. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) (0 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
..

SUB vvishes you a great Spring Break! 
Be ready for NAZZ 2000 (3/24) 
J 

and Jimmy Fallon (3/25) when you return!!! 
e www.nd.edu/-sub 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
HER.E'S. /1. LE.Ti'£.~~'{oof<. ff\iE.NT'l it1E.n~t: (Ol"\lt-16 Uf To Vl<,IT '(OU 
WI-IEW! 
Fox TROT 

WHO CAN El<PLAIN 

FINALLY, WHo CAN 
THIS IIIEXT POEM? 

EllP\.AIN THIS LAST 
...MICHAEL? 

POEM? ... 6tNA? 
UH••• 

ER••.
_.) J 

'­
'­
6000. !'\/\:: (;,OT 5<ll'\E "f1Mf.. To pi:~!'A~E'. (AW '(OIJ l~~INE '..!\\Ai MY ?ARENTS WIJLt) De To ME IF ii-IE'( Of'EWE-0 M>y fil-10()£ lltNCl 
fovND ""' 6.mtRf. ll-6E oF-SE£­

TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
MISS CHRISTO·  I'D C:il'VE  
PHER ISN'T  YOIJ A  
NEARLY So  
SCARY SINCE  
WE FIGURED  
HER OUT.  
\  

JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

Have a safe break. 
beam.1 @nd.edu 



Dirty Dozen 
Notre Dame will attempt to qualify 1 2 fencers for the 2000 NCAA Fencing
PORTS 
Championships. 
page 14 

O
THE 
page 20 BSERVER Friday, March 10, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
ND comes up short in Big East tourney to Miami 

By BRIAN KESSLER Spores Edi tor 
NEW YORK 

The third time wasn't a charm for the Irish Thursday night, as Nolre Dame dropped a 61 -58 contest to Miami at Madison Square Garden in the quarterfi­nals of the Big East tournament. 
The Hurricanes have now beaten the Irish three times this season and will move on to play St. John's in the semifinals tonight. 
With 18.8 seconds loft in the game. Notre Dame found itself in a familiar situation, and came awav with a similar result. Two weeks ago at l\1iami, the Irish needed a 3­pointcr in the closing seconds to send the game to ovPrtime. Troy Murphy's shot rimmed out. Thursday night, Notre Dame 
r 
! needed a two-point basket for the win. i Once again, Murphy's shot rimmed out. "When Troy goes up, I think it's in," first­year head coach \1att Doherty said. "You've got your best player taking an r open shot. Granted it's a 3-point shot, but •t 
he is one of our best 3-point shooters. 
I [When it misses] you think foul. Well that's what I'm thinking at th·e same time your gut gets ripped out." 
But the Irish weren't able to get the foul. Following the miss, Miami point guard Vernon Jennings secured the rebound and fired a quick outlet pass to Elton Tyler who slammed it home with 0.8 seconds left. 
"I was trying to finish the play," Tyler said. "We have a great defense, so after that, I knew we were going to get a stop on something like that." 
Harold Swanagan's ensuing inbounds pass was batted down by Tyler and the Irish were sent packing. 
Miami jumped out to a 23-16 lead with 
9:21 left in the first half, but Notre Dame battled back and a thunderous slam dunk by Swanagan tied the game at 28. The Hurricanes clung to a slim three-point margin at the break. 
"In the second half we knew we had to come out and play harder because we felt they outplayed us in the first half even though the score didn't indicate that," Jennings said. "In the second half, we came out, stepped up our pressure and tried to 
see BBALL/page 17 

.. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish expect to extend four-game win streak over break 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sporrs Writer 
Spring break for most of us is a time for rest and relaxation, but for the members of the women's tennis team, it's time to extend a winning streak. 
After soundly whipping four ranked opponents last week, the Irish stand at
• 
11-4 on the current campaign. Their record and four-match win streak will be put on the line with two 
SPORTS 
ATA 
GLANCE 

difficult matches over the spring holi­day. 
The Irish will head west to take on the Cougars of BYU on Saturday, before doing battle with the sixth 

ranked Waves of Zalinski Pepperdine a week later. 
Though BYU is unranked, they might 
Fencing at Appleton, Wisc. NCAA Regional Qualifiers Saturday, All Day 
still provide Notre Dame with a stern test. 
The Cougars boast a solid singles lineup, led by senior Eline Chiew who is ranked 53rd nationally. BYU is 6-4 on the season after losing to 
Northwestern. a team Notre Dame recently upset. last week. 
"We try to go into every match the same way," senior captain Kelly Zalinski said. "We'll be fired up and hopefully we can continue to play well." 

The Irish have split six all-time meet­ings with the Cougars, but trounced them last year 9-0. 
Michelle Dasso will be counted upon heavily to fend off a BYU upset bid. Tho junior All-American has taken her play to a new level, as she has been virtually unbeatable in singles compe­tition. 
A BYU team, weaker than a typical Notre Damr, opponent, should give thn 
see TENNIS/page 16 
,M Track 1j,1f at NCAA Championships Today-Saturday, 3 p.m. 
CCHA Quarcerfinals vs. Ferris State Today-Sunday, TBA 
Diving at NCAA Zone Diving T oday-Sarurday, 'rBA 
at BYU Saturday, 3 p.m. 





