
Butterflies take flight 
"Emily's" Story 

Campus band, Butterfly Effect, is breaking up Students respond to a rape victim's Tuesday
and will have their last concert April IS. 
account ofher tragedy. 
Scene . page 10-11 
Viewpoint . page 9 
APRIL 11, 2000 
THE 



VOL XXXIII NO. 119 

Survey:LaFortune lacks adequate social space 
IlyJASON McFARLEY 

New~ 'X/rircr 

Altlrnugh rnst1lts !'rom ;i cnmpus-wirle surrny 
rnnductnd last fall indicate that most Notre Dame 
undergraduates are displeased with the 
Cniversity's social space facilities, any new build­
ing initialiws 01· rencn ations to the current stu­
dent renter will likely be years down the road. 
0v11r 90 percent of sampled students expressed 
n1'gative opinions of the campus social space situ­
ation. RPspondrnts gaYe the LaFortune Student 
CnntPr particularly bad ratings. 
The sun·Py, administered by the Student Senate 
subcommittPP on CPntralized Soria! Space, polled 
a random sample or 20 percent or current under­
graduates as well as alumni who have graduated 
within the last five Vl~ars. 

In addition, the survey was made available via 
the Internet for the entire student bodv. 
"The purpose of Ion-line availabiiity] vvas to 
keep things fair. There was a random sample of 
students and alumni, but other students also got 
the opportunity to respond freely," said Joe 
see SURVEY/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Hesburgh to receive Hold Cross degree 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
SJint 'Aary·s News Lditor 
Father Theodore Hesburgh has received more honorary degrees than anvone in the world, with a total or"141. To receive his next honorary degree, how­ever, he won't need to travel far from home. 
He sb u.r g h, Notre Dame president emeritus. will receive the first honorarv degree award·­ecl by Holy Cross College, as well as address the Class of 2000 at Holv Cross College's 33rd-annuaf com­mencement ceremonv. 
"The college has ·been in the process of researching the expe­riences and traditions of other two-year colleges regarding the granting of honorary degrees," said Beverly Bradley, director of the Office of Community Relations at Holy Cross College. "The Board of Trustees decided it was appro-priate for us at this time." 


Ilesburgh was chosen by the administration and IJoard of Trusters to receive this du al honor because of his past service to Holy Cruss. Hesburgh was pre­sPnt at the founding of Iloly Cross and was a friend of Brother John Driscoll, the first Holy Cross pres­ident. Tlesburgh also aided Holy Cross as it sought to obtain the recognition and credit standing necessary for its survival. 
"I am grateful for the support and encouragement I have felt personally from Father Hesburgh over the years -not only as a president, but as a fellow C.S.C. member," said Brother Richard Gilman, president of Holy Cross. 
Hesburgh, who was president of '.'lotre Dame for 35 years, will be granted a Doctor of Humane Letter. 
Hesburgh has served under four popes and been awarded 15 presidential appointments. Hesburgh is also a recipient of the Congressional Medal of Honor for his lifetime commitment to public service. 
Hesburgh is a founding member of the first private foundation allowed to organize in Russia, the Foundation for the Survival and Development of Humanity. His longstanding interests in peace and d1welopment issues are reflected in his principal involve­ment with two Notre Dame insti­tutes, the .loan 13. Kroc Institutle for International Peace Studies and the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. Ile is a board member of the U.S. Institute for Peace. 
Hesburgh has also just complet­ed six years of service on the Harvard University Board of Overseers, the last two as presi­dent of the organization. 
As for the future of the hon­orary degree at Holy Cross College, Hesburgh's award may not become commonplace, but on it is not entirely out of the ques­tion for other honorary degrees being granted in the future. 
"Although it may not be an annual tradition, Holy Cross College may choose to offer this honor to others of this caliber in the future, as the occasion aris­es," Bradley said. 
Commencement exercises at Holy Cross College take place on May 13, in Saint Joseph Chapel, on campus. 

ACE offers opportunity to give back, earn master's 

By NICOLE HADDAD 
News Writer 
As many seniors anxiously pre­pare to leave for new careers after graduation, Ann Pangilinan and Cameron Gunville will be leaving the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame communities only to return nine days later. They are among 80 students who have been admitted into the ACE (Alliance for Catholic Education) program. 
Based on three pillars -pro­fossiona I teaching, rommunity liv­ing and spirituality -ACE is a two-year service program where Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates serve as teachers in southern Catholic schools without adequate resources. 
Throughout the two-year com­mitment, ACE teachers pursue a master of education at Notre name through eight-week sum­mer sessions at the University. 
"ACE participants embody Christ's person and learhings, both to the students they serve and the peers with whom they live in intentional Christian com­munities," said Mary Jo Adams, associate director of ACE. 
Adams explained that the heme­fits are long-tasting and abundant for both parties. 
"First and foremost, ACE teach­ers are able to give their own tal­ents and blessings to as many of our applicants desire. For two years of servic<', an ACE teacher participates fully in the role of an educator, counselor, friend, men­tor, doctor, coach and community member," she said. 
ACE teachers receive a fully­funded master's degree and are eligible to become certified teach­ers in Indiana. Additionally, ACE participants receive an annual education award from the Corporation for National Service to repay federal loans or to finance future graduate study. 
Next year, Pangilinan will teach high school seniors chemistry and religion in Montgomery, Ala. 
"At the beginning of my senior year, I koew I really wanted to teach," said Pangilinan, "but I had not completed the education pro­gram. The ACE program, howev­er, would provide me with teach­ing experience and I would get to live in a different environment with different people." 
"I was initially planning on going to medical school. I was working towards the MCAT at the end of my junior year and was offered an intr.rnship in the sum­mer to do research," said Pangilinan, "but something didn't foe! right." 
Pangilinan explained how her experience as a teaching a.._<;sistant helped her to realize her passion for working with students. 
"As a chemistry TA, I was devising and teaching labs. I r.njoyerf seeing thn students' faces and I·could relate chemistry to 
see ACE/page 4 

page 2 The Oburver . INSIDE Tuesday, April 11, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The right to choose facts 

We live in an ever-inr.reasing "cost-benefit" age. to use business jargon, one that places a premium our "needs." Individuals weigh the morality ofan act based on its effect on our cherished lives. This Sf'lfish line of thinking has given rise to many of the premises of the pro-choicA side of the abortion debate. 
Onre we examine abortion statistics, we realize that tl1e ra~/inccst argument is not proportionally valid to sup­port the entire industry, and pro-choicers are left \\ith the realization that they must support what amount to thou­sands ofconvenience abor­tions. Jn other words, ifit is not convenient for me to raise a child, J have a right to an abortion. Or, to romanticize this logic, I am sparing this unborn child a life with me, aparently un~illing to change my lifesl.yle. 
The brushstrokes can paint the issue in so many broad colors, but they create the same picture. Oops! 1don't feel like having a child; I can't support it; I have a ri){ht and an obligation to l.errninate il at once. This is amoral selfishness at its best; or rather. at it's worst. There is a good reasou ror the continuation of thi> abortion debate. other than the failure to correlate sexual activity with pregnancy. And you thought Al Gore was naive. When logic and personal responsibility evade the pro-choice movement, it happily crawls to the nurturing shel­ter ofits closest ally, anecdotal evidence. 
What is this evidence that justifies terminating a pregnancy? It often consists of horror stories of broken homes and neglected children. At best, this rhetoric gives a license to kill to the poor and dys­functional. I'm glad my parents didn't "spare me from a life of hardship," otherwise I might have aspired to nothing more than a footnote from a Saturday night of Bee Gees and wine spritzers. "Geez, we had a close call back in '78, but luckily we had access to plenty of Planned Parenthood pamphlets." 
This logic leads to plenty of presumptions, none of which include the notion that a life is being ter­minated. First, we must assume that all children born into economic hardship or other rough situa­tions have no ability to better themselves in life. Second, we have to lend support to the argument that it's "immoral" to bring children into these unwanted situations, a veritable "Get out ofpar­enthood free" card for the poor and horny. 
½'hat business does a person have in going through the motions if they cannot possibly fathom a pregnancy? This isn't out of touch -this is reali­ty. Otherwise, what prohibits me from murdering my toddler to "spare them a harsh life"? 
Pro-choicers are correct when they assert that women have a choice in whether or not to have a child; they just don't understand when the decision should be made. I suggest the bedroom, for starters. So the argument evolves into a deter­mined struggle for a "woman's right," and it would certainly make the utilitarian philosopher John Stuart Mill proud. My right to terminate the preg­nancy is paramount; the fetus has no rights; they are at best secondary to my rights. This idea is prevalent in our culture. And so a very large, vocal portion of American society continues to support a second-rate medical practice using third-rate logic. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and nnt necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Laura Rompf  Amanda Greco  
Erin Piromek  Chris Scotr  
Brigid Sweeney  Graphics  
Sports  Kris Forcier  
Kacie McVoy  Production  
Viewpoint  Brian Kessler  
P~trick McAllister  Lab Tech  
Betsy Storey  

Th, Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) ;, published Mond,y through Friday excepr dnring eictm and vacation prriod~ The Oh~erve-r is ;:i member of rhe ,\:,.,oci.m.:d Pre_.s,.;; All n:production right~ art rc:i,erved. 
''They make this out to "'Fortunately this be the Notre Dame year there were no 
family, that you can major controversies trust everybody, that where I would have had to make an
everybody cares about you. Everybody here is immediate. not perfect. There's a important, definitive lot ofbad things going decision." 
Micah Murphy
on here." 
former Notre Dame
"Emily" student body president
campus rape victim 
"Obviously our intent is not censorship . ... But the primary mission ofcourse, is our academic 
mission. 

Larry Rapagnani, assistant provost of information technologies on the Napster ban 
"Very few colleges have this position. let alone {one! that votes. We are lucky as a college. " 
Molly Kahn on her apointment as the new student member of the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees 
Compiled from lf.Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Purdue hunger strike ends in compromise 
After 11 days of a hunger strike by five campus activists, Purdue l.iniversity agreed to join the Worker's Rights Consortium by the end of September if provisioned cri­teria are met. 
ThB WRC is a fledgling agency that monitors factories abroad that pro­duce collegiate merchandise. The organization works to ensure that official apµarel is not made in sv,eat­shop conditions. 
Purdue Students Against Sweatshops, one of many such activist groups on colleg<' campuses nationwide, reached a settlement with the administration about midnight Thursday. The compromise was ham­mered out after a marathon negotia­tion session with Joe Bennett. vice president of Purdue University rela­tions. 
The hunger strike, initiated by six 
"I think we've found common ground. We are left with enough discretion to answer our concerns and they got the formal commitment that we wanted." 
Joe Bennett vice president Purdue University relations 
students,' ended at 1:30 p.m. Friday with a formal breaking of bread. The strikBrs consorted with Purdue University officials over bagels and bananas. "I think we've found com­mon ground," Bennett said. "We are left with enough discretion to answer our concerns and they got the formal 
commitment that we wanted. 
Obviously, no one wants Purdue 
apparel to be made in inhumane 
conditions, hut it's going to he a difli­
cult process." 
Bennett said, while the administra­
tion is committnd to Bnding thf1 com­
plicity of the university in sweatshop 
labor, it holds reservations about the 
WRC. 
"We had a lot of issues to resolve 
bBcause of Purdue's concerns about 
tlie WRC and the students concerns 
about the University's intentions," he 
said. "In Urn rasc of the WRC, Purdue's concerns are the lack of information about the organization's operating methods, its source of sup­port and its future goals." 
The eight provisions put down by Purdue University include guaranteed exemption from legal liability and a review of its accounting. 
East Carolina University student murdered near campus 
GREENVILLE, N.C. 
Early Sunday morning, East Carolina University junior Reggie Neil Harris was gunned down by two males in the front yard of 115 North Jarvis Street. Reasons for the murder are currently unknown. According to Melissa Bartlett of Police Public Affairs at the Greenville Police Department (GPD). witnesses said Harris was vis­iting friends and left around 1 a.m. where he was then approached by two black males who shot and killed him. According to Lieutenant Joe Bartlett of the GPD the mur­der was reported around 1 :15 a.m. and the case is now under full investigation. Bartlett said presently the CPD is conducting interviews with witnesses and possible suspects. "Currently no one in is custody," Bartlett said. Laura Sweet, the assistant dBan of Student Life, met with the GPO to discuss the case and the next necessary procedures. "We are alerting the campus of the happen­ings," SweBt said. "I am contacting student witnesses and offering them support and access to counseling if wanted." According to Bartlett, it is estimated four rounds were shot from the murder weapon. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

4,Q,~A,8Qi1~u 
Showers T-storms Rain F/LJrrios Snow Ice Sumv Pt. Cloudy Cloudy v,s Associated Press Graph,csNer 
James Madison student arrested for abandoning infant 
HARRISONBURG, Va. 

A James Madison University nusing student was arrested Friday in Harrisonburg after she allegedly left her now deceased newborn in a portable toilet at a rural Delaware construction site. Freshman Abigail Caliboso, 19, of Woodbridge, is being charged as a fugitive by the Harrisonburg Police Department, and with manslaugh­ter and second-degree conspiracy by Delaware State Police. Also charged was Chantilly resident Jose Ocampo, 18, Caliboso's boyfriend and alleged father of the baby, Delaware State Police said. According to Delaware Police spokesman Cpl. Walt(w Newton. Caliboso and Ocampo rented a motel room in Fairfax County on \'larch 26, where Caliboso allegedly gave birth to a baby. Later that day, the couple reportBdly drove north on Interstate 95 to Delaware. They exited the interstate and found the remote construction site in Bear, where they allegedly left the infant and drove back to Virginia. According to Delaware police, staff members from Rockingham Memorial Hospital treated Caliboso for post-delivery complications. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

Via A$soc,a,.a ProU  
Atlanla  74  40  Las Vegas  86  55  Portland  74  47  
Ballimore  56  43  Memphis  65  56  Sacramento  79  48  
Boston  46  32  Milwaukee  38  29  St. Louis  55  47  
Chicago  45  34  New York  44  36  Tampa  83  58  
Houston  79  65  Philadelphia  54  40  Wash DC  61  47  

Tuesday, April 11, 2000 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Professor testifies for plaintiff 
. Gundlach gives expert knowledge on slotting fees 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
New, Wnm 
Last v1,·enk was rough for several large cum panies involvnd in antitrust trials. ,\!though not as well publi­c·iznd as 
t h n Microsofl drrision. a I a r g n tobacco company was also f o u n d guilty of antitrust 


violations. 
l'rofnssor of marknlin~ at Notre Dame. Grngory Gundlach. l<!Slit'ird in a trial that n'sulU!d in $1.05-bil!ion vc-rdict 111st w,wk against U.S. Tobacco Co. (UST!, thP nation's largest snuff tobar:co l'ompany. (iundlach's explHt tPstimony, giv,~n on lwhalf' of 
tlw µlaintif'f C()nwood Co., supported the firm ·s claim that l!ST had attrmptc~d to dominate Lhn snuff tobacco marketplace through the use of slotting foes and other monopolistic practices. 
Visit 

Slotting fops -the contro­versial practice or retailers and wholesalers requiring a payment from manuf'acturnrs before agreeing to allocate shelf rlf warehouse space to their products -have been Guntllach's specialty since he testified beforp the U.S. Senate about the effects the r01-~s could have on small busi­nessPs last St>ptember. 
"In this particular instance, the slotting practice, amongst a lot or other practices the UST company had engaged in, were !found to be] anti-com­petitive," said Gundlach. "It doesn't necessarily mean that slotting fees are anti-competi­tive in every instance, but in this particular case. given the facts, that.'s what the jury found." 
The jury dnlibcratcd 
n

"ft doesn't necessarily 
for just four Department hours last mecm I.hat slotting fees 0 f 
Tuesday are anti-competitive Agriculture, 
befure fim.ling the General
in every instance." 
in f'avor of Accounting Conwood Co. Office an<l Damages Gregory Gundlach t h e 
werl' se1 at American
marketing professor
$350 million, Antitrust however that lnstitutP. amount with investi­lriplPd under federal antitrust gatiorn, and workshops to bet­laws. ter understand the effects 
"UST had up to 50,000 rela­slotting fees may have on a tionships with retail locations variety of business sectors. 
nationally and many of these had anti-competitive elements [including] slotling 
allowances," said Gundlach. 
A Greenwich, Conn. based firm, UST holds approximately 80 percent of the snuff tobac­co market with brands like Copenhag<rn and Skoal. Conwood, Co. of Memphis, Tenn. controls only 13 percent with its Kodiak and Cougar brands. UST said it would appeal the w1rdict, maintain­ing their conduct did not vio­late antitrust laws. 
Besides his testimonies at this trial and on Capitol Hill, Gundlach is the co-author of the most <'omprrhensive acad­emic analysis of slotting foes and continues to research their nffects. lie also assists the l:cderal Trade 
Commission, 
t h 



COB students defy trends, stay in school 
. Web companies lure students away from college 
By STACEY KAPLAN News Writer 
Troy Murphy may not be the only Domer turning down mil­lions in order to stay a few more years in the land of the Irish. 
A recent trend has shmvn stu­dents, both at the MBA and undergraduate levels, dropping out of school to pursue fame and wealth on the wavo of the lnterrncit revolution. l\cc:ording to a recent joint issue by Newsweek and Kaplan, the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania lost 25 of its 765 students dur­ing the 1 ()98-99 school year. .Business school applications are down, as dot-com start up com­panies snap up some of the nation's best and brightest. 
"Everyone's going to have to get a lot more creative, not only in recruiting students, but in retaining thPm," said Cheryl Crowe!, assistant director at the Doermer Family :\IIBA Career Development Center. 
Against all odds, Notre Dame has seen an opposite trend. Business school applications soared 32 

percent this "/ taught an MBA thing, to stay 
year, and the or drop," he

entrepreneurship class last 
mean GMAT said. "It's 

score jumped semester and I would say 
like should from 613 in that two-thirds ofthe T r o y
1997 to 667. 
Murphy

business plans were for 
"Applications 
drop and 

are way up dot-com companies. " 
become an 
and the qual­
NBA player?
ity of appli­

James Davis He's improv­
cants is the 
ing his game 

director of Gigot Center
highest it's 
and our stu-
Matta continued. "What people pay for in the end is the ability to execute on the business plans that you have. People want to look at the skill and the educa­tion level that you have." 
"The Notre Dame stud,mt is very entrepreneurial," said James Davis, director of the Gigot Center for entrepreneurial studies. "Ile doesn't want to be thP passengPr on the ship; he wanl'i to be the captain. We are very conscious of the trends. I taught an MRA 1mtrepreneur­ship class last semester and I would say that two thirds of the business plans wnro for dot-corn companies. Jt"s been a struggle to keep them in house. It's easi­er than ever before to get fund­ing." 
Although most Irish entreprn­neurs have elected to stay, there are a few who have vP.ntured out from under the Golden Dome. Three Ph.D. candidates left last year to start a company called Nuron. 
"We remain in contact, and they're doing great. They make enhanced video graphic cards. Intel and Micron are interested and it's created a heck ofa lot of excitement, " said Davis. 
Davis, however, does not advocate this path for everyone. "It's such a personal 
ever been. We have a fabulous retention rate (99 percent)," said Brian Lohr, the MBA program's assis­tant director of admission. 
Much of the reason for the positive numbers lies in a recent push towards entrepreneurial and e-commerce studies. The MBA program recently expand­ed to include tracks in e-com­merce, e-consulting and e­entrepreneurship. 
"There is a lot of hype sur­rom1ding the Internet," director of MIS programs Khalil Matta said. "People fail to recognize that for every venture that suc­ceeds, nine others fail. Here stu­dents can use our expertise as faculty. It increases the proba­bility for success." 
"Almost everyone has a good idea. Ideas are a din1e a dozen," 
denl'i have a greater probability of success." 
To improve even more on this probability, the Gigot Center is planning to launch a program next fall called Irish Angels. The program would use the exten­sive Irish alumni network to put entrepreneurial students in con­tact with funding opportunities. 
"Our primary goal is to launch Irish Angels next fall. There has been a lot of' interest in it and we are really excited about the work," said Theresa Sedlack, program manager at the Gigot Center. 
The Gigot Center hopes to be able to provide students with not only faculty resources, but also funding and mentors for their particular projects. 
"We're matchmakers," Davis said. 

Will be out at the Stepan Courts Today ! 

It
5 


2000 
Coach Doherty's B.ookstore Basketball team plays at 6: 15. Come on out and get on TV! 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 1 1, 2000 
Survey 
continued from page 1 
Cassidy, director of the Student Activities Oflice. The survey generated 1,136 student n~sponses beyond the randomly sam­
pled group. Of those responses, 1,058 said that it would be beneficial to have 24-hour student center access. 
"The most com­mon reasons given \for the 24-hour 

access comnlaint] · 
,, Cassidy 

were for uses which included eating, individual or group studying, socializing with friends and computer availability." said 1999-2000 Student L'nion secretary Luciana Reali, who chaired the social space subcommittee. 
Larortune rated very poorly as a recreational and entertainment facility, Reali said. Of the 1,136 free respon­dents 1,018 said they would not consid­er the current student center to be an entertainment venue for a weekend night. Students suggested the addition of a movie theater, a bowling alley, a nightclub or more large screen televi­sions as possible remedies to this con­cern. 
Students did, however, give LaForiunc some favorable ratings. Most considered the center's food service operations "good or fair," according to Reali. The most frequented areas inside the build­ing are in the Huddle Mart and the basement. 
But the majority of the 1,136 free respondents did agree that there should be more fast food restaurants in Lafortune, Reali said. Manv also rec­ommended a restaurant with table ser­vice. 
Reali said most students favored LaFortunc ·s current location but feel 
that the best solution to LaForlune's inadequacy is to erect a new stud1mt center or to make large scale renova­tions to the current center. 
"Many of the prohlems that were illustrated by the survey, such as the lack of adequate recreational space and the need for more 24-hour space, are self-evident on this campus," said Reali. "Howtwcr, the overwhelming student response we recci\'ed served to high­light the urgency of these problems and the necessity for student leaders to work with the administration to solve them." 
But Heal.i cautioned that although the administration has been receptive to student opinion in this matter, "we may not see major renovations to I.aPortunc or construclion ol' a new student center for the next fow vears." 
She also said ·that this represents the first time that Notre Dame students have heen consulted on a construction initiative. 
The issue of campus social space l'irst surfaced two to thrPc years ago, l'ollow­in g a University self study, Cassidy explained. He said these self-studies arc designed to effectively expose and address current cqncerns on the cam­pus. University self-studies are ccmduct­ed every 10 years. 
Afler the must 
ACE 
continued from page 1 
students," she said. 
Pangilinan didn't feel as though her Saint Marv's status was a dis­advantage fo; her acceptance in ACE. 
"I don't know if this is a rumor or fact, but I know it is a huge pri\i­lege and a great honor," she said. 
"Going into the interview, the people were warm and inviting. 1 was viewed as a person, not just as a Saint Mary's student," Pangilinan said. 
According to Pangilinan, the aspect of her application that helped her most was her teaching experience and her sense of being well-rounded. 
"l worked with non-majors, tutored many students, and was a TA in a lecture setting," she said. "ACE is a rigorous program in a foreign setting and looks for stu­dents that can adapt well," she said. "My flexibility helped." 
Additionally Pangilinan's firm religious convictions will help her succeed with ACE. 
"My spirituality and deeply rooted faith will allow me to contributo to this progrnrn," P angili11an said. 

Gunville will be returning to Notre Dame this summer to attend education classes before leaving for Baton Houge, La. to teach high school science and religion. 
''The big thing was th1) service opportunity and being able to inllu­cnce the lives of kids," Gunville said. 
Like Pangilinan, Gunville was planning on attending medical school after graduation. But. he dis­covered that medical school and teaching are quite similar. 
"Both doctors and professors have a sole goal of bettering the lives of other people," said Gunvillc. "A masters in education can only help you down the road when you're working with other patients," he said. 
Gunville also feels that faith is an important aspect of the ACE pro­gram. 
"As a person, I feel this is a big challenge," Gun ville said, "I will grow as a person as well as spiritu­ally." 
"It's really exciting to try and tackle something new and to be able to sham my faith with other people at the same time," Gunville said. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
j\heltU:::MUSIQVE 
CONCERT XIV 


$,tbola ;ff)Jlustcorum 
9:30 p.m. Wed., Apr.12, 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
~~.'.~.'m-mt·i.<J~}~J;l:{-~{l~'f1!;~:~~~'1w,~...tiif~'l•~~ 

Free and open to the public. www.nd.edu/-music for more info 
facilities on campus, according to Heali. 
In response to tho administration's request, the Student Senate committee on University Affairs formed Reali's social space ·subcommittee. The sub­committee consisted of members from various organizations within the Student Union. The subcommit­
"Student A,[fairs has all lhe 
tee was n<'r student opin­charged information from the surveys. the ion, as they are with investi­convenient for
focus groups and the hired consul­
gating fea­participation and 
tants. It's up to that office to do or not 
tures of stu­are easily facili­dent centers do anything with the results." tated via the at Notre Web," said Heali. Dame's penr Cassidy said
Joe Cassidy

institutions that rnsoarc:hing throughout director of Student Activities the campus 
the United States, gar­nering feed-bark from those individuals and groups who directly utilize the current studnnt center and creating the on-line survey. 
Heali said her subcommittee sent an e-mail message with a link to the on­line survey to every University under­graduate student. The survey's avail­ability was also publicized through the Ilall President's Council. Lim Student Senate and on tlrn 
recent self-study, University adminis­trators approached  " ... the overwhelming student response we received served to  "Student U n i o n Happenings"  
then-student body president Micah Murphy and mem­bers of his staff last  highlight the urgency ofthese problems and the necessity for student leaders to work with the  page of' The Observer each week last fall.  
fall. "[Administrators]  administration to solve them.,,  Results of the survey  
asked [Murphy] to gather student opinion regarding  Luciana Reali student union secretary  were collect­ed in an elec­tronic data­ 
social space," said  base operat- 
Reali.  ed by Dome  

The information that student govern­Designs, a student-run business on ment collected would be used for the campus. Hnsults were posted from Feb, prospect of constructing a new student 16 until March l on the World Widn center and to improve existing social Web. 
Reali said she was pleased with the surveying process. 
"We received a generous response to the survey, a much better success rate than has been achieved through student government paper surveys in past years. I think that on-lino surveys such as this will prove lo be an excel­lent way to gar­
social space situ­
ation has been u 
tremendous undertaking. In addition to the survey conducted by the Student Senate and tile random sampling of students and alumni, Cassidy said the University held f'ocus groups and hirnd professional consultants to better undr.rstand Notro Dame's current handling of social space and means to improve it. 
"We now have actual statistics on !student and alumni! opinion that can be used to effectively address every­one's, including the University's, c:on• cerns," Cassidy said. 
While Cassidy was iuvolvnd in facili­tating research on tho social space situ­ation. he said that the Student Activities Office will not be using the findings to implement campus changes. That job, he said, will be left to the Office of Student Affairs. 
"It's sort of a 'now that we have the results, what do we do?' situation," Cassidy said. "Student Affairs has all the information from the surveys, the focus groups and the hirnd consultants. It's up to that onice to do or not do any­thing with the results." 
No representative from Student Affairs was available for comment. 

Woman's Bookstore Basketball 
Captains' Meeting 

al 
Boosktore 

~ 

Boosktore 
Email: 
Office: 

Bkstr.1@nd.edu ~ 
631-6028

2000 
THIS WEDNESDAY EVERY TEAM MUST APRIL 12TH 5pm HAVE AREPRESENTATIVE MONTGOMERY THEATER LA FORTUNE 
BECAUSETHEREII/10REASON/IOI10P/Af 
--------------------------;----------------------------,---,-------------------­
orld 
I II 


Tuesday, April I I, 2000 COMPILED FHOM Tim OBSERVEH wnrn SEHVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Summit seeks to improve position of poor countries 
llJ\ VA:"J/\, Cuba 
1)01.Pns ol' \p;,.ders t'rum lhP. world's poor ('Ottntrii>s began gatlrnring Monday in Ct1ha to l'orgr a rnrnmon position demanding a gn'ater sharr of tlw world's powt>r and wealth The lirsl summit of' the 1:_n.,rnlion "(iroup of 77" is PXP('ctcd to call f'or dPbt relief. greater glob­al attPntion lo Uw nr,,ds of tlH' poor and pos• siblP stru!'lural changes i.n lh11 UnitPd Nations during its l'orrnal ,wssions on Wednesday and Thursday. "The process of globalization that Wl' have witnnsscd in rnePnt vr'ars has exacnr­bated probl!'ITIS (o!' poor /ountriesJ." said :\rth ur Mbando of NigPria. prrsidt3nt or tlrn (;roup of' 77. IIn said tlw summit would aim to "n,unlirw '.'lwrtb•South rP!ations wilh a virw to ,tsslirP that tlw South pl,tys an a1·tive rolr in llw dt~sign ol' Uw world !'.omnwrcial system." Of'tirials 1•stimaled that morn than 60 hnads of stalP or govrrnmrnt would appPar. 
Fann takeovers continue; bloodshed predicted 
IIAHJ\Hli, Zimbabwr 
Zimbabwr's attorrH'Y ge1wral ru!f1d out using polin• to oust black squattrrs from hun­drrds of' whit0-owpPd farms, saying Ylonday that doing so "would bi\ a match that would ignitP tlw country into a bloody conflagra­tion." Thr1w mor0 families fled their farms during thP wPekend. ll \Vas the first time since th!' l'arm tak!'OVPrs brgan in late February that whitr farmnrs havP nrnv11d after being ron!'rontPd by squatlPrs arnwd with axns. dubs. spPars and guns. One farmer wrpt as lw told 1wighbors that armr,d squatters forcPd him to sign a papPr saying hl1 was giving thnm his nrarlv 1.000-arn• tobacco farm in Karoi. 
125 mil!;s northwPst of llararn. In the 900 otlH'r or(·upird farms across tlw counLry. squattr,rs wnrn encamped outside buildings. unl'asi ly coPx isting with fannPrs and their wnrknrs. 
Man sentenced for kidnapping malnourished son from hospital 
S!\I.T U\KH CITY 
:\ man ,.vl10 with his wifl' sU1rvrd thPir son for n11igious rPasons and tlwn kidnappPd the malnourislwd bov 1'rnm a hospital was sen­tt'llr!'d \fondav to ·1 S months in jail. Authorities said Christoph;•r and Kyndra Fink believed their son. David. was thl' "Christ child" and fed him only watcrnwlon and 11:tiur,p, to knr.p him pun,. Tlw Finks -now divon:rd -spark1:d a nation­wide manhunt in 1998 whPn thr,v took tiwir 21­month-old bov from a Utah hospital. when1 he had brf'n takPn bv relatives for treatmPnt of sc•vr.rn main utritim;. Policr. found tlw couplr. 16 clays laLPr. living in a lPnt in thr mountains of ~lontana. Fink plradPd guilty lo child abusr and attPmptPcl aggravawd assault. 
·liiliiltdJffiiiM,4ltl
Dow AMF:x: 
958.04 ]ONES -3-20 Nasdaq:
+0.67 

.11~8.Z0 
-258.25 
i'JYSE 
659.71 
+.O~ 

S&P 500: Composite 1504.46 
\'olumc:
11186.50 Rn.800,000
-IUl9 
VOL ME lEADERS 

CmlUliX IICl!.U a i;BAma; S !:ti.!.NGE ,es;i;~i 
CISC<l SYSTRMg  C'SCQ  -3. 17  -2. 3775  72. 56  
MICaoso,r CORP  ME!P'l'  -3.37  -3. 0025  86.06  
OR.ACl.£ CORP  ORC!.t  -5.31  -•· 62.50  82. so  
NJ\SDAQ 100 EHAR  QQQ  -6 .. 10  -6.5050  10 0 .12  
lN'!'EL COII.P  TNT<:  -4 .16  -s. 6925  131 .12  
MCI WO!U.DCl'JM lN  WCON  -.H  -. 06lH)  42 .69  
oi:_;_~r. c;Qi-Jl'1JTER  DEt,r,,  -1. 35  -. 74 75  H--H  
GLOBAL f"ROSS!NG  CBLX  -11.tO  -4.1275  31.06  
SUN lllC'ltOSYSTEN  SUNII  _,. 91  -7.81.25  H.00  
PARAMETRIC TECH  t'NTC  •3.29  .o. :noo  ll. 62  

Elian's time in U.S. may be up 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

After 1·cJ'using for months to return Elian Gonzalez to his father, thr. boy's great-unclr mr.t with government­appointed psyd1iatrtsts Monday to urrange a transfer that won't trauma­tize the child. 
The m!'eting lastnd only an hour, despite the government's suggestion that it would take as long as thrPc. 
Thousands of people gathered Monday night a few blocks from the gn,at-unrle's homr and marched toward it. praying for Elian and r.riti­cizing federal ol'licials for their han­dling of th(' casP. Polir.e dosed about :rn city blocks to trailic. 
Immigration and Naturalizat.ion Sl'rvicn officials agreed to hold Monday's meeting at Meri;y llospilal to ar.i-omrnodate Elian's great-unde Lazaro (;onzalez. who said ho could not leave his 21•year•old d;wghter, Marislevsis. 
AHor;rnv General Janet Reno had described Monday's meeting as an important step toward reuniting the 6•year-old boy with his fathc-ff this week. The father. Juan Miguel Gonzalez. flew from Cuba to Washington on Thursday and met with the two psyr:hiatrists and a psy• r'hologist Sunday. 
The boy also did not attend Monday's meeting. llis Miami rela­tives had made it dear they were unhappy that the psychiatrists would not evaluate Elian. They said such an r.xamination would conclude he should not be returnrd to his f'athor. 
Immigration and Naturalization 
A Cuban-American woman yells, "Elian won't go back" in Spanish as 
Services and the l'amily would not 
thousands gather for a peaceful protest Monday in hopes of keeping the 
commnnl on what happened in the 
6-year•old boy in the U.S. Elian has been staying with relatives since his
meeting. A Justice Department offi­
arrival in the U.S. last November. 
cial. speaking on condition of anonvmitv. said the three doctors would br.id officials Tursday in Penelas agreed to ronline the meet­have a duty to this community." Washington. Decisions on how to ing to a discussion of how the reunifi­Sanchez said. "\Ve have fought the arrangr, tlrn transfer wern being cation will or.cur -not whcthr.r or battle, and what Elian is going to deferred until then. the official said. when. the Justice ollicial said. remember is that tlwse people here 
Among the options undfw consider­N0arlv five months after Elian was did not bctrav him." ation: bringing Elian to a neutral site rescued at sea, clinging to an inner Elian rrt~rned to his relatives· in Florida to be turrwcl over 0ithnr to tube. many in Miami's Cuban­house Monday evening with Lazaro Juan r-.1iguel. if he will go thPn'. or to !\merican community say they realize Gonzalez, who walkPd him around so a third party who would bring him to the bov's time in Little Havana could he could be seen bv the crowd. .Juan Miguel in Maryland. according be con;ing to an end. Carrying two balloons, he ran into the to the official. Another more remote Demonstrators have vowed to form back yard. "Elian. my friend, the peo­option would be for the Miami rela­a human chain around the house to ple are with you." the crowd chanted. tives lo bring Elian to .Juan Miguel in prevent the government from taking "Too many Americans take freedom Maryland. Elian. Ramon Saul Sanchez. president for granted," said Steven Sigurdson. 
Reno also planned to meet Tuesday of the Cuban-exile Democracy 33, an Anglo cellist with the Florida afternoon with Miami-Dade Mayor Movement, said he was "planning to Philharmonic who was rehearsing Alex Penr.las, Miami Mayor Joe exercise whatever influence we have" down the street and stopped by Carollo and possibly one of Elian's over demonstrators to assure nonvio• Elian 's house, where he waved a great-unrles. Lazaro or Delfin lence. Cuban flag. "They don't understand Gonzalez, the Justice ollicial said. "We must also understand that we it's something you need to fight for." 

GAMBIA 
Violence erupts at student protest 
girl by a police oflicr.r. fray. "This is a criminal act
A,sociated Pres• 
When students gathered Police apparently used which should not go at thl! gate of the Gambia live ammunition to restore unpunished," said human
BANJUL 
Technir'.al Training ordm·, killing at (Past eight rights activist Ebrima Pnlic1: openrd f'irn on a 
Institute to march to the students, morgue officials Jallow. 
student demonstration 
city cr.nter. police ordered said. Many morn were The government blamed Monday. killing at least 
them to disperse, then injured, though hospital student leaders for the
nillf) people, including a 
opened fire with tnar gas staff did not have exact rioting in a statement journalist _in this West 
and rubbN bull.els. figures. issued Monday afternoon. 
African dtv. 
The students scattered, Omar Barrow, an and ordered the immr.di­
The Garnbia Students 
but later rev;roupcd, set­International Committ()C of ate closure of ail schools 
Uniou was df'uied a µtmnit 
ting up barricades with the Red Cross volunteer until further notice. 
for the marrh organized in 
burning tires and throwing and journalist with the Dozens ol' students w<crr 
protest against the recent stones at the policA. private Sud rM radio sta· arrested 
dflath or a high school stu­
Government buildings tion, was hit by a stray Calm prevailed Monday
clnn t, who was allegedly 
wore attacked, a police bullet while trying to help night, as police and sol• 
tortured by security forcf> station set on fire and injured students at Red diers maintained a heavymembNs. and the report­
stores looted as unem­Cross headquarters, wit• presence in the city's
ed rape of a 13-year-old ployed youths joinAd in the nesses said. largely deserted streets. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, April 11, 2000 
CHINA 
Government rejects bombing explanations 
Associated Press 
BEIJIN(; 

Unsatisfied by the !iring of a Central lntelligenc(' Ag<'ncy employeH. China today n~jected U.S. explana­tions for last year's bombing of thr. Chinese Embassy in Belgrade that set back 1:ela­tions between Washington and Beijing. 
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesnrnn Zhu Bangzao said claims that the United States did not know the cor­rpr,t location of thP embassy are "not justil'ied." lhe ofti­cial Xinhua News Agency reported. 
Zhu also said it was "bard for people to heli1we" that the bombing was the t'ault of several officials whose mis­takP was not corrected in a review pro!'.ess. 
Z h u 
a n

"It was impossible for the
repeated sparkfldearlier U.S. side to mix up these \'iolcnt demands stone­
two buildings."

that the throwing
United protestsS t a t e s Zhu Bangzao against thorough-Chinese foreign ministry spokesman the U.S. 
intended bombing target ... had been properly identified anrl precisely lof'.ated before CIA passed a target nomina­tion package to the U.S. mil­ita rv for action," CIA spokesman Bill Harlow said. 
But Zhu, the Chinesn spokesman. said the UnitNl States told China that eight CIA officers wnrc sanc­tioned. Washington informed Beijing 011 Saturdav about results of an investigation into the bomb­ing. 
Zhu said that Washington "only admitted that the U.S. side used an inappropriate nH1 thodology to locatci Uw target and that the rcvicvv process at every level failfld to find the mistake." 
The May 7 bombing, which killed three Chinese and wounded 20 others, rocked relations d 
ly investi­gate the bombing, strictly punish those responsible and give China "a satisfactory expla­nation." 
The CIA said Saturday that an agency employee blamed for incorrectly targeting the Chinese Embassy was fired and that six others, includ­ing a senior official and four managers, received admin­istrative punishments rang­ing from oral warnings to letters of reprimand. 
"'.\iumerous CIA officers at all levels of responsibility failed to ensure that the 
Embassy 
and con­sulates in China, as well as buildings belonging to other NATO countries. 
Protesters were further· infuriated by reports in Chinese government-run media that suggested the bombing was intentional. 
In retaliation, Beijing sus­pended military contacts and talks on human rights, arms control and security issues. While ties have thawed, the bombing remains a sensitive topic and relations have yet to recover fully. 

CONCERT _ Saturday, April 15, 2000, 4:00 pm
/#? 0 'Laughlin Auditorium 
i~ Saint Mary's College 
56.00 Adults -54.00 Children 
Sponsored b_,·: The Early Childhood Deaelopme111 Center & Sailll Mary', College 
ECDC: Celebratin 25 Years 

McCain: Clinton will be Senate 'star' 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
He's certainly not endorsing her. but Arizona Sen . .John McCain on Monday predicted that ii' llillary Hod ham Clinton is eln!'.ted to thP SPnatn. she will be a "star" in th1~ tradi­
tion  or  
Hobert  F.  
Kennedy.  
"This  is  

the first time in his­tory a first lady has nm." Urn l'ormer can­diditte for the llepublican prcsi­den tial nomination told stu­dents at Columhia Univ11rsity. "She would be a star of tlw quality that has not hecn seen in the Sonato since Bobby Kennedy was (Jl1!ctml sonator from tht; statP of New York. 
"Many of us believe that in a sc(rnario if IVice !'resident All Gore lost and she is elected to tho Spnatn, she'd be running for the presid1rnt of' the United States," McCain said. 

Clinton has said that if eloctecl she will serve her full six-year term and that sh1i is not int.nr­estcd in Lhe presidency. 
J\sk(id to clarify his remarks about Clinton, Mc Cai 11 said. "I bnlievo shn'd be vory lilrnra.l 

McCain and I don't be I i e v o slw'd bn good l'or tlrn rountry." A day earlier, McCain cam­
paigrrnd in Now York City for Clinton's Republican rival for tho Snnato snat, Mayor Hudolph Giuliani. 
I le told the students Giuliani would bring "credentials to tho Snnate that arn much nnr.ded and very sadly lacking. Giuliani understands 1.hn challnngcs of u major city" on issues like crime and transportation, Im said. 
But McCain also made a jok­ing reference to his and Giuliani's reputations for bel­ligerence, saying: 'Tm sure he and I would lrn vying for Miss Congeniality." 
Asked by a student aboul Giuliani's handling of tlw police killing ol' an u1rnrmed black man, Pat.rick Dorisn,ond. McCain said: "I bnlieve Mayor Giuliani will be committed to reconciliation and harmony here in tlw city. In your view and others, he probably has not do11n well nnough IH1cause I havn heard similar comments to yours. But I hopo hn will in tho fut.urn rnpair that situation.'" 
But McCain also crPdited Giuliani with turning tlw city around. "When I canw to tlw city 10 years ago I couldn't. walk in tlw street," Im said. "I couldn't go into Central Park. I couldn't oven rid!) in a cab without foar of sonrnbody jrrk­ing op0.n tlw door and yanking mn out.." 

BRAZIL 
Caged lion kills 6-year-old boy 
in a televised interview. 
Associated Press Police and circus employees were unable to removn the body l'rom the cage, which !mid four HIO DE JANEIRO other lions. Police thr.n fiwd on the lions with rifles 
A caged circus lion snatched a 6-year-old boy and handguns, killing thren. from his father's arm, A circus employee who dragged him through the d1iclined to be identified said in
"He dragged my son away,

bars and killed him. police in a TV interview that tlw lions
and when I looked my son

northeastern Brazil said were famished and had not Monday. was in his mouth. " been fod since Thursday. Jose dos Santos Fonseca The show was held near and his son Jose apparently Hecifo, about 1,160 miles north­
Jose dos Santos Fonseca

got too close to the lions' cage east of Rio de Janeiro. during the Sunday night father Tim circus employees said show of the Vostok Circus, such an incident is unlward of, Pcmambuco Statr. police said. but extensive prncautions will 
"Ile dragged my son away, and when I looked bn taken to pnwent such a tragedy l'rom happen-my son was in his mouth," a weeping Fonseca said ing again. 

CYOCAMP 
RANCHO FRAMASA Summer Employment Available 
CO-ED RESIDENTIAL CATHOLIC CAMP IN NASHVILLE, INDIANA General Counselor Positions Available American Red Cross Lifeguard Training Available High Ropes Facilitator Certification Available Room and Board Provided Inclusive Programming June 2 -August 12 
For employment application or more information Call (toll-free): 1-888-988-2839 or E-mail us at : CYOCAMP@AOL.COM 
Tuesday, April l 1, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
UNITED KINGDOM 
Government considers 24-hour pubs 
archaic laws set during alcohol abuse contributes to 40 Associated Press 
wartime," said Mary Curnock. percent of violent crime, 78 per­director of the British Institute of cent of assaults and 88 percent
LONDON 

lnnkeepiug which represents of criminal damage cases. A
Hoping to cut down on bingo 16,500 liccns!'es. 1993 government survey found
drinking and pub brawls, the 
In practice, police and pub 1.hal 16 percent of all violent
British government proposed a 
ki>epers flXpcct the 24-hour incidi>nts happened in or nearnovel id(•a Monday: Allow bars licenses to be confined to the pubs or clubs; a study the previ­to stay opHn 24 hours a day. 
centers or London and other big ous year found 4 7 percent of vio­
Scrapping tlrn mandatory 11 
citfos, with tlrn main aim to stag­lent incidents rn~ar pubs happen
ll.m. dosing timr, was the c1~n­
gc r closing iimes between 11 bf:tween 11 p.m. and midnight.
lerpiec!' of' plans to liberalize 
p.m. and 3 a.m. The now policy, which could
and streamline licensing laws 
In Cambridge, Ceri Garrntt, ht' law by the summer of 2001,tlrnt wNe inspired by fears or 
landlady of the Baron of' Beef would bring Rritain into line
munitions workers getting drunk pub. has long pressed for with other European countries.
during World War I. 
change. Rowdy deadline Many Parisian bars servo alco­"Fixed closing times encour­
drinkflrs recently smashed an hol until the early huurs, andage bingP drinking around last ornamental stainPCl glass win­some dubs dispense drinksorders," llome Secretary Jack 
dow at the inn beside the Hivcr steadily until they close at dawn.
Straw told the ]louse of 
Cam. In many German cities, barsCommons. "The result is lots of 
"Somf1 peo-sl'rve alcohol
peopln hilling the streets -and ple down suv­all night, andsometimes each other -al the 
flral pints just "This is a step in so do some
same time." 
before closing bars in the
Under tlw govnrmmml propos­the right direction 
time," she Spanish capi­als, rclnased as a discussion 
said. toward the repeal of tal, Madrid. In
paper, any pub. Jicr,nsed caf'e or 
As an exper­archaic laws set Denmark,
restaurant can apply to stay iment. bars sr>mo pubs and
open for 24 hours, seven days a during wartime." 
across Britain cafes Jay onweek. 
were allowed the liquor untilWhilP some U.S. r.ities anrl 
to serve alco­Mary Curnock 5 a.m. on
towns am moving toward earlier weekends.
bar closings to combat heavy hol around director of the British 
tlrn clock on In Britain, a
drinking, in Aritain, thf' hurflau­Institute of lnnkeeping
New Year's law passed in
crats. police and bartenders all Eve and the 1921 in
bt\liP.VI\ that longer hours ­
night passed response to
allowing for staggered closing 
peacefully, encouraging Straw's fears aroused during World Wartimt!S -will reduce binge drink­officials to go for a radical over­I -cut pub opening times froming and alcohol-related crime. 
haul. 19 to 10 hours on weekdays, andChildren will also be allowed The changes would affect five hours on Sundays.
into pubs for the first time -but 
140,000 pubs, restaurants, In 1988, the government abol­
only to watch. Eighteen is the 
hotels and nightclubs in England ished a compulsory weekdayminimum legal age for buying and Wales. Scotland, which has afternoon closure in pubs inalcoholic drinks in a pub. 
different drinking laws. already England and Wales. But the 11
Pub owners and many 
allows pubs in some areas to p.m. closing remained, except
drinkers said cheers. 
remain open until 3 a.m. for nightclubs which can serve
"This is a step in the right 
British siudies suggest that alcohol up to 3 a.m.
direction toward the repeal or 
KUWAIT 

Six traditionalists attack wolllan 
. Student whipped for not wearing scarf 
Associated I'ress 

KUWAIT 
Authorities said Monday they have arrest­ed six Muslim tradil.ional­ists suspected of attack­ing a woman last week, reportedly because she did not abide by Islam's strict dress code. 
The Interior Ministry distributed photos of the bearded men, ages 21 to 35, with a statement say­ing a seventh suspect was still at large. 
A ministry spokesman declined to provide details of the Wednesday attack before the investi­gation is complete. 
Newspaper reports said the 19-ycar old Kuwaiti student was walking to her car in a college park­ing lot when three men approached and asked her why she did not cover her hair with a scarf. 
When she told them it was none of their busi­ness, they whipped her on the back with an elec­trical wire, cut her hair and took away her cellu­lar phone before nccing, the reports said. 
Most Kuwaiti women wear long clothes and cover their hair, but Islamic dress is not man­e.lated by law and is not imposed on forr,igrrnrs. 
The Interior Ministry said the suspects have not only insulted the girl and her family, but also the whole community that "rejects this kind of behavior." 
The statement said investigations were under way, along with other similar attacks that apparently were not reported to the police. 
Kuwait's traditionalists, who arc represented by some 20 lawmakers in the 50-seat Parliament, want to fully implement Islamic law, or Sharia, in this oil-rich state. Their influence has grown, especially among the young, since the end of the 1991 Gulf War that liberated Kuwait from a seven-month Iraqi occu­pation. 
Several leaders denied any connection to the attack. The Cabinet has asked the National Security Agency to "study all aspects of the issue" and recommend ways to prevent it from happen­ing again. 


VIEWPOINT 
O
HIE 

page 8 BSERVER Tuesday, April 11, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Uox Q, No,re Dorne. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame. lN 46556 
EOJTOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR 8USINF.SS MANAGER 
Norem Gille,pic Tim Line 

ASST. MANAGING EmTOR OPERATIONS MA.NAGER 
Tim Logan Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Martingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Ilaughey 
SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amand1 Greco 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Mully McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR: 1.i, Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Par Peters 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chis Avila 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROLLER: Bob Woods 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 

CONTACT Us 
Ornn MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631•747! fAX.............................................................6.'ll-6927 ADVERTISING..................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/A.ssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-53 l 3 NEws .......................................................... 631-5323 
observer .obsnews.l@nd.edu VJEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS .......................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE .. ··················•····················•····•······· .. 631·4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMIN!STRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobseroer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movi.es/music for 
weather for u p·ro-rhe 
weekly student reviews 
minute forecasts 
online features for spe·
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 
and rares of prinr ads 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
to meer the editors and 
anicles published after 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe students ofrhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content. including adverrisemems, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemencs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe maioriry of rhe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparrmem editors. Commemarie., lerters and columns present rhe views of the aurhors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leuers to the Editor must be signed and musr include contact i11formatjon. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 

Keeping the faith in law school 
U.S. News has dropped Notre Oame Law School from 21st to 26th. So what? 
There are more important measures of a law school. For example, Notre Dame has earned preeminence for decades as a law school which encourages students to integrate the study of law with morality and faith. And now vindication of that effort can be seen in the emer­gence of three new Catholic law schools, two with a Notre Dame connec­tion. Imitation is the sincerest form of l1attery. 
Barry University took over Orlando School of Law and held its first graduation this past January. 
The University of St. Thomas will open a law school in St. Paul, Minn., in August 2001. The founding dean is David Link, who retired in 1999 after 24 years as dean of Notre Dame Law School. 
Ave Maria School ol'Law, which will open in Ann Arbor this August, is practi­cally a Notre Dame outreach. Dean Bernard Dobranski is a Notre Dame grad who taught at Notre Dame from 1977 to 1983. Five of the founding faculty am grads of l'\otre Dame Law School. Professor Gerard Bradley and I arn on the Board of Governors. 
The new schools make sense in light of the failure of most of the 24 existing Catholic law schools to offer an cnective response to the secular American legal culture. In 1978, Dean Roger Cramton described "the ordinary religion of the law school classroom," as "a moral rela­tivism tending toward nihilism. a prag­matism tending toward an amoral instru­mentalism, a realism tending toward cynicism. an individualism tending toward atomism and a faith in reason and democratic processes tending toward mere credulity and idolatry." 

Over the past two decades the situation has worsened. A utilitarian positivism recognizes no moral limits on what the law can do. The implicit dogma of American legal education is that reason is incapable of knowing objective moral norms. Affirmations of objective morality and especially of God are considered nonrational and irrelevant to academic discussion. 
The patron saint of this denial of the intellect is Oliver Wendell Holmes who wrote, "I wonder if cosmically an idea is any more important than the bowels." Ilolmes defined truth as "the majority vote of the nation that could lick all oth­ers. I see no reason," he wrote, "for attributing to man a significance diner­ent in kind from that which b1\]ongs to a baboon or a grain of sand." 
Notre Dame Law School, of course, offers a different view. Notre Dame. how­evnr. has room for only a relative fi,w of those who want a legal education which integrates morality and law in light of the Catl-iolic tradition. The new schools can rill that need. 
"What does Ave Maria mean for Notre Dame?" asked Dean Link. "I can think of nothing but good. The attPntion being paid to the opening of Ave Maria will help all religiously based law sr,hools (including ours) to maintain their ... mis­sion. We don't all need to do this in the same way, but each of us needs to remain true to ... fundamental principles including (in tlrn case of Catholic law schools) the natural law. Tho presence of former and current NDLS !'acuity mem­bers in leadership roles at other law schools will help expand the inllmmce of' our different kind oflaw school ... The competition and the interaction or faculty and deans will make all n)ligiously ori­ented law schools stronger." 
As Ave Maria Dean Dobranski put it, the new schools ''arc not competitors with each other or with other Catholic law schools. The more of us who are try­ing to offer an education that integrates law and morality, the better." 
Judge Robert Bork, an Ave Maria fac­ulty member, said its founding "is a great thing for legal education in general." Ave Maria, he said, "will be more like the law schools of 30 years ago, before they became so highly politicized." 
Supreme Court Justice Clarnnce Thomas, who delivered the school's first Ave Maria Lecture last November, said the school is "trying to bring back what's lost. That's very important." 
In keeping with its motto, Fides et Hatio, Ave Maria will integrate the law with faith and reason. Ave Maria fully accepts Ex Corde Ecclesiac, the Apostolic Constitution on Catholic universities. Its curriculum will focus on the "nuts and bolts" of the law. 
But it will move to a new and higher levPI that no other law school even attempts. It will combine open1rnss to free inquiry with a systematic study each year of the moral and social teachings of the Church as they relate to law and poli­cy. Ave Maria aims to produce warriors, not bystanders, in the cultural war. 
The answer to the "culture of death" lies in the moral and social teachings of' the Catholic Church. America needs lawyers who are technically competent, who arc solidly formed in those teachings and who live their faith in Christ. Notre Danrn Law School continues to serve the nation uniqunly and well in encouraging its students to Jill that rn1ed. 
And the idea is catching on. Maybe somebody will tell the editors of U.S. News about it. 
Professor Rice is on the Lau• Schoolfac­ulty. I/is column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those rif the author and not necessarily those rifThe Obser11er. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

TI-\EN I'll HA\/£ SHOULDN'T HE TRAI ENOUGH DIRECT WE HAVE A UDGET, I REPORT5 TO GET A STRATEGY? FFORD T VICE PRESIDENT 
I

0 MO TITLE. 
THANK.5 
A5KING. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There are obviously two educations. One should teach us how to make a living and the other how to live ... 
James Truslow Adams author 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Tuesday, April 11, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
Men's silence concerning rape is condoning 
Choice for Elian is easy, obvious 
It is tragic that 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez has become the pawn of the walously anti-Castro Cuban exiles in Florida. The psychological impact of making this young boy a celebrity is but one negative effect being perpetu­ated by the anti-Castro zealots. Elian's Miami relatives have even suggest­ed that Castro will eJ<ecute the child if he returns to Cuba. 
In preparation for civil disobedience, the fever pitch has afTrctod tlrn mayor of Miami-Dade County who initially opµosnd Fndera.1 intervention by threatening to prrvent local police from supporting Federal mar­shals. 
I cannot think of a b(!tter description for the anti­Castro exiles' antics than to use a phrase telPvision's Judge Judy often employs to summarize a series of actions in her C()Urtr()om. Judge .Judy regularly char­acterizPs bizarrl' conduct such as that which is c-ur­rnntly on display in Miami as, "Stupid, stupid, stupid!" 
Stupid #l: The U.S. relatives of young Elian are wrong in their actions and thinking. 
First, rather than plarc the boy in a foster home, the government temporarily put the boy in a home with relatives. That temporary custody does not auto­matically give those relatives the right to keep the boy, nor docs the custody validate the family's cre­dentials for permanent care. Their insistence that they will not hand over the child to his father is part of an appalling internal family feud. 
Stupid #2: 
Anti-Castro exiles arn so hateful and defiant, they employ any means, including disrngard· of U.S. law and the exploitation of a innocent 6-year­old boy, to demean and overthrow Fidel Castro. While freeing Cuba through the downfall of Castro is an admirable goal, using hate to blind one's common sense and family decency is not healthy. 
For the mayor of Miami-Dade County to join the family's resistance and defiantly oppose the Attorney General, like George Wallace did when he stood in the Alabama schoolhouse door, panders to mob mentality. The mayor's actions also violate his oath to uphold the laws of the United States and invalidate the rule of law. It is that principle that is the strength of the American system and supposedly the reason the family wants the child to remain in the U.S. in the first place. 
Stupid #3: 
The harsh stand by the Miami-area exiles has actuall:y strengthened their Communist opponents. The exiles' actions have reinvigorated Castro and his supporters in Cuba. The hot-headed confrontation and hard-line resistance by Cuban exiles has rallied Communists in Cuba like no other issue in decades. 
Young Cubans identffy with their brother Elian who is being held from his father and sec this as a fight against the oppressive, giant United States. 
Their greatest joy, hollow though we consider it, will be when young Elian lands back on his native soil. 
!\nd young Elian will eventually land on his native Cuban soil. All law ­family. immigration, juvenile -sides with the father's rights. The boy is too young to know what he really wants, so he cannot make a judgment to ask for asylum. Every parent wants custody of the children when a spouse dies. Courts ran only prevent that scenario when abuse or neglect can be determined. 
If one were to use the Miami family members' logic that this country is prosp11rous, frne, and life here is in the best interest for the boy, then our immigration laws would be unfair and void. The U.S. returns illegal Cuban refugees -which Elian is -who do not reach land unless the aliens can show that they qualify for political asylum. If the U.S. was to alter its laws to keep Elian, we would have totally open borders and quickly be overrun by Cubans as well as other refugees from most of the Third World. 
Further following the flawed logic of the Gonzalez family in Miami, it wuuld be our government's obligation to infiltrate American-based hate groups, cults, militia groups and other "harmful" organizations and rnmove those children from their parents. The question becomes, what should our government consider when assessing the quality of life for Elian or American children'? 
Should it consider the politics, the living ronditions, the opportunitif's or the abundance of wealth? Why should Elian be given special consideration just because Fidel Castro is a Communist who is hated by a large commu­nity in Miami? Are Neo-Nazis living within our U.S. borders not as harmful to their children? 
The tragedy !'or the Cuban exiles is that they are using Castro-like tactics lo "save" Elian. To them, the boy must remain free in the U.S. regardless of the law. They arc running in a circle as long as they arc consumed by their hate. Granted, most of them are currently without a homeland. Someday Castro will no longer rule lhc island, and maybe these exiles can return home. Maybe many of them will opt to remain in the United States or bring their remaining family members from Cuba. But that day has yet to arrive, and Uiey am not the dictators of young Elia.n's fate. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is serving in President Clinton's admin­istration as a Congressional and public aJJairs director and is currently assisting Vice President Gore's White !louse empowerment commisi,ion. 1 /is column appears every other Friday, and his e-mail address is !Iott line@aol.com. 
The 11iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe OhsPrtier. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

1would like to take this opportunity to commend all the women on this campus and at Saint Mary's who have taken a stand and chosen to speak out. against the horror that is rape. At the same time I would like to call upon all the men on this campus to also take a stand. This silence coming from the male portion of this community is reprehen­sible. While not all men are rapists, 98 per­cent of all perpetrated rapes are committed by men. 
These women that are violated are some­one's daughter or maybe someone's girl­friend ... or maybe someone's sister. Notre Dame men, we have it within our power to condemn rape on this campus, to weed out those among us who think that if she says, 
Legal system must be just 
With confidence, I can say that the Bible has been subjected to more interpretation than any other work of literature ever writ­ten. Shakespeare once v>Tote that, "even the devil can cite scripture for his own purpos­es." Now, I am not advocating that 
any one of these interpreta-death; moreover, when one of tions is wrong, I am simply His apostles struck the ear arguing that in my view, of a member of the mob the Bible does not jus­that took Him away to tify the use of the be crucified, Jesus death penalty. healed the ear of 
It can be said His foe (Luke that the law laid 22:50). Jesus out for humanity called upon us to in the Old ~ forgive the sins of Testament calls '1 those who may for harsh and ~ have wronged us swift justice for sin ~ while not passing and thus the Bible t.l..\ judgment as well endorses capital ..._\\~~ (Luke 6:37). punishment. But, .._1l'" The Bible is open to Catholicism is not interpretation; however,
v,~entirely based on Old r I plead that you consider Testament law and in fact, that the Rible cannot advocate according to Jesus, Old Testament the death penalty, for if it did, all 
law became invalid once Jesus came to us on earth. Jesus states that, "the law was our tutor to bring us to Christ but after faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor" (Galatians 3:23-24). According to Christ, the Old Testament law was created to govern our actions before we had faith. After accepting Jesus, we became sons of God by faith (Galatians 3:26). 
We gained our own faith through the Bible and the teachings of Jesus that allowPd us to abandon Old Testament law. 
Got a point? Observer. Viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
"No!" she's playing hard to get or those 
among us who justify rape by saying, "We 
were drunk." 
There is nothing more disturbing or more disgusting than rape, especially on a cam­pus founded upon and dedicated to the teachings of our Lord and Savior, .Jesus Christ. It is not enough to simply shake our heads in disgust at reports of rape, you must shout it from the rooftops, "RAPE IS WRONG!" 
Who is worse, the man who rapes or the man who condones it with his silence? 
Christopher Reyes Senior, Off-campus April 9, 2000 
This faith compels us to forgive those who have wronged us. Jesus himself forgave criminals (Luke 23:43), an adulteress (John 
8:11) and even a tax collector. Jesus himself 
forgives His executioners and does not call upon His apostles to avenge His 
that Jesus taught us ,would mean nothing. Currently our legal system is based on revenge not justice. There is no mercy in tho killing of an individual created in the image of God by another human being. There is no forgiveness of the accused in stato-sanctionod murder. Thero is no justice in capital punishment. 
Clayton Swope Freshman, Sorin Hall April Ill, 2000 

The stairs leading down to the Most people don't dance at co/lee and sandwich shop basPment of the Hive are pre­Butterfly Et'fi>ct shows. The kind nPar campus that lw rfoscribes cariously old and worn. One of motion the band coaxes out as "decidedly ecc1mlric." step in particular wobbles a lit­of an audienco is at most a bob­When he lirst applied for a job tle too much for r.omfort, espe-bing head to k()('P tinrn or a thorn, Im was rejm:ted. But cially ii' you · gentle sway in rhythm with the once he got his foot in the are going ~-~~---music -as gentlo as a bntterfly door, he workfld his way up to back down flapping its wings ... his current position. Tlw lights aftpr refill­at Lula's arc dim, Urn walls ing your chaos theory are covered with local artists' cup of beer Tht~ term "butterl1y effect" work and soft jazz providns at one of comes from scientist Edward the ultra-hip background the month­Lornnz's Chaos Theory. It statPs soundtrar.k. ly µarties that a small force, like the !lap­Notrn Dami' isn't known l'or held therP. ping of a butterlly's wings in the its diversity, 11specially in 
Tonight's United States, can result in a regard to artistic pPopln. Few party is Iarg1-1 reaction, like a tidal wave Notrn Dame studnnts start hot. as par-or a tornado halfwav across the bands. and th1•y g,1nerally ties l1ere planet. • don't like bands that writn usuallv The Butterllv Effect, (the their own music. "I kinda are. The band) is likewise, a small force. lucked into nrneling a bunch. stone walls Thev have never been seen in this whole group of pimple, the arr wet and the room is dark -performance by more than 200 first weekfmd, the freshman lit only by some Christmas lights people at a time. and occasion­orientation w1wkend. who dangling above the band at the ally they have been seen by as were all into punk and what­far end of the room. The stmw few as four. They rnadn only not," Doug said. walls bounce the grinding 100 copies of their self-released Then, an 1went lrnlped dirnct music. making it even louder first album, Now Everybody. his focus: Chisel. and more ear-splitting. Thn difference between this "At t!rn end of' October them 
Tonight's performance by the band and lhe countless others vvas this 'farnwdl to Bush' 13utwrny Effoct is typical. When in the country is that tlrn party, right bel'orn Elnction the local band first started play­Rutt.Prlly Effoct could truly Day. lt was just kind of a pre­ing live shows, singer/guitarist cause a large reaction. Through liminary ctdi~hration of Bush Doug McEachern scr<:'amed so thn swirling, distorted tones of bning votml out," Doug tells. hard that by the fourth song his Doug's guitar comes true music. Campus bands Gropn for voice was a harsh grumble, Vinny says then' is a basic dif­Luna, Urn Sister Chain and ban•ly able to hit the right f<'rcnce between most srnall­Chisd wern scheduled to play notPs. It didn't matter, though. tinw bands and the bigger, outside at tlw Finldhousn Mall. Butwrl1y EfTcct songs have more popular ones. "It's usually Doug didn't know much about alwavs had more to do with just more honest," he says of any of tlH!lll. fot>lir1g than with tunefulness. small bands. "And if' you're a lie watdrnd (;ropP for Luna 
Tonight. the Butterfly Effect musician you can hear that." for a while. thon walked plays anotlJPr energetic and Singer/guitarist Doug across North Quad to 1\al din­emotional set. Those lucky J\1cEachern explains his fascina­ner at tlrn dining hall. Wlrnn enough to be in the basement tion with chaos tbeorv this wav: he came back, he saw some of stand, watch and listen. A girl in "It's just kinda neat liow all th~ the Sister Chain set and wasn't a long skirt dances by herself off little decisions and actions you impressed. Cnnnthusc. d, he to one side. A few people even make add up and makn big went up to his third !loor room strikingly honest and open. H's The biggest problmn for Dougknow the band's lyrics and sing changes over time, which is in Cavanaugh llall, which is almost like he's sPlling his diary is that his girlfriend liws inalong. Each song's end is met really what the butterfly effect adjacent lo where thn bands for 50 cen1.'i a pop to anyone Portland. Oregon. That's thewith approval from the scientifically means -sensitive were playing. "l just heard that interested enough to read it. main reason why he's movingobservers. It's not just polite dependence on initial condi­distorted harmonic sound. 
1-Iis lyrics, Loo, read like a there in April. lie says he wantsclapping. It's a sincere thank tions. Or if you just slightly vary 'Sounds like someone tuning ... 
diary. "l think lyrics are key to to "have a somewhat settled lifoyou for sincere music. the input of a complicated sys­Sounds like a punk-style band the music l listen to ... I tend to for a little while, at least withAlthough Doug has learned tem. you get wildly different tuning.· So I went down and it connect mostly to the lyrics in Meghan, instead of' two ynars ofrestraint in the two years since results." was Chisel and I was all, 'yyy­music." Doug refers to CarVfJr living 2,000 miles apart."
that first show. Butterny Effect Both McEaclrnrn. 25. and eeeaaahhh!' " when he says that "good art isp('rformances bassist Ron Chisd was lt very popular 
more than just s,1l1'-expression, rich and extravagant lifestyles 
nnvpr lack Garcia, 24, indif1-rock campus band that it's communication ... where For the past two years Dougintensity. "[Small bands' music} is arc math and played original material. They you are not only getting across has been using his Pngirrnering Doug-a science nuts. were the inspiration for count­
usually just more honest. 
how you feel, you are getting it degree to make sandwichns andshy, awkward They both less other similar-minded cam­
and ifyou're a musician across so well that tlrn other coffee at Lula's and delivnr piz­
and nerdish majored in pus bands at thn timn and the person understands and fnels zas for Pizza llut. lie doesn'tlooking fellow you can hear that" engineering backbone of the local sccme. II' it something too." have health insurance butduring the at Notre weren't for Chisel, the Buttr. rlly Hon puts that notion another there's a clinic downtowndav-trans­Dame, where Effect might not exist.
Doug McEachern way. "Music is a way Lo commu­where he gets dental checkups
forms into a they first met nicate ... feelings, thoughts ...
firecracker of singer/guitarist -Doug was the storyteller killed the scientist for $5. He is still paying off 
while evi>ryone dmisn't get thmn school loans. Vinny works for apunk angst the Butterlly Effect in mechanical -"Science Killr1d the exactly as you sent them out. local center that helps childrenduring per­engineering Storytcllnr," Now Everybody they still get some insight." with disabilities. Hon is still formances. and lton was Although he graduated from Ironically, as tho Butterfly going to school. 
Drummer Vinnv Carrasco in electrical engineering. "The Notre Dame in Jauuary 1997 Effect preparns to record its fol­So how do the mmnlrnrs or thebounces around bPhind the band name preceded Vinny," with a nrnchanical engineering low-up album. Urn band's immi­Butterfly Fffect afford their rich.
drum set. singing along with Garcia says. Drummer Vinny dr,grn0. Doug is inlent on never nent breakup looms in the n<mr extravagant lifostylPs'!
Doug, while bassist Hon Garcia Carraso, 26, is the lone liberal using his engineering training. 
future. "Don't ask me questions aboutswavs back and forth with his arts major, concentrating in Writing liction, not music, is his "I'm just ready to !nave South morwy. Thal's boring ... I makefof~t-Iirmly planted, concentrat­political scii-mce during his main interest nowaday~. lie Bend," McEachcrn explains. very little," Vinny says. 
ing on perfectly laying down undergrad11atp, time at Notre cites authors like Haymond "l\,·r, been here for sev1m-and-a­"We don't livn rich. extrava­t)ach song's foundation. Dame. Car\'er, James .Joyce, DaYid half years." gant lifestyles!'' Doug emphati­Most of Lim Butterily Effect's Although McEacbern says, Fosler Wallace, Kurt Vonnegut Vinny looks forward to IHaving cally adds.
performances are hPre in the "our songs would bP tho same and Ernest lfmningway as some South Bell(! too, sonwday, but "Yeah, hardly," Vinny agrePs. 
basnnwnt of the Hive -other­no nrntter what we wero of'his favorites. ln l'acl. thn lw generally holds South Bend ''I've never even eaten at thewiiw known as Ron's house -callf'd," the title is still an apt upcnming Butterlly Elfoct. CD. 
in higher regard than most. ''If LaSalle Grill! I datnd a coupleabout a mile cast of Lhe Notre one. Those Lights We Call Stars, bor­you really want to. you can start waitresses, but I 1wver got toDanrn campus. It developed the rows its title from a Carvnr something hnre. Somnthing oat there."
nickname bncausc of the hasc­setting the stage for memory's play poem. 
good can happnn here t.hat MonPy is no big d1~al for thismnnt's cave-like appearance. -''Morgan Returns East," Ilo has self-published a 'zine. 
doesn't nxist yet. I think I'd trio, though. llappincss comesThe combination of three dol­Now Everybody callfld "a boy & his," sporadical­rather do that than go some­from other things f'or tlwm.
lars for beer and three or four Doug McEachcrn spends most ly since Dect)mlwr I 995. In it he where where thorn's already a "I like my life very much. It'sbands is usually inviting enough of his mornings working as an writes autobiographical poetry lot of cool stuff going on." largely in my own control," saysto attract 75-100 people. assistant managnr of Lula's -a and stories. Tim matnrial is 




I 
I 
I 
I
C I 
Tuesday, April 11, 2000 page 11 ... 
orter" for campus band 
individuals within it. The band's future, as the quote from their album e playing their last show on April 15. 
trate Doug's point. It's not nec­writing music... Ifs nice when the last ones standing essary to travel to Chicago or people like music but it's some­-"Last One Standing," Now listen to the radio to find good thing really special when some­Everybody art or, more to the point. good one thinks it's important." 
''I guess you can say that I'm music. As Vinny says, good Helping yourself is one thing, lhrowing in the towel," Hon things can be started in places but impacting other peoples' says. For thP past fiv(' years. he lib'l South Bend -or anywhere, lives is when music stops being has played an important role in for that matter. True, unadul­merely words and sounds and the musir. scene at Notre Dame. tcratnd, passionate and impor­becomes a source of fmergy and 
..
Be and Doug throw Hive parties tant music can often be found inspiration. Maybe the Butterf1y at his house almost monthly and only on the extremely local Effect will never perform again allow local bands to play along­level. . after April 15, 2000, but maybe side larger, touring bands who But it's hard to find people they have affected someone in stop by from time to time -who really understand the one of those small basement bands like Braid, Sweep the Leg importance of' music. MaybP shows at the Hive or any of the Johnny, Lynx, Kind of Like that's what other Spitting and others. Hon used to has held places be the chief ongine('r at VVVFI. this bane! "You don't ha11e to have a lot of tlrny the campus rock radio station back. Doug capital resources ... ([ you can get played. where Doug and other fans of McEachern A small
a guitar and a four track, a little
indie music made friends. Ron doesn't action, still periodically runs the sound­write songs time and some energy, you can -such as a board for various on-campus to "get create music that can be heard person clmcerts, such as AcoustiCafe. chicks" or playing a
around the planet. It makes you
He also owns 53,000 to $4,000 so his band short set 
of recording equipment that he can play for wonder how far-reaching of songs 
uses to record local bands. free beer things could be. " in a 
Ron, who is usuallv more on the base-humble than necessary, even weekends. ment in 
Ron Garcia
acknowledges bis important role Ile doesn't South 
in the scene. "If we hadn't been wear any bassist Bend, 
throwing shows and having peo­unusual the Butterfly Effect could 
ple play in our basement, let clothing cause a 
alone writing music, I think onstage; huge 
things wouldn't be the same as the band isn't his runway for a reaction many years down the they are now." rock 'n roll fashion statement. road. Tim next Nirvana may 
But steadily, since the three For him, music is "healing well be inspirnd by the Butterfly boys ol' Chisel graduated, things through expression," as he sings Effect. And the world may never have started to dwindle. "There in "Every Day a Sad Song." By even know. were more bands ... at least pulling his heart on stage, on morn bands that played music CD or on paper, he quiets the John 1-/uslon is a senior with similar intent as ours ... it demons inside himself. He American studies major. For seems like that whol(' aspect of allows others to participate in more information about lhe 
JOHN HUSTONfThe Observer my time here is beginning to the healing process, as well. "In Butterfly Effects' last sho1l', 

e-mail John at
a way I'd still be happy playing
f t hows in the Hive -also fade away," Ron said. 
asco and Doug McEachern) play requen s Who will take over and nour-at home, playing up in my bed­huston.5@nd.edu. ent will be silent since Doug is moving to Portland• ish a semblance of a music room by myself with a guitar," The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author 
scene at Notre Dame next year? Doug says, "and I'd enjoy it, 
l)oug. very excited to tour with the and not necessarily those ofThe
Ron doesn't have the answer. have fun playing music and 
Observer.
Vinny agrees. "I lmjoy my life, Butterlly Effect ... The idea of 
But the message is clear -any­it's int1•rcsting." touring with a band and meet­
one can do it; they just need the Not even tbn possibility or a ing new !'aces would be great." 
motivation. Ron cites one of 
potl'ntial rncord contract or tour 
Doug's former bands, emiLy, as would chang1\ Doug's mind is our message getting through? an example. A French record about moving away from South -"The Idiots Dance," Now label somehow heard them 
Bend and abandoning the Everybody 
through the underground
Butterllv Hfoct. he savs. '"It's "You're the old man of the grapevine and released an 
nol wh,~t I really v.·ant to do 
group," Doug says suddenly to emiLv CD. "You don't have to righl now ... I ci>uldn'tbe in a 
Vinny. have ·a lot of capital resources ... 
f'ull-timP touring band ... It's not "I am'? I am, aren't I!" he if you can get a guitar and a worth it to ml' lo deal with that responds. four track, a little time and right now," Vinny. like Doug, has played some energy, you can create "\\'ould vou likn to lw in a !'ull­
in his fair share of bands in the music that can be heard around tinrn luuri;1g band?" I ask Vinny. 
past and currently plays with the planet. lt makes you wonder "Yeah. I'd go on tour and play three other groups besides the hm.::· far-reaching things could for crowds of' 15 nvery night. 
Butterfly Effect: a backing group be. 
sure!" he responds. 
for a gospel r.hoir, a jam-ori1rnt-But in a non-arts oriented Doug bursts into laughl(~r at . cd band called Driftwood and an community like Notre Dame, it's Vinny's sarcasm. "I really want a hard task to pull off. HiveAfrican dance group.
to go though." ho contimws. "I shows have n1c1mtlv bncome In fact, if you ask Vinny ton\ally wish the Butti>.rlly liffor.t 
known as cheap keg partiesname his favorite band, herould havn gonn on morn out­instead of musical events. "It'sresponds with a Who's Who list 
ings. I think il's tlw !Jest band 
frustrating when people aren't
of past and present lol.'.al bands.
that l'w hc1111 in. I would have 
as into the music," says Bon.
Except for Slint. all the bandslik1id to tour around." 
"They're too into the beN to go hr. says he listens to arc prod­All of a suddrn. Doug is silrnt. 
down and get into tho originalucts of Notre Dame ­I!,~ rnalizcs that Vinny wasn't 
music."
Pinchpoint, Chisel, Sweep tho()('ing sarcastic -lw mally Leg Johnny, Cod in Salsa and
wouldn't mind playing !'or 
the door falls shut
Umphrcy's McGfle. It rninforcPs: crowds of 15 p(\oplc, if the -"The Door Falling Shut," his belie!' that music on the local, strl'ngth or tlH\ music made it ~ow Everybodyworthwhil(\. level is often more honest a.nd
1 "Some'vvhere we've learned a 
"I wish I was in a position direct than larger bands' music, lesson all loo well/ that only in whPrP I could foeus on promot-whi<:h is, ol'tlm times, written
1 
others is genius found," Doug 
1 ing and g<'lting shows." Vinny with Orn main goal of making sings sarcastically in "The New , savs. "Sine!' I don'l, thrre's no money. 
Gods of the Underground." "The 
po.int in pouting about it. II 's "/\II rock music, my mom
1 truth is we are generally far, far 1 pretty good. what we are. I'm wo11ld say, .is basically the 
greater than we let oursfllves 
Doug McEachern, guitarist and vocalist for the Butterfly Effect, 
happy with iL" same." Vinny explains. 
admit." 
What would he say? performed for an audience of four in Urbana, Illinois. But for
"There'vc be(!ll times," says There is no better example 
Doug, the size of the crowd doesn't matter. "I'd still be happy
Bon. "wlwr11 I would have been "It's way different to me." than the Butterfly Effect to illus-
playing up In my bedroom by myself with a guitar," Doug said. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 11, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cincinnat's Griffey hits No. 400 in losing effort 
Associated P r~ss 
Ken Griffey Jr. became the youngest player to hit 400 career homers, but the Colorado Rockies beat the Cincinnati Reds 7-5 in their home opener behind two-run homers from Mike Lansing and Todd Helton. 
ThP ne,.v-look Rockies, with jusl 10 players remaining on the roster from last year's open­er. got six strong innings from Holan do Arrojo (1-0). who became the first Hockies starter to win this season. 
Griffey tied the game at 1 in the fourth with an opposite-fielrl homer off Arrojo. It was Criffey's second homer of the season and second in as many days . 

.. 
At :-HJ years, 141 days. Griffey beat the previous mark, set by Jimmie foxx. who was 30 years, 248 days old. Griffey is fifth on the career list among active players. trailing Mark McGwirc (525), Barry Bonds (447), Jose Canseco (431) an<l Cal Ripken Jr. (4031. 
Griffey's historic homer came on the 50th birthday of his father, Ken Griffey Sr. It was the fourth time he has homered on his father's birthday. 
Arrojo left after deflecting a double-play grounder with his pitching hand, a play that ended the sixth. X-rays were negative, leaving him with a bruise on the middle finger of his right hand. He allowed two runs and six hits. 
Colorado returned to Coors Field following a shakeup that saw new GM Dan O'Dowd over­haul the Blake Street Bombers, who hit home runs but failed to make the postseason since 1995. 
Brewers 4, Marlins 3 
Geoff Jenkins homered and Milwaukee's bullpen had anoth­er strong outing as the Brewers beat the Florida Marlins in County Stadium's second final opener. 
A crowd of 53,509 braved game-time temperatures in the 40s and biting winds to wel­come the new season in Milwaukee. The game was the 48th opener at ramshackle County Stadium, the Brewers' only home since 1971. 

Shiny new MillPr Park, rapidly approaching completion 100 feet behind the current field, will open in 2001, a year behind schedule following a crane acci­dent last July 14 that killed three iron workers. 
Jenkins' solo homer put Milwaukee ahead in the second, and the Brewers then capital­ized on wildness by Vladimir Nunez (0-1) in tho third. 
The right-hander loaded the bases by walking Henry Blanco, Marquis Grissom and Mark Loretta, and Jeromy Burnitz hit a two-run single under first baseman Kevin Millar's glove. Jenkins' sacrifice fly scored Loretta. 
Cubs 4, Braves 3 
Forget Tokyo, St. Louis and Cincinnati and a long tiring trip to start the season. The Chicago Cubs opened the home portion of tht1ir season with a dramatic win. 
Shane Andrews hil a game­tying three-run homer off Kerry Ligtenberg in the ninth inning and pinch-hitter Jeff Reed sin­gled in Damon Buford with the game-winner as the Cubs stunned the Atlanta Braves in their frosty Wrigley Field o.pen­er. 
Andrews, whose throwing error allowed the tying run tu score in Sunday's 8-7, 11-inning loss to Cincinnati, drove a 1-2 pitch from Ligtenberg into the left-field bleachers for his third homer of the season. 
Ligtenberg (0-1), the Braves' closer until John Rocker's sus­pension is over April 17, then allowed a single to Buford and was replaced by Luis Rivera. 
Joe Girardi sacrificed Buford to second and Reed slapped a single down the left-field line, sending the Cubs out of their dugout to celebrate. 
Mark Guthrie (1-1) who pitched the top of the ninth, got the victory in Don Baylor's debut as Cubs manager at Wrigley. 
Royals 6, Twins 5 
Johnny Damon homered lead­ing off the ninth inning, and the Kansas City Royals beat the Minnesota Twins after wasting a two-run lead in the top half. 
Jacque Jones tied it at 5 with a two-run homer off Ricky Bottalico (1-0), who relieved Dan Reichert starting the ninth. Corey Koskie was on base after hitting the 10th double of the game. 
Damon's home run off LaTroy Hawkins (0-1) was his first of the season. 
Jose Rosado allowed three runs and five hits in six innings, and Reichert struck out four in the next two innings. Minnesota starter Sean Bergman gave up four runs and 11 hits in 5 1-3 innings 
Damon doubled leading off the game and scored one out later on Carlos Beltran's infield out. 
Phillies 9, Mets 7 

Mike Lieherthal hit a tiebreaking two-run homer in the fifth inning as the Philadelphia Phillies overcame a four-run deficit and beat the New York Mets in their home opener. 

With white towels swirling in Veterans Stadium, the Phillies got another terrible outing from starter Paul Byrd. 
The bigger news came from Clearwater, Fla., where ace Curt Schilling struck out nine in four scoreless innings of a rehab assignment. 
That was far better than both starters fared in this game. 
Byrd and Mets starter Bobby Jones both were chased in the fifth inning. 
Schilling continued his impressive comeback from shoulder surgery, allowing two hits and no walks in a Class-A game. 
He wants to come back now, but is scheduled for a return to the mound in late April or early May. 
Diamondbacks 8, Padres 4 
The San Diego Padres' home opener turned into an Arizona Diamondbacks' homerfest. 
Erubiel Durazo hit two home runs, including a three-run shot, and Jay Bell, Steve Finley and Kelly Stinnett also connect­ed to match the club record of five as the Diamondbacks spoiled San Diego's home debut with a win. 
Todd Stottlemyre {2-0) was hit on the right knee by Ryan Klesko's line drive in the first but stayed in the game, holding the Padres to three runs and seven hits in six innings. 
He also made -a nice defensive play in the sixth, catching Eric Owens' liner and doubling Ryan Klesko at first. 
Durazo had just two singles in 17 at-bats and no RBIs coming in. He went 3-for-4 with a walk, a career-high 4 RBIs and had his second two-homer game. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FULL COLOR  TEACHER WANTED: ND/SMC  LARGE 6 BEDROOM HOUSE. 2  Laura,  
NOTICES  Copying  Printing  Scanning  WANTED  families need teacher for next year to instruct children in home setting. Part-time position. SalaryNacation  FULL BATHS & BASEMENT. UTIL­ITIES INC. $400/ROOM. 247-9808.  you may have won tonight, but it's not over. i'II get the last laugh  
LaFortune Student Center  L'ARCHE HARBOR HOUSE in  negotiable.Call 258-9707.  AGK,  
Store Hours Mon-Thurs: 7:30 a.m.-Mid Fri: 7:30 a,m.-7:00 p.m. Sat Noon-6:00 p.m.  ,HE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Call 631-COPY  Jacksonville Florida invites you to a year of service creating community with persons who are mentally dis­abled Responsibilities include:  FOR RENT  FOR SALE Like new, Man's 14K Yellow Gold 5  thank you tor eating all my good colored runts. you left me with all the limes and bananas. yuck. way to go!  
....  Sun: Noon-Mid Free Pick-Up & Delivery' Call 631-COPY We're open late so your order will be done on time!  Fax it fast' Fax it fast! Sending & Receiving  Fax it fast'  assist in creating a home: develop relationships with members; and assist in personal care and commu­nity living. Requirements include a desire to live with, learn from, and  2 bedroom. 2 bath apartment for lease during summer session. Close to campus, washer/dryer. Call Erin 4-4238 if interested.  Diamond Wedding Band. Appraised $900, Best offer. 289-8509,  you owe me. hope you had fun with your 7 page paper  
THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  relate with mentally disabled adults. Benefits include stipened, room, board, and heal! insurance and for- APARTMENT FOR SUMMER SUBLEASE! Collego Park -2 bedrooms, fur- PERSONAL  HeyK the moon is calling, have you answered???  
EXTENDED store hours during  Our Fax# (219) 631-3291  mation in the spirituality and philos­ophy of LOArche. To apply, contact  nished. Call 243-8194.  To Strez: Blah La La La La is Exhausting  hey erin,  
finals week  Dottie Klein, LOArche, .700  whats up girl? how are things  
Mon-Fri· 7:30 a.m.-Mid Sat & Sun: 10:00 a.m -M,d  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  Arlington Rd., Jacksonville, FL 32211: (904) 744-4435.Seeking responsible carefiver for 2 children  B&B 287-4545  To Anne: Let's get ready for the M-CATS and the gek that is waiting.  going? i gotta get outta this place  
High-Speed Copying  Mon. and/or Tues, 7:30 -5:30.  NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND.  
Color Copying  Transpo & ref. necessary.  GOOD AREA.  We want to drink pepsi naked'!!  not too much longer  
Need help with a project?  Resumes  
Business Cards  631-051  277-3097  Private Wheeler succinate it for  nothing but limes and bananas to  
Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING  Fax Service  dropping out of bio-chem.  get me through the night  
seivices are available at THE COPY SHOP  Desktop Publishing & a whole lot more!  Caregiver needed 2000-01 acade­mic year, Tues-Thurs, 7:45-5:45 for  RENTAL HOUSES FOR 4-6 STU­DENTS WITH LARGE ROOMS.  B-Two  what a shame  
LaFortune Student Center  2 young children. 631-7765.  W&D.  and  
Call 631-COPY  Prompt Pick-up & Delivery Call 631-COPY  Transpo & ref. necessary  291-2209 DAVE  watch out for the Teddy Bears with no pants!'  i'm done  

Tuesday, April 11, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NBA 
Iverson scores 33, leads Sixers to 96-80 victory 
Associated Press 
Allen Ivcrson's 33 points led the Philadelphia 76~rs to a 96­80 victory over Miami, ending the Ileat's s1wcn-gamc winning streak. 
Eric Snow added t 2 points and 10 assists for Philadephia. which stayed in fourth place in Urn Eastern Confernncc stand­ings, one game ahead of Charlott«~. 
Tim No. 4 seed has home­court advantage against No. 5 in the first round of the playoffs. 
Jt was a humbling defeat for Miami, which had pulled out to a three-game lead in the Atlantic Division by beating New York in overtime Sunday on Tim Ilardaway's 25-footer at tlw buzwr. 
Philadelphia stumbled during tlrn first quarter, falling behind 22-18. Rut the hosts outscored Miami by 21 over the next two periods and coasted to the win. 
Iverson, playing with a broken ldt toe, led his team back with 18 first-half points, including a l'ast-break layup off an assist from Toni Kukoc with 9:08 left in Urn second quarter that madt~ it 2<J-2(1 for Philadelphia, which n1wer trailed again. 
The 76ers opened the second hair with an 11-2 run, capped by a 16-foot jumper by Iverson and a pair of free throws from Theo Ratliff, to give the Sixers a 54-39 lead with 9:09 left. 
Raptors 112, Cavaliers 103 
Vince Carter's first career triple-double helped the 
Toronto Raptors inch closer to their first playoff berth with a victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
Carter went 13-of-19 from the field and scornd 31 points, had 11 rebounds and added a career-high 10 assists. 
Toronto {43-34) movAd within one Vlin or one Milwaukee loss of clinching a postseason spot. The Bucks hosted Orlando on Monday. 
Tracy McGrady had 27 points, a career-high nine assists and six blocks as the Raptors ended a four-game homA losing streak by beating Cleveland for the fifth straight time. 
Antonio Davis had 14 poi.nts and four blocks, while Charles Oakley added 10 rebounds. 
Sha.wn Kemp had 22 points for Cleveland, Bob Sura had 19, and Lamond Murray 16. 
Celtics 99, Hawks 94 
Antoine Walker scored 26 of his 34 points in the second half. including a 3-pointcr with 25 seconds left to cap a game-end­ing 11-0 Roston rally, as the Celtics beat the Atlanta Hawks. 
The win snapped Boston's 10 game-losing skid. its longest since 1997. The Celtics' last vic­tory was March 18 against Dallas. 
Kenny Anderson was the only other Boston player in double figures, with 24 points. 
Jim Jackson paced the Hawks, losers of seven in a row, with 27 points and 10 rebounds. Atlanta hasn't won on the road since Feb. 25 at Seattle, a 12­game drought. 
Jackson's basket with 3:02 left gave the Hawks a 94-88 lead, but Atlanta didn't score again. 
Paul Pierce's three-point play cut it to 94-91 before !\nderson 's twisting layup sliced it to one with 1:47 left. 
Hornets 107, Wizards 105 
Elden Campbell's 18-foot turnaround jumper over Juwan Howard as time expired capped a wild finish and lifted the Charlotte Hornets over the Washington Wizards. 
Eddie Jones scored 26 points and David Wesley had 21 for the Hornets, who swept the three-game season series from the Wizards. Charlotte has won two straight games and nine of 11. 
Mitch Hichmond had 21 points and reserve Richard Hamilton 19 for the Wizards, who had won 8 of their last 11. 
The game was tied at 103 when Hamilton missed a pair of free throws with 59.6 seconds left. 
CharlottP missed two shots on the ensuing possession, but gained two clock resets before Anthony Mason hit a to-footer with 2.8 seconds left for a 105­103 lead. 
Mason finished with 19 points, nine rebounds and nine assists. 
Charlotte's Derrick Coleman, who had 16 points and 16 rebounds, fouled Washington's Mitch Richmond on the ensuing in-bounds play and Richmond hit both free throws, tying the game at 105 and setting up CampbAll's game-winner. 
Timberwolves 102, 
Pistons 100 
The Minnesota Timberwolves lost their cool, their coach and their cushy lead, but recovered to defeat the Detroit Pistons on Kevin Garnett's buzzer-beater. 
Garnett, who scored 25 points, sank a 10-foot jumper at the horn, then ran around the court with his arms out like a little kid prntending he was an airplane. . 
Terrell Brandon added 16 points for Minnesota, which tied its franchise single-season record with its 26th victory at Target Center. 
Grant Hill scored 36 points and was 17-of-18 from the foul line, including the go-ahead free throws after Flip Saunders was ejected in the third quarter for clashing with the officiating crew. 
Hill. playing on a tender left ankle, dunked with 16 seconds left to pull the Pistons to 99-98. After Wally Szczerbiak hit one of two free throws a second later, Hill drove the lane to tie it at 100 with six seconds left. 
The Wolves called timeout at 

2.4 seconds, and Sam Mitchell inbounded the ball to Garnett, who was closely guarded by three players as he stepped into the lane and let loose a 10-foot floater that fluttered the net at the horn. 
Knicks 83, Pacers 81 
Patrick Ewing made a turn­around jumper with two sec­onds left after apparently redi­recting Larry Johnson's 3-point­er into the basket, leading the New York Knicks to a victory over the Indiana Pacers. 
On a night with all the ten­sion, drama and excitement of a playoff game, Ewing scored nine of the Knicks' final 12 points and appeared to have a hand -or at least a couple of his fingers -in the other three. 
Johnson was credited with a 3-pointer with 21.7 seconds left, although replays appeared to show Ewing getting a hand on the ball and directing it into the basket as it was heading for the rim_ The Pacers argued franti­cally but to no avail. 
Heggie Miller tied the game at 81-81 on two foul shots with 
15.7 seconds left. 
The Knicks then got the ball to Ewing in the low post, and he sank one of his trademark fade­a way shots from the baseline over the outstretched arm of Dale Davis. 
Bucks 104, Magic 87 
Ray Allen couldn't be guard­ed, Sam Cassell couldn't be silenced and the Milwaukee Bucks finally looked like a play­off team. 
Allen scored 33 points, and Cassell added 18 points and eight assists as the energized Bucks beat the Magic, moving Milwaukee one game behind Orlando for the Eastern Conference's final postseason berth. 
The ninth-place Bucks and eighth-place Magic both have five games left. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 11, 2000 
DAVIS CUP 

McEnroe adjusting to captain role for Davis Cup 
motivate sometimes when
.. Associated Press 
you'rP. around them all the time, and particularly whP.n
Slowly, and with much you're not around them that

squ.irming. clapping, prodding oftP.n," he said. "It was a situa­and grimacing, John McEnroe tion where certainlv 1. feel like Iis getting the hang of being U.S. 

could have done helter." 
Davis Cup captain. 

But McEnroe rates highly
"To sit there and nol be run­

with Agassi for his directning around, I'm not used to 
approach.
that," McEnroe said Sunday 

"Under normal circum­
after the Americans eked out a 

stances, you're feeling like,
:1-2 victory 

'I've done this 
over the 

"John !McEnroe] will my whole li~e
C z e c h 

j. ... so I don t
d t
Republic to 

neuer e our you rom want to hear 
advance to 

you.r path. He'll only say any th i n g, • " 
tlrn semifinals 

things that keep you Agassi said.
against Spain d ,, "But it c..an bein July. fi

ocuse · an asset .... 
'Tm accus­John will

tomed to run­

Andre Agassi never detour
ning around. 

you from your
tennis player
getting some 

path. He'll only 
of the nerves 

say things thatout,'' he said. 
keep you focused on the thingsBis squad rallied from a 2-1 that particular person needs."
deficit for the second straight And he isn't afraid to rip hisround. In McEnroe's debut as players.

captain, the Americans faced After Saturday's doubles loss

elimination in Zimbabwe by Alex O'Brien and Jared

before winning both singles 

Palmer left the Americans trail­matches on the final day. 
ing 2-1, McEnroe said his team"These have been two tough was "acting like spoiled kids." 
ties," he said. "The scary thing 

He criticized his players'
is it's going to be tougher, if 

work ethic, and singled out
anything." 

Sampras for not hustling in theMcEnroe's job confines him loss to Jiri Novak on Friday.
to a courtside seat where he 

Early in Sunday's fifth andponders ways to motivate play­decisive match against Slava ers like Andre Agassi and Pete Dosedel, Sampras strained his
Sampras, who aren't used to left thigh on a running fore­

having anyone tell them how to hand.

play tennis. 

He limped back to his chair
After Sampras was dealt a on the changeover, where a

humiliating straight-set defeat trainer massaged his leg. 

by Jiri Novak in Friday's open­McEnroe urged him to "sucking singles, McEnroe was at a it up for 45 minutes so we canloss at what to say to a player get out of here."

who was once his opponent and "How many times did you tell

doubles partner. 

me that?" Sampras said after­"It's not easy to know how to 
Recycle The Observer. 
.. 
WantA Challenge? 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Start your career off on the right foot by enrolling in the Air Force Officer Training School. There you will become a commissioned officer in just 12 weeks. From the start you'll enjoy great pay, complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation each year, 
plus the opportunity to travel and 
AlMHIGH  see the world. To discover how high  
1Al• . -K­-IGRCE  a career in the Air Force can take you, call 1-800-423-USA~ or visit  
www.airforce.com  our website at www.airforce.com  

Saint Mary's College presents Tennesee Williams' play 

Thursday-Saturday, April 13 -15, 2000 
at 8p,m.  S1l01 Afary'r Coll,J•()  
.Sunday, April 16 at 2:30 p.m.  MO AU~filfER,  
,Little Theatre  FOR THE ARTS Nor11E 0•1i1E, 1N  

For ticket information contact 284 4626
the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 
ward. "Just a couple limes," a smil­ing McEnroe replied. 
The two former lop-ranked players seemingly found a com­fort level with each other that hadn't previously existed. Sampras was a late withdrawal from the first round in Zimbabwe be1.:ausc or a hip injury, causing McEnrofl to question Sampras' commitment to Davis Cup. 
They patched things up after what Sampras described as a few "heart to heart" talks. 
Czech captain Jan Kuka! pre­dicts McEnroe will bll the best 
U.S. captain ever. But, for now. he believes l\1cEnroe lacks experience and is too emotion­ally involved in the points. 
"You have to relax in between points. This is what he cannot do now," Kuka! said. 
Told of Kukal's comments, McEnroe couldn't resist a humorous jab at his white­haired, portly counterpart. 
"Tell him thanks for the advice. I would recommend he work out a little harder," he said. 
Like Kuka!. Agassi senses McEnroe's emotional frustra­tion at not being able to dictate the outcome the way he used to 
as  a player on  live Davis Cup Pete Sampras and the American team rallied from 2-1 
atitle teams. defecit to defeat Zimbabwe this weekend.  
ft ft  LOOKING FORA  ft ft  
ft ft  BIG MOVE THIS  ft ft  
ft ft  FALL???  ft ft  
ft ft  SEE WHAT  ft ft  
ft ft  CAMPUS VIEW  ft ft  
ft ft  IS ALL ABOUT  ft ft  
ft ft ft  272-1441  ft ft ft  
ft ft  OR STOP BY:  ft ft  
ft  1801 IRISH WAY  ft  
ft  ft  
ft  ONLY ASHORT WALK FROM CAMPUS!!  ft  
ft  ft  

ftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftftft 

Tuesday, April I I, 2000 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
League plans to open play in 2001 
Associated Press 
;\ women's profossional soc­cPr lnaguc to open in April 200 I plans to play in eight ritios. hoping to capitalize on tlin strt>ngth nl' last summer's World Cup. 
Tlw Women's United Soccm· /\ssociatinn said todav it will lrnvP t0ams in Atlanta: Boston, f\nw York. l1 hiladclphia, Orlando-Tampa. San Diego, San Francisco and Washington. 
ListPd as alternates were Chicago, Columbus, Detroit, Los AngPles. Miami, Portland, Haleigh-Durham and St. Louis. J\lso under consideration are Milwa ukcc. Denver and llouston. 
In addition, the league agreed to a four-year cable TV contract with Time Warner Inc. that calls for a total nf' 22 ganws a year to be televised by Pitlwr TNT or CNN/SI. 
The lcaguP wants to be sanc­tioned by U.S. Socrnr. although Major Lnagu<i Soccor also has expressed int11rest in establish­ing a women's league. 
WUSA organ"iznrs said they have letters of' intent from more than 100 domestic and internati.onal play,~rs, including all members of the 1999 U.S. World Cup championship tMm. 
"We want tlw focus entirely on the women's game," said .Julie Foudy. co-captain of the 1999 U.S. team. "We all know how difficult it is to get a league off the ground. 
"With all the resources these companies have and all the promotion you can have, we !'eel you nend that dirncted focus and energy that is solely behind the women's game. We are totally committed to play­ing for just the WUSA and hop­ing that is the league that gets sanctioned." · 
The eight initial markets are conditional. pending comple­tion of stadium contracts by Nov. l. The eight alternate cities might be added in the first year or later through expansion. · 
Each of the initial eight mar­kets required a $5 million investment. Much of the finan­cial hacking comes from media groups. 
Two teams, New York and Tampa-Orlando, were awarded to Time Warner Cable. Atlanta went to Cox Enterprises and 
San  Diego  to  Cox  
Communications.  
Amos  Hostetter. former  

chairman and CEO of Continental Cablevision, is involved with two clubs. He has full ownership of the Boston learn and a half stake with John Hendricks in San Francisco. Comcast Corporation will operate the Philadelphia franchise and has a half-share with Hendricks in Washington. 
The Observer . SPORTS 
Softball 
continued from page 20 
In game two action, the Trish gralJbed a 5-1 win over the Wildcats. Notre Dame took the lead in the second with three runs before Alkire doubled to center with two outs to send in two more Irish runs. 
Villanova fought back in the fifth as it scored for the first time in the past five games against the Irish. 
Pitcher Michelle Moshe] moved to 8-4 while striking out nine and allowing just three hits. 
"I was pleased with our players playing real hard. Our pitching staff did a great job and we hit the hall hard all day," Miller said. 
The Irish were coming off a 6-1 win over Western Michigan on Thursday. 
With a scoreless game through 4 l/2 innings, the Broncos scored their lone run on an inside the park homerun. The Irish struck back in the fifth with Alkire, Loman, Klayman and Lizzy Lemire combining to drive in four runs to give Notre Dame the lead. Loman tripled in the sixth to drive in two more runs and secure the Irish wins. 
Sharron earned the win with seven strikeouts while Klayman had a perfect Irish offense with 4-for-4 at the plate. 
The Irish play again Wednesday as they host Butler in a doubleheader starling at 4 p.m. and on Thursday in a doubleheader against DePaul at 3 p.m. 

page 15 

" 

Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
271-0300 
Call today and 11 am-2am sun-thurs mention this ad!! 11am-Jam fri-sat 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 11, 2000 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Iowa State's Fizer headed to draft 
Associated Press 
Marcus Fizer decidnd hn could do more for his family as a rookie in the NBA than as a senior at Iowa State. 
rizer. an 
A I I 
America who led t h C Cyclones to their best season e v e r . announced Monday he would skip his final cnllPge snason and make himself eligible for the 
NBA draft. 
"I really think this is the time I can I.lo all the things I've always wanted to do for my family," said Fizer, who is engaged and has two children. 
"I have a lwart where (';Verv­one in my family is withiu it. It's going to be a comfortablP feeling to know that I will have a chance to help all of them." 
His announcement was no surprise. 
Fizer's NBA stock rose throughout the season as he followed one big game with another in leading Iowa State to the Big 12 regular season and tournament champi­onships. The 6-foot-8, 265­pound forward is projected to be one of the top picks in the June 28 draft. 
"The timing's right." Iowa State coach Larry Eustachy said. "He's certainly a lottery 
pick." . . Fizer has not hired an agent and said he was leaving open the possibility of returning to Iowa State next s0ason if he felt that would improve his position in the draft. Eustachy was not counting on that happening. "lle's not coming back," Eustachy saiu. "Ifs just hard for him to tell everybody this is it." Fizer averaged 22.8 points and 7. 7 rebounds and shot 58 prrcent from the field as Iowa State set a school record for victories in finishing 32-5. The 


Do you have a burning question about the environment? Are you interested in learning more about environmental change? 
Come to a panel discussion: 
"Environmental Change ­Local to Global" 
When: Wednesday, April 12 at 7:00 p.m. Where: Reeker's 
Panelists will include: Scott Bridgham Department of Biological Sciences Dennis Doordan Department of Architecture Charles Kulpa Moderator, 
Department of Biological Sciences David Lodge Department of Biological Sciences Robert Wolfe -J.F. New and Associates, 
Environmental Consulting Firm 
Come discuss issues such as loss of wetlands and forest, urban sprawl, invasive species, implications of land use change for carbon and nitrogen cycles, global warming, or any other issue you have in mind. 
Cyclones' season ended with a 75-64 loss to eventual national champion Michigan State in the Midwest Regional final. 
Eustachy said it became clear as the season progressed 
that Fizer was n~ady for the 
NBA. When thP two met to 
discuss Fizer's options for 
next season, Eustacl1y said Im 
encouraged his star to turn 
pro. 

"Heally at the beginning of 
the year I thought Marrus 
would be back." Eustachy 
sairl. "I didn't think he'd ma,ke 
so much progress. But hn 
worked so hard and becamri 
such a force. 

"I thought the turning point in his sr11tson was when he struggled against Orake and we really, really challengnd him. Then he found out he could play right with Kenyon Martin i11 th,~ Cincinnati game. I think he just kept making progress from then on out." 
Fizer scored 2h points on 12-of-19 shooting in a 75-60 loss to Cincinnati on Nov. 28 in the championship game of the Big Island Invitational. Martin, the national player of the year, scored 22 points in that game and was the only player to receive morn votes for the All­Anrnrica team. 
"Se\fishlv, we'd love to have him back,1' Eustachy said. ''I'd look like a much better coach. But it's not the right thing to do. The right thing for him to do is move on. I'm behind him all the way." 
Fizer said he was grateful for Eustachy's support. The two shook hands and embraced as thev traded places on the p~dium at Monday's news conference. 
"I really didn't know what to Pxpect when l met with him when he and I had our talks," Fizer said. "When he told me he was encouraging me to go for the draft, that he thinks the time is now, it really touch!1d my h1\art to see this guy is putting me beforn his own interests anll his needs." 
Fizer's guardians, Hobert and Sheila Frazier, attendr!d the news conference, along with his fiancen, t\nysha Ticer, 
CLUB SPORTS 

Miami claims water polo title 
Spedal to The Observer 

Tho Miami of Ohio Redhawks redaimed their Mi<lwest Conference Championship in women's water polo at Holt's Aquatics Centnr this weekend, but not with as much ease as expected. 
The anticipated match-up bntwecn dcfonding champion Notre Damu an<l pernnnial power Miami was much closer than prcdicled. l\1iami had won thn two regular S<'ason contests handily and was nxpl'!'tBd lo come out on top. Tim two t1rnrns dominatmt Party in t.our­nam en t action, as tho Irish cruised by Wnstnrn Michigan, l :l-3. and tlrnn post<•d an 8-5 wiu against 13owling (;rn,m. In ttrn semifinals, tho Irish stopped Miami B 13-:-3, setting tlrn stag1> for tho dimartic fin­ish. 
Miami canw out strong, and steadily built ,t 9-3 lt!acl mid­way into Urn third quarter. Lauren Kuzniar thnn ti~d a spir­ited Irish comeback and Jen Bornnl'k's latn goal knottod the score at 12, fordug overtime. The lri.sh spirit was not quito enough to take the win. howev­er. as Miami scored twice to prevail 14-12. The club will now travel to Ann Arlrnr for next week's Midwnst Division Championships. Thn winnm-at Michigan will qualify for Lim NC:AAs. 
Ultimate 

Tim Irish nwn's ultimate learn continues lo improve against top national competi­tion, as was evident i11 this W(';ek's Great Lahs Open. In the opening round, Notrn Dame beat Texas, 13-4, as Mike Shiel neutralized tlrn Longhorn attack with tight man dofcnsn. The Irish played an oppressive zorrn dPl'm1se, made possible by Cory Padcsky's trapping mark, which forced many turnovers throughout thn tournament. Paul Meier's defense and Steve llempkens midfif'id play led to wins i11 llrn next two rounds over Olrnrlin, 13-12, and Northwestern, U-8. The Irish then stumhlnd against l\o. 11 Michigan 12-8, biif'ore rebound­ing with victory over Indiana 15-4. Despite Paul Sheperd 's strong of'fonsive performance, the Irish dropped the semifinal gamn lo No. 4 Wisconsin, 15­
11. 
Men's volleyball 

Compoting in the national 
championships. the mnn's vol­l11yball team posted a rerord of 2-5 for the wrwknnd. In open­ing round action, Penn narrow­ly defeated Notrn Dame. I(1-25, 35-33, 18-16. Notrn Dame then fell to Cal State-Sacranwnto 25­14, 25-13. After dropping anotlrnr tight three ganrn con­test to Tennessee, 25-18, 20­
25. Hi-14, tlrn Irish ddeatecl tho Western Michigan Broncos 25-23, 25-19. t\ third match that could have gorw either way saw Notre Dame lose yet another closn match to Colorado State 25-20, 17-25, I5-12. The notters closed tho tournament by splitting their last two contests, heating Army before succumbing to Wisconsin. 
Tuesday, April 11. 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
TRACK AND FIELD 
DeBartolo sets throwing record 
about the conditions. but rm By BRIAN BURKE from the Chicago area and 
Sports Writer 
all our high schoo] meets are likfl this. Now that wp,'vc With temperatures linger­been traveling to California 
ing around freezing, the for meets, they [the competi­conditions were poor tors I are spoiled."enough at the Miami DcBartolo was not the only Invitational to send the thrower who worked well in Notre Dame runners and the winterv conditions. 
jumpers home without com­Amanda Honath also peting. It raiued. It snowed. earned a first place finish as Bttl it did she tied for 
not stop the top 
I) o r n "fl was 32 degrees. 11te mark in the De8artolo shot put
tough part was waiting
from once with a
around when it was cold
again set­throw of 41­
ting a and rainy. Everyone was 11 1/4, 
school complaining about the Meanwhile record. ttrn men had
conditions. " 

DcBartolo their share placed first of top per­in th<' Dore DeBartolo formances. women's M a t t
hammer thrower

hammnr Thompson throw on and Derck Saturday, Dyer fin­breaking thA Notre Dame isht>d first and second in the 
record for the third time 
discus with throws of 165-6 with a distance of 182 feet and 161-4 respectively. Dyer 10 inches, 11 inches more won the shot put with a dis­than her previous record. t an c e of 50-1 3/4 while 
The throw also surpassed Thompson followed him in the mefit record by almost second. throwing 46-6. 14 feet and set a new best Thompson also won the for the track. 
hammer with a throw of "It was about 32 degrees. 1/4-1.
The tough part was waiting The Irish head to around when it was cold California next week for an and rainy." DeBartolo said. important meet at the Mt. 
"Everyone was complaining SAC relays. 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­
Air Force ROTC Cadets 

Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities. Whether you·re about to start college or have already begun. ifs time to make your decision. now. 
\taking Lc.idcrs for the-Air Force-and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck -631-4676, or K1ubeck.1@nd.edu 

Bookstore Results for ­Monday APril 1o. 2000 
Four Chumps and a National Champ def. Who Shot the Couch? (21-11) 
Tall Where It Counts def. The Blue Ballers (21-9) 
Venerable Predators def The Peruvian Mulleteers (21-4) 
The Mushroom Tip-ins def. The Hookers Four Crackers and a Little Dip def. www.thehun.net (21-9) Hairspray Indians def. Fumblers (21-17) 
Wall to Wall and Tree Top Tall def. Return of Peril (21-13) Nothing But Nets def. House on South Eddy (21-18) 
Team Boat Club def. 5 Alkies Who Got Game (21-11) 
Team 168 def Backdoor Boys (21-13) 
The Bookhouse Boys def The Matrix (21-10) 
The Shining def. Up...Up...Up (21-18) 
Sexually Frustrated 11... def, The Fishermen (21-6) Stop the Bus and Let My Roommate, Jack, Off def. 1-900-TU-MADRE (21-11) Redneck Mooses def 7 Snakes (21-15) 
Team 296 def. Grumpy Old Men (21-11) Pistol Packin' Mam mas def. Pangborn Underground (21-11) Sorry If We Shoot It All Over You, But ... def. Sporty Spices (21-2) Next Time Bring Your Sister, You Hump def. Porter's Five Forces (21-19) 
The Underground def. Buck Futter (21-13) 
KRIS FORCIER/ The Observer 

Porter's Five Forces led 11-8 at hie-teamed lay up to secure the the half, but clutch plays by Bien preliminary-round win. 
Bookstore 
and Meirose gave Next Time Tournament action continues bring Your Sister, You Hump the today as Irish men's head bas­
continued from page 20 
edge when it counted. Meirose ketball coach Matt Doherty suits each other, as neither team came up with a key stuff and a up for the 29th-ranked team could come up with a substantial steal when his team led 20-18 Shocker at 6: 15 p.m. on the 
lead in the hour-long contest. and Bien came up with a dou-McGlinn courts. 
INTERESTED IN SCI ENCE, TECHNOLOGY, RND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 
Moral issues surrounding technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, enuironmental management, computerization, engineering, and architectural design challenge us euery day. 
To e>tplore these issues in depth inuestigate the unique Notre Dame STU Program. This is a minor requiring 15 hours that can be taken by students in any college. Within the STU Program you may deuelop concentrations in specific tracks emphasizing STU interactions with Business; Enuironmental Studies; Preprofes­sional Studies; Philosophy and Theology; Computer and Physical Sciences; and Gouernment and Public Policy. 
Course offerings for Spring 2000 may be reuiewed by informa­tion obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or uisit our website at http://www.nd.edu/~stu. Call 631-5015 for a personal appoint­ment. 

NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL 
Wed. April 12 vs. Butler 4:00 pm
THIS WEEK Today us. Purdue 6110pm 
Women's Tennis
Wed. Hpril 12us. Bowling Green 5110pm 
Today! vs. Indiana 4:00pm
Tius. flpril 13us. Toledo Sfflpm 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 11, 2000 
SOFTBALL 

Belles sweep weekend double dip with Hornets 
By KAREN SCHAFF 
Sports W ricer 
The Saint Marv's softball team moved up t':.vo spots in the MIM standings after win­ning both games against Kalamazoo College in its Game 1 double head­
Saini Mary's 10 
er Sunday. The Belles. Kalamazoo 2 who were in 
Game 2
second to 
Saint Mary's 5
last place coming into Kalamazoo 1 this wP-ek­cnd's match, are now in fifth place and look• ing to move up. 
After its lwo solid wins on Sunday. Saint Mary's increased their confrrcnce record to 3-3. The team hopes to move into the top four and earn a spot in the \1IM Championship. 
The Belles won the first game 10-2 and the second 5-1. ThP team was happy with its over­all performance on Suuday. 
Head coach Joe Speybroeck had a light practice on Friday. Because of miscommunication the Belles did not practice on Saturday. Despite the lapse in training Saint Mary's managed to keep its focus and take both games on Sunday. 
"There were no spectacular plays." senior Elise Hall said, "but the team played well all around." 

All season Speybroeck has been concerned about his team"s hitting. first game and eight in the sec­pticher Anne Senger said. After last week's error laden runs during the course of both 
"l would really like to have a ond. "We've just been hilting so well games, the Belles were happy games. team that hits consistently well, The Belles had a big offen­overall." to see their defense improving. For their next game at Albion instead of off-and-on," he said. sive rally in the fourth inning in Saint Mary's defense, led by "The defense is definitely College on Tuesday. 
The Belles came out in supe­the first game against Senger and sophomore pitcher there and our offense is getting Speybroeck hopes to continue rior form on Sunday. In a vast Kalamazoo. Kristin Martin, was just as thore," Senger said. the Belles continue their hitting improvement on their recent "We had a big inning where strong as offense. The defense Both pitchers threw very streak and continue to consis­games, they had 11 hits in the we scored a lot of runs," junior kept their errors to minimum. strongly, giving up only three tently reach base. 

N.OTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
:yz:&~t~ 
TIMBERLAKE WERTENBAKER 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Thurs., April 13, 7:30 p.m. 
Fri., April 14. 7:30 p.m. 
Sat., April 15; 7:30 p.m. 
Sun., A"pril 16, 2:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 Seniors $8 
Ail Students $6 
Tickets are available al 
Lafortune S)udent Cfl[lter Ticket Office MasterCRrd"and Visa . rders call 631·8128 

Oetb-e,,11f Tk fl:d~t Pizza.I 
[3@a11l Q[u© ~ . ©~~ lJ(!]@~cfla1wHH 
Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 
5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 
the price of your
the price of your 2 large 1 
large 1 topping topping pizzas
pizza 

is the time you call.
is the time you call. 
* Plus tax
* Plus tax i --LunchSpecial ---7 
1 Small 1 Topping I ND store 12 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ 1L ______..:., ______.J1 North Village a
271.-1177 271-PAPA 

l 
I 
Tuesday, April 11, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 19 TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
1"1-11:;_'( ~t:~.;:c, .A M,1:,.e.::,­D\IS "tM

Cl-l1f' Ffi?o~ MY lii:'.t.O 1\.\r>."T 1-\[\I) l::,£EN Gt>.V':.li./6 MY <;1<.l(N£.<;S 
Fox TROT 
I'LL LET YOU Tl-!IS RED CLASHES WITH THE LAST TIME WE 
I CAN'T REMEMBER 
CHOOSE­MY SWEATER, So I'LL PLAYEO CHESS 
RED oR BLACk'? TAk'E 8LA.CI<. 
TOGETHER, PA1GE. 
f 
G, 

"Tt\lS MMJ RIOV.S.! T WI\S Tl-IE 
... 
BILL AMEND 

SUDDENL 'I' 1CK. Do THESE 
THE BoARDS ALL 

MEMOlilES HA.VE To RUSH BACK. COME IN PLAID?
I 
' 
~I 

Room picks: A Tale of Two Genders. 
bearn.1@nd.. edu 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 25 Rouse 58 Night before 
TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 2000 1 Menachem's 29 Singer Cara 59 Golden award CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS greater interest in children may lead 1978 30 Hoops player 60 Arm bones DAY: Joel Grey, Ethel Kennedy, Peter you back to school. Pick up courses co-Nobelist 31 Say confidently 61 Court divider Riegert, Louise Lasser, John Shef­that will enable you to work with 
youngsters. You should look intofield, Michele Scarabelli
6 "Get out!" 32"_ Boot" 62 Rudder's place 
starting your own day care center.
Happy Birthday: Your thoughts

11 de 
35 California city 63 Suspicious and ideas must be followed by 0000 
Triomphe LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): There
by Joshua Tree actions. Don't sit back waiting for will be a lack of harmony in your
14 Hanging need National Park DOWN things to happen, or notrung will_ get 
15 Card game 39 Blue done. It's up to you to move ma home ifyou let your partner walk all 
1 Prefix with 

over you. Your feeling of being takenauthority 40 Sport_ disestablish­for a ride will grow, adding anxiety 
direction that will bring you the most 
in return. Don't scatter your energy; 

Edmond (popular mentarianism instead, push forward in a positive to an already frustrating situation. 16 Dull card game vehicles) 2 Adjective manner. Your numbers: 9, 13, 22, 26, 00 
41 "The Waste follower SCORPIO (OcL 23-Nov. 21): This ..
17 Actress who 38,43 
Land" poet ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get will be a fabulous day if youJ'lan
was married to 3 Afflictions 
your activities carefully. Spen theDudley Moore 42 Summits 4 Like some mgrs. day with your lover or your whole 
those domestic responsibilities under 
control before your mate decides to
44 Hand-dyes with

19 Fuss 5 Warning on the family. Do things that will be not
explode. You may find yourself

20 Puts on a wax Enterprise only entertaining but informative as
getting alittle upset ifyou think you computer hard 45 Pilgrims to 6 In a demure are receiving the brunt of everyone's well.00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.
drive Mecca manner problems. 00 
48 "Wait a !" TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 21): Unexpected visitors will be a
21 Jeweled 7 Cud chewers 
welcome sight. Spend time helping Your ability to find solutions to prob­
headpieces 49 Acid neutralizer 
8 Deli bread someone who is having a problem
lems will be admired and appreciat­23 Set down 50 Most sugary 9 Sane ed. You will meet exciting prospec­doing things. Don't start new pro­
24 Old Hartford 55 Compete 1OHighway divider tive new lovers through work. Make jects. It is best just to enjoy the com­hockey team 56 Trusting act sure they aren't involved with some­pany of others. 000
11 Not spaced-out CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
one else. 0000

12 What You will be demanding today. Don't 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You 

Fuzzbusters confuse your partner or take him or
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE will blow situations out of propor·
detect her for granted. Make sure you keep 
tion at work. This could easily reflect 

BOZOS HO ADE Puzzle by Peter Gordon your word regarding the tasks your
13 Angry on your ability to move into more A A E N A OBOES 18 Fed head 33 Run _(go 48 Like court 52 "_kleine responsible positions. You must con­lover has asked you to do. 000 
AQUARIUS(Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
trol your emotions if you wish to get 


ARM LATER B E S E T Greenspan crazy) testimony Nachtmusik'' 
Someone you work with will have
ahead.000

22 McSorley's 34 Fast jets, for CANCER (June 21-July 22): It difficulty doing his or her job due to
50 Practice in the 53 Restaurantproduct short will be difficult to control your feel­emotional instability. Come to the
ring review symbol 
rescue and you will be rewarded. Your
24 Songbirds 36 Most tasty ings when dealing with family mem­
51 A fisherman unselfish acts will bring popularity. 
54 Those people bers. You will confuse them, making
25 New Testament 37 Tranquil 
may bring one matters worse. Try to think things 000book 38 Hgt. home 57 Good service? throughbefore taking action. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 
26 Trumpet sound can work on those bad habits. It's
LEO Quly 23-Aug. 22): Problems

42 In the style of 
time to get started. You can make
27 Getting on in may occur with your financial insti­
43 Parts of string improvements and raise your self­
years Answers to any three clues in this puzzle tution or a government agei:icy, Dor:'t 
quartets esteem. Potential lovers will be inter·
sign important papers until later 111 44 Complaint the week. You will not get the re­
28 Mattel doll are available by touch-tone phone: 
ested in you if you are happy with 
29 Harvard, Yale, 1-900420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
sponse you want. 000 yourself.00000
Brown, etc. 45 Whiz 
Annual subscriptions are available for the VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your 31 Poker starters 46 Martini garnish best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 32 Half of MCIV 47_shooting years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Birthday Baby: You will always be willin=to others, an~ because ~f
he! this will gain r~p_ect and great popularity throu out your life. You will always face a challenge head-on and will p to take action whenever 
you £eel the need. . , . . 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia s Web sites at utroadv1ce.com, eugenialast.com, utromate.com.) 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
0 2000 Uniwrsal i'ffll Syndicate 

~ Christmas in April Benefit Run >1 
ihan"f> to the I14 partilipants that braved the c.o\d, we were ab\e to raif>e ~S for lhrif>tmaf> in Apri\ IH ~ 
SK Winners .... ./;,-: 1DK UJinners Male Under!Jrad Ben Dillon 19:07:,,Ma/e:Undergrad' ,,, Nathan Shau Female Undergrad Melinda Redding 24!22 Female ~ndergrad -·~ Lauren Gates Male Graduate Case Shay 16:25 Male Graduate Justin Anderson Female Graduate Louise Flanage 23:45 Female Graduate Kate Whalen Male Fae/Staff Eric Goulet 18:31 Male Fae/Staff Scott Mainwaring 35:06 Female f ac/Staff Colleen Moore 24:57 Female Fae/Staff Saara Romu 




Movin' on up 
Anne Senger and the Belles softball team won a pair of games this weekend to mo1;e into fifth place in the MIAA 
PORTS 
conference. 
page 18 
SOFTBALL 

Irish tame Wildcats, sweep doubleheader 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sports Wrirer 
The Notre Dame softball tca1n combined a spectacular pitching performance wilh a strong offense this werkend as it topped Villanova in Game 1 a double­
Notre Dame 9
header on Sunday. Villanova 0 "J was 
Game2 
pleased with 
Notre Dame 5
our players playing real Villanova 1 hard. Our pitching staff did a great job and we hit the ball hard all day," said head coach Liz Miller. 
The No. 21 Irish improve to 29-9 overall and 5-1 in the Big East after the weekend play. 
.Junior Melanie Alkire kicked off the Irish 9-0 win in game one with a single up the mid­dle to drive in a run. Alkire then scored as freshman Andrea Loman slammed a homerun to left field to give the Irish a 3-0 lead after the first. 
Notre Dame completed the scoring in the second with doubles by Jennifer Krisch and Jennifer Sharron and an infield single by Andria Bledsoe who drove in two runs. 
Sharron earned her 15th win as she combined with Alkire to allow just one Villanova hit, striking out six of the 11 Wildcats she faced. Loman and Danielle Klayman both had perfect games with Loman finishing 3-for-3 at the plate while Klayman finished at 2-for-2. 
see SOFTBALL/page 15 


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXIX 
Former Irish quarterback Rice seeks first title 
By KERRY SMITH Spores Editor 
ln 1988. Tony Rice led Lou Holtz's Irish to a national cham­pionship. 
!\ow. 12 years later. he's back on campus looking for anoth('r title, one that narrowly eluded him when he was a student -a Bookstore Basketball titl0. 
Rice teamed up with Matt McKenna, Jeff Joseph, Steve Recepero and Jason Garza to form four Chumps and a National Champion in the first day of Bookstore action Monday. 
"Matt invited me and I had some free time so I thought it 

would be fun," said Rice. "I thought we did well. lt was our first time playing together. It takes a total team effort and these guys were great. I guess they wanted an old guy like me out here, you know, it's just great to be playing." 
l'vlcKenna l'ollowed Rice's career when Hice was a student at Notre Dame and thought it would be fun to team up with the former Irish quarterback. After running into him in an air­port earlier this year. McKenna figured he'd go out on a limb and ask him to be part of the team. 
"l just Pmailcd him out o[ the blue," said McKenna. "I followed him as a football player and knew he was good at basketball too, so I thought I'd take a chance and see if he wa11ted to play with us." 
Four Chumps and a National Champion easily advanced with a 21-11 win uver Who Shot the Couch. with Brian Travers, Gregg Murray, Paul Stinson, Joe Loscudo and Dave Zachry. 
Bookstore basketball success is nothing new to Hice -his teams finished in second place two years in a row when he was a student. But winning isn't the reason why Rice is back on the court. 
"Bookstore is all about having a good time," said Rice. "If you can't play with a smile on your face then you might as well not be playing." . 
Having a good time was the focus of many gamPs Monday, and the gamn featuring the Mushroom Tip !ns and the Hookers was no exception. 
~Lnd by its pimp Brick Maier, who doubled as a coach, the Hookers, with Julie Heising, Alison Healy, Jean Lantz, Stephanie Newcom and Molly O'Rourke tested its moves against the Mushroom Tip Ins' Brian Kolle. Dan Henn, Tim Keller, Joe Smith and Jim Maclnerney. 
"It was a hotly contested game," said Kolle. "It got real 
physical near the end." 

The Ilookers led for most of the game with cheap moves, but the Mushroom Tip Ins came from behind at the end for the preliminary-round win. 
"We may play down and dirty," said ()'Rourke. "But that's what we're paid for." 
In more serious Bookstore action, Next Time bring Your Sister, You Hump with seniors Andy Meirose, Dave Whelan, Hich Bein. Sean Smith and Greg Eich just edged out Porter's Five Forces in a closo 21-19 contest on the Stepan courts. 
The two teams battled against 
see BOOKSTORE/page 17 
• 
Softball Women's Lacrosse
vs. Indiana ~) Today, 3 p.m. vs. Butler .. _u at Duke
~·
SPORTS 

Wednesday, 4 p.m. Thursday, 7 p.m. 
ATA at Michigan Track and Dield Baseball rt$·) Thursday, 3 p.m. 
'·,-::::,.-i ar Mt. Sac Relays (Calif.)
vs. Purch1e 
St
. Friday, TBA

GLANCE· • Tod:iy, 6:05 p.m. 




