
Australian Adventures 
Ticked off over tickets? 
Want to take a trip to the land down under? 
With many students dissatisfied about 

Friday
Get information on 11uslralia ·s hot spots 
football ticket distribution, The Observer 
and how to find them. 
belieues the system needs reforming. 
AUGUST 25,
Scene . page 12-13 
Viewpoint . page 10 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 4 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Cassidy leaves Student Activities for 'new challenge' 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Ass1sta11t News Editor 
Afti,r overseeing the addition of numerous student organiza­tions. the denial of oflicial recog­nition to OttlRPachND and the 
probation of t h C Progressive Student Alliance, Student Activities director Joe Cassidy left 


Notre Dame Cassidy 
in Julv to 
becomi• thc associate dcan of 
student affairs at Dartmouth "I was very selective -there College. wern very few positions I applied 
"I loved [Notre Dame]. It was for. I feel very fortunate," very difficult to leave," said Cassidy said. Cassidy. However, he explained Cassidy's new position is com­that he was looking for a more parable to an associate vice challenging job and realized that president of Student Affairs at it was such a position would not Notre Dame, a step up from open at Notre Dame in the near Student Activities Director. This future. was also a good time for his 
"I was rcacly to move up to family to move, he said, because that levt>I and there wasn't an his oldest child is entering opening lat Notre Darnel," kindergarten this year. Cassidy said. "I was very happy Mary Edgington will serve as ... but I was ready for a new acting director of Student challenge." Activities for one year while the 
Cassidy explained that it was University conducts a national important for him to leave Notre search for a permanent director. Dame for another "top-notch" Previously the assistant director 
institution. 
FLA votes to require factory disclosure 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
It can't hurt, but by itself, it likely won't benefit the Univnrsitv either. 
That's the lukewarm response from most parties at Notre Dame involved in anti-sweatshop initiatives following the enar:tmont of a new measure by some 140 coll11ges belonging to the Fair Labor Association {FLA). 
The measure. approved unanimously by the FLA's university advisory commit­ter~ in June. will require manufacturers to disclose the locations of the factories where they make school-logo merchan­dise. The policy will affect 141 member c:olleges and univ1wsi ties, including Notre Dame. 
The adoption of thn provision by the advisory panel stipulates that any FLA­affiliated college or university with a licensing program will require public disclosure of factory locations by its licnnsecs. 
But the shirt may not signal the types of changes here that many other cam­pusns will potentially experience. 
"To be honost. this is not a vory signifi­cant step for us," said Notre Dame busi­ness professor Ollie Williams. 
While Williams callf'd the recent action an "important collective breakthrough," it is seemingly familiar territory for the Uniwrsity, which since last fall has rec­ommondod that all licensees manufac­turing apparel bearing Notre Dame insignia disclose their factory locations. 
Prior to this summer's measure hy thP coalition of colleges, about three-quar­ters of' Notre Dame's more than 200 lirnnsecs voluntarily disclosed factory addresses. Effective immediatflly, addresses from companies such as Adidas and Champion. two of the Univrrsity's JargAst licensees, will be 
see FLA/page 4 
for facilities, Edgington said she 


Court and profs: Napster violates copyright 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
Last year a favorite song was just a click away. 
By logging on to the Napster net­work, using the Web site's search engine and clicking on a specific song, even unreleased materials could be heard over the Internet. 
Members of the University's network could download Napster software that enabled them to share music files with fellow users. However, in July, a dis­trict court in San Fransisco ruled Napster was infringing on copyright laws and must be shut down. 
Joseph Bauer, a professor at Notre Dame's law school and an expert in antitrust and copyright laws, agrees with the court's ruling. 
"The individuals who use Napster to make unauthorized copies of music are engaging in copyright violation," he said. 
"Because Napster is making avail­able the software to copy the music, they are engaging in contributory infringement. The record companies would have a difficult time suing you and me, but by suing Napster, they can prevent you and me from making unauthorized copies." 
Bauer said this is a legal issue, but eventually he feels it should be settled through legislation. 
"Whether or not Napster is infringing on copyright laws, they are making available the technology for others to violate copyright laws," Rauer said. "At the end of the day, I think this is an issue that Congress ,.vill have to resolve. It cannot he hest settled in tho courts, but in legislation." 
Despite the initial ruling that ordered Napster to shut down within 48 to 72 hours, an appellate court said because there was only a limited trial, the pre­liminary injunction should be over­turned until a full case is heard. Because the court of appeals felt Napster would be hurt more financially in the interim than the record compa­nies, it decided to dismiss the prelimi­nary injunction until a permanent was organizing retreats and learning her nAw role at the. beginning of the school year. 
David Moss, assistant vice president of Student Affairs, said that the University will begin advertising the vacancy in Octobf•r. Interviews would begin sometime around February, and the University would like the new person to be on staff around June. Moss did not rule out the possibility that the new director will come from within Notre Dame's existing staff. 
The University would like the new director to develop pro­grams targeted at a broader base of students "to make cam­pus the place to be," according to Moss. Experience in a similar position is another factor the University will consider when making hiring decisions. 
"A lot of vision and direction will come from that individual," said Moss. "We're looking for someone who has the best inter­ests of the students in mind." 
The director of Student Activities has many responsibili­ties, including overseeing Larortune Student Center, determining whether new clubs will receive University recogni­tion and working with student groups. 
The director also advises the Student Senate and represents 
see CASSIDY/page 6 


injunction could be rendered. However, Bauer believes the ruling will not be different after the full trial. 
"T'd be surprised if aft.er the full trial the judge wouldn't see infringements in copyright rules," he said. 
H.ob Easley, assistant professor of management in the College of Business, believes the music industry should take advantage of the Internet rather than fight like they have in the recent court cases. 
"My basic feeling is that the music industry is missing the point. They are not moving fast enough to take initiative ... The industry is losing opportunities and is pushing users to other platforms that cannot be shut down as easily as 
see NAPSTER/page 6 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, August 25, 2000 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Freshlllan Freestyling 
Florida's sr.honkhildrm1 typically score m~ar thn bot.tom of tlw nation in standardizPd tc•sts. something easily nxplai1wd by the f'act that. wf' W<\rc way too busy with swimming lessons to bP botlrnrt'd ·with schoolwork. Whiln kids in non• swimming states llikn 
V<1rmont and Manitoba) 
wcrn studying things like 
addition and grammar. we 
wnre bning hurlnd into pools 
by embittered old women 
l'rom up North who 1Lc;surnd 
us that llw D0ad Man's Float 
is the answer to all of life's 
problems. 
I. personally, absorbed enough chlorine a-. a child to Finn Pressly purify the 11 udson Hiver. That fact alone makes it all 

Assistant
thn morr humiliating that I 
News
nearly drowned during my 
University swim tPst three Hditor 
yrars ago. 
All!-r n\luctanlly parting 

with my !{lassrs in thr-locker room of the Bock 
on thn day of the t11st. I followPd a long line of' 
pain. blurry objncts out into tlrn pool area. Our 
lirst objridivl' was to swim across a narrow strip 
of warm water that was approximately two for.t 
dorp. apparently dnsigned to t11st the valuable 
"walking in waist•dnop water" skills what would 
undoubtodly save me from disaster someday. 
/\flpr that. I was f'unnPled to anothnr line. where• 
upon I was promptly ord11n~d to jump into the 
main pool. which, to somrone with 20/400 vision. 
looked rnmarkably similar to the Arctic Ocean 
and f'dt about four times as cold. 
I oncc saw a documentary on PBS rall<,d "In Seard1 of the Ice /\ge." Wcll, call off thP srarch, becausl' I found it -it's somewhnre in the deep 1111d of' tlw pool in the Hock. Grantnd, the whole concPpt of an indoor pool was fairly new to me. and I had naiVPly exprctcd that the purpose of constructing a pool indoors was to kenp tlm water warm. Apparently. the real reason is to knnp as mu<'h warmth as possibln f'rom coming into contact with the Univnrsity's precious supply of ice-cold wat1\r. 
Once my c:hest rP·inllated and I regain11d feel• ing bdow my knees. the loud blurry lane sergP.ant squatting on the diving board startnd barking orders at me. I 11gurnd sh11 was just going to lL'ik nH' Lo bob around in the pool for a while, or maybe play Marco Polo with the others. Instead. my lane sergP.ant (obviously drunk with powert started ordering me lo swim a length of freestyle. something I hadn't done since approxi­malelv 198(). 
They say that swimming is like riding a bicycle, but obviously ..thPy" have never seen me ride a bicycle either. because I stretched the definition offrrcstyl<1 to include "llailing all your limbs and hoping you move." To compensate for my over· abundance of' Free and nbvious lack ofStyle, I decid1•d Lo imprnss the judgns by showing that I could swim all the way across the pool without stopping for air. That plan l1Lo;ted about 40 sec­onds. and trust me. no on11 was impressed. In fact. it made me so dizzy that I startnd weaving all over my lane. doing a freestyle that had begun to look like some kind of bizarre horizon• ta! jumping•jack. 
Luckily, the University's definition of "passing" thn swiin t11st is about as loose as my definition of freestyle, so I r.vad11d having to take the swim class. I did learn. however, that thr,re's no shame in stopping for air. In fact. it's probably encour­agml Of cours<\ if all else fails. there's always the lkad Man's Float. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Erin LaR11ffa Amanda Greco Jason Mchirlcy Graphics Finn Pressly 
.Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production 
Kevin Bcrchou 

Kerry Smith 
Viewpoint 

Lab Tech Par Kelly Shannon Bennett 
rl,r Oh,crvrr (l!~I'.'> 5'1') 2-4000) i, pt1bl1<hrd Monday 1hrout1h h1d;1y t'Xr<:pr duml~ rx,1m J11d v,1cnio11 1~rln<h. Th~ Ohs~rvrr is ;1 mrmbrr of fhr AM.oci,ncd Pt('s.~. All rC'producrion ri~lus .ire-rest"rv~d 


THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Dorm fire sends students packing 

Hotel disaster sparks loft regulations August 25, 1980 
August 26, 1981 
Almost 100 St. Edward's Hall residents had to live in A disastAr involving the collapsn of two suspended 

makeshift quarters after a June 25 fire destroyed the walkways at the Kansas City llyatt Hegency llotel 

f'ourth floor and rnof of thPir home. About 98 of the prompted University conrnrn regarding tho building of' 

structures in student rooms. New regulat_ions wr,rn
hall's scheduled 124 residents W!'re housed in por­

tions of Grace, Flanner and Columba II alls following a, enacted which kept elevated beds no highr.r than six 
summer blaze initially speculated to be caused by 

feet off the lloor and no less than three fed from llrn 
workmen's blowtorches. 

lowest ceiling surface. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


OUTSIDE THE DOME 

West Virginia students calling for phone service 
MORGANTOWN. W. Va. VP.rizon is aware that students have
"The university and the. 
Vnrizon has estimated that hun­received a busy signal or a rncording
phone company have no idea
dreds of West Virginia UnivArsity stu• when trying to contact the company. dents are still without telephones, but how many ofus are without a "I would think there is something several students feel the company tha.t tlrn company could do for us,"
telephone; no one has even 
and the university arr, not aware Williams said. "With that bning the
asked us."
exactly how many students am with­only phone company in town, they out service. should be morn prepared for situa· "I don't think they realiZP how Tony Steel tions such as a strike." many of us arn without phones on Verizon reels that students have
West Virginia University student
campus," said Jon Williams, a history been misinformed while the compnay major. "Because 1 knovv at least 50 has b<'en on strike. studP.nts without phones." "Most people arn under tlrn under· 
Verizon's management has devcl· Verizon has taken several steps to standing that if thern is a tPlephon() oped a plan to help West Virginia stu­work with the university to nase the jack in th()ir apartment wn should bn dents obtain telephone service. situation. abln to hook up their phones," 
'The university and the phone com· "I contacted the university becaus11 Haught said. "But this is not the casn. pany have no idea how many of us I know the situation students are in It is whether or not th() facilities and are without a t11lephone: no one has without phones," said Doug Haught, p,quipment arc still in thn arna." even asked us," said Tony Steel, an assistant manager of Verizon West llaught's said his main concern is English major. "I don't think the uni· Virginia. "It has to br hard to be at that students have been told tlrnre versit~. even cares that we can't call school away from home without a will be a long waiting p11riod oncp, llw home. telephone to contact anyone." strike is settled. 
BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY 
Students to aid in Utah wildfire relief 
PHOVO, Utah 
Brigham Young University and Utah Governor Mike Leavitt have made plans to aid college students fight· ing to save Utah lands and lives. !\ news release sent from the governor's office announced that Leavitt and the Utah State Board of Regents have elected to help students lighting wildfires. "Many students were torn with school starting," said Cecilia Foxley, Utah com­

-missioner of higher education. "feeling committed to fighting llres but obligated to return to school." State colleges and universities have been encouraged to offer leniency toward student firefighters. she said. In a university announcement. the college has agreed to assist students remaining in the field to control the fires. "We'll do all we can to help them," said universi· ty communications representative Carrie Jenkins. Jenkins said the universitv will allow certified fire· fighters to arrive up to t~o weeks late for th~ fall semester without penalty. 
UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI 
Charges follow scuffle over flag 
OXFOHD. Miss. 

Anthony llervey said Wednesday that he filnd charges against University of Mississippi senior Balke Aufld following a dispute b11tween the two nrnn that occurred Tuesday evening on the collr.ge campus. Tim complaint against Aued stated that he "unlawfully and willfully and purposely caused bodily injury to Ilervey by striking him in the facfl with his fist." In addition to simple assault charges, llnrvey filed disturbing th11 peace charges because he said that he was engaged in peaceful protest at the timn of the altercation. Th<i accounts given by the two men differ on several points. Hervey said Aued provoked thn scuffle with his brother and he he by making physical contact with him and his confcd11rat<1 flag. Jin said /\ued also insult­ed him with racial slurs and ripped his flag. /\ued said that he did not provoke the attack and that he did not initialize any physical contact with llervey. /\ucd said he was accosted by IIP.rvey and his brothnr. llarry. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast Au..:uWr.nher *forrc;ut for d,iviimc condirions ;ind hil!h remnerarures 

The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon, Friday, Aug. 25. 
80s Lines separate high lemperalure zones lor lhe day. 
H L Friday ~ 83 66 Saturday 82 65 
~' 

Sunday ~ 80 65 
.,,....... .......... 
........... 

G 2000 AecuWeather, Inc. COLO WAHM STArlONARY

Monday ~ 84 67 
---~~­
P~ure: 

® © D D D D D D 
Hfgh Low Showers Rain T••torm• flutrlel Snow Ice sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy

Tuesday ~ 82 63 

Via Anoe,ali,rl Pr•ss 
Atlanta 92 71 Las Vagas 95 76 Portland 77 56 Baltimore 84 63 Memphis 96 77 Sacramento 96 61 Boston 77 65 Milwaukee 85 68 St. Louis 89 73

Q,~-~qQ,Q tJ ~ u 

Chicago 88 69 New York 80 67 Tampa 90 76 
Showers T-storms Rain Ru"ies Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Houston 90 76 Philadelphia 83 65 Wash DC 85 68 
Via Assoc1sted Pross Graph,csNel 

Friday, August 25, 2000 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC recognizes two of its own 
Kosik receives national honor 
Notre DamP and Saint Marv's the real reason why shr loves
. National coalition 
communities," Kosik said. · her job.awards SMC and In addition to being the "The best part of my job b ND Early Childhood executive director of ECDC, watching the children grow 
Kosik teaches both undergrad­and develop as we foster the
Centers' head 
uate and graduate courses in development of the whole child early childhood dovelopmcnt -physical, t1motional and and eduration as an adjunct cognitive," Kosik said. 
By KATIE McVOY 
faculty member at thr, This year, thr, hCDC-SMC is 
News Writer 
University of lndiana-South expanding once again. Bend. She also acts as an Positions for children remain 
Torri Kosik, executive dime­
Early Childhood Education open for this year, and fpr the 
tor of the Early C:hildhood and 
Consultant with programs first time these positions will 
Dc1vP-lopment C:f'ntNs {ECDC) such as thn area Head Start, bP offered to the public. 
at Saint Mary's and Notre 
WNIT Public Television and Families afnliated with Saint Dame, was named Director of the St. Joseph County Public l\,lary's will be offered the 
the Year by the National 
Libraries. spots first, and 'Jotre Dame Coalition of Ciunpus Children's 
Kosik favors her job at Saint families will receive next con-Centers in .July. 
Mary's and si de ration,
The rrward was prnscntPd to 
N o t r e Kosik said. Kosik at a national conference 
D a m e She called 
in Chicago. It rer.ognizes "11ze best part ofmy job is 
because of opening the 
Kosik's prnfossio11alism and watching the children grow 
several remaining 
r. om m itrn e n t Lo Lh e fi e l d of 
advantages and deuelop as we foster spots to thn 
campus r.hild care. it offers. public "a bigKosik. who came to the "The par­development of step."ECDC at Saint Mary's in 1974, the whole child ... " 
ents of the The ECDC-
has been a key component in students SMC serves its growth and development 
arc very 3-year-olds
Terri Kosik

throughout. tlrn past ZS yPars. 
committed through chil­Shn has seen tho program, Executive Director,
to the edu­drnn of which began in I971 as llappy cation o[ Early Childhood and Development kindergartenDav Care Center in the Saint 
their chil­Centers age, while 
Mary's Clubhouse, blossom 
dren," she the ECDC-ND into a two-facility r.onter that chil­
s a i d . serves scrvPs ovnr :-rno children of "There is dren 2 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame 
wonderful parent involve­years-old through kinder­
affiliated families. ment." garten age.The original facility 
was The center also offers college Kosik received a bachelor of moved from the Club Ilouse to 
students whose majors involve science degree in education llavican llall on the Saint children the opportunity to with an early childhood 
Mary's cam pus in 1975, and 
volunteer at the center. Kosik endorsement in 1974 from 
the ECDC-ND facility first believes "!volunteering] is a Concordia University in River 
opened in August 1994. Forest, Ill. a
wonderful way for students to She obtained 
"There was an increasing 
gain hands-on experience out­master's of science from the need for early childhood pro­
side the textbook." University of Indiana-South 
grams for tlw nrnmbcrs of the are Bend in 1977.
Kosik admits childrnn 
By ALICIA ORTIZ News Wricers 
Last spring, when most students were concentrating on exams and summer vaca­tion, Saint Mary's recog­nized two of its profes­strive for success. 
"As I tell my students, suc­cess comes easily if you find happiness, pl<;asure and ful­fil Im en t in your work," Vihtelic said. 
Klcnc received the 1999­
2000 Piota Award, which recognizes those who 

sors for h a v e
"First I felt joy and
excellence demon­
in educa­gratification on receiving strated 
tion. the award -joy that commit­Professor m e n t
students understood my
Jill Vihtelic toward
_goals and gratitude that
received the excellence Spes Unica they had written a in edur.a­Award for tion.
letter for me. " 
service at KI c n e S a i n t has been Mary's, and Sister Jean Klene an English 
Sister Jean English professor professor 
Klcnc  was  
the recipi­ 
ent  of  the  Maria  Pieta  
Award.  
Vihtelic presides  over  

many committees and is the chair of the busillf)SS admin­istration/economics depart­ment at the College.' She is also a faculty trustee and president of The National Academy of Financial Services. 
"I felt happy, humbled and more than a little nervous," Vihtelic said upon receiving this honor. 
Vihtclic said she wanted to encourage and inspire stu­dents and other faculty to 
at the 
College for 35 years. During this time, she said she has organized trips and used the latest technologies for English education. 
"First I felt joy and grati­tude on receiving the award -joy that students under­stood my goals and gratitude that they had written a letter for me," Klene said. 
She explained that she had a specific, though simple, goal for her students. 
"I aimed for students to see how their lives could be enriched by literature." 


week hot happenings  on  campus  
Friday, August 25  
4:30 p.m.  Office of Multicultural Student Programs & Services picnic with live music from  
VWFI, Fieldhouse Mall  
8:00 p.m.-12 a.m.  Billiards room open, ND Express in Lafortune Student Center*  
Dusk  "Rudy" on the Big Screen, (walk-in movie) Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Lawn  
10:00 p.m.  Rockin' the Rolfs: Open Rec at Rolfs following "Rudy"  
Saturday, August 26  
8:00 p.m.-12 a.m.  Billiards room open, ND Express in LaFortune Student Center*  
9:00 p.m.  Comic Kivi Rogers, Washington Hall.  Kivi has performed at A& E "Evening at the  
lmprov", Comedy Central's "Comic Justice" and on "Def Comedy Jam"  
and ·~t the /mprov".  Come see this upcoming comic known for his quick  
wit, thousand voices and a knack for mischief.  
Sunday, August 27  
8:00 p.m.  "The World is Not Enough", LaFortune Student Center Montgomery Theatre  
Monday, August 28  
8:00 p.m.  Monday Night Football Game Watch, LaFortune Main Lounge. Free food.  
Tuesday,August29  
7:00 p.m.  Activities Night, Joyce Center  

Wednesday,August30 
10:00 p.m. Wednesday night flicks, "Happy Gilmore" on the Big Screen, LaFortune 
Student Center Ballroom, Free food. *Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC students. Programs are subject to change without notice. 
Friday, August 25, 2000 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
FLA 
continued from page I 
drmandnd. 
"Now we're not just calling f'or that information: with this policy, we're requiring it," said Bill lloye, chairman of Notrn Dame's 
Task Forcn on Anti­Sweats hop lniliatiws. 
Fl.A policy alrnady ma11 d alOt; that licnnsl'PS with $10 millioll or morn in annual rnv,~lllll' b<~ Fl.A mnmhPrs or 

participate in thn Hoye organization ·s pri­mary monitoring syslnm. 
Thr FIA was crral<\d with tho back­ing of l'n\sidPnt Bill Clinton's adminis­tration lo addrnss allngPd abusns in tlw apparel industry, including sw1•11tshop labor. In addition lo participating col­kg11s and Lrnivprsiti(is, manufacturers and human rights groups have mem­bNship in tlw FI.A. 
Maurc,~n Murtha. the Fl.A's univPrsity liaison, said 111Pmb1'rs' involvnnrnnt in the organization translatns into a united and visible stand on labor issues. 
"0 11 t he ir o w11 , s r h o o Is I i k n No l r<) Ilame and Itlw University of'! Mkhigan have clout, but not so much when you considPr tlw overall sizn ol' tlrn overall footwear and apparPI markets." Murtha said. "This nnw measurn brings a lot of srhools togetlwr and makes thorn mueh morn nffective." 
Murtha said Notre Dame is one of about 40 schools associated with the FLA that alrnady requires their licensees to publicly disclose factory locations. She said the decision by the 100 or so other schools in the FLA to follow suit was promplt'd in large part by growing stu­dent protnsts concerning unfair labor practicns. 
At Notre Dame, the Progressive Stud,ml Alliance (PSA) has been outspo­ken on the labc,r practices issues. PSA prnsident Aaron Kreirlnr said demanding public disclosure is a positive stPp, but he !'Xpressed some qualms about what the measure will mean for bis organiza­tion and tho University. 
For one thing, Kreider noted that whiln Notre Dame's anti-sweatshop task l'orce receives input from the student body president. no PS/\ momhers serve on the committee. That is a fact the sociology graduate student finds troubling. 
"Thcy'vp excluded our group and any othPr activist group even though we'rr. the ones that put the issue on the agen­da," KrnidPr said. 
Another prohlem. according to Kreider, is that factorv addresses should be public records, ·nut restricted to accrss hy University oflkials. 
Although disclosure procPclures vary from labor standards. 
"If Ifactories] know they might be inspected, it might serve as a deterrent for instituting sweatshop conditions," Williams said. 
Iloyn agrees. 

He said the University continues. with great success, to monitor f'actories through a glohal accounting firm. 
And, according to lloye, who is also Notre Dame's associate vice president and counsel in the Offico of Crrneral Counsel, several recommendations by his anti-sweatshop task f'orce have already rect'ivPd approval from UnivNsit.y presi­dent Edward tv)alloy and arc well under way. 
One such rPcom1rnrndation, a proposed pilot project. would create a regional monitoring systom composed of' accoun­tants, human rights activists, clnrgy mem­hc. rs and other 11011-govPrnmental reprn­sentatives to serve as a watchdog over 
"Tn bP lwnPst, this is

school to school, it is North and Central currently Notre Dame's not a very significant American factories, policy to not publicizn .. I loye nxplained. 
stepfior us.

this information. 1loye said that plans Kreider also said that are also in tho works the addrnssns are only Ollie Williams to prohibit lhe manu­
one bit of information f'actu re of' products
business professor

with which University officials should be con­cerned. 
"The issue is so much bigger. It's also important to obtain information like wagns and working conditions in the l'actoriPs," said KreidPr, who also advocates tlrn University's joining the Workers Rights Consortium, a group with a stricter code of conduct and watchdog efforts than the FLA. Saint Mary's College is a mem­ber of the WHC. 
But Williams. who is also an expert in sweatshop legislation, said that making the addresses a matter of public record is not necessarily important. Instead, he said that information should be used to support a University mnchanism for mon­itoring factories and ensuring sound 
sporting the Notre 
Dame insignia in 
countries that ban 
p1:op\e's rights to organize or form unions. Ile said that would include China, the second leading manufacturer (behind the United States) of Notre Dame products. 
For another project, lloye expects to have results no later than October from a living wage study this summer in Mexico. That work may translate next spring into an academic symposium on the living wage which will be available for course credit to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
"Fair labor is an issue this University is very concerned with, and we're putting forth the effort to address needs through­out the world," Hoye said. 

Survey: ND counselors' top choice 
Special to the Observer 
II' they could do it all over again, high school guidance counselors say tlw Univnrsity or Notro Damo is thn school tlrnv would niost like to attnnd·. according to a nalionwid11 .survr,y 
in  t he  n e w  c d iti o n  or  t h ;\  
Kaplan/Newswe11k  Cnllng-n  
Catalog 200 I.  

The Kaplan National lligh Schoo I Gui clan cP Co u n s 1d or Su rvny ask t'.d 1·.ou nsn lo rs from public and privaln high schools a variety of targeted quostions. When asked whnrn thny would go if they could rnpnat tlrnir col­lege years, tho counselors most frnquently c:itr.d Notrn Damn. 
The guidP also rated Notre Damn among tlw nation's l1)ad­ing universities in terms of v a l LH) • r n s p o II s iv n n ess ·to t h n financial aid needs of' students and acad1!mic competitivnnnss. 
The Kaplan/Newsweek catalog contains admissions information !'or 1,100 colleges and univr,rsi­ties as well as information on enrollment, acadmnics, studnnt life, selectivity, linancial aid and graduates. In addition to Urn sta­tistical information, it also includns insights from guidance counselors on the colleges with which they are most familiar. 
Publislrnd this month, the guide is availablr. in most lead­ing bookstores. 
Please recycle The Observer 
biggieboy.com 

Had to leave your cock­atoo home? Exotic wildlife, canine note­cards, gifts, posters. Gorgeous! 
HomeGameRooms.com Coming to the big game and want to find some­where to stay?Want to place a listing? Listings only $25 / season!!! 
University Laundry 

1813 South Rend Ave. at Cimpus Shops "Hcst Laundromat in Town"
r---------------------, 
:50% off Drop-Off Serivce : 
L---------------------J 
:  24 Tans for $40  !  
:  Bring 'I'his Coupon  1  
:  Expiz:es 9/15/00  :  


... just come to 1st Source. As the area's leading financial institution, we can offer you unparalleled convenience, competitive products and pricing, and a level of service second to none. 
Convenience • With over 40 banking centers and ATMs in the area, 1st Source is everywhere you might be. Visit our full-service office in the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's, complete with ATM, or use our ATM in the Hesburgh Library. 
Internet Banking • With 1st Source Bank's on-line banking service for students, BankOnCampus.com, you can check your balances, transfer money between accounts, and even pay bills. 
Electronic Funds Transfer • Expecting money from home? 1st Source can make getting money from · home fast and easy by arranging to have the money transfered to you electronically. 
When it comes to banking, 1st Source has you covered. So save your prayers for a real crisis -like finals! 
Saint Mary's Banking Center• 235-2019 M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30 

ATION 
Friday, August 25, 2000 COl\lPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SEHVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Priest found dead in Kenya: An out­spoke 11 American priest who was critical of tlH' Kenyan government's human rights rPcord was found shot to death Thursday in western Kenya, police said. The body of John Kaiser. a Minnesota native who has worked in Kenya for tlw past ~6 years, was fonnd lying besid<l a road near Naivasha, 50 miles north­west of Nairobi, police spokesman Peter KiI11anthi said. 
Zimbabwe curtails evictions: The government cut back on police operations to drive ruling parLy militunts and illegal squat­ters from white-owned farms Thursday. say­ing policfl used excessive force in three days of' evictions. Jonathan Moyo, chief spokesman in l'rnsidcnt Hobert Mugabe's office, said "the gornrnment rngrnts and takes full responsihil­ity l'or the manner in whkh the police have sought to evict homeless families." 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
W. Va dedicates telescope: In an iso­1ated mountain valley, a giant telescope nr1arly as tall as the Washington \1onument is about to start seurching the sky for clues to the creation of the universe. The $75 mil­lion Hobert C. Byrd Green Bank TP.!escope ­th<i world's largest fully steerable. radio tele­scope -was being dedicated Friday after almost lO years of construction. 
Cheney questions monuments: 
Republican vice presidential hopeful Dick Chnncy raised the possibility Thursday that some of the new national monuments creat­ed by President Clinton could be reviewed and possibly rescinded if he and George W. Bush are elected in November. "Of course it's not my decision to make. It's the presi­dent-elect who has io make the decision," Cheney said. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Inmate kills self in protest: An 
inmate at the Indiana State Prison in \1ichigan City who set himself on fire and later died did so to protest the prison's med­ical treatment, according to other inmates. llarry Heuter, 61, was waiting to have his insulin chec:ked at the prison's medical clinic on Aug. 8, when he set himself ablaze with a butane lighter. Staff members used fire extin­guishers and blankets to put out the flames, but Reuter suffered burns over a third of his body. He died 10 days later at Wishard Hospital in Indianapolis. 
Market Watch 8/24 

Dow 
/ONES  11182.74  +38.09  
~· 1,131  Sarne: 528  Down: t~}°Y  Composite Volume: 837,120.000  
AME(:  931.94  +7.84  
Nasdaq:  405.3.28  +42.27  
NYSE:  671.94  -0.28  
S&P 500:  I 508.31  +2.34  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMrANYISECURITY %CHANGE $GAi]'.; PRICE 
CISC( l W.\TEMS!C,COl  ~ 1.()2  -(,R7'i  (16, "0  
NEXT 1.FVF.I. COMM (NXTV]  -'i4.'il1  -4•).8I 2'i  41.74>  
INTI· I. C0R!'(IN"l l:)  -.'iO  -.. l7'iU  7/42)  
I lFLI. l I lMl'lJTFR illFil.l  +Cl.81  •t-0 ..312-;  jtJ.(JO  
WORJ.DUlM INC iWCOM)  ... , .09  +O 377'i  34.'M  

BAHRAIN 

AFP Photo 

A piece of wreckage from Wednesday's fatal Gulf Air crash floats in the waters off Manama, Bahrain. American crews from the locally based 5th fleet have assisted the Bahraini salvage crew. 
Crews continue to salvage plane 
United Services Institute. "It helicopters and 10 small sonally directing the search
Associated Press 
is a necessary presence, but U.S. ships joined the night­effort, but the fact remains MANAMA perhaps a bit embarrassing time rescue mission. that much of the hardware 
U.S. ships and divers for Bahrain because it high­After a Bahrain television has been American. worked side-by-side with lights their dependence on station showed U.S. divers In addition to the Bahrainis Thursday on the the U.S." handing the Gulf Air's voice Catawba and U.S. divers, grim task of recovering the The USNS Catawba ocean recorder to local officials two small boats from the 143 bodies from the crash tug was called into action Thursday, the Navy wa's USS George Washington of a Gulf Air flight the day for a second day Thursday modest. helped comb the beach­before. after Bahrain requested "We did have divers par­front, collecting evidence to 
But U.S. officials were help salvaging the scattered ticipating but they were determine what killed the careful to play down their and twisted wreckage, U.S. part of a team," Gradeck downed plane's 143 pas­role. And though Bahraini Navy spokesman Cmdr. Jeff said. sengers and crew. officials expressed their Gradeck said. The tug and He refused to specify Bahrain's undersecretary gratitude, state television its 10-ton crane ferried exactly who discovered the for civil aviation acknowl­all but ignored the U.S. help divers and hauled chunks of vital evidence or how the edged U.S. assistance on -a reflection of how care­tortured metal from the 40-diving team was made up. Thursday, but only after he fullv the United States and fo o t-deep waters of the Nor would he say just how was asked point blank by a its Gulf allies must manage debris field. many U.S. servicemen were reporter. Meanwhile, their ties. The United States has participating in the recov­Bahraini efforts were 
"It's all about appear­close ties to this tiny Gulf ery operations or allow the described in detail. ances, to be seen to not be nation, headquarters to the American searchers to be Anti-Americ.an sentiment playing a dominant or big Navy's 5th Fleet. Minutes interviewed. in the region has never brother role in the region," after the Airbus 320 The U.S. military has been higher, and Bahrain said Neil Partrick, head of plunged into the sea pointed out that Crown can't afford to inflame pop­the Middle Eastern pro­Wednesday, the Navy's ·Prince Sheik Salman bin ular opinion, said one politi­gram at London's Hoyal 226-foot Catawba, four U.S. Hamad Al Khalifa was per-cal analyst. 
Transplants may help cure lupus 
remission, but researchers have nut University School of Medicine in
Associated Press 
trackrid many poople for vory long. Chicago.
LONDON A preliminary study of seven people "This is the best report I've heard 
New research bolsters the hope that very sick with systemic lupus, report­so far, and it looks very promising for doctors might one day b0 able to use ed in Tho Lancet medical journal this those autoimmune diseases that are bone marrow transplants to cure week, found that the transplanted life-threatening or managed at large autoimmune diseases such as blood cells appeared to have dominat­cost," said Dr. Noel Rose, a leading rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclero-ed renegade immune cells in all the researcher of' autoimmune diseases at sis and lupus. · patients and repaired organ damage Johns Hopkins University School of 
A few people with autoimmune dis­previously considered permanent. Public Health. eases -where the immune system It's too early to tell if the therapy Bone marrow transplants carry a goes awry and attarks the body -has cured them of the pot<'ntially fatal high risk of deadly infections and thus 
already have been injected with their illness, but all the patients are now would be appropriate only as a last own immature blood cells, called healthy about three years after get­resort for people whose diseases have stem cells. The results have been ting the treatment, said the not responded to other treatments, promising, with some remaining in researchers, from Northwestern experts say. 
page 6 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 25, 2000 
Cassidy 
continued from page 1 
Student Affairs at Senate meet­ings. In addition to making surn 1hn S1rnatP fo!lmvs proper pro­cend undnr its constitution, the dirnctor lwlps tlw Snnatn pro­sent tlrn group's idnas to tlrn administration and ad-vises on how the administration would react to certain proposals, according to sturlent body vici! prnsidenl. Brooke Norton, the s,~rrnt.P's !'hairp1,rso11. She said that Cassidy lwlprid 1111' SPnatii formula tn id ens without forc­ing studPnts to changP tl111ir icleas. 
Cassidy consultPd with Norton ar'1d student body prns­idn n t Brian O'Dnnoghun on major Student /\ctivitips' dcci­si o ns. according to O'Dnnoghue. Although thP tlirPn had official mPetings evnry other wcrnk, ()'Donoghue said he and Norton spokr. with Cassidv at !Past twn or thrcP times 11 wei1k. 
"fir. would involve us in every dncision lw had to make, and we wcrP gratnful for that," O'Donoghue said. "Joe always had the best internsts of the sturlents in mind. It's a great loss to the University, but a tremendous opportunity for.Joe." 
Somn students, however, had less positive interaction with Cassidy. 
OUTreachND, a stud!rnt­basPd organization that sPeks to lrnlp homosexual students, applind for official club status from the l:niversity in March. 
Napster 
continued from page 1 
:'Japster," EaslPy said. 
"If they would adopt a difforent business model. they could realize that lntenwt music incrnases tlrn nxposurn of tlw artists. and that is an advantagn," he said. "It could be viPwnd morn as radio. There am a lot of possibilities that are not being taken advantage of." 
John Miclrnl, also an assistant profossor of manag,!m(mt in tlw College of Business, said because Ml':{ files are readily availabln. record companies will not be able to avoid the tr.chnology. Ratlwr, tlwy should try to improve upon tlw technology. 
"I think rocord companies will ullimately have to find new and innovative ways lo use technolo­gy," lw said. 
Easley fnnls record companies may actually be missing an oppor­tunity lo incn!ase rnvnmws. 
"llming llw trial, thn lawyer f'or tlrn rncord industrv said that mil­lions of' Ml']s ar;! being down­loaded evnryday. With simpln math. it is 1Htsy to figure out that that rn11ld b11 t11rnml into a lucra­tivc flow of' n,wn11n if' record com­panies would rharge only a l'nw c1mts. 
"I fowi1v11r, they arP not willing to think about the possibility of sPlling tlw music l!ir less money," Faslc•y sa.id. 
Both Easley and Miclwl lwlinw [\japstnr may not be hurting rPrnrcl sal1,s and actually might hidp artists gd nxposurn. 
"Tlw jury is still out," Michnl said. "Tlw indications arn that it is not having murh 1:ffot'.t. and it is possibl11 that it is rnmplimentary lo n•rord salPs. It is hard to say how it will i,w11tually play nut." 
Mif'IH'l notl'd that Ml':h do not. havn tlw nxacl quality found on 1·ompa!'l dis1:s, and this makc•s tho tlm•at of' rPr.ord saiPs dnclining imnwdiat!'!y lnss likdy. 
"When exact duplicatns are lnclicating that Notre Dame preferred to serve homosexu­als on its own. Cassidy wrote a letter to club leaders in April denying the request. 
"l hope that the next admin­istrator is more willing to work with OUTreach instead of' working around us, so there's hope f'or the future," said David Wyncott, president or OUTrnach. 
()'Donoghue admittPd stu­dents would somf'times dis­agrec• with C:assidy's decisions, but {)'Donoghue said it was difficult to argue with the rea­soning behind thosP clPcisions. 
Cassidy was not always the only admistrator involved in decision-making, hut hf' was som11times responsible for informing students of unpopu­lar decisions. 
"lie had a tough job bricause he had to tell students what they didn't want to hear," Norton said. 
Wyncott said that he does not believe that Cassidy alone was responsible for denying OutReach recognition. Instead. Wynscott sees the denial as part of a "largPr institutional homophobia." 
Tim number or student orga­nizations at Notre Dame did increase over Cassidy's 13 years in Student Activities. Cassidy said that he believes the quality or the clubs also improved during that time. 
The accomplishment Cassidy considers his most significant was increasing student leader­ship training and recognition -including creating retreats and awards ceremonies. 
"The Athletic Department 
available, it will be a greater threat to record companies," he said. 
Easey said Napster may have allowed listeners to preview a CD and then be convinced to buy it. 
"Some say that listening to MP3s is actually pushing CD sales. As a consumer, you want to listen to a couple of tracks before you make the decision to go out and spend $15 on a CD," he said. 
Although Napster cannot be directly accessed at !'Jotre Dame, students can still navigate through other sites to the Napster Web page. Also, several other sites are available with Napster­typr, search engines to download music. 
Michel said many of these altr,r­nate methods may prove impossi­ble to shut down becausP, unlike Napstnr, they are not run through a central location. 
"l think the trading of music will still be pretty prevalent at Notrn Dame. There are many other sites and sources where students can download music largely for frne," Im said. "There is still the potential to share music at Notre Dame bPcause there are many other sitns you can usn." 
OvPrall. dPspite the argunrnnts the music industry should takf' advantage of the Internet's resources and not light the tech­nology, Baunr belinvPs the court rulNI accurately because copy­rights were b(iing infringed upon. tin addPd that ultimately artists should havn the right to decide whether or not their music is being sharc:d via the World Wide WPb. 
"What Napster has bPen doing violates copyright law and infring11s on thP ownPrs of' musi­cal works," Baunr said. "Some artists may want to allow peoplo lo mak1· copies of' thnir music, and tlrny shoulrl have this. llowevor, those artists who do not want their music (on Napstnr) should havP tlrn samP right not to have their music copied." 
was doing 
t h e s e 
large ban­
quets 
as they should ... We had rr,cogni­tion for students w h o excelled in the class­
room, Cassidy s a i d . "Wlrnn I first start­ed at N o t r e Dame, there was very little in terms of student lc1adcrship training and stu­s a i d ()'Donoghue. I le has not ynt had time to sit down with Edgington to µIan for tlH1 remainder of his term. Norton said slrn dons not nxpect major 1·.hang11s in the Student Senate sinc:1! it is primarily studcnt-ru n. 


0 'Donogh tw said, how1~v­c r, that Im rngrnts that Cassidy Ie ft lrnforn stu­dents had a chancn to

Mary Edgington will serve as Student Activities director while 
honor him

the University conducts a national search to fill the position 
publicly.
permanently. 
dent leadership recognition." 
Sinre students who lead out­side of the classroom and off the playing Held have a signifi­cant impact on campus, according to Cassidy, he want­ed to recognize them as well. 
As his last officia I act at Notre Dame, Cassidy endowed a student leadership award in honor of Sister Jean Lenz, the assistant vice president of Student Affairs. He described Lenz as a "mentor" who attended his wedding and his children's baptisms. 
In addition to Cassidy, other staff members have also left Student Activities recently for reasons such as retirement, 

according to Moss. 
"We'rn rnally short-staffed right now," Edgington said, though she added that because the staff has been doing "dou­ble duty," Student Activities programs have not. been affected. 
"We are excited about this time ... We feel we can bring in some great people [to fill all vacancies]." Moss said. 
It is unlikely that the change in directors will effect Student Activities or student govern­ment, according to both O'Donoghue and Norton. 
"Joe, before he left, put us in a very good position to do everything we wanted to do," 
"When Joe 
told mo he was leaving. [ had ,rnver had such mixed reelings in my life," said O'Donoghun. "I was happy but at tho same tinw I was sad to s1rn him go ... l con­sidered him a friend." 
O'Donoghun and Norton pre­sented Cassidy with a Notre Dame chair on behalf of the student body, ongraved with the words, "In gratitude for service and friendship to the students of Our Lady's University." 
Cassidy grew to love Notrn Dame, he said. While dirnctor, he received an MBf\ degrc1! from the University because, as he put it, "I wanted to be a Domer." 


Welcome Back 
SSP -NYSP -LIP ­
CONCERNS 

& ACCION Students 


Center for Social Concerns 
Summer Service Project Celebration 
The Center for Social Concerns would like to welcome the Summer Service students back to campus with a celebration to share the wonderful experiences that each student had over the summer while participating in summer programs. 
You will also arrange for a follow-up meeting at this time....except NYSP, ACCION) 
(unless you are participating in the Retreat from 8/25@ 5 PM to 8/26@ 4 PM) 
II Group photo will be taken at the. celebration. Please bring photos from your summer eHperiences! 
Date: Saturday, August 26, 2000 
Time: Between 9:00 AM and 11:30 AM 
Place: Center for Social Concerns 
We will have a Celebration Mass in Keenan Chapel 
DON'T FORGET TO SIGN UP FOR YOUR 20 MINUTE "DEBRIEFING" 
For further information call the Center for Social Concerns at 631-9402 


''IAm With You Always" 
(Matt 28: 19-20) 


ress 
·',/JP!ocese of Fort Wayne/South Bend 
~'~ ­
. 
SCHEDULE 

10:00 a.m. ~·<:':';< r Service: Sacred Heart Basilica 
'.':.:"'•->' 

11:00 
a~m. ~..ra"_._._. -"'~~ in the Joyce Center 

11:00 
-1:00 p sical stage performances DeBartolo Quad 


1:00 -3:00 p. ily and Teen Presentations in the Stepan Center -U .. . 
, 
~ i 

I:OO -2:00 p.mJ ':t rkshops Session I 
2:30 -3:30 p.dr:.j~ .~rkshops Session II 
• Workshops bef·i< •:•, eBartolo Hall and McKenna Hall 
;, .·•..~ 
·'.-~ 
4:00 p.m. ,!i;_-.\prJipde: Narrative history of our diocese 
4:30 p.m. ·'.:;e ,,.:;.::· ration of the Holy Eucharist at the Joyce Center: 
,, 
• Doors open · : ·:·Jl.m. Overflow seating available in the adjacent 
'...:..,;.:;,. 
fieldhouse and ~lll,f,;I will be televised on closed-circuit television. 

11:00-3:00 p. m. · , . t the Grotto hourly led by parish groups. 
• 1:00 p.m. Rosary will be ··,. ,/f , panish. 
~-; _lr_~J1,~l;
7 
Noon -3:00 p. m. Reclfij/ 
• There will be 30 reconciliation'Sz rd throughout the campus. Four sites will be located in the Basilica. Bilingual confessors av 
-:>:~~\ Noon -3:00 p. m. Euchqristic kt,,~j~~ and Adoration in Alumni Hall. 
Join us in~~' ~,, ,~:~·~-'~ileeYear 2000 
OW! 
For more info, check out www.diocesefwsb.org 
-~ 


page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS friday, August 25, 2000 
Police charge driver in wo01an's accident 
with insect bites and dehydra­
Associated P rcss 
tion. 'Tm glad they found who 
FOHT I AUDEHDALE. Fla. 

did this," said Lori Si'mms. 
A drivnr was arrr.sted 

Tooter's granddaughter. "I 
Thursday in wnnertion with 
hope he is prosecuted to the 
the accident that sent an 83­
full extent of the law. lie left 
year-o ld woman's car off a 
her to die. I hope he gets what 
bridgn and into a swamp. 
he deserves."
where she lay for three days 
The Florida Highway Patrol 
bd'orn bning resr.un<l. 
and Broward County firefight­
Scott Andrew Campbdl. 21. 

ers had received at least two
of' llollywond was charged 
911 calls Aug. 12 reporting a
with leaving the scene of an 
car going over the bridge, but
accident that resulted in 
they found only Campbell's
in,iurfos and filing a false' 
Camaro when thev arrived. 
polien report. 
Campbell, whi,se car had 
l'olice said Campbell rcar­

front-end damage, told troop­
endr.d Tillie Tooter's car dur­
ers there were no other cars 
ing the rniddln of the night on 
involw~d in the crash. investi­
Aug. 12. :-;ending it over a 40­
gators said. Firefighters used 
foot-high bridgo. For three 
11oodlights to look below the
days, no one knew she lay 
highway but f'nund no signs of 
undnnirath lntnrst,1tr. 595, in 
Tooter's 
p a r t 
car. 
because 
Campbell

Cam ph<~l l "/'m glad they found 
was qucs­
allegedly who did this ... Ile left. 
tionPd again
told troor­
her to die. I hope he gels aft<"r Tootnr 
ers that Im 
was found
what he deserves. " 
hadn't hit 
and said he 
another 
did not car. Lori Simms know what Campb<'II 
victim's granddaughter he had hit. 
was about 
according to 
a mile from 
in ves li ga­
tll<' arci­
tors.
dnn L sc:nrrn when troopers 
The FIIP confiscated his 
arrived. investigators said. 
Camaro last week. 
They b!\lieve h1\ was trying to 
Investigators said it had paint
drivn away. but his engine 
marks that were matched to 
died. 
Tooter's car.
Campbnll's lawyer, Lee 

lie surrendered to police
Cohn. said Campbell pulled 
al't1\r a warrant was issund for 
ov1ir as soon as hn could and 
his arrest.
w,L-; onlv it short distanc\~ !'rom 
Tooter had been headed to 
thP rra;h scPnr-IJP imnrndi­
Fort Lauderdale/llollywood
all•ly rl'ported thr-accident. 
International Airport to pirk
stavNl at the scf'ne and told 
up her granddaughter when
tro.opPrs hi; did not know 
she was struck from behind. 
whet.her ht\ hit a guardrail. 
She said she screamed,
debris or anoltwr vnhidn. his 
r.ursed and prayed for some­
lawyPr said. 
one to rescue her. 
"I lo did evnrything the law 

Tooter captured rainwater, 
says he's suppnsPd to do. l le 
sopped it up with a pair of
callml thP polic,i and he t()ld 
socks and then squeezing it 
thr\m what he knew." Cohn 
into her mouth. She also 
said. 
sucked on two cough drops. a 
TootPr survived by collecting 

piece of hard candy and a but­
rainwater in a stPPring wheel 
ton. and chewed her only stick 
cover and wrote a farcwnll 
of gum.
note to lwr family. Eventually. 
Simms said hr.r grandmoth­
a tnen-agnr picking up litter 
er is recovering. but "emotion­
spott1)d lwr. and she was hos­
ally she has a long way to go."
pitalized in snious condition 
,Attention SENIORS interested 
in the Rhodes, Marshall, and Mitchell Scholarshi s Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a final meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the application process on: 
Tuesday, August 29, 2000 
6:00 p.m. l 01 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information ma)' be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
· 

Lawsuit threatens violent group 
Two of the guards were con­supremacist movement, such as
. Aryan Nations 

victed of assault and are in Hobert Mathows, Handy
faces an indirect prison. A third remains a fugi­Wf'aver and Buford Furrow. a tive. former security guard at the
shutdown 

The Keenans am alleging Aryan Nations compound who assault. false imprisonment and is awaiting trial in Los Angelos emotional distress at the hands on charges of killing an Asian­
Associated Press 

of the guards. who they con­American postal carrier and tend were agents of tho Aryan shooting up iL Jewish day care
COElJH D'ALENE. Idaho 

Nations. They are seeking an center last summer.
A lawyer who specializes in 

unspecified amount in compen­Butler, however. has been
bankrupting hate groups is 

satory and punitive damages. largely able to escape jail tirrrn.
going after the Aryan Nations. 

Butler's beliefs should not be In 1988 he was acquitted of
whose compound in the Idaho 

used against him. the defense l'edf'ral r,harges that hn waswoods has servf'd as a club­
documents said, "Demonizing involved in a plot to ovorthrow
house for some or America's 

Jews is still legal under thn the government.
most violent racists. 

first Amendment." From his compound. which is
In a lawsuit that goes to trial 

Dees has long used lawsuits valund at about $200,000 andMonday. attorney Morris Dens 
to destroy thr, tinancns or hatr, has a sign out front that reads
of the Southern Poverty Law 

groups. In six such lawsuits. the "Whites only." Butler mails his
Center is rrprrsenting a mother 

Montgomery, Ala.. lawyer has literature. rer.ruits followersand son who were attacked by never lost. and plays host to the annual
security guards for the white 

In 1987. Dees won a $7 mil­Aryan World Congrnss. a skin­
supremacist group. The victims 

lion verdict aga,inst a Ku Klux head symposium that often 
are suing the Aryan Nations 

Klan organization over the slay­draws more t.han 100 acolytes.
and founder Hichard Butler. 

ing of a 1Cl-year-old black man Thf' gathering is generally lwld
Butler said the lawsuit was 

in Mnbile, Ala., forcing the on Adolf llitlor's birthday.
hrought by f'nemies of the 

group to turn over its head­Butler said tlrn possibln losswhite race. 
quarters building. In 1990. hn of his home "bothors rnn a littlo
"That's the way it is for the 

won $9 million in Portland, bit." lie is app<~aling !'or defense
white man today," Butler. 82. 

Ore.. against the White Aryan funds from nco-Nazi sympathiz­said Wednesday. "I think it's a llesistance in the beating <loath ers, writing on his Wnb silo: 
rape of the American justice 

of a black man bv neo-Nazi "We must not Int the enemies or
system." 

skinheads. -our race win this round."
The case has its origins on 

Dees has received death Six distributors of' skinheadJuly 1. 1998, when Victoria threats in the past. so the music arc donating proceeds
Keenan, 43, and her son Jason, 

Southern Povertv Law Center from the sale ol' CDs with titles
20. were driving on a country 

will have its own·security force like "Too White for You," androad near Hayden Lake. Their 
l.o augment the tight security "llolocaust 2000." 
car backfired as it passed the 

promised by Kootenai County Opponents or the Aryan
Aryan Nations' 20-acre com­

authorities. Nations arn looking forward topound. 
Butler is pastor of thn Church seeing tlrn group punislwd.
Security guards for the Aryan or Jesus Christ Christian. which Bill Wassmuth. whosn Conur

Nations mistook the backfire 

holds that whites are the true d'Alene homP was on,·n
for a gunshot. piled into a truck 

children of God. that Jews am bombed by white suprnmacists.
and chased the Keenans. who 

the offspring of Satan and that said it is important lo hold lf\ad­
are part white. part American 

blacks and other minorities arP ers or hatn groups responsiblP
Indian. for two miles. They 

inf'erior. Ile presides ovor l'or tlw actions or their follow­
fired five bullets into the 

weekly services in a chapel
Keenan car and forced it olT the ers. 
where ,rn Israeli flag is used as "\Viii a succ11ssf'ul outconw
road. Both Keenans were 

a doormat. eliminatti hati-groups in tlw
punched and threatened at 

Over the years. his disciples Northwnst'? No," Wassmuthgunpoint before lhe guards 
have included some or the most said. "Will it havP an impact'?
backed off. 

notorious figures in the white Most certainly." 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDYPROGRA..\1S 201 SECURITY BUILDING Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 T: 631-5882 Fax: 631-5711 

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS INFORMATION MEETING 
MEXICO PROGRAMS Monterrey, Mexico Puebla, Mexico 
Claudia Kselman Student Returnees 
Tuesday August 29, 2000 318 DeBartolo 4:45 PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINES: October 1, 2000 for Spring 2001 December 1 for Fall 2001 
Friday, August 25, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPAIGN NEWS page 9 
Reform Party candidate defends sanity 
Associated rre,s 
LOS ANGELE$ 
Ezola r•oster, Pat Buchanan's 

Reform Party running mate, 
cited a mental condition to collect 
workers' compensation for near­
ly a year, according to a Los 
Angeles Times report. . FostPr, 62, appliPd for workers' 
compensation in 199(i after 
refusing to 
return to Bell 
Thursday. "Since it wasn't physical, they make it mental, don't they? lf I don't haw a broken log or they don't see blood, or I'm not dead, they said I have to be crazy. And I would have been to go back them." 
She said her outspoken opposi­tion to illegal immigration had made her a target at the mostly Hispanic sr:hool and prompted her to seek workers' compensa­tion. 
Messages left at Foster's home Thursday seeking comment were not immediately returned. 
The mental disorder diagnosis was worked out "between my doctor and my attorney," the Times quoted her as saying. "It's whatever the doctor said that, after working with my attorney; was best to help me." 
She strongly claimed that she has no mental problem and never did, the newspaper said. "J am perfectly sane," she said. 
The Buchanan camp defended her as a vice presidential candi­date. 
"Ezola Fostr)r is an outstanding individual. Pat could not be more proud of his choice for vice presi­dent. As for her personal life from many years ago, we have 
High School. 
"IfI don't have a broken
where she was 
leg or they don't see
a typing teacher. blood, or I'm not dea.d, Foster said 
they said I have
in an interview 
this week that to be crazy. •· 
she had "two 
r:hoir:es to sur­
Ezola Foster 
vive," the 
Reform Party vice 
nowspapor 
presidential candidate
rt>pnrted 
no comment or concern," said Bay Buchanan, the candi­date's sister and campaign co-chair­woman, in a statement. 
T h e Associated 
P r e s s obtained pub­lic records from the state 

Division of Workers' Compensation that had com­ments on the nature of the injury and a description of how it occurred blacked out. 
Public records from the state Workers' Compensation Appeals Board show that Foster applied for benefits based on a mental condition, the newspaper said. The exact nature of the condition is blacked out and Foster's attor­neys have opposed the Times' request to obtain the complete file. 
Tension between Foster, stu­dents and other teachers flared afier she appeared on the "McNeil/Lehrer News Hour" in 1996 and argued for laws that would ban states from enrolling illegal immigrants in public schools. 
GOP soft money donations surge 
Associated Press 
WASl-llNGTON 
The Republican National Committee collected almost $800,000 in unregulated soft money donations from energy companies after George W. Bush tapped Halliburton Co. chief executive Dick Cheney as his running mate. 
Some companies had not given any soft money this_ year until Cheney joined the ticket. Cheney headed the oil services company for five years after formerly serving i.n Congress and as secretary of defense; Bush also is a formAr oil com­pany executive. Cheney resigned his post last week. 
The $791.100 in energy con­tributions during the last week of July were part of the $25.2 million in soft money dona­tions the RNC took in last month -half as much as they raised during the previous six months. The party took in 8b donations of $100,000 or more. 
HNC spokesman Bill Pascoe acknowledged that Cheney's selection helped boost dona­tions. 
"It really is a reflection of very broad and obviously deep support for the ticket," Pascoe said. "Once the announcement was made, the floodgates opened." 
While soft money is not sub­ject to federal contribution lim­its and cannot be used to directly aid federal candidates, both parties use the funds to help pay for issue ads designed to help elect their candidates. 
Besides the soft money con­tributions, the Republican National Committee last month raised $12.4 million under fed­eral contribution limits, so-called "hard money" used to directly help candidates. Since Jan. 1, 1999, the HNC has raised almost $180 million. 

The Democratic National Committee, which reports its finances quarterly, raised $108 million from Jan. 1, 1999, through June 30, 2000. 
On Thursday, the DNC added $1.25 million in hard money to its coffers at two intimate fund-raising dinners at a Washington hotel. At the first, Democratic presidential nomi­nee Al Gore and Democratic National Chairman Joe Andrew spoke to 50 Indian­Americans who had paid $5,000 apiece and dined on salad and sea bass. 
Gore apologized for a sore throat. "Someone said it's actually better and that the problem was before I was campaigning in my own voice." 
The second dinner, prepared according to Jewish there is any kind of competi­tion on this ticket but I'm not going to stop until we rnach. seven -seconds, which is the current world record," Lieberman said. 
The Republican National Committee's biggest energy donation after Cheney joined the ticket came from Black Beauty Coal Corp. of Evansville, Ind., and its chief executive, StevAn Chancellor. They gave a total of $310,000 after Bush picked Cheney. They had not previously given any soft money during the 1999-2000 election cycle. 
Company executives declimid to comment. 
Larry Makinson, executive director of the Center for Responsive Politics, said ener­gy executives clearly are excit­ed over the Bush-Cheney tick­
et.  
"Clearly  the  addition  of  
Cheney  
made  it  a  


dietary "Clearly the addition of pure oil laws, fea­Cheney made it a pure oil ticket, so I 
tured Gore imagine
ticket, so I imagine any­
and vice­anyone in 
presidential one in the energy sector the energynominee 
would be enthusiastic." sector Joseph would be Lieberman 
enthusias­

speaking to Larry Makinson 
tic," said friends and executive director, Makinson, supporters 
Center for Responsive Politics whose non­
of the Connecticut senator, who had raised $50,000 apiece. 
Hadassah Lieberman intro­duced her husband, who responded with a kiss. It drew laughs from the audience that recalled Gore's smooch with wife Tipper at the Democratic convention last week. 
"I don't want you to think 
p artisan 
research 
group stud­ies campaign finance. "I can see why they would be ener­gized." 
Other big donors to the RNC last month have issues pend­ing before the federal govern­ment, including Schering Corp., which gave $100,00, and SBC Communications, which gave $125,000. 



i-i---------------------------------------------­
VIEWPOINT 
O
rHE 

BSERVER Friday, August 25, 2000
page I 0 
============================================================-====:===== ----_-_---~----~~~~.:::~.:::::.:::::::=====-=--=--=--=--= 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O.!\,,, Q. ",,,,,, !);p11c IN 4(,556 024 Sourh l>inin~ H.,11. Nn110 11.unc. IN 4655(, 
EDITOR IN Om:r 
,\like Connolly 

MANA<,ING fa>ITOR Bi:stNESS MANAGf.R Norc<'n ( ;;lbpit· Tim Lme 
As.~1'. MANA(;rNG EorroR 01'flUTrONS MANAGf.R Chri.,1i11c Kr.dy Rrian Kessler 
NEW~ EDITOR: A1111e Marie Mattin~ly VtF.Wl'Ol!lff ElllT(lR: Lila Haughey Sro1ns EmroR: Kerry Smith ScENH EmroR: Ama11da ,;reco 
• SMNT M,\RY's EmToR: Molly McVoy 1'11crrn EnrroR: Eli,.ahcth l.:tng 
AllVr.RTIS!NG MANAGFR: Pat P~tcr, AD Dr.m;N MANAGER: Chris Avib SvsTl'MS At>MINISTRATOR: Mike (;u,1vilk WEB AIIMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CON fROI.U.R: Hob Wood~ GRArrnc:s Et>ITOR: Jos.-Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
()i;HCE MANAf,l'll./GF.Nf.RAI INl'0..............631-7471 
FAx .. .. . ................6.~ 1-6927 
Al>Vl'RrTSING .. ., ................................63 !-6900/8840 
oh.crver@darwir1.cc.nd.cd1r ElllTOR IN Cillf.F........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/A.~ST. ME... ................631-4541 llllSINESS Omcf........ ............. . ..............631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu YIEWl'OINT..............................,..................631-530.~ observnvicwpoinr.l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4 543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 obserwr.scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARV'S............................................63 !-4324 observcr.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SVSTEMSfWEB ADMINISTRATORS...... .........63 l-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site at http:lloh,m,er.nd.rdu for daily t1p,lares ofcampus news. sports. !camres and opinion rnlumns. a., well as cannons. reviews and breaking news from che Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up·IO-rhe 

weekly student reviews
minuce forecascs 
advertise for policie,; 

online features for SJ?"­
and rates ofpri tlt ads 
cial c.impus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 

rn meet the cdirors and
anides publishnl after 
August 19')') 
staff 

POLICIES 
rlit Observer is the independent. daily newspaper puhlished in print .md online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du l.ac and Saini Mary·s (:ollege. Editorial comem. including advertisements. is nm governed by policies of the administration ofcitner insrirurion. The Observer reserves rhc right ro refuse adverriscments based on content. 
The news is rqmrred as a-:curately and objectively as 1>oss1hlc. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority oftill' Editor in Chid'. Managing Editor, Assistant l\fanaging Editor and dq>artmcm cdi«JfS. Cmnmentaries, letters and columns prcsenr the views of the authors and not necessarily tho,c ofThe ( )bscrver. 
Viewpoint spare is available IO all readers. The free expression of;ill opinions through leners is encouraged. Ic11crs w 1he Editor musr 1-.c sigm·d :md rnust include rnntact inforrn,uion. 
Q11mu111s rff[_1mimx ( )hserwr policits .<ho11/d he direct· alt~ F,iiw III Chi,(Miler Ctm no/I~. 
Ticket system needs ref arming 
With another year of football tickPt dis­lribution having passnd, it has becom(' V<ffV dear that the stud1~nts am dissatis­lir.d. The current systnm is not practical. The probkms with tickut distribution and S('ating assign­mcnl procndurcs go OJhe hand in hand. Onr, userver 
cannot be fixed with­out lixi11g thn otlrnr. Long lines and con­
Editorial

fusing distribution systmns frustrate stu­dents. Kickoff !'v1mts plannod by Student Activities and Student Government. arc poorly att11ndr,d uncl clislikod by many students. 
Oncc students rnceive their scat assignment, they rarnly use that sflat. Priendships and acquaintances changi1 throughout a season and under tlw cur­rent snating system, one cannot sit next to a new friend ho or she meets in 
Each student should be issued a ticket hook allowing access to the sections of seating designated for his or her dass. Upp1irdassmen would still be assigned 
"I le done messed with Texas, is the whole country next?" 
As Election Day draws closer, I find it rather timely to reprint the following list, which details some more telling social indicators of just how drastically social welfare has declined in George W. Bush's home state of Texas. It comes courtesy of John R. Finnegan Jr. from the School of Public Health, University of Minnesota. 
"Just a little something to keep in mind around November ... The state of Texas, under the leadership of Governor George W. Bush is ranked: 
50th in spending for teachers' salaries, 49th in spending on the environment, 48th in per-capita funding for public health, 4 7th in delivery of social services, 42nd in child-sup­port collections, 41 st in per-capita spending on public edu­cation, fifth in percentage of population living in poverty first in air and water pollution, first in percentage of poor working parents without insurance, first in percentage of childrPn without health insurance and first in executions (averaging one every two weeks for Bush's five years as 
• Governor.I .lust think of what he could do for the country if he were president!" Knowing the score on these issues is quite important in the aftermath of the Republican National Convention in Philadelphia, whern the party frantically attempted to posi­tion itself' as the "compassionate-conservative" party of "inclusion." A bizarre procession of token right-wing blacks, Latinos and entertainers proclaimed their allegiance to the GOP in what resembled a carefully staged pep rally more than an actual political event. Prominently featured here was the most ominous signifier of this contrived "together­ness:" the Mexican-American "beautiful person" Incarnate and C..W.'s nephew, George "Ricky Martin" P. Bush. These purported representatives of the downtrodden, disenfran­chised and marginalized elements of our society were repre­sentnd to the populace as testimony to the unity between "Capitalist Man" and "Everyman/Woman." 
Unfortunately for those of us who actually care about thP rights or minorities, the poor, and gays and lesbians, the Democratic party rhose to retort by naming a socially con­servative Jew (who .ioined the GOP in bashing Clinton during the Lewinsky affair) as candidat11 for Vice President. Both parties arc now engaged in two contradictory efforts: a furi­ous light lo reclaim the moderate political center of the nation, and an attempt to position themselves as the savior of society's most downtrodden factions. This socond pursuit is proving to be the most curious and reprehensible aspect of the recent conventions. What oxymoronic misnomr,r will be issuod forth next. The Homeless for Family Values'? Anti­Sumitic Squatters? Gays for the GOP? Laissoz-Fairo 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 


OctobPr. Studrmts tlrnn develop claboratn pass­back systems to Int fri,mds sneak past the ushers and into diffornnt sr:ats. Thr: uslrnrs arn given the unfortunate duty of enforcing nned­lnss rules. 
b1itter sections and morn dndil:atnd fans would b,~ n~wardcd with better scats within their •Snct.inn for arriving narly. The uslwrs would no longnr bn rpquirml to onforcn ruins many studnnts dnt11st. 
This ni~w ticknt syst.nm would also nliminatc the need f'or a ticket lottery and the long lilrns that accompany the limitPr.l hours when stud1mts can purchasn tick­f\tS. Stud1mts could purdmsn tickets dur­ing thn first wonk at their lnisurc1. The normal box otlice hours would allow plenty or time for studnnts to purchaso tickets. 
This procedure would 11liminal.l~ h,iadachcs for cvnryonc involved in tlrn current systnm. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Untangling the political party mess 
Unionists? The possibilities (and the ability to manufacture them) are as limitless as the campaign coffors ol' tlrn two big-money parties themselves. 
In the age of "no-invl'Jlvement" voter apathy, civic engage­ment for the masses has rapidly deteriorated from tho ready-made "sound-bite" politics of the recent past into a wholly illusory public sphere. Discussion about substantivn social and political issues are replaced by empty rhetoric, tired platitudes about families and children, propaganda, personalized moral attacks and pointless bantering about lame issues that do little to impact elections. More discern­ing minds need to probe beneath the shiny veneer of both the Republican facade of inclusiveness and the Dnmocratic Party's logical count11r-maneuver of nominating Lieberman as Gore's running mate. 
Make no mistake, the corporate hegemony still plays the defining role in crafting tho ultimate mission of both parties: to further the global implementation and enforcement of neoclassical/ liberalist free trade policies until no country is left undeveloped, no labor market left unexploited and no natural resource reserve left untapped. No matter how much Republicans and D11mocrats try to tell us otlrnrwiso, social and environmental justice will be rendered sub­servient to the imperatives of global fro11 market expansion as long as they and their vested interests wiold tho power. 
So is there a way out for our country's disempowered electorate? Can we reclaim Democracy from the throes of' the "Corporocracy?" Perhaps not, but resistance to the dom­inant two-party system can begin with each individual who sees through the facad11 of Evei-yperson inclusivcnnss. Educate yourself about the issues. Seek your own opinions about the candidates and their positions. Although the mainstream media pays them scant attention, both parties have issued forth platforms and tax plans. Discovnr thnm. Discuss them with your fri1rnds. Carry on as if' the world of entertainment politics doesn't exist. Evnntually, you and others you know just might vote on a candidate n1gardl11ss of which ono is endorsed by Tho Hock or Melissa Etheridge or Celine Dion or some other celebrity whose political pre­dispositions are irrelevant to your Election Day decisions. And maybe one day, a third party can brnak the strangle­hold that these two have upon the American political sys­tem. 
Joseph D. Rumbo 
Graduate Scudcrn Depancncnr of Sociology August 24, 2000 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When I was a boy I was told that anyone could be president. I'm beginning to believe it." 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Friday, August 25, 2000 BSERVER page 11 

GUEST COLUMN 
Taking a stand against cell phones 
CIIICO, Calif. 
A nicent study by researchers at Arizona State University identilied the electronic plastic growth that connccls tlrn hand to the ear of SO.I percent of C()llege students across the country -cellular phones.
But as cell phone Randy Striegel usage increases al North 
Anrnrican colleges and universities, so does a The Orion sense of intolerance 
among non-users. 
Perhaps the technologically inept "have-nots" imvy their cell phone wielding counterparts, as suggested by the 57.4 percent of the non-own­ers who said they wanted to buy a cell phone. 
But cell phom~ users are often p0rceived as elitist. pretentious and lazy. Why? Because they're prepared in the event of an emergency? Because they've created a constant link between the.mselvcs and their loved ones? 
No. Because of the smug grins that adorn their faces as they stroll contentedly past public phones, cell phones in hand. en route to wher­ever it is they're going-a crowded movie the­atf,r, the Meriam Library during finals week or anywhere people might take exception to the abrupt, incessant ringing cell phones are known for. 
But if it's not the ringing, it's the talking. 
Recently while in Las Vegas. I heard a man talking on a cell phone from a stall in one of the restrooms of the New York, New York Hotel and Casino. 
"Guess where I am?" he said excitedly, his voice echoing off the linoleum floors. 'Tm in Vegas!" 
Simply put. the line separating appropriate and inappropriate locations to use cell phones has grown increasingly vague. 
t\nd while an argument can be made for the theoretical importance of cell phones -to call 9-1-1. or to report an accident on the freeway -most people take exception to the ways cell phones arc used. 
37 percent said they used their cell phones in the past three months to order takeout, and 21 percent to participate in radio contests. 
Worst of all, however, is the sense of vanity associated with cell phone usage. According to the t\SU survey, 14.8 percent of cellular cus­tomers "bPlieve that cell phones make them look stylish." 
Some would argue that cigarettes serve the same purpose -and likewise alienate those who dlm't use them. But where cigarettes pose a legitimate physical threat to non-smokers. cell phones create a less immediate, though equally disturbing, backlash. 
Cell phone users. quite simply, perceive cellu­lar phones as status symbols. More than 20 percnnt of those surveyed said so, which then b(igs the question: !\re cell-phone users better p11ople than non-users? Do they deserve more nispect or prestige simply because they have accepted the financial burdr.n of cell-phone usage'! 
Of course not, but don't tell them. They might makr. tlrn mistakn of callin~ someone who ­cams. 
This column jir.'>t appeared in the Cal{fornia Stale l!niNJrsily-Chico neu•spaper, The Orion, on 1\ugust 2J, 2000, and is reprinted here r·m1rtPsy of['·W!RF:. 
The uiews expressed in lhis colwnrz are those <~(the a.ulhor and not neces.'>arily those n.f The Obsereer. 
Orientating a new class of presidential candidates 
Notre Dame freshmen and freshwomen (let's be politi­cally correct, especially since I am one of those who helps mirror the diversity of our nation while serving in President Clinton's administration) have much in common with Vice Presid1mt Gore and Governor Bush. Both candi­dates and students have begun a new life cycle unlike anything they could have expected. They are still slightly naive, well-intentioned, unfamiliar with their new surroundings, and uncertain of their immediate future. Yet they have tremendous potential for success. 
My first freshman day on Notre Dame's campus was a nightmare. I walked past Morrissey, through the arch at Howard and headed towards the Golden Dome. Somehow I ended up near the library and was hopelessly lost. Returning to the Dome, I found myself near Lewis Hall and could not figure out the direction back. I learned quickly how to tell north from south depending on how Mary was standing above the Golden Dome. 
The presidential candidates' first few months this year during the primaries have been as traumatic. Bush stum­bled and lost elections while Gore consistently trailed Bush in head-to-head poIIing. Their spring suc­cesses were like graduation from high school. The big game was to come in the fall. 
Now that the "big game" has begun, Gore is riding a bump from his conven­tion while Bush is scurrying to try to regain his momentum. Just as I learned how to guide myself on cam­pus by using Mary's stance on the dome, the candidates are learning how to maneuver around the pit­falls of the campaign. Like any University student, the candidates will settle down for their first few weeks of freshman classroom learning in September. 
Football season opened for both candidates wV.h their respective conventions. Both have won that first game in the public opinion polls, but the sea­son is young with Gore currently ranking ahead of Bush. Look for the Gore lead to beat the odds makers' lines and widen this year if Bush fumbles on his debate "con­sideration" he currently is dragging out or ifhe continues to flub lines like he did at a fund-raiser on Monday evening. 
Presidential rhetoric consists of both the spoken word as well as the actions taken to complement a president's message. The public's perception of a president's actions is the label that sticks with each presi­dent. Reagan had conviction. Carter was weak. Bush was out of touch. Clinton has charismatic magic surround­ing him whether you watch him on the television or meet him in person. He reminds me of a younger Ronald Reagan in his style and mannerisms. 
Governor Bush's embrace of Bob Jones University with­out the slightest mention of disagreement with their bigot­ed policies against Catholics and minorities spoke louder than words. Gore's long kiss of Tipper on stage at his con­vention spoke as loudly that he was a family man different from Bill Clinton. as did his speech which included, "I am my own man." 
Somewhere durlng this campaign, either Gore or Bush will make an error. like President Bush did when he looked at his watch during a debate with Bill Clinton. Not only did Rush's remark in 1992 that he did not know grocery stores used bar codes during the checkout process hurt him, but his appearance that he did not have the time for the American public during the debate reinforced the percep­tion. 
It is somc>.what ironic that Governor Bush used the exact language that Bill Clinton used in 1992 when he said, "It is Lime for them to go." It is more ironic that Governor Bush has campaigned on the exact issues o~· Clinton and (;ore when they ran against Bush's father, issues of reform and indusivenoss. · 
That means including those who traditionally have been discriminated against in varying degrees throughout our society. It also means an end to government intrusion into the private lives ofAmericans (except abortion), favorite topics of' the conservative far right. 


Ideally, those goals of inclusiveness should be. for free­dom loving people like Americans, supported without ques­tion. However, it seems as though one must describe him­selt' as a "compassionate" candida.tf! to appeal to indepen­dents while still maintaining support from what I call "a red neck mentality" when it affects a specific issue tradi­tionally opposed by Republican lawmakers ... issues like including gays in the military, allowing family planning clinics to discuss all options available to wonH>n or initiat• ing a family leave policy. 
Today, Bush leads in several key states because of his high support from white men, the type who hate to lock their guns for fear the government will next confiscate them. Gore has increased his support of women and the traditional Democratic base which had been soft prior to the convention. Following the first presidential debate in October, Americans will see just how dull and slow-witted Governor Bush can be without a script, but will be sur­prised by how well he will do as a result of the low expec­tations Bush is promoting. His short one-liners will keep him in the ball game. 
However, by mid-October, watch if Gore, like a football team that wears down it's opponents, can counter enough 
to stagger Bush and his simple one-liners. It will be, in my opinion, the second debate that makes and breaks this election. The third 
debate will offer the reassurance voters need to validate who won and lost the sec­ond debate. By election night in early November, voters on the West Coast will 
once again know who the next presi­ent will be before their polling places are closed. I am not ready to tell 
1
Democrats to start chilling their ,champagne now, but I expect to by mid-October. 
The first few weeks of this cam­paign will be like those of a school year, the most socially important for a student. The upperclassmen can attest to how friendly everyone is, and then bow quickly everyone falls into a rut that they follow the rest of the semester, if not the entire year. Whichever candidate 
can establish a lead by the end of , ~ next week will ride a crest or psy­chological momentum as voters turn off the campaign until after the Olympics. I often wondered what the entire school year might be like if everyone followed the "freshman friendly" mode ­namely, being open to strangers regard­less of personal beliefs or physical attributes and easily making them a friend. Imagine what the campaign would be like if voters acted like students during those first few days of the 
school year? Our voter turnout would be the highest ever and our campaign issues would have substance beyond the sound bites and one-liners. 
While the "freshman friendly" attitude fades as the school year progresses, it does rekindle during life. It is a marvelous characteristic to have, especially if you encounter someone with unique experiences and perspec­tives. These are the types of opportunities that make a pos­itive and substantial impact on your life. 
Might I suggest that everyone take a few moments each week to sit at a different place in the dining hall, approach someone new in each class or just play sports with differ­ent students once in a while. You may be surprised at the end of the year at all the friends you've made. It is an easy thing to remember, especially when the next president is trying to convince you that his freshman experience will shine through his conduct while he occupies the \\lhite House. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73. is serving in President Clinton's administration as a Cnngressional and Public Affairs Director and is currently assisting Vice President Gore's 14'/zite lloase Empowerment Commission . . 
His column appears eiiery other Friday, and his Internet address is Holtline@aol.com. The 11iPws expressed in this column are those ofthP author and not necessarily those ofThe Ubserz,er. 

page 12 Friday, August 25, 2000 
Finding your w 
Whether you 're considering a leisurely vacation, competing in "Survivq spots you can .,t afford to miss -and all the in for, 

In addition to the seacoast town of Noosa, here are some other popular hide­aways favored by the locals in Australia: 
* The Great Ocean Road winding along the southern coast of Victoria, which rivals California's Highway One for rugged coastal scenery, including the "Twelve Apostles" rock formation jutting out of the surf. There are motels and bed­and-breakfasts the whole way. 
"' The New England Highway through New South Wales to the rural center of Armidale, a route that brings urban dwellers back to the land to enjoy farms and rolling sheep pastures. 
"' Byron Bay, a New South Wales answer to Noosa, another low-rise coastal community featuring restaurants, cafes, surf shops and art galleries, up the coast almost to the Queensland border. 
... The fishing village of Batemans Bay, 155 miles south of Sydney on the New South Wales coast, which attracts week­enders and vacationers with an appetite for fish, oysters and crayfish. 
"' Fremantle on the fringe of Western Australia's capital of Perth, site of the Royal Perth Yacht Club's unsuccessful defense of the America's Cup in 1987. It has largely escaped Perth's rampant devel­opment, with the marina area featuring quaint old pubs and shops that now offer coffee as well as drinks and meals. Perth also has three dazzling ocean beaches. 
... Western Australia's inland deserts and Hamersley Mountain range, which erupt into blooms of wildflowers each spring. Many Aboriginal sites are scattered through the region. 
"' A weekly TV show called "Getaway" highlights at least one off-the-beaten-track vacation site in Australia each week. You can find its Website at: 
http://www. getaway. com. au. 
Information attained from the Associated Press Wire 
By Peter James Spielmann Associated Press Writer 

NOOSA. Australia 
People come from around the world to see the 
Sydney Opera House, watch the sunset at Ayers 
Rock and scuba dive at the Great Barrier Reef. 
Aussies who live with these clicheed tourist 
icons encourage foreigners to come and spend 
their money seeing them, while reserving some 
secret hideaways for themselves. 

"You're welcome here, but don't tell anyone 
else about this paradise," a restaurateur in 
Noosa told me as I dined on succulent Moreton 
Bay Bugs, a small lobster-like crustacean. 
Sorry. I n1wer r:ould hiep a secret. 

Most tourists from overseas arc lured to 
Surfers Paradise on the Gold Coast, with its · miles of talc-white sand and Miami Beach-style 
high-rises and so much Japa-nese inlluence that 
it has earnod the nickname of the "Little 
Ginza," or they flock to Cairns, which daily 
sends out a fleet of tourist boats to the Great 
Barrier Reef. Aussies, on the other hand, seek 
out relatively discreet hideaways such as 
Noosa, on Queensland's Sunshine Coast, just 70 
miles north of Brisbane. 

Noosa is favored by Melbourne denizens seek­
ing an escape from the chilly gray winters down 
south. They fancy themselves the sophisticates 
of Australia, upholding a continental European 
tradition. 

So Noosa offers fine dining and plush lodging 
as well as the more usual "Aussie basic" motels 
and backpacker joints. 

Noosa's upscale Hastings Street runs along 
the beach on. Laguna Bay, beloved by visitors 
because it stretches out around the bay and 
faces north, making it one Qj the few places on 
Australia's east coast where you can enjoy the 
sun setting over the water while sipping a fine domestic 
chardonnay and 
sampling local seafood, includ­ing the "bugs." 
.Just about every restaurant here features seafood, such as Roberto's, On tlrn Beach, Cafe la Mondo and the Italian fine-din­ing spot, Undoni's. 
You <:an work up an appetite with a hike in the national park next to Noosa, strolling several miles up gentle trails that branch off to secluded bear.hes, and eventually double back at Noosa llcad, which offers as fine a panorama of the Pacific as any place in the world. Keep an eye out /'or dolphins gamboling in the whitecaps. 
Also watch f'or wild koalas dozing in the crooks of eucalyptus trees, a fairly ram site for a tourist. The easiest way to spot a koala is to look for a crowd of people beneath a tree, pointing cameras upward. 

If you can't wait to eat after your hike, a restaurant called Coco's is just inside the park, offering fare so delicious it's also patronized by "bush turkeys," local wild turknys that barge in to beg for scraps. A waitress will shoo away any bird that gets too forward. 
Noosa Beach can bn vinwnd from quite a dif­ferent perspective -on the swaying back ol' a 

•j~ pi< t xfua;:t:_,,re · 1# *
-~-•-··-~----­
~,...,
.,. 
'$'N 'll¾_,, 
~~---.•_'!/ ff. 
.. .,. 
<;;,~,' ,. 
-:...,. ' ,..-· 

Most tend to forget that Australia Is an island, graced with miles of gorgeous beaches and one o ing are just a few of the great activities one can participate in here in this section of the Souther 

Friday, August 25, 2000 page 13 
ay down under 
r ff" or travelling to watch the Olympics, here are some Australian hot­mation you need to know about how to find them 

camel for a lwo-hour ride through beach and bush that stops for a rest break on the sands north of town. 
Camels were import­ed to Australia's deserts in the 19th century to haul sup­plies to remote c.;om­munities, and help build the telegraph lines and rail­
need be wary of more• than just 
roads. 1\J'ow, 
hundreds of 
thousands of 
thrm roam the Outback. descendants of 
nscapees. The Noosa camels are far froin their 
desf~rt homes. but they seem to enjoy the 
bfiach sand. 
t\fter spending a few days enjoying the heat­ed outdoor pool at thr. delightfully art deco Sheraton No[}sa Hesort on Hastings street, I decided to try a more secluded spot. the Sunshi1w Beach community just south of Noosa. 
It was an inspired choice, I decided, stand­ing at lhe balcony rail of a rented penthouse apartnrnnt, ovflrlooking the nearly dflserted goldPn sands of Sunshine Bear:h. 
t\ handful of' surfers bobbed in the water searching for the right wave, looking like seals at play. Once or twice an hour. a couple 
strolled the bMch hand-in-hand. or a jogger padded past. 
The apartment at La Mer-Sunshine Beach had a fully stocked kitchen, two bedrooms, a sprawling living room with leather furniture under a two-story ceiling and. on thfl second t1oor, a huge sun deck. 
In case the rumble of the surf ever grew tedious (it never did) the place had a stereo with CD player and TV with VCH. 
Out the back door and across the street, l could pick up fresh-baked rolls. newspapers and groceries or choose between five excellent restaurants -including the award-winning Le Soleil. 
This luxury cost less than $90 a day on a three-day stay. A similar deal could be had at Costa Nova. just next door, and better bar­gains could be found at less plush apartments or those not right on the beach. 
If Noosa is the secret Australians wanted to keep, Sunshine Beach would be my own pri­vate hideaway. 
The Asian economic crisis has driven down costs in Australia and opened up bargains for overseas tourists in three ways. Visits by Asian tourists are way down, and many Australians are forsaking domestic vacations in favor of going to Vietnam. Hong Kong or other Asian sites that are now rock-bottom bargains. 
In addition, the value of the Australian dol­lar has fallen, a bonus for American and European visitors spending currencies that are now worth more. 
So if you visit Australia. by all means visit the Opera House, see Ayers Rock (also known as Uluru. its Aboriginal name) and feed the fish at the Great Barrier Reef. 
But consider spending some time among the Aussies at their own oases. Just don't tell them you heard it from me. 

Online tips for travelling Australia 
Sit back and enjoy wild desert scenery from the comfort of a modern train named for a camel, and along the way learn to speak Strine. the slang-rich version of English spoken by Ozzies. That's Australians to you, mate. 
Australia offers a wealth of scenery, friend~ peo­ple and experiences. . 
Here are a few Internet-user friendly sites to help you Northeners out when it comes to the big land down under. 
-www.australia.com 
To learn more about this huge land south of the EQuator. look up the Australian Tourist Commission 
-www.gsr.eom.au/theghan/index.htm 
Among the diversions offered is a railroad named The Ghan, the train operated by th~ Great Southern Railway Ltd. that links Alice Springs ­deep in the dry. rugged outback -to the coastal cities of Adelaide. Sydney and Melbourne. 
The official railroad Website provides a route 
map, timetables and a brief history of the line, 
which generalry follows a route originally mapped 
out wifh the help of camels imported from 
Afghanistan. It also supplies information on the 
four major cities along the line.Clicking on 'The 
Trains" will take you to the railroad's other lines. 
-www.nttc.eom.au/pfm/index.htm. 
The origination point of the train trip, Alice Springs sits in Australia's Northern Territory. where the Tourist Commission maintains Destination Northern Territory. 
-www.adelaide.sa.gov.au/index2.htm -www.tourism.sa.gov.au 
For things to do and see at the other end of the rail trip. try the city of Adelaide and the South Australia Tourist Commission's sites . 
-goaustralia. miningco. com/library/ weekly/blstrine.htm 
Now about that language. 
You've heard about "barbie" for barbecue, and 
"G'Day" for hello. Translations are available in 
About.cam's Australia section. Here you can learn 
all the slangyou'II need to avoid saying the very 
wrong thing and to make sure you understand just 
what the tour guide is t~ying to tell you. 
Information attained from the Associated Press Wire 
Friday, Augusr 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS •. page 14 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Paris leads Reds to 4-game split series -with Phillies 
A,.rndated Press 
Cincinnati. OH 

Steve Parris pitched 6 2/3 strong innings to lead Urn Cincinnati Reds to a 8-3 win over the Philadelphia Phillies. The Heds earned a split of Urn four-game series and won for onlv the third time in their last 10. Philadelphia lost for the eighth tinrn in its lust 11 games. 
Parris !8-141 picked up the win for the Heds allowing two runs -both in thfl first inning. The righthandcr allowed the two runs on nine hits while striking out fivo and walking two. 
Sean Casey led the way for the Reds at the plate, going 2­for-4 with four HBI. including his 10th homer of the season, a two-run shot that scored Barry Larkin in the eighth and accounted for the Phillies final runs. 
Omar Daal ('.~-15) took the loss for the Phill.ies, allowing five runs -thn~e earned ­on eight hits while walking four in six innings of work. It was his 10th loss in his last 1·1 decisions. 
Larkin began the Heds' scoring in the third with a fielder's choice that plated Juan Castro, who had singled. Casey followed with an RBI single to tic the game at 2-2. 
Castro doubled in Dmitri Young in thr fourth to put the Reds up !'or llrn lirst time 3-2. 
The Heds added two morn in the fifth on a Casey sacri­fice fly that scored Brian Hunter and a Young ground 
CLASSIFIEDS 
out that scored Larkin, putting the Reds up 5-2. Larkin scored two runs on the day, going 2-for-4 at the plate. 
In the seventh, Young dou­bled in Michael Tucker, who ran for Dante Bichette, widening the lead to 6-2. Young went 2-for-5 with two HBI. 
The Phillies got on the board first thanks to three consecutive doubles by Doug Glanville. Scott Rolen and Travis Lee. Holen's double plated Glanville and Lee's brought home Rolen to put the Phillies up 2-0. 
Pat Burrell scored the Phillies only other run when Tom Prince grounded into a double play in the eighth, making the score 6-3. 
Bobby Abreu went 4-for-5 for the Phillies and Glanville finished 2-for-5. 
Dodgers 7, Expos 0 
Chan Ho Park worked seven shutout innings, hit his (irst major league home run and drove in two runs to lead the Los Angeles Dodgers past the Montreal Expos at Chavez Ravine. Adrian Beltre chipped in three hits and two RBI for the Dodgers, who have won three straight games. The Expos fell for the fifth time in six tries. 
Devon White added two hits and scored twice for the Dodgers, who keep their slim wild card hopes alive inching a half game closer to <J 1/2 back of the idle Mets. 
Park (13-8) scattered five hits while striking out seven 
and walking one in his second make it 7-0. who singled and stole second consecutive impressive out­Montreal starter Javier with two outs. ing. Gregg Olson worked the Vazquez (8-6) lasted all of The Cardinals scored thren final two innings allowing no four innings yielding six runs more runs in the sixth to hits and striking out four. on five hits while striking out assume control. Lankford 
Park tossed u complete six and walking two. doubled in Clark, and Miko game four-hitter, striking out Matheny singlBd in Tatis and ten in a victory over the Mets Lankford for a 6-1 advantage. in his last start. Cardinals 12, Braves 5 
Edmonds hit his 36th homer The Dodgers scored their Jim Edmonds cracked two in the seventh as St. Louis first run in the third inning home runs and Edgar upped its lead to 7-1 against 
on Park's solo shot. The Renteria also homered as the Terry Mulholland. KoreanOs first home run of St. Louis wasn't done, scor­
St. Louis Cardinals cruised the season traveled 427 feet past the Atlanta Braves at ing four more times in the 
Turner Field.
to give L.A. a 1-0 lead. flighth. Rentoria hit a solo 
Fernando Vina, Will Clark,
Los Angeles added four homer. his 15th, and Vina more in the fourth. Shawn Ray Lankford, Edmonds and scored when Edmonds 
Green opened the inning with Renteria each had two hits reached on a pair of Atlanta his 23rd homer of the season. for St. Louis, which won for errors by Hafael Furcal and Eric Karros singled and the third time in four games. Andres Galarraga. Placido The Cardinals lead the
scored on White's single. On Polanco then lofted a sacrifice the play Montreal rightfielder National League Central by 8 fly, scoring .I .D. Drew for a Wilton GuerreroOs throwing 1/2 games over Cincinnati. 12-1 lead. 
Pat Hentgen (13-9) allowed
error allowed Karros to score The Braves scornd four and move White to third. just one earned run on seven unearned runs in tlrn ninth Beltre then singled home hits over six innings for St. against Gene Stechschultc. Louis and won his third
White. Beltre would come Paul Bako scored when around to sr.ore on Park's HBI straight start. He struck out Matheny, tlHi catcher, single to make it 5-0 Dodgers. one and walked nonP. dropped a throw at the plate 
Karros· single extended his .l avy Lopez homered for as Bako was trying to score hitting streak to nine games. Atlanta, which lost for the on a Walt Wniss single. 
The Expos almost got to second time in three games Furcal reached on a Vina Park in the fifth. Geoff Blum and saw its NL East lead fall error, allowing Keith doubled to lead off the inning, to two games over the idle Lockhart to score. Andruw which was followed by a Jones followed with a two-run
New York Mets. Guerrero walk and an infield St. Louis took a 2-0 lead in single, accounting for the single to Michael Barrett to the first against Atlanta final margin. load the bases. Park closed starter Andy Ashby when Ashby (8-11) lasted 5 1/3 the door though from there Edmonds ripped his 35th innings, allowing six runs -­striking out pinch-hitter homer of the season, scoring five earned --on IO hits. 1111 Fernando Seguignol and Peter Vina, who doubled to lead off struck out one and walked Bergeron to end the inning. the game. one, taking his third straight 
The Dodgers tacked on two Atlanta got a run in the loss. more in the fifth. Karros third when Lopez clubbed his Lopez left the game in the walked and moved to third on 21st home run, a solo shot to seventh inning ·with a bruised White's double to deep right. lead off the frame. forearm after getting hit by a Beltre followed with a single SL Louis scored once in the M a t t M o r r is p i t c h . X -rays to plate Karros. White then fourth to extend to a 3-1 lead. were negative and he is listed scored on Kreuter's single to Renteria singled in Lankford, as.day-to-day. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­MENT CENTER PAID & VOLUNTEER OPPORTU­NITIES 
Earn money and build resume experience while in1eracling with delightful young children. The Early Childhood Development Centers at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame are cur­rently accepting applications from college students for part time employment positions. The hours vary. including MWF 8-9 
a.m. and MWF 11 a.m.-1:30 p.m. If you are interested in applying, please contact Kari Alford, Program Director at ECDC-SMC, at 284­4693 or Thayer Kramer. Program Director al ECDC-ND. for more information and an application The Early Childhood Development Centers are also looking for volun­teers who enjoy youn_g children. ft you would be interested in spending two hours a week reading children's books, building with blocks. and singing songs with children. please contact ECDC-ND at• 284-4693 
N.D. Rental Lakelront home on Magician Lake a11ailaole weekly, or for wknds. 3 bdrms. 1 1/2 baths, deck, screened in porch. This home is nicely furnished and overlooks a beautiful lake and is close to Indian Lake Golf Course. Also in the area are many apple orchards ready for picking. This home will sleep 6. $350 weekends. $850 weekly. 630-964-6620 616-424-3246 In-Home B&B FB wknds sleep up to 8 Some w/tix. 2mi N of ND 219-277-4759 
FOR RENT 
Furnished 1 bdrm apt in good resi­dential area. 10 min drive from ND. Walk-in closet, storage area, parking space. $400/mo. $250 deposit. Postgrad s1udent or facul1y only. 
No smoking, no alcohol. No party. Call 277-0189 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE ANO CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email: mmmren1als@aolcom 232-2595 
FOR SALE 
99 VW Beetle GLS, dk. Blue, 5-spd manual trans, 6 CD changer. air, alloy 16-wheels, 12,aoo miles, exc. Cond. $16,300. 219-258-4454 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size. with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe lrame All new. never used, still in plastic. $235. 235-862-2082 
River Isle exc. Condo on the river in Mishawaka. Beautiful view of the river from living room, dining room, kitchen and bdrm. Also has swim­ming pool, pier, sauna, exercise room and clubhouse. Call Frank 299-1909 Jack 257-1141167 4-6593 
Gold 3-cushion sofa, $200; oval coffee table. glass top, $75; cur­lain/drapery rods, $35 for all; 3 round lamp tables, $40 ea; wing chair, $75; TV table. $20. Can be seen at 17675 Cobblestone Ct. Call 277-1639. 
TV, VCR and MICROWAVE All excellent condition (VCR brand new), must sell this week. Call Peter, 251-0815, or email adam­son.4@nd.edu 
Condo-townhouse 2 bdrms, 1 1/2 bath w/fireplace. All updated Must see. Mid $70s. Call 219-291-8601. 
SPRJNGBREAK 2001 Hiring On-Campus Reps SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, GO FREE! Student Travel Services America·a #1 Student Tour Operator Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas, Europe. Florida 1-800-648-4849 www. gospringbreak com I need tickets to the Purdue game. Will pay top $. Call Chris at 4-3094 
TICKETS 
BUSINESS MAN NEEDS Nebraska tickets GA only. 277-1659 

Need 1O tickets to Purdue for extended family whose never been to a game before. Please call Marianne at 4-0523 
Need as many Purdue tickets as possible and 3 for Texas A&M. Call Kerry 4-3442 
FOR SALE STANFORD. AIR FORCE, BOSTON. Cheap. 654-0168 
WANTED 
ND FOOTBALL TKTS 
289-9280 
SELLING 
NO FOOTBALL TKTS 
251-1570 
VICTORY TKTS 
BUY'SELL'TRAOE 
ND FOOTBALL 
232-0964 
www.victoryt1cke1s.com 

Need two tix to ND vs. W. Virginia, Saturday, Oct. 21 Please call 813-969-3339. 
BUY/SELL NO TICKETS 
273-3911 
ALWA VS BUYING 
NEBRASKA 271-9330 
TICKET MART BUY/SELUTRADE ALL GAMES 271-9330 
I 

ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M.-232·2378 P M.·288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M.-232-2378 P.M.-288-2726 
NEED: Three tickets to Texas A&M for family. Call John, 4-2795 
Football tickets -want to purchase 4 tickets to the Stanford game on October 7th. The seats must be in the area of the Notre Dame band. Call Anthony Russo, 1-908-688·3232 
NEED 2 NEBRASKA TICKETS WILL PAY $100 FOR EACH CALL MATT AT 4-3319 
BUYING/SELLING ND FOOTBALL TICKETS (219) 289-8048 
FOR SALE 6 Nebraska Tix (219) 232-5485 

Looking to trade Grad student ticket book for Senior tickets to sit by friends. Will pay$$ Call 287-2433 
PERSONAL 
I need your help! I'm a '92 ND grad and lost my year­book in a flood. If you know anyone who has a '92 yearbook and would not mind parting with it, please call me at 830-772-5956 or email at esquiv­ele@mindspring.com Thank you, Cristina Ortiz 
such a long column such a long night who's our favorite drum major? tough question jackie lynn knows -and she's 
jealous way to go T Natalie • glad your feeling better If you had been sick who would 
have saved my life on Wednesday? Who's excited for 8:30? Lora • hope the biology, physiolo­
gy, anatomy, science whatever was a blast this afternoon 
Did you buy soap? You know the rule -not until the end of the semester 
how much fun is a nice roommate? not that I'm implying anything. Erin are you reading this? Miss me 
yet? Sean Kevin and Chris -please be careful a_nd don't cause too much 
trouble on your way • I would like my car in one peice. please please please M · is this better than an email? 
D-I know you love the beach. Finally. 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, Augu:;t 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
GOLF 
. 

Woods shows no signs of slowing in NEC Invitational 
Aswciate<l Press 
AKKON. Ohio 
Anyone who thought Tiger Woods might havu a lntdown after winning his third straight major only had to sec the scowl on his face. 
Or th1\ 64 on his scon:carrl. 
Four days after his draining playoff victory in the PCA Championship, Wonds rnsumcd his rol!rntlcss domi­nance Thursday by flirting with the coursP n~cord al Fircslonc and settling !"or a one-stroke h\ad in the NEC Invilational. 
"Tim goal of tlrn week is to win," Woods said. "When I'm not playing is thP time lo rest. When I'm playing this week. it's timn to work, and I'm trying LO get mysolf in position to win come Sunday afternoon." 
Ile certainly can't argue with the start. nvnn ii' hP-wasn't happy with his scorn. 
Wood, 7 und~r through his first 12 holes. bog(•yed two of his last three holes but still managt,d his lowest first­round score of the vcar and led Jim l;uryk by one stroke.in the $5 million World Golf Championship event. 
The NEC is for players from the Prcsidnnts Cup and U.S. Hyder Cup team, plus the top 12 Europeans from the European tour money list. 
Phil Mickelson and Justin Leonard were in a large group at 4-under 66 on a Firestone course softened by overnight rain. Ernie Els and Jose Maria Olazabal were among those at 67. In all, 21 or the 37 players broke par. 
At the top, once again, was Woods. 
"l know I've had trouble after a win, r.oming back and playing extremely, extremely well like that," Furyk said. "And then to do it after the year he's had. But he's had a little more experi­ence after those win,1, t.oo. He knows how to handle it a lot belier than I do. It obviously has not bothAred him." 
For Woods, it was his 28th consecu­tive round of par or better, dating to a first-round 73 at the Byron Nelson Classic in May. That matches the longest streak since the PCA Tour began keeping such a statistic in 1980. 
Still. Woods was more interested in how he played than what he scored. That much was clear on the Iirst hole when disgust was written on his face after his pitching wedge from 116 yards wound up 20 feet behind the hole. 
But it took him only five holes 10 take the lnad, starting with a 6-iron from 206 yards on the par-5 second holA that stopped 9 inches short of the cup for a tap~in eagle. While the gallery started murmuring about a possible 59, Woods was just trying to salvage his round. 
"I drove it terrible on the back nine," he said. "I was able to keep it on tho property, which is good, but that's about it. Consequently. I nidn't shoot the scores ( wanted to shoot." 
While his thrilling win at Valhalla gave Woods four of the last live majors, he has never played particularly well in his first tournament back from a major. A year ago, he went from the PG/\ to the International and tied for 37th. And after his first two major championship victories this year -the U.S. Open and British Open -he finished out of the top 10. 
If Woods was trying to guard against a letdown, so was the tournament. The buzz from the gallery was significantly less than it was last week, which wasn't lost on Woods. 
"It was nice, without anyone scream­ing and yelling, someone stretching their vocal chords,"'he said. The last time he could remem­ber it that quiet was when he played a prac­tice round in the British Open at 5:30 a.m. 
That didn't ffi('an he didn't give them some­thing to cheer about. Even the times ho got in trouble, he usually came up with a heroic save. On the 13th. his ball came to rest on a tree root, the second time in three weeks that. has happened. 
Woods practiced bit­ting the top of a leaf, preparing to pick the ball clean. He hit a moon shot ovPr the trees and only chipped the top of the root. The ball landed in a green­side bunker, and he blasted out to 6 foet to save his par. 
But as Woods threat­encd to run awav early, he instead ran into trouble. After deciding to lay up on the 625-yard 16th, he put a sand wedge into the back bunker, bare­ly got it out and had to 

make a 6-footer for Tiger Woods has amassed an impressive portfolio of bogey. seven wins and $6.9 million in PGA prize money this year. After driving into the 
rough on the 18th, his second shot hit a peers would love to have. He. already tree and went behind him. He managed has won seven times this year and $6.9 to reach the green from there and two­million on the PGA Tour, breaking his putted for bogey. Then, it was straight earnings record from last year. At this to the range to work out his problems. .rate, he will shatter his record scoring 
Woods has troubles that most of his average, too. 

.... 


-

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 25, 2000 
GOLF 

Captain Venturi leaves Leonard off U.S. squad 
Associared Press 
AKHON, Ohio 
.Justin Leonard, who holr.d that 45-foot birdie putt that clinched America's comeback vict.ory in the Hyder Cup, thought he 
had a 
decent chance al making the Pres­idr.nts Cup as a cap­t a i n ' s pick. 

Leonard
But be had no problems being left off a U.S. team for the first time since 1995. 
Ken Venturi used his two selections on Loren Hoberts, 11th in the standings, and Paul Azinger, the surprise pir.k at No. 24. Leonard agreed with both picks. 
" I l ' s 
pretty 

hard to "/ was in a position to make 
their love 
question that," hc said. "If I had been picked. I think it w o u I d have been fine, too. I was in position to make the team th is 

Favoring Firestone 
How good is Firestone Country Club'' Jim Furyk loves the place, and he has n,wer played particularly well on it. 
Firestone has been part of the PGA Tour since 1954. But in 2002, its only significant tournament will be thA PGA Seniors Championship, because the NEC Invitational will be played at Sahalee out­side Seattle. 
"l 'd like to see as many tournaments here as possf­ble," Furyk said. "And you're looking at a guy who has not played well here before -so I like it." 
If Furyk could choose where to play big tourna­ments, he would go with Las Vegas. where he has won the past lwo years. 
Spice Boys 
Lee Westwood and Darren Clarke. once known as the "Spice Boys" on the European t o u r because of 
the team this year, and I for high liv­just haven't played well. ing, share 
something

There's no sour grapes. I 
else in com­just should have played mon. Both better. .. won tourna­ments by beatingJustin Leonard Tiger Woods golfer down the 
year, and I just haven't played well. There's no sour grapes. I just should have played better." 
L1rnnard was a runner-up in consecutive weeks at the Memorial and the Kemper, but he hasn't finished higher than 15th the rest of the year. 
llis play has been so bad that Leonard said he wasn't using the Presidents Cup as motivation. 
"My main focus ·was to play better," he said. 
Leonard has played on every Presidents Cup and Hyder Cup team since 1996, although he has yet to win a singles match outright. 
Despite the cup-clinching pull on the 17th al Tho Country Club, he still wound up with a halvr. against .Jose M;iria Olazabal. 
Interested in joining womens rowing? Come to an 

Activity Room 2 • Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
information ses-•
•
sion Sunday, • 
Information Meeting Sunday, JAugust 27, 2:30pm
• 
-August 27th at : Activity Room 2 -Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 5 p.m. in Loftus. : 
Register in Advance at RecSports -$39 fee Experienced and : Sign-Ups Begin Monday, August 28, 8:00am 
novices rowers 
are welcome. 
st.retch. 

Clarke beat Woods head-to-head in the Match Play Champion­ship finals at La Costa. 
Westwood  came  from  
behind  and  beat him  in  
Germany.  

Clarke, who has gotten to know Woods through swing coach Hutch Harmon, said he left Woods a message on his answering machine after the British Open. 
"The better you play, the better it's make me look," he told him. "So keep on going." 
Westwood, however, seemed indifferent about ending Woods four-year streak of protecting 54-hole leads. 
"I know if I play my best. I'm capable of beating him," Westwood said. "I've proved it to all of' you, or anybody olse who is looking into it and thinking about it. There's no r.dge to that." 
Van de Velde grabs early Open lead 
Associated Press 
HENO, Nev. 
Jean Van do Velde bogeyed his first hole but later reeled off four straight birdies to grab a share of the early first-round lead Thursday in the PGA Tour's Reno-Tahoe Open. 
Van de Velde finished with a 5-under par 67. 
"It went very interesting, like every day. I had some great shots and some shock­ers," said Van de Velde, the Frenchman who became famous after he squandered a three-stroke lead on the last hole of the 1999 British Open. 
'Tm pleased. I'd take five under every round of my life if I could." 
Steve Flesch. who was in the same group, chipped in for an eagle on one par 5, but bogeyed two others to finish in a lie for the early club­house lead at 67 with Van de Ve Ide and Emlyn Aubrey. Rocco Mediate, suffering from a sore neck after his chair collapsed at the PGA Championship last weekend, and Tim Herron were one 

"ft went very interesting like every day. I had some good shots and some shockers." 
Jean Van de Velde golfer 
stroke back at 68. 

Bob May, the runner-up to Tiger Woods last weekend, was among six players two strokes back at 69. About half of field, including Spanish star Sergio Garcia, was still to tee off Thursday afternoon at the Montreux Golf and Country Club. 
If not for a change in quali­fying rules on the PGA European Tour, Van de Velde and Garcia would have been playing this week at the World Golf Championships­NEC Invitational in Ohio by way of their place on last year's Ryder Cup. 
Garcia said Wednesday he thought it was unfair to make the change -rewarding players who spent more time on the European tour. But Van de Velde said the move was supported by most tour members. 
"If I wanted to be in the NEC I knew what I had to do. I had to play moro or better in Europe," said Van de Velde. who is splitting his season on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean. The man who hit into a creek and triple bogeyed the last hole at Carnoustie last year said he continues to be pleased and surprised with the sympa­thetic support hn gets f'rom fans. "Everywhere I go, peo­ple felt for me so they have been nice and supportive. The reception is so good. It helps," he said. Fans seem to appreciate his approach to the game, he said. "Goll' is one thing and life is another," Van de Velde said. 
"I try to do as good as I can but at the end of the day. whether I shoot a 61 or a 52 or an 82, I don't think the planet Earth is going to stop spinning." 
Van de Vclde. starting on the par-four I 0th, hit into a grecnside bunker and bogeyed his l'irst hole. "I thought, this is not a good a start," he said. 
NFL 

ABC works out kinks in preseason 
Associated Press 
Don Ohlmeyer is like an NFL coach who uses the preseason to check out his personnel and work out kinks in the game plan. 
The producer of ABC's "Monday Night Football" acknowledges there still is some work to be done before his show's regular season kicks off Sept. 4. 
"There are a number of things that we want to work on," said Ohlmeyer, who was at the show in the 1970s and returns this year with a hand­picked cast. "The first telecast, we were at about 40 percent, the second telecast at about 50. Now we're about 65 percent to where I want to be. 
"l think tho basic coverage of the game is really quite good." A look at the three preseason 

games reveals some positives and negatives: 
Al "Do You Believe in Miracles" Michaels is still at the top of his game as a play-by­play announcer, but the cama­raderie -giggling doesn't count -with Dennis Miller and Dan Fouts is often lacking. Michaels should refrain from trying to match Miller's wit. and might want to excise "baby" from his vocabulary. 
The show's overwhelming effort to be hipper than hip ­embodied most glaringly by Miller -was apparent in the scoreboard graphic Monday identifying the home team as "Fins." Fans can only hope they wouldn't try to squeeze "Monsters of the Midway"on there if the Chicago Bears were playing. Miller, whose "Dennis Miller Live"gets a plug l"rom Michaels each broadcast, still doesn't seem to be sure when to chime in. though his timing has improved with each outing and he certainly can be riotously funny. He could stand to drop yells of' "Yeah!"or "That's my guy!"on big plays. 
Miller also will lose a lot of material now that the presca­son is over, because much of his football commentary has been about how players are fighting for rost('.ff spots. 
Who knows what will happ(m when there's a meaningful game that's tight in the fourth quarter'? 
With about six minutes left in Monday's game between Green Bay and Miami, Fouts was drowned out by tho clowning Miller and Michaels. "Why would I break in with a football note? I was just rmnarking to myself while I was watching the game by myself over hnre," Fouts said, tonguo-in-chenk to be sure, but tnllingly. 

......................................,-----·-------------------­
: Beginner Jazz Dance 
: & : ~odern D;;lince
u 

Classes Meet:Mondays 8: l 5pm-9:30pm 
Thursdays 8: l 5pm-9:30pm 

•
• 
•
•
• Classes Begin Monday, September 4 No Experience Necessary. 
• 
••• ;e~~
• 
: 
•.• :
• 
• 
• : • • : • • 
Hours7 
Lunch 
Mon-Fri 
113111 
-zpm
Dinner 
Mon-Thu, 
Sun 
Spm-9pni 
Fri-Sat 
5pm-9:30pm


TH A I RESTAURANT C 0 L
"The first Thai restaurant in town. We F 
A

invite you to try world rlass cuisine, Thai cuisine, the delicate art X 
211 
D L 
A 
N. MAIN S ST. A 
L L 
~ s'\:· E 

.....________________________---J
..6601 
C\\\c,r,.

that descends from primogenitor. Thai 
v,\

cuisine is designed to excite your five senses; sweet, sour, salty, spicy, and [nuw]natural." 211 N. Main St. 
South Bend, IN

Now Hiring 

Friday, August 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
AMERICAN [EAGUE 
Hill, Pettitte lead Yankees in come-from-behind 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Glenallen Bill homered for the 12th time in 68 at-bats since joining the Ya11ke0-s, and Andy Prttitte won his seventh straight start as New York beat the Texas llangcrs 8-7 Thursday. 
Thr Yankers once again played sloppily, committing a pair of errors and a run-scoring passNI ball. but they ovrrcame a 4-1 deficit and maintained their domination or the Hangers. beating them for the 10th time in 12 meetings this year. New York is 29-10 against Texas since losing the opc-ner of thn 1 ()% Al. playoffs. 
Pcttitte (16-6), second to Toronto's David Wells (18-5) in wins among AL pitchPrs, wasn't sharp, allowing a season-high seven runs -five narlled ­and 10 hits in six-plus innings. 
But Texas starter :'vtatt Perisho (2-7) was worse, getting hammernd for night runs -his season high -and eight hits in three-plus innings and losing to l'dtitte for the second time in an 11-day span. 
Down by three, New York took a 6-4 lead in an ugly five­run third. Hill, Jose Canseco and Jorge Posada hit consecu­tive run-scoring singles to tie it, and PRrisho made a bad deci­sion, throwing too late ·to third on Chris Turner's sacrifice, leaving the bases loaded. 
Scott Brosius, in a 3-f'o,--31 
slump, struck out and Clay 
Bellinger hit a bouncer to third 
basnman Scott Shcldon. who 
threw homP only to S(!C catcher 
JU. Waszgis straddle thc plate, 
not putting a l'oot on it, as 
Cansnco scored the go-ahead 
run . .Jose Vizcaino's RBI 
grounder madfl it 6-4. 
llill. acquired July 20 from 
Sophomores & Juniors! 
$CHOLAR$HIP$ AVAILABLE NOW! 
Non-competitive Scholarships -$17,480 annually, are available for select majors for sophomores and for ALL juniors! 
AFROTC :. Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
the Chicago Cubs, hit a two-run homer in the fourth to chase Perisho. Hill's AL-leading 10th home run of August. 
Rafael Palmciro, 4-for-5 with three RR!s, hit run-scoring sin­gles in the fourth and seventh, and Turner's passed ball on a .Jason Grimsley pitch in the sev­enth allowed the Rangers to close within a run. 
After pinch-hitter Tino Martinez took a bases-loaded called third strike from Matt Venafro, rnding the eighth, Mariano Rivera came in for the third straight day and got three outs for his 27th save in 32 chances, moving New York (70­
54) a season-high 16 games over .500. 
Hivera caught Chad Curtis' liner back to the mound to start the ninth. After Palmeiro sin­gled, pinch-runner Scarborough Green was caught stealing by Posada, who moved from first base to catcher in the\ ninth. 
Texas, which finished a 2-6 road trip, went ahead in the first on Palmeiro's run-scoring single and Gabe Kapler's HBT grounder -Kapler just beat Vizcaino's throw from second to avoid an inning-ending double play. 
Bellinger hit a sacrifice fly in the second, but the Rangers went ahead 4-1 in the third on an RBI single by former-Yankee Ricky Ledee and a run-scoring throwing error by Vizcaino. 
Tigers 10, Mariners 3 
Nothing seems to be bugging the Detroit Tigers these days. 
Juan Encarnacion and Dean 
Palmer homered and Deivi Cruz 
drove in three runs as the 
Tigers, who started out 9-23, 
reached the .500 mark by beat­
ing the Seattle Mariners. 
There was no recurrence of 
the insect swarms that plagued Comerica Park the night bPfore. Though a few of the flying ants were visible, there were no interruptions and the 36,885 fans could concentrate on watching the Tigers win for the 11th time in their last 14 games. 
On Wednesday night, thou­sands of bugs descended on the ballpark during the first inning. Many spectators left their seats, and a few Detroit coaches and pitches b~ilt a fire in tho bullpen before the ants left in the third. 
Damion Easley hit a two-run double for the Tigers (63-63), who won two of three from Seattle to finish a 5-2 homes­tand. Detroit started the day 5 1/2 games behind Cleveland in Lhe AL wild-card chase. 
The Tigers are 54-40 since May 10. They're 25-17 since the All-Star break, with the wins tying the New York Yankees for most in the AL in that span. 
Seattle has lost 10 of its last 11, including five of six against Detroit. The Mariners, who fin­ished a 1-5 road trip, entered Thursday 3 1/2 games ahead of Oakland in the AL West. 
Mariners manager Lou Piniella was ejected in the bot­tom of the eighth by plate umpire Brian Runge for appar­ently arguing balls and strikes. 
Brian Moehler (11-7) over­came Edgar Martinez's two-run homer in the first inning and extended his career-best win­ning streak to five games, also a season-high for the Tigers. He gave up two runs on six hits in 5 1-3 innings. 
Moehler exited with a 4-2 lead in the sixth after his only two walks loaded the bases with two out. Matt Anderson came on and got Raul Ibanez on a grounder to first. 

.Jamie Moyer (11-8) lost his fifth straight start, giving up four runs on eight hits in six innings. He has an 11.07 ERA during his losing streak. 
The Mariners took a quick 2-0 lead when Al Martin led off the game with a single and, two outs later, Martinez homered to right-center. It was Martinez's 31st home run of the season and second in two days. 
But Encarnacion's one-out solo homer was the first of three straight hits that started a three-run home half. Palmer hit a sacrifice fly after singles from Bobby Higginson and .Juan Gonzalez, and Cruz had an RBI single. 
Cruz made it 4-2 with another run-scoring single in the fifth, 
Palmer hit his team-leading 25th homer off Brett Tomko for a 5-2 lead in the seventh. 
John Olerud hit a sacrifice fly in thr Seattle eighth, but the Tigers put the game away with a five-run home half featuring Easley's two-run double and RBI singles by Gonzalez and Cruz. 
Orioles 5, White Sox 3 
Ken Hill lasted only 2 1-3 innings in his White Sox debut and Brook Fordyce drove in three runs against his former team as the Baltimore Orioles beat Chicago. 
Hill (5-8), released earlier this month by the Anaheim Angels, was signed to a minor league contract by the White Sox. He was added to Chicago's roster before the game to give the team's beleaguered starting rotation a boost. 
But Hill was shaky from the outset and gave up six runs on five hits and four walks. 
Chicago's lead over Cleveland 
in the AL Central was sliced to 
6 1/2 games with the Indians 
facing Oakland on Thursday 
night. 
Fordyce, traded from the 
White Sox to the Orioles last 
month, hit a two-run single and 
a sacrifice fly. 
Jose Mercedes (9-5) allowed 
six hits in 6 2-3 innings. lie held 
the White Sox without a hit 
until Carlos Lee's one-out single 
in the fifth. 
Trailing 6-0, the White Sox 
broke through in the sixth on 
Jose Valentin's RBI single. 
Herbert Perry's run-scoring 
double and an RBI single by 
Chris Singleton in the seventh 
finished Mercedes, who is 6-1 
since the All-Star break. 
Jerry Hairston hit an RBI dou­
ble in the Orioles ninth. 
Charles Johnson, traded to 
the White Sox in the deal that 
included Fordyce, had a sacri­
fice fly in the bottom of the 
ninth, It marked the first 
earned run allowed by rookie 
reliever Ryan Kohlmeier, who 
had made 10 appearances 
spanning 12 innings. 
Hill walked Jeff Conine and 
Chris Richard in the second 
before giving up a two-run, 
two-out double to .235 hitter 
Mark Lewis. 
Brady Anderson walked in the 
third and scored on Melvin 
Mora's triple high off the left­
field wall. Albert Belle singled 
to make it 4-0 and another sin­
gle by Conine and walk to 
Richard loaded the bases and 
finished Hill. Fordyce greeted 
reliever Mark Buehrle with a 
two-run single. 
The White Sox had second . and third and no outs in the 
eighth but managed just a sin­
gle run on Frank Thomas' sac­
rifice fly. 

Buy /Sell/Trade 
Nebraska Wanted 
Preferred Tickets 
234-5650 
-------------------------------------· 
Have you thought about  
teaching Religion and  
becoming a Catechist?  
11ml  
~  
* Do you enjoy working with children or adolescerus?  
• Can you give one-two hours ofyour time each week?  
• Do you welcome the challenge to artieulate and share yourfaith?  
• Would you like to be a valuabl4 asset to a local parish?  
• Would you like to work towards catechist certification?  I  
If you can answer .YES. to any or all of these questions,  
come find out more about being a Religion Teacher.  
Call .John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163  
I  Important Information Meeting: Wednesday, August 30, 5:00-6:00 P.M. Foster Room of LaFortune Student Center  I I I I I I I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  

L---------------------------------------•-•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 25, 2000 
NFL 
Falcons finish off Jaguars, 31-20 
Associated Press 
.JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

Tony Brackens and Tony Bosclli aren't tho only .Jacksonville .Jaguars who need to hurry themsolves into play­ing shape. 
.Jacksonville's starting off',•ns11 got another sobrring dos1~ of' reality Thursday night in a 31-20 nxhibitinn loss to Urn Atlanta Falcons. 
Chris Chandler connected with Tr.ranee Mathis on a pretty 37-yard scoring play as tho Falcons 14· 1) closed their preseason with a victory and a confidnncH boost for their hurting dnfMse. 
.Jamal Anderson didn't fare as well. Continuing the road back from last season's kne11 injury. Lhn Falcons running back ruslw<l for 18 yards on s11v1m carrins. lle's averaging 
I.5 yards pnr carry this pro­scason. 
Mark Brunell of .Jacksonville ('.i-1) complctf'd all live of his passos for 111 yards. But he tnok a bnating behind a line thal struggled, even when Bosclli. recovering from a knee injury, was in for his first 10 snaps of the prescason. 
Brackens, expnctcd to sign a six-yoar contract Friday, rnturncd to the defense and had four tackles in 10 plays. 
But Jacksonville's biggest concerns are on offense. 
One disturbing sign came on the play after Bosclli exited. With Todd Fordham at left tackh1. Brunell took a vicious helmf'l-to-lrnlmet hit from Falcons end Patrick Kerney, who rushnd in untouched. 
ll was one of four hard hits the .Jaguars quarlerback took over just a quarter. and it was almost identical to what he sul'fored through last week against Kansas City. 
Bosolli is no sure thing to return to the lineup when thH rr.gular season starts Sept. 3. Neither is cirntcr .John Wade (foot). Hunning back Fred Taylor (kn1w) and right tackle I.non Snarcy (quadriceps) will be out. 
Without them, the Jaguars ruslwd f'or only 21 yards in the first half and managed just thrnn p'oints. On their best scoring threat. the offensive lino was stymied twice inside the 4-yard line. 
And make no tnislakc, the Falcons aren't exactly the 
Please 
recycle 
The Obseruer. 

Monsters of the Midway. 
Injuries and offscason defec­tions forced coach Dan Reeves to cobblt~ togflthM a defensivfl line that consisted of only one starter playing in position, right tackle Shane Dronett. 
Thn Falcons controlled the line and the game while the first teams wcrn in. Three big passns from Brunell to Jimmv Smith -none of which led to scores -accounted for more than half of the 199 first-half yards they surrendered. 
Chandler went 10-for-18 for 124 yards in the first half. Mathis made a great play on the touchdown. nudging Aaron Beasley away to create space, then making the catch in tho corner of the end zone. 
The race for Atlanta's back­up quarterback spot was more-or-less decided when Danny Kanell fractured his right ring finger in the Lhird quarter. Tony Graziani entered and went 6-for-9 for 83 yards and one touchdown. 
.Jaguars receiver Alvis Whitted continued his solid preseason. beating Falcons corner Michael Booker for a 68-yard touchdown from backup quarterback Jamie Martin. 
Jacksonville's first-round draft pick, receiver R. Jay Soward, had to be helped off the field with 15 seconds remaining after taking a nasty blow to his left ankle. 
Bills 16, Eagles 12 
Donovan McNabb spent most of the night wearing a base­ball cap and Rob .Johnson didn't even dress for the game. 
It was an uneventful evening for the starting quarterbacks as the Ruffalo Bills beat the Philadelphia Eagles in the pre­season finale for both teams. 
Philadelphia's McNabb was on the field for just four plays, completed one pass and threw an interception. Johnson, meanwhile. wore shorts, stood on the sidelines and joked around with teammates. Alnx Van Pelt, Johnson's replace­ment. was 15-of-28 for 163 yards, and rookie Sammy Morris ran for 101 yards and one touchdown to lead the Bills. 
Steve Christie's 30-yard field goal with 8 :4 7 remaining lifted Buffalo to its third victory in four games. Christie was helped off the field after get­ting hit on a 33-yarder with 27 seconds left. Trainers exam­ined his kicking leg, and he had lo be helped to the locker after the game. The extent of the injury wasn't immediately known. 
David Akers had field goals of 42, 33, 42 and 45 yards for Philadelphia (1-3). But Akers, who made a 48-yard game­winning field goal last week, missed a 36-yarder with 4:51 remaining that would have given the Eagles a lead. 
McNabb, who threw three first-half touchdowns in last week's 34<12 victory over Tennessee, threw an intcrccp· tion on the first play of the team's opening drive, and failed to move the offense on the next series. After Corey Moore blew past Jon Hunyan for a sack, McNabb's evening was over. Meanwhile, Ruffalo coach Wade Phillips elected to sit Johnson rather than risk an injury to his starter on the artificial turf at Veterans Stadium. 
Doug Flutie, .Johnson's back· up, is nursing a groin injury, and also didn't play. Johnson threw three touchdowns in Buffalo's :H-27 victory over the St. Louis Rams last week, and had a 125.0 rating in three exhibition games. Morris' 6-yard run with 33 seconds left in the first half capped a seven-play, 62-yard drive and gave Buffalo a 10-6 lead. Morris, who had four carries entering the game, ran 27 times. He also had one catch for 30 yards. 
A 27-yard over-the-shoulder catch by Kwame Cavil set up the touchdown. 
Koy Detmer replaced McNabb and was O-for-4. Former Notre Dame star Ron Powlus, fighting for a roster spot with Philadelphia, was 8­of-15 for 74 yards. 
Travis Brown was 6-of-9 for 123 yards. Brian Mitchell, who tortured the Eagles for years as a returner with Washington, had his longest punt return of the preseason, a 29-yarder in the first quar­ter. 1-Ie also recovered a fum­ble for Philadelphia, and ran for 28 yards on two carries. Allen Rossum fumbled away a punt that would have given Philadelphia the ball at their 40 with 3:23 left. 
._ -. -•·--­
' 
-.... 
AUGUST 31 Courts 
6 on 6* 

Thursday, Stepan 
Co-Rec 
*Minimum of Two Females on the Court at all Times Register a Team in Advance at RecSports Deadli.ne: Wednesday, August 30 at 6:00 PM 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 
Authorities charge Rison for bad checks 
a warrant nationwidn, but if

. Charges mark 
he's arrested in California.latest in list of the taxpayers of Missouri legal struggles for would have to pay to trans­
port him back hnre."

Raiders receiver 
The checks were all written 
Associated Press 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Oakland Raidnrs receiver Andre Rison was charged Thursday with four counts of passing bad checks totaling $158,000, the Jackson County prosecutor's office said. 
On Thursday night in Oakland, Hison caught two passes for 49 yards as the Raiders beat Seattle 20-0 
in their pre­"I don't know anything Wis., site of sea son Kansas
about it. Right now I'm a
finale. City's train­Afterward. Raider and those things ing camp. In he wasn't will be resolved. " the citation, talking officers about the allngnd that
Andre Rison
charges. he lied to "I don't Raiders receiver them about 
know any­thing about it," said Rison, who signed with the Raiders on Monday. "Right now J'm a Haider and those things will be resolved." 
The alleged incidents took place between June 1998 and December 1998, while Rison. 33, was with the Kansas City Chiefs. 
Ifconvicted, Rison could get five years in prison. · 
Prosecutors hope Rison will surrender when he comes to Kansas next month for trial on theft charges there. There are no immediate plans to arrest him in California, said David Baker, .Jackson County's chief deputy prose­cutor. 
"This warrant covers Kansas and Missouri," Baker said. "Normally, you open up 
Ki Aikido 
I~ 
,I 'I 

Demonstration 
~ August 28 · 7:30pm Rockne 219 

Register in Advance at AecSports Class Fee is $19 Call 1-6100 for More Information 
R~~ 
Look for Observer classifieds online starting September 1st! 
Mondays -7:30-9:30 
Beginning September 4 
to the same jewelry store, according to the complaint. In the complaint. the store owner said Hison bought jnw­elry from him on six occa• sions. The charges cover the last four. 
Thursday's chargos are the latest in a serins of' legal struggles for Bison, waived by the Chir.l's on Aug. 14 af't11r three ynars. 
One week before being cut by the Chinfs, Hison was cited 
by policn in 
Biver Falls, 
his name following a bar light. 
Rison allegedly gave his name to onn of'llcer as" Brork Middlebrook," but one of' tlrn other oflicers recognized him as Rison. 
The offense is not consid­ered criminal; Rison was fined $219.50 and has an appearance in municipal court set for Sept. 13. 
Bison is also accused of stealing a $1,000 tape recorder from an Overland Park, Kan., businnss. That trial is set for next month in Olathe, Kan. 
If Hison docs not return to Kansas, Baker said, a nation­wide warrant would likely bn issued. The Raiders are scheduled to play at Kansas City on Oct. I 5. 

Friday, August 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Fractured right foot Weinke returns to Seminole line-up 
sidelines Henson 
Associated Press 
ANN /\HBOR. Mich. 

Drnw Henson. who paid his duPs as an understudy for two y«'ars, \\'iii havr, to wait a few morP weeks h<'-forr. he'll hP 
!\lich-igan's 
starting quartnr­bark. 
Tim 6­l'oot-4, 215­p o u n d j u n i o r underwent 


s u r g P r Y Henson Thursday for a frac­
lun1d right foot and will miss at least the team's Sept. 2 game against Bowling Green. coach Lloyd Carr said. 
Doctors told the coaching staff lhat players aro typically out 3-6 wneks for a fracture of this type. 
"It's going to come down to how fast il heals," Carr said. "lle's not going to play until he feels ready." 
Henson broke the foot Wednesday while he was trying to avoid a rushi_ng defensive back during practice. 
He planted his right foot and changPd direction. 
"Is anybody happy about it at Michigan? No.... It's a very dis­a pp oi nting thing. There's no question." Carr said. "lie was looking forward to this point in his career ... to be the starting quarterback at Michigan." 
.John Navarre, a 6-6, 228­pound sophomore from Cudahy. Wis.. will become the starter, Carr said. 
"l have tremendous confidence in John Na\arre. He'll step in and do a great job until Drew returns," Carr said. "John Navarre, just like Drew ... is going t.o be surrounded by a gooµ football team. 
"I think he's got all the quali­tiPs you want in a quartrrhack," he said of Navarre. "lle's hard­working. he's tough. He's a dedi­cated guy. He'll make some mis­takes, but any guy that's playing for the first tirmi will make some mistakes." 
Carr said any time a player gets hurt it affects the team, but the game plau will rnmain the same. 
Navarre is looking forward to the opportunity to play, even if the starting spot came a little sooner than he expected, Carr said. 
"He's got a great arm. There arcn 't any throws he can't make," lrn said. "He's a guy who can get the ball out there." 
Carr said it's uncertain who the No. 2 quarterback will be while l lcnson is out. 
Carr said Henson had two good weeks of training camp, and that will be an advantage for him when he comes back. Carr said he didn't think Henson's mobility would be affected. 
Henson spent this past sum­mer playing baseball with the Cincinnati Reds' Double-A club in Chattanooga after he was traded from the New York Yankees organization. 
Henson, who played behind Tom Brady his first two seasons, is 68-of-137 fo r 800 yards and six touchdowns in 18 games for the Wolverines. They were 10-2 last season and are ranked No. 6 in the AP preseason poll. 
Associated Press 
Chris Weinke is normally unflappable. 
One thing that gets him riled up, though, is the perception he has an advantage over college rivals becausn of his agl"'. 
Nonsense, 1.he 28-year-old florida State quarterback said. 
"Lut me tell you something," Weinke was saying one day in a hotel lobhy in Hot Springs, Va. "I was a~vay from the game for seven years. That's a disadvan­tage. Sure it's an advantage to go through some of the adversi­ty I've gone through. but put yourself in my shoes." 
OK. How about· being a Heisman Trophy contender who led the Seminoles _to a perfect season and national champi­onship by throwing for 3,103 yards and 25 touchdowns? How about"an NFL future? 
"l\oi t.hat, but how I came to where we are now," he said, the wrinkles now showing on his forehead. 
"I committed to the school 10 years ago, and live years ago I was still trying to hit a curve­ball," Weinke says, referring to his decision to leave Florida State and sign a $400,000 deal to play baseball in the Toronto Blue Jays system. 
"I came back because I want­ed to get my degree and play football. There were no guaran­tees about playing. I got the starting job because someone got hurt. Then, I laid on an operating table for six hours when someone said I was cen­timeter away from not being able to walk. ... For someone to tell me, 'You shouldn't be play­ing college football, you should move on with your life,' that's crazy. 

"He knows how to talk to ·em. He knows how to rally 'em. I don't want to put too much pres­sure on him, but that might be the best thing we got _going. " 
Bobby Bowden Seminole head coach 
'Tm doing something I love to do. Maybe some people are jeal­ous because that's the only way I could think of someone saying, 'Why would you do that?'" 
Wcinkc sat back on the couch. his rant over. He was back to his calm, cool, collegiate self. 
"Never in my wildest dreams," he began, "would I have thought I'd be sitting here talking about trying to go 13-0 after going 12-0 and winning the national championship." · 
And that's exactly what Weinke plans to do starting Saturday night, when Florida State opens the season against BYU in the Pigskin Classic in Jacksonville, Fla. 
The 6-foot-5, slimmed-down­to 229-pounder spent a care­free summer of weight-watch­ing, workouts and golf. Didn't even have a second thought about his decision to wait another year for the NFL. 
For the first time since he returned to Florida State, there were no tough times to over­come -no months of rehab­bing from the late-season neck injury against Virginia in '98, and no cram courses when he was tossed in as the starter after Dan Kendra went down with a season-ending knee injury prior to the '98 scasjon. 
"This is the funnest I've had in preparing for a season." Weinke said. "AJI I've had to do is prepare myself mentally and physically for the season. And I'm going to enjoy it. Why leave and go try to dea.l with some of the headaches you're going to have at the professional level when you can defend a national championship and try to win another one?" 
Sweet music to Florida StatH coach Bobby Rowden's ears. 
"I don't know anyone in the United States of America would swap for him,'' Bowden said before quietly adding, "but that Virginia Tech kid is pretty good. 
"But here's a guy 28 years of age and he doesn!t try to lord over the other players with Tm older than y'all and I know more than y'all."' 
Like a coach on the field, right? 
"He knows how to talk to 'em. lie knows how to rallv 'em around him," Bowden s~id. "I don't want to put too much pressure on him, but that might be the best thing we got going." 
It might be. Weinke is calling signals for a team loaded with talent. Peter Warrick and Ron Dugans may be gone, but a new set of speed demons are moving in, led by /\nquan Boldin, one of several receivers who spent the summer in Tallahassee working with Weinke. 
"We've had a chance to get our timing down," Boldin said. "He seems more accurate." 
More accurate? Last season, Weinke completed 61.5 percent of his passes, hitting on 232-of­377 attempts. In '98, he com­pleted 50. 7 percent, 145-of-286 for 2,487 yards and 19 TDs. 
NOTRE1lAME 

ROW.ING GLUB 
jOIN THE MOST POPULAR, FUN, AND COMPETITIVE MEN'S CLUB AT N.D. 
II 
Previous rowing experience is not necessary. Freshmen are especially encouraged to join. 
Women are needed as coxswains. 


-
page 20 
VOLLEYBALL 

Schroeder-Biek gives young Belles stability 
By KATIE McVOY Assi~unt Spores Editor 
Graduation left Saint Mary's volltiyball with several voids on their roster and few familiar returning faces. 
Bul tho rnturn of .Julio 
Sdmwdm·-Biek to the head coach 
position fills onn of those voids 
with much needed stability. 
"Thn volleyball team is young lwcausc we graduated most of tlw squad." athldic director Lynn Kachrnarik said. "But wn're excit­rd bnrausr w,~ have an alumnae as the new coach." 
Schromler-Biek. who grnduatml from Saint Mary's in 1988, has a long history with the school. After rncovoring from a back injury at thn University of Wisconsin. she transforrcd to Saint Mary's with orw ynar of NAIA tiligibility. 
SchroNlnr-Bink played on tlrn team in the 198(> season, and during lwr senior year at Saint \1arv·s, she bncamc the assistant roa(:h for tlw 1987 season. 

Sch rcrnd er-B ie k rel. u rrrnd Lo Saint Mary's in I<J<J 1 lo act as Urn head women's vollevball coach. and remained the irnad coach until 1996 when her daughter lmgan kindnrgartm1. 
"I wanted to he home with hor," shci said. but she missnd lwr job. 
"l missml il incredibly much," SchroPder-Biek said. "I helped out a lot. that lirst year, and when Lynn Kachmarik asked me to come back when the spot opfmed up this year, I was very excited." 
/\!though the team is young, Schroeder-Bick is looking for­ward to coaching the Saint Mary's women again. 
"I lov;; coach!ng.. ~ain! M~ry' s womnn, shn said. l hey ro mtcl­ligent. They're playing because they want to play." Saint Mary's, a Division Ill school, does not offer athlfitic 
scholarships. Athletes. therefore, are not playing because of possi­blc scholarship money. 
Schroeder-Biek likes this Division Ill philosophy. "They arn there for the love of the game," she said. 
The Belles are returning only four members of last year's team that f'inislrnd with an overall record of 17-15 and an MIAA rncord of 5-:-3. 
Senior Victoria Butcko and juniors Angela Myers, Jolie LeBoau, and Jaime Dineen will be the nuclirns of thf1 Saint Mary's volleyball warn this s1mson. 
Joining tho four rnturning play­ers are eight freshman players and one new junior player who will fill in the gaps left by last year's graduating seniors. 
The team will meet on Monday, August 28, to determine team captains. 
Tim Belles open their season with Ml/\A matches on Fridav and Saturday, September 1-2, at the Alma Tournament. 
The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 25, 200U 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Belles edge past Pilots, 3-2 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Spores Writer 
Coach Jason Milligan and ihn Belles soccer team had a little bit of an advantage when they defeated Hethel College Thursday in an exhi­bition. 
Milligan knows the Bethel program inside and out. after spending four years at Bethel College and playing for their men's team. Milligan's knowledge proved key Thursday, as the Helles defeated Bethel 3-2. 
The teams battled a 2-2 tie in their last meeting. 
"I think that both teams played bettp,r this year," Belles head coach Jason Milligan said. "Its just grnat fto be able to play Bethel.)" 
Milligan likes the early scrimmage because it gives his players a chance to expe­rience tough competition in a game situation before the season officially starts. 
"It gives us a chance to see whore we're at a-s a team,"Milligan said. "It's great competition." 
The Belles came out a little sluggish. a testament to the youth and inexperience of the freshmen. 
The Pilots were able to slip two goals past veteran goalie Tia Kapphahn, who minded tlrn net for the 1998 season before moving upfield in 1999 when Brie Gcrshick 

"With the help ofthe upperclassmen, we have turned into a talented team. We play like we've spent eight years playing together. not two weeks. ,, 
Katie Green freshman forward 
held the starting goalie job. 
"We're bringing in a lot of' 
younger girls defensively," 
Katy Robinson, junior center 
midfielder and stopper. said. 
"Wo're working with Jared 
lf!ochstet ler, the defensive 
coach] every day." 
The Bellos defense picked 
up and lrnld after that, allows 
ing Saint Mary's offenso to 
work its magic and score 
three consecutive goals to 
take the lnad and win. 
"[The ddcnsel has a lot to learn," Hobinson said. "They . are listening and learning 
quickly." 

While the offense and the 
defense seemed to struggle 
on the Belles sidc at tlrn 
beginning of the game, they 
picked up after the second 
Pilots goal. 

"I thought our movc1rnmt in 
the second half was much 
bcttM than the fin;t," 
Milligan said. 

Katie Green, a freshman 
forward for the Bc~l!es, got in 
scweral shots, inciuding a 
great chancn off a pass from 
veteran scornr Ileather Muth. 
"It was a lot difforent from 
high school soccer," Grnon 
said. "But thcrn's a lot of 
heart in this team." 
Sheer persistence paid off, as it was Kristen Greenwood who finally found Lim net for the Belles rwar thl' end of Urn irncond half, Lo narrow tho gap to one. Muth garnnrnd the assist on the first goal. 
Green had anothor break­away at the start of thn sm:­ond half, also unsuccessful. The Hellos shooting gallnry was held silent until tlw end of the second half. Muth scored and night minutes later Gret\nwood tallied again off a throw-in by Stephanie Artnak, another freshman Belle, to put the lklles up 3­
1. 
The Bellns grounded the Pilots for the final minutes of the gan111. although crowd support scemnd to boom loudly in support of Bethd 
But it was tlrn colrnsive nature of' the Belles' nudnus that held their composure tognthnr. 
"With tlrn help ol' the up pPrc I ass m1111 . we have turnml into a talnntf1d tnam." Grnen said. "We piny like wo'vn spcmt night years play­ing together, not two wcwks." 
The Belles have aniithnr home scrimmage• against a South Bnnd women's soccer toam set for /\ugust 26. 


Attend the Info Session on September 21st anytime between 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. at the Stewart Center in room 322. Pizza served at 5 p.m. and refreshments served all day. Bring your resume! Also stop by our ~ooth at any of the 4 Purdue job fairs: 
• 
Sept. 7, 2000 -Computer Roundtable 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 

• 
Sept. 13, 2000 -PESC Industrial Roundtable 1 0 a.m. to 4 p.m. 

• 
Sept. 14, 2000 -School of Management Employers Forum 1 0 a.m. to 4 p.m. 

• 
Sept. 22, _2000 -Purdue BCM Roundtable 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. 


If you are interested in a career at Arthur Andersen email your resume to the Purdue Recruiting Team at chi-campus_recruiting@us.arthurandersen.com. Or fax: 312-462-4369. 
Assurance • Business Consulting • Corporate Finance • eBusiness • Human Capital • Legal Services • Outsourcing • Risk Consulting • Tax Services· 
Note: The seivlces offered In particular areas may depend on local regulations. In some loca.tlons, legal and/or tax services are provided by Andersen legal, the International network of law firms that 
Is associated with Andersen Worldwide SC. 
~ 

Arthur Andersen refers to the U.S. finn of Arthur Andersen UP and other members of the Arthur Andersen global client S81Vice ne1work. 102000 Arthur Andersen. AH rights reserved. EOE. 
ARTHURANDERSEN 
Friday, August 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Football 
continued from page 24 
lrish·s scrimmage last Saturday. "Number two. I would probably haw1 to say is the dr,pth on the front seven. particularly at linebacker. Arni then I would havH to say llw 1-mcondary." 
Davhi's worri1~s arise from a 1999 sea­son marrPd in mndiocrity. A year ago, the Irish yielded an avcrago of 27.6 points and 
383.7 yards p\;r ganrn. In a winless Nowmbcr, their statistics went south, cul­mhmting with a 40-37 loss at Stanford. Jn that ganrn tlrn Cardinal gainer! 472 total yards with :185 coming through the air. 
/\ftl'r losing safeties Doke Cooper and A'.Jani Sandrrs to graduation. the sec­ondary looks to rr,load with seniors Tony DrivPr (frcic saldy) and llon Israel (strong safotyl slated to start as of Thursday. At the r.onwrs. Williams will start alongside Pithcr Clifford .leff<'rson or Shane Walton, vvho an• comp(\ting for the right corner­
ba<'k·nod. 
Tlw Irish \\ill face thrne of the nation's toµ quarterbacks this season in Nebraska's Frie Crouch. Purdue's Drflw Brees and USC's Carson Palmer. 
"Tim writers don't know the talent we havP at cornPrs," Williams said. "I've watched a lot of lilm on a lot of corners an<! I don't. think there am too many tAams out thcrn with the corners we have." 
Othrw personnd concPrns includn nam­ing a backup at drop lim•backer. As of Thursday, starting inside linebacker Anthony Denman is also listed as the reserve to starter Rocky Boiman. Also. with the number of injuries and surgeries last season, a key for the 2000 campaign is to upgrade the S(~cond-team defense. Of the dr,fonsive backups (excluding Denman and .Jefferson. who started last year), only left cornerback .Jason Beckstrom and left defonsivc end Ryan Robert<; logged more than 30 minutes of playing time in 1999. 
"We've emphasized that the past few 
practices." defensive coordinator Greg 

LIZ LANGfrhe Observer Irish head coach Bob Davie oversees preseason drills. Although the Irish are tight-lipped about their defensive strategy for the 2000 season, the team is working on better aggression and pass coverage. 
Mattison said. "Maybe there's a difference in maturity and experience but a lot of these kids don't know how fast the game is played at until they're in there." 
They should know come next Saturday. 
NOTES: 
. The Irish will begin today's practice with a scrimmage between the first offense 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Featuring the best theological & philosophical works. • 
-111g1
tht,., . & 
ffeve-rY • 0' 

so-62% d Oil" 1.e GO'!'~esS S9 
Final day: ~ Friday, September 1 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE• 234-0003 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown So. Bend Open 10-5 Mon/Wed/Fri, and 11-6 Tues/Thurs 
WELC 
UPP!' 

5-9iPM• BURG 
and second defense, then the second offense against the first defense with the second teams simulating Texas A&M's plays. The practice will also include kick­ing situations and passing situations between the first team offense and defense. 
. Tailbacks Julius Jones and Terrance Howard will miss today's practice because of hamstring injuries. They may return to practice.on Monday. 
"They just can't go full speed right now," Davie said. "If we played this Saturday. they both would probably play." 
. Three players left the team since school ended in May. Offensive lineman Neil Ambron returned home to Colorado and may not play football again. Wide receiver Jamaar Taylor, who left just prior to preseason camp, has enrolled at Texas A&M and defensive back Albert Poree has enrolled at Georgia Tech. 
Freshmen Women  
., ,.CHEER~g~pt,~~•Try()Ut·..·.  
Saturday, August 26, 2000 at 3:00 p.m. Rockne Memorial  
.~ ,•·, . • .. •·. '• .. ,·  
Qualifications: ND freshmen women only. Cheer experience necessary, tumbling series, sharp motions, dance, great attitude and spirit.  

k-:ec-~p-zz;;;==­
~/',..·-:.,:, 

INFORMATION MEETING: SUNDAY, AUGUST 27, 1 :OOPM ROCKNE RM. 21 8 
FOR MORE INFO. CALL: BILL ARCHER 1-5443 RECSPORTS AT 1-6100 
i==========;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;iii-i...............---­
FOOTBALL 
Thorpe award pegs Driver 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame senior free safety Tony Driver is one of 40 players on the "watch list" for the 2000 Jim Thorpe Award. 
The award is given annually to the best defensive back in college football by the Jim Thorpe Association in Oklahoma City. 
The 6-1, 215-pound Driver is Notre Dame's top free safe­ty for the 2000 season. He was named a second-team preseason All-American and an all-Independent team selection by The Sporting News. Additionally, The Sporting News ranked Driver third among free safeties in the nation. 
Driver has switched back to frne safety after spending thH 1999 season as a tailback in the Irish offensive backfield. While playing free safely in 1998. 
Driver recorded 60 tackles and two interceptions. Those two interceptions came in the last two minutes of the '98 Notre Dame-Purdue game. His first pick off with 1:39 remaining set up a game-win­ning field goal. His second interception with :37 left enabled the Irish to run out 
the clock. 
hiday, August 25, 2000

----------=---=-_::_-:=:-====::..::.. --------=-=-=-=-=-=-=-::..:..=-=-=-=-=-::'.:.=-=-==--=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-======:--=-=-=--=--=--=-=-======--=.:::--::=::===----~--_-_-_-_-::_--::_-'.::_--::_--::_--::_--::_-=---~~~:::==----=------_-_-__ 

Irish 
continued from page 24 
shutouts. Post has played in fivP ~anws. allowing no goals in 174 minutPs ol' play. 
A con• of solid s1iniors will l'ontinul' to IPad tho Irish as t.lwy prc'JHtrn to kit·k off tho ;woo S('a­SOIJ. Thrt>n-timn All­Anwrican and national­playnr-ol'-thn-y11ar l'.an­d i d a t 11 I\ 11 n (' M a k i n ,, n !Pads tlw nvt>rpowPring NO l rn ]) am fl 111 idnf\ 1d. Tim backlinf' fpaturns tcum-captain Knlly I.i11dSPV, whiln Mnotis Erikson, the t1•am's loading scorer, will fuel thf' Irish olTnnsP. 
''I'll look for play<'rs lik1i ,\nun Makinen to do good ror us bPcause shp's now kind of a s1~nior lt1ad1ir of the team,'' Waldrum said. "And Meotis Erikson is going to hav11 to stl'p up and tak<• a larg(1r roln in goal scoring." 
Maki1wn and Erikson, along with sophomore dPfondPr and J<)<J<J Hig East rookin-of-tlw-year Vannssa Pruzinsky, W(1rn natnt\d to tlw pr;)­snason all-Big Hast tn;im, whi!P thP Irish w<•r1• pick!'d to dPfrnd tlu•ir Big East Mid­At la n l ic Con f'e ni n <' ,. tit!P. NotrP llamP will bPgin tlw sPason al'Ll'r gPlti ng a chance to form kc'v tiPs with Pach ot!wr a11d b!(•1HI to form a winning combination, 
al'I.Pr s1wnding l () days i n Bra z iI d u r iII g t 111• month or .\ugust to gain 
1•)(p1•riP11c•p against int,•rnational 1·omp1•ti­tion. 
·•On" of t lw r P as o 11 s \.\'I! took the foreign tour was to g(•t the Vl'l('rans away with tlw incoming frt\shman this y1•ar Lo try Lo g,;i tlwm to bond. /llld I think that part or it was vnrv sut-cl'ssl'ul." Waldrum said. "I think Urnt tl1ti makPup of lhi' team. Urn chemistry, is good in tPrms of pPrson­ali tins and play1•rs fit­ting in." 

Notrn Danw, ranked JOHN DAILY/The Observer SPl'.OJHI in tlw pn•season Senior Kelly Lindsey defends a Michigan opponent during the 1999 season. With the graduation of Nalional Soccer Coadws 
key Irish defenders Jen Grubb and Kara Brown, Lindsey will be a leader in the backfield this season. 
Assncialion of Anwrica poll, is not sum what to Irish after finishing the 1999 6-12. really know," Waldrum said. expect f'rom th e Detroit season fourth in the "I think it isn't so much "I think we just need to con­Titans, a team tlrny dirt not Midwestern Collegiate preparing for what they may centrate on the things we play laSt season. Detroit also ConferencP with a record of or may not do since we don't need to do well on." 
o•wns its season '"!!!'""!!!"-----------------,
againstt·;.;h.;;e
t p _________ •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Soccer 
continued from µage 24 
"Wn'rn focusing on keep­ing our defonse solid. and not giving goals up," said senior tri-captain Dustin Pridmorn, "From our defonsivn play w1i'rn going to look to create opportuni­ties in Urn 1\ITnnsn _" 
The focus on dnf'nns<• brings th,i goaltnnding posi­tion to tho fornl'ront. 
Sophomores Grng Tait and Coln Straub am com­peting for the starting posi­tion. Tim two Zahm Ital! rnsid1rnts am hest f'rinnds and roommates, making for a strong ynt gentlnmanly competition. 
"We rnaliw that what(WP.r decision is made, it's tl111 coach's dtJcision," said Tail. "Wn'ro going to support who ever is on Urn liPld_" 
On the olfonsivo end, tlw squad is looking to hn nrnni aggressiv11. 
"Onn of our prioritins is to be more attack-orienUHI," said Pridmorn, "Wo fen! we've be1!11 lacking thn last couple of years in our attack. Wn're looking to creatn morn r,hancns and for people to usn their own personal creativity whnn tlrny're in the attacking third." 
While the nntiro team returned to school in nxcnl­11111 t shap1\, onn new face has stood out. 
Frnshman hack Cirng Martin is a two-time Parade /\11-Amnrican and has compdnd internation­ally. 
As a f'roshman Ill' has imprnssnd wa.mmatPs with his ability to adjust to tlw collPgP ganw. 
"As a young playPr, I think hn's handl(id it rnally wnll," said l'ridmorP "lln's adjusted to the collngri play. and he's dnalt with tlrn pressure that com11s along with being a frnshman and playing on thn field." 
Seniors Pridmorn, Stnvn Maio and .ConnPr LeHosn serve as tri-captains, pro­viding ne11ded leadership for a young team playing under a nnw head coach in Chris Appl,i. Apple took over aftnr the unnxpncU!d dnath of head coach Miki! Hertkelli last spring. 
The Irish begin their reg­ular snason on Friday, September 1, whnn thny take on Nnw Mexico at tlw UNLV Fila/Snickers Rebel Classic in Las Vegas. 
Got Sports? Call The Observer at 
1-4543. 
fj'4££E'l' 

•Introduction to all levels 
•Students are instructed according to their level 
•The fun way to stay healthy and fit
I
C asses Meet: 
Beginner  Sundays  1:00pm-2:30pm  
Wednesdays  6:30pm-7:45pm  
Advanced  Sundays  2:30pm-4:00pm  
Wednesdays  7:45pm-9:00pm  
Pointe  Sundays  4:00pm-4:45pm  
Wednesdays  9:00pm-9:30pm  

All classes meet at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Information Meeting Sunday, August 27 

2:00pm -Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Register in Advance at RecSPorts Registration Fee is $39.00 for Ballet & $10 for Pointe Sign-Ups Begin Monday, August 28 -8:00am Space is Limited 
~~~ 


••
•
•
•
•
•

• • SATURDAY. AUGUST 26 
• 
I0:30AM AT ST. JOE BEACH • 

• 
MliilM • lliill!M~ • 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

R~~ : 
www.nd.edu/~recspo1i • 
Friday, August 25, 2000 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
The Observer . TODAY 
TOM KEELEY 


BILL AMEND 

A HIDEous AND LoATH­SoME CREATURE IS CHARGING TOWARD You FROM SEHINO! 
page 23 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 



In an effort to make purchasing football tickets more difficult, students are now required to cross a oiranha filled moat. 
YOU ARE IN A DARI< ANO GLooMY 
CAVERN. I 
MY WIZARD USES HIS +2 STAFF oF 1LLUM1­NAT10N. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 File holder 1 Iron hook with a 33 Pirate of note handle 
37 1980 Rolling 5 Place to have Stones hit locks changed 38 Binds 15 Bus or air 
39 Let the cat out 

alternative 
of the bag 16 Bach wrote a 
40 Crescent point

concerto in A for 
41 South extension 

it 
42 Flee

17 With 10-Down, 
43 One of Hines's

"Charmaine" 
varieties

songwriter 46 Like a 16-Across
18 Articulate 50 Fan's production 
19 roll 20 New York 
52 Stretch, with Cosmos star 
"out" 21 Discharge 53 Some animals are close to it
22 It's interested in interest 56 Bahrain power? 24 ''The Oblong 57 Part of a forest Box" writer bed 26 Spawn 58 Doing 27 'Which Way 59 Paloverde and _?" (1977 film) pecan 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE M I L T O N 
0 R A A R I O S O ...t-:--+::+:-L+:-:-A+-N--1 L Y 
60 "A Kind of Loving" novelist Barstow 
DOWN 1 Nod to, maybe 2 Exasperation 
exclamation 3 You may dip into it at dinner 4 Impresario 
Ziegfeld 5 Not erect 6 Director Gance 7 Auditioner's 
quest 
8 and the Dragon (book of the Apocrypha) 
9 Mad people, for 
short? 10 See 17-Across 11 Unpleasant 
hangover? 12 Jazz (up) 13 Bonanza finds 14 Cooped 
20 Look through a keyhole 23 Malodorous: Var. 24 Exercise unit 25 35-Down, for one 27 Radioactive isotope having mass 230 28 Gets lost 
--+-+......,,E=-i 29 It may be 
5 burning 
30 Having ignored 
N T a subpoena, 
--+-+--+---l--+-+-1--1 perhaps 
,-;.+.,,,.+,U;;,.+-,E,-1 31 Overpower A R I S E N A 32 Couple in T O R E R N K contact? 

Puzzle by Brendan Emmett Quigley 
33 "La Vie Boheme" musical 34 1847 tale of the South Seas 35 Musical premiere of 1900 
36 Part of a shower scene? 42 Novelist Reid Banks 43 Points at dinner 44 Dog with a curled-back tail 45 1940's-50's dictator 
46 Lifters count 50 Like some loads them 
51 Can you dig it? 
47 Turnoff 54 This, to Heloise 48 Burial place of 55 Rx word
the Greek giant 
Enceladus 
56 Linz locale: 49 Down less Abbr. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95ft per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 1HIS DAY: Tim Reid, Ocely Tyson, Robert Urich, Janie Fricke, David Susskind 
Happy Birthday: Take care of each matter as it arises. If you let sit­uations get out of hand, you will be paying the price for some time to come. This is a year to tie up loose ends and begin new ventures. A pos­itive outlook will bring the support you're looking for. Take the initiative to push your own objectives. Your numbers: 2. 17, 25, 33, 37, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your imagination will be overactive, and you'll be jumping to conclusions re­garding false beliefs that you have conjured up regarding others. Don't waste your time fretting over nothing. 000-· 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You 
must direct your energy wisely. Short 
jaunts to visit friends or relatives will 
be rewarding. Your contribution to 
those les.s fortunate will be appreciat­
ed and will enhance your reputation. 
000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Emo­
tional blackmail is apparent if you 
haven't given your partner enough 
of your time. Try to be understand­
ing, but don't allow him or her to 
take advantage of you. You can con­
fide in close friends. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Don't get involved in the personal affairs of others. Your interest in for­eign traditions will be sparked if you attend events that exlribit how other cultures celebrate the festive season. 
0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Money you don't have to work for is evi­dent. Winnings, rebates or gifts should come your way. You can make changes around your home that will benefit everyone. 00 
EUGENIA LAST 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Do things that you enjoy doing. This is a ­great day to get into creative projects that you find relaxing. You will take great pride in all that you do and will be pleased with the response you get from others. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Get your domestic chores out of the way. Plan activities to include the whole family. Unexpected visitors may drop by, so be prepared. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): Do things to please yourself. Problems with your lover will send you for a loop. Don't be too quick to retaliate. Ifs best to bide your time until after the holidays. Talk to trusted friends. 
000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It is best to visit friends rather than entertain at your place. You need to do something that will pro­vide you with the adventure and excitement that you crave. Look into taking a trip. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 

Your change of attitude will cause some problems with family mem­bers. They probably feel you are giv­ing too much to outsiders when charity begins at home. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Someone you thought you could 
trust may not have been completely 
honest with you. Relatives may try to 
put unreasonable demands on you. 
You'll have to draw the line. After all, 
you need a break, too. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 
need to get involved in worthwhile 
causes tnat will restore your faith in 
the human race. Secret involvement 
must be avoided at all costs. You can 
find happiness if you look in the 
right places. 0000 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
----------------------------------------------------~--------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 



On par for success 
With seven victories and $6.9 million in PGA prize money. Tiger Woods. the current leader in the NHC Invitational. is causing an
PORTS 
uproar. 
page 15 

<. OTHE 
page 24 BSERVER Friday, Augusc 25, 2000 
FOOTBALL 

Davie looks for more aggressive defense 
By TIM CASEY Assis1am Sports E<licur 
Listen to cornerback Brock Williams dnscribn the Irish defomm for a fow minutes and the words "aggressive" and "improwid" are bound to arise on numerous occasions. Just don't nsk him to share any insight on how the Irish plan on dcfomling the upcoming oppo­nent.'l. 
·•1 can't dcscribn our defoose because that's somelhing I don't want to do because of' the coathos or something like that." Williams said. "I can·i tell you what the dufomms are but we'll be morn aggressive. You·rn going to sne a lot of stuff. I guarantee you that. You'll sHr.. man." 
With practices closnd to the mPdia and a tight-lipped coach­ing staff, Irish fans will have to wait for the Sept. 2 season opt>nr.r against Texas A&M for any rnal insight into the defen­sive schemes and game plan. But tlrnre will be some subtle changes. Or at lea.st that's the company line. 
"We've made some scheme changes." head coach Bob Davie said. "Obviously, we want to be more aggriissive and we have to be better in pass cover­age." 
Though Davie, Williams and thr rest of th11 Irish refuse to specifically comment on what those changes are, one thing remains clear: forget a new quarterback, a rnlatively inex­perienced receiving corps or any or the other offensive con­cerns. llavie and his troops an~ cheilly concerned about thn otlwr side of the ball. 
"Our number one priority is to show improvnment on defense," said Davie after the 
see FOOTBALL/page 21 


MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish end preseason 
at IFPW 
• Notre Dame looks to hone skills at Showcase 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Spons Writer 
In its final preparation before embarking upon th11 2000 season, Urn Irish men's soccnr warn travels to Fort Wayno, Ind. this weekend to com ­petc in the I P F W Soccer S h ow case. 
A ft " r taking on the Game­cocks of South Carolina on Saturday afternoon, Notre Dame moves on to play either St. Louis or Akron in Sunday's second round. 
All thrne schools bring in impressive crednntials. 
South Carolina is known for fielding a solid soccer pro­gram while St. Louis has competed well in the NCAA tournamr.nt year in and year out. 
Notrn Dame foll to Akron in spring play during the last academic ye.ar. As has been the style of play for Notre Dame soccer in the past, the team will focus on f'ielding a strong defense. 

see SOCCER/page 22 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

New players fill holes in line-up for season opener 
unfamiliar faces will appear die. a trcmnndous rolo in the suc­
"/ think it isn't so much

By RACHEL BIBER on the soccer field this "I think certainly at this cess of Notre Dame in 1999.
preparing for what they 

Sports Wrirrr Sunday afternoon as the point we weren't at this spot Waldrum will look toward Notre Dame women's soccer may or may not do since last year because the players junior Liz Wagner and sopho­team suits up for their first were a veteran team and they more Sani Post to succeed
The cast of characters may we don't really know. I be new, 
battle of the season against had been together for a num­Beene who left the net after
think we just need to

the Detroit Titans. ber of years," Waldrum said. srtting the school record l'or
bu l the I r i s h The Irish kick-off the sea­concentrate on the things "I think that the challenge is career goals-against average women's son al'ter going 21-4-1 in to get the new players inte­at 0.63. Both Wagner and
we need to do well on." 

s o c c e r 1999 and advancing to their grated, but right now we are Post gained experience in the
Randy Waldrum 

team is fourth NCAA championship really pleased with where wn shadow of Beene. Wagner has game in the last six years, Irish head coach are." played 377 minutes in 16
looking to continue and will look to fill the holes An immediate need that the games in her earner, allowing its win-in the lineup left by an almost knows the departure of the Irish face is filling the shoes only one goal and coupling irreplaceable group of seniors poses a challenge for of the 2000 graduate and All­with Beene to sham I l 
ning ways. Waldrum 

Due to seniors. his team, but is confident American goalkeeper Head coach Randy Waldrum LaKeysia Beene, who played
the loss of six seniors. some they will overcome the h ur­
see IRISH/page 22 

vs. South Carolina Volleyball Volleyball
8 
in Fort Wayne, Ind. vs. Fairfield at Alma Tournament
SPORTS E!J 
Saturday, I2 p.m. Sepr. 1, 4 p.m. Sept. 1-2
• • Cross country
ATA at Valparaiso Inv. 
vs. Detroit 91C Blue vs. White scrimmage vs. Texas A & M 
Sept. 9, TBA 

{I
Sunday, I p.m. Sepe. I, 4 p.m. Sepr. 2, 12 p.m.
GLANCE 







