
And the winner is ... 
Grading the government
Four dorm rooms are featured as the campus' 
Finals may be approaching, but student 

Friday
best for neatness, atmosphere, freshmen, and 
government is just hitting midterms. The Observer 
overall excellence. 
looks at our leaders and issues a report card. 
DECEMBER 1, 
Scene . page 12 
In Focus 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 63 . 


The crime she can't remember 
• One student tells her story of a date rape drug, experts caution others 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Associate News Editor 
Editor's Note: Katie is an alias. 

In recent years, rapists have a new way to overpower their victims in the form of a drug. Now commonly known as the date rape drug, Rohyphnol ("roofies") or GHB has emerged. 
The drug is colorless, odorless and may be tasteless and is normally slipped into drinks where it then dissolves. 
For 17-year old Katie, a visitor to Notre Dame's campus, that horror became reality during a weekend of what was supposed to be filled with the fun of football tradition. Instead of memories of tailgaiting and rush­ing the field, she will remember the week­end as the one that changed her life -the weekend that she may have been raped. 
Accompanied by a friend who attends Notre Dame, Katie went with a group of college students eager to party to an off­campus apartment that was the home to several Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents. While not a frequent drinker, the social atmosphere grabbed her. and she made the decision to drink. 
"I never really drink because it isn't worth the trouble," Katie said. But the high school junior consumed about three beers in three hours, drinking conservatively in the new college environment. 
Feeling in control and not intoxicated, Katie left her group of friends midway through the party to go to the bathroom. Before she went to the bathroom, a stranger took her cup from her and refilled it. 
"I lost track of [the cup] for a minute, but th~n the person gave it back to me," she said, adding that if she had been intoxicat­ed, her friends would have never left her to go to the bathroom. But in the hazy recol­lections of that evening, after Katie left the bathroom, she remembers nothing. 
Katie says she woke up in the original apartment hours later, with a hazy, con­fused feeling -and a strange man lying next to her. 
"I didn't recognize where I was and there was this person who I had seen earlier in the night next to me," she said. "I asked him who he was and asked him not to leave me because I didn't know where I was." 
But beyond the terror of not knowing where she was, more terrifying to the high school junior was that her clothes were disheveled, and some removed. 
"I had more clothing off than on and this isn't like me at all," she said. "It was very scary because it's not like when you go to bed at night and dream but wake up and don't remember things ... because at least you know when you wake up nothing bad could have happened to you even if you don't remember." 
But Katie had the feeling that something bad had happened to her, and this wasn't a dream. But even so, her normally conscien­tious character abandoned her, and at no time did she say to the stranger to take her home. 
Katie finally made it back to the dorm where she was staying -although she doesn't remember how -just before sun­rise. Her friend later described told Katie she was confused when she returned, still obviously under the influence of the drugs. ~he said she was "like nothing, she said I Just sat there," Katie said. _ . What confuses Katie most about the night 1s her whereabouts the hours after leaving the bathroom. 
"What doesn't make sense is that [my 
see DRUG/page 4 

LET THERE BE LIGHT 

Election reforms proposed 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 

.Last year's s~dent body elections began with a suspens10n and ended with a dis­qualification. Throughout the election sea­son, there were appeals made, cases heard, appeals granted and appeals denied. 
Because of these complications and a need to improve the overall election process, the judicial council and senate oversight committee revised the student union constitution, making several elec­tion reform amendments. The revised document was presented to the student sena~ for approval at Wednesday night's meeting. 
"The effort to make election reforms has been around a while," said oversight co­chair Audra Hagan. "Thero were prob­lems in the past and the changes seek to provide for unknowns in the future. We wanted to put a few more checks and bal­ances in the whole process." 
The judicial council and oversight com­mittee met six times starting in September to discuss possible amendments. After fall break, the final revisions were decided upon and given to Hagan, who put them into constitutional format. 
"It was definitely a group effort," said Tony Wagner, judicial council president. "We wanted to work with senate instead of having two different groups working against each other." 
Structural Changes 
The reform included several structural changes, including the c:roation of an elec­tion committee, an executive committee and executive liaisons. 
"I th.ink the most important thing we did were structural changes," said judicial council vice president of elections, John Bauters. 'This year, there is a definite process instead of handling issues as they come." 
The J-cow1cil representative from each dorm will make up the election commit­tee, chaired by the vice president of elec­tions. These representatives will monitor voting stations and ensure dorm resident'> are informed about elections and rules. 
The executive committee will be made up of members from the election commit­tee, four will be elected by the committee, 
see ELECTION / page 6 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Identities of a college grad 
Five hours. After having spent more than 1650 hours in class over the past three and a half years and who knows how many hours studying, it all comes down to the five hours of class left in my college career. And in those five hours ! will be turning in two 15-20 page papers. 
Kate Steer 
presenting one and taking 
two finals. 

And in the tradition of srripted questions for col­A~sociate lege students' conversa­News Editor tions. I have answered the question, "Are you sad about almost being done?" a multitude of times recently. If I'm feeling honest, my answer is, "Not so much sad as I am excited." If I feel like pandering to sentimentalism, I say. "Yes! ! feel like there's so much more that I want to do before I leave Notre Dame." If I'm reflecting on the future, I say, "No way -I'm scared1" 
While the differences in these answers would point to dissociative identity disorder (yeah, I'm a psych major), they're all true to some extent. 
But at the end of a major stage in one's life. this is normal. Or at least that's how I ratio­nalize it. ! mean. how can I not be excited to have earned a diploma in less than four years with a double major from a national University? It's impossible to not feel over­whelmed about such an accomplishment. 
At the same time, though, I have met some incredible people here, from the women I have lived with in Pangborn to the people I spend so much time with at The Observer to the mentors I have worked with academical­ly. And it would be unreasonable to not feel sad about leaving these friendships, even though they will continue after graduation. 
There are things I still want to do and things I probably won't be able to do before I leave, but whether I can accomplish them or not is not important. because of the huge number of things I have been able to do here. The good and bad episodes have contributed to my college experience in irreplaceable ways. 
Yet what I will be doing next semester, next year, in a few years is completely unsched­uled. Any senior will tell you that that is scary. "So what are you doing next semes­ter?" everyone asks. This one is easy, no optional answers: "No idea." Most likely I'll be ad_iusting to life as a college graduate and maybe making some money before I head off for a year of service or graduate school. Even if I'm doing something menial, I wouldn't trade that for another semester of school. especially at somewhere around $1000 a credit hour. I'm looking forward to not having 12 things to do at any given time, being able to sleep seven nights a week and maybe more than 4 hours a night and reading a book for fun. 
So yes, I'm glad I'm almost done with col­lege, and yes I'm sad to be leaving and yes I'm scared about the future. But isn't that the point? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Kate Nagengast Amanda Greco Maribel Morey Graphics 
Score Brodfuehrer Katie Annis Sports Production Noah Amstadrer Karie DeMent Viewpoint Andrew Soukup Pat Kelly Lah Tech Par McElwee Tony Floyd 
The Ohmwr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday cxccpr during cx.tm and vac,uion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associ.ttcJ Press. All r-eprodu"ion rlglus arc rc5.rp.1eJ. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, December l, 2000 
°THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
WSND implements new policies Dec. 3, 1979 
In response to the controversial broadcast. "Sex at Notre Dame,'' new policies were implemented at WSND. The sta­tion submittP,d eight proposals to James Roemer, dean of students. Among other restrictions, WSND would tape delay all future talk shows. restrict the two station employ­ees involved in the show from appearing on any future talk shows and cutting these employees· air time by half. 
Pangborn turns into women's dorm Dec. 4, 1991 
Pangborn was converted into a women·s dorm to acco­modate an anticipated increase in female students. The announcement came after a May 1991 decision by the Board of Trustees to lift the 37 percent cap on female enrollment that had been in place for the past several years. The new target for a freshman class of 44 percent female, 56 percent male was set for 1992. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Riot discipline: A tricky science for Ohio State 
COLUMBUS. Ohio 
ishing students for off-campus mis­
In the wake of the early morning conduct. However, a revised version riots on Nov. 19 that. produced fires. of the code is being considered in a stabbing and a quick reaction the University Senate. If the revised from Ohio State University's presi­code is passed. it would allow the dent. legal questions have arisen university to discipline students for relating to the disciplining of stu­violent crime committed off campus dents. or for destruction of property. 
President William "Brit" Kirwan Elizabeth Conlisk, a university has said Ohio State will consider spokeswoman, said the rules which punishing students for their crimes routine until they meet with Student permit Kirwan to discipline students committed off campus during riot­Affairs. Recommendations will then located outside the Student
are ing that followed OSU's football be made for each student's status, Code of Conduct. game with the University of said Bill Hall, interim vice president "Put aside the code of conduct, 
Michigan. of Student Affairs. He has said that [Kirwan'sI disciplining the students 
All 10 of the OSU stud ents who punishments may include proba­by taking the faculty rules into con­were arrested on the night of the tion, suspension, dismissal or even sideration," Conlisk said. riots have been suspended in being barred from attending any However, the possible penalties or abeyance, which means that they school in Ohio. punishments for students who arc will be able to continue attending The existing Code of Student involved in off-campus misconduct classes and go about their normal Conduct makes no mention of pun-are not detailed in the faculty rules. 
TUFTS UNIVERSITY 
Undergraduate students end sit-in 
MEDFORD, Mass. 

Tufts University president John DiBiaggio sent out a mass e-mail to the Tufts community Wednesday affirm­ing specific sections of Tufts' nondiscrimination policy, in particular areas covering self-acceptance of identity. The statement prompted the 20 students who staged a 35­hour sit-in on campus to end their protest and claim vic­tory in their battle to get the administration to address the issue of discrimination. During the protest, the stu­dents, most of whom are members of the group formerly known as Tufts Students Against Discrimination [TSAO], demanded that the administration affirm two aspects of the nondiscrimination policy: self-acceptance of one's identity and the applicability of the policy to external organizations operating at Tufts. DiBiaggio met with a team of student negotiators during the day and released a statement meeting those conditions at 5:15 p.m. "I want to state clearly and succinctly, for the record. that Tufts has a rigorous and comprehensive nondiscrimination pol­icy that has worked well for many years," he wrote. 
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 


Presidency not likely to go to dad 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
University of Illinois senior in commerce Ethan Hastert thinks the presidential election is over. "At this point, we have a president-elect, and it would be a good thing for the country to move on, and for every­body to get to work," Ethan said. His dad, who happens to be third in line for the presidency, thinks the same thing. Ethan's father is Dennis Hastert, Illinois con­gressman and speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives. If the battle for the presidency contin­ues, at this time next year, Ethan Hastert might find himself living in the White House. If January comes and the presidency is still undecided, Hastert is next in line for the presidency. But his son. Ethan, shares a belief in the improbability of this scenario taking place. After reviewing the conditions that would have to occur in order for Hastert to become president, Brian Gaines, professor of political science, said, "It's a minute chance that anyone other than Bush or Gore will be president." 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather forecast for daytirre conditions and high temperatures 
Th~ AccuWeather<' forecast for noon.Friday, Dec. 1. 
FRONTS; 


.....-.-..a...&.. ~ e 2000 AeeuWoattior, tne. COLO WARM srATIONARY 
l'r•Uurt· 
® © D D D D D CJ 
Hlg-h Low Shower• Ralt1 T-•torm• Ffunle• Snow ke Sunny ~-Cloudy Cloudy 

V1aAi"svc!altJdP,.•tJ 
Atlanta 57. 39 Las Vegas 49 22 Portland 52 43 
Baltimore 41 26 Memphis 59 38 Sacramento 59 39 
Boston 41 24 Milwaukee 33 23 St. Louis 39 30


'9,Q,~'98Q !)-~ u 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow toe Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 37 22 New York 39 27 Tampa 77 54 Vis Assadelsd Press G,aphicgNBI Houston 67 45 Philadelphia 41 25 Wash DC 43 27 
,--------------------------------------------------------------·------------------------------------.
. 

Friday, December 1, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 

WoDien's Resource Center plays educational role on c8111pus 

on." 
By L<\.URA ROMPF 
Assistant '-iews Editor 
In other senate news: 

. Senate passed a revised copy of 
liana Simpson of the Women's the str·.dcnt union constitution, 1\Psourcc CentPr told the senate whicl. r,cluded election reform \Vc•dnesday night that the center current­amenctments. Iv has threi> main functions: to servi> as [n order to prevent violations that i~n information source, a coordinator and occurred in last year's elections an awarl'ness organization. from happening again. several 
"We havr a substantial library right changes were made to the original now wlrnre people can com, look up document. A detailed explanation of information or check out books," all election reforms will appear in Simpson said. "We also hope to coordi­Friday's Observer. nate resources for organizations both on . Senate approved a letter to be rampus and in St. Joe County... We sent to Bill Kfrk. assistant vice-pres­don't ofl'f'r counseling at the Center. but ident of residence life, and Dean wc> ran sflnd peoplfl to the appropriate Eileen Kolman, dean of First Year plaros." of Studies, asking for their support 
Simpson told the senatH that the Center of the Healthy Living Guide for sponsors events thronghout the year. Incoming First Year students. The starting with Freshman Orientation. The packet would include information center is currently planning several pro­about various services available to grams. Notre Dame students. 
"\Ve are looking lo have a speaker on "We want their support before we \>ating disorders. and we're currently go further in planning the packet," talking to Tracy Gold of Growing Pains," said Lewis senator Luciana Reali. Simpson said. "Eventually we want to distribute 
She also said the Ccntf'r is looking for the book to more than freshman so service opportunities and planning a all students can use it as a refer­forum about women in sports. ence in the future." 
Diana Simpson stood before Notre Dame's Student Senate Wednesday night to 
Simpson said the Center's main con­. Student body vice president 
describe the Women's Resource Center's role as a provider of information for students. 
eerns am its budget and reputation. Brooke Norton informed the senate "Because of our small budget, it's hard to that tickets will be available for the dedicate money to our day-to-day func­BCS football bowl game if Notre the senate that there will be mail service Palko as The Shirt Coordinator for 2000­
tions," she said. "We're looking at good Dame participates. However, they will be available in Lafortune. If students give 2001. ways to allocate our funds." distributed in the form of a lottery. so if mail to the LaFortU11e [nformation Desk, . The office of the President encour­"A lot of people have a negative reac­students want a better chance at ',,\,inning 
it will be mailed out the next morning. aged senators to urge their dorms to join tion to the Women's Resource Center tickets, they should also enter into the . Senate unanimously approved pro­in the hall-decorating contest. They also because they don't know what it's parent lottery, for which an application fessor Stuart Green as the faculty advisor informed the senate of "Finals Fun," or about.·· she said. "We just want people to was already sent home. to the student senate. events sponsored by student government see what we're doing and what's going . Zahm senator Ryan Becker informed . Senate unanimously approved Scott during finals week. 


Trunk Show *Saturday* 
6:00 pm .. 10:00 pm Washington Hall 
Overcome the fear of buying online. Touch, feel and try on items from your favorite brands including: 

JUICY COUTURE 
litt\'41
~ 

PRADA BAGS 
• 
BCBG Ml!i!i SIXTY. MAXAZRIA LACOSTE 
itTs,yToHAIS011
JAMES*PERSE 
LOS A.NGELES
easel 
. \ 

FRENCH CONNECTION
FENDIBAGS For-nc::u-ano 
' ·. 

Join us before and after the 5th Annual Asian Allure Fashion Show Saturday, Dec. 2, 2000 at 7:30 pm in Washington Hall. 
Men's and Women's Fashion Clothing and Denim 
shopbop.com 
DeBartolo to remain open all night for exams 
By MIKE CONNOLLY I News Writer 
Students looking for a large, quiet place to work during study days will have one more option this year. 
Beginning Wednesday at 10 
p.m. DeBartolo Hall will be open 24 hours a day to accommodate students' studying needs. All the semi­nar rooms and classrooms without computers will be unlocked and available for use by students. 
"It is very beneficial to stu­dents trying to meet dead­lines and complete projects," student government chief of staff Jay Smith said. "Student schedules are not always typ­ical of most of society." 
If the 24-hour availability of DeBartolo runs smoothly during study days, student body vice president Brooke Norton said DeBartolo might be permanently open 24 hours in the future. 
During finals week, DeBartolo will be open from 
9:30 p.m. to 5 a.m. so that students can prepare for their exams. DcBartolo was chosen as the new study area because of its size, according to Jenny Monahan, assistant to the vice president of stu­dent affairs. 
"It provides the most amount of space fur stu­dents," she said. 
The auditoriums will not be available for student use dur­ing these times. Classrooms with computers will be locked but any students that 
wishes to use one of the com­puters can request that the door be unlocked. The DeBartolo computer cluster will continue its normal hours. 
Some classrooms will be unavailable for student use if professors have reserved them for review sessions. The times when these class­rooms are reserved wiH be posted outside the door to the classroom. 
The Office of the Provost, Student Affairs and student government started looking into the possibility of 24-hour access to DeBartolo Hall soon after Father Mark Poorman took charge of Student Affairs last May. 
The biggest concern in opening DeBartolo 24 hours was security -especially theft bv non-students. 
"It ~asn't from a student standpoint," Norton said. "But if all the doors are open to DeBartolo, that's a big building with a lot of equip­ment." 
Locking the doors to class­rooms with computers will hopefully eliminate some security concerns and will assure that students who really need to use the com­puters will be allowed to use them. Only students who need to use the computers will be allowed into computer rooms. 
"They want to make sure only students arc using it and students who need to use it, like business students preparing projects, get to use it," Norton said. 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, December I, 2000 
"My doctor said it was more than likely from everything I
Drug 

had told him. [My story was] 
continued from page l very similar to another case he 
had seen where the girl had 
friends] were all over looking been given the date rape drug," 
for me." she said. "They would she said. "He said that he was 
have seen me at the apart­99 percent sure I had been 
ments or where I ended up out­given 'roofies' in my drink that 
side if I ha.d been there because night." 
they searched the whole area.'' For several years Laurel 
The details that don't make Eslinger, director of South sense that are most troubling to Bond's Sex Offense Services Kalie. Upon returning home (SOS). has been hearing from that weekend, Katie began to women like Katie who suspect fathom the occurrences-of that that they have been given the evening. date rape dru~ -but cannot 
She became more and more remember all the details. 
confused about the events that "We began hearing about 
transpired during the fateful incidents involving the drug 
night. After talking to her par­about five years ago," she said. 
c n ts, she decided to see the "We average about one case a 
doctor. month where a woman thinks 
"I've never she has been 
had sex given the 
before and so "We average about one drug a:,1d was 
I was embar­raped.
case a month where a
r a s s e d "People because 1 woman thinks she has would come 
was going to been given the drug and in and say a 
see a doctor chunk of Lime 
was raped."
and have had elapsed tests for that they had STDs, AIDS Laurel Eslinger no memory of and a preg­or were con­
director of South Bend's 
nancy test," fused about
Sex Offense Services
said Katie. "I and we kept didn't realize seeing this anyone could pattern have done this to me. I was just emerge for about four years. thinking the whole time, 'what This Jed us to believe they had if I have an STD or AIDS or if I been drugged in some way." am prngnant? It can't be, it However, Eslinger said there can't be. I have a future ahead is no way to verify when one of me with so many plans and I has been given the drug in want to go to college."' some situations. 
Although she learned she "One of the problems is that wasn't pn'gnant immediately, it samples need to be collected look a week for the other tests quickly after ingestion of the to come back. All of the tests drug so by the time the victims for AIDS and STDs came back wake up, realize what has hap­negative. Iler doctor told her he pened, and want to take action. couldn't tell if she had been it is too late, so it is hard to raped. Although the covering in conclusively prove what the the vagina that is normally bro­person was given," she said. kc n during intercourse was And it's not just college stu­intact, tho doctor said that it dents who are being given the do11s not break for evervonc drug, Eslinger said. who has intercourse. · "This drug is being given to 
The doctor was also unable to everyone," she said. "We t1!st to sec if Katie had been need to sec it as every­given the date rape drug since one's problem not just one it would have processed from that is specific to college her system by that time. campuses." CHB, con-
Visit 'Ihe Observer Online. http://observer.nd.edu 

tained in "roofies" acts as a 
depressant on the central ner­
ROTC reaches out 
vous system and can even 
account for amnesia for a peri­
od of time after ingestion. 
to help coID01unity
Therefore, victims given the drug often cannot account for events that happened to them 
does everyone else." 

. Arnold Air
after ingesting the drug. It can 
The scheduled activities 

take effect as quickly as 15 Society hosts include face painting, crafts,minutes after ingestion. 
Field Day for cookie decorating and games
Eslinger detailed signs that such as holiday musical
needy children 
might indicate whether a per­chairs. 
son has been given the date The highlight of the event is 
rape drug. 
expected to be the arrival of'

By SHEILA FLYNN 
"If you feel more intoxicated . 
Santa, who will present each 

News.Writer
than usual from the amount of child with a gift.
alcohol you have consumed, if 
However. Sant.a and Air 

you wake up and feel really Committed to both national Force HOTC are not the onlyhungover or can't account for and local service, the Arnold ones contributing to the event. 
some period of time, or if you Air Society of Notre Dame's A number of dorms including,feel someone has had sex with Air Force ROTC will host its Keenan, McGlinn and Dillon, 
you but you can't remember 
annual Field Day, Sunday from have collected gifts by asking any or all of the incident, these 
1 l :00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. in residents to donate a may be indications you've been 
Stepan Christmas pre­given the drug," said Eslinger. 
Center to sent in place of 
provide "It's a great service 
She has suggestions to pre­
exchanging

vent from being given the drug. 
I o c a I project. The kids have a gifts at their 
"One of the big things to 
under­dances.
great time and so does

remember is not to drink a bev­privileged Refreshments erage that you didn't pour or 
everyone else. " 

children were donated 
open yourself," she said. 
with a day by local pizza
"Also, don't share drinks, 0 f Matt Murphy places, sub 
take drinks from a big punch Christmas shops and Food
president of the

bowl or a container that is 
activities Services.
Arnold Air Society

being passed around and don't 
and enter­In addition. 
take drinks from stranger. If 
tainment. the children you are dancing or go to the 
Fi e l d will be enter­

bathroom, take the drink with Day has been held on the tained by a variety of Notreyou," she said. 
Notre Dame campus for over a Dame performance groups.
Eslinger warns that everyone decade, winning the Benjamin Members of the marchingneeds to be aware. "It's some­D. Foulois Squadron national band, the Irish Guard, Troopthing everyone needs to be con­acclaim in both 1996 and ND, the pom squad, Stars and scious of and unfortunately, it 1999, when the project earned Stripes and the Air Forcereally does exist. It's very sad," 
them a Willie B. Mays Award. ROTC rirle team will beshe said. 
This year, over 100 children appearing.Today, Katie is still coping 
from organizations such as El "I have a great staff working with the experience. 
Buen Vecino, YWCA, Girl with me and have received a "To tell you the truth, I don't 
Scouts, South Bend Center for lot of support from the 
think I feel the way l should the Homeless, Boys and Girls squadron staff members and feel," she said. "I'm grateful 
Club and the Charles Martin the Notre Dame community,"that everything was okay and I 
Youth Center have been invit­said Kim Milford, event orga­was so relieved when the tests 
ed to campus. nizer. came back and there was noth­
''It's a great service project," She said, "Pulling off an ing wrong with me. I'm looking 
said Matt Murphy, president of event like Field Day is reallyat it as a learning experience 
the Arnold Air Society. "The all about teamwork and usingand especially after I got the 
kids have a great time, and so your resources." test results back, I decided I was ready to move on.'' 

TOGO 
I f's fas±. I±'s simple. Call or fax in your order: ±hen come and ae± i± a± our special side entrance. And don'± fo.rae± ±o park in our reserved To Go parkinB spaces. You'll find moufh-wa±erinB seledions ±o choose from indudina; Bi$ Mouth Bu.raers, Baby Back Ribs. Fajitas. Steaks, Salads and more. Chili's To Go is every amazinS ±hinB you can set a± Chili's-±o f!J. 
Mishawaka 
4810 Grape Road PH: 219.271.1330 
& BAR

HOURS: Monday-Thursday ll:00a.m.-11:00p.m. Friday-Saturday 11:00 a.m.-12:00a.m. Sunday-11 :00a.m.-10:00 p.m. 




ATION 
Friday, December 1, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Guerillas kill 16 in India: Suspected separatist guerrillas killed 16 people and wounded 20 Thursday in three attacks in Inrlia's northeastern Ac;sam state. police said. Insurgents demanding a state have killed more than 10,000 people in the last decade. Seventy have been killed this month -most Ilindi­speaking minorities who settled in Assam. 
Indonesia takes military action: 
President Abdurahman Wahid ordered tough military action in far-flung secessionist provinces of Indonesia on Thursday, fearing that tlrn world's fourth most populous country could break apart. In scenes uncomfortahly reminiscent of the 32-year reign of former dic­tator Suharto, more than 1.000 troops and riot police paraded Thursday though Jayapura. capital of' lrian Jaya province. on thA eve of a big independence rally here. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Kindergartner killed in bus crash: 
A bus packed with children overturned within sight of their Kentucky elementary school Thursday, killing a 5-year-old kindergartner. More than 30 other children were taken to hos­pitals. State Police Trooper Chuck Robertson said the bus carrying 47 children apparently ran off the shoulder of the road and the driver overcorrected, sending the bus across both, lanes before it overturned. 
Soccer mom guilty of assault: ·A woman was found guilty of assault for her part in a brawl involving parents at a boys' soccer game. Jacqueline Lenon was ordered Tuesday to complete 20 hours of community service and was fined $405. Municipal Judge Michael Dowgin also recommended that Lenon enroll in an anger-management program. She refused. Police said the fight Sept. 19 began after the two teams. one from New York City, the other from North Hunterdon, N.J., were about to begin a shootout to break a tie. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Lawsuit seeks roadblock arrests overturned: A lawsuit filed in a Marion County court seeks to have potentially thou­sands of criminal convictions thrown out because they resulted from unconstitutional sobriety checkpoints. The lawsuit was filed this week after the Indiana Court of Appeals ruled that the police roadblocks violated the state constitution and the U.S. Supreme Court ruled against drug roadblocks conducted by Indianapolis police. The lawsuit against the state seeks to have an Indianapolis man's pub­lic intoxication conviction expunged because it resulted from a January 1997 roadblock by Marion County police. 
Market Watch 11 /3 O 
Dow 

10,414.49 -214.62
]ONES 
CompositeSame: 
81: 
Volume: 
497 • 
NIA 

-~mllfllfflllllllili!ilil 
Nasdaq: 2597 93 -109.00 S&P 500: 1314.95 -26.96 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY  %CHANG£  $GAIN  PRICE  
Cl>CO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  •7.37  -3.80  47.RB  
MICROSOFT CORI' (MSFTl  -11.81  -7.68  57.38  
ORACLE CORP toRCl.l  +Jc;_gc;  •3.62  26.50  
INTEL CORP (!NTCl  -10.97  -4.69  38.0G  
NASOAQ 100 Sl!AR (QQQ)  . 0.07  +0.04  62.98  

GERMANY 


AFP Photo A worker completes veterinarial tests at a Russian meat processing plant that all meat passes through before it is allowed to be processed. In Russia not a single case of mad cow disease has been reported to the Department of Stock Breeding of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Russian Federation. The Veterinarian Service is preventing any infected animals from Europe from entering Russia. 
Mad cow disease sparks new tests 
the disease is formally France and 80 in Britain and cattle imports from
Associated Press 

known. The measure is to have died from the human some EU nations to cover 
BERLIN take effect Saturday. form of the disease. Belgium, Denmark, 
Anxious to calm public Feeding animal meal to In Brussels, Belgium, a Ireland, Luxembourg, the fears in Europe's mad cow cattle has been banned in European Union veteri­Netherlands, Germany crisis, German officials Germany since 1994, but nary panel Thursday and Spain. said Thursday they will officials want to help backed proposals for fur­Germans, long told that introduce mandatory beef regain public confidence ther testing of all cattle their beef was safe, were testing, check whether by extending the ban to over 30 months of age in shaken by reports about pastures spread the dis­other animals -raised for all of the union's 15 coun­the first mad cow cases in ease and possibly burn up slaughter. tries. the country. Media reports huge stocks of animal feed Contaminated bone and Illustrating the spread of say beef sales have in power plants. animal meal in cattle feed the scare, non-EU coun­decreased up to 50 per­
German lawmakers late are believed to cause mad tries also took new mea­cent. Thursday approved an cow disease. Some scien­sures against the disease. "It's pretty drastic," said immediate blanket ban on tists suspect the disease Switzerland said it will Marcus Girnau of the meat and bonemeal feed causes a similar fatal ban animal products in all German Association of after the first German brain-destroying ailment, livestock feed by March. Food Retailers, which rep­cows tested positive last Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, The Czech Republic resents supermarkets. week for bovine spongi­in people who eat infected announced it will widen "Everyone is selling less form encephalopathy, as beef. Two people in an existing ban on beef beef, some none at all." 
NIGERIA 

Fire kills dozens after pipe burst 
Associated Press  LAGOS  The pipeline, owned by the state Nigerian National Petroleum Corp., carries refined fuel from the port to  The practice of "scooping," the name for the process of vandalizing and gathering fuel from pipelines, is  
Dozens of adults and children col­ a depot where it is loaded on trucks  common  among  impoverished  
1ecting gasoline from  a  gushing  · and taken to Nigerian cities.  Nigerians despite the risk of fire  or  
pipeline were burned alive Thursday  A state oil company official, speak­ harsh punishment.  
when the pooling liquid exploded  ing on condition of anonymity, said  Some government critics have  
into flames, witnesses and oil compa­ there were many dead  -people of  accused corrupt officials of turning a  
ny officials said.  all ages and both  sexes  - in the  blind eye to the practice in return for  
There was no official figure for the  blast and fire, which he blamed  on  a share of the profits from fup,l sales.  
number of victims, but witnesses and  oil thieves.  Residents said the pipeline began  
reporters estimated the dead at  Company  spokesman  Ndu  spouting fuel about a  week before  
between 30 and 60.  Ughamadu said the number killed  the blast, causing large pools to form  
The fire also destroyed shacks in  may never be known because rela­ on the ground.  
nearby squatter camps at Atlas Cove  tivAs were collecting bodies to avoid  Ughamadu said unidentified crimi­ 
near the Lagos port of Apapa.  prosecution.  nals were responsible for the leak.  

----------·---. 

Debt forgiveness policies changing 
By EMILY ORR 
News Writer 

According to the Nov. 2 edition of The Chronicle of lligher Education, the Department of Education passed rrnw rngulations regarding the responsibility of family nwmbPrs to repay loans after a student becomes disabled or dies. These regulations were created to help the depart­ment crack down on people who file false claims of disabil­ity or death to avoid replaying federal student loans. 
Changes were made due to the large number of such claims made in the past, including a department study, which. according to The Chronicle of Iligher Education, found that $70 million in student loans wen~ forgiven under fraudulent claims between July 1994 and Dec. 1996. 
Under federal rules a disability refers to medical impair­ments, expncted to continue indefinitely, that prevent a borrower from working and earning wages. A student can­not be considered totally and permanently disabled on the basis of a condition that existed at the time he applied for a loan, unless his condition substantially deteriorates. 
Under the new regulations. department officials will con­ditionally approve a discharge for a loan borrower who becomAs permanently disabled and then monitor the bor­rower's financial status for up to three years to ensure that the purson does not begin to earn "significant" wages. If at the end of three years the borrower still meets require­ments for receiving forgiveness of his loan. the department will permanently discharge the loan. 
On tightening the regulation, senior Brian Dixon said it makes sense. People shouldn't be abusing the system and cheating others out of financial aid. Fellow senior Maureen Sullivan agreed with him. 
"Suppose it's good because people who take advantage of it are just hurting other people. It takes away from people who really need [financial aid]." Sullivan said. 
Under these new rules, colleges will be independently responsible for determining whether borrowers in the Perkins Loan Program, a campus-based program that pro­vides low-cost loans to students, qualify to have their loans discharged. Due to the operational changes that will take place for lenders, colleges and the Education Department itself. the provisions will not go into effect until July 1, 2002. 
However, as a result of falsification of death certificates that has taken place in the past, families will have to pro­vide an original death certificate or a certified copy before a loan can be forgiven as of July 1, 2000. 
The policy changes should not significantly affect Notre Dame's policy on debt forgiveness. According to Brenda Wardlow, the loan manager for Notre Dame students, 
there is no specific Notre Dame policy. Instead the school follows federal regulations regarding the forgiveness of debt for students with disabilities and the families of those who die. 
Wardlow said that in the 30 years she has worked for the school, maybe half a dozen cases have been brought before her. This miniscule number of students attempting to gain debt forgiveness at Notre Dame demonstrates that the new policies will indeed have very little impact upon the school. As for the policy for students who die, Wardlow said, "As for as death. death certificates are pretty final. No one is trying to scam you." 
Election 
continued from page 1 
and two will be appointed by the chair. The vice president ofelections chairs the body, making its total membership seven. The executive committee is responsible for voting, ballot distribution and other func­tional aspects ofthe election. 
The final structural change will be executive liaisons, the president of the judicial cmmcil and a member from the student senate. These liaisons will keep the two bodies updated on all violations, hearing and appeals. 
"l think there is a real difference in the organization," said Wagner. "There ½ill be greater communica­tion between the two bodies. It will be more efficient and this should help the candidates more than us." 
Hearings 
Last year's student body election ended with one ticket being disqual­ified, declaring the remaining ticket the winner. Eventually the vote totals were announced and desig­nated tho same winner as the for­feit, but the event brought to the forefront the need for fonnal hear­ings. 
'"010 new hearing process is more disciplined," Wagner said. 
In the reformed system, allega­tions of misconduct must be report­ed to the vice president of elections. the election committee reviews the allegation and votes on its merit. If a majority of the election committee feels a hearing is necessary, both sides of the allegation will present their case, and a judgement will be made. 
An appeal can be heard by the senate one week after the hearing. The senate should submit its deci­sion in writing to the judicial council. 
"By putting it in writing we can set a precedence for the future," said oversight co-chair Jessie Flores. "This will give some consistency because people will be able to go back and see what we did." 
If the election committee disquali­fies a candidate or the candidate forfeits aft.er the primary election, a re-election will be given to the stu­dent body. 
"You can't bave a president by default." Bauters said. "You can't give the election to one person with­out looking at the ballots ... Ultimately, you should give the stu­dents a choice." 
The two top remaining tickets will run for election and each may have a budget increase of $35. 
The Campaign Process 
In previous years. a single debate was held with all tickets. Becaus<1 last year's debate contained few serious questions and answers, the oversight committee and judicial counsel proposed a nflw system that would allow each ticket to host a debate. The ticket would be required to invite a minimum of two other tickets. and judicial council would help facilitate the debate. 
"People will be able to have more serious debates where they can cut to the heart of the matter," Hagan said. "They can make a debate as serious as they want." 
\-Vhen the proposal was presented to the senate Wednesday night, sev­eral senators felt this system would exclude some tickets and make the election process unfair. 
"When I look at the new system, I see the spirit as solely to exclude," said Badin senator Shannon Bennett. "It means that we are naming some tickets joke tickets, and that is exclusive." 
"I don't think it's up to us to decide, it is up to the student body," said Sorin senator Kevin Berchou. "What if someone gets lost in the shuffle?" 
Stanford senator Curt Roberts proposed a compromise of having the large debate prior to the prima­ry with all the tickets, and then a second debate following the primary election between the two run-off tickets. 
"This will allow for each ticket to participate in one debate and also allow for a serious debate after the primary," Roberts said. 
The senate agreed and passed the new amendment calling for two debates. Bauters said he is happy with the compromise. 
"The beauty of government is one group doesn't have all the power. 'When we sent the changes to the senate, 1 didn't expect it all to fly through without concerns," he said. "What we have now is a step in the right direction." 
"l wasn't disappointed with sen­ate," Wagnor said. "Because they had concerns, it meant they read the document carefully. and that i'i important." 
Tho election reform also changcd other parl,;; of the campaign procoss. The spending limit was increased to $200 from $150 and the campaign period is extended. Petitions for can­didacy will be available the first Tuesday of next semester. A,;; soon as a candidate has 300 signaturns and is approved by the judicial council. they may begin campaign­ing. 
Although e-mails were prohibited last year, they can be used this year with the exception of listsnrvcs. 
Candidates are encouraged to create web sites and the judicial council will send an e-mail to all stu­dents with links to each ticket's web site. 
Student will still vote in dorms, and all campaign material around polling station must be taken down 24-hours before the election. 
"Nothing to do with the actual physical voting has been changed," Hagan said. "The way you cast your vote will remain the same." 
The Future 
Overall, Ilagan said the changes proposed to the senate crune from a collaboration of several outside sources who had both new opinions and suggestions about how to avoid last year's problems. 
"We had four different groups' input on this," Hagan said. "I think these changes are a very positive advancement which will have a pos­itive impact on the election process from now on." 




XXX 
COMMISSIONER APPLICATIONS 
Stt1dentActivities Office RooID 314 LaFortune 
Deadline: 

5:00 pm Friday, December 15, 2000 
Check out the websit.e for IDore i'lfV~ovE . FoR PosT1NG www;nd.edu/,...,bkstr/ . ATE
PULL 
DEC 1 6 7nn11 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFflCE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

page 6  The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS  Friday, December 1, 2000  

Friday, December 1, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
GUATEMALA 

For Guatemalan Mayans, mob killings were only answer 

boys between the ages of 16 and 18 lie from dozens of nearby villages congre­
Associated Press 

in blood-red heaps inside morgue lock­gated outside a small shop of mud­ers -vile reminders both of caked wooden walls and plotted what
LAS CONCHAS, Guatemala 

Guatemala's losing battle against com­would soon become a murderous man­
When it came time to burn the five mon crime and of its horrific inclina­hunt. 

teen-agers alive, tho gasoline flnw i~ 

tion toward vigilante violence. -"The peasants were not going to rest
from all <lirections. 

The teens, whose bodies are so until those responsible were dead,"
"I didn't know so many people had 

charred they will probably never be said Julia Sic, 21, owner of the shop,
brought it," said Alfredo Coy, the self­

identified, rode a bus to this remote, who watched the burnings from her
proclaimed "president" of this swelter­

mountainous corner of central store. "There was no excitement.
ing Guatemalan mountain hamlet of 37 

Guatemala. looking to kill. What they There was calm and there was plan­
metal-roofed houses. "The public came didn't count on was that the normally ning."

ready to do what had to be done." 

peaceful villagers were just as ready When the mob found the boys in a 
He was referring lo the events of 

for violence. nearby forest, they beat them, confis­
Tuesday. when 500 area men, women 

Before dawn Tuesday, police say, the cated their two pistols and three plas­
and children converged on this 

teens ambushed a local man and hi.s 8-tic toy guns and escorted them back to
Q'eqchi' Indian village and did the only 

year-old son, shooting the man to this village, 200 miles northeast of
thing they thought would guarantee 

death to steal the 400 quetzales -$52 Guatemala City. AP
the safety of their families; They 

-he was carrying to buy meat and The locals sat their captives in a cir­
horned five suspActed murderers to 

salt at a local market. The killers dis­cle and staged a public "trial" during 
died. About 500 of us understood thatdeath. setting them on fire one by one 

appeared i.nto the mountains. which each of the teens fingered 
this was necessary because these menas they begged for their lives. 

As news of the slaying spread, locals another for the killing. 
committed such a terrible crime."

Today, the charred remains of five 


C E N T E R F O R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
VEHICLE TRAINING DATES FOR SPRING 2001 
The Following dates are the ONLY dates vehicle training will be offered. No exceptions will be made. If you were trained Fall 2000 you do not need to be retrained. Sunday January 28, 2000 Sunday February 4, 2000 Thursday February 8, 2000 Wednesday February 14, 2000 Sunday March 4, 2000 
All sessions will be held at 6:00 p.m. in Room 124 at the CSC 
REMINDERS: 
• All groups must submit NEW request forms for second second semester scheduling. 
• Requests must have accurate times and name(s) of 
driver(s) to be accepted. (groups leader name insufficient if not actually driving) 
• Direct questions to: cscvans@nd.edu 
Now's the time ... 


When it 
Barely a day later. life was back to 

became clear 
normal in this valley of banana trees,

that the public 
rare tropical orchids and head-high 

saw no room 
cornfields. Barefoot children chased 

for clemency, 
chickens through tall weeds, and

the locals 
roosters -confused by the highlands

doused the five 
altitude -crowed all day long.

boys with gaso­
The red-clay ravine where the locals 

line. Seconds 
burned their victims might be a nice 

later, matches 
place to picnic under different circum­

were lit. 
stances. But today, huge yellow-and­

'' I didn't feel 
black butterflies drift listlessly over 

anything. I 
piles of ashy evidence of death. 

wasn't happy, I 
A blood-soaked collar lies beside a 

wasn't sad." 
charred shirt with a traditional Mayan

said Francisco 
stripe pattern. A melted phone card 

Cau. a 36-vear­
and a blackened Kansas City chiefs 

oId ·corn 
baseball cap lie a few feet away. 

farmer who 
Mob violence has now claimed 28 

said he only 
victims this year in Guatemala. a fig­

watched. "But 
ure that pales in comparison to last 

lots of people 
year's tally of 48 deaths and to the 52 

applauded as 
Guatemalans who were killed in vigi­

the criminals 
lante violence in 1998. 
\. f ,,,,, 

''As You Wish" -~-­
IMPORTS '2J. 
LOADSOFSlLVER&BEADEDJEWELRY _, '-SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS \ TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPREADS PURSES, WALLE'.fS, CHANGE PURSES, AND MUCH MUCH MORE... fNCENSE SARONGS 
DIRECT I.MPORTERS! LOW PRICES!
.,._, 
ALSO .. 
HUGE MOVING SALE! 
ALL CLJ,,ARANCE ITEMS MUST GO OR THEY WILL BE DONATED' 
UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTS! 
Proceeds from sales of jewelry guarantee the loving hands ofGuatamalan families 3times their average salary as well as funds for their education Lafortune -Room 108 (Near Telephones) NOV. 27 -DEC. 2 (SAT) I0-~m 

H's Ume 10 IllIOUr ACE IPPlicauonl 
Stop by 109 Badin or go to www.nd.edu/~ace. 

to finish your degree at BETHEL COLLEGE 
Jri~b jtibe

Adult Education for Today's Busy Lifestyles 
.. . :--. ~ 
www.iri shwear.com

• Experience a nontraditional environment 
• Attend acceferated classes 
• 
Advance your career 

• 
Realize your dreams 


• Focus on values 
·;·nn. hats
-1toves

Call Today! 
lalpstselection
onlyal_;_ ~ 
Sminutes~

219-257-3350 or 800-422-4251 
fr.om CIU ¦ PtiWI

aduliprograms@bethel-in.edu 
s ors
Campw C ; Mot.i.-y-Call 259-1000 for more details 

page 8 The Observer . NATION.AL NEWS Friday, December 1, 2000 
Anthrax vaccine program to dwindle, supplies running out 
Asso~iated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Because of dwindling vaccine supplies, 
60,000 doses, meaning there is enough to give 5,000 shots a month to Gulf troops for a year. Bacon said. He said officials hope Bioport will have approval aging side effects. 
"We continue to believe that that anthrax vaccine is the best protection against a biological threat that .is 99 per­cent lethal. It is safe,'' Bacon said. "And we will continue our program at the cur­rent level in the Gulf, and then ramp it up as soon as we can." 
the P.entagon will cut back further on its plan to immunize all troops against the deadly anthrax virus, officials announced Thursday. 
Under the change, only troops that will serve in the Persian Gulf for at least 30 days will receive the shot, said spokesman Kenneth Bacon. Forces deployed in South Korea. the only others currnntly rnceiving the vaccine under a program curtailed to preserve scarce supplies, no longer will be vaccinated. 
"Given the fact that Saddam Hussein has used chemical weapons in the past against Iran and against the Kurdish minority in his own country, we assess the risk to be greater in Iraq than we do right now in the Korean Peninsula," Bacon said. 
"This is in order to conserve supplies while continuing to protect the people going to the highest-threat area," he said. 
The Defense Department's only vac­cine supplier, Bioport of Lansing. Mich., has experiPncPd delays in obtaining cer• tilication and starting up its new rmmu­facturing plant, which may not be opera­tional for another year. 
The Pentagon at first wanted to vacci­nate all service members but cut back in the summer to only those serving in the Persian Gulf area and in Korea. Usage is running at about 17,000 doses a month. 
The supply has since fallen to about and be producing
more vaccine by the third or fourth quarter of next year, and the Pentagon if; work­ing to fiud an alternate supplier as well. 
Bacon said the military will save some 12,000 doses a month by temporarily dis­continuing the program in South Korea, where the United States has helped maintain an armistice with North Korea since the end of the 
1950-53 Korean 
conflict. 
He also asserted once again that the program is safe. 
A relatively small, but vocal, number of mili­tary members have refused to take the vaccine, saying they fear potentially dam-


Hayyy Birthday, 
Laura Januzik! 
You're 
FINALLY 21 ! ! ! 

love, Mom, Dad, Joyce & Ken 
csc 
C E N T E R F O R 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
NOTICE: CSC VEHICLE DRIVERS 
ALL CURRENT VEHICLE REQUESTS TERMINATE AT THE END OF FALL 2000 SEMESTER! ALL GROUPS MUST REAPPLY AT THE BEGINNING OF THE SPRING SEMESTER! 
Comments or questions cscvans@nd.edu 
..---------------------------------.. 
Stock Market Got You Downil Plavnsate.. 

.50%APY. 
3-Month Certificate 

Some Things You Can Count Onl 
r/}J 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 

219/239-6611 Stop by any of our eight locations, or visit us on the web at www.ndfcu.org. 
@

*Annual Percentage Yield. $500 minimum deposit with direct deposit ofnet payroll or social security check. Without llHOU 
direct deposit, minimum is $10,000 to obtain 7.50%APY. Tiusrate is for a limited time only, and is subject to change. ~ 
Early withdrawal penalties may apply. Available for individuals only. Independent ofthe University. ~ 




Friday, December l, 2000 The Observer . ELECTION 2000 page 9 
Gore seeks court-ordered recount, Bush sees flaws in system 

Florida's law01akers urge special session 
The easy, hassle free way to fly. 

presidential electors. Top lawmakers said it finality to the process." 
Fly to Orlando/Sanford • 

Associated Press 
would probably happen early next week. House Speaker Tom Feeney and Senate
Portsmouth, New Hampshire • 
SI. Louis/Belleville, IL• 

The vote brought a strong reaction from President John McKay would have to call
TALLAHASSEE, Fla.
Philadelphia/Allentown, PA 

Democrat Al Gore's running mate, Sen. for a special session and could do so as
Florida's Republican Legislature is ready 
Joseph Lieberman, who said it was "just early as Friday. The session could begin
to jump in and do what an election so far
.·--~~=--0±&k~
0• 

wrong and sets a terrible precedent:: for Monday, but staff members said Tuesday 
hasn't been able to -make George W. 
other states' lawmakers to meddle in future was more likely. 
Bush president. Al Gore's camp says the
•FREE Parking• Easr access to 

presidential elections. . Bush's younger brother, Florida Gov. Jeb
lawmakers could cause a constitutional cri­
all highwars • Convenient • Secure 

"It threatens to put us into a constitution-Bush, was still holding out the possibility
sis. 
. al crisis, which we are not in now by any that Gore's court challenges might be set­
A legislative committee voted Thursday to 
For Pan Am: 1-800-FLY·PANAM 

stretch of the imagination," Lieberman said. tled in the Republicans' favor, making leg­
recommend to state House and Senate
www.llypanam.com He accused the Florida Legislature of trying islative intervention moot. 
leaders that they call a special session "as 
to make an "end run" around the election. "I don't believe it should be done unless
For More Information 

soon as practicable" to name Florida's
www.garychicagoairport.com Republicans say the U.S. Constitution there is uncertainty," Jeb Bush said. "If this 
Republicans, meanwhile, asked Sauls to order an addi­tion al 1. 2 million ballots brought to Tallahassee from Volusia, Broward and Pinellas counties, said Bush campaign spokesman Scott McClellan. The judge has not yet consid­ered the request. 
"We believe there were a number of illegal votes for Gore in those counties," McClellan said. 
While saying the Bush cam­paign believes that "the man­ual recount is fundamentally flawed," McClellan said lawyers filed the motion because "If there is to be another manual recount, it should not be another selec­tive one designed by and for the vice president." 
Unless the ballots are count­ed before Dec. 12, they said, it will be too late. 
"No legal judgment can cor­rect any Arror found after the electoral votes are cast," their appeal said. "Only the judg­ment of history will be left to be rendered on a system that was unable or unwilling to ascertain the will 'of the vot-


Billiards Tournament 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
Al Gore's lawvers framed their argumenls· to Florida's Supreme Court Thursday as an appeal for the ages, one that cnuld save the right to vote from an assault that would undermine its very founda­tions. 
George 
W. Bush's legal team saw the issue dif­ferently. 
In Florida, said attorney Barry Richard, the law "has been followed. There has to be an end point." 
While a truck brought 462,000 ballots -the first batch of 1.1 million ballots ­to the state capital. Gore's lawyers implored the state Supreme Court to step in and get the votes recounted imme­diately. 

ers." 

The 50-page legal brief repeatedly quoted from the justices' own decision that allowed vote recounts and said tho right of voters to be heard was paramount. 
If votes are not recounted by the time Florida electors need to be chosen -Dec. ] 2 -the briefs said, "the resulting con­troversy about the legitimacy of the presidency would be destructive for our country." 
Republican Bush's lawyers said at a news conference that county and state officials were correct in certifying election results, even though machines had rejected many ballots. 
"It doesn't matter how many times somebody says every­body's ballot should be count­ed," said Richard. Gore's lawyers "haven't asked for everybody's ballot to be counted in the first place," he said. 
"And in the second place, we're not talking about ballots that were not counted, other than ballots that were reject­ed because the machine determined they weren't 
properly marked." 
As Gore's lawyers filed their papers, a truck loaded with ballots was zooming along Florida highways in a 400­mile trip to deliver Palm Beach County's 400,000 bal­lots to the state capital. It was the first of two road trips ordered by Circuit Court Judge Sanders Sauls. On Friday, Miami-Dade County officials planned to send their 600,000 ballots in another convoy. 
Bush supporters mounted a noisy demonstration around the Florida Supreme Court, driving around in trucks, cars and a Batmobile with loudly beeping horns and signs such as, "Al Gore Go Home!" Helicopters whirred overhead, adding to the din. An unaffili­ated prayer group gathered outside the court, singing hymns, wailing for help from Jesus and bowing their heads in prayer. 
The state's high court closed down for the dav without a 
decision.  ·  
"We're puttin g a lid  on  the  
rest  of  the  day,"  court  

allows them to step in because the legal wrangling over who won Florida could drag past the Dec. 12 deadline for nam­ing voters to the Electoral College, putting in jeopardy the state's participa­tion. 
Democrats chal­lenge that notion, saying the state has certified Bush the winner and the only thing that could put that in question would be if Gore won his court chal­lenge. 
Bush, asked in Texas about the situ­ation, said simply: "I've won three counts and I think it's time to get some 
spokesman Craig Waters told reporters at about 6:30 p.m. "There will be no further action from this court." 
He said the justices contin­ued to deal with their regular schedule of oral arguments during the day, but added: "This case is on an expedited track." 
The Gore lawyers have criti­cized Sauls for not moving fast enough. He has refu_sed to rule on the recount issue until he hears legal arguments Saturday. Rut in their Supreme Court brief they said they felt "respect and empa­thy" for the judge whose actions would be considered speedy in normal circum­
_stances. 
"However," said the brief, "these are not normal circum­stances." 
"We do not casually seek such intervention by this court," the lawyers said. "We are here because we believe that this is the, only way to ensure that the precious right of Floridians to vote and have their votes counted will be protected." 
could be cleared prior to Dec. 12 then, clearly, the Legislature doesn't have to act." 
But he said he was willing to sign into law a bill creating a slate of elec.tors "if the bill is acceptable." 
"I can't recuse myself from my constitu­tional duties as governor of the state and I can't recuse myself, frankly, of being my brother's brother either," Bush said. 
Meanwhile, both candidates turned to the 
U.S. Supreme Court, Republican Bush defending the lawmakers' power to get involved and Gore challenging it. 
"It is not self-evident that such direct leg­islative appointment is even available" under federal law, Gore's lawyers argued. 
But Bush's lawyers said in their filing that "the Constitution specifically assigns the power to determine the manner of appoint­ing presidential electors to the state legisla­ture." 
Republicans outnumber Democrats 102­58 in the Legislature and Democrats accused them of charging into a session to protect Bush's 537-vote win in Florida from the possibility that Gore would be found in a legal contest to have won. 


Friday, December 1, 2000 Tournaments start at 8:30pm in ND Express in the Basement of LaFortune Sign-up from 7:45-8:lSpm by the Info Desk on the 1st Floor 
Three Tournaments and Three Great Prizes! 
9-Ball Tournament for a DVD Player! 8-Ball Tournament for a Stereo! Knock-em In Tournament for a Discman! 

This event is.free and open to all ND students! 
Space is limited, sign-ups on a first ..come basis. Rules will be explained at Sign-up. 
Free snacks and drinks provided. Free Pool iftime permits. Sponsored by Student Activities Office-Questions? Contact Banach. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER Friday, December I, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Narro Dame, IN /i6556 024 South Dinmg Hall, Noc,e Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connollv 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Christine Kraly Bdan Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR, Anne Marie Mattingly 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey 
SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENI' EDITOR: Amanda Greco 
SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR, Elizabeth Lang 
ADYl'RTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville 
WEIi ADMINISTRATO!u Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERlGENERAL INFO.............. 631-7471 FAX.. . ........... 631-6927 ADVERTISING..................................631-6900/8840 

observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmroRIAssT. ML ............ .... 631-4541 BUSINF.SS OFFICE....................................631-5313 
NEWS.·········•·•····· ··························••·••·······631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS ..................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE........, . ..............................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARYS .. .........................................631-4324 observer.smc.I@nd.edu PHOTO.......... ................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ....... .........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:llobsr:rver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news. sports, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudenr reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
cial campus coverag,,
and races ofprint ads 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet rhe editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, d.1ily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe students ofrhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. EdiroriJI content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse aclvenisemmrs based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objeccivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the ma1oriry of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns pre>ent the views ofthe authors and 11ot necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor musr be signed and muse include contact information. 
Qu,stiom "tt1rdi11g Obumrrpolirie! shottld br dirm­rd lo Editor in Chief Milu Couno!Jy. 

Res Life prevents student responsibility 

When minor students were cited in University interfered and failed to let the Finnigan's bar raid in October, the students take responsibility for they faced court dates, community their own mistakes. service, fines and Most student account the task of telling bills are paid by their their parents that parents. Adding the
OJhe
they had been fines for the Finnigan's
userver 
arrested. incident from students' 
Students seemed accounts is a near ready to own up to guarantee that their the mistakes they parents, not the stu-
Editorial made. However, dents themselves, will by sending letters be fielding the conse­to the parents of cited students and quences for these violations. Students automatically adding the $100 fine were nut given any options for pay­from their student account. the ment of the fines by any other option 
Putting different spins on the election 
Last night I sat a block from the White House at McPhearson Square, waiting in the rain for a friend. Two dozen homeless persons began lining up along the sidewalk waiting for a soup truck to feed 
them. Eventually, more than seventy men and women of all ages and races had been feed, oblivious to who should or will win the White House located just 


around the cor-Gary Caruso ner. 
A "Friends Don't Let Friends Vote CapitalRepublican" stick­
Comments 
er is proudly dis­played next to the Gore/Lieberman sticker on the rear of my van. It was my attempt to put a little humor and create a tongue-in-cheek atmosphere around my personal involvement in the presidential campaign. In fact. I got a kick out of driving in front of Texas Senator Phil Gramm's car in October, but the humor has since sub­sided. 
Many Democrats believe, and every top Gore official I've spoken with agree that on election day more voters went to the polls in Florida and cast what they thought were votes for Al Gore. Republicans obviously believe that the total is the total and George 
W. Bush won. But it is the nasty turn of rhetorical rancor that has poisoned the post presidential contest. 
Initially, the Republican T-shirts with "Enough is Enough" and "The Count is the Count" adequately sum­marized their opinions. Some other cute phrases included, "My child is an honor student at the Electoral College," "Don't blame me, I voted for Gore twice" and "Thank me, I meant to vote for Gore!" 
However, the tone quickly changed with such signs and bumper stickers that personally attacked Democrats. 
For example, "Daley Like Daddy," a Wheaties cereal box with Gore's pic­ture and the word "Cheaties" on it and "Sore/Loserman" signs with the Gore/Lieberman logo on it clearly implied that Democrats were less than honorable. Disrespect for the elderly and certain counties in Florida were evident in "Eye gradiated frum Paum Beech Elementree," and "Vote for Gore: at least three times." 
The bitterness escalated when House Majority Whip Tom Delay and Republican Conference Chairman J.C. Watt both flatly said that Democrats were trying to steal the election. The rancor continued to rise when a mob of Republican protesters stormed the Miami-Dade County room where the recount board was meeting. Interestingly, a staff member from Tom Delay's office was in the second row chanting and firing up the troops. 
Most Democrats were absolutely livid when Republicans suggested that Democrats were against the military's rights to vote by trying to void over­seas ballots. One high ranking Democrat pointed out that the bitter­ness has exceeded the level during the President's impeachment in 1998. He pointed out that Republicans first quoted statistics that indicated that more than 70 percent of Broward County's absentee ballots were reject­ed by Democratic challenges and then implied that all of those were military ballots. The fact was that only six military ballots were rejected, some because they were postmarked after election day, which is a clear violation of the law. 
Democrats believe that the fiasco with the so-called "butterfly" ballot was a fate that went against them, but was not the deciding factor. The discourse could have gone on about how to count ballots and could have remained somewhat civil. However, when the Bush team challenged the validity of hand counts, and portrayed the Florida Supreme Court as a parti­san Democratic tool, they focused their rhetoric not on the rule of law, 
on their own. 
All other fines issued by the University, such as those assessed in conjunction with parking tickets, alcohol in hallways and other duLac violations. come with payment options. The same measures should be adopted by the Office of Residence Life in regard to the fines issued in the Finnigan's bust. Placing the responsibility for the repercussions of the Finnigan's incident on the stu­dents assures the students the oppor­tunity to exercise the responsibility and judgement they were initially lacking. 
but at the attempt of stealing the elec­tion. 
As a result, the old scorch-the-earth approach to politics we thought had ended with New Gingrich ·s departure was the business as usual. Should Bush become president. the Delays and Watts of the congressional arena have done no favors for him in extending across the aisle to Democrats. Ironically, it did not have to become such a spin of rhetoric over the recount. Until the Florida Supreme Court ruling, it was a matter of wait­ing for the judicial process to decide. 
Another irony in this saga is the reversal of the party's support. Usually, Republicans believe in states· rights, until now. They want a federal standard to overturn the local and state laws that purposely leave wide discretion to the county recount boards. Democrats usually support federal standards in favor of a univer­sal, across-the-board leveling of the field. Yet Republicans have chastised Democrats about using the Florida election law which relies on local deci­sions. 
We are truly witnessing an historic.al period. The election recount had been keeping the nation transfixed, but is now slowly losing that level of atten­tion. Regardless of who eventually wins the contest, public opinion is not the deciding factor, the law is. Soon we will know the outcome of rlorida according to the law, and half of us will not like the decision. 
The next couple of years are going to be difficult for everyone. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73. is currently serving in President Clinton's administration as a Congressional and Public Affairs Director and worked at the U.S. House ofRepresentatives for 17 years. His column appears every other Friday. and his Internet address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer 
DILBERT 
I'LL SEE IF THE GUYS IN MARKETING KNOW FIR5T AID. 

SCOTT ADAMS  
E  
~ g1 iI  R.EALLY? I PICKED THAT INTEf\N IN OUR ENGINEER.ING DEAD POOL!  APPARENTLY OUR TEAM-BUILDING POTLUCK LUNCH DIDN'T TAKE.  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You've gotta lose ·em some time. When you do, lose 'em right." 
Casey Stengel baseball manager 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Friday, December 1 , 2000 BSERVER 
page 11 

Curtailing domestic disputes 

After cornering, it becomes increasingly important to follow rubbish protocol. Failure to adhere to these guidelines may result in severe penalties. Por an egre­gious infraction, the offending party will be designated as the one to go down and meet the pizza delivery guy.· Ile will have this duty for a specified period of time not to exceed six weeks. 
Level four of trash removal involves compaction. Compaction should not occur until a piece of garbage cannot be placed on top of the existing stack without falling off itself', or dislodging another portion (Jenga rules apply). After three unsuccessful attempts to add one more piece of garbage, this same person must (as a penalty for their incompetence) compact the existing pile. 
In a proletariat domicile, you will have a garbage bag or liner. In this case, you will stretch the plastic, using it as a glove, then press down on the trash until you can safely balance more on top. 
Many people are not fortunate enough to have such a luxury. These blue-collar masses will pull the cleanest, widest thing out of the can and place it on top. Empty cases of beer, Grab and Go bags, or Observers work 
voice that is loud and intelligible enough for at least one other resident to hear, call out, "The garbage needs to be taken out." This accomplishes two things. First, it moves the process from the recognition to the notifica­tion stage. Second, it absolves the "notifier" from any further obligation in the trash-removal procedure. Recognizing and sharing the problem is work enough, and for that one person to do the whole job himself would undermine the character and fabric of communal living. 
Step three: cornering. 

Post-notification, the pile of juice boxes, banana peels and Ramen wrappers will reach a point where it becomes unsteady. To stabilize the heap. a person must slowly drag the can along the floor into the nearest cor­ner. The two walls will serve as a crutch, buying the inhabitants crucial study and Sega time before step four. 
Step four: compaction. 

sets the sealed bag down in a place where no person can walk into or out of the front door without tripping over it. In doing so, he is exempt from any further role in the trash removal procedure. This also serves as a mes­sage to others to, well, to do something. I'm not really sure what. I think that's what the argument was about. But, anyway, the next person knows what to do, and it goes somewhere from there. I think that this is where the cycle repeats itself. 
Disclaimer: This manual will only prevent disputes in an all male-environment. Female disputes tend to be more arbitrary and difficult to pinpoint. 
Josh Kirley is a ·99 graduate ofthe University. He cur­rently lives and teaches in Cape Coral, Florida. He can be reached at MrKirley@aol.com. · 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Recognizing all our faults 
Marc Echevcstc's Nov. 29 letter addresses the alien-·· ation he feels from the Catholic Church's teachings on homosexuality. Being gay himself, he struggles very much with the idea that he has been picked out from the rest of the Church as objectively disordered, and that it could possibly be that God "made a mistake" with him and other gay people. 
I write this letter to simply point out that this is a serious misunderstanding of the Church's teaching and to set the record aright, as this reaction to the Catholic Church's thoughts on this subject is very common among the gay community. 
The fact of the matter is that neither Mr. Echcveste nor any other gay person has been picked out by the Catholic Church as disordered. Rather. the Catholic Church professes that every single person, every hi.Iman who has walked the earth since the beginning, has been objectively disordered. (With the notable exceptions of Mary the Mother of God and Jesus him­self). 
I have many, many disordered passions inclining me towards sinful behavior. Every one of us does. God has not "made a mistake" with us; rather due to original sin all humanity has suffered under the burden of dis­ordered passions. That the homosexual inclination is one of these passions for many sincere Christians is simply a painful fact of life. 
It is essential for the Catholic Church to point out the defects in human character that are the disordered passions. If it did not do so, it would not be fulfilling its role as a prophetic witness to the life of Christ. 
It is up to us individually with our confessors and God to work out how we can live with these passions and still be good Christians (And here, of course, my own confessors who are reading this nod their heads and weep at the thought of what we deal with together). 
In the modern era, psychiatrists counsel us to be a sort ofleast-common-denominator "normal." In past days people did not visit their headshrinker but rather their priest, and (for free!) people worked out with their confessors how to live lives of holiness. We are not called to be "normal." We are called to be holy. 
Indeed, we are all called to be saints. Saints are not people who have never sinned. They are sinners just like us who have kept trying in spite of their weakness­es. The Church defines itself when it names saints. We are then, corporately, a pilgrim people, broken and shattered by each of our objective disorders, made whole again in the Body of Christ. 
It is only however through the cross of dealing with our individual inclinations to sin that we make good our promise and our Baptism. 
Nathaniel Hannan junior Dillon Hall November 30, 2000 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Debating the possible ordination of women 
Questioning papal infallibility 
I am writing in response to Carolyn Torson's letter in Thursday's Observer ("Keep the Pants on Priests"). 
I cringe whenever I see someone introduce papal writings into a dialogue as if they are fact rather than interpretation. Ms. Torson's letter implies that she believes in papal infallibility, which as a rhetorical device proves extremely weak. Papal infallibility is. by all objective rea­soning, a political tool used by Rome to secure power among her followers. 
There are two problems with infallibility. 
First, it is a circular argument. How do we know that the Pope is infallible? Because he said so as a matter of doctrine, and the Pope is never wrong about doctrine. Any philosophy professor will point out the faults of this rea­soning to you. 
Secondly, the Pope has been wrong before. The Church, as a matter of infallible doctrine under Urban Vlll, held that the earth was at the center of the universe and arrested Galileo for it. Obviously we aren't the center of the universe. Now here's the thing about infallibili­ty: If you're wrong just once, then you aren't infallible. Simple as that. You can't base infalli­bility on a high rate of accuracy; you have to he right 100 percent of the time. The Pope was wrong, hence the papacy is not infallible. 
God gave you a good brain; use it and don't depend on someone in Home to think for you. If you seriously consider the issue, there is no reason why women cannot perform priestly duties just as well as men. 
Chris DesBarres 
sophomore Sorin Hall November 30, 2000 

Upholding the Church :S teachings 
Since Pope John Paul II, the Vicar of Christ, has made it clear (to anyone using even half their brain to listen) that the Catholic Church is not in the business of ordaining women because Christ did not give it authority to do so, I see no harm in the Commission on Notre Dame's Position examining the possibility of ordaining them, whatever that is supposed to mean. Maybe it will keep the members of the Commission who dissent from the clear teaching and tradition of the Church from engaging in more harmful examinations of other impossible positions. God bless. 
Rev. John Patrick Riley, C.S.C. 
Pastor 
Sacred Heart Parish 
November 29, 2000 



O
THE 

page 12 BSERVER Friday, December 1, 2000 
My room's better 
Scene searched high and low to find the most creative and impres 
Determining a winner is never an easy task -look no further 
than the presidential elections for proof of that. But selecting the 
best dorm room around was a different challenge altogether.
photos 

The final decision was difficult not because of faulty vote tallies and or the voters, inability to punch a card. Each contestant showed such true merit that while only one room will receive the title oftext by "Best on Campus," each of the following rooms is commendable for the character exhibited by both the furnishing or the room and its inhabitants. Few students were brave enough to put their 
AMANDA GRECO room to the test in this competitive race for prestige (Note: There was a disappointing lack of nominations for females, rooms on either side or US 31.) Here they are, some of the top rooms on campus. 

457 KEOUGH HALL 

Best Room on Campus 
Beyond a shadow of a doubt. this holds the two keys issued for room 457. the rest of the room takes the cake. Nominations for Each of the six men who take credit for room. this room came from both Notre Dame the room has his own kev to allow In the corner and Saint Mary's students. Sc1me even access to the lock box. · stand two refrig­received an e-mail from a student at Open the door and it is hard to see erators built into llopc College who was so impressed what separates this room from any their own cubby with this room that, upon hearing of the other. Yet with the push of a button, with cabinets on lierce competition taking place, felt she insta-Christrnas is beheld. All powered top, a counter had to let us know just how unique this by a remote control, Christmas lights and a built-in room is. around the doorway and ceiling -terrarium hous­
Juniors Ed Marks, Joe Feehan, Will along with two small Christmas trees ing a chameleon Bruckcrt, Joseph Dwyer, Anhtuan Do and candles in the window -begin to above it all. and Shane Mcilhenny, the men of 457 glow. With the help of a satellite dish, a The rn1m Keough, were intent on impressing the never-ending supply of holiday music is blinds were hand painted by the resi­Above the aquarium sits a projector judges, and success is theirs. The focal channeled through the speakers. dents of 457 to display a blue "ND" out­that displays DVDs or videos on a 94­point of their six-man arrangement cul­The floors of this room are covered in lined in gold. surrounded by green inch screen hanging in the opposite cor­minates in their social room. the same blue carpeting seen on the shamrocks. ner of the room. This screen can be 
Upon !irst approach. one sees a regu­lock box. Floors, you ask? Yes. Floors. All of the additions in this room -raised or lowered all by the spin of a lar West Quad door framed by garland, There are, in all, three levels in 457 cabinets, table, separations between boat steering wheel hanging on the with a standard issue bulletin board on Keough and what some might consider floors -were hand-built by the resi­wall. the side. a basement. dents using a lovely color of wood pan­The multi-level lights beneath the 
The bulletin board is the only stan­On the first floor sits two couches and eling. aquarium provide entertainment for the dard l'naturn to be found in this room, crne heck of an impressive entertain­The second level is separated from the men as they challenge their guests to however. Adorning the bulletin board is ment center. Equipped with a 36-inch floor by a mobile staircase, featuring turn them on. With no visible switches, an odd box covered in blue plush car­television, DVD player, two VCRs, satel­the signature blue carpet and wood the lights, function may seem an enig­peting. lite television, several video game sys­paneling that gives the room its class. ma. All one has to do, however, is touch 
Upon closnr inspection, one sees that tems and a five-disc compact disc This level is perhaps the most ingenious the screws in the paneling beside the this is a lock box. Because of the nature changer, it's easy to see why there are display of carpentry seen in any dorm lights to turn them on. or the room snt-up and rules regarding nine remote controls on the table -a room. This same lighting feature is seen on the copying or University keys, this box table the boys built themselves to match Comprised of several sections that the bunk-futon that also sits on the sec­
allow for easy disas­ond level. The underside of the top bunk sembly, the floor of houses four of these lights, one for each the second level dis­person seated on the lower level. The guises what the men futon is fully functional as a bed, as estimate to be 150 most futons are, but being a bunk-futon, square feet of stor­it also creates the third level in the age. Lift the center room. section of the floor The top level of the futon, accessible or move the stairs by ladder, has been equipped with pan­and open the panel­eling and carpet and holds a beanbag, ing and one will see throw pillows and the cushion from a the "basement" fea­circular chair. There is not a bad seat in ture -arguably the house for viewing movies, and one of the most rumor has it that as many as 31 people practical facets of have fit "comfortably" in this double. this room. Here, the One cannot overlook the tasteful decor residents store golf of the room. The men never stray from clubs, boxes, suit­their theme of blue plush and panel. cases and a sub­From the posters on the wall, to the woofer for their classic cabinet-encased dart board, to entertainme"nt sys­the six blue and gold stockings -one tem. for each resident -hand-made by Joe's 
Atop this floor mom, to the lava and bubble lamps and rests yet another fiber optic light displays -this room is couch. Next to this a designer's dream come true. couch stands anoth­The men of 457 worked hard through er hand-built cabi­the first weeks of school to create their net center with a masterpiece. The initial unveiling took built-in aquarium, place for the viewing of the first away home to five fish football game in late September. and a crab. However, it is a continual process of 
Set in the paneling improvement as they strive to create on either side of the their own Nirvana. aquarium are two of Having constructed the most high­the seven speakers tech. classy and comfortable yet practi­comprising the mas­cal space in any dormitory, it is with sive, theatre quality honor that we bestow upon the resi­sound system show­dents of 457 Keough the honor of Best cased in the room. Room on Campus. 


<E.t) 

page 8 The Observer . IN FOCUS Friday, December 1, 2000 
interests" and meeting with stu­thought it was a great thing." Society of Women dent senators to facilitate student Student government, however, 
Engineers, Asian American 
OpinionInside 

Association and the Texas Like Edgington, Kirk pushes the from students. 
needs. has not yet gathered respons·es 
continued from page 6 Club. Bryant also volun­continued from page 1 

teers. sponsoring a Christian rock con­it comes to planning projects and regarding the event with adminis­
group in the right direction when There was a follow-up meeting 
here," said Rothrauff. Because of these other cert in the spring, but the scale proposing new government initia­tration and groups involved in the 
However, Rothrauff said time commitments, Bryant, student government was like Romero and Rothrauff,

and cost of the even have proven tives. When there are cotton planning. There was no meeting, too much for the group to handle. candy Founder's Day issues, Kirk though, to learn student reaction. 
making an effort to branch cannot fit the events into University funds are often not sends government to Food Smith says the government is also 
out to many students and her schedule. great enough for government to Services for help. Programs like looking to form student focus 
provide events. "Another reason I don't "I think they're making a attend student governmentafford bigger venues to visit cam­the new Rector's Endowment groups beginning in January. 

better effort to do more events is sometimes theypus, said Jay Smith, student gov­Fund go through many steps of Norton and O'Donoghue also have and to find out what stu­are just at bad times," said

ernment chief of staff. The group administrative approval, met with the Office of Student has since reformed its concert O'Donoghue said, including those Affairs and students will now for 
dents think about things Bryant. but l still think ifs difficult However, Bryant also

planning and downsized the pro­by the Office of Student Affairs. the first time be allowed in the gram to ensure its production. According to Smith, Father Board of Trustees winter meeting 
with all the red tape in the said student government Student government plays a Mark Poorman, vice president for in Washington. 
University," said Rothrauff. could work on making it "There could always be more known to the stu­game of political hokey-pokey, Student Affairs, has been a big Student Senate serves as the more but I think they make dents what it actually does. 

with one hand in students' needs advocate for more 24-hour space most visible mediator between a really good effort." "I can't think of many
and the other in administrative on campus. Student government student concerns and the main concerns. When students want has engaged in talks with him to branch of government. According 
She added that one student government events something, it's often government extend DeBartolo Hall hours until to Smith, there is not a great deal 
advantage to being eve though I know there who goes straight to the top to 4 a.m. during finals week, with of interaction between the Senate 
involved with student gov­are a lot ... they need to "shake it all about." hopes of a future 24-hour exten­and the Office of the President. 
ernment was that she distinguish themselves The group has always had an sion. While there is a weekly report 
knew what was going on, more." advisor. according to Edgington, With all this contact with admin­from the office at every meeting, 
but at the same time, she Bryant did attend an who has overseen the group since istration, il makes one wonder Smith says that the branches run 
said that perpetuated an event that involved movies "inside group." and dinner and said that

early July. The director of Student when government has the time to independent of each other. Activities has usuaily been that talk with students. It seems their "It seems that Senate has had 
"There definitely is the was a more effective way advisor. Edgington trias to meet greatest input comes from familiar its own agenda," he said, and the 
select group ... especially to catch her interest. with O'Donaghue and Norton in sources: friends. same is true for the Office of the 
when you go beyond fresh­"I don't enjoy or don't person at least once a month, but Smith says that he likes to "pick President. Because of this, he 
men year, you're kind of in care for some of what they keeps in casual contact with them friends' brains" on topics like du added, there can be a great deal 
it until you graduate," said do, so I don't show up. I on a regular basis through e-mails Lac revisions and a possible week­of overlap between the two 
Rothrauff, who decided to like food and movies, so I and phone calls. She also sees ly student e-mail of campus groups. Some topics do reach 
leave student government showed up for that ... and I Norton every week when she events. Student government mem­both avenues, including the 
after her first year. was free that night," said oversees Student Senate meetings. bers come from different back­University alcohol policy, an issue 
Sophomore Christine Bryant. Whether it's getting a thumbs­grounds, he added, noting that the government hopes the Board 
Bryant never had an inter­On the Notre Dame cam­up on a new diversity panel or an this helps when getting a greater of Trustees will address at their 
est in getting involved in pus there are a variety of student government, but student organizations to

OK on Gravitron in front of Rolfs, consensus of student input. winter meeting. The Senate the group heads to Edgington and What about the students who offered help and support after the 
said student government join, including student gov­fellow administration for advice. don't know Smith, or O'Donoghue Board approved student involve­
makes a good effort to ernment. Students like "[I work with government] hope­or even their hall senator? How ment in the spring semester 
appeal to students who do Romero and Bryant by fully helping get things passed," are their concerns 'heard? This is meeting. 
want to become involved. choice or lack of informa­"I think [student gover­tion about student govern­

said Bill Kirk, vice president of something Smith says the group is Edgington, though, disagrees. Student Affairs. Kirk, whose most working to improve. There is "a lot of communication 
ment does] a good job ment decided to commit visible student government role is According to Smith, about 500 between the two bodies," she 
since there are so many their time to other organi­as member of the Campus Life -1,000 people attended the said. If there are disagreements 
students that you never zations. can please all of them." · However, for these three, 

Council, acts as a sort of guide in Founder's Day event throughout between the Senate and the Office getting things done. the course of the day. of the President, they aren't aired 
said Bryant. at least, time constraints On occasion Kirk serves as head The event was a failure because at Senate meetings, Edgington 
Bryant has joined clubs form the main roadblock to of a smaller scale Congress, aiding of overall low attendance, Smith added, but behind closed student 
that target a more specific student government government with "constituent said, but "everyone who went government doors. 
interest group such as the involvement. 

Point. Click. Get Tickets. 
It really is that easy. Free, too. 
Observer Online Classifieds 
http ://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 
----<'.7, /

Friday, December 1, 2000 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 7 
STUDENT SENATE 

Committees see successes, hope for future 
to lower the meal plan rate for 
students staying over fall and 
spring break. 
Committee on Oversight 
Because the Committee on 
Oversight's main duty is to ensure 
all Student Union organizations 
adhere to their Constitutional 
duties, the only objective the com­
mittee set in August was to make 
constitutional updates. 
The committee accomplished 
this goal by passing several 
"housekeeping" amendments. 
"The constitution is not a per­
fect document and it is our job to 
make it as user friendly as possi­
ble and the bPst document for all 
students to use," said co-chair, 
Audra Higgins, Pasquerilla West 
senator. 

The committee recentlv com­
pleted a study of election reform. 
After several violations occurred 
in last vear's student bodv elec­
tions. the committee looked to 
revamp the emire process. 
"Election reform is a big deal 
and has been our prominent 
issue," said committee co-chair 
Jessie Flores. Carroll senator. 
"We definitely want to avoid what 
happened last year." 
Committee on Diversity 
In August, the Committee on Diversity said its three main goals were to investigate the International Student Orientation, to distribute a survey to deter­
Committee on Academic Affairs 
mine the feelings about diversity The Committee on Academic 
on campus, and research why a Affairs sponsored one of the most students' ethnic background is significant resolutions of the sen­questioned on Teacher Course ate's year which stated severalEvaluations {TCE's). 
reasons why students need four At the halfway mark, one of study days next Fall, instead of 
those goals has been accom­
the proposed three. 
plished while the other two are "Our biggest project has been still in the works. 
the study days resolution," said "Our main goal this semester 
McGlinn senator and co-chair 
was planning 
Melissa Rauch. 

the Celebrating 
"It wasn't part

Diversity work­"/ promise you there is a 
of our original

shop for the 
lot more to come. We 're plan because 
senate," said we 
weren't 

Nikki McCord, not done yet. " made aware of 
co-chair and it until a few
Pasquerilla 
Ryan Becker weeks into the 
East senator. 
Zahm senator vear, but it has 
"Now that 
taken over as 

we've focused 
the primary

internally, sec-objective."
ond semester we can go out to the Because the committee focused 
entire student body. You have to on this resolution, their projectshave yourself in the right mindset outlined in August of establishing before you can go out and change on-line DARTing, having out-of­other people's attitudes." 
class assignments included in the McCord and fellow chair, Dillion DART book and creating facultysenator Brendan Dowdall, said mentoring are not completed. 
the committee investigated the Rauch said DART is currentlv in 
International Student Orientation the hands of Office of Information 
and determined it has been suc­Technology (OTT) and research is cessful. 
being conducted about guidanceMcCord and Dowdall said they for upperclassmen. 
are working on removing the eth­Rauch said the committee is 
nic background question on 
working on a new project of con­TCE's. Because only one or two 
solidating all scholarship and 
minority students are often in a grant information into one office 
class. identifying race on the 
where students could find infor­
TCE's essentia!Jy identifies who mation. 

filled out the form, McCord said. 
"We did a little research and 
Dowdall said the committee is 
found out that the Academic 
working with the Office of the Council had made suggestions to J>resident to distribute the survey do this years ago, but no one ever about diversity and compile evi­picked up the ball," Rauch.said. "I dence about campus attitudes. 
would expect some legislation in "When you tell the administra­the next couple weeks regardingtion there are problems and you implementing this new office."
need things changed, they ask for specific examples," Dowdall said. 
Committee on University Affairs 
McCord said the committee When the new senators took
now hopes to add a theology elec­office last April. the universitytive where students could travel Affairs Committee elected Phil
to local churches of different 
Dittmar and Chris Clement as cu­faiths. "We feel students should chairs. Around a month later,be allowed to know what's avail­Clement resigned because he wasable to them. Our goal is to open accepted into the London pro­people's minds to different expP­
gram, and then in September,
riences," McCord said. 
By LAURA ROMPF 
ln Focus Writer 
At the halfway mark of their 
term: student senators have com­
plet1id a handful of projects and 
now have their hands full with 
new ones. 
"From the implmncntation or sexual assault programs and lhP posting of a 24-hour space policy in all rosidencc halls. to honor code reform and food service changes. we have really taken positive steps to making Notre Damn a bntt1w placr for the stu­dm1ts," said Zahm senator Rvan Bocker. "And I promisf', there is a lot mon• to come. We're not donr 
vnt.'' 
· Whil<' SOlllP snnate cummittens haw bnun morP active than oth­ers. nach of' the snven outlined ambitions in :\ugust and have bf\(m working to accomplish tlws(' goals throu~/10ut tnP V<'ar. 
Committee on Gender Issues 
In lh1'. oast. the senate's CommiLtee on Gender Issues rarnly brought forth resolutions, but this yPar it has been very 
acLi\'P. 
"Gender Issues used to be an idea and issues-orientnd commit­tee, but now we're focused on projects," said co-chair, MaggiP Clark<i. Lyons senator. 
In August, the committee said its main goals were to address 24-hour space issues and create a packet for first-year students to introduce thnm to campus. 
Clarke and fellow co-chair Luciana Heali, Lewis senator, said tlrn 24-hour spacn resolution. which guarantees social space around-the-clock in all residence halls. and the packet, which will includn various resources avail­ablt•. to students, \Vere large accomplishmenlc;. 
"We think if it is al! the infor­mation is tognther in one large book for the freshman, they will go to it all thP time. It will sit on their slrnlves as a refernnce ­almost like tlH' 'dog book,"' Clarke saiJ. 
Aflrr accomplishing both of' 

Report Card Gender Issues: A ResideRce Life: 
A 
Oversight: 
A-
Diversity: 
B+ 
Academic Affairs: 
B+ 
University Affairs: 
B 

Ethics: C-
Total Grade: 
B+ 

these, the committee has moved on to several other projects, including working with Student AITairs to create Sexual Assault Programs in the dorms, creating Freshman Orientation focus groups to study the weekend. researching a new student center and parietals and meeting with Campus Ministry, and research­ing the gay and lesbian cmmnuni­ty on campus. 
"We set seven goals at the beginning of the year and we've met them all,"Reali said. "Now we're deciding what to work on next." 
Committee on Residence Life 
In August, the Committee on Hcsidence Lifo set five main goals: to examine dining hall issues,· provide mon' 24-hour space, deal with maintenance and security issues, and improve Lafortune Student Cfmter. 
Two ofthose projects have been completed and the other three have been researched and are on the way to completion, said Zahm Hall senator and co-chair Ryan BPckcr. 
The committee co-sponsored a resolution to ensure 24-hour spaCf~ for all students and passed resolutions to have discounted­meal packages. "The 24-hour space resolution was by far the most ground-breaking thing sen­ate has done all vear," said com­mittee co-chair kevin Berchou, Sorin senator. 
Berchou said the committee met with food services to work on LaFortune improv~ments. "We recommended that there be bet­ter lighting in the basement," Berchou said. "We also suggested putting a snack bar down there." 
Finallv the committee met "with mainte.nance to inquire about putting clocks in O'Shaughnessy Hall, but were informed clocks were stolen frequently in the past, and it is not practical to replacP them. 
Becker said the committee will turn its efforts towards dorm improvement and maintenance issues for the second half of the t('rm. The committee also hopes 

Dittmar resigned for personal 
reasons. 
"We were definitely set back at the beginning," said current co­chair Bethany Barker, Welsh Family hall senator. "But we are still trying to put forth effort." 
In August, the committee said its main goals were to investigate the surplus of the Generations Campaign, establish centralized tutoring, determine the qualiLy of long-distance telephone service and investigate Health Services. 
Besides researching Broadwing, the committee focused on resolutions from last year rather than those new pr,,­jects. 
The committee worked with Sophomore Class Council to cre­ate a sophomore signature C'\'ent. kept contact with Rec Snorts to ensure revamping of The RocKne Memorial and worked witll stu­dent government to provide funds for Transfer Orientation. 
The committee also combined with the committee on Academic Affairs to form and llonor Code committee that has been meeting with faculty members and researched other school's honor codes. 
"Students should know what to expect when they go into an Honor Code Hearing," said Brogan. "We want to compile a log of past cases and educate stu­dents about all the policies. Overall, we want consistency." 
Committee on Ethics 
Although the Committee 011 Ethics main purpose is to ensure Student Union members act ethi­cally in accordance to the consti­tution, they said in August they hoped to reform the election process. But the Oversight Committee took initiative and investigated election reform and brought forth an amended consti­tution Wednesday in senatP. 
Last year·s committl~e on ethics researched old test files and how they could g1w students unfair advantages, but this year's com­mittee has not followed up on tl1lli issue, nor has it brought any new business to senat1\. 

In August. tlw senatP seemed too ambitious, but has ful­filled several promises. Some committees have been very active, but others have done litllc, hurting the body's produc­tivitv; Overall, the Senate handled large issues and did things that· will bPnelit the student body. 
----------·----------------------------------------. 
._,:E,l,) 

page 6 The Observer . IN FOCUS Friday, December 1, 2000 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Group tries to change with new task force structure 
By HELENA PAYNE 
In Focus Writer 
Under the direction of a reform-minded chair, the CLC has abolished committees and set up a new task force structure to increase productivity. 
"This year my personal goals for the CLC were to see the for­mation of a new structure which would raise the quality of work being done by that body, while at the same time-quelling con­cerns by those within the mem­bership and outside about the quality of work being done by that body," said student body president Brian O'Donoghue. 
The CLC, which usually meets every other week, is a resolu­tion-drafting body of 23 stu­dent,;, rectors. and faculty 


"CLC has changedfor the said have more
and an administrator better this year and explicit, nar­who discuss row, goals.
become a more 
campus from One, for exam­
productive body. " ple is the Task
alcohol to academics. Force for Consistent
Eighteen of Brooke Norton 
the 23 mem­Residence Hall
student body vice president
bers have vot­Policies, much more directed toward sweeping reforms. This is what I feel the duty of the CLC should 
..

be. 
However, O'Donoghue, along with student body vice president Brooke Norton and other CLC members, agreed to change the committee structure because of the attendance problems and lack of interest in some commit­tees. These difficulties hindered output from the group. 
"I know tn the past they had problems with committee meet­ing attendance and having peo­ple being excited about it," said Norton. "CLC has changed for the better this year anq has become a more productive body." 
The committees have been replaced by task forces, which 
o· Donoghue 
and Norton 
ing status, the other five fill advisory capacities. 
In years past, the CLC has written many resolutions to the Office of Student Affairs to address concerns about drivers parking on outdoor basketball courts or the installation of an ATM machine at North Dining Hall, among other issues. These issues were addressed by com­mittees that met in some cases infrequently to create surveys or write resolutions for the entire CLC's approval. 
This year, though, the group has directed itself towards more sweeping reforms. 
"Whereas past bodies would pass resolutions that made small incremental changes," O'Donoghue said, "This body is 
recently 

changed from the task force for the disparity between male and female resi­dence halls. Last year, this topic was covered under a Gender Relations Committee with less tightly-defined purposes. The new task force system, however, encourages more in-depth research to get to the root of campus issues. 
"The task force system as a general whole has helped the CLC in many ways. Many of the Task Forces are meeting more often than their committees ever did. I have heard of certain Task forces meeting up to three times in a given week. That never used to happen," said O'Donoghue. "Furthermore, inside those 

The new task force structure encourages focus, but "task force" is just a more proactive syn­onym for committee. During the fall semester, the CLC has passed few resolutions. but members show enthusiasm. Perhaps, once all the task forces adjust to the new structure, they'll speed up production in the spring. 
groups good hard research is being done to make sure that they are certain about their facts." 
The Task Force for Consistent Residence Hall Policies, along with the Student Senate, was responsible for surveying dorms regarding their 24-hour space policies. Thus far, this CLC has not passed as many resolutions as last year's, but O'Donoghue claimed they have been just as productive and the task forces have allowed more time for thorough analysis of campus issues. 
"Currently, the Task Forces are working on some of the most controversial issues ever seen by the CLC at one time," O'Donoghue said. "We simply cann·ot afford to make a mis­take." 
Norton said the CLC plans to examine issues such as the Honor Code and students moving off campus. She said that the task force system has boosted the CLC's output, but she would like to see some improvement. 
"I just hope that we can kind of speed up the process a little body," said Norton. 
Even with fewer CLC resolu­tions this semester, O'Donoghue said the new body functions well and is committed to serving the University. 
"Before, it seemed like folks were working just to have some­thing done for the next meeting. As a result the product some­times lacked the full research it could have had. The result of such past half-hearted efforts was a body which was losing respectability and frustration membership," said O'Donoghue. "Sure there are disagreements on the floor, but that, to me, just shows a passion on the part of the membership to see the best possible product. This body cares about how it repre­sents itself to the University Community, a concern which used to not be given such high priority. The result is better work is being done for the Notre Dame community." 
The uninvolved say they weren't hooked early enough 

By HELENA PAYNE 
In Focus Writer 
While student body president Brian O'Donoghue and vice president Brooke Norton urged students to "Believe" in student government, some students don't have time to believe and others have found interests elsewhere. 
Sophomore Kevin Romero was once highly active in stu­dent government during his high school years in Las Cruces, New Mexico. Romero was elect­ed as a class president for three consecutive years and became the student body president his senior year. Like Notre Dame, the student government in Romero's high school spon­sored service projects and other student events and activities. The one difference is that in Romero's school, student gov­ernment was also a class that offered elective credit. 
As a freshman at Notre Dame. however, Romero opted not to get involved with student government because he didn't receive information about it until he felt it was too late. 
"When the freshmen elections come up I don't think it's very clear that in order to run for a class office, you have to be elected in your hall," Romero said. 
Freshmen elections, which occur at the beginning of the school year, determine the freshmen council, which con­sists of freshmen representa­tives from each residence hall. 
"Generally the people who get involved early ... those are peo­ple who will probably be involved actively their entire career here," said Romero. 
He said that this deterred him from getting involved in student government 
"My impression of student government ... I feel like not a lot of people have access to it," said Romero. "The system is not really clear to those who aren't directly involved in it." 
Since freshmen year, Romero has joined three vocal groups at the University including the Glee Club, the Undertones, and Voices of Faith Gospel Choir. He is also a student manager for Reeker's. 
"I just pursued things that interested me and things that I felt I had enough time to involve myself in," Romero said. 
Now. Romero said he doesn't have a clear definition of the purpose of student government. 
"To be honest, I can't tell vou exactly what student gove·rn­mcnt does," said Romero. 
When he does hear about events, he usually unable to attend because of conflicting activities. 
"Generally it's not because I don't want to [attend student government-sponsored events] but it's because I already have something to do," Romero said. 
Like Romero, junior Rachel Rothrauff also had an initial interest as a freshmen in stu­dent government, but unlike Romero, she heard about fresh­men representative elections soon enough to participate in her dorm's elections. Although she won and spent her first year active in student govern­ment, she has since decided to pursue other activities as well. 
Currently, she teaches a step aerobics class for RecSports and she works at the phone center. 
-"With time constraints, you can only do so many things here and the stuff I'm doing now is stuff I enjoy more," said Rothrauff. 
Rothrauff said that while in student government as a Notre Dame freshman she felt that she had done more in high school on student government. 
"! did a lot of stuff in high school, way more than do I 
see OPINION/page 8 Friday, December 1, 2000 The Observer . IN FOCUS page S 


SAINT MARY'S STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 
Bouncing Back 
After a controversial election, Crissie Renner and Michelle Nagle had to unite a fractured student 
body. What they didn 't know was that it would take another controversy to actually do it. 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 

In Focus Writer 
The prnsiclential election of 2000 was not Board of Governance's shining moment. 
Crissie lfonrrnr and Michelle Nagle won an Cllcction that is reminicent of tlm current presidential camaign. After failing to secure a majority of votes in the initial elec­tion, the race wrmt to a run-off, where the votes cast ended in a lirst-ever tie. After another revote declared their opponents, Emily Koelsch and Rachele Hodarte the winners, a last-minute appeal by Renner that called attention to improper runoff procedures gave the Renner/Nagle ticket the presidency. 
But the newly-elected duo did not have time to celebrate their victory last February, as a greater task laid ahead: the task of uniting a student body, half of whom did not support their ticket in office. As the student body stormed a Board of Governance meeting shortly after the deci­sion was announced, a tearful Renner and Nagle admitted they had reluctance to entnr their offices. 
"I never thought we would assume office aftnr the complaint was liled," Nagle said that evening in an interview with The Observer. "It makes me doubt how much I wanted this position when I hear how adamantly students are opposed to what the Elections Commission and Election Appeals Board decided." 
The ticket did assume office last spring, and after a year that has produced both succr.sses and challenges for the Board of Governance, thn ticket that once sat in a BO(; meeting apprehensive to lead Urn stu­dnnt body has emerged as a brilliant administration. But so much of that has to do with the r.ircumstances ·under which thny were elected, both women will admit. 
"We heard when the election happened, that studenl'i will move on," Renner said. "Wn wnre told that students' eyes would be opened to us as leadnrs. and if we led, the studrmt body would follow." 
But finding the strength to lead had to come from insiclo, and aft1)r a tumultuous election. th~ ticket was forr.ed to find the molivalions Lhal led Umm to run for oflicc in the first place. That meant trusting their leadership abilities, Nagle said. 

"fThe election] had a very humanizing effect on us," Nagle said. "We know how we came into office. But if we had doubted ourselves for a minute. we would have never run for office. We know that we want to be connected to the women that we rep­resent." 
Constructing an administration that 
prides itself on its open-door policies, the opinion of the student body has been an element that is central to every decision that Board of Governance has made this year. Stressing the need for communication and education among board members before decisions can be made, the interests of the stu­dent body are something that is central to every decision the board makes, Renner said. 
"My mother always told me that you can't listen with your mouth 
A-
The Renner/Nagle admin­istration has proven itself as strong leaders in trying times, including the 2000 election debacle, the Junior Class T-Shirt and the Keenan Revue decison. The year of trials has produced two student leaders who exemplify what student leaders should be. 
open," Renner said. "I have learned to lis­ten. I have learned that the student body speaks when they knock on your door ­and when they're not knocking on your door. 1 wake up each morning knowing that I am student body president, and that I represent 1500 women who I care deeply about." 
Renner's commitment to fairly represent­ing each student at Saint Mary's draws a line between her role and vice president Nagle's role on the board, however. While Nagle is a voting member in the body, Renner said that her role as president forces her to keep a more unbiased posi­tion on controversial issues to allow her to fairly represent all women's viewpoints. 
"While there is nothing in writing that says I have to remain neutral, realizing that I do represent each of these women can make me feel that way," Renner said. 
But it is not always pos­sible for a president to remain neutral, as Renner learned when the Junior Class Board designed the infamous "Girl of Choice" T-shirt and outcry from the student body over the shirt's inappropriate theme resulted. As the student body divided into pro-shirt and anti-shirt camps, Renner and Nagle's role began to merge, Renner said. Announcing the decision to purchase the shirts from the board and pre­vent their sale, it was the first time the student gov­
ernment had ever sanctioned a Class board. 
"I don't know if the T-shirt decision counts as one of our successes," Renner said. "But it was a chance for BOG to shine. It truly opened the door of student govern­ment to the community -whether stu­dents were in support or not in support [of the shirt], we heard so much feedback." 
After the fracture in the student body caused as a result of the 2000 election, the decision presented a united picture of stu­dent government to the student body. 
"It was definitely a chance for student government to demonstrate what they stood for as a whole," Nagle said. "It was a powerful educational tool for a lot of differ­ent reasons ... I think it really showed the student body that student government does have an affect on their lives, and that their voice counts." 
While both political crises have defined an atypical term for the ticket, the year has taught both Renner and Nagle how to mature as leaders. And being leaders means learning that no matter how badly they want to receive consensus among their constituents, they know that they can't be everything to everybody. 
"You learn so much about what Saint Mary's is as an institution, as a community, and as a family," Nagle said. "But there is a constant pressure to be something to everybody." 
"I have personally learned that if I'm seeking to please, then I am setting myself up for failure," Renner said. ''I've learned not to walk out my door everymorning feel­ing that I have to please everybody. The student body will stand behind me no mat­ter how I was elected." 
As their term comes to a close with the onset of the campaign season again in January, the lessons and leadership learned could be enough to carry one half of the Renner/Nagle ticket into the presi­dency next year. 
But it's too soon to make those decisions, Nagle said. 
"[Student body president] is a possibility," she admitted. "But I really try to take each day as it comes, and for now, that means living each day as vice president." 

"At times we had to unbind our­board had different opinions "It was an outlet to show what were not well lit or appeared selves from the platform (Lo meet about the shirts, but ultimately, we can really do," Nagle said. unsafe. the needs of the student body.]" they were all purchased and Renner and Nagle have also Next semester, Renner and
Renner 
The Benner/Nagle term has destroyed. progressed in security on cam-Nagle will also be addressing the continued from previous page been anything but void of contro­"The junior p u s issues of abroad student voting, versy, however. They wrestled T-shirt was an Throughout the Study Days proposal and the 
able. with the junior class T-shirt, opportunity for "We tried to make our the year. BOG Keenan Revue debate. Both women acknowledge that which stirred up controversy BOG to shine," spoke with The Renner/Nagle platform
best efforts to meet the 
tlwir platform goals were mini­with its suggestion of a rivalry Nagle said. "It Saint Mary's may have been minimal, but both 
students' needs." 
mal. between Notre Dame and Saint was a time Security about women have performed well 
"Our platform was a student Mary's women. when the stu-students' con­under pressure and appear pas­platform," Nagle said. "We tried The event made Renner look at dent body got Michelle Nagle cerns and sionate about their roles. to make our hest effort to meet her job a little diflerently. educated campus safety. "This is my life," Renner said.
student body vice president
the students' needs." "It was a time when I realized about their BOG also orga-"It is a twenty-four hour job. I am 
They agreed that they keep the that I could not please everyone," student gov-nized a a figure for this campus and yes; p(alform small because they she said. ernment." "Security Walk" in which BOG it's overwhelming at times. I could not foresee the future con­The shirt was the first in Saint Despite the controversy, both members, security officials and would do it again in a second for cerns of tho student body. Mary's history to be sanctioned women believe that the shirt other students surveyed the cam­our campus and for my personal 
"We couldn't forsec what the by the Board of Governance. The ordeal made them better leaders. pus and addressed areas that character." year would hold," Renner said. 


The Observer . IN FOCUS Friday, December 1, 2000 
Kahn bridges gap between students and trustees 
By MOLLY McVOY 
In Focus \'(Tricer 
The opportunity to directly influence what the Board of Trustees decides is a unique one afforded to the student trustee at Saint Mary's. The student trustee is a full voting member of the Board, · a situation not found at many other schools. 
"Most of the ma,ior decisions on campus happen on the Board, and for us [the student body] to have a voice is a really important situation and a sadly unusual one," said Molly Kahn, this year's student trustee. 
Because of the unusual role the student trustee plays in the College's decision-making process, the trustee's primary responsibility is to serve as a voice for the student body on the Board of Trustees. 
"l think the purpose of the trustee is really to be a voice of the students to the Board of Trustees." said College president Marilou Eldred. "Their job is to bring issue of the students to the Board." 
Part of the job of the trustee is to have an understanding of the issues that concern the student body. Kahn hopes that a reinsti­the Board about what Saint of appointment is the most suit­"We're looking for a student ly important; the trustee not only tution of "office hours" this year Mary's does to help seniors with able method. who has a sense of what the stu­represents the student's inter­

has allowed students to 

plans after graduation." "I like the process as it is dent voice in th.e Board of ests, but the Board's as well.
approach her with their con­

Aside from bringing student now," Eldred said. "I think an Trustees would be, someone "As a student on the Board of cerns. 
concerns to the Board, the appointed position is appropri­who has given thought to the Trustees, it is my responsibility"I try to be really accessible trustee often acts as the student ate. The faculty and administra­major agenda items for stu­to express student concerns,
and open," Kahn said. 

voice in any questions the Board tion have a broader view of the dents," Timm said. "She also ideas, questions and comments,"Sometimes people come to me has about issues at the College. college. We want to choose the needs to have a plan for how to but it is also my responsibility towith problems and concerns they 
"Molly clearly brought an student who solicit student educate students about the
have. A lot of students came to important perspective when we we think will input so she is Board of Trustees," Kahn said. 

me telling me about Dalloway's "/ try to be really
[the Board] talked about Master best represent not just repre­The part of her job that or security. This allowed me to Plan and the student center din­. the student accessible and open. senting stu­involves informing the studetns go to the Board and direct the ing hall project," Eldred said. body." dent govern­about the Board's activities is
Sometimes people come
next step." 

"She was able to be very articu-Linda Timm, ment views one that Kahn is constantly
At the fall meeting, aside from to me with problems and
1ate as to why that was so vice president and her views, working on, she explained. Aside the dedication of the two newest important to the community life for Student concerns they have.,, but the stu­from the e-mail sent to the stu­additions to campus, Dalloway's of the students and college in Affairs, super­dent body's dent body, Kahn is looking forand the Welcome Center, many general." vises the selec­views." ways to communicate the
student issues were on the agen­Molly Kahn
The student trustee is appoint­tion of the stu­In addition Board's plans to the students. 
da. Kahn also plans to bring student trustee
ed by a committee of faculty, dent trustee. to being a stu­"There's a lot of interest in more such topics to the next 
administrators and students T i m m dent voice to what the Board does," Kahn
meeting in February. 

When asked whether an elected explained that the Board, the said. "Right now, I'm at the point 
"The Board discussed the 

trustee would more accurately the appointment process looks trustee acts as a representative of trying to hammer out howissues with new facilities, athlet­represent the student body's specifically for a person who will of the Board to the student body. best to inform everyone." 
ics, personal safety and student needs and opinions, Eldred said accurately represent the student Both Eldred and Kahn felt that And of providing a bridgediversity board," Kahn said. "In she feels that the current system population. both responsibilities were equal-between both sides.

February, I'm looking to talk to 


BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Renner/Nagle focus on opening up communication 
. Duo works with administrators and student leaders 
By AMY GREENE 
In F(icus Writer 
When Crissie Renner and Michelle Nagle ran for student body president last spring, the main focus of their platfom1 was to increase communication between the administration, stu­dent government. and the stu­dent body. 
Since taking office, that's what they've spent most of their ener­gies on that effort. 
Renner and Nagle worked with the administration to develop the new Dalloway's and also collabo­rated with the Strategic Planning Committee in their planning. 
"I am very impressed with the staff for approaching the Board of Governance and extracting the students' input. We nO'w have students sit on all the planning committees," Renner said. 
The Board of Governance also distributed a survey to all stu­dents for their input for the strategic planning. 

To increase communication between the five different gov­erning boards, Renner and Nagle encouraged the co-sponsorship of events. According to Renner, the co-sponsored events, such as the Athletic Recognition Pep Rally, are bigger and better attended than they were before. Both women believe that this synergy between the boards is their greatest success. 
Renner and Nagle also focused on communication between stu­dents and the Board of Governance. BOG newsletters have been available in certain areas on campus in the past, but not all students knew the newsletter existed. Renner and Nagle ensured that the newslet­ter was distributed to all students in their personal mailboxes each month. The newsletter allows students to become aware how the Board of Governance votes on certain issues and also what events are being planned on campus. 
The Board grew when Callie Kusco was named as the first Progamming Commissioner. She assists in organizing Pride Week, 
B+ 

Board of Governance has successfully executed Pride Week, co-sponsored events, and streamlined communi­cation between leaders and students. Renner and Nagle's "synergy" campaign promise has come to life. 
I 

Midnight Madness, Winter Carnival. and assists the Communication Commissioner. 
The Renner/Nagle platform also attempted to extend hours at the .library and the post office. Both Renner and Nagle approached the Library Committee, as well as, the post office, but administrators decided not to keep those offices open longer. 
Renner and Nagle also were unable to increase the amount of Munch Monev for students, but complimentary guest passes to the dining hall were made avail-
see RENNER/next page 


(J:,3)  
Friday, December 1, 2000  The Observer . IN FOCUS  page 3  
NOTRE DAME STUDENT Boov PRESIDENT  

Working for the future 
0 'Donoghue and Norton focus on a mix ofstudent services and new programs 
By LAURA ROMPF 
In focus Writer 
Although students may not realize the impact of the current olllcc of the student body presi­dent, several programs it has implemented are designed to benefit students for years to come. 
Student body president Brian O'Donoghue said the Rector's E1Jdowment Fund was a cam­paign promise and a great accomplishment for the office. One-third of the profits from The Shirt sales goes into a separate fund, available for students to use for medical school applica­tions, football ticket<;, section din­ners or other costly items. 
Although only $906 of the fund's allotted $34,000 had been used as of' Nov. 15, O'Donoghue sa~.d he expected the slow start. 
WC Ve established the 


"It was the

"A lot offolks say
fund for the 
first for that

f'uture," students are apathetic. 
type of opera­
O'Donoghue 

but we proved them tion," Smith
said. "What's 

important is wrong beyond a doubt." said. "Next 
year, hopefully, 
there is money 
it will continue.
out there to 

Brian O'Donoghue We've paved
help students ... 

student body president the way, did
It's early and it's -young. These things need time to develop. People need to be aware its out there." 
()'Donoghue, student body vice president Brooke Norton and chief of staff Jay Smith said the fund has not been highly publi­cized because of its personal nature. 
"We want to recognize the dig­nity of the program," Smith said. "It's more about support for the students than publicizing our accomplishment." 
A-

The Office of the President has fulfilled almost every campaign promise with only a few exceptions. Compared to recent administrations, the office has gone above and beyond expectations, acheiving goals few thought possible. 
The office said they are also proud of the Founder's Day car­nival, even though rainy weather caused a low turnout for the event. Smith said he hopes the next office will build on Founder's Day so it will become 
and arinual 
event. 

the work and proved it can be done." 
"We got 30 different groups involved instead of normal events that are just planned by one body," Norton said. "The stu­dents who did go said they liked it and were happy with it." 
The third significant accom­plishment the office completed is sending students to the Board of Trustees winter meeting. 
"This has never happened before," Smith said. "Students 
Cheers and Jeers 
Cheers 

O'Donoghue's optimism: Backed by his ambitious personality and significant amount of time and energy, O'Donoghue has accomplished twice as much in half a term than the previous stu­dent body president did the entire year. Only suggestion: sleep. 
Founder's Day: The Gravitron on campus? Felt like a country fair right here at Notre Dame. However, it pointed out one impor­tant fact: Odie is not God. While he's accomplished a lot, he can't control the weather. 
Polite Applause 

Hector's Endowment Fund: Good idea, just not useful. If only $1000 of the $34,000 is used, can't that money be put to a better use'! Maybe add it the $3 billion endowment because it's not big enough yet. 
Student to Board of Trustees: A major goal is accomplished. The students' voice is heard. But if students won't voice their opinion or more accurately, don't seem to care, how can representatives go to board with "student opinion?" 
Jeers 

Changing SafcHide's name: News flash, it's not the name, it's the program. It has been revised, and changed and revised again. l'utting morn time and effort into the program probably won't change the number of volunteers to drive drunk students around. 
PrornisC'd (;rnb'n'Go in DBRT: Got votes. Now the ot1ice claims it is the Senate's duty. As a former senator. shouldn't Odie have known not to promise something that was a "senate duty"? 
will be going to the meeting in Washington, D.C., in February." 
The office played a large role in the report to the Board of Trustees in the fall focusing on alcohol use and sexual assault. 
"We got a great response from the Board," Smith said. "The issues were taken very seriously. They are often not talked about and we felt they needed to be addressed." 
The office contributed to orga­nizing the sale of The Shirt for Basketball and hopes to finish a project called the Greatness Grant, which will provide funds for students who want to do ser­vice or other works of ministry. 
Hoping students would become active in Election 2000, the office planned debate and election watches in LaFortune which were well attended. They also helped register 1000 voters, gave away 1500 absentee ballots and helped plan a Congressional debate in South Bend. · 
"The students' voice in elec­tions is absolutely necessary. A lot of folks say students are apa­thetic, but we proved them 
wrong  beyond  a  doubt,"  
O'Donoghue said.  
During  the  campaign,  

O'Donoghue and Norton said thev would work for student dis­emits at local businesses and a scholarship service. O'Donoghue said they have communicated with local businesses and soon will have a discount card avail­able, primarily for use at restau­rants. The scholarship search is currently available online. 
Although the office wanted to expand the Internet book-swap, they were unable to work with some organizations, so Smith said they hope to run a book­swap at a location where stu­dents can exchange books with each other. 
"There are always signs around the dorms and campus where students are trying to sell books," Smith said. "We are look­ing to provide a centralized loca­tion where those selling and those buying books can come together." 
O'Donoghue and Norton cam­paigned saying they would estab­lish a satellite Grab'n'Go site in DeBartolo and a Reeker's-like cafe in North 
The office is also helping to plan a celebration of Martin Luther King week, including a forum for students, and Blessing Unto Others, a Christian rock concert whose proceeds will go to an orphanage in Chile. All these endeavors, plus several other projects, have kept the office busy, and enthused, even after the midway break in their term. 
"Last year at this time, we had 12 people tops still in this office working hard," Smith said. "This year we still have 50 to 60 people who are dedi­cated towards their goals." 
O'Donoghue, Smith and 
Norton said 

Dining Hall. they still
"Last year at this time. 

O'Donoghue want to hear 
said these we had I 2 people tops in students' sug­issues are now this office working hard. gestion for being handled new projects
This year we still have 

by Student they could
50 to 60 people

Senate. work on until The office who are dedicated April. does have a "Every per­
towards their goals. " 

full list of cur­son who has rent projects in made a sug­the works, Jay Smith gestion to our which includes chief of staff office, we fol­
hosting an off­campus infor­mation session for students mov­ing out of dorms. revamping the diversity program by first edu­cating and training the commis­sioners in the dorms, revising the Safe Ride program and hosting a community mentoring program that will bring eighth graders from the area to Notre Dame for an a11-day conference on life and leadership skills. 
low through 
with it," O'Donoghue said. "We deter­mine the feasibility and try to make it work." 
"I have a lot of friends who fit into the ·critical of student government' group," Norton said. "rt lrnlps to reassess what we should be doing here. \\.'n want to know what would make the most students happy. We still want suggestions." 


Tim Logan 
In Focus Editor 
ONE PERSON'S VIEW 
Let's open the doors 

For the first time in recent memory, thE' Notre Dame student body has a leader. 
Brian O'Donoghue sincerely wants to make this University a better place; he wants to take the talent and potential of the students of Notre Dame and realize a vision of a greater l'nivt,rsity. 
But the students he wants to lead don't know that. And that is a problem. 
In preparing this special section. Observer staffers talked to hundreds of stu­dents about their govern­ment. And the most fre­auent thing people said about it was "I don't know.•· 

Students don't know what their government is doing. ThPv don't know that O'!Jonoghue and vice presi­dent Brooke J\ionon created a hmd to help them whPn thev need a plane ticket home in an emer­genc~. They don't know that the Studem ::,enate is trying to expand sexual assault edu­l'atlon on campus. 
Thev don't know because thev don't hear about\t. And thev don't hear about it because so much of what·o·oonoghue·s administration does is done behind closed doors. 
Student government has always had a repu­tation as something of an insider's club. This year that reputation is deserved. While small sections of the student body are consulted when our leaders are deciding what to do, too many decisions are made with not enough con­sultation. 
~.1-> 

page 2 The Observer . IN FOCUS Friday, December 1, 2000 
Tryiµg to make a connection 
. Government describes attempts to find student concerns 
By FINN PRESSLY In Focus Writer 

Perched just feet above the HuddleMart, Notre Dame student government has long been accused of keeping itself too far removed from mainstream campus life. Student body president Brian O'Donoghue claims h~ has worked this vear to break down those barri­ers by maintaining the channels of communication in thr dorms and around campus. 
"It's safe to say that Brooke, Jay and I aren't hiding up in the second floor of Lafortune," he said. refer­ring to student body vice president Brooke Norton and chief of staff Jay Smith. 
Though all three have extensive background in student government, they feel that O'Donoghue's cam­paign for president exposed them to the broadest slice of student life. 
"We went door to door and talked to every single student on this cam­pus," O'Donoghue said. 
He also credits the mix of person­alities in student government for helping to expand the office's scope. 
'There's no three more divergent personalities on this campus," he said of himself, Norton, and Smith. "We come from very different groups ... we don't hang out togeth­er on the weekends." 
Smith echoed a similar sentiment. 
"It's not like the three of us are inseparable and we hang out," he said. 
With their term now past the halfway mark, members of student government rely mainly on the mechanisms of campus government to gather information from students. 
"We go through our division heads, and the heads of our commit­tees. They're most­ly freshmen. 
"It's safe to say that

sophomonis, and ments. juniors, with some Brooke, Jay and I aren't "I personally seniors," said stu­read the Viewpoint 
hiding up in the second 

dent government page [of The
floor ofLaFortune."

director of public Observer) reli­relations Dave giously, and Zachn. "I assume know most peop!P
Brian O'Donoghue

they speak with the in student govern­
student body president

students in their ment do. too,'' 
tried to ask people in the dorm what's going on. Some people say 'I don't care,' and some people give me an idea, and I go with it," Zachry said. 
O'Donoghue also said that dorm life heightens awareness of campus issues. 
"Brooke and I both live in resi­dence halls, so we gain input through that," he said. 
Campus media also functions as a 
forum for sugges­
tions and com­
dorms." 

The nexus of interaction between students and government, he said, are the hall council metings within the residence halls. 
"Hall Council is where most of the action should take place," he said. [deas and concerns brought up at Hall Council are then radiated to student senators, hall presidents, and then on to the Office of the President 
Outside the meetings of the Hall Council, members of the student government try to make themselves available to input from their neigh­bors. 
"In my three years, I've always 
Zachrv said. 
With all these avenues of input, however, some students concerns are still not addressed. According to Smith, deci­sion making also takes into consid­eration those students who have no: brought forth their issues. 
"In our thought process, we have to think about them. We can't just think about students who are active ... we have to think about everv­body,'' he _said. "That's why we strive to be responsive to as many students as possible, because that's who we try to serve." 
Tim Logan contributed to this report. 

And once the decision has been made, and our student leaders sit down to talk with each other and the administration. to hammer pro­posals into reality, everyday students are even more removed. They aren't told what's going on; often they're not even told when something is accomplished. 
Student government is not the only side to blame for this, however. 
If our representatives are insiders, most of the represented are indifferent. Students mock their senate and they ignore their president. And they don't give them a chance. 
Student government held open forums about the alcohol policy at the start of the year, and attendance was low. Last December, the Student Union Board had a forum about cam­pus concerts, and just a few people showed up. Ifwe expect student leaders to act as our spokespeople to th-e administration, we need to tell them what to say. 
Granted. student government has an image problem. Some past presidents have seemed to do little more than talk a lot and throw barbe­cues. attended mostly by other student govern­ment members and their friends. 
O'Donoghue wants to do more than that. He wants to use his office to make life better for Notre Dame students (and not just by supplying them with occasional free hamburgers). But, at the same time. he and his staff have a problem communicating with those students, to find out how they want their life bettered and to tell them when things change. 
Effective student government requires steps in two directions. It requires the governors to take a step towards the students, and it . requires the governed to take a step towards the leaders. 
Let's take those steps. Let's talk to each other. Let's open the doors. 
Describe student government in one word or phrase: 

Student Opinion 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
""effective"

Students Students · 
Do you think student government is effective? 

¦ 75'lHes 
"·puppets,. 
. 21%No· 


. 12% NA/Unsure 
. 4% NA/Unsure 
"·a voice for 

85 % of ND freshmen said yes 
the students" 

but just 63% of ~D seniors Do vou think Student government "they're 
• V ?
represents your concerns. 
there" 


¦ 56% Yes 8131% No 


""straterrery"
e-•
. 12% NA/Unsure 
""dedicated"

83% of SMC sophomores said yes but 
just 27% of SMC seniors 
"I don't know" 

Can you name your student senator/BOG rep.'? 

•• respons1)·11e " 
~ ~~ .:~tit,, 
¦ 48% Yes
¦ 43!16 Yes 
l' ~\,~ ,~r faff ~~~i~ 
1148% No 
. 46%No 
, 

....... 
o 8'% NA/Unsure 
. 6% NA/Unsure 


' -' 
""trivial" 

The vieu•s expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
IN FOCUS STAFF 
Editor: Tim Logan Photography: Tony Floyd Graphics: Katie Annis 
""you can't

Can you name your student body president'? 
print that
,...,;,:, ;~ 
, !'-:,.. m 

¦ 6396 Yes ~':;~Jjlw;,P­
word"

1131%No ID G'I!. NA/Unsure 
o 4% NA/Unsure 
"huh?" Just 26% of SMC freshmen said 
Results based on random telephone suivey ol 333 Notre yes, but 100% of SMC seniors did Dame and Saint Mary's students on Nov. 29 and 30. 
-... ­


. l 
.. ( 
Grading the government 
Finals may be approaching, but student government is just hitting midterms. The Observer looks at our

OCUS 
Friday, December I, 2000 
By CHRISTINE KRALY In Focus Writer 

Rain poured down on game booths and the stuffed animal prizes afforded to the winners. The hard ground turned to mud, and the echoing sounds were not of music and laughter but of raindrops hitting dormant carni­val rides. 
Student government's Founder's Day carnival drew praise from government mem­bers and administration, but few everyday students. Was it just the rain, or was something amiss in the government's planning'? 
Unlike Student Union Board (SUBJ, student government is a body that does not function sole­ly to sponsor campus events and programs. Student government, though. has taken steps this year to organize such events. like the campus-wide Founder's Day car­nival in October. 
Founder's Day, a day of cam­pus outdoor activities including carnival rides and game booths. 
student leaders, and issues 

a report card. A regular feature of The.Observer's News Department. 
On the inside 

was a sort of pet project pro­posed by student body vice presi­ Edgington. The idea was then sent to Peggy Hnatusko, head of  and WVFI. After all the planning and all  Inside  
dent Brooke Norton at the begin­ the  Financial  Management  the groups involved in the pro­ 
ning of the 2000 school year. Norton first brainstormed with  Board (FMB), a Student Activities.  division  of  duction, Norton said, many peo­ple were left wondering "whose  . Connecting with students  pg. 2  
student body president Brian O'Donoghue and fellow govern­ Groups like student govern­ment who wish to sponsor an  jurisdiction is it under?" Planning events usually  . Student opinion poll  pg. 2  
ment members and then took  event or program exceeding  doesn't fall under student gov­ 
the idea to Edgington,  advisor  Mary  $5,000 must send a proposal to FMB, whose  ernment jurisdiction because large events are usually SUB  . ND President  pg. 3  
director of Student Activites. "[We wanted to do] a fun thing for stu­ "Mast ofall it comes down to time. You want to make it successful. "  funds come from student activity fees. Founder's Day was approved and govern­ sponsored. "Most of all it comes down to time," Edgington said of plan­ning campus events. "You want to make it successful," she added, noting that the success of  . SMC student trustee . Board of Governance  pg. 4 pg. 4  
dents ... that would be dif­ferent." Norton  Mary Edgington director of Student Activities  ment mem­bers moved to bring in the  events like Founder's Day take months to prepare. Finding the money to make the  . SMC President  pg. 5  
said. She and government  clowns. "I wouldn't  cotton candy flow is often a diffi­culty, too. The student body  . Campus Life Council  pg. 6  
staff held infor­ say it's neces­ president and vice president  
mal talks with the Office of Student Activities and Otlice of  sarily easy," Edgington said of getting proposals approved.  know their budget. Edgington said, and they know the limits it  . Students uninvolved  pg. 6  
Student Affairs who were "really  Problems occur, she said, when  puts on their event spending.  
receptive to the idea." It was then that the project planning  the group does not have the time or funding to sponsor an event.  Some initiatives, in fact, don't work because the money isn't  . Student Senate  pg. 7  
really took off.  Founder's Day, for example, was  available.  
Norton and other members  produced with the help of nearly  Government had planned on  
wrote a proposal outlining for­ seven campus clubs, 11 dorms  
mat  ideas  for  the  event  to  and 20 groups like Food Services  see INSIDE/page 8  



C s 
Friday, December 1, 2000 page 13 
rJ.HE
vnSERVER 
an your room ••• 
arrangements possible in the closet-like cubbies we call home 
215 DILLON HALL 

Best Atmosphere Award 

Dan Maguire (left) and Nick Shumacher are lucky freshmen with their own bathroom that they don't even have to clean themselves. 
Best Room ... For Freshmen 
236 ZAHM HALL 

408 SIEGFRIED HALL 
Neatest Boys' Room 
Boys are notoriously 

messy. Strange odors are 
almost synonymous with 
a boy's dorm room. So it 
is with great honor that 
408 Siegfried receives 
the Neatest Boy's Room 
award. We challenge you 
to find a more immacu­
late, spacious and well­
organized double in any 
of the male residence 
halls. 
Juniors Joe Gleason 

and most especially Mike 
Walsh take pride in the 
cleanliness. Mike is 
responsible for seeing 
that the room is vacu­
umed at least two to 
three times per week. It 
is doubtful that most 
boys, rooms ever even 
Joe Gleason
see a vacuum. But as 
(right) and Mike
Joe tells, it was a ritual 
in Mike's family to vacu­Walsh boast the 
um frequently. most spacious 
\\There some families and well-orga­stress the importance of nized room to be washing hands before 
found In any
dinner, Mike's family 
male dorm,
tradition was to vacuum 
aided by their
before dinner. Every 
variation on the
day. Some habits arc 
traditional loft. 
hard to break. 
Being on the fourth 

floor, this room boasts a higher ceiling than 
most other Siegfried rooms. The extra two 
vertical feet facilitated the construction of 
the most elaborate loft system yet to be seen. 
The beds, rather than resting on supports 
that reach to the floor, are suspended from 
above by a series of supports on the outer 
waHs and chains from the ceiling. 
The loft also doubles as a bike rack. With a 
full six feet and two inches of space beneath 
the beds, this design leaves the floor of the desk lamps. Books and papers are neatly room extremely spacious. Also hanging from stacked and desktops are clear. The walls the loft is a hammock chair to accommodate display tasteful posters. There isn't a scantilyguests who may not fit on the couch or inflat­clad woman to be found in the room. 
able sofa. 
Again, a rare feat for a male dorm room. 

The room is well lit with several floor and Congratulations, 408 Siegfried. 
What in the world is a Bootsv Hooten Flughafen anyhow? Just ask juniors Tim O'Connor, Paul Ricketts and Logan Foley in 21 5 Dillon. Taking its name from a small getaway in Austria that specializes in schnitzel and large containers of beer, the Bootsy Hooten (phonetic spelling, not propr,r German) was a restaurant the boys visited on spring break in Innsbruck. 
This hole-in-the-wall favorite of the boys sits secluded atop a hill in the Austrian Alps with no roads to its door. One might assume that the men in this DiHon triple are attempting to rncrcate the feel of that Austrian restaurant. Flughafen, the German word meaning "to fly" comes from the bus the men rode in Austria. In honor of their trip, the men commemorat­ed their room. For this, the men receive the Best Atmosphere award. 
The coziness of the room is certainly a sentimental throwback to the Austrian venues thev so fondly remember. Chock full of tradition, the Bootsy Hooten trans-


Dan Maguire and Nick Shumacher may be the two luck­iest freshmen on campus. Destined to reside in a triple at 236 Zahm, the boys were delighted to find that their third roomie decided against attending Notre Dame. 
With no other student assigned to their room, Dan and Nick were granted the largest room in Zahm all to themselves. With an extra bed, they were able to cre­ate a day bed, complete with throw pillows, for comfortable television viewing. 
The extra closet serves as a pantry of sorts, holding their refrigerator and food. Perhaps the most enviable feature of this room is the bathroom, complete with shower. The lucky guys don't even have to clean it them­selves; the house keeper comes once a week to do that for them. 
The view from their window is one of the most breathtaking angles of the hallowed golden dome. But there is something even better just beyond their window -a small balcony that they intend to put to good use in warm weather. Currently, the balcony holds the Zahm Christmas tree. Rut the boys have dreams of cookouts and such on their personal por<.;h. 

Again, we must mention the decor of the room, filled with interesting signs and posters ­most taken from girls' dorms or the library, according to th0, boys ~ spider webs that glow when the black light is on and an inter­esting monkey lamp. Is it unfair that these freshmen have such a nice room? 
Indeed. 
Hut rest assured that they will be cramped into a real freshman double by the time they are juniors. Fortune has smiled upon them, and so we don the award of Best Room ... for Freshmen. 
forms into the "Theatre Foley" every 
Thursday for movie night, when as many as 14 people -allowing for moderate · stacking -can be jammed into the room. 
With the accommodation of their mas­
sive DVD powered "Hooten Entertainment 
Center," attendance was so high that it 
seemed only fitting that they convert their 
window box to provide supplementary 
seating arrangements. 

Most notable though is the array of 
posters and pictures in the room. 
Adorning one wall is a 40 square-foot 
movie poster advertising ~ in German ­
the movie "An Ideal Husband." Hardly any 
space on the wall is left empty in this 
small room. The Hooten Wall of Fame 
showcases pictures of the Hooten mem­
bers worldwide. 

The men welcome visitors to the Bootsy 
Hooten Flughafen, where what they lack 
in square footage they make up for in per­
sonality, and where nothing is on tap ... 
because there is no tap. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, December I, 2000 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish swiDllllers enter weekend coillpetition in fourth place 
Ry COLLEEN McCARTHY Spuns W,it<r 
Although final exams are morl' than a week awav, mr.n·s swimming head coach Tim Welsh told his team that t Im y s h o u I d c o n s id e r t his weekend's Notre Dame Invitational meet their final test of th!' fall semester. 
"Our objeclive coming into this ffi('Pt is to look al it as the l'ocal point of the fall semes­ter," said Welsh. 
"The team's focus this year has ber;n to snek improve­nwnt in each meet and swim faster." said Welsh. 
Thursday's closo competi­tion ended with the Irish in fourth place with 305 points. Denison Universitv was in f'irst place with 372 points fol­luwr.d by Michigan State with 365 points and Western Kentucky University with 321 points. Thf> team lost their second place standing after bciing disqualifir.d in the final event of Thursday's meet, the 400 medley relay. 
Going into the rest of meet this weekend. Welsh said the team expects that Thursday's portion of the meet is a good indicator of how the rest of the Invitational will end: in a very close competition. 


LISA VEL TE/The Observer 
Besides seeing a vast 

Two Irish swimmers dive into the water at the start of an event Thursday aftemoon. The Irish are In fourth place after one day of 
improvement in times and fol-

competition.
1owing closely behind third place Western Kentucky in February. This is the first times in individual events. senior Ryan Verlin and sopho­Welsh was pleased with. the the overall standings, the year qualifying times will be Senior Jonathan Pierce and more Clay Miller had qualify­results. 
team is using the Invitational required for the Big East freshmen Matt Obringer and ing times along with junior "Across the board, person as an opportunity to achieve Championship. J.R. Teddy made qualifying Austin Anderson posting a to person, we have been qualifying times in events for The Irish fared well with six times in the 500 yard qualifying time in the 50 yard faster today than we have 
the Big East Championship in swimmers posting qualifying freestyle event. In the 200 IM, freestyle. been all year," said Welsh. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
ONLY 3 HOUSES LEFT, 4,5,6 bdrm, furn, sec.sys!, w/d. PRIME Locations. Util. Included. 233-9947. 
5 bdrm. 2 bath, completely remodeled 8/00, new: fur­nace, roof, carpet, appl., W/D, security & more. Home is on 3 lots. Alum owned, must see. 240-0322 -Jason. 
Turtle Creek Appt. for rent during JPW and during Graduation. Sleeps 4. Info: adipaola@nd.edu 
THIRD ROOMMATE NEEDED (Mor F) for large 3-bedroom house, 1 /2 mi. from campus. Digital cable, full kitchen, W/D, alarm sys-tern, furnished, VERY AFFORDABLE. Call Michael at 233-6445 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND GOOD AREA 277 3097 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Dark Gray Kenneth Cole watch during BC game. Call 1-480-363­1981. 

LOST: MAN'S WEDDING RING IN SOUTH DINING HALL AREA ON MONDAY, NOV. 13. PLEASE CALL KEITH AT 1-6147. REWARD!!! 
LOST: GOLD HEART & 
C.Z. BRACELET AT ND­BC GAME, SECTION 32. GIFT TO MY WIFE, HUGE SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, PLESAE CON­TACT ME@ DUBE.1 @ND.EDU 
LOST: Black pea coat w/Pentax camera in pocket. Please call Kristin @ 2871 or return to Lyons Hall rec-tress, no questions asked. 
WANTED 
Semester Break Employment: PT & FT Temporary Opportunities, 2 min. from Notre Dame. Start Jan. 2. Excellent cus­tamer service skills. Will train. Please send resume to Weight Watchers Business Office (Phone Center) 2202-B South Bend Ave., South Bend, IN 46635, ATTN: Melanie. OR to schedule an interview, please email Melanie at mwagner@www-wmi.com 
CHILDCARE NEEDED: ND prof needs childcare in home T-TH mornings, ide­ally 9-2 pm but at least 9-1. Three great kids, ages 5, 3, 
1. Large comfortable home about 1 mile from campus. Own transportation required. Please call 631­3654 (days), 289-3865 (evenings} or email meiss­ner.1@nd.edu. 
BABYSITTER WANTED 
EVENINGS AND WEEK­ENDS, POSSJBL Y EVERY SATURDAY 8-6 IN THE FUTURE. MUST HAVE A LOVE FOR CHILDREN, IMAGINATIVE AND RELi-ABLE. 3 YEAR OLD BOY. SCOTTSDALE MALL AREA. 
INQUIRIES W/ REF. TO: PO BOX 2931 S.B. IN 46680 
PART TIME HELP WANT­
ED 

Prof. Male, Granger area, needs after-school/domes­tic help, for 2 teenage boys, mon -fri about 20 hrs a week. Non-smoking, fun-loving, with upbeat disposi­tion a must. Cooking, clean­ing, laundry & groc. Shopping. Inquiries w/ ref. To: PO BOX 2931 SOUTH BEND, IN 46680 SOUTH BEND SENIOR HOCKEY LEAGUE Not too late to join a team for this season! Players of all experience levels are welcome. 
No Check Rules Ice Box Skating Rink (5 min. drive from cam­pus) Games Played Once Per Week 
Contact Bill Lerman at 236­5107 Billl@steelwarehouse.net 
FOR SALE 

PHONE CARDS $20 1558 MIN. CALL 284-5145 or 258­4805 
Impress potential employ­ers. Keep in contact with friends and relatives. Student business cares are NOW available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
Looking for a unique gift? Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures and we'll make a 2001 color copy calendar that is sure to be appreciat­ed. THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight PHONE 631-COPY 
Quality Copies, Quickly! 
We're open early, late & weekends. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
FAX IT FAST!!! Sending and Receiving At THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 FAX IT FAST!!! 
High-Speed Copies, Color Copies, Binding, Fax Service, Resumes, Business Cards, Laminating & More! At THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY Free Pick-Up & Delivery! 
PERSONAL 
Wanted: Pimp Call Katie 
Mono? Ha-ha-HA! 
Knott 46 Zahm 24 
Game highlights: "Check it up?" "You were actually playing good tonight -what went wrong?" Timmy with 3 blocks and 3 missed layups Doherty takes one for the team 
Some basic rules about 
baseball: -Make contact first -Don't play when it's 
raining -Watch out for second 
base -it may be muddy -Don't be a batboy -Don't ever play for the 
other team 
May the Force be with you, Krevda 
Room 419 is tripping 
Don't talk so loud -you're not hot 
Puss n' boots 
Everybody loves Chele 
Does April ever sleep? 9 out of 10 say no 
Sorry I couldn't distractyou and make you lose more sleep tonight : ) 

I 
I
Friday, December 1st, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
I 

''What Do We Want From Story?'' 
Conference and Inaugural Lecture 
Includes: 
Margaret Ann Doody, Christopher Fox, Patrick Jehle, Teresa Phelps, Rev. Edward A. Malloy, Vilsoni Hereniko, Michael Rose, John S. Dunne Melvin Pena, Valerie Sayers, & Marina Warner 
Sponsored by the office of the Provost, the Henkels Lecture Series; the Graduate School; and by the Department of Anthropology; the Department of English; The Department of Film, Television and Theatre; the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures; the Department of Music._ 

University of Notre Dame * November 30 -December 2 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday December I, 2000 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 


By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
Even a stripped-down women's swimming team was good enough to grab first place in the Notre Dame Invitational after one day of competition. 
Although several Irish swim­mers did not compete Thursday because of conflicts with class­es, the Irish still lead the seven team field with 374 points. Denison University is in second place with 356.5 points. and Harvard University is a distant third with 269 points. 
"We feel pretty comfortable right now," said Irish wom~n·s swimming head coach Bailey Weathers. "A bunch of our swimmers didn't go today because they had class. We don't want to use up all our misses right away." 
It didn't seem to matter that injured sprinter Carrie Nixon wasn't in the lineup for the Irish. Freshman Danielle Hulick turned in another strong perfor­mance in the 50-yard freestyle, finishing fourth. Junior Brooke Davey finished sixth, and Kelly Hecking won the B final to fin­ish ninth overall. 
"I thought the sprinters Kelly, Oanielle. and Brookehad their best swims of the year," Weathers said. 
Notre Dame also had two strong performances in both relavs. In the 200-yard freestyle relay, the team of Becking, Hulick, Sarah Bowman, and Davey won a tight battle for second place, finishing with a time of 1:37.29. llecking and llulick also learned up with Allison Llovd and Lisa Garcia to win the 4{)0-yard medley relay in 3:52.71. 

"Our relays have really put us in a good spot heading into the weekend," Weathers said. 
The Irish also performed well in the 200 individual medley. Freshman Marie Labosky won in 2:04.71. Garcia finished in third place, two and a half sec­onds behind Labosky, and sophomore Amy Deger took ninth. 
"We did a great job in the 200 IM," Weathers said. "Marie. Lisa and Amy all had great races." 
Senior Kristen Van Saun turned in a second place effort in the 500 freestyle. She fin­ished in 4:58.42. losing to Denison's Tamara. Carty by only .11 seconds. Sophomores Lindsay Moorhead and Nicole Kohrt finished seventh and eighth, respectively. 
Notre Dame's talented fresh­man class stole the show once again. Of the 13 swimmers who scored points, six were fresh­men. 
"Our freshmen have done pretty well for us so far," Weathers said. "They've responded well to class and to training. They're a very special and talented group." 
The Notre Dame Invitational resumes action today at 10:00 
a.m. with preliminaries. Finals will be held later tonight, start­ing at 6:30 p.m. In addition, Notre Dame's elite diving corps will begin competing on the 1­meler springboard. 
"We're going to do the same thing on Friday that we did today. Some of our swimmers are not going to compete because they've got class." Weathers said. "But on Saturday, we'll have everyone and we'll really be ready to go." 


eMCAT. 
Here's why you'll a 


ass size-

students on average 
s five full-length proctored practice exams 
,ame classes are starting soon! . -line today! www.Princeton ev,ew.com 800-2-REVIEW . 


2001-2002 

Assistant Rector Applications 
for University Residence Halls are now available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 
For More Information call the Office of Student Affairs at 631-5550 or go to www.nd.edu/ -stdntaff/ AsstRector.html for eligibility requirements and to download the application 
Completed Applications must be submitted by February 9, 2001 
Friday, December 1, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 



*HOLY CROSS =· COLLEGE Notre Dame, Indiana 
219-239-8400 
www.hcc-nd.edu vduke@hcc-nd.edu 

Many students are discovering the advantages of an alternate career route: starting tr1eir educational journey at atwo-year college like Holy Cross, and ending it at afour-year institution such as Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
At Holy Cross, you'll receive a Catholic-centered liberal arts education that parallels core courses at four-year institutions. Then, arr.ied with your associate of arts degree, you can finish your education at the school ot your choir:e. 
Yes, there are many roads to choose from, but only one destination: your success. 
e 2000 Holy Cross College 
Basketball 
continued from page 24 
"I think our No. 1 key is going to have to be our defense in shutting down their shooters," Irish guard Matt Carroll said. "They've got a lot of big guys, and we're going to have to play consistent defense the whole game." 
While the Commodores 3­point shooting percentage is well below Notre Dame's nationally leading 54 percent; the Commodores are still averaging about eight 3-point­ers per game. Notre Dame sharp shooters Carroll, David Graves and Martin Ingelsby have fans expecting the ball to drop through the net every time they let one loose from behind the arc, but 3-point shooting won't be enough for an Irish victory. 
"We really have to be able to defend their 3-point shots," Irish head coach Mike Brey said "That gives them momentum and gets their building going, their home court crowd. 
"I hope we just don't come down and shoot 3s on each other because we certainly want to get touches to our big guys down low, Troy [Murphy) and Ryan [Humphrey) and Harold [Swanagan)." 
Vanderbilt should challenge Notre Dame on the boards with five players on its roster who are 6-foot-7 or taller. Williams averages nearly 10 boards per game and is helped by LaPointe's contribu­
tions. 

Defensive rebounding in t.he second half against No. 17 Cincinnati last Saturday helped Notre Dame pull out the victory. Humphrey and Murphy, Notre Dame's power tandem down low, average 
9.3 and 8.3 rebounds apiece, respectively. 
"Rebounding and defense are the keys to winning any game," Humphrey said, "When we play defense, our offense will take care of itself." 
Notre Dame fell short in its last two matches with Vanderbilt, despite Graves going for a career-high 33 points a year ago. The Irish would like nothing more than to strike back at the Commodores. 
"Whenever you lose to somebody the year before," Carroll said, "you always want to go out and beat them. Especially losing to them in the way that we lost to them, that makes you just want to beat them even more." 
The Vandy homecourt advantage won't make the Irish search for revenge any easier. 
Memorial Gymasium is the only Division I arena that has team benches beneath the baskets instead of along the sidelines. The arena, with a seating capacity of 14,100, is a loud one that throws oppos­ing teams off balance. 
"This is going to be a tougher challenge than Cincinnati," Brey said. "People don't really under­stand that, but we're going to have to play on their home­court. Our demeanor and our communication is going to have to be excellent, because we're not going to be able to hear." 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, December I, 2000 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Saint Mary's faces Calvin, Olivet in MIAA matchup 
Nov. 14 versus Olivet ByJANEL MILLER College but was cancelled. Sports Writer 
Because of the Notre 
Dame Invitational the 
There is a point in every schedule was changed. 
season when vou know and the Belles sacrificed 
that your team is ready their home turf. Because 
for the competition. The of scheduling conflicts 
Bf'lles swimming and div­with both teams. the 
ing team is at thal point. Bellcs are now on the 
Coming off a sixth place road for their first confer­finish at the highly com­ence meet. But instead of petitive Wabash swimming one team. the Jnvitational. a win over Belles are going for two. University T h e () f Belles 
Western "They're a tough team, will expe­
Ontario rience
it's going to be a tough
and a slew their only of record meet." h o m e brirnking m e e t swims, the against
Gretchen Hildebrandt
B e I I es A I m a
Saint Mary's swim coach
look to College 
LISA VELTEffhe Observer 

Saturday Jan. 13, 
Freshman Chloe Lenihan competes In the 400-yard backstroke relay at the Notre Dame relays earlier
when they while the 
this season.
finally go majority head to head in a MIAA of their "would be fans" contest against Calvin and are gone for winter break. Olivet Colleges. Saint Mary's enters the 
Sa.int Mary's caught meet with a clean confer­some action against the ence slate. Calvin is 1-0 Calvin women at the after a close win over Wabash Invite and have a Albion College in early rough idea of the competi­November. The Calvin tion. "They're a tough women are coming off a team. It's gonna be a 1999-2000 second place tough meet." said Belles finish in the MIAA and a head coach Gretchen 5-1 record. llildebrandt after the Olivet. having faced Wabash Invite. The Belles Hope College and haven't seen the Olivet Kalamazoo College. reflect women as of yet. a 0-2 start in the confer­
The Belles originally ence meets. The Olivet planned to swim both women placed below the teams at home on sepa­Belles fifth place finish in rate occasions. Thelr first the '99-'00 Championship conference meet was to be meet. at Rolfs Aquatic center on 
.i:: . OKEAr WALL 
¾
)X'~ ,-_. Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row ,,,,, ~-.' .-.. :;,: Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese -American'l:::::f:::3,-, ,.,.. Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
.-_-•--·. 

LunchSpecial$4.75•-Mon-Fri11:30-3:00PM -.• . . 1 Dinner Starting at $6.45 ..• :' -Sunday -T~ursday 11 :30 AM . 10:00 PM
~r:

· . _. · Friday · Saturday 11:30 AM -11 00 PM 
· :/~~ ·' Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 
./',' . I 1 

11 a.m. to 3 p.m. ',, $8.95 for Ad•,lts $3.95 for Children under 1 O 
222 Dixifl Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 

Get the game plan tor Indiana, straight trom Mike Brev. 
N¦ n.l¦ 
Tuesdav, December 5 Pep RallV 1:30pm 
,--;""Bloc.·. Ji :;: ,,. -.•_ ·" -,:_·'.·.· ,,, . , Tip-011 9pm
-.. •j., 

2nd Semester Availability 
Register at the game to win a "The Best Value In Off Campus Living" Coca-Cola vending machine. Professionally Managed b.Y Wear vour MOB I-shirts. Real Estate Management 
You want to look good on ESPN. 
234-9923 



Friday December 1, 2000 

The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

No. 4 ranked Irish take on Tarheels in Disney World 


Irish forward Meghan Leahy shoots a free throw during Notre Dame's 89-44 victory over Fordham Monday night. Notre Dame takes on North Carolina at 1:30 Sunday afternoon. 

11I 

By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Sports Edimr 
The Irish are going to Disney 
World. 

Ruth Riley and the fourth­
ranked Notre Dame women's 
basketball team take on North 
Carolina at 1: 30 Sunday after­
noon in the first game of the 
Honda Elite Classic. The game 
will be played at the Walt 
Disney World Wide World of 
Sports facility in Orlando, Fla. 
The game will be televised on 
ESPN2. 

The Irish come into the game riding high with a 5-0 record after doubling up Fordham 89­44 Monday night. In that game, forward Meghan Leahy came off the bench to lead the Irish with 16 points and 14 rebounds. The previous Friday. Notre Dame topped then No. 5 Georgia to win the Coaches vs. Cancer classic in Madison, Wisc. 
"We've opened up the season and been able to play better than we've ever have at this point in the season," said Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw. "I think that we are really on a roll right now." 
The key for the Irish thus far this season has been an inside­outside game that is very diffi­cult to defend against. With All-American Ruth Riley down low, teams often leave guards Alicia Ratay and Niele Ivey open down low. Either Ivey or Ratay has been the leading scorer for the Irish in all but one game this season. 
"They have the whole pack­age," said Tarheels coach Sylvia Hatchell. "They have the three key things that you must have to be a final four team or a national championship team. They have a point guard, a shooter and a center. They're all as good as anybody in the country." 
2 pm, Saturty, 
December 2, 2000 
.A.nnenberg Auditorium Snite Museum of Art 
Free and open to the public 
For more information, call (219) 631-6201, or visit http://www.nd.edu/-congoers 



love, hl(Mom, Dad, Meg,
B

HAPPY et . Aunt Joan, Uncle 
Frank, Aunt Mary,

IRTHDAY 
& Uncle Len 



( ) 
I ( 
I 
North Carolina enters the 
weekend with a 3-2 record. 
After being upset by Buffalo in 
their season opener, the 
Tarheels have regrouped to 
record victories over Svracuse 
and North Carolina A&i'. 
Hatchell utilizes a fast-paced 
offense that generally results 
in high-scoring games. "People 
like to see teams that get up 
and down the court," said 
Hatchell. "I don't like to play 
those 40 and 50 point games." 
The key player for North 
Carolina thus far this season 
has been LaQuanda Barksdale, 
who scored 23 points and 
pulled down 13 rebounds to 
lead North Carolina to an 81­
68 victory over Syracuse on 
Nov. 19. 
"Barksdale's really the key 
to the team right now," said 
McGraw. "She's played 
extremely well." 
The matchup between the Irish and Tarheels takes place almost one year to the day after Notre Dame topped a North Carolina team that was then ranked No. 9 in the coun­try. Notre Dame won 99-86 in the opening round of the Wachovia Women's Invitational in Richmond, Va. 
"They were a very good team last year when we played them," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw of North Carolina. 
The Irish were led last year by the strong shooting of guard Alicia Ratay. Ratay scored 32 points, including six three-pointers, to lead Notre Dame. 
"She made every shot she took against us last year," said Tarheels coach Sylvia Hatchell. "We couldn't stop her. She was just popping shots all over the court." 
Forward Ericka Haney had one of her better games of the year, scoring 18 points and pulling down 14 rebounds. 



IRISH INSIGHT 

u Freshman Amy Warner penetrates the Michigan defense during NCAA tournament action earlier this season. Today, Warner will make her first start since her injury in early October. 
Top ranking means little against UNC 
Look carefully at the No. 1 sign at the top of Grace Hall. You may not notice at fi..rst, but at the very bottom of the sign there is a little tiny asterisk. Next to that asterisk it says: 
"But they haven't played the Tar Heels yet." 
Notre Dame's undefeat­ed record and No. 1 ha_<; one tiny little llaw­the Irish haven't beaten the best yet. For the first time since 1996, the Irish and Tar Heels did not face each other in the regular season. 
It doesn't matter what the polls say. It doesn't qiatter what the records are. North Carolina is the favorite to win the national title every year. 
"Their history says enough, and it's no different this year," Irish head coach Randy Waldrum said. "Until someone beati; them, 
i~ 

Mike Connolly 
Outside 
looking in 

2000 w:en's Co~e Cup 
,t ) 

,oou'°~i'Hcfa: 'flt' Starters ~ zoo·o'°9°'MC4A, ~H[lfS(OU[G(_p.!1, 12-Amy Warner ~ !QHDl'S(Ol.ll~.HUP. 
Forward[1o-Meotis Erikson Forward[11-Anne Remy 9 Al. L ---r.---· -------.-2&:Meredith.f.lorence 
-1 ove,ace , 32 Al R~' 
8 A M k" -yssa amsey 
Midfield[1~-;:~ey~;:rn c-l ·Midfield n,9-Jena,~u~ru\ 4-Mia Sarkesian I ) L\1&-Jordan Walke{ ?-Monica Gonzalez -·{ ..,.,...,. ?5-~~9i71°:~ 
0,~fenseC!f::it.. _j ___ D~fe~=~~~ma~· 
they're the team to beat, it doesn't matter where they're ranked." 
The Irish should be commend­ed for their 23-0-1 record. Notre Dame is the only team to finish the regular season undefeated and the only top seed in the tour­nament to make the final four. 
But all that doesn't mean squat to North Carolina -even if Tar Heels have three more losses and four less wins than the Irish. 
The Tar Heels just know how to win when it matters. No matter what their regular season record -and its usually pretty close to perfect -coach Anson Dorrance always has his team playing its best in the tournament. 
He has 16 national champi­onship trophies to his credit -15 more than the Irish who are tied for seconµ in all-time champi­onship with just one. In the 11 meetings between the two teams, the Irish have won just twice and managed only two ties. The other seven meetings all ended in Tar Heels celebrations -including last year's championship game. 
So throw the previous 24 games out the window. They don't mat­ter. 
Ignore the 6-1 and 1-0 victories against Santa Clara. Forget about the sixth straight 
Big East Conference tournament 
title. 
It doesn't matter that the Irish seniors have won 88 games in their careers. 
The entire season comes down to just one game. Ninety minutes decide how the 2000 Irish will be judged. 
Taking nothing away from the two other semifinal teams ­Portland and UCIA -but the national champion will be decid­ed in the semifinals. 
Three times in the 90s, the Irish and Tar Heels met in the finals. All three times the Tar Heels won -including last year's 2-0 North Carolina win. 
This will be the third time the Irish have met in the semifinals. The Irish beat the Tar Heels in 1995 to advance to the finals and win their first and only national title. 
Just 90 minutes stand between a very good regular season and a season to remember. Beat the Tar Heels and that No. 1 sign will blaze a little bit brighter and without that annoying little aster­isk. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are solely those ofthe autho and are not necessarliy those of The Observer. 
5 Irish Keys to Victory 

I) Believe 
North Carolina's mystique is unavoidable. They've won 16 of the 19 titles contested. The Irish must avoid getting caught up in history to score a victory over a team that has had their number in the past. Notre Dame enters this game as thc favorite on th11 field. They need to ignorn the tradition and focus on just playing the game. 
2) Hang in There 
The Tar Heels will have their chanccs, their offense is potent and shots are inevitble. The Irish must keep their wits oarly, weather any potential storms, and then find a rhythm from there. The Irish defense will have to bn especially tough. Santa Clara outshot the Irish 18-4 last week. If Notre Dame wants to win, is has to cut down North Carolina's shot opportunites while at the same time taking advantage of every scoring opportunity of its own. 
3) Anne Makinen 
College soccer's best player r,an change games singlehandedly. This is one she might need to alter. Makinen has been involved in 39 percent of' Notre Dame's goals. She needs to use hl'r lead­ership to organize the offense. Makinen doesn't want to cmd her collegiate career with a loss -her competive insticts need to take over and dominate the game. 
4) Midfield to Warner Connection 
With Warner starting her first game since early October, the Irish will have more speed up front. The midfield must control play and feed Warner. She converts the opportunities she gets. It's up to the Makinen-led midfield to get her the bal. 
5) Liz Wagner 
The Irish goalkeeper has played her best in big games this sea­son and tonight's game is the biggest of them all. She may need to make the clutch save. Wagner played her best game of the season against Santa Clara_ Tonight. she has to play even bet­ter. 
-Kevin Berchou and Andrew Soukup The Observer 

5 Heels Keys to Victory 
I) Stop Anne Makinen 
Makinen, one of five finalists for the Hermann Trophy, has scored or assisted on 39 percent of Notre Dame's goals. She needs four assists to become just the sixth woman in Division I soccer to record 60 goals and 60 assists for her career, and a goal like that is just the motivation a P.layer of her fierce compet­itive nature needs for extra intensity. 
2) Mind the Middle 
Because the Irish play with three central midfielders, the Tar Heels will need to help each other out defensively in the middle of the field. They handled that scheme well in the final last year, but they had Lorrie Fair. Lindsay Stoecker and Rebekah McDowell back then. A less experienced UNC defonse could have problems. 
3) Score Early 
The Tar Heels have been at their best and most dominant this season when they have scored early and put games out of reach before they barely have a chance to begin. In their three losses, they outshot their opponents 66-25 but couldn't find the back of the net when they needed to. The longer teams hang with UNC, the more confidence they build. 
4) Meredith Florance, Please Stand Up 
Florance's 25 goals are tops in the nation, and her 58 points place her fifth. Her 1.14 goals per game average leaves her at third in the nation. She has been UNC's most consistent and reli­able scorer this season and can't afford a slump against Elizabeth Wagner and an Irish defense that leads the nation in goals against average at 0.325 per game. 
5) Keep On Rolling 
Ever since the regular season ended, North Carolina has looked like a different team. The Tar Heels gave up one goal in three games in winning their 12th straight ACC title and have maintained that intensity throughout the NCM tournament. The players have freqmmtly said that they feel they have something to prove after being doubted folowing the reuglar season. This is certainly not the most dominant of UNC teams but it still has that extra level it can kick into in the postseason. 
-James Giza The Daily Tarheel 


Goalkeeper 1-Jenni Branam 
..----------------------------------~­
Friday, December 1, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
--~~----­


2000 NCAA Women's 
.vs.

College Cup 



Soccer 
continued from page 24 
season. 
"She seems tough. She's tall. and she's strong and she's got good hands so I think she'll be tough to go up against," said Tar Heel midfielder Anne Remy. 
"They'rn such a high pressure team, so wr, have to be more patient," said Waldrum. "Our defense will have to be at it's best, and it's been good all year, while our offense will have to help take some of the pressure off the defense." 
Offensively, the Irish will receive a boost as Waldrum plans on starting freshmen sensation Amy Warner ­who hac; played only in spurts recently while recovering from a knee injury. Her speed should allow her to team with sophomore Ali Lovelace and senior Meotis Erikson to create plenty of chances. 
Knowing the relentless style that the Tar Heels play, Waldnm1 is aware that his team must do a better job of possess­ing the ball and controlJing play than it has in past outings against North Carolina. 
"They're a pretty direct team. We're not going to stop them from playing the ball forward, we ju-,t have to limit their opportunities," he said. "We're going to have to work hard to win the ball, and we're going to have to control their for­wards. They're a dangerous group." 
Though both the offense and defense will play 1equally important roles in a potential Irish victory, perhaps the biggest key -the one that will unlock the door to the national championship game -lies in the play of the midfield. 

Since the host field is somewhat small­er than a normal pitch, the midfield will play a more important role in controlling the flow of play and working the ball for­ward. 
"The game will likely be won or lost in the midfield. Last year, that was the case. We have to be more dominant in controlling the ball and keeping it," Waldrum said. 
Since the Irish have one of the nation's best mid.fielders in Anne Makinen, they figure to have the edge in the midfield. Makinen didn't play in the second half of last year's finals loss to the Tar Heels and her presence this year will make a world of difference in the Irish midfield. 
"She's one of the best players to ever play collegiate soccer. She'll be their attacking midfielder, and we've got to some how contain her," UNC head coach Anson Dorrance noted. 
While Waldrurn concedes Carolina's forwards arc likely slightly better than his own, he feels his team's strong mid­field gives his squad an edge in the one of the biggest games they'll ever play. 
"I think we're better in the middle, but they probably have the edge out wide," he said. "We don't have to prove any­thing. our record speaks for itself, I don't think we feel any outside pressure. We know what we have to do. 
The winner, or maybe the survivor of thls war, will go on to play the winner of the Portland-UC1A game in the final Sunday afternoon. But Waldrum knows that this game is most important. The two best teams remaining v.ill play each other tonight. 


PataQonia
exdosively 
at-.-.~ 
iminutes~ 
!!.om 0UTP011T 
·campus s ors 
. Comp,tldw"" ...,._ .. 
Call 259•1000 for more details 
Jtist Jtibe 
www. irishwsar. co.m 
"Discover The Star in You" 
Grand Master 
STUDIOS Recording • Production • Mastering , Ouplicatioo • Music & Vocal Lessons Demo Production • Music Equipment Sounds & Lights • Sales & Rental Analog 2• & Digital Hard Drive Systems 
"The Biggest Recording Studio in Northwest Indiana• 
Ads • Commercials • Advert1s1ng • Jingles 
(219) 288-8273 
I 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold 
-25 Categones cf Books 
-25,000 Hardb.sck and Paperback books in 
stock 
-Ou1-of-Pri111 s.:arch service -Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesdau through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
·­

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday December 1, 2000 
WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 

Irish face Buckeyes in 1st round of NCAA tournament 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sporrs W ritcr 
Thn Notre Dame volleyball team, heads to Ohio State this weekPnd as it participates in the lirst round of NCAA tournament play against Cincinnati on Friday. 
Thl\ '.\lo. 19 Irish stand at 25-6 with all six losses being to ranked teams: Nebra.ska. UCLA. Michigan. USC. :VIichigan State and Colorado State. 
'.'lotrc-Dame led the Big East regular-season at an undefeated 11-0 this vear as well as earning the 200() conforence champi­onship title with three-game swPeps ovPr Connecticut and Rutgers. Senior Denise Boylan earnPd the Big East Player of the Year. SeHer of the Year and Championship \!lost Outstanding Player awards while compiling a .28() hitting percentage which ranks lirst in Notre Dame historv. 
Senior co-captain Christi Girton and Junior Kristv Kreher were also named to the all-Big East first team while junior Marcie Bomhack was a conference sec­ond team selection. Freshman Kim Fletcher earned the all-Big East rookie of the year title. Notre Dame rounded out the awards banquet with head coach Debbie Brown earning the 2000 Big East coach of the year. 
The Irish enard Big East play with the fifth of six vears in which they didn't give up a game. Notrn Dame will look for its sec­ond historical win over Cincinnati. The two teams have faced each other onlv once in 1987 when the lrish edged over 'l·e Bearcats in five games 

,ncinnati is currently 24-9anr J -!-2 in Conference USA pla:i,. Shaunte! Miller will look to pose a threat to Irish defense by increasing her 491 total kills in 2000 at Cincinnati's second con­secutive NCAA appearance. 
With a win, Notre Dame will move on to face the winner of the Ball State vs. Ohio State game to be played later Friday night. Ohio State is currently 24-6 with a fourth place finish in the Big Ten and will host its seventh NCAA tournament. The Buckeyes ended Irish tournament play last year in a four-game win. 
Ball State is 25-6 going into its second consecutive NCAA tourna­ment. Megan Hammons le.ads Cardinal offense with 551 kills this season. Notre Dame is com­ing off an end to an 11-game winning streak with a five-game loss to No. 3 USC. Game five sum­marized the match as both teams were back and forth. neither gaining more than a three-point advantage 
until USC racked up a 13-9 lead which led to its victory. 
Kreher will look to put a stop to opponent offense this weekend by increasing her team lead of 250 digs while Girton will hope to execute a stellar offonsive perfor­mance. leading the Irish with 418 kills in 2000. 
The Irish will look to edge over their .500 NCAA tournament his­tory, a 9-9 record in their ninth consecutive appearance. 
Seminoles' season ends at ACC Tourney 
By DAN WESTGATE 
FSView & Florida Flambeau 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
The No. 4 Florida State Lady Seminoles ended their season af'ter losing in four games to the No. 5 Duke Blue Devils (14­16. 10-15, 15-4. 10-15) at the ACC Tournament in .Winston­Salem, N.C. 
"Losing to Duke in the (ACC) tournament was a real disap­pointment for the team," FSU head coach Dr. Cecile Revnaud said. "Duke blocked tremen­dously well in the game, and we just couldnOt break 1hrou_gh," 
Jun10r middle hitter Norisha Campbell posted 16 kills. six blocks, and a .3M hitting per­centage in the four matches against Duke. She was named first-team all-conference bv 1he ACC thP dav prior to the match. 
Lone senior outside hitter .lfrnnifP.r Werrick contributed a match-high 25 digs and lO kills in the match after being named second-team all-conference. 
The FSU offense was run by setter Jennifer Anderson. The freshman had 49 assists in the match. She was named to the ACC All-freshman team. 
And topping the list of awards was Heynaud who was awarded the ACC Coach of the Year for the second time. The last came in 1992 when she finished first-place in the regu­lar season. 

The fourth-place 'Noles fin­ished their season with a record 21 wins and 11 loses and a conference record of nine wins and eight loses. 
Reynaud hopes that the early signing of two student-athletes will improve the team and help them in the 2001-2002 season. 
Aisha Carr, a 6-foot outside and middle hitter from Dallas, Texas and Ashley Meyer. a 6­foot middle hitter from Luling. Louisiana, will be joining the Ladv Seminoles next season. 
"Aisha Carr was a nationally recruited player. "Reynaud said. "She is well developed with the experience of playing for a top club. Aisha is also an excellent student-athlete and a dedicated volleyball player." 
"Ashley will quickly develop into a dominant force at the net. She has a competitive per­sonality which also helps her to excel in the classroom." 
Reynaud is very excited about the future of Lady Seminoles volleyball with these two additions. However. they will have some big shoes to fill with the graduation of Werrick. Reynaud is confident that the new recruits will have opportunities to perform. 
"Jennifer Werrick is the only player that we are losing from this year's team,"Reynaud said. "These two women [Carr and Meyer] will have an oppor­tunity to compete for a starting spot on a young returning team." 

r-----r------------------------------------, 

· 
Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide? 
Ca/I u:; for'\ 
. afree

Th_e TIAA-.CREF 
ADVANTAGE  
;nvestment Expertis(  f  
Low Expenses  ~  


Advantage. 
'{ear in and year out, employees Jt education 2nd research instit1_1tions hc1ve tumed to TIAA-CREF. And for good reasons: 
• 
Easy diversifica1i0n c1mong a range of expertiy managed fund; 

• 
.I\ solid history of performance and excep:ional per;onal service 

• 
A strong commitment ~o !ow Pxpenses 

• 
Plus, a full range oi flexible retirement income options 


For decades, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enJoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is si~ple. 
Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF. 
mformnt1an ;.
package;) 
TUE TIAA-CREF 


ii 
Ensuring the future 1 800.842.2776 for those who shape it.'M 
www.tiaa-cref.org.___ 

For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospec1uses. Read them carefully before you invest. • TIAA·CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributts the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities.• Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA·CREF 08/03 

J 

Ftiday December I, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 24 


EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 28 Mozart's "L'Oca 53 Shacks 1 Adam Cairo" 55 Spain's Victoria 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2000 
Dalgliesh's 29 Drunken Eugenia, creator 30 Obsolescent familiarly 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS much too fast will be the issue. Don't 8 Notch cut into a communication 56 Grand master? 
DAY: Woody Allen, Richard Pryor, expect anyone to come to the rescue. Bette Midler, Charlene Tilton, Gilbert You will have to solve your problems 
board 32 Paleontological 58 Strands, 
O'Sullivan, Carol Alt alone. Financial changes will be fav­
14 Blast furnace study perhaps 
Happy Birthday: Set your sight orable if you have budgeted wisely.input 34 Some club 60 Direction for a on your goals and don't stray. You OOQ 
15 Target of a members 56-Across will want to try everything that LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can deadly attack 36 Jazz bit 61 Stunned comes your way, which would lead count on others to help you achieve to mediocre results. Ii you have tun­your goals. Your tactful persuasion
161 may be 37 Bit of 62 Approvals 
nel vision, you will do far better. will ensure the necessary backing 
replaced by it gunpowder 

63 Company in a With determination and hard work, to follow through on your ideas. 17 Encouraged by 40 Vegetable prominent 2000 you will find success. Your numbers: 00000 others, in a way sponge lawsuit 9, 13, 27, 31, 44, 48 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You 18 Visa statement ARIES (March 21·April 19): You will be in a highly creative cycle. Get
43 Heart's-ease 

must romplete unfinished projects if busy and work on ideas or hobbies
abbr. 
44 It may be corny 

DOWN you wish to keep everyone around that you had put aside. You express
19 Makes a scene? 
46 _ body (cell 1 Amazonian vou happy. Disruptions in your yourself well when dealing with those 21 •_-ching!" part) menace: Var. home will surface if you have not close to your heart today. 0000 spent enough time with family. 000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.
22 Not rouge 48 Old character 
2 Classless one? 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You 21): You desire to travel. Don't hesi­

24 Tie 49 Crusade 
3 It might be done can expect fireworks at home if you tate to plan your vacation early. Just 25 It requires 32 51 "My Heart Will 17-Across have been spending too much time the thought of going away should cards Go On" singer with your friends or on the road. improve your emotional well-being. 
4 Suffix with 
Delays in shipments are likely. Make 0000
26 "Musee des 52 Word before Shakespeare 
your claims quickly. 00 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
Beaux Arts" poet while 

5 It's found in a GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You You can become involved in financial foundry will be the life of the party. Your ventures, but must not overextend quick retorts will keep everyone in yourself. Be sure you put some extra
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Gen. Rommel 
stitches. Theft or losses are evident, cash aside in case of an emergency.
7 Fume 

Puzzle by e,.ndlln Emmen Qulgley so keep track of your wallet and Older family members may need R e A -,+-::+.,,,+,,-+,,,-I E 8 No big babies 29 Blur 45 Has a quiet 53 Bank sight other possessions. 0000 help.00O ""' 9"What_!" 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):31 Jaguar model dinner, say 54Cake will take things the wrong way You can expect an emotional push­today. Extravagance will be a key and-pull with your lover or family
33 Disney's Cruella 47 Comparatively composition
11 Less cheery issue. Refrain from trying to buy members. Try not to be too cool in
De cockamamie 
57 "If I Ruled the 

someone's friendship. You're the one your actions. Put your differences 35 Oversupply 49 Is 15-Down World" rapper who needs to change, not your aside and return to being kind to 
12 She never 
reached 
partner. 000 loved ones. 000
Howland Island 37 Bully? 50 Andrews of the 59 Logophile's 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your rol­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You

38 The planets and L.P.G.A. love: Abbr. 
13 Place for orful exaggerations will bring you can ask arworkers to help you finish signatures popularity, but it may be at the up your work. Don't allow anyone to 15 Facetious 39 Warm Alpine expense of someone's feelings. Think goad you into spending more than
o~era -------------­
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
twice before you make someone else you can afford. Children may be
wind

20 Inc. reader, are available by touch-tone phone: 
the brunt of your good fun. 000 emotionally draining. Ask for advice. perhaps 41 Charges 1-900-420·5656 (95¢ par minute). VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Too OOQ 
E N G _..,.,,.......,._..,, 23 Opener 42 Go through hell Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Birthday Baby: You are fun-loving but also have relentless courage and a

R I O -rl::+:i:+=:+:-R I 25 Crab, e.g. 43 Settle best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
practical outlook that will always help ground you. You are lucky in life and
T A N .......,__.__._..__ K S 27 Poet Sachs beforehand years: t-888-7·ACROSS. 
should reach the goals you set. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
oUR SATH­ANDY, HAVE 
RooM StlllK YOU GONE tS DRIPP1N(,. NUTS? 

THOSE. GUYS CHARGE. $foO 
l'UST To WALK THROUGH 
THE. DooR! LET ME TA.KE 
{ THE EDSEL 
'--~U£AK SQUEAK SNAP WHOOPS. 
TOM KEELEY 
THE 1939 NOTitE DAME 
PLANNING COM/o\ITTEE 
IMAGINE IT NOW... 
HVN~EOS OF Sil>E­
W"LICS fOR AS fAR 
AS YOU CAN SEE... 
BILL AMEND 
I-IE'l", AT LEAST NOW 
1T'S A LEGolTIMATE. 
$roo :ros. ABOUT 
Ml 
60\NG NUTS••• I 
TYLER.

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


@i) 
BALLOT for your FRIDAY NIGHT 


(MUSIC PARTY) 
ACOUSTICAFE 3 LaFortune -9 p.m. 
Free 

ALL OF THE ABOVE 

7'-..

www.nd.edu/-sub 



(MOVIE PARTY) U-571 WHAT LIES BENEATH 
6 
8:00 and 10:30 101 and 155 De Bartolo $2.00 



PORTS 
page 24 OBSERVER 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Clash of traditions 
has tormented the Irish and the
. Irish must ignore 

rest of the women's game since its
Tar Heels past suc­inception. 
cesses in order to North Carolina's dominance speaks for itself. The Tar Heels
advance in tourney 

have advanced to the NCAA semi­finals each year they have been 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports Writer 
All season long tlrn Notre Dame women's soccer team has known the way to San Jose. 
The nation's top defense. a big gamn goalkeeper and an offensive arsenal led by one of women's college soccer's best players have had the Irish banking on an appearance in college's soccer's final four. However, one more thing was aL"o certain -the Irish knew that to win the title they would have to topple the Tar Heel" of North Carolina. a foe that 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

contested -their streak of 19 consecutive appearances date back to 1982. Those annual trips to the final four havn yielded 16 national titles. including wins over the Irish in 1996 and 1999. Though on paper the undefeated, top-seeded Irish may be a favorite over the Tar Heels -whose fifth seed is their lowest ever ~ Notre Dame head coach Randy Waldrum knows that until some­one slays the giant, the giant still rules. 
"Their history says enough, and it's no different this year. Until someone beats them, they're the team to beat. it doesn't matter where they're ranked," Waldrum said. 
Though they have lost three times this year. the Tar Heels' mystique has not been dulled. Since the regular season ended nearly a month ago, North Carolina has been on a tear. its game-by-game improvement cul­minating with a 3-0 win over Connecticut -the same team that played Notre Dame to a scoreless tie earlier in the year ­in the quarterfinals. · 
When college soccer's titans claqh tonight in San Jose, it will be a battle oftwo teams with few dis­cernable· weaknesses. 
"I think it'll be an exciting game." said North Carolina junior midfielder Jen Kluegel. "They have probably one of the best defenses and I think we have one of the best offenses, so we'll see what happens. It's going to be a 
Tournament time 
The Irish volleyball team begins NCM tournament play today. Notre Dame travels to Ohio State to take on Cincinnati. 
page 22 

tough game, but we're going to do everything we can to win and be playing on Sunday. It'll be a bat-tie." 
The Notre Dame defensive corps will be charged with con­taining a high octane UNC attack that is led by senior Meredith Florance -who has already amassed 25 goals this season. Notre Dame fans will rC'member Florance well, as she scored the game-\vinning goal against Notre Dame in last year's final. 
Additionally, the Irish will have to be watchful of speedy freshman Alyssa Ramsey, who has 14 goals and as manv assists this season. 
If the Tar Heels can penetrate the Irish defense, they'll st.II have to contend with junior Uz Wagner -who has been arguably the best goalkeeper in the nation this 
see SOCCER/page 19 

Irish face Commodores in battle of unbeatens 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associ,m Spom Editor 
The Commodores aren't the same basketball team they were when they edged the Irish 87-85 in overtime last year. 
Vanderbilt lost leading scorers Dan Langhi and James Strong to gradua­tion. The Commodores entered the season unranked with only two starters back from a team that lost in the first round of the NIT. 

.-
But Vanderbilt's 6-0 record indicates the 
Commodores are more than capable of adapting to the team's new make­up. 
Senior center Greg LaPointe has tripled his scoring from a year ago. leading the Commodores with 15 points and nearly eight rebounds per game. Heturning veterans Sam Howard and Anthony Williams, along with transfer Chuck Moore, all are scoring in double dig­its. 
"They have weapons inside and outside," Irish forward Ryan Humphrey said. 
Vanderbilt's strengths are perimeter shooting and rebounding. 
see BASKETBALL/page I 7 


Friday, December 1, 2000 
WOMEN'S 8ASKETBAU 
Belles host Round ball Classic 
By KATIE McVOY A<sistant Spons Editor 
Focus will be the key word for the Belles after coming off of a big win at the Turkey Shoot Classic last weekend as they open their home season. 
The Saint Mary's basketball team will open its home season tonight at Angela Athletic facili­ty as it hosts the SMC Roundball Classic. The Belles enter the tournament with a 3­2 record but don't want to let the overconfidence from last weekend's win get the best of them. 
"We're working on staying focused and setting our goals." sophomore Kristen Matha said. 
"It's our first home game," head coach Suzanne Smith added. "It's easy to stay focused on the road, but we will have to stay focused at home." 
"Right now we're focused on Alverno," Smith said. "We can't start looking past it if we want to win." 
Alverno comes into the tour­nament as a newly formed ath­letic program. The all women's college will prove to be interest­ing competition for the Belles. 
"We really don't know too much about Alverno," Smith said. "They've been hard to get information on." 
If Saint Mary's ends up fac­ing off against Defiance in the second game. it will be an interesting combination of a competition and a reunion. Defiance transfer Junior Kelly Jones wore a Saint Mary's jer­sey the last time she stepped on the Angela court. This year she is will be donning a Defiance uniform. 
"The women are really excit­ed to see her, and 1 think they would really like to play Defiance," Smith said. 
The Belles will be looking to step up their defense and be. sure the get under the boards. They've been focusing on both of these areas all week in prac­tice. 
"Defense and rebounding have always been our focus," Smith said. 
With a win this weekend, the Belles will .tie their victory total from last season. The improved team is heading into this week­end planning to set some peo­ple straight. 
"Everyone expects us to lose," Matha said. "We are playing to win." 

• 
Women's Swimming 
vs. North Carolina vs. Alverno 
Notre Dame Invitational 

College Cup semifinal '··." Roundball Classic VoHeyball
SPORTS ~ 
Today-Saturday 

Today, 5 p.m. Today, 8 p.m. vs. Cincinnati 
NCAA cournamenc

ATA St
'
Men's Swimming 

at Lake Superior State -< • at Columbus, Ohio
at Vanderbilt
Nocre Dame Invitational 

~ Today, 7:05 p.m. Sunday, 7 p.m.
' . Saturday, 8 p.m. 
.... GLANCE • •
Today-Saturday . ~ -~ 



Grading the government 
Finals may be approaching, but student government is just hitting midterms. The Observer looks at our

OCUS 
student leaders, and issues a report card. Friday, December 1, 2000 A regular feature ofThe Observer's News Department. 
On the inside 

Student leaders must cooperate with administration 
was a sort of pet project pro­Edgington. The idea was then andWVFI. 
Inside
By CHRISTINE KRALY 

posed by student body vice presi­sent to Peggy Hnatusko, head of After all the planning and all 
In Focus Writer 

dent Brooke Norton at the begin­the Financial Management the groups involved in the pro­ning of the 2000 school year. Board (FMB), a division of duction, Norton said, many peo­. Connecting with students pg. 2 
Rain poured down on game Norton first brainstormed with Student Activities. ple were left wondering "whose booths and the stuffed animal student body president Brian Groups like student govern­jurisdiction is it under?" prizes afforded to the winners. O'Donoghue and fellow govern­ment who wish to sponsor an Planning events usually . Student opinion poll pg. 2 The hard ground turned to mud, ment members and then took event or program exceeding doesn't fall under student gov­and the echoing sounds were not the idea to advisor Mary $5,000 must send a proposal to ernment jurisdiction because 
. ND President pg. 3

of music and laughter but of Edgington, FMB, whose large events are usually SUB raindrops hitting dormant carni­director of funds come sponsored. val rides. Student "Most ofall it comes from student "Most of all it comes down to 
. SMC student trustee pg. 4

Student government's. Activites. activity fees. time," Edgington said of plan­
down to time. You want
Founder's Day carnival drew "[We wanted Founder's Day ning campus events. "You want 
to make it successful. " 
praise from government mem­to do] a fun was approved to make it successful," she 
. Board of Governance pg. 4 

bers and administration, but few thing for stu­and govern­added, noting that the success of everyday students. Was it just dents ... that ment mem­events like Founder's Day take
Mary Edgington

the rain, or was something amiss would be dif­bers moved to months to prepare. . SMC President pg. 5
director of Student Activities
in the government's planning? ferent," Norton bring in the Finding the money to make the 
Unlike Student Union Board said. She and clowns. cotton candy flow is often a diffi­(SUB), student government is a government "I wouldn't culty, too. The student body . Campus Life Council pg. 6 body that does not function sole­staff held infor-say it's neces­president and vice president ly to sponsor campus events and · m al talks with the Office of sarily easy," Edgington said of know their budget, Edgington 
. Students uninvolved pg. 6

programs. Student government, Student Activities and Office of getting proposals approved. said, and they know the limits it though, has taken steps this year Student Affairs who were "really Problems occur, she said, when puts on their event spending. to organize such events, like the receptive to the idea." It was the group does not have the time Some initiatives, in fact, don't 
. Student Senate pg. 7

campus-wide Founder's Day car­then that the project planning or funding to sponsor an event. work because the money isn't nival in October. really took off. Founder's Day, for example, was available. 
Founder's Day, a day of cam­Norton and other members produced with the help of nearly Government had planned on pus outdoor activities including wrote a proposal outlining for­seven campus clubs, 11 dorms carnival rides and game booths, mat ideas for the event to and 20 groups like Food Services 
see INSIDE/page 8 
Friday, December 1, 2000

page 2 The Observer . IN FOCUS 
ONE PERSON'S VIEW 
Let's open the doors 

For the first time in recent memory, the Notre Dame student body has a leader. 
Brian O'Donoghue sincerely wants to make this University a better place; he wants to take the talent and potential of the students of Notre 
Dame and realize a vision of a grnatcr University. 
But the students he wants to lead don't know that. And that is a problem. 
In preparing this special section, Observer staffers talked to hundreds of stu­dents about their govern­ment. And the most fh•­quent thing people said about it was "I don't kncrw" 
Students don't know what their government is doing. Tlwv don't know that O'l>cmoghue and vice presi­drmt Brooke J\iorton created a fund to help them when 


Tim Logan 
In Focus 
Editor 
t11ev need a plane ticket home in an emer­
gency. They don't know that the Student 
:,enate is trying to expand sexual assault edu­
cation on campu~. 

Thev don't know because thev don't hear 
about.it. And they don't hear about it because 
so much of what·O'Donoghue's administration 
does is done behind closed doors. 

Student government has always had a repu­
tation as something of an insider's club. This 
year that reputation is deserved. While small 
sections of the student bodv are consulted 
when our leaders are deciding what to do, too 
many decisions are made with not enough con­
sultation. 

And once the decision has been made, and 
our student leaders sit down to talk with each 
other and the administration, to hammer pro­
posals into reality, everyday students are even 
more removed. They aren't told what's going 
on: often they're not even told when something 
is accomplished. 

Student government is not the only side to 
blame for this, however. 

If our representatives are insiders, most of 
the represented are indifferent. Students mock 
their senate and they ignore their president. 
And they don't give them a chance. 

Student government held open forums about 
the alcohol policy at the start of the year, and 
attendance was low. Last December, the 
Student Union Board had a forum about cam­
pus concerts, and just a few people showed up. 
If we expect student leaders to act as our 
spokespeople to the administration, we need to 
tell them what to say. 

Granted, student government has an image 
problem. Some past presidents have seemed to 
do little more than talk a lot and throw barbe­
cues, attended mostly by other student govern­
ment members and their friends. 

O'Donoghue wants to do more than that. He 
wants to use his office to make life better for 
Notre Dame students (and not just by supplying 
them with occasional free hamburgers). But, at 
the same time, he and his stafT have a problem 
communicating with those students, to find out 
how they want their life bettered and to tell 
them when things change. 

Effective student government requires steps 
in two directions. It requires the governors to 
take a step towards the students,.and it 
requires the governed to take a step towards 
the leaders. 

Let's take those steps. Let's talk to each 
other. Let's open the doors. 

The views expressed in this column are those o.( the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
IN FOCUS STAFF 
Editor: Tim Logan 
Photography: Tony Floyd 
Graphics: Katie Annis 

Trying to make a connection 
. Government describes attempts to find student concerns 
By FINN PRESSLY 
In Focus Writer 

Perched just feet above the HuddleMart, Notre Dame student government has long been accused of keeping itself too far removed from mainstream campus life. Student body president Brian O'Donoghue claims he has worked this year to break down those barri­ers by maintaining the channels of communication in the dorms and around campus. 
"Ifs safe to say that Brooke, Jay and I aren't hiding up in ihe second floor of Lafortune," he said, refer­ring to student body vice president Brooke Norton and chief of staff Jay Smith. . 
Though all three have extensive background in student government. they feel that O'Donoghue·s cam­paign for president exposed them to the broadest slice of student life. 
"We went door to door and talked to every single student on this cam­pus," ()'Donoghue said. 
He also credits the mix of person­alities in student government for helping to expand the office's scope. 
'There's no three more divergent personalities on this campus," he said of himself, Norton, and Smith. "We come from very different groups ... we don't hang out togeth­er on the weekends." 
Smith echoed a similar sentiment. 
"It's not like the three of us are inseparable and we hang out," he said. 
With their term now past the halfway mark, members of student government rely mainly on the mechanisms of campus government to gather information from students. 
"We go through our division heads, and the heads of our commit­tees. They're most­ly freshmen, 
"It's safe to say that

sophomores, and ments. juniors, with some Brooke. Jay and I aren't "l personally seniors," said stu­read the Viewpoint 
hiding up in the second

dent government page [of The
floor ofLaFortune."

director of public Observer] reli­relations Dave giously, and I Zachn. "I assume know most people'
Brian O'Donoghue

they speak with the in student govern­
student body president

students in their dorms." 
The nexus of interaction between students and government, he said, are the hall council metings within the residence halls. 
"Hall Council is where most of the action should take place," h<' said. Ideas and concerns brought up at Hall Council are then radiated to student senators, hall presidents, and then ·on to the Office of the President. 
Outside the meetings of the Hall Council, members of the student government try to make themselves available to input from their neigh­bors. 
"In my three years, I've always 
tried to ask people in the dorm what's going on. Some people say 'I don't care,' and some people give me an idea, and I go with it," Zachry said. 
()'Donoghue also said that dorm life heightens awareness of campus issues. 
"Brooke and I both live in resi­dence halls, so we gain input through that," he said. 
Campus media also functions as a 
forum for sugges­
tions and com­
ment do, too," 
Zachrv said. 
With all these avenues of input, however, some students concerns are still not addressed. According to Smith, deci­sion making also takes into consid­eration those students who have no; brought forth their issues. 
"In our thought process, we have to think about them. We can't just think about students who are active ... we have to think about everv­bodv," he said. "That's whv we strive to be responsive to as 1nany students as possible, because that's who we try to serve." 
Tim Logan contributed to this report. 

Student Opinion  Describe student govern1nent in one word or phrase: "'effective" "a shan1" ··puppets,. •·a voice for the students" ""they're there" "'strategery" ""dedicated" "I don't know" ""responsible" '•effective"  
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Students Students Do you think student government is effective? ¦ 61% Yes ¦ 75%Yes ~v Jif_(;)XP._.,,"' 11127% No . 21% No,•, o 12% NA/Unsure . 4% NA/Unsure 85 % of ND freshmen said yes but just 63% of ND seniors Do vou think Student government"'represents your concerns? ~ .l ¦ 56% Yes ¦ 57%Yes ¦ 31% No Cl 36% No·:''::';,;;;:.,,~iP" o 12% NA/Unsure . 7% NA/Unsure:::-,i, ~ 83% of SMC sophomores said yes but just 27% of SMC seniors Can you name your student senator/BOG rep.'? ------c;::­¦ 43'Jt Yes '-.....,. ¦ 48% Yes 1114816 No . 4696 No o 8% NA/Unsure . 6% NA/Unsure  
Can you name your student body president'? ¦ 63%Ves ¦ 62'16 Yes 111319(, No . 34%No . 696 NA/Unsure . 496 NA/Unsure Just 26% of SMC freshmen said Results based on random telephone survey ol 333 Noire yes, but 100% of SMC seniors did Dame and Saint Mary's students on Nov. 29 and 30.  ""you can't print that word" ""huh?"  


Friday, December I, 2000 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 3 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 
Working for the future 
0 'Donoghue and Norton focus on a mix ofstudent services and new programs 

will be going to the meeting in Washington, D.C., in February," 
The office played a large role in the report to the Board of Trustees in the fall focusing on alcohol use and sexual assault. 
"We got a great response from the Board," Smith said. "The issues were taken very seriously. They are often not talked about and we felt they needed to be addressed." 
The office contributed to orga­nizing the sale of The Shirt for Basketball and hopes to finish a project called the Greatness Grant, which will provide funds for students who want to do ser­vice or other works of ministry. 
Hoping students would become active in Election 2000, the office planned debate and election watches in Lafortune which were well attended. They also helped register 1000 voters, gave away 1500 absentee ballots and helped plan a Congressional debate in South Bend. 
"The students' voice in elec­tions is absolutely necessary. A lot of folks say students are apa­thetic, but we proved them 
wrong  beyond  a  doubt,"  
O'Donoghue said.  
During  the  campaign,  

O'Donoghue and Norton said they would work for student dis­couts at local businesses and a scholarship service·. O'J)onoghue said they have communicated with local businesses and soon will have a discount card avail­able, primarily for use at restau­rants. The scholarship search is currently available online. 
Although the office wanted to expand the Internet book-swap, they were unable to work with some organizations, so Smith said they hope to run a book­swap at a location where stu­dents can exchange books with each other. 
"There are always signs around the dorms and campus where students are trying to sell books," Smith said. "We are look­ing to provide a centralized loca­tion where those selling and those buying books can come together." 
O'Donoghue and Norton cam­paigned saying they would estab­lish a satellite Grab'n'Go site in DeBartolo and a Reeker's-like cafe in North 
The office is also helping to plan a celebration of Martin Luther King week, including a forum for students, and Blessing Unto Others, a Christian rock concert whose proceeds will go to an orphanage in Chile. All these endeavors, plus several other projects, have kept the office busy, and enthused, even after the midway break in their term. 
"Last year at this time, we had 12 people tops still in this office working hard," Smith said. "This year ~we still have 50 to 60 people who are dedi­cated towards their goals." 
O'Donoghue, Smith and 
Norton said 

Dining Hall. they still
"Last year at this time, 

O'Donoghue want to hear 
we had I 2 people tops in 

said these students' sug­issues are now this office working hard. gestion for being handled new projects
This year we still have

by Student they could
50 to 60 people

Senate. work on until The office who are dedicated April. does have a "Every per­
towards their goals, " 

full list of cur­son who has rent projects in made a sug­the works, Jay Smith gestion to our which includes chief of staff office, we fol­
hosting an off­campus infor­mation session for students mov­ing out of dorms, revamping the diversity program by first edu­cating and training the commis­sioners in the dorms, revising the Safe Ride program and hosting a community mentoring program that will bring eighth graders from the area to Notre Dame for an all-day conference on life and leadership skills. 
low through 
with it," O'Donoghue said. "We deter­mine the feasibility and try to make it work." 
"I have a lot of friends who fit into the 'critical of student government' group," Norton said. "It helps to reassess what we should be doing here. We want to know what would make the most students happy. We still want suggestions." 
By LAURA ROMPF 
In Focus Writer 
Although students may not realize the impact of the current office of the student body presi­dent, several programs it has implemented are designed to benefit students for years to come. 
Student body president Brian O'Donoghue said the Rector's Endowment Fund was a cam­paign promise and a great accomplishment for the office. One-third of the profits from The Shirt sales goes into a separate fund, available for students to use for medical school applica­tions, football tickets, section din­ners or other costly items. 
Although only $906 of the fund's allotted $34,000 had been used as of Nov. 15, O'Donoghue said he expected the slow start. 
"\-Ve've established the 
A-

The Office of the President has fulfilled almost every campaign promise with only a few exceptions. Compared to recent administrations, the office has gone above and beyond expectations, acheiving goals few thought possible. 
The office said they are also proud of the Founder's Day car­nival, even though rainy weather caused a low turnout for the event. Smith said he hopes the next office will build on Founder's Day so it will become 
and annual 
event. 
"It was the

"A lot offolks say
fund for the 
first for that

future," students are apathetic, 
type of opera­
0 'Donoghue 

but we proved them tion," Smith
said. "What's 

important is wrong beyond a doubt." said. "Next 
year, hopefully, 
there is money 
it will continue.
out there to 

Brian O'Donoghue We've paved
help students... 

student body president the way, did
It's early and it's young. These things need time to develop. People need to be aware its out there." 
O'Donoghue, student body vice president Brooke Norton and chief of staff Jay Smith said the fund has not been highly publi­cized because of its personal nature. 
"We want to recognize the dig­nity of the program," Smith said. "It's more about support for the students than publicizing our accomplishment." 

the work and proved it can be done." 
"We got 30 different groups involved instead of normal events that are just planned by one body," Norton said. "The stu­dents who did go said they liked it and were happy with it." 
The third significant accom­plishment the office completed is sending students to the Board of Trustees winter meeting. 
"This has never happened before," Smith said. "Students 
Cheers and Jeers 
Cheers 

O'Donoghue's optimism: Backed by his ambitious personality and significant amount of time and energy, O'Donoghue has accomplished twice as much in half a term than the previous stu­dent body president did the entire year. Only suggestion: sleep. 
Founder's Day: The Gra,itron on campus? Felt like a country fair right here at Notre Dame. However, it pointed out one impor­tant fact: Odie is not God. While he's accomplished a lot, he can't r.ontrol the weather. 
Polite Applause 

Rector's Endowment Fund: Good idea, just not useful. If only $1000 of the $34.000 is used, can't that money be put to a better use'? Maybe add it the $3 billion endowment because it's not big enough yet. 
Student to Board of Trustees: A major goal is accomplished. The students' voice is heard. But if students won't voice their opinion or more accurately, don't seem to care, how can representatives go to board with "student opinion?" 
Jeers 

Changing Safellidc's name: News flash, it's not the name, it's the program. It has been revised, and changed and revised again. Putting more time and effort into the program probably won't change the number of volunteers to drive drunk students around. 
Promisrd Grab'n'Go in OBRT: Got votes. Now the office claims it is the Senate's duty. As a former senator, shouldn't Odie have Iknown not to promise something that was a "senate duty"? 
page 4 The Observer . IN FOCUS Friday, December I, 2000 
=---=-==-============================================================================= 
Kahn bridges gap between students and trustees 
By MOLLY McVOY In Focus W ricer 
The opportunity to directly influence what the Board of Trustees decides is a unique one afforded to the student trustee at Saint Mary's The student trustee is a full voting member of the Board. a situation not found at many other schools. 
''Most of the major decisions on campus happen on the Board. and for us [the student body] to have a voice is a really important situation and a sadly unusual one," said Molly Kahn, this vear's student trustee. 
• Because of the unusual role the student trustee plays in the College's decision-making process. the trustee's primary responsibility is to serve as a voice for the student body on the Board of Trustees. 
"I think th!'\ purpose of' the trustee is really to be a voice of the students to the Board of Trustees," said College president Marilou Eldred. "Their job is to bring issue of the students to the 
Board." 
Part of the _job of the trustee is to have an understanding of the issues that concern the student body. Kahn hopes that a reinsti­the Board about what Saint of appointment is the most suit­"We're looking for a student ly important; the trustee not only tution or "ollice hours" this year Mary's does to help seniors with able method. who has a sense of what the stu­represents the student's inter•

has allowed students to 

plans after graduation." "I like the process as it is dent voice in the Board of ests, but the Board's as well.
approach her with their con­

Aside from bringing student now," Eldred said. "I think an Trustees would be, someone "As a student on the Board of cerns. 
concerns to the Board, the appointed position is appropri­who has given thought to the Trustees, it is my responsibility"I try to be really accessible trustee often acts as the student ate. The faculty and administra­major agenda items for stu· to express student concerns,
and open," Kahn said. 

voice in any questions the Board tion have a broader view of the dents," Timm said. "She also ideas, questions and comments,"Sometimes people come to me has about issues at the College. college. We want to choose the needs to have a plan for how to but it is also my responsibility towith problems and concerns they 
"Molly clearly brought an student who solicit student educate students about the
have. A lot of students came to important perspective when we we think will input so she is Board of Trustees," Kahn said. 

me telling me about Dalloway's "/ try to be really
[the Board] talked about Master best represent not just repre­The part of her job that or security. This allowed me to Plan and the student center din­the student accessible and open. senting stu­involves informing the studetns go to the Board and direct the ing hall project," Eldred said. body." dent govern· about the Board's activities is
Sometimes people come
next step." 

"She was able to be very articu• Linda Timm, ment views one that Kahn is constantly
At the fall meeting, aside from to me with problems and 
late as to why that was so vice president and her views, working on, she explained. Aside the dedication of the two newest important to the community life for Student concerns they have." but the stu­from the e-mail sent to the stu·additions to campus, Dalloway's of the students and college in Affairs, super­dent body's dent body, Kahn is looking forand the Welcome Center, many general." vises the selec• views." ways to communicate the
student issues were on the agen­Molly Kahn
The student trustee is appoint­tion of the stu­In addition Board's plans to the students. 
da. Kahn also plans to bring student trustee
ed by a committee of faculty, dent trustee. to being a stu­"There's a lot of interest in 
more such topics to the next 

administrators and students T i m m dent voice to what the Board does," Kahn
meeting in February. 

When asked whether an elected explained that the Board, the said. "Right now, I'm at the point 
"The Board discussed the 

trustee would more accurately the appointment process looks trustee acts as a representative of trying to hammer out howissues with new facilities, athlet· represent the student body's specifically for a person who will of the Board to the student body. best to inform everyone." 
ics, personal safety and student needs and opinions, Eldred said accurately represent the student Both Eldred and Kahn felt that And of providing a bridgediversity board," Kahn said. "In she feels that the current system population. both responsibilities were equal· between both sides. 

February, I'm looking to talk to 


. Duo works with adminislrators and student leaders 
By AMY GREE NE 
ln Focus Writer 
When Crissie Henner and Michello Nagle ran for student body president last spring, the main focus of their platform was to increase communication between the administration, stu­dent government, and the stu­dent body. 
Since taking ofTice, that's what they've spent most of their ener• gies on that effort. 
lfonncr and Nagle worked 'With the administration to develop the new Dalloway's and also collabo­rated with the Strate~tic Planning Committee in their planning. 
"I am very impressed with the staff for approaching the Board of Governance and extracting the students' input. We now have students sit on all the planning committees," Benner said. 
The Board or Governance also distributed a survey to all stu­dents for their input for the 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Renner/Nagle focus on opening up communication 
B+ 

Board of Governance has successfully executed Pride Week, co-sponsored events, and streamlined communi­cation between leaders and students. Renner and Nagle's "synergy" campaign promise has come to life. 
Midnight Madness, Winter Carnival, and assists the Communication Commissioner. 
The Renner/Nagle platform also attempted to extend hours at the library and the post office. Both Renner and Nagle approached the Library Committee, as well as, the post office, but administrators decided not to keep those offices open longer. 
Renner and Nagle also were unable to increase the amount of Munch Money for students, but complimentary guest passes to the dining hall were made avail-
see RENNER/next page 

strategic planning. 
To increase communication between the five different gov· erning boards, Renner and Nagle encouraged the co-sponsorship of events. According to Renner, the co-sponsored events, such as the Athletic Recognition Pep Rally, are bigger and better attended than they were before. Both women believe that this synergy between the boards is their greatest success. 
Henner and Nagle also focused on communication between stu­dents and the Board of Governance. BOG newsletters have been available in certain areas on campus in the past, but not all students knew the newsletter existed. Renner and Nagle ensured that the newslet• ter was distributed to all students in their personal mailboxes each month. The newsletter allows students to become aware how the Board of Governance votes on certain issues and also what events are being planned on campus. 
The Board grew when Callie Kusco was named as the first l'rogamming Commissioner. She assists in organizing Pride Week, 

Friday, December 1, 2000 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 5 
SAINT MARY'S STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 
Bouncing Back 
Altera controversial election, Crissie Renner and Michelle Nagle had to unite a fractured student body. What they didn 't know was that it would take another controversy to actually do it. 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE In Focus Writer 
The presidential election of 2000 was not Board of Governance's shining moment. 
Crissie Renner and Michelle Nagle won an election that is reminicent of the current presidential camaign. After failing to secure a majority of votes in the initial elec­tion, the race went to a run-off, where the votes cast ended in a first-ever tie. After another revote declared their opponents, in the first place. That meant trusting their Nagle's role on the board, however. While dent government to the student body. 
Emily Koelsch and Rachele Rodarte the leadership abilities, Nagle said. Nagle is a voting member in the body, "It was definitely a chance for studentwinners, a last-minute appeal by Renner "[The election] had a very humanizing Renner said that her role as president government to demonstrate what theythat called attention to improper runoff effect on us," Nagle said. "We know how forces her to keep a more unbiased posi­stood for as a whole," Nagle said. "It was aprocedures gave the Renner/Nagle ticket we came into office. But if we had doubted tion on controversial issues to allow her to powerful educational tool for a lot of differ­the presidency. 
ourselves for a minute, we would have fairly represent all women's viewpoints. ent reasons . . . I think it really showed theBut the newly-elected duo did not have never run for office. We know that we want "While there is nothing in writing that student body that student government does 
time to celebrate their victory last 
to be connected to the women that we rep­says I have to remain neutral, realizing that have an affect on their lives, and that their February, as a greater task laid ahead: the 
resent." I do represent each of these women can voice counts." 
task of uniting a student body, half of Constructing an administration that make me feel that way," Renner said. While both political crises have definedwhom did not support their ticket in office. 
prides itself on its open-But it is not always pos­an atypical term for the ticket, the year has As the student body stormed a Board of sible for a president to taught both Renner and Nagle how todoor policies, the opinion Governance meeting shortly after the deci­
A-
remain neutral, as Renner mature as leaders. And being leadersof the student body hassion was announced, a tearfuJ Renner and learned when the Junior means learning that no matter how badly been an element that isNagle admitted they had reluctance to Class Board designed the they want to receive consensus amongcentral to every decision
enter their offices. 
infamous "Girl of Choice" their constituents, they know that theythat Board of"I never thought we would assume office T-shirt and outcry from can't be everything to everybody. 
Governance has madeafter the complaint was filed," Nagle said 
The Renner/Nagle admin­
the student body over the "You learn so much about what Saintthis year. Stressing thethat evening in an interview with The 
istration has proven itself 
shirt's inappropriate Mary's is as an institution, as a community,need for communicationObserver. "It makes me doubt how much I as strong leaders in trying theme resulted. As the and as a family," Nagle said. "But there is a
and education among
wanted this position when I hear how times, including the 2000 student body divided into constant pressure to be something toboard members beforeadamantly students are opposed to what election debacle, the Junior 
pro-shirt and anti-shirt everybody."
decisions can be made,the Elections Commission and Election 
Class T-Shirt and the 
camps, Renner and "I have personally learned that if I'm ..,...
the interests of the stu­Appeals Board decided." 
Keenan Revue decison. The Nagle's role began to seeking to please, then I am setting myself dent body are somethingThe ticket did assume office last spring, year of trials has produced merge, Renner said. up for failure," Renner said. ''I've learnedthat is central to everyand after a year that has produced both 
two student leaders who 
Announcing the decision not to walk out my door everyrnorning feel­decision the boardsuccesses and challenges for the Board of 
exemplify what student
makes, Renner said. 
to purchase the shirts ing that I have to please everybody. TheGovernance, the ticket that once sat in a leaders should be. 
from the board and pre­student body will stand behind me no mat­
"My mother always
BOG meeting apprehensive to lead the stu­vent their sale, it was the ter how I was elected."
told me that you can't
dent body has emerged as a brilliant 
listen with your mouth first time the student gov­As their term comes to a close with theadministration. But so much of that has to open," Renner said. "I have learned to lis­ernment had ever sanctioned a class board. onset of the campaign season again indo with the circumstances under which ten. I have learned that the student body "I don't know if the T-shirt decision January, the lessons and leadershipthey were elected, both women will admit. 
speaks \;\'hen they knock on your door -counts as one of our successes," Renner learned could be enough to carry one half"We heard when the election happened, and when they're not knocking on your said. "But it was a chance for BOG to shine. of the Renner/Nagle ticket into the presi­that students will move on," Renner said. 
door. I wake up each morning knowing It truly opened the door of student govern­dency next year. 
"We were told that students' eyes would be that I am student body president, and that I ment to the community -whether stu­But it's too soon to make those decisions, opened to us as leaders. and if we led, the 
represent 1500 women who I care deeply dents were in support or not in support [of Nagle said. 
student bodv would follow." 
about." the shirt], we heard so much feedback." "[Student body president] is a possibility."
But findir;g the strength to lead had to Renner's commitment to fairly represent­After the fracture in the student body she admitted. "But I really try to take each come from inside, and after a tumultuous ing each student at Saint Mary's draws a caused as a result of the 2000 election, the day as it comes, and for now, that meanselection, the ticket was forced to find the line between her role and vke president decision presented a Wlited picture of stu-living each day as vice president." 
motivations that led them to run for office 

"At times we had to unbind our­ board had different opinions  "It was an outlet to show what  were not well lit or appeared  
Renner  selves from the platform (to meet the needs of the student body.]"  about the shirts, but ultimately, they were all purchased and  we can really do," Nagle said. Renner and Nagle have also  unsafe. Next semester, Renner and  
The Renner/Nagle term has  destroved.  progressed in security on cam- Nagle will also be addressing the  
continued from previous page  been anything but void of contro­ "The junior  p  u  s  issues of abroad student voting,  
versy, however. They wrestled  T-shirt was an  Throughout  the Study Days proposal and the  
able.  with the junior class T-shirt,  opportunity for  "We tried to make our  the year, BOG  Keenan Revue debate.  
Both women acknowlfldge that their pli.1tform goals were mini­mal.  which stirred up controversy with its suggestion of a rivalry between Notre Dame and Saint  BOG to shine," Nagle said. "It was a time  best efforts to meet the students' needs."  spoke with Saint Mary's Security about  The Renner/Nagle platform may have been minimal, but both women have performed well  
"Our platform was a student  Mary's women.  when the stu­ students' con­ under pressure and appear pas­ 
platform," Nagle said. "We tried  The event made Renner look at  dent body got  Michelle Nagle  cerns  and  sionate about their roles.  
to make our best effort to meet the students' needs."  her job a little differently. "It was a time when I realized  educated about their  student body vice president  campus safety. BOG also orga­ "This is my life," Renner said. "It is a twenty-four hour job. I am  
They agreed that they keep the  that I could not please everyone,"  student  gov­ nized  a  a figure for this campus and yes;  
platform small because they  she said.  ernment."  "Security Walk" in which BOG  it's overwhelming at times. I  
could not foresee the future con­ The shirt was the first in Saint  Despite the controversy, both  members, security officials and  would do it again in a second for  
cerns of the student body.  Mary's history to be sanctioned  women believe that the shirt  other students surveyed the cam­ our campus and for my personal  
"We couldn't forsec what the  by the Board of Governance. The  ordeal made them better leaders.  pus and addressed areas that  character."  
year would hold," Renner said.  

page 6 The Observer . IN FOCUS Friday, December 1, 2000 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Group tries to change with new task force structure 

By HELENA PAYNE In Focus Writer 
Under the direction of a reform-minded chair, the CLC has abolished committees and set up a new task force structure to increase productivity. 
'This year my personal goals for the CLC were to see the for­mation of a new structure which would raise the quality of work being done by that body, while at the same time quelling con­cerns by those within the mem­bership and outside about the quality of work being done by that body," said student body president Brian O'Donoghue. 
The CLC, which usually meets every other week, is a resolu­tion-drafting body of 23 stu­dent.<;, rectors, 

much more directed toward sweeping reforms. This is what I feel the duty of the CLC should be." 
However, O'Donoghue, along with student body vice president Brooke Norton and other CLC members, agreed to change the committee structure because of the attendance problems and lack of interest in some commit­tees. These difficulties hindered output from the group. 
"I know in the past they had problems with committee meet­ing attendance and having peo­ple being excited about it," said Norton. "CLC has changed for the better this year and has become a more productive body." 
The committees have been replaced by task forces, which O'Donoghue 
and faculty and Norton
"CLC has changed for the 
said have more administrator better·this year and explicit, nar­who discuss row, goals. 
and an 

become a more 
One. for exam­campus from 

productive body. " ple is the Task
alcohol to academics. 
Force for 

Eighteen of Brooke Norton Consistent the 23 mem­
Residence Hall

student body vice president 
Policies, ing status, the recently other five fill advisory capacities. changed from In years past, the CLC has the task force for the disparity 
written many resolutions to the between male and female resi­Office of Student Affairs to dence halls. Last year, this topic address concerns about drivers was covered under a Gender parking on outdoor basketball Relations Committee with less courts or the installation of an tightly-defined purposes. The ATM machine at North Dining new task force system, however, llall. among other issues. These encourages more in-depth 
issues were addressed by com­research to get to the root of mittees that met in some cases campus issues. infrequently to create surveys or "The task force system as a write resolutions for the entire general whole has helped the 
CLC's approval. CLC in many ways. Many of the This year, though, the group Task Forces are meeting more has directed itself towards more often than their committees ever sweeping reforms. did. I have heard of certain Task "Whereas past bodies would forces meeting up to three times 
pass resolutions that made small in a given week. That never used incremental changes," to happen," said O'Donoghue. O'Donoghue said, "This body is "Furthermore, inside those bers have vot­
8­

The new task force structure encourages focus, but "task force" is just a more proactive syn­onym for committee. During the fall semester. the CLC has passed few resolutions. but members show enthusiasm. Perhaps, once all the task forces adjust to the new structure, they'll speed up production in the spring. 
groups good hard research is being done to make sure that they are certain about their facts." 
The Task Force for Consistent Residence Hall Policies, along with the Student Senate, was responsible for surveying dorms regarding their 24-hour space policies. Thus far, this CLC has not passed as many resolutions as last year's, but O'Donoghue claimed they have been just as productive and the task forces have allowed more time for thorough analysis of campus issues. 
"Currently. the Task Forces are working on some of the most controversial issues ever seen by the CLC at one time," O'Donoghue said. "We simply cannot afford to make a mis­take." 
Norton said the CLC plans to examine issues such as the Honor Code and students moving off campus. She said that the task force system has boosted the CLC's output, but she would like to see some improvement. 
"I just hope that we can kind of speed up the process a little body," said Norton. 
Even with fewer CLC resolu­tions this semester, O'Donoght1e said the new body functions well and is committed to serving the University. 
"Before, it seemed like folks were working just to have some­thing done for the next meeting. As a result the product some­times lacked the full research it could have had. The result of such past half-hearted efforts was a body which was losing respectability and frustration membership," said O'Donoghue. "Sure there are disagreements on the floor, but that, to me, just shows a passion on the part of the membership to see the best possible product. This body cares about how it repre­sents itself to the University Community, a concern which used to not be given such high priority. The result is better work is being done for the Notre Dame community." 
The uninvolved say they weren't hooked early enough 
...... 
By HELENA PAYNE 
In Focus Writer 
While student body president Brian O'Donoghue and vice president Brooke Norton urged students to "Believe" in student government, some students don't have time to believe and others have found interests elsewhere. 
Sophomore Kevin Romero was once highly active in stu­dent government during his high school years in Las Cruces, New Mexico. Romero was elect­ed as a class president for three consecutive years and became the student body president his senior year. Like Notre Dame, the student government in Romero's high school spon­sored service projects and other student events and activities. The one difference is that in Romero's school, student gov­ernment was also a class that offered elective credit. . 
As a freshman at Notre Dame. however, Romero opted not to get involved with student government because he didn't receive information about it until he felt it was too late. 
"When the freshmen elections come up I don't think it's very clear that in order to run for a class office, you have to be elected in your hall," Romero said. 

Freshmen elections, which occur at the beginning of the school year, determine the freshmen council, which con­sists of freshmen representa­tives from each residence hall. 
"Generally the people who get involved early ... those are peo­ple who will probably be involved actively their entire career here," said Romero. 
He said that this deterred him from getting involved in student government. 
"My impression of student government ... I feel like not a lot of people have access to it," said Romero. "The system is not really clear to those who aren't directly involved in it." 
Since freshmen year. Romero has joined three vocal groups at the University including the Glee Club, the Undertones, and Voices of Faith Gospel Choir. He is also a student manager for Reeker's. 
"I just pursued things that interested me and things that I felt I had enough time to involve myself in," Romero said. 
Now, nomero said he doesn't have a clear definition of the purpose of student government. 
"To be honest, I can't tell you exactly what student govern­ment does," said Romero. 
When he does hear about events, he usually unable to attend because of conflicting activities. 
"Generally it's not because I don't want to [attend student government-sponsored events] but it's because I already have something to do," Romero said. 
Like Romero, junior Rachel Rothrauff also had an initial interest as a freshmen in stu­dent government, but unlike Romero, sho heard about frcsh­men representative elections soon enough to participate in her dorm's elections. Although she won and spent her first year active in student govern­ment, she has since decided to pursue other activities as well. 
Currently, she teaches a step aerobics class for HecSports and she works at the phone center. 
"With time constraints, you can only do so many things here and the stuff I'm doing now is stuff I enjoy more," said Hothrauff. 
Rothrauff' said that while in student government as a Notre Dame freshman she felt that she had done more in high school on student government. 
"I did a lot of stuff in high school, way more than do I 
see OPINION/page 8 Friday, December 1, 2000 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 7 

STUDENT SENATE 
Committees see successes, hope for future 
By LAURA ROMPF In Focus Writer 
At the halfway mark of their 

term, student senators have com­
pleted a handful of projects and 
no'iv have their hands full with 
new ones. 
"From the implementation of 

sexual assault programs and the 
posting of a 24-hour space policy 
in all residence halls. to honor 
code reform and food service 
changes, we hani rnally taken 
positive steps to making Notre 
lJame a better placr, for the stu­
dents." said Z,thm senator Rvan 
Becker. "And I promise. there ·is a 
lot more to come. We're not done 
vet.'· 
· v\'hilr some senate committees 
have been more' active than oth­
ers. each of the seven outlined 
ambitions in August and havP 
been working to accomplish these 
goals throughout tnP year. 
Committee on Gender Issues 
In tlH• past. the senate's 

Committee on Gender Issues 
rarely brought forth resolutions, 
but this year it has been very 
active. 
"Gender Issues used to be an 

idea and issues-oriented commit­
tee. but now we're focused on 
projects," said co-chair, Maggie 
Clarke. Lvons senator. 
In August. the committee. said 

its main goals were to address 
24-hour space issues and create a 
packet for first-year s-tudents to 
introduce them to campus. 
Clarke and fellow co-chair Luciana Reali, Lewis senator, said the 24-hour space resolution. which guarantees social space around-the-clock in all residence ·halls, and the packet, which will include various resources avaH­able to students, were large 
accomplishments. 
"We think if it is all the infor­

mation is together ip one large 
book for the freshman. they will 
go to it all the time. lt Vvill sit on 
their shelves as a reference ­
almost like the 'dog book,'" 
Clarke said. 
After accomplishing both of 

these, the committee has moved on to several other projects, including working with Student Affairs to create Sexual Assault Programs in the dorms, creating Freshman Orientation focus groups to study the weekend. researching a new student center and parietals and meeting with Campus Ministry, and research­ing the gay and lesbian communi­ty on campus. 
"We set seven goals at the beginning of the year and we've met them all, "Reali said. "Now we're deciding what to work on next." 
Committee on Residence Life 
In August, thP Committi>e on Residence lJfe set five main goals: to examine dining hall issues, provide more 24-hour space. deal with maintenance and security issues. and improve La.Fortune Student Crnter. 
Two of those projects have been completed and the other three have been researched ancl are on the way to wmpletion, said Zahm Hall senator and co-chair Ryan Becker. 
The committee co-sponsored a resolution to ensure 24-hour space for all students and passed resolutions to have discounted­meal packages. "The 24-hour space resolution was by far the most ground-breaking thing sen­ate has done all year," said com-· mittee co-chair Kevin Berchou, Sorin senator. 
Berchou said the committee met Vvith food services to work on LaFortune improvements. "We recommended that there be bet­ter lighting in the basement," Berchou said. "We also suggested putting a snack bar down there." 
Finallv the committee met with maintenance to inquire about putting clocks in O'Shaughnessy Hall, but were informed clocks were stolen frequently in the past, and it is not practical to replace them. 
Becker said the committee Vvill turn its efforts towards dorm improvement and maintenance issues for the second half of the term. The committee also hopes 
Report Card 
Gender Issues: A 
Residence Life: 
A 
Oversight: 
A-
Diversity: 
B+ 
Academic Affairs: 
B+ 
University Affairs: 
B 

Ethics: C-
Total Grade: 
B+ 

In August, thf' senate seemed too ambitious. but has ful­filled several prom1ses. Some committees have been very active, but others have done little, hurting the body's produc­tivitv. Overall, the Senate handled large issmis and did things tha.t' will benefit the student bod;,1. 
to lower the meal plan rate for students staying over fall and spring break. 
Committee on Oversight 
Because the Committee on Oversight's main duty is to ensure all Student Union organizations adhere to their Constitutional duties. the only objective the com­mittee set in August was to make constitutional updates. 
The committee accomplished this goal by passing several "housekeeping" amendments. 
"The constitution is not a per­fect document and it is our _job to make it as user friendly as possi­ble and the best document for all students to usf'." said co-chair, Audra Higgins. Pasquerilla West senator. 
The committee recently com­pleted a study of election reform. After several violations occurred in last vear's student bod\' elec­tions, the committee looked to revamp the entire process. 
"Election reform is a big deal and has been our prominent issue," said committee cu-chair Jessie Flores, Carroll senator. "\'Ve definitely want to avoid what happened last year." 
Committee on Diversity Sorin senator Kevin Berchou speaks at a recent Student 
In August, the Committee on 
Senate meeting. The senate has seen mixed results this year,
Diversity said its three main goals 
but some committees have been effective. 
were to investigate the International Student Orientation, Dittmar resigned for personal to distribute a survey to deter­reasons.
Committee on Academic Affairs 
mine the feelings about diversity "We were definitely set back at
The Committee on Academic 
on campus, and research why a the beginning," said current co­
Affairs sponsored one of the most 
students' ethnic background is chair Bethany Barker, Welsh
significant resolutions of the sen­
questioned on Teacher Course Family hall senator. "But we are
ate's year which stated sev.eral 
Evaluations (TCE's). still trying to put forth effort" 
reasons whv students need four 
At the halfway mark, one of In August, the committee said
study days next Fall, instead of 
those goals has been accom­its main goals were to investigate
the proposed three. 
plished while the other two are the surplus of the Generations
"Our biggest project has been 
still in the works. Campaign, establish centralized
the study days resolution," said 
"Our main goal this semester tutoring, determine the quality of 
McGlinn senator and co-chair 
was planning long-distance telephone service
Melissa Rauch.

the Celebrating and investigate Health Services. 
"It wasn't part

Diversity work­'7 promise you there is a Besides researching
of our original

shop for ihe Broadwing, the committee
lot more to come. We 're plan because 
senate," said focused on resolutions from last
we weren't

Nikki McCord. not done yet." year rather than those new pro­
made aware of

co-chair and -jects.
it until a few

Pasquerilla The committee worked with
Ryan Becker weeks into the 
East senator. Sophomore Class Council to cre­
Zahm senator year, but it has 
"Now that ate a sophomore signature event.
taken over as 

we've focused kept contact with Rec Soort.s to
the primary

internally, sec-ensure revamping of The RocKI1e
objective."

ond semester we can go out to the Memorial and worked with stu-
Because the committee focused
entire student body. You have to . dent government to provide funds 
on this resolution, their projects
have yourself in the right mindset for Transfer Orientation. 
outlined in August of establishing 
before you can go out and change The committee also combined
on-line DARTing, having out-of­
other people's attitudes." with the committee on Academic
class assignments included in the 
McCord and fellow chair, Dillion Affairs to form and Honor Code
DART book and creating faculty 
senator Brendan Dowdall, said committee that has been meeting
mentoring are not completed. 
the committee investigated the with faculty members and
Rauch said DART is currentlv in 
International Student Orientation researched other school's honor
the hands of Office of Information 
and determined it has been suc­codes.
Technology (OIT) and research is 
cessful. "Students should know what to
being conducted about guidance
McCord and Dowdall said they expect when they go into an
for upperclassmen. 
are working on removing the eth­Honor Code Hearing," said
Rauch said the committee is 
nic background question on Brogan. "We want to compile a
working on a new project of con­
TCE's. Because only one or two log of past cases and educate stu­
solidating all scholarship and 
minority students are often in a dents about all the policies.
grant information into one office
class, identifying race on the Overall, we want consistency."
where students could find infor­
TCE's essentially identifies who mation. 
filled out the form, McCord said. 
"We did a little research and Committee on EthicsDowdall said the committee is found out that the Academic Although the Committee onworking with the Office of the Council had made suggestions to Ethics main purpose is to ensurePresident to distribute the survey do this years ago, but no one ever Student Union members act ethi­about diversity and compile evi­picked up the ball," Rauch said. "I cally in accordance to the consw­dence about campus attitudes. 
would expect some legislation in tution, they said in August they "When you tell the administra­the next couple weeks regarding hoped to reform the electiontion there are problems and you implementing this new office." process. But the Oversightneed things changed. they ask for Committee took initiative andspecific examples," Dowdall said. 
investigated election reform and

Committee on University Affairs 
.'vlcCord said the committee brought forth an amended consti­
When the new senators took
now hopPs to add a theology elec­tution Wednesday in senatP.
office last April. the University
tive where students could travel Last year's committee on ethics
Affairs Committee eh1ctcd Phil
to local churches of different 
researched old test files an<l how

Dittmar and Chris Clement a.,; co­
faiths. "We feel students should they could give students unfair
chairs. Around a month later,
be allowed to know what's avail­advantages. but thts year·s com­
Clement resigned because he was
able w them. Our goal is to open mittee has not followed up on this
accepted into the London pro­
people's minds to different expe­issue, nor has it brought any new
gram, and then in September,
riences," McCord said. 
business to senate. 


page 8 The Observer . IN FOCUS Friday, December l, 2000 
Society of Women dent senators to facilitate student Student government, however, 
interests" and meeting with stu­thought it was a great thing." 
Engineers, Asian American 
Opinion
Inside 

Association and the Texas Like Edgington, Kirk pushes the from students. 
needs. has not yet gathered responses 
continued from page 6 Club. Bryant also volun­
continued from page 1 

teers. sponsoring a Christian rock con­it comes to planning projects and regarding the event with adminis­
group in the right direction when There was a follow-up meeting 
here," said Rothrauff. Because of these other cert in the spring. but the scale proposing new government initia­tration and groups involved in the 
However, Rothrauff said time commitments, Bryant, student government was like Homero and Rothrauff,

and cost of the even have proven tives. When there are cotton planning. There was no meeting. too much for the group to handle. candy Founder's Day issues, Kirk though, to learn student reaction. 
making an effort to branch cannot fit the events into University funds are often not sends government to Food Smith says the government is also 
out to many students and her schedule. great enough for government to Services for help. Programs like looking to form student focus 
provide events. "Another reason I don't afford bigger venues to visit cam­the new Rector's Endowment groups beginning in January. 
"I think they're making a attend student government pus, said Jay Smith, student gov­Fund go through many steps of Norton and O'Donoghue also have 
better effort to ·do more events is sometimes they ernment chief of staff. The group administrative approval, met with the Office of Student 
and to find out what stu­are just at bad times," said has since reformed its concert O'Donoghue said, including those Affairs and students will now for 
dents think about things Bryant. but r still think it's dilTicult However, Bryant also

planning and downsized the pro­by the Offire of Student Affairs. the first time be allowed in the gram to ensure its production. According to Smith, Father Board of Trustees winter meeting 
with all the red tape in the said student government Student government plays a Mark Poorman, vice president for in Washington. 
University," said Rothrauff. could work on making it game of political hokey-pokey, Student Affairs, has been a big Student Senate serves as the 
"There could always be more known to the stu­with one hand in students' needs advocate for more 24-hour space most visible mediator between 
more but I think they ·make dents what it actually does. and the other in administrative on campus. Student government student concerns and the main 
a really good effort." "I can't think o{ many concerns. When students want has engaged in talks with him to branch of government. According 
She added that one student government events something, it's often government extend DeBartolo Hall hours until to Smith. there is not a great deal 
advantage to being eve though I know there who goes straight to the top to 4 a.m. during finals week, with of interaction between the Senate 
involved with student gov­are a lot ... they need to "shake it all about." hopes of a future 24-hour exten­and the Office of the President. 
ernment was that she distinguish themselves The group has always had an sion. While there is a weekly report 
knew what was going on, more." advisor, according to Edgington, With all this contact with admin­from the office at every meeting, 
but at the same time, she Bryant did attend an who has overseen the group since istration, it makes one wonder Smith says that the branches run 
said that perpetuated an event that involved movies early July. The director of Student when government has the time to independent of each other. 
"inside group." and dinner and said that Activities has usually been that talk with students. It seems their "It seems that Senate has had 
"There definitely is the was a more effective way advisor. Edgington tries to meet greatest input comes from familiar its own agenda," he said, and the 
select group ... especially to catch her interest. with O'Donaghue and Norton in sources: friends. same is true for the Office of the 
when you go beyond fresh­"I don't enjoy or don't men year, you're kind of in care for some of what they

person at least once a month. but Smith says that he likes to "pick President. Because of this, he keeps in casual contact with them friends' brains" on topics like du added, there can be a great deal 
it until you graduate," said do, so I don't show up. I Rothrauff, who decided to like food and movies, so I

on a regular basis through e-mails Lac revisions and a possible week­of overlap between the two· and phone calls. She also sees ly student e-mail of campus groups. Some topics do reach 
leave student government showed up for that ... and I Norton ovory week when she events. Student government mem­both avenues, including the 
after her first year. was free that night," said oversees Student Senate meetings. bers come from different back­University alcohol policy, an issue 
Sophomore Christine Bryant. Whether it's getting a thumbs­grounds, he added, noting that the government hopes the Board 
Bryant never had an inter­On the Notre Danw cam­est in getting involved in pus there are a variety of

up on a new diversity panel or an this helps when getting a greater of Trustees will address at their OK on Gravitron in front of Rolfs, consensus of student input. winter meeting. The Senate 
student government, but student organizations to the group heads to Edgington and What about the students who offered help and support after the 
said student government join, including student gov­follow administration for advice. don't know Smith, or O'Donoghue Board approved student involve­
makes a good effort to ernment. Students like "[I work with government] hope­or even their hall senator? How ment in the spring semester 
appeal to students who do Romero and Bryant by want to become involved. choice or lack of informa­

fully hP-lping get things passed," ar.e their concerns heard? This is meeting. said ilill Kirk, vice president of something Smith says the group is Edgington, though, disagrees. 
"I think [student gover­tion about student govern­Student Affairs. Kirk, whose most working to improve. There is "a lot of communication 
ment does] a good job ment decided to commit visible student government role is According to Smith, about 500 between the two bodies," she 
since there are so many their time to other organi­as member of the Campus Life -1,000 people attended the said. If there are disagreements 
students that you never zations. Council, acl'l as a sort of guide in Founder's Day event throughout between the Senate and the Office 
can please all of them," However, for these three, getting things done. the course of the day. of the President, they aren't aired 
said Bryant. at least, time constraints On occasion Kirk serves as head The event was a failure because at Senate meetings, Edgington 
Bryant has joined clubs form the main roadblock to that target a more specific student government

of a smaller scale Congress, aiding of overall low attendance, Smith added, but behind closed student government with "constituent said, but "everyone who went government doors. 
interest group such as the involvement. 

Point. Click. Get Tickets. 
It really is that easy. Free, too. 
Observer Online Classifieds 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 






