
Court denies relatives' appeal 
Lost innocence? 

Wednesday
A federal court judge Tuesday refused to block 
Columnist questions the local authorities' 
the U.S. government from sending 
actions in the Jan. 27 arrest offour 
Elian back to Cuba. 
Notre Dame students at Denny's. 

MARCH 22, 
WorldNalion . page 5 
viewpoint . page 12 

2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXlll N0.105 
NEWS ANALYSIS 



Profs: Papal visit a call for religious peace 
By ERIN PIROUTEK Associate News Editor 

For years, Pope John Paul II has prayed for the opportunity to walk in lhe footsteps of Jesus. Fragile health and political obstacles failed to keep the pope from realizing his dream of visiting tlw Holy Land and the most sacred sites of Christianity. flp arrived in Jordan \1onday and will remain in the Middle East until Sunday. 
"'Jr,rusalcm is thr holiest of cities for Chrislians because it is where Jesus suf­for!'d his passion and death and where he rose from the dead. In other words. it is the place whern the Hedemption or.currnd." said Father Richard McBrien, a theology professor at Notre Dame. 
The week-long pilgrimage includes visits to the Church of the Sepulchre ­the supposed site of Jesus' crucifixion and resurrection -as well as the site of Jesus' birth in Bethlehem and his boy­hood home of Nazareth. The pope is also expected to say Mass at site of the Sermon on the Mount, with 100,000 worshipers anticipated. 
The long-awaited visit was timed to coincide with the jubilee year. 
"It is a Holy Year -and not just any Holy Year. It is the beginning of a new century and a new millennium." McBrien said. 
Jerusalem has a unique role in three religions: Christianity, Judaism and Islam. 
"John Paul's vision is of a Jerusalem that serves as the meeting place of heaven and earth, as a place where all humanity can come together." said Rabbi Michael Signer, theology profes­sor at Notre Dame. 
This is the first time a pope has visited Israel since 1964, when Pope Paul VI made a pilgrimage. This visit, however, came at a time when the Vatican had no diplomatic relations with Israel. Paul Vi's focus was to unify Christians in the Eastern and Western churches, not to improve relations with other religions. 
This year. the pontiff will also visit holy Jewish sites -the Western Wall ­
see POPE/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Roseland supports officers 
. Town attorney says police officers will not be disciplined in Denny's case 
By TIM LOGAN News Writer 
Asserting that race was not a fac­tor in the arrest of four black Notre Dame students at Denny's Diner on Sunday, Feb. 27, Roseland town attorney Peter Agostino firmly sup­ported the two officers who made the arrests at the Roseland Town Council meeting Monday. 
He said he had been investigating the incident for the past two weeks and recommended that no discipli­nary action be taken against the officers, Joseph Andrews and Eugene Woofter. who were off-duty and working security at the restau­rant. He said that his investigation was not complete, but that he had interviewed seven eyewitnesses who said the officers acted properly. 
"Of the thirteen witnesses who have come forward all 13 have been supportive of the police officers," Agostino said. "None of the witness­es have indicated that any of the officers acted in any unprofessional manner or used any racist remarks or otherwise did anything that could in any way be misconstrued as racist." 
The four arrested students did not attend the meeting, although they had been invited. Agostino also said he was still attempting to contact five students who were at the diner but not arrested. He was also trying to reach Lt. Robert Herron, a police officer at South Bend Regional Airport who was eating at Denny's at the time and assisted in the arrest. 
St. Joseph County Prosecuting 
see DENNY'S/page 6 

Malloy: ND will not join Workers' Rights Consortium yet 
By KATE STEER Associate News Editor 
/\t a crucial time in the anti­swea tshop movement, University leaders and activists met Tuesday before a group of interested people to discuss lhe role that Notre Dame has taken and will conlimw to take in the near future. 
University president Father Edward Malloy opened the dis­cussion by expressing his satis­faction with the involvement of University members. 
"I am pleased, when I look at 

all the great issues of our time that we have people here who are paying attention to econom­ic justice," 

he said. 
Ma 11 o y recently established t h e University's task force on anti­sweatshop 
Malloy initiatives, and praised their work as well. Tfhe task forcet has been working very hard, periodically 
issuing reports, and I think I thus has been able to adapt the can say with some degree of organization to the University 
pride that we have played a very important leadership role in the conver­sation about this issue," he said. 
More than a year ago, the Notre Dame was invited to be a part of the foundation of the Fair 
Labor Association (FLA), and and general 
"! am pleased, when I look at all the great issues ofour time that we have people here who are paying attention to economic justice.,, 
Father Edward Malloy University president 

standards to some extent. 
"We felt that our par­ticipation [in the FLA] would mean that much greater moni­toring [of sweatshops] would go on," said Carol Kacsebier, vice president 
counsel of the University. Kacsebier also serves as the co-chair of the university advisory committee of the FLA. 
Malloy also supported the University's actions in partic­ipating in the FLA and contin­ued efforts as a part of the organization. 
"One of the most significant ways we have been involved up to now is our participation and leadership role in the FLA," Kaesebier said. 

The main point of strife. between University administra­
see WRC/page 6 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, March 22, 2000 


INSIDE COLUMN 



The Friend 

Basket 

There was once something that my best friend back in California and I had in com­mon. We both knew a good number of girls, hut we never got anywhere with them. Now this isn't necessarily a bad thing, but it can be a little frustrating at 
C.R. "Teo"

times when you know some of the hottest girls Teodoro 
around (and beliiwe me. I 
know some very attractive 
Illustrations

ladies) and all you end up 
Editor

in is the friend basket. 
The friend basket is actuallv a term that was given to my friend when he was asking out this one girl at his work. Now. this was a very attractive lady as well; she had four separate oITers to star on a Spanish soap opera (and the women from I.his kind of show were known to be incredibly sexy). Now when my friend. nanny by name, tried to ask her out, she immediately said to stop and told him straight off that there was no chance for him. Why? l3ecanse he was in the friend basket. 
Women usually have some rough way of classifying men they know and meet: the "date" basket, and "hate" basket, and the "friend" basket. In my friend's case. this lady had most guys in her date or hate basket, but no one reallv in her friend basket. She usual­ly had men moving from her date baskPt to her hate basket until Danny showed up. 
Nm.v if you know my friend Danny, you know he is a very likeable guy. He was so likeable that he ended up in the friend basket with this girl. She admits that she doesn't know how he got in there, and that no one ever gets into her friend basket, but by some flux in reality has Danny found himself in the friend basket and that was it. Well. she prob­ably wasn't his type anyway. 
As for me, I usually... eh. I mean always find myself in the friend basket. As I said before. this isn't necessarily a bad thing. It is a curse and a blessing for us both. You get advice and opinions for women that you can't get from guys. You get to hear some stories that usually circulates only among the female (and unfortunately some of these stories are things I really did not need to know, thank you very much!). You also get more chances to explore and embrace your feminine side that you really don't get when you are hang­ing out with the guys. 
Still, I wonder how long I'm going to be in the friend basket. I wouldn't mind going into the date basket every now and then, even if I do turn up in the hate basket afterwards. Of course. maybe it's that mentality that pre­vents me from getting into the date basket in the first place. Maybe women see me as non­threatening. t\1aybe they think of me as inca­pable of being a sex object (scary thought as that may be). Maybe they think I'm gay, which I'm not (at least, I don't think). Hell, I might as well be gay since my love life has been non-existent. 
Just recently, I got word from my friend Danny about the happenings back home. Other than the usual, I heard that he finally met a girl. We had an ongoing joke about the both of us being in the friend basket. But it seems that I will be the only one to carry on this joke a little further. Oh well, it was get­ting to be a bit too crowded in the friend bas­ket anyway. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Josh Bourgeois Amanda Greco Kate Nagengast Jackie Browder 
Erm Piroutek Graphics 
Sports Jose Cuellar Kathleen O'Brien 
Production Viewpoint Rachel Protzman Dustin Ferrell Lab Tech Liz Lang 

The Observer /USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Mondav rhrough Frida" r-xa-pr during ~xam and vac::uion period!I. The Observer i! a m~rnber ofche Associ:ircd r'resJ.. Al1 reproducrion rights are resc-rvcd. 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA  
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Theater: "Fiddler On the  . Crafts & Hobbies:  . Festival: Wakarusa  . Dance: Amarillo Star  
Roof." Umble Center,  Rummage and bake sale,  Maple Syrup Festival,  country and line dancing,  
Goshen College, 7:30 p.m.  East UnitAd Methodist  9 a.m.  Crumstown Conservation  
. Film: Asian-American  Church, 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.  . Lecture: "Sexual  Club, 7:30 p.m. to 11 p.m.  
Spring Film Festival  . Art: Works of Margaret  Harassment in Schools."  . Music: Symphony Pops  
featuring "Mississippi  Iannelli, New Moon  Madison Center and  concert, Morris  
Masala," Indiana U. - Gallery, Benton Harbor,  Hospital, 11 :45 a.rn.  Performing Arts Center,  
South Bend campus, 7 p.m.  12 p.m, to 5 p.m.  8 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Fraternity fire kills three at Bloomsburg U. 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. "This is a tragic, tragic October 1994, a lire killed five stu­Tragedy struck Bloomsburg dents at a fraternity house. he said. 
accident. The range of
University in Bloomsburg, Penn. early "I never would have imagined that
emotions everyone here is 
Sunday morning when the Tau this university would have to deal Kappa Epsilon fraternity house dealing with is enormous." with such tragedy at all and yet this is caught lire, killing thrRA Bloomsburg the second time it has happened students in the blaze. Two students now," he added. 
James Hollister

and an alumnus escaped the [ire. The fraternity house had been in 
Bloomsburg spokesperson
Junior Marcus LaBuda of llazleton, violation of 12 safetv standard codes Penn., who was the chapter president during an October fnspcction by the and an environmental planning nHy held Saturday night, six males town code inspector, but all infrac­major, and junior Cliff Vail of' slept at the house. At 6'.05 a.m., Urn tions had been corrected by January, Duucllen, N.J., a Rusiness Finance fire department received notice of a Hollister said. major, were identified Monday as two fire at the housA. Classes were cancel11d yesterday at of tho three victims. The third victim Three of the six occupants escaped the university to help students cope has not been identified. A dog also the house and reported being awak­with the tragedy and deaths of their perished in the fire. ened by heavy smoke and fire alarms. classmates. 
"This is a tragic, tragic accident. The fire department has yet to "This is an unthinkable tragedy: a The range of emotions everyone here determine the cause of the fire, horrific accident. II. will be dillicult to is dealing with is enormous," Ilollister said, and the case still is deal with, especially f'or young under­Bloomsburg spokesperson.James under investigation. graduate students," said Timothy Hollister said. · The fire is ·the second firn at Murphy, CEO of Tau Kappa Epsilon 
After the end of a party the frater-Bloomsburg in recent memory. In International Fraternity. 
Campus police raid UNLV dorm 
Georgetown president resigns 
WASHINGTON

LAS VEGAS 
University of Nevada at Las Vegas student Craig 
Father Leo O'Donovan, Georgetown University's 
Alder was arrested March 9 at his dorm for felony 
47th president. announced Monday that he will be 
opium trafficking after a late night raid by 12 police 
retiring after the 2000-01 school year, introducing 
officers in full riot gear. This incident sparked fur­
the final chapter of an 11-year tenure marked by 
ther allegations of campus police misconduct and yet 
dramaic growth and turbulence. O'Donovan. 65, 
another police chief suspension. Robert Ackerman, 
said his decision to officially step down as university 
vice president of student services, placed Sgt. Paul 
president on June 30, 2001, was made after con­
Harris and Interim Police Chief Sgt. Don Drake on 
sul ting with colleagues and members of 
administrative leave Friday pending an investigation 
Georgetown's board of directors and was appropri­
by the Nevada Department of Investigation (ND!). 
ate given this year's finalization of the Medical 
This is the second UNLV police chief placed on 
Center's merger with MedStar llealth and the 
administrative leave in a live-month period. Former 
beginning of construction. O'Donovan's retirement 
chief David Hollenbeck was placed on leave in 
date coincides with the conclusion of Georgetown's 
November following a campus protest concerning 
Third Century Campaign f'undraising initiative next 
problems in the department. Hollenbeck was later 
year. "The university has never been stronger acad­
reassigned as director of facilities policy develop­
emically, and the building projects are well under­
ment and management. The morning after the raid 
way, so it is a very good time for a transition in 
Mark Miles, Tonopah building coordinator, filed a 
leadership," ()'Donovan said. "I wanted to provide 
complaint with Ackerman. Miles alleges Harris, the 
the university an opportunity to find a great presi­
ranking officer in the drug bust, shouted, shoved 
dent. Announcing now makes it easier for the board 
him into a wall and then tightly handcuffed him 
to look for a president expeditiously but without 
after he requested to call his supervisor. 
haste." 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather" forecast for daytime wndition.s and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 22. 
• ..................,NO•..••••""t 

H L Wedne~day L1 59 40 Thursday ~ 61 42 Friday LJ 62 45 
' ' '\ ' ' 

....,,.. 
..........


Saturd~y @, 61 40 
C 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARV
,,,,..""'. ,A, ,¢..
® © D D D. D' CS] 0 ¾i.,
.

High low SP'lowor, ~«In T•llorml Flurrlea Snow Ice Sunny Pt.Cloudy Cloudy
Sun~~y \,{8» 
.57 .. 38 .. 
Via k;soci111&d Pr~s 

~...)•/\;.·--~··.,., ·v "",; •"".:J{j~ 
Atlanta 71 50 Houston 79 70 Philadelphia 52 40 
Baltimore 51 39 Los Angeles 73 54 Sacramento 72 45 ~,r'7)_ A c.£.:1 ~ ~ -I) ~ c::1 Boston 42 37 Memphis 72 52 St. Louis 64 48 
,,,,,~,~-·.....·-=-=-=·i·: ...., __ 
Chicago 59 43 Milwaukee 53 42 Tampa 78 57
Showers T·otorms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V• Assor::ialed Press Graphil:$Net Grand Rapids 55 40 NewYorf< 50 40 Wash DC 54 42 
-------~----------, Wednes<lay, March 22, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Irish debate teaDl visits caDlpus to take on ND club 


We've kicked open the doors at the new FUN TAN University facility on the corner of 23 and Ironwood! Near Kinkos. FUN TAN brings you the nevVest innovations in designer tanning with beds and booths that deliver 40% more tanning rays than any other bed on the market!! 
Why settle for less? 

272-7653 NEW University Location State Road 23 & Ironwood 256-9656 Corner of Grape and McKinley 291-2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironwood 
By ERIN LARUFFA 
News Writer 
It is not every day that Notre Dame students have to argue that the world would be better o!T with­out the discovery uf" A1rn~rica. 
But Notrn Dame dehatP tfrnrn members Mark Styczynski, .Joyce Bohnke and Willis McDonald, all sophomores. had to argue just that in a debate Tuesday night. 
The three students argued against thrne Irish debaters, Michael Deasy, Louise Rouse and Honan Mullen, who won the Irish Times Final Debate, a competition that began in October with 400 stu­denL"i. 
"In lrdand, it's a very prestigious thing to win," said Chris lluck, coach of the Notre Dame debate team. 
Many important leaders in the Irish governrnfmt arc previous win­ners of the compPtition. Huck said. All three current champions are pursuing Jaw degrees in Ireland. 
The team came to the United States about two weeks ago for an American debate tournamenl. They are currently visiting colleges and universities across the U.S. Notre Dame bid to be one of the host sr,hools and was accepted. 
"It's a great honor to have them here," Huck said. 
The statement the teams had to debate was: "This house regrets the discovery of America." The Irish debate team chose to oppose the proposal before Huck had actually read the topic. 
The teams had 15 minutes to plan its argument, before each team member presented his or her argument. 
"It was a little bit odd for me to be debating anti-American," Styczynski said. 
One issue the Notre Dame debaters focused their argument on was their claim that American for­eign policy is based only in American self-interest. 
"Our [foreign policy) motives have always been shady," McDonald said. "We always act in our inter­ests." 
The team also argued that the American culture is pervading other cultures. 
"Yon can go into China now and find a McDonald's on Ticnanwn Square," Hohnko said. "You cannot live your hornii C'ulture Iin a foroign country] ... You can't help but lw inundated ""ith American culturp." 
"We destroy other rnlturP.s," Styczynski said. 
/\nother isstw tlrn Notre Danw debaters argued was the fact that poor Americans are not benefiting fully from Amnrican prospnrity. 
Buth 13nhnke and McD011ald argued that a poor person would bP better off living in Cuba than in the United States because. Bohnkc! said, all Cubans have guarantnPd h<•alth care. 
The Irish debaters opposed the proposition with argument<; such as the bcnP!its of American foreign policy, the possibility for cultures to be preserved within Anwrica's cul­ture and with th,~ possibility for all people to prosper in Amnrica. 
"People want to come here. People want to live hnrp," Deasy said. 
"We're not calling for the com­plete American colonization of the world," Rouse said. "i\m<irica isn't perfect but it is one of the best sys­tems available." 
Rouse pointed out that the U.S. helpfully intervened in Kosovo, even though it lacked self-interest in the region. 
In addition. during difficult eco­nomic times in Ireland. many of' the country's people waited for the "American letter" containing money from relatives who had immigrated to America, according to Mullen. He added that America gave immi­grants the chance to support their both relatives in America and those who remained in Europe. 
"All there would have been is death at home [without relatives in /\merica]," Mullen said. 
Unlike most debates, which are typically decided by judges, Huck let the entire audience vote to dnter­mine the winners. Most of the audi­ence, as well as the three Notre Dame debaters. voted in favor of the Irish team. 
CORRECTION 
Kristi Morris, the Saint Mary's senior killed in a car accident over spring break, was misidentified in a photo caption in yesterday's edi­tion of The Observer. Morris was the student on the top left rather than the top right. 
The Observer regrets the error. 
(C)py SHOP OJCHES RATE 
La Fortune Student Center 
Al'}(,eat 
University of Notre Dame COPIES 
Phone 631-COPY 

· •· ·· ;· Do you try to keep your copy work Yfcfl II well-tuned, but it still seems out ofSPECIALS key? The Copy Shop in the Lafortune High Volume Copying t c'f:. .•Wl,().(ttl Student Center c_an help you orchestrate :.i · 111l O · · your documents without a sour note to be
Color Copying, Scanning, & Printing 
heard. Multi-page documents, postcards, binding
Binding/ Laminating/ Fax Service 
services, color copies and rrlore, all at your disposal Newsletters / Reports / Manuals with a wave of a baton. Stop on in and see how we Complete Desktop Publishing Service can get you singing! 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Quality Copies, Quickly!"' Saturday; Noon to 6;00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
Copyright 2000 • All Rights Reserved • 03100 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 22, 2000 
Pope 
continued from page I 

a remnant of the Jewish temple destroyed by the Romans in 70 
A.D. -and Yad Vashern. a Jerusalem Ilolocaust memorial. 
For nearly 2.000 years, rela­tions bt>tween .Jews and Christians have been strained. A major source of this tension was a formnr Church teaching regarding the Jews as killers of Christ. 
"Historically many of the evangelists created a negative image of Judaism in ordPr to demonstrate the lruth of Christ's leaching," Signer said. 
In this cPntury, the Church has taken steps to improve it.s rnlationship with Jews. 
"Pope John XXIII, as part of his desire to see the Church rPnew itsP!f, looked at the his­tory of the Church and the Jewish people and saw a tragedy." Signei· said. 
Pope John's r,onct~rn led to Nostra Aetate, or "In Our Age," a 196S papal document that denounced anti-Semitism and promoted dialogue between Christians and Jews. 
"John Paul II picked up the lt•gacy of John XXJII." Signer said. Growing up in Poland, lhe pope lost Jewish friends during the !Inlocaust. He has written more extensively about rela­tions between the Jewish and Catholic people than any other pope. In 1979 the pope visited the memorial at Auschwitz and 
in 1986 he visited the Great Synagogue in Rome. But some Jewish leaders question if this is enough. 
Tho 1998 "We Remember" Vatican document on the Holocaust drew criticism for not emphasizing the wrongdo­ing of Church leaders. The pope's March 12 public apology for the sins of the Church did not mPntion tlrn llolocaust specifically. 
John Paul II supports a bal­anC'.ed approach, reC',ognizing both Jewish rights to security in their homuland and th(' Palestinian people's legitimate claims, explained Signer. 

"The pope is perceived by many in tlrn Middle East as a friend of the Arab world, and of the Palestinians in partir.ular," McBricn said. 
The ponliff will nrnct privately with Palestiuia11 leader Yasscr 
Signer explained, 

"It w;/1 be a spiritual
however, that the actions journey for him -one can be ~een as 
.filled with great
positive steps 

meaning. given his age 
towards rec­onciliation of and slate ofhealth.·· past conflicts. 
"The victims 

Father Richard McBrien 
of the 

theology professor
Holocaust are dead. No one can apologize 

WANT To'WRf'tE F<JRtA1f"ossERV"ER 
NEWS DEP.&RTMENT? 

C.A.tL l;.)5323! 
• ·•:>S. 
Arafat and tour the Deheishah refugee camp. 
B o t h Mclfrion and Sig1wr cau­tioned against impossibly bigh expBcta­tions for the pope's travels. The trip is foremost a 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
BOG subsidizes van lending progra01 
By MOLLY MCVOY 
Saint Mary's Editor 
The 1999-2000 Board of Governance held thnir last official meeting on Tuesday, and haHdled a varinty ol' small issues. 
At next week's meeting, both this year's and next year's boards will be in attendance lo turn over duties and privileges. 
Th<' Board votod on co­sponsoring Sister Linda Kors in Urn Spes Unica Hesource Center (SlJRV) office by donating $500 to subsidize the cost of' l1rnding campus vehicles for service projects. The Board approved the funds with two abstrntions. 
"Saint Mary's has a great tradition of' students volun­teering in the community and doing hands-on work," said Molly Kahn, missions commissioner. "Unfortunately, not every student has a car." 
Hose Lutzka, president of Residenco llall Association said the position for National Communication Coordinator will be open for next year. The current coordinator will be going to Ireland and will need a replacement. The coordinator handles all con­ferences tho Association attends and communicates 
wilh other schools nation­wide. 
The nursing departnrnnt will be hosting a health fair on March 30 from 2-7 p.111., said Student Activities coor­dinator Angie Little. The fair will include nutrition infor­mation and massage tlrnra­py, along with information ahout other health related issues. 
"There are going to he some amazing things there," Little said. "The fair should be µar,ked." 
Senior class president Anne Pangilinan explained that tho senior class is deciding on how lrnst to remember Kristi Morris at graduation. Morris died in a car accident on March 12. Class mmnbcrs will be con­sulted. along with the Morris family, she said. She also announced that plans for senior week arc well undnr­way. 
In other Board news: 
. 
Them will be a leader­ship retreat thb WPekend for all incoming board mem­bers. 

. 
The national confernncc for the Residence llall Association will be lwlcl May 25-27. 

. 
Freshman class is hold­ing their spring formal at Senior Bar on April l. 


to them," Signer said. 
"And it's not easy for anyone to look at the errors and sins of their trndition. So more discus­sion, I think, is the next neces­sary step." 
The most powerful aspect of' the pope's visit, said Signer, would be the visual gesture of John Paul II visiting Jewish sacred sites. 
But more than relations between Christianity and Judaism are under scrutiny. 
To further complicate mat­ters, Israel is the site of conflict between Israelis and the Palestinians, who have endured 50 years of Israeli occupation. 

personal pilgrimage. 
"!1. will be a spiritual journey for him -one filled with great meaning, givnn his age and state of health," Mcl3rien said. "I do not expect any major breakthroughs of a religious or political kind." 
The extensivP attPntion the trip is receiving creates an impression that the visit will erase centuries of conflict. Nonetheless. the pope cannot. work miracles. 
"This man is a religious pil­grim whose desire is for peace," Signer said. "But it's really up to all the parties involved to make the peace." 




Wednesday; March 22, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Islamic separatists kill 40 
CIIATI SIN(;IIPUHJ\. India 

Susp1•rt!'d Islamic s,~paratists roused Sikhs l'rnm tlwir honrns. li1wcl up 40 nwn and shot 11wm to dr>alh in whal India's primr rninislrr ral1!1d TuPsclav an act nf "<•tlrnic dransing" in Kashmir. Thr· killings rnnw Munday 11ight as l'ri>sidrnl Clin1on was !wading to India. and as Sikh rc>sidPnts ol' C:hati Singhpura markr>d lhe llindu "f'1'stival of' colors" by daubing ead1 othl'r with r·.olorNI pastes to celrbrntc thr har­VPst. Sonw colors wnrn still there Tucsdav: n:id ,.gainst yellm,,, as bloodstains smeared 11 wall. and thP whitP of shrouds of' 17 victims laid out in th(' trmpk and its gardrn. Three othPr men dird of tlrnir wounds at hospitals. India said Kashmiri ,·r•bPls \\'l'rf' rcsponsibln for lhn mas• sucrP. and acr.us11d neighboring Pakistan ­which also daims mainly-Muslim Kashmir ­ol' supporting tlw ·rcbPls. Both Pakistan and tlw rPbl'ls dPniPd ri'sponsibility and con­dl'mnPd tlw killings. 
Dutch government to compensate Jews 
Tm: IIAGU Ii. !\etherlands 

Tlw Dutrh gowrnnwnt said Tuesday it had agn•Pd to giw thP Jrwish community $180 mil­lion to r·ompensatr• for injustir.Ps tlrny sufferPd in l!olland aftPr rPturning from I\Jazi drath ramps. Tlw sPttlPnwnt Tollm,vPd protests from Dutch Jpws that an earlirr offer of $114 million -which tlw gov<'rnrnf'nt r.allrd its "moral obligation" -I'd] for short of rral redress for misapproprial!'d Jrwish assets. The govcrn­nwnt also earmarked $114 million for Dutc,h victims ol' .JapannsP World War II prison r.amps in tlw former East Indies colonv. now Indonesia. and $14 million for Dutrh Gypsies persecuted by tlw Nazis, th<1 rinancn Ministry spokesman said. "\Vr are happy that this settlenrnnt has bPrn rrarhrd." said Bonni Naftaniel. a spokPsman !'or thP Crntral JPwish Counril. which nf'gotiatPd tlw srttlnnwnt with Financ,e Ministry ol'lidals. 
Turkish police detain 150 Kurds 
lSTANBUL. Turkey 

Poli('(' d<'tairwd rnon' than 150 Kurds on Tuesday aftrr authorities banned public cele­brations or thP Kurdish Nrw Yr.ar in Istanbul and SPV<'ral otlwr cities. In the southeastern city of' Sanliurfa. 1 O pr.oplP were detained for jumping over burning tires. It is a tradition on Nowru1.. thr Kurdish NPw Year. to jump over firP and symbolically burn away impurities and m<'mories. Police detainrd 92 people in the Istanbul nnighborhood of Bakirkoy, where Kurds wer<' said to bP planning celebrations of Nowruz. thr i\natolia news agency reported. At least 55 othi:rs were rounded up in other neighborhoods. Policr said they detained men who werP walking in the area and who they suspf'ctcd wern planning to take part in illegal r:debrations. 
i1MiiMiii&iWD 
AMEX:

DO\V 
I003.83 
-2.4-l

JONES 
+227.10 Nasdaq: 

4711.68 
+101.68 
NYSE 
642.79 
-11.6~ 

S&P 500: ('ompositc 1493.87 Volume:

10907.34 +37.24 l,06'-,990.016 
VOLUME LEADERS 

i;;:Qll2li.tiX I.il~IUIH ~ ~liiliil ~ ~116.Ulil i!8Ui, 
MICROSOF'I CORP  MSFT  •5. 52  . 5', 37~0  102. 75  
PH'!'t.IP MORRIS C  NO  +1. 87  +O. 3725  20.31  
NASDAQ 100 SHARE  QQQ  ;.J, 77  +.f. .0625  111. 75  
CISCO nST!MS  C.GCO  +5. 0):  +&. 7350  H0.86  
01\ACl,E: CORP  ORCL  +3. 28  •2. 5650  80.69  
INTEL CORP  INT<;  +2, 55  +) .,,oo  138. 44  
MC 1 WOIU,OCAM IN  WCOM  +1.U  +O. 6225  U.81  
MERICA OtU,!:NB  AOL  +Q, 76  +O,S:050  67. '38  
DELl, COMPU'l'Efl  DELL  ..o. 54  +O .112 5  58. 00  
JDS UN'IPHASR  JDSU  . 4. 63  +S. 6250  127.00  

.

orld 
•I 


COMPILED Fll0M THE OBSERVEH WIHE SERVICES page 5 
Judge refuses to block Elian from Cuba 
• Court denies U.S. relatives' appeal for an asylum hearing 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

A f'<'dnral judge Tuesday refused to block the U.S. government from sending 6-ynar-old Elian Conza]Pz back to his f'ather in Cuba, saying the court has no right to sewnd­guess the attorney general on mat­ters of asylum. 
TwP!vr davs after hearing argu­ments in the case. U.S. Distrir,t Judge K. Michael Moore dismissed thn lawsuit filed by Elian's grPat­unc:le in Miami. The judge said that "e.Lrh passing day is another day lost between Juan Gonz,dez and his son." 
Elian's Miami relatives said they will app('al, whiln in Washington, Attornev General .Janet Reno said she will consult with other Justice Department officials on how to reunite Elian with his father in a prompt and orderly way. But she did not set any deadline. 
.I ustir.e Deparlnrnnt officials have made clear that thew want to avoid any steps that would traumatize the boy or provoke a c,onfrontation with Miami's large Cuban exile communi· ty. 
"It has been four months since Elian has been separated from his father and lost his mother," Reno said in a statement. "It is time for this little boy, who has been through so muc,h, to move on with his life at his father's side." 
Elian's fate has been debated since he was found dinging to an inner tube off Florida on Thanksgiving. His mother and 10 other Cubans drowned when their boat capsized during an attempt to reach the United States. 
Since then. he has been living with relatives in Miami's Little Havana section and has been the subject of heated protests there and in Cuba. 
In early January. the Immigration and Naturalization Service, in a dedsion approved by Reno, ordered Elian returned to his father. The 
Court: FDA can't regulate tobacco as drug 
But industry foes, disap­t W 0 pointed by Tuesday's deri­largest sion, vowed to push tobacco Congress to change the law compa­and give the Food and Drug nies mis­Administration comprehen­rep re ­sive authority to rPgulatP sented tobacco. t h e 
Tobar.co makers, mean­health time, rennwPd recent sug­dangers gestions that they are will­of ciga­ing to discuss some tobacco rettes in Miami relatives responded with the lawsuit. 
"The determination to grant asy­lum is a matter within the discretion of the attorney general," the judge wrote, adding that he found "no abuse that would warrant a contrary conclusion." 
"It could have been the end ofthe industry ifthis had gone the other way." 
Roy Burry 
tobacco stock analyst 
of treating smoking-related illnesses. 
Roy Burry, who follows tobacco stocks for the investment firm Brown Brothers Harriman. said the Supreme Court's deci­sion on the FDA's authority was critical for Big Tobacco. "It could have been the end of the industry if this had gone the other 
Court's majority that tobac· co use is "perhaps the sin­gle most significant threat to public health." 
Matthew Myers, president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, said 

Lawyers for Elian's Miami rela­tives said they filed a notice of appeal with the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta. The appeal will focus on a provision of 
U.S. asylum law that says any alien has a right to apply for asylum, said attorney Kendall Coffey. 
way." he said, 
Critics of the industry w e r e heart­ened by the dec­1ara tio n by the Supreme 

that comment puts respon• sibility for effective regula­tion of the industry in Congress' court. 
Former Food and Drug Administration Commissioner David Kessler said the Supreme Court decision left Congress with "a moral responsibili­ty" to act. 
The leading tobacco mak­ers indicated they were willing to open discussions with Congress and others on some tobacco regula­tions. 
"This decision closes one door but hopefully opens another," said Philip Morris Cos. Inc .. the nation's biggest cigarette maker and owner of the top-selling Marlboro brand. 
It said it opposed the FDA's proposed rules for tobacco issued in 1996 because it treated ciga­rettes as medical devices and said that could have led to prohibition. 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
The beleaguered tobac,co industry's remarkable sur­vival skills were on display as the Supreme Court ruled that the f Pderal government had no authority to regulate cigarettes as an addictive drug. 
tobacco industry is facing growing legal pressures in suits by smokers and the federal government. 
A jury in Miami is hearing evidence on what damages to assess after finding against the industry in a class-action suit on behalf of Florida smokers. A jury in San Francisco on Monday found the nation's 

regulation. such as enforce­ment of laws to curb smok­ing by minors, fedi:ral over­sight of cigarette manufac­turing and ingredients. 
Their victory on the FDA issue came even as the a case brought by a former smoker dying of' lung: can­cer. 
And the federal govern· ment has sued the biggest tobacco companies to seek reimbursement for the cost 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 22, 2000 

Denny's 
continued from page 1 
Attorney Chris Toth decided not to press charges on Tuesday. !\larch 7, after reviewing a surveillance videotape showing the initial arrest. and, reportedly, after spt>aking with l!erron. who is himself black. 
1-{oseland officials have asked To!h to n~consider, say­ing that while the first arrest, nf freshman Daly lfarnes for disordnrly conduct. may havP been questionable, the other three were not. Thosf-l arrests occurred in the parking lot outside as the other students allegedly tried to prevent Daly's apprrhcn­
sion. "Of the r3 witnesses who field training, Ile was
Al the have come forward all 13 
mreting, approved for
have been supportive of
Agostino police work by showed a lhe police officers." the stute ol' Sf'CO!ld Indiana. videotape, according to
Peter Augustino 
taken from Town Council 
Roseland town attorney
a different members, 
angle in tht) restaurant, lhal shows the scuf'fle begin­ning as the ofTice1·s and stu­dents werl' walking out the door oi' the resl,rnrant to th(' parking lot. 
"It clearly shows the intor­ference with Urn initial arrest and I think supports the dif­ference of opinion that we have with the prosecutor on that point." Agostino said. 
Freshmen April Allen and Tiffany Johnson, both of whom spoke at a press con­feren.. e on Wednesday, March 8, declined to comment on Agostino's findings. Barnes and junior rrancesca Milles­Dave could not be reached. 
There is still no clear pic­ture of what happened outside the restaurant. when the three students were arrested. although one eyewitness who spoke at the meeting said two of the students attacked an officer. He saw the incident both inside the restaurant, and in the parking lot and 
said they were attacking the officers. 
"They were all very rowdy," said the man, who declined to give his name. "IL just got very out of hand when they all got outside." 
Although the four did not attend and there were no rep­resentatives of the University present, the students did have some supportrirs. 
Thomas Bush, of the South 13end Chapter of the National Association for the: Advancement of Colored People, questioned both the validity of the arrest reports and the decision of Roseland to hire Andrews in the first place. The oflici,r had worked briefly for the South Bend Police Department, but was dismissed after failing 
however. 
The two offi­cers wcr<' fired by Denny's shortlv after the incident, and the company sent a represen­tative (o the meeting to gather information. · 
At their press conference, Allen and Johnson said that they relt race was a factor in their arrest, charging that they would not have been approached in the diner's waiting area had they not been black. 
Bush and some others at the meeting agreed, pointing to problems with racial profiling nationwide, but Town Council members and their supporters said that the skin color of the students and the officers was not an issue. 
"I firmly believe that race did not play a part." Agostino said. 
Agostino said he would con­tinue investigating the matter. The Roseland Town Council has its next regularly sched­uled meeting on April 13. 
WRC 
continued from page I 

tion and student activists is bound in the recent develop­ment of a new anti-sweatshop organization, the Workers' Rights Consortium (WRC). 
"l\otre Dame's code ol' con­duct is !raps and bounds alwad of the Fair Labor Association's code," said Maureen Capillo, spokesperson for the Progressive Student Alliance WSAJ. "Notre Dame's code:, which is aligned with Catholic social teaching. is much closer to the Workers' High ts Consortium code of con­duct." 
The primary differonce between tlw FLA and the WHC is in the approach to manufac­turer's violations of organiza­tion standards. The FLA pro­motes a. collaborative effort between the organizations and the corporations to right the violations; the WHC supports full public disclosure of the status of any given corpora­tion's manufacturing condi­tions. 
University administrators tnnd to support the FLA's approach due to a desire to respect the wishes of those 
Botta Trading, L.L.C. is a major market maker of index and stock options with floor trading operations at the Chicago Board Options Exchange, the Pacific Stock Exchange in San Francisco, the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) in New York, and the Amsterdam Stock Exchange, Botta also conducts electronic screen-based trading on German and Swiss equities traded on the EUREX from our Frankfurt office. With over 60 market makers, Botta provides significant market liquidity in exchange-traded options on approximately 500 stocks and indexes. 
Botta does not require its candidates to have a prior background in economic or financial matters. Instead, we carefully seek individuals who have demonstrated strong leadership abilities and who display a keen ability to work with confidence and discipline in a highly competitive, fast-paced environment. Botta has an extensive internship progrrun and welcomes underclassmen to attend its information session. Botta representatives will be discussing and answering questions regarding employment in both trading and technology-related positions for all of our locations. For additional information, please visit Botta's web site at www.bottatrading.com. 
Visit us at the University of Notre Dame Arts & Letters Job/Internship Fair March 24, 2000 1Oam -4pm LaFortune Ballroom 
Botta Trading, L.L.C. 
Chicago New York San Francisco Frankfurt Amsterdam 
corporations with which the University doos business to keep some aspects of their agreements private. 
William Iloye, chairperson of the task force, did not rule out the possibility of Notre Dame joining the WllC, but also said that the University's efforts have thus far been unprece­dented and in that sense are sufficient. 
"Already the task force has recommended, and rather Malloy has approved. the strongest code in the United States on the right to orga­nize," lloyo said. "I believe we're the only university in the United Stat11s that is currently undertaking any monitoring of any kind, and we·rn already in the process of augmenting that, by involving church of'fi­ci als and human rights activists." 
PSI\ rnmnbcff Aaron Krieclcr expressnd dissatisfaction with feelings of contentedness regarding the progress made. 
"A year ago, when Notrn Dame joined the fl.A, there was no alternative," he said. ''Since then the situation has drastically changed." 
A foundational meeting of the WHC is sclwdulod for April 7, The task force has request­ed the presence of a Notre 


You know that noise your heart makes when you work out? 
IT'S CALLED APPLAUSE. 
Think of each beat as your heart's way of cheering you on for staying physically actJve. Want a standing ovation? Try keeping your diet low In cholesterol and saturated fat too. For more ways to lower your risk of heart attack and stroke, visit www.americanheart.org or call 
Fighting Hurt Olaaas. and Stroke 
1-800-AHA-USA 1 . 


Botta Trading, L.L.C. 
has current openings in: 
ON-FLOOR OPTIONS TRADING 
OFF-FLOOR TRADfNG IN EUROPE
• 

• TRADING TECHNOLOGY/ SOFTWARE ENGINEERING 
Dame representative at that meeting, but the WRC has declined, stating that only committed members will be able to attend. 
Shortly after the foundation­al meeting, the WRC will hold an informational meeting to make public the dcc.isions made on April 7. The PSA has challenged the administration to commit to the WHC now, so that it can have a voice in the organization·s founding. 
Tho University has rnqtwsted from the WRC information about membership and partic­ipation such as a budget and mission statement. Currrntly, the official stance is that mPm­bPrsh ip in the WHC is not an option until that information can be obtained. 
"We bPliew in trying to sup­port any effort that seems lo have promise and that is well structured and that allows us to have a sense about what might be involved in participa­tion," Malloy said. 
Capillo challenged tho University to live up to that belief by supporting the WHC. 
"Is it not our role\," she asked, "as a leading Catholic university, to push ourselv1~s lo a higher standard and lead tlw way to the encl of sweatshop labor'?" 
friellds don't let frie11ds drire drunk 

U.S. Department o1 Transportation 
J: "'! J, 

-~; ,,.· ~~ ' ... ' it... 
.. ~· ,., .., :, ...........: .'(·~­
{T
"· 

·:), ~ -~• F.. •· .H ••·.
,,,,~·-. -0l:>i:'' . ,,·,·,_,· •.:, ~~~~-<~-~:·-.:"-·~~,~~:~-~···~.·_,... >.~:.._~ ~ _:~~.:_.. ~~~:} ..~.~F-, ---~'~--!~-=.-.,,!ti:~-~:~·•,,.',.-~.
-.L ~•~•,,.• '_: 

Wednesday, March 22, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Donley: Friends vital in helping with eating disorders 
By ALLISON MAIMONA News \'ilriter 
While it is normal to want to bP attractive, it is not normal to IN your appearance and your rl'lationship with food control vour lifo, said Hita Donlnv, assis­tant dirnctor ol' the University CounsPling CPntcr Tuesday. 
Unl'ortunatPly, as mrmbcrs of a enmp1ititivP environment at NotrP Damn. manv studPnts strugglP with eating problems. 
Donlny spoke Tuesday pre­sPnl!)d about tlw importancn of IH1lping friends who exhibit symptoms of' nating disorders. 
Slrn stressnd that bcforn con­fronting an individual about his or her problem it is helpful to ensurn that a behavior patter has dcveloped over time, and is not a one-time, or short-term, problem. 
Bringing up the subject of an eating disorder before a major event such as final exams or an important athletic event can be detrimental rather than helpful, according to Donley. 
"Pick a good time to talk to the person," she said. "Speak in a confidential place, not in the middle of the dining hall or 
Holt's." 
The best way to approach the subject is to be prepared, she said. 
"llavll a list ol' specific past bnhaviors that caused your con-
Arts and Letters 

Majors & Programs Fair 
Wednesday, March 22 
6:00-7:30 P.M. 
LaFortune Ballroom 

Advisors from every Major and Program including A&L Preprofessional, A&L Prelaw, Career Services, and Education will be present to provide information and answer questions for students interested in the College of Arts & Letters 
A $50 Gift Certificate for the ND Bookstore will be given away! 
CLASSIFIED 
corn, and describe current questions," she said. "Everyone's behavior and conditions that problem starts from a different continue to cause concern," place. Question how their behav­Donley said. She warned that it ior has alTected them spiritually is best to avoid or their rela­blatant accu­tionships. Also sations such as "Don't make be open to the y o u r e fact that there
assumptions, ask
anorexic. may be an 
Although questions. Everyone's a It·e r native 
direct con­problem Starts from a explanation for fron ta ti on s their behav­
different place." 
can be harm­ior.u ful. stating People are concerns and Rita Donley especially vul­rears and the nerable to eat­
assistant director of University 
reasons why ing problems
Counseling Center
the subject is during transi­b e i n g tion pe_riods in broached can help. their lives. Breakups and "Don't make assumptions, ask divorces and other family prob­
lems frequently contribute, she said. 
The purpose of talking to a person who shows symptoms of an eating disorder is. through the presentation of facts, for the person to hear what is being 
Oregon court upholds adoption law 
Associated Press 
SALEM 

The Oregon Supreme Court has let stand a lower court decision upholding the nation's only voter-passed law allowing adul.t adoptees access to their birth records. 
The decision released Tuesday clears the way for the law, which easily passed in 
November 1998. to take effect April 
12. The court gave oppo­nents 21 days to seek recon­sideration and foes can appeal to the 
U.S. Supreme Court. 
The law g i V e S 
adoptees 21 and older access to the birth certificates, which often contain birth parents' names. The Oregon Health Division has more than 2,000 requests from adoptees s<1eking 
~VVANTED 

SENIORS FOR RETREAT* 
'ii!t':tP e, • 
F4 l"C 

NO PREVIOUS RETREAT EXPERIENCE REQUIRED. MUST BE VVILLING TO HAVE FUN VVITH FELLOVV CLASSMATES VVHILE SHARING 
.... \ ,,. ,.--,.,,­

HOPES AND FEARS FoA(j§uTuRg:> ~~:::­
SET ON THE BANKS OF BEAUTIFUL LAKE 
VVAVVASEE IN SYRACUSE, IN. 
POSITIONS OPEN FOR 
\ MAR. 31-APR.1/ 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY AT CAMPUS MINISTAY/1 03 HESBUAGH LIBRARY DIRECT INQUIRIES TO CLARE 1 -3389 
communicated. Hopefully the person will then acrept enough reality to see the serious nature of the problem and receive enough support to accept his or her problem and the need for help. according tll Donley. 
"85 percent of the time the person will deny the facts or b{i very angry," she said. If a friend refuses to get help she recom­mends being friendly and open to the possibility that the person may want help in the future. 
Donley warns against getting mad. 
"Don't reinforce the negative behavior taking place," she said. "For example, if your friend exercises compulsively, don't go running with him/her." 
While listening is one of the best ways to show that you care. Donley emphasized not to let someone else's problem become your own. In the end, the indi­vidual will have to make the decision to seek help. 
"We're not against 
"disappointed 

adopted adults and their on behalf of birth mothers
birth parents finding 
and others

each other ifthey both who are con­
want to be found." cerned their privacy has not been
David Malutinok 

taken into president of NCFA account." 
birth records. 
Six anonymous birth mothers challenged the law, arguing it would violate their rights to privacy. But they'vr, lost three rounds -a trial judge and a state appeals court rejected their arguments before the state's top court declined to review the lower court judg­ments. 
David Malutinok, pn~sident of' the National Council for 
Adoption, said 
the group was 
"The NCf-A 

stands for mutual consent rather than forcing this on someone," he said. "We're not against adopt­ed adults and their birth par­ents finding each other if they both want to be found." 
Four other states Tennessee, Kansas, Delaware and Alaska -grant adoptees access to birth records, said MadPlyn Freundlich, executive director of the Adoption Institute, a New York-based adoption research organiza­tion. 
While the group doesn't advocate for or against records laws, she said, surveys indicate that adoptive and birth parents support the idea of opening records. 
"Those who not want contact have been found to represent a very small minority," she said. 
Adoptees who support the law say they should be given the same opportunity as every­one else to know who their parents are. They say that find­ing their birth parents could help detect potential health problems and give them a sense of identity. 
But opponents say birth mothers received promises from doctors, nurses, lawyers and adoption agencies that their identities would never be revealed and that most have no desire to be contacted by chil­dren they gave up years ago. 
page 8 The Ob.erver . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 22, 2000 
Maryland hostages safe, suspect killed 
. Standoff that began Friday ends after police storm building 
Associated Press 
DL:l\'DALK. Md. 
t\ftnr two hostages jumped to safetv from a window in their h;me. police stormed their apartment. rpscued a third hostage and fatally shot the man who had held them <'.aptive since Friday. police said. 
"!\II of the hostages aro safe," police spokeswoman Vickie Warehime said. 
.Josnph Palczynski, who took the thre<' hostage on Friday. was shot to death by police. The only shots fired at the end of the standoff came from police. 
The standoff began Friday when Palczynski, 31, allegedly forced his way into a home in a Baltimore suburb and took Lhree people hostage, includ­ing the mother of his former girlfriend. He is accused of kid­napping his ex-girlfriend on March 7. killing four people over a two-day period and leading police on a manhunt for more than a week. 
The girlfriend's mother and her boyfriend jumped out the window while their 12-year­old son slept on the kitchen floor and Palczynski was asleep on the sofa. 
Police tactical squads then burst into the home, rescuing the boy and fatally wounding Palczynski, police spokesman Bill Toohey said. 
"They broke through the window. encountered Mr. Palczynski in the family room, and shot him," Toohey said. 
After days of sporadic gun­fire at police vehir.les and other targets outside the apartmfrnt. a single shot was fired inside the apartnrnnt Monday afternoon, police said. 
Toohey said Monday that it did not appear anyone was injured. Toohey, howevRr, admittPd that. negotiators wPrn relying Palczynski for informa­tion. I le was believed to have four Wl'apons and an unknown amount of ammunition. 
Authorities say Palczynski abducted former girlfriend Tracy \Vhitehcad at gunpoint while fatally shooting George and Gloria Slrnnk, tlie couple who had sheltered her. She said he had boat her when she moved out of their apartment and moved in with a co-work­er. OutsidA the Shenk home. he allegedly shot and ki!lod David Meyers, 42, a neighbor who tried to help Whitehead during Lhc struggle. 
Whitehead escaped the next day by running to a police ofTI­cer who happened to be at a motel when~ Palczynski took her. 
Also that day, police said, Jennifer McDonel was fatally shot and a 2-year-old boy was wounded when they drove by as Palczynski fired shots dur­ing an attempted carjacking. 
Palczynski then led police on a manhunt for more than a week, surfacing in this Baltimore suburb Friday. 
That day, police say, he broke into a home and stole guns. then shot his way into the home of Whitehead's rela­tives and held them hostage. The captives were Whitehead's mother, the mother's boyfriend and their 12-year­old son. 
Powell rules out bid for vice president 
Associated Press 
WASH[NGTON 
Retired Gen. Colin Powell said Tuesday he would not run for vice president, but did not rule out possible service in the Cabinet of the next president. 
Responding to a question dur­ing a broadcast from the ReservP Officers Association. Powell said he gave the idea of 
running for office "the greatest con­sideration you can give to an issue,'' but he said he stands by his 1995 decision 11ot to run for prcsi­den t and to stay out of elective poli­tir.s. 
Powell. 62 and a rcgis­t e r e d R0puhlican, is 110\11, being 
"You have to have a certain feeling for it, a commitment, passion. And ifI'd said I had it, I wouldn't have been honest to myself. I wouldn't have been honest to the American people." 
Colin Powell Retired U.S. general 
mPntioncd as a possible running mate !'or George W. Bush, the likely lfopublican presidential 
nominne. 
"You have to have a certain fe,~ling \'or it. a c-ornrn itment, passion," said Powell. "And if I'd said I had it, I wouldn't have been honest to myself. I wouldn't have been honest to the American people. 
"I have no desire for political office," he said. 
But he did not rule out serving in the new Cabinet. The former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has been mentioned as a possible candidate for secretary ofstate or defense. 
"Any pres­ident that comes to you and says, 'I need help, and Would you be inter­ested in per­forming this job?' you have to sec whether or 
not it's 
something you feel you can do for tho presi­dent," Powell s a i d . 
"Wlwther or nnl you say yes is another matter, but you have to consider it." 
Powell curn'ntly divides his time between public speaking and running "America's Promise," a nonprofit organiza­tion dodicated to youth issues. 

Clinton pushes for peace in India 
Associated Press 

NEW DEi.Hi, India 
President Clinton won India's pledge Tuesday to pursue peac!'ful means of resolving ten­si.ons with Pakistan in the face of new bloodshed in Kashmir. ''.Thero is nu threat of war," said Prime Minister /\tal Hihari Vajpayee. 
B u t I n d i a rej11cled 


Clinton

Clinton's call to slow its nuclnar weapons pro­gram. 
The president was pressing bis case for stronger U.S. ties with India in an address before members of both houses of Parliament, his last appointment in the capital beforn heading into farther rnaches ol' this vast land. 
"We have noglectnd this rnla­lionship for more than two decades." Clinton said after talks with Vajpayee. "It is too importanl to ever fall into disre­pair again." India aligned itself' with the Soviet Union during the Cold War while the United States tilted toward Pakistan. 
The president joined Vajpayee in denouncing the massacre of dozens of Sikhs in Kashmir and promised to press the point to Pakistani leaders -IL'> he has to India -that violence is not the solution to their dispute over the Himalayan territorv. 
Although India ·is one of the poorest countries in the world. Clinton was not exposed to the gritty side of New Dnlhi. Looking out f'rom his armored limousine, he saw instead a city of tree­lined boulevards and lush gar­dens and fountains, gated man­sions and colonial palaces. He also stopped to pay respects and drop rose petals at a marble memorial to Mohandas Gandhi, the revered pacifist and freedom leader. 

Leaving New Delhi. Clinton begins thnm days of sighl<;miing. lie will tour the Taj Mahal, go tiger watching in a game pre­serve and perhaps ride an ele­phant at a historic palace. 
Vajpayce called the killing ol' 40 villagnrs in Kashmir an act of "pthnic cl!~ansing" and said, "We have the means and the will to eliminate this nrnnacfl." India blamed the massacre on Pakistani-backed separatist organizations: those groups d1mied involvement. 
Clinton said he would urge military-rulfid Pakistan in his visit there Saturday to respect the line of control that separates tlm portions of Kashmir held by India and Pakistan, to show restraint anri to "stand against 
think that's right." He made his comments in an interview with ABC News. 
Despitci tensions, Vajpayec declared; "There is no threat of war. India is committed to peaceful means. We are pre­pared to solve all our problems, discuss all problems on the table. We do not think in terms of war and nobody should think in those terms in this subconti­11cnl." 
Refusing to cndorso thn Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Trnaty, Vajpayee, wary of thrflats from Pakistan and that country's own nuclear capabili­ty, said Im explained to Clinton "the reasons that compel us to maintain a minimum nuclear deterrent." 
llowevcr. he said. "I have roit­crated our firm commitment nol to conduct further nuclear explosive tests, not to engage in a nuclear arms racn and not to bp, the first to use nuclear 
violence, restore the 

"We have neglected this 
dialogue." 

Pakistan relationship for more 
has asked than two decades. It is the United 
too important to ever fall
Stales lo 

try to help into disrepair again." setile the Kashmir 
Bill Clinton 
dispute but 

U.S. President
India has rejected outside 
weapons against any country." 
Clinton said he still hoped India would sign and ratify the test ban treaty -which the U.S. Senate has rejected. 
Purther, Clinton said, "I felt today that them was a possibility that we could reach morn 
mediation. In Islamabad, Pakistan Foreign Minister Abdul Saltar said he hoped Clinton could use his "healing touch" to [ind a peaceful resolution. 
Clinton expressed reluctance about getting deeply involved. 'Tm not going to be dragged into something that. first of all, that India doesn't want us to be part of. And secondly. that I got dragged into from deliberate acts of violoncc. I just don't common ground on the issues of testing, on the production of lis­si le matnrial (the fuel for nuclear weapons), on export controls and on restraint, gener­ally." 


Later, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright acknowl­edged that "we still have a lot of work to do on the spocifics." 
Shfl said the United States and India need to hroadPn their dia­logue. 
Chemistry 

Engineering Materials Science Human Resources 
Environmental Science Business, l1inance, &Accounting 
Information &Process Control Technology 
Wednesday, March 22, 2000 The Obseruer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Gore challenges Bush on census 


manipulation will <lo nothing to a statement saying the Texas
Associated Press 
reslore public confidence in the governor "beIieves decisions ethics of this administration." about tobacco regulation should NEW YORK While the candidates disagree be made by Congress and state
:\I Gorn on Tuesday (·hal­
on the census, Bush and Gore legislatures."
lengod George W. Bush's con­
reacted similarly tn the U.S. ''He believes that Congress
cern for minorities, saying they Supreme Court saying the fed-should pass tough laws to keepam shortchanged ~ a census eral gov­tobacco out of the hands of kids, 
that con­

ernment similar to strict anti-teen smok­
gn,ssional I a c k s ing laws he advocatfld and
H<'pub­
authority signed in Texas," the statement1 i r a n s to regulate added.
refuse to 
tobacco as On th!' crmsus issue, the gov­111odernizfl an additive ernm c ni has said the 1990in orrler to drug. Uoth count, which did not use sam­get a rnor(! 
callrd on pling. missed 8.4 million people
accurate 
Congress and double-counted 4.4 millionrrnmt. 
Gore to pass leg­people.
·•1 want 
islation to Tho St1prPme Court rulml last
to sav to 
further year that raw census numbers
Covprnor Bush. if you rnally must be used to reapportionbuliPVP that evorv American 
Gore. whose sist<'r died of congressional srats in the
rounL<;. il's limn to· stand up to lung cancer, called on Congress House, but left open the possi­
tlw opPrativPs in your own 
l o bility that
party and support a census that approYe a sampling
counts l'vnry i\nrnrkan." tlw "In a nation o_f'250 million 
law to could be
vico pn~sidenl said. people, it's ridiculous to believe
give tho used for
ll,imonals like Gore have 
federal that the most accurate way to o t h e r
long supported changing the cPnsus to incorporatti sampling, Food and count everybody is purposes, 
D r u g such as
a way of statistir,ally adjusting by sending out people with
Admin­the data
actual headcounts to account 
istration clipboards and pencils." used to
!'or populations with traditional­
authority decide
ly low r<1spons<' ratns, surh as to regu­the distri­
minority groups in cities. Al Gore
late nico­bution ofHPpublican lawmakers have 
Democratic presidential candidate
tine as an federal!'ought sampling, which could 
addictive funds.
lowPr lwadcounts in GOP-heavy drug. Gore suggested the old count·
Hrt'aS. 
"Tobacco is one of the most ing method is outdated. 
Bush spokesman Scott 
addictive substances known to "In a nation of 250 millionMd.(•llan defrnclPCI the head­man and should be regulated as people, it's ridiculous to believecount mPlhod. and accused a drug," Gore said. "... It is time that the most accurate way toGorn of playing politics. "Given for the Republican Congress count everybody is by sendingthe Clinton-Com administra­and George Bush to show their out people with clipboards andtion's history of using nonparti­independence from Big pencils," he told 150 sta!T mem­
san govPrnnwnt agPndes to 
Tobacrn and do tlrn right thing bers of the Lenox Hilll'urtlwr tlrn political agenda of by passing lrgislation that has Neighborhood llouse, a com­D<•mrn:rats. subjPding llw cen­had bipartisan support." munity service center on
sus to the risk of partisan 
The Bush campaign rdeased Manhattan's Upper East Side. 
McCain returns to Senate after GOP race 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

John McCain, who joked with campaign audiences that he'd never win a Miss Congeniality award in the Senate, returned to the 
Capitol today say­ing he expected "a warm wel­come." 
A smiling McCain was swarmed 


b y McCain reporters as he approached his Senate office. The Arizona senator said he planned to catch up on paperwork and would meet later today with former Sen. Warren Rudman, the national co-chairman of his presidential campaign. 
"I'm looking forward to hav­ing lunch with all my friends tomorrow," McCain said. referring to the GOP luncheon held Tuesdavs when the Senate is in session. ''I'm told I will be extended a warm wel­come." 
Indeed, public displays of graciousness are sure to mark his return as a more formida­ble political force than when he left. It's the Senate's way, even though he ran a presi­dential campaign that rocked the Republican establishment and used fellow lawmakers as foils. 
McCain suspfmded his GOP campaign on March 9 and left for a vacation. Some support­ers want him to launch an independent campaign for the White House, though McCain has been cool to the idea. 
During his campaign, 
McCain pilloried "establish­
ment" Republicans and 
Democrats. saying they are 
out of touch with America and 
beholden to special interests. 
"Senators are in conflict every day with each other, in committee, ovflr issues, in let­ters, in the media, on the noor," said Paul Coverdell, H· Ga., Senate point man for like­ly GOP presidential nominee George W. Bush. "But it has a fraternal nature to it and you have to set the battles ... aside." 
Beyond the displays of sena­torial courtesy, the Arizona senator's allies say fellow Republicans will ignore his new political clout at their own peril. 
"There are only two United States senators who have a truly national constituency. One's name is Ted Kennedy and one's name is .John McCain," says former White House chief of staff Ken Duberstein, a McCain friend and senior adviser. 
Republican pollster Ed Goeas said a recent national survey pointed in the same direction. and that McCain can help GOP candidates in terms of fund raising and voter support. 
WHAT CAN I DO WITH A DEGREE IN MATHEMATICS? 
Many excellent career opportunities are available to students with degrees in mathematics. Of 250 occupations ranked in order of desirability by the 1999 publication Jobs Rated Almanac, the top six are all mathematically based! The training and analytical skills acquired in studying mathematics are precisely what many c01npanies and professional schools look for. Here are some of the careers pursued by recent Notre Dame graduates in mathematics. 
• 
Actuarial Positions in the Insurance Industry 

• 
Computer Programming and Systems Analysis 

• 
Management Consulting 

• 
Teaching at All Levels 


• 
Post-graduate Study in Business Administration, Computer Science, Engineering, Law, Mathematics, Medicine, Music. 


For information about majoring in mathematics contact Professor Warren Wong (wong.l@nd.edu), Department of Mathematics, room 315 CClVIB. · 
page I 0 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday , March 22, 2000 



' .,; 
Make a Difference!
. 

Start your own tutoring or mentoring program 
Funding Available!!!! 
Interested? Come to 
/ 

1010 Flanner Hall on March 30 at 7:00 p.m. 

interested entrepreneurs contact John Eriksen at 1-4447 or John.R.Eriksen.1@nd.edu 
~~ ~~ 




Wednesday, March 22, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 


t y 0 f n o t r e dame
Gnivers i 

JUNE 19 -AUGUST 4, 2000 
anthropology 

The 2000 summer session will begin 
_Q* 
art biology
(f) '1'/(\'t; business 
(f) Q) 
(/) 
L 
Q) 
E 
E 

:) 
DART will be available for summer registration from March 22 to June 23. Students 
may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during this period; no appointment limes are necessary. 
Students may register far summer session courses at any time up to the first day of the course. Students who decide to register after DART closes on Friday, June 23 must complete the standard summer session application/course selection form. 
(/) 

Air conditioned and non-air conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for these se1V1ces may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer session of 2000 will be $232 per credit hour plus a $40 
general fee. 

.Uisit The Observer Online. http://obseruer·.nd.edu 
,Mark your calendars 
Ellen Bravo 

Co-Director of9 to 5 National Association of Working Women 
"TVhy All Employees 1Veed A Women-Friend~y ivorkplace" 
Tuesday, April 4, 7;30 PM Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 

Reception with food in Greenfields Cafeteria following talk 
Since 1973,? to 5 has worked to improve the workplace for women. This org~n1zation. which inspired the movie, "9 to 5," has helped win protections ~gamst s~xual hara,ssment, greater ac_ccss to family leave and child care, and ~hange: 11_1 worn:n spa~ an,! promotion opportunities. Brnvo is the author of 77:e r; to 5 C,wdeU> Comb~tmg 5exual Harassment and Th(! Joh!Familv Challenge
A

9 lo;' ?u1de (!vor_For Women On{v). She is a well-known speaker on working womens issues and ,s trequemly interviewed by the media. ,. 
CAMPUS fNFORMATION: 631-8093 
I 

Co-Sponsored by the Economics Department, Law School, Gender Studies. American Studies Dept., Higgins Labor Res~arch Center Center for Social Concerns-South Bend Heritage Partnership for (_;omrnunity Development 
The lksburgb Cent~r i~ !he first budding on the right un Notre Dame,\ve as you cmer campus. I· rrc parkmll: in the l:lookstorc lot across thr strrcl mi Notre Dllme Annu<. 
chemistry classical languages computer applications 
economics engineering 
english 
french german government 
history 
international relations 
italian japanese 
mathematics music 
philosophy physics psychology spanish sociology 
theology 

on Monday, June 19 (enrollment) and end on Wednesday, August 2 (final exams). Some courses -primarily in science and languages -will begin and end .before or alter these dates. The summer session Bulletin contains complete schedule 
information. The Bulletin is available at the 
Summer Session Office (510 Main Bldg.) 
beginning on Thursday, February 10. 
Information on summer courses, as it 
appears 1n the Bulletin, is also available 
at the summer session Web site 
(http://www.nd.edu/-sumsess/). 
Notre Dame continuing students ­undergraduate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 2000 who are eligible to return in the fall ­must use DART 1) to register for summer courses and 2) to add or drop courses through Friday, June 23. The DART PIN (personal identification number) for summer will be sent to all continuing students 1n early March. Course call numbers, along with all olher course information, is published in the Bulletin and at the Web site. 
THAILAND 
U.S. helps expose drug-selling Web sites 
Associated Press 
BANGKOK 

Twenty-two people have been arrested in Thailand for allegf'dly selling prescription drugs on the Internet and exporting them to the United States, Thai and U.S. ol'ficials said Tuesday. 
The arrests were the result of a joint operation by U.S. and Thai customs agents, the first case in which the U.S. govern­mont had a hand in closing the Web sites of foreign companies exporting drugs that can be bought in the United Statrs only with a prescription. 
Tranquilizers, diet pills and steroids wern among the drugs the threfl Internet. pharmacifls 
Foik Nominations Invited 
The Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee invites nominees for the award, which is given annually to a library faculty member who has contributed significantly to library service to the Notre Dame community or to the library profession through personal scholarship or involvement in professional associations. The award is named for the Holy Cross priest who served as director of Notre Dame's library from 1912to 1924and was a leading figure in the library profession in the first quarter of the 20th century. It is among those announced at the President's faculty dinner in May. Recent winners have included Dwight King, Jr., Head of Research Department, Law Library, Stephen Hayes, Business Services Librarian, and Katharina Blackstead, Library Advancement Officer. These three past recipients will serve on the 
award committee. 
All members of the University Libraries' and Law Library faculty with two or more years' service are eligible. Please send names of nominees, including a letter or other supporting documentation, to the Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee, c/o Larry Rapagnani, Office oflnformation Technology, by March 31. 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow-Air Fo ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision · Choose to become a leader
-,·, 

~~ ; 
Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to make your decision, now. 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens tor America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
targeted in the sweep were accused of mailing overseas. mostly to customers in the United S!al<\s, a U.S. Embassy spokflswoman said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Six people have also been arrested in tlrn Unitfld States for allegedly buying drugs from a Thai Internet pharma­cy. slrn said. 
"Many of these Internet pharmacies are fly-by-night operations set up overseas to avoid U.S. law," U.S. Customs Service Commissioner Haymond Kelly said in Washington. "They have little regard for patient safety. They'rn only interested in making a fast buck, then mov­ing on to the next victim." 
At one of the targets, Bangkok-based Vitalitv Health Products, 80 percent of onlin<) sales went to U.S. buyers, said Kevin Dfllli-Colli. director or Customs cybcrsmuggling cen­ter in Fairfax, Va. 
"We're seeing Valium, fen­phen [the diet drug], Viagra and a lot of anabolic steroids," Delli-Colli said. In some cases, the quantities involved "sug­gest people are buying them for distribution." 
Prescription drugs are readi­ly available over the counter in Thai pharmacies, despite growing government efforts to regulate pharmaceutical sales. 
The 22 suspects, arrested from November through January after almost six months of investigation, face up to five years in jail for vio­lating Thai export regulations, a Thai customs investigator said on condition of anonymi­ty. 
U.S. authorities are addition­ally preparing indictments, as the suspects are also liable for prosecution under U.S. law, the embassy spokeswoman said. 
Thai Foreign Minister Surin Pitsuwan said his government, which is hosting a meeting this week of 20 Asia-Pacific nations on fighting cross-bor­der crime, pledged full support for further cooperation on ille­gal Internet sales. 
-·-----•·~ ­
VIEWPOINT 
OTHE page 12 BSERVER Wednesday, March 22, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dama. IN 46556 ()24 Sourh D;ning Holl, None Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MAN,\GING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noree11 Gillespie  Tini Lane  
ASST. MAf'-'AGING EorroR  0PFRATIONS MANAGER  
Tim Loga11  Brian Kessler  

NEWS EmTOR: Anne Marie Mattinglv V11:V1TOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MA.RY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EmTOR: f.i1 Lang 
ADVF.RTISING MANAGER: Par Peters AD DESIGN MA!l;AGER: Chis Avila SYSTEMS AOMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner GRAl'HICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OmcE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7·¼71 
FAx............................................................. (,31-6927 ADVERTISING.... .. ..................631-6900/8840 obscrvcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CH!EF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnRIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 observer.obsncws. l@nd.edt1 VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SroRTs..: ..................................................... 631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYST.EMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE Visit our Web sire ar http://obsm1er.11d.ed11 for daily updates ofcampllS news, spons, learures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/mmic for

weather for t1p-ro-rhe 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
cial campus coverage

and rates ofprim ads 
about The Observer

archives co search for 
to meec rhe editors and

articles published after 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Edirorial contem. including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither insmurion. The Ohserver reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of rhe Edi car in Chief. Managing Editor. Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include conrace information. 
Queilio,I:! regarding Obscroapolicit's shouldhe direttrd to Fditar m Chi(( Afike Ca,mol(~. 
Before I open up the l1oor lo shame­less name calling and finger wagging, let me be sure I've got this straight. 
More than thrne weeks ago four black Notre Dame students were arrested by two white securitv guards at the lociil Denny's after much Jason McFarley hullabaloo both inside and outside of the restaurant. 
The Bottom 
The charges against 
line

them were dropped, but short­ly thereafter the students under­standably cried race. And now some knuckleheads ... um, Roseland Town Council members ... want to see the charges reinstated? 
Did I miss something'? 

Not likely. After all, Denny's did find that the two arresting officers crossed the line in bringing the students into custody. According to restaurant man­agers. the "jai!house four" as well as their five friends (all of whom are blark) should have never been approached, let alone handcuffed and manhandled. 
Notre Dame administrators rallied behind the students. Father Mark Poorman, University Vice President for Student Affairs. calied the situation "a serious injustice." Poorman told The Observer earlier this month, "We all know this is more than an isolated inci­dent. It is symptomatic of a problem that pervades our society and our com­munity." Apparently he can smell a rat -or two. 
So can local authorities. St. Joseph County Prosecutor Chris Toth concluded that the Terrible Two were well out of order. After reviewing arrest reports and surveillance tape of the incident. Toth said the arrests were "clearly unjustified." 
To their credit, Denny's was quick in giving the officers the boot. And now area newspapers and broad­casters arf' reporting that it wasn't the 

first time that at least one of tlw officers fell far short of his duties to protect and serve. One man was a former Scmth Bend police officer who had been let go due to "unsatisfactory job perfor­mance." 
So what is the town council trying to pull'? Why the big stink over a pair of seemingly rotten apples? No, really, I'm bafffod. Is the council naive or just a bunch or meanies? 
Sure. they could be a group of mod­ern-day idealists, magnificently contfmt Lo see that everything's coming up roses in this happy world. Hey, ignorance is bliss, right? 
So maybe they're busy believing in the colorblind society where nine young blacks can walk into a public place and be perceived merely as a band of friends -not as a gang. Or where the same nine can stroll into a restaurant looking for a meal -not trouble. 
Of cours<~ in such a racially equal world when white officers scuflle with black patrons over knocking down small waiting area signs, it's completely warranted. 
But it's almost as ridiculous for me to consider the town council naive as it is l'or them to pursue the chargBs against thB students. Let's face it, we all know better. That's why what's happening alarms me. Roseland's elected govern­ing body wants to support two men con­demned bv no less than nine students and countiess university oflicials, com­munity membors, the county prosecutor and even their own employer. 
One question comes to mind: Why? 
Help me understand. What are they lighting for? For the positions of two men who conceivably aren't lit lo police or secure anyone or anything? For Denny's and the sake of eating estab­lishments everywhere? For the dignity of the five or six-mile stretch of Iloosier highway they call Roseland? 
Perhaps. though, it's a matter of what they're fighting against. That's certainly more easily answered. 
Let's ser:, given thdr stance on this situation, they must be utterly opposed io civil rights. That. then, means no venturing into any Roseland restaurant. J\t least not to sit down and eat. That is, ir it's a Saturday night. J\nd you're the wrong color. 
By the way. no arguing with Roseland's finest either. Police brutali­ty, what's that? Who cares on what grounds you're being arrested; shut up and go with the flow. 
Man, they sure are setting us back a good 40 or 50 years. And just when I thought the days of being tossed from the lunch counter wore ovor. Leave it to Roseland to give blacks not only a hard time but also a blast from the past. 
Now if I soem angry and sarcastic, it's because I don't want to be sad. Sad that college students had to resort to biting, scratching and spitting to avoid being steamrolled by some dirty cops' brand ofjustice. Sad that they am so much worse for the wear and that this ordeal will, ifit hasn't already. leave them more harsh, cvnical observers of and participants in life. 
[t's morn than a little distressing to think that they face the endless dil1\m­ma of being expected to respect the law while linding that the law in many instances dons not work for them. 
Want to bring tears to my eyes? Find me some intelligent prominent citiZPns willing to go out of their way to shatter the normalcy of a group of young adults' lives. Shouldn't be too difficult; 1 hear the Roseland Town Council meet­ings are open to the public. 
Bottom line: What two errant oflic11rs lost doesn't begin to compare to what nine college students surrendered three weeks ago -their innocence. 
Jason McFarley is a freshman in the First Year ofStudies. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer. 

SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You can't hold a man down without staying down with him." 
Booker T. Washington educator 
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 22, 2000 OBSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
We could use a little crisis 
Tlw sociologist C. Wright Mills speaks of indif'­fnrPnce and uneasiness as two major problems in sociPly. It seems that Notre Dame is a society to which this applins. Mills giwis four possible states: well-lwing, crisis. imlifl'Prence and uneasiness. Well-lwing is clwrishing a snt of values which are 1101 Um•atPmid in any way. Crisis is clrnrishing val­ues which are threat1lncd lncliffrrence is defined as tlw slahl or not !wing awarn or eitlmr cherished valuPs or threats. Finally, unm1siness is the state ol' 11ot bPing aware of d{Prished values, but only of tlw thrNtl. Tim qtH'st.ion now is, when1 are Notrn DanH\ studm1ts on this scale? 
The ideal. of course, is that Notre Dame students would be in a statr of well-being. That is some­thing !'or which I am quite certain we all wish. If one·s idPals are n~al. one~ can do nothing less than hopl\ that them will be no t.hrnats to those ideals and tlwy will p11rvade society. 
Of cotirsP. it sef\ms almost impossible tn be in a total stall' ol' wr.11-bPing. Perhaps thern are those \Vho arP rnmplc\t.Ply salis!iPd with roality and soci­Pty as tlwy are. but it s1wms that for most peopl11, society dof)S not rnach their own idr.als nor hold tlwir own values. ;\t lr.ast, sodetv docs not hold tlw valuPs which most prol'rss ___: whetlwr or nol llwy aetually l\Old those values themselves is up to dPbatP. 
In any casr, a Catholic or Christian in g1meral could n·ot be in a statl' of wrll-being. There is poVPrty. war. murder and all kinds of evil in this society. A trur Christian could not possibly be con­tPnt with such a d1ipravrd world. 
It sePms that tlw Christian and thus tlw vast ma,iority ol' I\Jotn• Dam,, studPnls must be in a statP of' crisis. As Christians we hold lofty values and idrals. For Catholics, legalized abortion, tlw d<'ath p('natty, s1mseless wars. the divorce rate, the multitude of broken homes and tlrn general depravity of lirP among much of America's poor can do nothing but threaten cherished values. 
Society seems in direct conf1ict to the Christian's values. Why then are Notre Dame students not up in arms'? It seems that any who felt their most fun­damnntal and cherished values threatened would d<i anything to protect tlrnm. /\.s the students of the pn•rninr Catholic univm·sity in America, it seems that WP should be leading the defense of Christian valu1\s. This, of course is not the case. 
By far. it seems that Notre Dami' stud•rnts are co11Wnt with tlwir situations. On the surface it sPems that we am all in a state of' well-being. llowcver, it has been shown that no true Christian could possibly bl' in such a state of well-being in such a tim11 as this. Thus. perhaps we come to the conclusion that Notre Dame students arc, in gen­oral. not true Christians. 
Maybe this is harsh, but I believe deservedly so. Indifli-ircnce plagues this University. I do not con­demn llw olhm· students here. for I am certainly part of the problem. I have a certain indifferenc11 in myself -a certain lazin11ss rnally. I believe myself to have high ideals. but. in fact, ifl had those idmtls I would b<l protecting them from the throats of soci11ty. How could I stand by on the policies of Notrn Dame about sweatshops and homosexuality or sit idly by and watch the com­m unity of South Bend as a passive observer, never lending a hand. It seems more likely that I am in a state of indifference. 
I hav1' not a real awareness of the values I claim tn hold. and thus I can perceive no threat to them. Of course. every Notre Dame student is not like this but I do not believe I am alone in my indifference. 
Indiffornnrn takPs many forms in this llniversitv. Often it seems that it is sfmply an unwillingness to speak up. Whether it simply be pointing something out in class or writing a letter of protest to Monk, wn are unwilling to do it. It seems that the only way to combat this indifference is revealing th hypocrisy. No real Christian should be able to go lo Mass nvery Sunday in such a state of indiffer­ence. 
It seems odd to say, but perhaps we all need a little crisis in our lives. 
Justin Bonner Sophomore Sorin College Febrwuy 16, 2000 

Remember your inspirations 
As I sit in a hospital waiting room in Cleveland, two that bears so much weight, it reaches inside of you and words run through my head -"scrub down." Fifteen touches your heart, so to speak. It might be something minutes earlier I read them as I passed through a door a friend says to you, or something you overhear on the on my way to a friend's room. I can remember the con-bus, or a line spoken in a movie. text those words were used in, but I can't begin to It can come from any number of sources at any time. remember the exact sentence. Maybe it wasn't a sen-You're never expecting it, but you always notice it. tence. Perhaps it was a statPrmmt or a an order. Is Usually, it comes at a time of much sorrow, but oddly there a difference? Now a new series of thoughts enough, the feeling helps to comfort you. P.nters my h11ad. My attention momentarily turns to the It's at this moment that you step outside of your body North Carolina/Stanford game on the television, but --~ and sec the world the wav its meant to be seen. You 
as the announcer uses the word "bad," my thoughts turn to something my friend's mother said earlier. 
Three days earlier, I picked up the phone in my South Carolina condo and attempted to phone my friend in his Cleveland hospital room. His mother answered instead and explained that today was a "bad day." Upon arriving at the hos-pita! this morning, I was greet­ed by the same mother and the sarrrn words. This marks my 
initiation into the world of the chronically ill. so often char­acterized by the "good
day/bad day" description. ~"-:.:=:. 
An hour passes and the f-'--• --=­group of Notre Dame students ' ~ that has gathered at the hos-~ pita! settles in for an ­impromptu mass in the wait­ing room along with friends and family of' the patient -my friend. Throughout mass, I \I can't stop thinking about "scrub down" and "good day" vs. "bad day." It seems funny that a few random words can dominate my thoughts for a day or even a life­time. What if they weren'tjust a few words, but a sentence, or two sen-. tences or a statement (if there's a differ-P,nce)? 
see what's really there -and for that instant nothing is clouded by the fe111ings of fear. 11, , doubt, or shame forced on us by today's ; t societv. And in these moments, we find ' , : ours~lves inspin~d to do what our heart really wants. Often, we let this inspiration slip away as the real world slowly creeps back into place. Sometimes, a tiny part of the 
-1.inspiration remains with us andImotivates us to follow our ' heart along a path we passed'Ii up before. Whatever the out-
j' )come. we experience a few
DWN ­

·.i. . ~econds of what ':a~ n'ally.
-f;'. I mtended. My adv1ct, to you. /ti Cherish these moments. itl// RemembPr the inspiration:,,j and do your best to realize 
) whatever dreams it inspires. 
i~ 

1 / r Back in the Cleveland hospi­/ :/I 1: tal my friend's mother tells me 
, j she's sorry I won't be able to , ,,-' sec my friend that day. I tell i ; her it's okay, knowing sheI/I 1 does~·t realize the gift she gave 
. · l-me w1th the words she spoke ear-I ' lier. I promise her I'll be back 
dW 
• I soon, to which she replies there will ! I be "good days," and hopefully my / next visit will fall on one of them. 
I tell her the good days will always outnumber the bad. She smiles, I promise 
~
I find myself lost in these thoughts when I notice my friend's mother is speaking. She fights back tears and occasionally pauses to regain her com­posure as she assures us my friend, if he could see us, would look each one of us in the eyes and tell us he is going to beat this thing. That's the moment-the moment that inspired this letter. The moment that makes life special, in my opinion. The moment that lets us pull back from all the influence society and the sur­rounding world has on our everyday thoughts and actions. 
Sometimes, not that oftP,n, someone says something 
to keep her in my prayers and we say our 
goodbyes. 

As I turn to leave, I start to think about "scrub down" again and remind myself to check the sign when I walk out the door. By the time l reach the door, however, I'm back on the subject of "good days" and "bad days." I'm not so sure today was a bad day ... 
Matthew Meyer Senior Zahm Hall March 21, 2000 

Criticism of Bob Jones hypocritical 
I appreciate Jim Kwiatt's letter (Thurs., March 9) regarding George W. Bush's campaign at Bob Jones University before the South Carolina primary. I agree with him that American politics is in a sad state where candidates are making "politically strategic moves" rather than caring for tlre welfare of the people they represent. However, I arri a bit alarmed at his conclu­sions. 
I have never set foot on the campus of Bob Jones University, but I do plan to visit it in the future. I have received a paper from their campus web site responses at www.bju.edu/response.htm. and have carefully read it. 1know many Bob .Jones graduates (including Bob .Jones IV who completed the coursework for a doctor­ate degree in history at Notre Dame a couple of years ago} and I have been impressed with their integrity and high morals. I have come to a different conclusion than Mr. Kwiatt based on personal experience rather than what the media leads us to believe. 
First of all, I am sure that if Mr. Kwiatt were to look at every university in America he would find something at each university that he would disagree. Each institu­tion has a purpose statement and policies it adheres to that helps it accomplish its purposes. That is part of the privilege and beauty of living in America. 
America is the most religiously diverse nation in the world, with all of the denominations and sects dis­agreeing with one another and yet getting along amaz­ingly well. I believe that---1mr forefathers called it free­dom of religion. When institutions do not agree on cer­tain areas, iL does not mean that one side hates the other. 
I was raised Catholic and have strong Catholic par­ents. I left the Catholic Church when I was a junior in 
. 

college. According to Mr. Kwiatt because I don't agree with my Catholic parents, I hate them. Do I? Most cer­tainly not! Do they hate me? I don't think so! Do I call my parents bigots or do they call me one? No. 
According to Mr. Kwiatt's reasoning and conclusions, because he disagrees with me, J should be calling him a bigot and a "member of a hate-espousing organiza­tion," (namely Notre Dame), which is like the Ku Klux Klan who misuse Scripture in order to justify its actions. (These are pretty strong words and seem to place Mr. Kwiatt on the same level as our name-calling mud-slinging politicians!) 
I hope Mr. Kwiatt is careful in throwing stones at Bob Jones University. He called BJll an "institution rooted in bigotry." The definition of a bigot is "one obstinately or intolerantly devoted to his own church, party, belief, or opinion." It was announced on the Larry King Show recently that BJU has dropped their inter-racial dating policy. I thought bigots obstinately didn't change. 
In closing, I want to ask two questions that will prove that both Notre Dame and Bob Jones University are not open-minded (and are therefore institutions of so­called bigotry). Would Bob Jones University allow a Notre Dame graduate who adheres to the Notre Dame doctrinal statement teach on its campus? No. Would Notre Dame allow a Bob .Jones graduate who adheres to B.JU's doctrinal statement to teach on Notre Dame's campus? No again. Please take the beam out of your own eye before taking a speck out of another's. 
Steve Giegerich Senior OffC~mpus March 21, 2000 


Nunnin' around 

Tlw nun costunw h1Ls long bren a thing that I have had qm,stions about. The coslunms seemt>d to make tlw wonwn bPhind tlwm sooo.. hard to gPt to. "Tlw Gn·ut Humun Empcr'or PPnguins" ruled the icebergs of Catholicism. and thrst~ righteous women would waddlP tlwrP ,var to sal\'atinn bnaring \\oodP11 ;-rossns. rosary hPads. and biblPs. /\l lr\ast that is thr old imagr that I had. Thr nuns of wdav. lwwt'VPr. an' way hip anldown to Parth and don'L wear the old gr.t-uµ any morP, at lea.-;t around hen'. 
rrvou'vp PVPr wondPrPd whv nun~ don"t wear a costume · b{~rf' at Notrr DamP. it is bN·ausP most rnligious orders dPcidPd that il wasn't necP.s­sm-v lf'vou want to know mon• ab,;ut 1{unning. l rr:C'ommend that vou spPak to a nu11. Most ofth(m1 v.ill talk to vou. thal is. il'vou lmvP a srcret nun decodPr ring and know thP S('CTet nun handshakP. But somr don't even rcquirr that you havr accrss to that stuff. Thf' mPssagP hPn• is. "talk to nuns." It nPver hurL'i to haw a few good nuns on your sidr. Pspr.cially thr.sP days with all that sin going around. 
Also. ifvou PVPr make a nun mnd. vou will have the µowP;. from other nuns tn countr.~·act thP nun ·s prayPrs against you. Just kidding around. "luns 1wwr prny against pPople.just on thPm. Just kidding again. Only vampin' nuns do that. The nun profes­sion is PxtrPmelv honorable and doesn't desrrvP to bP pokPd fun at~ but I reel lhat one can nevfir bn too humblP. 
Sometinws bPing friends or just talking with a nun can SPPm intimidating. In that case. the best lhing to do would bP to sPe a movie about nuns to grt warmed-up. A f'ew movies that have good represen­tations of nuns are "The Sound of Music." "Madeline" and TV's "The \Vr.ekend Nun". But reallv thr bPst representation of a nun can be found in a · movie called Sister Act. After watching thesP movies rou'll bP singing and dancing with Pvery nun you meet. 
A fun nun artifact that you rnn see on r.ampus is the nun r.hute. I think it is attar.bed to the First Yrar of Studies Building. Anyway. it is the building next to Lewis Hall. There is a cylinder attar.bed to the build­ing that served as a nun fire escape. It is a twisty slidf:. The door isn't locked eithP.r. and vou can stick your head up then~. or even dimb up there. and experience fire escaping the nun way. 
Nuns an' great. but I honestly wouldn't mind if somr. nuns took timf' to feed some of the birds. Then nuns could walk around campus with birds on their shoulders whistling happy songs. I think life would seem lots P.asier if I saw that kind of stuff everyday. That would bP really something. 
I have often thought it would br a fun idea to havP a nuns vs. priest.-; softball game. or water balloon toss. or BPngal Hout'i. I bet they could raise a lot of money doing something like that. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer 

Scott Little 
just a litlfe 


By ERIN LaRUFFA Scene Writer 
To enter I Inward Hall. on<• must pass undrr thr often­quiet lloward Hall arclws. 
1 lowewr. the hall's entrance is not llw only quiet parl of thf' dorm. SituatPd sideways on South Quad. I Inward I !all has a reputation as bc\ing onf' of thP morn quiPt dorms on ('ampus. 
"I think wr. arc probably onf' of tlw morn consm-vatiVf! dorms on campus ... We take our studies seriously," said Sue Hinderlider. now in her lhird and final year as the dorm's rector. "We'rn not one of the run-around-and-act­like-fools kinds of dorms." 
Part of the reason that the dorm is mlativrly quiet is that 50 of il9 167 residents live in single rooms. 1-!inderlider said. 
"We get a lot of people who lloat in from other dorms for singles," she said, explaining that those residents tend to be less involved in the dorm. "I think that does make a differ­ence 
In addition. hardlv two rooms am alike, and few other dorms have two-roo;1 doubles. Hindertider explained. 
"It has a home-like feel." said freshman Veronica Kelleher, adding that it does n(Jt havP a "cinderblock atmosphere" like some newer dorms on r.ampus. 
"I think we're unique both architecturally and spirit-wise ... We're kind of here d(Jing our own thing," Hinderlider said. She also said that the dorm's small size allows il-; resi­dents to get to know each other better. 
"Just the fact that Howard is a small dorm encourages a close-knit sense," said Camille Fitzpatrick. a Howard RA. "Since it is small. it's totally dependent on social groups in the dorm." 
lloward residents tend to "move in and out of [each other'sJ rooms like ilc; one room." Kelleher said. 
''I've always really liked it ... This is where my closest friends have come from since the start of freshman year." said Fitzpatrick. who does not believe that the large num­ber oJ' single rooms affects thP social atmosplwrP of tlw dorm. 
Fitzpatrick's decision to become an R/\. during lwr st>nior year was easy. she said. 
"All my friends stayf1d in lloward. so it wasn't a big sacri­fice for me to stay on campus." Fitzpatrick said. 
lndm,d. 26 seniors live in I-Inward. which I lindt>rlidPr said is unusual. especially considering I loward·s size. 
Both Ilinderlider and Fitzpatrick did say that lack or social space wa.'i a problem in the hall. 
"I do wish that Iloward had more social spacP. Pspecially morr. 24-hour spacP.. If you have a bunch of' guy friends over. you pretty much have to go somewhPre rise," Fitzpatrick said. 
Nevertheless. the location of the dorm -on South Quad across from the dining halls and close to the lakes -is par­ticularly convenient, Fitzpatrick said. 
The dorm was built in 1924 and was converted to a women's dorm in 1987. the same year the dorm adopted il"> currr,nt mascot, the I toward Duck. 
The atmosphere of thP dorm has changed somewhat since it was a male dorm. 
According to KellehPr, whose father lived in Howard in the 1 %Os, the male rnsidenLi; used to play football in the hallways and often hit the exit signs. 
Another difference is that the dorm's "green loungP... now used as a study area. once served as a television lounge. Kelleher said. 
Despite the dorm's reputation for being quiet. Kelleher said she has noticed that many of the dorm's cnrr<'nt rPsi­dents enjoy playing music loudly. 
Unlikf: most dorms. Howard was not named after a priest or donor. Instead, the hall gets its name from Timothy Howard, a former dean of the Notre Dame Law School. Howard. who completed his undergraduate degree at the University in 1864. also served as Chief Justice of thP Indiana Supreme Court. 
Though seen as different from other dorms. the Howard Ducks enjoy their quiet place on the lake. 
Patchouli brings their new sound to Dalloway's 
By AMANDA GRECO S,ene Ediror 
Tonight :it Dalloway's, th!' Saint Marv's and Notre• Dame con11nunity will br treated to a musical innovatiori. Originating from the Patchouli Chicagoland an·a. tlw band Patchouli calls . Where: Dalloway·s 
their style 
. When: Tonight, 8 p.m.

"jamfolk." 
"It's our wav of saying it has folk roots but also a lot n!' world music influence. as well as jazz. reggae. world beat and funk. " said Julie Hecksel. lead vocalist. gui­tarist and bassist for the band. Hecksel is accompanied by Bruce Hecksel on guilar and Josh Weinstein on drums. them one year ago lO complete their Th<' band mPmbcrs us<' many diffornnt current sound. Though the group itself instruments. such as is l'airly young, they marimbas and l'lutes. "Wp,'re trying to bring a good. arf' highly con J'idcnt to create their unique in their ability to
positive, earth-conscious, 

sound. app1rnl to various
upl~fting music for people to 
Patchouli has been musical tastes. 
touring from Minnesota to North Carolina. making stops everywhere in between. The chosen venues have mostlv bePn collrge campus"­
listen to." 
Julie Hecksel lead vocalist 
"Heally we arc just trying to bring a good, positive, earth-conscious, uplifting music for 
peop\e to listen tu,; I hats our goal. 

es. Borders bookstores, festivals and Earth Day concr,rts. The tours coincide with the forthcoming releasf' of their latest album, Vision, which will be available on Earthsign records in April. 
The Hecksels have been playing together for over six yoars. Josh joined JuliP llecksel said. · 
ThP. show promises upbeat music, new sounds and audience participa­tion. For more information on Patchouli. visit their web site at www.patchouli.net where you will find bios. photos, mp3's and more. 

The members of Patchouli (Josh Weinstein, Julie and Bruce Hecksel) at a recent show. 

Wednt:sJay, March 22, 2000 page 15 
Keenan Knights are a brotherhood of men 
By LOUBEL CRUZ S<c·ne \Xirrrt'r 
ll S('Prns ,tpproprialP that a dorm whos,i mascot is lhP "h:night" has thf' hall motto "FralrPs in 
ChrisLu." I.atln fur "Brothnrs in Christ." Hut, thin is r•i,;ar,tlv !10w tlw mnn of' ~''<'nan llall virw tlrnm­s1•lvPs ·and tlwir dorm -as u pl,tcP wlwrP log-C'thPr­1wss r1l11 bP dcvr-lop1•d through Christian s1~nicc and broth1•rhood which is obvious in lhrir d0dica­li11n l11 sPrving both thPir own hall and tlrn nntir<' '\otr,• Danw campus. 
"\\!1• atll'mpt to bP a Christian community of' frl­lowship wlwrc• Pa<'h pPrson is trr-atrd with dignity and rnspt>i-l and wlwrP r~ach rr'sident strives to lH\ as ,·on<!l'l'llNl !'or tl11' 111'.Pds nf othrrs as h,, is l'or himsP!f." said FnthPr Gary Chamberland. Kennan's !'Pclor. 
Tlw dorm was built in 19:.7 through a donation uiv1•n In· llw KnPn,rn l'amilv o!' Fort \Vavnc. Ind .. in ~wmor,· of tlwir son .lanw~ ~""nan. Jr: Thr ,·indn bind; l)uilding was a f'rrshman dorm until th<' lalP 19(,0s and consists of rwarlv all doublt>s. K,wnan is now tlw honw 01· nParlv :1do mPn who tak<' great pridP in tlw strc·ngth of tlwir dorm spirit that is t>vi­clPlll wlwn visiting the hall. 
"Tlwr" is a sPns1• that vou ,HI' l\lllPring a commu­nil\ wl11·n• PVPrvo1w kno~\'S Pa!'h othnr," said /\aron Osiand. a n,sid;•nt assistant inf' K<:cnan. "EvidencP or this l'an bP found whPn on!' sr,Ps that, in most µla1·ps in 1hr dorm. you f'ind <'ntirn sPrtions where all of lhP doors ar,• 01wn, and K(wnanites arP stand­ing out in tlw hall talking to Pach othrr or playing sonw sort ol' hallway sport. lt is a vrry soda! atmos­plwrP that is vPry wPlcoming lo otlwrs." 
"BPraus,• of tlw 'c-indrr blork' appParanc·p f'rom tlw outsidr· and small rooms on thr insidr, KPr-nan gu\'s lrnrHJ togdlwr lo mak1• lil'P in the dorm intc·r­Psting." said Br·n StaufTPr. also an IL\. "It makPs it ,•asiPr !'or p<'op!P to g'r>t togPllwr and parlicipat<• in group arliviliPs and sports. I don't think you would rind this kind of' unity in many othrr dorms on cam­pus." 
KP1•nan rnrn takr• gTPat pridP in thPir rommitmflnt Lo sPrvin' ,rnrk that tlwir rnsidPnts do to enhance llwir Christian spirit. and cspPrially tlw work thPy do as a dorm. This strnss on community sPrvir.c was 
television for Dismas House and having a weekly Revue. They consider Zahm as one of their "sister 
('mphasit.f'd by thrir former rector Brother 
rnllection at mass which is donated to various char­dorms" !along with Cavanaugh) and claim their lit­Honavl'nlurP Srully. who began thr Notre Dame 
ities. Keenan also began the Great Pumpkin Contest, tle brothers live in Stanford. 
Expi'riPncP INDE! shortly aflrr coming to Krcnan in 
an annual Hal!oween event. when students take Keenan also is noted for their great success in 
1')84 and rPtirPd at tlw Pnd ol' last school year. 
children from the South Bend Boys and Girls Club interhall sports. They have two undefeated football 
"Hrotlw1· Bonav(•ntun· often told us to SCP Christ 
around campus to go trick-or-treating and have also seasons in 1997 and 1998 and numerous champi­in 01w anotlwr and lo do at !Past onr thing per day. 
started their own Oiversitv Week which has now onships ranging from cross-country to volleyball. 
no maltPr how small. in sPrvir:1• ol' someone else." 
become a campus-wide event. Last year, they were the Rec.Sports recipient for 
said Osland. "/\nd this mPssagr is something 
"Keenan's service is unparalleled," said Stauffer. best all around dorm in interhall sports.
KPPnanitPs tak,, lo heart." 
But the most popular Keenan activity, both in the Some famous former Keenan residents include Joe This commilnll'nt to sl'rvic·p is now being contin­
dorm and throughout campus. is by far the Keenan Montana, basketball player Ryan Humphries and 
UPd bv K('Pnan·s n('W rnctor. Chamberland. 
Revue. This annual entertainment showcase is put former basketball captain Derek Manner. Keenan "\V(~ allPmpl to look bPyond the borders of our rm by Keenan residents for Notre Dame students was also named Dorm of the Year in 1996 and walls to addrnss thP nreds of the Notre Dame and 
free of charge and entertains nearly 5,000 people 1998. 
South Bend communities." he said. "!The service evflry spring. "Although we may not be the prettiest dorm to activities I shows that KePnan men undr.rstand their "Until someone witnesses how the show is put look at, we more than make up for it with our spir­Christian rnmmilmPnt to !ovr God through thn ser­
together in a matter of two weeks, it is impossible it," Osland said. 
vi1·<' ol' th,•ir rrnigh bor." 
to truly appreciate the amount of work that goes "We strive for dorm unity through service to the 
Sonw or th,\ snrvirP work Kflenan dofls includes 
into producing our annual gift to campus," said community and togetherness in all our activities,"
l'unding and building lockPrs and tablfls at El Bufln 

Osland. Stauffer said. 
Vr•cino. making a wPckly din1wr and purchasing a 
Keenan's sense of humor does not end with the "Fratres In Christo." They prove successful. 


NIELSEN RATINGS 
k of Mar. 6-I2 

Show Rating Total Viewers 
1
. Who Wants to be a Millionaire 19.5 19.6 million 

2. 
Who Wants to be a Millionaire 17. 5 17.7 million 

3. 
Who Wants to be a Millionaire 17.2 17.3 million 4. 60 Minutes 14. 7 14.8 million 5. Friends 13.9 14.0 million 


6. The Practice 13.4 13.5 million 
7. 
ABC Special Report 12.0 12. l million 

8. 
Touched by an Angel 12.9 13.0 million 

9. 
ABC Special Report 12.0 12. l million 

10. 
Everybody Loves Raymond 11.0 11.1 million 


Photo courtesy of www.NBC.com 

Now in Its sixth season, 'Friends' is still there for 
Source; Associated Press 

viewers on Thursday night Must See TV. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 22, 2000 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Hamilton teaches Hurricanes benefits to life of discipline 
doing morn than tear.bing them 
Associated Press 
to be better basketball players. He wants them to be better
COHAL GABLES. Fla. 
people.
Miami coach Leonard "He's like a father."sPnior
Hamilton tugs at his black guard Vernon Jennings said.
dress µants. showing how loose "He's rais<'d us since we were
they are on his lOO-pound young. It's noL normal for aframe. His belt is buckled on 
roar.h, but I understand that'sthe last hole. 
coach Hamilton's nature. Ile
Hamilton is 20 pounds lighter cares about our well being and 
now than vvhen the season 
how we become mf'n."
began. Each October, Hamilton Ilamilton's philosophy sternsbegins a diet of' fruits. vegeta• 
from his father. "Big"John
bles. juires and broilf'<.l. baked 
Hamilton, who died last fall or grilled fish. turkey and 
arter a long bouL with r.ancer
chir.ken. 
and diabetes.
'\Jo pasta. No red meat. ;\lot Leonard !lamilton can tell
evPn a s!irP of bread. a glass of counLless stories about howmilk or a piece of candy. 
tough .it was to bt' Hig John's
The diet isn't about losing 
son. Talk about discipline.
weight, though. 
1-Ie remembers running as
!L's about discipline. 
fast as he could to get insidP
The trait comes from his 
the house before the slrcetlightfathnr. and Hamilton trios to came on. If thP streetlight c1tm11 pass it on to his playPrs. It's 
on and you were not inside. 
one rPason the Hurrir.anes (2:~­
you were late. That was the1OJ. seeded sixth in the South 
rule. and Hamilton broke it. 
Regional, are in the third round "I hit the porch and the light
of the NCAA tournament and 
came on. l was a second toowill play seventh-seeded Tulsa late and I was disciplined. "hp 131-4) on Friday. 

said. "That was one of' the
''To dfmy yourself' of rertain worst whuppins I had."

things that you really enjoy. it Thf'rB was anoth1:ir limr
helps you stay for,uscd." 
when Hamilton and his broth­Hamilton said. 
ers were supposed to cut tLe
The 51-vear-old roach, in his 
grass. They didn't, and when
10th seas~n with Miami, teach­
Big John rnme home at 'mid­

es his players to do the same. 
night, he got them out of bedThey are not allowed to wear and put them to work.

hats indoors. They are not 
They didn't finish until aboutallowed to listPn to headphones 4 a.m. 

on team buses or planes. They 
"We're who we are as ahave a strict dress code for result of what we areteam events. And they are 

taught, "Hamilton said. "Those lot,"forward Elton Tyler said. Hamilton has taken thP­is no arena, no tradition. little never allowed to be late. 
I are things that my father "He's had a lot of discipline Hurricanes to a school-record media coverage and a small 
In fact. they are required to

I taught me. He always said to throughout his years, so it can't three consecutive NCAA tour­fan base. He has become one of
I 
be 15 minutes early. If tardy,

I work twice as hard as the com­be that hard for us to trv to do naments. It is a remarkablP­the hottest coaching names in
I they get a "love session",•,ith 
petition and never not give 100 it." . task considering he has done it the country.the conditioning coach. who p8rcent. I've always found Hamilton began coaching as with little talent and even less Georgia Tech wants to talk to 
makes them run. bike and run mvself in everv situation wanti­a graduate assistant at Austin support. Hamilton about succeeding 

some more.
f I ng to work hai·d. Peav in 1971. lie took an assis­In 10 years at !\1iami, Bobby Cremins. But Hamilton 
"That's the worst thing you 

"You have to want it more tant job at Kentucky in 1974 Hamilton has had one player in said he isn't even addressing
could do."center Dwayne 
and being willing to give more and became the associate head the NBA (rookie Tim James of the situation until the season -Wimbley said. "That's why I'm effort to get it. That's the only coach there in 1980. the Miami Heat). two players and his diet -are over. 
never late." 
way I know." He got his first head coaching drafted (James and Constantin "I enjoy doing what 
The players have embraced 

And that is the only thing the job at Oklahoma State six years Popa) and four All Big East­do,"Hamilton said. "I enjoy myHamilton's ways -even lead­Hurricanes have seen for the later, joined on the staff by cur­Conference selections (.James, relationship with my players.
ing scorer Johnny Hemsley, last decade. rent Tulsa coach Bill Self. Popa. Hemsley and Mario The strength of' the pack is in 
who has been suspended twice "If you follow coach Hamilton Hamilton spent four years with Bland). the wolf' and the strength of the this season for violating team when he was growing up, you the Cowboys before coming to Hamilton continues to recruit wolf is in the pack. That's our rules. They know Hamilton is can see that he's overcome a Miami in 1990. players to Miami, where there philosophy." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune S1udent Center Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Mid Free Pick-Up & Delivery! Call 631-COPY We're open late so your order will be done on time! 
Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls Research. http://www. geocities.com:80/Athens/ Rhodes/7031 /deadsea .html 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND GOLD & SILVER TWO· TONE WATCH IN FIELD BEHIND O'NEILL ON MONDAY, 3/6 
CALL KATHLEEN 4-0562. 
FOUND: Metal watch in Hesburgh Library. Call Tim to identify @ 247­1107. 
WANTED 
ASPIRING WRITERS! www.maincampus.com seeks stu­dents for s1ories ranging from Politics/Sex/Culture/Opinions $25 per story! Email us at learn@maincampus.com 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: 
Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for handicapped children. Located on shore of Lake Superior near B19 Bay, Ml. for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation/Canoeing/Ka ya ki ng, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children June ii through August 
6. Salary, room & board, and expe· rienceof lifetime provided. Call or write for application and informa­tion. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 
W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855, (906) 228­5770, e-mail BayCliflHC@aol.com 
The South Bend Parks & Recreation Department (The City of South Bend) is currently accepting applications for golf rangers. con­cessions. beverage cart drivers (must be 21) and other seasonal help. Pay ranges from $6.00-$8.00 per tlour. Apply at the County City Bldg. 14th floor EOE Foosba/1 players wanted-high level players-looking for 2-3 teams.Call 2574441 evening-ask for D. 

SUMMER INTERSHIPS CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT Pierce Assoc., Inc. a large regional mechanical contractor with head­quarters in Washington, D.C. wil be on campus 3123 -3/24 holding interviews for summer 2000 posi­tions. Interested engineering or business majors should immediate­ly forward resumes to Jdunleavy@pierceassocia!es.com 
SUMMER JOB: Caregiver; two chil· dren, ages 7&8. Mon·Fti,7:30AM­3:15PM. Jun 12-Aug 18 Granger. 272-6107 or 284 3485 
FOR RENT 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5·bed­room, $1000/monlh. 2) 4-bedroom, $900/month. 3) 3-bedroom, $700. Call Bill at 675-0776. We'll make almost any changes to the houses. 
1721 Rerick 3 Bedroom, Family room with Fireplace, Fenced Backyard, ClA Gas Heat, Across From Park, Very Safe Neighborhood $995/rno 12 mo lease Call 232-4527 Close to Campus 219-340-1844 616-683-5038 Look! New Home tor Rent 314 Bedroom 3 Bath. Cathedral Ceilings, Fireplace,Relrig,Range,Disp,Dish. Washer & Dryer.Gas heat IC/A, 2· car garage.Family room.Close to Campus. 616-683-5038 219-232-4527 219-340-1844 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097 
FOR SALE 

New Phone Card 886 mins. $20 258-4805 or 243-9361 
Home for sale: 3 BR, 2 Blh. 2000 sq ft + full basement, 2 car gar. 5 min from ND, $99K. By appt. 288­9167 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $235 219·862-2082 
PERSONAL 

www.thecommentator.com 
Need help with a project? 

Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING services are available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Call 631-COPY 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
High-Speed Copying Color Copying 
Resumes Business Cards 
Fax Service Desktop Publishing & a whole lot more! 
Prompt Pick-Up & Delivery Call 631 ·COPY 

SAINT JUDE NOVENA May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be adored, glorified. lived, and preserved throughout the world rrow and for­ever. Sacred heart of Jesus, pray for us. Saint Jude, worker of mira­cles, pray for us. Saint Jude, helper of the hopeless, pray for us. Say this prayer nine times a day, by the 8th day your prayer will be answered. Say 1t for nine days. IT has never been known to fail. Publication must be promised. 
Lewis Crush is coming ... 
SIiiy (er) Way to go Mom on your police exam. 
Go Irish, beat BYU! 
ready for a party, Amber. Allison and Mary? 
I like the white skirt, Al. 
why do classes always get in the way of ttle things you want to do? Notre Dame would be so much more fun without them. 
Up for a run soon. Col? 
I had no idea you guys were so hilarious. Not a clue. 
A mi companera de cuarto quien le ama la cancion de "booty" tanto comoyo. 
Kat, running sounds like a plan and I think gambling could yield good results as well. 
Chubby Rain, this is a little shout­out to the man who is going to be regulating in a certain dorm next year. Are you jealous you don'1 know all the words to the "booty" song like some of us? 
Hey Katie Metz: your mom is an electric moving vehicle 
Hello Kelle, you are a dear! 

Wednesday , March 22, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Professor Denis Donoghue is a Distinguished Visitor at the National Humanhies Center, and the Henry James Professor of English and American Letters at New York University. 

The Inaugural Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 

"Adam's Curse: Christianity and Literature in the Twentieth Century" 
All lectures will take place at 4: 15 p.m., Auditorium,,., Eck Visitors' Center (Notre Dame Avenue, south of the Morris Inn) 
Thursday, March 23 
God without Thunder 
/,; ' . ·>f, 

Tuesday, March 28 
Beyond Belief 

Thursday, March 30 
The Idea of a Christian Society 
Tuesday, April 4 
Christ and Apollo 
Thursday, April 6 
Otherwise than Being 
Tuesday, April 11 
After Virtue .... 
Thursday, April 13 
Church and World 
Tuesday, April 18 
The Death of Satan 
t 
~ 

E R A S M U S1 ~ t<ti S T I T U T E 
J "~ • A
~Ll_r-:::f. 

Cosponsored by the Office of the Provost and the Erasmus Institute Initial funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the generosity ofan anonymous donor, The Pew Charitable Trusts, and the University of Notre Dame 
page 18 The Observer . ~PORTS Wednesday, March 22, 2000 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Boeheim focuses on leading Syracuse to Final Four 
. Orangemen are determined to win despite dim odds 
Associated Press 
SYR\CL'SE, N.Y. 
The crowd will be aj{ainst ihPm and so will ttrn odds. Syracuse coach Jim Bocheim is unfuzed as he tries to lead his Orangcmcn back to tlw NCAA tournament's Final four for thf' sf'cond time in five years. 
··we're  plrrying  tlw  game  
wlwre they tell  us  LO  play it."  
Boeheim  said  as  he  began  
preparing  for  a  trip  into  

Micl1igan State's backyard on Thursday. "We're go.ing to go out and play. We're not worried about something we can't con­trol." 
Afti>r vict.or.ics over Samford and Kenturky in the Midwest Rrgional. fourth-sr,cded Syracuse (26-51 will play the top­SPPded Spartans f28-7l at the Palace in Auburn llills. l\1ich. That's just a short drive from the Mirhigan State campus and, to top it off. l\.lagic Johnson. who lPd Mirhigan State to the nation­al championship in 1979. is experted to be in the stands rooting for his alma mater. 
Spartans coach Tom lzzo is happy for that, but doesn't think the site offers his team that much of an edge. 
"We haven't played a game there," he said. "~one of the players have been there. The crowd could be an advantage a little bit. but nothing like what we went through in North Carolina" in a third-round loss in 

1998. 

The Spartans, !rd by point guard Mateen Cleaves, are on a seven-game winning stniak. with tournament victories over Valparaiso (65-38) and Utah (73­61 ). Sino• the start of the new year, they are 19-3 and playing as well as any team in the coun­try. 
This, howpver. is not the regu­lar sAason. 

"Everybody understands it's a one-game situation," said Syracuse's Jason Hart. whose job will be lo neutralize C:Jraves. "The pressure isn't just on us. It's on them as well. Tlrny're supposed Lo do it. We'n, just going to be right here as a stum­bling block." 
Syracuse is coming off a difD­rult 52-50 vktnry iwer Kentucky. The Ornngemen, who had to play much of the second half without center Etan Thomas because of foul trouble, hit just 20-of-63 shoL-; from the field (32 percont) and were 4-of-21 on 3­pointers. 
"We shot pretty bad." said Preston Shumpert, who won the game with a clutch basket from the right corner in the final minute off a feed from Hart. "Sometimes that's going to ·hap­pen. \>\'e've just got to try to look forward to the next game and try to get that out of our minds." 
Because the Spartans are soaring and Syracuse has gone 7-5 since beginning the season with a flourish. the Orangemen are decided underdogs. That suits them just fine. 

GOLFPASSES NOWAVAILABLE! 
THE NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
STUDENT 

Spring Passes $50 Course opening through Graduation 
Fall Passes $50 

Orientation through course closing 
Annual Passes $125 
Pass holders may can 631-6425 for tee times up to 30 days in advance 

WARR£N 
GOLF COURSE 
WARREN GC 

STUDENT 
Annual Passes 
$500 
Fall Passes 
$200 
Pass holders may call 631-4653 for tee times up to 30 days in advance 
Wednesday, March 22, 2000 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Padres' Al Martin faces charges of bigamy, assault 
Associated Press 
PEOHIA. J\riz. 

Thn San Dif!go Padrns· low­kPy spring training turned bizarre whnn /\I Martin was accused of' hPing a bigamist and chaq~Pd with nxchanging punchns with a woman who claims shn brcame his wife in a Las Vegas wndding. 
The outnetder. praised as a clubhousf' lP-ader after the Padres got him from Pittsburgh last month. and Shawn l-laggerty-Martin were arrested on assault charges late 1Y1onday night. 
The police report contained accusations of bigamy. threats with a gun and a wedding that Martin admits attending but didn't think was real. 

According to Clark County records, a Shawn M. Haggerty married an Albert C. Martin in Las Vegas on Dec. 11. 1998. The police report lists Haggerty's middle name as Michelle, but Martin's is listed as Lee. 

"Everyone's shocked," third baseman Phil Nevin said Tuesday. "He's a great guy." 
Martin and Haggerty-Martin were released on their own recognizance. and told to stay awav from each other. 
While the Padres were play­ing the Chicago Cubs, owner John Moores and general man­ager Kevin Towers met with Martin and his wife, Cathy, at their Scottsdale home for about 1 1/2 hours. 
"He's very emotional, very embarrassed," Towers said late Tuesday afternoon. "The last thing he wanted to do was be here (fourl weeks and be a dis­traction to this baltclub before we start our season." 
Towers and Moores left 
Martin with a copy of the police 
report "so he knows what's 
been said from the other side. 
"It's been kind of a shock, but 
I think we do owe it to Al and 
his family to wait 
and hear what 
as possible, but was probably going to go away for the night. 
Towers said Martin has known Haggerty-Martin for 4-5 years, and that Cathy Martin is aware or her. 
"This is something that I think they've had some prob­lems (with) in the past," Towers said. "He kind of got into a situ­ation where he really didn't know how to get himself out of it." 
In Scottsdale Justice Court, Martin was barefoot and wore the same ripped white shirt, speckled with blood. that he had on when he and Haggerty­Martin wern arrested. 
Haggerty-Martin was charged with assault-domestic violem;e, and Martin was charged with assault-physical injury and threatening or intimidating, all misdemeanors. 
Police will investigate 
Haggerty-Martin's allegation 
that Martin is married to two 
women. 
Scottsdale 
police Sgt.

his side has to "It's been kind ofa say, Towers Doug Dirren
shock, but I think we do
said. "Before we said. 
owe it to Al and his A judge
come down on Al Martin, I want to family to wait and hear entered make sure that innocent
what his side 

we have all the pleas for 
has to say.,, both, and a
facts in place before we disci­pretrial con­pline him." ference was
Kevin Towers 

Martin released scheduled
general manager

a statement for April 12, 
through his agent. Jeff Moorad, categorically denying the charges against him. 
"Last night I had an argu­ment with a woman, Shawn Haggerty, whom I have known for several years. This argu­ment escalated and eventually led to police intervention," Martin said. "I take these charges extremely seriously and will continue to cooperate fully with the authorities inves­tigating this incident." 
Towers has known Martin since his days as a scout with the Pirates in the early 1990s. 
"This would be the last guy that I think this would ever happen to," Towers said. "He's always been a model citizen and a guy who represents him­self well." 
Towers said Martin wanted to 
address his teammates as soon 
The Northwestern University College Preparation Program is looking for 
Counselors 

to work this summer. 
We're hiling "Big Sibs" to help guide high school students from around the nation through a summer of learning and fun at Northwestern. 
For an application call: 
1 800 FINDS NU. 

Qualified candidates must have completed their sophomore year of college by the start of the program (June 12, 2000) and should have: 
... a desire to work with high school students ... a consistent record of academic achievement ... strong oral and written communication skills 
excellent interpersonal skills (both In 
group and one-on-one situations) 
.. time-management skills 
. . . leadership skills 

... problem-solving skills 
. . . a wide range of extracurricular 
interests 

NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
the same dav 

the Padres are to play the Arizona Diamond-backs in San Oiego. 
The argument at a Scottsdale home started when Haggerty­Martin accused Martin <lf still being married to someone else. Oirren said. Haggerty-Martin began hitting Martin and he punched hrr in the jaw at least once, Dirren said. 
She called 911. and Martin left before police arrived. Martin later called the house, and police asked him to return. Two guns were confiscated. police said -one that a nanny had hidden in a dresser drawer when the couple started fight­ing and one that was in the glove box of Martin's vehicle. 
Haggerty-Martin had a swollen face and he had scratches across the bridge of his nose and behind his left ear. according to the police report. 
Haggerty-Martin told police 
she had had a couple of glasses 
of wine and took codeine and 
zanax, an anti-anxiety drug, for 
a headache. 
The Padres acquired Martin 
from the Pirates on Feb. 23 in a 
trade for utilityman John 
Vander Wal and two minor lea­
guers. Martin had wanted out 
of Pittsburgh and was eager to 
play for a West Coast learn. 
Towers said at the time of the 
trade that Martin was a 
"tremendous clubhouse pres­
ence" and a team leader. 
Haggerty-Martin told police 
she did not know that Martin 
was married to another woman 
when she and the ballplayer 
were wed in Las Vegas on Dec. 
11, 1998. 

Haggerty-Martin said that at 
some point she realized that 
Martin was still married, but he 
kept telling her that they were 
getting a divorce. 
Martin told police that he is 
not married to Haggerty-Martin 
but that she has been his girl­
friend for about six years. 
Martin told police that he 
attended a ceremony in Las 
Vegas a couple of years ago but 
didn't believe it was real. 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 22, 2000 


NBA 

Starks denied chance 
to join playoffs 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO 
John Starks wanted to leave the Chicago Bulls so badly that he offored to give up bis salary for a rhancf' to join a team headed to the playoffs. 
It didn't quite work out that 
way. 
After arbitrator Hoger Kaplan ruled Tuesday on his unique 

"He made il clear of this franchise,
request. Starks 

and John certainly
gol out of Chicago to me early ifhe 
is not."
and will !{et to u·as going to lose 

Starks wasn't
hr,p his pay­

money, he was immAdiatelv rnach­
r.hcck. but he's 

able for comment.
not going to the going to stay 

llis agent, Leigh
playoITs. 
home." 

Stf'inberg. did not·
Kaplan said 

return phone calls.
Starks r.ould for-

Kaplan's ruling,
feit the remainder Jerry Krause 

based on a provi­
of his salary and Bulls general manager 
leave undf'r a mutual agreement with tlrn Bulls. but he denied u reqmlst for Starks' release to be retroactiw lo the March 1 play­off roster deadline. 
Shortly aftPr thr. ruling, the Bulb waived Starks anyhow and general manager .f Prry Krause said they would pay the veteran guard the remainder of his rnntract. about $700,000. 
A sourre who spoke on the rondition of anonymity said Starks d1wided if he wasn't going to t!1P playoffs, he wanted his monry. The Bulls just want­ed to Pnd the rP!ationship. 
"Hr had tlw option. We askrd him if he would agree to be waived without us paying him and he said. 'No,"' Krause said. "lie madP. it dear to me early if he was going to losr, money, he was going to stay here.~ 

But the Bulls didn't want him around. 
"I know John still has sonrn basketball letl in him," Krause said. "Our young players have to be on the court. They are the future 
sion in the new col­
lective bargaining 
agreement that deals with mutual termination of playPr contracts. ronld have an effect nexl season. 
Players and lnams will be able lo mutually agrnr. to amend r.ontracts by reducing or eliminating guaranter.d pay­ments after Jan. 10. players' union spokesman Dan Wasserman said. 
"The league will no longer be able to use thP Jan 10 date to force teams to make guaran­teed paymPnts in order to limit player movr.ment," Wasserman said. 
NIT 

Lantpley comes out on top in NIT 
• California finished with a 60-49 win over Georgetown 
Associated Press 

BEHKELEY, Calif 
Sean Lampley seems to save his biggr.st games for the NIT. 
Lampley. the MVP of' last year's tournament. scored J!:i of his 21 points in the second half as dr.!'ending champion California (18-14) defeated Georgetown 60-49 Tuesday night in the NIT's scr.ond round. 
Georgetown 119-15) shot just 28 perr.ent and committed 16 turnovers. and rnwer ser.med to play under control against the Golden Bears. !\nthony Perry had 12 points and Lee Scruggs had 11 to lead the lloyas, who had a triple-overtime victory ovf'r Virginia in thf' first round. 
Lampley. whose 20 points led Cal to a 70-(,(1 victory over Long Beach Slate in tlrn tour­nament's firsl round. struggled at times this season despite leading the Boars in scoring and rebounding. I !is inconsis­tfml play ,mrnnd him a spot on the bench at thP start of Cal's first game this srrnson against ard1rival Stanford. 
The Bears. seeking to become the NIT's first repeal champion since St. John's in 1943-44, will l'acr. Wak11 Forr.st in the third round. The Demon Dnar.ons {19-14) won 72-65 over New Mexico on Tuesday night. 
Buben Boumtjn Boumtje, the lloyas' leading rebounder and No. 2 sr.ornr this sAason. returned after missing the Virginia game with a sprainPd left ankh~ but was held to thrne points. 
Georgetown's Kevin Braswell. who had a career­high 40 po.ints against Virginia, went 1-for-12 l'rom the field and also scored three points against Cal. 
Cal led 28-26 at halftime, and both teams continund to strug­gle offonsivP!y in thr, first l'cw minutes or the second half'. Georgntown scored onlv two points in the opening 7:50 of' the half, and Cal's first basket or the half came with 5:0'J gonn. Th<1 Bears led 32-28 with six minutes gone in tlw snc.ond half. 
Wednesday, March 22, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Please Recycle The Observer. 


,, 
.e 
COFFEE & BAKERY 
Proudly Serve 
• 
CORNER BAKERY 
From Chicago 


Mon-Fri 7am-10pm/ Sat. 10am-10pm (Special Hours Before & After Theatre Performances) 
213 North Main Street, Downtown South Bend (Behind Morris Performing Arts Center) 
233-Ca/;e 

8-ball 
continued from page 28 
Irish need to maximize their bench production. Their reserves only scored five points in Mondav's win over Xavier, all from reserve point guard Martin Ingelsby. 
"We've been in situations before where we were coming oIT of a big game and a big win and we've won," sophomore forward David Graves. who led Notre Dame with 24 points Monday, said. "It's been a long season for us, and we've had a lot of ups and downs. We can't have anv more misfortunes. We need to ·come out and play with our "A" game the rest of the year." 
The Cougars will be smarting from the sting of losing home court advantage to the Irish. BYU had nearly 17,000 fans attend in their second-round game, but the Irish snared the home berth with only 9,000 fans in the crowd. The once silent Irish crowd has grown increasingl.y supportive this season, helping them win the home bid with their excite­ment. 
"We did a good job during the year, and were a strong bubble team if you will," Doherty said. "I think that may have helped get us the home games, but I think the Joyce Center fans have been great. The NIT likes to have big crowds. so I think we've earned the right, although BYU has had great crowds, too, so I'm sure they could complain and say that they deserved a home game. I think that maybe Coach Cleveland would. use that to motivate his team, that thev feel slighted that they didn't get a home game." 
Senior point guard Jimmy Dillon feels a little added moti­vation to play his best, since a loss means the end of his sea­son and his Notre Dame career. 
"It's more motivation and incentive for me to leave il all out there," Dillon said. "Bec;aus!l if the outcome doesn't Pend up a win, it ·will be my last game." 
Regardless of who wins tonight, the Irish have done better than most people expect­ed this yeilr. Even Dillon con­cedes that few would have pre­dicted in October that the Irish would be playing this late in March. Forecasts that may have seemed like pipe dreams five or six months ago are not good enough now. 
"We're not finished vet." Dillon said. "Coach has already talked about how if we lose now, people could say we've had a great year. And we have had a great year, but there's no reason we can't win a couple more big games and I think only one or two teams get to finish the year with a win. It'd be a real accomplishment of' ours to be able to hang a ban­ner." 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Murphy named to All-America first team 
Special to The Observer 
Sophomore forward Trov \1urphy was named to the Associated Press All-America first learn on March 13. Mu,rphy becomes the first Notre Dame player to earn AP first team honors since Adrian Dantley in 1976. 
Murphy was joined on the rive-man team by Cincinnati center Kenyon Martin, Iowa State forward Marcus Fizer, Indiana guard A.J. Guyton and Texas center Chris Mihm. 
Murphy has also been named a second-team All­American this year by the National Association of 
Basketball Coaches and a first-team All-American by Tbe Basketball News. Murphy was named the 1999-2000 Beg EastConference player-of-the­yoar and was a unanimous first-team all-Big East pick. 
Murphy leads the Irish in scoring at 22.8 points pu game (ninth in the country) and 10.8 rebounds (sixth in the country). lie was the first player to lead the Big East in scoring and rebounding during the conference season and currently leads the Big East in overall games in that category. 
He currently has 1,248 career points -the 22nd­highest in school history. 
FULL TUITION SCHOLARSHIP 

Through the NAVY ROTC PROGRAM Scholarships are currently available for sophomore students in one of the following majors: Engineering, Mathematics, Computer Science, Physics, Chemistry To be eligible, as student must have a cumulative GPA of 3.00 or greater. Contact Lieutenant David Rowland of the ROTC unit at 631-6061 or by e-mail at Rowland.9@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 22, 2000 
SOFTBALL WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish win big over break in California 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN Sports 'Writer 
The Irish softball team had a busy spring break. as they wreaked havoc through California and boosted their rncord to 18­
6. tallying St>Vf!n wins. and losses to two of the nation's top three teams during the week. 
Several Irish softballers took home individual hon­ors as well. Michelle Moshe! and Andrea Loman wen> named Big East pitch­er of Lhe wAek and rookie of the Wf'ek. rrspectivcly 
Junior MclaniP Alkire and f'rf'shman ,\ndria Bledsoe sPt a prer.Pdent for thPm. earning Big East player or the week and rookie of the week honors. respectively on '.Vlarch 13. 
Notre Danw kicked off its sucressfu! spring break with two wins over San Diego State. PitdPr Jennifer Sharron held the Aztecs to just four hits in game one as she earned her seventh win of the sea­son and gave Notre Dame its fifth straight shutout. 3­0. 
Alkire led the Irish in game two action with a grand slam whilr sopho­more Jarrah Myers added a two-run homerun to power Notre Dame to an 11-3 win. 
Notre Danw continued its winning streak with a 4-0 victory over Loyola 
Marvmount Alkire led the lr.ish ,\'ith her fourth homerun this season. knocking in two runs. 
The Irish then traveled to Fullerton. Calif. to compete in the 2000 Kia Classic at Cal State Fullerton. 
Notre Dame started the tournamrnt with a 1-0 win over CSU Northridge. Sharron, who built her record to 8-1. allowed only four hits in her fifth shutout this year. Danielle Klayman singled in the second to 
knock in Loman for the win. 
It took third-ranked Arizona State to end Notre name's 11-game winning streak as the Sun Devils took the 2-1 win Sophomore Jennifer Kriech knocked in ~otrc Dame's only run with a triple. Arizona State tied the game in the third before scoring again in the sixth for Lhr, win. 
Loman !Pd Notre Dame in their 4-2 win over the Texas Longhorns br.roming only the fifth player in Irish historv to hit Lwo homeruns in om; game. Moshe! struck out 10 to cam h,•r fifth win of the vear. 
Krie.rh kir:ked off a 4-2 win over No. Hi Louisiana­Lafav ette with her first home'run of thr season. Liz Elmira grabbed an HBI double and Andria Bledsoe also hit an RBI doubk before scoring herself lo give thP Irish a 4-1 !Pad. 
Louisiana-Lafayr.tte scored again in the sixth and iiltemptcd Lo score a, third time, but !'ailed as l\1yers got the tag-out al the plate. 
Notre Dame improved to 4-1 in tournament artion in the quarterfinals of the Kia Classic with a 4-2 win over sixth-ranked Oklahoma. MvPrs led Notrf' Dame as sh·e slugged a grand slam in the first inning to give the Irish a 4-0 lead. Oklahoma answered in the fourth with two runs. but it was too lit­tle and too late. 
No. 2 Arizona sent the Irish home with a 6-3 loss in the semifinal of the Kia Classic. Sharron and Klavman both recorded theii· first career homcruns. but it was not enough to overcome Arizona's two three-run blasts for the win. 
Notre Dame will play two games against Purdue Thursday in their home opener. 

..,.. 
French Mass 

When: March 23, 2000 9:00pm Where: Lyons Hall Chapel Celebrant: Rev. Michael Driscoll Mass will be said en francais! 
*Sponsored by Le Cercle Francais* 

Belles look forward to 2000 season 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
Sports Writer 
After eight undefeatr.d spring break matches in llilton llead, S.C.: lhe Saint Mary's trnnis tPam is ready to dominate this season. 
First-vear coach DP.e Stevenson did riot.know what to expect last week. 
"I knew we had a pretty decent team and I knew that playing two Division I teams and a Division II team would be tough matches,'' Stevnnson said. 
Not onlv did the team bPat both the Division I and Division II schools, it also won the other llvc matches it comp,ited in. 
C:o-captains Katy Vales and Becky Krnmer were Vliry encour­aged with last week's resulls. 
"I felt our team 
pu!lPd out a lot of big wins last week," Kromer said. "VVn provcd lo ourselves and to others Lhat we arc going to bA a tough team to beat." 
Vales was v11ry imprrssPd with thP performance of some or thr, younger play­ers. 
"We have a lot of' depth ½ith our [nine] freshmen," Vales said. "The freshmen really stepped up." 
Stevenson, who did not want to cut any pliiycrs, has a team composed or ninr. freshman. four sopho­mores, one junior. and three seniors. Already, 30 incoming freshm1rn havn expressnd interest in joining the team next yoar. 
"We proved to ourselves and to others that we are going to be a tough team to beat." 
Becky Kremer co-captain 

Vales thinks the selection of Stevenson, who has never coached tPnnis before. is a good one. Despite not coaching, he has playr.d tennis all his lifo. though. including a stint on Notre Dame's tennis team. 
"I Stnvenson I has done a lot to add to th11 program here," Va.lcs said. "All four Y(!ars I havo playnd here. l'v(1 had a new coach. I can 
tell [Stevenson! will be hem a while." 
Team membr)rs say thPy are looking forward to reaching tlw goals it set for the season. 
"One or my goals is just to enjoy my final yPar playing tennis at Saint Mary's," Kremer said. "I also want Lo brat the teams that we lost to last year. especially the conf'Arcnce matches against I lope and Albion." 
"WP. want to win our confer­ence," Stevenson said. "Also, WP would want to qualify for the NCA region tournament -they only take eighL teams out of the Midwest. Our biggest goal, though, is to have fun." 
The Bcllcs' rrnxt matchns arn at home on Saturday against Adrian Collegr. and Aquinas ColJpgri. 

One Day Table Tennis Tournament March 25, 2000 Sign up at the RecSports office Deadline for registration is March 24 at 12pm -R~~ For more information, please call the RecSports office at 1-6100  


MEET THE AUTHORS 
Thursday, March 23 
4:00 pm 

Join us as Arnold S, Kohen, author of From the Place ofthe Dead signs copies of his notable book. Kohen's book is che saga of Bishop Carlos Belo, recipient of the 1996 Nobel Prize for Peace for his herculean efforts to end the conflict in Ease Timar -one ofthe worse human rights tragedies of the contemporary era. Arnold S. Kohen will also be speaking at the Lecture Theatre Center for Social Concerns at 
7:30 pm, 


Thursday, March 30 
7:00 pm 

Father Richard John Neuhaus will discuss and sign his new book entitled Death on A Friday Afternoon in which he provides a compelling account of Christ's seven last words from che Cross, including a masterful explana­tion ofwhy Christians call the day on which Jesus dies "Good Friday." 

RI'.' 11 A R,I) j O 11;,,; NI. f:ll .\ l:!,. 

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone, 631-6316 • www.ndbook1lore,com 
Wednesday, March 22, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NIT BASKETBALL NBA 
Wolfpack edges Sun Devils, 60-5 7 
Associated Press 
HALEIGH. N.C. 

Kenny Inge scored 19 points, including the go-ahead follow dunk with 57.5 seconds left, as North Carolina State beat Arizona State 60-57 Tuesday night to advancfl to the third round of thP NIT. 
The Wolfpack (19-12l. which lost in ll1t' second round the prnvious thrP.e yirnrs, had to owrcomP a 32-point effort from Eddi<' lloust! in a rematrh of N.C:. Stat" 's 79-(J8 victory hr,re on .Ian. 29. 
Tlw b-l'oot-1 snnior guard had only two of' his points ovnr the f'inal 12 minutes as Wolfpack rnarh I lerb Sendek employed a box-and-onn dnff'nse. House missPd lh<' front t~nd of' a 1-and­l opportunity with 1 :18 left that rnuld haw given Arizona State a thn'P-point l!\ad. then missed a last-sr,rnnd shot al'ter break­ing open in tlw r.orn<'r. 
lngP made his l"ollow shot off DamiPn Wilkins' miss and. alter a missl'd shot and a walking rail against Arizona State in a 30-second span. Wilkins dosed it out with two free throws with 
7.4 seconds left. 
The Sun Devils {19-13) were held to their second-lowest point total of the season. 
N.C. State trailed 41-33 with 
14:15 left as House scored 24 of his team's 26 points during one span. But a 19-6 run highlight­ed by two 3-pointers by Tim Wells gave the Wolfpack a live­point lead with 5 1/2 minutes lef't. 
The score was tied twicn down the stretrh before Inge's winning shot. 
House scored 17 of Arizona State's final 19 points of the first half and assisted on the other basket. Over the last 3:50, he sank two 3-pointers. hit a baseline jumper. a shot in the lane and a three-point play. 
!louse's scoring outburst cam<' after the Sun Devils went scoreless for almost six minutes as thP Wolf'park built a seven­point lead. 
Arizona State rlosf'd the gap with a 13-4 run to grab a 27-20 lead before settling for a three-point advantage at the break as 


N.C. State had 10 turnovers. 
House took 20 of Arizona State's 31 first-half shots and accounted for 21 of the team's 29 points in the opening 20 minutes as the Wolfpack alter­nated five defenders on the quick guard. 
Mississsippi 70, 
Southwest Missouri 48 
Marcus Hicks scored 16 points and Rahim Lockhart muscled his way to 13 as Mississippi pushed Southwest Missouri State right out of the National Invitation Tournament with a 70-48 second-round vic­tory Tuesday night. 
The 6-foot-6 Hicks and 6-8 Lockhart didn't have any height advantage on the Bears. but they proved to be too strong in the paint and on the glass for Southwest Missouri to handle. 
Lockhart led Ole Miss (19-13) with 13 rebounds. 11 in the first half'. and Hicks had seven. as the Hebets' physical play at both ends proved too murh for Southwest Missouri. 
The Bears ( 23-11 l had cut the Ole Miss lead to 49-39 with 
12:25 left. 
But the Rebels scored 10 straight points, the final six on '.{-pointers by Emmanuel Wade and Jason Harrison, to lead 59­39 with 7 :46 left. 
The Rebels. who held North Carolina Charlotte to just 27 percent shooting in a first­round NIT victory, held the Bears to 39 percent from the floor. 
William Fontleroy led the Bears with 12 points. 
Allen Phillips. Southwest Missouri's leading scorer. had just seven points. all coming at the beginning of the second half. 
A..A. M:eeting 

LaFortune Student Center Room 312 


Friday: Noon -12:45 P.M. 
Closed -M:eeting 
Contact: 1-7970 for details 
~


.........,· 
-,,,., . 
\,-.•,.;. ).I\" 
·.,,. ,.._., 

.-~.f::.:~;:~~~~~.;.¾:·~:k,·-~-: ·-· -~t/i:~~~ 
Gill leads Nets •
Ill 

win over Raptors 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 

Kendall Gill scored 24 points and held Vince Carter dunk­free as the New ,IPrsey Nets beat the Toronto Raptors 100­93 on Tuesday night. 
Carter, guarded by Gill for most of the game and fre­quently double-teamed, had 23 points on 5-for-18 shooting as the Rapt.ors lost for only the second time in 13 games. 
Johnny Newman scored seven straight points on two jumpers and a three-point play to give the Nets an 84-75 lead early in the fourth quar­ter. 
The Raptors dosed within four on Tracy McGrady's dunk off a missed free throw with just under six minutes rema111111g, but Stephon Marbury made a driving layup and a three-point play to give the Nets a 91-82 lead. 
Toronto's Doug Christie fol­lowed with a 3-pointer to close within six. but Gill fol­lowed with a jumper to make it 93-85. Keith Van Horn ·s dri­ving layup made it 95-87 with 2:40 rema111111g, and Marbury's driving layup with 
1:29 to go made it 97-89. 
Marbury had 18 points and seven assists. Newman fin­ished with 14 points for the Nets. who shot 51 percent from the field to move within two games of Orlando for the eighth and final playoff spot in the East. 
Hawks 82, Heat 77 
Jim Jackson scored on two drives in the final 1:10 and the Atlanta llawks snapped a four-game losing streak with a victory over Miami on Tuesday night. the Heat's sec­ond loss in as many nights. · After trailing throughout the final quarter, Miami tied the game at 75 on Don Majerle's 3-pointer with 1 :28 remain­ing. But Jackson picked up a loose ball and drove into the lane to put the Hawks ahead to stay. 
Alonzo Mourning missed in close for Miami, giving Jackson a chance to put the Hawks in control. lie found another seam in the Heat's defense. banking in a shot for a 79-75 lead with 33.5 sec­onds to go. 
Jackson added two free throws with 6.3 seconds lert to clinch the victory. Ile finished with 15 points, as did team­mate Alan Henderson. 
Miami was noticeably ragged after losing 110-89 to the Los Angeles Lakcrs the previous night at home, snap­ping a fivfl-garne winning streak. This dP.feat was espe­cially crucial since the Heat began the night 3 1-2 games behind Indiana for best record in the Eastern Conference. 
The Hawks. who had lost 11 of their previous 13 games. won for the first time since waiving top scorer Isaiah Bider. 
Timberwolves 111, Cavaliers 
107 
Kevin Garnett scored 29 points and Terrell Brandon added 24 points as the Minnesota Timberwolves beat the Cleveland Cavaliers in overtime Tuesday night. 
Brandon also tied his career-high with 16 assists as the Wolves spoiled the return of Cavs' first-year coach Handy Wittman. who served as an assistant in Minnesota from 1994-99, where he suf­fered through 230 losses. 
The Wolves hadn't beatl'n the Cavs at home since March 17, 1995. 
Jor Smith's baseline jumper gave Minnesota a 107-105 lead with 44 seconds left in overtime, and Cleveland's Andre Miller missed a short jumper with 10 seconds left. 
Garnett's two free throws at 
8.6 seronds made it 109-105. but Bob Sura's rebound bas­ket with two seconds left made it a two-point game again. Brandon was fouled with nine-tenths of a second left and sank both shot'i. 
Lamond Murray's 16 points led the Cavs. who also got 15 each from Shawn Kemp and Wesley Person. 
NEED AJOB FOR NEXT YEAR? 
Student Activities is now hiring for the 2000-2001 academic year. Positions available: Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew DeBartolo Event Manager Information Desk LaFortune Building Managers Office Assistants ND Cake Service ND Express Sound Technicians Stepan Center Managers 24 Hour Lounge Monitors 
Applications available at 315 LaFortune or on-line at ,,.,.n,vu.nd.edu/ ~sao/forms. 
Deadline for applications is Monday. March 27. 

·•''""•'
;,;,.,. 
....... ' 



page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 22, 2000 
BASEBALL 
Irish pitchers prepare to take turns against Titans 

Pitcher Matt Buchmeier has helped lead the team to its best start {12-3) since 1963. The Irish host the Detroit Titans today. 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sporrs Writer 
Coming off of a sur.r.cssful 7-1 showing over spring vacation, the Irish baseball team plays its s<~cond honrn game of' the SPason 

to d a y  
versus  
tho  Tit­ Notre Dame  
ans or Det-roit.  vs. Detriot  
An as-yet  . Where: Eck Stadium  
undeter- Wh. en:  4 05:  p.m. 
min-ed  
variely ol'  
pitchers  will  rotate  on  the  

mound for the Irish against a dub that was 14-33 last season. 

"We don't want to pilr.h any­body an extended period of time," said head coach Paul MainiPrL "W<~ want our pitrhPrs to be fresh for this weekend (against Big East opponrrnt Villanova(." 
The Irish, who hold a 12-'.-3 record, are off to their best start sinr.e 1963, when they also opened the season with the samo record. At the Kennel Club Classic in ,Jacksonvillfl, Fla., Notre Damo beat then-rankPd University of Illinois twice, pro­polling the Irish to a No. 24 national ranking by Collegiate Baseball. 
During the Jacksonville trip, freshman Brian Stavisky stepped up to lead the Irish ollenso. The rookie led the team in batting averago, hits, and home runs during the final five games of' the tournament. Stavisky pro­duced at least one hit in each game of' the tournament, while moving around the batting order between the No. 2, No. 4, and 
No. 5 spots in the linnup. 
"I feel reallv comfortable at the plate now:" he said. "I fe11 l rnally comfortable up there. Tlw coac!H1s have brcn helping me be more relaxed and sne the ball and hit it. Hverything WPnl rnally well in tlw last !'PW ganws. 
Stavisky's play holppc] ignitn an olfnnsc that had brt'll some­what stagnant, at !Past in com­parison to the Wam 's successful pitching. The team's eanwcl run avrrago now stands at an unb<'­lievable 2.3'J. 
Leading tlw pitching staff in Florida was acn right-hander Aaron IIoilman. Tho junior co­captain dominatod Big T<'n oppo,rnnts Illinois and Iowa in· his two starts. Against Iowa, llliilman struck out 11 Hawk<1yps while allowing only two runs in tlw compl!'tP-gamc victory. 
But it was frr1shman pitch<'r 
J.P Gagnr who turnPd in prr­haps the most important perf'or­mancr of' the tournamrnt for tlrn Irish. The right-hander helped solidify thn questionabln Irish middh~-rdiel' c.orps as Im tossed eight shutout innings and picked up two wins. 
Senior right-hander Scott Cavoy started against Central Michigan and pitched f'ive shutout innings before being forced out when Im was hit by a line drive. Cavey had to miss his second start in Florida, but will start this werkend at Villanova. 
Today's game begins at 4:05 
p.m. at Eck Stadium and r,an br 
heard  on  WJVA 1580 AM  as  
well  as  on  tho  Internet  at  
www.und.com.  

ATTENTION JUNIORS 
TOP FOUR REASONS TO GET YOUR SENIOR YEARBOOK. PORTRAIT TAKEN THIS SPRING: 
4)  SAVE BUCKS.  Pay 50% less on the traditional sitting  
fee than your would in the fall.  
3)  BE COUNTED.  If you will be abroad first semester  
senior year, this will be your only chance to get your portrait  
into next year's yearbook.  
2)  NO UGLIES.  Get them taken now, and if you don't  
like the way they turn out, you can take them again in the  
fall.  
1)  LOOK DARI(.  Sport that tremendous Spring break  
tan in your portrait.  

Sign-Up Dates for Portraits:  Portrait Sitting Times:  
Monday March 20th thru  Monday March 27th thru  
Wednesday March 29th  Friday April 7th  
IO a.m. to 5 p.m.  9 a.m. to 5 p.m.  
Sign-Up at Room I08  Pictures will be taken at  
LaFortune Student Center  Room I08 Lafortune  

For further information or questions, call the Yearbook Office at 631-7524 
Wednesday, March 22, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 

Swilll 

continued from page 28 
behind Stanford's Cathnrinn Fox. 1\'ixon's finish wai; the highest in the history of Notre Da.me swimming and diving at the NCAA Cbamp-ionships. 
"We've always thought through the course of her career that she's one of tbe best kids who've swam in college." Weathers said. 
"And we expect for her to "It's important for kids to finished 15th in the improve. know that they can be three-meter and 
She finished her weekend one-meter diving
successful at this level.,, 
with a 10th place finish in competitions to the 100-mctcr butterfly earn honorable ( 1 01 06) and ninth place in Bailey Weathers All-Amrlriran sta­the 100-meter freestyle tus.
head coach 

(55.34). She earned All-America honorable mrntion status for each swim. 
Senior Shannon Suddarth closed her carePr in winning style, capturing her eighth All-America honorable mention in four years. Suddarth became a four time All-America honorable mention holder after an 11th place finish in the 200 meter breastroke. Suddarth also finished 11th in the 100-meter breastroke earlier in the weekend, finishing in 1:09.98. Suddarth is the first Notre Dame swim­mer to hold All-America rankings in each of her four years. 
The 400-medley relay team of senior 
THE TASTY BACON 
CHEDDAR  WHOPPER~  
T H I N K  O F  I T  A S  A  W H O PP ER®  T H A T ' S  
DRESSED  UP  WITH  SOMEPLACE  TO  GO,  


THE WHOPPER'' WITH A NEW TWIST FOR A LIMITED TIME. 
If you're already a fan of "America's Favorite Burger,"* why not try it a whole new way? With crispy bacon and melted cheddar cheese, it's sure to put a smile on your face. So head to a BURGER KING0 restaurant soon and make sure to bring your appetite. 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 


Elizabeth Barger, Suddarth. Ni.xon and sophomore Kelly Hecking also swam to the best finish of any Notre Dame relay team, placing ninth overall. Winning the consolation final heat, the squad 
improved two spots from their 11th place finish a year ago, finishing in 
4:07.00. The swim earned all four swim­mers honorable mention All-America honors. 
Junior Alison Newell also made her second career appearance at NCAA finals, placing 12th in 2:13.24. The swim was Newell's first return to NCAA finals since her freshman season in 1997. 
Sophomore diver Heather Mattingly 
The 200 medley 
relay team of 

Hocking, Suddarth, Barger and .Nixon also earned honorable mention All-America honors for the sec­ond year in a row, placing 14th in 1:55.15. 
While ono of the goals for the team was to qualify more women for the championship than last season, the team managed to move up in the team rank­ings with fewer swimmers and divers. 
"We were able to move up to where we wanted to be, and we did that with fower swimmers," Weathers sctid. "Of course, when you get there, you always want to finish a little bit better. But we accomplished everything we wanted to." 
Overall, the finish marked a shift for the team they have been striving for all season. 
"It's important for the kids to know that they can be successful at this level," Weathe~s said. "No one can argue that they weren't well prepared for this." 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
We're your source for the best theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Spring Clearance Sale! 
20-80% OFF ALL BOOKS MARCH 22-24. 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 • cmeehan@com-ctr.com 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), d0vvntown So. Bend 
Now open until 6:00 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday! 
Open 10-5 Mon/Wed/Fri, and 11-6 Tues/Thurs 
Back from break? Need asummer iob? 
look no tunher. 
The nation's largest publisher of college and university campus telephone directories is offering paid Full-time summer sales and marketing internships. Tremendous practical business experience and resume booster. Positions begin in May with a week-long, expense paid program in Chapel Hill, NC Interns market official directories locally, selling advertising space to area businesses in specific college markets, including The University oF Notre Dorne. Earnings average $3000 For the 10-week program. All majors welcomeI 

Call 1-800-743-5556 ext.143 or visit our website at www.universitvdirectories.com for more information and 10 aoolv. 
.~University Directories 
88 VdCom Center• Chapel H,11, NC 27514 • (800) 743-5556 • Fax: (919) 968-8513 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 22, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Riley named Academic All-American 
Got 


beyon tn . 
with a faculty mentor and has 
Special to The Observer 

twicn bnnn nnnwd to tlrn BIG East ;\cadnmic /\II-Star tnam. Just two days af't1•r becom­The 2000 Big East dden­
sports?

ing th r, f'i rs t Not r (\ Dam r, sivR-player-of thP-yea.r and a wonrnn's baskPtball playPr to 
f'irst-tnam all-Big East hon­11arn l'irst-tnam i\ssociatPd ornn in back-to-back suasons, Prnss i\11-J\mPrira honors, 
Hilny is leading llrn tnam in Huth Hilny bncanrn thn pro­sr.oring and rnbounding for 
Call 
gram's f'irst-Pvnr J'irst-tflam 

tho sorond straight ynar avnr­CTH J\cadnmir J\11-/\nwrican. 
aging 16.2 and 7.:~ rnbounds. Tim Ci-:i centPr. who boasts a :1.(i:i ovnrall grudn point 
1-4543.
av<'rag11, was t.lw only junior 
SI' lnctl'd to Lim tPam. Bilny is 
thn fourth Irish wonwn·s bas­
kntball playnr to Parn acadn­
rnic all-amnrica honors and 
tlw first sincn l 1JiCL Mary 
B!'lh Srhunth was the last 
playn to bn nanwcl an acad1•­
m ic a 11-a m <' r i r a 11 w hP 11 s lw 
was sr.lnctncl as a sccond-tnam 
r.l10icn in 1983. Shari Matvnv 
was a sr.cond-tnam honorne ii1 

Train like the boxers do with the 
1981. while Maggin Lally was 
tlrn program's first and only 

Knockout Workout!
two-tirnn acad11mic all-anrnri­
r:an as slw garnnrl'd ho11ors in 
both l'J8 l and 1<J80 

•Punching combinations 
.Joining Hilny on this ynar's .f'irst-tnarn wnrP Knra 
•Footwork drills
J\lnxandPr (Texas /\&Ml. Lisa 
Baswcdl !.lacksonvillc Statn), 

•Shadow boxing
Karalyn Church (Vnrmont) 
and .lnnnil'Pr Crow (Oklahoma 
State). Basw<1ll also was 

•Heavy bag drills 
na1111~d thn GTE Women's 
Basketball Academic All­

•Jump rope circuits 
American of' thn YPar. 
Hiley. a psyrhology major. 

•Lots of arms & abs 
has b<wn nanwd to llw llnan's 
l.ist all l'ivc scmstcrs at Notn, 
Dam0. She is a 1111•mbnr of th1~ 
J\cadnmic llonors Program 
whirh pairs studcnt-,tlhl0tns 
who exct\l in thP classroom 

For more info contact A?'e-e.-3/p-7.z+=­
RESIDENT ASSISTANTS AND HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED: 
Holv Cross College is looking for afew uood men and women to serve in our 
first t1tne• 


residence life program.
h
fort e 

Mature men and women are needed in acoed environment of over 200 freshmen and sophomore resident students.
After graduating from college, Josh Borus joined AmeriCorps to help the youngest members of his 

Live across the street from Notre Dame while being an RA or HD. 
community-and he discovered a whole new world. As a teacher's aide in a 

The successful RA candidate will receive room and board 
low-income neighborhood near his home in Boston 

while the HD candidate will receive room/board and salary. 
Josh worked with students well beyond the regular.school hours and provided support they often didn't get at home. "If you see a problem. you have a responsibility to do something about it," Josh 
says. "AmeriCorps gave me that chance." 
Spring 2000 Arts and Letters Job Fair Friday, March 24, 2000 9:30am -4:00pm 
For more info, contact Courtney Nicholas at: 

(312) 353-0574 or E-mail: cnicholas@cns.gov 
AmeriCorps:Are you up to the challenge? 
1-800-942-2677 
www.americorps.org 

Holy Cross College is atwo-year, liberal arts college with atransfer-intent curriculum and apopulation of approximately 500 students. 
If interested, please contact: 
Mr. Chris Ruhe Director of Residence Life Holy Cross College HOLY P.O. Box 308 
CROSS
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
* 

(219) 239-8409 COLLEGE 
cruhe@hcc-nd.edu 

Right for you. Right from the start. 
@ 2000 Holy Cross College 

'••••••••••••••••••••••••._.,••••••••·••••·••••;••••••1na ¦ ••• ¦ •• ¦ S-¦ 1•1 •• ¦ ••••I••• ¦¦¦¦'¦•••••••••••••••••••••·••• ........, ,ffft ·••••flfffffff 
Wednesday, March 22, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Author of 17-, 57 Really bad 
Dilemma 37-and coffee features, 61-Across 58 soda figuratively 34 Borodin's 61 See 17-Across 
6 Take measures "Prince 64 "_ as I can 9 Starbucks 36 1995 Stallone see ... " offering title role 65 Antipollution org. 14 Up's partner 37 See 17-Across 66 lnjun Joe 15 London facility creator
39 Ephesus' land 

16 Pierre's 67 "_ If (1983
42 Take down 

girlfriends Tom Cruise film) 
44 Category of 17-,

17 With 37-and 68 Wasn't active 
37-and

61-Across, a 69 Brief brawl 
61-Across

1936 title 46 Reunion grp.
20 Monogram of DOWN '52 and '56 48 Woman in 1 "Very funny!" 21 Crumb 
Fitzgerald's 
2 Reed section 
''Tender Is the 

22 Prohibited member
Night''

23 Rap sheet items 3 SpreadsheetSO _Stanley
25 Amenhotep IV's components
Gardner

god 4 Weirdo 26 Florida city, 5 An acoustic
51 Mont Blanc, e.g. 

informally 53 After-hours job, guitarist may 29 Rockies' div. maybe use one 31 Script ending 55 Be confident of 6 European 
carrier 
7 Bamboozle

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8 Peanut brittle 
base Puzzle by Charles E. Gersch 9 Retreat 

TACOS DORM UMPS 
27 Galley need 1 O Amorphous 

A L E P H A D E E T I L E 
28 Easy questions, 

RODEO MOAN OLIN 

critter 
so to speak11 Singer born 
30 Cry of reliefAnna Mae 33 Shangri-LaBullock 35 Aaher's partner 
12 Hay spreader 38 Salami or
13 Dead Sea bologna
Scrolls scribe 18 Dry, in a way 40 Taken 

19 Martini & 41 Copy 23 Supermarket 43 Popular toy chain since 1964 LOUT OREO MOIRE 
24 "Benson" 45 Relax 

A P S E C A R T A R L E N 
actress 46 Beauty parlor WEED KNEE LEAST 26 Three before E treatment 
47 ''The Tempest'' 58 Petty quarrel king 
59 Touched down 49 Film festival site 
60 Late-night name 52 Zhou 
62 Busy bee in 54 "Golden Boy" Apr. playwright 
63 Be light, in 56 Go sour poker 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON nns DAY: Karl Malden, William Shatner, Bob Costas, Matthew Modine, Roger Whittaker, May Britt, Lena Olin, Andrew Lloyd Webber 
Happy Birthday: Hit them with your best shot and you'll do just fine. You need to plan your actions and execute them with precision. Your strategy will be good, but you must follow through. Life will be quite simple as long as you follow the guidelines set out for you. Let go of people and things that are no longer of any use to you. Your numbers: 6, 11, 20, 31, 36, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Property investments will be fruitful; however, don't be pushed into joint financial ventures with someone who is not completely trustworthy. 
000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): New romantic encounters will llllfold through travel or friends. An older member of your household may not agree with your choices. 
000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A female will be a key factor in your professional position today. Details will make the difference in your presentation. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You 
will learn easily today if you attend 
lectures, but don't put money down 
unless you're completely sold on the 
program offered. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone 
special may not be rational today. 
Don't take harsh words to heart; just 
counteract his or her mood by being 
attentive and affectionate. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Co­
beam.1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST 

workers may try to blame you for an unfinished job. Be careful how you handle the situation; you don't want to appear guilty when you're not. 
000 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Make career changes today. You should discuss your goals with superiors and put in a bid for a higher position or a company you can call your own. A franchise may be appropriate. 
000 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your stubbornness will be your downfall today. Try not to back yourself into a corner. Self-awareness will be the key. Don'tbe too quick to make deci­
sions or point the finger at someone else. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't give friends secret infor­mation unless you're prepared to have it spread around. Be careful; someone close to you is jealous and unpredictable. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Don't bite off too much financially. Unexpected bills will be sure to sur­face. Losses are evident if you don't watch your belongings closely. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Concentrate on professional gains. You can dazzle colleagues and employers with your insight. You will do extremely well if you go for interviews today. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Sem­
inars and business meetings will run 
smoothly if you listen to others care­
fully before you make a statement. 
Don't push your opinions on others. 
Make suggestions but nothing more. 
000 

Birthday Baby. You have great strength and stamina. You face all the chal­lenges you meet head-on. You have no trouble taking action when necessary. You are not one to sit back and watch life pass you by. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 02000 Univeisal Press Syndkale 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

It's officially Spring. Time for baseball, but not just baseball... 
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL 


PORTS 
O
THE 

page 28 BSERVER 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Off to a great start 

Notre Dame baseball, matching its best start since 1963 with a 12-3 record, faces the Detroit Titans today. 
page 24 


Wednesday, March 22, 2000 

Irish enjoy hoillecourt advantage in NIT quarterfinals 
"Tlrny'v<' got a good low post player who can step out and shoot it. They'vp got a two guard who can put the ball in tho basket. Thny'vr got guys that am good shooters and play hard." 

<i-J'oot-3 junior guard TnrPII Lyday and (1-f'oot-(J junior f'or­ward MPkrli Wrsl<'v <·ombinP· f'or :Ei points pPr g11~w. p11sti11g a full half of tlw Cougars· points. BPtwP<'ll tlw t\\'o, tlwy also bring down 10 rPbounds per game. 
Thr Cougars prPS!'Ol a dif'l'rr­Pn t type of' !'hallPngP to thP I r is h t h a n did t IH' X a v iP r MuskntPPrs. While Xavil'r·~ main attark was a l'ull-court prnss. BYU uses mainly a half­court man defensP. 
Both tPams are coming into tl1P quartPrfinals al'tPr honw games Monday night ganws. Notre Dame bPat XaviPr 7(i-(i4, while BYV knockPd of'I' Southf)rn fllinois 82-'.i7. 
The Cougars may b<~ a littlP f'atigl!fid duP to the quick turn­around bctwePn rounds. ThPir gamr was playPd at 11 p.m. EST Monday. leaving them with littlP time to makP the rross­country trek and rr-1cover in time for tonight's match. 
The lack of downtime rould also affrct Notrn Damr, howPv­er. sinr,e All-American Murphy is playing on a sprained ank!P. and forward Harold Swanagan is struggling with a twist!\d knee. With two starters playing at less than 100 percent. th1~ 
see B-BALL/page 21 


By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associ:ue Spons Ediror 
Notre Dame's tnl'n 's basket­ball team will take on thP Brigham Young Cougars tonight, hoping to rxtPnd thrir season oncn again and (~arn a trip to New York's Madison Squarn c;ardnn f'or thr s<'mil'i­nals of thP National 
See Also 
Invitational 
"Murphy named
Tournament (NIT). to All-America But to do 
first team"
that. the Irish will have to page21 tbrow a ['ow wrenchrs into the Cougar's game plan. 
CoaC'hed bv Steve Clew.land. the 22-10 · Cougars are a Mountain West Confrrrnrr team that is used to f'ar,ing a man-to-man drf'ense. Siner thr Irish play primarily zone defrnse, they will be looking to trip up tlrn Cougars with the dil'­frront style. 
"I think we're ar,tive in our zone and we rebound well," Notre Damr, forward Troy Murphy said. "A lot of' tnams knew our zone was roming, and they didn't handle it too wr,11. So if they haven't seen a lot of' zone, it should go well for us." 
Other than the differing styles of defense. Notre Dame head coach Matt Doherty sees a BYU team that resembles Notre Dame. 
"Maybe in some ways they're similar to us," Doherty said. 
SWIMMING AND DIVING 

Notre Dame captures more titles over spring break 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sporrs Writer 
There weren't too many honors the women's swimming and diving team hadn't earned during the 1999-2000 season. but they man­aged to notch a few more over spring break. 
After earning their fourth consew­tivc Big East title, six women trav­eled to Indianapolis to secure their last honor of the season: an 18th place team finish at the NCAA Division I Swimming and Diving Championships Marrh 15-17. 
The Georgia Bulldogs won the meet for the second year in a row. followed by runner-up Arizona. The Irish improved 10 spots from their 1999 finish. 
"Our finish at NCAAs was the most critical thing this team has acr,om­plished," said head coach Bailey Weathers. "We entered the meet wanting to be in the top 20 and have all the girls score in the meet, and we did that. It's a big step for this team." 

The honors didn't stop just at the team finish. Several swimmers and one diver earned All-America rank­ings for performances throughout the weekend. 
Junior sprinter Carrie Nixon placed fourth in the 50-meter freestyle, after winning the prelimi­nary heat in the morning. Nixon, who won the event and reset her own record at the Big East Championships, had placed six­teenth in Lhe event last year. She also earned an All-America ranking for her finish. 
Nixon logged in at 25.9 seconds in the finals, coming off a 24.99 mark in prelims. She finished .12 seconds 
see SWIM/page 25 

• 
Baseball Fencing NCAA Mideast regionals 
at Ohio Seate vs. Detroit • at NCAA Championships vs. Texas Tech
Thursday, 4 p.m. 

SPORTS t
Today, 4:05 p.m. Thursday-Sunday Saturday, TBA 
ATA 
Sofrball

NIT quarterfinals vs. Hofstra
at North Carolina 
vs. Purdue (DH) 

lfi' A1
vs. BYU ._} Saturday, I p.m. Sunday, I p.m. 
~"'-:-.c:,.t
Thursday, 4 p.m. 

GLANCE •
Today, 9 p.m. 







