
It's a cloudy day at The Beach 
/,eonardo DiCaprio's neu: film has been deemed a flop, and critics claim !he movie is a zero compared to Titanic, 
Scene . page 14 

THE 
VOLXXXIII NO. 85 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
Ni:-\VS Wrin:r 
Ev1!n in a p!a1:<' whcire many stu­cl(•nts feel at home. it is still easy to l'ind studPnts \•vho ar<' struggling with an Pating disurd1'r. 
··over tl1C• last IO years, LhP av1;rnge numbr>r of studPnts SP!\11 pPr yPar [at Silint '.'vlary'sl whu can bP diagnosed with an PHLing disorder is ~(1.8," said Kristina PPndley. assista11f. director-of' Counseling and Can·er Development at Saint Marv's. · 
Anon;xia ~ervosa, bulimia ncrvosa and bing<'-cating disorders all can rPsull in s11rious consrqulrnr.es il' not lrP.ated. Physical effects include dtihydration, gastrointt1stinal prob­lPms. ost,,oporosis or heart attacks. I!owt'Vt'r, many sul'frring students on rampus do 1rnt sod; lwlp. 
"'Thi>rP is an Pnormous anwunt of sham!'," said ValPriP Staplt'S who works with The liating DisordPr llr•covery Crntt'r in Mishawaka. "'llt] rnmpliralcs rnming forward." 
In their program. when a person arrives , th<' centPr n'! comm en d s eithr'r individual or group therapy. "I also have almost 99 percent of [those in tlwrapyl see a di1)titian." said Staples. 
Th1,n; is also a support group. open to unyonn who is struggling with an Paling disord1~r. 
"'Two-thirds Df my practicn is col­
leg<' studPnts." Staplc>s said. "l cer­
tainly think that's just a small portion 
lot' thost: who need help)." 
Many slud,•nls seem unwilling to seek help. Staples noted that when slw gives l11ctures on college campus­es ahoul <'a!ing disorders, students rnrPly ask questions during thn lec­lurt'. AflPrwards. however, they are 


STUDENT SENATE 
Cleaning up the rubble 
Vice president Al Gore visited the victims of the tornado that struck Georgia earlier this week. 
WorldNation . page 5 
Thursday 
FEBRUARY 17, 
2000 


Eating disorders plague college students 
more willing to confront her with their concerns and worries. There is a wide spectrum of !Psser­known eating disorders that still may be prob­l!"matic. 
"People with eating disorders have issues with control," said a Saint Mary's lleallh Scnvice nurse, Cindy Horton-Cavanaugh. "It is probably very threat­ening for them to come and get help ... lit forces thr,m to relinquish] some of the control." 
According to Horton­Cavanaugh, if students at Saint Mary's come seeking help at llealth Services, thev would be supported by· a group ol' physicians and medical assistants. as well as rnfcrrnd to the counsel­ing center. 
"There are also some really excellent pro­grams within the com­
Eating disorders and you... 
Average number of students seen per year at SMC's Counseling and Career Development Center who can be diagnosed with an eating disorder:
........,.........
.....................
, 
............. ¦

~-··---··-··2s s 
~~-~fttt-.*¥1.s 
Patients of The Eating Disorder Recovery Center in Mishawaka that are college students : 
........,.Milt~ 
66% 
Percentage of students on college campuses naitonwide that have some sort of eating 
disorder: 
...•• 
munity," Horton-Cavanaugh said. 
Jane Navari. a professional special­ist in the department of prc-profes­s i ona l studies at Notre Dame, believes thal eating disorders are very common on campus. 
"l think it's a lot more r.ommon a problem than we know about. It can go undiagnosed for a long time," said Navari. 
Navari teaches an Introduction to Common Medical Illnesses to fresh­men. Eating disorders is a very important issue to his students, and his classes discuss it many times dur­
5-10% 
JOSE CUELLAR/The Observer 
ing the semester. 
One of the reasons students do not often take the first step in realizing the problem is because of the social environment on campus. 
"Campuses almost normalize it. Students see a lot of other people obsessing about their weight and watching what they eat. We're social­ized to be obsessed with weight and food," said Staples. 
"There is also a feeling of low self worth when asking for help," she continued. "It is extremely difficult 
see DISORDERS/page 4 
Senators criticize recent Observer cartoon 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
Last night's Student Senate meeting called attention to the cartoon that ran in the Tuesday edition of The Observer. 
The cartoon displayed a faculty mem­ber pointing out to business majors that the r.ommenr,ement speaker Kofi Annan was in f'ar,t tho U,N. Secretary-General and not a rap artist 
"l want to speak to you all about this because the issue must be addressed," said !Jillon senator Brendan Dowdall. "The cartoon message was the same as saying that Madeline Albright is Secretary of State and not really a housewife. That would be sexism and this is racism. It may have been intend­ed as a simple insult to business majors, but it used racial remarks as humor. I just think we must address the underly­ing messages involved." 
Michael Fierro, assistant chief of staff, agreed with Dowdall. 
see SENATE/page 4 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Colleagues remember McCormick 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Editor 
Theology professor Father Richard McCormick died Saturday in Michigan and will be buried today in Toledo. Ohio, but he lives on in the minds of his friends and col­
leagues here at Notre Dame. 
Father Richard McBrien, a theology professor and close friend of McCormick's, remembered the professor as a genial 

man who reached McCormick out to those around him. 
"He had an extraordinary capacity to establish warm, friendly relationships with people," McBrien said. 
McCormick. who taught at Notre Dame for 14 years, was also a renowned scholar, generally considered one of the world's experts in moral theology. He specialized in medical ethics. 
University president emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh had high praise. 
"He was the best moral theologian in the world, bar none," Hesburgh said. "He was also a very balanced man." 
Hesburgh noted that McCormick was neither a liberal nor a conservative in most of his teachings, but was certainly willing to stand up for his beliefs. 
"He went down the middle," Hesburgh said. "But he had courage, and when he disagreed with something, he wasn't afraid to say so." 
His views on sexual ethics were some­times the subject of controversy, and stood at odds with conservative Catholic leaders. 
McCormick was an ardent supporter of Father Charles Curran, a moral the­ologian whose teachings on sexual ethics issues led to a Vatican censure in 1986. 
But, McBrien said, McCormick was more than simply an intellectual. 
"He was a famous theologian, but he was also a down to earth guy," he said. The two worked together since 1986, when McBrien, then chair of the theolo­gy department, hired McCormick at Notre Dame. They soon became close friends. 
"f can't say enough good things about him," McBricn said. "He was a great man, both as a Jesuit priest and a the­ologian and as a human being. and I will miss him very much as a close friend." 
His touch was not limited to fellow priests and theologians, however. 
Sociology professor Maureen Hallinan remembered McCormick as a friend, and came to know him when they both arr.ived at Notre Dame at around the same time. 
"He was a gracious gentleman who seemed comfortable in his humanity, who faced his disability after his stroke with enormous courage and a great sense of humor and who always put oth­
see THEOLOGY/page 6 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Thanks, Coach D 
I would likt' to thank Coa<:h Matt Doherty and the men':; lrbh basketball team l'or mcLking lhe JACC an exciting and !'eared place to play colle~c hoops onct> again. More importantly to Coach Doherty. who has rejuvenaLed Lhe basketball fol­lowing on this campus almost single handedly. 
Brett Huelat 
As a native of Kansas. I have always been a huge Kansas Jayhawks fan. and 
ad design
have been lucky enough to 
manager
see some great games at KU's Allen Field House ... in my opinion one of the loud­est and r.raziest places in all or college sports. At Allen Field House Lhere are times when you can't hear yourself yelling, the opposing team is con­stantly heckled and free throws by the opposition are disrupted in a crnative and entertaining manner. 
So you can imagine my dismay when I watched my first Notre Dame baske.ball game in 1996. I quickly found that the following for foot.­ball wasn't very interested in cheering for the basketball team as well. The JACC was so quiel. that you r.11uld hear someone fart from the oppo­site side of Liu• arena. The greatest enLe1-tain­ment was watching Marcus Young shool free throws between his lrgs! 13ut as a collPge hoops die hard. I went Lo all lhe home games and dreamed ofseeing the JACC packed full of people someday. In the two years following, my hopes faded. The fan following wasn't there. the heck­ling was mostly toward our players and three or four people waving their hands behind the bas­ket just isn't very disruptive. 
Enter Matt Doherty. As a Kansas fan who had I. previously met Doherty at summer basketball camps. my hopes for Notre Dame basketballl immediately rose. Although I was hopeful for a packed JACC. I would have never thought that
l 
my dream of seeing it as it was last Saturday could have ever occurred. The crowd was amaz­
f 
I ing, the excitement was back, and the JACC was 
f 
as loud as Allen Field House without a doubt. I saw hands waving on free throws. I heard the heckles at El-Amin. Voskuhl and Calhoun (OK, so they were a bit rude, but we have a lot of frustra­tion to release) and the loud cheering, when Notre Dame defended certainly added a boost in the final minutes as we held the lead. 
The following for Notre Dame basketball can be directly attributed lo Coach Doherty's dedica­tion to the Notre Dame community and getting the student body involved. His emotion and superb coaching in big games have given us something to cheer about. As a senior who suf­fered through four medior.re football seasons. the Cunner.ticut game almost made up for that in two short hours. Sure it isn't a national champi­onship. but what I witnessed on Saturday was a level of excitement for Notre Dame basketball. that I, and I'm sure many others. nearly thought impossible for this year. The JACC was packed and :\iotre Dame will be a great basketball school once again (especially considering that Doherty's recruiting is as good as his coaching). 
In a post game interview, Doherty said that he was embarrassed about being lifted up on the students' shoulders after the game and that the team deserved it more than he did. I disagree. While the team played great. I believe that Doherty's great coaching and emotion has driven this team to the level it's playing at right now. He deserved to be up there on our shoulders. 
So keep coming out. and as Coach D salutes the student body after another win next week against Providence, salute him back to say thanks !'or the remarkable turnaround of our basketball program. He made it happen faster than many ofus could have imagined. 
Thanks Coach D. 
i 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Jo~h Bourgcios Man Nania K.irc Nageng,m Graphics Courmey Boyle 
Jose Cuellar Spor~s Production Molly McVov 
Karhlten O'Brien 

Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Lila Haughev Angel~ Campos 
The OL,uvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Mund.,, 1hrougl1 FriJa)' cxccp, during ex,un .md v.ac.ui-un perio<ls. The OU.iervl"c is .;1 memlier of rhc.: As..,;oritH('(i Prt"SS. All reproduction rlv.hts ;tre·rt·S("rVt'd. 
171e Observer . INSIDE 


THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday 
. 
Program: Natural Family Planning hosts a program on Ovulation and Sypto-Thermal MP-thods at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre. 

. 
Event: Junior Parents Weekend 



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
WASHINGTON 
Seeking to make terrorism more expensive for governments. Ohio University visiting professor and for­mer hostage Terry Anderson vividly recalled his seven years in captivity in Lebanon and pressed for compcn­salion from Iran Tuesday. 
"Governmf'nts use terrorism because il is cheap and easy." Anderson testified in Federal District Court of the District of Columbia yes­terday. "[f governments like Iran have to pay. these rulings will make it more expensive." 
Under a 1996 law. Anderson has filed suit against the Islamic Hepublic of' Iran asking for $100 million in damages. A judge in Anderson's law­suit issued a default ruling yesterday in Anderson's favor. Now the judge has to decide on damages. 
Three other American hostages 
Napster ban incites protest at IU 
BLOOMINGTON. Ind. 
The filtering out of Napster.com has caused students to take action. Flyers have been posted in residence halls urging Indiana University students to help "Save Napster," and two web sites petitioning this decision have been coller.ting names. 
Freshman llvan Bruner and Mike Stratton, a Bloomington resident, are opposed tn Napster.com being banned. Thus. they created a petition web site. Currently 98 people have submitted their names to the petition. 
"Everyone was angry about [NapsterJ. and I was like, 'Someone has to start a petition to get this changed."' Stratton said. "No one else was going to do it, so I decid­ed I had to be the one." 
Chad Paulson has also created a Web site called Students Against University Censorship, featuring a peti­tion for all students at universities that have denied access to Napster.mm. He said he was motivated to act by the lack of communication by the administration. 
"They claimed they didn't make a hasty decision. but they didn't consult any students and that made me upset," Paulson said. "I just want communication between students and staff." 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather" forecast for d,1ytime conditions amJ high temperawrcs  
r••rn• r-•···',.,, L ' ; Thursday c2 32 27 Friday 36 25e 36Saturday 22~ 39 26Sunday ~­...,,~/.. 44 33Mon,;tay . ( "··~•\,,Y. ' ' ' ~_} .rj"' '-v~, ~ ·,:· .,_:>  

45.;;;~_~qQ.Q (t ~ u 
Showers T•storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associaled Pres:;. GraphicsNet 
Friday 
. 
Performance: "The Tempest" 7:30 p.m. llesburgh Center !'or lnternalional Studies Auditorium. TickP-ts $3 at the door. 

. 
Event: Junior Parents Weekend 


"Governments use terrorism because it is cheap and easy. Ifgovernments like Iran have to pay, these rulings will make it more expensilJe. " 
Terry Anderson funner hostage, visiting OU professor 
held with Anderson won a similar judgment in 1998. but they have yet to receive any compensation. Iran has refused to defend itself in any of the suits. It also has sent no lawyers to Anderson's court hearing. 
At the time of his capture. Anderson was chief Middle East r.or­respondent for The Associated Press. He was living in Beirut with his wife, 
UMich meeting leads to resolution 
ANN ARBOR. Mich. 
In a meeting that lasted nearly five and a half hours and packed more than 50 students -in addition to about 55 University of Michigan Student Assembly mem­bers -into MSA chambers Tuesday night. the assembly voted to pass a resolution in favor of delegating control of the Union tower to the University's Office Space Allocations Committee. 
Erika Dowdell. Minority Affairs Commission co-chair­woman, surprised MSA, her co-chairwoman Erin Gilbert and the rest of MAC by announcing her intention to pur­sue legal action against Mir.higamua for not following through on the promise it made in 1989 to MAC to rid the seventh lloor of' the Union of all Native Amerir.an artifacts. 
MSA President Bram Elias said that whether the suit needs full MSA or MAC approval is unclear. Miranda Massie, an attorney for Scheff and Washington in Detroit, said the firm will be filing a contract enforce­ment action later this week. 
"Our main point is to support the students who are making a stand against racism and elitism." Massie said, adding that she was r.ontacted by Dowdell on Monday. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathel"' forecast for noon,Thursday, Feb. 17. 
lines separate high temperawre zones for the day. 
801 
FRONTS: 
.,,......... .................. 
C 2000 AeicuWuther, tnc. 001.0 WARM STATIONARY 
@'"'"(b . . . t23 . Em 0 {~ M 
High Low si-.owen ~!" T-ttormi; Fturrie& Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Ancciaract P,ea~  
Atlanta  59  49  Houston  78  66  Philadelphia  38  25  
Baltimore  40  28  Los Angeles  59  52  Seattle  49  32  
Bostoo  29  18  Memphis  58  52  St. Louis  43  39  
Chicago  35  32  Milwaukee  27  25  Tampa  79  62  
Grand Rapids  27  22  New York  36  25  Wash DC  43  39  

Saturday 
. 
Performance: The Notre Dame Jazz Band concert for JPW at 2:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. The con­cert is free and open to the public. 

. 
Event: Junior ParenL'i Weekend 


Madeleine Bassil, who was six­months pregnant with their daugh:~ ter. Sinr,e 1998, Anderson has been a visiting professor at OU's E.W. Scripps School of' Journalism. 
Anderson's lawsuit claims that Iran funded and supported the terrorist organization that kidnapped him in 1985. His testimony for.used on his experience in Lebanon before, during and aftRr his kidnapping. He vividly recalled the March morning in 1985 when three members of the Hezbollah, a paramilitary organiza­tion, kidnapped him on a public street. Ile said he knew immediately that he was going to be captive for a long Lime. 
"One of my kidnappers told me not to worry, because my kidnapping was only political." he said. "I knew what that meant. I knew I was going to be gone for a while." · 
Thursday, February 17, 2000 
Sunday 
. Event: Junior Parents Weekend 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


Former hostage presses Iran for compensation 
Thursday, February 17, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Business school focuses on ethics 
By HENRI CA.PIN GALLY SANTOS 
As th,, business world "moves toward tP-rritories with no blue print.s," the application of ethics to the business world becomes more and more signif­icant, said Carolyn Woo, dean of tho Collcgn ot' Business. 
1krording to Woo, an 

Woo
education focusing on business studies prepares stu­dents well and increment.s their orportunilif!s l'or sucrf'ss. No1wthelnss, she disagrees with the clnim that a business school. particularly at the grad­ual<' level, should l'ocus solelv on inr.reasing the studr.nts' Parning potential. 
"Money and success arc not the ends in themsP.!ves. Thc\y should bP used for purposes such as human development or improving thP quality of life." said Woo. "'Education does not do iL-; job if it does not expand the capacity for idealism. If WP reduce the capacity Lo be ideal­ists, then we have gone in the wrong direction." 
Aiming lo provide it5 students with a wcll-roundRd education. the College of Business has become a hallmark in the study of ethics, one of the most 
important issues in today's 
bttsiness world accurding to a 
recent survev. 
"Eighly-th~ee percent of the pnoplc [surveyed] said that they had enrountercd an ethi­cal development issue [during] thP.ir earners." said Woo. 
One of the most important learning objectives of the Pthics curriculum is r.alled "ethir,al analysis." It focuses on analyzing different options when faced with a moral dilem­
ma. 
II owever, ethical dilemmas am not the only cause pro­pelling emphasis on the study of ethics. 
ft serves as a guide for people ,vho "want more l'rom thc.ir job than morniy and need to belong to somethin_!{ inherently good," said Woo. 
To be known as an ethics centor does not tarnish the rep­
utation of the school. Instead, 
· Notre Dame's business school is benefiting from this reputation. "Various ... recruiters value integrity and trustworthiness over any other characteristics," said Woo. Citing several renowned economists, Woo said that sim­ply assigning a monetary value to business practices is consid­ered insuflicient and should be complemented with social fac­tors. "We are ahead of our time by incorporating this new dimen­sion, [the study of ethics]," said Woo. To conclude her speech, Woo evaluated the progress made in achieving this goal in the College of Business. Regarding the issue of whether the College of Rusiness was causing an impact in the academic world. she said, "We have not. caused much of a ripple." In order for the College of Business to achieve its goals, divuso challenges must be faced. The school does seem to be headed in the right direc­tion, Woo said, "In solving this challenges I would give myself a grade somewhere between B­plus and a D-plus." 
CLARIFICATION 
Some information in The Observer's Peb. 15 article "Science Center Offers New Options" should be clarified: 
Led bv thP drpartrnPnt of dPctrical engineering, the Center for Nano Science and Technology is cornpris-ed ol' a multidisr.iplinary task force or University researchers. The center will focus on nano­electronks. the study of molec-ule-sized elements -in general terms "the pursuit of making electronic and other devicr.s smaller. faster and better." Because of Notre Dame's leadership in this area, the center will also serve as a national think tank where technologists from industry can explore nanocon­CPpl~ f'or a variPty of PnginePring applications, such as computing with quantum dots, producing hig~­spPnd nano-based circuits or designing microelectromechanical systems (MEMS). Long-term economic f'orecasl'i c!stimatn that the future growth of nanotechnology will parallel that of today's semiconductor industry. In fact, according to the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, nanotechnolo­gy could lead to another industrial revolution. Having a facility like the Center on campus will help train stud1mts for immediate partkipation in this market of the future. 
For more information. contact center director Gerald Iafrate at 631-8673, associate director Woll'gang l'orod at 631-6376 or visiting www.nd.edu/-ndnano 

ND law student runs for state rep. seat 
By ERIN lARUFFA 
News Writer 
Though still a third-year law student at Notre Dame. James Ehrhard is already making a bid to help make laws in Indiana. 
Ehrhard, a Republican. is running for the State Representative seal for District Six, which includes parts of South Bend, Mishawaka and Notre Dame's cam­
"My oppo~ent is known for ... owning Bridget McGuire's and receiving 11 citations over a 13-year period," said Ehrhard. adding that he would likfl to bring dignity to the office. 
Ehrhard's platform stresses property tax and educational reform in addition to stricter penalties for drunk drivers. 
Ehrhard was formerly a law clerk at the South Bend City Attorney's office and a local law firm, and is now 
pus. 'Tue been very involved clerking at 
another local
in the South Bend
The fact firm. That that he has community for three work has lived in the given him
years. I think I could do a 
area for less experience
goodjob representing 
than three dealing with y e a r s this area. " local issues prompted a from a legal local radio standpoint,

James Ehrard
station to he said,
law student, state congressional
refer to adding that Ehrhard as a candidate having 
"carpetbag­g e r " Nevertheless, he said he is prepared to represent the area in the state legislature. 
''I've been very involved in the South Bend community for three years," he said. "I think I could do a good job repre­senting this area." 
Ehrhard's Democratic oppo­nent is Patrick Bauer, who has been elected to 15 consec­utive terms as state represen­tative since 1970. 
"[Bauer] was elected at my age ... and he had less experi­ence than I do," Ehrhard said. "Times have changed since the 1970s." 
Ehrhard also questioned Bauer's "flouting of the liquor laws of this state through his ownership of Bridget McGuire's," a local bar. From 1977 to 1991, Bridget McGuire's (now a coffee house called Molly McGuire's) received $4,000 in fines and 16 days of license suspension for different instances of serv­ing alcohol to minors. In 1998, local police and state excise officers discovered 165 under­age customers inside the bar. 
taught at a 
high school for a semester will also help him as a legislator. 
Despite the fact that District Six is known as a strong Democratic community, victo­ry for a Republican is possi­ble, said Ehrhard, who has the backing of the Republican Party in Saint Joseph's County. 
"I need to turn 2,000 votes my way, and I win," he said, relying on statistics from past elections. 
Because there are so many elections in November ­including the presidential one -Ehrhard will rely on door­to-door campaigning to bring his message to voters. 
"The only way [to win] is to literally shake every voter's hand," he said. "Hopefully we can pull off one of the bigger upsets [in state elections]." 
Though new to South Bend, Ehrhard has spent about half of his life in the Midwest. including four years at the University of Chicago. He plans to take the bar exam in July and practice law even if he is elected. 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 17, 2000 
avenues for students to seek this year there were 10 tickets other vote I must be prepared to help." in the first election, and [going make the final decision."

Disorders Senate 
However. studcQts may feel back to the first election] would Overall, the concerns were 
continued from page l 
for [students]. It may be the first time Lhev have not been abl<• to handle something." 
Many students ol'ten do not realize that thev have an eat­ing disorder in tlw beginning. 
"This IcollegR] agr\ group Iis not] really a group that seeks out medical attention unless they can't function." said Navari. "Most rrnople who have eating disorders, at least in the br.ginning, ran fun('tion pretty well" 
Eating disorders 1:an also stern from dietary 
more secure in a counseling center off-campus. "I think [the Mishawaka center\ pro­vides a sal'e environment for !students! to look at what they'rn doing," said Staples. "I believe il's really important for them to be able to recog­nize [their problem) as an eal­ing disorder. Hecovery can happ<"n and people can !Barn to live a lil'e not !conlrnllr,d] by this." 
The Eating Disorder lfocoverv Center also has had very po~itivc feedbar.k from students and clients. "Having the opportu­nity to talk to 
habits. "A "This {college] age group otl;er pRople 
question to is sometimes
[is nol} really a group
ask is do1's very healing," L h e that seeks out medical said Slaples. 
University attention unless they The center provide ade­works very
can't function."
quate health dosPly with plans''" the college usked Navari. Jane Navari counseling "There are a center. "H's a
professional specialist
lot of differ­ent options and meal plans. I think they provide a wide variety for students. However, this raisf's an important issue: ls the person eating a nutritious diet. am they taking care of them­selves? Or are they staying out until 3 in the morning and only getting three or four hours of sleep? People should start thinking about taking care of [themselves I." 
Navari feels Eating Disorder Awareness Week is very help­l'ul. "People can read about it and say, 'I might have this'. [Plus\. st.udents realize it's not a rare disease ... it gives 
great liaison 
and referral 
center," said Staples 
"There's an estimate Lhal 5 to 1O percent of students 011 college campuses have some sort of eating di::iorder, from mild to severe," says l\avari. "That's a lot. I think we know that the mason college stu­dents are at risk. They're very stressed; they have a new lifestyle; they may be depressed, and not doing as well as they would like in classes." 
"This age group has a lot of image situations," continued Navari. "Body image is very important to them." 
continued from page l 
"The cartoon run !Tuesday! used nu;e as a form of enter­tainmrmt," Fierro said. "I do not believe c1n apology is needed simply because I stand behind The Observer's right to inde­pondoncc, llowovor, the cartoon reminds minority students that thev are diffornnt and the racial tfwr;,s enhance stereotypes." 
Dowdall finalized thr. state­
ment asking for positive rosults 
to come from Lhe issue. 
"Many people will sec this in different ways, but I see it as racism. It evcu caused for a meeting between Iris Outlaw and Kevin Huie." Dowdall said. "I want to see this turned in Lo a posilive issue not something where there is ,lrguing back and forth. Ijust wantfld to make a statement voicing this as racism." 
Senate also passed seven res­olutions at last night's meeting. The main bylaw addressed the possibility of a lie in the student body president and vice presi­dent elections. 
Paul Sladek, St. Edward's sen­ator. brought the rnsolution to Lim floor a11d stressed that something be passed to avoid a problem similar to the one Saint Mary's faced in their elections this year. 
"The issue of a tie in the run­off election is not addressed in the ctinstitution. We thought of several options," Sladek said. "Another election did not seem feasible simply because it was too soon and there would not be enough money to continue cam­paigning. We also thought about going back to the results of the first election, but for example, leave out these votes. 
"In a nutshell, we modeled the resolution on the federal government's plan and decided 'Congress' should vote." 
Sladek said that the senate would convene and the Judicial Council prnsident would inform each senator on who won their particular dorm. After that, the senator would bf' required to vote for that ticket. If there was a Lie again, then the chairman would make tho 11nal der:ision. 
Several concerns were raised because the bylaw called for every senator to be in atten­dance and emergencios could pnwent this. Also. it is plausible that the chairman could be an underclassman and ultimately could r.ast tho vote, which would appoint himsell' or 
herself' as "Many people will see 
the University
president or 
this in different ways, but Advisory
vice presi­
Committee on
dent. I see it as racism . ., 
the Disabled.
"I think we 
"Thrre am
all nmlize this 
Brendan Dowdall 120 disabled
is not a per­
Dillon senator students on
fect docu­ment." said off-campus senator Pat Fov. "However. I think we shouid pass it tonight and fix it later. Because of what could happen tomorrow, we should have a plan of what to do." 
Senators also feared that the chairman may be hesitant to make such a large decision. However Michael Palumbo, stu­dent body vice president and current chairman, disagreed. 
"Of r,ourse. I would explain my reasoning, and I'd hope all my successors would do the same. However, this is the way the senate is run, and like any answered in friendly amend­ments and the bylaw was passed so should there be a tie in today's election, student gov­ernment would be prepared. 
In other senate news: 
. The senate approved the 1999-2000 Student Union Spending Review and also approved the nomination of Kathleen lleicher as the Student Union treasurnr for thr, 2000­20()1 school year. 
The senate passed an order requiring the Office of the Student Body President Staff to attend a Celebrating Diversity Workshop. Thoso who must attend include, but are not lim­ited to, the department heads. 
. Tho senate passed a resolu­
tion which requests a student berome a member .. of 
this campus 
and I feel this is a large pHrcentage," said Patrick O'Donnell, Carroll Hall senator. "In the past there was student representation and the Office of Disabilities director said it was a positive thing." 
The resolution passed and thus a student member must be an o!licial membPr of the com­mittee. 
. Other resolutions that passed included an election appeals bylaw, the removal of the constructional review board amendment, the budget approval bylaw and the senate oath of office bylaw. 
Student Government Invites Student Nominations for The 1999-2000 Irish Clover Awards and the Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award 
Each year Irish Clover Awards are presented to one undergraduate student and one administrator, faculty, rector, or staff member of the Notre Dame Community who have demonstrated outstanding service to the students at the University of Notre Dame. 
The Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award is awarded to a member of the Faculty who has stimulated academic creativity and personal development in and outside the classroom. 
Letters of Nomination may be submitted to the Student Government Office, 203 Lafortune by Wednesday, March 1st . If you have questions, Please call the office at 631-7668. 



AFP Photo 
U.S. Democratic presidential hopeful and Vice President Al Gore listens to Camilla, Ga., resident Lynwood Wimberly as he sits in front of his destroyed home on Wednesday. Gore toured the area hit by tornados on Monday. At least 19 people were killed and many more injured. Some are stm missing. 




Gore inspects CaII1illa after tornados 
Thursday, February 17, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Arizona executes murderer 
FLIIHFNCE. i\riz. 
A driflnr who ambushed and murdered a voluntee. r slrnril'l"s dPpuly in 1982 was execut­ed by injPction WPdncsday. Anthony l.f>e Chancv. 4:i. Hhol Cornnino County reserve D()puty John It Jamison morn than 30 limes . with a sPmiautomatic rifle. The clay of the killing, Chaney was bcing sought for burglar­iPs in N1\W t\foxin, and TPxas . .lamiHon. who was also a dcicto1· in FlaKstalT. had responded to a n•port that a !'l'llow deputy had stopped a stol1•11 trud, in tlw woods outsid<> Flagstaff and v.'rtsn't anSWl'ring radio calls. T}w other deputy was handruffocl to a tree when Jamison nrrivt>d Chan<'y opened fire as soon 
a:l .Jamison pulll'd up. Tht1 ollicer never hud a chance to draw l1is gun. 
L.A. police chief decries 
4 officers 
LOS ANGELES 
,\I IPasl !'our or 12 officers involved in a polin• t·orrnption inV(!Stigalion 1wv<'r should haV(' btic•n hirPd bPcausP tht>v had been arrPsted or had outstanding debts, Chief Bi•rnard C. Parks said Wrdnesday. Initially. the four wPre disqualifit>d but tlwy were later hired. in somP cases aftnr an appeal. the chief said. "Thev wen• misdemeanor arresl'i. alco­hol -d111111~slic viokrn·1•. things liki• that." or dPbts that sho\\'Pcl an inability to handle their finann's. l'u.rks said. "ThosP are the kinds of' things that an• rPd !lags for us as it relates to how an ofTicPr will pt'rf'orm in the f'uture," said tlw chief. who was ord1ered to make a publir pn~s11ntation by thP City Council on how he is handling th(' growing corruption scan­dal. 
Pinochet may suffer brain damage 
MADRID. Spain 
/\ British nwdical report on Augusto Pinoclwt says brain damage is (,roding the former Chilean dictator's memory, and has ldL him nwnLallv unfit to stand trial, two Spanish 111'wsp,tpPrs said Wednesday. The newspapers, which dailrn)d to have obtained ropies of tlw rPport. said it suggested the 84­year-old ge1wral might not be able to remem­bt>r manv d!'lails of his· 17-vciar rule. !t also suggt'sted lw could havP u:ouble answering qtwstions and following proceedings if tried on diarges ol' human rights abuse. as sought by a Spanish judge. The ABC and El Mundo daili,~s said rncords from a January exam by British doctors show i>inochet suffers a condi­tion known as prripheral diabetic 1rnuropathy, as well as progressive cerebrovascular dam­age. 
lfffii?ttlJW./11:1
Dow AMF:x: 
902.25 
]ONES +7.93 
-156.68 'fasch1q: 4427.65 +6.88 

NYSE 604.97 
-5.91 
S&P 500: ( :omposill' Vulunie:
1387.67
10561.41 1,019,616,fl00
t !-1.38 
VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY ucgKB % C:MANiS •ctw,m, PJUCI 
MICROSOFT <'OllP llSF'l" -0 .-1}425 -0.9425 97 .62 DEl.oL COMPUTER OELli 1-0~33 +0.1250 38 .oo J.11111:R !CA 0Nl.IN£ AOL -• .17 -2.2500 51. 75 CISCO STSTENS c:sc::o -o .65 -0.8300 127 .17 INTEL CO!lli' IN7C -ol.30 -t.8100 107 .19 CY'l'OCIN C'P CYTO +21. oe . 3-0000 H.00 ABlfRCROMBI.£ " r ANF -21.79 -f..25-00 l!i .25 CO»c:ORD Ei'S CEFT -ll.66 -2.050 18.U neH SOLUTIONS TSCC •2i0. iS +5.57'5 7.U MCI WORLUOON M<:OM +Q .. ::ZO -t'0~1215 47.H 







orld 

CoMPILEn FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Associated Press 
CAMILLA, Ga. 
Al Gore took a taxpay­er-funded helicopter detour to inspect Georgia tornado damage· on Wednesday, blurring lines between his vice presi­denliaI duties and the presidential race as he looked for ways to stretch his r.ampaign bankroll. 
Separately, Democratic rival Bill Bradley suggest­ed the administration was using cold-weather aid in the Northeast to boost Gore in the presidential race. 
With candidates' rr.maining money becom-
ISRAEL 
Holy Land establishes Lebanon panel 
ing more of a factor, the vice president's politically benefidaI government duties are ex peeted to increase. On Friday, his Black History Month appeal to black voters takes the form of an offi­cial address to the Africa Summit in Washington. 
He's not shv about pointing out the two roles. 
"When I leave here, I'm going to be leaving as vice president -but while I'm here I want to ask for your help in my cam­paign," Gore told 150 supporters Wednesday outside Air Force Two during a pit stop i-n Macon. 
Spokeswoman Laura 
Quinn said local officials. knowing Gore had planned a campai~n town-hall forum 1n Macon. had asked him instead to tour the torna­do disaster area and speak with affected fami­lies. "A very small frac­tion" of the cost of the day's activities was being shifted to the government, Quinn said. 
Gore has about $18 mil­lion -to Bradlev's $20 million -in cainpaign funds at his disposal. 
Following Bradley's lead on another subject Wednesday, the vice pres­ident belatedly con­demned President Clinton's nomination of 
actions are authorized automatically." Public SPcurity Minister Shlomo Ben-Ami told Israel televi­sion. 
The formation of the new team was a clear sign to Syria, the main power in Lebanon, that Israel would stand firm against the recent escalation of attarks on its troops in an lsracli­occu pied buffer zone in southern Lebanon. 
Attacks on Israeli soldiers rose after peace talks with Syria broke down. Barak, who has pledged to pull Israel's troops out of Lebanon by July. has been trying to attract the Syrians Bradley Smith. a Republican who opposes the overhaul of the cam­paign finance system, to the board of the Federal Election Commission. 
"The last thing we need is an FEC commissioner who publicly questions not only the constitution­ality of proposed reform but also the constitution­ality of current limita­tions," Gore said. 
Republicans had been insisting on the nomina­tion for months -it's tra­ditional that each party gets to choose half the commission and Clinton reluctantly made it official this week. 
back to the talks, but has shown reluctance to appear as if he is retn'\at­ing under fire. 
The attacks are the wor.k of Hezbollah, an Iranian-backed militant Islamist group that Israel says would not be able to function without Syria's go-ahead and encourage­ment. 
The Hezbollah attacks have killed seven Israeli troops in recent weeks. Hezbollah leader Sheik Hassan Nasrallah pledged Wednesday there would be more Israeli deaths. and threatened to fire rockets into Israel. 
Associated Prc:ss 
JERUSALEM 
Israel's security Cabinet handed three ministers the power on Wednesday to order rapid military responses to attacks on Israeli troups in Lebanon ­a sign that Israel plans to intensify counterattacks. 
The llexibility of a smaller committee would mean that attacks on power stations. bridges and other infra­structure targets in Lebanon could come within minutes of the death of a soldier. instead of hours or even days. 
The three-minister com­mittee, whose exL,;tence was r,onfirmed by other Cabinet ministers in interviews broadcast after the security Cabinet .met Wednesday, includes Prime Minister Ehud Barak, Foreign Minister David Levy and Transport Minister Yitzhak Mordechai. 
Some members of Barak's security Cabinet -until now. the body that decided how to respond to attacks -voted against forming the committee, saying they wondered if concentrating such power wai; wise. 
"We cannot get into a sit­uation in which military 

~---------------------­
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 17, 2000 



New program targets high school seniors 
Special to The Observer 
A new summer study pro­gram targeting academically gifted high school seniors will began this July. A three-week program. Summer Experience will allow participants to explore literature, mathemat­ics, life sciences or invest­ment/linance, and theology. 
While living in residence halls on Notre Dame's cam­pus, students will attend acad­emic courses and take part in fieldwork under the direction of Notre Dame faculty. At the end of the program, students will receive one college credit. 
"All of us who have been 
involved in the development of 
this program are excited to 
offer an opportunity for tal­
ented high school students to 
challenge themselves academ­
ically and personally here at 
Notre Dame," said Na.than 
Hatch, University provost. "We 
also look forward to providing 
them with an up-close look at 
Notre Dame and a personal 
introduction to the tremen­
dous resources and opportuni­
ties available at a major 
teaching and research institu­
tion such as ours." 
Beyond weekday classes and 
fieldwork, Summer 
Experience will include 
Theology 
continued from page l 
ers at ease and made them feel comfortable." she said. 
Before coming to Notre Dame, McCormick taught Christian ethics at Georgetown University from 1973 lo 1986. He was a professor of moral theology at the Jesuit School of Theology in Chicago f'rom 1957 to 1973. 
McCormick wrote more than 20 books, penned numerous 
),_ 
1talian/sic1Uan  ~  -~rattoria  
Dining  ~  "--,  .'--­ 
,,  /  '"L~  ~SS. Michigan St.  

Fresh prepared ~en, / ,r-8°uth Bend, IN 46601 Piua, Beverages r-~~· 219.233-1000 
Downtown South Bend'• Pinest Italian DinJng 
evening and weekend work­shops. recrnaticmal activities, lield trips and social and com­munity servicr-, opportunities. Living in residence halls will also expose students to the spiritual and social connec­tions that often form in a dorm community. 
This summer's faculty includes: Thomas Werge, English professor; A. Alexandruu 1-Iimonas, associ­ate professor of mathematics; Liviu Nicolaescu, assistant professor of mathematics; Kristen Lewis, T. Mark Olsen, Michelle Whaley, all profes­sional specialists in biological sciences; and Scott Malpass, vice president for finance, chief investment officer and concurrent assistant professor of finance and business eco­nomics. 
The cost of Summer Experience is $2,250, which includes tuition, housing, meals, extracurricular activi­ties and field trips. Initial enrollment is limited to 20 students per field of study. Applicants will be chosen based on a personal essay, recommendations from one teacher and one guidance counselor, an official high school transcript and stan­dardized test scores. 
articles for publications from Commonweal to Sports Illustrated and served as past president of the Catholic Theological Society of America. 
He was born in Toledo on Oct. 3, 1922, and entered the Society ol' Jesus after graduat­ing from high school. He was ordained a prir.st in 1953. 
He will be buried in Toledo, where McBrien and llesburgh will concelebrate his funeral Mass. 
Plans have not yet been finalized for a memorial ser­vice on campus. 

~-· _··-··-------=-==""-"'""'""'M>:>-N-kh=:;:,>;;»'~Sl,~=%z»h.>!l-$l,$lr.;,,».ill'.=~J1l'~=.<!'z~~h»»~¾¾:S°'®'~.:WJ1 
~ +AA4A+A.A4&:i+ ., ,~
! t~ , The American Cancer Society
.. g)i
I -, 1 presents our Annual I I~~~~---Daffodil Days I
I For only six dollars, you can purchase one bunch of ten daffodils, and for I I just three dollars more, you can purchase aslender glass vase that is just ·· I perfect for your bouquet! 
I I The flowers will be delivered to the donns on Thursday, March 23". I 
; AH proceeds from our Daffodil Days goes to the American Cancer Society jIfor use in cancer research, education, programs, and patient services here in ijISt. Joseph County. 
~ Bring the sign of Spring and the flower of hope to your dorm room. You can use the order form below to place an order with Jessica Brookshire in 204 RoHs Sports Center or call 1-5829 for more information.
I1 __________Ord!~d~e_!>!.~o~d~J!_hruary_2~!:_ ___ ~ ;a==·:n~, I 
!:Iwant to order _ bunches of Daffodils with _ vases. 
1. 
: Name:______ 
~ 
j :Address: ---Hall, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 1I1 I My contribution of$ to fight canceris enclosed. 
-

ii~ ,. ~ :
!j. ; 
I: : I· 
. 
="'=' : I DAFF091 ~ ' I
D·A~'t·S 1 j 
Thursday, fcbrnary 17, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Students call 'The Vagina Monologues' important, liberating 
By KAREN FINK 
News Writer  
Love tlrn  body and love it  
hard.  
The sold  out audience  on  

Wednesday for Eve Enslcr's play "The Vagina Monologues" was advised to follow that advice from Toni Morrison's novel Bnloved. 
Thev ranrn to hear, see and feel the sacredness of the fnmale body and learn that the "splitting or the mind college, it is important to be aware of women's issues," sophomore Vanessa Hogan said. "and coming to a show like this h~lps us become more aware 
Doth Lcattrnrman and Hogan were impressed and happy to see men attending the female­oriented play as well. 
Meredith Watt, a Notre Dame senior, and Ken O'Keefe, a rccont Notn1 DamB grnduate, boL!i read the book from which the show was based and thought it the 
and body is play was well
"/ think that at a
not healthy." performed. Some, how­women's college, it is "IL is 
ever. nimP important to be aware of important to 
to sec what gel over sex­
women's issues and
all thusn ual taboos," advi~rtist>­coming to a show like she said. 
m e n t s this helps us become O'Keefe iu·ound cam-said the wav 
more aware.
pus were the tex't about. explored typ­S a i n t Vanessa Hogan ically taboo Mary's topics was
sophomore
junior Alyson interesting. Leatherman Because only atlendnd the one person show bo1:uusn she was curi­performs in the show's ous. Broadway rendition, he was 
"There has been so much curious to see how the cast discussion on campus about would split the monologues. it." she said. "l know some The show began with com­people in the show and I want p a ring the vagina to the to support thnm. Plus, because Bermuda Triangle. calling this show is bning performed both mysteries. The narrator at 150 campuses this year, I mentioned that the term want to be a part of that and "vagina" sounds like a disease know what is going on." to most people and she lists 
Otlwrs wcrP interested in the various nicknames people the women's issues thal tile give the anatomical part, such play discussnd. as "pal, monkey box and 
"I think that at a women's pussy cat." 

Adding humor, the actress said, 'Tm worriBd about vagi­nas." 
The show addressed many topics in connection to the vagina, including hair, men­struation. orgasms and moan­ing. 
At one point, the mono­logues answered the question, "If a vagina could talk, what would it say?" Answers included "slow down, yum­yum and start again." 
Besides making light of the often-taboo topic, the show presented many serious and emotional segments, including one that concerned the rape of a Bosnian woman. 
Immediately following the show, discussions began among the audience as they exited the auditorium. 
"The show was empowering and liberating. It brought the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community together," Watt said, "especially the women." 
O'Keefe agreed, "It was powerful to see them speaking and giving voices to the text. The cast did a great job, and it leads" to discussion between the sexes, something the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community needs." 
Hogan thought the show was surprising, but not an embar­rassing surprise. She said, "It was definitely worth the five dollars. The Bosnian rape seg­ment was the most poignant." 
Saint Mary's sophomore Karen Hogan expected the presentation to be a risky, funny, off-edge and in-your­face show. 
"It lived up to my expecta­tions and the moaning seg­m_ent was my favorite," she said. 
"I was surprised and enthused that they brought the show to campus," fresh­man Kristen Mowry agreed. "It was serious, hysterical and had me laughing a lot. It defi­nitely surpassed my expecta­tions." 

is now accepting applications for the THE following positions on the 

2000-2001
BSE~ 
General Board 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe _Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of computer net­working. The Systems Manager maintains the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff.. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a accounting or finance major. The Controller is responsible for preparing the operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a Web site and is responsi­ble for updating and archiving the content of the site each day. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and -! working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with other editors to match graphics with the daily stories. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have computer skills and a strong background in journalism. The News Editor is responsible for design and content of daily news pages and overseeing a staff of writers and editors. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have computer skills and a strong background in sports journalism. The Sports Editor is responsible for design and content of daily sports pages and over­seeing a staff of writers and editors. The Sports Editor should have a thorough knowl­edge of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's athletics. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have computer skills and strong editorial ability. The Viewpoint Editor is responsible for design and should have solid editorial judgement. The Viewpoint Editor also must oversee a staff of editors and columnists. 
SCENE EDITOR Applicants should have computer skills and a desire to produce intriguing entertain­ment features and to manage a staff of writers and editors. The Scene Editor should have solid design capabilities to produce feature layouts. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Applicants should have solid news judgement and the ability to manage and develop a staff ofwriters and editors. Saint Mary's Editor is responsible for maintaining contacts on campus and overseeing Saint Mary's content in The Observer. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have a complete knowledge ofAdobe Photoshop and a strong back­ground in photo journalism. The Photo Editor is responsible for all photography that appears in The Observer and overseeing a staff of photographers. The Photo Editor should also have experience in photo processing and· development. 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. A three-page statement.of intent and a resume are requiredfor application. For questions about the application process orfor more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4543 or 631-4324. 
, page _8__ The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 17, 2000 
,Z?.ec:..c r~U-4 :_ a:~~'-" StudentAward 
RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
Step Burum, a freshman residing in Breen-Phillips, is planning on majoring in Biology. In her free time, however, this Cedar Falls, IA native is active in a variety of recreational pursuits. Thus far as a Notre Dame student, Steph has participated in the Biathlon, IH Football, Domer Run and most recently served as the Late Night Olympics representative for Breen-Phillips. Steph spends a fair amount of time at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center as she is o_nce again training to bike across the state of Iowa this summer. 
Recipients receive <E~ merchandise from the 


VARSITY SHOP
.., 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 
&ll 

VARSITY SHOP
7:2e--­
~~......-&-~-t>4Z. 

'l'I' 
"Specializing in Authentic www.nd.edu/--recsport Notre Dame Sportswear" 

Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (I::.~ 
,1'"'L..r~..:.......:.. ..._ .... 
merchandise courtesy of '-&,.--.. _........... ~,---y ~ and the V·T·O· with two locations in the Joyce Center. The v;ir.0, is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 

---=------------~-7 
• 
Thursday, Februay I 7, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Death penalty deserves attention 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Prnsident Clinton rejected r,alls for a national moralori­um on capital punishment Wednesday but urged the nation's g1;vernors to "look 
very close­ly" at their d e a t h p () ll ii I t y systems to nrnkP sun· that inno­
ci> n t peo­
ple arc 

not nxl'-Clinton cuted. 
!·IP said 1t was i:ourngcous or Illinois Gov. GPorgf' Byan to impose a t'rei~zp on executions aflflr 
the nxonPration of U death row inmatc->s in his staw over two decad,~s. Clinton said dPalh p111rnlty supportP-rs ­including himself -havr "an cispecially heavy obligation'' to make :;ure then~ is no question of guilt !'or con­demrrnd prisoners. 
At an hourlong new~ con­l'crcnce ranging from domos­tir subjPrts to l'ornign policy, Clinton r1duscd to say whPthPr lw will chal!Pngr ethics rornplaints :i('cking to strip him or his Arkansas law liccnsr berausr ol' his con­duct in thr Monica !,(~Winsky scandal. 
Ill' said lw paid $850,000 last year lo Sf!ttlt; a related case· -thP sPxual harass­m1\nt suit ol' Paula Jonc~s ­only to pn1vent it from being a distraction to his presiden­cy. !IP suid the suit "had absolutelv no mc1rit." The fed­eral judg<' in tlw Jones case found Clinton in contempt of court for giving false testimo­ny regarding his relationship with Lewinsky. 
On another subject, Clinton um. I.ast week. Sen. Russ said he has not ruled out a Feingold. D-Wis., urged visit to Pakistan next month Clinton to suspend fedora! when he visits its arch rival, executions. India. He said his decision "In the federal cases, I wonld hingP on whether stop­don't believe it is called for," ping in Islamabad could stop the president said. Ile said 27 tho regional arms race, pro­people have been condemned mote dPmocracy in military­under federal law, 20 in civil­ruleu Pakistan and resolve ian courts and seven through tho India-Pakistan conflict. the military system, He said the llnited States He said the Justice would be happy lo help medi­Department is reviewing ato the dispute ovflr Kashmir. whether the death penalty is but only if both countries being imposr,d fairly from a seek help. racial standpoint, and is 
Upon striding into the East drawing up guidelines to Boom for his first regular make it easier for prisoners news conference of the year, to pursue clemency requests. Clinton annount'.ed · the "I think that if I were a gov­release of $125 million in ernor still, I would look very federal money to help needy closelv at the situation in my families buv home heating oil state· and det'.ide what the in the Nortl;east. facts are," said Clinton. As 
The pre.si-governor, he d en t also signed four said he execution
"Would I sleep better at 
would seek authoriza­
night ifit were law? {{it
$GOO million tions. iu emer­would really work, 1 The presi­genry funds dent also
would." 
to doal with said he was 
the current inclined to crisis and Bill Clinton support a problems president measure by likely to Sen. Patrick ocrur later l.eahv, D­this year in arnas suffering Vt.. on capital punishri'ient. It from extreme heat. Clinton provides for DNA testing of said he is restricted by law inmates who seek to prove from tapping into the they did not commit the Strategic Petroleum Reserve crime for which they were to moderate fuel prices, hut condemned. added, "I have not ruled out "Would I sleep better at any action." night if it were law?" Clinton 
l'he idea of a death penalty said. "If it would really work, moratorium has gathered 1 would. In other words. I am momentum since Gov. Ryan favorably disposed toward took the unprecedented step it." Jan. 31 of putting all execu­He said that Ryan "did the tions on hold in Illinois, say­right thing" in ordering a ing that the state's system state moratorium on execu­was "fraught with error." tions, particularly since "a 
Before that. the American majority of the American 
Bar Association had called people support capital pun­
for a death penalty moratori-ishment, as do I." 

...and the buck stops here-At the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union, where we're for people, not for profit. 
Go team. 
0 ~~~!~c~~~~~~ 
2 l 9-239-6611 
www.ndfcu.org e-mail: ndfcu@ndfcu.org 
INDEPENDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY 
Former rival Bauer endorses McCain 
ment. "Ile'll dispel that." 
Associated Press 
Also signing on was California Secretary of State Bill Jones,GREENVILLE, S.C. 
the highest elected Republican
Pushing toward Saturday's 
in that state, which votes March primary. Sen. John McCain won 7 as part of the big round of pri­endorsements Wednesday from maries that could well settle the 
former rival Gary Bauer and a GOP presidential nomination. 
California offidal switching 
Jones. whose own election in 
from George W. Bush. The 1998 relied on independents
Texas governor laid plans for a 
and Democrats, said he fresh round of fund raising switt'.hed his endorsement 
altfff running through $50 mil­because McCain's message of lion. 
campaign finance reform would While McCain crowed about reach beyond Republican stal­
gathering enthusiasm, Bush 
warts and help build the party.
rebuffed suggestions that he 
He complained that some 
had too little to show for his Republicans in South Carolina money, saying he was already were sending the message that campaigning in every state and "your vote doesn't count as an 'Tve got a good chance of win­
independent or crossover 
ning." 
unless you vote for Bush." 
Bush was sharply criticized 
llep. King, H-N.Y., said he 
bv one of his num1ffous con­was "reconsidering my support
gressional supporters, Rep. 
for Bush" because his appear­Peter King of New York, who ance at Bob Jones Universitysaid the governor offended him was hard to defend and made 
as a Catholic by speaking at Bush seem 
Bob Jones 
"almost blind 
University, 
"He [McCain] is our to Catholic 
controversial 
sensibilities." 
for anti­[GOP] best shot at win­
Aides said Catholic and ning the White House. Rush was set racial 
/McCain] has a fix on the to report he 
remarks by 
had about $20 
past president moral idea ofAmerica. " 
million left 
Bob Jones Jr. 
from his 
Polls put 
Gary Bauer vaunted $70 
Bush and 
funner GOP presidential candidate million cam­
McCain in a 
dead heat just davs before the important Republican pri­mary in South Carolina. 
Bauer. who quit the race two weeks ago, announced his sup­port for McCain at a rally at Furman University. 
"He is our best shot" at win­ning the White House, Bauer said, arguing McCain has a fix on "the moral idea of America." 
Bauer, who was an adviser to President Reagan and whose own campaign focused largely on opposing abortion, is an important force in the competi­tion for social conservatives' votes. Bush has sent repeated mailings to social and religious conservatives questioning McCain's commitment to oppos­ing abortion. 
"There's been so much doubt raised about my commitment to some of these issues," McCain said about the Bauer endorse-
Notre Dame Film. Television and Theatre presents 
......, 
-~ ~ ,"tllY,• 
1. 
.,.r,
a·~ ~.'''.* 
Actors fro111 tl1e Lo11do11 Stage
All's Well That Ends Well 
by William Shakespeare 
Sunday Matinee. Februar/ 20 ........... 2:30 pm Thursday. February 24 ........................ 730 pm Wednesday. February 23 ................. 7:30 pm Friday, February 25 ............................. 7:3U pm Saturday. February 26. ...... . .... 7:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats S16 • Seniors S14 • All Students S12 Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
paign trea­
sury. That's 
about twice what McCain said he had left in the bank. Bush already has set a new record for primary-sea­son spending. 
Bush was revving up his fund­raising machine after a lull, seeking a refill to compete in looming and expensive big states. McCain has been fund raising heavily since his sur­prise blowout in New Hampshire. 
"We have a plan in place that's going to enable me to stav in this race for the long run"," Bush said, noting he was campaigning in more states than McCain. And he suggested McCain was breaking the rules by surpassing state-by-state spending caps imposed on can­didates who take federal matching funds. Bush isn't sub­ject to the limits because he declined taxpayer funds. 
The residency of Actors from ille London Stage 1s sponsored. ,n parL by :he Henkels Lacwre Senes 
~~':~ ih1s.ati!~'lf'.; •~ mad& .oo~eibic ·n ~ar: ~::_:~~ ~~m1:_ntr! Fl;m~t,.::io_:~ :::'1:_J;.;~:~-~~-;;r~:-~:co~~...:~e.l:J1~:i.~~s fl A't,;;..
:f;f: /~ ~mm:~on. ! ~:ara Jgenc-,,. ·::1m i~,mds 1i:m .n: lnt:i!f!a ueri:r.:1 A::c':'!.,i .:i:i;; J-: ,h::1.!.I,-~ c..oc-... 1:r:...r.• ~ Ars. 114,\i:V 
~ 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, Pebruary 17, 2000 
VOTEr-1VOTEr-1VOTEr-'VOTE 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17 
For the 2000L2001 Student Body President and Vice President 
On-Campus Students: Vote in your dorms from 1 Jam-1 pm and 5pm-7pm 
Off-Campus Students Vote in Debartolo from 10:30am-12:30pm and in C1 from 1:30pm-3:30pm 
participate in the raffle to win. ... Ticl(ets to the Men's Basl(etball Game vs Syracuse 
Or 
For Seniors, A Free Book of Senior Weel( Passes 
Brought to you by Judicial Council 
VOTEr-1VOTEr-1VOTEr-1VOTE 
Thursday, February 17, 2000 The Observer . TECHNOLOGY NEWS page 11 

Linux gains from Windows delay 
Assodaied Pre,s 
SRArrt.E 
In the spring of 1998. Microsoft Corp. promised that Urn next version of' its Windows NT busill.Pss computer operat­ing syst1:m would hr less than a 
year away. 
At Llw sanrn Linw. romput(~r 
users started !waring about a 
new system. cobl.ilcd together 
by softwarn wriwrs around the 
world and. surprisingly, given 
a\.vay l'or free. Its name vvas 
Linux and while some Mir.rosolt 
foes saw it as a way to unlock 
Llwm from Lim dominauce of' 
Windows. most ('xprrts were 
skrptical. 
Tinws changP. • Windows 2000. tlw stwn•sso1· 
Lo NT. will be launchl!d 
Thursday. a vear ]alt,. 
MnanwhilP. compnniPs large 
and small -tired of waiting for 
its promised new f'<mtun!s and 
bug fixPs -havP turnP<l to 
Linux to run their computer 
systPms. And Mi<:rosoft knows 
thn dP-lays have hurt Windows 
-al least in tlrn short run. 
"I think in sonrn spaces w<•ve 
giwn a littlci bit ol' opportunity," 
Microson president and chin/' 
ext)fUliw officer StPve Ballml'r 
arknowlt\dged Wn<lnesdav. "I 
think in all or 11mm we h,(vn a 
chance to come bark." 
The delays have givnn 
Microso!'t's eompetitors ­
including Linux -timP and 
opportunity. Ballmer said. 
Sonw universities and Internet 
s1,rvin' providers in particular 
aband01wd Windm,vs and went 
to Linux. he said. 
..Nobody likes to wail." said 
Larry .\uguslin. f'oundPr and 
CEO ol' VA Linux Systems, 
whirh sells hardware bundled 
with Linux softwarn. "What wn 
have is an affordable alU·!rna­
tiw that will not onlv cost less. 
but providP a lot moi·e tlP-xibili­
Ly." 
Study: Internet Can lead to social isolation 
The consultant International Data Corp. reports that Linux now represents 24 percent of the total market for business opPrnting systems, up from 16 percent a year ago. 
Windows. meanwhile, has remained relatively stagnant at :rn percent. Tht~ remainder is held by various versions of the Unix system and Novell's NetWare. 
That stands in contrast to the versions of Windows designed !'or individual personal complll­ers -largely Windows 95 and 98 -which are still over­whelmingly dominant with about 85 p11rcent of the market. 
Linux was first created in 1991 by then-universitv student software developers have start­i>d writing more applications to work with Linux, as major computin,K companies like Intel. rB:\1 and Dell have expressed interest in the system, said Tony Picrardi, an analyst for 
me. 
"Linux has gained some r,red­ibility by getting some applica­tions out there and proving that it works in the real world " Piccardi said. "The delays i'n Windows 2000 gave them the time to do that." 
Linux proponents say the interest in the system goes deeper than a simple delay in the Windows upgrnde. · 
"\\'hat people are missing is that Microsoft's software is pro-
Linus · Torvaltls, 
"Linux has gained some
who still 
shepherds credibility by getting 
Linux devel­some applications oul opment 
there and proving that it
today. Its main works in the real world." strnngths are flexibility and 
Tony Piccardi 
r e I ia b"il i t v . 
IDC analyst
Users can pick and 
prietary, and because of that. it's inherently inflexible," said Bob Young, chair­man and co-founder of' Red Hat Software. which mar­kets Linux. 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Too much time online makes people more likely to go offline in real life, according to a study released Wednesday. 
"The more hours people use the Internet, the less time they spend with real human beings," said Norman Nie, a Stanford political scientist who conducted the study of the Net's impact on societv with Professor Lutz Erbring of the Free University of Berlin. 
The study found that too much time on the Internet 
makes people "The Internet could be 
cleansing.'
reclusive and 
the ultimate isolating We're losing
Jess likely to 
the tolerance
technology that further
interact with 
for diversity."
people face reduces our participation 
At least one · 
to face. 
in communities even outside
" T h P, 
expert had a
more than television did
Internet 
problem with
could be the before it. " 
the study's
ultimate iso­
mcthodol'Ogy.
lating tech­
''Presenting
Norman Nie
nology that 
it as a scien­
further political scientist 
The study also found that most surfers use e-mail and have increased their "conver­sations" with family and friends. 
But Bernardo Carducci, a professor of psychology at Indiana University Southwest. cautioned that e-mail in place of face-to-face human interac­tion is a dangerous social dynamic. Many frequent users of e-mail and chat groups tend to seek out only like­minded individuals 
"There's a difference between conversing and con­necting," Carducci said. "This creates the possibility for what I call 'electronic 
choose thP piecP.S of the operat­ing system that they want to use, customizing it for a wide variety of computing purposes. 
Linux users r.an make changes directly to its source code. meaning that bugs and crashes r.rop up less frequentlv. 
Windows, however, finds strength in the fact that so many people know how to use it and troubleshoot it. In addi­tion. more software applica­tions -which perform specific tasks like accounting and word processing -are written to be run on Windows than any other operating system. ensuring that customers have a wide base of business programs to r,hoose from. 
Over the past year, however, •·we're giving customers pro­prietary control of the product, and working with them to tailor it directly to their needs." 
Microsoft doesn't necessarilv need to worry about its bottom line, however. 
Because the Linux software is available for free via the Internet. companies that pro­vide it must make their profits by offering additional programs and services such as installa­tion help and tech support. 
This market remains relative­ly small. Red Hat. the biggest Unux vendor, had just $11 mil­lion in revenue in the fiscal year ending February 1999. while the total annual market for business operating systems is about $9 billion. 
C!LASS ~0-UJfl!IL ELE t;TIOJfS 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN RUNNING FOR CLASS COUNCIL INCLUDING OFF-CAMPUS CO-PRESIDENTS AND SENATO~ SHOULD ATTEND AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING . . . . ' 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 20 AT 6:00 PM IN THE MONTGOMERY THEATRE IN LAFORTUNE 
31 yo1t "'" 1c11116l11 to alft1Hd, p811t1s11 eo1tt11ct 
Boeliy Da,,.40, 11tdltit1I 6oitNil VP ol eeutio1es at 1-'1666 or do1111lo..Z 

reduces our 
participation 
in communities even more 
than television did before it," 
Nie said. 
The study surveyed 4,113 
American adults in 2,689 
households and provided 
those respondents with free 
Internet access and WebTV to 
facilitate the survey. · 
About one-third said thev 
were online five or more 
hours per week. Of those peo­
ple, 13 percent said they spent 
less time with family and 
friends, 26 percent talked less 
to family and friends on the 
phone, and 8 percent attended 
fewer social events. 
"We're not pronouncing any 
doomsday scenario at all," 
Erbring said. 'The fact is that 
there is an increase in the 
quantity of communication, 
but there is a loss in the 
warmth of the human quali­
ty." 
I 
tific study is 
a bit of a reach. It's preliminary work and it doesn't tell us much," said Howard Fienberg, a research analyst with the Statistical Assessment Service in Washington. D.C. 
Fienberg said the preset group of respondents who were interested in taking part in an Internet survey may have skewed the study's results. 
He suggested a more ran­dom selection of survey respondents studied over a longer period of time would produce more accurate indi­actors of [nternet use and social effects. 
The survey was conducted for the Stanford-based Institute for the Quantitative Study of Society. The work was done by InterSurvey. a Menlo Park company which Nie co-founded. 
1eJ{z,c1e,,/.,e,. 't/4,e,. 0 6-6 e-t.-ve-t.-. 
f 
Welcome Junior Parents 
Reservations Required 
233--1000 

Downtown South Bend's Finest Italian Dining 
Fresh Prepared Pasta, Seafood, Steaks and the 
Dial Phone Appcri1 674-0900 
C;lH"FOI'}' R46(l for more inform~ttiun 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Thursday, February 17, 2000 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bo, Q. Norrr Dame. IN 465% 024 Somh !Jinmµ H.,11. Norrc D•me. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M . .Sh,mnon RyJu  David Rogern  
As~T. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Perelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Log,m Vl£Wl'O!NT EorroR, Collee.t Gwghen Sro,ns EDITOR: BriJn K,ssler 
SCENE EDITOR, Mid,ad Vanegas SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EmTOR: Kevin D:ilum 
AoVEllTlSING 1\-lA:-iAGER: Brvan Lu« 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Brcr Hudar SYSTEMS ,\DMIC'IISTRATOR: M id1,1d Revers WEIi ADMINISTRATOR: faik Kusltro 
CONTllOLLER: Timorhy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Muellci 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX. .. ... .. ..631-6927 ADVERTISING................................ 631-6900/8840 
ob•erver@,JaIWin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE... . ..... 631-5313 NEWS... .. .................. 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VlEWl'O!NT ...................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS. .......................................631-4543 
observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE... .. ................................631-4S40 observer.sane. i@nd.edu SAINT MAR¥'s............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO ......................................................631-8767 STh,EMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ...............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire ar l1ttp·l!obm·1,er.1ul.edtt for daily updates ofcampus news. sporrs, features Jnd opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
wea1her for up--to-rhe 
weekl)' studenr reviews 
minute forecasrs 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and r:ires of prim ads 
liil c.unpus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
to meet the editors and
arricles publisl1ed after 
staff
Augnsr 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by che students of che UniversiryofNorre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Edirorial content, including adverrisements, is nor governed br policies of rhe aJminisrrncioll ofei rber insciturion. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on conrenL 
The news is rcpom:d as acrnrardy and objeaivdy as possible. Unsignec! edirorials represem the opinion of · the majomy of the Editor in Chief, Mani!ging Editor, Assisrnnr Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, lerrers and columns presenr rhc views of rhe aud10rs i!nd not necessarily those ofThe Observer 
Viewpoinr sp;ice is ,1vailable !O all readers. The fre, expression ofall opinions through letters is rnrnuraged. lerters ro the Ediror musr be signed and must include com,,cc inform:nion. 
Q11Miow regm·ding Obmwrpolities should be dh-ect­,-d 10 Editor in Chie/'Michdl,; Kmpa. 

Salvaging the vocation of fatherhood 
It is :-3:39 a.m. and our 20 month-old daughter, Flannery, has just !'alien asleep. She has some unidentified and perhaps unidentifiable bacterial infec­tion. For the first couple of' days, we thought it was just a cold, or at best a minor infection, with a mid-level fever, cough and runny nose. But today (I have not gone to sleep yet, so what is technically yesterday is still today for me). what were whim­pers of' protest turned into howls ­yes, a 22-pound per­son can howl -and we took her to the dor,tor. 
Flannery has a double ear infection. Even after antibi­otics and children's Motrin have pressed the pain back to whimpers and an occa­sional wail, she cannot settle into any sort of rest unless we lie down with her. My wife Susan and l have been doing a tag-team vigil. The shoulder ofmy shirt is stained with snot because Flanner.y's nose is raw, and wiping it causes even more pain. So I simply let it drain on me. 
This is the vocation of parenthood. l am still awake because it is difficult to cease this kind of vigil at will. Sleep will come when exhaustion takes over. It is hard lo watch your child suffer. 
I am waiting until she feels well enough to give me the kind of joyful greeting that she does when I come home from my work vor,ation -she runs to the door the moment she hears my key turn in the lor,k. It will be at least a cou­ple of days before this part of my voca­tion as father can return. 
In my last column. I talked about the lay vocation of work. l also mentioned that most adults are called to multiple vocations -tile ar,tivities through which thcv work out in a deliberate fashion their relationship with God and neighbor. Parenthood, when understood in its full sense, is a vocation. 

I want to focus speci!ically on the voca­tion of fatherhood. This i,; in part because it is what I know, but also because of the two -motherhood and fatherhood -it is the one that receives less social attention. The results of this lar,k of attention are not good. The National Fatherhood Initiative reports that four out of 10 children do not live with their fathers. The reasons for this are multiple and r,omplex. Divorr,e and divorce law, sexual mores, the lack of adequate training or living wage jobs for unskilled workers and many other fac­tors are in the mix. 
In previous columns, I have written about how Catholic teaching can help ameliorate and perhaps even overr,ome certain social problems. This time, though. the question has to be raised whether, however unintentionally, it aids and abets the other forces at play. 
Official Catholic teaching holds that women have a biologically and even ontologically -that is, from their very being -grounded predisposition for sel!'­sar,rifice. Such self-sar,rifice displays itself most of all in motherhood, such that even those women who do not have chil­dren take up mothering-like adivities for others who are in need. 
What do fathers do? There is far less guidance here. It is noteworthy that both John Paul II and the American bishops' conf'erenr,e have written or attempted to write major documents on "the dignity and vor,ation of women," whereas nei­ther one has undertaken similar efforts with regard to men. One Catholic com­mentator notes the "constant reference to the gifL" of women without reference to the giftedness of men ... (O]ne would hope that maleness would be more than the remainder of what is left over after all the dimensions of femininity have been articulated." 
The language of most dor,umcmts that disr,uss the living wage display the assumption that the male head of house­hold is to earn it. What we can glean from these statements is that men put bread on the table while women display self-sacrifice by caring for children. Such a depiction first of all underestimates the self-sacrifice in working to earn a living wage. But the problems are even deeper. Women r,an work outside of the home as long as it is in keeping with their "proper vocation" as wife and mother. There is · no similar qualification given to men ­no referenr,es to the vocation of work being limited by the vocation of husband and father. This may well be because the two are held to be virtually one and the same, though I have yet to come ar,ross a document that applies the term "voca­tion" to fatherhood at all. 
There are dangers in understanding fatherhood as almost entirely taken up with the vocation of work. One of the ways a father r,an be absent from his family is to give all of himself to work. Such distance is a frequent contributor to adultery and divorce. Of divorced fathers, studies have indicated that they are most likely to keep up with child sup­port payments if' they have a significant emotional attachment to their children. In both of these cases we sec that the successful implementation of the role of financial provider is deeply dependent on success in bonding with one's family in other ways. ways that require self-sar,ri­tice. 
There are exceptions to what I've described of official documents -see the American bishops' "Follow the Way of Love." But such exceptions are few and most often are brief sentence-or-two reminders to dads to pitr,h in. 
This is insufikient. The r,ontinual emphasis on women's unique ability to sacrifir,e for others sets up the presuppo­sition that men lack this ability, and thus lar,king it have no obligation -no voca­tion -to fulfill it. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor oftheology. His column runs every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
WOULDN'T THI\T BE 
LIKE PAYING A 
BURGLAR TO GUARD MY HOUSE? 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You never get ahead ofanyone as long as you try to get even with him. " 
Lou Holtz football coach 

EWPOINT 
O
THE 
BSERVER page 13
Thursday, February 17, 2000 
Fixing the O'Shaughnessy clock problem 
I have come up with an idea for solving the lack or docks in O'Sha.ughnessy. The problem is that they always g-ot stolf'n, right? Well, what do we have in every sin­gli'. d,L-;sruom that jusL about never gets stolr111" Th1tt's right. tlw crnci!ix1~s. So nw Marlayna idea is LO rnn1iecL l11n 
Soenneker 
dorks to tlw crucifix­
es. 
We rnuld just glLH\ !Jere we go the clock to Lhn cruri­again lix in sonw way, or we-could oven make the clock part of the crucifix. W<~ r,ould have a digitul clock on the cross whern normally the inscription above Jesus' !mad goes. Or. if we wantnd to be ri'all) irrnvcrPnL we could actually mak(i Urn crucifix bP tlw clock. 
Jpsus' arms could lw tlw hands or tlw clock. and on the hour he could say some­thing like "It's eight o'clock: have you for­given anyone recently?" I'm pretty sure thesP clocks wouldn't gt>t stolen. Who would st11al Jesus·t 
Tlwse are the sorts of ideas l have when I don't have enough lo do, which. thankfully. isn't very often. llowever, since I am a new columnist at The 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Trust your instincts, learn to love your life 
• This wnf'k is Eating Disorders l\warP1wss Week and hopd'ully tlww will be numerous awarr.ness 1wcnl~. information and discussions about <'aLing disorders. their devas­tating elfocts and ways to change thP trnnd. Becausr, this has b1~en said. I would like to mention a pm·­sonal mvclation about Paling disor­ders that I believe might help. 
Eating disorders are not about all of the statistics that characterize those individuals, not about sodety that make them f<'el they need to look a certain way and not about th11 sPrious statistics ol' eating disor­ders taking over many young lives ... eating disorders are about trust. Most people immediately assumr. that I mean trust in others. but I don't. I mean THUST IN YOUH­SELF. Different than sdl'-esteem. Lrusl in yourself allows you to choose the right decisions for your­self. to foel your own limitations and allow no one else to define things for you. That limit may be, in ti~rms or running, which is a. l'avorilP of mine, maybe throP miles a day or maybn 15 but that is up to you, no om) can drtinr what that healthy limit is but you. 
Information about eating disor­ders will tl'll you that the person trapped may need to foci that they can only control food in their lives or that food makes them feel supe­rior to others .. this is all an effect o!' not trusting themselves. They don't trust themselves to contrnl their own lives. tlwy foel others i:ontrol their life. they do not trust the activities and situations they do our th(\ fart that they really want to do them but because others tell them to participate or not to. They let othersjL1dg11 if'thal is right for them. and so on ... 
Although it has taken mfl five years I have finally come to this understanding myself I always tried to mold my feelings into what the doctors, friends and psycholo­gists told me were the symptoms or the l'!\asuns for my anorexia. But what I have found is that diagnos­ing myself and realizing that I could trust myself to know what was real­ly wrong was the key to my victory over anorexia. 


I don't believe that I ever would have found this had one person in my life not continued to force me to trust myself, let me make mistakes and let me decide for myself, even when I didn't want to or didn't think I should. So ... the point of this piece .. if you want to help your loved one overcome this horrible disorder, don't help. Make them help themselves. trust them to do it, continue to force them to trust themselves, Jet them make mis­takes but stand behind them in any of' these situations because for some reason they have Jost their feeling to have feeling. Hope is free and the destination may not be far from their own heart and yours. 
For those caught in the trap of an eating disorder try it for the nnxt minute, try it the next meal. try it every time you do something -try trusting yours<'lf. Even if you begin by trusting"yourself in unhealthy ways, I started that way also, but I kept going and now I trust myself in the most healthy ways and I do healthy things. Maybe society doesn't always see them as the best way but l know they are right for me. I know where the limits are. I didn't know this before because I did11't foci myself. Never again though, because I have something now that I will never let go. I trust myself and I love my life! 
JoAnna Deeter Senior, Off-campus February 15, 2000 
Observer, I thought it would be best if I started offby giving you an idea of the kind of thoughts you will be reading, or purposely not reading, every two weeks for the rest of the semester. I also thought it would be a good idea to let you know a littln about the writer of these thoughts. 
namely. me. 
I am 18 years old. and my birthday is in Or,tobcr, so I'll be a senior before I can legally drink. I haven't even voted yet. I am a freshman. for which I apologize. but I remind you that you all had to be fresh­men once. too. 
l have a boyfriend of two years "bark home." I think about half of the people here have a significant other "back home." !l's a popular place to keep these people. Conveniently out or the way. 
My major will probably be in psycholo­gy. ,vhich so far has meant getting used to the fact that whenever I tell someone that, they, without fail, make a joke about how I might figure out how messed up they. or a nearby friend, rnally are. It also means I spend a lot of time being experi­mented on in psychology experiments in order to get extra credit. ln fact, I spent Valentine's Day night doing an experi­ment under the direction of psycholngy 
Community reacts to cheering antics, publicity of student jeers 
M.O.B should support not scar 
Isn't it great to have two outstanding basketball teams on campus this season? Since knocking off Ohio State in the pre­season N.I.T., the men's basketball team has enjoyed outstanding success and support from their fans. It has been an exciting year thus far with "Friday Night Live," defeating several ranked teams, rushing the floor and forming the "M.O.B." 
We believe we can speak for all the stu­dents when we say we have been pleas­antly surprised by the play of our team and with Coach Matt Doherty's commit­ment and enthusiasm to not only basket­ball but also the Notre Dame community as a whole. As Coach "D'' alluded to before, students can really create an atmosphere that both encourages our team and rattles the opposition. As evi­dent by our superior record at home, the importance and effectiveness of a rau­cous crowd cannot be ignored. 
It's been fun this year trying to come up with creative ways to get into the heads of opposing players and coaches. Chanting "Who's he?" after starting line­up intros and yelling while the oppos.ition has the ball have and can be good ways to mess with the visiting team. However. as chronicled in The Observer, South Bend Tribune, Chicago Tribune, ESPN radio and countless other media outlets, some of the antics wnnt a bit too far. 
At Notre Dame. we trv to hold our­selves to a higher level of conduct in the classroom. in the community, on the court and off What should have been a huge win for our team and school has turned into a blemish on our student body's reputation. There are two home men's games left this season. Let's show our team, fans and critics that the "M 0.8," ran still make an impact with­out leaving a scar. 
Micah Murphy 
Michael Palumbo 
Srudenr Body President and Vice President February 16, 2000 
major/former student bndy president can­didate, "Darth" Todd. In this experiment, I wore funny little ultra-violet glasses that tracked my eye movement and gave me a headache. This is the sort of partying life I lead. 
lam also a music minor. This basically means that I spend all week working hard on a piece of music that 1 think is dillicult only to watch my piano teacher sight-play it twice as fast as me and three times as well, all while holding a pencil in her hand. (This normally makes playing the piano rather difficult.) · 
As to my ideological views. I am a Roman Catholic and a political liberal. My main soapbox topics are discrimination, prejudir,e against pretty much anyone and the death penalty. However, I am rel­atively sure that if the world ended on a weekday, I would probably not know and would still go to class the next day. I am that out of touch with current events. But l will try my best to have opinions on any really important things that happen. 
Last week, I got my belly button pierced. It was actually remarkably pain­less. The most difficult part of the evening was getting to the place. I, being a cheap­skate, wanted to take the bus. So I called 
I can guarantee you that if UConn had won the game, this incident would probably not even be mentioned or totallv blown out of proportion. Maybe if UConn had half the for­titude it did last year it would be in first place in the Big East, not fifth. The aim of a person who makes comments, such as the ones made by Notre Dame students, is to get inside the head of their opponent. They are not seri­ous insults. They are not bent on making grown men "bury their head" in their chests. The insults made did what they were suppose to do, get UConn's head off of its game. I have been in the position of the UConn players on numerous occasions, and I have shaken the hands of the very people making those com­ments after the game. Not because l like them or the things they said but because it is all part of the game. 
Luke Burke 
Sophomore Sorin Hall February 15, 2000 
To Khalid El-Amin and the UConn Huskies: I would like to apologize. The actions of the 20 or so Notre Dame fans last Saturday were completely unacceptable. I feel the need to apologize because I consider all students, fac­ulty and alumni of Notre Dame to be part of the Notre Dame family. When one of the members of the Notre Dame family acts in such a horrific manner, it reflects poorly on all the members of the family. I only hope that you can find it in your hearts to look past these few rotten apples and see the true beauty of our family. 
Mark Naman 
Class of 1995 February I5, 2000 
The actions of the fans, at what is sup­posed to be a highly respected, Catholic uni­versity were nothing less than despicable and distasteful. Khalid El-Amin keeps his family out of his basketball career. In the future, l ask that you have some respect for an All­American point guard who is married and supports both children. 
Eric N agrabski 
Graduate Student 
University of Connecticut 
February I 6, 2000 
the bus people and asked how to get to Lincolnway. They told me, and I happily boarded that bus. 
But, unbeknown to me, there are two parts to Lincolmvay: Lincolnway West and Lincolnway Osceola. The bus I was on went to the first, and I wanted to go to the second. So I ended up riding the bus all the way around the route and back to the bus station. I cannot for the life of me navigate bus systems. This is my second attempt to get somewhere on a bus, and both times I got on the wrong one. I am nnt a very cosmopolitan person. 
I also work in South Dining Hall. This does not exactly thrill me, but they let me work a lot, which is nice. I am, however. looking to move up next year to one of those great jobs around campus where they pay you to do your homework. I am tired of paying this University to give me homework; I'm ready for the University to pay me to do homework. 
Marylana is a freshman psychology major. Her column runs every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


E 
Thursday, February 17, 2000 


ACADEMY AWARDS WATCH 
Oscar nominations announced 
The 72nd annua)Academy Award nominations ~fr~· 
,et!-Tuesday in Beverly Hills, Calif.• by the Academy of Motio11Pictµre Arts and Sciences. The tioi:rrln :!,i.~tkinain categories are as follows: 
BEST PICTURE BEST DIRECTOR 
"American Beauty" SamMendes, "American Beauty" 
..The Cider House Rules" Spike Jonze, "Being John Malkovich" "The Green Mile" Lasse Hallstrom. "The Cider House Rules" "The Insider" Michael Mann, "The Insider" "The Sixth Sense'' M. Night Shyamala.n, "The Sixth Sense" 
BEST ACTOR 
Russel Crowe, "The Insider" Richard Farnsworth."The Straight Story"·
Sean Penn, "Sweet,and Lowdown" 
Kevin Spacey,'"Alllerica1i Beauty"Denzel Wasliington, "The Hurricane" 
BEST ACTRESS 
Annette Benin$:; ''American Beauty" Janet Mcteer,· Tumbleweeds" Julianne Moote.. ~The End of the Affair" 
Meryl Stree~, ..Music of the Heart" 
Hilary Swarik. "Boys.Don't Cry" 
By GUNDER KEHOE Scent Movit Critic 
"The BPach" might look like the last paradise on earth but the movie smells worse than the SLalen Island dumping ground. No creative party involved earned their paycheck 
in this landmark tribute with their mouths'
"The Beach"
to bad moviemaking agape and the earlier and. to make matters allusions to darkness worse. the film dese­zero arP so botched that crates its source mater­Richard's transfor­ial. an imprnssive debut mation into a com­novel bv Alex Garland. out offiue shommchs mando is mel only Someho~v. the previous­with laughter. lie ly successful Danny slithers around the Boylfl ( "Trainspotting") Director: Danny Boyle junile, eating bugs has directed somP.thing and carving pung,. e
Starring: Leonardo DiCaprio,
so inept that the entire stakes likf~ thP heroes tricky camera moves in Virginie Ledoyen, Guillame Canet of his f'avorite 
Thailand cannot save and Tilda Swinton his hide. In Leonardo DiCaprio's first role since 
Titanic, the actor turned movie-star bulks up to play Richard. a 20-something back­packer who scours the Islands of Thailand for genuine adventure. While in 
a ramshackle hotel. Richard meets another traveler who leaves him the map to a hidden Island before slitting his own wrists. Wanting a risky opportunity, Richard takes the map and invites the French pair francois (Virginie Ledoyen) and Ettiene (Guillaume Canet). along for the journey. 
This hidden beach is everv bit the idvl­lic paradise that all travelers dream ;)f. Sal. played by Tilda Swinton, runs a com­pound that is a gen-x Swiss Family Robinson and for a while. everything is perfect. Although Francois and Richard brielly fall in love, the audience quickly learns that there's no such thing as par­adise. In the film's final act. Richard becomes part savage as he begins living all his Vietnam fantasies and pretty soon young fans are treated to Leo playing war in the jungle. Sal decides she'd rather let injured persons die than risk her secret beach and this onr,e heavenly spot becomes more like Hell. 
DiCaprio tries hard and one r,an under­sland his attraction to lhe dark edge of Hichard's charactc>r. Hichard is a nCTces­s11ry cha.nge from "Titanic's" Jack Dawson but the transition looks better on paper. Even though he put on musdc, DiCaprio is still too fragile and boyish J'or Hichard's savage sidfl. 
When the film tahs its morbid turn. 
the audience is lefl 
Vietnam movies. In 
the book. all the war referem:es are electric but under Boyle, none ofit works. 
It's difficult to discuss supporting r,har­acters because there's not much to say. Virginie Ledoyen as Francois exists merely to take off her clothes in a cheesy under;vater love scene amidst sparkling algae. After the necessary T&A, she con­veniently falls to the wayside. Tho rhar­actor Etienne played by Guillaume Canct biekers constantly with Richard but the actor is mostly fighting the English lan­guage. The rest of the camp is comprised uf hippie travelers, however their brief introductions aren't enough. 
Since Richard is the only full character, the camaraderie. tension, and overall group dynamics are slight but never fully realized. Tilda Swinton is genuinely frightening in her twisted ways of pre­serving the beach but it's difficult to take her role seriously when nothing else is adding up. 
DiCaprio makes an easy scapegoat but everyone deserves equal blame. John Hodge's screenplay delivers innumerable moments where viewers would rather turn away than watch the performers embarrass themselves. The movie is dri­ven by Richard's voir.e over whir.h 
. : BEST·SUPPORTING ACTRESS 
·· · ,'.frinI.Cdilette, "The Sixth Sense" 
···.AfigeU:naJolie, "Girl, Interrupted 
-~tllerine Keener, "Being John Malkovich" 
•Sa,rnaptha Morton, "Sweet and Lowdown" ·• Chlbe Sevigny, "Boys Don't Cry" ­

reduces the insights of a bar,kpackcr to ineffective babble. Hichard is always talk­ing about the philosophy of travel but the audicnr,c is never listening. 
At one time, Danny Boyle had a real talent with linking story and camerawork but here, all his creative ideas are done for Lhc sake of showing off. The director doesn't balance the wavering tones and the novel's cool obsession with pop-cul­ture, video games and Vietnam movies. 
The viewer might find some redemp­tion in Darius Khondji's ("Seven"i cine­matography. but a two-hour travelogue of'Thailand can be rnlher tedious. 
Anyone who has traveled would identi­fy with the novel's perspr1cLive on adven­ture, but it is utterly ruined in its foray onto the big sr.reen. "The Beach" is just one more failure in a long list of wasted adaptations. It's particularly discouraging Lo know that the llollywood produr,ers helped sacrifice the natural island land­scape for this heap of a movie. Indeed. "The Beach" isn't worth the life of a sin­gle fish. 

Movie Title 
1. Scream 3 
2. 
The Beach 

3. 
Snow Day 

4. 
The Tigger Movie 

5. 
The Hurricane 

6. 
The Green Mile 

7. 
Next Friday 

8. 
Stuart Little 

9. 
Galaxy Quest 


10. Eye of the Beholder 
Weekend Sales 
$ 16.3 million $ 15.3 million $ 14. 3 million $ 9.4 million $ 3.6 million $ 3.1 million $ 2,8 million $ 2.7 million $ 2.2 million $ 2.1 million 
Source: Yahoo! 

-
s 
Thursday, February 17, 2000 page 15 
THEATER PREVIEW 

By KATIE WILHELM As,isranr Scene Editor 
Tlw llcsburgh Center for Intcrnatio11al Studies Auditorium is small, but with a l'cw orangn crates and overlurnnd garbage <:ans the stage is transf'ornwd into a f'andl'ul island. ThP Not-So-Hoyal Shakespeare Company promisc,s to captivate audi­cncc,s on this island when its prod uc­
ti on of "The The Tempest Tempest" opens tonight.
. Where: Hesburgh The play is the 
Center for r·ourth in a series of' acclaimed pro­
International 
ductions l'rom Studies Tlw Not-So-Hoyal 
. When: Tonight Shakespeare Company sin<'<' its
through Saturday, inception in 1997. 
7:30 p.m. Eager to direct bd'ore he gradu­
. Tickets: $3 for 
ated. Chris Lutz students, $5 for founded the com­
general public; pany af'ter mak­ing unsuccessful
available at door 
solicitations to 
organizations for l'unding to put on "Twldfth Night." Sincl' tlwn. Lim company has achi<wed success with "Much Ado about Nothing" in th<1 !'all of' 1998 and "Macbeth" in the spring of' 1999. 
Th<~ apprPciation f"or ShakrpParr that drovn l.ulz to found .tlrn company also drives stud1·11t lo brn:ome mem­bl'rs. 
"I wantPd lo gnt involved in Shakl~pcarean acting for a long time, and this scmrn~d likP the perfect oppor­tunity." said Christoplwr Bcely. who plays Alonzo. King of' Naples, in "The Tempest." 
Beely sharns his cnthusiasm and tal­nnl with tlw rnst of the cast and crew of "Tbc Tcmp1\sl." FivP months ago. tlw exceptional cast was chosen after lwo nights or auditions and one night of call-backs. Th<~ actors are a mix of' undcrgraduatl\ ,rnd graduate stud,~nts from a range of' majors, including math and film. tPlevision and theater. 
Watching the cast of' "The Tempest" in their final Wfick of rehearsals, it is <,asy to gnt swnpt away in th<\ir por­trayal of' the play. As rehearsal begins, an audio rncording of thunder !ills the auditorium and actors in blue rain­coal<; 11ood the stage. Fellow r,ast mem­bers scatter into the auditorium seats to watch as scenes am played out before lhem. From his sea.t in the front row. director Charlifl Camosy calls out to thr actors, reminding them to pir.k up their cues and increase their vol­ume. 
"'The TempPst' does not fit into the 'comedy' or 'tragedy' categories tradi­tionally given to Shakespeare. It com­bines clements of both into what one might call a 'romantic fantasy,"' said Camosy. "The play is very magical, both in theme and performance. Both the hardcore Shakespeare fan. along with someone who simply likes good entertainment. will be entertained by this show." 
In his directorial debut, Charlie Camosy leads the r;ast of sixteen and crew of l'our. As an undergraduate at Notre Dame. Camosy was active in the­ater. but graduated in the same year Lutz started the Not-So-Royal Shakepearn Company. llowever, as a graduate student Camosy has acted in both "Much Ado about Nothing" and "Marbeth" for the company. This year, he is pleased to be directing "The TempcsL." 
"Anything that l can do to keep this company going strong is well worth thf' effort," said Camosv. 
Camosy and his cast certainly have cultivated a magical performance that is sure to please audiences. Sophomore Matt Lee and freshman Monica Kerschner lead the ensemble cast with their outstanding performaces as Ferdinand and Miranda. 
John Sample. a senior physirs and math major, has been with the Not-So­1\oyal Shakespeare Company since "Twelfth Night." His tall frame. draped in an ornate robe. as well as his com­manding stage presence bring his character of Prospero to life. 
Laurie Lodewyck's portrayal of AriPI brings humor as well as exceptional acting to the already solid cast of "The Tempest." Lodewyck, a senior psychol­ogy major, has also bPen with the Not­So-lloyal Shakespearn Company since 1997. 
The $3 admission charge is also well worth the price to see the comedy of l'reshman Dan Fisher. who plays Caliban. and sophomore Kelly Hart. who plays Stephano. While their per­l'ormanccs are Pntertaining, neither· lose sight of the play as a whole. 
The Not-So-Hoyal Shakespeare Company's production of "The Tempest" will be playing tonight until Saturday at thfl J-lesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium. The shows begin at 7:30 p.m. and tickets are available at the door. General admission is $5 and for $3 for stu­dents. 
HEALTH COLUMN 
I was lucky, I recovered 
I was lucky. Many people suffer from an eating disorder for yPars before they begin to actually Pmbracc recovery. My anorexia lasted for only several months before I rm:eived help, and my total recovery was 
Anonymous
about a year.and a half. Although it was a briefpPriod, it was a 
Notre Dame
journey that has changed my life forev­student 
er. 
I was a classic case. My perfectionist tendencies and self-enforc­ing personality were the perfect seeds to breed an eating disorder because of the need for control I felt compelled to have. Like most students at Notre Dame, I was used to being at the top of my class in high school and at the center of many activities. That is where I found my control and the satisfaction I sought. through pleasing oth­ers. I never really stopped to consider if I was happy. That wasn't important because pleasing my family and friends translated into self-worth. Ironically, my parents never pressured me about grades or sporting events. My drive was completely self-induced, and I strove to be perfect. 
During my freshman year of college, I had a very hard time 
adjusting to being My recovery has definitely betwefln my personal away from home. I was relationships, which 
made me a stronger person. I 
many miles from my was also the most
have a new light on myself, a
family and friends, and ironic part. All I really manv miles from my new confidence, a new percep­wanted to do was comfort zone of being please people, and yet 
tion ofcontrol and a new 
at the top, 1felt like a I was pushing every­
energy.
lost soul wandering one away. Some days, with her? Doesn't she realize she is sickly looking? Why can't she just eat!" Well, not only does she not realize how thin she is, it is NOT about food. It is about underlying issues that manifest them in that form. My problems surfaced through compulsive exerdsing and restricting my caloric intake. I felt my sense of achievement by not eat­ing. l always kept my feelings bottled up inside and instead of talking them out with people; I took them out on food. .. 
Eating disorders are personal battles that relate to everything but actually wanting to eat. It L'> all about control. Through restric­tion I found my false sense of control. It is a cruel illusion that leads you to believe you actually have a grasp on things. In reality, my life was totally out of control. In just a few months my anorexia had completely taken over my personality and transcended the person l once was. It directed my every thought and action. Before it manifested itself physically -before it had hollowed my cheeks and jarred out my ribs -the emotional abrasions had formed. I unknow­ingly changed. I became withdrawn, and instead of thinking about what I wanted to do that weekend. I spent my timfl thinking about food. 
The worst part of my disorder was Lhat it 
began to comp 
aimlessly, struggling to find "my place." By October, I had finally adjusted to being far from home, but some­where along thfl way I had misplaced that feeling of being in control. I still felt like a failure because I was no longer one of the smartest or most athletic. I was just me ... and me just wasn't good enough. 
Food was not an issue right away. In fact, I never gave it much thought. I was always able to cat whatever, whenever, while remaining slender -until my first semes­ter at school. I learned that I was also sus­ceptible to the "freshman 15," and by December break l had gained about 10 pounds. 
Although it wasn't very noticeable, it was just another feeling of failure. I therefore made my New Year's resolution to exercise everyday and lose weight. 
Because ofmy obsessive-compulsive ten­dencies, I faithf'u.lly ran every day. Each day a little longer, pushing myself to the limit. It became a form of personal achievement and satisfaction that I hadn't felt in so long. I began to think if I couId force myself to run everyday, I could eat less too. 
Only then did food become an issue. It was like a game of self-worth. I won if I was able to skip lunch or have just a salad for dinner. I feverishly counted each calorie that entered my mouth. My motivation became to prove to my family and friends I could actually do this -that I could once again make them proud. I said I would lose weight and now l was achieving it. At least I was good at something again. Maybe a lit­tle too good. By spring break, I had lost about 20 pounds and my 5-foot-3 frame was down to 99 pounds. Naturally, my par­ents and friends were shocked when they saw me, yet I refused I had a problem. 
But they knew me too well to accept the lies and cover-ups because it was evident I had changed. I was frail both physically and emotionally, and was quiet and depressed. But the reflection I saw in the mirror was still a girl who had a few more pounds to lose before she would achiPve a magical weight that would cure all her problems and make everyone proud. My perception wa<; so bad that I did not realize I was emaciated, and an apple and a salad in one sitting seemed like a feast, an indul­gence that I was not yet worthy to enjoy. That is probably the biggest misconception with this disease. 
I always hear people say, "What's wrong 
tired and weak, l didn't even feel like getting out of bed. But I had to in order to work out, or I might gain weight, and gaining weight meant loosing control. So I pushed pC'ople away, afraid of getting hurt and loosing that control. What l really lost was a sense of emotion. 
I wound up breaking up with the person I was dating at the time because I held myself' back, afraid of any invasions into my own private world that I had created for myself, which became my life. But the more I closed people off. the more depressed I became and the more food-restricting seemed like the viable solution. It was my way to let out my "bottled up" feelings. 
After many long, emotional talks with friends and family, I finally admitted I need­ed help. I no longer wantPd to remain encapsulated. Although they wanted to help .. so desperately, in the end I was the only one who could cure myself. Friends and family can offer emotional support, but the victim must be 100 percent willing to lose the false sensation of control. Through therapy I began to find the control I was searching for in other areas of my life. I needed to speak up for myself and not allow others to walk all over me and I real­ized I don't always have to please others to .. be liked. My recovery has definitely made me a stronger person. I have a new light on myself, a new confidence, a new perception of control and a new energy. 
I actually enjoy social situations again, and my relationships with both guys and girls have greatly improved. I feel so much freer because my main goal isn't just to please others, but take care of my own needs as well. When I am sad or confused, I reflect on various parts of my life to solve the issue and not just take it out on food. Recovery is a slippery slope, however, and each day was a struggle. But with every setback I learned more about the person I wanted to become, and I realized how to use my need for control in a positive way to embrace my problems head on. Above all, 
-
the love and support of my family and friends was crucial. They made me realize they would always love and respect me unconditionally, not only because of who I was and what Ifelt, but finally for just being me. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily of The Observer. 
--------~-­
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 1 7, 2000 
-
NBA 
Bulls trade relic from Jordan era 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Toni Kukoc. the last key play­er from the Chicago Bulls' championship dynasty, was traded tu the Philadelphia 76ers on Wednesdav in a three-team deal in{olving Golden State. 
The Sixers sent Larry Hughes and Billy Owens to Golden State, which dealt a No. 1 draft pick to Chicago. The Bulls, who have stockpiled three No. 1 picks for this year in the wake of their messy breakup, also got Bruce Bowen from the Sixers and John Starks from the Warriors. 
The Sixers got a potent scor­er to complement NBA scodng leader Allen Iverson, making them a serious threat in the East. 
Sixers general manager Billy King called Kukoc "a player who has won championships and who has played with the greatest player in the league in Michael Jordan." 
While Kukoc solidifies the Sixers' position against more versatile, experienced Eastern teams, it might be short-lived. Kukoc, 31, is in the final year of his contract and the subject of an extension has yet to come up. 
"His experience will help us tremendously this season, hopefully in the playoff this year and in the future," King said. "We're not doing this just as a short-term thing. Our goal is to have Toni Kukoc finish his career here." 
The deal marked the last gasp in a glorious run for Lhe Bulls. Kukoc followed Jordan. Scottie Pippen and coach Phil Jackson out of town. 
"The only player in the histo­ry of the franchise who was untouchable was Michael Jordan," said Bulls general manager Jerry Krause, who fought back tears during a news conference in Chicago. "The rest of the athletes can be 
CLASSIFIEDS 
, 
traded. That's the way life is." 
The Sixers said Kukoc would arrive in Philadelphia on Thursday and play Friday night against Cleveland. Presumably, he will start at small forward, but coach Larry Brown was home ill and wasn't available to confirm that. 
In rect>nt wet>ks. Kukoc has said he wouldn't mind being traded. There was speculation the Lakers would acquire Kukoc and reunite him with Jackson, his former coach. 
··1 told him, 'I think you're a piece that will help us continue to go in the right direction,"' King said. 
The draft pick that goes to Chicago is Washington's pick !Pf't over from the Chris Webb<'!.' trade. If it's in the top three picks this year, the Bulls have to wait for an unprotected No. 1 pick in 2001. 
"Our hope is that with this pick, we get a player who translates into long-term suc­cess," Bulls coach Tim Hoyd said, 
Hughes, drafted eighth over­all in 1998, didn't agree with Brown or fit in the Sixers' offense with Iverson at shoot­ing guard. He was nearly dealt to Miami as part of a deal for Jamal Mashburn several weeks ago, but it fell through. 
"Trading Larry Hughes, it was difficult," King said. "When we brought him in, there were high expectations. It didn't work out probably the way we would have liked or the way Larry would have liked." 
The deal means Philadelphia has traded three of its last four No. 1 draft picks -Jerry Stackhouse, Keith Van Horn and Hughes. Iverson was the No. 1 overall pick in 1996. 
"The goal that Billy King and Larry Brown have been asked to accomplish is to win an NBA championship," team president Pat Croce said. 
"I am very excited to be com­ing to Philadelphia," Kukoc said in a statement released by the Sixers. "The team is doing well and is probably going to the playoffs, so it's exciting for me to be playing with these guys." 
Playoffs are something Kukoc knows a little about. He was with the Bulls for three of their six championships in the 1990s. which will forever be known -in Chicago and in basketball -as the Jordan era. 
Kukoc said recently, "It would be nice to play again for a tPam that has a grPat chance to win a championship." 
vVith Kukoc in Philly, the Sixers have that chance. After playing alongside Jordan in Chicago, Kukoc now will find himself playing with Iverson, the defending scoring champi­on and self-proclaimed best player in the league. 
Kukoc was sidelined with back spasms for most of the early season and only recently returned, sparking the Hulls to three straight victories. 
Bulls general manager Jerry Krause has scoffed at the notion of Kukoc returning to Europe after the season, saying the player and his family were too Americanized. Kukoc acknowledged that Krause was right, and King said he thought that was unfounded specula­tion. 
"My family, I can say, is pret­ty Americanized," Kukoc said. "Mv son has lived pretty much all" his life in Chicago, my daughter was born in Chicago, we all like Chicago. So he is half-right about that. 
"But I still like to go home in the summer, and I've never actually said 'no' to the European teams. I'm keeping those options open, but only if I can't find a team in the NBA. 
'Tm intending to stay in the NBA." 
Kukoc is averaging 18 points and 5.4 rebounds in 24 games this season, although he is shooting a career-low 23 per­cent on 3-pointers. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Rodman's antics earn him suspension, fine 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 
Dennis Rodman was sus­pended for one game and fined $10,000 Wednesday, a day after being ejected from a game an·d later saying he wanted to 
duke it out with David Stern. 
N B A 
spokesman C h r i s Brienza s a cl Rod man's 

comments Rodman about the commissioner had "absolutely nothing to do with" the pun­ishment. 
"It is for failing to leave the court in a timely manner fol­lowing an ejection and for ver­bally abusing the officials," Brienza said. 
Rodman, who has spent more time wrestling than playing basketball the last nine months, lost control of his temper with 7:13 left in just his second game with the Dallas Mavericks. 
He was hit with a technical foul for arguing a non-call, then was slapped with another when he sat down on the court in protest. A second technical meant an automatic ejection, the 23rd of his career. 
Rodman vented to the offi­cials, then stripped his jersey near midcourt, ran to the baseline and handed the shirt to a young fan. He then exited around the Mavericks bench. Dallas, which trailed by four at the time, ended up losing 112-99 to the Milwaukee Bucks. 
As he left Reunion Arena fol­lowing the game, Rodman accused Stern and the league of being out to get him. He suggested that he and the commissioner "get some damn gloves on and we go in the ring and we can see who'll come out the winner." 
Rodman, who has been throwing verbal jabs at Stern for years, was still talking about settling matters with his fists after practice Wednesday, a few hours before the sus­pension was announced. 
"I expect David Stern is going to do something, but I don't give a damn," Rodman said. "Me and David Stern need to clear our differences. Like I said last night, let's get into the ring. He gets naked, I get naked and let's go in and get it on, brother." · After the suspension was announced, Rodman said through his spokeswoman: "l don't know why all this focus is on me. I'm a competitor. I want my team to win and, yes. 1got upset. 
"But I'm being singled out only because I'm passionate about winning. I'm here in Dallas to help this team win. And, you've got to be kidding me, if everybody is really tak­ing the comments after the game seriously." 
Rodman also may be peeved at Stern for forcing him to move out of the guest house of Mavericks owner-in-waiting Mark Cuban. 
The commissioner said the arrangement violated salary cap rules even though Rodman was paying rent. He was given 72 hours to move out or the team would be heavily fined. 
Rodman's blowup against the Bucks started because he thought Milwaukee was get­ting away with playing an ille­gal defense. 
When the first technical was called, he went to the other end of the couri and sat inside the lane. He was whistled again immediately. 
NOTICES  WANTED  Seeking female roommate for 00-01 school yr Campusview Apts. Approx.$250/mo + utilities. Email lwangens@nd:edu  FOR RENT  FOR SALE  so you say you're a player The Observer's going places  
Like Miami.  
•  Are you a music lover who'd like to pick up a few extra bucks this semester? Pop in to Orbit Music at 1841 So . Bend Ave and pick up an application. Find out more about all three of our stores at www.orb1trecords.con;t. LOST AND FOUND  Childcare needed. 1 or 2 students for 20 hrs per week between 9 and 5 to watch 2 yr old & newborn tor ND prof in our home.Experience and transporta­tion required.Some flexibility in scheduling possible. Please call Rose at 289·3865 WEB DESIGNER NEEDED National Publication has opening for designer to help improve and maintain existing sites. 277-0033 • www.nkn.com  DOG-SITTER: Love dogs? Pis. help meI Need a sitter for my new puppy-esp. JPW. 1·2 aftrns/wk and Wed. nites. Call Megan @ 246-0295. Wanted 50 serious people to lose weight, safely & effectively. Natural/guaranteed www.lose-now.com or 1-800-883· 1569  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com 232·2595 6 BEDRM. '00·'01 $1200/mo. 273·0482 Available '00-01. 4-6 Student Rental House ...2 1/2 baths: lots of space; Parking Lot and Laundry ... Dave 291 ·2209  New Phone Card 886 mins. $20 258-4805 or 243-9361 Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 PERSONAL  In February. Kicking it on the beach. Or Seattle, if you're lucky. Sports--see you at CJ's at 6. happy birthday, dan. can't wait to see ycu, mom and dad.  
ANNABELLE·  ATTENTION SOUND ENGINEERS  FLINT COMPLETE PERSONNEL  B'NB REGISTRY 219·291-7153  www.thecommentator.com  who's going to be AME?  
- YOU LEFT YOUR GLASSES AND CONTACT CASE IN MY CAR WHEN I GAVE YOU A RIDE TO ND FROM THE TRAIN STATION MONDAY CALL 272-9225. If anyone has picked up an old gray knit glove I would actually pay to get it back, that is how important it is to me. Lost: silver, panoramic Minolta camera on 2/5/00. Possib!y left in Michiana taxi. Any info call Mary Ellen 284-5451  Local Sound Company has open­ings for experienced FOH engi• neers and stage hands. Call 277·0032 www.thesoundcompny.com GRAPHIC LAYOUT International racing publication has opening for computer graphics lay• out person. Looking for fresh exciting designs to improve established magazine. Flexible hours 277-0033 Editor/proof reader needed to work with writers for national publication. Flexible hours. Call 277 ·0033  SERVICES 102 N. MAIN ST SOUTH BEND FLINT IS RECRUITING FOR THE FOLLOWING PERMANENT POSI­TION INSIDE SALES REPRESENTA· TIVE Growing and Expanding Staffing Looking For Highly Motivated, Energetic Person. Must Have C/S Skills and Sales Exp. Interested Candidates Please Contact Kim (219) 233-2150  3A bdrm new home, f/p, cathedral ceilings. 3 baths, 2·car garage, family room. $1400/mo.616-683·5038 219·340-1 844 219-232-4527 HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5·bedroom, 1-bath, newly refin­ished wood floors, $1200/month. 2) 4-bedroom, 1·bath. $1000/month. 3) 3-bedroom, 1•bath. $700. We will work with you on any changes you may want made to the houses, including such things as pool tables, privacy fences, and painting. Call Bill at 675-0776.  OUTDOOR ADVENTURE INTER· SHIP1 with Idaho Whitewater Rafting Company owned by ND Grads. Learn about operating a small business, entrepreneurship, marketing, and business strategy. Plenty of time to float the rivers tool Informational meeting on Mon. 2/21 @ 12:30&3PMin 204 St. Ed's. Email Andy a aanach­man@yahoo.com or call @ 208·634-1606 with ques­tions. Maybe the Key to getting little kids to eat broccolf is to genetically engi• neer 11 to taste more like boogers. -A deep thought.. by John Steinber  CK, it's all you are you ready for another Thursday night? broccoli? Thanks for the valentines. I'll do better next year I promise. this is the best song. who sings it anyway? Does the good lite lie within? I'm going back to L.A. Or so the song says. I'm ready to go.  


-~-----------www.-----=..--.w,-...,..,w____._,_,,._w_w--.•..--.-------------------­
Thursday, February 17, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Four players score 15 as Auburn edges Vanderbilt 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 
Davmeon Fishback, Doc Rob(11son, Chris Porter and Mamadou !':'diaye P-ach scored 15 points and No. J2 Auburn finally won a game in Music City, beating Vanderbilt 86-80 Wednesday night. 
Auburn (20-4, 8-3 Southl~astern Conference) hadn't beaten Vanderbilt 06­6, 6-5) in Nashville in 10 years, losing livr~ straight games, and it looked like the skid would continue as thP. Tigers couldn'l fincl the basket early. 
When the Tigers, who trniled by as many as 10 points, final­ly warmed up, they had trou­ble putting away the Commodores. There were 11 lead changes over an 18­rninute stretch before Auburn finally took the lead for good at 66-64 on a 3-pointcr by Fishback with 6:35 to go. 
The Commodores tried to pull off another upset but couldn't stop hurting them­selves. They finished with 18 turnovers compared to jusL eight for Auburn. 
Thny got within 81 -7 8 on 
James Strong's layup with 17 seconds remaining, But Auburn, which had lost its last three SEC road games, sealed the victory with two free throws by N'diaye and a free throw and a dunk by Porter. 
Scott Pohlman added 10 points for Auburn. 
The Tigers were so cold to start the game that they hit onlv two of their first 13 shots, and Porter was the worst, missing his first five. It got so bad that Porter couldn't even roll the ball in on a layup. 
Vanderbilt couldn't miss in the first half as Dan Langhi, 

INTERESTED IN STUDENT GOVERNMENT? 
Become -the i1e:x:-t ~s:i.s-t8'II.-t S!l!ij-t;-.i.de:..--t :Dody T:re8's-.i.:re:r 
-Great resume builder 
Meet new people -Work with the "Shirt Projecf' -Learn about the Student Business 
Board 
Applications for the Assistant Student Body Treasurer position are available outside the Treasurer's Office in 314 LaFortune. 
IT1sh Eyes Sffl1l1ng 
Wlth ShaJJlTock 
EyesM 
even 1f your v1s10n 1s perfect! 
only$6992 
perpa1r 
EKdudmq reqmn-d ey(: ('xam. 
Don·t '.>hciaT't You1· Cutlt,H.t tt~u\t!') Vll1l11 Anvone-! ! ..;.:Dr~.(};ci t~ns-es. ff'.,·Bfl 1f v.:e:,i~ tvr ~~):~r:~it 1PN$O:r:S, are rn~d.K:af Ch-~y!cos o.riu ~\·;i:n.1ld IJ'nly b('. \'{~)rt: i,)t'_·jei Ir;,-;;,:_n;:,;n.:;~'{·,n ui in (''jf,1 Ca'~ p<.::~f:ior;aL Si:aH,~ (:Q{li..',S::I [,Jr.;;.~~-ff':-cl~ '.,_=,-pir:Ja,J 1,,:i:;.r1-c...tg~1nh.i:1;'. w':id: !:!lc.w re~,IJ!l ,o .'18'•!)1..;;~ (:ye :,c;.IIZ: pr,;ib.D!~)'J, St1,'lmroc¼ E'jes«• M& [>ad c.f tt1t1 9fO'f',in~ 'tnm,ly of Wi!dt'y~...--cont,,.c1 lt>n.,"''" 
Eye exams availublc by appoinment. 
Walmart Vision Center  Walmart Vision Center  
conveniently located off grape road  3701 Portage Rd.  
316 Indian Ridge Rd. Mishawaka, IN  South Bend, IN  
243-9714  243-7538  

the SEC's leading scorer, scored 10 of his game-high 25 points. Sam Howard added 14 points, while Strong finished with 12 and Anthony Williams 
had 11. . 
WIidcats 66, Tide 54 
Jamaal Magloire scored 16 points and Tayshaun Prince added 14 as No. 19 Kentucky beat injury-riddled Alabama 66-54 Wednesday night. 
The victory snapped a two­game losing streak and moved the Wildcats (18-7, 8-3 Southeastern Conference) into 
a second-plare tie with 
Florida in the SEC's Eastern 
Division, one game behind 
Tennessee. 
Freshman guard Rod 
Grizzard scored 14 of his 
second half as Alabama (11­
12, 4-7) trimmed an 18-point 
deficit to only five late in the 
game. 
The Crimson Tide shot 32 
percent from the field (l9-of­
59), hitting more 3-point bas­
kets (11) than two-pointers 
(8), They were forced because 
of injuries to play their last 
two games with only six 
scholarship players. Guard 
Schea Cotton and forward 
Sam Haginas returned 
Wednesday but were ineffec­
tive. 
Kentucky shot 41 percent 
(29-of-71) but was only 2-of­
23 from 3-point range. The 
Wildcats turned the ball over 
only six times and outre­
bounded the Tide 41-40. 
Alabama trailed 52-36 with 
11:13 to play when Grizzard scored eight points in a 13-2 run to pull the Tide within 54­49 with 2:57 remaining. 
Following a putback by Prince, Kentucky forced a shot-clock violation on Alabama's next possession. Two free throws by Magloire gave the Wildcats a 58-49 lead with 1:43 to play, and the Tide.would get no closer. 
Keith Bogans and Jules Camara each scored 10 points for Kentucky. Camara and Marvin Stone, who both missed practice time this week because of injuries, combined for 19 points, 13 

rebounds and four blocked shots. 
Grizzard was 7-of-15 from lhe field, including 4-of-8 from 3-point range, and pulled down four rebounds. Terrance Meade had 13 points and nine rebounds for the Tide. 
Orangemen 83, Panthers 62 
Etan Thomas had 21 points, 13 rebounds and nine blocked shots as No. 9 Syracuse with­stood Ricardo Greer's one-man onslaught and pulled away from Pittsburgh in the second half for an 83-62 victory Wednesday night. 
Greer had a career-high 33 points, going 6-of-11 from 3­point range, as he kept the Panthers (10-12, 2-9 Big East) in the game for the first 30 minutes before Syracuse (21-2, 10-1} got rolling !Jehind Thomas and reserve Preston 
Shumpert,  who  added  18  
points.  
Greer's 3:i points were  the  

most by a player this season against Syracuse. His previous high was 29 points this season against Norfolk Slate. 
A 3-pointer by Greer with 
13:56 to play pulled Pittsburgh to 44-41. Syracuse then went on a 25-10 run over the next 7 1/2 minutes. Shumpert started the run with a 3-pointer and a three-point play and when the run was over Syracuse had a 69-51 lead. 
Damone Brown added 11 points and nine rebounds for Svracuse, which defeated Pitt f~r the second time this sea­son. Syracuse beat Pitt 82-72 last month but had to be res­cued by reserve freshman DeShaun Williams, who scored a career-high 23 points. 
Greer scored 20 points in the first half as Syracuse struggled to a 33-29 lead. 
The Panthers played with just eight players on the bench because of a rash of suspen­sions, injuries and academic problems. 
Pitt also played the game without coach Ben Howland, who was in California for his father's emergency heart surgery. Assistant Jamie Dixon took over the team in his absence. 
Univ. Laundry annmg at the Campus Shoppes 1813 South Bend Ave. 
Monda Dollar Day Tanning Tuesda Senior Day Free Drying For Senior Citizens Wednesda Free Hot Dogs Thursda Students Free drying w/College ID 
.45¢ Drop OffAll Month Till£eh. 2.~th 
LEADERS 
Full-time college student or 
graduate. Starting salary, 
$32,000. Post offer mental and 
physical screening. 
Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for an interview 1-877-299-9397 www.MarineOfficer.com 
.... 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 17, 2000 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Blue Devils return to winning ways at home 
Associated Press 
DL:RHAM, N.C. 
No. 3 Duke wasted little time in reclaiming Cameron Indoor Stad.ium on Wednesday night. 
The Blu(1 IJevils avenged their f'irst home loss in more than thnw years in convincing fash­ion, getting 19 points from Jason Williams and 17 each from Nate James and Carlos Boozer in a I 01-68 victory over Florida State. 
"This was more of a real Cameron atmospherl', the Crazies were back to normal strength and we were up by 30," junior forward Shane Battier said. "Everything seemed right with the world." 
The Blue Devils (20-3, 11-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) inched a step closer to a record -tying l'ou rth straight ACC regular season champi­onship with their 11th const•cu­tive victory over Florida State. Duke, which tied a season high with 12 3-pointers and commit­ted only seven turnovers, can tie for the title with a win Saturday at North Carolina State. 
Duke's five starters were in double figures with 15:55 left as coach Mike Krzyzewski notched his 15th 20-win season in 20 years with the Blue Devils. 
Meanwhile, the Seminoles (9­13, 4-71 are 1-5 since beating North Carolina in Chapel Hill on Jan. 22, and have lost seven of their last nine. Nigel Dixon led Florida State with a season­high 12 points. 
Duke lost in Cameron for the first time since January 1997 -a span of 46 games -a week ago to No. 22 Maryland. But the Seminoles ran into a determined group of Blue Devils who shot 60 percent in the first half and had a 25-0 advantage on points off turnovers. 
"No matter where we're play­ing I think that you've got to be ready to play and Maryland showed us that," said senior Chris Carrawell, who added 16 points, six rebounds and six assists. "Just because you are playing at home, that doesn't 

• Transpo lion available to all 
'270011.,'1 

mean you're going to win. That's how we approached tonight." 
Florida State led the Blue Devils a month ago by two at the half in Tallahassee, Fla., but had a rough time solving Duke's prPss this time, cough­ing it up 14 times in the open­ing 20 minutes to trail 53-28 at halftime. 
"We did11'l take care of the hasketball and we had talked about that," Florida State coach Steve Hobinson said. "If you look at the stat sheet they've got :n points off of lurnovcrs. You're not going to win many hasketball games if you give them freebies like that." 
The Seminoles trailed by l 0 with 7 :49 left in the half before Duke closed with a 22-7 bar­rage as Willi.ams sr:ored seven points and James made two 3­pointers. 
NOlhing SN'med to go right for the Seminoles. Twice in the first half Duke missed foul shots, only to sec a long rebound result in 3-pointers by Mike Dunleavy and James. 
The Blue Devils made their first five shots of the second half to go up by 32 points as Robinson vanked his starters out in disgust. The Cameron Crazies then pointed to the starters on the bench and the subs on the court and chanted "Bad team, bad team." 
"When vou are behind and you're struggling you've got to do something to try to shake them up," Robinson said of his starters, who combined for only 25 points. ''I'll tell you what, our second unit played better. They were more aggressive." 
Ron Hale, the fourth-leading scorer in the ACC at 16.6 points a game, had another miserable game against Duke. He scored two points in the first meeting and seven this time around as the Seminoles suffered their third worst ACC loss. 
"'Defensively, they do a good job and they make it difficult for him," Hobinson said of his senior, who has never reached double figures against the Blue Devils. "Those are the reasons he hasn't knocked down some of" the shots he normally knocks down." 
NBA 
Wesley copes with Philis' death 
Associated Press 
C!IAHLOrfE, N.C. 
Charlotte Hornets guard David Wesley said Wednesday night ho expects to be haunted for the rest of' his life by the car crash that killed teammate B o b b y Phills. 
''Every day. Every night," Wesley said in his first intm·­view since the .Jan. 12 wreck. " From people that I've talked lo, lhey say it doesn't go away. Tim pain lessens, but there probably won't b,\ a day that I won't think about it." 
Spirnking to a group of reporters aftor the llorncts' 92­85 loss tu the Los Angeles Lakers, Wesley patiently answered qucslions about an 

accident  that  pnlice  say  
occurred  as  the  two  best  
friends were drag racing.  

Wesley and Phills had just left a shootaround at the Charlotte Coliseum and were driving their Porsr:lm coupes at speeds iu excess of 100 mph when Philis, driving behind his team• mate, lost control or his car. He sl.id into oncoming tral'lic and was struck in the driver's side door, killing him instantly. 
Wesley and the rest of Charlott<i's players and coaches stayed at lho crash site for sev­eral hours, trying to console each oth<•r while waiting for police to finish their on-scene investigation and extricate Philis' body from his mangled car. 
Wesley, who has been chargPd with two misdemeanor trailic offensfis, said his mission now is to try to cope with the heartache of losing someone with whom he shared so much. 
"In the course of a dav, it's going lo bring everything· back to me," hci said. "Am I going to quit baskethall? No. Am l going to stop playing golf'' No. Am I going to stop driving my Porsche? No. Those things are all things that are going to bring it back." 
Wesley said he has made one significant change since the crash. usually one of the Hornets' most outgoing players. he has found himself shying away from fans. Some of' I.hem, Wesley said, have showered him with what he described as less-than-supportive remarks. 
As a result, he is signing less autographs and talking to less members of the public, two practir:es he hopes to eventual­ly change. 
At several stages during the interview, Wesley pausP.d, took a deep breath and exhaled slowly as he gathered his thoughts. One such instance came when he talked about the support he has received from members of Phills' family, including his parents and his widow, Kendall. Philis' family members have told him Lhey don't blame him for the fatal crash, Wesley said. 
·A Festival of Films on Africa and the African Diaspora 
20 February-29 February 2000 Sponsored by The African and African-American Studies Program Screenings and Related Events 
Sunday, 20 February 2000 
3.30 
p.m.-Hesburgh Center Auditorium Opening Ceremony and Reception featunnita dance performance by Yakhub Kouyate and his M,andi Djalli Group. 

4.30 
p.m.-Hesburgh Center Auditorium Sankofa, by Haile Gerima from Ethiopia. 1993 (125 mins} 


Monday, 21 February 2000 
4.15 p.m.-Hesburgh Center Auditorium Warrior Marks, by Pratibha Parmar and Alice Walker, 1993 (54 mins.) 
7.00 p.m.-Hesburgh Center Auditorium Pieces d'ldentite. by Mweze Ngangura, 1998 (94 mins.). 
Tuesday, 22 February 2000 
4.15 p.m.-Hesburgh Center Auditorium Women With Open Eyes, by Anne-Laure Folly. 1994 (52 mins.). 
7.00 p.m.-Hesburgh Center Auditorium La Genese (Gene!\is), by Cheick Oumar Sissoko, 1998 (f02 mins. ). 
Wednesday, 23 February 2000 
4.15 p.m.-Hesburgh Center Auditorium Frosh, by Dayna Goldfine and Dan Geller, 1993 (98 mins.). 
7.00 p.ln.-Hesburgh Center Auditorium Shattering the Silences, by Stanley Nelson and Gail Pellett, 1997 (86 mins.). 
Thursday, 24 February 2000 
4.15 p.m.-Hesburgh Center Auditorium La Tele Dans Les Nuages (Head in the Clouds), by Jean-Marie Teno. 1999 (52 mins.). 
7.00 p.m.-Hesburgh Center Auditorium Cry the Beloved Country, hy Darell Rood!, 1995 (94 mins.). 
Friday, 25 February 2000 
4.15 p.m.-C I 03/Hesburgh Center · Behind These Walls: Mumia Abu-Jamal and the Long Struggle for Freedom, by Jules Buerjes and Heike Kleffner, 1996 (70 mins.). 
Sunday, 27 February 2000 
7.00 p.m.-Hesburgh Center Auditorium Rlack Athena, by Bandung File, 1991 (52 mins.) 
Monday. 28 February 2Q!IO 
4.15 p.m.-1-lesburgh Center Auditorium A Son of Africa. by AIrick Riley. 1996 (28 mins.). 
7.00 p.m.-Hesburgh Center Auditorium 0 Tl'stamento Do Sl'nhor Napumot·eno (Napumocl'no's Will), hy Francisco Manso, 1998 (110 mins.). 
Tuesday, 29 February 2Q!lli 
4.15 p.m.-He.,burgh Center Auditorium 
La Petite Vendeuse De Soleil (Th1: Little Girl Who Sold the Sun). by DJibril Diop Marnbety. 1999 (45 mins.). 
Art Exhibition 
An Art pxhihition sponsored by Thiam Collection (Senegal) will he held in conjunction with the Film Festival. It will be IStcatsaJ in the )0 hbv of thx He~byrgh Librarv frorn Monday, 21 Fxhruarx Lhrough Frid&lY, 2~ Februarv 2000 
, Co-Sponsors 
Anthropology Department-Campus Ministry-Center for Civil anti Human Rights/Law School-Center for Social Concerns-College of Business A<lministn11ron-E11glish Department-Film, Television & Theatre Department-Gender Studies Progrnen-Govcrnment & International Studies Program-History Department-Honors Program-Joan B. Kroc Institute ro7 International Pea..:e Studies-Multicultural Student Affairs-Philosophy Department-President's Office-Romance Languages Departenent-Snite Museum of Art-Sociology Department-Theology Department 
Thursday, February l. 7, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

student union HAPPENINGS 

$TUPENI UNfQN BQARQ 
m m an 
n rm a •­
The Bone Collector. 2/17. Thursday. 101 DeBartolo. 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 2/18. Friday. 101 DeBartolo. 0800PM & 1030PM. 2/18. Saturday. 101 DeBartolo. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 2/17. Thursday. Lafortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. Sophomore Literary Fest Thursday. Washington Hall. 0800PM. Vertical Horizon/Stroke 9 -U93 & SUB. 3/1. Wednesday. Stepan Center. 0800PM. $14 with student ID. Lafortune Box Office. $16 for general. 
CJF 2/23. Wednesday. Lafortune Ballroom. 0730PM. FREE. 2/25-2/26. Friday/Saturday. Stepan Center 0730P 
HPC fHALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL) 
Date Week Pangborn/Fisher Game Night 2/21. Monday. Pangborn Hall. 0700PM-0000AM. Carroll/Badin Skating Fiesta 2/21. Monday. JACC 1100PM-0100AM. $1 Movie 2/21. Tuesday. Movies 16-Chippewa. Sponsored by Keough and Welsh. Cavanaugh/Keenan Karaoke 2/21. Tuesday. North Quad. 0300PM-0S00PM. St. Ed's/Walsh Game Watch 2/23. Wednesday. Walsh Basement. 0700PM. Siegfried/PW Battle of the Sexes Trivia -2/23. Wednesday. Siegfried Hall. 0800PM. McGlinn/Sorin Twister Tournament 2/23. Wednesday. McGlinn Hall. 0930PM. Diversity Celebration 2/23. Wednesday. Hesburgh Auditorium. 0700PM. Sponsored by Farley. PE's Snow Party 2/23. Wednesday. Mod Quad. 0300-0S00PM. Dinner from La Esperanza and Ballroom Dance Lessons 2/23. Wednesday. LaFortune Ballroom. 0700PM. Sponsored by Howard, Morrisey, and Lyons. O'Neill's King of Mardi Gras Contest 2/24. Thursday. O'Neill Hall. 0700PM. Knott Hall Poker Night 2/24. Thursday. Knott Hall. 0900-0000AM. Sexual Chocolate band playing 2/24. Thursday. Dillon. 0900PM-1100PM. Lewis Hall Dinner and Philosopher on Love 2/24. Thursday. Lewis Party Room. 0S00PM. Professor O'Connor speaking. Zahm Winter Carnival 2/26. Saturday. North Quad. ALL DAY. Zahm Singled Out 2/26. Saturday. North Quad. Alumni Pre-CJF Pizza Party. 
2/26. Saturday. ALL WEEK FESTIVITIES.•• Yesterday's -free dessert per couple Papa Vino's -free appetizer/dessert per couple Beacon Bowl -girl's bowl 2 games free with the purchase of 2 guy's games Chuck E. Cheese -free drinks for every couple 
CLASSES. 
2002. 
Resume Fair. 
2/16. Wednesday. 129 DeBartolo. 0700PM. 
Trip to Chicago. 
2/19-2/20. 
2003. 
Class Trip to Chicago. 
4/15. On Sale. $8 at Anthony Travel. 
JUDICIAL COUNCIL. 
Information Meeting for those interested in running for Class Office: Sun., Feb. 20, Student Government Office. 
STUDENT UNION TREASURER. 
Congratulations to the New Student Union Treasurer, Katie Reicher! Applications for the position of Assistant Treasurer are available in the Student Government Office. 
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT. 
Congratulations to the new Safe Ride Coordinator, Dave Powers! Student t-shirts will be available at the next two Men's Basketball Home Games. 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February I 7, 2000 
NHL 
Vernon shuts out Rangers with 24 saves for Panthers 
Associated Press 
SUNRISE, fla. 
Mike Vernon had 24 saves to narn his first shutout of the season Wednesday night as the Florida Panthers heat the New York Hangers. 
Vernon, who has 23 shutouts in 14 sea­sons. made a stick save to stop a break­away by Petr Nedved and preserve a 2-0 lead with 13 minutes to play. The Panthers added a late goal to improve to 21-5-2 at home. 
Vernon's last shutout came at Phoenix on Feb. 8, 1999. 
The Panthers scored tlrn lone goal in the first period. Pavel Hurc's slap shot from just outside the right circle deflected off the stick of New York defenseman Mathieu SchnPider and past Mike Richter. 
It was Bure's 41st goal of the season. 
Florida m1tde it 2-0 with a power-play goal at 1525 of the second. The Hangers' Valeri Kamensky, bleeding badly after taking a puck to the face, was off with an interference penalty after he grabbed Peter Worrell's stick. 
The Panthers scored 31 seconds into the man advantage on Ray Sheppard's one-ti1rn~r past Hichter. Worrell set up the goal, tipping Dan Boyle's pass from just inside the blue line to Sheppard, who was wide open in the slot. 
The Rangers went nine minutes with­out a shot to end the second period. Though Richter made several good saves Nstopping breakaways by Bure and Oleg Kvasha in the third period -he couldn't keep Scott Mellanby from scoring from point-blank range. 
Richter. who made 24 saves, stopped Mellanby's first shot with just more than 12 minutes to play, but Meltanby back­handed the rebound in to give Florida a 3-0 lead. The goal was Mellanby's 12th of the season but first in 15 games. 
Redwings 5, Canucks 2 
Steve Yzerman scored two goals as the Detroit Red Wings won for the fourth straight time, beating the Vancouver Canucks Wednesday night. 
Sergei Fedorov, Brent Gilchrist and Brendan Shanahan also scored for the Red Wings. who moved within a point of idle SL Louis for first place in the Central Division. 
Andre"'· Cassels and Todd Bertuzzi scored for the Canucks, who have lost two straight and five of seven. Vancouver is in last place in the Northwest Division. 
Chris Osgood made 30 saves for Detroit and Garth Snow stopped 32 shots for Vancouver. 
Yzerman went 11 games without a goal bpfore scoring twice in the first period. He skated in between the circles with a 
pass from Pat Verbeck and lifted a shot over Snow, who was falling, just 4:26 in. 
Yzerman scored again on a power play at U:49. His shot from the right circle went through the legs of teammate Tomas Holmstrom -parked in front of the net -and past Snow. 
Fedorov made it 3-0 with 20.9 seconds left in the first when he skated in with a pass from Igor Larionov. pulled up just outside of the right goal post and /lipped tho puck into the net. 
Gilchrist had the lone go1tl of the sP.c­ond period with a backhander from the right circle on a partial breakaway at 
15:02. It was Gilchrist's first goal in his second game this season. Gilchrist missed 56 games with a severe groin and thigh injury. 
Cassels spoiled Osgood's bid for his sec­ond shutout in three starts by converting a cross-ice µass from Markus Naslund on a power play 7: 17 into the third. 
Candadiens S, Thrashers 1 
Turner Stevenson scored two goals Wednesday ni){ht as the Montreal Canadiens beat Atlanta, handing the Thrashers their 11th straight loss. 
The expansion Thrashers. the NHL's worst team at 11-40-6, are winless in 15 games and have not won since beating Philadelphia on Jan. 14. 
Montreal won its third straight and earned a point for the 13th time in 15 contests. 
With only 11 se<;onds remaining in the second period, Shayne Corson scored the go-ahead goal with a sweeping shot from the bottom of the left circle. Corson's goal, his fourth, was the game's only power-play score. 
Stevenson, who put Montreal up 1-0 with his fourth goal 10:08 into the sec­ond, gave the Canadiens a 3-1 cushion with 10:38 remaining. Follo.,.,ing Francis Bouillon's slap shot from beyond the top of the right circle, Stevenson ripped the ricocheted puck past rookie goalie Scott Fankhouser from the middle of the left circle. 
Sergei Zholtok scored a team-high 18th goal with 6:27 remaining, and Patrick Poulin, who took a game-high live shots, 
ended the scoring with 
4:41 to go with his eighth goal. 
Penguins 1, Sabres 1 
Alexei Kovalev scored late in the third period to give the Pittsburgh Penguins a tie with Buffalo on Wednesday night, keeping the Sabres 

KAP Photo New York Rangers goalie Mike Vernon earns one of his 24 saves Wednesday night against the Florida Panthers. Vernon had the first shutout of his career 
with the victory. 
for nearly four years. 
Dominik I-Iasek improved to 2-0-3 since returning on Feb. 1 from a groin injury that caused him to miss 40 games. 
BulTalo is 0-7 -3 in Pittsburgh since win­ning on March 23, 1996. In their last 20 visits, the Sabres are 1-15-4. Hasek is 1­6-2 in his last nine road games against the Penguins. 
Kovalev. who scored at 14:37 after Robert Lang won a faceo!T, grabbed the loose puck and whipped a quick shot past Hasek's left shoulder for his second goal 
in the last 18 games. Buffalo registered the only shot in a cautiously played overtime. 
Geoff Sanderson scored on a power play at 19:38 of the second period. Brian Holzinger was able to pass the puck just before he was knocked down by Penguins defenseman Darius Kasparaitis. Sanderson took the pass, skated down right wing and put in a shot off Jean­Sebastien Aubin's glove. 
Aubin had not allowed a goal in eight consecutive periods on home ice. 
?lwed, ~°'4, Sµ,ut ... l'I e~ol ~ ~odlf. &~ '[)UIJIUWt A~7ai/t "l~15-17, 2000 llam--4fu,t,, 'l>odq, 1::fUJHI, at, ,/.a,"l~ 
COORDINATOR OF YOUTH MINISTRY NEEDED 
FOOD AND EXERCISE
-Coordinator of youth ministry needed in a 
suburban, 2500-family parish in Baton Rouge, La. Ministry will include recruitment, development and training of volunteer youth workers and col­
WEIGHING 
laborali ve work with a large parish staff. The ideal candidate will possess a minimum of three years' experience in worbng with teenagers, and a 

YOU[) 
degree in theology, youth ministry, pastoral stud­ies, communications, guidance, or the equivalent 
0 
in education and/or experience. Benefits included. 
w 
-Send resume and references no later than March 
N 
,
1, 2000 to: 
0 
•
St. Thomas More Catholic Church 114I Goodwood Blvd. Baton Rouge, LA 70815 
GET WITH THE PROGRAMI 
or Fax us at (225)275-1407 Aun: Falher John Carville Email address: STM02@compuserve.com. 
winless in Pittsburgh For more information, contact: University Health Services 631-8286 I University Counseling Center 631-7336 RecSports 631-5965 
Thursday, februarv 17, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS pag~ 21 
Troy Murphy isn't the only All­in March don't rest solely on in early March is, in fact, wal­Consider that the junior var­American basketba!I player on the final live regular-season lowing in obscurity. With the sity cheerleaders and the JV
Chorney 
r.ampus and neither David · games of the men's basketball exception of Ruth Riley, who leprechaun cheer the women's 

continued from page 28 Craves nor Matt Carroll are team's schedule or the Uig has perhaps the most recogniz­team on. While the JV squad is Notrn Dame's best 3-point East tournament. able face on campus, they are certainly as capable as the shooters on campus. The best hope that Irish fans relatively unknown. varsity squad, the message Contrary to popular belief, Irish fans' hopes for playing have for cutting down the nets They are the fifth-ranked that's sent is that the women's women's basketball team in team is a "second-class" sport the country yet they are face­undeserving of the same luxu­less, nameless point-scorers ries as first-class ~ports like delivering victory after victory. football and men's basketball. Have you ever seen Alicia Consider that television vir­natay? Can you name the tually ignores them or how team's five starters'? much less frequently I see Can you name tive players'? Ruth Riley than Troy Murphy. The answer from a majority Now consider that Hiley was of Domers would be a an integral part in helping her resounding team win 18 shrug of the in a row. shoulders or, We're fortunate more games 
from some of than
enough to have the
the male mem­Murphy's 
bers of our opportunity to watch helped his 
family, a chau­one of the best teams team win all 
vinistic com­year.
in the country and yet
ment about the Readers of mer.its of we often waste it. this column women's bas­will note· that ketball. I'm not 
It's odd to attempting to think that such demean the a successful team could be ·men's team in any way. I'm as such an enigma but such is life avid of a supporter as possible. for these women. It baffles me, though. Why 
While their success has filled don't we support the women's the usual sea of empty, the team more'? student section remains We're fortunate enough to empty. have the opportunity to watch 
Don't get me wrong, fans one of the best teams in the are beginning to take notice. country and yet we often waste 
Most of these newfound it. fans, though, are either elder­Tuesday night's home game ly couples reminiscing of days against Miami is your last when basketball was played chance to watch and support below the rim and improvisa­what currently ranks as the tion was never part of a set most successful basketball play or young girls hoping to team in Notre Dame history. someday play on the same Don't let this opportunity court in front of the same pass you by. empty seats. Let's face it, Ruth Riley's, 
The students stay at home. Alicia Ratay's and top-five 
It's not just the lack of stu­teams only come around once dent attendance, though, that in a while. causes the women's team to continue to wallow in obscuri­The views expressed in this ty. column are those of the author 
There are institutional prob­and not necessarily those of lems too. The Observer. 

Cocoa Beach $180 RT London $336 RT Los Angeles $282 RT 
--c---------­
South Beach $180 RT Paris $383 RT San Francisco $282 RT
---~ 
San Diego $282 RT Rome $464 RT Las Vegas $314 RT Cancun $500 RT ISLAND FUN! 
Major Scheduled Airlines. 
GREAT ONE WAY FARES Honolulu $644 RT 
Overnight Ticket Delivery Available. 
AVAILABLE! San Juan $466 RT 
Choose your Own Flights.
South Padre Island $224 RT
Special Hotel and Car Rental Rates, too. 
Book your Discount Travel at: 
cheaptickets.com or call 888-988-8408 
PHONE RESERVATIONS Mon -Fri 8am to 2am • Sat -Sun 8am to 11 pm Airfares are not guaranteed until ticketed. Fares may be non-refundable and may have an advance purchase. Fares do not include $3-$12 airport passenger facility charges where applicable and tax segment fee of $2.50 per takeoff/landing; lares to Alaska and Hawaii do noi include departure taxes up to $17, international taxes. fees, and surcharges up to $95. Fares are subject to: change, holiday or seasonal supplements; blacl<out dates, availability and other restrictions. 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS· Thursday, February 17, 2000 
GOODWILL GAMES 
Winter sports games once again center in Lake Placid 
Assoc,a ted Press 
LAKE PIACID, N.Y. 
Jt has been nearly 20 years since Mike Eruziune rocked the Olympic Ice Arena with his game-winning goal against the Russians in the 1980 Winter Olympics. On Wednesday night, the old place rocked again on tho eve of the inaugural Winter Goodwill Games. 
With about 6.000 att(~nding the opeuing ceremony aL the his­toric rink. Bruce Hornsby, Edwin !VlcCain and th!:l Crane School of Music Symphony Orchestra and Chorus paid a musical tribute to the theme of t11e games: "The Power of..Sµorts." 
The Winter Goodwill Games. to be staged over the next four days, were being hailed as the biggest event here since the Winter Olympics that made Eruzionc and speedskater Eric Hdden household names. With the newest bobsled-luge-skele­ton track in the world ready for its first competition, the village remained hopeful of a return to prominence as an important 
Like to write? Work for sports. Call 1-4543. 


20 years of blessings and memories. Join us in wishing David a Happy Birthday Love from Mom, Dad, Kelli (ND 99) and Mike 

ON NATIONAL TOUR -PERFORMED BY THE ACTING COMPANY . TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2000 • 7:30 p.m. SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE • O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
For ticket information contact the 
f&~ 
Saint Mary's box office 284-4626 ~~=l=.. 
winter sports host. 
"I can't help but feel a tremen­dous sense of pride," New York <iov. George Pataki said in open­ing remarks. "Once again, the eyes of the world are centered on Lake Placid." 
The festivities also included a tribute to Sarajevo, the war-torn city that played host to the 1984 Winter Olympics an<l was hoping to stage the second Winter Goodwill Games in 2003. 
"Lake Placid and Sarajevo shart> a history of Olympic cities," said Muhamed Sacirbey, ambassador to the United Nations for Bosnia and Herzegovina. "Bul unfortunate­ly, our paths diverged. Sports and national competition pro­vide hope and also mean an opportunity to rebuild our cities." 
Despite the glee of the evening. snow, of all things, threatened to create a little havoc for the games. Nearly 2 feet has slammed thfl area around this picturesque Adirondack Mountain village since Monday. 
The snow and bank after 
bank of low-hanging clouds forced o1Iicials to cancel down­hill training 011 Wednesday for thfl second straight day because of poor visibility, Only one train­ing run was slated for Thursday morning before th" first race. 
"VVe kept say­ing in Nov-ember and Decemb"r, when we were begging for it, where is it, where's the snow?" said Sandy Caligiore, media relations director for thfl New York State 
Olympic Hegional Development Authority (ORDA), which oper­ates the winter sports venues in the region. 'Then we said, 'We know when it's coming.· And .sure enough, that's wli"en it came." 
Competition also wiJJ be held in luge, skeleton, bobsled, figure skating, short track speedskat-
TRY OUR NEW ITALIAN (HICK'N CRISP FOR ONLY 99¢. 
(LET'S JUST SAY THE EXCHANGE RATE 
IS IN YOUR FAVOR.) 
"We 're in the business 
$20,000. 
ofputting on world Having playAd host to
events, and we will 
two Winter
make it happen. " 
Olympics, Lake 
Placid was 
ready for

Ted Blazer 
whatever
ORDA president 
ing, snowboarding, cross-coun­
try skiing, Nordic combined, ski jumping, and freestyle.skiing. 
Morn snow was predicted for Friday and Saturday, and there was no room to push back the downhill races, which carry the top Orsi-place prize of 
Mother Nature 
had in store. 
"There are contingency plans," ORDA presid1rnt Ted Blazer said. "We're in the busi­ness of putting on world events, and we will make it happen.'' 
More than 100 workers -and a few athletes -were busy cart­ing snow off the skiing and snowboard venues at Whiteface Mountain. Crews also were busy sweeping off and grooming the new track at Mount Van Hoevenberg. 
"The snow has affected prac­ticing," said snowboarder Rob Kingwill, who also had to cope with the brief loss of the U.S. team's equipment on the way here from LakA Tahoe. "But we're pretty excited to be here." 
Blawr said more than 40,000 tickets had been sold as of Wednesday. Figure skating, ,-vhich will feature such former Olympic stars as Nancy Kerrigan, Katarina Witt, Dorothy Hamill, Oksana Baiul and Victor Petrenko, was commanding the most attention. Saturday night's finals already were close to a stlllout, but organizers were hoping for strong walkup sales for all events. 
The winter games, which also are scheduled to be staged in 2003, 2005 and 2007 by Turner Sports, are an extension of the Summer Goodwill Games creat­ed i.n 1986 by Ted Turner. 


99¢ 
THE NEW ITALIAN CHICK'N CRISP AT BURGER KING~ 
You don't have to travel far to enjoy a little taste of Italy. Introducing the delicious Italian Chick'n Crisp sandwich at BURGER KING® restaurants. Tender, juicy, all-white-meat chicken topped with mozzarella cheese and zesty marinara sauce. Right now just 99¢. 
The Huddle • LaFortune Student Genier Price and parlicipatian may vary. 

........ 
w 
-
Thursday, February 17, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 


-
MEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish at their best this season 
The divers will be led by team's experience as a bene­
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
junior Herb Huesman, who fit going into the meet. 
Spam Writer 
helped fuel the team's win "In the last three dual over Oakland. Huesman meets, we were getting better Heading into the Big East hopes to qualify for the NCAA every week," he said. "We Championships this weekend. 
Championships after surgery have every reason to believe the Notre Dame men's swim­last fall forced him to be red­we'll do even better at the 
ming team knows that any­shirted and watch the Big Big East. We have a verything is possible, especially East meet from the stands. experienced team. All of our after last year's second-place The team will be looking seniors are going to the meet 
finish to perennial men's for repeat performances and there are four or five 
swimming powerhouse, the from junior Dan Szilier. juniors also. We have a lot of University of Pittsburgh. 
defending Big East champion experience on our side,The team won its last three in the 200-yard breaststroke which should help us make a . 
meets of the season against 
and sophomore Jonathan strong showing."
Cleveland State, Oakland and Pierce, defending Big East The Irish will face 
a Feb. 5 win over St. 
champion in the 1,650 Pittsburgh, who will be look­
Bonaventure.· Ending the sea­freestyle, ing to win their fourth son with a 5-4 record, coach 
After winning the 200-yard straight Big East title. 
Tim Welsh is optimistic about 
backstroke in Notre Dame's Among other teams.in the what the meet will hold for 
last duel meet, junior Brian conference, competition will his team. 
Skorney could also be a fac­be close since there is not 
"We think we have gotten 
tor this weekend. Also, one team that stands out better each week since 
junior Ryan Verlin who fin­among the rest as far as tal­Christmas," Welsh said. ished strong in the butterfly ent goes, said Welsh. 
"We're at our best going into even t over St. Bonaventure "Pittsburgh· will definitelythe Big East meet this week­needs to turn in a solid per­be the favorite to repeat as 
end and our continued formance, 
conference champion," said 
improvement each week will How well the team per­Welsh. "But the field will be 
be a big help. 
forms will depend on the very competitive. Miami, St. 
"These conference champi­
consistency among the John's, those are all teams onships are a time to cele· team's individuals. that will be in the hunt. brate the season. We just 
"Our success at the meet "After Pittsburgh, how want to go and celebrate all 
will depend on balance," everyone else finishes will 
of our hard work. We're 
Welsh said. "We need to be just depend on who swims looking forward to swimming consistent in every event to the best. It's just a matter of faster than we ever have.·• 
do well." who swims the best." 
Key events for the Irish will 
Team captain and senior Fitzpatrick is optimistic
be in diving, breast stroke, Ray Fitzpatrick agreed. about competing againstdistance freestyle events and 
"It's going to require a total favorite Pittsburgh.the 400-yard individual med­
team effort," Fitzpatrick said. "We have strong guys in ley, said Welsh. 
"Everyone has to have a the sprints," said Fitz­
"I think those will be strong great meet. Having the most patrick. ''I'm not too worried events for us," said Welsh. 
balance possible is what I about Pittsburgh. They're"We're looking for a big 
think would bring us close to good competitors but I think I 
improvement in diving as 
winning the title." have what it takes to beat 
well." 
Fitzpatrick also cited the those guys." 
.. 
Swim 
continued from page 28 
lrokc leg of the 400-rnedlcy relay, also a Big East record for Notre Dame. 
But pushing from the under­class ranks will also be a few solid cornpcl.itors lhal will be critical to tlrn final point tally. 
Five-timn Big East champion Carrie Nixon should be an unstoppable l'orcn in the sprint 
evnnts.  as  well  as  a  critical  
relay link.  
"Ni.xon  will  be  the  must  

important in the meet," Weathers said. "Her perfor­mances are critical." 
And while a three-year buildup and an undel'r,ated 2000 dual meet nrt.:ord puts some con!'idence in their races, there will be little room for error with two-year runner up Villanova and conference force Miami knocking on the door. 
"We're anticipating our best swims of the year, but we expect Miami and Pittsburgh to be very good," Weathers said. "It's different than a dual meet because you can't change the lineup." 
While the pre-meet planning must be set in stone, that doesn't mean that any perfor­mance is final. 
"They spread themselves out throughout the competition," he said, "but one is usually a little bit off from the meet. That gives us the open door to be success­
ful." 
But with the possibility of a four-.peat looming in the dis­tance, that success would be a little bit sweeter. 
"That's our goal," Weathers said. 
Got sports? Call 1-4543. 
t 
Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 TONIGHT and EVERY THURSDAY tor 
DO®@[~t[J[1@[ID@0~ COLLeGe n1GHT 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
TE 
$1 Co•.1.ER (with college I.D., must be 21)
V ~ and lots of other stuff for a buck, too. 
222 S. Michigan• South Bend• (219) 234-5200 Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 2st-2568 More pictures online every week at www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 
Make no mistake, Chicago Steakhouse serves amazing steaks, pasta, salads and more that seem like they should be pricey 
(but aren't) and features a fun, casual atmosphere you don't have to get dressed up for (unless you want to). Great for 
irt a'lld the ArttGhOk6~ 
F1ZI'-7AY Z/\8 
groups, too. 
222 S. Michigan• South Bend• 219.234.5200
The TubllF«tftY 
www.aceplaces.com/heardand 
page 24 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, february 17, 2000 
• 
Calendar of Events 
Freshman Retreat #28 (Mar. 3-4) Sign-Up 
Monday, February 14 through Monday, February 28, 103 Hesburgh Library Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Howard, Keough, Knott, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, and Sorin 
Senior Retreat #2 (Mar. 31-Apr~;J.l Sign-Up 
Monday, February 14 through Friday, March 24 103 Hesburgh Library 
overview of Natural Family Planning 
Thursday, February 17, 7:00-8:30 p.m. Montgomery Theatre, Lafortune , Co-sponso,ed by the Office of Gampus Ministry and The Natural Family Program of~t; Joseph County 
Marriage Preparation Retreat••!;~" 
Monday, February rn,19 ; . Fatima Retreat Center , 
.J''i 
Junior Parents' Weekend Mess 
Sunday, February 19, 5:30 pm Joyce Center 
Confirmation -Session #9 Thursday, February22, 7:0,Q--S;'.,Q pri). Siegfried Hall Chapel . (Part 2) We live Wt)et we,f:fl')~eve The Virtues· TheT~ Cornrti"ndtnentS\;i $ociaf,.~~;~ti(:~ . 
Campus Bible St1.1dy /. ,> . , c, 
Tuesday, February22, 7:00p1n, BadioHalt.Ch,;1~.I,% · 
Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday, February 23, 8:00 pm, Wilson Comnmns 
Walsh,HaU 
6-part cl engage 
Thursda Montgo Co-Spon· The Natu 
Fee: $12 To register 

Seventh Sunday of Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, February 19 Mass 
5:00 p.m. 
Rev. James F. Flanigan, C.S.C 
Sunday, February 20 Mass 

10:00 a.m. Rev. David J. Scheidler, C.S.C 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas P. Doyle, C.S,C. 
Scripture Readings for This Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  Is 43:18-19, 21-22, 24b-25  
2nd Reading  2 Cor 1:18-22  
Gospel  Mark 2:1-12  

It's Not Too Late! Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Listen, gang, it's not too late. It's not too late for all of us to make something of our year. It's not too late for you First Year stu­dents out there to meet new peopl~. It's not too late for you Sophomores and Juniors out there to find new and creative ways to party. It's not too late for you Seniors out there to make something of your remaining days, and to maximize that which you take away from this place. It's not too late for all of us to make more of our efforts in faith and in prayer. Listen, it's not too late; but it will be if we don't choose to do something about it now. 
I will say it simply: if you leave the University of Notre Dame without addressing some of the bask questions of faith, then we~ as a university and as mentors and guides, will have failed; but, as importantly, you will have too. Whether you came here because Notre Dame is a Catholic university, is not the point. The fact is, it is, and if you do not learn something more about your faith while you are here, whether you are Catholic or not, then there's something wrong. The thought that there are those who make no effort to move from the faith of their parents to a personal and adult relationship with God, is perhaps the saddest reality that we face. But it's not too late. 
I find myself wanting to say that if you're only going to Mass on Sunday because you know your parents expect you to, then think about that. And if you're not going to Mass on Sunday because your parents aren't here to tell you that you have to, then think about that, too. The fact is, the time in life has come for you to make your own choices and to make sense of your own faith. But these choices cannot be made only in response to your parents, whether in the affirmative or the negative. Ultimately, they must be made in response to God, and to the stirrings of the Spirit in your life and in your relationships. And if it's the case that you have no idea what that means, or what God might be saying to you, then maybe it's because you haven't stopped to listen, or even learned to listen. But it's not too late. 
There are any number of ways to be about the business of learning more about our faith and deepening in our relationship with God. One of them is to enter into dialogue and inquiry about your faith with those around you, including your friends, the University faculty, the CSC and Campus Ministry staff members. The other is to take time for prayer. Whether it be in the context of a liturgy or not, take time to pause once in a while in the presence of God. And don't underestimate the power of the Eucharist and the importance of entering to the communal celebration of it. It is no longer about your parents. It's about you. It's about your becoming whom you will long be. It's about attending to the mat­ters of the heart and soul as much as, in this place, we attend to the matters of the mind. 
I know what you're thinking: I don't have time for all of that. Let me assure you that you don't have enough time not to! Life is slipping by. Notre Dame, even for the youngest among you, is slip­ping away (Just ask the Seniors!). Let's get at the questions that really matter. You know full well that you will waste all kinds of time this weekend. Waste some of it with God! I marvel at how much time we spend in idle, even trite, conversation, or in front of a vjdeo game, or perched in front of a television, or drinking, simply drinking. Rarely in those settings do we get at the stuff that mat­ters, the stuff of life, the stuff of faith, the heart of God. It's not too late to make something of our year. It's not too late to take owner­ship of our faith. It's not too late to know that there is no greater love than that of our God for us. But in the end, it's up to you. Take the time; make the time! It's not too late! 
I¦
(DMPUStv11NISTRY 

Thursday, February 17, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Foul trouble forces Belles into fourth straight loss 
with two fouls play defense well
"We need to get
By KATIE MCVOY five minutes enough to stop Spores Write,· into the game. some fire." that." At the 10-Anderson shot 57 Th() Saint Marv's basketball min ute mark percent from the
Julie Norman 
tPam's clTorts· fell short starters field. The Belles
Belles starter
Tunsday night as it lost to Krist,rn Matha only shot 26 per-Andnrson University 78-58 at and Anne Blair cent from the field. 
O.C. Lewis Gymnasium. also had two With three min­
The Anderson Hav,rns fouls earh. utes left to play in the game, snappnd a ·12-gamc losing Halfway through the first half the Belles onlv trailed 66-58. streak with the win, while the Anderson went on a 17-2 run, However, they did not score Bcllos lost their fourth in a taking the game from a dose. again. row. two-point lead to a score of 39-The Belles took control under 
ThP Uclles got into roul trou­22. The lirst half ended with their own basket, but were out­ble early in the first half ol' the Anderson on top 41-25. re bounded by the Ravens game. .Junior starter Julie "Anderson shot incredibly defensively 34-15. Norman lrnaded to tlH' bench well." Norman said. "We didn't Matha and Mary Campione 


led the Saint Mary's offen­sive with 12 points each. Shaun Russell and Anne Blaire did their part with .. nine and eight points, respectively. 
Matha also led the defense with eight of the Belles' 32 rebounds. 
Saint Mary's will play its final regular season game on Saturday at home against conference com­petitor Adrian College. 
The Belles are looking to recover from the loss to Anderson and win on Saturday. 
"Tuesday's game was dis­couraging, but we're hop­ing to rebound and play well against Adrian," Norman said. 
Saint Mary's is currently in eighth place in the MIM and is hoping to remain ahead of Olivet College, who is ranked No. 9. lf the Belles remain in eighth place, they will start confer­ence tournament play on Monday by hosting Olivet at home. 
"We need to get some fire," Norman said. 
VIOLENCE--FREE IN THE JUBILEE: 
A SERIES OF LECTURES ON BUILDING 
PEACEINY2K 


ANNE PARRY 
Institute for Choosing Nonviolence February 17, 2000, 7pm at the CSC Topic: Presentation on Take Ten© Violence Prevention Initiative: Changing the Culture of Violence through Churches and Schools. Take Ten teaches people of all ages to "Walk It Out, Talk It Out, Wait It Out" when faced with conflict. Come and learn about an exciting non-violence movement working its way into the South Bend community. 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 

,,. 
.. 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
"How to Listen to Beethoven's Last Piano Sonata" 

A Lecture/Recital by 
Ethan Raimo 
Professor of Music University of Notre Dame 
2:00 pm, Sunday, February 20, 2000 Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge 
Free and open to the public. For more information, call 631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/-music. 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 17, 2000 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish need spark to take on tough Tribe 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sport> Wrirer 
They just don't get much 
better thun this. 
The red hot i'Jotre Dame 
women's tennis squadron, 
flying high after five straight 
wins, will touch down in 
Madison, Wis., this weekend 
to battle an equally scorch­
ing William and Mary team 
in what should be a spectac­
ular showdown. 
The Irish will take on the 
Tribe today in the first 
round of the USTA/ITA 
National Team Indoor 
Championships. History indi· 
cates the match will be a 
close one; William and Mary 
leads the all-time series 4-3, 
but dropped a 5-4 decision 
to Notre Dame last season. 
The 27 th-rnnked Irish 
have been playing their best 
tennis. Coming off impres­
sive victories over Maryland 
and Illinois. Notre Dame has 
picked the right time to 
catch fire. They'll need all 
the spark they can get to 
beat 12th-ranked William 
and Mary. 
In recent matches the Irish 
women have demonstrated 
considerable depth and have 
posted strong showings from 
top to bottom. Junior All­
American Michelle Dasso, 
the team's top player, enters 
the match as one of the top singles players in school his­tory. She will take on the Tribe's Delphine Troch in No. 1 singles. 
Lindsey Green is undefeat­ed thus far in both singles and doubles and her level of play will go a long way in telling whether or not the Irish can advance. 
Senior Kellv Zalinski will have extra m~tivation as she is closing on the school record for career singles vvins. She needs just nine more victories to eclipse Jennifer Hall's record total of 116. 
Because both teams arc solid in singles play, the out­come of the match is likely to hinge on doubles play. That fact could very well play into the hands of the Irish. 
Notre Dame boasts two ranked doubles tandems, while William and Mary has only one. The pairing of Dasso and sophomore Becky Varnum is ranked 33rd, while the coupling of junior. Kimberly Guy and freshman Katie Cunha is 17th. The Tribe's top offering of Troeh and junior Carolyn Buis is ranked an impressive 10th. 
The Irish will make their seventh consecutive appear­ance in the National Indoors and will strive to improve their 8-10 all-time record in the event. 
Search committee forms for AD 
Special to The Observer 
University Prcsiden t Father Edward Malloy announced Wednesday the formation of the committee that will con­duct the search for the University's new athletic director. 
This comes after the resig­nation of former athletic d.irector Michael Wadsworth on Feb. 7. 
father Malloy will chair the s(rnrch committee, and its members will be Nathan llatch. the University's provost; Carol /\nn Mooney, vice president and associate provost; Scott Malpass, vice prnsident for finance and the University's chief investment officer; Alexander Hahn, chair and professor of math­ematics and a member of the Universitv's Facultv Board on Athletics;· and Kevin Bradford, assistant professor of market­ing and a former Division I-A student-athlete. Louis Nanni, executive assistant to the president, will serve as staff assistant to the committee. 
The executive search firm Heidrick & Struggles will assist the committee in the search, which will be national in scope and will focus on experienced athletic adminis­trators. 
"We are beginning this search with no list of candi­dates and without any precon• ceived notions concerning individuals," Malloy said. "Heidrick & Struggles is a highly regarded organization, and the firm's independence and expertise will be invalu­able in helping the committee identify the best candidates to become Notre Dame's athletic director." 
The search follows the announcement last weuk by Malloy that the University's athletic administration will be restructured and that the new athletic director will report directly to him. 
ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANYi 

Presentation and Information Session 
Thursday, February 17, 2000 7:00 -8:30 pm Foster Room LaFortune 
All students interested in learning more about the actuarial profession are welcome to attend. 
Interviews -Internship 
Friday, February 18, 2000 
Check with Career & Placement to schedule an interview time. 
Allstate. 
You're in good hands. 
www.allstatecareers.com 
BfJfJKSTfJRE BASKETBAll TfJIIRIIAMEIIT IS &fJM/llfl!! 
• 
./ 
WATCH FfJR TEAM The results SIGN-UP DAYS BEGINNING IN 
Will bB 
LATE FEBRUARYAND CAPTAINS' MEETING IN MARCN unbelievable! 


---------------, 
Thursday, February 17, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
-
FOURTH AND INCHES 
~Ov'RE OW 1W.:. ltt"' fLOoR 
OF Ti-IE ~t:.sevR~H 
L113Rt>.R'f ¥ 
. 
Fox TROT 

YOU'VE LOCl<ED 
l'M PEACHY.' F1NE! 
THE BATHRooM 
NEA.T·O• RlfFIC.' 
Doo~! Ai£ "(OU 
AAAA!
Ok' IN THERE?/ 
I 
,r-..,.__--J
.. ft 
~n 
WHAT'S WRoNc;, SWEETIE? 
'
l'ASoN? 
I 
CROSSWORD 
64 Proceed 65 Scotch diluter 66 Does a muffler's 
job 67 Politically incorrect suffix 
DOWN 
1 Funny-car fuel 2 Name on jetliners, once 3 Dizzy Gillespie's genre 4 Does a slow bum 5 Cause of some knocking 6 Santa winds 7 Knowing when to be silent, e.g. 8_Island National Monument 9 Makes roads slippery, say 10 To the extent 
that 11 Defeat 12 Fine fur 13 Pulls the plug 
on 
ACROSS 
Gists 5 Forbes 400 list 
topper 10 #1 spot 14 Words said with 
a nod 15 Summing up 16 Kicker's target 17 Choir site 19 Beat (off) 20 Prison rebel, 
perhaps 21 Haberdashers' items 23 Lover of 
Eurydice 25 Baby bird? 26 St. fire 28 Overloads 31 Bell 34 A purebred it's 
not 
36 Capt. Hull who commanded Old Ironsides 
37 _ li!ly & Co. 38 Title for this 
puzzle? 40 Certain cross 41 One of the 
Flintstones 43 Safari 44 Hair curler 45 Fliers' 
frustrations 47 "Ditto" 49 Genius 51 Badly slandered 55 March sound 58 Number one 
Hun 59 Jai 60 Full of small talk 62 Laura of 
•Jurassic Park" 63 "Like it 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
S C A L P A OR 
=-t-:-t-,,-,-1-,:-1 
_,.,.,-+--:-t-::1 1B Quaint dance -..~~~ 22 Namely -,,-t-:-t,=--t-::--1 24 Bygone voting 
bloc, with "the" 27 Make music, in away ....+=,+-::+.:-1 29 1950's-60's NBC star 
--+--+--+---1 30 Lowlife ......._.__.__. 31 Off-color 
T1-1ti..\./K C:,OOOt-.tS~! LM,T 
1: RH'\fMBl:R, 1 WI.~ 01JiS.10E, 1\1:~0-\IN<> FOR 
A. ••• Wt\\i f>, t'\INVl"E •.• 
I~'" FLOOR \-l~seA>R&H /Lt(3RARY.' , 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jerry O'Connell, Lou Diamond Phillips, Michael Jordan, Alan Bates, Margaret Truman, Gene Pitney 
Happy Birthday: Get busy and start doing all the things you love to do. Travel will beckon you, and your thirst for knowledge will draw you into unusual situations throughout the year. 1he more contact you have with those from different back­grounds, the better. The information you discover will help you turn your dreams into reality. Your numbers: 2, 17, 23, 28, 31, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Try to avoid overindulgence. Difficulties with gas, oil or water in your home will disrupt your routine. Females may be touchy; criticism could cause discord.00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Romantic encounters will unfold at social functions involving friends and/or relatives. Travel will be plea­surable, but costly. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Deception regarding legal paper work or joint financial ventures is apparent. Don't start new projects or try to resolve existing problems. 
000 
55 Teletubbies and 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
others 
Someone you care about may not be completely honest with you. One­
56 Nondairy 
sided romantic attractions will cause
spread 
heartache. An unreal view of your­
self is evident. 000 purchase 
57 Ice cream 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22}: Medical problems will be difficult to diag­
61 Uttle piggy 
nose. Visit friends who have not been 
feeling well. Avoid becoming inti­
mately involved with co-workers. 
EUGENIA LAST  
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will enhance your reputation if you bend over backward to help friends or relatives with existing problems. You should catch up on correspondence. 0000 LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Your overly sensitive nature will confuse others. Deception or misunderstand­ings are probable, so honest and pre­cise communication will be a must. 00 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Do not put trust in in-laws or relatives who are incapable of comprehending your personal situation You may get confused while traveling. 00000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Deception regarding joint finan­cial ventures or legal matters is likely. Be careful what you say to whom. Elders may pose a problem for you. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Romantic encounters may not be as they appear. One-sided infatuations are evident. Be cautious when deal­ing with members of the opposite sex.000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Employers may not be completely honest with you. Do not ask for a raise or make job changes, but be prepared to accept the inevitable. Stress may cause minor stomach problems. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Trav­el will bring not only adventure and satisfaction, but also cultural knowl­edge and interesting new friend­ships. Sudden changes involving rel­atives and peers may surprise you. 00000  ,,, - 


Puzzle by Nancy Salomon and Harvey Es1a¦ 
32 "I cannot tell " 33 Pitch off the 
road 
35 Believe it! · 
3B Pioneers of a 
SGS-day 
calendar 
39 Draws 
42 Tennis star 
Hingis 
44 Big catalog company expense 
46 "Friends," e.g . 
48 lt might be bleeped out 
50 Kind of jacket 52 Make a pass at 53 Pop's John 
54 Singer Taylor 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
JEFF BEAM 
beam.1@nd.edu 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
000 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
Birthday Baby: You will experience many opportunities throughout your life. Your ability to be unique in all that you do will result in meeting the right 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
people at the right time. 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 
e 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
... 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

Struggling for a win 
-
The Saint Mary's basketball team lost, 78-58, to Anderson 
University Wednesday. 
its fourth consecutive
PORTS 
defeat. 
page 25 
O
THE page 28 BSERVER Thursday, February 17, 2000 
See best Irish team 1n action 
I'm sorrv! 
Before a"nything else in my column. I feel its necessary to addri>ss an issue that's become way too prevalent in 
. the news this week. Then. I hope we can sweep it under tho rug. 
Perhaps it was the hours of soaking up the early morning air in anticipa­tion of the Connec­ticut game. 
Perhaps it was a mob men­tality coercing normally classy fans to get caught up in the fervor of the game. 
Perhaps it was a little pay­back to the verbal abuse Troy Murphy took at Rutgers or the physical beating he takes from every team. 
Perhaps it was immaturity. 
The explanation for the events doesn't matter. It was inappropriate and I apologize. 
I apologize to the Notre Dame family that the student section represented it unfa­vorably. 
I'm sorry to the team that we diverted any attention from its spectacular win. 
I'm sorry to any young chil­dren that heard the com­ments. 
I'm sorry to Khalid El-Amin that Notre Dame students held him responsible for his actions in a classless way. 
I'm even sorry to Jim Calhoun for attempting to get
-"inside his players' heads" in the same classless way he attempts to "get inside the referees' heads" by whining after every play. To insinuate that it doesn't happen elsewhere as the South Bend Tribune's David Haugh did is naive and unin­
... formed . 
But the behavior of Darners can't be thought of in relative terms. I take pride in our class, and our behavior should ref1cict that pride. 
That being said, could we please get 011 with our lives? 
We can't take back what has already occurred. We can only apologize and vow to stop it from happening in the future. 

see CHURNEY/page 21 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Netters cruise to yet another easy victory 
By TIM CASEY Spom Writer 
/\nother game, another victory. 
The women's basketball team continued its dominance Wednesday wit a 70-52 win at Villanova 04-9, 7-5). The 5th-ranked Irish (22-2, 13-0) have now won a school-record 18 in a row. 
Huth Hiley's 14 points led Not.re Dame's bal­anced scoring attack Danielle Green (13 points), Alicia Ratay 112) and Ericka Haney (lO) also scored in double figurns. 
The Irish shot 53.8 percent for lhe game as· all the scholarship playtffs saw action. Notre Dame also controlled the boards, with a 36-21 advantage. 
The tfwms were close for the first 18 min­utes of the game before the Irish rneled off eight straight points to go into halftime with a 3:{-23 advantagfl. Notre Dame's defensive intensity was turned up a notch at the begin­ning of the second half. Villanova only man­aged four field goals in the first 10 minutes of lhe half, as Notre Dame raced out to a large lead. 
Hiley's six points during an 8-0 run expand­ed the lead to 17, at 46-29. A Green fast-break lay-up off a steal with 3:57 remaining gave the Irish a 65-39 advantage, their biggest lead of the game. 
For the game, the Wildcats connected on just 17 of 58 shot attempts for a 29 percent field­goal percentage. Jen Skeeters paced Villanova with 17 points on 6 of 22 shooting. while Trish Juhline had 13, including three 3-pointers. Those two players accounted for all of the Wildcats first half points. 
The road to an undefeated Big East season now leads to Piscatawav. N.J., where the Irish face Rutgers Saturday. The Scarlet Knights improved to 17-5 on the season after a 56-51 victory over Syracuse Tuesday night. 
The two teams split their two meetings last year, with Rutgers winning 77-57 in the mid­dle of February. The Irish returned the favor in the semifinals of the Big East tournament, . upending the Scarlet Knights by a 68-61 mar­gin. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING ANO DIVING 
Irish scramble to w-in title, make history 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Saint Mary's Editor 
The third time was the charm for the women's swim­ming and diving team in 1999, when a win over Villanova captured their third consecutive conference cham­pionship. 
1\nd if the third time's tho charm, tile f'ourtb time must he magic. 
The squad will enler this today's Big East swimming and diving championship with the opportunity to do what no other team in Notre DamP. history has clone: secure four consecutive conference cham­pionships. 
Hy not being pushed easily aside, Notre Dame has estab­lished a reputation in the conference. The pressure isn't necessarily for a four­peat but !'or the senior class to walk away with a legacy. 
"We'd all like to win this meet," said head coach Bai!Ry Wcathors. "The seniors would really like to go out having won all four." 
l.ed by lhe power of co-cap­tain s Elizabeth Barger and Alison Newell, senior divers Gina Kelelhohn and Ilhiana Saunders, and rounded out by Laura Shepard and Shannon 
Suddarth, the senior class has been an integral part of the team chemistry throughout the year. 
As Weathers' first recruit­ing class for the Irish, the team of six have the opportu­nity to step out of the water as the most distinguished and decorated class in women's swimming history. 
"The seniors are really important for us," Weathers said. "They'v<' hf'en the high­est scoring class we've recruited at Notre Dame. It's going to be critical for them to perform well (this week­end I." 
Barger and Newell will 
team up for solid ownership of the butterfly events, where Barger seeks her fourth Big East 100 butterfly title. Barger, the Big East and Notre Dame record holder in the event, will receive solid support from Newell, a two­time Big East champion and the team record holder in the 200 bu tterf1y. 
Suddarth will also add to the mix as a seasoned Big East competitor with four conference titles under her belt. The Big East record holder in thr, 100 and 200 breastroke, Suddarth will also make an impact as thr, breas­
see SW1Mlpage 23 
if) 
• at National Team Indoor Championships at Bowling Green w at Rutgers Swimming and Diving Friday, 7:35 p.m. Saturday, noon
Madison, Wis . ~
SPORTS 
at Big Easr Championships 
Today Uniondale, N.Y. Track and Field 
ATA 
• Today-Sarurday .,,at Big East Championships at Seton Hall 
vs. Wisconsin rv,\ I'i'·,I Friday, 3: 15 p.m. Syracuse, N.Y. Saturday, 9 p.m. 
'•~~.. 
' GLANCE 
Saturday-Sunday 






