
Angry Mob out to have fun 
McCain wins two 
1::i:er u•under whal goes on inside O'Neil/7 Find 
Michigan and 11rizona are like-minded states, 

Wednesday

out what those former Grace dweller.,; are doing. 
according to the Republican primaries. 

FEBRUARY 23,
Scene . page 11 
News . page 3 
2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXlll NO. 89 

Kaneb Center intern earns national award 
Ry JASON McFARLEY 
News \X'rite1 
Cecilia l.twl'ro, an intl:'rn at tht> :--JoLrr Dame Kancb C'.1'nlf'r for Tf'aching and L,,arning. is one or sev·en graduate students uationwide to rec:eivr the K. Patricia Cross Futurn L(\aders Award. 
Thr. award. given annually bv the Anwrican Association oi· IlighPr l•:ducation (AAI IE). rPrngnizrs potential lP-ader­ship in thr. field or highrr Pducation. It is nanwd l'or a proressor emeritus at the Universitv or California, Los Angrd,1s. · 
Lucero. a doctoral candi­datf' at thf' University of l\1irhigan. was nominated by two Michigan faculty nwm­bPrs last September. 
'Tm surprised and nxritcd. TIHHf1's a lot of pn~ssure 
involved in living up to  the  
expectations  of  such  an  
award." Lucero said.  

lnc·luded in her award is an all-expense-paid trip to the A/\! IE national conferPn,·e in Anaheim. Calif.. in t\lav. At thl' con!'ercncP.. Lur.Pro· will bP formally recognizPd in a c(~rcmony for the sevAn recip­ients and will n'ce'ivc official nwmbcrship into the AA!IE. 
But tbP. most attractive fea­ture of the award will proba­bly bP thA many new net­
working and menlorship opportunithc,s. according to LucPro. 
Lucero also hopes the award will !!'ad to future research projects. At the Kaneb Cenler, she has under­taken many projects during the past thror, years. Iler research ranges from topics such as faculty and technolo­gy to tradng the integration of new professors into the Notre Dame community. 
"I couldn't have asked for a more wonderful intern and kirnn researcher." said Barbara Walvoord, Lucero's suprrvisor at thr: center. 
Though Lucero·s internship ends this spring. her plans for the immediate future are already set. She intends to l'urther devPlop her doctoral proposal and to finish her dissertation in the months ahead. Eventuallv, she said she would like to hold an administrative position on a college campus. 
'Tm also interested in writ­ing books. maybe one about African-American women faculty in higher education. I've done research on that," Lucero said. 
Lucero is a native of Pittsburgh. Penn., who com­pleted her undergraduate work at Notre Dame, where shr. majored in American Studies. 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


AN 'ULTIMATE' DAY 






SMC constitution faces amendments, evaluation 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Saint Mary's Editor 

In response to the confusion with the 2000 student body presidential elections, Board of GovPrnance approved several measures to amend and contin­uallv evaluate their constitution Tuesday. 
Angie Little. student body vice prnsident, and Michelle Nagle, student body vice presi­dent-elect. presented a propos­al for a constitutional oversight committee that would be responsible for investigating the constitution in relation to the changing needs of the stu­dent body. 
The committee. which is chaired by the vice president, should be convened at the dis­cretion of the vice president and is responsible for dis­cussing amendments to be pre­sented to Board of Governance. It would be convened only when needed in response to a complaint or other dispute that indicated need for evaluation, Little said. 
"The only role this committee has is to recommend amend­ments. The committee has the responsibility of researching and investigating." Nagle said. 
Little and NaglR said that members serving on the com­mittee should be elected. although attendance at com­mittee meetings is open to the public. 
"We talked a lot about who should serve on the committee. and we felt that they should be women voted on by the student body," Little said. "Basically, this is a forum for research. and closing those meetings would be at the discretion of the vice president." 
The proposal was passed with three members abstaining. 
The board also discussed amendments to the constitution regarding election bylaws. 

"These are all recommenda­tions from me as interim elec­tions commissioner regarding the bylaws," said Bridget Heffernan, who served as inter­im commissioner for the 2000 presidential election. "Most of these are darific:ations of cur­rent bylaws, and none of them are changing what is in the constitution." 
The drafted amendments darify several ambiguous elec­tion situations. Amendments address appropriate action in the potential vacancy of an elections commissioner because of candidacy or other reasons, the jurisdiction limits of the Elections Committee, the func:tion of the appeals board and confidentiality of members' names, endorsement of candi­dates by Elections Committee members and run-off proce­dures. 
The amendment states that in 
see BOG/page 4 

INSIDE COLUMN 

I be 
thlfl. ki'fl ... 

OK, so I went to Kroger's one time over the summer to buy something. So I grab the stuff, which is good. medium-sized stuff that doesn'i have that oh-so-charming twang of rat urine that is found in clrnaper stuff, and I walk up to the register. 
So. I casually stroll np, and this snotty little 17­year-old is standing at the counter. How do I know she was 17. you ask? Well. have you ever worked in a grocery store? These cashiers believe they are the greatP.st gift to mankind since the inven­tion of waxed fruit. 
I like waxed fruit because you can leave it out and it makes your home festive and decorative anvtime of the year. So I put the stuff up on the cuunler, and she says with a sneering little voice "Can you scan it?" And it wasn't a nice, polite. "Can you scan it." It was a very condescending. I-make-50­cents-more-than-minimum-wage-so-boo-ya "can you scan it." So you would think that I, being a relatively intelligent person. would sim­ply say "Grand!'' and pass it across the scan­ner. Well. this was not the case. 
I ask her why I have to scan it. And she tells me "Well, since I'm only 17. I can't sell people stuff." At this. I snir.ker derisivelv and ask her, "Wait. if I'm scanning the stuff, and you're accepting the money, aren't you still selling the stuff to me, except that you think that you're too good to move the stuff two inches across a scanner before I pay?" Of course, she says, "Yes" and motions for the manager to come over. 
Point of the story: Only give cashiers enough grief to be within two inches of calling the manager over. Otherwise you get in trouble. and they take the stuff away. 
Then one time. I had this donut. Man. I tore that thing to shreds. It was a lemon bismark. Mmm. You ever see a movie where they have one of those guard dogs that snap and snarl and have the spittle flying off of their gaping jaws? It was kind of like that. but without the dog. 
Have you ever heard about how the legend of Dracula started? I guess there was this guy in Romania who would capture all the armies moving through his territories back in the day when warring was popular. and the Turks were sacking most of Eastern Europe. His name was Vlad the Impaler. He had all these giant metal stakes. and when he ran out of metal, he began using wood from his forests to supply himself with wood to make stakes. I don't know where they got the whole vampire thing, but he would just impale whole armies on stakes as a warning to the invading Turks to stay out of his territories. 
The point: You decimate belligerent armies in a gruesome and inhumane way and everyone starts calling you a vampire. Not to mention you end up getting some guy named Bram Stoker writing a huge hunk of poo that's sup­posed to be about you. That sure does make me mad. And when you're playing Risk, and the Turks attack out of southern Europe into Afghanistan ... that really ticks me off. 
That. and when the man takes my stuff away. 
The ciews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 

Kace Sreer Jacqueline Browder Sam Derhcimcr Bridger Mahoney Tim Logan Graphics Spocts Jose Cuellar Mike Connolly Production Viewpoint Rachael Prorrman Dustin Fcrrdl Lab Tec.:h Liz bng 
rhc,Oh..,rver (US!'~ 5<J~ l-'!000) " p11hli,.hed Mond;1y rl,ro"gh Frid,y ex1.:ep1 during ex:1m .md v:1c.mon periods. The Observer 1s a member of rhe Ac;sot·];ncd ,f>rr::ii All ttprrrdunion ri~hts ,1rt r~serv~d. 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 

Wednesday  Thursday  
. Hobbies & Crafts:  . Music: Piano  
Collectibles Show: coins,  Performance: featuring  
baseball cards, toys, etc ..  Miko Kominami. IUSB,  
Scottsdale Mall, 11 a.m. to  8 p.m.  
5 p.m.  . Art: "Journey Toward  
. Festival: Andrews  Enlightenment," an exhibit  
University Creative Arts  of prayer 11ags, Goshen  
Festival. 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.  College. 8 a.m. to 11 p.m.  
OUTSIDE THE DOME  

Friday  Saturday  
. Art: "Chasing the Ideal:  . Film: "Fight Club,"  
Women and Eating  Cinema at the Snite, Snitc  
Disorders," Moreau  Museum ofArt. 7 p.m. and  
Galleries, Saint Mary's,  9:45 p.m.  
5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.  . Poetry reading:  
. Theater: "A Midsummer  Nappanee public library,  
Night's Dream," Goshen  Nappanee, 7 p.m. to  
Community Theatr.r, 8 p.m.  9 p.m.  
Compiled from U-Wire repurts  

Wisconsin students continue protest of FLA 
MADISON, Wis. 
Protesters gathered once again at Bascom Hall Monday to rally against the Univf1rsity of Wisconsin­Madison's af11liation with sweatshop manufacturers. and Chancellor David Ward's treatment of the issue. 
After a four-day occupation or Ward's recr.ption offir,e that began during a rally on Feb. 16. 54 protrst­crs were removed from Basr,orn I !all Sunday by police and arrested for unlawful assembly, disorderly conduct and other r,harges. 
Students and community members gathered at the steps of Bascom Hall continuing their protest against sweatshops and Ward's action the previous day. 
"We are not going to stop fighting, no matter what they do to us," said protester Ben Bunkie, who was arrnsted Sunday morning. "The 

Alcohol present at Texas A&M fire 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Some of the Texas A&M students iri charge of build­ing the annual bonfire were drinking alcohol the night the stack collapsed, several eyewitnesses told investi­gators. The statements of 157 student bonfire workers released Monday also reveal an incident two days before the accident that may have weakened the cen­terpole, as well as a number or symptoms indicating an unstable structure in the minutes before the stack fell the morning of Nov. 18. Derek Woodley, a fresh­man general studies major, said in his statement that he was working on a swing on third stack when he noticed a group of student builders drinking beer on top of the fourth stack. "They were talking and joking, and there was a little horseplay, but nothing danger­ous," Woodley said. Jim Daniel, a freshman biomed­ical science major, said he saw an initiation ceremony in which a group of upperclassmen, including Jerry Self. one of the 12 victims, were drinking beer on the top of the fourth stark. Toxicology tests following the accident indicated that Self had a blood alcohol level of 0.161 perr,ent. Another victim. Jeremy Frampton, had a blood alcohol level of'0.316 percent. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather"'forec,ist for daytime wndi1ions and high temperatures 
r--,.-"' i  H  L  
Thursday  Q  57  48  
Friday  r;(,-?t  60  45  
Saturday  ~ , .. , .......  53  37  
Sunday  Q  50  35  
Monday  ~  51  37  
,'..,/.._,,.  

4.Q,~GQ.Q i'.) ~ 6 
Showers r-srorms Rain Fll;rries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy C/ou<1y 
Via As~ociateJ Pte:i:. GrapilicsNer 


other reason we are here is not what the policr. did to me but what Chancellor Ward told them to do whatPver ttrny needrd to do. Chanr,ellor Ward preferred to !have protesters arrested] than come and talk to us -this is unacceptable." 
Many of the arrested protesters agreed that Ward's action was unnecessary. 
"l can say that there was a lot of pain involved. that our right<; were violated. We were never read our rights," said ASM representative and 
arrested protester Julia Hundley. 
Protesters am very upset with Ward's refusal to speak with them about their seven demands, which included withdrawing from the Fair Labor Association (PLA) and joining the Worker !lights Consortium (WHC). Ward conceded and with­drew from the FIA last Wednesday. I le announced provisional member­ship with the WHC on Friday. Despite thesP. actions, protesters continued to sit-in, saying they would like all of their demands met and also to meet with Ward. 
Ward returned early from a trip Saturday to deliver a statement to protesters that he would not meet with them under these r.ircum­stances and told them to vacate the premises. Protesters refused to leave and were arrnsted at 4 a.m. the fol­lowing morning. 
Missing student inspires legislation 
RALEIGH, N.C. 

As the 1997 spring semr.ster drew to a close. Kristen Modafferi left the North Carolina State campus for a summer abroad. Shi~ had just finished her freshman year, and had headed west to take a summer course at the University of California at Berkeley. when just three weeks after her 18th birthday, she vanished without a trace. lier disappearance has made national headlines. Recently, Modafferi's story has made head­lines again. Since Kristen was of legal adult age when her disappearance occurred, the Modafferi family was unable to rer,eive much governmental aid in their search. On Feb. 1(), Sen. John Edwards introduced legislation backed by the Fraternal Order of Police to help provide law 1ml'orcemeni additional resources to locate missing young people. "Although a person is a legal adult after they turn 18, most people would agree that collegr.-aged kids are just that -kids," Sen. Edwards said in a press statement. The first bill, known as Kristen's Law, is modeled after a House bill that would authorize the attorney general to make grants to public agencies and non-prcifit private orga­nizations that help find missing adults. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 23. 

@"'"'e0 D 
High Low Shower• 
V,a A.nr,c/illed Prliiill!/  
Atlanta  63  
Baltimore  54  
Boston  54  
Chicago  76  
Houston  61  

-..... ----­

D  a::J . D  .  (" \%¥•~  ,clSII!  
Rain  T-storma  fluule•  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  

48  Las Vegas  61  48  Portland  54  37  
40  Memphis  66  54  Seattle  53  39  
32  Milwaukee  53  41  SI. Louis  62  52  
55  New York  51  43  Tampa  76  57  
48  Philadelphia  54  37  Wash DC  58  34  
- 

-.......-·------------......... _,.. .... -......., .. -.
"" 

Wednesday, February 23, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Trial tea01 co01petes for top rankings 
By ELLEN FITZGERALD News Writer 
The Notre Dame Law School trial teams placed first and ser:ond seed. respectively. at the Midwest regional r:ompeti­tion on Feb. 10, and will both advance to the national com­petition. 
This marks the first Lime in the region's history that the two advancing teams stemmed from the same school. and the first time a Notre Oame team has advanced this far since 1993. when Notre Dame won nationals. 
The competition, sponsored by the National Association of Trial Lawyers, a ser,tion of the American Bar Association. is held regionally in 12 different locations. The top two seeds from earh regional competi­tion advance to the nationals. 
Notre Dame's team, The Barristers, was composed through a series of tryouts held in September. From of these tryouts, two separate teams wern formed: the Blue team, comprised of Shazzie Naseem, president of the Student Bar Association, Tamara Walker. team cap­tain. and president of the Black Law Student Association, Ryan Redmon, and Kelly Murphy and the Gold team. comprised of Stone Grissom, Scott Kellogg, Steven Pratico, and Matt Woleski. They are roarhed by Wendell Walsh and Jeanne Jourdan. 
The team received its ficti­tious case, Tracy vs. Toth, written by Judge Parker of Dallas. back in December. It began studying it over winter break. and actually returned to school a week early in order to begin formulating their arguments. The teams prepare opening and closing statements and cross-exami­nations. The two coaches of the teams used this ti.me to decide which members will be the prosecution. defense or both. 
Once at the regional compe­tition. each team has the chance to argue the case up to three times. once in the pre­liminaries. once in the semifi­nals and again in the finals. 
The winners are chosen by three evaluators from the legal profession. One acts as a judge and two are set up as jurors. Teams can then win by a unanimous vote of all three, or a 2-1 split. Seeding for the national competition is deter­mined both from these votes and by a point system. 
"Both teams were declared the winner by unanimous decisions and both teams were undefeated for three days -of competition," said Tamara Walker, team cap­tain. 
Competition at the meet was extremely heated, as Notre Dame competed against Kent State, John Marshall and Loyola, and reigning national champions Northwestern, on their way to the regional title. 
The Barristers will next be 
representing the Notre Dame 
Law School at the national 
competition the last week in 
March. 
"Our region is really strong, and the people that we beat are pretty solid. We are a very trial-based school, so I think that our odds are very good," said Walker. 

Students to participate in testing 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
News Writer 

Twenty-two students from Saint Mary's education depart­ment will participate in a nationwide trial run of a pro­posed national Hr.ensure test for teachers on March 1. 
The testing will take place at The Inn at Saint Mary's and will last four to five hours. The test itself, called the Test for Teaching Knowledge (TKK), has been in the works for the last 18 months. It is the result of a collaborative effort between the American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education {AACTE) and the Educational Testing Service (ETS). 
The TKK was developed after the release of principles of good teaching developed by the Interstate New Teacher Assessment and Support Consortium (INTASC) in 1994. 
There are 10 principles to the program. the most basic requir­ing that teachers have a con­crete knowledge of the subject matter. Other issues covered include the development of the learning processes of students, how well the teacher can sup­port their intellectual, social and personal development, the diversity of student learning. encouraging the development of critical thinking, problem solv­ing and performance skills in students and creating a safe and nourishing environment for education. 
The principles also state that teachers· must master effective verbal, nonverbal and media communication skills, develop lesson plans that deal not only with the subject matter but also with the students and local community, meet the curricu­lum goals and devise strategies in order to successfully teach the lesson plans. must be answered in written 
Continual self-evaluation and form. Doyle said. Test takers good relationships with col­will be given documentation on leagues, parents and agencies a particular child. instructional in an effort to support student sequence, episode or unit. The learning were the final goals of teachers-to-be must read the the INTASC principles. documentation and answer sev­
"The new 1TK is intended to eral questions about each case assess higher level performance study, using their knowledge of skills instead of lower level the [NTASC principles to ana­knowledge-based skills," said lyze the situation. Mario Doyle, chair of the "The teacher preparation Education Department at Saint programs at Saint Mary's Mary's. College are moving toward a 
Twenty-nine states, including performance-based structure," Indiana, adopted the INTASC Doyle said. "In a performance-
principles.  based teacher  
To comply w i t h  "If we're going to require  preparation program, pre­ 
Indiana's  that students learn new  service teach­ 
adoption of the INTASC principles,  methods, we must have a means ofevaluating their  ers need to be able to use their theoreti­ 
colleges within the  mastery ofthose methods. ,,  cal knowledge base to analyze  
state must submit a  Marie Doyle  problems they encounter in  
complete  chair of education department  the classroom.  

perfor­mance­based tearher preparation cur­riculum to the Indiana Professional Standards Board by June 30, 2002. The TKK is one option being explored as a means to meet these new stan­dards. 
"The objective of this particu­lar filed test of the exam is to refine the questions and pre­pare a final test of states to con­sider adopting as part of the licensing requirements," said Doyle. "The results will not be used to assess our program or its participants. The objective is to 'test the test' and estabtish reliability and validity." 
Saint Mary's, with the rest of the state of Indiana, has formal­ly adopted the INTASC princi­ples and seems eager to partic­ipate in the pilot test. The edu­cation department was notified by the AACTE of the option to participate in early December. 
"The faculty at Saint Mary's saw participating in the field test as a way to provide input on the test," Doyle said. "The test supervisors will provide feedback to the test developers on the testing experience. It also gives us an idea of the kind of assessment our students will be facing in the future." 
Unlike most standardized tests. which are multiple choice or fill-in-the-blank, the TTK consists of four parts which 

SAINT MARY'S
SLEd."1/Wcibk GCQU Widek qc. W~k 'BMeHWCt 7p1tt Siegi'Ued/PW Sexe6 Tltiula iac. SielJ6'rie4 

~oeg/ffClW4-'Ui/.,Cy~ 1!o. E~11wu,za. 6tuui ELECTIONS tue.d. 'Owcce ~0-Q 7r,"' Q(. lffo."43~ 'PE SK.eai Ptl!d,J 3--5p1tt eauule -PE Fo.tteeg ~be. 'D~. Jw&..AwliEMiwtt 7f>hl 
FOA CLASS OFFICERS ANDTN£N£W STUDENT DIVIASITY BOARD AA£ ON WEDNISDAY! 
VOTE IN TH£ DINING NALL J-9A'4, U-'2.P'4, S-1P'4 
OFF-CA'4PUS STUDENT VOTING 
IN TH£ HAGGAR GA'4£ A00'4 II-SP'4 
Yeaf.ftcLuJ1a 'F!EU 'OQoellt pe'I-~ SfONSOlt~ RY Tijt-Pu,o. tJqq.'o. iitee apf'etize.ta. 1111. fuaeltl S,e.'t cwi,te: 
Sou~ OF GoVUNMICE 
~ Ckeue fua ~ '8~ 'Bawl Gala 'Bew£ ~ urWt f.w4-Gag g~ 

Traditional  
tests  do  not  
address  these performance  
skills."  

"Performance-based" means that the curriculum must not only impart knowledge but must also ensure that teacher education students can take that knowledge tu the practical level by making their lesson plans stimulating, motivating, and effective. In short, prospec­tive teachers must show that they have more than a good script; they must perform the lead role like a star. 
"If we're going to require that students learn new methods, we must have a means of evalu­ating their mastery of those methods," Doyle said. "That's why we feel it's important to take part in this pilot test. It gives us a glimpse of the future today, and provides an opportu­nity for us to help shape the for­mat of a test that could affect licensure of teachers across the country." 
Most of the students who are participating in the trial test are juniors and seniors completing the education preparation pro­gram. but who have not neces­sarily finished student teaching. There are three versions of the test: elementary, middle school and high school. However, all questions are gen11ral education topics, not limited to any spe­cialty. 




amount or financial help that should bn givr.n. Tho board 

McCain takes Arizona, Michigan 
BOG 
dr.cided to send the issue to 
the constitutional oversight

continued from page l 
committee for discussion 

rrnn-llBpublir.ans. and two­brtrnd ol' votPrs -bluP-coll,tr
rngarding devrloping stan­

a run-off situation where thA 
Associated P.-ess 

thirds of' Bush's votn camp from economic conservatives, union
dards for financial assistanc.t~.

run-o!T ends in a tic. "the total 
bedrock Hepublicans. nwmbPrs and Babv Boomnrs ­
l\1embPrs also discussrd

raw votrs from tlw primary 
DETHOIT 
Thn interviews WPrn conduct­voted in f'ar largPr ·numbPrs. llis
candidacy ri,quirements for

p]Prtion and the run-off \\ill br 
llcpublican John McCain bat­
ed bv Voter N1iws ServirP. a coalition was rnminisrPnt ol' ti]('
PlPctions. Curnrntly. bnforn

added." Furthermore. should 
tled Tui\sday in a tight race 
cons;irliurn ol' Tlw i\ssociatnd voters who put Honald Hnagan
elections begin, thP PlPrtions

anotlwr lie occuI'. appropriatP 
with Cnorge W. Hush in 
Prnss and tnlnvision nntworks. into thP Whit.P llousr· thrn
commissioner must submit

action \Vill be at tlrn d isr.retion 
Michigan's prosid!mtial prima­
Tim rncP r•.anw down to a tnsl b<'camP a battlt'ground for
namr.s or candidal.l!S to

of thr Elr.rtions Committer. 
ry. generat­

of Lwo disparate political coali­Dcmol'rnls and Hepublirans in
Acadrmic Affairs and

Some members expressrd 
ing a largP 

tions. subsPquc-nt pn'sidr'ntial PIPr­
BPsidence l.if'c to determirw if

concc>rn that th!' drafted 
turnout of 

Cov. John 1,:nglpr·. who tions.
candidatc'.s are in good aradP­

anwndnwnts did not addrt\SS 
independcmt 

promised to dr,liver his statP to McCain did uPtler among vi:t­
m ic and social standing.

what students wen' discontt,nt 
a n cl 

Bush. look thP blanw for not erans than in South Carolina,
Candidatns who am not in

with in tlw 2000 !'il'ction. 
DAmocratic 

s1wing the witv!' of lkmor.rats and appt\,trl'd to havP grPatN
good standing in !\ithrr catn­

"IL sermf'd what proplP 
voters in a 

and indPptmd!'l1lS coming. succnss convinring votPrs that 
gory arc disqualific'd.

\\'Prr. ronrernPd about v\'1lS 
bid to 

"I may havn to takP a lot of' lw was t.hn rarp's tn1P rd'ornwr
"\\'p rrnPd to clarifv what WP

that thcv didn't know who to 
rr.cover 

tlw blarnn bt1causn I didn't rPPI and straight talkt'r. In addition
mean by acadPmic ~rnd social

go to ir"tlwy bad a concern." 
from a stag­

that nvnn though thry W!'rt: to his Sll('r.Pss among
standing,·: said Crissie

said 1\kmaral Omorova. "VVr 
g f' ring 

larg!\ting Dnmocrats that we Dnmo1·rnt.s and indrpPndPnts.
lfonner. elections commission­

nPPd to makr rkar who pPO· 
wr,nkl'nd 

ought Lo cngagn in that war," McCain c•arn1\d tlw support ol'
Pr and stud!\nt body prPsident­

plr can go to if' tlwy have a 
dnfoat and sciZP morn,mlum for 
he said. an over\.vhPlming pPrc't'ntagP or
rlPct. Questions WPre raisPd

concern !about tlw Plections 
a two-w<wk blitz or primaries. 
IIPading into a high-stakes new vot<'rs, two-thirds of' tfw
about appropriate rours<is of' 

"If you·rn looking for a uniter
procr.ss.r 
spring oJ' GOP l'ilC!!S, Bush and pnoplP who had rwver bnf'or<'
action if a candirlate wrre to

Off-campus commissioner 
and nol. a dividPr. tlrnrn is a 
McCain agrel'd that Michigan ·s p11rti1·.ipatNl in a (;OP primary.
!'all out of good social or acad­

BPth Beattv also called thn 
place: for you in the Bush cam­
Pleclion was pivotal. In tlw Mirhigan battlPground.
emic standing during an !\lec­

board's att~ntion to thA fact 
paign." the Texas governor said 
"W,•rn going to win both pri• McCain supportPrs said they
tion.

that off-campus voling procc­
during a stop in Missouri. onr. 
marins," McCain told reportPrs. likr.d him lwcause lw stood up
"If a complaint was filrd by

durPs needt,d to br spr.cified. 
of 16 statPs conducting GOP 
conceding tlrn nngatiw impart f'or his bl,lic·f's ln PXit polling.
a student concerning social

"This year voting occurred 
rontr.sts in the next 14 days. 
if ho didn't. "liv11ry day is do or tlw y s p I i t th r-i r top i s s u <'
standing. students may !'!~cl

in tlw dining hall and the off­
Hepublicans also voted 
die. Wt\'rn a high wirn act and betwP<'ll Social SPcurity and
that person would not l.:,e a

campus loungr. If' you want to 
TuPsday in McCain's homo 
an insurgency campaign," lw moral values.
good president or vice prrsi­

say that off-rampus voting 
state of J\rizona. but McCain 
said, adding that lw'd "had a Bush votrrs W<'r!' young<!!'.
dr.nt." Naglr. added. "Ir tlrny

should rrmain only in th(' 
was expectnd to breeze to victo­
grnat ridP.." mcirr al'f'luPnt. anti-abortion 
were elected, thlW would not

]oungr. that rwrds to be 
ry. Thus. Michigan -tlw lirst 
Former amb,Lssador Alan and strongly ctmsPrvatiYP. They
be held accountable."

rhangrd," Beatty said. 
general Pl!iclio n be I IW<\th er 
Keyns was Uw only oLhor major citnrl his consnrvalivn valuns as
Some mrmbcrs expressl:d

Thr anrnndments were 
state on tlrn c;op primary calnn­
GOP candidate. and lw laggPd thnir top rPason f'or voting for 
concern ovnr the fact that if

passed with thr stipulation 
dar -was Tuesday's battle­
far behind in polls. him. H!'ligious right voLPrs also 
an officer fpll into bad stand­

that l'larilkations regarding 
ground. 

In a whirlwind 48 hours af'tPr pn•f'prrPd Bush.
ing during office. she could bn

dirrrtion of rlrctions com­
With 6 percent of the 
thn South Carolina primary. Four in IO votPrs said both
impeached.

plaints from students and off­
precincts reporting in ~ichigan, 
Hush and McCain tradnd accu­candidatPs attacknd unfair!\·.
"It's hard lo draw llw line

campus voting locations 
Mr:Cain had 41 .708 votes, or 47 
sal.ions ol' negativn l'.ampaigning though tlw bicknring by both
here." Beattv said.

would br included in thr. final 
pPrcP.nt. and Bush had 40.7h2 
in Michigan. Each romplaitH'd ('andidatPs SPPmcd to lPaVP vol­
The boarcI" opted to send lhe

draft. l\lr.mbers also passrd 
voles. or 46 percent. Alan 
that tlw otlrnr was using auto­" rs with a mo rP rw gativ1'
issue to tbn oversight commit­

the amendments ·with the 
Keyc~s had 4.43(1 votes, or 5 
matPd phon11 calls lo votPl'S lo imprpssion of' Bush than
ten for furthr,r disr,ussion.

understanding that thr.y will 
pnrcent. 

make in!famm:ttory religious McCain. T!rnt is a rPV<'l'SP of 
not be in effect for class eh,c• 
Intnrviews with voters as Lhcy 
attacks. Each dt'nit'd any polling f'rnm South Carolina. 
tions. as originally expr.ctr.d. In other BOG news 
lnf't polling placns showod that 
rnsponsibility. Bush campaign(•d sid1·-by­
"Thrsr candidahis went into 
half' of' thn Michigan voters
. The Winter Carnival will 

Tim negative talk didn'L turn side with \1irhigan Cov . .John 
the el!\rtion with an under­
were non-Hepublicans -inde­
be hrld Friday through 

of'f' voters, who showPd up in l!nglPr. who appParPd to draw 
standing of tlw bylaws tlrny Sunday in conjunction with 
pendr.nts and Demorrats who 
rar higher numb,•rs than in somP backlash from votPrs -of 
wr.re given," studfrnt body Little Sibs Weekend. Events 
voted in f'ar larger numbers 
1992 and 19%. thosP who said lingh'r's support
prr.sident Nancy Midden said. includP a student-run prayer 
than in tlrn 1996 open primary 
Hush drew l'ewc'r numlwr ol' a1Te1:tt>d tlwir vott~ a grPat dnal. 
"It wouldn't be fair to change service;, a dinner for spring 
in Michigan. Two thirds of' 
bedrock llPpublit:ans thun in t,vo-thirds actually votnd l'or them now." athletes. the College Bowl 
1->l cCain's vote camr, from the 
South Carolina. '.\1cC:ain's mix<'d MrCain. Amendments will be effec­competition. a bonfire and a tive for the Class of 2004 fall r.oncert evnnt in Dalloway's 


r.leclions. 
Thr. board also decided to send two nlPction issues to the nn\'lv r.stablislwd constitu­tiona·I ovrrsight committPe, when qurstions rPgarding candidacy eligibility and cam­paign !inaner. wPn' addressed. 
Omorova. a randidatP for presidPnt of thr divPrsity board. rnqurstnd funding for hrr campaign. Traditionally. Board of Govr,rnan,P will assist in funding !'or randi­dalPs who cannot afford cam­paign rosts to Pnsun' that any student can run f'or of'ficr. 
"I low wn vot<' on this sets a prPcPdent, and \\'P have to bP snnsitivc to that." said mis­sion rommissionrr Molly Kahn. "We havn to considPr how wn <lnal with this looking likr. favoritism. or ii' WP ask lill' a dt~monslration of nr.Pd." 
While thP board approvnd Omorova's n'qtwst. somn con­cern was raisPd about thP sponsored by Student Activities Board. 
. llcsidl~nce I !all Association Plections will be Thursday in the dining hall. Voting linrns will bn 7:'.~0 a.m. to 9:30 a.m., noon lo ~ p.111. and 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. Class elections will be todav in tlw dining hall. Voting Limes an' tlw samP as Hl!J\ Plf'ction tinws. 
LEADERS 
Full-time college student or graduate. Starting salary, $32,000. Post offer mental and physical screening. 
Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for an interview 1-877-299-9397 www.MarineOtlicer.com 

~ St Thomas University 
~SCHOOL OF I.AW 
'£SP4N~ 
SUMMER IN SPAIN PROGRAM MAY 27 -JUNE 27, 2000 EL EscoRIAL MADRID 
Program Information All Courses are 3 Credus 
• Comparative Citizenship • Conflict of Laws 
• International Emironmenral Law• International Dcbcor-Crediror Relations 
• The program has been approved by the ABA 
For More Information: 
• 
Complete _the coupon beloiv, clip and mail to: ~Iariela Torres. St Thomas Law School-Spain Program '16400 NW 32 AYe. >liami, FL 33054 

• 
Visit our web si~e: ~~.stu.edu/lawschooL·spain/spaintex.htm. 

• 
Email us: mtorreslsru.edu, 


• Call: Mariela Torres ·ac 305.623.2325·or Fax us a request at 305.623.2390 .-......................................................... . 
. SUMMER IN SPJUN PROGRAM • May 27 .June 27, 2000 Bl Escorial -Madrid 
• Name--------------------------­
• Address---------------------------­
•· 

· City/State/Zip---------------------­
• 
Telephone------------------------­

• 
How did you hear about the program? ----------------­: Current law Schooi_________________,________ 


.................-.................•........................ . 

orld 


w__.Jnesday, february 23, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.N. claims success 
in East Timor 
DILi, East Timor 

After live months of restoring r.alm to an East Timor devastated by rampaging militias, an Australian-led force will leave the recovering territory Wednesday to the U.N. administrators who will guide it toward full independence. When the 19-nation force was deployed in September. East Timor was in chaos. with build­ings on tire and gunshoL~ from anti-indepcn­denr.c militias and maverick Indonesian troops crhoing arross thP rnpital. DUL 1\Jow. hundrPds of' thousands of East Timorese who were forced to nee the bloody mayhem are trying to rebuild their shattered lives and hope their homeland will be independent within a few years. 
Russia struggles to pay back debts 
MOSCOW 

Few countries would bn better candidates than Hussia for Debtors Anonvmous. The Russian government owes billioi{s of dollars, rnfuses to pay back billions of dollars and wants to borrow billions of dollars more. ll'> reputation has vet to recover from its disastrous 1998 defa~lt on about two-thirds of the $150 billion debt it owes foreign lenders. Yet Russia desper­ately needs help from just those lenders: It still has massive debts and argues it doesn't have enough money to pay them. Over the last several months. the government has tried to persuade !enders to write off its old debts. At the same time, it wants to restore the credibility it needs to regain access to foreign capital markets ­and get more loans. So far. Russia's formula seems to be working. 
Election violence kills 13 in India 
PATl':A. India 

ViolPnt dashes and paramilitary raids left 13 people dead Tuesday during a crur.ial state par­liamrntary election in Bihar, widely regarded as the most lawless placP in India. Three other statr1s held lr.gislative, p]pctions Tuesday, includ­ing Orissa, Haryana and Manipur. Tuesday's violence in the final phase of voting in Bihar, though. brought the statp,'s death toll for the elections to 45. In two earlier rounds this month. 32 people were killed and 50 were wounded. Federal Hapid Action Force paramilitary com­rnandoes gunned down seven men who were trying to steal and illegally mark ballot papRrs in Bihar's northern Beetiah election district. local election officer Sudhir Prasad said. Six others were killed in dashes in Bihar's northern dis­trict-; that border Nepal. Bihar police had been ordered to shoot people trying to stuff ballot boxes or indulging in violence during the elec­tion. which is widely expected to he won by members of Prime '.\llinister Atal Bihari V,~jpayee's coalition. which governs nationally. 
•fillil#litlt&iM•ll
Dow AMEx: 
934.46 

]ONES +2.so Nasdaq:
+85.32 
4382.12 
-29.62 
NYSE: 
590.12 ~3.45

•[] 

S&P 500: Composite 1352.17 
Volume:

10304.84 980,317,0!i(>
+6.08 
VOLUME LEADERS 

C'OMPANY TIC'Xl'!I. '-CN.ANCR l c~~ ERIC!' 
VERTICAL COMPUT VCSY .. 31.95 +(). 0 0137 3.H OM.CLI C'ORP ORCLr •1.29 +O. 1.475 59. ll MlCKOSCll''f COlilP MSFT -1. 32 ~1. 25'.lS Sil.Bl en.co BYST£11S csco -1.4.9 -l,8125 lll.H ANBRH'"A ONLINI: AOL -1. 18 -1.000 19.62 oLOa.u. caoss INO ca1,x -7 .11 -3,7550 ca.n DILL COMPUTER DELI. -o.u -O.J.525 39.8l !NTEL CO'!tt INTC . L:'l0 . 1.l750 :1.0,. 75 PttAlt.MOE COAP PARS HS.00 +2,2~00 1. 45 BUN MICk.OUS'J;BM SYNW -!t.19 -•-6125 89. OQ 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
RUSSIA 


ment on the report. But Defense Minister Igor accounts of a massacre of 
Associated Press 

Russian strategists Sergeyev said the fighters Chechen civilians that could 
remained concerned about "have no way out anymore," be the worst atrocity of the 
GROZNY a rebel resurgence. and Interfax reported. war. 
Thousands of rebels in 

have warned repeatedly But the rebels. skilled in The group said at least 62 Chechnya's mountains have over the past weeks that guerrilla techniques, have people died in Aldi, on the 
.. no way out" as Russian 

rebels are planning substan­repeatedly shown during outskirts of Grozny, in a forces backed by artillery tial attacks for Wednesday. the 5-month-old war that two-day rampage that 
and air attacks close in on The day is both a Hussian they are able to slip through began Feb. 5. It said about them. Russia's defense min­

holiday honoring the mili­Russian lines. They have 100 soldiers systematicallyister said Tuesday. tary and a traditional mounted surprise attacks on robbed and shot civilians. About 20,000 Russian Chechen commemoration of Russian-held towns, and The troops also committed troops nearly completed a the beginning of their mass many fighters broke out of several rapes and hurled 
blockade of the Argun 

deportation to Central Asia the capital. Grozny, this grenades into basements Gorge, a key passage into 
in 1944 under Soviet dicta­month, even though the city where residents were hid­the rugged slopes of tor Josef Stalin. was encircled. ing, the group said, citingChechnya's mountains. the Apparently in response to In the ruins of Grozny, survivors' accounts. 
military said Tuesday. 

those concerns, Russia troops appeared tense on Russia has repeatedly
Russian warplanes and heli­

closed all its border cross­Tuesday, generally sticking denied reports that its 
copter gunships flp,w more ings into Chechnya on close to their checkpoints troops have taken part in than 150 combat missions 
Tuesday. Russia previously and bunkers. Soldiers were atrocities. 
over the area in 24 hours. it 

has shut border crossings overheard discussing While Russian aircraft said. for periods ranging up to rumors that the Chechen slammed the mountains The Interfax news agency, several days at a time. warlord Khattab was lead­with bombs and rockets,
citing sources at a Russian 

In southern Chechnya, the ing a band of 700 fighters to troops moving toward the base in Khankala, said a rebels maintained their tight attack Gudermes, rebels' mountain stronghold 
Hussian helicopter was lost grip on the village of Duba­Chechnya's second-largest of Shatoi seized heights near 

Tuesday in the Argun 

Yurt at the entrance to the city. the villages of Makhkety and Gorge. The Defense Ministry Argun Gorge, according to Human Rights Watch said Selmentazhen, the military
made no immediate com-the news agency Interfax. Tuesday it had documented said. 

Senate hopes to monitor Iran arms deals 
Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, waive sanctions for national securi­Associated Press R-Miss., said he hoped the legisla­ty reasons. WASHINGTON tion would help the reformers Tho bill also says the United 
Brushin){ aside opposition from against those bent on harming the States could make payments to the the administration, the Senate is United States. Russian space agency for helping moving to compel the president to "The danger is still there, and build the International Space be more aggressive in tracking those who are in charge of nuclear Station only after the president Russia and other countries that proliferation in Iran have a very determines that Russia is actively supply weapons materiel to Iran. strong grip on what's being done." opposing proliferation in Iran. 
The bill. taken up by the Senate Lott said. The bill "sends a message to our Tuesday, also could restrict pay­Under the legislation, the presi­friends in Russia about the intensi­ments to Russia in connection with dent would b.e required to submit ty of our concern about their part the International Space Station. reports to Congress every six in helping Iran devp,Jop weapons of The bill is expected to win the months to identify countries pro­mass destruction," said Sen. Senate's overwhelming approval viding Iran with materiel to pro­Joseph Lieberman, D-Conn. He said when lt votes Thursday, much as mote its missile and weapons sys­it also reminds the administration similar legislation sailed through tems. of "the broad bipartisan concern the House last September, 419-0. The president would have the here in Congrnss in support of 
The bill came up as Iran counted option of cutting off arms sales or tougher action against any nation, votes in an election expected to put economic aid to nations helping including Russia," that boosts pro-reforrn politicians in power. Iran's weapons programs. He could Iran's weapons program. 
Judge rules against Guiliani's proposal 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

A judge ruled Tuesday that New York City may not force homeless adults to accept workfare jobs in exchange for city shelter, a decision that was immedi­a t e l y blasted by M a yo r Rudolph Giuliani. 
Justice Stanley Sklar said the law city offi­cials cite in support of' the requirement may be consti­tutional, but it violates a consent decree that requires the city to give shelter for every needy adult who seeks it. 
Giuliani, who has pushed to put the workfare rules into effect. denounced Tuesday's decision. saying. "I expect the Court of Appeals to reverse it pretty quickly." 
"Justice Sklar is clinging to his desire for a city of dependents."the mayor said. 
Mary Brosnahan. execu­tive director of the Coalition for the Homeless. called the ruling a "legal slam­dunk"and said Sklar "recog-

n iz e d th at t Ii e con s 1n1 t decree's f'undanrnntal pur­pose was lo savo human life." 
Under the eity program known as workfare, w<'ll'are recipients are put to work by 
city departments. 
The law requiring the homeless to work stems from a 1995 regulation issued by the · state Department of' Social Services at the city's request. It requires anyone seeking shelter in 1\JAw York -even for one night -to comply with welfare eligibil­ity rules. 
But in 1981 and 1983, the citv signed consent derrncs in which it agrned to provide shRltflr to every needy, sin­gle adult who asked for it. 
Sklar ruled th,tt tho con­sent decrees hold. 8ecause the agreements only covrr single people. lawyers l'or the homeless could ask the courts to extend the ruling to homeless families with children. 
The city did win a work­fare ruling in the state's highest court Tuesday. The Court of Appeals upheld a ruling allowing the city to pay people on workfare min­imum wage rather than the higher wages regular work­ers genPrally get for the same jobs. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME'S UPWARD BOUND PROJECT: 
WANT TO GAIN SOME VOLUNTEER EXPERIENCE? INTERESTED IN TUTORING HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS? 
IF SO, THEN YOU CAN VOLUNTEER WITH THE UPWARD BOUND PROGRAM AT ND. SUBJECTS TUTORED INCLUDE ALG/TRIG, GEOMETRY, SCIENCE, HISTORY, ETC. 
TUTORING TAKES PLACE ON CAMPUS IN 20 l DBRT ON: MON. 5-6:30 WED 6-7:30 TUES. 5-6:30 THURS 5-6:30 
PLEASE CONTACT THE UPWARD BOUND OFFICE AT 631-5669 

Sophomores & all May 2002 Grad! $CHOLAR$HIP$ AVAILABLE NOWI 

If you are in one of the following majors, you canearn over s1?,000 a year in AFROTC scholarship benefits Chemistry, Comp Info Systems,_ Comp Science, Math, Physics, Foreign Area Studies, or Languages Engineering majors: Aeronautical, Aerospace, Chemical, Civil, Computer, E!ec., Environmental, Industrial, Mech., or Nuclear 


Don't waste a moment! tact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
Riley: School should be year-round 
Associated Press 

DLIHIAM, N.C. 
U.S. 1-iducation Secretary llichard Hiley said Tuesday that tnachnrs must be better paid and work vear · round if Amnrican scl{ools arc to shed uutdatnd ways and improve. 
"We have an old agrari·an schedule, an outdated factory model and an antiquated wage system." Riley said during his annual address on the state of American Pducation. 
The address, Riley's seventh and final. was made before stu­dents. elected of'l1cials and edu­f'ators at Durham's Southern High School, a previously low­perJ'orming public school that turnnd itself around. 
"For the last I 00 years, American education has been dnf'innd by 1:erlain assump­tions," l{i(r,y said. 
"One assumption was that tho job o{' a teacher lasted nine months. The second assump­tion was that we would always have a ready supply of dedicat­ed teachers, mostly women, who for relatively low wages would teach our children their lessons." 
Riley said he wasn't propos­ing year-round schools for all children. lie said school sched­ules were better left to local school boards. 
But he said: "I believe that making teaching .a year-round profession is the future of American education." 
Kathleen Lyons, spokes­woman for the 2.5 million member National Education Association teachers' union, said Riley's proposal is wel­come. 
"They are being compensated for much less than what they are actually working. The year­round plan and increased pay would move us toward treating teachers as professionals and compensating them as they deserve," she said. 
She said a teacher's work year could be up to 10 months. The average salary for a public school teacher was $40,582 during the 1998-99 school year. 
Riley said teachers' pay is not catching up with the demands made on them. Recent studies 
show that the annual income gap between experienced teachers with masters' degrees and people in other fields with the same level of education is at least $32,000. 
"In this time of economic prosperity, with state coffers expanding, there can be no excuse for shortchanging onr students and their teachers," Riley said. 
Hiley released a 29-point report card on education show­ing improvements in reading, math and science scores, tech­nology and opportunities for disabled students. But the report card also showed a worsening of student college debt, the gap in Internet access between poor and wealthy schools and drug use. 
In the ncpuhlicans' official response to Riley's speech, Rep. Heather Graham, R-N.M., said Congress over five years has spent $1 billion more than the Clinton administration has requested. 
Graham said education deci­sions must bP made locally "by somebody that knows your child's name." 

Wednesday, February 23, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
NORTHERN IRELAND
RUSSIA 
IRA refuses to disarm,
Troops bla01ed for Inassacre 
demands own terms 
Associated Pres.s 
MOSCOW 

Russian troops rampaged through a suburb of the Chechen capital, killing at least ri2 civilians in what could be the worst such mas­sacre in the Chechen war. an international human rights group said Tuesday. 
Interviews with survivors revealed that about 100 sol­diers systematically robbed and killed civilians in the Grozny suburb of Aldi on Feb. 5-6, according to Human Rights Watch, a New York­based organization. 
Russictn offirials have vehe­mently denied that federal troops took part in any atroci­ties against civilians. 
But the group cited sur­vivors as saying the Russian troops also committed several rapes and hurled grenades into basements where resi­dents were trying to hide. 
The reported rampage came a few days after most rebels fled the city, and Russian troops were moving to nush out the holdouts. 
"We are absolutely shoc:ked by this evidence." said Malc:olm Hawkes, a Human Rights Watr.h spokesman. '"It's the worst case documented so far." 
1lawkes said Human Rights 
Watch had "c:onvincing evi­Walch claims to have docu­
dence" of 82 deliberate 111ur­rne11ted. ders in Aldi, of which 62 have The pnwious killings were been documented. lfo said the an alleged massacre of some 

Associated Press
group wuuld roleas,, the list ol' 40 civilians in Lhe village of victims and full details later .'\!khan-Yurt in early BELFAST
this week after it checks the Dec(:mber and an ,~nsuing 
The Irish Republican Armyremaining 20 ca.ses. rain page in l~ruzny's said Tuesday it was unwilling

Vladimir Kalarnanov. Staropromyslovsky rngion in 

to start disarming as part of aappointed last wnek by acting which 41 p('OplP dic;d. 
package of ronciliatory stepsPresident Vladimir l'uti11 as Tlw rPµorL uf L!w laLLer vio­involving the British militaryhuman rights cornmissio1wr l<rncP camri in eady Fobruary. 
in Northern Ireland.
for Chechnya, prornisnd and the gov1~rnment hotly An TRA spokesman, briefingTuesday to check itll allega­denied it. 

journalists in Belfast, dis­
tions that r.ivilians were bning "While Limy W(:re busy 

missed suggestions that the
murdered, but he refrained denying reports about killings British army could take partfrom discussing specific cases in Staropromyslovsky. an even in a proposed "day of recon­brfore mak-wo rs(' mas­

ciliation," during which the
ing a trip to sacre was
"fl 's important to protect 

outlawed IRA would be
the region. occ u 1'1'ing," 

expected to begin scrapping
"If th r, civilians. but u·e must llaV\,kes 

its weapons in support of
authorities also protect the rights of said. 

Northern Ireland's 1998
abused their l•ollowing
soldiers and of(tcials. " 

peace accord.
position. tlw rampage 
The governments of Britainthey must bP in Aldi. the and Ireland -which in March

punished," Vladimir Kalamanov Hussian sol­

1999 proposed creating a rec­he said. diers threat­
human rights commissioner 

onciliation-themed holiday as
At th P e n e d 

a way to ern.;ourage disarma­
same time. revenge 

ment -have resurrected the
he said he would also see tlrnt against survivors who talked idea at a moment when politi­the soldiers' rights weren't about it, Jlawkes said. 

cal progress appears to hinge
violated. Reports of' atrocities by 

on persuading the IRA to drop"It's important to proll:ct Russian troops, corning on top its blanket refusal to disarm.
civilians, but we must also of the indiscriminate slrnlling 
"The decommissioning ofprotr,ct the rights ol" soldiers of citic~s and villages, have. 

weaponry must be a voluntary
an cl O t'['j Ci al S . " Ka Ia 111 a 11() V drawn strong international 

act," the IRA spokesman saidsaid. "l ran't rl'i'usP my prn­prot(•sts. 
on condition of anonymity. "Ittection to the rnprnsenlativ('s Tlw militarv has continued 
will not be influenced or
or the federal authorities."' to rlaim that ·heavy bombings linked in any way with movesThe reportc~d massa1:n: in and shdlings have spared 

bv the British crown forces,
Aldi was the third mass killing civilians, dcspiLP abundant ~ho are obliged to demilita­of civilians that Human Hights evidenl'.e to the contrary. 

rize in any event." 
The IRA's unwillingness to move on the issue compelled HPC Date Week Proudly Presents 
Britain earlier this month to 
withdraw powers from the 
province's power-sharing 
Cabinet. a four-party coalition formed in December under terms of the accord. 
The coalition took shape after the major Protestant 
Co-Ed Naked* 
Twister 

party. the Ulster Unionists, agreed to work alongside the IRA-linked Sinn Fein party in expectation that IRA disarma­
:$ .
-#~· 

ment would begin in
;.~ ....'1/fJ ~ ~ 
·~,;J:.,*~ 

response. 
The IRA spokesman ruled out the possibility of the out­lawed group offering a disar­mament "gesture" before the Cabinet's reinstatement. 
Britain is supposed to pub­lish a plan for withdrawing 
ef·~::f 
/~ 

troops and closing army bases under terms of the peace accord in response to the cease-tires being observed by the IRA and outlawed pro­British groups, But Britain has yet to do so, although it has already withdrawn about 3,000 troops and closed sever­al major bases, 
A spokesman for Prime Minister Tony Blair. speaking on condition of anonymity, said Tuesday that the govern­ment was considering "a day when all involved in the con­flict would be able to mark, in their own way, the end of the conflict." 
This might mean the IRA and outlawed pro-British groups would each identify a hidden cache of weapons to the province's disarmament commission, while the British army would begin demolition of another base or withdraw another unit. 
The authorities' efforts to impound IRA weaponry con­tinued Tuesday. 
During raids on homes in a Catholic section of Dungannon, 40 miles west of Belfast, police seized plastic explosive, detonators, two assault rifles, four handguns, ammunition and telescopic sights. One man was arrested. 
Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams invited several other Northern Ireland parties to a Belfast meeting to discuss the urgency of re-establishing the Cabinet -but only two people showed up. Neither was a Cabinet member. 
Adams' party deputy, Martin McGuinness, departed for the United States, where other key players in the peace process have begun lobbying the White House and Irish­.American leaders for support. 
Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble, leader of the sus­pended Cabinet, visited the White House on Monday. Britain's Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Mandelson, who stripped the Cabinet of power, is expected there later this week. 
4..-,, 
Notre Dame Film, Television and Theatre oresents 
./, . 
..,. ~-"'-",
.,-,,. 
.. 
., 
.J 
.... ~'u ·. ~ .· ­
1trs1tl'., 0 ~/ 

't 
. . _,.) 1
~" Grab afriend and adate 

. . '7,~:·;t·
Wednesday, Feb 23@9:30PM 

.-:,,(
in McGlinn's 24-hour lounge. 

.,..•-,~-~-­
Over $200 ofpizza, sodies and prizes. 

Attors fro111 tl1e Lo11do11 Stag't:
Co-Sponsored by McGlinn Hall and ~orin (oUege 

All's Well That Ends Well 
*the 'naked' is merely an adjective of possibility: in all reality,nobody will  by  William  ShakespP.are  
get naked, although ... you wouldn't wanl to miss it if they Jid, now would you?  Sunday Matinee. February 20 .......... 2:30 pm  Thursday. February 24 ...................... 7:30 pm  
Wednesday. February 23 ................. 7:30 pm  Friday. February 25 ........................ 7:3U pm  

Saturday. February 26 ......-................ 7:30 pm 
,\mericai1 lfr.trt ~ 

Pla~ng at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats S16 • Seniors S14 • All Students S12
A stroke can As~o'..':lllu,:!·V 

Tickets available ar Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128.
be a · d---.,. ,,, 

The residency of Actors from che London Stage 1s sponsored. in parr by ,he Henkels Lacrure Senes.
Reduc1.· your
blQWfilg thing _
risk factors 


r--------------------------------------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
PO Bo, Q. Norre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, l\'oue Dame, fN 465S6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MA.'iAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Rvan  David Rogero  
kisT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Lanf'1 Perelle  

NEW5 EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brion Kessler 
SCE.N£ EDITOR: Mi~h.iel Vancg.is SI\JNT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dafum 

ADVERTISING MANAGER.: Bryan Lutz. 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Brer Hudat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: f-.llchad Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR.: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAl'HIC.S EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANIIGEn/CENERAL (NF0..............631-7471 FAX................ ....................... 631692"7 ADvrnn~JNG.....................................631-6900/8840 
obser.-er@daiwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF................................... 631-4'542 MANAGING Eono1t/AssT. ME............ : ....... 63 l -4 541 BUSINESS OFFICL ..................................... 631-5313 NEWS.................................. ........................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPO!KL...............................................631-5303 
observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS.................................. .....................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCEr-lE......................................................... 631-4540 
obser.-er.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MIIRv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .... ............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobseroer.nd.edu for daily updares ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-rhe 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
co meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminiscration ofeither insrirution. The Observer reserves rhe right co refuse advertisements based on content, 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparrmenc editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily ,hose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include, contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelle Krupa. 
OBSERVER 


• 
"You are nut the kind of girl guys want to date. You arc the kind thAy want to marry." 
I am convinced that when I atLeutled the graffiti dance almost four years ago, I must have had a sign on my fore­head that said in big letters, ·Tm a nice girl, and nice girls haw to be respected, treated like ladies at all times. And if you do those things, it doesn't mean you are going to get any." 
A close guy friend of mine told me that most men have radar. They can tell who and what they can get out of a young woman within the first few minutes of meeting her. This amazed me. I did not think I sent any signals of any sort, but my list of guy "friends" was steadily getting longer. Anything more was pretty much non-existent. 
I grew frustrated. I was tired of all of my friends telling me that when "it" happened, "it" would b11 real. Well, what was this "it'" they knew so much about? Then I was told my expectations were too high. That I should lower my standards a little. That I was "bigh­maintenancc." Is that what asking for respect and honesty is'? "High mainte­nance?" 
On top of these comments, I would see and hear stories about men saying they wanLed a "nice girl." The problem is, many of these same men want a dif­ferent girl every night who they can call, see and deal with when they feel like it. 
I used to ignore the fact that the guys who treated me with respect and asked how 1was doing also asked someone else -rumored to have a negative rep­utation -what she was doing later that night. l dcvr.loped this theory that all men had a split personality. They treated "nice girls" like nice girls but 


went homo with the other kind. 
At some point in all of my frustration, I accepted the fact that my split person­ality theory was wrong. This allows for excuses. That is not how it should be. It is not acceptable to be with someone for the sake of getting something from them. Even if you heard they were giv­ing it out for free, this does not make it right What does this say about the character of a man who is a gentleman only half of the time. 
Women. You say you want a "nice guy." You say you want a. guy who treats you like a queen, takes you out on dates and opens every door for you. Do you actually think you will meet this Prince Charming while you are dancing in a cage at Heartland? 
·we are so quick to say "men suck" when we have an experience with a jerk. We are so quick to blame men for our frustrations when what we should do is look to ourselves and ask, "What type of man do I want?" and, "What type of man am I attracting?" A former Domer said this: "Men take a lot of crap, but it's not all their fault because if women wouldn't put up with all of the junk they do, then men would be forced to change." 
There are a lot of nice guys out there who are waiting for their princesses. Imagine how they feel when a girl says to them, "You are such a nice guy. I wish I could find someone like you." Then she runs off to call her pseudo­boyfriend for the fifth time in one day hoping that this time he'll pick up the phone instead of screening her call on caller ID. Maybe this time it'll be differ­ent 
Women see men as potential. We often see how a man may be in the future. We often think that "he's not ready now, but maybe in a few weeks ... " We tend to think that he may change if we look a little prettier, if we don't go out as much, if we call him more or less. The list goes on. 
We tend to think that we can mold 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
PUT TOGETHER A WHY CAN'T 
DEMO OF OUR NEW 

YOU BE MORE 
PRODUCT. OUR. 

Lil<E THAT?
CEO WANTS TO 
5EE IT. 
Wednesday, February 23, 2000 

them. This is our biggest mistake. Men see a woman and pay close attention to how she carries herself at that very moment. They see her first impression as the most important impression. 
If we are going to engage in healthy relationships, we must realize that it is possible to have fun, experience differ­ent people on various social levels and remain true to ourselves. It is when we do not actively try to change the pattern of negative dating that we become bit­ter. 
It saddens me when I see women dose to me engage in relationships that are dangerous to their minds and bod­ies. They keep going back to the jerks when there are many "nice" guys wait­ing to treat them with respect. It hurts when guys who you think are nice par­ticipate in activities that disgust and bewilder the many "nice" girls out there. 
A wise professor once told me to make a list of all of the things I wanted in a mate. His list went up to 100. His wife met 99. My list had 49 items on it. They ranged from "someone who looks at me in my eyes when I talk" to "some­one who knows to leave me alone on a bad day, but assures me that he is there when I need him." My nice guy met 48 items. 
There is no such thing as having stan­dards that are too high. There is no such thing as being "too high mainte­nance." There is someone out there for everyone. Do not compromise your beliefs. Do not change your soul to accommodate another. Do not be so quick to say that "there are no nice men left." 

By all means, do not give up. Whether you are a "nice girl" or a "nice guy," eventually, you'll meet each other when it is meant to happen. Believe me. 
Kimmi Martin is a senior at Saint Mary's College. Her column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Between men and women, there is no friendship possible. There is passion. enmity. worship, love, but no friendship." 
Oscar Wilde British author 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, February 23. 2000 OBSERVER page 9 
We are called to reconciliation 
It strikes me every Sunday at Mass how radical indet>d the Jubilee Year 2000 can be. 
As Catholics may know, Pope John Paul II has designated the year 2000 as a 
Rachel Morgan

Jubilee Year. 
Hecause 
For a More 

the year 
Just and

2000 
Humane

marks the 
World

beginning of a new millenni­um, it is a unique opportunity to celebrate 2000 years of Christ's prCSHfiCH and trans­forming effect in human histo­ry. It is a challenge to Christians to a renewed Affort Lo proclaim and live uut the Gospel in a way that transforms modern society and culture. 
Historically, there is evidence in the Hebrew scriptures of a practice of taking "the 50th year" as a jubilee year. In the words of scriptures. it was a time of "letting the land lie fal­low" and leaving the fruits of the land to the poor. It was a time of "releasing prisoners." It was a time to "forgive debts owed." It was a time of recon­ciliation with the land and with neighbors. 
In this Jubilee Year 2000, we also are being called to honor this Jubilee practice. Here at Notre Dame, efforts to cele­brate and educate aboul Jubilee Year 2000 will place emphasis on the theme of rec­onciliation and renewal. 
We will be challenged to practice reconciliation person­ally and collectively as a soci­ety. Do your new millennial res­olutions include bow you are going to practice jubilee justice and reconciliation in this Great Jubilee Year? 
Personally, maybe practicing reconciliation means reconcil­ing longtime conflicts with a family member. Maybe it means reconciling \•,;ithin your­self about your drug or alcohol habit and finally seeking the proper help. Maybe it means forgiving a debt owed to you. 
In considering what we need to reconcile as a society. maybe it means working towards the abolishment of capital punish­ment. Maybe it means working to end sweatshop labor and to pressure our institutions to be more accountable. Mavbe it means learning more about international debt and the bur­den it leaves on poor countries. 
• 
Over the next few months, the thrf"e campuses -Notre Dame. Saint Mary's and Holy Cross ­will launch the Campaign for Tntt>rnational Df"bt Helief. You will have the opportunity to learn about the effects of debt on heavily indebtP.d cuuntriPs and tu bear dircclly from peo­ple in those countries. The campaign will l'onsist or a vari­ety of speakers, artides and educatiorni.l efforts in residence halls. 
Tlte campaign will culminate in an \W(•nt. and call to action on April J. The pope, interdenom­inational groups and President Clinton have cal!Pd on the U.S. aud the international communi­ty to forgive the debts owed by the poorost countries. PresidPnt Clinton has taken a leadership ro!f~ to arlvan.,c the alleviation of some of tlw international debt owed to the U.S., but we. as U.S. citizens, have a lot more to do to insure the necessarv appropriations for proper debt relief. 
As many take the opportunity of the Jubilee Year to reflect and act upon 2000 years of Christ's prnsence in our world, will you also answer the call to Jubilee reconciliation -to "open the doors wide" -to be a "real presence" in our world that hungers for reconciliation and healing'' 
We arc being called to act as communities of faith for recon­ciliation with justice. It is a call to change economic and politi­cal structures that continue to oppress the poor and the needy in our world. It is a radical call with radical consequences, but it only takes a conversion of the heart and simple acts of ser­vice. Look for events with the Jubilee logo. Contact the Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry for more information on the Jubilee. Come out on April 1 to voice your support for international debt relief. · 
Rachel Tomas Morgan is the director of the Appalachia Seminar and the International Summer Service Program at the Center for Social Concerns. She also serves as the center's Jubilee 2000 Committee chair. Comments and discussions are welcome at ND. ndcntrsc. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

lceep 'ein coining. viewpoint. l@11d.edu 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Community thanks students 
On Saturday, Feb. 12, dents who signed Jeff Goett's 
I want to thank all of the stu­
Barnes & Noble Booksellers on ''Get Well" banner on Feb. 1 Grape Road hosted a Book Fair and 2. I talked to Jeff on the 
in conjunction with Liberty Elementary School in 
phone this weekend and he was extremely grateful, 
Mishawaka. Many volunteers For those of you who don't from the school and communi­know. Jeff Goett is a freshman 
ty helped to make it a great in Fisher Hall who is missing 
success. the entire second semester 
Thre!" Notre Dame football because of testicular cancer. 
players donated° a part of their I met Jeff in my calculus 
Saturday to read and speak to class and he quickly became 
the kids on the importance of one of my best friends here. He 
reading. Grant Irons, Gerald­is incrPdibly friendly and fun to 
Morgan and Jabari Holloway be around, and he remains 
encouraged a crowd of kids positive and upbeat in his bat­
and stayed for pictures and tl8 against cancer. Those who 
autographs. Too often we hear only the want to wish Jeff well can e­mail him at jsgoett@aol.com. 
negative of today's student­
He said that having to stay in athletes. However, these young the hospital while he under­men represented their univer­goes chemotherapy is not only 
sity well with their politeness, difficult but also boring, so I 
enthusiasm and humor. Their know that he would appreciate 
willingness to participate was some e-mail. 
a positive example and we truly appreciate them. 
Nicholas Sweedo 
Liberty Elementary School PTA Keough Hall 
Freshman Mishawaka, Ind. 
February 15, 2000 February 20, 2000 


More federal funding needed 
Professor Rice's Feb. 22 Viewpoint column on the skyrocketing tuition at Notre Dame and the rapid expansion of the size of the campus rais­es many valid points, and I must admit that I agree with most of them. 
Pricing a Notre Dame tuition out of the reach of most potential students seems elitist and un­Christian to me. 
However, I feel more compelled to respond to his statement claiming the "primary form of financial aid remains the student loan." 
Professor Rice should realize that successive Republican administrations in Washington ­administrations that he has long demonstrated support for -have been hacking away at financial aid programs for American students for more than 30 years. Not only are tuitions at Notre Dame and other private colleges prohibi­tively expensive, but federal financial aid has just about whithered away to a few loans that burden students with debt years after gradua­tion. 
Then again, most Republicans have never had to worry about the high cost of college tufion. 
Jeff Jotz, '92 
Jersey Ciry, N.J. 
February 22, 2000 

Crowd mentality is pathetic 
Ijust got back from Acoustic Cafe and wit­nessed one of the saddest attempts at a song I have ever seen. 
As three guys made a mockery of the Holy Bible, a friend of mine had the guts to stand up for something she deemed intolerable. After taking the Bible from the per­former's hand. she simply stat­ed in front of the crowd something to 
•
the effect of, "This is a Catholic uni­versity ... This 
• 
is the Holy Bible." Then she left Acoustic Cafe. Of course, the rf"ndition of Bi.ble verses did not end there. These guys then proceeded to sing a very distasteful song about her. 

As l sat there in my seat and watched this unfold, I witnessed two things: a crowd laughing and a woman standing. A woman standing before those laughing and not afraid to announce her 
feelings. I, on the other hand, sat there expres­sionless with a feeling of disgust in the pit of my stomach. Was there a difference between those laughing and myself. who did nothing? It is pathetic what people can tolerate and that they go along with any­thing that a crowd denotes as OK. I write this just at the moment that the singer 
is apologizing to my friend, and it gives 
• 
me some
• 
hope, but during that moment as 
she stood

• ... 
before that crowd, there was little hope. It is too bad that 
people can bond together in such a situation and leave all values and respect behind. 
Amanda Sula Freshman Holy Cross Hall February 18, 2000 

' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' C 
s
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
page 10 Wednesday, February 23, 2000 
I'm not a racist 

Sounds of Ancient India come to ND 
Nancy Lesh is an 

Special to The Obsel'Ve, 
award-winning cellist who has devoted theThe Asian Indian 

last 20 years to the

Classical Music Society 
performance of

of Michiana, the lndia Dhrupad music on the
Assoriation of Notre cello. She studied forDame and the Notre 
six years in India withDame Office of 

ustad Zia MohiuddinInternational Student Dagar, the world-

Affairs are sponsoring 
renowned Dhrupasa concert of Indian maestro, and his

classical music featur­
prominent disciple,

ing Nancy Lesh, an 
Ritwik Sanyal. She has

award-winning Cellist 
given scores of

who plays Dhrupad, an 
Dhrupad recitals allancient tradition of 

over the world and hasIndian classical music. 

received rave reviews

The concert will bl~ in numerous publica­
held at the Auditorium tions. She is noted forof the Hesburgh Center her "animist tone" andfor International Peace "fluidity of expression."
Studies Friday at 7:30 Prior to her intensive 
p.m. 
study of Dhrupad

Uhrupad is the most 
Music, Nancy Lesh was

ancient style of a well-regarded con­Hindustani classical 
cert cellist. She has

music which has sur­been the co-principal
vived until today in its 
cellist of the Rome

original form. It traces 
Festival Orchestra andits origin to the ancient 

member of the

text of Sam Veda and 
Orchestra del Maggio

takes very sophisticat­Musicale of Florenceed musical and poetical and the Civic Orchestra
forms. A favorite of the of Chicago.
Great Moghuls, the rulers of India during 
Tickets will be avail­

the medieval period, able at the door.
this music became pop­
General admission is uIa r all over North 

$7; $ 5 for AICMS mem­

India during their 
bers and Notre Dame

reign. It is both an 
and Saint Mary's facul­instrumental and vocal ty; and, free for all stu­genre. 

dents. 

Write for 
Scene! 
call 631-4540 or e-mail us at scene@nd.edu 
All Irish-Americans are alcoholics. 
All African-Americans are intellectually inferior. 
All Asian-Americans are poor drivers. 
All ltalian-A . .mericans are associated with the nmli.:1. 
All Mexican-Americans are lazy. 
All Polish-Americans are dumb. 
All European-Amerkans are rhythmically challenged. 
As you look at the above statements. you are probably saying to yourself, "Of course I don'1. believe that those statements am true. I would rnwcr think that about. any group of people. Anyone who believes thosr statements is clearly a racist and I'm certainly not a ra.dst." Now pausf': and take a few minutt>s to search within yoursdf. Really look deep inside and try to tind those well-guard­ed places that might not make yuu particularly proud It's OK to acknowledge them. No one has to know. Aller University searching inside yourself. 
Counseling 

were you able to acknowledge 
Center

that. at some point iu your life you probably beliiwed aver­sion of at least one of the 
hPalth column 

above statemen1.s? If you answered ves. then that acknowledgement is a good thing. Recognizing your racial stereotypes is the nrst step to overcoming them. 
What are racial stereotypes and how do people devel­op them? Racial stereotypes are automatic and exagger­ated mental pictures that are held about all members of a particular racial group. When people are stereotyped based on race, individual diITerences aren't ta ' into 
Some people might say, "There's no harm in having racial stereotypes or making racial/etlmic jukes based on su~n•otypes. People tht1se days an-' so politically cornict and should just looson up. Anyway, there's always a ker­nel or truth in every stnreotyµe." 111 some instances, all of llw .ibove might be true. llm'l1'ver. in most cases. radal sLcrcotypes are harmful because they ignore the full humanity and uniqut:ness of a.II peoplo. When percep­tions of' di110rf'nt racPs are distortPd and sternotypical, it's d(~meaning, devaluing. limiting and hurtful to others. In some cases, thos11 who are ropcmtodly labBled in ncga­liw ways will b<'gin to devdop ff'elings of inff'riority. Sonwtirnes. l.hf'S(\ l'c!\lings of inferiority can lead to self­ru!lilling proph.ecies Lhat p<'rpr\tuatP th.e stereotype. li,Lt'.ial stereotypes can also l'ostPr f"<'nlings of hate and aggn•ssio11 that migh L hiad lo a !ills(• sense of entitlement ,11irl superiority. 1"or those individuafs who have power, tl1is ran l!~ad tu Lheir tmgaging in distTiminatory and rncisl. practices. 
llPcause of' tlrnir harmful pffo(:ts. c1 real commitment sho11ld be made to lr:, to o,en:omc racial stereotypes. This rnn be achieved by tirst acknowledging that every­OIH' i,; human and that people do harbor racial sLereo­t~'Pl\S. Next.. everyone should work lo become more aware ol'Uwir inner thoughts and r,rnlings and how they affot't their beliPls and .:1ctions When a person has a swrcolypical thought about a racial group, one should rollow it up with an alternative thought based on factual information that discounts the sten,ot.ype. This factual information can be obtained by l1mving their comfort wrws and exposing themselves to people of different ran,s. Also. p1,ople should be willing to engage in honest <liiili1gur. with otlwrs about race that at times might be 
From an early age. one learns to place people and object.s into categories. However, when very young, people tend to put less of an emphasis on attributing values to these categories. As one grows older and is influenced by parents, peers and the media, the tendency to label different racial groups as superior/good or inferior/bad increases significantly. Additionally, the less contact people have wiLh a particu­lar racial group, the more likely they will have negative feelings about the group. Also, any negative experiences that a person has with a member of a particular group will strengthen their racial stereotypes and creat,~ l'cars about particular races. Based on these fears, an us-ver­sus-them mentality then develops and tends to he selt~ protective in nature. As a result, people miss opportuni­ties to learn and thrive from these differences. 


Letterman's back, and his heart ~eems into it 
account. Because racial dillicult. riskv and uncomfort­stereotypes are so rigid, peo­able. l\lfld\a portrayals of dif­ple tend to ignore or discard ferent rac(lS that are realistic any information that is not and positive should be sought co~sistent ;vith the stereotype out. Attending churches, that has been developed plays, concerts and movies about the racial group. that celebrate diversitv will 
Racial stereotypes develop also broad1'n people's0 world­in a variety of ways. On a vicws. By gaining more very simplistic level. it's awarern!ss and knowledge human nature to categorize about racial groups, not only people. It's one way of mak­will rncial stereotypes lessen, ing a complex world simpler. but everyone will also become 
better equipped to educate and t:hallengn otlwrs about. their racial stereotypes. As p(:opln change themselves, they r:an elicit changes in oth­nrs lhrnugh tlrnir examples and the quality of their con­vnrsalions. In doing this, everyone works to create a soci­ety in whirh all races are valued, apprer:iated and nm braced. 
'f'l1e intent oflhis series ofarticles is not lo provide r;u1111seling hut /.o prouide information about a variety of mental health lopics. To seek help wilh your individual cwn·erns, please conlacl the lfni11ersilg Counseling C'enler at 631-7336 to .<;chedule an appointment. 
'/'lw views expressed in this article are I.hose ofthe au/lwr. nol necessarily those qfthe O/Jseri:er. 
By DAYID BAUDER AP T devision \v'rirer 
N'EW YORK 

llcart surgery didn't exactly turn David Letterman into a softy. 
On his first "Late Shovv" since his surgery, LettfHman was pre­dict ably full of jokes about it ­even saying he had a quintuple, rather than a doublt>, bypass because the hospital had a special on it. 
B u t a ft e r invi ti n g h is six doctors and two nurses from Neyv York-Presbyterian Hospital on stage, Letterman briel'ly fought back tears. 

"It was five weeks ago today that the men and ,vomen right here saved my lift•." he said. 
That. didn"t rnrrn.n tlrn doc­tors were immune from a I'm\. jabs. 
"I couldn't h.:ne beti11 rnorc proud when thes•' guvs carvPd thnir initials in rnt•," the :i2-year-old comic said, reforring to a Nev\' York obstetrician who rricnntly etched his initials i11ln a woman's abdomen al'tnr delivering hri'r bab~ by Caesarmrn section. 
Thi' show, shown :Vlo11d,ty night, was taped last Friday. 
Looking thlnrn~r but otlwr­wise lrnallhy. Lelltirman reached down lwir<' and tour.bed his toes bef'nr" his monologue. lie prom is(·d t.o show his scnr but didn'1. 
"1\l'tcr what l'v(i IJt\Cll t.hrough." he said, ''I'm just happy to be wearing clothes that opP11 in tho front." 

Ll'lterman said one of his dorlors bad been given a hard time when the conHJdian joked that l1is cholnsU•rol was 1>80 h<'l'ore 
surgically creating new paths for blood to now to his heart. 
"A bypass is what happened to me when I didn't get the 'Tonight Show,"' he said, a reference to NBC's decision seven years ago to pick Jay 
Leno over 
thn SL1rgcry. him lo
"After what /'z•e been
In n;,ditv, his rBplace 
r: h o I P s ie r o I through, I'm just happy to J o h n n y was 170 -Carson.
be wearing clothes that 
bu l his J c r r y
open in the front." 
f' a t h t' r ' s Seinfeld death from a walked hP,trt atlack David Letterman onstage dur­,dso m..tdc i n g
talk show host 
him a risk !'or Letterman's !wart dis-monologue. ,ms('. lw said. "What are 
.I 11.st lrnl'ore his s u rgPry. you doing here?" Seinfeld Letterman said. "My career asked. "I thought you were i'laslwd beforr. my oyns. I'm dead." t(~lling you sonwthing. It was 'Tm on CBS," Letterman mostly awkward. silunces." replied. "I ain't dead. Why 
Hi\ dc>scribl•d a heart bypass don't you go on home to your as a prnccdurn that involves wife?" 
Robin Williams, who appeared in surgical scrubs, and "Who Wants to Be a l\tlillionaire" host Regis Philbin were Letterman's first guests. Letterman first revealed •on the air that he needed heart tests during a chat with Philbin. 
One concession to his hoalth: it was Letterman's first show in which he wasn't sipping regular coffee. 
"Oh, God, I hate decaf­feinated coffee ... It's like low-alcohol gin. What's the point''" he said. 
Letterman still needs to take things slow as he recov­ers. Bill Cosby fills in as ''Late Show" guest host tonight, with Letterman returning to work Wednesday. Kathie Lee Gifford, Philbin's talk show partner, is Thursday's substi­tute. Letterman expects to work on Friday. 

page 11

Wednesday, February 23, 2000 
O'Neill Hall is ready to 'Let the Good Times Roll' 

By EMMETT MALLOY 
Assistant Scene Edi tor 
Ask any former resident of GracP !!all to sum up his experience in that dorm and usually the word "chaos" is used 
With more than GOO students span­ning 11 floors. Grace llall was leg­endary f'or its wild p,uties and loose enforcement of the rules. 1-lowcver. the ideals and traditions still live on through O'Neill llall, one of two male dorms on West Quads with roots in Grace. Opening in fall of 1996. O'Neill has alreadv established itself as a prominent ci'orm on campus. 
In ilially. many former residents of Grncn believed that O'Neill would never live up lo thP Gnu:P's legacy. but many now agree with the move. Kyln Shaw, an O'Neill RA who lived in the other twin lower. Flanner. felt that the move was good for Grace because "it moved students bar:k to thr center or campus, and plus the design or Grace was more for admin­istrative purposes than for student liv­ing." 
Although the residents of O'Neill are very proud of its Grace heritage, the dorm has also opted to create a tradi­tion or its own. Arguably the biggest dan('fi on campus. Mardi Gras has become something of a legend cntrr­ing into its fourth year. The dance was originally conceived by rormer hall president Brian Gaffney. who based his idea on the one in New Orleans. 
.. Basically' M wanted to find a niche. something to carry on for 30 years or so," explained Tim Casaln. a fourth vear rnsidcnt or O'Neill. and an HA. · The dance begins this Thursday night with tile King Contnsl, ,vhich f'eaturrs Sf'Vf'n cont.Pstants from evPry sPction competing for the right to be the King (lf the weekend festivities. With the past kings and tlw prnsidents of McGlinn as the~ judges, the contes­
tants l:onlcnd ror tlie Litle in a series o(' games ranging l'rom k.trokee to 
impersonation to best pickup line. This year fl'atures a new category: the Wlrnel o· Sl1am,,. Tim contestants must spin tlrn wheel and lhen doing whatever tlrn nrnrk1ir sele(:ls. 
Tim da11c<' officially bPgins with a parade. complete with !'!oats. around campus with the first slop al Crace lo pay lrnmag<' Af'Lnr lh,Lt. th1· parade go,1s to Mod Quad. then North. unto South and l'inally bark lo West ()uad \)u1·1ng tlw 11,tradP. participants sl<,p at tlw dorm of' tlw,ir dates to pick them up. Tim return of the parade to O'Nuill marks the starl ol' the biggest dorm event on campus. The dorm spends most of' its yearly budget on the event, 1.•ven foregoing Christmas decorations. Furthermore. each O'Neill rcsid1rnl is allowc>d to bring two datPs. making Mardi c;ras ,L hcav­ilv altf)nded 1wnnl. 
·1n less than !'our years, ()':,.Jcill has made a nanw for itself in athletics. O'Neill has won intramural champi­onships in soccnr, hockey. sol'Lball and cross-country. Perhaps tlw most rec­ognized facn was Gaffney. who was the three-tinw Bengal Bouts champion until he lost in the title fight last year. 
In addition. th<' dorm is very cr1m­mitted to social causes. A new pro­gram initiated this year involves send­ing a different section in the dorm to the Boys and Girls Club. Although the dorm does not have the tradition of older dorms on campus, dorm presi-

Spirited McGlinn: Livin' on the edge ­
By LAURA KELLY 
Scene Writer 
Where Notre Dame's golfors once shot the back nine holes now sits Mr,Glinn flail. one or the newest addi­tions lo Notre Dam,;'s residential halls. 
One of four West Quad dorms, :vlcGlinn opened in the fall of' 1997, a girt l'rom Notn; Dame alumnus and trustee Terrence McGlinn and his wife. Barbara. MrGlinn's first residents movPd from Knott Hall and wt;re joined by their rector Sister Kathy llaas. 
"It wets a big change for all of us to relocate from the north side of campus to the south," said Haas. "But v\'ith the renovation of the dining hall and the building or tile new bookstore. thr location has become ideal." 
Although some may still !'ind their home on the westernrnost rdgP of' W('St Quad a bit out or tlw way, soplwmon· Strphanir lloovrr pointi>d out that \1cG Ii n n is .. right by Rech r's and South !Dining llalll." making it ,t short walk f'or l'oucl or a place tn relax. 
McClinn is one of the larger dorms on campus. housing 270 womrn in two wings branching out from a central lobby. Despite its size, the hall main­tains thf' reeling of a small community. Acco1·ding to l'reshman Priscilla Ho, Mc(ilinn is a closn-knit dorm. "Our section spirit is rnally strong. We do a lot of activities together. like movie, nights and attending the pep ralliPs" 
Spirit runs strong in this dorm. Beginning with the Dillon Pep Hally. where many J\lcGlinn girls rnuld b,, seen decked out in togas, the Shamrocks are a visible group at all th() football rallies. True to tlwir mas­cot's name. Ro said her ldlow dorm-
of campus 
A resident of McGlinn himself, Father Don McNeil] often presides, coloring the service with stories of his work in Chile and as the director of the CSC here on campus. On other weekends, McGlinn residents offer their own reflections on the Gospel, making Mass even more personal. 
Living in a new dorm like McGlinn has many benefits: large rooms, air­conditioning and more social space. Ro described her excitement at learning she had been placed in one of the new dorms: "When I talked with my room­mate for the first time, I couldn't believe we had gotten in McGlinn -I figured the newer, nicer dorms would only be for upperclassmen." 
Although new dorms like McG!inn lack the history of their older counter­parts, the Shamrocks are determined to establish their own traditions. One McGlinn tradition is the West Quad for­mal, held each year with Keough. O'Neill and Welsh Family. Another annual event quickly becoming a favorite is Casino Night, a fundraiser for the Catholic Worker House in South Bend. In this spring event, gaming and karaoke are held throughout the night as guests compete for prizes donated from area and campus businesses. Each McGlinn woman can invite a cer­tain number of guests, who make a charitable donation fur their part in the night's festivities. 
"Everybody loves Casino N°ight because you can bring three dates!" said Hoovflr. 
Events like these, which not only entertain but also benefit a worthy cause, give McGlinn its character as an energetic, upbeat dorm. Echoing the sentiments of her rector and fellow Shamrocks, Ro said, "I love McGlinn. I wouldn't want to be anywhere else." 

.matns am 1•asy to spot in a crowd ­"W1i Wt:iar a lol ul' gr1:n1J!" Whiln Sist1·r Kathy dPsnibcs h1,r womnn ns "n spirilnd bu1u·h." the 

Shamrocks also come together each Sunday night on a quieter note. True to Notre Dame traditions, McG!inn Masses have their own unique flavor. 
dent Matt Alles welcomes the chal­lenge. "As tough as it is to start new things, it gives us the opportunity to begin a tradition that will be going on for years to come," Alles remarked. 
MEN'S ,NCAA BASKETBALL 
Cr"imson Tide upsets archrival, 11th-ranked Tigers 
Associated Pres, 
TUSCALOOSA Ala. 

Terrance MAade made two free throws with 3.8 seconds to play Tuesday night, helping Alabama seal a 68-64 upset over No. 11 Auburn and snap­ping the Crimson Title's four­game losing streak to the Tigers. 
Alabama's crowd -its first se.llout of the season -stormed the court and Tide coach Mark Gottfried grabbed a microphone and thanked the fans for com­ing. 
Scott Pohlman gave Auburn (21-5, 9-4 Southeastern Conference) a 64-63 lead with a driving layup with 1 :09 to play. 
Alabama (12-13, 5-8) regainnl the lead on Rod Grizzard's 3­pointer -his fifth of the night -that put the Tide up 66-64 with 55 seconds to go. 
Pohlman and Doc Robinson both missed 3-point attempts at the other end -Robinson's was partially blocked by Grizzard ­and the ball went out of bounds. Meade was fouled on the inbounds pass and made both his shots. 
Robinson and Pohlman both missed 3s again at the other end and Alabama got the rebound off Pohlman's miss. 
Grizzard, a freshman forward, led Alabama with 25 points and successfully battled Auburn's Chris Porter all night. Porter, a senior, led Auburn with 21 points and 12 rebounds. 
The loss was costly for Auburn, which saw 7-foot senior center Mamadou N'diaye go down with a knee injury midway through the first half. N' diaye was caught in a collision under the basket on Schea Cotton ·s driving layup and an initial diag­nosis revealed a sprained knee. 
It also opened the door for No. 15 LSU to move into a tie with Auburn for the SEC West lead with a win Wednesday at South Carolina. 
With N'diaye out, the Tide first tried to move inside and attack the glass. When that didn't 
CLASSIFIEDS 
work, Alabama pushed its game outside in the second half and found success with a succession of 3-pointrrs and 15-foot jumpers to build a 52-46 lead ­its largest of the game -with 
8:45 to play. 
It then turned into the Porter vs. Grizzard show. For every layup Porter muscled in, Grizzard answered with a long jumper or a 3. 
After Porter's spinning jumper with 3:50 to play cut Alabama's lead to 58-57, Grizzard hit a 3 to make' it 61-57. Porter then scored on a layup and Robinson hit a jumper and made a free throw to give Auburn a 62-61 lead with 2:20 to go. Alabama's Erwin Dudley put the Tide bar.k up 63-62, Alabama's last basket until Grizzard's 3-pointf'r. 
No. 19 Maryland 76, 
Clemson 63 
Lonny Baxter scored 25 points, leading No. 19 Maryland to a victory over Clemson. 
Baxter's· fast break dunk with 
3:43 left gave Maryland (20-7, 9-4 Atlantic Coast Conference) its biggest lead at 74-52. 
Clemson's Will Solomon won the battle of the ACC's top scor­ers, finishing with 12 points. Solomon and Maryland's Juan Dixon both came in averaging 
21.6 points in league play. Dixon scored 11 points. 
The win extended Maryland's ACC win streak to seven games and was the Terrapins' fifth straight over the Tigers (9-17. 3­10). 
The second half was a verita­ble foulfest, with Maryland com­mitting 12 fouls in the second half and Clemson committing 
11. Both teams combined for seven fouls in one 1 :26 stretch. 
Maryland reached the bonus with 13 :31 left, and Clemson was in the bonus 1 7 seconds later. 
Baxter scored 16 points before halftime, single-handedly staving ofT a Clemson rally mid­way through the first half. 

The Tigers usi;d an 8-0 run to game, is out indefinitely after lead on Jamaal Tinsley's 3­
pull within 22-16 with 10:01 being diagnosed with mononu­pointer at the buzzer and lead­left. But Maryland answered cleosis this week. ing the rest of the way. with a 10-0 run of its own, the 13attier, Carrawell and Jason Tinsley and Stevie Johnson first five points coming from Williams Pach played the first 39 each scored 12 points. with Baxtor, to go up 32-16. minutes, while Dunleavy's main Johnson getting all of his in tlrn 
Stev(m Blake scored I 4 points sub, Nick Horvath, scored 13 second half on 5-for-5 shooting. for Maryland. points. He made three 3-point­This night belonged to Fizer. 
Clemson was paced by Adam ers in the second half. who scored on drives, dunks Allenspach's 20 points and 10 Duke was leading 66-58 with and turnarounds and even made rebounds. 11 :48 left as the Demon Deacons two 3-pointers. lie also grabbed were playing their best offensive nine rebounds, handed out a game in months. !Jut Battier career-high live assists, blocked
No. 2 Duke 96, 

banked in an off-balance 3-two shots and made two steals. 
Wake Forest 78 

pointer with the shot clock run­The previous high for the 6­
No. 2 Duke won its fourth 
ning down and was fouled. foot-8 junior. who missed his straight /\CC regular-season title The junior complded the four­l"irst four shots, had !men '.l2 
outright, getting a career-high point play as Duke went on a against Oklahoma State last sea­34 points from Shane Battier in 
21-7 run to seal its champi­son. 
a victory over Wake Fornst. 
onship. Iowa State played the last half The Blue Devils (22-3) became Duke received another scare without its tallest player. 6-9 
only the second team to win four early in this one when center Paul Shirley, who broke his foot 
such titles outright, matching Carlos Boozer twistnd his right late in the first half. Duke's run from 1963 through 
ankle and had to leave the Chris Mihm and Ivan Wagner1966. 
game. Ile returned less than led Texas with 17 points each nuke's last two Atlantic Coast 
thrnc minutes later. and Darren Kelly scored 15. Conference regular-season The Blue Devils, with their two Iowa State op1med the second 
championships have been 
stars hot, scored on 14 of the half with a 7-0 run -five pointsachieved without much drama, 
first 17 possessions, including by Johnson and a basket bygoing a record 16-0 last year nine straight, to grab a 15-point rizcr on a drive against the 7­
and 13-1 so far this season with lead. Battier and Carrawell com­foot Mihm -to go up 45-37. two games left. bined to score 35 of Duke's first The taller Longhorns got no Coach Mike Krzyzewski 46 points closer than five points after that. 
hugged Battier and senior Chris Despite the scoring barrage Two straight 3-pointers by
Carrawell as they left the early by Battier and Carrawell, Nurse stretched the lead to 52­Cameron Indoor Stadium court 
the Demon Deacons closed to 41 and Iowa State maintained a 
with seconds left. Earlier. the 36-31 before Duke stretched the comfortable cushion until Texas 
Cameron Crazies chanted "Four halftime lead to 10. drew to 66-61 on Mihm's 
more years" as Duke led by 20 reverse layup with 6:36 to play.
late. 
But Iowa State answered. The
No. 17 Iowa 89,

Battier was 11-of-16 while 6-4 Johnson slipped inside for a 
Carrawell added 19 points as No. 14. Texas 77 basket and Fizer beat Mihm off Duke beat Wake Forest for the Marcus Fizer scored a career­
the dribble for another bucket to 

seventh straight time. Battier's high 35 points and made one make it 70-61. The Cyclones
previous high was 31 points ear­huge play after another as No. then went into a four-corner lier this season against 17 Iowa State recovered from a 
setup with Tinsley running

Davidson. slow start to beat No. 17 Texas. things to preserve the lead. Wake Forest (14-13, 5-9) also Iowa State (23-4, 11-2 Big 12) It grew to 79-65 when Fizer lost for the first time in 11 broke down a Texas team that 
got the ball in the right corner, games when scoring 70 or more had allowed an average of just 
drove the baseline and dunked 

points. Darius Songaila led the 55 points in its five previous with 2:08 left. The CyclonesDemon Deacons, who have games and pulled into a tie with wrapped it up by making eight dropped nine of 12. with a Oklahoma State for first place in straight free throws. career-high 25 poinl'i. the league with three games to As Fizer was at the line with 
Duke met its first bit of adver­play. Texas (19-7, 10-3) dropped 
39.9 seconds left, the crowd 

sity since losing its opening two one game back. chanted "One more year. One games of the season head on. Michael Nurse added 20 
more year," a plea for him to Mike Dunleavy, the team's top points for Iowa State, which 
return for his-senior season reserve who was averaging 9.5 trailed 8-0 and was down 14 instead of entering the NBA points and 4.2 rebounds per before taking a 38-37 halftime 
draft. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame o_ffice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be r.repa1d. . The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the nght to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Young family seeks fluent German·  3-4 bdrm new home, f/p, cathedral  Quality ranch,  Can anyone stop Ruth Riley?  
NOTICES  WANTED  speaking mother"s helper 2-3 times/wk. 5 minutes from ND. Must  ceilings, 3 baths, 2-car garage. family room  2107 Rockne Dr , 1639 sq. ft., 3 bdrm, basement,  No.  
have transportation. 271-8355  $1400/mo.  loads of storage,  
61 6-683-5038  2-car garage. S113k.  
NORTH DINING HALL  Childcare needed.  SUBLEASE YOUR HOME this sum­ 219-340-1844  288-8854.  We will never sit down.  
STUDENT WORKERS  1 or 2 students for 20 hrs per week  mer to visiting faculty of ND. Needed  219-232-4527  When the Irish are on the floor, you  
ARE THE  between 9 and 5 to watch 2 yr old &  in June and July. Professor with 3  had better be standing  
GREATEST!  newborn for ND prof in our  children and a dog. Must be close to  EXCELLENT 5 BEDROOM HOUSE  PERSONAL  
home.Experience and transportation  Notre Dame. Please call 631-3165.  GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097  
required.Some flexibility in schedul- Hi Dan Szilier"s parents!  
THANK YOU FOR ALL  ing possible. Please call Rose at  SUMMER CHILD CARE NEEDED  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL  www.thecommentator.com  
YOUR EFFORTS AND  289-3865  for visiting faculty of ND. Schedule  YEAR GOOD AREA NORTH  
TEAMWORK  ATTENTION: THE PHONE NUM·  will include day class time, some  2773097  TEAM 395: I MISS YOU ALL!  Chuk,  
OVER JPW WEEKEND  BER IN THIS AD HAS BEEN COR- evening and weekend hours. Will  Did Fluffy see his shadow?  If you ever put underwear on your- 
RECTED. PLEASE CALL AGAIN IF  need references. Call for an appoint- NEW 4-BDRM. HOUSE NORTH OF  Will there be 6 more weeks of trads?  head and sign Backstreet boys in JC  
NDH STAFF  YOU TRIED BEFORE AND GOT A  men! 631-3165.  CAMPUS.  Penny again, well, I guess I will just  
r  WRONG NUMBER.  $350/PERSON, MIN. 3 PEOPLE.  Kerry:  laugh. Even if the hot check up girl  
ASPIRING WRITERS!  CALL JOHN 273-3828  Here is your classified  thinks we are weird.  
LOST & FOUND  Wanted 50 serious people 10 lose weight, safely & effectively. Natural/guaranteed  www.maincampus.com seeks stu­dents for stories ranging lrom Politics/Sex/Cutture/Op1nions $25  1-bdrm Apt, walk in closet, parking space. In nice residential area on a  Just like t promised. -Laura  Hey scene Amanda, hope you dad"s wrists feel better.  
wwwlose-now.com  per story! Email us at: eam@main­ lake, 10 min drive from ND.  Kerry:  
or 1-800-883-1569  campus.com  $400/mo. $250 dep. Postgrad stu- I think we should form the red-head- 
Help!  dent or faculty only. No smoking, no  ed Observer mafia. We were deli·  Does anyone at SMC know where  
FLINT COMPLETE PERSONNEL  alcohol, no party. Call 277-0189  nitely the most visible people at the  my ID and yellow walkman are? Do  
Silver and blue Guess watch lost somewhere between Debartolo  SERVICES 102 N. MAIN ST.  FOR RENT  betw 12-9pm.  press table.  you know how hard it is to sneak friends into the DH without your ID?  
(rooms 155 or 205) and the SDH on  SOUTH BEND  Kimmy Krug  Do you know how hard it is to run  
Friday, February 18.  FLINT IS RECRUITING FOR THE FOLLOWING PERMANENT POSI­ ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE http://mrnmrentals.homepage.com/  FOR SALE  You're the best Love.  w/o the Backstreet Boys?  
If found,plea8e call Julie at 2374.  TION INSIDE SALES  email:mmmrentals@aol .com  The Logic Corner  
REPRESENTATIVE  232-2595  New Phone Card  Also ... I'd STILL rather have a bad  
Growing and Expanding Staffing  886 m1ns. $20  James,  time with a human than a good time  
••••··•••--••1ost""'••••·••••••••  Looking For Highly Motivated,  Available '00-01. 4-6 Student Rental  258-4805 or 243-9361  Thank you for being so bad and  with an animal!  
silver Yashica camera on 2/18 near  Energetic Person. Must Have CIS  House ...2 1/2 baths lots of space;  shooting so poorly. We wouldn't  
JACC -had JPW pies  Skills and Sales Exp.  Dave 291-2209  Beautiful brass bed, queen size. with  have had so much fun ii you hadnot  Nancy Strippantsky ­ Meet me at  
Interested Candidates Please  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  put on such a pathetic performance  O'Shaughnessy at noon. ­ BOB  
•··•••···••reward"·•••··•••··  Contact Kim  B'NB REGISTRY  frame. New, never used, stilt in plas- The poorly dressed idiots in the third  
(219) 233-2150  219-291-7153  tic. $235  219--862-2082  row  NEMATODE!!II  


--------- 
Wednesday, February 23, 2000  The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT  page 13  

CHRISTMAS IN APRIL APRIL 15, 2000 
Join together with up to seven of your friends to participate in Christmas in April {CIA). 
CIA is a one day working session during which the South Bend community joins forces with the students, faculty, and staff of Notre Dame, Saint Mary1s, and Holy Cross College to renovate and repair the homes of the needy, elderly, and handicapped residents of a South Bend neighborhood. 
• • 1..-! I • .I • • I ~ ! r • , 
SIGN-UPS 
Wednesday, February 23 &Thursday, February 24 11 am-2 pm 4-Spm ONLY AT LAFORTUNE I ST FLOOR ELEVATOR LOBBY 
Limited Spots Available~~~ 
Questions? Contact Emily Junius at 232-2007 or Juni9846@saintmarys.edu OR Craig Komanecki at 243-9361 or Komanecki:1@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 23, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL NHL 
Strawberry tests positive, again 
Associated P,ess 
TAMPA, Fla. 

New York Yankees outfielder Darryl Strawberry tested posi­tive for cocaine on Jan. 19 and might once again be suspended from base­ball. 
A high­r an king baseball official. speaking on the con­dition he not be identified. s a i d Tuesday the commissioner's office is investigating and a decision whether to take disci­plinary action likely would be made by Thursday at the lat­est. 
Strawberry is tested two or three times a week as part of his no-contest plea on May 26, 1999, Lo charges of cocaine possession and soliciting a prostilute. He was sentenced to 18 months of probation and 100 hours of community ser­vice. 
The official did not sav what disciplinary action the sport was likely to take against Strawberry. But given his past penalties, a suspension that would last most if not all of this season appears likely. Rich Levin, the spokesman for com­missioner Bud Selig, declined comment. 
Yankees owner George Steinbrenner and general man­ager Brian Cashman also declined comment on the news, first reported by WTVT in Tampa and WLWT in Cincinnati. WLWT obtained the three-page report on the pro· bation violation from the Florida Department of Corrections and made it avail­able to The Associated Press. 

The eight-time All-Star, who came back from colon cancer surgery in October 1998, was counted on the Yankees to be their primary designated hitter this season following the retirement of Chili Davis. 
On Tuesday, Yankees manag­er Jue Torre gave a hint that something may have been up. 
"I have a sense something will happen here that will stir the pot," Torre said. 
Strawberry. who has been working out at the Yankees complex, could not be contact­ed after positive test became known. He lives a gated com· munity, Cheval, just north of Tampa in the suburb of Lutz. 
lie already has served Lwo drug-related suspensions. 
The first, for 60 days, was in 1995 after he tested positive for cocaine. The second. from April 24 to Aug. 4 last season, came after he was arrested in Tampa last April 4 for possess­ing 0.3 grams of cocaine. , 
Strawberry, who turns 38 next month, didn't rejoin the Yankees until Sept. 1, but hit .327 with three homers and six RBIs. In the postseason, he batted .333 (5-for-15) with two homers and four RBIs. 
The report by correction pro­bation specialist Shelley J. 

Tomlinson, which was approved by deputy regional director Nancy Ham, said Strawberry did not make a statement about the violation on the advice of his lawyer. 
The report recommended Strawberry "remain under supervision with enhanced trnatment sanctions and con­l)nued urine m,~,nitoring 2-to-3 times per week. 
[n addition, the report said Strawberrv should receive "updated ·substance-abuse evaluation" and have weekly counseling and continue to attend Alcoholics Anonymous/Narcotics Anonymous meetings. 
Dr. Joel Solomon, the med­ical adviser to the players' association, recommended "an enhancement of his aftercare program consisting of regular individual therapy sessions while in Tampa and also once he muvcs to New York," according to the report. 
Strawberry, lhe l 983 National League Rookie of the Year, has a .259 career aver­age with 335 homers and 1,000 RBls. 
His relapse with drugs last spring came while he was undergoing chemotherapy, which he claimed led to depression, 
He had surgery on Oct. 3, 1998, to remove a 16-inch por­tion of his large intestine to rid him of a cancerous colon tumor almost 2 1/2 inches long, At the time, doctors said the cancer did not appear to have spread. 
League suspends McSorley indefinitely 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
The NHL indefinitely sus­
pended Marty Mcsorley on 
Tuesday for knocking out 
Donald Brashear with a stick­
swinging 
hit so sav­age that police arc investi­gating. 
T h e Boston defense­m a n , 


k n o w n Mcsorley more for his fists than his finesse, struck Brashear, another renowned Lough guy, across the right temple and he crumpled to the ice. Brashear's head struck the ice as his helmet came off, his body twitching and blood ooz­ing from his nose. He sustained a concussion and will be out for at least two to three weeks. the Canucks said Tuesday after he was evaluated overnight at a Vancouver hospital. Brashear was released from the hospital and came to GM Place to meet with team train­ers Tuesday, but did not com­ment. The NHL will convene a hearing Wednesday to deter­mine how long the suspension will last and any further pun­
ishment. 
With only 2. 7 seconds remaining Monday night. and the Canucks holding a 5-2 lead, Mcsorley skated up -out of Brashear's view -and swung his stick with both hands against Brashear's head. 
"I apologize to Donald Brashear and all the faus who had to watch that," McSorley said Monday. "I embarrassed my hockey team.... I got way too carried away. It was a real dumb play. 
"I'm still in shock at what I did," he said. "I have to come to terms with what I did. There's no excuse. It was so stupid, I can't believe I did it." 
Police, deluged with calls from angry fans. are investi­gating and said they will con­sult with the NHL. 
"We have a situation here where it would appear, or that it's been alleged, that there was a fairly virious attack by one person on another," said constable Anne Drennan, a spokeswoman for the Vancouver police. 
She said police have not yet interviewed Brashear or Mcsorley and she doesn't know how long the investigation will take. The findings will be sent to a prosecutor, who will decide whether to lile charges. 
Canucks general manager Brian Burke, once the NIIL's chief disciplinarian, said the police should stay out. 

NAACP pv-eser1ts Moi'V\elilts ir1 OLAv-t--listov-y CelebJl4otin9 Block t-listovy Mohth 


Clarence L. Elder was born in Georgia in 1935. He graduated from Morgan State College. In 1976, Clarence Elder was awarded a patent for a monitoring and energy conservation control system. Called an Occustat, the control system is designed to reduce energy use in temporarily vacant homes and buildings, especially useful for hotels and school rooms. When the buildi11g or roo1n is empty of people, the beam sets the Occustat system into motion, reducing heat and light demand and can boast energy savings up to 30 percent. 
·----·------·----­

Wednesday, February 23, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
M. 8-ball 
continued from page 20 
The Friars are led by Erron Maxey and Florida State transfer Karim Shabazz. Maxey averages 
15.3 points per game and 7.8 rebounds per contest, while the 7­foot-3 Shabazz averages 11-6 and 
8.4. 

On defense, the Irish will look to pack in their zone to stop Maxey and Shabazz on the inside. The Friars haven't been very success­ful from the perimeter. 
"We know they are going to try to look inside," Carroll said. "Shabazz is listed at 7-f'oot-3 so they'n) big. We going to try to pack it on to stop them." 
The Irish will try to counter with Murphy who leads the conference in scoring and rebounding. Murphy is coming off a 35-point. 8-rebound performance against Seton Hall. He averages 23.5 points per game (fourth in the nation) and 10.7 rebounds (sev­enth in the country). 
David Graves (13 points per game) and Carroll (9.9 points per game) have also been key contrib­utors for the Irish this season. Graves has broken out of his shooting slump and responded with a 15-point (6-for-9 from the field) effort against the Pirates .. 
"We need to focus on coming out mentally prepared to play," Carroll said. "We need to play with inten­sity and emotion and just lay it all on the line." 
The Irish have played well at home all season, posting a 13-2 record at the Joyce Center. After tonight's showdown with Providence, however, Notre Dame has three difficult games remain­ing -including two on the road ­which could make or break the season. 
"The fans and students help us a ton," Carroll said. "They have been unbelievable and motivate us to be at our best at home. They give us incentive to play our hardest." 
Tip-otfis scheduled for 7:30 p.m. 
Fox 
continued from page 20 
point second-halflead slipped 
away and then responded with 
sophomore David Graves' put 
bar.k with just 0.3 seconds left in 
regulation -a shot that gave 
Lhc Irish a 7(>-74 victory. 
"That sconi looker! strikingly 
similar to the overtime result of 
the women's game earlier in the 
day, a final of Irish 78, Rutgers 
74. 
"The uncanny link between 
those two occurrenC(eS grows 
eVfrn stronger when we look Lo 
the moVfiments of the stars. 
Hatay set a pRrsonal and Big 
Easl record for single game 3­
point eflkiency. going a perfoct 
7 -7 rrom bnhind the line. 
"Sophomore Troy Murphy, 
subconsciously feeling the stan­
dard set by the fnislmrnn, erupt­
ed for a5 points, matching his 
career high. 
"Two teams, two games. one 
campus. and eerily similar phe­
nomena. If you have any infor­
malion regarding the events of 
the 19th. r.all Ted Fox." 
Well. that's just about enough 
from you. 
"Update: With those wins, the women won their 18th game in a row. the longest streak in the country and school history, and the men beat their second ranked opponent in a week and their fifth of the season. Two grossly unrelated facts. but almost mysteriously intriguing in their lack of relation. Perhaps... " 
All right, Mr. Stack. thanks for your help, but I think your time is up. 
"It's odd that you should men­tion time. Just minutes befon'l these games, both teams engaged in the pre-game shoot­aronnd. This unorthodox means of preparation could have been the defining moment in these two separate yet inexplicably inlertwined victories." 
Every basketball team always does a pre-game shoot-around. That's pretty standard stufT. You don't know what you're talking about, do you? 
"Uhhhh ... no." 
Well, don't worry about it. 
People ask me that a lot. too. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Breakfast the way ii was meant to be. Hot, fresh, at ND and made by someone else. 


DELICOUS, FRESH-BAKED CINI-MINIS OR SAUSAGE EGG AND CHEESE BISCUIT. 
Ifyou don•t consider yourself a morning person, perhaps these will make you reconsider. Delicious, hot Cini-Minis, from the heart ofthe bun, or the tasty Sausage Egg and Cheese Biscuit. Hey, you may have to make your bed in the morning. but thanks to Burger King, at least you don't have to make your breakfast. 
The Huddle -Lafortune Sludent Center 

nJust 1as1es 11e11er. 
www.burgcrking.com 
For• \united time. Pric;,: and paiticipatiOll may VIII)', 

Copyright 1999 Burger King Co,poration.. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the Burger King Bun Halves and Crescent Logo and the "It Just taster better' trademark and the registered Burger King trademarlc. 
page J6 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 23, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 


Take a look at the box score of the Notre Dame-Miami game Tuesday and it looks like the Irish came out on top with another impressive win. 
Ruth 
Riley scored 36 to lead the Irish to their 20th straight victory, 83-68. 

Another team,  Kerry Smith  
another  
easy win, right? Not  assistant sports editor  
quite.  
Take a  

look at the game tape and it looks like an instant replay of the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh matchup earlier this month. There. the Irish survived a scare only because they buckled down as the final minutes ticked off the clock. 
The set-up for both games was the same. The Irish stepped on the court with things other than the current game on their mind. 
Against Pittsburgh, the Irish were looking ahead to a big week against dangerous teams like St. John's and Villanova, instead of focusing on the team on the floor. a team dwindling at the bottom of the Big East rankings. 
Against Miami, a team that should have posed little threat to the No.5 Irish, Muffet McGraw's squad was looking back upon its biggest win of the season -a victory at No. 8 Rutgers Saturday. And it showed. 
"We got off to a slow start," McGraw said. "Mentally we just weren't focused." 
In the first half of play against Miami, the Irish didn't look like a team that deserved a place in the Associated Press top 25, never mind the top 5. 
They racked up four quick fouls in less than four minutes. mley was on the bench less than two minutes in. And the Irish couldn't put any distance on the scoreboard between themselves and the Hurricanes. They made too many mental mistakes and gavA the ball away too many times. Nielc Ivey and Riley col­lided at center court 10 minutes into the first half, highlighting the team's mental error-ridden play. 
"l think [the first-halfletdown] was to be expected," McGraw said. "We came olT a high with a big win against Rutgers and we've got UConn down the road and it was very diflicult to focus. It was a ma! challenge for us." 
The expected letdown isn't a good excuse for poor play and won't get the Irish very far in their biggest game of the season against Nn. 1 Connecticut Saturday or in the conference tournament in March. 
What is going to happen when the Irish make a run for the title at the Big East tournament and face a slew of teams -some bad, some impressive and some just mediocre? Notre Dame can't alJord to play to the level of its competition. It must step on the court mentally focused for the task at hand. 
No doubt when the Irish step on the court ready for their opponent, they are at times unstoppable. They have the tal­ent and the drive to capture the Big East crown and make a legitimate run for the NCAA title. 
But when they ride a roller coaster of mental toughness and weakness, games like those against Connecticut at the Hartford Civic Center and ones against other teams waiting to bring down the frontrunner at the Big East tournament become risky outings. 
The Irish are at a point in the season where even a slight mental lapse could bring them down. 
Against the likes of Pittsburgh and Miami, the Irish could afford to wait until the second half to turn up the intensity and secure a win. But Connecticut won't let the Irish back in the game with 10 minutes left to go and neither will any team come tournament time. 
McGraw's squad is at a pivotal point in the season. Twenty­point wins over unranked teams are no longer good enough. The Irish need to dominate the ball from the outset. 
Against the Panthers and Hurricanes, H.iley was the one who stepped up and rescued the faltering Irish. If she gets into foul trouble as she has in the past -something the Huskies will be looking to bring about ­the Irish will be hard prnssed to pull off another close win. 
Saturday's game in Hartford will set the tone for the rest of the Irish season. The team's hearts will be in the game, but if their heads aren't there as well, the season will be shorter than Irish fans would like. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 

e www.nd.edu/-sub 

Wednesday February 23, 2000 7:30pm: Preview Night-Lafortune Ballroom The Festival runs Friday & Saturday the 25th & 26th 
7:30 pm at Stepan Center The first 150 ND Students at Friday's show will receive a FREE all­
festival pass courtesy of the Student Activities Office Advance tickets available at the Lafortune Box Office 
e Join the Tra ons are now bei anager positio 
••·lacademi 

iek up appliclt 'ft' 
ce of Student Act' 315 LaFortune 
. ":)i~;•

e: ·• February 
Read The Observer online at observer.nd.edu 
Wednesday, February 23, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

W. B-ball 
continued from page 20 
the other end. Rut I dirln't rnal­lv think about the fouls too 
mud1." 
Miami thought about Riley all night. though especially in the sPcond half. Thev witrn~ssed the tallest player 'on the floor out run the def.eBse for easy baskets. TwPntv-four of her gamo-high 36 °points came after intermission. 
"Sh.-runs tlrn f'loor verv well," Miami coach rern~: Labati said or Ri!Ry. 
"She put lrnrself in position that she got there [to the ball] first. She didn't really have to make an offensive move to score her poiuts. Bul that's her working off the lrn.skr,tball." 
When they weren't getting outhustled by Riley, the llurrkanes wern fouling the junior center. The Miami front court was getting thin, as two playHs (Alicia Hartlauh and Christal White) had Ove fouls apiece and two others (Bodley and Dalia Clarke) committed four each. In the meantime, lliley responded by connecting on 18-for-23 from the line, hoth school records. 
"Every year. [thP foul shoot­ing] gets better," said nilcy, who shoots more than 80 per­cent from the line. "I know now that I'm going to get a double team and expect that contact. I'm not going to make every shot but I'm going to get fouled a lot more than I was freshman year or last year. I've been working on that a lot." 
After posting a 78-74 over­time victory against Rutgers on Saturdav, the Irish started slowly in· the first half. Notre Dame shot just 41.4 percent from thr field in the half and turned tlrn ball over nine times. 
"We were verv drain£1d after that game," McGraw said referring to the Rutgers win. "It was a very rmotional game. I don't think IUw slow start] was looking past Miami to Connncticut !011 Saturday]. I just think wr were still think­ing about Hutgrrs." 
Jfohind Rilev and t.lwir tran­sition ga1rn~. tirn Irish expandl'd the margin to as many as 21 points on threP occasions in Uw second half. 
Erir.ka lla1rny had 15 points for tlrn Irish, morf! than twice her average uf 7-f'or-10 shoot­ing from tlw Cirld. Juli<' Ilcndcrson and l)aniP!h· Grrcn were the other l\iotre IJanw players in donblP figun•s, with 10 points apkcc. 
Mi,nni. who shot :14. 7 prr­ce n t from th<' f'inld for the game, was led by Bodley's 1<, points. Clarke added l 5 points and seven rebounds while Hartlaub, a f'rnsl1111an, had 11 points. 
The Irish look to cxtond their nation's longest winning streak when they travel to Connectkut on Saturday. A vic­tory over Connecticut would Im I\Jotre Dame's first in 10 con­tests between the two teams sinr:e the Irish join11d the Big East confcrnnco. It would also give the Irish their first Big East regular season title and undefeated r,onfcrcnce record. 
In order to prepare for the Huskies, Mr,Graw has an idea. 
'Tm planning on talking to Coach [Matt] Doherty because he owns Connecticut," McGraw said of' the men's coach who was in attendance at Tuesdav's game. "I know he's got the secret for us to beat them. I'll be ta!.king to him a lot this week. 
JOB T\JRNERfThe Observer 

Alicia Ratay drives in Tuesday's Irish victory. The freshman guard scored five points in limited 
ATTENTION 
action. 
UNDERGRADUATE 
AND GRADLIATE 
STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 
CENTER.COM 
The alumni-Senior Club is now accepting 
PURSUE JOB 
AND INTERNSHIP 
OPPORTUNITIES
Bartender and D.J. applications. 

THAT SPAN 
THE GLOBE 
Apply today atthe Student Activities Office 

(315 LaFortune) 
0,

for the best job 011 
~·.I.Ji'·.

campus!! 
Applications Deadline,:1\.farch:.2 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
page 18 The Opserver . SPORTS Wednesday, February 23, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Belles fall to Dutch in MIAA tourney 
By KATIE MCVOY 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's spirit couldn't pull the Belles to a victory over top-ranked Hope College in the first round of the MIAA basket­ball tour­
Hope College 75 
nament. 
Saini Mary's 44
T h e 
Belles fell 

to the 
Flying Dutch 75-44. 

Hope, 21-4, posed a signifi­cant threat to the 3-22 Saint Mary's squad. The Flying Dutch outscored their oppo­nents by an average of 16 points and had outscored the Belles by at least 25 in the teams' two meetings this year. 
The Belles kept pace with the Flying Dutch early in the game and the score was tied five minutes into the first half. After that, Hope took control and went on a 21-2 scoring run. 
Saint Mary's missed nine shots in that period and the score was 27-8 with nine min­utes left in the half. 
After taking a timeout, the Belles came back hard. Hope only outscored Saint Mary's by two points in the final nine minutes of the first half. 
Unfortunately, the damage was already done and the Belles trailed 40 -17 at the end of the half. 
Saint Mary's found some energy over half time and came back ready to play. 
Kelly Jones started off the half with a jumper and the Belles kept pace with the Flying Dutch. During the sec­ond half, the Belles were only outscored by eight points -a big improvement from the first half. 
Although the Belles were out-rebounded, the real deter­mining factor of the game was shooting. 
The Belles shot only 17.9 percent from the field during the first half, and 26.2 percent for the game. Hope shot 52.5 percent from the field, accounting for the difference in the score. 
The Belles were led offen­sively by junior guard Julie Norman with 12 points and two assists and defensively by sophomore Kelly Jones who had seven rebounds. 
Jones aided on offense with eight points along with fresh­man center Kristen Matha, who scored nine points for the team. 

NHL 
Penguins place Jagr on injured reserve 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 

Pittsburgh Penguins star Jaromir Jagr, the NHL's lead­ing scorer, injured his right hamstring Monday night against 
Tampa Bay and w a s placed on injured reserve. 
He is out of action 


indefinite-Jagr ly and returned Tuesday to Pittsburgh, where he will be examined by doctors to deter­mine the full extent of the injury. 
Jagr, held scoreless for a season-high third consecutive game, heard his hamstring "crack" as he became tangled with the Lightning's Todd Warriner near the offensive blue line with 12 seconds left in the second period. 
Jagr would not estimate how long he might be out, but was told the injury can sideline a player for as long as a month. Such a layoff could seriously jeopardize Jagr's chances of winning a fourth NHL scoring title. 
"How severe, I don't know," Pittsburgh coach Herb Brooks said. "But it doesn't look too good." 
Jagr was held without a shot in 14 shifts, totaling 16 min­utes, in the 2-1 Joss to Tampa Bay. It wasn't exactly the kind 
of game he wanted to play in 
former Czech Olympic coach 
Ivan Hlinka's debut behind the 
Penguins bench. 
"They played very well 
against Jagr," said Hlinka, who 
is the associate coach for now 
but will soon take over the 
Penguins. 
Jagr seemed especially down after lhe game, answering questions with one or two word answers before leaving hurriedly to catch the team bus. 
Jagr. whose speed and size usually enable him to deal with teams that try to muscle him, absorbed two unusually hard hits in the first period, one each from Pavel Kubina and Gordie Dwyer, before getting injured in the second period. 
"I think we shocked the Jagr line. Petr [Svoboda] and I know him very well and know what we have to do against him," Kubina said. 
"He took a bunch of hits, took no shots and after the second period was done." 
Like Jagr, Svoboda and Kubina are from the Czech Republic. 
Jagr leads the NHL with 85 points and is second to Florida's Pavel Bure with 37 goals despite his recent slump. Before his scoreless streak, he had a goal and two assists in three games. 
Jagr managed to hold onto his league scoring lead despite missing five games earlier in the season, one for a thigh muscle injury and four with an injured stomach muscle from Jan. 19-25. 



Wednesday, February 23, 2000 The Oburver . TODAY page 19 TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
IN J\l.LDf' OI.IR. E.l'-P(R•l"\t:NTS \i./£ A\10 IN l,.001:'..1 cou1.o 01-11.-'( (.OtJJE<.:fu~E. A:> To R .i..E SE Wlo~• '(ov W£R€ T~,w~•Nu. NO~ D SR1',\\i 
WE'. CMJ f'.INM.. LY KNoW 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 30 Stand for 60 Nile slitherer 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2000 1 Sign language something 61 Pennies made 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS your best efforts will come through
communicator, c 31 Classic card in the 1990's? 
DAY: Peter Fonda, Diane Varsi, Hele­hard work. 0000
maybe game 64 Start of a 
na Suk.ova, Marc Price, Johnny Wm­VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You 6 Myanmar, once 32 Times past Brewers line ter, Sylvia dlase will be less than pleased with some­11 Muscles used in 36 Dadaism score Happy Birthday: Nothing will one you care about. Think carefully 
situps founder 65 Tale of the stand in your way this year. You will before you make any rash statements Trojan War set your goals and work relentlessly or decisions. 000
14 Winter warmer­37 In general 
to achieve them. You will be creative, LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Argu­
66 Bud Grace upper 41 Baseball bat 

unique and certainly willing to go ments with co-workers or secret
15 Pisces' follower material comic strip 
the extra mile to do and be the best lovers will set you off. Do not push
67 Season

16 Not even hall­42 Gambling game possible. You will delve into different your luck. or minor illness or injury
opener?

baked 44 Sink philosophies and lifestyles that will will take place. 000 17 Evidence of a 45 Signal 68 How long it result in a complete change this year. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): royal thief? interference 
takes mountains Your numbers: 22, 28, 33, 38, 46, 48 Don't neglect legal matters that to form ARIES (March 21-April 19): could cost you dearly at a later date.
19 _-Wan ol 41 Recreation for 
Think before you speak. You may You may be involved with someone
69 Loved ones"Star Wars" Gregorian 

find that you are your own worst who is not financially trustworthy.. 20 Harsh review monks? enemy today. Your emotional atti­000
DOWN

21 Pub stock 51 Like a beautiful tude will fluctuate when you're deal­SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 22 Wing-looted night sky 1 Letters on old ing with females. 000 21): Romantic relationships will be Soviet rockets TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Dif­under stress today if you or your
one 54 Kick back 
2 Circle dance ficulties with co-workers may cause partner have not been completely
24 LAX 55 Response to a 
setbacks or confrontations. Try not to honest about your likes and dislikes.
3 Trash can, forguesstimates knock, maybe 

one get involved in their personal affairs. 0000 25 Handbooks 56 Tough Arguments involving workloads are CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
4 Fell with a blade

26 Birthday 57 Montgomery likely.000 Travel may not be your safest bet camping gear? sch. 5 Popular cigar GEMINI !May 21-June 20): Emo­today. Minor accidents due to care­6 Slightest tional arguments will evolve in your lessness must be avoided. Do not 7 "QB VII" author home environment. Try not to jump jump to conclusions regarding 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 Tin Tin to conclusions regarding children or colleagues. 00 loved ones. Your attitude may not be AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do 
1 c s 9 Antifreeze Puzzle by Greg Staples 

pleasant 00000 not get involved in get-rich-quickR A L additive CANCER Oune 21-July 22): Prob­schemes. Children may cost you
29 Powerful engine 49 Annual Nile 57 ''The King and I"
10 What a stamp lems with secret information may more than you expected today. Be 
33 Reason for events role

A G E may indicate lead to embarrassment. Be careful sure not to underestimate the extent N E D 11 Bouquet when talking to those who are not of a job. 00000
postponement 50 Woodland critter 58 Flap 34 Mgr.'s aide looking out for your best interests. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
12 Gibberish 51 Rogue 59 "Has 1,001 _. 
00 Arguments with family members are
13 Watch word? 35 Tom Jones's 52 "_, With Love" 

"_a Lady" LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Disagree­evident. Try not to show impatience 
18 Work out 53 Good-sized 62 "O Sole 

ments with peers will cause anger. with children or lovers. Concentrate
38 Florida State 

23 Subterfuge 56 Pulp novel hero 63 Earlier than Do not try to reform others, or alien­on home-improvement projects.
athlete

B 24 Hamburg-to-ation is likely. You may find that 000 39 Aid's partner 
A Berlin dir. 
40 Like some Answers to any three clues in this puzzle Birthday Baby: You are an energetic. outgoing individual who will offer a 
25 Children's 

great deal to others. You have pizzazz as well as compassion. This combina­
digital pictures are available by touch-tone phone:26 Point on a

8 
tion will bring you popularity and interesting offers throughout your life.
43 Fiend 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).
graph 

(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, I M P ....,.+-+--+---1 27 Like a no-hitter 46 Klutz Annual subscriptions are available for the eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) A M I =-t--=-t,=-t-,-+,.,... 28 Locker room 48 Actress best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 10 2000 Universal Press Syndicate S O N -'-1,.;;;.,1,.;;;;..L"'-' 0 T I N shower? Silverstone years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

Fox TROT 
You'vE CALMED 
DOWN SINCE WELL, IT'S 
THIS MORNIN&. DAWNED I ON ME 
THAT THIS MUST SE A O'Ji'EAM. 
I 
THINK .l.8oUT IT-IF I'D REALLY METAMORPHOSIZED INTO A MINIATURE PAIGE, THE X-F1LES DtVIStoN AT THE FSI WOULD'VE SEl'IT MULDER AND SCULLY To 
INVEST!-~ 
GATE BY ~ ")V. 
Q ., 
KEEP IN MIND THEY ONLY EXAMINE PARANORMAL EVENTS SUITABLE FoR A M.l.1NSTiEAM IIIETwoRK 
TELEV1S10N AUDIENCE. 
I 

BILL AMEND 
I MEAN, THERE CURSE ARE MUTANTS, THE IN­AND THEN THERE FALLIBLE ARE MUTANT$. LO&IC OF 
' A.,
M'i' SUS-

find out that, by some quirk of 
the election process, he would be the next 
student body president. 
bearn.1@nd.edu 
-----. 


Bounced from the tourney 
The Saint Mary's basketball teamfell to Hope College in the first round ofthe MIAA Tournament.
PORTS 
page 18 

O
THE 

page 20 BSERVER Wednesday, February 23, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Riley blows Hurricanes back to Miami 
By TIM CASEY 
Spores Wrirer 
Muffel McGraw paced in front of hPr bench Tuesday at a quicker pace than usual. · 
Her team was slruggling against Miami, ahead by only five points, at 43-38 
Notre Dame 83 
with 17:15 
Miami 68
remaining. 
Then the whistle blew. Ruth Riley had just been callerl for her third foul aftflr making contart with the Hurricane's Martha Bodley. What was she to do with Hiley, the 6-foot-5 J\.11-Amel'ican, who bad scored seven points less than three minutes in the half? 
"I was deliberating on the sideline for quite a while [about taking Hiley out of the game]." McGraw said. "And I continuPd to think about it. I jusl thought her presern;e on offonse was too important to us at that point in the game. We were having trouble scor­ing everywhere else." 
Good decision. 
After pickin!{ up her third foul, Riley continued to domi­nate. scoring 13 poin ls in a row during a 3:28 stretch to Bxpand the Irish lead to 62-50 with 9:40 left. That wus as close as Miami (11-14. 5-9 Big East) would get the rest of the way as Notre Dame (24-2, 15­
0) cruised to an 83-68 virtorv, its 20th in a row. ­
"Unfortunately, I have some experience in that area." Riley said referring to the foul trou­b I e. "I knew I needed to be smart. I had to not go for the block if necessary, but maybe just contest the shot and play good defense. [ was trying not to get another offensive foul cm 
see W. B-BALL/page 17 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame looks to extend winning streak 
By BRIAN KESSLER Sporrs Editor 
Two weeks ago. first-year

"' 
head coach Matt Doherty pre­sented his players with a chal­lenge. They could either give up or make one last run. 
The Irish basketball team has chosen the latter. 
"After coach said that, I think the whole team realized we needed to make a move," fresh­man shooting guard Matt Carroll said. "If we didn't, our goal of making the NCAA Tournament would hn shat­tered. We've gone out and won a couple of games and hopefully we can win a few more." 
Since Doherty's challenge, Notre Dame (16-10, 7 -5) hasn't flinched while knocking off nationally ranked opponents Connecticut and Seton Hall. 
Notre Dame will look to make it three in a row when it hosts Providence tonight at the Joyce Center. Last year, the Irish beat the Friars twice during the reg­ular season. 

Riding the back of All­American Troy Murphy, Notre Dame emerged as a contender in the Big East and put itself in position for its first NCAA Tournament berth since the 1990-91 season. 
Providence's season has been just the opposite. The Friars arc 9-16 on the season and in the basement of the conference standings with a 2-10 mark. Providence had lost 10 straight games, but managed to upset third-place Miami on the road last week. 
"They arc an athletic team and play aggressive man-to­man defense," Carroll said. "They beat Miami so we know it will be a tough challenge and we can't takn tlrnrn lightly." 
see M. B-BALL/ page 1 5 
Unsolved basketball 
•
mysteries 
Truth is stranger than fiction. I couldn't help but think that after Saturday's Notrn Dame basketball games condudml. 
To help me present my eerie rnaliza­tions, Hobert Stack, the host of TV's "Unsolved Mystories," has agreed to make a cameo, 
completfl with the show's 
awesome background music. 
(OK, I haven't actually con­tacted Robert Stack: n1:ne of' my realizations are rt~ally that "eerie," let alone "u,i'solved" or even "mysteries." Still, this is a lot more fun if you prntcnd he's telling you this stulT with the creepy music in full effect.) 
So. Mr. Stack, why don't you go ahead and hil it. 
"Saturday, Feb. I 9, 2000. Piscataway, N.J., and home court of the Hutgcrs University Scarlet Knights. A small travel­ing band of females, known only as the No. 5 Notre Dame women's basketball team, showed up on eighth-ranked Hutgers' doorstep looking to play a game. There were doubts as to whether the Irish could beat a particularly strong oppo­nent away from their home ­the Joyce Center. 
"In a twist of scheduling fate, another small group -t.he1 Notre Dame men's basketball team -from the very same Indiana campus. made a similar trek to the state of New .Jersey. Ending up in East Rutherford for a 9 p.m. tip-off with the 25th-ranked Seton Hall Pirates, many wondered if these lrish could win a big game away from that very same Joyce Center. 
"But the story doesn't stop here. The women's team. after leading by as many as 19 points and l 0 at the half. trailed by six with only 17 seconds to go. Enter freshman Alicia Hatay, who canned two threes, the sec­ond shortly before the final horn. to send the game to over­time. 
"Some nine hours later. per­haps sensing its sister team's flair for the heroic, the men's team first watched as an 11­


see FOX/page 15 

vs. Providence Softball ~-, at North Carolina 
I I
3i·
Today, 7:30 p.m. ~ ~ at Arkansas Tournament '•;.:::..::;.",; Saturday, noon
SPORTS 
Friday -Sunday 
Baseball

ATA at Loyola Tournament vs. Purdue vs. Air Force 
riJ·i
~ Saturday, 8 a.m. '··,:::::::;,.l Saturday, noon at Millington, Tenn.
GLANCE • 
Thursday, 4 p.m. 

"" 



