
Movie madness 
Afriend's tribute 
Scene reviews this summer's biq studio 
Saint Mary's senior Sara Williams, passenger 

Thursday
blockbusters. including "Gone in 60 Seconds" 
in the accident that killed Kristi Morris last 
and "What Lies Beneath. " 
year, reflects on the tragedy. 
AUGUST 24, 
Scene . page 12 
Viewpoint . page 11 
2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 2 HTTP:/!OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Father Malloy creates Student Life Co;mmittee 
opportunity students have to "/The SLCJ doesn't replace the place of the Campus Lif'e nizations will allow more stu­
By LAURA ROMPF voicn thr.ir opinions and takn Council (CLC), Dennis Brown. d,mts to be involved and voic<)
A.sist,tnt 1'<ews Editor the CLC al all. They have
part in the present and future associate director of Public their thoughts on campus and of l\otre Dame and what it will different missions and Relations and Information. said 
academic life. 
..

/\t 11w recommondaHon of the he. different purposes and thn comrnittoes have different "Whiln this new body has /\cl lloc CornmittPe on The new advisorv boclv will functions.
will coexist. " fewer student representatives
/\cadnmics and Student Life, ue <.;Omposed of 11 ·elected and "There was some talk about 
than th.c CLC. it has more

C11ivorsity prosident Father appointed membPrs of the stu­thP [Student Life Committeel 
access to larger issues."

Edward Mallov has established dent body, faculty and staff, Dennis Brown making the CLC redundant, but 
O'Donoghue said. "It will lrnlptlw Academic·and Studflnl Life and co-chaired by the provost it hasn't taken the place of tlrn

associate director of Public 
in the student involvement of

Advisory Comrnittc-o to give stu­and vico president for Student CLC," said Rrown. "It doesn't
Relations and lnfonnation governance at Notre Dame. 1
dents a new way to voice their Affairs. It will meet quarterly to replace the CLC at all. They am excited about the prospects
opinions. discuss student experiences in have different missions and dif­of this body and I am also excit­
"I am ecstatic," said student and out of the classroom and life. ferent purposes and will coex­body presidont Brian will address ways to integrate Despite last year's talk about ist." ed about tho prospects of the O'Donoghu(•. "This is a great these two aspects of campus the new advisory body taking O'Donoghue hopes both orga-CLC." 

ND continues expansion tradition 
By KATE STEER 
Associate News Editor 
In lh<' tradition of Notre ))amp's recent growth, stu­dents returned to campus this fall to various construc­tion projects. Some are ongoing projects that were begun last spring; some are rrnshly started sites. 
"I Notre Dame I is fortu­nate enough to be in a posi­tion to continue to expand academic facilities, which are mu1:h needed," said Dnnnis Brown, associatr. director of Public Relations and Information. 
Prnliminary construction has lrngun on the Marie I'. DnBartolo Center for tlrn Performing Arts at the south end of the DeBartolo quad. Schndulnd to move into the construction phase in tlrn spring, the Center is the final component of the DeBartolo project and will complete the DeBartolo quad. 
"It was lirst announced in 198(), when Edward J. DeBartolo made a $33 mil­lion gift to the University," said Brown. The building has faced several delays since ils proposal more than 10 years ago, includ­ing the death of its benefac­tor. 
The 125,000 square foot project has a $50 million budget and will house the Department of Film, Television and Theatre. In addition. the building indudes a 900-seat concert hall, a 350-seat main stage, a 200-seat movie theater, a 100-seat organ and chorale hall and a 100-seat studio theater 
"This is a facility that will enhance the quality of cul­tural life both on campus and in the community to a significant degree." Brown said. 
The DeBartolo Center is slated for completion in the summer of 2003. 
On the site of the· former campus bookstore. con­struction is underway on the Coleman/Morse Center. This facility is the future location of Campus Ministry and Academic Services offices. 
The combined gifts of the late Thomas Coleman and Jim Morse made the project possible. The project was proposed several years ago 
and was begun last spring following the opening of the new Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. The preliminary budget is $14 million. 
A new theology and phi­losophy building between O'Shaugnessy and Decio should be completed in the summer of 2001. The build­ing will relocate the depart­mental and faculty offices from both O'Shaugnessy and Decio. 
"Those two departments will move completely into that building to free some 
much needed space for Arts and Letters faculty," said Brown. 
The 67,000 square foot building is the result of a gift from an anonymous benefactor. 
The building will be con­nected to Decio via an enclosed two-story walk­way. 
Finally, the renovation of the Hayes-Healy Center and Hurley Hall is well under­way. The buildings initially 
sec WORK/page 4 
Outlaw: new name builds alliances 
By TIM LOGAN Senior Staff Writer 
The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs (OMSA) is no more. 
The organization, which coordinates programs for minority students, changr.d its name to · 
Multicultural Student Services and Programs (MSPS) over the summer. 
The change was made to make the office more definitive and inclusive. Students some.times 

confused it with the Outlaw Office of Student Affairs, or thought it served the same purpose as that office. but for minority students. The change symbolizes an effort to include more of the Notre Dame population, according to director Iris 
· Outlaw. "We are making a concerted effort right now to reach the majority stu­dents," she said. MSPS is doing that through increased networking and diver­sity education programs. including a new one which has student counselors talk to freshmen in the dorms about race and diversity issues. They are also holding workshops on multiculturalism with assistant rectors, resident assistants and student-athletes for the fir.st time this vear. "These are some coups that have not happened before," Outlaw said. MSPS also sponsors cultural events. helps in recruiting and retention and pro­vides guidance for minority students. Recently, the office has stepped up career counseling and mentoring opportunities, as well as joining with the Office of International Student Affairs to form the Intercultural Center. But whether it's OMSA or MSPS, the mission. and the people, of the office is the same, according to its director. "I want to see students feel comfortable in building alliances," Outlaw said. "They can become more open." 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, August 24, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Arrogant & Fashionable 
What-1-dicl-over-summer-vacatiun essays used 

to bn some of my favorite assignment<;. One week 
this summer changed all thaL It was the 
tumultuous wm~k I worked at Abercrombie & 
Fitch. 
During my wnek-long employment I was subjected to numerous met~tings our managers used as retail pep talks. It was then that wr diss1ided the "Look Book," a sort of inner-store bible full of proper hairstyles and words of' encouragement on how to be a "reprt1sentativ11 oftlw A&F style." 
It was during these spnHches that I learned pearls of wisdom such as ways of cher,ring up when you rnalize that you can't propnrly fold denim and how to kPep the tissue papnr inside the perfectly craftrnl T-shirt displays. 
The most vital of all of these mottos. however, struck a chord and a funny bone. I bit my lip as hard as I could when I actually heard my manag­er say. "We work hard. we play hard, we wear cool clothes." 
It was at this point that I looked around at my fellow employe,~s and realized that there were no black faces in the store. There were few minori­ties, and many, many fluffy fleece vests. There wern starry-eyed girls staring at oversizud pho­tos of naked skiing men on the walls of the store. I knew right then that I needed to get out. 
Tlrnse arP clothes. They am nice clothes, yes ­well-made and comfortable. But they're clothes. 
Thny're sweaters, socks and egotistical T­shirl'.. They are not a way of life or a representa­tion ol'what the "in-crowd" is wearing. At least they shouldn't be. They should merely be what Cod (or your resp11rtive entity here) intended them to be -covering for the body. 
Adam and Eve never went crazy over button­fly carpenter jeans -leaves worked just fine. 
·Every human being is capable of gret\d and idolatry. In gem~ral, everyone wants to belong, be a part of something sometime in his or her life. But what human beings should not want to be is conformed. 
I admit to owning three pieces of this store's clothing -the requirt)d two tops and a bottom outlinnd when you first enroll as "Brand Heprnsentativc." What I do not own is a respect for the store or the ideology it promotes. It's this sort ol' mentality that strips the human spirit of originality and the bnauty or being diffcrPnl. 
It's easy to walk into a store, sec everyone wearing thP "cool"clothes and rare to the nearest dn1ssing room to become "cool," too. It's not easy to walk into a store and reC()gnize that the people wearing the clothes am trying to sell the lifestyle, not the cotton. 
In a nice world, people would be judged by whom they are, how they've contributed to soci­ety and if they bless a friend after he sneezes. In a perfect world. people wouldn't be judged at all, ospecially not for the shirts on their backs. 
Only in an insane world would the ideal hair accessory be a mandatory one-inch tortoise-shell headband. 
So live in a sane world. Walk into your nearest store-o' -conformity and take a stand. Go crazy. Move the sweaters out of place. Wave your long, long hair and two-inch (oh my!) hot pink head­band in their faces. Even if it means -eek! ­buying the clothes, be yourself . .Just know that you're buying clothes, not you. 
The views expressed in lhe Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Maureen Smithe  Amanda Greco  
Coll<"cn McCarthy  Matt Nania  
Courtney Boyle  Graphics  
Sports  Jose Cuellar  
Tim Casey  Production  
Viewpoint  Noah Amsradrer  
Lila Ha11ghcy  Lab Tech  
Ernesto Lacayo  


Th, Ob.server (USPS 599 2-4000) is publish,d Monday through Friday cxccpr durir1g cx;i;m and vac;i.rion period.\, The-Ob.~crvcr is a member of rhc Associated Pre», All reproduction rii;hts arc rc>erved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Event: Football Ticket  . Event: Pilgrimage to  . Event: ".Jubilee Year  . Exhibit: "Five Centuries  
Distribution; 7 a.m.;  Eucharistic Congn,ss; 1  2000 Celebration/  of Master Prints,"  
Freshman class; Gat(! B,  p.m.; Noble Family Dining  Eucharistic Congress," 9  Mestrovic Studio Gallery,  
Notre Dame Stadium  Hall, Saint l\.lary's  a.m., Notre Dame and  Snite Museum of Art  
Saint Mary's  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Indiana professor, Knight critic extends leave 
BLOOMINGTON. Ind. 
appeared as a source in articles in 
Indiana University English profes­the New York Times and Sports sor Murray Sperber, a vocal critic of III ustrated. basketball coach Bob Knight, Sperber argued that Knight, who doesn't want to teach when the teaches a course about coaching team takes to the court. basketball. violated his professional 
He said this to College of Arts and obligations as a faculty member. Sciences Dean Kumble The univnrsity has long had a rode Subbaswamy, who has extended .of conduct for faculty, and Sperber 
Sperber's leave or absence up sages, such as "if you don't shut up, formerly served on the Bloomington through the spring semester. you will be shut up." faculty council. 
"IU faculty take their teaching A seven-week investigation by the After the university granted him a obligations very seriously and do board of trustees resulted in the leave of absence, Sperber tem­not casually request to be excused suspr,nsion and fining of' Knight. porarily took up rPsidencc in from their classroom teaching who has also been placed under a Montreal. duties," Subbaswamy said. "I zero-tolerance policy. The trustees "We offered to do evorything in believe this action sjgnals strongly found a "29-year pattern of inap­our pow1~r to help protect Profossor both IU's commitment to freedom of propriate conduct" that included Sperber's freedom to teach his speech and Professor Sperber's physical and verbal aggression classes," Subbaswamy said. "But he dedication to teaching and his stu­against players and university chose to be away from the dents." employees. Bloomington campus for the fall 
Sperber, who has written exten­CNN/SI interviewed Sperber for its semester. We readily accommodat­sively on college sports, was grant­hour-long May expose, which fea­ed his request." ed an unpaid leave of absence for tured a tape of Knight striking for­Sperber will be paid half his the fall semester in .June after he mer player Neil Reed. After the pro­salary for the spring semester. dur­
received threats from ardent Knight gram aired, Sperber was thrust into ing which he will stay in supporters. He told police he had the national spotlight. The media Bloomington. Sperber said he wants received many angry phone mes-frequently quoted him, and he to devote time to work on his fourth 
UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO 
Student reporter rejects plea deal 
BOULDER, Colo. 
"Stick it." That's what former Colorado Daily Staff Writer Brian Hansen said on Monday after turning down an offer from the U.S. Attorney's office that would have ended the case pending against him in a federal court. "I turned down their deal in large part because of the new federal policy that's been issued regarding the arrest and prosecution of members of the news media," Hansen said. "For me the deal offered was a desperate face-saving measure for the prosecutor -[assistant U.S. Attorney] Craig Wallace -who may very well himself have run afoul of the law in proser.uting me." Hansen was arrested while covering a civil disobedience pn_>test by environmentalists at a federal forest near Vail's Category Ill commercial development on July 6, 1999. Police were in the process of arresting protesters when Hansen, just feet away from officers, was told to get "off the mountain" by agents of the United States Forest Service. 
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 
School sends coke-smuggler home 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
A University of Illinois student was s1rntenced lo six months "home confinement" and ordered to per­form 200 hours of community service Tuesday for attempting to smuggle drugs into the country, according to The Associated Press. Dominique Bryant, a junior, admitted to swallowing 30 capsules that contained a total of 125 grams of cocaine while in Montego Bay, .Jamaica in August 1998. Tim cap­sules were wrapped in plastic, and Bryant said she swallowed them by eating crackers and tea. When Bryant returned to the country, she took laxatives in Chicago to help get the capsules out of her system. 
U.S. District .Judge .James llolderman, who sen­tenced Bryant, told her she is allowed to leave her Urbana residence only to go to classes, the grocery store and church. Any other reasons Bryant would have to leave her residence would have to be approved by probation officials. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWnthcr •forecast for davtime conditions and hieh temperacun:s  
H L Thursday !1 80 58 Friday ~ 82 65 Saturday ~;,;} 80 63 Sunday ~ 81 62 Monday ~ 84 65  

The AccuWeathe,., forecast for noon, Thursday, Aug. 24. 
_._.._
............ ........... 
C 2000 AccuWealhltf, Inc, COLO WARM STATIONARY 
Pnw.ura: 
® © D D D D D D 
High Cow Shower• Aaln T-atorrn• flurrlH Snow 1.. Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy V1• As.,oc,•1lf0 Prr,s:s 

Atlanta 90 70 Las Vegas 99 77 Portland 89 59 Baltimore 82 64 Memphis 95 73 Sacramento 90 62Q,Q,Q4E}Q t) ~ u Boston 76 62 Milwaukee 77 62 SI. Louis 96 72 
Showers T-srorms Rain Flumas Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 80 59 New York 76 66 Tampa 92 74 Via AssocitJled Pre• GraphicsNet Houston 96 72 Philadelphia 84 64 Wash DC 82 65 





page 3

Thursday, August 24, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE

Faculty athletic chair seeks balance 
SMC officers support 

He looks forward to the job. recruits, especially in the high­By TIM LOGAN "I have a deep interest in both profile sports of football and Scniur St.1ffWri1er academks and athletics and I men's basketball. After the foot­
want to maintain a critical bal­ball team's recflnt struggles, 
study days proposal 

llis nickname evokes the idea ance between the two," Dutile some alumni have called for the 
SENIOR PORTRAITS 
of a now sheriff riding into I.own to keep order, and law profossor Fernand "Tex" Dutile, the newlv nam11d • chair of the Far:ulty Board on t\ihlctics. will hn trv­ing to do jusl lhat in 
the delicate 
balance of 

Dutile

athletics 
and arado­
mics at Notre Dame. 
University prnsident Fathtw Edward Malloy appointed Dutile lo chair the board in July. Dutile rcplacns formPr executive vice prnsidenL rather William lfoauchamp in another step in the restructuring that has reshaµed the Alhletic DepartmPnt since December, when the NCAA handed Notre Danrn its first-ever major viola­tion. 
Before he was removed by the Borrrd or Trustees in May, Beauchamp, who oversaw the Athletic Department, also chaired the Faculty Board and was Notre Dame's NCAA faculty representative. 
Now. new athIetic di rector 
Kevin \,\'bite reports directly to 
Malloy, and a law professor, 
Dutile, has taken on 
Beauchamp's role as a faculty 
leader in athletics. 
said. "I hope that the board will Universil.y to lower those stan­
be very active in building upon dards, hut Dutile said he does not the work done by the previous believe in that. chairs. Father Heauchamp and "I think that Notre Dame can !former executive vice president] maintain its academic standards 
Father [EdJ Jovce did excel­lc~t work."  "J haoe a deep interest in  and be com­petitive and I think we  
The  board  both academics and  should strive  
works, behind scenes.  often the as an  athletics and I want to maintain a, critical  to do that," he said. "There's a line below  
advisory com­mittee to  balance between the two. "  which at least I don't want to  
Malloy on edu­cational issues related to ath­ Fernand "Tex" Dutile chair, Faculty Board on Athletics  go in order to v\,in." Dutile has  

letics. Its 1 S members approve game and µraclice schedules and determine athletic eligibility, as well as try to improve academic services for student-athletes. Its rhair is onP of the four pPople on campus who works with tho 
NCAA. 

Notre Dame joins most other schools in having an l\CAA rcp­resPntaiive from the tflaching faculty outside tho athletic or admin.istrative hierarchy. Dutile said he thinks this is a good idea. 
"You have more confidence and influence with the faculty," he said. "It's more balanced." 
Striking a balance between academic integrity and athletic success at Notre Dame can be a challenge. High admissions stan­dards eliminate many potential 
long heen 
active on 
University committees. He has served on the Academic Council for 25 years, sat on s~arch committees fur Notre Dame's last two provosts and was acting dean of the Law School from 1991-1993. He was also a member of the Fa<"ultv Board on Athletics from 1991-98. 
In announcing the appoint­ment, Malloy emphasized Dutile's experience and said he is the right man for the job. 
"Tex Dutile has earned a richly deserved reputation for his intel­ligence, judgment, independence and integrity," he said. "I have great confidence in Tex and I know that the University will be well served with him in these two critically important positions." 
Observer Staff Report 
After a year of work by the previous Board of Governance, the Saint Mary's 2000-01 Board of Governance is preparnd to forward a pro­posal for the implementation of study days at Saint Mary's to the Academic Standards committee. 
The proposal, authored hy former student body president Nancy Midden and vice presi­dent Angie Little, was pre­sented to Jeff Bresse, chair of the Faculty Assembly, by r,ur­rent student body president Chrissie Renner and vice president Michelle Nagle. Bresse then forwarded the proposal to Susan Vanek, chairwoman of Academic Standards. 
Renner is proud to see Midden and Little's hard work finally coming to a conclusion. 
"Nancy and Angie arc just across the street now at Notre Dame Law School to watch their goal go forward," Renner said. 
Renner hopes that the close relationship between students and administrators at Saint Mary's will lead to the pro­posal's adoption. The Academic Standards commit­tee includes faculty, staff and students. Nagle and Kelly 
Dugan serve as the student representatives on the com­mittee. 
"Shared governance is very uniqufl to Sa.int Mary's College," Renner said. 
In Other ROG News: 
. The Board discussed opening up class elections to students studying abroad. Notre Dame already allows studying away from campus to vote in campus elections. Concerns with abroad voting procedures in the event of a tie prevented the BOG from adopting a resolution. 
"Our biggest concern right now is in the event of a run­off we aren't sure what tu do," Renner said. "We want [voting] to be as private and accurate as possible." 
. 
Student Activities director Georgeanna Rosenbush intro­duced the new assistant director of Student Activities. Theresa Schaffer will super­vise the freshman and sopho­more class boards as well as Dalloway's Coffee House. 

. 
The Eucharistic Congress will he held Saturday begin­ning at 1 p.m. with a brunch in Noble Family Dining Hall. A procession from Holy Cross Circle to the Joyce Center will begin at 2:45 p.m. The event is for all religions. 



page 4 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, August 24, 2000 
Government grants Hawaiians new status 
for in a 199:{ rongressional res­Associated l'ress 
olution, signed by President Clinton. apologizing for
IIONOLlJI.U 

America's role in the 1893
AcknowlPdging "Jr,ss than 

overthrow of Qunen
lionorab!(, .. actions liy the Lili' unkalani. Five years afterllnited Statns against Nativn 
the overthrow, the United
llawaiians mon• than a cm1tury States annt>xed Hawaii. 
ago, llw fodcral govnrnnwnt 
The 100th an niversarifls of
rncomnwnrlml WNlrwsday that 
those events added momentumindig(•nous islanders ho giVfm 
to the fragmentod Hawaiian
the same sovereign status as 
sovereignty movement. whose 
most /\rnnrican Indians. 
goals rnnge from restoring theTlw plan, similar to legisla­monarchy and d,\claring inde­tion propm,Pll by Sen. Daniel 
pcndnnce from the Unitr.d
;\kaka aims States to 
to givn Native 
crnating a
llawaiians "The past history of state-within-·
grnatnr con­
United States4 Native a-state gov­
trol ovnr 
ernment for
th1dr lands Jlawaiian relations 
Hawaii's
and cultural affirms instance:; in 
200,000
resourcns 
which U..'i·. actions were indigenous
and to pro­
residents.
tect rnorP less than honorable. " 
"The past
than 180 ll.S. 
history of
govnrmrwnt­
Jacqueline Agtuca Unitod
fundod pro­
director, Office of Tribal Justice States­
grams 
including housing and lrnalth rnrP ~ primarily b1,iw­fiting thnrn 
Many Hawaiian leaders say t!Jose programs wern thrcat­mwd hy a U.S. Supreme Court ruling in Fnbruary that some lrnlinve cast doubt on the notion that NativP Hawaiians am Pntitl1\d to special privi­leges by mason of their ethnici­ty. 
In that ruling. the nation's highest court thrnw out a Hawaii law barring non­Hawaiians from voting for trustees of the state Office of Hawaiian Affairs. 
Tim report is a product of hnarings held throughout the stale in December by Interior and .lusticn Department offi­cials. Those talks were called 
Native 
Hawaiian relations affirms instances in which U.S. actions were less than honoraLle," said Jacqudine Agtuca, acting director of the Justice Department's Office of Tribal Justice. "For justice to be served, the federal government should honor the unique rela­tionship that exists with Native llawaiians and respond to their desire for more local control." 
Assistant Interior Secretary John Berry said the draft report seeks to give Hawaiians limitf1d sovereignty. 
The report recommends that Congress approve legislation clarifying Native Hawaiians' political status and create a framework for recognizing a "government-to-government" 
relationship with a rnprosPnta­week. tive Native Hawaiian governing The report also recommends body. the establishment of an office 
The federal governme:nt rec­within the Interior Department ognizes 556 tribal flntities in to address Native Hawaiian the United States. issues. Akaka's bill makes a 
"Of equal importance is the: similar recommendation. 
federal  "The sflnsitiv­ 
govern­ment's dear rnaf­ "We're really on the cutting edge l~f a new  ity that they showed regard­ing thP  
firmation of the United States'  form ofgaining.federal recognition for native peoples."  Hawaiian peo­ple was heart­warming," OHA trustee Howena  
special  Akana said. "/\s  
responsi­bility for the wel­ Clayton Hee OHA board chairman  a native, it almost brings tears to my eyos  

fare of Native Hawaiians as a native people in the United States," Akaka said. 
Clarification of Hawaiians' political status is nr.eded to preserve state and federal funding of programs that bene­fit Native Hawaiians, who have some of the highest rates of povPrtv, illness and lack of accflss· to education in the state, Akaka and others have said. 
"The fact that this represfmts the position of the United States of America is significant beyond words," OHA board chairman Clayton Hee said. "We're really on the cutting edge of a new form of gaining federal recognition for native peoples." 
The report suggests using surplus military land as a base for Native Hawaiians and Hee believes military golf courses should be included. 
The Senate Committee on Indian Affairs and the House Resources Committee are scheduled to hold statewide hearings on Akaka's bill next 
110 years after the taking of our lands." 
The Interior and Justice departments will receivo public comment on the report in the next 30 days bef'orn it becomes final. 
Work 
continued from page I 
hc_iusP? the Mendoza Collngn 
ol Busmess. but sRrved as tlrn 
temporary location for most 
administrative olTicPs wh iIP 
Main Building was being rnn­
ovated. 
Upon compldion in the Sf~ring of 2001, tho buildings will house the Departnwnls of .Mathematics and 
International Stud ins. 
The Coleman/Morso Ccnl!!r 
and th1; theology and philoso­
phy building an, results of' Lim 
Generations Campaign. Thn 
campaign's goal of' $7(i7 mil­
lion is well past $900 million 
a n d w i11 co n t. in u ,1 u n ti I 
I> ecem b c r :; 1 . With such a successful fundraising cam­paign, morn construction pro­.Jects are possible. 

Notre Dame Tickets 
Buy /Sell/Trade 
Nebraska Wanted 
Preferred Tickets 
234-5650 



Thursday, Augusc 24, 2000 C0MPILEJ) FROM THE OBSEHVER WIHE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
China arrests Christians: Poli(:c in n:ntral China arrnsted l 30 members of an undPrground Christian evangelical group on Wednesday. including thnw American citizens, a human rights ~roup reported. Thr r,hurrh membPrs wern snized in an afternoon raid in I Ir.nan province's Xihua county and have been dnLaincd ,Lt Lhe c.ounty _jail. Lim Information Center for Human Hights and Demorracy rcportnd. 
Turkey quake injures nine: A strong quako sf1110K western Turkey yostcrday. hitting an arPa devastated by a massive quake last yc,u-Nine people were injured. apparently when they jumped out or buildings in panic. pri­vate NTV television reported. Tlw quak<'. with a prnliminary magnitude of 5.8. was centered near the town of Ilendck. said Ahmct Mete lsikarn. head of lsLanbul's Kandilli Observatory. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Mom abandons children: The relatives of a woman charged \-\'ith abandoning her three children in a library said they were stunned by lrnr actions and intended t.o fight to keep the children in their family. Hosina Mack, 20. who was charged with t'P.lony child neglect. told police slw wanted a break from her children and thought the library was a safe place to 
l!'aVf' them. Virginia Beach police spokesman Mike Carey said Wednesday. "She just dropped Llwm o!T and walked ,1way:· Carey said. 
Keys evacuate visitors: Visitors were ordnred to leave the Florida Keys on WcdnPsday as oflkials prepared for the possi­bility that Tropir,al Storm Debby could hit Florida as a hurrkane. Monroe County, which encompasses the island chain. declared a state of emergency \-vith Debby still hundreds of miles away. "It rnuld be powerfully close by Friday," said Mkhael Tichacek, a meteorolo­gist at the National Hurrir.ane Center. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Cleanup costs triple: The cost of dncontaminating and demolishing the Continental Steel Supcrfund site has more than tripled, jumping from $8.7 million to $31 mil­lion. Final rnmedial action at the site is expect­ed to cost $85 million. The rising cost of the project led Hep. Steve Buyer and Ohio Congressman Mike Oxley to Kokomo Tuesday lo tour the site and discuss the need to reform the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Superf"und Program. 13uyer and Oxley discussed the imporlance of decentralizing the system of administering Superfund operations from Washington. 
Market watch 8/23 

Dow 
11144.65 +5.50

]ONES 
CompositeUp, Same: Down: 
• 
Volume:

l.287 S45 1,496 866.453,312 
AMEX: 924.10 + 1.35 
Nasdaq: 401 J.01 +52.80 
NYSE, 671.62 +0.46 
S&P 500: 1505.97 +7.84 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN !'RICE <"ISC(l SYSTEMS (C$CO) +.~.67 12..iT'5 67.1') l>SLNET INC (OSL,'I) ,41U8 •2. 5112 871 INTEI. C:ORl'IINTC) +j.4(1 +2.4950 74,62 llHL U l,\ll'l/TER (DELL) ,.U5 +1.252) .l8.W WORLOCOM INC (WCOl-.11 ,(),72 +0.2475 .S4.)() 

BAHRAIN 
Associated Press 
MANAMA 
A Gulf Air Airbus A320 
on a flight from Cairo 
with 143 people on board, 
more than 30 of them 
children. crashed 
Wednesday night in the 
waters of the Persian Gulf 
after circling and trying 
to land in Bahrain. 
U.S. Navy helicopters, destrovers and an ocean­going"tug with a 10-ton crane joined the night­time search and rescue effort, three or four miles off the northern coast of Bahrain. which is head­quarters of the U.S. 5th Fleet. 
Seventy bodies were recovered within the first hours after the crash and no survivors were found. said Bahraini Civil Defense Commander Brigadier Abdul-Rahman Bin Rashed Al Khalifa. He told state-run television that divers will begin a search for the flight's voice cockpit and data recorders at first light. 
An air traffic controller at the Bahrain airport, reached by telephone, described watching the plane circle the runway twice in an attempt to land. then on the third attempt plunge into the 
sea  and  explode  into  
flames.  
The  controller,  who  

spoke on condition his name not be used, saw no flames or sign of trouble before the crash and could not immediately explain why the plane cir­cled before landing. He said the plane's crew did not report anything out of the ordinary. He gave the time of the crash as 7:20 
p.m. (12:20 p.m. EDT.) 
"I could not believe my eyes," said Sobeih, 27, a resident of the nearby neighborhood of Al-Fodha who saw the plane go down. "When I saw it heading toward the sea nose down, I screamed 'Oh my God, this thing is going down."' 
Sobhi and Riyadh. 24, another AI-Fodha resi­dent. said the plane flew unusually low over their heads heading to the run­way, but took a sharp turn toward the sea. 
Both men, who would not give their full names, said the plane returned minutes later flying even lower but headed straight to the sea where it crashed. They said unusual noises came from the plane's engines, but they saw no flames. 
"I was in a state of shock," said Riyadh. 

Typhoon Bilis pounds coastal China 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 
Typhoon 13ilis churned into coastal China Wednesday, bringing heavy rain and gale-force winds but little of the destruction it left across Taiwan. where it wrecked homes and killed 11 people. 
There were no reports of injuries or serious damage in China's Fujian provinre, where Bilis made landfall Wednesday afternoon before dying out further inland. said a government spokesman in the port city of Xiamen. who gave only his surname, Xie. 
Municipal workers were keeping watch through the night. for flooding and other damage from the torrential rains expected to follow the typhoon. the spokesman said. 
Xiamcn had prepared for a major storm, giving city workers the day off as Bilis moved in. The Xiamen ferry service and a local airline shut down operations, television stations and the state-run Chinese news agency Xinhua reported. 
Boats were ordered into port along the Fujian coast, and airports in Xiamen and the provincial capital, Fuzhou, closed for part of the day, television reports said. TV footage showed signboards blown down and city residents negotiating streets in the wind and rain. 
A government statement, read on Chinese television, expressed "deepest condolences" to victims of the typhoon in Taiwan, where 11 people were killed. 80 injured and thousands stranded in makeshift shelters. The statement, issued by the government's Central Office for Taiwan Affairs, was markedly different in tone from the usual blustery Chinese pronounce­ments on Taiwan. which Beijing con­siders a breakaway province. 
Among the dead in Taiwan were seven farmers and a 6-year-old girl buried in a mudslide. 


page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, August 24, 2000 
'1 Am With You Always" 

~!J:iocese of Fort Wayne/South Bend 
SCHEDULE -~S 
·• \~ ... 7'~"9"" ­
10~~ ~~m .., _,,(~E .,\:~~~rService: Sacred Heart Basilica 
11:00 
a.m. Keynote:Addresl in the Joyce Center 

11
:00 -I :00 p.m. Musical stage performances DeBartolo Quad 


1:00 -3:00 P·~;,, _ F~ily and Teen Presentations in the Stepan ~enter ~ 
1h.i, 
.,p 

I :00 -2:00 p.ni~. W,orkshops Session I 
~ .-.' 

2:30 -3:30 p.~~rkshops Session II 
• Workshops ~f)eBartolo Hall and McKenna Hall 
'->"'>-''?
Ill,.,. --~­
...,,..<
f·---..:¾..i.~:.:.~~ 
: "-. .
-<,... ~~· ·..£~.;.
, ....l,~;f,! 

4:00 p.m. -:.t~/'.~!~fyde: Narrative history of our diocese 
4:30 p.m. ~ration of the Holy Eucharist at the Joyce Center: 
• Doors open··-. "''~.m. Overflow seating available in the adjacent fieldhouse and-ilie.~M~ will be televised on closed-circuit television. 
. -u..··,··-~-i 
,---,.; 

Ongoing Events thro~gh~i-tbe Day 
·-•~.-._ 
11:00-3:00p.m. . -~._t the G7:otto hourly led by parish groups. 
• 1:00 p.m. Rosary will be·. ln.Spanzsh. 
--~ 
Noon -3:00 p. m. Reconcilid;tj_on 
• There will be 30 reconciliation.site.f>·WJC~ted throughout the campus. Four sites will be located in the Basilica. Bilingual confessors ava';,iable.-::. 
Noon -3:00 p. m. Eucharistic Exposi,tion and Adoration in Alumni Hall. 
Join us in celebrating the Jubilee Year 2000 THIS SATURDAY! 
For more info, check out www-.diocesefwsb.org 

Thursday, August 24, 2000 
The Observer . HEALTH NEWS page 7 
Guidelines grant stem cell funds 
GerID exposure Dlay 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

New federal guidelines to allow federal funding of human embryo cell research may prompt a revolution in medical sciflnce, leading to dramatic new ways to treat virtually every human disorder. But anti-abor­tion groups are vigorously opposed, saying the research means "you have to kill a human embrvo." 
The National Institutes of Health guidelines, announced Wednesday. allow federal fund­ing for research with stem cells that have been removed from human embryos. The rules for­bid research on the embryo itself, which is prohibited by fed­eral law. 
Experts say the effect wi.11 be that privately funded researchers will remove stem cells from embryos -which already has been done at two universities -and that these stem cells then could be used in federally funded studies. 
Opponents quickly denounced federal research with embryo cells. 
"You have to kill a human embryo to get them," said Douglas Johnson, legislative director of the National Right to Life Committee. He vowed: "There will be a legal chal­lenge." 
Stem cells form very early in the gestation of a human being. They are the predecessors of all the tissues in the body -the heart, brain, skin and bone. Scientists have found that the embryonic stem cells can be 
rJA.££E'l 

•Introduction to all levels 
• Students are Instructed according to their level Classes Meet;The fun way to stay healthy and fit 
Beginner  Sundays  1 :00pm-2:30pm  
Wednesdays  6:30pm-7:45pm  
Advanced  Sundays  2:30pm-4:00pm  
Wednesdays  7:45pm-9:00pm  
Pointe  Sundays  4:00pm-4:4Spm  
Wednesdays  9:00pm-9:30pm  

All classes meet at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Information Meeting 
Sunday, August 27 

2:00pm -Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Register in Advance at RecSPorts Registration Fee is $39.00 for Ballet & $10 for Pointe Sign-Ups Begin Monday, August 28 -8:00am Space is Limited 
R-~ 

prompted to evolve into the indi­
vidual types of cells found in 
each of the organs of the body. 
President Clinton said the stem 
cells offer "potentially staggering 
benefits" for a wide variety of 
medical conditions. 
Last week Great Britain's gov­
ernment said it would introduce 
legislation to allow similar 
research in that nation. 
Dr. John Gearhart of Johns 
Hopkins University in Baltimore 
said research with lab mice had 
shown that stem cells can 
restore nerve tissue and some 
function following stroke or 
spinal cord injury. The cells can 
also regrow bone marrow lost to 
disease or radiation, he said. 
"We believe that stem cell 
research will enable us to treat 
many diseases in a whole new 
way," said Dr. Paul Berg. a 
Nobel laureate from Stanford 
University. 
Some researchers believe it may eventually be possible to nurture stem cells into whole new organs. They talk of grow­i~g new hearts and lungs and !Ivers to restore health to ailing humans. 
Research into such possibili­ties, said Gearhart, "will move forward more rapidly" under the new guidelines. 
The new guidelines "will enable research to advance without violating the ethical sen­sibilities of the American peo­ple," said Berg. "It would be immoral not to pursue this research within the bounds of these guidelines." 
Johnson, however, said: "It is research that must start with the death of a human embryo." He said that even though the actual death of the embryo is not fund­ed by the government, the stem cell research prompts the death. 

Wednesday, August 23rd 9 pm to 2 am 

prevent asthilla 
Associated Press 
Early exposure to other youngsters and their germs appear.s to protect children from developing asthma later on, according to a study that could reassure parents feel­ing guilty about putting their infants in day care. 
The study found that chil­dren who attended day care in their first six months or had two or more older sib­lings were about half as likely t.? have asthma at age 13 as youngsters who had one or no older siblings and did not attend day care until they were older. 
T h i s cases . among children, accordmg to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
The new study. funded by the National Heart, Lung and ~lood Institute, was published rn Thursday's issue of the New England Journal of Medicine. 
Researchers at the University of Arizona College of Medicine have been follow­ing about 1,000 children for 15 years, studying their respi­ratory health and allergens in t~eir environ_ment. After pre­v10usly showmg that children in day care get more respira­tory infec­tions than 
'This paper reflects the others, the
echoes the 
researchers
hot new growing belief that the 
examined
"hygiene 
more sterile the early 
more close­
theory" 
environment the more ly the role
that says 
of day care
children problems later in life. " 
and family
who do not 
size.
get outside 
Dr. Leonard Bielory T h e y
and get 
director, Asthma and Allergy found that
dirty every 
protection
now and Research Center 
then are not being exposed to enough germs to stimulate proper development of their immune systems. 
"This paper reflects the growing belief that the more sterile the early environment, the more problems later in life," said Dr. Leonard Bielory, director of the Asthma and Allergy Research Cent_e~ at the University of Med1cme and Dentistry of New Jersey in Newark. 
The findings come amid an unexplained explosion of asthma among children and worries that smaller families and households scrubbed with antibacterial cleansers ~ay be weakening our immune systems. 
Asthma cases jumped 158 percent from 1980 through 1998, with many of the new 
against 
asthma 
came from frequent exposure to other youngsters, but only if the contact took place in the first six months, a key period for a new immune system. 
The theory is that if the immune system iim't stimulat­ed early in life by germs, it ~lVerr~acts later to allergy­rnducrng substances, said Anne Wright, a pediatrics research professor who led the study. 
The children most exposed to other youngsters were about 40 percent more likely than the group with less con­tact to suffer from frequent wheezing in their first few years. But doctors believe that in toddlers, wheezing usually is due to their small airways or respiratory infec­tions. 
®f(W[ID~~ij ®[P[§© .~[L~ 
THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE 
Home Delivered1 On or Off Campus For Only: 
$2.25 Per Week! 
FOR 7 DAY DELIVERY 
W(O)illf §AVJE CID®% 
SEE OUR SALES REP AT: 
LaFortune Student Center 
AUGUST21THROUGH28 
FROl\1 
7:00 TO 8:00 
Thursday, August 24, 2000

page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
ICELAND 

Lost WWII pilots­-retreived from ice 
Associated Press 
REYKJAVIK 
The bodim; of four World War II airmon from Britain's air f'orcu, trapporl in an lcelanrlic glacier for nt!urly 60 years, will at hLst b(i buri,id at a cnmetory in Hnykjavik. 
,\ Hoyal Air Force search team was working Wednnsday to rntriove the bodies for a funoral Sunday at thr. 

!\kureyri Museum. after a 20­ycar search. 
"Tho breakthrough came last summer when a friend of mine went to the British Public Hecord Office and found the original accident investigation report, which had a precise grid rcfornnco," said Geirsson, 40. 
La.st summer in Iceland was the warmest for many years and the ice melted. revealing the crash site. Geirsson had walked over it in 
Fossvogur "We were shocked to }ind previous<:ommonwealth 
the wreckage -small. attempts 
war ccmctnry 

to find the
sad human remains and

in the capital planA. H1!ykajvik. personal possessions -" W e 
TIH! boditis, 

all perfectly preserved w e r e 
revealed last shocked to year by nrnlt.ing by the ice. " f i n d ice. am those of wreckage Flying Officer -small,
Hardur Gelrsson 

Arthur Hound, sad human
curator, Akur~yri Museum 
a New 
Zoaland(>r, Flight Sgt. Heginald II op kins of Southampton, England; Pilot Oflicer I lenry Talbot of Bedford, England. and Flight Sgt. Keith (;arrnt of Worksop, England. 
l'il()t Hound. who was 26, and navigator llopkins, 21, had nown tlwir Fairey Battle bomber lo pick up Talbot, 24, and Garrnt, 22, who had bnen receiving treatm1\11t on a hospi­tal ship doc.k1id at the town or i\kurPyri. 
The plane carrying the four men took off from the Akureyri airlifi!d in fog on the morning of May 2f>, 1941. and craslrnd into a mountainside about 30 miles 

remains 
and per­sonal possessions -all perfect­ly preserved by the ice," said Geirsson. There was a tooth­brush, a collar with the name of one of the airmen inside, and a wallet, he said. "Everything was scattered around and although I had been looking for it for so long. I didn't feel happy when I finally found the aircrafl." 
Major John Sim, a member of the original search party. was quoted by London's Sunday Times newspapnr as saying he had always been haunted by his superiors' decision to leave the bodies. 
"We had no body bags. no way of bringing the bodies 
RUSSIA 
Putin, defense ministers take blame 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

As Russians mourned in churches, on Web sites and at home, a humble President Vladimir Putin said Wednes­day he felt 
responsible and guilty for a sub­marine dis­aster that killed l 18 sailors and outraged the nation. 

Hu s s ia·s Putin 
Defense Minister Igor Serg<iyev and navy chinf Adm. Vladimir Kuroyedov submitted their res­ignations over the loss of the Kursk, one of Russia's most 
advanced submarines before an explosion crumpled it Aug. 12, but Putin said he would not accept them. Seeking scape­goats, he said, would be "the most mistaken response." 
"I take a full sense of respon­sibility and sense of blame for this tragedy," he said in an interview with state-run HTH television, . 
In a country where a history of authoritarianism runs deep, Putin's comments demonstrat­ed a sensitivity to public opin­ion and eagerness to regain the nation's confidence unpreco­dented for a Hussian leader. 
Hussians assailed Putin and the government for their slow, contradictory reaction to the disaster and the botched rescue operation, and many observers expected Put'in to respond by firing top brass -as his prode­cessor Boris Yeltsin had often done. 
Putin's interview came as Hussia held a day of mourning for the victims, and after he sat through a harrowing thren­hour meeting with the sailors' families late Tuesday night at the submarine's home base of' Vidyayevo. 
"The conversation was very heartfelt. Ile admitted his guilt and inactivity, and he said the main thing is a lack of funds," said Oksana Oudko, whose husband Sergei was the ship's deputy commander. 
Speaking firmly and somber­ly in the lelovision interview, Putin defended his initial silence and the slow response to foreign rescue help, saying the navy acted as quickly as they could given how little thny knew about the submarine's condition. 
He also promised to restore the honor of the beleaguernd military and the nation. 
"It grieves me. the theory lately that together with tlrn Kursk the honor of the navy also drowned, the honor of Hussia," Putin said. "Our coun­try has survived a lot." 
"We will overcome it all and restore it all, the military and the navy and the state," he said. 
The nation lowered !lags to half staff and prayed in Orthodox churches Wednesday. Television interrupted some programming, and Russia's most popular web site. anek­dot.ru. displayed an empty 
black screen throughout the day. 
Stunned. heartbroken rela­
tives refused to join in thP. 
mourning, demanding that 
their sons and husbands be 
retrieved from the sea floor -first. 
Putin promised that lhe bod­ies would be rncovnred. and said the divers might cut a hole in the ship or lift it to shallower waters. lie said talks were under way with Norwegian and Dutch divers. 
But Mikhail Kuznetsov, com­mander of the Vidyaycvo sub­marine garrison, said tlrn work couldn't begin until aftnr next spring's thaw. 
The Krnmlin promised com­pcmsation to the families, who had relied on the sailors· mea­ger salaries for subsistence. The federal government promiS(~d a one-time payment averaging $7,000 por family equal to IO years of pay for a submarine omcer. said Doputy Prime Minister Valentina Matviyenko. 
Putin attacked intcrost 
groups that fw said wern trying 
to cash in on the tragedy, an 
apparent shot at tycoon Boris 
Bcrnzovsky, who is backing tlrn 
main fund collecting donations 
for tho families. Bernzovsky 
accused Putin of unjustiliPd fin­
ger-pointing. 
The Norwegian divers who rnached the wrecked ship said Wcdnosday thnir work at the site was technically simple but emotionally dnmanding. They took ovnr from Hussian t<iams that had strugglnd for a wcrnk without succnss. 

away. down," he said. "We returned 
Wrnckage was found two days with a padre and a makeshift latl'f. and a week after the wooden cross and conducted a crash a small burial party. service on the glacier. I always including the squadron chap­had tlrn gut feeling that they 
lain. lmld a servicn and placnd a should not have been left up small cross on th£' spol. them." The lti\F pulled out ol' Iceland The HAF has invited relatives 
two months laltir, and the prn­of the l'our men to the memorial cisn location of the crash site service. was lost as it beramc entombed Icelandic coast guard planes in icn. will fly past, and the British 
It was found last year by ambassador to Iceland will lay a llardur Ceirsson, curator of wreath. 
FULLBRIGHT COMPETITION 2001-2002 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 24 -6:30 P.M. 
126 DeBartolo with Professor Alain Toumayan, Advisor 
NOTRE Gj).AME 


RO\VING GLUB 
ATTENTION, GRADUATE STUDENTS! 

If you have club or collegiate rowing experience, If you have three afternoons of free time, If you want to continue to be active in the sport you love, 
the Notre Dame Rowing Club is currently 
in need of novice coaches. 
IF INTERESTED, CALL ED AT 243-28 96. 
page 9 

Thursday, August 24, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

VIEWPOINT 
THE 
page I 0 OBSERVER Thursday, August 24, 2000 
=-================================----:::::::::.=-_-_------_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-___-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_--==========---­
THE OBSERVER 
P 0. lln, Q, Notre !l'1m<, TN 4655(, 024 Sm1th Dining 11,111, Notre Dome, IN 46~~(, EDITOR IN CmEF /\like Connolly 

MANAGING Flll'IOII  8!1SINF-~S MANA<;J.R  
Nor,•en Gillespi"  Tim Lane  
ASST. MANAGING ElllTOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Chrimnt· Kr.dy  liri.111 Kessler  

Ni;ws El>ITOR: Anne Marie Maningly Vll'Wl'OINT EUITOR: Lil,1 H.111ghey .SPORTS ElllTOll: Kerry Smiil1 SCENF. Er>IToR, Amwd:t (;rt'CO SAINT MAI<Y'S EOITOII: Molly McVuy l'tlOTo EDITOR: El11_abed1 l..1n~ 
AllVl'.RTISING MANAC:FR: Pai l'ewr, AD DESIGN MANAGl:H: Chris Avila SYSTBlS AnMINlSTPATOR, ,'vfike Gunvillc WE11 AUMINISTIIATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLi.rn: ll11h \X'<>nds GRAPll!C, EPITOR: ln<c Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OJFICE MAl':A<:111/GI.NEIIAI. l.'ff0 ..... (i.l l-71171 FAX.... .. ....6~1-(,')27 At>Vl.lfflSING .................................... (d !-6900/8840 
ohscrverG.7\Lt rwin .cc.n d .t..•du ElllTOll IN Cl!IEl ......................................CiJl-4542 MANAGING Enrrcm/ASST. ME ..... .............c,., 1-4541 llllSINE.~S 0HJCF... . ............... 6.31-5.3 U Nrws ................. . .. ....................... 631-532.'l 
ohscrver.nhsncws. J@-'n<l.cd11 

VIEWl'OINT................................................6J (.5j0j observa.vicwroinr. l@nJ.edu SJ•OlffS.. .... ............................................../i.1l-4543 observer.spam. l@nd.edu Scf.NE.........................................................(>.l 1-4540 ohscl'\'er.scenc. l@lnd.cd11 SAINT MAIIY's.............................................63 l-4324 
obscrvcr.smc. l@nJ.edu i'IIOTO.. .... . .................6J 1-8767 SYSTF.Ms/WF.11 AllMINISl'RATORS................6.'\ i-883'J 
AHE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Wch sire .n httf':llo/,.en,r,·.wledu for d:iily u1·H11tcs ot· ca1npu!t nc:,.V!-., ~Jl(>rr~. t~·Jcures and opinio11 rnlu111111, a.1 wdl as c.irtoons, fl•vicw, .ind breaking news from rhc A.sso.:iatt·d Press. 
Si:JU TO: 
weather l,,r up-111-the 
movies/music for 

nlintlft' f(.lTtC,lSt!li 
weekly student reviews 

,1<fverti!le f~ 1r polil"ie, 
online features l,,r spe­

.tnd r.11cs nfprint .,d, 
cial campt1s coverage 
ahout The Observer

archives to search for 
.,nidcs puhlish,•d alter 
to meet the editors an.l 

Augmr 19')') 
staff 

POLICIES 
!'he Observer is rhe independent, daily nt'wsp:ipcr puhlished in prif11 .rnd nnline by rhe students ,,r rhe University of Notre Dame du l.ac and Saim Maty's Colle~c. Ediiorial contc11t, including advenisemenrs, is no, governed hy pnlici<'s of ,he administration ofeither ins1i1111ion. The Ohservcr reserves d,c right to refuse :idvertiscments ha,ed on conwu. 
The nc:ws is reponeJ as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of tht' majority ufthe Editor in Chid'. Managing Ediwr, Assisram l\,fonaging Editor and department editors. Co111111cn1:1rics, lencrs Jnd colt1mns present rhc views of,he author, and not nc-ccssarily those ofThe ( )hscrvcr. 
Vi,-wpoim ,pace is available IO all readers. The free expre1sio11 ofall opinions through leuers is ,·ncouraged. l.t.•{tl•r~ co 1hc Ediror must he signed ,uul must include rnnr,rct information. 
(i_urstumi rrr.,mimy_ Obsn:wr policies should hr dirm­rtl ro 1-.'cliwr i11 ChiefA!ikr Comwlfy. 
DILBERT 
Welcoming the stranger to campus 
The beginning of' Pach school year is a pc1riod of'welcome. Welcome to incoming lirst year students. Welcome back to rf!lurning st.urlrmts. Such greetings are found virtually (Wcrywherc on campus 
from ads in The Obsnrwr to thn spmiclrns or Dnans. The message of this wclconw is, "You should treat this placl' as your honw." l{pf!'rcnccs to lhc "Notre Danw family" 

arP both frequent Todd David 
uncl g1\nuine. 
Whitmore 
Christian and 
otlwr mligious litnr­
atures of'tnn discuss The Common 
Llw idea and prac­Good 
tict' or welcoming 
sonwont' into one's 
homo undcr tlw "hospitality." In the N<'w 
T1islament. the word for hospitality is 
"philoxonia." It moans, ''lovo of 
slrangPrs," as oppos!'CI t11 "x<!noµhubia," 
which translates. "fear ofstrangers." 
William l'laclwr, in his book, "Narrativns of' a Vulnerable God," makns tlw implications of tlrn l<wms quite clear, "Nnw Tnstament tnxts find a variety of' ways to challenge a model of a communi­ty of insidPrs who nxclude ... A Christian church cannot ch\[inn itself as a commu­nity of privilege ... ;\ community that l'aithf'ullv attPnds to the narratives of' the crucificc°l Jesus cannot be a community that excludes. Christians am a p<!ople· who have senn that scapegoats am inno­cnnl. Wlwn we try to get into the in­crowd by joining in their ridicule or pcr­sec-ution of 1hose they exclude; we find, as l'Ptrir did in that c·ourtyard so long ago. that .lnsus stands among thos1, we haw just cxcludnd, and wn havr snparat­NI ourselws f'rom him." 
Catholi1· tnaching focusAs on hospitality in a number of plac'.CS. Paul \'L for instance, writes in "Populorum l'rogn\ssio," that tlwre is a "duty ofwc1l­coming otlwrs -a duty springing from human solidarity and Christian charity." John Paul JI, in "Familiaris Consortio," nmphasizes tlrn "ever greater importance in our sociPty of' hospitality in all its forms ... In a special way tlrn Christian f'urnily is callr.d upon to listen to the apos­tle's recommendation: 'Practice hospitali­ty,' and thernf"ore, imitating Christ's 1~xample and sharing in his love. wel­ronw tlm brother or sister in need." 
Ijoin with others in extending to you ­new and returning students -a wel­come to our community. Notrn Dame truly is a national, and increasingly international, university, with students coming from a widH range of geographi­cal locations. While campus ministry and the residential systnm do much to make our welcome dear, some of you. particu­larly first year students and students returning f'rom abroad, may at first feel like strangPrs. J>le11se takP our welcome to heart. 
I also inviw you and the whole or the Notn• Dame community to draw upon this period of welcome to ask how it might be extended even l'urther. What prompts this invitation is a comment by a partiripant in a project I am direc:ting which clevrlops programs in Catholic social teur,hing ut Catholic colleges and univPrsilics in the Unit.rd Statrs. This participant. who tnaches as Loyola University or Baltimore, comnwntml tliat it is somPlimes said al his school, "Thnrc is a lot of Lovola in Baltimore, but not much Baltirnnre in Loyola." 
What ho meant was that students and otlwrs at Loyola did a sig­nificant amount of' servico type rnluntcering in the widPr community -a lot of going into Baltimore's "hmnp" 
.and hclping out ­but that them was no rnal rnr.iproci­ty. no invitation to the rommuni­ty of Baltimorn to COllln to Loyola and witrwss to ti university. Tlrnrr were, tlrnrnf'ore, no 
real lessons  ·  _,  
learned  ,.  
lwyond tlw  .  ·  ,­ 
general  (/ 

V

ones that poverty is : .. ··· a harsh · ,.. · realitv and ' that r;rnny who arn poor struggle mightily to change their dr­curn­
stancr:s. Thes1! are 
indeed \ 
important 
~(:ssons, but 1! Limy are the only ones '•-.:· 
and if volun---­t0er service in ­the city is the only way that the university relates to the city, then, anoth­er project partici­pant added, we are left with a kind of paternalism that is 
inadequate as a model ~ for hospitality. l have sometimes won­dered whether Notre Dame follows a similar pattern in its intnractions with South Bend. Them is a genuine role for service to the communi­ty. When I st11rted with Big Brotlwrs/Rig Sisters nine years ago. I was told that the majority of volunteers were Notre Danrn students and that the organization could 
not flourish in tlw samP way without them. 
In addition, I have be11n told that the UnivHrsity leases tlrn Cent.Pr f'or the Ilomeless building to tho Contor for a dollar a month. providing a real financial servicl' that fow pnopln know about. But I also 01'l(11l twar Notrn Damn dnscribml as "sal'r" against tho "dangProus" South !fond. 
llndnr this rubric, South lknd is a plar,n for Notre Damn studcmt.s to snrvP. to be snrwcl lhenr), and in both to risk 
possibln bodily harm from city rnsi­dents. To tlw dogrn(' that w11 givn in to this as our prNlominant rubric, WP suc<·umb to X('llo­phobia, and tlwrnf'on•, in l'lacher·s words, "havn st•pa­ralf~d oursf'lvns" f'rom Christ. To rnovn towards a grnatPr snnsP of' philoxc>­nia. thn Univnrsit.y nerds to join with tlw city gowrnnwnt. of' 
South Bnnd and c:om­munity lnadnrs from busirwss and a host 
of ot.lrnr typPs of' 
associations t.o rrn­atr spacns ­storns, colfon shops, librarins, 
grnasy spoons. community Cl'll· tnrs -v.·lwrr\ both Univnrsitv mnm­
bnrs and°rommu­nit.v rnsidnnts ran mii1gll' and nvPn join togPtlwr in activity that is morn rnciprocal than unidirc•rtion­al Sl'rvic:n, as 
import.ant. as it. is, allows. In short. tlw Univnrsity IH't'Cls lo play a 
IPading -though not. domifiant ­
role in !wiping to c1stablish placns whern both it nwm­
i>Prs and thos11 of' the city can Im at honrn. Tlrn appointmnnt of' Lou Nanni as assistant to l'rnsidnnt Malloy bodns wnll in this rngard. Nanni knows both Notrn 
Dame and South l3Pnd : quitn woll. llc1 has lrnnn ccn­. tral to the CnntPr f'or the I lonrnln.ss. IIn and tlw rnst of 
s can hnlp bring South Brnd Notrn Damn and in this way say Welcome" to thn city. 
Todd !Ja/!id Whitmore is an assistant professor <f theology. !/is column appears e11ery otlwr Thursday. 
The 11iPws expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those <f The Ohsen,er. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
WOULD IT BE OKAY IF I WOR.KED PART TIME? 

8 WOULD YOU BE ~ 
SO, l3ASICALL Y j WILLING TO COME ~ 
YOU NEGOTIATED 

"All qf us do not hat•P equal talent, 
~ IN ON YOUR DAYS ~ 
A FIFTY PERCENT 
~ ~ 
but all <~f us should hat1e an op/Jorlunily to develop our lalenl." 
John F. Kennedy President 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Thursday, August 24 2000 BSERYER page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Reflecting on a life-changing 
•
experience 

Spring break ·oo is one I will never forget. It was the 
day so many lives changer! and the rlay I lost my b<'st 
friend. Kristi Morris and l were driving lo Myrtle Beach 
to visit a good friend of ours from high school who was 
going to school there I remember the day of our depar­
turn so clearly. lt seemed nothing would go our way. 
Kristi got two flat tirns on two different occasions, and it 
seemed I would never run out of errands to run. When 
we finally left at I0:30 p.m. that night the only care we 
had was getting them early enough to nap befon~ we 
wunl out lhal night. The feeling of, "ls this really happen­
ing''" had 11s so full of excitement. 
We had always gone on small trips together to Purdue 
and Cedar Point, but this was to be our senior spring . break and a trip to always remember. We stayed awake 
talking to each other for a couple of hours until Kristi fell 
asleep and the switching off began. It was Kristi's second 
time driving wlwn we crashed. It's crazy to think of how 
fast our lives can change, and then to actually have it 
happen. 
I was asleep and wokr, up to Kristi screaming and then 
it was ovnr as fast as it started. The truckers had me out 
or the car before I had a chance to comprehend what had 
just happened. or to even have a chance to say "good­
bye." I heard them yelling at each other to get the nre 
extinguishers. and others trying to help get Kristi out of 
thn car. So many people stoppe·d to help us; it's heart 
wrenching lo know I will never know who any of them 
are. The ambulance arrived and had me on the way to 
thn hospital when they told me. I could hear the EMT and 
the driver talking back and forth to each other and the 
radio keeping them updated. The EMT then told me the 
driver had passed him a note telling him Kristi didn't 
make it. Thr. feeling of hopelessness is so overwhelming 
tlrn only thing you can do is cry. 
It's amazing how your view of life changes when you 
cxperi1mr.c something so traumatic. Priorities change, 
friends change and everything you thought you knew is 
challenged. When I was in the ER, the doctors asked what 
Kristi's last words were. Everything had happened so fast 
that I hadn't thought about it until that moment. I visual­
ized the accident and remembered a split second of com­
plete peace when Kristi told me, "I love you and I'm 
sorry." The doctors told me it wasn't possible because 
she was unconscious in 30 seconds and dead in three 
minutes and she was so disoriented she wouldn't have 
been able to talk in those 30 seconds. Even though it was 
painful to hear, that has been my driving force to this day 
because I know it was her spirit that told me. All it did 
was make me feel stronger about knowing where she is. 
I know she is an angel and is with me all of the time. It's 
comforting when you have lost someone physically, to 
know theyare still with you spiritually. I know I can't feel 
or touch her, but I feel her presence when l talk or pray 
to her. It's special in so many ways because you know 
she's gone but not really. 
Kristi and I were a part of each other's lives for eight 
wonderful years, and her love for God and life taught me 
so much. She touched so many of our lives, and every life 
she touched she made better. I am who I am today 
because of her. · 
Even in dflath, Kri_sti makes her love for us all present. 
Ironically, tho most powerful supportive words I have 
rnccivcd to deal with this incident are from Kristi. When 
we left for Spring Break, Kristi had sent a card to her 
cousin a couple ol' days bPfore for some moral support. 
Ironically, I.he message she wrote is what so many of us 
have used to keep us going. "Sometimes whfln we pray ­
we pray for bad times to go quickly and good times to last 
longer; but it is when we pray for the Lord's grace that he 
rarriPs us pPacefnHy through all times." 
Sara Williams 
Senior, Saim Mary's farwil@gre.net Augusr 23, 2000 
GUEST COLUMN 
Valuing integrity and character among politicians 
OXFORD, Miss. 

The crew of Kursk, a Russian submarine, which sank to the Door of the Barents Sea, is dead. Confirmation of the deaths of 118 men serving aboard the vessel came Monday due to the com­plete flooding of the internal chambers. How long did it take for this submarine to flood? Were thPre any sur­
Steve Martini 

vivors past the initial explo­sions'? Those questions remain to be answered. 
Daily

As students spent the previ­
Mississippian

ous week scurrying for text­books and searching for lec­ture halls, l18 sailors sank to their deaths off the shores of Norway. The world scarcely batte-d an eyelash. Political candidates forged on in their pursuit of the throne within the Oval Ofnce. President Clinton continued with his pursuit of the national spotlight while campaigning for his wife in her bid to represent New York in the 
U.S. Senate. Russia's own presiden·t, Vladimir Putin, refused to cut short his holiday on the Black Sea coast to address the national tragedy. 
Friends and family members of the crew were outraged at Putin's light dis­missal of the situa­tion concerning his own countrymen. In true political fashion, Putin responded io allegations of his own negligence by saying, "! am absolutelv con­vinced that today we should not be searching for who is to blame." I have not heard such empty, self-centered political jargon since Bill Clinton struggled with a proper definition of "it" while on the witness stand only a few years ago. 
Those men at the bottom of the ship's mainframe. In fact, one naval officer, Chad Miltenberger, stationed in South Carolina told me, "I've heard a few things from my instructors. The second explosion, which went off shortly after the first one did, measured a 3. 7 on the Hichter scale. If a torpedo went off in the front-most, lower sec­tion of the sub (the location of the torpedo room) there would be no one left alive inside." Based on that professional opinion, reports of crew members banging for help from within would appear to be bold-faced lies. 
Further evidence of lies surfaced when the Russian government later denied the possibility of a collision with another sea-vessel, after they had earlier claimP-d to have discovered debris from the other object. 
So why have Russian government officials deemed it necessary to lie t.o the public and drag out the gruesome deaths of 118 military service­men for more than a week if it seemed to be appar­ent all died upon the initial impact? That is some­thing I have yet to understand. 
President Putin responded to U.S. aid by curtly requesting we follow guidelines established by NATO for providing 
assistance. The political red tape that goes along with such offers made the U.S. virtually useless in the rescue operations, although U.S. submarines were the closest to the scene at the time of the 
accident. Putin effectively protected whatever secrets the military pos­sessed aboard Kursk. 
However, I doubt many naval operations in any part of the world will be rushing to dis­cover how to sink a mili­
tary submarine that has only been on the water for less than four months. One Russian woman, Natash Furs, said, "Look at the history of our country: it is always better for someone to ..ffdie than a secret to get out." ' ~ 111,:'adly, I think she is correct. The ~alue that Russian political officials ~~;.: "put on human life is much less than the 

Barents Sea may have died due to .....__ __(If~-importance of Hussian military secrets to 
negligence on the part of the Russian govern­ment reaching as high as the President himself. Kursk was disabled on Saturday, Aug. 12. Russian officials declined offers of assistance from other countries for another five days following the inci­dent. 
Military officials released statements to Russian news media stating the submarine had collided with another object of some sort, although they would not elaborate. Furthermore, officials report­ed banging from within the sub's hull in the famil­iar beat of the S.0.S., a telegraphic system indicat­ing a need for immediate assistance in times of peril. 
However, U.S. submarines in the area reported no such enr,ounters of hanging from within the them. Bring this issue closer to home, readers, I beg you. This is an election year and we have two candidates racing for the top spot in Washington 
D.C. Listen to the arguments, read the papers and watch the news. Decide which candidate would demand assistance from another nation when American lives are on the line. It would appear moral integrity and character is much more impor­tant than believed. 
This column first appeared in the University of Mississippi paper, the Daily Mississippian, on August 22, 2000 and is reprinted here courtesy of U-W!RE. 
The views expressed here are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Interested in editing? Ca(( li(a at 1·5-JO-J or e-~ai( her at oI, server.viewt, oint.1 € nrJ.ed u 
f 


I • 
M 
E 
page 12 Thursday, August 24, 2000 
~=====-==============-....::.:--=---....::.::--=-=---=-=----:=----===============================-============-================================-======= 
Beware the 

nwr movi<'. Su111nwr 2000 rnlnasns W(']'(' hard-pr1'ss1•d f'SI, 111ns1 1•:qwnsi\'I' pi1•cps of' lilmir garhag,• of tlw to duplicalP its shPPr PlllPrlainnwnt valuP. _\'P/1 r. :\udil'llf"t'S litl'r.i lly 11od; lo llwir lorn! n111gaplt1x1•s in r,•rord 1111111lwrs to s11 P such artislil' triumphs 
E\'f'l"r su111111f'r. llnlly\\'ood n•h•as1•s tlw biggPst. loud­
as Gone in 60 Seconds "Balllli!II .~ flobin." "Cod1.illc1" ,md -Ill' i·mwsl' -llw 1111w i11f'a111011s "\\'ild Wild \\'Pst." Lwry 11111·" in a whik. This summ<•r·s "Co1w in <,O SPt·o1Hls" was a rPmakP ol' lh1111gh. a fc,w diamonds an· l'm1nd ill 1111' rough. hir an old B moviP that was simply about st,,aling cars. 1'\Pr\' 1·11ur 01· l'ivP "l11d1•pp11d1•11cn Days," 1l11•r1•'s a 
llirPrtor Dominic St\lla dPcirlt·d to n·irntkc Lill' nwvic bul "Saving l'rivatP H~·an" or ;111 'TyPs \'\'idP Shut." Tlw wanted to sµcnd 1110n'. time with charnl'LPrs and rnla­sum1111•r of 2000 was no diff1•rp11t. Tlw major studios 
lionships.
rPIP,tSPd mon• lha11 -1-0 movi1•s lwlWPPll 1111' months of Nirolas CagP stars as l\1t•mµhis Hainns, a rn11ow1111d 
!\lay and :\ugust lllH• typirnl s11111111Pr movi<• SPason) car thit>f" who ''\wnt straight" ,tftPr his motlll'r wariwd and, as alw11ys. a11di1•11(:,•s \l'1'r<' ltard-pn•ssf'd l.o !ind him his youngPr hroth,·r was dosl' to f<illowing in his a11y1hing worth tlwir 8 bucks. l!PrP, tlwn. is Sn•np's footsteps. i\kmphis !Pl'! his l'amily lwhind, but is soon 
look al SPVPral ol' thl'sP s11111111Pr rel,·as•·s -s01111' mrnT ra!IPd hack wlwn his youngl\r brotlwr, Kip, played by wort Ii ~·our 111011,•y lha 11 otlw rs. Ciovan,ii Bibisi, ("lloilnr Boom") gds in over his IH\arl. Kip owes t.lw
Summer Box Office 
most dangProus car brok1·r in tlw
Mission: Impossible 2 
1. Mission: Impossible 2 215.3 million rity sixty vinlag<' cars in f'our days. 
I i kt' iis 111 11(, prPd1••·pssor. 2. Gladiator 180.6 million If Kip cannot dPlivnr !hf' cars, lw will pay with his lifo. M<'mphis
":-.tission: l111possihl1• 2" is an 
3. The Perfect Storm 174.1 million gds bark in tlH'. game of car heists
ill('l'f'dil>ly l'lllf'l'lai11i11g J'il111. Tilt' to saw his hrotlwr·s lift•. To do so.
plot is simpli• ..\ kil!Pr \'irlls has 4. X-Men 149.3 million 
lw must rPunitP his old gang,
bt11-n sloil'll and is lwing sold on 
5. Scarv Movie 147.6 million 
which inrludPs /\ng1dina .lolil'
tlw in1Prnation,il markPt for mil­6. Dinosaur 135.9 million ("(;irl. l11tP1-ruptPd) and HohPrl
lions. SpPl'ial .-\gPnl !•:than Ilunt's Duvall ("Tlw Codf'athcr").
IT0111 CruisP) task is to S1Pal 1111' 7. What Lies Beneath 128.1 million Although SPna's attPmpt was to
virus hark along with thP a11ti­
8. Big Momma's House 115.4 million 
dPvnlop Uw rPlationships of' tlw
sPn1111. 
TIH•r••·s a girl. too 1tht•rp's 9. The Palriot 110.2 million rliarartPrs. lw fai!Pd this ultirnalP goal. IIP PXplor<'cl tlw relationship
alwa,vs a girl!. '-;_vah IThandi•• 
10. Nutty Professor 2 105.4 million 
is a lwt\\'Pl'll J,.;ip and 1\-kmphis furtlwr
NPwlo11I world-class thic,r. 
11. Gone in 60 Seconds 100.2 million than it was in tlw original movit•
Hunt n•n11ih lwr lo lwlp !incl SPall .\m lmtsf' f l)ougray S('olll. who has 12. Me, Mvself & Irene 94.5 million but it did not go as dnPp as it n1·1·dPd lo. l)pspill' th<' brilliant
slolPll 1l11• virus. But it's not IH·r 
13. Shaft 73.8 million casting of' Bibisi and Cag.?, liUlt• is
C:af\\'0111a11-l'sq111• skills that dorn· with Pitlwr of' llwir charat·­
Hhan·s t1•a111 111•Pds. I! just so hap­
pt•11s that sill' d11mpPd .\mbrosP a \\'hil•• bark and brnkP tt'rs. Tllf' truP stars of Lhn movi,• would haVI' b<'f'll tlw lib t'Yil litt!P lw1ir1. and llunt is ordf'l't!d to 11s1• lwr to vintagn rars that Wt're thn quPsl of tlw Hairws brotlwrs, 11wlt• i11!11 AmhrnsP·s organization. bul tlwr•P wpnr-loo many to apprp1·iatn any of tlwm. Tlw 
101111 \\1H1 is surh a f'antaslil' diri•ctor tlwL. in 1•vpry onP gr<'al Slll'CPss of' this mnviP was lht' car chasP sPqllt'IH"P. all is f'orgiv1m f'or tlw thin plot. Woo truly s1·pnps that nrnv havl' lwPn tlw 111'st sinrP "Bonin" and rn111Ps out lo pla\ during tlw final hall'-l1011r, which is "llullit." 
. lilll'd will! l'SS<'llli,dly non-st.op thrills and spills-. .1\l'tPr a lab11ratnr\' sho11t-oul, llll' monwnlum shil't-i:> lo an 
Me, Myself & Irene 
ahsol11t1•!y ·inrrPdib!P mo\rnT.yc!P chasi; sPqw•m•,,: whid1 rightfully lwlongs among tlw [)('sl al'lion s1•qw•ncPs ol' 
l!v,•ry 0111' of us havP had tinws wlwn \\'1'\'P ha/to
all ti11w . .t\l'!Pr watrhing "(;Jadiator" ofTc•r action 
suppn•ss that urgn to tnll som<?onP olT. It l'Olll<'S as no Sl'Cflll'lll't's that llan•ly makP SPIISI', \\'oo's work is likP a 
surprisP that tl1t• FarrPlly brotlwrs l'Par!Pssly turn llw blast 11f l'ri·sh air. altnr Pgo in all or us into a comPclir prop. This is when "~lission: lmpossiblP 2" d1•liwrs l'V<·rything it wants 
Jim C:atTPY gops lo work. Although tlw dir<'t:tors, tlw 
lo dPliYPr: glossy styli1.1•d action Sf'Cfll('JH·1•s, 1•11lPrtaining 
1:a1TPlly brotlwrs, startPd with a good idt•a, that's about and 1•ngagi11g acting !'mm its star and. abct\'P iLII Pis!', a 
as far as lh<'y got. Tlw plot gradually dPc:li1ws into a grnal 1110\'i1•-goi11g PXIH'ril'tH:1•. "\I: 12" is a l'un Tom 
bunrh ol' PxaggNall'd S('PIH?s and clunky om•-lirwrs. Cr11isdlol111 \\'no l1•am-up, and th1•r<'forc· a 1wrf1·1·l sum­
.Jim Carr<'Y stars as C:harlin Bailt•ygatPs, a rnPmlJl'r ol' tlw llhodl' Island poli('P l'orrP. II<' is a hard working, kind, mild-W111p<'rc•d and modnl dtiZPll raising thrnn illPgitimatn sons aftPr his wif'1, ldt him on tlwir 
WPC!ding day {'or thn l)pspill' llll' f'ad that llw photograph~1 was l'ar l'rnm midgPt limo drivPr. stqwrior and tlw lilmniaking rnulcl haVI' IH•t•n drnw IH·l­Charlin has spPnt his ll'r ·by a bunch of' amat.Ptll'S with a vid1•fl ram •ra. Pn!irP lil'1• as a "lrP1w" is nippin).( at tlw lw<·ls ol' tl1<· "11rn·llv !Jro!lic•rs' pushov,•r. prPlPncl-o th" r l'i Im s. "I) 11 m Ii and 1J u 111 Ii" r" an .i' "'f' hI' r" ·., 
ing ,•vprything is Soml'lhing about Mary." If" you·rl' a .li111 Carn•:,: J'a11 anti· wonc!Prl'til and l'VPry­arl' looking f'or a quil'k laugh. "t'-11', :O.l_vs1•lf' anti ln•111·" is body rPspPcts him. a good pil'k. J\l'!l'r _vPars of' bottling up all that anger and 
Shaft

l"t'SP!l(lllPll1, hi' finally 
snaps, and out romf's IL has lwrn said that. imitation is llw gi-c•al1•sl 1"11r1n 11!'
!lank. 
!laUPry, hut so11rnti11ws things just sho11ld11'I Ill' i111ilal­

I lank is a stPrPotypii:al t•d. H1H'Pntlv, tlw l'lltl'rtainllll'll! i11d11slrv ha!-> IH•1•11
jt•rk IIP drinks w11,v too 
att1•111pting ,;, llall.f•r tl1Pir rnl1• n1od1·ls iiH·P~sa11tl\. try­mut·h, lw's got a dirty mouth 

ing !o rapitalizt' on tllC'ir popularity. Classir 1·i1,11s lik1•and mind. is d,•structiw and 

"l'swl10" and otlwr old tt'lc•vision shows likf' "l.osl ill

rarns onlv about sPx. Th,• 
Sp,i,·c-," "Tilt' llrady Bunl'h." and P\'1'11 l'arl11011s lik"only thing ·1w has in rnmmon 

"Tl](• Flintsto11Ps" and "lnspc•1·tor r;,1clgt•I." lr,tv1• r1111tin­

with ChurliP is a crush on 
t1Pd to appPar and IPaVP Lill• vi1•\\·,•r \\'ilh an 1·111ply

lrP111• Wal.Prs (HPlll't' st•ns1· that somt• of' llll'ir l'avorill' 11111vi1·s and shows
/.nllwl'gl'r from "J,.rr.v 
hitvP lwPn l'Xploil.<•d and, ill sorn1· rnsl's, n1i1ll'rl.

'vlaguirn,'). l>irPrtor .John Si11gl1'1011's Ill'\\' v,•rsion 111' 1111• ·70.., l'las­
.lim CarrPV shinl's 
sil' hlaxploilal.ion l'il111 "Sha!'!'' is 1111tlrin).( 111'\\. It is a

thrn11gh 0111·1• ;,gain with n•liasli ol' tl11• "IJlal'k private• tlil'k \\'ho's a -.1•x 111111·lti111•
his amazing ading ability 
!'or all tlw d1i1·ks" sd-up. b11I unlik1• 11llwr n•r1•11l i111ila­

and t.il,·nlPd rarial and 
1i1111s. Singll'ton's 11pda!Pd "Shaf'!" adwilly works.

body 1•xprPssio11s that IH'Vf'r 1-'irstl,v. Sa1111tf'I I.. .larksnn is lilt' 1wrl'f'1'I a1·1or l1t pl,1_\
l'ail lo 111,1kf' you laugh. lll'ing ,l1tltn Shafi. llis pnrl'ormant·I' is prol>ably lwltl'I' titan
his l'irsl "ll"-rntt•d movil', "l\lt•. liic-liard l{ou11dtn•1•'s. V\ho portrnyl'd Shafi i11 lhl'
!\lysclf'. and lri·,w·· dol's display somt' orginal. S1:rn11dly, Si11glnl.011's "<J()s vnsio11 t1ll11ws Shaf'l
d1•111(•11tncl. cla1·i11g ll<'W iclPas sul'h as 
l.o shoot mon• guys, swnar morl' a 11d IH' l'Vl'll 1nor" bad

brnast rn,•ding alt.Prnativns and a cow I.ha! 
than lw was i11 tlw '70s. J\lso, thP '1J0s allow "Sllal't" Inwill not diP. 


page 13 

-:-T~l;1t~11~·s;d~a}~',=:::A~t~1g~•t==1s=t~2==4==,=2=0=0=0==============--=-=-=-=-=-==-===============-=-___-------:::======-=:::-=======================-=============-========= 

i'"l>,11H·1· \\ ilh \fr"). Christian llal1· l".\11wrirn11 l's_1Tho"). Toni <:olli•tt1• !..Tlw Si\th SP11S<•") and a 1·,11111•11 !iv 1'11Dlilall's i11romprab!P l.,11Hc•nr;. Ta\'lor. 
Soll](' niti1-'s pa!lll!'d "Sltatr· as unh1•li1•1 ahIP a11d larking in plot­dP\1'lDp11wnl. \\hat llws,· rrilirs an· l!lissi11g 11i1h till' II!'\\' 1·1•rsio11 is tlrnt ii is a11 alll'lllIJL tD simulat,• 1111· l_lP<' ol' plot that '?Os !Jlax­ploit11tio11 lil111s had. Charart,•rs lik1• .lohn Sha!'! and ))ol<-mit,• 

...:
11·l'rl' about as rlos1• ID rartoons as 1l11•\ ro11ld !JI• 11 ithout 11·<'ari11g polk;1-·rl11lll'd 01f'l'alls and ha1i11g Ii Iu,, s~in I' h <' Ill 1, 1· i"s r I' i'I' r t 11 s1•rious topil's Ii.I'. r;wial oppn•s­-;i1111 and po1NI~ ). hut th,• pl111s tl11·111s1•lv1•s r1•1·olvc' aro11nd a stn•1·(11 is1• SupPr111;111. who also happ1•11s to h1· an innc•dibly Slllllll(h gu1. Singil'lllll sta_\'S lrLH' Ill !Ile· g1•11rc• or 1111• original. 11Iiid1 111ak1·s !Ii<· lwJ,,s in 1lw plot Sll<T1·ssl'ul att<·mpts at staying 1ru1• to till' original. That's \\'hat s,•parall'S 1h1· updat,•cl "Shart" l'ro111 Ilw otlwr n•va111 ps of' popu­
__J 
Ill' a n·,il a1·1fo11 nw,·il'. diock-l'ull or rar r.hascs. guns and im1111•11sPly lwtlPr s1wrial PIT<'rls than tlw low bud­gPl. '70s lilrn had. 'l'lw popularily ol' tltl' original also allo11s J'or a b<'tll•r supporting rnst 1'1·111uri11g \'a1wssa \\'illiams 
Jar classics: it takPs t.lw origi,rnl idea and improves upon it, instPad ol' ruining ii. 
The Perfect Storm 
TIH' most brilliant f'ilmmaking occurs wh<in a direc­tor ran t.ako what most pPoplo considPr mundann and low-class and make poetry out of it. This is !\Xactly what Wolfgang l',\tPrs,•n clo!'S with "Tho Pi,rfoct Swrm." 
Tlw lilm is an adaptation of' s,:bastian Jung1:r's book and is tlw story of' tlrn i\ndrna Gail, a c;loucnster, Mass. fishing boat. Although tlw film fornses on on,~ boat. it is about a lifostyln foreign to people, living out­sicli\ of' f'ishing towns. To tlwso f'ishcrmcn, fishing is murh mor<' than a job -it is a way of life. 
Cnorgi' Cloonny plays Hilly Tynn, captain of' tho ;\ndrPa Gail. IIP is 01w of tlw grPatnst fishing boat cap­tains CloucPst11r has nvf1r sPcn. Wlrnn pnoplc bngin to CJlH~stion his ability as a rnptain. Tyiw loads his crew up !'or on<· mor<' trip. Ile takrn; his 1-rnw out farther than most of' tlwm havn !'Vnr gono and promisns that tlwy arP going to bring honH' massivP amounts ol' fish. \,\!hat thcv don'L rPa]iz1' is that whilP Limy an' catching all this fi~h. thrnn hugP storms am colliding tog<:thor 111 form 01w of tlw ran•st wPa.tlwr phenomenas 1:ver­t!H• 1wrf'nf·t storm. 
Tlw most amazing scP1rns in tlw rnoviP takn plar.n in tlw midst of tlw storm. This monster is brought lo Ii!'<: by spPctarular spncial Pf'f'Pcts and plays on<' of the gn•al('Sl villains to PVl'I' hit tlw big scrnnn. 

Woll'Mang l'1'tPrsPn was 1wrf'Prl in his casting of tlw 1TPW ol' tlw ;\ndrPa (;nil. This is shown in how nach arlor is abl1• to l.ltkl' an ordinarv man and 11iakP him into a lwro. Tlwy arn abln lo tak<~ a job that many peo­plP look down upon and makP it in!O a nob!n profes­sion. 
What Lies Beneath 
It has bPPll quil<' a whilP silH'P an adult thrill<'r has ('Olll(' along and n)a!ly madP an audi(•ncP scrPam out !1Jucl and lw f'rightPtwcl. "\\hat 1.ic's i3l'l1f'ath" did just that J'or its aucliPnr<•. 
Midwll,• l'l'i•iffnr stars as Clain• SpPncPr, Uw wife of' a rnlll'gP prnf'Pssor, play<'cl by Ilarrison Ford. Clain' and lwr husband, ~orman. hav<' just mrJ\NI into a 1ww house· that tlS<'d to lw his l'atlwr·s. They arl' trying Lo s<'ltl(• in wlwn Clain• lwgins to s,•,• and !war things 11rou11d tlw lrnusP. 
DirPctor Holwrl ZPnH•rkis do,•s a Lnyout by supn-long tongues would sucreNI grc·at job K<'<'ping tl11· audiPl1C(' wlwrc• otlwr 2000 sumnwr nrnvi1is gu,·ssing. Tlwr<' ar1• a numlwr of' Matt Nania havn failed'! "X-Men," a C'Omir book 
cluns giv<'ll, but tlw audiPncn just 
Amanda Greco movi1' for IH'aV!)n 's sakP, i!:i smart<'r, d1wsn'l know wh111 tlwv an' cluPs to 
bdtnr arl!'cl, lwltPr sniptPd and and if tlwy PVPn matt;,r to \\hat is 
bntter rraf'tnd than any otlwr movi<' going on. :!'his maki-s tlw rilm any­Rc7.1icws co/ltribu ted by this summN. Surn, ·with "Shaft'' thing but prl'dictablP. l'f'Pilfrr do,•s 
"M:12" and "Gorn' in (i() Spconcls" to
Beth Goodhue

a grnat job playing a nH•ntally frail 
compote with, that's nol saying 

\\·oman, no! su,·l• ii' slw is going Joe Larson murh. Still. !'or a good solid pico~ of crazy or not. It is lwr pPrf'ormancc 
m1tertainm<'nl. "X-1\fon" is above
Casey McCluskey 

that mak!'S this tilm a SU('l'PSS. Ford pnr. For a comic· buok movie, "X­is okay as a drivnn s1·i<'ll('I' prof',•s-Matt Nania 1\fon" rules. 
sor, but hn has been bettnr. · 
Tim one prohlPrn wi1h t!rn film is that tlrn Pnd is drawn out considnrably. Znmerkis does a good job kPeping t.hn audi1rnce scrnaming the wholP tim<\ but tlw film bm:omns a bit too long wlwn it knnps going on and on and tlw right pnoplP just don't din. 
X-Men 
It's understandabln that anticipation was at a f'nvnr pitch f'or "X-i\len " Aftnr all. it's bas,~d on tlH' highnst­S<\lling comic book ser.ies of all time. For the film, ('har­acters have bnen excis1\cl and story-li1rns have b!!nn strcamli1wd -a necessary movie evil. wlrnthcr one is aclaµting a book, a comic book or even a TV snries. What's important, though, is conjuring on celluloid the spirit of' thn source, its <issnncn. i\11d in this resp!)Ct fans should be pleased with thn serious approach <lirnctor Bryan Singer brought to tlw malPrial. 
In the "not too distant future," humanity is faced with an flScalating crisis of gP11PtiC'. mutation. U.S. Sonat.or Knlly (Bruce Davison) is pushing J'or a law that w i11 ma kn m utan t icl!) n ti['i cati o 11 an cl r Pgis trat ion mandatory, calling it a public safety issu<'. 
Unfortunately, som<• of KPlly's fear-mongPring rlwtoric has mnriL as thern is a growing anti-human mm·nmnnt among mutants that is lwing spearlwadrcl by Magiwto (Ian MrKnllPn), a powrrful mutant who !111s tlw ability to gcnnralP mag,wtic fiPlcls and control nwtallic objnrts. 
llow,w(\r, Magrn1to's aspirations arP counternrl by his old friPnd l'rofossor CharlPs Xavier (Patrick StPwarll. a pownrful telepath who bnlievns that pParnful co-nxis­l<'IH'!\ lwtwn1'n humans and mutants is possibJ,,. In addition to running a school for "gif't<-cl chilclrnn," Xavinr has assembled a tnam of' mutants to oppose Magneto's goals: the optic-blast shooting Cyrlops (.lanws i\larsclPn); the tclekin!·\tic scitrnlist !Jal)(' Jean Grev (Famkc .lanss!~n); m0tal-dawnd Wolverine; and St01~m (IIalIP BPrry). who can rontrol tlrn WPathrr. 
Tlw plot dorsn't earn to rPach a high IPwl of intensi­ty, but it serves its purpos<' by making this movi<' a wor­thy intrndurtion iuto what hopefully will }J('conrn a suc­cnssf'lll franchise. If you'rp a long-standing f'an of the comir book. "X-~fon" will not disappoint. EvPn if you know nothing or only have a passing curiosity to tlw whoIP X-MPn plwnonwnon. the film ·s tight. cl!'vcr srript and <'xcit.ing visuals will k<'PP you morP than inlNPSl<'d. 
Who would've lhought that a moviP about superpow­
er Pd mutants with rntractable 
udamantium claws, n•d \'isors and 

I 
I 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, August 24, 2000 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Daubach leads Red Sox past impressive Angels 
Vaughn at first with a single off Ledee. Pedro Valdes hit a John Parrish {2-2), who beat in 4 1-3 innings. I In was activat­
Associated Press 

Rhea! Cormier, Anderson sin­grounder back to the box that Chicago six days ago at Camden ed from the disabled list gled off' !Heh Garces. and Rivera knocked down and made Yards despite walking eight. Wednesday wlrnrn he'd bc,rn
B()SH)N 

Vaughn took third wlrnn right the play at first. still couldn 'L !'ind the plutn since Aug 1. with an inflamed
Brian Dauharh singled in one 

liclder Trot Nixon had trouble The Yankees kept up their WndMsday night. right shoulder. 
run and scored two as Boston 

picking up the ball for an error. dominance of the Rangers, win­lie walkf1d live and committed 
ovcrramc a ]-hour, 1-rninutc 

Anderson stole second and Troy ning for the 41st time i.n 54 a throwing error, giving up five
rnin dday and a strong pRrfor­Indians 7 Athletics 5
(;Jaus walked to load tht> bases. games since losing Game 1 of runs in 1 2-] innings. lfo 
m an cc bv Anaheim startnr 

Then Garces retirnd Kennedy the 1996 divisional series. New walked Ray Durham and Tony
Hamon Ortiz to beat the AngPls David Segui's go-ahead HBI 
on a soft popup to second base­York. which swept the Rangers Graffanino to start the first and
3-1. double in th11 sixth inning sent 
mn II Mike Lansing on the out­out of the playoffs the past two after a doublo steal, Ordonez hit
Ortiz (4-4) allowed five hits in Cleveland to i(s fifth straight
field grass. years. is 32-9 against Texas at a Lwo-run double and Carlos
7 1-3 innings but was hurt by a win, a victory ov1ir Oakland that
Yankee Stadium since 1994. Lee followed with an HBI singhi
wild pitch and an error by nm­included .morn bad blood
The Hangers likely won't be to make it 3-0. 
tcr lif'lder Garrntt Anderson. In Yankees 10 Rangers 9 between the tnams.
making a return trip in tho Paul Konkerko singled in tlrn
his previous win. Ortiz beat Jim Thome homered as 
postseason. Their 68th loss in second and made it to third
Boston and Pedro Martinnz with Jnrgo Posada went 3-fur-4 Cleveland won for thn 14th time
115 games already surpasses when Parrish picked up Chris 
a 2-1, two-hit complete gamn with a homer and live HHls and in 'I CJ games to opl\11 a one­
last vear's total bv one. Texas Singleton's bunt and threw it
Aug. 8. Tinn Martinez hit a game-win­game lead over Boston in the
allowed 10 or more runs for the into center field. Charles
On Wednesday. he far:ed ning HBI single in the ninth AL wild-card race.
22nd time this season, breaking Johnson walked to load the
another strong Bed Sox pitchnr. inning Lo give New York a victo­The A's, who have lost live of
the franchise record set in bases and after Ray Durham hit
Tomo Ohka (3-2) allowP.d one ry over Texas. six and 12 of l 7, are 1 1/2 back.
1998. into a double play, Parrish
hit in 5 1-3 innings as he won New York won despite strand­for the second night in a row
The Yankees· bullpen cost walked Graffanino to reload the
his third straight start. But the ing 14 runners in the first eight the teams exchanged brushback
Clemens his seventh straight bases.
bullpfln nnarly squandnrnd tlH~ innings. blowing a 7 -4 lead and pitches and trash talk.
win for the second time in two frank Thomas hit an RHI sin­
lead, loading the basns with Lwo making two errors in a five-run The starting pitchers for both 
starts. lie left last Friday's game gle and then Ordonez drew a 
outs in the eighth before Adam eighth. teams were warned after hcad­
against Anaheim with an 8-3 bases-loaded walk to finish
Kt>nnPdy popped out. Posada's two-run homer in high pitches emptied the
lead in the ninth. but the Angels Parrish and make it 5-0. 
Dernk Lowr. got tho last throe the eighth tied it for the dugouts and bullpens for some
tied it on Mo Vaughn's three• Chris Richard hit his fifth
outs for his 29th save in 34 Yankees, who then won it au heated finger-pointing and ani­
run homer off Rivera. homer for Baltimore's first run
chances. inning later. mated conversation.
Rogers gave up six runs, 11 in the fourth. But Chicago
The llPd Sox went ahead 1-0 Luis Polonia led off with a sin­Segui and Travis Fryman
hits and four walks in five-plus loaded the bases again in the
in the first thanks to Anderson's gle against Tim Crabtree (2-7) each hit HBI doubles in the sixth
innings. fourth off Jason Johnson and 
error. With two outs and and went to second on Jose after Cleveland starter Bartolo 
got two gift runs when third

Daubach on first on a fielder's Vizcaino's single. Jose Canseco Colon was forced to leave tlrn
baseman Jeff Conine collid.ed

choice, Carl Everett singled up hit into a fielder's choice, beat­White Sox 8 Orioles 4 game with tendinitis in his left
with Richard and dropped

tlrn middlP. Anderson, appear­ing out a double play when Luis knee. lie is day-to-day.
Carlos Lee's two-out popup

ing tentativt! as he ran through Alicea's throw pulled Frank Magglio Ordonez had three Segui, sent sprawling earlier 
near the mound.

the soakl'd outfield, Int the ball Catalanotto off the hag at first. RBIs and Chicago made the by an inside pitch from Tim
Jerry Hairston and Brady

get undiir his glove. allowing Left-hander Mike Venafro most of nine walks and two lludson {13-6). gol reveng1\
Anderson hit back-to-back solo

Daubach to scurP. came on and Martinez ground­Baltimore errors to beat the against the right-hander in the
shots and Melvin Mora singlr.d

Boston made it 3-0 in the nd a single just inside the first­Orioles and stay seven games sixth with his double~ that put
to finish I.owe in the fifth.

third when Jos.-Offerman start­base bag. The Yankees poured ahead of Cleveland in the AL the Indians up 6-5 and rhased
Lorenzo Barcelo (1-1) was

ed the rally by walking and lak­out of the dugout in jubilation Central. lludson. who allowed seven
Lagged for a solo homer by

ing second on a wild pitch. lie and the crowd that booed its Chicago reliever Scan Lowe runs and eight hits in 5 1-3
Conine in the sixth to make it 7 ­

scorPd on a single by Daubach. team in the eighth inning cele­came off the disabled list and innings.
4, but Thomas hit an HBI dou­

who took third on Evcrntt's sin­brated. made his first start of the sea­Fryman followed with a run­
ble off the center field fence in

gle and came in on Troy · Mariano RivPra (7-3) escaped son, lasting just 4 1-3 innings scoring double off' Doug Jones.
the bottom of the inning.

O'Lmtry's single. a shaky ninth for lhe win. With and giving up three of Arter scoring twice off Paul
Lowe, making his first start

The Angels scored in the runners on rirst and second, Baltimore's four solo homers. Shuey (4-1) to tic it in the sixth.
since May 31. 1998 when he

fourth wlurn former Boston second baseman Vizcaino start­Rut the Orioles' power the A's got a orrn-out double 
was with the Cardinals and just

slugger Mo Vaughn led off with ed a neat double play, going to couldn't overcome their wild from Adam Piatt in the seventh
the sixth of his major lr.agur.

his 31st homer of the season. his knees Lo stop Gabe Kapler's pitching and sloppy fielding as before Hicardo Hincon, activat­
career in 116 appearances,

Their final threat came in the grounder up tho middle. the White Sox scored four ed from the DL earlier in tho 
gave up live hits and three runs

eighth. With two outs and After an intentional walk to unearned runs. day, replaced Shuey. 
Th~ Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oH.ce, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is '3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves che right to edic all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

NEED Three tickets to Texas A&M  ND Prof and wife seek babysitter in  SOUTH BEND LODGING  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  
..  TICKETS BUSINESS MAN NEEDS Nebraska tickets or season GA only. 277-1659 FOR SALE· ST AN FORD, AIR FORCE, BOSTON.Cheap. 654-0168  for family. Call John, 4-2795 Football tickets: I want to purchase 4 tickets to the Stanford game on October 7th The seats must be in the area of the Notre Dame band. Call Anthony Russo, 1-908-688-3232  our home T-TH 9 AM-1 PM (later if possible}. 3 great kids, aged 7 mos to 5 yrs. Experience/references required. Please call 631-3654 or email meissner. 1@nd.edu EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­MENT CENTER PAID & VOLUN· TEER OPPORTUNITIES  In-home B&B lodging for football games & ND-SMC events. Close to campus. Breakfast included. Call 219-243-2628 or garyb@mvillage.com 3 bdrm apt home at 616 E. Howard St Available immediately. Walking dis­tance to campus, accessible lo pub-lie transportation. $500 ea. Sec. Dep. Of $250 ea.  AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentafs.homepage.com/ email: mmmri,ntals@aol.~om 232-2595 FOR SALE 99 VW Beetle GLS, dk. Blue, 5-spd manual trans, 6 CD changer. air,  PERSONAL I need your help! I'm a '92 ND grad and lost my year­book in a flood. If you know anyone who has a '92 yearbook and would not mind parting with ii, please call me at 830-772-5956 or email at ~  
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS 289-92B0  NEED 2 NEBRASKA TICKETS WILL PAY $100 FOR EACH CALL MATT AT 4-3319  Earn money and build resume experience while interacting with delightful young children. The Early Childhood Development Centers at  Call 289-9484. N.D. Rental Lakefront home on Magician lake  alloy 16' wheels, 12,800 miles, exc. Cond. $16,300.219-258-4454 Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  eli,@mindspring.com Thank you, Cristina Ortiz  
SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570 . VICTORY TKTS  BUYING/SELLING ND FOOTBALL TICKETS (219) 289·8048 FOR SALES Nebraska Tix(219) 232-5485  Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame are cur­rently accepting applications from college students for part lime employmanl positions. The hours vary, including MWF 8-9 a.m. and  available weekly, or for wknds. 3 bdrms, 1 1/2 baths, deck, screened in porch.This home is nicely fur­nished and overlooks a beautiful lake and is close to Indian Lake Golf Course.  with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, stifl in plastic. $235. 235-B62-2082 River Isle exc, Condo on the river in Mishawaka. Beautiful view of the  To Laura, the "Vixen of Vicksburg": You and Ashley were "T-Rific" fun in Chicago! E-mail me sometime russ@updraft.com  
...  BUY'SELL'TRADE ND FOOTBALL 232-0964 www.victoryt1ckets.com Need two tix lo NO vs. W. Virginia, Saturday, Oct 21  Looking to trade Grad student ticket book for Senior tickets to sit by friends.Will pay$$ Call 287-2433 I need tickets to the Purdue game. Will pay top $.Call Chris at 4-3094  MWF 11 a.m.-1 :30 p.m. If you are interested in applying, please con­tact Kari Alford, Program Director at ECDC-SMC, at 284-4693 or Thayer Kramer, Program Director at ECDC-ND, tor more information and an application  Also in the area are many apple orchards ready for picking. This home will sleep 6 $350 weekends. $850 weekly. 630-964-6620  river from living room. dining room, kitchen and bdrm. Also has swim­ming pool, pier, sauna, exercise room and clubhouse. Call Frank 299-1909 Jack 257-1141 /674-6593  c·arrie ­see, I told you I'd put you in today's paper. I hope you all had tun at Senior Bar. It's 1 :30, and I'm here I'm so pretty! I'm so pretty!  
Please call 813-969-3339.  The Early Childhood Development  616-424-3246  
BUY/SELL NO TICKETS  WANTED  Cenlers are also looking for volun­teers who enjoy young children. If  In-Home B&B  Gold 3-cushion sofa, $200; oval coffee table, glass top, $75; cur- Andy, I know I still owe you dinner... I get paid soon, sorry.  
273-3911 ALWAYS BUYING NEBRASKA 271-9330 TICKET MART  ND Prol and wife seek babysitter in our home T-TH 9 AM-1 PM (later if possible). 3 great kids, aged 7 mos to 5 yrs. Experience/references required. Please call 631-3654 or email meissner.1@nd.edu  you would be interested in spending two hours a week reading children's books, building with blocks, and singing songs with children, please contact ECDC-ND at 631-3344 or ECDC-SMC at 284-4693  FB wknds-sleep up to 8 Some w/t1x, 2mi N of ND 219-2TT-4759 Two Bedroom apartments for lease 2000-2001 year. Also leasing apart­ tain/drapery rods, $35 for all; 3 round lamp tables, $40 ea; wing chair. $75; TV table, $20. Can be seen at 17675 Cobblestone Ct. Call 277-1639. TV, VCR and MICROWAVE  Wedsdays without 90210 are like friends without caring .. Speaking of which, whats up L· Monster  
.r  BUY/SELL/TRADE ALL GAMES 271·9330 NO FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M.-232·2378 P M ·288·2726 ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M ·232·2378 P.M ·288-2726  Officials needed for Baseball, Slow and Fast Pitch Softball, and Flag Football. This is a great opportunity to earn good money. Contact the RecSports office (Peter ShOop or Jett Walker) @ 631-6100, or stop by the office in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center today. You can also e-mail us at rec­sport@nd.edu.  FOR RENT CONDO FOR RENT2 BR & 2 BATH, W/D, DISHW, MICRW, FIREP, CLUBHOUSE, SWIMMING POOL, WALK TO CAMPUS: GRAD OR FACULTY ONLY 273-6378 OR 219-482-2714  ments/ houses for 2001-2002 year_ Dave 291-2209. Furnished 1 bdrm apt in good resi· dent1al area. 10 min drive from ND. Walk-in closet, storage area, park­ing space $400/mo. $250 deposit. Postgrad student or faculty only. No smoking, no alcohol. No party. Call 277-0189  All excellent condition (VCR brand new), must sell this week. Call Peter, 251-0815, or email adamson.4@nd.edu Condo-townhouse 2 bdrms, 1 1/2 bath w/fireplace. All updated. Must see Mid $70s. Call 219-291-8601.  Erin, stop by ... its in print, you have three days to come visit or I will come after you. Young Americans 1s the greatest show on earth. The true survivers are Dylan, Kelly, Donna, David, Steve, and NaL Kel, you're the greatest  

-
Thursday, August 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Brown loses bid for perfect game on Bergeron single 
index finger as he tried to bunt sion he received in the after­lead: Jpff Bagwell dropped a blown save in 25 chances. 
Associated Press 
against Mike Thurman (3-4). math of the Dodgers' brawl throw to first by shortstop Tim Chris Brock (7-6) retired the 
I.OS ANGELES 

Knvin Brown lost his bid for a p1ir/'nct ganw wlrnn MontrHcd's l'PlPr BPrgPron singlPd h~ading off Lhc S(\VPnth inning, and the Los /\ngfil1>s am beat lhe Ex1ms 5-1. 
Winning for the first timP. in six starts sinn, .luly 24 at Colorado, Brown (11-5) wound up allowing f'our hits in sPv1m­pl us innings. lit> slrurk out !'our, walked none and hit a batt1·r. 
HPtiring his first 18 balt<'rs, Brown allowt>d only lwo balls out of'11w infiPld. 
Bngernn·s singfo was a liner to tlw ldt ol' third basnman \drian BPllrP, who IungPd and lippncl th<' ball with his glove. with tlw ball trickling into loft fiPld. . 
\Vlwn "hit" was /'laslwd on tlw srorPboard. many in tlw Dodgn Stadium crowd of :1 I . :13 7 bnoPd . Bu l it clPa rly was a hit. and lwcanw a moot point wlwn Josi' Vidro and I.cf' SIPVPllS hit 1·onsPc11tiv(! dn11hlP-s lat1'r in tlw inning aftPr '.'v1ilton Brnrll<•y linr·d into a doubl1\ pla~·­
B rovv n almost didn't last lwvond tlw fifth inning this timP -· but not lwnrnsr of' his pitl'h­ing. 
Brovvn. who sprnt more than t,vo wPPks on tlw disabled list i n /\ p I' i l a n(' r h (' hr() k p tlH' pinki,· on his right hand trying to bunt. was struck on tlrn right 
Til'ESVAYS S/29~10/10 
6:'+5 -8pVVli 
$25 
VNESVAYS 8/30-10/11 12:10-12:50 $20 
VNfSVAYS 8/30-10/11 5:30-6:25 ()'R 6:LJ.5-7:'+0 
Thurman's first pitr,h in the lifth was up at the letters, and the pitch struck Brown's hand as he squared. 
While Dodgers trainer Stan Johnston spent a few anxious moments checking out Brown, \fontrnal manager Felipe Alou argued with umpirn Tim McClelland that it should have been ruled a foul strike. The d{idsion stood after McClelland conferred with first"base ump Scott lfiggins. 
Brown was safe at second on a thrnwing error by Thurman. who grabbed Tom Goodwin's comPbacker and made a lov. throw that shortst.op Orlando Cabnira rouldn"t handle. Brown took third as Mark Grudzielanek flir>d 0111 and scorPd on Shawn Creen's sin­gl<'. 
Eric Karros followed with a sacrifice Ily that made it 5-0. 
Thurman matched Brown for tlw first 3 1-3 innings, rf'tiring 10 consoc utiv1• battNs before Gru<lzit•la1wk doublr)d. 
Sliawn Green walk1~d and Todd llundley singled with two outs to score GrudziPlanek. l)pvon WhitP walked and Beltre followPd with a two-run single. 
Thurman gave up live runs ­thrPe earned -and four hits in fiw innings. 
Left fieldPr Gary Slwffield, who leads the Dodgers in bat­ting avPrage, hom1~ runs, RBIs and on-base porrentage, began sPrving the fivP-game suspAn­
$25 ie=3/~ $28 
Registration begins Friday, August 25, 7:30am in the RSRC. Call 1-6100 with questions. 
.  ~,.,·.­-:  "',,,,..>' _,'  
··"1 ,_..,  ·  . · '  ,  '  -~,-tn•W q .  ' :,,:  
Stuffed Pizza • Regular Pizza • Pasta  
Sandwiches • SaJads  

"We Use Horne Made lngrtditnts For 17ial Gtnuint Italian Flavor" 
Dinner• Monday Thni Tlrursday 
SpmtolOpm 

Dinner• Friday and Satrcrday 
5pm to 11pm 

for groups larger than l0, phone in reservation for fnsrcr seming 
100 Center • Mishawaka 
254-9177 
YOGA  nrESVAYS 8/29-10/10 12:10°12:50  
$20  
TTlU'RSVAYS  
1/27-3/9  
6:LJ.5 -8pVVli ­ 
$25  
TAI CtlI  

Tetv Chvfoy 'Ret:L¥elW MONDAYS 
9/11-10/30 1:15-2:15 
with Wrigley Field fans on May 16. 
The Dodgers' weekend series at Chicago will include a dou­bleheader on Friday, so Sht1ffiAld -who droppAd his appeal -will be eligible to play 011 Sunday and continue his race with Sammy Sosa !'or the major league home run lead. 
Cubs 15 Houston 5 
Buben Quevedo took a rio-hit bid into the sixth inning beforn .Julio Lugo's three-run homer, and Chicago rou1Prl Houston. 
Quevodo (2-5). making his eighth major league start, wound up allowing five runs ­three mtrned -and four hits in eight innings The 21-year-old right-hander struck out five and walked four. 
·wade \1ifair (2-5) was pound­ed for 1 2 runs, tying the Astros rPcord set hy Jose Lima against the Cubs on April 26. \Hiler lastod 4 2-:~ ini1iugs, allowing 12 hits and eight eanwd runs. 
.Joe Girardi had four hits, Garv Matthows Jr. had three and ·Mark Grace hit a three-run double as Chicago stopped a season-high. seven-game losing streak. 
Rondell White had two hits and drove in a run, making him 8-for-14 with five RBIs in the series. 
Sammy Sosa put the Cubs ahead with an RB[ single in the first. then robbed Lugo of a home run in the bottom half with a leaping catch against thP right-field wall. 
llouston, which tifid its sea­son high by making four errors. helped Chicago with a pair or errors as the Cubs took a 6-0 
Bogar, and catcher Mitch Meluskey made a throwing error. 
White and Girardi hit RBI sin­gles, Willie Greene had a run­scoring double catch against the right field wall. . 
Matthews hit an HBI single anrl scored on Jeff Huson's two­run double for a 9-0 lead i•n the fifth and Grace fouled off Joe Slusarski. 
Lugo's homer came with twu outs and followed walks to Bogar and Hoger Cedeno. 
Girardi hit an RBI single in the eighth off Jason Greeu for his fourth hit. Glen Barker added a two-run single in the bottom half. 
Phillies 4 Reds 3 
Mike Lieberthal's eighth­inning homer started a three­run rally that swept Philadelphia over Cincinnati. 
The Phillies got consecutivP wins for tbe first time since Aug. 8-9 by overcoming a 3-1 doficit against Scott Sullivan 
and  All-Star  closer  Danny  
Graves (10-4).  
Benito  Santiago's  pinch  

bases-loaded single in the sev­enth off Robert Person put the Reds up 3-1, but Lieberthal's 15th homer, a drive off Sullivan, started the Phillies' comAback. 
After Travis Leo singled and Rob Ducey walked, Marlon Anderson grounded a single up the middle that barely eluded Graves and diving shortstop Barry Larkin, tying the game at 
3. Tomas Perez hit into a force­out at second that allowed Ducey to score the go-ahead run and gave Graves his fourth only batter he faced to close out the seventh and get in line for the win. Vicente Padilla got two outs for his first career save. 
Cincinnati lost for the seventh time in nine games, extAnding a month-long slump at home that has squashed its comeback in the NL Central. e Reds are 4-11 at home since July 24. 
Before the game, Ken Griffey Jr. stopped Hall of Fanrn broad­caster Marty Brennaman and took issue with his criticism. Brennaman criticized Griffey on the air Sunday for jogging to first base on a hit that could have been stretched to a dou­ble. 
During their heated convp,rsa­tion, Brennaman said he'll con­tinue to point out when Griffey fails to hustle. Griffev went O­for-4, ending his eight-game hitting streak and dropping his average to .257. 
The Heds wa·sted a highly effi­cinnt st.art by Scott Williamson, vvho threw 70 strikes out of I07 pitches in seven innings. lie matched his carePr high with eight strikeouts and gave up only four hits on a night when it appeared Im wouldn't last long. 
Williamson hurt himself when he lost his balance and stum­bled off tlrn side of the mound as he threw a pitch to Doug Glanville in the third inning. After the trainer talked to him, Williamson took a few warmup throws and stayed in the game, though he moved slowly between innings. 
Person gave up three runs ­two earned -and five hits in 6 2-3 innings. He lost his control in the seventh, letting a 1-all tie slip away. The Reds loadrd the bases with two outs on Dmitri Young's double and a pair of walks, and Pmson went to a 3-1 count on Santiago before giving up a two-run single. 
Cardinals 5 Pirates 2 
Rick Ankiel won for the sec­
ond time in 11 starts and Jim 
Edmonds homered for the sec-, 
ond time in three games, lead­
ing St. Louis over Pittsburgh. 
/\nkiel (8-7) had been 1-4 since June 20, mostly due to control problems that forced him out of games early. However, the Cardinals have won in his last four starts. 
Ankiel, at 20 the youngest pitcher in the major leagues, allowed six hits with six strike­outs and four walks in seven innings, which matched his sea­son high. He gave up home runs to Keith Osik and Enrique Wilson in his final inning. 
Dave Veres got four outs for his 22nd save in 27 chances, stranding Aramis Ramirez, who had tripl~1d in the eighth, when Osik popped out to shortstop. 
Edmonds hit his 34th homer 
in lhe first off Todd Hitchie (6­
7). Edmonds' thrAc-run shot 
Monday was his first in 57 at­
bats. 
Consecutive doublPs by Will 
Clark and Fernando Tatis fol­
lowed by a triple by Will Clark 
made it 3-0 in the fourth. 
Osik hit his third honrnr lead­
ing off the seventh and Wilson 
hit his fif'th with two outs. 
Clark, who had three hits, hit 
his fifth homer to the opposite 
field off Scott Sauerbeck in the 
eighth. It was his first homer 
since he connected in his first 
four starts for the Cardinals 
from Aug. 2 to 6. 
Edgar Henteria added an Rl3I 
single off Hich Loiselle later in 
the inning. 

i 
!-I 
' 
I I 
I I ' 
I 
page JC, 
Calendar of Events 

Graduate Student Picnic Thursday, Augusr 24, 5:30-7:30 p.m. Fischer Graduate Residence Parking Lot Co-sponsored by FOG, GSU, MBA and Law School 
Latino Freshmen Open House Thursday, August 24, 7:00-9:00 p.m. 103 Hcsburgh Library 
Africentric Spirituality Freshman Intro Retreat 
Friday-Sunday, August 25-27 Fadma Retreat Cenrer 
Latino Freshman Retreat Friday-Saturday, Augusr 25-26 Oakwood Inn 
Freshmen Retreat #30 Sign-up Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill, Pasquerilla East, St. Edward's, Morrissey; Walsh, and Zahm 
August 22-September 18 103 Hcsburgh Library 
Notre Dante Encounter Retreat #62 Sign-up Monday-Friday, August 28-September I 103 Hesburgh Library 
Twenty-first Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Sunday, August 27 Mass 
10:00 a.m. 
Rev. David J. Scheidler, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. David J. Scheidler, c.s.c. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading Jos 24; 1-2a, 15-17, 186 

2nd Reading Eph 5: 21-32 or 5: 2a, 25-32 
Gospel Jn 6: 60-69 


Thursday, August 24, 2000

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
1150, u111, like••• HoV# v,as your su111111er?'' 
By Frank Santoni 
"So, how was your summer.)" 
Ahhh... chat over-asked question chat marks the beginning of every new school year. Ic's as much a part of moving back in as hand-me-down couches or missing parts to your loft. Usually asked innocently, without much thought, "So, how was your summer?" is a conve­
-nient conversation starter. It can serve as a nice filler, while you rack your brain for a first name, or for how you know the person you find yourself standing in front of asking, "So, how 
~" 
was your summer. 
"So, how was your summerr"' 
The poor question's misuse and abuse will stretch well into September as you continue to run into people for rhe first time. Mercifully, it gees a break in early October, only to resurface again as "So, how was your break?" immediately following Fall Break. 
It's too bad, really, if you chink about it. "So, how was your summer?" is a good question with some potentially meaningful replies. After all, each one of us did just spend three months away from here, doing God only knows what 
The question may with all of the extra time and energy summer brings. It's no surprise our friends and random not be original, acquaintances might actually be interested in the answer to "So, how was your summer.;,"but maybe our So much can happen in one summer: play, rest, work, travel. On the learning front, summer can 
answers can be be a CSC summer service project, a corporate internship, a music fellowship, or international study. On the personal side, summer often 
brings the promise ofa new relationship or the end to an old one. It can mean death or new life. It can mean climbing to new summits or travelling through old valleys. Undoubtedly, though, our summers provide rich soil for personal growth. And each of us, in our own way, comes to know ourselves and our God more deeply. 
To each of us, it may look a bit different, but summer almost always means radical, earth-shaking, paradigm-shifting experiences. The self-discovery summer offers is what summer is all about. It's what we longed for in the long, cold months of winter. But, now that summer has come to another speedy conclusion, how prepared are we to share the person we've become with the people around us? How ready are we to integrate what we've learned about ourselves into our lives at ND? 
Often, rhe beginning of the year can feel like a crisis of colliding worlds. We approach the new school year with reluctance because we're almost sure it will mean giving up the things we came to know and enjoy about ourselves and our relationships. 
A good friend shared with me that a few nights after returning to campus she sat on her dorm room floor and sobbed as she struggled to integrate what she had experienced on an international summer service project into her "real" life back here at Notre Dame. The ideas and thoughts that seemed so dear to her this summer living a simple lifestyle in a small Central American village were already beginning to get clouded by the clutter of her posses­sions and the busyness of her life. 
It would be easy for her to return to the normal routine of the academic year and leave rhe summer's lessons behind. It would make sense to pick up where she left off and play along with the familiar cues of her daily rhythms. That would be easy for any of us to do. But that would leave the summer's promise only half-fulfilled. Thanks to the summer, we each have something new and exciting to offer those around us. It's our responsibility to share it. 
Bur how do we keep the summer experience fresh? Answering the "So, how was your summer?" question honestly and thoughtfully may be a good start. But how do we continually renew that bright-eyed giddyness that only comes with a mid-summer revelation? 
Here's a po_ssible answer: I've discovered that it's that same brand of newness, the kind we enjoy on those long, lazy summer afternoons, that we discover rime and rime again in our faith in Jesus Christ. A merciful and loving God promises char we can be made new again, not just once, nor jusr every summer, but every day. If each day we look closely enough to recog­nize the grace of God in everything and everyone around us, we can be renewed and refreshed. And a summer's worth of adventure -physical, emotional, and spiritual -can be recaptured. 
So, how was your summer, anyway? 
-
·(Z\MPUStv11NISTRY 

Thursday, August 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
FOOTBALL 
Running back Fisher named for accolade 
Special ro The Ohservcr 
Junior tailback Tony Fisher is one of ;{5 candidates for the 2000 Doak Walker Award presented hy VP.ctrix. The award is given annually to the nation's top college run­ning back by tht> Southwestern Bell-S:'v!U Athletic Forum in Dallas. 
The 6-2, 225 lb. player fin­ished the 1999 season as Notrn Dami>'s learling rusher. running up 783 yards on 156 carries, an average of 5.0 yards a carry. Fishf'r also was fourth on the team in receiving, averaging 16.4 yards a reception. Fisher was a rnembr.r or Football News· all-Independent team in '99 and was named NBC Sports/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP for his dforts against Kansas. 
The Southwestern Bell Athletic Forum Board of Dirnctors will select eight semifinalists on November 8, and the Doak Walker Award National Selection Committee will vote on the winner in late November. The National Selection Committee consists of former All-Pro and All­America running backs, media members and se!f1ctPd special representatives. 
The winner will be announced live on ESPN's College Football Awards Shm,,· Thursdav, Dec. 7. The presentation b:mquet will be January 31, 2001, at the Fairmont Hotel in Dallas. 
Last season, former Wisconsin running back Ron Dayne won the award after becoming the NCAA's career rushing leader with 6,397 yards. · Pishfff joins an impressive list of candidates from around the country including Maryland senior LaMont Jordan, the nation's leading rnturning rusher with 3,227 career yards, TCU senior LaDainian Tomlinson, who was tops among Division I-A runners in 1999 with 1,850 yards and Texas senior Hodges Mitchell, a 1999 Doak Walker Award finalist. 
Attention SENIORS interested 
in the Rhodes, Marshall, and · Mitchell Scholarshi s Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a final meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the application process on: 
Tuesday, August 29, 2000 
6:00 p.m. 101 Law School 

If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be .ob.tained i.n 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 

NFL 
Lane's widow appears in court 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 

The wife of Fred Lane was ordered held with­out bond Wednesday as prosecutors said she could be chargt~d with first-degree murder in the shooting death of the NFL running back. 
Deidra Lane, 25, appeared close to tears as she appeared before Mecklenburg County District Court Judge Philip Howerton. 
Wearing an orange jail jumpsuit and shackles on her legs, she answered "yes" when Howerton asked if she knew she had been charged with murder. 
Under North Carolina law, she was charged with one count that covers both first-and second­degree murder. Prosecutors did not indicate which level they would pursue. 
First-degree murder is punishable by execu­tion, while second-degree murder carries a maxi­mum penalty of life in prison. 
At the request of prosecutors, Howerton declined to set bond. 
She had surrendered to police earlier Wednesday morning, accompanied by her lawyer. 
Deidra Lane's parents and pastor sat in the courtroom with her. Her mother held the baby girl born to the Lanes just a week before the foot­ball player was shot at close range in their home. 
Deidra Lane also has a young son from an ear­lier relationship 
"This is a major, major, traumatic event for this family," defense attorney Henderson Hill said. "She's a mother of two very young children. She is frightened to death. She misses her children. She's scared-what any young mother would be going through." 
Fred Lane, 24, was shot in the chest and head July 6 as he walked in the front door of the cou­ple's home after flying home from Nashville, Tenn. He had been staying with relatives in Tennessee after training with the Indianapolis Colts, which acquired him from the Carolina Panthers in April. 
Investigators have offered no details on the cir­cumstances of the shooting or a motive for it. Hill refused Wednesday to discuss Deidra Lane's motive or version of the shooting. 
The charges came nearly seven weeks after Fred Lane's death. 
"It's about time," said Carolina Panthers run­ning back Tshimanga Biakabutuka, as the team prepared for this week's final NFL preseason game, "I just wonder what took so long for them to press the charges.'' 
Police spokesman Keith Bridges acknowledged a long time had passed between Lane's death and the arrest. 
"There were only two parties in the house (at the time of the shooting), and we needed to talk to as many folks as possible," he said. 
Some of Lane's former Panthers teammates said they had hoped Deidra Lane would eventual­ly be charged. 
"This is probably a sad day because of remem­bering Fred and remembering the memories and stuff," receiver Muhsin Muhammad said. 
After the shooting, Biakabutuka, Muhammad and Panthers fullback William Floyd went to police to tell them about incidents they witnessed between Lane and his wife. They refused to dis­cuss those conversations Wednesday, but Floyd has said they had insisted Lane never abused his wife. 
"I was hoping (she would be charged) because the way things happened," Biakabutuka said. "Fred got shot twice, and in the head, and you don't shoot somebody twice in self-defense." 
The Lanes were married in 1998. In March, Deidra Lane filed a complaint against her hus­band, saying he snatched a necklace from her neck during an argument, causing her to fall. She did not press charges and later said she called police only because she was locked out of the house. 
Three days before his death, a grand jury in Jackson, Tenn., indicted Lane on misdemeanor drug charges after a Feb. 3 arrest. Prosecutors dropped weapons charges, citing a lack of evi­dence. 
Deidra Lane also has had run-ins with police. In 1995, she was charged with attempted rob­bery of a South Carolina credit union. She com­pleted a diversion program and was not convict­ed. 
Last week, warrants were issued charging her with writing two worthless checks, one on May 30 for $150, the other on June 1 for $300, according to the Mecklenburg County sheriffs office. 
Welcome Back

till
CENTER FOR 
SSP -NYSP -LIP ­

SOCIAL 
CONCERNS &ACCION Students 


Center for Social Concerns 
Summer Service Project Celebration 
The Center for Social Concerns would like to welcome the Summer Service students back to campus with a celebration to share the wonderful experiences that each shtdent had over the summer while participating in summer programs. 
You will also arrange for a follow-up meeting at this time.... except NYSP, ACCION) (unless you are participating in the Retreat from 8/25@ 5 PM to 8/26@ 4 PM) 
R Group photo will be taken at the celebration. Please bring photos from your summer eHperientes! 
Date: Saturday, August 26, 2000 Time: Between 9:00 M1 and 11:30 AM Place: Center for Social Concerns 
We will have aCelebration Mass in Keenan Chapel 
DON'T FORGET TO SIGN UP FOR YOUR 20 MINUTE "DEBRIEFING" 
For further information call the Center for Social Concerns at 631-9402 

page 18 
WOMEN'S GOLF 

Belles look to swing up in MIAA rankings 
By KATIE McVOY Ass,stam Spom Edicor 
The Belles golf team is look­ing to swing into action this fall with a strong returning team. 
Saint Mary's finished last season with a third place ranking in the MJAA, only six 
strokes out of secC>nd placo in the MIAA tournament. Tlrny plan on improving that record this year. 
"It is very realistic for us to finish in the top two," head coach Theresa 
Pekarek said. "We have the players to do that." 
Afler graduating only one senior last year. the Belles have the pla:yers for another successful season. Senior Natalie Cook returns after being named Junior Most Valuable Player and second­team all ~IM last season. 
''I'm going to be looking to !Cook) to realty lead the team this season," Pekarek said. 
Joining Cook as leaders are senior captain and junior Mary Claire Hathaway. lfoturning sophomore Molly Lee. will also play an impor­tant role after being named to second-team all MIAA with teammate Cook. 
Three freshman players will also be joining the team this fall and Pekarek is looking for them to be important mem­bers of the team. 
"I think they have the poten­tial to have an impact on this 
team," she said. "They have good experience and a lot of tournament play, and after they adjust to the longer dis­tances of college, they have the potential to play very good golf." 
Pekarek is looking for improvement in the women's short game before com petition begins this season. 
"The short game can really save you," she said. "We're going to work on putting, chipping, and hitting out of the sand. We will be focusing a lot on the short game." 
The players have been working hard this summer to lower their handicaps and get more tournament experience. They hope this will help them take on tough league competi­tion. 
Saint Mary's is gearing up to defflat Albion and Hope in loaguc rankings this year. Albion was the league leader last year while Hope won the MIN\ two seasons ago. 
"Albion and Hope have strong players and a lot of 
University Laundry 

-
I 813 South Bend Ave. 
at Campus Shops 
r------------------~--,
!50% off Drop~Off Serivce : 
, Brin!l This Coupon l : Expires 9/15/00 : 

•L---------------------~ 
"It's nice for the team to promises a 
have a break from lot of sup­port at that
traveling and have 

home meet
support in the middle because the ofthe season. " Saint 
Mary's athletic 
Theresa Pekarek 

department head golf coach is sponsor­
depth," Pckareksaid. "But we're going to play against the course and not the team." 
The Belles arc looking for­ward to their home meet at Brookwood Golf Course on September 14. 
"It's nice for the team to have a break from traveling and have support in the mid­dle of the season," Pekarek 
said. 
This year 
ing a bus to 
transport students, family. and faculty to the Brookwood Golf Course to support the team. 
Official practice begins when classes resume on Tuesday. The Belles will open their sea­son at Ferris State University in a two-day tournament on September 2nd and 3rd. 
FITNESS SCHEDULE 


RSRC Activity Room 1 
1  12:15-12:45 Cardio Box (ends 12/20) MW/F  $37  
2  4:10-5:10 Cardio Box M/W/F  $38  
3  5:20-6:35 Power Step n'Pump M/W  $34  
4  8:30-9:30pm Cardio Box M/W  $27  
5  12:15-12:45 Flex n'Tone (ends 12/21) Tffh  $24  
6  4:15-5:15 Step II Tffh  $26  
7  5:30-6:30 Cardio Box Tffh  $26  
8  4:15-5:30 Step II n'Sculpt Su  $14  
9  5:40-6:00 All Abs Su  $10  
RSRC Activity Room 2  
10  4:15-5:15 Step II M/W  $27  
11  5:25-6:10 Lo Impact M/W  $27  
12  7:00-8:15am Step II n'Sculpt Tffh  $34  
13  4:15-5:15 Cardio Sculpt Tffh  $26  
14  5:25-6:10 Flex n'Tone Tffh  $26  
15  4:45-5:15 Arms n'Abs Su  $10  
ROCKNE CLASSES Room 301  
16  5:30-6:30 Hi Int. HipHop (ends 10/ll)M/W  $14  
17  5:20-6:20 Step I Tffh  $26  
AQUATIC CLASSES Rolfs Aquatic Center  
18  12:15-12:45 Aquacise (ends 12/20) M/W/F  $37  
19  7:00-8:00pm Aquacise Tffh  $26  
KNOCKOUT WORKOUT  
20  7:00-8:15pm Joyce Center (ends 10/12)Tffh  $20  
INSTRUCTOR TRAINING  
21  6:45-8:15pm RSRC 9/11-11/20 M  $25  
REGISTRATION  

Thursday, August 24, 7:30am, RSRC. Registration takes place throughout the semester. Schedule is subject to change. Minimum of 14 class registrants. Classes begin the week ofAugust 28 and unless noted, end the week of Dec. 4. Call 1-6100 with questions. 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, August 24, 2000 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Hollle course provides advantage 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Saint Mary's Editor 
For tho first time in its short history, the Belles' cross coun­try team will have the benefit of running on its home course. 
Saint Mary's will host its first home meet this season when the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association (MIMJ Jamboree comes to campus Sept. 23. 
"This is a really exciting sea­son. It is the first time Saint Mary's is going to host a meet, and it will bring a lot of pride to our school." senior captain Genevieve Yavello said. "It brings a lot of pride because we are hosting not only a meet, but an important con­ference meet, at home." 
The Belles finished a some­what disappointing eighth in the league last season. They are hoping that the addition o·f the home meet will help move them up in the conference standings. 
"This year's goal is to finish in the top five of the confer­ence and continue to build a program that will eventually compete on the national level," said head coach Dave Barstis. 
The Belles lost a number of 
FALL 
2000 
seniors and will consequently be looking to the frnshmen and transfer students to fill in the gaps. Three of their top seven runners from the 1999 season will be absent from this year's squad. 
"Sophomores, incoming freshmen and transfer stu­dents will be called upon to fill the void and help present Saint Mary's College as a real conference contender," Barstis said. 
As training starts this fall, pack running will continue to be the focus of the Belles run­ning strategy. 
"We're going to try to keep the pack together this season and, simply, move it up in the race," Yavello said. 
Saturday, August 26, 2000 at 3:00 p.m. 
Rockne Memorial 
Qualifications: ND Freshman Women Only. 
Cheer Experience Necessary, Tumbling Series, 
Sharp Motions, Dance, Great Attitude and Spirit. 
ATTENTION COLLEGE PARK VISITORS: 
NO 
PARKING WITHOUT A PERMIT EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY. 


The team will focus its atten­tion on getting ready for their first meet against Aquinas College on Sept. 8 while also solidifying whern the nnw run­ners fit in the team. 
"The weeks that we have before our first meet are criti­cal," Yavello said. "That's the time we have to build our base." 
This time is also an impor­tant opportunity to get back to running as a team and com­peting as a unit. 
"What has been happening is that we have been working hard alone over the summer," Yavello said. "It's always real­ly exciting to come back together as a team aftor run­ning alone." 

Thursday, August 24, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

Join us THURSDAY for Heartland's 
5(H11Q~tgr I\ick_-0 fctrtg 
Then picture yourself here W0r_y Thursday. 
You never know what will develop when 1200 members of the class of 2001 mix it up. 
MEETING WEEKLY



Thursday, August 24, 2000

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
anything." Players' comments
ketball coach in three seasons, he knew it would take some lngelsby, the lone senior on
Brey 
effort to win the trust of both the team, took the transition in his players and the Notre Dame stride.
continued from page 24 
community. "Coach Rrey made the tran­
'Tm excited to play.for Just over two mlmths later, sition really easy for all of us,"no stretch for Brey adjusting to him. lie brings out the snlectivt1 admissions Brey is well on his way to doing lngelsby said. "Ile was really 
positive energy in

just that. Former coach honest with us. llc's a groat
rcriuinmrnnts at Notro Dame. The first-year Donwr is looking 
Doherty is all but forgotten. his coach and he comes from a everybody." name leaving a bad taste in the great ba,ckgroun~ at Dukr:. He's
forward to getting Notre Dame hack onto the East Coast mouths of many fans. a players coach. Graves rnc.ruiting <;irwit he's familiar 
"Now it's Coach Brny's team," Brey's definitely the new junior power forward Hyan guiding force behind Notrnwith frnrn his time at Duko. 
And lw knows NotrP Dame isn't llumphrcy said. "He's going tu Dame basketball, but like )('avn a stamp on Notni Dame lngelsby said, he's a player's "We've been through it
right !'or just anybody. 
wlrnrc people forget about coach. Ile plans to allow the 

'

"Not nvcry young man is before [coaching change}
team some l'nrndom to lead
going lo bn tlw right lit. hPrn." Coach Doherty. I think we have 
1/\~,. T'
and hope.fully we won't

tlw right coach for the job." thems('lves.
Brny said. "You'v11 got to work 
\C"

a little hard!'r Lo find a good From his first days on the job, "Martin and Troy [Murµhyl. haue to go through 
Brey made an effm·t to get to it's their team:: Brey said of his
µrospnct who's going to be the it again."
know Lhe men on the toam. try­two captains. "It's important toright lil and who's rPally going ing to earn their trust and con­get teams to take ownership of
to understand what this place 
Murphy

is all almul and bnli,wc i11 it. It's vince them of' his sincerity. themselves. This team has nut just a factory athletically." J\f'ter accepting the job on a already kind of' done that. Eight yuan; bnneath thn Fridav. Brey tlew back to his They've run themselves when home· state· of Delaware. By there's nobody at the helm." Hours7 
rnnow1wd coach Mike Kryznwski at Duke and fiv11 
LunchSaturday night, he was meeting In steering the Irish to a suc­with senior point guard Martin cessful season, the No. l goal is
year::; as head coach at 
Mon-Fri 

Delaware have prnpped Brny lngelsby and freshman recruit a berth in the I\JCAJ\ 
11am -2pm

Torrian Jones, both from near­Tournament, hopefully fol­
for the pressure of leading a 
by Philadelphia. lowlHI by a deep run in the
lop-notch Division I program. Dinner 
"W,i have somd)()dy in Mik,: "Initially I was a little upset tourney. Mon-Thu,"Our goal has to be to beBrny who is a wond(1rl'ul insti­that the guy that recruited me Sun lutioual fit," athletic director 
and thn guy I was comfortable high-fiving on Selection 
Spm-9pm

with was leaving," Jones said. Sunday," Brey said. "I think IKevin Whitn said. "I can't bt)gin 
"But Coach Brey callc>d me up can help with that. After last Fri-Satlo t£dl vou how excited I am 
the day after getting the job season, there am expectations, 5pm-9:30pmahout c:oach Brey and this 
and drove right up to watch and we've got to back that up. I 
CENTER FOR 

THAN/( YOU!!! 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

To all the students who gave their summer to service-learning in communities across the United States and Internationally. Your dedication to compassion and social justice was evident in the relationships you formed with members of your daycamps, shoals, AIDS programs, shelters, children's homes, outreach centers, clinics, women's care programs and hospitals, etc... 
Summer Service Projects -Hispanic/African-American leadership Intern Program -National Youth Sports Program -ISSLP 
Greg Adams  Steve Case  Brian Fellner  Missy Hostetler  Michael McGarry  Tom Pierce  Katie Schuster  Rachel Weiler  
Maria Alevras Rosalind Alexander Jonathan Alvarez  Sean Caufield Nitin Chandra Jessica Cichalski  Michelle Ferfolia Tim Ferrell Theresa Ferry  Chris Howald Shannon Hyduk Jamie Joehl  Patrick McGreevy Mary McLaughlin Luke McLaurin  Tony Polcari Ben Powers Jennifer Ptacin  Matt Sheehan Mari Shiraishi Jen Siirola  Carin Weingarten Mathew Werger Kelly West  SSP  
Ingrid Anderson  Rachael Clark  Matt Feucht  Nora Jones  Lisa McManus  Mari Pyle  Lauren Simmons  Patrick White  
Mcghan Anderson  Colleen Clarke  Carrie Fitzgerald  James Keller  Kevin McManus  Paul Quinlan  Rachel Smith  Amanda White  
Therese Anderson  Katie Coleman  Ann Fitzgibbons  Suzanne Kellman  Courtney Mercer  Noel Radley  Rachel Soltis  Katelin Wilcox  
James Andry Luke Archibald AdamAroian  Frances Contreras Emily Contreras Kelly Cooper  Dan Aynn Danielle Foster Dan Frailey  Rachel Kelly Jennifer King Kristin King  Colleen Moak Allison Moariarty Shauna Morin  Katherine Rakowski Meghan Raleigh John Randles  Anne Marie Spillner Shannon Stacy Jim Starman  Laura Sue Wolfe Nancy Wong Christopher Wright  LIP  
Sarah Barkmcier  Anne Cooper  Anne Gallagher  Sandra King  Jess Morrison  Janelle Reklau  Brian Starr  Saran Zalud  
Matt Barrett  Jamie Cox  Rosa Garcia  Malia Lam  Donna Mowchan  Becky Rey  Paul Stinson  Brian Zant  
Eric Barroso  James Cummings  Kathleen Gerschutz  John Lenzo  Sam Murillo  Kelly Rich  Judson Strauch  Andrew Zengel  
Laura Bastedo  Emily Daley  Russ Giancola  Ellen Leuchtmann  Katie Mylan  Karli Richards  Angela Stryjewski  ,  
Catherine Bateson Sarah Baum  Jessica Dalsing Andrew DeBerry  Megan Glah Abigail Gottschalk  Joe Lillis Libby Louer  Melisa Nakahodo Jessica Nance  Paul Ricketts Chris Ripple  Jeff Stuffings Lauren Suarez  ACC[•N  
John Beltramo  Nicole DeFrank  Jessica Gray  Melissa Lucero  Joseph Napolitano  Susan Roberts  Bridie Sullivan  
Katheryn Bilodeau  Vince DeGennaro  Tim Greene  Tim Lulich  Keli Ndukwe  Stephen Robey  Alexandra Swiacki  
Ellen Block  Mark DcMott  Megan Griffin  Tony Lusvardi  Sarah Nedeau  Heriberto Rodriguez  Kellie Swift  
Ellen Blocker  Nathaniel DeNicola  Anthony Griswold  Missy Lydigsen  Jay Newman  Michelle Roeser  Lara Szymula  
Tony Bondi  Nikki DePersis  Meghan Gurgol  Lauren Lyons  Julia Noone  Kim Rollings  Cheryl Tansk  
Jermaine Brown Wendy Brueggeman Elizabeth Buescher  Kristine Devany Kate Diaz Aubree Dill  Bryan Haffey Kortny Hall Jennifer Hamamoto  Luke Macaulay James Madden Joe Madia  Kristin Nowak Mia Nussbaum Chris Nygren  Liddy Romero Jonalhan Rosemcyer Rachael Rathrauff  Mary Tarsha Amber Thill Stephen Torchen  ISSLP  
Sharon Bui  Emily Disque  Emily Haranin  Rachel Mahoney  Kristina O'Neill  Patrick Ruder  Alison Tullis  
Carolyn Buller  Chenell Donadee  Katherine Harcourt  Myrmose Marcellon  Erin Olson  Morgan Russell  Eric Unrinc  




coaching staff." 
when he heard I had a game, think this group's ready to do
Wlwn Brny took ovnr in July 

without any prior nolice or that."
as tlw third Notre Dame bas-
Free Observer classifieds are coming online September 1. http://observer.nd.edu 
211 
D L 
-,.-----,ATH A I RESTAURANT C N. MAIN S 0 ST. A 
L
"The first Thai restaurant in town. We F L · invite you to try world class 
A L 
cuisine, Thai cuisine, the delicate art X ~<:,'\· E c't\\l,f>­
that descends from primogenitor. Thai 
~\
cuisine is designed to excite your five senses; sweet, sour, salty spicy, and [nu§natural." 
211 N. Main St. South Bend, IN
Now Hiring 46601 

Rachel Bundick  Mark Donahey  Tom Hayes  Jaclyn Marroquin  Jane Ong  Shanaree Sailor Mike Valle 
,­ Katherine Burnett  Liz Donnell-Fink  Adrienne Haynes  Monica Mata  Irene Onyeagbako  Jessica Salinas Julie Yan Weclden  
Krista Busch  Amanda Dovidio  Amy Heckel  Domingo Maynes  Mark Panza  Cherise Sanchcz-Yund James Vavricek  
Charlotte Cable  Kelly Dries  Charles Hedman  Karina Mayorga  ~isha Parker  Amy Schlatterbeck Tony Wagner  h..,s:,­ 
Brendon Cahill  Thomas Enright  Katherine Henze  Chrissy Mazurkiewicz  arcela Parodi  Jessica Schmidt Yem Walker  
Becky Camillus  Tim Fallon  Kelly Hoene  Andy McBride  Katrina Paulson  Jacqueline Schmidt Matt Walsh  
Rob Capone  Kathy Fanning  Lauren Hoge!  Mike McCabe  Allison Pedine  Sara Schnieders Adam Weaver  
Ryan Carlson  Marissa Farrone  Abby Holtz  Katie McDonough  Stephen Pfci ffer  Paul Schofield Beth Webber  



Thursday, August 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Best Price, Quality & Selection. 
Futon Factory Futons are the Smart Choice for Back-to-School 
--Futons to fit every room and budget. --Financing & delivery options available. --Close to campus! --Over 500 futon cover fabrics available. --Futon covers start at --8 futon mattress grades. --Over 20 different frame styles fit every decor. --Home accessories & more. --Futon specialists since 1991. 

advertisements were absent from his walls, he did have one
Outside 
important piece of art waiting to be hung. A blank tournament
continued from page 24 
bracket for the 2001 NCAA 
said about his venture to North. 
llut !Jrny will learn. Just like ovnrv rrnshma11, he will 0110 clay bn c;mfrontl'd with "Toad in tbP. 110!(1" and change his opinion of' ~]) h)Ocl Scrvkos. 
\Vhilo ho may ncwrr have to d1•al with D.AH.T., hP has alroady fan•d scheduling prob­lems ol' his own. \Vhmi lw took DVnr in July. Urn At.hietic DHparlmf!nt told him in addilion to shoring up rnc:ruiting commit­m<'nls. hirini a );taff and mPnt­ing his rww team, he tllso had to sdrndul(, orrn moro non-confor­PIH"P gamn. Aftnr a f'nw I) A.H.T.­liko n~jnct.ions. lw landed a ganrn with Vorrnont to r.omplntP thr. sclrndu11~. 
Whil1\ Broy\; lirst test of his Irish carnnr won't conrn until !\ovcnilwr 25, he is already nic:civing high marks from his "profnssors." 
"I think wn actually lwlµed oursclV!'s." .'\thlct.ir Director Dr. K<win 'A11itc said. "It's a hard thing to say at 1\/latl's [Dolrnrt,v's} <>x1wnse but I think w!" help(!d ourselves. We have somebody in :vtikP Hmy that wpmsents the institution wdl and at the same tinw brings sea.soning and ma.tu­rity to the sidelines." 
.lust likP any fn~shman dorm room. Brny's rlffice is decorated with posters that re!1oct his own goals and tastes. So while super­modPI posters and alcohol 
*

Ait~:x;f}_ I J;f N. IHWN• ••• ~aHAIR MODELS NEEDED
e) 
For Monday'sTraining Program by Licensed Professionals Call for infonnation 
289-5080 
One mile from Cam us 

Championship sat on his coffee tabin just to remind him or his goals. 
'"Wp, just nePd to km~p these around. I am probably going to put this up (HJ the wall," lw said about th<' bracket. "That's just something W<' need to look at ctailv. The bottom line is this program hasn't been in it since 1990 and that's incredible to me." 
The freshman is also lnarning a little bit about the magic of this campus as well. 
"You're driving down there on an Pvening on a summer night and the lights coming off the Dome," he said. "And I tell you, that can get to yoo. That tugs on the heart, !Jig time." 
Cyniotl uppPrr.lassmPn may dismiss those words with a shrug, A year ago, they saw a baskPtball coach cry at a prPss conforrmcc in the Joyce Center only to sHe him cry at a press conforpnr,p in tho Doan Dome this summer. nut Brey plans on hf'ing more than just a one-year wonder like his predecessor. lie doesn't want to go through another frf'shman orientation next year at Duke. 
"Absolutely not," he said. "That's never been one that would be interesting for me." 
Looks like the freshman might be a grizzled old veteran before long. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL ... 
Murphy among Preseason Top 50 
Special to The Observer 
Junior men's basketball forward Troy Murphy, a con­sensus All-American a year ago, is one of tho Preseason Top 50 candidates for the 2000-2001 .John n. Wooden All-i\.mcrica team. Murphy, a mnmbcr of tho 10-member All-America squad last sea­son. also has beAn designat­ed as one of the top 25 votc­getters. 
Murphy, along with st>nior Shane Hattier of Duke, are the only two previous candi­dates on th11 current list. 
In late December, the Award Committfli> will release a Midscason Top ;30 

-

list. The 10-member Wooden Award All-America team will be announced on March 27, 2001 with one member from that squad selected on April G, 2001 as the recipient of the Wooden Award Trophy as lhe nation's "Most Outstanding Collegiate Raskcthall Player." That a.nnouncement will be shown on a one-hour telecast on FOX Sports Net. 
Murphy, the 2000 BIG EAST Player of the Year, averaged 22.7 points and 
10.3 rebounds as a sopho­more and was Notre Dame's 
JOHN DAILY /The Observer

first first-team consensus 
Junior forward Troy Murphy is one of the Preseason Top 50

All-American since Adrian Dantley in 1976. candidates for the 2000-2001 John Wooden All-America team. 
I 
-' I 

Please recycle The Observer. 
Shop The Midwest's largest Futon Retailer! . 
FUTON FACfORY 
SOFA BY DAY BED BY NIGHT 
~~!~~oa!-i!!P:r..~:!~­
219-213-2660 
rr .-.-' .. ,... ,..
~ 
Thursday, August 24, 2000 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
ship athletes. For example, the 
VOLLEYBALL 
men's lacrosse program, which doesn't offer scholarships, isn't included In the figures. 
Irish 'set' for season opener
Halischak's research sug­
Notre Dame finished last
I 
season with a 20-9 overall
I 
record, including l l -0 in the
Top ten student-athletes' 
r 
conference play. The Irish 
return five starters as they
graduation rates 
Kristy Kreher. a junior oppo­
"This year our goal is to
site, returns 
make it to the Sweet 1 6. I
from last season as a second definitely think we are team all-Big 
going to be the most pre­
East ch11icf1. 
pared team in the !Jig
Kreher stands at second in Notre East." Dame history with a .294 
Denise Boylan
career hitting 
averagB while senior volleyball player finishing at .377 in leaguP play 
the Irish bope to top th n con for­e 11 C (! tourna­
m e n t t h i s. year, as limy lost for thn I' i r s t tirnn in t h e i r five-ynar 

l ... 
I I 
l I I 
i 
I 
Sears 
continued from page 24 
or six yN\rs to graduatP. 
"Tho vast majority of pt\oplP who an· admitted hem will graduatn horn. athletes or non­athkti!, and they'll graduatn in four yr.ars." lleislcr said. 
Success at graduation begins bef'orn thr. athletr,s evr,n set foot on campus. 
Notrn Danrn makes all effort to rlHTllit studr.nt-athlntes who will thrivr. in Notro Damn's chal!Pnging acadPmie program. 
"Whnn coaches go out and rncruit, thr.y all -regardless nf the sport --make a genuine effort. to bring people here who can bn successful," IIalischak said. "They go out and recruit students who want to be here." 
llalischak noted that statis­tics don't cmnplctdy illustrate tlw sw:cess of Notrn Dame stu­d!'l1t-athl1\l!•.s, sim:1i th(; NCAA statistics nnly rellN·t scholar­

gests thal when non-scholar­ship athletes are also included, the athletes' academic profile is similar to the studp,nt body in general. 
"When vou look at all of our student-athletes we a1·e VMY similar [in graduation rnte] Lo the University average," 1lalischak said. 
• ~otre Damn has consistently bnen a national leader in ath­lHlo graduation rates. 
"This isn't something that just. started," lleisler said. 
Since 1962, when records begin. 98.6 percent of scholar­ship football players who stayed here for at least four years have graduated. 
Men's basketball boasts a 100 percent graduation rate since 1962. All 107 scholarship players who stayed four years graduated. 
. Preseason poll slates team No. 1 once again 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team prepares to start the 2000 season with the Big East preseason poll slating t.lrn Irish _to rinish 1'.o. 1 yet again in regular-season lt:>ague action. 
The Irish picked up 11 CJ points, including nine first­place \'Otes while their clos­est competitor, Georgetown, the defending postseason champion, earned the sec­
ond-place  slol  with  111  
points and  three first-p lace  
votes.  

i 
1. Duke 
2. Notre Dame 
3. 
Stanford 

4. 
Virginia 

5. 
Penn State 

6. 
Michigan 

7. 
North Carolina 

8. 
Michigan State 

9. 
Southern California (tie) Wisconsin 




Attend the Info Session on September 21st anytime between 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. at the Stewart 
Center in room 322. Pizza served at 5 p.m. and refreshments served all day. Bring your resume! 
Also stop by our booth at any of the 4 Purdue job fairs: 
• 
Sept. 7, 2000 -Computer Roundtable 1 0 a.m. to 4 p.m. 

• 
Sept. 13, 2000 -PESC Industrial Roundtable 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 

• 
Sept. 14, 2000 -School of Management Employers Forum 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 

• 
Sept. 22, 2000 -Purdue BCM Roundtable 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. 


If you are interested in a career at Arthur Andersen email your resume to the Purdue Recruiting Team at chi-campus_recruiting@us.arthurandersen.com. Or fax: 312-462-4369. 
Assurance • Business Consulting • Corporate Finance• eBusiness • Human Capital• Legal Services• Outsourcing• Risk Consulting• Tax Services• 
Note: The services offered in particular areas may depend on local regulations. In some locations, 
legal and/or tax services are provided by Andersen Legal, the international network of law firms that 
is associated with Andersen Wortdwide SC. 
~ 

Arthur Andersen refers to the U.S. firm of Arthur Andersen LLP and other members of the Arthur Andersen 
ARTHURANDERSEN

global client service network. ©2000 Arthur Andersen. All rights reserved. EOE. 
aim for yet another title. "I hope that we've made a
91% 
lot of strides sincA last sea­
88% son," senior Denise Boylan said. "I think we have. Our
87% 
preseason went really well." 
Aller earning a spot on the all-Big East l 999 first team, 
82% 
79% 
Boylan, Notre Dame's senior captain sPtter, was n11med
71% 
this year's preseason Big
67% 
East player of tbe ye-ar. Boylan led the Irish in 1999
64% 
with 1,132 assists and 35 aces while also currently ranking second in Irish histo­
60% 
60% 
ry with 3,291 assists and an 
11.84 assist av!~rage. 
Also receiving prns!iason all-Big Ea.st honors was (ltJt­sid e senior playin Christi Girton, who earned second I.earn all-Big East in 1998 and 1999. 
Girton topped the Irish last year with 333 kills and 201 digs, while ranking IO in career hitting witb a .254 average. 
isl, rnturns af'ler starting all 29 matches of the 1999 sea­son. Coughlin will join sopho­more Janie /\ldcroto and senior Adrienrrn Shimnrnl in the back row. 
With the loss ol' 1999 Big East player of tho ynar Mary Leffers as well as Emily Schiebout and Lauron Stettin, the Irish have picked up four freshmen. 
With four Big East titl!~s. 
for the 1999 season. 
Another returning player, junior Marcie Born hack, started 27 of 29 matches last season while maintaining an average of 2.91 kills and 2.31 digs per game for her career. 
Senior blocker Jo Jamcyson recovers from an injury that kept her out of the majority of 1999 play. Jameyson, wh;, has career averages of 1.87 kills, 1.75 digs and .81 blocks per game, will be joined by Malinda Goralski in the mid­dle. 
Sophomore Keara Coughlin. a dcf'ensivn special-
conference participation in the 191J9 s1!ason. 
"Last year it was disap­pointing that W!\ only rnad11 it to the first round of thn NCAA tournamnnt." Boylan said. "This yoar our goal is to make it to the Swoot 16. I definitely think we are going to Im the most prnparnd team in th,~ Big East." 
Notrn Dame will kickoff the 2000 season against Fairlfolcl in game two of tlrn Shamrock Invitational on Friday, S11pt. 
1. The Irish bP.gin Big East play against Villanova on Sept. 29. 

Thursday, August 24, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 
SUMMER AT THE UNlVEP.SITY OF NOTRE 
DAME BUILDING SERVICES ... 
WE NEEi> MORE 8ARR8-S 
OF URINE. THE STUDENTS WILL BE 8AC1' IN JUST A FEW MOltE wea:s 
BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
k1DS? i&.NO'I'? I SAID I'M IT'S NOT MY FAULT l I'M oFF To WORK! 
8\'E, EVERYONE! 

oFF To WoRIC! SEE YOU HAVE To SE AT,&. 5 A.M. 
TONIGHT! I LOVE \'OU! CONFERENCE CALL. 
In case you were wondering, you do stick out. 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Bea Arthur, Stevie Wonder, 
Oive Barnes, Ritchie Valens, Stephen 
Donaldson, Peter Gabriel, Joe Louis 
Happy Birthday: You'll do best if 
you work by yourself this year. Oth­
ers are not likely to have the same 
vision as you and therefore are likely 
to put a negative spin on your ideas. 
You will have a good eye and will 
find it easy to fix any problem that 
arises along the way. The more time 
you spend preparing, the better your 
projects will turn out. Your numbers: 
10, 14, 16, 22, 29, 37 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Put 
your creative energy into your work. 
You'll attract controversial attention, 
which could result in a unique and 
exciting love connection. Don't keep 
your free-spirited thoughts to your­
self. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
You'll be misled if you think everyone 
is telling you the truth. Find out for 
yourselfif you have any doubts what­
soever about any of the information 
that you're being fed. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't 
even consider getting involved in 
joint ventures. Dead-end projects are 
apparent. You can look at contracts, 
but hold off signing anything until 
you get the go-ahead from your legal 
adviser. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Social 
activity will lead to romance. You can 
win the hearts of the children in your 
life if you show an interest in the 
things they enjoy doing. Your emo­
tional partner may have second 
thoughts. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be 
frustrated if you can't accomplish 
your goals because of a co-worker's 
incompetence. Problems with your 
boss will surface if he or she thinks 
EUGENIA LAST 
it's your fault. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You need to do something a little drastic if you want to change your image. Take a long, hard look at yourself and set a goal that is sure to lift your spirits and attract other people's interest. 000 
LIBRA (Sept 23-Oct 22): Domes­tic issues will be perplexing. You'll have trouble getting a straight answer out of the party you' re involved with. Be understanding, but don't put up with abuse or anyone who is an escapist. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): Part­nerships may not be as they appear. Find out exactly where you stand. You may be misreading the interest someone has in you. He or she may be concerned only with your talent. 
000 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Make those career moves you've been thinking about for so long. If you need to make a move, start packing. You've never liked to stay in one place for too long, so quit procrasti­nating. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Someone you love will not listen to or believe what you have to say, Actions speak louder than words in this case. I suggest you give whatever is desired in order to make amends. 00 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You 
can be progressive if you direct your 
efforts into financial ventures or pro­
fessional accomplishments. Don't sit 
back waiting for others to do things 
for you. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get 
involved in a cause. You have a spe­
cial way of helping others. Don't let 
your abilities be wasted. Find some­
thing you believe in and make a 
difference. 000 

CROSSWORD 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE RI PS RIFT 
E M A I T I D E A 

P U N 
I C E 
0 0 Z ...,..+.,...+-,...+-,;;,+.;,;.. E S 
W I R Y ~.::.i.;.~:..,.;...;. N T A L A S M O S 
59 Have 60 Erupter of 1992 61 Dangerous job 62 Fed. hush-hush 
group 63 Settle 
DOWN 
1 Scour 2 Orenburg's river 3 Priest of the 
East 4 Diner souvenir 5 Sleeveless tunic 
worn over a knight's armor 6 Expiate 
7 Singer Bill known as the Cowboy Rambler 
8 Impair 9 Not at all resentful 
10 Fat stuff 11 Kind of call 

ACROSS 
1 "I Spy'' co-star 5 Opening device 8 "Lycidas" poet 
14 Kind of account 15 From z 16 Melodic 17 Wuss 19 Change the 
agenda 20 Clear-cut 22 Above reproach 23 De Valera's land 24 Raised 26 Improvised, in a 
way 
29 Standard advice for a bride 33 Square dance group 34 Kicks 35 Brooks or Allen 
36 Average, e.g. -;t7 N.F.L. Hall-of-Farner George 38 Austin of "Knots Landing" 39 One in the 
service? 40 Solved 41 Long for 42 Cottonwood 
relatives 44 "Macbeth" 
figures 45 Indelicate 46 Warm-up 47 1949 Cagney 
film 50 Many a yard sale item 55 Forgives, as an 
offense 57 Advance 58 Popped up 12 Anthem opening 


13 Asian, e.g. 18 Did half a 
biathlon 
21 Conventional 25 Officiates 26 "Ballad of John 
Henry" folk singer 27 Malfunction 
28 Highest peak in the Philippines 
29 Orders to go? 
30 "In other words • 31 Brass 

32 They usually do no harm 
34 Singer who formed the Love Unlimited Orchestra 
3701d 

antisubversive group 38 Den decorations 40 Din 
41 Barely moved 43 Buildup 
44 "The Real 51 Study of G.D.P . McCoys" co-star and such of 50's-60's TV 
52 Not supporting 46 Team followers 
53 "Cats" director 47 Lab subject Trevor 48"My_!" 54 Durable wood 49 Dubai V.I.P. 56 _-cone 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
------------------------------------------------~------------~---~-------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name ______________________ Address---------~--------­
City _______State ____ Zip______ 
.. 

Spiking Success 
The Irish volleyball squad is ranked No. 1 ;n the B;g East entering regular season play. The team was 11-0 in conference play last season.

PORTS 
page 26 


O
THE 
page 24 BSERVER Thursday, August 24, 2000 


MEN'S BASKETBALL • 
New hoops coach settles into role as leader 
. Brey begins to find niche with players 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assnri;Ht' Sporr..; Editor 
Sitting in his new of!ict' in the Joycti Cm1ter, first-year twad haskPtlmlt coal'h Mikn Brny whipped out a National Championship ring from his days at D11kP Univnrsity. 
Uh-oh. 
Would Notn! Dame rind itself in llw sam11 situation as il had in .fu fy vvlrnn t'or­11wr roach l\·laU ·nolwrty lef't Notrn Danrn after just one ypar for his alma mater North Carolina? Would Brey fly tlw coop if Duke coach Mike Kryznwski decides he's had P110ugh" 
Brny claims that's not an optio;1. fin's intP-restnd in creating his own traditions al Notre llanw. 
"Tlrny'vti donn i1 tlmrn lat Duk<'I," Brey said. 'Td likP. to do some Ihrke stuff hem. Betw~!en trying lo follow Coach Kryzrwski and the f'arl lhal thry've clone it all then' before: can't we do it 
lwre'!" 
Brny plans to stay at Notre Dame for the long haul. turning the Joycn Centnr into a place whP.re Final Four teams become commonplace. 
"U would be son111thing to try to get it where opposing coaches say, 'We hate play­ing at tlrn Joyce Cnnter,"' Brey said, "To be a trrnm that challnnges for the Big East Championship." 
Moldnd al prestigious aca­dPrn ic institutions such as Ihrke, the University of l>nlawarn and DeMatha Catholic I ligh School, it was 
see BREY/page 20 


Sears ranks student athletes second 
By ERIN PJROUTEK 
Sporr, Writ,•r 
Although fall sports teams are just bi)ginning to amass victories, Notre Dame's studunt-athletes have already earned academic honors. Among the top 25 athlr,tic programs according to the Snars Directors Cup which ranks overall success of athletic programs based on a point system for all sports, Notre Dame's 88 percent student-athlete grad­uation rate is the second highest. Duke leads the rankings with a 91 peccnt

..,_ 
graduation rate, according to NCAA data. 
Since the early 60s, Academic Services for Student-Athletes has taken responsi­blitiy for guiding athletes to graduation in four years. 
"We monitor very carefully all stu­dent-athletes," said Kate llalischak, director of Academic Services for Student-Athletes. 
Notre Dame's system is different than that at other major institutions, said assistant athletic directory John Heisler. 
"Is a unique entily because it isn't part of the athletic department. Actually they 
report to the provost's office," said Heisler. 
Although student-athletes receive sep­arate advising and tutoring services, they still have to meet the same acade­mic standards as non-athletes. 
"Expectations of the student-athlete at Notre Dame aren't going to be any dif­ferent than for any other student," Heisler said. 
Additionally, the general atmosphere at Notre Dame is focused on progress towards graduation -unlike many schools where students often take five 
see SEARS/page 22 
. Newcomer adjusts to life on, off campus 
Amid tlrn sea ol' 18-year-old faces wandering tlrn quads, looking losl during freshman orientation, you could find another 41-y<~ar-Pld l'acn looking just as IQst. 
"I took part in all th<! freshman ori­ontalion pro­grams." nnw nwn's basket­ball coach Miko Brey said. "l wnnt to all the meetings bncausolnt's l'ace it, I am a freshman. I brought my family over to the mass bncausn I need to lwar that stuff too." 
The married Brey was not look­ing for phonn numbers at Donrnr Fnst but [inding campus landmarks is still a problem. When grny got his acceptance letter in July -a bit later than most of the Class of 2004 -he arrived in South Bend without a l'ricnd or a dun about how lo have a good time in South Bend. While the freshmen that arrivnd on campus last wnnk had plenty of other rreshmen to hang around with, Brnv was all almu'. So he quickly lat<:hed on to a group of uppcrdassmnn -uppnrdass­men like Troy Murphy, David Graves and other basketball play­ers who stayed on campus for summer school. 
"I don't have any friends and I don't know anyb<Jdy in this town." Brey said to his team before they went out for pizza to get acquaint­nd. "I said let's go got some pizza on Crape Strnnt -lmcause that was tlrn only place I krww how to gnt to at the end of' July." 
Murphy still gives Broy sonw grief' for calling GrapP Hoacl "Grape Street" but slowly Bniy is learning his way around campus. Brey's freshman ignorancn was apparent during one recruiting visit this past summor. 
"I could get to ll11ck11rs so wn went them and we got a sand­wich," he said. "So then the moth­er turns to mn and says 'Coach, before we head homn, wn'd like lo go to the bookstore and get some stuff. Could you show us how tcJ get thero"' I h>oked at lrnr and said 'i\bsolut1~ly not.· She started laugh­ing and almost foll out of her chair. Now wh1-mcver she talks to me she asks if I found the bookstore yot." 
While his knowledge or campus landmarks has improved, he still has an air of freshman innocence about him. After just one trip to the dining hall, he gives the food good ratings. 
"That's pretty good food," he 

see OUTSlDE/page 21 

vs. South Carolina Volleyball Volleyball
.,,
in Forr Wayne, Ind. vs. Fairfield at Alma Tournament
SPORTS f!J 
Saturday, 12 p.m. Sepr. l, 4 p.m. Sept. 1-2 
Cross country 

-.,,
ATA ar Valparaiso Inv. 
vs. Detroit SitC Blue vs. White -vs. Texas A & M
''Ii Sept. 9, TBA 
Sunday, I p.m. Sept. I, 4 p.m. Sept. 2, 12 p.m. 
~­
GLANCE 

COtJGRATUI-ATIOtJS! 
YOU HAVE BEE,J SEI-ECTEO TO BE PART OF THE ,JEXT sou..i  
l-lSTE,Jl,JG TEAM. THIS IS A GREAT HOtJOR. CAREFUl-1-Y  
FOi-i-OW THE STEPS BEi-OW TO AVOIO EMBARRASSME,JT  
OR ltJJURY. HAVE FUtJ, BE PREPAREO AtJO KEEP IT Cl-EAtJ.  
0UYl~G YOUR CO AT TARGET  
I. APPROACH THE CHECKOUT WITH CO AtJO A BIG SMII-E.  
2.. HAtJO tJEATl-Y FOI-OEO Bll-l-S TO CHECK­ 
OUT PERSOtJ.  3. ACCEPT CHAtJGE  
A,JO BAGGEO CO WITH  
GRATITUOE AtJO OIGtJITY.  
TELLl~G YOUR FRIE~v'S  
SPEAK Cl-EARI-Y  
AtJO Fl-UE,JTI-Y  
1,JTO MEGAPHOtJE.  
SAY, "HEY, I  
REAl-1-Y EtJJOY  
THIS MUSIC!"  
OR...  
CAI-I-YOUR  
BUOOY ltJ Fl-ORIOA.  
HE'l-1-APPRECIATE  
THE TIP.  00 t-JOT I-ET Wll-P' At-.llMAI-S  
SIT Ot-.1 YOUR CO  
v'A~Cl~G TO A SELECTIO~  

OAtJCltJG IS A tJORMAl-AtJO HEAi-THY RESPO,JSE TO A GOOO SO,JG. YOU CA,J OAtJCE BY YOURSEI-F OR E,JCOURAGE OTHERS TO JOl,J l,J BY SAYltJG, "l-ET'S HAVE A OAtJCE." 




I. HAtJOS AT REST 2.. RAISE ARM At.JO POl,JT 3. HAtJOS AT REST 4. OROP A,JO SPltJ 5. HA,JOS AT REST 

.• ,1ff4E1'i:-, 
MIGHTY MIGHTY 
BossfoNES 
11[1]1111"111Bii 


ELLIOTT SMITH-MIGHTY MIGHTY BossTOIJES-
F!GUREB PAYATTEAITIOAI 

~ ~ 
L -, ' 
. 
JURASSIC5-FULL f7EVIL JACKET­

..., a 
GUA/..ITY t:otJTROJ. Fut.t. f7EVIJ. JACKET 
U.P.0.­
/Jo PLEA5A/JTl?IE5 




.. 

RICHAR17 ASHCROFT-f7AtJl7Y WARHOLS-/.3 7},,1£5 STIR-HOLY /70G5 RAIJCll7-RAAIC!l7 At.0/JE 1-¼THEVERY80l7Y FROM LJR8A/J BOHEMIA 

•
Tt\\\.ROOT 
1116 



rµm,µ,J 

cG?Ft ~ 
tJOFX-TAPROOT-GIFT MoRCHEE0A-M00YSOIJGS -THE8E5T PUMPUP THE VAt.UUM FRAGMEIJT5 OFFREEl70M OFMotw /99.3-1998 


CUT OUT CDs OF MERIT A~D APPl..Y THEM TO YOUR ~EXT SOU~D SASH. REMEM0ER, A DECORATED SASH SAYS, "HEY, f'M A REAl-l-Y ACTIVE I-IS TE~ER." 
GOOD I-ISTEIJHJG IS Al-WAYS REWARDED. USE THIS COUPOtJ FOR SUPER SAVltJGS OtJ YOUR tJEXT SOUtJD PICKS, 0UT REMEMBER TO TUCK 11" YOUR SHIRT At.JD Al-WAYS USE PROTECTIVE EYEWEAR. 

~20FF 
AtJY c,:;, FROM THE "tJEXT 

~ SOUtJ17" SECTIOtJ ltJ THE 
MUSIC 17EPT. AT TARGET 

Limit one item per coupon, one coupon per guest Reproductions not accepted. Void where prohibited by law. No cash value. Cashier: Scan product, then scan coupon 


5 85239 64182 3 ( 8100) 0 02641 
I cl 
Ii" 
,2 
I.!!! 
;~ 
"' 
.!!! 
C 
Cl
·;;; 
0 
" 
"it;' 
!!2 
:i 
ro 
~ 
,,; 
i" 
0 
U) 
1ii 
ei 
i"' 
0 
8 
"' 


------------------------------------------·@ 



