...... Faith, feminism and the future 
FilmJunkies.net 
Theologian Sandra Schneider comes to Saint Freshmen Brian Bircher and Brian Scofield are 

Thursday
. 
t 
Mary's for this weekend's Convergence running a successful Website offering movie news 
conference to lecture on woman and the Church. 
and reviews from their Siegfried dorm rooms. 

APRIL 27,
. 
t 
News . page 3 
Scene . page 17

. 
.... 
...... 
2000 ================================================================================================================================== 
THE 




The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXlll NO. 127 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Married science professors enjoy a match made in lab 
Bv MARIBEL MOREY New, Writer 
Students who do not find a significant other or fiance by thPir sm1ior yPar of r.ollPge will usually !'ind one in graduate sf'.1100I. according to Jeff and Crislyn SchorPy 
The Schoreys, both Notre Danw sriPncP ·profPssors. diri just that at the University of 'foxas. 
"In graduate school, all the limn is spent at the lab. The world revolves around your lab," Crislyn said. "That is why it's not unrommon to see two scientists together_" 
Sinc1\ 60 hours a week are usually spent in the lab during a biological scienco Ph.D. track. the curriculum can be verv consuming. These student; often ultimately spend much of tlrnir lime with fellow science majors. As a result, it is no coincidence that thrre are hus­band and wife teams in science. 
Aftm· finishing school, the Schoreys were searching for jobs at the same time. 
"If' a university is interested in one person, they will at least look at the other [spouse]," Jeff said. A lot of times a school will only fill the positions it adver­tisos for. but private schools have more leeway. 
Although there is no special program for married faculty at Notre Dame. the Schoreys were very impressed with University, they said. 

"Notre Dame is pretty accom­modating of married couples," Jeff said. "!\Jotro Darrrn sees [hiring a spouse] as a way to briug people ItheyJ otherwise wouldn't." 
When Crislyn arrived at Notre Dame for her interview two years ago, she was very impressed wilh the campus, she said. 
"T really enjoyed my interview here and the campus was beau­tiful." she said. "When I got on the plane the chances were pretty high that J would come if Jeff got a position as well." 
Crislyn was offered assistant professorship and endowed chair in the Walter Cancer Institute, while continuing her research in basic cancer. Jeff became an assistant biology professor researching infec­tious diseases. 
Although the labs are on campus, the science discussions continue at home. 
"We used to talk a lot about science over dinner, but we've tried to reduce it," she said. "It just happens ... We try out best not to bring work home, but more often than not, we talk about science." 
These discussions at night can bring new insight into their own research. 
field. 

"If I have ideas or problems, I "We have some interests that bounce ideas off Jeff. He cri­overlap. Beneficial from a sci­
tiques stuff that I do," Crislyn entific viewpoint, we can relysaid. on each other's expertise," he Similarly, Jeff is quick to said. notes the perks of his wife's "Having Jeff as a scientist is 

great. He's my biggest support­standing spouse in the same er and has made things much field. more fun," she said. "He's been "The long hours, the high such a source of' strength and pressure, manuscript writing support." time and grant time -it's diffi-
The Schoreys both agree that it truly helps to have an under-
see COUPLE/page 4 

================================================================================================================================== 
Committee

Garces explores Pinochet trial issues 
. Victims' lawyer descibes international effort for justice 
By HELENA RAYAM 
News Writer 

.Juan Garces. a close advisor to a !'ormf'r socialist president of Chile, Salvador Allende. confronted tbe international aspPct of General Augusto Pinochet's regime during a lecture Wednesday. 
"Because Pinochet's pcrsc-See Also cution (If thou­

"Court debates
sands of Chileans are Pinochet case" crimes against 
page9
humanity. coun­tries other than Chilu arc justilicd in seeking legal retribution, but Pinochet should not b<' able to escape through the loop­hole of diplomatic immunity," said Garces who is the Spanish prosecu­tion lav\-yer for the Pinochet case. 
As a prosecutor, Garces repre­Sl"nts those who fell victim to Pinochet's military force, which included torture. Spain is among at least eight other countries that are investigating the Pinochet case. The countries include England, France, Belgium. Switzerland, Italy, The United States, Argentina and Chile. 
"For the first time, it's the public opening their eyes to the civil injus­tice of these crimes [and ignoring) the immunity that Pinochet granted to himself," Garces said. 
"My main challenge is Ito discov­er] how to make real the imple­mentation of international norms of an int(irnatimrn.1 criminal, prevent­ing the interference of political interests and ensuring that the courts of justice can act in an inde­pendent and professional way,'' said Garces. 
The collaboration of various nations on the investigation of Pinochet would reveal more con­crete evidence that Pinochet com­mitted crimes against humanity, Garces said. He added that because no court has reached a conviction or a final sentence, double jeopardy is not a possibility, thus enabling tlrn different countries to continue investigations and charges. 
see PINOCHET/page 4 



looks to foster academic life 
By ERIN PIROUTEK Associate News Editor 
For most Notre Dame students, academic life does not end when class dor,s_ But should Notre Dame do more to foster the relationship between academics and stu­
. dent life? Recent issues. 
specifically when the Women's Hesource Center (WRC) was put on probation. have led to questions rngarding the relationship between academic and student life at 
Notre Dame. 
The Ad lloc Committee on Academics and Student Life has recommended the creation of a new advisory council which will integrate acad­emic and student affairs issues, possibly replacing the Campus Life Council (Cl.C.) 

see COMMITTEE/page 6 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, April 27, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Ode to JP 
"Now Kelly, be nice to your little brother ­no matter what happens or where you live he'll always be your greatest friend." 
I rolled my eyes during each lecture. but my mother's words of wisdom still continue to echo in my head. 
As kids. 1 tortured my 
Kelly Hager
brother. WhPn Grandma 
bought me my first {and 
only) make-up set, Justin 
received his first Copy Editor 
makeover. When Santa 
brought darts, Justin's 
forehead paid the price. 
That was our relationship: Kelly ruled all. 
It's not like I didn't loye him -I have always been protective of him. I remember when he burst into my bedroom in his Superman (com­plete with Velcro cape) pajamas and exclaimed, "I am Superman! I can fly out the window to the garage!" And I sveltely saved his life by blocking tho window and replying, "Oh No, Justin, You can't fly to the garage -but you can fly through the wall." Which he did, and has the scar to prove. 
But now, things are different. He has had many identity crisis' in the past; from insisting everyone call him Dorothy at age four, to Annie at five. to Superman at six, to Hulk Hogan at age seven and Batman at eight. Now, without me around the house, Justin has found Justin. and is happy. 
His Fisher Price super coop has long since been abandoned; Sesame Street lingo has been replaced with lyrics to the "Thong Song". His voice has changed. and he is beginning to grow facial hair. Worst of all, girls are calling my house -for him. 
At age 17, my brother, who stands a tower­ing 6-foot-2, has turned into a macho man ­truck stereo and all. Still somehow, despite his alarming size and stature, he will always be my little brother. 
This week, my first Easter away from home, the Easter Bunny delivered the biggest Easter egg of all time to my front door -my brother. 
When met at the dorm entrance by his totally bald big sister, he didn't even flinch. Instead, he hugged me like only Justin could hug me: Squeeze, two feet lift, lift, lift, drop. 
During the days we spent together, I noticed not only JP's growing maturity, but also our love growing stronger. Looking back through all the years -through tragedy, illness, school time and playtime, Justin has always been there for me. Even after convincing him to eat mud or making fun of him, he always got back up and continued to love me. Through every­thing, JP has shown unconditional love, a true test of our friendship. And although he is no longer physically my little brother, he will always be my little brother in my heart. 
While running around campus towards the end of his visit, we decided to take some pic­tures of us together at Notre Dame for our par­ents. Handing the camera to a passer-by, Justin pulled me close and smiled. Then, after looking up for a second, scooted me over a cou­ple inches. and commented, "Kelly, stand right here. That way, we can get you, me, and the reflection of the dome off your head in the pic­ture." 
While the person taking the picture remained speechless out of disbelief, I smiled and smacked him -forgave him quickly and hugged him. 
I didn't grow angry. I could never grow angry with him. 
Why? 
I guess my mom was right all along. 
Me and my brother are best friends. 
The viPu•s expressed in the Inside Column are those of lhe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Erin LaRuffa Mau Nania Kelly Hager Graphics 
Courcney Boyle Jose Cuell.ar Sports Production Kevin Berchou Lauren Berrigan Viewpoint Lab Tech AJ Rovd Tony floyd 
The Oh«rvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday chrnugh F,iday except during ex.un and vaciilrion. periods. The Ob-~ecvt:r i:i. a m~mU!":1 of the A.-.sociared Pra~. All reproduction rights are reserved, 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday  Friday  
. Event: Humor Artists;  .Event : Notre Dame  
8 p.m.; Library Auditorium  Opera presents "Hansel  
. Event: Student Dance  and Grntel;" 7:30 p.m.;  
Her.ital; 7:30 p.m.; Little  Washington Hall  
Thoater, Saint \1ary's  . Event: Martial Arts  
College  Lecture; 3:30 to 5:30 p.m.;  
Room 117. DeBartolo  


Saturday  Sunday  
. Event: Dessert Tasting;  . Event: African Dance  
10 a.m. to 1 p.m.; Hammes  and Drum Workshop; 2 to  
Bookstore  5 p.m.; LaFortune  
. Event: Chili Cookoff and  
BluPgrass Musk Festival;  
8 to 11 p.m.; North Quad  
and Fieldhouse Mall  

Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 

West Chester to offer Holocaust degree 
WEST CHESTER, Pa. 
West ChestPr University will be the first University in America to offer a Holocaust studies master's degree program. Aftor nine years of prepa­ration. the State System of Higher Edur.ation approved the program last week for initiation in the fall, The master of the arts degree in holocaust/genocide studies was developed by history professor Irene Shur, a specialist in the study of the holocaust. Shur has spent nearly a decade defining the program and finding appropriate faculty. 
"Nine years we have been working on this and putting the right faculty together," Shur said. 
University president Madeleine Adler, dean of Graduate Studies Garv Knock and dean of the School of Arts and Sciences Dave Buchanan traveled to Harrisburg last week to 
"Believe me. it did happen and people must know the truth" 
Irene Shur history professor West Chester University 
present the scope and rationale of the degree program to the Board of Governor's committee. 
Students will study evidence of the Ilolocaust and examine the reasons behind the events that defined much of the 20th century. Shur has spent 20 years teaching undergraduate and graduate Holocaust classes, seminars and conferences as well as organizing several overseas pro­grams. Within this same period, she has had 11 books published. 

"In Answer," published in 1988, refutes revisionist theories that the Holocaust did not occur. 
"Relieve me, it did happen and people must know the truth,'' Shur said. 
In the last 10 years, schools across the country have begun to show an interest in Holocaust and genocide studies. Five states currently require classes about the I lolocaust in their secondary schools, whih! seven rec­ommend it. 
"We will be the first university in the country, and as far as I know. the first in the world to offer a degree in this field," Shur said. 
Because this is a very sensitive subject, a seminar will be conducted to train teachers in the field. 
Brown ACLU pushes for reform 
PHOVIDENCE, IU. 
With the recent outcry over controversial disciplinary cases on campus, the Brown Chapter of the American Civil Liberties Cnion (ACLU) is pushing University administration· to consider its reform proposal for the University Disciplinary Council (UDC). Since UDC's cre­ation in 1990, the ACLU has submitted at least three proposals to the administration, resulting in limited changes to the UDC process. The ACLU gained support for its latest UDC reform effort through a petition circu­lated last week. More than 375 students gave their sig­natures, according to ACLU president, Samantha Musher. The petition, which asks for student support in improving UDC, is now accessible at the ACLU Web site. "In previous years, there hasn't peen much interest in the disciplinary system at Brown but now the student body seems very intcrnsted," said Musher. She added that within the next two weeks the ACLU will present its proposal to members of the administration, stating clear and specific sentencing guidelines which affirm the principle that the nature of the crime, not the vic­tim's graduation date, should guide sentencing. 

S. Miss debates co-ed dorms 
HATTIESBURG, Miss. 

Some University of Southern Mississippi students disagree over whether or not colleges should have co­ed dormitories. Males and females living together is a regular part of college life in institutes such as Yale University in Connecticut and Haverford College in Pennsylvania. The Associated Press reported that the co-ed phenomena is partly in response to requests from homosexual students who say they often have trouble finding roommates of the same sex. Lorinda Krhut, director of residence life, said USM will not have co-ed dorms any time soon. Krhut said the lnstitute of Higher Learning enforces a policy against­co-ed dorms that covers all Mississippi colleges. "If there were going to be any allowance of this kind of facility, the IHL board would have to approve it," she said. Shakeshia Dean, a senior child and family rela­tions major, said even though college students should have the right to make their own decisions, they should not be allowed to live in co-ed dorms. "I think our current policy is enough," she said. "If you need to entertain your guest after midnight, go to a hotel." 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperature., 
.,-····--·__.,,,.···
/~-....,,.~...-,.,, 
H L 
t 
Thursday ~ 70 41 Friday ~ 62 42 Saturday ~ 62 45 Sunday ~... 67 49 Mon,day cl 67 47 
:" A •. ,•• 


j..•., 

Allanta 72 54 Las Vegas 96 72 Portland 61 45 Baltimore 58 46 Memphis 76 54 Sacramento 72 47 Boston 43 40 Milwaukee 62 44 St. Louis 65 48
Q,Q,~q'S}.Q ~ ~ 6 

Chicago 69 45 New York 53 46 Tampa 78 54
ShOwers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pr. Cloudy Cloudy 

Houston 86 82 Philadelphia 67 48 Wash DC 59 47
Via AssocialfJd Pres.5 Graplw;sNet 
---------~-----------------­

Thursday, April 27, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SOUTH QUAD SALUTE 
Members of the Reserved Officer Training Corps (ROTC) (above) salute Air Force F-16s flying overhead as part of for the Presidential Pass in Review, an annual ROTC event at the University. Father Malloy was the guest of honor. During the cere• monies. ROTC student officers from all of the branches of the military (left) receive awards for good conduct. 
SHANNON BENNET/The Observer 

American Schoo·1s of Professional Psychology 
Changingthe Face orPsychology 

"J cho.1e ISPP hecau.,e it bad a .Jmall dcbool atmo.1pbere aniJ it ba.1 the type ofprogram that I wad looking for. Being able to tran.1ition from the Ma<1ter.1 
program to tbe Doctoral wad a definite plu.,/" 
-Diana M. Bonifas Illinois School of Professional Psychology Student 
From private practice to corporations, from counseling 
centers to board rooms, today's psychologists and 
professional counselors are finding endless opportunities 
waiting for them. 
Graduate Programs Offered... 
• 
APA Accredited Doctorate in Clinical Psychology (Psy.D.) 

• 
Clinical Psychology (M.A.) 

• 
Counseling Psychology (M.A.) 

• 
Health Services Administration (M.S.) 

• 
Postdoctoral Respecialization Programs 


Illinois School of Professional Psychology 
Chicago Campus 
Two First National Plaza, 20 S. Clark St., Third Floor, Chicago, IL 60603 
1-888-488-7537 
www.aspp.edu or visit our on-line campus at http://argosy.aspp.edu 
got news? 1-5323. 

Scholar to speak about women and the Church 
Editor's Note: This is the sec· from Lafayette College and ond of a three-part series on Saint Bernard's Institute . Convergence. the conference Among her areas of special held this weekend at Saint interest are the Gospel of St. Mary's. .John, feminist theory, Christian mythical tradition, methodology in the study of
By NELLIE WILLIAMS News Writer spirituality and biblical spiri­tuality. Schneider has also l'ound time for international 
Fourteen years ago. when 

studv and travel. 
to

Sandra Schneider came Tl{is Saturday, SchneidPr 
Saint Mary's College tu give a 

will present. "With Oil in Their 
biblical interpretation lecture 

Lamps Faith, Feminism, and 
for the Madeleva Lectures in 

the Future." She will be 
Spirituality, she had no idoa 

speaking about the emergence
sho would one day be back at 

of women in the past century
the College to give the series' 

and its effects on the future of 
16th lecture. 

American culture. 
"It wasn't foreseen that any• 

"My concern is the belief 
one would give [a lecturel 

that women have an impact in 
twice," said Schneider, cur· 

the culture," Schneider said. 
rently a profflssor of New 

Her lecture will also cover 
Testament Studies and 

the effects of women's reli· 
Spirituality at the Jesuit School 

gious life on the Church. The 
of Theology at Berkeley. 

discussion will encompass the 
Keith Egan, director of the 

effect of feminism on the cul• 
Center for SpiritualHy at Saint 

ture of the 20th century
Mary's, said Schnieder's lec­

America, the effect of femi­
ture this Saturday will be 

nism on the church and how 
about offering hope to women 

the past impacts the future. 
in the new millennium. 

Though Christians may seem 
"Her [past] lecture was so 

fragmented from the world and 
outstanding and drew much 

tempted beyond their abilities,
attention," 
there is still 
Egan said in 

hope in the regards to why ''I'm trying to say, if end, she 
Schnieder was 
said. She

Catholic women become
asked to 
added that 

return to pre· truly committed to gospel 
s h e sent this Ice· feminism, that can have believes 
ture. 

a major impact in h u m a n 
In addition 
beings 

to being affili · the culture." 
need to ated with 
cooperate 
numerous bib­with the

Sandra Schneider 
lical and theo­
power of

Berkeley professor
1ogical com­the Savior 
mittees, 
and go into 
Schneider has the world 
taught in various elementary 

with energy and light from 
and high schools, as well as their lamps.

having held many editorial 

"I'm trying to say. if Catholic 
positions and published 

women become truly commit­
numerous books, articles, 

ted to gospel feminism, that 
reviews and tapes. 

can have a major impact in the Schneider received an hon­culture," Schneider said. 
orary degree from Saint 

Fifteen other women scholars 
Mary's in 1998. She has also are involved in this weekend's 

received honorary degrees 

lecture series. 
r fe\t so ,,
''l'-ve ne-ve . ab\e.
and cap 

strong 

Helping others was a family tradition for Amy Zaleska, of Massachusetts. So after getting her master's degree, she signed up for a year of service with AmeriCorps. She moved across the country to coordinate a hunger program in California, where she developed new skills and decided to pursue a career in nonprofit management. "My project affected so many people," Amy says. 

"Now I know that one person really can make a difference." 
For more information. contact Courtney Nicholas at (312) 353-0574 or E-mail: cnicholas@ens.gov 
AmeriCorps:Are you up to the challenge? 
1-800-942-~677 www.americorps.org/joining 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 27, 2000 
Pinochet 
continued from page l 
Although, Garces supports the extradition. investigation anrl prosecution of Pinochet. he said that tribunals should nut focus on punishrmmt, but recognize their capacity to bring about responsibility for a perpetrator's actions. 
"[The] Pinochet trial. in Spa.in and London have improved soci­
ety," said Garces. 
Chileans who have suf­feri~d under Pinochet's dic­tatorship have found a safo haven· in 
m a 11 y European countries. especially Spain, which was "the first to be open to hear about 
"For the first lime, it's the 
Europeanpublic opening their eyes slates, former 
to the civil injustice of heads of state 
can be prose­
these crimes I and 
cuted againstignoring/ the immunity crimes 
that Pinochet against 
humanitv
granted to himse(f" 
W i t h O ll "t immunity. In Juan Garcas crimes against
Pinochet prosecutor 
these crimes,·· according tu GarcPs 
"Victims of torture, murder and disappearances have comn massively to Spain," said Garcf's. 
Seventy to 80 percent of the Chilean population favoff~d hav­ing the trial conducted in Spain, said Garces. However, Pinochet is currently in Chile where the nation will begin hearings within a few days. 
"Both [Spain and Chile] have had positive social and civil con­sequences because public opin­ion has become awarn that crimes against humanity have been committed." Garces said. 
C.hileans should not allow Pinochet to assume that his crimes are not punishable 
LOW 
student 
Airfares 
Europe •Africa Asia •South America 
More Than 100 Departure Cities! 
Eurailpasses Bus Passes Study Abroad 
IC:•student umverse
•cont 
IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT. 
StudentUniverse.com 
800-272-9676 
T-<ecycle 
The 
Obsefl'Vef!'. 
because Pinochet's self-appoint­ment as a Chilean senator for life, Garccs said. 
Ile compared Pinochet's dicta­torship to the Third Reich in Germany when "impunity became institutionalized." 
"No 01rn c:rn assume to be rl'p­resenting humankind or subject to arnnP,sty," said Garces. 
Due to European involvement in the Chilean ox-dictator's trial, Garces said I.hat justice would prevail because Pinochet's crimi­nal actions will be uncovi;rod 
through the 
legal process. 
" I n 


national law, 
extradition 
. can be grant­ed in the country, even if the crimes haven't been committed in those specific crimes," Garces said. 
Even with heavy international involvement, Garces said that Chile is making strides in their legal system so that Pinochet's actions, which were legal in the past, are still questionable in the courts. 
"Chilean courts are changing their doctrine by recognizing that the disappearance of a per­son is a permanent offense until the body is found," said Garces. "The Supreme Court has recog­nized that assassinating and tor­ture are not part of the military procedure and falls under civil courts, not military courts." 
Couple 
continued from page 1 
cult," she said. "Ile uuder­stanrls tlrn pressures involved because he's in the same pro­fession." 
Although research demands a lot of time and stress, the Schoreys are very excited ab(mt being at Notre Dame. 
"It's been an enjoyable expe­rience," JefT said. 
"It's great! We're two assis­tant professors," said Crislyn. "It's nice to have your own lab, but have someone else to 

Great Opportunity for anyone living in the South Bend/Granger area this summer 
Help out a child with Special Needs! Many families are seeking volunteers for the sun1mer. 
Flexible hours to fit your schedule. For more information, please call Jessica Hauser at 634-2856 or Kim Lawton at 675-9554 

talk to is great. And know that he's on your sidP-." 
Both Jeff and Crislyn applied for positions at univtHSities across the country b11fore deciding to come to Notre Uame. 
"Coming to Notre Dame has been wonderful because we're both Catholic," said Crislyn. The couple also wanted to stay close to l'amily in the Midwest. 
The Schoreys have been very fortunate because both have been very successful, they said. One-and-a-half years into her post-doctorate, Crislyn's manuscript was pub­lished in the Journal of Science, and Jeffs manuscript was publislrnd a co11ple of' years later. 
"Looking at other f'ritrnds, couples usually have onP suc­cessful person while the other strugglos, but we are both very fortunate," she said. "We were very fortunate thing materialized well fo.r us. We were lucky." 
After arriving at Notre Dame for the fall of 1998, the couple is still very enthusiastic about research opportunities at Notre Dame. Although they have not worked together, Crislyn said they will probably collaborate in the future. 
Tbu..days oPe -students night. Students Peceive 25% off meal prke wif~ 1.fOUP sfuJent I.D. 

Michian<a's. rnosf unique chninq e,r.pe•i~nce Locof~J in flte b-•"lf at tLe Hisfof>ic l 00 C.nfer in Misl.awa~o (219) 257-1792 www.l00cenfer.com 
Admissions Calendar 2000-01 
June 15  Last day to apply for Fall 2000  
May 19  First day of Summer Sessions  
July 18  Last day of Summer Sessions  
August 28  First day of Fall Session  

For funhcr i11tonnc1tion, visil our Web page. 
LOYOLA 
M.S.W. Admissions: 

UNIVERSITY Jude Gonzales 
~ 1·,~ 

s: ;;i CHICAGO 
at 312.915.7289 

~+e .~ Graduate School 
E-mail: jgonza@luc.edu 

"1, ,;,'i,~ of Social Work 
-----------·--· .. ----· -----------· ·---------------------­

ffiUl 
ii 
.
' 


Thursday, April 27, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Hackers hit Russian gas company 
MOSCOW 

Gazprom, Hus.,ia's huge stain-run gas monopoly. was one of a growing number of targets hit by computer hackers last year. a law Pnf'orcPment ot'fieial said WPdnesday. Aeling wilh a Gazprom insider, hackers were able lo gPl past lhP company's security and break into tho system controlling gas flows in pipeli11c>s, Jntorior Ministry Col. Konstantin i\farhabeli said. ac1'.ording to the lnterfax news uiv~ncy. The central switchboard of gas llows was "for some time" under Urn control ol' external users, Machabnli said in tlw report. !le did not say if the hu.ckers caused any damagP. c;azprom officials could not be !'!\ached for comment. 
Nuclear power aids Israel 
UNrTED NATIONS 

Syria accused nuclear weapons states Wt>dnesday of denying the rest of the world acc1-1ss to peaceful nurlrar technology while helping Israel build up its nuclear arsenal. Tim comments by Syria's U.N. ambassador, l'vlikhail Wehbn, appeared to be a swipe at the Lnited States, which maintains tight export controls on its nucltmr technology but signed an agreenwnt with Israel in February allow­ing it access to some types of "nonsensitive" 
U.S. nuclear technology. Wehbe.said Israel's nuclear capability threatened security in the whole Middle East, where Israel is the o.nly rountry that hasn't committed itself to the !\ludear Nonproliferation Treaty. "Until when will nuclear statPs continue to defend Israel?" \VPhbe askPd a confonmce reviPwing imple­nrnntation of the treaty. · 
Hillary Clinton accepts debate offers 
SllELDOl\i, N.Y. 

Hillary Hodham Clinton on Wedrrnsday called for tax chang,is to help k11cp family farms in the family and acrPpted 1wo offers lo debate her St'natc rival, Nc,v York City '.Vlayor Rudolph (;iuliani. Clinton stoppod at a more than l 00­y,,ar-old dairy farm and called for inrreasing tlm estate tax exemption for family businesses to$] .75 million. It now is $600,000. "You ought Lo be able to leave your land and the bulk of your forturrns to your children and not to the gnv,,rnment." slw told more than 100 people at tlw farm 35 miles cast of Buffalo. Also Wednesday, Clinton said she had accepted invi­tations for two televised debates with Giuliani in tlm fall. But the firsl lady did not commit lo a third proposPd debate. Clinton and Giuliani have be(m invitPd by New York's Independence !'arty to a forum Saturday in Buffalo. 
••UiilWliitttliWkJI
Dow AMEx: 
896.43 JONES ·• 0·39 -179.32 Nasdaq: 

3630.09 

-81.1.J 
!'liYSE 
654.31 -446 Composite
S&P 500: 
Volume:
•
1460.99
10945.50 999,649,984
-16.45 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COl<PA!IY l;l~liH li s;Ulti!il i !.IAWi' l:BISi.1 HJCJI0.90!1"1' COJI.P Hsr,o -l., 98 -J.J?50 ,a.oo CISCO STSTD1S C!:iCO +)..14. •0.7500 66, 75 C'~NP~Q C!'.!MPUT'!'R c•Q -!.31 -1.0000 29. 25 J1)S UN'IPMSJ: .1t)SU -1..U -1. 3125 92 .oo AMGEN rNc AMGN +5 .4.1 -,.J, i37!i 57 • .25 NASDAQ 100 SKAR QOQ -'3 .,1 -3.0&Btl g;. 38 OJlACt.B CORP Q'ftC.t. -1.U -3.3725 7:i,1' Url'I'EL CORP Itn'C ~ l.35 -4.l.900 llO.Sl DR.ltOOP .COM INC XOOP +53 .18 .. 1.2&63 l. 59 SON MICRO:SYSttlt SUM< -&.'1 -•-uoo 8','5,S 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
SPAIN 

Court sentences five ex-officers 
Associated Pres-~ MADRID The National Court sen­tenced five former securi­ty force members to more than 65 vears each for their part in the torture and murder of two sus­pected Rasquri scpa• ratists, defense lawyers said Wedncsdav. The sentences ended the second Su-called 'dirty war' trial and added weight to allcga tions that a dirty war sponsored by the form er Socialist gov­ernments of Felipe Gonzalez wa·s waged in the early 1980s against suspected Basque sepa­ratists and sympathizPrs. Gonzalez has consistent­ly denied that his govern­ment was involved in any such war, though the first 'dirty war· trial two years ago convicted one of Gonzalez' former minis­ters and several ex-secu­rity officials. The Socialist party said in a statement that the guilty verdict showed that the actions of the death squads were never pro­moted by the government of Gonzalez. Lawyers for the accused in the latest case were informed Wednesday that the three-judge tribunal had sentenced Gen. Enrique Rodriguez Galindo and Julen Elgurriaba, former repre­sentative of the Interior 

pay $138,000 to each of southern French town of the neighboring country,
Ministry in the Basque 

the victims' families. Bayonne. according to declassified
region, to 71 years each 

None of the five ETA, which has been Spanish military intelli­
for kidnapping and killing 

appeared in court for the blamed for the deaths of gence documents.
the two men. 

sentencing, state-run Efe nearly 800 people in its Lasa and Zabala were
Ex-Civil Guard member 

news agency reported. 32-year drive for Basque driven across the border
Angel Vaquero was given 

Jose Antonio Lasa and independence. was partic­into the Spanish Basque
69 years in jail, and for­

Jose Ignacio Zabala -ularly active at that time. area, where they were
mer security force mem• 

· two young men suspected The group used south­tortured for several days.
hers Felipe Bayo and 

of belonging to the armed ern France as a hide out, They were each killed
Enrique Dorado were 

Basque separatist group, and Spanish security with a gunshot to the
each given 67 years on 

ETA -were abducted forces retaliated by stag­head.
the same charges. 

Oct. 15, 1983, in the ing kidnapping raids .in
All five were ordered to 


Columbine tapes available for public 
Associated P cess GOLDEN, Co. Large pools of blood soak into beige carpet. marked by yellow paper cards bearing victims· names. Calculators and pencils lil~ next to open bt';oks on tables. A computer monitor sits blown to bits. To the horror of Columbine victims' families, authorities released video­tapes \Vndnesday that offer the public the first glimpse of the high school's library at least a day after two stu­dents killed 12 schoolmates and a teacher before committing suicide on April 20, 1999. Ten of those students and the gunmen diPd in the library. Authorities charged $25 for each tape. The nearly three-hour tape, part of it set eerily to a pop music sound­track that was added when it was turned into a training video, was mostly shot by firefighters. It also 
includes aerial footage taken by TV news teams that showed wounded and two slain students outside Columbine. 
"For the first time today, I saw my daughter being dragged over to the fire engine. [ don't need to see that and nobodv else needs to see that," said an angry Reth Nimmo, mother of slain student Rachel Scott. 
"It's something you'd see on a gory music video," said Nimmo, her voice choked with anguish. 
"It hurts. They have pictures from the helicopter of dragging Richard by his feet," said Connie Michalik, whose son, Richard Castaldo, was shot outside the school and left para­lvzed. 
· Jefferson County Attorney Frank Hutlless released the videotapes to the victims' families Tuesday to comply with a court order. Ile said he then released them to anyone who asked-for them "to avoid addi­

tional lawsuits by the public or news 
media." 
With Sarah McLachlan's "I Will 
Remember You" playing in the 
background, the vide-o, taken by 
firefighters, enters the library 
through open doors, flanked by win­
dows that had been shattered by 
gunfire. 
It shows books pulled to the floor. Chairs arP askew, ~ts if pushed out of the way hurriedly. Bullets have shattered windows and punctured .walls. A window blind is still jum­bled from the hurried escape of one 
student. 
But it is thP pools of blood on 
desks and on the earth-tone carpet­
ed floor that most captures the eye. 
Folded yellow cards are carefully 
placed near the stains to mark the 
names of Lauren Townsend, Daniel 
Mauser, Corey DePooter and other 
victims. Numbered cards mark 
pieces of evidence. 


page 6 
Library theft teaches hard lesson 
By BRIAN HOBBINS 
News Wrirer 
A yellow warning sign emblazoned with the mes­sage, "While you are grab­bing a snack, somebody else mi'ght be grabbing your stuff. Don't leave your book bag or computer unattended," can be found throughout the floors or Hesburgh Library. 
1\1 ·o s t people 
dismiss "When I got out of the probably 
the advicn six feet
elevator on the 12th floor

with a tall with 
scoff, I saw this guy rush onto brown 
counting the elevator. I didn't hair and on their facial
think anything ofit and I

f Cl IO w h a i r . " 
stud-0nts didn't realize that my s a i d to watch wallet was gone until I Bryant. over their "Ile didn't
came home at seuen 

s t u f f wait for 
while they that night." 
me to get get a off the book. use elevator;
Christine Bryant

the bath­ho walked
freshman 

room or socialize with a friend. 
For freshman Christine Hryant, ignoring the warn­ing signs was a S120 mis­take. 
"When I reported the theft, people said, 'Didn't vou see the signs'?'" she said. 
Bryant's wallet was stolen from her backpack while studying on the 12th floor of the library over spring break. 
"During that spring break week, that is probably the worst time to leave things up there. My stuff was more likelv stolen because it wasn't during the school session, it was during break," Bryant said. 
While Bryant went down­stairs to make copy of a practice calculus test, someone stole her wallet. from her backpack 
"I was gone for like 30 minutes," Bryant said. Iler absence was enough time for a thief to act. 
"When I got out of the 
PERFORMED IN ENGLISH 
FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 2000 SATURDAY APRIL 29 2000 
' ' 

7:30 PM, WASHINGTON HALL 
elevator cm the 12th f1oor I saw this guy rush onto the elPvator. l didn't think any­thing of it and I didn't real­ize that my wallet was gone until I came home at seven that night," she said. 
Upon realizing her wallet had been taken, Bryant called Notre Dame Security Police to file a report. 
Security took a descrip­tion from Brvant. 
"lie had a ·11at on. Ile was 
a white 
ma I e. 
right in. I 
d  o n  '  t  
think  he  
was a student."  

The description is now one of several that Notre Dame Security has on file. With an average of over 400 thefts across campus annually. Security Director Rex Rakow admits that theft is the University's biggest crime problem, 
"Other people's wallets have been stolen and they had a few descriptions already," said Rakow. 
Security found Bryant's wallet five days later, but the money it contained had been removed. The wallet of another female student was found on a library shelf. 
Bryant said she has learned a hard lesson from her experience and hopes people will heed the library's warning signs in the future. 
"Leaving your things is very risky," Bryant said. "Listen to tho signs because peop,!e really take your stuff. 
TICKIT.S ARE AVAILABLE AT iHE LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE 019) 631-8128 , . .:-,.:. ~ PLEASE CALL (219) 631-6201 OR VISIT WWWNDlOU/-MUSIC FOR MORE INFOPM/,TION. 

L--'----·---·~•--_ ____.______L____.l__ 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 27, 2000 
Colllmittee 
continued from page 1 
"Not only is the Ol'lice of Student Affairs independent from the Of'lic!l of Lim Provost, 1.iut them am no University structures aimed at examining issues that cross the jurisdictional lim's of the two offices," states the Ad Hoc Committee's report to Urn Academic: Council. The roport notes that although f'ar,ulty and Student Affairs have differnnt responsibilities, they both involve education of the same students. 
"The responsibilitins, thcro­f'ore, interlock and should com­plt>mcn1 each other," said the report. 
"We tried to conrn up with an ideal vision, if integrated, how academic and student life would be," said Michael Palumbo, the studr~nt representative on thn Ad lloc Committne. 
The rnport recommends the creation of an advisory council charged with tho integration 
of'  academic  "We tried to come up  ters  and  
and  student  with an ideal vision,  othnr  mat­ 
lifo. The coun­cil would advise all offi­ ifintegrated, how academic and  ters," states the report. It recommends  
cers  of  the  student life would be."  that Lhc  new  
University, but principaliy tlrn president. the provost and the vice president  Michael Palumbo fonner student body vice-president  advisory council encourage faculty, with or without  
for  student  families,  to  

affairs. The majority of' members live in residence and that depart­would be elected, with equal rep­
ments should host more events resentation from faculty, stu­-academic and non-academic dents and Studont Affairs per­-aimed at both faculty and 
sonnel. undergraduates. Additionally tho "Hight now evorything's pretty 
report also calls for more intc­divided. There ought to be some­gration of social space with thing to bridge the gaps that classroom and office space in there are," said vice president both new and existing buildings. and associate provost Carol The report was presented to 
Mooney, the report chair. the Academic Council on April 18 If the advisorv council is imple­and at this time it is unclear if or mented, its jurisdiction may how tho council will act on the 
overlap with the Campus Life report.Council {CLC.) "I think the chance of some-

Committee Members 
think it's• 

. John Cavadini, chairman of the Theology Department
possible that it 

. M.L Gude, assistant vice president, Student Affairs 
might 

. David Kirkner, civil engineering and geological sciences
replace t h o 

. David Lodge, biolo(Jical sciences professor 
C L C , " 

. Naomi Meara, psychology professor
s a i d Mooney. 

. carol Mooney, chair, vice president and assistant provost 
T h C 

. Michael Palumbo, former student body vice-president 
report 

. Pat Thomas, rector, Walsh Hall
does not 

. Barbara Walvoord, director of the Kanab Centerm a k e 
any spe­

. Carolyn Woo, dean of the College of Business Administration
cific rec­
omm e 11­elations about tlrn futurn or thn CLC. 
"We didn't think that w,1s our judgement call to makn as a committee," said Mooney. 
The report also calls for mea­sures to f'acilitato studont-pro­fessor inl.nraction. 
"Our interviews with Notrn Dame students ... clParly indi­cate that they want clos«or rela­tionships with faculty and more opportunities to interact with them outside the classroom on 
both class­related mat­
thing likn [tlw advisory counl'.il I being implementnd is very strong," said Mooney, adding that it may takn awhile. 
"It started with a seriPs of res­olutions that came from the Faculty SenatP n~garding tho Woman's Resource Center." 
Tlw Office of Student Activities placed the Woman's Hosourc!' Center on probation al thn end of the spring 1998 senrnstPr. A S(,n­ate rnsolution expressml concern that tho probation had a negative effect on responsible student debatn. 
"The intrusion upon Urn pur­suit of the academic mission of' the University can only be avoid­ed if the vice president for Studnnt Affairs and the provost of the University cooperate more closely in the futun1," said the resolution. It called for a clarifi­cation of' responsibilities of tlrn vice president of Student Affairs in reporting to the provost. 
At the April 19, 1999 meeting, the Academic Council recom­mended that University president Edward Malloy establish an Ad 1-loc Committee with University­wide representation to explore the relationship between acade­mic and student lifo. 
To gather information, the 10­person committee interviewed 22 people for groups, including rec­tors. administrators, Student Senate and the Campus Lifn Council, as well as held two forums open to the entire cam­pus community. 



QueNch vour thiRst for Knowleoge onLine at Versitv.com Lecrure notEs . Novel notEs . exAm prepararion amonG otHer mourh wAteRing acadeMic rreats -always (1440.365) open-

Where to go when you need to know.™ 
, : 
S3 STUDENTS AND SENIOR CITIZENS t $6GENERALADMISSION(RE5ERVEOSEATINGJ -~ 

Thursday, April 27, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
STUDENT SENATE 
O'Donoghue highlights Student Union strengths, weaknesses 
of the Student Union is every single person who has one knows about it, did we approved the 2000-2001 Club
. Student body 
strong,"' O'Donoghue said. taken a position of service to ever accomplish it at all?" Coordination Council budget.president suggests "Well, I guess I am going to the students. They, and you, O'Donoghmi added. . John Osborn, Mark improving have to break with that tradi­can do remarkable things," Ile also encouraged the sen­Donahey and Mike Heinz pre­
t i o n O'Donoghue said. ate to remember that their sented the executive summary
communication 
tonight. l O'Donoghue stressed two main purpose is to serve the for the Board of Trustees 
will not major points of his platform: students. report calling for more stu­By LAURA ROMPF stand here building community and com­"And most importantly, we dent repn~sentation in Assisra111 News Editor and say municating with the students must never forget to serve the University governance. 
that every­themselves. students. They are, after all, . The sPnate approved pos­

Student government can do thing is "We must, as student lead­why we arc hem," he said 
sible topics for next fall's 
much more to improve life al perfect." ers, build community over all O'Donoghue concluded his Board of Trustees report.the lJnivMsity, said Brian While divcrsitv -speech Topics are tuition and finan­O'Donoghue, student body improve­be t·hey with a cial aid with the possibility of 
presidnnt, as he audressed the ments are economic, "We need to reach beyond the contradic· merit based scholarships; the Student Senate last night with necessary, religious or tion to his
walls ofLaFortune to educate rector endowment fund that 
his State of the Student Union many people involved with multicul­opening. will aid students with various
students to the opportllnities 

address. student government have the tural "As so, I expenses; more social space
while sti.11 which we work so hard t;o

"For the past two years I ability to rnakfl changes, I o o k and the possibility of a new lrnvP sat when~ you sit now O'Donoghue said. rejoicing in provide them with. " around student center; and finally,and have heard every student "This is not to say that the the individ-this room. any topic the Hoard of' body president make the same student union is in poor condi­ual gifts and I Trustees suggests to the stu­
statement year after year. tion; for it is not. I personally God has Brian O'Donoghue realize dents. They all have said: 'The State have the utmost confidence in granted to student body president ma vb e 


Clearance Sale • April 28 & 29 at the Logan Center 
Tackle the Bargains! Come to the Blue-Gold Game and take advantage of reduced prices on Notre Dame Fipting lr11h licensed merchandise. 
Logan 
Center 



. The senate unanimously
each of us," those· past 

approved two amendments
he said. 
presi­

and two bylaws to the consti­
"We need to rnach beyond dents were right: the state of' 

tution. The bylaws added a
the walls of Lafortune to edu­the student union is strong, steering committee and desig­cate students to all the oppor­and its future and so much 
nated chairpersons to commit­
tunities which we work so 
more arc in your hands," he 

tees while the amendments
hard to provide them with. If' said. 

removed a duplicate sentence we accomplish something wor­
In other senate news; and changed the allotted com­
thy to be remembered and no 

. The senate unanimously mittee formation period. 


Sponr'.:lred by 

THE 8TANDINCI CCIMMITT•a ON GAY AJID LEl ¦IAN 
¦TU-,n N¦&Da 
Sexual Identity' and the Workplace 
Thursday, April 27, 2000 
7:30 p.m. Hesburgh Ubrary Lounge 
Refreshments will be served 
Peter Hawkins is a noted Dante scholar. He is currently a profes­so,-of Religicn And literature at Yale Divirity School. A graduate of the Uni·,;ersity of Wisconsin {Madison), Hawkins received his Master of Divinity from Union Theological Seminary and his Ph.D. in Er,glish from Yale University. Through the lens of his own axperience, Professor Hawkins will discuss how issues surrounding one's sexual identity can affect the workplace. 

Thursday, April 27, 2000
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

--·--­
All student groups must re-register annually to be eligible for official recognition and funding. Official recognition can only be granted by the Student Activities Office. For the 2000-2001 academic year, club registration will be held on April 27 and 28 in the Club Resource Center. Forms for the April registration were distributed at the February registration session. All undergraduate clubs arc required to register during one of these two days. An appointment is not required --just show up between the hours listed below! 
TODAY! 

10:00 AM -7:00 PM 
CLUB RESOURCE CENTER (314 LAFORTUNE) 
TOMORROW -FRIDAY, APRIL 28 
10:00 AM -7:00 PM 
CLUB RESOURCE CENTER (314 LAFORTUNE) 
DON'T FORGET TO BRING 
STUDENT ORGANIZATION REGISTRATION FORM . AFS APPLICATION SOCIAL SPACE SURVEY 
QUESTIONS? Call the Student Activities Office at 631-7309 
* FYI -Graduate Club Registration was held on April 13/14. 
. . ----· -------­

Thursday, April 27, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
CHILE JAPAN 
Court deliberates Pinochet case 
CUBA 
Castro backs raid, differs on guns 
Associated Press 
HAVANA 

President Fidel Castro on Wednesday praised the raid by 
U.S. agents that whisked Elian Gonzalez from his relatives, but said that in Cuba such an opera­tion would have been conducted withoul guns. 
"You can see obviously that the people wern well-trained," Castro said Wednesday. refer­ring to photos of the raid Saturday that took the 6-year­old child from the Mia.mi home of his great-uncle. But he said in Cuba, "we do it with unarmed people." 
Castro said Cuba's coastal authorities are trained to board vessels unarmed. 
Attorney General Janet Reno said agents were armed during Saturday's raid because of reports that there might be weapons in the Miami house where Elian was residing with his relatives. 
Castro also lashed out at American officials for not allow­ing Cuban child specialists to visit the 6-year-old in prepara­tion for his possible return to the island. 
"Not a single specialist, not a single psychologist, not a single psychiatrist," have been approved by U.S. officials, Castro told reporters after visiting a special boarding school in Havana being prepared for Elian and his classmates to attend if the boy is returned. 


If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $ 170 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of <;he University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. And on-campus student housing is available. 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. Contact Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, 
as well as for the 2000 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. *HOLY  
CROSS  
Session I -May f 7 to June 2 7  COLLEGE  
Session II  -June 28 to August 8  Notre Dame, Indiana  
Office ofAdmissions  

P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 239-8400 • Fax (219) 233-7427 e-mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu • hcc-nd.edu 
eHCC 2000 

Nuclear accident claims second victim 
discharged in December. 
Associated Press 

Hearing of Shinohara's 
TOKYO death, Japanese officials 
A worker exposed to radia­vowed renewed efforts to tion in .Japan's worst nuclear restore trust in the country's accident died Thursday nuclear energy program. morning, becoming the sec­"We will redouble efforts to ond fatality in a disaster that strengthen safety and disas­shook the nation's faith in ter prevention measures," nuclear energy. said Masaru Hashimoto, the 
Masato Shinohara, 40. died governor of lbaraki of multiple organ failure, the Prefecture, where University of Tokyo Hospital Tokaimura is located. said. Japanese Prime Minister 
Shinohara's condition had Yoshiro Mori expressed his improved condo­after the lences and accident, "We will redouble efforts said the but began to govern­
to strengthen safety and 
deteriorate ment will
disaster prevention 
rapidly in work hard mid-April as measures. to ensure respiratory that a sim­and kidney ilar acci­
Masaru Hashimoto
functions dent does 
began to provincial governor not happen 
As&ociated Press 
SANTIAGO. Chile 

Amid clashes between foos and followers of Gen. Augusto Pinochet. a court on Wednesday began deliberating on whether 
the former dictator should stand t.rial on human rights abuse dmrges. 
Judges will decide if 


Pin° ch et Pinochet can keep thl~ immuni­ty frnm prosecution he currPntly enjoys as a senator-for-life, a post he crnatcd for himself dur­ing his 1973-90 regime. As the court began its deliber­
ation. police sealed off the build­ing in downtown Santiago with crowd control fences and kept the rival groups apart. Strnets around the building were dosed to traffic. 
Anti-Pinochet demonstrators. including members of leftist groups and human rights orga­nizations, protested at one end of the block-long building. They carried photographs of alleged victims of Pinochet's rule and signs demanding a trial of tho former ruler. 
Police conlinNI the ex-dicta­tor's supporters to an opposing corner. The activists carried posters showing a smiling Pinochet. 
Pinochet rr.turncd home in February after being held for 16 months in London, where be blocked efforts to have him extradited to Spain for trial. He was released by Britain after doctors there determined he was physically and mentally unfit for trial, a conclusion supported by his doctors in Chile. 
As the 21 judges of the Santiago Court of Appeals lis­tened lengthy roport by investi­gator Juan (;uzman who had requested and end to the immu­nity, sporadic clashes erupted outside. Police detained several demonstrators. 
After listening to the report, the judges were to hear on Thursday and Friday the argu­ments by the lawyers for Pinochet and the plaintiffs. 
The judges did not immedi­ately rule on a request by Pinochet's defense lawyer that medical tests ho ordered to detnrmine whether the 84-year­old former ruler is fit enough to stand trial. 
According to an official report, 3,191 people were killed or disappeared during Pinochet's 17 years in power. 
On Tuesday. Pinochet had defended himself through retired Gen Luis Cortes, a close associate. After meeting with Pinochet, Cortes said: "He told me: 'Please tell everybody that I never ordered anybody to be killed or tortured.'" 
fail, said hospital spokesman Akiyoshi litsuka. 
Shinohara had been at the University of Tokyo Elospital since April 10 after being transferred from another medical facility run by the university. He had been on a respirator since February. 
He was the second plant worker to die since the Sept. 30 accident at a uranium-pro­cessing facility in Tokaimura, 70 miles northeast of Tokyo. 
Hisashi Ouchi, 35, died of multiple organ failure on Dec. 21 after having been exposed to a massive amount of radia­tion. Ile was the first person in Japan to die as a result of a nuclear plant accident. 
A third worker, Yutaka Yokokawa, was also hospital­ized for exposure to a lesser amount of radiation. but was 
ARGENTINA 

again, national broadcaster NHK reported. 
Shinohara's death came on the same day that a Japanese atomic power asso­ciation opened a symposium in Tokyo on regaining trust in nuclear power. The con­ference was to move to Tokaimura on Friday. 
The accident was triggered when the three workers used too much uranium to make fuel and set off an uncon­trolled atomic reaction. 
A total of 439 people, including near by residents, were believed to have been exposed to radiation. 
An investigation found that workers at the plant, run by JCO Co., routinely violated safety procedures, including mixing uranium in buckets to get work done quickly. 
Senate approves labor reform 
Associated Press 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina 
The Argentine Senate approved a controversial labor reform bill Wednesday, hand­ing President Fernando De la Rua his biggest political victo­ry to date in his bid to restart Argentina's fledgling economy. 
The late night vote came after daylong protests by thou­sands of' union workers opposed to the government's effort to overhaul the nation's labor laws. The legislative package will now be sent to the lower house, where its approval is expected. 
The bill calls for overhauling rigid laws, including extending the trial period of new hires and lowering employer payroll contributions for new workers. The government says that will boost wage flexibility and cre­ate more jobs, while reducing the cost of doing business. 
The bill also seeks to decen­tralize collective bargaining. De la Rua's ruling center-left Alliance coalition reached a compromise with foes early Wednesday on a clause to bar companies from lowering salaries in collective-bargain­ing. 

Foes of labor reform gath­ered outside of the heavily guarded Congress, waving union banners. banging drums and setting off bottle rockets as Senators sought to clear obstacles to final legislative approval of the ambitious bill. Debate of the bill was post­poned last week following a bloody police clash with demonstrators. 
Ilardline labor groups noisi­ly protested Wednesday that the bill would eventually drive up the 14 percent unemploy­ment rate while sending wages down. Hundreds of police watched from behind mesh barricades ringing Congress. 
Interior Minister l<'ederico Storani ordered out a heavy police guard, intent on pre­venting a repeat of last week's violence in which 30 people were injured. Police used rub­ber bullets and batons to break up that demonstration. 
The reforms have the back­ing of the International Monetary fund, which says Argentina needs more flexibili­ty in labor markets to keep the prices of exports competitive. 
page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 27, 2000 

aood. Thafs all Iha flme 110 need 11 th•pavementcom 

Visit our site now. Register and submit your resume. Boom --you'll have access to thousands of entry-level positions nationwide. And everything to help you make that jump into the real world: apartment searches, city comparisons, deals on cars, financial advice, salary ranges and more. So visit thepavement.com. Tick, tick, tick ... 

jobs money apartments hit the world running 
Thursday, April 27, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Presidential bid not in Clinton's future 
• If elected to Senate, she won't pursue White House in 2004 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO. N.Y. 

llillary Hodham Clinton pledged Wednesday that if elect­ed to the Senate she would not run for president in four years. The first lady also said she hoped the time Juan Miguel Gonzalez spends in the Unil.cd Statfl will persuadfl him to remain with his son in this coun­try. 
"I hope that this taste of free­dom and the opportunity to be with his son and to have this time perhaps would lead to that." the 
first lady said when a s k e d about the C u b a n boy's case during a town meet­
ing broatl­

cast by Clinton 
CNN. "But 
at the end 
of the day this has to be the 
fo.thf'r's decision." Clinton again defended the government's armed removal of 6-year-old Elian from his Miami relatives. saying it was "regret­table, but I understand the necessitv for it." 
Press.ed about her earlier pledge not to run for president in four . years, oven if Republicans win the White House this year, Clinton said: "I am going to serve my six-year term as senator. I owe it to the people of New York." 
The first lady also said lhat while she was a supporter of abortion rights, she could sup­port legislation that would out­law what critics call partial-birth abortion except in cases r.ndan­gering the woman's health. 
T1tA-NK YOUI 
An1o~tal C-orv1rr1iftu­5tvdc-rit Union 5oavcl Shiff Sfvde,nt Ac,..-livifi~ Offiex, Mcdie,~/ C-lvb 
rlip-5idc­Poc.-5vown 
ArYla·ic.-an 5nndavd 
0-Bonc-z... Tvoop N? 
• 
C-/a~~ of 2-DD2­T.0r.1.rncla~~ 
Uii/i'~ Pv1t-Pvtt Minia-fwc-0iolf 
Aro~'~ 
C-olovado 5fc-ak.hov~c;. 
Olive-0ravdc-n 
l..-,iromnc-ltaiv Salon 5fvdchag,I~ 
-•.od.ed"'-~b e 

Ver01ont governor signs gay union bill 
Associated Press 

MONTPELIER, Vt. 
Gov. Howard Dean signed a first-in-the-nation law Wednesday granting gay cou­ples nearly all of the benefits of mar­riagc. 
"I think it i.s a coura­geous and powerful statement about who we are in 


Dean

the state of Vermont," the Democrat said. "I also believe that this legislation speaks to the heart of this state, and certainly to my heart." 
The legislation creating mar­riage-1 ike "civil unions" reached the governor's desk shortly before lunch time, just a day after the House gave its final approval. And };)y the time of a 2 p.m. news conference, he had already signed it out of' view of TV cameras, photogra­phers and reporters. 
Dean said he signed the bill privately because he did not want the ceremony to be a tri­umphal party by supporters of the law. Instead, he said, it was time for the state to begin healing. 
"In politics, bill-signings are triumphal," he said. "They represent overcoming of one. 
side over another. These cele­brations, as the subject of the matter of the bill, will be pri­vate." 
The law will allow gay cou­ples to form civil unions begin­ning July 1. That will entitle them to all of the 300 or so rights and responsibilities available to married couples under Vermont law in such areas as taxes, inheritance and medical decision-making. 
Other states will probably not recognize Vermont civil unions, and such status will not entitle gay couples to any the benefits available to mar­ried couples under federal law in areas such as taxes and immigration. 
Nevertheless, no state has gone further than Vermont is giving gay couples something approximating marriage. 
The bill came about after the Vermont Supreme Court unan­imously ruled in December that gay couples were being unconstitutionally denied the benefits of marriage. The court left it up to the Legislature time to decide whether to let gays marry or to create some kind of domes­tic partnership. 
The legislation passed after strong debate in which oppo­nents argued that homosexu­ality is "against natural law." 
Opponents have warned that their anger will be apparent at the polls in November when Legislature members are up for re-election. 

A N 
Eursday, 4/27 

0 

*free t-shirts to the first 50 people 

s Music Mania & Games! 
T 
Fieldhouse Mall 4 pm -9 pm (Lafortune Ballroom if it rains) FEATURING: 4-5 pm: D-Bonez 5-7 pm: Doc Brown 
A 
7-9 pm: American Standard Air toys, inflatable moon walk, twister, 
L 
pop-a-shot basketball (provided by Class of2002) Free wings from Wings, Etc... Troop ND performs at 4:45 pm 


Page 12 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 27, 200U 


g 
CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE AND ITS PRESIDENT DR. MARILOU ELDRED INVITE ALL To PARTICIPATE IN 
CONVERGENCE 2000 
Friday, April 28 
7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Sandra M. Schneiders, IHM 

"With Oil in their Lamps: Faith, Feminism and the Future" 
16th Annual Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality 
Saturday, April 29 
1:30-3:00 p.m. Regina Hall North Lounge 
A Town Hall Conversation of the previous evening's lecture 

5:00 p.m. Eucharist at the Church of Loretto 
7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium 

"A Charter for Women of Faith in the New Millennium" 
presented by 
The Madeleva Lecturers, 1985-2001 
fallowed by reception in the foyer 
All these events are free and open to the public. 
-fi~ 
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAMH, IN' 




.-----------------------­
Thursday, April 27, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Judge: Ban on gay issues club unfair 
as an academic dub. The As,oLiated Press 
· club's goal is to discuss histo­
ry through gay and lesbian 
SALT Li\KE CITY issues. and their application 

/\ student club that focuses said the club would "expand on gay and lesbian issuPs will and enhanr,e our study and be allowed to meet \'lihile its understanding of American casr against the school dis­history and government." trict is considerrd. a federal But Cynthia Seidel. judge decided Wednesday. Assistant Superintendent of 
U.S Judge Tena Campbell thP Salt Lah City Sr,hool 
granted PHISM -or People Dislrirl, turned them down. Hesp!lcting Important Social She said the dub's gay sub­Mov1mients ject matter -a prelim-was tno nar­i n a r y row,· and
"[Judge Campbell] has

inj u n ction . thus not ruling that vindicated the important curriculum­
the school Constitutional require­related. distrir.t J u d g e
ment that when govern­

unfairly Campbell dcnird the ment regulators, includ­disagreed. 
East Iligh ing school officials,. set saying the 
Sr hoof stu­school
about restricting free

d c n ts per­board was 
mission to speec ... they can't keep 
being unfair m1wt. moving the goal posts." because no 
In tho rul­narrowness ing. she provision
Stephen Clark

suggested had been that school attorney put in writ­officials American Civil Liberties Union ing. 
violated "She has 
lhPir own vindicated 
policy and the impor­
the Constitution in snubbing tant Constitutional require­
PR!Sl\f. ment that when government 
In 19%. the school distrirt regulators. including school rlirninated all nonacademic of'ficials, set about restricting clubs rather than allow a gay free speech ... they can't keep club al East High. a move that moving the goal posts," said was uphrld in fedrral rnurl. Stephen Clark. an attorney 
In rnsponse. Jessica Cohen with the /\merican Civil and Maggie I Iinc:kley applied Liberties Union who repre­in Ft>bruary to set up PRISM sented Cohen and Hinckley. 
Justices debate gay scout case 
ity is immoral," he said, asking Amendment. 
A•sociatcd Press 

why the Scouts must accept as Some justices also had point­a leader "someone who embod­ed questions for the Scouts'WASilINGTON ies a contradiction of their lawyer. George Davidson.
Supreme Court justices strug­message'.'" Justice John Paul Stevensgled Wednesday over whether 

Pounded in 1910. the Swuts asked whether a homosexual 
to let the Boy Scouts bar homo­have an oath and law that long could be excluded if he did not

sexuals from serving as troop 

have required members to publicly declare his sexual ori­
leadflrs. role models in an 

promise to be "clean" and entation but it was discoveredorganization "morally against his wishes. 
that teaches straight." But Yes. said Davidson, arguingits members 

"In your view, a Catholic no written that the organization had a to be rule spAcifi­right "to choose the moral 
"morally organization has to 

cally address­leaders for the children in the straight." admit Jews." es homosexu­program."
Without 

ality. "Boy Scouting is so doselysaying how 
Wolfson identified with traditional
Stepen Breyer 
they will said the moral values that the phrase.

ultimately Supreme Court justice 

Scouts are not 'He's a real Boy Scout,' has vote. several 
primarily an entered the language."
justices 

"anti-gay Davidson said. The Scouts voiced skep-organization" believe homosexuality docs not ticism about and therefore Dale's presence fit that moral rode. he said. 
how far the court could go to did not burden the group's Souter told Davidson, "Mr. force open adm~ssions upon message. Dale is not asking to carry a private organizations. Dale did banner. He's "In vour viAW, a Catholic not seek to saying, 'I'm organ.ization has to admit use his lead­not going to
"[Boy Scouts isl a pro­
Jews" and "a Jewish organiza­ership posi­r.arry a ban­tion has to admit Catholics," tion to advo­gram that I hold dear to ner."' Justice Stephenn Breyer told cate homo­my heart, and I hope to Dale and Evan Wolfson, the lawyer for s ex u a Ii ty. his parents
one day be able to be
Jamfls Dale of New Jersey. a Wolfson attended tho former assistant scoutmaster addrd. back in the program." argument, ousted when the organization N e w and he spoke learned ho is gay. Dale subse­Jersey's high­afterward to
James Dale
quently filed suit against the est court reporters.
former assistant scoutmaster
Scouts. ruled that the "I have 
Justices Sandra Day Boy Scouts' always loved O'Connor and David Souter ban on gay the Boy followed Breyer's line of ques­troop leaders violated a state Scouts of America," he said. tioning. asking Wolfson prohibition on discrimination in "It's a program that l hold dear whether his argument meant public accommodatinns. But to my heart. and I hope to one the Scouts could be required to the Scouts s-ay the state law day be able to be back in the admit girls. violates the organization's program." Being morally 
Justice Antonin Scalia voiced rights of free speech and free straight means "standing up his reservations another way. association under the for yourself and being honest." "They think that homosexual-Constitution's First he added. 
II(;-W,e, ~tt,, tk ~,-ul tell, Ht ~ c;~,t,J.. H~ L,,fj,e, ~tc~­
11 
P~106:1 
Campus-wide Prayer Vigil of Gratitude 
Join us for 23 hours ofprayer in Eucharistic Adoration 

to express our thankfulness for Gods goodness in this Jubilee Year. Eucharistic Adoration is an especially intimate form ofprayer in which the Blessed Sacrament is exposedfor all to look upon as they pray and meditate. 
Tuesdar, May 2nd, 2000 Midnight to 11 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel Join us tor 30-minute bloc/ts beginning at Midnight 

0MPU5 
For more infix Erin at Rockenhaus. J@nd.edu or 4-1497 or Frank Santoni at 1-3250 

MINISTRY 



VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 14 BSERVER Thursday, April 13, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bo, Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 So111h Oining Hall. Nurre Oame, IN 46~56 
EDITOR IN CHIE Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR Bl!SINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lrne 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR O!'ERATIONS MANAGER Tun Logan Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VlEWPOIN r EDITOR: Lil.i Haughey SPORTS EDITOR, Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARy's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Liz Lmg 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pai Peters Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SrsT.EMS AvM!NISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROtLF.Re Roh Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Ct1cllar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERIGENF.RAL INFO.. ...........631-7471 FAX......................................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAsST. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS................................................... .......631-5 323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observec.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARYS................................ ...........631-4324 
observer.smc. J@nd.edu PHOTO......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://ob,erver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, tearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-m-rhe 
weekly student reviews
minure for,;.,asrs 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and races ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer 
archives to search for 
m meet rhe editors and 
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial coment, inclt1ding advertisements. is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse adverrisemencs based on comem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chier: Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Editor and depanmem edirors. Commentaries. letrers and columns present the views of the amhors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Eclicor must be signed and must mdude conlau inform:1cio11 
Q11estiom reg,mli11g Oh,e,-v;r polir(es s/,011/d bt dirert­ed w Editor m Chief Mike Co,inolly. 


On April 14th, I drove to n.c. with four ND students to reverse the widen­ing global gap between rich and poor. Our goal was to shutdown a joint meet­ing of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) on April 16 Aaron Kreider 
and 17. 
Those two bodies are imposing a Think. neoliberal (a.k.a. Question, "neo-classical") Resist. economic develop­ment model upon the Third World. When a poor nation needs funds to kick-start development, it has only one option: to follow the dic­tates of the IMF and World Bank which are controlled by the rich nations. 
Neoliberal economics tries to pro­mote "development" by increasing pri­vate corporate, and generally foreign, investment. Thus the IMF will ask a country to reduce its taxes on corpora­tions. but because it still has tn balance its budget this is usually accompanied by slashing its social spending (educa­tion, health, food subsidies, public transport, etc). These cuts hurt the poor the most. Also the IMF may encnurage a country to devalue its currency to make its exports more competitive. This lnwers its real (after inflationl wages, which corporations likA because it low­ers their costs. Neoliberalism wants to turn the developing world into one big sweatshop. In addition to its abuse of labor, the World Bank encourages envi­ronmentally destructive projects such as large hydroelectric dams that dis­place hundreds of thousands of people and intensive exploitation (a.k.a. destruction) of resources (forests, min­erals, land, etc). Neoliberalism threat­ens the health of our Earth and its peo­ple. 
We woke up on Saturday to learn that the police had raided the protest head­quarters, confiscating puppets, medical supplies. and $3000 of food (which IIH-1y later threw in a dumpster). That after­noon 600 legal dem()nstrntors, protest­ing tht! prison syst<'m, were surrounded by police and arrnsted. 
Sunday was the big day. Organizers had divided the area around the IMF and World Bank into eight pie slices. Each slice was assigned to a couple hundred people who were divided into affinity groups. Each affinity group appointed people to talk to the police, do jail support, be a legal observer, communicate with other groups and other tasks. The entire protest was gov­erned by a spokescouncil consisting of representatives from each affinity group, and it made decisions by consen­sus. I woke at 5:15am to see groups of several dozen protesters walking by my Foggy Bottom residence. I then got lost and was worried that everyone would be arrested before I found them. But I finally found my affinity group on F and 22nd street around 6:40a.m. We pro­ceeded to F and 20th street. where around 150 people blockaded until around 12:30p.m. 
To blockade we strung ribbon in the intersection, making it difficult for the police to mount a charge. Someone donated a dumpster. Anarchists bor­rowed about a hundred large bags of' mulch from a nearby construction site, which we later rnturned when Lim police threatened us. We blocked the road to the IMF and World Bank with one or two layers of "soft-blockadors" -people who linked arms and were either standing (to block delegates), or sitting (if \.Ve thought the polic1! were about to chargel. The soft blnckaders lined a light three-foot metal fence, beyond which stnod around forty police. Somn inl1-1rsections also had p!!ople sit­ting or lying in a circle, linked together with arms lockncl into tubes. making it very dif1icult for the police to move them. 
By this morning, knowing that police had Lear-gassed. pepper-sprayed and shot rubber bullets at hundreds of peircdul demonstrators in Seattle, and with the tonsion huilding due to tlrn arrnsts and raids on Saturday, I felt pretty sure that I was going to bn attackPd and IUTi>sled. The polic,• nPar us had riot gear, pepper spray and at least one tear gas gun. Twice we heard that the police had tried to break through a blockade just a couple blocks away, but were turned back. Tension built to the point where everyone put on a gas mask, or a bandana soaked in vinegar or lemon juice. However we were never attacked. In contrast to other intersections, our blockade was quiet and non-confrontational. 

At noon we lil'ted our blockade to join 10,000 to 20,000 people in a large legal march around the Ellipse. I learned later that delegates had been bussed in br,fore our blockade, so we had failed to ?top the meeting, yet the protesters were clearly victorious. From Seattle to 
D.C. (and possibly to Philadelphia in July for the Hepublican convention) we are building a movement for global jus­tice with the youth in the lead. In D.C. thousands learned that we can shut down major parts of the nation's capi­tal. It was a hug1\, joyful. progressiw street party! We do not l'Par thn police, and know that the next tinw will only be bigger. 
The police may, in the short tnrm, bn abln to get away with raids and beating pPople (a friend of mine was beaten on Monday), but the protesters gnt away with shutting down D.C. By lilling the jails and refusing to cooperate for five days. mnst arrest1-1d protesters were rnleased without giving their names after paying only $5 for "jay walking". 
At 4 a.m., as I drove the last hour back to Soulh BPnd. I saw policn in riot gear and anarchists in black in the dark shifling shapes of the rainy night: "There ain't no power like the power of Urn people, cause the pownr of the peo­ple don't stop!" 
After D.C.. Aaron Krieder. a graduate student in sociology. has an almost unstoppable urg(' to wear a bandana ouer his face and wave large black 
.flags. 
The l!iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­.<:arily those of The Ohseruer. 

SCOTT ADAMS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
DILBERT 

"ft:-; the anarchy ofpoverty that delights me.,, 
William Carlos Williams 
Poet 
--... -----­

---------------·-· ---­
VIEWPOINT 

Thursday, April 27, 2000 OBSERVER page 15 
Wordmeisters make 
sports fans cringe 
I guess my journalism degree must have expired, because I no long(ir understand whal has become of the craft (in my day, jour­nalists did not consider writing to be a profession). 
One ol' our local sportscrafters recently \/\Tote an entire column criticizing head football coach Bob Davie for saying he was looking for a dcff'nsive starter to play like a "thug." While every football fan, even my 87-year old mother, knows what 13ob meant-and sports­writers oftf'n us£' words like "assassin," "hit man." "killer instinct," "tear his head off," etc., with impunity -apparently this local scribe didn't understand that Bob was using a metaphor. From now on, I guess Bob will have to "dry clean" his language, as Andy Sipowicz would say. 
Local rnaders were treated to a diatribe about how rap music is rull or "thug" imagery, and it is especially bud for young black males to hear this word spoken by the Notre Dame football coach. I know Bob Davie pretty we.II, and never once have I heard him hum the lune lo any song by Tupac Shakur, or even Vanilla Ice. Doesn't Bob have enough to do, without some wannabr, football exp,-n-t lecturing him about the symbolism of his word usage? 
The article also quoted from someone who calls himself "Brother Sage." I don't know this fellow (although he can't be a member of a religious order, or thn local paper would call him merely "Sage"), but I'm puzzled why his lirst-ever newspaper comments about lhe 
evils of rap music are directed at 



one of the least likely rappers in town ... nobody calls him Puff Daddy Bob. If rap lyrics are poisonous to youth, let's air out the topic, but if a check of Bob's C.D. collection fails to turn up_any rap tunes, let's give the man a break. 
Ironically, all across the country, there are college athletes who really are thugs. These players have gone unnoticed on West Colfax Boulevard. (I have even heard of a basketball coach, who grabs his players by the larynx and peppers reporters with profane prose, if you can believe that. Our local reviewer of word appropriateness took that coach to task, not for being a cretin, but, only for jeopardizing another 

player's chance for a post-season honor.) 
Our local sportswriter ran never seem to spot these miscreants (even though he has written a maudlin story about one of his pals who committed an actual murder). One third of the roster of one Big East basketball team was recently arrested for assault. One Big East coach, who got some votes for Coach of the Year, and who is considered one of the hottest commodities around, used exclusively blue language during his sideline tirades. 
During the week that one-sixth of another Big East team was arrnsted for theft, our local sportswriter criticized Notre Dame stu­dents because they indelicately pointed out that another player on that team had fathered a couple of children. No mention of the two thieves. 
The other bad aspect of rap lyrics is their denigration of women. A huge problem in many big time athletic programs is the number of children fathered (and neglected) by star athletes. Apparently the "Sports Illustrated" expose of that problem (where Shawn Kemp leads the way with eight kids by seven women) served only as a challenge to emulate, for players on many campuses. According to former coach Larry DiNardo, his LSU players fathered 29 children in one season. No mention of this in the local press. 
Most Notre Dame students are ardent football fans. Many are quite literate. Perhaps one of them can come up with some accept­able word usagP to describe the aggressivP type of defensive men­tality Davie is looking for. These words must pass political correct­ness. No rappers need reply. What we're looking for is something macho. but tender; violent, but soothing; and whir.h could bP readily understood in a pre-game pep talk. Try to envision Alan Alda or Phil Donohue as Knute Rockne. If you've got something, please send along your ideas. I will be happy to relay them to Coach Davie, after I see if they pass muster with the local paper's wordmeister. 
Capp!J Gagnon, '66, points oul that the editorial headline on the April 26th local paper was "America -not always 'the good guy,'" This also seems to be their premise about Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Humorist missed the joke 
When I read Scutt Little's people? This stereotype is so first two paragraphs he serves article in the Scene section of unfounded and inaccurate that to group the entire black popu­yesterday's paper I was flat it defies my understanding. I lation together and basically out shocked. It is the first piece realize that Mr. Little is trying advocate social segregation by of writing I have ever read that to be funny but he is not. saying that blacks and whites has made me rethink my Ile says that he is not being should act differently. stance on censorship. I now racist and that it is only about Little, as always, fails to say think that we should protect image but he fails to under­anything funny in his article the public from ignorance and stand the impact of his state­while managing to make every nonsense. ments. He refers to all black statement either unoriginal or 
Little says that since African men as brothers and all black nonsensical. Ilis history of Americans have been in the women as sisters. That is not white rappers is adequate at United States white people funny, it's stereotypical. In best and his analogies to feces have been trying to emulate addition. he just substitutes are just plain dumb. Every them. This statement is the the word race for image. He once in a while an article best argument for a mandato­assumes that there is a black screams to be put in the bot­ry African American history image and a white image and tom of a bird cage and this is class that l have ever read. never tho twain shall meet. I one of them, however it hap­Apparently Scott hasn't heard would like to know what the pens to also be evidence of the of the institution of slavery. I black image he speaks of is. racial ignorance that is perva­don't have the stats but I feel Especially, I want to know sive in society. pretty secure in saying that no what parts of the white image slave owners desired to be black people should not be Todd Callais black. Secondly, which white allowed to tread on. If he is not Junior, Sr. Edwards Hall people are you talking about racist then I want to know April 26, 2000 and what belongs only to black what he thinks he is. In the 
Serving Haitians, serving us 
There is something unique in the student body hopes to see the rising number of infection cases of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, something that reduced. The micro-enterprise would help llaiti sets them apart from other students pursuing medicinally (by providing bednets which would scholarly studies at ranked universities. Is it that prevent and lower the number of transmission they study more, party less? Or is it that they are cases) and economically (provide jobs to the survivors of South Bend's mercurial weather people). and Notre Dame's rigid administration? HBC is further subdivided into several commit-
Although this uniqueness weaves itself tees led by Sandra Peterson, Justin Campbell, through the heart of every Domer and Belle, Meaghan Flaherty, Ak.maral Omarova, and embroidering a distinct pattern onto them which Sharon Watson. Many of HBC members donate sets them firmly apart from the myriad of preco-valuable time to develop ideas and formulate cious college students, it is found in neither aca-plans to prepare presentations. HBC has gener­demic nor athletic achievements. Instead, ated tremendous support from the adminis­it is the humanity exhibited by students --:;;~~:::~~
.. tration, the College of Arts and Letters, who forego spring breaks to help the the College of Business, the College of poor in Appalachia, who conduct Engineering, and from SIBC. An blood drives to help an ill class-immense amount of effort has been mate, and who volunteer in the put in by those involved with the community to help the less for-hope of seeing the plan come to tunate around them. It is this completion. sense of social responsibility To accomplish its goal, HBC that positions Notre Dame developed the Four Phases and Saint Mary's a notch Plan. The first phase entails above the rest. And it is this intense theoretical research same sense of sociai respon-on Haiti and the bednet indus­siveness that has brought try in general. The second together a group of diverse phase, the Assessment but dedicated students to a Evaluation, begins this sum-cause first purported to be mer and will include additional real only in a dream. research on the disease and 
This group is known as the economy of Haiti. In the third Haiti Bednet Committee or phase, students will develop a HBC, a committee of a larger comprehensive business plan, student organization known as the which will be present to a non-Student International Business government organization in the Council (formerly called the Notre Fourth Phase. Dame Council of International Business As HBC enters its third year (fifth semes-Development). The committee is actually the ter) of planning, it asks anyone with a keen brainchild of Fr. Thomas G. Streit, professor of desire to help to come to one of its meetings next biology at Notre Dame, who approached the semester or visit them at their website: Council in the fall of 1998 with the idea of using www.nd.edu/-mmarcell. bedncts to combat vector-borne diseases in HBC trusts that its plan of action is ideal for Haiti. HBC hopes to provide the academic infor-the purpose of providing long-standing assis­mation needed to construct a bednet-producing lance to the medical concerns of the Haitians, micro-enterprise in Haiti. Haiti is a small island namely with regard to vector-borne diseases. In in the Caribbean constantly plagued by spouts of doing so, it hopes to foster the philanthropic malaria, dPngue fever, and lymphatic filariasis. sentiment upon which it is founded, which is All three diseases are transmitted by mosquitoes defined by the Committee's aphorism of "Irish and have an adverse effect on the health and helping Haitians, so that one day Haitians can economy of Haitian civilians. By using a bednet, help Haitians." a net that encloses a bed to protect sleepers from mosquito bit€s, the diseases can be pre­Myrmose Marcellon vented, Sophomore 
Through the application of bednets, HBC April 24. 2000 
Viewpoint is accepting letters for the commencement edition. Please label letters "senior week" and send them to viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
I 
--­' 


page 16 Thursday, April 27, 2000 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'U-571' sub thriller needs less speech, more speed 
By JOEY LENISKI 
Scene Movie Cri1ic 
The format of "U-571" reads like a roller-coaster ride. Like the clatty-clink. clatty clink of a coastor's 200-foot incline, the lirst half-huur is slow and boring. But it allows thA viAwer to look around the film and get a feel for what is going on. 
After 40 minutes ol' climbing. the ride levels out. and the audience has no choice but to scream and wail their arms franti­callv in the air as the movie kicks into higl1-gear and plummets down an action­filled slope. 
Anticipation for what is to come fuels the opening sPquences. Th~i 
setting is early In World "U-571" commander of a skeleton War II. during the fiercest 
crew aboard the Gorman naval fighting between 
U-Loat as they try franti­allied forces and the axis 
cally to transport their powers. In the middle of a sensitive cargo back to 
out of five shamrocks 
wedding celebration the United States. This while on shore leave, Lt. means operating aDirector: Jonatllan Mostow
Cmdr. Dahlgren (Bill 
wounded vessel with the Paxton) has the unfortu­Starring: Matthew instructions entirnly in nate duty of explaining to German as they try des­
McConaughey, Harvey Keitel,
his executive officer. Lt. perately to avoid cletec­Tyler (Matthew Jon Bon Jovi and Bill Paxton 
tion by the German neet. 
much time spent loading a boat with sup­plies -the vessel shoves off upon their dangerous and highly classi{fod mission. 
Disguisl~d as a German supply boat, the crew will attempt to board the submarine. subdue the G{mnan sailors, sink their boat and recover their prized Enigmas without alerting the rest of the enemy fleet. If you are wondering why 20 Navy men fresh from heavy drinking at a wedding rectip­tion were assignt>d to such a dangerous and intricate task, you join the company of this reviewer. Regardless, they rnach the disabled U-boat and set their boarding plan inlo molion. 
The results are disastrous. Alter a series 
of catastrophes, Lt. Tyler 
finds himself the sole 
McConaughey). why exactly the young Tyler is not prepared to command his ovin boat. 
Angst riddles the scene, but military police intervene and break up the tension with important news: Dahlgren's crew has been selected for a special mission. They have been charged with commandeering a German Li-boat marooned in the Atlantic Ocean and recovering its Enigma machines, the encoding devices that trans­mit sensitive German messages to forces across the globe. 
After much character introduction and a heightened sense of intrigue among the principles -not to mention entirely too 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
Their prospects am not hopeful, but they make for vastly entor­taining movie-viev.ing. 
"U-571" is typical of schizophrenic action movies that cannot perfectly blond their emotional undercurrent with the flashy spectacle of their physical sequences. The strength of this film rests in these action sequences, which comprise the majority of its running time. While the sub-plot (no pun intended) which involves LL Tyler gaining the courage to control his own ship is a sweet distraction, it simply does not compare to watching four torpe­does narrowly avoid detonation by scrap­ing across a submarine hull. From the moment the U-boat is capturnd, the crnw faces alarming pr.ril in many forms -al! accentuated by rapid-fire sequences which play out very convincingly. 


The acting. plot and character develop­ment of this movie are lost in the rubbln aftPr the action ceases to boom across tho screen. Matthew :'vtcConaughey does at least a competent job of portraying a :vtaverick-type naval officer who realizes the full implications of' his duty, and Harvey Keitel is wonderful (though under­used) as the old \VvVl veteran along for the ride. The other actors are dillicult to make comments about because their characters• arc often lost in the story-telling, which is one major drawback to this movie. llow can the audience care about character when they are introduced out from under -then stulTed back beneath -the rug? 

The same complaints can br. said about the plot in this film. While based on actual events that happenPd during WWII, the succession of events in "U-571" could be considered hackneyed, repetitive sequences pulled from any number of pre­ceding submarine movies. 
Once reaching the summit, "U-571" is definitely a 70-mi!es-an-hour downhill ride. Like al! roller-coasters, however, when it pulls back into the station at the end, it is a bit of a letdown. As a premiere submarine film, it has neither the convinc­ing suspense of "The Hunt for Red October," the quality acting of "Crimson Tide" nor the realism of "Das Boot." But as two hours of mindless, edge-of-your-seat entertainment, this movie succeeds. And after all, isn't a movie all about the ride anyway? 
Exciting car chases punctuate a brilliant 'Connection' 
By JOHN CRAWFORD 

Scene Movie Critic 
Hollywood doesn't know how to do good car chases anymore. 

With the exception of the dizzying pursuits in Robert DeNiro's 1998 spy flick "Ronin," modern movie car chases are too often grating scenes full of senseless explosions, overdone be a lost art. special effects and bewildering The car-train pursuit in "The MTV-style quick cuts, all accom­French Connection," a 1971 panied by some loud and bad Oscar-winning police drama, is music. about as good as chases get. 
Chases that are testosterone­Without relying on effects, boiling, octane-burning thrill explosions, gimmicks or heavy­rides, like the muscle-car show­metal music. it involves just a down through the hills of San man, a fast car and a revving Francisco in the 1968 Steve engine, not to mention a run­McQueen film "Bullitt," seem to away elevated train barreling 


In the 1971 action drama "The French Connection," Gene Hackman plays Jimmy "Popeye" Doyle, a tough police detective on the trail of a heroin shipment from France. 
down the tracks above the city. the basketball court. Shaquil!e 
"Police emergency, l need your O'Neal, and the recent and car," says Jimmy "Popeye" Doyle uneven "Hules of Engagement." (a gutsy and driven Gene ln "The French Connection," Hackman). as he hijacks a vehi­however, Friedkin presents a cle and blasts through Brooklyn, world that is real and brutal. It's zigzagging through trafiic, flying full of dirty streets and seedy blindly though intersections and neighborhoods, places you crashing into wouldn't want to cars and walls. touch without
"The French
lt's beautiful washing your and exciting and hands after­
Connection"
it inspires a sym­wards. phony of goose His protago­pimples -every-nists are tough thing a good car Director: William Friedkin and flawed. 
chase should do. Starring: Gene Hackman They're good 
The car-train guys who don't chase is the cen-and Roy Scheider always act good, 
terpiece of a movie full of police pursuits, as two New York City cops. Doyle and Roy Schoidor's Buddy Husso, tail suspects through streets, highways and subway stations. 
The film is one big cal-and­mousc game as the two cops try to intercept a huge horoin ship­ment from France. 
The film won five Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Actor f'or llackman and Best Director for William Friedkin. 
Director of the 1973 horror classic "The Exorcist." Friedkin is a standout 1970s filmmaker who has soemingly disappeared. 
His work in the '90s includes the far-from-stellar "Blue Chips," starring that Marlon Brando of 
heroes who don't always win and cops who don't always get their man. 
The center of Friedkin's uni­verse is Doyle, a rough and tum­bin mess of' a polio~ officer: he drinks and bickers, flirts with women, utters ethnic and racial epitaphs, slaps suspncts and con­ducts alley interrogations. !!<' advises his partner, "Don't trust anyone." 
When shaking down suspected drug dealers. he taunts them. saying, "Want that hand bro­ken?" 
lle's a character so hell-bent on justice that he careens down crowded city streets pursuing an out-of-control train, giving cine­ma one of its greatest car chas­es. 

M 
e E 

Thursday, April 27, 2000 page 17 
MOVIE FEATURE 
FilmJunkies.net is perfect for movie buffs 
Two Notre Dame freshmen launch successful Website from their dorms 
By MATT NANIA Assistant Scene Editor 
Herently launrhed by two Notre Dame students. the all-new Film .I u n k itis Website t www..fi!m­j11nkies. net) is the ideal place for movie buffs. 
Brian Scofi(>!d and Brian Bircher. two frcshmon living in Siegfried llall. founded Film .Junkies in February with the hopes of launching it hy th;1 em! of the semcstP.r. Their goal with Film Junkies is to give the site's view­ors the best movie nows, reviews and entnrtaining commentary ou the Internet. 
Scofield, the site's Webmaster. has am pie experience crna.ting Web pagns. owning his own Web design compa­ny: Synapse· Web Design 
(wu·w.synapse­u• e b . c: o m ) . hiunded in August of 1997 in Scofir.ld's hometown of' Austin, Texas, Synapse makes high quality, professional Websites for smaller companies that can't afford the Web design fees that other, big-time designers require. 
"After officially registering and starting the business. I put up a sign in my dad's office, got a couple offers and word began to spread," Scofield said. Working on these company sites gave Scofield the experience he need­ed to undertake Film Junkies, as well as his Write Place Website 
lwww.synapse-web.com/writer), a 
Website where young authors can share their work with others. 
Bircher, whose hometown is Hochester, NY, is a huge movie fan thanks to his friends. 
"My friends at home are really big movie fanatics and I kind of got sucked in," Bircher said. 
When he and Scofield met at Notre Dame, they soon realized their mutual admiration for films. 
"When I found out Brian had a lot of experience with designing Webpages, I thought that maybe we could do our own movie site." Bircher said. 
With the Weh a.treacly jam-packed with movie sites, how was Film Junkies going to stand out from the crowd? 
"Well," explains Scofield. "we saw all kinds of movie Websites focusi.ng too much on upcoming movies and not enough on discussing the films them­selves, af'ter they came out. None of them were discussing the statements the films were making right now." 
"The Internet is an enormous public 
forum," Scofield said. "We wanted 
to create a place where 
film buffs could find 
other people who 
love movies and 
discuss the art 
of film with 
them." 
Indeed, 
most movie 
sites on the 
Internet 
focus only 
on uncon­
firmed 
rumors and 
movie news 
and even 
fewer offer 
qualified 
reviews. Film 
Junkies, however, 
offers commentary on 
both recent releases and past films. 
Supplied by the site's contributing writers, which include Scofield, Bircher and Matt Wetzler (Scofield 's good friend and co-worker from back home), Film Junkies· reviews are valuable tools for deciding whether to see a film or even just to see how opinions can differ. 
"We want to entertain people with all types of articles." Scofield said. That's where Pilm Junkies "Ramblings" come in. 
"If Film Junkies was a newspaper, the ramblings would be our editori­als," Scofield said. Ramblings are free-form articles about anything movie related. For example, Scofield "rambled" on about how he bought "The Shawshank Redemption" DVD for only $1.99. Every movie fan (heck, every college student) wants to get DVDs cheap. And Film Junkies can 


help. 
"I figure, why not share any nvn shopping know-how that I have with others like me, Scofield said. If the artirlr. gets popular enough, he intends to make it a per­manent feature. 
Further illus­trating the site's goal or provid­ing its readers with helpful information, Birr.her put forth a Ramble on the upcoming summer movie season. 
"I just wanted to give people a head-start on what was com­ing out. There's a lot of movies to see, and I wanted to give my opinion on what look to be the biggest movies of the summer, Bircher said. 
Such useful articles are what sepa­rate Film Junkies from other movie sites. 
Aiming not only to entertain its readers with interesting articles and humorous features, the site, which claims it has got "enough cool movie stuff to pull the ears .off a Gundark" (a Star Wars reference). also wants to inform people. 
"We spout out about whatever we feel needs to be said," said Scofield. Readers can expect discussions on numerous film-related topics, from casting news to arti­cles explaining the pits and falls of DVDs 


and Laserdiscs. "We're working really very exciting time Film Junkies also 
hard to appeal to people for anv movie fan, gives its readers a and it'll be an excit­
with different tastes
chance to express ing time for the site 
their own opinions. while staying true to our as well," said 
"If someone has own ideas." Bircher. "And since something they'd like we won't have to to share with worry about classes 
Brian Scofield

the film commu­anymore, we can nity," says Film Junkies Webmaster devote more time to 
tastes while staying true to our own ideas. It's frustrating at times, but it really is a labor of love," Scofield said. 
Scofield and company are planning on supporting the site and its expan­sion (an extensive movie trailers sec­tion is underway) through paid adver­tising. 
Running a large-scale Website is no small undertaking. Scofield and his writers are devoting a great deal of their free time to keeping the site cur­rent and up-to-date with all the latest news and reviews. And, with the sum­mer movie season just around the cor­
ner, they're not let­
ting up any time 
soon. 
"The summer is a 
Scofield. "we can post their ramble in addi­tion to our own." 
Readers can submit their thoughts via e-mail or they can post them on the fllm Junkies Forums, which arc message boards tailored around various movit> topics. 
Above all. Film Junkies is a placP for people who love movies. 
As Scofield explained it, "The Int0rnet is already the biggest movie club in the world. We want to bring it togPthu into a new kind of community. We want everybody to be part of it. It's not just for people who love summer blockbusters. it's also for people who love film as an art form." 
Striving to attract a large audi­ence, Film Junkies promises an enjoyable, informative visit: "We're working reaHy hard to appeal to people with different 
seeing and reviewing 
the movies that are 
coming out then." 

Looking towards the future, Scofield admits that he's not expecting Amazon.com-like popularity. 
"We know our limits; we won't become the largest movie site on the planet. But we have things to say and we want to hear what other people have to say too," Scofield said. 
When asked what films they were looking forward to this summer, Scofield and Bircher agreed: 
"As far as main stream movies go, 'Gladiator' [a Roman-soldier epic star­ring Russell Crowe] and 'The Patriot' [a Revolutionary War drama starring Mel Gibson I. Those will be the ones to beat this summer,"said Bircher. 
If the site's hit count is any indica­tion; the same can be said for film Junkies. Said Scofield, "We've got a strong following already and it's only going to get bigger. We're all really looking forward to the site's future. It's going to be a lot of fun." 
Thursday, April 27, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 18 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Red Sox crush Rangers, reach season high of 21 hits 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON. Texas 

Nomar Garciaparra had three hits, including a home run, to extend his hitting streak to 13 games as the Boston Red Sox routed the Texas Rangers 14-4 Wednesday. 
c;arciaparra's RBI double provided Boston's first run. and was part of a five-run first­inning outburst after Texas starter Mark Clark (2-2) got the first two outs. 
Garciaparra was among seven straight Red Sox hitters to reach with two outs. The bottom seven hitters in the bat­ting order, responsible for Boston's best first inning of the season, had at least two hits. The 21 hits were a season high for Roston and the most allowed by Texas this season. 
With his second 3-for-5 game in the series, plus an intention­al walk with Boston leading by six runs, Garciaparra was 8­for-14 in the three games against Texas. He is 25-for-48 (.521) against the Hangers since the start of last season. During his hitting streak this season, Garciaparra is 25-of-54 (.463). He raised his average 17 points to .386 Wednesday. 
AftP.r Clark got the first two Boston batters out, Rrian Daubach and Garciaparra hit consecutive doubles, Following a walk, Carl Everett hit a three­run homer and No. 9 hitter Wilton Veras later added an RBI single. Daubacb had four hits. inr.luding a career-high three doubles. 
Yankees 2, Twins 0 
Derek Jeter broke a scoreless tie with a sixth-inning homer and Tino Martinei added another solo shot two outs later as the New York Yankees beat the Minnesota Twins for their second win in six games. 
Jeter drove a 2-2 pitch from Joe Mays (0-3) into the right­field seats for his third homer of the season. Martinez's homer, also his third. went into the right-field bleachers. 
Mays shut down the Yankees on two hits over the first five innings, and Jeter's homer was New York's first extra-base hit of the three-game series, a span of 23 innings. Jeff NAlson (4-0). the second of four Yankees pitchers, pitched 1 2/3 innings and was crndited with the win in relief of Andy Pettitte, who made his first start since coming off the dis­abled !isl with a mild back strain. 
Pettittc, on the disabled list since April 13, wurked five innings, allowing three hits, walking one and striking out four. 
He retired the first eight Twins before Jason Maxwell singled with two out in the third and Cristian Cuzman reached safely on Scott 13rosius's fielding error at third. 
Pettittc got Denny Hocking to hit into an inning-ending force out. Mike Stanton followed Nelson in the seventh, retiring all four Twins he faced before Mariano Rivera pitched the ninth for his seventh save in eight chances. 
White Sox 11, Orioles 5 
Playing first base obviously agrees with Frank Thomas. 
Thomas. back at the position for the first time since April 9, hit a grand slam as the Chic.ago White Sox beat the Baltimore Orioles. 
It was the seventh victory in eight games for the White Sox, who are off to their best start since thA 197:3 club went 15-5. 
Thomas' big homer overshad­owed Harold Baines' 2,800th hit. Baines, who played for the White Sox for almost 12 years and already has his number retired by the club, reached the milestone with a solo home run in the third. 
Whether he likr,s it or not, Thomas has always put up bet­ter numbers whim he's playing first. lle's a career .337 hitter at first, compared with .290 as a designated hitter. 

He won both his MVPs as an everyday first baseman. And his slump the last two years'! Came when he was primarily DHing. 
Thomas went back to first without complaint in spring training, but moved to DH on April 11 because of tendinitis in his right foot. Manager Jerry Manuel decided to put him back at first after watching Thomas in a rundown Tuesday night. 
"I saw him scamper back and forth," Manuel said before the game. "I said, 'That looks like a big first. baseman over there. he can do some things." 
And Thomas didn't disap­point.. 
After Sidney Ponson 12-11 walked Jose Valentin to load the bases in the bottom of the fourth, Thomas sent an 0-1 pit<:h rocketing into left-center for the grand slam. 
It was his fifth horner of tho year, and his 11rst grand slam since July 31, 1998, at Texas. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED: SUMMER SUBLEASE  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  Fax it fast'  Thank you (oh, and Jose too) for  
NOTICES  Grad student needs 1 or 2 bdrm. 1 bath, ale, non-smoke, Dan 4-3144  FOR RENT  with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still  Fax it fast! Fax it fast!  ke?lping me alive back l"lere.  

 in plastic. $235 219-862-2082  Sending & Receiving  Now I'm all by myself.  
THE COPY SHOP  PAID INTERNET INTERNSHIP:  Rental houses for 4-6 students with  
LaFortune Student Center  Lead campus promotions !or online  large rooms.  Mazda 66LX '90, air, sunroof, 4-dr,  THE COPY SHOP  I wonder who's reading this and  
Store Hours  company  W&D. 291-2209 DAVE  great cond., $3300  LaFortune Student Center  thinking, "Wow, I wish I knew who  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid  1-88B-420·9800x319, or  all these people were so the inside  
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  adam@moneyformail.com  3 bedroom duplex  MOVING SALE  Our Fax# (219) 631-3291  jokes made any sense."  
Sat: Noon-6:00pm  Appliances, W/D  www.nd.edu/-abailey/moving_sale.  
Sun: Noon-Mid  1 mile from campus  html  I know those people are out there.  
Free Pick-Up & Delivery!  273-8332  Wow. this is a lot of room.  
Call631-COPY  The Society of Professional  19B7 Black Saab 900  Chad was one of them.  
We're open late so your order will  Journalists seeks candidates for its  HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed­ In great shape. Need to sell!  Oh. goody!  
be done on time!  prestigious Web Fellowship, a one­ room, $1000/month, 2) 2-bedroom,  $2300 -negotiable.  At least he can admit it.  
year appointment based in  $500/month. We'll make almost any  Call Stacey: 634-2511  Hey Chad --thanks for saying hi on  
LOST & FOUND  Indianapolis. Excellent compensation. Duties and responsibilities:  changes to the houses. Cal I bill at 675-0776  GIBSON LP 234-6245  the quad. Erin, I LOVE YOU!  Total eclipse of the heart... I love web radio.  
-Manage & coordinate the Society's  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, PRI­ 
LOST: blue warmup Jacket left in  Web Site (spj.org)  VATE BATH, PRIVATE KITCHEN,  Yes, Jeff. this one is directed to E­ And the African safari music.  
Lafun. Please call Eric at x4606.  -Implement/coordinate the daily site  LAUNDRY, PHONE, 5 MIN N of  Vintage Gibson ES-160.  dogg.  
updates from staff & updates from  CAMPUS  Aaron at 4-4235  Kelly loves the African safari music.  
WANTED  staff and volunteers -Manage relationship with external Web hosting company  272-0615 WANTED: 6 subletters for summer.  PERSONAL  Not to one of the million other Erins at Notre Dame.  But not half as much as she loves Billy Joel.  
Caregiver needed 2000-01 acade­ -Collaborate with the executive  1022 Madison St. $300/month  We don't have that problem with  
mic yr, Tues-Thurs. 7:45 -5:45 for 2 young children. 631-7795. Transpo  director, staff & volunteers on development & implementation of  negotiable. Contact Barb x1573 or Chenell x2378.  .....The FINAL issue of THE OBSERVER is May 3rd......  Min.  She did a pretty ballerina dance for us all.  
& ref. required.  Web strategies.  The date of the commencement  Only one Mindy-monster.  
L'ARCHE HARBOR HOUSE in  Requirements:  Chicago Roommate Needed! 3 '99 N.D. grads in Chicago watn a  issue is May 19th.  Yea for us.  Also, Kelly, thank you for offering the stick.  
Jacksonville, Florida invites you to a  -Complete knowledge of HTML  roommate until Sept. 1. 1 bedroom  0 HOLY ST. JUDE APOSTLE AND  
year of service creating community  (hand coding, not only WYSIWYG.  in big apt only 1 block from Wrigley  MARTYR GREAT IN VIRTUE AND  Andrew, you can come pick up your  There were many people I could  
with persons who are mentally dis­ Front Page, Dreamweaver, etc.)  Field. Call ASAP. Katie 773-348­ RICH IN MIRACLES NEAR KINS­ laundry stuff anytime.  have used it on.  
albed. Responsibilities include:  -Experience with SQL & Cold  7530  MAN OF JESUS CHRIST. FAITH­ 
assist in creating a home; develop relationships with members; and  Fusion for database-driven Web sites  2 bedroom, 2 bath College Park  FUL INTERCESSOR OF ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR SPECIAL  All Kristina and I need is one more thing to make our room look like a  Hey Brian, some girls at Notre Dame to go "all the way."  
assist in personal care' and commu­ -Working knowledge of JavaScript,  apartment for lease during summer  PATRONAGE IN TIME OF NEED.  mess.  
nity living. Requirements include a  CG!, PERL  session. Call Erin @ x423B if inter­ TO YOU HAVE RECOURSE  At least in their Bookstore  
desire to live with. learn from, and  -Experience developing for a wide  ested.  FROM THE DEPTH OF MY  Wait, our room is a mess.  tournaments.  
relate with mentally disabled adults.  variety of browsers  HEART AND HUMBLY BEG  
- Benefits include stipend, room,  -Excellent skills in Web layout, navi­ COLLEGE PARK APT. FOR RENT  WHOM GOD HAS GIVEN SUCH  It's five in the morning.  But if they have uninteresting  
board. and health insurance and  gation, graphic design  JUNE AND JULY. WILL PAY  GREAT POWRE TO COME TO MY  names, what does it matter?  
formation in the spirituality and phi­ -Proficiency in Photoshop,  WATER BILL' W/D, CLEAN, GIRL  ASSISTANCE. HELP ME IN MY  Do you know where I am?  
losophy of L'Arche. To apply, con­ Illustrator & Quark  RENTED. 2B, 2B. CALL 243-2779  PRESENT AND URGENT PETI­ Hey Chad. wanna go swimming?  
tact Dottie Klein, L'Arche, 700  -Strong artistic & creative ability  TION. IN RETURN f PROMISE TO  Nice guess.  
Arlington Rd., Jacksonville, FL  -Thorough understanding of Web- MAKE YOUR NAME KNOWN AND  I want some watermelon nerds!  
32211; (904) 744.4435  specific graphics productton (hie  CHICAGO SUBLET: Need 1 person  CAUSE YOU TO BE INVOKED.  Thank you for selling so many ads,  
formats. compression, etc.)  to suble apt for summer. Call the  SAY 3 OUR FATHERS, 3 HAIL  Chad.  Yea for watermelon nerds.  
Summer Server Needed  -Knowledge of Epicentric Portal  Bear x0946  MARY'S, AND 3 GLORIA FOR 9  
Flexible Hours, Great Pay  Server & iMIS software a plus  DAYS. PUBLICATIONS MUST BE  Hey, that rhymes.  Annie and Iwant water guns tor our  
Close to Campus  PROMISED PRAY FOR US ANO  room next year.  
K's Grill & Pub 277-2527  Candidates should respond to:  ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR AID  Ad Chad.  
Society of Professional Journalists  2BR, 2nd fir. apt, 525/mo.  AMEN.  And silly string.  
Need child care in Granger home.  James L. Gray, executive director  Along St. Joe River.  Yeah.  
15 hr/wk. Summer. Call Katie 271­ 16 S. Jackson St.  Incl. Water/Sec. Sys./Trash  This novena has never been known  Hey Mindy, good luck, you know  
1935  Greencastle, Ind. 46135  288-2654  to fail.  Yeah, Annie.  what I mean.  
jgray@spjhq.org  THANK YOU ST. JUDE  
PROFESSOR SEEKS SUMMER  NO PHONE CALLS  Yeah.  You're smart You'll deal with it bet­ 
NANNY FOR ENERGETIC 4­ SUMMER INTERNS!  *SENIORS•  ter than I could.  
YEAR-OLD BOY. MUST LIKE  SPJ is the nation's largest & most  Apt. for rent in Chicago's Lincoln  Going to Duke next year for  At least I won't have physics lab in  
HORSES AND HORSESHOWS. WEEKENDS. CALL PROF. MILLER AT 631-4133. STIPEND  broad-based journalism organiza­tion dedicated to improving and pro­tecting journalism  Park area. Avail. July 1 -Aug. 31 jw/opt to extend for 12 months). 2 bdrm, 1 bath, kitchen w/new appli­ law/med/grad school? Looking for a roommate?  the summer. It just got really cold in here.  But you still have a cooler life -· even if it is a little complicated now.  
PLUS EXPENSES.  ances, large dining rm, deck, yard.  E-mail petelle.1@nd.edu  And some new clothes.  
On tree fined street. 1.5 blocks from  Hey Brian, next year, bookstore -­ 
You've got approximately 45 years  el and bus. $1155/monlh. Call Amy  Study Oays & Finals Week  me and you. We can use one of  Haha.  
of work ahead of you. You may as  WANTED: Part time sitter for two  773-868-6064  ...SPECIAL'"  your brilliant, yet "technical,"  
well do something you love now. Be  kids. Flexible hours, good pay,  $0.035 self-serve copies  names.  I have some new clothes too.  
a Student Brand Manager repre­senting Red Bull on campus next  walking distance from ND campus'! Transportaton preferred. Starting  FOR SALE  $0 035 self-serve copies $0.035 self-serve copies  Oh, so YOU'RE Brian Burke.  WERDNA11 Come get them.  
fall. Throw parties, go to all the hot  May 8th or 15th. preferably.  From 5/1 -5/12  
spots. build a great resume.  Possibility of job for academic year  95 Red vw Cabrio, 5speed, blk  THE COPY SHOP  Very nice to meet you.  Ha, I'm whining.  
too! Call Carmen at 631-3815 or  leather, 40K mi, excellent condition,  Lafortune Student Center  
E-mail Rob Koller at  Nanni2@nd edu  $10.000/Best, must sell. call 243·  We accept Domer Dollars too!  Hope all goes well with the addic­ But I can do that. Cause now, I am  
Rob .Koller@redbull-us.com  8901  Call 631-COPY  tion.  gone.  

Thursday, April 27, 2000 The_ Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Student Union Board 
Thursday, 4/27 

An Tostal: Campus-Wide Tug O' War & Water FightMcGlinn Fields, 3-4 pm Music Mania & Inflatable Toys: Fieldhouse Mall, 4-9 pm Troop ND, 4:45 pm 
Acousticafe: LaFun from 9 -12 pm "The Green Mile": 101 DeBartolo at 10:30 pm 
Friday, 4/28 


"The Green Mile": 101 DeBartolo at 8 ·pm & 10:30 pm 
Saturday, 4/29 

"The Green Mile": 101 DeBartolo at 8 pm & 10:30 pm 

' 
I ' 
-I 
I 
' 
I 
' 
' 
' 
I 
I I 
I  
•  I I  
I  
J  
1  
l  
I  
..  Il  
'  
I  
I  

www.nd.edu/-sub 

,-. 
page 20 '. 
Thursday, April 27, 2000 
NFL 
Carruth murder case continues 
men are charged with first­where near the minor child 

Associated Press 
degree murder in Adams' slay­beforP the (;harges against him 
ing and are being held without are resolved creates a clear 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. bond in the Mecklenburg and present danger to the life 

Former NFL wide receiver County jail. All four could face of the minor child," Ellerbe's Rae Carruth. accused of mas­the death penalty if convicted. motion said_ terminding his girlfriend's Carruth's attorneys last week Charlotte attorney B.ill Diehl, murder and trying to kill his filed court papers asking that representing Carruth in the unborn son. 
he be permitted "limited, safe custody case, said he would should not be contact" with Chancellor. The wait until a family court hear­allowed visi­lawyers said Carruth may not ing Thursday to respond. tation rights, stand trial for his former girl­Ellerbe also is asking Judge the child's friend's mur-Yvonne Mims grandmother der for morn Evans to take says. than a year, "To let (the} defendant possession of 
Carruth 's and the baby anywhere near the minor Carruth's request "is would be more house and
child before the charges 

no more than than a year old cars to sell
Carruth 

a desperate by the ·time he against him are resolved them for attempt on might win creates a clear and child sup­his part to appear to be human acquittal. port.
present danger to the life 

and to avoid death row using Prosecutors Carruth's the verv child he has been allege that ofthe minor child." last child charged with trying to Carruth, a for­support destroy," Billie Ellerbe, an mer first­check for
Billie Ellerbe 

attorney for the grandmother. round pick of $3,000,
prosecuting attorney

said in court papers filed the Carolina dated March Monday. Panthers, was 8, was 
Ellerbe represents Saundra upset over Adams' pregnancy returned for insufficient funds, Adams, who has temporary and already was making sup­court documrnts said. custody of 5-month-old port payments for a child in Carruth's mother, Theodry, ChanCfd!or Lee Adams. His California. said she and Carruth's father mother. Cherica Adams, 24, In her court filing, Ellerbe have sent checks to cover the was shot Nov. 16 while driving noted that in addition to mur­March child support payment. in Charlotte. Doctors delivered der. Carruth is chargtid with "If Chancellor is causing a tho baby by emergency using an instrument with the hardship on Saundra, I'm CaesarPan section. Adams died intent to destroy an unborn more than willing to take care a month later. child. of my grandson without child 
Carruth. 26. and three other "To let (the) defendant any-support," she said. 
The last issue of The Observer will run Wednesday, May 3, 2000. 

ARENA FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
Marinovich arrested for sexual assault 
sions." 
Associated Press 
The alleged attack occurrf'd 
shortly after midnight Tuesday 

I.OS ANGELES at Marinovich's Marina del Hey
Quarterback Todd Marinovich apartment, said sheriff's Sgt.is expected to practice with the Norine Plett. Los Angeles Avengers of' the 
Plett said that Marinovich's Arena Football League arrest was based on the Thursday, two days after being woman's statements and evi­arrested for investigation of sex­dence of a physical examination 
ually assaulting a woman. she had at a hospital after the "Todd has berm, is now and alleged attack. will be part of this football Marinovir.h was released on team," Avengers r.oar.h Stan 
$50,000 bail at about 12:15 a.m. Brock said Wednesday during a Wednesday. Sgt. George news conference at the team's Ducoulombier West Los 
said.

"Todd has been, is now
Angeles train­Arraignment

ing facility. "In and will be part ofthis is scheduled respect to the 
football team. In respect May 16 in 
law. we have Culver City
to the law. we have to let
to let it run its 

Municipalcourse." it run its course. " Court. Marinovich is Marinovkh, scheduled to 
30. is the

Stan Brock
attend Avengers' sec­Thursday 
Avengers coach 
ond -stringmorning's quarterback.quarterbacks mc11ting and team 
lie did not play in either of prartice, Brock said. The 
their first two regular-seasonAvengers were not scheduled to games. practice Wednesday, and their Marinovich was the University 
next game is Monday against of Southern California q uartPr­Oklahoma at Staples Center. back as a redsbirt freshman on Brock said he has not talked 
the Trojans' 1990 Hose Bowl with Marinovich since the quar­
rhampion team. II<~ left school terback was asked to leave the following his sophomore s<,ason. practire field by Los Angeles The Los Angeles Haiders made County sheriff's deputies just Marinovicb their first-round 
br.f'orn his arrnsl. choice in the 1991 NFL dral't. but 
''As far as I'm concerned. peo­released him before' the 1993 ple are innocent until proven season. guilty," Brock said. ''I'm not 
Marinovich acknowledged going to jump to any conclu-drug use was a major l'aclor. 
.. 
With joy and thanksgiving the Congregation of Holy Cross and the families of: 


Hev. Terrence P. Ehrman, C.S.C. and Rev. Peter J. Pacini, C.S.C 

invite you to celebrate their ordination to the priesthood for lifelong service to the people of God. 
The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by the Most Reverend Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C., Auxiliary Bishop, Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend 

Saturday, April 29, 2000 
1:30 p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


THEY ANSWERED THE CALL! 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 20, 2000 
CAMPUS MINISTRY·· 
Ordination to the Priesthood (Congregation of the Hoty Cross) 
Saturday, April 29, 1:30 p.m,' Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Rejoice! Mass 
Sunday, April 30, 4;00 p.m. Sorin Hall 
Confirmation program .,~~ S•ora,nent of Confirmation The Most.,R&v. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C., D.D., prttsid~r Auxiliary Bishop Fort Worth Wayne,.South Bend Reception to Follow 
Monday, May 1, 7:30 P·!fl•=jQ Basilica of the Sacred Htart• 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, May 2, 7:00 p'.fl), Badin Hall Chapel 
. ff~!{§ 

Graduate Student Bible Study:,Group Wednesday, May 3, 8:QO 
p.tn. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith ChristiantNight Wednesday, May 3, 10:00,10;30 Walsh Hall Chapel 
:·· .,.·:.-:• 
. ' .. 
::-; ··\("\: \!( . \:)t!

Notre Dame HandbeU Choif'Rnc:ert.;);; Sunday, May 7, 8:00 p,m. · Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Exam Week Study Break , ,, Take a break and stop by ffiC;lon \ and coffee or Juice, Hours ar~ Mori through Wednesday -8:30 to3:30. Hours for Thursday are 8:30'~<> :12 n.oon Monday -Thursday, tv,ay 8-11 103 Hesburgh Library 


Second Sunday of Easter 
Weekend Presiders 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, April 29 Mass 
5:00 p.m. 
Rev. Michael S. Driscoll 
Sunday, April 30 Mass 
10:00 a.m. 
Rev. Mark 8. Thesing, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Patrick M. Neary, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for This Coming Sunday 
One Last Consideration ...  
~  
Jim Lies, C.S.C. [Lies.4@nd.edu]  
After four years of writing this column, this is it, one last consideration. The impending end of this academic year means different things for different  C  
people. For the seniors it obviously means something quite different than it  
does for the younger folks among us. For the faculty and staff and administra­ ~  
tors it has meaning, too. For me, personally, it is especially poignant because  
of my leavetaking for graduate school. All of us are affected by this end in  
some way. But just what do we take away with us. There was a message con­ ~  
veyed on the Senior Class Retreat three years ago which is apt for us all as we  
end the year and move in different directions for a time, maybe forever. It's a  
message that has been stabbed at in this column throughout the year. It's real­ ~  
ly the question of what really matters in the end? What's the constant that will  
hold us together in our separation and in our distance from one another?  
I'd like to think that those of you who take the time to read this column  ~  
already know. I'd like to think, actually, that it is so ingrained in the hearts  
and minds of every one of us in this community that it need not even be said.  
And yet, it would be wrong not to say it, not to proclaim it! Please God, it  ~  
won't be a shock to anyone that the one constant, the one thing that matters,  
the one thing that will hold us all together is Jesus, and the love that God  
revealed in sending him to be among us as one of us. Oh, I know it may  ~ 
sound like pius piffle, and maybe a bit ethereal, but it doesn't make it any less  
true.  
For those who call themselves Christian, there is nothing more, nothing  ~ 
else we need to cling to than that. It isn't money, or an accumulation of  
friends, or even "good times" that wili ultimately sustain us in our search for  
meaning and for happiness. It is only Jesus. Our departure from this place  
has us separated for a while, for some longer than others. But in the Lord, we  ~  
are not really separated. Just as we gather united around the table now, we will  
again. Every time we gather to celebrate the Lord's supper, wherever we are,  ~  
we gather together as one family. We are forever bound in Jesus and in Notre  
Dame. So whoever you are, whatever the circumstances around your depar­ture, whether it be for a few weeks before the summer session, or the summer  C  
months or until the first home football game, Notre Dame will always be  
home. It is not, for you seniors, an ending, but a beginning of a life more won­ 
derful and more blessed than you can now even ask for or imagine. Trust in  ~  
the Lord's love for you and pursue God with the same fervor and hope with  
which you engage every pursuit. Have faith in the God who has brought you  
this far, and who will never leave you.  ~  
From all of us at Campus Ministry may God richly bless you in these waning days of the semester and beyond; may God give you prudence, perse­ •  
verence and wisdom as you enter into the rigors of final exams. And finally, know that all are welcome at the Library Office of Campus Ministry for free coffee and donut holes during finals week. Godspeed! As gift and prayer,  • •  
especially to our seniors, we leave you with the words of Mrs. Charles  
Cowman and Mary Gorges:  
So now... we sail and something of what we may expect as we continue  
our voyage we may infer from the past. Without doubt storms will come as  
they came in the bygone days. But we will give them firm and courageous  
welcome, for we have already weathered so many storms that we are unafraid  
of the wind and the tide, the lightning and the snow.  
And so we shall -when the Voyage is completed drop anchor where no  
storms come, but where the green swell is at last in the haven dumb, and we  
are forever out of the swing of the sea.  
We have come very safely -hitherto;  
And sometimes seas were calm, and skies were blue;  
Sometimes the wild waves rose -the tempest roared;  
But never barque went down with Christ on board.  
And so it shall be to the very end ­ 
Through ebb and flow, the one unchanging friend,  
Ruling the waves which sink at his command,  
Holding them in the hollow of his hand.  

There comes an hour, when, every tempest o'er

1st Reading Acts 4; 32-35 
The harbour lights are reached, the golden shores: 

2nd Reading 1 Jn 5:Hi 
Never, oh nevermore to fret or fear ­

Gospel Jn 20: 19-31 
Christ, give us faith to praise thee even here! 
-
0)v1PUS
~INISTRY
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 27, 2000 
NHL 
Detroit, Colorado 

Contrasting styles meet in East 
renew fierce rivalry 
Associated Press 
DENVER 
They're healthy, they're rest­ed and they're playing their best hockey. What better way for the NHL's fiercest rivals, the Detroit Red Wings and Colorado Avalanche, to kick off their second-round playoff 
. •;
senes. 
Some hockey observers have suggested that the Hed Wings­Avalanche showdown, which begins here Thursday night. is, in effect, the real Stanley Cup Final, since it matches two of the teams most often touted as favorites to win the Cup. 
Colorado coach Bob Hartley tended to agree with that assessment. While insisting there arc "still tons of good hockey clubs remaining," Hartley hinted it is unfair for such contenders to be meeting so early in the playoffs. 
"We faced the Red Wings last year in Round 2 also," Hartley said Wednesday. "That's the way the schedule is. There's no sense fighting the system. We're part of the same confer­ence. and that's the way it's built." 
Such is life in the Western Conference. which clearly is the strength of the NHL this season. Each team is at the top of its game. Detroit comes to Colorado after sweeping its opening-round series with the Los Angeles Kings, finishing off that series last Wednesday. 
Colorado is 12-1-0 in its last 
1:3 games, having eliminated Phoenix 4-1 in a series that ended Friday. Both teams enter the series with no signifi­cant injuries, and Colorado's Peter Forsberg has strung together two dominating games after struggling with shoulder and other ailments. Typically, both teams insist they must raise their level of play in this series. 
"It is time right now to raise our game a notch," Avalanche goaltender Patrick Roy said. 
"We've got to play better in what's important, but I think cvervbodv is a little disappoint­ed .,,._;ith h·ow things wont. 
"We're not going to go through another series where it all depends on the specialty teams, and I think that's why we're a tittle concerned." 
In the first round. Detroit ranked seco.nd in the NHL in power-play production, scoring seven goals in 23 opportuni­ties, or :30.4 pMcent. Colorado was third at 25.9 percent. 
"We learned against Phoenix and the Red Wings learned against the Kings that the power play can he a big far.­tor," Hartley said. "They were great on power plays, and so were we. 
"This is going to be a hard­fought series. You're going to see a l.ot of body checks, but I don't think you're going to see anv undisciplined play." 
The blood-letting that was commonplace in this series in 1996 and 1997 has subsidP-d, leading to a moro civilized brand of hockey. But bad blood remains. 
"These teams don't like each other," Avalanche captain Joe Sakic said. 
Added Hartley, "There won't be any friendly games out there. We' re going to go to war, and they're going to go to war. We're going to have to fight for each inch of ice out there." · 
Colorado beat the Wings in last year's playoffs, rallying from a 2-0 deficit to win four straight games before losing in the next round to eventual champion Dallas. 
Detroit had the a.dvantage during the regular season this year, beating Colorado four times in five meetings. 
"That doesn't matter at all," Avs defenseman Aaron Miller said.."San Jose beat St. Louis {in the playoffs), and they didn't beat them all year. No one really cares about the reg­ular season anyway. We're just worried about winning four games now." 

. Devils won't team with a smothering rattle Toronto goalie Curt.is defense. Joseph, going as far as to
change 'boring' 

"When you win, nothing's threaten to •·camp out" in thestyle against high­boring," said Holik, a mem­Leafs goal crease. The Maple ber or the 1995 Stanley Cup Leafs' challenges are main­
flying leafs 

championship Devib team taiI1ing discipline and c:reat­that patented the trapping ing enough offensive opportu­Associated Press style. "Even the fans, no mat­nities. 
ter where you go, they like "We have to cut down on 
TORONTO winning. If at the ,~n<l of the our mistakes, es1rncially on 
The debate on whether day you win, then every­the blue line," Sundin said. 
speed beats del'ense has 

body's happy." "We have to get the puckraged f'nr years. Toronto and No one's happy just yet. deep and try to play dePp and New Jersey will try to settle it The Devils have had a week use our speed, hopefully cre­in their second-round series. 
to rest, coming off a four­ate enough chances on The Leafs, who play host to game first-round sweop of Brodm1r to score some goals
the Devils when the best-of­

the Florida Panthers. It's on him." seven series t h c i r The two teams are meeting
begins 

c h a I -for the first time in the play­Thursday, sit 
lengo to offs. The Leafs hold the all­
"When you win. nothing
firmly in the 

I' i n d time regular-season edge
offonsive cor­is lwring ... ljat the end 

enough going 40-23-16 against ;\Jew ner. ofthe day you win,, offense, Jersey, including ::l-0-1 this 
"It's not for 

while at season. Not much, however,
everybody's happy." 
me to decide 

the same separated the two teams in how the game t i m e the standings as both teams should be Bobby Holk shutting won 45 games.
played. I'm 

Devils player cl o w n The Devils are minus Sergeionly a guy who 
Brylin (kneel while forward 
tries to get his a
.Jason Arnott is nursing own guys lo Toronto's big guns. sore wrist but should play.
play a certain way," coach 

The Leafs' line of Steve The Maple Leafs are bangedPat Quinn said following 
Thomas, Mats Sundin and up, missing Yanic Perreault practice Wednesday. "It Jonas Hoglund is particularly (knee) Nik Antropov (knee)(offensively) is the way that I 
intimidating, accounting for and Bryan Berard (eye).
like and hopefully (the play­

1 O of the 17 goals Toronto "We know they're a very
ers) like too. It happens to be scored in eliminating Ottawa explosive hockey club and just a different philosophical 
in six games. Second-liner have lots of offense," said the approach." Defense is also a 
Sergei Berezin is no slouch Devils' Alexander Mogilny. part of the Leafs' game, he either, coming off a 26-goal "We can't afford to start 
said. 

regular season, plus three in doing run-and-gun hockey
"It's not as if the Toronto 

the playoffs. with those guys. We just want 
Maple Leafs don't have to 

"They're a team that's to make sure we're playing
check to win. We do," Quinn 

going to score goals. It our game, sound defensive­
..

said. "We just don't want to !
doesn't matter how well y.fall back and be the Maginot we're going to play defensive­Countered Toronto's DarcyLine. We want to try to do it 
ly, they have the talent to put Tucker: "Good defense is in a different fashion." the puck in the net," Devils' g'ood offense s'omet'i'mes. In other·words. not the way 
goalie Martin Brodeur said. We're trying to make that our New .Jersey plays. which 
"We have to minimize that as thing for this series. to play many purists -especially in much as we can and get some in their end of the ice and-not 
Canada -consider to be on 

momentum on our side so mur,h in our end. the snoring side of boring. 
defensively." Hopeful,\y, that will be our The Devils' Bobby Holik The Dnvils will also try to defense. makes no apologies for a 
See Friday's Observer for a preview · of the Blue and Gold Game. 
the next series to advance,"------------------------------------------------------.
Red Wings center Steve Yzcrman said. "Everything tightens up, everything picks up another step." 
Teammate Brendan Shanahan agreed. "As the playoffs go on, you've got to 

Summer Storage *
improve." Shanahan said "The 
in tensity and the pressure of 
the games increase and your 

-
competition gets better and 
No need to take your sweaters, coats more desperate. Each year we 
& comforters 
won the Cup, we got better as each round went on." home for the summer m 
Defenseman Larry Murphy sounded a word of warning. "If you took away all our power­
St. Michael's Laundry 

play goals and empty-net * 
goals, it (Kings series) would Summer Storage Program
* 
be a prntty tight series," 

Murphy said. begins Monday April 17 -May 12, 2000 
"We got through it and that's 

Bring all items to be cleaned & stored to the Bundle Distribution Center (on campus). ERASMUS BOOKS All stored items must be cleaned at the normal (over-the-counter) 
processing charge plus a $7.00 storage fee.
-Used books bought and sold 
-2 5 Ca tcgories of !looks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback 

You m~y apply these charges to: 
bo,,ks in stock 
Out-of-Print search service: $2.00 
your student account 
-Appraisals large and sm;ill 
*
* * your laundry contract 
OPEN NOON TO SIX TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 

or next semester's laundry contract 
1027 E. WAYNE SOUTH BEND, IN 46618 (219) 232-8444 

Please call 631-7565 for additional information * 
Thursday, April 27, 2000 
NBA 
Ankle injury benches Hill for playoffs 
As<ociatcd Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mirh. 

The season is over for Grant Iii!!. The rest of the Detroit Pistons might not be far behind. 
Doctors said Wednesday that llill has a fractured left ankle that will need eight weeks to heal. That means the Pistons· lead­ing scorer will have to sil out the rest of the NBA playofls. 
The announcement came less than a day after the Pistons lost 84-82 to Miami to fall behind 0­2 in the best-of-five first-round series. Game 3 is Saturday at The Palace. 
"I felt it at some point in the first half." Hill said during a news r.onf P.rence at The Palace. "I tried to go back out, but it hurt. All I can do now is try to get healthy and see what hap­pens." Hill, weaz:ing blue sweat pants and a gray pullover shirt, had his head bowed as he hob­bled into the news conference on a pair of aluminum crutches. Team physician Ben Paolucci said Hill won't need to wear a casl while lhe break heals. 
Dr. Hobert Teitge. the team's orthopedic specialist. said play­ing on the already sore foot p·r.obably didn't caus@ this injury. "You can speculate, but probably not." Teitge said. 
Hill picked up the bone bruise late in the regular season, miss­ing the team's final three games. He playPd Saturday in the first 


. 
ASSISTANT 
Positions Available in the 
TRADER 
New York City Area 
HUMAN 
RESOURCES 
ASSISTANT 
•  OUTSTANDING ENTRY-LEVEL OPPORTUNITIES  
•  FULL MEDICAUDENTAL BENEFITS IMMEDIATELY  
•  COMPETITIVE SALARY  
•  GREAT WORK ENVIRONMENT  


PLEASE FAX RESUME: 201-499-8775 -OR­SEND RESUME TO HR@ONU.COM 
www.gshold.com 
GSHold.com, is the parent company of On-Line Investment Services Inc. which is located in Jersey City, New Jersey. 
playoff game at Miami. scoring 
13 points, but was clearly in 
pain. However, treatment and 
anti-inflammatory medication 
had Hill feeling better by 
Monday. He had a good practice 
and said he was ready to go. 
"It was my decision to play," 
llill said. "Monday, I felt rnally 
good," he said. "[t was probably 
one of the best praclices I've 
had in months. I was running 
around, running through 
screens. I had high energy." J\nd 
the second game startrd reason­
ably well. Hill sank his first 
three shots in the opening five 
minutes. Sometime after that, 
however, Hill said he felt some­
thing go pop. "I have no idea 
when I heard the pop," Hill said. 
"If I watch the tape and watch 
myself. I probably could figure 
out when it happened. 
"You know. the adrenaline 
was flowing. I was pumped up 
pretty good." 
The All-Star forward was 
hurting so badly in the second 
half that he could no longer 
play. Still. he tried. "Even at tlte 
beginning of the third quarter, I 
said, 'Let me give it one more 
try,'"Hill said. 
He hopped to the bench 3:30 
into the third quarter and 
kicked the back of a chair in 
frustration. "It was painful to 
watch him," interim coach 
George Irvine said. 
Hill scored nine points in 21 
minutes. "Nobody should ever 
question this man's r,ourage," 
Irvine said. "We knew we were ;(taking a c:hance. But he wanted 
io be out there." 
Neither Hill nor the two doc­
tors could predir,t whether this 
injury might keep off the 
Olympic: basketball team this 
fall. 

The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Nets miss playoffs, fire coach 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERPORD, N.J. 
Don Casey was firnd Wednesday as coach of the New Jersey Nets in the first move of an expected house­cleaning by the team. General manager John Nash and presi­dent Michael Rowe also are in dan­ger of losing their jobs after the Nets (31-51J misseathe play­offs for the second straight year. 
Principal owner Lewis Katz said no decision has been reached on their futures. Casey. who never got the Nets turned around after replacing John Calipari on March 15, 1999, went 44-68 in 1 1/2 years. 
"It was a very difficult deci­sion to make because Casey had been a friend of mine for more than three decades," Katz said. 
Casey, 62, did not immedi­ately return a telephone call left at his home by The Associated Press. By making the move a week after the end of the regular season, the team will save $1.3 mil­lion, since the second vear of the contract Casey signed on June 25 was not guaranteed. 
Katz also announced New Jersey would hire a director of basketball operations. 
Hall of Farner Julius Erving. an executive vice president with the Orlando Magic and former Nets star, is being considered for that 


new position, the Orlando a 2-15 start and a 2-14 fin­SentinPl reported Tuesday. ish. which was capped by a 
There also are several can­season-ending 11-game los­didates for the coaching job, ing streak. including NBA grnat Isiah A big part of the problem Thomas; St. John's coach was injuries. Former All-Star Mike Jarvis: Utah coach Rick center Jayson Williams Majerus; Lenny Wilkens, who missed the entire season recently quit as coach of the because of a knee injury and Atlanta Hawks; former play­broken leg on April 1, 1999. er Maurice Cheeks; and for­in a game against Atlanta. mer Net Rick Mahorn. Shooting guard Kerry Kittles 
The Nets will probably try was bothered all season by a to get a high-profile coach to knee injury. improve their tarnished Casey also could not get his 
i  m  a  g  e  ,  team  to win  
which is what they tired to do last year. They went after Phil .Jackson after  "It was a very difficult decision to make because Casey had been afriend ofmine for more than three decades. "  close games. It was 10-24 in games decided by five points or less. Still. Stephon  
Casey  fin­ Marbury and  
ished out Calipari's season in  Lewis Katz Nets' principal owner  Keith Van Horn helped the Nets post  

1999 with a 13-17 record, but the former Chicago Dulls coach signed with the Los Angeles Lakers. Casey will stay with the Nets doing charitable and commu­nity work. The contracts of assistant coaches Jim Lynam, Eddie Jordan and Mike O'Koren will expire in June. 
The firing of Casey has been expected for weeks, not only because the injury­plagued Nets struggled this season but also because Katz was reportedly under pres­sure from YankeeNets, the joint operation that oversees the Nets and Yankees. The sports and entertainment regional power was con­cerned about securing future TV contracts if the Nets were not an attractive product. 
New Jersey showed poten­tial at times this season, but the team could not overcome 

a 27-22 record in the middle of the season, a run that got New Jersey within striking dis­tance of the eighth and final playoff berth in the Eastern Conference. 
However, late-season injuries to Marbury and Kittles ended their playoff hopes. 
"I want to thank the Nets ownership for giving me the opportunity to coach the team," Casey said. "I strongly believe the Nets have a bright future." 
Casey spent much of the last week fending off ques­tions about his expected fir­ing. 
Since joining the NBA in 1976, the Nets have changed coaches 12 times. including five times since 1989. They have made the playoffs 10 times in that period, making it past the first round only 
MARKETING INTERNSHIP 
Family Ventures, LLC of Northbrook, IL is seeking an undergraduate Summer Intern with an interest in web-based marketing. Family Ventures is launching a national magazine later this year which celebrates and encourages family life. E-mail resumes to John Madigan ('84) at info@becomingfamily.com 

once and never past the sec­ond. 
The head coaching job was the second for Casey in the league. He took over the Clippers from Gene Shue during the 1988-89 season and went 41-85 in 1 1/2 years. A former coach at Temple, Casey joined the NBA in 1982 as an assistant with Chicago and then spent a year as a head coach in Italy. 
NOTRE DAME 
-
POMSQUAD 
will be holding try-outs for the 2000-01 season 
TODAY APRILl7 
at the JACC auxiliary gym 
. (the Pit) 
Come ready to dance at 
the 
first clinic. 
Thursday, April 27, 2000
The Observer . SPORTS

page 24
r 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Strength of hitters, multitude of homers worries Selig 
Associated Press 
With America in the throes of its biggest home-run epi­demic ever, baseball commis­sioner Bud Selig is pleading for calm. 
"Let's just see how this plays out," he said. 
Nearly everywhere and every moment the game is on TV. some­body goes deep. In one seven­game homestand, Toronto and two visitors divvied up :n home runs. Earlier this month, a record 57 left the yard in one day's worth of games. Sunday, two switch-hitting Yankees each homered from both sides of the plate. Old­timers regard these as signs of the apocalypse. 
"Of course we have con­cerns," Selig said from his Milwaukee home. "We always have concerns. But at this stage we're just sitting back and monitoring." 
Selig just hired scientists to take a fresh look at the base­ball. But Liz Daus, spokes­woman for Rawlings, the Fenton, Mo.-based sporting goods manufacturer, said that won't yield anything new. 
"They're made in the same place with the same materials and the same way since we shifted production to our 

Costa Rica plant 10 years ago," she said. 
But even as Selig talked on the telephone Tuesday night, Arizona wrapped up a 10-2 win over the Phillies with Kelly Stinnett hitting two home runs. It was the second time he managed the feat in a few days. There was a time when Stinnett had trouble cracking an egg -provided it was thrown off a mound. In his first 168 big-league games, he had six HRs. Two years ago, he hit 11 in 92 games; then 14 in 88 games last sea­son. 
This year, Stinnett showed 
up for camp with 225 pounds 
layered on a buffed 5-foot-11 
frame. He has six 1-IRs in his 
last 40 at-bats. 
"I worked my tail off in the 
offseason to get stronger and 
it's paying off," he said. 
There wouldn't be cause for 
alarm if Stinnett were the only 
unknown closing in on proven 
long-ball performers like Mark 
McGwire, Sammy Sosa and 
Ken Griffey Jr. Instead, the 
opposite is true. 
American League leader 
Jermaine Dye had just 51 
home runs in his first four 
seasons and 27 last season. He 
bas nine already. Kansa~ City 
teammate Mike Sweeney had 
41 the last four years and 2 2 
last season. He's got seven this 
month. 
A few more hitters with sim­
ilar numbers and stories: Tony 
Battista, Jose Cruz Jr., and 
Geoff Jenkins. Remember 
those names: they're all on 
pace to hit 50 homers. not a corresponding advantage Suddenly, the half-century available to pitchers. It doesn't club never felt less exclusive. help them to got much bigger 
S t  C  V  e  and  they  
Hirdt of Elias Sports Bureau, one of the savvi­est statisti­cal analysts around, has heard the  "What strikes me as non-cyclical is that hitters have an incentive to bulk up -more weight-training and dietary supplements -and there's not a corresponding  can't be throwing y e a r -round." He paus­es. "The dif­ference is  
whispers about this b e l n g choreo­ advantage available to pitchers. Steve Hirdt  noticeable already. If you took team pic­ 
g r a p h e d ,  statistical analyst, Elias Sports Bureau  tures with  

about Selig reckoning 
that if one McGwire-Sosa duel sells tickets, dozens of them will sell plenty more. 
The reason Hirdt believes no one is pulling strings is because there's no need. Now, every job in baseball pays so well that homA runs are included in the job descrip­tion. 
In the old days, only home­run hitters drove Cadillacs. These days, middle infielders give them to personal trainers for Christmas. 
1-Iirdt sees all the usual 
accomplices being blamed for 
the power surge: juiced base­
balls, shrinking ballyards, 
pitching thinned by expansion, 
even dense Canadian hard­
wood in bats. Onlv one trend 
genuinely troubles ·him. 
"What strikes me as non­
cyclical is that hitters have an 
incentive to bulk up -more 
weight-training and dietary 
supplements -and there's the shirts 
off," Hirdt said, "you'd have no trouble telling the 14 position players apart from the 11 pitchers." 
Last season was the game's most prolific by any measure -5,528 HRs in all, an aver­age of 2.3 per game. This sea­son, the average is 2.6 per game, a pace that would yield 6,800 home runs. 
Selig is hoping a handful of big-name pitchers will return from injury soon and bring the 

Zoomculture.com 

opr,I}· at: 
www.zoomculture.com/internship 

numbers back in line. Other people see days of warmer weather and worn-out pitch­ers ahead and believe they will only get more skewed. 
While the commissiorrnr talks about the baseball, oth­ers think he should consider raising the mound, forcing umpires to earn their keep by calling strikes and giving pitchers a half-chance to get through an inning unscathed. 
They mean that literally. 

.Making home runs seem dull may not be baseball's worst problem. 
The gap between the mound and batter's box seems to be narrowing and a few pitchers already suffered broken bones after being hit with line drives_ 
It's no longer just their pride 

that's getting hurt. 
Cam usVibe.com 
is seeking correspondents in the fields of Marketing & Videography. 
Marketing Interns 
must be able to develop and implement advertising and marketing campaigns to reach your campus community. 
Video Correspondents 
must be able to furnish on edited 
final product in the areas of music, 
student film, sex on campus, etc... 
?? Interested ?? 
For more details go to: 
www.campusvibe.com/intern 
Support Habitat for Humanity in 


J&IL Jaur PRDFBSSDBS JAIL Jaur RECTOR 

-
FridaJ, April 28, 1pm -8pm South Quad Flag Pala 

Sign-ups:.Thursday in the dining halls or Check out www.nd.edu/----habitat
* Special thanks to our sponsor Aays Rental 



Thursday, April 27, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Sprewell saves in Knick of time 
. Forward scores with 1.9 seconds to steal win 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Latrnll Sprnw<lll took Vince Carter one-on-one, and Carter Look a pass 
on taking thf' last s h o t Sprnwrll outdid Carter down the strrtrh 
Wednesday 


night, sr,or-Spreewell ing 13 of !\cw York's final 17 points ­inducting the game winner 
with 7.9 seconds !Pft ~ as the Knicks came back from a 14­point deficit in the fourth quar­
ter to beat Toronto 84-83. 
Carter had a chance to take the fiual shut. and it looked likt' he was going to put it up when he left. his feet from 25 feet away with three seconds left. But he passed to Dee Brown for an open 3-pointer from the wing. 
The shot was long. the Knicks rebounded and walked off with a 2-0 lead in the best­of-five series. Sprewell fin­ished with 25 points and com­bined with Larry Johnson to score 21 of the Knicks' final 
25. Game 3 is Sunday in Toronto. 
Carter rebounded from his ghastly 3-for-20 effort in Game I and led the Haptors with 27 points, but he was unable to 
Please Reycle The Observer. 

THE 
SUMMER SERVICE 
PROJECT 
Universityof Notre Dame 
• 
Three elective Theo Credits 

• 
Eight Weeks, $1700 Scholarship 

• 
Additional $1,181 in Americorps Award available CALL THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS WITH QUESTION AT 631-7867 


stop Sprewell man-to-man as New York kept running the same play in the final few min­utes. 
On the deciding play, Sprewell got the ball isolatml on the right wing against Carter and drove to his right, pulling up in the lane for a short jumper that gave the Knicks their first lead since the second minute of thc game. 
With teammates hugging him at midcourt while Toronto called timeout, Sprcw!'ll plead­ed with them to play defense, yelling OOne stop!O 
The Raptors were able to inbound to Carter. who won four games during the regular season with buzzer-beating shots. But his in-air decision to pass to Brown turned out to be the wrong one. Johnson scored eight straight points for the Knicks midway through the fourth quarter to help cut a 14-point deficit to three, and Sprewell scored New York's next 11 points on three jump(\rS -including a 3-point­er -and four foul shots to give the Knicks their first ti.e since early in tho first quarter, 
78-78. 
Muggsy Bogues hit a 3-point­er from the corner with 1: 33 left and Patrick Ewing dunked to make it 81-80 heading into the final minute. Carter and Allan Houston each hit a pair of free throws before Carter missed a 3-pointer with 25.6 seconds left and the Raptors leading 83-82. 
Ewing had 19 points, Houston 12 and Johnson 11 for the Knicks, who got their act together in the fourth quarter 

SOC(AL CONCERNS 
Over 30 Sites Open! 
~ Buffalo, New York -(Local Student) ~ Columbus, Georgia -Small home for homeless men ., Dallas, Texas -Brady Center for Kids -(male) ~ Delaware -Sojourner's Place (live on site)°" Dubuque, Iowa -Camp for kids with physical problems ~ Ft Wayne, Indiana -Matthew 25/Clinic for low income ~ Ft Worth, Texas -Habitat for Humanity/kids ~ Grand Rapids, MI -Clinic for MigrantWorkers (Spanish) ~ Harrisburg, PA-Interfaith Family Shelter ~ Houston. Texas -Catholic Charities ~ Kansas City, Kansas -Catholic Worker House (male) 
Don Bosco Center -variety ~ Kokomo, Indiana-Home for women (female) ~ Marion, Indiana -Family Services/Emergency Shelter ~ Poughkeepsie, NY •Good Counsel Home for pregnant teens ~ LaPorte, Indiana -Sharing Meadows/Diabilldes camp ror adults "'Muskegon, Ml-Every Women's Place/Young teen program ~ Nashville, TN -Oasis Center for troubled teens "' Northern Michigan -Fr. Fred Foundatioo/Emergeocy services ~ Jacksonville, Florida -L' A.rche Home lj Rochester, New Yorlc -Home/c:linic for pregnant teens ~ Peoria, Illinois -(local) Guardian Angel Home (kids) ~ Springfield, Massa!:husetts • Food Bank IJ San Diego, California -Disabilities/Job Training ~ San Francisco, California • Andre House (male) ~ South Dakota -Small sbelters/reserViltion camp IJ Norwalk, CollllCCticut -Transitional shelter "' Ventura. California -Emergency Services 
after playing with a noticeable lack of intensity in the first three quarters to draw boos from the S()llout crowd. 
Unlike Game 1, the Raptors looked relaxed in the opening quarter as they quickly took a comfortable lead. A dunk by Tracy McGrady made the score 20-11 as Toronto hit eight of its first 11 shots. and a layup by KPvin Willis at thP buzzer gave the Raptors their first double-digit lead, 26-15. 
The Knicks' problems got worse earlv in the second quarter as they committed six turnovers in the first three minutes and fell behind 32-17 on a jump hook by Willis. New York then found some of the defensive intensity that had been missing and held Toronto without a field goal fur almost seven minutP,S. 
A 3-pointer by Sprewell off an offensive rebound cut the Knicks defirit to 36-34 with 
1:04 left before halftime and got the crowd revved up for the first time, but Charlrs Oakley answered with a 3­pointer, Marcus Camby missed two foul shots and Carter hit a turnaround jumper to give Toronto a 41-34 lead at inter­mission. 
Carter grabbed a loose ball under the basket and dunked it for a 48-37 lead early in the third, and a smattering of boos was heard when the Knicks called timeout with 8:03 left following a jumper by Antonio Davis that made it 50-37. 
It was 67-55 entering the fourth, and 69-55 after a jump hook by Willis before the Knicks began their comeback. 
page 25 
BOXING 

Grant predicts 10th round knockout 
. Lewis refuses to enter knockout prediction 
A;;;;ociated Press 
NEW YORK 
Michael Grant believes he knows how his challengn to heavyweight champion Lennox LC w is IBF will end. 
Heavyweight
"If you 
Championship
ask me to make a predic-. Lennox Lewisvs. 
tion ... the 10th Michael Grant round 
. Madison Square
has been 
Garden
v e r y good to . Saturday m e , " 
. 10:30 p.m
Grant said. 
Two Grant's last three vic­tories were on 10th-round technical knockouts. In the last one, he got up from two first-round knockdowns and beat Andrew Golota on Nov. 
20. Lewis says he doesn't know the script. But he knows the ending of the 12­round fight Saturday night at Madison Square Garden. 
"I never make any predic­tion in my fights," Lewis 

s a i d "Every time I step into 
Wednesday at 

the ring it is a serious
the final news 

conference. fight. When you've got a 
"The only man weighing 250 prediction I 
pounds trying to take
will make is that Lennox 

your head off, you've got Lewis will he to be serious." 
victorious." The cham­

Lennox Lewis
pion from Britain then heavyweight champion 
made another prediction. 
"My next fight after this fight will defi­nitely be in England," he said. 
He added that he was not slighting Grant (31-0, 22 knockouts). 
"Every time I step into the ring it's a serious fight, "said the 34-year-old Lewis. "When you have a man weighing 250 pounds trying to take your head off, you've got to be seri­ous." 
The 27-year-old Grant stands 6-foot-7, two inches taller than Lewis. lie weighed from 250 to 256 pounds in his last five fights, and he is expected to be at least 250 al the official weigh-in Thursday. 
Lewis (35-1-1, 27 knock­outs) weighed 242 when he outpointed Evander llolyfield in their rematch Nov. 20, and he is expected to weigh in that range again. By the time of the 5 p.m. EDT weigh-in, a squabble of gloves should be settled. 
Lewis said Reyes gloves will be worn. Grant said he has a problem with thP-m. 
"Michael says the gloves don't fit his hands,"Lewis said. "I find that hard to believe, because he doesn't have bigger hands than me." 
"I tried on 16 pairs, "Grant said. "If they want to come up with another 16, OK. My right hand fits well, but my l.eft is uncomfortable, If we can use Reyes, OK. If not we have a problem." 
It's the kind of problem that can be solved when a fighter is guaranteed a reported S4 million and is getting at 
chance at becoming heavy­weight champion. 
Lewis reportedly is guaran­teed $10 million. The fight will be the fourth on a pay­per-view (TVKO) telecast beginning at 9 p.m. The main even is expected to start about 11 :30 p.m. 
Preceding the heavyweight title fight will be an IBF feath­erweight championship 
with a 12-round heavyweight bout between Wladimir Klitschko (32-1, 30 knock­outs) of Ukraine, and David Bostice (21-1-1, 12 knock­outs) of Mesa, Ariz. The other bout will be a 10-round wel­terweight match between Arturo Gatti (31-4. 26 knock­outs) of Jersey City, N.J., and Eric Jakubowski of Whiting, Ind. 
The New York State Athletic Commission has ordered the weigh-ins ror Ingle-Jones. Gatti-Jakubowski and othor non-heavywoight fights on thP card to held at 8 a.m. Saturday. This decision ups(~t both Ingle and Jonrs. 
defense by Paul Ingle (22­1, 15 knock­outs) of England against Junior J o n e s (47-4, 27 knock­outs) of Brooklyn, 
N.Y. 
T h e telecast will open 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 27, 2000 
BooKSTORE BASKETBALL XXIX 
No. 1 Keyplay.com, No. 2 NDToday.com lead Sweet 16 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assosciatc Sports Ediror 
538 teams entered Bookstore Basketball XXIX. Some entered for the fun, knowing that their lack of basketball ability would send them to the sidelines within the first couple rounds. Others signed up to take part in a gmat campus tradition, more intent on putting on a show for their friends than advancing in the tourney. But a few teams were aiming for something higher. the pride of win­ning the title in the largest collegiate cam­pus competition. 
For 16 squads in the 2000 competition, that goal remains intact. The round of the SweN 16 gets underway today, and tht:1 number of teams left standing will be whittled down to one by Sunday. 
Keyplay.com and NDToday.com rank as the consensus favorites to make it to the finals. 
No. 1-rnnked Kcyplay .com boasts four players who return from la.<;t year's Final Four tParn that lost to 
"Paul [Moornl is our basketball knowl­edge. Jlc's our brains." Dietrich said. "We have good overall ball-handling. and obvi­ously we have one big guy in Teasdale who helps us a lot in the middle." 
Looking to stand in the way of Keyplay.com's run at the title b the sec­ond-seeded team NDToday com. 
After playing on several teams in past vears, B.J. Kloska, Todd Titus. Tim Muething. David Mikoiyzk and Mark Godish pulled iogctber to form a solid five-man squad. 
"We have really good team chemistry," Godish said. "We've been playing together for a long time." 
NDToday.com had no trouble making its way to the Sweet 16. sending home the Free Ballers with a 21-8 defeat Tuflsday. The guys. however, expect things to pick up now that the tournament has pared down to the cream of the crop. 
"All the teams in the top 16 a.re good," Titus said. "It's dr:tinitely a whole <)nother level of competition. We're not looking 
past any teams." 
The No. 2-seeded

eventual champion "We want Jimmy Dillon. 
NDToday.com will

Malicious Prosecution ­
We want his head on a face off against a

Paul Moore. Cas 
group of guys from

Schneller. Tom Dietrich stake. I think Coco Butter is 
ivloreau Seminary in

and football player John 
the team to beat.,, 
Nunr, Dimittus at

Teasdale. Moore. 
7:45 p.m.

Schneller and Dietrich all 
"We need to focus

played together two yPars Red Croker 
on defense, and

ago for Your Mom. a Coco Butter 
make sure that wr

squad that lost to tourna­
. play the way that we

ment winner PHIME­
TI'VIE. After two years bowing out just short of victory. Keyplay.com wants to taste triumph. 
"The last two years we lost in the Final Four." Dietrich said. "Hopefully we'll put it together. We know what each other is thinking and we know what reads each guy is making. We just have to play up to our potential, take everybody seriously and make sure we play well as a team together." 
The lone newcomer to Keyplay.com is no slouch either -the top-ranked team picked up the starting point guard from this year's Notre Dame basketball team in senior Jimmy Dillon. 
"My original intent wasn't to play at all," Dillon said. "I missed signups and I had 80 different people asking me to play. Once teams were released they realized that I wasn't playing. But then John [Teasdale] and I are pretty good friends. and I got an opportunity to play with some of the other kids that have been part of the tournament for years." 
Today, Dillon will get the opportunity to play against an opponent he knows better than any other in the tournament ­Fighting Irish teammate Skylard Owens, who leads Sexual Frustration V. 
"Ifs kind of neat for teammates to be playing against one another." Dillon said. "We've all three [Todd Palmer, Owens and myself] got a chance to play one another. We wanted to get a shot against the coaches, but I guess they're not good enough to make it that far." 
Luckily Dillon doesn't have to worry about running extra wind sprints in prac­tice next year, as he joked about his for­mer coaches· ability. Several Fighting Irish coaches played in this year's Bookstore tourney, but the last one was knocked out by Sexual Frustration V Tuesday. 
"Who would have thought we'd be squaring up against each other this early?" Owens asked. "With me, I don't care who I'm going up against. I just want to go out there and play hard." 
Owens. playing on the No. 16 team. would love to bounce Keyplay.com from the tournament. 
"A lot of people don't have much respect for our team," Owens said. "So we just want to go out and prove people wrong. We'll just have to play good perimeter defense and make sure we box out." 
But Keyplay.com has other ideas. "We're ranked No. 1 for a reason," Dillon said. "They have us out there as the 
team to beat, and we feel that we can do that." 
The veteran Bookstore players have not yet been tested, winning their last game in a 21-2 romp. 
know we can play, rather than focusing on the other team," Titus said. 
Although NDToday.com knows its got several games to go before the title round, it's hoping for a shot at the championship, 
"I think we have as good a shot as any­bodv," Godish said. 
Third-ranked Franchise made a leap in the rankings from their original seeding of fifth, and hopes to defend the boost against No. 14 The Torch. The Franchise Squad of Dan Reidy. Steve Craig, Kevin Muempfer, Dan Lustig and Matt Canna has been playing together all year, and won't go down easy. 
Craig played on PRIMETIME the past three years, winning one championship and making it to the Final Four each of the other two tourneys. Canna and Lustig also have some round of 32 experience, as Canna's squad beat out Lustig's for a Sweet 16 slot a year ago. 
"Personally, right now I think it's a two­horse race between Keyplay.com and NDToday.com," Craig said. "The rest of us are just kind of fighting. For our team to have a chance, we have tu play smart. We're kind of small, so we need to beat their guy to the glass. We need to take our time and make five or six passes down the floor." 
Shooting is a strength for Franchise. 
"One thing we do have is five pretty decent shooters," Craig said. "Lustig and Muernpfer are our outside threats. Matt Canna can also shoot it out there. All of us are very capable from 15 feet in." 
In taking on The Torch, Franchise will benefit from the absence of Torch player Matt Thompson, who will miss the remaining games because he is throwing for the track and field team in the Drake Relays. The Torch still plays a physical style of game. which will lead Franchise to turn to its shooting. 
"They're real physical," Muempfer said, "So we'll have to hit on the outside shots." Fourth-ranked Coco Butter will be test­
ed by No. 13 Double Down in a 9:15 p.m. match. 
Coco Butter brings more varsity athletes to the court than any other team left in the tourney. John Owens, Lee Lafayette and Tony Fisher all play football. while Red Croker, Doug Conners and Marshaun West are on the Notre Dame track and field team. West will miss the next three rounds due to competing in the Drake Relays. According to Croker, everyone on Coco Butter was recruited to play basket­ball out of high school, making them a tal­ented and confident crew. 
"We're very confident," Croker said. "We know that if we play well, we don't fear any teams at all. We're a fast-break­ing team, and we press full court the whole time." 
Coco Butter is already looking ahead to 
a potential match with top-ranked Keyplay.com in the semifinals. 
"We want Jimmv Dillon. We want his head on a stake;•" Croker said. "I think Coco Butter is the team to beat. But Keyplay is the team that matches up best with us." 
Double Down plans to work double-time to upset an over-confident Coco Butter. 
"We're looking forward to playing," captain Coley Brady said. "We're pretty confident and we think we have a good chance to win." 
No. 5 Versatility and No. 12 Rampage square oIT at 8:30 p.m. tonight. 
James Cochran, Chris Dillon. Ross Hansen, Jason Childress and Joe Lillis play for Versatility, a squad ranked third in the early going of the 

well. I think Gary Godsey is key. He's real­ly athletic for a person his size. He pretty much opened things up in the second half last game to win it." 
Sixth-ranked Majesties takes on No. 11 Fueled by Hate (formerly Dexy's Midnight Runners) in an 8:30 p.m. game. 
Corey Hartmann and Justin Heberle lead Majesties into action, while Notre Dame basketball senior Todd Palmer caps off Fueled by Hate, a tea,m rounded out by Matt DeDominicis, Jim Moravek. John Lally and Steve Kovatis. 
Fueled by Hate found itself in a 10-2 deficit in its last game against Guided by Voices, before battling back to win 22-20. 
In a match between the F-Bombs and Mourning Wood, the No. 7 F-Bombs hope to defend their advantage 
tourney. They stormed in the rankings. The team
"They have us as the
past Team 126 to get to of Dan Kirzeder, Doug the Sweet 16, winning team to beat, and we feel Bartels, Sean McCarthy, 21-6. Kevin O'Neill and Andy
that we can do that. " 
"It's probably our Sexton held off Manual defense that sets the Steering 21-9 in the tone of our games," Jimmy Dillon round of 32. Cochran said. "It looks Keyplay.com The final game in the like we've got a pretty Sweet 16 will pit No. 8 tough bracket ahead of Please Call Us Bosephus us." against No. 9 Like Whoa. 
The five Versatility players got experi­Brian Ostick, Andy Bozzelli, Pat O'Brien, ence playing together as Keough residents Jason Sullivan and Evan Maher are the a year ago. All but Hansen played on the five freshmen playing for Please Call Us 1999 Bookstore runners-up squad. Bosephus. All but O'Brien live in Alumni, 
Rampage features three varsity football and the five have been playing together players in Jim Molinaro and quarterbacks all year long. Arnez Battle and Gary Godsey. Those "One of our strong points is we're a three are joined by Will Matthews and pretty balanced team. All five guys pose a Tom Juntunen. Having three football threat," O'Brien said. "We're going to players helps Rampage by giving it size. need to keep playing defense and but keeps them from getting practice time rebound.'' together. Like Whoa features three football play­
"Our strengths are our size," Matthews ers in Deke Cooper, Benny Guilbeaux and said. "The shortest guy on our team is 6-Jay Johnson, joined by soccer player foo t-2. We've got two big guys right Reggie McKnight and one non-varsity ath­around 6-6, 6-8. I think one of our weak­lete. nesses is football practice. Last game they "We never get to play together because came right from practice. so usually we all have practice schedules and school they're tired or banged up." on top of that. That's some of the dynam­
Rampage plans to mix things up ics that come with being athletes," between shooting and penetration. McKnight said. "Dcke and Jay are really 
"We need to penetrate through their athletic guys who get some rebounds for defense and use our size to our advan­us and score some points. Everybody's tage. If we come out in a real good defen­going to have to stay healthy." sive set in the first half. we should be in 16 teams. Four days of games. Only one good shape," Matthews said. "Tom's a will remain standing. real good shooter. He's been real effective It's Bookstore XXIX, and anything can from outside. Arnez runs things pretty happfln. 
~Tr()!fl, t1t ~"'\.,.,,,\,. \ ·,11·, Thursday, April 27, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Welsh rivalry sparks final eight 
By BRIAN BURKE Spurts Wntet 
It is now down to eight, and tonight at 7 p.m. the women's Bookstorr. Baskotball tourna­uwnt will be narrowed down l'urth,\r to set up the Final Four. llighligbting tlrn action is an inlriguing ganw bntween tlw third-srPded Playmates Who Can Play and the sixth­SP('drd No Nam11 But Cot Gann•. pitting i11tPrliall team­
"D(ifinitely quickness," said Lichon. 
The top seed remaining in the fi,dd . .IAAKE has cruised into the round of eight aud will face the eighth seed, Richie Prahn Club. 
"We work really well as a team. We try not to lflt person do all the scoring," Amy A11<lnrsun of JAAKE said. "Wn're up to thn task. but we've only played two games and at least today we had a 
big height 
advantage." 

mates against "/ think we're definitely M a r v each other in a Lenzini o'r
the underdogs. f think

Welsh Family R i c h i e 
clash. tomorrow will be the Frahn Club 
Plavmates toughest game we've had. realizes her Who {:an Play squad needs
They'll be out to get us,

is 111adr1 up to play at a
play mind games with us,

entir(1ly of high level to seniors while but we'll be ready. pull off the No '.'Jamr But upset.
Whoever wins I'll be root­

Got Game fea­"The team
ing for Welsh in the next

tures three we're sup­freshmen. one round." posed to sophomore and play looks one junior. pretty com­
Vanessa Lichon

Playmates p et i ti ve," captain No Name But Got Game Lenzini said. 
Stephanie ­Eden snes the tPams familiaritv with each other being a f'actclr.. 
"Tlrny'rp the other half of the interhall team. I think it'll be a very close game, we know each other verv well," Eden said. "We play v·ery good team basketball We're playing this game for April Olsen, one of our teammates who tore her ACL. That's our motivation to go all the way." 
Meanwhile Vanessa Lichon of No !'Jame But Got Game knows her teammates have their work cut out for them against their elder former Wammatcs. 
"I think we're delinitely the underdogs," Lichon said. "I think tomorrow. will be the toughest game we've had. They'll be out to get us. play mind games with us, but we'll bP rnady. Whoever wins I'll be rooting f'or Welsh in the next round." 
l.ichon foels her team has a signilicanl advantage. 
"I think we 
just need to play really well, play good team defense, and make all our shots." 
In the four against five match up, Silk Puppets takes on Farlcy@Collegeclub.com. Silk Puppets boasts good ath­leticism with two soccer play­ers in the lineup. 
"We should play like we played tonight," Jennil'er Pavela of Silk Puppets said. "We're a scrappy team and we just need to come out and play our game." 
While Playmates Who Can Play and JMKE bring consid­erable experience into their games, the team with the biggest edge in that depart­ment'would haye to be the seventh-seeded We're 52 Years Older Than You, a team of faculty members that is yet to bow out against the younger competition. The going gets tougher however has they face the second-seed­ed Muffet's Second String. 

9 Like WHOA! 

ST2 
8 Please call us 

9:15 Bosephus 
12 Rampage. 

ST? 
8:30 5 Versatilit 
Look for more coverage of Bookstore Basketball in Friday's paper. 
1 JAAKE 
8 Richie Frahn Club 
4 Silk Pu ets 
5 farley@collegeclub.com 
Women's Draw,· 

Playmates who can play 3 
_je're 52 years older than you 7 
.I 


Muffet's 2nd string 2 



~HI£ W~~~~:~d~~~~1~!a?i~~in~esults
2 0 0 0 JAAKE def. Apparently we hate them Richie Frahn Club def. GI Jane 
farley@collegeclub.com def. Aloe Vera 
Muffet's 2nd string def. Hardcore strokers 
We're 52 years older than you def. Kriminals 
Playmates who can play def. C.J.'s finest 
No name but got game def. Team 45 
Results from the Roundof32 
F-Bombs def Manual Steering (21-9) 
Please call us Bosephus def Nylon Strokers (21-19) 
Sexual Frustration V def. Carpe Diem (21-16) 
NDToday.com def. Free Ballers (21-9) 
KeyPlay.com def. One-tenth Asian (21-2) 
Rampage def. Donkey Balls (22-20) 
Coco Butter def. Scottie Who? (21-10) 
Dexy's Midnight Runners def. Guided by Voices (22-20) 
Franchise def. Furious D (21-8) 
Mourning Wood def. Corby's (21-12) 
Versatility def. Team 126 (21-6) 
Like WHOA!! def. Fast Eddie (21-19) 
The torch def. Malicious Prosecution (21-19) 
Majesties def. Natty White (21-18) 
Double Down def. Five Degree Guarantee (21-15) 
Nunc Dimmitis def. The Individuals (21-14) 
The round of 16 


~DCTA.l
5n•
2000 
JOSE CUELLAR/ The Observer 
'i 

NDToda .com 2 
ST2 
7:45

ST3 .. Nunc Dimmitis 15 ---4:30 ·Mournin Wood 1O ST7
ST 

F-Bombs 7 7:45
2;0 

-.. Fueled b Hate 11 ;], ST3 Ma·estics 6 8:30 
-::'L
ST2 

4 Coco -Butter· s:15 ,, Franchise 3 ST? ST3 
'i '· ··.ii-!.;,'' ' 
· 1; t t·1f I.:'~ L. ~ .J. r

9:15 13 Doubl 
·lj.Torch 14 9:15 
'
I 
I 
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 27, 2000 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Chicago tops Houston with help from Guiterrez, Sosa 
the Milwaukee Brewers at five straight times this season Rockies in Montreal. cleared the fence before 
A.sociated Press 

home. and 10 consecutive dating to Guerrero singled in his first breaking into his home-run Jim Edmonds and Fernando last year. Stottlemyre (4-1). in two at-bats, then was hit in trot. Tatis also connected as the his 13th major league season, I.he righi hand by a pitch from He came out of the dugout
HOUSTON 

Cardinals reached 50 homers homerf!ri in his 2 l nth at-bat.. Kevin Jarvis 0-1) in the sixth. for a curtain call to acknowl­
Hickv Gutierrez drove in a 

in April, breaking the mark of Ho threw five-plus innings, Guerrero shouted at .Iar\'is, edge the cheers from the
caree~-high five runs and 

49 set by the 1997 Cleveland gave up four runs, walked four and was escorted down tho crowd of 10.735.
Sammy Sosa hit a tiehreaking 

Indians.· and struck out one for ltH~ first base line by plate umpire The 24-year-old Guerrero
homer in the sevenlh inning, 

They have four games left Diamondbacks. who are 14-7 Rick Reed. has 100 home runs in I ,657
leading the Chicago Cubs over 

this month to chase the record -their best record in April in Both managers came out of career at-bats.
the Houston Astros 13-8 

for homers in anv month, 58 their short history. thP dugout, with MontrPal's Guerrero's brother, Wilton,
Wednesday night. 

bv the 1987 Balti1~ore Orioles. Rob Ducr.y and Scott Holen Felipe Alou poinling had a two-run, pinch-hit dou­
Sosa's sevt'nth horne run put 

·Ankiel (:{-1 l hit a threP--run P-ach hit two-run homers for Colorado's Buddv !foll. ble that put the Expos ahead
the Cubs abead 4-3. They went 

shot for his second horner in the Phillies, who lost tlrnir fifth In tho eighth, Gu<'rrero hit a 3-1 in the seventh.
on to stop a four-game losing 

the fourth. Edmonds had a stra.ighl.. drive off Julian Tavarez for a Montreal scorPd six times in
streak and send Houston to its 

leadot'f homer in the fifth, and Tlw loss was the Pighth in 420-fuot homer run. Guerrero the eighih. capped by Hondel!
seventh loss in 11 games. 

Tatis broke the record with a nine games for Philadelphia, stood and watched as Lhe ball White's two-run double.
After Sosa homered off Mike 
two-run shot later in the which has scored only 11 runs
Maddux (1-1 ), Jo<' Girardi had 
inning. during its current five-gamn
an RBI single and Gutierrez 
All three homers came off skid.
had a three-run double off .lay 
Steve Woodard I0-31. who Conzalez and Durazo each
Powell for an 8-3 lead in the 
hasn't won in 14 starts since had two hits and three HBls
seventh. 
July 16, 1999. for Arizona, which has hit
Damon Rul'nrd hit an RBI 
The Cardinals have homered seven home runs in its last two
double in the Cubs eighth and 
in 17 straight games, tying the against Philadelphia.
pinch-hitter Shane Andrews· 
team record set in 1998, with Andy Ashby (1-2) strugg!.~d
three-run homer capped a 
4 0 homers in that span. in the first and lasted just 3 1­
four-run ninth. 
They've connected in all but 3 innings, giving up five hits
Hoger Cedeno homered in 
one of their 21 games. and five earned runs. Hr.
tho Houston third and Ken 
Ankiel, 20, allO\.vcd thnw walked four, hit a hatter,
Caminiti hit a two-run shot in 
hits and has thrown 14 scorn-threw two wild pitches and
the seventh. Mitch Meluskey 
1ess innings his last three struck out two.
homered for the Astros in the 
starts to lower his EITA to Ashby retired his first two
ninth. 
2.16. batl.ers, but needed 36 pitc!rns
There have been 39 home 
He struck out four and to get out or the first inning as
runs in 11 games this season 
walked three, exhibiting much Arizona sent up eight batters
at new Enron Field. 
better control than his last and scored three runs. Ashby
Matt Karchner {1-1) got two 
outing when he walked -seven walked Gonzalez and surrr.n­
outs for the victory. 
in five innings in a victory over dered a two-run homer to
Houston starter Octavio 
the Padres. lle's batting .500 Durazo.
Dotel pitched six innings, giv­
with a double, triple and five Steve Finley and Travis Loo
ing up three runs and seven 
RBIs. walked before Kelly Stinnett
hits. 
singled in a run.
Cubs · starter Andrew 
Ducey's homer barely
Lorraine allowed three runs Diamondbacks 10, Phillies 4 
cleared the left-field fence in
and six hits in 5 1-3 innings. Todd Stottlemyre hit his first 
the second to get tbe Phillies
career homo run and earned 
within a run, 3-2.
the win as the Arizona 
Cardinals 7, Brewers 0 
Diamondbacks beat the 
Hookie pitcher Rick Ankiel 
Philadelphia Phillies -in Expos 9, Rockies 2 
le-d a three-homer surge that 
Philadelphia. Vladimir Guerrero hit his 
helped St. Louis set a major 
Luis Gonzalez and Erubiel 100th career home run and 
league record for April, and 
Durazo each hit two-run raised his NL-leading average
also threw seven scoreless 
homers for the Diamondbacks, to .452, leading the Montreal 
innings as the Car-dinals beat 
who have beaten the Phillies Expos over th<' f:olnrado 

BRUNO'S 
STUDENT DINNER BUFFET 

Pizza, Pasta, Salad, and other Italian Dishes 
2610 Prairie Ave. Location 288-3320 
*Accepting reservations for* GRADUATION 
.0 0 
3
~ 
Cl).!1i 
~ 
.c :::,
0
·;::: n" 
Cl)
,::, 
N 
3 LOW :a 
"Tl 
s::. 0 
·2 :::, 
(")
:::, 
::i: (I) 
<
.!: 
m· 
~ :::, 
l:Il 
DJ. 
0 STUDENT (D 
E CD 
ct! C "E a. DJ ! -g 
!2.
E
< ""ti 
0 ii3 
ui (0 
0 C:
AIRFARES :::, 
(I) 
E i
0 I
..c: 
i 3:: 
C Europe •Africa •Asia •South America 
(I) ~ 
g> i
More Than 100 Departure Cities! 
C 
z;r
~ 
.c Eurailpasses •Bus Passes •Study Abroad ,-g
0 
u 
::::, 
3::
~ II) 
a.
z 
::I. .!!l C. 
11,1
Cl.. l6 ec=•student 0 CD 
c· <II 
is 
universe 0 
:::, i0 
•axn g 
~ 
IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT­
"CJ ~ 
§ < -' c... 
0 g. 
f 
13> 
;;, 
CD 
U) ~ 
"' E a C: 
"' www.StudentUniverse.com :::, 
Ul ~ 
I!:! 
::i::
< 0 
ti) :::, 
0 <O 
:::J 800-272-9676 0 
C: 
(I) 
al ::, (Q 6 :::, 
-


Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 TONIGHT and EVERY THURSDAY tor 
O{J@@mlJ[1@lli)@).~ COLLeGe ntGHT 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
$ 1 COWl;ER 

(with college I.D., must be 21) .,. j and lots of other stuff for a buck, too. 
\\'i\\@~-~r-;,~y,~ZS 
4-.oiio~-~'l ~ e P.S. l)Ut-JP YOUR BCJYFRJENI) F fZ..IC>A '1. I-,(A '1 '? 
OUrTOF SE:ASO!--' 
,-::;>-\-T"A-1 C.A-4-VI "1 
For ticket info call the Heartland Concert & Event Line: 219.251.2568 222 S. Michigan • South Bend • 219.2345200 www.aceplaces.com/heartland 


Thursday, April 27, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ivey joins Canada-bound 2000 Big East All-Star Team 

Special w The Observer 
Notrn Dame senior Nicle Ivcv has been selected to the 13~mcmber 2000 Big East Womi>n's Basketball All-Siar Team which will compete on a six-J.{anrn 1,;omp1!titive tour of Vanrot1v11r and Virtoria, British Columbia on May 26­.lunc 4. 
Ivey, a sBctrnd-team all-Big East snlecti011. head Ii ncs the 13-memlrnr squad which is compris11d of one representa­tive f'rom each league sc:hool, and fpatures one sPnior. one junior. five sophomores and six frnshnrnn. 
ThP !i-foo t-.6 guard, who avcragcu 11.2 points as the team ·s third-leading-scorer and led the Irish in assists (1941. will return for a fifth season with Notre Dame in 2000-20001 after playing in just fivt1 game because of an injury during the 1996-97 
carnpa.ign. 
Ivey was tho Hig East leader in steals (2.97) and was sec­ond in assists (6.06) as she led lhe Irish tu a second-place fin­ish in the league's rngular­SPason standings with a 15-1 record. 
This murks the ·11th consec­utive year that the Big East Confcrenc1, is sending a wonrnn's basketball all-star squad abroad. West Virginia University head coach Alexis Basil will direct the team. 
Notre Dame, which made a fifth consecutive appearance in the NCAA tournament, fin­islied the 1990-2000 season with a 27-5 record. The _844 winning percentage is the best in school history and the 27 wins arc the second most by an Irish squad. 
The all-stars will play the top club teams in Western Canada during their tour, including Simon Fraser All­Stars. 
Recycle The Observer. 

Author s 
Meet authors 
Anthony Walton and John Matthias 
Thursday 
April 27th 
7·30 pm 
in the Hammes Notre Dame Boolcstore 
Join us for a celebration of National Month featuring Anthony Walton_ have appeared widely in magazines, including 
The Kenyon Review & 
Reading with Professor Walton will be John Matthias, Professor of English at the University of Notre Dame and author of 8 volumes of poetry, including his newly released 
Pages. 
¦ ¦
1gn1ng 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 

NBA 
Rivers 

wins coach of the year 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. 
Doc Rivers didn't have to win 

the NBA coach of the year 
award to validate his first sea­
son with the surprising Orlando 
Magic. Just being mentioned as 
a candidate was enough for him. 
"It wouldn't have been disap­

pointing if I hadn't won. I don't 
think you go into a year compet­
ing to be coach of the year," he 
said Wednesday after receiving 
the Red Auerbach Trophy. 
"In my mind, I had already 

won something because every 
once in a while people men­
tioned me alongside Phil 
Jackson.... Having said that, I 
know I have a long way to go in 
coaching. I do want to be THE 
winner somedav. So I know I 
have a lot of wori to do, a lot of 
learning to do, and this award 
will not stop me from doing 
that." 
Jackson led the Los Angeles 

Lakers to the league's best 
record, while the Magic were 
41-41 and finished one game 
behind Milwauker for the final 
playoff position in the Eastern 
Conference. 
Rivers, who rcceivnd 60 votes 

to Jackson's 53 from a 121­
member panel, said last week 
that he thought the Lakers 
coach deserved the honor 
because teams are judged by 
the number of games they win, 
and coaches should be, too_ 
CORRECTION 
Mo MacDonald. a freshman from Iloly Cross llall. was incorrectly identilit>d as a resi­don t of Pangborn Ila!! in BookstorP Basketball coverage in lhr April 26H1 Petition. 
The Obserz•er regrets the error. 
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 27, 2000 
Chorney 
continued from page 32 
away from any Major League Baseball team. making trips to games rare and deeply appreciat­ed. Every summer. while vaca­tioning iit my grandpar<'nts' house, Gogo would take us to a game. Eighty-plus years old and there she was sitting in the bleachers making friends with the fans around us. talking their ears off. proving wrong anyone that didn't think an old lady could be knowledgeable about baseball. 
Upon hearing Lhc news of her passing, l couldn't help but think­ing about how trivial all of' this is, these sports that consume many of our lives. Some deeper thinking made me realize how important they actually were, because through sports. Gogo taught me a very valuable lesson. She rooted for the teams, but not all of the players. She only rooted for play­ers whom she respected. 
They didn't earn respect with their actions on the field. No bat­ting titles, defensive plays, or homeruns could earn it. Thev earned respect with both their actions off the field and the way they carried themselves on the· field. Her favorite players were Carney Lansford. Dave Stewart, Dave Dravecky Matt Williams and Mark McGwire (not the andro­pumping, 70-homerun McGwire, the one that batted .201). 
If you asked her why she liked Stewart or Williams, she'd tell that they were always gentlemen. McGwire? She'd say that she liked how he never watched his homeruns and how dose he was to his son. 
She liked Dravecky for overcom­ing cancer with an upbeat atti­tude. Lansford? She'd tell you about how he bought his mother all new appliances when he made it to the big-time. 
She loved Tony Larussa, not because he was one of the best managers around. but because he had alreadv earned his law degree. Slie loVf'd Dusty Baker too, because he was proving peo­ple wrong, showing the white establishment that Afriran­Amcricans can coach baseball. She didn't like Barrv Honds, Jost'\ Canseco, or Rickey ~lenderson. They were cocky, acting like they didn't have any responsibility to be role models. Their run produc­tion didn't really matter if they didn't run out ground balls. 
Gogo taught me that there's not only a. right way to fail. a losson I've lParned before, but a right way tu succeed too, a lesson too many people don't ever learn. She taught me that doing things the right way meant more than failing or succeeding, a lesson we all must learn. 
She was excited about seeing Pac Bell Park, excited about both the A's and Giants prospects in thl'l upcoming years. Hut for some reason, seeing these dreams real­ized wasn't in God's plans. She collapsl'd April 13 and died soon after. So last week, I was doing God a favor. I returned home for hHr funeral. Afterward our family went Lo the Pacilic Ocean and poured hP.r cremated ashes into it. 
Some would think she did it because of a love of water or as a symbol of freedom. But if I know Gogo. it was for a different rea­son. She's giving God an earful all right. She's trying to convince him to shift the currents so that she ends up in the Bay. outside the right field fence, a seat to watch her Giants. If only heaven's radio could tune to the A's game. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
WOMEN'S ROWING 

Irish place seven boats in finals 
Special to Th~ Ob•erver 
MADISON.Wis 
Thn Notre Dame rowing team, compflting in only its second season as a varsitv team, placed seven different boats in the l'inals of' their 
ri>spective  events at  the  
Midwest  Ho wing  
Championships.  

"Today was a grflat day for us," sai<l head r.oach Martin Stone. "Putting all our boats into finals is a big step for this pro~rnm." 
LPading the way for the lrish was the Novice 4. Notre Dame's Novice 4 "A" captured first in their heat with a time of 7:31.38, and then wat<'hed as the Novice "B" captured in their heat with a time of 7:36,28, two seconds behind Wisconsin. In the finals, tlrn "A" and "B" ttiams captured second anti fourth, respective­ly. 

The women's Novice 8 tnam also had success in their opcn­ing heat capturing first in 6:34.93. 
The finals saw the team improve its time bv a second and a half and capture third 
place 4.37 seconds behind Wisconsin. In 2nd Novice Eight action, took third in their heat and 
they finished in fifth in finals bettering their heat team by more than 11 seconds. 
On the varsity side. both women's varsity 8 teams did quite well in their linal-onlv events. " 
, The Ser.and Varsity 8 r.ap: turcd third with a time of 6:25.9:~. 9.10 semnds behind Wisconsin. While the Varsity 8 team, finished in fourth with a time of 6:22.69. 
The women's Varsity 4 boat ca.me in ser,ond in their luiat with a time of 7:29.38. They nearly matched their heat time in the finals, posting a time of 
7:29.79 only to fall to sixth place. 
Midwest Rowing Championship Results 

Novice 4 Novice 8 
Heat2
1. Notre Dame 1. Notre Dame 

2. 
Kansas 



2. Northwestern
3. 
Southern Methodist 


3. Wheaton
4. 
Texas Club 


4. Cincinatti
5. 
Cincinatti 


5. Southern Methodist 
2nd Novice 8  Heat 3  · Varsity 4  
1. Wisconsin  1. Wisconsin "B''  1. Wisconsin "B"  
2. Texas  2. Notre Dame "B"  2. Notre Dame  
3. Notre Dame  3. Creighton  3. Wisconsin LT  
4. Northwestern  4. Wheaton "B"  4. Texas  
5. Kansas  

2nd Annual Chili Cook-off and Bluegrass Music Festival Featuring: Saturday, April 29th The Galoots 8-1 lp.m. Straight from Kentucky, The Home of Bluegrass Music,on North Quad Free T-ShirtsLive Music! for first 150!Free Chili! See ya thereFree Drinks! partner!FreeWatermelon Limited quantities offood and drink available Sponsored by: The Student Activitie Office, Notre Dame Food Services, and Coca-Cola  


Thursday, April 27, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 31 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
I-IEY J'ASON! WATCH ME 
FALL OFF THE 
BALANCE 6EAM! 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
SUit€, \"'-JIS (:,OT A Lo, OF WOP..~. \ 6Ue:55 I CAN ALWAYS wAl<e UP-~ARL."( TOMO~R.ovJ., ~o I CAN GO OUT fOtz-A 
LITiL.~ wl-\1 LE .•. 
... 
Famous last words. 
beam. 1 @nd edu 
21 Descend again 24 Comparison part 
way 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
54 "Bye Bye Birdie" song 58 Advice for one facing adversity 59 Gen. parts 60 Record store purchases 61 Alternative to smoking 
DOWN 1 Stewed 2 Sounds of 
amazement 3 Jaw 4 One-two part 5_Campbe11 
on ''The Andy Griffith Show'' 6 Less arduous 7 Old pulp magazine hero 8 Jazz great Malone 9 Let loose 10 Kind of ticket 11 Brand ot cooking spray 12 Eccentric people 13 Proceeding well 14 Teachers' org. 17 Home to Bryce Canyon 
Puzzle by Peter Gordon 
31 Floorboard concealer 32 Animal worship 34 Middle of a square, maybe 35 Questionable 36 Animate 
38 Pa. nuclear accident site, 1979 
40 Short-winded 48 Roulette bet 49 Things keepers 
keep 50 Battery size 

51 "The very 55 Chem. formula minute bids for hydrogen thee thine isocyanide ear'': Shak. 
56 Put two and two52 All-Century togetherTeam pitcher 
53 Bushy do 57 Big TV inits. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON nns DAY: Jack Klugman, Coretta Scott King, Sheena Easton, Anouk Aimee, Sanely Dennis, Casey Kasem 
Happy Birthday: The more hard work you put in, the further ahead you'll be. It's simple this year if you buckle down and refuse to get side­tracked by those interested in having a good time. This year you will have to be frugal and patient if you want to get ahead and avoid painful and costly problems. Commit to your plans wholeheartedly and prosper. Your numbers: 9, 13, 25, 29, 31, 37 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Last­ing relationships will unfold if you are willing to take the time to get to know new acquaintances today. Don't take everything you're told literally. You may be getting false information. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This will be a difficult day if you disagree with your boss or co-workers. You are not likely to win a debate and had better stick to doing what you knowbest.00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be in the mood to learn. Be sure you pick up reading material that will give you the knowledge neces­sary to complete jobs you've been contemplating. 00000 
CANCER ijune 21-July 22): You can expect to have a problem with parents or grandparents. Try to take care of their needs, but don't do neglect your own family or personal responsibilities. Try to be positive whendealing with others. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may find it difficult to talk to your partner if you have been experiencing a 

Birthday Baby: You have your own set of rules and definitely your own dreams and aspirations. You will follow whatever direction entices you, regardless of the advice given by others. You are your own person and will always learn from your mistakes. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at utroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.} C2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 

change of heart. This will be a make­or-break period in your relationship. Stay calm. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will have the discipline and the desire to work hard in your chosen field. You can get recognition for your efforts if you present your work to superiors. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Preg­nancy is quite possible. Take precau­tions if you wish to avoid the conse­quences. You may want to look into creative endeavors. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't allow others to put additional responsibilities on your plate. You should be making residential moves or alterations. Start renovation projects. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-0ec. 21): You can ask for favors and rely on others to help you today. Visit friends or get involved in projects that will allow you to meet new friends or lovers. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may find yourself in a difficult situation at work today. Try not to take sides, and you will be offered a better position. Opportunities are obvious. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't hold back. Say what you think. Your ability to get your point across will be appreciated even if others are not in total agreement with you. 
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take care of any minor health problems. You can do well if you deal with institutions today. Investments may not be as lucrative as they appear. Hold .onto your cash. 000 
~-~a~@ 
oo~rn:&~'lf ©~oo©rn:m\ iw~mm:oom:~~ mlirn1rn: 
ND 
vs. St. Joh 


Sunday@12:00 pm-Numerous special events promoting breast cancer awareness will take place, in addition to prize givaways and contests! 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Paleological • place 4 Montana, for one 7 Symbol of espionage 9 Terminal 11 Bureaucracy VJ.P. 13 "Dream Baby" singer, 1962 15 Pesticide targets 16 Get back together 18 Spot 19 Framing piece 20 Racket 22 Viscosity symbol 23 Shipbuilder of note 25 Lah-di­26 Zaragoza's river 
28 "Smile!" 31 Cousin of a rhododendron 33 Substitute for 
boxers 36 Experienced 37 Part of E.T. 39 Result of a 
sacrifice 41 Help wanted ad abbr. 42 Cameron Diaz's 
film debut 43 Ply 44 Homeboy 45 _City 
(popular computer game} 46 "Car Talk" broadcaster 47 Muse of astronomy 51 Spouts 
-· ·­

Going abroad 
Senior Niele fliey was selected lo join the 2000 Big East Women's Basketball All-Star Team. The team will play six games in Canada during May 
PORTS 
and June. 
page 27 
O
THE 

page 32 BSERVER 

Baseball bonds 
families 

I think that God's gf'tting an Parful right now. 
IIP. made a mistake and I'm sure she's letting him hear about it. 
I apolo­gize for being unable to write a col­umn last week. I was home, in California trying to atone for this mis­take. And ifvou think th~t's an easv task. think again. 
What was God's mistake. you ask? Well. the big guy upstairs took my Grandmother into heav­en before she got to watch a game with her grandkids in Pac Bell Park. the Giants new exquisite stadium that uses the San Francisco Bay as its right field homerun area. 
Anyone who knew her knows not to keep her away from her baseball. Eighty-six-years old and next to her family. baseball was her love. My grandmother wasn't just any baseball fan though. She was one of the best fans, one of the fans that truly love and respect the game, that sticks by her teams throughout good times and bad, that was as impressed with stardom as role players. 
There was no such thing as too much baseball for Gogo {the nickname we grandkids gave her when she was young because of her tendency to con­stantly be on the go). It wasn't only normal to see her sitting in her chair, watching her beloved Giants while listening to her beloved A's, it was abnormal for her not to be. 
There wasn't a happier person in the entire world during the 1989 Battle of the Bav World Series. Even the earthquake that interrupted the series and damaged her home couldn't squelch her excitement. She was a good fan, though. not because of the way she followed her teams during their good times, but because of the way she fol­lowed them through their rebuilding years. Nothing changed. She still rooted just as hard when they lost. 
More importantly for us kids. we still got to attend a game every summer regardless of their records. I live six hours 

see CHURNEY/page 30 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Belles defeat Crusaders in season ender 
By KATIE McVOY 
Assis,anr Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's tennis ttmm ended the regular season on a high note. defeating Division I opponent Valparaiso University by a count of 9-0. The Belles Saint Mary's 9 wrapped up 
Valparaiso 0
this match in _just about three hours. handily defeating Valpo. 
"it was really an in-and-out day," said freshman Lindsay Mollan. 
The Helles started their regu­lar line-up. with the exception of the regular doubles team. Coach Dee Stevenson played Mollan and Trisha Jones instead o!' Victoria Cox and Elisa Hyan. The move proved to be a good one. helping the Belles surge to a big win. 
After being behind early in the match, Mollan and Jones came back to win 8-6 in an eight­game pro-set. 
All three doubles teams played eight-game pro-sets. The first doubles team of Katie Vales and Annie Knish controlled their set and took a command­ing lead before winning the set 8-2. The second doubles team of Becky Kremer and Natalie Cook also had a strong match, win­ning 8-5. The singles players were just as successful. Vales, Cook, Kremer, Knish, Moll an and Jones. who play first through sixth singles respective­ly, all won their matches in straight sets. 
"Everyone played great," Mollan said. "We were all more focused coming out. It was our last match before conference, so we all wanted to finish the sea­son on a good note." 
The Belles did just that. ring­ing out the season with a 17-5 
SOFTBALL 


record. along with a 5-2 in MIM play. 
Following Monday's loss to Wheaton and the fact that they were not invited to the Midwest Invitational. the Belles were glad to have some practice and get back on track. 
"It kind of put a damper on things for awhile," Mollan said. 

"But we bounced back. We had a good practice Tuesday, and that helped," 
Saint Mary's has fared well against upper level Division I competition. 
They faced Bucknell University during their trip over spring break and were tri­umphant in that match as well. 
The Belles now have a week and a half off to get ready for the conference tournament at Albion that starts on May 5. The Belles are looking to focus on particulars this week at prac­tice. 
"This week we'll be fine tun­ing everything and getting ready for conference," Mollan said. 

Notre Drune takes doubleheader against UIC 
ers." junior outfielder LizzyBy RACHAEL PROTZMAN Lemire said. "They were not Sporrs W ricer strong at all whereas our pitch­
ers did real-Notre Dame's Jennifer ly well as 
Game 1
Sharron led the Irish to victory always." 
Notre Dame 4
in game one in a doubleheader Junior against No. 25 Illinois-Chicago Melanie Illinois-Chicago 0 with her 10th shutout this year. Alkire 
The Irish, with a 4-0 win in kicked start­game one and 7-1 triumph in ed the Irish Game 2 game two, improved to 39-12 on in the first 
Notre Dame 7 
the year and avenged a double­with her header loss to UIC last year. ninth home-Illinois-Chicago 1 Sharron struck out 1l while run of the holding UIC to just three hits. season. Alkirr,, who totaled 10 
"I think we did a really goud homeruns last year, lifted Notre job of jumping on their pitch-Dame to 27 total homeruns edg­ing them closer to breaking the record of 29 set last season 

Junior Danielle Klayman dou­bled in the second before scor­ing on a single to left field by Sharron to end the Irish scoring. 
Pitcher Michelle Moshe! earned her 11th win in game lwo with eight strikeouts. 
Scoreless until the third. Andrea Loman singled lo left lield to drive in Klayman before Lemire drove in two more runs to give Notre Dame the 3-0 lead. 
Alkire doubled down the left field lino in the fifth before scor­ing on a single by Lemire. 
Alexis Madrid doubled in the sixth before scoring with Kriech and Alkire on a series of UIC errors. 
"They're a big hitting team." Lemire said. "We did an out­standing job of stopping them defensively. We couldn't have done better." 
Notre Dame will travel to St. John's for a doubleheader on Saturday and Seton Hall in another Big East doubleheader on Sunday. 
"I thought we played really well today," Lemire said. "They were big games that give us conl~?ence going into the week­end. 

Baseball Softball Blue and Gold Game 
., ., .~

vs. Cleveland Stare at Sr. Juhn's Saturday, 1 :30 p.m. 
SPORTS ~-:" 

Today, 5:05 p.m. Saturday, 12 p.m. Men's Golf 
.,

ATA at Big East Championships Track and field . \Vomen's Lacrosse Rowing Saturday, all day
., .,
At Drake Relays at Rutgers at Navy
t
GLANCE Friday-Saturday, TBA Saturday, 1 p.m. Saturday, all day 






