
Lewis checks out 
African-American justice 
Baltimore Ravens' linebacker posted $1 
Author Randall Robinson speaks out about justice 

Wednesday

million hail to spend time at home. 
due to blacks after decades ofenslavement. 

FEBRUARY 16, 

News . page 3

Sports . page 16 
2000 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 84 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Professor: Gender differences not as big as studies claim 

Ivers: Church is racist, sexist 
By ALLISON MAIMONA News Writer 
Notre Dame is a potentially volatile environnrnnl according to comments made Tuesday by Fathl:'r Michael Ivers. a pastor of St. Agatha Church in Chicago. 
"The Catholic Church is a racist institution. The Catholic Church is a sexist institution and people can't be afraid to tell tlw truth," said Ivers. 
Speaking on the "Call to be Church After Cht1rch in the African­Ame rican Community," Ivers addressed the issue of diversity in the Catholic church. 
"!The! problem [is] not with Catholic social teaching, but Catholic social practice," lvflt's said. lie noted that at the confercnt.·B itsnlf. them had been no Al'rlcan­Ameriean presenters. The detinition of a Catholic is universal, and the underrepresernation of minorities 
see CHURCH/page 6 
By LINDSAY FRANK 
News Writer 
Scientific research is too often used to classify people in terms of gender, race and sexuality for politkal reasons, said Anne Fausto-Strffling, a professor of biology and women's studies at Brown University. 
"Biological accounts of body differences arc always political," she said. 
According to Fausto-Sterling, dividing people 
into groups for things like census reports in 
order to map group differences is pointless. 
"For almost any trait.there are more varia­tions within a group than between groups," she said. 
Fausto-Sterling cited examples of scientific studies in the1900s whose data was manipulat­ed to provide reasons for differences between the sexes and races. One such study involved research on the corpus callosum, a portion of the brain that is difficult to study unless it is completely removed from the rest of the brain. 
Despite the fact that its removal alters its composition, these scientists subdivided it and took measurements of the posterior part and used these measurements as answers to racial and gender differences. 
"Once freed from the body and domesticated in the lab the corpus callosum serves various masters. Then they thought it held the key to racial differences and now it is applied to gen­der," she said. 
Other research at this time claimed that so­called internal secretions took on both female and masculine characteristics and was used to suggest that women's desire to vote came from 
see GENDER/page 4 

BOG reacts to election, debates structure 
"There needs to be an outlet By SARAH RYKOWSKI for the student body to voice News Writer their complaints," Renner said. 
BOG will vote on the addition As a direct result of the con­of this new committee at next troversy still circling around week's meeting, just in time for the recent Saint Mary's student the class board elections. The body presidential elections, board will also rule on the pro­
amendments and the proposal posed constitutional amend­of a new oversight committee ments at this meeting. for the Saint Mary's constitu­"These are [only] clarifica­
tion were the orders at tions [of existing policies]." Tuesday's Board of Governance executive secretary Bridget meeting. Heffernan said. 
The new committee. as pro­Among the amendments is posed by student body Yice the addition of a policy detail­president Angie Little, would ing the proper procedures in include representatives from the event that an election each of the class boards, the results in a tie. 
Elections Committee, the The amendment to be dis­Residence Hall Association and cussed appendix now reads: "In tlrn Student Academic Council the situation that a tie occurs and would be chaired by the in the run-off eler,tion [an executive vice president. equal number of raw votes for "This committee would not be both tickets], the raw votes making the amendments," from the primary election and Little said. "They would be pre­the run-off election will be senting [the amendments! to added. The votes for 'abstain,· BOG to vote on them." all original tickets and discard­
Student body president-elect ed ballots will be counted. The Crissip, Renner, also this vear's winner is determined by the elections commissioner, {oiced ticket with the highest number a concern that echoed those of of raw votes.·· the student body in the week since the election. 
see BOG/page 4 




page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, February 16, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
. Comedy: Tim Cavanagh, . Theatre: "Damn . Music: \fartina McBride, . Dance: Saint Mary's




Blessed 
Funny Bone Comedy Club, Yankees," Southwestern Star Plaza Theatre, Dance Workshop. 
South Bend, 8 p.m. and Micghigan College, Merrillvile. 8 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium, 

are W'e 

10:15 p.m. Dowagiac. 7:30 p.m. . Crafts and Hobbies: Arts 8 p.m. It was not my best weekend. 
. Art: "Facing DPath: . Music: Y'all in concert. and Crafts show. Orr-hards . Circus: Flying

I had to go out East to attend my much beloved grandmother's funeral. She died sud­Potraits from Cambodia's Front Porch Music, Mall, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Karamazo Brothers, denly. only two and a lrn.lf months after my 
Killing Fields," Snite Valparaiso. 8 p.m. . Film: "The Insider," Mendel Center, Lake 

grandfathPr. When I returned to school Museum. Snite Museum. 9:45 p.m. Michigan College. 7 p.m. 
on Tuesday, I picked up ThP ObservPr and saw that 
Compiled /rum U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Sit-in ends as Penn withdraws from FLA 
PHILADELPHIA 
Rodin with a recommendation by 
University of Pennsylvania February 29. Prf'sident Judith Rodin rnached a The committee. which includes tentative agreemenL with the anti­lhree PSAS students among its mem­sweatshop group that had occupied bership, will meet today, chairman her oilke for the past eight days by Howard Kunreuther said. The stu­agreeing to withdraw Penn from the dents launched the highly publicized Fair Labor Association. of the agreement. The group will sit-in last Monday. demanding that 
According to a joint statement remain in College Hall, continuing Penn pull out of the FU\ and join the released Monday night by Penn with thP two-day hunger fast, which alternate monitoring organization StudPnts Against Sweatshops -for­it began Monday at noon, until the the Worker Rights Consortium. PSAS merly known as United Students agreement is finished. has repeatedly argued that the WRC Against Sweatshops -and Hodin. "Having a tentative agreement is is more effective in securing work­the president will submit a letter of definitely good news," College senior ers' rights because it is run by withdrawal to the FLA while exam­and PSAS leader Miriam Joffe-Block human rights organizations, rather ining the efficacy of joining another said last night. "[But] there's a lot of than the companies it is supposed to organization to monitor Penn-logo work we still need to get done." monitor. apparel. The agreement also states that the The number of students sleeping 
"The important thing is that we Ad Hoc Committee on Sweatshop in College Hall rose to about 30 by find a solution in the best interest of Labor -formed last January to cre­the end of last week. as PSAS held Penn," Rodin said Monday night. ate a code of conduct for Penn -rallies and vigils in support of its 
Rodin will meet with PSAS will now evaluate the various moni­cause and covered the campus in Tuesday to discuss the final details toring organizations and present protest signs and banners. 

Laura Petelle 
Assistant 
Manag;ng 
Editor 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather0v forecast for dJytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 16. 
Wednesday~ Thursday Friday Saturd;~Y 
@200-0 AccuWt.ather, Inc, 

P,es,uro: 
® © . (8 E:J Eill, 132] till:J . .;.J6­
Hl9h Low Showers Aalri T-Gtorm&i Flurrlaa Snow Joe Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy


Sunday 
Via AHoa,atedPf'f/1,s
j_.,.,."'-.,,·J··~•--... ,-··')\,., 
Atlanta 69 43 Las Vega, 68 49 Portland 51 35 Baltimore 57 31 Memphis 63 45 Seattle 44 32 Bosten 40 25 Milwaukee 30 13 St Louis 46 28 Chicago 32 15 New York 48 32 Tampa 80 60 Houston 84 62 Philadelphia 52 30 Wash OC 56 34 

Father Richard McCormick 
had died as well. 
And somewhere in lhe middle, while reading for a theology class, l ran across the words ''Blessed am they who mourn." 
l didn't fop! vPrv blessP-d. l felt angry at God. \'\'hen l left for my grandmother's funeral. I felt like somPone had ripped my heart out of my chest and jumped on it for half an hour or so. and I jusL wanted not to IlAVE a heart anymore so it would stop hurting. My grandmother was an amazing woman. I am her namesake. and she is my role model. She taught me how to be a woman, a Catholic. a feminist, a person. I feel an incredible empti­ness and desolation when I think about this sudden hole in mv life. 
I'm sure that Richard McCormick's family and friends feel the same way. I feel that my life is poorer without him in it. I first met Father McCormick when I was assigned to write a news analysis on the cloning of Dolly the sheep. I was still a fairly green reporter, but I knew it wasn't going to be a run-of-the­mill interview when I asked McCormick if cloning was a good thing. 
"God knows the world doesn't need six Dick McCormicks running around." he replied. Then he mused to himself more than me, "Although -maybe Newsweek could call them. then." 
I interviewed him a few more times back when I covered most of the religion and ethics news for The Observer. He was always one of my toughest interviews, poking logical holes in my questions, anticipating my responses, gen­erally running circles around me. I both dread­ed these interviews -because I knew my head would be spinning -and eagerly anticipated them, because there was no one more interest­ing on campus to talk to. McCormick was unfailingly generous with his time, willing to give me long interviews on the smallest sub­jects. despite being a very busy man and a very sought-after interviewee. 
Later on. I read some of his work in my theol­ogy classes. and he came to speak in some of those classes. I never had him for class. but [ came to respect his academic prowess. And he never lost sight of his calling as a priest. a call­ing that was apparent in every statement he made. 
It seems a terrible waste to have these two wonderful people die. Like Job, I want to demand answers from God. Somehow. I don't think the answers will be forthcoming. 
But the Gospel says. "Blessed are they who mourn. 
If the love we have for one an,other is a pale shadow of the love God has for us, mavbe we should feel blessed .that we loved these people enough to feel such powerful sorrow. 
The views e:rpressed in the Inside Column are thuse of the author and nut necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Kate Sm:r Mike Vanegas Sam Derheimer Graphics 
Erin Piroutek Jose Cn<:ller Sports Production Katie McVov Kerry Smith 
Viewpoint Lab Tech Dustin Ferrell Liz Lang 

Tl,e Ol,servcr (USPS 59'! 2 4QOO) i, published MomL1y cl11ou.;h Friday ex...:ep, during cx.rn1 and v;1L;Hion periods. The OUsc:rv-a i,) a member of rhe Assoc1;1ted Press. AH rcprodtitric)I) nghrs are reserved. 
Activists over take Michigan tower 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
A spokesman for Rev. Al Sharpton of the National Action Network met with members of the Students of Color Coalition (SCC) and interim Vice President for Student Affairs E. Royster Harper to express· Sharpton·s support for the SCC and its takeover of the Michigamua meeting space on the seventh floor of the University of Michigan Union tower. Tiahmo Rauf, Midwest regional director for the National Action Network. said Sharpton is scheduled to arrive on cam­pus Saturday evening and stay in Ann Arbor through Sundav. "That the former President of the United States is a member of Michigamua is an insult," Rauf said, referring to former President Gerald Ford, a University alumnus. SCC members. who have occupied the tower since Feb. 6, contend Michigamua is a racist and elitist student organization that uses Native American artifacts and traditions tn degrade the cul­ture. Rauf. who explained that his trip to campus Monday was a part of a "fact finding mission" to look into Michgamua·s history and practices, said Sharpton will lead a team or journalists from CNN, as well as ABC's 20/20 and l'\ightline to the Michigamua meeting. 


~-~-~q~~~ ~ u 
Showers Twstorms Rain Flurdes Snow fee Sunny Pr. Ooudy Cloudy 1/ia AsSiJcf.ateU Prnss Graph,csNet 
Egg doner ad causes controversy 
STANFORD. Calif. 
In the wake of a Stanford Daily ad that appeared numerous times over the past few weeks, a national controversy has arisen, attracting the attention of news media such as CNN and MSNBC. along with many others. The advertisement, which was spon­sored by a Christian-affiliated organization named Families 2000, offered $100,000 for a caucasian donor of "proven college level athletic ability." This sum of money marks the largest-known offer made for an egg-donation. exceeding the $50,000 egg donor ad posted at several upper-tier universities. including Stanford, in the last academic year. A typical egg donor receives around $4,000 compensation for the procedure. Using the phrase "Give the Gift of Love and Life," the full-page advertisement offers to pay the sum of money either direcily to the donor or to the charity of her choice. In response to this milestone event in the evolving age of reproductive technology. some members of the Stanford community have been voicing their concerns over the large sums couples are willingto pay to have "a superior child," said professor of bioethics William Hurlbut. 

Wednesday, February 16, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





Robinson: U.S. in debt to African-Aillericans for slavery 
try can have biracialism and
. Author's premise 
biculturalism until it is coura­
compares the geous enough to come to terms with itself. We cannot
injustices of 
bury the past."

slavery to the 
Hobinson said he believes 
Holocaust of WWII that the two major conse­quences slavery has imposed on African-Americans have been psychic and economic.
By COLLEEN McCARTHY In the psychic aspect. black
Associate l'!ews Editor 
people have had their history erased by whites, he said. 
After profiting from the 
"Blacks may be the only peo­
cnslavcnJP.nl of black µeoplr, 
ple who do not have a sight
for nearly 350 years. the li.S. 
lino to their history," he said. 
governmont owes reparations 
"We know nothing about 
to bl,u'.k peopln, said Jlandall Africa in its glorious antiquity.
Hobinson. author of "The 
But that was done on purpose,
Debt: What America Owes to to cul people off from their 
Blacks," in lecture at Saint 
own historv." 

Mary's Monday night. 
The C.s: has not acknowl­
"ThPrf': am economic gaps 
edged blacks' presence in that havn existed between 
/\mPrican histw::y, and this is 
blacks and whites since the evident in Washington, O.C.,
Emancipation Proclamation," 
said Hobinson. "My daughter
said Hobinson. who called and I were walking on the sla\'t!ry one of the great Mall in Washington and we 
crimes evor committ~HI counted onlv six black people
against humanity. lie cited 
among the· thousands who 
other nations, such as 
were there on a summer day,"
Germany, who have offered said Robinson. "There were 
apologim; to µeople victimized 
only six blacks there because 
by their government. Since the there is nothing there that has 
Luxembourg Agreement of 
anything to do with them. 
1952. Cermany has compen­
"You walk up lhe Mall and 
saled .lewisb people for Lheir 
see the Holocaust museum, treatment during World War 
which is there, and rightly so,
II. Robinson said. 
to commemorate what was 
"We have urged other coun­
done to the Jewish people
tries to do what tlrn U.S. has during World War II, and you
not done." lw said. "No coun­see the sight where a museum will be built honoring native mated at around $1.4 trillion. Americans," he said. "But no "It is no accident that one where will you find a monu­community is rich and anoth­ment. brick. or word that er is poor." said Hohinson. commemorates the American "However, what we must Holocaust that ran for 346 remember is that blacks are years." behind not because they did 
Robinson added that something wrong or inade­although it was slaves who quate but because of some­helped build the U.S. Capitol thing (slavery] that was done building, there is no acknowl­to them a very long time ago." edgement of their work. Robinson does not recom­
"The only black in the mend paying reparations in Capitol is a small bust of cash. Rather, he suggested Martin Luther King." said using the money for funding Robinson. "No Douglas, no for education programs and 
Truth,  no  economic  
Tubmann. No blacks at  "So much of Washington  development programs.  
all. So much  was built by slaves who  u  s  
0 f Washington was built by  were never paid. nor remembered. America  Representative John Conyers has collabo­ 
slaves  who  did all it could to bury  rated  with  
were paid.  never nor  that past."  Robinson to work toward a  
remem­ commission to  
bered.  Randall Robinson  look into repa- 
America <lid  author  ration  pay- 
all it could to  ments  and  
bury  that  from this com­ 

past." mission, specific programs 
Economic ramifications of could be established Lo benefit slavery continue to impact blacks. black people today, "When we talk about repa­said Robinson. rations, we 're not talking 
According to Robinson, about affirmative action or blacks have lost $80 to $90 gifts, we're talking about what billion per generation as a we are owed," said Robinson. result of slavery. In addition, "I suggest reparations when the amount of unpaid wages paid be need based." attributed to slavery is esti-His book has stirred contra­versv and manv have asked him,' "I didn't own slaves, so why should I be held at fault?" said Robinson. 
"Nobody living is personally culpable but the fact is that when the government com­mits great crimes against humanity, those crimes sur­vive beyond the lives of those not living," he said. 
The issue of using money for reparations is not what dis­turbs people, said Robinson. 
"It's not the money that is the issue. We waste so much money on military toys," he said. "The issue is the disincli­nation of the country to talk about slavery. 
"It is the most steadfast denial. Americans and even the black community runs from talking about slavery because the past is so painful and we don't want to have to confront it." 
By coming to terms with slavery, America can become a stronger nation, said Robinson. 
"A long time ago, America did an awful disservice and crime against humanity and it has to come to tflrms with this," he said. "It wil] make the U.S. a stronger country and close gaps between blacks and whites. We have to come to terms with the idea that you can't have a future if you fear looking at your past." 
. ~ 
Amencan Heart 5A

In an instant a Association®V' 
CORRECTION 
Fighting Hean o;sease and Stroke

stroke can change 
. An article in Monday's Observer called student body vice presidential candidate Brian Clemency by the wrong ffrst
Reduce your 
name.



your life forever 
risk factors 
. An article in Tuesday's Observer said Father Richard McCormick had written articles for Common-wealth Magazine. The magazine is named Commonweal. 
The Observer regrets the error.

f!LASS f!O""CTNC;IL ELEC;TI01fS 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN RUNNING FOR CLASS COUNCIL, INCLUDING OFF-CAMPUS CO-PRESIDENTS AND SENATOR, SHOULD ATTEND AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING ...• 
JOIN US IN PRESENTING EVE ENSLER'S 

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 20 
•••,••

AT6:00 PM 
IN THE MONTGOMERY THEATRE IN LAFORTUNE 
••••1ec1111 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16TH @ 7PM IN CARROLL AUD/TORIUM­


31 yo14 a,o 141ta6la to attaltd, peaaso eo1tli1et 
MADELEVA HALL-SAINT MARY'S 


8ae/iy DaNclfo,, ;J14dle,a1 Ooldtt,il 1/P ol eeutlo1ts 


COLLEGE 

at 1-11666 o, daHc/lo..2 
$2 AT THE DOOR/ $5 IN ADVANCE (ALL PROCEEDS GO TO SEXUAL OFFENSE SERVICES) 
CALL X44 f5/X5234/X4533 TO RESERVE TICKETS 


.;.bwug~t to you by Juditia! Cou11.til 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 16, 2000 



Italian architect to give Burgee lecture 
over the election process. or "As a representative, a lot an electoral college, com­of people have approached
BOG 
prised of resident advisors me as well," Pangilinan said. continued from page 1 from each uorm. The fact "They are pleased about the that HAs arc not elected by apology." 
The final proposed amend­popular vote, as are the The petition was given to ment made to an appendix members of the Executive Midden on Friday, the same states: "If a further tie Board, was brought to day the BOG letter went out 
occurs, a course of action is Midden's attention. to students. at the discretion of the Christine Arzt, an HA who "The Executive Board has present at the meeting,
Elections Committee." was addressed the issue and will "Consistency is important," spoke in her group's get back to the three authors said Nancy Midden, current defense. "Even though we of the petition," Georgeanna
student body president. are not elected. we go 
Rosenbush. director of stu­
The sub-through· a 
dent activities. said. 
mission of a rigorous
''The Executive Board As for the class elections to 
petition, selection 
be held next week, Renner
has addressed the issue 
signed by process. 
stated that the response has 
over 400 and will get back to We touch 
been good.
Saint Mary's the lives of
the three authors "Currently there are four 
students, every sin­
of the petition." to five tickets for the Class of 
conveying gle mem­
2003. three for the Class of 
their dissatis­ber of the 
2002. and two for 2001,"
faction with Georgeanna Rosenbush student 
Renner said. "BOG applica­
the election body."
director of student activities tions will be out tomorrow 
process. was Midden 
night."
also dis-stated that 
Meet the Candidates Night
cussed in the meeting. she felt she had answered 
is scheduled for Feb. 21, and
The three writers of the tho sturlents' concerns listed 
the elections will be held on
petition suggested restarting in the petition in her letter 
Feb. 23.
the elr~ctions, holding a that was mailed to the entire 
Other campus events dis­
series of open forums to student body last Friday. 
cussed in the meeting
clarify events and then hold­"We understand that stu­
included the inclusion of the
ing a revote. They also asked d en ts are concerned." 
Winter Carnival, planned for
for the creation of either Midden said. Senior class 
some sort of review board president Anne Pangilinan 
with Little Sibs Weekend.
that would maintain control seconded Midden's opinion. 

Special ro che Observer 
Noted Italian architect Pier Carlo Bontempi will deliver the Cniversity of Notre Dame School of Architecturn's annual John Burgee Lecture at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday in Bond Hall. 
The Lecture is free and open to the public and will be fol­lowed by the opening of Expo Roma. an exhibition by fourth­year architecture students of work done last vear in Home.

-
The Rome program is the third year of studies for all Notre Dame architecture student<;. Hontempi, whose talk is titled 
-
"A.rchitettura Famiglia." special­izes in urban and architectural work consisting of conservatoin, rnstoration and reconstruction as well as new buil<liug of a tra­ditional nature. He received the European Prize for Reconstruction in 1999 for his work on maintaining the rngion­al architecture or Fornovo di Taro, the small town in which ho was born. 

A graduate of the University of Florence. Bontempi taught there from 1980-85. Ile also taught at the Ecole Speciale d'Architecturn in Paris, the Staatliche Akademie DerBildenden Kunst in Stuttgart. Germany, the Princfl of Wains Institute of Architecture, and in the Florence prgram of Syracuse University. 
The John Burgee Lecture hon­ors the renowned architect who is a 1956 Notre Dame alumnus and a University trustee. 

Gender 
continued from page 1 
masculine substances in the body. Women who did not want to become homemakers were seen as refusing to live in accord with their bodies. 
Fausto-Sterling also dis­cussed how our culture con­tradicts itself by challenging categories on the one hand and reinforcing them on the other. 
"We are still trying to locate gender in the body and in our evolution so the wish to do that is still the same [as in the 1900sl. but now gender is moving unstoppably out of its two boxes. Using gender as a research tool represents a thinking which is lacking sub­tly which is uninteresting to study," she said. 

that one cannot study some­thing without also studying the system that it is embedded into. 
"We can never look for a sin­gle cause hut must always examine the social-biological system. My model for studying what promotes physical group differences is based on the idea that external experiences become internalized. We don't know much about that inter­face but we know it's there," she said. 
She talked about how the high incidence of hypertension in African Americans should bP looked at from an environ­mental standpoint first and then from a genetic one. 
"My hypothesis is that racism is a major contributor to 'hypertension. We should study life experiences and look at how racism is defined in terms of geographical regions, 
She then went on to say that and the roles working condi­r.z-~.::z::~.:::.8'.::!-:::~%.,.ff:Z'%:Z'Z'%%%~%%%%%Z'%%%%%%%Z'%ZZ'%%%%%%%%%%Z'%%%%%%%%%%%%%%, too often we define people as tions and daily stress play. The being either part of one group last thing to consider is genetic 
I '~ -The American Cancer Society I
or the other such as male or differences that affect the female. body's reaction to racism," she "The problem is using dual­said. ism to divide the world," she The lecture, "Heyond Nature 

I presents our Annual I 
said. vs. Nurture: Gender, Race, 
Instead she suggested that Sexuality," was part of a series we adopt a way of thinking honoring distinguished women called the Developmental sponsored by the Provost's Systems Theories which says Office. 



I~-~ Daffodil Days I
I For only six dollars, you can purchase one bunch of ten daffodils, and for 

Notre Dame Film, Television and Theatrt presents 

perfect for your bouquet! ij 

I -. S The flowers will be delivered to the dorms on Thursday, March 2Jrd. I --o.~ I !
J> ; All proceeds from our Daffodil Days goes to the American Cancer Society ;'~ ~ '-.:_-;, ~~ !for use in cancer research, education, programs, and patient services here in I . .__ ,...,. ISt. Joseph County. ! 
Attors frotn the Lot1(lo11 Stage ffi Bring the sign of Spring and the flower of hope to your dorm room. You IAll's \Veil That Ends Well Ican use the order form below to place an order with Jessica Brookshire in i by William Shaknpeare 1204 Rotfs Sports Center or call 1-5829 for more information. I Sunday Matinee. February 20 .......... 2:30 pm Thursday. February 24 ................ 7.30 pm Ir-________ _o~!!'!.d~e_!>!_~~d~J!_b~~y_2~!:_-_-s;,:a.aq.T.,., j 
Wednesday. February 23 .................... 730 pm Friday. February 25 ........................ 7:30 pm all . . ~ Saturday. February 25 ····•········ ........ 7:30 pm i'.. : I want to order --bunches of Daffodils with -vases. it~~ ''h -II : 1.· Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved S eats S16 • Seniors S14 • All Student"'~ S12 ij I1 Name·• ________ . II . 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office MasterCard and Visa orders call 631 ·8128. I,'>
! : Address: ___Hall, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 _ : ~~t::,;~ T:ea:::::e,:c;a::~::::,efi,::,::!~~:d~:=~:/1:Q~~:::::1~·~:,;a;:se~~1~:,:'.~:::g~2,:J::,:~::rts II A'-~ I : My contribution of$__to fight cancer is enclosed. DD.I~FAF?,0 1b : 
.T • ~· ~.'."~~ Commissmri_ a5iare lgem:., ~Jth funds f[um ;he !nd1111c Ge8er2! A~semnlr Jiln ttie ~lanonat tncto·::mem t~r il'!I! ArTs ,.,,~ ~ j L I J 
~ .._,._,._,.~"--"

= ~ ~ -------------------~------------~--J
',:~~~'e:,~~~~~'e"2.,'ffi.;~~ 


.


orld 
I II 
it Wednesday, February 16, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 


WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Cyanide spill threatens Eastern Europe 

BEI.GfiADE, Yugoslavia 
Serbia warned on Tuesday of dangerous metal concentrations in an East European river ,1lready conlaminatfid by a cyanide spill. The Agriculture Ministry said laboratory tests showed considerably increased iron and copper levels in the Tisza river. where the cyanide spill has wipPd out virtually all life. The cyanide poured into streams l'rom a containment dam at a gold min(' near the Romanian town of Baia Mare Jan. 30. The World Hr,alth Organization earlier had expressed concern that lead also _ might have esrapPd into the water. posing 
.potentially a far greater health threat. In l-3elgrnde, Predrag Poli<\ head of the university's Chemistry faculty, said someone "may have abus8d th,~ commotion around the cyanide spill to dump excessive lead quantities inLO the Tisza." 
Russian troops prepare for 'decisive strike' 
ALKHAZUROVO. Russia 
Russian troops regrouped at the base of Chechnya's craggy. snow-covered mountains Tuesday in preparation for a final offensive on rebel lighters' last remaining strongholds. oili­<·ials said. Although acting President Vladimir Putin said no target date had been set for the end of the conl'lict, several Russian officials daimed the upcoming offrmsive would finish off the rebels, who abandoned the capital two weeks ago. Most of the fighters who survived the flight from Grozny are believed to have gone to the south, and ollicials estimate _there are as many as 8,000 rebels in the mountains. Hussian jets and artillery on Tuesday bombed and shelled the strategic Argun Gorge that cuts through the mountains. but Russian troops were slow to move into the area. 
House awards O'Connor, Schulz Congressional Gold Medals 
WASHINGTON 
The I-louse voted Tuesday to award an ailing Cardinal John O'Connor the Congressional Gold Medal. the body's highest civilian honor. The longtime leader of thP New York Archdiocese's 
2.4 million Roman Catholics recently turned 80 and had surgery last fall to remove a brain tumor. lie is expected to retir1: as soon as Pope John Paul II appoints a replacement. The House voted 413-l to give the award to O'Connor. Rep. Hon Paul. H-Texas. was the lone opponent. Paul said he has great respect for the cardinal but opposed the $30.000 it would cost to mint the medal. Separately, the House voted 410-1 to give a Congressional Gold Medal to "Peanuts" creator Charles Schulz. who died in his sleep Saturday. The 77 -year-old cartoonist's last strip featuring Snoopy and the gang was published in Sunday's papers. 
S&P 500: Compo~ite 1+02.05 
Volume:

10718.00 1.186,933,460
+12.11 


VOLUME LEADERS 

k2Nt6.III  tl~ISIIB.  !i fi'.lSAl:ISII  i  ~11661  i:111~1  
MtCR080?'1' co;1:,  MSFT  -1.07  -1.06  98 .SG  
lNT&L COllP  IN'l'C  ... l.93  •i.12  112.00  
C.J;SCO SYSTEMS  c:sco  ~). .9;;1:  -2, SQ  ).21. 00  
('01ff'JYitB,Jt~ ~OR1l  c....  +l~.99  .1.12  l:l .'56  
AMER.IC1'. oSLlNE  M>L  -3.1'  -1-75  54 .(10  
DELI., COMPUTER  DELL  .) ,96  +l,U  J7 .88  
COMP-AQ CONPUTGR  CPQ  +9 .3'7  +2.n  27 .00  
OJUI.CLK CORP MCI WOP:LDCOM IN LOCH HAP:RIS me  Ol\CL WCOM LOCH  -l-30 -•.50 -26 .16  ~0-87 -2 .is.IJ."  U.38 41.81 2 .10  


IRAN 

Friday's elections for the Some conservative voters If it were up to the
Associated Press 
290-member parliament, who turned up for the rally reformists, Iranian women or Majlis. Pitted against the at the Shiroudi basketball would be able to ride bicy­TEHRAN reformists. who are backed arena in central Tehran cles freely in the streetsIn a rare show of public by moderate President were shocked by the and venture outdoors with­
gaiety in Islamic Iran, 
Mohammad Khatami, are singing and dancing. out the obligatory head-to­
thousands of young 
conservatives who want to "This is not proper toe covering, or hijab ­Iranians clasped hands and 
maintain the strict Islamic according to our Islamic activities conservativesdanced to Westernized 
rule imposed after the culture. It is un-Islamic for condemn as un-Jslamic.
music on Tuesday at an 
1979 Islamic revolution young girls and boys to be Speaking to reporters
election rally for a brought the clergy to dancing together. I am after the rally, Hashemi
reformist candidate. 
power. afraid taboos will be bro­said women "have to breakDancing in public places, During Tuesday's elec­ken if this liberal type of this taboo and start ridingeven in sexually segregated tion rally, a band began campaign continues," said bicycles in public." 
groups as occurred 
playing Farsi-language pop Taqi Alizadeh, a hard-line Hashemi. the daughter of
Tuesday, is virtually 
songs after a brief speech supporter. Iran's former president
unheard of in Iran. The 
by Faezeh Hashemi, a Fearing the music would Hashemi Rafsanjani. even 
event showed how many 
female reformist candidate. invite a crackdown by went so far as to say the 
young Iranians yearn for 
As the tempo got faster. police, who are under the Islamic hijab should not bepublic freedom in a coun­about 5.000 young people control of hard-liners, the obligatory.
try where nearly every -in· separate groups of organizers of Tuesday's "I personally like the 
aspect of life is dictated by males and females -rally asked the musicians hijab, but I don't see theIslamic laws. 
swayed to the music, held to leave after about 30 logic in obliging people toSocial freedoms form the hands, raised their arms in minutes. Although public wear the hijab. Women
bedrock of the campaign 
the air and waved them to concerts are not banned, should decide whether orby reformist candidates in and fro. dancing is. not to wear it," she said. 
NORTHERN IRELAND 
/ 
IRA breaks off disarmament talks 
will not happen." The British and Irish governments Associated Press The development underscored the still intend to hold separate talks failure of a 3-month-old deal bro­Wednesday in London with Northern BELFAST kered by American diplomat George lrnland's key parties..But the odds 
Stung by the British government's Mitchell. against transferring powers back decision tu suspend Northern Mitchell had persuaded the Ulster soon to the Belfast administration Ireland's power-sharing agreemPnt, Unionists to establish a four-party look greater than ever. tho IHA broke off disarmament talks coalition alongside the IHA-linked Tuesday's IRA statement came Tuesday, dealing a damaging blow to Sinn Fein party. In exchange, the after an ill-tempered meeting hopes of resurrecting Northern IRA was supposfld to begin migotiat­between Sinn Fein leaders and Peter Ireland's Protestant-Catholic admin­ing lhe gradual destruction of its hid­Mandelson. Britain's secretary of istration. den weapons st()ckpiles, a goal of the state for Northern Ireland, who took 
In a hard-line statement, the IRA province's 1998 peace accord. the decision to resume direct control also formally withdrew from the Instead, Britain suspended the 10-of the province. table its latest hint that it might week-old administration's powers "It was a bad meeting. quite someday disarm. The outlawed Friday after confirming that the IRA frankly," said Sinn Foin leader Gerry group accused tho British govern­had made no commitments to the Adams. a reputed former IRA com­ment and the province's major disarmament commission. The com­mander. Protestant party, the Ulster mission is charged with securing the "And this Sinn Pe.in leadership has Unionists, of pursuing "a military IRA's total disarmament by May in now no further room to move. We victory," something that "cannot and line with the Good Friday accord. havo seen the failure of politics." 

Professor: Pinochet instigated crisis 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
News Writer 
Former Chilean dictator. General Augusto Pinochet. was arrested in 1998 for "crimes of genocide and terrorism that include murder" and he is cur­renll.y awaiting trial from coun­tries seeking his extradition. 
"Pinochet was very insecure and suspicious of people," said Carlos Huneeus, professor in the Kellogg Institute of Visiting Fellows and · the Catholic University of Chile. 
Pinochet can be given credit for modernizing the Chilean presi­dency, Huneeus explained. Hy creating a cabinet composed completely of army advisors, Pinochet n'organized the struc­ture of the Chilean government, placing himself' squarely at the top. 
I 
And though already supported ol' the majority of voters in 1978. Pinochet remained insecure, and eventually came tu place an even greater dependence on military force. 
Despite his heavy reliance on 

his militarv, Pinochet also placed
... 
many responsibilities with civil­ian political leaders. "Pinochet relied more on politi­
= 
E 
allowing a demor,ratic vote, and after two successful terms, Pinochel lost the eleclion in 1988. 
Critics usually concentrate on the specific weaknesses and fail­uros of Pinochet for the ultimate fall of regime. but Huneeus believes that the lasting at'fP.cts of Chile's long history of authoritar­ian rule should also !Je taken into 
account. 

said Iluneeus. "Pinochet 
"Without a cri­"Without a crisis, and developed a 
sis, and with the with the control of the strong and orga­control of the nized army, and
army, there was no need 

army, there was depended on the
Jor his political style." 

no neP<l for his army," said political style." Hunceus. "With 
Pinochet pri­Carlos Huneeus the army, hf' did oritized econom­
not fear political
visiting professor

ic growth. but 
question." When repressed the 
he lost the vote,

civilian popula­and subsequently, the support of 
tion. Pinochet's theory was, 
the army, Pinuchf't fell. said 

"change the economy, and you lluneeus.
change lhe majority of prefer­Pinochet will not stand trial.
ences," said Hunneus. 
however, as "Tho High Court inAnd prior to problems in 1988, London today ordered the releasePinochet was able to successfully of a medical rnport that foundmobilize support. But eventually. 

former Chilean dictator Augusto

the opposition grew stronger, 
Pinnchet mentally unfit to stand

and internal problems rose. 
trial. ruling that Britain's top lawBecause he could not break the 

enforcement official erred in

Chilean tradition of election to blocking it," according to The power. Pinochet was forced to 
New York Times. 

continue with the formality of 
-----------•---------~·--­
Wednesday, February 16, 2000

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Church 
continued from page 1 
therefore makes the Church less Catholic, said Ivers. 
Ivers challenged the audience to remedy this problem by referring to a passage in the book of Luke, "Put out and lower into deep water and lower your ner,ks with a catch." lie explained that "Jesus didn't just sit there; he went out. The only way to minister with people, not to them, or for thnm, is to truly know them." The only way to do this is for people to go out with curiosity, imagina­tion. and the intention of discovering human beings. 
"We have to act like Peter; be honest," said Ivers. 
Ivers articulated two issues he is specifically frus­trated about: celibacy and women's ordination. Because there is no discussion about these contro­versial subjects, they have remained a major cause of controversy. Simply ignoring these issues will not make them go away, Ivers said. 
lvnrs encouraged Pach member of the audience to climb out of' his or her comfort zone, and dive into deep water to address these issues. Having hosted many students on Urban Plunges, Summm· Service Projects, and African-American Leadership Interns, Ivers said that while students at Notre Dame must learn how to swim (the freshmen swim­ming test), they are not required to complete a ser­vice project. 
"[Don't be] content with normalcy, because Jesus tells us normalcy could b<i mediocrity," Ivers said in closing his presentation. 
In the response session that followed, one student said, "We can empower ourselves to not feel so iso­lated, detached [and] unconnectml." Also respond­ing positively to Ivers speech, another student was "energized to know that good work is going on." 
Ivers speech was part of the three-day conference Notre Dame hosted, "Reconciliation and Renewal in the Cities: Faith-Based Initiatives." The conference was part of' the Department of Theology's Millenium Series, "Building the Civilization of Love: Imagining the Third Millenium." 
The cpnference was sponsored by the theology department and co-sponsored by the College of Business Administration, the Center for Social Concerns and the Center for Pastoral Liturgy. 

cians that had their own posi­lions, and who came to their position through the procedure, instead of' him wanting them to be there," said lluneeus. 
With the help of these support­ers, Pinochet was able to create organizations and appoint more than 120 ministers within the government. 
However, "he led in a very dis­organized way," 



is now accepting applications for the THE following positions on the 

2000-2001

BSE 
General Board 

AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe _Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of computer net-• working. The Systems Manager maintains the Macintosh network and printers and is 
' 

responsible for training the entire Observer staff.. CONTROLLER Applicant must be a accounting or finance major. The Controller is responsible for preparing the operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a Web site and is responsi­ble for updating and archiving the content of the site each day. GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with other editors to match graphics with the daily stories. NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have computer skills and a strong background in journalism. The News Editor is responsible for design and content of daily news pages and overseeing a staff of writers and editors. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have computer skills and a strong background in sports journalism. The Sports Editor is responsible for design and content of daily sports pages and over­seeing a staff of writers and editors. The Sports Editor should have a thorough knowl­edge of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's athletics. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have computer skills and strong editorial ability. The Viewpoint Editor is responsible for design and should have solid editorial judgement. The Viewpoint Editor also must oversee a staff of editors and columnists. 
SCENE EDITOR Applicants should have computer skills and a desire to produce intriguing entertain­ment features and to manage a staff of writers and editors. The Scene Editor should have solid design capabilities to produce feature layouts. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Applicants should have solid news judgement and the ability to manage and develop a staff ofwriters and editors. Saint Mary's Editor is responsible for maintaining contacts on campus and overseeing Saint Mary's content in The Observer. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have a complete knowledge ofAdobe Photoshop and a strong back­ground in photo journalism. The Photo Editor is responsible for all photography that appears in The Observer and overseeing a staff of photographers. The Photo Editor should also have experience in photo processing and development. 

AnyJuli-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. A three-page statement ofintent and a resume are requiredfor application. For questions about the application process or far more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4543 or 631-4324. 
Wednesday, February 16, 2000 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 


AFGHANISTAN 

T B 
=CE BT L 
20/60  BFOZLDE  
20/40  CLEODFBZP  
20120  EBFZDOTCPL  

Take the Cardinal Bernardin Vision Test and Win a Full Tuition Scholarship 
The world renowned Archbishop of Chicago saw possibilities and opportunities much of the world was blind to, or dismissed as unattainable. That was precisely what made him so loved by parishioners, presidents and prime ministers alike. He saw "the big picture." 
Today, the Bernardin Center prepares future scholars and church leaders in the spirit of the late Cardinal and visionary. 
We offer full tuition scholarships to courageous and idealistic women and men who are committed to completing an M.A. or D. Min. 
If you wish to pursue studies and research that builds on the inspiring vision of this gentle man of God, we would like to have a closer look at you. 
Application deadline is March 15, 2000. 
Those interested in "the big picture" may make inquiries to: Milt Kobus Director of Admissions and Recruitment Catholic Theological Union 5401 South Cornell, Chicago IL 60615 Tel. 773-753-5316 Fax 773-324-4360 toll free 1-800-265-4560 email: milton@ctu.edu 
Hijackers' families among captives 
Associated Press 
KABUL 
While most passengers on the hijacked Afghan plane cowered in fear, dozens of others ­many of them women and chil­drPn -laughed, tossed aside their veils and received the choir.est food and drink from their captors. 
They were the relatives of the hijackers, according to some of the freed hostages who returned to Afghanistan. Seventy-three passengers returned home; 74 freed 
hostages "We didn't know what 
dren leave
stayed in 
was happening because their seats.
Britain either 
Then the air­
we never knew ofa
seeking asylum 
craft made 
or considering hijacking." 
an emer­
it. 
gency stop in 
Mohammed 
Mohammed Shamsullah Kazakstan.
Shamsullah 
"The sec-
said the hijack­passenger 
ers' goal was to seek asylum for themselves and their fami­lies. He said more than 30 of the people on the plane wern relatives of the hijackers. Some passengers said as many as 40 were related. 
The Ariana Airlines Boeing 727 was hijacked Feb. 6, short­ly before arrival at the northern citv of Mazar-e-Sharif after a flight from Kabul. Nine men jumped out of their seats, bran­dishing guns and knifes. The hijacking ended Feb. 10 in Britain after a standoff with British police at an airport out­side London. 
The hijackers -13 men have been charged in a British court -beat one man with a stick and warned others to keep their heads between their 
knees, the freed hostages said. The hijackers appeared to relax after the aircraft landed 
i.n Britain. 
"We didn't know what was happening because we never knew of a hijacking. 1 thought maybe it is something political or there was a problem with the plane," Shamsullah said. 
His wife,'Shahbibi, was mak­ing her first flight. She said she was terrified: "I just kept crying and praying from the Koran." 
The first stop was in Uzbekistan. Shamsullah said tho hijackers were nervous, 
refusing to let small chil­
ond  time  
when  we  
landed  everyone  was  very  

afraid because there was some­thing wrong with the plane," he said. "When it lauded everyone said 'God is great.'" 
After Kazakstan, the plane stopped in Moscow and finally London, where the passengers were given food and drink. 
The hijackers gave preferen­tial treatment to their families, giving them food and water first and even handing out Pepsis -prized becau-se they're so expensive in Afghanistan -to their chil­dren, Shamsullah said. 
"They gave all the Pepsis to their children and we got what was left," he said. "In our coun­try Pepsi is very sweet, because it costs too much money." 
Another passenger, who iden­tified himself only as Rokhai, said there were 35 to 40 family members traveling with the hijackers. They sat throughout the aircraft, he said. 
"They divided their people among us. Everyone was afraid, but their women and children were laughing, they threw off their burqua and showed their faces. l thought they are very bad," Shamsullah said. 
Afghanistan is strictly Islamic, and men and women who are not related do not interact. Shamsullah said the hijackers talked freely with several women and children "and the women were very relaxed and not worried at all." 
At the outset of the hijacking there were reports that 36 members of the same family were aboard the plane, includ­ing a woman who was to be married in Mazar-e-Sharif. 
Shamsullah denied that there was a bride aboard. Rokhai agreed. 
Only one of the 13 names given to the British court was found on the passenger list at the Ariana Airlines office in Kabul. An official there said the airline may have been given false names. 
Shamsullah and Rokhai spoke to The Associated Press at the airport in Kabul on Tuesday before finally flying home to Mazar-e-Sharif. 
Afghanistan's ruling Taliban have requested that the asylum seekers be returned, and promise they will not be pun­ished. Foreign Minister Wakil Ahmed Muttawakil has warned Britain that to grant asylum to people who are economic, not political refugees, would encourage hijackings. 
Saint Mag~s Collegg 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
The NaNon's Pr&mitu Catholie Wom•n·.s ColleQe 
27th Annual 
LO:N"~O:N" S-U-1.Vl.lVIE~ PR..OCi-~ 
May 24 -June 19, 2000 
FINAL Informational Meef1ng 
6:00-8:00 p.m., Wednesday, February 
16 Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center 
Saint Mary's College ~-.. 
. -. ---:~. J':· 
,,,., 
r,,·._ :; ,;:!° 
. l 
~,:~~~i;~t.~~':37i~t~};,~,~1.~~~if~cr;'~~~ri 
Courses offered in History, Art, Sociology. 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 e-mail: dstefanc@saintmarys.edu Fax: London Summer Program (219) 284-4866 


page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 16, 2000 
• ISRAEL 
-German language offends survivors 

Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Germany's president came to Israel Tuesday speaking words of reconciliation. but the lan­guage he used to speak them -German -sparked contro­versy. 
Johannes Rau, who assumed office last May, chose Israel a8 his first 8tate visit. On Wednesday, he is also to be the first person to address the Israeli parliament, the Knesset. in German -touching a nerve in a land where once the mere idea of establishing ties with Germany set off bloody riots. 
"It is the language in which we were persecuted and mur­dered and tortured and slan­dered and cursed," Dov Shilansky, a former Knesset speaker and a Holocaust sur­vivor, said in a phone inter­view. "The very sound causes [Holocaust survivors] a trau­
ma." 
Rau was conscious of the burden any German state visi­tor bears, and was careful to recall German responsibility for the Holocaust -the mur­dcr of 6 million Jews by the Nazis and their allies in German-occupied Europe from 1939-45. 

"Soon there will no longer be witnesses of our history, which is fraught with unspeakable pain." he said al a state dinner given by Israeli President Ezer Weizman. "Therefore, it is important to pass on our knowledge and our experience to those who in the future will assume positions of responsi­bility in our two countries." 
In each of his speeches, Hau emphasized strengthening the close ties the two nations have enjoyed since 1965, when they first exchanged ambassadors. 
"I would like to invite Israel's youth to visit Germany to expe­rience our present-day culture, to meet young Germans, to build friendships," he said. 
As opposition leader in the 1950s, Menachem Begin led violent protests against accept­ing Holocaust reparations from the Germans -much less establishing ties. The music of Hitler favorite Richard Wagner was banned from public broad­cast here until the late 1980s. 

Attention all Juniors: 
Summer Internship Opportunities 
The Environmental research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science & Technology, will award up to two Summer 2000 internships at ANL in argonne, IL-with a follow­up campus research appointment in the Fall. Stipend, room & board are provided for the 10-week pro­gram. 
Student app/icanr.1 Ilwuld have research interest.1· in a11 e11viro11mentally­related discipline ( any field <dstudy) concerned with or likely to con­tribute to tlze understanding, a,l'sessment, or improvement oftile e11viro11­me11t. Applicants mu~·t be US citizens or permanelll residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their Junior Year by May 2000, and be registered to re/Um i11 the Fall of 2000. 
For more details, contact the Center for Environmental Science & Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. 
Application deadline is February 23, 2000 
IF YOU LOVE SOMEONE... 
Does your friend: 
Fear being around food? 
Panic if unable to workout? 
Obsess about dieting? 
Avoid parties when food is served? 
.. . SET THEM FREE 
1/Ud,, 'Co4,, Sµ,ut, ..,rl ~ol ~ 'Bo4,, ~Z)uo,ul,u ,t~'}(Ult, ?~15-17. 200() //UH,-4/ult,, 
7)oduf 'ROOM tU .!.,a,'J~ 
For more infonnation, contact: University Health Services 631-8286 / University Counseling Center 631-7336 
All Faculty & Students Are Invited to participate in an 
Open Forum on the relationship between academic & student life 
¦ 
What expectations do you have for faculty involvement in student life outside the classroom? 

¦ 
Are academic life and student life well integrated at ND? 

¦ 
What would you like to tell us? 


* * * 
The Ad Hoc Committe on Academic and Student Life will sponsor two open meetings: 
Wednesday, February 9, 4:30-5:30 pm Thursday, February 17, 7:00-8:00 pm 
Both meetings will take place in the Notre Dame Room on the 2nd floor of Lafortune. 
Please join us! 

Wednesday, February 16, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Cigarette tax facing opponents 
Roscoe, vice chair of the Associated Press 
Benicia-based chain Cigarettes Cheaper! that has 229 stores 
BERKELEY,Calil'. 

in California. 
Firsl, Mealhead vunquished 
A rncent Field Poll indicated 
the Marlboro Man in a the repeal effort has yet to 
cliffhanger finish. Now, in the catch on with voters. Twenty
best Ilollywood tradition. 
nine percent of those surveyed 
comes the sequel. 
were in favor of Proposition
Fourteen months after he 28, while 57 percent were 
persuaded California voters to 
against it and 14 percent were 
raise cigarette taxes by 50 
undecided. The poll, conducted 
cents a pack to create new between Feb. 2 and Feb. 6 
funds for early childhood 
among 1,186 registered voters,
developmPnt, nctor-dirl'ctor 
had a margin
Hob Reiner is 
of error of 
back on the 
"I never underestimate plus or minus
campaign 
tobacco interests, what 3 ·6 percent­
trail. This 
age points.timf' he's they will be willing to do. The tobacco 
fighting 
the length:,; they will be taxes were
Proposition 
_, created 
28, a March 7 willing to go to. " t h r O u g h ballot mea­
Proposition 
sure that 
Rob Reiner 1 0, which 
would repeal 
narrowly
actor-director

the new taxes 
passed in 
he champi-
November 
oned. 
1998. They"I never underestimate generate an estimated $700 
tobacco interests, what they 
million a year by raising state 
will be willing to do, the 
tobacco taxes, including a 50­
lengths they will be willing to 
cents-a-pack hike for ciga­
go to." said Reiner. "It's r:cr­
rettes that brought total state 
tainlv unbelievably annoying cigarette taxes to 8 7 cents a 
that I'm having to do this. but I pack.
can't say I'm surprised." 
The money goes to programs
His opponent is cigarette 
for children under five, with 
retailer Ned Roscoe. who says 
most of it going to locally
the taxes are bad fiscal and appointed county commissions,
social policy. 
based on birthrates. The first 
"To take money from smok­
payments, totaling $362 mil­
ers and to waste it and to use 
lion, were distributed in 
it in a way that is actually bad October. 
for society -thut's a bad lhing 
In the Proposition 10 fight,
to do. Whal vou see here is the 
Reiner was up against a battal­
politics u( division," said ion of big-moneyed tobacco 
interests. He had an enthusias­tic campaign style and name recognition as Michael "Meathcad" Stivic from TV's ''All in the Family" and as a director whose credits include "When Harry Met Sally." 
Heiner's forces spent $10 million to Big Tobacco's $30 million but squeaked out a vic­tory by about 80,000 votes out of 8 million, a finish so tight it took days before victory was officially declared. 
This time around, it's not clear what role, if any, the tobacco giants will play, Campaign finance reports filed so far don't indic:ate any major tobacco donations, but it is not unusual fur money to flow in late in the campaign. 
Hoscoe says he's gotten no indication the big companies will help him. 
Heiner says Roscoe is no small independent. 
"This is a guy that's got 550 stores around the country," he says. "He can characterize himself anyway he wants to, but ultimately it's the tobacco internsts that are trying to take this money away from chil­dren." 
If the repeal effort does get a last-minute influx of cash, Reiner is prepared. 
"In a way we're even fighting harder this time than last time. We won by such a thin margin last time I want to send a mes­sage to tobacco ... 'The voters of California really do care about young children. You should stop and go away and stop trying to fight us on this."' 



']Jou ':lire Cordially 9noiled lo !he 93/ack Culiural9/ris Council of 9rolre CJJame 
CJlear 2000 cproducHon of 

Blak Koffee House 


u'.A Cfiose is UHi!tl Cfiose: Our 9lisfory is cyour 9lisfory,, 
CfridtJy £oening, %brut1,y 1<5 8:00 p. m. -E11Cforlune 93allroom oludenl· S3.00 / Qeneral S5.00 crickets can be purcho.sed al lhe door. 
'1>/erue drru.1 t1.ppropriolely. 
'Fugitive' trial points to neighbors 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 
F. Loe Bailey, who won acquittal for Dr. Sam Sheppard at the doctor's second murder trial, testi­fied Tuesday that two neighbors killed Marilyn Sheppard in the 1954 case that partly inspired "The Fugitive" TV series. 
Bailey's version of the murder is at odds with the theory supported by the Sheppards' son, Sam Reese Sheppard. who has sued the state claiming his late father was wrongfully impris­oned for wife. 
Under cross-examination, Bailey said Sheppard told him privately he might have confronted two people. 
Bailey testified that Spencer and Esther Houk, neighbors of the Sheppards, may be responsible for Mrs, Sheppard's beating death. Bailey said Mrs. Houk might have caught her hus­band and Mrs. Sheppard having sex. 
Both Houks have been dead for years. After Sheppard's 1966 trial, Bailey's theory was pre­sented to a grand jury, which decided against 
10 years "I think the bushy-haired for his 
man got a life ofhis own.
mother's 
That was one feature of
death. Bailey, the assailant that Sam t h e 
could remember. " 
celebrity lawyer 
F. Lee Bailey
who also 
helped lawyer defend 
0 ' J ' 
Simpson, was the first wit­ness. Shepp_ard's lawyers want him to show the doc­tor's first trial in 1954 was unfair because of a flood of negative news reports. 
A few years after Bailey took the case, the (J.S. Supreme Court overturned the first trial's verdict in a landmark ruling against pretrial prejudice from adverse media publicity. Sheppard's acquittal came at a 1966 retrial. 
The doctor told authori­ties repeatedly that a bushy-haired intruder at the family home on Lake Erie early on July 4, 1954, beat his wife to death in her bed. 
Sheppard said he was knocked unconscious twice while trying to help his 
LEADERS 
Full-time college student or graduate. Starting salary, $32,000. Post offer mental and physical screening. 
Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for an interview 1-877-299-9'W7 www.MarineOfficer.com 
indicting the Houks. 
Sam Reese Sheppard thinks a win­dow washer for the fami­ly, Richard Eberling, was the murderer. Eberling was convicted in 1989 of 
killing an elderly widow; he died in prison. 
Bailey also conceded that Sheppard did not recognize Eberling as the killer when Eberling testified at Sheppard's 1966 retrial. 
"That did not happen." Bailey said. 
Prosecutor Steve Dever said during an argument without the jury present that Bailey's testimony is important because it showed Sheppard changed his story about the killing. 
However Bailey said Sheppard was consistent. 
"I think the bushy-haired man got a life of his own," Bailey said. 
"That was one feature of the assailant that Sam could remember." 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER Wednesday, February 16, 2000 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O..!lox Q. Notre D,mc, IN 46556 024 S,,u,h Dining Hall, Notre Dam,, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CH!H Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGEII  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
Assr. MANAGING Et>IT0R  
bun Perelle  

N1ows EonoR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MAR¥'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERfl.>ING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
Ao DESIGN MI\NAGER: tlrer H udat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushca 
CoNmOLlER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDIT0k: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGF.R/GENERAl. lNF0..............6.'!l-7471 
FAx .. .... .... .. .......................... 631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................63 J-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MA."IAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME... ................631-454 l BUSll',ESS OFFICE..... . ................631-5313 NEWS........ . .................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S ... .........................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@r1d.edu PHOTO.......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .. ..............63 J-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire ai http:llobserver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sporrs, teatures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
Note to the incoming Notre Dame stu­dent body president and vice president: When it comes to election procedures, the on-going discontent at Saint Mary's should, I trust, keep you from following 
Jason McFarley
their lead. But as for the true spirit of student govern­ment, Notre Dame The Bottom could certainly Line 
learn a lesson from Saint Mary's. 
I must give credit where credit is due. The Belles are on the ball. In imple­menting change and addressing key concerns, thev leave Notre Dame stu­dent leaders in the dust. And the view from back here isn't encouraging. 
Consider Saint Mary's stance on race relations. The women continue to move forward in their strategy to increase the diversity of their campus. Their latest advance comes in the form of a new Student Diversity Board. The board, approved last week by Saint Mary's Board of Governance, seeks to develop among Saint Mary's students a working knowledge and understanding of the cultures of their minority and interna­tional peers. 
While the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs at Notre Dame serves a similar purpose to the Notre Dame community, it differs from the Student Diversity Board in one principal man­ner -OMSA wasn't student-initiated. 
Saint Mary's student activities direc­tor Georgeanna Rosenbush recently told The Observer, "I believe that the new [diversity] board established at this proposed level of student government will have an impact on the studf'nt and campus culture as a whole over time." 
It will. Especially if it stays committed to its educational intent. Presently, plans are underway for publications to be put out by tho board and students can expect sut:h opportunilies as dra­matic productions and speaker series. 
Scorn one, Belles. 
But that's just one matter that Saint Mary's student government tackles. 
Remember the panel than convened on their campus two weeks ago? It was comprised of lesbian alumnae who spoke frankly of their homosexuality with current Saint Mary's students. Those very same students subsequently wrote letters and offered insight to The Observer, on the whole expressing how stimulating open discussion can be. 
Open discussion, huh? What a con­cept, not to mention something striking­ly absent from the Notre Dame campus. 
It bears repeating that University offi­cials' "keep it in the closet" attitude toward sexual orientation may survive in the United States military as "don't ask, don't tell." But it undoubtedly has no place in an academic setting where communication should be at its least encumbered. It bears repeating that where adult leaders fail to cultivate such an environment, Notre Dame stu­dent leaders should thrive. 
Doing so, of course, means fostering sincere dialogue about critical student interests: race and sex, but also other such overlooked matters like women's issues. As much as we like to say that diversity and tolerance are more than talk, we must concede that candid forums provide exceptional platforms on which to come to value each others' differences -or at least accept them. 
Don't tell that to those who equate acceptance with endorsement, though. According to their line of thought, con­versations about race, homosexuality and gender are dangerous signs of fur­thering some sort of radical agenda. But let's be clear here. Students can share in such discourse without pro­moting any activist social designs. 
Actually getting students involved, I suppose, is another affair. Yet Saint Mary's student leaders seem to have lit-tie trouble prompting campus-wide participation. 
I hate to bring up that nasty election again, but there's a moral to the story. Yes, the final balloting decision marked a lacking end to an otherwise intriguing contest. But look what it has done for Saint Mary's. An experienced leader has already stepped down from the Board of Governance as a direct result of of the questionable election proce­dures. Students are making daily appeals for either a revote or the resig­nation of the declared victors. And three Saint Mary's women have circu­lated a petition and collected student signatures. 
Even if students' confidence in the BOG is a bit rattled at the moment, can we really say anything less about the leadership at Notre Dame? Can we hon­estly dispute Saint Marys' efforts when an impressive portion of its students remain earnestly involved in and informed of student government func­tions'! · 
And think, mustn't Notre Dame stu­dent governors be much more willing to garner the input of the men and women they represent in order to accomplish the same feats as Saint Mary's? 
The bottom line here: As the heads of Notre Dame student government, the newly-elected student body president/vice president would do well to at once find inclusive, engaging means to confront under-served issues while increasing total student involve­ment in campus politics. 
Following Saint Marys' example is a fi1rn place to begin. 
Jason McFarley is a freshman in the First Year ofStudies. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those <!{ the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
weather for up-to-rhe minute forecms 
advertise for policies and rares of prim ads 
archives to search for articles published after August 1999 movies/music for weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­cial campus coverage 
about The Observer ro meet the ediwrs and staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe studenrs ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial coment, indudir1g advenisemems, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insrirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisements based on conrem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of rhe majority af the Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisranr Managing Ediror and department editors. Con1mencaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofrhe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informarion. 
Questio11J regarding Obsen1a policies Jhould be direct­ed to editor in Chie(Micheile Knipa 
DILBERT 
u
DOG BERT CONSULTS 
!: 

--:_:.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.::.:.--;;. 
E
MANAGEMENT IS 
~ 
u, ~
LIKE A.N ORGANISM 
~
THAT NEEDS TO 
..• ~ •
SURVIVE ANO 
!
GROW. 
;; 
:, 
0 
0 
0 
"' 
g 
! ~ 

EMPLOYEES ARE YOUR 
FERTILIZER. 
--------..w.------;j' ---~-----'-iliioiii.............. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
50 I'M LIKE A WELL­
FERTILIZED PLANT? 
NO, AND SADLY, WEASELS 
DON'T NEED 
FERTILIZER. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Many a man owes his success to his .first wife and his second wife to his success." 
Jim Backus 
author 
-

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, February 16, 2000 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Coach D applauds student enthusiasm, encourages respect 
WOW! I cannot thank you enough for all the support you have given our team this year. The energy and enthusiasm that you demonstrated at Lhe UConn game was unbelievable. Without your support, we could not have beaten the defending national cham­pions. Wn wnrc dog-tired at the end of the game, and you all gave us the energy to light through fatigue and come avvay with a big-time win at tlrn Joyce Center. · 
The Joyce Center was truly rocking. It was lih a dream for me. When l took this job. I had hoped that there would be days like Saturday. I newr imagined it would come in my first year on the job. I have asked you to come out and support our team, and you have. 
01w thing that I would like to ask you is this: As you show your support ror our program, please continue to do so in a classy manner that represents this line University. I love it when you all go nuts and create terrific chants. 
However. some of the chants and displays on Saturday were out of character for Notre Dame. Anything that is vulgar or is a per­sonal slur has no place in the Joyce Center. We need to make sure we avoid that kind of activity in the future. We can get the same effect by being a wild and crazy M.O.B.! 
Again, thanks for your tremendous support! I hope to see you all at our Providence game on Wednesday, Feb. 23! Go Irish! 
"Coach D" Men's Basketball Coach February 15. 2000 

Eating disorders hit men, too 
We, thn malr, nrnmbcrs ol"the llall Presidents' Council, would like to encourage all male undergraduates to complete an Eating Concerns Survey that will be sent to you shortly by the University Counseling Center. 
Eating concerns are often seen as only "a women's issue," but that is not the case. Many men have eating disorders and prob­lems with body imagfl. Additionally, there may be situations in which a !'emale friend is having problems but you do not know huw to act or to help. Your responses to the survey will be kept anonymous. and the results will help the University develop better resources for studr.nls on campus. Thank you. 
Michael Morales Geoffrey Rahic 
Drew Olejnik Brian McCabe 
Knott H~II Dillon Hall 
Dan Brosmer Lawrence Burdett 
Brian Rigney Sorin Hall 
Paul Sepe Nicholas Pacelli 
Morrissey Hall Siegfried Hall 
Ryan Hodge Anthony J. Polcari 
Joe Ribando Fisher Hall 
Zahm Hall Christopher Clement 
Bob Le Blanc Keough Hall 
Carroll Hall Tim Greene 
Aaron Osland Judson Penton 
Keenan Holl Sr. Ed's Hall 
Matt Alles 
O'Neill Hall fcbruarv 15, 2000 
OBSERVER page 11 
UConn chants were not that bad 
I sent the following message to David Haugh regarding his column in Tuesday's South Bend Tribune: 
You might tell Frank Morock to look at the TV replay of the 1987 Notre Dame-Duke bas­ketball game at Cameron Indoor Stadium. The Rluo Devil mascot wore a large headband that read "BuckwheaC and the Duke students chanted "Buckwheat" every time that David nivcrs touched tho ball. There was no racist outrage from the media and no apology from Duke. 
At the 1989 Notre Dame-Miami football game in the Orange Bowl. the Miami students in the upp<~r deck urinated on the Notre Dame fans in the lower deck. After the game, cars with Notrr Dame decals were vandalized in the parking lots. I was there. I was presidimt of the Notre Dame Club in Palm Beach. Again, them was no outrage from the media and no apology from Miami. 
r have dozens of other examples from the past 30 years when Notre Dame has been the target of far worse incidents than the UConn game chant. Get off of your high horse and get a life! 
Bill Fenton 
Class of 1974 
February 15. 2000 
Stolen bouquet sours V-Day 
St. Val~mtine's Day is marked by love and giv-Hall they delivered them to McCandless Hall at ing -at least that's what I was always taught. Saint Mary's. The florist apologized for the mis-In today's day and age, flowers and candies are take and I was understanding, especially since the usual gifts that guys and even ladies, send it was Valentine's Day and becausl1 they were their sweethearts, their mothers and others obviously more than busy. that are important to them. When thfl florist went back to McCandless 
Never would I have believed that a group Hall, however, to pick up the flowers and take of individuals in the Notre ------them to McGlinn. the flowers had been 
Dame/Saint Mary's community 
would have been so cold-
hearted on such a day. 
One week earlier, I went 
to a local South Bend 
flower shop that I 
have been going to 
since freshman 
year. I've had them 
send flowers to my 
mom back at 
home. my sister 
here on campus, 
and this year, to 
my girlfriend of 10 
months and her 
three roommates. When I walked my 
girlfriend back to 
McGlinn Hall I was 
expecting roses to have 
already been delivered. 
Well, there were no flowers to 
be found. I then called the florist 
to ask them if they knew of my delivery 
or if they could give me any information. I could tell that they were very busy, but they were helpful in answering my questions. They called me back after checking on my order and discovered that they had made a mistake. 
Instead of delivering the flowers to McG!inn 
separated from their bouquet and taken by whoever wanted them. 
Even though the flowers were clearly marked "McGlinn Hall, Notre Dame" and 
included a card wishing my girlfriend Happy Valentine's Day (our 
first Valentine's Day together), residents of McCandless Hall destroyed them. 
Theft, meanness ­don't know what to call it, but whatever it 
is, it's not right. Why would someone take apart a bouquet that was obviously a heartfelt gift just for their own pleasure? I know this is not the end of the world, but I feel that if any­one else had this done to them, they would be just as upset. 
Michael Fairchild Senior Alumni Hall February 15, 2000 
Show degrades women, marriage 
Last night, FOX hosted the most watched wed­ding since Charles and Diana. The show, "Who Wants to Marry a Multi-Millionaire," paraded 50 single women ranging in age from 19 to 43 in beauty pageant form across a nationwide stage. Instead of a sparkling rhinestone studded crown, the prize was a middle-aged millionaire holding a three-karat diamond ring in a Pumpkin Carriage­style box. The Cinderella motif was a valiant attempt to romanticize this pathetic display of superficial degradation. 
Contestant No. 1 was asked what she would do if she was at a party and one uf her husband's friends hit on her. The question is ridiculous. Other questions followed this format, asking about ex-boyfriends and strip clubs. It's nice to know that this man isn't interested in the brains that lie beneath the beauty of these 10 women. These women didn't just parade around in swim suits and answer asinine questions, they openly admitted to the public that they are interested in abandoning their chances for romance and courtship to marry for money. 
The contest began with 50 women representing 25 states and 8 countries. These are women with wonderful careers or college students on their way to successful futures. There was an environ­mental engineer. an ER nurse and, of course, a professional model thrown in there. These women could have lived successful lives without a multimillionaire to pay the bills. They participat­ed in this event to grasp their opportunity to live on "easy street." There is no other explanation. 
These women were interested in one thing, bringing home a rich husband. It's a superficial way to enter the so-called sacred institution of marriage. 
Winning a millionaire husband on a TV show completely degrades the sacrament of marriage. The entire idea of marriage is the unification of two people out of love and trust. How can two people take vows which state "I pledge you my love and devotion" when they just met? 
Marriage involves an eternal commitment to "love, honour and cherish." The only things these people love, honour and cherish are money and companionship. These aren't the basis for a mar­riage. This marriage involved a contest, a prenuptial agreement, and an exchange of empty vows. 
Tho judge began the ceremony with "Dearly beloved," but the only lovn on that stage was shared by Mr. Multimillionaire and his 80 family and friends. A person can't pledge a lifetime to someone when they don't even know their last name. No little girl dreams of her future husband saying "I, Rick, take thee ... what's your name again?" 
lt was so appropriate for the new husband and wife to dance their first dance to Savage Garden's "I Knew I Loved You Before I Met You." 
Alisa Schmitt Freshman McCandleSli Hall February 15, 2000 



I 
I 
i 
C 
page 12 
HEALTH COLUMN 
Eating Disorders Survey 2000 
Editor's Note: In conjunction with the Uniuersity Counseling Center. Scene pre­sents a series offive columns this week that highlight eating concerns in recogni­tion ofEating Disorders Awareness Week. 
This wer~k. all undergraduate 1\Jotre Dame men and women 18 years and older and not studying abroad will receive the Eating Concerns Survey 2000 from the University Counseling Center. Rita J. Donley The survey will and Dominic 0. assess the need on 
Vachon 

this campus for pro­grams and services Unirersitythat address eating 
Counseling

problems. We plan to 
Center

do this by measuring how manv students are struggling with their own eating con­cerns as well as determine how others eating behaviors impact significant oth­ers in their livP-s (e.g. roommates. bovfriends/girlfriends. teammates. etc.). 
The Counseling Center has found that individuals tP-nd to distort this issue. Some people believe that no problem exists while others fear them is an epi­demic. In 1988 a survey was distributed requesting information from all N otrc Dame undergraduate women about their own eating behaviors. Some of the results of this study are included in this article. 
It is time to ask for input from the stu­dent body again so we can gain an accu­rate picture of how this issue impacts the day to day lives of all students. We are purposely sending the survey to all male students this time because we know this issue impacts their lives as well. Re­search studies suggest that for every ten women who struggle with their eating. one man is struggling with his eating as well. In addition. men have concerns about some of their friends' eating prob­lems. 
Participation is completely voluntary. Responses on the survey arc anonymous and the surveys are not coded in any way. The more surveys that are returned, the more accurate the results will be. In addition. this survey. unlike the one in 1988, assesses the impact of eating concerns on significant others. 
Surveys should be returned to the labo­ratory for soda! research through cam­pus mail as soon as possible. A return campus mail envelope is enclosed with the survey for your convenience. If com­pleting the survey creates concerns for you. please feel free to contact the Counseling Center for assistance at.631­7336. 
This problem is not unique to Notre Dame. The U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have designated Feb. 12­
19. 2000. as "National Eating Disorders Awareness Week." Programs are being conducted throughout the country to pro­mote publir, awareness about this issue. We have provided a number of programs and services over the years. but gaining your input is especially important this year. Your responses will allow us to address what services and resources need to be offered in the future. 
In 1988, we asked ourselves: "Does Notrn Dame have more women strug­gling with eating disorders than other colleges and universities?" Christine Conway. l'h.D., Anne-Green Emrich. Ph.D .. and Mary Raeker. Ph.D. reported the results in The University of Notre Dame Eating Disorder Survey, January 1989. 
In terms of eating conr,erns. we were similar to other private, selective colleges and universities. The survey addressed five issues: (l I the extent of eating prob­lems among Notre Dame undergraduate women; (2) the age of onset of eating problems; (3) the extent to which women with eating problems seek treatment; (4) the relationship between eating disorders and other familial problems; and (5) the behavior patterns whkh arc symptomatic of an eating disorder. 
Of the 2,229 women surveyed. 975 responded. This 44 percent return rate differs from typically cited surveys in that the entire population of undergraduate women at Notre Dame was sampled. The results of the survey should be interprt't­ed 'hith knowledge that the condusions were based on respondents' self-rnports. Also. diagnostic criteria developed !'or use in clinical interviews were applied to questionnaire data. Both of these proce­dures could have resulted in an inaccu­rate estimate of the presence of eating disorders in the Notre Dame community. 
The study found seven percent of the sample were diagnosable as bulimic. while 0.6 percent were diagnosable as anorexic. Nine pcrr,ent had all but one symptom of bulimia and four percent had all but one symptom of anorexia. Thus. 20 percent of the sample had either a diagnosable eating disorder or a serious eating problem. With the above-men­tioned cautions. this would generalize to approximately 450 wonrnn at Notre Dame having serious eating disorders. 
Results of the study also indicated that 46 percent of' the respondents had some symptoms of an eating disorder and 34 percent were r.onsidered normal. While comparison with other studies is prob­lematic. these results are generally con­sistent with other studies of college women with a slightly higher incidence of bulimia in the Notre Dame respondents. 
The majority of women exhibited symp­toms of these problems prior to entering Notre Dame. 
However. more serious symptoms (such as self-induced vomiting and laxative abuse) seem to develop during college. The results suggest the progressive development of eating disorders in which weight control begins with strict dieting and culminates in purging and laxative abuse. 
Relatively few of the women surveyed who reported eating problems had sought treatment either at the University Counseling Center or elsewhere. Eighty­seven percent of those with serious eat­ing disorders and 95 percent of those with some symptoms had not sought pro­fessional help. The responses suggested that women either felt that their problem was not serious enough to warrant help or were embarrassed to have others find out about their eating problem. 
Female students with eating disorders did not report a higher incidenr,e of alco­hol or drug problems than those with some eating symptoms or those consid­ered to be normal eaters. A higher ind­dence of family problems with food and a higher inr.idence of forced sexual contact was found among students with eating problems than with the other two groups. One behavioral component of' eating dis­orders seems to be obsessive thinking about food. In a student population, the preocr.upation with food may impede academic concentration and interfere with soda! funr,tioning. 
What will the new survey tell us? Hopefully. much more lhan lhc 1988 sur­vev did. We will learn abont men's con­ce;·ns with their own eating. We will be able to r,ompare how women r-nsponded in 1988 to undergraduate women in 2000. We will be able to sec how much others struggles with eating impact the lives of their friends. roommatns, team­mates and signilkant others. We will be able to evaluate what we do and how we do it. This has to be a cooperative effort. 
If we do not hear from you. we do not know the best ways to respond. Please take 20 minutes and complelc the survey 
a.s soon as possible. We thank you for your assistance with this project, 
The views expressed in lhis column are those of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
s 
Wednesday, February 16, 2000 
THEATER PREVIEW 

By NELLIE WILLIAMS Scene Writer 
Eve Ensler wants you to see, hear and feel that women's bodies are sacred. She wants vou to know that women's bodies are a part of their selves. 
"The Vagina Monologues," per­formed tonight at Saint Mary's, is not to be taken lightly. The show. which is based on Enslcr's
The Vagina 
Obie Award-
Monologues 
winning show 
. Where: Carroll containing col­lective inter•
Auditorium, Saint 
views with Mary's College more than 200 women,
. When: Tonight, 
includes com• 
7p.m. 
passion and 
brutality. 
Sara Salazar. president of Feminist Collective and CARE (Campus Alliance for Hape Elimination) at Saint Mary·s. first learned about the "Monologues" through the Internet. A college ini­tiative has been sent out to cam­puses all around thA world to get involved with "V-Day." the ·v· standing for vagina. anti-violence and victory. 
V-Day. designa.tcd to carry oul "The Vagina Monologues," was started on Feb. 14, 1998. in New York, launr.hed as a movement to embrace womanhood and end vio­lence against women. Last year, V­Day was celebratr,d in London with actresses Melanie Griffith. Kate Winslet and Cate Blanr,hette per­f'orming. Thnrn are more than 150 colleges and universitiP-s perform­ing "The Vagina Monologues" this year. 
Salazar. who started planning tbis event in December, said it is a very worthwhile production. 
"We want this to give more awarenoss to women," she said. "SomA women feel really discon­nectt>d with their bodies."' 
Actresses in the production include several young women from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, a 
professor and a sister. 
Catherine Pittman. psychology professor at Saint Mary's and director of the "Monologues," is very pleased the College has been so supportive. 
"Our college has been very sup­portive," she said. "It's part of the 'Love Every Body' week." 
Pittman feels it is very important for women to claim their bodies and talk about their experiences. 
"Only when we can cipP-n our­selves in this way to taking hold of the language, and using it, trans­forming it, can we begin to ground ourselves in our own experiences. Otherwise we will simply be thP­object's to other's experiences," she said. 
'Tm hoping it will capture peo­ple's atlention," said Pittman. "We're trying to say. women's bod­ies are sacred and we want tor.el­ebrate them. We want people to use these words [vaginal -they're what are used. You have nothing until you use them." 
Following the produr,tion, there will be breakout sessions, where people can discuss what they have heard and how they are feeling. 
"We want rpeople] to see and feel more r,omf'ortahle with their [bod­ies)." Pittman said. 
Students in the production feel this is a grnat opportunity. 
"There is mis-education given to women in society," said Megan Bodary. "We should feel comfort­able talking about our bodies ­they arc ours." 
Jaimie Newcomb is exr.itetl to sec how people react to thfl mono­logues. 
"I think there will be lots of strong mixed reactions." she said. 
Pittman said these monologues have even helped the women act­ing them out. 
"It has opened up dialogue between people. There arc person­al things that we've shared and talked about. I hope this spreads br.yond us to other people."
All proceeds for tlrn show wHI be given to the Sex Offense Services (SOS). 


Wednesday, February I6, 2000 page 13 
WelKOM to West Quad's Welsh Family Hall 
Fditu1•'s nule: Scrme u•ifl continuf' t.o fee/lure the dorms and residence halls of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's lhmugh­out the spring semester. Anyone int.er­esl ed in writing a Jealure uf a dorm should e-mail Scene at Sr:ern1@nd.edu. 
By JACQUELINE OSTROWSKI 
s~ene Wrirer 
A prime location paired ·with develop­ing traditions in athletics and service make Welsh Fumilv Hall an ideal home for its 257 resid!ints Though WC'lsh Familv is une of Notre Dame's newBst rcsidP-nc,i halls. tlrn wom1rn or Welsh have alrPady established what thry hope will become annual traditions. 
l{esidP:nts srem to agree that one of th !1i r dorm's strengths is a thle ti c,s. "Varsity sports are encouraged here," said senior KPrrie Johnson. Even those "Whirlwinds" who do not partir.ipate in sports notice the supµortive atmosµhere toward athletir. activity. Welsh Family is home to many varsity sporls nrnmbers, including three basketball players. How!wer. the athlt>tic edge to Welsh goes beyond varsity sports and extends to dorm competition. 
Tlw women diptured the women's llag football championship this year. and earlier this month. Welsh Family, along with Keough. triumphed in the Late Night Olympics. The dorm's basketball team also hopes to continue a strong season. 
"WP're very strong, athletically," said Sister Adrienne Pimrnettc. who serves as rector of Welsh Family. "It's a tradition that may continue." 
Piennette's hesitancy to confirm that athletic strength is a definite "Whirlwind" trait re11ects the fact that Welsh Family is still creating its own campus identity. In fact, Piennette com­mented that many people have confused Welsh Family with Walsh Hall because of the similar dorm names. Having exist­ed for only threE years, the residence hall has tough competition from other well-known dorms that boast years of opportunities to make their names known. 
Still, Welsh has take.11 promising steps toward increasing dorm awareness. The women have already created a signaturP event that has received considerable campus support. The Welsh Family Feud, hosted and created by Walsh resi­dents. is a game show similar to the pop­ular television program. This year, thP family Feud wlll be held March 25 at Heckers. The night before the event. WB!sh will host a hall dance. 
· The women of Welsh also hope to begin a tradition of service. Last year, Welsh Family sent two buses to Chicago lilied with walkcr.s !'or the Walkaihon for JuVfmile Oiabetf':s and raised $:-3 ,00(). In the future. they anticipate the event will grow and i.nclude both walkers and sponsors from all parts of r.ampus. 
Other perks to Welsh life include the amenities of a new dorm. "Physically, it's a nice dorm." said senior resident advi­sor Kristin Gerber, noting Welsh's spa­cious lounges and brand-new facilities. 
Those who live in other. less-superior dorms will notice the luxurv of life on the West Quad. In comparison to some of Notre Dame's older dorms, Welsh reallv shines. Its numerous lounges add to its list of assets. "It's very conducive to community living [to have] section lounges on every floor," said Johnson. 
Another of Welsh's finer qualities is that it lies within close distance of manv important campus buildings. "One of the best things about Welsh is its location," said sophomore Rachel Willcox-. "We're close to DeBartolo, the bookstore and the dining hall." 
Welsh residents also know they have the support of Robert and Kathleen Welsh, the couple for whom the hall is named. Alumni of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, respectively, the Welshes come to every home football game and make an effort to stop by the dorm and talk with residents. They also contribute in other ways, such as purchasing T-shirts for residents and sending gifts of recog­nition for the championship flag football team. 

Even though their hall is young when compared with dorms such as Sorin or Morrissey, Welsh Family residents have plenty to brag about. If anything, their 

'Roos of Keough Hall have lots o' fun 
Editor's note: Scene will continue to feature the dorms and residence halls of Notre IJame and Saint Mary's through­out the spring semester. Anyone inter­ested in writing a feature of a dorm should e-mail Scene al Scene@nd.edu. 
By COURTNEY KERRIGAN 
Sten~ Wrircr 
Many have passed it on the way to the bookstore. It's onr. of the four almost identical ~new dorms" on campus that evr.ryone simultaneously hates and envies becausp thPy don't gPt to livP there. It's air-conditioned. the rooms arc huge in comparison to typir.al Notre Danw dorm rooms and there arn f'Pwer prob!Pms with lwat<\l'S and plumbing than tlrn older dorms. suc:h as Badin. experit'nee. 
Tile 'Hoos \short for Kangaroos! or Marilyn Keough Hall an> in their fourth year of' existence, but they have already established traditions that are known around campus, Sll!'h as the Chariot !face and Tlin \VhiL1\ Wedding. It is the hom<1 of Ivan Kartelo. a freshman mem­ber the basketball team. Father Mark Pnorman, vic1J president or student. affairs and Brian O'Donoglnw and .John Micek. candidates on separate tickets for student bod:,-prnsidcnt and vice pnisident, rcspcctivi1ly, and many other athlews and big guys on campus. 
Keough is well-known. however, no1 unly !'or its fun and game.s, buL also for its dedication to hospitality and commu­nity service. ncctor Father Tom Doyle graduated in the '80s. He was student body president and a walk-on for the football team his freshman year. He has elevated the spirit of Keough Hall to one equaling that of the older, more estab­lished dorms. 

Two of the most famous Keough events are the Chariot Race, which takes place in the fall: and the White Wedding, which took place Saturday night. The White Wedding is actually a mock wed­ding; Keough Hall residents vote on who will be married, and the whole ordeal is ­really just a parody of the entire wed­ding ceremony, a great excuse for an SYR and a party. 
This year iL was especially romantic because one of the resident advisors, senior Brian Bausano, proposed to his girlfriend (who accepted), and all toasts following the c,cremony were made for the happy couple rather than the mock • bride and groom. 
Thr Chariot Race is another fun activi­ty, a great reason to hang out outside. have a barbecue and have some good old fashioned chariot-racing fun. All sec­tions of Keough construct chariots and any dorm on c,ampus c,an enter the race. It's a great time with some great looking guys -check it out next fall, girls. 
Marilyn Keough Hall is an all-around great dorm. Chris Clement. hall vice president, said he loves Keough ber:ause "it's got a great community, the sports teams are very good, the Masses are well-attPndPd by girls and even guys off campus and we hope to make our Chariot Hace and White Wedding huge events on campus." 

said: "We have a rnal sense of tradition. and in our three-and-a-half short veurs we have developed a sense of com~uni­ty unique to Keough Hall." 
JusL two years ago, Keough won the interhall sports trophy. Mass at Keough is always full -people living off-campus attend, us well as many girls and other non-residents because of the music and the welcoming attitudes. rather Doyle encourages this and is very proud of it. Ile is also a Notre Dame man, having 
... 
-
"youthful" age serves as an advantage as the women pursue new traditions and activities. As they make themselves com­fortable in their dorm lounge, the newly christened "Family" room, the "Whirlwinds" are surely contemplating the many virtues of living in Welsh Family Hall. 
-· 

----------------, 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 16, 2000 
NBA 

Raptors keep winning streak alive 
Associated Press 
Vince Carter scored 29 points and Tracy McGrady had 18, including 14 in the third quar­ter, as the Toronto Raptors won their seventh straight home game vrith a 91-70 win ovPr the New York Knicks on Tuesday night. 
Doug Christie, the Raptors starting point guard for tl1e past three weeks. had 'l 1 assists in the first quarter and 13 overall. 
McGrady. wearing a brace on his right arm after bruising it during Saturday's All-Star dunk contest. dominated in the third by scoring 10 straight points at one point. 
Carter, the slam-dunk champi­on, dominated the first quarter by scoring 15 points as the Raptors outscored the Knicks 32-16. 
The Raptors led by as many as 18 in the first half, but the Knicks went on a 29-13 run, with Houston scoring 13 points, to pull to 47-45 before the Ruplors ended the quarter with a 6-0 run. 
Toronto opened a 23-point lead in the third quarter as the Raptors held New York to just eight points. 
McGrady single-handedly outscored New York 14-8 in the third. His 10 straight points included two slam-dunks, a fade-away 16-foot jump shot, two free throws and a lay-up. 

-
Hawks 103, Nets 86 
Dikembe Mutombo had 21 points, 13 rebounds and 11 blocked shots for his third career triple-double as the Atlanta Hawks beat the New Jersey Nets. 
Mutombo blocked Kendall 

Gill's lay-up with 4:27 remaining to register his first triple-double with the Hawks. 
Muiombo. a three-time NBA defensive player of the year, had 10 points, seven rebounds and five blocks in the first half alone. 
Alan Henderson added 21 points and Jim Jackson had 20 for Atlanta, which has won seven of its last 10 games. 
Stephon Marbury led the Nels, who lost for the eighth time in their last 10 games, with 27 points. Following a 3-for-14 shooting performance in the first half, Marbury scored 15 points in the third quarter. 
Cavaliers 92, Spurs 81 
Lamond Murray scored 27 points, rookie Andre Miller had 20 and the Cleveland Cavaliers began the second half with a shocking win over the San Antonio Spurs. 
The Cavs, coming off an injury-filled 19-30 start to the season, snapped a four-game losing streak by out-hustling the defending NBA champions. 
Shawn Kemp had 14 points in 28 foul-plagued minutes and Mark Bryant had 10 rebounds for the Cavs, who started a hob­bling Brevin Knight at point guard and were without ·Bob Sura. 
Tim Duncan scored 21 points and David Robinson had 20 points and 11 rebounds before fouling out with 55 seconds left. 
The Spurs were flat from the start and had one of their poor­est offensive games of the sea­son. San Antonio shot just 39 percent and got little help from its bench. 
Miller's 3-pointer with 3:35 left was the biggest shot of the game. Alone on the right wing, Miller initially hesitated before knm,;king do\vn the 3 to give the Cavs an 88-76 lead. 
Miller and Murray put the Cavs in position to win, combin­ing for 14 points in the third quarter when Cleveland outscored San Antonio 27-15 to take control. 
Heat 107, Clippers 88 
Jamal Mashburn scored 26 points to lead the Miami Heat to a 107-88 victory over the reeling Clippers on Tuesday night, handing Los Angeles its seventh straight loss and 17th defeat in 18 games. 
The Heat, winners of six of seven overall and a season-best six straight at home, got 20 points, 13 rebounds and eight blocks from Alonzo Mourning. 
The Clippers, who lost 13 straight on the road, were with­out rookie Lamar Odom, who stayed in Los Angeles nursing a sore right shoulder and tendini­tis in his left knee. He played in tho All-Star rookie game last weekend. 
Eric Piatkowski. who took Odom's spot, led the Clippers with 15 points. Eric Murdock added 13. 
Charles Jones' lay-up cut Miami's lead to 41-37, but the Heat reeled off an 18-7 run to lead 59-44 at halftime. 
Voshon Leonard, who scored 15, had two 3-pointers and a lay-up during the spurt, and Mashburn scored 16 points on 6-of-8 shooting by halftime. He finished 9-of-14, including 4-of-6 on 3-pointers, and grabbed eight rebounds. 
Mashburn hit two 3-pointers and t\nthonv Carter fed P.J. Brown for a fast-break dunk to cap a 14-5 run early in the third quarter to give Miami a 73-52 lead with 5:31 left. Carter had eight assists. 
NHL 
Oates, Simon give Capitals 2-1 edge 
Associated Press 
Adam Oates and Chris Simon each had a goal and an assist in the second period Tuesday night as the Washington Capitals won their franchise-record ninth straig'ht at home, 2-1 over the Colorado Avalandrn. 
Oates' 10th goal broke a tie as time ran out in the second period. 
Washington, which has not lost a game at MCI Center since a 1-0 defeat to Montreal on Dec. 13, is 14-2-2 in i 8 games. The Capitals are unbeaten in 12 home games (10-0-2). one shy of the team record set in 1992-93. 
Richard llejduk scored for the Avalanche, who lost their third straight road game. 
Olaf Kolzig made 31 saves as the Capitals improved to 17-4-6 at home. 
The Avalanche, 1-6-1 in eight road games, were 3-0-1 in their last four against Washington. The Capitals last win over Colorado was March 6, 1997. 
After failing to convert two first-period man-advantages, the Capitals were successful on two straight. 
Simon broke a scoreless tie 
7:32 into the second, scoring his team-high 18th goal on the Capitals' 20th shot. lie settled Oates' centering pass with his right skate, then flicked the pur.k past Hoy from the edge of the left circle. 
With the Avalanche on a power play, I-lejduk tied it by hatting in Adam Deadmarsh's rebound at 11: 13 for his 26th goal. 
Oates restored the lead with time running out in the sec­ond and Colorado's Alexei Gusarov off for tripping. Simon, at the right post. sent a sweeping pass back to Oates between the circles. Oates weaved a shot through traffic with 0.1 remaining in the period. 
Senators 5, Hurricanes 1 
Vinnie Prospal scored two goals to help the Ottawa Senators extend their home winning streak to four games with a victory over the Carolina Hurricanes. 
Shawn McEachern, Daniel Alfredsson and Marian Hossa also scored for Ottawa before 16,610 fans at Corel Centre. Ottawa closed within four points of first-place Toronto in the Northeast Division. 
Nolan Pratt had Carolina's only goal. 
The Senators have won only three of eight games and are winless in five road contests, but improved to 15-8-5-2 at home. 
The Hurricanes had won seven of 10 after snapping a five-game losing streak, including winning three straight road contests. 
McEachern opened the scoring with 5:08 remaining in the first period, beating goalie Mark Fitzpatrick to a rebound and scoring while falling. 
Prospal leaned around Ilurricanes defenseman Sean Iii!! in the slot and beat Fitzpatrick with 23 seconds left in the period. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Wanted  50 serious people to lose  3-4 bdrm new home, lip, cathedral  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  Do any former 3A residents remem­ 
NOTICES  WANTED  weight, safely & effectively. Natural/guaranteed www.lose-now.com  ceilings, 3 baths, 2-car garage, family room. $1400/mo.  with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082  ber the Sadie tragedy? First she was tossed, squished and  
or  616-683-503B  bruised  
Are you a music lover who'd  Childcare needed.  l·B00-883-1569  219-340·1844  
....  like to pick up a few extra bucks 1his semester? Pop in to Orbit Music at 1841 So. Bend Ave and pick up an application. Find out more abou1 all three of our stores  1 or 2 students for 20 hrs per week between 9 and 5 to watch 2 yr old & newborn for ND prof in our home. Experience and transportation required. Some flexibility in scheduling possible.  FLINT COMPLETE PERSONNEL SERVICES 102 N. MAIN ST. SOUTH BEND  219-232-4527 HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-oodroom, 1-bath, newly refin­ished wood floors, $1200/month. 2) 4-bedroom, 1-bath,  PERSONAL www.thecommentator.com  And then frozen I miss Sadie Sean, where's sean? If he's not here on Wednesday,  it'll  
at www.orbitrecords.com.  Please call Rose  FLINT IS RECRUITING FOR  $1000/month.  Holderererer,  be your head  
at 289-3865  THE FOLLOWING  3) 3-bedroom, 1-bath, $700.  Like it or not, party at your place  
LOST & FOUND  WEB DESIGNER NEEDED National Publication has opening  PERMANENT POSITION  We will work with you on any changes you may want made to the houses, including such  Gay, Lesbian and Christian? Trying to appreciate, live and love these  You better be there Or I'll make it your head  
ANNABELLE-YOU LEFT YOUR  for designer to help improve and maintain existing sites.  INSIDE SALES REPRESENTATIVE  things as pool tables, privacy fences, and painting.  realities? Looking for a few others who are  Just because we're related doesn't  
- GLASSES AND CONTACT CASE IN MY CAR WHEN I GAVE YOU A  277-0033 www.nkn.com  Growing and Expanding Staffing Looking For Highly Motivated,  Call Bill at 675-0776.  doing the same? Call Tom (1-4112) or Tami (1-3016)  mean i should be responsible for you  
RIDE TO ND FROM THE TRAIN STATION MONDAY. CALL 272­ ATTENTION SOUND ENGINEERS  Energetic Person Must Have C/S Skills and  Room 10 min. from campus. Cute & cozy.  for information about a safe and small gathering tonight  You'll have to pay me if you want  
9225.  Local Sound Company has open­ings for experienced FOH engi•  Sales Exp.  Furnished + possible efficiencies. Prefer mail renter.  (Wednesday) at 9:00 PM.  my help when it counts  
LOST -2/7/2000 Administration Building or lot A-9 area.  nears and stage hands. Call 277-0032 www.thesoundcompny.com  Interested Candidates Please Contact Kim (219) 233-2150  $300/mo + half of heat in winter & half of electric in summer. Call Sandy or  OUTDOOR ADVENTURE INTER­SHIPI with Idaho Whitewater  The circle is strong How are the other shapes holding up?  
1/2 Karat Tear-drop wedding dia­mond ring. Size 5 Priceless memories REWARD1!1 631-4349 Of 616-687-8123  GRAPHIC LAYOUT International racing publication has opening for computer graphics lay­out person Looking for fresh excit­ FOR RENT  Eric 247-9407. New Phone Card B86 mins. $20 258-4805 or 243-9361  Rafting Company owned by ND Grads. Learn about operating a small business, entrepreneurship, marketing, and business strategy. Plenty of time to float the rivers too'  TP -you are awesome even if you do spend too much time in the din­ing hall Usa Marie P -hope you resolved  
If anyone has picked up an old gray knit glove I would actually pay to get ,t back, that is how important ,tis to me. Also, if anyone has found or has seen a skateboard with a blank  ing designs to improve established magazine. Flexible hours. 277-0033 Editor/proof reader needed to work with writers for national publication. Flexible hours. Ca112n-0033  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE ANO CLOSE http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ ema1l:mmmr0ntals@aol.com 232-2595 6 BEDRM. '00-'01  FOR SALE GREAT STUDENT CAR. '88 FORD FESTIVA, BLACK.  Informational meeting on Mon 2121 @ 12:30 & 3 PM in 204 St. Ed's. Email Andy at anachman@yahoo.com or call@ 208-634-1606 with ques­tions.  the "Kurt" situation, because hey, why not, right? Ms. Erin, Tis I, writing you a classified ad. Aren't you just thrilled? I would be if I were you!  
wood colored bottom and white wheels, l offer a reward  Seeking female roommate for 00­01 school yr Campusview Apts.  $1200/mo. 273-04B2  2-DR, GOOD CONDITION. MANUAL TRANS., 5€K,  Life is what happens when you're  TV shows  
for that as well.  Approx.$250/mo + utilities. Email  AM/FM CASSETTE.  making other plans.  
For any information call  lwangens@ nd. edu  Ava1latlle '00-01.  FACULTY OWNED  David Bowie  
Gavin at 4-1267  4-6 Student Rental House... 2 1 /2  WISERVICE RECORDS. $750.  Russian proverb:  
DOG-SITTER:  Love dogs?  baths: lots of space;  237-1981  Love is not like a potato.  UB40  
Pis. help me!  Need a sitter for  Parking Lot and Laundry.  You can't throw it out the window.  
Lost: silver. panoramic Minolta camera on 2/5/00. Possibly left in Michiana taxi. Any info call Mary  my new puppy esp. JPW. 1-2 al!rns/wk and Wed. nites.  Dave 291-2209 B'NB REGISTRY  for sale couch with hideabed good condition $150 includes throw and extra pillows. will deliver  And you can throw oranges out  here's another one for you too EEC two in one day. it must be a miracle  
Ellen 284-5451  Call Megan @ 246-0295  219-291-7153  phone 282-2228  the window too.  finished  

Wednesday, February 16, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

eon s 
op on SO ind 
. More 
(j_rl;;I2.(Tech Web. 
• l11i:C:Hi~i~i,: )r•l"l::ca~i,;o,,.=:.: _-:i,i,,,y~ C.. b~: c;.•:n,ei):;:;.,,,;: (Business Wire, 1/26) 
,?114 messages to read 
. ;-i~.,-1:'l:•.;t. ;:..,_ ~-,(:,J\I .M -~ :;; 3 _~ ,;.,l f·l 
Featured Messages 1/27,'\)0 -::·:t<.>.:-rr~,t •~ N,=:,,, M,.~l_i:~,, I got a call trom them recently in an effort to recruit mE! for a position that I was not interested in. \fl/hat .... .:sill 
1127/00 -:,-:1.·~·r,e -~ N..=: .. ,, M(':,_\::.:, Unless yo~, fathd can meet the speed of delh,ery. customer Ser.rice. and price ot la19er corporations already. . rr,e>:•? 
at the indus:t:ry, r-=ad our 0'1a,n,i~;;,, 
Books 
Newsstand . More 
f,11,: C,,:,r1;1::.:.:m••. Coveis1he latest business nel/1.IS .and trends, leading-edge entrepreneurs, .rnd o1 course, the fastest 
Professional Training .-Mare 
~'tr ~:,t ,~'l' .-.. t-,!-=_;:~;.• ,.~~_.1.,-,~.,:-:t .. C.:.rr,r.,r:.:rt·•:.i r,,pi •.~ r;;;_::~ .:.~:ti~·•~·. • Th is course help managers .it <11l levels: keep daily decisions and actions consistent with the long·term str<1tegic process. 

we have 214,285 jobs posted by 20,9118 .:,., employers 
Joh Seekers 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

Judge releases Lewis from jail 
.Linebacker free on $1 million bond 
A<sociated Press 
ATLANTA 
A judge granted Ray lewis a $1 million bond Monday, saying the Baltimore Ravens linebacker could stav at his home in !\J aryl and while awaiting trial on murder charges. 
Defense attorney 
M a x 

.. 
Richard­son said he would 

Lewis
try to get Lewis out of jail later Monday night or early Tuesday. 
Varinus NFL figures, including team owner Art Model!, testified for Lewis at the day-long hearing, calling him "dependable" and a "good citizen." 
The 24-year-old Ravens star and two companions are charged with murder in two stabbing deaths during a brawl at a post-Super Bowl party on Jan. 31. 
Lewis did not speak at the hearing, but shook hands with his lawyers before he left the courtroom. 
He has been held without bail since his arrest the day of the slayings. 
One of his two codefen­dants turned himself in Monday; the other is at large. 
Superior Court Judge Doris Downs said she found no evidence that Lewis, who had no prior felony convic-
Dayto~Beach Resort 
Jtf(Off(Uf{l(fllfl 
..,lc•s starll•tt atS89~'2,. 
86~"654-6216 
Viii • •l w,n,.tk,IOllbeukcM>d.C011 or www.dlacolllbrulcoa 

tions, poses a significant threat to flee the charges or to intimidate any witnesses. 
The bond requires Lewis to stay in Maryland unless he is traveling to Georgia for events related to the case. She required that $200,000 of the bail be in cash and said Lewis cannot use alco­hol or drugs uf any kind while he is out. 
She also said Lewis must be home every night before 9 p.m. 
All parties in the case are under a gag order. 
Model! testified that Lewis impressed him by spending some of his signing bonus money to buy his mother a house after he was the Ravens' No. 1 draft pick in 1996. 
"He's a good citizen for the Baltimorn Ravens," Mode!l said. citing Lewis' willingness to visit hospitals and do other charity work. "There's no question in my mind that he would be dependable and live up to his obligations, no matter what it is." 
Both sides emphasized to Downs that they were not interested in arguing Lewis' guilt or innocence during the bond hearing. But the issue led to several sharp exchanges between prosecu­tor Clinton Rucker and Lewis' mother, Sunseria Keith, and great-uncle, the Rev. Clinton Stancil. 
Keith said she knew her son didn't kill anvone "because I gave him life. I raised him." 
Modell drew laughter from the packed courtroom when, pressed by Rucker on whether his team was better with Lewis than without him, said, "We'd be a better team with Johnny Unitas if he were still available." 
''I'm worried about Hay Lewis, the person. I'm not worried about mv football team," Model! sail 
Ed Garland, another Lewis attorney, asked Model! whether Lewis would suffor serious financial harm if he wern unable to play out the remaining years of the four­year, $26 million contract extension he signed in 1998. 
"I hate to even predict that, but he'd lose his job," Model! said. 
Meanwhile, Atlanta police said Joseph Sweeting, 34, of Miami surrendenid to authorities Monday morn­ing. The third suspAct, Reginald "A.J." Oakloy, 31, of Baltimore, remained at large. 
At the hearing, prosecu­tors stressed that Lewis, who played college football at Miami, was much closer to Sweeting than he admit­ted to police. 
They showed a picture of Sweeting with his arm around Lewis to each wit­ness. 
Lewis, Sweeting and Oakley were indicted Friday in the deaths of Richard Lollar, 24, and Jacinth Baker, 21, who were stabbed during the fight out­side an Atlanta nightclub. 
Lewis' lawyers say he tried to break up the fight, did not see the crime and was at least 60 feet away when Lollar and Baker, both of Decatur, Ga., were stabbed. 
Police say Lewis drove away in a limousine and later was uncooperative with investigators, providing misleading statements. 
Wednesday, February 16, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Tigers' hiring changes satisfy commissioner 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 
The Detroit Tigers escaped punishment for not consider­ing minority candidates when they h.ired a manager, with commissioner Bud Selig saying Tuesday he was "delighted" with new efforts the team pledged to undertake. 
Selig told teams last April that they must consider minor­ity candidates, but the Tigers didn't interview any last fall before hiring Phil Garner. 
Tho NAACP asked Selig to punish the team and the com­missioner said he would inves­tigate. Under baseball's new constitution, Selig has the power to fine teams $2 mil­lion. 
Detroit said Tuesday it cre­ated a five-member communi­ty advisory board to work on minority employmAnt and con­tracting issues, as well as on public relations. 
"We expect the board to rec­ommend a number of tangible steps our club can take to honor the distinguished histo­ry of African-American base­ball in this community and to foster the love of baseball by our young people," Tigers president John Mcliale said in a statement. 
Selig said the move satisfies his concerns about Detroit's hiring practices. 
"I am delighted with the cooperation of [owner] Mike Hitch, John McHale and the Detroit Tigers," Selig said in a statement. "This is a very pro­gressive and sensitive series of programs. The Tigers have 
t: Justin Du 
oc Brown Pia 
me Join the Tr · re now bei er positions
•...·.·academics 
~l< up applicatio
"f Student Acthli 
315 LaFortune 
: Februar 
recognized the problem and addressed it. That, I believe, is more import.ant than taking disciplinary action." 
Baseball spokesman Rich Levin confirmed that the Tigers will not be disciplined. 
Larry Parrish was fired as manager on OcL 14 and Detroit replaced him with Garner, citing the former Milwaukee manager's "burn­ing desire to win." 
General manager Randy Smith said Garner was the only person interviewed for the job. 
The Brnwers fired him in August in the midst of a sev­enth straight losing season. 
NAACP president Kweisi Mfume called the hiring "essentially a slap in the facr." to minorities such as Atlanta Braves coach Don Baylor, San Diego Padres coach Davie Lopes, Philadelphia Phillies coach Hal McRae and New York Yankees coach Willie Randolph. 
The NAACP could not be reached for comment Tuesday. 
Named to Detroit's advisory board were Tom Goss, Michigan's former athletic director; S. Martin Taylor, member of the Michigan board of regents and former director of' the state's unemployment insurance agency; Carmen Munoz, chairwoman of Munoz Machine Products; Jim Stapleton, chairman of the Detroit Urban League; and Nate Ford, a board member of the NMCP's Detroit chapter. 
"The board will review with Tigers' executives the club's hiring patterns and recruiting efforts," the Tigers said. 

" 
·------·-. ' -i 
Wednesday, February 16, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 16, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Griffey trade cannot solve Reds' pitching woes 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
The Ken Griffev Jr. trade gave the Clncinn'ati Reds a superstar and surge of inter­est as spring training app­
roached. So far. so good. Now, 
w  h  o '  s  
going  to  
pitch?  
T  h  e  


trade that / reunited ,( , J u n i o r ""--'-G---r-iff•e""y~....___, 
with his hometown also subtracted from an already shaky starting rota­

_., 
tion. The Seattle Mariners gut right-hander Brett Tomko as part of the 4-for-1 deal. 
When Griffey shows up along with the other position players next week in Sarasota, Fla.. all the atten­tion is going to be on the cen­ter fielder. 
A more important chore starts in Sarasota this week. when the Heds begin weeding through 37 pitchers to figure out who's in the rotation. 
Griffey may get the head­lines, but it will be the pitch­ing that either gets the Reds to the playoffs or causes them miss out once again. 
And right now, there are at least as many questions about the pitching as there are pitchers in camp -37, after they signed Osvaldo Fernandez to a minor league deal Tuesday. 
"That's not enough," gener­al manager Jim Bowden said. "You don't get enough pitch­ing. We've all talked about it. Pitching is going to separate how far you go " 
Last season. the Reds made it to the doorstep of the play­offs, losing a wild card tiebreaker to the New York Mets. 
They made it that far because their bullpen led the majors with a 3.36 ERA and Ron Villane and Steve Parris joined the rotation during the season and had career years. 
The Reds also got a boost down the stretch from Juan Guzman. acquired in a July 31 trade with 13altimore. 

Guzman left as a free agent 
after the season. 
The bullpen is intact, 
though not without questions. 
Can Scott Williamson repeat 
the success that made him the 
NL Rookie of the Year in 
1999? 
Will Danny Graves and the 
rest of the youngsters be able 
to come through again? 
~we don't have a lot of depth in our pitching," man­ager Jack McKean said. "It. was evident last year when we went out and got Guzman to give us a last-minute shot. 
"We have to be concerned. With the experience they got last yirnr. can our young pitchers continue at the same pace? Or oi1ce again, do we have one slip or fall off for a year'?" 
There's little margin for error in thP rotation, which was full of qur.stions even before the Griffey trade. 
Left-hander Denny Neagle hopes to be free of the shoul­der weakness that wiped out much of his 1999 season. 
Pete Harnisch, the Reds' lop starter last season, chosP not to have surgery on his trou­blesome shoulder over the winter. 
Instead, he did strengthen­ing exercises hoping to elimi­nate the pain that limited him much of the season. 
If those two guys aren't healthy, the Reds are sunk. 
"If we're going to win this division, we've got to have Harnisch and Neagle win 15 games," Bowden said. 
The rotation was tottering last season until Villonc went from the bullpen into the rotation fur the first time in his .career and went a career­best 9-7 with a 4.23 ERA. Parris also had a career vear. going 11-4 with a 3.50·EBA following l1is May 3 call-up from the minors. 
The fifth starter? It could be Mark Portugal. 
The 37-year-old right-han­der went 7-12 with a 5.51 ERA for Boston last season, lost his final four decisions and was released. 
"If he has medical prob­lems, the only way you find 
Maureen McGrath 
.r 

out is to pitch him in the spring," McKean said. "If' he's healthy, he might be a guy who could be a sleeper lrncause tw does know how tu pitr.h." 
Hegardless of who makes the rotation, McKean is push­ing for a quick start. 
The Reds went 9-12 last 
April, their only month with a losing record, in large part because of the rotation's struggles. 
The 37 pitchers and seven catchers are scheduled to report in Sarasota on Wednesday, take physicals on Thursday, and have their first workout on Friday. 
"When you talk about our pitching staff, the key is get­ting ready so we can have a decent start," McKeon said. "Last year our starters were in trouble with Neagle, Pete and [Steve] Avery not being 100 percent. Hopefully all of our guys are 100 percent this 
year." 


MEDllWPLAV® 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
MEDIDPLAY.COM-
Sale ends February 26, 2000. Product selection and pricing may vary online. 
Cassettes available on select ritles. 
803920 1808 

1 
Wednesday, February 16, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 I 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Dolan buys Jacobs' Indians 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 

Larry Dolan, who grew up hoping he would someday play !'or the Cliweland Indians. offi­cially owns the team. 
Dolan's $:123 million pur­chase l'rom Richard Jacobs was completed on Tuesday when tlw deal closed. 
"We are extremely excited that this day has arrived," Dolan said in a. statement. "It is a dream come true fur me and my family, Ownership of this franchise is a great honor and comes with an incredible sense of responsibility. Cleveland has the best baseball fans in America." 
Dolan. 69, a managing part-
VIOLENCE-FREE IN THE JUBILEE: 
A SERIES OF LECTURES ON BUILDING PEACEINY2K 


ANNE PARRY 

Institute for Choosing Nonviolence February 17, 2000, 7pm at the CSC Topic: Presentation on Take Ten© Violence Prevention Initiative: Changing the Culture ofViolence tluough Churches and Schools. Take Ten teaches people of all ages to "Walle It Out, Talk It Out, Wait It Out" when faced with conflict. Come and learn about an exciting non-violence movement working its way into the South Bend community. 
cm 
CENTER fQ!q 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
ner of a small law firm in sub­urban Chardon, was vacation­ing in California and unavail­able for comment.. The team said Dolan will hold a news conference when he returns at the end of the month. 
The Indians' sale was approved last week by the team's public shareholders, who will receive $22.66 per share of stock, 
The final sale figure -$3 million more than previously estimated -is a record for a baseball team, topping the $311 million paid by the Fox division of Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. for the Los Angeles Dodgers in March 1998. 
After his purchase was approved by major league owners last month, Dolan said he wasn't planning any major changes to a team which has won five straight AL Central titles and made it to the World Series twice since 1995. 
"The old axiom, 'If it ain't broke, don't fix it,' applies hero," he said. 
Jacobs and his late brother, David, bought the Indians for about $45 million in 1986. The team, still without a Series title since 1948, endured five straight losing seasons through 1993 before turning it around when it moved into Jacobs Field in 1994. The Indians have sold out every home game since early in the 1995 season. 
Because of a previous agree­ment, Cleveland's ballpark will keep the name Jacobs Field at leaJt through the 2006 season. 
NFL 
Prosecuters want death for Carruth 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
Prosecutors made it official Tuesday: They want the death penalty for Rae Carruth, 
With Carruth and his mother in court, the prosecution said spedal circumstances warrant the death penalty for the for­mer Carolina Panthers player. 
However, Assistant District Attorney Gentry Caudill would not say what those circum­stances were. 
From the outset of the case, the prosecution has said it would seek the death penalty in the murder of Carruth's girl­friend. But the request was finally put befon~ Judge Shirley Fulton on Tuesday. 
Carruth did not speak during the brief hearing. 
His lawyer, David Iludolf, said Carruth is doing well, given the situation. 
"He has faith and he knows he's innocent," he said. "And he has faith that the system will work." 
Rudolf asked the judge to encourage prosecutors to begin turning over evidence, such as witness statements and tele­phone records. 
"We have not gotten any­thing, not a single piece of paper," he said outside the courthouse. "It's important that discovery rolls ahead so we can start working on the case," 
Caudill said the district attor­ney's office will provide the material as quickly as possible. The judge scheduled a hearing for April 3 to review progress. 
Carruth and three co-defen­dants are charged with first­degrf1e murder in the drive-by shooting in November. 
Cherica Adams, 24, was shot four times in her car while dri­ving on Nov. 16. Soon after­ward, she gave birth to son Chancellor, 10 weeks prema­ture. Adams died Dec. 14. 
A similar hearing was held Tuesday for two of the other three defendants. 
Stanley Abraham, l 9, and Michael Kennedy, 24, appeared briefly before the judge. The death penalty will be sought against them as well. 
The hearing for the other defendant, Van Brett Watkins, will be held later this month because one of his lawyers was involved in another murder case Tuesday. 
All four are being held in the county jail without bail. 
Last week, Carruth reiterat­ed that he did not kill Adams. He said he was on the phone and miles away from the mur­der scene. 
Prosecutors and another defendant have said Carruth was talking with one of three other murder suspects from his nearby car when Adams was shot. 


INTERESTED IN RUNNING 
FOR 

STUDENT SENATE? 
IF SO, 

ATTEND AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING ON 
WEBNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2000 AT 5:30 P.M. IN THE NOTRE DAME ROOM, SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
ASK QUESTIONS LEARN WHAT SENATORS Do 
STAY FOR THE STUDENT SENATE MEETING AT 6:00 P.M. 
SPONSORED BY THE STUDENT UNION SENATE 

page 20 

College basketball fans get pumped for March 
It's the middle of February which means we're only a month away from the middle of March, and you know what that means? 
We're only weeks away from lhe greatest time of year-the time when basketbaJJ rules over the rest of the sport­ing world and you start to care about every game. It doesn't matter if it's Florida International squaring offagainst Louisiana-Lafayette for the Sun Belt Conference crown and an invitation to dance, or Michigan State and Ohlo State, already in the posL5eason. but battling for pride and seedings. 
What time 1s it? 
Grunetime.primctbne,NCAA tournament time. Or, more simply put, it's just madness. March Madness. If you looked back in last year's Observer archives, you might find a story sounding suspiciously familiar to thls one v.Titten by (you guessed it) me. 
So why, besides drawing a blank on what I wanted to write about for the second year in a row, would l once again go about hyping up the tournament to end all tournaments a month before it starts? 
Well. because it is the tourna­ment to end all tournaments, when Dick Vitale goes nuts over "Dipsy­do dunkaroos1" thrown down by "diaper dandies" and the CBS voice-over guy says "Sponsored by Pennzoil" in his unique voice. 
There are so many games going on at once in the first two rounds they'll sometimes split the screen into two for a "Live Look-In" at Arizona-Santa Clara where some­how Santa Clara is still out in front even though the clock has wound below 10 minutes. You sit on your couch or La-Z-Boy and watch the never-ending stream of scores flash across the bottom of your screen, like a stockbroker on Wall Street watching the market. Only you probably yell louder, especially when you picked seven out of the eight games in the East Regional wrong. 
Everyone has their surefire picks, their upset picks. and their "I didn't know anything about either team 

Ted Fox 
Fox Sports ... 
Almost 

,, 
1' 

so Ijust guessed" picks. So, in that spirit, I'll makP-a few picks ofmy own concP-rning Notre Dame and some ofthe teams thoy'vo battled this year. Even though the qualify­ing teams haven't even been named yet, I'm not going to let that stop me. Foe! free to laugh when most ofthese are provc•n ¼Tong. 
First of all, Arizona, who the Irish foll to in the preseason NIT. 76-60, currently stands Fourth in the coun­try. I haven't seen this team play much, except through tlrn window at an airport bar, but since lhey'vc overcome the previously mentioned Santa Clara/early round jinx of the early '90s, they've been a force in the tournament each year. Send them to at least to the Elite Eight, maybe farther. 
I don't like No. 10 Indiana to do much besides v'.ID a first-round game because I never really like Indiana to do much. l know, real scientific procedure here. 
Syracuse never got the respect I felt they deserved, only reaching the four spot despite being the lone undefeated team left when thev were 19-0, less than two weeks ago. However, they did play a weak non-conference schedule and accu­mulated back-to-back losses to Seton Hall and Louisville la.'it week, dropping them to ninth in the polls. I look for them to win two and make it to lhe Sweet 16, but the run for the Orangemen \-Vill stop there. 
UConn is the defending national champion, but, as Notre Dame showed for the second time thls season on Satmday, the Huskies are not the juggernaut of a year ago. Champions don't go down eas­ily, but that mentality only goes so far. The Huskies, like conference rival Syracuse, will go to the round of 16 before ending the title streak at one. 
Finally, the one team we all care about and the one pick I'm pretty sure of, the Irish. At 15-10, Notre Dame is in a tough spot right now. They still have five conference games ahead of them, none of which is easy. However, before the St. John's game, I told my room­mate that ifthey won that day, the lrish would be in that final group of 64 come March. They did, and I believe they will. It's just a little more exciting now. 
How do I love this time ofyear? Let me count the ways. 
The views in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
The Observer. SPORTS Wednesday, February 16, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ratay earns Big East honors 
. Freshman garners fifth award 
Special to The Ohserver 
For the second consec­utive week and fifth time this season, Notre Dame freshman Alicia Hatay has lrnen named the Big East Rookie of the Week. 
The 5-foot-11 guard from Lake Zurich, Ill., shares the award this week with Trish Juline of Villanova. 
Ratay averaged 24.0 points and 7.0 rebounrls in Notre Dame's 2-0 week as the Irish posted wins over Pittsburgh and St. John's. She was 11­of-l 7 from three-point range in the two games, shooting 64. 7 percent, and had a 57.1 percent overall shooting percent, going 16-27. 
Hatay, who has scored 20-plus points five times this season and led the Irish in scoring on 10 occasions, recorded her first career double-dou­ble as she scored 28 points (her second high­est point total of the sea­son) and grabbed a per­sonal best 12 rebounds against St. John's. 
Against Pittsburgh, she scored 20 points in the victory. 
Overall, Notre Dame is 21-2 and 12-0 in the Big East. 
The Irish own the nation's longest winning 
streak  having  won  a Alicia Ratay defends a shot in Notre Dame's win over BC. 
record  17  straight  Ratay led the Irish in wins over Pitt and St. John's last week.  
games.  


LIZ LANG/The Observer 
Ready to Quit? 
Think about this: 
1. 
Why do I want to quit? 

2. 
What method will I use? 

3. 
How do I stay tobacco free? 


II vou want to stop using tobacco products, help is availab~e. 
For more information, please contact Alcohol and Drug Education 311 Lafortune phone 631-7970 e-mail ND.aldrug.1@nd.e4u 

Wednesday, February 16, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
TRACK 
Belles break seven school records 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
\Nhilo trying to "take it easy," tlHl Saint Mary's indoor track t!lam managed to break school records routinely. 
The Belles competed in two meets so far and have broken seven records for indoor track and lield. 
"We started a little earlier with our interval work u.nd our field work," head coach Larry Szczcchowski said. "It's really paid off." 
Saint Mary's typically uses the indoor season as a way to pre­pare for the outdoor season, which begins in March. It also gives the team an opportunity to evalualfl where il stands compet­itively. 
In its first meet at Lewis University on Feb. 5, the team finished seventh out of 10 teams. Although they brought a sparse team to the meet, four records were shattered. 
Sophomore Erica Burkett broke the record in the 200-m hurdles with a time of 32.63 seconds. She also look the indoor triple jump record with a jump of 33-feet, 
6.5 inrhes. 
Freshman Lauren Brown set a new record in the shot-put and sophomore Kara Harms in the 20-pound weight throw. 
"The women are having fun and improving on what they are doing," Szczcchowski said. "They can see themselves getting bet­ter." 
The Belles competed al the 
University of Chicago on Saturday against top Division Ill teams, including Ohio Northern Unh,ersity. North Central College and Wisconsin Whit.ewatfff. 
Although no team scores were recorded, more records were set. Burkett set the record for the 5.5­metcr hurdles, Brown reset her shot-put record, and Harms set a new mark in the 20-pound throw. 
The Helles travel to llunington College next Saturday for their last indoor meet. The outdoor season begins on March 25 at Goshen College and MIAA Conference cornpetition begins on April 1 at Hope College. 
"When [indoor season] is over, we'll seriously get back to work," Szczechowski said. "We'll have more than a month to prepare." 

IGot Sports? Call 1-4543 
J 


__., .. 1. :::..·., •• 
:~r:... , . 
lff?. ~ ­
TRY OUR NEW ITALIAN CHICK'N CRISP FOR ONLY 99¢. 
(LET'S JUST SAY THE EXCHANGE RATE 



....~-.·. -. 
-,_-., .,~1. ··.• 
~-C 
.5,.~.­
Z•I: ,;~--r ~~.:.· 
99¢ 
IS IN YOUR FAVOR.) 
;;J~\U??~hiriti\\~~,,.
·o--.-:·. =-·.: : "/k.·: ·.---.:M:·~•i;.{·.... 
:_:. ·--~ ~-p-· ~-:·~(=:·:~·:::=:\\..·/:\f:·_ 
. . ... .. .. .:. .:'/'.·. 
..
~­
..... 
!• 


THE NEW ITALIAN CHICK'N CRISP AT BURGER KING: 
You don't have to travel far to enjoy a little taste of Italy. Introducing the delicious Italian Chick'n Crisp sandwich at BURGER KING" restaurants Tender. juicy, all-white-meat chicken topped with mozzarella cheese and zesty marinara sauce. Right now just 99¢. 


The Huddle • LaFortune Student Center Price and participation may vary. 
Kessler 
continued from page 24 
kettle black, my friend. 
Yeah. and it must have been the "communication arts" majors who started the chants during the game. Communication arts? I think that's some­thing the football players at Ball State major in. 
Finally, I think calling the pre-game pep rally a "hate rally" is just a little bit of an overreaction. I'm sure the other harm­less signs and comments would never happen at Indiana, Purdue or Duke -esteemed institutions who do no wrong accord­ing to Haugh. Iflrn really wanted to get dirt on those schools' fans I'm pretty sure athletic pub­lic relations directors and sports information direc­tors aren't the people to call. Ten years from now, I don't think Notre Dame sports information direc­tor John Heisler will be very quick to tell reporters how students used to chant "bastard children" at Khalid El­Amin back in 2000. Of course they are going to try to make the program and fans look as clean as possible. And I would never consider a pro­gram with Bobby Knight as a head coach to have a respectable moral stan­dard. 
As far as the people who claim that people chanted ''Does Allah like Bastard children'?" that is too long and therefore pretty much impossible to chant. 
Another letter I received was from a woman who had given up hope on Notre Dame as a whole based on the 20 people who decided to create an offensive chant. She had never been to Notre Dame but apparently has now decided to find a new team to support because of the students' behavior at the game. Never mind the countless students who dedicate themselves to volunteering for pro­grams like ACE, Holy Cross Associates, Appalachia Seminar or Urban Plunge. They don't count. It must be those 20 students who estab­lish the moral fabric of this campus. Nice try, but I'm not going to be that ignorant. I am a Notre Dame student. Don't judge me based on what 20 people do at a school of 10,000 students. I'm not a statistics major. but I think that is .2 percent of the campus. 
It's a shame that pr.o­ple can be so unreason­able. 
The views in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessar­ily those ofThe Observer. 
.. ~·· 
One envfronmtnt. Ont ,;mp/, way to carefor;, , J:' Earth Share 

AmericanHean ~ 
at www.amertcanheart.org or call 
Association.¥ 
1-800-AHA-USA1. 
Fighting HHrt DI,...., and Sttok• 


, I I Ii I I 
•' I 
',II 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 16, 2000 
Baseball 
continued from page 23 
American shortstop Brant Ust to the Detroit Tigers in the '99 draft and senior designated hitter Jeff Wagner. they return starters at every other position. This year Mainieri also can rely on the experience of six seniors. 
"Last year, we really bit the bullet and had five freshmen in our starting lineup," Mainicri said. "By the regional championship, we had freshmen making up most of our everyday lineup. Now ... there's another year ofexperience." 
Despite the wealth of experience, at least one freshman will he in the starting lineup when the Irish take the field in the Service Academies Classic on Feb. 24. 
Freshman outfielder Brian Stavisky. a high school All-AmPrican selected in the 12th round of the '99 draft by the Montreal Expos, looks to set an early impression on opponents from the start of his career. 
"Brian is, quite simply, one of thosB guys that come to college," Mainieri said, "and we're just very fortunate he came to college. I think if he had made it more clear that he would have gone into pro baseball, I think he would have been drafted in the second, third or fourth round." 
Stavisky has already raised eye­brows in tho Big East. Rasehall America's college previews named him conference freshman of the year and the overall conference pliycr with best raw. 
The preseason awards were given with good reason. Over his four-year high school career at Port Allegany, he set school records in batting aver­age. home runs, hits, RBIs, runs and 


Upto 

... 
While high blood pressure may have no symptoms, it does have consequences. Like increasing your risk of heart attack and stroke. That's why you should ask your doctor to check your 
blood pressure and help you control it. Learn more at www.americanheart.org or call 1-800-AHA-USA1. 
American Heart ~ 
Association,.,y-
Flghting Heart Disease and Stroke 
This space provided asa pubfic service. © 1999, American Heart Association

,.. 
Ii 
walks. 
"He's a very powerful guy," Mainicri said. "But not like a lot or power hitters where it's a home run or nothing. He's a very good hitter who c:an reach the opposite field very well. Ho's going to be a real force for our team." 
Another force for the Irish will be Nuss-baum, a local product who worked his way up from walk-on sta­tus with a remarkable junior season. After appearing only 11 games over his freshman and sophomore years, he burst onto the scene with a .314 average in 204 at bats, playing in 59 of61 games. 
"During the course of last year, Matt was right in the middle of every raUy we had," Mainieri said about Nussbaum. "He was always doing something. Those are the kind of players that endear themselves to a coach, and I just kept putting him there, and he keµt doing well. And now, he's capt:tin ofthe team." 
Despite the new responsibility. Nussbaum doesn't feel the burden of additional pressure. 
"We've gofsuch a great balanced lineup among the position players that it's hard to feel pressure," he said. "The other guys probably feel the same way. And lat a] time some­body's down, there'll be eight other guys in tlrn lineup and a bunch on thn heuch ready to pick up the slack for us." 
Heilman will lead the Irish on the mound. The junior was namPd a pre­season first-team All-American and listed as one ol' the top three pro pitching prospects in the nation by Baseball America. Last season. he compiled an 11-2 record with a 3.14 ERA, with three saves and 118 strikeouts over 1.09 innings. 
"Aaron is one of' Lhose guys that clearly will be able to handle the expectalions," Mainiori said. ''Ile's a level headed young man that doesn't really get carried away from himself at all. He's a real competitor when he gets on the mound, and that's where his focus is." 
Slightly overshadowed by Heilman is senior right-hander Scott Cavey, who pitched to a 6-1 record in 11 slarts despite an injury-shortened season. 
"lle's a guy we're really counting on to pitch well," Mainieri said about Cavey. "If he can give us that. I think Heilman and Cavey give us an out­standing 1-2 combination. The key for us is going to be the 3-4-5 pitch­ers and middle relief. I think we've got a lot of guys who are capable of doing well out there, it's a matter of going out there and doing it." 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
for-14 against the Eagles, scoring the final six points of the game to earn the win. The one-point win is not the first tho Wildcats have pulled a major con­ference upset this season. The Wildcats handed H.utgers a 66-65 loss in January, making them a force to bo reckoned with. 
Despite their wins, the Wildcats are stuck in the fifth spot in thP Hig East standings, but are looking to move up with another upset. 
Mc~raw is confident with her squad's ability to play its type of ball game instead of letting the Wildcats set the pace. 
"I think we're playing with a lot of confidence and we certainly expectPd to be at least where we are right now if' not a little bit better off. We've seen tremendous improvPment," said McGraw. "I think we know how good we can play. [Villanova] is just another challenge for us. We're looking to March. We're taking these games as experience and trying to prepare for tho Big East tournament. We want to wiu the regular season so every game is critical for us." 
Notre Dame's matchup with Villanova begins the toughest week of' the season fur the Irish. 
"We've got a big week corning up," said McGraw. "This is the toughest week in' the season for us. We're on the road for two big games." 
After playing the Wildcats, the Irish aro back on the road when they meet Rutgers in New Jersey 
Saturday. 
College credits 
for 
taxpayers. 
1500 
Bone up on tax breaks that ' can help you foot the bills , for higher education. 
The HOPE Credit can cut your federal tax up to S 1500 per undergraduate student per year. Applies only to the first two Years 
' / 
of college or other post­
secondary courses. 
The Lifetime Learning 
Credit can save you up to 
$ 1000 a year in ta_xes for 
graduate, professional or [ 
undergraduate study. You I 
cannot claim both credits i for the same person in the same year. Education IRA. You can 
contribute up to $500 a 
child to this account until the child turns 18 . 
......,-­
You can withdraw funds from many IRA accounts without being charged an early-withdrawal tax, if · you use the funds to pay for qualified expenses of I higher education. 
For full details on how to qualify, see your 1999 tax booklet. Or check the IRS Web site: www.irs.gov 


Wednesday, February 16, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
f1~SiWE Qt\/1$'=. fl.,_ 
E 1.E,.,.t'o..lT Of' 
----.1 li..C.1"VM.LY, :}OE
l~ft.E. "'(l(M: ,-.~o R\6~ 
~101»6 ~ic,T l. -WM, 1'"1\lK\tl6

~'™ ~ MORE J.l.oW<:.t~E 1.1\JES Of •~ "ML Of'-.suffRES<Nfr 
_RR\:.~ 13\JT o~, 


BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 

jASON, SWEETIE,  FIGURES.  
RISE ANO SHINE!_,,  I'Li. SET KAFKA J'USi  
WOOHOO! 010  MADE UP THAT  
I MORPH INTO  WHOLE STORY.  
A HtOEOUS  
CREATURE?!  
::..  I  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Egotistical James Bond 
1 Sou,ids from caper?
pounds 33 Correctly sung 
5 Place for a 34 1989 Literature massage Nobelist1oBit of vocal 35 Nth degree 
fanfare 
36 Zoo barrier 14 Lionel track 
37 They're

layout, maybe 
S-shaped 15 Big house 39 Dermatologist's 16 Pink-slipped concern 
40 Bit of brandy

17 Madly in love 41 Half of Mork's
18 Curly-haired sign-offcomics heroine 42 Central 
19 TV's Warrior opening?
Princess 43 Egotistical 1977 
20 Egotistical pop smash? George Bernard 47 •... _ quit!"Shaw drama? 
48 "Hail, Caesar!" 23 Hot time in Haiti 49 Egotistical 1948 
24 When repeated, Cole Porter a first name in tune? Hollywood 56 Isinglass 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

58 Biology lab stain 59 Painter's 
estimation 60 Nose wrinkler 61 Emmy winner 
Lucci 62 Gung-ho feeling 63 Custom 64 #, to a typesetter 65 "Nana" author 
DOWN 
1 Contemplative sort 2 Dr. Pavlov 3 Webmaster's creation 4 Bulgarian or Croat 5 Person who mouths off 6 A.T.M. button 7 Magnani of ''The 
Rose Tattoo" 8 Beef buy 9 Bar freebies 
1O The Stamp Act, 
e.g. 11 Leap for Lipinski 12 Iniquity site 13 Critic 
Louise Huxtable 21 Hard to hold 22 Are, in Aragon 25 How sardines 
are packed 26 Cousin of a 
giraffe 27 Bottom line 28 Become 
slippery, in a way 29 Churchillian sign 30 ''Toadies!" 


HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Sonny Bono, John McEnroe, Lisa Loring, Andy Taylor, William Katt, Ice-T 
Happy Birthday: You won't have any trouble drumming up interest in your latest idea. Get out and let the world see what you have to offer, and you'll get all the help you need. 1rus is your year to take action. The more you push toward what you want out of life, the easier it will become to attain your goals. Your numbers: 15, 19, 24, 25, 38, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your focus should be on your domestic scene today. You may want to invite friends over or plan a party that will lend itself to meeting new people. 
00 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your positive self-exertion will lead you into moneymaking ventures. Do not hesitate to take on free-lance jobs that will bring you extra cash. 
0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Romantic encounters will be emo­tional and intense. You may meet someone new and interesting while taking care of medical or financial 

Puzzle by D. J. DeChrlstopher 
problems. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22):

31 Gar9on's list 49 Clickable symbol 54 "Hud" Oscar 
Secret affairs are likely. Try not to 

32 Pres. or treas. 50 Make spiffy winner become intimate with co-workers. Your high energy, directed properly, 
33 Prefix with 51 Greek peak 55 Big bash potent . 
can result in profitable ventures. 
56 Shorten, in a 
000

37 Quality of bran 52 Give the Bronx way 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Invest­

muffins cheer 
ment opportunities are best looked at 
57 Witness stand 

38 Bearded 53 Hydro~ 
carefully before you sign on the dot­

antelope look-al!ke oath 
ted line. Take care of matters that 
beam_1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST 
roncem children today. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): Your best efforts will come from putting time and energy into your profes­sional endeavors. Be sure to pay enough attention to your lover, or there will be outbursts. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Your love life will improve if you get out and enjoy the company of friends and ,relatives. Your attitudes concerning relationships appear to be changing. 
00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Travel will bring cultural knowledge that can't be learned in any other way. Your memory will aid you in creative endeavors. Your openness will result in new friendships. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Pleasure trips that will provide you with excitement and adventure 
-
should be considered. Chances of 
new romantic enrounters are likely if 
you socialize. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You can meet potential new mates through work, but be careful not to jeopardize your reputation. Your cre­ative talents will bring added popu­larity and respect. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You can make successful physical alterations to your looks today. Art purchases will grow in value. Don't let colleagues fluster you. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your 
energy should go into secret affairs 
or behind-the-scenes activities at 
work. You can get along well with 
collea&'-'es, accomplishing the most 
through group efforts. 00000 

39 Islands dish 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, caring and want to be involved in every­

41 Dragsters' org. Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
thing that your loved ones do. Never one to sit back, you are full of energy 

42 Did in are available by touch-tone phone: 
and forever doing things that are unusual, interesting and creative. 

44 Miniature racer 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 

45 Raving lunatic Annual subscriptions are available for the 
0 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 

46 Decarlo of ''The best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
Munsters" years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
.. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
~-----~------------------------------------------------------------------­
T 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
---------------------,---­
Making big strides 

.. 
The Saint Mary's indoor track 
and.field team broke seven school records in two February meets. 
page 21

PORTS 
page 24 OBSERVER Wednesday, February 16, 2000 
Fans aren't only ones out of line 
Over the past few days, I have read with interest let­ters, e-mails and culumns that surfaced in regard to Saturday's "bastard chil­

.. dren" · chant at the Conn­eclicul game. I'll be the lirst to admit the chant was wrong from a moral stand­point and mv col­umn that appeared in The Observer on Feb. 14 didn't intend to justify it. It simply stated that Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun needs to stop worrying about chants and foul calls and be more con­cerned with coaching his team. That is what he is paid for. Not to be a Connecticut spokesperson. One of the columns that caught my eye and the atten­tion of students on campus was David Haugh's commen­tary that appeared in Tuesday's South Bend Tribune. Apparently Haugh is so knowledgeable on the topic that he knows when coach Matt Doherty intends to write a letter to the students and what it is going to say. He must have received our faxed copy of it by accident because no letter from Coach D appeared in The Observer on Tuesday as Haugh pre­dicted. And if you read it in today's edition of The Observer. you'll see that he didn't "fire it» over. In fact, it wasn't very fiery at all. My favorite part of Haugh's column was when he went on to say "imagine how many kids under 10 heard (the chant]. Imagine how many parents had to turn to their 
... kids and explain what that horrible, slang word for ille­gitimate child meant." Well Mr. Haugh, now that you just wrote a column that appeared on the cover of the sports section of a "family newspaper" and included the chant verbatim, you exposed it to many more children under 10 than were present at the Joyce Center Saturday. That is the pot calling the 

see KESSLER/page 21 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
ND defends undefeated Big East record 
By KERRY SMITH Assisram Spom EdiLor 
When Muffet rvicGraw thinks about the Villanova Wildcats, one word comes to her mind: dangerous. 
"This game is extremely dangerous because of their style of play," said the I.rish head coach. "We really need to come out and execute and play good defense because they run a lot of grnat offenses." 
A quiet team in the first half of the sea­son, the Wildcats began to show their muscle Saturday when they upset the No. 18 Boston Col!Pge Eagles 60-59 at home to improve their record to 14-8 on the season. With the Big East tournament just around the corner, the Wildcats are looking for a repeat performance against the No. 5 Irish tonight. 
"It's always a struggle playing Villanova," said McGraw. "They play the slow-down game so we've really got to be focused. We're a very impatient team ­we like to run and score 90 points and they'd like to win 59-50." 
The slow-down game is what hurt the Eagles and is just what the Irish want to avoid. 
While McGraw will expect solid perfor­mances from all her players, all eyes will be focused on the matchup between first­year players Alicia Ratay and Trish Juhline. ;:;. 
Both shooting guards, !\iotrd"'1fiame's Ratay and Villanova's Juhline shared the limelight this week, each earning the Big East co-rookie of the week award. 
The honor is Ratay's fifth of the sea..'ion and comes after top performances during Irish wins over Pittsburgh and St. John's last week. Ratay's 20-point outing helped the Irish salvage a win against the Panthers, while her 28 points against St. John's led the team to a 97-54 victory. 
But the 21-2 Irish will need more than Ratay to keep their 17-game winning streak alive. 
Wildcat Brandi Barnes directs a tough inside game. The 6-foot-3 center shot 10­
see IRISH/page 22 


BASEBALL 
Irish benefit from new indoor facilities 
er and cu-captain Aaron By BILL HART Heilman said. "I think hopefully Associate Spores Editor we can use that to our advan­
tage. I think when two weeks 

With snow covering most of roll around, we'll be ready to 
go."

Eck Field, one would hardly think that the Notre 11ame 
In an attempt to prepare the Irish for the season more quick­haseball season is less than two 

ly, a new permanent indoor

weeks away. Some teams. including tup­practice facility was built. The ranked Stanford and Florida facility allows the Irish to prac­State, began their seasons last tice even in inc!Bmcnt weather, 
weekend. The inclement weath­which, as any Irish µlayer will er of northern Indiana, howev­say, is more the norm than the er, prevents the 20th-ranked exception. "This lime of year is always
Irish from getting an early start. 
"It's a long winter being the worst time l'or the Notre couped up inside," junior pitch-Dame baseball program," 
senior co-captain Matt Nussbaum said. "Because we're so ready to get out there and play. With this beautiful new facility, we've got a chance to get some good practice in indoors. But even with a facility like this. after a while you really get itching to gl't out there." 
In addition to multiple batting cages, the far.ility also features regulation clay pitchers mounds. By using clay instead of molded plastic, the pitching staff should be able to adjust more quickly to playing outside. 
"It's been a dream of mine since I vvalkcd onto campus 
five-and-a-half years ago, 
head coach Paul Mainieri said. "Obviously, we feel tremen­dously blessed to have our cur­rent baseball field. Now, to 
have an indoor facility like this just really completes this." 
Under the leadership co-cap­tains Nussbaum, Heilman and second baseman Jeff Perconte, the Irish will attempt to build on their success from last year's 43-18 season. The Irish also set a 13ig East record with 20 con ­ference victories in 1999. 
While the Irish lost All-
see BASEBALL/page 22 

.. •at Villanova Track and Field Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Big Easr Championships vs. Adrian
ar Syracuse

SPORTS w 
s 
Sarur<lay, 3 p.m. 

Friday-SaturdayATA at Bowling Green 
ar Seton Hall 
Friday, 7;35 p.m . 
~ Saturday, 9 p.m. 

GLANCE . M 




