
AnTostal apathy
Cries of protest 
Wednesday

Ever since 1968, Notre Dame has celebrated 
Kosovars protest the detention of 145 ethnic 
AnTostaI, a Gaelic festival o_fSpring, fml, as the
.1lbanians who are facing rerrorism charges 
years go by, studenl enthusiasm dwindles. 
in Serbia. 
APRIL 19,

Scene . page 11
WorldNation . page 5 
2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 125 HTTP:!/OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
COME ALL YE FAITHFUL Panel discusses many options for rape victims By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Senior Sr.,ff~'ri1er 

Virlims of' rapr1 and spxual assault havn several options for reporting crimes and rf)cciving counsrling services, according lo employees of campus and community support agencies. 
Representatives of Notre Dame Security. Student Affairs, the University Counstding Center and South Bond's Sex Offense Servir,es {S.O.S) explained how tlwir organi­zations aid victims after incidents of sexual assault. From moments after an assault to years following an incident. services are available to help victims. professionals par­ticipating in the Sexual Assault Awarrnc>ss Week panel discussion said. 
Victims -both men and women -can choose to report crimes to campus or local police, said Sgt. Pat Cottrell, who has investi­gated sexual assault at Notre Danrn since 1990. The officer first attempts to get gener­al information about the incident and later meets with victims to secure details. some­times days or weeks after an alleged assault. 
CottrPII often visits victims in the hospital to gather physical evidence. This procpss ­
see RAPE/page 4 

SMC deems WRC meeting a success 
By MOLLY McYOY S.mH ."vl.iry's Editor 
Thn <:onstituents from Saint Mary's who attended the Worhr !tights Consortium (WHC) con­vnntion l'elt it 
was success­
"We made really
l"ul and infor­attended. m a tivP and important contacts with The wcek­
arP looking our constituents." c n d 
l'orw,ird lo involved th«' nalional lectttrf'rs univnrsity Betsy Station who spokf' caucus nw,\t­assistant to the president on the con­
"For me, the most valuable part of the weekend. was to get a real sense of where the WRC was and what sort of hclp W<' were going to get in influencing our manufactur­ers," said Betsy Station, an assistant to the presi­dent who 
in g on April 28, 
"I think wn'rn V<'ry happy WP joinrd and am very proud to be in llw bcgiunings," said Sandy Vandenverven, manag­n of" the Saint Mary's BooksturP who atL<rndncl the l'irst ronfl'ren1·r and will br~ atlr•11ding lh(' st•cond. "It felt V!'ry good to b<\ a part or that grouµ." 
This nwld.ing was th\' J'irst lllf'l'ting or all of tlw nwmbPrs or the WIH:. and will be l'ol­lowl'd by St\Vl'ral mor1' this yt\ltr bPl'ore th1' organization gels Uw dPtails of its func­tions worki>d out. 
ditions  of  
swr.atshops  
and  a  dis­ 
cussi.on  or how  the group is  
going  to  be  governed.  

lnilially. the proposal was for rr.presentatives of' thr, r:onsor­tium 's ihrcc consiiluents to govern tho WRC. Three stu­dPnt rcprcsonlatives, threo university reµres<mlatives and six rcpresnntatives from thf' Advisory Council were to c.omprisn the governing board. ThP constitur-rnls had not made a final decision regarding whrthPr or not this 
see WRC/p,1ge 6 
NEWS ANALYSIS 


Stock market rebounds this week 
. ND professors consider last week's drop a 'major correction' 
By ERIN lARUFFA Asistant News Editor 

Accustomed in recent years to record-setting highs in U.S. stock markets. American investors last week watched their stocks lose over $2 trillion. 
Last Wf'ek's overall drop in stock prices represented the worst ever in terms of a broad U.S. market index f'ven when r,ompared to the week of Hlark Friday in 1929, Newsweek reported in its lastest edition. 
"It was a major rorrf'c­tinn," said Scott Malpass. Not.n~ Dame's vicfl prosid1mt for finanre and chief invcst­nwnt officer. "It was a very short bear market." 
After the tremendous loss­es last w1wk. stock markets went up again at the begin­ning of this week. The Dow went up 276.80 points Monday and another 184.91 points Tm,sday. Following a 

similar trend, thP. Nasdaq increased 217.87 points Monday and 254.41 on Tuesday. Other market iudices sur,h as the S&P j()O also increasf'd 
Last week's losses seem to have lowered stor.k pricP.s enough to enticed investors tu buy stork this week, 
"Peop[p who won' r.oura­geous or daring .,, want.Pd to get in on the bargains," said economics professor Martin Wolfson. 
Because money that is not invested does not earn inter­est. monPy peoplP taken out of the stork rnarktit last 
Wflek was not generating more wealth, 
"LargP investors decided over the weekend that thPrn were bargains out there. and they can't just sit on their cash," said rconomic~ professor David Huccio. 
DPspi1.P this week's rernv­cry, it is still signil'ic.ant that the Nasdaq dropp11d ovrr 25 pf1rcPnt last wef•k and thP Dow industrials cxp<iril•nc.Pd its biggest one-day loss nvnr on Friday. 
"IL seems like pnoµIP in LhP stock markf't arr' unsur<' of' where to go with tll!~ 
see STOCKS/page 6 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, April 19, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

No comment 
My mini-cassette recorder and reporting notepad w1Te s11ppose<l to be put to good use Tucsdav. 
In light of the approaching one-year anniver­sary of'the Columbine High School shootings in 
Littleton. Colo., mv editor had assi>{ned me an inves­tigative artidl' ,'xploring the issue or safotv in South Bend public schools. The plan of attack: visit some local schools and interview prin­cipals. security guards. stu­dents and paronts. 
But thanks to some tight­


lipped administrators and a 

Jason McFarley
corporation-wide directive that discouraged them from speaking to the press in ref­
News Copy
erence to Columbine, by 11 
Editor 
a.m., my article was a nu­go. 

One junior liigh principal had admonished me: "You reporters really ought to know beHcr. It's not the right timo to bB talking abuut Littleton." 
At the time, I was more disappointPd that I wouldn't get my story than I was upset by her scolding. I\Jow that I think about it, though. I'm a little tirked. 
I mean, what's with tho media bashing'! Reporters ought to know better'? Better than what? To pursm~ interesting, informaiivf' arti­des about matters that plague contemporary society" 
Given the circumstances, readers likelv have a strong desire -if not a right -to know·the state of local schools. Certainly this is a context in which no news isn't good news. 
After all. as family members of school-age children. aren·t we put more at ease in knowing that our relatives will be secured behind locked doors come April 20? Won't we breathe some­what easier on that terrible anniversary if we are aware of schools' security guards, surveil­lance cameras and other safety precautions? 
The dangnr -and fear and hysteria -lies in not knowing about these lines of defense. And \\hen it comes to leaving families in the dark as to the well being of their children. school admin­istrators are the ones that ought to know better. 
I wonder if those principals saw me cringe each time they justified withholding security information with the excuse that media atten­tion prompts further incidents of school fatali­ties. 
It's more than a little insulting that they think that any article I write would serve to perpetu­ate the violence and hatred that the Littleton massacre represented. As both a student jour­nalist and an individual. I face many ethical questions and am subject to all sorts of moral responsibilities. I like to think that I place the value of human lives somewhere higher on the scale than a byline. 
If I had seen my article as anything other than a means to inform and educate, I would have opted not to be a part of it. Note that my piece was never intended to be a celebration of Columbine but rather a look at how to keep from revisiting it. 
And if now isn't the time to ctn that. when is? Two weeks. two days, two years from now? Or maybe when the two perpetrators and the body count they left have escaped our nation's collec­tive consciousness. 
If that's the case. South Bend schools need to realize that not discussing Littleton doesn't equal forgetting it. Truth is, ''Columbine" and "Littleton" am haunting words that send chills up our spines wlrnther or not they receive news­paper column inches. 
~The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necPsscrrily those of The Obsercer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maurec'n Smirht> Jacqueline Krowder Kare Nageng.ist Graphics Kiflrn Turn er 
Jose Cuellar Sports 
Production 
No:ih Amsradter 

Lauren Berrigan 
Viewpoinc 

Lab Tech Collern Gaughen Ang;ela Campos 
·1 he Ob"'"'cr (USPS 59'J 2-4000) is published Monday througli Friday cxce~n d11ri11g exam and v;1t";.1rion period:,;. The Ob~l'.'"fVt'T i, :t membt"r of rht 'A'.'.,o,:i:Hi"d Pre~i,,. All rcprod11cno11 rights an: rc-.erved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
''Now the proposal  "It is through  "It:,;; my house, and  "/ respect greatly  
is in your hands  programs and  they ·ve got to wipe  what the l!niuersity  
and I encourage you  services offered by  their.feet before they  does in general. Ifeel  
to continue lo  committed  come into my house.  glad to be able to do  
push for it."  professionals and  You've got to talk a  this for Notre Dame."  
minister~· that we wish  little trash."  
Angie Little  to work with gay and  Tom Mendoza  
former SMC student body  lesbian students. "  Matt Doherty  University donor, on his  
vice president, on BOG's  men's basketball coach, on  $35 million donation to the  
request for study days  Joe Cassidy director of Student Activities  dealing with opponents in Bookstore Basketball  newly renamed Mendoza College of Business  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
1,200 arrested during IMF, WB protests in D.C. 
MADISON, Wis. "/felt empowered lo be to end the disruption of' talks Universilv of Wisconsin has between world financial loadnrs,
around so many people who 
always been homo to protostors according to Washington Mayor concerned about many dil'forent were working together for !\ntl1ony Williams. issues. This weekr.nd approximately freedom." Steve Krctzmann. a spoknsman 80 UW students left Wisconsin to f'or tho activist group Mobilization JOll1 over l 0,000 activists in for Global Justice, said tlw organiz­



Andy Lehn
Wc1shington O.C. to protest rluring ers were vPry satisf"ied with th!' the joint meeting of the World Bank University of Wisconsin freshman protests but that the police had used and the Intt1rnational Monetary unnecessary force. Fund. "The [police! have militarizncl our 
UW freshman Andy Lehu was very joyful at times and that people capital. This kinu of' force only among the group of students in D.C. were extremely creative in their strengthens our rnsolvn. Wn will not Lehn said taking part in the protests demonstrations. back down," ho said in a brinfing. was a moving experience. On Munday, protestors attnmptnd l\lany prouistl'rs !'nit the policn 
"I felt empowered to be around so to shut down the meetings by flock­used overly strong tactics, hownver, many people who were working ing to the streets of Washington, but Williams disagreed. together for freedom -for the were halted by barricades of police "Thn police have shown grnat rights of other people. who have oJficers equipped with riot gear. poise and discipline lhrough this been oppressed," Lehn said. "It was Six hundred protesters were episode," Williams told CNN. also kind of scary, because the arrested Monday, som<i peacefully !\l'ter a day of' hnavy rainstorms police were marrbing around in and some not. Police sprayed tear protesters ended their strugglns phalanx. formation." gas once and pepper spray many against tlw police for('(~ by mid­
He added that the protests were times during the day in an attempt afternoon. 
Ivies see boom in application rates 
H!\'.\JOVEll. N.11. 
It has been a very good year li.ir the Ivy L(mgue -appli­cations were up for most schools. and admissions rates were down almost across the board, although Dartmouth remained stuck in llrn middle ol' the pack V\ ith little change from last year. Brown University experienced the biggest increase in applications, up J4 percent from last year. The University of Pennsylvania saw the next­biggest jump in applications flooding into the mailroorn, up over 6 percent from 1999. Harvard and Brown Universities saw their rate of admission drop to an all­time low of 10.9 percent and just over 15 percent n•spec­tively. Penn saw their acceptance rate drop 17 p<•rcent to about 22 percent. Dartmouth was orrn of' three schools ·which saw fmwr applications and onCT of two with slight­ly higher acceptance rates. Dartmouth olforml admission to about 21.4 percent of applicants this year. Thn only two Ivy schools with high<,r rates of accPptance were tlw university of Pennsylvania and Cornell University. with rates of approximati,ly 23 percent and 30 pnrcent respectively. Dean ofAdmissions Kart Furstenberg attrib­uted declines in admittance rates al some of' tlrn other Ivies to higher ratBs of early admission. 
Former gang member joins UMinn frat 
MINNE!\l'OLIS 
Sigma Lambda Beta nrnmlwrs at tlw University ol' Minnesota have accnpted a new charge unlik<' any bril'orn. Tim university's Latino-basnd, multicultural fra­ternity is introducing a 19-year-old l'ornwr gang m<'mber from w11stern Minrrnsota to college and city lifo. On April 
11. a judge ordered fornrnr Latin Kings gang memb<)r Angel llernandez to att(md college instPad of r<'lurning to prison. 1-lernandez had spent 10 months out ol' his initial 30-month snntencn in a Kandiyohi County jail for making terroristic thrnats lo a Willmar storP managPr. In an unusual ruling, district courtjudg(' Donald Spilseth said it was in the best interest of' tlw community. And Sigma fraternitv members, af'tlir initial reservations, an• now enthusiastically involved in tlw process. "Most of us WI\!"() kind of skeptical about it until we actually had a chanr<' to m(wt him," said Jontu<! Austin, a biologiral scimH'l'S junior and Sigma vicn prnsidnnt. "I In's an nntirnly diffot·­cnt character than tlrn mw prnsented by tlw accounts givcrn by the prosecutor." In a memorandum accompany­ing thn scmtencing order. Spilseth reasoned tlw commu­nity will benefit morn by snnding Ilernandez to rnllege at his own expPns<' than to prison at taxpaynrs' expPnsP. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
1 
5 Day South Bend Forecast Accu\Verttherw forecast for daytime cnn<lilions aml high tcmpi.!rntures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 19. 

H L 
1 
Wednesday G, 63 56 , Thursday ~ 63 42 Friday {_f"l\ 57 40 
~ 
.._._ 
..........


Saturday ~ 62 45 
Cl 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM S(ATiONAFIY 
,-,.i,1,1,a; 
® © CGCJDDD i'.) 

High Low Showers Rain l-storms Flurries ~':_W____ le~ Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy I

Sunday ~ 69 49 
V/41 Annc,a/>'Jd Prtn-~ 
~-)"·-·'",.J'··'.,.. 

Atlanta 81 62 Las Vegas 74 55 Portland 64 47 Baltimore 67 53 Memphis 84 65 Sacramento 69 48 Boston 45 43 Milwaukee 48 46 St. Louis 78 62
q_Q,~9.G-Q tj ~ Q 
Chicago 63 56 New York 59 52 Tampa 83 62
Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cfoudy 
Hous1on 84 70 Philadelphia 64 53 Wash DC 69 56
Via Associated Press Grap!m;sNet 

-I 
Wednesday, April 19, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





Saint Mary's Peacelllakers club travels to nation's capital 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Renner and Nagle push for study day 
• Group participates in nonviolent rally against the IMF and World Bank 
BySARAH RYKOWSKJ S.1i11r M.,ry·, New., Edimr 
l\,fornbtHS of' thn PP a1· " m a k<' r.,; c Iu b a l Sa in l Marv's attended tlw contro­vr.1<ial prot,~sl ol' th11 IntPrnational 
MO 11 c l a r Y Citizens from Fund and 
around the
th r. World 
Bank in country gathered \.-Vashin){ton.
D. c. . this for the protest. 
W<Wk<'nd. . at least ··sundav 
30,000 people
we cl rov;. 

parlcipaled
down to D.C. and ,.,.1· 11 t to . the pre-rally th<' ll•gal 


conference
rally." said 
/\1 a u r 1' <' n discussed Cap i 11 o. 
sweatshops and 
pr<·sidPnt of 

environmental
th<' rlu b. "W1' lislP1wd issues to s p 11 a k <' rs and 11rnrdwd around J).(:. l"rom ·11 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
As !'ar ,ts Llrn ,trrPsts and policn crackdown. Capillo said that thn group of' l'ivn from Saint Mary's avoidPd thf' arPa that was raidnd -thn 


By SARAH RYKOWSKI
J£e sprim; menus . . , 
Saint \fary's >lews Editor 
are in £loom al cJor1n s. 
Board of Governanr.e has set out to obtain a
Dine in the true spirit of Notre Dame, while experiencing 
study day for the Saint Mary's student body,
the budding flavors of the season. Springtime at Sorin's brings a 
days that Notre Dame studfml~ already r~eive 
· renewal of our menu as we honor our commitment to bringing you 
before finals. 
t the finest foods available. Visit Sorin's al The Morris Inn, 
"Hegardless of what the day is used for we

·<':'
and embrace the season. 
would need a day to recuprrate before exams." Crissie llenm~r said. 
• 
''~. • 
Student body president. Renner. and vice president :vtichelle Nagle. pn1sented the board's
):,: . ~:~ 
~ MoniI Inn. 
ideas to Marilou Eldred, president of Saint 
~ :r·~'.sorinsnd.com, Rfitrl'ations Recommended• li31-2020 
Mary's, and Linda Timm, vice president for Student Affairs. 
llie



Sweetest:.r·m·.,· 
\, 
1.) Flowers 2.) Honey_"_,,..,--~-­3.) Copies Done Right! 
When you want your pictures sharp and done right the first time, we understand. The Copy Shop in the LaFortune Student Center will make certain that each copy you need is perfect, free from blur or loss of resolution. In fact, we want to make your copies picture perfect, clean, and visible. lf you're still out of focus on copies, we will put things in perspective for you, and make the kind of photocopies you want. Stop in soon and check us out! 
convf'rgt'nco silo. called thr Pf'acomak<'rs organization Mobilization for Global until she attended the confer­Justice. ence. 
"We had a nonviolence "This was a definitr turning trainer that calmed us down," point in the Peacemakers Capillo said. "We heard organization," Newcomb said. rumors about lhe direct 'This has definitely given me action an,as. but we did not a flavor for activism. It was want to get arrested." empowering to sec all those 
Capillo and her group. con­students." sisting or Saint Mary's sP-ninr Newcomb cited tlrn confer­Hocio llodriguez. junior Jami enr.e that ihe Peacemakers Newcomb, sophomore Brooke attended before traveling to WarnP.r, Lrslin Danger and the, protest as a f'ar,tor in their Mario Cuzman. a junior aL prnpanidncss for the event. Purdue and Rodriguez's The r,onfPrenr.e, titled "The boy f'ricn d. · Fightback; also att1rnd­Students, ed the evf'nt "We had a nonviolence Labor, and 
with tho the Struggle
trainer that calmed us 
group l'rom Against the
down. We heard rumors
S a i n t Corporate Mary's. about the direct action Agenda," was 
According given at the
areas. but we did nut 
to Capillo. University of
want to get arrested."
:rn.ooo to Delaware­
40 .000 pi;o­Ncwark, and 
p!P attnnded Maureen Capillo sponsored by t.hP nonvio­the Young
president of Peacemakers 
lrn t rally. Democratic which was Sor.ialists for staged the weekend botwt'en the Washington of April 14. Monument and the White "We had to go to the confer­llousn. enr.e to get lo D.C .. " Newcomb 
"ThnrR wrrf1 col!P-ge stu­said. dc~nts from all over the The conference discussed world." Capillo said. sweatshops, the School of the 
Newcomb. who is active in Americas and environmental the Feminist Collective. issues, among other topics. atlPndcd thP rally but had not Onr.e at the protest in b P. c1 11 a r. ti vf' in th e Washington, the atmosphere 

(C)py SHOP 
Lafortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
Phone 631-COPY 
High Volume Copying Color Copying, Scanning, & Printing Binding / Laminating / Fax Service Newsletters / Reports / Manuals Complete Desktop Publishing Service 
• lFREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY!
SometlungI Quality Copies, Quickly/" 
Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm 



ii~~[!­
Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
Copyrighl 2000 • All Righta Reserved • 4100 
was carnival-like, with people Newr,omb. everywhere, Newcomb said. "This was the major trip for 
"There the semester." w e r e Capillo said. 60,000 "Just exp1Hi­
"People have a Lot of
people encing the there," she 
interest in the events 
rally and how said. "The surrounding the protests. huge the prob­ontirn goal 
It just starts up this lems with the 
was to structurns are
wonderful dialogue. It is
ki>.ep the 
!was informa­

air as amazing how many 
tive. I 

peaceful as 
people agree that there [ThP stu­
possible. 
dents) hadn't

needs to be a change."
You know, realized how itcivil dis-
was all con­

obedienr,e, 
Jami Newcomb 
nected." 

not direct 

junior
action. 
People 
w e r e 
dressed up -it wasn't as 
tense and stressful as it was 
in the dirnct action areas. 
There were a couple thou­
sand anarchists there and 
none of them got violent." 
Newcomb said. 
The members of 
Peacemakers intend to share the knowledge that they have gleaned from last weekend's ievents to the entire student 
body. 
"People have a l.ot of inter­
est in the events surrounding 
the protests," Newcomb said. 
"It just starts up this wonder­
ful dialogue. It is amazing 
how many people agree that 
there needs to be a change. " 
Capillo agreed with 
"If not a study day. maybe the faculty can make the week before finals paper and test­free," Nagle said. "Maybe that day could be usPd for review sessions. I Iopefully we can come out of this with something." 
Henner and Nagle took the proposal, originally constructed by former BOG presidPnt Nancy Midden and vice president Angie Little. to Eldred and Timm to obtain fredback and advice before they send the proposal on to the next step. a presentation before the Faculty Assembly, next year. 
"Dr. Eldred and Dr. Timm are behind us 100 percent," Benner said. "ThP proposal has aln:ady been endorsed by the 1999-2000 BOG." 
Capillo will 
be stepping 

down as the leader of the Peacemakers next year, but she is confident that the conference inspired its members. 
Peacemakers plans to hold a session between Easter vacation and final exam week to share more information with the student body about the club's purpose as a part or Saint Mary's student life. 
"I've asked Maureen to keep me on the list." l1odriguf1z said. " I want to participate as much as I can as an alum­na. 
The group also plans to remain active in the cam­paign against the IMF and World Bank. and in other issues. 
In other BOG news: 
. 
All rlubs. current and prospective, must attend meetings for allotments on April 25-26. in 303 Haggar, in order to bP recognized for the 2000-2001 school war. 

. 
Spring Day on c·ampus for prospPctive students is Sunday, April 30. Board of Governancr has set up a panel of currf'nt studPnls to answer prospective studnnts' questions at 10:30 a.m. in Carroll Auditorium. 

. 
SMC Tosta! is Thursdav. April 27. Activities include ·a climbing wall on tlrn library grer.n, a picnic with carica­turists and other games, canoe racr.s and a "driw-in" shew.fog of "Sixth Sense." as well as other r.vening <>nter­tai n mf' n t. "Everything is completdy f'rnn f'XCC'pt thn t­shirts," said Allison WPbb. SAB coordinator. 




page 4 ne Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April I9, 2000 

Rape 
continued from page l 
in which samples of semnn and other bodilv fluids are taken from victir{1s -can be as violating as the crime, r.xplaincd Michelle Visnosky. an SOS advocate and Notre Dam<i senior. 
"H's like going to exµeri­Pn('(' the violation again ­having to go through th!' rape kit and having to 
go through 

"It's like going to 
other reasons.
t h r 

experience the lliolation "But just
details" 
because a

Visnosky again -having to go 
prosecutor
s a i d 

through the rape kit and 
docsn 't accept
"Jlpporting 

hacing to go through the a case, it
is an 
doosn 't mi;an a

astronomi­details. Reporting is an 
crimP didn't

cal stt>p astronomiral step for the 
occur, said
for Lho vic­

victim . ., Wendy ~ettlP..
tim. and it 
a staff psy­
isn't dorH• 
chologist ,Lt

h a t Michelle Visnosky 
thr> l1nivnrsity
oft11n.,. 

SOS advocate 
Counseling
In fact, a 
Vi Cl i l1l, even one who goes to a hospital for trnatmPnl after being raped, is not required to report the crimr to local or campus offi­cials. Sometimes. student vic­tims fear they'll be punished l'or having drunk unlawfully or brokt-n parietals on the night or the sexual assault. 
"Ir the virtim has been con­s um ing alcohol that night. they're rnnrerned about that because it's a violation of' Indiana law," Cottrell said. "Well. l can tell vou the vic­tim will not be charged with that violation on campus. I can also tell vou that the county prosec~tor will not prosecute a minor in con­sumption because she's reporting a s11xual assault." 
Student victims who choose lo report rape or sexual assault can i'ile inr.ident reports with local police agencies or Student Affairs. Hapes that occur on campus are reported to Notre Dame Seruritv/Police or to Student Affairs and arr rPcorded. without using victims' names, each year in du Lac: in 1998, the most recent year for which statistics are available, two forcible rapes we rP. reported. 
Off-campus incidents arc handled by a local city department -usually South Bend or Mishawaka -buL can be reportr:d to Notrri Dame police if vir,tims pret'er. 
If victims choose to press l'harges legally, reports given to police agencies are pre­sented. typically, to the St. Josrph County pros('cutor. 
Ilut Cottrell could recall four timPs when students decided to press criminal charges but past county pros­<'cutnrs clwse not to pursue the case because Lhey lacked sufficient evi­dcnce, or for 
Center. 
Notre DamP 
and Saint Mary's students also havP. the option of a Student /\f'f'airs h (1 a r in g . a v ic ti m -d r iv<-In prrwess facilitatPd by a three­person panrd which could rf'sult in expulsion ol' a con­victed assaulter. 
The panel gathers reports of physical evidr.nce, ii' them is any, and the victim's writ­ten recollection of the inci­denl. Panelists interview the victim and charged student in the same room during the hearing. and victim's learn the !'ate of the accused. 
Assaulters found guilty are almost always dismissed from the University, Student /\!'fairs representatives Jean Johnson said. 
Regardless of wheth(-,r they press charges, however, vic­lims somr.times suffer from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and often benefit from counseling, even years after being assaulted, Settle rxplained. -. 
"Counseling really is a process," shn said. "It's oftrn a process of disbelit>f at f'irsl. They may not be dealing with all the effects of thr. trauma. of tho abuse. They are going through the whole roller coaster of feelings, from 'I fr.el numb' or 'I jusl want to 

forget this happen11d lo me to real intrusive memorir-s of' what happened." 
Malo students who have brrn ,·ictimizHd by nrnn or women especially benefit, bt>causc society tends to ignore male sexual abuse, she said. Men questioning their nwn sflxual behavior also benefit from counseling, Settle said, explaining that in a 1994 Notre Dam(1 study, 
22.2 percent ol' men admitted having pcrpl'lriitcd somn 
degreo of' sexual forct1, 
"We providn counseling for mnn q ueslioning their own snxualitv," shn said. '"!lave I f'orcrd sexual contact"' Wo deal with that." 
For students who know friends who have been sexu­ally assaulted, Settle recom­mended ker1ping an open, accepling altitude. She adVi S(l d Vi Ct imS' f'ri(\ 11 dS t 0 Sl'ek counseling Lh!'mselvHs becaus~1 "you're going to be overwhelmed by your own 

l'e11lings of anger and 1'1\ar." 
Citing thP latest Indiana Coalition f'or Sexual Assault statistics, Visnosky said one in thnrn women and onn in five men will be raped in his or her lifetinw. ShP stressed that 90 percent of' victims know their attackers and that even if victims choosP not to pursun IP-gal ar:lion. local and campus s1irvicns arc availablP to servn tlw widn varinty of' n11nds ol' victims and tlrnir frinnds. 



Mishawaka 
4810 Grape Road 
219.27 !. !330 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Over 30 Sites Open! 
" Buffalo, New York -(Local Student) ~ Columbus, Georgia -Small home for homeless men -, Dallas, Texas -Brady Center for Kids -(male) .i, Delawai:e • Sojourner's Place (live on site) " Dubuque, Iowa • Camp for kids with physical problems " Ft. Wayne, Indiana -Matthew 25/Clinic for low income " Ft. Worth, Texas • Habitat for Hwnanity/kids " Grand Rapids, MI • Clinic for Migrant Workers (Spanish) ~ Harrisburg, PA -Interfaith Family Shelter ~ Houston, Texas -Catholic Charities ~ Kansas City, Kansas -Catholic Worker House (male) 
Don Bosco Center -variety ~ Kokomo, Indiana-Home for women (female) ~ Marion, Indiana -Family Services/Emergency Shelter ~ Poughkeepsie, NY -Good Counsel Home for pregnant teens IJ LaPorte, Indiana • Sharing Meadows/Disabilities camp for adults IJ Mwlcogon, MI-Every Women's Place/Young teen program e Nashville, TN • Oasis Center for troubled teens -& N orthcrn Michigan • Fr, Fred Foundatioo/Em;rgc~ ,crvices " Jacksonville, Florida -L' A.rche Home IJ Rochester, New York:-Home/clinic for pregnant 1"ns ()' Peoria, Illinois -(local) Guardian Angel Home (kids) -& Springfield, Massachusetts • Food Bank I-' San Diego, California -Disabilities/Job Training ~ San Fl:llllcisco, California -Andre House (male) (t South Dakota -Small sheltcrs/rcseivation camp -l!t Norwalk, Connecticut •Transitional shelter ~ Ventura, California -Emergency Services 
"We do Mondays like no place el.sell 
Enjoy a double order of fajitas (enoueh for fwo) for only bol Offer valid every Monday 11.AM-dose. 

"Spend Wednesda~wifh ±he ones you love." Enjoy .1 W Bie Mouth Bureera! Olditmer.• Bacon Bw-9er. Band1+0 Veee+artan Bw-eer. Hwdu-oom-Swtius Burs-r. Htakory 8ur&e,r. Turkey Bureer Daluxe. Ground Peppercorn Burau. 
Offer valid every Wednesday 11.AM-dose. 


University of Notre Dame 
• 
Three elective Theo Credits 

• 
Eight Weeks, $1700 Scholarship 

•
Additional $1,181 in Americorps Award available 


CALL THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS WITH QUESTION AT 631-7867 




orld 



Wednesday, April 19, 2000 COMPILED FH0M THE OBSFHVEH WIim SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Digging begins on suspected 
mass grave site 
(;OSPIC, Croalia 

lnv('sligators for lh(• [_; N. "var crin]('s tri­bunal bPgan digging Ttwsday at a suspr.,tPd mass g-rav1· sitP 011 tlH' outskirts of Gospic. ~Parrhing for bodi,•s 111' f'lhnic· SPrbs allPgPdly ki.ll1•d during thP I')') I St>rbo-Croat 'vV.n. H1•LwP1•n /,0 and Iin 1wopl" -mostly SPrbs. but also sorn(' C:roals clisapp<•arcd in latr. 
I'>'J 1 and ,\1'rr' prt•sunw<l killt>d and buril'd rwar Cospk. (10 mill's soulhwl'st ol' lhn rapi­lal. Zagreb. Tlw digg-ing is "l'ocusc\d on disrov­Pri ng a susp<'t'lt>d mass grave and on Pxh111wtti11n of' bodiP<.; that mav bP found" in tlw villagr• of Obrmlovir Varos: which is near Cnspil'. Croatia's gowrnnwnt said in a statn­nwnt. Crnalia's minority s,,rbs took up arms in I <JIJ I lo opposP Croatia·s ind(•pnncknct' from tlw rornwr Yugoslavia. lluman rights groups lwlil'V<' that Croats killl'd Serb civilians rn c;llspil' in l'l'Vr•ng.-l'or tlw dnaths of lhl'ir Pthni<· kin. 
Flooding of Tisza river causes state of emergency 
BUl>t\l'FST. Ilungary 

Swollt•n by W<'<'ks of' rain. llungary's sec­ond-largPsl rivPr thrPal<'lll'd 1·omnn111iti11s along its banks Tu<·sday and prompted authorili<'S lo Pva1·u;tl1• parts ol' (>8 towns and villagPs. l\forr• than 2:{.000 pPoplt•. including 2J,OO soldil•rs. \\orkPd on rr•inl'orring dikPs at 232 Sl'ltlt'm<'nls on or 1war tlw Tisza Hiv<'r. offidals said. ThirlPl'n military hl'lirnpters l'PrriPd sandbags to crilical rt•gions. whilP army troops usPd amphibious vPhides to assist in rt•srul' and c•vacuation C'fforts. Thi' parlial PVanmtions ol' (18 othc•r towns and vil­lagPs 011 or nPar thP rivPr Wf'rt' ordPrl'd Tu!'sday as ttw• gowrnnwnt dt•<·larrd a stat!' of 1•nwrg1•111·y along tlw lo\\!'r Tisza Hiver. Tlw watPr lPVPI of' tlw Tisza on Tu!'sday morn i n g at th I' 111 aj o r riv n r ban k r ity of' Szolnok. :iO miks soutlwast of' Budapest. was :H ft'Pt. 'J inrlws. well ovPr doublt\ tlw normal lrwl'I !'or ,\pril. and rising. 
Parents file law suit against Columbine sheriff 
COLDEN. Colo. 

Tlw parnnts of' a slain Columbinn l!igh Srhool studPnt sued tlw sheriff and scvPral d1'pulit'S Tu!'sday. al!Pging they ignored warnings about th1' tPcn-agc killnrs that could havP pr<wl'nlnd tlw massacre. Mirhacl and Vonda Sho!1ls' lavvsuit was th!' first or several PxpcctPd to be filnd by Thursday. Nearly two dDzen notices of' int11nt to sue the sheriff's offi1·1; w1•n• f'i!(;d in OrtobPr. most involving two allngations: that .Jpfforson County ShPriff .John Ston1;'s deputies failed to take action wlwn told of thrPats one of thn gunmen made in March 1998 and that authorities mishan­dkd tlwir rPspons1i Lo tht' atlack. "The shcr­il'f's dPparlmcnt. ShPriff StonP. Lt. [Terry! Manwaring and tlw dl'puty sheriffs stood by w hi I<' in no cnnt r hi Id ren wf' rn shot." th n Slrods11s· lawsuit allt!gPs. 
14mf1ftlttt@MUII
Dow -~~~•j~: 
}ONES .:s 3q 
'li:tsd:tq:
+184.91 
3793.:,7 ,~5-1-l 1 
~,s1: 
(,JUI 14.60 
S&I' 500: Composite I-W.61 
,·01.m,·:
10767.42 I, I 09.469,952 
•.JU.17 


VOLUME LEADERS 

CONflt#X CJSCO S'tSU:Ns Cst'!.l ~•.u +l.,HOO 61,l5 1Nl'!Ll".'OHP rmc +•.n •5.olloo 1n.ttt1 
¦lOICSOff C()IP )ISFT .,.1., ..,.us1ii H.H OJUt.C'L& CORI' ORC'L •5.54 +L121S 711.9'. 
tG.SNt.Q UO SfWI: QQO .,.,s 1't,nsu n:.oo llKI.i.COM:Pt!J'D. urt.i. +J.!t!J t-l.7500 SO.SO Sl.1tf )(JC'IIOSYS"TDI SfJHW +8.47 .-,.lBSO 91.o& Jtllill lJlffPIIAH JDa:O -tl,0:l -l,9-tOO< H,H: Q1,0&AL C'!l:OS!UfO: ~Ll +7.lil . l..1.150 llLOO ffeI WOJ!LD('otl IN wtOM ,:L!O +1.1'1Se-U.'J'i 
YUGOSLAVIA 


tenced to up to 15 years in jail. streets of Djakovica," said Natasa 
Associated Press 

Verdicts and sentencing were expect­Kandic. the head of the Belgrade Fund 
NIS 

ed later this week. for Humanitarian Law, at the trial.
In one of the largest mass trials ever 

All the accused were arrested in the "This is a political trial." 
in Serbia. 145 ethnic Albanians faced 

Kosovo town of Djakovica. about 30 She said that all the accused lived in 
terrorism charges Tuesday for 

miles southwest of Pristina. during three neighboring streets in Djakovica. 
allegedly fighting Serb forr,es in 

NATO air strikes a year ago. and that they were arrested at ran­
Kosovo last year. 

When NATO took control of Kosovo dom during a police sweep of the
The ar.cused, all men, appeared in a 

in June, Yugoslav President Slobodan area.
courtroom in Nis, where the trial was 

Milosevic's withdrawing forces trans­Scores have since been released but
moved to ber,ause no courtroom was 

ferred more than 2,000 ethnic others, mostly prominent figures, have
large enough to hold them in the near­Albanians charged with terrorism been sentenced to up to 15 years in
by town of Leskovac, the original venue. from Kosovo to prisons elsewhere in prison. The U.N. mission in Kosovo The ethnic Albanian defendants are Serbia. estimates that about 1,500 Kosovo charged with "terrorist" actions The trial in Nis. drew criticism from Albanians remain in Serbian jails. against Serbian security troops sta­human rights groups. who assert the Strict security measures inside and tioned al the time in Kosovo. including accused were arrested at random. around the Nis court during the open­the killing of three Serb policemen and "These Albanians are innocent civil­ing proceedings Tuesday included the wounding of at least seven. ians who were not involved in armed dozens of armed policemen deployed If found guilty. they could be sen-actions and were kidnapped on the in front of the building. 
Hastert backs trade relations with China 
Dick Gephardt. month on a measure to ing is intense on China
Associated Press 

"Once again. the House grant permanent normal tradr.. While divisions exist WASIIINGTON 
minority leader has chusen trade relations with China. in both parties, thn split is House Speaker Dennis partisan politics over bipar­rather than continue the more pronounced amongHastert plndged Tuesday tisan progress," Hastert. H­current system of having Democrats. who are strug­
that the 11epublican-con­

I II.. said in a jab at Congress vote on the issue gling to gain a Ilouse trolled !louse, "working 
Gephardt, expected to once a year. majority in this fall's r.le1'.­with the 
:announce opposition to the Democratic officials say tions. presi­
/ legislation Wednesday in a Gephardt will declare in his Organized labor is 11ght­de 11 t." 1 speech at St. Louis. speech that safeguards in ing the trade bill. fearing it , will pass 
, . Majority Leader Dick the legislation to protect will cost jobs. Business legisla­
· : Armey, R-Texas. seconded human rights and address groups. cager to op0n an tion for 
Jlastert's criticism of othl'r concerns in China enormous new mark1~t. are normal Gephardt, "The would-be aren't strong enough to jus­strongly for it. That sets up L r a d e · speaker of the Ilouse is too tify surrendering the levr.r­a potentially dangerous votn 
relations 

tied to big labor and trial age that accompanies annu­for Democratic lawmakers w i t h Hastert lawyers to recognize the al reviews. from swing districts. who Chin a needs of the new economy," As comments from might n1ly on support from 
despite the opposition of the 

Armey said. Hastert and Armey suggr,st­Lim AFL-CIO to win diffi­Demucratic leader, Rep. 
A vote is expected next ed. the political maneuver-cult re-election campaigns. 

-------, 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 19, 2000 



WRC 
continued from page 1 
is thr approp riatc board to govern the consortium. It will be discussed further at later meetings of thP. WRC. 
The contacts and informa­tion provided at the weekend were invaluable for the Saint '.\lfary's, the College represen­tatives said. 
"Wr made rPally important contacts with our con­stituents," said Station. "Indiana sdrnols, and othrr women's liberal arts colleges arr doing tht> samP things we're trying to do. and it was very important to make con­tacts with thrm." 
The first meeting was only open to members of the WHC, but thr. university raur.us on April 28 will be open to schools outside of the WRC who are looking for informa­tion on the group. Vanderwcrven will be the College's representative to this meeting. 
ent investors. Huccio said. "It all di>pends on the size
Stocks 
of their portfolios. Somo peo­
continued from page 1 ple lost money on paper." he 
said. money," Wolfson said. "It's For example, Lho value of indicative of ... the g1rnr.ral Bill Gato's portfolio dropped apprehension most serious from $R9 billion to $56 bil­investors have." lion. 
Indicative of investors' The losses big invPstors uncertainty is the fact. that suffered last week will most despite the overall increase likely cause a decrease in the in stock markets on Mondav, purchases of luxury goods, more stocks lost money tha:'n such as 1.hird or four1.h cars, those that Huccio said. made money, T h r
"ft sa large drop. but ...
according to impact of' H LI C C i O . the average investor who '.s stock losses However, that is morn sig­
been in the market is still 
trend was not n i!'i cant to
ahead.,.
repeated nn s ma 1. I er Tuesday. investors "We know Martin Wolfson than it is to 
that investors peop!P such
economics professor 
are nervous." Hur:cio said. adding that in\'estors will keep their money in stocks as long as they expect prir.es to rise. Once large investors begin lo sell their stock. other large investors tend to follow suit, which is what occurred last week. 
"Sellers follow it down and buyers fo.llow it up," he said. 
Friday morning's announcement of the most recent Consumer Price Index (CPI\, which had increased more than analysts cxpertr.d. may have contributed to loss­es at the end of the week. The CPI announcement along with the well-known f'act that the Federal ll.escrve (Fedl is likely lo raise interest rates again caused uneasy investors to sell stock. Wolfson said. 
Despite other factors. the fear that stock prices are too high also affected investors. 
"The underlying problem is that the markets have gone up so fast that many people think thev·rn overvalued," Wolfson said. 
Technology stocks were especially overvalued and "movPd too high too quickly," according to Malpass. Many

technology stocks -espcdal-~----'----------------------'---------------~ 
ly those belonging to compa­nies that have not yet earned a prof'il -may be overvalued, he said. 
"Technology stocks arc the ones primarily in the Nasdaq marht." Wolfson said. "All the tech stocks !wnel getting hit on Friday,.. 
The effects of the general decline in stock prices last week are different for differ-
as  Gates  
with  large  
portfolios.  

"For a small investor, it took a big toll." Bur.cio said. 
NPvorthclcss, brcauso tho overall stock market has bcPn strong for so long. most investors who hav11 been in the market for a while have a positivfl net gain. Wolfson said. 
"It's a large drop but ... Urn average investor who's be(m in the market is still ahead." Wolt'son said. 
In fact, on Friday the Nasdaq was worth about what it was worth last NovPmber. 
"Fundamentally. then1's nothing bad in tlrn t'conomy," Malpass said, explaining that inl'lation and interest raU~s am relative low whil11 eco­nomic growth and 1·orporatr earnings am strong. 
Because of' the currently solid rconomy. Malpass said he does noL foresee a market crash. 
"Long-term fundamentals are going Lo drive the mar-is htiading those "ups

for a cor­"Fundamentally, there's 
and downs,"rection or 

nothing bad in the it is impor­
crash, said tant !'or
economy."
Wolfson. 
investors to"I think 
hav<' diversi­
it's too 

Scott Malpass l'i1!d portl'o[ios
early to 

Notre Dame's chief including U.S.
safely con-

investment officer and intPrna­
cl udc that 
tional stocks.
the correc­as well astion is 
other lypes of investrn(111ts

ovt)r," Wnll'son said. "It such as bonds, Malpass said.
makes you a little more 
In order to keep innation ­apprehensive," and tlrn economy in gennral ­

Investors should Pxpcct 
in rlrnrk. th<' Fnd will raise

continued volatility in the markets, Ruccio said. 
interest rates a few limes throughout th11 rest of tho

On the other hand. Malpass year, according to Malpass.
said he believes stocks will Th() Fnd has already raised
contintH' to do wnll over th!' ratl's sovcral limns this ynar.
next ten years, even if prnr-
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Featuring the best theological & philosophical works. 
Newly revised second edition! 
Catechism of the Catholic Church 


This new edition of the catechism is taken from the defini­tive Latin text and incorporates about 100 modifications made since 1992. More than 100 pages longer than the original, with an expanded index and a new glossary of terms. 61/4 X 91;2, 928 pages. 
Softcover: regularly $14.95, now only $11.95 Hardcover: regularly $24.95, now only $19.95 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE• 234-0003 • cmeehan@com-ctr.com 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown So. Bend Open 10-5 Mon/Wed/Fri, and 11-6 Tues/Thurs 
to Ireland* 

ket," despitP short-term events like that of last week. Malpass said. "The ru nda­mcntals of the economy are as good as they·vo been in d (~cad cs." 
llowever. it i:; possible that the market 
Register at lrelandByNET.com to win an Irish Holiday for Two! Visit lrelandByNET.com today to enter for a exciting trip for two to Dublin. including airfare and hotel accommodations for 4 nights at one of Dublin's finest hotels. There's a new trip to win every month!* 
Hurry and enter -the first trip will be given away in June 2000! 
lrelandByNET.com Is all things Irish with news. sports. weather. history. culture. live chat. discussions a forums and tourist information. Visit us today! 
Enter now at www.IrelandByNET.com. 
kets may not repeat thn suc­cPss limy haV(\ had over the past 10 years. 
"The last 10 years have been extraordinarv." Malpass said. "It will havo.its ups and downs." 
Because of' 


Wednesday, April l 9, 2000 
Study: Nurses guide young IDothers 
A:~:sociau:d Press 
MEMl'f !IS. Tnm. 

Young. low-incomf' motlwrs havP 1'1•w<'r 1:hildr11n and less dPpPnclPnrl' 011 w1df"arl' if' mirsPs n•gularly 1·ou11s1!l Llwm during pn·gnanry and all11r childbirth, a sllldy said Ttwsday. 
Thi' study. publishPd in Tlw .Journal of' tlw Anwrican MNlical Association. said womnn who Look part in a program of intnns11 nurs" <·ounsnling had 14 percent 
1'11w11r prPg­nanriPs ov<'r a livn-ynar 1wri­orl than did a C'ontrol group ol' other moth-l'l'S. 
Tlw ho1111i visits lwl1wd l1iach th<' f"irsl-liml' motlwrs how to bPtt11r t:lll"I' !'or llwir rhil­
dnm and also how to make pnr­
producing lrnalthinr babies and

sonal rhoices that improvml tlwir 
more sctr-sufficicnt mothers,

livns. said llarriPt Kitzman, a 
Kitzman said.

nursing prol'cssor at th11 
The JJ\MA article rcportnd on a

L;nirnrsity or Hoclrnst1•r. 
follow-up of' program parlicipants

"Tlw inv11stm1•nt that sot:iPty 
lhrnc years arter the borne visits 

nm makP at this l'Titical stagP in a 
nndnd. 

woman's lif'P pays o!T ov11r tho 
lfosides having fewer children.

long run in many ways," Kitzman 
tlw motlrnrs also had longnr inter­

said. 
vals lrntwepn their first and sec­

Tim study f"ocusPd on 1.1 :1 1) 
ond childrnn, :-rn months vorsm 

young wonwn. most of' whom 
26 months. lhan did women in

worP unmarri<·d. unemployed 
tlrn control group.

high si'.1100! dropouts in inrn~r-t:ity 
Ilaving babies loo dosP togPth

Mnmphis. 
I'!' is medicallv unwisP f'or bot~ 

Tlw wonwn. most of' tlwm tP1m­
l'hildren and m'othcrs. 


The Women ·s Resource Center is pleased to honor Anne Geggie for her out­standing contribution to the community and the inspiration with which she enhances so many lives. Here is her story: 

I crmluated from \Veskvan Univ1:rsi1, in 1994. after four years of run and ii.ird work. Wcslcvan is the small. ci.l-ed. liberal arts (and liberal in gcn­cral) school 11car I lartford. Conn.: it"s not the girls scho{Jls in Massachusetts where Barbara Bush went (th,it's Wdlcslcv). ~After graduation I moved to New York Citv and worked mostlv in social services. but I had alwavs want­ed to go back io 11.raduatc school. 'The choice finally came down to ci' school in southern Caliti:irnia and Notre Darm:. 
Pcoph: aiwavs ask me wlw I chose Notre Dame. l tell them h\o reasons: thc Economics cleparlment w·as what I was looking for (some standard classed. but mom to explore non-traditional issues like labor and housing) and J"d he close to home acain (a small town near Lansing. Mich.) And~then I tell them that hcing hm: 1s harder and easier than I had imagined. For the most part. the daily grind of hcing u craduate student is what my day con­sists of: classes and h:ing a teacl1ing\1ssislant add up to many hours a week. But a lier I\I been at ND a semcst1:r. I rs:alized I had to do something else. I knc\1 I was gay hdore I got here. I just thought it would he easit:r. 'So at the hccinnine. nr last spring semester. I got involved with OUTreachND. the unrceogriized bis1:xual. leshian and gav student group. I wanted lo med other gay and lesbian students -I needed to fed~a part of a community. for the past vcar. I've been one of the co-chairs of the group. 
I got involved h1:cause I thought I could help the gay and lesbian commu­nity flere artkulate its needs and goals -keeping up our peer-run support mcdings and continuing lo educate our peers tlirougb dorm talks as two hig examples. Rut I think I ve gotten at least as much lrom the group as I gave. Ever,· week. I meet people who worrv that thev will isolate themselves hv co1111ng out to friends and l~mily. often times fiecause they are Catholic. ·1 came to Notre Dame from places where se~ualitv dictn·t matter. Unl'ortunatcly. at Notre Dame we have had to justifv our feelings of love for another person hccause thcy are or I.he same gender'. I have gained an appre­ciation ol'the aw..: and rcsponsihilitv or!ovc because of this light. But more limn that I have gained an appreciation for tho.: supron from and sense of belonging In a communitv. I am proud In say that have hecn a part of fos­tering that com mun it, at Notre Dame through my work for OU I n:achND. 
It 1s an honor to h:tvc hccn nominated for this award. Thank you. 
women who are
"We 're trying to 
in poverty and understand the kinds of have limited 
things that help resources," Kitzman said.
women take control of 
Th,~ home vis­their lives. " its cost about $2,800 a year per family, but
Harriet Kitzman 
the study indi-rn
nursing professor 
rates they will 
save mont1y in 
the long run by 
ag11rs. wcrn split into two groups. Orw rnc11ived standard nrndical cam whiln the other also got reg­ular horn<' visits from nurses dur­ing pregnancy and for two years allcr birth. 
In addition to nrndiral instruc­tion, visiting nursns also talkP.d with llw women about pregnancy planning, Pducation. family rnla­tionshi ps and preparing for 11mployrrrnnt. · 
''We 're trying to understand the kinds of things that htilp women 
take control of 
their lives, 
Holy Cross College is a small, close-knit, two-year 
HOLY
liberal arts college where you'll get the persona! 
attention you need for success.W:e'!I challenge you, 
CROSS 
too ... with an expanded curriculum that includes 

*
a new Associate ofArts in Business Administration COLLEGE degree. And wait till you discover our campus life. 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
We've spruced up the landscaping, added new sports and recreation facilities and created more on-campus P.O. Box 308 housing. Just recently, we broke ground on a new Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 student apartment complex. Looking for the path to 219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 a brighter future? It starts right here at Holy Cross. www.hcc-nd.edu 
Anne Geggie -Nominated by Quincy Starnes and Brandon 
Fogel 

"I would like to nominate Anne Geggie for re,cognition. Anne was one of the Co-chairs for OUTreachND this year. Anne has done phenomenal work for OUTreach and the gay community at large. She is there for sup­port as well as activism, and knows when it is right to do both. On a per­sonal note, Anne has always been there for me. She is a giving and car­ing individual and always makes time to talk to me no matter what her schedule. Anne goes above and beyond the call of duty because she feels that she has to. Sometimes that puts a big strain, but I have never seen it get Anne down. She is a powerful and strong woman" -2UUU'Af 
$/amuu 

"As co-chair of OUTreachND, Notre Dame's unofficial gay and lesbian support club, Anne has been a tremendous asset to the university's effort to promote diversity and multi-culturalism among the student body. Under her care, the active membership in the group has doubled, which is equiv­alent to saying that the population of students no longer living in closets has doubled ... to help one person make this transition is wonderful, but to help 20 -30 people do it is simply remarkable .... after her example, I see that it's possible. to make an important and positive impact on people's lives" -/J~ q.~ 
page 8 Wednesday, April 20, 2000
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


1, f , ' Join SUB at the Fieldhouse: 
Easter treats and live Music from The Transoms 
Easter egg hunt prizes inside eggs hidden around campus 
\i.prize: Se~a Dreamcast gift c~rtificates to Best Buy & Papa Johns 
pick up prizes 4 to 6 at Fieldhouse Mall 
come decorate cookies listen to live music & eat Easter treats! 
-·--~ --------­

VIEWPOINT 
O
THF 

Wednesday, April l9. 2000 BSERVER page 9 
=----------~--=--=-=-=------~-------=--=-=-=------=-=--=------=~~-=~~~~~-=~~~~~-===---=-=-=-~=---=-=-=-=~--=-=-=-=-=~===========-=--=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=--=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=--=-========-===============-============ 
THE OBSERVER 

r,,, f.,,J,p,,,r/,,,,t, /J,,,"~y ,v,.,,,_.!'"["''' .'•:,-,.,.;,,![ ,\',,,,.., /),.,,.,,,. ,,,,,,; S.,i,,r Wf,ny', 
-
P.O. \lox Q. 1\n11c [)0111,. IN 4(,'\% 01-1 ~,Hnh l)i11i11~ 1--Ldl, Nnrrv Dame. IN 4()5~6 
EDITOR IN CIII Ef Mih~ Connolly 

M,,NAGING EDrron  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Norel'll G1llcs111c  Tim Lane  
A,ST. MANACING EDI fOR  0PERA1 IONS MANAG!:.R  
Tim l.ng,111  Brion Kessler  

NEWS EDITOR: .A11rn: Mari, Ma1ri11gly V1r.Wl'OINT EDITOR: L,L, I laughcy SroRTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amand:i Grt'Ul SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly Mc\lov PHOlO EDI i'OR: I.ii Lrng 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: l',H l'cccrs An DE"GN MANAGER: Chis Avib Sv,rcM.'i ADMINl,TRAl'OR: Mike ,;unvillc Wm ADMINISTRATOR: Ad,1111 Turner CONTROLLER: ll,,h W'oods GllJ\PHICS EIJITOR: jose Cudhr 
CONTACT Us 
OFl'ICE MAN'\GllliGENERAL INFO.........6.l l-7471 fAX.............................................................(,,3 l-G'.127 At>VF.RTISING..............................6.\ I-6~00/8840 
ollscrver@darwi11.cc.11d.cdu EDITOR 1:-1 CHIEF.......................................63 l -4542 MAN,\GJNG EDITOR/ASST. ME.. ...... 6.31-4541 Bt:5JNES5 0fflCL..... .........................6.'11-531., NEWS...................... ................................631-5.E.3 oh:'letYer.(1hs11cws. l@nd.edu ViEWl'OINT ........................................... ..Ci.> l-5.'>0 > ohscr\'l'f.\'il·wpoi nt.l@nd.edu SPORTS. ....................631-454J ob,cr\'l'r.sport;'.. l fi..l'rnd.cdu 
SCENE.... .. .... .. ............... ....................(,.'\ l -4 'i40 
obscn·cr.sc<·ne. 1@'nd.edu SAl'IT M,\RY's. .. ..............................631-4324 
ohservcr.s111e. l@nd.c.:du f>HOTO .. ....... 631-8767 SYSTEMS/Wm ADMINISTRATORS .. .......6J 1-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visll om Web sire :11 l>ttp:lloh.>e1N·r.11d.<'tl11 for daily upcbccs ofcrn1pus news-, spores, tl!:uures and opinion columns..1s wdl as cnroons. review,; ,ind brl'aking news from rlw A-.soci;ur:d Pres.,. 
SURI' TO: 

movies/music fr1r \vci:kly srndenr revit'w., 
online features t,ir spe­,rnd Llll'S of priru ,1ds 
advertise tor policies 
cial c1tnpltS owcr;1gc 

archives to search for 
about The Observer .irticb published aricr 
m meet the cdiror!-i and •\1:gu:-.1 199') 
sraff 

POLICIES 
The ( lh,crn·r is the i1Hkpmd,·nr. d.1ilv newspapt'r puhbht"d in prim .111d onlinc hy ,he students nf the Univn,irv nf Nntrc D,unc du Lac ,rnd S.,inr ,\,1arv"s College. Editorial content. inch1ding ~idvL'rcisemenrs, is not ,go\'l'rllt.'li by policit''-ofthL· .:aln1inisrrarion ofcirhcr msrimuon. The t)hscn·r.:r rcscrvt's cht' right to refuse ~1dvcnist'Illl'IHS basL'd on content. 
·l"he Hl'\-VS i.'i reponed as accurately and objectively as pnssihle. linsignt"d cditonals represent rhe opinion of the ma1oritv nt rhe Editor in Chief Managing Editor. Assist:lllt 1\1a11agi11g Editor and dcp;utrncnt editors. Commcm~irirs. lerters and columns prcsenl the views orthe ,11nhms .md llll[ 11,·ccss,1rilv those ofThe ( lbserver. 
Viewpoint ,pace is :nailable to all readers. The free c.:xi)rrs.'iion ,l~1ll opi11ions lhrough ll'tters is encouraged. l c:rtcrs; ro d1<.' ELliwr mt1st lw signl'd ;rnd 11111st indnde c..,l11ui.:t i11l(>r1nation. 
Q_ur.mm,s rt;/(tll'di11g ()/,,·erwr policits sh01,id hr direct­
rd to Ftlitor in U,itfAiif.:,, Cn,mv/11. 
DILBERT 
r 
I'll MAKE -YOUR LIFE MISERABLE! 
I'LL THWART YOUR. 
EVER'{ MOVE! 


c 
C, 
" 
Q 
@) "' 
<ii 
E
.. 
'O.. 
'E 
..u 
E 
0 
<.> 
t: 
4) 
.c 
'E 
~ 
~ ~ 


John Rocker has right to free speech 
STORRS, Conn. 
In an interview for Sports Illustrated last December, Atlanta Braves pitcher John Rocker made disparaging and racist remarks with respect to the fans of the Braves' hated rivals, the New York Mets. Baseball 
Jonathan
Commissioner Bud Selig suspendnd McMurry Rocker for 28 ganrns and linPd him 
University of
$20,000 for his 
Connecticut
comments. An arbi­trator recently 
reduced Rocker's suspension to a few games and 500 bucks. 
Even that slap on the wrist is too hnavy a punishment. Hocker should be lnft alone by Major League Baseball. 
!fr has broken no law. 
This is America, afl.er all. Frer speech is as American as apple pie and, yes, baseball. It is the Bill oJ' Rights that makes America such a great place to live. It gives us the freedoms to say whatever wu want, totn shootin' irons, associate wil.h whomever we choose. worship God in any manner and espe,­cially not have soldiers quartered in our homes. 
Mr. Rocker's freedoms are our own. Should he be punished for speaking his mind, however reprehensible his ideas, th,m all of us will become lPss fnrn. 
Free speech is all milk and honey whm1 someone is talking about feel-good subjects such as diversity and tol­erance. The test of our love of free speech comes when the speaker preaches hate. We should detest what Mr. Rocker says. But we should fight to defend his right to say it. 
This is not to say that he should get off scot-free. His employer, the Atlanta Brarns, can and should fire him, not because of his remarks but because he has harmed the salability of their prod­uct and injured their corporate image. 
In short, part of John Rocker's job is to represent the Braves in a positive fashion. He has clearly failed in that duty, but it is equally clear that the Braves wish to retain Mr. Rocker's ser­vices. 
That is their right. After all, he does throw a mean heater. But it is our right as consumers and fans not to purchase tickets or watch telecasts for any rea­son. Should sports fans find Rocker's transgression too onerous, there is always the melting pot of major league soccer to keep one entertained during the summer. But we should also have room in our hearts to forgive. 
Mr. Rocker seems to be sincere and contrite in his apologies. Thme is excul­patory evidence on the charge of racism -he does have multietlmic friends, he had until December amicably worked with players of many races, yada, yada, yada. It is entirely likely that he did not believe what he said when he said it. He may be just what he appears -an immature 20-something good ol' boy who was trying to lash out at Mets fans, 

all of whom hate him and some of whom have thrown batteries at him (D 
cells, no less1). 
In the heat of the moment, he may even have thought he was being witty. His comments were dumb to bn sure, but may not have been intended to be as hateful as they were. As a native Georgian and a lifelong Braves fan, I am undecided as to what my own reac­tion should be. 
1 detest what Rocker said. 
But I am a baseball maniac and cer­tainly cannot give up on my tPam ­tllis will be the year they beat the Yankees in the Series! Maybe I'll com­promise and refrain from doing the Tomahawk Chop when Hocker is in the game. And I'll hope the Braves, in a tri­umph of poetic justice, trade Rocker to the Mets. Mr. Rocker will be paying for his comments for the rest of his life. Ile will henceforth be cast as a racist, or at the very least an insensitive jerk. That is punishment enough. 
Play ball! 

Jonathan ll.1cMurry is a student at the University of Connecticut. This column first appeared on April 17 in The Daily Campus and is reprinted here courtesy ofthe U-Wire. 
The views expresser! in this cobunn are those of the author and not neces­sarily those uf 7he Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
~
HI. I'M 
WHAT HE WENT TO 
i.
THE NEW 
HAPPENED SADJST
. 
:;;
SADIST. 
C 
PARADISE.
TO THE. 
"' 
OLD ONE? 
~ 
~ 
.l' 
~ 
C 
:, 
0 0 
a 
"' 
Q i C 
:r 

i I 
l
,,, 
t 

"Say this for big league baseball ­it is beyond any question the greatest conversation piece ever invented in America." 
Bruce Catton Civil War historian and Pulitzer Prize winner 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Bookstore needs 
to get original 

I am writing to expross my concfll'll for the Notre Dam<' bookstore. I have observed a depressing Lrend over the last couple of months regarding the type of clothing that is being sold. 
l first took notice a couple of months ago when I saw tho red, pink and white articles of NotrP Dame apparel with hearts all over them -right in time for Valentines Day. [ didn't think much of it until spring break rolled around and the ·•official" Notre Oarne Spring Bn1ak 2000 apparel came out. Instantly, I felt a gag reflex in the back of my throat. I could not believe bow corny the Univi>rsity had gotton, or just how low they had stooped. 
Last week, I again vveut tu the bookstore to find "wbo wants to be a millionaire?" Notre Dame l-shirts and Notre Uame hats with Asian writing on the front. 
I have also started to get the feeling that I was walking into AhercromhiP and Fitch lately when I have visited the bookstore. I am nol requesting that the bookstore make all their clothes plain and boring, but unique to the school. Don·t follow evN·y fashion trend because it is a waste of money and time. . 
I can guarantee that not every "Notre Dame Spring Break 2000" shirt was sold; actually, I have yet to see one on a student here. 
John Scolaro Junior Keenan Hall April 17. 2000 

Law school is more than rating 
Visiting campus last week for the law school's superb Natural Law Jurisprudence lectures, I noted law student Joseph Tomain's letter (April 14) regarding law school hir­ing. Mr. Tomain expresses some anxiety because Notre Dame Law School slipped a few places in rncent U.S. News Rankings. 
You needn't worrv. Joe. 

Notre Dame rema'ins the premier Catholic law school, and that ranking will never be lost so long as all of us who are or have been privileged to be part of the school's histo­rv remember that each dav. in the words of the Holv Father, "we are called to rnake the Church present :ind fruitful in the ordinary circumstances of life." 
U.S. News Rankings serve their purpose, but they are not Notre Dame's measure, They tote up books in the library, keep track of how many graduates pass the bar on their first try and very subjectively measure what others "think" of the institution. 
Notre Dame's law library is one of the finest in the coun­try because of law librarian Roger Jacobs and the staff that assists him; no one seriously thinks bar passage is a problem for Notre Dame graduates even as there are inevitable and anomalous dips from time to time in a given jurisdiction. And as for what "others think of us," well. it is nice to be loved, but a sincerely counter-cultural Catholic must be content with being one of those who are "blessed" for being "persecuted for justice and righteousness sake 
.. 

And Joe, there is nothing "immature" i11 lhe hiring process. Notre Dame's faculty is strong at every level. and recent new hires reveal what Notre Dame hiring has always reflected: academic excellence of preparation is assumed; superior tf"aching is expectPd: a commitment of persistent and intelligent research inquiry encouraged and, above all, a willingness to see that human problems -including especially the burdens of others that coun­selors in the law are called to take up -are not activities that am foreign to the (;ospel. Dean O'Hara and those leading your law school, Joe, understand that all of cre­ation, including your present legal education, is to be ordered to God. 
Don't let yourself, or your alma mater, be ranked by the things of this world. You, and your fathor before you, Joe, chose Notre Dame because the secret of the success of 1wnry Notre Dam,i lawyer is that it profits a man nothing to losn his soul f'or tlrn whole world, let alone Wales or a fow places higher in a nows magazine. 
Douglas Kmiec 
Professor ofConstitutional Law April 16. 2000 

OBSERVER Wednesday, April 19, 2000 
On bnhalf of South Gateway Rotary and all tlw homeowners, I would likP to thank all tlrn NotrP Dame and Saint Mary's students for devoting tlwir Saturday to Christmas in April. It was cnrtainly heart-warming to see so many students giv(\ tlwir time on a beautiful day to help others. 
Again, thank you! 
' 
Paul White Notre Dame Class ol 1960 South Gare Rotary April 17, 2000 
ND needs dialogue on sex 
I was a bit dismayed by tlw two letters in Thursday's Observer "M<•n on Campus respond to raµe letters." Over the past few weeks, a number of' women have poured out their souls, their pain and their isolation on the pages of The Observer, and these two letters were the only response from Notre Dame men? 
When I attended Notre Dame in the late '80s. one was still likely to be expelled !'or having broknn (or allegedly broken) the famous du Lac rule about extra-marital sex. During my undergrad­uate vears, 1recall sever"al girls expelled for preg­nancy, a couple expelled for being found "suspiciously" alone in a room after parietals and several other cases which led to a gen­eral lack of communica­tion about sex, rape and pregnan­cy. 
I also expe­rienced a very noar-miss with rape myself. 
Emerging from a hazy drunken state, I found myself locked into a dorm room with a male student intent on rap­ing mo. The fact that my sole presence there could have lead to serious problems, or even expulsion, of course played into my aggrnssors hand. "If you scream you'll got busted." 
To makr~ a long story short, as soon as I got the opportunity, I decided "I'd rather got busted than raped, so I'm gonna scream." I ran off' and that was the eud of the story, at least f'or him. It took mp, a long. long time to gp,t over the f<~ar and suspicion l learned that night. 
The moral of the story is, I think, lhrne/'old: 

I. Tho subjnet of sexuality and soxual rPlations should be approached in a more open and matun• manner on campus. 
2. The rnalitv of a social life based on tho con­sumption of alcohol nneds to bri addrnssecl, not by crnating alcohol-frnn events, but by looking into 
tho root causes of oxcessive drinking (one of which is social inhibitions linked to tlw diflicull idnal of 
Catholic kids' behavior). :-1. Timm needs to be' a rnal dialogue> lrntwnen 
women and mPn on campus, opPn and sin­cere communic:ation between adults and not just an rdthnr or betwnnn class talk and dating game. Thnse lettnrs 
struck me) as bning a hc)ad­in-tlw-sand 
rnaction 
from "good 
boys" who 
rnjoc:t any 
responsibili­
tv for tlw !Jelrnvior of tlw "bad boys." 
Sum, you can't paint all mnn with 

tlrn seminarians want to havP sex (as I rncall). Tim line lirw bntwnen good boy/bad boy or good girl/bad girl could bt! as slim as a gamn of quartcirs (ii' you still play that). l make this appnal to tlw Notre Dame community. Your youth is glorious -don't waste it with !'also morality or prudishness, but don't destroy it wilh ignorance, fnar and violonco. 
Mary Ann Hennessey Notre D:1111c Cl:1,s of I 990 
Strasbourg, Francl' 
April I 4, 2000 

OV\ly a few rssues le~1 9et }'OIAI" letters iVl! 
viewpoint. l@nd.edu 

, 
Wednesday, April 19, 2000 page 11 
============================.:=-===-====================================================================== 
Sucking the mud out of AnTostal's heart 
•

Scene reminisces about AnTostals past and spring entertainment on campus 
Nnt to jinx all of Nortlwrn Indiana, but it appPctrs that ..1't1•r months ol' Motlwr '\iatun• pla:,"ing tlw roll' of lickIP goddPss. \\'I' nmv !inallv b1• d01w with tlw snow. Spring.is Slll'P.ly niaring" ils bt'aulil'ul hnac.l in d!'lir·at1• intPrvals. .\s HobPrl 1'1•nn Wa1-r,~n might say. Lhat h111wy-!ippPd, sparkly Pyt•d. orbish­!'HrPr] wood nymph. tlw mw with llw jaundicPd linw•rtips, Sprin){. is 'itll·P!y trot­ting nimbly lhrnugh thP f'on•sl 'twixt tlw lakPs. 
This can nw;u1 onl~ oni• thing' al ,'\!otrP l)nnw: That is, a big. fal. howling Iii· This ran 1111•an rnany things. but om· of llw many things thal it rnn nwan is tlw approach of 
\nTostal. rn· .\n Tosta!. tlw c;aPlir ft·stival 1il"tlw Stwing. ('(+bratPd annually al 
0iotn• llanw as !inals linw approac·lws. 
T!w ,\nTostal tradition al Notri· Danw artuallv dalPs back lo )lJfiS wlwn a small group ;ir sludrnts dc>vPl01wd tilt' goal ol' c-r1•aling an l'VPnt d1'sig1wd to blow off a load ofstl'am bPforP stuc!Pnls subjl'l'l tlwmst>lws lo llw prickly rigors or study­ing l!ir linal l'Xams. Tlw t'PsliYal bngan on a raid:,-small srak. but PVPntually grc·w to trPllH'ndous proportions by tlw micl-70s and continuPs to Pxist to this wrv clav. Tlw big CJUl'stion about 1\nTostaltod;ty. to paraplmtsi> a song !'1•aturPd in tlw rult dassi1· '"/hi' /Jiq Leborrski" is: \\'hat rnncli­lion is its rnndition in" 
Ill'rt' arl' a 1'1•w 1•xampks ol'what you would haVI' found at tlw I'J7S _,\nTostal c1'll'bration. 
. \ k1•g-loss c·ompPtition on South ()uad is 0111· prinw l'Xampl<'. This \\'HS Pliminatcd aftt>r tbl' l '>88 !'vent wlwn an l 8-Vt\,tl'-old prospPrtiv«' studPnt was sl'l'iously· injur1\d by an ill-thrown kPg. In !'ronL til'Cushing. Cushing I tall of lingi,wcring. l'Popl1• w«m' throwing nmpty k(•gs in r·ronl of Cushing I !all or Engilll'Pring. Tlw l'an• or rampus has rhang,,d so rompl1•LPly lhal th<' nwn• possibility of a kPg loss at modPrn-day !\ioln• I )anw has just bP1·n 1•radicakd from Lill' rP,tlm or possibll' thought. 
Earlii>r .\nTostals also lhtlun\d a s!Pw of' mud-pit activitiPs. Tht•n• was mud vol11\y­ball. a tug of war that rnncludnd with thP !osPrs bPing dragged into tlw nwss. mud pillow fights. a snakP race through tlw mud and bPst of all. a BPn-1 Iur Chariot Han' through tlw mud. 
Tlwy usPd to haw a cnn-stal'king t·.on­Ll'st on South ()uad. ThP lt'am or l'our whosP stack rosP to tlw grPatPst hPight ,1·011 tlw numlwrs of bP1•rs l,hat their stark was compos1•d of. ,\ml llwrP was a carni­val. Tlwrl' was a carnival. with a f'Prris wlw1,J tilt-a-whirl. l!urrirn1w. ganw booths and r1•al liw. small hand,;, snwll­lik1•-rabbagP Carnit•s. 
In tlw I1)77 ,\nTnstal. h1111dr1•ds of ping­



pong balls \\'l'!T rnirn•d clown on campus from an airplanl', sunw ol'whirh had numlJPrs that quali­liNl tlH' lindr·r for priz1's f'rom local nwrrhants. It was nvt·rall a wrv rnol affair. 
In n•rP!ll yPars. though. tlw ln•nzv has dt>linit!'IV r!Pwli1pt'tl a much sol'ti:r. la111Pr l'dgt'. l,.tst .war's ,\nTnslal. in particular. was probably an all-Limt' Im,. V1Ty f<'w p1'oplP inl1•rvi!'\\l'd rnuld ('Vl'l1 
r1•mt-mlwr a singl" ,wnnt from lasl ynar's spring lling. but thos1) who rnnld Wf'f'() bl'yond unimprcssc•d. SPnior J.P. Montufar rdll'ds...t\nTostnl goes to I lollywoocl'? \\'hat kind nf@%'1/., &@1! $#11 * naml' is that?"' 
Off-campus Biz McShane expressed sim­ilar sPntiments. "J\nTostal is one of those Wt\Pks that you mark on your c-alendar as something important and then it passes and vou don't <'Ven noticr.." 
Sei1ior l'vlatl ()uirion pla1·es the derline of .\nTnstal within a 1wrsonal prn·spectivP WP can all rnlatP to: "Latdy. AnTostal has bPPn a loL likti my birthday. You sp011d all spring gNting nxcitnd about your parPnl'i g1•tting you tlw C.I . .!00. Airrrnf't CarriPr. 
but when you opl'n your 
gifts. you find out lhal 
PV!'nts. I hat!' NFHF." 
,\II I ran pPrsonally renwmbPr of last. vear's madrwss was walking past a ca,:d table sPt up by Stllrrnhenge that said something to tlrn c!ll'l'.t of'. "! lo"v manv Orr:os can vou tit in your mouth at 0111· time'?'' r-.1ny (;od have nwrcy on us all. 
The drop in last year's quality is appar­ently due -at least in part -to an abuse of funds that or:currcd during the debacle that was AnTostal of two years ago. Frr.e pizzas and cheeseburgers new in all direc­tions. mashed potato lighl<; erupted. sumo wrestling explod­ed onto the scene. and there was a h,cr tug event set up in Olm of Lhose inflatabl0 Momi,'1.alkv thingamajiggers whic·h was appar­l'ntly quitP a bit ol' fun The onlv problem wa~ that thr !'Vl'nt rnst twicP as much ,Ls ilw planning com­rnittPP was bud­gell'd, so, while it was tlw bost AnToslal in rncPnl nwrnory. it wus also the · sourre ol' the worst /\nTostal in r0crrnt. but V()ry fuzzy. memory. 

festivities is, of' cours<', the usual amount of impenl'trnbln red tap«-' that coils itself' around an aln'ady gasping campus. Tlw mud pits were apparently dismissed f'or health and liability reasons. the keg-toss was historv af'ter the horribln acddf'nt and Jell-0·pils have apparently bcPn deHmcd una<·ceptably risky. 
This brings us to today. What does this year's AnTostal hold for Notre Damf'? Well. rm positively hog-tied if I know. berause I could not get a hold of AnTostal Chair Jeff Milligan in whatewr SC(Tl't lair it is that hc f'rf'qlll~nts. Well. on tlw clay that lhis article was written anvwav. Mv bad. H<~gardlnss. the scrap of i1;l,lf'1irntii111 l do have about this year's evPnts is not wholly promising, and hails from tlw SCB \'Vcbsite. The blurb statos ominously: 
"Coming Soon ... AnTostal' 
J\pril 2:i -27th 
Bouncy toys, miniatun· golf. T-shirts. 
food. bands. movies. a dancP party ... need I say morP? ComP out and join th<' fun!" 
Sarcastic r<'action No. l: .IPPpPrs1 GeP willikers. I hopP the bouncy toys an' PXtra bounrv this war! 
Sar/astir ;<•action No, 2: You 1w1•d sav a lot more' · Sarcastic response No. 3: I'll rnmf' out and enjoy your Auntie's run! 
The last of which doesn't reallv make any sense, but is very innuendo-)', and always good for a laugh. Or a sharp blow to the head. 
Hegardless, some Notre Damp students remain optimistic about the annual visita­tion ofAnTostal upon this misty, grass­engorged campus. StudPnts such as Burt Binefield. "My favorite parts or the AnTostals of' days gone by involve the budding of springtime sexual prowess." But who wants to put faith in optimism when it's so much easier tn bP cvnical? Ignore Burt Binefield. · 
AnTostal has a long way to go to regain its past gory glory. and this year will prob­ublv not be the vear. !n fact, the world we !iv~ in may hav~ slipped into such a deep. impersonal, legalistic pit of uptight. unyielding paranoia that the glory may never return. But I say, let us find hope in ourselves. l.11t us make of AnTostal what we can. Where there be mud. let us thPre wallow. Where there be free food. let us there dine. As the earth awakens and warmth begins to once more pPrmeate our souls. let us live in the spirit of the Irish. and all that AnTostal is. LPt Notre Dame follow the words of Irish Poet Martin Walsh when he said quitP famous­ly, "Nil acm bobilfn agat." The land will lead. let us follow. 
The opinions expressed in lhis column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Ohsen-er. 

They used to have a can-stacking contest 011 South Quml. The team rf.four 1rhose stack rose to the grecttPst height lDon the number (~r bPPrs t!tat their st.ack was composed of 
thry got you a NEHF foot­ball instead b!•r.aus(; it was 1,,ss r•xpt>nsivP and had no small parls that vou r:ould swallow. That's how AnTostal has gottPn. Tlwv havt> almost IJD moiiPy. and tlw pow<'rs­that-hl' will not 11llow anv­thing that could be 'risky.' sol gtwss WP'n• stuck with 'NEHF-lik<'' AnTostal 
KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 

AnTostal's of the past were popular events, frequented by
Anotlwr rpason for thn lacklustrr those looking for something a little wacky, a little risky 
natur<' of recent and a lot of fun. 

-:.__.,....______ 
page 12 Wednesday, April 19, 2000 


Where to go when you're hungry for 
f'ar.t>d with such dil<'mmas as choosing honw in thisRy IAURA KELLY bet.ween a "Supc1· Pub v. ilh The Works" cozy neigh­
sl"~llt: \X'rirt•1· , 
and thn "C:01!1>.g<' Football Hall of Famn borhood bar. Supnr Pub Pizza Burgc!r." The hurg-Prs During nor­\Yhile many have been a part of the an' huge and juicy -ma<ln exactly t.hc mnl kit.chPn run LhilL is C.J's al'ter-hours. not rwery­wav vou want. thrm. For thm-H1 who shv hours (11 one has heen so lurky as to Pxp11rienr.t> awi1y from Lhr traditional burgm· {nspe·­a.m. lo ') the food and atrnosphcrn of th<~ pub cially llOW during llrn good ol' LenlP11 p.m. daily). during the normal waking hours of tlrn s" ason ) . hot h r, hi C'. k P n and fish a r P Cl's is not dav. Cl's is rnnr~ than the hazy. crowd­available. But be l"orcwarnrd: tho fish is thn crowdnclf:d° bar of the weekends -it is a tradi­nothing spncial to wriW honw abouL. pince of' tional Notre Dame eatNy as w111l. From ft's best to stick to tlw bn('f that marfo Thursdav th<' "Fat Like a Champion" sign hanging C.T's famous. As for tho infamous wings, and Friday over the duorwav to C.J's offors t.hrnn nigh t.s, but thP walls ('ovc>rr>~J in CJ's Pub simple variPti<'s· instt•ad a pil'turns Df drunkr-n Mild. llo1 and snm11. quint
studt'nts. this µlac<' Monday-Saturday: 11 a.m.-9 p.m. 
S11ir.idal. · And pub populat­srrPams ''NOTHE Sunday: closed beware of' ordnring DAJ\.! E." Vegetarians the Suir·idal nwrnlv
233-5981
aside. most. would 
to impress llw gi r.l 
sav vou cannot con­Price: you arc daling ­sider yuursell' a true l h c s e n am ns a r ,~ appreciatn Urn tnw atmosplrnre of Cl's: ND student until you tru0-to-lif('. high tablr!s with bar stools that swivPI
Food:
have conquered one The meals arr (always l'nlt'rtaining), walls µla.stcrP<l of Cl's "Super Pub quick. hol and larg0 with picturrs of past football play1:rs, a Burgers." complete 
enough to satisfy Urn snrmingly-bottomlnss popcorn mad1irw
Atmosphere:
with that mysteri­h0artinst appetite. and thr. purP r>njoymPnt of watching ous. VPt alluring 
Priers arn fairly your l'riPnds inhale a shared serving of" "Speciitl SPasoning... Service: chC'ap at $:-3 lo $7. fries imuch largt\r than one nxpects!. 
C:.J's is known for acrriptabl(' on any Overall, C.J's of'fors good, standard burgers and wings -student's budgrt. farn al a cheap price -what PVPry C'Ol­something you Overall: Tll(' servicn is imnrn­legi' studPnt is senking. And not only should know before diately f"rirndly and that, but sompone t1Jse makes iL and you open the menu out ofHve shamrocks attPnliv1\. making brings it LO vour table,. You can't g<1t and find yoursell' you feel right at that al t.lw dining hall So th,, rwxt tinw 



MARY CALASH/The Observer 
you'rp craving an All-A11H\rit·,t11 plaunr of burger and l'rics. hc•ad ovc>r Lo Cl's (bc!forc your usual I' a.m. \VPdncsday appcarnncn/. Your hungry stomach will thank you. 
By MARY ANNE LEWIS Su:nc Writl'r 
Lula lives in South Bend. She has a nkc littlP place on Edison and 23rd. Ifs called Lula's. Imagine that. If Pr upholstf\rer sepms fond of animal prints. lier cook lik<'s coffeP.s. teas. sandwiches and pas­triP.s. and prepares them WP!l. Lula herself is quitr the traveler. On her tables. beneath thn glass, lie postcards from Barbados. Paris. Italy. cwn South Africa. 
ThP man behind the countt~r has a f"rir'ndly voice and vrry f'urly dark hair. He asks. "DoPsn 't the man on the wall look like he's in pain? The fire beneath his fare and all ... By thr. way. how may I hPlp you?" Sure enough. on the right wall, a painted man looks down on llamcs thal. if rnal. would surely turn his chin black. 


Mug sizes range from small to medium to hugP, and tlrn huge-sized mugs havl' personality. Lula's has pnrsona!ity. Lula's employees have personality, and lwr upholsterer certainly does. too. Thro<' guys with a 
mi-rrophone, guitar and hamonica jump through lhe door. hurry to the mid­dle of the r,afB. play music and sing. Customf\J"S quiPLly sit on dead lt~opards and tig1:rs and otlrnr such jung1<\ mam­mals. drink mocc:ac:ci­nos and sip Mandarin 
Orange Teas. 
For about $5. a pnr­son ran buy a sand­wich cornplemnntnd by potato chips and a famous Lula's drink. Pcopll, study here, play r-lrnss and discuss lhings. Convcrsations cover nv1:rything under thP sun. Thi' ambiance fosters this sort ol" pleasantry as through the door all sorts of people walk. announcf'd by Lhe1 lit-lie bPII Lula's t h a l 
Monday-Friday: 7 a.m.-midnight
r i n gs against Saturday: 9 a.m.-midnight t h C 
Sunday: 10 a.m.-10 p.m.
glass of' 
273-6216
t h n 
cl o o r . Price: !\I <~ n , wom­
Food:
en, chil­
d r <' n . t (\ n ll s, 
Atmosphere: 
s L LI ­
dnnts. 
gr an d-Service: pann1ts -all arc 
w 1, l _ Overall: 

conw. ·Gt'.or­
out oftiue shomroc/1s
gc Cop­pingt\l", a junior at Notrr Danrn, says, "1 lik<! thn stalT. espl'cia.lly Bill. Well. really only Bill. I !e's the onlv one I know. IIi, Bill!" i\s Bill calls for Mi;:haul. he sees a hand go up ;ind brings "Mich,wl" his meal. Michael is ~itting on somPthing that looks likP a t/eclincr from th~ Vicu~rian_ em. but it ~crnld also pass !or a precR m the local M.od-ern Art exhibit. As a new customer app-roarhPs the1 r.oun-ter, she at-tempts to rhcck her ap-pcarnncc in the mirrors on the ldt l'ront wall, but linds it di!'iit:ult dur• to tlwir awkward placPnwnt. Tlwy tPasP lwr vanitv. 
11" ,L stL;dcnt ncPcls an nsc:apP rrom tlw drvnPss or Calc:ulus or Phvsirs. Lula's wr'l­<:0~11t,s this person 1'01· good food. good convnrsation and grnat atmosplwn'. Tlw pric<!S are rnasonablP. and t!wir rooki('s am unbPatablP. So pity a visit to Lula's. Lula's is locatnd on 16:31 Hdison Hd.. just a litt!P bit ol' a walk past thn stadium. MakP sure to takP in the d<'cor. t'SpPrially thn ceiling of Urn front ldt conrnr. You'll never look at a Christmas ornanwnt in tlw sanw way. Enjoy! 


Nick's Patio 
Ope11 24 hours 277-7400 
Price: ,c,p 



Atmosphere: ,~'j 

Service: Overall : 

rm! uf1iue s/l(Jmrocl,s 
By SCOTT LITTLE 
s~ene Wrircr 
Mmm ... rood. l\iothing els11 like it. Excnpt som<' drugs. and particnlar thick liquidi:i. 
A good place lo gel somP food is Nick's Patio located at 1710 N I run wood Dr. South Bernd. Nick's is open 24 hourcl a dav and sincr. thdre arc 24 hours in a day'. il's open all the time. 
Like most restaurants, Nick's is owned by Greeks. For your own future rdr'r­lrnc1!, a lot of Crnek peopln havf' llrn name Nick. Sonw of' llw dc,ad givl'-aways ol' t.ho Crnd,ncss can bci l'ound right i11 tlw menu: Gn•<)k Stylf' Lamh Chops any­one'' Yumrno! Or how about some i\1hcnian Style Chicknn and snm11 Baklava for dessert? Keep it comin', CrnPks! You've g-ot to hand it to them, (he pcoplf' at Nick's did a grPat job of showing their heritage. but nol boing annoying about it likn Applebt'n's with all that fake hometown junk falling off pm walls. Or onn or those su1ak placns Wlwre you f'ind yoursdf in a rustic log f:abin, whalcvnr that has to do with i'OWS. 
The lllPllll is six pit!{f\S long. Thn options ani t)fldlnss and tlrn rntnbination ros'iibiliti<'s arn an PXpansivP vista that could only be matched in a lrnavcrn l"or tummins. Thcv ha.VP a 26 oz. Stimk avail­ablo l'or $16.')[i and a Top But1 Sirloin too. Orm of' their dnlkious srwr:ialt.il's is a Pancakn Sandwich If you an'. constipat­ed. you'll bt' glad to know that Nie-k's has raisiu LOast for $1.3(~ and stnw<'d prunns for $1.')5. They rPally h1t.Vf! t'VPrything. Good appetiz,\rs. salads. s,,af'ood. from thn grills. brnakl'ast ilcn-ns, sandwichns and dPssnrts. 
Otht'r amrniities includn tlw comfort­able booths. good lighting and nicP. rPal­ly nicl, looking fake plants. If' you'rt' u pnopln watchnr, Nick's is right up your ally. It's usual to find loud trashy rwoplP, kissing couplt's. midd]r\-agnd ,wir<lrH's. pr\opll' playing Mugk.. pnop!t' with rnsts, 1woplc v.caring sunglassr;s in tlw middle· or Llw night and plnnty of' c·.ollngf' kids. Ooooo. taking a l'ornign language•! Brush 


Wednesd:iy. April 19, 2000 page I 3 
mething other than dining hall fare ... 
Macri's Deli plastic P,~psi cups, a testament to the traditionally poor-tipping 1·ollrgP stu­
By KATIE SANDERS 
<"asual atmosphere at Mar.ri's. ThA rlonts.
. Monday-Thursday: 11 a.m.-9 p.m.

°:'t.:t.."tk'Wtit1..T 
sandwiches, especially the deli subs, Although Marri's doPs not scream Friday-Saturday: 11 a.m.-10 p.m. arc probably the best and safost five-star restaurant. it scHrn1s to bn thr C:011si£kri11g LhP quick sr>rvirP. laid d10ic:r. at Marri's. The s:tlarls semn to prrf11ct combinalion !'or ('oll<'g<' stu­
Sunday: 12 p.m.-9 p.m.

lrnd,. almnsph1\rl' and short vvait f'or a be sub-par. with the lettur:e appearing dents. It is casual, laid back and irrnx­
Lab!(', il's surprising Lhat 1110n, Notrr; . 280-4824 to bf' the prncut, prepackaged kind penslvc. Service is quirk. Tlw food is llnm1' s!udc•nts do not f'rl'quPnl Price: .,) J) _,) J!l J) that onr. might find in the dining hall above avcrag<\. Pnople am l'ri<'ndly. l\lai-ri"s l><·li and Bak<'rv. loraLPd on \okay, not that bad!. On the whule. and it 1wen serves benr for tl1osP lrgal 
N iIt' s ,\v " n U I' in d o ,,, ,~ t o w n So u I h 
the rood is tasty and filling. drink c rs. It is an l\S p n c i al Iy good Brnd. f\1a<Ti·s ran b(• a bn•ath ol' frnsh Sandwir:hes oflcn go home in doggy choicn aftor football ganws wlH'n thl' air 1·omp,trPd le, thl' 1Jv<'rllorw. unorig­bags. wait at Friday!'> and Chili's rnn bo wrll irrnl rhai11 .1·Pstaura11ts such as TC) Man·i's, also !orated in over two hours. Fridav's and Chili's. To bi-frank. this Bloomington. West Lafayette and Tim bnst µart about Macri's is prob­is not f'i1w dining, but p<•rfo('t l'or tlw Mishawaka. seems perl'Prtly tailored ably af't!'r vour nwal is ovrr and tlrn n,lli•g1• stud1•nt who wants a sandwich to a col!Pgc Lown, with Notre Oame bill.is paid.· wlwn you can \Vanclcr into 
and friPs, quick s1'rvi1·,• and a Im, bill. parapliernalia decorating the walls. the adjoining bakPry. and if you havP 
~fo,-ri's 11w11u offPrs a wid<' ran)!/' of 1lowi\vor. most of the patrons st. Pm to somrhow managrd to savP room in app,·tizi•rs. cl1•li sandwil'lws. chirkPn, br old1ir South B11nd rcsidonts. Tlrnse your stomach. you ran fill up on a s a Ia ds a n d so u ps . Th 1' a µ p<' ti z ,, rs oldnr l'olks trnrl to Pat early, so there wid1~ range of' <·ookiPs, rhrrserakes, might lw tl11• bPsl part of' tlw mPnu. out olllve shun1roclv, can br a short wait on weekends pies and candy. 
with rlwirn; lik1• brocroli buds (a bclw1rnn 6 and hPalthy Vf'gt~Lab!P masquPrading as a 7:30. but typi­tastv l'ric<l lrPaU. bn·acl sticks that cally no more com;, with a choirP ol' dwf'sc or mari­than 10 min­nara saucP. rhP1'sy garlic brrad. utes. Usually. onion dPvils Oikr mini rings) and ttw al Mani's. you standard mozzarPl]a stii'.ks lo namn a arr seated and fow. scrvod quickly. 11' tlwrc~·s room af'tf'r the broccoli esp0cially buds, patrons can sarnplP sonw ol' llw w h t! n co m ­m,tin rhoirl's on tlw nwnu. EspPcial\y parPd with the rerornmi'ndPd arP thP nwatbalt sub. crowded ('.hain Uw bro('coli nwlt. tlw rl11•psy potato r (' s l a u r a n t s . s o u p an cl th ,, tu r kP y s an cl w ir h . T h " S£' r v P rs are n,•atP-vour-o,vn sub offnrs lkxibilily VPI'\ attentive, for l'in.irkv PatPrs. harh sandwi('i1 asking snvpral l'On1!'S with a choir!' or prPtZ!'ls or linrns if' <wery­chips. or. for a liltlP nxtra. l'renrh th ing is all friPs. Sandwid1Ps romp in oblong right. even for 
MARY CALASH/The Observer 
wickPr baskPts and Llw drinks in largP 

ThP ,tlnrnsplwn' won't all also on the menu. Mexican beers. l'Xactly bring imag1!s ol' La Esperanza Overall. the prices are The servicP at La Esperanza is averagP. sombrnros and mariaC'his Monday-Thursday: 11 a.m.·9 p.m. very cheap comparPd to You are scatP.d imnwdiatPly whrn you 
lo vour mind. Tlw rPstau­other area restaurant'>. walk into the door. but it of'tPn takes a rnn­
Friday-Saturday: 11 a.m.-midnight

nu~t is l'urnislwd in a mod­The food quality is sidrrablc amount of' limn to gPt drink and f\rt1 f'ashion with 1\foxi<'an Sunday: 11 a.m.-8 p.m. excellent. Everything appntizcr ordrrs lo th•\ scrvPrs. As not.Pd stylt• walls and tablrs. ll is f'rom the chips and narlier. lhe waitnrs and waitrcssns spPak
273-0345 

definitPly a South BPnd 
salsa to the main course fluent Spanish. which is wry int<'resting.
Price:

lakf' on t\1Pxirnn..\II of' th<' tastes wonderful. Every but limy am ol'tPn slow to gl'l rP!ills and to \\·aiu•rs and wailrPssPs. tabl<~ is already restock ttw chip baskPt. (Juil'k rP!ills an• a howt'V1'r. s1wak f'lu!'nt equipped with a bowl of nrrf'ssity wlrnn eating spiry MPxirnn l'oods.
Food: 

Spanish and lhP n!staurnnt salsa and a large Also. the wait for your mral can take a doPs havP a small. intimal<' amount of tortilla chips. large amount of timr. I lowever, all of tlw
By CASEY GRABENSTEIN 
r1,PI to it. Atmosphere: This is great unless you employees are very c.ourtnous and ami­
Si.'t"l1l" \\hi it.T 
Tlw prier' is vPry rPason­wonder about how long able. Overall. thr. servicn is prPtty much ab le•. Al I or thP d innPr 
everything has been sit­what you could expect at any arna rnstau­I\IPxican food is good. And. tlw closer to 
Pnln'cs and nwals fall Service: ting there. Most pnople rant. 

llw bordl'r you gl'L. llw bPUPr thf' food bctw<'Pn S!i and $9. Dinrn•r don't seem to mind. Thr. strong points to La EspPranza arl' gPts. unl'orlunat1·ly. Notn• Danw is vPry 
for two. including drinks Overall: The entrees and its prims and its food. The atmosplwre
far l'rnm Llw M1•xii·.,tn bordl'r. ll' you don'l 
and thr lip. would bP right meals are very hearty. falls short and the service is about awr­bP!i1•v1• this 1lwory. sampli• sornP of' ttw 
at $20. It is slightly mon• They take up most of' ag<'. But, thP gn~at f'ood makes up f'or thP
ow offive shomrocks 

llining 11,Lll M<•xirnn rnisi1w. La l·:sµnranza 
Pxp•'nsivf' to oat dinnPr the provided plate and weaker points of' this dining PxperiPnrr. takPs this disadvantagP in slridP and than lunrh. Lunch costs somewlrnrn in thn havn ricP and beans piled on top of thrm. The overall quality is definit(\ly worth tak­all1•mpts lo bring an autlwntir I\Ircxican $4 to $7 rangf'. Also. tlrn sdoc:tion is vnry The cooks arc very generous with their ing noticn to. It is nf'arly impossibln to cm­11arnr lo South lknd. ls il any rninddPm:<' f'xtrnsivf'. Thn nrnnu is hugi\, which is meals. The drink selection is the same as it ate a Mexican atmosphern in South lknd that I.a lispNanza nwuns "thP hopp" in good in somf' ways and bad in olhnrs. would be at any other normal restaurant anyway. Everyone should try La Esper­Sp,tnish'l This n'slauranl is LhP only hopp Thny can makn any M,~xican food imagin­except for the fact that you are able to pur­anza. The food will make one realize that · J'or bringing good l\foxican food to South able, bul it is kind of scary that hamburg­cha'ic Mexican soda'i and if you are of age. La Esperanza is the only truo "hope" for·• Bend... rws. S<:al'ood and do-it-yoursr.lf omdrl<; arn you can choose from a large selection of Mexican food this far l'rom the border. 


up on your Spanish with Uw l\foxiran hus­boys. ,\ lot ol' intl'rPsting !'acts can also be l.l'artwd thl'l'I'. h1r instillll'O. ··what kind or pPopl,, l'V(\f" ordl'r Tlw SidP of FPla ChP0sr''" Tlw ,u1sw1\r, "J>n,gnant \\·omPn." You won't karn that kind or stuff in a dassroom. 
lll'rP art' l.lH' 11PgatiVP sidPs: If you go llwn•. it clo1•sn't matlPr hov, long you're in tlwr1'. you will ronw bonw snrnlling likr smok<'. But that's a small prico to pay for llw good food. good servirP ,rnd gn!aL Jtll'lll­llriPs. 11' yo11 lik<' .h•ll-0. tlwrP is som1• good llt'\\'S and s1mw bad 1ww:;: Y,'s. llwy \mv1~ it. and yPs. il's l'X!Wnsivl'. $2.:i'.i !'or 01w largP .IPll-0. ,\ l'l'\\ 1>llli'.r pric,' shockers an1 tlw Thr•'" l't>a!'h llalv1is l'or $ l .1J:, and tllf' c;r,qwl'ruil llalf' for $1.SO. But llwrn an• plc·nly ol' lltlll'r opti,ms if' you don't f'pcl lik1i grtting ripprd off. If' you look up, you'll notic<' sonw c·i•iling ti!Ps that art' a bit gross. Oh. and thtm' is actually no patio. al h\ast I didn't srn onP. Grntle read('.r, also take not1• that Nick's Patio is in no way co111wcLPd to Pntt•s Patio in Ni!Ps, Mich. or Sunny Kim Chr1i's Gardrn Patio in Mishawaka. 
Ovrr all. Nick's is onn of the molr,st plac('S to c•at. and at 3 a.m .. it's the cooks!. H's a hubbub and a molting pot. It's run: it's th1• rral world: and it's easv lo fall in low wilh. YDu could go thcr;~ thn•c times Pvcry Wl'Pk and it would still be cool, and you would still b<' cool. Anything mor1• tlian that is pushing il. and that's pn•tty good for any ri1stau­
ranL. 





BFA and MFA srudents display their work at the Snite Museum. Each piece is accom­panied by an explanation, writ­ten by the artist. The art show­cased appeals ro a variety of rastes. 
photos by: MARY CALASH 


Snite displays MFA/BFA Thesis Exhibition 
nation or aesthetir value and dncp and the person who wears it, Pven minclPd pt>rson who might not bP
By KATIE SANDERS 

artistic meaning. Sevrral explore tlrn with lhe knowledge that thcsP. ini:linPd to frrqurnl arl musPums. 
Scene W ri rer 

rPlationship of femininity to society. assumptions are often inaccuratP.. MFA stud1•11t Jay LrFor's work dis­I[eicli Stenke's paintings on youth and Stronsky took s0veral outf'its and sur­plays tlrn physical naturP or sound in Have you walked by the mammoth gender immediately grab the viewer vny r\d a range of pP.ople on their an aesthrtically plPasing way.
• 
wooden box in thP entranc<' lo with a bright crimson barkground. impressions of the pPrson who might Pop in to the Snitr -Pvrn for a St'r­O'ShaughnPssy? PPrhaps you have Kaleen llealey explorns fomininity wear them. ond, l:Vf'll if" vou nt'Vt'r havP b1•1"ori' mistaken this for maintenanrc crPw through the traditional art of' quilting. Not surprisingly. shr, received sonw (it's free) -a~1d SPI' thP amazing CTP­leftovers. IIPr piere rombines l'Pminine images inlPn•sling and .often rontradictory ations of your !'Pllow studPnts. FvPn ii" 
Take a closer look. 

I'rom three generations along with respons1!s. Thr\SC rnsponscs are vou can't do that, r-lwrk out tlw wood­
This largl' woodr.n box is, in fact, art family photographs to demonstrat<• supPrimposPd on imagr.s or Urn out­;\11 box in O'Shaugh1wssy on tlw way -the final thesis of BFA the diff!' rent messages fits. Hl'ading the words on earh outfit to class. If you arl' f'Prling prrssurc· to student Gino Hninhart. If MFA/BFA Thesis received by hn grand-and comparing them with your own gPt good gradPs and gPt a job so you you read tlw explanation Exhibition mother, her motlwr and prPconrnivnd notions can bt• an eye-can mak!' lots or monPy and buy lots on the sidP panel, you will herself in regards lo tlwir 1,pPning comnwntary on _judging oth­or things, you might want to skip class learn that this pine!' of femininity. Tim quilt is an Prs by thPir appe,trancP. and l"ind rl'fugP. artwork reprpscnts lhP . Snite Museum interesting. dntailed dis­Ov t' r a 11. th P hu m a n cl P s ire t o s(\ " k play that berwfits l'rom t1xhibit of'l'Prs
. On display through the
rPfug<' from our matPrial­
some dos<' altnnlion lo somdhing !"or art istic soci(•tv. On(' sid0 of end of the semester th1~ quotl'S that arn inl<'r­1·nthusiasls and the work ,;f!'Prs viPW1'rs spcrs('d with tlw pi1'.tttrl's. art rnusn1m this sanctuarr: 1\ door to Othr,r works S!'Pnl to bP i'irsl-Linwrs alikn. a tiny halhv~y that nilminatPS in a IPstam1•nts to th1• morn prarliral Hach display is "floating-planr' physical rf'f\1gp" -,Lpplic,dions ol' art in soril'ly. Scv1•rnl curnpld1· wilh a slightly rnorl' intPr1•sting than a plain studo111s r:rnatncl things that ,·otild rw full <'Xpl11.nation woodPn bo,. mark I' l t' d d ir c-r· 11 y lo romp an i1' s . rron1 th1• artist. This si>nior thesis is part of 11n art Bryan Fox di•signl'd l'urnilurc• ,vith Yo u i-;1 n so u n d rxbibit curr,•ntly running at th1i Snitr• 1·omplPL.-ly rci·yrll'<l and ri-c_vl"lablP morP intt•lligPnt \lus1·tir11. ThP r..tF\/BF,\ Th1•sis rnat1·rial. Shnila W<'sL's rri•ation wh1•11 vou tt•II Exhibitinn 1,hirh opr1wd April <J and spl'aks lo the rH•galiV1' irnpacl 111' ll•1:h­your · friPnds runs thro11g-h thr 1•11el of the sc·hool nology on rhildrPn and o!TPrs an ahout thP ink-jl'l year in1·lucks 11 BFA and l"iv1\ ~!FA ,dlnnativn plaything to k1•1•1) lhf'lll prints that nipr1•­exhibits. af'tiVP. \1loons. stars and pla1wts dPrn­s1•nt Nirvana as a Tlw works run lhP ~amut bPlWPl'll ra t t' a c hi Icl r1~ n's p Ia ys ct th al p u ts mdaphor to thr· esoteric ,wd practiral. Visitors are Little Tvkes to shanw. indPs1·rilrnblP. in i tia 11 y grc(' tr' d by a s o m f' w hat BF/\ ~tudrnl Sarah Slronsky o!Tt>rs ins!Pad of' "sonw abstract display or whiln heads in a onr or the mosl Pugaging piccPs to cool pil".lurPs rrctangular box. Upon rurtlwr insrwr­art-ignorant eoll1\gP sLudPnts. This with sonw guy in tion. this work has rnmplPx artistic picc1, <n;plorns r.lothing as id('nlity. SOl11!' wall'!" ... meaning, n'.prcscnling displac,!rn,·nt, Accordillg to Stronsky·s uxplarrntion. Th('n' is PV1·11 a burial and erasure of idcntitv. iwoplB consciously and un1'.onsciously display for LIH' 
Many of the works sham tllis com bi-makH connections bPtw1wn clotliing morp sr.ii'ncn-



Wednesday, April 19, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Blazers drive .past Clippers with help frolll Slllith, Pippen 
Associa1ed Press 
I.OS ,\NGCLFS 

Stow Smith scor,-\d 24 points and Srnttir Pipp<in had 18 Tuosday night as llw Portland Trail BlazPrs dr,fpaLPd lhP C:lipp,•rs 116-100 to run Los Ang1d1•s· losing strP-ak to I 7 ganws. 
In a ganw witb nothing con­<·row at stak<'. llw playoff-bound Trail Blazers took llw !rad Parly and stayed in front by double digil~ most of the rc•st of the way against th<' NBA\; worst team. 
Tlw Clippnrs am l 4-(17. 
Portlanrl had WPll-balan('rd scoring, wiL11 Brian Grant adding l :-; points, Hashoed Wallace 14 and J\rvydas Sabonis 12. 
Smith was 11-of-1 C. l'rom the floor as t.hP Trail Blazr,rs shot 64 pr'l'l'<:nt to Los .'\ng-r\lr\s' 4S prr­rPnl 
lkrl'k AndNson and Tyronr, '.\/,,sby ti~d the Clippers with 20 points <•ad1. Lamar Odom had 1 S points and Michael O!owokandi 10 points and 14 rebounds. 
ThP Clippt'rs. b1d1ind Crom wlrnn tlw ganw was 2 1/2 min­uLPs old. rul tlw lt\ad to 59-49 Parly in tlw third quartc\r, but Smith and Pippr·n then hit 1:on­sPrutiv1' :1-pointN.S and Portland W<' 11 l on lo l1;acl 8{J-70 lwading inlo th<' l'inal quartPr. Los ,\ng<'ks did not thrnaten ag-ain. 
Hawks 111, Nets 109 
l.1Jrr;nzo v\'rig-hl scored four of Atlanta's six points in tlw second ov1•rtinw and blorkr•d a potential tying layup by N('W Jprsey's KPith Van I lorn at tlw buzZPr in a virtnrv ovn t.h(' l\lets. 
It \\,L~ till' Nets' 10th straight loss. TIH' Ilawks won tlwir second 
str.iight after losing nine in a row. Their final home game of tht> season drew a Fan Appreciation Nigh!. crowd or 11,412. 
Wright, one of eight Hawks in double figures with 10 points, scorPCl on a tip-in 56 seconds into the second oYertime for a 107-105 lead. George Muresan timi it with a short jumpc'r with :·l:42 left but Jason Terry scored for a 109-107 Atlanta lead. 
Wright's bucket with 2:48 left made il 111-107. Van !lorn, who lr>d '.\lew Jersey with 24 points, got the Nets within 111-109 with a basket. 
The 1'-fots had a r,hatH'.P to tie v.hen Jim Jackson missed a 3­poinl attempt and Van Horn rebounded with 5.4 seronds left. 
After a timeout. \'an llorn went to the basket. but Wright marlr, tlH! gaml'-saving block at tlrn buzzer. 
Atlanta's Jim Jackson sent the game into the ser,ond overtime when Im hit a reverse layup with IO S<'conds left to tie i.t 105-105. 
Elliol Perry, who scored a sea­son-high 20 points, scored all six of "Jew Jersey's points in Urn first owrtime. 
Tlw Hawks appean,d to haVf; the• gam1\ won in regulation, b,ding 99-91 witb 1:50 left, but NPw JorsBy v1,cmt on an 8-0 run in the final 1 :2:i, tying it nn one of' two free throws by Kendall Gill with 27.8 Sf!<'onds lef't. 
Heat 97, Raptors 73 
.lama! Mashburn keyed a third-quarter rally that prn­pPl!d! tlw Miami llnat to a victo­ry owr tlw Toronto TTaptors. 
Anthony Carter led the Heat. who never trailed, with 17 poinL-;. Mashburn added 16 and Alonzo Mourning rnntributr•d 10 points and !'our blor,ks. 
Vince Carter paced Toronto with 17 points, Tracy McGrady had 15 and Dee Rrown 10. 
The Raptor:; had a moment of concern when Vince Carter left the game late in the third quar­ter with an injured left ankle. It turned out to be nothing more than an aggravation of a muscle sprain and Carter returned to start the final period. 
By then, the game was out of reach. The Heat scored nine straight points, the final seven by Mashburn, to take a 58-47 !Pad with 6:41 ld't in thP. third quarter. \'ince Carter answered with a 3-point play, but Mourning scnred the next four poinl'i and Miami maintained a double-digit lead the rest of the wav. 
cine important factor for the Heat was shot. blocking. They blocked 12 Toronto shots to two by the Raptors. 
The Heat r,onrluded their home sr,hcdule with a franchise­record 33-8 record. 
The game meant nothing in terms of playoff matcl1ups, with Miami entering the game locked into second and Toronto in sixth in Lhe Eastern C:onforcnce seed­ings. 
Knicks 100, Pistons 88 
ThP Detroit Pistons !'ailed to dinch the seventh seed in the Eastern Conferenr,e playoffs, los­ing to New York in a game that meant almost nothing to the Knicks. 
Detroit can still claim the sev­enth spot and a more favorable matr,hup -against the Heat rather than the Pacers -in the first round of the playoffs by bPating Chicago on Wednesday, the final day of the regular sea­son. 
The Pistons went 2-2 vs. 
Miami and were 1-3 against top­seeded Indiana. 
/\!!an Houston scored 29 to lead the Knicks, who already are lochd into a tough first-round matchup against the Toronto Haptors. It was the highest scor­ing total. in 11 games for llouston, who shot 9-for-15 from the field and 7-for-8 from the line. 
Latrell Sprewell added 1 G and Kurt Thomas 14 for thfl Knir.ks. who rnached 50 victorir,s for the first time since the 1996-97 sea­son. New York improved to 33-8 at home -their best home record since 1992-93. 
Jerry Stackhous<' scornd 24 for Detroit. getting all his points in the first three quarters. Stackhouse sat out much of th~1 fourth quarter and the Pi:;tons were unable to sustain a rally without him or Grant Hill as their losing streak was extended to thrfle gamAs. 
llill sat out his second straight game with a bone bruise in his IAft ankle. 
Hornets 103, Cavaliers 88 
David Wesley scored 23 points, including 14 in the deci­sive third quarter, to spark the Charlotte Hornets to a victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers. Charlotte, which has won six straight and 13 of 15, began the day a half-game behind Philadelphia in the rar,e for the fourth seed and home-court advantage in the opening round of the Eastern Conference play­offs. The 76ers played their final game Tuesday night at Chicago. 
The Hornets finish the season Wednesday night at home against Miami. 
Wesley scored the first four points of a 9-0 run that put Charlotte firmly in r,ommand at 
79-6:3 late in the third quarter. 
Derrick Coleman had 21 points and 11 rebounds and Anthony Mason 16 points and 11 rebounds for Charlotte. 
Bob Sura led Cleveland with 20 point:;, Andre Miller scored 16 and Shawn Kemp had 15 points and 14 rebounds. 
Celtics 114, Wizards 81 
In a game betw~~i!n losing teams playing out the string, the Boston Celtics outhustled the Washington Wizards and led from start to fmi:;h in a victory. 
Hflserve forward Dannv Fortson had 17 points and 12 rebounds to lead seven players in double figures for the Celtks, who posted their biggest margin of victory for the :;eason. Boston broke a seven-ganrn road losing streak and will finish the season Wednesday night at home against the New York Knicks. 
Chris Whitney. finishing the season for injured point guarcl Bod Strickland, scored 25 points for the Wizards, who matched their worst loss of the sPa:;on and dropped their final three home games. Washington wraps up the season Wednesday at Milwaukee. 
The ·celtks outrebounded the Wizards 53-34 and enjoyed an 18-6 advantage in fast-break points and a 38-20 bulge in points in the paint. Boston shot 54 perr,ent as Washington's reserves offered little defensive resistance. 
Washington's Mitch TTichmond was O-for-6 and scored just three points off free throws. Jahidi White went O-for-3 and scoreless -he missed a pair of dunks. Don TTeid missed an open 5-footer at the final buzzer, and the fans booed the Wizards off the r,ourt. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Student Needed for Child Care HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed-Fax it fast! need money this summer. Maybe I Don't call a 900 number. During Summer room. $1000/month 2) 2-bedroom. Fax it fast! can walk Hillary's dog. $500/month. We'll make almost any Fax it fast' Want to exercise with a flagpole?
NOTICES 
Granger (near UP mall) family changes to the houses. Call Bill at Sending & Receiving Noreen, 

needs college student to care for 13 675-0776. Take the money and run to the out-Some lady on Wild Cherry Drive The University of Notre Dame yr. old girl and 7 yr. old boy. THE COPY SHOP lets. That's what I want to do. does. Inv1tes PUBLIC PARTICIPATION in Transportation required. Must have 3 bedroom duplex Lafortune Student Center developing a WELLHEAD PRO-references, non-smoking, and Appliances, W/D I need a licensed driver to take me That's Andrew' TECTION PLAN Thursday. April experience with children. This is a 1 mile from campus Our Fax# (219) 631-3291 to Macri's. 
20. 2000 at 2pm. Facilities Building. Christian family with professional 273-8332 And E-long! 
Questions concerning the meeting parents and good references are Why does Martin Short get a talk 
should be directed to the University avaliable. Should enjoy outdoor LARGE 6 BDRM HOUSE 2 FULL .....The final issue of the Observer show? And Amish!! 
of Notre Dame, Utilities activities-tennis. swimming, biking, BATHS & BASEMENT. UTILITIES is May 3rd_..... 
Department. (219) 631-6594. etc. Can provide some flexibility as INC. $400/ROOM. 247-9808. The date of the commencement Does anyone really think Martin That's SO him. to dates. Compensation based issue is May 19th. Short is tunny? 
upon experience. Please contact RENTAL HOUSES FOR 4-6 STU-So, so him. 219-243-1228 after 6:00 PM for DENTS WITH LARGE ROOMS Prompt Pick-Up & Delivery Screech, I'm sorry your mommyWANTED additional information or 284-2918 W&D. 291-2209 DAVE Call 631-COPY and daddy stole all your money. Billy and his girlfriend are playing 
during the day.  water polo in the pool.  
SUMMER JOB: Caregiver; two chil- APARTMENT FOR  Fax it fast!  I thought I was your snack pack.  
dren, ages 7&8. Mon-Fri,7:30AM­ Summer Server Needed  SUMMER SUBLEASE!  Fax it fast!  Or Marco Polo.  
315PM. Jun 12-Aug 18 Granger.  Flexible Hours, Great Pay  College Park · 2 bedrooms,  Fax it fast!  Stop looking at me, swan!  
272-6107 or 284-3485  Close to Campus  Furnished. Call 243-8194  Sending & Receiving  That's a great game.  
K's Grill and Pub 277-2527  Scorebox.  
THE COPY SHOP  Marco..  
You've 901 approximately 45 years of work ahead of you. You may as  Caregiver needed 2000-01 acade­mic yr, Tues-Thurs, 7:45-5:45 for 2  FOR SALE  Lafortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-3291  Scorebox, scorebox, scorebox.  ...POLO!  
well do something you love now. Be  young children. 631-7765. Transpo  Keys for me.  
a Student Brand Manager repre­ and ref. required.  95 Reel FW Cabris,5 speed, blk.  Need help with a project?  Maaarrrrcoooo...  
sent,ng Red Bull on campus next  Leather, 40K mi, excellent cond,­ Well, not exactly me, but you know.  
fall. Throw parties. go to all the hot spots. build a great resume. E-mail Rob.Koller@redbull-us.com.  FOR RENT  tion. $10,000/Best. Must Sell Call 243-8901  Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING services are available at THE COPY SHOP  What day is it?  ...Pooooloooo1 Alright, that's quite enough of that.  ..,  
WANTED. 6 subletters for summer.  LaFortune Student Center  October?  
2 bedroom. 2 bath College Park  1022 Madison St. $300/month  Call 631-COPY  I hate DART  
PROFESSOR SEEKS SUMMER  apartment for lease during summer  negotiable. Contact: Barb x1573 or  I want to download that song.  
NANNY FOR ENERGETIC 4·YR­ session. Call Erin @ x4238 if inter- Chenell x2378  silly  lrishlink lies.  

OLD BOY. MUST LIKE HORSES AND HORSESHOWS. WEEK 
ENDS. CALL PROF. MILLER AT 631-4133 STIPEND PLUS 
EXPENSES. 
Need child care in Granger home. 15 hr/wk. Summer. Call Katie 271 · 1935 
Do you want to live in Turtle Creek next year? Call Angela 272-2207 ested. 
Chicago Roommate Needed! 3 ·99 N.D. grads in Chicago want a roomate unlll Sept. 1. 1 bedroom in big apt only one block from Wrigley Field. Call ASAP Katie 773-348­7530 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR. PRI­VATE BATH, PRIVATE KITCHEN, LAUNDRY, PHONE, 5 MIN. N OF CAMPUS. 272-0615 SUMMER SUBLEASE 2 Bdrm, 2Bath, furnished, very close to campus 243 2601 
PERSONAL 
Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING services are available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Call 631-COPY KN-congratulations on the intern· ship! I am so proud of you. Love, CK 
P.S. I like this priest and his rules ... ha ha ha. 
To the few, priviliged, select male recipients of the ·women on top shirt", wear it with pride. (You know who you are). 
CK-probably shouldn't wear the shirt to Easter dinner. 

You know what song. Shampoo is better... Ta-ta-ta-ta-today, Junior. No milk will ever be our milk. Man., I'm glad I called that guy. Oh my, Martin Short is stripping on 
television. Watching this is not worth production pay. Not at all. Oh dear. 
It's all a scam. And I don't have whooping cough. Those bells are haunting me. Dunh, duh, No philo. No theo. No more space. 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 19, 2000 
SOFTBALL MEN'S GOLF 



By KAREN SCHAFF Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's dropped to sev­enth pJan' in the MIAA aft11r going 2-2 in Sunday and Monday's games to push their season record Game 1 
16-13. 
Saint Mary's 5
Saint Mary's Manchester 4 hosted M a: n ­chestRr Game 2 
Col leg<' Saint Mary's 8 
0 n Manchester 4
Sunday, winning the first 
Game 3 
gamfl 5­Albion 2
4 ill 11i11e innings. Saint Mary's 0 
T h (1 Belles harl 14 Game4 
hits in 
Albion 5 
thP t'irst 
g a m " Saint Mary's 0 a n d I h re P l'tTors. Pitcher Kristen Martin INI the Bl>lles on the mound and at lhP plate going 3-4. Freshman leadoff hittr.r and outfielder Katir. Murphy also had thrr.e hits in flve at-bats. "Everything just came togeth­er," said Murphy, "We had our 
A -Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Force ROTC Cadets 
, ,, College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 
~ .. , ..
'i 
~-~ Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Cadet Gamache 
Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to make your decision, now. 
Contact Captain Klubeck-631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
defense, offense and hitting. Wii just looknd good nil around." 
Martin pitched a grnat game, striking out Hight of Manclwstm··s hittr.rs. 
Su11day's second game ulso went to thr. Bellr.s, 8-1. Tlwy had eight hits and only one error. 
Martin r.ontinuPCI t.o hil well -going 2-4 with one double. Sophomorn first basnrnan Hadrnl Deer also had a singfo 
and went 3-4. 
Monday did not provn to bn as succPssl"ul as Sunday. Saint Mary's lost both games to Albion CollngP, 2-0 and 5-0. 
Tim Belles had six <~r-rrn·s in tlw second gam(!, giving Albion four unnarned runs. 
The hitting struggled as tlw Belles were shutout in both games. 
The lfolles strnss tlrn need to remain focused f'or both games of a doublr.-header in tlw future. 
"We Jl<'Pd to work on staying in it for both games." said junior pitcher /\nnn ScngPr. "Wr. play well in llw first ganm. but we need to ke(\p it going l'or thn sPcond game." 
Saint Mary's needs to win tlw rest of l.heil: confernncn ganrns to qualify for tlw Ml/\/\ champi­onships. Their next ganw is Thursday afternoon against al. B0thel Co!legn. 

Irish look to recover at Akron 
By KEVlN BERCHOU Sports Writer 
Af'tnr a lost wnnknnd which saw scores soar and moraln plummet, t.hn squad will bn looking Ul rPpriso earlinr sea­son succnsses in tlwir last rng­ular season tournamont o!' tho snason this woeku11d at Urn Akron Invitational. Thn lnvitP roprescrn ts Notrn Dame's last chancn to gain momentum heading into postsoason play. 
Momnntum is sornly n1rndAd, as the toam is stagnant in its current state, having posted its worst outing of tho Sflason this past weekend. Tim Irish fin­ished 1'.1th (out of 17 teams) in Ohio State Keplnr Invitational. 
"We were pmtty terrihlt~ ... sophomore Stove Ratay said. "It was a lougli course tu score on. but w,~ all wasted a lot of shots in some stupid places." 
Though the Irish wern not at their bnst in the tournament's first two days, it looked as if they might still be in position to make a late charge. 
Sitting in 10th, thny though tlrnv still had a shot. Thoso hopes wore quickly daslwd with a dismal final round per­l'ornumr.c lhal saw no play(\r shoot lmver than 77. 
S<•nior Todd Voron was tho bosl on a lackluster day, !iring a linal round 77, l'or a tourna­mnnt total of' 2]0. llis S('.orn provod good onough f'or a sham of :Brei placl\ in a [fold of 90 pl aynrs. /\ l(i x Kent, .Io ff Con rm 11, Chris Whitton and St<wo all struggled. 
Notre Damn's aggrPgat.11 tota I of' 925 was far b<,hind tourna­ment winnor !\orlhwestern ­which shot 876 ovPr the thren days. 
"Obviously wo wnren't at our 
. 

best in tho first two rounds, but we thought wo could havo played a lot bettc>r than WP did on tho third day," Hatay said. 
More deprnssing than Urn result ol' the tounrnnwnt was the hit taken by Notrn Damo's NCAA hopes. Tlw squad, hav­ing not qualitind !"or the tour­nanH' n t in OVl'r 30 ynars, snemed poisnd f'or a bid lwad­i11 g into this past WD<1k<\IHI. After such a <lisappointing pr'r­formancr., Uw Irish virtually eliminatnd any ('lrnnc11 of' qual­iJying by way of tho districts. If' they are to now gnt in, tlrny will have to be victorious at thn 
J'oCito's J'izzeria Restaurant 
4615 Grape Road• :'>li•hawaka, lN 46S4S Phone: ?19-243,53115 Far; 219-243-7877 

r-----------,
I I :n-..y oI:a.e, •I 
I ge~ on.e 1 I 
I Ilnea1llil : 
I
I Trn_Wfi(D?(:9.·
I ~ · ·• · I 
IA..:n.,-;y-t;hl.:n..11;1
I -I 
I OIi.. Ill.eII...._ I
L-----------J r-----~--------, 
1 I :n.._y ora_e I In,:rge : pi.zza,, I ge1:; 1 I med.::l.._m
:.·IFLL;~mm L--------------.... .J I 
upcoming Big l!asl <:hampionships. 
"Our chancns ar11 slim to no1w of qualifying through dis­tricts," Hatay said. "WI' haw to win at th<' Big Fast Championships." 
Tlw Irish will IH' in action th is w P (\ kP n cl a t th" /\ kr on Invitational. in ciPs1wral<' t1PPd 
of' somP Il10111l'nt.Ulll. 
"W11 haw lo b<' playing wPII /wading into llw Big East," said Ratay. "You can't rompPl<' in rnllngP goll' by shooting 80." 
"Wo all llPPd to improvP. Notw of us playnd w11ll last wliPkPnd." 


Wednesday, April 20, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Rec:..:.---~----11?" ~-­

Student Award 
RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
,.; Each year over 1 50 students participate in women's boxing. Each of them can personally thank Aimee Catrow for having• the vision and perseverance to start and cultivate the club: through its growing years. The 5th year architect major supervises training during both the fall and spring semesters, as well as directing the club's activities that help make the Bengal Bouts a smoothly run operation. A native of Cloverdale, CA, Aimee also taught Knockout. Workout classes for RecSports. She has also participated in lnterhall football and outdoor, indoor and co-rec soccer. 
Recipients receive <£~ merchandise from the 
A& 
VARSITY SHOP 
~ 
"Specializing in Authentic 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 
.&:r. 
VARSITY SHOP
·1•· 

"Specializillg in Authentic 
www.nd.edu/--recsport Notre Dame Sportswear" 
Upcoming Events & Deadlines 
Fitness Class Instr or Auditions 
Tuesday, April 25 -RSRC Return completed applications to RecSports by 4/18 and set up an interview with Jennie at 1­
5965. Applications can be picked up at RecSports. For more information contact Jennie ,. at 1-5965. 




Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (£~ l'T-L..,.~.=.1~ a•S. ....
merchandise courtesy of \,,&..,,-....__.....-,---~-and the virfio• with two locations in the Joyce Center. The virrzio; is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 
page l 8 Thr Obsrrver . SPORTS Wednesday, April 19, 2000 
r 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Corrigan tallies 100th win as Notre Dame beats Army 
By STEVE KEPPEL '>porrs Wri1~r 
Tlw nwn's lac-rossr team's win 
ovrr Armv last Saturdav marked 
llw 100th· Irish ra1w'r 1,,:in for 12­
year head roal'h Kfwin Corri.gan. 
This gamP 
was also th<' 
third straight 
win !'or the 
Irish who have 
stepped up 
their play 
immenselv in 
the past . weeks. 
.. , was very 
happy just to 
get a win." said Corrigan. "It w1,s a 
gamn where we had a lot of guys 
hurt; we had four guys sick with 
l'ood poisoning from tbP. dining 
hall." 
"l thought our team really pulled 
togethP.r and mnr.entrnted in a tlif­
lirull situation and did what thev 
ha.d to do. ft was a. great ,vay tf> 
win." 
This game for the Irish was once 
again highlighted by the balancP.d 
offensive attack of Tom Glatzel, 
Jou llarvey and David Ulrich. 
The 10-.5 victory ovPr Army 
leaves Notrl' Dame with a 6-::1 
1-ccord and ranked 12th in tho 
polls. 
There were limes al the begin­
ning of the season whrn it looked 
as though tho Irish would not be 
able to live up tu their preseason 
hype as they played poorly against 
Denver and Air Forr,e ,rnd lost to 
Lovola and Holstra in four consec­
utlvt> W!Wks. 

"Early in the year I Lhink w0 WP.re a little too cautious and wP. tried to rliminatn mistakes and wr WPren'l making plays as WPIJ as we wer(~ rapablf' of." said Corrigan. 
Now things hav1! tur,wd around for thf' Irish as they have won lhrcc straight 
and are playing Notre Dame 10 
b<'ttf'r than 
Army 5
ever. 
"We seem to be doing be doing a better job of making plays in the last few games and I think that's made a differ­ence for us." said Corrigan. "ff we can continue to be aggressive and try to mak<' plays hopf\fully we can eliminatf\ some nHll'C of our mis­takes and maybe> sharpen up in some areas of the game where W(\ haven't been as good r-iarly and still rnntinue to improve as the year goes on." 
The Irish have their lasl two home games this wnck as tlrny take on Villanova (8-3) this Wednesday and Fairlfield on Saturday. 
"We have prepared well in the past two days." said Corrigan "I think our guys understand that we are still playing for a birth in the NCA<\ tournament and tomorrow's game with Villanova is a vital game f'or our t1iam." . 
"Thoy'rn [Villanova] playing with a lot of confidence right now and I think this a very big gamr. ['or them as well as us." 
Thf\ Irish hope to extend their win strP.ak to four and 1>.nd tlwir season on a high notc before hrad­in g to Lhe playoffs with a win against tlw Wildrats. 


'V\Vce ~v1ell(CO>llln1te ~vu.t1ht ]!(O>Y tlhue f(ollllo>\\\VtLJrng mnuemrnlbHelr§ odf tt]hue N(oittJrce ]0)(ciuonue if;auorn Uly tLJnuto, 1t]h1(e <C(c1ut]hu0>lUi.<c (Clhurii§tt Laurn c (Ql1onunnuuurn1L1tylI 
lL]H[ ]E ]E]L]E(C1L
These men and 
& their sponsors 
women will receive the Sacraments of Initiation (Baptism, Confinnation & Eucharist) at the Easter Vigil at 9:00 p.m. 
Saturday in the Basilica ofthe 

JI AMES COCHRAN  JLuFEU )[IA  M(ARK §H][RAJSHI  
Marytztt Mendizabal  Veronica Lee  Gina Pilloni  
JEVERETT DITTMAN  JAMES KRUEGER  KELLY §INGER  
Katie Dorn  Chris Toner  Ben Kytelo  
TYSON FRASER  ASHLEE LOGAN  KIMBERLY SPRINGER  
Fr. Tom Gaughan,csc  Catherine Bateson  Manta Connor  
KEVIN FULLER  BRIAN MINK  
Jill Neuklis  Chris Lawler  
STEPANIE HOCHSTETLER  SUSAN R.OTH  
Bill Cerney  Elizabeth Wi!schke  

Special Tha1nk-s to the RCIA team far their support ofthese men and women throughout theirjourneys to becoming Catholic. 
M]Adams Cheryl Healy jenny Robinson 
Gary Chamberland, csc Tom Jacobs Peter Rocca, csc Mandy Dillon Erin Kennedy Tami Schmitz
Sacred Heart. 

Erner Doherty Stephen Koeth -(?MPU5
Monica Frazier Kevin Monahan 
i'v11Nl5TRY 


Wednesday, April 19, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SOFTBALL 
No. 18 Irish split close doubleheader with Sycan1ores 
Special to The Observer 
.Just on!' run separat<'d the winners from the losers in a 11011-confornnce doubleheader botween 18th-ranked Notre 
Danw  and  
Indiana Statn  Game 1  
Tuesdav  in  Notre Dame 2  
sof'tball action  
at Ivy Firld.  Indiana State 1  
Th"  Irish.  Game 2  
who moved to  Indiana State 3  
35-12 overall.  
won  thri f'irsl  Noire Dame 2  
ganrn 2-1. but  

tlwn frll to thr Syramores 117­
2:ii in tlrn sPcnnd game, :3-2. 
In tlrn first gamP, the Irish tan­dPm of' sophomorP Jennifer Krir.ch and junior Jr,nnifer Sharron pairr.d up to score thP lirst two runs of' thP game with Krinrh posting back-to-bad triplr.s and thrn wming home on HBf singlfis by Sharron in the 

o Development 


New service available thru ND Express. Lower Level Lafortune 

Hours: Monday-Thursday ll:00am-5:30pm & 8:30pm-12mid Friday ll:00am-5:30pm Closed Weekends 
Same day service if dropped off by 12n. 

"Rare Earth" pulls together the latest findings in systematic biology, geology, and astronomy to make a compelling case for the rarity of advanced life in th 
universe-Em met Judziewicz 
Springer 
first and third innings. 
The Sycamores closed the gap to one run in the sixth inning when Mandy Martin scored on a bases-loaded ground out to sec­ond base by pinch hitter Kate Giln11r. 
In tlrn top of the seventh, Indiana State had a runner in scoring position at second base with two outs, but Irish second baseman freshman Alexis Madrid made a diving catch or a short pop up by designated play­er Jcnnil'er Calandrilla to end the threat and the game at 2-1. 
Sharron posted a gutsy perfor­mance on the mound. grabbing her 19th win of the season and striking out 10. despite being hit in thr, back of tho head with a ball in the fourth inning. Martin took thP loss for Indiana State, dropping to 7-10 overall. 
The Sycamores grabbed back thr: monrnntum in game two. scoring three runs on three hits 
all with two outs in the top of the third inning. Indiana State pitch­er Kathy Yamashiro kept the Irish guessing on offense, allow­ing no runs on just one hit by sophomore Jarrah Myers through the first six innings. 
Pinally in the seventh, Notre Dame freshman Andrea Loman got the team's second hit of the game with one out. Junior Lizzy Lemirn kept the Irish from being shutout for the first time this season, hitting her second home run of the year on Yamashiro's first pitch. to pull the Irish to within one at, 3-2. Indiana State regained its composure, howev­er, as Myers grounded out to third base to end the game. 
The Irish face non-conference foe Oakland in a single game Thursday beginning at 4 p.m. at lvv rield. Notre Dame then trav­els to Big East Conference oppo­nent Pittsburgh for a double­header, Saturday. 


MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Rocker returns to mixed responses 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
With camera in hand. Kim Tolvert worked her way into the first row at Turner Field for batting practice, staking out a prinrn position to snap some pictures ol' her favorite player, Andres Galarraga. 
She wasn't all that interestP-d in John Rocker. who returned Tuesday from a two-week sus­pension after making disparag­ing c:omments about foreigners, minorities and gays. 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
an ~rtpartne, at f~follett.com .. 
NEW &USED COUEGE TEXT800KS 
"I don't plan to cheer or jeer him," said Tolvert, who is black. "But I am interested in the reaction of the rest of' the fans." 
For the most part. fans attending the game against the Philadelphia Phillies seemed willing to forgive Rocker for his comments in a magazine arti­cle. 
'Tm going to cheer for him," said Beth Layfield, a friend of Tolvert's who is white. "I really think he got carried away in the interview by Sports IIlustrated. He said some things he shouldn't have said. But I think he was taken advantage of by the guy at Sports Illustrated." 
In the interview, Rocker said he's "not a very big fan of for­eigners" and spoke with disgust about riding the New York sub­way "next to some queer with AIDS." He also described a for­mer teammate, who is black, as a ''rat monkey." 
"When I first heard about it. I r,ouldn't beliiwe that hA would say what he said in public," said Tolvert, who lives in 

TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! 
Announcini The Fulbright Competition for 2001,2001 
All first year students, sorhomores and especially juniors interested in Graduate Study Aoroad, don't mfas the informational meeting with Professor Alain Toumayan 
Tuesday evening, April 2), 10~~ at o:~~ pm in room Bo DeBartolo 
Rocker's hometown of Macon, Ga. "All of us have a right to our opinions. However, I don't know how he could expect any­one to just brush it aside." 
Larry Lfrn of New Orleans attended the game with a group that's in Atlanta for a conven­tion. 
"I don't know all that he said, but I'm not going to cheer for him," said Lee, who is black. "I was never a big fan of him before and f'm certainly not now. He's too brash." 
But Charles and Sandra Seagraves, relaxing in the pic­nic area beyond the center-field bleachers, were unabashed in their support of llockAr. 
"He's a kid," Sandra Seagraves said. "It's a shame it happened. On the other hand, who's not had to stick a foot in their mouths a few times." 
Hocker had already pitched in Atlanta during an April 1 exhi­bition game, drawing loud cheers and just a smattering of boos. The Seagraves planned to cheer loudly if he got in_ Tuesday night's game. 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 19, 2000 

Baseball 
continued from page 24 
Dame, allowing just one run over f'our innings and striking out five. Carl Tart (1-1) took the loss, giving up six runs in 4 1/3 innings. Irish freshman Brandon Viloria allowed his first run of the season aftPr relieving Laird in the fifth. 
Alec Porzel continued hitting the ball well in game one. 

Heilman wins Big East honor 
this stmson. awards during his carePr-timl
Special to the Observer In another noltiworthy Big East Confornnni rpcord Notre Dame junior rr.loasn f"rom a national publi­and canw just shy of' the Irish righthandcir Aaron lleilman cation, Baseball Anrnrica mag­rncord with his 18-strikl!out has bnen na nrnd tlrn Big East azitrn has upgraded lleilman game at WVU. lil'Ling NotrP Conference lmsnball pitdrnr of to Urn No. 3-ratnd prosp1•rt in Dame to a 3-1 virtory in a the week for tlrn third time in collegP bas11ball, based on ganrn that originally was tlw 2000 SPason and the sev­reports filed in early April -sclwdulml for s1wPn innings. enth lime in his career, al'tnr prior lo llcilman's outing at Thi~ [rish havP rnmpilt'll six turning in an historic 18-WVU. lleilman cntnrt,d tlw Big East weekly awards in s tr ik e o u t. g a nw in th e I O -2000 season as tlrn No. 9-2000 (second only to ButgPrs' inning win at West Virginia on ratcd prospect in college basn­night), with senior righthandN April I:i. Coll11giate Basnball ball. according to BA's annual Scott Cavey Parning the FPb. magazine also named Ileilman survny of' major lnague scout­28 pitclwr award, sophomorP as onu of tlrn three Louisville ing dirnctors. catrlwr Paul O'ToolP Parning Slugger national players of tho lleilman -who is the only the March 13 play1•r award week, making I IPilman rnw of Big East playnr evnr to rncnive and righthandPr .I.I'. Cagnt· just two play,~rs in the nation more tlian four wiwkly Big Parning tlw April JO rookiP to rt•c<•ive that honor twico East pitcher-ol'-thc-w<'t'k award. 
R~<p--er-zZ-d •­
University of Notre Dame• Department of Athletics 
/ 

Advisory Board 
Students, faculty and staff interested in serving on 
this board must fill out an Application, available at 
the RecSports Office, by Tuesday, April 25, 2000 
The purpose of the RecSports Advisory Board is to foster communication with campus recreation users in order to seek their advice and assistance in maxi­mizing the effective use of resources for recreation at the University of Notre Dame. The objectives of this board are to: 1) Create a board with broad repre­sentation of users, 2) provide a mechanism for the campus population to voice the concerns and interests regarding recreational programs, facilities a11d ser­vices and 3) Provide feedback and insight for RecSports planning, operations and initiatives. Members are appointed for a one year term, consisting of 4 meetings. 
RecSports Office, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
starter Carl Taft, shortstop Ale~ Porzel lined a single up the middle to score two moro. 
The Cougars looked like they were going to get out of the jam. though, when first base­man Jeff Felker lifted a fly ball to left with two outs in the inning. But left fielder Antjuan Mitchell dropped the ball, allowing Porzel and pinch run­ner Ben Cooke to score. Stavisky then added his second RBI of the inning on a single to left before Matt Nussbaum flied out to encl the inning. 
Freshman Matt Laird (4-2) earned the win for Notre 
going 2-4 with two runs and two RHl's, and Jeff Felker also added two RBJ's. Cougar third baseman Ryan Lardi. who r.ame into the game hitting .436, snapped a 16-gamc hit streak, going 0-4. 
The Irish hit the road again on Thursday for a doublehead­er against Big East oppon•m t Seton Hall. and will travel to Georgetown this weekend for a doubleheader Saturday. 


The Notre Dame Semester in Washington 
presents an interactive discussion videoconferencett from Washington., DC 
with 
Ma:rk Shields and Bob Novali 
(from CNN's ''Capital Gang") 
arguing 
Can the Republicans 'Win in November? 
weanesday, April 19 
6:30 p.m. -in 
COBA 133 
This is an event in the Hanley Lecture Series on Values and Public Policy 
Wednesday, April 19, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
baskHt and had trouble con­taining the Nu. 21 team's inside gamP. 
Manual Steering is confident as llrnv advance in to the next 
rou 1Hi'. but· aware of tlrn compe­tition lh at li(•s ulwad. 
"W 1\' re looking to 
ad v a 11 co 
und fr1ding good, but thor1• Hr<! 
llP\'l'r a 11 y g u it r a n ­
ll'ns," said Ilnnd rick. 
At tlw No. 22 spot. Sexual Frustration V lived up to its ranking wlwn it musdNI its way past SePking Employnrnnt and into tlw round of (,4 with a '.tl -14 win. 
..This was our most physical 
game yet," said Sexual Frustration V's Skv Owens. "They played a go;,d game. They came out wilh a good 2-3 zone on us which was a smart move on tlrnir part." 
LPd by Owens, Sexual Frustration V. with Peter Stuhldrcher, Kevin Hardv, Nik Green and Josh Brumm is con­
"We feel good -we 're pretty quick and we've picked up some size so we're excited lo play in the next round." 
Kevin Murphy Unleashed player 
fident about its chances of stay­inK alive in the coming rounds. 
"If you're nol confident you might as wtill not Im out here," said Owens. 
UnlPashrd, with Kevin Murphy, Jon Bevilacqua, Pat 
Maloblocki. Jeff Harms. Hyan Jochum and an injured Tim O'Brien unleashed its tough offense and tight del"t!nse on Ilung Jury to make its way iuto thP round of 64 with a 21­
1:i win. Unlnashed lead 11-5 at tlrn 


Bookstore Results for Tuesday APril 18. 2000 
Ten Deep def. Clock Management (21-19) 
Fast Eddie def. Options w/o a future (21-10) 
Joan van Haute def. Arabian Goggles (21-17) 
Unleashed def. The "hung" Jury (21-15) 
Nunc Dimittis def. Bizmark (21-3) 

Five Degree Guarantee def. Wham! Women's Crew (21-7) Pistol Packin Mammas def. J-bags (21-14) Double Down def. 145 (21-2) F-Bombs def. Fat men can't jump (21-6) Sexual Frustration V def. Seeking Employment (21-14) Guided by voices def. Bootie Wave (21-14) 
JOSE CUELLAR/ The Observer 
half, but I-lung Jury kept the game's v1irdict up in the air, coming to within three in the second half at 16-1 :-3. 
''They were prntty big and strong so it was a ruugh game," said Murphy, who lit up the eourt with nine points. "We feel good -we· re pretty quick and we've picked up some size so we're excited to play in the next round." 

Bookstore action h1~ats up as the round of 64 begins today on the Stepan courts. 
Gagnon celebrates birthday of beloved stadium 
In about livl' and a half' months. ont• of our clos1'st l'riPmls as 1\/otn• Damn !'ans will be turning 70. 
l>t•signl'd by IPgendary coach KnutP Hocknt•. l\otrP Dame 
Stadium  
l10sl!!d its  
first f'oolball  Ted Fox  
ganw on  
(kL 4. 11no.  
Tlw Irish lrnat Soutlwrn  Fox Sports ... Almost  
!\fotlwdisl  

20-14 that dav and ol'fic:iallv dr!dicatnd th,,-placP a w1wk· lat<'r with a 2(1-2 win oV<)r :'lavy. 
Now. of ,·ourso, thP stadium and tlw ar!'a around it look a litt!P diffPrnnt. Still, ii' you 're wondPring 
what tlrn spirit of Notre Dame is all about, you need look no farther than to this monunrnnl of collegiate sports and one of the people primarily responsi­ble for its daily operation. 
Cappy Gagnon has been coor­dinator of Stadium Personnd since 1996. His first memories of Notre Dame come from an early 1950s TV broadcast of a Notre Dame-Oklahoma game and what happened away from tlrn Iield of play. 
"They [the broadcastr1rsl pointed out that down in the end zone, in the tunnel, them was an ambulance, and the ambulance was facing out of the stadium. And they pointed out that there was a man in an iron lung ... in the back of the ambulance," Cappy said. 
Ilnre, Cappy explained the iron lung to me: because a vac­cine for polio, which is what this man suffered from, hadn't been developed yet, the iron lung was used to quarantine him to prevent the disease from spreading. 
''1-le's facing that way !towards Touchdown Jesus] looking in a mirror to see the game behind him because in an iron lung you can't look for­ward because it's in your way. And I remember them talking about it. And his name was Fred Snite," Cappy said. 
If you're thinking Fred Snite as in the Snite Museum of Art, you're right. 
A Notre Dame graduate, he was so moved by the spirit that seems to float up from the field that he wanted to watch a gamn i.n an iron lung by way of a mirror from an ambulance. 
Sure, he could've had a much better view in front of a TV screen, but the view wasn't the thing drawing him back to the house that Rockne really did build. 
"I got a call two years ago from Corby Hall. They had a priest in from Creighton, and they had him in to do a retreat for all the priests on campus. They told me that he'd been a Notre Dame fan since 1948, and [asked if I] could I give him a stadium tour," Cappy said. 
Cappy agreed right away. 
"And they said: 'But he's blind.' So I'm thinking what would you do to show a blind man Notre Dame Stadium. He'd never been here." Cappy said. 
"So I took him to the outside 
and had him feel the brick. I took.him in the stadium ... and
A Way to Peace, or 
walked in the locker room and had him feel Rockne's plaque, Gipp's plaque, the [plaques of
Peace is the Way? 
the] seyen Heisman Trophy 
winners... [We] hit the sign, 
'Play Like a Champion'." 
"So I'm doing all those things
CATHOLIC ... but then he said: 'There's 

one last thing I want to do.' I said: 'What's that?' He said: 'I wanna run the field.' 
"Even though he was about 75-years-old and without his sight, this priest just wanted to feel that turf going by under his feet and know that he was run­ning down the same field he dreamt about as a boy. 
"He starts announcing his run. And he said to me: 'Where am I'?' And r said: 'You're about at the 30.' So he goes: 'He's at the 30! He's at the 40! He's at the 50!' 
"Then, he had been running perfectly straight, then he starts zig-zagging." 
You can't tell me that there isn't something special going on in that stadium, even when the only noise is an aging priest reliving a moment from his childhood. 
Pointing to a sprinkler head in the grass just beyond the end line of the north end zone, Cappy told me that's where he stands during the games. 
"I think it's more than foot­ball," he told me at one point. 
As we walked back up the tunnel and I slapped the "Play Like a Champion Today" sign, I completely agreed. 
Perspectives on 

BECOME A COMIC 
R.O.T.C 
¦ 

. 
Why does Notre Dame have ROTC? 

. 
What does the Church teach about Just War Theory? 

. 
Should Christians participate in the US 1nilitary? 


These questions and more will be explored in a lecture by 
''War, Law, and Ethics" professors Todd David Whitmore and Fr. Michael Baxter, csc from the Theology Department. 
Refreshments and small group discussion will follow the lecture. All are invited to attend! 
7:30 PM WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19TH AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Sponsored by PAX CHRISTI-NOTRE DAME 
This discussion is encouraged by AMNESTY JNTERNATIONAL. 


, I 

page: 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 19, 2000 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Knish secures victory for Saiht Mary's over Albion College 


Atria Salon 
289-5080 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
~od.el.s :.1eed.ed. Io:r short. J:I.n,j_:r c-.:a.t.s -wome:../me:.. Io:r -t;:rn,1.II.IIl.g; cl.n,sses 

ti
·c:
,::, N 
LOW ! !STUDENT! 
IAIRFARESJ
E 
0 
! Europe •Africa •Asia •South America
C 
CD 
.W More Than 100 Departure Cities! JC Eurailpasses •Bus Passes •Study Abroad [ C 
.z ~ 
v., 
~ 
.5 .,,,,,._., student 
::z, 
.....-• universe 
a 
:, •corn 
IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT.
~ 
i.:
,::, 
..J 
8, 
! (ti 
www.StudentUniverse.com
(ti 
::J 
i E 800-272-9676
a, 
;;) 
al 

Please recycle The Observer. 

strong. with a 4-1 [r,ad in solid win in two sets. Thr. sets. the first set. Thl!Y won the womcrn took an oarly Ir.ad and Dun to an injury, Albion was 
J'irst set, but didn't lot go. unabln to l'inld a complete dropped thP­"I tried to change up the winning the team and Saint Marv's won noxt two sets sets (1-l . No. (J singles and No: 3 dou­
game to change the pace.

6-0 and 6-3. Natalin Cook blm; by dp,fault. 
B e c k y I used different hits, but lost a closn "I know il was going tu be a Krenrnr dom­it was frustrating. It was match playing close malch," head coach l)pn inated her No. 2 singles. Str.venson said. "Albion was
really a game ofstrength

opponent in Sho dropped second in conforence last year, No. 4 singles, ofmind." both sPls to her but Annie's game clinched thn defeating her opponent 7-G. match." 6-1 in both The Bollos· Thr. Bolles havn boosted
Annie Knish 

sets. The No. other loss canw thnir record to 1f,-4 ovnrall,
tennis player

2 doubles from freshman while Albion has droppt>d to 7­team, com-No. G singles 9. Tho Bc1lles will hav<' th<, posed of Kremer and Cook player Lindsay Mollan, who wenknnd orr bld'orn !'acing tame out strong and took a dropped hr.r match in two Wheaton Collegn on Monday. 


HOMES FOR RENT 
2000-2001 SCHOOL YEAR 
-Domus Properties has 3,4,5, and 8 bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 
Get a Shaven Geat, 2 Daytline I( on HUNKS
& tt tt,

5 0 \eS Spring ,Break! 
,. 

CVTV serves up Hot Fresh slices of "~eel" life and underground comedy!~ 
~ 
,, 
··;;-i•'\!%1ef, 

THE SHAVEN GOAT PICTIIRE COMPANY 
CVTV debuts these hilarious, twisted visions. 
cvrv journeyed v-,JtJi 5 HOTTIES on a ._ 
_sPR\~G BREAK 

., ",:

. ROADIR1P1 HUNK! 
CVTV caught \.. 
Send CVTViyiour videos! Matt Cedeno 
& Victor Webster Stupid College Trick Parties from 
Sketches & Stand-up Comedy "Days of Our Lives" 
Day-In-a-Life Journeys " Interviews of Campus Babes Colleaellfe. Full Onl ~' : 
For more info, e-mail: t:.1 • submissions@campusvibe.com CAMPusvrnE.coM 

By KATIE McVOY As.siswir Sp"m Ed.ire, 
The Saint Marv's tennis team uppc~d its le,igue n~cord to S-2 and broke its three­game losing streak as il defeated Albion Colleg11 6-3 Tuesday. 
The highlight of Tuesday's match vvas Anni.e Knish's game clinch­ing singles Saint Mary's 6 match that 
lasted almost Albion 3 thrne hours. Knish opPned the first set of lrnr No. 3 singles match with a three-point IP.ad. convincing most of the onlookers that it 
would bi; an easv match. The match provP.d to. be quite the conLrarv. 
"She -lmy opponent] just woke up and startPd tn run me around," Knish said. "I was feeding hPr the s;ime kind of ball the whole time." 
Knish's opponl\nl came back and tit>d the first set at five, and then again at six. Forced to play a tiebreaker, Knish rame through winning the first set 7-6. 
The second set was neck and neck from the opening serve. Knish dropped lhe set 6-7, forcing a third set. An anxious r.rowd looked on as Knish faced her opponenl a final time. After nearly three hours of play Knish returned her opponent's hit and won the set 7-5. winning the match. 
"I trird to chango up tho game to change the pace." Knish said. "I usfld different hits. but it was frustrating. It was really a game of strnngth of mind." 
Knish wasn't lhe only Bello to play a long match. No. I singles player Katie Vales also WPnt three sets in her match. She also camf1 out the vktor. 
Vales. who sncmrd to bn unable to control the first set. lost her first set 6-2. ShP­didn't let the first set tell the story. She took control of the 
gam!' and r:-amt' back to win 
the second and third sets 6-2 each. claiming the win for Saint Mary's. 
Knish and Vales didn't l'a.ir quitt> as well in doubles fol­lowing Vales' exhausting sin­gles run. Teamnd for No. 1 doublt>s. the women dropped their match in three sets. Knish and Vales came out 

Wednesday, April 19, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

-. i
TOM KEELEY 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD
FOURTH AND INCHES 
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
ACTION! I HAD A FUNN"i' _J DREAM AN HOUR oR TWO 8EFoRE WE SToPPED, MR. FRoDO. oR MAYBE IT WASN'T A DREAM. FUNN'f' IT WAS ANYW~-~-/ iZl~i~·  WELL, WHAT WAS IT? 1 HAVEN'T SEEN OR THOUGHT oF ANYTHIN& To MAkE ME SMILE StNCE WE LEFT LOTHLORIEN. I  CUT/ WHAT ARE "i'OU Two DolNG?! THOSE LINES AREN'T !N THE SCRIPT! J THE"i''RE IN THE 8001<. '  SoMESOD"i' COULDN'T GET ME YOU THA!llk CASTING THEM LATER? ON THE '-­PHONE. THIS ROPE I .,_---­SHOULD SE MADE oF ELFIN HITHLAIIII, BY THE WAY.'  

beam.1 @nd edu 


HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 2000 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Paloma Picasso, Dudley Moore, Jane Mansfield, Tim Curry, Eliot Ness 
Happy Birthday: Competitive desires will give you the edge this year. Now is the time to incorporate everything you've learned in tlie past to your future goals. You will have to be blunt with those who aren't up to speed. It will be a fast-paced year that requires ingenuity and the abili­ty to trunk quickly. Your numbers: 5, 19, 22, '27, 35, 39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This will not be your day if you insist on disagreeing with others. It is best to lock yourself into work or money­making ventures. Avoid spending money on entertainment or others. 
000 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Put all your efforts into getting ahead. Make those phone calls you have been putting off and talk to the indi­viduals who can help you achieve your goals. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You should be looking into ways of changing your image. You need to get into the groove and keep up with the times. Don't be afraid to spend some time and money on yourself. 
000 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your partner may not be predictable today. Do not confront people with ultimatums unless you're willing to suffer the consequences. This is not a good day to make changes. 00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may have a problem if you trust someone at work with your private thoughts or secrets. Be prepared to defend yourself when dealing with authori­ty figures or your boss. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You 
EUGENIA LAST 
will have to watch your cash today. Losses are likely. Children may be hard to deal with if you don't take the time to find out the source of their problem. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You will be emotional when dealing with matters concerning your personal life and your home environment. You may have to hold back your true feelings and just listen to the com­plaints of others. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Re­evaluate your position before you jump into things that may not tum out to be to your advantage. Difficul­ties with transportation or delays in shipments may be aggravating. 
000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): Opportunities to do things with children must not be turned down. You will learn a lot if you watch the way others handle situations. Don't lend possessions you are fond of. 
000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will not be that easy to deal with today. Business deals may not go the way you plan. Don't back yourself into a comer that will be costly to get outof.0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You will have the ability to talk circles around others. Present your ideas and get the approval to go ahead with your plans. Red tape may take more time than you anticipated. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Don't let others talk you into doing things that don't fit into your agen­da. You will not be happy if you allow others to manipulate you, and anxiety will lead to outbursts of temper. 00000 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
Bogus 6 Greeting with a smile 11 S.A.T. takers 
14 Chosen ones 15 "Cry, the Beloved Country" author 161oth­anniversary gift 17 [Hint] Apple on 
the head 19 Self center 20 Comparison 
figure 21 Lowest deck on 
a ship 22 Swear 23 VCR button 25 Water 
measurement 
27 It might keep a shepherd awake 30 Pollen producer 32 Old Ford 33 Symbol of freshness 35 Kind of key 38 Come out 40 Pitch 
42 The "greatest blessing" and the "greatest plague": Euripides 
43 Little belittlement 45 Vaudeville dancer's prop 46 Not born yesterday 48 String decoration 50 Hiker, in a way 52 Refuse 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 




ACREICRIER 
R A I N L O O S E 

A R I 0 F F T H E O U T S 
5 A L T 

METIAR-R I BES 
'A's's I 5 I C A A N 
-

N C O L O R J O K E S 
'f•HASTA•ILE 
~~mD E RM S N I T 
L E 5 F U N G I S O D A S 'o'N° 0 N E S R O C K E R 






AT T-0 TT ER 5 BALSA!. OSSA ¦ MAE A D O 5 0 F F T H E M E N D L E 
1 



5 E p E A L E Iu R G E S E N O R D Y E R 
Birthday Baby: You are a serious hard-hitting little tyke who is persistent
22 Mr. T's group 39 Foul years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 

and intent on following yOUI own path. You are charming and sociable and can win the favor of anyone who comes in contact with you. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
54 Tramp's partner 55 Walpurgis Night figure 
57 Jones of oidradio comedy 
61 "You here" 62 [Hint] Apple off the head 64 Annual awards giver 65 High points of a trip to South 
America? 66 Quartet member 67 A ship, to crew 
members 68 It raises dough 69 G.!. wear 
DOWN 
1 Sinn 2 What's more 3 Cordelia's father 4 Seafood dish 5 Busy person's 
abbr. 6 Copyists 7Wild 8 Football legend 
Graham 9 Hype 10 "Barbara (1966 hit)­11 [Hint] Apple in the head 12 Demanding 
standard 13 Buffaloes 18 Fanny Farmer 
treat 

Puzzle by Greg Slaples 
24 Slowly and 41 Image site 56 "M*A*S*H" star evenly 
44 Cuddles 
58 Dissolve 26 Base 47 Bearish 
59 Chili pot 
27 Squandered 49 Scheduled 60 Plug away
28 Sphere starter 50 Shuts (up) 62 Kind of station 
29 [Hint] Apple? 51 Solid ground Went ahead! 53 Midsection 63 AT&T rival 31 Classification 34 Superlative 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzlesuffix · 
are available by touch-tone phone: 36 Missouri River 
1·900-420-5656 (95it per minute).tribe 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 37 Card-carrying 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 

© 2000 Universal Press Syndicate

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address-------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 



Belles are served 
The Saint Mary's tennis team broke a three­game losing streak as they defeated A lbion College Tuesday. 
PORTS 
pages 22 

O
THE page 24 BSERVER Wednesday, April 19, 2000 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXIX 

Teams fall without star players Wojcik, Doherty 
By KERRY SMITH 
Spons Editor 
Some of Bookstore's top-rankt'd l(iams rould havP 11s1·rl a lit.tie lwlp from tlw nwn's baskl't.ha II (:oad1 ing staff TuPsclay. 
No. 2() Sho1·kpr and No. :rn WP'v,• (;01 Ynur Wojo. missing tlwir star playPrs Irish lrnad coaf'.11 Matt Doh1·rtv and assistant roach Doug \Vojrik, rPSfjPt'.liV(dy, i"PII to 1111ntnk!'fl tnums in round of' 128 action. 
Scrub Scouts. with Pat i\lokris, T ..I. Durkin, Sum Lnonardo. Jason llalv,•rson and NatP Fowlnr playNI likP anything hut scrubs wlwn thPy gaVl' llw No. 2<J !Pam a shork ol'its own with a 21-lh \\in. 
"It was a grPat gamP," FowlN said. '"\\"" play1id rPally good c1,,fPnsP and our shots 
just. kept. !'ailing." 
IJolwrty. who was unabk tD suit up !'or his Shock"r lP,t111 b(wat1s,, lw was out ol' to1\ 11 on a r<'r.ruiting trip. might not havP SPl'll his last action in this year's tournanwnt. 
" 11'\'P want to kn;>w if' llohPrtv wants to lw our ball boy," Durkin said. · 
Tim u11d(\rdogs l(•d by as many as l'ight in tlw sPconrl half' but ShockPr tightP1wrl up tlw ganw. roming to within !'our at 20-1 /, bl'f'ore Srrub S!'outs nailPd a jumpPr lo s1•curc tlw win. 
John lh'intz. Miki• ZingalP. Travis Kli1w. 1-:tl Wasilnwski and Luk" /\rrhibald lPamPd up for TPam Trnjan to upn1HI \\lp'vp (;01 Your Wojo 21-14. 
"WP playnl as a tPam out thPrP," said llnint.z. "EvPryono cam,, to play and \\'I' rnally hust.l(•d. Wn'n~ in prntty good shapP so WP st.ill havP our IPgs at tlw end of' tlw ganw which lrnlps us a lot." 
'1'(ia111 Trojan IPd tlrn Pntin: s1•co11d hair. Idling W<''VI' Cot Your Wojo l'Olll(' within two points at I (J-14 bd'on· going on a ;i-0 run cappnd by a steal and a f'ast brl•ak for llw winning scor(\. 
"We k111:w WP had a chanrt\ to win th1• gamn," said llnintz. "Wn thought wp'rf go prntty f'ar and we're just nxritrd to I)(' in th,• 1wxt round." 
No. 21 Manual StPl'ring. with Tori~ Weaver. Tract• llrn<lrirk. Dahx Marrs, Nirk lfornnl and Mo MacDonald w<•nt on (Tuis,, control to lmat Sons of 1\chtung and SPcurl' its spot in tlw round of' (,4. 
"W1\ play('(! a tough ganw, but tlwy playPd us tough too," said llcndrirk. Sons of' ,\chtung was out-siznd undtir tlw
... 
Keyplay.com's Cas Schneller looks to dish the ball Tuesday night during his team's victory over 5 Guys Who Score 
at Will ... Until Bridget's Closed Down. The round of 64 begins today at Stepan courts. 
see BOOKSTORE/page 21 
BASEBALL 

Irish dominate in doubleheader sweep of Chicago St. 
Sophomore Drew Duff start­gle in the first. started the Sflcond inning with The Irish offonsP provod to 
By BRIAN TRAVERS ed on the hill Matt Buchmeil~r and Mike a walk beforn stnaling sncond bP too much for Chicago Stall' 
Spom Writer for the Irish Game 1 Naumann both pitclwd score­and third. Nussbaum tlwn in game one. scoring 12 runs 
and earned Irish 12 less, hitless innings before smacked a triple to left to including a snvPn-run firth 
Irish pitchers got the job the win, handing the ball over to closer score O'Toole. Nussbaum tlrnn inning to heat the Cougars 12­done once again, allowing only striking out Cougars 2 John Corbin. Senior scored on a Jr!T Pnrconte sac­2. three runs as Notre Dame (28-six and righthander Corbin struck out rifice fly. Freshman Brian Stavisky 
9) took two games from extending his Game 2 four batters over the last two Nussbaum drove in O'TooiP startrd the fifth inning rally by Chicago State (14-15) Tuesday record to 3-1. innings for his ninth save or again in the fourth on a sacri­smashing his eighth honw run night at Eck stadium. He allowed Irish 4 the year. fico f1y. Jeff Fdker scored the over the right field wall. J\JtPr 
Four Irish pitclrnrs combined the Cougars Cougars 1 Matt Nussbaum provided game's last run on a loadol'f' Io ad in g llw b as c s by t h r n " to throw a one-hitter in game their only most of the offrnse for the home run in tho sixth inning. walks from Chicago StalP two as thr Irish defeatrd run, on their Irish, driving in two runs and Tim home run was F(dk!!r's Chicago State! 4-1. one hit. a Nicholas Gaitano sin-scoring another. Paul O'Tooln fourth of the ynar. see BASEBALL/page 20 
==-==============-==========================================================================================================-=---_ -_ -~--_ -_ -_ 
.., 


Men's Lacrosse Softball at Big East Championships Track and field 
1\Ji'''1 

vs. Villanova vs. Oakland (MI) '•t:;:;,:·,) Miami, i:la. at Burler Invite 
SPORTS £ 

Today, 3 p.m. Thursday, 4 p.m. Thursday-Sunday Sarurday, TBA 
•
ATA

... 
Baseball at Big East Championships Women's Lacrosse Rowing
~\I 

at Seton Hall ",:.::...:::~ Miami, Fla. vs. Columbia ar Midwest Sprints 
t 

Thursday, 5:05 p.m. Thursday-Sunday Saturday, I I :30 a.m. Saturday, TBA 
GLANCE • 





