

--------------------------------------------, 
OutKast scores 
Taking back the night? 
OutKast's latest release, Stankonia, may be 
This Sexual Assault Awarenss Week, The 
Tuesday
une of the best hip-hop albums to come out 
Observer takes a look at effarts to raise 
this year. 
awareness ·and stop rape on campus. 
NOVEMBER 14, 
Scene . page 13 
In Focus 
2000 
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. SS HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Russert discusses media errors in election 

Sanday: Alcohol, athletics factors of a rape-prone campus 
These factors included what guilt and force to coerce their er, often the most harmful atti­

By AMANDA GRECO 
Sanday referred to as the partners. tudes regarding rape are those News Writer 
"jock/macho culture" among "Americans struggle with a found within the administration. 
men that celebrates sex without sexual culture divided between Sanday noted that college 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's regard to how it is obtained. The Puritanical repression and administrations tend to silence have all the ingredients that alcohol subculture on campuses pornographic over-exposure," incidents of sexual assault in make for a "rape prone environ­nationwide facilitates males who Sanday said. "Alcohol and vio-order to "save face." 
ment," according to University encourage one lence bridge "They are more concerned of Pennsylvania professor Peggy another to get that division, with their alum and the board of Sanday. Sanday visited Notre a female especially on trustees," Sanday said. "The
"No one here is supposed 

Dame Monday to discuss the drunk, while college cam• image· of the institution matters components of rape prone cam­appealing to to be having sex, but puses." more than asserting any moral puses, including societal factors women who seemingly everyone is." Sanday authority." Sweeping the issues contributing to the perpetration drink to lose also found under the colleges' carpets does of rape and necessary changes their inhibi-that within nothing but create pain and an
Peggy Sanday

for the prevention of rape. athletic immoral atmosphere, Sanday Sanday's studies of American "Binge University of Pennsylvania teams and added. 
college campuses have deter­drinking professor fraternities, For a Catholic community to mined that predictors of rape leaves people homophobia knowingly create an immoral statistics include binge drinking, unable to often creates atmosphere greatly troubles 
NAOMI COROELLJThe Observer

the presence of all-male groups decide and unknowing of what a need for men to "prove" their Sanday who was raised by Holy 
Peggy Sanday discussed ways
and the importance of athletics they're doing," Sanday said. heterosexuality. Sanday con­Cross Sisters. Sanday knows aU to safeguard U.S. college cam­within the community, factors "Men take the stance that 'she cluded that for many college­too well the pain endured when puses against rape.whose prevalence in the Notre drugged herself; she is responsi­aged men. the sense of competi­instances of rape are silenced. 
sexual offense policies to be
Dame community raise a red ble for her condition."' However, tion and conquest makes for Her own conception was the 
enacted on college campuses
flag to Sanday. Sanday said that a recent study of convicted date indulgence without respect for result of an acquaintance rape 
across the country. Her two
the silence imposed by the rapists revealed startling statis­their sexual partners. Other fac­which forced her mother into books, "A Woman·s Scorn" andCatholic stance on sex perpetu­tics; 75 percent of convicted tors, such as a tendency to hiding. At the age of 14, Sanday 
"Fraternity Gang Rape" have
ates the sexual culture that con­rapists admitted to having pur­blame the victim or the belief narrowly escaped being the vic­opened the forum for discussiontributes to rape. posely intoxicated their dates in that men are innately driven to tim of gang rape. lt was not until of college sexual assault. 
Sanday highlighted main fac­order to have sex with them. rape, complicate the attitudes 1983 when a student confessed 
Open discussion is the best
tors evident in college communi­Some reported the use of "date our society holds regarding sex. to having been victimized that ties with high incidents of rape. rape" drugs, while others used On college campuses, howev-Sanday began her crusade for see SANDAY/page 4 By HELENA PAYNE 

News Writer 

The future of U.S. families and the voling process is at stake in the lengthy 2000 presidential elections, said Tim Russert, moderator of NBC's "Meet the Press" Monday. 
"Wake up, this is yotrr life and this is your country," said Russert to a standing-room-only crowd in Notre Dame's McKenna Hall. 
Russert said Election Day 2000 was exciting after a cam· paign season when many voters presented a disinterested atti­tude toward the election .. 
"It's refreshing for our democ­racy and inspiring," said Russert. "Every vote truly does count," Russert said. 
Russert commented that the 
U.S. was fortunate because, amidst the jokes about the situa­tion of the presidential election, the general mood of voters is still a relatively cahn one even if they are slightly anxious to know the outcome of the elec­tion. 
"We don't know who [the president is] going to be ... but the democracy stands tall and vibrant," said Russert. "You've got to love our founding fathers." 
However, recent problems in Florida have brought age-old concerns to the forefront of the election process, said Russert. Now people question the signifi­cance of the Electoral College versus that of the popular vote. Regarding the recount in Florida. the Secretary of State of Florida announced that all 67 coW1ties' votes must be handed in by 5 p.m. today. But if for some reason. the election in Florida is not decided officially, it could raise questions on Dec. 18 when the Electoral College meets. 
"Constitutional experts are having a field day with that," Russert said. 
Russert stated that now the nation is in "the sequel, Election II," but soon voters will demand a final decision about the elec­tion. 
Before Russert spoke. University President Father Edward Malloy jokingly held up a dry erase board like Russert used during the elections to keep track of electoral votes state-by-state. Russert respond­ed to Malloy's joke by pulling out a dry erase board of his O\HL 
However, Russert later said that the media's eagerness to discover the winner of the elec­tion through exit polls did play a large role in the inaccuracy of election reports. 
"It looked like Gore had a 
see RUSSERT/page 4 



INSIDE COLUMN 
The trouble with dating 
I think that I've finally come to the conclu­

sion that relationships and college don't mix. 
I admit, the temptation is frequently there. 
especially when you catch eyes with some 
attractive member of the opposite sex in your 
philosophy class or that 
special someone that you 
always see in the dining 
hall. 
Everyone at one time or 

another feels the need to 
get some extra lovin'. but 
the question that I've 
asked myself these last 
two years at Notre Dame 
is, it really worth it? The 
more I think about it, the 
more I think I would have 
to answer that question 
with a resounding "no". 
As of late, I've witnessed 

so much drama in the 
relationship department that it's becoming 
really sickening. And then I thought, if this is 
happening to me, how many other people are 
going through the sam(\ probll'ms'? 
Let's take the breakup as a prime example. Think of all the energy one goes through thinking of the best way to dump someone, while letting down the person as nicely as possible. Heplaying the perfect break-up dia­logue over and over in your head can become liresome. Then comes the anxiety of the actu­al approach. This can either break or make the chances for a meaningful friendship afterwards. 
What a waste. I cannot believe that my friends (myself included) spend so much time preoccupied with such petty and insignificant details. Chances are we won't think twice about the person we once thought we cared so much about when a few months pass. 13etter yet, when we graduate their memory will probably become a minor blip on the col­lege time-line. 
When we meet people in college, we're probably not going to marry them-they're just temporary acquaintances that come and go. While some may prove to become promis­ing friendships, most, in all likelihood will probably not. There are a handful of relation­ships at Notre Dame that are long-term and fairly serious, and there are even a few cou­ples who are engaged and may plan to marry in the future. 
I find this hard for me to imagine myself in Lhis position since I haven't even yet begun to understand myself. How can I possibly know what I want in someone else, when I don't even know what I want for myself? When I think about how much I've changed in the course of a year, or for that matter, in a few months, it is scary to imagine being in a rela­tionship that is supposed to be based on con­sistency and reliability. 
All the time wasted on reflecting, thinking, arguing, and going through emotional changes doesn't all completely go to waste, I suppose. Every experience makes us who we are. and makes us stronger and more ratio­nal adults. But the simple fact remains, most relationships at the college level amount to little but annoying distractions and unneces­sary time and effort spent on a t1eeting illu­sion. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maureen Smithe Sam Derheimer Killin Turner Chris Scott Myra McGriff Graphics 
Sports Katie Annis Molly McVoy Production Viewpoint Kerry Smid, 
Kure Bo1parJ Lab Tech Pet1:r Richardson 

The Obm'-'cr {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c,u:i:pt Juring ex;am a11J va.caclun periods. The Observer is a Olt:"illbcr ofthe ,,~~ocia.tC'J l1rC'u, All reproJu.:don right) are reKrvcd, 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
. 
Play: "Love's Fire," 7:30 .Concert: SMC's Music . Concert: ND Band pre-. Concert: ND Faculty p.m., Washington Hall Department presents . sents "Princes of Babylon." Chamber Music, 2 p.m. 

. 
Film: "East is East." "Spirit of Baroque," 7:30 10 p.m., Alumni Senior Annenberg Auditorium 


10:30 p.m., DeBartolo 155 Little Theatre Bar . Concert: ND Brass 
. Film: "Scary Movie," 8, .Exhibit: Guild of Saint Ensemble, 8 p.m., Basilica 
10:30 p.m.. DeBartolo 101 Dominic by Eric Gill, of the Sacred Heart O'Shaugnessy Galleries, all day 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Students claim new FAFSA drug question unfair 
WASIIINGTON, D.C. 
of Oct. 15, 8.6 million students applied 
Students applying for financial aid for aid this year. But as a consequence this year will be denied federal money of the new law, 1,311 of' those stu­if they have been convicted of drug dents have been declared ineligible for crimes. While the drug question added aid and 5,617 must completn a wait­to applications in July has not affected ing period before they can receive fed­many George Washington University eral loans. The waiting period ­students, some say it is an unfair rule. which a student can determine on the 
Question 28 or the 104-question FAFSA Question 28 Worksheet avail­2000-01 FAFSA asks if the aid appli­able onlinn -depends on the number cant has ever been convicted of selling and nature of a student's drug convic­or possessing illegal drugs. tions. 
The question is required by an "There's not widespread students amendment to the 1998 Higher going without aid," McCree said. "The Education Act passed in July, disquali­bad people," said Sam McCree, presi­number it affects is a specific number fying applicants who have been con­dent of the George Washington chap­or honest. low-income groups." victed of drug offenses. The new law ter of Students for Sensible Drug Only adult convictions in a l'edcral or has been criticized by Students for Policy. "There's no reason they should state court are counted against u stu­Sensible Drug Policy, a national group be treated that way." dent. Convictions before a student that calls the provision unfair and dis­Stephanie Babyak, spokesperson for turns 18 cannot be counted against criminatory. "These people are not the Department of Education, said as them. 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY 
School of the Americas under protest 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
Ten members of Veterans for Peace and their friends and family left yesterday on a road trip to Fort Benning, Ga .. where they will join thousands of others in a protest against the U.S. Army School of the Americas. The School of Americas Watch West. an organization that seeks to shut down the infamous school. organized a "peace bus send-off' event yesterday at the Berkeley Universalist Unitarian Fellowship. Called the "School of Assassins" by opponents. the School of Americas is a 
U.S. Army training school that instructs Latin American and other foreign soldiers in combat skills. commando tactics, counter-insurgency and anti-narcotics opera­tions. "[It is a] key instrument in preparing Latin American countries to cooperate with the U.S. drug interdiction efforts," according to the training base's Web site. Protests against the school began in 1990, the year School of the Americas Watch was founded, and the number of protesters has grown from just 10 at the first protest to 12,000 last year. 

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
20 shots send student to hospital 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

A University of Michigan engineering sophomore remained in critical condition Sunday night at the University Hospital after consuming 20 shots of Scotch whiskey in 10 minutes early Saturday morning, accord­ing to the Ann Arbor Police Department. Byung-Soo Kim had a blood alcohol content of 0.39 percent-almost four times the legal drunken driving limit of 0.10 percent­after being transported to the hospital from a party. Ann Arbor police department ofTicer Eric Bowles found Kirn and another male student unconscious in a buck bed­room of the apartment where they were attending a party after one of' the party goers requested an ambu­lance. Kim's face was blue and he was not breathing. Bowles immediately began cardiopulmonary resuscita­tion and both men were taken to the emergency room. "This type of drinking isn't necessarily about a rite of passage or being a young adult," said interim dean of' students Frank Cianciola. "Students have to realize the results of this kind ofdrinking." 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWe.uhcr l'6rocast for daytime conditions aoo high temper.itures 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 14. 
!
Wedn~sday 
~ Thurs~ay Friday) Satur~ay 


Gil 2000 AccuW ..ther, Inc. cow WARM STATIONARY 
,.( @'"Uftcb D D D D D D 
High Low Showen Rein T••tarm• Flurrltlli Snow loo Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudv
Sun(fay
) ~.,_,~..,.~ ,...
):.} . V --..---,..,, 
\ 
,_,J; 

Atlanta 56 34 Las Vegas 53 39 Portland 47 35 Baltimore 54 36 Memphis 50 32 Sacramento 49 39 Boston 53 43 Milwaukee 39 28 St. Louis 45 31
q,~,~4.c@Q ~ ~ u 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurrie, Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 41 28 New York 54 41 Tampa 75 49 Via A$$~,at.ad P,ess Gtaphie!sNsr Houston 62 43 Philadelphia 54 37 Washington DC 56 · 36 
Tuesday, November 14, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Obscene calls threaten SMC 
By ALICIA ORTIZ 
News Writer 
Tori Neer answcr<'d the phone like normal in her dorm room one morning. Hearing two rings, she assumed iL was an off-cam­pus call. Teri was not suspicious when the caller proceeded to ask her questions for a survey. 
"It was 8 a.m. [and] he said that be was doing a survey," N11er. a Saint Mary's sophomore, said. "He asked general questions 
to his next vic­tim. According to Richard Chlebek, director of security at the College, phone calls like these have been happening for years. Sometimes the caller claims to be proctoring a survey but it can quickly turn ugly and abusive. 
With the heightened concern regarding sexual assault on cam­pus, obscene phone calls are often overlooked as a different form of assault. Neer, however, has not been the only student to recieve such offensive phone calls. A Saint Mary's sophomore who asked to remain anonymous related a more chilling encounter. 
"It was really late at night. I had already been sleeping," she said. "The phone rang, and it was a double off campus ring. I thought it was my fiance calling from home. I started talking to 
@ 
f~lll 0~1111$ 
LENDE:R 
identify the caller before answer­ing the phone, however. this is not an option for Saint Mary's students. 
"If the students had caller ID, students could identify calls before answering the phone," Chlebek said. "Students are trust­ing and do not think that the call could be obscene, which leads into that kind of call." 
However, Chlebek is confident that Lhe increased number of reports will lead to a reduction in the number of obscene phone calls made to Saint Mary's stu­dents. 
"It is important to raise aware­ness and reduct> the number of calls if students hang up and report the calls," Chlebek said, "Flyers are put out to encourage reporting these calls," said Chlebek. 
Telecommunications at Saint Mary's also had advice for stu­dents regarding procedure after an obscene phone call has been received. 
"!lung up antl du nut give a reaction," said Sandy Handley. telecommunications coordinator. "They will get tired and eventual­ly quit calling all together. The caller is just looking for a reac­tion," said Handley. 
Handley also reported that Saint Mary's is taking steps to reduce the number of obscene phone· calls by eliminating the sequential numbers in each of the dorms. The renovation of Regina Hall over the summer has introduced a new system that has altered and scattered the phone numbers throughout the donn in random order, so that callers cannot call up and down the halls, as in Neer's case. 
Handley also said that in the future, office numbers will be mixed with residence hall num­bers so that the faculty and administration can help monitor and intervene in cases ofobscene callers. 

Snite presents exhibit 
by artist, author Eric Gill 
Special to The Observer 
An exhibition of more than 100 works by British sculptor, engraver, typographic design­er. and writer Eric Gill opened Sunday in the O'Shaughnessy Gallery of the University of Notre Dame's Snite Museum of Art. The exhibition. which runs until Feb. 4. includes works from the Hesburgh Library's Eric Gill Collection as well as works on loan from the Harry_ Ransom Humanities Research Center at the University of Texas at Austin. 
In conjunction with the Snitc exhibition, the Hesburgh Library's department of spe­cial collections will host a rare books exhibition entitled "The !found. the Cock, and the Monk: A Talc of St. Dominic's Press. the Golden Cockerel Press, and the Career of Eric Gill," That exhibition will open Nov. 17 (Fri.) at 4 p.m. in the Special Collections Room of the Hesburgh Library 

with  a  lecture  on  "Hilary  
Pepler  and  St.  Dominic's  
Press"  by Michael Taylor,  

author and rare bookseller from Norfolk, England. A reception will follow. Taylor's lecture i's a component of an international conference, enti­tled "Eric Gill and the Guild of St. Dominic," which will be held at Notre Dame Nov. 16­19. 
Gill, who died in 1940, was famous for designing such ele­gant typefaces as Perpetua, Gill Sans Serif. Joanna, 

Bunyan, and Pilgrim. He also earned international acclaim as a sculptor, reviving an ancient technique of diect carving in stone rather than using preparatory clay mod­els. He carved the stations of the cross for London's Westminster Cathedral and the bas-reliefs "Prospero and Ariel'' over the main entrance of Broadcasting House in London and "The Creation or Adam" in the lobby of the council hall of the Palace of' Nations at Geneva. He and Hilary Pepler founded St. Dominic's Press in 1915, pro­ducing many of the books, posters. broadsides. pam­phlets, and wood engravings on display in the exhibitions. 
St. Dominic's Press attract­ed a wide variety of artisans and intellectuals who soon formed the Guild of. St. Dominic. They shared with Gill a distinctively Catholic vision of the integration or prayer, work, art, politics, and domestic life. This vision informed most of Gill's writ­ing, including his controver­sial essays, "Typography" and "Dress" and his books. "Christianity and Art," "Work and . Property," and "Autobiography." 
The Snite Museum is open Tuesday through Wednesday from 10 a.m.-4 p.m., Thursday through Saturday from 10 a.m.-5 p.m., and Sunday from 1-5 p.m. The museum is closed on Mondays and holidays. Admission is free. 
him, but he was wh.ispering and it started to sound suspiciolls." 
The then-freshman became more and more frightened when the caller would not let her hang up the phone. When she finally managed to hang up on him, she immediately called her boyfriend.hoping it was just a joke, To only confirm her fear, her boyfriend pleaded innocence and denied making the call. 
Such phone calls are placed under the legal category of 'mis­cclJaneo us offenses' which 

like mv name and age. He asked if I had a 
"ft was 8 a.m. [and] he 

boyfriend. Then 
the questions said that he was doing a 
got really per­survey. He asked general sonal and 
questions like my name

obst.:ene." 
and aqe . ... Then the

A.c; Neer hung up her phone, questions got really she could hear 
personal and obscene.''

the phone ring in the next room, as the Terri Neer 
caller moved on Saint Marv's sophomore 
includes 12 different offenses, ranging f r. o m 
unwanted guests to p a n t y raids. The obscene and annoy­ing phone calls make up 75 per­cent ol' all violations under this overall cat­
egory. Even though these calls make up the bulk of offenses, almost none of the calls· are reported. 
"Most students don't report these calls," Chlebek said. "They will admit not reporting them. Mostly freshmen report these calls, while upperclassmen tend Lo hang up and forget about it." 
Chlebek has a number of dif­ferent strategies to reduce the number of obscene calls on cam­pus. A student should record the time and date of the call and include what was said for future reference. If another call occurs, Security, with the help of Ameritech, can compare the data from previous calls to track a sin­gle caller. 
Perhaps the obvious solution to obscene phone calls would be to 

New Arrivals 
Two new AT~s on campus! 

Other ATM Locations University of Notre Dame Campus Locations: Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, Reckers, Grace Hall, and North Dining Hall. In addition. there are ATMs at all 
branch locations and Ho!,v Cross College. 
Campus Branch Locations 
Douglas Road Lourdes Hall -Saint Mary's Campus 
219/239-6611 www.ndfcu.org 800/522-6611 
'9 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 
lmltp~ndent of lh~ Universil)' 

Sanday 
continued rrom page 1 
prevention for rape on college campuses. Sanday said. It is the only way to provide proper education. Establishing strong definitions as well as regula­tions for sexual offenses and enforcing punishment is imper­ative, Sanday said. Sanday also urged all worncn who are vic­timized take action. Whether they turn to their college's_ administration, a newspaper or the police, Sanday feels that silence only serves to perpetu­ate the ignorance regarding rape. Discourse is the best defense. 
However, Sanday fears that discourse in the Notre Dame community is too limited. 
"Thorn is a serious problem here. You don't talk about sex at the risk or being expelled." Sanday joked. "No one here is supposed to be having sex, but seemingly everyone is," she added. Sanday went on to tell how the moral imperative of Catholic institutions can leave both sexes ignorant. leading to passivity in females and com­petitive attitudes in men. Sanday stressed the impor­tance of teaching safe sex and developing new ways to think about sexuality in order to guard against disease, rape and pregnancy. 

Sanday concluded her lecture by urging Notre Dame students in attendance to ·find a viable way to open discussion and fur­ther education on what Sanday sees as a very sheltered and vulnerable campus. 
Russert 
continued from page 1 
pretty comfortable margin in 
Florida." said Russert. "[The 
medial was wrong, not once, but 
twice," said Bussert. 
!fr said that the media has re­
established its credibility with 
viewers by apologizing to the 
nation and by offering hope that 
the nation will eventually be able 
to move past the WOO presiden­
tial elections. 
"I have great faith that we'll get through this," said Rus.sert. 
However, Russert warned that when the election issues are resolved and the nation observes the next president's inauguration, a new flood of issues would sur­face and the president would confront many challenges. 
One of the forthcoming issues is dealing with the current Soria! Security system. Russert explained in great detail the com­plexities of the current sysh~m and how the costs of Social Security will grow to $5 trillion in the future. 
"II' you don't deal with Social Security, you can't protect the long tenn solvency of the United States," Russert said. 
He said a bipartisan plan could alleviate some of the concerns about Social Security. 
"It's very doable," said Russert. 
Russert stressed his view that the most important issue of the nation lies within the family. 
"We are all products of where we came from," said Russert. 
He said his dad, who fought on World War II, worked two full­time jobs while Russert was growing up. Russert said his father's "mission" was to ensure 
that Russert received a good edu­
cation to prepare him for the 
ruture. 
"I know that influences me. I 
know that affects me," said 
llussert. 
He gave statistics about how young uneducated and jobless parents who have children are more likely to be in poverty. Russert said the growing number uf people in this situation con­cerns him and should concern all pPople. 
"This is not about Murphy 
Brown ... I'm talkillg about kids 
having kids," said Russert. 
"It stacks all the odds against that baby," said Husserl. 
Russcrt pointed out several issues against which the U.S. fought such as government­instituted ideologies like fascism and Communism and more domestic concerns like choles­terol, cancer and drunk driving. 
"Behavior modification, we know it works and yet we have a problem saying there's some­thing wrong in America." said Russert. 
However, Hussert said that even though the U.S. has some problems, there are ways to remedy the situation such as through prov\ding quality edu­cation to children. 
"The schools arc worth going to," Russert said. 
Russert praised the Alliance for Catholic Education program that sends college graduates to under-resourced Catholic schools in the South to teach for two years while earning a mas­ter's degree. 
"That's a stop gap measure, so necessary, so important," said Russert. 
Russert lectured for the new Jack Kelly and Gail Weiss lee­ture series in journalism and poli­ism. tics. Both Kelly. a Washington "Meet the Press" is the most­lobbyist and former aide to watched Sunday morning public Presidents Honald neagan and alfairs program and the longest George H. W. Bush attended the running television program in lecture with his wife, Weiss, history. The show recently cele­Democratic staff director of' the brated its 50th anniversary and 



U.S. House of Representatives Russert, "master of the inter­under the Education and view," according to University Workforce Committee. The two President Father Edward Malloy. awarded Bussert with a plaque to has been its moderator for ni1rn honor his commitment LO journal-years. 

Dominator 

Large One Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
Every Day Specials
Bad·Anc11. 


$7.99 Large One Topping before 9 pm
Good Pina· 

$6.99 Large One Topping after 9 pm $11.99 -2 Large One Topping $8.99 Dominator One Topping $14.99 -2 Dominator One Topping 



271-0300
/ 

Call today and 
11am-2am sun-thurs mention this ad!! 
11 am-3am fri-sat 



ATION 
Tuesday, November 14, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Barak seeks summit: Prime Minister Ehud Barak hopes to return to the Camp David understandings with the Palestinians and is maintaining a policy of restrained response to violence to secure another sum­mit. a senior Israeli official said Monday. Gunmen ambushed three Israeli vehicles in separate attacks on l'vionday, killing four Israelis. More than 200 people have died in two months of' violence, the vast majority Palestinians. 
Zanzibar election official bombed: 
Attackers lobbed a bomb-Monday into the bedroom or a senior Zanzibar election onicial. seriously injuring him, police said. The attack was the fifth in Zanzibar since Oct 29 general elections marred by violence, missing ballots and allegations of police intimidation. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Stamp cost raised: For the second time in as many years, Americans are being asked to spend a penny more to mail a letter. First-class stamps will cost 34 stamps and other postal service rates will increase. but 20-cent post­cards will remain unchanged. The price hikes are likely to take effect in early January. 
Clinton restricts Alaska logging: 
The Clinton administration on Monday expanded a plan to restrict logging, mining and road building on some of the nation's most pristine and remote national forest land. The plan, which still could be revised, would protect 58.5 million acres, an area nearly the size of Oregon that encompasses almost a third of all national forest land. The major change from the original proposal announced in May was the inclusion of 9.3 million acres in the Tongass National Forest in Alaska. "There are certainly landmark events in the history of conservation -this clearly is one of those landmark events_," said Jim Lyons, the Agriculture Department underseqetary. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Indiana man found dead: An 80-year­old man accused of stealing more than $1.6 million from the Jay School Corp. was found dead in his garage of an apparent suicide. Ray Dunn was found Tuesday night in the garage of his home in Beverly Shores in northwest Indiana. Porter County Coroner John Evans said Dunn's body was found in a vehicle parked in the garage. Police say Dunn took his own life, but further details were not released. Dunn's death came two days before he was scheduled to plead guilty to four counts of theft in Jay Circuit Court. 
Market Watch 11 /13 

DO\V/ 
10,517.25 -85.70 ­

]ONES 
Composite Volume, NIA 
5s3;' ,. 


Nasdaq: 2966.72 -62.27 


S&P 500: 1351.26 -14.72 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE INTEL corn> (INTC) • l.12 +1.1') 38.19 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) ,0.63 ,0.31 ,OJS NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ) -2.36 -1.69 ?a.or, WORLDCOM INC (WCOMJ +5.6K +O.tiH 16,j8 URACLECORP (ORCI.) "2.70 ~O.(i~ 24.75 

Associated Press 
The· fight for the White House tumbled into the courts Monday as a trans­fixed nation witnessed the historic entanglement of presidential politics and the judiciary. George W. Bush fought on two fronts to block recounts that threatened his 388-vote lead in Florida, while Al Gore said neither man should prevail from "a few votes cast in error." 
Amid a whirlwind of political and legal intrigue, Bush's lawyers failed to win a court order barring manual recounts in Florida -'-a state whose 25 elec­toral votes will almost cer­tainly determine the 
COLOMBIA 
nation's 43rd president. A federal judge rejected the Bush injunction request, and his team was deciding whether to appeal. 
Separately, the state's top elections official -a Republican who cam­paigned for Bush -said she would end the recounting at 5 p.m. Tuesday. "The process of counting and recounting the votes cast on Election Day must end," said Secretary of State Katherine Harris. Gore immediately appealed the ruling, making his first major legal push, and Bush joined the case on behalf of Harris. 
"The vice president basi­cally said we should 

ignore the law so he can overturn the results of this 
election,"  said  Bush  
spokeswoman  Karen  
Hughes.  

As new vote totals drib­bled in from scattered counties and recounts were under consideration in other close-voting states, Gore told reporters outside the White House, "I would not want to win the presidency by a few votes cast in error or mis­interpreted or not count­ed, and I don't think Governor Bush wants that either." 
Bush made no public appearances at his Texas ranch Monday. He did answer reporters' questions there on Saturday. 
"While time is important, it is even more important that every vote is counted and counted accurately," the vice president said in his first remarks in five days on the improbably knotted race. 
"What is at stake is more important than who wins the presidency," he said. "What is at stake is the integrity of our democracy." 
Donald Middlebrooks, a federal judge appointed by President Clinton, predicted the struggle would continue past his rejection of the Republicans' recount injunction request. "I am not under an illusion I am the last word on this," he said, "and I am rather grateful for that." 

Troops encamp Putuayo rebels 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA 
The army said Monday that it has killed 22 rebels in a campaign to wrest control of a southern cocaine­producing province from rebels who have paralyzed it with blockados for weeks. 
Supplies of food and medicine in Putumayo have dwindled since the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia. or FARC, began barring traffic in the province in late September. 
Vehicles violating roadblocks have been torched by the rebels, who have been battling both government troops and right-wing paramilitary gunmen. many of them former soldiers. 
In a sign it is moving to break the rebel stranglehold. the army said a convoy of 18 trucks -escorted by combat helicopters and guarded by some 600 soldiers -arrive Sunday in one of Putumayo's main cities, Puerto Asis, with loads of supplies. 
Because of the blockade, the mili­tary had been delivering supplies by plane to Puerto Asis and ferrying them to outlying areas by helicopter. 
The army will deploy more forces to the province in the coming days to "return calm to Putumayo, eliminate the armed blockade and support the manual eradication of coca," said Eduardo Pizano. a senior official in President Andres Pastrana's office. 

In addition, a planned anti-drug offensive in Putumayo by two battal­ions of troops who are being trained by elite U.S. soldiers could begin as early as next month. according to 
U.S. officials. 
The rebels have threatened to maintain their stranglehold on Putumayo unless Pastrana backs off his plan for the anti-drug offensive. 


SEIUAl ISSAUlT AWARENESS WEEK 
MoN,Nov.I3 
TUE s, Nov. 14 
WEn,Nov.15 
THURS, Nov. 16 FRI, Nov. 17 
SAT, Nov. I8 


Peggy Sanday Lecture "Rape­
Prone vs. Rape-Free Catnpus 
Cultures" at 7:30 ptn in IOI 
Debartolo Hall 

Katie Koestner lecture "No Yes" 
at 7:30 ptn in the Hesburgh 
Library Auditoriutn 

Panel ofSurvivors at 7:00 ptn in 
the Montgotnery Theater 
Group Prayer at 7:30 ptn at the Grotto · 
Skit "When a Kiss is NotJust a 
~iss" at 5:30 pn1 at the Library Auditoriutn 
Princes of Babylon Concert at Alutnni-Senior Club at 10 ptn $3 for ND/SMC students, $5 for non-student's tickets available at LaFortune inforn1ation desk 
www. n d. e du/,..,j schuy1 e / c . gif 
Tuesday, November 14, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Experts: Geriatric psychiatrists rare in U.S. nursing hollles 
Associated Press  are not in any way prepared to take care of mental health  salaries -which means staff training on day-to-day han­ First on his agenda: violent outbursts and evening agita­ his stomach and thus agitated him again.  
problems," said Dr. WilliamCAMBRIDGE, Md. Reichman, president of theIt's Dr. Allan Anderson's American Association forweekly visit to the nursing Geriatric Psychiatry. Thehome's special dementia unit, group is beginning a campaignand problems await: Someone to change that by modelinghit a nurse. One woman care · on practices like abruptly pinches another Anderson's.patient's face and yells curses. Nursing homes were set upi\nother breaks into loud, to treat chronic physical prob-gasping sobs for no apparent 1ems, not the explosion of reason. Agitation keeps still Alzheimer's, other dementiasothers awake all night. and depression accompanyingAnderson is a rarity: A geri­the nation's booming elderlyatric psychi­population.atrist Typically,employed to "These are largely nursing  dling of demented patients tion, which leaves Alzheimer's isn't common. patients walking the halls all A survey of 900 nursing night. Check for a urinary home directors in six states tract infection, Anderson suggests facilities themselves orders. Nursing home doctors see a big need for mental seldom test for them unless a h e a I ~t h resident improvement: complains. Half termed "You've got to do more But dement­inadequate ed patientsthan just write the the frequency c a n ' ttypical Alzheimer'sof their explain homes' psy­prescription and leave. symptoms, chiatric con­so they oftenYou've got to have an sultations. In lash out orongoing relatioship." one-fourth of become agi­rural nursing t a t c d  One frail lady can't take these popular Prozac-like anti­depressants because they cause weight loss in the elder­ly. Instead he tries an older antidepressant that causes weight gain. And some Alzheimer insomniacs are about to try Anderson's new experiment to sec if light ther­apy will help them sleep. Then it's time for staff train­ing on nonmedical ways to keep demented patients calm. something Medicare doesn't pay for but that Anderson and Chesapeake Woods consider  
care .regu­larly fur nursing home resi­dents like t h c s e because he is specially trained in  .forgotten psychiatric hospitals ... They are not in any way prepared to take care ofmental health problems." Dr. William Reichman  home doc­tors are pri­mary care physicians with little mental­health train-i n g Reichman  homes, direc­Dr. Allan Anderson instead . tors reported something ageriatric psychiatristthat psychia­simple trists were antibiotic never called may solve. to their facilities. Down the hall, Anderson dis­"You're entitled to better covers one woman's memory care than this. We all are, as a is declining not from dementia society," Reichman said. but because 'the oxygen mask  crucial. Distract the yelling Alzheimer's patient, for exam­ple, and she'll forget why she was mad without anyone get­ting hurt. The geriatric psychiatry association is writing the first nursing-home mental health guidelines and searching for  
treatments said, whopresident of American Associationto calm, thus oftenfor Geriatric Psychiatryeven pre­don't know vent, such about new problems. treatments Although that help up to 80 percent of the such patients without sedatingnation's 1.6 million nursing them into zombies.  What docs a nursing home psychiatrist really offer'? Follow Anderson at the Chesapeake Woods Center in this Eastern Shore town, where he's something of a detective ­because demented patients can't tell you what's  for her sleep apnea doesn't fit, not giving her enough air. Then he's got to juggle medi­cines. Some newer antipsy­chotic drugs like Risperdal and Zyprexa can lower Alzheimer's agitation without the sedation or side effects of  ways to help facilities pay for better care. There are some simple fixes, Reichman sug­gests: If a home needs six nurses, make sure two have mental health backgrounds. Next, the association plans a consumer campaign teaching  
home residents have a mental illness, mostly dementia or depression, experts say few  Many homes will seek spe­cial psychiatric consultations for a very ill patient, but that  bothering them. "You've got to do more than just write the typical  older Haldol. The epilepsy drug Depakote can calm combative  families how to choose care. "Most people when they visit a nursing home don't think to  
nursing homes provide proper psychiatric care crucial to seniors' quality of life. "These are largely forgotten  can take weeks. And nursing homes are suffering a severe shortage of nurses and aides -largely because fast-food  Alzheimer's prescription and leave," he said. "You've got to have an ongoing relationship. You've got to hunt the under­ Alzheimer's patients, but while Anderson was on vaca­tion, one patient was wrongly switched to a similar drug  ask, 'If my mother gets agitat­ed or combative, to what extent are you prepared to manage that?'" Reichman  
psychiatric hospitals.... They  restaurants  can  pay higher  lying problem."  called Depakene that irritated  said. "They should. It's key."  

a 

ARTHURANDERSEN 
Meet. Greet. And eat. 
Assurance Business Consulting Corporate Finance eBusiness Human Capital Legal Services Outsourcing Risk Consulting Tax Services 

Interested in a career at Arthur Andersen? Want an internship next summer? 
Join us at our "Meet the Firm!" event on November 28. We'll present descriptions of what we do-in all our services. Come learn about exciting opportunities at one of the world's leading professional services firms. 
Meet the Firm Night! 
Auditorium Center for Continuing Education Tuesday, November 28 
6:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. 

Please bring an updated resume. And bring your appetite-we'll have pizza and. refreshments! 
www.arthurandersen.com 

Note: The services offered in particular areas may depend on local regulations. In some locations. legal and/or tax services are provided by Andersen Legal, the international network of law firms that is associated with Andersen Worldwide SC. 
Arthur Andersen refers to the U.S. firm of Arthur Andersen LLP and other members of the Arthur Andersen global client service network. © 2000 Arthur Andersen. All rights reserved. 


THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON 
GAV AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 

THE STANDING (OMMITTE ON GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 
IS HOSTING A PANEL DISCUSSION ENTITLED 

HOMOSEXUALITY AND THE FAMILY 
IN THE 

HESBURGH CENTER AUDITORIUM AT 
7:30 P.M.· ON 

WEDNESDAY,NOVEMBER15 
PRESENTERS: 
FR. DAVID BURRELL, C.S.C. 

NANCY AND HANK MASCOTT, FROM PFLAG MICHIANA AND TWO STUDENT MEMBERS OF THE 
STANDING COMMITTEE 

DISCUSSION WILL BE FOLLOWED BY A 
9:00 PM RECEPTION IN THE HESBURGH 
(ENTER GREAT HALL, WITH FO.OD AND DRINKS. 


Tuesday, November 14, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 

INFORMATION MEETINGS 
7 p.m., Wed., Nov. 15 in Hesburgh Auditorium, ND or 6 p.m. Thurs., Nov. 16 in Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall Saint Mary's College 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College i.n Cochin, India, focusing on the Asian world 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements 
Opportunity for travel and study in many countries of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Europe 
-1x1~ 


GERMANY 
Military 01ourns cable car tragedy 
Karen Kearney Filkil, is a After hearing about the acci­

. U.S. officials 
civilian who works for the Air dent in the mountain tunnel.remember lost Force's Warrior Preparation Merkel's 8-year-old son American soldiers Center in Germany. Alastair recalled a trip to the 
Despite being told that their Canary Islands he took with 

Ass.ociateJ Press son and his l'iancee wern seen his mother and Mrs. boarding the doomed cable Goodridge and her boys while car, Kern's parents haven't the women's husbands were
WUERZBURC Neighbors in this tight-knit given up hope yet. "We don't serving in Kosovo last Easter. know yet for sure. They didn't During a train ride, the chil­
military community remem­
find them yet," his mother dren started whistling and

bered Maj. Michael Goodridge on Monuay as a father who Angela Kern said in a tele­making noise as they passed did everything he could to phone interview f'rorn her through a tunnel. "I bet Kyle help his two young boys adapt home. was whistling when they went to life on an overseas military Kern talked to his parents a through that tunnel," Alastair 
week ago and told them how said

base. 
excited he was about the trip

lie helped out with his 7-Goodridge, who had served yHar-old's Cub Scout troop, with Baker. lie had missed in Germany for a vear and a coached soccer and T-ball skiing last season while com­half, was appointed, operations teams and took the family to manding an infirmary in officer fur the division's 4/3Macedonia. A i r
weekend football games. On a 
"He was

long Veteran's Day weekend, Defense 
ecstatic" about

Goodridge, his wifr: Jennifer "This is something you Artillery
tho trip. Hudolf Battalion

and sons Michael and 5-year­
Kern said. An expect to happen in your 

old Kyle joined a military-affil­six months 
accomplished

ia tcd ski trip to neighboring job, not on your weekend, ago, and 
skier, "he was

Austria. colleagues
not on your ski vacation. " 
happy to be 
said he had getti~~. back relished The four from Texas are 

among eight U.S. military per­
on skis. 
Lawrence Portouw 

sonnel and their relatives who working
Back in

arP missing and presumed U.S. intelligence officer with sol­
Germany, the

dead in a cable car fire at diers again
Goodriuges' 
after bisKitzsteinhorn mountain in 

neighbors

Kaprun, Austria, that killed at previous job in the division 
cried and held each other as

least 159 people Saturday. omces.
they gathered at the military

U.S. military recovery tearn.s Lt. Col. Lawrence Portouw,
apartment complex where

joined the effort to identify intelligence officer for the 1st
they all lived near the main

bodies Monday and were col­Infantry Division, remembers 
entrance to Leighton

lecting the belongings of the Goodridge working to get sup­
Barracks, headquarters or the 

missing, including the plies out of Kosovo through
1st Infantry Division.

Goodridges' green SUV parked Greece during a change in
"There's just going to be 

in front of the Sport Hotel. its units -helping with logistics
such a hole in this community,

ski racks empty. and getting past borders, even
it's unbelievable," said a 

The other members of the though it wasn't his job.
neighbor, Stephanie Jones. 

Wuerzburg ski club who are "This is something you
They described a family

still missing -1st Lt. Erich expect to happen in the course
active in base life. Michael 

Kern, 25, of Dobbs Ferry, of your job, not on your week­
Goodridge ferried the boys to 

N.Y., and 2nd LL Carrie end, not on a ski vacation," he 
soccer, T-ball and Tae Kwon 

Baker. 23, of Florida -had said of the accident.
Do practice. Mrs. Goodridge

just become engaged last Maj. Erik Gunhus attended 
was involved with the base 

week. West Point with Goodridge.
elementary school, helping

Two other missing "He was very disciplined,
prepare meals on holidays and 

Americans traveled with younger cadets looked up to
working with the parent­another ski club from the him as a role model." said
teacher association. Kaiserslautern area. near the "Both were Army brats, they Gunbus, spokesman for the 
U.S. military's Hamstein Air knew what it took to make a 1st Infantry Division. "There's 
Base. They arc Paul Filkil, 46, community work," said a lot of group hugs going on in and his son Ben, 15, of the community, a lot of tears
Christine Merkel, ,vho lived Deerfield, Mich. Filkil's wife, next to the Gooclrirl1rn familv. and happy remembrances." 
The O·bserver?, Call. l-5323~ 
AFGHANISTAN 

Terrorism abroad 
threatens Afghans 
A,,;ociated l'ress 

KABUL 
Alerted by the arrival of crates of TV equipment. a neighbor walked in clutching an automatic rifle. his voice choked with rage. 
"Who lives here?" he asked. "I thought only Afghans lived here. We have our orders to kill any American we see any­where in Afghanistan. You know what the situation is like right now. You don't think I'll do it'? I will do it. I mean it." 
There was no telling how seriously to take this bearded, overwrought man in long tunic and baggy pants claim­ing to be an Islamic warrior. But his intrusion into The Associated Press office in Kabul was a chilling taste of life in a country that feels it is again in America's cross­hairs. 
The 1998 bombing of two 
U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania provoked a U.S. cruise missile salvo at targets in Afghanistan, where Osama bin Laden and his network allegedly planned the attacks. Now, after the suicide bomb­ing of the USS Cole in Yemen on Oct. 12, Afghanistan is anxious about the possibility of a U.S. response. 
The Clinton administration has not explicitly threatened retaliation, but an attack is assumed possible if U.S. inves­tigators can find evidence to pin the bombing of the Cole on bin Laden's network. At this point they say they do not have such evidence. 
Bin Laden is hiding out in Afghanistan as the guest of its Islamic rulers, the Taliban. The Taliban insists there's no proof bin Laden was involved. But its glossy English-lan­guage monthly, The Islamic Emirate, writes that whoever blew up the embassies and killed 224 people are "a force to be reckoned with and not the small, loosely knit network of militants that Washington had imagined them to be." 
"The alarming accuracy and efficiency with which the two bombings were planned and executed revealed the extent to which America had under­estimated the capabilities of' its enemies," the September issue sa s. 
On the streets of Kabul, rav­aged by 21 years of relentless war, the feeling seems to be that a few more U.S. missiles wouldn't amount to much. compared with the damage int1icted on Afghanistan sinC!) the 1979 Soviet intervention. 
"This country is ruined. What more can they do'?" said Mohammed Alim, who sells household goods off a rit;hlty old crate in front of rocketed buildings. 
.. For the last one year all they have been talking about is this one guest [bin Laden]. but for 20 years Afghanistan has been in darkness. We have so many problems com­ing on us -drought, earth­quakes, fighting. Always we are in trouble." said another storeowner, Farhat, who, like many Afghans uses only one name. 
High schools, government offices, an orphanage, the mil­itary academy, an industrial park, embassies and even the zoo -all are in ruins. Heavily veiled women sit in the midd!H of cratered roads begging motorists for money. 
For four years until the Taliban Islamic group cap­tured Kabul in 1996, rival fac­tions rained thousands of rockets down on the city. Some 50,000 people died, most of them civilians. 
"You didn't know if you would be alive by the end of the day. And now America with its computers and rich cities and people want to attack us? Who is Osama? He's nothing to me," said Bibi Shah, interviewed as she stepped off a bus in Kabul. 
Few people say they are afraid for their lives. If the United States does retaliate, it is likely to aim at Bin Laden's bases in the countryside, not Kabul. 
Instead, the notion or anoth­er U.S. attack brings out sad­ness. . 
Older people may remember when the Soviet Union and the United States shared influence in Afghanistan, and the coun­try was at peace. · 
That ended with the Soviet intervention to prop up a gov­ernment allied with Moscow, and the U.S.-backed Islamic uprising that forced the Soviets to withdraw a decade later. 
SAINT 
MARY'S
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM (219) 284-4468 OR 4473, FAX (219) 284-4866 OR 273-5973 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN
e-mail; puUapil@saintmarys.edu; http://www.saintmarys.edu 

VIEWPOINT 
page l 0 0Rs~RVER Tuesday, November 14, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
I' 0 B,,x Q. Notre Dame. IN 46~56 024 Suu1h Dinins Hall, Noire D"mc, IN 165% 
EDITOR IN CHIEF M1k• Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGElt Noreen Gille.pie Tim Lane 
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Christine Kraly ll rian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR, Anne Marie Mattingly Vlt'\\'l'0INT Eorrott: Lila Haughey S1•01tn EDITOR: Kerry Smid1 SCENE EDITOR• Aman<la Greco SAINT MARv'S EDITOR: Molly McV()y PH01·0 EDITOR• Elizabeth Lang 
AoVER·nsiNG MANAGFtt: Par Peters An DESIGN MANAGJ::R: Chris Avila SY~TEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville \1C1fB AllM!N!\TRAT0ll, Ad,un Turner CoNTIUlLl.hlh Bob Woods GRAJ>ll!CS ElllT0R: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
Off!CE MANAGERIGt::NEIW. lNHl.............631-7471 fAX ........... .................................................631-6927 ADVfllTISING ..............................631-6900/8840 
ob,ervad@nd.edu EDIT0I\ IN CHIH........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDm>RIAssT. ME ............. .....631-4541 BUSINESS OFHCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT. ................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................63I-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE......... . .........................................631-4540 
observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MARYS . ...........................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEIi ADMINIHRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
V1sir our Web site at htp:llobrerver.nd,du for daily up<laccs ofcampus news, sports, fea1ures and opinion columns, a., wdl -.is cartoons, reviews and breaking news from thee Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
wcea1her for up-to-rhe 
movicslmllSic for 
minure fore<.:asts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for palicies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campw. coverage 
ard,ive, to search for 
abouc The Observer 
articles published afrer 
ro meet the edirors and 
Augus1 1'>99 
sraff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the indcepcndcnr, daily newspaper publishecl in prim and online by the students ofrhe Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary·s College. Edirorial content, including advertisemencs, is noc governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither inscicution. Th• Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisemtnts based on conrcnt. 
The news is reported as accurately and objc:crively as possible. Unsigned editorials represcnr 1he opinion of the majoricy of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, As,i,cant Man.iging Editor and dcpartmcnc editors. Commen,aries, lecrers and columns prescni the views of rhe authors and not necc,sarily those of The Obmver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions 1hrough lecrcrs is encouraged. Leners to the Ediror mu.st be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Observer policies 1hould be dirtct­,J lo &ii.or ir, ChiefMik, G,,mo~y. 

Upholding morality in politics 
Are you ready for a break from Presidential politics, recounts, etc? Let's talk about some basics. 
Were the moral issues involved in the recent election, such as abortion and death penalty, merely matters of' personal preference? Or is there an objective moral order -a nat­ural law -that determines whether an act is right or wrong? 
Natural law is not merely a Catholic teaching. Aristotle and Cicero aflirmed it. Everything has a nature built into it by its maker. General Motors built a nature into your Chevy and gave you directions to show you how tu act in accord with that nature so the car will achieve its purpose. Our "Maker" has built a naLure into us that we ought to follow if we are to achieve our goal of eternal happiness. 
We can know the law of our nature, as Aquinas put it, by "the light of natur­al reason, whereby we discern what is good and what is evil." And our Maker has given us directions in Revelation, including the Ten Commandments which express the "principal precepts" of that natural law (Catechism, No.1955). 
The first, self-evident principle of the natural law is, in Aquinas' words, that "good is to be done and promoted and evil is to be avoided." The good is that which is in accord with the nature of the subject. It is good to feed gasoline to a car. It is not good to feed it to a man. And it is not good, i.e., it is evil, to steal or murder, because such acts are con­trary to the natural human inclination tu live in community. While we can affirm through reason the objective rightness or wrongness of acts, we gen­erally have neither the right nor the ability to judge the subjective culpability of the person who commits that act. To be culpable, one must know the act is wrong and choose to do it. 

The natural law governs human law as well as personal conduct. Martin Luther King cited Aquinas when he said. in his Letter from Hirmingham Jail. that "An unjust law is a code that is out of harmony with the moral law." So, when Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat on the bus in 1955, she made a natural law statement. Legally enforced racial segregation is unjust and a civil law that mandates it is void. As St. Thomas put it, if a human law "deflects from the law of nature, it is no longer a law but a perversion of law." We may be obliged to obey an unjust law "to avoid scandal or disturbance," but a law that is unjust because it would compel one to violate the Divine law must never be obeyed. 
"Moral truth is objective," said John Paul II in Denver "and a properly formed conscience can perceive it." But our intellects are weakened by original sin and people do sincerely disagree on applications of the natural law. If you and I disagree on the morality, say, of abortion or homosexual acts, we cannot both be right. "If ... we consider one action in the moral order," says St. Thomas, "it is impossible for it to be morally both good and evil." 
An authoritative interpreter is needed if the natural law is not to become rela­tively useless as a standard for law and human conduct. "Christians," John Paul said, "have a great help for the forma­tion of conscience in the Church and her Magisterium. As the [Second Vatican] Council affirms: ... 'IT]he Catholic Church is by the will of Christ. the teacher of truth. Her charge is to ... teach ... that truth which is Christ ... and confirm the principles of' the moral order which derive from human nature itself.' ... The Church puts herself' ... at the service of consdence, helping it tu ... attain the truth with certainty." 

Everyone has a pope, an ultimate visi­ble authority on moral questions. If' that authoritative interpreter is not the real Pope. it will be a pope of the individual's own selection, usually the individual himself. On the other hand, Christ is God. the Church is his and the Pope is his Vicar on earth. It makes snnse to recognize that we have only one Pope. not six billion and that his name is John Paul because he is the successor of Peter to whom Christ gavci the keys. 
The papacy is a gift of God, affording us an opportunity for mural certainty on applications of the natural law. However. the obligation of' Catholics to accept the teaching authority of the Pope does not diminish the importance of framing issues in terms of' the "uni­versal moral law" which provides, as John Paul put it at the U.N., the "moral logic which is built into human lil'c and which makes possible dialogue between individuals and peoples." 
If we do not affirm objective norms that always prohibit certain conduct, how can we define any moral limits to what the state and truth-spinning politi­cians, can do? "Indeed," said John Paul in 1993. "if there is no ultimate truth to guide and direct political activity, then ideas and convictions can easily be manipulated for reasons of power." As in this year's political campaigns. 
Professor Rice is a professor in the Law School. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Raising awareness for a mission of peace 
In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus states, "Happy are those who work for peace; God will call them His children!" (Matthew 
5:9) Happy are those who work for peace, and yet we seem to see so few people doing such work today. Our news is filled with stories of violence throughout our world. From wars in Africa, armed clashes in the I-Joly Land and East Timor, to school shootings and domestic violence in our communities; violence darkly marks our time. Those who work for the peace Jesus spoke of, true peace based on love and non-violence, seem few and far between. 
Throughout our Christian narrative tradition several follow­ers of' Christ have sought to work for the true peace of' Christ. St. Marcellus (the Roman soldier who threw down his weapons so that he could follow Christ and whose relics are in our Basilica), St. Francis of Assisi. Martin Luther King Jr.. Thomas Merton and Mother Theresa were Christians who worked for this true peace. Another is Dorothy Day. As a Catholic, Day believed the teachings of Jesus, such as love of enemy and the life of Jesus, especially his non-violent acceptance of an unjust death. should weigh ultimately upon the Christian discussion of violence and peace. She also believed that the peace that Jesus taught and lived was the true peace that could never bl1 attained through hatred or violence. 

On Tuesday night at 7 p.m. at the CSC, Jim Forest will be speaking about Dorothy Day and the peacemaking that seeks to bring about the true peace of Christ. Jim Forest is a long lime peace activist who was friends with not only Day, but Thomas Merton (Merton dedicated his book Faith and Violence to Forest) and Thich Nhat Hanh as well. Forest, who was dis­charged from the U.S. Navy in 1961 as a conscientious objec­tor, has since worked as a teacher. author and journalist. In 1989 Forest received the Peacemaker Award from the University of Notre Dame Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Pax Christi-ND invites the Notre Dame Community, a com­munity that seeks to follow Jesus and be children of' God, to come and hear this Christian peacemaker speak. 
Benjamin T. Peters M.Div. Scudenr !;ischer Gradua1te Residence November 12, 2000 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Let us call it by the name which, for lack of any other nobility, will at least give the nobility oftruth and let us recognize it for what it essentially is: revenge." 
Albert Camus author 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Tuesday, November 14, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Serving yourself only 
as much as you eat 
I work on the dish line of North Dining Hall. Gu ahead. Cringe. Everybody does. 
But, as you do, think of why my job is revolting. Is it because you see the plates placed on the carousel piled with untouched eggs and potatoes or entire waf­lles, complete with ND logo, des­tined to be slop for the garbage disposal? Or maybe you yourself are guilty? Work at the dining hall is not disgusting because we handle other people's food. It is disgusting because we have to handle other people's l'ood. Maybe you arc thinking to your­self'that this letter is an overreac­tion to a problem that cannot be solved by the simple adion I pro­pose. All I know is that, on aver­age. a meal could literally be pre­pared with the unwanted food from each tray that is sent to the dish line. To me. that is signifi­cant. 
You have probably figured out by now that when your mom · wanted you to clean your plate because there are starving people in China. she didn't mean the left­over pork chops were going to be on the next plane to Shanghai. However. don't let yourself be disillusioned. She was giving you a lesson in empathy. Waste speaks volumes about the abun­dance \'\e have on this campus and the fact that we are essential­ly ungrateful or, at best, unaware ofit. By taking only what you need or (gasp) making two trips to buffet, we are meeting our own needs, while acknowledging those whose needs will not be met today. 
If every Notre Dame student becomes aware of this simple, solvabl~ problem, then the food we conserve would eventually improve, though infinitesimally, the unequal distribution of suste­nance worldwide. On a level more close tu home, the Foodshare Program distributes dining hall leftovers to homeless shelters in the South Bend area. One positive result of observing this problem has been learning to drive the intimidating 15 passen­ger CSC van and delivering food to the Hope Rescue Mission every Sunday night. The breaks may not always be reliable and rain may occasionally dampen our spirits, but the cook's excitement over receiving the "good maca­roni and cheese" is enough to make it all worthwhile. 
So. the next time. you set a plate full of food on the carousel, remember the people who will have to throw away what you don't finish. Remember, also. the people who would die for a chance to give your leftover to their starving children. Look beyond the limited world of entic­ing dining hall cuisine toward the wider view of an unequal world economy. As the next meal rolls around, let this regret drive you to actively adjust your eyes to a size approximately equivalent to that-of your stomach. 
Caitlin Polley freshman Farley Hall November 13, 2000 


.~,... 
..... \\ 
1111a
•
-
-
=­
Tailgating trashes campus 
Although I attended the University ofNotre Dame for four years, I never felt the need to write a letter to The Observer until now. I returned to campus last weekend for the Boston College game and was utterly disgusted by the aftermath of the Saturday morning's tail­gating session. Garbage was left discarded all over the parking lots in large quantities. I have never seen it that bad before. Everywhere one looked there were bottles, cans, empty cases, plates, bags, etc. 
While I realize that tailgating is a time honored tradition, I don't believe trashing the University is. Leaving your garbage everywhere shows a total lack of respect for the environment. the University of Notre Dame and the people who it ultimately falls upon to pick up after us. So please students, alumni and fans, if you are going to tail­gate (and there is no reason you shouldn't because it's a lot offun) make sure you pick up after yourselves. Clean up your act Notre Dame. 
Cory Wagner 
Class of'OO November 13, 2000 


Three weeks ago as an afterthought, I mailed in my absentee ballot. CNN Berlin, my daily link to the United States. gave me a sense of the closeness of the presidential election, but for the most part, I had stayed happily removed from the hype, the negative television ads and the incessantly spoken opinions of political pundits as the campaign marched forward to the Nov. 7th vot­ing day. Last Wednesday, I tuned in again to the only English language channel received by my room­mate's television to dis­cover that my home coun­try had entered a state of limbo. The phrase, "Election to Close to Call," flashed across the bottom of the screen. Initially I took lightly the grave words of Wolf Blitzer that, "The eyes of the world now rest on Florida." My reaction close­ly mirrored the sentiments of the other Notre Dame students here in Austria. We look to the 
U.S. for security and often take pride in the apparent strength and wealth of our home­land. An election result that could truly send the country into a state of limbo seemed unthinkable. 
Yet over the next few days the lnnsbruckers and I found ourselves consumed by the elec­tion controversy and by the battle in Florida. E-mails arrived from parents and friends dis­cussing the ongoing recounts. the missing bal­lot boxes in Palm Beach, Florida and the legal maneuverings of the Gore and Bush campaign teams. Those of us who had sent in our absen­tee ballots stood stunned that our votes could have such an effect on the outcome of the elec­tion. Interestingly, the sentiments of our group, who partook in numerous spontaneous politi­cal debates over the past week, mirrors those of the country. We split nearly in the middle between Bush and Gore. 
I soon discovered that Wolf Blitzer spoke cor­rectly. The eyes of Austrians, particularly those of students, indeed focus keenly on the American election. As Americans we enjoy the luxury of remaining uninformed in the affairs of the world. However. the decisions and the foreign policy of the president of the United States have a great effect on the welfare of the worldwide economy and thus indirectly on the situation of individual Austrians. My roommate entered our room on Wednesday, eager to watch CNN. Peter Rusin's host brother actually threw a small party in honor of the American vote. At my host family's house I discussed the butterfly ballot of Palm Beach and the infa­mous missing ballot boxes. Each day while 

Joanna 
Mikulski 
Innsbruck Stimme 

shopping in the supermarket or riding the bus local Innsbruckers asked my take on the situa­tion in America and my opinion on our elec­
. toral system. Slightly embarrassed, l realized that few Americans know the name of the Austrian prime minister (Prime Minister Wolfgang Schuessel). 
Austrians also have taken note of the recent crisis in the United States as it proves that our great. world-dominating country and its Constitution are not perfect. Anita Gurtler. who helps to run the Innsbruck program, remarked that the mechanical counting of the vote appears undemocratic to many Austrians, surprised by the faith of Americans in machines. To her, Bush's attempt to halt the hand recount of the votes in Florida appears as an effort to fight the will of the people. I spoke with a group of students on the way to class last Thursday that regarded our system of the electoral college to be archaic and backwards. They could not believe that a candidate for president could actually receive more votes then his candidate and lose. As I explained that the United States had a republican. not purely democratic, system of government, I recognized that the country that exists as a model of government for the people by the people does not have a Constitution that truly 
-allows the will of the people to be expressed. Interestingly, as I have talked with Austrians and others about American politics over the past month, I have also received a foreign per­spective on our current president. An Irishman that I met last weekend berated me for defin­ing President Clinton as a disappointment, as a mediocre leader who could have been fantas­tic. He lamented the end of Clinton's term and supported Gore in the hope that he would con­tinue his predecessor's economic and foreign policy. An Israeli with whom I spoke on my way to London expressed his satisfaction with Clinton's policy towards Israel and his respect for Clinton as a person. Their opinion of Clinton highlighted the isolationist attitude in my own perspective. I had judged Clinton sole­ly on internal scandal and policy with little regard to his work and the effect of his admin­istration throughout the globe. And so as the turmoil in the U.S. continues, I try to adopt a global perspective, aware that my vote in a small way has a worldwide effect. 
Joanna Mikulski is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. She is spending the semester abroad in Innsbruck, Austria. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ALBUM REVIEW 

Princes just looking to have some fun with funk 
By GEOFFREY RAHIE Scene Music Critic 
(;()ntrnry to popular opinion, limk music is not dead. You just have to look a little harder to find it. Thl~ Princes of' Babvlon, armed with some knock-out0 funk mixed with a littlli soul. blues and hip­hop, have been startling crowds (mainly in the Northeast) over countless nights. The Princes' r.pon,vmous dubut album is a laid­back adventure that showcases the bands immense talent. 
The most impressive quality ol' Princes or Babylon is the constant groove that is felt all over the 
Princes of Babylon 
Princes of Babylon 
Philadelphonic Management 
Rating 
......~ 
record. The band definitely knows its role as musical catalyst for its three amazing vocalists. Katman. MCI, and Davy Quicks serve as a bang-up vocal trio that can alternate between soulful sin~ing to jazzy hip-hop. 
"Jungle Groove" starts out with a musical imerlude that flows into a lyricist's paradise. The raps arc easy on the cars and use some complex rhyme schemes rarely found in a lot of' mainstream hip­hop. 
"!lip llop Soul Groove" snems like it should have been play,id by the Hlues Brothers Showband and Hevue. And that's not a shot at the band -that's a compli­ment. In this crazy music world -where depression is king ­it's nice to hear a basic H&H band just play and have fun. 

'"You Gotta Drink It" may have no great message and be tech­nically simple enough to have been written by a high school jazz band, but still, it is a solid jamming tune. 
Princes of Babylon will play at the Alumni Senior Club this Saturday. and ii' the album is any indica­tion of the livti show, a good Lime will be had by anyone who attends. Internet users from Phillv and New York have· expressed 

The Princes of Babylon, who will be performing at the Alumni Senior Bar this 
their infatuation with 

Saturday, may not be breaking down any musical barriers with its self-titled
this hot young band, 

debut album, but has never allowed that to stop it from having a good time. 
calling it both "innova­


tive" and "extremely versatile." won't translate to the more stable 
A writer on ridiculoso.com recording atmosphere. No need expressed his love for both the for alarm. This album is solid." album and the stage show, Although they probably will not "Whenever a live band records in be on the airwaves in South Bend a studio, there's always concern anytime soon, The Princes of that the vibrant stage presence Babylon can put their stamp on campus with a stunning show. 
Judging by the band's explosive effort on this disc, it is definitely capable of captivating a crowd. So lend an ear and join the crowd this Saturday for some great music and a whole lot of fun. 
ALBUM REVIEW 

The Dynasty offers true hit-or-miss collection 
title alone, one can picture the described want you to
By LAURA ROMPF 
scene of guys and gals out for a night of 1 e a v e 
Scene Music Critic 
"crusin'." Jay-Z and fellow Dynasty mem­please." bers Beanie Sigel and Memphis Bleek pro­Similar toOn the intro track of his latest release vide the lyrics while Lil' Mo does back­Tupac's song 
The Dynasty, Jay-Z sums up the entire ground vocals. The song has novel beat, " D e a r album in one statement: 'This is food for illustrating the solid producing present on Momma," thought, you do the dishes." the record. Jay-Z thanks 
Although some tracks on the album are a While Jay-Z's two previous albums, Hard his mother little weak, overall, Jay-Z's fourth album is Knock Life and the Life and Times of S. in "Soon lyrically strong and contains memorable Carter. have some serious tracks, the You'll party songs similar to his past hits "Can I Dynasty contains more lyrics describing Understand" Get A F*** You" and "Big Jay-Z's life growing up in with the Pimpin'." New York City. final verse of
"This is food for 
For those looking for an "This Can't Be Life," the song,
thought, you do 
instant dance party, track 3 describes Jay-Z's childhood telling her "I Just Wanna Love U (Give it the dishes. " -full of "thugs and drugs." "You tried to 2 Me)" will do the trick. Featuring Beanie Sigel and teach me Pharrell and Sparks provide Scarface, the song's chorus better, but I
Jay-Z
background vocals and Jay-Z "This can't be life, there's got refused to 
on The Dynasty

takes the lyrics on his own. to be more," examines the grow/ G** This playful song displays despair Jay-Z felt growing d*** I ain't Jay-Z's attractive arrogan.ce and player up, while at the same time, the line, "Don't the young attitude: 'Tm a hustla baby, Ijust want you worry. if it's meant to be, it will be soon," man that to know/ It ain't where I've been, but reminds his listerns never to give up hope. you used to whore I'm about to gtf Now I just wanna The tracks "Soon You'll Understand" and know." love you, but be who I am/ And with all this "Where Have You Been" battle for the In "Where cash, you'll forget your man/ Now give it to most emotional and moving song on the llave You me, but don't bullsh** me." album. Been" Jay-Z 
The 10th track, "Parkin' Lot Pimpin'," is "Soon You'll Understand." performed by delivers any­
tlw same kind of fun party hit. From the Jay-Z alone, dedicates verses tu his mom thing but and his thanks to his baby's moth­father. He 

Though lyrically strong, The Dynasty, Jay-Z's latest release, may
er. Jay-Z tells begins with 

leave some Jay-Z fans unsatisfied when compared to past efforts. 
his child's "Hey Dad. mother that it's your boy. he wanted lo llemembcr me?" but those are the least mundane at best. "Get Your Mind Hight marry her. harsh of the lyrics. Jay-Z said he was Marni" and "You, Mc, llim and Iler" seem 
The Dynasty 
Jay-Z 

but he can't kicked out of the house because he looked to be filler songs with less solid lyrics. And stop being a just like his father, and then says, "We though "Holla" is a decent song. it provides 
Roe-A-Fella Records 
player. He haven't kicked it at all, you never taught nothing new or difTerent for the album. says, "When me sh"*." Beanie Sigel also raps on this Overall, the album has several hil'i, and it comes to track combining his own bitterness with its strong lyrical content shows that Jay-Z's relationships, Jay-Z's, "You make me sick ... left my mom Dynasty will be heard for a long time. A-;
Rating 

I don't have with no digits, no numbers." the Jigga man himself put it, "From ghetto the patience Unfortunately. not every song is as mem­to ghetto, gutter to gutter, street corner to...... ... because 1 orable. Some of the tracks have rather street corner, project to project -world love you, I repeUtive background beats. making them wide." 



Taking back the night? 
This Sexual Assault Awareness 
Week, The Observer takes a look
OCUS 

at efforts to raise awareness and 
, 

stop rape on campus. 
Tuesday, November 14, 2000 A regular feature ofThe Observer's News Department 
Recent changes to Notre Dames sexual assault policy are a step in the right direction, but in efforts to stop rape on campus, theres still 
A long path 

By LIZ ZANONI In Focus Wrirer 
It is Sexual Assault Awareness Week, and in the wake of a campus furor last spring over Notre Dame's handling of sex crimes and subsequent changes to the resources for victims. campus administrators are hoping to stop all sexual assault on campus. 
That may seem like a lofty goal, but University leaders are hoping that through a concentrated effort to study, and in certain ways change, Notre Dame's policies, this ideal will become reality. 
Sexual assault is something that all schools face. according to Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for Residence Life. 
"It's an issue that's never verv far from the surface on a college campus, ,_;hich is unfor­tunate," he said 
Notre Dame's sexual assault policy burst into the forefront of campus debate last April, when two reports about student rapes appeared in The Observer. The second of these articles detailed the aftermath ofa 1997 rape, and the Student Affairs disciplinary hearing in the case. This story, along with a series on the topic published in the South Bend Tribune last May, shone a spotlight on the issue, and ensuing public attention led the University to reevaluate how it handles sexual assault cases on campus. 
"Finally. we can hopefully prevent occa­sions of sexual assault," Kirk said. 
Over the summer. Kirk and other members of the Student Affairs staff met to discuss measures to raise awareness and prevent assaults in the future. 
"We wanted to respond to the concern we heard students share in painful testimony," said Kirk who noted that some students had expressed confusion of how to report an assault. 
Shortly after classes resumed in August, Notre Dame announced four changes to the way it will deal with sexual misconduct in the future. 
. 
A staff or faculty member will be estab­lishPd as the oflicial resource person to help victims ofsexual assault on campus. 

. 
A committee of representatives from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's faculty, Campus Security, the school's student bodies, and prevention and education programs will advise the University on issues of sexual assault. 

. 
This year's copy of duLac, the student handbook. will explicitly state that "student victims will not be subject to disciplinary action" associated with alcohol or parietal violations in cases of sexual assault. 

. 
Two brochures were printed explaining the resources available for victims and the University's disciplinary hearing procedure. 


The University is trying to do whatever it can to make victims feel more comfortable in asking for help, said Jeff Shoup, director of Hesidence Life. 
"Generally. we are trying to think of ways and put things in place for students to feel more comfortable in reporting and getting tho help they need," he said. 
The Business of Education 
But when it comes to punishment, Notre Dame is limited. It is not a court of law. It cannot sentence perpetrators to jail time. ThPre are no lawyers in disciplinary hearings. 
"We are not a criminal justice system," Kirk said. 
In fact, the most the Notre Dame can do is expel the charged student. As much as the University wants to see sexual offenders behind bars, said Kirk, when the victim comes to the Office of Student Affairs they must remember Notre Dame's boundaries. 

"We are an educational process and this process is not set up in an adversarial man­ner," he said. "lt is set up that a students is charged with a violation of a University regu­lation." · 
When someone brings a charge of sexual assault on another student, there is a discipli­nary hearing before three members of the Office of Residence Llfe. This panel makes a formal deci<,ion on the case. The victim may ask one student and one adult associated with the University for support. But no parents, or lawyers, are allowed. 
Critics have said that the changes are good, but they do not go far enough. 
"There still is a lot of room for growth and change," said Kori, a senior who was raped at Notre Dame three years ago and has spo­ken about her experience to many campus groups. 
One place where change may still be need­ed ls in the disciplinary hearings. 
These hearings are not uncommon. Since 1989, 17 students have been charged with sexual misconduct involving forced penetra­tion, and have had hearings ·with Residence Life. Of these, five were expelled from the University and four were suspended. The other eight were not found responsible. 
Kirk feels that the disciplinary hearing is appropriate and recognizes that strict adher­ence to a structured procedure must be fol­lowed in order for the process to remain credible. 
"for that decision to stick, we must follow the rules that we said we would follow during the procedure," he said. "If we deviate from 
see CHANGES/page 4 

"We wanted to respond to the concern we heard students share in painful testimony. " 
Bill Kirk 

assistant vice president for 
Residence Life 

"There still is a lot of roomfor growth and change." 
Kori sexual assault victim 

ONE PERSON'S VIEW 
Get both sides 

!l's dillicult to pinpoint exactly when working for The Observer transitions from a privilege to a burden, but it does. Even amid all my protests of objectivity and journalistic integrity, it's hard not to be moved by the issues we put in print daily. And as much as I try not Lo, 
sonrntimes I get swept up in the fervor, and what matters is not that I'm a reporter, but that I'm a member of' this community. 
So, in (ktobnr, in an arti­dP that announced changes tu the University's sexual assault policy, f was glad to 


speak to Notre Dame offi­
Jason McFarley

cials about moditications 
they made to procedures 
that have long been in place 
Assistant

at the Univ,1rsity. I was even 
News Hditor

morn encouraged that the 
administrators were up 
front and helpful; most o!' 
them made it a point to see that I write a thor­
ough and information-laden piece. For example, 
I departed my interviews with public relations 
director Denny Moore and assistant vice presi­
dPnt of Hesidencc Life Bill Kirk confident in not 
only the tact that Iwould be able to produce a 
balanced, informative article (I left with a sea of 
interview notes, brochures and pamphlets full of 
statistics and otlrnr useful data in hand), but also 
in the University's responsiveness to the needs of 
sexual assault victims. 
A month later, I'm troubled to admit that that 

confidence may have been a bit premature. 
llere's why: 
Had it been enough to merely interview Notre 

Dame administrators about campus sexual 
assault, readers might have seen something that 
resembled a "three-cheers-for-us" ode to the 
University that simply praised the school for its 
safeguarding efforts. no questions asked. 
But that's not journalism. And, thankfully, Kori 

did ask questions. "There's still a long way to 
go," Kori, a 1997 rape victim, said. "Notre Dame 
still has a way to go." 
For a while now, I've struggled with whether 

or not Kori is right. lier concerns about sexual 
assault and how the University responds to it 
come from a firsthand knowledge of the issue. 
My uwn worries spring from talking to both the 
people who experience it, like Kori, and the peo­
ple, like Bill Kirk, charged with handling it. 
I worry, for instance, that despite the fact that Kori claims the private, closed-door nature of Hesidence Life disciplinary hearings in cases of alleged sexual assault are extremely off-putting to victims, the University maintains that this con­ference-type procedure is fair and probably yields better results for victims than the criminal justice system. For that matter, I worry that these matters arc being managed in conference rooms not courtrooms and that the most severe punishment many campus sexual predators face is expulsion from the University not jail time. And, for the record, it's more than a little dis­turbing that. in talking to sexual assault victims, it's easy to note the discrepancy in accounting for their cases in the assault statistics the University compiles annually. It's a telling occurrence; rape happens here, but at rates we can't even begin to imagint1, or get an accurate count on. 
In the spirit ofSexual Assault Awareness Week, let's all take on the burden of becoming more informed. concerned members ofthis com­munity. Let's consider this an on-going dialogue. Let's listen to University officials and know that, to a high degree, they have students' best inter­ests at heart. 
And let's listen to Kori: "Nobody wants rape on this campus. but that's nut going to happen." She ought to know. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
IN FOCUS STAFF 
Editor: Tim Logan 
Photography: Tony Floyd 
Art: Jose Cuellar 
Lab Tech: Pete Richardson 

ND prepares for offense registry law 
puses." said John Ransburg. sex committed on campuses," he said.
• New measure 

and violent offender registry man­"I think that's one of the reasonsrequires colleges to ager of the Indiana Criminal statistics have been a little sparse."provide names of sex Justice Institute. Although locally. students, facul­
Ransburg said the Indiana ty and staff could !ind some public
offenders on campus 

Criminal Justice Institute, an exec­information from Indiana law utive branch agency. has more enforcement agencies about con­access to information about con­victed sex offenders, the new law 
By HELENA PAYNE victed rapists as a non-law will reinforce laws like Zachary's In Focus Writer enforcement organization, which law for colleges and universities. 
gives them slightly It will also pro­Last month, Congress passed a more freedom with vide money for law that will require colleges to sex offender reg­programs aimed
"We will make public
make information available to stu­istry, at protecting
information about sex
dents about sex offenders in the In Indiana, women from area within the next two years. according to offenders available to being victimized "Clearly, we're going to work "Zachary's Law" faculty, students and through violPnce, with local authorities and state passed in 1994. which Johnson
staffas required by the
authorities," said Phillip Johnson, convicted sex said was a signil1­assistant director of Notre Dame offenders or those law." can t part ol' the Security/Police {NDSP). "We will convicted of violent law. make (public information about sex crimes are required "They rnntinue
Phillip Johnson
offenders] available lo faculty, stu­to register with grants to help light 
assistant director
dents and staff as required by the local law enforce­violent crimes law." ment agencies Notre Dame Security/Police against women," The law does not have to be where they reside said Johnson. "I 
implemented until 2002 and for 10 years. think that's an Johnson said the University has not Although the Indiana Criminal important component of this legisla­yet assessed all the work that the Justice Institute does not deal specif­tion." new sex offender registry will ically with sex offender registry at Johnson said on college campuses, 
require. college campus­the most common form of rape is 
"We have not es, it works to acquaintance rape when the victim yet formulated a "Colleges in general have protect the pub­knows the sex offender. Because of' procedure," said lic from local this. many rapes are not reported
been somewhat reticent about 

Johnson. sex offenders and offenders remain unidentified 
Currently. publishing by adhering to and unregistered. NDSP posts a anything dealing with crimes Zachary's Law. "While this is an important law, crime bulletin Colleges and nothing will really stand in the
committed on campuses. ,,

on their web site universities, place of good preventative steps in accordance however, often taken by men and women," said with the Campus John Ransburg deal with cam­Johnson. Security Act, pus crimes dif­Ransburg also said he hoped pro­
Indiana Criminal 

another law that ferent I y, grams could be a good way to pre­
Justice Institute

requires public according to vent crimes. information Ransburg. "Maybe a general awareness pro­about crimes to be accessible. "Colleges in general have been gram for both men and women will 
"I know there's been quite a con­somewhat reticent about publish­help to alleviate some of the prob­cern about crimes on college cam-ing anything dealing with crimes lems," he said. 
RAD teaches women's self-defense 
assaulted while a student.
By TIM LOGAN And it is for women only,
in Focus Editor 
a quality which its instruc­tors say is helpful.A big man dressed darkly "For survivors, that was a runs at a woman standing 
more comfortable atmos­alone. 
phere," said Sue Tullos, an He approaches, and 
investigator in Notre Dame grabs at her. She sees him 
Security/Police. "There was coming and braces to more bonding." defend herself. 
The class teaches a vari­As the hulking man 
ety of different skills, begin­comes closer, his hands 
ning with the importance of head for her waist. His tar­
staying alert and aware. get yells and slams her 
Students also learn simple
palm under his chin. techniques to defend them­Stunned, he backs off for a selves against physical moment. She yells again 
assault. The last session of and runs away to safety. 
the class is dedicated to This is not an ugly inci­
practicing these techniquesdent on a against 
a dark South 
m a I e Bend street, "Ninety percent of attacker however. 
self-defense is being clad in big,
This is the 
b I a c k 
aware of
unal session 
padding.of the Hape surroundings and "It's a Aggression 
keeping out of v e r y
Defense 
empower­
program danger." 
ing experi­
(RAD). a 

e n c e , " self-defense Photo courtesy of Rape Aggression Defense
Officer Susan Tullos Tullos said. course for One par­Students In the Rape Aggression Defense class prac­
Notre Dame Security/Police
women 

ticipant tice self-defense moves against a big armored attack­taught by 
agreed. er in a simulation at the end of the program. RAD 
Notre Dame 
"It was 

classes began this year at Notre Dame.
Security/Police. 
very clear, I learned a lot." 

RAD is in its second year commitment -three hours ulty members. and the
said graduate student Kelli 

at Notre Dame, run and for one night a week for wives and daughters of
O'Brien who took RAD last 

funded by NDSP, which has four consecutive weeks. members of the Notre
month. "It was very confi­

offered the program three "It's unfortunate," Dame community.
dence-building."times already this year. It is Tullos said. "It'd been Martial arts are not the
O'Brien heard about the 

part of a nationwide pro­hard for us because of only thing taught in RAD,
class from a friend, and gram to teach women to word of mouth is a com­students' study commit­however. defend themselves. This ment." "Ninety percent of self­
mon method of advertising 

program is gaining popu­NDSP has also adver­defense is being aware of
for the program.

larity on college campuses, tised HAD in dorms. and surroundings and keeping
Organizers have had 

where statistics show that on its website. They also out of danger," Tullos
trouble attracting students 

one in four women are try to attract staffers, foe-said.
because of the heavy time 



Tuesday, November 14, 2000 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 3 
Sexual Assault 
REMEMBERING
Awareness Week 

Tuesday 
. "No Yes" -a talk by Katie Koe~ner, sexual assautt prevention advocate 
7:30 p:m. library Auditorium 
Wednesday 
. Panel of sexual assault survivors 
7:00 p.m. Montgomery Theater 
Thursday 
. Group prayer 
7:30 p.m. The Grotto 
Friday 
. "When a Kiss is Not Just a Kiss" a skit on sexual assault 
5:30 p.m. Library Auditorium 
sponsored by the Campus Alliance for Rape Education 

For the victims: a resource person or an advocate? 
.... an advocate has the role of said. "But we are trying to 
serving in a lot of different educate in a very difficult 
forms where we don't think situation." 
this person will be fulfilling Notre Dame's process 

Campus debates role of 
·At other schools 
professional in hearings that role." focuses on the opportunity 
Some critics have called to educate, even if the 

Indiana University: 
the topic," said Bill Kirk. on Notre Dame to hire an charged person is not nec­

In 1988, Indiana established a
By KATE STEER assistant vice president for advocate who will make for­essarily found to be guilty of Sexual Assault Crisis Service, which
In Focus Writer Residence Life. "Currently mal charges against a stu­an infraction. This role is 
provides a 24-hour telephone line,
we don't see it really as dent suspected of sexual different from most state 

counseling and professional advoca­There have been several being someone who edu­assault. schools, where the process 
cates campus wide. It's 

cy for victims. Advocates are a-ssault policy since last more someone to be raped at Notre Dame three ing to Kirk. 
changes to the sexual Kori, a senior who was is more adversarial, accord­
allowed to take part in hearings, spring, but perhaps the responsive." years ago, said a profes­Kirk noted potential flaws 
and attorneys can attend formal 
·Kirk cited student con­

biggest is the establishment sional advocate would have in the educational model disciplinary proceedings. 
cerns and an aim toward.

of an independent resource been very helpful when she that Notre Dame utilizes: 
constant revision as reasons

person. went to a hearing before Because lawyers are not 
for establishing the position.

This person would be Residence Life. The current involved in hearings, there 
Duke University: 
responsible to aid victims in "[Students] needed more system is progress, though. is no one to defend against 
Duke created a Sexual Assault 
a variety of ways. including information," he said. "They "It's not ideal." she said. a formal charge, should one Support Services office in 1991. It providing information to needed to know that they "But I'm happy to see any be brought about. 
helps in support and advocacy forboth victims and those had supportive people, but change at all." The exact role of the victims and provides crisis inter­seeking information for they knew that the discipli­In the University's disci­resource person is yet to be vention. Hearings, before a five­nary process would be diffi­
other purposes. He or she plinary process, the victim completely defined. A sexu­member panel, can include charac­would likely be a part-time cult going into it." is considered a witness to a al assault advisory commit­faculty member not affiliat­Other universities have violation of du Lac, and tee was formed to help for­
ter witnesses. established similar posi­
ed with the Office of therefore it is considered mulate the role. 
tions, often deeming them

Student Affairs. unnecessary to make an Organizations such as SOS, 
Georgetown University: 
"It's our goal that that "advocates," referring to a advocate available to serve CARE, student government 
more legal aid capacity. 

Georgetown has a full-time paidperson can be a very visible as one who speaks on his or and Notre Dame resource person and con­"Honestly, I don't have a her behalf. Security/Police also have an 
sexual assault services coordina­tact person for those folks problem calling this person "(This terminology] input role in the process. 
tor. That coordinator helps victims who might have questions an advocate," said Kirk. "I doesn't take it away from "The resource person will 
through the disciplinary process. about this, following an guess the reason they're that person's victim status: advocate in so many ways 
Parents and an advisor are 
assault, or people who just technically not labeled that they are the ones that have on [the issue of sexual allowed to attend hearings.
wants to know more about is because in other places, suffered the most," Kirk assault]." said Kirk. 
By the numbers 

17 
Number of students charged with sexual misconduct by Residence Life since 1989. 
The number of students who have been expelled for sexual misconduct in that 
5 

time. Four have been suspended. 
The year when colleges will be required to list sex offenders on their

2002 
campuses. 

The percentage of women who will be sexually assaulted during their four 
25% 

years in college. 
"It's the kind ofissue that people don't talk about. " 
Luciana Reali chair of Student Senate Gender Relations Committee 

"The morepeople we talk to about it the more the more the word is getting out. I hope that the occurrence of this decreases but also when it does happen people will know how to get the support they need. " 
Bill Kirk assistant vice president for Residence Life 
difficult task." said. together programs tailored to issues, and hPlp the victims. i\ "We want to be able to con­female and male students," Heali number of student volunteers
Changes 

stantly put together a publication said. "These programs will serve work with Sexual Offense Services 
Changes in motion 

that speaks to that !complaint not only to educate students about (SOS) in South Bend to helpcontinued from page I Hegardlcss, the University will from studentsJ and tries not so this issue but also to teach them answer emergency phone callscontinue to study the issue. 
much to alleviate fears. but at how to support their frie11ds who and counsel rape victims at hospi­those procedures, the student can They have created a position least say what's going to happen," may have been victims." tals.
then sue the University saying, for a resource person to provide he said. She hoped that students, espe­'they didn't give me the proce­information for sexual assault vic­The publication of these details cially freshmen, might find the

dure they said they would give tims, and established a committee Making a difference
is a good thing, according to Kori. smaller dorm program to be an
nw.'" to solidify that person's responsi­"The volunteers arc special
"Having it in writing is great, easier environment to ask difficult 
This has happened before. In bilities, and keep up with the individuals who am willing to go
because it's a different story alto­questions and speak their mind. 
1991. Gary Leonard, a former issue. out and make a ditforence in the)
gether," she said. "Brochures H.eali is also working with the
Notre Dame student, sued the "Here, we sec the best of Notre people we serve," said Laura
make everything more accessi­Student Wellness Advisory Board
University for breach of contract Dame," said Ava Preacher, assis­Eslinger, director of SOS. Student
ble." to produce a healthy living guide 
and won the case in St. Joseph tant dean of Arts and Letters and volunteers take 36 hours of train­
for freshmen that will include a
Superior Court The judge said faculty advisor for the Campus ing fur the job. 
section of services on sexual
Notre Dame failed to adhere to Alliance for Rape Elimination Fostering awareness Eslinger. who sit.'l on the sexual 
assault along with issues from
the established disciplinary hear­(CARE). This may help to accomplish assault committee, said that stu­
eating disorder management to
ing process, and Leonard was The committee is made up of another big goal: simply raising dent advocates arc the most effec­
exercise facilities. 

rPadmitled to the school. administrators, student leaders the issue. tive in raising awareness of' sexual Notre Dame wants to avoid and representatives of sexual "The more people we talk to assault issues. Each year, SOS thi\se incidentc; in the future. assault prevention groups. about it. the more the word is get­Opening communication presents a program for all Notre 
"Our whole goal is to keep our Kori asks why there is no one ting out," said Kirk. "I hope that Reali hopes that presentations Dame Resident Assistanlc; so tlwy judj.,'llJHnL from being criticized by with a more personal experience. the occurrence of this decreases will also be provided for men's will know how to respond to ca,;cs a court but it's supposed to be "The advisory committee needs but also when it does happen residence halls to help foster com­of sexual misconduct. educational and fair," Kirk said. someone who has gone through people will know how to get the munication between males and "It is much more valuable for "i\nd I believe it is." the system," she said. support they need." females about issues of sexual peers to educate tlrnir studenlc;," 
SomP universities don't handle Another change was the addi­Those who combat sexual assault. Reali said men should she said. sexual assault cases at all, instead tion to d uLac of explicit state­assault un campus are optimistic. also be aware of how to help their Eslinger is pleased to !war that IC'uving the task to the courts. ments that students will not be Rex Hakow, director of Notre female friends who might have the University is not trying to Notre Dame considered that, held responsible for parietal or Dame Security/Police, feels that been victims of sexual assault or duplicate what S.O.S. already pro­according to Kirk, but felt the alcnho! violations in sexual the University's changes have a rape. vides and instead is wnrking to only argument against hearing assault cases. lot of promise Hakow, who also "This L,; not just a woman's nr a complement the agency and give sexual assault cases would be if it That has always been the poli­sits on the sexual assault commit­man's issue," she said. "This is lifo studenL,; every possible alternalive discouraged people from seeking cy, buL it was not clearly known. tee, believes that many women at Notre Dame." Kirk agreed, say­in sexual assault cases. criminal prosecution. Kirk expressed disappointment decide not to report sexual mis­ing that men must be aware thut "There arn staff in thn OITice of 
But the University recognizes that student.<; would ever hesitate conduct at all and hope that the rape aITects them just as much as Student Affairs who understand that in many rapP cases physical to gc,t out of a situation for fear of changes will make it easier for women. what these issues at1\ all about," evidence is destroyed and the dis­breaking University regulations. victims to come forward. "You're a brother to women. she said. ci pl in ary lrnaring provides an The University will also publish "It's the kind of'issuc that peo­and some day you're going to be a Ultimately, further changes, like alternative for students who two brochures to formalize the ple don't talk about," said Luciana father to a young woman," he the ones alroady undertaken, will either doubt they have much of a changes. One pamphlet restates Reali, a sexual assault committee said. rest on student concern. chance in court or fear taking the University's sexual assault member who also chairs of the Saint Mary's witl also have rep­"The more the students say this their stories public. policy in du Lac and will soon Student Senate Committee on resentatives on the sexual assault is what we need, the more things 
"It's sometimes unsatisfying include the name and information Gender Issues. committee, and, while the College will happen," said Rita Donley, because if there is no physical of the resource person. The other In September, the Student is not making any changes to its assistant director at the University evidence and the students brochure will detail the discipli­Senate passed a resolution asking policies, administrators will work Counseling Center. Donley said accounL,; are distorted -are so nary hearing process. the Office of Residence Life to in conjunction with Notre Dame to that the challenge is keeping up clouded by use of alcohol -and The latter pamphlet is a offer educational presentations on tackle the issue, according to the momentum to address this they arc both insistent [that their response to student complaints sexual assault in the dorms each Dana North, director of Residence issue by finding underclassmen to story is what actually happened]," that both the accuser and the year. Life at Saint Mary's. build continuity rrom year to year. Kirk said. "I low do you reconcile accused are often unprepared for "We hope that they will work Students on both campuses are But regardless, it is an issue these inconsistencies? That's a the disciplinary process, Kirk with S.O.S. and CAH.E. to put already taking steps to raise the that is not going away. 




Tuesday, November 14, 2000 page 13 
CONCERT REVIEW 
OutKast continues to raise hip-hop standard 

Princes of Babylon Senior Bar 
l'he Olfsprina··• Conspjracy of One .... IJlc~.Mart•n • Setunll.Letaded 
Indianapolis Narjlyn.Nanson •·Holy Wood (In the Staa.-c,y .,, th-, Y;alljy a.f\Death) 
George Clinton Yoaue Thea1er Nov. 14 Cash Mone-, 
MilHonaires Conseco llov. 18 Bon JoYi Conseco . No..;. 22 Moe Yoaue Theaier Nov. i:IO· Barenaked Ladies Conseco Dec.04 Medeski Manin 
and Wood Yoaue Theater ... Dec~.10 •:ll•ne Inch ,IIans .• 'fhjn9s FalHna Apart Chemfca1·arochers .. MustcfResponseChicago Elion John ., One IU9h1 Only: 
Thi! Clre,1est H•ts Live 
Macy Gra-, Araaon Nov.16 
·¥ita1111in C • Nore
Prince Rjviera Theater· Nov..,Iii Ani DiFranco Araaon llov/18 Fastball Metro llci.!; le November 28 Less Than Jake VIC-Theater Noy. 2.1 Smashina Pumpkins Uni~ed Center · .Nov • .,29,. 
Tragically ffjp UICPaviHon Dec. or; ,Nasser.,~~• Ghecco. Pos1a,e Marnyn Manson UICPavtHon Dec.,02 ·· va..ious AN•scs ;;; Lyricis1: Lounae Vol. 11 
In an age when "bling-bling" and fast cars rule, OutKast 

By ARIENNE THOMPSON 
has consistently and unashamedly proven that it possesses Scene Music Critic 
unmatched originality and creativity. Comprised of polar opposites Andre Benjamin and Antwan "Big Boi" Patton, 

What the heck is wrong with OutKast'? Honestly, there this legendary duo is, among other things, strange, eccen­are no simple or direct answers, but one could easily -tric, unconventional, and, above all, brilliant. To the possi­and naively -devise the following absurdities as possible ble dismay of its country brethren in the "dirty South," explanations for the \Vcirdness that is OutKast: AJ its mem­OutKast has managed to defy and reinvent what hip-hop bers are on drugs, BJ they arc unruly radicals looking to from that region can convey aud achieve. Steering away destroy mainstream America. CJ they are ATLlens from from the standard blabber about money, cash, and bite---, Pluto or D) all of the above, and then some. it doesn't take a genius. 
As scary an<l plausible as they may sound, none of the With its fourth release, affectionately dubbed "the aforementioned statements are true, obviously. stankiest album of th£'ir career," OutKast proves on Nonelhcless, while in a mood of general inquiry, one may Stankonia that Lhey truly are solid contributors to the cre­also be inclined to ask why OutKast has not become yet ative future of rap. Coming out of Atlanta in 1995, OutKast another \'ictim of tlw standard mediocrity syndrome com­created a niche for itself in the hip-hop world, possessing a 
mon in today's rap. Yes, ··111-e-d-i-o-c-r-i-t-y" -that famil­confidence and authority usually only gained by groups iar demon of insipidness that has plagued everyone from after years of hits and growing prestige. The duo's first Trick Daddy to Cash Money over lbe past two years, dur­single, "Player's Ball," with its catchy chorus and funky 
ing which southern rap has taken a turn for the brain-Cf~ll­beat, was a suuthi>rn rap song for sure. but it had that murdering worse. But. in going back to the initial question. intangible added clement that boosted OutKast to stardom one must understand that nothing is actually wrong with and yielded an enormous fan base. OutKn.st. rather, everything is just right. Next came the hit "Elevators" from the exceptional 
album ATLiens, which not only made OutKast a commercial success, but also solidified Benjamin and Patton's status as rap innova­tors. The true measure of OutKast's success came in 1998, howev­er, when its third album, cleverly entitled Aquemini received five mies from the highly esteemed hip-hop mag­azine the Source. To date, no other hip-hop album has received such a high honor. Now, fast forward to the present and exam­ine Stankonia, a gem plucked from the dulled rock of hip-hop. 
At an astounding 24 tracks (seven of which are interludes), OutKast's latest goes from joyful to melan­choly and angry to soothing without warn­

Stankonia, the fourth release from the hip-hop duo OutKast, is one of the most creative, 
ing.unconventional and brilliant albums to hit the scene this year. "So Fresh, So Clean" 

is playful and confident while "Toilet Tisha" is sad and linger­ing. The excep­tional "Hed Velvet" exudes seriousness, with its warning against boasting one's riches. The chorus is haunting and clever, proclaim­ing, " ...they know where you live/ And they've seen what you drive/ And they say they gonna 

OutKast 
put one in your helmet/ Cause Arista Records 
you brag 'bout that watch/ And all them things 
Rating

that you got/ Them dirty boys tum your pound ........:~1:t: 
cake to red vel­


vet." 

The Erykah Badu-touched "Humble Mumble" mixes a Latin-esque tempo and beat with well-placed scratches and vocal harmonizing. Here. Banjamin dismisses some stereotypes about rap, saying, " ... thought Hip Hop was only guns and alcohoV I said Oh Hell naw!, but yet it's that too/ You can't discrimahate because you done read a book or two/ What if I looked at you in a microscope saw all the dirty organisms/ Living in your closet would I stop and would I pause it..." 
Also noteworthy is the explosive "B.O.B." (Bombs Over Baghdad) which showcases the inherent variations in style, delivery, and content that distinguish each member of OutKast from the other. Benjamin is loud and quick, often stringing together random words and phrases to cre­ate vivid, colorful images. Patton, on the other hand. brings the flavor of the "dirty South" with his lazy, country drawl and numerous allusions to Cadillacs and the ATL. With these differences present on this song and many oth­ers, OutKast has managed to create a sound that is unpar­alleled in rap today. 
Perhaps Stankonia will warrant another five-mic rating for the Atlanta duo in Source magazine's latest edition. but if not, there is no doubt that OutKast has made yet another classic rap album that has proven the power of weirdness and innovation. 

NFL 
Elam's last-minute field goal gives Broncos win over Raiders 
A..o,ia1cd Pre» 
DENVER 

Somehow. the Denver Broncos almost always 
beat the Oakland Baidcrs. 
Denver did it for the second time this season 
Monday night, winning 27-24 on Jason Elam's 
41-yard field goal on Lhe final play of the game 
after Oakland had rallied from two touchdowns 
down in the second half to tie it with a little more 
than a minute left. 
It was the second loss this season for the 
Raiders (8-2) and dropped them into a tic for the 
NFL's best record with Tennessee, Miami, 
Minnesota and St. Louis. It ended a six-game win­
ning streak that began after Denver beat them 
3:1-24 in Oakland on Sept. 17. 
The Broncos (6-4} arc still two games behind the Haiders, who could have just about wrapped up the AFC West with a win. But Denver will have the tiebreaker ii' they can make up those games and the Broncos aro in the thick of the AFC wild­card race. 
Under coach Mike Shanahan, the Broncos have beaten Oakland in 11 of their last 12 meetings. 
The Broncos took a 24-10 lead early in the fourth quarter on an 11-yard TI> pass to Byron Chamberlain l'rom Brian Griese, who missed a lit­tin more than ono series with a bruised shoulder.. 
That capped a string of 17 straight points by the Broncos, who broke a 10-10 tie in the third quarter when rookie Ian Gold blocked Shane Lechlcr's punt and returned it 12 yards for a TD. 
But the Haiders rallied for two TDs, the nrst on a 1-yard run by Zack Crockett. the second on a 22-yard pass from llich Gannon to Tim Brown with 1 :06 left. 
It was Broncos weather -the temperature fell into the teens in the second half and the wind chill was near zero. 
But the Haiders. playing without running back Tyrone Wheatley and kicker Sebastian Janikowski. dominated the first half, outgaining the Broncos 21 f>-!00. Oakland managed to lead by just 10-7 because of three turnovers and a plethora of penalties. 
Denver took a 7-0 lead just 3:28 into the game on Terrell Davis' 5-yard run after Hay Crockett intercepted a Gannon pass at the Oakland 39 on the game's third play from scrimmage. 
A 19-yard field goal by Brett Conway -subbing for Janikowski. whose infected foot kept him out -cut it to 7-3. Thon Zack Crockett went in from a yard away with just under three minutes left in the half to give the Raiders a 10-7 lead. 
The Broncos used the first 7:35 of the second half to drive 70 yards to the Oakland 4-yard line. But Davis was stuffed for no gain on third down and Denver had to settle for Elam's 23-yard field goal that tied the game at 10. 
Just over two minutes later. Gold, a rookie line­backer, broke up the middle and blocked Lechler's punt, then picked it up and ran into the end zone. 
Then Griese directed a t1awless 83-yard drive, going 6-for-6 for 73 yards and throwing to Chamberlain for the score. And the defense stopped the Raiders on four downs from their 10 after a 49-yard completion from Gannon to Andre Rison. 
But the Raiders scored on their next two pos­sessions, setting the stage for Elam. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 f.m. ar 1he Noire Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cen!S per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT  WANTED  
HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01  
4/Sbedrm.  YOUTH DIRECTOR needed At  
3 blocks to campus  First United Methodist Church. 8-12  
773-486-8822  hrs.lwk. $100/wk. Call 233-9463.  
Ask for Dan or Jen.  
3,4 & 6 BDRM HOMES.  
FURN. NOW & 2001-02.  Early Childhood Development  
272-6306  Center paid & volunteer opportuni­ 
ties. Earn money and build resume  
HOUSES FOR RENT 2001-2002  experiel'1C8 while interacting with  
10 BEDROOMS- children. The Early Childhood  
4 BATHS  De11elopment Centers at Saini  
3KITCHENS  Mary's and the Notre Dame are  
56EDROOMS  accepting applications for part time  
2 BATHS  employment positions Hours vary,  
GREAT FRONT PORCH  including MWF 12:30 p.m. ­1:30  
BOTH HOUSES  p.m. and MWF 9:30 a.m. -11 :30  
HAVE WASHERS,  a.rn. Contact Kari Alford, Program  
DRYERS AND  Director at ECOC-SMC, at 284­ 
ALARM SYSTEMS  4693 or Thayer Kramer, Program  
CALL KRAMER  Director at ECDC-ND. for more  
234-2436 OR CELL 274-1501  information  

LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Silver mustard seed necklace. VERY IMPORTANT. lffound, call Kate at 634-3697 
FDR SALE 
#1 Spring Break 2001 -Cancun. Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica, Florida & S.Padre. Reliable TWA flights. Best Prices. Earn $$$ or FREE tripsl1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentexpress.com 
Spring Break 2001 Book group of 15 and GO FREE! Book before Nov 3 tor FREE Meals! Visit us at sunsplashtours.com 
or call for free info @ 1-800-426-7710 

PHONE CARDS $201558 MIN. NO PLANS FOR THE HOLIDAYS? Hello, Mary and Andrea Louise. CALL 284-5145 or 258-4805 NEW YEAR'S? Vacation in Chicago You are awesome!! 
for $22/night. Stay at Hostelling lnl'I '95 Honda Civic EX, red, moonroof, -Chicago. Call 312/360-0300. Eeyore -how did you get that 5 spd. 52k mi., $8950, call 1-6953 www.hichicago.org. thing on your forehead?? (curling 
1993 Ford Explorer (2 door) Manual 4-wheel drive 66,000 miles call: 784-8303 or 219-232-5557 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 
WANT AVON? Call 237-1919 
PERSONAL 
Quality Copies, Quickly! We're open early, late & weekends. THE COPY SHOP La Fortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 

iron, or something else?!) Impress potential employers.Keep in contact with friends and relatives. Piglet and Tigger -have just lovely Student "business• cards are NOW Tuesdays. I can't wait for pizza! available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Chem 2001 -succinate ill Phone 631-COPY 
I have a twin Hello Mother, Hello Father I miss my twin I'm flunking out of school Why should I bother? Good old State of Maine ... I wish I This isn't very Entertaining had a tape of that song -then the My scholarship f just won't be sus-trip would be more funf taining ... 
Tambre -Tommorow. 
cough.cough 

Natalie I told you that you need to Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow get a job that pays more. $2 just 
isn't cutting it anymore. uh-huh, what's that fuss. let's all climb on the back ol the bus i am tired 
Tuesday, November 14, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
This Week in Campus Ministry 

November 6-27 103 Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #32 
(Dec. 1-2, 2000) Targeted Dorms: Carroll, Cavanaugh, Fisher, Knott, Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford, Welsh Family 
Monday-Tuesday, November 13-14 11 :30 pm-10:00pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday. November 14, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus ~ible Study 
Wednesday, November 15, 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Friday-Saturday, November 17-18 Gay/Lesbian Undergrad and 
Friends Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, November 17-18 Moreau Seminary 
ROTC Freshman Retreat 
Sunday, November 19, 1:30 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: John A. Herman, c.s.c. 
fl) Sound Profound 
Whenyourheartno longer ln,r,u with lO'Ue, many others willdie ofthe cold. 
Franc;:ois Mauriac (1885 -1970) 

Faith is the substimee ofthings to 6ehoped for, tbe evidence oftbi1'gl not1een. 
Hebrews n:I 

0MPU5 
f'VUN15TRY 
112 Badin Hall 631-5242 
103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
email ministry.1@nd.edu 
web www.nd.edu/~ministry March 2001 Coleman-Morse Center 
Coming soon. .. 

In this space ... every Tuesday.. . beginning next week ... look for .. . 
Faith FAQs 

Catholic fact~ 
...get your questions about Catholicism answered here. 
Email us with your questions: 
ministry.l@nd.edu 
or 

send them to Faith FAQs & Catholic Facts Campus Ministry 112 Badin Hall 
GJ. ­
Go on a Retreat 


Sixth Annual Retreat 

;/ 

November 1 7th-18th
,, .ffi f Jl. 


For more information, please contact: Tom Doyle,C.S.C. 1-4112 Doyle.22@nd.edu or Tami Schmitz 1-3016 Schmitz.8@nd.edu 

Prayer Opportunity 

Come sins & pray wi1h Chris1ians of all fai1h 1radi1ions. 
Led by students for students. 
Every Wednesday @ IO p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel
lnte~~Mm 

lea1urins the Celebra1ion Choir 
mr,.ht [Jlt;).re r ALL ARE WELCOME 
CONTRARY TO POPULAR BELIEF, 
GREAT MINDS 
DO NOT THINK ALIKE. BUT THEN AGAIN, SOME DO. 

In a recent Universum American Undergraduate Survey, business students selected us as their number one employer of choice. We were also named one of the top companies to work for by the 2000 Annual Survey of Accounting Professors. So why is everyone giving us such high marks? Maybe it's our commitment to ongoing training and the challenge of new and exciting projects. Maybe it's the environment that fosters personal and professional growth and development. Or maybe, because when it's all added up, students and professors alike know that we really make the grade. 
www.pwcglobal.com/ocp 
f'R1cEWATfRHOVsE[mPERS I 
Join us. Together we can change the world.sM 

C 1DQO Pricew,terl>c,u5CCoopers HP. Prict-wari.orhot.,st<~ relen ru rhe U.S•.firm of Pricew-alem<JuseCoapet'J LLP .ind other mcmbcn: ol the wo,ldwidl> Ptict.-waterhouwCuupt.'l'S tlrs.JniL,ftion. Pricewate-rhollieeoopen is prvl.ld ro be a11 Affirmative Acrion and &JLMI Oppvt1Ut1ity Employ« 
page 17

Tuesday, November 14, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
! Student (}overnment's ! 
! . (}ender (Rg{ations ! . : . Committee Presents.· : . 
! atie oestner ! 
. I . 
. I . 
! Tll:esday the 14th ! : At 7:30 in Hesburgh Library ! 
. ; / . 
. . . 
: Katie Koestner is a date-rape survivor and sexual assault prevention : 
. advocate. Koestner's work on behalf of date-rape survivors led to . . the passage of the Campus Sexual Assault Victim's Bill of Rights . . in 1992. She was written several books and made countless . . . campus and television appearances. Koestner will be . . . speaking about her experience with date-rape, .! her refusal to remain quiet, and her subsequent : . experiences as an advocate of victim's rights. . 
!. This Lecture Should Not Be Missed By Anyone! : . 
' -----_ _..._ .. --·-~---... -----.. ----..& .. --.... .._ ____ .,. /1' ...... -.. ~--..,. .I.I' .. -.-.... _•.-.'!' ~ --,--.• -.... --.--·:-..... -.. ----.. ---.. --.. ----.. ---.. ---... ---.. -..... --.. --.... -• -.. ---:'" ~ • ---•• --• :-~ .. -..... -~ -.. -.-.-..... --• J 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Martinez finds success in back-to-back Cy Young awards 
Associarcd Pres• 
NEW YORK 
About the only thing that gives Pedro Martinez any trouble is analyzing his own success. 
After becoming the first pitcher to win the American League Cy Young award unanimously in consecutive years, Martinez couldn't compare the two sea­sons. 
"I don't look at the results," he said. "I don't even know rpy numbers. I know you chose me as the Cy Young winner. I'm very pleased. proud and grateful" 
Martinez. who has won three Cy Youngs in the last four seasons, received all 28 votes for 140 points in voting released Monday by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
Oakland's Tim Hudson finished sec­ond with 54 points, getting 16 seconds and six thirds. David Wells of Toronto 


• I  
.  .'-~1¾o•.  
~  ' .  
.  '  .  ·-·:..~.  
,  
KAT photo  

Pedro Martinez pitched his way to another Cy Young award, becoming the first American League pitcher to win unanimously in consecutive years Monday. 
was third with 46 points, followed by Andy Pettitte of the Yankees (7) and Detroit's Todd Jones (3). 
'Tm really honored and nattered to be chosen unanimously as the winner," Martinez said. "It is equally special and equally important to last year." 
This was just the fourth time a pitcher won outright back-to-back Cy Young /\wards in the AL. Hoger Clemens, the pitcher Martinez replaced in Boston, did it in 1986-87 with the Red Sox and 1997-98 for Toronto. Jim Palmer won in 1975-76 for Baltimore. 
Detroit's Dennv McLain won the Cv Young in 1969 and shared the· award the next year with Baltimore's Mike Cuellar. 
Martinez, 29, is one or seven pitchers to win the award at least three times. Clemens has five Cy Young awards, fol­lowed by Steve Carlton and Greg Maddux with four each. Tom Seaver, Sandy Koufax and Palmer also have three. 
"He just moved in with Palmer and Seaver and Koufax. and he's got an opportunity to continue pitching," Boston general manager Dan Duquette said. "He's reached an extremely high level at a young age." 
Martinez went 18-6 with a l.74 EHA -nearly two runs better than Clemens' second-best AL mark of 3.70. It was the lowest ERA by an AL starter since Luis Tiant's 1.60 ERA in 1968. 
"This is equally as good a season, maybe better," said Martinez, who led the league with 284 strikeouts and four shutouts. "There are other things that contribute to the wins from last year. I haven't compared the numbers." 
Last year, Martinez went 23-4 with a 2.07 ERA to become only the fourth pitcher to win the AL Cy Young award unanimously. He also joined Gaylord Perry and Handy Johnson as the only pitchers to win the honor in each league. Martinez won it in 1997 for Montreal. 

"l think he had a better year this year," Bed Sox manager Jimy Williams said. "You can't just look at his wins and losses." 
Martinez joined Clemens as the only pitchers to win the award unanimously twice. but Clemens did his 12 years apart:· in 1986 for Boston and 1998 for Toronto. Ron Guidry of' the Yankees \Vas the unanimous winner in 1978 and McLain in 1968. 
Martinez's wins were down due in part to poor run support. But evPrv­thing else was the same f'or baseball's best pitcher. In 217 innings. he allowPd onlv 128 hits and 32 walks. 
Ile also struck out 284 batters and wasn't afraid to brush back hitters in an effort to intimidate the opposition. 
While 2000 was as good Nor bPttnr ­than 1999 individually for Martinez. it was a frustrating sPason nonethelPss. The Hed Sox. despite having tht~ bPsl team EHA in the AL. went 85-77 and finished 2 l/2 games behind the NPw York Yankees in the AL East. 
"I would trade this award for a. chance to play in the World Series," he said. "As a team, we did pretty good. We didn't do that bad to be disappoint­ed. We were in contention until the end." 
Martinez eariled a $500,000 bonus on top of his $11 million salary for winning the award. Wells got $50,000 for his third-place-finish. 
Indians withdraw Ram.irez offer, begin to look elsewhere 
Associat~d Press 
CLEVELAND 
The Cleveland Indians with­drew their seven-year, $119 million offer to Manny Ramirez and said Monday they would aggressively pursue other free agents. 
General manager John Hart said that if Ramirez eventually decides he wants to stay in Cleveland, the Indians won't pay him a penny over the $17 million-per-season offer the free agent outfielder already has rejected. 
"He's not going to come here for more," Indians general manager John Hart said. 
The Indians' package was turned down during the week­end by Ramirez's agent, Jeff Moorad. Ramirez has said he wants a 10-year, $200 million package. 
"Our offer has been pulled and we are in the business of going forward and building our team for '01 and beyond," Hart said at a news conference at Jacobs Field. "We are involved in talks with other free agents and trades." 
The Indians on Monday also exercised club options on three 

The Keough Institute for Irish Studies 
Is delighted to announce its courses for Spring 2001 
IRST 101:01  Beginning Irish I  MWF9:15-10:25  Staff  
IRST 101:02  Beginning Irish I  MWF I 1 :45-12:35  Staff  
IRST 102  Beginning Irish II  TH 11:00-12:15  Breandan Mac Suibhne  
IRST 103  Intermediate Irish  TH 9;30-10:45  Breandan Mac Suibhne  
IRST327B  Irish Hlstory II  TH 9:30-10:45  Jim Smyth  
IRST334A  Nat. Cinema: Irish Cinema/ Culture  TH 11:00-12:15  Luke Gibbons  
IRST334L  Nat. Cinema; Lab  T 6:30-9:00  Luke Gibbons  
IRST375  Irish Fiction, 1945-2000  TH 11:00-12:15  Mary Smyth  
1RST378  19th Century British & Irish Fiction  TH 9:30-10:45  Nathan Wallace  
IRST436  Foreign Influence in Medieval Ireland  MWF 9:35-10;25  Aideen O'Leary  
IRST478E  Contemporary lnsh Drama  MWF 12:50-1:40  Susan Harris  

For Infonnation about the IRISH STUDTES PROGRAM please contact Susan Hanis (631-5088) 712 Flanner Hall http://www.nd.edu/-irishstu/ 
players: center fielder Kenny Lofton and relievers Paul Shuey 
fr.om 0UTPCIST 
Campus 
on,,,. veln•wry•n.. 


Coll 259-2000 for more detalls 
• 4,

• 
and Ricardo Rincon. 
Lofton, who hit .278 last sea­son after making a remarkable return from shoulder surgery, will make $8 million next year. 
"We're not sitting here wring­ing our hands or falling down and stomping our feet because Manny didn't sign," Hart said. "We're going hard and fast at improving our team." 
Meanwhile, Moorad was reportedly meeting with two teams interested in Ramirez, the AL's top BBi producer the 
past three years, at his Newport Beach, Calif., offices. 
Moorad did not immediately return a phone message seeking comment. 
Hart said he is not ruling out the possibility that, once Moorad tests the free-agent market, he may not find a deal better than the one the fndians offered and could want to reopen egotiations. 
Hart would be willing to talk, but he reiterated the Indians can't wait too long during the free-agency season for Ramirez to make up his mind. 

"We can't wait. We're not in a business of sit and wait," he said. "We want to find players who want to be Indians.... We're not going to play musical chairs and be left without a chair. We think there are some dance partners out there." 
Hart said he wasn't shocked that the Indians' offer, which he called "extensive," was rejected by Moorad, who insists that Ramirez prefers to stay with the Indians. 
The Indians extended them­selves beyond their means. Hart said, because the club thought it was important to retain a home­grown player who is also one or the most popular on the roster. 
"There was a sincere effort made by the Indians to make the offer work," he said. "It was extensive. We felt he was a quality player and a popular player with our !'ans. We had heard that this is a market that the player wants to play in. 


• 
Olil 

• 
• 
IC 

• 

• 
I 


• 
It really is that easy. Free, too. 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer OBSERVER 
, 
online classifieds 
. 
-


NEED A LOAN? 
Morrissey Loan Fund 
Up to ~250 at 1% interest rate for 30 days 
(must be a ND student) 


,._
-0 

(]) .0 :::,
0 

en C!: en I
<D 

..0 :::, 
-

--0 (D 3 A Philadelphonic band that has -0 
.,, C 
..... 

(]) 3 
~ opened for G-Love & the Special 3 
0 3 
I-Sauce, Macy Gray, and Wycleff Jean, POB combines roots, reggae, r&b, jazz, blues, and funk all in the context of 
-0 
C 

contemporary hip-hop beats. 0 
UJ 
~ 
<( 
0 
Irish 

continued from page 24 
The transition started on Tuesday, after Holiday simulated Air Puree's option attack and played well in the bye week. 
"He really showed some leadership and picked things up," coach Bob Davie said. "With his combi­nation of athletic ability, not only running the ball but he's explosive throwing the ball, he's moved ahead ot'Jared a little right now." 
The coaching staff made a Hst of 15-18 plays for Holiday last week, in case he entered the game. If he plays against Hutgers or USC or in the bowl game. Holiday loses a year of eligibility. Prior to this week, it seemed the coaches wanted to grant Holiday a chance for a fifth year. 
"It's not my decision [to play this year]," Holiday said. "If I did, it would be OK." 
Nine months ago, Holiday faced another agoniz­ing decision. On Feb. 2, he signed with Notre Dame and spurned Nebraska. The competition for the 6­foot-2 190-pounder grew to the point where Holiday refused to answer the telephone. 
"Kirk Doll has got little calluses on his lingers from hitting that dial on that phone so many times," Davie said on Feb. 2. "In my sleep I can hear that operator come on saying, 'No one answers yet.'" 
When he arrived on campus, he struggled learn­ing the offense and fell near the bottom of the depth chart. But in public, Davie still remained high on the San Antonio native. On numerous occasions. the head coach referred to Holiday as the most athletic of the three freshmen. 
'Tm really starting to pick (the offense) up now," Holiday said. "It's really starting to click in my head. I don't know all of it but I know pretty much most ot' iL" 
Besides getting a football education, Holiday also received a life lesson since reporting for summer camµ. 
"You can't be selfish," Holiday said. "You've got to realize what your role is on the team." No one's role has changed more than Holiday's. 
NOTES: 
. Following the Oct. 28 Air Force game. Davie complained about the officiating and called Dave Parry, the Big Ten's supervisor of officials. Ile also decided to send a tape of questionable plays and a letter to the Mountain West Conference's commis­sioner. "He (the commissioner) looked at it the day he got it red-Exed and called me back that after­noon," Davie said. "We talked about all the calls that we thought were right and wrong. I thought he 
did a tremendous job." 
0!1197, --­
0 
_J 
E 
.c
+-0 en 
~ 
() (I)
American Heart A 
,._ ~ 2:
Associatioo.y 
0 (I) 
V)
fighting Ht-1 Olaeae and Strou 
X 
0 <D 
co ..0
ONEOFTHESE 
(I)
CAN CHANGE 
C ·3
A THOUSAND LIVES 
:::, 
+-V)
...
SUPPORT MEDICAL RESEARCH 
0 +-C 
u.. (]) 

Community honors Wood with fund 
By JANEL MILLER 
Spom Writer 
They came from all across the nation. They were found in a range of sizes, shapes and ages. And they all came together to cel­ebrate and honor one man. 
Better known throughout north­ern Indiana as "Mr. Hoosier," Marvin Wood was more than just a legend for the women of Saint Mary's. he was a friend, a confi­dant, and their coach. 
Last year after Wood passed away. Tammy Radke Raster. a 1988 graduate and former player for Wood. began to devise a way to honor her college coach. Raster, with some help from the current Saint Mary's athletic staff. sent letters to all alumnae and family, current Saint Mary's stu­dents and their families, and any­one else whom "Marv" might have impacted. In a letter to her former teammates and alumnae, Raster expressed her goals for a memori­al: 
"[ wanted the fund to be a way for former players to remember how Coach Wood impactea our lives. and to allow future players the chance to honor such a pillar in the history of Saint Mary's ath­letics," Raster said. 
Raster and athletic director Lyn Kachmarik devised the idea for the first annual Alumnae Athletic Weekend, which began Friday night with the dedication of a memorial bench for Wood. Over 25 alumnae returned to celebrate Wood and reunite with alumnae from all classes in their respective sports. 
An inscription on the bench reads: "In memory of a man of great integrity, who will forever be cherished for his loyalty and dedication to the women of Saint Mary's." 
The bench will remain at the entrance of Angela Athletic 
<D -0 
"I wanted the fund to be a 
way for farmer players to 
remember how Coach Wood 
impacted our lives, and to 
allow future players the 

chance to honor such a pillar 
in the history ofSaint Mary's 
athletics." 
Tammy Radke Raster 
alumna 

Facility were it will be recognized as a token or the hard work and commitment of a man that touched the lives of many Saint Mary's women. Many of Wood's players, friends. and colleagues were in attendance, along with his 
wife. 

rollowing the conclusion of the dedication the 2000-2001 Belles basketball team hosted a night filled with basketball. 
Twelve Saint Mary's basketball alumnae tied on their sneakers to take on the winner of the current Belles basketball team's inter­squad scrimmage. 
"I think everyone that played had a great time. I know that my girls had fun," said Suzanne Smith, Belles head coach. 
Coach Wood began his tenure with Saint Mary's in 1984. 
Ile spent another 11 seasons with the Belles and in 1996 finally retire after coaching for over 40 years. Before coming to Saint Mary's "Marv" coached at Bethel College, Mishawaka High School, North Central High School, New Castle High School and Milan High School. In 1954 Coach Wood led his team from the small town [Milan] to the Indian State Champion-ships. The storyline of the movie "Hoosiers" was based on Wood's 1954 team and their championship bid. 
ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB $3 ND&SMC STUDENTS. $5 NON STUDENTS NOVEMBER 18 
10:00 PM ALL AGES 

The highlighted event for Saturday was the tailgate spon­sored by alumna Kara O'Leary. 
"This weekend gave us a reason to actually come back," said alum­nae swimmer Tara Krull. "It was a lot of fun." 
llighly attended, the tailgate brought those just arriving with those women who were able to attend the previous night's ovents. 
The weekend of' celebration and remembrance was wrapped up early Sunday morning with an alumnae swim meet and brunch at Rolf"s Aquatic center. 
In attendance was a 1976 grad­uate who was the highlight of' the meet. 
Sheila Hafferty Civale started the swim team at Saint Mary's with another woman, Linda Rocco Hearstman. 
The inaugural team consisted of three women. Hcarstman and their coach, Civale. Civale returned Sunday to swim in the alumnae meet, along with several alumnae from the early 90s and 1993 to 1995 Belles coach Greg Janson 
Janson. who flew in form his residence in Calif., said hc had his greatest coaching experiencn, while at Saint Mary's. 
"I have a lot of great stories ­mainly because I worked with a lot of great women," said Janson. 
Janson wantod to stay with thP Belles but left because he couldn't afford to stay with tlrn low amount Saint Mary's was paying him. 
Under Janson, Saint Mary's had its first swimming NCAA All­American qualifier -1997 gradu­ate Allison Smith. 
"We were able to finally put faces with the names we read about in all the newsletters we get. I'm very excited for next year's meet," said alumnae swim­mer Meghan Hurley Nadzan. 
"We're going to  make sure  it is  
bigger  and  better  than  this  
year's."  

La Fortune Student Center Across from the Information Desk I 
Mondays from 3:00-4:00 Tuesday-Friday from 12:30-1:30 

Tuesday, November 14, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish finish eighth at Great Lakes Regional 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's quest for a second straight trip to nationals ran into a dead end Saturday with an eighth-place finish at the Great Lakes Regional meet in Ypsilanti, Michigan. 
"The whole season. we haven't run anywhere near what I thought we were capable of running," women's head coach Tim Connelly said. 
Sophomore Jen Handley paced the Irish, as she has most of the year. Her 6,000-meter time of 21 minutes, 47.3 seconds was good enough for 19th place. 
"It was a good way for me to finish off the season because my previous two races weren't my best," Handley said. "Still, there's Lhat part of me that's not 
satisfied  until  I'm  at  
nationals."  
The  next  finisher  for  

Notre Dame was Chrissy Kuenster. the lone senior racing for the Irish. Kuenster, who improved by leaps and bounds this sea­son. placed 29th in 22:04.:·L 
"It's always hard not to get your goal," Kuenster said. "I could sort of tell halfway through the race, that it was going to be my last race, and I was just trying to enjoy myself and run as fast as I could." 
After Kuenster crossed the line, the Irish went through a long dry spell. Their next runners were well back in the pack. Freshman Hachel Endress took 73rd, junior Hilary Burn wuund up 75th and sophomore Kari Eaton placed 76th. 
To get to the NCAA Championships, Notre Dame likely would have needed an automatic berth. a prize earned by a top-two finish. Wisconsin won the meet with 65 points. and Michigan was the runner-
page 21 

Men 
continued from page 24 
as the season progressed, we all began to fill our parts." Watson won the lead role in NotrA Dame's 2000 production. 
He won nearly every meet this year, taking individual titles at the Valparaiso Invitational, the National Catholic Invitational. the Notre Dame Invitational and Saturday's Great Lakes Regional meet. 
As in his understudy role as Notre Dame's top runner, Watson moved into the lead Saturday midway through when Eastern Michigan's Blake McDowell fell back. Watson ran most of the race with a pack that hovered behind McDowell, but in the final leg of the 10,000-meter race, Watson poured on the speed. 
"It was a perfect race for me. Ii. got out pretty relaxed and allowed me to get into my rhythm pretty well," Watson said. "Going into the final mile, he [McDowell] had a substantial lead on the pack that I was in. and he almost got out of reach. The last half­mile, that's when I really started going for the victory, and I passed him with 100 meters to go." 
Marc Striowski, also a junior. eased into a spot as Notre Dame's best supporting actor this season. Striowski, who placed eighth Saturday, also took eighth at the Big East Championships in Boston on Oct. 26. Notre Dame's top tandem figures on contending for honors as All-Americans by leading the Irish at nationals. 
Coming up big for Notre Dame at regionals wern the third and fourth runners, junior Pat Conway and freshman Todd Mobley. Conway placed 17th, while Mobley grabbed 24th, with 10 seconds separating the two. 
Notre Dame's top four runners earned all-district honors by fin­ishing among the top 25. 
"Our front four have been solid all year," Piano said. 
The final piece in Notre Dame's search for a return to nationals was its fifth man, the toughest spot to fill. Saturday, Sean Zanderson was No. 5, placing 93rd in the meet, while junior Tom Lemmon and freshman David Mertens finished sixth and seventh for Notre Dame and did not score. 
The Irish had hoped for a top­two finish at regionals, a finish that would have garnered them an automatic spot at nationals. But without a stronger fifth run­ner, the Irish settled for third behind powerhouse Wisconsin and regional foe Eastern Michigan, which placed five in the top 33. 
While an automatic spot was beyond Notre Dame's grasp, the Irish performance sent them to nationals in an at-large spot. With their season-long goal achieved, attention now turns to the NCAA. Championships, to be held in Ames, Iowa, on Nov. 20. 
"We're happy to get to go to nationals," Conway said. "We're a little disappointed by not get­ting an automatic bid, but we weren't too disappointed, since we're still moving on to nation­als." 
Pata1onia
excltisively 
at-.~ 
Sminute~
from CIUTPCIIIT 
Camnus s ors 

r Competllhle In.-,-• Coll 259-1000 for more details 

2000-0 I Season Notre Dame Film.Television. and Theatre Presents 


by Eric Bogosian, William Finn, John Guare, Tony Kushner, Marsha Norman, Ntozake Shange, Wendy Wasserstein 
DIRECTED BY SIIRI SCOTT 


PLAYING AT­WASHINGTON HALL RESERVED SEATS $9. SENIOR CITIZENS $8. ALL STUDENTS $6. 
up with 113. Notre Dame's total was 172. 
"Maybe I underestimated the importance of experi­ence at the level we're try­ing to compete at, and that's a pretty high level," Connelly said. "It [not qual­ifying] is not something you want to accept." 
The success the Irish hoped for never material­ized in 2000. While they ran well at times, filling the gaps left by graduated All­Americans JoAnna Deeter and Alison Klemmer proved an insurmountable task. 
Freshmen and sopho­mores dominated Notre Dame's squad this year. young runners who might become building blocks for another great Notre Dame team, but lacked seasoning 
Some themes and language in this play may be offensive to some viewers. 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17 SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18 SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 19 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. 
MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631-8128. 
this year. 
"I think we've got kids here with that kind of potential," Connelly said. "We've got a really good group of freshmen and sophomores. They have to continue to develop." 
This year's early end is one Connelly hopes not to repeat, as the eighth-place regionals finish was Notre Dame's worst in a decade. He doesn't have to worry, if Handley's determination is any sign. 
"We're never going to be happy until we get to nationals, and until we're one of the best teams at nationals," Handley said. "We're already thinking about next year. We're all pretty young, and we can only get better. We're already focusing on that." 
l'NJVERSITY OF N011lE DAME 
Men's Results 
Luke Wa1son(1)  30:47.1  
Marc Sttiowski(8)  31:23.0  
Patrid< Conway(17)  31:44.7  
Tedd Mobley(24)  31:54.2  
Sean Zanderson(93)  33:31.0  
Tom Lennon(104)  33:49.7  
David Mertens(100)  33:51.3  

Women's Results 
JenniferHandley(19) 21:47.3 Chrissy Kuenster(29) 22:04.3 Radle! Endress(73) 22:45.2 Hilary Bum(75) 22:45.3 Kari Eaton(76) 22:45.5 Megan Johnson(103) 23:08.5 Melissa Schmidt(135) 23:42.2 
tNTEllNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 10? SECURITY BUILDING Netn Dime, lndlu ¦ .6556 t I T: 631-mal Fas:: '31--5711 
c 

ANCERS, FRANCE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Prof. Julia Douthwaite Cannen Nanni, Assistant Director Student Returnees 
Wednesday November 15, 2000 
4:45 PM 208 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: December 1, 2000 Applications Available www/nd.edu/~intlstud 



WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish prepare with preseason test against Finnish Select 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assisr:un Sports EJicor 
ThtJ (ixhibition season serves as a time when a LPam is able to devnlop without the pressure of' knowiug that the game counts. Coaches can try different plays combinations of players that nor­mally would not play together, and observe other aspects of their team without the need to win the game. 
h>r the Notre Dame women's basketball team, tonight's game against Tapiolan llonka from Helsinki, f-inland, should prove to be entertaining whilc allowing Irish coach Mullet McGraw to try as many tricks as shn wishes. 
The Irish enter the game coming off of an impressive 91-56 victory over the Ohio All-Stars on November 5. In that game, the Irish were able to maintain a dominating lead despite having All­American center Ruth Riley on the tloor for only 12 minutes. Freshman guard Jeneka Joyce came off the bench to lead the Irish with 16 points. 
Wilh 10 more days of praclice under their bdts. Joyce expects the team to come out even stronger tonight. 
"We should play just as well or even better than we played our first exhibition game," she said.. 
Joyce also rualizes that the team needs Hiley on the 11oor fi)r more of the game, which can only be accomplished if the senior stays out of foul trou­ble. 
"\Ve want her on the 11oor as much as possible because she is an All-American and she's a great asset to our team." said Joyce. 
While the game marks the final preseason game for the Irish. it is also the last of 10 games on a Midwest trip for Tapiolan Ilonka. The Finnish team did not fare as well as they might have hoped in the heartland of America, carrying in a record of 0-9 after Monday night's 94-43 loss at the hands of' the University of Dayton. 
The loss to Dayton followed another disappoint­ing loss on Sunday night, as the European ladies fell to the Buckeyes of Ohio State by a score of 120-46. 
lfeta Korpivaara has proved the offensive leader for Tapiolan I lonka, leading the team in scoring each of the last two games with 18 points Monday after 10 points and live rebounds the previous evening. 
Tapiolan flonka has also lost to Butler, Vanderbilt and Wright State during their 

Belles to turn in a more com­petitive finish. 
Belles 
Saint Mary's should have lit­tle trouble placing higher in
continued from page 24 
the MIM rankings than Olivet College that finished last sea­they deserve," Kachmarik said. 

son with only two league wins.

What the basketball players and Adrian College that fin­deserve is a more successful ished with only four leagueseason than in year's past. This wins.
season the new coaches and Friday night the Belles will the players will have to start a take the first step on a road tochange that may take place improvement and victory. Fansover a long period of time. 
should enjoy a more successfulAlthough fans cannot expect season this year with the youththe Belles to finish first in a and energy of a new headvery competitive MIAA follow­coach and a team that is look­ing a very difficult season last ing to make strides.

year, they can expect the 

Saturday, November 18 1 :00pm at Beacon Bowl 
Individual Registration in advance at RecSports 3Game Format Registration deadline is Wednesday, November 15 Cost is $5.25 and individuals will pay the day of at the Bowling Alley Transportation is not provided For more information call RecSports at 631-6100 
~~~ 
Tuesday, November 14, 2000 The Observer . TODAY ·page 23 

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 32 Run in 60 Channeler's 1 Dancer's asset 35 Camden Yards 
state sight 61 Eli's school 

7 D.J.'s stack 39 Hog's home 62 Gator add-on 
10 Farm newborn 
CELEBRITIBS BORN ON THIS because of a little opposition. 0000
63 Insists

14 Microscopic 40 Start another DAY: Prince Charles, Yanni, McLean VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Don't critter hitch Stevenson, King Hussein of Jordan, argue that black is white. You can Laura San Giacomo expect disagreements. New rela­
15 Inebriated 41 Lavatory sign DOWN 
Happy Birthday: You will be tionships will develop ii you attend
16 Sporting weapon 42 "This won't hurt 1 •_Lama Ding 
patient and understanding this year, fund-raising events. 00
_!" Dong"

17 Roughly which will help you excel Your de­LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Your 
2 Managed care

19 Tableland 43 Bun worn on sire to help others will be praised, intellectual approach will dazzle 
grps.

the head and the perks you receive because of those you come into contact with.
20 Is inquisitive 
3 Sergeant in a your giving nature will be well You may want to look into travel that 
45 Appoints in21 With 11-Down, 

advance 1941 film worth your while. You will do well will be beneficial from a business daytime TV fare in a leadership position. Your num­standpoint. Connections can be made. 
4 Pro shop bagful 49 There's a lot of 

22 They're making bers: 11, 23, 28, 34, 39, 44 00000
interest in it 5 "The Sopranos" 

pesetas passe ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
airer

50 Stein fillers busy schedule will be conducive to Don't let someone at work under­
23 Plan ala Twyla 
6 Mason of ''The romantic encounters. Develop your mine you. You will have to rely on
Tharp 51 Puente or 
Goodbye Girl" creative hobbies. Get busy making yourself if you want things to get
Jackson25 Jefferson's 

7 "C" on a some of your Chrisbnas gifts. Don't done. Don't just think about doing
1860's opposite 55 Franklin D.'s 
calculator let your temper flare up if someone things; take action. 000
mother

29 Pi followers criticizes your work. 0000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.
8 Scatter, as a

56 Proprietor of a TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 21): Your mate may be emotional
30 Response to crowd "grazie" 
sort Check your personal papers. You if you refuse to talk about existing
9 Ave. crossers

58 32-card game may have to finalize documents problems. You can turn things31 _ were (so to 
10 Legbones before the end of the year. Be pre­around by being passionate and reas­
speak) 59 He's a doll 11 See 21-Across pared to work hard for extra cash. suring about your devotion. 000 12 Man of morals 
You will be in a position to promote CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): your ideas. 000 Take a little extra time to come up
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Check for 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't with a look that is more professional. 
Checkers 

Puzzle by Todd McClary jump to conclusions because of Go after that new position you'veAK 18 Hang over one's hearsay. Try to spend some time with been interested in. 000
33 As well 51 1986 P.G.A. 54 It's "sandwiched" 

L I 
head friends and relatives. You will receive AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
34_greens Championship in 17-, 23-, 35-,

D E _=+-.,.....-+---1 22 Voyages for the good advice regarding your personal Socialize with good friends. You will 36 Israel's Golda winner Bob 45-and relationship. 000 be able to use your talents to enter­
vain? 
56-Across 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): tain others. Passionate encounters
37 No longer in
23 Sunday singer 52 Places to 56 Relative of 

Investments appear to be quite posi­look promising. Start physical acti­
38 Bic filler overnight

24 Buckeye's home reggae tive. You should be checking into vities that will keep ybu in shape.
42 Freshen 

~.:;.,&.;:;_J..;..~~-=4,::..:.i,;.;;.i 25 "N.Y.P.D. Blue" 53 Private eyes, 57"... man_ travel opportunities. Don't nag, or 00000 alerts 43 Opera house slangily mouse?" you'll end up spending time all PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
26 Handful for a level alone. Do things for the family. 000 Don't let family members bait you. baby-sitter 44 Beginnings LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You Arguments will be distressing. The 
27 Depend (on) 45 Meticulous to a Answers to any three clues in this puzzle should be an active member at group new person you may meet will not fault are available by touch-tone phone: meetings. Others will follow your lead. be a good influence. Keep your eyes28 Mulder or Don't shy away from taking a stance open for overindulgent qualities. 00 
Scully: Abbr. 46 Honshu port 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). R I D E 31 Dadaist Jean 47 Like the Annual subscriptions are available for the ATI LE ULNA 32 Sentence boondocks best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 L O P L L B L A H subject, often 48 Unaided years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
.:::, 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
. Name 

Address --------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

PORTS 
On the ball 
Notre Dame's women's bas­ketball team gears up for its regular season with a pre­season test against the Finnish Select tonight. 
page 22 


Tuesday, November 14, 2000

page 24 
New coach gives Belles fresh start 

Friday starts another season of Saint Mary's basketball and fans are anxiously waiting to see the handiwork of new head coach Suzanne Smith. 
Former 

head coach 
Dave 
Hoederlefl the pro­gram last year nJter rour years and four consecu­


tive losing 
l<atie McVoy

seas()ns that culmi­nated in a 
Inside Sairzt

4-22 sea­
Mary ·s Sports

son last winter. Smith will have her work cut out for her 
in turning this program itround. 
"There is a long history of where the (basketball! pro­gram has been and it will take some time to change that," athletic director Lynn Kachmarik said earlier this year. "I laving a full-time coach. however. will be the first step in changing that his­tory." 
Having a full time basketball coach is definitely the first step. The Saint Mary's basket­ball team has never had a full time coach. MIM rival schools, such as Hope College have had full time coaches for years that can recruit for the teams and produce successful squads. 
For the first time in its histo­ry. the Belles basketball team will be able to truly focus on recruiting and team develop­ment. These important issues. which have had to fall to the side when sharing a coach with a full lime job, should afford the Belles the ability to make some serious strides this season. Fans have supported the basketball team through the dry years and this season their waiting may pay off. 
In addition, the Belles have welcomed Sherry Donnelly to the program as an assistant wach. Donnelly is a baskt:tball player hersell' and recently tried out for the WNBA. That kind of playing experience
-should work nicely with Smith's energy. "[Donnelly and Smith! are going to bring this program to a new level. This year the women are going to get what 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
FOOTBALL 

Tibble makes big strides .as walk-on 

USA VEL TE/The Observer Holder Adam Tibble made a key pitch to kicker Nick Setta for a touchdown on a faked field goal Saturday. 
By TIM CASEY Assisrant Sporrs Editor 

When Adam Tibble is in his late 50s, he will still tell his children about Nov. 11, 2000. On Saturday, the walk-on holder from Northville. Mich., pitched to kicker Nick Setta on a fake field goal that resulted in a touchdown. The scoro gave the Irish a 28-10 lead on their way to the seventh victo­ry ol' the season. 
"Forty years from now, it'll def'initc!y be a story," Tibblc said. "That's when I know my friends and I will be glad we \Vent big-time, glad we just tried it." 
Coming out of high school. Tibble turned down offers from Ivy League schools to come to South Bend. Other walk-ons. including fullback Jeremy Juarez also received interest from lower Division 1 and Division 2 teams but came to the same conclusion. 
"There's just something about Notre Dame," Tibble said. 
Tibble found that out even more dearly on Saturday. The Irish called xfor a fake extra point earlier in the year against Stanford but decided to kick. 
Prior to the touchdown against Boston College, Davit' signaled l'or a fakn and Tibblc! had to decide whether the BC defense could stop the run. 
As Sctta ran untouched into the end zone, Tibble laid on his back after getting hit by an Eagles player. 
"I just hoard the crowd." Tibble said. "Being near tlw student section, hearing every­body -go nuts f'elt pretty good." 
Another result of' playing for the Irish? 
The attention. 
"The count (of phone calls to the Tibble resid1rnce) is still coming in," Tibblc said. "It's funny who comes out of the woodwork when they hear your name." 
Quarterback switch 
Another week. anotlwr quarterback story. 
Arnaz Battle's injury, Matt LoVecchio's emergence, Gary Godsey's switching positions and Jared Clark's change to backup have all been well doc­umented. 
And now. freshman Carlyle Holiday. the fifth-string signal caller at the beginning of the season has been named LoVccchio's backup. 
see IRISH/page 20 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 

Watson's victory propels Irish to NCAAs 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sporn Editor 
A season that looked bleak back in early August turned into the eighth appearance at the NCAA Championships in nine seasons, thanks to an individual victory by junior Luke Watson at the Great Lakes Regional meet and four 
runners  
finishing  See Also  
in the top 24.  "Irish linish eighth  
T  o p  at Great Lakes  
runners R y a n Maxwell  Regional" page21  
and Scan  
McManus  

had graduated, and Ryan Shay, counted on to repeat as an All-American. would have to redshirt the season after racing in the U.S. Olympic Trials. Even Joe Piane. Notre about Notre Dame extending its string of NCAA Championship appearances. 


"I thought we could [quali­fy]." Piane said, "but it doesn't matter what I think. It's what the kids think. 
So Piane called Watson, Notre Dame's No. 2 runner in 1999, on Aug. 10, to hash out his concerns. He asked Watson if Watson believed the Irish had a shot at qualifying for nationals if Shay ended up sit­ting out the season. 
When Watson replied with a yes, Piane's next question was whether the rest of the team believed. 
"Absolutely," Watson said. 
And the Irish started with Watson's aflirmative reply. bit by bit assigning parts in the hunt for another trip to the NCAA Championships. 
"I think we were questioning ourselves a little bit early in 
ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer 
the season." Watson said. "but 

Dame's head coach since Luke Watson finished first at the Great Lakes regional, helping 
C. see BELLES/page 22 1975, harbored his doubts see MEN/page21 the Irish earn their eighth NCAA appearance in nine years. 
vs. Finnish Select vs. Northern Michigan at Rutgers
~-;."

-.· Tuesday, 7 p.rn. . Friday, 7:05 p.m. Saturday, 3:30 p.m. 
SPORTS ~ /.
• ­
ATA Women's College Cup Big East Tournament third round 

Semifinals vs. Sacred Heart 
1, @
vs, Harvard Saturday, I p.m./2:30 p.m. Saturday, 8:30 p.m. 

GLANCE ~ 
Friday, 7 p.m 





