
The hot picks in summer flicks 
Adark day
Two movie critics say there will be more 
One letter writer says President Bush's 

Thursday
than a few thrilling movies hitting theaters 
Commencement speech will be overshadowed 
in the coming months. 
by Timothy McVeigh's execution. 
APRIL 26, 
Scene . page 15 
Viewpoint . page 13 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame andSaint Mary's 
VOL. XXXIV NO. 129 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU STUDENT SENATE 

Members approve CCC budget, hear union address 
. Senate questions allocations for club money in 2001-02 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Writer 
After almost an hour of debate and questioning. the Student Senate voted unanimously Wednesday night to approve the Club Coordination Council's 
(CCC) 2001-2002 budget. which allocates money to student clubs. 
CCC coordinator John Hagan, who presented the budget to the senate. said the CCC worked hard to make sure allocations of 

. Norton hails now as 'great time' for campus community 
By ER1N LaRUFFA 
News Writer 
Student body president Brooke Norton delivered her State of the Student Union address to the Student Senate last night, using the opportu­nity to praise both student government and students in general. 

"It is a great time for the men and women of Our Lady's University," Norton said. "We 
as a com­munity h a v e embraced diversity and inclu­sivity as n e v e r before." 


No rt o n Norton also chal­lenged student government "to work together to better our University and our 
world." 
"I assure you that Brian [Moscona. student body vice president]. the office of the president staff and I intend to continue the tradition of ser­vant leadership that has emerged here in recent years," said Norton. "We believe that the Student Union should focus on programs that allow students to think both with their heads and with their hearts." 
Norton called for research­ing "new policy initiatives." 
see ADDRESS/page 4 

its limited resources were fair to all clubs. Part of their effort included creating alloca­tion guidelines for the first time this year. according to Hagan. 
"A lot of times there was suspi­cion that we favored older. more established clubs," said Hagan. 
"All the clubs are underfunded. No club is getting all the money it needs and deserves. Every penny we've allocated is deserved by the club. " 
John Hagan 

CCC coordinator 

The CCC hopes having guide­lines will help to reduce that sus­picion. Hagan explained. He added that the CCC also intended the guidelines reduce allocations to clubs for "unnecessary expenses." 
"All the clubs are under-fund­ed. No club is getting all the money it needs and deserves," said Hagan. "Every penny we've allocated is deserved by the club." 
Senators questioned Hagan about allocations for several clubs. often organizations that the senators were members of. 
"There's a very limited amount of resources," said student body vice president Brian Moscona. "All of [the clubs] have great cases. We have to be objective." 
"All of us are in clubs. and we all know that the clubs we're in haven't gotten all the money they need," said Morrissey senator Padraic McDermott. 
McDermott asked Hagan why the College Independents received $470 when the club does not have any members. 
Hagan said the club is actively recruiting members. McDermott made a motion to 
decrease 
the College Independents' allocation by $150 in order to increase the Trident Naval Society's alloca­tion by the same amount. 
McDermott, who is a member of the society. said the club needs more money to better conduct its an annual fundraiser to raise money for the Special 
Olympics. 
"This is so necessary. McDermott said. "[Our fundrais­er] is the reason there's still Special Olympics in Saint Joseph's county." 
However. the Senate. rejected McDermott's motion. 
In addition, senators also ques­tioned why Flipside was receiv­ing significantly more money than it did this year. 
see SENATE/page 4 


Committee considers possible designs for Madeleva 

By MYRA McGRlFF Saint Mary's Editor 
The Madeleva Building Committee met Tuesday to discuss the design plan of the new Madeleva building. The committee, breaking up into small focus groups consolidated a list of 16 points into six main focus areas. 
"We are developing what is important in an academic building." said Keith Dennis, vice president of finance. 
Although all of the 16 discussed points will influence the design model. six of those will be the main focus. The committee comprised of faculty. staff and administrators brainstormed the ways beauty. learning, options for interac­tion. design, emotions/spirituality and environ­mental concepts could all be incorporated into the architectures design plan. 
Generating concepts in the small focus 

groups. each of the six main points were fully dissected to envision various ways each will fit the new building concept. 
One of the running themes throughout most of the six focus groups was the idea of social space. A social space that hopes to encompass students needs for a not only welcoming but also spiritual environment. 
One suggestion to construct such an environ­ment was to make a common space accessible from two entrances. 
"The buildings doors need to open from both sides," said Karen Ristau, dean of faulty 
Ristau also discussed an emphasis in giving students and faculty the feeling they possess a space on campus to leave their mark and make Madeleva into more than just an academic building. · 
Enlisting the help from the architectural firm MPA, the committee hopes to achieve such an endeavor. 
-· 
Thursday, April 26, 2001

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Welcome to the show 
l don't remember my first performance on stage, but my mother can tell you all about it. She still remembers I.he names of the actors, the choreography. and the techs. She remembers everything because she was there. 
By age 3, I wanted to try 
everything, and I was quite the ham. I began getting involved .in theater -com­plete with auditions and headshots. During this time, my mom allowed me to dance and jwnp and explore my interests. And, in the middle ofmy preschool years, 

I became quite the little 
Kelly Hager 
actress. 
As I grew older, I became 
more active in theater and 
dance, trying my hand at TV 
Copy Editor 
and radio. My mom was 
always there. Through all 
the rehearsals and shows, my 
mom never left my side. She sat through all the 
lessons and rehearsals. And she made it to every 
show. I could always count on her to be there 
By the time Iwas in high school. I was too old to play all the cutesy kiddy rolls, and too young to play women. I took that as an opportunity to explore the other areas of the theater. I began to work on the crew, and play in the orchestra pit. With me as a teenager, mom left me alone to fend for myself during rehearsals. But that switch didn't detour her from coming to performances. She was there for each show and each concert, ready to show her enthusiasm and support. 
And now, in college I have made my position known by accompanying shows, rather than act­ing in them. But that all changed this semester when I found myself auditioning for Gypsy. I had already been drafted to play in the pit when I was approached to try out for a stripper role. They needed someone brassy and loud. Somehow or another, my name came up, and I found myself at an audition. And before I knew it, I was onstage again. 
This show has made me realize how much ofan impact growing up in theater has had on my life. And, it also has opened my eyes. Looking back through the years, I can still remember exactly where my mom sat in I.he theater to watch me while I was on. l remember the books she read to pass the time. It is amazing which things a person will remember after it's aU said and done -near­ly 20 years ago. 
I remember the fun. I remember the experience. But most of all, I remember time well spent with my morn. During those rehearsals, I knew she was there, and that enabled me to explore things fur­ther -knowing she was there to protect me and keep me safe. 
Tonight being opening night, I feel the normal jitters creeping into my stomach. I am faced with the challenge of playing a part on stage and also covering a french horn part in the pit. But I am at ease because I know something very important: even if my stage make up has long since expired and my character shoes are way too smaU some things will never change: My mom never misses a performance. 
And although I am no longer the little girl who relies on her mom for everything, it brings a smile to my face when I look out from the stage and see my mom smiling back. My mom is my favorite audience. It's just not the same without her. 
Thanks for coming here, Mom. And thanks for always being there. Now, sit back and eryoy the show. It's a doozie. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Jason McFarley Matt Nania Myra McGriff Graphics Courtney Boyle Katie McKenna Sports Production 
Byran Kronk Jeff Baltruzak Viewpoint Lab Tech Patrick Otlewski Peter Richardson 
Th~ Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday exccp1 during exam and V2c:irion periods. The Obscn,,r is a member of the k>ociatcd Pres,. All rcproduc1ion rights arc reserved. 

THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Concert: The Oblates of  . Conference:  . Event: "An Evening with  . Theatre: "Gypsy," 2:30  
Blues, 9 p.m., Alumni  "Accountability in the  Ara," 6:30 p.m., Joyce  p.m., O'Laughlin  
Senior Club  treatment of Prisoners," 9­ Center  Auditorium  
.Theatre: "Gypsy,"8 p.m..  6 p.m .. Court Room, Law  . Film: "A Summer's  . Theatre: "Oedipus Rex,"  
O'Laughlin Auditorium  School  Tale," 7:30 p.m. and 9:45  2:30 p.m., Washington Hall  
.Theatre: "Gypsy," 8 p.m.,  p.m., Annenberg  . Concert: Notre Dame  
O'Laughlin Auditorium  Auditorium  Liturgical Women's Choir  
Basilica of the Sacred Heart  

Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
UC vice president resigns amid suspicion 
BERKELEY. Calif. 
"compromised by recent'o't.itside 
Following an academic miscon­events," leading him to step down duct scandal and multiple investi­in the best interests of the pro­gations, University of California at gram. Berkeley professor Alex Saragoza After the formal investigation by resigned Tuesday from his position the university and the Pac-10, as vice president of educational Saragoza was suspended from outreach for the UC system. teaching for the fall 2001 semester, 
The resignation follows last and the NCAA censured UC month's confirmation that Saragoza Berkeley's football program. had given two football players cred­Saragoza's suspension, which was it for classes they had not complet­announced last month, affected only ed. his UC Berkeley teaching position. It 
Saragoza's resignation from the did not affect his post with the UC UC post does not affect his teaching a spring 1999 ethnic studies class Office of the President, where he position at UC Berkeley, where he they had not completed work in or remained active until Tuesday. will be suspended from teaching had attended. In the wake of the resignation, UC next semester. In his letter of resignation, President Richard Atkinson named 
During an investigation, Saragoza Saragoza wrote that his efforts to UC Irvine Vice Chancellor Manuel admitted to retroactively enrolling oversee educational outreach for Gomez as Saragoza's interim two UC Berkeley football players in the nine UC campuses had been replacement. 

PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Black Caucus controls anti-hate rally 
UNIVERSITY PARK 

Black student leaders took control of a Pennsylvania State University-planned anti-hate rally Tuesday at Old Main, where they gained the support of thousands. After the rally, the student leaders led the crowd to the HUB-Robeson Center, where the crowd kept vigil outside a private meeting the students demanded with Penn State President Graham Spanier. After talks broke off at about 10:30 last night, university officials called the students' demands unreasonable and two black student leaders vowed not to eat until their demands were met. Student supporters remained camped out at the HUB late Tuesday night. Black stu­dent leaders were frustrated by the university's slow response to their demands, which included granting more scholarships, restructuring of the affirmative action offices and increasing faculty for the Department of African and African-American Studies. They called for another meeting to convene Wednesday morning. 

TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 
Students scrutinize 2002 bonfire 
COLLEGE STATION 
Texas A&M University students expressed skepticism at a forum Tuesday night that presented preliminary plans for Bonfire 2002. "ls this still a student Bonfire, or is this a Texas A&M Bonfire?" asked Seth Ward, a senior marketing major. Bonfire Steering Committee members presented a draft of a revamped leadership structure that will replace the traditional "pass down," in which student leaders chose their· own successors, with a nomination and committee selection process. Under a pyramid-shaped design, student leaders would report up the chain to a staff Bonfire director. Participants, at the bottom of the pyramid, would sign up for Bonfire work in residence halls and organiza­tions in the first weeks of the fall semester, said Josh Kaylor, student leadership and participation co-chair­man and a junior agricultural development major. Team leaders would be elected to represent their halls or organizations, and group leaders chosen by a selec­tion committee would represent several teams. 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather'" forecast for noon, Thursday, April 26.
AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
i
' 

Friaay \ r=-'l')-

1 

Saturd*y 
I 


_, ......... -----~



!~;~:i 
COLD WARM STATIONARY
O 2001 AaouWNlher lno. 
.;:::-.
® © D . fTI . . D ~,-: 
High Low 8hg,w.rt Aflln r..torm1 A-'rr1e• Snow le• B1.1nny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy ~Auoc:MfNPt-u
Tuest~ 
Atlanta 73 53 Las Vagas 91 66 Portland 68 50 Baltimore 63 46 Memphis 78 59 Sacramento 81 52 Booton 49 41 Milwaukee 50 43 St. LOUIS 81 59

4,~,Q,p~Q (f ~ u 
Chicago 76 53 New York 57 46 Tampa 78 54 S/'Jowars T-storms Rain Flurries Snow /cs Su1111y Pt. CtO<Jdy Cloudy 
H<,uston B2 61 Philadelphia 62 46 Washington DC 63 48 Viii Auoa,1t&d Pr8S6 Gt.aphiolNal 
Thursday, April 26, 200 l The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
University appoints Porod Center director 
Honeywell grants ND $1.28 M 
Special to The Observer 
Wolfgang Porod, a professor of electrical engineering at Notre Dame, has been named director of the University's Center for Nano Science and Technology. 
Established in 1999. the cen­ter explores the fundamental concepts of nanoscience in order to develop unique engi­neering applications using nanoprinciples. Nanoscience and nanoengineering study small devises and device-relat­ed phenomena on a spatial scale of less than one-tenth of a micron, that is, one thou­sandth lhe diameter of a human hair or roughly the size of a hydrogen molecule. The Center is composed of a multi­d is cipli nary team of researchers from the depart­ments of Electrical Engineering, Chemical Engineering. Computer Science and Engineering, Chemistry and Physics. 
In his new capacity. Porod will coordinate the center's research and educational pro­grams and serve as a focal point for the University's activ­ities in the emerging area of nanoscience and technology. One of the major research ini­tiatives within the center is the concept of computing through Quantum-dot Cellular Automata (QCA). Pioneered at Notre Dame, QCA is a new paradigm for transistorless computing -no electron flow or current. The center is the only research facility in the country addressing nanocom­puting capabilities in this fash­ion. 
A faculty member since 
1986, Porod is the coinvcntor of the QCA concept. His research focuses on solid state physics and its application to electronics; device reliability. degradation and breakdown; quantum devices and architec­tures for nanoelectronics; and the limits imposed by the laws of physics on computation. 
Porod is a senior member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and has authored 270 publica­tions and presentations. He serves on the advisory and program committees of several international meetings and is a reviewer of proposals to the National Science Foundation, NASA and several technical journals. 
The center's new director also is a founding member of the IEEE Circuits and Systems Society Technical Committee on Nanoelectronics and Gigascale Systems. He has received numerous awards, most recently the Ruth and Joel Spira Teaching Award from the College of Engineering. 
Porod earned master's and doctoral degrees in theoretical physics from the Universitiit Graz, (Austria) in 1979 and 1981. 
Formerly the center's associ­ate director. Po rod replaces Gerald J. Iafrate, who is leav­ing Notre Dame to join the fac­ulty of North Carolina State University in a senior endowed position to promote research programs and curriculum in nanoscience and engineering. Although he will no longer be a Notre Dame faculty member, Iafrate will continue collabo­rating with colleagues from the College of Engineering. 
. University will gain 5 fellowships, research fund, technical liaison 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame has entered into a five-year agreement for a $1,280.000 grant from Honeywell International I n c . , through i t s Aircraft Landing Systems business in South Bend, for doctoral fellow­ships, research and a visiting pro­fessorship in its Center for Molecularly Engineered Materials. 
The agreement initiates a long-term research alliance between Honeywell and Notre Dame. 
"This research alliance between Honeywell and Notre Dame brings together an outstanding company in the aerospace industry and an outstanding community of faculty and researchers," said Notre Dame President Father Edward Malloy. "We are confident that this rela­tionship will prove wonder­fully beneficial to the University, the company, and the region in which we mutually reside." 
"We are excited to enter this alliance with a market leader like Honeywell Aircraft Landing Systems," said James Merz, Notre 

Dame's vice president for vation and discovery in tech­graduate studies and nology and processes that research. "This collaborative will surely result." research arrangement, led The commitment made by jointly by Arvid Varma from Honeywell will provide five the Center for Molecularly doctoral fellowships, estab­Engineered Materials and lish a research initiation Dan Hayes, aerospace fellow fund, and place a technical in high temperature materi­liaison from Honeywell with­als at Honeywell, along with in the center as a visiting the opportunities provided research professor. to us through Indiana·s 21st Notre Dame's Center for Century Research and Molecularly Engineered Technology Fund, will be of Materials explores multidis­great value to our students, ciplinary fundamental con­the University, the Company cepts in materials science and the economy of and engineering with Northern Indiana." emphasis on engineering 
"This research alliance ''This research alliance agree­
agreement and grant pro­

ment and 
vides Honeywell the oppor­

grant pro­v i d e s tunity to incubate and sup­Honeywell 
port the creation ofmean­

the oppor­
ingful research collabora­

tunity to incubate tions between Honeywell and sup­
and Notre Dame's Center 

port the 
for Molecularly Engineered 

creation of mean­Materials." ingful research 
Adriane Brown

collabora­
vice president and general

t i o n s 
between manager, Honeywell Aircraft Honeywell Landing Systemsand Notre Dame's Center for Molec­
materials at the molecu­lar level. 
It is dedi­cated to the molecular level design, synthesis, characteri­zation and development of advanced materials. 
Honeywell Aircraft Landing Systems is a leading sup­plier of air­craft landing systems, wheel and brake sup­port. and repair and 

ularly Engine-ered overhaul services. Materials," said Adriane It employs more than Brown, vice president and 1,400 people worldwide and general manager of has its global headquarters Honeywell Aircraft Landing in South Bend. Systems in South Bend. "The Honeywell is a United center's expertise provides States $25-billion diversified Honeywell access to funda­technology and manufactur­mental and novel thinking. ing leader employing We look forward to the inno-approximately 120,000 peo-

Scott delivers Dante lecture 
Social to The Observer 

John Scott, author and pro­fess or emeritus at the University of Western Australia, will present a lec­ture titled "Dante -Time and Eternity" at 4:45 p.m. today in Room 102 of the Hesburgh Library at the University of Notre Dame. 
The lecture, sponsored by 
Notre Dame's Devers Program in Dante Studies, is free and open to the public and will conclude with a reception in the same loca­tion. 
Scott has published numer­ous works on Dante and Italian literature from the middle ages to the modern period, including "Dante's Political Purgatory." 
The Devers Program in 
~"w¾t»~ ¼?~~*'»*~* *~·»tt t?tt¾t'$¾l'Wc~~-~w~~~* 
: CA~APUS VIEW OFFERS: ' 
: ~  CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS  J.  
$  $  
€ $w  1801 IRISH WAY -SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 -(219) 272 -·1441 Walking Distance to Campus!  * ~ $;  
g  LOOKING FOR A"NEW VIEW"NEXT FALL?  ~  
~ ~  -~ ______________.$  
~•  -------------~$•  

W -Large, spacious opadmenfs $11,­: -Lmiled r~enovaled_Ki!d1en5 :. i¢ -~wimming Pool, lennis and Baslelball Comls ~ :-LOCATION! A short wall lo CJ Grocery Store, t : Drug Store, l~eslauranls, and CAMPUS! : \$ -Affordable Pricing '1' 
~ ~ 
¢ $ 
$ R,,gi~leP lo win a free TV will, 12 monlh lease! $1 
~ $ti, 
t w•J;•,•!f I ····••*-••~···············~----· 
NEED A JOB FOR NEXT YEAR? 
Student Activities has openings for 
£a.J,.oA1:muz S1ud.,ud IJ.uil.din.q 'Yfl.mu:upJ,A 
for the 2001-2002 academic year. 

Applications avallablE outside t:he Student: Activities Office. 315 LaFortune. 
For morE lrTforrnatlori. pleasE contact: 5-tuden-t Actlvl1:1Es. G31-?30B. 
Dante Studies was estab­lished in 1995 with a $1-mil­lion endowment gift from William and Katherine Devers. In addition to spon­soring an annual lecture series, the Devers program funds rare book acquisitions in the University's historic Dante collection and supports print and electronic publica­tion of scholarly research in the field of Italian studies. 
STUDENT 
WANTED FOR HELP WITH 
ND WEBSITE.. 
INFO@ NDNATION.COM 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print ~carch service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 


Thursday, April 26, 2001 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Senate 
continued from page l 

"It's one of our best clubs," Hagan said. "They've had an event every weekend this year and next year they're going to add other events." 
In general. Hagan explained. when the CCC determines how much money to allocate clubs, it considers factors such how much money clubs currently have in their accounts and what the CCC believes realistic for clubs to be able to do next year. 
"Usually the clubs that have done a good job this year have a chance of being greal next year," Hagan said. 
Lewis senator Jennie Flannery said it might make sense to allow clubs to see how much money they have been allocated before the senate voted to approve the allocations. 
However, after Hagan pointed out that all clubs have the opportu• nity to appeal their allocations, the Senate did not act to delay approving the CCC budget. The CCC has a contingency fund of $15,500 to be used in case of appeals. 
"This is not the end all, be all of money that clubs can get," said Student Union secretary Tai Romero, adding that there are numer­ous sources that clubs can obtain funds necessary for running special events. 
In other senate news: 

. 
The Office of the Student Body President is looking into having an off-campus security meeting for students. according to the office's chief of staff. Jonathan Jorissen. 

. 
The Senate Committee on University Affairs has begun a report that will look at study and social space at other universities, accord· ing to committee chairman Mark Roland, the senator from Zahm Hall. 

. 
Student body president Brooke Norton delivered her State of the Student Union address to the senate and reported that the Student Union is "strong." 



Scully names Seamon executive assistant 
Spcical lo The Observer 
Father Timothy Scully, University executive vice presi­dent, has announced the appointment of Michael Seamon as his executive assistant. 
S e a ­mon, a N o tr e D am e alumnus w i t h 

Seamon

bachelor's and mas-ter's degrees in business, has most recently served as assis­tant to Notre Dame's vice pres­ident for business operations, James Lyphout. His appoint• ment as executive assistant to Scully will be effective May 15. 
In his new role, Seamon will assist Scully with a variety of executive office responsibilities. 

"Mike Seamon is an out• standing young product of Notre Dame who. beginning as a graduate student intern, has acquired an impressive knowl­edge of the University's com­plex and multifaceted business and marketing operations," 
Do you cav-e about isstAes affectin9 the Saint Mav-y's 
COWH1'\LH'' if}:'? 

Do yo«A like to wv-ite? 
Call The Obsev-vev-'s SaiV\t Ma,,..y's depav-tment at 631-4324. 
Scully said of the appointment. "Mike also is very involved in the spiritual life of campus, both in liturgies and as a vol­unteer leader in Campus Ministry programs. I'm truly pleased to make him a mem• ber of my administrative team." 
As assistant to the vice presi• dent for business operations since 1997, Seamon has han­dled a wide range of project responsibilities involving the University's officers, Trustees and various University commit• tees. Among these, he oversaw a review of the University's purchasing procedures, helped to organize a major campus planning project, and directed a needs analysis for a new campus hotel. 
Prior to returning to Notre Dame, Seamon served form 1995.97 as the first director of sales and marketing -and one of the first three employees -of the Tampa Bay Devil Rays baseball franchise. As a key player in the start-up of the franchise, he was involved in activities from stadium renova­tions to the sale of private suites to the design and mar­keting of team merchandise, and more. 
Address 
continued from page 1 

although she did not mention any new policy areas that stu­dent government might research. 
Norton said student govern­ment should strive "to work on 

All You Women Independent Throw Your Hands Up For 

4:45-7 Picnic

2-8 Freaky Fotos/ Thursda ·. 26 
DinnerMega Hits 
8:00 Comedian2-4 Canoe Races Hypnotist inon Lake Marion 

Carroll 3-7 DJ /Bouncy Auditorium Boxing /Climbing 
l0:00 Drive inWall /Giant Slide / 

Movie Charlie's
Caricatures / 
Angels on
Balloon Artist Library Green 

Sponsored By Student Activities Board Holy Cr0$ IN.D. studen~ may pick up eo-ex tickets at Haggar Front Desk 
social and study space improvements, to provide more campus unifying events and to create multicultural awareness on campus." 
The office of the president will also focus on financial aid. faculty-student interaction, gender issues and campus life, Norton said. She added that communicating with students is vitally important to student government's efforts. 
"As a Student Union, we are challenged to communicate more openly with the student body, and to be their voice in every way we can," Norton told the senate. 
The Student Union's consti· tution requires Norton to give such an address to the senate. 


RL 
ATION 
Thursday, April 26, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Atomic waste rolls into France: 
Thousands of police prevented demonstrators from blocking a train carrying nuclear waste on Wednesday, escorting the train into France on its way to Hritain for reprocessing. The train, carrying five containers of spent fuel rods from two southern German nuclear plants, crossed the border near the German town of Woerth in the early evening. The containers are to be taken to the port of Dunkirk overnight, where French environmentalist.:; said they would con­tinue the demonstrations. 
Woman celebrates I 15th birthday: A French woman believed to be the world's old­est person celebrated her 115th birthday Wednesday with a glass of white wine. Marie Bremont, who lives in a retirement home in Cande. donned a red suit for the occasion, receiving kisses on the check. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Harvard protest continues: With chanting on campus and unshaven students leaning out the windows of an occupied build­ing, Harvard University has the feeling of the 1960s this week. More than. three dozen stu­dents have occupied the office of university president Neil Rudenstine since April 18. They are demanding "a living wage" for Harvard's custodians, cooks and other blue-collar work­ers. "With a $19 billion endowment and a gov­erning board of multimillionaires, Harvard has no excuse for perpetuating poverty conditions," said Aaron Bartley, a 25-year-old law student. 
Genetic test may predict cancer. A 
simple genetic test can help doctors accurately predict whether people with common white patches inside their mouths are likely to devel­op deadly oral cancer. The technique developed at the University of Oslo could help physicians assess patients with the patches, called oral leukoplakia, so they can be treated early if cancer appears likely. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Father gets probation after daugh­ter has gun: The father of a 6-year-old Indianapolis girl who brought a loaded gun to school in March was sentenced to 18 months probation Wednesday. Marion County Superior Court Judge Cale Bradford also sentenced Calvin Sistrunk, 29, to 40 hours community ser­vice and ordered him to write letters to Marion County schools urging parents to keep firearms away from children. Bradford said he knows that there are parents keeping guns in closets and under mattresses and that children are snooping in those hiding places. 
Market Watch April 25 

Dow 
10,625.20 +170.86 

Jones 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURllY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.26 -0.53 15. 73 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)-6.03 -1.03 16.05 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +1.81 +B.80 45 .10 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.38 -0.11 29.03 JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU) -2.55 -0.53 20. 29 
ISRAEL 

Explosion near border kills 4 

Associated P re,s 
JERUSALEM 
An explosion near the Gaza Strip's southern border with Egypt killed four Palestinian police on Wednesday, said Palestinian sources, who gave conflicting accounts of how the blast occurred. 
Gaza police commander Ghazi Jibali said three bombs were planted near a school in Ilafah. He said police defused two but the third exploded, blaming the attack on Palestinians working for the Israelis. 
However. a spokesman for the Popular Resistance group gave a different version. He said three of its members, who are also Palestinian police, were on their way to plant a bomb when 

Israeli forces ambushed them. 
Four police officers were killed, and six other Palestinians were wound­ed, hospital officials said. 
The Popular Resistance group is associated with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's Fatah movement and has taken responsi­bility for mortar attacks and bombings against Jewish settl.ements and soldiers in the past. 
The Israeli military said it knew nothing about the explosion. 
Fearing Palestinian attacks, Israeli police reinforced by soldiers patrolled in large num­bers in Jerusalem and vacation spots as Israel's Independence day cele­brations began Wednesday. 
In a holiday interview, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said his forces op1Hate inside Palestinian-controlled ter­ritory, known as 'Area A', almost daily. "There is no defense for terrorists because of the fact that they are in Area A," he told army radio. 
Israeli officials spoke of easing restrictions on the Palestinians if seven months of violence wanes. 
One proposal being con­side red is to use the desert oasis town of Jericho as a model, removing travel restric­tions and encouraging business there to return to normal, said an Israeli official, requesting anonymity. 
But until Friday morn­ing, after the indepen­
dence day observance, crossing points between Israel and the Palestinian territories were to be closed tight to prevent attacks, the military said. 
The holiday, marking Israel's 53rd birthday, started with an abrupt transition from the memorial day for soldiers who died in Israel's wars. Soldiers in formation at the Mt. Herzl military cemetery passed symbolic flags from one unit to another, and somber music gave way to fire­works as the festivities began. 
Sharon. meanwhile. confirmed that Arafat had ordered a stop to the fir­ing of mortars at Jewish settlements in Gaza and Israeli villages outside the territory. 
Associated Pres.o 
DAVENPORT, Iowa 
Amid all the frantic sandbagging and levee building, Davenport's minor Jeague ba,seball team has been forced out of town by high water for the third time in the past decade. 
The Quad-City River Bandits are playing their home games on high­er, drier ground in Illinois, across 

. the swollen Mississippi River. Not that everyone minds -70-year-old John O'Donnell Stadium may have a river view, but it's no field of dreams. Teams hate the locker rooms and the drainage -well, the drainage is lousy. 
Horne plate was floating outside along the first base line Wednesday, slowly moving with the current. Only the tip of the white cover on the pitching mound could be seen through the brown flood­waters. 

Colorful ads on the outfield wall ­Blue Bunny ice cream, AC Delco auto parts and Iowa-American Water Co. -were reflected in about 3 feet of water. "Thirsty?" asks an ad for the bottled water company. 
"It's sad. I can't even put it into words how it makes me feel," said Josh Krueger. 24, who moved from bis home in Fargo, N.D., last November to pursue his lifelong dream of working for a baseball team. Now he and six other team employees are looking for new jobs. 
Dozens of homes across the region have been swamped by floodwaters this spring, fueling debate over whether Davenport should build permanent flood protection. The city is the largest on the upper Mississippi without it. 
The River Bandits have been play­ing home games at Black Hawk College in Moline, 111., where team owner Kevin Krause has floated the possibility of relocating. Ile notes that the team has been washed out before, in 1993 and 1997. 
"Absolutely no revenue coming in. It's devastating from that perspec­tive," he said. "The nominal fans we get to come up to Black Hawk College certainly don't pay the bills." 
Kent Kolwey, Davenport's finance director and acting administrator, said the city would explore the pos­sibility of federal funding to help with floodwall protection for the stadium. 

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 26, 200 I 
Officials set controls on Calif. energy prices 
Bush warns China about Taiwan 
trations have been purposely vague on whether the United States would go to war with China over Taiwan. as opposed to arming Taiwan well enough to enable the island to defend itself. 
Bush, who promised a more plain-speaking foreign policy during the 2000 campaign, didn't mince words when asked if he was willing to use military force if China attacked Taiwan. "It's cer­tainly an option." he said. 
He did not directly respond when asked if his position would change if Taiwan should declare independence. 
"I will certainly hope that Taiwan would not do such. Our policy is a one-China poli­cy -that the two nations can resolve their disputes peace­fully," Bush said. "And we made the front-pages of Taiwan's leading newspapers and were broadcast ctt the top of TV newscasts. 


At the State Department, spokesman Philip Hecker was pressed by reporters on whether U.S. policy had changed. 
"Let the president speak for himself." Reeker said. "I think he was very clear on that. And he said, very specifically, nothing has changed in our policy. 
"Our policy hasn't changed today, It didn't change yester­day. It didn't change last year. It hasn't changed, in terms of what we have fol­lowed since 1979 with the passage of the T.iiiwan Relations Act." 
Reeker also said the United 
S t a t e s 
expects 
Associated Pr~u 
WASHINGTON 
Federal energy regulators directed limited price controls on California's wholesale electricity markets Wednesday, but the order fell short of the sweeping price caps California ofl1cials have wanted. 
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission voted 2-1 to order that wholesale prices be capped in California when electricity reserves fall below 7 percent. triggering an emergency alert by the state's power grid managers. 
FERC chairman Curtis Hebert, a Republican, said the order seeks to "balance" the need to protect against unrea­sonable prices and still encourage investment in power plants and promotion of conservation measures. 
But another commissioner, Democrat William Massey, said the commission's requirement is a "half a loaf solution" to the electricity cri­
"The evidence is

sis plaguing which are California and persuasive that the expected to the rest of the become worse
problem [of unfair

West. He said this summer
prices] exists 24 hours
the price con­as electricity trols apply too a day seven days demand narrowly and increases and
a week." 

are dependent supplies con• on California's tinue to lag. agreeing to join WIiiiam Massey Rep. Jay a regional fnslee, D­
FERC commissioner 
power trans­mission group, something the state has not wanted to do. 

"The order turns into a pumpkin and will have no effect" if California does not join the northwest in a joint power transmission system, said Massey. 
The three-member commis­sion struggled all day to craft a price-mitigation plan. Three times, a public hearing on the measure was postponed as behind-the-scene negotiations continued. Finally, the three commissioners emerged and approved the measure, with Massey opposing it. 
Hebert, the Republican chairman, was joined in sup­port of the order by commis­sion er Linda Breathitt, a Democrat. 
Breathitt said that despite Massey's criticism, overall "w.e have reached a consensus that price mitigation should occur" in the California mar­ket. 
Under the order price, con­trols would be triggered only if California grid managers declare a Stage 1 emergency because electricity reserves fell to below 7 percent. 
The FERC staff had recom­
mended that price controls 
occur just in Stage 3 emer• 
gencies -the most severe ­
in which there is only a 1.5 
percent reserve and rolling 
blackouts are imminent. 
Massey said the price con­trols should not be triggered by an emergency declaration but should be in effect all the time. "The evidence is persua­sive that the problem [of unfair prices) exists 24 hours a day, seven days a week," Massey said. 
In issuing the order, Hebert reiterated his strong opposi• tion to broader price limits based on producers' cost of generation. Reflecting the views of the Bush administra­tion, Hebert said he continues to believe "the best solution to California problems are mar• ket-based solutions." 
However, the commission's action reflects growing pres­sure on both FERC and the Bush administration to take additional action to ease the West's power problems, 
Wash., said 

Wednesday night that some price action was a step in the right direc• tion but complained that the FERC order "ignores the Northwest, like we floated in the sea." 
Earlier this week, a group of Senate Democrats and one Republican from the Northwest introduced legisla­tion to require FERC to impose broader price caps on electricity markets across the West and peg them to the cost of power production. FERC continues to reject such caps. 
The FERC order focuses pri• marily on California and none of the price• mitigation requirements would apply to the Northwest, where some wholesale electricity prices have in recent weeks been even higher than those in California. 
However, FERC did direct that an agency investigation on whether some prices have been unreasonably high should be extended from California to other parts of the West. Massey said that inves­tigation is far too narn.w and will be ineffective. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
President Bush said Wednesday that U.S. military force is "certainly an option" if China invades Taiwan. 
T h e 
president also cau­tioned Taiwan not to provoke an attack by declar­ing inde­


pendence Bush f r o m Beijing. "I would certain.Iy hope that Taiwan would not do such a thing," Bush said in an interview with The Associated Press. 
And the president said he believes the United States and China will work out their dif­ferences peacefully. "I believe the difficulties can be resolved," he said. 
Bush spoke on the heels of China's detention of 24 U.S. airmen and his decision to sell arms to Taiwan. 
His remarks on Taiwan were an unusually blunt warning to China that the United States is willing to use its military might to uphold the 1979 Taiwan Relations Act. That law requires Washington to provide Taiwan with "such defense articles and defense services ... as may be necessary to enable Taiwan to maintain a sufficient self-defense capa­bility." 
China considers Taiwan a breakaway province that must be reunited with the mainland. 
For decades, U.S. adminis­got to understand that is earlier in the day on ABC's clearly an option." "Good Morning America," 
need to work  "Our policy is a one•  "any dispute  
with the Taiwanese so that does not occur -the  China policy -that the two nations can resolve their disputes peacefully.  to be resolved peacefully." And he  
breach of the  And we need to work  reassured  
one-China policy." Asked again  with the Taiwanese so that does not occur ­ Beijing the B u s h administra­ 
if  military  the breach ofour one­ tion adheres  
force is an option, Bush  China policy."  to a one­China poli­ 
said, "It's cer­ cy.  
tainly  an  President Bush  In  an  
option.... The  interview  
Chinese have  broadcast  

The Taiwan Foreign Bush was asked if the United Ministry had no immediate States has an obligation to comment Thursday about defend Taiwan. "Yes, we do, Bush's remarks. and the Chinese must under­
To avoid inciting China, the stand that," he said. Taiwanese government tradi­With the full force of the tionally remains low key in U.S. military? "Whatever it the wake of favorable devel­took to help Taiwan defend opments or diplomatic victo­herself." Bush replied without ries. But Bush's comments elaboration. 

Thursday, April 26, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Dems to use I00-day mark to criticize Bush 
MTV denies blame for injuries 
in the rain. dressed in a hospi­performed on the show. MTV
Associated Press 

tal gown. also tells viewers it docs not 
The Kentucky victim broke accept tapes submitted by 
NEW YORK his leg and suffered other viewers who want to be on 
MTV says it's upsetting when injuries when he hurtled over "Jackass." young peop~e injure themselves the hood of a car intentionally The network strengthened its with the popular show driven into him by friends. disclaimer and moved the show "Jackass" in mind but insists it Garry Edmondson, the from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. after i s n ' t 
Kenton County attorney, told the Connecticut incidents and responsible NBC's "Today" show on after complaints from U.S. Sen. for viewers Wednesday that he was looking Joseph Lieberman, the former who try into whether MTV bore some Democratic vice presidential dangerous legal responsibility for the inci­candidate. stunts. dent. "Certainly they are Although MTV said "Jackass" 
The show morally.culpable," he said. is aimed at viewers age 18 to is in the "Today" showed video six 24 and carries a TV-MA rating, m e d i a times of the boy flipping over its executives admitted in a let­glare after the car. ter to Lieberman that one-third
Lieberman

a handful MTV executives would not of the show's audience is 17 or of copycat comment on "Jackass" younger. cases and an incident in Wednesday. A spokeswoman, Lieberman believes MTV Kentucky on Monday in which Jeannie Kedas, said it's bears some responsibility for friends filmed a 16-year-old "incredibly upsetting" when copycat stunts and should boy being hit by a car -young people hurt themselves, rethink the show, said the sen-although there was some ques­but MTV is ator's tion about whether "Jackass" not respon­spokesman.
"It's not like there are

had anything to do with that sible. Dan Gerstein. case. "We're thousands ofkids run~ "You don't "Jackass" premiered in taking this want to over­
ning into the streets 

October and quickly became very seri­exaggerate the
imitating things they've 

MTV's most popular series. Its ously and influence of the star, Johnny Knoxville. has we're taking seen on the show. But if show," Gerstein been doused with pepper a closer said. "It's not
these things add up, and 

spray, sat in a portable bath­look at the like there are 
someone gets seriously 

room when it was tipped over, show, but thousands of and lay down on a barbecue in we haven't hurt by them, it raises kids running a fire-resistant suit hung with made any into the streets
some questions. " 

steaks. decisions," imitating things 
A 13-year-old Connecticut Kedas said. they've seen on boy suffered second-degree S h e Dan Gerstein the show. But if burns imitating the steak stunt wouldn't Sen. Joe Liebennan spokesman these things in January. An 11-year-old say what add up, and boy, also from Connecticut, options are someone gets was burned copying a stunt being considered. "Jackass," seriously hurt by them, it rais­where he soaked a rag with which airs Sundays at 10 p.m. es some questions." engine degreaser, wrapped it ET, has ended its season of There was some doubt around his leg and set it on original episodes and is about Wednesday whether "Jackass" fire. to go into reruns. had anything to do with the 
On Sunday, a 19-year-old MTV runs a disclaimer, both Kentucky incident. The Minnesota man told police he orally and in print, at the Independence, Ky., police was inspired by "Jackass" beginning of each "Jackass" department said in its report when he stopped traffic by run­episode telling viewers they that the boys were copying ning around with a chain saw shouldn't reenact any activity "Jackass." 
Associated P re,s 
WASHINGTON 

Democrats are using the 100­<lay mark for President Bush to launch a counterattack on an administration it says is beholden to big business and dedi­cated to a tax cut over all other pri­orities. 
T h e y 

Bush 

a r e releasi'rig information critical of the Bush administration to lawmakers and party members, and run­ning ads, as are numerous interest groups that lean Democratic. 
"We have to make sure everybody in America clearly understands what this Bush administration 
chairman of clearly understands 
t h e 
what this Bush 

Democratic 
National administration is Committee. all about. ,,
Separately, environmental 
Terry McAuliffe 

groups, women's DNC chainnan 
groups and organized labor are putting together cam­paign-sty le events in various states and running ads critical of the White House. 
Democrats are readying tele­vision ads that say Bush and his fellow Republicans are not "fighting for the priorities of America's working families." Democrats initially will invest $100,000 for the ad, starting this week in the Washington, D.C., area. 
It criticizes the Bush admin­istration for attempts to roll back regulations, showing a lit­tle girl asking for more arsenic in her water and a little boy asking for salmonella on his sandwich. 
Democrats set up a Web site on the first 100 days; Republicans planned to post Bush's accomplishments on the party's Web site soon. 
Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., told fel­low Democrats that he's learned the meaning of "com­passionate conservative." 
"It means he's compassionate for conservatives,"Daschle said to laughter. 
A 153-page booklet prepared by the Democratic National 
Committee 
wiU be distrib­
is all about," 
'We have to make sure

said Terry uted to McAuliffe, everybody in America Democratic 
members of Congress, Democratic governors and members of the DNC. 
W h i t e House spokes­woman Claire Buchan said the president 
is addressing top American pri­orities, citing Bush's education plans, innovative proposals for social programs and tax cuts. "He trusts the people with their O¼TI money." 
anTostal • • • having fun since 1967 
~its' here! 
Today 4-7 pm 

• • • campus bands @ fieldhouse mall 
~ ~ 
0~ 
• • • troopnd@ fieldhouse mall 
• • • food and fun@ fieldhouse mall o~ snocones and cotton candy fun and games on north quad 
~~ 4-6pm 
~! 
• • • slip and tide on south quad slip and slide with bubbles 
~] 
• • • karoke (SDH) . • • • ACOUSTIC AnTostal 
Tomorrow

en g 
Pl 
• • • Breakfast 9.30£10.40 classes 
4-7 pm 
• • • DJ 
a, 
fieldhouse mall • • • Inflatables

:z-~ 
• • • Tie Dyeing


~~ 
north quad 
8pm 
• • • KGB Concert north quad 



page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 26, 200 I 
The Graduation Card That Counts. 
i!J ERNST &YOUNG 
John Porac 

• Oir<ct: (41 lJ 6l4-7BOO f,x: llll)i,U-115!1 ioh•.JJCl"'•'l'·com 
all ERNST& YOUNG 
Palrid Paquette 
• o:,t<t: mo, nl-4000

• ""'' 6¥•'"'1 llr
Su,,. 4l00 f•,: (7101 ?J 1-4444 )10 I Ith lh•" l"-"k.p,qu,,1e•ey.com
o.n..,, Color•do 80201 
alERNST & YOUNG 
Jill Schuler 
• lr•I & Y"""I llP ¦ Dirl!d: 16111 J0-1000 1400 Pilljbu1yCerttr f•x: (6121 )]9-17!6 100 Sooth S..1h 51,e,t jill.Khul!ftey.com MinorapJlis, Mnrcsdd-S.541.11 
Ell ERNST& YOUNG 
Megan Fischer 
• !rMI & y,..,, llP • Dir<ct: 171ll 711> l,O(l Su~, 7;1.MI fa,: !71)1750-llOI f2l I Mc Kin""Y S•t'el meg.,ari.lischet•r-t-rnm H001100, TtM,s 711110 
all ERNST&YOUNG 
Daniel Golish 
¦ lrMI & Y°""& LLP • Dirl!d:12161801-SOOII 1ll>O ~l1m1mgton Buildmz fax: tl 161 l6J.l013 '92& (uthcf Averil.ff' d.lniN.goli,'11,e,y.com Cloveland, Ohio 4411 l 
s!l ERNST& YOVNG 
Jeanne Nurthen 
• lrn,1 & Y°""! llP ¦ Di<tct: (7)2) ll&·l4lll' 
'JtJ Wood ltVfflur South f,x: 17311116-4429 lselin~ New )aK'f 08830 j!annr,nurthenl'ey.con, 
e!J ERNST&YOUNG 
Casey Russell 

• Imo! 6 Yo""I u, • Di1«1: iMli l&&-lO!XJ 2f'IO Cl.aren&in !:ttt'M: r.. fM'm,,-1841 8oilon. M,,oac~-02116 r,1i,y.t1tHAIW~.mm 
illERNST&YOUNG 
Scott Soderstrom 

¦ 1...1I. Yo"" Ur • Oi,«1: '3121871-2000 S.•~ fow,r fa: llllJ879-4000 ZJJ South W•d" Dnvt scatsoJer:,tromWr:!f,Com Chbgo, 111,001160.{M;-oJOI 
e!J ERNST&YOUNG 
Laura Cardile 

• D;r«1:IJllJ 87HOOO 
SHrsTow,rr f.n.: 012)679-40CXl 
2JJ Sooth w,de< D<ivo !.iut.1.nrdile•ey.com 
~ic,go, lllinoi• 606(M;-6J0I 
• "'"'" v • .,. u, 
§!I ERNST&YOUNG 
Usha Gollapudi 

¦ 1,..1Ii Y1JW13 UP ¦ D0«1: llll) 879-)(1(1(1 ~~r,:Tower f•c: 1)1!)879-40{)(1 Zll South Wackor D,;,. u,ha.gollapudil•"l'·com Ch~•go. lllrnou 6Do0o•6J0I 
s!/ ERNST&YOUNG 
Brian Dixon 

• lrNI I.Youog Ur • rn,tct urn s1~-2000 
Stal'S Towrr fax: 131 ll 879-4000 2ll Sooth Wack" 011,,. bfi.n.d1MooPPy.com Chicago, llliooi, 60o(M;-6J0I 
alERNST&YOUNG 
Phillip Mishka 

¦ lrlllt lY011111llP • Dirtct: fll 2) 879-lllOO 5-P;uiTo~, fax: !JI!) 67~-4011(1 UJ SotJlh Wacl,e: Dri\T phill1p.mi,hka•ey.com Chic,1,go, il!inoh60u0&-6l01 
i!J ERNST &YOUNG 
Suzanne Seymoure 
¦ fm1U, You"I Ur • Dir«!: IJ I l) &7?•lrl00 Se,u,TcwN f..1lt: lJl1) 879--4\IOO 233 SotfhWM:~I Ofl\,'P llJl,H'lnf' U!')'fllffltfl".')'(Dm 0-cago, 111:,.,;, 601,()1,.6!01 
all ERNST& YOUNG 
Allison Webb 
• llMI I. VOV"f LLr • Di<t<t IJ 121 87')-2(}(1(1 SNn. J,owpr f,x: lllli !/9-4(~1(1 
l.ll So.-h W.ch, Ori"< •lli1on,wtbb•t:t,com O,iugo, lllmoiJ (,Ol,Of...(,J(i1 
alERNST & YOUNG 
Adam Moyer 
¦ !ntl lo Vov"I LLP • Di<tcl: ISIJJ 611-6454 HOO Chi~•I~ C~nltt f.11c; lilll 72J . J07 llU E,~ f,nh 51,.,., o1d.tm.in~•q,.cClm Cincin,nali, Ohio 4)1-0l 
Ell ERNST &YOUNG 
Daniel Leatherma11 
• lm•I &iYoungUI" ¦ Dirl'CI: !415) 1.1'51•10011 Suite 17(1(1 f,x: 14151411-84411 515 C•liiomi.l Slrrrt do1niel.l,athrm1.1neey.com ~., h.ir<:.:0. Cal,Jo,n.i 94 IOI 
s!/ ERNST&YOUNG 
Arlie Belschner 

s!l ERNST&YOVNG 
Alex Jackson 
• lnHI & Young LIP • Di<«I: (611114%,lf,OO l45l Califomi,1;.A\'tnot Fax: 1&101 4?6-46611 Palo/\lto, C.ilifotni• 9004 ,1e~+~cksonfey.c001 

Welcome To Our Summer Interns 
Katie Duggan  Chicago  Benjamin Thomas  Chicago  
Stephanie Frater  Chicago  Megan McCauley  Seattle  
Debra Keim  Chicago  Craig Morin  Boston  
T. J. Brecht  Chicago  Ryon Allen  Cleveland  
Wendy Brueggman  Chicago  Luke Watson  Minneapolis  

s!J ERNST&YOUNG 
' ,. 
FROM THOUCHT TO flNISH.'M 


Thursday, April 26, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Wildfires cut off road access in Florida Keys 
Associated Press 
KEY LARGO, Fla. 

Highway traflic to and from the Florida Keys flowed freely Wednesday evening after rain dampened a wildfire that reduced visibility and periodi­cally closed the only two roads connecting the island chain to the mainland. 
Highway officials had opened U.S. 1, the main two­lane highway across the Keys, earlier in the day for the first time since Monday, but then closed it again because smoke had ham­pered visibili­ty. 
closed it for just over three hours. 
The two highways separate at Florida City, about 35 miles southeast of Miami, then cross coastal marshland and bridges before recon­necting on Key Largo, where 
U.S. 1 becomes the Overseas Highway for Key West. 
The wildfires were not threatening the area's few structures, but tourism was taking a hit. 
"Our business has dropped a good 40 percent,"said Craig Smith, manager of the Islamorada Fish Company restaurant. "It's killing us." 
Backfires were set to 
R a i n "We had a good rain try to keep Wednesday the flames
that soaked a lot ofthe

evening had from spread­
fire area. We don't

helped extin­ing into near­guish enough anticipate any growth b y of the flames Ev e r g·l a d e s 
in the fire. " 

to reduce the National smoke, fire Park, after officials said. Lee Stringer wind pushed "We had a the blaze
Miami-Dade fire chief 

good rain that soaked a lot of the fire area," said Miami-Dade Fire Chief Lee Stringer. "We don't anticipate any growth in the fire." 
Stringer said it was not likely that U.S. 1 would close again Wednesday night. 
The highway was first closed Monday by a brushfire that has burned across 10,000 acres. 
Earlier Wednesday, the island chain was isolated from the mainland when smoke limited visibility to about a foot on Card Sound Road, and state troopers 
that way on 
Monday. 
Elsewhere in Florida, smoke blew into Gainesville from a 750-acre grass fire in a swampy area. No homes were threatened and the blaze was 60 percent con­tained by Wednesday after­noon, a forestry official said. 
The National Weather Service's forecast through the weekend called for scattered showers and thunderstorms in the southern half of the state. 
Through Tuesday, 2,240 fires statewide had charred 177,410 acres since Jan. 1. 

Bush to compromise on taxes 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
For the first time, President 
Bush indicated a willingness 
Wednesday to roughly split the 
difference on tax cuts and asked 
moderate 
Democratic 
senators to 
help boost 
the size of 
the tax 
reduction 
Repub­
licans want 
to push 
through 
Congress. 

Bush lobbied five Senate 
Democrats in the Oval Office 
Wednesday and, in an interview 
with The Associated Press, con­
ceded that Congress would not 
approve the full $1.6 trillion, 10­
year tax cut he has promoted for 
months as the best way to add 
spark to the economy. While the 
House has approved a 2002 bud­
get that included Bush's full tax 
plan, the Senate version limited 
the tax reduction to $1.2 trillion. 
"I want to get it done," Bush 
said, adding, "It's going to be less 
than 1.6 [trillion dollars] and 
greater than 1.2 and we've got to 
figure out how to make it work." 
The president said his priority 
was for the tax package to 
include his plan to reduce 
income-tax rates. 

According to one Republican 
knowledgeable about Bush's 
meetings with Democrats, the 
White House was seeking sup­
port for a $1.34 trillion tax cut 
for 2002 through 2011, a bit less 
than the midway point between 
the House and Senate. In addi­
tion, there would be $60 billion 
more in tax cuts in 2001 aimed 
at quickly stimulating the econo­
my. 

Bush spent much of the morn­
ing, along with Vice President 
Dick Cheney and other White 
House officials, meeting individu­
ally with centrist Democratic senators in hopes of winning their support for a bigger tax reduction than the Senate approved. 

At least initially, moderate Democrats seemed to be resist­ing Bush's offer, indicating that completing a compromise budget could take time. 
One of them, Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., said he urged Bush "to take a long hard look" at the lesser amount the Senate had approved. 
"He wasn't too happy with that," Baucus said. 
Democrats said they want more of the tax cut distributed to lower-income people than Bush has proposed, plus more spend­ing for agriculture, education, prescription drug benefits and other programs. Bush wants to let spending for many programs grow by 4 percent next year, half the level the Senate approved in its budget and well below recent annual increases. 
"I made it pretty clear I had to see more details of what they would support on the tax cut" and restoring spending cuts Bush proposed in his budget, said Sen. 
is members of that group that the White House is trying to per­suade to go even higher. 
Other moderate Democratic senators who met Wednesday with Bush included Robert Torricelli of New Jersey. Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Max Cleland of Georgia. 
Sen. John Breaux, D-La., who has emerged as the leader of the centrists, had dinner with Bush at the White House Tuesday evening. 
After their visits with Bush, a half-dozen Democratic senators met among themselves. Torricelli said the group agreed "to stay together" in the effort to shape the budget. 
House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-111., acknowledged the gaps over spending and taxes between the two chambers, say­ing, "Probably somewhere in between is where we're going to come out." 
House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., predicted problems for the GOP. 
"Every time they step it (the tax cut) up a dollar, they've got to take a dollar out of education 
or out of 

Blanche Lincoln, D-Ark., who also met  "I want to get it done. It's going to be less than r.6  health care or out of the environment,"  
with the presi­dent. With the Senate divided  [trillion dollars] and greater than I .2 and we've got to figure out  he told reporters. "It's going to be a very painful  
50-50 between  how to make it work. "  exercise  on  
the two parties  their side."  
and two moder­ate Republicans reluctant to  George W. Bush president  Meanwhile, House-Senate bargainers  
support a deep­ held a public  
er tax  reduc­ meeting to for­ 

tion, many GOP leaders and mally begin their effort to reach White House officials believe a compromise on the budget. they will need support from The near $2 trillion fiscal plan is some Democrats to increase the for 2002, which begins Oct. 1. tax cut's size. The budget is a guide Congress 
Though Democratic leaders will use as it writes bills that will backed a $750 billion tax cut, 15 actually finance programs and Senate Democrats voted to cut taxes. GOP leaders hope to approve a GOP-written budget complete a compromise and earlier this month permitting push it through Congress next $1.2 trillion in tax reductions. It week. 
Clinton opens home to donors 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton opened her Washington home to Democratic donors for the first time Wednesday, playing host for a fund-raiser to help a cash-strapped Senate colleague. 
About 150 people who paid $1,000 each got only a glimpse of Clinton's $2.8 million Embassy Row home. Guests, who included Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle and Democratic National 
Committee Chairman Terry 
McAuliffe, were taken through the house to a large tent set up in the backyard for white wine and trays of tiny crab cakes, proscuitto and other appetizers. A man 
politely blocked the entrance to 
the yellow living room, and guests did not venture upstairs, said Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D­Calif. 

At the end of Clinton's street, eight protesters carried signs: "Madame Hillary's house of ill­repute," read one sign. "Count the silverware," read another. 
The event was to help fresh­man Sen. Maria Cantwell of Washington state retire a hefty campaign debt. Cantwell, who made millions as an Internet executive, lost much of her for­tune when the stock market tum­bled. As of April 1, Cantwell still owed $1.25 million from her Senate campaign, which she largely financed herself. 
/'-----------,
49¢Color Copies 
single-sided on 8.5" x 11" 28 lb. paper. 
You'll be amazed by the quality. 
(C)py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
On the Campus of the University of Notre Dame 
Call 631-COPY 
FREE Pick-Up & Delivery 
See store for details. 
Coupon required. Hurry -expires 5/4/01. 
\t:v~d~it:a:o:e:r::d:o:n/ 





Thursday, April 26, 200 I 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 10 


--· ---· ·--· ·-----·--· ---· 
. ·-.. ·------· ·-----·-·-·­
·-· -· ··-· .. ··-· ··-·-· ··-·­
1Dedipus Rex:1 
ITT's Spnng Mainstage show 7:30pm, Wed., April 25 -Sat., April 28 2:30pm, Sun., April 29 
-$6.00, Washington Hall 
r-11 Blue & 6old 6ame 
Sat., ApriI 28 
1 10am -4pm Fanfest, Parking Lot S. of Stadium 11:30am -12:30pm Alumni Flag Football Game 1:30pm Blue Gold Game, ND Stadium 
16~ps~• 
8:00pm, Thurs., April 26 -Sat., April 28 2:30pm, Sun., April 29 $7 .50, 0TLaughlin Auditorium, Saint MaryTs 
Movies 
Proof of Life (101 DeBartolo) Billy Elliott (155 Debartolo) Thurs. 10:30, Fri. &Sat 8:00 &10:30 A Summens Tale Fri. and Sat. 7:30 & 9:45pm, Snite Museum 
Acousticafe1 
More rock music Thurs. 9:00 @ the Huddle 
Thursday, April 26, 2001 page 11
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
IRAN SOUTH AFRICA 
Meeting unites nations against Israel 
will fight for 100 years." 
As.ociated Press 
The declaration also con­demned U.S. policies that 
TEHRAN "encourage the exacerbation of Radical Palestinians groups at terror and violence" against the an anti-Israel conference in Palestinian people and urgedTehran said more than 30 the boycott of U.S. products. Muslim nations backed calls Most Muslim and Arab nations Wednesday for a continued consider Washington biased in Palestinian uprising -includ­favor of Israel. ing Egypt and Jordan, which Participants also called for have peace treaties with Israel. the establishment of an Islamic­
"The conference sent this Arab fund to collect money for message to the world -that the uprising, an international Muslims are getting united tribunal to try Israeli leaders against Israel and are support­for war crimes and an indepen­
ing  the  inte­ d  e  n  t  
fadeh," or uprising, said Moussa Abu  "The conference sent this message to the world ­ Palestinian state with Jerusalem as  
Marzouk. a senior official of the radical Hamas move­ that Muslims are getting united against Israel ·and are supporting the  its ca pit al. They also u r•g e d Muslim  
ment. "We will sacrifice our blood to liberate  intefadeh {uprising]."  countries to sever diplo­matic ties  
our homeland."  Moussa Abu Marzouk  with Israel.  
A declaration  radical Palestinian  At the close  
signed  at  the  of the  con- 
two-day confer­ ference,  

ence called for "full support of about half the delegates chant­the intefadeh until the expul­ed: "God is Great. Death to sion of occupiers from occupied America. Death to Israel." Palestinian land and the libera­Wednesday's resolution, tion of Palestine," said though unanimous, it is not Mohammad Sadegh Hosseini, binding. But its was an impor­one of the main organizers. tant sign of Muslim unity. Until 
Hard-line Israeli Prime now, most Muslim countries Minister Ariel Sharon "is had distanced themselves from threatening to stop the inte­conference host Iran, which fadeh in 100 days," said considers Israel its archenemy. Abdullah Ramadan Shalah, However, growing anger head of the Palestinian Islamic toward Israel amid an escala­Jihad. "But I would like to tell tion of violence in the Middle him that the people of Palestine East appeared to be driving moderates and radicals closer together. 
Conference attendees include some of Israel's deadliest foes -Shalah; Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, leader of Lebanon's Hczbollah guerrilla group; and Khaled Mashaal, a leader of the radical Islamic Hamas move­ment. 
Even Saudi Arabia, which is critical of Israel but holds back from lashing out at the Jewish state because of its own ties with Washington, sent repre­sentatives to the conference. Saudi Arabia has pledged $4.5 million in support of the Palestinian uprising, money that will go to victims of vio­lence and their relatives, the official Saudi Press Agency said. 
Earlier Wednesday, Ahmed. Jibril, leader of the radical Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command, urged Muslim countries to open a "united front" against Israel to help sow "fear in the hearts of Zionists." 
Faisal Husseini, a top official of the Palestine Liberation Organization, the main party negotiating peace with Israel, said it was better for Israel to accept a solution now. By 2010, the Palestinian population would equal that of Israel, he predicted. 
"We Palestinians are the ones offering (the Jews) the state of Israel. It is not they who are offering us a Palestinian state, because Palestine belongs to us, and it is not theirs to give," Husseini said. 


Official: businessmen plot to oust president 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 

South Africa's top law enforcement official has accused three of the coun­try's most pow!)rful busi­nessmen of plotting to oust President Thabo Mbeki. 
In an interview on the South African Broadcasting Corp. news Tuesday night, Safety and Security Minister Steve Tshwete said the gov­ernment was investigating plots to remove Mbeki from power. 
The accusa­tions against 
''It's a conspirational

the men were President not spelled thing. The best way of Nelson out, but sever­Mandela,
dealing with the 

al analysts according to
matter is to have

said the gov­the state­ernment in one open debate about ment. 
of Africa's everything, including Ramaphosa 
strongest has denied in
the presidency. " 

democracies the past try­might be try­ing to under­ing to stifle Thabo Mbeki mine Mbeki. any possible In an inter­
president, South Africa

opposition to Mbeki. 
The investigation focused on Cyril Ramaphosa -one of the most respected people in the country -Mathews Phosa and Tokyo Sexwale. All three are senior mem­bers of the ruling African National Congress who have been known to harbor ambi­tions to be president. All have left government in recent years and become successful businessmen. 
"The allegations are not 
worthy of any comment. They are insulting the intel­ligence of ordinary South Africans," Phosa told SAfm radio Wednesday. 
A statement from Sexwale's family called the accusations "ongoing and unfounded rumors." 
"It is an unwarranted pre­cious time-wasting exercise to be diverted by gossip and rumor-mongering based on cooked-up stories," the statement said. Sexwale dis­cussed the issue· with sever­al senior officials Wednesday, including Tshwete and former 
In partnership
AUTOMATION with the Michigan Economic Development Corporation 
ALL y™ 
view on e-tv 
Tuesday night, Mbeki said some busi­nessmen were secretly fund­ing challengers to him with­in the ANC. 
"It's a conspiratorial thing," Mbeki said in the interview. "The best way of dealing with the matter is to have open debate about everything, including the presidency. Because once you start a conspiratorial thing, you are implanting a destructive process." 



[THE ALLEY] 


I 

I 

Automation Alley, the nation's newest and fastest growing technology cluster, offers outrageous advantages. Like diverse job opportunities with the world's leading corporations. Innovative thinking that fosters mutual collaboration. An unparalled commitment to R&D. The potential to move ahead and across exciting industries. Highly competitive salaries. Excellent benefit packages. And a cost-of-living that offers real buying power in one of the nation's most appealing settings-Oakland County, Michigan. 
Indicator  Automation Alley  Route 128  Silicon Valley  
(Oakland County)  (Middlesex County)  (Santa Clara County)  
Median Housing Price  $192,337  $284,609  $463,234  
Professional Salaries  
Mechanical Engineer  $64,227  $61,217  $68,298  
Electrical Engineer  $67,410  $64,202  $ 71,550  
Computer Programmer  $54,184  $51,602  $57,821  
Computer Analyst  $68,895  $65,617  $73,092  
Job Growth Since '97  4.0%  5.5%  3.2%  
Cost of Living Allowance  114.3  121 9  141.7  

Average~ 100 

New jobs everyday online @ www.automationalley.com Interested In internships? Check out our web sltel 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Thursday, April 26, 200 l 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dome. IN 46556 024 Somh Dinin~ Hall. Norre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR Noreen Gillespie  BUSINESS MANAGER Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR Kerry Smith  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarlcy VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Pat McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadrer SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAJly's EDITOR: Myra McGrifT PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKcnna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX................... .....631-6927 ADVERTISING.............. ...........631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.... .. .............................631-4542 MANAGING EDJTOR/AssT. ME ..... ............631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.... . ..............631-5313 NEWS ..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE...... .. .......................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS... . ....... ..... .......631-4324 
obscrver.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.....................................................631-8767 SYSTEMSfWEB ADMINISTRATORS ...............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsen1er.11dedu for daily updates ofcampus news. sports. features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movics/mwic for 
weekly student reviews
minurc forecasts 
onlinc features for spe­
advenisc for policies 
and rares ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
to meet the editors and 
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the U nivcrsiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either instimrion. The Observer reserves chc right co refuse .,dverrisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners ro ,he Editor must be signed and must include contact informarion. 
Q11ntiom regarJi,ig Observer polirits sl10Ufd b, direct­rd 10 Editor i11 Chi,jMik, Connolly. 
Stories of dining hall thieves 
Oh it's that time of year again. Spring: The time for flowers, finals and dining hall amnesty boxes (it's a little-known fact that thousands of Third World refugees seek amnesty from the dining halls each year. Applicants usually receive housing, 
Amy Schill 

political freedom 
and yo-cream). Of 
course, these boxes 
Dazed and

usually remain 
Amused

empty, and if anyone 
actually does turn stuff in, it's quickly snatched up by some­
one who wants to stick it to the man (or just needs some flatware). 
In addition to the boxes, we get the lec­ture about how food services has lost like a billion dollars because we took a mousse goblet. This number seemed slightly high to me, so I decided to do some research on the different kinds of dining hall thievery that you well-bred delinquents partake in. 
As it turns out, despite the number of items reported stolen, many attempts of dining hall theft have failed. The stories I'm about to tell you are absolutely true tales of dining hall theft, trickery and debauchery (you know you've hooked up in the pasta room). Perhaps you can learn what not to do when ripping off our beloved school. 
Case No, 1: The Cup Culprit. Our first hero was having a little get-together one Friday night. He thought it would be just swell to serve some beverages to his friends. but alas, he did not have proper containers for said liquids. So he decided to "borrow" some cups from good old North Dining Hall. 
Since he was actually allowed to bring his backpack into North (cuz they trust us or something), he thought taking a few cups would be simple, right? Think again, 
STUDENT POLL 
. Should Notre 
Dame host ROTC on campus? 
Don't know/ Refuse to answer 
(11%) 


Sparky. Sure, people do get away with it. but when they go down, they go down panini-style (I have no idea what that means). You know those headphones all the dining hall managers wear? Most of the time, it just makes them look like lost Old Navy employees, but they came in handy in our story of the cup culprit. While our friend clandestinely placed cups in his bag, a distant manager saw him and signaled his fellow mangers that "Operation: Student Stir-Fry" was under­way. 
Suddenly, 15 were up on the poor kid like Father Malloy on a wealthy alumnus with a heart condition. Not only did the guy not get the cups for yo.ur party, but his face is now permanently burned into the minds of every dining hall manager, North or South, past. present or future, until the end of time. He can not make a quesadilla without their knowing gaze upon him, examining his salsa. Remember the cup culprit; remember him. 
Case No. 2: There is no such thing as a free lunch. Our next soul lost her ID card, or maybe she already ate at the dining hall but wants to go again with her friends, or maybe she doesn't even go here. The point is that she's trying to sneak into the dining hall. One popular method is to wait until a large group comes in, then sneak in past them. 
Unfortunately for this girl, dining hall card ladies have roughly six eyes, most of which are located in the back of their head. Trying to get past them, she ends up getting caught and then has to lie to some old woman about how she "just completely forgot about this whole card­swiping business." But dining hall lady has heard this story before, sugar, and she's about to get her bagel toasted. 
Case No. 3: The greatest of all dining hall sins. Everyone knows that the worst 
thing you can ever do is take more than 
one pastry or fruit item out of the dining 
hall. But what if it's technically not more 
than one item? You know what I'm talk­
ing about: Taking a gigantic loaf of bread 
as your one pastry item. You and your 
friends have talked about it since fresh­
man year, but you were always too chick­
en to actually try it. Well, I know a girl 
who tried, who dared, who failed miser­
ably. 
She strolled out of the dining hall, ca<;u­ally carrying the huge mass of carbohy­drates under her arm when she was.. accosted by one of thosr, dining hall ladies. the foot soldiers of food services. 
"Bring that back here!" she shouted. "But il's my one pastry item." "Come back here, you know the rules." The girl then proceeded to lick the loaf of bread, mak­ing the story a legend of dining hall thiev­ery and general idiocy. "Bet you don't want it now." 
"Oh you're in big trouble now, sweet pea." Our heroine then threw the bread at this 70-year-old woman and sprinted for refuge at the nearest dorm. Upon telling her story to friends, they asked in wonder. "How old are you again'?" 
No, bread was not procured that day, but at least someone finally gave the elderly what they deserve: a loaf of bread in the face. 
These arc the martyrs of the dining hall. Learn from their stories. and if you still dare to take that bowl or that extra banana, make sure you have good aim. 
Amy Schill is a sophomore English major. lier column appears eoery olher Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseroer. 

. If ROTC remains on campus, should ROTC students be required 
to take a class discussing Catholic teachings on war, peace and social justice? 
Don't know/ 

Refuse to answer  
(5%)  
(42%)No  (53%)Yes  
'l  

*Based on a random telephone poll of 100 students from Notre Dame 
KATIE MCKENNA/The OBSERVER 

and Saint Mary's from April 22 to 25. 
DILBERT 
I DOWNSIZED TED /\ND OUTSOURCED HIS IMPORTANT JOB FUNCTIONS. 
E 
0 
u 
-r 
~ 
~ 

SCOTT ADAMS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The victor belongs to the spoils." 
F. Scott Fitzgerald writer 

I'D LIKE 'YOU TO DO ALL OF HIS UNIMPORTANT 
JOB FUNCTIONS. 



VIEWPOINT 


~HI Thursday, April 26, 200 I vnSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Execution darkens commencement speech 
On May 20, President Bush will be giving the commencement address as my classmates and I graduate from this university. It should be among the proudest and happiest of moments for us, our famHies and our friends. It is a select and privileged few who can claim the distinction of having their president bestow the honor of his presence at their graduation. 
Unfortunately. I know that there will forevttbe a shadow darkening this memory for me. Just a few days before we graduate. just a few hours away from campus, Timothy McVeigh will be executed His execution is unique not only because of the enormity of the crime he committed but because he will become the first prisoner to die at the · hands of the federal government since our country reinstated the death penal­ty. Ilis is also a landmark case because an unprecedented number of people will be permitted to witness the execu­tion via closed-circuit television. 
As chief executive, Bush has the power to commute McVeigh's sentence to life in prison. but I hold out very lit­tle hope that he will do so. McVeigh will die in Terre Haute, and a few days later Notre Dame will award an hon­orary doctorate of law to Bush in South Bend. 
Our director of public relations is quoted in the April 18 edition of The Observer as saying, "We think of our­selves as a prominent university and a good forum for the President of the United States to address the nation, and the President coming certainly val­idates that statement." I am disappoint­ed that this school seems to have allowed itself to be dazzled by the pres• tige of the occasion. 
Notre Dame seems to have forgotten that not only does it think of itself as a prominent University -it also likes to 
think of itself as a leader in the fight for 
social justice, a center where Christian 
beliefs and values are strong. High 
among these values are the sanctity of · life and forgiveness. Yet McVeigh will 
die at the hands of our government. in 
a spirit of vengeance sanitized with the 
name of "justice." and wounds in need 
of healing will be ripped open during a 
closed-circuit television broadcast. 
Has the University considered the 
ramifications of awarding an honorary 
doctorate oflaws to the president just 
days after a landmark federal execu­
tion takes place? 
1 challenge this university and the 
members of the graduating class not to 
let this pass unnoticed, not to condone 
this with our silence, not to value pres­
tige over our integrity. Prestige is 
based upon how others see you, but 
integrity springs from deep within. and without it, you cannot respect yourself. 
On May 20, when President Bush is giving his commencement address, I will be remembering Timothy McVeigh. I will also be remembering another man, approximately the same age, who was executed as a criminal. I will remember his mother, who watched his execution take place and whose name will appear on my diploma -and on the honorary degree given to the President. 
I will reflect on the irony of the situa­tion. And if I weep at my graduation, I will weep not with joy and pride in my university, but with pain, in solidarity with Our Lady, and with grief for my country and my school. 
Kelly Kingsbury senior Pasquerilla West April 20, 200 I 

University fails to give students due respect and trust 
I feel that Brother Jerome Meyer. the rector of Knott Hall, contradict.<; himself when he states that not much studying is going on after 12 a.m. Yet he then continues to say that quiet hours should remain at 12 a.m. so that those who are studying are not bothered. Tell me how that is a reason­able argument. Are people studying past 12 a.m. or are they not? 
This ques­tion of extending parietals boils down to whether the University wants to take some pressure off of thP yoke that is placed upon us. Are we students at a prestigious university? 
YPs. 
Are we held to a higher standard of behavior than most other schools? That's right. We have these things called parietals, and wn have to respect them. 
Most students come here because they want to, and they understand the rules and are willing to follow them. We are all bright, sumewhat responsible young adults. The members of hall staff's across the University might disagree (especially that of Knott Hall, the leading dorm for sending students to the hospital for alcohol abuse. Could Brother Jerome have his reasons?), but our parents obviously had some faith in us since they sent us here. They know us better than any rector ever could or ever will. 
The administration obviously took our recommendations seri­ously. Not to give us one more hour of social time at night with the opposite sex in a secluded environ­ment (i.e. dorm room) socially 
retards us. Most of us went to single 
sex schools so we're pretty much messed up already.

I :)',.,,-.· College is 
'eft.W.//4/· _/ time to 
f/lf/' ;I ,,·
/. ,I' . · -= grow./' ~ · ~/ =-Parietals are '· ·.· not Catholic 
in the sense of universali­ty: it pulls the sexes apart. We 
as a student body do not ask for much, just more time. I would be the · first against totally abolishing parietals. we all 
need our sleep if our roommate happens to have an annoying girlfriend. All I (we) ask is to be trusted, after all, haven't all you old people given us the story of how you lived on your own when you were our age? What makes us so much less responsible'.' 
Andrew O'Brien 
sophomore Knotr Hall April 25, 200 I 

Bush's disdain for life 
Mike Marchand's article is overloaded with administration propaganda. The Bush spin room will be pleased that their efforts are penetrating America's impressionable young minds. 
Mr. Marchand, how do you think the administration is going to pay for its tax cut? Do you really think Professor Walshe's assertion is that far off the mark? You should refrain from making such statements until you've read and understood the thou­sands of pages of budget documents that clearly put programs such as child care, early education, health care and housing on the chopping block. No.t to mention the com­munity health center number you cited is actually a $125 million cut at a time when the number of working Americans without health insurance is increasing. 
A $2,000 health credit doesn't do much good for a family that's left to the whims of the independent insurance market. It costs the average family at least $4,000 a year to purchase health insurance in the indepen­dent market. That is. if the insurers choose to sell a family a policy. Too often insurers use the catch-all exception known as a "pre-existing" condition to refuse the con­sumer's request for a policy. And let's not forget Mr. Bush's disdain for holding the insurance industry accountable when they make medical decisions that harm lives. 
There are so many cuts in this budget that even Mr. Bush's fellow. Congressional Republicans aren't going to endorse all of them. They know that these cuts will harm the people they represent. 
Additionally, Mr. Marchand fails to call the surplus by its correct name: a projected surplus. The Congressional Budget Office cautions that if economic growth rato pro­jections are off by less than 1 percent, the surplus projections would be reduced by $4 trillion dollars, and we could go from sur­plus to deficit overnight. 
We could find ourselves in a position where there's no surplus and we've raided Social Security and Medicare to pay for the tax cut -only this time it's not the 1980s, and we have no time to recover from a recession before the baby-boomers retire and the number of retirees clearlv outnum­bers the workers paying for their.retire­ment. 
But thank goodness the top 1 percent who pay so much in federal taxes get a break. They really need one since over the last sev­eral years they saw their incomes rise by 115 percent. Meanwhile, millions of other hard-working Americans have actually seen their earning power decrease -Mr. Marchand also neglects the fact that mil­
lions of low-working Americans who pay a 
disproportionate amount in payroll taxes 
will see no relief under the Bush plan. And our senior citizens will have to go without a 
Medicare prescription drug benefit. But they don't really need one. They're doing just fine skipping meals and rationing their 
pills in order to afford skyrocketing drug 
bills. 
But at least the United States can be proud to have the same drinking water standards as developing countries like Bangladesh, since Mr. Bush balked at reducing the levels of arsenic so they meet the standards adopted by the European Union and the World Health Organization. (The full impact of Bush's numerous egre­gious environmental policies deserve a sep­arate piece altogether.) 
The University of Notre Dame emphasizes improving the quality of life for our neigh­bors from the womb to the tomb. Some in the University community expressed disdain for the former president's views on _abor­tion. Will this same community remain silent -ignoring the current president's views on the death penalty? 
During his tenure as governor, President Bush presided over more executions than any other state in the union. Governor Bush showed a callousness for life by allotting, on average. only 15 minutes to review death penalty appeals. He also vetoed legislation that would have required that indigent defendants be provided properly trained and qualified representatives. 
Through his hypocritical position on the death penalty, his proposed tax cut which promises to increase the gap between rich and poor and his disregard for environmen­tal protection which will affect the lives of our children and our grandchildren, Mr. Bush has displayed an utter disdain for life that.makes him unworthy of an invitation, let alone an honorary degree from our uni­versity, 
Mr. Marchand and those who would sub­scribe to his views should take another look and reevaluate what the presidency actually stands for and whether his record warrants the opportunity to address the students and receive a degree from the University of Notre Dame. 
Missy Nemeth 
class of '95 Washington D.C April 25. 200 I 

M 
cene E 
page 14 Thursday, April 26, 200 I 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Harris' 'Pollock' depicts a tortured artist 
. 

scabrous psychological struggles, to the 
By MARIO BIRD 
pinnacle of his public life and the waning SLcnc: Movi< Critic 
moment<; of their marriage, the filmmakers showcase Harris and Harden's and erudite 
In "Life" magazine. Jackson Pollock. the and richly developed acting. 

pioner.rin){ American artist. commented, "I The supporting cast is well-rounded and don't let thl' image carry the painting. It's capable. Jeffrey Tambor ("The Grinch") like looking at a br.d of flowers -you don't plays Clem Greenfield, Pollock's blunt yet
tear your hair out ov~r its meaning." 
sympathetic ear in the world of art criti­Ironically. Pollock lived his life in tragic cism. Pollock's wealthy benefactor, the contradiction to this brazen statement. 
shrill. snobbish and sensual Peggy
Existing with constant seJf. 
Guggenheim, is delightfullydoubt, he vainly searched for 

enacted by Amy Madigan purpose among ,vomcn and ''Pollock" (''Field of Dreams"). Harris' 
f'n.mily whiln wrenching him­

real-life spouse. Aside from self in and out of the grip of seeing Pollock pal around bf'smirching alcoholism. 
with peers such as Willem Based on Stevl,n Naifeh DeKooning, depicted by fish­

out offiue shamrocks 
and Gregory White Smith's out-of-mainstream Val Kilmer 
biography "Jackson Pollock: ("The Saint"), Guggenheim
,\n American Saga," Director: Ed Harris 
provides the few refreshing"Pollock" document<; the pub-Starring: Ed Harris, bits of laughter in an other­lie life of America's most cele­
wise serious and overly

Marcia Gay Harden,
brated and most disturbed 
somber film. modern artist. Jeffrey Tambor, Amy There are times when "Pollock" captures not only Madigan and Val Kilmer Harris' status as the director the career of Jackson Pollock, 
seems to have had a rather are sprinkled throughout the film and per­with a huge canvas, executes the scenebut also the tortuous and selfish hand in the shooting, though this haps cost him the Academy Award to a wonderfully. His intense, mulling gaze
vehement world many modern artists 
does not seem to detract from his or scruffy Australian. encapsulates the meaning Pollock injected 
encounter. Ed Harris ("The Truman 
Harden's performance. The script was tai­When Harris loses his self-consciousness into each brushstroke, each inkblot. And asShow"), in an Oscar-nominated perfor­lor-made for Harris' introspective and self­and plays the action rather than the char­Harris darts about his creation. electrifying mance, directs and stars as the neurotic conscious screen persona, and Harden's acter. the film is a joy to watch. Pollock's the screen with raw energy, the audiencepainter who won worldwide acclaim for his thick-skinned, no-nonsense Krasner aug­first chance at fame comes early in the film cannot help but become engaged with theinnovative work in the 1940s and '50s. 
ments Harris' artisanship, perhaps in the when he is commissioned to paint a mural balding, vibrant, warped man, whoseOpposite Harris is Marcia Gay Harden same way her character's steadying pres­for Guggenheim. Harris the director fash­mouth in<;essantly caresses a half-drawn("Meet Joe Black"), who nabbed Best ence once amplified Pollock's skill. ions a brilliant sequence that embodies the cigarette.
Supporting Actress for her portrayal of However, any time a significant film fea­indecision and inspiration that faces the If Sylvester Stallone could create HockyPollock's wife and fellow painter, Lee tures a mentally ill character, Oscar modern artist. Jeff Beal's soundtrack, com­Balboa, a battered and tiring prizefighter, Krasner. 
rumors and highly introverted acting are posed in a scintillating 7/4 time. con­and ingrain him upon moviegoers' con­The plot revolves around the dynamics of sure to follow ("One Flew Over the tributes to a virtually flawless juxtaposition sciousness, one cannot help but wonder ifPollock and Krasner's push-pull relation­Cuckoo's Nest" and "The English Patient," of light and sound throughout the film, but Harris' Pollock will similarly becomeship. From their initial meeting in a dingy for example). Long takes featuring nothing is brought to the forefront as Pollock com­immortalized by the sheer imagery heGreenwich Village flat, through Pollock's but Harris' deliberated facial expressions poses the mural. Harris the actor, alone vainly attempted to elude. 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Time moves backward in engrossing 'Memento' 
By MEG RYAN S,cnc Movie Criti, 
Hailed as the puzzle movie of the year. "Mr·mcnto" leaves viewers walking out of the theatre trying to solve the puzzle of what exactly just happened. 
Based on a short story by British director Christopher Nolan's younger brother, the plot follows Leonard (Guy Pearce, "L.A. Confidential") as he hunts for the man who raped and killed his wife -a difficult task for someone who has no short-term mem­ory. 
When the two men broke into Leonard's home and killed his wife. Leonard received a head injury that prevents him from mak­ing new memories. In order to handle his condition. Leonard writes himself notes, takes Polaroid photos, and tattoos impor­tant facts all over his body. 
Helping Leonard on his quest are Teddy lJoe Pantoliano, "The Matrix") and Natalie (Carrie-Anne Moss, also from "The there. He even wakes up in bed with an Matrix"), two friends he meets whose loy­unknown woman. alties both he and the audience are con­The precise editing of the film allows the stantly questioning. Both appear to be try­movie to flow from scene to scene even ing to help Leonard, but both have their though ,they aren't viewed in the correct own motives as well. order. The movie was 

The movie opens with shot, and then
"Memento"

the last scene of the story, Christopher Nolan and it plays backwards. 
rearranged all of the While a man shakes a scenes, tying them togeth· Polaroid, the audience er with the ongoing
0111 of five shamrocks 

sees the image of another phone conversation. man shot through the l!•"'~ctor: Chrisw,.,h..i tJolan Le'onard's phone con­head disappear, and the versation desr.ribing
&tarring: Guy Pearce, Joe

picture pops back into the Sammy's story helps thr, camera. Only this first Pantoliano and Carrie-Anne audience understand 
scene moves as if in Moss 
rewind. but the whole story is told in reverse. 
After each scene. tire camera cuts to Leonard talking on t h1 · 11hone in his motel room, telling a stor.i about a man named Sammy who had the same memory loss conrli!:on. Then the movie cut5 to the scene that: 111 the storyline. precedes the one priot to the phone conversation. As each scene begins, viewers have no idea what is happening iu the story. but they do know that the scene will somehow end where the last scene began. IL's as if each viewer feels what it's like to be Leonard, who also usu­ally has no idea what's going on at the bei.,rinning of each scene, because he can't remember. 
For example. there's a scene where he "wakes up" running, and he doesn't know if' he's the one being pursued or the pur­suer. Another time he wakes to find a man tied up in his closet, and he hasn't the faintest idea who the man is or how he got Leonard's condition. This 
scene's placement gives 
"Memento" an original edge without even considering the content. 
"Memento" also provides its viewers with a very different viewing experience. Instead of trying to predict the lilm's end­ing, the audience must try figure out how it all began (i.e. why Leonard killed Lim man and how he discovered the man was his 
wife's killer). 
An immense amount of concentration is requirnd to follow the plot as it twisl'l back­wards, and the audience doesn't know whom to trust or whom to bnliew. They rely on Leonard's instincts to guid,~ tlH'rn, but the question to keep in mind is: Can Leonard himself be trusted? This µuzzlP isn't an easy one to solve. 
Like movies such as thR "The Usual Suspects" and "The Sixth Sensn," tlrn dues begin to fall into place as the story comes racing towards iLc; end; or, in "Merncinto's" ca,;e, its beginning. 


Thursday, April 26, 2001 page 15 

By MATT NANIA and JUDE SEYMOUR Scene Movie Critics 
Love it or hate it, the summer movie sea­son is on its way. From talking apes ("Planet of the Apes"] to a couple of stoners ("Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back"), Hollywood is pulling out all the stops in hopes of obtaining box office glory. Herc is a quick look at 10 of the summer's biggest diversions. 
"The Mummy Returns" (May 4) 
Players: Directed by Stephen Sommers; starring Brendan Fraser. Rachel Weisz and The Rock 
Buzz: Summer doesn't officially begin until June 21. but that's not stopping Universal Pictures from releasing this spe­cial effects extravaganza weeks before­hand. After hearing the "ka-ching" of box office success with 1999's 'The Mummy," Universal immediately put the sequel into development. from the looks of the trailer, 'The Mummy Returns" is a louder, bigger, CGl-intoxicated version of the original, complete with epic battle scenes, explo­sions and flying corpses. Add to that the fact that it's rated PG-13 (meaning kids can go) and co-stars ½'WF's The Rock, and you've got a blockbuster destined to open the summer movie season with a bang. 
"Pearl Harbor" (May 23) 
Players: Directed by Michael Bay !"Armageddon"); starring Ben Affleck, Josh Hartnett and Kate Beckinsale 
Buzz: If you've been to the multiplex in the past three months. you've seen the trailer for "Pearl Harbor." Everyone is talk­ing about this movie. With a budget upwards of $150 million, this epic war/love story looks to have a fantastic. 30-minute­long attar,k sequence that will put viewers in the thick of the battle. But like another cinematic account of a major historical event, "Titanic," "Pearl Harbor" will prob­ably have the scope. but not. the intelli­gc•ncc, of a great film epic (there's a love triangle among the main characters lhat could get in the way of good storytelling). Touchstone Pictures solidified Memorial Day weekend for its release: and "Pearl Harbor" will no doubt own the box office for a good two or three weeks. 
"Moulin Rouge" (June 1) 
Players: llirected by Haz Luhrmann ("Romeo and Juliet"); starring Nicole Kidman and Ewan McGregor 
Buzz: Set at the turn of the 20th Century, this free form musical follows a young poet as he enters th<' amoral. bohemian world of club l\loulin Houge. An electric aLmos­phere of sex, drugs and music sets "Moulin Rouge" apart from typical summer pic­tures. But utilizing contemporary music in a period setting (contributors include Beck, Fatboy Slim) may confuse conservative viewers looking for a straight-up musical. But for those interested in seeing film pushed beyond its boundaries, "Moulin Rouge" will offer its own brand of summer entertainment. 
"Tomb Raider" (June 15) Players: Directed by Simon West ("Con Air"); starring Angelina Jolie 
Buzz: Based on the immensely popular Playstation video game, "Tomb Raider" will bring some old summer familiars to the screen: Guns, high-flying action and eye catching apparel. The movie will (hopefully) provide a compelling back-story for the previously pixHated character, sending her on a new journey to recover plenty of booty from the Arctic to South America. If the filmmakers can keep the rating at PG-13 or below, expect a big flux ofmovie patrons come June 15. 
"A.I.: Artificial Intelligence" (June 29) 
Players: Directed by Steven Spielberg; starring Haley Joe Osment and Jude Law 
Buzz: Any movie that has Spielberg's name attached to it creates an insane amount of buzz. Having a John Williams score and containing the return "Saving Private Ryan's" cinematographer adds to that, as does the late. great Stanley Kubrick ("A.I." is based on his treatment). As if this wasn't enough, the marketing team launched a frenzy of "Blair Witch" proportions when its trailer incorporated a credit of "Sentient Machine Therapist" for "Jeanine Salla." Typing in Salla's name on a Web engine launches a tangled weave of sites dedicated to propagandizing the fic­tional narrative of the movie. "A.I." is now hyped through the clues on these sites, which is just another reason why Spielberg is set to make millions from this Amblin­Kubrick production, the plot of which has been kept tightly under wraps. 
"The Score" (July 13) 
Players; Directed by Frank Oz ("l:lowfinger"); starring Hobert DeNiro, Edward Norton and Marlon Brando 
Buzz: Does a film that ·stars DeNiro, Norton anr! Brando, each considered the best actor of his generation, need any buzz'? The real question is the by-the-num­bers story: An older thief lDeNirol is all set to retire and live off the spoils of his loot when a younger thief (Norton) blackmails him into doing one last heist. The actors themselves no doubt attracted each other to the project, but a decent storv would have been nice. Brando's career has floun­dered recently (for the past two decades, in fact), but he still retains his legendary sta­tus. Therefore, there are three exceptional reasons to see ''The Score" this summer. 
"Jurassic Park 3" (July 20} 
Players: Directed by Joe Johnston ("Jumanji"); starring Sam Neill, Laura Dern, Tea Leoni and William H. Macy 
Buzz: Steven Spielberg has opted out of the third installment of the "Jurassic Park" series. but the main stars of the first two movies, Neill and Dern, have come back. The plot sounds weak (another island full of the extinct species courtesy of InGen), but with dinosaurs controlling the action it should prove terrifying. But if the dinosaurs aren't cutting it, look to the usual great acting from Neill, Dern and Macy to at least inject funny witticisms into their situation. Hopefully, this movie will erase all memories of"The Lost World." 
"America's Sweethearts" (July 20) 
Players: Directed by Joe Roth; written by Billy Crystal; starring John Cusack, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Julia Roberts and Christopher Walken 
Buzz: The plot of "Sweethearts" centers around a high profile celebrity act­ing couple that has broken up but are stuck doing publicity for the last film they made together -all the while their publicist is trying to make everyone believe they're just as happy together as they ever were. In the year of Tom and Nicole's messy breakup, this movie should be a satirical look at a usual­ly sensitive process. The film's direc­tor was responsible for producing "Tomcats," but the acting of Cusack and the writing of Crystal should be impetus enough to see "Sweeihearls" come July. 
"Planet of the Apes" (July 27) 
Players: Directed by Tim Burton ("Sleepy Hollow"); starring Mark Wahlberg, Tim Roth and Helena Bonham Carter 
Buzz: Burton has a way of creal.• ing brand new cinematic worlds, and although "Planet of the Apes" is a remake of the original Charlton Heston-starring cult classic, he will no doubt give audiences an eyeful of visual splt>ndor within a tale unique to big budget blockbusters. The make-up effects by multi-Oscar win­ner Rick Baker look outstanding, and the trailer is action-heavy, which suggests the film will please most of its targeted audience. Let's just hope there is none of the rumored "monkey-love" between Wahlberg and Carter. 
_.., 
"Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back" (Aug. 10) 
Players: Directed by Kevin Smith; star­ring (among many others) Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith 
Buzz: Thanks to the View Askew Web universe (View Askew is the name of Smith's production company). all Kevin Smith movies carry a significant amount of buzz before they open. "Jay and Silent Bob" will prove no different, as the fourth installment of the famed Jersey Trilogy will reach its final chapter {even though a fourth chapter of a three part series sounds wrong, the director has promised it's going to be worth it). The stars of teenager movies past and present will be making contributions {think along the lines of James Van Der Beek and Jason Biggs). And with a host of SNL cast members. this movie simply cannot be missed. "Jay and Silent Bob" will most likely be seen by a large gathering of teenage kids, willing to recite line after line of Smith's witty dia­logue just moments after viewing the film. 

Thursday, April 26, 2001

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Surging Minnesota rallies to·down Boston 6-4 
Associated Press 
Torii Hunter hit a three-run double in the 10th-inning as the surprising Minnesota Twins rallied for a 6-4 win over the Boston Red Sox. 
The Twins tied the game in the ninth on back-to-back doubles by Jacque Jones and 
A.J. Pier.lynski against Hod Beck (0-1), then won for the sixth time in seven games. 
Minnesota. leads the AL Central at 15-4 after posting the worst record in the league last year. Boston fell to 14-7 and into a first-place tie with Toronto in the AL East. 
Bob Wells (2-0l got out of a jam in the bottom of the ninth ·with a runner at third. Latroy lla«rkins pitched the 10th for his sixth save after allowing Manny Ramirez's

--run-scoring groundout. Matt Lawton st.arted the 10th with a sin­gle, took second on Denny Hocking's sacri­fice and stayed there on a walk to Corey Koskie. Pete Schourek replaced Beck and got David Ortiz to pop out but walked Doug Mientkiewicz to load the bases. Rolando Arrojo replaced Schourek and Hunter hit a hard grounder between third baseman Shea Hillenbrand and the foul line for the bases-clearing double. The Red Sox were one out away from a win after Beck retired the first two Twins in the ninth. Then Jones lifted a double to left field that Troy O'Leary just missed catching. Pierzynski's double off the left­field wall tied the game. 
That left two of baseball's best starters without a decision after pitching seven innings each. 

Pedro Martinez struck out 10 for the third time this season, allowed two runs, six hits and two walks. For the Twins, Brad Radke struck out two. walked none and gave up three runs and eight hits. 
The Red Sox had snapped a 2-2 tie with a two-out rally in the sixth, Ramirez doubled after Radke retired the previous 11 hitters, then scored on O'Leary's single. 
Ramirez. who has reached base in all 21 of Boston's games, scored just before O'Leary was thrown out when he rounded first base too far. 
The Twins lost Tuesday night's series opener 9-4. but Wednesday's game figured to be closer with Martinez pitching against Radke. Martinez's ERA rose from 1.61 to 
1.80 while Radke's went from 2.23 to 2.52. 
Boston led 2-0 after its first two batters as Trot Nixon doubled and Jose Offerman hit his first homer of the year. But Radke retired the next three batters. 
Martinez struck out five Twins in the first two innings, but they scored in the second when Hunter walked, took second on a grolllldout and came home on Pierzynski's double. 
Minnesota tied it in the fifth. Jones sin­gled and reached second when O'Leary misplayed the ball for an error. Jones reached third on Pierzynski's sacrifice bunt and scored on Luis Rivas' single. 
The Twins threatened in the sixth but left runners at first and second, and Martinez retired the side in order in the seventh. 
Mariners 7, Yankees 5 
Carlos Guillen drove in three runs with a pair of two-out hits as the Seattle Mariners beat the New York Yankees for their sixth straight win. 
The Mariners, despite the offseason loss of Alex Rodriguez. have won 10 of 11 and lead the majors with a 17-4 record. 
Guillen, who entered the game hitting .17 5 with seven RBIs as Rodriguez's replacement at shortstop, gave Seattle a 6­5 lead in the sixth with an RBI single. He also had a two-run single in a four-run sec­ond and tripled in the eighth to finish 3-for­4. 
The Mariners have won the first two games of the three-game series, the first meeting between the teams since last year's AL championship series. The three­time defending World Series champion Yankees are 11-10. 
Ichiro Suzuki was 2-for-5 with two RBIs to raise his average to .355. Suzuki, the leading hitter in the Japanese Pacific League the last seven years. followed Guillen's go-ahead hit in the sixth with an RBI single to center off Andy Pettitte (3-2). 

Jeff' Nelson got the final out in the eighth in his first appearance against New York since returning to Seattle as a free agent. He helped the Yankees win four titles in five years as their right-handed setup man. 
Kazuhiro Sasaki pitched the ninth for his major league-leading 11th save. 
New York tied it at 5 in the fifth on Bernie Williams' sacrifice fly and Jorge Posada's two-run double down the left-field line. Scott Brosius and Chuck Knoblauch opened the inning with walks off starter John Halama, and Derek Jeter singled off Norm Charlton (1-0) to load the bases for Williams. 
After Pettitte struck out the side in the first inning, the Mariners took advantage of two errors and a two-out walk to score four unearned runs in the second. 
Guillen singled in two runs with a drive to left that got under right-fielder Paul O'Neill's glove, allowing another run to score. Suzuki followed with an RBI single. and John Olerud added a sacrifice fly in the third to make it 5-0. 
Brosius. whose throwing error helped set up Seattle's big inning, hit a leadoff homer in third, and New York pulled within three on Michael Coleman's sacrifice fly in the fourth. 
Pettitte, who came within one out of a shutout against Boston in his last start, allowed seven runs N three earned N and seven hits in six innings. 
Toronto 8, Texas 5 
Brad Fullmer hit a three-run homer and added a go-ahead infield single in the eighth inning to lead the Toronto Blue Jays over the Texas Rangers. 
Fullmer homered in the first off Kenny H.ogers (1-2) in the first, and put the Blue Jays ahead 6-5 in the eighth following a one-walk to RauJ Mondesi, who took third on a a two-out infield single by Jose Cruz Jr. that went off Rogers' glove past second baseman Handy Velarde, who may have been distracted by the runner. 
Fullmer then singled to left side of the infield and beat the throw from shortstop Alex Rodriguez. helping sent the Blue Jays to their fifth straight win over Texas. 
Darrin Fletcher added a two-run single off H.ogers, who gave up eight runs eight hits in 7 2-3 innings. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Nacre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
TICKETS 
4 U2 Tickets 4 May 4 Fri. Before Derby Lexington, KY. Cal/ 243-1487 
Need one ticket for graduation, call Mike at 246-9085 for info. 
Need one ticket to graduation. Price negotiable. Call 4-3760 
2 tickets for graduation needed. Will pay$$$ Call Dustin@ 243-1751 
FOR SALE 
098 Honda Prelude 2 dr. sports coupe. Green/ivory. 42k miles. Excellent condition. One owner. New tires. Loaded. Sunroof. ABS Spoiler. Great car. Call 1-4368 weekdays or 277-4605 after 5 pm. Parked in Stepan Center lot. 
Bunk Bed/Futon-Fits ND mattress on top, couch/double bed on bot­tom. $175 or best otter. 243-1366. 
WATERBED-great for ott-campus. $60 Eric 277-7950 
Furniture for Sale (entertainment center w/ 270 TV and VCR (separate), desk, dresser. shelving unit, etc.) all in great condl­tionl Prices negotiable. 
Call Dustin@ 243-1751. 
Oakhill Condo -4 bdr/3 bath 1/2 mile from campus fireplace, deck, pool access $99,000/best ofter call Tim@ 612-802-0285 
WOODBRIDGE CONDO 18199 Stoneridge -Apt F 1239 sq. ft. $84,300, 3 bedrooms. 1 1/2 baths. dining room, living room, kitchen Condo lee $165 per month. The Hickey Group-Karen castelluccio 674-1682 Relax and enjoy life in this beautiful two bedroom condominium watch­ing the St. Joseph River. This North Shore Club condo, close to cam­pus, has a ceramic tiled entryway and kitchen floor, with mirrored bar, whirlpool bath, large bedrooms, 1.5 baths and storage sheet Call Century 21 Goldstar office, 272­2121 or 235-7207. Ask for John Beard. 

Europe $199 one way. 

Mexico/Carribbean or Central 
America $250 round trip plus tax. 
Other world wide destinations 
cheap. II you can beat these prices 
start your own airline. Book tickets 
on line www.airtech.com or toll free 
(877)AIRTECH 

1428 Marigold Way Northshore CondoClose to ND. 1 Bdrm. 1 bath, LR. DR & Kitchen include. All appl. 1 car garage &large storage closet. Condo fees inc. ext. maintenance, pool, tennis, club house, cable, gas heat, water, sewer, trash, water heater &water softener. $72,500 Call Doris 255-7862 
FOR RENT 

EXECUTIVE SUITE: One bedroom furnished executive suite -cable & local phone, housekeeping included @ $60/night (football/graduation weekend rates higher). (219) 271­6808 or e-mail: www.belleterre­suile@aolcom ND Afum owned/managed. Near ND. 
Studio apartment in quiet neighbOr­hood near Notre Dame. Unfurnished, cable, patio; $330/mo. Plus electric. Available June. Telephone 616-687-8924. 
Rent for fall semester 4 bedrooms, 2 tun baths, washer & dryer, basement wlhot tub, new fur­nace, security system. Call to see 277-0636. 
Newly remodeled 6 bedroom house available to rent tor fall semester. 2 lull baths, washer & dryer, huge rec room, security system. Cati now to see 277-0636 Looking to share/sublet summer 
apartment. Will be performing 
internship in South Bend May 13 
through August 18. Non-smoker. 
(419) 352-4136 
(timgoodenow@yahoo.com) 
Lakeview -1640 Byron -Bright 3 bedroom duplex (2000 sq/ff) in graystone two flat, enormous kitchen, recessed lights, built-in speakers. 21/2 new baths (Jacuzzi), hardwood floors, W/D include. Hi/Eff Furnace w/ AC, Deck $2100/mo one year lease only. 773/472-7775 or 800/323-8144 x 640. 
Oak Hill Condo tor rent. 2 bdrm, 2 
bath. Available June 1. 1-765-362­
1040. Ask for John 
5-6 BR House, furnished, WID, 
Popular location, 10-mo. Lease. 
233-9947 
Lake living bear Bremen most pets okay new 3 bedroom air, garage, dispos­al, dishwaher$950/mon1h page 219­935-7845 or call 546-4430 
An adorable 1 .5 bdrm. House w/ garage by St. PatrickOspark. 702­436-1594. 
Rent for fall semester 4 bedrooms, 2 full baths, washer&dryer, basement w/ hot tub, new furnance, security system. ca112n-0636 
Newly remodeled 5 bedroom house available to rent for fall semester. 2 full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec room, security system Call now to see 277-0636 
1 br sublet 5/15-8/15, Downers Grove, IL, w/d, ctw, ale, great corn­plex, room for 2 people, $890/mo+util Rachel 312-498-6579 
CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN­COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE TOEL 1 or 2 BEDROOMS OWN BATHROOM $780/mo. 1-312-443-6062 JAIME 3-6 BDRM HOMES $180 per per­

son Furn. Summer/Fall 272-6306 
ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND Wild Irish Rose Inn 3mi north of campus 
•brkfst buffet ea AM 'clean, comfortable & afford­able (2190 277-4303 or 
'ti.WW wildicillb[Qr,;e !;Qm 
3 bdrm duplex 501/503 Eddy St. 
Appliances. W/0 
1 mile from campus 
273-8332 or 250-7080 
Studio apartment in quiet neighbor­hood near Notre Dame. Unfurnished, cable, patio, $330/mo. Plus electric. Available June. Telephone 616-687-8924 
WANTED 
Hoping to house sit or rent your 
home, furnished/unfurnished, until 
summer 2002. Married couple, 
early 40s , professional + student, 
no kids. Call 616.697.5307 or 
270.659.0096 
Summer daytime sitter for three 
girls ages 12 to 5. 273-301 0 
FEMALE ROOMMATE ­
DETROIT SUBURBS Join another 
'01 ND grad! Call Alison 4-2339 
SECRETARIAL WORK Part-Time/work at home-Word pro­cessing from dictation involving client case studies. Must have com­puter Dictaphone provided. Call for info+interview, mornings M-Thur. Ask for Cindy. 287-3373 
Graduating seniors: Looking to sell your apartment lumi­ture (beds, desks, couches, etc)? ND juniors looking lo buy. Call Nick at 4-4716 if interested. 
Retired ND staffer & spouse wish to apt for summer. Reliable, non­smokers, no pets, have family in area. 136 Lakeview dr., Mulberry Fl. 33860 {863) 425-4404 or call our daughter locally at 256-2335. 
RETIRED ND STAFFER & SPOUSE WISH TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER. RELIABLE. NON­SMOKERS, NO PETS, HAVE FAM­ILY IN AREA.135 LAKEVIEW DR. MULBERRY FL (863) 425-4404 OR CALL OUR DAUGHTER LOCALLY AT 256-2335 
1 FEMALE ROOMMATE TO 
SHARE 2-BEDROOM APT. 
WISENIOR FEMALE FOR NEXT 
YEAR. TURTLE CREEK. CALL 
243-1487 
Not sure what to do with those old dorm room items? Will buy refriger­ators, computers, TVs, stereos, etc. Call Brian at 4-1944 
ROOMMATE WANTED For DC 2001-2002 Dillon senior going to school in DC next year is looking for a cool roomate to share apartment CALL4-0956 
Babysitter, pref. With own trans­portation, for two children, 2&6 yrs in our home. Flexible hrs. 277-1 037 
Not sure what to do with those old dorm room items? Will buy retriger­ators, computers, TVs, stereos, etc. Call Brian at 4-1944. 
PERSONAL 
Indiana Catholic couple with huge hearts wishing to adopt a child. We can provide your baby with lots of love and a secure, stable lite. Reasonable expenses will be paid. For more into, please call Rebecca re Larry and Cathy: toll-free 1-866­30-ADOPT 
LADIES: Take a study break and meet guys, make fun of them, or both with the new ThatGuy! Game. As seen in In Style. Glamour & Entertainment Weekly. Endless Fun! $9.99 at 
'l!J.!tltJ.11:JiilllUllCilrne QQl!l 
Graduating Seniors: Looking to sell your apartment furniture (beds, desks, couches, etc?) NO juniors looking to buy. Call Nick 4-4716 if interested. 
Are you moving to the DETROIT area? The Notre Dame Club of Detroit would like to welcome you to out area and extend an invitation to join us at club events. Please join us this summer for a trip to the Second City Comedy Club, a golf outing. monthly Happy Hours, a Tiger Game outing, and much, much more! To get involved with the club please conlact Rachel Bradford-Smith (12a!.iodra1.tlel!li/QeQQle121. i;Qm) or Amy Zwerk (Amy.J.Zwerk@Accenture.com) or check out the club website (btt12-r1aIurnoi nd edu/-nd1,­deVhQme tl!ml). Thanks and best of luck. 
Weather for this week: Cloudy with a chance of Mike Lane 
Nobody ever said "I want to be a junkie when I grow up" 
If moron's here 
Shut up Richard 
Try an association. For instance, the average person uses 1 0 per­cent of their brain. How much do you use? one and a halt percent. The rest is clogged with malted hops and (can-sored) resin 
hey AM. sorry about dinner, but at least I'm going to take down your Iott after all. Maybe I'll get a splinter. 
Hey tubby, you're not moving. I know, need a little wind here No, you need to drop a couple hun­dred pounds. BLIMP! Rascals. You were saying? Hey lady, you got a tat whale on your boat! FREE WILLYI That's your theory. Hey Gilligan, did you eat the skip­per? You better pray to the god of skinny punks that this wind doesn't pick up. because I'd come over there and jam an oar up your (butt) Your sail is limp, just like your (cen­sored) 


Thursday, April 26, 200 I The Observer . SPORTS page 17 



Baseball 
continued from page 28 
less able to close the game out and preserve Dufrs second win of the season. 
Afterward, Mainieri was very pleased with Duff's performance. 
"He's been an important pitch­er for us all year and I think he showed really good stuff tonight," Mainieri said. 
The second game got off to a decidedly less auspicious start. Both teams jumped on the board early, with Valparaiso's Mark Pedersen knocking an RBI single oIT pitcher Mike Naumann, and Sollman scoring on a sacrifice fly for the Irish. 
As the game progressed, how­ever, it became clear that the Crusader's starting pitcher, Adam Paetznick, was baffling the Irish hitters. 
Usually, a J.V. hurler, Pactznick entered the game with a mere 2.2 innings under his belt, while sporting a hefty 13.50 ERA. 
It might as well have been Greg Maddux on the mound though, as the Irish could man­age only one run and two hits over Paetznick's first six innings of work. 
Meanwhile, Naumann and reliever Matt Laird each yielded two runs in four and three innings respectively. 
Mer the seventh inning come­back fell short, Mainieri made it very clear that poor hitting was to blame for the loss. 
"Mike Naumann isn't going to overpower anyone, but he gave us four good innings. Our hitters weren't able to back him up tonight," Mainieri said. 
,..,. gou," Bt;.N[YQ B\GG{;GT PAl?JTY<< 222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND•219.234.5200 
SOFTBALL 

No. 9 Irish sweep Toledo with 11-0, 1-0 shutouts 
By PETER FRASSO Sports Writer 
In what has recently become as sure as the sun rising every morning. the Irish softball team won again Wednesday afternoon, sweeping a 
home double­header against Toledo, by scores of 11-0 and 1-0. 
The Irish ran their consecutive wins streak to 25 with the two shutouts. Both 


Irish starters, Sharron Jen Sharron and Kristin Schmidt, combined to allow only one hit, with Schmidt pitching a no-hitter, the first of her career. The pitching staff has put together five consecutive shutouts. "They've been doing that kind of job all year," said coach Liz Miller. enjoy­ing the recent run of pit.ching that has lowered the team ERA to 0.88. Earlier in the day, the updated national rankings were released, ranking Notre Dame at No. 9, the highest ranking in the program's his­tory. and the first appearance in the top 10. The two games were totally differ­ent, as the first game was dominated by the offensive explosion of Notre Dame, while the second was a pitch­ing duel between Schmidt and Rockets pitcher Colette McMasters. Offensively, the stars were Jarrah 
Steaks your consuming passion? Then fill up on these sizzlers: londonbroil (13.99), t-bone \17.99) or our specid1Y, 12oz. of USDA prime New York strip (14.99). Lighter options, too! 
NOW OPEN ioR LATE Hl6IIT DINING iRIDAY £r SATURDAY 
222 S MICHIGAN 
SOUTH BEND 
219-234-5200 


Myers, who went 3-for-3 with a home run, two runs scored and two RBIs, and Lizzy Lemire, who went 2-for-3, including a triple and a walk-off grand slam, which lead to the umpires invoking the eight-run mercy rule. 
"I was just looking to swing hard, looking to get the ball into the out­field." said Lemire. "I didn't even realize we only needed one run to win." 
On the pitch before the grand slam, Toledo pit.cher Kristy Kassotis threw a wild pitch that would have normally scored Danielle Klayman, on third at the time. 
"After the game she [Klayman] told me she didn't score because she knew Lizzy was going to hit that grand slam," Miller said. 
Game one pitcher Sharron allowed onJy one hit and struck out six. 
In game two, the obvious star was Schmidt, who struck out a personal best 15 and walked one. 
"I think it was one of my better per­formances," Schmidt said. "I was looking at each hitter, not focusing on the game all at once. I tried to make every pit.ch to every hitter count." 
"It really took the performance of pitching that no-hitter to win the game," Miller said. 
Alexis Madrid drove in the only run of the game on a single in the fifth. 
Notre Dame resumes its Big East portion of its schedule this weekend, with two doubleheaders at home against Boston College and Providence on Saturday and Sunday respectively. Both will be played at Ivy Field. 
Prime banquet space for your private party. JO~J,000 guests 
NBA 
League hits Cuban with fine after bizzare antics 
Associated P ,e.. 
Add blowing kisses to the list of unusual antics by Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban. 
Cuban, who has been fined $505,000 thic; season for everything from running on the court to sitting beside it, blew a kiss to Utah coach Jerry Sloan in the closing minutes of Tuesday night's playoff game, won by the Jazz. 
"Some guy was yelling and I found out that it was Cuban," Sloan said Wednesday. "Some guy yells at me, I'm probably going to yell back. Had I known it was him. I probably wouldn't have yelled,&'s a pow· erful guy." 
The billionaire fan-turned-owner was visibly and vocally upset throughout the Mavericks' 109-98 loss, which put Dallas down 0-2 in the best-of-five series. 
At halftime, Cuban went on TBS to question a refer­ee's call. He also sat on press row and screamed at sideline personnel about how the game clock was being operated. 
Then. during a time out with 2:54 left. he pounded the press table and shouted. Sloan. who was about 35 feet away, replied, "What's your problem?" 
Cuban said Wednesday that his comments were not directed at the Jazz coach. 
"I never said a word to him. Not a single word," Cuban said. "I was trying to get a clarification on why there was a jump ball after an inadvertent whistle with time left on the shot clock. 
"The rules say that if there is time left on the clock, it's considered a suspension of play and play resumes at that point. I got the explanation from the ref, who was kind enough to take the time. Afterward, I looked over and Jerry was cursing at me. I was kind of sur­prised, but I didn't say a word back, just blew him a 
kis ,.
s. 
get your 
-et. 
page 18 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Henderson breaks Ruth's -walks record 
Anociated Prus 
The Man of Steal is about to lift a record from the Sultan of Swat. 

Rickey Henderson, who's usu­ally in a head­first hurry. took a leisurely stroll to first base Tuesday night and tied Babe Ruth's major league rec~ of 2,0o2 walks. 
Always able to inject a bit of swagger into the moment. Henderson, 42, took off his batting helmet and waved to the cheering crowd as a small burst of fireworks went off. 
The San Diego Padres' sixth­inning rally against Philadelphia fizzled and the slumping Henderson, in as a pinch-hitter in the 12-7 loss, walked back to the dugout, con­tent for the time being to be tied with Ruth. 
The walks record might seem somewhat mundane next to Henderson's many other accomplishments. but it's notable for a pretty big reason -the Babe. 
"The name comes to mind and you think about the great-


est baseball player that played the game, the guy that probably kept this game alive for so many years," said Henderson, who's been baseball's career stolen base leader for a decade. 
"He's Mr. Baseball. Once you get in the category of a Babe Ruth, it means that you went out and you did the best job you can do." 
Henderson would have owned the record earlier if not for a statistical adjustment by the commissioner's office in 1999 that added six walks to Ruth's total. 64 years after his last game. 
Henderson, who drew the record-tying walk off reliever Chris Brock, put that in per­spective like only he can. 
"I always wonder. where did he get those walks?" Henderson said. "It was a theory that Babe rose again and went back out there and they gave him six more intentional walks because they were still afraid to pitch to him. 
"He got a few more walks, so we just laughed about it." 
Tony Gwynn, who like Henderson is a probable Hall of Farner, laughs too, but only because his teammate's latest milestone seems a bit surreal. 
"Babe Ruth is like the icon of this game," Gwynn said. "To be chasing one of his records, man, it's hard to put it in per­spective." 
Thurdsay, April 26, 200 I 

The Observer . SPORTS 
Women's Bookstore Results 
Belles of the Ball def. We're 47 years older than you 21-15 Hoopers def. Take 5 21-16 Bre's Ballers def. Team 51 forfeit 5 girls who got cut from the cheerleading squad def. Young Guns 21-12 Slappy's All-Stars def. Loose Balls 21-5 Hardcore Strokers def. Farley's Angels 21-14 Court Queens def. The A-Cups 21-18 
Mulligan 
continued from page 28 
really need them there. Your legs feel heavy and your arms feel slow, and you just want to get done." 
Mulligan found inspiration for training in her Pasquerilla. West roommate. Irish women's basketball team member Imani Dunbar, who sent out an all-call to the dorm and hung banners announcing Rene's impres­sive Boston performance. 
"I though, 'If lmani can win a national champi­onship. then I sure better run my best in a marathon,'" said Mulligan. "I learned a lot from her about going for your dreams." 
Beginning her 18-week training program for Boston on December 11th, Mulligan followed the Hal Higden pro­gram, which includes three 20-mile runs. 
"I feel like I learned a lot of lessons in the process [of training)," Mulligan said. 
"I learned how to be more flexible, how to stick to a program. and how deal with things like when you wake up in the morning and it's so icy you can't even walk," said Mulligan, who only deviated from her outdoor training regimen to run inside or use a treadmill twice during the bitter South Bend winter. 
She wasn't alone for all those miles. Graduate stu­dent Franklin Harkins. junior Brigid Curry, senior Jenny Hinckman and sopho­more Nora Langer braved the cold with Mulligan. Fitting running into a sched­ule was just as challenging as dealing with the weather for Mulligan, who is a PLS major and also works at the 
csc. 
"I apologize to my teachers for the times I was dozing in class this semester," Mulligan said. "Sometimes I chose running over sleep, staying out later with friends or getting that reading done before class." 
Mulligan and Hinckman are the founders of the Notre Dame Women's Running Club, which had only three members when they started it their fresh­man year. and now is up to over 30. 
"Running is a way to expe­rience the world wherever you are. That's why I think runners get so addicted to it," said Mulligan, who stud­ied in Dublin last year and is considering doing volunteer work next year in Peru for the Christian Brothers vol­unteers. 
"I ran in Ireland. in Spain. and in St. Louis when I went to watch lmani win the national championship. I ran in Boston. It's a constant wherever I go,'' Mulligan said. 

STUDENT ORGANIZED LECTURE 
Professor Michael Sherry, distinguished historian from Northwestern University will speak on the topic -­
''DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL'': 
The Great Debate on Gays-In-The-Military 1993-4 
All are invited. Q & A to follow 
Monday, April 30 7:00pm Lafortune Ballroom 
Sponsored by the History Department, Knott Hall, the Student Union, the University Standing Committee ror Gay and Lesbian Needs, College Democrats and College Republicans 

---------------------------------------------_I 
Thursday, April 26, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Calendar of Events 
Friday, April 27, 8:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Student Lounge 
807 -A New Mass on Friday Nights 
Sunday, April 29, 10:00 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
RCIA Faith in Action 
Sunday. April 29, 1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider. Rev. J. Steele, csc 
Sunday. April 29. 8:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Notre Dame Women's Liturgical Choir Concert 
Monday-Tuesday, April 30-May 1, 11 :30 pm-1 0:00pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, May 1. 7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, May 2. 8:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Notre Dame Chorale Concert 
Wednesday, May 2, 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Third Sunday of Easter 
Weekend Presiders 
• Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, April 28 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. Rev. Jerome H. Neyrey, S.J. 
Sunday, April 29 Mass 
10:00 a.m. Most Rev. Daniel R. Jenky, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas E Doyle, c.s.c. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  Acts 5: 276-32, 406-41  
2nd Reading  Rv 5: 11-14  
Gospel  Jn 21: 1-19 or 21: 1-14  

It's never too early to say Goodbye 
by Fr. Bill Wack, CSC 

Another school year is winding down. For those of us who live here and are planning on staying or returning in the fall, it's sad to see a lot of you move on. At the same time, though, che summer offers us a welcome respite from the daily work here. We don't have to leave the place behind for good yet and pack up all our stuff. For the seniors and other graduating students, however, it's a different story. You have to say "goodbye" to all that is familiar here at ND.. 
When I was a senior (way back in '89) I thought leaving would be a snap. After all, I was going home to live with my parents again for the summer -and chat commute was all of 5 minutes from campus! Plus, I knew that I was probably going to come back to study Theol­ogy after a year away. How hard could it be to leave the place? 
Because I didn't think it was anything momentous, I never really said 'goodbye' to any­
one. My favorite line during 

My favorite line during April and April and May was, 'TU see you 
before I go, so I won't say

May was, "I'll see you before I go, 
'goodbye' right now." Even 

so I won't say 'goodbye' right now." 
during finals I used chat line a 

Even during finals I used that line 
lot. Heck, I had another week a lot. Heck, I had another week and a half to spend with my and a half to spend with my fellow fellow graduates during Senior graduates during Senior Week, so I didn't even have to think about saying 'goodbye' to
Week...about an hour after 
them for ... a week and a half

graduation, I found myself alone in 
At Commencement, while 

my section in the dorm, gathering 
listening to the speaker drone on up my belongings. Everyone else about life after school, I was had already left. telling people around me, "I'll see you after the ceremony and we'll say 'goodbye' later". Then, about an hour after graduation, I found myself alone in my section in the dorm, gathering up my belongings. Everyone else had already left. It's true: I did end up seeing a handful of them again (and I still hang out with a few today). Also, I did return to campus for another degree. Still, I'm really sorry I didn't get to say, "thanks", or "goodbye" or ''I'll miss you" to those in my dorm and in my classes to whom I had grown close. It seemed easier to avoid all that unpleasantness at the time, but I regret it now. It's hard to say "goodbye." It sounds so dramatic; so FINAL. We're always putting it off, hoping that this won't be the last time we'll see each other. But now is the best time. We 
have a couple of weeks together so we should take advantage of it. I'm not saying you need to have a heart-to-heart with everyone in your hall and in your classes. For most people maybe a "see-ya" will work as you stroll out of here. But what about those students, faculty, and staff 
members here who have made ~n impact on your life? 
I would urge you to let people around you know how you feel about them. Even though you may end up seeing them a hundred more times between now and May 20, do it. I can't imagine you'd ever regret it. And maybe that will inspire others to tell you how you have touched them while you've been here. 
This is a great time to schedule an appointment with a professor who taught you some­time during your career and tell her/him what their class meant to you. Talk to your rector (who may or may not be returning in the fall) and tell him/her how much you appreciate what they have done for you. Don't forget your friends i_n the hall or on campus who have helped to shape you into the person you are today. 
There's no getting around it: it's difficult to leave here. Even ifyou have been counting down the days and arc glad to be leaving, the memories will always stay with you, and you will most likely find yourself daydreaming about being back here several rimes a day in the immediate future. You have the opportunity now to help yourself and others make char transition a little easier. 
For you who are leaving, know chat we who remain (as well as those who leave with you) will keep you in our rhoughts and prayers. It is one of the greatest blessings to get to know so many of you during our brief stay here. Your enthusiasm, your faith, your passion for life, and your joyful spirit inspire me. Thanks, and may God go with you! 
'Byel 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
Thursday, April 26, 2001

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS
I
t 
NFL 
Injuries end Enis' career 
• Running back suffers from knee degeneration 
Associated Pre._. 
Six weeks ago, Curtis Enis had a chance to start his career over. Now, it's come to an end. 
The 24-year-old Enis. a for­mer first-round draft pick who had hoped to resurrect his career with the Cleveland Browns, said Wednesday he is retiring from football because of a degenerative condition in his left knee. 
Enis was signed by the Browns on March 13 after three disappointing seasons with the Chicago Bears. He said he had been considering retirement for some time and finalized his decision after the Browns recent minicamp. 

I 
"It's tough," Enis said. "But it's just a part of the game. You come in with so much promise and high hopes of doing well and the injury just wouldn't let it happen." 
r~ 
When he signed with the Browns, who averaged an NFL-worst 3.2 yards per 
carry last season, Enis had been optimistic he would be 
r able to restart his once­
J promising career. He didn't
I appear to be bothered by the injury during the Browns minicamp, but he also didn't have the same explosiveness as he did as a breakaway threat in college. Enis, the fifth overall pick in the 1998 NFL draft and the 1993 AP Mr. Football in Ohio, was a holdout as a rookie and made one start before tearing a ligament in his left knee that November. In his second season, Enis rushed for 916 yards in 12 starts, but averaged just 3.2 yards per carry. Last season. the Bears asked him to put on more weight, and he came to camp weighing 245 pounds. Chicago then moved him to fullback, where he gained 84 yards on 36 car­ries. Enis said he informed Browns coach Butch Davis of his decision Wednesday and that his formal retirement would likely be announced Friday. "It's been a tough thing,"Enis said. "But I'm at a point in my life when l have to start thinking about other things." Enis said he plans to return to Penn State to complete his degree in Commercial Tourism and Recreation and Park Management. He said he has one full semester remain­ing. Enis ranks third on the career rushing list at Penn State with 3,256 yards and is second with 36 touchdowns. The Browns drafted run­ning back James Jackson of Miami in the third round of last weekend's NFL draft and are still considering making an offer to Corey Dillon, a restricted free agent running back with the Cincinnati Bengals. 
NHL 

Deadmarsh to face former team in series 
Associated Pre.. 
The euphoria of fatherhood remained with Adam Deadmarsh when he received a message that staggered him with the force of a blindside cross­check. 
A f t e r more than six seasons with the Colorado 

Deadmarsh

Avalanche, he was traded to the Los Angeles Kings N a move that would require him to leave his wife and 2­week-old twins in an intensive care unit as they recovered from premature labor. 
Overcome with emotion and confusion, Deadmarsh cried Feb. 21 when he learned he was part of a trade that brought defenseman Rob Blake to Colorado. 
Two months later. he tri­umphantly returns to Denver as a homecoming king. The top­s e e d e d Avalanche and 
seventh-seed­"/ have adjusted. I have 
had one goal,
ed Los Angeles 
settled in with a great four assists 
open their 
best-of-seven bunch ofguys. " and made 
several pun­
Western 
ishing hits
Conference 
Adam Deadmarsh 

that helped
semifinal 
Kings right winger Colorado
series 
Thursday night at the Pepsi Center. 
"The twins are doing really well," Deadmarsh said Wednesday. "It is a perfect situ­ation to come home. We wanted to move on in the playoffs, and to come here is perfect." 
Because of his popularity and production in Colorado, Deadmarsh is sure to be well received when he takes the ice. Personal feelings have been put aside as friendships take hiatus during the Stanley Cup chase. 
"Deader moved on, and hey, we moved on as well," Avalanche coach Bob Hartley said. "This is the playoffs." 
Deadmarsh, who helped Los Angeles to a 13-4-5 record over the final six weeks of the sea­son, earned a chance to play against his former team by scoring the game-winning goal in the Kings' 3-2 victory over the Detroit Rod Wings on Monday night. 
The overtime goal capped a stunning four-game run by Los Angeles, which lost the first two games of its first-round series and trailed 3-0 late in the third period of Game 4 before rally­ing for another overtime victo­ry. 
'Tm trying to work hard." Deadrnarsh said. "I have adjust­ed. I have settled in with a great bunch of guys. They made it an easy transition for me. We've had a good run to get into the playoffs. Now we are here, and we want to keep it going." 
The Avalanche. meanwhile, have been idle for a week since completing a four-game sweep of Vancouver last Wednesday. 
Like Deadmarsh, Blake played a vital role in helping the Avalanche advance to the conference semifinals. He 
counter the 
Canucks' 
physical strat­egy. 
The performance came after Blake missed eight of the final nine regular-season games with a sprained knee. 
"At first, it was real difficult because you want to prove yourself," he said. "You want to make sure that everything that was done was done for the right reasons, and then all of a sud­den, you're injured and you can't play. You can't practice. The guys go on the road, you're left behind." 
Bruno's Piua All-you-can-eat Buffet 
(Includes Drink) 

*Pizza *Pasta 
$5.99

*Salad *Other Italian Dishes *Parties Welcome 
Every Thursday at 5. 
2610 Prairie A venue 

288-3320 
SOFTBALL 
Saint Mary's ends MIAA play with split with Kalrunazoo 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Senior StaffWri1er 
In their last conference matchup of the season, Saint Mary's split a doubleheader against Kalamazoo, losing 1-0 and winning 2-1. 
"Even though we lost the first game. it was a good way to end our conference season," said senior starting pitcher Anne Senger. "We really played well." 
Both games belonged to the pitchers, with a total of four runs scored in both games. Senger pitched the first game, where she went six innings, giving up one run on four hits. 
The Belles first and only hit came in their first at bat of the game. when Melissa Hayes hit a single to start the game. 
"We did hit the ball," bead coach John Kovach said. "They [Kalamazoo] made some nice defensive plays against us. We just couldn't get anything going." 
"We hit the ball really hard, but we didn't hit in the gap," Senger said. "We played really well on defense, though. In the first game, our defense played exceptionally well." 
The Belles put together more runs in the second game and pulled it out 2-1. Kalamazoo took the early lead with one run in the third inning. Saint Mary's came back and scored one to even it up on a sacrifice fly by Marnie Walsh. Hayes scored on the sacrifice fly to make the score 1-1. 
Neither team scored a run until the sixth inning. In the inning, Walsh doubled and sophomore Susan Kutz walked to put runners on first and second. A double steal moved the runners to second and third. After another walk, Erin Sullivan hit a sacrifice fly to bring home Kutz. 
Freshman Libby Wilhelm pitched the second game and gave up six hits and no earned runs. Kalamazoo scored their one run on an error in the third. 
"After losing such a close game its easy to get down on yourselves," Kovach said. "We did hit the ball hard enough to realize we were going to eventually put something together." 
Kalamazoo put together a scoring scare in the seventh when they had two runners on base with one out. Kalamazoo's lead-off hitter knocked a shot that looked like a single to center. Sullivan chased it down and threw the runner out at third base. A fielder's choice ended the scor­ing threat. 
"Kutz did a good job moving the pitches in and out, and we had only one walk in both games," Kovach said. "The defense played really solid." 
The Belles close out their season at Goshen College on Saturday. Their loss to Kalamazoo took them out of con­tention for the MIAA playoffs. 
OPENS THIS WEEK! 
Don't miss this funny yet touching Broadway musical! 
.......... 
.: 
: 
.• : .
.... 
···~ :-··: l 
r.1... ;.·· j
'-.;: I
••.. 
--............•· 
.-:t. )
pl 
j ••·•••••• 
,;......o;~• 
. 
. 
,:: ............ ; 
\ • I
"J,.,I i 
\ i 
::.•""--:·. ! 
-~
.. 
........... 
Showbiz and 
ADream. .. 
Thursday 
April 26th at 8 p.m. 
• 
Friday 
April 27th at 8 p.m. 
• 
Saturday 
April 28th at 8 p.m. 
• 
Sunday 
April 29th at 2:30 p.m. 
• 
Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Mg~() 
' c~THE ARTS ~NOTREDAME, IN 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
284-4626 


ALUMNI AWARENESS WEEK IS HERE 
.. 

The Notre Dame Alumni Association and the Student Alumni Relations Group will sponsor the following events: 
~ Alumni Association Open House 
Tuesday, April 24 from lla.m. to 2 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center. This event win·~: open tor.:: students but is geared towards graduating 
students. Come and learn about the benefits of your free Alumni Association membership and involvement in your local alumni club. Door prizes include alumni apparel, alumni watch, and a pair of football tickets. Freet-shirts for the first 400 arrivals. 
~ Lunch with Alumni ­
Friday, April 27 from 11:45 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in South Dining Hall. Join over 200 alumni club leaders for lunch in South Dining Hall. You'll find that they're not just about plaid pants. 
~ Young Alumni Sodal 
Friday, April 27 from 9:30 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. in Alumni-Senior Club. This event is 
open to all undergraduate and graduate students who are over 21. Hosted by young 
alumni, this social is a great opportunity to network with alumni of all ages from across 
the country. Free pizza will be provided. 
+ Student Alumni Picnic 
Saturday, April 28 from 11:00 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Quad. Join over two 
hundred and fifty alumni club representatives at an outdoor picnic prior to the Blue-Gold 
Game. Also, a flag football game will be played by former Notre Dame football players 
in Notre Dame Stadium prior to the Blue-Gold Grune. The Picnic is free of charge for 
non-meal card holders. Just bring your student ID.***In case of rain, lunch will be served in both dining halls. Sponsored by University Food Services and the Notre Dame Alumni 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 26, 200 I 
Helmet worn during fatal play under scrutiny by lawsuit 
A.;sociatcd Press 
BOISE. Idaho 

A federal lawsuit alleges an Illin!)iS manufacturer ignored safety defects in the football helmet that Boise State freshman Paul Reyna wa.s wearing when he suffered a fatal head injury 20 months ago. 
The wrongful death complaint was filed April 17 in U.S. District Court on behalf of Reyna's mother, Carolyn Guzman of La Puenta, Calif. 
It names Schutt Manufacturing Co., Schutt Sports Manufacturing Co., Schutt 
WORLD CUP QUALIFYING 
Design Group Inc., Schutt Sports Distribution Co. and Schutt Athletic Sales Co., makers of the three-year-old Schutt Pro AiR II helmet Reyna was wearing at the time of the Aug. 18, 1999. accident. 
Reyna, 19, died live days later in a Boise hospital of what the lawsuit said was a "traumatic laceration of the coro­nal vein, leading to an acute subdural hematoma, leading to brain-stem com­pression, causing his death." 
The 270-pound defensive tackle appar­ently hit the back of his head on the arti­licial turf of Bronco Stadium during a preseason scrimmage. Reyna walked off 
Wolff nets gallle winner for Terun USA 
Associated Press 
Josh Wolfrs timing couldn't have been any better. 
The sparkplug for the United States in World Cup qualifying this year was about to be replaced Wednesday night. But off a corner kick, he knocked home a rebound for a 1-0 victo­ry over Costa Rica. 
Wolff's goal and the steadfast goalkeeping of Kasey Keller gave the Americans a strangle­hold on qualifying in the North and Central American and Caribbean region. The Americans are 3-0, with victo­ries over Mexico, Honduras and Costa Rica, considered their staunchest competition in the race for three spots in the 2002 World Cup. 
Before a crowd of 37,319, the largest ever for soccer at Arrowhead Stadium, the United States extended its home unbeaten streak in World Cup qualifying to 18. The last loss was in 1985 to Costa Rica, which still holds a 5-4-2 edge over the Americans in qualify­ing matches. 
Costa Ilica is 1-1-1 in this round. tied for second with Mexico, which played a 1-1 tie Wednesday at Trinidad and Tobago. 
With Ante Razov set to come in for Wolff, the Americans first bad a corner kick. Jeff Agoos' drive was played by Clint Mathis in the middle of the penalty area. The ball rico­cheted to Wolff, who played it off the ground with his left foot and beat goalkeeper Errick Lonnis in the 70th minute from point-blank range.
--
His job completed, Wolff cele­brated his second game-winner of the three qualifying games, then left the field. 
From there, it was Keller's job to protect the lead. He did it with several terrific hand saves, including one on a dan­gerous header by Paolo Wanchope with eight minutes left. 
With fireworks exploding behind the stadium, the U.S. players saluted the crowd by taking a lap around the field. 
After a lackluster first half, play immediately picked up as both sides threatened. In a span of four minutes, Mathis sent a header wide on a gor­geous cross from David Regis; Earnie Stewart's 25-yard shot was stopped by Lonnis; Wolff shot just wide from close-range after a giveaway; and Wolffs sliding shot was stopped by a prone Lonnis. 
Costa Rica also had a danger­ous chance in that flurry. but Keller caught a close-in header by Steve Bryce. 
Although the Americans car­ried the play for most of the first half, they had trouble when they got near the Costa Rican penalty area. Too often. they eschewed crosses and chips for footwork, and the visi­tors easily stymied the attacks. 
But the United States got one excellent opportunity in the 16th minute. Claudio Reyna broke free in midfield and sent a pass wide on the left to Wolff. Wolff's soft. high shot got over Lonnis. but was brilliantly cleared otT the line by Reynaldo Parks' bicycle kick. 
Television replays were inconclusive, but linesman Fernando Cresci of Uruguay was right on the end line and did not signal a goal. 
Parks made several other strong plays and was Costa Rica's best player for the first 45 minutes. 
The University of Noire Dame Department of Music presents 
~/'" 

· _, The Notre Dame Colleglum Muslcum 
English Polyphony,c.1400-1600 
Works by Power, Forest, Dunstable,Taverner, Browne, Byrd, and Gibbons 
Friday, April 27, 2001 8:00P.M. Moreau Seminary Chapel 
Free and open to the public 
NFL 

the lield but complained of discomfort while sitting on the bench. Surgery that night relieved pressure on his brain, but the damage proved to be fatal. 
The lawsuit, filed !Jy Boise attorney Kurt Holzer, alleges negligence, breach of warranty, willful and wanton conduct, design and manufacturing defects and "failure to give adequate warnings to consumers of the dangers not readily apparent from the reasonably foresee­able use" of the helmet. 
No specific damage amount is sought by the complaint, which says only that it should be more than $100,000. Holzer said the amount would be determined at trial. 
Julie Nimmons, president and chief executive officer of the central Illinois group of companies, did not return calls from The Associated Press on Wednesday. 
According to the complaint, the helmet had "inadequate insulation and padding and was susceptible, when used in a rea­sonable and proper manner intended, to imparting high G-loads upon the heads of its users, thereby causing serious and permanent bead injuries and death to users." 

Synder pronounced cancer-free 
Associated Press 

Washington Redskins owner Dan Snyder says he underwent surgery three weeks ago to have a cancerous thyroid removed and has been told by his doctors he is now cancer­free. 
"They believe things will be tine," Snyder, 36, was quoted by The Washington Post on Thursday. "It was difficult to go through. You go through an 

St Vincent de Paul 
Societv 
Barrels will be in vour dorm 
April 26 through Mav 16. 
11111111111 ,.,,..,11a1n111JID llehllDU ts btlp llllersl 
Hall Pmldents Connell &TIie SL Vlnceut de Paul Societv: 234-8000 
emotional swing that is highly begin radioactive iodine treat-unusual. ... I ments at Johns felt that Hopkins
"I think I'll be more

young peo­University in ple aren't appreciative of iife. " Baltimore soon. supposed to Snyder said get sick." he has no plans
Dan Synder

Snyder to change his said he Redskins owner role in running underwent the Redskins. the surgery "The only April 4 at the George thing that's changing is my Washington University Medical outlook on life," Snyder told Center and resumed work a the Post. "I think I'll be more day later. He is scheduled to appreciative of life." 
Thursday, April 26, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NBA PLAYOFFS 
Allen pours in 27, dishes 7 assists in Bucks victory 
cal foul after jumping up and thro~ after a Thomas foul to Led by inspired play from 0 runs in the midst of a 25-8 Associated Press 
getting into OeClercq's face. make it 37-36. point guards Williams and surge that gave Sacramento a Rivers chastised his players McGrady's pull-up jumper on Bobby Jackson, who made his 22-point lead with 3 1/2 min­after Game 1 for failing to Lindsey Hunter made it 38-37 first six shots and finished with utes left in the half.
The Milwaukee Bucks 
retaliate when Bucks forward before he made yet another 16 points, the Kings jumped to "As a team, if you're not real­
wouldn't be bullied. 
Scott Williams hammered jumpshot over Thomas, who a 22-point first-half lead and ly sharp on the defensive end,
Fired up by a flagrant foul 
McGrady on his way to the bas­was beckoned to the Bucks' never let up on the way to the they'll make you pay for it,"
from Andrew DeClercq, Ray 
ket for a flagrant foul. bench by coach George Karl. franchise's biggest playoff win Phoenix coach Scott Skiles
Allen scored a personal play­
Williams said he's not a dirty McGrady scored another bas­since April 7, 1951. said.
off-best 27 points as the Bucks 
player, but Rivers said it was a ket on Robinson before a bas­"Everybody gets open shots The Kings put on a show as
beat Orlando 103-96 
dirty play. although he respect­ket by teammate Mike Miller when we're moving the ball well. One minute, Doug Christie 
Wednesday night and took a 2­
ed Williams' explanationr that ended his personal 20-point like that," Jackson said. "It was making a no-look touch
0 lead in their best-of-five 
he was just playing playoff bas­flurry. For good measure, feels great. We were pushing pass to Scot Pollard for a dunk.
series. 
ketball. McGrady scored the Magic's the ball and finally playing our The next minute, Webber
Tracy McGrady scored 35 
McGrady got some help this next basket. style. We played extremely embarrassed Jake Tsakilidis by 
points, but just five in the 
time, and not just from his well." passing the ball to himself
fourth quarter as the Magic, 
teammates standing up for Sacramento didn't even need behind the befuddled rookie's
trying to be more physical than Kings 116, Suns 90
him. much help from Chris Webber, back, then hitting Christie for
finesse, lost for the 11th The Sacramento Kings are
Charles Outlaw scored 17 who still had 16 points. nine an open jumper.... -,
straight time to Milwaukee. built for scoring, speed and
points, Mike Miller had 11 and rebounds and five assists. The Kings led 95-63 after
Sam Cassell added 26 points style. They've decided to stick
Darrell Armstrong and Pat Game 3 is Sunday in Phoenix. three quarters, briefly
for the Bucks, who won consec­with their strengths in tho
Garrity each added 10. Seven Kings scored in double stretched the lead to 34 points
utive playoff games for the lirst playoffs.
Jason Caffey scored a career figures as Sacramento shot 57 and then relaxed through the
time since 1987, when they With the league's most potent
playoff-high 13 points for percent in the first three quar­fourth.
beat Atlanta two straight en offense in devastating form,
Milwaukee, and Ervin Johnson, ters and made a number of Williams' regular season
route to a 3-2 series win. the Poja Stojakovic scored 22
shut out on the offensive end, breathtaking passes to incite included more brushes with
last time Milwaukee advanced points and Jason Williams had
had 13 rebounds. the Arco Arena fans, who were NBA discipline than outstand­
past the first round. 18 as the Kings evened their
The Bucks, who outrebound­mostly silent late in ing games, but he was spectac­
Game 3 shifts to Orlando on first-round playoff series with a
ed Orlando by 17 in Game 1, Sacramento's Game 1 loss, to ular in Game 2. Wearing
Saturday night. victory over the Phoenix Suns
had a 53-41 edge on the glass deafening noise levels and sev­sparkly purple sneakers for the
Allen was 11-of-13 from the in Game 2. 
Wednesday night, including 10 eral second-half standing ova­first time this season, Williams
foul line and Cassell made all After a dismal, nervous per­
from a surprising player N tions. shot 7-for-11 and kept the
nine of his free throws. formance during an 86-83 loss
Allen. who also led the Bucks The Kings also clamped down Kings' offense moving while
The Bucks' "Big Three" N in Game 1, the Kings' coaches
with seven assists. on the Suns, who shot 32.6 also playing strong defense.
Allen, Cassell and Glenn spent two days convincing the
Allen scored 14 points in the percent and couldn't keep up. Williams and Jackson hit two
Robinson N combined for 67 players to get back to the
first quarter, including the last Tony Delk scored 14 points -3-pointers apiece and went a
points, 19 more than they strengths of their team, instead
five as the Bucks built a 33-26 most well after the game was combined 13-for-18 from the
accumulated in Game 1 Sunday of allowing the Suns to dictate
lead. decided -as Phoenix headed field. Stojakovic also had an
night. the game's tempo. With all that
McGrady scored 20 straight home to ·America West Arena impressive game after being
The Bucks led 82-77 entering clearly in mind, Sacramento
points for the Magic in the first with the chance to win the held to 5-for-17 shooting by
the fourth quarter and never cruised to a blowout victory. 
half, which ended with Orlando series by defending its house. Marion in Game 1, while Vlade 
trailed despite scoring just one "There was never a doubt in
trailing 53-51. "I thought they played really Divac had 10 points and eight
point until Lindsey Hunter's 3-my mind this team would
The Bucks made it 37 -28 and loose, and once they got the rebounds. 
pointer over McGrady with respond," Sacramento coach
it looked like they were going lead, shots were a lot easier," After the Kings' bumbling
7:53 remaining. Rick Adelman said. "We talked 
to run away with it early before Delk said. "When it was close performance in Game 1, it was
The Magic immediately took about getting back to the way
McGrady took over. Sunday, a lot of the shots they the Suns' turn to look bad.
heed to coach Doc Rivers' chal­we play. AH we did was try to
McGrady capitalized on the made tonight were missing. Phoenix shot 31 percent in the
lenge to be more physical as get a flow going. If we lose
bad back and sore shoulder of when the pressure is not on first half, missing dozens of
DeClercq picked up a flagrant playing that way, then we're
his good friend Tim Thomas, them, sure, it's easy to make open jumpers, and had
foul for hammering Allen just going to lose. But we're not
scoring four straight baskets on shots." nowhere near the same suc­
1:15 after tip-off. going to lose walking the ball
him and sinking two free With homecourt advantage in cess controlling Sacramento's
Allen was assessed a techni-up the floor." 
a playoff series for the first crisp passing. 
GOT AN IDEA? 
These teams did! 
PartScope Hammerhead Grille Columbia Mortgage Smart Surfaces UK Independent Day Surgery Centers 
You are invited to attend the Inaugural Business Plan Competition featuring Peter Bell, CEO of StorageNetworks, and see whose idea will win the $20,000 grand prize! 
When: Fnday, Apnl 27, 2001 Where: Jordan Au~tonum, Mendoza College ol Business 
Schedule of Events 

9:30 a.m.  Keyno!e Address: Peter Bell "Navigaling Through Turbulent Times•  
Peter Bell is Chairman and CEO ofStorageNetworks (NASDAQ: STOR), the world's first Storage Service Provider. StorageNetworks is poised to make managed data storage services as accessible as phone or electric utility services. Mr. Bell is a14-yeai-vereran ofthe storage business and his priorexperience includes key management positions at EMC Corporation. He is afeature!! speaker at industry conferences around the countty.  
11:15 a.m. 12:15 p.m.  Presentations by Finalists Awards Presentation  

For mor~ in!ormation v~it !he Gigot Center !or Entrepreneurial Studies in Room 234 Mendoza College of Bu~ness or visil our websile 
time since 1981, the third­Marion, Cliff Robinson, Jason seeded Kings quickly gave it Kidd and Rodney Rogers com­away with a series-opening bined for 73 points in Game 1, loss on Sunday. Sacramento but they shot a combined 10­didn't pass, didn't rebound and for-42 on Wednesday night. shot horribly while making the Though six Suns finished in Suns look like unstoppable double figures, only Chris defenders. Dudley -who went 1-for-1 ­
From the opening tip in shot better than 50 percent. Game 2, Sacramento was back "We didn't play any defense, to its normal blend of tight and we didn't make any shots passing and proficient shoot­-that equals a blowout," Kidd 

at www.nd.edu/-entrep 
,--------------------------------­
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 26, 2001 
Triathlon 
continued from page 28 
in Indiana. Purdue University, 
which sponsored this spring's 
first Midwest collegiate triathlon 
this past weekend. was the ftrSt. 
1lildebrandt participated in last 
weekend's event, but the women 
on the team did not. 
"I talked to the men from 
Purdue and they're very excited 
!Saint Mary's) is taking part [this 
weekend!." Hildebrandt said. 
"This [weekend's race] is a big 
deal for any triathlon club that is 
formed." 
Results from the race will be 
passed on to the USTA through 
the CTA to encourage support for 
the recently formed association. 
Athletes attending the race from Saint Mary's will be financ­ing the two-day trip with their own money.'t"'' 
Five athletes attending Saturday's race are registered members of the club. The other two members have signed up to travel with the club, although they have not been training with it. Hildebrandt will also be com­peting in the race. 
As a long-time competitor in triathlons, Hildebrandt believed Saint Mary's was an excellent place to begin a triathlon club. 
"I thought there were so many students who swim and bike. I thought it would be a good idea to have something relaxed to do to stay in shape," she said. "Another reason was for the swimmers out of season to have something else to do." 
Three of the women participat­ing in this weekend's race, Colleen Sullivan, Laurie Schulte 

and Julie McGranahan, arc 
members of the swim team. 
The triathlon club is open to 
Notre Dame students, although it 
has not been officially opened. 
Due to the fact that Hildebrandt 
will be leaving Saint Mary's at 
the end of the academic year, the 
club will not be able to officially 
open to Notre Dame students 
until winter semester of 2002. 
"We have to see how the fall 
goes first," Hildebrandt said. "We 
will make an announcement in 
the fall and then open practices 
in January." 
Because the triathlon season does not begin until April and Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students will be leaving for the summer, this is the only race the club will be able to participate in this spring. However, two races aro already scheduled for next fall. Women returning to campus in the fa.II will begin training for the two races, which are sched­uled for September, right away. 
"Next year the fall will be spent preparing for the two races in . September," Hildebrandt said. "We'll be getting the message out to returning members.''. 
With the official opening of the club to Notre Dame athletes, serious training for spring races will begin in January. 
With Hildebrandt leaving, who will run the club next year remains questionable. 
'Tm going to be asking one of the students if she'd be willing,H Hildebrandt said. 'Tm also look­ing to see who we bring in las assistant athletic director) and I've extended the offer to a triathlete who works on campus. 
"It's important we find some­one who can really organize the group. It needs more cohesion." 
ByANTHONY BISHOP 
,.
Spores Writer 

The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team proved its worth Wednesday, as they easily handled Ohio State. 18-12. 
The win moves the team to 9-4, matching their best ever win total. The Irish a I s o remain undefeated in their region. 
The Irish matched Ohio State's rough play not with physical repost, but with speed and control. Last year they faced harsh double-and triple-teaming, but proved to be well prepared Wednesday. 
Despite a slippery field and a couple of Buckeye runs, the frish stayed composed as they cruised to a 18-12 victo­
ry. 

The Irish seemed to domi­nate the Buckeyes for most of the game. 
Notre Dame's strong offen­sive pressure easily overpow­ered the hard play by Buckeye defenders while on the opposite end, sophomore Jen White stood solid in the crease with six saves. The 



Tll-u.rso1>.y, April 26 
5:00 p.m. Antostal bands and laser tag Fieldhouse Mall (begins at 4:00 p.m.) 
5:00 p.m.-7:00 p.m. Antostal karaoke, South Dining Hall 
5:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. Romance Language Department's Italian Coffee Hour, Decio 131 
6:00 p.m. "Six Sigma-The Pursuit of Continu­ous Improvement", lecture by Skip Weed, Mendoza College of Business Room 134 
7:00 
p.m. Lecture by Dave Herrington, "Conservation IS Conservative", Cushing 205 

7:00 
p.m. Sweet Sixteen of Bookstore Basketball, Stepan Courts 


7:30 
p.m. HA Unplugged! Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

7:30 
p.m. "Sacred Compromises and Holy Homonoia: Logos Theology and the Modes of Christian and Jewish Textuality in Late Antiquity", lecture by Daniel Boyarin, Hesburgh Center Auditorium 


8:00 
p.m. Discussion and viewing of "Date­line" Show About Farm Workers, DeBartolo 

8:00 
p.m. "Love and Shame at Notre Dame" with David O'Connor, DeBartolo 118 


119 

8:30 
p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, RSRC 

8:30 
p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 


9:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m Pangborn Phox Fire, Holy Cross Hill 
9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, Lafortune Student Center Huddle 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Proofoflife~ DeBartolo 101*and "Billy Elliot", DeBartolo155* 
5:00 
p.m. Antostal DJ, tie-dying and inflatable games, North Quad (begins at 4:00 p.m) 

5:00 
p.m. Elite Eight of Bookstore Basketball, Stepan Courts 

5:00 
p.m. "Accountability in the Treatment of Prisoners: Introduction to Midwest Groups Dealing with Prisons", Law School Courtroom 


6:00 p.m. Informal gathering for "Farmworker Awareness Week", Pasquerilla West 
7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 
7:00 p.m. Earth Week lecture on "Mountain Top Removal", Lafortune Montgomery Theatre 
7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, '!4 Summer's Tale'; Snite Museum* 
7:30 p.m. Sushi Night, Lafortune Notre Dame Room 
8:00 
p.m. Antostal concert: KGB, Fieldhouse Mall 

8:00 
p.m. ND Collegium Musicum, Moreau Seminary Chapel 

8:00 
p.m. Santanu Bandyopadhyay perform­ing Hindustanit vocal classical music Khayal, Hesburgh Center Auditorium 

8:00 
p.m. Movie, "ProofofLife: DeBartolo 101* & "Billy Ellior, DeBartolo 155* 


8:07 p.m. 807 Friday Night Mass, Coleman Morse Center Lounge 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ':4 Summer's Tale'; Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Proofoflife'; DeBartolo 101* & "Billy Elliot'; DeBartolo 155* 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish take care of Buckeyes 18-12 
Irish defense failed to be 
intimidated by the Buckeye's 
attempts to push the ball 
hard inside to their attack­
ers. 
The Irish dominated almost 
every aspect of the game by 
outshooting and outdrawing 
their opponent. Notre Dame 
had 39 shots to OSU's 23 and 
the Irish tallied 20 draw con­
trols to the Buckeyes' 12. 
"After the loss to 
Georgetown on Sunday, we 
were ready to go from the 
start," said junior Natalie 
Loftus, who scored a game­
high four goals against Ohio 
State. "Everyone was execut­
ing and we played well in our 
transition." 
The high speed transition that Notre Dame takes pride in was at full force Wednesday, as the ball quickly moved toward the goal. 
Scoring their first two goals early in the game. the Irish jumped out to 6-1 start, including two of three goals from freshman Meridith Simon, before Ohio State scored their second goal. The Irish then scored four straight goals from Loftus, juniors Alissa Moser and Tina Fedarcyk as well as sophomore Danielle Shearer. 
After another Buckeye score, Loftus and senior Lael O'Shaughnessy each scored onegoal to give the Irish a 
Sl>.'\u.rol>.y, April i8 
12-3 halftime lead. 
Ohio State opened up the second half with two goals by Tracy Bonds. This caught the Irish off guard, as they spent much of the half trying to catch their footing or chasing Buckeye attackers. 
Another goal by Loftus, which proved to be tho game­winner, found itself in the middle of a Buckeye run of four goals. "We weren"t get­tjng many breaks [early in the ha!O but we kept beating them in the midfield," said Loftus. 
This run ended as quickly as it started, however, as Notre Dame once again rat­tled off four consecutive goals. This run was sparked by freshman Kassen Delano's second goal. Ohio State fin­ished the game with a 5-1 run that gave the Irish an 18­12 win. 
The Irish were led by f'ive­po int performances from {)'Shaughnessy and Loftus. Loftus led the team with four goals while O'Shaughnessy led with two assists. 
Notre Dame's next game will be on Sunday at 1 p.m. It will be the final home game this season for O'Shaughnessy and fellow seniors Sarah LeSucur, Tara Durkin and Carrie Marshall. The game will be against Butgers and held in the Moose Krause Stadium. 
5:00 
p.m. Trip to Silver Hawks Baseball Game, Leave from Hesburgh Library Circle* 

5:00 
p.m. Final Four of Bookstore Basketball, Stepan Courts 


6:00 p.m. Graduate Recital Travis Boyette, trumpet, Hesburth Library Auditorium 
7:00 p.m.-11:00 p.m. Stanford S0's Fiesta, · North Quad 
7:00 p.m. Pangborn First Date, Alumni Senior Club 
7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ':4 Summer's Tate: Snite Museum* 
8:00 p.m. Movie, "ProofofLite: DeBartolo 101* and "Billy Elliot~ DeBartolo 155* 
8:00 p.m. Junior Recital Sean Lipscomb, trombone with Esther Upham, piano, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, 'fl Summer's Tale: Snite Museum* 
9:00 p.m. Bailamos at the Marriott, La Alianza Formal, buses leave at 9:00 p.m. * 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Proof ofLife': DeBartolo 101* and "Billy Elliot~ DeBartolo155* 
*Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC students 
Programs are subject to change without notice. For up to date information, check out the NO calendar, Today@ ND at www.nd.edu or call Student Activities at 631-7308. 
This ad is compiled and published by the Student Activities Office 
. -·--­

Thursday, April 26, 2001 page 25
The Observer . SPORTS 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 
Majesties' Wolb~ck rebounds from ACL to star at Stepan 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Senior SmffWriter 
Majesties· Matt Wolbeck never thought he'd play basketball again. 
The Notre Dame junior was a hot com­modity as a basketball player back in eighth grade in Peoria, Ill. But his basket­ball career went down the tubes in his first game at Peoria Notre Dame High School. 
"The first game of freshman year, I blew my knee out," Wolbeck said. "I tore my ACL. I came down on my roommate's foot and my knee hyperextended." 
Soon after, Wolbeck tried to get back to the game, but his leg just wouldn't heal. He underwent six MRis, four surgeries and a CAT scan before doctors fmally found an answer. 
"I had a benign tumor, and it was eating through my femur and tibia," Wolbeck said. "The doctor said that with one wrong step, I could have shattered both bones in my leg. He couldn't figure out how I was walk­ing, let alone trying to hobble down the court." 
Wolbeck went through his final surgery the summer after his junior year at Peoria Notre Dame. During the procedure. doctors removed bone from his hip and reinserted it into his knee, filling a hole the size of a ping pong ball. 
Three years spent on crutches had taken their toll on Wolbeck, but after a few months of attending rehab four days a week, he was ready to take the court once more. His high school coach worked him back into the game gradually, increasing his playing time from sporadic minutes at the season's start to full speed by tourney time. 
Despite the shortened season, Wolbeck's play was impressive enough to earn him third-team all-state honors. That's despite a talent pool that included current Los Angeles Clippers player Corey Maggette, University of Illinois player Frank Williams and University of Iowa player Rod Thompson, all of whom Wolbeck played MU ball with. 
"I was better in eighth grade than I was my senior year of high school," Wolbeck said. 
While Wolbeck may have been better in eighth grade, his skills were good enough to earn him a scholarship offer from Creighton University. The offer was half for basketball and half for Wolbeck's services as a pitcher in baseball. 
On the verge of heading to Creighton, Wolbeck chose to follow a family tradition. His dad Ken played basketball for the Irish from 1970-74, and his whole family had come to Notre Dame, with an older brother already there. 
"I had my mind set on Creighton the entire time," Wolbeck said, "and I was pret­ty much ready to go there. At the last minute, I decided I really wanted to go to Notre Dame. 
Unfortunately, Wolbeck had already missed the application date, so he spent his first year of college at Holy Cross. That year, he spoke with then-Irish men's bas­ketball coach John MacLeod about walking on Lhe squad once he traTL.-,ferrcd to Notre Dame. 
A year on the sidelines, however, con­vinced Wolbeck Division I basketball was no longer in his plans. That decision set the stage for him to join the Majesties in Bookstore Basketball, a team his older brother already played for. 
By the time Wolbeck joined Majesties, their rise to Bookstore royalty had already been a long time coming. 
The seeds for the team were planted back in junior high when Corey Hartmann, Justin Heberle and Derek Gautier met at Notre Dame basketball camp. 
Heberle and Gautier, both from South Bend, were already best friends, and Hartmann, who is from Chicago, joined their camp teams. All three were basket.ball buffs and all three hoped to come to Notre Dame. 
Year after year, the trio reunited at bas­ketball camp, even winning the team championship together their final year. 
"We'd meet here every summer," Hartmann said, "and we'd always play together." 
Hartmann got a surprise when he arrived at Holy Cross for his freshman year of col­lege. Both Heberle and Gautier, Penn High School grads whose parents work at Notre Dame. had passed up basketball offers from Division II and III programs. and were also attending Holy Cross. The three became fast friends and by the time spring rolled around, they decided to form a Bookstore Basket.ball team. 
As freshmen, Majesties advanced to the round of 32. The next year, with Hartmann now at Notre Dame and the other two still at Holy Cross, then-Holy Cross-freshman Wolbeck joined the squad, with his older brother already on the team. That year, Majesties made it all the way to the top eight. 
Each year, Majesties has gone a little bit further in the tournament. Last year, Hartmann, Heberle, Gautier, Wolbeck and Pete Hyan, a first-team all-tournament selection who now plays for No. 1 Five 
The Sweet Sixteen 
(1) 5 Reasons Your Girl Left You 
ST28 ~ 
(16) 
Check Your Head 

8 Dia er Dandies ST3 ~:15 

(9) 
Mayhem 

5 Bose hus ST210 

(12) 
5 Degree Guarantee 




13 Verzatilit ST7 8 (4) Majesties 

"~ai[anios" 

Spring Formal Downtown Marriot Hotel Saturday, April 28 Dancing begins at 9:30 PM Tickets available at door. $ 3/person or $ 5/couple 
Free shuttle transportation from Hosted by: 
9:00 PM -2:00 AM 
La ..'A.fianza 
at Alumni Circle 


Reasons Your Girl Left You, took their game to the final four. Wolbeck played la.st year's tournament with a cast on his arm, but it didn't hold back his team. 
"I shattered my ulnar nerve earlier in the tournament," Wolbeck said. "I smashed it and I had no feeling in my entire arm. I played with a cast on for the entire tourna­ment." 
Majesties carries a No. 4 ranking into tonight's Sweet 16. They traded Ryan for another first-team all-tournament pick from 2000, Sean McCarthy, picking up a lit­tle size in the switch. 
"We just swapped first-team all­Bookstore players," Heberle said. 
Majesties hope the switch pays off, no one more than Hartmann, a head commission­er of Bookstore who will graduate in May. 
"Football season's fun," said Hartmann, "but Bookstore's what I look forward to every year." 


ST2 9:15 
(15) Killer Boots, Man! 7 Freeballers 
ST3 10 
trategery 
6 N Ion Strokers ST7 9:15 
(11) Candy Rain 
14 Laz Bo z ST3 8 
(3) NDToday.com 
KATIE MCKENNA/The OBSERVER 

Have a event that deserves coverage? Please notify us by the Sunday before your event. 
e-mail Obsnews. l@nd.edu or phone 
631-5323 
Thursday, April 26, 2001 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 
ForIDer walk-on Kloska looks to lead NDToday to gold 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Senior Staff Writer 
B.J. Kloska always dreamed of being a basketball star at Notre Dame. 
The senior has become known at Notre Dame for his basketball skills, but not in the way he imag­ined. Instead of drawing fans to the Juyce Center, Kloska's sweet jump shot has attracted them to the Stepan courts to watch Bookstore Basketball. 
Growing up in nearby Elkhart as Lhe 10th of 13 kids, all of whom had au.ended Not.re Dame or Saint Mary's, Kloska's natural choice for 
.. college was Notre Dame. His old­est brother, Bobby, came hume talking about traditions like thP Four Horsemen and Knute Hockne. and the rest of the farnily got caught up in Notre Dame as well. By the time B.J. began look­ing at colleges, it barely even crossed his mind to attend a differ­ent school. Even more second nature to Kloska than coming to Notre Dame was a vision of himself play­ing college basketball. As a kid, Kloska's days revolved around basketball -going to school an hour-and-a-half early to shoot in the gym, practicing after school with the team, taking on his brothers in his backyard at night. 
"It [baskctbal!J is a huge tradi­tion in our family," B.J.'s older brother Jeff Kloska said. "BJ. out­does all of us as a basketball play­er." 
B.J.'s older brothers had all played for Marian High School. When B.J. got to Marian, he sur­passed them, breaking his older brolher's record for 3-pointers in a game with eight in his final game at Marian. He set high standards for his younger brolher Joey, three 
Come work for the No. 1 college newspaper in America. The Observer is now hiring paid positions for next school year. Call 1-4541. 
years behind him at Marian, to 
match. 

"B.J.'s by fru· the best Kloska to 
play," Joey said. "They were big 
shoes to fill. I don't think I quite 
filled them." 

In B.J.'s s1mior year at Marian, 
he earned third-team all-state 
honors, was named Metro Player 
of the Year and became the all­
time leading scorer at Marian. 
But all the accolades weren't 
enough for a scholarship offer to 
Notre Dame, and B..l. decided to 
pass on playing Division II or III 
basketball. 

"The thought had actually crossed my mind," B . .J. said, "but it didn't really cross it for very long because I knew I wasn't going to go to Lhe NBA" 
Instead, the 6-foot-3 B.J. chose to attend Holy Cross for a year. then cross the street to go to Notre Dame. That year, as a sophomore, he reached his goal of playing bas­ketball for Notre Dame, walking on for Coach John MacLeod's team. 
Playing for tbc Irish didn't quite match the picture-perfect image 
B.J. had in his mind. Coming off the bench in the final minute of games was a far cry from his high school role of go-to guy. Plus the time commitment was almost overwhelming. He decided to stick to Bookstore Basketball as a junior. 
"Sometime reality has to set in," said B.J. of his decision not to try out again for the varsity team. 'Tm very glad I did it looking back, but it's such a big time commitment. I felt like I was missing out on the social aspect of college." 
If B.J. couldn't play Division I basketball, Bookstore was a good alternative. All his older brothers had played in the tourney, with Mike and Jeff Kloska winning the tournament in 1996 on the team 

Dos Kloskas with B.J. watching 
from the stands. B.J.'s competitive 
nature made him want to best his 
brothers. 

"All the guys [in my family] have always grown up playing basket­ball," B.J. said, "and all of the boys have always tried to one up one another. So far. I've done a pretty good job of it, but they won Bookstore and I haven't." 
Ac; a freshman, 8.J. and current teammate Todd Titus advanced to the final eight on In Memory of McCon. Last year, the two Siegfried Hall roommates played for NDToday.com made it all the way to the championship, where they lost to Keyplay.com. with BJ. a first team all-tournament selec­tion. 
"He's our team leader," Titus said of B.J. "I think we all kind of look t.o him t.o see how he's play­ing, and we all feed off of him. E We talk about Bookstore all year long." 
B.J. and Titus are back on NDToday this year with their last shot at a Bookstore championship. Their three teammates graduated, including Mark Codish, first team all-tournament pick Dave Mikolyzk and second team selection Tim Muething. Replacing the three are B.J.'s curlent roommate and Bengal Bouts finalist Rob Joyce, off-campus senior Mike Oesterle and Holy Cross freshman Joey Kloska, B.J.'s younger brother. 
"This is the most exciting Bookstore team I've ever been on," 
B.J. said, "just because I've always wanted him [Joey] to be on the same team. We always just missed playing together. EIt would mean everything to me to win Bookstore, especially playing with my broth­er." 
B.J.'s four games away from making his dream come true. "Anything B.J. has ever put a 

goal out for himself," said Mike Kloska. "he's always reached it. I would never put anything past him. When he decides to do some­thing, he pretty much accomplish­es his goals.'' 
A few teams would like to stand in B.J.'s way, most notably top­ranked Five Reasons Your Girl Left You, No. 2 Versatility and No. 4 Majesties, all of which are veteran squads. But B.J.'s got a history of getting things done. 
Come to Notre Daine? Check. 
Make the Irish basketball team? Check. 
Win Bookstore? We'll see this 
w 
0 
m 
e 
n 


ofNotJr~ ~ 
weekend. 
Notes 
. Killer Boots, Man! will replace Boat Oub as the No. 15 seed after Boat Club was disqualified Wednesday for using an ineligible player. 
Notre Dame graduate and for­mer football player Tony Rice was ruled ineligible. Hice formerly worked for Notre Dame's Development Office, and continues to make appearances on behalf of the University, but is no longer an employee, thus disqualifying his team. 

The Office for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and the Notre Dame Career Center proudly present the first ever event for the Women of Notre Dame Visitor Series. 
The Women of Notre Dame Project is a joint project intended to celebrate 30 years of co­education by providing strong female role models and mentors for our students and women supporters for our campus community. In the Visitor's Series, we invite women alums to campus to talk about their careers and particular expertise. 
Mary Monnat, President and CEO Tualatin Valley Behavioral Health Centers 
Ms. Monnat is a 1980 American Studies graduate 
Friday, April 27, she will give an informal talk over lunch on Balancing Career and Family Lunch will be provided 
11 :30 a.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy 
A more formal talk on "My (Brilliant) Career: Life After Graduation" 
3 p.m. in 114 O'Shaughnessy 

Thursday, April 26, 2001 The Observer . TODAY 
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 

BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
SOUNDS KEEP WHINING 
1 HE.'.R YOU'VE foR 
GooD. LET YOU !<NOW, ANO I'll GoT A SUPER­MONEY? 
A 8UCl<­ME GET MY PETER LETS MAKE IT $2. 
TOUC:JH MATH 
FIFTY. Pt&GY SANIC. ME Do HIS 
I
ASSIGNMENT. 
IMPoSSlBLE
I 
I 

~ PRoSLEMS ME Do IT? FoR FREE. \ 
CARE To LET 
TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

A business major accidentally wanders into the library. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Was in the running for 8 Summer dress feature 14 They often start "Here• 16 Jim Palmer, once 
17 Where The Gazette is published 
18 Kind of club 19 Hoops stat. 20 Forfeit again 22 Benjamin 
Disraeli, e.g. 23 African pullover 24 Schoolmarmish 26 Mr. _of 
"Peter Pan" 28 "Th ere it is!" 30 August 
birthstone 34 Siesta time 
36 In direct competition 
38CD-_ 
39 Inventor who inspired this puzzle 
41 Get spliced 42 Parts left out 45 Fosters, for one 48 First name in 
mystery writing 49 Sri Lanka export 51 Ninny 52 • Stars," #1 
hit for Freddy Martin, 1934 54 Symbol of punctuality 56 Ale relative 
59 Waterside accommodations provider 
61 Duffel 64 Rare birth 66 Weigh heavily 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
A H S ...,..+:-:-+-,=+,,+.-,, U C K 0 REC IME NHIP 
68 Sewer, maybe 69 Screenwriter's start 70 Auto gauge shower 71 Speech enliveners 
DOWN 

1 Rope material 2 Per 3 Like Errol Flynn 4 Old Polo 
Grounds favorite 5 Hung back 6 Take _ (look) 7 Muse of comedy 8 Draw game? 9 Valuable deposit 
1oQB protectors 11 Hawaiian storm 12 16-Across, for 
short 13 "I'm all ears· 15 Pavement 
caution 21 Goes over 23 Dancer's 
partner? 25 Wall St. event Answers to any three clues in this puzzle name 

A I  R  N 0.............,,,.......  ...+,....,.-...---26 Vodka brand, informally  
27 First lady with  
bangs  
29 Chestnut, e.g.  
....+-,+.::+::-t  31 Spur part  
32 Like krypton  
=+...+,-,+::+::-1  33 Lavished love  
(on)  
35 Comic Philips  
....+...+-::-1  37 Elusive one  
.....,,,...,,,..  38 Timber tree with  
colored inner  
bark  


Puzzle by David J. Kahn  
40 When some  56 Commuter's  61 "Viva Maria!"  
footballs are  run?  actress, 1965  
hiked  57 Pride of Israel  62 Play to_  
43 Like many doors  58 Dugout shelter  63 Some G.M. cars  
44 French pronoun 46 Good name for  60 When half of rush hours  65 Book after Ezra: Abbr.  
a girt writing a  occur: Abbr.  67 Part of X-X·X  
postscript?  
47 Beckett title  

are available by touch-tone phone: 50 Athens's state, 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
in ancient times 

Annual subscriptions are available for the 53 Call off 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 55 Euripides play years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/
• 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: John Gielgud, Julie Christie, Rod Steiger, Loretta Lynn, Pete Rose, John Shea, Sarah Michelle Gellar 
Happy Birthday: You'll have plenty of ideas and plans to con­quer your world, but must be careful not to take on too much. Less is best this year. Ii you focus on what's really important to you, success will follow. If you recog­nize your limitations and ask for assistance, you will do much bet­ter than even you anticipated. Your numbers: 8, 19, 23, 26, 42, 47 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll 19): Don't take others for granted or promise more than you can deliv­er. You will find yourself in the limelight for all the wrong rea­sons. Overindulgence must be avoided.00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will pick up some valuable information if you spend time with an older relative who has the same interests. Attend an antique auction or a flea market. You'll find some good buys. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't take on too strenuous a task Minor injury or exhaustion will result. Make changes in your home that will add to your com­fort. It's time to pamper yourself for a change. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Your partner isn't likely to share the same ideals as you. Try to be honest and open, or you will have difficulty coming to terms with the problems that arise. Don't pre­tend to be what you're not. 00 
LEO (July 23•Aug. 22): You can make professional changes if you spend time looking for other ways to make a living. Attend seminars that will help you learn 
EUGENIA LAST 
more about starting your own 
business. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Travel should be on your agenda. 
Romance will be enticing and 
lead to new and exciting plans for 
the future. Expect to run into peo­
ple from your past. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 
Emotional deception will cause 
friction with those you live with. 
You can expect sorrow to evolve 
from the information you discov­
er. Be honest with yourself and 
face the music head-on. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
It won't be easy to please family, 
friends or in-laws. It is better to 
please yourself than bang your 
head against a wall. You need to 
relax and get in touch with your 
own feelings. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nmc 22-Doc 21): 
You will be emotional about 
money matters if you let cash slip 
through your fingers. You need to 
put your finances in order once 
and for all. You must set and stick 
to a budget. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You will be emotional regarding your present relationship. Don't make rash decisions. You have to make a concerted effort before you throw in the towel. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Don't become involved in secret matters even if you do find them intriguing. Be careful how you handle the situation. You could end up taking the blame for something you didn't do. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your intuition will lead you in the right direction. Take care of home-improvement projects and real estate matters. Your ideas will be well planned and easily implemented. 0000 
. Birthday Baby: You're a determined little character who is always m _the TI?ddle of whatever is going on. You have a good eye and a qmck rrund. You have the stamina to accomplish your goals and a per­suasive perso~ty that will sway others to follow your lead. 
(N~ed advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugerualastcom, astromate.com.) 
© 2001 Universal P.ess Syndicate 

------~---------------------------------~--------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester ... 
Name --------------------------­
Address------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
_1 
j 




April Madness 
Bookstore Basketball heats up with the Sweet 16 taking to the Stepan Courts tonight. 
pages 25 and 26

PORTS 
O
THE page 28 BSERVER Thursday, April 26, 2001 
BASEBALL 
No. I Notre Dame splits twin bill with Valparaiso 
By COLIN BOYlAN 
Spores Writer 
It turns out the Irish only have so much late inning magic, after all. 
After deteating Valparaiso 7-3 in the first game of an evening dou­bleheader, the Notre Dame base­
.... 
ball team was unable to come back from a late deficit, losing a close 4­2 game in the second contest. 
The Irish trailed 4-1 in the final inning of the nightcap, but fought to keep their 16 game winning streak alive. With runners Paul O'Toole and Andrew Bushey on the corners after consecutive sin­gles. designated hitter Ken MeyP,r stepped up to the plate. 
Irish fans collectively held their breath and prayed for· a repeat of last week's heroics, when Meyer hit a two out grand slam to give the team a 6-4 victory against Central Michigan. 
It was not to be, however, as Meyer was only able to manage a slow ground ball to first base. And while the grounder brought O'Toole home, the next batters Joe Thaman and Steve Stanley both made outs to end the game. 
While the loss snapped Notre Dame's longest winning streak in more than eight years, head coach Paul Mainieri was not dwelling on that fact. 
"Any time you lose, it's disap­pointing," said Mainieri. "But we played very well in the first game, and I'd like to think our team will focus on that aspect." 

The first game was textbook Notre Dame baseball. The team scored early, thanks to the hustle of Stanley, their lead off man. 
The junior center fielder opened the game with a base hit off Valparaiso's Eric Brauer. He then proceeded to steal both second and third base before scoring on Alec Porzcl's sacrifice fly. 
The game remained close until the fourth inning. when the Irish bats struck again. Designated hit­ter Matt Bok ripped a triple to right-center, scoring Bushey, and subsequently came home on a sac­rifice fly from Thaman. Four con­secutive hits by Stanley, Steve Sollman, Brian Stavisky and Kris Billmaier brought home three more runs and ended Brauer's evening. Ry the end of the inning, the Irish led 7-0. 
That was plenty of cushion for starting pitcher Drew Duff who, despite making only his second start of the year. pitched like a vet­eran, striking out four and allow­ing only two hits through five innings of work. 
Ryan Kalita came on in the sixth to finish out the seven-inning con­test. Although the junior reliever ran into a little trouble in his two innings of work, he was nonethe­
see BASEBALL/page 24 


Mulligan joins nation's elite with Boston finish 
was on it. So was skydiving and By KATIE HUGHES mountain climbing, though I Sports Writer haven't done either of them yet." Mulligan, who finished l,216th It's fun to be part of something overall. qualified to run in big. It's better to be among the Boston by running 3:09 in best at something big. October's Chicago marathon, 
Senior Rene Mulligan was the her first one. Based on that per­67th woman formance, she was expected to to cross the finish 4,269th overall. finish line at "Being able to run the the 105th marathon is the reward for your Boston training," Mulligan said. "I went Marathon on to Boston just planning to enjoy April 16, fin-it and see what I could do." ishing the Running through the neighbor­
26.2 mile hoods of Boston as more than course in 3 half a million people watched, hours and 3 wearing an "Irish" shirt and minutes. slapping kids' hands as she Boston attracts more than passed, Mulligan maintained a 
15,000 of the best marathoners pace of 7:04 per mile. in the world, and Mulligan's "There are just walls of people time puts her among the cheering for you," Mulligan said. nation ·s elite. "The point where you have six 
"I once made this list of things miles to go is the hardest. You I wanted to do in my life," said Mulligan. "Running a marathon 
see MULLIGAN/page 18 
... • 
Baseball at St. Jo_hn's
SPORTS 
Saturday -Sunday 
ATA 

I .... Rowing
GLANCE • at Big Ease Challenge 
l t 
Saturday -Sunday 

Triathlon club set to race 
training. "That's atypical," By KATIE McVOY This fall members of the Hildebrandt said. But it offers Associate Sports Editot triathlon club participated in a a good starting position for her 
triathlon hosted by Saint athletes because the length "is 

They're going the distance, Mary's, racing against mem­not overwhelming." but they're going for more bers of their community. The race will be part of the than speed. They're going to Saturday's race, however, will Collegiate Triathlon get physical; they're going to be a big Association's get their names out; they're step into the (CTA) cam­going to prove a point. world of "Our main goal is to paign to 
Six Saint Mary's students intercolle­increase
have Jun and get our 

and one Notre Dame student giate com­awareness of will be taking part in the petition. name out there." triathlons at Southern lllinois University " [ Th e the collegiate triathlon this Saturday in a members of Gretchen Hildebrandt level. push to bring the attention of the club] "The CTA is
triathlon club coach

the United States Triathlon don't know something Association (USTA) to colle­w h a t we're trying giate triathletes. they're to prove to 
"Our main goal is to have about to face," Hildebrandt the USTA," Hildebrandt said. fun and get our name out said. "[The race] is a great "It's in its trial stages and there," said Gretchen starting point for them." we're trying to get support Hildebrandt, head coach of the Saturday's race is unusual from colleges a.nd get. U1e.m l.o Saint Mary's triathlon club. for a triathlon. Most triathlons compete to prove that it's 
This will be the first intercol­consist of a 500-yd swim, a 12-important to have a collegiate. legiate race that the newly mile bike and a five-mile run. association." formed Saint Mary's triathlon However, this weekend's race Currently, 53 schools are club will partic_ipate in. The L<l a much shorter course. The registered members of CTA. club was formed during the participants will take part in a Saint Mary's marks the second 1999-2000 academic year and 400-yd swim, a five-mile bike has spent the last two years in and a two-mile run. 
see TRIATHLON/page 24 

Men's Lacrosse Foorball vs. Harvard Blue-Gold Game Saturday, I p.m. Saturday, I:30 p.m. 
Women's Tennis ..r.ili Men's Golf at Alma 
'ff at Big East Championsihp Saturday-SundaySaturday, 1 p.m. 




