
Neighborly chit-chat 
Flying high 
Tuesday
President George W Bush met with Canadian 
Scene music critic Maureen Smithe reviews 
prime minister Jean Chertien on Monday to 
the indie release "The Autopilot Know You 
discuss U.S. relations between Mexico and Canada. 
Best" by the up and coming band, The Places. 
FEBRUARY 6, 
World & Nation . page 5 
Scene . page 12 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Daine and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 81 


Friends fondly remember Murphy 

Women emerge as viable candidates 
By FINN PRESSLY 
Senior Staff Writer 
Leading a freshman relreat in the fall of 1999. Conor Murphy had Lhrec words of advice: Do a puzzle. 
"'During finals week, Conor was totally insistent that the best thing to do was a puzzle. Ile bou~ht a 1000 picc,, and would spent hours in the hall­ways of Zahm doing puzzles," said follow retreat team mem­ber Dory Mitros. "1 lerc are all thesu freshmen going into their first round of exams, and there is Conor saying 'do a puzzle.' Ile was a complete riot." 
Active in Campus Ministry and vice-president or the College Uemocrats. Murphy brought his unique, enduring style to all h11 did. 
"lie was a really fun-loving guy with a really strong faith. You can't meet Conor and not remember him," said close friend Meghan Cooney. 
What many will remember most about Murphy is his love of conversation. 
"Ile had the most remark­able presence. I've never worked with anyone who was so captivating to his audience, and who immediately felt such a connection to everyone he was talking to," she said. "I think it was something that God physically gave Conor to look at a person and say this is what you need right now and I'm going to be the one to give it to you." 
Senior Liam Hrennan, who, as co-president of the College Democrats. worked extensively with Murphy. recalled an inci­dent that occurred while he was studying in the library. 
"lie came up to my carrel 
and started talking, and we 
talked for like an hour and a 
Editor's note: This is the sec­ond of a five-part series exam­ining different issues in this years student body election. 
By LAURA ROMPF A.si•tant News Editor 
When Brooke Norton walked into an informational meeting for student body president and vice president candidates last spring. she was surprised. Of the 22 total students in atten­dance, she was the only female in tho room. 
"I never figured I'd be the only f'cmalc." Norton said. "I wondered why there weren't 
P: 
Nagle, Matha take office 
. Elections yield low voter turn­out, abstentions 
By AMY GREENE News Writer 
Michelle Nagle and Kristen Matha are the newly elected Saint Mary's 
s t u d e n t See Also b o d y 
president "SMC students 
and vice votetokeepthe pres i­
d O n t . Keenan Revue" conclud-page6 ing an u n con.­tested campaign. "It feels really good to have won," said Nagle. "We're really excited to get started and we' re happy with the results and ready to move for­ward." Nagle and Matha received 63 percent of the student vote with 36 per­cent of the students abstaining. However. only 
25.4 percent of the stu­dent body participated in the election. resulting in 16 percent of the student body who actually voted for Nagle/Matha. 
"We tried to do as much campaigning as possible to get people to vote," said Nagle. "Some people may not have voted since only one ticket was running. but people need to know that their vote does mat­ter and they need to voice their opinions and con­cerns." she said. 
The voter turnout per­centage was lower in part because abroad students were included in the elec­tion percentages. This is the first year abroad stu­dents had the opportunity to vote via e-mail and since most decided not to vote, this lowered the turnout percentage con­siderably. 
"The total number of students allowed to par­ticipate in the election went up with the newly implemented abroad stu­dent voting," said elec­tions commissioner Stephanie Pace. "Not many participated, how­ever. and this lowered the percentage of students 
sec ELECTION/page 6 

Photos courtesy of Me~han Cooney On a visit to campus last May, Murphy (lower left) poses with friends after shaving their heads in a show of support as he underwent treatment. Pictured above are Al Vitter, Conor Murphy Gabe Ibanez, Wes Jacobs, George Remus, Steve Napleton, Brian Wahl and John LeBlanc'. Below, Murphy shares a laugh wltll friend Meghan Cooney during Chlrstmas '99. 
half. People at the library got so annoyed. My roommate Matt just got up and walked up away. For days, people would say 'Who was that kid you were talking to for an hour and a hair?"' he said. "Jlarely have I met anyone that I loved talking to as much as him. He could really talk." 
His gift for conversation com­
plemented an idiosyncratic 
style that. endeared him to 
many of those he met. 
"He never went a day without 
argyle socks," said Mitros. "He 
was always dressed to the 
nines. There were days he 
wouldn"t have the laundry 
done. so he'd wear his Doc 
Martens without socks because 
see CONOR/page 4 


any other females, but l was "The stage is set for a female University. a woman has never glad I was there." president," presidential candi­been student body president. Norton, along with student date Demetra Smith said. "'The However, this year there are 
body presi­dent Brian 0'Donoghue, won that race of 11 tickets, and since their election, the composi­tion of Notre Dame student government has changed. Five of this year's six 

"The only way Notre Dame will be ready for a female president is by experiencing and trying it. " 
Demetra Smith student body presidential candidate 
tickets have at least one back." 
only way Notre Dame will be ready for a female president is by cxperienc­ing and try­ing it. We can't let the fact that there's never been a woman presi­dent hold us 
several women in high student union positions. Norton said both heads of the Student Union Board (SUB) are female, as well as the senior class pres­ident and several class officers. 
"There are a lot more women at meetings this year," Norton said. "I think there has been a general change in attitude." 
Vice presidential candidate Nikki McCord, who is running with Hyan Becker, said she has not felt discriminated against while serving as a student sen-

female, and one ticket is two Since 1972, when women wern first admitted into the
women. see WOMEN/page 8 
page 2 
The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, February 6, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Right on, Sister! 

Every year, there is a conference of the National Catholic Education Association (NCEA). Designed as a means of opening dia­logue and strengthening faith among religious educators, the conference invites noted speak­ers to address more than 10,000 participants from across the country. 
This year, thanks to Father Kris Stubna, secre­tary of education of the Diocese of Pittsburgh, the conference will have several 

Maureen Smithe 
Assistant News Editor 

QUOT-ES OF THE WEEK 
"Justice is very slow. "'God, country, Notre I think it's not only Dame' and 'duty, slow in Chile but honor, country· are everywhere.» not. too far apart. " 
Juan Gabriel Valdes Lieutenant Colonel Ambassador to the Michael Edwards on the 
United States on human relationship between rights violations of former ROTC and ND Chilean dictator, Augusto 
Pinochet 
"It's much more like the movement ofa glacier than a light­ning bolt through the sky." 
Father Tom Doyle Keough Hall rector on the progress of gay rights at ND 
"Compared to past years, the show is considerably tamer. " 
Chris Martin Keenan Revue producer amid controversial content of the annual show 

OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 
University of Ill. may prevent Internet theft 
hundred fewer participants in attendance. 
When Stubna heard that the Conference invited Sister Joan Chittister to be a featured speaker, he barred staff, educators and youth ministers from attending the four-day convocation. 
In a vague, one-page memo sent to those in his 220-parish diocese. Stubna said that no diocesan staffshall attend the conference and that diocesan expenditure will not be allotted for any expenses resulting from the trip. 
Why did Stubna make such a bold statement? 

Because Sr. Chittister is a strong advocate for women's full equality in the Church -includ­ing women's ordination. Stubna state.din his memo that the "convocation suffers from a lack of completeness in its program and an incom­patibility with authentic teaching. These cir­cumstances are detrimental to the faith devel­opment of persons in ministry." 
Stubna is not the only ignorant one. 

On Jan. 17, Bishop John Myers of the Diocese of Peoria, IL, also sent a memo prohibiting the pastors, principals and chaplains in his diocese from attending the convention, citing reasons similar to Stubna's. 
In other words, they don't agree with Chittister. 
I find great irony in the actions of Father Stubna and Bishop Myers. They are barring educators from attending a conference focused on education. These educators are not impres­sionable young children, but rather full-grown adults capable of making their own rational decisions based on a lifetime of experience and learning. 
Chittister is a beacon of hope for many disen­chanted Catholics. She represents the continu­ing process of change that all theology must undergo. In order for positive change to occur, open dialogue must be encouraged. Stubna and Myers have resorted to scare tactics and blind leadership in hopes of preventing change ­quite childish in my opinion. 
The Church has a right to establish the rules it considers necessary. but it should not com­pletely block off discussion about potentially controversial issues. As human beings, we need to recognize that change is a prerequisite to growth. We should welcome differences of opinions as a chance to strengthen our own. 
She told the National Catholic Reporter she considers the current situation, "to be a sad position for educators to take who claim to be training the next generation to think," and that Stubna's and Myers' actions are forms of "intimidation and censorship, both of which are shameful in a so-called academic commu­nity." 
A closed mind is a wonderful thing to lose. 

To help Chittister's cause, email Stubna at commWiications@diopitt.org and write to Myer at 412 NE Madison Ave., Peoria, IL, 61603. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maureen Smithe Sam Derheimer Kiflin Turner Chris Scott 
Christine Kraly Graphics Sports Jose Cuellar Lauren Conti 
Production Bryan Kronk 
Kerri Smith 

Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Kurt Bogaard Naomi Cordell 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during c:JWn and vacation period.,. The Observer is a nmnbcr of ,he A>sociattd Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
The research of University of Illinois professors could outwit Internet pirates with digital "watermark" cod­ing designed to protect personal prop­erty and prove ownership. 
Pierre Moulin, professor of comput­er and electrical engineering, said watermarking online documents could prevent hackers from copying, selling and possibly making a profit on the creator's material. The theory behind watermarking is to hide bits of infor­mation within an image, creating an invisible copyright, Moulin said. 
Creators can conceal their signa­tures and their personal information, as well as the dates material was cre­ated inside sounds, documents, images and even video, Moulin said. 
Ralf Koetter, professor of computer and electrical engineering and a cod­ing theorist, said a watermark would not destroy the quality of an image or audio recording and would substan­tially aid in proving ownership of stolen material to a third party, such 

as a court. 

UNIVERSITY OF NORTH TEXAS 

Fraternity banned on -racist slurs 
AUSTIN 

University of North Texas administrators handed down a decision Friday to put a five-year ban on the Kappa Alpha Order fraternity chapter. following reports of racially-motivated harassment that occurred Jan~ 27. The chapter can no longer partic­ipate in university activities as an organization and must vacate its house as soon as other suitable hous­ing is found. The university administration's investiga­tion, which concluded Friday, reported that approxi­mately 35 Kappa Alpha members shouted racial slurs at African-American football recruits who were tour­ing the student union. The fraternity members, who were present at a separate event, also waved a Confederate flag at the prospective students, said wit­nesses who summoned the university's police depart­ment. Peter Wells, a government junior and president of the Kappa Alpha fraternity chapter at the University, said he is embarrassed by the actions of his UNT counterpart. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend For~ast 
AccuWealher lix-ecast for daytime coooitions and high rempemrures 

"(This research) is extremely impor­
tant in a world where information is 
traveling so fast," Koetter said. 
Lightning-quick information travel 
invites easy access to material for 
code-cracking hackers. Moulin said 
fear of theft has prevented people 
from putting innovations on the Web 
and has stunted the distribution of 
new products. 
"DVD has been ready for years," 
Moulin said. "Concerns about proper­
ty rights have delayed the entrance of 
how widespread the technology could 
have been at the time." 
Koetter said there are products now available on the market that try to prevent Internet theft now. but they aren't as effective as they could be. He · said pirates have been able to deci­
pher some products' codes. 
AMERICAN UNIVERSITY 
Officials speculate grade inflation 
WASHINGTON 

The number of As awarded in classes at American University has been steadily increasing in the past 10 years, raising questions of academic standards as well as what percentage of students receiving high grades actually deserve them. In the spring of 1989, 16.8 per­cent of the grades awarded in undergraduate courses at AU were As and 13.8 percent were A-s. In the spring of 2000, the percentage of A's had risen to 23.6 and A­s to 15.5. "Nearly a quarter of grades issued are As. Add A-s and you are at 40 percent," Don Bunis, the University Registrar, said. The Registrar is not the only one who has taken notice of these figures. "We've got 10 percent more As and that has to concern me," Provost Neil Kerwin said. It is a topic that is often dis­cussed between faculty in the different schools. Glenn 
. Harnden, acting dean of the School of Communication. said. Grade inflation is a concern that many colleges and universities around the country have been trying to address. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather«> forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 6. 
......... 

0 2001 AoouW..tt.r, lno. 
STATIONARY 
@''°co D CJ D D IZJ D 
H6gh low Showers Rain T-11-torm• Flurrlea Snow lcl!I 

Atlanta  59  40  Las Vegas  67  39  Portland  44  32  
Ballimore  48  39  Memphis  61  37  Sacramento  61  35  
BOS1on  41  32  Milwaukee  34  24  St Louis  46  30  
Chicago  35  24  New York  45  37  Tampa  70  51  
Houston  71  57  Philadelphia  46  35  Washington DC 47  37  


Tuesday, February 6, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
CARE addr~ D1e01bers about 'Monologues' controversy 
Alumnae Board. Eldred will also sponsor a performance of theBy COLLEEN McCARTHY send an e-mail to the College play this year. Koelsch and the 
Associa1c News Editor 
student body describing her rea­other CARE members have said, 
sons for not allowing the play to however, that if individual stu­
Hoard mombers of tho be performed this year. dents want to get together and Campus Alliance for Hape Julie Frischkorn, a CARE have a reading of the play, there Elimination tCAHE) bri<'fcd board member and BOG is nothing they can do because nrnmbcrs of the Board of Women's Issues commissioner they have no control over \Vhat Governance on their meeting noted that the other stu­with Saint Mary's administra­administration dent'l do. tors last week and fielded ques­acknowledged ''.As Jar as having the K a t i e tions from Board members that academic play performed on Robinson, rcjl'.arding tho play, "The Vagina freedom junior class
campus this year, we
Monologues." would allow president Tim administration has profe~sors to agreed to disagree. " a s k c d rduscd Lo allow the nationally read the play whether hav­ar.daimnd play by Eve Ensler to in their class­ing an
Emily Koelsch 
be pnrformcd at Saint Mary's es and that "under­
CARE board member
although it was performed in there was ground.. pcr­F1ibruary of 2000 at the College. nothing the fo rmance of 
"The administration had a lot administration t h e of suggestions about what they could do to prevent that f'rom "Monologues" would hinder the think would be more inclusive taking place. chances of the administration activilim; for the campus relalive Board members asked numer­allowing the play to be per­to addressing issues of sexuality ous questions of the CARE rep­formed in the future. that they prnscntnd to us," said resentatives including asking "I don't think there is anything Emily Koelsch. a Ct\HE board CAHE to address whether besides student pressure that member. "As far as having the rumors relating to a possible will get it performed again next play performed on r.ampus this performance of the play were year," said Poynter. "The year, we agreed lo disagree." true. administration wants to sec this 
Koelsch told Board members ··1 don't know anything about iss.ue die and go away. Maybe if that CAHE had accomplished its that and I prefer not to respond students do perform it on their two goals going into the meet­to underground stodes and own people will go and see it ing. The administration will rumors," said CARE member and be inspired and want to allow CAHE to send a letter Katie Poynter. push for a presentation of the describing the play and the need llowcver, CARE members play on campus next year," said ror it on campus to the ParonL<; have agreed wilh the adminis­Hobinson. Council, Board of Trustees and tration that the group would not Another issue raised by off-
Be a Heartsaver! 
February is American Heart Month. 
,,,,,, r Pagemaker? 

t~lit 


o looLt
'\; 


A run job with aifflan -. on a resume. 

Work for The Observer Ad Design Department 
If you are a FRESHMAN OR SOPHOMORE with Mac knowl­edge, design skills, and want to work for a few hours a week, call Chris Avila at 634-0886 or stop by The Observer office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. You will not find a better job on campus! Great Pay!! Very Flexible!!! 
CUSHWA CENTER FOR STUDY OF AMERICAN OLICISM 
yresents 
campus commissioner Kristy Sutorious was whether the threat of donors refusing to make good on financial dona­tions to the College ii' the play was performed was a factor in Eldred's decision. 
"[Eldred) told us -that it was not a question or money," Koelsch said. ''Rather, she said it was a question of respecting the interests of all constitmm­cies on campus.'' 
Vice president Michelle Nagle asked whether a play with the "shock value" of the "Monologues" was the best way to address issues of sexuality when many of the students at Saint Mary's had gone to Catholic schools all their lives where issues of sexuality were not discussed in such a direct fashion. 
"If these students have grown up in a naive atmosphere and now they're in college, should there be other things to build on first that would make the play less shocking," asked Nagle. "My question is if the shock value of the play will necessarily attract the students who need to see it or if the shock value will turn them away." 
Frischkorn responded that there arc a variety of other activities on campus such as panel discussions, CAHE meet­ings and Feminist Collective meetings where students can talk about issues of sexuality in a small-group setting. 
"It's not necessarily the shock value of the play," said Koelsch. "Rather, it's poignant descrip­tions of experiences other women have had." 
Discussion between Board members then focused on whether they should make a statement regarding the admin­istration's decision to not allow the performance. 
"I don't know if I think it is appropriate for us to endorse the play this year and if an endorsement would be effective because some or us on the Board haven't seen the play," said student representative to the Board of Trustees, Molly Kahn. 
"I have my personal opinion 
about the play but I've had 
many students approach me 

who don't like it and I don't know who I feel about voting on behalf of the student body if I don't know what their opinion is," said Kahn. 
Sophomore class president Kristin Matha also suggested the Board gather more student opinion before making a statn­ment. 
"I think we need some sort of way to gauge student opinion," said Matha. 
Kahn said that making a statement could inhibit the dia­logue that is now taking place with the administration. 
"I think we need to allow a dialogue to continue on this issue," said Kahn. "We should seek to be collaborative here and not antagonistic. I think that would be the most respon­sible way for us to go." 
In other news: 
. 
The Board tabled discussion of the Keenan Hcvue issue until next time when all members (who went to sec the Hevue) were present and the data from the ballot initiative was returned. 

. 
Athletic commissioner Nickey Prezioso updated the Board on the discontinuation of the track team after this season. 


"We basically had nothing in terms of facilities and we don't have enough staff," said Prezioso. "[Athletic director Lynn Kachmirik] said that she didn't want to shortchange the track team." 
Prezioso also said that the current track coaches have agreed to stay on next season and coach the team as a club sport without pay. 
Student Diversity Board President and track team mem­ber Akmaral Omarova said members of the team arc meet­ing with Linda Timm, vice prnsi­den t for student affairs, on Tuesday to discuss the elimina­tion of the team. 
"For 18 years we haven't had the facilities for the team and now it is all of a sudden being eliminated so this isn't just an issue that arose overnight about lack of facilities and coaches," said Omarova. 
Tuesday, February 6, 2001

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Conor 
continued from page 1 
Martens without socks because 
he didn't have any argyle 
socks. If he didn't have argyle 
socks, he didn't wear socks." 
"I definitely think I wear argyle socks more since I've been friends with him," Brennan said. "He was older than his years -he definitely dressed older. I can still see him walking on the quad with his Oxford shirt tucked into his khakis -I don't think the kid owned a pair of jeans. I don't even think he owned sneak­ers." 
Even his car reflected his 
own brand of humor, Mitros 
said. 
"He drove a station wagon, 
and he loved it. It was the old 
kind that moms drove, with the 
wood on the side," she said. 
"Ile was the king of the station­
wagon. He was just the funni­
est person I know." 
As a retreat leader, Mitros 
said Murphy went to whatever 
lengths necessary to make the 
experience as positive as possi­
ble. 
"On the retreat, there was a 
skit where he and I were sup­
posed to act out a dorm party, 
so he imitated the music of 
dorm party and was sitting 
there rapping so people could 
dance ... and he was totally 
tone deaf," she said. "He had 
no problem making an ass of 
himself, and he would make an 
ass of himself if he thought 
that's what it required for you 
to have a good experience." 
Murphy also took his acade­
mics seriously, Brennan said. 
"Conor made you want to 

read more. Being friends with him made you want to be smarter. He was always clip­ping articles and mailing them to me. I was always flattered because he thought I knew as much as he did, and I didn't," he said. 
Brennan remembers one clip­ping in particular -a speech from then presidential candi­date Bill Bradley that conclud­ed with, "Don't give in. Do not settle." 
"It's kind of emblematic of Conor. Don't settle," he said. ''You never want to settle. He had a great fighting spirit. Fighting for what he believed in -holding his ground." 
Friends remember fondly the ways that this spirit showed itself in his personality. 
"He could be obstinate, he could be stubborn -he could be a pain in the ass," Brennan said. "But even in that, he was such a pleasure to be around." 
Mitros expressed similar sen­timents. 
"The first word that comes to mind when I think about Conor is ornery. He was ornery as hell. He was such a trouble­maker. He was the most fun, most troublesome person ... and at the same time, there was this person who had this incredibly peaceful presence about him," Mitros said. "It was completely balanced by this incredibly involved and bright student who had a definite future in politics. H 
According to former room­mate Wes Jacobs, Murphy took a special interest in the Irish­American Experience, a class that addresses the story of Irish emigration to America. 
"In Friday discussion, Conor basically led the discussion, 

since I think he knew more than our TA. Conor was the epitome of the phrase, 'Irish American,"' he said. 
His passion for Ireland took him to Belfast in the summer of 1999 as an intern with the Social Democratic Labor Party (SDLP). 
The message of the SDLP, according to Brennan, had great resonance in Murphy's own mission. 
"He really liked the SDLP, and he was always the Nationalist in spirit, but he felt that the SDLP was the only party there that made any sense," Brennan said. "They tried to make do with what they had, and wanted to make the best of the situation. They wanted to get stuff done." 
Before coming to Notre 
Dame, Murphy also volun­teered building houses in the Dominican Republic. 
"He talked [in retreats] about how that experience of poverty and service and changed his life," Mitros said. 
"At St. Ignatius High School [Murphy's alma mater]. their motto is being a man unto oth­ers, and Conor was man for others," Brennan said. "He did as much for others as he could." 
Murphy also carried with him a strong faith that affected many of those around him. 
"He talked about his faith like nobody's business. He talked about trust and the will of God all the time. He talked about having this sense of trust and understanding everything in the context of your faith and everything will be fine," said Mitros. "That's not something that came with his illness. It was his guiding principle before that." 
His faith also gives solace to those left behind. 
"The beauty of the situation when you have a strong faith is that Conor's true happiness has only just begun," said Cooney. 
His death this week leaves an enduring legacy that stretches from Cleveland to Notre Dame, from the Dominican Hepublic to Northern Ireland, and like a puzzle missing a piece, none will ever be quite the same. 

"He completely changed my life, ju~t from everything he endured and everything we experienced," said Cooney. "It's going to be a hard life without 
h.
Im. " 

Do you know about the RECTOR FUND? Student Government & the Office ofStudent Affairs do not want ANYONE to miss out on the "Notre Dame experience." • Ifyou or someone you know does not have money available to pay for things like football & basketball tickets, section dinners, Appalachia Seminar trips, hall dance tickets, concerts on campus, retreats, or other "quality oflife at ND" events, the RECTOR FUND can help. • To use this money, just talk to any Rector. He or she can use the RECTOR FUND to pay for events like these for students who are economically disadvantaged. • Names and all personal information about students who use this money are kept confidential. • Proceeds from "The Shirt" fundraiser supply money for the RECTOR FUND.  


ATION 

Tuesday, February 6, 2001 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Rescuers find quake survivors: 
Soldiers s<'arching for the bodies of earthquake victims rescued a brother and sister Monday who survived 10 days trapped on the second floor or their damaged building. living off cereal and water. The rescue came as demolition teams wt1re cloaring away the ruins of collapsed apartment buildings in Bhuj, and authorities turned to the task of finding shelter for 600,000 people left homeless by the .Jan. 26 quake. 
OfficiaJs approve wolf hunt: Despite tmvironmental protests. authorities on Monday approved a hunt for nine wolves in southern Norway -part of' a region where the animals had once been hunted to near extinction. Wolves have been protected in southern Scandinavia for more than 20 years and their numbers have increased to about 100. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Former employee kills co-workers: 
William Baker, 66, a former factory worker who got caught stealing from his employer, forced his way into the suburban Chicago engine plant Monday and opened lire one day before he was to rnport to prison. lie killed live people, including himself", and wounded !'our others. lie showed up at tho Navistar International plant with an arsenal of weapons and made his way through the build­ing with an AK-47 assault rifle. police said. 
Boy stabs, kills youth in theater: An l l-year-old boy was charged Monday in the stabbing death of another 11-year-old monrnnl,; after the two argued at a movie the­ater. The boy killed, fifth-grader Nestor l lcrrera. was on his lirst outing to the movies without a grown-up. lie was stabbed in the tlwatcr lobby Saturday night, minutes after he called to check in with his mother. and ho died later at a hospital. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Teen may get life sentence: A 17­ycar-old boy who admitted he beat his 13· yoar-old neighbor to death with a hammer will learn this week whether he \Viii spend tho rest of his life in prison. Josh Davies, of Andnrson. pleaded guilty Dec. 27 to murder• ing Jessica Lyons and attacking her stepsister while he was on home detention last May. In exchange for his guilty plea, prosecutors agreed not to seek the death penalty. Instead, prosecutors on Monday asked Madison Superior 1 .Judge Dennis Carroll to sentence him to life in prison without parole. 
Market Watch 2/5 

Dow 
10,965.85 +101.75 

/ONES 
Composite
Same: 
Volume:
~-1-i:
I, 2~ 210 
~ NIA 

AME)(: 929.44 +7.59 ::J 
Nasdaq: 2643.21 -17.29 
NYSE: 663.60 +3,38 
S&P 500: 1354.17 +4.70 
TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 

COMl'ANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CISCO sYSTEMS ({::SCO) -2.6S -0,•)4 34.56 INTEL CORI• (INTC) -2.KO -0.'JIJ J4.(,9 SUN MICllOSYSTEM (SUNW) -4.4K .I.JO 27.KH WOllllKOM INC {WCOM) ,r,_57 ,i..11 21.38 NASDAQ 100 SHA!( (QQQ) -0.IIH -0.0S 61.S0 
COMPILED PHOM TIIE OBSEHVEH WIRE SEHVICES page 5 
CUBA 

Cuba releases Czech criminals 
here in mid-January. ran into tlrn wee hours of Saturday.
Associated Press 

In the declaration, Pilip. 37, an ex· Tension between the two countries 
HAVANA finance minister. 13ubenik. 32, a for­ran high in recent weeks. with 
Cuba on Monday freed two promi­mer student leader. admitted to "the Castro calling the Czech embassy in nent Czech citizens held here for error of not knowing Cuban law and Havana "a cave of spies," which had more than three weeks. after they of violating Cuban law," Marco "spent 10 years spying." admitted breaking Cuban law. a Antonio Loustaunau, Mexico's com­If convicted on charges or acting human rights official said. mercial attache here. told reporters. against the island nation's security 
Immediately after being released, A copy of the document was not and inciting a rebellion, the Czechs Czech lawmaker Ivan Pilip and Jan made available to reporters. could have faced up to 20 years in Hubenik left the Foreign Ministry Diplomats from countries including prison. building in a car, saying they would Sweden, Chile, and Great Britain Cuban authorities remain furious hold a news conference later. were among others seen entering the about the Czech Republic's role last 
Chilean Congressman .Juan Pablo Foreign Ministry building for the year in introducing a United Nations Letelier, the human rights represen­meeting. resolution to condemn Luba for its tative of the Inter-Parliamentary Perez Hoque called the gathering human rights record. Poland, anoth­Union. confirmed that the men had just hours after Johnson said he was er former socialist ally. cosponsored been freed. optimistic the pair would be freed the resolution, which was latnr 
The announcement came after the soon. approved at a meeting in Geneva. pair admitted before a group of for­President Fidel Castro had earlier Johnson said he met three times eign diplomats called together by suggested that the case could be with Castro since arriving in Ilavana Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Hoque resolved if an apology were offered. last Wednesday, as well as with that they were unfamiliar with "Offer an apology to our country ... Cuban National Assembly President Cuban law, and thus violated Cuban there must be an excuse," Castro Ricardo Alarcon in hopes of helping 
law, when they met with dissidents said during a six-hour speech that free the pair. 

residence for a dinner of said he felt like "kind of a doning the Canada-first Associated Press precedent of his three
Maine lobster, pan-seared cousin coming to visit." 
"Whenever there are most recent predecessors.
WASIIINGTON bison loin and chocolate problems, we can talk, Bush sought to dispel
President Bush stepped hazelnut terrine. 
consult and try to find an sore feelings in Canadainto foreign policy for the The missile defense sys­
acceptable solution," about his plans.
first time Monday, meeting tem that Bush hopes to 
with Canada's prime min· build, and on which Chretien said. "I want to ''Canadians are long­standing friends of tho
ister, Jean Chretien. and Chretien has been silent. wish you the best luck in United States. Mexico is an
rebutting talk that he loomed large among issues your job. I know that you prefers Mexico to the between the two leaders. will be successful, and important country as when you need us. we'll be well," Bush said. "My pref­
United States' neighbor to as did drilling for oil in there. And we hope that erence is for friendly rela­tho north. "I've got a pref­Alaska's Arctic National when we need you. you tions in our hemisphere....
erence for friends," Bush Wildlife Refuge. Canada will be there." It's so important for the
said. has criticized that idea on The meeting was Bush's_ United States not to
Bush and Chretien, along environmental grounds. 
with aides. spent half an Calling Canada "our first face-to-face session neglect the hemisphere." Bush invited Chretien to
hour in the Oval Office closest friend to the White with a world leader since where they discussed !louse," Bush said he looks taking office Jan. 20. It his Texas ranch to fish for was arranged after Bush large-mouthed bass, and
among other things trade forward to developing a 
and a shared passion for friendship with Chretien. said he would visit Mexico. he said he hoped to do not Canada, in his first for­some fishing at Chretien's
bass fishing. They then The Canadian offered an 
eign trip this month, aban• Canadian rntreat as well.
moved to the president's appreciative smile, and 

page 6 The Ob;-erver . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 6, 2001 

SMC students vote to 
keep Keenan Revue 
By AMY GREENE 
News Writer 
The students want the Revue to stay. 

Results from Monday's bal­lot initiative attached to the student body elections show that 62.2 percent of the stu­dent body approves of the Keenan Revue on campus, and would like it to stay. In addition. 14.6 percent of stu­dents who had not seen the Revue said they believe it should stay, and only 2.3 per­cent of stu­dents who 
that involves both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame com­munities. It's funny and enter­taining and is put on by tal­ented, young men who put forth a lot of effort and time to provide the community with hilarious, free entertainment," said sophomore Allyson Palombaro, who voted in favor of the Revue. 
Sophomore Liz Bailey also voted in favor of the Revue. 
"The Keenan Revue is one of the few events on Saint 1\Iary's campus that actually draws people. I believe that it should remain on campus and 
have seen the people
"I believe it should

Revue believe should stop
remain on campus and

it should not being so be held on people should stop being uptight and campus. offended by
so uptight and offended

2.5 percent a simple who have not by a simplejoke." joke." seen the Student Revue do not body presi­
Liz Bailey

want it on dent Crissie
sophomore

4.5 Renner
campus. percent of the students polled had seen the Revue and had no opinion on the Revue's location, and 9.8% of the stu­dents who participated have not seen the Keenan Revue and have no opinion of its location. 
Students were asked to answer two questions on the Keenan initiative on the bal­lot: Have you ever attended a Keenan Revue performance, and do you feel that the per­formance of the Keenan Revue should remain on Saint Mary's campus? 
The survey showed that the majority of the student body is in favor of the Keenan Revue remaining at Saint Mary's. 
expected  
most  stu­ 
dents to  be in favor of the  
Revue.  

"The results didn't surprise me at all," said Renner. "We tabled the issue and survey results, however, until next week." 
The survey will be used pri­marily as a guide for the Board of Governance to gauge the students' opinions. 
"The initiative was not a vote for the Keenan Revue," said elections commissioner Stephanie Pace. "It will be used for research in evaluat­ing the Revue and the stu­dents' opinions," said Pace. 
The Board of Governance will discuss the survey results 
Morel discusses Chilean culture 
By ERIN BRADY News Writer 
Social solidarity is the key to bringing the Chilean Catholic Church together, said Father Felipe Morel during his lecture on Monday night. Morel spoke 
to a small group in the La Fortune student center about the efforts being made to estab­lish a "bridge between the dif­ferent cultures" in Chile by the brothers of HoJy Cross. 
Morel is one of 22 priests of 
Holy Cross working to help build this bridge. !Ioly Cross operates two schools. three parishes and two orphanages in and around the San Tiago area. The schools provide edu­cation to both upper-and lower-class children in Chile in 
schools s e r v e 
o v e r
"The gap between the 

t h r e e
rich and the poor is very 

thousand 
strong." students, while the orphan­
Father Felipe Morel 

ages arc working in Chile to bridge the home to culture gap over one hundred children. Huge-economic and political 
Election 
continued from page 1 
who voted," she said. 
Although the abroad stu­dent voter turnout was low, Nagle said the inclusion of these stu­
dents will continue in the future. 
"A lot of students abroad d o n ' t h a v e 


access to Nagle 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
an effort to "strive to build the youth movement to bring the people together." 
"The gap between the rich and poor is very strong . . . wc teach respecting our differ­ences but respecting our com­munity, that we are the same church," said Morel. The 
struggles have plagued Chile. a country firmly rooted in reli­gion with a population that is over seventy percent Catholic. The church has adapted many times with the country's chang­ing society and has kept the sense of pride among the 
e-mail easily," said Nagle. "This year the ballot was done by e-mail, but the process may change in the future to make it easier for 
the  abroad  students  to  
vote."  
Though  there  was  an  

overall lack of interest in the elec­tion as reflected in the percent­age of students w h o chose to partic­ipate,

Chilean people and Christianity. 
Morel also emphasized the importance of the youth of Chile in helping to create social solidarity. 
"The Church is very influen­tial with working with young people. The Church is one of the only events that brings young together," said Morel. 
The Catholic Church is also influential on the Chilean soci­ety as a whole. Morel noted that church-related news appears at least four or five times a day. The church also played a key role in working with the government to abolish the death penalty. a tremen­dous accomplishment for the country. 
Morel's speech is part of' the Blessing Unto Others campaign, an effort to promote making a difference in the lives of others among Notre Dame students. The next speech will be heid Wednesday night at 8 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater in La Fortune. The topic is entitled "Life in llogares." 
Nagle and Matha remain excited and eager for their term to begin. 
"We're already planning informational meetings for the various Board of Governance positions," said Nagle. 
"At the meetings students will become better educated about student government and their position. We'll be taking applications and interviewing for our new Board of Governance in April and show students what level we can take stu­dent government to." 
Nagle and Matha's term will begin on April 1. 

"The Keenan Revue is some­and possibly vote on the thing fun to do on campus Revue's future Monday. 

Notre uaine College 0en1ocrats 
ffl@@Mm~ ~rnfl~llia 
•
7pm1n 182 Nieuwland Hall 
F R £ f, Pizza & Drinks 


THE SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT INTERNSHIP 
• 
Devote 8 weeks to the service of those in need 

• 
Choose from 180 sites across the United States 

• 
Earn 3 theology credits (with possible crosslists) 


• 
Receive a $1900 tuition scholarship with the option for an additional $1000 Americorps Scholarship 

• 
Establish valuable contacts with Notre Dame Alumni 



LAST INFORMATIONAL MEETING WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7th at 6:00 PM At the Center for Social Concerns 
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS: FEBRUARY 9, 200 1 
Tuesday, February 6, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Members discuss social space 
ally agreed on what issues a 

By JASON McFARLEY 
new CLC taskforcc could effec­A.<sistanc News Editor 
tively address. 

Bill Kirk suggested a task­On the heels of' a contentious force to head up social space meeting that called in lo q ues• concerns. Kirk said the tion the, group's purpose. the Alumni-Senior Club in particu-
Campus Life  lar could be  
Council (CLCJ  a  hub  for  
on Monday looked to fur­ther its work  "We need to look into a more creative use of  students. " T h e building's  
by forming a  University social space."  just sitting  
new  task  there,  not  
force. Throughout  Bill Kirk  getting the greatest use  
the  30­ assistant vice president for  it  could,"  
minutc meet­ residence life  said  Kirk,  

ing, members were coopcr­a live with each other and focused on two areas of concern that may 
benefit from CLC task force work: University social space and freedom of speech. The council, however, was barred from forming a new task force 
because it was one member short of lhe 12 representatives needed to achieve a quorum. 
The collaboration and over­all good humor evident on Monday was in contrast to the CLC's Jan. 22 meeting, where membnrs discussed the possi­bility of structural changes for more than 75 minutes. This lengthy meeting featured no less than two tense exchanges bntwcen three council mem­bers before talks were abrupt­ly haltod. 
On Monday, members gener­
assistant 
vice presi­dent. for residence life. "We need to look into a more cre­ative use of University social space." 
Welsh Hall rectrcss Sister Adrienne Piennetto said she has seen firsthand a problem with the current sociJJ.I space situation. Residence halls can't accommodate large dances or student gatherings. she said. 
"I always hear from the girls in my hall that what they want is a place to dance," Piennette said. 
The CLC also considered forming a taskforce for free­dom of speech concerns at the University. 
English professor Stuart Greene said recent controver­sy surrounding the Women's Resource Center and The Observer may prompt con­cerns about free speech. 

In April 1998, the University placed the WRC on probation following sanctions for distrib­uting information on abortion. That fall. the University banned advertisements from the Gav and Lesbian Alumni of Notre bame and Saint Mary's in The Observer. 
"We want to be certain that there are things in [the stu­dent handbook! du Lac that make sure organizations can have certain types of informa­tion and if they are placed on probation, that they have due process." Greene said of the WRC which has since been taken off probation. 
Dillon llall senator Brendan Dowdall urged members inter­ested in the free speech issue to work with him on a propos­al on the subject. Dowdall, member of the Coalition for Free Speech, is drafting a pro­posal that the group will pre­sent to the Office of Student Affairs this month. The draft will highlight areas of free speech in which the coalition believes the University could improve. 
In other CLC news: 
. Student body president Brian O'Donoghue said a f'orum on teaching and tenure is scheduled for Wednesday, Feb. 21 at 4 p.m. The forum will be open to Notre Dame students, faculty and staff members. 
The Faces Of Holy Cross 

~'r. Theodore M. Heslmrgh, C.S.(: 

Awarded Congressional Gold Medal July 131 2000 
"I want nothing else, have never wanted anything else, have never been anything else but a priest." 
ANSWER ~ THECALL W 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Visit The Ob.server Online. http://observer.nd.edu 
Class of '02 sponsors auction for leukemia 
. Student leaders gather to raise awareness 
By ALYSON TOMME 
News Writer 
Leukemia has taken the lives of several members of the Notre Dame family. Miranda Thomas, Brianne Clary and, most recently. Conor Murphy were lost to the disease. 
In their memory, the Class of 2002 is sponsoring 

Bid Bash "It is a great event for 
the auction.
2001, an 

a great cause. " Organizer
auction to 
K a t e
promote 
McCarthy

leukemia Grant Irons 
notes that 

awareness. football player
Tho junior class is hosting the celebrity auction from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. tonight in LaFortune Ballroom. 
Many students, athletes and faculty will participate, including University presi­dent emeritus Father Theodore J-lesburgh, Student Body President Brian O'Donoghue and Vice­President Brooke Norton, Grant Irons, Liz Grow and Tony Weaver. The members of the various athletic teams will be auctioned as a group. as will the student leaders. 
"It is a great event. for a great cause," said Irons, who
/"------------,
49¢g~~~s
single-sided on 8.5" x 11" 28 lb. paper. 
You'll be amazed by the quality. 
(C)py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
On the Campus of the University of Noire Dame 
Call 631-COPY 
FREE Pick-Up & Delivery 
See store for details. Coupon required. Hurry• expires 2/14/01. 
\.N:v~d.:it:a:o~e::if::d~:n/ 

recognized the event as an "opportunity to raise money to improve others' lives." 
The auction allows stu­dents and faculty to bid on various University athletes and notables for an evening of dinner at Alumni Senior Club and admission to the women's basketball game against Miami on Feb. 20. Bidding starts at. $25, and up to three students can bid together for a chance with their favorite campus fig­ures. Admission lo the event is free, but all winners must pay at 
with the 
energetic 

people involved, people should respond positively. 
In light of the University's recent losses to leukemia, the Junior Class Council altered the auction idea from a fundraising plan for t.he junior class to a fundraiser for leukemia. All proceeds raised during the auction will be donated lo the Leukemia Society. 
Junior Class President Jonathan Jorissen, an orga­nizer and participant, also promises a lot ol' l'un 1.1.nd encourages the student body to participate. 
One environment. One simple way to care for it. 

Earth Share 
www.car1h1,;harc.org 


It's that time again .... 
The Graphics department needs people. 
You could be one of them. If you don't 
mind working two to three on the ~ights 
YOU pick, and pick up some expenence 
in the mean time then you are the 
perfect candidate. It's a first come first 
serve deal so be quick. 
Please send an email to jcuellar@nd.edu 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 6, 2001 
Wolllen 
continued from page I 
ator for the past year. McCord said she hopes women's issues becomes a central focus of the Becker/Norton administration if they are elected. 
"I think it will be an empow­ering position," McCord said. "I am very passionate about working on women's issues. I know being the first woman student body president. 


"I think it will be a challenge to be the first woman student body president," Norton said. "There is more pressure to show the student body that a female could do the job. I would hope people would vote for me because of who I am and it wouldn't be about the fact I am female." 
Smith agreed, saying she understand the impact the first woman president would have, but also said she thinks any student body president would face challenges. 
"I think leadership is at the center of any elected position. Challenges will come up for any person who is student body president, not just a woman," Smith said. 
Because fifty percent of the student body at Notre Dame is women, all the female candi­dates said it is important for women to be involved in stu­dent government, so women's issues are brought to the fore­front. 
"I think we could better address women's issues because we live with 200 girls," said Gottieb. "It's not that a woman student body president will necessarily bring a distinct view point, but we feel we can represent the student body as well as anyone else." 
Henisey said she hopes peo­ple vote for the Zeidler/Henisey ticket because of issues, not because of gender. 
"I think voting goes both ways -people vote for a girl simply because she's a girl, and vote against a girl simply because she's a girl," Henisey said. "I think Notre Dame is ready for women in student government, but I hope it doesn't effect students' voting. I wouldn't want people to vote for a candidate simply because she is a female." 
"I think it will be a

Ryan will listen especially to the ideas I challenge to be the first there are women's
have, and I feel woman student body

I will listen to issues that
president."

both women should be and men on addressed, campus." Brooke Norton and if a 
Vice presi­woman
student body

dential candi­were in an
presidential candidate

date Allison authorita­
whether you are for it or against it," said Fetterman. "Because we live with women, we hear theh· concerns. We are simply in Close proximity to the issues." 
All the female candidates agree women in student gov­ernment will help bring women's issues to the forefront of student<;' minds. 
"I don't think just women should get involved in student government," McCord said. "But for females 
Henisey, who is running with Holt Zeidler, also said she has not experienced any discrimi­nation in student government, and women should take initia­tive to lead. 
"I think everyone at Notre Dame has their own experi­ence," Henisey said. "I think females play a critical role and they should represented in the classroom, on the athletic field and in student government." 
Presidential candidate Maureen Gottieb and vice pres­idential candidate Victoria Fetterman said they hope vot­ers will not focus on the fact they are both women, but rather that they have a strong platform and are qualified to do the job. 
"A woman president is even­tually going to happen, 

tive posi­
tion, she could help implement change both in creating better pro­grams and publicizing pro­grams that already exist." 
Smith said she hopes to change the Women's Resource Center into an Office of Women's Affairs, where women on campus would feel comfortable to go and discuss issues of concern. 
"Certainly there are issues a woman leader can bring a voice to," Smith said. "A female leader will call student atten­tion to issues like rape on cam­pus and what happens when a girl gets pregnant." 
Norton said she understands the time commitment and responsibility of being student body president, and she also recognizes the challenge of 
ERIC BIBB 
i------blues guiltirfsf 
Tuesday, februijry 6, ZOO I 
7:30 P.M. in the little Theatre 
S'1•l M"Y' Coll•i•o
,~~(.R.. 
~HOnr•DAMI£, Ill 

for ticket information contact Z8' ' 6 z6
the )~int H~ry\ Box Office at 4-4 


Attention Sophomores Interested in Business 
Here's an opportunity for you to learn about the University's accounting system while gaining valuable experience as Assistant Student Union Treasurer. 
As an Assistant Treasurer you will: 
•Be 
responsible for managing, consulting, and maintaining various student accounts 

•Serve 
as financial liaison for The Shirt Project ($200,000+ 


revenue operation) or for the Student businesses (Adworks, Irish Gardens) 
•Sit on the Financial Management Board as a nonvoting member 
This commitment requires approximately 5-6 hours per week and further it is a possible two-year commitment, as one assistant shall take over the role of Student Union Treasurer the following 
year. 
Applications are now available outside the Treasurer's Office 
(3rd floor Lafortune, in the CRC) Applications are due no later than 5pm Fridat, February 9th Interviews witl be held Monday, February 12t (Please sign up for an interview upon submitting your application) 
Questions? Contact Jennifer Wolfe atjwolfe@nd.edu or the Office of the Treasurer at 631-4557 
IT'S ONLY A SILENT KILLER TO THOSE WHO REFUSE TO LISTEN ¦ 

You don't have to let high blood pressure take you by surprise. Ask your doctor to check it and help you keep it in check to reduce your risk of heart attack and stroke. Learn more at 
call 1-800-AHA-USA1, 

American Heart AA"' 
Association.V 
· fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 

is space provided as a public service. C 11199, America,, Heart Association 

Tuesday, February 6, 2001 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Clintons work with curator to sort out gift controversy 
Auoci:u~d Preu  New York, saicl in Hochcstor. N. Y. "That's what the perma­ Asked about the gifts in ques­tion, Bush said: "It's important  Clintons and. of course, we want their wishes to be hon­ a  In Boca Halon, Fla., to make $100,000 appearance at a  
WASIIINGTON Bill and llillary Hodham Clinton said Monday they will givn back any gifts they took from the White House if it turns out  nent record of the White House showed.... But if there is a dif­ferent intent, we will certainly honor the intention of the donor." The Clintons said every item they accept­ for all of the facts to be laid out on the table." He expressed confidence the Clintons "will make the right decision." The Washington Post quoted two donors Monday as  ored." The day before they left the White I-louse, the Clintons released a list of $190,000 in gifts they chose to take with them, many of which they  Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. conference, Clinton's lim­ousine drove past about a dozen Hepublican demonstra­tors carrying signs that read "Everything Still for Sale" and "Clinton Bonds Lack Principln."  
ed was identified by the w h i t C  saying the furnishings they gave were intend­ "All ofthese items were considered gifts to us. That's what the  could their new i  use for two homes n  Some chanted: "llide the women and silverware, Bill Clinton's in town." and "Bill Clinton go home."  
llouse gift office as a present to  ed for the White House, not the  permanent record ofthe White House showed."  Washington and in Chappaq ua,  Clinton upset even some fol­low Democrats when he par­doned fugitive financier Marc  
them. They  Clintons.  N.Y.  Hich,  a  commodities trader  
office is Clinton working wilh the Clintons to figure out the inlentions of the people who donated the gifts, President Bush's spokesman Ari Fleischer said. Gifls worth a total of more than $23,000 -including two sof'as. rattan chairs. an otloman. an easy chair and a kitclrnn table -were in ques­lion. "All ol' these items were con­sidered gifls Lo us," Mrs. Clinton. now a senator from  Rodham Clinton said none of the · gifts they took was on a curator's list of offi­cial While Ilouse property. "Gifts did not leave the White Ilousc without the approval of the White !louse usher's and curator's offices," the Clintons said in a statement addressing the latest sour note to follow them out of' ol1ice. "Of course, if the White llouse now determines that a cataloging error occurred ... any Hem in question will be returned," they said.  They were Hillary Rodham Clinton But after S t e v e criticismformer first ladyMittman of erupted. they New York, offered to whose dona-pay $86,000 tion was valued at $19,900; for close to half the gifts. and Joy Ficks of Cincinnati. Now it's the other half at who gave $3,650 worth. issue. Some items in this group "Everyone involved, including were on a National Park the White House curator, Service list of donations l'or the believed that each item was a 1993 While House redecora­gift to the Clintons." said Jim tion project. Kennedy. speaking for the for­The gift Oap is one or several mer president and his wife. problems dogging Clinton's "Now you have a couple ol' first days as an ex-president people saying that they didn't and his wife's first weeks as a intend for them to go to the senator.  who fled to Switzerland and remained there after he was charged with 51 counts of tax evasion and fraud. On Friday, Clinton defended the decision on Hich, saying; "On the merits. I don't think it was a wrong decision." Although it is irreversible, the pardon is the subject of a con­gressional investigation. Clinton also arranged to rent a Manhattan office that would have cost taxpayers $600,000­plus a year but said later his foundation would pay hall' the cost.  


Getting tickets has never been this 
easy.* 
*without paying scalper fees. 

Point. Click. Get Tickets. 
It really is that easy. Free, too. 
OBSERVER 
online classifieds 
http://www.nd.edu/-observer 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
page 10 BSERVER Tuesday, February 6, 2001 
Sorting out the real 'divas' 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sou1h Dining Hill, Nacre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Norec:n Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SroRn EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAR\"S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: El.izaberh Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROllER: Bob Woods GR/\PHICS EDITOR; Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGlilUGliNERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX..... ...... ······ ..... . ......... 631-6927 ADVUlTISING....................................631-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIU........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME............. .......631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.................................,......631-5313 NEWS..........................................................63I-5323 
observer,obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT........................................ ,., ......631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR¥'s...........................................,631-4324 
observer.smc. I@nd.edu 
PHOT0................................ , ........ , ...... ,, ••,, ..631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:llobmver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-co-the 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ediwrial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither iru1titurion. The Observer reserves the right-to refuse advertisements based on content.· 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners w the Editor must be signed and must include contact informarion. 
Quertiom regarding Obrerverpolicies rhould be dir«t­,d to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 



DILBERT 

e
THE FEATURE CREEP 
0 
0 ~ 
.. 
® 
i ~ 
:i, 
• 0
.. 
E 
0 
u 
'I:'. 
.8 
"C 
3 
i 

I watch a lot of VHl. In fact, if the cable company that Saint Mary's College uses carried VHl, I would absolutely positively never leave my room. I'm sorry Miss Jackson, but I would nevuh-evuh turn 

that station off. I am for real on that. 
What can I say? I'm addicted to "Behind the Music" and "Pop-Up Video." 
Where else can you get such quality bits like the fact that Debbie Harry, lead singer of the group Blondie, with the indecipherable yet treasured song, "Heart of Glass." bleached her hair so many times during 
Molly Strzelecki 
Growing Up to 
Be a Kid 
Blondie's heyday that it later fell out com­pletely? 
But I digress. 

I've noticed one thing. though, predom­inantly through VH1. but emphasized, seemingly, by the rest of the music indus­try. Frankly, this "thing" is beginning to scare me. It is everywhere, in everything, It is the flippant and flagrant use of the term "diva." 
"Diva," defined by my good friend Oxford, means, "an operatic prima donna," and was originally linked with those voluptuous opera singers sporting Viking horns and long twisted braids from the days of yore. These days, how­ever, "diva" is easily thrown uncon­cernedly upon any female singer who has been able to sustain a career of at least two years, sell a ridiculous amount of albums (regardless of good or bad quali­ty) and have at least five outrageous demands for when they tour and per­form. In essence, diva these days is any­one who can sell and be a bitch. 
Well. I guess I've found my calling. Though I adore VHl, I have serious issues with the women they proclaim as "divas." For example, Mariah Carey. I understand that she has a strong voice, demands a lot and an octave range that only dogs can hear, and I respect that. 
"divas-in-training." You ~J~ either are a diva. or you are , '\ not. You either deserve "respect" or you do not. It is _1/_
(
not something you train for. This is not the Olympics for cripe's sake. 
For every misclaimed diva out there. there is yet another woman out there who would never dream of taking on or giving herself such a highfalutin' title. So think about that. Think about the women who are divas in every which way but down, How about Marie Curie? She dis­covered radium and polonium. I don't really know what those two elements do, but I passed Chemistry 101 and enough chemistry to say that that was a huge dis­covery and those are two giant elements on the periodic table. I think, then, that ~.. ) Think carefully next time ~; you or anyone you know \~..J carelessly bandies about the~J. term "diva." Take into account 

-~1·1 
, all aspects of the nominated woman. Is she a strong character? 
Does she get her way? Do your own personal divas' accomplishments span a broad array of categories? Here's the deciding factor: Ifshe has big hair or says "aboot" instead of "about" on a regular basis ... she's out. 
Molly Strzelecki is a senior writing major at Saint Mary's College. She can be e-mailed at strz7359@saintmarys.edu. Her column appears every other Tuesday, 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer, 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Aiding missions in Chile 
It gives me great joy to write this letter and thank Brian puzzle over why a bunch of Americans would care about them. O'Donoghue and Drew Gawrych, along with all in Student They are living witnesses to Mother Theresa's admonition that Government for their support of the Hogares San Jose and we must protect innocent life for "we can never have too many Santa Cruz in Chile, Their efforts to raise our awareness ofthis children. That's like saying there are too many flowers." most worthy apostolate of the Congregation of Holy Cross is Christ and the Church instruct us to give alms. Almsgiving is commendable. not just a handout, rather it is an act of "caritas" and a mortifi­
After having spent over a month living at the orphanage San cation that helps lead us to holiness. We are blessed with much Jose in Talagante, I know first hand the great work that goes here at ND and I encourage, better, I challenge you to give up a on there. I also know how much the Hagar struggles to main­Thursday night at Heartland or Friday at Movies 14 and offer tain and improve its services. Father Don, Brother Matteo. and that money to the Hogares San Jose and Santa Cruz. It will do Brother Donald work tirelessly, and I know that this opportuni­your soul some good, ty for us to help them will be greatly appreciated. Bravo Odie and Student Government for this most most 
I also know how much the kids appreciate having a special blessed opportunity. Our Lady is certainly proud. connection to the "gringos" at Notre Dame. For them to know that we have made an effort to care about them, even if it is Stephen R. Sanchez just through a small donation of money or ND gear, is a special semor treat. I can already picture the smiles on their faces as they February I, 200.1 

I'D HAVE TO WORK NIGHT AND DAY FOR A MONTH! MY HEALTH WOULD DE.CLINE AND I'D l"\155 ALL l"\Y 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There can't be any large-scale revolution . until there's a personal revolution. on an individual level. It's got to happen inside first. " 
Jim Morrison musician . 


VIEWPOINT
I 

O
THE 
Tuesday, February 6, 200 I BSERVER page 11 
Meeting a martyr 
I met a martyr while in Africa this three days, Susan and I walked a mag­summer. I le is the reason I still believe, nificent country alongside a remarkable !'or the culture shock I experienced trav­guide. It was like being in a private eling abroad was profoundly shattering. study group with Merlin. Magic abound­Seeing the cxlrcmcs of human existence ed. We received from our time with him lhal the Kenyans more than words can convey.
Brittany

know on a daily Father John was a man who spoke 
basis, I almost lost Morehouse openly about the corruption of the 
my faith. Prccislily Kenyan government. He was once 
when I questioned placed in charge of a refugee camp in
It's All About 

how God figures in the late 1990s. when thousands of
Anthropology

a world of such natives were chased from their homes drastic in the vast expanse ofland in the Trans dichotomies, I met Father John Kaiser. I Mara District. There, he witnessed the believe he is a yet-to-be canonized saint. tragedies of what the government I tell this story with reverence for the claimed to be "ethnic clashes." father man and his mission. John said it was actually "ethnic cleans­
Father John Kaiser, an American ing." priest, spent his last 36 years working A little over a year ago, the World as a Mill l lill Missionary pastor in Bank and the IMF advised the Kenyan Kenya. We first heard of Father John government that to receive more fund­when Susan Tilton, fellow journeyman, ing, it must hold court hearings to get to and I spoke of our desire to go on a the bottom of the displaced. Though he safari. We were told of the well-known, was a key witness in this trial, he sat in beloved American priest who lived the courtroom for weeks as his name alone in the largest game park in began at the top of the witness list ­Kenya. There in the Trans Mara District then fell, quite mysteriously, to the bot­beyond the Hift Valley, Father John was tom, before day's end. Stubbornly, he pastor to many Massai. They described kept coming back. Finally -begrudg­him as a "typical American" -stub­ingly -he was called to testify. The born. outspoken. They said he was the examiner asked Father John if he knew one we wanted to take us on safari. His who was responsible for the displace­safaris were the best. ment. Father-John answered loudly: 
Knowing Father John did not have "Daniel arap Moi." Everyone gasped to easy access to mail. and with hear him place the blame squarely lime running out, we were on Kenya's President. losing hope of connecting. Father John also was the So, when we heard he was first person to actively help in town, we raced three young girls accusing through dusty dirt paths the man next in line for lined by market stands the presidency, Julius ole and mothers selling Sunkuli, of rape. In short, grnen oranges, past he was not a political the village children ally ofKenyan govern­shouting affection­ment officials. He would ately, "Mzungo, how not allow himself to be arc you?" We found too frightened to speak him in the Mill Hill the truth. He thought Ilouse. both God and his 
Father John's American identity were extraordinary spon­in his favor. There were, taneity might be mis­however, dire conse­understood at first as quences to his steadfast somewhat irrational. truthfulness. During our llindsight tells me now stay at his little house, he that Father John instinc­had us hang blankets across tually trusted the course of the windows to catch rocks fate, making his easy flexibil­that might be hurled through. ity the means by which God's He parked "The Helicopter" in his plans were carried through. We locked garage, knowing a bomb introduced ourselves. He mentioned his might be planted in its engine. He American niece, Camille. our age and talked of feeling his enemies lurking visiting him during the same two-month close by, ready to pounce at any oppor­period. Ile suggested that the best way tunity. for us to go on safari was to travel home And, just three weeks before he was with him, right then and there. the victim of a political murder, Father 
The four-hour ride to father John's John told the three of us the history, house was so memorable, I think of it politics, greed, deliberate malevolence daily. As we bounced along the rough and corruption that beat down upon the paths in the back of his faded white Kenyan people he loved so dearly. He pick-up truck. nicknamed "The was as eager to talk as we were to lis­Ilelicopter" by the natives, Father John ten, rushing to get it all out. He begged lold us his stories. Something inside me us: Please. go back to America. Write to urged: Write down everything he is say­your congressional representatives. Tell ing. As I scribbled furiously in my jour­everyone to do the same. Beg them to nal, I tried to copy his words verbatim. stop feeding the killing hands of the cor­I!is words were steeped with impor­ruption. Help instead those poor suffer­tance. At the time I thought proudly of ing citizens who have been the target of how my journalism training was paying those who would keep them uneducat­ofT. I laugh now; the feeling I had was f\d, hungry and powerless. not the reporter in me at a.II. No. l was Visit the Father John Kaiser Web site, simply playing out my particular role as ( www.frontier.ne1/-johnnyd!kaiser/), for one of Father John's last three messen­additional news releases. Please: Study, gers. learn and then write some letters. His 
Perhaps another reason for my l'rantic work must continue. nole taking was the fact that I honestly could not believe my ears. The piercing Brittany Morehouse is a majoring in truths and sobering lessons were amaz­American studies and anthropology and ing. It was like ho was spitting out to us minoring in African studies. You can everything of political and social impor­reach Brittany through e-mail at tance. In turn, I uncharacteristically Morehouse.1@nd.edu. probed someone I had just met with The views expressed in. this column deep, philosophical questions. are those ofthe author and not neces­
I count my blessings that, for the next sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Building a tradition 
When one thinks about this and how significant it is to all Notre Dame fans and to the history of Notre Dame athletics, I think it is fair to say that this long, hard climb to the top of the women's basketball world is similar to what Knute Rockne did for Notre Dame football 80 years ago. Rockne took a group of young men to a little-known Catholic school in Indiana from virtual obscurity to the top of college football world and helped the University gain an identity that transformed the University in the eyes of the observers around the country. In an era before professional football, college football was the only game in town and "The Fighting Irish" were at the top of the pile and as a result we gained thousands of "subway alumni" who followed our progress in athletics and academics. 
In a similar vein, women's basketball is a relatively new sport with intercollegiate competition since the early 1970s and Notre Dame only fielding a team since 1977. Prior to MuITet's arrival before the 1988 season we had a respectable program, but clearly one that was not prominent and had not been to an NCAA tournament. The McGraw era which began in 1988 has produced a record in the subsequent 13 and a half years of 303-115 for a winning percentage of .725. More important than the win­loss record is the national recognition that has followed from being in the NCAA tourna­ment for the first time in 1992, again in 1994 and then every year since the 1995-1996 season including being in the Final Four in 1997. 
While it is not known how the rest of this season will evolve, the important fact is that Coach McGraw and her wonderful band of Fighting Irish Ladies have climbed the moun­tain in women's basketball and taken all of us to the top with them. It is clearly an expe­rience that none of us will, or should ever forget -it is now part of the Notre Dame lore, similar to the accomplishments of Knute Rockne and the Four Horseman. Notre Dame alumni, subway alumni and basketball fans throughout the land will not forget that Notre Dame has clearly joined the elite set of outstanding women's basketball teams. Just as we attribute the beginning ofour women's national basketball reputation to our female Knute Rockne. better known as MulTet McGraw. 
One final point -the Notre Dame administration and more significantly the athletic administration (i.e. Kevin White), should be congratulated for the recognizing early in the season all the contributions made by Coach McGraw and giving her a five year con­tract as an indication of the University's support and appreciation. It is notable that Notre Dame provided this significant recognition of the terrific program that she has steadily built prior to the recent success. 
Frank K. Reilly 
Bernard J. Hank 
Professors of Finance 
January 31, 200 I 

Worshipping with wheat 
This article is in response to Monday's Orders is somewhat foreign to us. Inside Column entitled, "All Praise Nevertheless, we continue to use oil. To Wheat." do otherwise would be to deny the histori­
I appreciate Mr. Connolly's concern that cal rootedness of our faith, upon which in requiring the use ofwheat as the mat­the sacraments depend. ter of the Holy Eucharist. the Catholic Moreover, Catholics believe that it was Church has missed the point of the sacra­Jesus himself who instituted the sacra­ment. There is, however, one point that I ments, at least in their essential features. would like to make. The Catholic religion When he instituted the sacrament of the is at i~ core a religion of particularities. Eucharist, he used wheat bread and grape The most important of these is that the wine. There are of course certain further Son of God took on human nature and decisions that the Church can and does thus entered human history, in a particu­make on its own authority, such as lar time and place. Jesus Christ's teaching whether to use leavened or unleavened and example are meant for all women bread. But because the Church dotis not and men. but he lived and taught in the presume to know exactly why Jesus did highly particular geographical and cultur­things the way he did, and because it al setting of early first-century Palestine. must respect his choice, it cannot change 
A sacrament is a divine reality the basics of the sacrament. Luckily for expressed in and in fact brought about by, Jenny Richardson. however, the p,L5tors of human signs. Moreover, the symbols and the Church will surely allow her to receive metaphors available to individuals for the whole Christ, body, blood, soul and self-expression vary from culture to cul­divinity, under the appearance of wine' ­ture. That is why the symbolism used in as even infants do in the eastern church­the sacraments reflects the time and cul­es. ture ofJesus, which diITor in many ways from our own. For example, we now use Christopher Mirus oil neither to anoint our rulers nor to con­graduate student dition our athletes, so that the symbolism Sourh Bend, IN of the anointing in Confirmation and Holy F~bruary 5, 200 I 
. . 


page 12 Tuesday, February 6, 2001 
ALBUM REVIEW 
The Places' Autopilot flies itself into critical acclaim 
By MAUREEN SMITHE Scene Music Critic 
With her hushed vocals and thoughtful lyrics, Amy Annelle, lead singer of The Places, shines on the band's first release, The Auiopiloi Knows You Best. In one of the best independent releases of last year. Annelle and her band serve up music reminiscent of no one else, but surely capable of' influencing those who come after them. 

In a style reflecting the lush land­scape of their Portland, Ore. home, The Places plant seeds of thougbi in the listener's mind with this placidly beautiful collection of songs. The sim­plicity of the Northwest nature that surrounds them is apparent the first time through the album, but the many complexities the album tackles head on don't hide for long. 
Most of the songs have the quality of a cool lullaby, capable of keeping you up at night pondering the many themes presented in the album's 11 
tracks. You wouldn't want to go to bed when you could be listening to The Places. 
T h e 
a I b u m opens on a strong uote with "Own Your Own Home," in w h i C h AQnelle 
urges the listener to "Hold out for more/ Something bigger than you or m el Pl a cc where we can r e·s t our weary heap of bones." From her first fragile note in this song through the end of the album, Annelle timidly exposes her many hopes and experi­ences. 
The album's second track. "Lazy Days and Castaways," is one of the most inspiring pieces, not necessarily because of the lyrics ("Cast your shad­ow long halfway into his arms and you know you don't belong here"), but rather because of the utterly beautiful backup instruments, including a true accordion and a viola. The track proves the band's efficiency aud intri­cacy at the same time. 
On "Mission Impossible" the band successfully hooks the listener. Like the sougs before and after it, it is a very strong piece, both lyrically and musically, and when compared to the more sterile lyrics found in today's mainstream bands, the lyrics on this track read like a piece of modem art. "A see through soaring lucid true girl writing stories on a floating blue world." Add in a catchy background beat, and it makes for a very addictive song. 

The band ups the tempo a bit with "Mouth to Mouth." a song capable of becoming one of the album's big sin­gles. The drums. guitar, bass and key­board all join with Annelle's voice to create a solid song that is hard to get out of your head -but that doesn't matter because you don't want it to leave. 
"Love Song for a Comet," "No Mystery" and "Will Try" share a simi­lar airy quality, making it easy to get lost in the beauty of Annellc's voice 
and lyrics, only to realize she  never  
leads you astray.  
Samples from  a  1950s  era  radio  

documentary run throughout the album, introducing an idyllic element of a forgotten past. It seems as though the band is contrasting the simplicity or that past with the complexities of the present. The sampling creates a powerful sense of cohesion that runs throughout the album. 
The release is a beautiful tribute to what music should be, and Annelle's artful lyrics are what really bring the album into focus. The infinite wisdom found in every song makes Annelle the big sister everyone would want. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Lineup changes have little effect on Puppets' sound 
By JOE REISING Scene Music Critic 
The Meat Puppets seem to belong to another genera~ 
.tion of rock 'n' roll bands -a time when bands worked hard for years. finally lit up in a huge bright flame of star-· dom then burned out from overdoses or violent internal conflicts. Yet with its latest release, Golden Lies, the Puppets push beyond this process, overcoming a volatile fall from fame to churn out yet another testament to the band's resilience. 
Consisting of brothers Curt and Cris Kirkwood and drummer Derrick Bostrom, the band formed in the early '80s in Arizona and had three critically acclaimed albums before breaking up in the early nineties. The Puppets quickly reformed and reached its commercial peak after opening Nirvana's In Utero tour in 1993. The band also helped play three covers of songs off of its 1984 album Meat Puppets II on Nirvana's Unplugged in New York album. 
This increased recognition helped 1994's Too High to Die go gold and the single "Backwater" almost broke into the top 40. However, success soon bred self destruction for Cris Kirkwood who began heavily abusing cocaine and heroin during a tour with the Stone Temple Pilots. 
1995's No Joke album went nowhere, in part because the record company failed to market it once they found out about Cris's drug problems. Cris kept getting worse, and while never officially kicked out of the band, he essentially stopped playing with the 
Puppets after 1995 as his addictions con­
sumed him. And though Cris Kirkwood is apparently sorting out his drug problems now, he does not make an appearance on Golden Lies, the Puppets' first album since the release of No Joke nearly six years ago. The album starts out with looped 
Cameroon tribal singing over a breakbeat 
and spacey synth waterfalls. Electronic sampling might 
not be the Meat Puppets forte, but the brief "Intro" 
sounds great and unfortunately nothing like it reappears 
until the very last minutes of the album. "Armed and Stupid" starts out in an '80s shred riff but breaks into a decent chorus that makes it worthy of past Puppets work. "I Quit" has au even catchier chorus, aud while singing about "the rotten rope" and the "path of' 
your evil glow," the song man­ages to come across as fairly uplifting. 
Unfortunately, from there the album hits a long slump with songs like "Lamp" and "Pieces of Me," both slow heavy rockers with bland lyrics. When Curt Kirkwood gets a little more imaginative, as he often attempts to do, the results are not always more inspiring. In ''Hercules" he sings "I've got a problem/ I've just been molested by a prehis­toric goblin/ From Mars with a Martian eyeball/ And it's just like a jellyfish nailed to a wall." 
The monster and alien metaphors pop up consistently throughout the album aud besides making the songs harder 
·to take seriously, it also dates the band. Rob Zombie not with­standing, it has been awhile since horror movie imagery made good ideas for rock songs. In fact over half the songs on the album, with their shred ready riffs and wah•wah wailings, seem like they could have been originally released two decades ago. 

Things definitely brighten up, however, with "Push the button," the album's standout song. Cheerful guitar flour­ishes accompany a bright rhythm that is as much Carribean as country two-step. "Tarantula" and "Endless wave" keep up the brighter vibe, aud as hard as it may be to believe, "Endless wave" seems to have some dis­cernible new wave elements. 
The biggest surprise on Golden Lies, however, comes at the end of the album, closer to "Fatboy/Fat/Requiem." After the forgettable Fatboy/Fat part, the requiem begins, first with a steel guitar/techno fuzz introduction, then the whining of a mandolin, the deep thump of an ultra slow waltz and sighing chorus, finally erased by howling elec­tronic wind. 
Like the looped samples aud synths in the intro, "Requiem" seems completely out of context with the Puppets' early work, yet the band pulls it off remarkably well. It would have been interesting to see a whole album of this kind of studio noodling, but the final product would have been unrecognizable as a Meat Puppets album. 
As it is, Golden Lies is unmistakably a Meat Puppets album even though Curt Kirkwood is the only original member left in the band. Missing, however, are the bright country rhythms and playful guitar solos that made 1994's Too High to die so fun to listen to. Instead, Curt Kirkwood prefers to play heavier metal inspired riffs that drag the album down in the middle. 
It is tempting to think that for Curt Kirkwood, now 42, it might be the time to call it quits to a successful 20 year career. However, songs like "I Quit" and "Push the Button" prove that the Puppets still have a few good albums left in them. Perhaps Cris Kirkwood may even join them once again aud make the greatest Meat Puppets album ever. 
Did someone just say "Behind the Music" special? 


Cftnec 
Tuesday, February 6, 2001 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
0-Town doesn't live up to fan's high expectations 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Scene Music Critic 
Most fans knew it. They bought tho boy bands' CDs, attended their concerts and watched their videos on MTV. But most fans knew it. 
Just like the newest band on the scene, O-Town, both the Ba1.:kstrec1. Boys and •Nsynr: were created by use of a spcdfic for­mula: nvn boys. a voice instructor, a choreographer and a wealthy manger who helped ensure a rncord deal, gigs and promolional photo shoots. 
Thanks to ABC's show "Making of the Band," many fans' suspi­cious and foars were proven right before their eyes -like the Hccbok pumps fad of the !ale '80s. boy bands are manufac­tured. built for a short Hie-span and overall, carbon copies of each other. 
But wait -before all the *NSYNC and Backstreet Boys fans throw this review off the lunch table. *NSYNC and Backstreet have something on O-Town, and that's experience. That experi­ence makns their albums more solid and worth purchasing if you 
O-Town O-Town 
J Records 
Rating 

la.I 
are a fan of pop music. 
llowevor, O-Town's debut album has only a few songs worth listening to: "Liquid Dreams," "All for Love," "Baby I Would" and possibly "Shy Girl." 
"Liquid Dreams," the first sin­gle off the album, is currently making daily appearances on MTV's "Total Request Live." Although it's not topping the lat­est hits from Backstreet and 
•NSYNC, the video's computer graphics draw fans who have consistfmtly voted the video into the Top 6. The fun, upbeat song describes a boy's fantasy of creat­ing the perfect girl by combining rnrtain features of superstars including Madonna, Jennifer Love llewitt, Janet Jackson, Tyra Ranks and Selma Hayek. 
"All For Love" and "Baby I Would" arc the two signature hits the boys performed over and over on their television show. For any­one who watched even a few episodes, these songs will instant­
. ly ring a bell. 
Track 11, "All For Love," is a good dance song, but from the lyrics, to the rhythm, to the har­mony, the song offers nothing new. It says, ''I'll be your king/ Because you are my queen/ Llfe's 



UPCOMING CONCERTS 
South Bend 

Umphrey•s McGee Norm Perf. Arts 
Indianapolis 

Harl Denson•s 
T•ny un,verse Yoaue Theai:er Neat Puppets Yoaue Theater Dark S-tar Orchestra Yoaue Theater Natchllox Twenty Conseco U2 Conseco 
Chicago 

L•nk•n Park House of Blues Coldplay Rjyjera 
BoyGeorae Metro Na«hew Swee1 Metro Pantera UIC PaYtHon EYe6 House of Blues Lords Of Acjd Ne1ro Saw Doctors Metro Noe. ••vtera 
Coull"Cesy of ••ckeunasser.com 

a livin' dream." Cute, yet cliche. It leaves you thinking, haven't I heard this song before'? 
However, track 12, "Baby I Would," does offer something new. Despite the numerous bal­lads boy bands put forth, "Baby I Would" stands out. It utilizes the several distinct voice ranges of the O-Town boys and creates nice harmony. 
The song says, "Would I walk through fire, just to be with you'?/ Would I cross an ocean just to hold you?/ Would I give up all I have to see you smile?/ Would I walk through hell and not think twice/ Baby I would.'' It's some­what reminiscent of the last song at a middle school dance ­you've asked your crush to dance and you're standing six feet apart swaying to the slow beat. The song L.:; sweet. 
To be honest, several of the other songs on O-Town's album shouldn't have made the cut. With millionaire Lou Pearlman ­the same man who created Backstreet and *NSYNC ­behind O-Town, they most likely sifted through hundreds of possi­ble singles to choose the best twelve. 
However, although Backtreet, *NSYNC and even Britney have turned to Swedish hit-maker Max Martin and his team to write songs, the O-Town album bears none of Martin's work. It has no classic party tunes like "Bye Bye Bye," "I Want It That Way," or "(Hit Me Baby) One More Time." 
People will likely laugh out loud when they hear track two, "Every Six Seconds." It describes a boy who has fallen head over heels for a young lady and thinks about her constantly. Ok, that would be flattering, except the lyrics arc quite bizarre. It says, 'Ten times a minute/ Six hundred times an hour/ Another cold shower/ Until you give me some." Here's a hint, boys, this not the best of pick-up lines. 

The laughing continues with track nine, "The Painter." It says, "If I were a painter, mixing my colors! How could I ever find, the blue of your eyes?/ The canvas could never capture the light of your smile." Once again, boys, this is not a cute, sweet pick-up line. It's an awful poem. The sixth graders at that middle school dance could've vvritten it better. 
Track six, "Shy Girl," has potential. It's lyrics are cute, and the up-tempo beat is catchy. It says, "Shy girl. it's written on your face/ A mermaid out of water. feelin' out of place/ Shy girl, tryin' to hide our love/ Pretending that there's nothing between the two of us/ Don't run away, don't be afraid/ Don't be shy, girl." It could be a concert favorite with the right choreo­graphed dance moves and laser show. 

Overall, the O-Town album is disappointing. "Making of the Rand" was an intriguing show, taking the conflict and love story themes that makes MlV's "Heal World" so addicting, plus it showed first hand the pressures in show business. 
Too bad O-Town's album isn't as intriguing and addicting as the show. Their careers probably won't ever reach Backstreet or *NSYNC's level, but hey, living in a mansion with all expenses paid, getting a record deal. and touring the country isn't exactly a bad way to spend a few years of one's 

Nar. 17 
.Ai;:r. 
Felt, 11 
Fell. IJ -Nar. l./ · 

Nar.6 

Na-, 10 
*;~ 

Feb.l:l; 
Felt. 19 Fell. 11 
Fet,.13 
Mar. I 
Mar. I 
Nar.1 
Nar.o 

Nar. 10 

.. Today 

Tricky -N•ssion AccompUshed 
:,{tjq@y:. .rnltrROd :Stewart .. Hum•n Donny Osmond ~. Th•s Is 1:he Noment Soundtrack ·"!·· Nalcolm •n the Nllddle 

'/~lli;j:'.j;l, B.ecil'! Yct'i. Had It Comllna 
February 13 
~\;;Usher • AH About You 
John Frusciante·-To Record Only-Wllth Water For'bn Days 
Tan1:rllc • Tantrllc 
February20 
Henry RolHns -A Rollins in the Way Boy Georae -Essen-C:llal N•x Leonard Cohen -Flelcl Commander Cohen: Tour of 1070 
Cources,-•• waHOfSOund.eom 
page 14 
The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 6, 2001 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL
Professor petitions for fraud monitoring Chippewas turn season around 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE 

University of Tennessee pro­fessor Linda Bensel-Meyers petitioned the Faculty Senate on Monday to take a bigger part in investigating and n10ni­toring academic fraud in the athletics department. 
The faculty group sent the

-
matter to committees. 
Bensel-Meyers came forward in the fall of 1999 with allega­tions that, among olher Lhings. tutors wrote papers for athletes -particularly football players -and that athletes were steered toward easy classes and had low grades raised after they completed courses. 
The university and the NCAA have so far found no wrongdo­ing, but their investigations are ongoing. 
The Faculty Senate's athletics committee also looked into the matter, but in November, the body decided to turn over its investigation to a three-person committee under the authority of the university provost. 
Bensel-Meyers asked that the Senate reconsider its move. 
"As faculty at the University of Tennessee, we are charged with defending the educational mission of the institution, not with protecting the business of college athletics, a business that depends foremost on recruiting the best athletes who would not be admitted as quali­fied for college work if they were not athletes," she told the Senate. 
Hensel-Meyers, who has become a target for criticism inside and outside the universi­ty, has gained the support of the Drake Group, also known as the National Alliance of Faculty for College Athletics Reform. Several members from other schools attended the meeting. 
She believes athletes, particu­larly men, are unfairly treated by not receiving a quality edu­cation and exploited for their athletic skill. 
"These are the athletes whose labor on the field of play ensures the economic success of our athletics programs," she said. "They are also the ath­1etes who receive little in return, other than the off­chance they will win the jack­pot with a chance in the pros." 
Bensel-Meyers gave the facul­ty representatives five recom­mendations for improving the academic climate for athletes. 
The Faculty Senate moved to send the recommendations to various committees for further review. 
The first recommendation asked that athletes meeting NCAA and Southeastern Conference academic require­ments also meet universitv standards. · 
And the senate unanimously passed a similar resolution underscoring its belief that ath­letes and regular students should be held to the same admission, retention and grad­uation requirements. 
Vice Pr~vost Anne Mayhew, the faculty representative for the NCAA and head of the provost's oversight committee, didn't disagree with the state­ment but didn't see a need to pass it. 
"I don't think it's going to make a great deal of difference in what we do," she said. 
Bensel-Meyers' speech drew little debate. Some faculty members asked questions about admission policies and learning disability accommoda­tions and said they didn't have the time nor resources to devote to more in-depth investi­gation. 
"I do wish there had been a little more discussion," Bensel­Meyers said. "I don't think the oversight committee is the answer. I'm hopeful the Faculty Senate will take up the charge." 
Members of the Drake Group have found that faculty across the country have been mostly unwilling to take charge. 
"If we raised the bar for the athletes and didn't let people have all these breaks, it could possibly shut the system down," Allen Sack, a professor at New Haven (Conn.) University, said. "But we've been willing to allow these things to happen." 
Associated Press 
MOUNT PLEASANT, Mich. Jay Smith was all over the court. 
Central Michigan's coach had his practice plan rolled up in one hand, a pen over an ear and a whistle in his mouth ­when he wasn't shouting instructions. critic isms or words of encouragement. 
The Chippewas listened to every word and watched every gesture, just as they have en route to winning eight straight games, taking over first place in the Mid-American Conference, and fashioning the best turnaround in college basketball. 
"We have not accomplished anything yet," Smith insisted after practice Monday. "I don't want these guys settling for anything we've done so far." 
There hasn't been this much excitement -:-or success -at Central Michigan since Dan Majerle, who plays for the Miami Heat, took his shooting touch to the NBA in 1988. 
The Chippewas (15-4, 9-1 MAC) are on pace to become the first conference team to go from last place one season to 
first the next. 

They were 6-23 overall and 
2-16 in the MAC last season. 
If Central Michigan beats Ball State on Wednesday at home, its nine-game winning streak would be the school's best since 1987-88, Majerle's senior year. A MAC champi­onship would be the program's first since Majorie was a junior and just its fourth ever. And with eight regular-season games remaining, Central Michigan has clinched a win­ning record for just the third time since 1980. 
Central Michigan has one star with a familiar name. 
David Webber, whose older brother Chris played at Michigan and is an All-Star for the Sacramento Kings, scored 53 points in two victories last week. The 6-foot-2 guard tops the MAC with his scoring aver­age of 20. 2 points and is among the conference leaders in assists, rebounds. field goal percentage and 3-pointers made. 
"It's been an unbelievable year," Webber said. "In the past, we worked hard, but we didn't have talent. Now we have talent and a good work ethic and that's a great combi­nation." 
Smith's first recruiting class. which included current point guard Tim Kisner, won 12 MAC games during its first three seasons. 
"Every time we win, it's spe­cial because we didn't get to enjoy many wins in the past." said Kisner, who averages 8.2 points and 4.6 assists. "We're winning because we have attracted better players and because Coach has stuck with us and believed in us when things were not going well. He hasn't wavered from his b'cliefs one bit since I've been here." 
Smith, who was an assistant at Michigan from 1989-96, was Grand Valley's head coach for one season before going to Central Michigan for the 1997­98 season. The Chippewas won just five games that sea­son, 10 the next, and six last season. 
"We're not a school that can go out and get McDonald All­Americans," Smith said. "but if we can keep finding blue-col­lar kids that want to roll up their sleeves, work hard and have some fun, we can really get something special going on here." 

MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER 
16-year-old Quaranta becomes youngest Major League player 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. 

Santino Quaranta, at 16 years, 4 months the youngest player to sign with Major League Soccer, was taken by D.C. United on Monday in the annual SuperDraft. 
Forward Chris Carrieri, who led the NCAA last year with 25 goals for North Carolina, was taken by San Jose with the top pick. 
Tampa Bay, picking second, went for Duke for­ward Ali Curtis, the 1999 Hermann Trophy win­ner. 
D.C. United then took midfielders Mark Llsi of Clemson and Ryan Nelson of Stanford, who plays for New Zealand's Under-23 team. 
D.C. United, which selected Quaranta with the eighth pick, made five draft-day trades, ending a three-day, eight-trade overhaul. 
"Being so young I knew it was going to be tough, but I had a feeling that I was going to be eighth when I saw the trades," Quaranta said. 'Tm look­ing forward to gaining some respect from the other players and working my way up. I've been to three United games before and it's a great atmosphere." 
D.C. United goalkeeper Tom Presthus and the No. 10 overall pick were sent to the Columbus Crew for the No. 3 overall selection; forward A.J. Wood was traded to the Kansas City Wizards for a third-round pick, No. 36 overall, which was then shipped with defender Geoff Aunger to the Colorado Rapids for a second-round pick, No. 18 overall. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Would you like an opportunity to Cooks and delivery drivers wanted. Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls & earn a $10,000 scholarship towards Call Boracho Inc. at 258-9834. Nag Hammadi Codices Research: 
FOR RENT TICKETS PERSONAL 
ND student to work at a summer BLACK FEMALE ROOMATE IN desn031/deadsea. html 
beach estate from 5/15/2001 -CASTLEPOINT . 3-5 bedroom homes near campus 8/15/2001 in Eastern Long Island $350 271-7195 Need tickets to Nd v. Seton Hall on JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND Boy, Nell, you've only had it a 232-2595 mmmrentals@aol.com (Hamplons), New York. Live-in 2/18 Call 243-9306 Have your parents slay in real "Irish month or so and you've already 
position (room and board provided) Summer jobsl Camp Tecumseh Comfort" at more affordable prices banged it up Houses for Ren with beach.pool, and house respon-YMCA is now hiring for cabins, WANTED: 2 tickets for the 2/18 than area hotels. Gourmet break­
1) 5-br $900/month sibilities. Work 6 days per week. equestrian, aquatics and support men's basketball game vs. Seton fast brunch included. Call The Wild get on the floor and do the alligator' 
2) 4-br. $1000/month Applicant must be very responsible, staff. We are a Christian camp Hall. Please call 4-3593. Irish Rose Inn at 277-4303 Or visit 
3) 3-br. $600/monlh industrious, hard working, a self-localed near Lafayette, In. Season our site: www.irii;;brQse.i:;Qm Are you ready for DC? More appro­We'll make almost any changes to starter, impeccably well groomed, is 10 weeks. Salary $1900-$2300. priately, is DC ready for US? the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 with a nice amiable personality. Representatives will be on campus Free airline miles and ca$h It is
FOR SALE

Room and board provided plus on Feb. 8. Call tor an application international and 100% FREE to I'm so glad Mooria fits in so well as Live in Lafayette Next Year 5 bdrm. spending money and $10,000 today! Call 1-800-382-2267 join (but not for long) our new roommate. After Mr. A. I $1305/mth marty 232-1306 towards tuition. Please send {www i:;,imi,tei::~m~eb.Qrg) It's an Beautiful brass bed, queen size, b!11,:LLwww.the12a)'line.i::Qm. Click to didn't think it could get any better 
resume and a one-page statement experience that lasts a lifetime I with orthopedic mattress set and ENROLL without any delay as But I was wrong. Rooms for rent & share home. 66-on why you think you should be deluxe frame. All new, never used, everyone joining after you from the 75 week includes utilities and cable. hired to: Box 1 53, 60 E. Chestnut The Early Childhood Development still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 whole world will be placed under Christina, how are the plans for lhe 233-4013 St., Chicago, IL 60611 . Center, located at Saint Mary's you in one straight earning you free band coming? Con I do back up? 
College and the University ot Notre Phone cards $20 -2601 min with airline miles. SIGN UPI Use my Tutor needed for pre-calculus St. Dame, is looking for volunteers who 49 cent surcharge or $20 -362 email address as your referrer: Ille: Darlin'. Joseph High School student enjoy young children. If you would min with no fees 634-421 oSara or jpggroup@earthlink.net. Questions? 
WANTED 
(219)-273-0322 be interested in spending 2 hours a 634-1146 Claudia Send me an emaill Child-bearing hips. Nice compli­
week reading children's books, ment. Why arent those womenjust ND grads seek older female sitter to Pet Refuge, a no kill animal shelter buildings with blocks and singing 1998 Mitsubishi 3000GT 27,000 "Bed and Breakfasr in private lining up? care for two girls ages 7 & 9, one or just 10 min from campus needs vol· songs with children, please call Kari miles automatic red/black leather home for JPW & Graduation week• two weekend evenings &occasion-unteers and fosters Alford at 284-4693 (ECDC-SMC) or interior 1 OCD/prernium sound alloy ends; 3 bdrms w/private bath in Nikki the Kit Kat saved my life. ally weekdays or evenings. Must Please call 256-0886 or visit Debbie Hart at 631-3344 {ECDC-wheels-tinted windows excellent lovely neighborhood 10 min. from have own car. Call Judith 287-0200 Yi'N:/!. ®l!llll.l!m C:Q!ll and email us NO) Please join our fun filled days. condition $21 ,000/offer 315-0939 campus 234-2626 Well maybe that's a bit dramatic. 
/ 

next year's tuition? Looking for an www.geocities.com:80/ Athens/Rho 
Tuesday, February 6, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
Beginning Monday, January 29 through February 19 
Sign-up for Freshman Retreat #34 (February 23-24, 2001) Pick up applications at I 03 Hesburgh Library or print one out online at 
www.nd.eJuf ,..,ministrylfreshmanfonn.html 
Beginning Monday, February 5 through February 23 

Sign-up for Senior Retreat #5 (March 2-3, 2001) Pick up applications at 103 Hesburgh Library or print one out online 
at www.nd.edu/-ministrylseniorform.html 
Monday-Tuesday. February 5-6, 11:30 pm-10:00pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, February 6, 7:00 p.m. Resumes Badin Hall Chapel ~ 
Campus Bible Study ' .....,. Tonight!! 
Tuesday, February 6. 7:00 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 

Confirmation -Session #8 
Tuesday. February 6. 7:30 p.m. 134 Zahm Hall 
Information meeting for the Coachella Seminar (March I 0-17) in California 
Wednesday, February 7, 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Thursday, February 8, 6:00 p.m. Foster Room, LaFortune 
Campus Ministry Intern Information Night 
Thursday, February 8, 6:30 p.m. 201 De Bartolo 
RClA Study Session 
Friday-Saturday, February 9-10 Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Senior Transition Retreat Co-sponsored with the Center for Social Concerns 
Fnday-Sunday. February 9-11 Fatima Retreat Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #64 
Friday-Sunday, February 9-11 Wisconsin, Minnesota 
Notre Dame Women's Liturgical Choir Tour 
Saturday-Sunday, February 10-11 Pilsen. Chicago. IL 
Encuentro Chicago Retreat Co-sponosred with the Center for Social Concerns 
Sunday, February 11. 10:00 a.m. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune 
RClA Class Mass at 11:45 a.m. 

Sunday. February 11, 1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Pat Neary, c.s.c. 
Sunday. February 11. 8:00 p.m. 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart Goshen College Chamber Choir & Orchestra Concert 

Campus Ministry 
112 Badin Hall 631-5242 
103 Hesburgh Library 637-7800 email ministry.1@nd.edu 
web www.nd.edu/~ ministry 
March 2001 Coleman-Morse Center 
_" 

mi 
Online Retreat Applications Apply for a retreat in your pajamas 
Applications for campus Ministry retreats are now available online at the following addresses: 
Freshman Retreat 

www.nd.edu/,...,ministrylfreshmanform.html 
Senior Retreat 
www. nd. edul,...,ministrylseniorform.html 
Notre Dame Encounter with Christ (NOE) 
www.nd.edu/,-,ministry!ndeform.html 
Fill out the online form, print it out & drop it by the Campus Ministry office at Hesburgh Library. 
II Second Chance 
Ifyou missed it the first time... 
Dr. Cornet West 
Professor of Afro-American History and Philosophy of Religion Harvard University 
Encore Video Presentation 

Thursday, February 8 at 7:00 p.m. 
.t+ ,\-a, fes ~_,_
Room 129 DeBartolo Hall 
,1,L...,e .\-0 Pt 
1 " 

Duration: 1 hr 45 minutes (lecture and Q&A only) ....., f'J' 
.\I,~ R1(1re 

For info. contact Chandra Johnson at 1-3748 or johnson.10@nd.edu. Sponsored by the University Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday Celebration Committee 
1'•·•1­
-~ Service Opportunity Help is needed for "Parents' Time Out" 

--a child care co-operative held at the Community Center at University Village (Graduate Student Housing for married students with children; located within walking distance of campus). A pair of helping hands would be appreciated to assist with craft activities and in organizing games. 
Help Needed: Monday Mornings from 9:30 -11 :30a.m. 
If you can't commit to the entire block of time, even part of it would be helpful. Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 1-7163. 

Interfaith Prayer Service 
Prayer. Nusic. Praise. 
Every Wednesday @ IO p.m. Morrissey Manor Chapel
lnteMID1 
~fflttl 

featurina the Celebration Choir
ffl)g.ht 
[lJ.ii)Jer 

ALL ARE WELCOME 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 6, 2001 
XFL 
Voters split over Ventura's dual role 
Associated Press 
The shock had worn off soon into Jesse Ventura's debut as an XFL announcer. 
Those who had issues with the governor of Minnesota taking part in the sizzle-over-steak football league still had issues, but Ventura said little Saturday night to enhance or dispel them. 
"We knew it would be a little unusual, and it is a little unusu­al," said Minnesota's House majority leader, Rep. Tim Pawlenty. "But that's kind of built into the equation. Maybe we should all quit acting sur­prised by it." 
Many Minnesotans, who com­prised the second-largest group of viewers for the game Saturday night between Las Vegas Outlaws and the New York/New Jersey Hitmen, thought the same. 
"People around the country know he's half showman and half governor," said Torn Rolnicki of Minneapolis. "It's known here and should be known around the nation." 
Ventura has been at odds with statewide critics who say he should not be moonlighting on the XFL venture. Rep. Phil Krinkie has crafted abill that would limit the governor's out­side income or force him to dis­close his income from the jobs. 
Even critics such as Krinkie had more problems with Ventura's association with the XFL than anything the governor said Saturday night. 
"One comment I heard was, docs he really think this is some­thing the governor should be doing?" Krinkie said. "He treats thisasa40-50-hour-a-weekjob. The people of the state and peo­pie of the nation have always looked at legislators as a 24-7 job." 
Ventura has maintained that his own time is no one else's business. A statewide poll last month indicated that Minnesotans are split as to whether they agree with him or believe he should stay focused on running the state. 
The governor did not respond Monday to a message seeking comment. 
Bob Hampton of Crystal called Ventura's appearance a "national embarrassment." 
Elaine Johnson of St. Cloud had no such problem. 
"Whether he does it or not, I don't care as long as it doesn't interfere with his governing," Johnson said. "If there's some­thing important going on in the state, I would expect him to excuse himself (from the XFL games) and take care of it." 
Most media critics were clear where they stood. 
Ventura's debut as an XFL analyst received a C-minus from USA Today media critic Rudy Martzke. Judging by comments from around the country, Martzke was being kind. 
Critics said Ventura was loud 
and unprepared for the XFL's 
debut game on NBC-TV. 

"I don't know if he was told to be a roaring river of inanities, but that's what he was," said Richard Sandomir, The New York Times' sports radioff'V critic. "Wind him up, and he says nothing. but he says it loud­ly." 
Sandomir wasn't alone. 
"Listening to the broadcast was like having Jesse Ventura personally berate you for three hours," wrote Steve Johnson of the Chicago Tribune. "Yelling into the microphone even more forcefully than Dick Vitale, Ventura is a ham-fisted wit, more bluster than cleverness." 
Critics said a low point in Ventura's commentary came as Hitmen quarterback Charles Puleri was checked by a trainer for a possible concussion. 
"Aw, he didn't get hit that hard," Ventura said. "He didn't even get hit in the head. I want to know why Puleri's out of the game. You can read it all on his face. The quarterback has quit." 
Ventura, who struggled with the names of players and coach­es, might be unable to avoid criticism that he appeared unprepared for the broadcast. 
"I do know it takes a lot of time to prepare for a broad­cast," said former CBS analyst Irv Cross, the athletic director of Macalester College, just down the street from the governor's mansion in St. Paul. "You're going to spend a whole week preparing for it. It's not just going out on a Saturday for one day." 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Torn ligament ends Abrosimova's career 
Abrosimova had 18 points
Associated Press 

against Tennessee before she was injured with 9:22 left in theThe college career of game Thursday night. By win­
Connecticut All-American 

ning, Tennessee moved up a spotSvetlana Abrosimova is over to No. 2 in the poll, and UConnbecause she has a torn ligament 
fell to No. 3.
in her left foot. 
The lluskies got a glimpse ofThe 6-foot-2 senior forward life without
was injured 
Abrosimovagoing up for a in Sunday's

rebound in a "We all hurt for Svet 
win over92-88 loss to 

because this is really Villanova.
Tennessee, 

unfair to her. Who would Starting
whom the 
w a s

Huskies have have thought that 
Freshman
battled for 

Sz,etlana 's last game D i a n a
national 

would be against Taurasi,
supremacy for 
considered

several sea­Tennessee?" 
the heirsons. The apparent toinjury was 

Geno Auriemma the Hussian
originally 
s t a r .

diagnosed as head coach 
a sprain, and she was expected to miss just two weeks. 
But an examination Monday showed the foot will require surgery. UConn consulting sur­geons Michael Aronow and Kevin Shea will operate Wednesday. 
"We all hurt for Svet because this is really unfair to her," said coach Geno Auriemma. "Who would have thought that Svetlana's last college game would be against Tennessee? She knows her coaches and her teammates will support her every step of the way as she goes through her surgery and rehabil­itation period." 
Taurasi, last 

season's high school player of the year, scored seven points and was coming ofT a career-high 24 point performance in the loss to Tennessee. 
Before the Villanova game, Taurasi said she's learned much from Abrosimova and isn't wor­ried about taking on more responsibility. 
"She's the most mentally tough person I know," Taurasi said. "Everyone has to do a little bit more. I know I'm a freshman and all, but it's playing basket­ball and that's what I've been doing all my life." 

An auction to promote Leukemia Awareness sponsored by the 
When: TONIGHT! 8pm-10pm 
Where: Lafortune Ballroom 

Admission: ALL ARE WELCOME! FREE ADMISSION! Bid numbers are $3.00. Bidding starts at $25.00 per package. You can bid in groups. YOU MUST PAY AT THE AUCTION so bring your CASH or PERSONAL CHECKS 
Prize Packages: Packages include a catered dinner at Alumni Senior Club (or alternate location) and ad­mission to the women1s basketball game against Miami both on Tuesday February 20th beginning at 6pm. No further obligations are required of the· participants or the bidders. 
Packages include the following individuals: •WOMENS
• 
Brooke Norton & Brian • FOOTBALL:John Owens, • POMS SQUAD:Erin TENNIS: Nina

O'Donoghue Grant Irons &Tony Weaver Dilorenzo, Michele Vaughan & Lindsey

• 
Jonathan Jorissen & • HOCKEY:Rob Globke,Brett Delay, Lauren Green

Taylor McWilliams Lebda, Dave Inman, Neil Wenning, Kristin •MENS

• 
Sharon Bui & Kristen Komadoski & Jon Maruk O'Connor,Jen Courtney • MENS SOCCER:Connor Walker,Jen Sablich TENNIS:Aaron 

• 
Professor Ester Mariam Larose, Griffin Howard, •WOMENS Talarico, Andrew Sent Dustin Pridmore, Matt Rosso TRACK:Liz Grow, Ana Laflin & Ricki 

• 
Father Hesburgh & Paul Rodrequiez Morales, Betsy Lazzari Buhrman 

• 
Father Bill Wack & Jill Vanweelden 


Tuesday, February 6, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Grieving Cowboys find win on court 
Assucia1ed Press 
STILLWATEH. Okla. 

Oklahoma State's basketball team played a game Monday night. giving the players and coaches a chance to focus ­for a whiln, at least -on somt1Lhi11g other than the loss of IO friends. 
Woltomed by a boisterous crnwd, tho Cowboys rclurncd to the court to play Missouri in their first game since a Jan. 27 plane crash i11 Colorado that killed two players and eight other members of' lhti school's traveling party, winning 69-66. 
Many in the crowd. along with the coaches l"rom both schools, wore orange ribbons in memory of tho victims. The main lobby of' the arena remained filled with 11owers and handwritten messages to the victims. 
The students, most of them in place 90 minutes before tipoff. gave each of the Oklahoma Stale players a standing ovation as they filed out, a few at a lime, for the prcgame shoot around. Fredrik Jonzen, the first out, applauded back at them with upraised arms. 
The players received a standing ovation from the nearly full Gallagher-Iba Arena as they trotted lo the dressing room shortly before the game. Then, moments later, the arena fell silent for 30 seconds to honor tho victims. 
Four minutes before game 
time. the arena rocked with 
noise once again as the team 
came onto the 11oor. 
Coach Eddie Sutton followed 
moment,; later, trailed by near­
ly a dozen television cameras. 
"/ think they will respond in a very positive man­ner. This group ofguys has proven to me that they will dedicate them­selz,es to Dan Lawson and Nate Fleming. They ·u want lo db every­thing thay can to win as many games as possible" 
Eddie Sutton head coach 
"Remembering our fallen 10, we'll prove once again this is the rowdiest arirna in the country," public address announcer Larry Reece bel­lowed prior to introducing the starling lineups. As usual, each Cowboy was greeted with a roar. 
The game program was dedi­cated to the victims and the cover featured a picture of each. The lineup sheets provid­ed to media listed the names of players Dan Lawson and Nate Fleming, with a ribbon along­side each. 
The OSU uniforms included a black square on the chest with the number 10 and a ribbon inside. 
Oklahoma State (13-4, 4-2 Big 12) has been able to hold only a handful of practices since the crash. The Cowboys' first organized workout came last Tuesday, and the next day they gathered with thousands of others for a public memorial service inside Gallagher-Iba Arena. 
Since then. there have been 
funerals to attend just about 

every day. The latesl was Monday morning, when sports information employee Will Hancock was remembered at a service attended by Sutton and his staff. as well as coaches from across the university. 
"We've talked to our team a lot," said Sean Sutton, Eddie's son and the team's associate head coach. "What's happened is a terrible tragedy and every­body's sorry. I think our guys realize that they've got to go forward with their lives. 
"I think one of the best ways for that to happen is to get back in a routine -going to class every day, studying, going on the practice court and practicing, and playing games." 
Monday's game was tho start of a busy week for the Cowboys, one that will require thorn to focus as best they can on the task at hand. After play­ing Missouri (14-6, 5-2), they travel to Nebraska on Wednesday and visit Kansas on Saturday. 
"I think we do need to get back and start playing games,'' Jonzen had said last week. "I think it's going to help all of us get through this." 
Eddie Sutton said the first practice after the crash was as good as any this year. He said he expected his players, despite the difficulty of the past week, will play well in their return. 
"I think they will respond in a very positive manner," he said. "This group of guys has proven to me that they will dedicate themselves to Dan Lawson and Nate Fleming. They'll want to do everything they can to win as many games as possible." 

NBA 

Raptors end Celtics' 6-gallle win streak 
Associated Press 
TOHONTO 
Vince Curter, showing no ill 
effects from a sore left knee. 
scored 29 points as the Toronto 
Raptors snapped the Boston 
Celtics' six-game winning streak 
with a 110-98 win Monday night. 
Carter, who has missed time 
recently because of the knee 
injury, didn't hesitate on his dri­
ves and shot 10-of-17 from the 
field. 
Charles Oakley had 18 points 
and 12 rebounds and Morris 
Peter:;on added 15 points as 
Toronto ended a two-game skid. 
Alvin Williams scored 12 points 
while Antonio Davis added B 
points and 12 rebounds for the 
Raptors, who have won five of 
the last six against the Celtics. 
Paul Pierce had 39 points for 
Boston. but was scoreless in the 
fourth quarter. Antoine Walker 
scored 17 points and Walter 
McCarty added 11. 
76ers 99, Nuggets 80 
Allen Iverson, a late arrival at 
the First Union Center because of 
a snowstorm, scored 37 points 
and the Philadelphia 76ers 
snapped a two-game losing 
streak with a victory over the 
Denver Nuggets. 
The start of the game was 
delayed one hour by the bad 
weather. Denver's team bus 
arrived late at the arena and sev­
eral Sixers had trouble making it 
on time. 
Aaron McKie added 11 points 
and 10 assists for Philadelphia, 
which leads the NBA with a 36­
13 record. McKie, the last player 
to arrive for the game, missed his 
third triple-double of the season 
by two rebounds. 
Antonio McDyess scored 28 
points and George Mccloud had 
13 for the Nuggets, who have lost 
four offive. 
Rockets 100, Knlcks 86 
Steve Francis and Hakeem Olajuwon ignited a third-quarter comeback that helped the Houston Rockets rally from a 14­point deficit and beat the New York Knicks. 

Francis had 14 points and Olajuwon 10 in the quarter as l louston, which trailQd as much as 58-44 in the second period, came back to lead 80-70 after three. 
Francis linL-;hed with 29 poinL<; and 10 rebounds. Olajuwon matched his season high with 18 points. and had nine robounds. Cuttino Mobley added 21 poinL-; as the Hockets ended a thren­game losing streak. 
Allan Houston had 31 points for the Knicks, who also got 14 from Marcus Camby and 13 from Lattrell Sprewell. Shandon Anderson added 11 points and Maurice Taylor 10 for Ilouston. 
Spurs 109, Warriors 85 
Tim Duncan had 24 points and 12 rebounds to lead the San Antonio Spurs to their seventh straight win, over the Golden State Warriors. 
Derck Anderson and Antonio Daniels added 14 points apiece for San Antonio, while David Robinson and Malik Hose each scored 13. Rose also added 1O rebounds. 
Antawn Jamison scored 29 points to lead the Warriors, who lost their fifth straight overall and 11th consecutive game to the Spurs. 
After leading by 12 points at halftime, San Antonio opened the third quarter with a 20-6 run to make it 73-47 on Robinson's layup with 4:11 remaining in the quarter. 
The lead grew to 30 after 

three, and Golden State could get 
no closer than 24 point,; in the 
fourth quarter as San Antonio 
improved its home record to 19­
4. 
San Antonio closed the first 

hall' with a 13-2 run to lead 53­
41 at halftime as Duncan had 18 
point'> and 10 rebounds. 
Jamison kept the Warriors in 

the game, with 26 first half 
points. 
The Warriors led briefly early 

in the game as Jamison had 17 
first-quarter points to lead 
Golden State to a 23-22 lead 
after one. 

Every Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
in the Badin Hall chapel 
This is an interfaith bible stuay lea by Fr. Al O'Alonzo, c.s.c. All stuaents are invited. 
CM 
Campu1 Mln1nry 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 6, 2001 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Arbitration season begins in full sw-ing 
Associated Press 
Baseball's salary arbitra­tion season began Monday when Philadelphia first base­man Travis Lee and the Phillies argued their case before a three-man panel in Phoenix. 
Lee, who hit .235 last sea­son with nine homers and 54 RBIs in 404 at-bats, asked for a raise from $500,000 to $1.6 million. The Phillies coun­tered at $800,000. 
Arbitrators Jack Clarke, Matthew Finken and Jerome Ross heard the case and were expected to issue a decision Tuesday or Wednesday. 
Forty-eight players remain in arbitration, with hearings scheduled through Feb. 21. Last year, just 10 cases went to hearings. This year, it appears likely there will be the most hearings since at least 1994, when there were 
16. 
Derek Jeter, who asked for an arbitration record $18.5 
million, is not expected to need a hearing. The Yankees and their All-Star shortstop are negotiating on a $189 million, 10-year contract. 
Work on that deal has been temporarily stopped while Jeter's agent, Casey Close, prepared for a Tuesday hear­ing involving another client. 
Yankees president Randy Levine was working on his case against reliever Mariano Rivera, scheduled for Thursday. Rivera, who lost in arbitration last year after winning in 1999. has asked for a raise from $7.25 million to $10.25 million 
Two Tampa Bay Devil Rays who had been scheduled for hearings Wednesday agreed to one-year contracts, reliev­er Esteban Yan ($650,000) and outfielder Jose Guillen ($975,000). 
Yan made $265,000 last season and Guillen $375,000. Both got new contracts at the midpoint of what they had asked for and the Devil Rays had offered. 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 

Located Just East of the Notre Dame soccer field! 

NOW LEASING 2-BEDROOMS AND TOWNHOMES FOR FALL 2001 
AS LOW AS $270 PER PERSON! GREAT FOR ROOMMATES! 
HURRY SPACES ARE FILLING FAST! 

**REMODELED UNITS AVAILABLE** DON'T WAIT! PICK UP YOUR APPLICATION PACKET TODAY! 
Call or stop by the leasing office today for details! P: 272-8124 

IOC refuse to recognize DeMont 
Associated Press 
DAKAR, SENEGAL 
The International Olympic Committee refused Monday to offer special recognition to Rick DeMont, the American swimmer stripped uf his gold medal after a positive drug test 29 years ago. 
Last week, the U.S. Olympic Committee said it would recog­nize DeMont at its board meeting in April in a gesture intended to clear his name and acknowledge that he was not a drug cheat. 
The 44-year-old DeMont, now a swimming coach at the University of Arizona, hoped the IOC would consider restoring his gold medal or at least offer some form of official acknowledgment that he was not an intentional doper. But the IOC's legal com­mission ruled out any action Monday. 
Canadian IOC member Dick Pound, head of the World Anti­Doping Agency, said he raised the issue of recognizing DcMont at the meeting but found no sup­port. 
DeMont said he was not dis­heartened by the decision. 
"I wasn't really expecting a gold medal," he said from his home in Tucson. "The USOC and an IOC member and the head of the World Anti-Doping Agency have all cleared my name. To me that seems like a real positive step to come out of this tornado that I have been living in." 
DeMont's lawyer, David Ulich, said favorable comment from the IOC "really would have been icing on the cake." 
Ulich doesn't think the IOC's refusal to give him DeMont spe­cial recognition minimizes the action of the USOC. Ulich said the IOC was concerned about setting a precedent, and that it's refusal does not reflect personally on DeMont. 

Pound lamented that DeMont had been listed by an Australian newspaper during the Sydney Games as No. 2 on the all-time list of Olympic drug cheats behind Ben Johnson. 
"That's what motivated me to raise the issue," Pound said. 
But the commission was con­cerned about setting a precedent that could lead to dozens of other athletes contesting Olympic results going back many years, he said. 
"The commission was inclined to say it was a United States ath­lete, it's a United States problem, they (the USOC) acknowledged there was no intent. and that's probably enough," Pound said. 
DeMont said the short amount of time between last week's USOC recognition and the IOC meeting might not have allowed members enough time to study his case. 
He said he will not actively pursue IOC recognition or a gold medal, but he knows others will be lobbying on his behalf. 
"This situation will keep com­ing up because it's something that needs to be made right," he said. "But I'm closing the book for now." 

Fresh-baked Cini-minis for just 99c. Maximum taste. 

The irresistible taste of Cini-minis. 
Whether it was the smell or the great cinnamon taste that lured you in, after one bite you'll soon realize that the only thing small about our delicious Cini-minis is the price. 
The Huddle, Lafortune Student Center 


Tuesday, February 6, 200 l The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
End of track teaID brings new era 
Any ending is a difficult thing, often presenting the feelings of uncertainty and sadness. Endings, hownver, do bring one very impor­tant thing to life -new beginnings. 
Last 
Wednes­day, Saint Mary's ath­letic direc­tor Lynn 
Kachmarik announced lo the pub­lic that the 


Saint 
Katie McVoy

Mary's 
truck and field team 
Inside Saint 

would be 
Mary's Sports

disrnntin­Ut!d follow­ing the 2002 season. As clicht1 as it may sound, the ending of this team may mark the boginning of a new era in athletics. 
I applaud th!' administration of Saint Mary's. I know making this decision required months of debate. The athletic director and the presi­dent ul' the College have both expressed their deep regret that this decision had to be made, but they also made it clear that it was a 
necessary one. 
In the last three years, the Saint Mary's athletic department has made some very important choices geared to move the program in a competitive direction -including hiring a full-time basketball coach. improving facilities, and making a trainer available year-round. The program seems to be moving in the right direction, but it could only do so much. 
In order to participate in the MIM, the athletic department must be fueled by more money to hire full-time coaches. Although many of the coaches at Saint Mary's would work for free, in order to bring the program to a truly competitive level, salaries have to go up. 
In addition to coaching, facilities need some help. The Regina pool is nut large enough to support large­scale practices, let alone competi­tions. The College lacks a track, and uniforms and training equipment must be constantly replaced. No one can expect a program with resources as limited as they are to provide adequately. 
Money plays a very important role in just about every aspect of college. Administrators need to have money to expand the campus, students need to have the personal funds to pay tuition and still be able to go out on Saturday nights, and athletic directors have to have enough money tu build a reputable athletic program. Saint Mary's athletics fell short on lhc funding end, and the resporn;e was the dissolution of the track program. 
Why choose to end the track pro­gram? Why couldn't the athletic department get the money from somewhere else? Where is tuition money going? These are all ques­tions that have been on the minds and on the lips of track athletes and track supporters since last week's announcement. 
I understand how it feels to work 
very hard for something that gets 
set aside. I sympathize with the ath­
letes who have spent so much of 
their time here at Saint Mary's 

working to participate for the Belles 
by running and taking part in field events. However, the betrayal these athletes feel will -in the end ­become a testimonial to the idea that sacrifices and endings can bring about new beginnings. 
It is difficult to get past the pre­sent feelings of hurt and disappoint­ment, but ifwe can take a moment and look at the future, we can see that this decision was the right one. With the limited amount of money that will now funnel into the depart­ment instead of going to the track team, Saint Mary's could hire another coach, improve swimming facilities or spend some more time recruiting athletes. Benefiting from these new opportunities, the pro­gram will have the ability to grow and bear the fruits of victory. A suc­cessful athletics program will be better able to truly give back to the athletes making sacrifices in order to support their school. 
The future of Saint Mary's sports looks bright whe_n we see the possi­bilities this program cut opens up. Five or 10 years down the road, the team may be back and running on a beautiful, class-/\ track and leaping over brand new hurdles. instead of hurdling money issues. 
It is time to take a step back and see this decision as a step forward. This may be the ending of a team, but it is the beginning of an era. The administration, athletic staff and athletes deserve a round of applause for making and accepting the difficult decision that can vault Saint Mary's athletics into the 21st century. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Fencing 
continued from page 24 
out a 5-4 win. 

Foil squad captain Liza 
Boutsikaris led the Irish 
with a 3-0 record against 
the Wildcats while fresh­
man Maggie Jordan 
chipped in two wins. 

Destanie Milo and Cari 
McCullough both went 3-0 
against the Wildcats ­
including a 5-2 and 5-4 
wins against Wildcat t\ll­
American Carly Wells. 

All-American Natalia 
Mazur picked up the other 
win against Northwestern. 
Freshman Jessie Filkins 
lost both bouts to 
Northwestern but went 
•12-4 on the weekend. 

"This !sabre] squad is real good," Auriol said. 
•·we have four girls who can rotate and sub and it doesn't really effect the team's performance. It's a very solid squad." 
Overall, Auriol was pleased with the progress shown by the women's team since their 1-3 show­ing at New York in the first weekend. 
"[We are! closer but not where we want to be. We want to qualify everyone for NCM but we have a long way to go," he said. "The women's epee squad is the squad I am most concerned about. But today they showed a lot because the Northwestern women's team is very good and we beat them." 
With Call fencing tlw best of her career for epee, All-American Carnick is the epenist who needs to step up to qualify at the Midwest Regionals in March. 
She has been slowed by an injury all year and is only starting to come back into her 2000 form. This was the best weekend of the year for her as she went 27-4. 
"She is getting better and better," Auriol said. "That is a good sign. 1 am very happy. She's not there yet. She's not as good as last year but prob­ably in a month from now she will be back." 
In addition to the win against the Wildcats, the Irish went undefeated in their nine other matches on the weekend. The Irish also scored a 20-7 win against Air Force in the second toughest match-up of the weekend. 
Notre Dame also defeat­ed eight club teams by wide margins Minnesota (23-4), Michigan (20-7), Lawrence (21-6). Michigan State (24­3), Detroit (23-4), Chicago (23-4), Wayne State (28­9), Cleveland State (21-6) and Purdue (23-4). 
The home meet was also 
a chance for the reserves 
to fence a few bouts. 
Donna Mowchan and 
Mary Beth Williard both 
played productive roles for 
the sabre squad with 13-2 
records for the weekend. 
Michelle Sutton went 10-3 
for foil as the top reserve. 

Ifyou were a Notre 
Dame professor, what would 

r , Walsh Hall Basement 
SPONSORED BY YOUR STUDENT UNION, WALSH HALL, AND SORIN COLLEGE 
I 
I 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 6, 200 l 
ball to pick up hls fifth foul. Murphy hit both free throws. 

Irish 
Humphrey picked up one 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish map out road to success
continued from page 24 
Dame took a 58-54 lead. At the other end, the momen­tum player pulled down a defensive rebound despite getting fouled. 
"In the first half, we felt like they outworked us," Humphrey said. "I just tried to come out and give ener­gy." 
The electricity flowed right to his teammates. as after a 30-second Notre Dame time­out, Carroll dished off anoth­er assist, this time to Murphy, who pivoted around the Red Storm's Donald Emanuel for two of his 34 points. 
"A lot of them were easy shots set up by my team­mates," Murphy said. "You can't do much with a layup." 
Emanuel narrowed the gap to four with a shot over Humphrey. That was the last time St. John's would score until Notre Dame held a 75­56 lead and less than three minutes remained in regula­tion. 
"We knew that we were 
going to score," Graves said. 
"It's just the fact, 'Can we 
guard people? Can we shut 
them down?', and in that 
stretch, we really did that." 
Emanuel fouled out, hit­
ting Humphrey as he 
brought down a rebound, 
and the normally poor free 
throw shooter nailed them 
both. 
He banged in the first shot 
oIT the backboard, eliciting a 
smile from Brey. and 
swished the second, which 
brought a sigh of relief from 
the Notre Dame head coach. 
A travel by St. John's Kyle 

Cuffe turned into another 
Irish scoring opportunity. 
Ingelsby hiked it upcourt on 
the break for one of his nine 
assists. giving it to Murphy, 
who was fouled and hit both 
free throws. 
Murphy blew by two 

defenders underneath the 
hoop on the next possession, 
laying in the reverse layup to 
give Notre Dame a 66-56 
lead. 
The 6-10 junior rebounded 

a Humphrey miss, and Red 
Storm reserve Mohamed 
Diakite knocked Murphy to 
the ground in going for the 
CENTER FOR
In Coachella 
SOCIAL 

Large One
Valley, CA 
CONCERNS 

Topping Pizza
APilgrimage based in the Parish of Nuestra senora de Soledad 

every tuesday 
Information Session 

271-0300
134 Zahm Hall 9:30-10:00 PM 

Applications available at the Center for Center for Social Concerns. Deadline is February 9. 
Call today and 11am -2am sun-thurs 
mention this adll 11am -3am frl-sat 

of his 11 rebounds at the defensive end. He then dished off an assist to Ingelsby, who slapped in a 3­pointer. 
St. John's called another timeout \Vith 4:25 to go, but Humphrey blocked the Red Storm's next shot. Ingelsby then exchanged the favor of a moment before, hitting Humphrey in the paint for a bang-in bucket. Fouled on the shot, Humphrey missed the free throw, but Murphy capped off the Irish explo­sion by tipping in the rebound for a 75-56 Notre Dame lead. 
St. John's managed to score 15 points in the final three minutes to lose by. a more respectable 10-point margin. The win, however -Notre Dame's sixth straight -was in the bag well before Notre Dame allowed the Red Storm any of those baskets. 
While the second half was all spurts and streaks, the first half was back-and-forth. The lead changed hands 14 times in the opening stanza, with seven ties thrown in for good measure. 
"We were beating our­selves," Graves said. "We let 13 offensive rebounds go. They were quicker to the ball, and that's a credit to Coach Jarvis and the kind of ball his teams play." 
Although Notre Dame shot 
50 percent in the first 20 
minutes, St. John's notched 
7-for-11 shooting from 
behind the arc, all on shots 
by freshmen Cook and Willie 
Shaw. In the second period, 
the Irish muzzled both Cook 
and Shaw. holding them to 
three second-half points 
until the final three minutes 
of play. 
Meanwhile, St. John's 
struggled from inside the 
arc, shooting just 31 percent 
on 2-point field goals. 
They missed a number of 
shots in the paint, with post 
players Cuffe, Emanuel and 
Glover going a combined 8­
for-32. 
"Almost every one of those 
shots was inside," Jarvis 
said. "You've got to finish. 
You've got to finish." 
Notre Dame finished the 
job Tuesday. 


Notre Dame cracked the code to superb play in last night's 83-73 gutting of St. John's and steamrolled its record to 6-0 since mid-January. 
Last year, the Irish showed flashes of greatness by upsetting Final Four defend­ers Connect­icut and Ohio State. But the excellence only appeared on occasions, as the Irish didn't yet have the map that would get them to March Madness. 
At the begin­ning of this season, Notre Dame held a road map in hand. one that used new coach Mike Brey and transfer power forward Ryan Humphrey as key landmarks. But the Irish took a fow detours along the way to solid performances. The detours came in the form of home losses to Indiana and Miami (Ohio) and three early-January losses on the road, along with the roadblock offitting the players into their best roles. 
Now the 15-5 Irish are cruising down the freeway. They not only appear to be on their way to a happy Selection Sunday, but possi­bly to a Big East Championship and a run in the NCAA Tournament. 
The cornerstones for the Irish model for success are post players Humphrey and All-American Troy Murphy, who paired up for 50 points and 22 rebounds against St. John's. That included 20 of Notre Dame's points during a 26-2 sec­ond-half run. 
"Humphrey, all ofa sudden. became much more of a factor at both ends of the court," St. John's coach Mike Jarvi'> said. "He was really the difference in the second half." 

Humphrey shook the rafters vvith his presence. 
He got the fans and the Irish play­ers going with play that delivered a knockout punch to St. John's. From an eye-popping slam jam on an assist by sophomore Matt Carroll to 11 rebounds and five blocks, Humphrey was definitely in the house. 
"He's just the missing piece of a puzzle that we had to fill last year," junior guard David Graves said. "This year, we're a complete team." 
But Murphy's mark was just as crucial for Notre Dame. Even beyond his stats, his poise has turned the Iri<;h from a squad that caved under pressure in December to a team that thrives when hit with a challenge. 
"I think he's the best college play­er," Brey said. "We've got him into more ofa defensive presence, and I think that helps him on the offensive end .... Also, what's helped us is his demeanor. He's had a very even­kecled, poised demeanor as a junior." 
Murphy didn't get distracted by 
the chance to show up Jarvis. 
The Red Storm coach ruffied 
Murphy's cool last year by predict­
ing the Irish star wasn't long for 
Notre Dame and would leave for the 
NBA. He revamped that sore by 
playing Murphy a limited amount 
while coaching the U.S. Olympic 
Select team. 
Murphy didn't go out of hls way to 
welcome Jarvis to South Bend, 
avoiding him after the game. But he 
stayed focused on the task at hand 
-defending Notre Dame's lead in 
the West Division of the Big East. 
"We're involved in something a lot 
more important than that -a race 
for a Big East Championship," said 
Murphy, who scored 34. 'This helps us as we march towards that Big East Championship." 


Carroll. Graves, point guard Martin Ingelsby and forward Harold Swanagan fill out the mosaic. Without a weak link among the experienced bunch, the Irish get sewm assists per game from captain Ingelsby, tough defense and great passing from Carroll, and depth and dirtv work trom Graves and Swanagan. 
Even Jarvis began wishing he had some Irish blood in him. Jarvis, who said the first speech he ever heard was by Knute Rockne and pro­claimed himself to be a former Irish football fan, is no longer rooting for the blue and gold. 
'Tm not liking it anymore," Jarvis said, "and rm not sure I'm going to come back here anymore, because I've been treated very, very badly for an Irishman." 
Unfortunately for Jarvis, both Murphy and Humphrey kept the Irish on course to victory, even after they fell behind by 10 early in the second half. 
'That would have been a panic game," Brey said of the early season Irish. "I think the before-Christmas group would go, 'Well, not tonight. It's not going to happen tonight,' and I think a lot of that is Troy and his demeanor."· 
While the Red Storm collapsed 

midway through the second half, 
the Irish stayed together for 40 min­
utes. It's a trait they've perfected in 
the last six games. 
"We have a poise about us," 

Murphy said. "We methodically get 
after people. We're locking teams 
up." 
Besides opponents, the Irish are 

working on locking up an NCAA 
Tournament bid for the first time in 
more than a decade. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Social Concerns Seminar: 
Hispanic Ministry 

5.99 
--·--·----·--­

Tuesday, February 6, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

CLUB SPORTS 
Irish earn 2 weekend victories 
Determined to improve upon 
last year's seventh place 
national ranking, the women's 
water polo team opened with 
two strong showings the past 
two weeks. 
Two weeks ago, the Irish dropped their season opener to defending national champion Michigan State 11-4 in the Spartan Invitational. The Irish also dropped a close 8-6 deci­sion to arch rival Midwest Conference champion Miami OJI, but then rebounded to defeat Purdue 6-3, Ohio State 8-7, and Northwestern 7-1. 
Heturning team stars Lauren Kuzniar, Liz Parolin. and Meg Daclay teamed with freshman standout Allison Gienko to sup­port Captain Lisa Thomas in goal. 
This weekend, the Irish trav­eled to Western Michigan for conference play. In the opener, Lisa Thomas continued to shine in goal, and understudy Angie Gaul contributed a fourth quarter shut out as the Irish clipped the Falcons 15-7. The trio of Kuzniar, Gienko and Parolin each scored a hat trick, while the tandem of Margo Klosterman and Sarah Todnem splashed home two goals apiece. 
The second game saw the Irish rout the Miami B squad 13-1. as the bench emptied and many players garnered playing time. The Irish defeat­ed Western Michigan 15-8 with Jackie Aragon scoring a pair of goals in the game. This set the stage for the tourna­ment championship between two national powers with a history of heated and close competition. 
In the finals, Miami emerged 
triumphant in an 11-10 over­
time thriller that was dead­
locked at 8-8 after regulation. 
Kuzniar's three goals kept the 
Irish close, and Gienko scored 
two goals to force overtime. rn 
overtime, Parolin added a 
third goal to her pair in regu­
lation, forcing sudden death, 
where the Red Hawks pre­
vailed. 
These two clubs will battle 
again in two weeks at Rolfs 
Aquatics in the Irish 
1nvitational, Feb. 16-18. 
Skiing 
A shorthanded Ski Club fin­
ished second in both women's 
events at Schuss Mountain this 
weekend. 
Molly Munsterer took up the banner for the women, win­ning both the slalom and giant slalom. Top 15 performances hy Alanna Lungren, Jennifer Caswell coupled with two great runs by senior Ingrid Anderson raised the team to a second place Slalom finish, behind Michigan State. 
The Spartans captured first in the giant slalom as well, despite all ten Irish women fin­ishing both runs. Lungren, Caswell, and Ellen Block all posted top 15 finishes to join Munsterer in the scoring. 
Mike Ryan continued to improve each week, placing third in the slalom and ninth in the giant slalom. Seniors Ryan Boger and Nick Bauter fin­ished both reruns each day and solid performances by Kevin Kennedy, Suthee Wiri and Keiran Norton contributed to the strongest team showing of the season. 
The Irish will return to Schuss Mountain next week to 

participate in the Divisional 
Championships. 
Michigan and Michigan State 
will provide the stiffest compe­
tition as the Irish women set 
out to defend their title. 
Gymnastics 
The Irish gymnastics club, a 
national power for the past 
several years, returned to the 
mats this weekend at the 
Miami Cup in Oxford, OH. 
Nationally ranked among the top five the past three years, including one national title, the men's team highlights included Pete Asmuth's fifth in the floor exercises, with a score of 8.3. 
Leading the men on this day however was Mickey McGarry, who captured first in the vault 
(8.7), second in the rings (7 .1), third in the parallel bars (6.6), fifth in the high bar (5.8), and third All-Around (41.8). 
The men finished third in a strong field, with a team score oflll.7. 
The women had an equally impressive opening, as they also finished third with a team score of 125.9. Erin Henry's 
8. 75 placed second in the vault for the Irish. The day belonged, however, to Emily Smith who earned fist place in the All-Around. 
Strong performances on the vault (8.55), uneven bars (8.4), and balance beam (8.55) claimed the individual title for Smith. 
A top ten team each of the past three years, including a fifth place national ranking last year, the women also fin­ished third in a very strong field at Miami. 
The teams will next compete in two weeks at the Purdue Invitational. 
Come listen to the candidates discuss their platforms at the annual 
Student Body President Candidates' Debate 
Wednesday February 7 at 7:30 PM in the Library Auditorium 
HOCKEY 

Buckeyes sweep Irish as CCHA hopes fade 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 
With hopes of making the CCHA playoffs starting to fade away, the Notre Dame hockey team took the ice this past weekend against the Oh.io State Buckeyes in Columbus. 
As the season winds down, the Irish know that they need to win some games to climb back into the playoff picture. Unfortunately, the necessary wins were not to come this past weekend. Ohio State swept the weekend series, winning 5-2 on Friday night, and 5-3 on Saturday night. When Ohio State visited the Joyce Center two weeks ago, it was the freshmen who propelled 

and three assists to contribute four points to the victory. 
Both games this weekend were played in goal by Tony Zasowski. The sophomore has been less than stellar in posting a 3-11-2 mark for Notre Dame this year. Stability and consistency has been lacking with the goaltending. The entire year has been a rotation between junior Jeremiah Kimento, senior Kyle Kolquist and Zasowski. Now, with Zasowski taking both losses this weekend. Coach Dave Poulin was unsure as to who would end up in the net for Notre Dame thL-; weekend. 
"To be honest with you, I don't know who I will go with this weekend," Poulin said. 
Before the 

the Buckeyes to weekend s·eries,
"We felt like we out­
victory. This Notre Dame stood 
past weekend played [Ohio State] on 2 points out of the 
saw more of the Saturday. Two oftheir last playoff spot. same. Now they have
goals were
Ohio State's fallen to four freshmen score questionable." points back. That early in Friday doesn't mean, night' s game, however, that the
Ryan Dolder
building a 3-0 Irish playoff
captain
lead midway hopes are com-
through the sec­ond period. Freshmen Dave Steckel and RJ Umberger each had a goal and Junior Mike McCormick chipped in for the lead. In contrast, the sole bright spot for the Irish was Dan Carlson's two goals. 
"Dan Carlson played great this weekend," said Notre Dame head coach Dave Poulin. "He was defi­nitely the premier performer for us." 
Saturday's game was mostly more of the same, though the Irish felt that they played better, and were one or two bounces away from tying the game. "We felt like we outplayed (Ohio State) on Saturday." Irish captain Ryan Dolder said. "Two of their goals were questionable." 
Umberger continued to wow for the Buckeyes, putting up a goal 
Center Box Office, or charge by phone 
0-)37-641 
online@ www.MorrisCenter.org 

pletely out of reach just yet. Bowling Green swept Lake Superior State this past weekend. This means that Bowling Green is currently hold­ing the last playoff spot. Notre Dame plays the Falcons this weekend at home. If the Irish should sweep Bowling Green, then they would jump into the last playoff spot, and hold the tiebreaker. 
"We basically have to sweep the next two series' to keep the play­off hopes alive," said Dolder. "That means we have to be at the top of our game." 
That is a huge proposition for a team that hasn't swept a series all year. But the Irish know exactly what they have to do in the com­ing weeks. 
"It's do or die time," said Dolder. 
SUNDAY FEBRUARY 11 TH 
7:30 PM 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 6, 2001 
MEN'S FENCING 
Irish cruise to 36-01atch win streak at Notre Da111e Open 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
The men's fencing team stretched its undefeated streak to 36 matches with 11 wins at this weekend's Notre Dame Open. 
"I think we kicked everyone's butt," junior All-American Gabor Szelle said. "I think we did what we were supposed to do." 
The Irish rolled to 21-6 wins against Lawrence, Detroit, Chicago and Purdue, 20-7 wins against Michigan. Michigan State and Air Force, a 22-5 win against Cleveland State and a 16-11 win against Northwestern. 
"Sabre squad is probably the best in the country. The foil squad is also very solid. Epee, I think they can get better." head coach Yves Auriol said about his team's progress. 
The wins came mostly against club teams but some individual fencers presented problems for the Irish. Wayne State junior Jakub Krochmalski, who finished second at last year's NCCAs to Szelle, beat Andre Crompton and Matt Fabricant but Szelle picked up a 5-2 win. 
"I was very happy with that 
because the last time we fenced a 
five-touch bout, I lost to him so I 
wanted to win this week," the 2000 
sabre champion said. 
Mental errors also cost the Irish 
at times. All-American Jan Viviani 
dropped a bout against Lawrence. 
"I don't think I was concentrating 
as much as I should have," Viviani 
said about his loss to Adam Lake. 
f! 
.3 
.,C 
u 
u 
<t: 
8 
N 
"Last match of the day, last bout of the day, I think I just blew it." 
Despite the occasional miscues, Viviani, who went 20-1, deemed the weekend a success. 
"A lot of the walk-ons got to fence, a lot of the reserves got to fence, it was a good weekend over­all," he said. 
The walk-ons fenced the majority of the bouts against most of the schools. Once the starters won the five bouts needed to win the match, the reserves subbed in and finished the match. Against Northwestern, however, the reserves started the bouts and that move almost came back to haunt the Irish as the Wildcats jumped out to a 4-3 lead before the starters returned and won the last two bouts. 
"We made some mistakes there," Szelle said. 
Most of the meet, however, was a chance for the Irish to pad their stats. Junior foilist Steve Mautone became the 51st man to reach 100 wins in his career. Mautone went 13-1 on the weekend. 
Foil captain Ozren Debic posted 
an undefeated weekend to up his 
season record to 29-1 while Forest 
Walton went 13-1 in epee. 

In addition to Viviani's 20-1 week­
end, Brian Casas went 14-6 and 
also picked up his 100th career win. 
Reserve Matt Castellan con­
tributed a 10-2 record for the foil 
team while sabreman Matthew 
Peters went 7-3. 

The Irish return to action next 
weekend when they travel to Duke 
to face Stanford, Air Force, Ohio 
State, North Carolina and the Blue 
Devils. 



Be there. 

Mark your calendars... Accenture Summer Internship Session Wednesday, February 7 from 7:00 p.m. -8:30 p.m. 126 DeBartolo Hall. Pizza and soda provided. 
At Accenture we have a unique vantage new and exciting challenges, with ever as we bring innovations to improve the way point between what is and what will be. As expanding career options. With our flexible, the world works and lives. 
we build a completely new network of collaborative and diverse working For those who want to create the future, businesses that will influence the shape of environment, there has never been a better. now it gets interesting. Be there. the new economy, our employees are finding time to be part of our dynamic global force 
Visit campusconnection.accenture.com 
> 

• Consulting • Technology• Outsourcing • Alliances • Venture Capital 
accenture 
Accenture was formerly known as Andersen Consulting 

---------------------·· ------~ 
Tuesday, February 6, 200 I The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TYLER

TOM KEELEY 
THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Recording 63 Bad habit, so to 1 Thin fastener studio tasks speak 5Pro_ 36 Press for 64 Gross minus 
(perfunctorily) payment net, to a trucker 10 Sonogram area 37 Photograph 65 Check endorser 14 Handed-down ruiner, perhaps 66 E.P.A. concern: 
history 41 Javits Center Abbr. 15 Structural architect 67 Warts and all member 42 Out of port 68 Grps. HI Genesis 44 Work on a doily 69 Monthly expense shepherd 45 Slangy farewell 17 Letters on a 47 Still more DOWN B-52 60-Across 1 Astigmatic's view 18 Some 60-Across 2 Painter Bonheur 
51 "The Ten 

20 "Gargantua and Commandments" 3 Swift steed Pantagruel" director 4 Bests author 
54 Seed cover 5 Barber of opera22 Aquarium fish 
55 "The Compleat &Woodwind 

23 Haughtiness Angler" writer player 
24 Lunar Walton 7 Ency. and diet. 
disappearance 56 Like a certain 8_de mer 28 More 60-Across musical scale 11 Actress 30Biscotto 60 Theme (and Brenneman 
flavoring genre) of this 10 Roused 31 Compass doodle puzzle 11 Passing 
-------------remarks?
12 Downing Street

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
distance 
13 Sound from a ~r+:-:+=-4 flock !-..+~~~ 19 Home to a 
muon or pion 21 Media lawyer's concern 24 Chicago exchange, for short 

t:::-t.:1r.rt•=t-::-t-:*-:-t:-:-_._,.,:+.::+:~:-t 25 Whale of a film? 26 Arp's art 27 Albatross, 
figuratively 28 Supreme Court 
count ,.;+~:+i.-4 29 Waste maker .;:.i.~::;.i.;;.i 33 _ snuff 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-----------------------------------------------~-------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­
, nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Puzzlo by Gene Nftmln 
34 •-here long?' 35 Part of an 
equine pedigree 38 List abbr. 39 Where the laity 
sits 40 Braid of hair 43 Wanted-poster 
items 46 Here, there and 
everywhere 48 Fraternal fellows 49 Initial, as a 
voyage 50 Clears off 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City--------'---State ____ Zip______ 
51 Formal 57 Riviera city pronouncements 
58 Clicked image 52 Pound and 59 Boston player, 
Coman 
for short 
53 Native New 61 New Deal org.Zealander 
62 Western treaty 56 Prohibitionists grp. 
Answers lo any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone; 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jeanne Moreau, Princess Caroline, Rutger Hauer, Richard D. Anderson, Geoff Wig­dor, Tiffani-Amber lruessen, Earl Falconer 
Happy Birthday: It's time to turn things around by making the necessary changes. You've been on the fence for too long, so make your move, You'll need to be versatile if you want to get ahead. The more adaptable you are, the better. Keep your com­ments to yourself and work hard to ensure that you reach your goals. Your numbers: 9, 12, 16, 22, 25,37 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Domestic purchases will be prof­itable today. You should be look­ing into real estate buys or a resi­dential move. Listen to your friends. Their advice will be quite valuable. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't overreact or allow your temper to explode. Work quietly behind the scenes, paying special attention to detail. Your lover may take drastic measures to get your attention. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You should not give to organiza­tions today. You are likely to donate too much or give too much of your time. Investments will not be as profitable as they appear. Take a closer look. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can help children with their problems. Financial investments pertinent to your home will be lucrative. Be careful when sign­ing contracts or formulating agreements. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will get into arguments with friends or relatives today. Try hard not to instigate unnecessary friction with loved ones. Your own irritability will be largely at 

Birthday Baby: You take the lead and stay there. You're quick to evaluate and to make your move. Your strong vision of the way things are supposed to be gives you confidence in yourself. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at utroadvice.com, eugenia.last.com, astromate.com,) 
0 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 

fault. Avoid travel if possible. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): If 
you bend over backward to help 
friends in need, you will enhance 
your reputation. Your ability to 
look at situations logically will 
allow you to make constructive 
suggestions.00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): V1Si­
tors may drop by, resulting in 
friction between you and your 
mate. Try hard to keep your calm, 
or the silent treatment will be 
sure to follow. Don't take on too 
many projects. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Don't spend too much on travel 
or friends. Opportunities to meet 
new and exciting individuals will 
develop through educational 
pursuits. Sign up for lectures or 
courses. 0000 . 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Unexpected visitors will be a welcome sight. You can make favorable changes in your domestic scene. Take care of all those chores that have been building up. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Instant romance will not be lasting. Take precautions if you wish to spare your heart. Your concern for older family mem­bers and those who need help will enhance your reputation. 
000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You should spend time with those who can help lift your depression. You need intellectual interaction. Don't let employers interfere with your plans. They may try to take credit for your efforts. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Concentrate on your hobbies. Don't let anyone take advantage of your generosity. You will expe­rience financial loss if you are ~less with your wallet or your investments. 000 
Fox TROT 
TODAY'S lUl'K:H 

HoL'Y cow! 
ACTUALLY ~ESEMBLES 

CAN THIS SE?! 
~EAL FooD! 
I

I 
BILL AMEND  
SI.ICED TURICE'Y... PEAS ANO CARROTS•.. CHocolATE PUDDING•••  A FIRST! CONGRATU­lATtoi"olS! I  THAl'-ll<S. ENJ'OY YOUR SPAGHETTI.  





Tracking Saint Mary's decision 
Columnist Katie McVoy defends the athletic department's decision to cut the Belles' track and field program. 
PORTS 
page 19 

O
THE 
page 24 BSERVER 
Tuesday, February 6, 2001 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Daine storms past St. John's with 83-73 win 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associare Sports Editor 
Notre Dame was losing the battle of the boards. struggling to hold its own in a brawl where the fouls weren't getting called. 
Then the blue and gold got their Irish up. Notre Dame (15-5, 7-2 Big East} showed St. John's (12-9, 6-4) whose house it was, man­handling the Red Stonn ·with a 26-2 run that left no question which was the better squad as Notre Dame won 83-73. 
Early on, the two teams jawed back and forth, exchanging elbows and shoves, with tempers ready to explode. Several fouls called on Notre 
Dame players and See Also non-calls against St. John's drew roars of "Irish map out road to 
boos from the Jovce success" Center crowd. · "It was a rough page 20 game," Irish guard David Graves said. "They're hard-nosed and gritty." After falling behind by as many as 10 early in the second half, the Irish began creeping closer and closer to the Red Storm. First came a jumper by senior captain Martin Ingelsby, then a one-handed tip-in by All-American Troy Murphy, two free throws by Matt Carroll ·and a top-of-the-key 3-point­er by Graves. With Notre Dame trailing 52-49, Ingelsby took on lightning-quick Omar Cook, the freshman point gu·ard who averages 16 points and a nation-high 9.1 assists per game. lngelsby just missed the steal, step­ping out of bounds, but he got the crowd riled up. The normally calm and collected point guard fluttered his hands to ask for some noise, and teammates Carroll and Graves pumped their hands to ignite the fans. "Our fans really helped us tonight," said 
Irish coach Mike Brey. "I thought when we were down five or six in the second half, they started helping us then, not just when we tied it or got it close or took the lead. 
But it was only after two Anthony Glover free throws gave St. John's a 54-49 lead that Notre Dame really responded. 
With 10 minutes, 27 seconds to play, Carroll sent the ball in to Murphy for a dunk. At the other end, junior power forward Ryan Humphrey recorded one of his five blocks to return possession to Notre Dame, The power play kicked oil' the longest and most crowd­pleasing spurt of Irish dominance seen since the current players were in playpens. 
"They're doing something right now that we are not ready to do," Red Storm coach Mike Jarvis said, "and that i<; just playing for 40 minutes. I don't think it was as much
,y 

what they did. I think it was more what we didn't do." 
St. John's couldn't stop Carroll, as the 3­point specialist hit his only trey in the game. The game tied at 54, the three Irish guards again raised their hands to the crowd to make some noise. · 
Graves swiped the ball from the Red Storm. and on. the fast break, Carroll launched it to Humphrey. The 6-foot-8 transfer caught the ba!Un midair and jammed it through the hoop two-handed. 
"Ryan's a guy who can make plays like that," Brey said. "It was a big momentum play for us. It really got us going." 
This time, no one had to ask the crowd for excitement. The whole arena was on its feet, and the players had grins larger than Alice in Wonderland's Cheshire Cat on their faces. St. John's quickly called a timeout, hoping to stop the Notre Dame run at seven, but it would never regain the lead. 
St. John's threw the ball out of bounds on its next possession, and Humphrey kept the good times rolling. He hit a jumper off the dribble, then thumped his chest as Notre 
see IRISH/page 20 


WOMEN'S FENCING 
Irish dominate hollle turf with win against Midwest rivals 
against Northwestern." against the Wildcats after going
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
The win was the second 0-3 last weekend. 
Sports Writer 
straight against Northwestern The weekend was a complete for the Irish as they upset the success for the epee squad,Me.agan Call is not someone Wildcats 14-13 last weekend in according to DeMaio as the you want to make angry. Evanston. epeeists also redeeme_d them­
The sophomore All-American "I wasn't too happy with the selves with a 5-4 win againstbounced back from a 1-2 record performance last week," head Wayne State after falling to the against Air Force to go 3-0 coach Yves Auriol said about the Warriors in the semifinals of the against improvement since last week. "I 2000 Midwest Regional North­think this week we put every­Championships.
See Also 

western thing together. I think the more "I am so happy with the whole 
and lead "Irish cruise to 36-we are fencing the better we get weekend," epee captain DeMaio 
the Irish now as the season goes on. I said. "We finally pulled it all
match win streak at
to a think we are going to get even together." do mi -Notre Dame Open" better." ' In addition to the turnaround nating Call improved upon a 1-2 by the epee squad. both the
page22

1 7 -1 0 record against Northwestern sabre squad and the foil squad w i n last weekend and helped the defeated their Northwestern against epee squad redeem their 8-1 counterparts.
their chief Midwest rivals. 
loss to Northwestern last week Sabre dominated Northwest­
"I lost two to Air Force and with a 5-4 victory this weekend. ern winning 7 -2 while foil eked got really, really pissed off,"Call Kirn DeMaio and Anna Carnick said. "Then I did pretty well both picked up one win each see FENCING/page 19 
vs. Virginia Tech 

vs Pittsburgh vs. Duke Friday, 4 p.m. 
Wednesday, 7 p.m. Saturday, noon
SPORTS Cl I) 
ATA Track and Field 
vs. Hope vs. Bowling Green 
at Cannon IV
we• 

Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. .~ Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
Indianapolis
GLANCE 
Friday, 5:30 p.m. 









