-------------1 
Sex and the College
PARTLY 
Thursday

CLOUDY 
Following controversy last year surrounding "The Vagina Monologues," Saint Mary's students and administrators meet to discuss sexuality issues. 
SEPTEMBER 20, 

HIGH 71° 
News . page 9 
2001

LOW 55° 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 18 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
. 





Panel weighs academic freedom issues 
. SMC grad, ACLU lawyer talks about role of free speech 
By COURTNEY BOYLE 
News Writer 
Academic freedom is a neces­sary part of a college environ­ment, according to several pan­elists at a Saint Mary's symposium Wednesday night. Students and faculty must be able to pursue many different ideas without per­secution from the College. At the same time, however, the College must be able to distance itself from some of the ideas under investigation. 
"To be a higher education it has to foster, ferment and promote discussion, character must be made evident to make the case for it [academic freedom]," chemistry professor Dorthy FeigJ said. "Administration must make clear the ideas we explore and ideas presented on this campus are not necessarily those ofthe College." 
A T-shirt printed by the class of 2002 and tl1e performance of lhc "Vagina Monologues" on campus last year brought the issue of aca­demic freedom at Saint Mary's to the forefront. The College did not want to appear to endorse ideas it deemed offensive while students wanted the right to express them­selves freely. 
As a private college, Saint Mary's is not bound by the First Amendment, but Barbara O'Toole, an alumna and lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union said private universities should still hold fast to the ideas of 

From feft, student body president Michelle Nagle, English profes­sor Tom Bonnell and chemistry professor Dorothy Feig! participat­ed in Wednesday's symposium on academic freedom. 
the First Amendment. citizens from the government but "The First Amendment protects not from private institutions," 
Officials begin ND library renovations 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Assistant News Editor 
To prepare for a two-year, $8-million renovation of the basement of Hesburgh Library, vending machines were moved this week from the basement's "pit" into a lounge on the first floor, the card cat­alog was put into storage and staff from 253 basement rooms were moved into temporary office space, many on the second floor. 
According to library renovation coor­dinator Marsha Stevenson, the renova­tion is tentatively scheduled to be com­pleted in the summer of 2003. The new basement will contain study space for students, a service desk staffed the same hours as the reference desk, the special collections department and addi­tional undetermined library materials. 
The basement atmosphere will also be improved. Light wells are being installed to allow outside light into the basement. To optimize the amount of space available, the library will use movable shelving, a new system that eliminates the need for an aisle between each shelf. 
"The rows of shelves are on rails, and you can move them back and forth, so you can get rid of most of the aisles, space that no one is using. It's real easy to move the shelves -it takes no mus­cle," said Stevenson 
When planning for the renovations began, library officials assumed that additional space would be provided to temporarily house workers, but this turned out not to be the case. 
"The University didn't have anywhere for them to go, so we had to deal with it in our own walls and we had to take some student reader spaceEif I could have done anything but take reader spaces, I would have [but that wasn't a possibility]," said Stevenson. 
Over the summer, tables and cubicles were removed from the second floor 

U2 ticket sales start today at 3 
Observer Staff Report 
Student ticket sales for the much­
anticipated Oct. 10 concert by the Irish 
rock band U2 begin today at 3 p.m. 
with a three-part lottery system. 
Between 3 to 4 p.m. today, Notre 
Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross 
College students who intend to pur­
chase tickets must go to Gate 10 of the 
Joyce Center Box Office to obtain an 
"entitlement ticket." 
The ticket entitles students to a posi­tion in the 4 p.m. lineup, when University security personnel will place all students with entitlement tickets in one of three color-coded lines. Once in line. students v-.ill draw a number for their places in the selling line. 
From 6 to 8· p.m.. or while tickets 
last, students can purchase tickets at 
the box office. 
Prices are $46 for standing-floor and some reserved bleacher seats and $86 for front-stage reserved seats. 
There are a limited number of $46 
tickets available. and students are 
encouraged to bring $86 to the sales 
event, according to University officials. 
Each student may purchase up to 
two tickets as long the buyer presents 
two valid student identification cards. 
Although students can today buy tick­ets before the general public, they will not be the first to purchase admission to the concert. 
On Wednesday, U2.com, the band's official fan-run Web site. announced to members that they could buy pre-sale 
see TICKETS/page 4 


and temporary office space was con­structed to house displaced staff mem­b~rs, mostly from the systems depart­
ment. To minimize the amount of study see LIBRARY/page 8 
O'Toole said. "Saint Mary's College and the First Amendment are two of my favorite institutions and I would like them to get them to know each other better." 
O'Toole also pointed out that while an idea to one member of the community may not be offen­sive it may offend someone else. According to English professor Tom Bonnell. "We must force our­selves to pay attention to those ideas that may be offensive." 
The standard by which to judge what is and is not offensive has changed through the years, according to humanistic studies professor Gail Mandell. 
"Ideas change us from within, retired nuns used to sit in the back of the classroom knitting to make sure nothing toward was 
see FREEDOM/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

To be or not to be 
"To be or not to be: that is the question." 
It's one of the most well-known and well-used lines in theatre, taken from Shakespeare's "Hamlet." But there's the subsequent question, one that lingers when theatre becomes the topic: 
To be or not to be an actor. 

For those of you that are unaware, Notre Dame has a very active theatre department. From watching The Actors 
From the London Stage per­form Shakespeare's "A Midsummer Night's Dream" this fall to Bertold Brecht's "The Life of Galileo" in the spring, we'll have a very theatre-filled experience. That is, if we choose to make it so. 


All students received the­

Angela Campos
atre ticket application allow­
ing them to purchase dis­
counted theatre tickets io all 

Lab Tech 
mainstage performances. In 
addition to ''A Midsummer 

Night's Dream" and 'The Life of Gailleo" other 
mainstage plays to grace Washington Hall's stage 
will include How the Other Half Loves by Alan 
Ayckbourn, Antigone by Sophocles, .and Macbeth 
(also known as the Scottish Play} by Shakespeare. 
But that's not all. 

"What, a play toward! I'll be an auditor; an actor too, perhaps. ifl see cause," says Puck from "A Midsummer Night's Dream." No truer words could be spoke. There are many, many more opportunities to be bring theatre into your life here at Notre Dame. 
For starters, we have five student theatre groups on-campus. Already having held auditions for its fall production, The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company will perform a rendition of Shakespeare's "Othello" later this semester. Pasquerilla East Musical Company will perform Damn Yankees in February. Last year, Farley Hall Players performed "Chance at Love," written, composed and directed by seniors Tommy Curtin and Ryan Cunningham. "Chance at Love" went on tour this summer across the United States. The St. Edward's Hall Players and Notre Dame Student Players also put on plays during the school year. 
And there's more. 

You have the theatre classes which put on per­formances in the Lab theatre on the third floor of Washington Hall. They range from one-person shows to directing finals. You find fliers for them posted in LaFortune and O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
So audition for a play, help build the set. work as stage crew or just go and watch. Okay, so you're probably thinking "Why the pitch for theatre?" 
My freshman year, I took a class the Theatre department. FIT105 Introduction to Theatre. In that class, I had the opportunity to do just about everything. I ushered at plays. worked in the cos­tume and scene shops, worked as stage crew, and read a lot of really diverse plays. We read "The Tempest," "Angels in America," "School for Scandal" and more. We watched a professional performance of"The Angels' Cradle." This was before we had Actors from the London Stage come each semester and the Summer Shakespeare Program, which started in the sum­mer of 2000. 
So, I guess you could say I tried it and got hooked. I have a lot of friends in theatre, both in the Theatre department and participating in the student clubs. I've seen a lot of plays -and I love what I've seen. 
I love the theatre. "My fate cries out. .. Go on; I'll follow thee." (Hamlet to Ghost, "Hamlet") 
Contact Angela Campos at campos.2@nd.edu The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and S[fi,e:. for the:: highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, rccogni:u: that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 
The Obse,:vcr (USPS 599 2-4000) i• published Monday duough F,iday cxcq,1 during exam and vacatio" periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Preis. All reproduction rights :ue reserved. 
The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, September 20, 2001 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Recital: Modern dance  . Pep Rally: Students  . Booksigning: Torn  . Lecture: "Learning to  
performance, 7;30 p.m.,  enter through Gate 9, 6:30  Coyne, 11 a.m.. Hammes  Meditate," 7 p.m.,  
O'Laughlin Auditorium  p.m., Joyce Center Arena  Notre Dame Bookstore.  Stapleton Lounge in Le  
. Lecture: "Christains and  . Concert: "Totally  . Concert: Marching  Mans Hall  
Politics," 4 p.m., Hesburgh  Telemann, 7:30 p.m.,  band, Noon, steps of Bond  . Concert: Christian  
Center for International  Welsh Parlor, Haggar  Hall  Ringendahl, organ, 8 p.m.,  
Studies  College Center  Basilica of the Sacred  
Heart  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 


University of Utah begins planning for Olympics 
SALT LI\KE CITY es that begin March 18. It is also
"We want to make it easy for 
Diversity is the buzzword for a lot of increasing off-campus, night and sum­
students to participate in 
things. Academic policies across the mer course offerings, he said. University of Utah for the Olympics can the Olympics and not "We want to make it easy for stu­join the list. interfere with their progress dents to participate in the Olympics 
Academic advisers met Tuesday and not interfere with their progress
toward graduation." 
afternoon in the Marriott Library to toward graduation," Reynolds said. learn about mitigating the Olympics' Fields which require daily study, impact on students' studies. Steve Reynolds particularly math and languages, will 
In the face of a three-week break, be hardest hit when classes stop from
associate dean
decreased parking and other compli­Feb. 2 to the 26, Francis said. _ cations brought by the Olympics, cre­Some solutions may be onlinc. The ative solutions need to be found, math department recently began using according to John Francis, the associ­by the Olympics than larger ones, he an Internet-based program, which ate vice president for undergraduate told The Daily Utah Chronicle. allows students to access and submit 
The College of Social and Behavioral
studies academic affairs. answers to homework problems. The And different degrees have different Science is the largest on campus, student finds out immediately if their philosophies of teaching, and therefore granting one-third of all bachelor's answer was correct. Hugo Rossi, a 
degrees, according to Steve Reynolds,
different strategies. professor of' mathematics, said he Smaller, tightly focused programs its associate dean. intends to use this program to keep
Anticipating February, the college
like dance or law keep closer tabs on coursework fresh on students' minds their students and will be less affected has assembled "second session" cours-during the break. 
SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY 
UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA 


Grad lived in complex with terrorist 
Pakistani student attacked 
A University of Oklahoma student was suspended

San Diego's connection to last week's terrorists have 
Monday after he was involved in an attack on an interna­

hit home for a lot of people in the city, but for recent San 
tional student from Pakistan on Sunday morning.

Diego State University graduate John Goodman it hits 
Muhammad Yaseen Haider, president of the Pakistan

even closer. Goodman lives in the Parkwood Apartments 
Student Association, said he was attacked by three men

in Clairemont -the same complex that suspected ter­
around 2 a.m. Sunday in a convenience store parking lot 

rorists Nawaf Alhamzi, Khalid Al-Midhar and Hani 
outside his workplace on 12th Avenue. The men kicked,

Hanjoor are believed to have lived in a few months 
pushed, beat and verbally abused Haider, he said. 'The

before the attack. All three men were identified by the 
men said, 'Get out of our country,"' Haider said. When

FBI last week as being the suspected hijackers who 
Haider Lried to defend himself and reached for his

crashed an American Airlines plane into the Pentagon 
attackers they told him '"Don't touch Americans again,"' 

last Tuesday. Two other planes crashed into and leveled 
Haider said. !Iis attackers kept calling Haider "foreign­

the World Trade Center in New York and another 
er," he said. Ile said the driver of the car tried to run him

crashed in Pennsylvania. "I couldn't believe it when I 
over after the attack. Haider suspects that the assault is

found out," Goodman said. "My neighbor told me and I 
related to hatred against people of Middle Eastern decent 

thought people were pulling my leg." But, when 
following Tuesday's terrorist attacks. Haider's attackers

Goodman looked outside last Thursday, he believed. 
lled the scene but a witness called the police and report­

"There were police and FBI and news crews every­
ed the suspect's license tag number. Haider suffered

where," he said. Goodman has lived in the complex since 
from bruises, partial loss of hearing and back pain as a

March. He graduated from San Diego State last May with 
result of the attack, he said. 

a degree in television, film and new media. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high tempemtures 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon,Thursday, Sept. 20. 
/ 


.&..A. .............
.............. 

a 2001 A.ccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 

..~t.:' :'!'i.:"::·, Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via As.sor.1•ted Prass 
Atlanta 80 66 Las Vegas 93 76 Portland 70 53 Baltimore 76 64 Memphis 80 62 Sacramento 85 56 Boston 70 58 Milwaukee 67 56 St. Louis 74 62


Y,~,~p6.fr:Qi) ~ u 
Chicago 66 55 New Yolk 70 65 Tampa 83 68 Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Houston 88 70 Philadelphia 75 60 Washington, DC 78 63 
Via Aslwctat8(/ Preas Gn,phic8NBI 

Thursday, September 20, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Panelists to discuss terrorism 
Special 10 The Observer 
"After September 11: Christian and Muslim Holv Wars." the second in aseries of panels examining last week's terrorist acts, has been rescheduled for tonight at 7:30 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo Hall at Notre Dame. 
The discussion, which originally was scheduled for Tuesday, is sponsored by Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for lnternational Peace Studies and Kellogg Institute for International Studies and is free and open to all faculty, staff and stu­de1its. 
The event will feature brief presentation,s by six panelists representing various fields: Scott Appleby, director of the Kroc Institute; Michael Baxter, assistant profes­sor of theology; William Cavanaugh, visiting fel­low of the Kellogg Institute; Patrick Gaffney, associate professor of anthropology; Cynthia Mahmood, associate pro­fcssor of anthropology; and Rashied Omar, assis­tant professional special­ist for the Kroc Institute. 
Topics addressed will include the dynamics of religious extremism, cul­tural and religious stereotyping, and the view of the current crisis from the perspective of an Islamic religious scholar who helped lead the resistance to apartheid in South Africa. 
An audience discussion session will follow the presentations. 


Weekend plays canceled 
Speci..l to The Obser,er 
Performances of "A Midsummer Night's Dream" by Actors from the London Stage, originally scheduled at. the University of Notre Dame this weekend, has been rescheduled for Nov. 8-10 (Thursday-Saturday) at South Bend's Riley High School. 
The Department of Film, Television, and Theatre was to have presented performances of the show this Thursday, Friday and Saturday in Washington Hall. Travel disruption in the wake of last Tuesday's terrorist attacks in the United States delayed the arrival of the traveling Shakespeare troupe, according to Richard Donnelly, director of theatre. 
Information will be forthcoming about purchasing tickets for the per­formances and for redeeming and exchanging tickets that were to have been used at this weekends perfor­mances. 
Further information is available by contacting Tom Barkes, Washington Hall manager, at (219) 631-5956 or, by e-mail at barkes.l@nd.edu 

Jefferson, attorney file affirmative defense 
. ND football player responds to charges alleged in April civil suit 
By MYRA McGRIFF Saint Mary's Editor 
An Irish defensive back and his attorney filed answer and affirmative defenses last Friday in response to a civil suit filed against him April 3 by an unnamed plantiff. 
A complaint for damages filed by Jane Doe's attorney alleges that Clifford Jefferson sexually assaulted her in late March and seeks damages stemming from the assualt. 
"The actions of Clifford E. Jefferson, Jr. constitute battery in that he inten­tionally touched Jane Doe in a rude, insolent and/or angry manner. The actions of the Clifford Jefferson, Jr. constitute assault in that he intention­ally committed an act which placed Jane Doe in fear. As a result of the action of Clifford Jefferson, Jr., Jane Doe experienced physical pain, suf­fers post traumatic stress, incurred medical bills and other harm," the complaint stated. 
Until last Friday, Jefferson had not responded to the charges. Court documents show Jefferson was served a court summons on April 
5. On April 22, Jefferson's attorney William Stanley filed a motion for "enlargement of time within which to file responsive pleading." 
Although the motion was granted on April 29, no other entries are made in the court information until July 16. 
Not all details transpiring during April 29 and July 16 are clear, but according to the court data, Stanley filed a motion to "withdraw as coun­sel." 
Stanley told Tho Observer that he was retained for a criminal case, not a civil case. Since the complaint for damages was a civil matter, he with­drew from the case, "in order to pro­tect client's interest until he obtained an attorney who deals with civil cases." 
On July 31 that motion was granted. 
However, between July 31 and the plaintiffs attorney filed a motion for default judgment. For an attorney to take such action, the party in ques­tion has to be non-responsive to court dates and or deadlines, according to Dinah Shelton, a Notre Dame law pro­fessor. 
"Who ever is on tho other side has not met the appropriate deadlines and hasn't shown up," Shelton said. 
The hearing to consider the motion of default judgment was set for Sept.
6. . On Sept. 6, Jefferson retained new counsel, attorney George Herendeen. Jefferson and his attorney filed for an extension to file a response to the original complaint. Judge Jenny Manier ordered Jefferson to file a response within 10 days of Sept. 6. On Sept. 14, Jefferson and his attor­ney submitted his response in the answer and affirmative defenses. 
Herendeen refused comment on the case when contacted Sept. 6. 
Contact Myra McGriff at mcgrO l 8 l@saintmarys.edu 




MD AFTER FIVE 


Thursdai,, Sept. 20 
FridaLJ, Sept. 21 
SaturdaLJ, Sept. 22 
7:00 p.m. ND Cinema, The Dish 
7:00 p.m. Women's Soccer vs. 
6:00 p.m. Women's Volleyball vs. Hesburgh Library Auditorium*' 
Villanova, Alumni Field Syracuse, Joyce Arena 
7:00 p.m. Dillon Football Pep Rally, 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Bridget Jones's 
7:30 p.m. Men's Soccer vs. Rutgers, North Quad 
Diary and Save the Last Dance, 
Alumni Field 
7:30 p.m. Lumpia/Karaoke Night, 
De Bartolo 101 and 155** 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Bridget Jones's Lewis Hall Basement 
8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Lounge, 
Diary and Save the Last Dance, 
7:30 p.m. Lecture: "After September Coleman Morse Center DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
11 : Christian and Muslim Holy 
8:00 p.m. Mini-Golf Outing, Meet at 
9:22 p.m. Top Gun on the big screen, Wars," DeBartolo 101 
library Circle* North Quad, rain location Stepan 

8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop In La­
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express 
10:00 p.m. -1 :00 a.m Open Karaoke crosse, Rolfs 
Pool Room open, free billiards, 
in the Huddle, LaFortune Student 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express 
Center Pool Room open, free billiards, 
laFortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Bonfire, Holy 
10:00 p.m. Movies: Bridget Jones's laFortune Student Center 
Cross Hill · 
Diary and Save the Last Dance, 
9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, laFortune 9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: 
DeBartolo 101 and 155* Student Center Huddle 
Keychains, Dooley Room, 
9:00 p.m. Class of 2004 Bonfire, Holy 
LaFortune Student Center 
This ad is published by the Student 
Cross Hill 

10:00 p.m. Movies: Bridget Jones's 
Activities Office. Programs subject to 
10:00 p.m. Movies: Bridget Jones's Diary and Save the Last Dance, 
change without notice. 
Diary and Save the Last Dance, 
DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
* All programs are free to ND students 
10:00 p.m. -1:OO a.m. Teen Divas vs.
De Bartolo 101 and 155* 
unless marked by an *.
Boy Bands 90's dance, LaFortune

FridaLJ, September 21 
Student Center Ballroom 
6:30 p.m. Football Pep Rally, Joyce 
11 :00 p.m. Tournament Fridays, 
Center. Doors open at 5:30 p.m. 
Bingo, laFortune Student Center 
7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop In Bad­Notre Dame Room 
minton, Rolfs 

12:00 a.m. Drumline perfomance at Main Buildin • 
FOR ~ORE INF"OR~ATION, VISIT: w,vw.nd.edu/"-sao/ 
Thursday, September 20, 2001 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


Abroad programs on alert 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's abroad programs will continue as planned this fall despite the heightened sense of danger after the New York and Washington. D.C., attacks. 
Directors will reassess their decision to continue the programs if further attacks occur, however. 
"If there were further attacks or war was declared, we would carefully assess what would be the best steps to take to secure our students' safety," said Anastasia Gutting, director of the London Program ai Notre Dame. "This could include bringing them hack to the U.S." 
Directors of these programs have been handling safety and security matters for these stu­dents who are thousands of miles away from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
On Thursday, the Office of Residential Life and Housing is conducting a meeting with the directors of the abroad programs to discuss future actions. 
Classes resume as usual as the programs are monitoring the events as they unfold and any information that is provided by the State Department and embassies. Site directors have brought abroad students together for meetings, advisement, and prayer services. Directors have been taking every step possible to assure the students and parents and to bridge the distance between the students and the U.S. Sta.ff members have been in con­tact with parents directly, by field­ing their questions and concerns. 

While most abroad students have not heard additional threats against Americans, some students studying in London were mocked by some Arabs. 
"It is especially strange because our flat building is in the Arab part of London," said Molly McShane, Notre Dame junior. "I heard that some students were mocked by local Arabs, who held up pictures of the attacks and laughed at them. Because of that and other random incidents, we are having meetings with local police in tl1e building today." 
Students have been advised to avoid characterizing the stereo­typical American image. In coun­tries whore English is not the native language, authorities cau­tioned them not to spPak the lan­guage in public. Other precau­tionary advice included avoiding 
U.S. governmental buildings, U.S. corporate offices, and U.S. chain stores and restaurants. 
Officials in London have increased police security through­out the city since Tuesday's ter­rorist attacks. 
Gutting pointed out a recent 
U.S. embassy study noting that London is safer now than it was before the attacks for American citizens. The London Program implemented its standard security procedures for possible terrorist attacks. 
"I have noticed _the increased police presence throughout the city so it makes the threat that something might happen more real to me." said Melinda Redding, a student in the London Program. 
While Notre Dame did not report any students returning to the U.S. following the attack, sev­eral Saint Mary's students have dropped out of Saint Mary's abroad program since Tuesday. 
Six students in Rome have with­drawn from the program, accord­ing to Peter Checca, counselor for the Rome program at Saint Mary's. Two students in the Semester Around the World pro­gram considered leaving but decided to remain in the program. 
The studenl<, who still plan to study in Rome will leave as sched­tl!ed on Tuesday, according to Checca. 
Closer to the torrorist attacks in Washington, John Eriksen, diret;­tor of the Notre Dame Washington Program. and his staff cont.acted students as quickly as possible after the Pentagon attack to determine their safety. All the students were fine and returned to internships and class­es Monday. 
"Most importantly, we are con­stantly evaluating the situation and our foremost concern is the students' safety," said Eriksen. 
· Currently, all of the abroad pro­grams have decided to finish this semester, and have not made plans to cancel the program for next semester. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at downes.4@nd.edu 
Tickets 
continued from page 1 
tickets at 10 a.m. todav. 
The pre-sale is a small allocation compared to ticket.'> distributed in general public sales, according to a Wednesday e-mail from site organizers. 
The e-mail offers a chance for each member household to buy two pre-sale tickets and provides a password for doing so. U2's appearance in the Joyce Center Oct. 10 at 7:30 p.m. kicks off a North American 13-date third leg of the group's Elevation Tour. 
Students should direct any questions to the Joyce Center Ticket Information Office at 631-7356 or to the student government office at 631-7668. 

Freedoill 
continued from page 1 
said or done," Mandell said. "I still remember vividly the nude pictures and drawings in art books were carefully cut out... should there be a line?" 
While Saint Mary's is not the only higher education institution struggling to define what acade­mic freedom means to its specif­ic campus, O'Toole points out problems arise when people misattribute a speaker and assume the institution has endorsed what is being said. While institutions can disclaim speakers the speakers can also disclaim the institution. 
However, the state cannot rule over private institutions. The state cannot. tell Saint Mary's what to do -Saint Mary's has to set its own limits and tolerance in the handbook. 
"To recognize academic free­dom is not a law of nature or a law of God, it is a mutually agreed upon good," Feigl said. 
The purpose of the 'Academic Freedom: Is there a line"' Symposium was to form ques­tions and to create an atmos­phere where open and respect­ful dialogue could occur. College President Marilou Eldred hoped the Academic Freedom Symposium would provide a "stimulating and provocative discussion," she also hoped it would be an opportunity to dL-;­cuss what the campus has had questions concerning in the past. 
Student body president Michelle Nagle, who sat on the panel, said she didn't know how to define academic freedom. 
"I don't know what academic freedom means, I searched for meaning and not one student could answer what academic freedom meant to them," Nagle said. 
Contact Courtney Boyle at boyl5460@saintmarys.edu 

SUB wants you! Recruitment night -Thursday Sept. 20 Wanna be a part of the group that brought you \ I\ I Jimmy Fallon, Guster and Bobby Knight? Did you have fun at Second City and Tom Deluca?? Stop by SUB recruitment night to learn more about the best organization on campus! 8:00 ­9:30 pm Lafortune Ballroom  







ATION 
Thursday, September 20, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Protestors charged in N. Ireland: 
The Irish Republican Army offered Wednesday to renew its negotiations with international disarmament officials, saying it wants to accelerate the process. It was unclear whether the statement would influ­ence Britain's intention to strip power this weekend from Northern Ireland's joint Catholic-Protestant government, the corner­stone of a 1998 peace accord that faces immi­nent collapse because of the IRA's long-stand­ing refusal to disarm. 

Japan considers self-defense law: 
Offering his support to Washington's campaign against terrorism, Japan's prime minister said Wednesday that Tokyo may consider enacting a new law that would broaden the self-defense force's responsibilities in overseas conflicts. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Greenspan supports economy: 
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan urged congressional leaders Wednesday to focus on restoring American economic confi­dence but not to rush a stimulus plan that could have uncertain effects. President Bush, meanwhile. sought from the White House to assure Americans that the government will pay full attention to the shaky economy after last week's terrorist attacks. 


SEC probes market manipulation: 
The enforcement chief of the Securities and Exchange Commission said the agency was pursuing all credible leads in trying to deter­mine whether terrorists tried to profit from stock and options trading ahead of last week's attacks. On Tuesday, the world's largest options market, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, said it was investigating reports of unusual trading activity before the devastat­ing attacks in New York and Washington. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

More charges on tainted brownies: 
A woman accused of sending marijuana­laced brownies to Elkhart firefighters who ate them and became ill now faces two crimi­nal recklessness charges. Susanna Cole, 39, of Elkhart already faced two felony charges of battery on a firefighter. The new misde­meanor charges mean Cole could face up to seven years in prison if she's convicted. Her trial starts Monday. Two Elkhart firefighters were hospitalized after eating tainted brown­ies on Dec. 23, 2000. 
Market Watch Se1Jtember 19 
Dow 8759.13 -144.27 

].~ones 
. 
Composite Same: Volume: 149 NIA 
AMEX: 821.06 -16.46 
NASDAQ: 1527.80 -271B NYSE: 529.38 -8.99 S&P 500: 1016.10 -16.64 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQ) -1.74 -0.53 29.9/CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.59 -0.08 13.4S SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -0.87 -0.08 9.lE INTEL CORP (INTC) -5.07 -1.19 22.2E ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -1. 58 -0.18 11. 2E 

Associated Press Asked by a reporter the Gulf and a second in set up under very austere whether Defense Secretary the Arabian Sea to the conditions. and include
WASHINGTON Donald H. Rumsfeld had south. men and women who can
The Pentagon on 
signed a deployment order, The defense official, who run control tower opera­Wednesday ordered fighter his chief deputy, Paul discussed Wednesday's tions, load and unload air­and bombers to begin mov­Wolfowitz said, "There are deployment order on condi­craft, and fuel planes. 
ing to the Persian Gulf 
movements and we will see tion he not be identified, The United States already area, the first concrete sign 
more movements." He said no aircraft had yet has a sizable and well­
of preparations to retaliate would not elaborate. moved. First to move would developed military pres­
for last week's terrorist 
Separate from the order be the airlift control teams, ence in the Persian Gulf,attacks, a senior defense to send Air Force planes to which must establish with combat aircraft sta­official said. 
the Persian Gulf area, the ground communications at tioned in Saudi Arabia,The combat aircraft will aircraft carrier USS various places along the air Kuwait, Bahrain and else­
be preceded by teams of 
Theodore Roosevelt and route in order to coordinate where. It appeared likely
Air Force airlift control 
the ships in its battle group refueling operations. that many of the extra
teams to coordinate the 
left their home port at The airlift control teams combat aircraft to berefueling of the fighters and Norfolk, Va., on Wednesday are designed to deploy in deployed in the next sever­
bombers as they deploy 
for a scheduled six-month support of cargo and al days would go to Kuwaitfrom the United States to deployment to the tanker planes, vital to the and Bahrain, the officialthe Gulf, the official said. 
Mediterranean. support network set up for said.
The deployment has been 
The Navy already has any long-term air opera­
dubbed "Operation Infinite 
one carrier battle group in tion. The team are able to
Justice," the official said. 
Chirac says U.N. should lead fight 
the predominantly Muslim Arab really a question of genuine, coordi­
Associated Press 

world. nated, long-term action in order to 
UNITED NATIONS Chirac sidestepped a question on eradicate terrorism," he stressed. 
French President Jacques Chirac whether france would support any The Bush administration has urged the United Nations Wednesday U.S. military action, saying his gov­embarked on an all-out campaign to to lead the fight against terrorism, ernment would evaluate the situation build an international coalition declaring it must be a long-term bat­and consult its allies. against terrorism. The new U.S. tle that goes beyond military action "France, I can tell you, will not ambassador to the United Nations, -targeting the perpetrators and root stand aside against a scourge that John Negroponte, said Wednesday causes. defies all democracies," he said. that this would be his top priority. 
In responding to last week's ''Today, it's New York that was tragi­Chirac said the United Nations is attacks, he said, the United States cally struck, but tomorrow it may be the best body to "mobilize our ener­must make sure it follows two rules: Paris, London, Berlin. gy" to root out terrorism, which he Identify the fundamentalist terrorist "But, I repeat, the action to be called the"absolute priority in the groups responsible and bring them accomplished is something that by world today." to justice, and don't finger-point at far transcends military action. It is 
.
••~~•~•••-•~~~£•~~~---~~~-~&~--••·,-•~•-•••-•••-···-~•••~~~-~~~~~••4T~~·-~~~~~~~~~·~~~~~~·4~2::~~~~~-~~••••-••••-•••• 
page6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 20, 200 l 
CREDIT 
FIRST 

SUISSE 
BOSTON 

IT'S ONE THING TO BE DRIVEN. QUITE ANOTHER TO DRIVE. 
I 
I 
I 

CSFB INVITES ALL JUNIORS AND SENIORS TO OUR FIRM-WIDE PRESENTATION MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24TH, 7:00 PM -CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION, LOWER LEVEL 
At the Credit Suisse First Boston Firm-Wide Presentation, we'll show Juniors and Seniors how you can make an immediate impact at one of the world's leading investment banks. After all, we've found that the best way to empower our clients and help them succeed is to do the same for you. 
Cs FB I EM POW ERIN G CH ANG E!M 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 

4:l Copyright 2001 Credit Suisse Firs! Boston Corp. All rights reserved. 
Thursday, September 20, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
STUDENT SENATE 
Committee drops 12:30 a.m. parietals issue 


Aetor~ Fr<n11 Tl1e Lo11clo11 Stage 
AMidsummer Night's Dream mt·· ~ by William Shakespeare 
_ Thursday, September 20 'Tl.
c\ 
Friday, S.,r• ri.

1\.e ---Pla-y,,\> 0 st\1°rteseroed Seat,-$-16 ___ 
--~ ;i,14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and.Visa orders call 631-8128. 
Notre Dame's Graduate Student Union invites you to participate in the 
GSU Lo90 Desi9n Contest 

$150 
CASH PRIZE 
Open to full time undergrads & grads currently enrolled in an academic institution within the state of Indiana. 
DEADLINE: 
All entries must be postmarked by (ktohcr H, 2001. 


Submission rules, guidelines and entry form are available at: GSU Office, #101 LaFortune's Mezzanine GS.U's'Website (pdf file), www.gsu.nd.edu 
Qyestions? 
ppc@gsu or villa-real. t@nd.edu 

By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
The Student Senate's Committee on Residence Life will no longer have 12:30 a.m. pari­etals on Sundays as one of its main issues, Alumni Hall senator Matt LaFratta announced at 
Wednesday's Senate meeting. 
LaFratta, who is co-chair of the committee, said that he and other committee mem­bers recently met 
with  Bill  Kirk,  
assistant  vice  
president  of  

Student Affairs. "Our biggest issue is that we 
extension the Residence Ufe com· mittee would like for all dorms. 
However, Kirk said that the· University could simply start enforcing its oflicial rule of mid­night parietal:; for all dorms on Sunday night, according to LaFratta. 
"Right now, the administration just looks the other way on dorms 
"Right now, the administration just looks the other way on dorms that have 12:30 [a.m.] parietals." 
Matt Lafratta Alumni Hall senator 
want consistency in all the dorms," said LaFratta. Currently, some dorms extend parietals by half an hour on Sunday nights, an that have 12:30 parietals," LaFratta added. 
In addition, senators dis­c u s s e d 
fundraisingefforts for fam­ilies of rescue worke,s who died in the World Trade Center collapse 

last week. Stadium ushers and student volunteers will be collect­ing money from fans during Saturday's football game against 
If you know this hand ... 

Michigan State. 
"There will be a collection in the stadium to try to raise more money for the families of the fire­fighters and police officers lost," said Carroll senator Jesse Flores. 
The money collected at the foot­ball game will be added to money collected at campus masses last weekend and this weekend. Donations from Sunday's candle­light memorial processional, which Flores said totaled over $4,700, will also be donated to the same fund. 
'"It's going to be even bigger this weekend," said Keough senator John Cannon. "Hopefully, it's going to be a really big thing and the University as a whole will be able to give a really big donation." 
In other Senate news:. 
. 
Student body president Brooke Norton announced that a group of students will be distribut­ing red, white and blue ribbons around campus. Norton added that anyone willing to help cut and tie the ribbons can volunteer today from noon to 5 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom and from 5 to 10 p.m. in the basement of Walsh Hall. 

. 
Moscona introduced two new senators. Senior Matthew Smith will represent off campus stu­dents, while sophomore Maggie Morrissey will represent McGlinn Hall. 


Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu 
Vero Italiano 
Catalino's Trattoria Downtown South Bend 


FRI. SEPT.21 7:00 PM Women's soccer vs. VIiianova 
"College Might~# with prizes and gift certificates from: ::~': .t4l'l'la. 
•  Dorm Competition:  
Waffle's  Donn with the highestperce,1tage in  
atte1zdance receives 200 Woffie's subs!  

Men's Saccer vs. R11t11ers 
AT. SEPT.22 7:30 PM and· 
Women's Soccer vs. Georgetown 
UN. SEPT.23 1:00 First !500 fans receive a free fros1y from 


page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 20, 2001 
Library 
continued from page 1 
space lost, current furniture was moved closer together, but there was still a net loss of 3 5 reader seats. 
"We erred on the side of sav­ing seats. but if it is too tight. students should tell us," said Stevenson. 
To replace the basement's pit and staff lounge, the registrar allowed the faculty lounge never return to the library. 
"It will only come back if people beg for it; we haven't put things in the catalog for 15 years and it was taking up prime real estate. There will be more seating for students, but some faculty are sad to see it go, they have a sentimental attachment," said Stevenson. 
Library specialist Lin Doversberger said that no one has required the catalog since it was removed. Now that the catalog is gone, infrequenl library users will not think it is the source for information 
next to the "It will come back only about books. 
auditorium to "Members of
ifpeople begfor it; we
be converted the community
haven't put things in the
into an area would go to the that now holds catalog for r 5 years catalog and not 11 vending be aware that
and it was taking up
machines and we had the 
seats for staff prime real estate. " 
online catalog and students . . . I like the to eat at. openness of this 
Marsha Stevenson· 
Students 
library renovation coordinator room now, it's
responded well to the change in the location of the vending machines. 
Junior Ramon Villalpando usually uses the vending machines to get something to drink each time he visits the library, and had no problem finding the new location of the machines. 
"I went down to the base­ment to make a phone call and saw that the vending machines weren't there. I knew they were up here because I saw the machines being moved earlier this week," said Villalpando. 
To accommodate more study space on the first floor for stu­dents, the card catalog was placed into storage and may 
much roomier," Doversbcrger said. 
During the summer, other changes were made to prepare for the renovation. The special collections department was moved to the old reserve book room space on the second floor and the reserve book room was moved to the first floor. 
When work begins next month, workers will seal off the basement and remove asbestos. When asbestos abatement is completed, the current office walls will be demolished so that work on the new layout can begin. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer.l@nd.edu 

~g,:~..~~v~~ 
Ng l:\l~~:pF9..p llv~ 
Bring Your college ID -Must Be 21 
HEARTLAND :: 222 S. MICHIGAN:: SOUTH BENO:: 219.234.5200 HEARTLANDSOUTHBEND.COM. ,·; 

... is what you'll be if you keep waiting to make your football weekend dinner plans. 
Call to reserve your table today! 
OPEN FOR LATE NIGHT DINING FRIDAY & SATURDAY, TOO. 
Prime banquet space for your private party. 10•1000 guests. 
222 S. Michigan South Bend 
219.234.5200 
page 9 

Thursday, September 20, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC forum targets sexuality 
ByJILL MAXBAUER 
News Writer 
In a forum discussion Wednesday night at Saint Mary's, students and administra­tors lounged on the floors talked about something that usually gets little mention between the two groups: sexuality. 
Representatives from Residence Life, Board of Governance and Campus l'vlinistry engaged in a discussion with students on forms of human relationships, the media's por­trayal of sexuality, "right" rela­tionships in the eyes of the Catholic Church and sexual assault. The forum, the first in a year-long series on sexuality, kicked off "Understanding and Embracing Our Sexuality," a new approach to programming on sexuality. 
The series comes on tl1e heels of last year's controversy over the "Vagina Monologues," a script by Eve Ensler dealing with sexuality College administrators prohibited from being performed on campus. The fonim is meant to be a response to a campus discuss sexuality issues. demand for a different approach "Women's sexuality is defined to sexuality programming. by the presence of a male or lack 
While there was a lack of there of. A woman's sexuality questions from only comes into the group of play with a man
"Even ifpeople didn't 
students in involved ... on attendance, campus, we can
ask questions, they left 
administrators thinking about things, experience our were pleased sexuality in a
and that's our goal."
with the mature female evening's way." she said. results. Dana North At the end of 
the discussion,

"I think it director of residence life 
went well. Even if people didn't ask questions, they will leave thinking about things, and that is our goal," said Dana North, director of residence life, one of the administrators in attendance. 
"[ feel really positive," said Judy Fean, director of Campus Ministry. "There was an opening up of different forms of sexuality ... The series is to open the whole aspect of sexuality and that was displayed with what was talked about tonight," Fean said. 
Senior Angela Fox said Saint Mary's single-sex environment creates a unique opportunity to 

We have lu11ch buffet seven davs a week. 
ol 
Student: $5 I Oo/c disco11nt for all st11dents ancl staff. 
. 
\Ve are at the corner of Grape l{oad & lVIcl(inley at l{-l\11art Plaza. 
. 
Phone: 254-9070 


Celebrating their 38th season, Ririe-Woodbury Dance Company is heralded as a powerful force in modern dance. 
Thursday, Sept. 20, 2001 at 7:30 PM O'Laughlin Auditorium 
FOR TICKET INFORMATION CALL THE ,'"8..~~
SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE AT 284-4626 ~,.::J,•~~-"' 
folders contain­

ing handouts on sexuality and a resource packet with contact numbers were passed out to the crowd. Also, a evaluation slips were filled out by those in attendance so the plan­ning groups could receive as much feedback as possible after the sessions. 
The administration stressed that each talk will have different administrators/students leading discussions and students should pick and choose to attend meet­ings that spark their interests. 
The next meeting is on Oct. 10, at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. The topic to be 
discussed is moral choices and 
decision-making in the context 
of sexual choices, freedoms 
and consequences. 
Contact Jill Maxbauer at maxb3 l 26@saintmarys.edu 
Off-campus students face security concerns 
By V. VAN BUREN GILES 
News Writer 
It is a right of passage to move off campus senior year. With extra freedom. however, comes extra danger. 
"It is safer on campus. There is no doubt about that," said Chuck Hurley, assistant director of oper­ations for Notre Dame Security and a retired South Bend police officer. 
He reported that the most com­mon types of off-campus crimes include break-ins to both cars and homes. 
"Rarely people are assaulted or accosted with weapons. but there have been instances in the past," said Hurley. 
Assaults are rare but not unheard of, according to Hurley. In his 13 years at Notre Dame, the most shocking crime he can remember was a shooting outside of the former tavern Bridget McGuire's Filling Station. 
"Some students were in an argument with another group of men when a gun was brandished and a Notre Dame student wound up getting shot multiple times. The student lived, but the inci­dent served as a lesson for others to be weary of their surroundings 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
Seasons Wanted 
when outside school walls," said Hurley. 
Hurley recommended that stu­dents never forget to lock doors and windows. Even with locked doors, students can still be vic­tims because they are creatures of habit. 
"It is easy for outsiders to learn a students schedule by watching their daily activities. Class hin­ders some students as do October, Christmas and Spring Break," Hurley said. "It is com­mon knowledge when schools are on vacation and when homes are open to attack." 
Students, however, are not helpless. 
"There are many courses of action to prevent becoming a sta­tistic. Investing in a home securi­ty system is a valuable step along with alerting the South Bend Police Department of when resi­dents are away for extended peri­ods of time. 'Home Watch' is a service provided in which police officers can come by your home and inspect for irregularities over break," said Hurley. 
Notre Dame students arc not 

automatically targeted for being 
students, but exerting a keen 
sense of street savvy is the best 
way to avoid conflict, according 
to Hurley. If you live off campus, 
Hurley recommends making 
friends with your neighbors to 
ensure a sense of added security 
when away from home. 
Contact V. Van Buren Giles at gi1es.6@nd.edu 

Watch me. Catch me. Play me. Use me anytime you like. Now there's a place where you are truly pa,t of the action. The drama. The music. The sci-filhorror. The comedy. Original creations from 
users like you. Screenblast'"-experience it. 
--------Thumky, Septembe, ~ 
page 10 
NEWS BRIEFS 
ND authors to present workshop Friday: Tom Coyne and James Ellis Thomas, authors and Notre Dame graduates, will join top literary agent Dan Mandel to present a reading and pub• lishing workshop Friday at 3 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Creative Writing Program, the workshop is part of the Paul M. and Barbara Henk.els Visiting Scholar Series and is free and open to the public. Coyne is the author of "A Gentleman's Game," a novel that is the basis for an upcoming feature film starring Gary Sinise. Scenes for the movie, which is set for release next year, were shot at Coyne's golf club and in his home. The author of the short story "The Saturday Morning Car Ash Club," Thomas also has a novel forthcoming from Simon and Schuster. Mandel is a literary agent for Sanford Greenburger Associates in New York and represents Notre Dame graduate and best-selling author Nicholas Sparks. 
McKenna named anthropology chair: James 
McKenna, a nationally recognized authority on sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) and the value of co-sleeping arrange­ments for parents and small children, has been appointed the University Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Chair in Anthropology. McKenna, chair of the Department of Anthropology and director of the Mother-And-Baby Behavioral Sleep Laboratory, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1998. His research has continued to build evidence in favor of the notion that infants thrive and arc safor when they sleep with their mothers. McKenna suggests that these physiological and psychological benefits are a buffet against SIDS. McKenna received his doctorate from the University of Oregon and taught at Ponoma Colleg~ in California and the University of California at Berkeley before coming to Notre Dame. He has writ­ten three books on SIDS and co-edited an influential work titled "Evolutionary Medicine." McKenna is equally accomplished in the classroom, having won numerous teaching excellence awards at Ponoma. In 2000, he received the University's Thomas Madden Teaching Award for outstanding instruction of first-year students and a Kaneb Teaching Award for exceptional teaching of under· graduates. The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, Chair in Anthropology honors Notre Dame's executive vice president emeritus and was made possible by an anonymous benefactor. 
Traditional 
music from the west of 
Ireland 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Group addresses eating disorders 
By ALLISON ROCHE News Writer 

It is uncommon for a woman to go through life without feeling social pressures to be skinny and reflect a magazine cover's idea body image. A group of students at Notre Dame, though. Le; trying to help women overcome their issues with food, exercise and body image -or to find, as the group is called, A Llfe Uncommon. 
AUfe Uncommon is an eating dis­order support group open to "any girl who has had times when she was thinking too obsessively about exercise or counting calories," according to Amy Wodoslawsky, one of the founders of 1he group. 
Wodoslawsky said the group started to break students free from the common feeling of isolation in their struggles vvith nutrition and self-image. 
"We don't want girl'> to feel alone. At least 20 percent of women on col­lege campuses have eating dic;or• ders," shesaid. 
Approximately 100 women attended this year's first meeting last Wednesday. 
Each meeting begins with a prayer led by Chandra Johnson, who advises the group, and one woman's personal testimony. After the testimony, the group breaks into smaller discussion groups to option­ally talk about personal struggles with eating disorders. 
Each meeting ends vvith a song and an affirmation. 
Wodoslawsky feels that support from a large group is important because anorexia, bulimia, and over-eating are problems that extend beyond their physical mani­festations. 
"An eating disorder is an illness of the heart and the soul and it needs to be treated as such," Wodoslawsky said. 
"When women can come together and share stories, particularly about their physical and mental health. then they don't feel all alone," Johnson said. "It prompts a process of introspection." 
Although the group's focus is on support. they are making future plans which include speaking at all Notre Dame women's donns before October break and then hopefully at Saint Mary's dorms after the break. A day retreat is also being planned possibly for November. 
The group also encourages mem­bers to seek professional help for their eating disorders through University and College counseling services. Valerie Staples is the eating disorders specialist at Notre Dame. 
While A Life Uncommon is restricted to women out of respect for privacy and to ensure the highest level of comfort for participants. leaders still recognize the preva­lence of eating disorders among men. 
"I feel so bad for guys because [an eating disorder] has such a stigma attached to it for them," Wodoslawsky said. "People don't really realize." 
To address eating disorders in men. A Life Uncommon will host an all-men meeting in November. 
A Life Uncommon meets every Wednesday night at 10 p.m. in Pangborn Hall. The group is led by Wodoslawsky, Allie Swiack, Sarah Shacklett and Darcy McLaughlin. 
Contact Allison Roche at roch0584@saintmarys.edu 
Friday, Sept. 28, 2001 at 7:30 pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 
l,,rn1.wi,..,11C•ll.rtfo
MV. U 
FOR TICKET INFORMATION CALL THE J <;~I{, SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE AT 284-4626 ~.!o~t~.. ,~ 


Thursday; September 20, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Attacks will alter NY mayor's race 
HENRI NOUWEN 
Passion andSyirituaaty 
Fifth Anniversary Celebration 
Join us in ce{efJrating tfie yassion and syirituafity ofJ-{enri Nouwen. 
September 29, 2001 
lQf 

11 :00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at the Center for Continuing Education (CCE) Rm. 210 
Celebration will include: Also: 

'~ \lideo dips of Henri's Panion * "Stream" the event on your computer by 
* 
Panel ReFlectionx on Henri\ clicking on www.nd.eduforcoverage. Spirituillitg *Pray in solidarity with the participants. 

* 
Downlink sites' comments and * Order the post-event video to view with questions family, friends, colleagues, students or 

* 
Deuf!rages will Le provided retreat houses for personal enrichment. 


tRI 


For more information contact 
C.[NT£R FOR 
SOCIAL 

Erin Kennedy at (219) 631-9835 
CONCERNS 

''A GOAL FOR LIFE'' 


A-I·~..Parseghian.. Research Foundation 5k R.un / 2 Mile w·alk 
Septeniber 23rd, 2001........Starts at 3 p.1n* attheCSC 
$10 befhre race day ~ $12 on race day 
'First 400 Finishers Receive T-Shirts!! 
Look for signups in the djning hail or on race day! • 
Sec C:OACH PA.RSEGHIAN there!!!!!!!! Fm more about the Ji.,nndation: wv>'w.parsegbfo.n.org 
THIS SUNDAY! 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The attack on the World Trade Center has trans• formed the New York mavor's race from an election a"bout preserving prosperity and a low crime rate to a con­t e s t focused on which man can best 
she Ph c rd Giuliani 
the city through 
the crisis. 
In fact, some New Yorkers have been so impressed by Republican Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's resolute leadership since the attack that they don't want to pick a new mayor at all. They have sug­gested delaying the election to keep the outgoing mayor in City Hall for the recovery effort. 
And Giuliani. whose last day in office is Dec. 31, has not ruled out the possibility. 
The GOP and Democratic primaries had been scheduled for Sept. 11, but less than three hours after the polls opened, two hijacked airlin­ers toppled the Trade Center towers, profoundly changing the issues and the tenor of the campaign. 
"The most important issue now is building the city's psy­che, its morale and its infra­structure," said Steven Cohen. director of the gradu­ate program in public policy at Columbia University. "So people are going to step back and take a second look at the candidates." 
The primaries have been rescheduled for Tuesday. But since the attack, no one has openly campaigned. 
The candidates face a dilemma: If they make cam­paign appearances, they are likely to be accused of insensitivity. 
Publicly, the candidates say they have lost some of their appetite to campaign in a time of widespread grief. Since the attack, they have given blood, visited hospitals and talked with firefighters, but said little about the elec­tion. 
The exception is Democrat Peter Vallone, who before the attack was running near the bottom in the polls. But by virtue of his position as City Council speaker, he has been elevated to a relatively promi­nent role. 
During the crisis, Vallone has sought to present himself as a steadying figure who transcends politics, in much the way Giuliani has. Indeed. Vallone has attached himself to Giuliani's side at the mayor's daily news briefings, though Vallone usually has little to add to the grim updates on the dead and missing. 
Republican political consul­tant Jay Severin raised the possibility that Vallone's proximity to Giuliani, who suddenly has become extremely popular, could be enough to put the candidate back in contention. 


Severin said that in addition to rebuilding the city, the election's major issue could be crime, which voters are likely to link to their sense of security. If so, Giuliani -who made crime-fighting a priori­ty, and presided over a record drop in crime -could be even more influential in the race. 
"I think this could mean 

· that the candidates will try to become more Rudy-like, or at least try not to be too unlike Rudy," Severin said. Giuliani has not dismissed suggestions that he try to stay on past the end of his term. "I need to think about that," he told WINS-AM on Wednesday. For him to stay. the Legislature and Republican Gov. George Pataki would have to enact emergency leg­islation to extend his term, or the City Council and city vot­ers would have to amend the City Charter. Neither scenario is likely because Vallone and top leg­islative leaders have all said they do not want to override city voters. who enacted the term limits law in 1993, just before Giuliani took office. The mayoral election is Nov. 6. Polls before the Sept. 11 attack showed that Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer and Public Advocate Mark Green tied among the Democratic· candidates, with Vallone and Comptroller Alan Hevesi trailing by as much as 15 percentage points. On the GOP side, polls showed bil­lionaire media mogul Michael Bloomberg with a command­ing lead over Herman Badillo. a former congressman. Before the attack, reform of the city's struggling 1.1-mil­lion-student school system had been the primary focus of the campaign. Police abuses against minorities were also frequent targets of candidate criticism. Giuliani himself had also been an issue, particularly his often combative personality. Each candidate had promised to behave in a more civil manner, and to reach out to all of the city's neighbor­hoods, which Giuliani was accused of failing to do. Since the terrorist attacks, though, there has been noth­ing but praise for the mayor and the police department from Vallone, while the oth­ers have silenced their criti­cisms, Earlier this week, Bloomberg, who has spent more than $20 million and blanketed the airwaves with ads in the weeks before the primary, made a rare public appearance at a business conference to discuss the recovery effort. His company, Bloomberg L.P., has three people missing. "The normal campaign hoopla is out the window," Bloomberg adviser William Cunningham· said. "We would certainly urge people to vote to show people that New York is not defeated, but don't expect the balloons and the bumper stickers." 
I

--..... -...... -.. --· -.......... ---~--·----·· ...... -.... --.......... -­
"' 
j I 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, September 20, 200 I 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Noere Dame, IN 46556 024 Sooth Dining I lali, No<re Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHI.EF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pac Peters  

Nt.'WS EDITOR, Jason McFarley V1£Wl'OINT EDITOR, Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR! Noah Am.tadtcr SAINT MAR¥'S EDITOR, Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR, Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTIMS .ADMINJSTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEii ADMINJSTR.ATOR1 Adam Turner CoNTROUER, Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAG.ERIGENERAL INFO.•...••.•.•.••631-74 7 l 
FAX.................................................·•·· ........631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF......................................631-4542 MANAGING fDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOCNT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCF.NE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. J@nd.edu 
SAJm MARYs.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS!WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visic our Web sice at bttp:llob,erver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/mwic for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES. 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advercisemenrs, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majoriryof the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions r,garding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in Cbwf Mike Connolly. 


One of the noticeable trends of the past decade or so is the normalization of the idea of the single working mom. Where once the traditional family-father, mother, children ­was the rule, these days one is considered narrow-minded if one believes the nuclear family the ideal place to raise a child. 
A bill recently debated in the Illinois Christine Niles Senate proposed that the state, when placing adopted children, should pre­fer, all things being equal, a two-par­ent home over a single-parent home. As I See It ... One would think the bill proposed the overthrow of the government, with all the attacks that ensued. What an inter­esting age we live in, when what was once common sense knowledge is questioned and even derided. How did the exception come to prove the rule? 
A number of factors come to mind, but most prominently, radical feminist notions from the '60s. Back then, Gloria Steinem was busy working undercover as a Playboy Bunny, and when not, cavorting in miniskirts and declaring the idea of marriage "stupid." Simone de Beauvoir eschewed the stifling institution to experiment in her role as the sec­ond sex. And a certain Miss Rodham was writing a thesis on how women must be freed from "the empire of the father." Today, outspoken women like Jodie Foster get inseminated in order to prove that, yes, women can do it alone. Surely a woman so rich, famous and good-looking must be right? 
Pshaw. How I hate to open up a can of worms, but here I must. At the risk of being called a misogynist, I will say that many feminists are deeply misinformed and, more likely than not, nursing old wounds from absent, or uncomfort­ably present, fathers. 
I remember getting into a heated debate some years ago in a feminist philosophy class with a girl named "Sean." I offered the startling idea that at least some l'cminists might have experienced painful relationships with their fathers and boyfriends and have universalized those experiences by viewing all men through like lenses. (This comes from first­hand knowledge, trust me.) She retorted, "That is the worst cop-out excuse I have ever heard. Grrrr!" The class hushed in shock. She then proceeded to pontificate on why women were the superior sex emotionally, spiritually and mentally, why the status quo must be subverted in order to put women in and men out of power. and why men were, alas, utterly unnecessary. To top it all ofT, she offered proof: her grandmother, mother and herself had all been raised in matriarchies, and she had turned out just fine, thank you. 
Right. 

James Robison recounted a telling experience in his book "My Father's Face". A chaplain in a federal prison, in trying to improve morale, convinced a card company to supply 500 inmates with Mother's Day cards. Each inmate would write a special message to his mother and mail them out. The idea was such a success and so improved morale that the chaplain decided to repeat the endeavor. Before Father's Day, he had 500 cards distributed to each inmate -and on Father's Day, not a single card was sent. Not even a little note. Nothing. 
Why? These inmates had grown up with absentee or abu­sive fathers -they could not or did not want to write to them. Statistics reveal that the great majority of men in prison come from homes with absent or abusive fathers. Certainly many variables factor into the crime rate -but I find it more than coincidental that so many absentee fathers have children facing lives behind bars. What does this evi­dence tell us? Clearly not the gender feminist mantra that men are irrelevant. 
So, is it the case that women need men like fish need bicy­cles? Come let us reason together. The fact that some men cannot comprehend spousal and parental responsibility does not turn the teeming hoards of loving fathers into a massa damnata. And (here goes another can of worms), fathers play a role in child-rearing that no mother, like it or not, can fully replace. Each one functions equally, but uniquely, in his or her own sphere. Which unique qualities they bring to the parental role is debatable and depends on which side you fall on in the nature/nurture debate. But the verdict is in: Men are indeed important. 
Some seem to be catching on. Susan Faludi has begun to realize that men, the poor darlings, have feelings, too. And Gloria Steinem has traded in her bunny suit for her new role as wife. Even Madonna, sometime single mom and would-be ruler of the female world, has slowed down to take on the domestic pace of married and maternal life. Supreme Court Justice Felix Frankfurter once said that wis­dom comes so rarely in the course of human history that it should never be rejected even if late in coming. We can per­haps forgive these women for their earlier folly even if wis­dom showed up a few decades tardy. 
Christine Niles is a law student. Her column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Jason McFarley Matt Nania Laura Rompf Graphics Meghanne Kristin Krouse Downes Production Sports Andrew Soukup Katie McVoy Noah Amstadtcr 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Teresa Fralish Ernesto Lacayo 

POLL QUESTION 
Should the United States use military action to respond to the terrorist attacks? Please e-mail viewpoint. l@nd,edu by Friday to report your answer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"in spite ofeverything I still believe that people are really good at heart." 
Anne Frank wrUer 

V1EWP01NT 
Thursday, September 20, 2001 page 13 
Justice will not come easily 
The Men of Morrissey are growing mullets. 

At least that was the original plan. A group from the large male dorm was going to grow the dreaded haircut (business up top, party in the back) until their goal was met. A variety of T-shirts would have preempted the need to explain io every acquaintance exactly what 
Joe Muto 

they were doing. "We're growing mullets ... " the T-shirt would read on the front, finishing on the back " ... until Osama gets a Livin' on a bullet." Prayer 
The future of this ambitious plan is now in doubt, however because the friends realized what Americans are starting to realize: bringing ter­rorist Osama bin Laden to justice might not be as easy. or even as feasible as we'd like to hope. 
I'd like to start this paragraph out with an apology. I'm sorry that I'm writing about this. My original plan was to write about something else. Anything else. Why dwell on and repeat what others have said before me and have probably said better? My origi­nal article for today was going to be one of my stan­dard gripes about sex, morality and Catholicism. But then Sept. 11 happened. Everything else seems trite in comparison. 
What amazed me the most about last week were the sudden displays of patriotism. As I walked out of O'Neill Hall for lunch a week and a half ago, fresh from watching the devastation on live television, the first thing I noticed was a flag hanging from a second story window, and a sign that said simply "We will not cower." Instant Messenger buddy icons read "New York lives!," "God bless America," and oddly enough, "Nuke Saddam!" At a house party on Marion Street, a group of men raised their cups high as they sang all the patriotic songs they knew. When they got through those three, they recited the Pledge of Allegiance. 
This patriotism would not be possible, were it not directed against someone. And that someone is Osama bin Laden. The drunken revelers piling into a cab after a night at a bar summed up the popular American attitude toward this terrorist ringleader. "F*** bin Laden!" they chanted like they were being led by the Leprechaun at a football game. The American public knows little more about bin Laden aside from the fact thal he's joining Hitler, Stalin, Castro and Saddam Hussein in the exclusive "American Enemies with Facial Hair" club. All we can see is a Muslim who has it coming. 
I'll admit. I want revenge myself. Nothing would be sweeter to me than finding who's responsible for this, making him grab his ankles and firing a Patriot missile where even the most experienced proctolo­gist would have trouble extracting it. At the same time I don't think we can carpet bomb the entire Middle East, as satisfying as it may seem. We have to find a happy medium. 
However, in this case there may be no happy medi­um. Osama is hiding in the Afghanwildcrness and it will take a major troop deployment to ferret him out. This is nothing like the Gulf War where the Iraqi mil­itary lined up like the proverbial shooting range ducks for our fighters and bombers. And this time America is fighting for a lot more than lower prices at the gas pump. · 
This time we're fighting for our very securjty and our sense of well being. It's hard to stop someone who doesn't care if he lives or dies, almost as hard as it is to comprehend. We're coming to grips with it 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Military ensures safety, survival 
President Roosevelt declared Dec. 7, 1941 a day that will live in infamy forever. On Sept. 11, 2001, Pearl Harbor was forgotten. The unthinkable happened ­America was attacked on her own soil at the heart of the nation and by her oV\'n aircraft. The entire world has changed with the destruction of the World Trade Center and the hit on the Pentagon. 
They are comparing this attack to the attack on Pearl Harbor, but it's not the same. Pearl Harbor was an attack on a military base by a country, an attack seeking a strategic advantage over the United States; it was an attack to draw isolated America into a war that was already raging in Europe. 
This disaster was different. This was an attack by an unknown group of terrorists, it was an attack on the symbols of America, it was an attack on the innocent cit­izens of this country, it was an attack on the very essence and make-up of American freedom and the free­dom of the world. 
Innocent people died when we bombed Japan, but they were innocent people in a country that had declared war. In the same fashion this terrorist organi­zation has declared war on us. We face the issue in responding that once again may lead to innocent people being attacked. Innocent people who may or may not be a member of the terrorist organization that has cruelly and cowardly crossed the line and invaded American soil. 
Right now we don't know whom we're fighting. we don't know where the enemy is, we don't know how to demand retribution for the thousands of lives lost Sept. 
11. Our President however, has decided that we are going to war. I have no doubt that America's military will be able to decisively, expeditiously and accurately single out the individuals responsible for our current sit­uation and punish them for the crime they've committed. 
Coming from a long line of military personnel where the Air Force is the family business, l had always heard about pacifists but had never been in contact with one. until last year. As a freshman at Notre Dame and an ROTC cadet as well, I was both angered and fascinated by Pax Christi. In the end my curiosity got the better of me and as a private citizen and not a representative of the military or ROTC, I attended a meeting and spoke to members trying to figure out why they wanted to do away with the ROTC programs specifically and the mili­tary in general. · 
It was beyond my mind's capacity to imagine how the United States could be safe without a mmtary. I under­stand their philosophy that someone must be the first to act to achieve peace, but I've also lived outside the coun­try most ofmy life and have seen how other countries and other cultures see America and its citizens. For this reason I could not imagine America being the first one to lay down her arms. 

Now in light the events on Sept. 11, events that hap­pened even with the protection of the world's greatest military forces, I'd like to know what Pax Christi thinks we should do. vVhat's it going to take to make you feel safe and unafraid again? In seeking well-known land­marks, what if our o¥m Notre Dame campus was target­ed? What campus is more famous than ours with the Golden Dome or Touchdm,vn Jesus? 
My father fought a war against Communism and I will be fighting mine against terrorism. l can't imagine any­one who callously murdered as many Americans as those who lost their lives Sept. 11 calmly sitting down to talk about our differences and work things out. I would like to know from the individuals who protested the Presidential Pass and Review Ceremony last spring and demonstrated around the Peace Memorial how America should react now. We ignored the threat of terrorism after the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center and now it's happened again on a larger scale. This is the largest single act of terrorism that's ever been commit­ted, devastating if it had occurred anywhere in the world, but especially traumatic because it was commit­ted against Americans. Should we once again try to peacefully work things out or should America do what America does best? 
I know many Americans are sleeping better tonight because they know our fighters are patrolling the skies, our sailors are guarding our coasts and our soldiers are securing our borders. It would be taking away the basic human need for safety to deny these citizens their right to armed forces. 
But once again my curiosity has demanded I find out how this part of Notre Dame, of the world, thinks. Do you really believe America can survive without her citi­zens in uniform? What is it that we should do since the 
U.S. government does not negotiate with terrorists? 
Angel Bruce 
sophomore 
Howard Hall 
Sept. 17, 2001 
in our own ways. For example, the Reverend Jerry Falwell decided that God let us be attacked because of the prevalence of homosexuals. abortionists, femi­nists and civil rights groups. I've got news for the R(wercnd: if God has any grudge against America it's because of Falwell and other "Christians" like him. 
So can we ever feel safe again? Even in our detached, 700 mile-away malaise, do we still have to worry that some guy wearing a turban and a night­gown with a strong hatred of Catholics is going to blow up the Dome? Every time we step onto a plane are we going to scan the other passengers with dis­trust'! Every time we walk into a monument, a large building or a government office, are we going to sub• consciously notice a huge red target around the building? 
The truth is that we can't worry about these things beyond reason. We have to press on. If we live in fear for the rest of our lives, then bin Laden and his ilk have truly won. Ifwe let this disrupt our lives for­ever and interfere with our pursuit of future happi­ness then the terrorists will have succeeded in breaking the American spirit. And that would be the biggest tragedy of all, something that no multitude of mullets could ever counter. 
Joe Muto is a sophomore film and television major who is thinking about picking up English too. His parents, who believe he's wasting their money, would rather have him be a business major. He can be reached at jmuto@nd.edu. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Extend God's 
love to all 
God is not American. To say "one nation under God" does not mean "only our nation under God." 
Certainly God is with the families in New York and Washington, with the firefighters and relief workers who are experiencing this atrocity firsthand. God is also with the beleaguered people of Iraq, those suf­fering in Columbia and, yes, with the people of Afghanistan. God's presence is universal. 
In times such as these, times of terror and death, amid the talk of war and the build-up of hate, we remember that the love ofGod extends to all people. 
While the media and our elected officials pontifi­cate a call to violence, we, as Christians, need to embrace Christ's call to peace. Our leaders, gather­ing in the National Cathedral, even with their peti­tions for "justice and an end to violence," do not legitimate the seeking of our ends through further destruction. 
Where, we should ask, is the voice of Jesus of Nazareth, who not only taught us to "love your ene­mies and do good to those who persecute you" but actually died at the hands of political authority? 
Those terrorists whom we call our enemies should be the recipients of our love and not our vengeance. There are no easy solutions in the quest for justice and we certainly do not have all the answers. 
The temptation to respond with violence in retalia­tion against those whom we perceive as enemies is a strong one. True discipleship in the way of Christ requires an effort at patient, careful, constructive reconciliation. Difficult as it may be, there is no other path to justice. 
As students. faculty and staff of a Catholic University. we should call for peace, an end toter­rorism in all of its forms and the unity of all God's people. 
We take heart in the many actions by groups on campus this week. We must turn our faces from the violent voices of our nation towards the message of Jesus, who calls all into his peaceful kingdom. 
Pax Christi Notre Dame 
Sept. 17, 2001 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE.
movies 
Thursday, September 20, 2001 
page 14 
MOVIE COLUMN 
Real fear, real life 
I have never been scared after watching a movie. In 
fact, I usually chuckle to myself at the absurdities of 
"horror" films while others turn in disgust. 
Sure, I may get startled when I see Michael Myers kill 
another innocent victim, but when leaving the theater I 
am usually just as happy as when 
I entered. Horror movies are usu­
ally so far fetched and removed 
from what society deems the 
"real world" that while suspense 
and a brief thrill is possible (such 
as in "What Lies Beneath"), last­
ing fear is not. What is really 
scary is what cannot be 
explained or believed. 
As proclaimed in "The Usual 
Suspects," the greatest trick the 
devil ever pulled was convincing 
the world he didn't exist. 
Genuine fear results from the 
unimaginable; it is something 
that leaves us with no explana­
tions or relief. 
In movies, this fear can be captured at times, but 
there is always a moral or resolution at the end -a 
silver lining. 
After all, if this was not the case, viewers would be 
left unsatisfied and looking for answers. 
But in life there isn't always an answer or resolution. In the novel 'The Things They Carried," author Tim O'Brien explores this concept, relating it to his stories in the Vietnam War. The real war stories, he argues, are those that do not have a clear moral or answer. They are far more complex. They are beautiful. myste­rious, horrific, triumphant, brutal and exhilarating. In the end, the only thing left to say about a true war story is: "Oh." 
It can be said that one particular movie portraying this characteristic is "Apocalypse Now." Its story does not have a silver lining nor does it allow an apparent meaning at the end. But it captures the emotion of the Vietnam War and examines the varying degrees of evil amongst us all. 
Lots of people said that last week's tragic events "felt like a movie." 
Perhaps in our search for answers and meaning we tried to relate what happened to some sort of plot with a resolution. 
When I asked my friends how they were doing, many could not put it into words. We felt pain, anguish and shock. We·felt loss. We felt fear. There was not much to say at the time -no explanation or finger pointing would suffice. We came together in faith and just being with one another provided a sense of comfort. 
There still aren't any answers. As we seek to punish the enemy, more questions arise. And more fear. I can­not imagine how someone could do this. Perhaps the lack of long term answers is the scariest thing of all. Terrorism, as the name suggests, is based on terror. No logic can stop it, and going to war could quite possibly make it worse. 
In movies, plot developments lead to a climax, then to a resolution. Resolutions can present truths in life. but they ultimately fail to capture what actually happens in the real world. 
In today's society there is more than simple good ver­sus evil, or right and wrong. The political landscape is far too complex to comprehend. There is nothing right about destroying innocent lives, but equally nothing right in not hunting down the guilty parities. 
Perhaps the reason I like movies so much is because I ~an escape from the problem's of everyday life, even if Just for a couple hours. At the moment I'm still sifting through my own fears and worries, ultimately trying to search for the deeper meaning behind it all. 
I guess I am looking for the story, perhaps a story that simply doesn't exist. Genuine fear results from the unimaginable. It is something that leaves us with no explanation or relief. My ideal world would have no acts of violence, prejudice, or oppressive regimes of any shape. And there would always be a silver lining. 
Contact Liam Dacey at wdacey@nd.edu. The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
'Nuremberg' is morally relevant even today 

By l\1ARIO BIRD 
Scene Movie Critic 
In the wake of last week's terror­ist attacks, many people in America have cailed into question the posi­tion of the cinema in national cul­ture. Multiple sources in the media have commented that movies are unimportant during such times, and the delay of multiple film release dates brings the underlying query of an entertainment-fed republic to light: what purpose, if any, does the motion picture art form serve in times of calamity? 
Despite the shabby gamut of con­temporary films that flaunt dazzling special effects and larger-than-life relationships, the film industry, and even Hollywood, should not be absolutely damned as "immoral," "desensitizing" or "intrinsically worthless." A few films continue to illuminate the better possibilities of which the cinema is capable, movies that offer lasting value and intro­spection, even in the darkest hours of human relations. One such film is Stanley Kramer's 1961 drama "Judgment at Nuremberg". 
becomes evident that Kramer is documenting some sort of mass eva­sion of responsibility employed by those who lived in Nazi Germany. However, Rolfe extricates himself from this guilt by operating under a nationalist, albeit noble, ethos: "I want to leave the German people something." 
Rolfe's success in the courtroom depends upon rendering a particu­1ar defendant, Ernst Janning (Lancaster), guiltless. Janning, whose reputation for justice and morality stood for a virtuous Germany, becomes the principal fig­ure in the trial. Rolfe strives to prove his innocence, the prosecution strains to reveal his guilt, and Haywood struggles to understand his enigmatic motives. 
Though the prosecuting attorney Colonel Lawson (Widmark) seems to have files upon files of ostensibly dooming evidence against the four judges, Rolfe foils Lawson's attacks not by outright refutation, but by twisting witness subjectivity in such a way as to make the actions of the four judges plausible. 
Under Kramer's masterful direc­
tion, Rudolph 
Petersen (Clift). who 

Modeled on Abby "Judgment at was sterilized under Mann's Academy Nuremberg" Nazi law because of Award winning his communist
Director: Stanley Kramer
screenplay, father, gives the first
Starring: Spencer Tracy,
"Nuremberg" depicts of three gripping wit­the 1949 trial of four Maximilian Schell, Burt ness interviews. 
German judges who Lancaster, Richard Lawson unremit­are charged with mul­
Widmark, Judy Garland and tingly bears down on 
tiple crimes against his own witness, uti­
Montgomery Clift

humanity, including human sterilization, political oppression and systematic murder. 
Thespian icon Spencer Tracy, who had starred previously in Kramer's provocative film "Inherit the Wind" and who would later team with him in 1965 for the zany "It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World," brings dogged severity to the role of Judge Dan Haywood, the pivotal justice in the trial. 
Besides having a penchant for working with Tracy, Kramer also had a knack for landing all-star casts: Burt Lancaster, Richard Widmark, Marlene Dietrich, Judy Garland and Montgomery Clift all reel off career performances. 
However. German actor Maximilian Schell impresses most in the seemingly one-dimensional role of the defense counsel, which gar­nered him the Oscar for Best Actor. 
Filmed in a sobering mono­chrome, "Nuremberg's" opening scenes feature actual footage of what was left of the city that once hosted the pomp and panoply of the Third Reich: decaying buildings, naked poverty and a guilt-ridden populace. The latter is made evident early in the trial, as Hans Rolfe (Schell) states in his opening remarks, "It is not only [the defen­dants] who are on trial, but the entire German people!" 
Though the idea of collective guilt is a peripheral concept in the court­room, as the narrative follows Haywood's daily encounters with German men and women, it 
lizing his personal 

adamancy and Petersen's testimony to magnify the atrocity of depriving a human being of sexual function. However, Rolfe reminds the court that Germany was not the first country to pro­scribe sterilization: the State of Virginia legalized sterilization of "imbeciles and the feeble-minded." Once this point is made, Rolfe preys upon the unstable Petersen, reveal­ing a crippling mental illness. The resulting debacle is one of the most pathetic and disturbing scenes in film history. 
The fmal testimony is delivered by Janning himself. Tacit and blank for the most of the movie, Janning unleashes a veritable torrent of self­damning diatribe that is chilling. Completely obliterating the notion that he. those in judicial power, and the entire German people were ignorant of the legal monstrosities and death camps incurred by the Nazi party, Janning grimaces, "We didn't know the details, but it was because we didn't want to know." The portrait of Janning's self-tor­ture, captured hauntingly in the entirety of his brilliant monologue, is a simile for the national guilt expressed by the German people. 
Though the interaction between the judge, counsel and witness is stirring, the turning point of the trial comes when the films from the con­centration camps are projected in the courtroom. Originally shot by the Allied forces that liberated Dachau· and other camps, these films arrest the entire flow of the 
Photo courtesy of United Artists 

"Judgment at Nuremberg" is available to rent on video. 
movie. The footage of the innumer­able dead, unburied and desecrated, is treated by Kramer with reverence and integrity. Yet the sequence is without a doubt the most powerful in the film, perhaps because of the sheer nakedness of evil universally recognized by all those who see it. 
Kramer highlights Schell's forceful and charismatic delivery as some of the most powerful lines in the entire film, pointing to an underlying mes­sage in his character: Rolfe admits that the entire German people are on trial. yet reminds the court that some of the same ideologies that paved the way for the Third Reich were embraced wholeheartedly by Virginia State law, which in turn incriminates the United States. He points out that before the Nazi party invaded the Sudetenland, they stopped widespread impoverish­ment and united a nation, and that before Hitler murdered millions of men, women and children, he built the autobahn and created jobs throughout the state. 
Rolfe illustrates how the partial good of Nazism filled the vision of the people of Germany, and blotted out any of the darker aspects that a wider perspective might have had. 
The script's description of early Nazi Germany is eerily similar to that of America, and expresses how human beings, regardless of nation, are prone to evil when they fail to maintain an objective, historical viewpoint upon meeting hard times. 
As America regroups, movies such as "Nuremberg" offer a warning that the citizens of a nation should never compromise basic morals for the sake of the collective good. Janning's final statement is strange­ly pertinent: "Our democracy was torn by elements within. Above all, there was fear. Fear of today, fear of tomorrow, fear of our neighbors and fear of ourselves. Only when you understand that can you under­stand what Hitler meant to us." 
Contact Mario Bird at mbird@nd.edu. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE.
movies 
Thursday, September 20, 2001 page 15 
MOVIE FEATURE 

Robert DeNiro gives his greatest perfonnances as boxer Jake LaMotta, the subject of Martin Scorsese's 1980 film "Raging Bull." Based on LaMotta's.autoiography, "Bull" details the rise and fall of a talented fighter who can't overcome his personal troubles outside the ring. The film is available to rent on video and DVD. 
DeNiro's 'Bull' only fights himself 
ByJOHN DONNELLY 
Scene Movie Critic 
"Raging Bull" is the story of more than 20 years in the life of Jake LaMotta, per­haps the most frustrated character in movie history. LaMotta does not box to defeat his opponent; he fights to vent desires he cannot articulate. He seeks pain, mostly his own. 
Based on LaMotta's autobiography, director Martin Scorsese winds many themes throughout the film, some of which he first explored in "Mean Streets" and "Taxi Driver," and would later devel­op in "Goodfellas." LaMotta, played by Robert DeNiro in one of cinema's greatest performances, does not understand women and is racked with guilt over his relationships with them. 
Scorsese, a Catholic raised during a pre­Vatican II Church, seriously considered joining the priesthood at one time, and knows guilt well. along with the intense feeling of self-hate it creates. At one point, Jake reflects. "I done a lot of bad things ... maybe it's comin' back on me." "Raging Bull" presents his comeuppance. 
Jake is married at the start of the film (set in 1941). but not very happily. The opening. scene with his wife shows a domestic battle as LaMotta orders her around as she cooks. A steak sizzles on the stove just as their intense dislike for each other flares up. This scene sets the tone for their stormy relationship. 
But LaMotta's wife is quickly tossed aside once he meets Vickie (Cathy Moriarty in her film debut). She is 15 years old, but could just as well be 30. Already a man-eater, she knows 100 times more about men than LaMotta will ever know about women. Her character is also unique in that she is the only promi­nent non-Italian in the film. Her platinum blonde hair draws the viewer's gaze like a magnet. 
Another supporting character in addi­tion to Vickie is Jake's brother Joey, played by Joe Pesci. "Raging Bull" launched the young actor's career, which he had almost given up on after struggling to find work. Joey is Jake's mouthpiece. Jake does not speak much, or speak par­ticularly well, so Joey talks for him. Actually, Pesci talks enough for three or four roles, one of which could be a char­acter who speaks nothing but expletives. 
Jake and Vickie's first encounter illus­trates the path their relationship will take. Vickie is on the other side of a chain-link fence, looking voluptuous in her bathing suit. She is separated from Jake. just like she will always be. They marry later, but the viewer knows at that beginning what will happen between them. Vickie, with her icy stare and cool, detached 

Photo courtesy of United Artists "Raging Bull" marks Joe Pescl's film debut. Subsequent Pesci-Scorsese-DeNiro collaborations include "Goodfellas" and "Casino." 
demeanor, sizes him up before he even speaks. Jake never has a chance. 
As their relationship develops, Jake becomes increasingly jeal­ous and obsessive. He constantly fears that she is with other men behind his back, which would be a difficult feat since he almost always has his eye on her. At one point, Vickie mentions that she thinks Jake's upcoming opponent is "good lookin'," Jake becomes furious. He wants to know what she means. Since he is unsatisfied with her answer, he beats the pretty boy savagely in the grue­some match. Jake glares after the fight, not at his vanquished foe, but at Vickie. 
Though LaMotta is obsessed with Vickie, he also fears physical contact with her. Part of his restraint is due to the old boxing aphorism that women make the legs weak. Jake displays restraint when, in a moment of passion with Vickie, he stops, goes to the bathroom, and pours a large pitcher of ice-cold water down his drawers. As much as Jake may fear Vickie for the possible damage that could be done to his career, a more convincing argument for his steadfastness is the large cross hanging over his bed, which is prominently displayed in almost every scene in the bedroom. 
Sound and speech are important in all of Scorsese's films, but they carry particu­lar weight here. The boxing sequences immerse the viewer in ring. The sound of melons smashing is the aural source for a punch hitting LaMotta in the face. A flash­bulb goes off (actually glass breaking). momentarily lighting up the screen. The dialogue flows in the way Scorsese remembers it from growing up in Little Italy, NY. People do not talk: they banter. 
The film was shot in black and white, in part to keep the fight scenes from being bathed in red blood. But the result is stark and disturbing, lending the film a gritty naturalism that color would have con­cealed. The bloody fights are not what one is meant to remember, however. LaMotta is a boxer, but little actual spar­ring takes place. "Raging Bull" is not a sports movie, it is a relentless character study. 

Scorsese frames the story with a sad, older, overweight LaMotta performing at a small, sleazy nightclub in 1962. Filming stopped for months so that DeNiro could put on the 70 pounds needed for these scenes. By this point in the story, nothing LaMotta says is his own -he quotes lib­erally from Shakespeare and "On the Waterfront," repeating Marlon Brando's famous "coulda been a contender" lament. As the audience, the only emo­tions we feel are pity and sadness. 
The low point for LaMotta is when he's in a Miami prison after being charged with serving a 14-year-old girl alcohol in his club. The scene originally called for LaMotta to masturbate in his prison cell. Instead, Jake pounds his head and fists against a concrete wall. This is a slightly less subtle, but more effective display of frustration. 
The amazing thing about "Raging Bull" is that Scorsese, DeNiro and screenwriter Paul Schraeder have taken this crude wife-abuser. presented an in-depth study of his character, and allowed the audi­ence to walk a mile in his shoes. In the final scenes, a wave of compassion wash­es over us. How can we not feel for Jake LaMotta? If we can care for him, we can care for anybody. 
Contact John Donnelly at jdonnel2@nd.edu 
.. 

page 16 Thursday, September 20, 2001
The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

Wright steps toward start 
Former Tiger dies in rescue 
Associated Pxess 
IRVING, Texas 
With Quincy Carter unable to properly grip a toothbrush, much less a football, Anthony Wright moved another step closer Wednesday to becom­ing the Dallas Cowboys' start­ing quarterback this weekend. 
The thumb on Carter's throwing hand is so stiff that he wasn't able to participate in any team drills. Wright took all the snaps with the first team, as he's done since Carter was injured a week ago. 
movement, it'd be hard to grip a football." 
Wright is ready for his chance, far more than late last season when injuries forced him to go from practice squad to starter. 
When he replaced Troy Aikman in consecutive games in December and then started the final two of last season, Wright was viewed as a youngster with potential. Then Aikman left and both Carter and Tony Banks arrived, forc­ing Wright back to third string. 
He became the No. 2 quar­
terback 
C o a c h w h e n 
Dave Campo "We do enough on Friday Banks was indicated that he should be ready if cut, but the 
there's still Cowboys
he's been paying 
time for didn't give Carter to be attention. " Carter a the starter five-year, 
Sunday $4 million
Dave Campo 
against San contract so
Cowboys head coach
Diego. he could 
"We do enough on Friday that he should be Teady if he's been paying attention and can get some snaps on Thursday. I can't tell you how many, but he needs to get some," Campo said. 
Carter started to warm up, but couldn't continue. The treatments of heat and cold being used to reduce the swelling on the outside of the thumb still haven't gotten it back to normal. 
"The main thing is getting the inflammation out," said Carter, a rookie labeled the team's quarterback of the future since being drafted in the second round. "Once that happens, I'll get some better movement. But as long as it's stiff like that without any 
fight to be 
the starter. Campo made it clear Wednesday that when Carter is healthy, the job will again be his -even though he was only 9-for-19 for 34 yards in the opener, a 10-6 loss to Tampa Bay. 
While Wright might not like it, he understands his role. He also realizes that starting Sunday could be the opportu­nity he needs to convince the Cowboys, or other teams, that he deserves to be playing every Sunday. 
"I just want to be given a chance," said Wright, who likely would've started this past Sunday, when Dallas was supposed to play Detroit before the NFL postponed the entire schedule in response to the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. 

"If I go out and blow it, then I blow it. If I make the best of it, so be it. I definitely have the belier in my skills and the things I can do." 
In four games last year, Wright went 22-for-53 for 237 yards with no touchdowns and three interceptions. 
He didn't get much of a chance, though, as both start­ing receivers were hurt and Dallas closed the season in a 1-5 tailspin. He also had the dubious task of facing New York and Tennessee, two of the NFL's best defenses last season. 
"You can't judge me off that game when I never really had a chance to show what I can do," he said. 
Wright and Carter are both mobile quarterbacks with good arms, so the game plan won't change much. Offensive coordinator Jack Reilly was criticized for being too conser­vative in the opener and was expected to loosen the reins this week. He might feel more comfortable giving more lee­way to the more-experienced Wright. 
Wright said he's farther along than Carter because he's been here longer. He declined to discuss other areas where he might be bet­ter than Carter. 
"I don't want to elaborate on that right now because Quincy still has a lot to learn," said Wright, who is in his third year, having spent his first on Pittsburgh's practice squad. "He's still raw, very raw in talent. I can say we do have some of the same skills. Once things are developed, you'll be able to tell a lot better." 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Michael Weinberg was fear­less on the baseball field, track­ing down Dy balls and coming up with big hits with quiet confi­dence. 
To those who knew him, it seemed only natural that Weinberg would someday become one of New York's Bravest. And almost fitting that he died a hero. 
The 34-year-old firefighter, former St. John's outfielder and player in the Detroit Tigers' farm system was killed in the aftermath of terrorist attacks at tho World Trade Center. 
"When 1 first heard about what was going on, one of the first things I said to my wife was, 'I hope Mike wasn't there,"' said Joe Russo, Weinberg's coach at St. John's from 1986-89. 
Weinberg, from Maspeth, N.Y., was a member of the New York Fire Department, stationed at Engine 1, Ladder 24 in lower Manhattan. He was on vacation and getting ready to tee off at Forest Park Golf Course in Queens when he heard that the first plane crashed into one of the twin towers. His sister, Patricia Gambino, was working on the 72nd floor of Two World Trade Center, but escaped. 
Weinberg's firefighter instincts kicked in, and he dropped everything so p.e could get i'ntd' Manhattan and help out. 
Russo said Weinberg drove to his station house before heading to the World Trade Center with the Rev. Mychal Judge, the fire chaplain, and Capt. Daniel Brethel. 
All three men died after they sought cover as the towers col­lapsed, and Russo said Weinberg's family believed Judge was administering last rites to Weinberg when they were killed. 
George Goldbach, a Brooklyn native who spent 20 years in the New York Fire Department before becoming chief of the West Metro Fire Protection District in Colorado, knew Weinberg. 
"He got killed in the street," Goldbach said. "They found him under a truck that had debris fall on it." 
Weinberg, who was buried Monday, always seemed to have a flair for heroics. 
He was the Big East Tournament's Most Outstanding Player in 1988, when he hit two home runs, including a three­run game-winner against Villanova in the semifinal game. llis two-run homer in the cham­pionship game against the Wildcats helped St. John's win the conference title and clinch a berth in the NCAA tqurnament. 
"He never really reached his potential in baseball because he was injured -he broke his right collarbone -and it affect­ed his throwing and swing a lit­tle," Russo said. "He was origi­nally a catcher for us, but after he got injured, we moved him to the outfield and he did a nice job for us. And then, he just went berserk in the Big East tournament that year." 
Weinberg was a career .256 hitter, with six homers and 59 RBI in four seasons at St. John's, and played two undis­tinguished minor league sea­sons in the Tigers organization. His teammates included future major leaguers Jose Lima, Danny Bautista and Felipe Lira. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Northsore Condo,  Wanted: childcare for 4 children,  Hotel Reservation Available THIS  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX  
FOR RENT  1428 Marigold Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR &  Mon. afternoons, close to ND, for approx 5 hrs. Must have own car.  WEEKEND, Fri. & Sat. Call Diana, 289-4356  FOR SALE A.M. -252-2378  WILL TRADE TICKETS ND FOOTBALL FOR U2  
kitchen w/ appliances.  Please call 237-1981.  P.M. -288-2728  232-0964  
1 car garage. $69,9000.  Large desk w/credenza. $400 for  
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM- Call Doris at 254-1772 for more  Seeking reliable, experienced  both. 282-2228  Want to trade 1 or 2 MSU GA tix for  NEED 2 GA'S TO TENNESSEE.  
PUS  info.  babysitter for 3 month old girl.  1 or 2 USC tix. 631-9853, 271-0793  WILL CONSIDER OTHERS.  
mmmrentals. com  Weekday afternoons, 5 mn. from  COMFORT &PRIVACY -Great 2  or 532-0793.  CALL JACK 674-6593.  
email: mmmrentals@aol.com  Apt. 2-bdrm $3S0/person include.  ND. Call Jame at 288-1801.  bdrm-near ND. Appliances includ•  
 
utif. $150 dep. close to ND. 120 W  ing WNDR stay. Garage. 919 N.  - ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices.  Need 2-3 A&M vs ND tix. Call Pat  
cripe st.  PEOPLE NEEDED FOR ADORA- Twyckenham. $S9,900 Cressy and  232-0964.  277-2243.  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  277-9455  TJON ON FRIDAY BETWEEN 1 PM  Everett 277-2666  
Breakfast Inn has space available  & 3 PM AT THE BASILICA  Tickets Swap USC for TN upto 6.  WANTED -ND TICKETS  
tor football/parent wknds. 5 rooms  ROOM FOR RENT  Days 901-332-6735.  289-9280  
with private baths, $80-$115,  ND GAMES  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418· 9487  $250 WEEKEND. CONT. BRKFST. CALL 272-0877  FOR SALE  TICKETS  A BUSINESSMAN NEEDS FOOT­BALL SEASON TICKETS 'GAs ONLY* WILL BUY INDIVIDUAL  PERSONAL  
Large desk w/ credenza. $400 for  GAMES 277-1659 ......  
Apt. 2 bdrm $350/person incl. util.  both. 282-2228  OBSERVER DRIVER NEEDS lWO  SPRING BREAK  
$150 dep. close to ND. 120 W cripe st  WANTED  Northsore Condo, 1428 Mangold  GA'S TO ANY GAME CALL JACK 674-6593  Need 2 Tix for MSU Call Dan 634-1842  Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises!  
277-9455  way near NO, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, OR  Rep Positions, Free Drinks and  
& kitchen with appliances 1 car  WANTED U2 TICKETS  Exchange 2 Tenn for 2 BC  Free trips available.  
HOUSE FOR RENT: 1 )9-br  STUDENT WORK  garage. $69,9000.  232-0964  4-4421  www. EpicuRRean.com  
$2400/month. 2) S•br $1500/month.  $14.50 Base-appt.  Call Doris at 254-1772  1-800-231-4-FUN  
3) 4-br $1000/month. Call Bill at  WILL TRADE TICKETS  WANTED -ND TICKETS  
 
532-1896.  . Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust.  52055 Old Post Lane  ND FOOTBALL FOR U@  289-9280  We finally have a six man! Yeah  
svc./sates positions (S-20hrs)  Spacious 4 bdrm, 2-story on private  232-0964  
 guy with the keys!  
Turtle Creek Apt. Opening  Flex. around classes. Scholarships.  lane in Farmington Square. 2373  Buying some/ Selling a few extra  
1 Br $655 276-4809  Cond. apply  SF+ professionally finished base- Tickets Swap USC for TN upto 6.  N.D. Football Tickets.  

 www.worktorstudents.com/np call  ment Call Jack at 280-7730.  Days 901-332-6735  219-269-8048.  24 hours and Molly will be here! Its  
5 Rooms for rent on football week- M-W 12-5pm 282-2357  Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty.  gonna be a wild, crazy weekend.  
ends. Many happy repeat cus­ 2 ND·.MSU GA tickets 4 sale.  FOR SALE NAVY, WVA, PITT GAS  
 
tamers. 2 minles N. of campus  Spanish translation needed for ed.  '88 GMC SLE pickup truck. Looks  Call Mike @210-4685  654-0168  Amy -did you find anymore sheep  
277-8340.  material. Good pay. Work at home.  good. runs great. Call Mark at 273­ to hang up? There's some in the  
IHRD (8-5, M-F)  0449.  BUY-SELL  $$ NEED8TIX4 WVU  paper today  
For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  915-241-5999  
3 bfks. from NO. Garage avail. 23­ 273-8857.  FOR SALE:  277-6619  K, L,M -do you realize that, not only  
2104  
 Red 1987 Toyota Celica. Good con- WANTED U2 TKTS  do you live together, but your  

 FOOSBALL -Looking for high level  dilion, new snow tires. $1500.  ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  232-0064  names are in alphabetical order?  
For rent: V.trious size apts. avail.  players. Do you have it? Call D  
 
1-1/2 miles from ND.  AM. · 232-2378  4 Weezer Tix for Sale. Row 121  Mod Quad • are you ready for the  
233-2096  257-4441  Call 243-9059.  P M • 288-2726  Sept 21 • United Center • Chicago.  crazy eight people Friday?  
Call Joe 634-1897.  __ :...:.,_  ..·•.·...·-·.,·· ................... -.... .  

Thursday, September 20, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 20, 2001 



-
NFL 
Titan's McNair stays on bench 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 
Steve McNair crossed his arms. He stuck his hands in his pockets and even propped a foot on a cooler. The Tennessee Titans quar­terback did almost everything to pass the time during Wednes­day's prac­tice except pick up a

... 

football. McNair 
McNair 
has not thrown a pass since the season opener when he bruised his passing shoulder, and his status for Sunday's game with the Jacksonville Jaguars looks doubtful even though the Titans listed him as questionable. 
Coach Jeff Fisher said McNair would have to throw Friday to have a chance to play Sunday. But McNair said he's not sure two or three days will make much difference in easing the swelling in his shoulder. 
"Hopefully, I can wake up any day and be 100 percent. It's going to be a process, a waiting game. The swelling's still there. I'm trying to wait until the swelling goes down, so I can at least throw a little bit," McNair said. 
"Words can't explain how I feel right now." 
McNair has been especially frustrated by his latest injury because this one involves the shoulder that doctors had to operate on last February, trying to cure a mysterious infection. He wants to play but doesn't want to risk further injury to the shoulder. 
If the Titans decide caution is best, McNair would have plenty of time to heal because they have a bye week on Sept. 30 and won't play again until visit­ing the Baltimore Ravens on Oct. 7.

-
McNair has had some of his 
best games against the Jaguars, 
an AFC Central Division oppo­
nent, and he doesn't like the 
thought of not playing. 
"It's a difficult week especially for me. Standing on t.hc sideline watching the other guys play. it's something if I've got to do it, I've got to do it," McNair said. 
Unless McNair feels much bet­
ter very quickly, backup Neil 
O'Donnell will be starting his 
first game in a year and his sev­

enth for the Titans. Tennessee is 
5-l in those games, including a 
20-19 victory at Jacksonville in 
1999 . 

"If Steve can't go, Neil goes and we expect him tu make the same kind of plays that he does," Fisher said. ''When all is said and done, we hope the yards are going to be about the same. That which Steve is going to make with his legs, Neil will make with his arm." 
O'Donnell came off the bench 
in the opener when McNair was 
knocked out of the Titans' 31-23 
loss to Miami, and was inter­
cepted twice while trying to rally 
Tennessee in the fourth quarter. 

He hasn't started since Sept. 24, 
2000, at Pittsburgh, but worked 

with the starting offense this 
week. 

'Tm ready if my number's 
called. I'll prepare the same, 
and if they want me to play, I'll 
play," said O'Donnell, who nor­
mally runs the scout offense . during practice. 
The Jaguars will take no 
chances and are preparing to 
defend against both quarter­
backs. 

"We understand fully the con­
tainment principles and what 
has to be done in order to keep 
Steve McNair from coming out 
of the pocket," Jaguars coach 
Tom Coughlin said in a telecon­
ferenc e. "We're also mindful 
that Neil will move in the pocket 
as well and look to throw the 
ball down the field, which can 
be just as big of a problem for 
you." 
HELP!HELP!HELP!HELP! 
Student Activities has immediate openings for : 
Building Set Up Crew 
Flexible hours!! 

' 
I I I I 
' 
I 
I I 
I I I I I I I # 
I 
L 



LIVE FROM DILLON HALL IT'S THURSDAY NIGHT!!! 
DILLON l"IALL PEP RALLY TI·IURS. 7PM 
SOUTlt OUAD 


page 19 ­

Thursday, September 20, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS 
Players associatiolls offer relief to victims 
Associated Press 
Major league baseball and its players association con­tributed $5 million each on Wednesday to establish a relief fund to aid victims of last week's terrorism. 
The MLB-MLBPA Disaster Relief Fund will distribute money after consulting with governmental and charitable relief organizations. 
Many baseball teams and players are making separate contributions, along with the NFL, NBA and NHL. 
"All of major league baseball is deeply saddened by the loss of life and the terrible damage wrought by the terrorist attacks that struck our nation," commissioner Bud Selig said. 
Don Fehr, executive director of the union, said: "The events of Sept. 11 left all of us horri­fied, and none of us untouched. Baseball and America have always gone together, and now, as the country moves forward to relieve the suffering and heal the wounds, everyone in the baseball community wants to go along." 

The New York Mets said manager Bobby Valentine, his coaching staff and the 34 play­ers on the team's active roster would contribute their salaries 
crea/-e@screenblas/-.com 

Change me. Crop me. Control me. Manipulate me any way you want. With the Screenblast Creation Suite·• of editing tools and personal Stash,"' you're notjust a viewer, 
you're a creator. Now get busy. 

from Friday's game against The NFL is about to make a the Atlanta Braves to the New "major financial contribution," York Police & league Fire Widows' spokesman
"The events ofSept. 11
and Children's Greg Aiello 
Benefit Fund. left us all horrified, and said. The donation N H L
none ofus untouched." 
will be about teams have $450,000. raised a 
The NBA is Don Fehr total of contributing executive director MLBPA more than more than $1 $1.3 million million, along for disaster with supplies and office space. relief funds and the NHL 
Players Association donated $500,000 to help families of New York City firefighters and police officers. 
"The members of the NHLPA wanted to make a donation to support the families of the vic­tims of last week's terrorist attacks in New York City," ­NHLPA president Trevor Linden said. "This donation is in addition to the various con­tributions we are making with our teammates and our teams." 
The U.S. Tennis Association announced a $1 million dona­tion to the World Trade Center relief effort. 
"New York City is home to the U.S. Open," said Merv Heller, president of the USTA. "We have worked very closely with New York Police, Fire, EMS and other city agencies and over the years have seen their tireless efforts and dedi­cation firsthand." 
'lne Coo tone Inn 
Bed & Breakfast 

4 rooms, 2 miles from campus 
219-277-6068 
email: wjb4321@aol.com 
. 
.

-Great Deli (in the Schlotzsky's "tradition") 
' 

-Fresh Fruit Smoothies -Hand Dipped Ice Cream ~-e'-'.'\-Uve Music Daily at Lunch Friday & 

..

· Saturday Night -It's Kennedyl 
Nt\\\ -1 000 magazines & Best-Sellers ' 
~t,'.'J\-Weekend Outdoor Grill -Friday & Saturday Nights All Day Gamedays 
I /2 lb. Sirloin Burgers, Brats, Chops, fA.X & Great Steaks PH~\lE l13~Sll14 
--~=~.,...._-

2.3~9212 
Now

::;;~;:~i1;:f:: 
Hiring 

State Rd. 23 at Ironwood 
FREE LUNCHTl,ME DELIVERY! 
Bring a copy of this ad in for a free 32 oz drink with the purchase of any sandwich or pizza 
page 20 The Observer. SPORTS Thursday, September 20, 2001 
PGA 

Tour tees off near Penn. plane crash sight
..... 
Associated Press 
LIGONIER. Pa. 
Arnold Palmer longed for the day when the PGA Tour would come to his backyard. He only wished the circumstances were different. 
American flags hung from every pin at Laurel Valley Golf Club, locat­ed about 15 miles from where one of the hijacked airliners plowed into a field. Some players canceled their flights and drove to west­ern Pennsylvania, still uneasy about flying. 
The chatter on the practice range was muted. Stewart Cink carefully removed the fairway metals from his bag because Fred Funk's wife was painting it, making 50 white dots as the final touch on the American flag. 
"It's good to be playing again," Cink said. 
Still, he couldn't get his mind off the United Airlines flight that passengers apparently took back from hijackers and perhaps averted another strike at a land­mark, possibly the White House or even Camp David. Palmer has friends at Laurel Valley who saw the plane pass by. 
"My heart is telling me I should go to the crash site," Cink said. "I feel very strongly about what happened last week. We all do. I want to go pay my respects, say a prayer and say goodbye. Those people were heroes." 


..J 
The PGA Tour returns this week in the Pennsylvania Classic. Getting back to normal is another matter. 
"It's a tough week," said Palmer, a founder of Laurel Valley whose career was shaped just down the road at Latrobe. "We'll survive. The American people have known disaster. Our history tells you that we will come back. 
"We need to get on with our activities," he said. "The only concern I might have is that we don't forget what has hap­pened." 
That will be hard to do this week. The tour decided to place American flags on every green instead ofthe flags \-\ith the tour~ nament logo. The tournament will be halted Thursday at noon -just as it will ai every PGA Tour sanctioned event -for five minutes of reflection. A siren will sound to stop play, and a brief ceremony will take place on the 18th green, with audio equip­ment set up so that players can listen wherever they are on the course. 
"We want to get moving again, but it's not all business as usual." PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem said. "It's different, and what's happened to our country is different than any­thing that's ever happened. We want to focus on any little way that our sport can pay its respects and show support." 
The tour allowed for two extra spots in what is now a 158-man field. The additions are Palmer, the man responsible for bringing the PGA Tour to the Pittsburgh area, and U.S. Ryder Cup captain Curtis Strange. 
Five Ryder Cup players were late entries. They weren't plan­ning to play until next week's matches in England were post­poned for one year because of the terrorist attacks. 
"Guys are professionals. 

DAILYSPECIALS 
Rated #1 Hot Wings in the area 
Thursday: 
$200 Margaritas Karaoke 9pm -1 am 
They'll get back to work and they'll play," Strange said. "That's what the president has told all of America, is that we should carry on. I just thought by coming up here, and by a couple of other Ryder Cup players play­ing, it shows that we are moving on." 
Finchem said security on the PGA Tour, one of the few sports where the gallery has easy access to the athletes. has been increasing over the past five years. New measures in light of the attacks will include more security staff, a ban on back­packs and a search of all smaller bags, such as purses. 

The defending champion is Chris DiMarco, only he won the Pennsylvania Classic last year across the state at Waynesboro Country Club near Philadelphia. This is the only regular PGA Tour event that alternates cities. 
Laurel Valley has held two big tournaments, the 1965 PGA 
Championship and the 1975 · Ryder Cup. 
"This club wanted an event," Palmer said. ''I'm pretty close to the commissioner, and I'm also pretty close to the governor, and through various conversations we've worked up to where we are today." 
No one will care what he shoots this week. Palmer is responsible for bringing golf to the masses some 40 years ago, and he remains one of the most endearing figures in sports. 
And while a winner will be determined Sunday, the goal for the week seems to be getting back to the business of golf ­without forgetting the tragedy. 
"I don't think anyone can dis­miss thoughts of last week," DiMarco said. "I can forget about it for five hours while I play golf, and then it's still right there when I'm done. So, I'm just going to go out and try to focus and play golf." 
Ii. 
/J"_\ 

. . ../t~·J··:{?J. r·'·-,, 
.....~.. 'II • ,..,.. ,.,.;, . ,~-{:­
~ i. 1; \,·.· ?' 
U.IJYfLZWU 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK AND PANCAKE BREAKFAST SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 11:00 -STEPAN CENTER 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $6.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE DEADLINE FOR ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS 9/28/00 AT 5:00PM STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
T-SHIRTS DONATED BY THE ND ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
-
.,nu,,~~!~. 

NBcinerna 
THURS DAY·~ SEPT 20 
HES r:JUF!G H Ll8RtA.FJY AUD l'TO f--?!UM 
7:DO Pf\-1 
FREE ADMISEll .,N 
Pf+.lU:C:1 t~ t-rn:r.~ f.r'-1' TH:~ O~P;\ff'l"Mt:.NT o,i:· F}LM, T!:::Lli:Vl~ION ANO ·nrit/4.'H'.t::: 
l}<:n! mits #Kl FffStiJdW:t tHm !.h;:)f.t !$h)!Y ~i.+-ttr NO.thwm~ f~J!i.m.iJ 
Thursday, September 20, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.rn. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
Followed by a Bonfire on Horv Cross Hill 


RCIA Inquiry Session 
10:00 a..rn. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 


Emmaus Kick-Off 
6:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
The Way Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 


Campus Bible Study 
7:00 p.m. 
114 Coleman-Morse Center Conference Room 


Freshman Retreat #36 · (September 28-29) 
Tuesday, August 28 through September 24 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

¦ Presiders 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Sat. September 22 Mass 
30 minutes after game 
Rev. David J. Scheidler, c,s,c. 

45 minutes afrer game (Stepan Center) 
Rev. Peter A. Jarret, c.s.c. 

Sun. September 23 Mass 
8:00a.m. 
Rev. William D. Seetch, c.s.c. 

ID:00 a.m. 
Rev. Peter A. Jarret, c.s.c. 

11:45a.m 
The Most Rev. Robert C. Morlino, c.s.c. Bishop of Helena, Montana 

¦ Sunda1(s Scripture Readings 
1st Reading Am 8: 4.7 
2nd Reading 1Tm 2: 1-8 Gospel lk 16: 1-13 or 16: 10-19 
...

I CAMPUS MINISTRY 
r, 

Crafting a New Kind of Love 0 
¦ by Chandra J. Johnson, Assistant to the President & Assistant Director of Cross-Cultural Ministry ~ 
u,

The gospel reading on September 11th was the story ofJesus choosing his apostles. Looking to God for direction and insight, he prayed all night. When the day came, he called his disciples ...... to himself, and from them, he chose the Twelve (Luke 6: 12-19). A dozen men with a dozen 
t::,

agendas would make up the small cir~le of friends who would leave their families and become itinerant companions to the slightly eccentric, curiously mysterious Jesus of Nazareth. Little did 
n,

they know when they awoke that morning that their encounter with Christ would teach them a new way to love. Their worlds would be turned upside down. I was in Chicago with my daughter, Kenya, when the twin towers of the World Trade Center 
=a 

and the Pentagon were attacked. We were standing in the holding area in Harpo Studios waiting 
:b.

to be seated on the set of the Oprah Show. We had planned this trip for weeks, and I had been anxiously anticipating the second visit in nine years of my first born child. It was a special mo­
--t
ment for us. 
......

We left South Bend at 5:30 a.m. Tuesday morning. At 7:30, we filed into Harpo Studios with other Oprah devotees. The atmosphere was a buzz as we wondered what the topic of the show 
0

would be. Without notice, the chatter was silenced by a picture ofa burning skyscraper which appeared suddenly on the remote televisions positioned overhead. Huddled in groups at each corner of the room, we depended on the silence to explain what was going on. Within minutes, ~ we were escorted into the studio. The executive producer walked calmly on the stage and in­
u,

formed us that the Pentagon had just been attacked. She said solemnly that Oprah would be out shortly to talk to us. • Obviously in the middle ofdressing for the show, Oprah Winfrey appeared on stage in her 
• 

robe, slippers, little makeup, and half-curled hair. I knew then that the day would be different. 
•

Schedules, routines and things like makeup, fashion-statements and manicured hair were no longer 
important. She informed the audience of the unfolding events and graciously greeted and thanked those who had come to the show. She later encouraged us to return to our homes ifat all possible. We left the studio in silence. 
Kenya and I returned to the toll road listening to the radio. By the rime we reached South Bend, it became clear that life in America would never be as we once knew it. When I got home, I was compelled to read the gospel for the day. I read the passage over and over. Apostle. Chosen. Called. Cured. Its message of transformation and good was as clear to me as the images of evil and horror shown on the television. Luke 6: 12-19 became the undoing of the carnage, destruction and loss oflife which will forever permeate 
our memory. 

As a University community, we search for ways to help our country and ourselves. How blessed we are to have the answer! As Catholics, as Christians, we must stand together and clinch tightly the cross of Christ to fight evil with love, respect and caring. As a community of believers, we must open our hearts and reconstruct our notions of national identity and tolerance. To transcend the painful effects ofsin and 
J ' 

unbridled malice, we must love differently. We must care differently. We must live differently. 
Let us begin this transformation by acknowledging the person we pass on the quad or in the dorm who we've never noticed before. Take a moment to say good morning, afternoon, or evening to a roommate, professor or hall monitor. Clean the sink, buy the snacks, or turn off the alarm when it first rings as a 
...._ symbol of consideration to your roommate(s). Phone parents, relatives and friends and let them know how much you love them. This weekend, enjoy the game and engage in conversations from the heart, dry and genuine without alcohol or other stimulants. Spend an hour or two helping a peer understand a subject that comes easy to you. Say something good about something or someone before the end of the day. Be present and attentive to the simplicity and beauty of humanity like never before. As for me, I spent the last night of my daughter's visit teaching her everything I know about Christ and his impact on the human race. Although she .was raised in the Catholic Church, Christianity takes on a whole new meaning when one reaches adulthood. I talked to her about Jesus' mother, his cousin John, and close friends. I imparted as much wisdom as I could about Catholicism, Christianity, integrity, woman­hood, Africentricity and honor. The events ofSeptember 11th prompted this spontaneous catechetical moment ... a moment she thanked me for as she boarded the train co return home to Oregon. Grateful for her companionship during such a horrific time, my minor contribution to change and transformation was to send her back home with a renewed image ofChrist. Back on campus, my colleague, Priscilla Wong, and I witnessed the coming together of students of color who, on Friday night in Sacred Heart Parish Center, introduced themselves and shared stories at a gathering which was coordinated by Cross Cultural Ministry in Campus Ministry. It was an outpouring of grace as Hispanic, African and Asian American students and others referred to themselves as brothers ... as sisters ... as freshmen comparing experiences and first-year impressions. The event was a visual of the Kingdom and the symbol of whom we are called to be at this moment in our national history. The University of Notre Dame is a special place. We are a praying people. Last week, we were called to renew our claim to Christ's example oflove. As disciples of Christ, we have been called to risk our allegiance to the many distractions that routinely tie us down. Let us re-commit our lives to good by seeking to touch him because power came forth from him and healed them all (v. 19). Today, Christ is calling us to hirr elf to minister, heal, and lead with love in ways which will strengthen and change our community and the world. The time is now. Ifwe don't respond, who will? 
,..,. 

page22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 20, 2001 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Flights banned over stadiums 
As,ociated Press 
Blimps and small planes flying over college football stadiums pulling banner advertisements will be rare sights this weekend. 
The Federal Aviation Administration has granted requests for several schools, including Clemson, Michigan and Penn State, to bar flights within a mile radius of their sta­diums and up to an altitude of 3,000 feet. 
School officials nationwide have been tightening security at stadiums after last week's ter­rorist attacks in New York and Washington. 
On Wednesday, the FAA approved the requests on a "no­fly zone" for Saturday's Virginia­Clemson and Wisconsin-Penn State games. 
On Tuesday, Michigan received permission for its Saturday home game. with Western Michigan. 
Notre Dame, which plays host to Michigan State on Saturday, was awaiting word on its request for a "no-fly zone." 
"Even if I hear a plane fly over head right now I get a little ner­vous," Notre Dame linebacker Courtney Watson said. 
Molti Bene 
Catalino's Trattoria Downtown South Bend 
"Hopefully it won't happen dur­ing a play and affect somebody. You'll think about it, but hope­fully it will be in the back of your mind during the game." 

FAA southern region spokesman Christopher White said similar "no-fly zones" will be in effect for Thursday night's South Carolina at Mississippi State game. Other games with "no-fly zones" include Florida at Kentucky, Arkansas at Alabama, Florida State at North Carolina and VMI at Furman, White said. 
Florida State will return home to a plane-free stadium, too. The FAA approved a request for restricted airspace over Doak Campbell Stadium during Seminoles home games this year until further notice, as well as at nearby Florida A&M University. 

I 

Beaver coach charged 
. Oregon State assistant charged with tampering 
Associated Press 

CORVALLIS, Ore. 
An Oregon State assistant football coach was charged with tampering with evidence to help his son, who is accused of threatening five teenage girls with a handgun. 
Eric Yarber, 37, was arrested Monday after telling investiga­tors he threw the weapon into a river. Police said he refused to show officers where. 
"I didn't do that," Yarber said Monday. "They can allege any­thing they want. I will fully cooperate with the investigation once my son has talked to a la½'}'er." 
Hobert Yarber and Matthew Benson, both 17, went to a 
The University of Nurre Dcune Deparunent of Musjc Presents 
2001 q,,,,,1 _A,1.,1 S.,,.,. 

Christian Ringendah/ 
organ 
Sunday, September 23, 2001 8 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Thi, Concert Is Free and Open to the Public 
for more information, pk;ue call (219)6Jl-6201, email conpfi@nd,edu or 11i5il vw,,wntfedu/-r.ongoerj 

I 

I 


atholic Invitational 
Fridav, September 21 Women begin at 4:15pmMen begin at 5pm 
Features the 2000 champions,Notre Dame's Luke Watson and Megan Johnson 
Corvallis home on Aug .. 14 where five girls had gathered, said Benton County Sheriff's Deputy Al Schermerhorn. Robert Yarber accused the girls of throwing eggs at Benson's car earlier that day. 
"Mr. Yarber pointed a gun at two of the girls, cocked 
Schermerhorn said the two are charged with burglary because they entered the home with the intention of commit­ting a crime. 
Eric Yarber was released from the Benton County Jail several hours after his arrest Monday. The two teens 

the gun, pointed it at one girl's  "/ didn't do that. They can allege anything they  were sent to the Linn­Benton  
head  and  want."  Juvenile  
pulled  the  Detention  
trigger," Schermer­ Eric Yarber  Center in Albany.  
horn  said.  assistant coach  Benson,  a  
The gun was  student  at  
not loaded.  Corvallis  

Hobert Yarber was charged High School, was released, but with burglary, unauthorized Robert Yarber remained in use of a weapon, pointing a detention, Schermerhorn said. firearm at another, menacing Eric Yarber, who coaches the and carrying a concealed Beavers' wide receivers, has weapon. Benson was charged worked with the team since with burglary. 1999. 

"Let the rhythm take you over'' 
DANCE CLUB 
THIRSTY THURSDAY IS STUDENT ID NIGHT LADIES GET IN FREE, GUYS COVER ONLY $1.00 
MUST BE 21 TO ENTER 
HOURS Thurs & Fri 5pm -2:J0am Saturday 8pm -2:30am 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE 
www.clubbailamos.com 
Phone: 25-SWING (257-9464) 
Located in the 100 Center Complex 100 Center Street• Mishawaka • Indiana 
Thursday, September 20, 200 I The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 



Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
Thursday, September 20, 2001 
Firmwide Information Session for Juniors and Seniors University Club, Stadium Room 
6:00 -8:00 PM 
Monday, September 24, 2001 Operations, Finance & Resources Information Session Center for Continuing Education, Room 100 7:00 -9:00 Pr~ 


MINDS. WIDE OPEN~M www.gs.com 
Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local laws.© 2001 Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 20, 2001 
Football 
continued from page 28 
Watson was surprised that his 18 tackles earned him the player of the game award. He had no idea how many tackles he made or that he even won the award until he got Watson would shine in his first start. Mattison said he wasn't surprised that Watson made 18 tackles. 
"Courtney worked very hard in camp and I am a firm believer that you play how you practice," the defensive coor• dinator said. "Courtney is an intelligent young man. He played behind Anthony 
back to South "1 know Courtney's going 
Bend and to be a great player. He's spoke with his 
a tremendous athlete." 
mother. 
"I was like 'Player of the Rocky Boiman game? We 
senior linebacker 
didn't even win the game,"' he remembers telling his mother. "I was just trying to think of the things I did that would warrant that 
kind of credit." 
Watson's coaches and team­mates, however, know he deserves plenty of praise for his play. 
"I know Courtney's going to be a great player," senior line­backer Rocky Boiman said. "He's a tremendous athlete. He's got some things to learn but he's going to be great." 
Defensive coordinator Greg Mattison had no doubt that 
{Denman] last year so he had a chance to watch and got some playing time last year. I wasn't sur­prised [by his success I at all." 
W h e n 
Watson was first recruited by Notre Dame, however, great­ness was not necessarily expected. Head coach Bob Davie recruited him as a tail­back and admits that Watson wasn't considered one of the top recruits in his class. 
After his freshman year at Notre Dame, Watson switched from offense to defense and became the heir apparent to Denman at weakside line­backer. 
Giving up the glory and fame that playing offense can bring 
was tough, but Watson says he can get plenty of attention on defense too. 
"If you score a touchdown, you are the best -the great­est -even if its just a one­yard run," he said. "Now I get glory in different ways. You make a sack or a fumble recovery or a big tackle, or stop them on fourth down. Those kind of things can bring me glory now." 
But just because Watson's job is to stop touchdowns rather than score touchdowns doesn't mean he lost all his moves. 
"I would love to get my hands on the ball one time to show everyone I still got it," he said. 
So if you see a loose ball this Saturday, don't expect Watson to take the safe way out and fall on it. 
He's not worried about embarrassing himself any­more. 
'Tm taking it to the house," he said. "J've told the other guys, if you see a ball on the ground and I am running toward it, get ready because I am picking it up. I am taking it to the house." 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 



C-M 
Campus Ministry 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 

five minutes into the second half'. 
The next 20 minutes saw another offensive struggle, as both the Vikings' and Irish defenses stepped up their games and lulled the few fans remaining in atten­dance. 
Braun then broke the trance with just over 10 min­utes left in the game, as he took a lead pass from Detter and lobbed a shot past a charging Kryger to 
provide the 

"That was the first time moment
final margin 

we've been behind and of silence
of victory for 
w a s

the Irish. come back to win. " 
observed,
The Irish 
and the
improved 

Bobby Clark I r i s h
their record 
players

against head coach 
Cleveland State to 3-0. 

After the game, Clark sang the praises of his team. 
"I think the biggest posi­tive, was that was the first time we've been behind and come back to win," Clark said. "I felt once we got set and tied the game up that we were always going to win the game. I think B.J. Cotter -who had to fill in for our injured captain Griffin Howard -I thought he just did everything that was asked of him. It was all around a good perfor­mance." 
The paid attendance at the 
game was announced as 221, which includes about 150 season ticket holders. However, a quick glance at the crowd indicated figures much less than that, as roughly 50 bravo fans hud­dled in blankets and under umbrellas to watch an Irish victory. 
It was also a very aggres• sive game, with three yellow cards issued during the game. Only one was called on the Irish. 
The game was played with the American flag at half'­staff in observance of the tragedies of last week in New York. 
In addi­
tion, a 
added an American 
flag  to  
their uniforms.  
Clark  admitted that  he  

likes his team's chances when the Irish face up against Big East rival Rutgers on Saturday night. 
"The game against Rutgers we'll be up at another level. but I think they'll be up another level as well, so we'll be looking forward to it." 
That game will kick off Saturday at 7:30 at Alumni Field. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 


Thursday, September 20, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
UNION 
I 
I 
•-·. --~----s;:;:;..,...;:;;e~t.,.,,,;:_,_l8 -sept 25 I 
Pressure doesn't faze Irish 
For someone who was never a die-hard fan of Notre Dame sports growing up, it recently occurred to me that I 
know a lot more about Notre Dame foot­ball than I really ever should. 
I think the reality 


of the situa­Colin Boylantion hit me last week, when I was 
Boylan's

discussing 
Banter

Notre Dame's 1993 sea­son, their last "championship­caliber" year, with a couple of my friends. One of my buddies made a comment about the devastating loss to USC that knocked the team out of the No. 1 national ranking. 
"Actually," I replied, 'Tm pretty sure they lost to Roston College." 
Or maybe it was in a conver­sation with my dad over the summer in which he referred to former Irish quarterback Rick Mirer as "that NFL Europe QB." 
Of course, I was quick to point out that the quarterback he was thinking of was actually Ron Powlus and not Mirer (in a couple of months, I'm pretty 
r 
ND Erasmus Lecture by Shirley Williams, Baroness Williams of Crosby. 
I I 
I I I I 
I 
I I I 
sure we'll both be correct, but that's beside the point). 
As harmless as these exchanges were, they got me asking myself: Why do I know all these useless bits of Notre Dame information? 
Sure. I consider myself to be pretty knowledgeable about the world of sports. But you won't find me listing off the names of any Florida State quarterbacks or Nebraska running backs. Hell, I probably couldn't even name half the starting lineup for the UCLA Bruins -and they're my favorite team. 
So why on earth do I know so much about a team that for the first 18 years of my life I couldn't care less about? 
I guess the answer is rela­tively simple. Notre Dame foot­ball is always under a micro­scope of immense proportions. Like it or not, this is the Mecca of college football. In a way that goes beyond the national rankings and beyond the NBC television contract, our football team is what defines us as a school to a large proportion of this country. 
When a couple of my friends were passing through South Bend on a road trip last week­end, I offered them a brief tour of the campus. They gazed at the Basilica, strolled through the LaFortune Student Center and endured the long trek to the bookstore, unimpressed by 

4:00pm.  Hesburgh Center Aud.  
"The Dish", ND Cinema.  
7:00 pm.  Hesburgh Center Aud.  free.  

AcoustiCafe. 9:00pm -midnight. Lafortune Huddle. 'Bridget Jones;s Diary'' and "Save the Lost Dance". 10:00pm. 101 & 155 DeBartolo. Actors from the London Stage in A Midsummer Night's Dream. 7:30pm. Washington Holt 
...
-.-~F~o-ot=b-al=I~pe=p~r-a-lly~.· 

@P 


1:00-7:00pm. Stepan Center 
Joyce Center. Actors from the London Stage in A Midsummer Night's Dream. 7:30pm . _ Washington Hall Junior Class & Campus Ministry Bonfire. 9:00-11 :00pm. Holy Cross Hill. Dance "Boy Bands vs. Teen Divas• l 0:00pm-1 :00am. LaFun Ballroom free. "Bridget Jones's Diary" and "Save the Last Dance'. 7:30 & 10:00e_m. -~-----101 & 155 DeBartolo. ND Football Horne vs. Michigan Slate l :30pm. Sophomore Class Movie on the Quad •rop Gun" 
9:22pm. free food and free give-aways Actors from the London Stage in A Midsummer Night's Dream. 
I 

7:30pm . Washington Hall "Bridget Jones's Diary" and "Save the Last Dance". 
I 

7:30 & 10:00pm. 101 & 155 DeBartolo. $2/$3 
..........................................................." ..........................._._........_....................................................................................~~....-.,......-.........................us,,_...........,.....................................................................__~ 
Campus-wide Run/Walk to benefit Aro Parsegion Foundation I The Vermeer Quartet 2:00pm. Snite $3 @ laFun Box Office. Christian Ringendahl Organ Concert 8:00pm. Basilica free 
I 

much of it. 
They were saving the film in their camera for a tour of the football stadium. That is how they wanted to remember their visit to Notre Dame. 
Can you imagine what type of pressure that is for the play­ers that have._to suit up every Saturday and put on the on the face by which most of America will define our university? 
When I miss an assignment, I know that I can likely turn it in the next day for a minimal penalty. When these guys miss an assignment, they get seven points the wrong way, a flood of comments and questions inquiring about their lack of preparedness. 
Teams everywhere want to crush Notre Dame. Powerhouses like Nebraska schedule two games prior to playing us so that they won't look rusty when the time comes. Upstarts like Oregon State prepare their post-game comments in advance (as occurred when several differ­ent OSU players referred to the Irish as a "pitiful powerhouse" after last year's Fiesta Bowl) in hopeful anticipation of defeat­ing such a storied program. 
[t's almost enough to make one feel sympathy for the much-maligned Bob Davie, who must overcome every opposing coordinator's best effort every week. 
And while in truth, the same 
m--NltE 
could be said of many other coaches of top teams across the country, no one must do so under as much scrutiny as Davie (as a side note: does any­one ever remember a coach whose fortunes have fluctuated so rapidly in a two and a half year span? I mean, from 5-7, to coach of the year finalist, to suffering two of the worst loss­es in recent memory? Wow. what a roller coaster). 
Folks, I'll be completely hon­est. I don't really think that Bob Davie is the second com­ing of Frank Leahy. And I'm not entirely convinced that this Irish squad has enough talent to hang with some of the top teams in the nation. 
But I do think that this team has the heart and desire to grind out a very good year, even by Notre Dame stan­dards. 
Even if we never climb into the top 10 this year. even if we don't upset Tennessee, even if we don't make a repeat appearance in the BCS, I think this year's team will show col­lege football fans across the country what handling pres­sure is all about. 
And I'll cheer for that. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe writer and not necessarily those of the Observer. Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu 
-, 
I I I I I 

___,______ $2/$3 ____ 
I I 
I I 
free. 
I 
$2/$3. 
I 

Volleyball 
continued from page 28 
"We just lacked that killer instinct," said head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. "When you win those first two, you have to put the game away. Our focus changed from playing to win to playing not to lose. Our confi­dence seemed to drop after the second game. We came out very confident in the first two but couldn't maintain that level." 
Despite their ·greenness, the freshmen still made significant contributions. Freshman Ellise Rupright was second on the team with ten kills, one less than junior Elizabeth Albert's eleven. Bridget Wakaruk and Michelle Gary, both freshmen, led the team with three aces apiece. Gary also chipped in ten digs. Senior captain Angela Meyers paced the team with a game high 34 digs, despite eight hitting errors. 
Having lost six of their last seven matches, the Belles return home looking for their elusive third win. They face Adrian on Friday night at 6 
p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. Schroeder-Riek expects a match very similar to last night's contest. 
'Tm expecting another tough, even match. It should be a lot like Kalamazoo," she said. 
This time she hopes for a bet­ter result. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.edu. 
Emmaus Kick-OffI 
6:00-7:00_ern. Coleman-Morse Center. I sponsored by 
"Life Skills l O l n Student Safely Presentation 
I Student Union 6:00pm. Alumni-Senior Club. lnt'I film Festival "L'America~ from 11oly
Executive CabinetI 7:00 & 9:00pm. Mont. Theatre, LaFun. 
~-: 
Page 26 

The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 20, 2001 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles drop more than game in loss to Hornets 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Edi tor 
It was a bad day for the Belles. Going into Wednesday's soccer match against Kalamazoo, Saint Mary's wasn't expecting a victory, but the 9-1 loss they suffered, along with another injury to junior Heather Muth, was more than the team expected. 
"I think that our team, since we're mostly freshmen, didn't know what to expect," Muth said. "[Head coach Bobby Johnston] was coming in blind. Most of our team has never seen these girls before." 
From the moment they stepped on the field, the Hornets dominated play. During the first half, they scored six goals while hold­ing the Belles scoreless. 
For the first time in MIAA play this season, the Belles didn't score first. 
"I think it slowed us down," Muth said. "After you score, your energy is really strong. Starting today from behind is really difficult." 
Recovering from the 6-0 halftime deficit was an unre­alistic goal for Saint Mary's. So the focus in the last 45 minutes of the game was to play hard and not let Kalamazoo dominate. 
"Our coach said the right 
things to us at halftime," 
Muth said. "fie told us it 
wasn't realistic to come ·back 
and score six goals. That we 
had to come out there and 
win the second half and not 
let them control." 
Although the Hornets got three more shots past fresh­men goal-keeper Maureen MacDonald, the Belles scored their only goal of the game to prevent a shut-out. 
Sophomore Stephanie Artnak took a throw in from the side and passed to Jen Concannon who cleared Kalamazoo goalie Adrienne Beller for the score. 
"[Concannon] just made the perfect shot that no goalie could get," Muth said. 
The fact that morn than half of the Saint Mary's team is first year players didn't help. The Hornets took advantage of that inexperi­ence. Four of the nine goals the Hornets scored came off of corner kicks allowed by Saint Mary's mistakes. 
"There were things that just didn't happen," Muth said. "They were stupid mis­takes and Kalamazoo capi­talized on all of them." 
In addition to losing the game, the Belles suffered another loss. Muth, a junior forward who has only been playing part of the game due to an injury she suffered over the summer, fell to yet another misfortune. Halfway through the first-half, she went for the ball and was struck in the jaw by a Kalamazoo player. 

"I remember my head snapped back and I got real­ly dizzy," she said. 
After talking with the trainer it seems likely that Muth has a mild concussion, but there has been no defi­nite prognosis. Her status for this weekend's game is ques­tionable. 
Muth sat out most of last season due to a head injury and was still not in top shape for Wednesday's game. 
Saint Mary's is now 0-3 in the MIAA. 0-5 overall, and Wednes-dav's loss took its effect on team moral. 
"I think its been difficult for our team to have played some of the best teams in our conference in the first weeks of our schedule," Muth said. "This week we have some really important games that we're looking to win to get our spirits up." 
The Belles play two games this weekend, the first against league competition Olivet and the other against Rose Holman. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 





What does the Church teach? Why does it matter? Have questions and need a place to ask them? Each one credit course in the series "Know Your Catholic Faith" will reflect on a central feature of the Catholic faith, so that students come away with a clear idea of what the Church holds on these topics as well as a basic theological and personal understanding of them. The courses will be based on the Catechism of the Catholic Church plus other pertinent texts, supplemented by personal reflection and experiential learning where appropriate. These courses should meet the needs of those students who know little or nothing about the faith, as well as those who are familiar with the faith but do not feel they have a clear grasp of certain features of Christian doctrine. The courses will be presented in a variety of formats and venues. 
Courses available this Fall: 
The Sacraments 
Theo. 3408. 1 credit. S/U 
Prayer
Instructor: Pamela Jackson 

Theo. 340A. 1 credit. S/U
Wednesdays, 5:30 p.m. -7:35 p.m., 

Instructor: Lawrence Cunningham 
Oct. 3, 10, 17, 31, Nov. 7, 14 Sundays, 6:15 p.m.-8:20 p.m., 

Coleman Morse Center Sept. 30, Oct. 7, 14, Nov. 4, 11, 18 Coleman Morse Center 


Creation 
i Theo. 340C. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: John Cavadini For further infonnation about registering for these courses, contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department . 
.~. Mondays, 6:00 p.m.-8:05 p.m., 
Syllabifor the courses can be obtained at the Theology Dept. 
-Oct. 8, 15, 29, Nov. 5, 12, 20 
main office, or at Campus Ministry main office, ~.4illllll Keough Hall Common Room approximatc!J two weeks before the beginning of the class. 

Thursday, September 20, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 27 
RYANTOM KEELEY 

BEMUSED AND BEFUDDLEDFOURTH AND INCHES 
CUNNINGHAM 

IN FACT. IT'S JUS
OH, GEEZ. THE F:tR.ST WAIT A SECOND•.. THEN 

l>REl>S Of HARi> TE
WHAT? J\FTER THIS HARi>EN17INEERIN& TEST OF AFTER ANOTHER,

MY COLLEGE CAREER. THE TEST WILL COME ANOTHER PRESSURE IS ON. I HAVE ANI> THEN ANOTHEll EVEN TO ACE THIS ONE. HARDER TEST AfTE.R THAT. 
BILL AMEND

FOXTROT 
MOM, :JASoN PETER,

THE KIDS OH, YEAH. Al<E THEY'RE 
I JUST WANiED To MAKE 
1S LIGHTIN6 THE QUIET. I'M

SURE. YoU SEEMED PIZETTY LEAV1N6 BEING REALLY,
HI, AND'l', 
FENCE ON FIRE. ON THE

ORuGGED ouT BY TH,6,T '1'0U REALLY C,OoO, 
How's THE FINE. 
~rO_! Pt-toNE WITH
OEl:ONGESTANT WHEN l

DAY ~01NG'? WH'1'? 


EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 34 Source of ad-69 Bris, e.g. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON and allow you to mingle with free TV THIS DAY: Robert Wagner, important people. Play the game, 
1 Turf defenders 
Roberta Flack, Laura Dem, Greg and you'll be sure to advance. 000
36 Quote, part 3

5 Wee, in Dundee DOWN Norman,, Dame Judith Anderson, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 40 PC key George Stephanopoulos Take trips to visit old friends.
8 What you will 1 Hair goop, e.g. 
Happy Birthday: This will be Relaxation and social activities
41 Windmill blade 

14 Like many a 2 Sawbones' org. a great year if you exercise extra should be penciled in. You need professor 42 Ballantine of discipline. This is the time to to get away from the humdrum
3 Pince-_

Ballantine Books focus on your true desires and to of your everyday routine. 000
16 Ovid work 
45 Keystone's place 4 Show sorrow push yourself to achieve the LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 
17 Start of a quote goals that have been out of reach Don't let others in on your secrets. 
5 Super bargain 

48 _ de Calais for so long. It is your turn to You can arrange something very 
18 Prepares for 
6 Juilliard subj. stand up and be counted and to special for the one you love. VIBi­
49 Fully sufficient 

further ­
let others know that you mean tors in your home may be more
skirmishes 51 End of the quote 7 Dolt 
business. Speak your mind, fol­than you can handle. 000 19 Heathrow fig. 55 For example 8 Countesses' low your dreams, and you won't SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): be disappointed. Your numbers: Travel and entertainment will go
husbands

20 Off one's feeid 56 Just discovered 
5, 8, 13, 17, 23, 41 hand in hand. New romantic 21 40's agcy. 57 Go for the gold 9 Something in a ARIES (March 21-April 19): encounters will be stimulating. trash heap You can gain the most throughbusi­Fund-raising events will lead to
22 Quote, part 2 58 Ham 
ness engagements or conversations interesting connections. 0000
10_man

28 Suez sight 60 Source of the concerning work. Push your ideas SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
(everyone)

quote past important people. Your practi­21): This is not the day to push
29 Kind of cross 
11 Roadway cal approach will pay off. 000 your beliefs or attitudes on oth­30 Makes a 65 Keep TAURUS (April 20-May 20): ers. Do your own thing, but don't
markings

cat's-paw of 66 Ballerina Your efforts have not gone unno­be offended if others would pre­12 Part of the head ticed. Family outings will bring fer to forgo your challenge. 00 31 To boot 67 Amplifier setting you closer together. You can CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
13 Bacon bits 

32 ·va-va-va-_._!" 68 Aphid milker make a big difference to kids if Put your efforts into creative 15 Minor third or you spend time helping them endeavors or activities with chil­flatted fifth with their goals. 00000 dren. You need to lose yourself in GEMINI (May 21-June 20): events that will take your mind
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 20 Letters of 
Your feelings will be easily hurt. off your worries. 0000 
Puzzle by Rlc:hn Hughes 

Excessive eating and drinking AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 38 Like the Great 52 Newsman 60 AZr approver will only add insult to injury. Look into ways to turn your Delay or postpone important financial situation around. Don't
Plains Roger 
61 Did a 10K, e.g. social activities. You need some hesitate to sign deals that involve 39 Pound's sounds 53 Phileas Fogg's time to yourself. 00 other people's money or proper·
62 Him, to Henri 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): ty. You need to market yourself.
creator
43 The Lion of God 

63 Believer You will get along well with You have a lot to offer, but you 44 Bottom line 54 _-gardism your partner. Don't let friends or have to convince influential indi­64 Alumna bio relatives know too much about viduals to use your skills. 000
45 Defend, as 

59 Slot filter word your personal life. Rumors will PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):one's rights hurt your reputation. 0000 You're in the mood for love. Clum­LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): nel your energy into special inter­
46 Gadabout 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle Don't be afraid to spend a little ludes with your mate. Spend qual­47 Rancher's are available by touch-tone phone: money on worthwhile causes. You ity time together, and you won't nuisance 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute). need to get involved in fund-raisers need or want company. 000 that wilr enhance your reputation
C others 48 Nave bench Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 Birthday Baby: You are inventive, proactive and definitely ahead of 
E R I ~::-+:-:+::--A L Y 37 Nuclear fission 50 Ralph of "Kiss 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. your time. You can set new trends and persuade others to follow your
D Y E ~=~ L E X discoverer Otto Me Deadly" 
dreams. You are powerful, progressive and positive. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astrornate.com.) 
C> 2001 Universal Press Syndicate

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and event~ in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 1',3,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. \ 
\ 
...... 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
..... 

l_ 
Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. SMC Soccer, p. 26 
. NCAA Football, p. 22 
. 
Column: Boylan, p. 25 . PGA, p. 20 

. 
McNair, p. 18 

. 
NFL, p. 16




PORTS 
Thursday, September 20, 2001 
ND MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish sink Vikings 
. Notre Dame defeats Cleveland State 3-1 behind two Justin Detter goals 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Writer 

< 
It was a case of making the best of a bad sit­uation. Coming off of a two-game losing streak, down a goal early and facing foul weather, the Irish responded. 
Justin Detter scored two goals and had an assist, and Erich Braun added a goal and an assist, as the Irish men's soccer team over­came an early first half deficit and lousy play­ing conditions as Notre Dame defeated Cleveland State, 3-1, and evened their season record to 2-2. 
"It was an easy day for mistakes to have been caused [due to the weather], but at the end of the day it was a very good perfor­mance," Notre Dame head coach Bobby Clark said. 
Cleveland State jumped out to an early lead, as Viking forward Joachim Walker took the Irish defense by surprise and headed a pass from teammate Misha Kavlov past Irish goalie Greg Tait to put the Vikings up 1-0 with 3 3 minutes remaining in the half. 
The remainder of the first half was an offen­sive struggle, as each team struggled to con­vert on their offensive chances. 
Notre Dame capitalized late in the first half, as Detter maneuvered his way around several Viking defenders and put a shot past goalie James Kryger to tie the score at 1 heading into halftime. 
The Irish struck again early in the second half, as Detter once again slipped one past Kryger, this time off a crossing pass from Erich Braun, giving Notre Dame a 2-1 edge 
see SOCCER/page 24 


FOOTBALL 

Watson becomes key 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Wricer 
While Nebraska rammed the ball down Notre Dame's throat on the opening drive of the 2001 football season, first-year starter Courtney Watson was completely over­whelmed. The Cornhuskers' speed, strength and crowd noise were too much for the junior weakside linebacker. 
"It was my first start and on that first play things seemed like the were going 100 miles per hour," he said. 
As Nebraska moved closer and closer to the Irish goal line. Watson started gaining a little confidence. On first and goal from the Nebraska three-yard line, Watson stepped up and stuck Nebraska I-back Dahrran · Dedrick after a one-yard gain. Suddenly the bewil­dered first-time starter felt like a grizzled veteran. 

All the pre-game jitters and first game nervousness left him when he hit Dedrick. 
"I am done with that. I lost that back in the first quar­ter," Watson said. "Not it's just about playing football which I've been doing forev­er." 
After that goal-line tackle on Dedrick, Watson played 
inside linebacker. He finished the game with 18 tackles and the Chevrolet Player of the Game Award. 
Not bad for a guy who says he made a lot of mistakes and still sees room for improve­ment. He thinks he can make even more tackles in the future. 
"A couple of times, I over­ran plays, ran past the quar­terback." he said. "There were a couple of times I could have made plays in the back­field but I ran right by them. I just need to try not to make every play and just do my part to help the defense." 

like he'd been the starting see FOOTBALL/page 24 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles drop close game to Hornets 
By MATT MOONEY 
Sports Writer 
So close, yet so far away. 

The Saint Mary's volleyball team couldn't get much closer to victory than they did on Wednesday night. Looking for their third win in Kalamazoo, the Belles fell just short. They lost in a 3-2 heartbreaker, 30­28, 30-24, 20-30, 17-30, 9-15. 
After taking the first two games, it appeared as though the Belles might leave town with an easy sweep. That was when the difference in team experience began to show 
through. 
While Saint Mary's struggled with its lack of experience, Kalamazoo's 10 returning play­ers took advantage of it. In the third game, the Hornet burst out to a 7-0 lead and never looked back. They took both the third and fourth games forcing a deciding fifth game. 
In the final game, Kalamazoo quickly took control. blocking the first four Belle attacks. Once again, Saint Mary's found itself in a deep hole and was unable to recover. The Belles dropped the game 15-9. 
see VOLLEYBALL/page 25 

. ND Cross Country Invitational, Friday, 4:15 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. ND Women's Soccer vs. Villanova, Friday, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 

online classifieds 
. SMC Volleyball vs. Adrian, Friday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Football vs. Michigan State, Saturday, 1:30 p. m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 
..... 
IndianapolisMuseumofArt 
1200 West 38th Street 317.923.1331 317.920.2679 Group Sales 
www.ima-art.org 
Call 1.866.5 GO TSAR for tickets.· 
s e p t e m b e r 2 3 , 2 0 0 1, ­
I 
·I 

This silver and gilt heraldic eagle was presented to Tsar Alexei Mikhailovich in 1671 as a gift from King Michael Wisniowiecki of Poland. Standing nearly 35 inches tall, this eagle is holding in its talons the imperial orb and scepter. The flat plate at the top of the eagle's head may have served as a stand for a royal crown. 
This exhibition is organized by the Indianapolis Museum of Art in collaboration with The State Historical-Cultural Museum Preserve, Moscow Kremlin. 
This exhibttion is supported by an indemnity from the Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities. 
Promotional support of this exhibition is sponsored, in part, by Marsh Supermarkets. 
Additional support has been provided by Lilly Endowment Inc., Anna S. and James P. White, Indianapolis Monthly, the Arts Council of Indianapolis, the Indiana Arts Commission, the Indiana Humanities Council, and the National Endowment for the Arts. 
J a n u a r y 1 3 , 2 0 0 2 
-
~ ~ ;......, •. ";.A,-°'-·: ff" --,
~ 




© Dance Kaleidoscope 

317.940.6555 I www.dancekal.org 
® Indianapolis Art Center 317.255.2464 I www.indplsartcenter.org 
© Indianapolis Chamber Orchestra 317.940.9607 I www.icomusic.org 
© Indianapolis Opera 

317.283.3470 I www.indyopera.org 
(4) Indianapolis Symphonic Choir 317.940.6461 I www.indychoir.org 
(J) Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra 
317.639.4300 or 800.366.8457 www.indyorch.org 

Russian Treasures Babushka's Deli
"War and Peace" (1968) Gardens ofthe Tsarinas A Russian Festival & The Firebird INDIANAPOLIS MUSEUM OF ART Margrethe Floryan, PhD INDIANAPOLIS SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA 
1248 West 86th Street, BALLET INTERNATIONALE Part I -November 3 Curator at the Thorvaldsen Museum January 4, 5, 11, 12 Indianapolis September 21, 22 Part II -November 4 On January 4 and 5, Conductor Drnitry
in Copenhagen 317.843.1920 
Russian Treasures is a compilation of music The original Russian-language film version INDIANAPOLIS MUSEUM OF ART Sitkovetsky and the Choir of the Russian Tu-F, 10 a.m.-8 p.m.; by Russian composers Tchaikovsky, Glazynov, of Leo Tolstoy's novel. Directed by Sergei November29 Choral Academy of Moscow will perform Sat. & Sun. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Minkus and others. The Firebird was created Bondarchuk. (English subtitles.) Dr. Floryan will trace the development highlights from Borodin and Prokofiev. On Closed Monday by Artistic Director Eldar Aliev while Igor of the Russian garden tradition during January 11 and 12, conductor Pavel Kogan Stravinsky composed the music score. the tsarinas· rule. in the dual context of will conduct Tchaikovsky, Rachmaninov Russia House Restaurant
LECTliRES 
Russian roots and Western influence. 
1475 West 86th Street,
and Scriabin. 

The Fairy's Kiss Indianapolis German Silver Treasures for the
(Le Baiser de la fee) 317.876.7990 Princes ofthe HolyRoman Empire M-Th, 5:30p.m.-9:30 p.m.;DANCE KALEIDOSCOPE/ 
Lorenz Seelig, PhD F & Sat., 5:30 p.m.-10 p.m.;
INDIANAPOLIS CHAMBER ORCHESTRA/ 
The Fairy's Kiss A Russian Visitor, Count Serge

Curator of Metalwork, Bavarian National Closed SundayCLOWES MEMORIAL HALL 
(Le Baiser de la fee)

Museum, Munich, Germany Grigorievich Karpovsld
October 5, 6, 7 
DANCE KALEIDOSCOPE/

INDIANAPOLIS MUSEUM OF ART CONNER PRAIRIE Indianapolis Museum ofArt
The Fairy's Kiss is a one-act ballet com­
INDIANAPOLIS CHAMBER ORCHESTRA/ 
Saturdays & Sundays:

posed by Igor Stravinsky, modeled from October 16 Gifts to the Tsars Sunday Brunches 
CLOWES MEMORIAL HALL

A world authority on silver will discuss the September 23-January 13 October 6-January 13Tchaikovsky's Sleeping Beauty. 
October 5, 6, 7

strong tradition ofmetal-smithing in Germany. Count Karpovski. a Russian count passing Sundays only
(See info. under Dance.) 

through, will interact with visitors to the
The Nutcracker 
1836 village of Prairietown.
Gifts to the Tsars Symposium

BALLET INTERNATIONALE 
Sacred Arts Performance:
INDIANAPOLIS MUSEUM OF ART

December 20, 21, 22, 23 
Russian Music and Art, Workshop: Professional
October 25

Ballet Internationale and more than 100 Seven prominent scholars will explore 1859-1935 Development for Teachers ­
children perform this holiday favorite with Exclusive packages for Gifts to the Tsars. broad topics of Russian history and religion, INDIANAPOLIS SYMPHONIC CHOIR A Glittering History: Teaching
the Indianapolis Chamber Orchestra under 1500-1700 Treasures from the Kremlin as well as specific types of gifts found in the October 28
Russian conductor Oleg Belunstov. Politics and the Past through Art are available at these fine hotels. All 
exhibition and the artists that created them. A program of Russian choral music. 
INDIANAPOLIS MUSEUM OF ART 
packages include overnight accommo­
All-Night Vigil by lppolitov Ivanov, and 
November 14 
dations and two adult tickets for the

historical commentary on period works
Princely Treasure Explore the association of art and the 
exhibition. plus other great offers. Contact of art.
Geza von Habsburg, PhD politics of power using the Gifts to the 
the Indianapolis Convention and Visitors 
~hip Art historian, guest curator, lecturer 
Tsars exhibition. 
Association to make Gifts to the Tsars 

INDIANAPOUS ART CENTER and author Eugene Onegin lnformance 
weekend package reservations at

November 16-December 16 INDIANAPOLIS MUSEUM OF ART INDIANAPOLIS OPERA 
All-Tsar Crahsmanship­1.800.556.INDY or online at
Three exhibiting artists and the juror of November 1 November3 
Workshop www.ima-art.org.
the exhibition will present a series of slide-­Dr. von Habsburg will give a slide lecture Join five resident artists as they intermingle 
INDIANAPOLIS ART CENTER
illustrated demonstrations and corresponding on the royal treasures of the late musical excerpts from this gripping piece 
November 17 & 18, Canterbury Hotel
workshops focused on ·craftsmanship." Renaissance and early Baroque era. of theatre with a description of the plot. 
December 1 & 2, 8 & 9, 15 & 16 123 South Illinois Street Downtown Indianapolis
To Russia with Love: Princely Eugene Onegin, an opera
FIL\I (Jolly Days) Gitt Giving
Gifts from the Ottoman and by Peter llich Tchaikovsky 
THE CHILDREN'S MUSEUM Hyatt Regency Indianapolis"Ivan the Terrible, n Persian Courts INDIANAPOLIS OPERA OF INDIANAPOLIS 
One South Capitol Avenue

Linda Komaroff, PhD November 16, 18
Parts I(1944) & II (1946) November 23, 2001-Downtown IndianapolisCurator of Islamic Art. LA. County Tchaikovsky's Eugene Onegin. a master­
INDIANAPOLIS MUSEUM OF ART January 13, 2002 
Museum of Art 

piece of the Russian repertoire, based on Just as those who gave gifts to the tsars, 
October 27 
Indianapolis Marriott Downtown
INDIANAPOLIS MUSEUM OF ART a verse novel by poet Alexander Pushkin. the museum will offer the community a
Two-part film series chronicles Ivan's 
350 West Maryland Street
November 13 

variety of grfts to enjoy this holiday season. This lecture focuses on the princely gifts crowning as Tsar, his marriage to 
Downtown Indianapolis

Choir ofthe Russian Choral
Anastasia, his defeat of the Mongols and sent from the Ottoman and Persian courts 
his problems with the Boyars (the Russian Academy ofMoscow Family Days at the /MA
to the Russian tsars. Omni Severin Hotel 
feudal nobility). (English subtitles) INDIANAPOLIS MUSEUM OF ART INDIANAPOLIS MUSEUM OF ART 
40 West Jackson Place

January 3, 5 December 16 
Downtown Indianapolis

All-Tsar Craftsmanship-Lecture 
The Russian Choral Academy of Moscow Families with children ages 5 -10 are invited 
INDIANAPOLIS ART CENTER 

will perform a cappella. to participate in a celebration in conjunction 
November 16, 30, December 7, 14 The Marten House Hotel
with the Gifts to the Tsars exhibition, enjoy & Lilly Conference Center
puppet shows and performers, and make 
1801 West 86th Street
works of art. 
Northwest Indianapolis 

Enjoy shopping at Circle Centre Mall. 
These are just some of the many events. For a free, complete 16-page Gifts ofthe Arts Program Guide to Russian Arts and Culture in Indianapolis, call 317.920.2662 ext. 313, or contact these arts organizations directly. 




G) Indianapolis Museum ofArt 1200 West 38th Street I 317.923.1331 317.920.2660 (24-l-lour Information Line) www.ima-art.org 
0 Ballet Internationale 317.637.8979 I www.balletinternationale.org 
G) The Children's Museum ofIndianapolis 
317.334.3322 I www.childrensmuseum.org 
© Clowes Memorial Hall 
317.940.6444 or 800.732.0804 
www.cloweshall.org 
® Conner Prairie 
317.776.6006 or 800.866.1836 
www. 







