

Breaking the bank 
Another school tragedy
Wilh the Generations campaign wrapped up, 

Thursday
Two days after the Santee school shooting, an 
The Observer explores what will become ofthe 
14-year-old Pennsylvania girl shot her 
more than $ 1 billion raised. 
eighth-grade clasmate. 
MARCH 8, 
In Focus 
World &Nation . page 5 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 103 , · HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Eldred requests apology from CARE leaders 
• 'Monologues'performance nets officers reprimand 
By MIKE CONNOLLY News Writer 
College President Marilou Eldred sent a letter to Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination officers Wednesday requesting a letter of apology to the Board of Trustees for their individual involvement in a student read­ing of "The Vagina Monologues" Feb. 19. 
CARE officers Ang Romano, Emily Koelsch, Julie Frischkorn and Katie Poynter may have been singled out for punishment because they 

wrote a letter ':4t a recent meeting of acknowledge that 
to the Board the Board ofTrustees, anyone but CARE of Trustees could have orga­
members were

with Eldred 's nized this," said 
permission. dismayed that they Cassie Carrigan, In that letter, were blatantly a student who the officers participated in
misled by your letter. ,,

outlined why the reading but they believe did not receive a t h e Marilou Eldred letter from 
"Monologues" Saint Mary's president Eldred. should be Eldred decreed
in letter to CARE officers

performed. They also wrote: "The [C]ollege has decided it will not support a performance of "The Vagina Monologues" this year, and out of respect for this college, we will abide by that decision." 
In Eldred's letter to CARE officers, she wrote that the Board of Trustees felt deceived by an alleged discrepancy between their letter to the Board and the students' actions. 
''At a recent meeting of the Board of Trustees, members were dismayed that they were blatantly misled by your let­ter," she wrote. 
None of the other students who participated in the reading of the play have received a let­ter from Eldred. Approximately 20 students, including athletes, student government members, Feminist Collective members and Student Diversity Board members participated in the reading, according to CARE officers. 
"She has 
refused to 
earlier this year 
that CARE could not sponsor the "Monologues" and said the four officers par­ticipation in the reading consti­tuted ''overt support" for the reading. The officers said they promised Eldred that CARE 

ND alum Kelly, wife receive 2nd annual Hesburgh Award 
By GEOFF BRODIE 
News Writer 
The second annual Hesburgh Award for Business Ethics was presented on Wednesday evening in the Jordan Auditorium to Daniel Kelly, a 1957 alumnus, and his wife Rosemary, founders of a center for the seriously mentally ill. 
The award was presented by Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president emeritus, on behalf of Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Religious values in Business. 
The ceremony also included a lecture, "The New Role of Business in Society," given by the Kellys and John Boatright, professor of business ethics at Loyola University in Chicago. The lecture was the third part of the Frank Cahill Lecture Series, which was estab­lished to honor 1959 Notre Dame alumnus Cahill and his commitment to ethical behavior and integrity. 
The Kellys received the Hesburgh Award for starting and founding the Rose Hill Center. Located in Holly, Mich., the Rose Hill Center houses 51 adults who need would not sponsor the readings of the play but did not promise it would not be performed at the College. 
"It was made very, very clear [at a meeting between the offi­cers and Eldred] that students might take the initiative to put on the play," Frischkorn said. Frischkorn said the four offi­cers never said they would not participate in an independent reading of the play as individ­

see ELDRED/page 4 

Notre Dame grad mi~ing in Bolivia 
. Peace Corps worker Poirier missing 2 weeks 

By TIM LOGAN 
Senior Staff Writer 
Walter Poirier, a 2000 Notre Dame graduate serving in the Peace Corps in Bolivia, has been missing for two weeks, U. S. offi­cials and col­leagues said Wednesday. 
Poirier. 22, was last seen by fellow vol­unteers on Feb. 22 in LaPaz, Bolivia's capi­tal. He had Poirier been working in tourism development in the nearby Zongo Valley since August 2000. 

Government officials are trying to find Poirier. an embassy official put out public service announce­ments on radio and television, and set up a hotline for people with information on his whereabouts. Similar announcements, and a picture of Poirer. will appear in Bolivian newspapers today. 

Friends at Notre Dame remem­bered him as a good kid, with a mischevious streak. 
"He was unique. Everyone knew who Wally was," said Joe Priest, a 2000 grad who lived with Poirier in Zahm Hall. "It's obvious what a good person he is." 
Poirier was briefly the president of Zahm Hall. before having to leave the dorm, and he ran for student body president twice, in 1998 and 1999. He also encour­aged other Zahm residents to run for president, usually on irrever­ent platforms that gently mocked the typical student government priorities. 
But he had a serious side, too. Poirier was heavily involved in community service while at Notre Dame. friends said. 
"He was always volunteering," Priest said. 
Poirier worked with Habitat for Humanity on campus and spent a semester living in Dismas House -a home where college students and former convicts Live together in community. 
He also volunteered at "There Are Children Here," a camp for Chicago inner city youth. Camp director Jim Langford. a core pro­fessor, remembers him as a dedi­cated and energetic. 
"Wherever he was, there was a kind of buzz," Langford said. "He's a leader and a person that enjoys life." 
Father Jim Lies, who was rector in Zahm when Poirier lived there, said the young man was a model for his dorm. 
"He was the quintessential Zahmbie," Lies said. "He has more spirit than any youth I've ever worked with, with more energy than anybody I know. It didn't surprise me at all that he wound up in the Peace Corps and helping others." 
Poirier got in his share of trou­
see MISSING/page 4


page 2 
The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, March 8, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Hatching 

I got the privilege of ducksitting today. No, not babysitting -ducksitting. 
My friend is a teaching assistant for an ani• mal behavior class and is training a duckling. I got to take care of the duck this afternoon. 
After watching the duck for several hours, I began to see that he feels very much like I do right now. 
Sammy the duckling hatched yesterday and left the warm familiar place that was his shell. Now, he's not quite sure what to do. The new place he has entered is exciting and full of possibilities, but it's much bigger than his shell and it's very scary. 
Sammy sort of waddles around unsure of who to trust. When someone holds him tightly, then he relax­es. 
Although I am definitely not a newly hatched duck, I know just how Sammy feels. 
I am beginning the process of hatching out of my shell that is Saint Mary's and rm not sure how I feel about leaving. 
Although it's several months until gradua­tion. I've started "hatching" already. This week is my last week as an editor for The Observer. my senior comp is submitted, and I'm accepted and planning for medical school. 
The walls of my shell are beginning to crack already. 
There are so many people and places that are a part of this shell; I can't imagine not being a part of them. The people who I live with at Saint Mary's are my family away from home. They have seen me develop and grow up. They love me in spite of all the stupid things that come with four years of college. I have come to depend on their opinions, senses of humor and their always-available shoulder to cry on. The idea of not seeing them everyday is ridiculous -it's like not seeing your brother or your sister. They're just always there -how exactly do I deal with the fact that they won't be next year? 
My colleagues at The Observer have been a surprise addition to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's shell. When I started working at the paper, I only wanted to write occasionally. I needed to "focus on my classes." Well, that didn't work out the way l planned. For the past two years, I have spent as much time at the Observer office as I've spent in the chemistry department. Thank goodness I got over• involved. These people have seen me at my best and, most definitely, at my worst. I have made some of my dearest friends in the late­nights spent pouring over pages and edits. I wake up in the morning and wonder if there is a story I should cover. This is a shell that's going to be hard to shake off. 
I feel like Sammy. I'm starting to leave my shell and wander about in a bigger world. Who will I trust? The bubble that is this community will definitely not be found at my future med• ical school. Yes, it is exciting with all the amaz­ing possibilities of being a doctor. But, like Sammy's new world, medical school is bigger and scarier one. 
I guess. until I finish hatching out of Saint Mary's, and once I've finished hatching and really started to wander aimlessly. someone will have to hold me tight. Maybe then I will relax. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Jason McFarley  Matt Nania  
Kate Nagengast  Graphics  
Erin Pirourek  Katie McKenna  
Courtney Boyle  Production  
Sports  Jeff Balcruzak  
Katie Hughes  ·  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Peter Richardson  
Patrick Odewski  



Molly McVoy 
Saint Mary's 
Editor 

The Observer (USPS 599 2--4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of che Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday 
. Lecture: "Violence, Politics and Collusion: The causes behind Northern Ireland's Worst Tragedies," 4:15 p.m., Room C-103, Hesburgh Center 
Friday 
. SUB spring break shuttle: Transportation to the Chicago airports, tick• ets cost $8, purchase at LaFortune info desk. Departure times: O'Hare: 10 a.m., 3 p.m. Midway: 12 p.m. 

Saturday 
. 
Mass: Sacred Heart Basilica, 5 p.m. 

. 
Confession: Sacred Heart Parish Crypt, 4-5 p.m. 


OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Protesters denounce U. Wisconsin newspaper 
MADISON 
Numerous University of Wisconsin student organizations gathered Tuesday to voice their displeasure with what they labeled "racist propa­ganda" printed in The Badger Herald. After the rally, participants marched to the Herald's office, demanding an apology and the resignation of Herald Editor in Chief Julie Bosman. 
Bosman said she would not apolo­gize for publishing a cartoon and a book advertisement that have been the center of recent controversy. The cartoon featured a meeting of Ku Klux Klan members, with a swastika. 
The book, by David Horowitz, is titled "The Death of the Civil Rights Movement." 
The ad lists 10 reasons why re para• tions for slavery are a bad idea. 


In a response to this material, which it deemed offensive, the Multicultural Student Coalition (MSC) submitted an advertisement to the Herald, con• demning the paper for its "attacks" on students of color and its promotion of "racist ideology" and destruction of the "morale of students of color who have attended this university." 
The ad labeled the Herald "UW• Madison's Racist Propaganda 
UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA 
Students fight for education funding 
TUSCALOOSA 
College students and faculty from universities across Alabama united in front of the Statehouse on Tuesday to voice opinions in an education funding war that is far from over. About 200 University students took the eastward trip to the capital in Student Government Association buses to join political and business leaders in voicing their concerns about Alabama's 6.2 percent proration of the Education Trust Fund. A pep rally atmosphere encircled the crowd of more than 2,500 people at the fourth· annual Higher Education Day in Montgomery. Alabama State University marching band members and Troy State University cheerleaders fired up a raucous assemblage whose signs spoke their opposition to Gov. Don Siegelman's education plan as loudly as their cheers. "Hey Don, did it hurt when you fell off the education platform?" asked one sign. 'Tm Voting Don off the Island," read another...Anything they cut is too much," said Nia Pauliukonis, a University biology graduate student. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather* forecast for daytime conditions and high tempemtures 
H L 

Friday 31 24
G 

Saturday ~43 29 Sunday Q ,,,,, 47 31 
q
Monday .. 50 37 Tuesday Q ,,,,, 54 40 


8,Q,Q9,~Q ~ ~ ·c::1 
ShOWers T-storms Rain Flurries Ice Sunny Pf_ Claue1y Cloudy
Snow 
Via Anoa,iled Preu Gr~/ 
Sunday 
. Mass: Sacred Heart Basilica, 10 a.m., 11 :45 a.m. 

Machine." 
After reviewing the proposed publi• cation, Paloma Wright, advertising director for the Herald, said it would be improper to publish the MCSC ad in the Herald. She wrote a letter to the MCSC stating that the newspaper "inadvertently" published the Center for the Study of Popular Culture's advertisement for Horowitz's book. 
The MCSC ad ran Monday in The Daily Cardinal. 
Printing the Horowitz ad was the mistake of an advertising account executive who did not follow standard procedure of bringing all questionable material to her attention, Paloma wrote. She added that the advertising director reserves the right to refuse any advertisement, and would have "under normal circumstances." 
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 

RU-486 causes debate at universities 
HANOVER, N.H. 

While officials at many universities have made the decision not to carry RU·486 on campus for medical rea­sons. this decision has been taken out of the hands of health care providers at the University of Pennsylvania. Physicians at Penn Student Health Services were recently informed by the Pennsylvania Department of Health that the state's Abortion Control Act prohibits distribution of RU•486 at any site not already registered to provide sur­gical abortions. The approval of RU-486 for a U.S. mar­ket in late September sparked a flurry of debates. "I am less enthusiastic about [RU·486] for a Penn population ... because we have excellent access to competent surgical­abortion providers. We don't have the facilities to provide for the complications," Janice Asher, medical director of Women's Health Services, told The Daily Pennsylvanian. Although Penn's forced deference to state law is unusual, the FDA's stringent requirements for the dispensing of the drug have helped convince many schools to exclude the option in their health programs. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather«' forecast for noon, Thursday, March 8. 
40 30s Lines separate high temperature zones lor the day. 
.,........ •• •e •

0 2001 AccuWealhet. Inc. COLD ST,-.nONARY 
@©DD DD 0 D 
High i.-Show••• Rain T•atonna Flurri.a Snow lo• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
\'lo As90dal8d Press  
Atlanta  38  58  Las Vegas  48  70  Portland  38  54  
Baltimore  36  50  Memphis  34  58  Sacramento  45  66  
Boston  28  40  Milwaukee  22  35  St. Louis  24  43  
Chicago  22  36  New York  32  45  Tampa  47  68  
Houston  52  70  Philadelphia  34  48  Washington DC 36  50  


, 

Thursday, March 8, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Longtime ND coach, Diversity Board officers elected 
did this year," Morales said. studies.
By KATIE McVOY

prof dies at age 92 
This year, the Student "We want to have a big sis­
News Writer 

Diversity Board has worked to ter/little sister program for 
. Mass to honor Walter Langford today in Basillica 
Special to The Observer 
Walter Langford. a mem­ber of the University of Notre Dame faculty for 42 years and a longtime coach of the Univer­
sity's var­sity tennis and fenc­ing team, died Feb. 
28. in St. L o u i s after an illness. 


He was Langford 92. 
A 1930 graduate of Notre Dame, Langford began teaching at the University a year later, specializing in Spanish and Portuguese instruction and Mexican lit­erature. He served as chair of the modern languages department from 1946-59 and was the author of "The Mexican Novel Comes of Age." 
From 1961-63. Langford organized the United States' first overseas training pro­gram for Peace Corps volun­teers, serving as director of the new agency's Chilean program. He also served for a year as director of Notre Dame's Sophomore Year Abroad Program. 
In addition to his teaching and research, Langford coached the varsity tennis team at Notre Dame from 1940-53. compiling a record of 95-30 and earning a three-way share of the 1944 
Visit 'Ihe Observer Online. 
_f • /~~L1i --.. ·-&(fl ...-... . . . . / .; )0ll~1~1i!It!!l1/ .·· .;i~<i\,.·•····
>fittP,: //observer'titrid .,~du 
·tf?·:--·~T-· ... ---.. -:-:-;.· .;-· 
NCAA championship. He also coached the Irish fencing team from 1940-43 and again from 1951-61, with a record of 155-35. Langford was honored twice for his multiple contributions to Notre Dame. in 1959 with the Lay Faculty Award for distinguished service and upon his retirement in 1973 with a Presidential Citation from the University's then president, Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
Langford earned a master of modern languages degree from the National University of Mexico in 1937. He served as president of the Catholic Association of Foreign Language Teachers in 1957­58 and was active in the Modern Language Association, the American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese and the Central States Modern Languages Teachers Association. 
Langford's wife of 44 years. Alice, died in 1975. He later married Mary Goebel, who survives, along with four children. His son Jim is director emeritus of Notre Dame Press. and his daugh­ter Lois is married to William Berry. professor of electrical engineering at Notre Dame. 
Father Hesburgh will cele­brate a memorial "Mass for Langford at 3:30 p.m. today at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on campus. 
Memorial contributions can be sent to the Walter and Alice Langford Scholarship Fund at Notre Dame or to There Are Children Here, a camp for at-risk children directed by Jim Langford and his wife, Jill, at 21550 New Road, Lakeville, IN 46536. 
The Saint Mary's Student Diversity Board will continue in its campaign to help under­represented groups at Saint Mary's with the election of Lily Morales as the new president and Cyd Apellido as vice-presi­dent. 
Morales and Apellido, who ran uncontested, were notified \Vednesday 
evening that 
"[Our ideas] are
they had been 
elected. The really a lot of 
elections com­expanding on projects mittee was 
we did this year. ,.
unavailable for specific election results. Lily Morales 
Morales w i 11 Diversity Board president-elect 
follow former president Akmaral Omarova, and hopes to build on the work the Student Diversity Board did this past year. 
"[Our ideas] are really a lot of expanding on projects we 

ND alum set for space flight 
the orbiting science outpost.
. Wetherbee lifts 

At the end of the flight,off to International Discovery will bring the Space Station today Expedition One crew back to earth. American commander Bill Shepherd and Russian Special to The Observer cosmonauts Yuri Gidzenko and Sergei Krikalev return after a pioneering four-month 
Veteran astronaut and mission that prepared the Notre Dame alumnus James space station for scientific Wetherbee will be in com­research. mand when the Space Shuttle Wetherbee will be joined by Discovery pilot Jim Kelly and mission makes its Shuttle specialists Andy Thomas and scheduled Paul Richards on the mission. liftoff today Launch Discovery's flight also will for the sec-Wetherbee will feature the debut of the ond expedi-Italian-built, NASA-owned 
tion to the traveltospace 

Leonardo Multi-Purpose International for the fifth time Logistics Module (MPLM), the first of three cargo-carrying
S P a c e in his career. 

Station. vessels containing scientific 
During the . Leaves today racks and other supplies for m i s s i o n . . Returns on the space station. Discovery Discovery is scheduled to will carry the March 20 land March 20 at NASA's Expedition Kennedy Space Center. Two crew -Russian com­Wetherbee earned a bache­mander Yury Usachev and lor's degree in aerospace and American flight engineers Jim mechanical engineering from Voss and Susan Helms -to Notre Dame in 1974. He increase campus awareness of the variety of women that are part of the Saint Mary's com­munity. 
Morales and Apellido have several ideas to continue to increase respect for under-rep­r esented groups on Saint Mary's campus. These groups include racial groups, religious groups, ethnic groups and sev­
Mary's include working with the racial discrimination poli­cy, allocating more funds to under-represented groups on campus and working with admissions and intercultural 
eral others. They haven't yet made spe­cific plans. 
"Nothing is set in stone." Morales said. "These are just ideas." 
Their ideas for the coming year at Saint 
received his commission in the United States Navy in 1975 and was designated a naval aviator a year later. 
Selected by NASA is 1984, Wetherbee became an astro­naut in 1985. A veteran of four space flights, he has logged more than 955 hours in space. He also serves as director of NASA's Flight Crew Operations Directorate. 
U.S. Air Force Lt. Col. Kevin Ford. a 1982 Notre Dame graduate with a bachelor's degree in aerospace and mechanical engineering. and Air Force Major Michael Good, who earned bachelor's and master's degrees in aero­space and mechanical engi­neering from Notre Dame in 1984 and '86, respectJvely. were named to the astronaut corps last year. 
Annette 2051/Hasbrook, a 1985 graduate with a bache­lor's degree in aerospace and mechanical engineering, recently was appointed a flight director at NASA's Johnson Space Center. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books boupl and sold -25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print sean:h service -Appraisals larac and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

non-Catholics.'.' Morales said. "We also want to have disabili­ty awareness week." 
Apellido was elected to the vice presidency earlier this semester and will. therefore, continue in the position. Morales served as the secre­tary on the Student Diversity 
· Board this past year and saw the presidency as a way to make her voice stronger. 
"I was ready to have a bigger voice on the board," she said. "The secretary does a lot of writing but I wanted to be able to say more." 
Morales and Apellido will take over responsibility imme­diately following spring break. The term of the current Student Diversity Board ends on April 1. Morales' and Anellido's first task will be to c~mpose next year's board. 
"We're starting to put the board together and send out applications right after spring break," Morales said. 


-r-------------­
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 8, 2001 
Award 
continued from page 1 
assistance because of schizo• phrenia. and other serious men• tal illnesses. 
Founded in 1992. the center has aided 
around 400 troubled adults into new lives of s e l f ­reliance. Based on a four part program of 


work, clini-Hesburgh cal and social support. and an indepen­dent skills program; individuals learn how to gain the skills, qual­ities, and confidence necessary to live life successfully on their own. 
The center, which is also a farm, provides five-hour-a-day jobs, social functions, medical attention, support groups and psychology classes to all of its guests. The busy schedule allows the guests little time to dwell on their illness and instills a feeling of individual importance. 
The idea to start the Rose Hill 

Center would never have materi­
alized if it was not for the Kelly's 
son. John. who was diagnosed 
with paranoid schizophrenia in 
1986. 
"Mental illness is like a robber, 

a thief in the night," said 
Rosemary Kelly. "It came and 
took over my son. Something just 
clicked in his mind that changed 
him forever. It was horrible." 
Knowing that the treatment 

John needed was not available in 
their home town of Detroit, the Kellys sent their son to a special­ized hospital in Connecticut. He had improved so much from his treatment that the doctor's rec­ommended he not go back home because he could end up relying too greatly on his parents. The only other option was a group home. which after some research, proved to be a bad idea. 
"Most of the group homes we visited I would not leave my dog there. let alone my son," said Rosemary Kelly. 
This is when the idea formed to start their own treatment cen­ter. And not just one for John, but for anyone like him who needed special help. With some extensive planning, and much financial pooling, Rose Hill Center was born on 370 plus acres of rolling hills and a beauti­ful lake in the surreal country­side just north of Detroit. 
One might wonder how gradu­ates from the center actually end up. 
To find out, one needs to only look at Mike Kelly himself. He now is staff member at the Rose Hill Center, lives on his own inde­pendently, and has his own car. 
The Kelly family could have just worried about their own son's treatment, but they were just as concerned for anyone with similar mental problems. They now have an $2.5 million endowment fund for scholarships to the Center, which they hope will eventually reach $10 million. 
Why would a family take so 
many risks for others when they 
have what seems an overbearing 
amount of problems on their 
own? 
"The daily love of God's work," 
said Rosemary Kelly. 
Missing 
continued from page I 

ble with the University, leading fellow Zahm residents in pranks and North Dining Hall antics. 
Punishment was usually volunteer work, and that was fine with Poirier. 
"It was kind of funny," said Brian Clemency, 
many of our campus col· leagues quite serious."
Eldred 

Eldred requested in her let­ter to CARE officers that the
continued from page l 

students write a letter of apol­ual students. ogy to the Board of Trustees The officers claim they were and deliver it to the Office of not the organizers of the read­the President by 4 p.m. 
ing. only participants. Friday. If they do not write 
"We weren't the ringleaders this letter, they will be placed of the reading," Poynter said. on College probation. This "We were just people involved probation will not affect their in the reading." academic status but will not 
Eldred alerted the Saint allow the four seniors to grad­
Mary's com­munity Wednesday in an e-mail explaining her reasons for taking discipli­nary action against alleged organizers. 
"Last month my decision was disregard­ed, the stu• dents broke their word not to perform the one of his friends. "They always had him do service, but he was doing it already." 

Poirier, from Lowell. Mass., majored in his­tory and government at Notre Dame. His upbeat attitude and playful streak made him a memorable figure to those who know him. 
"He got into some difficulties I know at Notre Dame but he has a great spirit," Langford said. "His true spirit came through when he decided to join the Peace Corps and go help other people. He's a great person." 
uate in "good disci­
"/find this lack of 
plinary respect for me, the standing." By not
administration, 

writing the
members ofthe Board of 
letter, Trustees and for many of Eldred said the officers
our campus 

will violate
colleagues quite serious ... 
a clause in the hand­book stating
Marilou Eldred 

"It is
Saint Mary's president 
expected
in letter to SMC students 
that stu­dents will 
play. and the play was per­show respect for all College formed," she wrote. "I find employees and will comply this lack of respect for me, the with their reasonable requests when acting in their official
administration, members of the Board of Trustees and for job capacity." 
The officers had not decided if they would write the letter on Wednesday night. 
In a later e-mail from Eldred Wednesday, CARE officers learned that if they were placed on probation. they could only appeal to the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees. Normal punishments can be appealed through Student Affairs and then to the president. Because this punishment will originate from the president, it can only be appealed to the higher authority of the Board of Trustees. 
Eldred's decision to punish the officers of CARE came as a surprise to student body presi­dent Crissie Renner. Renner met with Eldred on Feb. 26 to discuss the "Monologues" but, according to Renner, Eldred had no comment because she said the-issue was closed. Renner believes Eldred's letter and e-mail re-open the issue. 
"That is what is so ironic," 
Renner  said.  "They  are  
rehashing the issue."  
Repeated attempts to  con­ 

tact Eldred for -comment Wednesday evening were unsuccessful. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Leader accuses Milosevic: Opposition leader testified Wednesday that he believed for­mer Yugoslav president Slobodan Milosevic was behind an assassination attempt against him. Yuk Draskovic made the charge during ques­tioning by public prosecutors in an investigation of Milosevic's former state security chief, Rade Markovic. Markovic was detained last month in connection with an apparent attempt to kill Draskovic in October 1999. Four of the opposi­tion leader's associates died in a car crash that appeared to have been staged. 
German railroad board head quits: 
The head of the national railroad's supervisory board resigned Wednesday over differences with Deutsche Bahn AG's chairman. Dieter Vogel's resignation was a new embarrassment to the government as it tries to put the company on a commercial footing. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Lawmakers review death penalty: 
Congressional lawmakers on both sides of the death penalty issue on Wednesday renewed their call for greater protections for defendants in capital cases. The group of Republicans and Democrats unveiled a bill similar to one intro­duced last year. It widens defendants' access to DNA testing that could prove their innocence and aims to ensure they are represented by qualified attorneys. The lawmakers tinkered with the original legislation to address con­cerns it would have allowed too much federal meddling in what is primarily a state issue, since the majority of death-row cases are pros­ecuted in state, not federal, courts. The bill provides incentives for states to reform their justice systems. It does not call for a moratori­
um on executions. "An issue like this takes a long time," said Hep. Hay Lallood, R-Ill., a death-penalty supporter and one of the chief sponsors. "The truth is, no one up here knows if it's going to pass this year. But we're going to stick with it until we pass it." 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Fort Wayne teen arrested after gun found: Days following a school shoot­ing in California, a student at a high school in Fort Wayne was arrested after police found a semi-automatic handgun in his locker. The 16-year-old Elmhurst High School student. whose name was not released, faces a felony charge of possession of a handgun on school property. He also is charged with possession of a controlled substance. Under the school's zero-tolerance policy, he could face a one­year expulsion. 
Market Watch 3/7 

Dow 
10,729.21 +137.99

]ONES 

Composite Volume: 
NIA 


Nasdaq: 2,223.92 + 19.49 
~'"~t!X~E: ,?~~~·fl35:~"t~A11t~.~~J1111 
S&P 500: 1,261.89 +8.09 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE INTEL CORP (INTC) +4.57 + 1.44 32.94 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) •0.00 +0.00 24.00 NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ) +0.04 +0.02 49.42 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +5.65 +1.00 111.62 JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU) -3.7') • ).06 26.94 

ATI 


Thursday, March 8, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Eighth-grade girl shoots classmate 
Associated Press 
A 14-year-old girl shot a female classmate in the shoulder Wednesday in the cafeteria of their parochial school but dropped the gun at the urging of another stu­dent, authorities said. 
A witness said the shooter fired at the floor and the bullet ricocheted into the victim, a classmate she had feuded with in the past. 
"This is a situation of a student who was upset with another student," police officer David Ritter said. "This is not a random act of violence and as far as I understand there are no other targets for this vio­lence." 
The shooting happened around noon during lunch in the cafeteria filled with about 120 students at Bishop Neumann Junior­Senior High, a Roman Catholic school. 
Police said freshman Brent Paucke. 14, was able to persuade the girl to drop the gun. Paucke said he ducked under a lunchroom table when the girl came in screaming and fired two shots, but then recognized her from his school bus. 
"She was saying, 'I don't want to live. I should just commit suicide right here.' And she pointed the gun at her head,., Paucke said. "I got up and started talking to her. I didn't want anyone to get hurt." 
Paucke said the girl point­ed the gun at him from about five feet away, and his principal told him to back away. But he said he kept talking because he feared more people would be hurt. 
"You could tell she was really mad and she looked like she was about to go off on everybody," Paucke said. He said the girl eventually placed the gun on the floor and he kicked it away. 

Ritter called Paucke "very courageous." 
"We were very proud that a student would take such a serious risk," Ritter said. 
Freshman Andrew Miller, 16, said the girl's second shot had hit the victim. 
"I saw her holding a gun, but I didn't really know it was a gun," he said. "She told everyone to get down. She fired towards the ceil­ing, then fired into the ground, which ricocheted and hit the girl in the shoul­der." 
Kimberly Marchese, 13, was in stable condition at Geisinger Medical Center in Danville, authorities said. 
The shooting suspect was in police custody within four minutes, Ritter said. The girl in custody was being questioned and police said they did not yet know where she got the gun. 
Authorities would not say if they planned to charge the girl as an adult, but said they would need to petition a court before they could do so. 
After the shooting, all stu­dents at the school were taken to the auditorium and patted down by police in a search for weapons, Lycoming County District Attorney Thomas Marino said. Students were later taken to a nearby school for questioning, he said. 
The violence came two days after two people were killed and 13 wounded in a high school shooting in Santee, Calif. A ninth-grad­er was arrested. Santana students returned to the campus Wednesday, with counselors available in each classroom. 


"The Napster client is where it's right songs once record labels provide Associated Press going to be determined what is possi­Napster with lists of those songs, along SAN JOSE, Calif. ble and what is not possible," Butting with proof of ownership. Napster's future as a legal online said. "The security wrap around the Screening is not a long-term solu­file is what makes sure those rules tion. Each file name can have dozens
service lies not in filters that block of variations in spelling or could bethe free exchange of copyright songs are stuck to.'' 

It was not clear whether Napster's coded beyond recognition. Napster's
but rather in an advanced system 

attempt, launched Sunday night, has
that can lock up tunes and set limits secure file-sharing system could on their use. allow users to pay for more flexibili­been less than successful at blocking top tunes of major artists. 
The lawsuit-besieged Internet ty. But many other companies, music clearinghouse announced last including the record labels, are It's also not clear whether the 
month that it was working with a scrambling to create a digital rights record companies have a complete list subsidiary of its record industry ally, management system that would be of their songs. 
as convenient and allow payment. One solution would be to use dataBertelsmann AG, on technology that compiled by Gracenote, a privatelywould limit usage of files swapped on Until the pay services are widely available, Napster is attempting to held company that has been compiling the network. 
Essentially, music files would not stay alive by screening the file names an online database of song and album be usable outside the Napster pro­that pass through its computers in an titles since 1995. gram unless the copyright holder effort to block the exchange of pirated Anyone who has loaded an audio CD 
into a computer and watched the
allows it, said Johann Butting, chief tunes. 

That process continued against the track titles magically appear has usedexecutive of Digital World Services. 
the company's CDDB system, whichOther rules also could be placed on backdrop of a court ruling posted Tuesday that effectively gives the automatically downloads the informa­the file, including whether the song tion to Internet-connected PCs. The
could be burned onto a CD, or trans• recording ind ustry control over ferred to an MP3 player. Limits ori Napster. A federal Jµdge gave Napster data were compiled over the years by fidelity also could be set. three business days to remove copy-users entering unmatched titles. 


Thursday, March 8, 2001
page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
no-w. •••••.••• 
8 AcoustiCafe 9PM Huddle 9 Last Day of Classes 10 Start of Spring Break 
March 11-18 Spring Break 



19 Classes Resume 21 Interfaith Christian Prayer Service 10 PM Morrissey Chapel 22 Acousticafe 9PM Huddle 

ore 
••••••••• 
19 Classes Resume 

21 Interfaith Christian Prayer Service 
10 PM Morrissey Chapel 22 Acousticafe 9PM Huddle 30 McGlinn Casino Night 31 Sophomore Class Ball 
April 7 Alumni Wake; Lewis Crush April 2 Sorin Dance ~ April 21 Walsh Formal 
dorm stuffff 

4/1 St. Edward's Hall spring fling 4/6 Alumni Processional, 4 pm -7 pm 4/7 Lewis Chicken Run, 4 pm -7 pm 4/20 Badin Block Party, 4 pm -7 pmSUB has extended the apps deadline! 
4/21 Carroll Hall Fusic Festival, 12 -7 pmif you want to be a member of the most 4/27 Howard Concert, South Quad 4 pm -7 pmfunnest coolest group on campus 4/28 Fisher Regatta, 2 pm -5 pm; Pangborn/Fisher Dance 
then pick up an application in the SUB office on the second floor of LaFuN Applications due Wed. March 21. 
•

union 

a 
Thursday, March 8, 2001 page 7
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 



STUDENT SENATE 
Senators consider three topics for spring BOT report 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
The Student Senate approved three possible topics for the spring Board of Trustees report. BOT committee chair Tyler Jackson informed the senate that the committee will either report on social space on campus, faculty service, tenure and promotion, or the idea addressed by the Trustee's agenda. 
If the committee chooses space on campus, it will look into a Reeker's type cafe in North Dining Hall, use of ·washington Hall once the new fine arts building is construct­ed, and renovations of LaFortune. 
"\Ve also want to address the issue of overcrowding in the residence halls' social space," Jackson said. 
Student body president Brian O'Donoghue said the commit­tee on social space will also look into library renovations and other 24-space available on campus. 
The second issue the commit­tee could address -faculty service, tenure and promotion -investigates the issue of fac­ulty and student relationships. 
"We want to encourage facul­ty and student interaction out­side class because it will improve the learning inside the classroom," Jackson said. 
O'Donoghue said emphasis is often put on research, being published and grants for facul­ty to received tenure. 
"\,Ve want to look into chang­ing the tenure process," O'Donoghue said, "so emphasis is put on interaction with stu­dents not just researching and being published." 
The third issue the commit­tee could address is the topic the Board chooses to address in the spring. The committee will receive word from the Board about three weeks before the meeting on what issue they will address. 
In other senate news: 
. 
The nominations for the student business board man­agers were presented to the senate: Stephanie Lee for stu­dent business board manager, Melissa Gormley for Adwork, Rebecca Kiefer for Irish Gardens, and Matt Wilkerson for Dome Designs. 

. 
The senate passed a reso­lution which creates an adviso­ry committee for the enhance­ment of the First Year Orientation (FYO) program. The committee will meet each year and make recommenda­tions to student activities about the Freshman Orientation weekend and how it could be improved. 

. 
Mike Pfaff said the Financial Management Board 'approved scholarships in honor of Brionne Clary and Conor Murphy, two members of the 




Brooke Norton, student body vice president, led the Student Senate meeting Wednesday night where members approved three potential topics for this spring's Board of Trustees report: cam­pus social space, faculty service, tenure and promotion or the Trustees-chosen issue. 
announced Tuesday that theclass of 2002 who died from honor of Murphy, Clary and 
University has already joined.
leukemia. Each scholarship Miranda Thomas on April 22 will be worth $25,000. Welsh and details will be available in "We did a lot of research and Family and Zahm Hall will the weeks after spring break. found we were really proud of 
what the University waseach sponsor the respective . The WRC committee con­
already doing,.. said Pangbornscholarships in honor of their ducted research last week and senator Kaitlyn Dudley. "There
former residents. Pasquerilla would have recommended that West senator Audra Hagan the senate support Notre Dame was a lot we learned on the 
committee that we didn't real-
said there will be a race in joining the WRC, but Malloy 

5:00 
p.m.-6:00 p.m. Romance Language Department's Italian Coffee Hour, Decio 131 

5:00 
p.m. Men's Tennis vs. Michigan, Eck Tennis Pavilion (Matches start at 


4:00 p.m.) 
6:30 p.m. "Colombia: Displacement, Paramilitaries and Local Initiatives for Peace.", lecture by Victoria Sanford, DeBartolo 125 
8:30 
p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec La­crosse, Court 1, RSRC 

8:30 
p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 


10:00 p.m. -Midnight Stepan Center: Open Play Basketball and Volleyball 
Friday, March 9 
7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 
*Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC students 
Programs are subject to change without notice. 

LaFortune Student Center 
Spring Break Building Hours: 
Friday, March 9  7:00am-11 :00am  
Saturday, Mar.ch 10  8:00am-8:00pm  
Sunday, March 11  8:00am-8:00pm  
Mon-Fri, March 12-16  7:00am-8:00pm  
Saturday, March 17  8:00am-8:00pm  
Sunday, March 18  8:00am-2:00am  

Regular Hours resume Monday, March 19: Mon-Fri 7:00am-2:00am Sat-Sun 8:00am-2:00am 
This ad is compiled and published by the Student Activities Office, 315 laFortune Student Center. 



O
THE 

page 8 
BSERVER 

Thursday, March 8, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR 
BUSINF.SS MANAGER 
Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey 
SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco 
SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROLLER: Bob Woods 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 

CONTACT Us 
j 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 
FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING ...........................:.........631-6900/8840 . 
) 
observad@nd.edu

' 
EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.........................: ..............631-5313 NEWs..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS..•. , ...................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MAR¥'s.............................................63 l-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO .. ,, ................. '' ............... ······· ...........631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Obsrrverpolicm should be dirrct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
DILBERT 
FROM NOW ON, WE 
WILL CELEt;RATE OUR 
SERVICE R.EP5 WHO GIVE E.~CEPTIONAL CUSTOf'\E.R SERVICE.. 

CLC bickering subverts mi~ion 
Notre Dame's Campus Life Council CLC recognized this shortcoming.should be lauded for succeeding, to a Through a letter they had drafted earli­high degree, in seeking out and targeting er, the students challenged their adult campus concerns. As a governing body counterparts to quell "longstandingwhich brings together students. faculty, feuds, bickering and name-calling." rectors and administra­
"Without a basic sense of tors, the Council has the OtJhe 
respect for one another
userver
unique ability to look at and a willingness to listen issues from multiple per­with an open mind, the spectives of the university Council loses its potential

Editorial
experience. 
But when it comes to implementing policy and effecting change, the CLC continues to fall far short of its promise. The source of this failure has made itself evident at biweekly CLC meetings: Council members bring personal prob­lems to the conference table every fort­night and lack even a basic ability to respect one another as colleagues or members of the Notre Dame community. 
At the group's most recent meeting on Monday, seven student members of the 
QUESTION: WH'< 
WOULD WE CELEBRATE 
EMPLO'<EES WHO DO 
EXTR.A WORK 
WITHOUT GETTING 
EXTRA ?A..Y? 
IT WILL MAKE 
THEM HAPPY. 

tial. Rectors, for example, do not want faculty involved in campus-life issues outside the classroom. Faculty members call into question the scope of adminis­trators' authority. And each side would just as soon not have the other at the meeting table. 
Yet the varying backgrounds and view­points of its members is certainly one of the Council's strongest assets. 
CLC meetings provide an ideal forum for these different segments of the Notre Dame community to gather, debate and, in the end, reach reasonable compro­mises. 
The CLC remains the only body of its type with the express purpose of making policy recommendations directly to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Members would do well to realize that their childish wrangling does not threat­en to undermine the Council's mission ­it already has. 
Remember: Pets aren't people 
If you live in West Hollywood and go home on break, be nice to that dog you used to own. The City Council has decreed that you are no longer a "pet owner" but a "pet guardian." It's the lat­est ordinance," said the L.A. Daily News, "from a city ... in the vanguard of lib­eral causes, from homosexual rights to condom distribu­tion to animal cruel­ty laws." 
"The resolution,'.' according to Mayor Jeffrey Prang, "has a symbolic purpose" as a reminder that animals have rights. 
Questions arise. Can a "guardian" sterilize his or her "ward" without that ward's consent? A new breed of "doggie lawyers" can be counted on to make something and con­tingent fees out of that. Harvard last year started the natidn's first law school course in Animal Rights Law. Princeton's Peter Singer, the father (sorry, parent) of the animal rights movement, attacks "speciesism," which is prejudice against persons of another species. He defines a person as "a rational and self-conscious being." Singer regards "newborn infants and some mental defectives" as nonper­sons. But chimpanzees, dolphins, dogs, cats, bears and even chickens can make the personhood cut. For Singer, ''killing ... a chimpanzee is worse than the killing of a ... defective human who is not a per­son." 
Thus he concludes that "parents of severely disabled babies ... should be allowed to kill a child whose prospects for a minimally decent life are very poor." The animal rights movement has a lighter side. Flughund, a German "canine travel agency," specializes in dream vacations for pets. including dog-


for greatness," the stu­dents wrote. "At the current time we feel that we are not only far from achieving this greatness but also far from being even productive." 
The letter was a bold and courageous statement by the students, who demon­strated more tact and maturity than the older Council members with whom they serve. The students had it right on Monday: The obvious distaste and disre­spect among other CLC members for each other weakens the Council's paten­
gie cinemas (Lassie films are the big favorite), dog restaurants and massage parlors. "People would be surprised," said Flughund's director, "at the range of dog-related holidays ... around the world." 
Let's look at some basics. We know from reason that humans have a spiritu­al soul because we can engage in the spiritual activities of abstraction and reflection. The nature of a spiritual being is that it will not die, since death is the breaking up of a thing into its parts and a spiritual entity has no parts. Therefore we are immortal. Dogs, other animals and plants have souls because the soul is the life principle of something that is alive. The soul of a dog, however, is material. This means that the animal soul is dependent for its existence on the matter of which it is the life principle. We know by observation that animals have no spiritual intellect. They cannot form abstract ideas or reflect on them• selves. Have you ever seen a bird on a tree branch scrutinizing a set of plans? Birds build nests according to the instincts programmed into them by their designer, i.e., God. 
In the nature of things and in God's design, animals themselves have no rights. We can own animals because they are things and not persons. As Thomas Aquinas noted, "The rational plan of divine providence demands that the other creatures be ruled by rational creatures." "[Tlhe order of things," said Aquinas, "is such that the imperfect are for the perfect. ... [I]t is lawful both to take life from plants for the use of ani­mals, and from animals for the use of man." Vatican II described "man" as "the only creature on earth that God has wanted for its own sake." 
"Use of the mineral, vegetable. and animal resources of the universe cannot be divorced from ... moral imperatives .... [S]cientific experimentation on animals, if ... reasonable ... is ... morally accept­able .... It is contrary to human dignity to cause animals to suffer or die needlessly. It is ... unworthy to spend money on them that should ... go to the relief of human misery. One can love animals: one should not direct to them the affec­tion due only to persons." (Catechism, nos. 2415, 2417, 2418.) 
In short, man owes a duty to God to make reasonable use of animals. The animal rights movement, instead, in Singer's words, treats "ethics as entirely independent of religion" and rejects "the idea that human beings are a special form of creation, made in the image of God ... and ... possessing an immortal soul." Our elites foster a culture that rejects God and therefore views man as nothing special. The implicit legitimiza­tion in our law of euthanasia of some patients by "terminal sedation" validates a process that is really no different from putting a dog to sleep. 
"When the sense of God is lost," said John Paul, "there is also a tendency to lose the sense of man, of his dignity and his life." (Evangelium Vitae. no. 21.} 
Every culture has to have a god. Ours rejects the real God and deifies material nature, inanimate as well as animate. It is a new, but old, pagan religion. As an ideology, it tends to apply its principle with rigorous logic. In England the Animal Liberation Front has gone to war in defense of fish and cockroaches. This recently came to light when letter bombs packed with nails exploded in a fish-and­chip shop and in the offices of a pest­control firm. 
So when you go home, be nice to Rex, or whatever your "ward" calls himself. He has friends. And if you are nice to him maybe he will take you along on his next vacation to Maui. 
Prof Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column usually appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily . those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
CAN WE CELEBRATE 
THE SMART EMPLOYEES 50ME OAY? 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Odd things animals. All dogs look up to you. All cats look down to you. Only a pig looks at you as an equal. ,. 
Winston Churchill British statesman 
_________..____________.........._....._ ...____.._.....................~--..-11a111c• 
O
THE Thursday, March 8, 2001 BSERVER page 9 

"'-----¦z---•---•-9"CIIIIIIIE--&.....•.Ill.•.¦
. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Avid Catholics respond to Inside Column 
Writers image of Christ is flawed 
I would like to respond to Colleen McCarthy's Inside Column from March 6. She attacks Giuliani for his condemnation of the artwork that is displayed at the Brooklyn Museum of Art. First, I think it necessary to delve into the motives behind the painting of this work rather than the motives behind the denunciation of it. 
McCarthy claims that, "Christ looks like whatever I want her to look like. For me, Christ is a woman because I can relate best to that image." 
She then defends this by saying that Christ is portrayed as being black in primarily black churches. I do not know where Miss McCarthy was taught but Catholicism generally can not be warped to make you feel more secure about your relationship with God. First of all, if you have to change the sex of the Son of God to be able to pray then there is something a lot more fundamentally wrong with your belief. If I had great relationships with juggling monkeys, should I envision Christ as a monkey juggling two loaves of bread and the Holy Grail at the Last Supper in order to better understand Him? 
Secondly, it is conveniently skipped over that Christ is nude in the painting. The objectifica­tion of the female body in contemporary soci­ety is attacked often. In using a nude woman to portray God, how does this help you relate to Him? It has another motive. The portrayal of Christ as a woman is anti-Catholic. The reason that priests are male is because Jesus and the apostles were all male. The painting in ques­tion is an attack on the Catholic Church and this policy in particular. 
I completely agree with the mayor. The painting is disgusting because Christ is nude. It is anti-Catholic because Christ is a woman. And it is outrageous because its sole purpose is to create shock and arguments, not to further religion. I do not condemn people for praying in any certain way. I do not condemn ways of thinking. But when people condemn my way of thinking. I, like Mayor Giuliani. get a little upset. 
Shawn Newburg 
sophomore O'Neill Hall March 7, 2001 

Interpretations ofChrist 
creative in art, not in fact 
"I've always been taught that Christ looks like whatever I want Her to look like." Oh really! Is this kind of feel good nonsense taught here at Notre Dame? Or if this is part of the writer's elementary and secondary religious education, has basic catechesis been reduced to a new low? 
"For me, Christ is a woman because I can relate best to that image." God have mercy on this kind of nitwittery! IfI could best relate to an image of Christ as a shillelagh swinging son of the old sod who wouldn't hesitate to administer a love tap to the empty skull of a fool, is that an acceptable image to hold because it somehow makes me feel better about myself? 
De gustibus non disputandum may be applicable to individual tastes in art, but it has no place in judging either historical fact (Jesus of Nazareth was a first century Jewish man) or theological ortho­doxy (He is the Son of God in a hypostatic union with a male human body, now in resurrected glory). 
There is nothing misogynist about noting these realties. They just happen to be the truth, the understanding of which seems to be in short supply in the minds of some writing for The Observer from a misdirected heart, but apparently not a fully engaged brain. Have a blessed Lent as the Church reflects more deeply on the paschal mystery of Christ. God knows who He is. He really does. 
Rev. John Patrick Riley, CSC 
pastor Sacred Heare Parish March 7, 200 I 

O'Neill secretary explains shirt 
This letter responds to the letter printed in the March 2 edition of The Observer, "Letter erred on the facts, hurt reputation," submitted by Patrick Miller, Mike Scharpf, Charlie DeRubeis, Bill Lafleur and Walter Pruchnik. First of all, let me say that I am O'Neill Hall's Merchandising Commissioner, the person at the center of this controversy. I have held that position for the last two years and have served O'Neill as its Secretary for the past year. I want to clear the air about the facts of the entire situation and hopefully bring closure to all of this. 
The argument of the aforementioned five men is centered on the premise that they are "giving the facts." The men state, ..We also suggest that in the future, the authors of any letter make sure they have collected all of the facts regarding their issue before sounding off and attacking some­one else's reputation and good name." While I agree with this statement. I find it humorous that these men do not practice what they preach. 
These men never spoke to me to hear exactly what happened in the process of approving and ordering the shirts. That is a pretty big factual omission. Men. if you are making an argument based on fact, then perhaps you should have all the facts first. 
Now, let me give people the clear sequence of events, from my perspective. The first shirt idea thrown on the table at our hall council meetings back in January was that of having a beaver on the back, with the slogan, "More Beavers than at the Fiesta Bowl." I discussed this with Father John, and he did not like the saying, understandably. My understanding the whole time was that he disagreed with the slogan, but did not have a problem with the artwork of a cartoon beaver. This was the first miscom­munication between he and I. We changed the slogan to "More than at the Fiesta Bowl," less blatant, but still questionable to Father John. 
Since we were running out of time to get a shirt approved so we would have them by Mardi Gras, the Hall Presidents and I sat down and had a brainstorm­ing session to come up with an idea. We settled on the slogan, "Show Me Something," just bland enough that it would be ok. We decided that the beaver did not really go along with this saying, so we were going to put a "fleur de lis" on the back instead. I took this design to Fathe~ John and he signed on it. At the next hall coun­cil meeting, many brought up the idea of still putting the cartoon beaver on the shirt, with the "Show Me Something" slogan. I had no problem with this and Father John, who was in attendance at this meeting, did not object. I made an assumption at that point that the shirt design with the cartoon beaver and "Show Me Something" was OK by him and had it approved by Student Activities. 
I ordered 175 T-shirts, nearly $1700 worth of them. This was the second breakdown in commu­nication. My mistake was that I made an assumption, an incorrect one at that and when the shirts arrived and Father John saw them, he was upset. He met with me that evening and told me he felt I deceived him. 
which was never the intention of anyone involved. I explained my thinking to him just as I have to everyone else just now, 
but it was not enough to convince him. He decided to keep the shirts. He would not let them be sold for the dance and was going to have them donated to some charity in Zimbabwe. 
Bill, Walter, Charlie, Mike and Patrick, now you have all the facts and I would encourage that in the future you have all of them before you write letters. The last 
point that I would like to make is in response to the criticism of the T-shirt design made by these five men. They state 
that not all men in O'Neill support the con­·l• tent of the shirt. I would ask that if they are ~ in disagreement with the decisions made by 
our hall council, that they come to our hall council meetings and give their input. Anyone in 
O'Neill can come to these meetings. They are held at 10 p.m. on Tuesday nights in O'Neill's 24 hour lounge. 
Bill, Walter, Charlie, Mike, and Patrick, your ideas and input would be more valuable there than in the Viewpoint section of the Observer. 
Kevin Sarb 
junior O'Neill Hall March 2, 200 l 

Noiseless JACC is every fan's fault 
I agree with alumnus Kevin Kelly's letter on March 4 pleading for more enthusiasm from Joyce Center crowds. Unfortunately, senior Ryan Dick's response attempting to shift the blame away from the student body misses the point. From my observations, students, alumni and all other Notre Dame fans who attend home basketball games are guilty. 
While the JACC has been absurdly quiet all season, the disappearing act by all types of fans at the end of last Sunday's season-ending game against rival Georgetown was especially disrespectful to the team and embarrass­ing to Notre Dame faithful. With approximately four min­utes left in the game and Notre Dame trailing by 8 to 10 points, people started heading for the exits. \,Vith two min­utes to go and the game still within reach, the center was 25 percent empty. 
By the time the game ended and Georgetown was awarded its first Big East division trophy, the arena was more than half empty. Ifthis had been a November game against LIU, I can understand fans leaving early. However, I was angered at the premature exodus at such a momentous game. I wonder how the team felt as they tried to make a late charge and the seats were emptying. 
Furthermore, last Sunday's game might have been the last for one of the best players in Irish history. yet few were there to give him the applause he and his team so deserved. 
Ironically, as I was standing in an almost empty student section at the end of the game. a group of Georgetown fans were cheering their team's victory. At the Big East Championship this weekend, I expect to see that type of enthusiasm from our subway alumni. Hopefully, the fans watching from South Bend will observe and learn about real enthusiasm. 
Jay Gallagher 
MBA student off-campus March 7, 2001 

-. • t a ;;; ca t 2 Li 5 L ii ­
J a 

M 
cene E 
page 10 Thursday, March 8, 2001 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'The Mexican's' star power doesn't f1 
By GUNDER KEHOE Scene Movie Critic 
With "The Mexican," Hollywood came close to making something memorable and different but, like Brad Pitt's character, they took a few wrong turns and ended up stranded on a desert wasteland, choking on dust. 
The film, starring Pitt and Julia Roberts, leaves the viewer thinking about roads not taken: If only DreamWorks had trusted their offbeat idea and not had their direc­tor, Gore Verbinski, polish the edges off something so rugged. While "The Mexican" might suffer from a case of failed potential, there's still value in its original concept, which juggles separate storylines and wavering tones. 
Pitt plays Jerry, a loveable klutz, who's gotten mixed-up with a gangster. Jerry's last job is to head for the borders of Mexico and retrieve a valuable pistol, aptly named The Mexican. Unfortunately, Jerry has his own problems, namely a girlfriend with the unpleasant demeanor of a palm-sized dog. Julia Roberts plays this girlfriend, 


Brad Pitt and Julia Roberts play a bickering couple in "The Mexican." Despite the marketing, Roberts and Pitt only appear in a few scenes together. 

Samantha, and despite the importance of played by James Gandolfini. Gandolfini's Jerry's mission, she wants him to nix his hit man subverts the norm in a "Pulp­trip and move to Vegas with her. Fiction"-esque rendition of a killer with a Considering Jerry's trip is do or die, conscience. Samantha has no reason to complain. But The strength of "The Mexican" is its abil­when Jerry leaves, she flips out anyway ity to balance characters and their many and each party heads personalities. Gandolfini's down their own separate "The Mexican" hitman vacillates between road: Jerry to the Mexican the light-hearted com­desert and Sam to the Las 
mentary on the nature of Vegas strip. love and the cold-hearted 
The ancient pistol is like ability to riddle men with a bar of wet soap, con­out offive shamrocks bullets. This blend of stantly slipping through tones keeps the audience Jerry's fingertips. He on edge and some of the 
Director: Gore Verbinski
stumbles through heat violence drifts into the 
and dust, meeting trigger­Starring: Brad Pitt, Julia exciting realm of dark happy locals and corrupt Roberts and James Gandolfini humor. 
lawmen, all the while searching for a pistol. 

Meanwhile, back in Vegas, Samantha is kidnapped by a rival hit man who thinks she knows the pistol's whereabouts. Even though both love birds are in different nations, their dilemmas turn out the same and, while they've fought like alley cats. Jerry and Sam still dream of being each other's arms. 
The makers of "The Mexican" did their best to keep Jerry and Sam's separate journeys under lock and key. Even though the movie's poster contains a romantic image of Pitt and Roberts nearing a love­able embrace, the two actors barely share the screen. When they do, the romantic sparks are overshadowed by Sam's con­stant bickering, frustrating the audience as much as it does Jerry. 
Roberts does, however, generate some splendid chemistry with her kidnapper, The screenplay by J.H. 
Wyman deserves a lot of credit because he takes the typical sce­nario of impossible love and sends it to Mexico. Besides the exotic locale, Wyman writes witty dialogue and keeps the audi­ence guessing, constantly switching between humor and bloodshed. 
Instead of rehashing the typical plot, Wyman keeps the lovers apart and spins the movie around an ancient pistol. The story of the gun is a tale in its own right and the filmmakers use segments of grainy footage to unfold its past. 
Between the two storylines, Jerry's ren­dezvous in Mexico is more entertaining simply because Pitt can blend rugged mas­culinity and bumbling charm. Indeed, Jerry's struggle with a rabid dog and his stolen "camino" has more appeal than watching Roberts kick and scream. 
The film would've been better had a less-
MOVIE REVIEW 

Two lesser known actors shine in the character-drive1 

By JUDE SEYMOUR Scene Movie Critic 
Simply put, "You Can Count on Me" represents, on many levels, the direction feature films should be heading toward. Written and directed by Kenneth Lonergan, the film throws its audience into a finite time in the lives of two main characters, magnifiying their situations and producing a poignant story about the bonds of family. 
"You Can Count on Me" does not overindulge itself on the melodramatic mire that consumes 

new friendships emerging between Terry and Rudy, and a reinvestment in Terry's current relationship with Sammy. 
The main strength of "You Can Count On Me" is clearly its two main actors: Linney and Huffalo. George Lucas once bragged, "I don't cast stars. I make them." As the movie progresses, it becomes increasingly more diflicult to wager who is turning in the better performance. 
Linney has received an Academy Award nomination, but Ruffalo's performance has even more merit. Since they are both virtual unknowns, and because of their familiarity not only with their lines but also with each other. they could easily 
so many films that try too hard. Instead, "You Can Count convince an audience that they are real it turns in some witticisms, some heavy life siblings. moments and an extraordinarily well Credit goes to Lonergan's writing as
On Me"
handled ending to provide the strength well because he developed the brother­behind its message: When life gets 
sister dynamic so vividly. composing tough, it is important to remember who dialogues with injections of humor, frus­you can count on. tration and sometimes humor embed-. 
The drama in the movie unfolds when out offive shamrocks ded in frustration (consider, for Sammy Prescott (Laura Llnney) receives instance. Llnney's enraged demeanor in a letter from her brother Terry (Mark reaction to Terry's stubbornness, which 
Director: Kenneth Lonergan
Ruffalo). Terry informs Sammy that he leads her to exhort, "You suck!"). is coming to visit her in Upstate New Starring: Laura Linney, Mark Linney's Sammy is one of the best­York. Sammy has never moved out of Ruffalo, Rory Culkin and Kenneth written characters of the year. It was 
the house where she and her brother grew up (they were willed the house Lonergan when, as children, their parents died in a car accident). Terry, on the other hand, is a vagrant; he roams to 
Alaska. Florida or Massachusetts on whims, relying on an unharnessed sense of calling to guide his travels. Terry's main purpose in visiting Sammy is for money, which she 
can provide from her paychecks as a loan officer at a small bank in town (which, incidentally, has just been taken over by an anal retentive manager named Brian, played by Matthew Broderick). 
Terry ends up feeling guilty for taking the money and running back to Massachusetts, but Sammy needs some­one to watch over her eight-year old son. Rudy (Rory Culkin). Therefore, Terry stays in Sammy's house to watch over Rudy. The movie explores the possibilities of fascinating to hear her mode of opera­

tion for life: Upon asked why she is 
entangled in so many dead-end situa­tions with men, she admits, "It's because I feel sorry for them." 
Lonergan plays this angle well. The frustrations build when Linney can no longer multitask a fling with an old boyfriend, her relationship with Ruffalo and a sexual liai­son with Brian. She seeks advice from Father Ron (played by Lonergan himself) who offers a fresh look at the classic priest stereotype. He does not have all the answers; in fact, he has none of them. 
"Can't you tell me I'm going to burn in hell for what I am doing?" a charged Linney screams. However, Father Ron represents the modernity of priests: part psychologist, part emotional healer. Throughout "You Can Count On Me," the metamorphosis of Linney's character is exciting Thursday, March 8, 2001 


page 11 

VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
lllfill its potential 

er-known actress replaced Roberts nival-esque score sounds like a broken 
because. somehow, a film can't star Julia harmonica 
Roberts and still feel offbeat. Even though All in all, ..The Mexican" is worth a 
Pitt is a true movie star, unlike Roberts, look because it still eludes categories ­
he has the unique ability to be edgy and there's a romance but it's not a romantic 
accessible. comedy. The tones range from fluffy 
The real fault with the picture is that it humor to sadistic cruelty. It was rather fell into the wrong hands. Gore Verbinski amusing seeing older audience members might be a whiz with television ads, but looking innocently at the screen, expect­there's not much crossover between sell­ing lively fair from beautiful movie stars. ing a copy-machine and bringing an elu­Their look of whimsy abruptly switched sive concept into the mainstream. to horror as characters repeatedly took 
"The Mexican's" potential was endless bullets in the face. as its screenplay is home to ideas and Not that violence is necessarily amus­images galore. Verbinski filters it through ing but it's always fun to see expectations his eyes. but his final product is too car­thrown into a glass and mixed like a good toon-ish. And it doesn't help that the car-martini. 
n 'You Can Count On Me' 
to behold. title would be invoked, but the film does 
Towards the end of the film, Terry not slip into the overly melodramatic. The decides he cannot be constricted, and his audience can fill in the rest, whispering to driller habits compel him to leave Sammy themselves, "you can count on me," with­and Rudy behind. Lonergan has craftily out Lonergan having Terry do the honors set up an impeding doom: will this be the himself. last contact between Terry and Sammy "You Can Count on Me" was one of the since she was not able to convince him to best original screenplays of 2000. The stay in town? What follows is a well-han­mm didn't flash any stylistic motifs or rely dled exchange that flaunts the talents of on big name stars for its marketing Linney, Ruffalo and Lonergan. The main power; it simply did not have to. The thrust of the conversation is its none-too­futures of screenwriter Lonergan and subtle message: Terry assures Sammy actors Linney and Ruffalo should be that she can count on him. The conversa­jumpstarted by such a complete and tion builds to the point where the movie's wonderful output. 


Photo courtesy of The Shooting Gallery 
Clive Owen gives a Bond-like perfor­mance in Mike Hodges' "Croupier." 
British 'Croupier' is a sure bet 
The details of the casino alone are 
By MATT NANIA 

exciting and enlightening. The film­Scene Movie Editor 
makers pare down the polish and glitz 
of Martin Scorsese's "Casino," provid­
One can't learn much about director ing a bare bones look at real particu­Mike Hodges from reading his resume. lars. Forget the "eye in the sky" and the His debut. "Get Carter" (1971), is con­location of the pit boss, Hodges shows sidered a gangster-thriller cult classic us the blackjack deal, the art of stack­(the Sylvester Stallone remake was ing chips and the ability to size up play­mediocre at best), and since then his ers around the table. choices have been curious, to put it The incisive script begins this analy­politely. He has directed the campy sis during Jack's job interview, with his "Flash Gordon" (1980), numerous TV voiceover illuminating not just his movies and an odd collection of titles knowledge and skills. but his ability to including "A Prayer for survey the boss. whom the Dying'' and "Morons "Croupier" he's figured out instantly. from Outer Space." One Owen's voiceover has wonders what "Get even more panache and Carter" fans thought when Director: Mike Hodges insight than De Niro's Hodges wrote the script readings in "Casino." 
Starring: Clive Owen,
for "Damien: Omen II." In fact. Owen is perfect 
As Hodges approaches Alex Kingston and Gina casting as Jack. His his 70s, though, there's McKee slight, confident look is an finally a new ace up his odd cross between sleeve: "Croupier," a Michael Stipe and Nicolas sharp, perplexing character study that Cage, with a neat show of quiet dis­may gain its own cult status. Based on trust. Although Jack is obviously bril­Paul Mayersberg's script and made two liant, and craves being a popular novel­years ago in the UK, "Croupier" is a hip ist, Owen plays him more as an existen­noir redux, full of shady and shadowy tialist. He keeps his emotions tight, characters, gambling scams, duplicity even when upset, reacting to his life's and mysterious plot twists. twists with a dose of matter-of-fact atti­
The croupier of the title is Jack tude true to the film noir protagonists Manfred (Clive Owen), a thirty-ish to which the script pays homage. wannabe novelist with addiction in his Indeed, Owen's performance is smooth enigmatic past, as we learn from his enough to warrant the rumors that he deadpan voiceover. When his pushy is being considered to take over the father gets him a job as a croupier (or Bond mantle. dealer) in a UK casino. he returns to Gina McKee is also solid as his mixed­the smoky, mirrored atmosphere of his up girlfriend, frustrated over his new weakness. Was he a gambler? A scam line of business, and Alex Kingston artist? Why did he quit? Hodges and makes her cryptic character engaging, Mayersberg keep Jack and his details even if her work on the mucho-popular at arm's length, creating an engaging television series is actually a little bet­mood of edginess and mystery. ter. 
Once Jack throws the tuxedo on and "Croupier" is at its best when Hodges returns to the pit, "Croupier" unfolds a treats the typical scene with an uncon­full hand of supporting characters, ventional approach. When an apparent fleshed out just enough to drive story­heist takes place at the casino, there lines while creating ample puzzlement. are few Hollywood-style close-ups and There's the cheating co-worker who no urgent cutting to_ telegraph the sus­runs with a hard drinking, womanizing pense; the action just sort of happens. crowd; the sluttish femme fatale; and There's an odd wide shot. a single the beautiful South African gambler quick cut, and the viewer wonders with big cash (Alex Kingston from what they just-witnessed. "ER"). Add in the requisite cheats and What happened was Mike Hodges tantalizing, seemingly throwaway bits crafted yet another sequence that com­of dialogue, and you've got a vague pletely contributes to the alluring, com­mystery framed within an intriguing plex style of "Croupier," a film that is a look at small-time casino gambling. sure bet to spiff up that resume. 


~-----~~----:-------------...-----------11111•----------..·------------­
page 12 

The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 8, 2001 
MEN'S BIG EAST TOURNAMENT 

Villanova relies on streaks to beat West Virginia 82-71 
ticipate in any postseason tour­
Associated Press 
nament after finishing with a los­
ing record, the first in Mike 
NEW YORK Jarvis' 16 seasons as a Division I 
Villanova blew most of an 18-head coach. point first-half lead, .then rebuilt Ty Shine had 22 points to lead it on two big runs led by Michael the Pirates, who didn't clinch a Bradley and Derrick Snowden to berth in the conference tourna­defeat West Virginia 82-71 in the ment until beating Connecticut in opening game of the Big East the regular-season finale last tournament. Saturday. 
The victory put the Wildcats Darius Lane added 17 points (18-11) in the quarterfinals on for Seton Hall, while Andre Thursday against Boston Barrett had 12 and center College, probably needing one Samuel Dalembert had 10 more win for an NCAA bid. West points, eight rebounds and seven Virginia (17-11) is a likely NIT blocked shots. pick after bowing out of the Big With Griffin, who leads the East in the first round for the nation in blocked shots at 4.5 per fourth straight time. game, and Dalembert, who aver­
Villanova opened fast and had ages 1.9, dominating inside, the a 29-11 lead with seven minutes Red Storm shot 31.5 percent (23­left in the first half. West Virginia for-73) as they lost their fourth cut that deficit to 10 points, 37 -straight, sixth of seven and 27, at the half and got within 41-eighth of 10. 38 early in the second half. Barrett made two free throws 
Bradley had five points in an to give Seton Hall a 60-4 7 lead 11-0 run that pushed the lead with 9:05 to play, and St. John's back to 14 points. Then, took advantage of an offensive Snowden scored seven points in dry spell by the Pirates to get a 9-0 run that got it back to 18. within 60-51. 
Villanova coasted after that. Griffin then nailed a 3-pointer 
Bradley led four Villanova with 6:22 left -and just three scorers in double figures with 19 seconds remaining on the shot point,; and missed just two of 10 clock -to make it 63-51. The 
shots. Gary Buchanan had 11 Red Storm never got closer than points; Snowden, who was score­nine points the rest of the way. less in the first half. finished with Anthony Glover had 14 points 
13; and Jermaine Medley scored and 13 rebounds for St. John's, 
11. while Omar Cook had 14 points Lionel Armstead led West and eight assists. Virginia with 14, while Calvin Fresh_man Willie Shaw, the Bowman scored 12 and Brooks team's second-leading scorer at 
Berry and Chris Moss added 10 14.1 points, had just five on 2­for-11 shooting. He was coming

apiece. Connecticut to advance to the champion St. John's 78-66 loss layup by Taliek Brown. 
off a 25-point effort against 

quarterfinals of the Big East to Seton Hall earlier in the day, it Allen Griffin, who had a Syracuse on Sunday. 
tournament. marked the first time the teams career-high 31 points on the
Seton Hall 78, St. John's 66 

The Red Storm, who missed 22 The Orangemen (23-7) will from the previous year's title same Madison Square Garden
Freshman forward Eddie 

free throws in the two-point, play Providence on Thursday _ game were both eliminated in court in Sunday's double-over­Griffin scored 13 of his 15 points double-overtime loss to the first meeting of the teams the opening round. The Huskies time win over St. John's to closein the second half and also had Syracuse, were 17-for-34 against 
this season. had become the first team to the regular season, then hit a 3­12 rebounds and five blocked 
Seton Hall. Shumpert, who had 34 points play four games in the tourna­pointer from the left side. Brownshots to lead Seton Hall to a vic­Jarvis, who has a career in Syracuse's 65-60 victory over ment when they made their run­scored again for the Huskies, but tory over St. John's in the open­record of 320-173, coached at 
the Huskies in their only meeting ner-up run last season. Shumpert then hit a dead-on 3ing round of the Big East tourna­Boston University for five sea­of the season, had 21 points at Syracuse shot 56 percent from from beyond the NBA line to givement. 
sons, was at George Washington halftime -just as he did in the the field (l 1-for-26) in taking a Syracuse a 72-57 lead andThe Pirates (15-13), who have 
for eight and just completed his first game. 47-38 halftime lead. The Damone Brown made two free
won two straight after losing 

third at St. John's. Connecticut (19-11) will now Orangemen extended the lead to throws with 6:29 left to restoreeight of nine, will play 18th­have to wait until Sunday to find 66-49 with 10:24 left on a dunk . the 17-point lead. Connecticut
ranked and second-seeded 

out if it will receive an at-large by Damone Brown. The Huskies never got closer than 11 pointsGeorgetown in Thursday's quar­Syracuse 86, Connecticut 75 
terfinals. Preston Shumpert scored 31 bid to the NCAA tournament. were able to get within 66-55 until the final 3-pointer with nine Combined with defending with 8:13 to play on a driving seconds left. 
St. John's (14-15) will not par-points and No. 17 Syracuse beat 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. :H the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
Fraternities*Sororities Clubs*Student Groups 
Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with the easy Campusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising event. No sales required. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today! Contact Campusfundraiser.com at (888) 923-3238, or visit www.campus­fundraiser.com 
Need babysitter, pref. Early ed major, own trans. 2-yr. -old by Martins 272-1205 
Roomate for Suite 2BR+loft Oak Hills Condo View of Dome, Laundry, Fireplace, $400/mo.+ult. Sum&/or next yr. 289-5651 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for children with disabilities. Located on shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, Ml. Positions available for Counselors, Lifeguards, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation/Canoeing, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 17 through August 12. Salary, Room & Board, and experience of a lifetime provided. Call or write for application and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855, (906)228-5770, e-mail BayCliffHC@aol.com 
FOR RENT 
2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT.NEWLY RENOVAED. THREE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 
CALL 
219-298-3800 
3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near campus 2001 /02&summer 272­6306 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1 )4-br $700/month 2)3-br. $600/month WeOII make almost any changes to the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 
4-BR HOUSE! CENTRAL AIR SEC SYS ETC. $600/MONTH. 291-2209 Macos@michiana.org 
3-5 bedroom homes close to campus 232-2595 mmmrentals@aol.com 
2 BR HOUSE PERFECT FOR SIN­GLE/COUPLE $300/MO. Dave 291· 2209 
3-bdrm. House for rent Fall 01. 2 blks from campus 
2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT. NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL 219·298-3800. 
FOR SALE 
SPRING BREAK-DOWNTOWN CHICAGO! $22-25/night-Hostelling Int'! $2 OFF WITH AD 312/360-0300 or www.hichicago.org 
PHONE CARDS $20: 2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR­CHARGE or $20 362 MIN WITH NO FEES 
634-1146 CLAUDIA 
634-4210 SARA 
Wooded 1/2 acre lots 20 minutes to Notre Dame Football. Minutes to US Golf Academy. Contract avail­able. $20,000 Phone (219) 473­0191 
Microwave stand w/storage $175 Call Kim 631-5878 Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic $235 219-862-2088 

89 Toyota Corolla manual 100k highway miles $2300 call 273-3149 
Spring Break Appetizer Mexican Blankets from $12.95 + S&H Mexiconnection.com 
St Jude Novena May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be adc,red and glorified, loved and pre­served throughout the world, now and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus pray tor us. St. Jude, Worker of Miracles, pray for us. St. Jude, Help the hopeless, pray tor us. Say this prayer nine times a day. By the eighth day your prayer will be answered. Publication must be promised. It has never been known to fail. Thank you Saint Jude 
PERSONAL 
The Crush is coming 

Good luck in Cali Irish softball!! 19 days until the home opner!! MD in an SYR dress -sorry I 
missed that. Who has the picture? Whimperin? I don't think so. Yo pet Florida 
Florida Florida Achtung Baby Joshua Tree 
Pop 
Zooropa 
Ann Marie where is pillwoah? 

a a a a 2 1 a 

-&Jl-.;23 11 

Thursday, March 8, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NHL 
Carolina beats Columbus 2-1 with 2 Brind'Amour goals 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. Rod Brind 'Amour scored two goals, his second coming 
4:52 into the third period, as the Carolina Hurricanes edged the Columbus Blue Jackets. 
The Hurricanes almost let two crucial points slip away against the expansion Blue Jackets, but Brind'Amour helped Carolina improve to a season-high five games over .500. 
The win also pushed Carolina two points ahead of Boston for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference with 16 games left. 
The Blue Jackets had won three straight -all by 5-2 scores -but managed just 17 shots after coming off their best offensive streak of the year. Columbus had a four-game winning streak in November. 
Niclas Wallin blocked a shot in Carolina's end to start the game-winning rush, feeding Martin Gelinas for an odd-man break with Brind'Am our. The veteran center didn't get good wood on his shot from the slot, but it fooled Ron Tugnutt and slipped between his legs. 
Brind'Amour, who got off to a slow start, has 34 points in his last 29 games. 
Brind'Amour scored his 15th of the season midway through the first period with eight seconds left on Carolina's first power play. 
Sandis Ozolinsh faked a shot from the left point and found a wide open Brind'Amour to the left of Tugnutt, who was defenseless. 
Ozolinsh, who has slumped during much of an injury­riddled season, has five points in his last five games. 
The Blue Jackets tied it at 1 just 32 seconds into the second when Alexander Selivanov rifled one off the left post past Arturs lrbe. 
Sharks 3, Panthers 3 
San Jose's Scott Thornton scored a career-high three goals, including the tying tally with 1:36 left as the Sharks and Florida Panthers tied. 
Len Barrie had a goal and two assists for a career-best three-point game, but it wasn't enough as Florida extended its winless streak to a season-high eight games (0-5-2-1). 
San Jose extended its sea-" son-worst winless streak to 0-4-1-1. 
Florida trailed 2-1 after two periods before Pavel Bure scored his league-lead­ing 45th goal on a power play at 14:22 of the third. 
Robert Svehla beat rookie goalie Evgeni Nabokov from the slot at 17:36 to give Florida a 3-2 lead. Joey Tetarenko earned his first NHL point on the play. 
But Thornton streaked up ice, and despite defensive pressure from Svehla, mus­cled it off goalie Roberto Luongo and into the net for his 17th goal and first career hat trick. 
One night after losing its first overtime game of the season, San Jose failed to hold a lead after two periods for the first time this season (16-0-1 ). 
Mike Ricci assisted on all three of Thornton's goals, while Brad Stuart had two assists. 
With the game tied at 1, Luongo got his glove on Ricci's initial back-hander from the slot, but a wide­open Thornton swatted in the rebound at 17:27 of the second period. 
San Jose has never won a road game from the Panthers (0-2-5). 
Capitals 4, Penguins 3 
Jeff Halpern scored the game-winning goal with 3:20 remaining after Mario Lemieux-led Pittsburgh ral­lied from two goals down in the third period, as the Washington Capitals beat the Penguins. 
Richard Zednik had a goal and two assists as the Capitals opened a seemingly safe 3-1 lead in the third, squandered it as the Penguins scored twice in 3 1/2 minutes, then rallied themselves to improve to 8­0-1 on the road since Jan. 27. 
The Capitals not only beat the Penguins for the second time in five days to go to 13­1-2-1 in their last 17 games, they won in Pittsburgh for the first time in eight games since Nov. 12, 1997. 
Lemieux, angry after draw­ing a goal-producing penalty in the third period, scored 

his 25th goal and set up Alexei Kovalev's 40th to quickly make it 3-all. 
But Halpern won it with his 17th of the season, tak­ing advantage of goalie Jean-Sebastien Aubin's ill­advised sprawl even before the puck was shot to flip a wrister into the top of the net. 
Sergei Gonchar and Zednik scored second-period goals to give Washington a 2-1 lead, and Adam Oates' power-play goal at 9:17 of the third period put the Capitals two goals up. 
That goal resulted from a roughing penalty on Lemieux, who complained earlier to the referees about several infractions he felt weren't called.. 
Lemieux came flying out of the penalty box and quickly helped set up Kovalev's goal at 10:27, then scored the tying goal at 13:57 by one­timing Martin Straka's pass by Olaf Kolzig. Both Pittsburgh goals were on the power play. 
Before that, the Capitals appeared to turn the game around by scoring twice in just over 2 1/2 minutes of what lately had been the Penguins' most dominant period, the second. Pittsburgh outscored oppo­nents 27-6 in the second period of their 12 most recent victories, during a span in which the Penguins won 12 of 18. 
James Black faked a shot from the right circle, only to slip the puck through the slot to Gonchar for his 16th goal, at 8:45 of the second. 
Oilers beat Curtis Joseph and the Toronto Maple Leafs for the first time in nearly three years. 
Ethan Moreau opened the scoring at 8:40 of the first period, while Todd Marchant, Dan Cleary and rookie Mike Comrie also scored for the Oilers, who won their sixth straight game. 
The Oilers had lost eight in a row to Toronto, with Joseph, a former Oiler, in goal each time. Edmonton's last win against Toronto was a 4-3 victory at Maple Leaf Gardens on April 18, 1998. 
Moreau got his eighth of the season when Marchant kept the puck in the Maple Leafs zone and found Moreau open in front of the net. He snapped a shot past Joseph. 
Comrie's goal came after he took a feed in front and held on to the puck until Joseph went down. Comrie then roofed the puck over him to put the Oilers up 3-0. Joseph robbed Comrie moments before by getting his glove on a similar high shot. 
Marchant made it 4-0 on a fluky play at 11:58 of the third period. The puck slid along the boards and hit Ryan Smyth's helmet on the ice, bouncing right to Marchant for an unassisted goal into an empty net. Joseph vacated the crease to play the puck before it bounced off the helmet. 
Comin·g off a victory at Calgary on Tuesday, Toronto looked tired against a well­rested Edmonton squad. The 

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
631-6316 
Store Hours for Spring Break 

Saturday, March 10 9:00am -7:00pm Sunday, March 11 11:00am -7:00pm Monday, March 12 through Saturday, March 1 7 9:00am -7:00pm Sunday, March 18 11:00am -7:00pm Monday, March 19 Normal Store Hours 9:00am -10:00pm 
With the Penguins' Darius Kasparaitis off for interfer­ence, Zednik put the Capitals ahead 2-1 with a power-play goal at 11:24, taking Glen Metropolit's pass from behind the net and wristing it by Aubin from just in front of the crease. 
Kevin Stevens somehow steered a back-hander with his back turned to the net to put Pittsburgh ahead 1-0 in the first. 
Oilers 4, Maple Leafs O 
Tommy Salo made 25 saves for his sixth shutout of the season as the Edmonton 

Oilers were off since defeat­ing Minnesota on Friday, and consistently beat Toronto to the puck. 
Edmonton took 27 shots in the first two periods alone. Joseph finished with 31 saves. 
The Maple Leafs appeared to score a goal in the closing minutes of the second peri­od, which would have put them within two, but Gary Roberts was called for goal­tender interference after Janne Niinimaa pushed him into Salo. Roberts argued vigorously, and was given a 10-minute misconduct. 


page 14 Thursday, March 8, 200I
The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
NFL 
Selig: Blue Jays' trade 

Aikman released by Cowboys 


fRIDAYS-LENT SPECIAL All-You-Can-Eat Fish Fry
Lake Perch, fries & coleslaw, 8.99 
escape the 
EVERY WEDNESDAY 

Give a cold shoulder to your "usual" night out & warm-up 
your winter with a sizzling taste of summer: a tender filet (13.99), 
t-bone (17.99) or our specialty, 12oz. of USDA prime New York 
strip (14.95). Lighter optiors, too! 
NOW OPEN FOR LATE NIGHT 
>> gou--r\l Bt;.NO'Q B\GG(;.Q I PAR,1Y<< 

DINIH6 FRIDAY &SATURDAY 
222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND•219.234.5200 

222 S MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND 219-234·5200
s1 COVER (WITH COLLEGE ID, MUST BE 21) AND LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO. CAll. THE HEARTLAND CONCERT & EYlNT UNE 219.251,2568•MORE PICTURES OWWW.HEARTLANDSOUTHBEND.COM 


--------,~----,,--------------... 
Associated Press
for damaged Sirotka, 
DALLAS 
He came to the Dallas
Wells, will stand 
Cowboys a top overall choice in the draft and immediately 
Assodated Press 
was labeled the franchise's savior. 
DUNEDIN, Fla. 
Twelve 
The Toronto Blue Jays are stuck with Mike Sirotka's bad left 
seasons,
shoulder. 
10 con­
In a 14-page decision, commissioner Bud Selig ruled Wednesday 
cussions 
the six-player trade that sent David Wells to the Chicago White Sox 
a n d 
for Sirotka will stand. 
t h re e 
With Sirotka injured and unable to pitch for the foreseeable 
S u p e r 
future, the Blue Jays asked that the deal be reworked -or possi­
B o w I 
bly even rescinded. 

champi­
Aikman
Instead of awarding compensation, Selig bluntly told the Blue 
onships
Jays "buyer beware." As in, they should've fully checked out 
later,
Sirotka before making the trade Jan. 14. 
fans of star quarterback Troy
"After careful consideration of all the information before me, I Aikman agreed that a recent 
uphold the transaction and deny the Toronto club's claim for 
string of injuries and poor
relief," Selig said. 
performances meant it proba­
"Although there is a dispute about whether certain facts about 
bly was best that he was 
Sirotka's condition were disclosed before the clubs agreed to the 
waived by the team 
trade, the Toronto club talked directly to Sirotka about his health Wednesday. 
on the day of the trade and believed it had the opportunity to make "An era has come to an end 
the trade conditional," Selig said. "The Blue Jays never elected to 
and a future Hall of Farner is do so." 
no longer on the team," said Blue Jays president Paul Godfrey 'jaid he was "quite disappoint­
Bob Keith of Dallas, sitting at ed" by the ruling, but added there would be no appeal or legal 
a table at a bar with friends. action. 
"He's at the end of his career. 
Toronto general manager Gord Ash did not mention rookie White 
He's pushing the envelope a Sox GM Ken Williams by name, then said, "to me, the most impor­
lot." tant element is trust and the code of honor." Cowboys owner Jerry Jones 
As for future deals, Ash said, "I can no longer accept anybody's had two choices: waive the word." 34-year-old Aikman bySaid Williams: "Obviously, I'm pleased with the outcome." Thursday or pay him a $7 ..When I was engaged in conversations prior to the trade, I never million bonus and extend his imagined we'd be at the point we are today," he said at the team's contract through 2007. Either spring training camp in Tucson. Ariz. way, Aikman still will take up 

a a a 21 z a a SL a 1111
' 

$10 million of Dallas' $67.4 paid player in NFL history, is million salary cap this sea­coming off his worst season son. since the Cowboys went 1-15 
Others blamed Jones for his rookie year. He was the Aikman's departure. lowest-rated starting quarter­
"The wrong guy left," said back in the NFC and threw a Cowboys fan Chris Coker. "Be career-worst five intercep­the owner, but if he wants to tio-ns against the New York coach, go down on the field Giants. He missed five games and coach. If not, stay up in with injuries and was the owner's box and stop knocked out of three more, meddling." all in the first quarter. 
Aikman, a six-time Pro It was a sharp contrast to Bowler who holds practically his earlier success, during all the Dallas passing records, which he compiled impressive sustained two concussions in numbers: 2,898-of-4,715 11 games last season and (61.5 percent) for 32,942 
twice needed epidural inj ec• tions to relieve ':4n era has come 
back pain. 
to an end and a

He called 
Wednesday's future Hall ofFarner decision "mutu­is no longer on the team." 
al and amica­ble." 
Bob Keith 

Rex Walcher of Henryetta, Dallas fan Okla., said it was time to let Aikman go. pursue Aikman. 
"I think they probably made "I'd like to play somewhere. the right decision, though I Whether that's able to work hate to see it," said Walcher, out or not, I don't know. 
who knew Aikman in high There's nothing definitive," school. "Put in their position, Aikman said. I probably would have made Still. some wanted Aikman the same decision. You have to remain in Dallas. 
to put the company and the "I hope he'll stay with the team ahead of what you think Cowboys, maybe as a coach," personally." said Shannon Widney of Aikman, once the highest-Frisco. 
yards, 1 6 5 touch­downs and 141 intercep­tions. 
Despite h i s injuries, 
o t h e r t e am s 
C O U } d 

Thursday, March 8, 200 l 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
IDITAROD 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Associated Press 
TAKONTA, Alaska 

Defending champion Doug Swingley closed in on leader Linwood Fiedler Wednesday, while tired dogs forced many mus hers in the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race to give their teams a break here. 
Fiedler, competing in his 13th Iditarod, rested his team for just a half-hour at Ophir, a gold-mining ghost town 443 miles from Anchorage, before pressing on toward lditarod, 90 miles away. lditarod is roughly the halfway point in the 1,100­mile race. 
"It looks to me like he has a thunderbolt by the tail and he's hanging on," said three­time champion Jeff King of Denali Park, who decided to give his team a long rest at Takotna. 
Fiedler, a Willow musher who finished 19th last year, placed in the top 10 in 1990 and 1998, finishing eighth both times. Swingley has dominated the race for two years. Last year he set the race record, reaching Nome in nine days, 58 minutes. 
Sixty-eight teams began the trek from Anchorage to Nome on Sunday. Two mushers have scratched: Chuck King of Tempe, Ariz., · who has AIDS and was com­peting as an inspiration to others, and Mike Nosko of Willow who withdrew after a snowmachiner hit and injured his team. 
Lead narrowing for Fiedler Crum retires after loss 
Swingley gave his team no The weather worked to 

in conference tourney 
rest at Ophir,. pushing King's advantage in 1993. 
through at 7:35 a.m. and He was between Safety and gaining on Fiedler, who had Nome that year when a left at 7 a.m. Mitch Seavey of storm separated him from Associated Press Seward reached Ophir at the others, he said. He 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. lowed by John Baker of hour and a half in front of 
9:40 a.m. and settled in, fol­pulled into Nome about an 

LeAndrew Bass scored 16 Kotzebue at 12:43 p.m. Both DeeDee Jonrowe of Willow 
points and Will Campbell are apparently taking their to win the race. 
added 13 as UAB beat required long rest there. Swingley could be making 
Louisville 7 4-61 in the opening Rick Mackey, the 1983 a mistake this year by push­
round of the Conference USA winner, came through Ophir ing his team too far before 
Tournament Wednesday. at 2:10 p.m., heading out resting them, King said. 

The loss ended the 30-year eight minutes later to join "Those dogs aren't made 
career of Hall of Fame coach the two leaders on the trail of steel." he said. 
Denny Crum, who ranks 15th to Iditarod. King and Martin Buser will 
among Division I coaches with Mushers are required to have a chance to over take 
675 victories. Crum, who led give their the leaders, 
the Cardinals to six Final teams a 24-since they'll 
Fours and two national cham­pionships, announced his
hour rest at "/t looks to me like head out 20 

retirement last Friday.
s o m e or 21 hours
he has a thunderbolt 

"It's been a long career," on the trail. by the tail and Fiedler, but 
checkpoint a f t e r 

Crum said. "All I can say at 
this point is I wish it hadn't
Teams also hes hanging on." with the 24­

ended here tonight. I thinka r e hour rest required to already that at this point I'm happy
Jeff King 

that I'm going to get to do eight-hour musher them. 
take an behind 

some things and spend some 
rest along the Yukon River and at White Mountain near the finish. 
King said better-trained teams are allowing more mushers -not just the top racers -to go further before taking the mandatory 24-hour rest, increasing the competitiveness of the race. 
That worked to Swingley's advantage in 1999. King said. Swingley was just two hours ahead of him when a storm separated Swingley from the other teams. 
"It was just divine inter­vention in '99 between us," King said. 
Three-
time cham­pion Buser said every mush­er tries to keep to his game plan, but ultimately it's the welfare of the dogs that dic­tates. 
M ushers· use the long rest not only to catch up on sleep but to spend more time tending to their dogs. Routine care involves putting ointment between the pads of their feet to keep them from splitting, and massaging sore muscles. Veterinarians also check the dogs at each checkpoint before allowing them to con­tinue. 

Cincinnati at 7 p.m. Thursday. 
Senior Rashad Brooks scored a career-high 21 points in his final game to lead Louisville (12-19). which finished with the second-worst record in Crum's tenure. Senior Marques Maybin added 12 points in his final game. 
UAB outrebounded Louisville 41-38 and shot 56 percent to the Cardinals' 31 percent. 
UAB led by four at halftime and increased the margin to 40-35 at the 13-minute mark. A 9-1 run put the Blazers up 49-36 with 9:40 to play and ended the Cardinals' hopes of extending Crum's career at least one more day. 
Louisville pulled to within seven down the stretch but got no closer. Following the game, the Freedom Hall crowd gave Crum a lengthy cheer and standing ovation as he took one final bow at midcourt. 
Both teams came out cold as UAB struggled to an 11-10 lead midway through the first half. After a handful of lead changes, Ball's 3-pointer at the buzzer gave the Blazers a 27­23 lead at halftime. 
UAB did most of its damage from the inside, hitting 8-of-14 from 9 feet and closer. Offensive rebounding and long­range shooting kept Louisville close as the Cardinals pulled down 12 offensive boards and shot 4-of-13 on 3-pointers. 
For the half, UAB shot 46 percent to Louisville's 28 per­cent, and each team grabbed 20 rebounds. 
time with my family and friends. This job is very demanding. I've given my life to it. But I don't regret any­thing." 
Crum will continue to serve the university in various pro­jects. 
"It's been a 30-year love affair (with the University of Louisville} that is not going to end," he said. "I intend to still work at the university, but the basketball part for me is over, and that's OK." 
David Walker. P.J. Arnold and Eric Batchelor each added 10 points for the eighth-seeded Blazers (17-13), who advanced to take on top-seeded 

Jackie Esworthy was killed by a drunk driver one week after her high school graduation. 
What should you do to stop a friend from driving drunk?. Whatever you have to. 
Friends don't let friends drive drunk. 


-·-· ·-­


and 10 rebounds, and Cassell nine of their last 11. four of five 3-point baskets, the throws each to seal the win. Associated Press added seven assists for Keith Van Horn scored 21 Hawks built a 23-point lead Washington finished 20-of-22 
Sprewell lights up Pacers for 26 points in 79-75 Knick win 


Milwaukee, which won despite points, Stephon Marbury had 20 twice, the last with 5:08 from the line. INDIANAPOLIS Ray Allen's 1-for-10 shooting p-oints and tied a season-high remaining before halftime on a Murray scored 21 points -17 
Latrell Sprewell scored 26 from the field. Allen went 11-with 14 assists and Kenyon dunk by DerMarr Johnson. in the second quarter -and points, including the go-ahead for-13 from the free-throw line Martin added 14 points for New Kukoc, however, managed Chris Gatling 13 for the Cavs. basket with 14 seconds left. as with nine rebounds and six Jersey, which had a two-game only three points in the second Cleveland's second unit out­the New York Knicks scored the assists. winning streak snapped. half to finish with 26. played its starters and was the final 10 The game was close most of With the Sixers holding a 91-The Rockets got within four reason the Cavs seemed in con­points and the way until Milwaukee went 90 lead, Iverson scored five points, 7 5-71, on a three-point trol at 79-70 on Murray's layup beat the on an 8-1 run -including a 3-straight points to give them play by Shandon Anderson with with just under four minutes Indiana pointer, a slam dunk and a free their biggest advantage, 96-90. 4 7 seconds left in the third peri­left. Pacers 79-throw by Thomas -to turn a After Aaron Williams hit two od and went ahead on a 3-point The Wizards couldn't do any­7 5 five-point game into a 92-80 free throws, Philadelphia basket by Cuttino Mobley that thing right in the first six min­Wednesday lead with 3:30 to play. scored seven of the next nine to made it 84-83 four minutes into utes of the fourth period, mak­night. The Celtics cut it to five points open up a 102-94 advantage the final period. ing seven turnovers and missing 
l 
The victo­on a pair of 3-pointers by with 35 seconds left. The run Mobley finished with 21 their first four field goals as the ry snapped Walker and a long 2-pointer by consisted of a three-point play points, Anderson added 15 and Cavs opened their lead. a seven­Pierce. But they turned the ball by Mutombo and jumpers by Kelvin Cato had 14 for Houston. Murray, who didn't play in game road over the next time down, then Iverson and Eric Snow. Atlanta went back ahead on a the first quarter and has been losing streak for the Knicks and Walker missed a 3 off the front A 3-pointer by Iverson with basket by Wright at 94-92 with coming off the bench lately,
stretched Indiana's losing of the rim and the Bucks hit 8:23 left in the fourth quarter 3:06 left in the game and held scored 17 points in the final streak to four games. enough free throws to ice it. gave Philadelphia an 85-83 in until Francis' 3-pointer. 8:23 of the second period as the The Pacers led 7 5-69 after Al Walker went 7-for-14 from 3-lead, its first advantage since Cavs' second unit overcame a Harrington's two free throws point range, hitting two in the making the first basket of the 12-point deficit for a 50-49 half­
Wizards 88, Cavaliers 83
with 4:11 to go. But Sprewell first quarter to break the team game. time lead. 
Mitch Richmond scored 1 7 
l 
and Glen Rice then hit back-to­record for 3-pointers in a sea­The Nets held onto a lead for Cleveland scored 11 straight
points and the Washington
back 3-pointers to tie the game son. He now has 156, surpass­most of the third quarter, going points in an 18-4 run and made
Wizards rallied in the final four
and the Pacers didn't score ing Dana Barros' total of 149 in ahead by as many as seven. The 14 of its first 18 shots while
minutes to snap a seven-game
again. 1995-96. Sixers tied the game at 62 but shooting 67 percent (14 of 21)
losing streak with a win over
Indiana had two chances to Milwaukee had four technical New Jersey retained a 79-73 from the floor in the quarter.
l 
the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
go back in front, but Jermaine fouls in the game, and Boston advantage after three. Murray was 7-for-9.
The Cavs have dropped 18 ofO'Neal missed two free throws had one -a double technical New Jersey led by as many as 20 and 31 of 38 to put coachwith 1:14 to go and Jalen Rose on Walker and Scott Williams in 12 in the first quarter and eight Randy Wittman's job in serious Mavericks 93, Heat 86lost the ball out of bounds with the second quarter. Williams in the second, but the Sixers jeopardy. Cleveland followed up Dirk Nowitzki scored 2932 seconds left. fouled Walker in the lane, then scored five of the last seven a loss Tuesday in Chicago to the points and Michael Finley hit aSprewell then hit from 14 feet Walker came up and leaned on points of the half to pull to with­lowly Bulls -the NBA's worst pair of 3-pointers in the fourth to give the Knicks their first him until Williams pushed in four, 56-52. 
team -with another dud quarter as the Dallas Maverickslead since midway through the Walker away, drawing the tech­Each team shot the ball well against the league's second­defeated the Miami Heat. 
second quarter. Travis Best, nical. in the half, with Philadelphia worst squad. The Mavs won for the fourthwho started in place of the sus­Walker was whistled making 21 of 38 (55 percent) · The Wizards trailed 79-70 time in five games and handedpended Reggie Miller, missed a moments later for no apparent and the Nets hitting on 21 of 39 

with 3:54 left and scored just the Heat only their third loss in 20-footer and Rice rebounded . reason while he was walking (54 percent) . three field goals in the fourth their last 17 home games. 
with three seconds to go. toward the scorer's table. 

quarter. But they made 14 of 16 Nowitzki shot 10-for-16 fromRice, who finished with 16 Later in the second, Darvin Rockets 104, Hawks 98 free throws in the final period the floor and 5-for-8 from 3­points, was fouled by Rose and Ham was called for a technical Steve Francis made a 3-point to win for just the second time point range as the Mavericks
hit two free throws for the final for hanging on the rim, pulling shot 54.5 percent. Steve Nash
basket with 25. 3 seconds left in 16 games while handingpoints of the game. himself up and slapping the and the Houston Rockets came Cleveland its sixth straight loss. added 19 points and seven 
Rose led the Pacers with 21 backboard with both hands. 

back from two 23-point deficits Richard Hamilton scored 17 ·assists, and Finley and Juwan points, while O'Neal finished to beat Atlanta and send the points, Hubert Davis 14 and Howard each added 16 points.
with 17 points and 14 rebounds 76ers 102, Nets 94 Hawks to their season-high Jahidi White had 13 rebounds Anthony Mason led Miami and tied his career high with Allen Iverson had 38 points, ninth straight loss. for the Wizards, who didn't with 25 points and Brian Grant seven blocked shots. 

including 14 in the fourth quar­Francis, who scored 17 of his score their first field goal of the scored 23. The Heat were play­Miller was suspended for one ter. as the Philadelphia 76ers 31 points in the final period, hit fourth until 4:34 remained ing for the first time without game by the NBA for throwing a rallied for a victory over the his 3-pointer to put the Rockets when Michael Smith hit a scoop leading scorer Eddie Jones. who wad of chewing gum that hit an New Jersey Nets. ahead 100-98 after Atlanta, underneath. dislocated a shoulder Mondayofficial late in the Pacers' 97-83 Sixers guard Allen Iverson which lost its seventh in a row Davis, forced to play some against the Pistons and mightloss at New York on Tuesday. 
shoots around Nets forward at home, had taken a 98-95 point guard with Chris Whitney not be back until the playoffs. New York led by six points Aaron Williams in the third lead on a free throw by injured, scored 10 straight Nash's layup put Dallas ahead 
late in the first quarter, but 

quarter.The Sixers scored the Lorenzen \Vright with 1: 17 left. points in a 1:43 span as the for good, 75-74, with 6:56 left. 
Rose pulled the Pacers within Wizards grabbed an 80-79 lead Finley hit a pair of 3-pointers.
first basket of the game and The Rockets won for the 11th one with a basket and an off­with left the second one putting the Mavs

then trailed until the fourth, time in 14 games in their late­2:11 on two free
balance, desperation 3-pointer throws by Hamilton. up 86-78 with 3:20 left. 
when they outscored the Nets seascm rush for a playoff spot. 

at the buzzer. A layup by Best Richmond's two free throws Dallas led 46-40 at halftime
27-15. Iverson was 13-for-14 Houston's Walt Williams, who 

gave Indiana its first lead early behind Nowitzki's 17 points. 
; 
from the foul line, making all had 17 points, added two free put Washington ahead 84-81 
in the second quarter. 

: l~ 
six of his attempts in the fourth throws with 16 .8 seconds with 18 seconds left, and after The Heat used a 12-4 run in 
' I 
There were four more lead quarter. remaining and Francis made a Lamond Murray missed a 3-the third quarter to tie the 
changes and six ties before the

r i Tyrone Hill had 13 points and pair with 3.4 seconds left as pointer, Courtney Alexander game at 54-54 on Mason's halftime break. 14 rebounds, Aaron Mc Kie Houston scored the final nine and Richmond made two free jumper with 6:46 left. 
Six straight free throws by 
scored 12 points .and Dikembe points of the game. 
Rose put the Pacers up 37-35. 
Mutombo had 11 points and 12 With Toni Kukoc scoring 23After another tie at 41, Rose rebounds for the 76ers, who first-half points, hitting on eightscored again and O'Neal hit two have won three in a row and of his first nine shots including
free throws with 21 seconds left to put Indiana up 45-41 as the first half ended. 
The Knicks pulled within one with a basket and free throw by 

lilill¦llill 
Kurt Thomas, but Indiana quickly pushed the lead to seven on consecutive 3-pointers by Sam Perkins and took a 64­57 lead into the final period. 
dance with you
Bucks 101, Celtics 94 
Sam Cassell scored 24 points and Tim Thomas came off the 
Molly Nortonl 
bench to add 22 points and 10 rebounds, leading the Milwaukee Bucks to victory over the Boston Celtics. 
Antoine Walker had 36 points and 11 rebounds and Paul Pierce had 30 and 10, but 
Happy 21 stl Boston's three other starters were held scoreless as the 
Love, the Girls
Celtics, who had a chance to move into a tie for the eighth and final Eastern Conference playoff spot, lost for the seventh time in nine games. 
Glenn Robinson had 10 points Wednesday, March 7, 2001 


The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Belle will probably end career 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. 

Albert Belle and the Baltimore Orioles agree that it's "highly unlikely'' he will ever appear in another base­ball game, according to a source familiar with his con­versations with the team. 
Belle, who hasn't played in any spring training games because of his injured right hip, was examined \,Vednesday by two team doctors. 
Belle, Orioles owner Peter Angelos and the players' asso­ciation had conversations about how to proceed with the outfielder's departure, said the source, who spoke on the con­dition he not be identified. 
"Everyone has agreed it is highly unlikely he will play baseball again," the source said. 
Belle's agent, Arn Tellem, spoke with his client Wednesday but not with the doctors and didn't want to dis­cuss their diagnosis. Tellem said Belle has a severe case of degenerative arthritis. 
"He's considering what the doctors had to say and trying to make the best decision for himself," Tellem said. 
A decision on Belle's future could come as early as Thursday, Tellem said. 
Baltimore owes Belle $13 million in each of the final three seasons of his $65 mil­lion, five-year contract, but 70 percent of each season's total is covered by insurance. The team's options appear to be releasing him or placing him on the 60-day disabled list for each of the next three seasons. 
Belle has missed all six of the Orioles' exhibition games because of the injury, which has left him with a noticeable limp and the realization that his career might be over. 
The result of the examina­tions by orthopedic specialist Michael Jacobs and Dr. Charles Silberstein. 
Belle made a quick visit to the Orioles' training complex Wednesday morning. He drove away without speaking to reporters. 
-WBAL, the Orioles' radio flagship station, reported that Belle would announce his retirement this week, and Belle said in an interview with USA Today that it would take a "miracle" for him to play again. 
The Orioles have been seek­ing to resolve a 
' 
to serve at least as a designat­ed hitter. 
"I understand the situation with Albert is important for everybody. Yeah, I'd rather not have it, and I'm sure Albert would rather not have it," Hargrove said. "It's going to run its course." 
Belle played in 232 consecu­tive games, then the longest current streak in the majors, before sitting out an Aug. 27 game against Tampa Bay last season. He played in the Orioles' next six games"before missing 20 games in September with an inflamed bursa sac in the ri"ght hip pointer. 
He returned to play in the final six games of the season and finished with 103 RBIs, his ninth straight season with at least 100. It's the fourth­longest streak in baseball his­
tory. 
There's little 
situation  "He's considering what  chance  Belle  
that has dragged for weeks.  the doctors had to say and trying to make the  will have a chance to make it 10 in a row.  
"I  would  best decision for himself.··  If Belle  can­ 
think that's  not play, Chris  
another step on the  Arn Tellem  Richard and Brady Anderson  
way to see­ Belle's agent  would  cover  
ing  where  right field, and  
we're  at  Jeff  Conine  

with Albert, and Albert also would take most of the at-bats seeing where he is," Baltimore as the right-handed DH. manager Mike Hargrove said. Hargrove has had his share 
"It's another step in the of run-ins with Belle, dating process." back to the days when both 
With three weeks left in were with the Cleveland spring training, Hargrove has Indians. But the manager been unable to establish the hates seeing Belle's stormy makeup of his outfield or career conclude in this fash­determine if Belle will be able ion. 


General admission 12:00pm -5:00pm 
$5 per person at the door 
Seminars and panel discussions with the professionals 
Main fashion show at 3:00pm 
contact 
VIP ticket holders 10:00am -5:00pm 
$10 per person (advance purchase only) limited to 200 guests 
Guests will have exclusive time with vendors from 10am to noon Private fashion show from 11am to noon 

Jessica Saras at ProShow, 271-7 469 for VIP tickets and more information 
NCAA official says legal, illegal betting threatens integrity 
Associated Press 
CARSON CITY, Nev. 

A top NCAA official told Nevada lawmakers on Friday that legal and illegal betting is threatening the integrity of every college game. 
William Saum, the NCAA's director of Agent and Gambling Activities, also told Nevada legislators, regula­tors and gambling industry figures that point-shaving is the best example of how college sports betting ruins games. 
"I have witnessed students, their families and institu­tions publicly humiliated," Saum said. "I have seen stu­dents expelled from college, lose athletics scholarships worth thousands of dollars, and jeopardize any hope of a professional career in athletics." 
The NCAA has been lobbying Congress to pass a law 
banning all betting on college and amateur sports. 
Members of the state's Assembly Judiciary Committee 
reacted by promptly passing a resolution urging Congress 
not to outlaw Nevada's legal sports betting industry. The 
state's Senate is expected to do the same when they 
receive the Assembly resolution. 
Sen. Dina Titus, a professor at UNLV. said she has 
never heard that student gambling was a problem. If it is, 
she said the NCAA should focus on getting universities to 
do something instead of trying to place regulations on 
Nevada, the only state to allow such betting. 
Lawmakers also said Nevada's strict regulation of legal 
sports gambling prevents point-shaving from happening 
more often. 
State Gaming Commission chairman Brian Sandoval 
said the NCAA's efforts to ban sports betting would "elim­
inate Nevada's watchdog role in this whole process." 
Bill Bible, head of the Nevada Resort Association, which 
represents major hotel-casinos, said Saum and the NCAA 
"are using Nevada as a scapegoat for their inadequacies." 
"To say the least, we are insulted and disappointed by 
the NCAA's bewildering position," Bible said. 
Legislators estimated that legal sports betting repre­
sents less than 1 percent, or $2.5 billion. of an estimated 
$380 billion bet around the nation every year on sports. 
One-fourth of the Nevada betting involves college games. 
Saum estimated that 25 percent of student basketball 
and football athletes bet on their games, and the NCAA 
has been urging universities to do more to stop sports 
betting. 

"This isn't about the NCAA against the state of Nevada," 
Saum said. "We have never said that if Nevada makes 
sports gambling illegal that the problem will go away ­
but that a piece of the problem will go away." 
U.S. Senators Sam Brownback, R-Kan., and John McCain, R-Ariz., first introduced legislation in Congress a year ago targeting legal betting in Nevada. The N_CAA­backed bill stalled in committee, but they plan to remtro­duce it this year. 
Bruno's Pizza All-you-can-eat Buffet 
(Includes Drink) 
*Pizza *Pasta 
$5.99
*Salad *Other Italian Dishes *Parties Welcome 
Every Thursday at 5 
2610 Prairie Avenue 
288-3320 
'----------.-­
----..--------..--·----------________..,_,,___...__________________..._______________ 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 8, 2001 

Butler this year. But Macleod didn't get the
Coaches 
chance to stay and see if his pre­continued from page 20 diction would come true. In 
March 1999, he announced his The NCAA Tournament was their resignation, with Doherty coming goal, whether Doherty, Brey or in as his replacement. their grandma was in charge, and Doherty worked quickly to get they're about to pull of that feat. things done, from reviving the 
But Notre Dame's trip back to crowds that had lapsed during the top 25 didn't start when Brey Notre Dame's years watching the was hired. It began several years Tournament on TV to renovating ago beneath Macleod's guidance. the locker room. Enthused by his 
MacLeod, pushed to resign fol­passion for Notre Dame basket­lo\ving a 14-16 season in 1998-ball, fans jumped on the band­99, brought in five of the six play­wagon and bought tickets to Joyce ers logging major minutes for Center games en masse. Notre Dame this season, with The former Kansas assistant Oklahoma transfer Humphrey the coach fell short ofgoal No. 1 N exception. taking the Irish back to March 
"I think Coach MacLeod is the Madness. But he came close, with guy who was forgotten in all of Notre Dame advancing to the this," said Murphy, a Macleod finals of the NIT and finishing recruit who's exceeded every­with a 22-15 record. one's expectations and then some More importantly, he made as an All-American and two-time inroads into the future by helping Big East Player of the Year. "Of stock the Notre Dame roster with the six guys who play a lot, five of transfers like Humphrey and top­them were recruited by Coach recruits like Chris Thomas. He MacLeod and came here to play also played a role in convincing for Coach MacLeod." Murphy to stay. 
MacLeod faced an uphill battle Just as quickly as he came in, in winning over top recruits dur­Doherty was gone, though, leav­ing his early tenure at Notre ing to become the head coach at Dame when the 1990s began. At his alma mater North Carolina in that point, Notre Dame was one of July. Athletic director Kevin White just three independent Division I replaced Doherty with former men's basketball programs (along Duke assistant coach and with Sacramento State and Oral Delaware head coach Brey. Roberts). All the other schools Behind Brey, Notre Dame's clear­belonged to a conference, making ing the next it easier to schedule games, gain hurdle Ngetting back into the 

six as a dirty work player who gets the boardstelevision exposure, and pick up NCAA Tournament. 
and the floor burns.
Big East 
blue chip players. "He's the guy who got us back No team is a clear-cut favorite this year to win"I could see recruiting wise, that into the NCAA Tournament," Brey the title, although Notre Dame and Boston College 

continued from page 20
we were never going to be able to said ofMurphy. "He's the guy 

captured their respective divisional champi­
recruit as independents," who put us back on the college The Irish employ a six-man roster, but winning onships.

Macleod said this week. basketball radar screen" the Big East Tournament means winning three "It's going to be a heck of a tournament,"MacLeod pushed for Notre Back in-the top 25 and in a times in three consecutive nights, while the NCAA Murphy said. 

Dame's entrance into a confer­powerhouse conference, it's also 

Tourney is better spaced out. The Big East Tourney is full of parity this year, ence throughout his time at Notre an appealing choice for top high But the Irish should be deep and fresh enough with any team capable of making a run. Syracuse.
Dame, and the University finally school players once more. 

to beat the Panthers tonight, following a first­Seton Hall and Villanova all joined Pittsburgh inrelented in 1995. Until that time, "I think it's a wise choice for a round berth Wednesday. While Pittsburgh played making it out of the first round. Both Syracuseeven getting into the living rooms lot of the blue chip top-25 players a close opening round game, Notre Dame and Seton Hall knocked off Notre Dame this sea­of top high school prospects to look at Notre Dame," Murphy watched their upcoming opponents' game over son (the Hall doing so twice), while Notre Dame 
was a daunting task. said. 

dinner at ESPNZone in Times Square, following did not face cross-divisional rival Villanova. 
"Basketball players didn't want Who's responsible for bringing an early afternoon practice at John Jay College. Second round matchups for the day include to go to a school that was not aflU­Notre Dame basketball back to Notre Dame boasts a two-time Big East Player Boston College and NCAA Tournament hopefuliated with a conference," the top? That's too much acclaim 

of the Year in Murphy, who led the league in Villanova, Seton Hall and Georgetown, and
MacLeod said. "You want to go to to give to any one person, but it scoring this season with 22.6 points per game, as Syracuse against Providence. 

a Big Ten school, an ACC school doesn't matter. As the Irish pre­well as being one of the top rebounders. Next in Should Notre Dame win, the Irish will advance or a Big East school. We were just pare for their first NCAA line is transfer power forward Ryan Humphrey, a to the semifinals for the first time against the win­banging our heads against a brick Tournament run since 1990, third-team All-Big East selection after averaging ner of the Providence-Syracuse game. Last year's

wall." they're climbing back up the col­15 points and nine boards per game this year. first•round win over Rutgers marked the firstEven before Notre Dame joined lege basketball ladder. 

Ingelsby, a senior captain, tops the conference time Notre Dame had won a Big Eastthe Big East, MacLeod got one in assist-to-turnover ratio, with Matt Carroll and Tournament game since joining the conference inlucky break when Pat Garrity The views expressed in this col­
David Graves both boasting sharp shooting 1995-96.
signed to play for the Irish. umn are those ofthe author and records from outside and Carroll also a strong Can they make it one more? The Irish will see

Garrity, a 1998 graduate who not necessarily those ofThe 

assist man. Harold Swanagan rounds out the core tonight.
earned All-American honors and Observer. played his way into the NBA, helped recruiting by getting Notre Dame basketball in the headlines. 
With Garrity on board and Notre Dame now a member ofthe Big East, Macleod was able to convince the current crop of Irish players to sign on. 
He brought in Ingelsby, the Pennsylvania player of the year in 1996-97. in part because of Notre Dame's trips back to the East Coast to play. 
"I get to play back home on the East Coast and play against top competition in the country," 

! Ingelsby said. "I took that as a challenge to go out and prove that I could play here and play at this level." 
A year later. Macleod brought in Murphy from New Jersey and 

f 
Kentucky All-State players Graves 
and Swanagan. 
"I put I can't tell you how many long, hard days into rebuilding that program," MacLeod said. "My projection, when we put all those kids together. was by the time they were sophomores, we'd be in the top 50. By the time they got to be juniors, we'd be in the top 25. We'd have three NCAA teams with them." 
In his final recruiting class. he picked up two-time Pennsylvania state player of the year Matt Carroll and Ohio's Mike Monserez, who transferred to 




. ----~ : . ' . . . ,, " ·. . . : . . . 
. -. . -: . -, . . ' ' ' ' 
Thursday, March 8, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE •
WHATELY 


Fox TROT 
CLICK 
CLICIC CLll:lc:' l:LIC!C CLtClc:' CLICIC C:UClc:' CLtCIC 1:LICIC CUClc:' C:LICIC CUC\i: CL1CIC CLIClc:' CLICIC CLIClc:' CLICIC CL!Cli: CLICIC CLICIC CLICIC CLICIC ( r 

CL1Cli: 
C:LICIC CLICI( CLICIC CLIC\i: CLICIC CLIC\i: CI.ICIC CLIC\i: C:LICIC CL1CI( 
CLICIC .__i ,=. 
BILL AMEND 
I TOLD YOU lT 
WAS PoSSIBLE EXCUSE I To WATCH 80TH ME i "SURVIVOR" AMD WHILE 
$ u ..
I FRIENDS. I Go
,o..,) 
HAVE A. 
~:}J SEIZURE. 
\ 


CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  28 Winglike  41 Danny's  
1 Is in another  appendages  allowance?  
form?  29 Make doilies  49 "Do  _  Diddy  
4 Rodin sculpture at the Met 8 Best and others 13 Accident scene arrival: Abbr. 14 Hindi relative 15 Brewers' needs 17 See 32-Across  30 Shaky problem 31 Court target 32 With 17-Across, Dijon's department 33 Decongestant, maybe 36 Mountain  Oiddy" (1964 hit) 50 Justice Fortas 51 Fast, informally 53 Rabbitlike rodent 55 Fictional terrier 56 Prefix with athlete 57 Gist  
18 Morse T's  37 Saharan sights  58 Took too much,  
19 Parisian palace 20 Method of plant propagation  38 Like of sunshine 39 Aviv1an  briefly 59 Cabinet dept. 60 Boxer's threat  
22_ Simbel,  40 Three Stooges  61 "White  
Egypt  prop  Christmas"  
23 Cartesian  41 "The One I  dancer _-Ellen  
conclusion 24 Apiary?  Love" singers 42 Golfer  62 Ambient music pioneer  
26 Mr., in Mysore 27 Saved on supper, perhaps  Ballesteros 43 Ax 46 Ninny  DOWN 1 Makes one 2 It forms food  
vacuoles  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  3 It may be curbed  
4 Nerve  Puzzle by Robert H. Wolfe  
5 Chinese parade features 6 Leigh Hunt's "Abou Ben  16 Arabs, e.g. 21 Time to honor Sandra?  39 Charge for an afternoon social? 40 Cornrow creator  45 Like some ball games 48_1sland  
7 Some fraternity chapters 8 Superman's revealing piercer?  22 Bushed 25 One out? 32 Pool ball hitter? 33 Malaysian state  42 Ice lander? 44 "Roman Elegies" author  52 Prank 54 "_ voce poco ta· (Rossini aria) 55 Mazel  
9 Very fine 1oFormal refusal 11 Help with, as a project 12 Zinc (ointment  34 Harbingers 35 It's blown on Yorn Kippur 36 "If I Were a Rich Man" singer  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute}. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
ingredient)  37 Tab, e.g.  years: 1-888•7-ACROSS.  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
TIIURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON . VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): THIS DAY: Freddie Prinze Jr., Your anger may lead you in the James Van Der Beek, Lynn Red­wrong direction. Don't jump to grave, Mavor Moore, Camryn conclusions. Think twice before Manheim, Cyd Charisse you retaliate. You are unlikely to 
Happy Birthday: If you want get along with co-workers or to make changes, this is the year. impress your boss today. 00 Start to make your moves. This LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Ask can be a pivotal period if you are for favors, as long as you don't true to yourself. Re-evaluate your require help with legal matters. desires and do whatever is neces­Take time to connect with peo­sary to capture your dreams. Be ple who will appreciate your tal­prepared to go the distance or ents. Look into making some you will be unhappy with your extra cash. Flirting will bother performance. Your numbers: 13, your mate. 000 19, 26, 31, 35, 44 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your lover will cost you financial­You will do well in speculative ly if you allow it. You will have to money matters. Spend some time learn to say no if you don't want with cltildren and don't forget to to end up broke and alone. You keep in shape. You have the ener­are losing respect by giving in all gy to juggle a wide variety of theti.me.0000 activities. 000 SAGrrrARIUS (N<N 22-Dec. 21): 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You just can't keep your mind on Avoid romantic involvement your work. You should be look­with co-workers and look else­ing into foreign cultures or where for love. Redecorating will philosophies tnat can broaden cost more than you want to your horizons about life, love and spend. Emotional uncertainties happiness. 00 will make communication with CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): your spouse difficult. 000 You can expect to have problems 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): with your lover. Do not allow Projects that involve telemarket­him or her to take advantage of ing or mail order should be of you during your confusion about interest to you. Look into the pos­the relationship. Ask point-blank sibilities of starting your own where you stand. 000 small business. A relative may AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): back your idea. 0000 Romantic opportunities will be 
..
CANCER (June 21-July 22): plentiful. However, you must Don't let older relatives or siblings be careful you don't pick some­put demands on you. Do what you one who is more interested can, but don't feel guilty if you in what you have than who you can't do it all. Your need to collect are. 000 things will cause grief. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 2.2): It's a good time to make career Romantic encounters will devel­changes. Interviews will go well. op through social events or fit­Your warmth and genuine char­ness programs. You will make acter will win you points. You profits through investments. Pop­can use your unusual ideas to ularity will be yours if you place show your versatility. 000 yourself in the limelight. 000 
Birthday Baby: You have two sides: One is sensitive and warm, and the other aloof and secretive. You can be outgoing and fun, but sometimes you prefer to be quiet and demure. You keep others guess­ing and attract attention because of your mysterious ways. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
• 



Choking the Pacers 
Latrell Sprewell drained 26 points for New York in a win over Indianapolis. 
page 16 
Thursday, March 8, 2001 
Irish resurrection continues against Pitt 
NEW YORK 
Notre Dame men's basketball, a powerhouse in the 1970s and 1980s, is wiping the sleep from its eyes after a dormant decade in which it never advanced to the NCAA Tournament. 
\Vhile Matt Doherty often receives credit for waking up the echoes and first-year Irish coach Mike Brey earns props for get­ting the job done this year, an often overlooked key to the resurgence is John Macleod, who coached the Irish through the lean years. 
All three men, along with the current players, deserve to share recogni­tion for the programOs resurgence. 
This year's Irish squad (19-7, 11-5 Big East} is poised to return to the NCAA Tournament for the first time since 1990. It won the Big East West Division title, Notre Dame's first league champi­onship in menas basketball since joining the • Conference in 1995. The Irish begin Big East Tournament play today, but already have a hid to March Madness virtually wrapped up, with the field of 64 to be announced Sunday. 
"We've solidly put ourselves into a very good seed in both ofthese tournaments coming in," Brey said earlier this week. "We're excited about playing for a championship in New York." 
For the first time, Notre Dame seems a viable candidate to win the league championship. It fin­ished three games above .500 in league play, where Notre Dame had never posted a winning record. 
As the third coach in three years, Brey did a masterful job ofwinning over the current players and playing to their strengths. 
He avoided the letdown teams often face follow­ing a change at the helm by keeping his team confident. 
Captains Troy Murphy and Martin Ingelsby, along with the other core players for Notre Dame in David Graves, Harold Swanagan, Ryan Humphrey and Matt Carroll, stayed on task. They wanted to end Notre Dame's post.season drought. 

see COACHES/pagel8 


By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associare Spores Editor 
NEW YORK It's the moment of truth for the Notre Dame men's basketball team. 
Can they get it done when it matters? The Irish open the post-season tonight with a Big East Tournament quarterfinals matchup against the Pittsburgh Panthers, who knocked off the Miami Hurricanes Wednesday 78-69. with the chance to find out. 
"I don't think we've played our best game to date yet where everybody's 
clicking on all cylinders," Irish point guard Martin lngelsby said. 'The true test is going to be if we can do that at crunch time at the Big East Tournament and the NCAA Tournament." 
Pittsburgh (16-12, 7-9· Big East) led through­out its opening round game with Miami, burst­ing to an 8-1 lead and holding a 37-26 edge at halftime after making 14 of 15 first-half free throw attempts. The victory was Pittsburgh's first in the Big East Tournament since knock­ing off Connecticut in the first round in 1997. 
The Hurricanes pulled to within two in the 
second half, but the Panthers put the game 
away with a fast-break layup by Donatas 
Zavackas. an Isaac Hawkins rebound and a 
Brandin Knight bucket. Both Zavackas and 
Knight scored 16 for the Panthers, while 
Ricardo Greer led Pittsburgh with 27 points. 
Notre Dame (19-8, 11-5) has defeated 
Pittsburgh twice this season, by scores of 7 4-58 
and 75-67. That doesn't necessarily bode well 
for the Irish. 
"It's tough to beat a team three times in one 
year." All-American Irish forward Troy 
Murphy said. 
Tough, but not unheard of. Miami did it to 
Notre Dame a season ago. 
To make some noise in this week's tourney, 
the Irish must do more than just hold off the 
Panthers, which they are expected to do. They 
need to keep on winning, at least until they 
earn a first•ever berth in the finals, despite a 
short bench. 
Notre Dame's biggest weakness is one that 
could hurt it more in the Big East Tournament 
than the upcoming NCAA Tournament: depth. 
see BIG EAST/page18 

MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish look to maul Wolverines, continue 5 match win streak 
Bend after losing five in a to California, but coming back Also key for the Irish will be improved a lot, but when it 
comes down to it he can be a
By KATIE HUGHES row, most recently to indoors is a switch," said 14-th ranked doubles team'· Taborga and Aaron Talarico. bit awkward," said Laflin.
Laflin.
Sports Writer Clemson. 

Michigan's Henry Beam, who Notre Dame has won 10 of"They're a good team, and it In their last match against 
the last 12 matches against
was a tough match last year, Purdue. the Irish lost all three will face Casey Smith, is
Confidence will be to their 

Michigan, and the teams
but we're pumped this year,' doubles matches, but won four ranked 78th in singles compe­
advantage as the Irish come should be closely matched.

said junior Andrew Laflin. out of six singles to take the tition the most recent
into today's match against the 

lntercollegiate Tennis Michigan is ranked 35th,
"Being at home we definitely win. Junior Javier ToborgaMichigan Wolverines ready to 

while Notre Dame is ranked
have the advantage. We're won in No. 2 singles, and will Association rankings. Beam
build on their five match win­

used to our own court." be key in singles competion and teammate Anthony 26th. 
ning streak. Jackson each have 16 wins "We're all psyched up, and
I The Irish, returning from against Michigan. Sophomore 
l 
Michigan beat Notre Dame 
Brian Farrell, Matt Daly and each this season, and Beam is we' re ready," said Laflin.
LaJolla, Calif., will have to
5-2 in their meeting last sea­"Michigan's gonna be a con­

again play indoors. Matthew Scott were also piv­trying to break the 20-win 
son, and holds the all-time 

tinuation of our winning
"We've been practicing otal players against Purdue in plateau.
advantage 39-20. The "Beam has definitely streak."

hard, and we had a good trip singles competition.
Wolverines come to South 

t 
Men's Lacrosse 
I' Big East Tournament 
at Rutgers
vs. Pittsburgh
•;;);.,:•.
SPORTS 

~ vs. MichiganFriday, 3 p.m. 
Today, 6:40 p.m. 
M) 
Saturday, 11 a.m.

ATA -· 
•·I Baseball 
vs. Michigan

' 
at Pacific
Today, 4 p.m. 
GLANCE ~ 

Saturday, 1 p.m. 

_________.....________________ 
_,, 

Anew generation 
The Observer looks at the recently­
completed Generations campaign, 
the biggest in Catholic university 
history. 

Thursday, March 8, 2001 A regular feature o/The Observer's News Department. 

Notre Dame concludes its massive Generations fundraising 
campaign, with $ 1. 06 billion in 
the bank 

By TIM LOGAN 
In Focus Editor 
On the top floor of Grace Hall, a simple sign greets visitors to Notre Dame's Office of Development. It reads "Generations Campaign Total: $1,061,097,581." 
That figure is the end of a decade­long journey. a sustained campaign of challenging self-evaluation and relentless self-promotion. It was arrived at through the work of hun­dreds and the generosity of thou­sands. And it represents the poten­tial to change Notre Dame forever. 
The journey began almost 10 years ago, in October, 1991, when University president Father Edward Malloy told the faculty that Notre Dame would embark on an unprece­dented study of itself -the Colloquy for the Year 2000 -to determine its goals and direction for the com­ing decade. In the months after that, committees were formed, forums were held, and debates and discussions lasted for hours as peo­ple from all parts of the Notre Dame c;ommunity hammered out what they felt that community really was, and where it should go. They stud­ied the University's mission, acade­mic life. student life, finances and athletics 
After 18 months, it was done, and Malloy compiled the research and made 43 specific recommendations to the Board of Trustees. These included everything from meeting the full financial need of students to increasing flexibility in staff benefits packages. 
The Trustees reviewed and approved the Colloquy in May 1993, and shortly thereafter they began planning ways to raise money need­ed to accomplish its objectives. University officials looked at the biggest priorities -financial aid, the libraries, 100 endowed profes­sorships and some building projects, among other things -and deter­mined they would cost upwards of $750 million. When final goals were established, fundraisers settled on a figure of $767 million. That would make this the largest fundraising campaign in Catholic university his­tory 
"\,Ve were concerned about whether we could do that," said Father William Beauchamp. who was executive vice president at the time. 
They didn't know, so they gave it a shot. 
Generations was launched in 
1994, but not many people knew 
about it. That's because the first 
five years of the campaign were a 
"quiet phase," according to Dan 
Reagan, executive director of 
see GENERATIONS/page 4 


Money from the Generations campaign will touch every corner of Notre Dame's campus, including buildings (below). Thousands of alumni and parents wrote checks for the four-year campaign, which topped $1 billion. 
photos by 
TONYFLOYD& KEVINDALUM 



------------------~--_..,,.__________.._______________-==----"""lllll------'!'11!11---....--.;.-.-,-... .. 
...... -~ ,---·­
:;,,-.­

' 
(E .7i.:> 
page 2 
The Observer . IN FOCUS Thursday, March 8, 2001 
ONE PERSON'S VIEW 
Thanks for the 10-spot, Monk 

Generations has collected millions of dollars for financial aid at Notre Dame. This is a wonderful thing. But has the Notre Dame administration ever considered that part of the reason there is such a need for financial aid 
at Notre Dame is because tuition is so high? 
Wednesday, University President Father Edward Malloy announced that tuition would increase 4.9 percent next school year. This is the smallest percent increase in tuition since 1959. 


Why does Notre Dame Mike Connolly need to increase tuition? With millions of dollars rolling into the University, Editor in Chief why does Malloy need even more money? 
The 4.9 percent increase in tuition means that a Notre Dame education will cost $30,530. Last year, Notre Dame required $29.100 per year to attend. That's an increase of $1,430. 
In 1999-2000, tuition was $27,660. With a 5.2 percent hike in tuition, Notre Dame raised tuition $1,440. So that .3 percent drop in tuition increase amounted to $10 less in tuition increase. $10. Thanks Malloy. that will really save my parents a lot money. 
Good news Mom and Dad, Monk is screwing you over $10 less this year. 
The 2000 enrollment numbers have not been released but last year, there were 8,014 under­graduates at Notre Dame. Assuming that there are about the same number of students attending Notre Dame, that 4.9 percent tuition increase will mean $11,460,020 more for the University. · Eleven million dollars is a lot of money ... until you look at the endowment. 
Notre Dame's endowment is currently at $3.5 billion, according to the Wall Street Journal. Assuming that Notre Dame has a bunch of trained monkeys investing the endowment and can only earn 1 percent interest, Notre Dame is still earning $35 million a year in interest on the endowment. Since the Notre Dame business office is obviously more competent than a bunch of trained monkeys, it is probably getting more than a 1 percent return on the endowment. 
But let's just assume they can only earn $35 million a year, if Notre Dame applied that interest to eliminating the increase in tuition, that would still leave them with $23.5 million in interest alone. 
Twenty-three million in interest on the endow­ment without increasing tuition. 
I understand that the endowment should be used to help the future of the University, but this is ridiculous. Notre Dame costs more that $30,000. I am willing to bet that many staff mem­bers at Notre Dame do not earn $30,000 a year. If Notre Dame doesn't do something about the esca­lating tuition, there will be no future University for the endowment to help. No one will be able to afford to go here. 
Increasing financial aid is a noble pursuit, but why not eliminate the need for financial aid. The higher Notre Dame tuition climbs, the less afford­able Notre Dame becomes. The less affordable Notre Dame becomes, the more financial aid will be required. 
So freeze tuition. Use some of the interest on the endowment to keep tuition down. 
But for now, I guess my parents will be happy with the $10 they are "saving" this year. Maybe they can use that to pay for food, clothing, trans­portation and shelter. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
IN FOCUS STAFF 
Editor: Tim Logan 
Photography: Tony Floyd 
Lab Tech: Peter Richardson 
Graphics: Katie McKenna 

Slicing the Pie 
-Endowed Senior -UndergraduateProfessorships 
Scholarships
-Endowed Assistant -Int'l Study Professorships Programs-Faculty Space 
-Social Space 
nrestricte Libraries
$25m $37.7m 
Goal: $767 million 

Total Raised: $1.06 billion 
KATIE McKENNA/The Observer 
The next Generation: ND already looking ahead 
By TIM LOGAN 
In Focus Writer 
While The Generations Campaign may be over, it will not be long before Notre Dame starts preparing for its next big fundraising push. 
The University continues to raise money, through its annual fund and other donations, regardless of whether there is a specific campaign on or not. And in the next few years, Notre Dame will embark on another 
self-study, like the Colloquy for the Year 2000, to define its pri­orities for the coming decade, officials say. 
Every 10 years, The North Central Association of Colleges and Schools re-evaluates Notre Dame's accreditation. Traditionally, the University has con­ducted a major self-
study, such as the Colloquy, to help prepare for that. It is up for reaccredi­tation again in 2003-4, so there will likely be another study before then. 
A self-study can also be looked at as a plan for the future of the University, and the next one should be "bottom up." according to Father Tim Scully, University executive vice president. 
"It ought to be led by faculty and 

Talking about Generations 
"ft will clearly help us provide an opportunity more so than ever for students who have been admitted and have a need to come here. " 
Joseph Russo director of Financial Aid 
"{The next self-study} ought to be led by f acuity and students and their aspirations. It shouldn't be top down.,. 
Father Tim Scully executive vice president 

students and their aspirations," he said. "It shouldn't be top down." 
So, like it did in Colloquy. the University community will discuss pri­orities for Notre Dame in the 21st cen­tury. After hearing these discussions, University president Father Edward Malloy will draw up a report outlining priorities, and the Officers and Trustees will likely decide how to get the money to meet them. They will plan the next Generations. 
Scully predicted that Notre Dame would gear up for its next big 
solicit donations, trying to fund areas that fell a little short in Generations, and new priorities that have risen since 1993, like the Law School. and an engineering building. 
Campaigns bring focused attention, according to Dan Reagan, executive director of Development, but f undrais­ing does not stop when they do. 
"We're never still," Reagan said. 
"When you set out to raise $767 million. it's a pretty staggering thing. When you raise over $I billion. that·s a pretty amazing thing." 
Father Tim Scully executive vice president 
fundraising cam­paign in 24 to 36 months. That will lead into the "quiet phase" which begins any big fundraising push, and then the all-out cam­paign. 
But until that happens, the development office continues to 
"/ think it will make a tremendous impact. It will help attract the most outstanding faculty and students in the country, which enhances class­room learning.,, 
Mark Roche dean, College of Arts and Letters 
• 
Students unaware of 
campaign 
By ERIN LaRUFFA In Focus Writer 
While the Generations Campaign raised millions of dol­lars for everything from scholar­ships to new faculty to new build­ings, the people for whom the campaign was made -the stu­dents -know very little about what Generations was. 
For some, the most significant fact they know about Generations is that Notre Dame received a lot of money. 
'Tm happy that we're getting money," said freshman Sean Tackett, who admitted he was largely unfamiliar with the cam­paign. 
Another general consensus among many students is that the increased scholarship opportuni­ties thanks to Generations is a positive step. 
"I think these scholarships are a great idea because it helps people that can't normally be here, be here," said junior Matt Rosso. 
"A lot of people can't afford to come here but would really like to. Why not help them out?" said freshman Llz Malone. 
In fact, students ranked scholar­ships as one of the most signifi­cant uses of Generations funds. Sophomore E.J. Jones said that that is one area he would choose to raise money for were he con­ducting a similar campaign. 
Other uses, such as increasing faculty, also seemed like a natural use of the money, according to Jones. 
Students also supported adding certain buildings on campus. A specific improvement Rosso sug­gested was a new student center. 
"I think we need one," Rosso said. "Something for not just stu­dents now but also for alumni when they come back on football weekends." 
Sophomore Kelly Bush said she believes it is important for the University to spend money on pro­grams and projects instead of just adding to its endowment fund. 
"I think it could be put to more practical uses than endowment," said Bush, adding that she is glad Generations money will be put to other uses. 
One area students questioned spending money on was the $58 million renovation of the Main Building. 
"I guess it's cool, but I guess money could have been used for other things," Malone said of the Main Building restoration. She added that because she did not see the campus centerpiece before its renovation, it is difficult for her to judge how necessary it was. 

a as a a St S LJ
a 
a 1
SJ 5 

Thursday, March 8, 2001 The Observer . IN FOCUS 


Spreading the wealth 
Student aid is the biggest recipient of Generations dollars, but not the only one 

By LAURA ROMPF 
In Focus Wrirer 
State-of-the-art facilities. Smaller class sizes. More financial aid. New library col­lections. 
While money donated to the University often goes unnoticed by the student population, the $1.06 billion pledged during the recent Generations Campaign will impact the daily lives of students both now and in the future. 
"This campaign was called a campaign for Notre Dame stu­dents _and a lot of planning went 1n to make sure it is exactly that," said Richard W_ar:ner, 1irector of Campus Mm1stry. It will make a large difference in the education of Notre Dame students." 
The campaign outlined six different categories where greater funding is needed: stu­dents, faculty. libraries. col­leges and institutions, physical facilities and current opera­tions. 
The top priority was under­
graduate financial aid. More 
than $164 million was raised 
for scholar­
ships and, as 
"The Generations funding money will 

a result, the contribute to
University has will do great things for 
new librarybeen able to the library. " collections in a
dramatically 
range of sub•improve its 

jecl<;.
Jennifer Younger 

financial aid "Increasing
packages over director, University Libraries the number of
the last decade. 
"I never used to hear people talk about Notre Dame as a place where they got excep­tionally good financial aid," said Father Tim Scully, execu­tive vice president. "Now I hear sometimes we give them the best package. That is a mas­sive sea change, I think." 
There have been big changes in student aid, but that is hard• ly the only area in which Generations is changing the face of Notre Dame. 
The Library 
"The Generations funding 
will do great things for the 
library," said Jennifer 
Younger. director of University 
libraries. Younger said $8 mil­
lion will go to renovating the 
basement of the 14-f1oor tower 
and other funds will create 150 
new endowed collections. 
"The money from these 
endowments will go to enhance 
the library collections and 
impact technology. We will be 
able to offer new and innova­
tive library services," Younger 
said. "It will have a tremen­
dous positive impact on the 
ability of the library to provide 
information service to the cam­
pus." 
Some of the endowments will 
add library collections in glob­
al izati on, Irish studies, 
Mediaeval studies and critical 
technology, Younger said. 
"The most tangible benefit 
for students will be the 
improved quality of the library 
collection -the books on the 
shelves, the available tt1chnolo­
gy and the expanded electronic 
resources," Younger said. "It 
will positively change the 
design in a broad way the 
design of information ser­vices." 
The Law School 
The campaign's donations go beyond undergraduate educa­tion. One big beneficiary is Notre Dame Law School, which raised more than $33 million. 
"Our plan for the funds will mirror that of the University's overall campaign," said Glenn Rosswurm, director of Law School Advancement. "We will increase financial aid for student fellowships, improve the library and create chair professor fel­lowships." 
Rosswurm said nearly one­third of the Law School's fund will go to financial aid because the average debt for a Notre Dame law student is $62,000. 
"Generations will make legal education at Notre Dame more affordable for students who have always dreamed of coming to Notre Dame," he said. 
"To the extent we can alleviate 
the [tuition} burden. it will pre­
sent a real tangible benefit to our 
students." 
Rosswurm said the Campaign 
contributed $2.6 millbn to the 
· Kresge Law 
Library. That 
library collec­
tions enhances the library and is essential to be a top law school." Rosswurm said. 
But perhaps the most substan­tial benefit to the law school is the creation of professor fellow­ships, according to Hosswurm. For example, the world's leading natural law theorist, John Finnis, will spend one semester a year at Notre Dame. 
"The campaign created a chair position in the law school that attracted someone of his interna­tional status," Rosswurm said. "This is one of the largest bene­fits of the Generations Campaign within the Law School -to bring in world class professors." 
The College of Arts and Letters 
More than half of the credit 
hours earned each year by 
undergraduate students are 
taken in the College of Arts and 
Letters. Accordingly, many of the 
funds from Generations will ben­
efit that college. 
A number of chaired profes­
sors were added to Arts and 
Letters and the Endowments for 
Excellence will help with non­
salary funding, said Mark Roche. 
dean of the College of Arts and 
Letters. 
The financial aid benefits of the 
Generations campaign have 
already indirectly benefited the 
College, Roche said. 
"It has helped us attract the 
most outstanding students which 
has improved the intellectual 
atmosphere in the classroom," 
he said. 
Originally, Generations was 
supposed to create a doctoral 
program for the College, but 
Roche said a need for space 
arose. 
weekends. 

"Students can come to study. hang out or whatever. Our retreat teams can meet there ... We have office space on the first floor where our retreats will be centered," Warner said. "It's amazing what they have given 
us." 

The building includes a new chapel, called Notre Dame 
Warner said Campus Ministry will benefit in other ways from Generations. 
"The campaign provided sup­port for our catechist program, where we send students out to teach CCD classes," he said. "It will also support our choirs and has added renovations to the Basilica." 
Odds and Ends 

Besides the library, Law School, College of Arts and Letter and Campus Ministry, the Generations Campaign will also benefit students in other areas. 
ij 
Generations helped the Snite Museum add several new collec­tions, said museum director 
...
Chuck Loving. The John D. Reilly collection provides the museum with old master drawings, the Lake family donated a major col­lection of pre-Columbian objects and the Ashbaugh family provid­ed funding for an educational center within the museum. 
"The new Theology and Philosophy building was not part of the original Generations Campaign, but as money was raised, new priorities arose," Roche said. "The College was given money for the new building instead of a new doctoral pro­gram." 
Roche said the campaign's funding will pay for more profes­sors. which in turn will reduce class size and improve overall education. 
"I think it will make a tremen~ dous impact," he said. "It will help attract the most outstanding faculty and students in the coun­try, which enhances classroom learning." 
Campus Ministry 
On March 19, students will see 
a large benefit from the 
Generations Campaign: the new 
Coleman Morse Center, located 
between Badin Hall and Walsh 
Hall. It \-\ill house the First Year 
of Studies, athletic advising, and 
Campus Ministry. 
"The new building will be 
absolutely superb," Warner said. 
"For the first time, we will all be 
in the same place -all our ser­
vices will be in the same area." 
Warner said the building will 
include a CSC satellite office, 
social space that will remain 
open almost 24 hours and food 
services that will be open on the 
They also

Our Mother, "It will help attract the 
helped create

which was most outstanding faculty 
an endowment
donated by 

and students in the for education­
Tom Coleman, 

who also gave country, which enhances al activities 
within the cen­

money to reno­classroom learning.,. ter.
vate the 
Generations
Basilica. 
funding will

Besides the Mark Roche 
help provide

new building, dean, College of Arts and Letters 
chemical 

abuse counsel­ing. enhance fine and performing arts at the University, and helped pay for the $58 million Main Building renovation. 
Overall, Generations beat all expectations, topping its original goal by nearly $300,000. 
"Generations not only helped Campus Ministry, but increased financial aid to students. will improve the library, added chaired faculty members and created much needed space," Warner said. "It will make a large difference in the overall education of Notre Dame stu­dents." 

Generations 
continued from page I 
Development. That is the part of any major fundraising campaign when the fundraisers approach large potential donors individually, hoping for a big gift. They build up many big gifts before announcing the campaign pub­licly, to build up momentum. 
"It assures a good wind behind our 
"This University was not
back," Reagan said. couple wound up 
"The likelihood of the same University it donating, Beauchamp success is also very was 10 years ago.,, said. good that way. That "There's no other quiet phase is very school in the country important." Father William Beauchamp with a program like 
Silence brought suc­executive vice president emeritus that that is that suc­
cess. 
By May, 1997, when the campaign was publicly launched, more than $470 million had been raised, and the benefits were already being seen in buildings sprouting up on campus. The Bond Hall renova­tions, West Quad residence halls and the Main Building renovation were all early beneficiaries of Generations funds. Despite these high-visibility construction projects, only 21 percent of the money raised was directed for bricks and mortar. 
"It appears like you're emphasizing buildings," Beauchamp said, but, in fact, those bigger donations are tar­geted early, and tend to come through first. Thus, buildings are built before scholarships are announced and new faculty hired. 
After the campaign was formally kicked off, with a campus ceremony that was beamed via satellite to more than 160 local alumni clubs, momen­tum grew. Alumni and parents were solicited, and responded well. Lots of midsize donations, in the $1 to $5 mil­lion range. were made, and the pot grew. 
"The real base of our giving is folks who feel passionately about this place." said Father Tim Scully, execu­tive vice president. 
Approximately 50 major donors were brought on "fly-ins," according to Beauchamp. These weekends included campus tours, a dinner at the top of the library. presentations from University officers and Mass with Malloy at the Log Chapel. The purpose was to show these potential benefac­tors Notre Dame, and to convince them to give money. They worked. Every 
cessful." he said. 
The pot continued to grow, and in July. 1999, a little more than two years after it kicked off, Generations topped its goal of $767 million. It was a big success, in fact the most successful campaign in Catholic university history. But 

University officials expected they would need to land three gifts in the 
A Long Road 

$35 million range, according to 
' 

Beauchamp. They only got one, but a plethora of donations in the $1 to $5 Oct. million range made a big difference. A 
1991

big part of the campaign's success came from its goals, Beauchamp said. 
"Basically. it was a campaign driven for programs, for people," he said. "It was very successful in that regard." May'
By the time the dust cleared, Notre Dame had surpassed the $1 billion 1993 mark. That was a major accomplish­ment. There are only 17 other schools which have reached that milestone, and only one other, Princeton, without a medical school has done it. 
"When you set out to raise $767 mil­1993 lion, it's a pretty staggering thing," Scully said. "When you raise over $1 billion, that's a pretty amazing thing." 
$1,061,097,581 is a lot of money. How that money is spent says a lot about the organization that is spend­ing it. By and large. the University 1994 comm unity supports the way the money was allocated, and the process 
by which that alloca­
tion was determined. 
Generations was "The real base ofour ..Almost everything May 
scheduled to run giving is folks who feel in here came out of 1997through the year the Colloquy and con­
passionately about this 

2000, so University sequently is a result officials did not stop place." of student involve­it. There were specific ment," said student areas -undergradu­body president Brian Aug.
Father Tim Scully 

ate scholarships, O'Donoghue.
executive vice president 1999
graduate programs, a It is hard to argue 
science teaching facil­ity -which were still underfunded; new projects, such as the philosophy/theology building, also emerged. 
So the fundraising continued. Parents and alumni donations piled up, and that helped the total figure grow. So did major donations, like the $35 million gift to the College of Business by Tom and Kathy Mendoza. That was the largest donation of the campaign. 



with $164 million for undergraduate aid. 
That money, and the money for libraries, faculty. buildings and cen­July ters, will mean big changes for Notre Dame as it enters the 21st century. 2000 The road to $1.06 billion was a long one; and it has had a huge impact. The benefits are already visible. 
"The University is not the same Jan. 1 University it was 10 years ago," 
2001
Beauchamp said. Wait another 10 years. 

Father Malloy announces Colloqu for Year 2000 will begin 
Colloquy is completed and published 

University officers and Trustees identify campaign goals. 
"Quiet Phase" of Generations Campaign begins. 
Generations launched publicly, with $470 million 
Generations surpasses initial $767 million goal 
Generations tops $1 billion 
mark 
Generations Campaign ends 
at $1.06 billion 

KATIE McKENNNThe Obseiver 
EXPLORING CAMPUS ISSUES 








