
Saint Mary's features Celtic music
SUNNY 
Monday 

Saint Mary's kicks off its annual Shaheen Discovery series with the 
HIGH 76° 
flavors of Celtic music, featuring Kennedy's Kitchen. 

SEPTEMBER 10, 

news . page 14
LOW 55° 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 10 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Notre Dame remains in top 20 
By JASON McFARLEY  tion keeps Notre Dame in its top-20 spot among national  "But our stance really hasn't changed  Prior to the list's publishing each year,  pare itself to other schools in specific categories.  
News Editor  universities. Princeton University placed  over the years as far  "... ifthere is going to be a  Notre Dame officials vol­ Notre Dame's best ratings came in the graduation rate  
For the third consecutive year, Notre Dame ranked 19th in U.S. News & World Report's annual listing of the nation's  first on the list for the second straight year. "We believe that if there is going to be a list of the top  as rankings are con­cerned," Moore said,  list ofthe top colleges in America, we should be in that list. ,,  untarily sub­mit statisti­cal data about the  and alumni giving categories, achieving fourth-place distinc­tion in both. The school was 14th in selectivity and 16th in  
top schools.  colleges in America, we should  referring to  Dennis Moore  school  to  faculty resources.  
In the Sept. 17 edition of the magazine released to news­ be on that list," Dennis Moore, Notre Dame director of public  the slim use t . h e  director of public relations  U.S. News. a practice  And despite a hugely lucra­tive end this year to the $1 bil­ 
stands  today,  the  "2002  relations and information, said  University  Moore said  
America's Best Colleges" sec- Sunday.  makes of the annual report.  allows the University to com- see RANKING/page 4  

Norton/Moscona plans year's activity 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
After assuming their posi­tions at the middle of last semester, student body presi­dent Brooke Norton and vice president Brian Moscona said they are ready to put their plans for the Notre Dame community into action. 
"We got things together rather quickly," said Jonathan Jorissen, Norton and Moscona's chief of staff. "It was a natural progression this semester." 
According to Norton, the office of the student body president has four goals for the year: to increase campus unity, to improve communica­tion with the student body, to develop the ideal servant leadership within the office of the president, and finally, to increase collaboration among different groups within the Student Union. 
"We think all these things go hand in hand," Moscona said. When they ran for elec­tion last March, he added, everything on their platform related to these four goals. Now that they are in office, pursuing these objectives, according to Norton, will "make Notre Dame a better place and help us reach the students." 
In relation to their first goal, Norton, Moscona and Jorissen said they believe student gov­ernment can play a role in increasing campus unity by providing opportunities for students to learn about other cultures. 
"You can't force people to do things, but you can act as an initiator," Jorissen said. 
The office of the president plans to rely on its diversity division, one of its several specialized divisions. The 
diversity division, they 
explained, is planning several 
events, including discussion 
groups in dorms and a multi­
cultural fair. 
Although Norton said she does not believe Notre Dame lacks unity, she added that she hopes her office can foster an even greater "sense of inclusiveness here on cam­pus." 
"We're already a very uni~ fied student body," said Norton. "But there is always room for improvement." 
The multicultural fair, scheduled for November, will feature ethnic student groups from campus. Jorissen said he hopes that incorporating a variety of cultural groups into the fair will encourage all stu~ dents to attend the event. 
"I think that when people see an ad for a multicultural event. they think it's just for people of that group," Jorissen said. "The multicul­tural fair will help address that." 
Groups will serve ethnic food and distribute education­al information on their cul­tures. After the fair, there will be a salsa dance. 
"That's going to be fun," Moscona said. 
Another diversity-related event is also in the works for the spring, although plans have not been finalized yet. 
When it comes to their sec­ond goal, Norton, Moscona and their staff have developed several initiatives that they believe will allow them to increase communication between their office and the student body. 
"We're trying to reach out to students," said Norton. She added that her office wants students to share their ideas for what student government 
see PLAN/page 4 

RED SEA CRASHES DOWN ON IRISH 

PETER RICHERDSON/The Observer 

Demoine Adams (98), Chris Kelsay (57) and Mark Vedral (9) surround Irish quarterback Carlyle Holiday in the third quarter of Nebraska's 27-10 victory. Holiday replaced starter Matt Lovecchio in the second quarter and led the Irish on a 64-yard field goal drive. For complete coverage of Notre Dame's season opening loss, see the Irish Insider. 
ND prof to advise Bush 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 

A Notre Dame professor wide­ly regarded as a top Latino the­ologian is taking his message from the classroom to the White House. 
Father Virgilio Elizondo, a vis­iting professor of theology and Latino studies will travel to \,Vashington today for a Tuesday meeting where he's expected to counsel President Bush on issues facing the U.S. Latino population. 
At the president's invitation. Elizondo will meet Bush and several Hispanic Catholic bish­ops Tuesday. according to Father Dan Groody, Elizondo's colleague in the University's theology department and Institute for Latino Studies. 
The meeting follows Bush's conference last week with Mexican President Vincente 
Fox. 
"He's been chosen as one of the leading Latino theologians to meet with the president and join these bishops to talk about certain issues that Hispanics deal with today," Groody said Sunday. 
In January, Time magazine recognized Elizondo as a spiri­tual innovator in its series "Time 100: The Next Wave." 
Elizondo earned the distinction for his attempts to unite the Mexican-American community in his native San Antonio. 
As recently as last spring, Elizondo commuted weekly between the University and San Antonio. 
Elizondo will be an important voice in Washington as well. Groody said. 
"It's not just an important event for him; it should be an important event for the University since he is represent­ing Notre Dame as well," Groody said. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu 

Monday, September 10, 2001

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Your excuse? 
I live in the Snowbird State. A place where old people and Buicks flourish, and a place where people cautiously drive five miles under the speed limit due to the camper they are towing. 
So, when I ventured out onto South Bend's Cleveland Road yesterday, I 
was shocked to see a Malibu weave through traf­fic and zoom by me. While I continued to drive, my brother, who was in the passenger seat added, "He wasn't wearing his seat­belt." 
We both looked at each 

other, and continued to 
Kelly Hager 
drive in silence. 
In high school, I lost two close friends in an automo­bile accident. There was no Copy Editor alcohol involved, just three students and three unused seatbelts. Two days before graduation, the senior class lost its class vice president and secretary. Their names remained in the program, yet their seats were vacant at graduation. Tearful families accepted the diplo­mas which their son and daughter had rightfully earned. Students, faculty and parents united for the funerals and celebrated their lives. But, even as people got into their cars following the ser­vices, many neglected to remember something as they drove away: their seatbelt. 
It seems like every year our campuses unite together to celebrate the lives of students who have passed away. In a place where life is respected and fought for, it amazes me that only half of students wear their seatbelts. I don't understand how people who have been motivat­ed to march against abortion or walk for cancer can risk their own life by not wearing their seat­belts. I have lost many people in my life to things that are beyond human control. People that have been taken away too soon for things which no one could have prevented. That's why I feel so passionately about this issue. 
One in three people will be involved in a seri­ous car accident during their lifetime. One in a hundred will be killed. Llfe is precious. Why take the chance? 
I always ask this question when I notice some­one has failed to buckle his or her belt. Their reasons are vast and the excuses are pitiful. Many claim to "just forget." How can you "just forget?" Since the first car ride home from the hospital as a newborn, your parents insured your child's safety by strapping you in. As a child, they enforced the rules and made you buckle up. All your life your parents have instilled values meant to protect and keep your safe. Why do you decide to break the habit and not wear your seatbelt now? Is this an attempt at rebellion? Or is it the thrill? Llke riding your bike without your hands? The thrill of finally being able to not do what your parents want you to do? Why are we, members of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community, as leaders setting this example? By many people we are emulated, and considered the best of the best. We are human, we are loved. But we must remember, we are not invincible. 
Whether it is a quick trip down 31 to pick up some food, a midnight Meijer run, or simply moving your car from the loading dock to D6, put your seatbelt on. If rebellion is your motive, dye your hair blue or sleep through a class. 
Stacy and John would have graduated from college this year. Remember friends lost, remember friends of the present, remember your family. Remember to wear your seat belt. Please. The world would not be the same with­out you. 
Contact Kelly Hager at KHager@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for che highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation pcriod5. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All rcproduetion rights are reserved. 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday Tuesday 
. Seminar: "Bosch . Lecture: "God and 
Management Development Ceasar: Church and Public Seminar," all day, McKenna Llfe," Shirley Williams, 4 Hall 
p.m., Hesburgh Auditorium 
. Conference: "Ungaretti 

. Film: "Taste of Cherry," 
and Harris Placement 7 p.m., Montgomery 

Presentation," 5:30 p.m., 

Theatre, LaFortune 
McKenna Hall 
Wednesday 
. 
Lecture: "American Foreign Policy Challenges," Lee Hamilton, former U.S. Congressman, 7 p.m., C-100 Hesburgh Center 

. 
Event: Senior Seminar in English Literature, 6 p.m.. Stapleton Lounge 


Thursday 
. 
Film: "El diablo nunca duerme -The Devil Never Sleeps," 7 p.m., Room 141, DeBartolo 

. 
Film: "Lonestar," 


4:30 p.m .. Debartolo 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


BEYOND CAMPUS 

BYU student back in school after Real World 
PROVO big part of my life," she said. 
Julie Stoffer is back in Provo, Utah, Stoffer said she has no awkward and she's headed for the big screen. "/ was on camera when all the feelings about being back in Utah. The former Brigham Young controversy was going on, I "I love being here. I was on camera University student, widely known for when all the controversy was going
found out about being kicked 
her role on MTV's "The Real World," on. I found out about being kicked out 
out ofschool from a reporter. " 
is making a cameo appearance in of school from a reporter," she said. "Singles Ward," a comedy about dat­Still, Stoffer said she has no regrets. ing and single life in The Church of Julie Stoffer "I would do it all over again, ten­Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. fold. I had such a fun experience. I
Real Wortd

The film's producer, David Hunter, don't love the way the show was edit­said they chose Stoffer because "she ed, but I have no control over that,"
film, trying to seduce the film's lead­
was a person who stuck out in she said. 
ing single man.
Mormons' minds." However, some BYU students said 
Since "The Real World," Stoffer has
"I think people will be interested they think it's in poor ta-ste for Stoffer 
been living in Huntington Beach,
because it's her first time back in to receive more acclaim. "I don't real­
Calif. She said she doesn't think she's 
Utah, and she got kicked out of BYU ly see there being a need to reward 
a celebrity but does get the occasional 
and we just thought, you know, it'll her. I think she behaved very poorly.
"there goes the Mormon Chick." 
be interesting to have her on board, I'm absolutely embarrassed," said 
"I tried not to make my religion a
see what she does," Hunter said. senior Sarah Stratford from 
real critical part of the show. But how 
Stoffer plays a temptress in the Trumbull, Conn. 
could it not be? I'm Mormon, it's a 
JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY 

Death in study halts research 
The Johns Hopkins University Institutions made national news this summer following the death of Ellen Roche, a lab technician who was taking an experimental drug as part of a Hopkins-sponsored asthma study. The incident prompted the federal government to temporari­ly revoke funding for all studies with human partici­pants. Roche became sick after inhaling hexamethonium as part of a study geared towards understanding how healthy lungs protect against asthma attacks. The princi­pal investigator for the study was Dr. Alkis Togias, M.D. After receiving medical treatment from Hopkins, Roche died. The School of Medicine immediately initiated an investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death, releasing a report. The report claimed that Roche's death was not directly attributable to hexam­ethonium, suggesting instead that the cause of death was "likely to remain uncertain." The report concluded that the study's protocol was "not in compliance with School of Medicine policies for requiring review of amendments to a research protocol." 
PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY 

Law schools see enrollment rise 
Many people nationwide have lost their jobs during the past few years because of a down-swinging, post dot-com economy. Fear of being laid off, fired or not being hired at all has prompted more graduating students to attend law school to specialize their degrees, thus increasing their chances of gaining employment, a recent Kaplan survey said. Pennsylvania State University's Dickinson School of Law is bracing for this surge...Registrations for the October LSAT (Law School Admission Test) are well ahead of last year's pace and my somewhat murky crystal ball suggests that we should end up with an increase somewhere between 11 and 17 percent," said Barbara Guillaume, director of admissions at Dickinson School of Law. "Students might be experiencing a reduction in opportunities presented to them after graduation when the market goes into a downturn." According to a survey by the Law School Admission Council, about 24,000 people took the LSAT in June, an 18.6 percent increase nationally from the previous year. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 10.
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day.
AccuWealher 11 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 



Tuesd Wedne day Thursd y Friday) ....... e e e 
e 2001 Accuweather, Inc. cow WARM STATIONARY 
,.,....,,.: 
i:.v.

® © D Q, , D D LJ. B .,, 
High Low Show•r• Rain T-•torm• Flurries Snow le• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta 81 62 Las Vegas 88 74 Portland 74 64 Baltimore 78 60 Memphis 85 72 Sacramento 92 68 Boston 71 60 Milwaukee 79 66 St. Louis 89 72

q_~_~G.QQ (f ~ c:) 

ShOwers T-slorms Rain Ai:rries S~~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 82 72 New Yori( 76 61 Tampa 89 76 Via Auoci•ted Pros Grapt,aN<>I Houston 84 67 Philadelphia 81 63 Washington DC 82 75 
Monday, September 10, 2001 page 3 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Professor buzzes in with new findings 
By KRISTIN YEMM  who come back and tell oth­ers where the feeding site  This discrepancy results from the bees' use of optic  "I got calls from radio sta­tions and from the Discovery  "Lifting their bodies to the top of the library required  
News Writer  is," said Esch. "The idea [of  flow  - the environment that  Channel, which is interested  the bees to  use  more  energy  
the research] is to find  out  moves  over the eyes - as a  in making a  documentary,"  but did  not affect the dis­ 
After decades of research  how bees measure  distance  gauge of distance.  said Esch.  tance they reported," said  
about bees, Notre Dame pro­fessor Harald Esch has made  and how they transfer this information to other bees."  "That is the revolutionary part because many ideas  While Esch conducted his research on bees· use of optic  Esch. This result gave Esch the idea that led to the  
a discovery that will revolu­tionize his field of study. In the May 31 issue of the scientific journal Nature, Esch, a professor emeritus in the University's department of biological sciences, and colleagues at the Australian National University in Canberra and the University of Wurz burg in Germany, reported that bees use sub­jective perceptions of how far they have flown to communi­cate to other bees the sites of  To accomplish this goal, Esch set up an experiment that forced forager bees to fly through a patterned, six­meter long tube to a feeding site and then back to the hive. Due to the complex designs on the inside of the tube, the bees that flew through it believed that they had traveled farther than the actual length of the tube. "They then communicate to other bees that they've been 70 to 100 meters, when in  were based on the idea that distance was the ground dis­tance between the hive and the feeder, period," said Esch. "It's not. it's the expe­rienced distance. For bees, flying across campus with all of its structures would trans­late to a longer distance on an open field." These groundbreaking dis­coveries did not go unnoticed in the wider scientific com­munity. After Nature pub­lished Esch's report, Science  flow in Germany, he laid the groundwork for that experi­ment with work on the Notre Dame campus. Researchers had assumed that bees measured distance based on the energy they used during flight. Esch dis­proved this theory by train­ing bees to go from a hive outside his window at the Galvin Life Sciences Building to two sites on campus: one on the roof of the Hesburgh Library, the other on the  research published in Nature. Esch, who studied and the University of Munich and the University of Wurzburg before coming to Notre Dame in 1965, has been research­ing bees and bee communica­tion since he was a doctorate student. After his discovery he spent the remainder of the summer in Wurzburg doing follow-up work on his optic flow research. Contact Kristin Yemm at  
food sources.  fact it's only been six," Esch  magazine bought an article  ground the same distance  yemm. l@nd.edu.  
"Hives send out foragers,  said.  about it.  away.  
Rembrandt etchings on display  
Special to the Observer  mously on loan to the muse­um in 1982, and bequested  Raising of Lazarus, the exhi­bition includes a 1638 self­ 
A unique collection of etch­ings by Rembrandt Harmenzoon van Rijn will be on exhibit Sept. 2-Nov. 18 in the O'Shaughnessy Gallery of the Notre Dame's Snite  to the Snite in 1991. Despite the fact that Rembrandt was, even in his own lifetime. a famous artist with a lucrative career paint­ing portraits of Amsterdam's  portrait which shows a pros­perous young Rembrandt in a plumed velvet cap looking, and apparently feeling, every inch the success he then was.  
Museum of Art.  wealthiest  citizens,  his  This self-confidence  con­ 
The opening of the exhibi­tion, "Rembrandt Prints: Rembrandt's Personal Vision of the Bible," will be marked with a public reception Sept. 16 [Sunday] from 2-4 p.m. at the Snite Museum. The exhibition features  choice of biblical subjects was unfashionable among his 17th century Dutch contem­poraries. He worked in a deter­minedly Calvinist culture which preferred landscapes, still lifes and domestic  trasts sharply with the more vulnerable human features in several of the biblical scenes, drawn and redrawn as the artist aged and his fortunes declined. Snite Museum hours  
some of the distinctive trea­sures of the Snite's perma­ scenes to devotional religious art.  . Tuesday and Wednesday from 10 a.m.-4 p.m.  
nent collection. The 70 etch­ In addition to such biblical  . Thursday through Saturday  
in gs  of  Old  and  New  scenes  as  Abraham  from 10 a.m.-5 p.m.  
Testament subjects were acquired by Jack and Alfrieda Feddersen of Elkhart, Ind., placed anony- Entertaining the Angels, David and Goliath, the flight into Egypt, Christ and the Woman of Samaria, and the  . Sunday from 1-5 p.m. . Closed on Mondays and holi­days. .Admission is free.  

-
-
-
E: ­

ENTREPRE,~URIALAOMIREDSPONTANEOUSINVENTIVESUCCESSFULREWARDEDVALUED 
:  ~·  /\~ ·~ I "­.-.·  We invite Notre Dame students to join us  
L...--,  ,~.....__.......,__,..-.Ill'·~~...  
Wednesday, September 12, 2001  
7:00pm -9:00pm  
Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room  
Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer  
Our advice about your next career move: be bullish  
ml.com/careers  ~MerrillLynch  
C 2001 Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc.  

page 4 The Observer . ' NEWS Monday, September 10, 2001 
Norton. Her own office, she explained, will
Plans 

use the new room for a variety of continued from page 1 purposes. For example, members of her staff will conduct focus groupsshould be doing. and surveys from the office. She 
Those ideas will be given serious added that she would like to see the consideration, added Jorissen. He room available for all groups within pointed to Kim Howe, a member of the Student Union to use, including Students for Environmental Action, for holding office hours. who approached the office of the The office of the president's third president last year with an idea for object centers on the concept of ser­reusable Grab and Go bags. Howe's vant leadership. Staff from the office initiative resulted in mesh bags of the president attended a retreat being available for students to pur­Sunday to work on that area of their chase this year. goals. 
Holding monthly town hall meet­Finally. in relation to their fourth 
ings will be one way the office will goal, Norton said she and her staff try to reach students, Moscona­would like to work more closely with explained. The first meeting is other campus groups, particularly scheduled for Sept. 18 at 8 p.m. in those within the student union. 
LaFortune's Notre Dame Room. For example, one of the earliest col­
"A lot of students feel either they laborative efforts of Norton and don't know what's going on or they Moscona's administration was have ideas to share," Moscona said. Saturday's Nebraska Game Watch, "It will be a good forum for open dis­which the office of the presidentcussion." planned in conjunction with the 
In addition, Norton, Moscona and Student Union Board. Jorissen plan to attend a hall council "We tried to think of a way to get all meeting in each dorm over the the students together in one place," course of the semester. Norton said. 
"That would compliment the town The office of the president is also hall meetings. They come see us, working with Notre Dame Securitythen we go see them," said Jorissen, and the South Bend Police adding that the three have already Department to plan a student safety attended a Hall President's Council workshop. The workshop will incor­meeting. porate safety infor­In addition, the mation for students three say they "There are opportunities living both on and off 
want to make the campus.
to recycle, but it's not 
student govern­"There have been a ment office on the easily accessible . ., lot of burglaries late­second floor of ly in South Bend." LaFortune more Norton said. "In light
Brian Moscona
open to students of recent events on 
as well. They vice president 
and off campus, it's recently began really timely." displaying calen-The office of the dars of upcoming president will also be events so students can find out what working with the Center for Social student government is planning. Concerns and other service groups on 
However, according to Norton, she campus to develop a service cam­and her staff realize that when stu­paign. The campaign will especiallydents spend time in LaFortune, they focus on working with children in the are usually on the first floor. As a local community. result, the office of the president will "We can really reach out to the soon open a student services center community, to the children that live on the first floor. around here," Norton said. 
"We know that being up on the This semester will also mark the second floor, we're not as visible. We beginning of a trial of Midnight want to be where students are," said Breakfast, an initiative the presi­
Strong.Character. 


dent's office has been developing with the dining halls. During the ini­tial trial period, according to Moscona, North Dining Hall will open for three hours starting at mid­night one Friday night a month. Opening North on a weekend night is intended to be an alternative to stu­dents living near North Quad from having to walk to Reeker's on South Quad. 
Continuing an event initiated by last year's student body president Brian O'Donoghue, the office of the presi­dent has also been planning the sec­ond annual Founder's Day on Oct. 11. The day's events will include a talent show and a special dinner in the din­ing halls, according to Jorissen. Displays around campus will also teach students about the history of Notre Dame, Norton added, to reflect the purpose of Founder's Day. 
"It's to celebrate what we're all about as a campus and what we stand for -our history, our faith," she said. 
The office of the president will also continue to study interaction between students and faculty. After conducting surveys and doing other research, the office will compile a report within this school year. Based on that report, the office will decide on how it can best encourage increased faculty and stu­dent interaction. 
Furthermore, in honor of the 30th anniversary of women being admitted to the University, Norton said her office would be planning an event for the spring. 
The social concerns division will also be looking into Notre Dame's recycling program. 
"There are opportunities to recycle, but its not easily accessible," Moscona said. 
In regards to LaFortune Student Center, Norton said her office would be seeking student feedback on possi­ble changes in how the building is used, and will also be working with Student Activities director Brian Coughlin and assistant director in charge of LaFortune Mary Edgington. 
"They seem very open to student desires for that to happen," Norton said. 
Ranking 
continued from page 1 
lion-topping Generations campaign ­the most successful fund-raising effort in American Catholic school history -the University was only 48th in financial resources. 
Notre Dame achieved an overall index score of 83 out of 100 possible points to earn the No. 19 ranking. 
Ivy League schools claimed the top three spots on the list, with Harvard and Yale Universities placing second and third, respectively. California Institute of Technology was fourth and Massachusetts Institute of Technology was fifth on the list. 
Emory University placed just ahead of Notre Dame at No. 18, while the University of California-Berkeley round­ed out the top 20. 
Because U.S. News bases the list on questionable criteria and because there are few shake-ups from year to year, the University has long given little credence to the rankings, Moore said. 
"I don't think that U.S. News or anyone else has come up with supportable methodology to say one school's No. 5 or another's No. 6," Moore said. 
Last month the rankings were the tar­get of at least two publications ­Washington Monthly and the New York Times -that suggested the annual list is based on schools' wealth, reputation and achievement of enrolled students. 
U.S. News recommends that its readers use the rankings as only one tool for selecting colleges, according to the mag­azine's official Web site. 
"We recognize that prospective stu­dents must consider their academic and professional goals, financial resources, scholastic record and special needs when choosing a school," the Web site states. 
Organizers of the college guide evalu­ate schools on 16 measures of merit, with academic reputation, student selec­tivity, faculty resources and graduation and retention rates given the most weight. 
Other factors used to rank schools include student SAT and ACT scores and faculty-student ratio. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at 
Contact Jason McFarley at 
laruffa. l@nd.edu. 
mcfarley.l@nd.edu. 
For nearly a century, the name Andersen has been synonymous with integrity. But it's the people behind the name that guarantee the innovation and quality our clients have come to expect. What really sets us apart, though, lies not so much in what we do. But who we are. 
Our strength is our people. Their innovation. Their conviction to do what they say. Are you ready to be a part of something special? Make your move. Forward. It's a great time to be at Andersen. 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Seniors: Come see us on campus. 
Andersen Day on Campus 
Tuesday, Sept 11th 2pm-6pm CCE Lower Level Drop by anytime. Snacks served all day; join us for Pizza at 5pm 
Take a few minutes to talk with representatives from Andersen -and take control of your future. Register to win a Palm Pilot and other prizes. Casual attire -bring a copy of your resume listing your location preference. We look forward to seeing you. 
Remember to surnbit your resume online at GO IRISH by September 16th to be considered for our October 3 on-campus interviews. 
, 

ANDERSEN www.andersen.com/careers 
©2001 Andersen. All rights reserved. Andersen is an equal opportunity employer. 

ATI 


Monday, September 10, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Blast near U.S. Embassy: A small explosion blew up a bench near the U.S. Embassy in Belarus' capital Minsk on Sunday during presidential elections that autoc~atic Alexander Lukashenko was expected to win. The target of the bomb was not clear. No injuries or damage other than to the bench were reported, police said. 
Germany unveils Jewish museum: 
Germany celebrated the gala opening of a national Jewish Museum, a dramatic zinc­clad building that even empty has drawn hun­dreds of thousands of visitors, unveiling for the first time exhibits spanning two millennia of Jewish history. The museum opened Sunday to some 850 invited guests including German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Farm subsidies go to the rich: 
Almost two-thirds of the $27 billion in federal farm subsidies doled out last year went to just 10 percent of America's farm owners, includ­ing people like media mogul Ted Turner and Scottie Pippen. 
Homeowners return amid fires: 
Some of the people forced to evacuate by a fast-moving forest fire in the Sierra Nevada mountains were allowed to return Sunday, hoping the blaze didn't threaten their homes again. The 7,700-acre fire was only about 50 percent contained Sunday. Full containment of the wildfires was not expected until Wednesday or Thursday. 
More artificial hearts in future: The company that developed a self-contained arti• ficial heart hopes to have 15 implanted by the middle of next year, according to a Ed Berger. a spokesman for Abiomed Inc. Robert Tools became the first recipient of a plastic and tita­nium Abiocor heart in a July 2 operation. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Homemade bomb explodes: Six young men are accused of using homemade bombs to set fire to an apartment house while several people were inside. No one was injured in the blaze early Friday morning, which left the four tenants homeless. Investigators think the six men, who were arrested a few hours after the fire, set it with Molotov cocktails -makeshift bombs lit with a rag protruding from a gas-filled bottle. The six men. aged 18-22. face charges that include conspiracy to commit arson and crim­inal recklessness. 
Market Watch September 7 
Dow 
9.605.85 -234.99 
Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 222 NIA 
AMEX: 856.42 -6.91 NASDAQ: 1,687.70 -17.94 NYSE: 566.17 -11.14 S&P 500: 1,085.78 -20.62 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -0.59 -0.20 33.70 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.80 -0.21 25.89 EXODUS COMM INC (EXDS) -24.07 -0.13 0.41 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.28 -0.04 14.36 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) •+l.24 +0.13 10.59 
Associated Press 

MANAMA. Bahrain 
A fire aboard a tanker vessel smuggling Iraqi oil was reported to be dying out Sunday after crew members abandoned ship in ~he Persian Gulf and were rescued by the U.S. Navy. 
"The fire appears to be out and the tanker's condition looks stable now and does not appear to be in any danger of sinking," said U.S. Navy spokesman Jeff Alderson. He said there was no sign of leakage. 
Earlier reports on the tanker. the 
BAHAMAS 


Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE 
A twin-engine plane was significantly overloaded when it crashed in the Bahamas last month, killing singer Aaliyah and eight others on board, according to a preliminary report. 
"The total weight of the luggage, fuel on board at the time of the accident. plus the weight of the pas­sengers showed that the total gross weight of the airplane was substantially exceeded." said the National Transportation Safety Board report, released Saturday. 

NTSB officials said they could not release figures on weight or other specifics on the crash. 
"It's a Bahamian acci­dent and we have to pub­lish what they approve us to publish," said Jorge Prellezo, southeast region­al director. 
Prellezo said he did not know when the final NTSB report would be released. 
Nine people were on board, but the Cessna 402B is certified to carry only six to eight people, including the pilot, Cessna Aircraft Co. spokeswoman Jessica Myers has said. 
Bahamian authorities have said the estimated weight of the plane. lug­gage and fuel was about 
5.495 pounds, not includ­ing the nine occupants. 
The maximum autho-: rized takeoff weight for the Cessna 402B is 6,300 pounds. 
No mechanical problems were found in the engines or airframe. but the plane's center of gravity was located toward the back of the plane, accord­ing to the report. 
The plane lifted off, then nosed down, crashing on the side of the runway, the report said. 
Bahamian officials, who are overseeing the investi­gation, are deciding whether to ask U.S. authorities to subpoena aircraft owner Gilbert Chacon to obtain the main­tenance records, the pilot's training records and to learn the details of how the charter was arranged. 
Chacon is the owner of Blackhawk International Airways, a charter airline. 
Neither Blackhawk nor Skystream, the plane's registered owner, had a permit to operate commer­cial charter flights in the Bahamas, said a Bahamian investigator. 
IRAQ 

Oil tanker fire begins to die out 
Honduran-flagged Khalid 1, had said the fire threatened to capsize or sink the vessel, which was in poor condi­tion. 
Alderson said the fire began in the crew's sleeping quarters on Saturday night but did not reach the ship's cargo -5,800 tons of Iraqi fuel oil. 
He could not explain how the fire died out. but said the Iraqi captain had reported it was caused by an electrical fault. 
A U.S. firefighting tug would con­tinue steaming toward the vessel, Alderson said. Iran had also dis­patched a firefighting vessel. 
The 343-foot•long tanker was at the northern end of the Gulf, about 54 miles west of Iran and 76 miles from Kuwait, said Capt. Abdel Munem al-Janahi of the Marine Emergency Mutual Aid Center in Bahrain. 
Alderson said the Khalid was caught illegally smuggling Iraqi oil in violation of U.N. sanctions on Aug. 30th. 
The ship's Iraqi captain contacted the USS Nicholson, a U.S. destroyer. which sent out a small boat to pick up the crew of fifteen which included the captain. 

Monday, September 10, 2001 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
BELARUS 
Autocrat wins presidental election 
. Lukashenko sweeps Sunday's election under a cloud of suspicion 
Associated Press 
MINSK 

Alexander Lukashenko, an outspoken autocrat who is at odds with the West, claimed a sweeping win Sunday in presidential elections dogged by allegations of fraud. 
Lukashenko had 78.4 per­cent of the vote with 7 5 per­cent of the ballots counted, the Central Election Commission said early Monday. The commission said it would announce the winner later in the day. 
.. It was an elegant and beautiful victory," Lukashenko told a news con­ference. 
Opposition candidate Vladimir Goncharik had 12.5 percent of the vote and Sergei Gaidukevich had 2.2 percent, election commission chairwoman Lidia Yermoshina told a press con­ference. 
Victory would give Lukashenko another five­year term and a mandate to pursue his goal of a merger with Russia -and likely fur­ther isolate this stagnant for­mer Soviet republic at the heart of Eastern Europe. 
Opinion polls before the election had indicated Lukashenko would win by a large margin. 
Goncharik told The Associated Press he wouldn't recognize the results of the 


vote  and  accused  
Lukashenko  of  "seizing  
power."  

"This is clear falsification caused by replacing ballots during early balloting and at closed polling stations," he said. He vowed to lodge protests in Belarus and abroad. 
Goncharik supporters broke windows in a building across the square from the election commission's tempo­rary headquarters late Sunday, prompting their can­didate to emerge and urge calm among the crowd of about 100. 
Voters turned out in 
gray, 

"Our elections do not 
"We had a

drizzly 
need anybody's head-on­
weather Sunday to recognition. There is no head colli­
sion with

cast ballots, such thing in the 
the Westand the 

legislation as western and we
commission 
said turnout recognition. •• know the result. Let
was nearly 
us recog­

80 percent 
Alexander Lukashenko 
nize this in
well 
Minsk president 
a civilized

above the 50 percent needed to make the vote valid. 
· The voting was peaceful, although an explosion blew up a bench outside the U.S. Embassy in the capital of Minsk on Sunday evening. 
No injuries were reported and it was unclear whether the explosion was linked to the election. 
Tensions soared in the nation of 10 million before the vote, with police raids on independent media and opposition campaign offices. In recent weeks, former 
security officials have accused Lukashenko's gov­ernment of sponsoring death squads to remove his critics. Lukashenko denies the accu­sations. 
Voting at the Minsk Sports Academy. Lukashenko dis­missed allegations of vote fixing and brushed off sug* gestions that the election might not be recognized as valid by the West. 
"Our elections do not need anybody's recognition," he said. "There is no such thing in the legislation as West"ern recognition" 
After claiming victory, he 
sounded a 
softer note. 
way and 

s t a r t rebuilding relations," he said. 
European observers had reported no serious irregu­larities in the balloting Sunday afternoon. 
But many have protested campaign practices and pres­sure on opposition groups. 
Election rules allowed for five days of early voting for citizens with a compelling reason to cast ballots ahead of time -a practice U.S. officials had said could lead to tampering. 
The Bush administration also has said Lukashenko stacked the electoral com­mission with people loyal to him and that he "regularly obstructs and impedes" the electoral process. 
The State Department said Sunday that it would not immediately comment on the election. 
Lukashenko's policies have unnerved many of Belarus' neighbors in Central and Eastern Europe, which are trying to shed their commu­nist pasts and strengthen their ties with the West. Critics dub him the last dic­tator in Europe. 
Neighboring Poland and Lithuania are seeking European Union member­ship, which will likely further isolate Belarus. And with Poland already in NATO and Lithuania heading there. Belarus is becoming a buffer state between the Western alliance and a Russia hostile to NATO expansion. 
The vote was Lukashenko's first electoral test since 1996, when he pushed through a referendum that extended his five-year term by two years in balloting most Western governments refused to acknowledge. 
The United States has stopped calling him "presi­dent" because he remained in office beyond the five-year term. 
Lukashenko remains popu­lar at home for his defiance of the West, and for his efforts to hold together the social safety net and stem the economic turmoil that accompanied the 1991 Soviet collapse. 
Quake 
jolts Los 
Angeles 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
An earthquake shook the 
greater Los Angeles area 
Sunday, but there were no 
immediate reports of damage 
or injuries. 
The quake had a prelimi­
nary magnitude of 4.2 and 
was centered about one mile 
southeast of West Hollywood, 
said Lucy Jones of the U.S. 
Geological Survey. 
The quake was felt in 
downtown Los Angeles where 
it rolled for about four sec­
onds and also shook in the 
suburban areas of Van Nuys, 
Whittier and Glendale. 
The quake struck at 4:59 
p.m. and was followed by another temblor of magnitude 
2.8 that struck at 5:01 p.m. The second quake was cen­tered nine miles west of downtown· Los Angeles in the Beverly Hills area, according to a preliminary report from the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena. 
Officials with the county 
and city fire departments said 
there were no immediate 
reports of damage or injury. 
The quake was felt as far 
away as Lancaster, which is 
about 70 miles north of 
downtown Los Angeles. 
"It is the type that would rattle dishes, knock dishes out of shelves and things of this nature. But as far as damage to buildings, I don't think we'll have significant damage," said city fire department spokesman Jim 

Monday, September 10, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
De01ocrats blame Bush for slump 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Democrats are stepping up efforts to blame President Bush for the faltering econo­my, even suggesting he resub­mit his budget to reflect the disappearing surplus. 
Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle said Sunday that administration's actions are directly responsible for the current downturn. 
"Clearly, when you make the U-turn that the president did last spring, you can expect a U-turn in results," Daschle, D­
S. D., said on ABC's "This Week." "So clearly we're in a box, and I think the president now is recognizing that we're in a box, and we have to find a way out." 
White House officials have said the tightening economy just puts more pressure on Congress to spend prudently. Privately the administration is considering calling for across­the-board budget cuts next year if the economy worsens, Bush advisers said last week. 
Democrats blame Bush's 10­year, $1.35 trillion tax cut for the nation's economic woes and suggest Social Security reserves are in jeopardy. 
Projections by both the White House Office of Management and Budget and the nonparti­san Congressional Budget Office show that the non-Social Security part of the nation's budget surplus essentially has evaporated. 
Since Congress returned to work after Labor Day, Democrats and the administra­tion have been fighting over who is responsible for the eco­nomic rut. 
The nation's unemployment rate grew to 4.9 percent in August as job losses in manu­facturing passed 1 million for the yearlong slowdown. The increase in the monthly jobless rate was the biggest in six years. 
Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., said Bush needs to resubmit a budget that has "numbers in it that are real." He also said that there is little Democrats can do to boost the economy. 
"There is nothing that we Democrats can do by ourselves because we have only a one­vote margin in the Senate and he has a veto pen," Kerry said on CBS' "Face The Nation." He also said it was clear the Bush budget would mean spending money from the Social Security surplus. 
Senate Minority Leader Trent Lott rejected the notion that Bush is responsible and said the surplus will remain untouched. 
"Well. as a matter of fact. the downturn in the economy start­ed 13 or 14 months ago," Lott said on ABC. "The budget we're dealing with right now, where we see an effect by the declining surplus, actually is one we voted on last year." 
Lott said there would be no need to use money from the Social Security surplus to cover all of Congress' priorities. He suggested that cutting the tax on investments -called the capital gains tax -would increase tax revenue and help Congress deal with the shrinking budget sur­plus. 
Republicans believe many tax­payers would take advantage of the temporarily lower rate to sell investments, raising billions of dollars. 
"I am for the capital gains tax rate cut. which, by the way, would spur growth. and bring in additional revenue. certainly, in the short term, everybody agrees with that," Lott said. 
White House spokeswoman Jennifer Millerwise said Bush "will remain open-minded" about a capital gains tax cut. 
"He also believes the (income) tax cut and the fed reserve's rate cuts are the right remedy and will encourage the growth need­ed to bring the economy back," she said. 
Millerwise declined to go beyond those comments when asked about the remarks by Daschle and Kerry. 
FIJI 
President swears in new Prime Minister 
. Ceremony returns nation to democratic rule 
Associated Press 
SUVA 

A banker installed by the army as Fiji's caretaker prime minister following last year's nationalist coup was sworn in Monday as prime minister, returning the ethnically divid­ed nation to democratic rule. 
President Ratu Josefa Iloilo swore in Laisenia Qarase, an indigenous Fijian, in a brief 
ceremony before dignitaries and officials at Government House, a sprawling colonial mansion overlooking Suva lagoon. 
"May God be with you," Iloilo told the new prime min­ister. 
The party then walked out­side for a Methodist church service. 
"I feel privileged and hon­ored to be appointed prime minister." Qarase said. "Fiji should have a fairly stable government during the next five years and beyond." 
Qarase wrote to the presi­dent Sunday saying he had the support of a majority of legis­lators to form a new governing coalition, presidential secre­tary Jeremaia Waqanisau said. 
Qarase's indigenous Fijian­dominate d Cabinet was expected to be sworn in Wednesday, giving Fiji its first democratically elected admin­istration since gunmen stormed Parliament on May 
19. 2000, and toppled the Pacific nation's first ethnic Indian-led government. 
Qarase's appointment effec­tively gives the hardline nationalist coup plotters what they were demanding -a return of political power to 
Join Catering By.•.Design and work for the best 
IF YOU WORK MSU, use, & TENN 8am -1pm YOU WILL RECEIVE $50.00 PLUS $6.35 AN HOUR AND GRATUITIES ALL GAMES START AT 1:30pm DRESS CODE IS KHAKI'S AND POLO SHIRT 
AND/OR 

WORK ALL FOOTBALL LUNCHEONS FROM 10am-1pm YOU WILL RECEIVE AND EXTRA $75.00 PLUS $6.35 AN HOUR AND GRATUITIES DRESS CODE IS BLACK PANTS, WHITE SHIRT WITH COLLAR AND CLACK CLOSE TOE SHOES 
AND/OR 

WORK ALL SET UPS 6pm-9:30pm YOU WILL RECEIVE $75.00 PLUS $6.35 AN HOUR PLUS GRATUITIES DRESS CODE IS JEANS, T-SHIRT AND TENNIS SHOES 
Stop in at 612 Grace Hall to fill out an application for employ­ment. We have server and breakfast shifts available. We offer flexible hours and great pay! 
indigenous Fijians. 
The coup ousted Mahendra Chaudhry, the first prime min­ister from Fiji's 44-percent ethnic Indian minority. 
Many indigenous Fijians, who make up 51 percent of the country's 820,000 people, believe Indians, first brought to the country in the 19th cen­tury to work in sugar cane fields, wield too much political and economic clout. 
Qarase said he has the sup­port of a moderate block of four legislators and two inde­pendents, giving him the six seats he needs to combine with his Fijian United Party's 31 seats for a majority in the 71-seat Parliament. 
But a final agreement between the two sides had still to be signed and talks were continuing, moderates spokesman Kenneth Zinck said. 
Chaudhry's ethnic-Indian dominated Fiji Labor Party took 27 seats in recent elec­tions -10 fewer than its 1999 winning tally. But under Fijian law, any party winning more than eight seats must be offered Cabinet posts. 
Labor could complicate the government's formation by taking a number of Cabinet jobs, and Qarase urged the party to stay out of the gov­
ernment. 
"I have made no secret that I will be happy if he [Chaudhry] does not accept an invitation to join the government," he said. "It will be an unworkable government if he does. It will never work." 
The hardline nationalist Conservative Alliance took six seats but Qarase made it clear he preferred a deal with the moderates and independents rather than meeting the terms set by the hardliners. 
Their demands included amnesty and pardon for one of their elected legislators, coup leader George Speight. and his coconspirators. 
Speight was elected from his jail cell where he is awaiting trial with 12 key aides on trea­son charges stemming from the coup that carry the death sentence. 
Qarase's government was expected to face an early con­fide nee vote called by Chaudhry's Labor Party. 
Parliament is expected to sit for the first session of the new government next month, 17 months after masked gunmen led by Speight stormed into the debating chamber to take Chaudhry and his Cabinet hostage, holding them for 56 days. 
Ki Aikido 
Mondays -7:30-8:30 Thursdays -7:45-8:45 Beginning September 17 
r. 
-.· \ Demonstration 
September 10-7:45pm · Rockne 219 
Register in Advance at RecSports Class Fee is $22 Call 1-6100 for More Information 
Open to all ND students, f acuity, staff, reitrees and spouses 
k?-=-r~ 
r 
JJt,r ,'i ~y;r.ur~'.1;: _.,-J)r., 
Monday, September 10, 2001 

page 8 The Observer . NEWS 
CHILE 
U.S. involved in 1970 plot 
• CBS reports Kissinger blocked presidential candidate 
Associated Press 
SANTIAGO 

The United States and Henry Kissinger were more deeply involved than was previously thought in a 1970 plot to prevent a left-wing politician from becoming Chile's president, CBS televi­sion news reported Sunday. 
The program "60 Minutes" quotes an independent researcher as saying that the CIA sent a cable to its office in Chile instructing agents there to continue fomenting a military takeover. The cable came following a conversa­tion with Kissinger, who at the time was President Nixon's national security adviser and later became secretary of state. 
According to researcher Peter Kornbluh, the order also came a day after Kissinger has said he cut off any attempt to undermine Chile's democratic govern­ment. 
The plot did not prevent the Marxist Salvador Allende, who had won a September 1970 presidential election, from taking office the next month. But the right-wing plotters killed Chilean Gen. Rene Schneider. described as an opponent of the Chilean military's involvement in pol­itics. 
Three years later, Allende committed suicide while his 
palace was being bombed by the Chilean military. and Gen. Augusto Pinochet took over as the country's military dictator. 
Kissinger declined to appear on the "60 Minutes" program, CBS said. Kissinger's office late Sunday returned a message from The Associated Press but was unable to reach him immedi­ately for comment. 
However, the program aired Kissinger's testimony during a 1975 Senate investi­gation saying he ordered all contacts with the coup plot­ters to be cut off on Oct. 15, 1970. 
Kissinger's testimony indicat­ed the United States had stopped any such attempt before Schneider's slaying. 
Kornbluh also said newly revealed documents show that the U.S. intelligence comm unity believed a coup could not be carried out in Chile in 1970. 
Edward Korry, then the 
U.S. ambassador to Chile, said on "60 Minutes" that he also advised Kissinger that a coup would fail and boomerang against Nixon just as the failed Bay of Pigs inva­sion of Cuba had put the United States in a bad light a 
decade earlier. 
Korn bluh Korry said he
"It is the continuing 

told the had already
policy ofthe U.S.

program: ordered all "The very government to foment a contacts cut off with the coup
next day, coup in Chile. ,, 
plotters in the
the CIA sent 
Chilean mili­
a cable to 
Peter Kornblum tary, but CBS
the station 
cited what it
researcher

in the 
Chilean  
capital  of  
Santiago, based  on  its con­ 
versation  with  Kissinger,  

which is referred to in the very first line. This cable was absolutely explicit: It is the continuing policy of the U.S. government to foment a coup in Chile." 
Kornbluh is a senior ana­lyst at the National Security Archive, an Jndependent research institute ·which works at getting secret U.S. documents declassified, according to CBS. 
The 1975 Senate investiga­tion had already determined Nixon had wanted to incite a military takeover, but 
said were min­
utes of an Oct. 7 meeting of a covert action committee in which Kissinger allegedly said that Korry's orders "should be rescinded forthwith." 
Also appearing in the pro­gram was retired Col. Paul Wimert. a former military attache in Chile who CBS said was assigned the task of pro­moting a coup in Chile to block Allende. 
Wimert told the program that he delivered weapons to the CIA to use in a plot to kidnap Schneider and send him to neighboring Argentina. "The move was supposed to incite a military takeover of the government and prevent Allende from taking office," he said. 
THROW YO HANDS UP 



Don'tMiss These I111 ortantMeetin rs: 
CLUB INFO MEETINGS 
(ATTENDANCE REQUIRED FOR EVERY 
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT CLUB) Monday, Sept. 10 @ 9:45 PM Notre Dame Room Tuesday, Sept. 11 @ 4:00 PM Notre Dame Room Wednesday, Sept. 12 @4:00 PM Notre Dame Rao Friday, Sept.14 @ 4:00 PM Notre Dame Room 
9 CONCESSION STAND TRAININc;@ Tues., Sept. 11@ 4:00 PM Montgomery Theater Thursday, Sept. 27 @ 4:00 PM Notre Dame Room Tuesday, Oct. 30 @ 4:00 PM Notre Dame Room 
FOOD SERVICE TRAINING 
(HOW TO PLAN A PARTY) Monday, Sept. 10 @ 4:00 PM Notre Dame Room Wednesday, Sept.19@ 5:00 PM Montgomery Theater (Vendor Fair to follow) 
VENDOR FAIR 
Wednesday, Sept. 19 @ 5:30 PM -7:30 PM LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
Monday, September 10, 200 I 
The Observer . NEWS page 9 
U.S. army develops chemical resistant uniforms 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

To help soldiers survive. the 
U.S. Army is developing a new generation of combat uniforms using tiny, doctored fibers that let air through while blocking toxins from chemical and bio­logical weapons. 
The "chemical protective overgarment," expected to ship in as little as two years, is one of the early uses of nan­otechnology: the science of manipulating single atoms and molecules to create new prod­ucts. 
While nanotechnology won't be ready to build tiny machines or computer proces­sors for at least 10 years, researchers in materials sci­ence are already using it to change the properties of plas­tics, oils and textiles, giving them breathability, heat-resis­tance, strength and flexibility. 
"They're such small fibers, it's not a trivial matter to get them into a uniform that's going to be twisted and sat on," said Tom Tassinari, a sci­
entist with  the  U.S.  Army  
Natick  Soldier  Center  in  
Natick, Mass.  

Ten years out, the Army hopes to distribute a "smart" combat uniform with nano­engineered fibers, embedded tives sold by Hybrid are tiny. The largest has a diameter of just 3 nanometers, or billionths of a meter. 
The nanoparticles are used in plastic that carries the qualities of an industrial ceramic: resis­tance to heat and cold, super­hard toughness and flame resis­tance. 
Joe Lichtenhan, president of Hybrid Plastics, said versions of Hybrid-enriched plastics are being tested by NASA on the exterior of the International Space Station, and by military and aerospace firms as a replacement for the metal bodies of ballistic missiles and satellite launch rockets. 
The nanoplastic missiles are cheaper and easier to manufac­ture than metal-jacketed ones and can protect the payload ­whether a warhead or satellite -from collisions with space junk while enduring the deep cold of space and the heat of re­entry, Llchtenhan said. 
Hybrid is also developing a nanolubricant for the Air Force that can handle temperatures of 500 degrees Fahrenheit -about 100 degrees higher than current oils -without burning or break­ing down, Llchtenhan said. 
Other chemical firms toiling in the nanorealm include DuPont, whose scientists are trying to create fibers that conduct elec­tricity and change their shape from round to square or triangu­lar. DuPont wants the fibers to be used in clothes that change color and size at a wearer's command, said DuPont spokes­woman Leslie Cormier. 
A small company outside Boston, Triton Systems. Inc., is selling a nanoengineered plastic pouch for use as a helium-filled heel cushion in Converse Helium sneakers sold in Japan and China. 
Trition uses an additive of clay nanoparticles to tighten the molecular structure of the pouch, allowing it to trap the helium underfoot for a minimum of 18 months, said Ross Haghighat. Triton's chairman and chief execu­tive. 
Triton is also developing a scratch-proof plastic coating for U.S. Navy helmet visors and jet windows, Haghighat said. The nanocoating might soon be used to scratch-proof regular eyeglasses, he said. 
Another material sciences firm, Nanophase Technologies Corp. of Romeoville, Ill., sells nano­engineered particles, such as zinc oxide, to manufacturers of products as diverse as industrial coatings and cos­metics. 
sensors and tiny computers that allow it to stop bullets, monitor vital signs and under­go chameleon-like camouflage changes that blend in to sur­roundings, Tassinari said. 
In the military and civilian worlds, a wave of new nanoprod ucts are emerging, though none as sexy as, say, the carbon nanotube mini­robots that may someday swim in our blood streams and repair damaged cells. 
Products include scratch­proof eye­glasses, heli­
um -filled 
"They're such small 

sneakers and 
fibers it's not a trival

plastic­encased bal­matter to get them into a 
listic mis­uniform that's going to be siles. 
twisted and sat on . .,

E d d i e Bauer sells $42 Nano­Tom Tassinari 
Care khakis, scientist with US Anny 
with a cotton fabric that undergoes a chemical treatment devised by Nano-Tex, a subsidiary of Burlington Industries Inc. "The treatment adds an outer struc­ture to the cotton molecule to better fend off wrinkles and globs of ketchup," said Delores Sides, a Burlington spokes­woman. 
Nano-Tex has added liquid­repellent characteristics to fab­rics used on couches, and breathability to synthetics, giving them the comfort characteristics of cotton. 
The company is now testing an odor-trapping fabric whose mol­ecular-sized sponges hold stale vapors through multiple wear­ings, until the item -socks, for example -come into contact with a washing machine's soapy water. 
In Fountain Valley, Calif., 
Hybrid Plastics is ere­a t i n g nanoparticle additives for plastics found in everything from high-per­formance jet engine lubri­cants to weatherproof circuit boards in boats and swimming 
pools. 

Like other nanotechnology practitioners, Hybrid Plastics alters the molecular structure of its raw material to create a new structure with properties that go far beyond the original. 
The nanoparticles that make up the powder and liquid addi­


BELGIUM 
NATO replaced by outside forces 
ters were adamant that any Sept. 26, and NATO has said
. Mulitnational 
new force in Macedonia must the mission will neither be forces move into have a U.N. Security Council extended nor replaced. mandate. Britain opposed U.S. Air Force Gen. Joseph
Macedonia to 
that idea, and others said Ralston, the supreme allied
effectivly prevent there simply isn't enough commander in Europe, said 
another Balken time to push a mandate Sunday that decisions" are 
through the United Nations. yet to be made" about the
war 

Macedonia has been cool to type of force that would suc­further international military ceed NATO. 
Associated Press 
intervention in its struggle "I can only tell you that against the guerrillas. The there is no military solution to 
GENVAL 

rebels say their struggle has this problem. There has to be
European Union foreign 
been to seek greater rights political solution, and I amministers agreed Sunday to for minority ethnic Albanians. hopeful that people of good 
back a new multinational 
But many Macedonians. will can find a way to workforce to replace the current including government offi­together to solve it," Ralston
NATO disarmament mission 
cials, fear the guerrillas might said following talks with
in Macedonia, saying it is 
try to carve out territory for Macedonia's defense minis­needed to prevent a resump­themselves and unite it with ter, Vlado Buckovski. 
tion of fighting that could lead neighboring Kosovo. The EU foreign ministersto another Balkan war. 
Javier Solana, the EU's said they worried the securityA German plan endorsed by chief of foreign and security situation could disintegratethe ministers at an informal 
policy, was to contact without more international
session in Genval, Belgium Macedonian President Boris help.
calls for a force led by NATO Trajkovski to inform him of "We are under pressure of
but smaller and including 
the European Union's conclu­time," said German Foreignnon-NATO nations. 
sion. Minister Joschka Fischer.
NATO has so far resisted 
The 19-nation NATO "We must avoid a vacuum."
staying in Macedonia past 
alliance deployed 4,500 While the French and some
Sept. 26, but since 11 EU 
troops to Macedonia last others might favor using themembers are also members month to collect weapons EU's own rapid-reaction force of NATO, Sunday's decision from ethnic Albanian rebels. for the mission, it was gener­could signal a change in the 
In return for the surrender ally agreed the European
alliance's position. 
Some of the 15 EU minis-of about 3,300 weapons by force is not developed the end of September, the enough. The EU is planning to government agreed to give have a 60,000-man rapid ethnic Albanians more rights, reaction corps by 2003, with including more representa• initial elements ready by the tion in the police, civil service end of this year. and supreme court. The The German idea is for a
GreatJapanese food 
changes would also make smaller force than the current 
Albanian an official language 4,500 now in Macedonia. Its in some areas, and allow mission, like the current one, some self-rule in predomi­must be for a limited time. 
at great prices. 
nantly ethnic Albanian The military presence regions. should under no circum­
Mll(A

A JAPAN(,( ~f)TAURANT 
Carry Out and Dine In 

On Sunday. troops collected stances constitute an artificial arms near the village of line between the two ethnic
Cleveland 

Brodec, a former guerrilla groups, the German plan stronghold and the site of a said.
Come join us for our 
rebel training base. They The force would be made
402 US 31 North 
were to begin burning more up of NATO troops and open
South Bend, IN 46637 
lunch specials! 
than 1,200 of the weapons on to non-NATO members, 
Monday. including the Scandinavians. The NATO mission ends Russia and the Ukraine. 
(219) 272-2535 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, September 7. 2001 
page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradrer SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan-GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX................ .............................................631-6927 ADVERTISING...............:.....................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR./AssT. ME....................631-4541 8USIN.l:SS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.................. ........................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWP0INT............. ,...................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR\"s............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web sire at http://obsrrver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 

movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rares of prim ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the edirors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer 1s the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemenrs based on contenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerrers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstzow regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor m ChiefMilu Com,oiiy. 

I realized something last week when I was walking around campus, watch­ing students hustle to classes and catch up with each other after sum­mer break. 
My life sucks. 

Those of you who know me personal­ly or are long-time fans of my column (all three of you) will know that this is not an unusual statement for me to make. For years I've jokingly referred to myself as "God's toilet" because it seems sometimes like I have the worst luck in the world. Last year at about this time I wrote a column about how I had the "summer from hell" because my grandmother died and my friend had an abortion. This past summer was hardly better; I was involved in a car accident the day after commence­ment and my dog died. 
Then, of course, there's my ongoing struggle to find permanent employ­ment in a job market more volatile than my father's stomach after two bowls of chili. But it's more than that now. My life is just -boring. 
I miss the unmistakable buzz that charges the campus when everyone returns from summer. the first couple days of classes that let out after 30 minutes or so but you still recognize right away that the class will either be really great or excruciatingly bor­ing, chicken nugget day at the dining hall, learning the words to the Alma Mater and even more things I took for granted when I was here, thinking they were all part of humdrum stu­dent life. 

Now, of course, I'm no longer a stu­dent and I miss it terribly. Even the act of walking around campus felt hollow and strange, some other­dimension trek where all the experi­ences I had were right in front of me but unavailable, like going back to somewhere you once knew and find­ing it completely different than the way you remembered it. 
I miss picking up The Observer every day to find out about essential campus events. I would have liked to attend FlipStock, but I had no idea when the hell it was until it was too late. I could have begged Regis Philbin for money when he helped break ground on the performing arts center but I didn't hear about it until after he'd already gotten out of town. Yeah, I know, I could have looked at the online version of The Observer to get in the know, and I have a couple of times, but it's just not the same as seeing the white van with the Cubs and Bulls bumper stickers and grab­bing the first issue out of the stack. 
I figured the frivolity of Rally in the Alley might cure my boredom and malaise but I forgot one crucial fac­tor: I turned 21 in July, so the drink­ing was just not as fun. I didn't even have to make a hasty exit when the cops showed up. 
And I was hoping that being an alumnus would give me that special charm or savoir-faire that might impress people I chatted with, espe­cially the ladies. But it didn't really help, mostly because when I explained that I'd already graduated. it came with that load of melodrama about how much I miss Notre Dame and how I'm unemployed and a small fortune in debt. Three or four times the women I was hitting on walked away from me when I was in the mid­dle of my monologue. OK. so that really didn't happen. but it could have. 
Saturday night I was at a cousin's wedding reception, and the fact that a Notre Dame football game was going on was nagging me all night. It was the first time I hadn't watched a game in its entirety in about four years. Everyone questioned my visible anxi­ety and several times I had to correct myself because I said 'Tm a student" instead of "I'm an alumnus." I don't know how I'm going to feel at kickoff time against Michigan State. with seemingly everyone in the stadium except me. I hope I don't cry. I also hope I don't cry after the game, but that's a different story altogether. 
I'm getting e-mails from my friends that have moved on, enjoying them­selves and their careers in exciting places like Boston, Chicago and San Francisco and I'm almost embar­rassed to reply that yes, I'm still in South Bend and no. I don't have a job yet and yes, pity me. poor poor me. But I am vindicated by the realization that everyone else I know probably has the same bittersweet sensations about Our Lady's University. The only thing that makes me different from the rest of them is because I haven't yet found something to help me move on, like a job. Hopefully someone is reading this who can do something about that. 
That means you. Hegis. 
Mike Marchand. class of2001, is currently attempting to write for both RealClearPolitics and The Politix Group. If you see him panhandling in front ofthe JACC next week. it means he didn't get either gig. He can be reached by e-mail at Marchand.3 @nd.edu. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Myra McGrifT  C. Spencer Beggs  
Kelly Hager  Graphics  
Kevin Suhanik  Katie McKenna  
Sports  Production  
Katie McVoy  Noah Amstadter  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Kurt Bogaard  Peter Richardson  

POLL QUESTION 

In response to the question, "Have you or a friend ever encountered the date rape drug on campus?" 94% answered no; 6% answered yes. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Theres no secret about success. Did you ever know a successful man that didn't tell you about it?" 
Kin Hubbard writer 
O
THE BSERVER 

Monday, September 7, 2001 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Choosing academics over acclaim 
The first several weeks of class are always fit for self-laudation. This is the time. when students in all colleges feel the need to introduce themselves to their fellow students not by extending hands horizontally and sharing a moment of mutual recognition but by raising their hands vertically in class as if to say, "This is who I am." 
Except that these thousands of hands that rise simultaneously in lecture halls and conference rooms across campus do not represent an attempt to communicate with fellow colleagues. They are meant as bombastic displays of communicating one's own intellectual merit to the rest of the class. It's as if this particular student feels a need to prove to the rest of his or her colleagues that he or she deserves to be at Notre Dame. Or rather. that. "I am truly intellectually gifted (and I am trying to convince you here), despite the fact that I feel so miniscule in this ambience of inflated egotism.·· 
This is surely cause for remorse. For its quite a regrettable affair when students are content to represent themselves as brilliant cerebral machinations instead of kind, mindful human beings. And in the process they overlook the opportunity to develop friendships; instead they choose rivalry. But in the end, no one can doubt that they are a brain that is made of what Notre Dame brains should be made of. And if anything, they've protected their own sense of worth. 
I see this every day. Here are your perfect examples: recall the guy in your phi­losophy class who simply can't stop objecting to what the professor says because (even though he's never explored this particular topic in depth before) he really believes he can prove a scholar -who has dedicated decades of his life to this particular topic -wrong in his first attempt. Or the girl who adamantly insists that Descartes is an idiot because he entertained circular arguments. Let's not mention that. despite the fact that both students and faculty alike have a penchant for making jabs at Descartes. they know well they have not half the mind that he had. Or the brilliant chemistry T.A. who (sadly) takes refuge in Nieuwland Science Hall's dark corridors and waits for undergraduate students (a.k.a. quizzical looks) to ridicule. Or the young man who reduces feminist literature to the bitter diatribe of lonely single women. (No doubt, my comments will be attributed to some such bitterness.) 
Some of us are {gasp) here to learn. And while we do appreciate genuine inquiry as an enriching component of education. we do not extend our thanks to those of you who interrupt the learning process in order to make the classroom an arena for your flagrant egotism. There is a certain lack of authenticity in the act of dis­guising rhetoric as inquiry. And more often than not your fellow classmates pick up on it. And sometimes (with all due respect) it's a little bit irritating when a stu­dent disrespects another student's attempt to learn because they want to be sure everyone in the class knows that they're exceptionally bright. 
The truth is that very few of us (with the possible exception ofsome faculty members and those of you who believe the University is a place for self-laudation) doubt that any student at this school is very bright. And we don't need you to quiz the professors and their poor T.A.s on every single little detail -we trust that they're qualified. After all. they've dedicated a good portion of their lives to sub­ject-; we just barely graze. 
Be critical; don't misunderstand me. Critique is an exemplary way of advancing the learning process. But please. examine your motives before you raise your hand in class. ls your question or comment really meant as genuine inquiry? Or does it simply disguise an egotistical demeanor'? 
Some of us don't care to be your fans. Some of us go to great lengths to scrounge up to the money to attend this University-for the purpose of learning. We don't really believe that the cost of our tuition is worth a circus of academic pedantics. Please don't waste our time. 
Kelly Fabrega senior Welsh Family Hall Sept. 7. 2001 

Questioning the Performing Arts Center's adequacy 
As a senior film, television and the­to support the needs of a growing ater major, you can imagine my excite­department. 
ment when I saw that The Observer had finally opted to run an editorial regarding the inadequacy of the new performing arts center. I was thrilled that someone outside the music and theater departments finally noticed what a sad waste of resources this obviously undersized project is going to be -and moreover, cared enough to write an article about it. 
Then, of course, I read it. I immediately realized the error of / my haste. How silly of me to imagine that anyone on this cam­pus, even the editor­ial staff of The Observer, would be concerned about the Performing Arts Center as a performing arts facility. I believe the only comment regarding the center's adequacy 
as the new home of FTT was that it "will accommo­date many of the theatrical works t-:::::::-,...~ " on campus, but 
l _f·r T

other events 
Ni 't O 1-J(,
•

often require li• more than 900 ;~ 
Af PLY 
\::;.,. ___~_.,,,,,,,

seats to meet demand." 
Hmmm ... it's unfortunate no one thought to ask someone in the department about what Notre Dame theatrical works actually require in terms of 
1
Ffl

space and facilities. 
That person might have learned that in many respects, FTT will have less space than it currently does, especially since there will be more non-~­departmental groups ·-·' making demands on the ~ theaters in the new build-\\_ ing. r--­
The mainstage theater will have significantly fewer seats than \\!ashington Hall, a cir­cumstance that can't help but adversely affect department ticket revenues. The smaller space also halts any attempts at new audience develop­ment. There is not enough office space to accommodate the current FTT facul­ty; a serious problem if the University plans to attract any new professors to the department. And as a costume shop employee, 1 am also painfully aware that we are gaining negligible · new shop space and no real new cos­tume storage space -even though our current facilities are ridiculously small and cramped; they're hardly adequate to support our current work; much less 
And the number of majors is grow­ing, by the way, despite the apparent efforts of the administration to quell 
any interest in it. The new building .-r--~ 
will obviously offer some advan­tages, especially in terms of 
technology, but to invest : such a large amount of , money in a facility that 
--~ will be obsolete as soan ~ as it is completed is very, very wrong on a very fundamental level. The problems 
that I've mentioned here only scratch the surface of the 
' facility's inadequa­cies -and I've hardly even men­
-tioned the prob­lems it causes for the music depart­
ment. 
The adminis­tration is send­ing a clear mes­
sage to FTT and music majors, all the other students on campus who participate in theatrical and musical groups, the current fac­ulty in both departments, as well as prospec­tive students and faculty members that 
the performing arts are not val­ued here. Need another exam­
ple? 
No one in the department was invited to the 
groundbreaking 
ceremony; many faculty didn't even know when it was to 
be held. It's clear to me that the "perform­ing arts" portion of the 

title for the building is there as a token only; the inhabitants of Main Building could obviously care less about fostering / artistic expression and scholarship among Notre Dame students. And The 
Observer editorial. a veritable foun­tain of indifference toward FTT's con­cerns, merely reinforces that senti­ment. 
I didn't start out intending to sound so angry, but I guess the frustration has been building for a while. 
See what three years as an under­graduate in the arts at Notre Dame will do to you? 
Beth Hoffmann senior Lyons Hall Sepr. 7. 2001 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
ca· us 
page 12 Monday, September 10, 2001 

Travel 101: learning to laugh 
Forget the stack of glossy travel guides for every country you might possibly visit over the next five months. Forget the year's supply of shampoo, the address book of people to whom you 'II never send post­card!J and the trendy fanny pack that will allow you to 

Laura Kelly 
French Connection 
choices. 

blend in oh-so-well with the natives. All you need to bring when you go abroad is a fat sense of humor. 
"Why?" you ask. Because everything that could go wrong eventually will. It's some sick version of Murphy's Law that takes over once you've crossed international waters. and when the airline has rerouted all of your luggage to Zimbabwe, the ATM machine has laughed at you as well as eaten your silly American debit card and your alleged landlord says, "Apartment? I no have apart­ment for you. But, I sell you watch?" you are faced with two 
You can curl up in the fetal position and lie in a gut­ter until some other American comes along and snaps a photo of you {"Look, honey, it's one of them gypsies that Ethel and Norm warned us about. Should we kick it?") or you can laugh long and hard about how you chose to put yourself in that situation. 
Being able to laugh at yourself is especially important when you have to deal with a language barrier. 
Example No. 1: the classic French mistake of thinking "excite" means excited. Nope. You end up telling the kid next to me on the plane that you're very "horny" about going to Paris, and then have to deal with his shifty eyes and repulsive attempts at pick-up lines for the next seven hours. Once you escape into the bath­room and consulted your handy dictionary, you have nothing to do but laugh. Laughing at yourself can ease the stress of new and difficult situations. 
Example No. 2: you don't realize picking your own fruit from produce stands is a huge no-no. and the gro­cer glares at you with pure hatred as you present him with your apple. You giggle nervously and throw the contents of your wallet at his feet in an effort to appease his wrath ... then you run. 
While a good sense of humor can often be to your advantage in trying to fit into another culture, you must also remember the cynical version of the adage your mother always told you: they're not laughing with you -they're really laughing at you. But don't let this deter you, because a smile. no matter how forced, is still the only thing that will keep you sane. 
Purely hypothetical example No. 3: while walking through a crowded street after enjoying a bit of the local wine, you turn to laugh at your friend's joke and walk smack into a street performer juggling fire, send­ing his hard-earned coins flying in all directions. Every local within five city blocks stops to point and guffaw. while you meekly scrounge for francs in the gutter and offer attempts at apology to the angry fire juggler whose life savings you've just scattered to the cobble­stones. 
Yet another example of a perfect time to laugh at your own mistakes ... and then run. 
Laura Kelly is a junior who hopes to major in French and English if she makes it back to the States in one piece. She has been laughing at her own dumb mistakes for several weeks and can be reached at l_kelly@nd.edu. French Connection will appear every Monday in Scene. The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

I 
Ill 


The timeless weight-gain offn 
By JACQUELINE BROWDER 
Scene Writer 

Sneak an extra brownie, order a midnight pizza or have one more beer to top off the night. And students wonder why they put on a few extra pounds when they go to college? This phe­nomenon, commonly known as the Freshman 15, refers to the weight-gain that many first­year students experience when they leave home. 
A recent study on the Freshman 15 at the University of Alabama (UA) at Tuscaloosa found that among 58 healthy freshmen, men stayed close to the same weight while women gained an average of four pounds when they go to college. 
"It is possible that some stu­dents just need to put on the weight as part of a maturing process," said Dr. Heli Hoy, an assistant professor of nutrition at the UA that led the study. "If that is so, then not gaining the 10 pounds would do the person a disservice. Some individuals may be 'late bloomers' in that they put on weight around hips and thighs at a little later than other girls." 
However, this maturation process is assisted by the typical college lifestyle. Odd sleeping patterns, late night snacking, alcohol and, the worst enemy of them all, an unlimited buffet in the dining hall can all con­tribute to weight gain. But if these are patterns that follow students through their college careers, why are freshmen the target of this phenomenon? 
A 1997 Duke University Medical Center study found that college freshmen often learn that studying more, exercising less and eating on the run means gaining a few extra pounds their first year away from home. Weight gain is fairly common for both men and w.omen going off to college, as fresh­men tend to start skip­ping meals when their schedules fill up and make exercising less of a priority. 

"So many students are so active in high school." said Kristina Pendley, assistant direc­tor of the Counseling Center at Saint Mary's. ..When they get to col­lege they begin to lead a more sedentary, less active lifestyle that can cause their body to change and adjust to this new lifestyle." 
Weight-gain can also be attributed to high levels of anxiety brought on by lifestyle changes and even stu­dents being homesick. 
"I think there is a small group of students that may respond in that manner," Hoy said. "People generally respond to stress in one of two ways: either they lose weight because they lose 

interest in food and 
Dining~
cannot eat, or they use food for comfort, they try toe, overeat, they overeat all the foods that they like and many times these are high fat. high sugar foods." 
College students are not alone in packing on the pounds. Studies conducted by the U.S. Centers for Disease Prevention and Control reveal that 17.9 percent of the popu­lation in 1998 was obese, which is defined as being more than 30 percent above ideal body weight. This marks a fair­ly substantial increase over the statistics from 1991 that indi­cated that only 12 percent of Americans were obese. 
However, the highest rise in obesity levels between 1991 and 1998 was found among the 18 to 29 year-old demographic, which increased from 7.1 per­cent to 12.1 percent. 
A 1998 Study at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology found that this col­lege-age demographic begins that with the Freshman 15 is. perhaps, the beginning of a longer struggle with personal health. Being away from home for the first time and away from parental advice on
... 

O
THE BSERVER 

Monday, September 10, 2001 
page 13 


' 


' 
res 



:shman year may strike again, but it doesn 't have to. 
A Life Uncommon, an on­There is no harm in being tional information and tips campus focus group that hungry every now and then from experts, gaining weight deals with women's issues, for a short while. But don't in college, especially for first said. "Your eating habits wait too long between meals year students, is almost change, you eat pizza along so that you get to a point unavoidable. Food is available with everyone else and you go where you are famished. That any time, anywhere and usu­running when you can fit it in encourages overeating. Try to ally at any event sponsored by your schedule. It's hard when eat every four to five hours. a University or College club. people aren't accepting of Don't cut your fat intake too A change in lifestyle is often that." low. If your fat intake is too accompanied by a change in 
Notre Dame University low. you will feel hungry appearance. Once settled into Health Services advises stu·­sooner and reach for more a regular pattern, however, dents, particularly freshmen, food sooner than if you it's easier to form healthy that the best way to combat include an adequate amount eating habits and find time to the Freshman 15 is to find a of fat in the diet, around 30 exercise. regular time to eat, to only percent of calories. So, it's okay to take that make one trip though the din­Most importantly, never eat extra brownie from the dining ing hall per visit and to eat to a point at which you feel hall or order pizza and bread­slowly. Health Services also uncomfortable. And make sticks with your roommates recommends that students sure you stay physically every once and a while. Just take the time to find their active to keep your body not all the time. "triggers," the situations that healthy .and to keep your generate urges to eat or drink appetite in check. Contact Jacqueline Browder at excessively. Doing so may Even with available nutri-jbrowder@nd.edu. help form healthier habits for college life. 
Saint Mary's encourages students to take advantage of a campus nutritionist, a reli­able source that offers free advice about healthy and moderate eating. The nutri­tionist is also available one day a week at Health Services. 
Hoy also has a few tips on how to stay fit and healthy during college. Hoy recom­mends eating foods that are as close to whole foods as possible, i.e., foods that have minimal processing, such as whole grain breads, fresh fruits, salads etc. These tend to provide more nutrients than their processed coun­
healthy eating and carefully want. terparts. And don't forget to monitored dinners has its College students can eat as drink milk. Most college stu­price. much as dents' bones are still grow­Students no they want ing and need calcium. longer have and often Roy doesn't recommend parents that do. Combine any type of "diet" in the pop­keep an eye "So many students are so this with a ular sense of the word on junk food lack of because they tend to not
active in high school.
consumption , nutritious work. If you gain weight, cut
When they get to college
and avoid eating and back on the number of times 
stocking the they begin to lead a more the high you cat (maybe you had one 
house with weight-gain too many snacks) and eat
sedentary lifestyle." 
unnecessary among this smaller portions. Hoy thinks goodies. demograph­that students should eat 
In college, Kristina Pendley ic suddenly everything. but control por­students can assistant director loses its tion sizes. There are no for­do their own · mystery. bidden foods. This minimizes
Saint Mary's Counseling Center 
g r o c e r y .. Life on the feeling of deprivation and shopping, campus is possible gorging. Generally, buy any sort just con­less is more. If you choose of food pre-ducive to smaller portions, you feel 
First-year students often make poor nutrition choices when
viously forbidden to them and· it," Amy Wodoslawsky, an off­better and maintain vour 
they are in the dining hall. Often times, they will skip meals or
devour as much of it as they campus senior and member of weight. · 
eat a disproportionate amount of junk food. 



Scene is looking for writers, copy editors and music or movie reviewers. Interested? E-mail scene@nd.edu or call 1-4540. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

tlS 

Monday, September 10, 2001 
page 14 

• 
; ' 
i \ 
r1s
oun
l:'. 



Shaheen Discovery Series presents Celtic concerts at SMC 
Kennedy said. es science at Reilly Junior High
By KATIE RAND 

The situation is very similar School.
& NATALIE BAILEY 

for his nephew and niece, Chris O'Brien played the fid­
Scene Writers 

Nolan and Tara. However. for dle and sang backup vocals. He Nolan, who started playing the has played in an old-time duo 
This fall, Saint Mary's is tin whistle at the age of 6 and with David James and in Pallas offering an exciting alternative began performing at 7, "it is with her husband John in addi­to the typical concerts held on just fun for now." tion to playing with Kennedy's campus. The Shaheen Autumn Rhodes, one of the Kitchen. Discovery Series is presenting lead musicians, recognizes the Finally, Joel Cooper, a singerfour concerts in this year's cultural value of her perfor• and composer who is currentlyCeltic Series. Kennedy's manees. She believes Irish the Director of Information Kitchen, an Irish band from music gives connection to a Technology at Carleton College,South Bend, had the honor of past. plays the bass for the group,opening the series Friday. "The music I play is a narra• and is known as "Michiana's 
"Through these concerts, we tive of Irish history," said favorite bass player." 
hope to introduce Irish music to Autumn. Through their music and the students as well as to the This story telling aspect is casual style, the band attempt­community and it is nice to quite evident within the reper• ed to communicate their con­start with a local band," Lisa toire of Kennedy's Kitchen, nection with Ireland to the Peppers, Assistant Director of which is comprised of lively audience. For Christina Student Activities at Saint jigs, sedate instrumentals, rev­Holdvogt, a student at Saint Mary's, said. erent folk songs and impressive Mary's College, the music Kennedy's Kitchen formed solos that often pay tribute to brought a "remembrance of 
four years ago around Irish the hardships of their ances­studying abroad." For other family tradition. Their music tors. Band members wrote an audience members, like Alyssa was a pleasing choice for the additional four verses to the Blair, the band made Irish cul­opening act. The band pos­song "Immigrant Eyes", person­ture and heritage appealing. sessed a smooth blend of a alizing the message of the "Their music just made me variety of sounds essential in lyrics. Nolan and Autumn, two want to be Irish!" Celtic and Irish music. They of Kennedy's former pupils, The band can also be found at created an impressive mixture performed several of the solos. Lula's Cafe in South Bend every of felicitous, relaxing and lively "As Nolan plays, I can close my Monday, where they offer ses­sounds. But most impressive eyes and just feel that I am in sions of traditional Irish music. was the composition of the Ireland," Kennedy said. A subscription for the band itself. Playing the mandolin, banjo, rema1n1ng three Shaheen 

John Kennedy, the founder of guitar, mandola and singing, is Discovery Series consisting of 
Kennedy's Kitchen, described Jim Bradberry, founder and four concerts in the Celtic the group as, "A bunch of old owner of Mr. Bradberry's Violin Series (Dervish on Sept., 28, guys hanging out with young Shop. His musical career Colcannon on Oct., 9 and The talent." began by playing on the back Baltimore Consort on Nov., 10) 
Three of the eight performers porch with his family and with can be purchased for $36 for are· 16 or younger, including Jericho and TD Davis in the adults or $24 for students. their featured musician. The 70s. Jim enjoys playing blue­For subscription or single young band members are: 16-grass, country, Bulgarian and, ticket orders, call or visit the year-old Autumn Rhodes, an of course, Irish music. Saint Mary's box office located award winning flute and tin Bob Harkie, who provides in the O'Laughlin Auditorium whistle musician, 12-year-old guitar and vocals for the group, lobby, Monday through Friday Nolan Ladewski, another tin started off playing old-time from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. or call whistle musician and Tara country. On a trip to Ireland (219) 284-4626. Ladewski, an Irish dancer and with his wife, he fell in love vocalist. with the music of Paddy Reilly, Contact Katie Rand at 

"The decision to play Irish which sparked his interest in rand8903@saintmarys.edumusic was made for me; it is playing traditional Irish music. or Natalie Bailey at something that I grew up with," Bob is a songwriter who teach• ha.ill407@sa.intmarys.ec1u. 




I' 
t. 
LIZ GAYDOS/The Observer 
Kennedy's Kitchen, a local South Bend Irish band, opened the Shaheen discovery Concert Series at Saint Mary's. The band plays traditional Irish folk music. 
• 

Monday, September 10, 2001 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Gamecocks seal up crucial victory on the road 
Associated Press 
ATHENS, Ga. 

South Carolina might have set­tled for a field goal. Brian Scott wanted the Gamecocks to throw his way instead. 
So he 
matte  his  
case  to  
coach  Lou  

Holtz. "I can beat him. I can beat him," Scott pleaded. 
Beat him 


he did. Scott Holtz caught a 16­yard touchdown pass from Phil Petty with 1:22 remaining, rip­ping the ball away from Georgia cornerback Bruce Thornton to give No. 21 South Carolina a key 14-9 road victory over the Bulldogs (No. 24 ESPN/USA Today, No. 25 AP) on Saturday night. 
"I just reacted to it," Scott said. "Phil threw the ball and I had to go get it." 
Billy Bennett's third field goal, a 27-yarder with 3:17 remain­ing, pushed Georgia to its first lead of the game at 9-7. 
But the Gamecocks (2-0, 1-0 SEC) drove 66 yards in nine plays to earn the first prominent road victory of Holtz's three-year tenure. ' 
"This is a real big win," Scott said. "Coach stresses to us that all great teams have to win on the road. To have a great sea­son, we had to come in here and beat Georgia." 
The Bulldogs (1-1, 0-1) couldn't stop Petty on three straight third-and-10 plays. He threw to Ryan Brewer for 19 yards and freshman Matthew Thomas for another 32 to reach the Bulldogs 16. 
After two straight plays failed to gain and Georgia expecting the Gamecocks to settle for a field-goal try, Petty threw toward Scott at the goal line. 
The 6-foot-3 senior leaped shoulder-to-shoulder with the 5­11 Thornton, wrestling the ball away to turn a possible intercep­tion into the winning score. 
Oregon 24, Utah 10 
Joey Harrington is edging into the Oregon record books early in the season, but one of the most important numbers for the quar­terback Saturday was a big, fat zero. 
Joey Harrington did not throw a single interception in Oregon's (No. 8 ESPN/USA Today, No. 7 AP) 24-10 victory over Utah, and he ended up completing 17 of 27 passes for 220 yards and two touchdowns. 
The scoring passes, both to Keenan Howry, put Harrington in a tie with Dan Fouts for career touchdown passes at 37. But Harrington still has nine games to play for the Ducks, who are campaigning hard for a Heisman Trophy for him. 
The 6-foot-4 senior had criti­cized himself for throwing two interceptions last week in a 31­28 comeback victory in the sea­son opener against Wisconsin, a team that intercepted him three times to beat the Ducks last year. 
Against Utah, Harrington kept his air game under careful con­trol, hitting his targets precisely -including the 25-and 14-yard touchdown passes to Howry ­both in heavy defensive traffic. 
Florida 29, 

Alabama-Birmingham 7 
Florida State coach Bobby Bowden noted that quarterback Chris Rix had better luck in his second collegiate start than Chris Wfdnke did three years ago. 
Rix passed for a touchdown, somersaulted for another and set up three more scores as the Seminoles (No. 5 ESPN/USA Today, No. 6 AP) beat Alabama­Birmingham Saturday night. 
"It was not bad for a rookie quarterback," Bowden said. 
Weinke, who makes his debut Sunday as a starter with the Carolina Panthers, was inter­cepted six times in his second game. game as Florida State's quarter­"I like the fact that we won, back in 1998 when Florida State but I didn't like the fact that we was upset 24-7 at North Carolina didn't play very well," Snyder State. said after the Wildcats opened 
However, Weinke went on to their season Saturday with a 10­lead Florida State to three 6 victory in their first game ever straight national championship against USC. "There was no cele­games and won the Heisman bration. Our players understand Trophy last year. that this is only a foundation. 
"Rix real-We're a team ly made without an iden­
s o m e "/ like the fact that we tity and we're plays," won, but I didn't like the building one." 
Bowden But he also
Jact that we didn't play
said. said, "A win on Rix gave very well.,, the road is a t h e plus, especially Seminoles against a quality
Bill Snyder

a 13-0 lead team like USC."
Kansas State head coach
with just Although Josh over six Scobey rushed minutes left for 165 yards in the half when he scored on a and quarterback Ell Roberson spectacular 2-yard forward flip. ran for 119, guard Nick Leckey 
The redshirt freshman quar­scored Kansas State's touch­terback tried to hurdle into the down when he recovered end zone and was hit as he went Scobey's fumble into the end airborne, doing a 360-degree flip zone in the second quarter. and landing on his feet for the Jared Brite's 41-yard field goal score. in the first quarter provided 
Kansas State's other score as the 
Wildcats built a 10-0 halftime
Kansas State 10, USC 6 
lead and barely held on.
Bill Snyder's 100th coaching Meanwhile, David Davisvictory at Kansas State didn't missed a 42-yard field goal try in come easy, with the Wildcats 
the second quarter and had his(No. 11 ESPN/USA Today, No. 12 
PAT attempt blocked after
AP) helped by a lucky bounce in 
Sultan McCullough's 7-yard
the end zone and breakdowns in touchdown run for USC (1-1) inSouthern California's kicking the third. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. A1 classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
RESPONSIBLE, QUALITY CHILD­CARE NEEDED 
LOST AND FOUND in my home for 3 year old & 7 month old. Monday thru Thursday 
2:30 pm -5 pm. 
1 Saturday a month. LOST WHITE GOLD NUGGET Own transportation required. NECKLACE. 5 mins from ND. PROBABLY NEAR REGINA HALL Major in early childhood develop-AT SAINT MARY'S. ment or child psychology a plus. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. References required. THIS IS INSURED SO WE WILL Call 288-6795. BE PIO IF NOT SURRENDERED. 
BUT WE WANT IT BACK, PLEASE. LOVE KIDS? WANT TO EARN GOOD$$ CALL 765-659-4928. BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS HANDSOME REWARD. A WEEK? NO QUESTIONS ASKED 
Area family needs individual to care Lost High School Class Ring for our two daughters Mon-Fri from Chillicothe High School 3-6pm starting mid-Sept. Mom Jessica inscribed on the inside attends grad school in Chicago. Please return! Girlfriend will kill me Girls are tun and delightful! 
Transportation needed. Please call 634-3580 Generous pay! If interested, please call Karen Lost a silver bracelet possibly in Stonehill at 272-5013. 
South Quad directly outside Dillon Hall's front door. ON CALL BABYSITTER NEEDED. 
ROOMMATE WANTED: Campus View Apartments Private bedroom & PRIVATE BATHROOM!!! Large kitchen. Free parking. $282.5/month. Contact me at quw@nd.edu. Emergency call: 219-243•2383 
PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal shelter just 10 min from campus, urgently needs FOSTERS and VOLUNTEERS for its cats and dogs. Please e-mail webmaster@petre­luge.com, visit www.petrefuge.com, or call 256-0886. 
IN-HOME NANNY needed to care for infant Must have transportation. Experience with infants and refer­ences required. Congact Dr. Knoedler at 631-4262 or aknoedle@nd.edu. 
Seeking student for part time repre­sentation on campus tor screen print & embroidery company Flex hrs and flex pay. Call Dave at 800­813-2113. 
SEEKING STUDENT FOR PART TIME REPRESENTATION ON CAMPUS FOR SCREEN PRINT & EMBROIDERY COMPANY. FLEX HOURS & FLEX PAY. CALL DAVE AT 800-813-2113. 
Seeking part-time Daycare provider for two children. Granger area. Own transportation required. References. Call 277 -1622. 
STUDENT WORK $14.05 Base-appt Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust. svc./sales positions (5-20 hrs) Flex around classes. Scholarships. Cond. apply www.workforstudents.com/np call M-W 12-5 pm 282·2357 
ND prof seeks reliable person for daytime babysitting of 2-yr-old on MW 8:30 am-12:30 pm. Generous rates. Well-behaved child. Transp. req'd. (5 min. from ND). 288-41 70 or kbaldwin@nd edu B&B NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX 4 rooms for N.D. football. FOR SALE 3 miles from N.D. Best location. AM. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 
287-4545 

ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. Spacious 4 bdrm, 2-story on private 232-0964 
lane in Farmington Square. 2737 SF+ professionally finsihed base-GA Tix 4 Pitt gm 271-1654 
ment. Call Jack at 280-7730. Century 21 Jim Dunfree Realty. Buying some I Selling a few extra 
N.D. Football Tickets 219-289­8048 
FOR SALE 

A businessman needs football sea­son tickets *GAs only* Will buy Beautiful brass bed, queen size, individual games 277-1659 
with orthopedic mattress set. All new, never used, still in plastic. Wanted: 4-6 tickets for USC. Seats $235. 219-862-2082. do not have to be together. Call 
Nicole 233-8513 

60x30 desk 60x30x72 desk + office chairs. 287-3373 ask for Cindy. For Sale Navy, WVA, Pitt, GAS 654­0168 
Gently used loveseat + chair. Taupe w/ muted pinstripes; wood $$ NEED 8 TIX 4 WVU trim -"Broyhill" $150 67 4-6150 915-241-5999 
Futon w/solid wood frame $500. ND-PURDUE football tix for sale. Krups cappucino & coffee maker Cheap! $70. Sony cordless phone & AM -232-2378 
Bracelet has a gold plate with the NEAR ND. FOR DETAILS CALL 
inscription "T J 1999 LIV.· If found, 273-2872. 
please call 4-0951 and leave a 
message for T J. WANTED: 
Highly organized, experienced legal secretary or assistant to Pl trial 
REWARD over $50. lawyer for new, spacious offices next to Notre Dame campus; hours flexible; competitive pay and bene­fits.
WANTED 
Call 231-1868 and leave message. 
Sitter wanted by professor for two ROOMMATE WANTED: boys (7& 10) some evenings and 
late afternoons. Looking for a male or female Constable.1@nd.edu or 234-9597 roommate for house off-campus Wanted by elderly couple a respon­at 822 N. Francis St. sible man or woman graduate stu-Close to campus. dent to drive our car for errands or 
short drives from our home in ND neighborhood. Wages per hour If interested, call 288-8249 negotiable. 288-007 4 
WANTED:  
Seeking part-time Daycare provider for two children. Granger area. Own transportation required, References.  Assistant to trial layer with desktop publishing skills for new spacious offices next to Notre Dame campus; part-time or flexible hours; competi• live hourly wage.  
Call 277-1622.  Call 231-1868 and leave message.  

After school care for two children, 3 pm -5:30 pm. Good pay! Please call Lisa 631-9947 or 277 ·8564. 
Looking tor someone to care for/play with my 4 & 6 year old boys while I work in home office. 3-5 hours per week -flexible. 5 miles from campus. Tricia 232-1285 
Looking for a female English tutor for Japanese native girl aged 8 in Granger. Twice a week $40 (1 hour each some time between 4 to 7 pm). Contact Yoshi at 219-654­1219 
Mom's helper. Seek student to help with twins 10­20 hrs/moth. Good pay. Full description available by e-mail request: JennyLack@aol.com 
Babysitter(s): non-smoker, playful, responsible. Needed for various limes: Mon & Th. Fternoons (12-5), Sat. nights. Girl 3, Boy 5. In Granger. 273-9476 
ans~ring machine $30.  PM -288-2726  
FOR RENT  277-0666.  
LOUD 3-way speakers. 125 w. ea. 12• drivers. $250 obo/pari. Call  PERSONAL  
This terrific one bedroom condo in  Mike 4-4695  
Woodbridge Condominiums is close  SENIORS:  
enough to walk to ND. Why rent?  '88 GMC pikcup truck. Looks good,  Senior Portraits taken until Sept.  
Own this for $62,900! Cobntact  runs great. Call Mark at 273-0449.  21 . Sign up now @  
Prudential One Realty or Cherie  www.Laurenstudios.com while  
TeRoller at 284-2600.  Canon Bubble Jet 4200 printer.  there is still space available.  
$100  
Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold  288-4241  HeyScammo- 
Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR,  This one's for you. Be safe, please!  
DR & kitchen w/ appliances. 1 car  
garage. $69,000.  TICKETS  Mrrr! Shout out to 5th floor ... I'm a  
Call Doris at 254-1772 for more  champion.  
info.  
BUY-SELL  Ya'II don't know Jack.  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  
Breakfast Inn has space available  277-6619  Moo Butt Moo  
for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  
with private baths, $80-$115,  GA's 4 USC, MSU, TN, WVA 271·  It's not a brownie, it's a yellowie  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  1654  
Toll Road Exit #107.  Mod Quad -today is the first day of  
1-800-418-9487  five a day week! Odown and 35 to  
WANTED-ND TICKETS 289-9280  go!  
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­ 
PUS  ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  Of sixes -only five days of class  
mmmrentals.com  AM. 232-2378  before we can go out and party like  
email: mmmrentals@aol.com  P.M. 288-2726  rockstars again!  

~.,-------------:-----------~~--~---~-------"""'!"'""--~------------!~---------.... 
[, 
I! 
t\ 
page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September I 0, 2001 
I 

careerra1r


,· 
I 
thursday

september 13 
6:00 pm -8:30 pm 
Undergraduate seniors, second-year MBAs, MS in Accountancy students (attire is business formal) 
friday

se~ember14 
9:30 am-3:30 pm 
All .students regardless of degree, major, college, or year (attire is business casual) 
joyce center north dome 
(hockey rink side), enter gate 3 
findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating companies, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to "careercenter.nd.edu" 

• 
Click on the "Go !RISH" title bar and enter username and password 

• 
Click "Jobs" and then "Find Employers" 

• 
Scroll to and click on "Advanced Search" 

• 
Scroll to Career Center Events, click on "College of Business Career Fair;' click on "Search" 



THE 
CAREER 

Univers.ity ofNotre Dame 
Mendoza College of Business CENTER 
participating 8 
AAR Abbott Laboratories ABN AMRQ/LaSalle Bank Accenture ACNielsen ACNielsen BASES, US Allegiance Healthcare 
Corporation Alta Pharmaceuticals (a division of Pfizer) American Express Financial Advisors Ameritech/SBC Global 
Network Andersen AON Corporation Applied Systems, Inc. AT&T Bain & Company Bank One Corporation Baxter Healthcare Corporation BDO Seidman Bloomberg Financial Markets Boston Consulting Group BP Oil Company California Franchise Tax Board Carson Pirie Scott & Co. Central Intelligence Agency Chicago Consulting Actuaries Citigroup Corporate and 
Investment Bank/Salomon Smith Barney Clarity Consulting Cochran, Caronia & Company Comerica Bank Crowe Chizek Dain Rauscher Wessels Davis Conder Enderle & Sloan Defense Finance and Accounting Service Deloitte & Touche Deloitte Consulting DePuy (a Johnson & Johnson Company) Driehaus Capital Management E & J Gallo Winery Eli Lilly & Company Enterprise Rent-A-Car Ernst & Young Factset Research Systems FBOP Corporation Fifth Third Bank General Electric General Mills Gibson and Associates Goldman, Sachs & Co. Great West Life Headstrong HEB Grocery Company Honeywell 
IBM Corporation 
lnteCap 
3 

Janssen Pharmaceutica (a Johnson &Johnson Company) ..,-. Johnson & Johnson W Jordan & Jordan 
DJ 

Keane Consulting Group 
11111111

(formerly Bricker -,J/1 & Associates) -• Kmart KPMG Kraft 
I 

Liberty Mutual Life Investors Lincoln Partners Lutron Electronics Co. Marriott Vacation Club Mass Mutual Insurance May Department Stores 
Company Men's Wearhouse Morgan Stanley National City Corporation News America Marketing Northwestern Mutual 
Financial Network -Hoopis Group Oak Brook Bank 
Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical (a Johnson & Johnson ·company) 
Peterson Consulting/Navigant Pfizer PNC Financial Services PrkewaterhouseCoopers Primerica/Citig rou p Procter & Gamble Company Quad/Graphics Robert W. Baird & Company SEI Investments Corporation Smart & Associates Spear, Leeds & Kellogg Stout Risius Ross, Inc. Strong Capital Management Susquehanna International 
Group Target Teach for America Technology Services Group Towers Perrin Travelers Insurance UBS Warburg ULINE UnumProvident The Vanguard Group VW Credit Watson Wyatt Worldwide Wells Fargo Bank William Blair & Company William M. Mercer 
r 
·.i:_ Monday, September I 0, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS
l· 
t ii-.,. 
·t . MEN'S GOLF 
Freshman wins campus title 

Special to The Observer 
Freshman Steve Colnitis got his collegiate golf career off to a strong start as he fired a final round 73 for a 72-hole total of 292 to capture the Notre Dame men's campus golf champi­onship by two strokes over sophomore Gavin Ferlic on Sunday afternoon at the Warren Golf Course. 
Colnitis and Ferlic went into the final round of play tied for first with 219 totals after the first 54 holes. Ferlic closed with 75 for his final round and a 294 total. 
Seniors Kevin Ricci and Chris Whitten had the two best rounds of the day with 71 and 72 respectively to finish tied for third with 72-hole totals of 295, three strokes behind Colnitis. 
"This is a great thrill for me to win this as a freshman and it really means a lot to me to start my college career this way," Colnitis said. ''I was really ner­vous over the last four holes when I realized that I had a chance to win it." 
Ricci had a strong weekend with rounds of 72 and 71 to move into third. A week ago he had rounds of 75 and 77 to open the tournament. 
Whitten, who was the first 
• 
produced by ProShow and Celebrated Events 
september 23""'?no1 t
Lentury cen er 
12:00 -5:00 pm General admission, $5 per person at the door 
10:00 am -5:00 pm VIP admission, $15 per person, advance sale only; includes luncheon with food stations and strolling fashion show 
reaister to win! 
a honeymoon package sponsored t?y Premier Travel a Superclubs honeymoon package sponsored by Travelmore 
contact 

Jessica at ProShow, 271-7469 for VIP tickets and more information 

THE SEMINAR 

round leader with an opening 73, had a solid tournament with rounds of 73, 76, 74 and 72 for his 295. 
Colnitis struggled off the tee all afternoon, but made some great saves throughout the day to keep pace with Ferlic. 
"I made some good shots on six, seven and 12 where I was able to punch out of trouble and then made some long pars.," Colnitis explained. "After 12, I started to play bet­ter. I knew I had a good chance to win it on 17 when I went dri­ver-seven iron to within two feet. That gave me confidence going into 18." 
Notre Dame's top returning golfer, junior Steve Ratay fin­ished fifth with a 72-hole total of 297. Ratay, who led after two rounds with a pair of 73's fin­ished with rounds of 75 and 76. 
Rounding out the top 10 golfers in the men's champi­onship behind Ratay were freshman K.C. Wiseman, who was sixth with a 301; William Mccaughan, who finished sev­enth with a 304; junior Brandon Lunke, who shot a 72­hole total of 306 for an eighth place finish; Fernando Herrera, ninth with a 314 total and Andy Vit, 10th with a 316 mark. 
The men's golf team, under new head coach John Jasinski, will now prepare for its season opening tournament this com­ing weekend, Saturday and Sunday. when they play in the Northern Intercollegiate Tournament at the Finkbine Golf Course in Iowa City, Iowa. 
• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia, October 21-27, 2001 

• 
One credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to appply as Site Coordinators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 


The Appalachia Seminar during Fall and Spring break presents a unique service­learning opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites in Appalachia which focus on issues concerning rural health care, the environment, women, children, and housing construction. Through hands on work and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the Appalachian people. 
APPLICATIONS 
Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Wednesday, September 12 by 10 p.m. $40 deposit with application (non-refundable if accepted) Apply online at http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/OnlineApps/ APLearning.htm 
FURTHER INFORMATION 
Ben Powers, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 634-1147 Carl Loesch, Seminar Director, 631-3175 Center for Social Concerns, 631-5293 
page 17 

NFL 
Knight's interceptions lead to Saints' victory 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 

Safety Sammy Knight matched a franchise record with three interceptions, two of which led to 10 points, jump-starting the Saints to a 24-6 victory over the Buffalo Bills on Sunday. 
Thanks to Knight, the Saints overcame a 6-0 first-half deficit by scoring 17 points in the first 12 minutes of the third quarter. 
Brooks bounced back from an abysmal first-half performance, completing 18 of 29 attempts and three touchdowns as the Saints won a season opener for only the 10th time in 35 years. 
The new-look Bills, on the other hand, still have plenty of work to do, losing in rookie head coach Gregg Williams' debut . 
While Buffalo's newly installed 4-3 defense held firm, quarter­back Rob Johnson looked unset­tled running the new West Coast offensive scheme. 
Johnson finished 16-for-27 for 160 yards and threw three inter­ceptions for the first time in his career. Johnson also failed to capitalize on two trips inside the Saints 15, settling instead for Jake Arians' two field goals. 
Raiders 27, Chiefs 24 
Quarterback Rich Gannon ral­lied Oakland for 10 points in the final 3:10, including Sebastian Janikowski's 31-yard field goal with 15 seconds to go in the Raiders' victory. 
Gannon overcame two fumbles and an interception that was returned for a touchdown to improve his record to 4-1 against the Chiefs since leaving Kansas City to join the Raiders. 
Gannon gave the Raiders a 24­17 lead with 3:10 left on a 15­yard touchdown pass to Jon Ritchie. 
Then, after Trent Green's 30­yard touchdown pass to Marvin Minnnis tied it at 24, Gannon's 31-yard pass to Tim Brown set up Janikowski's fourth field goal 
It was not a game the NFL will use to brag about replacement refs. Several times there was confusion, and a controversial reversal near the end of the first half might have cost the Raiders. 
Buccaneers 10, Cowboys 6 
Brad Johnson led a series of long, slow drives, yet produced only one late touchdown. forcing the Tampa Bay defense to hold on for a victory over Dallas. 
Johnson teased Tampa fans into thinking their offensive woes were gone by completing his first nine passes and driving the Bucs to a field goal on their opening series. 
Although Johnson remained steady, the offense failed to reach the end zone until he dove in from the 1 early in the fourth quarter. 
Tampa's defense, well rested thanks to Johnson's clock-eating possessions, harassed Dallas rookie quarterback Quincy Carter into plenty of first-timer's mistakes and limited Emmitt Smith's running room. 
But the Cowboys led 6-3 going into the fourth quarter and had two potential go-ahead drives in the final minutes. 
Dallas reached the Tampa Bay 30 the first time, only to go back­ward 11 yards. After forcing a Tampa Bay punt, Dallas took over again at the 39, but moved only one yard closer. On fourth down, Carter was intercepted by John Lynch at the 14 with 1:17 left. 
The Collefe Football Hall ofFame Presents the 
MICHIGAN STATE 
·N~~RI~~­RIVALRIES BANO!}ET 
Featured Speakers -Bubba Smith & Bob Gladieux Thursday, September 20 at the College Football Hall of Fame 
Come celebrate one of the greatest matchups in college football on the 35th anniversary of the historic 1966 MSU-ND game. Featured speaker Bubba Smith, and others, will reflect upon their memories of this ferocious rivalry that dates back to 1897. 
Order tickets by phone at 235-5715 or in person at the Hall of Fame ticket counter. The banquet starts at 6:00 p.m. with a cocktail reception followed by dinner at 7:00 p.m. in the Press Box at the College Football Hall of Fame. 
Cost: $50.00 per person. 
Space is very limited. Call for tickets today! 

111 S. St. Joseph Street South Bend, IN %601 
www.collefefootball.orf 




Monday, September 10, 2001 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Bonds hits 3 home runs to reach 63 
Associated Press 
DENVER Barry Bonds hit three home runs in San Francisco's 9-4 win 

' 
l 
over Colorado Sunday to give him 63 for the season, passingI Roger Maris' once-magical mark and moving him closer to l Mark McGwire's record. Playing at Coors Field, Bonds broke Maris' record of 61 for
l 
I} l 
I 
most homers in a season by a left-handed hitter. 
Bonds has 18 games left to 
break McGwire's record of 70 
set in 1998. 
After an off-day Monday, Bonds and the San Francisco Giants begin a series at Houston's homer-friendly Enron Field. 
Bonds hit No. 61 in the first inning to match Maris' then­major league record 61 homers for the New York Yankees in 1961. Bonds broke the mark with No. 62 in the fifth. 
Bonds added a three-run homer in the 11th off Colorado· reliever Todd Belitz. 
Bonds also became the fastest to reach 62 homers, doing it in his 144th game. Mark McGwire needed 145 games to reach 62 when he broke Maris' record by hitting 70 homers in 1998. 


In the first, on a 1-1 count,· Bonds launched a 488-foot solo shot off Colorado's Scott Elarton. Bonds' soaring drive struck a beer sign beyond the center-field wall. 
It was the third-longest homer in Coors Field history, exceeded only by a 496-foot shot by Mike Piazza and a 493­footer by Larry Walker. 
In the fifth, Bonds lined a 2-2 pitch from Elarton that just cleared the right-field wall. 


Bonds struck out looking in the third. He had gone homer­less on Friday and Saturday. 
Braves 9, Cubs 5 
Atlanta left fielder B.J. Surhoff homered, doubled twice and drove in four runs Sunday to lead the Braves to a rain-delayed win over the slumping Chicago Cubs and a 

I 
:! 
I 
I 9-BALL ', 


BILLIARD '» 
TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY. SE:P I. 14 B:30pn, 
at 
ND EXPRESS 
Lower Level., LaFortune
f 

Sign up in ND EXPRESS beginning Monday. Sept. 10. Limited to 32 people. 
three-game Wrigley Field sweep. 
Atlanta scored six of their runs with two outs. The Braves stayed 3 1/2 games ahead of the Phillies in the NL East. 
Surhoff and Andruw Jones hit back-to-back homers in the first inning off Jason Bere. 
Marcus Giles also homered for the Braves, while collecting a career-high four hits. In the three-game series, he was 8­for-15. 
Now the Braves return home to face the Phillies. 
Sammy Sosa hit his 54th homer for Chicago and Matt Stairs added a three-run shot, but the Cubs lost their fifth straight. 
They trail Houston by 6 1/2 games in the NL Central and are two games behind wild card leader San Francisco for the last playoff spot. 
Phillies 12, Expos 4 
Johnny Estrada hit an RBI double to begin a six-run fifth inning and drew a bases-loaded walk to cap the burst, leading Philadelphia over Montreal. 
Scott Rolen had four RBI, including a three-run double in the seventh. 
Philadelphia began the day 3 1/2 games behind Atlanta in the NL East. The Phillies are off Monday, then begin a three­game series against the Braves at Turner Field on Tuesday night. 
Seven of Philadelphia's next 10 games are against the Braves. 
The Phillies overcame a three-run deficit by scoring 11 times in three innings to win three of four in Montreal after losing seven of eight. 
Cliff Politte (2-2) allowed one hit in 2 1/3 innings in relief of Omar Daal, who left after giv­ing up four runs in four innings. 
Tony Armas Jr. allowed one hit, Rollins' RBI single in the third, before leaving the game in the bottom half of the inning with a strained muscle in his left lower back. 





Would you lilfe to prepare for Confirmation with other Notre Dame students who are dedicated to growing in their faith? 
It's not too late to join the Confirmation Preparation Program! 

Room 330 Coleman-Morse 
I 

on Tuesday, Sept. 11th I at 8:00 pm 
For more info: Fr. John Conley, CSC or Katie Hainley at 631-3390 or stop by the Office of Can1pus Ministry 
i in the Coleman-Morse Center with any questions. CM 
Campus Ministry 


Monday, September 10, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Alma. points, leaving the Flying Albion and Hope, last year's Dutch in fourth place. 
Golf 
first and second place finish­It was a young team that led 
continued from page 24 ers in the MIAA, did not fare the Belles to their victory. Two as well as expected. Albion freshmen, a sophomore and a finished in third place, six junior took home the top four 
ments. A team score of 349 points behind Saint Mary's, places for the Belles. as all 
topped second place finisher while Hope totalled 12 more four finished in the top 10 for 

M@mruE IID~IE illccrrill!iro SEASONS WANTED INDIVIDUAL GAMES 
Preferred Tickets 

Happy Birthday Katie! 
We're cheering for you.. 
18111 THI 111141~ 4N9 •ttlH IN! 
The University Libraries are offering tours to new Notre Dame students. By participating in a 1/2 hour tour of the Hesburgh Library, you will have a chance to win a $50.00 gift certificate at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
F9111 WINNINC 11•11111 WIii II 
91.tWNJ  
No pre-registration is necessary.  •11 191181  
Each tour will highlight the  AIII IN THI  
availableresources, services  1111•aY  

and collections within the University teNtellBII Ubraries of Notre Dame. 
TOUR TIMES AND DATES Tuesday, Sept. 11, 2001 4:30pm Wednesday, Sept. 12, 2001 4:30pm Tuesday, Sept. 18, 2001, 4:30pm Wednesday, Sept. 19, 2001 4:30pm 

the tournament. 
Junior .Molly Lee led the charge with a score of 85 that gave her a third place finish overall in the tournament. Joining Lee were freshmen Julia Adams and Stefanie Simmerman and sophomore Liz Hanlon. 
Adams low score of 87 gave her a seventh place finish, fol­lowed by Simmerman in eighth place with 88 and Hanlon in ninth place with a score of 89. 
Senior Mary Claire Hathoway scored 87, but was playing as an individual and not as a top five member of the team, so her score did not contribute to the team total. 
Adams and Simmerman already showed potential last weekend in the Ferris State Invitational, where Simmerman took 11th place overall in the 17-team field. 
Last year's MIAA MVP and a NCAA second-team All American. Lacey Wickman of Hope, finished in second place, only two points lower than Saint Mary's Lee. Although the Belles have been working all season on all aspects of their game, a· recent focus on the short game seems to have played a part in Saturday's victory. 
"We do work very hard on the short game and that will continue to be a goal of ours," Pekarek said. "[The short game] did help; our putting has improved a great deal." 
But the short game wasn't the end of what worked on Saturday. 
It was a game-long effort that focused each player on every shot that really put the Belles over the top. 
"I think where the team has improved greatly is that we're playing much smarter ball," Pekarek said. "When they get on the golf course they play much more strategically ... They're using very good course management." 
The Belles will have to put that course management to the test next week, as they tee off in another MIAA tourna­ment at Albion College Sept. 18. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


---------------------------------------------------,I 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September I0, 2001 


) 
I 
1
rI I 
/ { 
' I 
c f 
'i_ t' 
·: ~4 
u
(i' i 
p
H 
( 
( 
fI
·. i 
I 
? 
< 
< 
t 
,' j 
I i 
I {
u 
. , ' < 
! / 
i ( 
! \ p I 
'. i 
C: I 
: < 
: ! 
u 
x, '.·} 
{ 
,: ~ 
.. 
. i <.' I 
q c,.,l, 
all scored eight kills for the Irish. Kreher, the Big East preseason
Volleyball 
player of the year, takes pride in the balanced scoring attack. 
continued from page 24 "I think we can count on more 

than one or two people to getthe Joyce Center (15-3, 15-9, 15-kills for us," Kreher said. "We 12}. have five great hitters on our 
"They competed much better team, we can count on all five of today than they did a year ago," us at one time to get a kill." 
Cook said. "I think a year ago On Sunday, the Irish bad luck they were flustered or over­from the previous night's foot­whelmed. I think they were ball game carried from much better mentally prepared Memorial Stadium to the arena to play us. I thought they gave a next door. The Waves came out great effort." strong in game one, leading 16-9 The Irish played well in before two kills from Goralski 
Friday's match against the · and consecutive Kreher aces cut Bruins but failed to pull out a the lead to 18-15. But another win in any of the three games. In Waves scoring streak put the game one, a Kim Fletcher kill game in their hands. Game two gave the Irish a 28-27 lead. But started close, the score knotted UCLA rallied behind All­16-16, until a Wave kill streak American Kristee Porter's play broke the game open. Waves to reel off three consecutive middle blocker Katie Wilkins put points and take the match. the game away with four kills. 
In game two. Notre Dame led In game three, Wilkins scored ·14-12 before falling behind. In four more kills late and the the final game, Porter scored Waves swept the match. 
three consecutive points to break 
open the match and end Notre 
Contact Noah Amstadter at 
Dame's day.. Fletcher, senior 
amstadter. l@nd.edu. 
Marcia Bomhack and Goralski 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Freshmen gain experience at Lake Michigan 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Edi~or 
Experience is something that's hard to come by as a freshman, but this weekend experience is just what the freshmen Belles got. 
After being invited to a junior college tournament that could not be counted as part of the regular season, head coach Julie Schroeder-Bick decided that she would get her eight first-year players some much needed experience that would lead to game confidence. 
"I think confidence was gained," she said. "[The players] got on the court, they did well when they played ... I want them to carry that over to the varsity matches." 
Because all three games counted as scrimmages, the Belles' 1-2 record wasn't the focus at the end of the weekend. Finding out what the freshmen could and could not do was. 
"They had excellent communi­cation," Schroeder-Bick said. "They worked together as a group very well and I thought everyone contributed their tal­ents." 
The freshmen seemed to have good teamwork, but Schroeder­Biek will be looking to improve technical skills. 
"I saw little technique things, blocking technique is not crisp, footwork is not crisp -things that are correctable with hard work," she said. "There were some definite errors that occurred because of experience that will be corrected as they gain experience." 
That needed experience may come during Tuesday's match against Calvin. During last Wednesday's game, middle hit­ter Jolie LeBeau was injured and her status is still unknown. Schroeder-Biek used Friday night as a trial period for some possible substitutes should LeBeau be unable to play Tuesday. 
NOW LEASING FOR 2002·20W DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 
2.4,5,6,7.8,9 & 10 BEDROOM HOUSES STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS SECURITY SYSTEMS WASHER & DRYERS 
DOMUS PROPERTIES CONTACT KRAMER 291-91173, 234-2436, OR 674-2571 

·Tm going to play it by ear to third match, however, the team see how Jolie [LeBeau] is came close to a victory. doing," she said. "But I feel "We just missed beating more confident seeing how the [Terra] in that last [match]." [freshmen] played." Schroeder-Biek said. 
The Belles dropped their first The Belles were not about to match to Vincennes in two leave without at least one victo­games, 30-28, 30-17. In match ry, however. After dropping the two against Terra College, Saint first game to host Lake Mary's came from behind to win Michigan, Saint Mary's came the first match 31-29 before back to dominate the second dropping the second two match­and third games 30-18, 15-11, es 30-21 and 15-12. During the winning the match. 
.1' Wet Your iVhistle! 
(and stuff your face) 
DAILYSPECIALS fa> 
Rated #1 Hot Wings in the area 
Monday Night Football Buckets of Wings & Half-Priced Pitchers 

1803 SOUTH BEND AVENUE -SOUTH BEND, IN~1 Next to Studebagels. Family Dining Available ~1 
247-9293. ·~:. I _t:.I) 
Must be 21 with valid ID to consume alcohol S P O r t s 

Volunteers Needed 
The Early Childhood Development Center located at Saint Mary's College ~nd the University of Notte Dame 1s looking for volunteers who er.joy young children. If you would be interested in spending 2 hou15 p~ Wt"CiC reading to children and playing with children, please call: Kart at ECDC-SMC 284-4693 or Sue at ECDC•ND 631-3344 for more in!orm:alion. (Employment opportunities also available.) 
Early
Childhood 
Development
Center, Inc. 
284•4693 (ECDC-SMC) 
631-3344 
(ECDC-ND) 

"They pooled their talents The Belles will take on the very well," Schroeder-Bick said. Knights of Calvin College on "The communication that they Tuesday at Calvin at 7 p.m. used, talking across the net, I thought that they did that very Contact Katie McVoy at well." mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

"YOUR FAMILY FUN CENTER" 
1811ECE NICHT 
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS 9PM-12 MIDNIGHT UNLIMITED BOWLING $6.95 PER PERSON SHOES INCLUDED 
Beacon Bowl-421 O Lincolnway W. South Bend 234-4167 
SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Carmen Nanni Student Returnees 
Tuesday, September 11, 2001 231 DeBartolo 5:00-6:30 p.m. 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO APPLY FOR SPRING 2002. 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2001 for Spring 2002 Dec. 1, 2001 for Fall '02 and All Year 2002~03 Applications Available: www.nd.edu/"1I1tlstud/ 
-
:·~ t 
Monday, September I 0, 2001 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Mobley leads Irish· to win 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Writer 
Dominating the field and defining the meaning of depth, the fifth-ranked Irish men won the Valparaiso Invitational Friday, sweeping the top three spots. 
Finishing with a team score of 21, Notre Dame had five runners in the top eight without the help of seniors Luke Watson, who took first at Valparaiso last year, and Ryan Shay, who took the week off to rest. 
Sophomore Todd Mobley won the meet with a time of 25: 17. 
"We more or less used this as a learning experience," Mobley said. "We're focusing on nation­als and not worrying too much about early meets." 
Head coach Joe Piane saw a promising field of runners in this meet. Now, the difficulty lies in choosing which seven men to run. 
"This meet indicates that I'm going to have some problems this season," said Piane. "With all these good [runners]. I can only run seven. We'll have five really solid guys and then seven more for two spots. But it's a good problem to have." 
This Irish focus this weekend was more experience than low running times. The upperclass­men were looking to get the first-year runners indoctrinated into college running. 
"We ran as a pack for the first three miles, and let the other teams take the pace," Mobley said. "We weren't that con­cerned with times. We were just trying to drag the freshmen along. A few freshmen struggled, which is typical for their first race. I know a few didn't run as well as they're capable of." 
Sophomore Brian Kerwin fin­ished second in 25:28 followed by senior Marc Striowski who finished third with a time of 
25:29. Sophomore Mario Bird was seventh running 25:41and freshman Ryan Johnson was eighth with a time of 25:43. Junior Nathan Shay took ninth in 25:50 and senior Tom Lennon was 10th, finishing in 26:24. 
Piane was very pleased with his team's performance. 
"Brian Kerwin struggled last year, but this year he's like a dif­ferent kid. This was Mario Bird's first race because he was injured last year," Piane said. "Ryan Johnson ran great." 
Valparaiso finished second at the meet with a team score of 
57. Wisconsin-Milwaukee fin­ished with 7 8. Wisconsin with 102, Evansville with 160, Wisconsin-Green Bay with 168, Indiana-Purdue Fort Wayne with 184, and Chicago State with 253. 
Contact Katie Hughes at Hughes.39@nd.edu. 

371-4015. An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/D/V. 

VolkswagenCredit 
Colleagues Wanted. 
NO WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish disappointed with second place 
By KATIE HUGHES Sports Writer 
Trapped by early and unex­pected speed from the rest of the field and by holding back too much, the Irish women struggled to a second place finish in Friday's Valparaiso Invitational. 
However, freshman Christi Arnerich finished second over­all and first for the Irish with a time of 23:03. 
"[t was pretty nerve wrack­ing," Arnerich said of her first college race. "I tried to go out with Muffy Schmidt, and then at the end I knew I had to go get some Western Michigan girls, so I did." 
Western Michigan won with a team score of 27, while 

G])O 
Audi 
Financial Services 
Notre Dame trailed with a 
score of 41. 
Head coach Tim Connelly was disappointed in his team, but took much of the fault upon himself. 
"To be honest, I don't think we ran well at all. We were out of it after 800 meters, and instead of being controlled, we were lacksidaisical," he said. "Part of that is my fault. I had said not to go out too hard, but I didn't mean to get out of it." 
"I don't think we were in the right mindset for a meet," Arnerich said. "We were thinking of it more as a big time trial." 
Intending to use Valparaiso to test the depth of the team, Notre Dame didn't run fresh­man Lauren King, junior Jen Handley, junior Jen Fibuch and sophomore Megan Johnson, who should be a eore of top performers as the sea­son progresses. 
"The next time we run, it will be a whole different type of team," Connelly said. "We've got some very good kids up front, but we need to continue to develop our depth. 
i 

But Christi [Arnerich] is a kid . 'I that's going to help us. Muffy I 
' 

[Schmidt] had a good race, and Emily Showman was hurt for the last two years, but she's going to help us this sea­son." 
Connelly plans to hold off on 

running freshman Lauren King, whose track season did not end until mid summer, until October. 
"I think the best thing we 

can do for her long term development is to hold her out and be patient," said Connelly. "I think as a team we have a lot of work to do, but to be honest, that's the attitude we need. When you win your first race. you're usually not as good as you think you are. But when you lose, you're usually not as bad as you think you are." 
Junior Muffy Schmidt fin­ished sixth with a time of 
23:05. Sophomore Emily Showman and senior Hilary Burn finished ninth and 10th, with times of 23:23 and 23:28. Sophomore Julie Schmidt was 14th with a time of 23:32, and sophomores Megan Peterson and Beth Androski finished 17th and 18th with times of 23:42 and 23:45. 
Also finishing Friday for the Irish were freshman Katie Wales, who finished 26th with a time of 24:16, junior Keri McCarthy, who finished 27th with a time of 24:22, junior Susan Creary, who finished 29th with a time of 24:33, freshman Kerry Meagher, who finished 38th with a time of 25:07, and sophomore Melissa Webb, who finished 50th with a time of 25:47. 
Valparaiso finished third with a team score of 83, fol­lowed by Wisconsin with 102. Evansville with 160, Wisconsin-Green Bay with 168, Indiana-Purdue Fort Wayne with 184 and Chicago State with 253. 
Contact Katie Hughes at Hughes.39@nd.edu. 
• • ••• .., r ... .. .. .a: r
-------------------------' 

'I 
\ 


,i 
iI 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 10, 200 I 
Himrod, and then Himrod's rebound attempt was blocked
Soccer 

at the corner of the net by continued from page 24 Irish defender Candace 
Chapman. 
The first ended in a 1-1 tie opportunity to score, but Amy with the Irish dictating the Warner's shot on goal hit the pace of the game. From all left post and bounced out of indications early in the sec-
bounds.  ond half, it  
The Irish, unaccus­tomed to trailing at home, were finally able to tie the game in the 27th  "Wzth all the injuries, I had to play midfield out ofnecessity, but it did not change my approach to the game at all.,,  appeared as if the Irish would be able to take care of the Badgers, but once again, the  
minute of the  Irish strug­ 
first  half.  Monica Gonzales  gled to take  
From 25 feet  senior  advantage  

outside of the goalie box, Gonzales sent a high-arching left-footed shot over Conway's head. Gonzales, usually a defender, was forced to play midfielder as a result of an injury to starting midfielder Randi Scheller. 
''I've played midfield before so it wasn't that much differ­ent for me," she said. "With all the injuries, I had to play midfield out of necessity, but it did not change my approach to the game at all." 
Midfielder Mia Sarkesian and forward Kelly Tulisiak were credited with assists on Gonzales' first goal of the sea­son. 
The Irish prevented a 2-0 halftime deficit with a defen­sive stance that stopped Wisconsin's only other offen­sive threat in the first half. Wagner blocked a shot by Wisconsin midfielder Lisa 
of their 
offensive 
chances. 

Numerous times, the Irish were able to cross the ball into the Wisconsin goalie box. but the Irish forwards were hesitant to take shots on net allowing the Wisconsin defenders to recover and clear the ball out of bounds. 
Despite the Irish miscues in front of the goal, they were· able to take the lead in the second half on a goal nearly identical to Monica Gonzales' goal in the first half. Freshman Candace Chapman stole the ball from a Wisconsin player and made a run up the right sideline cap­ping it off with a great pass to Warner. Warner juked around a defender and struck the ball with her left-foot from 25 feet away from the goal. 
Warner's shot soared past 


'T'he 7'lotre r>arrie La"t-V School 7'Tatural La"t-V Institute presents 
~he C>li11 I >isti11g1..1ished Lect1..ire Series 
I 
(, 
(
'. 
I' 
I• 
I 
'I 
I I 
( 
I 
'' 
. I 
' 
i 
If 
I j 
' ( 
I 
I ' 
r 
I 
I
) 
{ 
I 
( 
I 

II Can There 
I

a oraI PsychologyI 
Upc:..m¦-g Le,c:1ha.-..-. 
R.T. VVright October 30 
Francis Cardinal George 
r 

IVlarch 21 
James Gordley April 11 
the outstretched arms of Conway giving the Irish a 2 -1 lead. 
For the remaining 30 min­utes of the second half, the Irish continued to put pres­sure on the Wisconsin defense but they were unable to get any clean looks at the goal. 
The Badgers unable to mount any serious offensive attacks either, but they refused to give up against the Irish. The Badgers' persis­tence paid off when they were able to surprise the Irish defense on a counterattack. 
After a blocked Notre Dame corner kick, Wisconsin quick­ly moved the ball up field catching the Irish off guard. Irish midfielder Ashley Dryer was able to catch up to the streaking Wisconsin forwards but when she tried to clear the ball out of bounds, the ball landed at the feet of Wisconsin forward Kristin Betz. 
Betz dribbled the ball to the center of the field and found onrushing forward Kelly Kundert. Betz's pass went just beyond the outstretched leg of Gunnarsdottir allowing Kundert to get an open shot on net. Kundert made the most of her opportunity strik­ing the ball past Liz Wagner to tie the game at two with only five minutes remaining in regulation. 
Regulation ended with the score knotted at 2-2. Both teams were extremely fatigued in the overtime peri­ods. Most of the play took place in the midfield where neither team was able to take control of the ball and set up an offensive attack. 
The Irish's best chance to score came early in the first overtime when Warner made a run towards the Wisconsin goal. 
However, her shot was punched out of bounds by a great save from Conway. 
The game was plagued by numerous fouls called on both teams, interrupting game flow. 
"Certainly, there was physi­cal play out there, but the ref was not the reason why we didn't play well," said Warner. "We just have to come together as a team. We just didn't execute the simple Irish's record now stands at 3-0-1 on the season. 
. The Irish defeated Indiana University in overtime 2-1 Friday night at Alumni Field thanks to goals by midfielder Randi Scheller and forward Kelly Tulisiak. Scheller's goal was her first of the season, 
while  Tulisiak's  was  her  
third.  
. The  Irish played Sunday's  

game without the services of starting midfielders Randi Scheller and Mary Boland. Scheller was injured late in the second half of the Irish victory against Indiana. Forward Melissa Tancredi was also kept out of action as she is still recovering from a 
aspects of the game 
"We need to get healthy
today." 
After start­in a hurry. But we also ing off the 
need to pick up our 
season with 
intensity this week in 
four straight home games, practice. " the Irish travel to 
Randy Waldrum 
California 
Irish head coach
next week for pivotal battles 
knee injury. Scheller and Tancredi are hoping to return to action next weekend· while Boland will remain out of action indefinitely. Forward Ali Lovelace was unable 

against perennial top 10 teams Stanford and Santa Clara. 
"We need to get healthy in a hurry," Waldrum said. "But we also need to pick up our intensity this week in prac­tice." 
Notes: 
. After the Irish's 2-1 victory against Indiana on Friday night and their 2-2 tie to the Badgers on Sunday, the to play in overtime as a result of a knee injury she suffered at the end of the second half. Her status will be r_eevaluated tomorrow. 
. The tie snapped a Irish­record 29 consecutive home game winning streak that dates back to a 3-2 loss to the University of North Carolina in 1999. 
Contact Joe Licandro at Joseph.R.Licandro.l@nd.edu. 
Be ,, 


Diatl-a-¦-h..cl a ..aeatrc:h ...-...•••ac»r •-d ..............r ... ....yc:::hc»lc»gy. G ..c»rg..tc»...,.. u-1,..,..r ..lty; Fac:-¦ty 
F ..¦¦c»wv.  at thet u-¦w,etrsity  c»1f O~c»rcll  
IUlc:1t-day., Stetptet-betr  ... 0., 200-.  
4  .......  

N ..t.-.. Dam.. Lawv Sc:h....¦ c:..-rtrca..,m 
Monday, September 10, 2001 page 23 
The Observer . TODAY 
RYAN

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
BEMUSED AND BEFUDDLED 
CUNNINGHAM 


had fashioned. QBDRAW? ~ 
ON THIRD DAVIS! 
ANC> TWENTY? 

FOXTROT 
T'S THE SECOND WEEK  
WHAT'S THE  oF SCHOOL AND I'VE  
AARGH!  M.6.TTER?  LREAOY FoRGoTTEN MY  
\  LoCICER COM81NATlON!  
\  l  

BILL AMEND 
I FEEL Lll<E YOU SHOULD WAIT THi STUPIDEST REALLY? FoR ME To TELL FRESHMAN IN YOU / YOU YOUR LOCICER 
THE WORLD SHOULDN'T. \ IS oVER THERE. 1
RIGHT NOW! J A 
"Whown.o ?" 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 32"... and_ a 63 "The Story of 
good-nighr H" 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON pened. Sort out differences before 
1 Check point? 
THIS DAY: Michael Keaton, moving on. You owe it to those
34 Nile slitherer 64 Give as an
5 Like Swiss Hugh Grant, Billy Preston, Goran who were upset by your dramat­
example
cheese 37 International Visnjic, Robert Desiderio, ic tantrums. 000 writers' org. 65 Do in Michelle Williams, AdamSandler VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
1oTartan garb 
Happy Birthday: Don't hold Travel is in your best interests. You
38 "Adieu" 66 Ruth_
14 Iris's place back. Go after any accomplish­will be able to hook up with indi­
Ginsburg
40 Strong alkali ments that you desire. You have viduals who can open your eyes
15 Dean Martin 
41 Approx. number 67 Was able to far more stamina and know-how to a multitude of new ideas. 000 
song subject 
answer on a test than you give yourself credit for. LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):
42 Textile

16 Eligible for Experimenting will bring your Don't become run-down. If you
trademark

service goals closer and open your mind feel exhausted, take a break. Fol­
43 Carry on DOWN to a whole new approach. Meet low your instincts and listen to
17 "So long" 
44 Mussolini, e.g. 1 Kind of stop challenges head--on and find suc­what your body is telling you. 19 Pull the plug on cess. Your numbers: 10, 13, 22, 26, 0000
45 Crucial element 2 With: Fr. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
34, 38

20 Much of the 
48 "Toodle-co" 3 _-dawwell ARIES (March 21-April 19): Involvement in worthwhile
surface of Mars 
52_Xing 4 Traveled like an Take time to help older relatives groups will lead to favorable rela­21 Carried Inuit with their winter preparations. tionsnips. I£7ou're honest and
53 Campaign 

You need to find ways to earn take care o any loose ends
22 Most Foreman 5 Most vigorous 
speech, e.g. extra money and pay down your regarding past connections, all
wins, informally 
54 Way-out 6 Gen. Bradley debts. Don't let clilldren talk you will tum out well. 0000 
23 "Farewell" into unwise purchases. 0000 SAGilTARIUS (NCN 2'.2-0ec. 21):
58 Colonel or 7 "_luck!" 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take time to smell the coffee and
26 Purplish red corporal 
8 Bard's "before" Your emotional turmoil will enjoy life's offerings. Such a hec­30 Aria 59 "Until next time 9 "So's _old cause friction with family. Try to tic pace has left little time for 
• be fair and don't blame everyone yourself, let alone for family. 00
31 Essay page, for man!" 
else for your bad mood. Plan to CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19):short 62 Nosh 10 Where 48-Down do something to improve your Pursue activities that will expandfought in 1 999 disposition. 000 your circle of friends and teach 11 Words from an GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you new skills. It's time to update 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
emcee This will not be the day to take your image and broaden those Puzzle by Fred Placop chances. Play by the rules and horizons.000
12 Actress Tea 
don't push your luck with the AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
34 Greenspan of 48 European 56 Yardage pickup 
You'll be in your element at socialofficers in blue. You may be a
the Fed group 

57 Villa d'_ good driver, but that doesn't give functions. Your ability to enter­
18 Lots 
35Lip-_ 49Tono_ you a license to speed. 000 tain and captivate potential mates 
59 Bar bill 

21 Scarlett O'Hara, CANCER (June 21-July 22): should lead to an interesting
50 Buttinsky
e.g. 36 Tampa-St. _ 60 Orthodontists' 
New friendships will develop if evening.0000 
24 Of service 51 Made a request org. you take part in a worthy cause. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 10):
38 Obese's 

55 Prefix with 61 Fine-grained Volunteering is a selfless act, and Difficulties with older females
25 _-poly opposite 
you're bound to meet equally may cause alarm. Be careful not
drama wood
26 Wear a long 39 Predatory whale generous kindred spirits. 0000 to overreact. Try to deal with the face LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You issues as quickly as possible and 
43 Not the most 

get on with more enjoyable pas~
27 Bronx Zoo Answers to any three clues in this puzzle can't ufset everyone and then
refined fellow 

take of as if nothing has hap-times.000
houseful are available by touch-tone phone:
44 Mule's father 

28 Lady's escort 1 ·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Birthday Baby: You a.re willing to share your sensational ideas and 46 More nimble Annual subscriptions are available for the speak your mind. You have the wherewithal to make things happen. ­reciter 47 Musical chairs best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 You are colorful, witty and willing to face any challenges head-on. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com,
33 Poem of praise goal years: 1-888-7 •ACROSS. 
eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 
C> 2001 UniVttSa.l Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
•

D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ____________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ ­

Campus Sports 

. 
Men's CC, p. 21 


. 
ND Women's CC, p. 21 

. 
SMC Volleyball, p. 20 

. 
ND Golf, p. 17 



ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
O
THE National Sports
BSERVER 

. 
National League, p. 18 

. 
NFL, p. 17 

. 
NCAA Football, p. 16 




Monday, September 10, 200l 
Irish 'Badgered' to 2-2 draw 
I t 

TIM KACMAR/The ObseNer 
Sophomore forward Amy Warner avoids a defender during an Irish victory over Hartford Sept. 
2. Notre Dame tied Wisconsin in overtime Sunday. 
SMC GOLF 

Belles win first match in history 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 

The Saint Mary's golf team swung into MIAA action this weekend claiming its first ever tournament win and its first ever conference win. Four points were enough to top seven other MIAA teams and leave the Be Iles in good stand-Pekarek ing for the MIAA championship later this , 
I month. 

' t 

"I was thrilled with [the team's] performance," head 
coach Theresa Pekarek said. "I think it's a place we've had the potential to go and we finally did it." 
This season marks the fourth year of the program's existence and Pekarek's fourth year as head coach. During the last three seasons, despite finishing in third place in the MIAA, the Belles had never won a tournament. 
With its first tournament win under its belt, Pekarek is look­ing for her team to play even better. 
"We really played well [Saturday]," Pekarek said. "But we have the potential to play much better." 
The Belles teed off at Alwyn Golf course near Olivet at the first of four all-MIAA tourna­
see GOLF/page 19 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish falter in Nebraska 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
LINCOLN. Neb. 
A team can only truly gauge its level of play by going up against the best. This is espe­cially true for the Notre Dame women's volleyball team -a team that perennially domi­nates its weak Big East confer­ence opponents yet hasn't advanced to the NCAA quarter­finals since 1997. 
This weekend at the US Bank/Arby's Tournament in Lincoln, Neb., head coach Debbie Brown's team (3-3) found that they have some work to do. The Irish dropped three matches in three days, all in three games. Notre Dame fell to No. 7-ranked UCLA on Friday (28-30, 23-30, 26-30), No. 1 Nebraska (29-31, 22-30, 20-30) on Saturday and No. 15 Pepperdine on Sunday {8-30, 27-30, 23-20). 
. Notre Dame tied Wisconsin 2-2 in double overtime 
By JOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 
From the opening minute of the game on Sunday, the Notre Dame women's soccer team knew they were in for a real struggle against the University of Wisconsin. After two fatigu­ing halves and a grueling dou­ble overtime, the Irish were able to salvage a 2-2 tie against the Badgers who refused to back down from third-ranked Irish. 
"We were missing four starters when we entered over­time," said Irish head· coach Randy Waldrum. "But that is no excuse for our lack of com­munication and mental focus. We had numerous opportuni­ties to put them away in the first and second half and we just didn't take advantage of our offensive breakaways." 
Things could not have been any worse for the Irish at the very beginning of the game. Only 30 seconds into the game, Wisconsin scored an easy goal 
on a miscommunication between Irish defender Gudrun Gunnarsdottir and goalie Liz Wagner. 
Gunnarsdottir tried to head the ball back to Wagner, but Wagner was unable to handle the high pass allowing Wisconsin forward Kelly Kundert to slip· past Wagner and shoot the ball into a wide open net giving Wisconsin a quick 1-0 lead. 
Although Wisconsin gained an early advantage, the Irish regained their composure and take possession of the ball for a majority of the first half, but they were could not· capitalize on their early offensive chances. 
Twice the Irish looked to score only to fall short. The first chance came when Irish forward Amy Warner received a pass from midfielder Monica Gonzales right in front of the net. Warner immediately returned the favor back to Gonzales only for Gonzales' shot to be blocked by a tremendous diving save from Wisconsin goalie Kelly Conway. 
A few minutes later, Notre Dame had another prime 
see SOCCER'lpage 22 

The true test for the Irish, and perhaps their most impressive contest. was Saturday afternoon's match against the defending national champion Cornhuskers. Notre Dame led by as much as 9-5 early and had a chance to win at game. 
the other team. I think it would have helped." 
At that point, momentum swung in the Cornhuskers favor. In front of a sold-out crowd of 4,000 fans in the Colliseum -a volleyball-only arena -the Huskers improved 
their hitting 

point when percentage 
they led 29-"Ifwe win {game one] it to top the 28 late. gives us the momentum Irish 30-22 
Unfortu­and 30-20 in 
versus the other team. ,,
nately, the the final two Cornhuskers games to tied it up on Kristy Kreher take the the next match.
senior

point, then Nebraska blocked two head coach consecutive John Cook, Malinda who collect-Goralski attempts to come back ed career win No. 200 in the and win 31-29. contest, was impressed with 
"I think one of our goals for Notre Dame's approach our team is to win game one," Saturday. Exactly one year ear­said senior opposite Kristy lier. Nebraska dominated an Kreher, who posted a team­overwhelmed Irish squad at high 13 kills. "If we win it, it gives us the momentum versus see VOLLEYBALL/page 20 

. SMC Soccer vs. Hope, Tuesday, 4 p.m. 
OBSERVER

. ND Volleyball vs. Michigan, Wednesday, 7 p.m.
SPORT 

online classifieds 
. Men's Soccer vs. Rhode Island, Friday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Football at Purdue, Saturday 2:30 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 

O
THE 
Monday, September 10, 2001 BSERVER Nebraska 27, Notre Dame 10 

By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
The Irish had hoped they were past the humiliating loss suffered last year at the Fiesta Bowl. 
But in front of the largest crowd in Memorial Stadium history and a national television audience, Notre Dame showed it still has light-years to go to climb back into the upper echelons of college football programs. Hampered by an ineffective offense and multiple turnovers, Notre Dame fell to Nebraska 27-10. The Irish dropped to No. 23 in the AP poll, while the Huskers remained at No. 4. 
"Obviously, we weren't a very well pre­pared football team. I take responsibility for that," Irish head coach Bob Davie said. 
Notre Dame had problems executing offensively all night long. Husker defense held the Irish to 162 yards of total offense and only three drives where Notre Dame gained over 25 yards. 
The offensive woes were particularly upsetting for Davie, who said before the season started that he hoped the offense would be more dynamic and more consis­tent. 
'Tm disappointed right now in our offense," Davie said in obvious disgust. "Too many penalties, too many self­inflicted mistakes. Once again, we had 
Early mistakes and ineffective offense lead to Irish embarrassment 
that deer in the headlights look. We got a little bit better in the second half, but still not enough to win at this level of football." 
Davie also has a quarterback controver­sy on his hands. Although sophomore quarterback Matt Lovecchio played 12 of Notre Dame's 15 series, Carlyle Holiday led the Irish on their longest drive, a 64­yard campaign that ended in Nick Setta's 29-yard field goal. But in his collegiate debut, Holiday generally looked tentative in the pocket and threw an interception in the third quarter -a pass that so upset Davie that he pulled Holiday for the rest of the game. 
"I really don't care about [who plays]" said LoVecchio, who finished 11-for-24 passing with just 78 yards. "Whoever can move the team down the field should be in the game." 
But it was turnovers, not the play of the quarterbacks, that put the Irish in an early hole. The Irish -who only commit­ted eight turnovers last year, tying an NCAA record -turned the ball over four times, including interceptions by Lovecchio and Holiday, a Terrance Howard fumble on Notre Dame's first offensive play and a botched snap on a punt. In all, Nebraska scored 10 points off Irish mistakes. 
"The first play of the game, the first play of the 2001 football season, we put the football on the ground. Are you kid­ding me? Are you kidding me?" Davie said. "A team that turned the ball over eight times all last year, the first play of the 2001 season. we're going to put the ball on the ground? That's my fault. We didn't do a good enough job." 
"Whatever happened out there, we need to fix it quick," Lovecchio said. "We need to put points on the board ... throw­ing an interception, fumbling the football, it all led to momentum swings." 
It wasn't all negative for the Irish. Shane Walton blocked a punt at the end of the third quarter, setting up Tony Fisher's 1-yard touchdown run and the Notre Dame defense held Nebraska scoreless in the second half. 
"The defense in the first half made some mental mistakes and bad deci­sions," Irish defensive end Ryan Roberts said. "In the second half, we just made the adjustments, played better, and shut them out. All we did in the second half was play to our ability and eliminate the mistakes." 
But the Irish defense was, according to Davie, "back on our heels" early. On the opening drive, the Huskers took the ball 64 yards in nine plays. culminating in Dahrran Diedrick's two-yard touchdown run. And on the first play after Howard's fumble, Nebraska quarterback Eric Crouch hit Josh Gibson for a 22-yard touchdown pass to put the Huskers up 14-0 less than five minutes into the game. 
"I think that the way we got down there so quickly on the first drive really set the tone for the entire game," said Diedrick, who added a three-yard touchdown run in the secQnd quarter and finished with 133 yards rushing on 32 carries. 
"We dominated in the first half," added Crouch. "We were really excited to get out there and to show the country that we have a great offense." 
"When you take the field, the first snap, you have to play," Irish defensive coordi­nator Greg Mattison said. "You can't give a team a half to get a lead on you and then say, 'OK, we're going to play now'." 
Husker tight end Tracy Wistrom also gave Notre Dame problems. Several times during the game, Notre Dame dropped back into zone coverage, leaving Wistrom wide open in the middle of the field. He led all receivers with four catches for 71 yards. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

quote of the game
player of the game 

stat of the game 
·~e you kidding me? A team that 
Dahhran Diedrick 
4 turnovers 

tl07led the ball over eight times last 
Notre Dame was so preoccupied 
Protecting the football was a 
year, the first play ofthe 2001
with shutting down Eric 

hallmark ofNotre Dame football 
··.·-~.·· '
t;.~·
~:o -...".· . 

season we put the ball on the ground., 
--~~--, Crouch. Diedrick ran all over 
last year. Not anymore. 
~ 

BobDavie
the Irish defense, averaging 4.2 

Nebraska won the game because 
Irish head coach
yards per carry. 

the Irish gave the ball away. 
..... 
Monday, September I 0, 200 I

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
report card 
quarterbacks: LoVecchio was prettyC+ much ineffective and his passing sus­pect. Holiday had one good drive in the second quarter, but made rookie mistakes. Both had an interception. 
C-
running backs: After Howard fumbled the first play ofthe game, it was all 
downhill from there. They only gained 72 yards rushing. 
B 
receivers: Givens quietly had 66 receiving yards. The receivers didn't drop any passes, but they didn't 
make a big play, either. 
C+ offensive line: The Irish tailbacks had nowhere to run as the offensive line opened very few holes. They also allowed two sacks. 
C 
defensive line: Weaver was the bright spot in an otherwise poor effort. 
.. Irons left the game due to injury, 
and Campbell, Wisne and Hilliard 
were pushed around all night. 
B+ 
linebackers: Boiman, Harrison, and Watson genuinely played well. Watson led all players with 18 tackles, and 
Boiman was a presence early. They 
had matchup problems with Jt'istrom. 
B 
defensive backs: Aside from misread­ing the option on Nebraska's touch­down pass, they made several solid tackles that kept Diedrick from hit­
ting the end zone. 

C 
special teams: Walton's punt block was the bright spot. They botched a snap, allowed two big returns and 
didn't break a return oftheir own. 
coaching: Although Davie took the 
D blame here, it's not all his fault. Offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers has a lot ofquestions to answer. 
overall: Early mistakes killed the Irish. Defensively, they were solid in the second
2.30 

half, but the offense was just plain ineffective. 
adding up the numbers 
Record-setting

at 78 118 ·
attendance 
Memorial Stadium , 

30 average starting yard line -on Notre Dame's end of the field ­of Nebraska in the first quarter 
Number of turnovers 
8 
committed by Notre Dame all last season 

4 
Number of Irish turnovers committed in Saturday's game 
number of passes Nebraska 
1 
threw in the second half 

45 
number of yards lost on a botched long snap in the first 
quarter 
number of referees iniured and replaced at halftime by 
1
an alternate 

8 
number of paratroopers that landed in Memorial Stadium 
during halftime 
INSIGHT 


LINCOLN, Neb. 
Irish fans are disgusted. 
From students in South Bend to alumni in New York and everywhere in between, the disgust for the way the Irish played 
Saturday night in Lincoln is echo­ing across the Internet, the din­ing hall and the dorm rooms. The Notre Dame faithful are pretty much fed up with 


the football 

Mike Connolly
team's failure in big games. 

But you know who is even more Outside disgusted? Looking In 
Bob Davie. 

Davie walked into the post-game interview on Saturday night and pulled no punch­es. He took complete responsibility for the every Irish failure and gave credit for every success to the players and the players alone. 
"Obviously we weren't a very well­prepared football team and I take responsibility for that," he said. "I don't care how many games you've played. I don't care how many people are in the stands. I don't care about the crowd noise. There was no excuse. And I take responsibility." 
Davie has taken responsibility for losses in the past but they have always come with a footnote: There isn't a lot of talent on this team. We're a young team. We don't have enough speed. We have too many injuries. We have an inexperience quarterback. 
Saturday night there were no excuses. 
Davie knows where this team should be and how this team should playing and he takes complete responsibility for the 27 -10 loss on Saturday night. 
"We had a deer in the headlights look and I am really disappointed because I thought we were past that as a team," he said. "First play of the game. First play of the 2001 season, we put the ball on the ground." 
Just like thousands of Notre Dame fans across the country, he had the same reaction to Terrance Howard's fumble on Notre Dame's first offen­sive drive. 
"Are you kidding me? Are you kid­ding me?" he asked, exasperated in the press conference. "A team that turned the ball over eight times all of last year and we're going to put the football on the ground on the first play of the game?" 
Davie's comments left the writers who have covered his term as head coach in shock. Never before had Davie been so forthright in assigning blame to himself. Maybe it's because this is the year he has to produce. This is the year where there can be no more excuses. This is Davie's team. Every player on this-team has played his entire college career for Davie. 
If this team isn't fast enough, it's because Davie didn't recruit enough speed. 
If this team isn't tough enough, it's because Davie didn't recruit enough attitude. 
If this team doesn't win, it's because Davie didn't lead them to vic­tory. 
But this team is fast enough. It is tough enough and it should be win-. ning. 
And the players know it and they aren't blaming Davie. They are blam­ing themselves. 
"I think Coach Davie is taking responsibility because it was the first game," senior tailback Tony Fisher said. "But it wasn't Coach Davie's fault. We went out there and didn't execute. They put us in the position to make plays and we didn't make plays." 
There are hundreds of football "geniuses" on the Internet filling chat board after chat board with mindless dribble about how bad the offense is or how weak the defense looked in the first half. 
But their anger is nothing com­pared to how the players feel. 
"Offensively we had a lot of trouble executing. Defensively we put our­selves in some bad positions," defen­sive end Ryan Roberts said with dis­gust dripping from his words. 
Every player interviewed Saturday night put the blame on the players as surely as Davie put the blame on him­self. 
"We had a lot of assignment errors," cornerback Shane Walton said. "Coach Davie had us prepared and they didn't do anything we didn't expect. Coach had us prepared. We should have taken that game." 
The only time Davie didn't accept responsibility for a part of that game was when a player made a good play. Davie gave all the credit for the punt block to \,Valton. 
"I thought he did a great job of knowing their scheme," Davie said. "We didn't make the call. He made the call. He deserves credit for that one. No coach deserves credit for that. He made the call." 
So where do Bob Davie and his troops go from here? 
There were some positives in this game. The defense stiffened and shut out Nebraska in the second half. The offense cut out the turnovers and moved the ball a little bit in the sec­ond half. . 
This team showed signs of life and promise in the second half. 
'The fact that this football team didn't quit and we blocked a punt in the second half shows there is some heart on this football team," Davie said. "We know there is enough heart on this football team. We've got a great bunch of kids that want to win. We've just got to coach them." 
Although Davie has never lost a season opener before, his career at Notre Dame has been marked by slow starts and strong turnarounds. He's righted a sinking ship before. He can do it again this year. 
"We are not going to leave our sea­son out here in Lincoln. Neb." he said. "We are going to get this thing right." 
And unlike those disgusted football experts on the Internet, Davie can actually turn his disgust into action and get something accomplished. 
Mike Connolly can be reached at Connolly.28@nd.edu. The views of this column are those ofThe Observer and are not necessarily those ofthe author. 



Monday, September I 0, 200I 
The Observer. IRISH INSIDER page 3 
LoVecchio, Holiday start quarterback controversy 

By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
LINCOLN. Neb. 

\Vith 11 :4:2 left in the second 
quarter Saturday, Carlyle 
Holiday took his first snap 
behind center for the Irish. And 
the latest Irish quarterback 
controversy officially began. 
Holiday, who relieved starter 
Matt Lovecchio after the Irish 
failed to score on five first­
quarter drives, arrived to a 
chorus of boos. In the only act 
of disrespect by an especially 
polite sea of red Nebraska fans. 
Holiday -who chose the Irish 
over the Cornhuskers on sign­
ing day in the spring of 2000 ­
was greeted with jeers. 
"I got booed. It sort of hyped 
me up a little bit," Holiday said 
That first drive ended with a 
Nick Setta field goal, Notre 
Dame's first points of the game. 
But Holiday's day was far 
from perfect. With less than 
two minutes remaining in the 
third quarter, Holiday dropped 
•back on first and 10 and threw a pass deep down the middle of the field -right into the wait­ing hands of Nebraska safety Willie Amos. 
"I really didn't see the safety 
drop," Holiday said. "When I 
threw it, it was a big moment 
in the game. I think that drive 
was six minutes long and it 
took a lot of momentum out of 
us." 
That play put the sophomore 
on the bench for the remainder 
of the game and drew a mixed 
performance review from Irish 
head coach Bob Davie. 
"I thought Carlyle Holiday 
came in and did some good 
things but it was inexcusable 
that interception he threw," 
Davie said. "First and 10 with 
the safeties deep and he throws 
the ball down the middle. But 
he is a young guy who hasn't 
played a lot and he will get bet­
ter." 
But Holiday's final stat sheet was no worse than classmate LoVecchio's. Holiday completed five of eight pass attempts for 41 yards and was Notre Dame's second-leading rusher with 21 yards on the ground, including one rush for 17 
yards. Davie blamed the rest of 
Notre Dame's offense for the 
team's failure to score more 
than 10 points. 
"Carlyle came in and made 
some plays but I am not down 
on Matt Lovecchio. I don't 
know how things would have 
changed had we executed bet­
ter," Davie said. 
Lovecchio and the rest of the 
offense seemed stuck in the 
same malaise that affected the 
Irish during last winter's Fiesta 
Bowl. Lovecchio completed 11 
of only 24 pass attempts, 
throwing an interception of his 
own late in the first quarter. 
"From the get go, I think my interception turned the ball over," Lovecchio said. "That's just a momentum thing that really doesn't go in our favor. One thing leads to another and we're down and we're not mov­ing the ball anymore." 
Davie anticipates Lovecchio starting Saturday when the Irish take on Purdue in West Lafayette. But the Irish coach maintains that the offense as a whole must perform better. 
"If I were to make a guess right now I would say Lovecchio would be the starter but we have a lot of things we still need to address," Davie said. 
As for the controversy over which sophomore will take snaps under center for the one of the nation's highest-profile teams. neither Holiday nor Lovecchio seem to care about anything other than the final score. 
"[As far as a quarterback controversy or anything like that] I don't really care," LoVecchio said. "If the quarter­back is in there -whether it's me, Jared [Clark] or Carlyle ­whoever's going to help this team move the ball down the field and score should be in." 
Holiday for one is more than comfortable with his role on the depth chart. 
"Matt's a solid starter," Holiday said. "We've just got to continue to keep pushing him." 
Other members of the offense deflect blame for the ineffective Irish offense away from Holiday and Clark. Arnaz Battle, last year's starting 
... 
-

there will be any negative effects for good friends Holiday or Lovecchio, whatever hap­pens. Lovecchio gave Holiday pointers while the backup was in the game. 
"He just came and gave me pointers on speaking loud and executing the offense," Holiday said. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 
··~s.t:;·,· ........ "•':::;·: ·.-.:~:~r-··· _;__ . _:"_-..~.)/ ~:-;,·. .
[\'..-_.. _':-,-:
r•:·_:__ ·.·· ·-· 
11/;:-: . .:· :_--:\f//:-N~{-:: -· 
Iii: 87, Colorado 49, Aubum 461 Michigan S1ate 30,I< Georgia 22, Wisconsin 19, Iowa 18. Stanford 16 ·. · 
jf(otherle~dirig vote getters Purdue 98~ Toledo · 
· 

scoring summary & stats 
scoring  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  0  3  0  7  10  
Nebraska  17  10  0  D  27  
team statistics  ND  NU  
first downs  14  16  
rushes-yards  30-43  52-202  
passing-yards  119  88  
comp-att-int  16-32-2  6-9-0  
return yards  128  129  
punts-yards  7-320  7-244  
fumbles-lost  3-2  3-2  
penalties-yards  9-63  10-69  
time of possession  29:10  30:50  
individual statistics  
passing  
ND  -Lovecchio 11-24-1, Holiday 5-8-1  NU ­ Crouch 6-9-1  
rushing  

ND -Fisher 7-45, Holiday 8-30, Jones 8-23, Howard 4-6, Lovecchio 2-4 NU -Diedrick 32-135, Crouch 14-46, Davies 5-21, Brye 1-0 
receiving ND -Givens 7-66, Hunter 4-38, Battle 2-8, Jones 1-8, Lopienski 1-0, Fisher 1-(-1) NU -Wistrom 4-71, Gibson 1-22, Diedrick 1-(-5) 
leading tacklers ND -Watson 18, Dykes 13, Harrison 11, Isreal 9, Weaver 8 NU -Burrow 11, Groce 7, Shanie 5, Craver 5 
scoring summary 1st 
NU -10:41 Diedrick 2-yd. run OeAngells klc1', 0-7 
NU -10:19 Gibson 22-yd. pus from Crouch OeAngells kick, 0·14 
NU· 3:59 
FG DeAngells 
19 yd., 0-17 
2nd 
ND -6:57 FG Setta 
29 yd., 3•17 
NU· 2:57 Diedrick 3-yd. run DeAngelis kick, 3-24 
NU· 0:01 FG DaAngells 
21 yd., 3-27 
3rd 
No scoring 
FG Kitchens 
4th 
ND -13:07 
Fisher 1-yd run Setta kick, 10·24 
.~. 
·.-:;/ 
'~ r
;,•,:,:;.: 
X 
one
!~i~t~ 
ffei' 13 . . WashlAgl .. 14 LSU +~t1,

:'./~: ~:!~, ... 
l Mlchlga 
·.·....·..···c1em•on ··· Northwe. South Q-,()1

oh10 statef\ < f ·. ·• ·••·· Oregon State
,;i~~i,. 
:_::(~:_f-i{i#/}}~~~--.::r_:.·-..:.::··_ --:.: ':_/ ,.. :: :··';:~~/-·:.\'~-~ :-:•:,\,..::·_·_;:':r-.: 
other Ieadi#g vote getters~ lo~lsvUle 11(.t;:t: 11 
Auburn 93, Toledo 46, N.c~ State 35. Mlehlgan State > .. 22, Stanford21,TexaaA&M21, lllinols19•.· miw·· 
quarterback who caught two passes for eight yards at flanker Saturday, indicated that the Irish would have lost with even Joe Montana leading the offense. 
"If we had an All-American quarterback tonight, even one of the greatest, I think we were out of sync our total offense," Battle said. "We never could get in that groove." 
The offense not finding that groove is why Holiday entered the game in the first place. Davie wanted to wake up the offense. 
"Let's face it, when you exe­cute as poorly as we did on offense, you're looking for a spark so you put Carlyle in there," Davie said. "I don't think the problem right riow is the quarterback. We aren't executing right now on offense." 
But as for the ever-present controversy, it is doubtful that 

... 

O
THE Nebraska 27, Notre Dame 10 BSERVER Monday, September 10, 2001 

Nebraska linebackers swarm a Notre Dame running back during first quarter action on Saturday night's game. Notre Dame only managed to rush for 43 yards against Nebraska's defense. 
TALE OF 
THE 
TURNOVER 
Not much went right for the Irish in Saturday night's contest against Nebraska. They couldn't run the ball and they couldn't pass the ball. The 
Irish committed four key first-half turnovers that turned the game in Nebraska's favor. The Huskers had a clear field position edge in the first half-an edge they took advantage of. Although the Irish outscored the Huskers 7-0 in the second half, it was too little, too late. 




I' 

H 
During the first quarter, the Irish forced Eric Crouch to fumble when he was running the option. Above left, Anthony Weaver (left) makes contact with Crouch as Rocky Boiman covers the pitch man. Above right, Crouch loses the ball. Below left, Weaver drags Crouch down and Boiman dives for the ball. Below right, Boiman holds the ball aloft. 








