
Yours might sink, but mine will win Where's my large inflatable dinosaur? 
Friday
Dorms across campus get ready for this Among other possessions being stolen, someone 
Saturday's Fisher Regatta. 
had the guts to rob Brewskie, the large inflatable dinosaur. 
Scene . page 10-11 
APRIL 20, 
Viewpoint . page 9 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 125 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Holtz emphasizes dreams 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Assistant News Editor 
In 1966, long before his glory days as the head football coach at Notre Dame, Lou Holtz thought things couldn't get much worse. 
His wife was eight months pregnant and he had just learned he lost his job. With Holtz unemployed, his wife went to work and Holtz began to contemplate his next move. 
The turning point came when his wife presented him with a book about the impor­tance of having dreams that advised the reader to write his or her dreams on paper. And Holtz did just that. 
..When you're unemployed, you have a lot of time to think about what you want to do." said Holtz. "By the time it was over, I had 107 things on my list from being on the 'Tonight Show' with Johnny Carson to running with the bulls in Pamplona. But when I showed my wife the list after she returned home from work she said 'that's great, but you still need to find a job."' 

Today, Holtz said he has accomplished 102 things on his list. 
In a speech on the keys to staying motivated and achieving success to a capacity crowd in the Mendoza College of Business Jordan Auditorium Thursday, Holtz emphasized the importance of having dreams and setting goals. 
"Set your goals and dreams and when you wake up each morning and as you go through your day, ask yourself, 'what's important now?"' said Holtz. 
After leaving Notre Dame, Holtz said he thought · he would never coach again. "Where do you go after coaching at Notre Dame?'' said Holtz. 
Holtz soon recognized what his lack of motiva­tion was a result of being "tired of maintaining." Setting goals and continuing to dream was what brought Holtz back to coaching and he urged those in attendance to do the same in order to be continually motivated and to be successful. 
"Everyone should set goals and standards and have dreams," said Holtz. "No one thought we could achieve what we did at South Carolina this season in our football program, but you can find a million ways to do things if you aren't just main­taining. It's when you get comfortable with where you are and just start to maintain that you lose 
see HOLTZ/page 4 

White House honors Irish champions 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
After being honored by area politicians and the U.S. Senate, Notre Dame's cham­pion women's basketball team will next have its day at the White House. 
Sports information officials confirmed Thursday that the national title-winning team will be honored Monday at a ceremony in Washington. 
D.C. The ceremony is sched­uled to begin around 10:15 
a.m. Monday on the south lawn of the White House. The visit will include remarks by President Bush and a tour of the executive mansion. 
"Not very many people get the opportunity to meet the President," freshman guard Jeneka Joyce said Thursday. 

"We're all very excited." 
The squad departs Sunday morning for the nation's capital and will be joined at the ceremony Monday by Duke, the NCAA men's champion basketball team. On April 1, the women's team defeated Purdue to win the national title in St. Louis. 
The Irish were also recently honored by the U.S. Senate. 
On April 6, a resolution to honor the team's champi­onship passed by unanimous consent. U.S. Sens. Evan Bayh, D-Ind., and Richard Lugar, R-Ind., sponsored the measure. 
University officials said Thursday that U.S. Rep. Tim Roemer, D-South Bend, sent a letter to Bush requesting a special White House cere­mony to honor his alma mater's team. 
This is the story of a hall 
• Carroll takes home 'Hall of the Year' award 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Associate News Editor 
These are the obvious reasons why Carroll Hall won 2000-2001 Hall of the Year: They won the Fisher Regatta. They created a dorm event "Fusic." They were named the best overall freshman orientation program by student activities. And they painted "Go Irish" on a 90 by 30-foot banner and hung it on the dorm for several home football games. 

This is the hidden reason why Carroll Hall won 2000-2001 Hall of the Year: 107 men with a 10­minute walk from the center of campus who have to invent novel ways to entertain themselves. 
This is one way they waist time: using an empty barrel and 12 empty soda cans, they bowl in the LAURA AOMPFfrhe Observer middle of the hallway. 

Several Carroll residents (above] enjoy a lunch of Grab'n'Go. While 
This is what Jonathan Jorissen 
most Notre Dame students eat In the dining hall 11-12 times a week,
said about the invention of barrel 
Carroll men said they usually make it inside only once or twice. Several
bowling: "We were sitting around 
Carroll men (right) cheer each other on In a game of "barrel bowling," a
with no visitors, as usual, looking 
game they Invented last semester.
for ways to amuse ourselves. We saw a barrel and we saw 12 empty pop cans, and thought 'These two don't go to the places: Lafortune is project and movies versus books. go together."' a 15-minute walk, Reckers is 12, This is how Carroll residents 
This is what other Notre Dame the closest dorm is seven and the decided to unwind after a stressful students do when they're sitting library is 1 7. finals week last year: they turned around looking for ways to amuse This is what Carroll men talk on all three showers at the highest themselves: walk to Lafortune, go about on those long walks back to temperate for 30-45 minutes and to Reckers, visit other dorms or the dorm: hockey versus basketball, sat in the bathroom "sauna." even study at the library. why Switzerland stinks, are student 
This is why Carroll residents managers drug dealers, the O.D.B. see CARROLL/page 6 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, April 20, 200 I 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK IN ND/SMC HISTORY 
Ready to graduate:' 
One month until graduation. an event I've looked forward to for a long time. 
Some days I've thought about graduation with excitement -so many opportunities are out there just waiting for me to find them, and earning a degree from Notre Dame is something to be proud of. 
Other days graduation equals anxiety -the safety net vanishes after gradua­tion, no more living off my parents. What if no one offers me a job? 
Some days, the thought of graduating makes me sad -leaving Notre Dame means leaving my friends, the Notre Dame family and everything Notre Dame has to offer. 
But now graduation isn't this far-off day that you can barely imagine when you're a kid and say, I want to be ____ when I grow up. Suddenly I'm supposed to be all grown up? Whoa! 
As much as I at times was ready to be done with essays and exams, a whole lot more of me loves the charmed life I lead at Notre Dame. South Bend may not be as exciting as New York City, and I could do without the never­ending winters (snow flurries in mid-April?!}, but I really have everything I need here. 
I'm surrounded by great friends and great people who would drop anything for me in an emergency. I don't have to worry about house payments or health insurance. I couldn't ask for a better mix of going out with friends, tak­ing classes and working (if you can call getting paid to attend sporting events and write about them work). 
\'Vith everything so perfect, why would I want to leave? Because it's time to move on. As much as I love this place, I've had my four years. 
I may not have done everything I would have liked. I wish I'd spent more late nights talking with friends, I didn't go to the Grotto enough and I have yet to make it to Nick's Patio after the 'Backer. But I've got a few weeks to do all that. 
And when I graduate, I have the chance to start all over. I can go anywhere, do anything. My parents are no longer making my decisions for me, and I'm not tied down to one place yet by a family of my own. 
Now's my chance to do all the things I've never done but always wanted to do. Rent a convertible and drive down Highway 101 in California. 
See the Grand Canyon. 
Find out if I can actually cut it as a sports writer. Try water skiing. My future's wide open. The only things limit­
ing me are the choices I make. 
I hope four years at Notre Dame have taught me that I'll never be sorry for taking a chance; it's backing away from risks that you regret. 
I can point to a city on a map and move there if I want. So where will I be a year from now ­South Bend, Dallas, Miami, Madrid? 
I don't have a clue. But I'm excited to find out. Notre Dame's given me an amazing four years and memories to spare. Now's my chance to see what the rest of the world has to offer. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Maribel Morey  Amanda Greco  
Scott Brodfuehrer Andrew Thagard  Graphics Katie McKenna  
Sports  Production  
Noah Amstadter Viewpoint  Anne Marie Mattingly Lab Tech  
Pac Kelly  Sarah Fuchs  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday chrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc resuvecl. 
Bookstore prices remain competitive Thursday, April 22, 1982 
The Notre Dame bookstore may not have had prices like K-Mart.but the prices were generally no higher and often less than prices charged at other college book­stores. The Observer surveyed schools such as Harvard and found that prices of items ranging from caculus books to toothpaste, while not always the lowest, were very close to prices at other schools. 

Senate withdraws vote of no confidence Thursday, April 23, 1992 
The Faculty Senate withdrew their motion for a vote of no confidence in University President Father Edward Malloy. The vote to withdraw the motion followed an hour and a half of debate and had four dissenting votes. The motion for a no confidence vote was in response to Malloy's veto of a proposal to increase faculty represen­tation on the Academic Council. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Auburn senate calls for trustee resignation 
AUBURN, Ala. 
After much debate and with amendments made, Auburn's University Senate has passed a reso­lution calling for the resignation of the entire Board of Trustees before a presidential search commences. 
The resolution passed Tuesday during a special session of University Senate and calls for the assistance of the governor, faculty. students, staff, administration and alumni if the board does not expedi­ently resign. 
"The board has compromised the reputation and integrity of Auburn." said Sen. Gary Mullen. "When a gov­erning board loses confidence of those they represent, the honorable thing for them to do is resign." 
University Senate passed the first 

"There would be an expectation that under the circumstances cur­rently upon us, multiple votes of no confidence, the entire board would have come forward and offer its res-
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Group stages sit-in for living wage 
. CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Nearly 50 members of the Progressive Student Labor Movement (PSLM) began a sit-in at Massachusetts Hall at 1:30 p.m. Wednesday, planning to remain indefi­nitely in the administrative building to demand a living wage of at least $10.25 per hour for all Harvard employees. PSLM members said their protest -strate­gically located in the building housing the office of University President Neil Rudenstine -also demands that the University join the Worker's Rights Consortium, an independent factory monitoring board. Student activists entered the building easily from the basement of Matthews Hall, armed with bags of food and tanks of water. They secured themselves in the halls of the building by linking arms while singing, chanting and reading testimony from Harvard work­ers. By 5 p.m. Wednesday, all administrators with offices in the building had trickled out of Mass. Hall ­leaving only protesters and Harvard University Police Department (HUPD) officers to occupy the building. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

q,~-~cQQQ ~ ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Ru,-;ies S~~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy CIOudy Via .utociated Pren OraphicsNet 
... 

ignation," said Sen. Virginia O'Leary. "I think this situation clear­ly calls for the resignation of every one of these members." 
Many faculty members expressed concern that even if the board resigned, the governor would appoint equally dissatisfactory mem­bers. 
Wayne Flynt, distinguished Unive~sity professor, told Senate not to assume that the governor's past appointments would be mirrored in new ones. 
"Don't assume because the gover­nor has done something one time, he's going to do it another ,time," Flynt said. He alluded to the number of voters Gov. Siegelman would lose were he to make such controversial appointments as he has previously. 
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 

Activist group objects to arson link 
EAST I.ANSING, Mich. 
A member of the campus activist group targeted by an Michigan State University police undercover operation called the university's statement linking the investigation of the group to the 1999 arson attack on Agriculture Hall "ridiculous accusations." Previous reasons for the under­cover operations included protests across the nation that had turned violent and a May 2000 commencement speech by World Bank President James Wolfensohn. But Michael Krueger, a member of the Students for Economic Justice, said he and fellow group members arc offended they would be linked to a terrorist group. "We've never done anything like that and the police know that," the history senior said. "We don't do that kind of stuff. We'd rather create social awareness than· bomb a building. That does not do anything as far as we're concerned." The group has focused largely on issues relating to university apparel. Group members are continuing to pursue legal actions against the university, despite publicized reasons for the investigation. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathere forecast for noon,Friday, April 20. 
40s 60s Lines separate high temperatum zones for the day. 
80• 70• ~ 

............. •e • 

0 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. C:Ot.D WARM STATIONARY 
l'rffan: 

®© ...... / 
High Law Shower ¦ Rain T-atorma Flumea Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta 
Baltimore 
Boston 
Chicago 
Houston 
"' ..... 
78 58 Las Vegas 66 51 68 53 Memphis 80 64 61 50 Milwaukee 69 61 75 62 New Yori<. 63 54 83 70 Philadelphia 71 55 
~
---. .. ... . . 

Portland 55 42 Sacramento 61 48 St Louis 78 65 Tampa 82 81 Washington, DC 70 54 
---------------------------------------------~-------------------------. 
Friday, April 20, 2001 page 3
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

University plans new hotel, larger law school 
projects are already in
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
progress or are planned to 
News Wrirer 
begin soon. The initiatives could leave 
As construction winds down the University unable to com­on at least three campus build­plete construction as early as it ings, the University is planning 
had hoped. The projects
the next wave of construction 
include the Marie Debartolo 
projects, including a larger law Performing Arts Center, addi­school and a new hotel. tions to Stepan Chemistry I fall 
According to Father Timothy and the Hesburgh Center for Scully. executive vice presi­International Studies. new dent, the current law school 
housing for vis­
building is iting faculty not ade­and a new
"We are restless to be a

quate to 
interdiscipli­
achieve the top-25 school. We 
nary engineer­University's certainly have the faculty ing facility,
goal of hav­
to achieve this goal, but which has the 
ing a top­
same priority
tier law we do have some space 
as the law
..

school. 
zssues. school. 
"We have "I would be 
aspirations 
very optimistic
Timothy Scully 

to be one of 
we can move 
the finest executive vice-president 
forward on this 
law schools in the· land. We are restless to be a top-25 school. We certainly have the faculty to achieve this goal. but we do have some space issues," Scully said. "Honestly. we probably need to double our spa_ce and upgrade our current facilities to build America's best law school." 
Planning for the construction is already underway. and Scully expects more details about a new building, including location, in about three months. 
Several other construction 
project in the near future," Scully said. 
The University's plans for a new hotel are of lesser impor­tance than the law school. Scully said. 
"It will be a very beautiful and flagship hotel here at the University, with a sweeping and breathtaking view," he said. 
Scully was unsure where the hotel would be constructed. He compared the locations of the new buildings to a big chess board, saying once the location for one building is decided, the rest will fall into place. 
ComAir cancels all flights after Air Line Pilots declare strike 
Comair flies Delta Connection routes 
Special to the Observer 

between South Bend and Cincinnati. Students with guests travelling to SouthDue to a strike called by the Air Line Pilots 
Bend for Commencement Weekend are
Association, Comair has cancelled all of its 

encouraged to check their travel plans and
flights through May 18, affecting those trav­

contact their travel agent. or call Comair
eling to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's for directly at 1-800-354-9822.
Commencement Weekend. 

Women find vocation in hearts 
By MYRA McGRIFF Saint Mary's Editor 
A Sister of Saint Dominic used the guiding example of Catherine of Siena to speak to the hearts of women to find their vocation and calling in a lecture at Saint Mary's Thursday. 
Mary Catherine Hilkbert deliv­ered her lecture entitled "Speaking with Authority: Catherine of Siena and the Voices of ·women Today" as part of the annual Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality. 
Born into a family of 24 sib­lings. Catherine of Siena found her vocation at an early age as a person not only loyal to the church but also a believer in speaking the truth. Catherine of Siena made it her goal to bring all people to the word God; including the church, which she felt was corrupt. She made it her goal to speak the truth no matter what the consequences. 
"She found that speaking the truth in love took discernment and courage," said Hilkbert. "She addressed the desperate need for church reform." 
The courage Catherine of Siena found to keep on through what Hilkbert described as criti­cism and rejection from church officials is what makes her example stand prominently for women today, according to Hilkbert. 
Her example rests not only in taking care of the sick and the poor of Siena, but also calling a responsibility of the church: to be members of truth. It is what Hilkbert thinks speaks to those women today that have had their voices taken away in ways that she names as poverty. domestic violence. lack of power, discrimi­nation of the female child and dismissal of women's rights. 
"Grace builds and expands on differences," said Hilkbert. 
Using words Catherine of Siena believes God spoke directly to her through mystical prayer, she saw ways to address the criti­cism she confronted because of her differences. Hilkbert stressed that only through her belief that she was called to "speak on her experiences of God," did Catherine continue to help the destitute and also open the eyes of the church. Hilkbert said Catherine of Siena wanted the church to remember all the members of their congregation. This inclusive attitude is what Hilkbert feels has motivated other women like Jean Donovan -a North American women killed in El Salvador on Dec. 2, 1980 while working to right the injustices of the poor there -to take on bold causes and "claim their own voices." 

In respect to her love for the truth, Hilkbert also spoke to the love Catherine of Siena had for the Christ. Saying that Catherine also used that love to channel herself deeper into her love for truth to the point she said to be, "bathing in the wounds of Jesus." 
"Her love for a broken world and church that lead to her deepest love for the church and Christ," said Hilkbert. 


Friday, April 20, 2001 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


ND student wins Truman scholarship 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Writer 
Spending summer and winter breaks in the public defender's office in Fort Wayne, Eden Essex decided she wanted to become a criminal 
defense attorney herself some­day. 
The Notre Dame junior recently received some help in working toward that 


goal. The Harry Essex 
S. Truman Scholarship Foundation recently named Essex as one of its 2001 Truman Scholars. 
"I was pretty stunned. It took a cou­ple of weeks to set in," said Essex, who plans to be a criminal defense attor­ney specializing in capital cases. 
As a Truman Scholar, Essex will receive a $30,000 scholarship, most of which is earmarked for graduate stud­ies. Essex will use the money to help pay for law school. She is one of only 80 college juniors from around the country selected to receive the award this year. 
"The object of the scholarship sits well with what I want to do," she said, explaining that the scholarship is designed for students planning careers in public service. Essex added that although she has alwa)'.s been 
Attention 
ERASMUS BOOKS -Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232~8444  ·•· •··@·.••. ··•···.,.,.•.··•· ••·®o< ri;) ••·.•./i:ti r· •® .R ·••·@···••·•.·.·••.Ir,\. • 1~ ... r~..•R·.··. . · .._.:.u::-..._.. --. . ... -Lt-5 .fr.l · .·. .· ·---l.5 ··. lr" ­lrl \:;> LS .·.· . . . .. .·.··..·... . 4 MONll-t SPECIAL ··· . fl.AV THROUGH AUGUST FOR NOTRE·OAME STUDENTS 5 xlO••·•·· $130+·DEP .< ·..·..•·. .. JOxlO ..;.. ~ $180 +DEP . ·... \<CALL 2<.56-3044> t. ··..·.• c(OSE -ro>••NOTRE DAME··ANQ.·AIRPORT  

Sophomores! Order your class ring now and have it ready in thefall! 
interested in public service, her inter­est has increased while she has been in college. · "It's developed more since I've been working in the public defender's office, and also since I've been here at Notre Dame," she said. 
During the school year, Essex has two jobs, one at the Snite Museum and one babysitting at University Village. She is majoring in government with a concentration in peace studies. 
Essex received the scholarship after a competitive selection process. 
"The students are chosen from a national pool. It's a rigorous process," said Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. Preacher helped Essex and other Notre Dame students apply for the scholarship this year. 
"Eden is an amazing person," Preacher said. "It's very prestigious.'' 
To apply, students must first fill out an application. which asks students to describe their extra curricular activi­ties as well as their career plans. Fifteen Notre Dame juniors, the only class level eligible to apply, filled out the application this year, according to Preacher. 
"It's a daunting process. You have to think about what you want to be doing in the next five years. the next 10 years," said Preacher. 
Applicants must also write a public policy proposal as part of the initial process. For hers, Essex proposed increasing funds for indigent defen­dants. She actually completed her 

Orders may be placedfor your class ring April 2 3 through April 2 7 9:00a.m. to 1O:OOp.m. 
Ring will be availablefor piclr:up after September I. 
I 

HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME 
BCX>KSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
631-6316 

Open Monday through Saturday, 9am -10pm Sunday, 11am -10pm 
application while studying in London during the fall semester. 
Applicants hand their applications and policy proposals into a Notre Dame committee that selects some of the applicants to interview. 
The committee nominates four of the students it interviews to compete nationally for the scholarship. 
Essex was one of the students Notre Dame nominated this year, and she was then selected as a national final­ist. The next step in the process for Essex was to be interviewed by a six­person panel. which included a U.S. district court judge. Shortly after her interview, University President Father Edward Malloy informed Essex that she had been named a Truman Scholar. 
Essex is the first Notre Dame stu­dent since 1997 to win the Truman scholarship. 
Preacher said she hopes that more Notre Dame students will apply for the scholarship in the future. 
"We have lots of students like Eden on the campus that are truly remark­able and I wish they would all apply," Preacher said. 
Preacher added that the Truman Foundation's commitment to public services "meshes well" \-\ith a similar dedication to service common among Notre Dame students. 
In addition to receiving $30,000, Essex will also participate in a week­long session this summer with fell ow Truman Scholars. The session will cover leadership and policy topic.5. 
Holtz 
continued from page 1 
motivation." 
Among the keys that Holtz said he believes are essential to success are attitude, having a passion for what you do, understanding what it is you are trying to do, 
being a rec ­ogniz­i n g that 
y O U 
c a n 
either be a per ­
s o n 
who I i ft s 
people up or pulls peo­ple down. Attitude is a choice, Holtz said. 
"What makes a person successful is if they have an attitude of •1 can do things,"' said Holtz. "If you have that attitude, 
dreamer and 
"What makes a person 

able," 
successful is ifthey have s a i d Holtz.
an attitude of'/ can do 

A ft er
things . .,, 

t h e 
experi­
e n c e
Lou Holtz 

with the
fonner head football coach 

J e t s , 
H o I t z was offered a position as head coach for the University of Minnesota's football team, a job he said no one wanted and was turned down even by a man who didn't have any other job offers. 
anything is possible." 
He cited attitude as a major factor in his suc­cess and happiness throughout his career. At one point in his career, Holtz signed a five-year contract with the New York Jets, but left after only eight months with the team. 
"Everyone said that the job with the Jets was one of the best jobs in the United States, but I was miser­

It's all the buzz 
Get your head together. Crop it, color it, curl it comb it, chunk it, crunch it. 

• 
not 
m1a&MOXX 
HAIR STUDIO 
University Park Mall 
219.277.4427 


ATION 
Friday, April 20, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Colombia rebels free hostages: 
Colombia's second-largest guerrilla group freed 34 Colombians working at U.S-run oil field, ending a three-day kidnapping the rebels said was meant to protest government petroleum policies. The mass release came hours after the insurgents, the 5,000-strong National Liberation Army, or ELN, announced they were walking away from on-again, off-again peace negotiations with the government. 
Blast rocks Palestinian police area: 
An explosion rocked a building in the West Bank town of Ramallah where Force 17, an elite Palestinian security unit, has an office. Three officers were wounded. At first the Palestinians said the damage was caused by an Israeli rocket, but later admitted that the blast came from inside. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Arsonist sets Fla. Gulf Coast fires: 
An arsonist set a dozen fires that threatened homes on Florida's parched Gulf Coast on Thursday, further taxing firefighters who are trying to tame 5,000-acre wildfire. One home was destroyed and dozens of homes and vehi­cles were damaged by the arson fires that burned a total of 500 acres south of Tampa. Scores of residents were evacuated. 
Teen indicted in Dartmouth case: 
One of two Vermont teenagers accused of stabbing to death two Dartmouth College pro­fessors was indicted Thursday on first-degree murder charges. A grand jury charged Robert Tulloch, 17. with two counts of murder in the Jan. 27 deaths of Half and Susanne Zantop in their Hanover home. An arraignment date was not immediately set. Prosecutors are try­ing to certify his co-defendant, James Parker, 16, as an adult before seeking an indictment against him. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Two Petersburg EMT's murdered: 
Co-workers arriving at a Petersburg ambulance barn Thursday morning found two emergency medical technicians dead, the apparent victims of a double homicide. Authorities would not reveal how they died until after an autopsy, which was being conducted Thursday night at the Vanderburgh County Morgue in Evansville. A colleague of the victims said both had been shot. The bodies of Marsha Rainey, 44, of Petersburg and Bradley Maxwell, 22, of Otwell were found about 6:45 a.m. during a shift change at the ambulance barn. 
Market Watch April 19 

Dow 
10,693.71 +77.88 

Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 209 NIA 

AMEX: 898.02 -256 NASDAQ: 2,182.14 +102.70 NYSE: 628.83 +281 S&P 500: 1,253.70 +1554 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +6.04 +2.75 48.3G ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +13.39 +2.40 20.32 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +S.47 +0.98 18.91 ERICSSON LM-ADR (ERICY) +12 .03 -+e. 76 7 .08 INTEL CORP (INTC) +3.87 +1.21 32.49 
SOUTH AFRICA 

Drug companies withdraw! lawsuit 
Myers Squibb and GlaxoSmithKline. delight at the agreement and said the 
Associated Press 

..And I think it will embolden people credit should go to "the wisdom and 
PRETORIA in developing countries around the perseverance" of the parties and "the 
In a move activists hoped would world to stand up for medicines that constructive intervention" of South lead to a flood of affordable AIDS are affordable." African President Thabo Mbeki. medication to Africa, the pharmaceu­South Africa agreed to consult the Annan said he hoped the decision tical industry dropped its suit industry when it draws up regula­would help make medicine for AIDS Thursday challenging a South tions for the 1997 law and reiterated and other diseases more affordable African law many say would allow its long-stated promise not to breach and widely available. and would the government to import or produce international trade agreements, open "a new era of cooperation generic versions of the drugs. according to a joint statement issued between governments and the pri­
However, the government said it by both sides. vate sector in the struggle for better had no plans to buy generic drugs The agreement was praised around health care throughout the develop­and implied a widespread program the world by groups including the ing world," U.N. deputy spokesman to provide AIDS medication for the World Health Organization, Medicins Manuel de Almeida e Silva said in 
4.7 million South Africans infected Sans Frontieres, the World Trade New York. with HIV remained a long way off. Organization and the International When hearings began on the case 
Activists packing the courtroom in Federation of Pharmaceutical six weeks ago, the pharmaceutical Pretoria exploded in cheers and song Manufacturers Associations. companies came under intense when lawyers for the more than "Instead of debating the issue with international pressure to back down three dozen major pharmaceutical each other in court and in the media, and watched their reputations bat­companies suing South Africa with­we can now work together to provide tered amid criticism they were drew their lawsuit. better health care to the citizens of putting profits above the lives of the 
"There is no doubt that they have South Africa," said Harvey Bale, nearly 26 million people infected received a black eye," Mark Heywood director general of the federation. with HIV in Africa. In response. many of the group Treatment Action U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, of the companies that make AIDS Campaign said of the companies, who played a key role in bringing medication offered them to develop­which include giants Merck, Bristol-both sides together. expressed ing countries at or below cost. 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
In a war of videos, Beijing is showing its own tape of U.S. fighter pilots flying close to Chinese jets, much as the Pentagon has been using its video show to portray China as the aggressor over the South China Sea. 
The Chinese played their video Thursday during the second day of talks in Beijing on who is to blame for the April 1 collision of a Navy surveillance plane and a Chinese fighter jet that was shadowing it. Pentagon officials dis­missed the tape as mis­leading and irrelevant. 
The Chinese footage, apparently shot last year, showed U.S. Navy F-14 and F/A-18 fighters near what appeared to be the Chinese coastline. It seemed to have been shot from the cockpit of a Chinese plane, and an American pilot can be seen taking pictures back. 
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue said the video depicted "dangerous and aggressive" U.S. flying. 
The Pentagon's spokesman, Rear Adm. Craig Quigley, disagreed. 
"That showed clearly the F-14 and F/A-18s that were in the proximity of whatever type of Chinese aircraft it was -I assume it was a jet -... and what you saw was quite a civil distance being main­tained," he said. 
Quigley said the video was shot in such a way as to distort the distance between the American and Chinese planes. 
"They were pretty quick with the zoom button on the video camera, and it brought the aircraft much closer, but I think the starting point of the video that they showed indeed showed the U.S. aircraft at what we would consider a prudent distance from the Chinese aircraft. and that's all we're asking for in this case is prudent. non-aggressive, non-threaten~ ing flying," he added. 

The Chinese video was released as a counterpoint to an American video shown at a Pentagon news conference last week by Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld in which the pilot of a Chinese F-8 fighter is shown flying out­side the wing of an American turboprop sur­veillance aircraft off the Chinese coast earlier this year. Rumsfeld said it proved that Chinese pilots had been flying danger­ously close to American surveillance aircraft in international airspace even before the Aptil 1 collision. 
-------~~~-~..---~-----------------------------------------­
Friday, April 20, 2001 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
their doors. They create weekly rituals. They all become best friends. 
Carroll 
This is what Carroll's former hall president Bob LeBlanc said about thecontinued from page I dorm's spirit: "Due to this small size, 
This is what Casey Grabenstein said to the Rector Brian Coughlin when he walked into the "sauna," a shower han­dle had fallen off, and Grabenstein and Patrick Brennan were trying to stop the water from squirting out at full force: "I didn't do it... 
This is what other students do to relieve stress after finals week: leave their dorm. 
This is what some Carroll residents do to entertain themselves: they acciden­tally light fires. 
This is what the 
housekeeping lady said 
to Jimmy Mandich "Due to this small size, who aren't even liv­when he was running everyone in Carroll in-g here next year?" This is why those
through the hallway knows each other, and a 
Carroll residents

with a trash can 
friendly, family-like 
engulfed in flames: attended the lottery: nothing, she simply atmosphere pervades the because they support opened the door. dorm.,, each other whenever 
This is why Mandich possible. At 
was running through Bookstore basketball Bob LeSlan games. Before big
the hallway with a burning trash can: he Carroll's fonner hall president tests. Even during 
was refilling a Zippo lighter and unknowing­ly dropped lighter fluid into the trash can. Then, on a dare, he lit a piece of paper and when it was almost gone, dropped the flame into the trashcan. It instantly caught the entire can on fire. 
This is why the housekeeping lady and students jogging around the lake did not question Mandich running with a burning trash can: events like this are somewhat normal at Carroll. 
This is what Brennan asked the Grab'n'Go lady as he ran into the base­ment of South Dining Hall: "Can I still get lunch too?" 
This is what Brennan took from Grab'n'Go for both lunch and dinner: three orange juice boxes, cereal, a milk, a container of yogurt, a banana, a bag 

of chips, a bag of popcorn and a sandwich. This is how many times a 
week Brennan and most Carroll residents actually eat inside the dining hall: one or two. 
This is how many times the average Notre Dame student eats in a dining hall per week: between 10 and 12. 
This is why Mandich said the Carroll men often eat at Wendy's on U.S. 31 instead of at South Dining Hall: "Our cars are closer than the dining hall. And we dig red heads." 
This is what happens when 107 men spend the majority of their time secluded together: they get to know everyone in the dorm. They never close everyone in Carroll knows each other, and a friendly. family-like atmosphere pervades the dorm." 
This is what Patrick Laboe said about the Taco Bell employees who informed him that there were no 49 cent tacos left to take back to Carroll for the week­ly ritual, Sunday Night Taco Bell: "I think they were lying." 
This is what rector Coughlin said when several Carroll residents, who won't even live on campus next year. showed up at the room picks lottery with signs to cheer for their best friends: "Why in the world are people here 
video games. 

This is why Dan Soldato wanted Carroll Hall to create a new signature event: "Ever since we lost the Haunted House, we kept think­ing about what could do for a new dorm event." This is what the event, "Fusic," accomplished in its first year: approxi­mately 500-700 people came to eat from several different food booths and hear various bands. From the proceeds, Carroll Hall was able to donate $1,000 to the Make a Wish Foundation. 
This is what Soldato said about the event, which will be held on Carroll's front lawn from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday: "It was a great day for Carroll Hall, becc3:use normally we don't have that much attendance at a dorm event." 
This is what the Carroll men used to 

To two 
awesome 
girls, Mr. T. 
and Debby! 
There must be some­thing special •:irtt':
·1 :,:::;,;:;;::::;:.:;:::;

about Apn .:::·>·?' ' 
·20th 
Lov 
·n, Lisa, and To 
make the 90 by 30 foot banner which was hung on the hall during several home games: 72 bed sheets, 70,000 sta­ples, five gallons of paint, 1,000 feet of twine, 15 cinder blocks and 90 feet of pipe. 
These are the stores the Carroll men had to visit to find 72 bed sheets: two Walmarts, two Meijers, a Target and a Kmart. 
This is how long it took the guys to complete the project: it was all done within a 15-hour period. 
This is what an NBC announcer said during one of the three times the ban­ner appeared on national television: "That's a very big house with a lot of school spirit." 
This is why the NBC 


AVAILABLE FOR THE 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR LEASING NOW DOMUS PROPERTIES 
CONTACT KRAMER (219) 298-9673 OR (219) 234-2436 OR (219) 674u2571 
1!:a========="""""""""""'........----------------------·--··-·-----------·--­
HOMES FOR RENT 
2002 -2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
-DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 2, 41 5, 6, 7, 8 9 &10 
BEDROOM HOUSES AVAILABLE -STUDENT NEIGHBORSHOODS -CLOSE TO CAMPUS -SECURITY SYSTEMS PROVIDED -WELL MAINTA.NED HOMES -MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL ...WASHER AND DRYERS 

Courtesy of Carroll Hall Carroll residents created a 90 by 30 foot banner in support of the Irish during football season and wrapped it around the entrance of the dorm. 
announcer's comment is true: in 2000­2001, the men of Carroll Hall did show spirit and enthusiasm, both within the hall itself and for the entire Notre Dame community. 
This is what former hall president Tim Dosal says about Carroll's hall gov­ernment: "Our first goal was always to serve the men of Carroll hall ... but then we tried to go out and serve the entire Notre Dame community." 
This is why Jorissen, a junior, has no desire to move off campus next year: "And leave all this? No thank you." 
' \. 
page 7

Friday, April 20, 200 I The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS 
Conference examines character 
Special to the Observer 
At a time when many won­der whether participation in athletics develops character or characters, the Mendelson Center for Sport, Character & Culture at Notre Dame will examine the topic in its inau­gural conference May 10-12. 
Titled "Sport, Character and Culture: Promoting Social and Moral Development Through Sport," the conference will bring together leading figures in athletics, the media and academia who are committed to the potential of sports to build character but concerned about the growing number of problems in youth, collegiate and professional athletics. 
The conference will begin with a reception, book fair and dinner at 6 p.m. May 10 at Century Center in downtown South Bend. Parents, coaches, athletes and other interested community members are invit­ed join conference participants at the event, which will feature a keynote address by Fred Hickman, an award-winning journalist for CNN and host of "More Than a Game," a weekly television show focusing on the positive side of sports. Tickets are $35 and can be reserved by calling [219] 631-6691. 
Peyton Manning, quarterback for the Indianapolis Colts and national spokesman for the NCAA's character education program in elementary schools, will formally open the confer­ence with a talk at 8:15 a.m. May 11 in McKenna Hall on campus. 
Other featured presentations will be made by: 
. 
Joan Duda, professor of sports psychology at the University of Birmingham, an adjunct professor at Purdue University and the president­elect of the Association for the Advancement of Applied Sport Psychology 

. 
Richard Lapchick, a widely 


NEWS BRIEF 
Unidentified male falls down Nieuwland stairs: An unidentified male fell down the stairs of Nieuwland Science Hall at 7:53 
p.m. Thursday. He was taken to the emergency room of St. Joseph Medical Center and treated for a head injury. said Notre Dame Security/Police. Although he had no identification on him, police believe he is a student and multi­ple officers walked door-to-door through campus 
quoted expert in the field and the founder and director of the Center for the Study of Sport in 
Society  at  Northeastern  
University  
. Holly  Metcalf,  a  1984  

Olympic gold medalist in row­ing who created the "Row as One Institute," an organization committed to developing an empowering and safe learning environment for women and girls of all cultures, back­grounds and abilities through recreational and competitive rowing 
. 
Jay Coakley, professor of sociology an·d former director of the Center for the Study of Sport and Leisure at the University of Colorado 

. 
Brenda Bredemeier and David Shields, codirectors of the Mendelson center and nationally recognized leaders in the study of the relationship between· sport participation and character development 



residence halls with a Polaroid picture of the vic­tim in an attempt to idenlify him Thursday night. "He was student-aged, in Nieuwland around 7:30 at night, and he was wet so he might have been in the lake," said Dave Austin, midnight captain for University Security/Police. Police said he was still unconscious at press time. Police also suspect that the victim was intoxicated. The nursing supervisor at St. Joseph Medical Center, howev­er, could not confirm his condition. 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
The Students' 1st choice in Off-Campus Housing 
The RecSpys Are Coming!

DON'T WAIT APPLY TODAY!!!! 
P: 272-8124 


Music at the Basilica 
A Concert of 
Sacred Music for 
the Easter Season 
CM 
Campus Ministry 


Keenan, Zahm Halls unite for fundraiser 
that it is an act of faith and By JASON McFARLEY hope for Wally's safe return," News Editor 
said Chris Martin, Keenan 
Hall president. 

Two Notre Dame residencf:! Martin said he hopes to gar­halls are taking a unique tack ner campus-wide participa­to raise funds for a local tion in the event through the agency and at the same time Hall Presidents Council. HPC pray for a former student's members represent each of well being. the University's 27 residence 
T h e halls. Dismas ··1f everyone
"We want the fundraiser 

H o u s e on campus 
fund raiser to be a living prayer in gave just $2, is this 
the sense that it is an act we could raise week, and the money in
offaith and hope for 

residents of time," he
no 
Keenan and Wally's safe return.,. 
said. 
Zahm halls 

The 10-day are asking project wraps
Chris Martin 
students to 

up April 27.
Keenan Hall president
donate at 
least $2 in the dorms' effort to raise $15,000. Proceeds from the campaign will benefit Dismas of Michiana, a South Bend organization that reintro­duces released prisoners into society. 
Organizers of the fundraiser have assigned another pur­pose to the endeavor, tagging it as a living prayer for 2000 Notre Dame graduate Wally Poirier. 
Poirier, a former Zahm Hall president and Dismas staff member, was last seen around Feb. 22 in La Paz, Bolivia, where he was a Peace Corps volunteer. 
"We want the fundraiser to be a living prayer in the sense 

Notre Dame 
students have been involved with Dismas for about 14 years, according to Rob Sambosky, house coordi­nator for the organization at 521 S. St. Joseph St. He said students have traditionally volunteered as cooks and tutors for Dismas house resi­dents. 
Sambosky said the fund­raiser comes at a critical point for Dismas. 
"The exterior of the building needs to be painted or siding needs to be put on it," Sambosky said. 
He said he would like to see repairs for the historic house, built in 1895, completed by winter. 
~ RUNAWAY BAY 
Top 10 Reasons You'll Feel At Home 
10. Convenient office hours. We are open every day of the week. 
9. As a resident you will be issued a private access card fot admittance to our fully-eq~ipped exercise room and pool facilities..Conveniently open from 6:00 am to 11:00 pm 

8. Our clause welcomes paws. At RUNAWAY BAY your pets are a welcome addition to the community. 
f{ 7. Your environment will be esthetically pleasing. Our property exhibits an idyllic setting; tall trees, velvety green lawns and the tranquil resonance.of our waterfalls. 

.6. At RUNAWAY BAY you'll feel comfortable and secure. Our ~ " 'property features 24 h~ur emergency maintenance and on-site 
( '· ...· '·.: 

. ·sec\lnty. . , . . . ', ... -;. ·.~..... -. ;..,. · :.~11__;_.)':ou'can get back to _nature! Our property is surrounded by 
•/;:;· 2lakes, a gazebo, v.:aterfalls and a variety of wildlife. 
. •· 1.i" 
·(;· Enjoy a serene lifestfi~. After hours we observe ·..-:' ~. a quiet hourpolicyt~. . 
t•·, 

' . i Travel time to your."i~po~.mt destinations will always be less ·,-._than expected. R~-,_wAY BAY is within proximity to nearly · · everything! :·· _ 
2. Your social calen~ will be full. Meet new frien~ at our residents events. •i-c. 

1.And the n~one ttasOn you'll feel at home at 
•• I 
RUNAWAY BAY APARTMENTS:.• 

Y~'ll become a~ofa great community tbat ...-. . you ca11 call HOME/ 
. ~ us todaylw'7'll make y~u feel at home. 
-_:-.'_.. (ZJ9) 256-1350 
'.. _\:. ·_ ~n:pjlwww.runaway-bay.co"m 



page 8 
Friday, April 20, 200 I 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
As.'>1. MANAGING EDITOR  
Kerry Smith  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Pat McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradter SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT M.ARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff. PHOTO EDITOR: Pecer Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MA."'JAGER/GENERAL INF0.•••••••••••.•631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING......................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHI£F........................................63l-4542 MANAGING EmmR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE ........................................ 631-53l3 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu 

VIEVVPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 

SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc.l@nd.edu PHOT0 ........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobservt'T'.nd.tdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-rhe 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du uc and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comem, including adverrisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obstrverpolicm shoul.d be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 
My preparations for next semester and return to the United States have begun. Over the past two weeks, I have picked classes, finalized rooming plans and chosen a date on which to fly home, the 15th of June. The calen­dar on my desk screams April. I will board that plane in less than two months. Time flies. 
Yet time simulta­neously crawls along at a snail's pace. I lived the eternal month of October. 
After living in close quarters with my Notre Dame friends dur­ing the month of September in Salzburg, I had to reckon with this foreign country alone. English-speak­ing companions no longer offered me moral support each time that I entered a grocery store and tried to spit out German words. I communicat­ed with my Austrian roommate and my host family only with great difficul­ty. 
As I struggled to find a place in Innsbruck, I along with all the Notre Dame students fought the time differ­ence between the United States and Austria. Calls could only be made when the schedules here agreed with the schedules of family members six to 10 hours in the past. 
As Audra Sterling remarked, ··1rs difficult to call home or my friends. When it's six o'clock here, it's only 12 at home. A lot of times, I have to wait until midnight or later before I can get a hold of anyone." 

The news in America happens dur-. ing the night in Austria. Each day CNN Berlin reports the events of yesterday in my home country. During every tomorrow in which I learned the American news from today, I could feel that expanse of the blue Atlantic Ocean grow. · 
And as my perceived distance from the United States increased, my mind opened to a change in perspective. I gained a new outlook on the manage­ment of time. 
My prioritization of its use altered. A completely new world laid beyond my German books. I am not alone in this change in perspective. 
Responding to my question as to whether the months in Austria had effected a change in her outlook on the use of time and time management, Liz Furey noted, ..I think that people are more laid back here. We're not expected to cram so many things into a small amount of time. You don't have to do it all whereas where I am from everyone is run, run, run." 
She offered dinner as a favorable example of the difference. "You have to wait quite a while for your check because dinner is more of an event than a refueling." 
The cultural difference in the use of time between the United States and Europe derives in part from the greater history. the greater amount of time behind the European countries. Looking out from the other side of the Atlantic Ocean, America appears the lan·d of everything young and modern. 
"Almost every building in Austria is neat. New buildings here are 200 years old, but in the United States that would be old," remarked Ms. Housing. "They also don't go out of their way to modernize things here. Houses still look old even if they are brand new. I think it goes with a deeper tradition." Europeans laugh as they view the rel­atively sparkling new Independence Hall in Philadelphia. 


The time spent within this deeper culture further effected a change in the Innsbruckers' outlook on our home. Ms. Sterling explained that the months in Innsbruck had "really made me appreciate being an American citi­zen, but it also made me see how closed-minded Americans are. 
Most Americans only know one lan­guage." In Europe, the languages mesh and intertwine forcing the citi­zens of each state to at least familiar­ize themselves with other methods of expression. 
And finally, the passage of time this year altered perspectives on our­selves. Dave Fiorini, a junior, named this year a •·transition time." The thought of stepping onto campus in the fall with only a year of college remaining has forced him to consider life beyond school. 
Indeed, many of our lessons learned during this year in Austria dealt with the passage of time. with the effect of the movement of the minute and the hour hand on society. culture and our­selves. 
The lesson and the European adven­ture continue for two fleeting months, a few short weeks that I intend to enjoy to the fullest. 
Joanna Mikulski is a sophomore who is currently spending the year in Innsbruck, Austria. Her column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT  
OUR COMPANY VALUES ARE TRUST, INTEGRITY AND TEAf"'\l..JORK.  FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MY LIFE I FEEL THE WARM GLOW OF UNCONDITIONAL LOVE!  

r,..r,...,._... .; 
0 
N 
------L..:...JIJ 
0 
SCOTT ADAMS 
YOU'RE UNDER A HEATING VENT. 
OH ...WELL, 
THAT'S GOOD 
TOO . 
\.__ 
~ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"There is more to life than increasing its speed... 
Mahatma Gandhi activist 
.; 
C 
i
•
.. 
;; 
C
... 
UI 
~ 
::, 
... ii• 
.., 
~ 
C 
::, 
------..-.­


O
THE Friday, April 20, 200 I BSERVER page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

campus security 
You wake up for another delightful day of classes. You shower, dress, grab your books and head off to class. Since the University has not used its $237 trillion endowment to install moving sidewalks you need another means of getting to DeBartolo. "Ah, trusty bicycle," you think as you head toward the bike racks. But as you approach the spot where you last left your bike, you freeze. 
Alarm and fear suffocate your soul, for your bike is gone. "Where is my bike?" you inquire. "Biike, biiikke!" you call, but your bike will not call back. It will not come wheeling over. It is gone. It has been stolen. You begin to weep because you want your bike. You want to ride it. Alas you are forced to walk to class. 
The above story plays itself out day after day at the University of Notre Dame. It might be a bicycle. It might be a calculator. It might be a laptop, a textbook, a student ID. Whatever it is, it might be yours. 
I'm talking about theft. Pilfering. Filching. Lifting, swiping, purloination, absconda­tion. Stealing, on our once-proud campus. 
When I first came here I thought to myself, "Notre Dame, now that's a swell place. A safe place. A place where I can trust people. A place where I can leave a shiny quarter on the ground with a sign that says 'Do not take' and by golly it will be there when I get back." 
How wrong I was. A couple weeks ago I faced a grievous loss. And just this morn­ing, I was slapped with a ransom note on my bedroom door. My property was stolen. I lost a treasured possession of mine, my friend Brewskie. Brewskie is a large inflat­able dinosaur. Go ahead and laugh because you probably won't understand and I'm not about to explain it here. 
I cherished his wily grin. I can only pray that he is alive and well. You're probably thinking, "What? So some lamewad with issues lost his toy." But that's not the point. 
The point is that Notre Dame is facing a problem. Our stuff, our precious stuff, is disappearing, bike by bike, calculator by calculator. bit by bit, Brewskie by Brewskie. To me, what has happened to Brewskie is symbolic of what is missing at this University. 
Respect for other people's property, and an effort on the part of Notre Dame security to even care. I want my Brewskie back. I want the safety of my possessions back. I want this University to be safe. But mostly I want my Brewskie back. 
Brewskie, come home! 
Christopher Fuchs 
senior off-campus April 19, 2001 

Take time to find out about the issues that affect our lives 
I am writing in direct response to 
Gina Maccarone's letter to the editor 
that appeared in yesterday's edition 
of The Observer. 
I would like to challenge Gina as well as the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and South Bend community to look at Timothy Thomas's death within a larger context. 
The guest column by Sarah Turner on Wednesday was not as Gina naively assumes one of a personal nature. Sarah Turner did not have it out for the police officer who shot Thomas. Sarah was not angry with one police officer in one city for one mistake. She is voicing a concern about our justice system as well as our nation as a whole. 
People do make mistakes and Gina is right -no system is perfect. But the reality of our situation is much worse than pointing out a few mis­takes. The reality of our situation is one of a much dire consequence. 
There are 1.8 million men between the ages of 18 and 25 in our prison system today -a system which is increasingly becoming a private, for profit system. Eighty percent of this 
1.8 million are black or Latino. And 60 percent of these men are in )ail not for violent crimes like one might suspect but for drug violations. 
The problems in our justice system as the above statistics show are not individual. They are systematic. They are not as Maccarone would like to claim "mistakes" made by a small minority. 
Thousands of police officers across the nation are making the same "mistake" at the same time for the same reasons. This reality is not a 

coincidence. It is real. It is hard. It is 
violent. But most importantly it is 
racial profiling. · 

And the worst part about the whole situation is that this reality ­a reality that injures and threatens the majority as well as the minority's spiritual center -is not being reported. 
People are not discussing these problems. They are not investigating their reality. They are not challeng­ing themselves to think outside of the box that has been created for them. 
In light of these circumstances I challenge my community to seek out different ways of knowing. I chal­lenge students, professors and administrators to invest time and energy into these problems. 
Reread Sarah Turner's viewpoint ofApril 18 and ask yourself what exactly happened in Seattle last November. Look through the AP wire articles and question the way news is being reported. . 
Do you know what is happening in Quebec right now? Do you know why it's being reported the way it is? . Whose interests are being protect­ed? Whose are being denied? And for what reasons? 
Find the answers to this questions. Take the time to care, at least before defending a system you know noth­ing about. 
Maureen Capillo 
le Mans Hall April 19, 2001 
Spend a week away from your television 
Television news media plays an important part in This should come as no surprise, especially given our for people to stop and think about the influence of cer­keeping American's healthy. It advises us of the dangers collective exposure to commercially generated fads like tain factors on their lives. In addition to making a gener­posed by tobacco products, the threat posed by arsenic those obnoxious pre-ripped jeans or the marketplace al statement about the role television plays in American laced drinking water and the cancer risk associated with prevalence of environmentally irresponsible products life taking a week off from television offers an occasion the use of personal electronics. There is however one like SUVs. for each of us to reclaim time which would otherwise be health advisory that is not likely to run on the 10:00 Television plays an important role in the communica-lost to an antisocial, unproductive and generally unre­news: television can be bad for you. tion of these questionable corporate interests and an warding activity. Here at Notre Dame with the end of the 
The excessive use of any product can turn it into a risk, even more important role in making them an integral school year fast approaching, National TV Turnoff and America's television viewing habits are excessive by and accepted part ofour lives. .---Week is a great chance to spend some time with any measure. In America, the average person watches Advertising is the most obvious form these lh your friends, significant other or school work about four hours of television a day. An average student transmissions take. Most televised news ·"" before summer arrives. is apt to spend over a thousand hours watching television shows devote close to 30 percent of their Television is not unlike alcohol: intelli­annually (versus about 900 hours spent in school) and an allotted half-hour broadcast time to ,._.._~.._.,, gent, moderate use can be great and average American will have seen some two million com­advertisements (anyone who has ever ~~..•••••• tremendous fun. Hour upon hour, week 
mercials by the age of 65. watched televised news in the South after week spent staring at a flickering 
The time spent by Americans in front of the television Bend area can certainly attest to this). screen can -like spending every night is concerning, in general terms, for its negative impact This means that an average television at the Backer -have a profoundly neg-on the health of the country. Perhaps unsurprisingly, viewer is likely to be blasted by over an ative impact on our lives as individuals television is linked to obesity in men, women and chil­hour of advertisements per day.· This is and as members of society. dren. Children are especially vulnerable to the effects of clearly not without its consequences -With all of this in mind, we hope that television: the more TV, the worse the grades. Reading both immediate and far-reaching. ,-.-•llllliiiiiiiii-.. you will join us in celebrating National skills in particular suffer. It is concern for these consequences TV Turnoff Week. 
The greatest detrimental effects of television are felt on and an awareness of the negative impact If you are interested in finding out more American social health. Most people have been exposed television has on American society which has about National TV Turnoff Week, really inter-to the "violence in the media" debate, particularly in the prompted the creation of National TV Turnoff ____ esting and peculiar TV-free activities or merely wake of the recent string of school shooting incidents. Week. analyzing the statistics contained herein so you can Strong evidence exists correlating televised violence with National TV Turnoff\Veek is April 23 through 29. It is complain that the various studies don't actually report real world violence, especially among children. Another a serious effort supported by the Surgeon General, the what we say they report, three great web sites that can equally concerning. if less publicized, problem is the cre­American Academy of Pediatrics, the Girl Scouts and get you started are: http://www.adbusters.org/cam­ation and perpetuation of negative gender stereotypes. many other groups and individuals. More importantly it paigns/Murnoff, http://"'ww.mediaed.org and 
Most insidious of television's many etTects is its role in is a perfect opportunity for the Notre Dame community http://www.Murnoff.org the commercialization of both society and the individual. to take a break from television. It's an opportunity for all During his presentation at IUSB a few weeks ago, Ralph of us to sober up from the constant barrage of advertise­The Notre Dame Environmental Law Society Nader observed that virtually from birth our identities ments. violence, stereotypes and bad programming. April 19. 2001 are shaped and effected by corporate interests. Not unlike Lent, TV Turnoff Week presents a chance 

C s 

O
THE 

page 10 BSERVER Friday, April 20, 2001 
You've gott 
Campus prepares for Fisher Hall's annual cc 
events on campus. The Regatta this 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
weekend will be the 15th time Fisher 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Hall has presented the event at Notre Dame. The Fisher Regatta is no ordinary
Spring is in the air (well, sometimes 

boat race. Each year, the hordes of
it's snow, but mostly it's spring). The 
vessels built by Notre Dame students
entire campus buzzes with activity. 
descend upon Saint Mary's Lake to
Barefooted basemen play Whiffle Ball 
compete in a race across its short
on North Quad and Frisbee fanatics 
length. Of course, no conventional
swarm on South. But, as the student 
boats such as canoes, rowboats or
body tries to soak up the sparse rays 
sailboats are allowed.
from the South Bend sky, Fisher Hall 
In fact, Regatta tradition mandates
is gearing up to ring in the spring with 
that the vessels be "homemade." This
style. One word is on every 
invariably means that the boats are
Fisherman's lips this week: regatta. 
crafted out of rather interesting mate­
Fisher Hall's annual regatta began 

rials such as Styrofoam, empty cans
in 1987 as an event to raise dorm spir­
and various pieces of dorm furniture
it. Now, the yearly boat race is one of 
or on whatever the students can lay
the biggest and most anticipated 

The crew of "I Touch Myself" begins construction of their Regatta boat Wednesday afternoon. The Walsh Hall residents are confident that their ship, built from Styrofoam and duct tape, can steal the Regatta Cup from last year's women's division champion, Badin Hall. 
their hands. 
Each dorm may enter as many boats as it wishes. The boats compete in a men's and women's speed category and a "best in show" category. But only the speed category lands the ulti­mate prize: the elusive Fisher Hall Regatta Cup, which is presented to the winning dorm for a period of one year. 
The men's trophy is currently held by the Vermin of Carroll Hall's stellar craft "Wooden Caulk." "Ribbit This" from Badin Hall holds the cup in the women's division. 
Defending the women's cup for Badin is "Just Ribbit," captained by sophomore Meghan Cooney. The boat that is "technically not made yet" will be composed of Styrofoam, duct tape 
and spray paint. The four women on the team are all members of the championship crew of "Ribbit This." 
Cooney was modest in response to challenges on their reign as Regatta champions, "Everything's going to be the same as last year. And we won last year," she said. 
Although she was unwilling to "give away [her team's] secrets," Cooney indicated that she believed the high­tech Styrofoam rudders she and her team designed and implemented may have something to do with the success of "Rib bit This." 
Challenging Badin's title this year is sophomore Sue Varnum and her crew. which will sail "Lewis' Chicks." There will be "four chicks to be exact" said Varnum. "Last year we had a good boat, it was well con­structed, but we didn't paddle fast enough." 
This year Varnum and company will be constructing their boat "like all the other girls' dorms'" out of Styrofoam from "Lowe's or Home Depot ... what­ever's open when we go to the store."· 
. Their secret weapon is a sail, which will (hopefully) give them the added push they need to leap past "Just Ribbit." 

has not exactly been built yet, Schmidt is extremely confident that the team will "win the entire thing" this year. "We built our boat an hour before the race last year, and we did just fine," Schmidt said. 
The five-woman crew of "I Touch 
Myselr' plans to upset the Badin crew that beat them last year. 
"[We were] elimi­nated by the 
defending champi­
"fRibbit This] beat "Everything is going to be 

ons last year, but it 
us last year because the same as last year. And 

was just bad luck 
we just couldn't get 

we won last year. ·· that we had to go
it together," Varnum 

against them in the
said. "Lewis' Chicks" 

first round."
does not intend to Meghan Cooney 

The Observer
let that happen Captain of the "Just Ribbit" was unable to con­
again. 
"Just Ribbit" and "Lewis' Chicks" will also be taking on one of the more confident members of the race, Walsh Hall's "I Touch Myself." Captained by sophomore Melinda Redding, "I Touch Myself' is composed of "Styrofoam and various duct tape stylings," said crewmember Jen Schmidt. 
Although she ad~its that the boat 


tact Carroll Hall's team which will sail "Wooden Caulk" again, 
although rumor has it that junior cap­tain Steven Bomeli will be out on the lake Saturday to defend the cup from the likes of senior captain Kevin Murray's "Dawg E. Style'' from Alumni Hall. "Dawg E. Style II" was 1999's winning boat in the men's division. 
The Regatta is not all about speed, 
Pt·f2(>XES Phat Girls In a f_,tttle. Boat Team [)ochs/The Floater l\:fade J Kelly Faehale Bnan J Zampen Tiff: 
Rachel We1lei-iOm.st1ne C.1osz 
Lyons Hail Stanford Hall FcSI 
F~n2hom Hall 

Das Boot}' \\7ith a \lengeance Sparky's Speedboat
·-Just Ribbit 

Kurt Kurple Judy ~,toran ~1e~han C~oonev 
~. -Keenan Han Pasquenlla East Hall 
Badin Hall 

Seattle~ .p.c~, Quebec~ O"Neill Fidel ~ El Castro~ 
\llild \1lomen Joe Smith Jose Fabrega 
Katie rvtcC.arthy <)9 Neill Hall Sorin Hall 
Walsh Hall 
'I 
\..._ 

C ~ p ,, ~ 

u s 

O
THE Friday, April 20, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
:a Regatta 
Jntest of speed, style and seaworthiness 

though. While the Regatta Cup goes to the fastest boat, many designers, such as Fisher Hall's own Chris Boehnen, believe that it is the "Best in Show" category that is most important. Boehnen along with co-designer and fellow sophomore Jeff Goett have spent the last month and a half creat­ing the Fisher Hall flagship "The Jolly Piggott" -named after the donor of 
"The Regatta is one ofthe notes with their
the materials -to make the 400-pound best dorm sponsored roommate. If both 
contestants'

mammoth. events on campus because 
answers match, they

"The Jolly Piggott" 
it is one ofthe only ones score points.
is the first new boat Fisher Hall has built that gets every dorm Questions range 
from knowing your

since 1999. The involved in the event 
roommate's moth­

design· team mod­
itself.,, 
er's maiden name to

eled the vessel to how many times
look like a pirate they brush their
ship, specifically a Dan Slrken 
teeth in a given

Spanish galleon. The 
Fisher Hall co-president 
week.

pirate ship motif is the mascot of the Fisher Regatta. 
Boehnen has never designed a boat before, although he does have experience with the design and development of sets for plays. The design team is not allowed to test their 
boat on either of the campus lakes 
before race day, according to Regatta 
regulations and liabilities to the 
University. 
Boehnen and Goett are not worried. 
They are certain that their design is 
stable. They designed the boat to 
accommodate as many as 12 people. 
"We plan to have as many people [on 
the Jolly Piggott] as can safely fit," 
Boehnen said. 
The Fishermen were reluctant to reveal their entire plan for regatta day. Team secrets are jealously guard­ed, especially in the "Best of Show" category. 
"This mysterious guy from O'Neil has been coming around asking ques­tions about our boat," Boehnen said of their competition. 
Boehnen and Goett know that they will have to live up to some pretty serious competition in the "Best of Show" category. Each year, there are many last minute enteries. Last year, Sorin Hall built a floating basketball court. And who could forget the year that a full-sized barbecue grill was set afloat for a cookout on the water? 
Of course, the fun of the Regatta is not just limited to Saturday. The week before the Regatta is known to the men of the Fishbowl as "Fred and Sally Week." The name, of course, refers to Fred and Sally Fisher whose family name the dorm bears. 
Fred and Sally Week features activi­ties for the residents of Fisher Hall. For example, there is the three-on­three basketball tournament and "The Roommate Game." 
The Roommate Game, reminiscent of the Newly Weds Game, residents are asked questions about their room­mate's behavior. One roommate is asked the questions about himself before the game and he writes the answers on cards. The other room­rn ate is asked to write his answers down during the game and compare 
Also popular is "Red's Mock Awards." This is the time for Fishermen to vote for superlative awards for various resi­dents. Of course, with any Regatta event the categories are anything but 
normal. Categories include: most likely to be seen irt ResLife, dorm drunk, SMC magnet, the Chewbacca award (hairiest guy) and the ever popular (or maybe unpopular) fat chick award. Special write-in awards may also be given at the judge's discretion. 
"Fred and Sally Week is a really good week because it allows us to come together as a dorm where we can get a good laugh at each other all in good fun," Dan Sirken, Fisher Hall co-president, said Sirken will serve as judge of the Red Mock Awards. 
Friday evening is the "Regatta Rally" which is formally known as "The Zoo." Some Fisher residents proclaim unabashedly that the Rally is the best dorm party of the year. 

Fred and Sally Week wraps up with the Regatta on Saturday afternoon and the Outdoor SYR thrown together with Fisher's sister dorm Pangborn Hall Saturday evening. 
"The Regatta is one of the best dorm sponsored events on cam.pus because it is one of the only ones that gets every dorm involved in the event itself," Sirken said. 
Coca Cola, Subway, Papa John's Pizza, Macri's Deli, the Notre Dame Alumni Association and API sponsor the Fisher Regatta. The Regatta begins at 4 p.m. on Saint Mary's Lake. There will be free refreshments provided and all students, faculty and staff members are encouraged to come cheer on their favorite boats. 

Fishermen continue their work on "The Jolly· Piggott." The ship Is the first new boat Fisher Hall has bullt for the Regatta since 1999. The boat, modeled after a Spanish galleon, weighs 400 pounds and Is constructed to carry 12 people, although the crew plans to take as many people as they can ... safely. 
Especially ~or You \\lith Love fy~atelbi..1rg · Hall  I Touch ~lyself _ Melinda Redding \\'al sh Hall  The Jolly.1'iggottJef{,Qoett .• ·­Asher Hall  
Le\'lis~ Chicks Sue Varru1n1  Da\vg E Style Kevin ~furray  
Lewis Jiau  Ahunrn Hall  
Comin~ From Behind  St Ed~s  
Tom "Smith  Dan Zellar  
Ahnnni Hall  St. Edward's Hall  Information Unavailable for Dillon.  
Keough, PWj and Cavt:nauelt Halls  

Friday, April 20, 2001 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 
Pemchenko tops Oops I Crapped My Pants, 21-18 
By KA THLEEN O'BRIEN 
Senior Staff Writer 
It wasn't pretty, but Pemchenko defeated Oops I Crapped My Pants 21-18 Thursday. 
Oops I Crapped My Pants, playing off the Saturday Night Live commercial for adult dia­pers, came out for the game wearing diapers and nothing more besides shoes and socks. 
"I'm so bad at basketball that I dress up every year," said Oops I Crapped My Pants' Tim O'Brien. "I try to give myself any advantage I can." 
O'Brien, Dan Zach, Brandon Landas, Paul Bishop and Dan "Hacksaw" Duggan have all played Bookstore together before, always wearing some sort of outrageous costume. One year, they were Team Condiment, smearing them­selves in peanut butter. Another year, they taped raw hot dogs to their bodies. 
The diaper costumes drew plenty of attention, along with a few groans. 
"It was definitely appropri­ate for the team name." Pemchenko's John English said. "It was a little intimidat­ing, the outfits they wore." 
Evidently not too intimidat­ing, since English, Chris Matassa, Dave Lubnik, John DiCello and Clete Willems of Pemchenko pulled off the win. 
Pemchenko, which drew its name from the movie The Cutting Edge, took a 12-9 edge early. Oops I Crapped My Pants came back to grab a 13­12 advantage following four straight buckets by Zach, the top player on Oops I Crapped My Pants. Pemchenko found a way to shut Zach down, how­ever, holding him to three more points in the game. 
English and Lubnik paired up to put in most of Pemchenko's points, but the final goal of the game was a lay-in by Matassa off a Willems steal. 

The five members of Pemchenko, who all live in Keenan Hall. had never advanced beyond the second round before last night's victo­ry. 
One plus for Oops I Crapped My Pants was that "Hacksaw" scored the first and only buck­et in his Bookstore career. 
The real diaper dandies were the 10th-ranked Diaper Dandies, a freshman-loaded team with Nik Green. Joe Bellini and football players Carlyle Hol1day, Jerome Collins and Abram Elam on their roster. The Diaper Dandies won 21­12 over Six Guys Who Don't Know in a game that was clos­er than the Dandies expected. "It was a scare," Holiday said. "They were up 12 to 8. We had to pick it up." The Diaper Dandies answered the call, holding Six Guys Who Don't Know without a basket the rest of the game. Natty White Boys started out strong, but wound up on the . short side of a taller, bigger Malicious Prosecution team, with Malicious Prosecution winning 21-17 in a come­from-behind victory. Brian Ford took teammates Dave Baroni. John "Fitzy" Fitzgerald, Ben Ricke and Kyle Trotter of Natty White Boys to a 14-10 lead with his strong play. "That kid [Ford] is a great. player," Rich Weicher of Malicious Prosecution said. "He knocked everything down." But Ford couldn't do every­thing for the Natty White Boys. Malicious Prosecution, with a team of five law students in Matt Barrett, Matt Reiffer, Mark Rule, Dave O'Guinn and Rich Weicher, figured out the key to victory N using their size. Rule and Reiffer, the two tallest players on the court, knocked in the next six points 
Bookstore Basketball Results, April 19 
Team 351 def. Team 59, 21-5 Piece Machines def. Team 22, 21-7 The Meats lingers def. The Coco Butter def. Topeka Destroyers, 21-10 Torch, 21-19 Team 59 def. Feline Taxidermists, 21-7 
If I Could Live Anywhere... def. Hot Damn, 21-15 Duck Butter def. Slim Pickens/We Suck So Bad... , 21-13 Mike Hawk: Shooting From the Hip def. Flying DonKeys, 21-14 Team 303 def. Ballers Comin' Throu~h, 22-20 Teddy s Hard Drive def. One Word: Domination, 21-15 Stanimal's An_gels def.Team 301, 21-11 Team 301 def. The STD's, Forfeit The Pemchenko def. Oops...I Crapped My Pants, 21-17 2 Pals & 3 Other Guys def. Team Skokes, 21-17 

Team 491 def. Team 204, 21-14 Diaper Danqies def. 6 Gurs Who Don t Know..., 21-3 Mulletosis def. Team 524, 24-22 Team 63 def. Team 190, 21-7 CriQPled Squirrel def. Team 10, 17-14 Emergency 911 def. Team 9, 21-17 Hot·Curlers de.f Team 480/187, 21-17 Team 358 def. Team 425, 21-8 Manhorse def. Team 3, 21-9 Team 61 def. Team 161/505, Forfeit Malicious Prosectution def. Team 571/397, 21-17 Team 533 def. Team 24, 21-7 Nunc Dimitis def. 5 Apostles of Funk, 21-14 
Team 396 def. Ron & The Dirty Needles, 21-19 
for their team as Malicious Prosecution worked its way into the lead. 
"We gave it to the big man right there," O'Guinn said of Rule. 
Rule also did the job defen­sively by holding Ford in check late in the game. Malicious Prosecution went on an 11-3 run to close out the game. 
"Since we're not ranked this year," O'Guinn said, "we kind of feel like we're the under­dogs." 
Natty White Boys advanced to the round of 32 with the same five Knott residents a year ago, and was surprised not to be ranked this year. 
"We didn't deserve to play these guys in the second round," Fitzgerald said. "I was surprised that they were not ranked." 
Team 396 dug itself out of a hole to beat Ron and the Dirty Needles 21-19. 
After falling behind 17-11, Steve Nekic, Brian Burke, Mike Whalen, Dave Hynes and Beau Aldridge charged ahead of Ron and the Dirty Needles. holding their opponents to two points down the stretch. 
..Our defense just clamped down and we made big shots," Nekic said. 
Even a Bookstore Basketball game couldn't keep Matt Sarb and Adam Tibble from study­ing for the MCATs. The two walk-on football players had friends on the sidelines throw­ing practice questions at them at every break in the action as their ICU Ballers team beat Napoleon Complex 21-10. 
Sarb and Tibble paired up with Andy Hess, Matt Murphy and fellow football player Tim O'Neill for the victory, but weren't thrilled with their per­formance. 
"We were not nearly up to our potential," Tibble said. It might have been because 

their concentration was else­where. 
While the ICU Ballers may have hoped for a better show­ing, they rolled to the victory. O'Neill had several driving lay-ups in the win and Hess was a solid shooter. 
Rich Amb row, Chad Deveaux. James Rexford. Tim Wendling and Sean Yuzwa had a reason for their loss N their height, or lack thereof. Napoleon Complex called itself the shortest team in the tour­ney. 
"We were just over­matched." Ambrow said. "They had one too many big guys for us." 
"I'd like to congratulate them on the biggest upset in Bookstore history," Deveaux said of the ICU Ballers' win. 
Notre Dame men's basket­ball coach Mike Brey and his team BOB will play Saturday at 2:30 p.m. at the Stepan courts. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SUMMER RENTAL  CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR  Hoping to house sit or rent your  Indiana Catholic couple with huge  
FOR SALE  FOR RENT  821 E. Wash; 5 bed $200/mo Eric 243-2902  MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN­COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE  home, furnished/unfurnished, unit! summer 2002. Married couple, early  hearts wishing to adopt a child. We can provide your baby with lots of  
TOEL  40s , professional + student. no kids.  love and a secure, stable life.  
Car For Sale!!  EXECUTIVE SUITE One bedroom  New home Fall 2001. This 3+ bdrm,  1 or 2 BEDROOMS  Call 616.697.5307 or 270.659 0096  Reasonable expenses will be paid.  
1995 Ford Aspire  furnished executive suite ­ cable &  3 bath homw is close to campus with  OWN BATHROOM  For more info, please call Rebecca  
$2,000 perfect condition!  local phone, housekeeping included  features like fireplace, cahedral ceil­ $780/mo.  Summer daytime sitter tor three gir1s  re Larry and Cathy: toll-free 1-866­ 
Call Heather @ 243-0125  @ $60/night (footbalVgraduation  ings, family room, deluxe appliances,  1-312-443-6062 JAIME  ages 12 to 5. 273-3010  30-ADOPT  
weekend rates higher). (219) 271­ 24x30 garage. $1400/mo. Call 219·  
1985 Mazda 626  6808 or e-mail: www.belleterre•  232-4527 or 616-683-5038.  Studio apt. in quiet neighborhood  Graduating seniors:  Ealing concerns survey 2000; sum- 
Great condition  suite@aol.com. ND Alum owned/  near Notre Dame. Unfurnished,  Looking to sell your apartment furni­ mary results now available on  
$1,350 or best offer  managed. Near ND.Looking to  Fifth roomate needed tor first semes­ cable, patio; $330/mo. Plus electric.  lure (beds, desks, couches, etc)? ND  University counseling Center's Web  
call 634-4296 for more info  share/sublet summer apartment. Will  ter. House is close to campus. Call  Available June. Tel: 616-687-8924  juniors looking to buy. Call Nick at 4­ page.  
be performing internship in South  Dan at 4-2091.  4716 if interested.  http://www.ndedu:/~ucc'ucc_ed_sur- 
Oakhill Condo ­ 4 bdr/3 bath  Bend May 13 through August 18.  3-6 BDRM HOMES  vey_2000.html  
112. mile from campus  Non-smoker. (419) 352-4136 (tim- Apt. starting June 1 . 2 Bdrm 2 Bath.  $180 per person  Job Opportunity 2001 ·2002  
fireplace, deck, pool access  goodenow@yahoo.com}  W/0 Minutes to campus. Call 243­ Furn. Summer/Fall  Four ND families looking for creative  LADIES: Take a study break and  
$99,000/best offer  ..;  0070.  272-6306  tutor to instruct grade school children  meet guys, make fun of them, or  
call Tim @ 612-802-0285  Oak Hill Condo for rent. 2 bdrm, 2  in home setting. Ed. Degree not req.  both with the new ThatGuy! Game.  
bath. Available June 1. 1 • 765-362­ Nice 3-bdrrn 1-1/2 bath  ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND  Normal school calendar.  As seen in In Style, Glamour &  
5 miles from Notre Dame  1040. Ask for John  Tri-level, family room, fireplace,  Wild Irish Rose Inn  Call 254-9466  Entertainment Weekly. Endless Fun!  
Close to everything 4 bedrooms 1.5  fenced back yard, 2-car garage.  3mi north of campus  $9.99 at www.thatgyygam~.i:wn  
baths recently remodeledMain level  Lake living bear Bremen  $995/mo; Call 219-232-4527  'brkfst buffet ea AM  Retired ND staffer & spouse wish to  
laundry finished basement 2076 liv­ most pets okay  Or 616-683-5038  'clean, comfortable & afford- apt. for summer. Reliable, non-smok- Graduating Seniors: Looking to sell  
ing area  new 3 bedroom, air, garage, dispos­ able  ers, no pets, have family in area. 135  your apartment furniture (beds,  
plenty of storage Call 256-0698  al, dishwaher, $950/month  Newly remodeled 5 bedroom house  (2190 2n-4303 or  Lakeview dr., Mulberry Fl. 33860  desks, couches, etc?) ND juniors  
page 219-935· 7845 or call 546-4430  available to rent for tall semester. 2  www rii!dirishrQs~.~Qm  (863) 425-4404 or call our daughter  looking to buy. Call Nick 4-4716 if  
Europe $199 one way.  full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec  locally at 256-2335.  interested.  
Mexico/Garribbean or Central  AA aooable 1.5 bcim. House w/ garage  room, security system. Call now to  
America $250 round trip plus tax Other wor1d wide destinations cheap. If you can beat these prices start  by St Patoc:k'~ 702-436-1594. Rent for fall semester: 4 bedrooms, 2  see277-0636 1 br sublet 5/15-8/15, Downers  WANTED  PERSONAL  Ha, ha, I've never done classifieds before but it wasn't that difficult Noah made it sound like it should be  
your own airline. Book tickets on line  full baths, washer&dryer, basement  Grove, IL, w/d, dw, ale, great com- Need one ticket to graduation.  some kind of torture device.  
www.airtech.com or toll tree  w/ hot tub, new tumance, security  plex, room for 2 people, $890/mo+util  Price negotiable  Hurrah Heartland Crew! Hopefully  
(877)AIRTECH  system. Call 277-0636  Rachel 312-498-6579  Call 4-3760  . ..  ..~ ..  we evaded scary.cnaracters; tonight. •. • -It's. Rice to be.back aHbe.Gbsenterf . ·,  


Friday, April 20, 200I 
The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
BIG EAST MEN'S TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIP 
'Deja vu all over again' as Irish head to Miami 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
Alexander Blachly, director 
ST. MICHAELS 
LAUi 
RY 
& DRYCLEANING 
SUMMER STORAGE BEGINS APRIL 16, 2001 
There's no need to take your winter clothes and school linens home! 

~Rttl!Jl!~!!ftrt 
Byrd, Vivaldi, Zimmermann and J.S. Bach 
8:00 pm Debntsbap,
~ril 25, 2001 'r.. JiasiUca of tbt .i'>acrtb 1$tart 
Free and open to the public 

For more information, lease call (219) 631-6201 or visit htt : / / www.nd.edu/-con oers 

*Students may request that the storage fee be deducted from their laundry contract, or charged to their student account. You do not need cash! *You DO NOT need a laundry contract to participate. *All garments and linens must be laundered or drycleaned at over-the-counter prices. *Saint Michael's cannot process leather or suede. *A $7.00 storage fee will be added to your invoice (per order/does not include cleaning fee). *All items must be picked up no later than September 7, 2001. Saint Michael's Student Laundry Distribution Center is located at Holy Cross Dr. and Sorin Ct. Hours: 8:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. Monday-Friday Extended Hours May 10 &11: 8:00 a._m. -6:0~ P•'!'· for more information call 631-7565 or visit our new web site at www.ndlaundry.com 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Wricer 
The No.14-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team heads to the University of Miami this weekend for the a Big East Championship full of both bitter deja vu and the confidence of experience. 
Seeded first going into the tourna­ment, they have a bye on Friday and will face the winner of Friday's match­up between No. 4 St. John's and No. 5 Rutgers Saturday. 
The Hurricanes face the Virginia Tech Hokies. and are likely to face the Irish in the finals on Sunday. 
Though they lost to Miami in a heart­breaking 4-3 loss earlier this month, the Irish are ranked higher nationally than the Hurricanes because they post­ed better scores against common oppo­nents. 
"We're neither confident nor doubt­ful about facing Miami," said head coach Bob Bayliss. "Miami was the closest match we've played all year, and we expect it to be 4-3 again, to go right down to the wire." 
The Irish-Hurricanes rivalry is an intense one, but the hostile home-team crowd should inspire rather than intimidate. Notre Dame, 15-5 this year in regular season play, lost to Miami in last year's Big East finals. They beat Miami in the 1999 finals, but lost in 1998. 
"When we played Miami earlier this season, the crowd was pretty vulgar," said Casey Smith. "But we have a very experienced team. They know how to. handle that. We're better when there's somthing there to fire us up . ., 
If both Miami and Notre Dame advance to the finals, Smith will face Michael Lang at No. 1 singles. Smith lost in his last match against Lang, after being up 5-3 in the third set. 

"Casey will be hungry," Bayliss said. 
Junior Javier Taborga, who won the 
deciding match in the Big East tourna­
ment two years ago, will face Tomas 
Smid if the Irish play Miami in the 
finals. 

"We have a lot to gain if we win this year," said Taborga. "We will have a huge chance at hosting a regional, which has been one of our goals for the whole season. It's something all of us want to do." 
At No. 3 singles, freshman Luis Haddock-Morales will again face Johan Lindquist, who he defeated solidly in their last meeting 6-4, 7-5. At No. 4 singles, junior Aaron Talarico will face Peter Hoffman, who he battled with in their last meeting, beating him in the third set 7-6 (7-5). 
Sophomore Brian Farrell will face Jose Lieberman at No. 5. Casey Smith faced Lieberman his freshman year in the Big East, coming back dramatically from collapsing from cramps to win­ning nine straight points to win the match. 
Either freshman Matt Scott or senior Matt Daly will play at No. 6. 
"In past years, we were so weak down low, but this year that's our strength," Taborga said. "Aaron, Matt Scott and Brian have been so solid for us all year." 
Doubles teams of Taborga and Talarico, James Malhame and Smith, and Daly with Haddock-Morales will round out the Irish lineup. 
"We would like to win the Big East conference, to bring home that cham­pionship trophy," said Bayliss. "Every match from here on in, assuming we get through the finals, means a chnce to host a regional, means a high regional ranking and that will trans­late into high preseason ranking. There is a lot at stake, we know what we can do." 
-·---------------------..,------------------------------1111a111 
Davie projects increasing number of draft picks 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 

The 2000 Notre Dame football team will receive one final, unofficial evaluation this weekend at the 2001 NFL Draft. As many as five Irish seniors could be selected this weekend -a noticeable improvement compared to the 2000 draft when only Jarious Jackson was selected in the last round. 
The greater number of players expected to be chosen this year is a sign of improvement for the program, according to Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie. 
"You know last year we only had one player drafted and that was in the last round. But I think those days are over." Davie said. "I think we are going to have more players make it more interest­ing for the fans around here. I think we have some really good football players coming out. Whether or not they are going to be impact players that are drafted early in the first day of that draft, I don't know if that is going to happen. But I do think we have some good players in this program who are going to make some teams." 
Guard Mike Gandy is expected to be the first player drafted from the Irish. The senior from Dallas, Texas is projected as high as the second round. Brock Williams, Tony Driver, J abari Holloway and Anthony Denman could also be selected. 
Even if all five predicted players are drafted, it would still be a large drop off compared to the early 90s when as many as 10 players were draft­ed in 1991 and 1994. 
None of this year's players are considered poten­tial first round draft picks. In 1993, Notre Dame had four players drafted in the first round. The last Irish first rounder was Luke Petitgout in 1999. 
Davie acknowledges that the talent level has been down at Notre Dame but also insists it is on the rise. 
"If you look back over the last two years, we haven't had a lot of players drafted from this pro­gram," Davie said. "The year we were 9-3 and had a pretty good team (1998], we had a lot of players drafted. The other two years we had one player drafted. I think we will have more players drafted this year. We won nine games and I think next year we will have the most players drafted since I've been at Notre Dame." 
While the low number of NFL-caliber players on his teams have certainly impacted the won-loss record of his team, Davie said it has helped recruit­ing in some ways. Good high school players see Notre Dame as a place where they might start right away, according to Davie. That alleged recruiting advantage leads Davie to believe that next year's draft will feature even more Irish seniors. 
In the end, however, a large number of NFL draft picks reflects positively on Notre Dame. 
"The bottom line is though, I want to see as many guys possible drafted out of Notre Dame," Davie said. "It's good for us; it's good for the play­ers; it's good for the program. It shows we are headed in the right direction because [NFL scouts] don't miss on many draft picks." 
IRSH 

__ ._.,.-:,: -~~~-::·:.:,._,·,.. ,; ....; / '.: :....,, ·····..f, 
. ~ 
I . 

PRoiffl.'ioNS 
Mike Gandy Tony Driver 
Guard Safety Projection: 2nd Round, 44th Projection: 6th or 7th pick overall by Carolina Round, better chance as Panthers Free Agent 
Jabari Halloway Anthony Denman 
Tight End Linebacker Projection: Late rounds on Projection: 7th Round Day 2, probably 5th or 6th selection or Free Agent 
Brock Williams 
Comerback Projection: As high as 3rd Round, as low as 6th 

Compiled by Mike Connolly.from ESPN.com reports KATIE MCKENNAffhe Observer 
Dame dugout exploded onto the age up to .388 with a two forGame fielded to congratulate their three day Thursday. "This : CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS teammates at home plate and game shows us that we have to 
~ 

continued from page 20 celebrate their dramatic victo­come out and play better, but $ ry. we're very thankful to come 1801 IRJSH WAY -SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 -(219} 272 -144l
* 

right fielder Brian Stavisky l$
The Irish sent five pitchers to away with a win even though Walking Distance to Campus!
would ground into a double play we may not have played to our *
the mound in the contest; how­
~ LOOKING FOR A "NEW VIEW" NEXT FALL?
on a hard hit ball back to the 
ever, all of the runs were cred­best potential." 
pitcher. *if(
ited to senior Mike Naumann. Hopefully the Irish will be 
Central Michigan appeared to ~
Three of the four came in the able to carry over this momen­
~

have come away with its upset 
seventh inning when Central tum to the weekend series 
when the next hitter. sopho­: CAMPUS VIEW OFFEf~S:
Michigan broke open a 1-1 tie against Big East opponent more Kris Billmaier, grounded 
and pulled to a 4-1 lead. Villanova (18-18-1). If the Irish *<t -Large, spacious apartmenls to third. Third baseman Mike l$
One good aspect of these mid­can continue their current 11­
~ -Lmiled Renovated Kitchens

Galloway, however, would let 
week games is that they can game winning streak, they may
his throw to first go wild, and ~ -Swimming Pool, Tennis and Basketball Courls 
really set the tone and prepare be able to move into a first Billmaier reached on the error the team for the Big East games place ranking, since No. 1 $ it -LC)CATION ! A short walk to a GrocerlJ Store, to keep the inning alive. 
on the weekends, according to ranked Stanford lost earlier this J Drug Store, Restaurants, and CAt\,1PUS!
This mistake proved to be 

Mainieri week to San Francisco. 
deadly for the Chippewas as ~-Affordable Pricing
"We had talked about this The two teams will square off catcher Paul O'Toole followed game being a preparation for for a double-header Saturday * 
it
with a line drive single. Junior 

us for the weekend, and we did at noon at Frank Eck Stadium. l$ Register lo win a free TV with 12 monlh lease!
Andrew Bushey, who uncharac­
not want to go into those games They will wrap up the series ~ ~~~~~~~~ffl'!'!~~~~~~
teristically struggled in the field 

with a loss," said junior Steve with another game Sunday at with three errors, kept the rally Stanley, who bumped his aver-noon. 
it~' 
going with a walk to load the bases. 

After fouling off the first two pitches and quickly falling behind 0-2, Meyer caught sight of his pitch and crushed it over NEED CASH? the left field fence. The Notre 
NEW DONORS 
EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD .F0RA$5.00 .BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a month in2-4 hours a week 
·sERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST
KERASOTES THEATRES 
CALLTHEATRE
SHOWPLACE 16 FOR 
. SOW. Chippewa 299-6063 SHOWTIMES 

page 14  The Observer . SPORTS  Friday, April 20, 2001  
NFL DRAFT  

Friday, April 20, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
SOFTBALL 
Belles power up, sweep Calvin in double header 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Senior Scaff Writer 
The long ball propelled Saint Mary's to a two game sweep of Calvin College Thursday, 8-0 and 13-12. 
"We had our hitting shoes on today," said head coach John Kovach. 
The Belles hit five home runs in the two games and recorded 24 total hits. After their losses to Olivet Wednesday, Saint Mary's needed to take both games from Calvin to have a chance at reach­ing the MIAA playoffs. 
"As low as we felt [Wednesday], hav­ing [Kristin] Martin pitch such a good game today and having everyone who got dropped into a role play so well, it was just a great day all around," Kovach said. 
Junior Kristin Martin started the first game, giving up no runs on three hits. Martin recorded eight strikeouts in the game and gave up no free passes. 
The Belles offense dominated the game from the start. They scored three runs in the bottom of the third inning. The first run scored after they loaded the bases and sophomore catcher Susan Kutz walked to score a run. 
Freshman Katrina Tebbe then drove a run in with a ground-out and freshman Mandy Hayes hit an RBI single to make the score 3-0 in favor of the Belles. 
Saint Mary's added to its lead in the fourth inning when junior third base­men Melissa Hayes drove a two run homer over the fence to make the score 5-0. The Belles scored again in the bot­tom of the sixth inning on a solo home run by freshman centerfielder Erin 
Sullivan. 

Melissa Hayes then hit another two-run shot that hit the score­board in centerfield to make the score 8-0 and end the game. 
Early on in the sec­ond game, it seemed as if it would be a repeat of the first game. The Belles 
"We had our hitting shoes on today." 
John Kovach softball team head coach 

jumped to a first inning 3-0 lead on a three-run homer by sophomore catcher Susan Kutz. The Knights, however, would not go away quietly. The came back to tie the game in the bottom of the first inning off of starting pitcher senior Anne Senger. 
"Our bats never really quit working today." said senior first baseman Cindy Traub. "We were a little shocked when they came back, but we stayed in it." 
Saint Mary's added two runs in the top of the second to make it 5-3 Belles. The Belles added two more in the top of the third on another home run by Hayes and an RBI single by Kutz. After adding another run in the fourth to make it 8-3 Saint Mary's, it seemed that the Belles had control. 
Calvin, however, would come back and take the lead in the bottom of the fourth. In the inning, 11 Knights batted and eight runs were scored. The Knights scored six runs on a bases loaded single and a three-run double 
with two runners on, 
no outs and a score of 
9-8 in favor of the Knights. 
"I felt really bad pulling Anne out, but the umpires were really tight on her strike zone," Kovach said. "The main thing was that we made the adjust­ments to win." 
Wilhelmy hit the first batter she faced and allowed the two runners left on base from Senger's outing to score on-a two run single. After the shaky start, however, Wilhelmy settled in and retired the Knights. 
The Belles did not cut into the 11-8 score until the top of the sixth inning. On a double steal by first basemen Rachel Deer and rightfielder Jill Clark the Belles closed the score to 11-9. 

Calvin added to their lead in the sixth on a wild pitch to make the score 12-9. The Belles were down to their last at bat in the top of the sixth inning and needed three runs to tie it up. 
"The whole end of the game was about having fun at the plate," Kutz said. "We won because we had fun. I told every batter to go and have fun and that's why we won the game." 
Traub started off the inning with a walk and Hayes advanced the runner on single. Shortstop Marnie Walsh hit an RBI single to bring Saint Mary's within two. Kutz then hit an RBI double to left to tie up the game. 
Wilhelmy had a one-two-three bottom of the sixth to send the game into extra innings. 
Sullivan hit a double to left in the top of the eighth and second basemen Katie Friggie it an RBI single to bring her home and score the winning run. 
The Knights recorded a walk in the bottom of the eighth, but no runs to make the final score 13-12 in favor of the Belles. 
"I think what made this win so special was that every single person on this team contributed to this game," Traub said. 
The Belles return to action at Kalamazoo College for an MIAA double header Saturday. 
before Kovach pulled Senger from the game and freshman Libby Wilhelmy came on to pitch. Wilhelmy entered the game 

MEN'S LACROSSE 
No. 5 Irish take on GHLL conf ere nee foe Fairfield 
By JOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 
After a perfect four game homestand, the men's lacrosse team takes its top 5 ranking and 10-1 on the road to face Fairfield in a Great Western Lacrosse League match-up. 
While playing on the road is extremely difficult for most teams, Notre Dame has been superb on the road this sea­son, winning five out of six games against some very tough competition that includes Loyola (Baltimore) and the University of Virginia. Notre Dame's only loss of the season was an 11-10 overtime 

We love your "determination" 
Love, Mom, Dad, Tom, Joe, & Rags 
defeat at Hofstra. 
Coach Kevin Corrigan attrib­
utes the Irish's road success to 
experience and cohesive team 
play. 
"Good teams play well any­where," Corrigan said. "It shouldn't matter where you play. We have had solid team play all season, and I hope that continues as we close out the regular season." 
The Irish have already 'clinched the G\VLL title and its automatic NCAA bid but they have now set their sights on a loftier goal: winning the national championship. 
After nine appearances in the NCAA Tournament during his 13 year tenure as head coach at Notre Dame, Corrigan understands that in order to compete in the NCAA tourna­ment the Irish understand that they must continue to get bet­ter with each passing game to peak at the right time. 
"I'm proud of our accom­plishments, but our goal is to always improve each time we play. We want to be playing our best lacrosse as· we enter the NCAA tournament so I don't expect us to lose focus against Fairfield," Corrigan said. 
Notre Dame's 10-1 start matches their best start since 1994. If the Irish were to win their next two games, they would have the highest regu­lar season winning percentage in the history of Notre Dame lacrosse. 
The Irish are led by seniors Tom Glatzel and David Ulrich on the offensive end and 

senior goalie Kirk Howell in 
net, but other players are 
starting to contribute -mak­
ing Notre Dame a very intimi­
dating team as they approach 
the NCAA tournament. 
Corrigan has been very 
impressed with juniors Devin 
Ryan, John Flandina and 
senior Jon Harvey for really 
picking up their scoring lately 
making Notre Dame a very 
dangerous offensive team. 

"You need everybody to be successful. Other teams are concentrating on trying to stop Tom and David so other guys have picked it up," said Corrigan. "When you are a good team, you have to take advantage of what the other team gives you." 
Notes: 

. Glatzel has been named as a finalist for the inaugural Tewaaraton Trophy, which 
recognizes the nation's best lacrosse player. Glatzel joins teammate David Ulrich as one of 19 nationwide finalists for the award. Notre Dame is one of only three schools (Syracuse and Virginia are the others) to have more than one player as a candidate for this presti­gious award. 
CORRECTION 

In Thursday's edition of The Observer, the back page pic­ture of No. 43 Chris Young, was incorrectly identified as David Ulrich. 
The Observer regrets the error. 
"t­
l I page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 20, 2001 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
get your lifting in or your run­ning in.' They know what it takes to win at this level." 
When working with his staff, O'Connor concentrates on the mechanics of that specific pitch­er. During games. O'Connor offers general instruction to his pitchers, as well as advice on how to get an individual hitter out. But he says the competi­tiveness of his pitchers is self­instilled. 
"On our pitching staff we guys that go out there and really compete and really have a strong will to win in every game," O'Connor said. 
Mainieri believes O'Connor's past experience as a college pitcher plays a considerable role in his effectiveness as a coach. 
"Pitchers understand that he's been there and knows what he's talking about," said Mainieri. "He has a great ability to know what works for a spe­cific pitcher." 
Finding the best of the best 
Bringing the next generation of hard-hitting and hard-throw­ing Darners to South Bend con­sumes much of O'Connor's sum­mer. He, along with Mainieri and fellow assistant coach Dusty Lepper, crisscross the country seeking out talent and convincing them that Notre Dame is the place to continue their careers while securing a quality education. 
"Notre Dame sells itself acad­emically," O'Connor said. "As far as recruiting a baseball player, we need to show him that he can get better in our program because every kid we recruit has aspirations of play­ing in the big leagues, and tell them they can win champi­onships here and have a chance at the College World Series." 

With the success of the Irish baseball program in sending players to the professional ranks, O'Connor has a powerful recruiting tool. Twenty-four Irish players have been drafted or signed to professional con­tracts under Mainieri and O'Connor. 
"We feel very comfortable telling kids that they can get better here and win a lot of games here," said O'Connor. 
Recruiting offers O'Connor special personal rewards as well. 
"You see how hard our coach­ing staff worked to go out and recruit, and going out and watching them play and work­ing with them, and its great to see ... that all the hard work you've put into it pays off," O'Connor said. 
O'Connor's accomplishments as a recruiter can be traced to several sources. He has a per­sonality that represents Notre Dame well, and is very effective in relating to parents the oppor­tunities for their sons with the Irish, said Mainieri. 
"He places a high premium on competitiveness and hustle, and kids with a love of the game," said Mainieri. "He's a great evaluator of talent. He knows what it takes [for a player] to he success in college baseball." 
Knowing the road 
In the early 90s, O'Connor was a college baseball success himself at Creighton University in Omaha. As a freshman in 1990, he posted a 1.91 ERA, still the team record. The next year, Creighton reached the College World Series in its hometown of Omaha, making him the only member of the Irish baseball team with College World Series experience. 
Although he enjoyed his College World Series experience greatly, O'Connor won't talk to his players about what Omaha is like mid-June. 
"I won't talk to our guys about what the [College World Series] is like, I think that every kid should have that experience on their own," he said. 
Not going anywhere 
In their seven years of work­ing together, Mainieri and O'Connor have forged a close relationship that rests firmly on common ground concerning how the game should be played and how the program should be run. 
"We're on the same page the way we look at things," said Mainieri. "He's not a yes man, he gives his opinions, and usu­ally his opinions are the same as mine." 
With the success of Irish base­ball and with Baseball America ranking O'Connor in its top 10 college assistants, inevitably the issue of leaving Notre Dame for a head coaching job somewhere else comes up. But at Notre Dame O'Connor has found a sit­uation where he has a larger role than most college assis­tants, and also to work with Mainieri and some of the top talent in the country. 
"I've always felt a great honor to not only work for Notre Dame but also for Coach Mainieri," O'Connor said. "Ever since I have been here I have been given a tremendous amount of responsibility. I do a· lot of stuff that most head coaches at other programs might not want to let an assis­tant coach do. That's why I've always felt 100 percent com­fortable and happy I'm at Notre Dame." 

Red Hot Vehicle Loan Rates! 
Rates As low As 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish battle Hoyas for top spot in Big East 
By ANTHONY BISHOP Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team will battle No. 5 Georgetown this Sunday for the top spot in the Big East. Both teams are undefeated in the league and tied for first. 
Georgetown (8-2) returned most of its starters and have gotten everything the team could ask for. The Hoyas were predicted to win the first ever Big East women's lacrosse championship but the Irish (8-3) are looking to show the conference that at least one team will stand in the way. 
Georgetown faces Penn State today before making the trip to South Bend.. They are coming off of a loss last week to top-ranked Maryland 13-9. 
Notre Dame is coming off of an upset against No. 7 Yale 9-6. The victory was anchored by senior Lael O'Shaughnessy and sopho­more Danielle Shearer. Their offensive play helped the Irish maintain moment throughout most of the game while sophomore Jen White was once again solid in the crease for the Irish defense. 

Play from White will once again be need to be strong as Georgetown's Sheehan Stanwick, who was voted as the pre-season Big East Player of the Year will be leading one of the most pow­erful offenses in the nation. 
The Hoya goalkeeper will also have her hands full as the highly balanced Irish attack have been exception­ally potent in the past couple of weeks. Led by O'Shaughnessy and Shearer as well as Alissa Moser and Natalie Loftus, the Irish seem to be able to score from every position. 
The game will be held at 1 
p.m..on Sunday here at Moose Krause Stadium. 

·~. 

New Or Used Vehicles Any Model Year 
'§a 

NOTRE DAME 
219/239-6611 FEDERAL CREDIT UNION www.ndfcu.org 
You can bank on us to be better 

*Annual Percentage Rate. As low as 7.5%APR is available for various financing terms. Rates subject to change without notice. Certain restrictions may apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Independent of the University. 



-Large 2-Bedroom floorplan . -Student Leases Available 
-4 Blocks E.rom Campus. 
ONLY A FEW LEFT -SECURE YOUR APARTMENT TODAYI 
"The Best Valueln Off Campus Living" 

Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 

Friday, April 20, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
BIG EAST WOMEN'S TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIP 
ND, Miami set to write latest chapter in rivalry 

DUFFY-MARIE ARNOULT/The Observer Irish senior Michelle Dasso follows through during a recent match. Dasso, Notre Dame's No. 1 singles player, is ranked fourth nationally. 

I ------~ 
Brionne Clary 1 Conor Murphy Miranda Thomas I 
!---­Where: In front of McGlinn Hall When : This Sunday, April 22 Registration begins at 2:00, Race at 3:00pm 
Cost: $10.00 (includes t-shirt and post-race refreshments) More Info: www.nd.edu/~welshhal/ Sign-Ups: LaFortune Wed-Fri from 1l-2 and 5-7 
NOH Wed 11-2 and 5-7 Race day or Online 
Proceeds to benefit Brionne and Conor's Scholarship Funds and the Leukemia Society Sponsored by: Welsh Family Hall, Zahm Hall, and the College Dc:-!"ncrats 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame vs. Miami. The 
Hurricanes vs. the Irish. Catholics 
vs. Convicts. 
\Velcome to the biggest rivalry 
in Big East women's tennis. 
In the six years that the Big East has hosted a match•style tournament, the two teams play­ing for the championship have always been the Irish and the Hurricanes. 
And Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback hopes it stays that way. 
"[Miami's] the best team," he said. "And we'd just as soon play the best team we can." 
The No. 7 Irish, who enter the Big East tournament as the top seed, already faced Miami this season in a dual match -and the Irish came out on top, winning 6· 
1. 
"We beat them easier than I thought it would be," Louderback said. 
But he expects things to be dif­ferent the second time around, The Hurricanes, who are hosting the tournament, have a home­court advantage and have had 10 days to rest. The Irish, mean­while, played a match on Monday and will face more than 80 degree temperatures this weekend. 
Louderback knows first-hand how Miami can rebound. All he has to do is remember what hap­pened a year ago after Notre Dame beat Miami 6-3 in South Bend. Just eight days later, the Hurricanes toppled the Irish 5-2 in the Big East finals. 
"They'll be playing at their place and they're always tough," said Louderback. 'Tm sure we'll have a battle." 
In all, Notre Dame has won four of the last six Big East titles. The Irish last won the championship in 1999. Meanwhile, Miami won the Big East championship in 1998 -snapping Notre Dame's streak of three consecutive titles -and in 2000. 
The Irish aren't planning to alter their lineup. Senior Michelle Dasso, who is ranked No. 4 

nationally, will put her team-best 
19-3 singles record on the line at 
No. 1 singles. Junior Becky 
Varnum will most likely play No. 
2 singles, while classmate Nina 
Vaughn -ranked No. 100 
nationally -will play No. 3 sin• 
gles. 

Freshman Caylan Leslie -the 
only underclassman in the varsity 
lineup -will compete at No. 4 
singles. Junior Lindsey Green and 
senior Kimberly Guy round out 
Notre Dame's singles lineup at 
Nos. 5 and 6, respectively. 

Dasso and Varnum -the No. 
5-ranked duo nationally -will 
team up at No. 1 doubles. 

Either Leslie or sophomore Katie Cuhna will combine with Guy at No. 2 .doubles. Green and Vaughan complete the Notre Dame lineup at No. 3 doubles. 
Louderback says that having such an experienced team is the reason the Irish are 21-4 -their best record entering the Big East Tournament in his tenure. 
"It's been a fun year," he said. "Of the top six, five are juniors and seniors. I think they've all been around enough, and they all work very hard and are very focused." 
However, in order to advance to Sunday's finals, the Irish will have to get past either Virginia Tech or Syracuse on Saturday morning. Notre Dame has already ·faced Virginia Tech this season, win­ning 7-0. Regardless of who wins the Syracuse-Virginia Tech match, Louderback expects a challenging semifinal match. · 
"They're both very solid teams," he said. "We definitely aren't a guaranteed win. The biggest think is just to get our shot at Miami in the finals." 
Meanwhile, the second-seeded Hurricanes -ranked No. 41 in the nation -must get past third• seeded and No. 64 Boston College in order to advance to the finals. The Eagles will play West Virginia in the first round -a team Notre Dame beat 7•O earlier this season. 
But it doesn't matter who the Irish play, says Louderback. Their goal isn't going to change. 
"It's plain and simple," he said. "We want to win." 
Finals ... done. Graduation ... done. Packing & shipping ... ughl No problem. Call Mall·Boxes Etc. 
11•

MAILIICIDSETC.• 
Stepan Center BHketball Courts May 7. 12 10am • 5pm May 16 • 19 10am • 5pm M~21 10am-~m 
WelshFamlly 
(Between Welsh and Alumni) 

10am-5pm 
(g '-~' ,. May 16 • 19 10am-5pm
.! ~l-F]~:,. 
May 7 • 12 

10am• 5pm 
. \t . \ .'iJ May 21 
Lyons Hall 

-'-.:.:...:::~. May 9 • 12 10am-5pm
r---------------7 277-6245 
Mal Boxes Etc.
: $1.00 Off UPS Shipping : 

SR 23 &Ironwood 1 · PerBox 1 2 blocks east of N.D. Free Pick-ups
I (with this coupon) I 

FH<U• ealt:JMOdal~ 
to JCtu,dtJI• c:rppo,WnHmt
L---------------~ 


claimed the victory. 
Although five singles victories had already guaranteed a victory for the Belles, doubles play on Thursday will help determine seeding for the MIM tourna­ment in May. 
Winning doubles wasn't the only thing that sent Knish home with a smile Thursday. She claimed her second No. 1 singles victory in a row after a 
long stretch of losses that were affecting her confidence. 
"[Winning] feels amazing," 'She said. "It feels great to finally have a win. I'm starting to get my confidence back. Today I said 'Annie -go for 
it. . ., 
Knish won another close match, defeating Disselkoen 6-· 4, 7-5. 
Annie Knish wasn't the only sister to play a close match, however. Freshman Jeannie Knish claimed a close one at No. 3 singles. After dropping her first set 3-6, Knish had to come from behind for the vic­tory.
/'-----------,
49¢g~~~s
single-sided on 8.5'' x 11' 28 lb. paper. 
You'll be amazed by the quality. 
(C)py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
On the Campus of the University of Notre Dame 
Call 631-COPY 
FREE Pick-Up & Delivery 
See store for details. Coupon required. Hurry • expires 5/4/01. 
, ___________,,,,,,,
\ Not valid with any other offer or discount J 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 20, 2001 

ly two hours bles and fin­
"ft feels great to finally 
on the court, ished off
have a win. I'm
Calvin was their oppo­
starting to get my
unable to nents in two -return a confidence back.·· sets, defeat­strong hit ing the and Cook Knights of.
Annie Knish 

and Knish Calvin 6-3,
Belles' tennis co-captain 
6-3. 
Trisha 

Jones and Ryan won No. 3 doubles in a close two set game. After an easy 6-2 first set victory, Jones and Ryan ended the sec­ond set in a tie. They took the tiebreaker 7-5, winning the game 7-6. 
The Belles will play on Saturday at home against DePauw and Wheaton. Action kicks off at 9 a.m. Sunday the Belles will take on Kalamazoo on the road at 1 p.m. 
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! 

Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 2002-2003. 
All first year students, sophomores and especially juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor Andrew Gould 
Wednesday· evening, April 25, 2001 at 6:00 pm in room 136 DeBartolo 
W. Tennis 
continued from page 20 
and Cook started hitting more lobs. 
"[Deciding to start lobbing] was the turning point," Cook said. 
Lobbing to change the pace, along with a solid net game brought Cook and Knish back from behind to tie the set at six. 
Cook and Knish took an easy tiebreaker lead, scoring five points to Calvin's one. But after changing sides on the net, things got sticky again. 
The twilight made it tougher to see the ball and both teams were tired. 
After near­

"The first set I was making a lot of mistakes," Knish said. "[During the second and third sets] I told myself to keep the ball in play and let Imy oppo­nent] make the mistakes." 
Calvin's Jessica Basma did make the mistakes, and Knish took the next two sets 6-4, 6-2 to win the match. Knish's vic­tory clinched a Saint Mary's win, coming after the other four singles wins. 
Freshman Kaitlin Cutler earned a solid 6-0, 6-1 victory at No. 3 singles, Kris Spriggle topped her opponent 6-2. 6-2 at No. 5 singles and sopho­more Elisa Ryan wrapped up the singles wins with a 6-2, 6­0 victory at No. 6 singles. 
Jeannie Knish and Cutler 
teamed up at 
No. 2 dou­

#2 NOTRE DAME BASEBALL 
Saturday vs. Villanova (2) 12 pill Firsl 100 studetrts get a free chicken sandwich ~u,,
~g 

Sunday vs. Villanova 12 pm First 300 Fans Get a ND Wooden Baseball Bat Pen 
As Always, Students Free! ~& 
NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S LACROSSE c,.., 
I' 
*ALL GAMES AT MOOSE KRAUSE STADIUM
Sunday vs. #5 Georgetown1pm 
t / 
' 

Friday, April 20, 200 I 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TYLER
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

..... 

Tho~e.. c.o.~V'I+ .5 te.o.\ '"9 o." e,c...k a p1e.c.e of tr111t sha 11 s'1ffe.r 
e.tuna.IdA"'na.tto 

Fox TROT BILL AMEND 
The dining hall invokes the wrath ofGod. 



HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jean Harlow, Jackie Joyner-Kersee, Miranda Richard­son, David Faustino, Nicolas Freeling, Jessica Biel 
Happy Birthday: Your mind, filled with great ideas and won­derful intentions, is moving a mile a minute. Now all you have to do is harness your energy. Take a positive approach: Give some thought to what you truly want to accomplish and then make it so. Your mission this year is to make headway, regard­less of the sacrifices required. Your numbers: 4, 19, 25, 31, 36, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can talk to close friends about your future plans and intentions. They will not only lis­ten, but also provide you with some sound advice. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be cautious of deception when dealing with an organization that you are contemplating joining. Sit­uations may not be as they appear financially. Don't be too eager to let others use your money. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
You will have to keep busy if you wish to avoid flying off the handle. Your mate may drive you crazy if you allow it. Physi­cal activity will help alleviate stressful situations. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You must tie up loose ends before you can move on to other things. You will be rewarded for a job well done. Be sure to give others credit £or their help. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be in ahigh creative cycle. Use your ability to present your ideas colorfully to those in a position to 

EUGENIA LAST 
help you. Your presentation skills 
will be recognized. 0000 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
You will unravel if emotional confrontations with your ma.te get out of hand. Try to compro­mise without going overboard, or you will feel that you've been taken advantage of. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
Check out all the possibilities. Take advantage of courses that > will enhance your present position or offer opportunities to change your career direction. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
You can help others make wise 
choices about their personal 
financial position. You should 
look into ways of improving 
your diet, getting more sleep or 
changing your·routine. 000 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov: 22-Dec. 21): You can have a memorable night if you plan carefully. 1hink of all the things that will please your partner, and I doubt you'll get any resistance. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Look into making changes that will help you look and feel better about yourself. Get help if neces­sary, but quit those bad habits you've picked up. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You need to enjoy life with friends or family for a change. Entertainment will get your mind off you: worries. Good friends will help if you ask. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Relatives will not be on the same wavelength as you. Don't try to push your opinions or beliefs on others. Problems with landlords or tenants will lead to disputes. 00 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Card spots 5 Thunder sound 9 Special Forces 
cap 14 Polaroid 15 Jim-dandy 16 Fragrance 17 George Bush's 
alma mater 18 Monster of a 
boss? 19 Put in a nutshell 20 Act like a slave­
driver 23 Tribesman's home 24 Fisherman's 
profit? 25 Oriental 29 Shorthand 
writer, for short 31 Beholder 
33 Whisper sweet nothings 
34 "_ Teen-age Werewolf" (1957 film) 
36 Ventilate 39 Leave, in 60's 
slang 42 Computer key 43 Merlin of TV's 
"Father Murphy" 44 Prefix with 
classic or natal 45 Skin soother . 47 Build on 51 Pacify 54 Small worker 
in a big organization 56 Elementary particle 57 Reveal for the first time 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

60 "I'll give you $500 for this old car," e.g. 
63 Pref ix with legal 64 Far from shore 65 The Scales, 
astrologically 66 "Like _ not" 67 Be a snitch 68 Receiver of 
prayers 69 Zero 70 Otherwise 
DOWN 
1 Intimidates mentally, with "out" 
2 Stuck and not going anywhere 3 Sense of taste 4 Not guaranteed, after "on" 5 $100 bill 6 Least heavy 
7 Farm measure 8 Teeny-tiny 9 Groundwork 


10 Blow up 11 CD-_ 12 Ostrich's cousin 13 Item on a 
dancer's heel 21 Be positive 
time 26 Supply-and­
demand subj. 27 Casanova type 28 "_to worry" 30 World's longest 
river 
bumpkin 

PUUle by MIich Komro 
35 "Relax, soldier!" 37 When glaciers 
advanced 38 Tear to bits 39 Ooze 40 Alka-Seltzer 
sound 41 Subatomic bit 42 Gene 
component 46 One way to get 
wet 

48 Fuel for big rigs 49 Steam bath garb 
50 Bargain-hunter's favorite words 52 Film critic Roger 53 Large grouping 55 Chicago hub 58 Green Hornet's aide 
59 Basketball Hall• of-Farner Archibald 
60 Worn out 
61 "Fee _toe tum• 
62 Hoover's org. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

GET 
F 
E I 

SATURDAY 
9 PM --FREE 
NE BALLROOM 

-

By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's defeated Calvin 8-1 Wednesday to clinch the regular sea­son MIAA championship for the Belles. The conference championship is the first ever for Saint Mary's. 
"We're ecstatic," Belles' co-captain Annie Knish said. "We knew we were going to be a strong team, but we didn't expect to finish in first." 
Coming into today's match, Calvin was ranked No. 3 in the MIAA with

( 
i. Saint Mary's holding first. The Belles
I ' I 
tied with the Knights last year for sec-
Diaper Dandies 
Oops I Crapped My Pants falls 21-18 to Pemchenko in Bookstore Basketball XXX play Thursday. 
page 12 
O
THE 

page 20 BSERVER Friday, April 20, 2001 

ond place in the MIAA. A solid team bles," Stevenson said. "They've been was expected, but clinching the No. 1 moving together and communicating." 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Belles clinch Saint Mary's first-ever MIAA title 
BASEBALL 

') 
j Pitch to the top 


.. 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK Assistant Spons Editor 
To be 31-5-1 and ranked second in the country, quality pitching isn't a luxury, it's a necessity. Under assis­tant coach Brian O'Connor, the Irish pitching staff has been simply domi­nant this season, sporting a 2.61 staff ERA -the best in the country. 
O'Connor, now in his seventh sea­son with the Irish baseball program, has also been charged with seeking out the future Aaron Heilmans and Brian Staviskys of the world as recruiting coordinator for the Irish. 
Head coach Paul Mainieri will readily attest to the value of having O'Connor on his staff. "He's as responsible for our success as any factor," Mainieri said. "His ability to recruit and work with pitchers is unmatched in college baseball." 
The Science of Pitching 
It is O'Connor's responsibility to work with and instruct Notre Dame's 
15 pitchers, and he has molded them into one of the country's top staffs. In the period spanning 1997 through 1999, each year's staff eclipsed the previous Notre Dame team record for strikeouts. 
But O'Connor is quick to credit his players for their outstanding perfor­mances on the field. 
"I think the No.1 thing to credit to that is that we have a lot of ability," O'Connor said. "My job's pretty easy, my job is to just point them in the right direction. I don't need to tell these veteran players, 'You need to 
see BAS.EBALL/ page 16 
SPORTS 

F-ATA 
GLANCE 

spot in the conference was a pleasant sur­"We're ecstatic. We knew prise. 
we were going to be a 
"They earned it," 
strong team. but

head coach Dee Stevenson said. "The we didn't expect worked hard. They to finish in first. ·• never quit." 
Co-captains Natalie 
Annie Knish

Cook and Knish 
Belles' tennis co-captain 

exemplified that "never quit" motto, playing late into dusk 
The pair began the game on a low note. They dropped the first set 6-1 to Calvin's Kait Disselkoen and Sally Skodinski. But Cook and Knish didn't let that first set get their spirits down. 
"We haven't played doubles since Saturday," Knish 

to win the No. 1 doubles point. said. "We just told ourselves that the "We can always count on our dou-set was our warm up." 

Irish pitching coach Brian O'Connor ( right) provides instruction to Irish star pitchers Danny Tayamo (left) and Aaron Heilman (center) above. O'Connor is regarded as one of the nation's top collegiate pitching coaches. 
. 
photos by 
TIMKACMAR 

at Big East Championships rti) Miami, Fla. 
e..­
Today -Sunday 
at Big East Championships Miami, Fla. 

~ 
.....7.'"'Y 
Today-Sunday 

Softball 


Knish and Cook took the lead early in the second set and hung on, until Disselkoen and Skodinski came back. The set was tied at six and the two teams had to face off in a tiebreaker. 
"We just had to stay up," Cook said. "Fight back and keep the point." 
The Belles kept the important point, taking the tiebreaker 8-6. But one tiebreaker wasn't enough for the No. 1 doubles players. 
Disselkoen and Skodinski took the first point in the third set and managed to hold onto a one point lead most of the set. Trailing by one point, Knish 
see W. TENNIS/page 18 
Meyer slam key to Irish comeback 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 

The Irish knew they would get a game from Central Michigan Thursday evening at Frank Eck Stadium. They knew that the Chippewas carried six players with batting averages above .300, that they had won nine of 11, and that they were looking to steal away a game from the highly-ranked Notre Dame team. 
What the Irish didn't know was that they would be one strike away from a 4-2 upset. 
Notre Dame made mistake after mistake in the sloppily played contest, stranding 12 runners on base and commit­ting four errors in the field. All was forgotten, however, when junior Ken Meyer sent an 0-2 . pitch sailing over the left field fence with the bases loaded and two outs in the ninth inning for a game-ending grand slam. 
"I wasn't even thinking about a home run," said Meyer, who was inserted as a designated hitter in place of Matt Bok. "With two strikes I just wanted to hit the ball somewhere and keep the rally going." 
The Irish actually started off the inning with a bloop single from shortstop Alec Porzel, but 
see GAME/page 14 
Rowing at Virginia Tech at Midwest Sprints 
31l 
• 
Saturday, 11 a.m. Saturday, 8 a.m. Men's Lacrosse 
Baseball at Fairfield vs. Villanova Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Saturday, 12:05 p.m. 


