
The Boss is back 
Mrs. Muffet goes to Washington
The latest live album by Bruce Springsteen 
Tuesday
President Bush recognizes the· women's basket­
captures both the intensity ofhis youth and 
ball team at the White House. 
the timeless quality ofhis music. 
Section . page 4 
APRIL 24, 
Scene . page 13 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV N0.127 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


ND alumnus remains missing in Bolivia 
will assist in efforts to find missing, and has included foot newspapers. A video of the III in a statement Thursday.
By TIM LOGAN 
Poirier, a 22-year-old Peace and helicopter searches of the Poirier family began airing on But Poirier's family. and 
Senior Staff Writer 
Corps volunteer last seen Feb. area near his home and on Bolivian television last week, then Meehan, argued that the 
22. The U.S. Embassy in routes and the Peace search was unorganized. and The Federal Bureau of Bolivia has been leading the Poirier com­Corps has that Poirier deserved better
"This is a rare and
Investigation (FBI) has joined search thus far, with help from monly trav­offered a investigative efforts. the search the Bolivian government and e I e d unprecedented situation reward for "I got the for Walter the Peace Corps. between information. sense that the See Also
for the Peace Corps and it 
Poirier. a The FBI announced it would Bolivia's "I assure the investigation
is our sincere hope that "Alumni hold
2000 Notre join the effort last week, after capital of La Poirier family on the ground Dame grad­Poirier's congressman Rep. Paz and vil­we find this young man and the Peace in Bolivia was vigil for student" uate who Marty Meehan (D-Mass.) and lages where ,. Corps family not an investi­
soon. 
page4

w a s Massachusetts senators Ted he worked that we will gation . the declared Kennedy and John Kerry in the Zongo continue to pur­United States missing in wrote a letter to Attorney Valley, two Charles Baquet Ill sue the search government could be proud Bolivia on General John Ashcroft calling hours away. Peace Corps Acting Director and the investi-of," the congressman told The March 5. the investigation to find Poirier Officials gation until Boston Globe as a representa­
Four FBI "haphazard and disjointed." have also Walter is tive of Lowell, Mass., Poirier's agents and a detective from The investigation began monitored border crossings found," said Peace Corps· the Miami Police Department when Poirier was declared and printed Poirier's picture in Acting Director Charles Baquet see BOLIVIA/page 4 


Council rejects parietals extension 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
While the Campus Life Council on Monday approved a measure proposing an extension in University parietal hours, on-cam­pus students shouldn't expect a change in late-night visiting hours with members of the opposite sex. 
That's because although CLC members passed a resolution clause calling for parietals to end an hour earlier in the morning than now. a second clause that would extend them an hour later in the evening fell one vote short of passage. 
Another resolution that proposes uniform 12:30 a.m. parietal hours on Sundays in all residence halls was also defeated. 
"This is simply a request to allow members of the opposite sex to have more hours each day to interact with each other in the pri­vacy of their own rooms," said Seth Whetzel, who served on the Student Senate committee that· drafted the resolution which would extend parietals to 1 a.m. on weeknights and end them at 9 
a.m. every day. 
The resolution's introduction to the CLC came after its passage in the senate and a senate survey that polled students' opinions on changing the longstanding hours. 
Of 3,038 survey respondents, 2,429 -about 80 percent -said they were in favor of extending parietals past midnight during the week. Another 2,378, some 78 percent, responded that they were in favor of ending parietals before 10 a.m. each morning. 
"When 80 percent of students make it perfectly clear that the extension of parietals is in their best interest, I'd like to give them the benefit of the doubt," Whetzel said. 
Many agreed that ending pari­etals at 9 a.m. every day was a good idea. 
"It just makes sense," said Sister Pat Thomas, Walsh Hall rectress. "Students are up, they're going to class, they're meeting with each other." 
The CLC voted 13-3 to end the hours at 9 a.m. Members will for­ward the change to the Office Student Affairs for consideration. Debate over extending parietals in the other direction divided the council along student-staff lines. 
Members voted 10-6 to push parietals to 1 a.m, but the vote was one short of the two-thirds majority required for passage.. 
Luciana Reali, who also helped pass the resolution in the senate, said the proposal allows for stu­dents to work together later at p.ight and encourages an integra­tion between students' academic and social lives in residence halls. 

But rectors and administrators argued that parietals serve an important purpose in halls. Parietals affect not only students but hall staff as well, according to Brother Jerome Meyer, Knott Hall rector. 
"There's a lot involved in pari­etals that people who arc in favor of extending them don't realize," Meyer said. "It's my impression of parietals after midnight that it's not studying. Several rectors expressed similar concerns that moving parietals to 1 a.m. would cut into students' quiet time in dorms. 
"The truth of the matter is the majority of us don't go to bed at midnight," said senior Amy Szestak. "Pushing [parietals] back to 1 a.m. wouldn't have a drastic effect on quiet hours." 
"If you want quiet hours, tell the 
see CLC/page 8 

Committee unveils new ticket system 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 

Forget the campouts and picnics; when it comes to receiving their football tickets, students ask just two things of a distribution system: that it be fast and conve­nient. 
That's been the overwhelming response to inquiry into the subject, . according to student government officials who are hoping to deliver both speed and convenience in the fall with Kickoff 2001. 
Kickoff is a modified -and siin­pler -version of last year's ticket distribution system, said Peter 


Rossmann, president of the Oass of Norton 2002. 
"We talked to students and looked at the system from last year," Rossmann said. "What we found is that stu­dents want us to siinplify the process as much as possi­ble." 
The changes include coordinating the distribution of lottery numbers with enrollment day and providing a timetable for lottery-number holders to purchase tickets. 
"People can go to enrollment on Monday at the Joyce [Center] then cross the street to pick up a lottery number [at the ticket office]," Rossmann said. "We know how busy things are at the beginning of the year, and this turns two events into one trip." 
A guideline for ticket buying is another added feature of the 2001 system. The guideline is a schedule that gives approximate times for lottery-number holders within a certain range of the selected lottery number to arrive to purchase tickets. Other ideas included under consideration was a mail-in distribution system. 
"We worked on the mail-in system for a while, but the ticket office didn't feel like it had the capacity to do that," Norton said. "Alumni and season-ticket holders· applica­tions are taken care of over the summer, and the office couldn't handln the student applications, too."Rossmann acknowledged Student Senate-conducted surveys indi­cate thafmost studcnt.5 fa.vor mail-in distribution. 
"If that's what students want, then we'll look into the possibility of it fur next year," Norton said. "Either this [Kickoff 2001] can be the system from here on, or it can be a one-year tl1i.ng." 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Unanswered Questions 

In my attempt to understand human beings more fully, I have assembled a list of what I consider unexplained phenomena. They appear to be obvious questions with obvious answers. But just think: do 
you get it? Read on and see if you, too, are per­plexed by the wonder of humanity. 
Why is ft that ... 

Pink is an acceptable shirt color for women and not men? 
We always question 


whether an actor is gay if Christine Kraly
he/she plays a gay charac­
ter? (Do we question if an 
actor is straight?) 
Senior Staff
People follow their 
Writer

heads and not their 
hearts? Following your head seems so much easier? 
Women enjoy shopping and men don't? (Aren't the men supposed to be the hunters? Well, then hunt down those groceries, let us stay at home). 
Less than half the country votes for the 

president? 
Women go to the bathroom in packs? (I admit to doing this, yes. But, my God, why?) Men never say they love a woman in uni­form? 
The "dining hall guy" never realizes he's the "dining hall guy?" Later, "Dining hall guy" will be found dancing drunkenly sans rhythm at your next party, and therefore lose his "dining hall guy" legend status? (He now becomes "freaky dancing drunk"). 
Hormones can wreak havoc with your sani­ty? 
He doesn't come talk to you when you flash him your clearest "come talk to me" or "you're in trouble" look? 
The girl talking his ear off doesn't realize that you rule his world, not her? (If only he'd realize you were flashing him that damn look). 
Women are so petty? (Try to deny it, ladies, but we definitely are). That pettiness usually revolves around men? 
Human beings force themselves to change (be it location, friends. goals)? And why is the change is so hard? 
No matter how much you tell yourself it doesn't hurt, it still does? 
Females wear make-up and males don't? (Really, why do we paint ourselves and they don't? It seems like it would be a simple answer, but it's not). 
The person you'd like to call never does? 

Two people can perceive the same thing so differently? 
You can share some things with your sis­ter/brother, but not everything? (You share blood; secrets should be no big deal). 
These questions may never be fully 

answered? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
Scene News Sam Derheimer Kiflin Turner Chris Scott Kate Nagenga.sl Graphics Finn Pressly Karie McKenna 
Sports Production 
Lauren Conti Rachael Protzman Viewpoint Lab Tech Kurt Bogaard Naomi Cordell 

The Ohserver (US!'S 5?9 2-4000) is publi,he<l Monday through Friday ~xci:pt during c-x:im and vacation periods. The Observtt is a member of the ,~ociaccd PrcSi. All rcpro<luuion .right~ arc rcsc.vcd. 

GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 
Cheney gives GW $3.12 million 
WASHINGTON 
Vice President Dick Cheney will show his apprecia­tion for 23 years of heart treatment by donating $3.12 million to the GW Medical Faculty Associates to create the Richard 8. Cheney Cardiovascular Institute, Cheney's press secretary said. The institute will advance education, research and clinical care of car­diovascular diseases, MFA media specialist David Garofalo said. Cheney has been treated at the George Washington University Hospital since 1978, and GW treated him twice this school year. in November and March. If he requires cardiac treatment again, he could conceivably be a patient of the new institute, Garofalo said. "He has bf)en very happy with the med­ic al care [at GWJ," said Juleanna Glover Weiss, Cheney's press secretary. "He is grateful for their assistance in his coronary artery disease." The insti­tute, housed in the MFA building at 2150 Pennsylvania Ave., will focus on new techniques for the diagnosis and treatment of heart diseases. 

BOWLING GREEN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Search for body is over 
BOWLING Gl{EEN, Ohio 

A body believed to be of a 1999 university graduate was found Friday buried on the northeast corner of Bowling Green State University campus, Alan Mayberry, Wood County's prosecuting attorney, confirmed Saturday. The site where the body was buried is used as a dump for the Union construction project. Autopsy results have not been announced yet, but it is believed the remains are of Michelle Salerno, a former university student and a gradu­ate student at Michigan State University. She has been missing from East Lansing, Mich. since last June. Although authorities won't confirm yet where they received informa­tion on the location of the body, police reportedly led her ex-husband, Dennis Salerno -a suspect in her disappear­ance -to the construction dump on campus at around 10 
p.m. Thursday night. Salerno also met with the Michigan State Police last Tuesday. At about 11 p.m. Thursday he was reportedly returned to the Wood County jail where he is awaiting trial for the murder of Larry McOannahan, a truck driver found stabbed to death last July. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather~forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather«> forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 24. 
cow WARM STATIONARY
0 2001 Aec.uWNther lno. 
Prnsin: . 

®© . CJD... 
High L.ow Showen Rein T••tonna flurrlet Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Wim A.Not:lweci Prou 
Atlanta 69 50 Las Vegas B7 61 Ponland 70 50 Bal1imore 78 50 Memphis 68 48 Sacramento 84 52 Boston 76 50 Milwaukee 58 40 St. Louis 64 47

q_~_~A,Q.Ql1~u 
Chicago 61 41 New York 78 52 Tampa B3 66
Sllowe,s T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Jee Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy 
Via A!t:JOCUlled Prss:, OraphbNe1 Houston 77 60 Philadelphia 81 52 Washington DC 77 51 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
"/ hope he is coming  "We want to get the  "I've had a great time  "We were sitting  
because he wants to  point across that kids  here at Notre Dame,  around with no  
come, but we did  who live offcampus  and now I'm going to  visitors, as usual,  
have several people  shouldfeel just as  chase a dream I've  looking for ways to  
close to him put in a  secure as any other  hadfor my entire life."  amuse ourselves."  
good wordfor us. "  citizen in South Bend. "  
Troy Murphy  Jonathan Jorlssen  
Dennis Moore  John Williams  All-American basketball  Carroll Hall resident on how  
Director of Public Relations  South Bend Police captain  player on his decision to  his donnmates created a  
on Bush's choice to speak at  after students were robbed  leave Notre Dame to enter  game they call  
Notre Dame's commencement  during Easter break  the NBA draft  'barrel bowling'  

Compiled from U•Wire reports



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Harvard officials discuss options for sit-in 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
situation, administrators have a myri­
The occupation of Massachusetts ad of options-ranging from letting the Hall by the Progressive Student Labor protesters stay in Mass. Hall until the Movement (PSLM) has now become summer to sending the police in and one of the longest sit-ins in Harvard arresting everyone, as the University University's history-and administra­did back in 1969. tors are still debating their options as What will happen in the coming the stand-off moves into its fifth day. days hinges on a variety of factors: the 
The most unlikely option, adminis­Y. protesters' conduct inside the build­
,,' .. j ~ 
.. r _,.,..

trators agree, is that University will ing. their stamina for the protest and grant the protesters' demands and public response to the Living Wage offer workers the "living wage" of istrators have been meeting daily, in Campaign, among others. $10.25 an hour. person and over the phone and e-mail All sides involved said the University 
"We're certainly not going to speak to discuss the developing situation and would take no action against the pro­to them while they're occupying a weigh possible options: For now, testers during pre-frosh weekend, building," University Spokesperson Harvard police chief Francis D. "Bud" which ends today. Joe Wrinn said Sunday. Riley and Associate Dean of the According to administrators, the sit­
With the administration ignoring the College David Illingworth '71 have -u ation in the building is growing protesters' demands for negotiations, been left with day-to-day control of increasingly tense, with secretaries the stand-off appears as if it might the situation. and police facing harassment from drag on indefinitely. University admin-In addition to trying to talk out the protesters. 


Tuesday, April 24, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Proposal calls for more
CAPP creates marketable students 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Associate News Editor 
Upon graduation, many Arts & Letters students find themselves desperately look­ing for a job. Although these students may have earned a quality liberal education, m a n y companies turn to business students when hir­ing recent graduates. 
However, students pursu­ing a.n Arts & Letters educa· tion (and even a few busi­ness majors) don't have to be left out in the cold thanks to the many benefits of the University's Computer Applications second major. 
Widely referred to as CAPP, the program aims to prepare students for the business world. 
"Businesses hire more of our kind of students than techies because we know how to deal with data and how to change it to help management make deci­sions," said CAPP advisor Louis Berzai. 
"We have a strong pro­gram to help the students prepare for the future. It is to help the students have a better understanding of the field of Information Systems." 
Begun in the late 1970s by 


community involvement
a few professors hoping to future in fields such as 
give Arts & Letters students accounting, urban planning, compuier research experi• telecommunications, risk ence, the program has management, and software 
By MYRA McGRIFF 

grown significanlly in the support. 
Saint Mary's Editor 

ensuing years. "CAPP just seemed like an When Berzai joined the obvious choice f'or me." said In Monday's public strategic 
program in 1984, there were junior CAPP major Carolyn planning committee meeting,
only four or five professors D'Amore. 
students, faculty and staff had

and a few dozen students "I am majoring in history, 
the opportunity to view the ini­

enrolled. but with CAPP I can have tiatives pro-Today, the program's sev­some job opportunities when 
posed byeral hundred students l graduate." 

the Steering 

depend on the strengths of at According to the program's 
Committee.

least 17 professors. includ­Website, surveys of graduat­
Mary Joing Berzai who teaches sev­ing seniors "show 89 percent 

Regan­

eral classes a semester. 

"We have been 
"I love 

successful because we
working with the CAPP stu­have some dedicated dents. l think 
people who care about 
we have 

some of the the program.,. brightest stu­den ts on 
Louis Berzal 
campus in 

CAPP advisor
the pro­gram. I also like to teach. 
or more of 
Kubinski,
those enter­
member of
ing the 
the Steering 
work force 
committee
found jobs 
as well as Eldred
before 
co-chair of
graduation. 
the curriculum committee pre­
with many 
sented a project entitled, Jubilee 
receiving 
Community Commitment:
multiple 
Building a Leaming Community, 
offers. 
as a part of the tentative propos­
The sur­
al of the Strategic Plan. 
veys also 
The Steering committee, com­
report that 
prised of two co-chairs from the 



I managed data centers 98 percent of graduates 
five original committees gath­for 20 to 25 years. I enjoy believed CAPP was crucial to ered data from over the last year

doing this better," Berzai the job offers they received 
to present four main goals for

said. and 79 percent reported 
Saint Mary's to accomplish over

The CAPP program puts higher salaries than other 
the next five years. Using infor­

students through a rigorous Arts & Letters majors." 
mation complied from the com­

list of requirements, includ­Despite the many positive 
mittees of: curriculum, diversity, 

ing four applications cours­aspects of the CAPP pro­
student development, technolo­

es. two programming lan­gram, Berzai said some 
gy. and marketing/communica­

guage courses, one statistics adjustments are necessary in tion-Kubinski explained the pur­course and one ethics order to support the contin­pose behind each of the four 
course. ued growth. 
main goals. 

Students can also apply "We have been successful 
"The strategic plan asks the

in terns hip and teaching because we have some dedi­
questions: where are we now?

assistant experience towards cated people who care about Where do we want to go? How
the major. the program," he said, 
do we get there? How will weStudents said the wide adding that more professors track our success? And how do

variety of course require­and more money would be a 
we measure our success?" said ments prepare them for their great benefit. 

Kubinski. Attempting to answer these 


ANTOSTA.1-2001 
university of notre dame april 25-27 its' coming ... get ready! 
4.25 • • • Outdoor movie • • • Ferris Bueller's Day Off Bands • • • Food and Fun • • • Laser Tag 

questions Kubinski presented the collective work of the Strategic Planning Committee and the Steering committee. In designing the Strategic Planning proposal. the steering committee not only specified the proposal's main goals but also the initiative and action needes to bring the goals into fruition. 
The first of the four goals, to educate women to make a differ­ence in a complex world, hopes to fulfill at least four outlined ini­tiatives. One of those initiatives, to examine and renew the assessment of student learning at Saint Mary's, encompasses three separate actions to assure that the original goal is achieved. 

To legitimize the written checks and balances, the steer­ing committee will assign indi­viduals or groups to each of the initiatives and subsequently the actions of those initiatives, " W c have actions detailed and identi­fied who will be responsible for the completion of the action based on the timeline," said Kubinski. . 
Considering that the entire Strategic plan rests on a five year time line, Kubinski also emphasized the need for a com­munity effort to reap potential positive results of the plan. ln efforts to involve the community, the steering committee asked for feedback from the audience on the presented material. 
Not grasping the technical lan­guage of the proposal some were confused on how the strategic plan would organize the fulfill­ment of the four goals. Many were especially concerned specifically on how the commit­tee would decide which of the four goals should receive atten­tion first. 
"In the process [of the timelineJ there will a prioritizing of goals," said Kubinski. However others expressed concern over the doc­ument's general outline as well as what might happen after the Board of Trustees passes the proposal, tentatively in June 2001. 
The feeling expressed is that the whole document's purpose can change once approved by the Board due to the general nature of the proposal. Saint Mary's President, Marilou Eldred addressed this potential concern on the fate of the proposal. 
"The point [of the Strategic Plan] is to set a direction for the college and change [the plan] as we need to," said Eldred. 
Eldred stressed that changes in the plan would also necessi­tate a community effort. Not only was there an emphasis on receiving feedback for the initial proposal after reviewal by the Board, but also for future pro­posals as well. Eldred also stat­ed that the planning committee wants to have yearly focus groups ensuring that the college is still on target. 

Slip and Tide • • • Karoke • • • ACOUSTIC AnTostal 
4.27 • • • Breakfast • • • DJ • • • Inflatables • • • Tie Dyeing • • • Free Laundry • • • KGB Concert 
movies of the week •• • Proof of Life • • • Billy Elliot ................•..............•..............•..•................................. 
Plus , proctored practice exams 
··················································································· 
4 es ofpractice material­
3 'A.Ts worth ofpractice passages 
...GOO TIJEN OJ.c\L>E <..lJ.3..N. TlJE L1. ..\.L\.)..NS fOR 'fl)El R BEAUTY. 
Proven Results-
TtJE FRENC)J f-01-l. f'.LNE FOOt'I. 


point average score improvement
TbE 5\VE\)ES f=OR U,JTEl.LlGENCE, A.Nb Ot-J 3.ND ON UNTlL l)E LOOkED 
Risk Free• 
.U Wl)3..T l)E l)3..t, CRE..\.TEL'l ..\.Nt'> S3..ID, 
Try us for a week
*Thts lS 3..IJ_ VEJ{Y FINE. t3UT NO ONE lS IJAVlNG FUN.­
S~parate from your competition. 
__.., 

Classes for the Aug. MCAT ~fie start in early June! PrinCefOn \"~al/ to sign up today! Review 
ww"w.~m-· 800.2REVIEW 
\..r., ' 
Bolivia 
continued from page 1 
hometown. 
Meehan noted investigators failed to transcribe interview tapes, and that no one exam­ined Poirier's e-mails to look for clues to his whereabouts. Peace Corps spokeswoman Susan Buchanan noted that the Privacy Act prevents them from accessing Poirier's Yahoo! e-mail account and that they would not release interviews from an investigation that was still underway. 
Poricr was la.st seen at a meeting in LaPaz with his pro­gram director, on Feb. 22, according to Buchanan. Beyond that, there are few hard facts. 
Some have speculated Poirier was killed in a mudslide, although Bolivian authorities reported no lethal mudslides in recent months. 
Poirier's parents have sug­
gested he was kidnapped. "Ransom" kidnappings. where a group of people kidnap some­one, hold them hostage for a long period of time, and then contact the family demanding a ransom, have been known to occur in some South American countries in recent years. But there is no evidence of that, either, Buchanan said. 
Poirier arrived in Bolivia in June and spent his first three months receiving training in language and life skills and in the eco-tourism development he was doing in his tour. He began work in August. 
The two months he has been missing is the longest period of time a.ny volunteer has been unaccounted for in the organi­zation's history. 
"This is a rare and unprece­dented situation for the Peace Corps and it is our sincere hope that we find this young man soon," Baquet said. 
Material from The Boston Globe was used in this report. 

Alumni hold vigil for student 
from those who knew Poirier Closer to the Dome. Zahm 
By TIM LOGAN 

and a letter from University and Keenan Halls are organiz­
Senior Staff Writer 

President Father Edward ing a fundraising drive in 
Malloy. Poirier's name. The dorms are 
While investigators search The service was organized asking other halls to take up for missing Peace Corps vol­in efforts to give Notre Dame collections for Dismas House, unteer Walter Poirier in alumni in Boston a chance to a halfway house where stu­Bolivia. members of the Notre come together and pray for dents live with ex-convicts. Dame community in the Poirier. Poirier lived there his senior United States are getting "We decided we should do year, after being president of together to something in Zahm llall briefly at the end of pray for and the city, afler his junior year.
"We decided we should
remember work hours, The campaign is trying to the 2000 do something in the city, so everyone raise $15,000 for renovations could make to Dismas House, by the end
graduate. after work hours, so 
The Notre it," said of the week. Hall staff are 
everyone could make it."
Dame Club of Bryan Furze, organizing the campaign in Boston is president or each dorm. the club. "From what I hear, it's
holding a Bryan Furze 
prayer vigil Poirier is going well so far," said Chris
president, Notre Dame Club
this evening from Lowell, Martin, Keenan Hall presi­
of Boston
in the city's Mass., a city dent. Copley about 40 Students will be taking Square. Father John miles north of donations for the drive on McCarthy, a 1948 alumnus, Boston. More than 200 people Thursday in North Dining Hall will lead the service, which attended a service there on and Friday in South Dining will also include reflections April 11. Hall. 
Bush honors basketball team in Washington 
By TIM CASEY 
Senior Staff Wrircr 
It's been over three weeks since 

the women's basketball team won 
its first national championship but 
the celebration continues. On 
Monday, President George W. 
Bush honored the Irish at the 
White House. President Bush also 
addressed the men's basketball 
national champions, Duke 
University, at the morning cere­
mony. 
"I was looking at some of the 

footage I taped when we were 
there," freshman guard Jeneka 
Joyce said on Monday night. "It's 
ama;,ing that we were in the Oval 
Office. A lot of people never have 
that opportunity." 
Coach Muffet McGraw presented 

a gold Notre Dame uniform to 
Bush, with UG.W.Bush 1" embla­
zoned across the back. Moments 
before, the president addressed 
both teams and offered some 
humorous anecdotes. "I'm 
reminded about what Coach 
McGraw's son, (10-year old] 
Murphy, said as he watched the 
[national titlel game," Bush said. 
"He said, 'That was scary.' 
Murphy. I know what you're talk­
ing about It reminds me of elec­
tion night." 
Bush then alluded to the oft­

repeated portrayal of the Irish as 
an unselfish, mature, virtually 
problem-free squad. 
"I love what Coach McGraw 

said," Bush said. "She said, 
'Usually there are negative' things 
lhat occur during the season. But 
this year I've had not to call a sin­
gle team meeting. I've gotten no 
complaints from professors. We 
can't even yell at the players, 
because they do everything we 
/'-----------"\
49¢g~~~s
single-sided on 8.5" x 11• 28 lb. paper. You'll be amazed by the quality. 

(()py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 

On Iha Campua ol the University ol Noire Dame 
Call 631 ~COPY FREE Pick-Up & Delivery 
See store for details. 

Coupon required. Hurry -expires 514101.
,N:v~d.:it:::o~e:tt.::d:o:~ 
ask.• I need your help with Congress." 
Most of the Notre Dame contin­gent, which included athletic department officials. team man­agers and coaches, arrived in Washington on Sunday morning. A few players, including recent WNBA draft choices Ruth Riley, Niele Ivey and Kelley Siemon trav­eled to the nation's capital early Sunday evening. 
On Sunday afternoon, the Irish toured several of the District's landmarks, including the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, Jefferson Memorial and the Lincoln Memorial. The next morning. the Irish and Blue Devils arrived at the White House and were sUITound­ed by several members of the Secret Service. 
"You did notice them. with their black sunglasses," Joyce said. "I saw them everywhere. But the whole environment was so relaxed. Everything seemed so ordinary." 
During his speech, the President singled out Riley and Duke's Shane Battier. the national players of the year. Both Riley and Battier were also named Academic All­Americans. Riley, Battier, and their teannnates toured the White House after the ceremony. 

"I want to remind people who may not know their histories that not only were [Riley and Battier] great players, they're great peo­ple," Bush said. "Not only did they set goals about being the best on the basketball court, they set goals of becoming all-academic stars, and they were. They set goals of understanding the Golden Rule, and living by it. These are good people. And I'm sure your team­mates are, as well. But they set the kind of example that America needs." 
Riley and the rest of the seniors will have a chance to see the President again in a few weeks. Bush will address the class of 2001 at the May 20th graduation cere­monies. 
"Everybody's joking that when he comes out here, we'll all know him, give him hugs and high fives," senior Kelley Siemon said. 
''There's no way this year could have been better," Joyce said. "No way." 

TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! 
Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 2002-2003. 
Al~ first year _students, sophomores and especially juniors interested 1n Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor Andrew Gould 
Wednesday evening,April 25, 2001 at 6:00 pm in room 136 DeBartolo 
''--------,,-.,,.===================dJ 

ATION 
Tuesday, April 24, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Intruders target AIDS activist: Three armed men entered the room of South Africa's youngest AIDS activist early Monday. held his nurse up at gunpoint and robbed his home. No one was injured in the robbery, Nkosi Johnson's foster mother, Gail Johnson, told the South African Press Association. Nkosi, 12, contracted AJDS from his mother. who died in April 1997. 
South Pole mission postponed: 
Rescue teams poised to airlift five sick Americans from two Antarctic research bases were forced Monday to postpone their risky missions, held back by high winds, blowing snow and low visibility. A twin-engine plane fit­ted with skis for landing gear is now scheduled to fly Tuesday from Punta Arenas, Chile, and pick up Dr. Ronald Shemenski. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Bus yard shooting kills one: A woman opened fire at a school bus yard early Monday, killing a man and wounding three women, police said. A woman police described as in her early 30s was taken into custody after the shooting at the Laidlaw bus yard that began just before 6 a.m. Rubens Dalaison. spokesman for San Jose Police Department, said he did not know the woman's job at the company. Investigators did not yet have a motive for the attack. 
Aorida wildfires close highway: A 2,000-acre fire fueled by persistent winds and dry grasses forced the closure Monday of an 18-mile stretch of U.S. 1, the main artery into the Florida Keys. The stretch of two-lane high­way between Florida City and Key Largo was expected to remain closed until Tuesday, said Laverne Guillen, spokeswoman for Miami-Dade Fire Rescue. Traffic was diverted to another road that was also temporarily closed by fire. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Two convicted of date rape: Two men have been convicted of raping women who prosecutors said had been slipped the date-rape drug GHB. One of the two women the men were convicted of raping in October 1999 fell into a comma and died nine days later. Prosecutors say someone put Gamma-hydroxybutyrate -a clear. slightly salty chemical also known as liq­uid x -the victims' drinks, but could not prove who did it. Nicholas Washington, 23, and Royce Glover, 27. admitted they took the women to a bedroom during a party at Washington's apart­ment and had sex with them, but said· the women were awake and alert. 
Market Watch April 23 

Dow 10,532.23 -47.62 Jones 
Composite 
Volume:
~ s~~: 
NIA 
AMEX: 903..54 -¼4.73 NASDAQ: 2,059.32 -104.00 NYSE: 618.77 4.58 S&P500: 1224.36 -18.62 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -9 .. 50 -1.82 17.33 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) -6.71 -3.25 45.15 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -13.16 -2.60 17.15 INTEL CORP (INTC) -6.51 -2.11 30.32 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SVNW) -10.86 -2.14 17.57 

Associated Press 

CAMANCHE, Iowa 
With high winds whip­ping the Mississippi River into waves that battered levees and buildings. vol­unteers and National Guard soldiers battled Monday to keep the river from overwhelming flood defenses. 
The flood crest that has been rolling slowly down the river through Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa and Illinois appeared to be arriving at the east­central Iowa community of Camanche. The Coast Guard arrived in what is usually a dry neighbor­hood to tie down a float­ing dock. 
It's not an official mea­surement site, but the water level on a pole out­side Jack Murphy's house measured 22.6 feet; the crest had been forecast at 23 to 24 feet, higher than the 1993 crest of 22.98 feet. 
"It's going to crest and it's going to stay there," said Steve Heckman, who has one of about 50 homes in the low-lying neighborhood of Swan's Slough. 
Downstream in Davenport -the largest 
urban area on the upper Mississippi without a per­manent flood wall -there were a couple of minor breaches in the wall of sandbags guarding down­town early Monday. 
Workers and National Guard soldiers plugged the leaks using nine dump truck loads of sand. said Dee Bruemmer, the city's public works director. 
The river is expected to crest late Tuesday at Davenport. 
Through Monday, 1,115 Iowa homes had been damaged by Mississippi flooding. about half of them secondary or vaca­
tion homes. said Kathy Stodola, spokeswoman for the state Emergency Management Division. 
About 300 people were forced from their homes. most of them residents of Abel-Essman Island near Guttenberg. Several hun­dred others had to leave homes in Wisconsin, where the river has been slowly receding. 
Camanche residents weary from working through a rainy night to shore up leaking sandbag levees labored to build yet another wall to contain water seeping through a railroad bed. 

YUGOSLAVIA 
Election gives secessionists majority 
other republic in Yugoslavia -and would boycott any referendum ­
Associated Press 

create a new Balkan nation. which would likely doom it from the 
PODGORICA "The results reveal a deep and dan­start, judging from Sunday's election 
Montenegro's pro-independence gerous split within Montenegro. They results. Because at least 50 percent of movement won only a slim election indicate that the agony of Yugoslavia all eligible voters must participate in victory in parliamentary elections, will continue." political analyst such a plebiscite for it to be valid, according to near-final results pub­Bratislav Grubacic told The Associated nearly all those supporting indepen­lished Monday, leaving it weakened in Press. He said that with tempers high dence would have to turn out -an its push for secession from Yugoslavia. over the issue and the Montenegrins unlikely prospect. 
With 98 percent of vote counted, about evenly split, Djukanovic risked Previous results published by the secessionists led by President Milo provoking violence -and even war -electoral commission had given Djukanovic had 42 percent of the vote, if he pushed ahead with plans for a Djukanovic's "Victory Belongs to compared to 40.6 percent for the anti­referendum on independence this Montenegro" coalition a close to five­
independence bloc. summer. percent lead over the anti-indepen­The thin edge was not what The closeness of the vote also posed dence "Together for Yugoslavia" -Djukanovic had hoped for in his drive another problem for Djukanovic. enough for Djukanovic to proclaim 
to break away from Serbia -the only Pro-Yugoslavia voters have said they victory. 
ND presents former Chilean president with award 

By MEG ANDERSON 
News Writer 
Eleven years ago, University 

President Father Malloy had 
the privilege of meeting a man 
who would heal an ailing 
nation. fn the wake of Chile's 
first democratic elections since 
Pinochet came to power, 
Malloy visited the country and 
the incumbent president of 
Chile, Patricio Aylwin Azocar, 
agreed to talk with him. 
"We had a full discussion about what his hopes and dreams were.'' Malloy said. 
On Monday evening, Father Malloy, in conjunction with the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and The Coca-Cola Company, presented Aylwin with the Notre Dame Prize for Distinguished Public Service in Latin America -a testament that Aylwin made his dreams a reality. 
The Notre Dame Award for Distinguished Public Service in Latin America is awarded to a Latin American who has shown distinction in public service and who is widely acknowl­edged to have served the pub­lic in an effective, honest and dignified manner. 
The recipient may work in any number of fields, such as government. nongovernmental organizations, religion, educa­tion, the media or any other civic involvement. The recipi­ent of last year's inaugural award was Enrique V. Iglesias, president of the Inter-American Development Bank. Corporation for Justice and 
Aylwin served as president of Democracy, which he founded. Chile from 1990 to 1994. As The program's objectives the leader of the Christian include promoting democratic Democratic Party. Aylwin suc­values and social development ceeded in establishing a gov­in youth. ernment whose objective was In his keynote address to the the rebuilding and consolida­Notre Dame community, tion of democracy in the after­Aylwin spoke of the necessity math of human rights viola­of implementing socioeconomic tions committed during policies that embrace Christian Pinochet's military dlclatorship teachings on human rights. (1973-90). "We cannot help but be pro­
Concurently, Aylwin spurred foundly disturbed by the 
the  Chilean  apparent  
economy into one of the fastest growth  "We cannot help but be profoundly disturbed by  inequality separating the rich from  
rates  of  the  the apparent inequality  the poor pop­ 
time.  separating the richfrom  ulations. Out  
As a result of his socioeco­ the poor populations. "  of the 6 hi!~ lion people  
nomic policy,  populating  
Aylwin  Patricio Aylwin Azocar  the  earth,  
reduced infla­ Former Chilean President  more  than  

tion, unem­
ployment and 
poverty. 
At the commencement of Monday's ceremony, Executive Vice President Father Timothy Scully addressed the crowd with words of respect and admiration for the former president's. 
"He [AylwinJ honors this award more than this award honors him," said Scully. 
Aylwin 's civic involvement did not end with his presiden­tial term. His primary concern was raising awareness about poverty and social inequalities that breed injustice and threat­en world peace. Currently, Aylwin works with the 

850 million 
adults are illiterate and over 40 million are malnourished," said Aylwin. 
The award ceremony is just one of the events in the two day conference sponsored by the Kellogg Institute entitled "Advances and Setbacks in the Third Wave of Democratization in Latin America." 
The conference continues through today at the Center for Continuing Education. Various papers will be presented throughout the day, culminat­ing with the inauguration of the visiting chair in the study of Brazilian culture at 5 p.m. in the CCE auditorium. 





Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity 
PRESENTS: 

April 27, 2001 
Sign Up Now! 
or on www.nd.edu/~habitat 
SDH April 24, April 25 
NDH& LaFun 
April 23 
Tuesday, April 24, 2001 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page7 
There's only one way to go. Up. 
As you begin your ascent to the top, remember, it's what you learn along the way that assures your suc­cess. At Ernst & Young, we give our recruits total access to the tools they need to gain knowledge and learn more about the marketplace. And because leadership skills are so important, we give them the opportunity to chal­lenge themselves by working with leading companies in leading indus­tries. The result? An atmosphere that's stimulating, innovative and creative. Talk about aplace 
where you can reall~ take off. 
FORTUNE" 
100 BEST 
COMPANIESg
TOWORKFORN 
vs· 
.iKl'IZIM 
~ 
Proud sponsor of 
!he U.S. Ski Team. 
e2001 E•Nsr & YouNe; ,,, 
Tuesday, April 24, 2001

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Board denies theatrical group club status 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Assistant News Editor 
After several weeks of wait­
ing for the Notre Dame Players, 
a theatrical group seeking club 
status recognition at Saint 
Mary's, to submit its constitu­
tion to the Board of 
Governance, the Board voted 
unanimously Monday to deny 
club status to the group. 
The Board had requested the group submit its constitution with revisions showing that Saint Mary's students were included in the constitution. One of the main reasons the Notre Dame Players approached Saint Mary's seek­ing club status was because groups that have club status at Saint Mary's cari. use ()'Laughlin Auditorium free of charge. 
Reservations about giving the Notre Dame Players club status at the College were raised because Saint Mary's already has a club, "Thespians Unplugged" geared towards those interested in theater. 
Katie Sullivan, a theatre pro­fessor at Saint Mary's voiced her concerns about recognizing the Notre Dame club at the Board meeting. 
"My antennae went up when I heard another group came from Notre Dame to apply to perform here," said Sullivan. "We already have concerns about our students being able to utilize O'Laughlin Auditorium and the Little Theatre for their performances and another group seeking to perform here cuts into the time our students have in those facil­ities. To me, to recognize their club so they can use O'Laughlin is to help them with a situation they will have resolved soon anyway with Notre Dame build­ing their new performing arts center." 
Sullivan also said that with 
gling at Saint Mary's because 
students are involved in so 
many different activities within 
the theater department, one 
more club would simply pull 
them in yet another direction. 
"Our students are already pulled in so many directions," said Sullivan. "Even if their club did want to help meet the needs of our students, our cur­rent club at Saint Mary's is struggling to attract student involvement." 
In other news: 
. Akmaral Omarova, former Student Diversity Board presi­dent was named the student representative to the Board of Trustees for the 2001-2002 school year. 
"I am really looking forward to being able to stand up for students at these meetings," said Omarova. 
. The Board unanimously approved a preliminary budget for the 2001-2002 school year.. 
"We are estimating conserva­tively an enrollment of 1,390 students which would result in an estimated amount for our budget of $208,500," said stu­dent body treasurer Kim Jensen. 
The Student Government Association's budget is made up of the $150 activity fee paid by every Saint Mary's student. The money is then primarily divided between the main Boards of student government including the Student Activities Council, Residence Hall Association, Student Diversity Board, Student Academic Council and Board of Governance. 
The Student Diversity Board will see an estimated increase of $5,000 to its budget, bring­ing its overall budget to $10,000. Student Activities Board will see an estimated increase of $6,300 to help with Pride Week Activities. This was the last Board of Governance 

Father remembers daughter in lecture 
By COURTNEY BOYLE 
News Writer 

After the death of his 18­year-old daughter. Lisa. to dating violence, Tom Santoro brought the spirit of his daughter alive Monday night in his "Dear Lisa" presenta­tion by stressing the impor­tance of trust and respect in all relationships. 
After breaking up with her boyfriend of five months Lisa was tragically beaten with a baseball bat and killed after her boyfriend planned her homicide. 
Santoro has now turned his energy to spreading the word about dating violence and sharing his story. He wants to make people aware by keep­ing Lisa's graduation wish of ending violence alive. 
In doing so, Santoro has made presentations in over 200 high schools and colleges sharing his story and a video he put together with clips of Lisa and her graduation speech. 
"My source of strength is the video of Lisa and knowing her dad is carrying out her vision, and my faith," Santoro said. 
Before going away to col­lege Santoro explained how 
Lisa ended with her boyfriend because she want­
ed  to  
move  on  
a  n  d  

because they just didn't click. 
There was no sexual or physical 

ten to each other during the meditated homicide. last five months. Santoro describes the rea­
Lisa did not think anything soning behind the homicide of going alone because she as being the familiar, "If I trusted him. something can't have her no one can" Santoro stressed as being way of thinking. This was the important in a relationship. logic that ultimately changed This night changed the lives many lives. of many, as Lisa never came "He ruined his life, took home. Lisa's life and destroyed mine 
Santoro  as  a  dad,"  
was working  Santoro said.  
at the fire­house the night his daughter  "My source ofstrength is the video ofLisa and knowing her dad is  While Lisa's life ended only three weeks  
was killed. He came home at six  carrying out her vision and my faith."  before was posed  she . sup-to  
and gave her  attend  the  
a  kiss  and  Tom Santoro  University of  
s  o  o  n  father of Lisa Santoro  Iowa,  her  

returned to work. An hour after Lisa's curfew she was still not home and her mother called her father. 
When he got home and Lisa still was not there he called the house where she was sup­posed to be only to receive an answering machine. 
"I went to the house and saw the police cars and the ambulance. I knew my daughter was dead. I knew because of my instinct as a fireman and a dad," Santoro said. 
Between the time Santoro 

a relationship 
"It doesn't have to be a slap or a punch, when your partner doesn't stop when you tell him to it's abuse." 
Tom Santoro father of Lisa Santoro 
was called and had gotten to the sight of his daughters mur­der, her mur­derer had left the scene and gone home to tell his stepfa­ther that he had just killed his ex-girlfriend and washed her blood all over his body. 
Santoro did not see him 
father lives 
on through writing in a journal to his only daughter. 
Ile said writing allows him to talk to Lisa whenever he wants. 
When his wife was later diagnosed with breast cancer it was Lisa he turned to for strength. 
While telling his tragic story of the death of Lisa, Santoro also stressed the importance of knowing what dating vio­lence is, and divides it into four categories; verbal, emo­tional, physical, and sexual abuse. According to Santoro anything can be abuse. · 
"If you don't stop when someone tells you to stop it's abuse," he said. "It doesn't have to be a slap or a punch, when your partner doesn't stop when you tell him to it's abuse." 
Santoro lives for the letters he receives from the students he talks to about dating vio­lence, something he never thought was necessary with Lisa. 
"I never sat down with Lisa, we never talked about dating violence. It's something I never thought about," Santoro said. "If I had known, she might be alive today." 

abuse in the relationship at the time. 
Shortly after the break-up Lisa and her boyfriend, upon his request, decided to return the letters that they had writ-until the trial began in which he pleaded not guilty. However, after a 21-month trial he was found guilty and sentenced to 7 5 years in prison because it was a pre­
"Thespians Unplugged" strug-meeting of the year. 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
hall staff to enforce them," senior Tony Wagner said. 
"There is a pervading sense that administrators don't allow students to think for themselves," Whetzel said. "If this resolution gets shot down. don't pat me on the head, say I did a good job but tell me that daddy knows best. Please spare me that." 
When members voted down the recommendation to extend parietals to 1 a.m., Whetzel immediately introduced an alternate resolution. 
The resolution called for an extension of parietal hours to 
12:30 a.m. only on Sundays and sprang from some dorms' practice of moving the hours to then. 
In a count that mirrored an earlier vote, the council voted 10-6 in favor of the resolution, defeating it, as it failed to gain a two-thirds majority. 


FRANK ECK STADIUl"'.I: 
Tuesday April 24 6pm 
.s&1~ /:t
NOTRE DAME BOWLING GREEN 

:NFennan-t 
15 eenli nob oogs,.
Elvis \.A/ill Be i"' 
Popcorn, and Pop
-the. Buifdit'""\qm 
sa aena &iDKe&s 
__ ...

&uc:IWPaftSWllllleceNB 
,....... a"IIINM::laackCap 
Come Dressed in '50's & '60's Clo-thing "to Win Prizes Studen·ts Alwa s Free!! 



Tuesday, April 24, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Survey: Americans approve of Bush 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Americans approve of President Bush's perfor­mance in office, but they don't necessarily agree with 
his priori­ 
ties or see  
him  as  
someone  
w  h  o  
under­ 
stands  
their prob­ 
lems,  a  
poll says.  
Six  in Bush  
10. or  63  
percent,  in  the  ABC­ 
Washington  Post  poll  

approved of the job Bush is doing, while 32 percent dis­
approved. 
The public about Bush's priorities, however. 
By a 2-1 margin, those polled said Bush is more inter­ested in holding down the size of government than in pro­viding need­
ed services. By the same mar­gin. they thought it was more important to provide needed services than to hold down the size of government. 
Just under half, 47 percent, thought Bush understands their problems while 51 per­cent said he doesn't. 
Some of the best news for the president came in the ea...-;ing fears of recession evi­dent in this poll. People were about evenly split over prospect of a recession. A month ago. nearly six in 10 thought a recession was on 
the way. 
By a 2-·1 margin. people 
thought the president cares 
more about protecting large 
corporations than about 
ordinary working people. 
And by 6-1. he was seen as 
more interested in economic 
growth and oil exploration 
than in environmental pro­
tection. Most said environ­
mental protection is more important to them. 
"You can admire the way a guy's doing his job, without necessarily loving where he's coming from," said Gary Langer, ABC News director of polling. "The danger 

South Pole workers rescued 
Ass<><:iated Press 
WELLINGTON, New Zealand 

A plane returned to New Zealand on Tuesday with four sick staffers and seven other Americans retrieved from a research station near Antarctica's coast -the first of two perilous rescue missions to the bottom of the world. 
A C130 Hercules landed on an 
ice runway at McMurdo Station 
on the last day of sunshine 
before the polar winter. To pre­
vent freezing in the minus 22 
temperatures, the engines were 
kept running for an hour while 
the evacuees were picked up. 
The overall flight took 15 hours 
before returning safely to 
Christchurch late in the day. 
Hours later, officials hoped to 
launch a second. riskier mission 
800 miles inland to the geo­
graphic South Pole to rescue a 
sick American doctor waiting for 
urgent treatment. Blowing snow, 
high winds and low visibility pre­
vented an emergency airlift on 
Monday. 
With little cloud and no wind. 
weather conditions were near 
ideal for the rescue mission at 
McMurdo. 
"Everything went to plan, all 
the patients are now off the 
plane and safe," New Zealand air 
force spokesman Flt. Sgt. Darren 
Bentley said by telephone from 
Christchurch. "The guys put in a 
lot of effort and hard work for 
this mission." 
John Sherve, New Zealand 
manager for U.S.-based 
Raytheon Polar Services.. 
described the mass evacuation 
as "unprecedented." 
He declined to comment on the 

patients' conditions, but New 
Zealand air force sources said one man had a serious heart condition that required urgent hospital treatment. 
Others evacuees had "family emergencies they need to go take care of," Sherve said. All 11 are employees of Raytheon, which provides support services at the McMurdo Base. 
There are 211 Americans left at the base following the evacua­tion, where they will winter until the next llights, scheduled in late August as Antarctica's spring begins. The evacuation flight car­ried fresh fruit and vegetables 
and person­al mail to the ice-and­snow bound base staff. 
In the sep­arate rescue effort, Ronald S. Shemenski. at the Amundsen Scott-South 
"Everything went to plan, tures now 75 
all the patients are now degrees below zero 143
offthe plane and safe." 
below with the wind chill ­Darren Bentley and skies are New Zealand air force spokesman nearly pitch­
condition would worsen in the coming months, when an airlift out of the South Pole would be virtually impossible. 
"The wind's blowing like hell. We're getting reduced visibility and blowing snow. If the winds calm down and there's less cloud cover, we'll get better visibility," said Steve Penikett, general manager of Kenn Borek Air Ltd., the Canadian a.irline company leading the evacuation for the doctor. 
Aviation experts say a landing at the South Pole now is especial­
ly dangerous 
with tempera­
black some 20 
hours of the 
day. 

The rescue effort is the second in two years. 
In October 1999, Dr. Jerri Nielsen, the lone physician at tl1e Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station was evacuated after she discovered a breast tumor that was diagnosed as cancerous. 
Antarctica is home to nearly 90 percent of the world's ice and 70 percent of the globe's fresh water. The third-largest conti­nent, Antarctica is one and a half the size of the United States. 
Nations including the United States. Britain, Australia. New Zealand, France and Argentina carry out experiments at bases dotted across the continent. They are regularly serviced by flights during the summer months but batten down the hatches and reduce staffing for the polar win­ter. 

has doubts 
"You can admire the way 
is it doesn't 
a guy's doing his job, without necessarily loving where he's coming from. " 
Gary Langer ABC News director of polling 
leave you with a reservoir of good will if times get tough." 
Nearly two-thirds had a favor­able impres­sion of Bush 
as a person. felt he has a vision for the future and thought he could be trusted in a crisis. 
The poll of 1.350 adults was taken Thursday through Sunday and has an error margin of plus or minus 2.5 percentage points. 

Pole station, is the only physician among 50 researchers working there. He recently suffered a gall bladder attack and has been diagnosed with the potentially life-threatening condition known as pancreatitis. 
An eight-seat, twin-engine plane fitted with skis for landing gear was scheduled to fly from the Rothera research station on the Antarctic peninsula to pick up the 59-year-old doctor. The plane arrived at Rothera last week after a flight from Punta Arenas, Chile. accompanied by a backup aircraft. 
Flights to the South Pole sta­tion are normally halted from late February until November because of the extreme winter cold and darkness. But the res­cuers worried that Shemenski's 

VIEWPOINT 
f""\!HE page 10 vr,SERVER Tuesday, April 24, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
l',C>, Box Q, Notre Dam<, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BllSINF.SS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AsST. MANACING EDITOR  
Kerry Smith  

Ntws EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Par McE!wee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter ScEN£ EDITOR, Amanda. Greco SAINT MAAV's EDITOR: Myra McGrilf PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: l'ahvd Chin WF.B ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryau GRAPHl<"--5 EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 
AoVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CH!EF..........:.............................631-4542 MANAGING ErnmRI A.ssr. ME....................631-454 I BUSINESS O!-'FICE ........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VtEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. vicwpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer .sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE....... , ...... ,, ......................................... 631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR\"s ............................................. 631-4324 
obscrver.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB .ADMINJSTRATORS................. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsrrwr.rul.«lu for daily· updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartooru, ri,views and breaking news from rhe Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online fuatuRs for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
co meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the studencs of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objccrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and dcpamnenr editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lenm is encouragrd. Letters ro the Editor musr be signed and must indudc contact information. 
Qur,riom rrgarding Obm-wr polidn ,ht,uld b, dirt:ct• ed to Editor in ChiefMilte Connolly. 

Lessons from childhood 
Arguably, one of the greatest books of all time is "The Little Prince" by Antoine de St. Exupery. Its lines are memorable and its lessons priceless. Not really a child's story, yet not real­ly a book for adults, its signifi­Brittany cance is monu­
Morehouse
mental because it 
is somehow sym­

bolic of both It's All About 
worlds -the Anthropology 
child's as well as 
the adult's. 

The penultimate message from The Little Prince stands at the top of a. long list of ideas graduating seniors should remember and cherish and live by always and forever. Like "The Little Prince," the members of the class of 2001 are situated peculiarly amidst two identities -the challeng­ing but enriching one of the younger generation and the responsible but rewarding one of the older genera­tion. As such, we are poised to form a bridge between the two. 
The rock immediately ahead reminds us that even though it may be just a stepping stone in our jour­ney to the top of the mountain, it is a most important one indeed. As we attempt to step forward, balancing precariously on this new stone while simultaneously looking forward to the horizon of our next role in life, we must not forget the lessons of the past. Lessons of our childhood gone by can help us remember what is essential. 
"l think I can, I think I can," the Little Blue Engine puffed as she pushed up the mountain. Her words carried more meaning than a mere literal translation. It was as if she was whispering to us so much more. Believe in yourself. Never give up. Never underestimate your greatness. 
And like the Little Blue Engine, the Berenstein Bears and their paperback companions showed us that, in the end, everything will be OK. Everything works out for the best. God only gives you what S/He knows you can handle. 
"If You Give a Mouse a Cookie" reminded us to never settle. Don't be complacent. When you find what you were searching for, don't stop look­ing. Keep asking for more. If you give a journalist a column, look out. If you give a woman a basketball, be pre­pared. If you give a Domer a degree, the world had better be ready. 
"Curious George" illustrates the power of inquisition. Stay attentive, engaged and curious. Ask questions, keep prodding, celebrate learning. Saying goodbye to the comfort zone of academics does not mean the quest for knowledge and experience has ended. 
As we look for answers. however, "Where's Waldo" shows us we must do so with a keen and precise sense of vision. Stay alert, be cautious and 
observant. We discover our imagination and 
creativity when we journey with Max in "Where the Wild Things Are." 
Allow your thoughts to venture to Lhe lofty. Dream, dream. dream. But always know that the hearts that love you are waiting for your return back at home. 
Shel Silverstein illustrates a most inspiring way to live in "The 
yourselves to others in any way you can. No matter where you are. what you are doing Pay attention to Ur. and with whom you Seuss when he tells have found compan­you of "Oh, the ionship, engage Places You'll Go." As yourself whole­you graduate. heartedly in ser­remember his vice. It is the gift exhortation on the of giving for last page, "You're which we should off to Great be truly grateful. Places! Today is 
Each night WC your day! Your escaped to the mountain is great green 
waiting. So ... room in 
get on your "Goodnight 
way!" Moon." "Sweet 
And like P.D. dreams," we 
Eastman's said to the 
diverse dogs in telephone and 
"Go, Dog, Go," the red bal­
we of different loon, com­
colors, places, memorating 
talents, hobbies every object 
and friendship around us. 
all contribute Here we cap­
with unquali­tured consis­
fied acceptance tency and. 
of each others' more impor­
differences to tantly, appreci­
fashion a busy, ation. Be thank­
but effectively ful for the little 
functioning, things and pray world. Go, for them each Domer, Go! night. Don't per­But in the end I mit the busy tor­still say that pre­nado of American mier of all the life to cloud your great lessons of vision. Take time childhood is that to look up at the which is learned in stars, at the moon, the friendship at life, and take it all between a little blond in. boy and a wise fox. 
The boy who cried The fox unveils to The wolf exemplifies the Little Prince the secret 
power of honesty. Keep your integrity. Present your opinions with an open mind. Tell the truth. Most importantly. be honest with yourself. 


Communicating and cooperation is key. We learned this in "Big Dog, Little Dog." Work with others as did "Ted and Fred." When together, prob­lem solving can be easy. 
Don't lose sight of friends who were always there, said the "Velveteen Rabbit." No matter how old the friendship routine may seem, good friends only increase in value with time. The tattered, shabby remains of problems and differences are bounti­ful -and beautiful. 
"I'll Love You Forever" instills us with comfort and magnitude of family. We know that, ultimately, it is those who raised us that will climb up any ladder to rescue, to nurture, to con­sole, to love us. 
And, like our family members. Marlo Thomas and friends in "Free to Be You and Mc" encourage us to 
of love: "What is essen­tial is invisible to the eye; it is only with the heart that one can see rightly." 

Brittany Morehouse would like to thank The Observer for continuing the tradition ofa student-run news­paper. She is gratefulfor the opportu­nity to have a student forum. Brittany's column today is dedicated to two special people: Dr. Rita Donley and especially her mother, who proves that it is possible to exemplify such essential life lessons every moment of one·s existence. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Obsen,er. 
DILBERT 
THE KEY TO SUCCESS IS TO R.El"\AIN OPTIMISTIC EVEN WHEN 'r'OU FAIL. 
WHAT'S THE POINT OF SUCCEEDING IF FAILING FEELS GOOD TOO? 
.; .5 
!! i• 
... 
..~ 
~ 
..•• ~ 
..., 
;; 
:a 
0 
o
.. 
e 

SCOTT ADAMS 
I'LL READ ANOTHER PAGE OF THAT 
MAGAZINE ARTlCLE 
TOMORROW AND 

GET BACI< TO YOU . 
C 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Youth is such a wonderful thing. What a crime to waste it on children. "' 
George Bernard Shaw writer 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Tuesday, April 24, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Neoliberalism 101' draws criticism 
Pointless civil disobedience 
This article is in response to Monday's column 'Whatever it is, it is going to feed and clothe and entitled "Neoliberalism 101." heal those who would otherwic;e go hungry, bare 
It is hard to know where to begin. First of all, and sick. Mr. Kreider's analysis of the violence undertaken Mr. Kreider writes that "corporations and the in Quebec City is altogether too one-sided. rich are not happy having to pay the costs for a Thousands of protesters vi:Jlently (not peacefully) social welfare state and environmental regula­tore down a man-made barricade, several threw tion." Heck no, and I wouldn't be either (I being 
Molotov Cocktails and a good deal more threw rocks and started fires and basi­cally acted in ways we usually only read about in the paper regarding Northern Ireland or the Middle East. Exactly how does Mr. Kreider expect the police to act? Perhaps the police should have linked arms and sung, "Feed the World." 
Mr. Kreider also men­tioned "the rich" and "cor­porations" with derision, pinning upon them all the evils of the modern world. ThLc; is all common fa.re in neo-Marxist ideology. He fails to note that, while these corporations are out sucking our blood, they are also providing jobs that would otherwise be unavailable to many in third-world countries. Laying aside the fact that smart businesses desire to make profits, no one condones a corporation that 
exploits illegally cheap labor. Neither does anyone condone a country whose laws fail to pro­tect il, citizens from such; perhaps there arc more targets at which to shoot darts than within Mr. Kreider's narrow sights. Corporations are also among the largest contributors to philan­thropic and charitable organizations, essentially helping to keep many running. Some will, no doubt. write that off as mere guilt assuagement. 
There is something out to get me. There is something out to get me and bring me down like a sack of gold-plated bricks. spinning me on a downward spi­ral into poop. I will tell you what this thing is, because it is most likely trying to bring you down as well. 
It is my credit card. 
You know, last year, I had to write a fairy­tale for one of my classes, and I wrote it about a "princess" (that would be me) and an "evil being" (that would be my credit card). At the time it was utter and complete fiction, but much like school election scandals of last year somewhat foreshadowed the Presidential election of this year, I guess I should have known better. Llke many, I should have known better than to trust a flimsy piece of plas­tic. 
Like many, I have absolutely no idea how I really got my own credit card. My parents had been warding off the tele­marketers from me for years until one day I made the mistake of 1. answering the phone, and 2. not telling them no. I was dead, and kept the smooth talker on the line for more than 2.5 seconds. Within six minutes I had my own person­al Visa coming to me in two to three weeks but here wa:s my number now in neither rich nor a corporation). Ifhe desires a -----"social welfare state," then he is living in 


the wrong country. Ifhe desires that we change into a "social welfare state," then I suggest he first read Friedrich Hayek and get back to me. Everyone knows that 
removing economic freedom necessarily entails removing political freedom. Perhaps 
that is a worthwhile sacrifice in his eyes -but I might take him more seriously if he had extensive first-hand knowledge of this trade-off. 
Further, the "rich" might be a little happier about paying costs if they weren't 
shouldering 63 percent of the tax burden -which the top 
10 percent are, by the way. Seems a bit unfair, doesn't it? Not to neo-Marxists who believe 
that people with money ought to be penalized for the mere fact of having so much of it. They ought to be ashamed. Don't they know that oft-mis­quoted verse, "Money is the root of all evil?" 
Mr. Kreider's article should have been titled, 
"Guilt 101." Or maybe, "The Sanctioning of 
Violent and.Pointless Civil Disobedience." After 
all, it is fun to break stuff. 
Christine Niles Notre Dame Law School April 23, 200 I 

Embracing free trade 
This letter is in repsonse to a column entitled "Neoliberalism 101" from Monday's issue of The Observer. 
Like the vast majority of protesters in Quebec City. Aaron Kreider's heart is in the right place, but his intellectual arguments about free trade are narrow, illogical and misinformed. Contrary to Kreider's assertions, the Free Trade Area of the Americas does not preclude substantial investment in human capital. 
Furthermore, within a neoliberal political-economic framework, governments can successfully address each instance of injustice Kreider mentions. From a material welfare, human development and democracy~expansionist perspective, free trade, even applied haphazardly, overwhelmingly benefits society. 
During the past 30 years countries such as South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Chile, the Czech Republic and Poland have witnessed substantial elevations in living standards while successfully lower­ing barriers to trade and political and bureaucratic transparency. Perhaps as importantly, despite what Kreider suggests, gains in public health, education and other measures of human develop­ment in such countries have been as substantial as increases in their per capita GDP. In fact, the UN Development Report suggests that developing countries that have most embraced neoliberalism have the highest overall gains in well-being. 
The creation of material wealth has proved detrimental to the environment. While Kreider does not touch on this, further expan­sion of free trade will inevitably hasten negative environmental impact. Cuba is one of the few countries that, while rejecting neoliberalism, have still effectively increased levels of human devel­opment. Per capita, Cubans do relatively little harm to the environ­ment. However, most world citizens would be unwilling to give up present and future material well-being for a political and economic system such as Cuba's. 
Countries that have consistently embraced free trade and neolib­eralism historically have benefited, both economically and political­ly. As with any change, such policies will inevitably produce win­ners and losers. However, ensuring that none are left behind is completely within the realm of possibility of free trade and neolib­eralism. Perhaps within this more reasonable framework Kreider could do more good advocating for, "global justice and investment in people." 
Brian Passikoff 
Graduate Student April 23. 2001 

Somebody is out to get you 
case I wanted to activate it right away ­you know, do a little catalogue shopping or something. · Super. 
I remember telling my mother in a hazy daze that I think I had just gotten a credit card, something I had tried to avoid for as long as possible. I figured that if I could spend a year abroad, and one solid month of that year traveling in countries where I didn't even know the obscene words, without a credit card, I could make it longer. Maybe all through col­lege. Apparently not. I got sucked in. 
My mother looked at me and said sim­ply, "Hey. it's not my problem." (She's very supportive, my mother.) That was the thing-I knew if I got a credit card, it was my own personal responsibility. The parental units would have no part of it. Hence, it was my own personal responsibility to max out my card. Hence, it is my own personal responsibility to not tell my parents, because they would flip. 
I was really good for a long time. I'm serious. Don't look down your nose at me, because I know many of you out there who probably have done the same thing. I got the card, and I used it only once in awhile, but kept it under strict "for emergency use only" lock and key. For that matter, I should have been keep­ing it in the trunk of my car with my jumper cables or something. 
After awhile, though, my addiction to gym shoes became an emergency, and now I can run safely and comfortably until the year 2056. And after awhile, the 10 percent student discount at Borders became and emergency too, even though I don't have time to read the books I've bought because I have 14 other books to read for class, but don't worry because I put those on my credit card too. 
too confused to realize that they've just promised their firstborn to MBNA or Citibank. It is a conspiracy that they are trying to bring us down, desperately try­ing to ruin our credit history before we 
It is all my own fault, and I real­can even get up. Before we can get ize this. I am just hoping that off-campus, for God's sake. someone will learn from this This sad display of power and not do the same thing I does not seem to concern did. Because really, it does those in the behind the throw you on a down­scenes aspect of this seem­ward spiral if you are ingly lucrative credit busi­not careful. I was read­ness, however. Why ing (no, not in a book should _it? For every that I bought from month you don't pay off Borders) that the in full, they get to slather average American on another 17 percent family has $7,000 interest fee! Well, guess worth of credit card what, kids? I am really debt. Thankfully, that not that interested in is a hell of a lot more you or your fees. I'm than I have, so I guess, sure there is someone in this case, it is OK to out there who is, but feel call me below average. the pain when I finally 
Don't get me wrong, pay this puppy off, taking the idea of buy now, pay charge of my charge card. I later is one of the best have even entertained the invented. The matter of not prospect of cutting the plastic having the pay later part is in two, but seriously, what if what gets us into trouble. I'm there is an emergency? convinced that the people 
behind these ma6ter plans of MasterCard, these Vikings of Visa and all the rest, are like some great and power­ful Oz, preying on college kids, promising them low interest rates, no annual fee, blah de blah de blah. Their lackey tele­marketers waiting, hoping that the young man or woman on the other end will be 
I 
'1' 

Molly Strzelecki is a senior writing major. She can be e-mailed at strz7359@saintmarys.edu. lier column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
... • o1. ._ .._"' ~!to•~• "-,. ~ t-~,.-,..~• .~ : ... a"I. i .,·.•.. •II ,···..,_•.'l t-14"•~~~, _,·.., ,:~: f 
i.' 

--J 

cctnec 
page 12 Tuesday, April 24, 2001 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Acoustic Lost Songs offers comforting melancholy 
By LISA BRUNO 
Scime Music Critic 
David Gray is a musical force to be reckoned with. This is very apparent on his second U.S. release, Lost Songs 95­
98. Gray has already reached understandably great acclaim in his native United Kingdom, yet no country admires him quite like Ireland, who first embraced Gray in 1993 and hasn't let go since. 
Finally, the United States is being given a glimpse of Gray, and it looks as though there is plenty to see. Lost Songs affords U.S. audiences a chance to play catch up, and it reveals that they have missed a great deal. 


This second U.S. release is different from Gray's first, White Ladder. Lost Songs is a stripped-down acoustic album that features previously unreleased songs from 1995-98. At first listen, this disc may seem too melan­choly for fans of Gray's most recent US hit, "Babylon." However, Gray achieves the seemingly impossible task of creating a com­forting melancholy on Lost Songs. 
It is melancholy because this 
album takes a journey through 
Gray's life from 1995-98, a 
period marred by difficulties 
for him. During this time, his 
parents divorced, which seemed to leave 
Gray feeling naive about matters of the 
heart. Also during this time he was shuffled 
through two record labels which left unful­
filled his desire to make music. This personal 
strife is memorialized on these tracks. 
Though sad, it lends some comfort, found in 
the flicker of hope offered by instrumental 
backdrops in tracks like, "Flame Turns 
Blue." This flicker is especially felt in "A 
Clean Pair of Eyes," which ends the CD with 
a hope for a new beginning and confidence 
that it can be attained: "And before the 
might/ of all that's true/ I'll raise my head/ 
and dream anew with a clean pair of eyes." 
Lost Songs is like a "best of' album, in that 
the listener gets the best of Gray: his voice, 
his guitar and his lyrics. The album allows 
the listener to hear Gray's amazing voice, at 
time slicing through songs -as heard in "As 
I'm Leaving" -and at other times soothingly 
sliding across the words, as in "Hold On." 

Some might liken Gray's voice to the much revered dia­mond: championed for. its clear purity, but also for its abrasive quality. Uke a diamond, his voice refracts emo­tion, thought, and energy. 
Gray is an amazing lyricist who holds nothing back, offering up his life for his listeners. This unabashed open­ness appears on every track of Lost Songs. "As I'm Leaving" reveals this openness to a backdrop of both Gray's guitar and piano. The rawness of his voice is best heard here, "To the soul of everything/ throw my heart ouV on the stones/ and I'm almost gone." "Falling Down the Mountainside" also accents Gray's voice with the back­drop of a piano and a slightly deeper bass underpinning. Amidst this blend lie the carefully crafted lyrics of Gray; "Pin your hearV on your sleeve/ spouting all that make­believe/ from your lips/ it seemed it might come true/ falling down the mountainside with you." 
Lost Songs is an open journey through Gray's life from 1995-98. It is an excellent album from the first to the last track, highlighting both Gray's musical and lyrical talents. Gray is the kind of artist who was meant to make music. It's as simple as that. 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Tupac's poetic wisdom shines in End of Time 
By I.AURA ROMPF  Time," Tupac uses the chorus from an '80s hit. "Broken  ly had his way with women. The lyrics of  
Scene Music Critic  Wings" by Mr. Mister. Tupac's  "Thug N U Thug N  
lyrics adapt the song to his  Me"  are playful and  
Tupac's lyrics have always  own life and make the song  flirty like "Owwwh  
been  the  backbone  of  his  seem like  a  Tupac original.  I'm excited/ Cuz it's  
albums and his latest release,  "Until the End of Time'' actual­ a  party in my bed­ 
Until the End of Time, is  no  ly  shows  up  twice  on  the  room, you're invit­ 
different. Whether the lyrics  album, as the second disc con­ ed." With K-Ci and  
are  reinventing an  old hit or  tains the RP remix. The song  Jo Jo singing along­ 
creating a  brand  new song,  has an  overall dark feeling  as  side Tupac, the song  
they  demonstrate  Tupac's  Tupac says, "Perhaps I was  is strong.  
intelligence and  create  an  addicted  to  tha dark sid'e/  In the song, "When  
strong album overall.  Somewhere inside my child­ -Thugs Cry," Tupac  
Since  his death in  1996,  hood I missed my heart die ...  laments about the  
Tupac  has  released  seven  My attitude got  me  walkin'  thug  lifestyle  to  
albums, and because several  solo/ Ride out alone in my low­ which he  became  
songs  remain  unreleased,  low/ Watchin' tha whole world  accustomed. He says,  
don't expect the albums to stop  move in slow mo/ For quite  "Still homie keep it  
anytime soon.  However, while  times and steer fearless to tha  real.  how  does  it  
some of Puff Daddy's remixes  ocean."  feel?/ to loose your  
of old hits seem  to fill albums  Tupac's  player  attitude  life  over somethin'  
with easy radio-hit singles,  shines through in his song  you did as a kid/ you  
Tupac's remakes  are  more  "Thug N U Thug N Me," which  all alone no commu­ 
genuine.  also has two different versions,  nication, back on the  
In the first single off the  one on each disc. As a self-pro­ phone/  don't  get  
album.  "Until  the  End  of  claimed player, Tupac obvious- along with you pops  
and  plus,  your  
moms is Where did  gone/ we go  newscom.com In the seventh new album since his murder, Tupac Shakur again amazes fans  
wrong?"  The  with poignant lyrics and an innovative style yet unmatched in today's rap.  
thoughtful  lyrics  
show Tupac's talent as a poet and rapper. "When Thugs Cry" is  an  on Me." In another deep song on the album, "F***** with the wrong  from real drug dealers." Overall, the album's lyrics provide a strength that is noti­ 
emotional  song,  but  the  N****," Tupac explains how his  cably lacking in several cur­ 
album carefully mixes fun party hits alongside the deep tracks. "N**** Nature," fea­turing little Mo. has an upbeat tempo with light­hearted lyrics. The song is  thug lifestyle is a direct result of his upbringing. He says, "God forgive me for my lifestyle/ A negative figure/ But why they f**king with the wrong n***"'? ... I was raised  rent rappers. Tupac's talent as a poet is unmatched. On one hand, it is sad that someone with such intelligence could not escape the lifestyle that surrounded him. However. it  

 similar to "It's All About You" from Tupac's album "All Eyez  by thugs/ Schooled by killers/ Learned my mathematic skills  was that very lifestyle that inspired Tupac's poetry.  



c<2nec 
Tuesday, April 24, 2001 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Haiku d'Etat fills void of mainstream hip-hop 
By TOM OGORZALEK 
Scene Music Critic 
When Motley Crue broke up, it became blatantly clear that a vacuum had been created in contemporary music. No one was there to take up the lyrical baton and sprint with it; the power of crap-rock was just too strong. What resulted was a growth of the movements of alienation: grunge and gangsta. 
Both had interesting and important social messages to convey, and both were authentic for awhile. Eventually, however, Kurt Cobain died and Dr. Dre began pro­ducing radio-friendly but artistically vacu­ous products. The creativity so important to '80s glam rock had disappeared from the mainstream. 
Ha! 
But seriously, the stream of hip-hop lit­eracy has long been flowing underground. From the party beats and half-muted political engagement of the Sugar Hill Gang through the angry militancy of Public Enemy and the creation of artistic persona in the Wu Tang Clan, verbal intel­ligence was well-preserved. 
The power of innovative and improvisa­tional battle rhymes was the draw for this burgeoning hip-hop scene that sprung from underground clubs and small record labels. lJe La Soul and A Tribe Called Quest were the lyrical vanguards and pro­totypes of the East Coast style, and that tradition has continued to flourish today. 
On the West Coast, the underground scene is driven much by the San Francisco Freestyle Fellowship. 
Aceyalone is the propelling force behind the self-titled release Haiku d'Etat from a group comprised of Acey, Abstract Rude, and Mikah 9. It is not so much lyricism that drives this album but the sounds behind the words. While the group's bat­tles are impressive -at one point they find five rhymes for "telescopic" -it is the jazzy feel that sets the entire effort apart from mainstream raps. 
Nearly every track pays homage to the art that musically paved the way for the central property of battle-rhyming: impro­visation. Saxophones and trumpets come in and out of the soundtrack, making more than mere cameos. Their contribu­tion is central to the feeling of the music. 
The jazz flow begins on the title track and sustains itself throughout, even when blending with a distinctive reggae tinge ­with accom­panying affected Caribbean accents-on 
L o s 
Dangerous." 

Haiku's voices them­s e Ives become instruments, both melodi­ous and per­cussive. It is clear that Haiku is hav­ing fun with its art. but its members are nonetheless able to address the important issues cen­tral to much of hip-hop: time, drugs, alien­ation, poverty, sex and relationships and the commercialization of the music itself. 
The lyricism is there: this is an album full of the cerebral rhymes usually found out East, rather than the sex, money, guns and drugs associated with Dre's southern empire. 
Most important, Haiku gets better with each successive listen. New observations rise to the surface, themes make them­selves evident and the accompaniment is a vital part of this sometimes subtle suc­cess. 

Like a sixteenth century amnesiac thes­pian improvising his way through a solilo­quy in perfect iambs, this is spontaneous hip-hop at its finest. Haiku d'Etat is repre­sentative of a vibrant and vivacious underground scene that addresses art and society. The hedonists of MTV would struggle to keep up. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Live In New York showcases best of 'The Boss' 

By TIM COLLINS Scene Music Critic 
As Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band's reunion tour came to an end last July, there was only one ques­tion on fans' minds: was the band sitting at the starting gate or had they just crossed the finish line? 
With the release of Live in New York City, their first live album in 15 years, the band gives fans an amazing testament to the fact that they are sitting at the start of a great new period of their career. Springsteen cannot deny that he is 51, but he does show that he is still "The Boss" and ringleader of the best live act in the business. 
This reunion tour was a success. both economically and critically, because it avoided the nostalgia that most reunion tours run into. The band came out ½ith a sense of purpose every night and played songs revolving around the themes of friendship and loyalty, instead of simply plowing through a greatest hits concert night after night. Songs such as "Glory Days" ,or "Dancing in the Dark" were rarely even played, while relatively obscure tracks such as "The Ties That Bind" and "Mansion on the Hill" regularly found themselves on the set list. 
The album covers Springsteen's entire career, repre­senting eight of his 11 studio albums, and it opens with a powerful one-two-three punch as the band tears through intense performances of "My Love Will Not Let You Down,'' "Prove It All Night" and "Two Hearts." 
The six-minute "Prove It All Night" lets the crowd know that Springsteen can still rock like he did when he was 25. Springsteen and Steven Van Zandt exchange 
Live in New York 
Bruce Springsteen and the EStreet Band 
Columbia Records 
Rating 



......,. 
inspired yells halfway through and the dark lyrics so prominent on 1978's Darkness on the Edge of Town album still ring true as Springsteen sings, "If dreams came true, well wouldn't that be nice? But this ain't no dream we're living through tonight. You want it, you take it, you pay the price to prove it all night." 
"Two Hearts" comes alive as never before as Springsteen and Van Zandt again share one microphone to tell us one of the most simple messages in rock and roll: "Two hearts are better than one, two hearts, girl. get the job done." 
Despite the great hard-rocking numbers, this album's main aim is to tell the listener that Springsteen is not 25 anyrpore, and he knows it. The trick is that fans still believe he 
-
is. Though he may be half a century old, the magic of Bruce Springsteen's The reworked version of "Atlantic latest live album is that his fans would never know it. 

City" bursts with more life than ever, 
and is still an example of the best 
lyrics Springsteen has written. "Jungleland" -an amaz­
ing track from Born to Run -is driven by the great 
piano intro o( Roy Bittan and Clarence Clemons' unfor­
gettable saxophone solo. Springsteen whispers the final 
verse before ending with the most memorable wail in 
rock history. "Born to Run" has lost the sense of urgency that made 
it work so well in 1975. Something seems different as Springsteen tells the audience: "We've got to get out while we're young. because tramps like us, baby we were born to run." But the song's power and emotion is still felt 25 years after being written. "Tenth-Avenue Freezeout" is 16 minutes long and transforms Springsteen into a rock and roll preacher. An extended ver­sion of "Badlands" is still one of the best live songs around, while "Out in the Street" is more fun than ever. "Lost in the Flood" could not· get off the ground on Greetings From Asbury Park, N.J. but in a new arrangement it becomes one of the stronger songs on the album. The two real highlights are the new songs 
from the tour -"Land of Hope and Dreams" and "American Skin (41 Shots)." Both show Springsteen still has some of his best music ahead of him. 
"Land of Hope and Dreams" is driven by drummer Max Weinberg and features some of Springsteen's most optimistic lyrics: "Big wheels rollin' through fields where ­sunlight streams, meet me in a land of hope and dreams." 
"American Skin" is the real high point. Inspired by the killing of Amadou Diallo by four New York City police officers when they mistook his wallet for a gun, the song is one of the best protest songs ever written. The song slowly builds energy towards a powerful conclusion and stands as a beautiful tribute to victims who "can get killed just for living in your American skin." 
The E Street Band had an interesting decade away from Springsteen: Max Weinberg became the band­leader on Conan O'Brien and Steven Van Zandt stars on "The Sopranos." 
But this is where they belong: on stage creating some of the best music around with one of the best voices of his generation. Live in New York City is not about look­ing back on a career that has already gotten the band into the Rock and Roll Hall of Pame. lt is about the future -how friendship can save and bring redemption. 
... 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
been the catalyst for this season," Mainieri said. "Led by Heilman and 
• Tamayo, those two guys have been absolutely outstanding the entire year -dominating." Ironically, a year ago few would have thought either Tamayo or Heilman would be on the mound for the Irish. Tamayo was still recovering from elbow surgery that robbed him of his sophomore season, while Heilman, one of the nation's top pitchers. was expected to leave Notre Dame and sign professionally. Instead, Tamayo recovered in time to pitch well in the NCAA regional last season, while Heilman turned down guaranteed money from the Minnesota Twins to return for his senior season at Notre Dame. "One of the reasons I came back here was to come out and try to-help my team," Heilman said. 'Tm really happy with the way things are going." Another credit to Notre Dame's suc­cess is a sparkling defense that has committed just 59 errors in 41 games. "We have a great defensive team," said Irish centerfielder Steve Stanley. "I think our infield has been incredible this year. Paul O'Toole's a great catch­er. We have a talented outfield as well." Stanley admitted that when he came to Notre Dame he never expected to play for a team this good. When he saw the ranking flash across his com­puter screen this morning, Stanley, who leads the Irish with 22 stolen bases, stopped dead in his tracks. "I wanted to stand up and scream in front of everybody, but I couldn't do it," Stanley said. "I was really excited for everybody. I never had any expec­tation of coming here and being No. 1 in the country." In the end, however, this team is focused on the goal they stated at the beginning of the season -reaching the College World Series for the first time since the 1950s. "It's a great honor to be the best team in the nation right now." Heilman said. "It means a lot right now, but the biggest ranking is at the end of the season, and we'd like to be No. 1 at the end of the season." 
The Irish host Bowling Green at 6 

p.m. tonight at Eck Stadium. The theme. for tonight's game is "Turn back the clock night" and Irish players will be wearing old style uniforms. In addition, fans will receive caps and pennants and concessions will be reduced to 75 cents. 
BASEBALL 

Bowling Green poses threat to No. I ranking 

ByJEFF BALTRUZAK 
Assistant Sports Ediror 

-The Irish will have little time to savor the flavor of being No. 1 as a hard-hit­ting Bowling Green squad rolls into Frank Eck Stadium tonight. Bowling Green sports a 28-10 record and poses more of a challenge than the Irish nor­mally face in a mid-week contest. 
The Falcons swing the bat with the best in the country, hitting .359 as a team and slugging 74 homeruns to the Irish's 23. The Irish pitchers must be on the lookout for first baseman Kelly Hunt and infielder Corey Loomis, both of whom have double-digit home run totals combined with averages over .360. 
The Irish will send Ogilvie to the mound to battle the Falcons. Ogilvie has been very effective as mid-week starter for the Irish all year, starting four games while posting a team leading 0.72 ERA. 
Sophomore righthander Peter Ogilvie has yet to face a team with as much offensive firepower as the Falcons, but the righthander will stick to his usual pitching formula. 
'Tm going to-try to keep the ball down, throw strikes and stay ahead of hitters, the usual," said Ogilvie. 
Bowling Green will be hard-pressed to hit for any power against Ogilvie, who hasn't given up a gopher ball this season and has only allowed five extra base hits in 25 innings. 
Should the game turn into an offensive struule, the Irish will be well-armed, having shaken off the ill effects of an early season hitting slump. 
Steve Stanley, Steve Sollmann, and Brian Stavisky have stepped up their production, all hitting over .380. But 
nobody has climbed out of a slump for the Irish like Alec Porzel. The senior shortstop has been on a tear, and now sits at third on the squad in HBls and has raised his average almost 80 points in the last 15 games. 
"Alec's one of the biggest leaders on the team," said Sollrnann. "It means a lot to have him playing well N a lot of play­ers count on him." But Sollmann insists the Irish still have steps to take to maxi­mize their, offensive production. 
"Our offense has improved, but there's lots of room for improvement. We've been hitting too many flyballs and things like that," he said. 
As with any team that hasn't lost in 15 games, the Irish are flying high. With Bowling Green. the Irish will simply look to a common formula. 
Said Sollrnann: "Play hard every inning." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nc:xt-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
1428 Marigold Way Northshore An adorable 1 .5 bdrm_ House w/ 3 bdrm duplex RETIRED ND STAFFER & LADIES: Take a study break and Condo garage by St. PatrickOspark. 702-501/503 Eddy St. SPOUSE WISH TO RENT APT. meet guys, make fun of them, orFOR SALE Close to ND. 1 Bdrm, 1 bath, LR, 436-1594_ Appliances, W/D FOR SUMMER. RELIABLE, NON­both with the new ThatGuyl Game. 
DR & Kitchen include. All appl. 1 1 mile from campus SMOKERS, NO PETS, HAVE FAM­As seen in In Style, Glamour & Car For Sale!I car garage & large storage closet. Rent for fall semester 273-8332 or 250-7080 ILY IN AREA 135 LAKEVIEW DR. Entertainment Weekly_ Endless 1995 Ford Aspire Condo lees inc. ext maintenance, 4 bedrooms, 2 full baths, MULBERRY FL Fun! $9.99 at · $2,000 perfect condition! pool, tennis, club house, cable, gas washer&dryer, basement w/ hot Studio apartment in quiet neighbor­(863) 425-4404 OR CALL OUR www.thatguygame.com Call Heather@ 243-0125 heat, water, sewer, trash, water tub, new fumance, security system. hood near Notre Dame. DAUGHTER LOCALLY AT 256· 
heater & water softener. Call 277-0636 Unfurnished, cable, patio, $330/mo. 2335 Graduating Seniors: Looking to sell C98 Honda Prelude 2 dr sports $72,500 Plus electric. Available June. your apartment furniture (beds, coupe. Green/ivory. 42k miles. Call Doris 255-7862 Newly remOdeled 5 bedroom house Telephone 616-687-8924 Not sure what to do with those old desks, couches, etc?) ND juniors Excellent condition. One owner. available lo rent for tall semester. 2 dorm room items? Will buy refriger· looking to buy. Call Nick 4-4716 if New tires. Loaded. Sunroof. ABS. full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec ators. computers, TVs, stereos, etc. interested. Spoiler. Great car. Call 1-4368 FOR RENT room, security system Call now to WANTED Call Brian weekdays or 277-4605 afier 5 pm see 277-0636 at4-1944 Hi there Keith! Have a great day! Parked in Stepan Center lot. EXECUTIVE SUITE One bedroom Hoping to house sit or rent your 
furnished executive suite Ncable & 1 br sublet 5/15-8/15, Downers home, furnished/unfurnished, until ROOMMATE WANTED shout out to room 303 alumni hall! Oakhill Gondo -4 bdr/3 balh local phone, housekeeping included Grove, IL, w/d, dw, ale, great com­summer 2002. Married couple, For DC 2001-2002 Dillon senior 1/2 mile from campus @ $60/night (football/graduation plex, room for 2 people, early 40s , professional + student, going to school in DC next year is Katie Metzi • i am so looking for­fireplace. deck, pool access ' weekend rates higher). (219) 271-$890/mo+util Rachel 312-498-6579 no kids Call 616.6975307 or looking for a cool roomate to share ward to our lunch date • yay $99,000/best offer 6808 or e-mail: www belleterre­270.659.0096 apartment callTim@ 612-802-0285 suite@aol.com. ND Alum CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR CALL 4·0956 only three one and a half more 
owned/managed. Near ND. MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN­Summer daytime sitter for three weeks of classes! WOODBRIDGE CONDO COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE girls ages 12 to 5. 273-3010 Babysitter, pref. With own trans­18199 Stoneridge -Apt F Looking to share/sublet summer TOEL portation, for two children, 2&6 yrs Two more episodes of survivor left ­1239 sq. ft. $84,300, 3 bedrooms, 1 apartment. Will be performing 1 or 2 BEDROOMS Graduating seniors: in our home. how trhilling -who's gonna make it 1/2 baths, dining room, living room. internship in South Bend May 13 OWN BATHROOM Looking to sell your apartment furni­Flexible hrs. and who's gonna lose? kitchen. Condo fee $165 per month. through August 18. Non-smoker. $780/mo. ture (beds, desks, couches, etc)? 277-1037 The Hickey Group-Karen castelluc­(419) 352-4136 1-312-443-6062 JAIME ND juniors looking to buy. Call Nick my vote is for colby because he is cio (timgoodenow@yahoo.com) at 4-4716 if interested. hot 674-1682 
3-6 BDRM HOMES PERSONAL 
Oak Hill Condo for rent. 2 bdrm, 2 $1 BO per person Furn_ Summer/Fall Retired ND staffer & spouse wish to Who will win 11 this year? Europe $199 one way. bath. Available June 1. 1·765-362· 272-6306 apt. for summer. Reliable, non­Indiana catholic couple with huge Mexico/Carribbean or Central 1040. Ask for John smokers, no pets, have family in hearts wishing to adopt a child. We What will they do next? America $250round trip plus tax. ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND area. 135 Lakeview dr, Mulberry Fl. can provide your baby with lots of Other world wide destinations lake living bear Bremen Wild Irish Rose Inn 33860 (863) 425-4404 or call our love and a secure, stable life. 0-0-0-0-0 cheerios! cheap ti you can beat these prices most pets okay 3mi north of campus daughter locally at 256-2335. Reasonable expenses will be paid. start your own airline_ new 3 bedroom · •brklst buffet ea AM For more Info, this is the last one Book tickets on line air, garage, disposal, dishwaher · 'clean, comfortable & affordable Need one ticket to graduation. Price please call Rebecca re Larry and www.airtech.com or $950/month page-219-935•7845 or · (2190 2n-4303 or negotiable_ Cathy: toll free (877)AlRTECH call 546-4430 www.wildirishrose_com Call4-3760 toll-free 1-866-30-ADOPT; __ • _ • _ ~~ •j fJ~e_d y~u,_t~is_ i~ t~e_l8:s~ o~e 
Tuesday, April 24, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Camby's teammates show support 
Associated Press 
PURCHASE, N.Y. 

As the hostage standoff at Marcus Camby's mother's house was in its final moments, his teammates huddled in their street clothes near the 3-point line at the New York Knick:.' practice facility and discussed what little they knew. 
"Right now, basketball is not a high priority. Everybody's mind is strictly on Marcus," Glen Rice said Monday. 
The standoff ended after near­ly eight hours with a knife­wielding suspect in custody. One of Camby's sisters sustained minor injuries. 
The suspect, Troy Crooms, was charged with burglary. first-degree sexual assault, kid­napping, assault, unlawful restraint and possession of a weapon. Police said he demand­ed to speak with Camby, who came to the driveway but did not go inside. About three hours later, the standoff ended peace­
fully. . Most members of the Knicks learned of the standoff as they arrived at the practice facility at midmorning. Coach Jeff Van 
Gundy informed them of the sit­uation and dismissed the team for the day. 
"It really caught us off-guard," said Latrcll Sprewell, one of Camby's best friends on the team. "I don't think a lot of guys knew when they got here." 

Police who first responded to Camby's mother's home at 3:30 
a.m. found a man holding a knife to Camby's 21-year-old sis­ter's throat. Camby arrived shortly before 8 a.m. and approached the home to show the suspect he was there. He did not enter the house and did not speak to the suspect. 
The Knicks sent general man­ager Scott Layden to the scene. 
"It's almost Jike: 'Is this real? Js this happening?"' Sprewell said. "I can only imagine. I have a sister. and I can only imagine what Marcus is going through." 
BOXING 
Devellerez expected to recover 
Associated Press 
CHRISTCHURCH 

A female boxer is expected to make a full recovery from a serious head injury that required surgery. 
Australia's Patricia Devellerez was knocked to her knees dur­ing the fight Sunday against Agnes Tuitama in Christchurch, New Zealand. She sustained a delayed concussion and under­went surgery Sunday. 
The fight was stopped imme­diately and Devellerez was taken to a hospital, where she was expected to remain for a week, New Zealand Boxing Council chairman Keith Walker said. 
Andrew Gin, the official doc­tor at the fight. said Devellerez should make a full recovery and return to Australia within two weeks. 
"I am a relieved man," Rocco Devellerez. Patricia's husband and trainer, said Tuesday at Christchurch Hospital. "The signs she's showing means she's sure to make a full and com­plete recovery.n 

The bout was held less than two weeks after Health Minister Michael Wooldridge renewed calls for a boxing ban after the death of Ahmad Popal in a bout in Melbourne. 
"Boxing is a sport like any other sport -there is a risk and boxing is no exception," Devellerez told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio. 
CLUB SPORTS 

Men's rowing earns victories at Regatta 
Special to The Observer 
Oakridge. Tenn. was the venue for the Southern Intercollegiate Rowing Association Regatta where the Men's Rowing chm di<;tingui<;hed itself in several events. Highlighting the weekend was the novice eight, capturing gold in open water over six other finalists. The crew inclulded Alex Schaefer, Frank Fassano, Kevin Rooney, Dan Hert, Mike Sanchez, Brian Arena, Brian Gibson and Reagan Sigfried. In other action, the novice heavy­weight eight rowed their way into the grand finals, finishing fourth in a six team final, while the varsity four placed second in the Cfinal, won by Virginia. The Irish heavyweight eight took first in I.he Petite Final. Next week­end will find the Irish competing in the Big East championships at Georgetown. 
Cycling 
Thirty-five mile-per-hour crosswinds with gusts up to 60 miles per hour forced riders to lean into the wind the entire race at the regional time-trials this weekend at U. Illinois. Grant Kleiber and Mike Denney finished 21st and 27th respec­tively in a field of 107 of the Midwest's best riders. This cir­cuit race championship con­cludes the season for the Irish, who will return to action in the fall with the mountain race sea­son. 

Ultimate 
Both men and women of the Ultimate Club competed this weekend at Sectionals at Purdue. The men fared the best, placing third. The Irish opened with wins over Rose­Hulman, 13-2, Northwestern, 13-3, and Indiana 13-2 in pool play. In the quarters, the Irish bested Northern Illinois, 13-4, before fallling to Illinois, 15-13, in the semis. A 13-6 victory over Ball State for third place secured the Irish a sixth or seventh soed for next weekend's Regionals. The women were unable to get untracked as they dropped games to Illinois, 8-5, Chicago, 10-9, Northwestern, 8-4, Indiana, 10-7, and Purdue 10-7. This will seed the Irish at the bottom of the women's draw for next weekend's regional<;. 
Women's Water Polo 
The Grove City College Invitational served as a tune-up for the Irish this weekend, as they fine tune their play for the upcoming Nationals. The Irish opened with a win over Gannon, 8-6, before stumbling against Slippery Rock, 14-12 in over­time, despite the heroics of Sarah Todnem. The team then defeated host Grove City, 9-5 and Penn State Behrend, 15-2. Lauren Kuzniar led the Irish in scoring for the weekend, with Liz Parolin, Meg Daday . and Brigete Alge close behind. Next up will be the national champi­onships in two weeks. 
Notre Dame's Circle K Club would like to say: 

2000-2001! 

..... and a special thank you to last year's board and our silver, 
Silver Members 
Emily Lorenz 

gold and platinum members: 
GoldMembers
Kyle Ledbetter Eric Moffit Dave Vosburg Juliann Urbaniak Katie Murphy Bill Bonner 
Kate Foster 

Mike Werner Matt Bauers Elaine Ellis 
Lynette Paczkowski 

Meghan Colgan Erin English Jim Gaffey Meredith Holt 
Gina Montenaro

Kevin Hagerty Joe Golden Annie Moranski Tim Peplinski
Keith Rauenbuehler 

Staci Pangle Suzanne Lyons Mitch Rees Nate DeNicola
Danielle Ledesma 

Veronica Wensman John Palma Stephanie Yalm Matt Lutz 
Greg Schober 

Donna Gauvin Mike Rinehart Valerie Baur Laura Ramirez 
Rob Bankey

Kathryn Wolohan Jenny Wilding Julie Hansen Kelly Romanczuk 
Matt Banach 

Carolyn Blessing Megan Markey Anne McCarley Sarah Dreznes 
Meredith Curley 

Erin Dugan Susan Thoma Maureen Ripsom Olivia Laible 
Brian Simolon

Kara Lindstedt Dennis Barrett Sarah Smith Kristen Nonbello 
Luke Stepusin 
Julianne Plazas Joseph Dwyer 
Tony Accetta 
Molly Posedel Melissa Ferrello 
Tricia Kelly 

Pete Schupp Michael Vitlip Platinum Members
2000-2001 Board Alexandra Torres
Andrew Thagard Lauren Willoughby 

Matt Parsons Sara Elberts
Kristin Cordova Kelly Novak President-Nate DeNicola 
Katie Van Tiem Sarah Hoffman 
Lydia Doyle Fernanda Payan Vice President ofMembership-Bo Rottenbom 
Anne Bowman Andy Nelson 
Amy Eischen Aileen Barry Vice President ofService-Kate Foster 
Mike Hewett Bo Rottenbom
Jennifer Jones Leigh Bothe Secretary-Lynette Paczkowski 
Erin Doyle Beth Pettersen
Bob Miske Brent Griffith Trea<mrer-Bill Boyd 
Anne Traynor Michelle Harless 
Kristi Yerg Kristy Robinson Electronic Publicist-Rob Bankey 
Carol McCarthy Tara Pio
Jacki Adesso Aimee Sz.ewka Public Relations Officer-Chris Dunstan Laurie Hohberger Silvia Lohmann Past President-J Doyle Lisa Lachky Kelly Mahaney 
r-------------------------------------. 
page 16 Tuesday, April 24, 2001
The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL
TRACK 

Penguins earn win in overtime
Irish weather meet, turn 
. Straka steals
in solid performance 
By ANDREW SOUKUP As.socia,., Sporrs E<litor 
Last weekend. a select number of athletes from the men's and women's track teams competed at the prestigious Mt. Sac Relays held in California. Despite difii­cult weather conditions, several Notre Dame athletes turned in solid performances. 
The quality of competition at the meet was extremely second consecutive 1,500-mcter race, although he ran in the sec­ond heat rather than the fast heat. Conway crossed the line in 3:50. 
"He looked really strong and he competed very well," Shay said. "He won his heat. rthink if he would have been in the best heat he would have run a better time. I know he wasn't happy with his time and he wants to go faster." 
Because of 
the poor weath­
high because "! was glad to get an er, the Irish 

ing play in overtime in a des­
amateur and coaching staff 

perate attempt to avoid a
NCM qualifying time. I
professional restricted the 

Game 7 on visiting ice. Straka 
athletes were did want to run faster number of 

grabbed the puck off Gonchar
jumps Tom
allowed to 
than what I did." 

in the Capitals' zone and beat 
compete side­Gilbert and Quill 

Olaf Kolzig inside the near
by-side with Redwine were 

post for his first goal of the
college ath­Ryan Shay able to take. 
series.
Nevertheless,
letes. NCAA qualifier 

The Penguins opened a 2-0
For the Irish, Ryan Shay turned in yet another out­standing performance. In the 5,000 meter run. Shay finished 18th overall -ninth among col­lege runners -and ran a 13:54, fast enough to earn an NCAA provisional qualifying time. 
"I was glad to get an NCAA qualifying time," he said. "I did want to run faster than what I did. The conditions weren't the best because it was raining." 
The senior All-American bat­tled for most of the race with a very tight pack. 
"There were so many good guys in my heat," Shay said. "There were about 30 guys and they all run about the same time. So the traffic was pretty tight and a lot of people got tripped up." 
Shay, who automatically quali­fied for the NCAA Championships in the 10,000-meter run last month, could potentially compete in both the 5,000 and the 10,000 at the national championships. But he wasn't sure whether he would compete in both or just specialize in one event. 
Junior Pat Conway won his 

without a long sigh of relief. 
With the Penguins confident­
ly dictating the play with a 2-0 
lead, defenseman Brendan 
Witt scored a fluky bad-hop 
goal from the blue line at 
14:07 of the second, and Jeff Halpern lifted a shot over Johan Hedberg's blocker to tie it at 17:28. 
The momentum now swing­ing the Capitals' way and the Penguins suddenly in danger of being forced into a Game 7 on Tuesday in Washington, Andrei Nikolishin and Ken Klee drew penalties 1:21 apart to give the Penguins a two­man advantage. 
With only seven seconds left in the period, it appeared Pittsburgh would have a prime chance to regain the lead early in the third period. 
Kovalev, however, didn't wait, skating to the puck after a faceoff in the Washington end and powering a slap shot over Olaf Kolzig's right shoul­der just ahead of the period­ending horn. 
There was a brief moment of doubt as the referees called upstairs, to make sure time hadn't expired. Replays showed Kovalev snapping off the shot with 1.4 seconds left, and 0.7 seconds were put back on the clock to finish the peri­od -but only after a disgust­ed Kolzig was brought back from the dressing room. 
Both teams had numerous good scoring chances in a back-and-forth third period that was far more frenetic than the previous five games, in which only 17 goals were scored and the team that 
scored first quickly went into a 
defensive shell. 

With the Penguins confident­ly protecting their 2-0 lead and seemingly in no imminent danger. Witt intercepted Darius Kasparaitis' pass from behind the net and threw the puck on net. The quickness of' the shot seemed to surprise Hedberg, and it 1rnunced through his legs for the Capitals' first even-strength goal in regulation time of the series. 
The momentum now shift­ing, Lemieux had a chance to restore the two-goal lead, only to shoot high on a 2-on-O breakaway. The Capitals took advantage of Martin Straka's high-sticking penalty to tie it on Halpern's second goal of the series, at 17:28. 
Halpern also set up Johansson's tying goal at 
17:20 of the third and the Capitals, staring at elimination if they didn't score, taking chance after chance. Hedberg turned aside Halpern's back­hander five feet to the side to the net, but the puck skidded into the slot and Johansson slammed it in off Jaromir Jagr's skate. 
Halpern also scored the game-winner in the Capitals' 4-3 overtime victory in Game 4 in Pittsburgh after the Penguins scored twice in the third period to tie it. 
Washington's dual come­backs overcame Pittsburgh's dominating first period. Lemieux scored his fourth of the series at 7:21 on a power play, and Lang scored 1:38 later to make it 2-0. 

puck in overtime to score winning goal for Pittsburgh 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH 
Martin Straka-stole the puck from Sergei Gonchar to score at 13:04 of overtime and the Pittsburgh Penguins held off two Capitals comebacks for a series-ending 4-3 victory Monday night. 
With the Penguins dominat­
both turned in solid perfor­mances. 
Gilbert placed fourth in the long jump with a mark of 22 feet. 8 inches, the best mark on the team this spring. 
Meanwhile, Redwine finished ninth in the triple jump with a team best 47-3. In the high jump, he cleared 6-8 to take fourth place. 
On the women's side, a pair of Notre Dame athletes turned in solid performances. Freshman Megan Johnson continued her tear through the 1,500-meter run by running a 4:30. Her time was fast enough to earn her a third-place finish in her heat. 
Meanwhile, sophomore Tarneisha King ran 14.45 in the 100-meter hurdles to take fourth place in her section. 
The men and women will take to the track next week at one of two locations in a final tune-up lead on goals by Mario Lemieux and Robert Lang, then lost it during a frantic 3 1/2-minute stretch of the sec­ond period. But they avoided a potentially series-swinging collapse with one of the timeli­est goals in their playoff histo­ry -Alexei Kovalev's score with one second left in the sec­ond period. 

Calle Johansson tied it with 
2:40 left in regulation, but the Penguins recovered to win for the only the second time in their last seven playoff over­time games. 
Beating the Capitals for the sixth time in seven series since 1991, Pittsburgh advances to its first playoff series against Buffalo since 1979. And not 
for the Big East Championships, which begin March 2. Some ath­letes will travel to Iowa to com­

STUDENT ORGANIZED LECTURE 
pete in the Drake Relays. while the rest of the team will compete in the Purdue Invitational. 

Professor Michael Sherry, distinguished historian from 
Northwestern University, will speak on the topic -­
OPENS THIS WEEK! 
Don't miss this funny yet touching Broadway musical! 

"DON'T ASK, 
•• ...... ••
• ..• •
• •• .~ •
• : • •
• • . •
• .• •
• .•. •
• .... .. •
•
• ..i (.) l •• 
• ·11• •
• r.•::..• a. I •
.,"'-.. 
...............•·
• 
\ ~.. •
• ! ,::, i •
• i ,..I •
• 
i ··••·••· 
• II • 
,.,,•••••z:_ 
• 
• • •• -~ . ............ . •• 
•
• ' \ "·..• ::J •
•
•... ;7•" : 
• 
• ~ ,J
• ............•· •
•
• 
•
• 
Showbiz and • 
• 
ADream. .. •
• 
Thursday 
April 26th at 8 p.m. 

DON'T TELL'': 
• 
Friday 

The Great Debate on
April 27th at 8 p.m. • 

Gays-in-the-Military 1993-4
Saturday 
April 28th at 8 p.m. 
• 
Sunday 

All are invited. Q & A to follow 
April 29th at 2:30 p.m. 
• 
Saint Mary's College 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 

Monday, April 30 
7:00 pm 
ImgfiAD
C_~ THE All{!.., 

Lafortune Ballroom 
~NOTRE DAME, IN 
For ticket information contact the 

Sponsored by the History Department, Knott Hall. the Student Union, the
Saint Mary's Box Office at 

University Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Needs, College Democrats and College Republicans
284-4626 
\ 


Tuesday, April 24, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Notre Dame wins sixth in a row with 12-5 victory 
ANTOSTA.12001 
university of notre dame april 25-27 free cotton car{dY outdoor movie 

karaoke.
lfree Silo cories
~ . .. 

laser tag :sup 'n tide 


By JOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 
After four straight home wins, the Irish were forced to go on the road last Sunday. The change of venue proved unimportant, as the Irish cruised to their sixth straight win overall; crushing their hosts the Fairfield Stags 12 to 5. 
Thanks to another tough defensive performance and strong play in the net by senior goalie Kirk Howell, the Irish improved to 11-1 on the season. The win wrapped up Notre Dame's Great Western Lacrosse League divisional play with an unblemished 4-0 record, good enough to clinch an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. 
While Howell's 13 saves kept Fairfield's offense in check, junior attackman John Flandina led the Irish offense with three goals. Notre Dame career· assist leader David Ulrich chipped in with four more assists to raise his career totals to 
106. The Irish were held somewhat in check by some strong play by Fairfield goalie C.J. Kemp. 
Irish Coach Kevin Corrigan was impressed with his team's relentless offensive pressure. 
"Fairfield's goalie did a 

great job in net. He's proba­bly the best goalie we faced all year. but we kept bat­tling. We just did a lot of good things in every area of the game. We really didn't show any weaknesses out there," said Corrigan. 
Fairfield actually scored the first goal of the game, but the Irish rattled off five unanswered goals to take a commanding 5-1 lead. As usual, the Irish defense refused to allow its opponent back in the game, enabling Notre Dame to sustain their lead and control the pace of the game. 
Balanced team play has been the key to success all season for the Irish. Seven different Irish players scored on Sunday -seniors Jon Harvey, Chris Young and Sieve Bishko all scoring two goals each to go along with Flandina's three goals. 
"We had another balanced offensive attack. I have been very impressed with the play of John Flandina lately. This year he has emerged as a true leader of this team." 
With only one home game left against Harvard on Saturday, the fourth-ranked Irish need to continue their balanced offensive attack if they hope to close out their season with a win and main­tain their momentum head­ing into the NCAA tourna­ment. 

giveaways @ acoq~lcafe 

. .,. 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
Monday-Tuesday, April 23-24. 11:30 pm-10:00pm St. Paul's Chapel. Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday. April 24. 7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday. April 25. 8:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Notre Dame Chorale Concert 
Wednesday, April 25. 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Friday. April 27, 8:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center Lounge 
807 -a new Mass on Friday nights 
Sunday, April 29, 10:00 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
RCIA Faith in Action 
Sunday, April 29, 1:30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. J. Steele, csc 
Sunday, April 29. 8:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Notre Dame Women's Liturgical Choir Concert 

Sound Profound 
We have all known the long loneliness and we have learned that the only solution is love and that love comes with community. 
The best thing to do with the best things in life is to give them up. 
-Dorothy Day (1897 -1980), founder of the Cathloilc Worker movement 

Campus Ministry 
Contact us or 
Drop by: 

Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 email ministry. l@nd.edu web www.nd.edu/~ ministry 
Around Easter among bunnies and eggs, we see another curious symbol of che holi day-lamb cakes and Easter cards emblazoned with images of a lamb bearing a banner with a cross on it. Curious, yes, but this is the most ancient and scriptural 
as well as the most important of the Easter symbols. Before we can understand the Paschal Lamb, we have to look at Covenant. Covenant is the central concept ofthe Old Testament. It binds the New Testament to the Old and even explains the crucifixion ofJesus. A covenant is a formal bond between people or groups of 
people. An alliance between nations which 

binds them together for mutual defense is a kind of covenant as is marriage. The God of Israel and the Jewish people are bound by a covenant. In the ancient world a covenant was sealed through the sacrifice of an animal. In the time of Jesus the Jewish people had been renewing their covenant with 
God each year, for over a thousand years, 
during the feast ofPassover by bringing 
the paschal (Passover) lambs to be sacri­
What ii meant by the term Paichal lamb? ficed at the .altar in front of the temple 
in Jerusalem. Each family would come 
and ritually lay their sins on their lamb before the priest would sacrifice it. By sacrificing the lamb and eating its roasted flesh at the Passover supper while recalling the story of the Exodus from Egypt, each family would renew the covenant of Moses between God and the people of Israel. Jesus, during the feast of Passover, at the last supper took the bread and wine and said "This is my body which will be given up for you ...This the cup of my blood, the blood of the new and everlasting covenant which will be shed for you and for all so that sins may be forgiven." Jesus was saying in so many words-I am the Lamb. Cast your sins on me. In my blood a New Covenant will be established forever. Besides the Eucharist we only see the body and blood ofJesus in one place-on the cross. On the cross, Jesus is the Passover Lamb ofthis New Covenant. Christians are now bound to God through the sacrifice of Christ made present at each Eucharist. As the Jewish people ate the lamb, we eat the body and blood of the Lord. Each time we celebrate the Mass, God renews the Covenant ofJesus with his people. This is why the priest says the words ofJohn the Baptist before we receive communion, "Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world." (Jn 1:29) 
Ever wonder why we a1 Catholiu do what we do or believe what we believe? Plea1e 1end m your questiom, comment\ and rnggestiom to ministry.1@nd.edu. 
fiJ Interfaith Prayer Service 
Need a li••1e prayer break1 
lncerfaich Chriscian Ni9hc Prayer Led by s1uden1s for s1uden1s. 

Every Wednesday @ 10 p.m. Morrissey Chapel featuring the Celebration Choir 
ALL ARE WELCOME 


Tuesday, April 24, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALL 
Belles' bats power a doubleheader win 
By MOLLY MCVOY 
Senior Scaff Writer 
The Belles hitting has come out of its slump. 
With its batters leading the way, Saint Mary's swept anoth­er double-header against Franklin College on Saturday. 
"With us being patient enough, we were able to take the first game, and we got the hits we needed to take the sec­ond," said head coach John Kovach. 
Saint Mary's took the first game 7-3 and won the second 5-4. 
The first game was a test of endurance for the Belles as they went three extra innings before winning the game in the 10th. 
Junior Kristin Martin pitched the game, going all 10 innings and giving up three runs on five hits and no walks. Martin also recorded nine strikeouts in the game. 
"[Kristin] kept us in it," Kovach said. "In her last two outings, I don't think she's 

The RecSpys will be
Athletic Department • University of Notre Dame 
presented at the Dinner of
PROUDLY PRESENTS 
Champions Attendance is by invita­tion only
The RecSpys 
Vote Online at http://ddweb.nd.edu/ddwww/recsport/ 
Male Undergrad Participant of the Year 
• Mike Garofola-Recognized by many as one of the "RecSpo1ts guys,'' this fitness room supervisor helped carry the St. Eds 1H baseball team to an undefeated 4-0 record and 
the #I seed. In the playoffs, Mike continued his streak. hitting a homerun in the championship to tie the game before ultimately earning the title. 
• Kelechi Ndukwe-Known to most as "Kelly," Mr.Ndukwe has been one of RecSports most active partici­pants. Competing in as many soccer events as possibl~, 
Kelly helped the Stanford Griffins grab the las_t playoff spot in lnterhall soccer before heating up and blowing through the tourney, rocking the defending champs 2-0 in the final. 
• Wally Pfenning-Wally has participated in numerous RecSports activities in the past three years. His most notable 
accomplishments came in CoR_ec Br_oomball, where he !~ad his team, Go Fish, to three straight fmals and two champ10n­ships over those 3 years. 
. Grad/Fae/Staff Participant of the Year

1 
I • Liz Cheung-Playing GFS is tough, especially when I f Id · I 21 b t t for 
I you are one woman on t1e ie wit 1 mei:i, u no
Liz. Liz managed to show off her soccer ski 11s and dazzle I spectators as sbe led Tainted Fruit to the GFS soccer I championship. I • Junbo Feng-This guy is everywhere. From reffing · J b II b " d t R cS orts
I topIaymg, un o can usua y e 1oun a a . e P 
facility on any given night of the week. While l1e may not I have won any championships, it was defi~1tel_y not a re~ult I of Junbo's skilL J:Ie has shown heart, ded1c,at1on and fau_ play thro~ghout Im career and after all, 1sn t that what it is I all about. 

l • Scott Klein-Known by the staff a; G(:orge Clooney, I. championship and outscored their opponents 73-9 on the year. • 
· GFS . b 11 QB I • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
I Scott has single-hand~dly dommated toot a as a • • • ____________ _ 
Land basketball as a ££l~Lzard. _______.J r -7 -----l G f th v I Late Night Olympics Team of the Year I
Intramura ame o e l.ear I
\•Sorin/Walsh Wiffleball & Nerf FB-Larry
• MIH Basketball final-Keenan vs. Keough-In a surprise, the I 
1 Iand Psycho were everywhere and what \~as more battle between the #I seed Keough Roos and the #6 seed Keenan Knig 1ts memorable than ha.If of Sori~ Hall standmg on the I came down to the wire-4 times. Clearly an underdog throughout the Istage and beltin<Y out the National Anthem after tourney. the Kni_ghts defeated the #2 and #3 seeds before sinking a buzzer ~ e 1 I
-Iclaiming double tit es. 
beater in triple OT to trip the favorites and claim the title. · II I
1 • O'Neill/McGlinn Broomba · Can you say 
• MIH Football Semifinal-Dillon vs. Keenan-80th teams' Iintense? What is more scary than Shan~ocks and the I hard-nosed defense kept this battle close all the way th.r?ugl: 3 ~T's. Angry Mob staring you down_ from belund a mask However. it was Keenan ·s determination and the foot ot their kicker that Iwith sticks in their hands? TlllS team played together I 
brought the Knights the victory and a chance to play in ND Stadium. Ibefore LNO and it showed. I 
• WIH Football Final Welsh Fam vs. Howard-In a battle 1• Keough/Welsh Fam. Volleyball-This I reminiscent of David and Goliath. the #6 Ducks had their bands full with group captured the spirit of LNO as they_ completed I the # l Whirlwinds. Welsh Fam. proved their case by defeatmg Howard Itheir Jast match after 4:00 a.111 full of snules. -' 
26-6 for back-to-back championships. L _____ --------­walked a batter." 
Franklin jumped to a 1-0 lead in the second inning, but Saint Mary's came back and scored two in the third. Franklin would not go quietly, however, and sent the game to extra innings with another run in the bottom of the seventh. 
When neither team scored a run in the next two innings, the game went to the international tiebreaker rule. According to the rule, the last out in the bot­tom of the ninth for both teams becomes a runner on second base in the 10th inning. 
This started the Belles off with Martin (the last out of the ninth) on at second to start the 10th. Kovach said teams usually bunt the runner to third and then try to bring her home, but he felt Saint Mary's had enough power to hit Martin home with­out the bunt. 
"We gambled and we didn't bunt," Kovach said. "We were just gonna knock her in." 
The gambled paid off when sophomore catcher Susan Kutz hit a RBI double to score Martin 

1: Intramural Team Of The Year : 
I• • Cavanaugh Basketball-Simply the best women's • interhall basketball team in years. The inspired Chaos team_:-vas •
1 • unde"eated i·n regular season and breezed through the playolts to •
• 1, ~ ~ •
I: the title. • 
I. • The Deuce CoRec Flag Football-Battling back • 
1: from a season-ope.ning defeat, this te_am m~naged. to go unde-• feated the remainder of the year .. With their top temalc player out
I• QB 1 • · h 
• with a sprained ankle and their star P aymg wit ~wo •
!. dislocated fingers on his throwing hand. the Deuce still managed•I• a 31-2 shellackmg of their opponents in the championship. : 
1: • Off Campus Ice Hockey-This team took the league • • and tourney by storm. They never lost a game on the way to the • 
r-----------------,
I Female Undergrad Participant of the Year I 
I• Jenni Chang-Jenni was a valuable asset in the fall, I I helping propel the Lewis Chicks to the semifinals in IH I 
basketball. Now that the weather has warmed up, nothing has IIchanged. With Jenni's help, the Chicks head into the playoffs as I the favorite. I I • Kristin King-Ever since arriving at ND, Kristen has I I been as involved in RecSports_ as a~yone. T~is year al~ne, she I 
has added to her list of champ1onslup~ titles m IH Tenms . IISingles .i.nd CoRec Flag Football Knste? _also lead the_ Pyros ofI PE to the semis in 1H basketball and part1c1pated on a fmals-I 
bound CoRec basketball squad. I I • Vanessa Lichon-Vanessa has taken full advantage of I Iher time at Notre Dame, participating in every event im~gmable. I Whatever the sport, Vanessa is a force to be reckoned with, I leading Welsh Fam. to the t1,n~s in 1H basketball and volleyball I Iand to the trophy in Women s football. .I 
and start off the five-run inning. gave up four runs on five hits. After freshman Katrina Tebbe Again Franklin jumped out to 
reached base on a fielder's choice and freshman Erin Sullivan laid down a sacrifice bunt, junior first baseman Rachel Deer hit an RBI single to make the score 4-2 in favor of the Belles. 
Freshman Holly Zeigler then hit an RBI single and was fol­lowed by freshman Mandy Hayes who doubled in another run to make it 6-2 Saint Mary's. junior third baseman Melissa Hayes added to the lead with a one-run RBl single. 
"We hit when it counted," Kutz said. "We knew what we needed to do and we jumped on 
it... Franklin came back and scored one run in the bottom of the 10th, but not enough to overcome Saint Mary's five-run 10th, and the Belles won the game 7-3. The second game only lasted the regulation seven but was an equally well fought contest. Freshman Libby Wilhelmy pitched the second game and 
a 1-0 lead in the top of the first, but Saint Mary's answered with two runs in the bottom of the inning on an RBI single by Hayes and an RBI double by senior Cindy Traub. 
The Belles added one in the fourth on an RBI by Traub to make it 3-1, but, again. Franklin came back with a run to make it 3-2 in tho bottom of the fourth. 
"Cindy Traub had a great senior game," Kovach said. "She had a clutch RBI double and an RBI single." 
The Belles added two more in the top of the sixth to give themselves a three-run lead. Franklin, however, came within one by scoring two runs of their own in the bottom of the sixth. Neither team scored in the sev­enth and the Belles won by a final score of 5-4. 
"We just could never quite shake them." Kovach said. "We played really good defense and got the hits when we needed them." 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish fall to No. 5 Hoyas 
By ANTHONY BISHOP Spores Writer 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team ran into a wall in the midst of their climb to the top of the Big East stand­ings. 
Failing to fifth-ranked Georgetown 17-7 on Sunday, the Irish (8-4) move to 3-1 in the Big East, placing them behind the Hoyas (10-2). who are 5-0 in the conference. 
"The Hoyas are a very good team. They deserve their No. 5 ranking," said head coach Tracy Coyne. 
Georgetown showcases sev­eral all-Big East players, led by preseason all-American Sheehan Stanwick. 
Georgetown came out of the gates fast and early, scoring the first four goals and never looking back. Their streak was broken by a goal from junior Tina Fedarcyk. Later, the Hoyas added another goal through a free-position shot. but Notre Dame answered immediately with two more goals of their own. 
The Hoyas added another point before junior Natalie Loftus scored the first of her two goals, bringing the Irish to within two. It was then that Georgetown took over, domi­nating with eight straight goals in the next 28 minutes of play. 
Loftus finally broke this trend with a goal at the 15:25 mark making the score 13-4. Another four goals from the Hoyas put the game way out of reach for the Irish, who scrambled for three more goals before the end of the game. 
"We didn't capitalize on our 
possessions. When you play 
team as good as them, you 
have to take care of the ball. 
We didn't do that," said Coyne. 
This loss was a setback for 
the Irish, who had hoped to 
break into the rankings for the 
first time ever, but it will not 
kill their chances. With two 
home games remaining ­
against rival Ohio State and 
Rutgers -as well as a closing 
game at 15th-ranked 
Syracuse, the Irish still have a 
good chance of breaking into 
the top 20 and receiving an 
invitation to the post-season 
tournament. 
The next game for Notre 
Dame will be Wednesday at 4 
p.m. in Moose Krause 
Please Recycle The Observer. 

L • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
---------------------~~----------------­
r----------------7• • 


WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Saint Mary's look for easy win over Bethel College 
By KATIE MCVOY 
A.ssocia1c Spom Editor 
It will be a battle of the Benders today as the Belles of Saint Mary's take on the Pirates of Bethel College in tennis at Bethel. 
"We're not expecting it to be too hard," freshman Kris Spriggle said. "It's gonna be a good practice to get us ready for the confer­ence tournament." 
The Belles, who recently clinched first place in Lhe MIM, are coming off a 2-1 weekend effort. The Belles first defeated Kalamazoo College to up their conference record to 6-0. On Saturday. they defeated Wheaton College 6-3, but fell to OePauw 6-3. 
Kalamazoo proved to be an easy victory. The Belles took the match 9-0 and added two expo­sition matches for good measure. The Hornets won only 16 points while the Belles won 108. 
Annie Knish, Natalie Cook and Jeannie Knish led off the singles victories, defeating their opponents in two sets. Annie Knish took her match 6-0, 6-0, Cook followed 6-2, 6-2. and Jeannie Knish wrapped up the top thre~ with a 6-1, 6-0 victory. 
Joining Cook and the Knishes were freshmen Kaitlin Cutler (6-0, 6-0), and sophomores Elisa Hyan (6-1, 6-1) and Angie Sandner (6-1, 6-3). 
The doubles teams wrapped up the nine points. Knish and Cook won No. 1 doubles 6-1, 6-0. Knish gave up the only point she lost dur­ing the match. Knish and Cutler won in two sets (6-0, 6-0) and Ryan and Trisha Jones took No. 3 doubles 6-1, 6-1. 
The Belles were coming off of a tough Saturday line-up that included the Thunder of Wheaton College and the Tigers of DePauw. 
The Belles faced the Tigers earlier in April at the Midwest Invitational and lost 8-1. Although they were not expecting a victory this time around, they were looking for revenge. 
"We all wanted to show them that we could play them better," Spriggle said. "Some of them weren't all that nice when we played them." 

·The Belles came away with better results this lime, claiming three matches against the Tigers. Jeannie Knish, Cutler and Ryan all claimed singles victories. Jeannie Knish took No. 3 singles after dropping an initial tiebreak­er and losing the first set. She came back and took the second Lwo sets 6-3, 6-2. Cutler took her match in three sets, winning the third set in a 7-2 tiebreaker. Ryan took an easy two set win, defeating her opponent 6-4, 6-1. · 
After splitting singles. Saint Mary's was in good position to claim a victory. In the past, the Belles doubles teams have been instrumental in finishing off some needed victories. However. they couldn't pull it out this time. All three doubles teams lost. 
"I think it was a tiring day," Spriggle said. "We were all playing really well, but the'othcr team just pulled through instead of us." 
However, Saturday was not a disappoint­ment. The Saint Mary's victory against Wheaton College was an unexpected and pleasant surprise. 
"We were all so surprised that we won," Spriggle said. "We lost to them last year. They had a reputation of being a better school. We went in there with nothing to lose making the best of each point.'' 
The Belles did make the best of each point. They took three of six singles matches and the doubles teams came through, winning all three matches to secure a 6-3 victory. 
The Knish sisters, along with Cutler, took the wins in singles. Annie Knish claimed her match 6-4. 6-4. Jeannie added a No. 3 singles victory, bringing home another close three set win. Cutler added the final singles point at No. 4, winning 6-2, 6-2. 
Knish and Cook took No. 1 doubles 8-2. Knish and Cutler took No. 2 doubles 8-2 and Ryan and Jones wrapped up the match with an 8-4 win. 
Action today gets under way at 3 p.m. at Bethel. 


TO ALL THE VOLUNTEERS WHO PARTICIPATED IN CHRISTMAS IN APRIL THANK YOU FOR YOUR DEDICATION AND HARD WORK!! YOU HAVE TRU'L Y MADE A DIFFERENCE IN THE WESTSIDE NEIGHBORHOOD!! AND ESPECIALLY TO THE CHRISTMAS IN APRIL STEERING COMMITTEE!!  


Tuesday, April 24, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS 
Women's Bookstore Basketball 
Women's Top 16 Teams 
Bookstore 
Slappy'JAll-Stars 

Preliminary Results 
Court ;ueens Belles Jthe Ball 

Takin' It to Tarek def. Bob
Hoters Fighting Flowers def. 
Bre'staners 

Chicken Quint Hardcon~ Strokers 
Dada da def. 5 Girls Who Got Cut frofri the Cheerleading Squad 
Sweet Monkeys Take 5 def. Ed
In th~Buff 

Team 70 def. 
Teat2s 

Even More Useless i fL
Younguuns 

than Worthless 
What's Up def.
Farle}s¼ngels Five Pieces of Pi
MaJirnz 

Eddy St. Ballers def. 
Too Many coJiJ in the Kitchen 

Playgirls We're 47 Yeai\ f)lder than You 
We Pity the Foo' def. 7 Britneys 
GREAT LAKE!,~GREAT TIMES 

Team 16 def. Four Normal 
LaJ~dies 

People and a Girl from Iowa 
WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE RESULTS ROUND OF 64 
WE'RE 47 YEARS OLDER THAN YOU  SLAPPY'S ALL-STARS DEF. AT THE BUZZER  
DEF. WE HATE THEM  TIME-OUT, l'VE LOST MY PANTS DEF. TEAM 8  
5 GIRLS WHO GOT CUT FROM THE  WHO'S NEXT DEF. TEAM 28  

CHEERLEADING SQUAD DEF. PLAYHATERS THE A-CUPS DEF. THE PLAYA'S CLUB HOLY BALLERS DEF. LOOSE BALLS YOUNG GUNS DEF. WE'RE SO LAZY, WE WEST CANAAN COYOTES DE.F BOB MIGHT NOT SHOW BELLES OF THE BALL DEF. PROJECT UP FOR THE GAME...AND IF WE Do, CHICKS FROM THE LEW WE'LL PROBABLY LOSE ANYWAY HOOPERS DEF. TEAM 70 ON THE REBOUND DEF. ROYALAS KICKIN' FIGHTING FLOWERS DEF. THE GIRL HARDCORE STROKERS DEF. THE SHAMROCKS NEXT DOOR TEAM 1 DEF. WE'RE OUGHTA HERE BOOH-YEAH DEF. DA DA DA PHOXIE LADIES DEF. TEAM 49 
COURT QUEENS DEF. TEAM 8UGHAUS TEAM 51 DEF. MAD SKILLZ 
New Candidates at Moreau Seminary 
Holy Cross: The Next Generation 
ANSWER ~ THECALL W 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
page 21 

Bookstore Basketbal I Results April 23 
Versatility def. Team 135/54/89/498/145, 21-12 Team 520 def. Nunc Dimittis, 23-21 The Benchwarmers def. Team 575, 21-8 Diaper Dandies def. Team 358, 21-8 Sexual Frustration IV def. Manhorse, 21-1 5 5 Reasons Your Girl Left You def. Bootney League All-Stars, 21-6 Team 199 def. Absolut Kurlies Vil: The 7 Year Itch, 21 -19 Narnian Thugs def. Team 573, 21-l 7 ND Today.com def. They Named the Thing After Us ...Thought We Should Have a Tearn, 21-6 TCB Band def. We'll Trade Looks for a MoralJy Casual Attitude, 21-9 Majesties def. The Onion, 21-9 Irvin Jones def. Krunet, 21-1 7 Strategery def. Duck Butter, 21-6 Gangrene def. Over the Hill II, 21-7 Boat Club def. Linebacker Lounge, 22-20 Killer Boots, Man! def. No Come Upence, 21-19 Candy Rain def. Malicious Prosecution, 21-12 Team 303 def. Duany Duany, 21-13 Verzatility def. Coke-aholics, 21-9 Please Call Us Bosephus def. Team 112, 21 -17 Teh Booty def. Prill & Co. , 2 1-12 Nylon Strokers de.f Malicious Prostitution, 21-10 Ill Tempered Sea Bass def. Crippled Squirrel, 21-5 Lazy Boyz def. Tearn 180, 21-11 Bacardi.com def. Tearn 31 5, 21-11 Freeballers def. Coco Butter, 25-23 Team 232 def. Team 292, Disqualified Phi Slamma Jamma def. Team 32, 21-16 5 Degree Guarantee def. This Hot Lunch Tastes Like Crap, 21-8 Team 186 def. Raw Dog, 22-20 Check Your Head Hans def. Extreme, 21-7 Project Mayhem def. College Boxes.com, 21-t 0 
I 
I 
I 
• l 
SOFTBALL 

Notre Dame sweeps Virginia Tech in doubleheader 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
Notre Dame Chorale & 
Chamber Orchestra 
Alexander Blachly, director 
8:00 pm5tltbn~ap, 
~prtl 25, 2001 
1'< Jilasllica of tbt ~acnb A,tatt 
Free and open to the public 
IeeVFo, ~ ~ ~c yott!Ein_k_ you~ ~ _ · plain 
funn -loo · 
• I 
Apply to be the 
01-200 
.:-,. 
serve 
"-11!!!1'=-""' 
Special lo The Observer 

The University of Notre Dame softball team won its 11th and 12th Big East conference games of the season with two victories, 5-0 and 4-0. at Virginia Tech (30-19, 6-6) on Saturday. 
The Irish came into the game strong after a win over DePaul last week, in which they rallied from a two-run deficit to jump ahead 7-2 and hang on for the 7 ­6 victory. Starting pitcher Jen Sharron improved to 20-2 on the season against the Blue Demons. surrendering three earned runs on nine hits. 
Danielle Klayman, Melanie Alkire. Andrea Loman and Jen Sharron each recorded two hits in the first game, with Klayman and Alkire driving in two runs each. 
The Irish jumped ahead 3-0 in the top of the first inning in the second game, as Notre Dame's top three hitters, Jenny Kriech, Klayman and Alkire all posted two-for-four performances. Irish starter Kristin Schmidt gave up just two hits in the second game, one of which was a solo home run by DePaul's Kathy Kukman. 
The weekend win over Virginia Tech puts the 11th-ranked Irish at 40-3 for the season, 12-0 in the Big East, and grants them ownership of the nation's top winning streak with a school­record 22 straight wins. 
Notre Dame pounded out 13 hits in the first game. but were only able to score five runs after stranding 10 base runners. Melanie Alkire led the hit parade for the Irish. going three-for-four with two singles and her third home run of the season. Danielle Klayman followed up her four­for-eight performance against No. 10 DePaul on Thursday with a two-for-four output in the first game. Notre Dame's lead off hit­ter, Jenny Kriech. also went two­for-four in the first game. 
Lisa Mattison continued to hit the ball well, drilling an HHI dou­ble to score Notre Dame's third run of the game. First base Andrea Loman accounted for the fourth and fifth runs of the game with her fourth home run of the season in the top of the seventh. 
Irish starter Jen Sharron pitched a brilliant game, surren­dering just two hits and striking out 10 for her 10th shutout of the season. Sharron was particu­larly effective in the last five innings, striking out eight of the last 13 batters she faced. 
Notre Dame continued to chalk up the hits in the second game, but also followed through on the game-one theme by leaving seven runners on base. Kriech led off the game with a single. moved to second on a Klayman ground out and scored on an Alkire single to put the Irish up 1-0. 
The Irish added three runs in the fourth inning after Lemire doubled and came home on a Loman single. Andria Bledsoe then reached on an error and Mattison drew a walk to load the bases for Alexis Madrid. Madrid came through with a bouncer up the middle, one of her three hits in the game, providing her team the winning margin. 
Game-two starter Kristin Schmidt improved to 19-1 on the season with her ninth shutout of the season, striking out eight (including striking out the side in the bottom of the seventh) and giving up just three hits. 
Notre Dame returns to action today, with just one game at Illinois-Chicago. 


Lookin1 -For a -F¦ n and excit.it.n1 
job -Fort.he 2001-2002 academic 
year? Se•··· 
Progralll Assistant 
in the Student Activities 0:Cfice 
Iii 

* Approxima"tely 7 hours per week primarily on weekend nigh-ts and la-te nigh't hours 
*3 posi"tions are open 
* Assis"t in -the planning and implemen-ta 'tion of S"tuden1" Ac'tivi'ties sponsored even-ts, including "ticke"t sales, facili"ty se"tup and clean up and more 
*Some even-ts you migh't be working wi-th 
include craf"ting, billiards,  card and  
board game 'tournamen"ts,  karaoke,  
shuttles and  more  

pplications are available in the Student Activi­
ies Office at 315 LaFortune. For more infor­
ation calI 631 -7308. 
Tuesday, April 24, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 

JVNIOR B.ECTIUCAL ENGINEER. PATRICK SHEA'S 
PRESS CONFERENCE WAS NOT NEA~LY AS We..L .A.TTENt>Et> .•• 

[) 


BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
ooPS. I ALWAYS THANICS. FoRGET ASouT JASON'S YoUR TRASH. oLD (",AMES AHEM. 
\ WERE 
STARTING To SMELL. 
~ 

TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
d 
6 

South Bend's humidity 

CROSSWORD 
gym clothes a Loaf of Bread 38 Skater Harding 67 Cause for a 
-and Thou" lawsuit
39 With 62-Across,

poet the question is 68 Cry of a blamer 5 Fruits by a ... (I) 89 Dines partridge 
42 Like "E pluribus10 Kind of palm unum" 
DOWN 14 Noose material -43 Ship of 1492 1 Symphony 15 1973 #1 Rolling 44Oumb_ performer: Abbr. Stones hit (stupidheads) 2 Idiot 16 •-the night 45 Minimovies 3 Strike _ (whatbefore ... " 47 Items in a models do) 17 The answer ls 22-Across 4 Takes five 49 Elevator man 5 Dog's Mdogs" 20 Twinkies maker 51 Storybook bear 8 Son of Seth 21 White-haired 55 Went down the 7 Cabinet Dept
fellow, maybe easy way 
aPart of a roof 

22 Where a brood 59 With ice cream 
9 Hush-hush

is raised 
62 See 39-Across 
10 Phaser setting,

23 Visible 
64 Lee or Musial on "Star Trek" 24 Berth place 6S • a 
11 Impressed

27 Conversation• Symphony" 
12 [I'm shocked! 

alist (1965 hit) 
Shocked!] 13 Peak in Greek ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE myth 18 Math groups
A 5 S 19 Covered with Puzzle br si.wn Dorfman E U wool 32 Punch tools 53 Lecterns 59 21-Across of 6-Down 
...,,,...~14 23 Homo sapiens, 33 Ex-head of Iran 54 Fix to suit · for example 34 The Green 55 Price BO Ifs plucked 25 Syllables Homet's valet 56 Knowing about 61 Peepers~=+i.-t meaning , 35 Awaken 
57 Leaving a small 83 Abbr. after forgot the words" 37 Participated in a opening 
some military
26 Sammy Davis choir 

58 Dispatched names 
...+;~~ Jr.'s "Yes-• 40 Completely 1...+,;;.;;+;.~ 28 Lion, for MGM, 
41 •-• you're itl"

e.g. Answers to any three clues In this puzzle 29 Fort_ (gold are available by toucl't-tone phone:
46 Attempt to S mediate
site) 1·900-420-5656 (951 per minute).48 Small fight
A ....+:+-:--:+-:-+:-:-t:1 30 Fictional Jane Annual subscriptions are available for lhe B N T 31 They're caught 50 Gem State best of Sunday C10&Sworos from the last 50 I N T E on beaches 52 Love, in Livomo years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

l:t.Lt.HKHlh~ BORN ON You can turn things around wim 
THIS DAY: Nikita Khrushchev, a little affection. 000 
Riccardo Patrese, William Hold­VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
en, Olivia Hussey, John Oates, You can achieve your goals if 
Sugar Ray Leonard, Lela Rochon you present your ideas to superi­
Happy Birthday: You will try ors. Don't hold back because of 
to do everything and be uncom­your insecurities. It's time to 
fortably busy this year. Stress is take a stance. 000 
up and patience is down. In look­LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
ing for creative challenges, you You need to catch up on overdue 
may have overstepped your correspondence. Talk to relatives 
bounds. Focus, discipline and about your personal problems 
hard work will be required, but if and see if they have any advice to 
you manage to pull it off, you help you through this period of 
will make your greatest accom­change. 00000 
plishments to date. Your num­SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
bers: 11, 23, 31, 34, 40, 44 Don't hold back. Say what you 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): think. Your ability to get your 
Love will beckon if you become point across may be hurtful, but it 
involved in unusual forms of will be appreciated. You need to 
entertainment. You should join a make the changes necessary to 
group that will help you develop your happiness. 00 
your talents -dance, theater, pot­SAGIITARIUS <Nmt 22-Dec. 21): 
tery, or any other interests. 0000 You need to talk to the big
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): spenders. Run yo·ur ideas by 
Be careful when dealing with them and see if you can't get a 
affairs of the heart. One-sided backer and a partner for your 
relationships will be hurtful if concept. Push your product and 
you don't keep them in perspec­you'll see some returns. 0000 
tive. Don't become fanatical CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): 
about your fantasies. 00 Use your discipline to finish 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): those unfinished jobs. You let Your humor, versatility and your personal paperwork pile up, charm will attract just about any­and now's the time to clear your one you're interested in. Don't desk. You'll feel much better hold back; let others know exact­knowing the work is done. 000 ly what you think and how you AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): feel about them. 00000 You need to be optimistic about 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): your future. You can get ahead if 
Difficulties when dealing with you use your intellect and other people's money will come insight into future trends. Don't back to haunt you if you don't do let criticism stand in the way of a a thorough job. Read the fine print good product. 000 
before you persuade someone to PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): sign on the dotted line. 000 Someone you work with may 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Spend not see things the same way a quiet day with your mate. you do. Don't be swayed to do You've probably neglected his or things their way. You work best her needs during the last few when you follow your own ... weeks, so make up for lost time. instincts. 000 
Birthday Baby: Your mind is moving a mile a minute. What will you do next? You are full of surprises and will always look for adven­ture and excitement in all that you do. Your imagination will lead you into many different scenarios. 
(Need advice? Oleck out Eugenia's Wel> sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astrolllllte.com.) 
<1:1 2001 Universal p..,..Syndicau, 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year .. D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _____________________ 
Address ------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip_-____ 

On a roll 
The Irish men's lacrosse team earns its sixth consecutive victory with a I 2-5 win over Fairfield.
PORTS 
page 17 

O
THE page 24 BSERVER 


BASEBALL 
Notre Drune earns No. I ranking 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 

Sports Editor 
The No. 1 atop Grace Hall shines as bright as a diamond now. as the Notre Dame base­ball team (35-5-1) was ranked No. l in the country in the week­ly poll released by Collegiate Baseball Magazine Monday. 
"It's really an indescribable feeling because I've never felt it before," head coach Paul Mainieri said. "I'm pretty over­whelmed by it. I'm very proud of it. I think our team deserves it. I think they've worked extremely hard." 
The honor marks the first time in the 109-year history of Notre Dame baseball that a team has managed to ascend to No. 1. Mainieri's team was also ranked second in the Baseball America poll and No. 4 in a coaches poll taken by USA Today/ESPN. 
Mainieri stressed that the team feels no added pressure with the ranking, and is simply relishing the moment. 
"I don't know how long it's going to last but we're going to enjoy it while it's there because I think it's a tremendous accom­plishment by a group of young men who have committed them­selves," Mainieri said. 
Two of those men are senior starting pitchers Danny Tamayo and Aaron Heilman, who have already combined for 16 wins on the season and lead a staff that boasts Division I baseball's low­est earned run average at 2.52. 
"Our starting pitching has 
see BASEBALUpage 14 


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 
Stinky Pinky continues unseeded tourney run 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK As,isranr Spom Editor 
A5 the wind whipped across Stepan courts Monday night, making outside shooting more a matter of See Also luck than 
Bookstore

skill, Stinky Pinky and results L h e 
page 21

Shockers continued its unseed­ed run to the round of 32. taking down Duany Duany 21-13. 
Stinky Pinky. made up of Knott residents Josh Wimmer, Blake Burgess, Ben Gilfillan, Brian Price and Mike Pykose shook off a slow start to come to dominant the contest in the second half. 
"Both teams started slow," said Wimmer. "It was 0-0 and 1-1 for a really long time." 
But as both teams started to adjust to the playing condi­tions and find their groove, scoring picked up. The game went to 6-6 quickly, but Stinky Pinky grabbed a 10-6 lead on its first major run of the game. and the score read 11-8 at halftime. 
"We were getting most of points inside," said Wimmer. "Nothing was falling outside because it was so windy." 
Stinky Pinky opened the second half with inspired play, going on a 5-1 run. Duany Duany countered with two points of its own to bring the score to 16-11. Stinky Pinky spread the scoring around evenly throughout the contest, with Pykose being the high scorer with just five buckets. 

But Stinky Pinky stepped up the speed of the game, con­verting on several fast break opportunities to put the game away. 
Ninth-seeded Project Mayhem, comprised of Jason Mayes. Luke Mueller, Matt White, Doug Wilson and Brian Hush handily defeated Collegeboxes.com 21-10. rely­ing on the strength of a sti­lling defense and tough inside play. 
"We worked it inside con­sistently," said Mueller. ··we had constant scoring. We really didn't go on long runs." 
Project Mayhem was able to control the flow of the game by employing a two­three zone defense, but ·did not have the height advan­tage, with both teams having equal numbers of players over six feet tall. 
"Our scoring was pretty balanced with our whole team." Mueller said. 
Rush had an especially strong game inside on a day where inside strength was the key to victory. 
Project Mayhem sprinted out to an 11-5 half-time advantage, and then methodi­cally put up ten more points to close out their victory and earn a spot in the final 32. 
Bookstore action continues tomorrow from 7-10 p.m., with all games played at the Stepan Courts. 
WOMEN'S ROWING 
Irish take home Midwest Rowing title 
By JOHN BACSIK Spo1ts Writer 
It was as easy as one, two, three this weekend for the women's crew team ­almost. The team was victorious in all three of its races at the Midwest Rowing Championships, but not with­out some interference from Mother Nature. 
The Novice 4 squad started things off early Saturday morning on Lake Wingra with the wind in the running as its chief competitor. The choppy waters couldn't deter the squad, though, as it defeated Kansas by three seconds with a time of?:37. 
The Novice 8 boat took to the waters around 8:30 a.m., after the conditions had calmed slightly. 
"It was a little difficult warming up," said freshman Katie Welsh. "We've practiced in those conditions before though, so we knew what to expect." 
Welsh and the rest of the Novice 8 boat took first in their heat, finishing in a time of 6:38, 20 seconds faster than Grand Valley State. 
This was all the rowing the Irish would do for one day, as weather quickly worsened. 
At first, officials simply postponed races until later in the afternoon, but the inclement weather never cleared, and the rest of the scheduled races were eventually cancelled for the day. The Irish were happy with their two victories despite the less-than-favor­able elements, but the delays caused a small problem. 
The team bus was due back Sunday morning, and only the Varsity 8 was able to stay to complete its races because they had traveled in a sepa­rate van. 
"It's unfortunate that the rest of our team couldn't stay. I think they would have been really successful." said senior Claire Bula. 
To compensate for the previous day's inconveniences the Varsity 8 was forced to rise in the wee hours of the morning for a 6:30 a.m. race. Neither the early start nor lack of added team support could deter the squad though, as they came in with a time of 6:14, defeating Wisconsin by one second. 
"Tm from Madison, and it was nice to have the hometown crowd there for us," said Bula. "Wisconsin has only lost this event once in the past, so it was nice to be able to defeat them as well." 
The next test for the women's team will be April 29. as it competes in the inaugural Big East Rowing Championships in Massa·chusetts. The Irish hope to upset Big East rivals Syracuse and Rutgers as they continue their quest for the NCMs in May. 
Baseball 
Women's Lacrosse Men's Lacrosse vs. Bowling Grt:en vs. Ohio Statt: vs. Harvard
SPORTS 

Today, 5:05 p.m. Wednesday, 4 p.m. Saturday, 1 p.m. 
... 
ATA 
Softball Football Men's Golf at lllinois-Chicago Blue-Gold Game at Big Ease ChampionshipToday, 5:30 p.m. 

GLANCE 

Saturday, 1:30 p.m. Saturday-Sunday 





