
Al I that jazz 
An expensive aftermath 
Ten universities will be represented as the 
Hngineers estimate that damages from 

Friday
43rd annual Collegiate Jazz Festival comes to 
Thursday's earthquake in the Northwest total 
Notre Dame this weekend. 
more than $2 billion. 
MARCH 2,
Scene . pages 12-13 
World & Nation . page 5 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 99 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Ex corde guidelines propose bishop mandates 
+ Discussion continues on how to best balance academic freedom, Catholic character at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's 
By PAT McELWEE 
News Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's arc schools placed in a rather unique position within the world of American higher education. 
Not only do they face the daunting task of remaining aca­demically viable and competitive, but they are committed to maintaining a Catholic identity within an increasingly secu­lar world. 
The difficulty of reconciling those two goals is amply demonstrated in the current debates over how to do so. The most controversial focus of these debates has been the requirement that all Catholic theology professors obtain a mandate from the local bishop. 
Professor John Cavadini, chair of Notre Dame's theology department, agrees with the goal of creating a Catholic and intellectual culture in Catholic universities. However, he believes, mandates are not the right creative force. 
"You can't legislate a culture," said Cavadini. "You can't legislate people's hearts. That's impossible. You can only change a culture by debate, consultation and persuasion." 
Mandates were conceived as tools to give bishops some jurisdiction over the Catholic theology taught in Catholic universities in an effort to preserve the Catholic nature of those universities. 
Perhaps as early as May 3, Catholic theology professors will be required to have a mandate to establish that they teach "in full communion with the Church," in the language of the papal document. Ex corde Ecclesiae. 
On one hand, Catholic universities do not want to revert to the dogmatic teachings typical of the Middle Ages. 
On the other hand, those same universities do not want to gu the way of Harvard and Duke -universities founded with a religious mission but almost completely secular now. 
see EX CORDE/page 4 


'Chubb Club' founder offers advice 
+ Molnar outlines ways of lifelong healthy eating 
By KRISTEN FITZPATRICK 
News Writer 
For Judy Molnar, the founder of Rosie O'Donnell's Chubb Club, her struggle with weight began in col­lege. 
A 1989 gradu­
a te of Clemson University and scholarship vol­leyball athlete for the Tigers, she was pres­sured to lower her weight for her sport. said 

Molnar Thursday Molnar in a lecture on beginning healthy lifestyles. 
"My coach told me one day that I had to get my weight down to 155 pounds. I tried everything, but at 6'2", I just couldn't weigh that." 
After college. the struggle became harder and the battle was often lost. "The people I worked with were going for fast food for lunch all the time and ordering pizza when we had to work late," recalls Molnar. 

The defining moment came in January 1996 when Molnar saw her medical chart where her doctor had written "morbidly obese". Molnar knew then that she had to make the decision to live or to die. and she chose to live. 
Since then, Judy Molnar has lost over a 100 pounds. She has compet­ed in several Iron Man Triathlons and several marathons, including the Chicago and Walt Disney World Marathons. 
Molnar was born and raised in South Bend and is the founder and former coach of the Chubb Club, which was featured on the Rosie O'Donnell Show. 
Molnar spoke on the life style changes that occur when one enters college. 
According to the Molnar. the Freshrnan-15 has now become the freshman 25. She sighted the fact that the dinning halls offer a wide variety of food and in unlimited portions. She also noted that college students often eat late and consume 
foods that they normally wouldn't on a regular basis at home. Molnar inquired, "how many piz­zas are ordered in your dorm?" 
She also cited that many students' favorite high carbohydrate sub­stance, beer, as another reason why some students tend to gain weight their first year of college. 
Molnar stated that one should not be trapped into thinking that people on television and in the movies are good examples of physical appear­ance. College students try to mirror what Hollywood looks like, said Molnar, citing recent polls that state students' number one concern is no longer homesickness, but eat­ing disorders. 
"You've been bombarded with images of what the perfect woman should look like and it's somewhere between Brittany Spears and Jennifer Lopez. It has become a prize to be skinny." 
However, society does not fit this mirror image; 65 percent of American males are overweight. 
The most important thing stu­dents can do now is establish 
see MOLNAR/page 4 

Publicity boosts number of SMC RA applicants 
By KATIE McVOY 
News Writer 
It's that time of year again. They're sitting on the edge of their seats; biting their nails, hoping they don't get red tagged, wondering where their home will be next year. 
No, it's not spring training, it's RA selec­tion. 
Every year in February and March. Saint Mary's women apply to be resident advisors for the next school year. They offer their time and their support to any woman who might live on their floor come August. And then they wait. 
"The worst part [of the process) is antici­pating whether or not you got in," said Cathy Canetti, a current applicant. 
The anticipation won't go on much longer. The 40 women, who applied to be RAs this year. of which only 20 will be selected. will know Monday whether or not they have been selected. 
see RA/ page 6 



1~---------~------~--~------­
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, March 2, 2001 
========================================================================================================
f 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Going forward, 
•

moving on 
The end of the year is fast approaching, while 
most seniors feel like they have a long time to 
graduation, things are happening all too fast in 
The Observer office. Next 
week will be our last official 
week. 
After next week we will 
all have more free time. 
After next week, we will be 
able to go out a lot more, 
see our non-Observer 
friends a lot more, sleep a 
lot more and do a lot more 
school work -well maybe 
not. While I have been for­
mulating an extensive plan 
of action for the last two 
months of my senior year, I 
still feel somewhat sad. 
After, managing the Viewpoint Department for a year, I finally realized what I wanted to accomplish. The past two weeks have seemed all too short to do it all. Now I know how to go about accomplishing these goals. But now is not the time. It is time to let go. 
It is time to teach those succeeding me all that I know and to encourage them to do their best, to let them know they can ask for help and be confident that others will rise to m,eet the challenge and, most importantly, to give them the room and time to be all they can be. It is time to move on. 
Moving on is hard to discuss now, with over two months to go, yet it is becomes easier if we put things in their place. There are many friends who are not best friends, but are not strangers. It is these people we will miss the most. These faces are the ones we will wonder about randomly in the coming years ­acquaintances that happen to fall awkwardly into the category of those who we cannot seem to keep in touch with. We are so used to seeing their faces; they are a crucial part of the Notre Dame experience. We cannot possibly take these people with us in our luggage and we cannot expect the whole campus to move with us. But we can take comfort knowing that though tho role they played in our lives is vacant, someone else will fill it. 
Just as when we left high school we found new friends here, friends that seemed so simi­lar to someone we knew at home, when we graduate in May others will fill the vacant roles in our lives. I have made close friends here, at The Observer and in my dorm, friends that I hope to keep. There will also be many other friends that will slowly fall through the cracks, those friends will always be in my heart, a memory that is sparked when I meet someone who tills thu same role. Someone who seems so familiar. In that we can take comfort, knowing that while an acquaintance may be gone, there will always be someone like them that will be there when we need him or her. 
We still have some time here and moving on will be tough, but at least we can be somewhat consoled knowing that we arc leaving compe­tent people behind. People that are different from us, but can excel in a different way. Wherever we go, we will meet more people, who will be special too, just maybe not in the Notre Dame, go Irish way. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those oJThe Observer. 

LIia Haughey 
Viewpoint Editor 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint 
Anne Marie Mattingly Pat Kelly Scan Hrodfuchrer 
Scene 
Kiflin Turner Amanda Greco 
Andrew Thagard 

Graphics
Sports 
Katy Hall 
Noah Amsradter 
Lab Tech Duffy-Marie Arnoult 
Thr Observrr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except <luring exam and vacation periods, The Observer is a memb(:r of the As.sodaced Pre~. All reproduction rights are re:Servtd. 


THIS WEEK IN ND/SMC HISTORY 
Tuesday, February 24, 1970 SLC OK's parietal recommendations 
The Student Life Council last night passed a resolution 
calling for the individual determination of parietal hour procedure by each residence hall after consultation with, and the approval of, the Hall Life Board. Fr. Charles McCarragher, Vice President for Student Affairs, passed out a five page rationale discussing the adminis­tration's opposition to the Life Board's motion. 
Monday, February 23, 1987 Scholastic hit with suspension 
Scholastic, Notre Dame's student magazine, has been sus­
pended from publication by the Student Activities Office. SchoJastic printed the photo ofan artistic work. a man and women embraced in a sexual act that was originally removed from the Juggler magazine. Scholastic will stop publishing permanently rather than allow administrators to review the magazine before it's published. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Quake impact ripples to Washington State U. 
PULIMAN,Wash. 
The Puget Sound area was rocked by a magnitude 6.8 earthquake Wednesday, and its ripple effects were felt in more way than one at Washington State University. 
In Pullman, many students spent the day worrying about loved ones. 
Christina Knapp, a freshman major­ing in international business, said she was surprised to finally get through to her family after countless tries. 
"It was scary because the riots hap­pened yesterday, and now this," she said. 
Knapp's brother informed her that her family was safe, and while the house did sway some, it was in good shape. Her brother said that for 20 seconds after the quake, their "back­yard pool became a wave pool." 

Upon hearing of the quake, fresh­man electrical engineering major Chad Caldwell said, ''I'm still sur­prised. It doesn't seem real yet, being here in Pullman." 
But real it was. The quake was so powerful, its shock was felt hundreds of miles away here at WSU. 
"I felt the building sway [in the Fine Arts Building]." said Lauren Greathouse. a junior majoring in fine arts and English. Greathouse, upon finding out of the quake, became immediately concerned for the wel­fare of her brother who lives in 


SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 
Bush's tax cuts benefit students 
SYRACUSE 
College students may get more out of President George W. Bush's proposed $1.3 trillion tax cut than they think. The tax break has the potential to expand the tightened job market -an appealing prospect for students graduating in May, said Donald Dutkowsky, a Syracuse University economics profes­sor. "For the last three to four years, [the govern­ment) has been collecting more in taxes than it's spending," Dutkowsky said. "It's become overkill at this stage in the game. [The tax cut] can lead to a better business climate, job market and prospects." In his first address to U.S. Congress since his inau­guration, Bush proposed his budget plan on Tuesday. Dutkowsky said students should also look to the long-term effects of the proposal. Bush asked Congress to privatize Social Security, making Americans responsible for their own retirement funds. Social Security, Dutkowsky said, is not just a concern for the elderly. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

~ ~ ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V-,a A.s.soc¦ led Press G,.pl1icsNtll 
Olympia. She found it was almost impossible to get through_ 
The earthquake also shook the WSU community in other parts of the state. 
"I was in the secretary of state's oftice this morning talking to his per­sonal assistant [when it happened]," said Clarke Brunkow-Mather, ASWSU Legislative affairs director and presi­dent of the Washington Student Lobby in Olympia. "We felt the shake, and Patrick McDonald [his assistant] said, 'It's an earthquake,' and l dove under the table." 
While working on the remodel job on the old White Hall, Paul Stricker of Kovalenko Hale Architects said the building was ironically almost done with a seismic upgrade to make the building more resistant to quakes. 

BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY 
Professors apologize for sexisn1 
PROVO. Utah 
Twenty-four Brigham Young University profcs1;ors have apologized for sexist comments made by f'ormer mal<• BYU students who now attend the Univorsity of Uta!J School of Medicine, according to a letter writt,~n by William S. Bradshaw, IWU professor of' zoolog-y. These comments, directed toward female medical students. have been brought to the attention of HYU administration. In a letter addressed to Victoria Judd, associate dean of the University of Utah School of Medicine, Bradshaw, along with 23 other professors, exprnssed both their apol­ogy and sadness in regard to this situation. "Thank you for making us aware of this problem, and accept our apologies for the limited vision of thos,1 persons in your program who make wrongful judgments about medical training for women," the letter stated. Sexism among freshman medical students has become a problem at BYU's school of medicine, and inappropriate commcmtb can be traced to former BYU students, said .John Dwan, director of public affairs in the I Iealth Science Ccntnr. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather" rorecast for noon, Friday, March 2. 
30a Lines separate high temperatura zones tor !he day 

®© G ~ Cll ~ ~ ~ t) ¼itllt• @Mk 
H}gh Low Showen Rain T-atorm._ Flurrta1 Snow Ice SUooy iPt Cloudy Cloudy w. Associal'-1 p,.._ 

Friday, March 2, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Ohmer speaks on getting ahead 
By KEVIN SCHUMM News Wricer 
Consistency and confidence, cognizance and communication, connection and compensation ­a combination of these six items is the key to getting ahead in today's society, said American studies professor Susan Ohmer Wednesday night. 
Ohmer opened her lecture ­the second in the Last Lecture Series sponson~d by student gov­ernment -applauding the cur­rent Notre Dame student. Drawing from her experiences as a professor at the City College of New York (CUNY}. she considers students' acceptance to and good standing within Notre Dame to be a great achievement. 
"[At CUNY! I realized what it means to not be ready for college ... not that [the students] were not interesting, creative, lively beings; merely that some people do not have the talent that it takes. The fact that Notre Dame students are here and are achieving at the level that they are, should result in a great sense of self-pride and reassur­ance for them." she said. 
Ohmer cited the desire to have 
a concrete plan for the future as 
the source of many students' 
everyday anxiety. Before, during, 
and after the selection of a 
major, students frequently con­template the ramifications of their major designation but unnecessarily so, suggests Ohmer. 
"Looking back with distant per­spective, it doesn't matter what your major is, it truly doesn't matter," she said. "Do what you enjoy doing. The work you do in every major will carry you." 
Acknowledging that a major is a necessary means to a produc­tive life. Ohmer advised against trying to gauge what would result in happiness at age 60, but rather using a major to answer the question, "How do I enjoy spending my time?" 
Ohmer said the best wav to attain this desired levei of achievement is to place a premi­um on consistency and confi­dence. Consistency, while often overlooked. is truly appreciated in all capacities, both personal and profossional. 
''Being in attendance, being awake and being attentive really makes a difference," said Ohmer. 
Another key Lo success is confi­dence. Looking to popular politi­cal figures, Ohmer clearly demonstrated the role of confi­dence in many people's success­es. An ability to "enjoy [oneself}" and believe in his or her self­worth undoubtedly has positive reverberations, regardless of the situation. 
Along similar lines, a person's awareness of and adaptability to the prevalent role of serendipity would without question prove rewarding. 
"As much as we want to plan and say 'I've got it all figured out,' things just happen. Be pre­pared, interested, and willing to take advantage of them." said Ohmer. 
Looking back on her life, Ohmer recounted explicit exam­ples where the input of her friends behooved her greatly. She stressed that one can "learn more, do better, and get ahead by talking with other people.·" At the same time, Ohmer also noted that unfortunately. the extraordi­narily high value placed on indi­vidual accomplishment in the academic arena, at times, could adversely affect one's transition to the professional world. 
In her last suggestion for get­ting ahead, Ohmer recognized the importance of money. Having lived in New York Oty as a grad­uate student, she described an awareness of compensation as just being practical. In closing, she suggested that the only limi­tation to success is not taking advantage of one's own ingenu­ity. 
"Success is an attitude, a state 
of mind. Figure out what you 
want the most and go out and get 
it," she said. 

DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS A 10 BEDROOM HOUSE 
-4 BATH, 3 KITCHENS -BIG COMMON ROOM WITH BAR -VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -NEAR OTHER STUDENT HOUSES 
-SECURITY SYSTEM -WASHER & DRYER 
CONTACT KRAMER 
-HEAT INCLUDED IN RENT 
(219) 298-9673 CELL PHONE 
(219) 234-2436 OFFICE (219) 67 4-2572 VOICE MAIL 
ALSO LEASING HOUSES FOR 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
Latson lecture targets healthy eating habits 
By KATIE MILLER 
News Wrirer 
Conscious eating and health awareness were the topics of Deanna Latson's program. "Eat Right. Feel Good. Look Great!" Wednesday night at Saint Mary's. 
"I used to be an unconscious eater," said Latson. "J put any­thing and everything in my body. I wanted to find a better way to live my life." 
In college, Latson suffered from bulimia. excess weight. severe migraines, colds, flus, and low energy. 
"It is painfully obvious that most of us take better care of our material items than our bodies," she said. 
She decided that she needed to 
"It is painfully
make changes in which pull her life when she obvious that most of calcium out realized her father of the
us take better care of 
was slowly dying bones."
our material items 
due to his poor H e a r t eating habits. than our bodies. " attacks, "He had stock­strokes, dia­piles of medicine betes, and
Deanna Latson
in his cabinet ... cancer can 
nutritionist
My father's doctor be prevented 
it meant to eat healthy. It's not about dieting, it·s about lifestyle." 
Latson studied nutrition in Asia and Central America. The lifestyle of the elderly of the different countries was very different from that of elderly Americans. Their aging process had not caused deteri­oration. 
"They were active. They had a completely different lifestyle. Those people do not look like our elderly people." 
Dairy products are not part of a healthy diet according to Latson. 
"Dairy products intensify allergenic reactions by 70 per­cent," she said. "Calcium is lost by people who consume "takers" such as soda and candy­ingredients 
said my dad would die quickly if he went off the medicine and slowly if he stayed on the medications," said Latson. "I wanted to find a better way to save my 
father's life." 
Latson changed her major and studied unconventional medicine. In graduate school, she met a "conscious eater," a woman of 41 who looked healthier, younger, and had more energy than Latson who was 23 at the time. This con­scious eater became a mentor and friend to Latson. 
The images the media sup­plies us with are 99.9 percent false, said Latson. A friend who works at Cosmopolitan Magazine sent Latson a pic­ture of' Cindy Crawford before it was altered. The picture that appeared in the magazine was dramatically different, said Latson. 
Latson warned the audience 
of the chemicals contained in 
Olestra. the fat-free ingredient 
found in products such as 
WOW Doritos. The ingredients 
attach themselves to vitamins 
and take them along when 
they leave the body. 
"One bag of WOW chips can 
lower cancer fighting antibod­
ies by 50 percent," said 
Latson. "Proctor and Gamble 
has invested $500 million in 
this product, that it will take 
years to get it off the market." 
Just because food is on 
shelves does not mean that it 
is safe. Lots of foods should 
have warnings on them and 
don't. Whatever you do, do not 
ignore warning labels, said 
Latson. 
Preservatives and additives 
in foods are a major problem , 
according to Latson. Even Girl 
Scout cookies contain additives 
that cause abdominal distress 
in young children. The FDA 
has reported an increase in 
high levels of toxins in young 
people. 
"Thirty -thousand new addi­
tives get added to the market 
each year," she said. 
Latson dismissed the notion 
that dieting is an effective way 
to maintain weight loss. 
"Eighty-seven percent of 
dieters gain their weight back 
or more," she said. "As a 
bulimic, I had no idea of what 
by a healthy diet. said Latson. 
"The American Cancer Association says that 40 to 70 percent of all cancers could be avoided by a diet of fruits, veg­etables, grains. and legumes," she said. "Twenty years ago, one in four Americans devel­oped cancer, ten years ago, one in three Americans devel­oped cancer, today. one in two will develop cancer. Eight­hundred thousand new dia­betes cases are developed each year. And heart attacks are becoming more common among women" 
Stanford University conduct­ed autopsies on children between the ages of four and seven who had died in car accidents and found their veins to be hardened with plaque as a result of a poor diet, said Latson. 
"Vegetarian athletes have 
twice the stamina of flesh eat­
ing athletes," said Latson. 
"The body expends energy to 
break down food; the more 
soluble food you eat, the more 
energy you create." 
Latson emphasized the 
power of the media over con­
sumers' diets and the impor­
tance of educating oneself. 
"We are educated by smart 
business people who want to 
sell their product: they are 
biased. Are you eating to live 
or living to eat?" Latson asked 
the audience. "If you live to 
eat. you could end up a statis­
tic. 
Since becoming a vegan, 
Latson has lost sixty-five 
pounds and bas not experi­
enced any of the migraines her 
doctor told her were heredi­
tary. Her father was able to go 
off his medications after three 
months of being a vegan. 
Latson left the audience with 
six strategies for living a 
healthy lifestyle. 
"Define healthy for yourself, 
cut down or eliminate animal 
products, experiment with 
vegetarian meals, eat as many 
raw foods as possible, elimi­
nate processed sugar and caf­
feine, and educate yourself." 
"The power of hand to 
mouth is incredible. By learn­
ing better choices, you can 
change your life and the lives 
of your loved ones." 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 2, 2001 

higher learning within their dioceses. I have been
Ex corde 
engaged in regular dialogue continued from page 1 with the local presidents of 
Catholic colleges and univer­
In a development which sities since 1991 [shortly may have significant impact after Ex corde Ecclesiae was on the details of academic released)." life at Notre Dame, proposed Marilou Eldred, Prnsident guidelines f'or granting man­of Saint Mary's, and dates to Catholic theology Professo·r Joseph lncandela, professors wern released in chair of' Saint Mary's theolo­November by the National gy department. both con­Conference of Catholic firmed that they had partic­Bishops. ipated in discussions with 
According to the ·proposed D'Arcy and would continue guidelines, mandates are to to do so in the future. be granted in writing by the "[D'Arcy] has been here. local bishop to Catholic the­lie had lunch with the ology professors. A professor department last semester," may request a mandate, pro­lncandela said. "The bishop vided she declares that she has been very responsive "will teach i11 full commu­and very supportive. Ile nion with understands the Church,'' some of the or Urn bish­"ff/mandates are] going difficulties 
op may to be enforced, then this could grant a man­create for
it's hard to predict 
date "on his us and for 
own initia­what the consequences all those tive." will be. but I don't think who teach 
The pro­theology."
they will be good." 
posed guide­Crucial to lines f"urther the interests spell out the Joseph lncandela of Catholic 
right of universities
chair, Saint Mary's
Catholic pro­is the ability
theology department
foss ors to to remain receive a academical-
mandate "ii' all the condi­ly viable. tions for granting the man­Mandates may threaten the date arc fulfilled." That is, freedom academics need to as long as the professor explore their disciplines, 
commits "to teach authentic including theology, accord­
Catholic doctrine and to ing to the concerns exhibit­refrain from putting forth as ing by many. Catholic teaching anything Also, acceptance of the contrary to" Church teach­mandate would lower uni­ing, and behavior straying versity prestige by giving from that commitment is not fuel to the arguments of crit­proven. ics of religiously affiliated 
In 1990, Pope John Paul II 
wrote Ex corde Ecclesiae, a 
document intended to 
resolve ambiguities in the 
relationship between the 
Catholic Church and its uni­
versities. and in 1999, the 
U.S. bishops approved an Application of that papal document. 
Following the release of 
those documents, bishops. 
universities and theologians 
have been involved in dis­
cussions on how best to 
implement the goals enu­
merated first in Ex corde and 
later applied to the special 
circumstances of U.S. uni­
versities in the Application. 
These discussions have 
focused on the crucial issues 
of academic freedom, insti­
tutional independence and 
Catholic identity. 
While all sides of the dis­cussion seem to agree on the 
ideals the Pope set out in Ex corde, not all agree that mandates are the right method for bringing those ideals into reality. 
Proponents of mandates urge universities and theolo­gians not to view the bishop as an external agent wield­ing power over Catholic uni­versities, but rather as a part of the university com­
ART SIIOI
munity itself. They stress mutual goals rather than adversarial roles. 
Bishop D'Arcy of the Fort Wayne-South Bend dioceses 
ARTSNOW has been an outspoken pro­ponent of discussions aiming 
-larchl9-April30 
ab,,, SRO)(~
to resolve difficulties with 
-Submissioas and eabJ .nn,U ~
mandates. 

lie has expressed respect 
forms mlodlJ, luck 5 
I -,.•"" • ._.. .-. ••.••• • ••• •
for both Catholic identily in 
:::--..£.•"••·•:--·-·~ ·..-.....·~·.-.: 
-Mop ilfo/nby f011 ii
Catholic universities and academic freedom. 
Riley Ball, 11013181 (amable 1111) 
In a letter provided to The 
-0pea to all ND, St Maiy'~ • Holy f.rosulldm 
Observer, D'Arcy wrote, 
~poasored by Arts Colledin. For 110re ilfo emil Arts Colledive t
"Like all the bishops who 
Fri. & Sat. 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m.
have Catholic institutions of 
tuuts.lkwts.lNei1
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/~ftt 
understanding among all involved parties that the 

mandate. while officially on the books. will not be enforced. 
But remains speculation, as no final decisions· have been made. 
Many details about the mandate remain up in the air, but discussions continue. 
The future of the mandate 
Smdag, Marci, 4, 2001 is difficult to guess. even by 
Zpm, Annenherr Aud;tonum
those directly involved in discussions about it. Sn;fe Museum of Art "If [mandates are] going to be enforced, then it's hard to 
T,ckefs ,-equ;red: 
predict what the conse­$3 students • So sen;o, dHzer,s quences will be," said $8 ~[)/SMC employees • $ 10 qenerol odm;,,;on '11ckeh ovoHoble ol fl,e l.oForlU"e Box Office, (2 191 o.31-8128
Incandela, "but I don't think they will be good." 
For more ;nf ormaHM, p,ease cart (1, 9) 631-6201, emaH co,,qoers.,d.edu, or y;5;f www.nd.edu/-conqoera
.. 
I 
into ¦ I I 5 __ ~-reak; I :1:18~Gt..,, Of=f I 
I ·sanilia~ls I 

Karen Burans"-as, cerro Mar;a Sfabre;n, p;ano 
the best exercise you can do.'' 
Molnar said students have their own needs and the key is to find what works for you. ''Time is a problem !'or every­one. You need to find what you need to do for you and fit it in." said Molnar. She said getting friends' help for moti­vation is the best way to fit accomplish goals. 
"If you have a friend who is nagging you to take a nap or to exercise with you, you are more likely to do it." 
Molnar challenged those present at the lecture to do things for themselves and to live by their own standards. She challenged the audience to take control of their own lives and to think about what they really want out of life. 
"The bottom line? It's all about you. It's not about a number on the scale or a dress size that you think you have to be. Find out about you. That's what it's all about," Molnar said. 
' 
universities, according to Notre Dame theology profes­sor Richard McBrien, who has publicly stated he will not seek a mandate. 
"As soon as you concede jurisdiction over internal academic life, then the uni­versity has given up claim to be a university in the true sense of the word," said McBrien. "I am concerned as a Catholic theologian that our universities be respected in the academic world. [Mandates are] embarrass­ing, they give more credibili­ty to our critics. Imagine bishops telling a university who may or may not teach," he said. 
According to McBrien, if Catholic universities lose legitimacy, the result would be less Catholic influence in academics, a result Ex corde and the mandates were not intended to create. 
At the end of all the dis­cussions, there may be an 
Molnar 
continued from page 1 
healthy life styles. Molnar stated that students should concentrate on regaining the control of our life that is often lost with the freedom that comes with the independence of going to college. She cites simple things that one can do to improve his or her life on a daily basis. When she asked how students would most like to improve themselves, most students answered that they would like to get more sleep. Molnar said that saying no and managing time are the two simplest things that one can do to achieve this goal. 
Some students stated that they would like to find the time to exercise, which Molnar said is very important. However, she said it should not take an exorbitant amount of time to excrete. 

ATION 
Friday, March 2, 200 I COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Bomb in Israel kills 1, wounds 9: A 
taxi van f'Xploded in northern Israel Thursday after police stopped it at a roadblock during a search for a suspected. terrorist. As officers were checking passengers' identification cards. a bomb aboard detonated, killing one person and wounding nine others. 
S~rbian prosecutors close in on M1losev1c: The net closing around Slobodan Milosevic tightened Thursday with a Belgrade prosecutor's announcement of the first formal investigation into his activities. Milosevic, tlw former Yugoslav president. is widf'ly hlamnd f'or the wars and atrocities of tlrn last decade but also for widespread cor­ruption in Srrbia. Milosevic, who is living in a government villa in Belgrade is under 24­hour police surveillance. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Prints shed light on murder: 
Fingerprints found in the home of two mur­dered Dartmouth College professors matched the younger of the two teen suspects, accord­ing to police documents releused Thursday. The 23 pages of affidavits released in Lebanon District Court outline some of the evidence that led police to Robert Tulloch, 17, and James Parker, 16, but give no informa­tion on motive. 
FBI agent's wife ignorant of spying: 
The wife of a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent accused of spying for Moscow had no suspicion that her husband might be involved in espionage and knew nothing about hun­dreds of thousands of dollars that ho was pur­ported to have received as spy payments, her lawyer said today. The wife, Bonnie lfanssen, has been in seclusion since the arrest of her husband, Hobert Philip Hanssen, a veteran counterintelligence specialist of the F.B.I. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Muncie man charged with murder: 
A Muncie man was arrested Thursday on charges he killed his estranged wife more than three years ago in southern California. Prosecutors in San Diego County, Calif., this week charged James E. Dailey, 35, with mur­der and he surrendered Thursday afternoon to police at a Muncie motel. Dailey is accused of killing 29-year-old Guadalupe Dailey in August 1997. Dailey's body has not been found. She was reported missing Aug. 31, 1997. Her pick­up truck was found parked outside a day-care center. 
Market Watch 3/2 
Dow 
10450.14 -45. 14 
]ONES 
Composite
Same: Volume:
1~9· 220 
NIA 
AMEX: 908,37 :.'+o:6s::~ Nasdaq: 2183.37 +31.54 NYSE:. 625.1.5'.; i' , ·• ,,:.1,79 ..•. ;i
..... 
S&P 500: 1241.23 +l.29 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) ,,.43 ,O.kl 24.)0 NASDAQ 100 SHAil (QQQ) +2.8~ , 1 .35 -IR.80 ORACLE CORI' (ORCL) • l2.S3 ,2.39 ll.38 SUN MICR05YSTEM (SUNW) t0.93 ,0.19 2D.0/, JDS UNll'HASE UDSU) ,9.35 ,2.50 29.25 
AFGHANISTAN 
Taliban troops destroy all statues 
international isolation, including U.N. the Metropolitan Museum in New 
Associated Press 
sanctions. York pleaded with Afghan officials to 
KABUL, Afghanistan Pakistani Interior Minister give the artifacts to foreign museums. 
Defying an international outcry, Moinuddin Haider told The Associated "In Afghanistan. they are destroying Taliban soldiers on Thursday began Press the Talibans' order "may have statues that the entire world considers destroying all statues in Afghanistan been an act of defiance brought on by to be masterpieces," UNESCO -even targeting two soaring, ancient the isolation they feel." Director-General Koichiro Matsuura statues of Buddha carved into the face As troops fanned out with every­said. "This iconoclastic determination 
of a mountain. thing from rocket launchers to tanks shocks me." 
The ruling Islamic militia said they to destroy statues, cultural leaders "All officials, including the ministry sought to purge the nation of idola­worldwide expressed horror. of vice and virtue, have been given the trous images, but their closest ally The head of UNESCO asked other go-ahead to destroy the statues," the Pakistan said the action could be a Islamic nations to pressure the Taliban's Information Minister backlash against Afghanistan's Taliban to stop, while the director of Qadratullah Jamal said. 

Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
The damage estimate from the Northwest earth­quake climbed to $2 billion Thursday as engineers inspected bridges, build­ings, dams and roads. But the region congratulated itself for escaping far worse damage. 
Most people went about their lives as usual, swap­ping stories about close calls during the most pow­erful quake to hit Washington state in 52 years. Few noticed two minor aftershocks early Thursday, and no addi­tional damage was report­ed. 
State emergency officials counted 272 injuries direc­tly linked to Wednesday's magnitude-6.8 quake, but most were minor and none critical. 
"The biggest news is there is no news," Seattle Mayor Paul Schell said. "There aren't any fatali­ties. The damage, while serious, is not anything like what people would have expected." 
Despite the good news, Gov. Gary Locke submitted a formal request Thursday to President Bush for a federal disaster declara­tion, which would make federal aid available. 
The earthquake was centered 35 miles south­west of Seattle and 33 miles underground. Scientists said the depth of the quake eased its impact, while municipal leaders said the millions of dollars spent stabilizing the region's highways and buildings against earth­quakes over the past decade paid off. 
Several homes were evacuated in a Tacoma neighborhood because of danger from mudslides. 
In nearby Steilacoom, more than 200 patients at a state hospital for the criminally insane were moved after inspectors declared the building unsafe. The patients were kept in a gymnasium under guard Wednesday night. 
In Olympia, the state capital south of Seattle, several streets were blocked off as crews began clearing away rubble. The Capitol complex remained closed, idling 10,000 work­ers, most of them until Monday, when buildings were expected to be inspected and cleaned. 
Legislative leaders said they will not know until Friday whether the Capitol itself, with a crack behind pillars supporting its dome, can be used. 
--·---­
Friday, March 2, 2001 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
RA 
continued from page 1 
The number of women who have applied this year has made the application process successful for the Iiesidence Life and Ilousing Department. During the last two years, the department was somewhat stranded because there were not enough qualified applicants to fill the openings. 
"They lhad already] turned people down who weren't qualified. so I applied and had a phone 
interview." said Senior HA Katie McGillis. She became an HA after HesLifo determined that they did not have enough appli­cants, although the department did manage to eventually fill ils 
staff. 
"This is the first time since I've been here that we've had a f'ull staff at the beginning of the year," said senior Courtney 
Takata. 
This is her third time through the HA sdcction process -this timo as a committee member, not an applicant. 
Saint Mary's RAs have a good deal of responsi­bilities. In addition to supporting their residents, RAs must create and run section events, take part in Saint Mary's activities and maintain con­trol in their section. However, what seems to prevent most women from becoming an RA is the rules RAs must enforce; St. Mary's RAs are expected to enforce alcohol policies. quiet hours. and visitation hours. 
"I think people are intimidated by the fact that they have to discipline their peers," McGillis said. 
"People don't like the fact that they might have to punish their friends," Canelti added. 
"Our job is very dij]icalt; some people don't like to be in the job of[where they are required to be] responsible. " 
Courtney Takata resident assistant 
RnsLifo and sludnnls have wondered why more women arc not interested in becoming RAs. A disadvantage to the job is that the only perk Saint Mary's provides to llAs is partial room and 
board. 
"I think [the low turnout! is because we don't have a lot of perks," Takata said. "Our job is very diflicult; some people don't like to be in the job of {where they are required to bel responsi­
ble." 

The selection process itself may also have something to do with the low turnout. The process begins with a written application, but the true test comes in February during a four-hour interview process. Women who are applying must interview in groups with current resident advisors and hall direc­tors. 
"The most intimidating part was [the number of! girls that came out !'or so few positions and how our interview process 
had a large amount of RAs and hall directors staring at you," Canctti said. 
"We just want to make sure we have the right person. RAs can make an impact like no one else can," Takata said. 
This year's selection process and its publicity may have encouraged more women to apply. 
"The publicity was much better this year," Takata said. "It was really catchy and showed the positives of being an RA. which is really important." 
L 

s 

SUMMER2002 
Judge rules Internet adoption invalid; twins to return to U.S. 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Attorneys said Thursday a judge will ask that twins adopted over the Internet be returned to St. Louis and that the fight for custody of the girls be decided in their hometown. 
The 8-month-old twins were born in St. Louis but, two couples, one from California and the other from Britain. both sought lo adopt them through the same Internet adoption broker. The California couple said the British couple received the girls because they paid more. 
Both ofthe couples and the twins' now-separated biological par­ents want custody of the girls, who are in foster care in Britain. 
Judge Steve Ohmer has not released any information about the case since sealing court records last month. But attorneys for the children and their biological mother said Ohmer told them Thursday he would ask courts in Britain and Arkansas, where the British adoption occurred, that the case be handled by a Missouri 
~~ . 
"The feeling of the court is that there's certainly jurisdiction 
here," said Bryan Hcttcnbach, who represents the twins. "This is 
where the kids were born. This is their hmm~ state." 
If British and Arkansas courts agren to let the case be decided in 
St. Louis, the court would decide what to do with the girls during 
the custody fight. said Gloria Allred, attorney for Tranda Wecker, 
the girls' biological mother. 
The girls -named Kiara and Keyara by the Weckers -~ere 
born June 26 in St. Louis. The Weckers separated a short time 
later, and the children were later put up for adoption. 

Four and a halfweeks for six hours ofacademic credit (May 15-June 16 > 
INFO~ATION M"EETING 
"'7'ednesday, l.Vlarch 7 Thursday, l.Vlarch 8 
7:00 Pl.VI
t 
LOCATION: ROOM 131 DEBARTOLO 
(Those interested in Surnnier 2003 are also invited) 

Or call 1-5203 (International Studies Office) for an application and ram information

} 
r 
Friday, March 2, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Oklahoma, Virginia execute 2 
"I want to say I'm glad I'm
• Clayton becomes 
leaving this place and I'm
9th inmate to die in going to a better place," Clayton said in his final
Oklahoma in 2001 
statement. "I love my family and I'm sorry for this other 
Associated Pres., 
lady that was killed ... You're still killing an inno­McALESTER. Okla. 
cent man." Oklahoma executed a man 
Prosecutors said that after 
by injection Thursday after Timmons rejected Clayton's
DNA tests con­firmed his guilt in a woman's murder. 
Also Thursday, a Virginia man was executed by injection for killing another man with a 
baseball  bat  
during  a  rob­ 
bery.  

Robert William Clayton of Tulsa, Okla., had been 
scheduled to die twu months 
Thomas Akers was the first ago, but a court ruled he inmate this year to be exe­could pursue DNA tests. cuted in his state. The tests indicated he In a lengthy final state­killed 19-year-old Hhonda ment, Akers expressedTimmons. remorse for the 1998 beating 
advances. he fractured
"/ love my family and her skull, 
I'm sorry for this stabbed hes 12 times and
other lady that was 
strangled
killed ... You 're still 
her with her killing an bathing suit top.
innocent man." 
Clayton was the Robert William Clayton ninth inmate 
executed inmate put to death in Oklahoma this year. In Virginia, 
death of 24-year-old Wesley Smith of Roanoke. 
"I thank the Lord Jesus Christ for coming into my life," Akers said. "I love all of my family with all of my ­heart." 
Prusecutors said Akers and his cousin, Timmy Martin, told Smith they were taking him out on the town but instead took him to a rural area where thev choked him with a belt and beat him beyond recognition. 
Akers pleaded guilty to capital murder and robbery and told Judge William Alexander that if he didn't get the death penalty, he would kill again and it would be Alexander's fault. 
In an appeal, defense lawyers said Akers had tried to kill himself several times and suffers from major depression and a dysfunction of his central nervous sys­tem. 
Martin pleaded guilty to second-degree murder and was sentenced to life in prison. 
MBA distance learning ranked 1st nationally 
By GEOFF BRODIE 
News Wrircr 
With only five years under its belt, the Executive MBA dis­tan ce-1 oarnin g program at Notre Dame could still be con­sidered in its growing stages. 
But since its start in 1995, growing doesn't seem to be an issue for the program. 
The never-end­ing improvements made in technolo­gy and high speed communication has left the pro­gram with state­of-the-art equip­ment to go along with its top national ranking. 
The program 
was ranked the best in the phones and other equipment.nation by the U.S. Distance This allows for real time inter­
Learning Association that now action between off-campus stu­presents a very tough question dents and faculty and students 
Now's the time ... 

to finish your degree at BETHEL COLLEGE 
• Attend accelerated classes 
• 
Advance your career 

• 
ReaJize your dreams 


• Focus on values 
Call Today~ 
219-257-3350 or 800-422-4251 adultprograms@bethel-i11.edu 
Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester 
,:-within Minutes of Campus'~ 
-Renovated, spacious one and two 
bedroom apartments,  some  with lofts.  
-Includes membership in the  new  
Castle Point Racquet Club  
and Fitness Center.  

to the University: How does one make the best even better? 
Based upon a high-tech video conferencing system, the EMBA distar~ce learning pro­gram links classrooms on cam­p us to specially equipped rooms at four sites off campus. Executives in or near Chicago, 
"No matter how much one talks about having an integrated classroom, distance learning lacks the personal touch." 
Edward Trubac 
associate dean, 
Indianapolis, and Toledo are able to earn an MBA from Notre Dame without leaving their jobs and fami­lies. The class­rooms have high-speed T­l communica­
tion lines con­nected to 
Mendoza College of Business tracking cam­eras, video monitors, wireless micro­
on campus. 
Newly added by Bill Brewster, the college's director of technology, is a multi-point conferencing unit. Through advanced T-1 routing tech­niques, the unit is able to con­nect more than two sites together in a single video con­ference as well as show all cl_assrooms from any site, on or off campus. 
The main drawback to the program. however, seems to be in the name itself. The "dis­tance" between professor and student leaves little room for personal attention and rela­tionships to form. 
"No matter how much one talks about having an integrat­ed classroom, distance learning lacks the personal touch," said associate dean Edward Trubac. 
Trubac plans to lessen the effect of this problem by visit­ing the off-campus classrooms as many times as possible dur­ing a semester. Students at these off-campus locations seem to welcome the visits as it closes distance gaps through interaction with administrators from the host university. 
"Ed's visit showed a real con­
cern by the University for off­
campus students," said student 
Larry Mitzman. "There are a 
lot of tangible and intangible 
benefits that can be gained by 
doing this two to three times a 
year." 
Do you like 
to write? Do 
you have a 
nose for news? 
Call us at 
631-5323. 
page 8 Friday, March 2, 2001
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Lawyers offer to drop charges against .Rich 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
New Ynrk prosncutors offered to drop lhe heaviest charges against fugitive financier Marc Hich and let him slay free on bail if he 
returned to America, according to an e-mail released Thursday by Hcpub­licans who 

argue that Clinton B i I I Clinton's pardon of Hich was undeserved. 
The Manhattan U.S. attorney's oflico offered to drop a federal racketeering charge if Rich returned to face the other charges, Rich attorney Robert Fink said in an e-mail in February 2000 to Avner Azulay, ex-chief of Israel's spy agency. Azulay collected testimonials from prominent Israelis in sup­port of the pardon issued by then-President Clinton on his last day in ollice. 
"They would also agree in advance on bail, etc., so that he would not be incarcerated pend­ing trial -although he would have to surrender his passport," Fink wrote. 
Jack Quinn, the lawyer who 
pursued the pardon for Rich, 
told congressional investigators 
earlier this month that prosecu­
tors had refused to negotiate the 
case for the past decade. Quinn 
also said the charges under the 
Hacketeer Influenced and 
Corrupt Orianizations Act were 
"a sledgehammer" and one rea­
son why Rich refused to return. 
In his defense of the pardon, 
Clinton has argued civil rather 
than criminal charges should 
have hmm brouuht a1rninst Rich in the first place. 
The new e-mail was in a stack of documents released at the start of the llouse Government Heforrn Committee's hearing where llouse members were to hear about Clinton's pardons from throe or the f"ormer presi­dent's closest aides. 
"'Mr. Quinn has been telling us that this 'IUCO sledgehammer' was what forced Mr. Rich to flee the country," said the committee chairman. Hep. Dan Burton, R­ind. "Now it looks like that's not accurate." 
Beth Dozoretz, a former l'inance director of the Democratic National Committee, told the House committee Thursday she would refuse to answer their questions. 
"Upon the advice of my coun­seI, I respectfully decline to answer that question based on the protection afforded me under the United States Constitution," Dozoretz said. When asked if she would give the same answer to all the ques­tions, she replied: "That will be my response to all questions." 
Dozoretz is a friend of Rich's ex-wife, Denise, and pledged to raise $1 million for Clinton's presidential library. Denise Rich contributed $450,000 to the library foundation, $1.1 million to the Democratic Party and at least $109,000 to Hillary Rodham Clinton's Senate cam­paign. 
Her lawyers on Monday told 
the committee she would invoke 
her constitutional right against 
self-incrimination but committee 
Republicans forced her to 
appear in person to tell them. 
Denise Rich was allowed to 
refuse to testify without appear­
ing before the committee. 
"This is a personal privilege 
that must be exercised by the 
individual. not through counsel." 
Burton said. . 
IMMEDIATE PART-TIME JOB 
OPPORTUNITY AVAILABLE! 
Part-time position ( l O hours/week) offers great opportunity to work on entrepreneurial endeavors and gain valuable work experience at this unique parish. 
$7.50/hour 
Responsibilities include: 1) maintaining contact with entrepreneurs involved and with coordinator ofwebsite that describes these endeavors, 2) suggesting and coordinating development ofthe website, and 3) encouraging and supporting new and existing local entrepreneurs involved in the Broadwaytownsqua re.com project. Broadway Christian Parish, South Bend, is a community-based parish that provides microloans and business assistance to local entn:prcneurs in their traditionally disenfranchised community. Website provides coordination ofthese endeavors. 
Contact Jessica McManus (631-9182) for information 
Cosimo's Hair Salon welcomes 
Rebecca Bryant 
specializing in great haircuts, expert color and highlighting. 
Student discounts now available. 
Open Mon-Sot 8am-6pm 
Located near campus at 1 707 South Bend Ave (US 23) Call now and ask for Rebecca Walk-ins welcome 
FBI expands polygraph test 
. Officials hope lie detector tests will prevent espionage 
Associatt:d Press 
WASHINGTON 
The FBI is expanding employ­ee lie-detector tests and moni­toring of worker access to sen­sitive information in response to allegations that a veteran counterintelligence agent spied for Moscow for 15 years. 
Attorney General John Ashcroft said Thursday there is evidence that polygraphs do not always work to deter internal security breaches. But he said that "because of the national the very important conse­quences of the breaches, that we should elevate the use of polygraph in certain cases," said Ashcro~. 
The FBI would not comment. 
The FBI also is changing the way it audits access to informa­tion to catch workers who improperly seek data, Ashcrof'l said. 
FBJ agents are given poly­graph tests when they apply to join the bureau but usually are not tested again unless they need a higher level of clear­ance. Justice Department offi­cials said that policy would be expanded; they declined to elaborate. 
Ashcroft said the additional polygraphs are an interim step 
security involved," he and f B l Director L o u i s F r e e h agreed that more p O 1 y ­graphs should be conducted following the arrest of Robert 
"The director and I have agreed that because ofthe national security involved and the very important consequences ofthe breaches, that we should evaluate the use ofpolygraph in certain cases." 
John Ashcroft Attorney General 
while the FBI's inter­nal security procedures a r e reviewed by former CIA and FBI direc­tor William Webster, who will recom­mend how to tighten security. 
Philip Hanssen, a 25-year vet­eran agent accused of spying for Russia and the Soviet Union. 
"There have been cases in the past that polygraphing did not work on," Ashcroft said at a news conference. "Nevertheless, I believe that there are applications for poly­graph that are important." 
"The director and I have 
agreed that because of the 
national security involved and 
Meanwhile, federal prosecu­tors asked a judge to keep Hanssen jailed pending further action orr his case. 
In a proffer filed Thursday in 
U.S. District Court in Alexandria, Va., the govern­ment said the risk that Hanssen will flee the country and the gravity of his alleged crimes mean that he should not be released. 
"No conditions of release will reasonably assure either his appearances in court or the safety of our country," accord­ing to the filing signed by U.S. Attorney Helen Fahey. 
Among the evidence cited to support its request. the FBI said it had recovered statements from llanssen's Swiss bank account and. letters in which the Russians and llanssen allegedly discuss bow to hide money in a Swiss bank account. 
The FBI alleged that, in exchangr for providing top secret information, llanssen had received more than $600,000 in cash and dia­monds, and an additional $800,000 had been set aside for him in an overseas escrow account. 
Investigators also found in locked safes in IJanssen 's 0111cc at the State Department a file entitled "Russian Espionage" containing 20 to 30 documents on Felix 13loch and a sensitive classified technical intelligence collection program, an affidavit showed. 
The FBI has alleged that Hansson tipped off the KGB to the FBI's secret investigation of Bloch, a foreign service agent suspected of spying for Moscow in 1989, but never arrested. 
A detention and preliminary hearing were scheduled for Monday. Federal prosecutors and Hanssen's attorney have asked a federal magistrate to postpone the hearing until May 21 to allow both sides more time to prepare the case. 
Both sides agree that the 
facts of the.:case "are unusual 
and complex." 
They also agreed to ask for 
an extension of Lime for tiling 
an indictment until May 21. 

We do Mondays like no place else. Enjoy a double order of faji1'as (enoush for fwo) for jusf $11!* 

Friday, March 2, 200 l 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS · page 9 
Combs takes stand in his own defense 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Sean "Puffy" Combs took the witness stand Thursday to declare that he had never packed a weapon or offered a $50,000 bribe on the night three people were shot inside a Manhattan hip-hop club. 
The rap impresario, owner of a $300 million rewrd label and clothing line, calmly told the jury that he believed the bullets ricocheting through Club New York on Dec. 27, 1999, were intended for bim. 
"I thought I was being shot at," said Combs, who was with fellow rapper The Notorious 
B.I.G. minutes before his mur­der in 1997. "My hands wore up.... Everybody started falling all over each other." 
Facing up to 15 years in prison on weapons and bribery charges, Combs detailed the chaos after the shooting inside the club near Times Square as he headed for the exit with his then-girlfriend. the top-selling singer Jennifer Lopez. 
Once Combs finished. the defense rested its case without calling Lopez to the stand. The pop diva never appeared in the courtroom. 
Dressed in a dark, conserva­tive suit as he has been each day or the trial. Combs exchanged bear hugs with his lawyers, Benjamin Brafman and Johnnie Cochran, after his testimony. 
The rapper then walked into the audience to hug his mother and aunts before a fan present­ed him with a single red rose. In the gallery to provide suport was rapper Dwight "Heavy D" Myers. 
Combs, 31, and bodyguard Anthony "Wolr' Jones, 34, are charged with two counts of weapons possession and one count of bribery. Prosecutors say one gun was found in Combs' Lincoln Navigator SUV, while a second was thrown from its window as Combs fled the club. 
A member of Combs'entourage, rapper Jamal "Shyne" Barrow, is accused of attempted murder for allegedly 

shooting and wounding
the three people in the club. Prosecution wit­nesses have testified that Combs pulled a gun as well, an assertion contra­dicted by defense wit­nesses. 
Combs' testimony, the most highly anticipated moment in the case, packed the seventh-floor courtroom, mostly with reporters. 
Debate over putting him on the stand had started before the trial began Jan. 29. 
Combs opened his testi­mony with a friendly introduction under ques­tioning from Brafman. He answered questions about his business and his nickname, and men­tioned his mother, who has been a faithful com­panion in court each day. 
Puffy and h"1s pals 
Sean "Puffy" Combs took the witness stand today during his much celebrated trial. The singer is charged with two counts of gun possession and bribery stemming from his involvement in a shooting incident at the Club New York on Dec. 27, 1999. 
Matthew "Scar" Allen A guest at the club that night who allegedly screamed obscenities to Combs and threw money at him, sparking the 
melee. 
Jamal "Shyne" Barrow 
Comb's protegee is charged with three counts of attempted murder for allegedly opening fire and shooting three people that night. 
Anthony "Wolf" Jones 
Comb's bodyguard is charged with two counts of gun possession. 
Wardell Fenderson 
Comb's driver alleges that he was offered $50,000 by the singer to take the blame for the gun possession charges. 
Jennifer Lopez 
The then-girlfriend of Combs accompanied him to the nightclub. The singer-actress is not charged with any crime and has not been called to testify. 

Ho flatly denied that he had a weapon at anytime the night of the shooting. He did the same when asked about the charge that he had offered hired driver Wardell Fenderson a bribe to spare prosecution on a gun charge. 
"Did you offer Fenderson $50,000?" asked Brafman. "Absolutely not," Combs replied. 
Under cross-examination, prosecutor Matthew Bogdanos suggested that Combs had just finished a well-rehearsed per­formance. Combs acknowl­edged spending about 5 1/2 hours with his attorney in the last two days and that during those sessions some of the same questions asked in court were posed to him. 
Combs also agreed, under 
questioning by Bogdanos, that he had no personal relationship with Fenderson before the shooting. Yet in the days after the shooting, Combs acknowl­edged, he made several calls to Fenderson. 
"He sounded distraught and devastated," said Combs, pre­senting his calls as a humani­tarian gesture. "I was giving him words of support." 
Boyfriend of Bush's daughter arrested 
Jenna was arrested at a frater­Anderson said. 
Associated Press 
nity party and released several Held at the county jail, hours later to a man whom Bridges was intoxicated and
FORT WORTH, Texas deputies believed to be a loudly insisted that he was dat­A college student claiming Secret Service agent, a sheriff ing Bush's daughter, Anderson
to be the boyfriend of 
said Thursday. said. When Bridges was
President Bush's daughter 
White House officials and allowed to make a phone call, 
he talked a few minutes and then handed the phone to a sergeant, who said a young woman on the line identified herself as Jenna Bush, Anderson said. 
"She just asked when he could be released," Anderson said. "No one asked for any special favors whatsoever." 
Bridges, who was cited for public intoxication and under­age possession of alcohol, was released after four hours of detention. 
March 2, 2001 
Dear Notre Dame Students, 
This weekend,March 2 and March 3, the University will host approximately 800 members of The Edward Frederick Sorin Society, a financ1al support group for Notre Dame. Made up of alumni, parents, and friends, this generous crowd gathers once every other year for what we call "A Weekend of Recognition," an effort on the University's part to say thank-you for all that they do for Notre Dame. The group is responsible, for example, for funding $2.2million annually in e:xpendible scholarships. They have also supported a variety of campus improvements. 
During the weekend there will be several events,a couple of which will, unfortunately, inconvienience your usual schedule. In particular, on Saturday evening we will hold our closing even, a dtnner, in the North Dining Hall. As a result, those who normally eat in the North Dining Hall are asked to use the South Dining Hall for Saturday dinner. 
On behalf of the Sorin Society, please accept our sincere 
gratitude for your great cooperation. Special r,hanks too, to all students participating in the weekend -the event simply would not occur without you. 
Kathleen M. Web1J Executtve Director 
The Edward Frederick Sorin Society 
Secret Service spokesman Tony Ball refused to comment. 
"We're not making any com­ments about this incident," said Noelia Rodriguez, a spokeswoman for first lady Laura Bush in Washington. 
William Ashe Bridges, an 18­year-old Texas Christian University freshman, was jailed early Sunday after law officers arrested him at a house near the campus, Tarrant County Sheriff Dee 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER f riday, March 2, 200 I 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. llo• Q. Noire Dame. IN 46556 024 Somh Oiniug Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EUITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NlWS EDITOR, Anne Marie Maningly YIEWl'OINT EDITOII: Lila HJughey 
SroRT, EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCl!Nl EDITOR: Amanda Greco 
SAINT MARY'S EmTOR: Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR, Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGF.R: Kimberly Springer Al, DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 
S~71'.MS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville Wf.B ADMINl!ffRATOR: AJ.im Turner CoNTkOLUR: liob Woods 
GRAPHICS EmTOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OH'ICE MANAGF.KIGlNERAI. INF0..............631-7471 FAX................................ .........................631-6927 ADVlRTISING.....................................63!-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnR/Assr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoin1.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCF.NE.........................................................63 l-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS....... ..........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobi,roer. 11drd11 for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, revi-,ws and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudenr reviews 
online featureS for spe­
advertise for policies 
and r:ues of prinr ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer 
archives to search for 
to meet the editors and 
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily n,wspaper published in prim and online by rhe srudems of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governd by policies of the administration of either instirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisrant Managing Ediror and department editors. Commenwie,;, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necc=rily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters i. cncourag,,d. Leners ro the E&ror must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qu,itio111 rrgJrdi11g Obsmttr pot.des ,hou/,i be direct­ed to £ii1or in Chief M ikr Connolly. 
Media should accept all body weights 
At the end of Body Image Awareness trum. while leaving little acknowledge­week, after assessing all the gains we ment for the middle ground where have made in changing our self-con­most people fall has not compensated ceptions, it is important to realize how for the prevalent social acceptance of much society still has thin models. to change. The forum The media, a force in with the greatest OJhe society that Notre Dame
userver
amount of' changes to history professor Gail make is the media. Bederman refers to as The media have estab­"encompassing" and "per­
Editorial 
lished body style vasive," fail to accept or trends throughout his-display mid-range weight tory, supporting and rejecting certain groups. While heavier celebrities Drew body types and deciding what weight is Carey, Catherine Mannheim and Rosie acceptable for women and men. Their O'Donnell have been accepted and sup­current support of impossibly perfect ported in their careers. entertainment body images has become far too cultur­television has focused on the weight ally accepted. Combating unhealthily struggles of Oprah Winfrey and Rikki thin body images with support for body Lake. While the extremely thin and types on the opposite sides of the spec• overweight are embraced by the public. 
the average body type has been ignored. The media should address such weight image disparities. Instead of merely supporting one extreme or the other. magazines, television. adver­tisements and the news media should support all sizes and shapes. With the acceptance of all body types in the puh­lic spotlight. Americans of all ages will gain a more healthy concept of their own bodies. 
In addition, promoting more typical body types as attractive will lead us tu find ourselves as equally appealing as the models and images the media pre­sent. 
Evaluating Bush's first speech 
This writer gives "Dubya" a B grade on his first address to Congress. I almost fell into the trap of expecting so little, then becoming so surprised at his perfor­mance that I blindly awarded a grade above its merit. Instead, I stuck to the rigorous academic standards embodied in the Notre Dame class­room. 
Overall. Bush's per­formance was one of balance, embodied most when he said, "An artist using sta­tistics as a brush could paint two very different pictures of our country. One would have warning signs: increasing lay­offs, rising energy prices, too many fail­ing schools, persistent poverty. the stub­born vestiges of racism. Another picture would be full of blessings: a balanced budget, big surpluses, a military that is second to none, a country at peace with its neighbors. technology that is revolu­tionizing the world and our greatest strength, concerned citizens who care for our country and for each other." 
Yet the speech was full of irony, begin­ning with the fact that none of the five Supreme Court justices who voted for Bush attended. For Democrats, the irony included the thought that only a set of unusual circumstances paved the way for Bush to become president. They included mimicking Bill Clinton's brilliant political strategies while exploiting his pathetic personal weaknesses. 
Democrats found irony in Bush's cam­paign to return civility to Washington when it had existed between the political parties for decades in Congress until Republican Newt Gingrich began his nuclear combat. It is easy now for Bush when his party controls the White House and both houses of Congress. One should expect many accomplishments since Democrats do not engage in Gingrich's mortal combat. 

Democrats on the House floor sighed when Bush said, "Let us agree to bridge old divides. But let us also agree that our good will must be dedicated to great goals. Bipartisanship is more than mind­ing our manners. It is doing our duty." 
Many chuckled in the House chamber when the President said, "Together, we are changing the tone of our nation's capitol. And this spirit of respect and cooperation is vital -because in the end, we'll be judged by what we are able to accomplish." 
This week, Bush's success lies in a technique perfected by President Clinton, what former Clinton strategist Jack Morris calls "triangulation." Triangulation occurs when a politician uses his opponents' issues along with his own issues to place himself somewhere outside of both parties. Thus the three points, or triangle, on the political scale. 
While some see it as stealing the other party's thunder, it is good politics. Bush cannot fail for simply co-opting the other party's thoughts and beliefs. Triangulation is the loophole of political persuasion. 
Early in his speech, Bush spoke of many traditional Democratic issues such as prescription drug coverage, a patient's bill of rights, Social Security and Medicare. Later he mentioned traditional Republican beliefs such as ending the inheritance tax and support of faith­based initiatives. Bush played to both sides when he referred to religious orga­nizations by saying, "Government should welcome these groups to apply for funds, not discriminate against them. Government cannot be replaced by chari­ties or volunteers. Government should not fund religious activities." 
Bush chastised Congress, implying that he was on neither side when he said, "Year after year in Washington, budget debates seem to come down to an old, tired argument: on one side, those who want more government. regardless of the cost; on the other, those who want less government, regardless of the need." 
But with last year's Republican con­trolled Congress stuffing all the pork in last year's budget, Democrats shook their heads when Bush said, "Last year, gov­ernment spending shot up 8 percent. That's far more than our economy grew, far more than personal income grew and far more than the rate of inflation." 
Democrats sec Bush as triangulating on the budget by proposing a 4 percent increase this year. His desire to increase military spending and to resurrect the so­called "Star Wars" missile defense pro­gram seem to skew the surplus numbers when added to his massive tax cut. When the details are presented in April. we will finally see how his budget puzzle fits together. 
But for now Bush successfully triangu­lated the tax cut proposals by saying, "Some say my tax plan is too big, others say it is too small. 1 respectfully disagree. This plan is just right." Some believe that Bush will ultimately accept a smaller tax cut but call it a victory if he can fit his other priorities into the equation. 
Thinking back to late 1999 when Bush used focus groups to formulate his tax cut in anticipation of Steve Forbes and his flat tax proposal, Democrats also laughed when Bush said, "l didn't throw darts at a board to come up with a num­ber for tax relief. 1 did not take a poll or develop an arbitrary formula that might sound good. I looked at problems in the tax code and calculated the cost to fix them." 
Yeah, right, and Oprah is the Queen of England! 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, served in President Clinton ·s administration as a Congressional and public affairs direc­tor. His column appears every other Friday. and his Internet address is llottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
l"\ANAGEMENT TRAINING ~ 
I ADMIT IT DOESN'T
1---------------t"i 
SEEM VERY SPECIAL
TIM WILL DEMONSTRATE 
l 
WHEN YOU KNOW
THE l"\ANAGEMENT CLOAK 
V 
HOW IT'S DONE.
OF INVISIBILITY. 
1 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Surround yourself with the best people you can find, delegate authority and don't interfere. " 
Ronald Reagan former president 

IEWPOINT 
Friday, March 2, 2001 OBSERVER 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Statue reflects school's Catholic character 
I am writing this letter in response to the letter submitted by Jocelyn Szczepaniak­Gillece regarding the statue of Mary dedi­cated to abortion victims outside the Basilica. The letter was an attack on the University's character and the uniqueness that makes Notre Dame the plac1>. it is today. 
I think it is important to keep in mind that Notre Dame is a highly regarded Catholic institution that upholds the belief's of the Catholic Church. While it is important to support women in our community who have endured the hardship of an abortion, it is equally important to remember the lives of the aborted victims. 
Should Notre Dame remove the cross from the Basilica or the statue of Jesus from God Quad simply because all students are not of the Catholic faith? I think not. Notre Dame stands as a proud, Catholic universi­ty. We as a community can not deny the University's heritage. 
As for the question of whether or not Ms. Szczepaniak-Gillece can be proud of her degree. I'll say the following. Be proud in knowing thai you attended one of the finest University's in the nation. Be proud that your alma mater's traditions and Catholic roots will ensure that future generations will benefit from an education at Notre Dame. 
Chris Neid.linger 
class of '97 Indianapolis, IN March 1, 2001 

This letter is in response to a letter that was printed in Tuesday's edition of The Observer entitled. "Political correctness taken too far." We agree that political correctness is sometimes taken too far on our campus. 
However, the main issue of the letter is what the author perceived as the wrongful confiscation of the T-shirts that were pur­chased for this year's O'Neill Mardi Gras cel­ebration. Although we are not going to address the political correctness or incorrect­ness of the original submitted design, we would like to point out that not all of the men of O'Neill Hall support the content of the shirt. 
We do, however, wish to address the unjus­tified degradation of our rector and the Office of Student Affairs. To be kind to the writer of the letter we are addressing, we are assum­ing that he wrote his letter without complete knowledge of the facts of the situation. Here are some other facts that should be men­tioned. 
The first T-shirt design was the one described by the author of the earlier printed letter ("The T-shirts in question had the slo­gan, 'Show Us Something!' on the back, with a picture of a large beaver wearing a Mardi Gras hat and beads."}. Contrary to the letter's claim, this design was never accepted by our rector. 
Because the T-shirt was deemed inappro­priate, the committee in charge of Mardi Gras festivities was asked to come up with 
'01 
alternative designs, which they did. It was 
one of these alternative designs that was 
approved and accepted. Our rector was 
under the assumption that the alternative T­
shirt design that was accepted would be the 
design sent to the T-shirt maker. 
However, instead of submitting the accept­ed design to the T-shirt maker. the commit­tee submitted the rejected design. When the T-shirts arrived and our rector recognized this deception, he confiscated the T-shirts. 
On a side note, these T-shirts have not gone to "those less fortunate than us [who] are impervious to being offended." In fact, those T-shirts have been donated to an overseas charity where the people who arc receiving these shirts wouJd have no concept ofthe implied meaning. These people are probably just glad to have another piece of clothing. 
At the risk of sounding redundant, we hope that these facts have cleared the name of our rector. We also suggest that in the future. the authors of any letter make sure they have collected all of the facts regarding their issue before sounding off and attacking someone else's reputation and good name. 
Bill Lafleur and Walter Pruchnik freshmen Mike Scharpf, Charlie DeRubeis and Patrick Miller sophomores O'Neill Hall March 1, 2001 
Love justifies distance 
When I was reading Wednesday's column regarding long-distance relationships, I wondered what provoked the author to write it. It is obvious that Mr. Long has neither been scarred by an attempted long­distance relationship nor ever exposed to how great a successful one can be. 
I have been dating my boyfriend who goes to school at Marquette University for two years. We start­ed dating the last month of our senior year of high school after being good friends for two years. I never dreamed that I would go off to college with a boyfriend. I never wanted-"strings." I wanted to be free to do whatever I wanted. But then something happened -I fell in love. 
My relationship with Brad has helped make me who I am today, and I would not give it up for any­thing in the world. The distance bas taught us to truly communicate and has made us realize how much we want to be together. I cannot imagine being with anyone else nor would I ever want to be. 
I agreed with the column when it talked about driveling phone con­versations being a hassle and an annoyance for roommates -but what if your conversations aren't like that? If all that a conversation consists ofis reassuring a signifi­cant other of your love for them, then of course the relationship is going to fail. 
Another statement made by the author that I didn't agree with is that "it's hard to stay intimate with a significant other when there is no physical contact." Since when does intimacy only include sexual con­tent? 
Some of the most intimate moments in life can be a deep con­versation, a powerful moment or a simple look shared by two souls. Sexual intimacy is part of a rela­tionship, but it is not what a rela­tionship is founded upon. If it is, then that relationship is doomed to fail -whether it is long distance or with the girl next door. 
This same objection applies to the "ability to get the same thing next door" reasoning the author used to explain the impending doom of long distance relation­ships. Ifa relationship is true love, and has true intimacy, there is no way to replace that with just any­one. 
I am not saying that long distance relationships are for everyone or are by any measure easy. They require a lot of hard work and heartache. However, the minute that you are together and you get to look into the eyes of the person you love, you know that all that work was worth it. 
Jennifer Lynch 
sophomore 
Walsh Hall 
March I, 2001 
Women's basketball ticket distribution needs reform 
Monday morning I waited in line to purchase tickets to the women's NCAA Basketball Regionals first round games. The fact that there are few tickets left to these games and what students need to do to get them has not been well advertised. 
Monday was also the first day to purchase season tickets to next year's women's basketball games. From what I have gathered from the past season ticket holders in line and the staff in my department interested in season tickets, this also has not been well advertised. 
I waited an hour with the few past season ticket holders, who luckily saw forms for season tickets at the Georgetown game, while two women in the front of the line pur­chased whole rows and sections of seats. It is not a good sign when someone walks up to the ticket win­dow and says, "I want these tickets row by row by row." 
It was even more disturbing that at least one of these people seemed good buddies with some of the staff in the back office. Something looked rotten in the state of Denmark. 

I would hope that the Fiesta Bowl mentality, "It's not whether you win or lose, but how much you take in at the till," is not invading the women's athletics program also. 
It is my hope that the athletic department would make a better effort to alert the season ticket hold­ers, staff and students about ticket distribution. To that aim I suggest, because of the contradictory infor­mation I have received, that the ath­letic department take out an adver­tisement in The Observer or write a letter explaining to the students how the NCAA women's tourna­ment ticket distribution will work. 
In the future, it would seem rea­sonable that season ticket-holders and staff should be notified in advance of upcoming season ti.cket sales. 
I would also suggest that the number oftickets purchased by an individual would be limited to a rea­sonable number, such as fifteen, and a closer scrutiny of the large ticket orders be made. 
The community has strongly sup­ported women's basketball in the past and recently the student sup­port has increased also. It would be a tragedy if long time season ticket holders and students were turned off by those hoping to make a quick buck on the team's success. 
James Hogan 
Notre Dame biology department February 28, 200 I 

Fri., March 2, 2002 Evening Concert Block -Washington Hall: (Fee) 
All tha
. 7:30 p.m. Central Michigan University Jazz Lab I
fJ fJ
. 8:15 p.m. Boise State University Jazz Ensemble 
. 9:00 p.m. Southern Illinois University Special Projects Ensemble 
. 9:45 p.m. Lawrence University Jau Quintet 
. 10:30 p.m. University of Texas -Brownsville Jazz Band I 


This weekend, Notre Dame hosts showcasing Jazz band talent 
University. University of Texas­By LAURA KELLY Brownsville. University of Northern Associate Scene Editor Iowa, Northern Illinois University, 
Loyola University-New Orleans and 
Last October, a mailing about Notre Florida State University. Dame's Collegiate Jazz Festival was "Usually [the bands) come from the sent out to 400 college jazz bands Midwest, but this year it's more across the country. By December, 34 national." said Krivickas. "We were 
of them had writ• mindful of this when we picked the 
ten back, submit­bands." ting an audition Many of the bands are making their tape and informa­first appearance at the festival. "We 
tion about their have a lot of new groups this year," band. said Wiskirchen. "Old groups. run into Amidst the rush schedule conflicts or problems with before winter budgets, so the result is newer groups who haven't been to the festival
break. this year's festival director, before." 
Paul Krivickas, There are a few noticeable absences -namely Western Michigan, whose
and faculty advi­strong jazz program faced scheduling
sor Fr. George 
problems for the first time this year.
Wiskirchen, C.S.C., sat down and lis­As a result, Wiskirchen said the festi­
tened closely to each tape. They con­sidered their decision carefully, talking val should be full of surprises. 
"I have no idea who's going to be an
over the strengths of each ensemble. 
outstanding group," said Wiskirchen.
They finally chose nine bands (the 
"We can presume10th being one of Florida State will
Notre Dame's own) Collegiate Jazz Festival 
have a very fine
to be a part of the ' -~•group based on
Universitv's 43rd 
· what t.4,cy've done
jazz festival. . Washington Hall 
in the pa:st:"
This year's
Collegiate Jazz . Fri., March 2 and Sat., March 3 "I haven't heard 
Festival boasts . Pricing (tickets available at the door): ; · from Loyla University jn New
groups from across 
Orleans in about 25
the nation, including Friday evening performances: 
years, so it should
bands representing Students: $4, Non-students: $8 
be interesting to
Central Michigan University, Boise Saturday evening performances: see what they're 
doing," Wiskirchen
State University, Students: $2, Non-students: $5 
said. "OtherSouthern Illinois 
[groups] are here
University, All-festival pass: 
for the first time
Lawrence Students: $5, Non-students: $12 
and may end up inter­

being more esting and exciting." 
"That's part of the interest in the festival," said Wiskirchen. "Jazz is a constantly changing thing." 
The "CJF," as it is known in jazz cir­cles around the ·country, was founded by students in 1959 and has been a student-run operation ever since. Wiskirchen, its faculty advisor since 1972, sites this student involvement as one of the festival's strengths. 
"From the beginning, the faculty 
advisor was just there to help out, to 
give whatever advice was needed, to 
provide contacts and experiential 
knowledge," said Wiskirchen. 
Yet these contacts he refers to have 
done more than help out student 
organizers -indeed, Wiskirchcn's 
connections have helped draw top 
jazz musicians to the festival as 
judges. 
"Fr. Wiskirchcn is amazing," said 
Krivickas. "He knows everything 
there is to know about jazz -he's a 
legend here." 
As student director, Krivickas is in 
charge of assembling the festival's 
judges. "Whenever I mention 
[Wiskirchen's) name, people recog­
nize him," Krivickas said. "lle's 
known all over in the jazz communi­
ty." 
Among the judges who were drawn 
to the CJF this year, either by connec­
tions through Wiskirchcn or an 
appreciation for the festival's quality 
and success, all are well-known pro· 
fessional musicians, according to 
Krivickas. "There arc even a few 
Grammy nominees in the group," 


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 2, 2001 
Irish, Huskies on collision course for title game 

ByTIM CASEY 
As,istant Sporrs Fditor 
Sincn Notn~ Damn stunnnd Connecticut on Jan. 15, both lf\lllllS have pointed towards tho Big Ii.1st Championships. Provided Urn two top seeds win two morn ganrns, a rPmatch would occur on Tuesday night heforn thn usual sell-out crowd al Camµel Pavilion, the lluskies honw floor. 
Think Geno Auriemma is looking forward f'or another shot at tlm Irish'? 
Following his team's loss at tho .Joyce C1111tflr, Auriemrna voicod his squad's dilemmas. 
"I think our tnam is surprised when teams actually play real­ly. rr.ally good against us," Auriflmma said. "That's how immature some of our players are. Th1iy would rather phone alHH\d and say 'By the way. here we come and we would likn the score to be 52-30 at halftime so could you please go along with that?' And when ii doesn't go like that, we're not quite suro how to deal with it this year. That's the crux of what we're going through right now." 
Due to that loss, Connecticut (25-2 overall, 15-1 in the Big East) enters the conference tournament as the No. 2 seed. Notre Dame ( 26-1 overall, 15-1 in the Big East) is the top seed and opens up on Sunday at 
2:00. The Irish play the winner of Saturday's game between (;eorgetown and Syracuse. 
Notre Dame beat Georgetown 65-53 on Feb. 24 in its final home game and defeated Syracuse 75-61 on Feb. 14 in New York. Both squads are led by All-Conference guards ­Gnorgntown's Katie Smrcka­DuITy is second in the league in scoring with 16. 7 points per gamo. And Syracuse's Both llecord is avoraging 13.3 points pc1r ganrn, good for 11th in the Big East. 
"They both have some out­standing post players and they both have a great guard," coach Muffot McGraw said. "They have multiple players who playnd very well against us." 
If the Irish win on Sunday, they will play on Monday night at 6 p.m. against No. 4 Virginia Tnch, No. 5 Villanova or No. 12 St. John ·s. Virginia Tech received a bye and plays the winner of the Villanova/St. John's match-up on Sunday. 
As has been the case for most of the year, McGraw will rely on the five starters for the bulk of the minutes. Ruth Riley leads the league in scoring 
0 
8.5 points). blocked shots 

(3.19 per game) and field-goal percentage (63.6 percent) and ranks fourth in rebounds (7.5 per game). 
Niele Ivey will also likely receive All-Big East honors. She has averaged 12.3 points, 
7.04 assists and 2.63 steals per game. 
For the first two games, depending on the score, McGraw wants to give her bench players some playing time. 
''I'd like to keep (the starters) under 30 minutes," McGraw said. "Hopefully we'll be able to spread the time around." 

If they advance to the finals, look for the Irish to stick with five or six players. In the previ­ous Connecticut game, Notre Dame's starters played for 184 of a possible 200 minutes. 
Connecticut, the defending national champions, begins play on Sunday against either Boston College or Miami. In Monday's semifinals, the Huskies will likely face Rutgers. The Scarlet Knights handed the Irish their only loss of the season on Feb. 17 but lost 70-45 to Connecticut on Feb. 14. 
"Hutgers is a great defensive team," McGraw said. "But Connecticut has such good depth. It should be a good game." 
Sizing up the competition 

G. 
LJ 
Connecticut Huskies 
The Huskies only conference loss of the season came at the hands of the Irish on Jan. 15. UConn leading scorer Svetlana Abrosimova (14.4 ppg} is out for the season. Depth is key for lJConn as they have six players averaging over nine points per game. 
Georgetown Hoyas 
Katie Smrcka-IJuffy and Hebekkah Brunson lead the lloyas. Smrcka-Duffy is Georgetown's bas led the Boyas in scoring 16 times this season. Brunson has been the leading scorer in the other 11 games. Georgetown looks to rebound in the tournament from a current three game losing streak. 
Miami Hurricanes 
Junior guard Sheila James led the I lurricanes in scoring four of the last six games. She is averag­ing 10.4 points per contest. On the season, freshman Charivia Broussard leads Miami in scoring with 12.8 a game. In their last meeting, Notre Dame beat Miami 81-43 at the Joyce Center. 
Providence Friars 
.Jen Gombotz is the leading scorer for the Friars at 1lpoints while Monika Roberts averages 
6.2 rebounds. 
Providence ended a three game skid with a 79-74 victory over Syracuse to close out Big East regular season play. 



Rutgers Scarlet Knights 
Vivian Stringer's club dealt Notre Dame its only defeat of the season, 54-53 on Feb.I 7. Tammy Sutton­Brown leads the Scarlet Knights in scoring at 11.8 a game and Tasha Pointer is first on the team in rebound­ing at 5.9 a game. 
Seton Hall Pirates 
Seton Hall is without point guard Naimah Smith, who suffered a torn ACL. Senior forward Arminda Moreno is averaging 15.8 ppg and has been Seton Hall's leading scorer in 18 out of 26 games this season. 
St. John's Red Storm 
Against UConn the Red Storm hit 10 three point bas­kets with Rasheedah Brown nailing three. Brown is the leasing scorer for St. John's at 14.3 ppg. Shehas reached double figures in 23 out of 25 games this season. St. John's hasdropped the last two games of the season to UConn and Virginia Tech. 
VIiianova Wildcats 
The Wildcats have posted 10 conference wins for the first time since the 96-97 season. Senior Brandi Barnes leads tho team in scoring with 14.4 points per game and is second in rebounding with six per con­test. 
Virginia Tech Hokles 
Virginia Tech is led by senior Tere Williams who is averaging 15.2 points on theseason. She is back in the lineup after missing the Providence game with aknee injury. Williams also leads the Hokies in rebounding with 5.2 per game. 
Boston College Eagles 
Junior Becky Gottstein has scored in double figures 14 straight games. Gottstein averages 16.3 ppg and 8.6 rpg both of which pace the team. Boston College is in the midst of a five-game winning streak. 
Syracuse Orangewomen 
The Orangewomen are without point guard Jakia Eruin, who tore her ACL on Feb. 9, which ending her college career. Leading the way for Syracuse is Beth Record, who averages 13.5 points and 6.9 rebounds. 






Friday, March 2, 2001 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Irish seniors savor final weeks together 
. Ivey, Riley, "Imani and T used to come inL h s· d freshman year for the last cou­
ea Y, 1emon an pie of minutes of the game,"Dunbar lead Notre Leahy said. "We totally bonded Dame into Storrs with that." 
Leahy and Hiley worked 
together at adidas camp over By NOAH AMSTADTER the summflr of 2000. Dunbar Assistant Sports Editor has visited Leahy at home in 
Massachusetts. 
Both players traveled to tiny
It was a sunny morning in 
Macy, Ind. to watch as Riley'sWashington. D.C, four years ago high school jersey was retired.
when roommates lmani Dunbar "Ruth lives in the middl(~ ofand :vtcaghan Leahy awoke in nowhere," Leahy said. 
their hotel room. Perhaps a little 
While the quieter and more
too sunny. 
laid-back Leahy, Dunbar and
The two then-freshmen looked Hiley were quickly noticing theirat the clock and realized that 
similarities and becoming
they had missed the team bus to 
friends, the other member of
the airport. Unfortunately, they 
their incoming class, Kelley
didn't even know which airport 
Siemon, was making a new-Dulles or Reagan. 
friend of her own.
They quickly packed, used their daily meal money tu catch On her recruiting visit at 
Notre Dame. Siemon stayed
a cab, and headed out alone into 
with then-freshman Niele Jvey
the city in search of the team. 
and then-sophomore Julie
/\II ended well as they actually Henderson. It was a friendshipbeat the team bus to the airport. 
that remains strong today.
"I think Meaghan turned "I love all the seniors but I
down the volume [of the alarm.] 
think Niele is the one that I have Meaghan thinks I set the alarm the most fun with," Siemon said. 
for p.m. instead of a.m.," 
"Our personalities are prettyDunbar said. "We just missed 
similar and we just end up
the bus.·· 
laughing and just talking a lotFour years later Dunbar and about anything. We're probablyLeahy are regarded as two of the closest ofthe five." 
the unsung leaders on an Irish The friendly senior remem­team rated No. 1 in the confer­
bers being the first member of
ence, and No. 2 in the country, the group to fully immerse her­headed into this weekend's Big 
self in the Notre Dame
East Championships. 
Community.
Although neither player starts "Coming in they had alwaysor is part of the team's seven­kind of called me the character­
player rotation, Irish coach 
istic ONotre Dame Girl,"'
Muffet McGraw doesn't discount Siemon said. "I was really excit­their value. 
ed to be in college and I took
"Jmani is one who hasn't 
advantage of a lot of the thingsplayed a much but the younger college had to offer where manyplayers look at how she leads of my teammates didn't."
from the bench," McGraw said. 
"I went to SYR's and formals.
Leahy has impressed team­
They hesitated a little bit moreE 
mates and coaches with a 
Not that I've grown out of thatunique abili'.:y to laugh at her­at all."
self. "Meaghan is just a lot of fun to The friendship between felt very touched because I real­of us with. She's not a vocal per­double-and even triple-teams. be around," McGraw said. "She Siemon, Ivey and Henderson ized that they looked at me son but she's definitely a leader Ivey can always be counted on might be one of my favorites of 
was put to the test last season. more than just their teammate. that leads by example." to find Siemon on the fast break. 
everybody on the team. She After starting as a freshman and They saw me as a sister and a Siemon provides a balance, "I think I really know exactly 
doesn't feel sorry for herself. a sophomore, Siemon was sent friend." combining where they're going to be at all 
She likes being a member of the to the bench in favor of As for her free­her physical times on the court," Ivey said. "I 
team." Henderson. Despite not starting, throws, Siemon "I love the game of toughness think we've built that type of 
Siemon still averaged close to 20 has seen her with a chemistry with each other over
basketball and I love my
minutes per game. teammates sup­pleasant the past couple of years."
Friendships form 
"That was something that at port her team, so I just want personality. Siemon credits her chemistrySince coming to Notre Dame, first was tough," Siemon said. throughout the "Kelley with Ivey on the fast break to
to be out there."
the two bench players have really a
"But last year was ordeal just has a their common enjoyment of run­forged a bond with an athlete breakout year for Julie. It was "It's complete­positive out­ning the floor. 
who sees much more time on Kelley Siemon
great watching her succeed, so ly a mental thing look on life," "I feel like we've had prettythe floor -All-American center 
it wasn't too hard." for me," Siemon Irish forward McGraw good chemistry ever since we
Huth Hiley. 
said. "When I'm said. "She's came in as freshmen," SiemonThe bond between Leahy and in practice I'm just always said. "Niele and I both like to
Leaders on and off the court
Hiley was forged almost imme­shooting something like 90 per­upbeat." run and get the ball up the floor. 
Each of the Irish seniors hasdiately in the fall of 1997. The cent every single day. They're Not only has Siemon played She likes it when somebody justfaced adversity at some point in two centers struggled to learn always supportive. We just real­through injury and illness, she gets ahead and in front of theher career.
the offense, and the frustration ly support each other." has excelled. In Notre Dame's break so that she can do what
All of the seniors credit one
showed. 
Ivey is widely regarded as the Jan. 15 upset over Connecticut, she likes to do best." 
another in working through
"Ruth and I were two of the emotional leader of the team. Siemon scored 15 points just Riley has gained an ability totheir problems. .
more emotional freshmen," 
She is never shy about showing two days after fracturing her judge her teammates' strengthsSiemon has played since Jan.
Leahy said. "We cried a couple happiness and sadness, both on hand. Tuesday night, she battled and weaknesses, an ability that13 with a fractured bone in herof times." 
and offthe court. a stomach virus and led the she feels has helped the teamhand. Watching Ivey battle back
Soon Riley grasped the 
"I show a lot of emotion off the Irish with 17. succeed.
from her two knee injuriesoffense, and along with it a 
court sometimes and definitely "I love the game of basketball "I think after four years youproved to be an inspiration.
starting spot. But before the 6­on the court," Ivey said. "The and l love my team, so I just just know about any of your"I think that Niele has been
foot-5 center stepped off the 
team looks at me more as the want to be out there," Siemon teammates," Riley said. "You
just the model of fightingbench and into stardom, she 
person who's going to talk and said. "I hope that that attitude know their strengths and prettythrough adversity," Siemon said. 
was able to generate quite a 
get the team pumped up. After can rub off on the younger play-much what they're going to do." 
"She's helped me and I knowreaction on the bench. 
the Rutgers game I had to shed ers." Not to be forgotten, Dunbarthat she's helped other people."
"She has this really high­
a tear." and Leahy claim to have a bondWhen Ivey suffered a torn ACLpitched voice and she used to Riley is less the vocal leader of their own on the court, a
for the second time in her
yell so loud," Dunbar said. "She Chemistryand more the leader by exam­bond rarely seen by those other
· career in a game against Having played so many min­
was the loudest cheerleader the ple. After the team's first loss than their teammates.
first live games." Rutgers in the 1999 Big East utes together on the floor over
this season at Rutgers, Riley was "I think me and Meaghan
Tournament, her teammates
While the struggle to grasp the years, Siemon, Ivey and
in the weight room the next day. have a lot of chemistry at prac­
the offense helped forge the were visibly shaken. Riley seem to have a natural
"She's such a hard worker," tice," Dunbar said. "Our chem­
"I think the first thing I saw connection on the court. Riley
bond between Leahy and Riley, Siemon said of Riley. "That is istry shows but a lot of people
was the team standing on the and Siemon have shown an abil­
Dunbar bonded with Leahy in the one thing that she helps all don't get to see it." 
sidelines crying," Ivey said. "I ity to find one another through
the struggle to get on the court. 


Niele Ivey: If Niele became Kelley Siemon: Kelley would president, she would love to have dinner with
up close & 
paint the White House Jesus Christ, Bill Murray Meaghan Leahy: Meaghan ·s black. and Chevy Chase. most admired Notre Dame 
personal 
Ruth Riley: Ruth enjoys lmani Dunbar: Enjoys athlete is Imani Dunbar. playing on the old outdoor playing video games with
WITH THE IRISH SENIORS 
court by Carroll Hall. Coach McGraw's son. 
jlllllll---------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 2, 2001 
Washington brings brains, experience to Irish bench 
Coquese Washington·s strictly academic-based. 
nisume reads like an excerpt "I knew I wanted to go to col­
from a liction novel. lege," Washington said, "and 
The 30-year-old Irish assis­be successful at whatever I tant coach led Notre Dame to decided to do." its first Thanks to the constant prod­NC:AA 
ding from her mother, tourna­Washington realized her aspi­nwnt rations. appear­"She emphasized day in and ance in day out that if you don't want 1992, to be in the Rescue Mission or rnceived be homeless, then you've got lo her under­get your homework done," graduate Washington said. "I would con­dngrne in slanlly be like 'if my mom ever lhree found out, she'd kill me."' years, The 5-foot-6 point guard taught started as a freshman for the spocial Irish and two years later oducation Washington led Notre Dame to f'or a year, its first-ever NCAA tournament graduated appearance. Foliowing her from Notre Dame law school in junior year, Washington took 1997, practicPd law for a pres­18 credit hours during summer tigious Manhattan firm in 1998 school and in August 1992, she then accepted her current posi­graduated with a history tion in the fall of 1<J99. degree. 
And, oh yeah, by the way, she In her senior season, while has played professional basket­taking graduate courses, the ball for the past four seasons. Irish struggled to a 15-12 In the summer of 2000, record. But for the third Washington was a member of straight soason, Washington the Houston Comets' WNBA ranked first on the team in championship squad. steals and assists. 
Not bad for a girl who, "I think in my four years that despite being a star player at we definitely paved the way a Flint (Mich.) Central High little bit for future success," School, did not realize she Washington said. would even receive a college After traveHng for three 
1996, Washington headed for When she finished the sea­ment, she plans on
scholarship. months, Washington returned 
the American Basketball son, Washington re-enrolled at returning to Houston and
"Until about six or seven to Flint and taught high school 
League's (ABL) tryouts in Notre Dame mid-way through helping the Comets defend
years ago, young girls never history and social studies from 
Atlanta. At that time, her moth­the spring 1997 semester. By their title.
had an opportunity to dream the fall of 1993 to the spring of 
er was living in nearby May, she had received enough "I wouldn't trade it for the
about being a professional ath­1994. She worked with special 
Savannah, Ga. credits and graduated with her world," Washington said of
lete as a career," Washington education children in a poor 
'Tm thinking I'll go down and original law school class. playing. "I don't understand
said. "They never had that idea environment, a setting far dif­
visit my mom and have a nice Following the commence­how the guys in the NBA can
that being an athlete is OK, ferent than the one she had 
little vacation before I start ment, Washington played for just screw it up by doing stupid
being an athlete is cool, being been accustomed to while at 
working for the summer," the WNBA's New York Liberty stuff off the court. You're mak­
an athlete is something to Notre Dame. 
Washington said. for two seasons. She also prac­ing eight million a year and you
aspire to. It's great to be a doc­"I had so much admiration 
She never went back to her ticed law at the firm of Rubin, work two hours a day for
tor or a lawyer or whatever but for those kids," Washington 
job as a law clerk in Flint. Baum and Levin in Manhattan maybe seven months. I don't
now you also say 'I can be a said. "They were phenomenal 
Washington made it through all during the fall of 1998. understand what they're think­
center or I can be a point in their ability to attack adver­
the cuts and was drafted by the And in the fall of 1999, ing."
guard."' sity." 
ABL's Portland Power. She was Muffet McGraw, her old college As always, Washington
In the late 1980s the idea of a In the fall of 1994, 
still unsure whether she would coach, asked Washington to knows what she's thinking
women's professional basket­Washington enrolled in Notre 
ever play for the Power but join the Irish staff. about.
ball league in the United States Dame law school and continued 
then Portland's general manag­"The best part of this job is "I kid Val Ackerman (the
was less likely than a Vince to play basketball with friends 
er made an offer Washington just working with the kids," WNBA's President) all the
McMahon-run professional and members of the Irish 
couldn't refuse. Washington said. "It's great time," Washington said. "I tell
football league. women's team. Then, in 1995, 
Washington could take class­helping them see how great her I'm going to take her job
So although from seventh there was a report that a 
es at Portland's Lewis and they can be on and off the when she retires."
grade on, the self-proclaimed women's professional basket­
Clark College's law school and court." Don't bet against it.
"gym rat" would go to high ball league would be beginning 
also play point guard for the In the next few months,
school practice then to AAU in the near future. 
Power. Washington hopes to attain two The opinions expressed in 
practice and then play with the Her law school friends kept 
"That was challenging," championships -one this column are those ofthe
men at the local YMCA or the telling Washington that she 
Washington said, "to say the as a coach and the other as a author and not necessarily 
University ofMichigan-Flint, should give the league a 
least." player. After the NCAA tourna-those of The Observer. 
Washington's goals remained chance. So in the summer of 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Notre Dame assistant coach Coquese Washington watches the game from the sideline during the 1999-2000 season. Washington plays for the WNBA Houston Comets In the offseason. 


Friday, March 2, 2001 page 13 
•Jazz • • • 
he 43rd Collegiate Jazz Festival, m colleges acrgss the nation 
Krivickas said. Washington Hall will be an improve­
The group of judges is unique for ment. [And] we can't wait till they get several reasons. Two are women. of the new fine arts building done and we which there have only been a handful can move the festival in there." in the past, said Krivickas. Four are Another less recent change whose repeats -Lew Tabackin {flute and effect is still being felt on the festival saxophone). Conte Candoli (trumpet). is the switch to a non-competitive Joanne Brackeen (piano) and Richard atmosphere. Davis (bass). The fifth is drummer •The comp.etition was getting cut-Terri Lyne throat, which wasn't 
n
Carrington, whose what we wanted, father Sonny was "The Judges· Jam is said Krivickas. So once a CJF judge. several years ago the
incredible. They just get
The festival's five CJF dropped its
up there and p_lay with "Best Band" award.
judges traditionally play together at one no music.· Judges are still able point in the festival to award personal­for the"Judges' Jam." ized certificates to 
Paul Krivickas 
The Friday night per-: groups or individuals formance is a favorite 2001 festival director that stand out, but for both Krivickas and the focus has 
Wiskirchen. switched from a "The festival depends on the judges clear winner to a celebration of differ­
-their performances and input are ent jazz styles. always very important," Wiskirchen This change has been very beneficial said. "Each group [of judges] is sepa­to the festival, according to 
rate -not a working band that comes Wiskirchen. "You have 10 groups play­here together. They're all individuals ing this weekend, roughly 200 stu­that weld themselves together at the dents working hard all year. They 
festival." come here, play well and the audience "[The Judges· Jam] is incredible," likes them. Now. to pick out one group said Krivickas. "They just get up there and say they're the best, the rest [of 
and play together with no music." the groups] feel sort of brought down Besides the crowd-pleasing Judges· -there's no reason for that." Jam. CJ F's other big draw is the Wiskirchen contrasted winning a 
Saturday night performance of Notre musical competition like the CJF with Dame's Monday Night Jazz Band (dis­winning a sporting event: "If it were as tinguished from the Wednesday Night close as playing a basketball game, Jazz Band by their practice days.) Also where you can determine exactly who known as Jazz Band I, the group has puts the ball through the hoop so 
been directed from Wiskirchen from many times, then it is much easier to its beginnings in 1972 and has always pin it down who won." played in the jazz festival. Its roughly But art is more subjective, said 
20 members comprise a standard big Wiskirchen. "It isn't an 85-86 victory band sound: five saxophones. four -with art, it's much harder to pick a trombones, five trumpets and five winner. That is one of the reasons we 
got away from Ithe competition.]"
rhythm players. 
Wiskirchen said the jazz band's per­The festival's traditions still contin­
formance remains the central part of ue, however, in the quality of perfor­his weekend: "My favorite part of the mances and the variety of styles. schedule has always been running the "The history of the festival follows 
Notre Dame band, making music with the history of jazz and the artistic the group." · trends of the country," said This 43rd festival brings a few Wiskirchen. "There were times when 
changes to the event. Most noticeably, UazzJ was very experimental. back in the event will be held in Washington the mid-to-late '60s, and times when it Hall, fittingly close to the Old got into a rock or fusion vein, as jazz 
Fieldhouse Mall where the first CJF did in the early '70s.· 
Today's jazz. as seen at the festival,
was held in 1959, and where a corner­stone plaque still commemorates the can be described as mainstream. said Wiskirchen. "It's
event. 
not avant-garde,
Krivicakas' efforts arc 
but it's going into
to thank for the move 
from Stepan Center to "It [the festival} is a depth rather than going into new
Washington Hall. recap ofthe history of 
things."
"I just started think­
jazz in the projessoinal 
Depending on
ing, we have this great 
world -it varies and which bands come,
performing arts center styles of the festi­
on campus -why fluctuates . ., 
ft val change from
aren't we using it?, 
year to year,
Krivickas remembered. 
Fr. Wiskirchen "sometimes [foc1._1s­
It took two years for 
ing1 more onus to move the festival. faculty advisor 
improvisation,
since Washington Hall sometimes more on
gets booked far in communication: Wiskirchen said. "It'sadvance. But Krivickas and 
Wiskirchen agreed it was worth the a recap of the history of jazz in the professional world -it varies and
trouble. "Washington Hall is much better for fluctuates.
n 
our needs," said Krivickas. "All the As for what this year's festival will equipment is there, we don't have to hold. neither Wiskirchen nor Krivickas move chairs in and there's more room can say for sure. 
"That's something you never know
backstage." 
"We had terrible acoustic problems ahead of time," said Wiskirchen. "But there's always something exceptional
at Stepan Center," Wiskirchen said. "For the present time, I think about it." 

Sat., March 3, 2001 
Afternoon Clinic -Notre Dame Band Building: (No fee) 
.2-3 
p.m. Meet in main rehearsal room Evening Concert Block-Washington Hall: {Fee) 

.7:30 
p.m. University of Notre Dame Big Band 


. 
8:15 p.m. University of Northern Iowa Jazz Band I 

.9 
p.m. Northern Illinois University Jazz Lab Band 

.9:45 
p.m. Loyola University New Orleans Jazz Band 

.10:30 
p.m. Florida State University Jazz Ensemble 




Pholos courtesy ol Notre Dame Jazz Band 
Kate Bohn (left) and Stephanie Buffa also performed as part of the Jazz Band at JPW. Notre Dame will be one of 10 schools represented at the 43rd Collegiate Jazz Festival. Playing along side the Notre Dame musicians will be Loyola-New Orleans, a band from the heart of jazz country that is making its first appearance at the festival in 25 years. 

page 14 
The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 2, 2001 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 
Day, have just as much motivation to 
record a win. They are tied with Syracuse 
in the race for second place in the divi­
sion. with the winner gaining a first­
round Big East Tournament bye. 
Syracuse 11nishr.s the regular season at 
St. John's Sunday. 
"Georgetown's playing well," Irish 
coach Mike Brey said Thursday. "They're 
playing for a bye. We've already got the 
bye. There's some incentive th1:_\re, so 
we'll have to play very well to beat 
them." 
The Irish stumbled a bit the game after securing the division title with a win at Virginia Tech when they lost at Connecticut. One loss should be enough to remind the players why winning beats losing. 
"The UConu psychology was kind of hard to handle," Hrev said. "We clinched the Litle, and it was ·probably dillicult to be as hungry in all honesty. I think we can be pretty hungry about Georgetown -our last home game, 20 wins, there's a lot of things." 
When the Irish have something larger to play for, like at Virginia Tech, they usually come together and play well as a team. Unselfish play is what could propel the Irish through both the Big East and NCAA Tournamenl'i if they hope to make u run. 
It worked in Notre Dame's first victory over Georgetown. a 78-71 win at the MCI Center on Jan. 27. The Irish had five players score in double digits in that win. 
"Every game we have coming up is obviously going to be a huge game for us," sophomore guard Matt Carroll said. "They're all big-time games. In order for us to realize our potential, we've all got to play together and play unselfish." 
Another key for Notre Dame, which has beaten Georgetown in the teams' past two matchups, will be controlling the game pace. In the season's !irst contest, lngcslby and his teammates led the tempo. 
"We want to do basically the same thing as we did the first time -try to control the tempo, take care of the ball and rebound," Carroll said. 
Stopping one of the league's top fresh­men, forward Mike Sweetney, is one part of holding the Hoyas in check. Other players to watch are forwards Gerald Riley and Anthony Perry, center Ruben Boumtje-Boumtje and guards Demetrius Hunter und Kevin Braswell. 
The Irish have a few extra things on seeking to go out on a good note. son. would be his last in the Joyce Center. their list ofgoals this weekend. lngelsby's a candidate for the most Murphy may also have more at stake "It might be [my last game here]." said 
The Irish am going for their 20th regu­improved player of the year in the Big than normal. If the 6-foot-10 forward, Murphy, who hasn't made up his mind lar season win, a number they haven't East, after losing his starting job to who averages 23 points and more than about his future plans. "It could be. It seen in more than a decade. Then there's Jimmy Dillon a year ago but averaging nine rebounds per game, decides to go would be nice to go out a winner if it the fact that lngelsby and Rasmussen are better than six assists per game this sea-pro after the season, Sunday's game was." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 f.m. ac che Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
Th,,e charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
TICKETS 
Need 1 ticket to Men·s b-ball game 
on Mar. 4 for dad. Call Carolyn 4­
2346 
Wanted 2 Tix for Georgetown game on Sunday 3/4. Call Kim @ 631­5878 
HELP! Need georgetown tix 
Will pay premium 
Call susan X3519 
WANTED 
Fraternities· Sororities Clubs'Student Groups Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with the easy Campus­fundraiser.com three hour fundrais­ing event. No sales requ,red. Fundraising dates are lilling quickly, so call today! Contacl Campus­fundraiser.com at (888) 923-3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com 
Make $5500 in summer &/or start now. Set own hours -· need hard work & good social skills. Call 4­2765. 
SUMMER HELP NEEDED -­TEACHER ASSISTANTS The Early Childhood Development Center at the University of Notre Dame is looking lor college stu­dents who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending the summer, June 7-August 3 -· 40 hours per week, assisting the chi!­dren and teachers on field trips, reading children's books, building with blocks, singing songs, playing games and assisting with lunch, please call 631-3344 to receive an application and more information. FUN IN THE SUN!I 
Reliable, quality childcare needed 
in my home for 2-year-old and 
infant. Part-time hours are 2-3 hrs/day, 3-4 days/wk with 1 Saturday a month. Maioring in early childhood development or child­hood education with own trans­portation a plus but not necessary. References required. Phone 288-6795 
Ex ND staffer and spouse want to rent your apt. for summer. Non­smokers no pets. Have rented from students for past 12 summers. Write 135 Lakeview Dr. Mulberry FL 33860 863-425-4402 SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for children with disabilities. Located on shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, Ml. Positions available for Counselors, Lifeguards, Instructors for Nature/ Arts & 
Craf1s/Recrealion/Canoeing, 
Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 17 through August 12. Salary, Room & Board, and experience of a lifetime provided. Call or write for application and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855, (906)228-5770, e-mail BayCliffHC@aol.com 
need babysitter, pref. Early eel major, own trans, 2-yr.-old by mar­tins 273-1205 
LOST & FOUND 
Reward Available • Lost Class Ring Blue Stone with Small ND darl< finish with '01 inside Call Todd at 246-9085 SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED: 
For a lost gold and silver bracelet 
with alternating silver and gold 
blocks, if found please contact 
Rachel Phillips at 4-1492 or email 
ehillips 75@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT. 
NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE 
BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL 219-298-3800 
3. 6 bedroom homes furn. Near cam­pus 2001/02&summer 
272-6306 
All the good hOmes are not gone I Available 4 bedroom. Available 2 bedroom. Dave 291-2209 Macos@michiana.org 
3-5 bedroom homes close to cam­pus 232-2595 mmmrentals@aol.com 
2 Houses, side by side, still avail. For 2001-02. Rent one or both, 4 BR & 6 BR, Furnished, beach V-ball, W/D, prime location, 233-9947 Greg $$ Get paid for your opinions!$$ Earn $15-$125 and more per sur­veyl www.money4opinions.com 
2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL 
219-298-3800. 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 4-br $700/month 2) 3-br $600 /month We'll make almost any changes to the houses. Call Bill at 675-0TT6 
FOR SALE 
New Townhouse 1n "The Forest" 2 story 2.5 bath Study Hardwood floors Skylights Deck French doors Alarm $179,900 243-2939 
SPRING BREAK-DOWNTOWN CHICAGO! $22-25/night-Hostelling Int'! $2 OFF WITH AD 312/360-0300 orwww.hichicago.org 
Microwave stand w/ storage $175 Call Kim 631-5878 
PHONE CARDS $20: 2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR­CHARGE or $20 362 MIN WITH NO FEES 
634-1146 CLAUDIA 634-4210 SARA 
Wooded 1/2 acre lots 20 minutes to Notre Dame Football Minutes to US Goll Academy. Contract avail­able. $20,000 Phone (219) 473­0191 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and · deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2088 
89 Toyota Corolla manual 100K highway miles $2300 call 273-3149 
PERSONAL 
Wow, a preview of the new year. It's 3: 15. Kerry, Noah, Mike and Jason sitting in the basement doing what we love most. Memories made for a lifetime. 

Friday, March 2, 200 l The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
February 28th·and March 2nd & 3rd 
' 
-: 
I I
The 43rd I 
Annual Collegiate Jazz Festival 
-1 
1 1 
I I I 
FRIDAY, MARCH 2nd Evening concert block -Washington Hall: 
7:30 Central Michigan University Jazz Lab I Rob Smith, Director 
8:15 Boise State University Jazz Ensemble Ritchard Maynard, Director 
9:00 Southern Illinois University Special Projects Ensemble Brett Stamps, Director 
9:45 Lawrence University Jazz Quintet Ken Schaphorst, Director 
10:30 University ofTexas-Brownsville Jazz Band I Terry Tomlin, Director 
11:15Judges' Jam 
Lew Tabackin (flute & saxophone) Conte Candoli (trumpet) PRICE INDEX 
(tickets available at the door) 
Joanne Brackeen· (piano) 
Students Non-Students 
Richard Davis (bass) Friday Evening Performance Block $4 $8 Saturday Evening Performance Block $2 $5
Terri Lyne Carrington (drums) 
All Festival Pass $5 $12 
SATURDAY, MARCH 3rd Clinic -Notre Dame Band Building: 2-3 :00 Meet in main rehearsal room. 
Evening concert block -Washington Hall: 
7:30 University of Notre Dame Big Band Rev. George Wiskirchen, CSC, Director Lane Weaver, Assistant Director 

8:15 University of Northern Iowa Jazz Band I Robert Washut, Director 
9:00 Northern Illinois University Jazz Lab Joey Sellers, Director 
9:45 Loyola University New Orleans Jazz Band John Mahoney, Director 
10:30 Florida State University Jazz Ensemble William Kennedy, Director 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 2, 2001 
HEADIN' HOME 

ELIZABETH LANG/The Observer Junior Owen Asplundh chases the ball during a game last season against Villanova. The men's team takes on Penn In their home opener Sunday. 
NFL 
Panthers' White calls it a career 
CIIAHLOTTE, N.C. 
Carolina Panthers defensive end Heggie White, the NFL's all-time sack leader, said Thursday he has ended his comeback and has retired again from football. 
"We thought a great deal of Heggie and he did a wonder­ful job for us this season and has been a great pro as l can attest having competed against him," Panthers head coach George Seifert said at a news conference at Ericsson Stadium. 
"l will always miss the lock­er room and the guys, but I know God's will for me to 
move on to other challenges because it's not in me like it used to be," White said in statement. 
This is actually White's third retirement. 
He retired for one day prior to the 1998 season but then said God had told him he needed to play again, and he returned to the Green Bay Packers. 
White retired again after the 1998 season and took a year off from football. After the Packers allowed him out of his contract, White returned to the Panthers last season and played for $1 mil­lion. 
White had a disappointing season in many respects, recording a career-low 5.5 sacks with only 27 tackles. He didn't show the same pass-
rushing skills that made him a dominating force for much of the past two seasons. and the veteran-filled Panthers fin­ished a disappointing 7-9. 
White vowed this retirement is final. 
"So, no more retirements, no more returns," White said. "And I do so with no regrets because I know God has an e_:'citing future for me." 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Stiles sets all-time career points mark 
"The pressure's of'f," Stiles said. "Now we can just concentrate on win­ning basketball games. It's just a burden off my shoul­ders." 
Stiles. who was averag­ing 30.8 points, needed 20 to break the record and the game drew a standing­room-only crowd of 9,155 that included Missouri, Gov. Bob llolden, a 197:3 Southwest Missouri State graduate. 
All hoprd to be a part of' history, and Stiles sent them home happy as Southwest Missouri State (21-5, 15-2; No. 16 ESPN/USA Today; No. 18 Associated Press) stayncl one game behind first­place Drake in th0 Missouri Valley Conference race. 

Associated Press 
'SPRINGFIELD. Mo. 
Breaking the NCAA scor­ing record brought Jackie Stiles relief more than 
. anything else. The satisfaction, she said, will come later. 
Stiles scored 30 points and became the career scoring leader in NCAA Division I women's basket­ball as Southwest Missouri State beat Creighton 94-59 on Thursday nighL 
She increased her career total to 3,133 points, breaking the record of 3,122 that Patricia Hoskins set at Mississippi Valley State from 1985-89. The record fell when Stiles hit a 3-pointer early in the second half. giving her 3,123. 


As a Brother in the Congregation of Holy Cross you will share in a rich tradition of unselfish service and become a brother to many. 
For more infom1ation about beginning a new life as a 
.:-i 
Brother of Holy Cross, contact Br. Donald Gibbs, C.S.C. 
--BROTHERS OF 'HOLY CROSS P.O. Box 460, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
e-mail: dgibbs@hcc-nd.edu 
(219)-251-2222 

Friday, March 2, 200 I The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
HOCKEY 
Icemen look to tame Broncos, advance to playoffs 

KYLIE CARTER/The Observer 
Left wing Dan Carlson advances the puck during Notre Dame's 3-2 win over Bowling Green on Feb. 9. The Irish currently lead Bowling Green by a single point for the final playoff spot. 
COLUABIA UNIVE~IJY'S 
Bl9SPHERE 2 
Earth Systems Science and Astronomy programs are offered for Science and Non-science majors at Columbia University Biosphere 2 campus near Tucson, Arizona. 
ALL PROGRAMS TAUGHT BY COLUMBIA FACULTY! 

SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS! 

APPLY TO BIOSPHERE 2 FOR SUMMER SESSIONS NOW! 
Summer programs: 
• Earth Systems Field School II -4 credits, June 2001 
• Summer of Stars -5 credits, June-July 2001 
• Earth Systems Field School I -6 credits, July-August 2001 
• Biodiversity Institute -5 credits, July-August 2001 
Visit Biosphere 2 at www.bio2.edu/education (800) 992-4603 or notre_dame@bio2.edu 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Spom Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team has risen in the past two weeks like a vampire at nightfall, with a 3-0-2 record in their last five games. This weekend, they face No. 13 Western Michigan in a home-home series that will determine whether the Irish will continue on to the CCHA play­offs. 
The Irish currently lead Bowling Green by a single point, 18 to 17. Notre Dame occupies the 10th and final playoff spot, and would need three out of the four possible points -a win and a tie -to secure the final spot. 
All these playoff scenarios depend on Bowling Green's final series against Ferris State. If Bowling Green can only muster a single point in two games, the Irish would be guaranteed the playoff spot by virtue of having the advantage in the head to head series. 
Western Michigan will be a very difficult challenge for even a red-hot Notre Dame squad. The Broncos are 18-10-6 over­all, and have plenty of depth and talent to overmatch Notre Dame. 
"We feel good about this 
weekend," said assistant captain 
Dan Carlson. "We played well 
against them before and we feel 
like we can play well again." 
The Irish are coming off a 
very long and very successful 
road trip last weekend against 
Alaska-Fairbanks. Notre Dame 
came away from the Alaskan 
tundra with a win and a tie and 
a much needed three points. 
Western Michigan split this 
past weekend against Bowling 
Green. Notre Dame will have to 
focus on the Broncos' two out­
-,.::, ·,·)--· ·:' "<}':-:., /J.:0-. 
Fi$f'-d 1o.....,dt~ to give thanks. At i,enny•s"', we show •r gratitQde.;,_,y giving tell organizations that 

ifo v•je!t,Oi~ljilj,-~,<.W•~r.ii,-title•.,••«>t .., Th~ HarJem Globetrotte,s' Summet'Youth Basketball Camps and the largest cm,,orate sporis~n of Save the Children in the 

U.S. Our Young Visionaries Essay Competition offers 
thousands of dollar~ a year in college scholar-ships, Youl'. .patronage ofDenny's enables us to contribute 
!'9illions ~l,-idelllar$ in st,pport of youth and education. 
¥4ifc:tr!,t.t;t,J().,i.••have!i/l>ufthank$. 

...,Savethe

l•Childrenl:JJS: 
· ~ !ifliiOlllfflet Essay llom111~Utkm C11lellrlltiftp' Ah'u:an Anleffllan l(eritage 
·oenriy's it coffi.mfttecHo Pl"Qvldiog ttw best iiosslple service to all customel1), 

standing scorers, senior right winger David Gove and junior center Mike Bishai. Both had 55 points after last weekend's series. 
But Western Michigan has already cemented their playoff spot, and the Broncos have less to play for than the Irish. The Broncos will most likely receive either the fourth or fifth playoff spot depending on their perfor­mance this weekend. 
"We want to win both games," said Carlson. "But if we can't get that. a win and a tic would be nice too." 
Another positive for Notre Dame is the previous home and home series between the two teams back on Jan. 12 and 13, when the Irish won in South Bend and tied in Kalamazoo to secure three points for the weekend. · 
And that's what they need to do now. 
Though the Irish have had trouble in home games this year, Notre Dame is 7-0-1 in their last eight games against the Broncos on the Joyce Center ice. 
Defenseman Brett Lebda was 
selected as the CCHA rookie-of­
the-week for the last week of 
February. The defenseman 
made a strong case for himself 
by supplying the Irish with some 
offense this past weekend 
against Alaska-Fairbanks with a 
goal and three assists. 
The two teams face off in 
Lawson Arena at Western 
Michigan on Friday night, and 
then again Saturday night at the 
Joyce Center. 
On Saturday night, the team 
will honor its departing seniors, 
including captains Carlson, 
Ryan Dolder, and Chad 
Chipchase, as well as Jay 
Kopishchke, Ryan Clark, Kyle 
Kolquist, and Matt Van Arkel. 
w• •~rn -'l'C>"!f 
e kitchen tablet 
-·.,:_:.;.:_ 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 2, 200 I 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish return entire 2000 team in 200 I 
Special to The Observer 
A new season presents a new challenge for the Irish women's lacrosse team, whose season begins in Ilarrisonburg, Va. on Sunday, when it takes on James Madison al 1 p.m. 
A new era begins for the 
Notre Dame women's lacrosse 
program in 2001 with the 
arrival of Big East women's 
lacrosse competition. Starting 
their fifth season at the varsity 
level under head coach Tracy 
Coyne, the Irish did not lose a 
senior to graduation from last 
year and welcome the arrival 

of another strong freshman 
class. 
"For the first time, we have a 
learn returning that has a sig­
nificant amount of playing 
time," said Coyne, the head 
coach of the 2001 Canadian 
World Cup team. 
"This is the first year where 
we have key players returning 
in every position and have 
depth and experience. There is 
more competition at every 
position and more talented 
players overall." 
After finishing with a 5-10 
record last season, the Irish 
return such players as all­
region selections Lael 
O'Shaughnessy on attack and 
Kathryn Lam at defense. 
Senior Tara Durkin was among 
the nation's top goalkeepers 
last year. The experience and 
growth of the program was 
evident in the fall practice sea­
son. 
"We played our most com­
petitive fall schedule ever," 
said Coyne. 
"We are excited about how 
we did against top competition. 
Fall practice gave us the 
opportunity to do early evalua­tion of areas where we need work and to have the freshmen get a chance to taste what the season will be like in the spring." 
The dawn of Big East women's lacrosse competition in 2001 will be particularly gratifying for Coyne, a driving force among the coaching com­munity for the inclusion of women's lacrosse under the Big East Conference umbrella. Notre Dame's six-game Big East schedule features home games against Georgetown, Connecticut and Rutgers and road games at Virginia Tech, Boston College and Syracuse. The Irish played every team but Virginia Tech last year. 
"This is the beginning of a wonderful opportunity to be part of the Big East Conference and to represent Notre Dame in the conference," says Coyne, who led seven teams to confer­ence championships in nine season before coming to Notre Dame. 
"Our goal is to win the initial championship but there are a lot of great teams in the con­ference. This will give ffur teams national recognition. The Big East could be one of the dominant conferences in the country." 
The freshman class won't be 
the only new addition set to 
impact the Irish women's 
lacrosse team, as head coach 
Tracy Coyne welcomes a new 
assistant coach to her staff. 
World Cup veteran Danielle 
Gallagher brings a wealth of 
international experience to the 
program. The 1989 graduate 
of William & Mary has been a 
member of two championship 
U.S. World Cup teams and is in training for her third in 2001. 

ELIZABETH LANG/fhe Observer 
Sophomore attacker Alissa Moser cradles the ball during a game against Connecticut last sea­son. The women's lacrosse squad opens their season at James Madison on Sunday. 
It's hard to improve the· WHOPPER~ but we did. 
The WHOPPER® Value Meal. 
BASKETBALL 
Brey, McGraw alllong Naismith finalists 
Special to The O bscrvcr 
University or Notre Dame men's basketball coach Mike Brey and women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw are among the 20 finalists for the Naismith College Basketball Coach of the Year Awards. 
The winners of both Naismith Awards will be honored in Atlanta. Ga., on April 7, 2001. 
In his first season at Notre Dame, Brey guided the Irish to the Big East West Division title, the first league title for a Notre Dnmfl men's basketball team since becoming a conference member in 1995-96. 
Tho divisional title secures 
Notre Dame a first-round in 
the upcoming AT&T Big East 
Championship. March 7-10 at 
Madison Square Garden. The 
Irish, ranked 13th in both the 
Associated Press and 
ESPN/USA Today rankings, 
currently have a 19-7 overall 
record and 11-4 mark in Big 
East play with one game 
remaining in the nigular sea­
son. 
The 19 regular-season wins arc the most by a Notre Dame team since the 1988-89 cam­paign. McGraw, a Naismith coach-of-the-year finalist the past two seasons, also led her Irish team to its first Big East regular-season crown as Notre Dame shared the title with defending national champion Connecticut. 
lier squad currently is 26-1 overall (the eighth straight 20­win season for the Irish) and finished with a 15-1 mark in Big East play. 
Notre Dame earned the No. 1 
ranking for the first time in 
school historv when the Irish 
defeated the Iluskies 92-76 on 
Jan. 15 and spent four weeks 
ranked in the top spot during 
the season. 
A veteran of 19 vears as a 
collegiate coach \Vith 14 of 
those seasons coming at Nol.re 
On.me, McGraw earned her 
300th win with the Irish and 
400th career victory earlier 
this year. 


Friday, March 2, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
BASEBALL 
Notre Dame falls to professional Devil Rays, 17-4 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame graduate Vince Naimoli faced and interesting dilemma Thursday afternoon. The 1959 graduate is the owner of the major league Tampa Bay Devil Hays, who were playing an exhibition ganw against the lrish. 
Despite his loyalty to his alma mater, Naimoli was quite clear on which team he was rooting for at Florida Flower Park in St. Pclnrsburg. 
"No question. I 
NoLre Dame sports information director Pete Lafleur told the Notre Dame radio network. "He really goes up there and takes his hacks." 
White faced 11 hitters in two innings, giving up the two runs on three hits. 
"I wasn't pleased to have a lapse in my first outing," White said in a press release. "You're so focused to go out there and I just rushed it, getting my fastball up." 
Mike Morgalis didn't fare much better on the mound for the Irish 
in the fifth 
inning, serving 
want tho Devil Hays "No question. I want up homers to to win every ·z R Ron Wright and 
game," Naimoli tie Devi ays to Derrick Gibson
' said in a press win every game. to extend the rckas<'. Tampa lead to t\nd that is just 9-2.
Vince Naimoli
what his team did, White's man­
Devil Rays owner
by a 17-4 marg:in. ager thought 
Tlw l)pvil ll,lVS jumpod on soph·o­more starter l'etcr Ogilve early. Following two 2-run singles by major league veterans Handy Winn and Gerald Williams, the Irish were quickly down S-0 in the second inning. 
The Irish hit the bank in the 
bottom of the fourth off Tampa 
bonus baby Matt White. White. a 
former top draft pick who 
received a $10 million signing 
bonus. walked the first three bat­
ters of the inning before facing 
outfielder Kris Billmaier. 
Hillmaicr stroked a single to 
score one run. and freshman first 
baseman Joe Thamann plated 
another runner with a ground­
out. 
With lrish rightfielder Brian 
Stavisky nursing a sore ham­
string. Billmaicr will be counted 
on for offensive help. 
"He's a fun player to watch," 
NOTRE DAME WESTERN MICHIGAN entire section! -:.~ 
that his star 
prospect lost his composure a bit on the mound. 
"He got out of sync, especially the first three hitters. He did throw some good pitches but it was just one of those days when he got out of sync and it took him longer than you want to get back into it," White said. 
Travis Harper started the game for the Devil Hays, holding the Irish scoreless in his three innings. Harper retired eight of the first nine batters he faced. 
"That's what you expect from Travis," Hothschild said. "I thought he threw the ball very well. He's going to throw the ball over the plate and knows what to do with it." 
The Irish take the field for a 
game that counts today. Star 
righthander Aaron Heilman takes 
the mound against a tough 
Florida Atlantic team at 1 p.m. 
• 
Saturday March 3rd, 7pm 
~~~~~~~~~~ 
II/ex WIison Invitational 
FrlllaJI at611m/SaturllaJ1 at 10:30am
lattus snorts Center · · lastchance ID aualitvtorNCAII. 
Come checkoutAll-American 
Bran Shay and women's team stars,
Liz Browand Tameisha King. 

ANDY WILSON/The Observer 
Irish shortstop Alec Porzel slides home during a game last season. Porzel led the Irish in runs 
batted In during the 2000 season, 
Get Your Notre Dame Hockey Posters Autographed After the Game 
1st. see f:allS bceiv• a • Hockey g.ychai11 Chance for 50 Fans to Win a Blue ND Bean Bag Bear!! 
\ST 350 STUDENTS /\01\NTTED FilEE 
,. Win Taco's for your. 
1st 100 Students 
vs.Penn 


ALEX WILSON INVITATIONAL 
Friday /Saturday March 2-3 6 pm/10:30 am 
Notre Dame vs. Penn 
Sunday, March 4. 12pm 


page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, March 2, 2001 
t1a SMALL CLASSES• • GR.EAT 'BOOKS • 


----...;._--~--"1>,~h• ._____ ----~ 
Yo~ too eaH ~~ i.Hloelf tlfo ~ ~ 
soerots ol tl4o a9osl ... 
P.l.S. 
~01,i'itE 1(100,,-1~ mg 
Eu... l{ov''-J 0NL"\ EN ~~Al~ 
1,l,~"Sainr.. t.r"wo•i, :r 
S11~L'1>0M-Tl'f1T1~ 
0Lu! ~ow h1il1\ i'os1111&.c'?I 1>l\Co'4~1ll1>T\lk'f E,.a~ll'lltS 
~ 'Ru\. t3e.All.t>?.' 
ElL 1J: "ApptNtllTo :11E. "STUffllt~P VpoN AJ p.C,.!.~~E \M e,AA:SM\IS 1c~ IY\A'D~ !fE.tt.1'4t.f. To 
'"",,.,._ 
l\A'P1>E£1' RE.fu,,11~To A FM£ '61'1 (stm1"1 llillT. 
IT wi, ~i~ °1i'M :c
.. 
f..,,.111 tt'E folMIJ\A••• 
Sf.•• 
'1:t'111 &a.~ 
~ ~l)p\111" 
16'4 (1\AM. 


Friday, March 2, 200 l 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

~ 
PEl.roiMING ARTS a.NTEll • SOtrrH BiND, IN 

INTERRACE 
Topic: The New Face of America... 
Discussing the census results 

Men 
continued from page 24 
personal-best 6 feet, 9 inches in the high jump, but is still­four inches below the 7-1 height needed to provisionally qualify for the NCAA l'inals. 
Irish coaches also received a pleasant surprise from the pole vaulting squad at the Big East finals. Josh Heck and Nathan Cahill both cleared 15­9 and placed second and fifth. respectively. 
Freshman Godwin Mbagwu appeared to be one of the clos­est athletes at achieving a pro­vis io na I qualifying perfor­mance. llis 50 feet, 4 1/2 inch mark in the triple jump in the first meet of the season was less than a foot off the provi­sional qualifying mark. 
However, Mbagwu. who took second in the Big East triple jump, will not be competing this weekend due to a knee injury. 
The meet begins Friday night with l'ield events and continues Saturday morning with the running events. 
Notes: 
. Junior Quill Redwine had surgery last Friday to help repair an injury sustained ear­lier this season. While Redwine will not compete for the rest of the indoor season, Piane said that he expects him to return for most of the out­door season. 
20AR 
8:00 PM 
CORRECTION 
In today's Bengal Bouts pullout, the analysis of the 130-lb. championship fight refers to Shawn Newburg taking on James Fishburne. Newburg faught Fishburne in the 125-lb. championship in 2000. 
This year, Newburg takes on the experienced Camilo Rueda. The taller Rueda will use his strong reach to attack the tiny Newburg, who won the 125-lb. bracket last year. The disciplined Newburg will use his excellent technique to excel in the ring. 
The Observer regrets the error. 
Wo1Den 
continued from page 24 
finals. At the Meyo Invitational earlier this year, she ran a school record 53.3 seconds in the 400 meters. 
While that time was not fast enough for an automatic spot in the finals, it is the second-fastest 400 in the nation this year, virtually assuring her of competing in the NCAA finals. 
Grow, who has been domi­nating the 400-meters for the Irish all season, was upset in the finals at the Big East 400 by Pittsburgh's Tia Tabb. Grow, who had won the Big East title her sophomore year, finished seven hun­dredths of a second behind Tabb and took second place. 

Many top collegiate teams are expected to compete in the final Irish home indoor meet of the season because it is the last opportunity to achieve qualifying perfor­mances for next week's 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books boullht and sold -2S Categories ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stoclc. -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisal$ large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sund•y 1027 E. Wayne ' South Send, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
TONY FLOYD/The Observer 
The women's track and field team competes in their final home indoor meet of the season this weekend in Loftus. 
NCAA finals. chance to reach a qualifying Tameisha King is another mark this weekend is pole Irish athlete chasing an vaulter Jaime Volkmer. The NCAA bid. She leapt 20 feet, sophomore took second at the 1/4 inch a month ago, far Big East Championship with enough for an NCAA provi-a vault of 12-1 1/2, setting a sional mark. The sophomore school record for the third All-American is also trying to time this season. In order to qualify in the 60-meter hur-achieve a qualifying mark, dies. Volkmer needs to clear 12-5 King's best time in that 1/2, a height she has attempt­event is 8.49; the NCAA pro-ed multiple times this season. visional time is 8.43. The Alex Wilson "She has a legitimate shot Invitational begins at 6 p.m. in the long jump," said Piane. tonight with the field events. The only other Notre Dame The meet continues Saturday 
athlete with a reasonable with the running events. 
WHEN: Wednesday. March 7 WHERE: CSC TIME: 5:30 pm 
Join us for dinner and a discussion! Please RSVP by Monday, March 5 
@1-6841 
---·---­
page 22 
The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 2, 2001 
SOFTBALL 
No. 15 Irish head into the shadow of Lookout Mountain 
Special to The Observer 
The No. 15 Notre Dame softball team continues the 2001 season this weekend at the Frost Tournament in Chattanooga, Tenn.• hosted by the University of Tennessee-Chattanooga. 
Notre Dame improved its record to 8-1 last weekend at tho Morning News Invitational in Fayetteville. Ark. 
The Frost Tournament will be a round-robin event, as the Irish will play each par­ticipating team twice. Notre Dame will face Jacksonville State and UT-Chattanooga on Friday, followed by matchups with Alabama-Birmingham and UT-Chattanooga on Saturday. 
The schedule wraps up on Sunday as Notre Dame faces Alabama-Birmingham and Jacksonville State. 
The Jacksonville Gamecocks are 7-3 this sea­son and are a member of the TransAmerica Conference. They feature three starting pitchers: Tara Ross. Meadow McWhorter and Jill Wilcoxson. 
Allie Simons leads the Gamecock offense with 10 hits in 10 games this season, while Laruen Buck tops the team in HBI with nine. 
Notre Dame will meet Alabama-Birmingham for the first time ever on Saturday, March 3, at 2 p.m. Both teams will meet again Sunday, March 4. at 10 a.m. UAB is 5-9 in 2001 and is a member of Conference USA. Two pitchers split the start­ing duties for the Blazers. Kerri Foster and Kelli Thompson have each started six games this year. The UAB pitching staff has a combined 
1.32 ERA. 
Thompson also leads the team in hitting with a .409 average in 22 plate appear­anes. She tops the team in RBI with six and boasts a .545 slubbing percentage. 
Notre Dame will face 
..-· 
Tennesee-ChaUanooga twice this weekend. They will be the third and fourth meetings between the Moes and the Irish. UTC won the last meet­ing Feb. 26, 1999 4-3. 
UTC is 13-7 in 2001 and is coming off a victory over Jacksonville State Tuesday. Feb. 27. 
Jaci Welsh leads the Moc offense with a .315 average. three home runs and 18 runs batted in. Jolene Martin is also hitting .315 with 17 hits in 14 games. 
Tayla Trudell (1. 7 4 ERA, 4­4 in eight starts, 31 K) and Beth Alexander (1.62 ERA, 7 ­2 in nine starts, 41 K) are the heart of the UTC pitching staff. 
Notre Dame won three out of four games in the water­logged Morning News Invitational in Favetteville. Ark.. last weekend." 
The Irish began the week­end with a 4-0 victory over Texas Tech, followed by wins over Arkansas and Maine. Arkansas handed Notre Dame its first loss of the year on Sunday, Feb. 25, 2-0. 
The Irish were originally scheduled to play a double­header against each team over the course of the invita­tional, but two days dominat­ed by inclement weather forced the tournament orga­nizers to adjust the format. 
Notre Dame took the field 
Friday, Feb. 23, at 10 a.m. 
against Texas Tech in the 
lirst game of the invitational. 
The teams played three scoreless innings before play was suspended due to heavy rain showers. Both teams were able to muster just one hit against the opposing pitcher before the rain delay. 
It took more than seven 
hours for the weather to 
clear enough for the teams to 
return to competition. 
Notre Dame starting pitch­
er Jen Sharron returned to 
strikeout four of the first six 
batters she faced after the 
break. Sharron eventually 
pitched a complete-game 
one-hit shutout. 

IOior Class MIi 
Sunday, March 4th 7:JllJll 
KEBBV9ri>ro Chapel 
The collection from the mass will bt aSenior Class Denotion to the new 
Community Learning Center 
Fr.. Dav.idSdeidleJ\CSCPresiding 



ANDY WILSON/The Observer 
Notre Dame sophomore Andrea Leman prepares for a pitch during a game last season. The Irish will take part in the Frost Tournament in Chattanooga, Tenn., this weekend. 
Undergraduate members ofthe gay, lesbian, and bisexual community are invited to apply for membership on the 
Standing Committee 
# 
for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. 
Applications are now available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Standing Committee web site: 
http://www.nd.edu/ "'sc glsn/ 
Applications are due by 5:00 p.m. on Friday, March 23, 2001, and can be submitted at the Office ofStudent Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more infonnation. 

Friday, March 2, 200 I 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
WHATELY 
TRAN6FM/MTION Of& DININ9 HALL MEAT 
Hof d~-:,, ,,_~1c.'(e.ri 
-· 
t111C;}'jGt:... • -this \S
:C-thou~ht -I'~ du:i"'t se.r11e. ~ ~ce,1-t 

Of\ h-uio. dur-1n'3 . \..1o>.,n1". J Wno.t th(. hw(
p ) 
~ ,~ tn the~ e. t~,n~~? AM~ Me. t~~ f"urr':l? 
J 
BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
... 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~....+~..,.+.,.+=+,,.,..i 22 It may follow H E A tour or six, but 
interest? 
O B O i.;-i.,..+.,,.+...+,,,. A O not five 36 Napoleon's ......,_._r.....v... 24 Silence birthplace 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


45 Half of the "Wayne's World" 1...-4---1--+----4-+---+-+---+-+--+-+--+---ll-+-­


duo 47 Author LeShan 48 Wall Street 
gambit 51 Camper's need 52 Comments from 
co-workers 
DOWN 
1 Former German duchy known for a breed of dog 
2 Really ham it up, redundantly 3 Found out about 4 N.Y.C. subway 
5 Snickers 6 ·_, she's mine .. ." (Manfred Mann lyric) 7 Columnist Herb and others 
8 Farm prefix Puzzle by Joe DIPlello 
9 Study of lakes 26 Like most and ponds cemetery plots 
10 -Cross 28 Sports org. Championship 
owned by Fox Racing 
29 In which 49 is 11 Complains 
100 
12 Baseball stat 
30 Rash 13 Church offering 14 Tum out 31 What tubas play 
33 Nail
15 Paris parents 34 Place of 
37 One of the 42 Not in brothers Grimm 43 Golfers' bane 38 Bill 
46 To _ (just so) 
39 Potato dishes 49 Mil. titles
40 Screening device 50 Encouraging 41 Separate word 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS . 
HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, MARCH2, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Desi Arnaz, Dr. Seuss, Jennifer Jones, Jon Bon Jovi, Lou Reed, Mikhail Gor­bachev, Al Waxman, Karen Car­penter, Gabriele Tarquini, Tom Wolfe 
Happy Birthday: You must control your emotions if you want to take advantage of all the amazing events in your life this year. You will have to choose your direction carefully and con­centrate on what needs to be done instead of wasting time .. For the time being, let go of all the people and tli.ings that are not beneficial. Your numbers: 19, 23, 26, 32, 38, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Travel should be on your agenda. You can obtain a vast amount of knowledge if you keep an open mind and discuss your opinions with established individuals. Sign up for courses that will help you develop new skills. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be careful not to take on too much. You may feel competitive, but tackling unreasonab1e chal­lenges will restrict you. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will want to spend time with your lover and will find it hard to control your emotions. Make plans that will allow you to express your intentions. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't push your luck with supe­riors or authority figures. Secret affairs will eventually backfire on you. You may not get your facts correct today. Double check before you make statements that could ruin your reputation. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your charming and outgoing nature will attract members of the opp-
Birthday Baby: Fidgety, excitable and full of pizzazz, you will always amaze and entertain the people around you. You are know!• edgeable and eager to please. You have a strong sense of what you 
want an~ ~ _set!leJor nothing less. 

<Si> 
www.. nd. 
edu/~sub 

EUGENIA LAST 
osite sex if you put yourself in a position of leadership at group meetings. Don't be afraid to speak your piece. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
li:avel will entice you, but curb any tendency to overspend. Deal with children's needs and participate in self-awareness groups. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your lover may be keeping important information from you. Sudden changes regarding your partnership are likely. Get·ready to put time and effort into pam­pering yourself. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Legal matters may be pressing. Take care of your personal affairs yourself. If you take the time to help someone less fortunate than yourself, you will receive rewards. 000 
SAGII'TI\RIUS (NO\\ 22-Tuc. 21): 
You will be somewhat confused 
about your personal relationship. 
Don't try to make decisions or 
changes without running your 
ideas past your mate. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Career limitations may set you 
back. Losses are evident if you 
become involved in joint financial 
ventures. Some people you work 
with may try to dump their 
responsibilities on you. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. :ZO.Feb. 18): 
You need to be entertained, so get out with friends. Look into ways to pamper yourself for a new atti­tude and a new you. It's your turn tobe a little selfish. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Changes in your home will be unnerving. If you try to be accepting, you will discover that the situation is not as bad as you had first thought. Learn to go with the flow for best results. 00 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 
1 Monarchy or parliamentary democracy 
16 A little too clever 17 Oven item 18 Stray 19 Join securely 20 1984 skiing gold medalist· 21 Many cottage dwellers 23 Omer orders 25 Arab League V.I.P.'s 26 Putdowns 27 Connecting points 28 Sacks 
29 Piece of neckwear 
32 "Let's Get • 
(1973 #1 hit) 
33 Star, maybe 34 '93 Sugar Bowl champs 35 W.W. I troops: 
Abbr. 36 Ace of clubs? 37 Aristophanes 
comedy, with "The" 
38 New Orleans sandwich, informally 
39 Solid swats 40 Emitted steam 43 Promotes 44 Kind of warfare 
"foV'VE C,OT I ICNOW, 
SY OotNG LETTING, ME 
SoME PEOPLE
TH-'T'lL SE WHAT?! 
NINE COS SOT I FIG­
HAVE No SUStNESS
WHAT? HAVE THESE
$1S'l.27. 
HERE, ICID. URE WITH 
SMARTS.
Fol< FREE.
I 

THE COURTS \ 
I 
PUTTING THE sc~ws ~ To NAPSTER, YOU HAVE -' GREAT OPPORTUNITY To 
WII"' 8ACI< FoRME.R 
tUSToMERS LIIC'E ME.:.·-.,...,..._• 
\... 

PORTS 
O
THE 
page 24 
BSERVER 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Junior forward Troy Murphy goes for the ball during Notre Dame's 78-71 victory on Jan. 27. The Irish host Georgetown In the regular season finale for both teams on Sunday. 
Irish ho~t Hoyas on Senior Day 
Sunday, is the last chance for Hans [Rasmussen], we want to By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Irish fans to get an in-person send them out winners." 
Associate Sports Editor 
glimpse of point guard Ingelsby The Irish (19-7, 11-4 Big 
and reserve center Rasmussen East) just suffered a 75-59 loss 
The Irish have already on the court -without packing at Connecticut on Jan. 27, but earned the right to hang a Big up their bags and heading for are still riding high after win­East West Division champi­the Big East or NCAA ning 10 of their last 12 games. onship banner in the Joyce Tournaments. Wrapping up the West Division Center, but they'd like to beat "We want to defend our title also scored them a first­Georgetown Sunday to give homecourt," junior All­round bye in the Big East seniors Martin Ingclsby and American Troy Murphy said Tournament next week. Hans Rasmussen a final home before practice Thursday. The Hoyas (22-6, 9-6), while game to tell their grandkids "We've only lost one game in stuck with the unpleasant reali­about. here in the conference. It's very ty of playing at the Joyce 
Notre Dame's final home important for us to go out Center on Notre Dame's Senior game, which tips off at 2 p.m. strong. Moose [lngelsby} and 
sec HOOPS/page 14 
Stung by DeviJ Rays
The Tampa Bay Devil Rays topped the Irish 1 7-4 in exhibition game action. Irish outfielder Kris Bil/maier had a run-scoring single offtop prospect Matt White. 
page 19 

Friday, March 2, 200 I 
MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Shay looks to double his distance pleasure 
automatic qualifying time.
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Shay defended his 5,000
Spotts Wrim title at the Big East 
Championships and finished 
After its third place finish at 
second in the 3,000 meters. 
the -Big East Indoor 
Shay will be comp!lling in the 
Championships two weeks 3,000 this weekend. 
ago. the men's track and field 
"It's conceivable that he 
team shifted their focus from 
could qualify in the 3.000 as team performances to individ­well," Piane said. "And if you
ual ones. 
qualify in both, why not run in So when the lrish step onto both?"' the track at this weekend's After Shay, however, the Alex Wilson Invitational. the 
Irish don't have any other primary objective will be to athletes who have qualified
achieve qualifying marks for for nationals. The Irish coach­next week's NCAA indoor es hope that will change this nationals. 
weekend. "That's the whole purpose Piane said that junior
of this meet this weekend," Patrick Conway has an out­said Irish head coach Joe side chance at qualifying in Piane. "It's just to get people the mile run. lie f'inishPd 
qualified." 
fourth at the Big East The only male Irish athlete Championships, but needs to who is guaranteed a spot at run 4:05.2 this weekend. the NCAA finals is Ryan Shay. Conway's best mile is 4:11. The senior All-American ran Junior Andrew Cooper was a school record 13:52.66 in the only other individual the 5,000 meters at the Meyo champion at the Big East Invitational this season, which Championships. He clear!ld a was fast enough for an NCAA sec MEN/page 21 
WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Relay team set to set another record 
finals. head coach Joe Piane 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
feels they have a chance at Sporrs W rirer 
making the indoor finals. "They're going to run it this 
Imagine this -your relay weekend. and it'll be a really just broke the school record good heat," he said. "The and ran fast enough to earn ladies feel that they can do it." an NCAA finals consideration By running another fast time. So, what do you do time, the 4x400 relay hopes to next? impress the committee decid­
Run faster. ing which teams will compete 
That is exactly what the at the NCAA finals next week. women's 4x400 meter relay Running a provisional time team plans to do at this week­does not necessarily guaran­end's Alex Wilson Invitational. tee an athlete will compete in 
At the Big East Indoor the finals. Piane believes the Championships two weeks 4x400 relay would need to ago, the team of Kymia Love, run around 3 :41 in order tu Kristen Dodd, Ayesha Boyd, make indoor nationals. and Liz Grow ran 3:44.73, "Just look at all of their PHs breaking their old school -they could run it," he said. record and achieving a provi­"We'll just have to wait and sional qualifying time by just a see." quarter of a second. Even if the relay doesn't 
Even though they set their qualify, Grow will still com­sights on becoming the first pete in next week's NCAA Notre Dame 4x400 relay to qualify for the NCAA outdoor see WOMEN/page 21 
Men's Lacrosse
Baseball 
at Western Michigan 
vs. Penn
vs. Florida Atlantic 
Today, 7:30 p.m.
SPORTS ~ 
Sunday, noon
Today, 1 p.m. 
ATA 
vs. Georgetown
Softball at Ohio Scace 
Sunday, 2 p.m. 
at Jacksonville State Saturday, l p.m.
®
GLANCE •• •MJ 
Today, 2 p.m. 



VS. 

SHAWN NEWBURG CAMILO RUEDA 
PICKS Both James "Pirahna" Fishburne and Shawn "Knockout The Old And Bring In The" Newberg KEVIN are making just their second appearance at B1rngal Bouts, although Newberg has faced a
BERCHOU 
tougher opponent. Newburg Fishburne was hardly tested against an over­matched foe in the semifinals, but is the top seed
BRIAN BURKE 
and rightfully so. Hueda He has the best power in the division and will try to employ it in the finals.
JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Newberg knows how to beat a fighter who comes out swinging, and should not be counted
Rueda 
out if he lakes some shots early.
KATIE HUGHES 
-Brian Burke 
Newburg 
155 LB. 

VS. 

TOM PIERCE JEFF DOBOSH 
Jeff "The Pittsburg Kid" Dobosh verses Tom
PICKS 
"Frenchman" Pierce is a battle between Oobosh's skill and experience and Pierce's heart.
KEVIN 
In this one, pick skill and experience.BERCHOU Dobosh won a split decision against Pierce in last year's semifinals, and figures to win again
Dobosh 
with a strong all-around boxing style. BRIAN BURKE Pierce will try to counter by aggressively going af'ter Dobosh, but Dobosh has the skills to
Dobosh 
counter-punch effectively.
JEFF BALTRUZAK Pierce seemingly willed his way past previous champion Sean "The Erie Kid" Nowak in the
Dobosh 
semifinals, putting tog~ther an unforgettable final round of boxing.
KATIE HUGHES 
-JejfBaltruzak
Dobosh 
185 LB. 


Thompson really deserves this. He's waited a
PICKS 
long time for a title, and he really learns from his mistakes.
KEVIN 
He has the experience to anticipate Duba andBERCHOU the discipline not to let another guy's style over­Thompson whelm his own. Duba has the ability to stay strong through all
BRIAN BURKE 
three rounds, so this should be a good battle of Thompson endurance. Both Duba and Thompson have a great jab, butJEFF BALTRUZAK Thompson's are more accurate. Thompson -Katie Hughes 
KATIE HUGHES Thompson 


vs. 
TONY HOLLOWELL JOSHUA COLEMAN 
Tony Hollowell has already dethroned the defend­
PICKS 
ing champion Matt Fumagalli in this weight class, providing one of the bigg11st surprises of the Bouts so
KEVIN 
far.
BERCHOU The freshman has muscled his way through the rounds and will face sophomore Josh Coleman in the
Hollowell 
finals.
BRIAN BURKE 
Both I Jollowell and Coleman narrowly earned the Hollowell right to fight in the title match, with split decision vic­tories in the semifinals. JEFF BALTRUZAK Holloweli-'.s no-lose attitude has turned the first­year participant into a confident lightflr in just a fow
Hollowell 
rounds. · 
KATIE HUGHES 
-staffreport 
Hollowell 
160 LB. 

Captain Dennis "Thursday Night" Abdelnour
PICKS 
figures to carry his momentum past Jcrn Smith arid to the title he has been craving f'or !'our
KEVIN 
roller-coaster years.BERCHOU Joe Smith is a tall boxer with a well-dfweloped Abdelnour jab. 
Abdelnour has proven to be effective in neutral­
BRIAN BURKE 
izing taller fighters' jabs, solidly defoating Mike Abdelnour "The Militia Man" Melby in the semifinals. To win, Joe Smith will have to out hit the heavyJEFF BALTRUZAK swinging Abdelnour, effectively beating Abdelnour at his own game.
Abdelnour 
But after years of waiting, don't expect
KATIE HUGHES 
Abdclnour to drop the ball on Friday night. Abdelnour -JeffBaltruzak 
LIGHT HEAVYWEIGHT 

vs. 

MIKE VANDERPOEL PETER RYAN 
Pete Ryan looks like he's not even trying when he
PICKS 
fights. He's a true boxer and never goes for the brawl
KEVIN 
He has an intimidating presence when he steps into BERCHOU the ring. No one in Bengal Bouts can compete with his
Ryan 
reach.In VanderPoel's last lights, he was able to BRIAN BURKE get in some high jabs, but against Hyan that will really be a challenge.
Ryan 
With three titles under his belt, Ryan's earned JEFF BALTRUZAK the right to be cocky. · 
-Katie Hughes 
Ryan KATIE HUGHES Ryan 

, I l I : I .f ,, f, I • j t. 

..,.....
u 
t --
IONSJil PS 

.. 
---------· 
page 4 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March 2, 2001 


Bracing for a final fight 
By TIM CASEY Assistant Spor1.s Ediror 
/\round 4:30 on Tuesday afternoon, in preparation for a photograph sc~ssion, Pete Ryan slipp1id black 16-ounce boxing gloves onto his hands. IIP-stood alone in the corner of the ring, in a ntmrly ompty Joyce Center FiPldhouse. Sf~ccrnds later, he glancml towards Urn Section 5 1.1xit and saw the men's basket­ball ll1am walking by. on their way to practico. 
Suddenly, guard Matt Carroll 
noticed Hyan. 
"When am you fighting'?" 
Carroll askPd. 
"About 10 o'clock on 
WPdnesday," Hyan r,·plied. 
"(;ood luck, man," Carroll said. "Thanks," Ryan said. Typical convPrsation. Hyan, a imnior captain, aims 
for hi:-; fourth straight Bonga! Bouts title tonight. If he beats graduate studf'nl Mike Van<l(\rPrH'l in the light heavy­weight linal, Hyan will b<icomt> only l1H1 ninth four-time cham­pion in the program's 71-year history. 
With that notoriPty comes expectations. Like Carroll, countlnss other friends. acquaintances and fellow box­11rs have approached Hyan dur­ing tlw past fow WfiPks. 
"I try 1101 to think about it !the fourth titlel.ff Hyan said. "But at the same time, you can't ignore that. Everyone bugs me about it. They're like 'i\re you gonna win this year? You've got to get your fourth. Don't choke."' 
First round of bouts 
Denise llyan almost gagg1-1d. 
On Feb. 27. 1 'J9S several of Pote's high school friends drove to see Hyan, then a freshman, light in the heavyweight final. So on their way to Notre Dame, they stopped by the Hyan house in Muskegon, Mich. and asked Denise if she wanted them to bring anything for her son. 
Oops. Turns out Hyan had never told his mother that he was fighting. 
"She calls mn in the middle of tlrn afternoon when I was on my couch sweating bullets," Hyan said. "She was like, 'What the hell's going on?' She was so mad at me. I said I'm sorry but I can'l talk right now." 
During activities night earlier that year, Hyan and his l'ri1md (and current boxing captain) Brian llobbins. who both had never boxed beforc~. signed up for lhe Bengal Bouts. 
"Tlrny said I had a face for boxing," H.yan said. "It (his face) couldn't gel much worse." 
Hyan informed his parents that he had joined the club but they said he could not light I le assured them that hi> was just working out but would not par­ticipatll in the actual bouts. In the spring of 1998, though, Byan forged his parents' signa­
ture on the medical form and 
decided to pursue boxing. 
Two weeks prior to the bouts, 
while sparring with senior cap­
tain Dave Monahan, Ryan suf­
fered his first injury -a broken 
nose. 
"I was so pissed," Ryan said. 
"I jumped out of the ring when 
it was over and wailed on the 
heavy bag for 15 minutfls. Brian 
tHobbins] was calling mo the 
Incredible llulk. I was freaking 
out." 
He controlled his emotions 
and beat Michael Homcro in the 
semifinals. llis opponent in the 
finals was none other than 
Monahan. the defending cham­
pion. 
"I was like, 'What the hell?"' 
Hyan said. ''I've got nothing to 
lose here. So I tried to go out 
and not get hit." 
Good idea. 
Hyan used his quickness and 
agility to record arguably the 
biggnst upset of the tournament. 
The next day. he called his 
mothnr. 
"Sh11 's like · I don't care if you won. I told you not to do it,"' Byan said. "I thought I'd gel dis­ownnd from the family." 
Yet. he remains the third of' 
Ralph and Denise l{yan's six 
children. 
Continuing to win 
A few months after receiving the stunning news, the Ryans' told tho!i-! 1son they were disap­pointed but there was really nothing they could do. 
And for the past two years they have biien in attendance as Pete continued his dominance. Ile beat Alex Kent in the 195­pound finals as a sophomore and then defeated 250-pound Oan Adam in the heavyweight championship last season. 
"My mom usually leaves, goes to the bathroom and then· watches my fight in the guard station on a video," Ryan said. 'Tm just glad she comes down [from Michigan for the fights]." 
Ryan has also excelled in another campus tradition ­Bookstore Basketball. His team, the Majesties, advanced to the Final Four last year and the 6­foot-4, 195 pound Ryan was named to the first-team All­Bookstore squad. 
At Muskegon Catholic High School. Ryan started at forward for two years and played base­ball, golf and cross-country, as well. 
"lie's definitely one of the best athletes on campus," Hobbins said. "Pound for pound, sport for sport, he's one of the most athletic kids I know." 
Although he enjoys both sports, Hyan offers an appropri­ate analogy on why he believes boxing is much less predictable than basketball. 
"Boxing's always tough. even if you think you should beat the guy," H.yan said. "It's different than saying I should beat this guy in a (basketball) game of 
21. Because in a game of 21. if you play bad defense you don't 

Bengal Bouts 
four-time champions 
Bill Roemer '49 Mike Noone '89 Tim Reardon '63 Kerry Wate '92 Roland Chamblee '73 Mike Trainor '92 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Obseiver 
Peter Ryan has trained for four years with the men's boxing club. He faces Mike VanderPoel In his final bout tonight. 
Beginning his career with 
a major upset as a 
freshman, Peter Ryan has 
become the boxer to beat. If 
the senior pulls off a victory 
tonight, he will become just 
the ninth fighter in the 
Bouts' 71-year history to 
win four consecutive titles. 
get punched in the face. You've "At the end of our fall prac­arrive on Friday. They shouldn't 
got to fight to win (in boxing) so tices, 10-15 guys came up and expect Ryan to speak much. it makes every time you go in they said 'Thank you very "Really I haven't thoughtthe ring real. It only takes one much. I appreciate what you about anything else other than 
good punch." did. I've learned a lot,'" Ryan boxing for more than 30 sec­Thus far, no one has been said. "You're like, 'Wow, I guess onds for the last three weeks,"able· to land that punch on this really matters."' Ryan said. Ryan. But one thing has Prior to the finals, Hyan will 
changed since his freshman 
lie down on the couch at his 
year -instead of idolizing the Final fight Lafayette apartment, watch captains, Ryan is now serving as Rvan, dressed in blue trunks Braveheart, and visualize the one of the leaders of the pro­and Nike running sneakers. 
upcoming fight against 
gram. entered the ring for the first VanderPoel. 
As a captain, he arrives in the time in this year's Bengal Bouts "It's kind of' corny but that boxing room around 3 p.m. and around 10: 15 on Wednesday helps me calm down a little bit," works out for an hour. lie then night. 
Ryan said. "But then you start helps out the younger fighters Within five minutes, Hyan thinking four hours, three from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. and works hugged several friends at ring­hours, two hours ... " out again for an hour. Add in side after a unanimous decision i\nd if he won again?the administrative and fundrais­victory over Ben Df.ida. "That would be remarkable ing duties and Ryan spends 30 Onlv one more bout remains. 
considering I never thought I 
or more hours a week concen­Ilis· parents and most of the would even stick with this stu­


trating on boxing. rest of his family -two older pid thing," Hyan said. "To come
Anthony Ricci '80 Jeff Gerber '94 
lie would have it no other sisters, orrn younger sister and out with that would be prnlty way. two younger brothers -will sweAt." 





