
Community prayer guides campuses through tragedy
SUNNY 

Wednesday 

The Observer reflects on the power offaith in light ofthe community's
HIGH 82° 
SEPTEMBER 12,

response to Tuesday's tragedy. 
LOW 58° 
Viewpoint . page 14 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXV NO. 12 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Thousands feared dead as nation begins recovery from strikes in New York, Washington 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

As night fell, the city moved past the nightmarish scenes of people on fire jumping from buildings and braced itself for more pain: picking through the rubble for the dead and the injured. 
Just before 9 a.m. Tuesday two hijacked commercial airlin­ers slammed into the two tow­ers of the World Trade Center, paralyzing the city and the sur­rounding area. 
Shortly thereafter, a third plane headed for Los Angeles crashed into the Pentagon in Washington. D.C., the nation's defense headquarters. 
New York crews began head­ing into ground zero of the ter­rorist attack to search for sur­vivors and recover bodies. The downtown area was cordoned off and a huge rescue effort was under way. Gov. George Pataki mobilized the National Guard to help, and hundreds of volun­teers and medical workers con­verged on triage centers, offer­ing services and blood. 

One man caught under the rubble used his cell phone to reach family in Pennsylvania with a plea for help. 
"She received a call from him saying he was still trapped under the World Trade Center. He gave specific directions and said he was there along with two New York City sergeants," said Brian Jones, 911 coordina­tor in Allgeheny County. He would not give their names, but said the message was passed to New York authorities. 
Paramedics waiting to be sent into the rubble were told that "once the smoke clears, it's going to be massive bodies," according to Brian Stark, an ex­N a vy paramedic who volun­teered to help. He said the paramedics had been told that "hundreds of police and fire­fighters are missing" from the ranks of those sent in to respond to the initial crash. 
"I hope we get patients," said medical student Eddie Campbell, who rushed to help at one of the centers. "But they're not coming out. They're in there," he said, pointing down the street to where the World Trade Center once stood. 
Emergency Medical Service worker Louis Garcia said initial reports indicated that bodies were buried beneath the two feet of soot on streets around the twin towers. Garcia, a 15­year veteran. said bodies "are all over the place." 
Eight hours after the cata­strophe began, hundreds of firefighters sat on the West Side Highway or leaned against their rigs, waiting for orders to go into the leveled skyscrapers and 
see TERROR/page 11 



page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, September 12, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 





Becoming American 
I've never been an American. Don't get me wrong, I am a US citizen, I've just never been an American. How can I possibly find some­thing in common with 280 million other peo­ple? I would never let another one-word label be pasted on me, so I could never submit to being an American. 
The way I've always seen it, I'm one combination of one out of a million sperm that reached one egg that belonged to somebody who was created from another one-in-a-million sperm-egg combination, a pattern that extends back beyond my imagination. Ijust saw it as historical accident; 6 billion people, we all have to live somewhere. American, German, Russian or Spanish, it was all luck of the draw. Nationality seemed abstract to me, an illusion. 
But I think I have learned something about being an American in the last month, and espe­cially Tuesday morning. 
The first time I ever felt like an American was in a discussion group at the European Colleg~ of Liberal Arts in Berlin last summer. My group had a heated debate about our read­ing of the Communist Manifesto. The group consisted of two Americans and seven Europeans. Over the course of the discussion several Europeans made repeated negative remarks about the United States. 
This anti-American attitude was nothing new. Most of the European students at the col­lege had a very negative view of the United States, particularly with regard to America's foreign policy. It was quite normal to get an earful of how outraged they were that America did not sign the Kyoto Accords or continued to embargo Cuba. But the discussion of Marx took a particularly nasty turn. Students seemed to accuse me of being personally responsible for everything from rampant international injus­tice to the prevalence of McDonald's in their diets. 
I wasn't startled by their views on globaliza­tion; I was stunned by my reaction to their comments. I found myself defending a country to which I had never felt any allegiance before. 
When students railed about American culture taking over the world, I didn't care. When they complained about American foreign policy, I didn't care. But when they told me how terrible and stupid Americans were, I suddenly cared. 
I found myself defending people that I've never met and never will meet. I realized that I had never felt like an American until somebody attacked the way I lived and the people I lived with. 
I've always strived to treat people as individ­uals rather than as members of a faceless group. Perhaps, we are all individuals. But Tuesday morning I knew. at least in that moment, I could identify with a one-word label: American. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and mives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 


THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Wednesday 
. 
Lecture: Le~ Hamilton, student Q&A. 4 p.m. C· 103 Hesburgh Center 

. 
Lecture: "American foreign policy chal­lenges." 7 p.m. C-100 Hesburgh center 


BEYOND CAMPUS 


Campuses remain on schedule 
. Some college campuses remain• open for classes 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
While national terrorist acts prompted Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to cancel classes and other regular activity Tuesday, the University and College's response to the federal emergency proved unique among Indiana schools. 
Notre Dame was the only large Indiana university to close Monday. 
State schools Ball State University, Indiana State University and Purdue University remained open. Classes also remained in ses­
sion at Indiana 
..We're making this a day Tuesday but not
University cam­
puses around the ofprayer in light ofthe for fear of terror­
ist actions, securi­
state. tragedy ... ., 
ty officials at both
About 10 a.m. 
schools said.
Tuesday, 
Lou Nanni At Butler
University admin­
University, anoth­
istrators vice president for public affairs 
er private Indiana
announced the and communication 
shutdown of cam­pus activity. Saint Mary's released a similar state­ment within an hour. 
Officials at both schools cited pastoral reasons in their decision to close the Catholic campuses. 
"We're making this a day of prayer in light of the tragedy and mourning associated with this national crisis," Lou Nanni, Notre Dame's vice president for public affairs and communication, said Tuesday. 
Mishawaka's Bethel College, also 

LOCAL WEATHER· 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratures 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 12. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 



Thursd 
y 


Friday Saturd. 
y BO•--€> 
FRONTS:


Sunda~ 
.................... 
COLD WARM STAnONARY

O 2001 AccuWeather Inc.
.·.~ 
Prouurt: 
.

Monri6y ® © D D D D D B 
High Low Showers Rain T-slorma Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
i~7-"--,J/'v; 


,-./ Atlanta 82 63 Las Vegas Baltimore 78 60 Memphis Boston 72 57 Milwaukee



8,~,Q8QQ !) ~ ~ 
Chicago 81 59 New York 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~,;ies _c;;;~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 86 67 Philadelphia
V,a Associated Pr•ss GraphicsNat 
Thursday 
. 
Service: Basilica of the Sacred Heart Daily liturgy Daily Monday-Friday 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. 

. 
Exhibit: "Ten years of col­lecting photographs from the premanent collection." O'Shaughnessy galleries 



a religious-affiliated institution, took a similar step. 
The college canceled classes fol­lowing an 11 a.m. prayer service, according to spokeswoman Ann Krafcheck. 
Bethel officials also planned a 9 
p.m. prayer march around campus Tuesday and a question-and­answer session with professors today, Krafcheck said. 
In the wake of Tuesday's events in New York and Washington, Bethel also expressed attitudes comparable to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's toward campus safe­ty. 
"There's a concern about securi­ty, but I have not been informed of any additional security measures," Krafcheck said. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
only slightly increased security presence on the campuses 
college, classes remained in ses­sion, spokes­
woman Holly Baker said. The Indianapolis university held a noon prayer service and a 6 
p.m. candlelight vigil Tuesday, Baker said. Like Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, Butler officials also established additional counseling service hours and locations. 
Baker would not comment on security matters but said a discus­sion session for students, faculty and staff is planned for today. 
Indiana State University in Terre 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
Friday 
. 
Service: Basilica of the Sacred Heart Daily Liturgy Daily Monday-Friday 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. 

. 
Event: "Glexis Novoa Installation: A New vision for the Basilica" O'Shaughnessy gallery 


Haute heightened security Tuesday but maintained normal campus activities, said spokes­woman Teresa Exline. 
"We did have to cancel some lectures because shutting down air travel prevented speakers from getting to campus." Exline said. 
Counselors were also available for members of the campus com­munity traumatized by Tuesday's events or personally affected by them, according to Exline. 
Among Indiana schools, Purdue University perhaps took the most drastic security steps Tuesday. 
Campus police at the West Lafayette campus were on high alert, said Joe Bennett, Purdue's vice president for university rela­tions. 
"They've been informed to be actively looking for anything sus­picious," Bennett said of campus police who on Tuesday increased night patrols, swept corridors in the university airport and con­ducted walk-throughs of all cam­pus buildings. 
The security concerns didn't cancel classes or exams but post­poned some fund-raising events, Bennett said. 
At Indiana University South Bend, classes were held as sched­uled and administrators kept "a more watchful eye" on security, spokeswoman Kathy Borlik said. 
Classes at all Indiana colleges and universities, including Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, are expected to be in session today. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 
Saturday 
. 
Service: Basilica of the Sacred Heart vigil mass. 5 p.m. 

. 
Exhibit: "Rembrant Prints: Rembrants Personal vision of the Bible." O'Shaughnessy gallery. 


89  63  Portland  81  56  
80  62  Sacramento  81  55  
78  56  St. Louis  84  63  
76  61  Tampa  85  75  
79  63  Washington DC 79  64  


Wednesday, September 12, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Students and alums witness terror firsthand 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
As Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents learned of Tuesday's terrorist attacks in New York City and Washington, D.C., there was a collective sense of shock and disbelief on the campuses. However. for certain members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's family, the news of airplane hijackings and crashes was especially per­sonal. 
When Notre Dame sophomore Michael Federico first heard about the plane crash­es in his hometown of New York City, he immediately thought of friends back at home whose parents work in the World Trade Center. 
"I called a lot of people to see how their families were doing. It was really nerve­wracking," he said. 
Although Federico later learned his friends and their families were OK, he said what transpired Tuesday has had a signifi­cant impact on him, especially because it happened so close to home. 
"My first thought was, 'They'll never get those towers down.' Then an hour later, whew," he said. "I know I'll remember it for the rest of my life." 
New York City without the World Trade Center towers is hard to imagine, Federico added, because the buildings were such major landmarks. 
Some Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents were themselves the cause of con­cern for awhile Tuesday morning. 
Saint Mary's senior Sarah Rykowski is studying at American University in Washington this semester and her mother called Tuesday morning after learning about the Pentagon attack. 
"She needed to hear my voice," said Rykowski, who was in class when news of the attacks first broke. On her way back to her dorm, someone told her what hap­pened, but Rykowski thought it was a joke. \Vhen she finally talked to her mom, how­ever. Rykowski realized how serious the news was. 
"We had no clue when we were in class," she said. "I think it hit a lot of people hard." 
Resident assistants in her dorm went to each room to make sure all students had 
and crash at the Pentagon, Wheeler said 
her manager decided to remove employees 
from the bank, even though it was not yet 
being officially evacuated. 
Once she left the building, Wheeler had 
to make her way home without public 
transportation. 
"There were people everywhere trying to 
get home," Wheeler said. "It was chaos. 
You could hear sirens all over the place." 
"Right now, it's a state of emergency in 
D.C.," said Tom Roland, a 1998 graduate, 
who lives three blocks from the Pentagon. 
He explained that many Washington 
streets and buildings were shut down on 
Tuesday. 
However, Roland said his main concern 
lies in the fact that such an attack was pos­
sible. 
"It's a little disheartening to find a plane 
can land in the Pentagon," he said. 
In New York, Laura LaVelle from the 
Notre Dame Class of 1992, said she rode 
the subway to her Manhattan law office on 
Tuesday morning without hearing about 
the crashes. 
"Nothing was amiss except that the trains were a little slow. The World Trade Center stops were closed for police action, but that's not all that unusual." LaVelle said. She first heard what happened when she arrived at her office. 
Like most people working in area, LaVelle left her office early. As she walked home, she said, the people she saw walking in Manhattan reminded her of refugees in a movie. 
"It was really surreal." she said. "Everyone's in a complete state of shock and panic." 
Her husband, 1992 graduate Frank Illuzzi, is an emergency doctor in the city. A police escort helped him get to the hospital shortly after the two plane crashes, LaVelle said. 
Llke many people working in New York and Washington, LaVelle said she received many telephone calls on Tuesday from con­cerned friends and family checking on her welfare. Although she and her husband are safe, La Velie said she is concerned for some of their friends who also work in Manhattan. 
"I would be surprised is someone I know wasn't injured or killed," she said. 
Indeed, for many people personally affected by the tragedy, it was difficult to find out what happened to family and friends in the World Trade Center, Pentagon or on one of the hijacked planes. 
'Tm from New York, so my first reaction was [to think of] friends and family that live in the city, and also in Washington, D.C.," said Steve Camilleri, who works at the Basilica. He said he learned of the World Trade Center bombing on the radio early this morning. The Notre Dame community has responded well. however, according to Camilleri. 
"It's so overwhelming, but what I saw here were people in prayer. That seems like all we can do right now," he said. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at LaRuffa. l@nd.edu. 
made it back to campus safely. Two other Saint Mary's students are participating in the same American University program as Rykowski and both are safe, she said. 
Notre Dame junior Lauren Berrigan is also in Washington, D.C., participating in the Notre Dame Semester Program. Berrigan said her parents were still con­cerned for her safety. 
"My mother was in hysterics," she said. ..She wants me to come home [to Las Vegas], but that's pretty much near impos­sible." 
On Tuesday morning, Berrigan was at the Ford House Office Building on Capital Hill, where she has an internship with the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe. 
Berrigan first heard about the two planes crashing into the World Trade Center when someone from a nearby office called to tell workers in her office about the event. She and her co-workers 
was in a different part of the city 
"We could see a good deal of smoke com­ing from the Pentagon, so that was very eerie. The entire time, I felt like I was in a movie -Independence Day or such," she said. 
The Notre Dame Washington program advised students to stay in their apart­ments and to not go to their internships, according to Berrigan. Their classes have been canceled for the rest of the week. 
Berrigan was originally supposed to have an internship with the Defense Department, which would have placed her in the Pentagon during the attack. Berrigan said she is grateful that she found a ditrer­ent position. 
As news about the attacks became known on Tuesday, many television pun­dits began comparing the events to Pearl Harbor. Both Federico and Rykowski said they think Tuesday's attack was worse 
than the attack on Pearl 

then began watching Harbor in 1941. 
"My mother was in 
news reports on tele­"Pearl Harbor was some­vision, but at first they hysterics. She wants me thing we could clearly did not really what to come come [to Las respond to because there they were watching was an obvious culprit,"
Vegas]. but that's pretty 
would soon directly Rykowski said. "I would affect them. much impossible." say that this is over and "It didn't seem rele­above Pearl Harhor." vant at the time, and "It's a comparison
Lauren Berrigan 

we were still in between threats. The old
Notre Dame junior
shock," Berrigan said. threats the U.S. was faced 
"Then, we noticed a caption of the bottom of the screen that mentioned a fire at the Pentagon, but we hadn't seen any real footage of it, so we weren't concerned until [family members] began calling in and we began seeing the fire." 
Before long, the Ford Building, along with everything else on Capitol Hill, was evacuated on Tuesday morning, according to Berrigan. A co-worker drove her back to her apartment. 
"At that time, the Metro [subway] was closed, and I really didn't want to take it back even if it had been open," said Berrigan. "I know some people who did [earlier], but to me, that just seems like set­ting yourself in a very dangerous situation." 
As she rode home. Berrigan said she could see signs of the plane crash that occurred at the Pentagon, even though it 
with were warfare and 
bombs. Now it's terror­ism," Federico said. "Today, it's even worse, because there's no face behind it." 
Tuesday's attacks will also make Federico and Rykowski feel less safe, even in situations in which they once felt very safe. 
Although the buildings had been targets of terrorism before, Federico said he never felt afraid in New York City before. 
"Now, I will be pretty afraid. If I go to the Statue of Liberty or the Empire State Building, will someone blow it down while I'm in it?" he said. 
For Rykowski, who said she and her fam­ily frequently travel on airplanes, the fact that planes were hijacked was especially troublesome. 
"I used to feel safe when I was in the air," she said. "This makes me not want to fly." 
Many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates were also working in Washington, D.C. and New York City on Tuesday. 
One member of Notre Dame's class of 2000, Kristin Wheeler, works for a Washington accounting firm. On Tuesday morning, she was visiting a client at the Export Import Bank, a federal building near the White House. Someone came into the office to tell her a plane crashed into the World Trade Center. she said. After learning about the second New York crash 

I' I 
Join Catering By...Design and work for the best IF YOU WORK MSU, use, & TENN 8am -1pm YOU WILL RECEIVE $50.00 PLUS $6.35 AN HOUR AND GRATUITIES ALL GAMES START AT 1 :30pm DRESS CODE IS KHAKI'S AND POLO SHIRT AND/OR WORK ALL FOOTBALL LUNCHEONS FROM 10am-1pm YOU WILL RECEIVE AND EXTRA $75.00 PLUS $6.35 AN HOUR AND GRATUITIES DRESS CODE IS BLACK PANTS, WHITE SHIRT WITH COLLAR AND BLACK CLOSE TOE SHOES AND/OR WORK ALL SET UPS 6pm-9:30pm YOU WILL RECEIVE $75.00 PLUS $6.35 AN HOUR PLUS GRATUITIES DRESS CODE IS JEANS, T-SHIRT AND TENNIS SHOES• Stop in at 612 Grace Hall to.fill out an application for employ­ment. We have server and breakfast shifts available. We offer flexible hours and great pay!  




page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 12, 2001 

Americans question future 
nitude might necessitate the whether the destruction of the 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
assistance of a state. World Trade Center will affect Assistant News Editor 
"No country is going to put the country's willingness for 
itself in the front of this, but free trade. 
Tuesday morning, the it's doubtful that any terrorist "The countries we open our­nation's largest city and one of groups would have the logisti­selves to do not use terrorism. its most important buildings cal capacity to do any of this," Unlike traditional international were attacked by terrorists, he said. relations, terrorism is a tool of ending thousands of American states that we don't even deal lives. After the Wold Trade with," Tillery said. 
Motives for attack

Center towers and . the The countries that trade
Th·e airplanes used in the

Pentagon were targets of ter­with the United States do not
attacks crashed into American 

rorism, United States officials tend to be these types of
symbols of military power and

will begin to assess the states.
capitalism.

nation's current situation and In the midst of the country's
Having occurred "in our

the steps to follow. mourning yesterday, George
national and cultural capital, 

Bush was determined to
this is probably the most_ con­

defend the country. "Freedom
Determining responsibility siderable act of this era in 
was attacked this morning by Soon after Tuesday's cata­terms of impact and national faceless cowards and freedom
strophe, many government consciousness," said Tillery. 
will be defended," he said.
officials pointed towards The terrorists appeared to 
"Make no mistake, the United
Osama bin Laden as the pri­want to penetrate the 
States will haunt down and
mary suspect. American consciousness punish these cowardly acts." 
"My guess is that it's a ter­because if they wanted to kill As Americans eagerly seek
rorist group," said Rodney larger amounts of Americans, 
to assign blame for this
Hero, Notre Dame government they could have bombed tragedy, some minority groups professor. "It's at a scale and a another location. Instead, fear that all Middle Easternmagnitude that's unprecedent-"they were hitting the greatest
d .. groups will face discrimina­
e . target for the greatest effect," tion.
Bin Laden, who has declared said Brown-Gort. "The terror­"People in the Mipdle East
a holy war against U.S. poli­ists were finding ways of caus­
generally love America and
cies in the Middle East since ing greater loss of life, military 
Americans," said Amar.
the 1991 Persian Gulf War, is damage and financial damage "People should know betteralso blamed for the 1998 so the choice of targets had to than to say this represents onebombings of the U.S. be the symbol of the heart of part of the world. The act rep­embassies in East Africa. He American power." 
resents the sick people who
had previously mentioned the Different generations react­perpetrated it."
World Trade Center as a legiti­ed to yesterday's sadness with We might fall into dangerous mate military target. various memories of the types of judgment, or rather,But officials aren't close to Oklahoma City bombing and stereotypes, and we have to beruling out other suspects; the Pearl Harbor. 
careful of that, he said. "We'reinvestigation is just beginning. "I think this is what our par-like a nation in the emergency"We don't know [who caused . ents felt when they heard room -stabilizing and reas­
the attacks] yet. Before that about Pearl Harbor, but this is suring people, being comfortwe should be cautious, but I happening in the continental 
to people. Right now the
could see some kind of pattern United States, not in the mid­smoke is still rising and thethere for the U.S. to suspect dle of the Pacific," said Amar. 
first thing is to care for people
some Middle East connection," Guo also believes that it is like around us, not finding blame.
said Li Guo, Notre Dame pro­Japan's attack on the Pacific. 
There will be time for other
fessor of Arabic Studies and On the other hand, Brown­things."
Islamic history. Gort says that in terms of life, Bin Laden is not the only this attack was much biggerAmerican enemy. · than Pearl Harbor. 
Contact Maribel Morey at 
"People who know realize "There's psychological and 

mmorey@nd.edu.
that there are a lot of people economic damage to the coun­who've resented us for a long try, but it's also affectingtime and can't be put on one's -all air traffic is 
Failed air security reaps U.S. concerns 
we are not comfortable sacrific•
By MARIBEL MOREY 
ing freedom to protect these [ter­
Assistant News Editor 
rorist acts] from happening," 
said Tillery. 

In the wake of four hijacked The Israeli airline, El Al, has American planes Tuesday, much been able to prevent possible attention has focused on airport terrorist attacks by taking vari­security around the nation. ous safety measures, including Infiltrating three airports, ter­longer searches before allowing rorists successfully evaded secu­passengers to enter the airplane. rity personnel in Boston, Newark "They haven't had a problem and Washington, D.C. [with terrorism], but it's a pain 
And the widespread security getting on and off the plane," breaches resulted in a nation­said Pat Farrell, Notre Dame wide shutdown of all airports, as pilot. 
a country contemplated the With Tuesday's four separateincreasing number of safety security breaches, it is possibleinfractions by airlines. the United States will head in 
In the meantime, advances in that direction. technology pose the biggest "The way we travel today does threat to airline security. not even compare with how 
"We have to recognize that we're going to travel in the technology allows people to cir­future," Castello. cumvent our ports of entry and Airport security has evolved in 
produce weapons that don't recent decades. show up. It's the uniform cost of "[In the 60s and 70s] they had technology," said Alvin Tillery, federal marshals on airplanes,Notre Dame assistant professor but the question is what can one of government. or two people do anyways," said 
The most pressing issue is Farrell. keeping unwanted individuals Although the American public out of airports. Once the terror­will ask for harsher safety pre­ists pass undetected into the cautions, Farrell does not believe plane, airport personnel lose that these acts can be avoided in most control because these ter­this way. "It's going to be very rorists do not need the pilots to difficult to be prevented at the guide the aircraft. airport," he said. 
Many of these airlines hire Farrell sees a future trend mini-security companies to work towards private airplane travel. " in the terminals, said John If people perceive that the air­Castello, United States customs lines cannot prevent suicide mis­agent in Miami. s ions like this, people will go "Many terrori~ts have exten­more towards private airplanes," sive military experience so it's he said. "Large corporations can not surprising that they can fly a and do rely more and more on plane and hijack it," said Tillery. safe travel because people are 
Other countries have stricter interested in security."security measures than the United States, and less security breaches. Contact Maribel Morey at 
"We live in a free society and mmorey@nd.edu 
everyone person's shoulders," said stopped," said Allert-Gort. Joseph Amar, Notre Dame "There's a lot of business not 

ATTENTION
associate classics professor going on." and director of the Middle East and Mediterranean faculty 
Taking the next step

cluster. 

CLUB OFFICERS
While many Americans gath­Others question Bin Laden's er-ed in prayer yesterday andsole role in the catastrophe. 

government officials reassured

"Everyone's first idea is Bin Don'tMiss These
the public of the country's sta­Laden, but the reality is that bility. other Americans were

it's probably extremely diffi­In, ortantMeetin rsi:
questioning the nation's

cult--it's probably too much future.
for his organization," said CLUB INFO MEETINGS
"I wouldn't be surprised forAllert Brown-Gort, associate 

Bush to take some decisive (ATTENDANCE REQUIRED FOR EVERY
director of the Institute for 
action against people harbor­

Latino Studies. "The next UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT CLUB)
ing things," said Layna Mosley, 

question is, which state is 
assistant professor of govern­behind this?" 

ment. Wednesday, Sept. 12 @ 4:00 PM Notre Dame Roo
Alvin Tillery, Notre Dame 
Others fear a more grue­

assistant government profes­Friday, Sept.14@4:00 PM Notre Dame Room
some future. 

sor agrees that a terrorist was "I'm afraid that it could lead responsible for the attacks. 
to World War III. It's a decla­"It'll take some time to sub­

ration of war and I'm afraid e CONCESSION STAND TRAINING.
stantiate some evidence and to that this is the end of an open
have a clearer picture," he 
society," said Chris Welna,said. "But it's pretty clear that 

associate director of the Thursday, Sept. 27 @ 4:00 PM Notre Dame Room
it's a terrorist." 
And since terrorists operate Kellogg Institute. "Why are Tuesday, Oct. 30 @ 4:00 PM Notre Dame Room 
you building missile fields?

at an individual level rather Just look in front of you." 
than a state level, it's hard to Brown-Gort agrees. 
identify which states to punish. FOOD SERVICE TRAINING
"It's enough of a shock that

"You're never really sure 
[which countries are the required response is that (HOW TO PLAN A PARTY)of a war and not a mere ter­
involved]," Tillery said. "That's rorist act." 
the problem." 
Tillery disagrees that a

The terrorists responsible Wednesday, Sept.19@ 5:00 PM MontgqmeryThe­
World War is to follow because 

for Tuesday's attacks are 
two blocks of equal power are ater (Vendor Fair to follow)
skilled, probably with the 
not engaged in a war of ideolo­capacity to fly because few gies and territories. 

pilots would allow their plane 
Additionally, "all of our allies VENDOR FAIR
to crash into buildings. 
are also against the movement"That indicates the level of 

and goals the terrorists seek. I Wednesday, Sept. 19@ 5:30 PM -7:30 PM resources. They were able to 
think the majority of the world LaFortune Student Center Ballroom
get people in the country, infil­
stands with America and

trate security and get people opposing terrorism," he said.
who know how to fly jet air­
Not only is the U.S. the world FOR MORE INFORMATION,VISIT:
planes," said Brown-Gort. 
hegemony, but terrorism is

Although Lin Baden is www.nd.edu/-sao/
also a weapon of the weak. 

wealthy, a project of this mag-
Other Americans question 


ATI 

Wednesday, September 12, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Afghanistan explosions unrelated: 
Explosions lit up the night sky in Kabul, Afghanistan, CNN reported on Tuesday. The Cable News Network showed footage of a series of flashes and flames in the Afghan capital. The report came hours after a major terrorist attack on the United States but is believed to be unrelated. 
Tank operation kills 2: Israeli tanks rolled into the outskirts of the Palestinian­ruled city of Jenin and encircled it on Tuesday in an operation which the army said was intended to prevent suicide bombers reaching Israel. The advance prompted fight­ing in which hospital sources said two Palestinians were killed near the West Bank city, and truce talks planned for Tuesday night fell through amid arguments over a venue and Palestinian condemnation of the tank operation. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Crowd beats motorist: The driver of a tow truck that accidentally struck and killed a 4-year-old boy on Saturday in Los Angeles was then severely beaten by a crowd of more than 20 people angered by the boy's death, the police said. The driver, Candelario Flores, 38, received severe head injuries and needed reconstructive eye surgery after the beating. 
Braswel won't testify: Almon Glenn Braswel. the businessman who was pardoned by President Bill Clinton for a 1983 fraud con­viction refused to testify today at a Senate hearing investigating his dietary supplement business. Braswell is the subject of a money­laundering and tax-evasion investigation by federal prosecutors and the Internal Revenue Service, court papers filed by federal prose­cutors in Los Angeles indicate. 

INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
'Typical' city hosts conference: 
The Indiana city once studied as the typical American community will host a conference on issues facing small cities across the United States. Scholars, urban planners and commu­nity leaders will meet this week in Muncie for a conference titled "Small Cities: Past, Present and Future." The gathering is geared toward the economic, historical, social, political and cultural traits of cities with populations of 40,000-100,000. 
Market Watch September 11 
Dow 9,605.51 0.00 Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 0 NIA 
AMEX: 855.35 0.00 NASDAQ: 1,695.37 -0.01 NYSE: 568.08 0.00 S&P 500: 1,092.54 0.00 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NOKIA CORP-ADR (NOK) 0.00 0.00 13. 75 PFIZER INC (PFE) 0.00 0.00 38 .17 DOLLAR GENERAL (DG) 0.00 0.00 16.17 GEN ELECTRIC (GE) 0.00 0.00 39. 35 JOHNSON&JOHNSON (JNJ) 0.00 0.00 55.62 
AFGHANISTAN 

reporters. 1996 under the protection say bin Laden has regular
Associated Press 

Muttawakil said the of the ruling Taliban reli­access to satellite tele­
KABUL, Afghanistan attacks on New York, gious militia. Washington phones and other sophisti­
Afghanistan's hardline Washington and else­accuses him of running an cated communication Taliban rulers rejected where in the United States international terrorist net­equipment. suggestions that Osama were "from a humanitari­work. The Taliban, who bin Laden, whom they are an point of view surely a A London-based Arab espouse a harsh brand of sheltering, could be loss and a very terrifying journalist said Tuesday Islamic law, have resisted behind the devastating incident." Asked whether that followers of bin U.S. demands to hand terrorist attacks in the the Taliban condemned Laden warned three over bin Laden. United States on Tuesday. the attacks, he said: "We weeks ago that they would After the attacks in East 
"We have tried out best have criticized and we are carry out a "huge andun­Africa three years ago, in the past and we are now again criticizing ter­precedented attack" on Washington retaliated willing in the future to rorism in all its forms." U.S. interests. with a blistering missile assure the United States Bin Laden, the exiled The Taliban say bin attack in August 1998, in any kind of way we can Saudi millionaire indicted Laden's communications sending more than 70 that Osama is not involved in the United States on have been taken away Tomahawk cruise missiles in these kinds of activi­charges of masterminding from him, but several into eastern Afghanistan ties," the Taliban's foreign the bombings of two U.S. sources close to him -apparently targeting minister, Wakil Ahmed embassies in Africa in including his family mem­training camps operated Muttawakil, told 1998, has lived here since bers in Saudi Arabia -by bin Laden. 
GERMANY 
Europeans pledgeto battle terrorism 
on their soil, expressions of solidarity Washington."
Associated Press 

and condolence poured forth. President Karl Kaiser, the director of the 
BERLIN Jacques Chirac of France cut short a German Council on Foreign Relations 
There was quiet discussion among visit to Brittany to return to Paris, say­and a Schroder adviser, said that the European officials tonight about how, ing he felt "immense emotion" over openness of democratic societies had when the United States struck back at these "monstrous bombings." He said been "bought at the price of vulnerabil­whomever was responsible for today's the French "are entirely with the ity,' vulnerability so hjgh that you can attacks, European governments and American people." conduct a war inside democracies." even militaries could assist. The The German foreign minister, For the first time since the British Russian president. Vladimir Putin, also Joschka Fischer, wrote his coWlterpart, burned down the White House and the expressed support for retaliation Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, a let­attack on Pearl Harbor, he said, "the against those responsible. ter of sympathy and solidarity, saying, Americans experience what Europeans 
As coW1tries moved quickly to defend "We are speechless and disgusted by have experienced: war on home terri­American embassies and institutions the terrorist attack on New York and tory." 
Wednesday, September 12, 2001 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Thousands attend South Quad Mass 
Community gathers to mourn, find support after terrorist attacks 
By ALLY JAY 
News Writer 
Roughly five hours after the last plane crashed, approximately 6,000 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, staff, faculty and their children gathered on South Quad to cope with chaos through a Mass presided over by University President Father Edward Malloy. 
As the sun shone down on South Quad, the Mass began with open­ing comments from Father Mark Poorman, vice president for stu­dent affairs, and Malloy. 
"From 8:45 I've been watching TV like many of you, listening to eloquent spokespeople and statesman trying to make sense of what happened. All I can do is to draw on the well of faith we share," said Malloy. 
Malloy also urged the Notre Dame community to take support and solidarity from one another, and to take advantage of the support 
strategies offered by those in the 
Coleman-Morse Center. 

"/ carne to experience Throughout the Mass, many stu­
dents followed Malloy's advice and
the unity ofthe 

sat on the grass, huddled togethercommunity as opposed with their arms draped around one to the destruction another. Some students were visi­bly teary while others appeared
I've seen throughout 
drained and shocked from the

the day and to pray day's events. for the healing of Although the feeling of sorrow seemed to permeate the crowd,
those injured. ·· 
students, faculty and staff had 
mixed reasons for coming to the 
Bryan Bull mass. 
Notre Dame junior · Professor's Angela Gugliotta and 
Michael Kremer brought their 
three daughters to the Mass. 

"It's important for our children to understand that compassion and forgiveness should be the center of our lives and the Mass tells us that. These are qualities that will be needed to rely on to stand against the hatred and anger that may be unleashed in reaction to this violence," Gugliotta said. 
Others came to the Mass to offer prayers for friends and family missing after the tragedies that occurred in Pittsburgh, New York, and Washington, D.C. 
"Two of my friends had internships for this fall at the World Trade Center, and are MIA. No one has heard from them," said senior Kathy Harter. 
Junior Bryan Bull also attended the Mass in hopes of finding sup­port from the Notre Dame community. 
"I came to experience the unity of the community as opposed to the destruction I've seen throughout the day and to pray for the healing of those injured." 
Others came to look for answers. 
"I don't have any answers ... I came to Mass to possibly find some," said senior Brendan Harris. 
Contact Ally Jay at jay.5@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

At,1()rS Fr()l}l rrl1f• IJ)ll(l()ll Stilgl1 
AMidsummer Night's Dream
•. ,. by William Shakespeare 
Thursday, September 20 .............. 7:30 p.m. Friday, September 21 ................... 7:30 p.m. Saturday, September 22 ............. 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 



SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Cannen Nanni Student Returnees 
Thursday, Septe01ber 13, 2001 231 DeBartolo 5:00-6:30 p.in . 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO APPLY FOR SPRING 2002. 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2001 for Spring 2002 
I>ec. 1, 2001 for l."all '02 and All Year 2002-03 Applications Available: ,v,vw.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
page 7 

Wednesday, September 12, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Students pack SMC prayer service 
About 400 from College community come to Regina chapel to cope with tragedy 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE News Writer 
They came to cope with disaster. 
Some came embraced in the arms of friends; some came with tears streaming openly down their faces. Some came with eyes pressed closed; some came with eyes wide open in disbelief. 
Student after student filed into Regina Hall chapel Tuesday after word ripped through the nation that Washington, D.C. and New York City had been targets ofterrorist attacks. 
Close to 400 members of the Saint Mary's community filled the resi­dence hall chapel beyond capacity, \\ith students, faculty and staff over­flowing into the hallways to participate in an emergency prayer service to 
cope with the disasters. 
Tear-stained and shocked students sat,

"We gather this 
stood and stuffed inside the crowded chapel afternoon at a time where College President Marilou Eldred offear and and Sister Rose Anne Schultz, vice presi­dent for Mission, led the service through
uncertainty. People 
prayer, scripture readings and petitions.

stand in fear and "\,Ve gather this afternoon at a time of 
disbelief and fear and uncertainty," said Eldred, who 
· fought tears throughout the 40-minute ser­

wonder why this 
vice. "People stand in disbelief and fear and is happening." wonder why this is happening." Students lit votive candles and prayed for those affected by the tragedy at a candle
Marilou Eldred 

memorial constructed in the center of the Saint Mary's president chapel. Voicing prayers for those in the mil­itary, family and friends stranded at the dis­aster locations and for peace, students wept silently as white flames danced on the candle wicks. Hundreds of students, faculty, staff and clergy also came to a Mass at Church of Loretto and the residence hall chapels throughout the day, I according to Campus Ministry. 1 
While most didn't know anyone directly involved in the terrorist attacks, many came because they needed the comfort of faith. "I just needed to pray," said junior Katie Rand, from Le Mans Hall. ,l 
"[\'\!hen I turned on the 1V] I started crying. We had to turn it off. It was just too much to watch." 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gill0843@saintmarys.edu 

The Societyfor Human Resource Management & The Management Club invites everyone to attend the . 

Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
William C. Byham 
Development Dimensions International, Inc. 
'' Leadership in a Team­Oriented CJrganization '' 
Friday, September 14 12:00 -1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditoriutn Mendoza College ofBusiness 
NEW STUDY OPPORTUNITY IN JAPAN! 
HAVE AYEN TO STUDY IN JAPAN? 
I 


You can now study in Tokyo for a semester Through University of Notre Dame International Study Programs. 
NO PRIOR LANGUAGE STUDY REQUIRED 
INFORMATION SESSION 
5:00 PM 

Thursday, September 13 116 DeBartolo 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR SPRING 2002: SEPTEMBER 15 

f 
I 
l 
i
( I 
page 8 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Students answer call for blood 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
News Writer 
When tragedy struck hundreds of miles away, many members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities rushed to area blood banks to donate for the victims of the attack. 
The suffering of so many, so close to home inspired many to donate blood. 
"There's probably some girl my age out there, who leads my same life, who needs my help. And to be in her shoes right now ... it would be scary," said Le Mans freshman Nina Helmen, who car pooled to one of the blood banks to donate. 
For nearly 30 men from Stanford Hall, the first instinct was to find a way to help the victims. Once they found out classes were canceled, they immediately drove down to the Central Blood Bank. 
"There was a need and we wanted to do some­thing proactive," said sophomore Aldo Tessi, who organized the trip to the blood bank. 
The blood was desperately needed to aid victims of the attacks in New York and Washington D.C., according to the Red Cross. The organization will send 80,000 extra units of blood to the New York region. To meet this demand for blood, the South Bend Medical Foundation extended its hours of operation last night and will extend its hours today. 
"We are in a crisis mode right now," said Mary Dunfee, donor recruiter for the South Bend Medical Foundation. "We are going to stay open as long as we need to be open for as many donors that want to give." 
The crowds of donors waiting to give filled three waiting rooms at the Central Blood Bank. 
The Stanford group waited for close to four hours to give blood but the trip was well worth it according to sophomore Joe Wyss. 
"When something like this happens, you feel helpless," he said. "This was one of the things we could do to help out a little." · 
Saint Mary's students also filled the blood bank waiting rooms to donate. Sister Linda Kors orga­nized vans, cars and chartered a bus to bring Saint Marv's students to the blood banks. 
A full charter bus with 40-50 Saint Mary's stu-

PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 

Sophomore Joe Wyss (left) and freshman Tim Brc.wn (right) wait to donate blood Tuesday. 
dents on it made one trip to the Edison Lakes Lab and Donor Center in Mishawaka. In addition to the bus, two vans and two cars made approxi­mately 25 trips to the Central Blood Bank, accord­ing to Julia Libecap, one of the drivers. 
The South Bend Medical Foundation has two locations for blood donation. One at the Central Blood Bank at 530 N. Lafayette Blvd. in South Bend and one at the Edison Lab and Donor Center at 4101 Edison Lakes Parkway in Mishawaka. 
Ruth locations will extend hours for the rest of !he week to meet the demand. Specific extended hours for this week have not been determined. The blood bank is usually open in South Bend from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. while the Mishawaka location is usually open from 7 :30 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Contact Mike Connolly at Connolly.28@nd.e<lu 
Wednesday, September 12, 200 I 

Attack brings past tragedies to mind 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 

Tuesday's incidents of four American hijacked planes, the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and extensive damage to the Pentagon may have brought to mind the 1941 Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, the 1963 assassination of President John F. Kennedy and the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing for elder generations who have witnessed prior tragic historical events .. 
The day left students to cope with what is likely the biggest national tragedy of their genera­tion. 
"This has to be the most tragic morning I remember," said Notre Dame sophomore and Welsh Family resident Rita Veron. "I don't remember being as affected by Oklahoma as today. It's not just one city, one building. It's on a huge scale." 
Students said that being more mature changed the way they viewed the two events. 
"For Oklahoma we got to miss some school," added Shea Helmle, a Notre Dame junior and O'Neill Hall resident. "Now we've become more worldly. We know people all over the place. You have a better grasp of things." 
While students recollected the Oklahoma Ci.ty bombing, Tuesday's events led Dottie Pratt, Notre Dame assistant dean and hhii.•,ry professor, to 
recall  the  assassination  of  
President  Kennedy  on  
November 22, 1963.  

"I was in junior high when Kennedy was assassinated," Pratt said. "I remember that it didn't seem real. It wasn't until I watched the funeral on TV that it hit me ... the world seemed upside down." 
Pratt said today brought back similar feelings of confusion and uncertainty. 
"It was strange today to see students used to safety and security get thrown upside down, just as I did [during the JFK assassination]," she said. 
For vValt Collins, a Notre Dame professor of American Studies who graduated from Notre Dame in 1951, Tuesday's events reminded him of the bombing of Pearl Harbor. 
"I was 11 when Pearl Harbor happened," Collins said. "It was a shock ... but we knew who the enemy was. The problem here is that we don't know who the enemy is, and if we do, what can we do?" 
Despite this uncertainty. Collins recalls similar national attitudes to the two tragedies. 
Collins described this response as consisting of disbelief and fear followed by retaliation. He noted the similar ways Americans remained glued to their radios on Dec. 7, 1941. just as today's generation spent most of Tuesday in front of the TV. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at thagard. l@nd.edu. 

*Summer internships and teaching positions abroad *Present a business consulting analysis to companies in Chicago 
*Design marketing strategies and advertising campaigns *Visit and establish contacts with major international companies · 

Gain valuable, real-life job 
*Compete against other students in the Stock Market Game! *Help keep the new Council web page up to date and lookin•g good! 
_1\I I ~I t\j,,1·s tt1•c \\lt_~I(.•() Ill(,~! 

experience and have the edge when interview time comes around! 
Join...The Council 
i 
l 
! 
Wednesday, September 12, 200 I 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Gas-guzzling motorists storm stations 
By KATIE HUGHES 
News Writer 
Gasoline wholesalers and retailers raised prices nation­wide Tuesday, sending many area drivers to lines at gas sta­tions to fill up before prices got any higher. 
Prices at gas stations close to Notre Dame were up to $1.89 a gallon, and were up to $2.09 in Michigan, while other parts of Indiana, including Anderson, Bloomington and Indianapolis, reached $6 a gallon. 
Rising prices  could effect  
travel plans for  some Notre  
Dame students.  

''I'Pl going away this week­end to Akron, Ohio. I wanted to fill up before it got any higher," said Josh O'Farrell, a Notre Dame sophomore from Siegfried, who was filling up his Jeep \Vrangler. 
Lines for gas reached out into the street as people waited to fill up. 
"I had to wait 45 minutes earlier today," said Carmen Sanchez of South Bend. "I fig­ured I better fill up before prices went up." 
Many students who talked to parents in other areas filled up 
after hearing of the price increases. 
"My roommate's parents called us today and told us to get to the gas station because the prices were going up to $4 there," said Anne Blair, a Saint Mary's senior who lives in Turtle Creek. 
Tuesday night, Marathon on Route 31 was at $1.89 for reg­ular, while 7-11 on Douglas was $1.99. Speedway on Ironwood was one of the area's lowest, charging $1.57. 
"I don't really care if gas prices go up. I don't use my car that often at school," said Michael Duda, a sophomore from Sorin who paid $57.30 to fill up his Chevy Yukon. 
"Because of the bombing. they're gouging us. Do they think they're going to cut off the gas supply? I'm not trying to play down the tragedy, but it's not like there's a hurricane or something. I think it's all trumped up," said Thomas Anglin of South Bend. 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this report. 
Contact Katie Hughes at hughes.39@nd.edu. 


Campus, region take extra security precautions 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Assistant News Editor 
Additional security measures were taken on both campuses and in South Bend Tuesday, but offi­cials do not feel students are at risk in the wake of terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C. 
"I think everyone is far more atuned to security, but we don't have a greater concern for Notre Dame's security," said associate director of pubUc relations Dennis Brown. 
More campus police officers than normal were on duty today and access to the Notre Dame through the main circle was restricted in preparation for the Mass on South Quad, but the increased security was not directly related to the terrorist activities. 

"I think we just have asked for more security in case of a problem during the Mass. I don't expect unruly incidents, but we always have extra security around when we get all the students together," said vice president for public affairs and communications Lou 
high level of client interaction 
generalist program 

affiliationswith top business schools 
develop quantitative &qualitative skills 

collegial workplace environment 
SOU nd interesting? 

Learn more about what the Investment Banking Analyst Program at William Blair & Company can offer you! 
Current analysts will be present to answer questions. 
2001 BUSINESS CAREER FAIR AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Thursday, S.~Pt!mber 13, 2001 The'I .,,·:<center 
6:oo p.m -8:30 p.m. 
WILLIAM BLAIR 

& COMPANY n., 'NEST ADAMS STREET CHICAGO, !LUNO!S 60606 W\,\W.WILUAMSLAIR.COM William Blair & Company, l.l.C. Is an Equal Opportunity Employ~. 
Nanni. Following the Mass, access to the main circle was restored. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Security had additional officers on patrol Tuesday night for pastoral reasons rather than to protect the communities.. 
"We will have someone sta­tioned at the Basilica and the Grotto in case someone is really struggling and we need to get a priest to help them," said director of Notre Dame Security/Police Rex Rakow. 
Even though Notre Dame and i1s Golden Dome is a major land­mark, officials did not feel the campus was at risk for attack. 
"We thought the chances for that were miniscule," said Brown. 
In South Bend, police officers were put on alert and the federal government closed the U.S. Federal Building and the U.S. bankruptcy court, but no major precautions against violence were taken. 
"We have informed all units to try and keep an eye out for any­thing out of the ordinary, but there are not any extra patrols on duty," said Capt. John Williams, public information officer for South Bend police. 
The police department is also discus.5ing the possibility of protec­tion for Muslim groups against any at home retaliation in response to Tuesday's terrorist attacks. 
"It's still early, but at this point we are talking about [the possibili­ty for retributions against ethnic groups]," said Williams. 
Like all airports nationwide, flights in and out of the South Bend Regional Airport were sus­pended by the Federal Aviation Administration and will not resume before noon today, at the earliest. 
"All air traffic in the country has been suspended. There is no word as to when that suspension will be lifted. The airport is at a height­ened level of security and is likely to stay that way for some time to come," said airport director John Schalliol. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer.l@nd.edu. 
• 
ltlO,.

§ 


~--.:-•)<!'ff

produced by ProShow and Celebrated Events 
september 23c~~?~ry center 
12:00 -5:00 pm General admission, $5 per pers0n at the door 
10:00 am -5:00 pm VIP admission, $15 per person, advance sale or:ly; includes luncheon with food stations and strolling fashion show 
reaister to win! 
a honeymoor, package sponsored l'5y Premier Travel a Superclubs honeymoon package sponsored by Travelmore 
contact 

Jessica at ProShow, 271-7469 for VIP tickets and more information 
Wednesday, September 12, 2001 

page 10 The Observer . NEWS 
Bush promises to promptly avenge terrorist attack 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

A grim-faced President Bush asked the nation to find com­fo r,t in Scripture as he mourned the deaths of thou­sands of Americans i n Tuesday's atrocities and vowed to avenge t h e i r killings. "Today, our nation saw evil," he said. 
In his first prime-time Oval Office address. Bush said the United States would retaliate against "those behind these evil acts." and any country that harbors them. 
Bush spoke from the Oval Office just hours after bounc­ing between Florida and air bases in Louisiana and Nebraska for security rea­sons. Fighter jets and decoy helicopters accompanied his evening flight to Washington and the White House, where his Marine One helicopter stood vigil on the South Lawn in the event of another evacu­ation. 
With smoke still pouring out 
of rubble in Washington and 
New York. Bush declared: 
"These acts shattered steel,' 
but they cannot dent the steel 
of American resolve." 


He spoke for less than five no ~arning of the attacks on minutes from the desk that the Pentagon and New York's Bill Clinton and John F. World Trade Center towers, Kennedy used before him. White House press secretary Beside the door, a Ari Fleischer said. TelePrompTer operator fed U.S. officials privately said Bush the words that he and they suspected terrorism his speechwriters hastened to Osama bin Laden, protected pen just an hour earlier. by Afghan government, was 
He stumbled a couple of behind the tragedies. The times even as he strove to Afghan government has maintain a commanding air. rejected the accusations. 
Aides pushed an American "We will make no distinction 
flag and one with the presi­between the terrorists who committed these acts and
dential seal behind him for the somber occasion. those who harbor them," 
Immediately ·afterward, Bush said. Bush joined a late-night meet­"Today, our fellow citizens, ing of his National Security our way of life, our very free­
Council and planned to dom, came under attack in a remain overnight at the White series of deliberate and dead-House. ly terrorist acts." ,.,-> 
Bush said the government "Thousands of lives were offices deserted after the suddenly ended by evil, despi­bombings Tuesday would cable acts of terror," Bush open on Wednesday. said. 
He asked The Oval 
the nation Office address to pray for "These acts shattered was his third the fami­statement on
steel, but they cannot 
lies of the the tragedy.
dent the steel of
victims and He began his quoted the American resolve.,, day in Book of Sarasota, Fla., Psalms, where he
George W. Bush
"And I intended to pray they President talk about edu­will be cation. The 
his command post in Sarasota elementary school Washington: Vice President audience that he was hasten­Dick Cheney, defense secre­ing back to Washington. All of 
tary Donald Rumsfeld and the that immediately changed ­White House national security and he was diverted to team. Louisiana -when a plane 
slammed
He then 
into theboarded Air 

"Today, our fellow Pentagon,
Force One at 1:30 p.m. citizens, our way oflife, a n d 
a Washington,
EDT for 

our very freedom. came 
too, was,
secret desti­

under attack in a series of u n d e r
nation that turned out deliberate and deadly attack. 
to be On Capitol
terrorist atacks. ,,
Nebraska's Hill, first Offutt Air lady Laura Force Base, George W. Bush Bush, who was to have
home to the President 
made her
u s 

St r a,t e g i c debut testi­Command, fying before which controls the nation's the Senate on education, tried nuclear weapons. Until three to soothe a horrified nation. years ago, the Strategic "Parents need to reassure Command also housed the so­their children everywhere in cailed doomsday plane that our country that they're safe," 
had been specially equipped she said, grim-faced. as she to serve as a flying White and Sen. Edward Kennedy House in the event of nuclear announced their hearing was war. postponed. 
White House officials were Laura Bush and a handful of 
sensitive to any appearance aides were whisked by motor­that Bush was not at the cade to a secret location away helm. from the White House, which 
Fleischer said Bush wanted had been evacuated but for to be in Washington, where the small c_orps of foreign pol­
Cheney led the crisis opera­icy advisers who staffed the tions center at the White basement Situation Room. House, but "he understands Fleischer said the 19-year­that at a time like this, cau­o l d girls, Barbara at Yale tion must be taken" with his University in Connecticut and location. Jenna at the University of 
At the first reports of Texas in Austin, were also attacks on New York's World moved to secure, undisclosed Trade Center, Bush told his locations. 
comforted by a power greater than any of us spoken through the ages in Psalm 23. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I fear no evil for you are with me." 
The United States received 

remarks were scrapped and Bush headed to Louisiana. 
He made a brief statement from a conference room at a Louisiana military base, assuring Americans that he was in regular contact with 

create@screenblast.com 
Change me. Crop me. Control me. Manipulate me any way you want. With the Screenblast Creation Suite"' of editing tools and personal Stash,"' you're notjust a viewer, 
you're a creator. Now get busy. 


~. ".,,~~~~~G~.,ti~t,t.i_

Ji ,, -, ... · · ·.· ':.... ·
• Visit The Observer Online .. 
. . : . . . . 

1. Sony Pictures Digital Entertainment Inc. All Rights Res~ 
http://observer.nd.edu 



Wednesday, September 12, 200 I 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
ogist volunteering at the

U.S. had no warning of attacks 
triage center said the experi­
Terror 
ence was horrific. 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

For all its technological prowess and military might, the United States didn't see this coming. 
None of the vaunted intelli­gence tools at the nation's dis­posal gave any warning of the coming nightmare -a mas­sively coordinated effort to hijack and crash at least four airliners at the same time. 
U.S. officials confirmed they had no reports that such attacks were imminent. 
Not from the CIA's networks of spies and informants. Not from the FBI's many counterin­telligence agents. Not from the National Security Agency's tele­phone and computer taps. Not from the military's satellites or spy planes. 
"If there had been successful intelligence gathering, we would have thwarted" the attacks, said Senator Richard Shelby, vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, which oversees the nation's $30 billion-plus intelligence budget. "There's never going to be perfect intelligence, but we cannot afford these kinds of failures." 
There were general warnings of possible terrorist activity, ones that come and go with some frequency. But nothing like this was foreseen. 
"This is a stunning security and intelligence failure," said 
· Mike Yardley, a terrorism expert and former Army offi­cer. "In both those spheres, major errors have evidently occurred. Heads should roll." 
The complexity of this kind of operation should have been its downfall, Yardley said. 
"To coordinate the hijack of four or more is absolutely extraordinary," he said. 
The U.S. investigation quickly focused on millionaire Saudi Arabian exile Osama bin Laden, who is believed to be in Afghanistan, U.S. officials said. 
Intelligence agents listened to a conversation between two affiliates of bin Laden saying they had hit two targets in the United States, said Senator Orrin Hatch. 
"I'm really ticked off," Hatch said. "We should have bin Laden on the defensive so he would be thinking about how we are going to take them rather than him plotting mas­sive terrorist plots." 

"We should have kept bin Laden on the defensive," Hatch said. "That is more than intelli­gence, that is a military opera­tion." 
John Martin, a former Justice Department official who prose­cuted espionage cases, said, "It is a failure of security and intelligence collection." 
"The clues and the investiga­tion are going to be as difficult as the intelligence that was never there leading up to this," said Martin. 
Asked about the critical statements of the intelligence community, CIA spokesman Mark Mansfield said, "The CIA has worked diligently and relentlessly to try to counter terrorism. Our resources are being devoted to d.etermining who was responsible for these horrendous attacks, and it doesn't serve any useful pur­pose in light of that to respond to such criticism." 
Senator Bob Graham, chair­man of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said that if the United States finds that the attacks were state-assisted, "We should be prepared to take warlike activities." 
continued from pagel 
search for what they feared would be hundreds of bodies -including many colleagues. 
"This is going to hurt," said Jack Gerber, a 43-year-old Brooklyn firefighter. "A lot of guys got killed today." 
He said that after the first building collapsed, surviving firefighters passed cell phones around to tell their loved ones they were alive. 
Barbara Kalvig hurried with a car full of colleagues from the New York Veterinarians. Hospital to lend a hand at a triage center opened up by the city's Board of Health. 
"We closed the hospital and brought a bunch of doctors and nurses," Kalvig said. "We just drove as far as we could." 
Hundreds of volunteers with medical, military or nursing experience formed ad-hoc crews to accept blood dona­tions and take care of minor injuries as truckloads of med­ical supplies flooded in. 
Nearby, a construction crew hauled plywood to the emer­gency teams to be used as makeshift stretchers for res­cue crews. 
Craig Senzon, 29, a neurol­"We felt a heaviness inside 
use that none of us have ever 
felt before," Senzon said. 
Hundreds were taken to 
hospitals, nursing homes and 
triage centers. 
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said 
some 1,500 "walking wound­
ed" were at a mobile hospital 
in New Jersey's Liberty State 
Park, near the Statue of 
Liberty. 
A few blocks away from the 
World Trade Center, about 
120 doctors and people with 
medical training traveled in a 
convoy of pickup trucks, 
ambulances, a dump truck 
and SUVs toward the wreck­
age. 
Their job: To find survivors 
and try to save them. 
Among them was Andrew Gray, a 26-year-old New Yorker with rescue worker experience. Gray had been · told he'd be helping burn vic­
tims. 
Gray, like many others, sim­
ply left his apartment after 
the blasts, looking to see how 
he could help. "I left my 
apartment with no idea what 
I was going to do," he said. 
"It's shocking to think that 
human life is so cheap to 
these people." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST WHITE GOLD NUGGET NECK­LACE. PROBABLY NEAR REGINA HALL AT SAINT MARY'S. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. THIS IS INSURED SO WE WILL BE PID IF NOT SURRENDERED. BUT WE WANT IT BACK, PLEASE. CALL 765-659-4928. 
HANDSOME REWARD. NO QUESTIONS ASKED 
Lost High School Class Ring Chillicothe High School Jessica inscribed on the inside Please return! Girlfriend will kill me Please call 634-3580 
Lost a silver bracelet possibly in South Quad directly outside Dillon Hall's front door. Bracelet has a gold plate with the inscrip­tion "T J 1999 LIV.· If found, please call 4­0951 and leave a message forTJ. REWARD over $50. 
WANTED 
ROOMMATE WANTED: Looking for a male or female rommate for house off-campus at 822 N. Francis St. Close to campus. If interested, call 288-8249 
Seeking part-time Daycare provider for two childen. Granger area. Own transportation required, References. Call 277 -1622. 
RESPONSIBLE, QUALITY CHILDCARE NEEDED in my home for 3 year old & 7 month old. Monday thru Thursday 2:30 pm -5 pm. 1 Saturday a month. Own transportation required. 5 mins from ND. Major in early childhood development or child psychology a plus. References required. Call 288-6795. 
LOVE KIDS? WANT TO EARN GOOD $$ BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS A WEEK? Area family needs individual to care for our two daughters Mon-Fri from 3-6prn starting mid-Sept. Mom attends grad school in Chicago. Girls are fun and delightful! Transportation needed. Generous pay! If interested, please call Karen Stonehill at 272-5013. 
ON CALL BABYSITTER NEEDED. NEAR ND. FOR DETAILS CALL 273-2872. 
WANTED: 
Highly organized, experienced legal secre­
tary or assistant to Pl trial lawyer for new, 
spacious offices next to Notre Dame cam­
pus; hours flexible; competitive pay and 
benefits.. 
Call 231-1868 and leave message. 
Sitter wanted by professor for two boys 
(7&10) some evenings and late afternoons. 
Constable.1 @nd edu or 234-9597 
Wanted by elderly couple a responsible 
man or woman graduate student to drive 
our car for errands or short drives from our 
home in ND neighborhood Wages per 
hour negotiable. 288-0074 
Wanted by elderly couple a responsible man or woman graduate student to drive our car for errands or short drives from our home in ND neighborhood. Wages per hour negotiable. 288-0074. 
Babysitter needed Seeking experienced caregiver to help mother with oddler and infant in our home. Needing assistance 2 times per week in later afternoon. Must have own transporta­tion. Training in CPR and first aid preferred. $7.00 per hour. Please call 219-287-5086 for appointment 
WANTED: 
Assistant to trial layer with desktop publish­ing skills for new spacious offices next to Notre Dame campus; part-time or flexible hours; competitive hourly wage. Call 231-1868 and leave message. 
ROOMMATE WANTED: Campus View Apartments Private bedroom & PRIVATE BATH­ROOM!!! Large kitchen. Free parking. $282.5/month. Contact me at quw@nd.edu. Emergency call: 219-243-2383 
PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal shelter just 10 min from campus, urgently needs FOS­TERS and VOLUNTEERS for its cats and dogs. Please e-mail webmaster@petrefuge.com, visit www.petrefuge.com, or call 256-0886. 
IN-HOME NANNY needed to care for 
infant. Must have transportation 
Experience with infants and references 
required. 
Congact Dr. Knoedler at 631-4262 or 
aknoedle@nd.edu. 
Seeking student tor part time representa­tion on campus for screen print & embroi­dery company. Flex hrs and flex pay. Call Dave at 800·813-2113. 
After school care for two children, 3 pm ­
5:30 pm. Good pay! Please call Lisa 631­9947 or 277-8564. 
Looking for someone to care for/play with my 4 & 6 year old boys while I work in home office. 3-5 hours per week -flexible. 5 miles from campus. Tricia 232-1285 Looking for a female English tutor for 

Japanese native girl aged 8 in Granger. 
Twice a week $40 (1 hour each some time 
between 4 to 7 pm). Contact Yoshi at 219­
654-1219 
Mom's helper. 
Seek student to help with twins 10-20 
hrs/moth. Good pay. Full description avail­
able by e-mail request: 
JennyLack@aol. corn 
Babysitter(s): non-smoker, playful, respon­sible. Needed for various times: Mon & Th. Fternoons (12-5), Sat. nights. Girl 3, Boy 5. In Granger. 273-9476 
SEEKING STUDENT FOR PART TIME 
REPRESENTATION ON CAMPUS FOR 
SCREEN PRINT & EMBROIDERY COM­
PANY. FLEX HOURS & FLEX PAY. CALL 
DAVE AT 800-813-2113. 
Seeking part-time Daycare provider for two children. Granger area. Own transportation required. References. Call 277-1622. 
STUDENT WORK 
$14.05 Base-appt. 
Vector Mk!. is filling PT cust. svc./sales 
positions {5-20 hrs) 
Flex around classes. Scholarships. Cond. 
apply 
www.workforstudents.com/np call M-W 12­
5 pm 
282-2357 
ND prof seeks reliable person for daytime 
babysitting of 2-yr-old on MW 8:30 am­
12:30 pm. Generous rates. Well-behaved child. Transp. req'd. (5 min. from ND). 288-4170 or kbaldwin@nd.edu 
Spanish translation needed for educational 
material. Good pay. Work at home. IHRD 
(8-5, M-F) 273-8857. 
FOR SALE 
This terrific one bedroom condo in Woodbridge Condominiums is close enough to walk to ND. Why rent? Own this for $62,900! Cobntact Prudential One Realty or Cherie TeRoller at 284-2600 
Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen w/ appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000. • Call Doris at 254-1772 for more info. 
PARADISE LAKE Newly rehabbed, 6 bedroom, year round home on low traffic, al sports lake 30 min. from Notre Dame. Tranquil setting with spectacular views from every room. Near Cassopolis, Ml and Swiss Valley Ski area. $234,000. 708-203-2685. 
SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep posi­tions. Free Drinks and Free Trips available. www.EpicuRRean.com. 1-800-231-4-FUN. 
FOR RENT 

THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80­$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1 -800·418-9487 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS 
mmmrentals.corn 
email: mmmrentals@aol.com 
B&B 
4 rooms for N.D. football. 
3 miles from N.D. Best location. 
287-4545 

Spacious 4 bdrm, 2-story on private lane in 
Farmington Square. 2737 SF+ profession­
ally finsihed basement Call Jack at 280­
7730. Century 21 Jim Dunfree Realty. 
Villa-style· home for rent. 2 bedroom, attatched 2 car garage. Clean, Cross Creek subdivision. $850/month. 679-9480. 
Apt. 2-bedroom. $350/ person including util. $1 SO dep. Close to Notre Dame. 120 W. Cripe St. 277-9455. 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with ortho­pedic mattress set. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235. 219-862-2082. 
60x30 desk 60x30x72 desk + office chairs. 287-3373 ask for Cindy. 
Gentry used loveseat + chair. Taupe w/ 
muted pinstripes; wood trim -"Broyhill" 
$150 674-6150 

Futon w/solid wood frame $500. Krups cappucino & coffee maker $70. Sony cordless phone & answering machine $30. 277-0666. 
LOUD 3-way speakers. 125 w. ea. 12" dri­vers. $250 obo/pari. Call Mike 4-4695 
'88 GMC pikcup truck. Looks good, runs great. Call Mark at 273-0449. 
Canon Bubble Jet 4200 printer. $100 288-4241 
TICKETS 

BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 277-6619 
GA's 4 USC, MSU, TN, WVA 271-1654 WANTED-ND TICKETS 289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED 
A.M. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE AM. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 
ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. 232­
0964 
GA Tix4 Pitt gm 271-1654 
Buying some I Selling a few extra N.D. 
Football Tickets 219-289-8048 
A businessman needs football season tick• ets •GAs only• Will buy individual games 277-1659 
Wanted: 4-6 tickets tor USC. Seats do not have to be together. Call Nicole 233-8513 
For Sale Navy, WVA, Pitt, GAs 654-0168 
$$ NEED 8 TIX 4 WVU 915-241-5999 
ND-PURDUE fooball tix for sale. Cheap! 
AM · 232-2378 PM -288-2726 
Need 2 Purdue tickets! Call Maureen at 
233-8513 
NEED 2 GA'S TO TENNESSEE. WILL 
CONSIDER OTHER. CALL JACK 674­
6593. 
WILL TRADE TICKETS. ND FOOTBALL 
FOR U2. 232-0964 
WANTED U2 TICKETS. 232-0964 
2 ND-Purdue tickets for sale. 277-9322. 
Help! Need 8 WV tickets. Call Kerry at 
243-0928 
Need MSU tickets! Call Lora at 243-0928 
Need 4 Pitt !ix. Will buy or trade for WV. 
Call Chrissy at 4-1203 or e-mail 
cmaher@nd.edu 
PERSONALS 
SENIORS: 
Senior Portraits taken until Sept 21. Sign up now@ www.Laurenstudios.com while there is still space available. 
Yay for Phil! He aced his first med school exam! How can you not love him?! 
If you met a cute boy with blond hair and long eye lashes who treated you like a queen, wouldn't you be madly in love, too? 
Dean: The above is for you so you can give Phil attitude. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


us 
page 12 Wednesday, September 12, 2001 


ADAY OF YER AND MOU 
ING 


,,I 
Following the attack on the World Trade 
I! 
Towers and the Pentagon Tuesday morning, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community came together in prayer and mourning. Thousands of students filled South Quad for a community Mass while others quietly prayed at the Grotto searching for comfort in a time of tragedy. 
More than 6,000 students, faculty and staff fill South Quad for an afternoon Mass Tuesday. ber the victims of the World Trade Towers and Pentagon attacks. 


Saint Mary's students arrange candles at a prayer service in Regina Hall's chapel Tuesday afternoon. More than 400 gathered 
A prayer card with a picture of the ,
to cope with the tragedy of the terrorist attacks. 

several students and left In a circle ot 
"' 
' 
O
THE 
BSERVER 



Wednesday, September 12, 2001 
page 13 



PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 

An Alumni Hall resident hung a flag out his window shortly after the attacks. Flags across the country hung at half staff Tuesday as 
r. University President Father Edward Malloy presided over the community Mass to remem-America mourned the loss of thousands of lives in an attack on the World Trade Center. 




O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 14 Wednesday, September 12, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631•7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING ...... ...............................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT, ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer .viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE...............................••••••· ...................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
to meet the editors and 

articles published after 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Milu Connolly. 
Tragedy cannot destroy faith 
Sometimes, there are no answers. community held together in prayer, searching together to 
There are no answers to Tuesday's tragic attacks on the explain the day's events. Pentagon and the World Trade Center. There are no Thousands shared in the Eucharist on South Quad. answers to explain the attack on the heart of our nation. But Hundreds watched as students lit candles dedicated to loved as a nation left vulnerable by a brutal blow ones at a prayer service in Regina. Even more to our freedom, we crave the need for an Qt.The prayed the rosary on hourly intervals at the explanation. userver Grotto. They cried, they prayed, they hoped. 
No answers were found Tuesday as the And even among the countless newscasts that nation sat mesmerized by the seemingly constantly gave updates, to find the answers
Editorialinsurmountable tragedy that evolved on their hearts so desperately sought, the Notre 
our televisions. We were angry, we were 
scared, we were violated. 
And still, we have no answers. 
But even watching in uncertainty, the students at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame turned to the one place where they could find answers: in faith. Even following the tragedy where, according to President Bush, "our citizens, our way of life and very freedom came under attack," the faith-bound 
Dame and Saint Mary's community turned to each other. 
It will be weeks, maybe months, before the nation is given an answer to Tuesday's tragedies. The uncertainty will con­tinue. But even amid the confusion, Tuesday's displays of faith did give the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community one answer: 
No act of terror can ever destroy our faith. 
Pray for peace 
I woke up around 8 a.m. and I faded in and out of consciousness for the next few minutes. Through my half­closed eyes I saw sunlight and a clear sky. I thought about basic human con­cerns, such as hunger and my Eric Long desire to go back to sleep for a few hours. I also Viewpointthought about 
columnist 
extraneous things, like the amount of work I had to do that day. 

As I walked out of the dorm on my way to class, I heard several voices ­composed news anchorperson voices -coming from televisions in the dif­ferent rooms of the residence hall. Something about a plane crashing into the World Trade Center. 
I recalled an incident of a couple years ago in which a single engine plane crashed near the White House and I thought that a similar event had just happened. 
This type of thing blows over after a few days, I thought. I suppose I fell into the American mindset that this country is secure no matter what. 
When I got to class, I started to real­ize that today was not just another sunny, routine day. The professor, who is also a Holy Cross priest, had written the day's agenda on the board...Pray for peace" was scrawled at the top in large blue letters. The class consisted of a few comforting words from the professor, a few ver­sions of the news stories from my classmates and an early dismissal. 
As I shuffled back to the dorm, sev­eral thoughts came to me. First I thought about all of the flaws of U.S. foreign policy -our bullying and pos­turing, our at all costs protection of economic interests. I could under­stand why America would be a target for terrorist actions. 
But then a sense of horrifying dread set in. People had been injured and killed: people just like me with prob­lems and dreams and families. The casualties of the attack were not sol­diers sent with an understanding of combat and a willingness to die. The casualties were people who had rolled out of bed, maybe hit the snooze but­ton a couple times and traveled to work under a blue sky like they had every day. 
When I got back to the dorm I saw the surreal shots of a commercial air­liner crashing into a skyscraper, the smoke clouds billowing out over Manhattan, the streets cov­ered in powdery debris. 
I heard several com­mentators spouting the typical snap judgments, and I realized that there is more to come. 
I heard the phrase "act of war" thrown around.and all sorts of terrorist experts scrambled to assign blame to the terrorist group of the moment. 
I realized the broad implica­

;, .. ' · l 
tions of the attack .i· · f. ·J·'· · 
other in a world community. Looking around at a time like-this is disheart­ening, but I have seen the fruits of peaceful human interactions -I know peace is possible. The world can be ugly, and human beings are the only creatures that engage in large­scale war. But human beings also demonstrate empathy, charity and the desire to help one another. 
I'm sure that if the American mili­tary looks hard enough, it will "hunt down" the terrorists and "punish" them. But will bombings and war 
really eliminate terrorism? Of 
when I heard com­·· ,r_,jf ~ii?/'/ else? How often do we, as 
mentators discussing America's precious bal­ance of civil liberties and security -as though the price of free­dom had just increased exponentially. 
President Bush promises a dedicat­ed effort by the government "to hunt down and punish" the responsible parties -in effect, a promise of more violence, fear, hatred and death. 
"Pray for peace," the markerboard read. I like to think that human beings can peacefully live with each -'~Y Americans, lament the end­
less cycle of redemptive violence 

that plagues war torn areas around the world? Maybe praying for peace should be on every day's agenda. 
Eric Long is a senior PLS major. He can be reached at long.31@nd.edu. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
course ·not. It may temporarily placate the families and friends of the dead, but their sense of loss will endure long after the guilty parties have been punished. Pray for peace. I don't know what's right, and I'll be the first to admit that. All I can hope for is a little perspective from this tragedy ­and perspective is something I don't get a lot of, being a wealthy white male American college stu­dent. ·,~· Is personal suffering 
~f / remedied by inflicting 
·."' / suffering on someone 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Maribel Morey Myra McGriff Justin Krivickas 
Sports 

Katie Hughes 
Viewpoint 

Lori Lewalski 
Scene 
Peter Richardson 
Graphics 
Katie McKenna 
Production 
Jeff Baltruzak 
Lab Tech 
Amanda Hughes 
POLL QUESTION 

U.S. News and World Report recently released their annual college rankings. Did these rankings play a role in your college decision? 
Please e-mail observer.viewpoint.1@nd.edu by Friday to report your answer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"No matter how long it may take us to overcome this premeditated invasion, the American people in their righteous might will win through to absolute victory ... we will gain the inevitable triumph -so help us God. " 
Franklin D. Roosevelt president 
-------------------------------------------------------~~ 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, September 12, 2001 page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students and faculty respond to terrorist attack 
Terrorism is an act of war 
This is a national and global 
tragedy which weighs on all our 
hearts, and it is a personal tragedy 
for the tens or hundreds of thou­
sands of people who lost relatives 
or whose relatives were injured in 
the terrorist acts. 
Terrorism is a form of war. 
Terrorists cause pain to achieve 
political objectives. So far though, 
we do not know who the enemy is 
or what their war aims are. 
For a war, let us put things in 
perspective. We may have lost five 
or 10 thousand people today. 
Perhaps less, perhaps far more. We 
lost approximately 50 thousand in 
battle in World War I and Vietnam, 
33 thousand battle dead in Korea. 
So we may have lost today some­
thing near a third of the soldiers 
we lost in each of these three major 
wars. As these attacks today killed 
mainly civilians, we are all soldiers 
in this war. 
On the other hand, we have lost a 
very tiny part of our national popu­
lation and economy. We'll be back, 
and we'll be fine. This is not to be 
callous, but to suggest that looking 
at the long term and the big picture 
can help us remain calm and confi­
dent. 
Save for Vietnam, we emerged 
from all of our wars with many 
human tragedies, but really quite 
strong as a country. From Vietnam, 
our soul was tarnished, and our 
soul, our psychological sense of 
safety and well-being may well be 
the biggest price we pay when we 
look back at today with historical 
perspective. 
This was an extremely well orga­nized attack. Four planes simulta­neously hijacked, three making it right on target. As the hijackers likely had to kill the pilots and f1y the planes themselves, they had to be trained to fly some of the most advanced civilian aircraft in the skies today. 
We can guess that the plane from Pittsburgh crashed and did not accomplish its mission due to the courage of its pilots. Considering how much of this attack planning and execution took place on U.S. soil, this is a bigger intelligence failure than Pearl Harbor. Approximately 1,500 died at Pearl Harbor. 
It was also well planned in that the terrorists may have gone into the attack starting with only a few very light weapons and no truck bombs and still managed.huge dev­astation. We are lucky that weapons of mass destruction such as nuclear, biological or chemical weapons appear not to have been used. 
As we look to the future, there are several major implications and perhaps one silver lining. 
First, the United States may take a more isolationist turn. The United States will debate the continued • worth of our involvement and expo­sure in the world. Is the price paid today worth having troops sta­tioned globally and being politically involved throughout the world, especially the Middle East? 
I hope we do not take an isola­tionist turn for two reasons: We are 
so powerful that no matter what we 
do, people will always find a way to 
be mad at us. Also, if we turn 
inward, those states we help defend 
will have to fend for themselves. 
States from Japan to Turkey may 
be quicker to build nuclear 

weapons. Security spirals, tensions 
and arms races will likely acceler­
ate throughout the world if we turn 
inward. Political and military secu­
rity is a prerequisite for economic 
growth and stability, so U.S. isola­
tionism will in turn damage the 
world economy. 

Second, we will take strong steps 
to prevent terrorism from recur­
ring. This will pose a threat to our 
civil liberties and privacy. We may 
be happy to lose some liberty and 
privacy to gain more security. 
On the other hand, considering 
how much privacy and liberty we 
have already lost to corporate and 

government databases, all without 
much debate at all, we may lose a 
lot of liberty and privacy and not 
even know what happened. From 
airport security to monitoring of 
communications, expect many 
changes. 

Third, many experts on terrorism have downplayed the possibility that terrorists would ever execute an attack on this scale. In their logic, terrorists would never hurt their ability to achieve political goals and gain sympathy by such a large scale attack. The calming conventional wisdom of many ter­rorism experts is wrong. Terrorists clearly can cause massive damage and their goal may have been sim­ply to cause a maximum amount of pain. What goals are served by this pain, we do not know. But many who would wish us ill would delight in an isolationist turn by the United States. 
Fourth, the United States has always enjoyed a luxurious security situation: 3,000-mile wide moats and peaceful countries surround us. All of our major wars since the Mexican and Civil wars have been fought on others' soil. Those days are over. We are vulnerable. While the United States will prosper and be strong over the long term, we have lost our innocence. Airplanes and skyscrapers will never seem the same. Nor will the New York City skyline. 
The only silver lining I can see is that these attack did not involve weapons of mass destruction {WMD, which include nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons), so far as we know. While these attacks were certainly massive, a WMD attack could kill hundreds of thousands and a biological attack could kill millions. The silver lining is that our response to this attack will likely help us prevent and defend against possible \iVMD attacks. 
The best advice I've heard today is to find someone to hug. Do what you can to find peace and to help others. 
Dan Lindley 
assiscant professor ofgovernment Sept. 11, 2001 
Fight violence with love 
"Lord, I am not worthy to receive you, but only say the word and I shall be healed." This line at the Mass in the wake of the terrorist attacks reminded me of a scene from a previous Mass in my hometown. 
A mother and a little girl sat a pew ahead of my mother and me. After the congrega­tion dutifully chanted the same line, the little girl. na'ive and innocent, turned to her mother and asked, "Mommy, what's the word? What's the word, Mommy?" Perhaps the answer to the child's question is also the answer to the chaos and pandemonium 
.,­
plaguing our nation today. 

As has been illustrated, faith alone is not enough to perpetuate the elusive utopia of peace. The faith that the terrorists, these thieves of life, embrace is what moved them to the actions that they took. 
Instead, the word we are looking for is respect. Cambridge defines respect as polite­ness and honor shown towards someone or something that is considered important. I cannot fathom what could be more important than human life and the immortal human soul. 
From this whole ordeal, let us learn to live respect, breathe respect and breed respect. Let us learn to fight violence with love. Let us learn to transfer our being the victims into being the victors. . 
May God bless and protect our country, and may He, as an example for us, absolve the sins of those who have abhorred us. 
Tai Romero 
sophomore Walsh Hall Sept. 11, 2001 


Imagine living in peace 
"Imagine all the people, living life in peace. You might say I'm a dreamer but I'm not the only one. I hope someday you'll join us and the world will be as one." 
As I ponder the words of John Lennon, graphic clips of a collapsing World Trade Center flood my mind. While I pray for peace I am haunted by the image of a man sprinting for his life. It was as though I could taste the terror, feel his pain. With today's tragedy comes much frustration and anger. Americans feel vulnerable; reality smacks us hard and we recognize that we are not as safe as we might believe. The unimaginable happened, blatant acts of evil occurred and innocent people died. Fathers, wives, nieces and friends were unjustly taken from us. As I watched today's tragedy unfold, I questioned world peace. 
I try to imagine that the world will someday be as one. Yet, the United States was viciously attacked. Imagine that. Dazed and confused, I watched a live Independence Day and questioned the world in which we live. But in the midst of such evil, thousands of people gathered at South Quad together as one. This afternoon sitting amongst my peers and professors, I was overwhelmed by hope. I feel proud to be a part of the Notre Dame community. 
Life is unexpected and we take for granted much that we have. But when the unimaginable occurs we join together in support and faith. On this sad, emotionally draining day we joined hands and prayed together, expressing our sorrow for the vic­tims and a sense of hope for the future. Imagine that. 
Megan Horvath junior McGlinn Hall Sepe. 11, 2001 



page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 12, 2001 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Purdue practices amid national tragedy 
-1 
ISABEL DONOSO 
Chilean Political Activist 
:i~t · . .ear 

WILL SPEAK AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS ON
iet family nei 

WED., SEPT. 12TH
· fast ·· .•.· 4:00 -5:30 pm 
She will share with us her experience working with the Vicaria de la Solidaridad, the Catholic Church's organization which fought for the rights ofthe Chilean people during the military dicta­torship. She will also address current Chilean so­
Wet Your Whistle! 

ciety and the challenges today. We will share 
light refreshments, in Chile, known as ''onces." 
(and stuff your face) 
DAILYSPECIALS ~ 
Rated # 1 Hot Wings 
in the area 
Wednesday: 
$1 so Domestic Bottles of Beer 

Questions please email Kate 
Family Night -.Kids Eat Free* 
Diaz at kdiazl@nd.edu

·one free meal for each adult meal purchased CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
By PAUL TREMBACKI and DOUG HEALEY 
The Exponent (Purdue University) 
Head coach Joe Tiller said the Boilermakers weren't focused during Tuesday's practice. 
That was to be expected. espe­cially from players such as wide receiver C h r i s James. tail­back Joey Harris. defensive end Akin Ayodele and quarter­back Carl Buergler. 
As the team practiced in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on the United States, Harris and Buergler had concerns about family members who had not been heard from as of Tuesday night, while James was simply waiting to hear his sister's voice. 
"I heard she's all right, but I'm not going to believe it until I talk to her myself," said James, who planned to call his sister 


Morgan Burke
Julie, a law ..It was a stressful thing 

wanted the
student at 

practicing. There's stuff team to be
New York 

like that on your mind together in the
University 

aftermath of
who was not and at the same time 

the terrorist
injured. 

you 're trying to prepare attacks. on the
Tuesday 
for Notre Dame. " country.
night. 

"A lot of these 
J u l i e 

kids. we're spent hour after hour watching
James, who 
Carl Buergler 

their surrogate TV Tuesday morning. 
lives in 

Purdue quarterback parents away Inspired by what he heard
Greenwich 
Village about a mile from the World Trade Center. gave blood to help local victims in New York after e-mailing her family to let them know she was OK. 
James' mother, a Tampa, Fla .. resident, had been crying and frantically calling relatives throughout the country all day, which Chris said scared him. 

But Harris. who has a relative with a job in the World Trade Center. and Buergler, whose uncle was on a plane headed for Pittsburgh Tuesday morning. hadn't heard from their relatives as of Tuesday evening. 
"It's scary." Buergler said. "It's scary that something like that can happen. 
"It was a stressful thing prac­ticing. There's stuff like that that's on your mind and at the same time you 're trying to pre­pare for Notre Dame -one of the biggest games of the sea­son." 
Although Ayodele had some concerns about his mother's friend. who was in New York and eventually found to be unharmed, he was happy to practice. 
"It's something we can do out here to forget about that for a few hours," Ayodele said. "Our team's out here practicing and it's to our advantage to make us better, to get an extra edge. and hopefully we did that today." 
Tiller and Purdue athletic 
director 

from home," from public leaders, including 
Burke said. "So New York Gov. George Pataki you want to pull them together and New York mayor Rudolph and spend time with them; you Giuliani. Tiller decided to go don't want them back in dorms ahead with practice. or residence halls. We did that "Government officials said ter­and we'll continue to stay on a rorists need to know that we're normal pattern until we hear going to be at work at 7 o'clock otherwise." tomorrow morning and working 
Like many Americans, Tiller on straightening this thing out, so I figured that's a good mes­are as a nation and I said we sage. We all need to do that," should show that as an athletic Tiller said. team we're resilient and we can 
Before the full-contact practice bounce back." Tuesday. Tiller addressed the Tiller also had team chaplain team in the locker room and dis­Marty Dittmar lead the team in a cussed moving on. prayer for the victims. 
"I reminded them that as a The team then went about competitive sporting team we preparing for its game with are a microcosm of society," Notre Dame, which. as of Tiller said. "I listened to the gov­Tuesday night. was scheduled to ernment leaders and they all take place at 2:30 p.m. Saturday talked about how resilient we in Ross-Ade Stadium. 




Wednesday, September 12, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Purdue 
continued from page 24 
letic directors would be talking about athletic events in the con­ference, including Saturday's football games. 
"It's too early for me 
to speculate 
"It's too early for me to most likely

that games 
determine 

are going to speculate that games are 
be cancelled. I don't think it's fair to say that," Lister said. "I think it's fair to say they'll be dis­
going to be cancelled. I don't think it's fair to say that. ,, 
Sue Lister 
associate Big Ten commissioner gather at foot­

cussing 
ball stadiums

fweekend 
across the

sporting 
nation.

events]." 
The NCAA 

But even if the Big Ten decides 
has said it will comply with any

to play the games, the NCAA 
executive orders issued by

could still decide otherwise. 
President Bush. 

Conference commissioners from 
Already, all 

all 10 Division I football con­"The games themselves ferences were 
are insignificant in the 

expected to 
face ofwhat has 

discuss the football situa­happened today. " tion tomor­row after­
Cedric Dempsey

noon after 
no make-up

gathering NCAA president 
date has been

input from 
their respec­
tive conference schools. 
NCAA president Cedric Dempsey said conferences and individual schools would be given the authority to determine whether or not to hold any scheduled games. 
"The games themselves are insignificant in the face of what has happened today," Dempsey said in a statement posted on the NCAA Web site. "Our focus is entirely on the safety of student­athletes, athletics personnel and fans. We urge schools to make sound decisions about proceed­ing with contests today and in the coming days." 
The final decision may not rest in the hands of the NCAA. 
Government 
officials will 
whether or not it is safe for teams to travel 
by  air  or  if  
crowds  from  
35,000  ·  to  

100,000 should 
three games scheduled for Thursday night have been can­celled. The Ohio-North Carolina State game has been rescheduled for Nov. 24, while 
set for the can­celled Penn State-Virginia contest. 
The Pac-10 has cancelled all athletic events through the weekend, including three Saturday football games, the most high profile one being No. 1 Miami at No. 13 Washington. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at soukup. l@nd.edu. 


=============================-4: 
Cfotf,;"9 B,MOSS Compan~ 
3EPTEMBER STOCK UP! SAVE-UP! 
""' 40% OFF 
EVERYTHING IN THE STORE!* 
PLUS 
50% OFF EACH ADDITIONAL ITEM OVER 3 ITEMS!** 
1 DAY ONLY! THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13TH! 

•PERCENTAGE OFF APPLIED TO ORIGINAL TICKET PRICE. NOT TO BE USED WITH ANY OTHER DISCOUNT. DOES NOT APPLY TO PREVIOUSLY PURCHASED MERCHAN­DISE. PURCHASE OF GIFT CERTIFICATES, LAY-A-WAY BALANCES OR CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS. DENIM NOT INCLUDED. 1\0 HOLDS PLEASE. 
.. 50% OFF APPLIED TO THE LOWEST PRICED ITEMS AND Af>PLJED TO ITEMS #4 OR MORE. ITEMS 1-3 ARE 40% OFF. 
NHL 
Kings' head scout dies in crash
-

. Another scout also perishes in terrorist attack 
Associated Press 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. 

Garnet "Ace" Bailey, director of pro scouting for the Los Angeles Kings, was one of 65 passengers aboard one of the flights that crashed into the World Trade Center on Tuesday. 
Team spokesman Mike Altieri said Mark Bavis, an amateur scout for the Kings, also was aboard United Airlines Flight 175 -the second plane to hit the skyscrapers in New York. The Boeing 767 was scheduled to fly from Boston to 
"Our entire organization is deeply saddened and shaken by the loss of these two individuals. ,, 
Dave Taylor Kings' general manager 
Los Angeles, "First and foremost, we he was a line­
from both of their fami­lies that they were on Flight 175," Altieri said. 
Bailey, 53, who won two Stanley Cups as a player, was entering his 33rd season as a player or scout in the NHL ­his eighth as Kings director of pro scouting. He spent the pre­vious 13 years as a scout with the Edmonton Oilers, who won five Stanley Cups during that time. 
Bailey broke in with the Boston Bruins in the 1968-69 
season, and spent five years with the Bruins, win­ning Stanley Cups in 1970 and '72. He spent parts of two seasons each with Detroit and St. Louis, and three-plus sea­
sons with Washington. 

Bailey jumped to the World 
Hockey Association in 1978, joining the Oilers, where 
where the 
are shocked by the

Kings open 
tragedies that have

training c a m p occurred today. •• Wednesday. "We've 
Dave Taylor

received 
confirmation Kings' general manager 
mate of Wayne Gretzky. 
Bailey retired after that sea­son, then coached for one year each w i t h Edmonton's CHL affiliates 
in Houston and Wichita. He became a scout for the Oilers a year later. 
Bailey, who lived in Lynnfield, Mass., is survived by his wife, Katherine, and son, Todd. 
"First and foremost, we are shocked by the tragedies that have occurred today, and the tremendous loss of life that has taken place," Kings general manager Dave Taylor said in a statement. "We had a number of scouts traveling to Los 
Angeles today from all over the world as we prepare for the opening of training camp on Wednesday. 
" 0 u r entire orga­nization is deeply sad­
dened and shaken by the loss of 
these two individuals. We would 
ask that everyone please 
respect the privacy of their fam­
ilies and direct all inquiries to 
our office. Our thoughts and 
prayers and with their fami­
lies." 
Altieri said that Bavis, 31, was responsible for the scouting of college teams, and was instrumental in the Kings' drafting of David Steckel of Ohio State with one of their first­round picks in June. 
Bavis, who was entering his second season as an amateur scout for the Kings and lived in West Newton, Mass., is survived by his mother and two brothers. Ba vis attended Boston University, where his twin brother. Michael, is an assistant coach for the hockey team. 



page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 12, 2001 
turing Tiger Woods and top players from tours around the
Baseball 

world, would begin Friday with 36 holes. 
continued from page 24 

..This is a sad, sad day in Sunday"s New Hampshire 300. America," Woods said after said spokesman John Griffin. playing a practice round, which 
Baseball's minor leagues -he began about two hours their regular seasons over -before the initial attack on the postponed postseason games in World Trade Center. 
all nine leagues that were to The Tampa Bay Classic will play Tuesday. open with 18 holes each on 
"Out of respect to the families Friday and Saturday and a 36­and friends of those people who h o le conclusion. The same lost their lives or were injured schedule has been applied to in today's tragic events, we have the Buy.com Tour event in postponed all playoff games Oregon. scheduled for tonight in the The Senior Tour will remain United States," said Mike on schedule, with a 54-hole Moore, president of the National event that starts Friday in North 
Association of Professional Carolina. B a s e b a I I With air Leagues, the t r a f f i c governing body "This is a sad, sad s t o P p e d for the minors. d across the 
T h e ay in America.,, country, sev-International. eral golfers Pacific Coast, Tiger Woods were unable E a s t e r n . golfer to get to St. S o u t h e r n , Louis. Among T e x a s , those strand-California, Florida State, ed were PGA Midwest and South Atlantic champion David Toms, Phil leagues were affected. Mickelson and Davis Love III. ·The stadium of one of minor In hockey, the Toronto Maple league baseball team, the inde-Leafs postponed their trip to pendent Newark Bears, has a Newfoundland after Canadian view of the lower Manhattan airports grounded all outgoing skyline, where smoke filled the flights. The Leafs were to travel air after the World Trade to Newfoundland for training Center was destroyed. camp but decided to work out Major League Soccer post-Wednesday in Toronto. paned all four games that had Eric Lindros and the New been scheduled for \,Vednesday York Rangers were set to open• night. training camp at Madison In Columbus, Ohio, the U.S. Square Garden on Wednesday. Women's Cup doubleheader at "Eric called at 11 a.m. and he Crew Stadium involving the ' said everyone was fine,"Lindros' United States against Japan and father, Carl Lindros, told The Germany vs. China was post-Canadian Press. "He was sup­poned. posed to be downtown [in New The PGA Tour canceled York] to do a TV show but that Thursday's starts of the World was canceled." Golf Championship and two In Germany, players on the other tournaments. Nure~berg Ice Tigers hockey Commissioner Tim Finchem team, which has Americans said the American Express Paul Stanton, Chris Luongo and Championship in St. Louis, fea-David Emmaunder under con­
tract, voted against playing a game Tuesday against the Revier Loewens Oberhausen because of the attacks. 
In Nyon, Switzerland, the Union of European Football Associations said this ~eek's games will take place as sched­uled. UEFA chief executive Gerhard Aigner said there would be a minute's silence at all games out of respect for the victims 
"UEFA wishes to express its profound sadness and horror at the tragic and terrible events which have taken place today in the United States,"general sec­retary Gerhard Aigner said. "Our thoughts and hearts go out to all the victims of these dread­ful attacks and our sincerest sympathy to their families and friends." 
The Swiss-based International Olympic Committee expressed a "profound sense of shock and disbelief' at the attacks. 
IOC president Jacques Rogge expressed "deepest sympathy" to the families of the victims and sent letters of condolence to President Bush, the U.S. Olympic Committee and the Salt Lake City Organizing Committee. 
The 2002 Winter Olympics are to be held in Salt Lake City in February. 
A Wednesday news confer­ence scheduled for the Felix Trinidad-Bernard Hopkins fight was canceled. The fight remained scheduled for Saturday night at Madison Square Garden in New York. 

iimerT$ C)1d Town 1,p 
'Solatibl'loiifnci&hbodmdbu wlm~ndgliloltal"CII, wtk"me" 
PARTY ON THE PATIO 
Great food &daUy drink specials Fri. 9/14 Art &The Artichokes Sat. 9/15 Quick Change 
Mu,ic 8-lJ on the patio! 
1506 W. Indiana Ave. 289-1361 


WEDNESDAY NIGHT AT TH£ ALUMNI -SENIOR CLUB 
NENIOI& NIGIIT 
Come see your friends and enjoy the famous Cup Night Specials. 
Sports Cancellation History 
Nov. 22, 1963 -President Kennedy's assassination on Friday. NFL played that Sunday, college football games not played on Saturday. 
Sept. 5, 1972 -Munich Olympics suspended for 34 hours after 11 Israeli athletes slain during a Palestinian terrorist raid. Games then continue. 
March 31, 1981 -Assassination attempt on President Reagan, NCAA championship basketball game between North Carolina and Indiana was played. 
Oct. 17, 1989 -San Francisco earthquake, Games 3 and 4 of the World Series postponed until Oct. 27. 
Jan.27, 1991 -Super Bowl played amid tightened security dur­ing Gulf War. 
April 30, 1992 -Rioting in Los Angeles following the Rodney King verdict. The Los Angeles Dodgers postponed a three-game series against Montreal and one game against Philadelphia. The first­round NBA playoff game between the Los Angeles Clippers and Utah Jazz was postponed three days and moved to Anaheim, and the Portland Blazers-Los Angeles Lakers game was delayed two days and moved to Las Vegas. 
July 27, 1996 -Centennial Park bombing at Atlanta Olympics, games go on as scheduled. 
April 20, 1999 -After the shoot­ings at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colo., the Denver Nuggets postponed their NBA game with Portland, the Colorado Avalanche postponed their opening two NHL playoff games and the Colorado Rockies called off two games with Montreal. 
Sept. 11, 2001 -Terrorists attacks in New York and Washington, all baseball games postponed. 

~i~;t}~~.$~v :._:~:~~:i~idk~t::?tr,~~~~m~~(f~:m:it~~M,~l;c~~-"~ 


Wtdiscover Keistle ;,1 s 
~if· 

,,h,W,~,t~~'f~¥_,tkW~s1t-~~t~J 
-Great: Deli (in the Schlotzsky's "tradition") -Fresh Fruit Smoothies -Hand Dipped Ice Cream 
.,,;J\\'.\ -Live Music Daily at Lunch Friday & · Saturday Night -It's Kennedy! ~f_,\1'. -I000 magazines & Best-Sellers '-\:,\\1'.-Weekend Outdoor Grill 
· -Thurs -SaUNights, All Day Sun & Gamedays 
I /2 lb_ Sirloin Burgers. Brats, Chops, FAX . & Great Steaks PHONE 
243"9274 -------243~9272 


To all who are interested in running the 
,ao~,a 
I::ca.doo:r/c»..._.~door r_r :rft.. C :11': a,:n. d. :Fieid. Me~SO:II. 

Wednesday, September 12, 2001 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Apple@ Notre Dame: 
Giving you the tools you need to succeed. 










,-. 
0• 
1 \ .. C ,; ~ "' • IUIIIIIU 

iMac iBook Power Mac G4 PowerBook G4 
Starting at $825.-Starting at $1,235-Starting at $1,135.-Starting at $2, 040.-
AQQle & You. 
t ,_. 
~--...........;_-­

Apple is serious about your success, and to n1ake sure that you have the ~-· 11 :t tools to make it, we offer special Student prices that will give you the edge
V,o~-tl .,.,,.. ...,, .... ;PIii 
),,:~if\\,1"" 
/.,..:, -4 \ -­

you need. Between discounted hardware and sofware and other education• 
11,::.11 
~ 
~-.,.-', y_,,...~&!WuH \t~ 0-.-' °,CH<•_.I rro, 1.-n ,rqJ 

only special offers, Apple technology will ensure that you are well equipped
1,!N-'!~«-tu-...: 
·­
s.,,"('-a., J!~...('.,, 
for the coming challenges.
t' r..,
~ ... "11.trn 
........
-· 
~S-.1,---~l',,...tc-• 

Welcome to the Digital Lifesty_le_.__ 
o•,-.;:, What is the Digital Lifestyle, you 
.:_, ~•)l 1

~ ,o,il :/:i: IQ. J ~ii ..i •-: f ':_{i ask? Well, as you begin to use more 
• _,...,-pt ~ ~, ~.,.. Y:,,W. ~-.... .. ~ [__. ,. 
• 

and more digital devices, you'll find
Mac OS Xis the next-generation1 UNIX-based Operating ~vstem that'sjust as rock-sold as it is beautijitl. that your con1pute1~ and namely, the Mac, will become the centerpiece that ties all of your devices together. Rip MP3's and burn CD's, edit digital videos, syncronize your PDA, take a 
• 

picture, watch a DVD, or surf the Internet, the Mac is set to becon1e the hub of your Digital Life. 
Buy more. Save more. 

And to help you move into the Digital Lifestyle, Apple is giving students exclusive prices on everything that will help you get more from your Mac. When you purchase any Mac, you'll be able to purchase any or all of these items at these prices: 
.J'--~l ..t. .!'... -·-!! ;:  w e  
;r'-­ --·· :;-.... ....__ 1 .. -. ~~•_.J--"c'" '"'·-,a,,,._.,,:;;.,. ___ ..,,_, t--­•--.L -:..... f..;..:_ '.-= ~;;:l *= .~•lU •  
I  
I  
I  
·I  
.  

New Applications, Utilities, and Games are coming outfor Mac OS X 
all the time1 as are new 
Free with any lv/acintosh system purchase. -;,_-·'
features ji·orn Apple. For 
Normally $69. ­
the latest information, check out: www.apple.com/macos.,1.:/ 
Rio 600 MP3 Player 
w/ 32MB ofmemory for on(y $49. ­Normally $149.-, you save $100.­
Your Discount, Available Now. 
The Solutions Center is the place to be when it comes to getting your 
Student Discount. They offer great prices on computers, software, and HP 315 Digital Camera 
2.1 rnegapixel camera for only $179. ­
everything else Apple, just for students. Visit The Solutions Center, speak with 
Normal(y $279.-, you save $100.­
the friendly sales staff, and you'll be ready to move into the Digital Lifestyle. 
~ofutto>t> Ce1tfer Handspring Visor Edge 
Notre Dame•s Computer Products Store Impressive(v sleek organizerfor only $199.­Normal(v $299.-, you save $100.­
Room 112 Computing Center/Math Building (CCMB) 
Phone: 219-631-7477 

Canon ZR20 DV Camcorder Ii Think different. I Alf prices reflect Ed11catio11a{ pricing m offered by Apple Compllle1; Inc P1ice.~ arr The pe1fect tJlovie companion/or on(v $599.­subject to cba11ge without notice. p/c,ase i•isil u·uw.apple.comfor more information. 
Normal(v $699.-, you save $100.­










-· 

page 20 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 12, 2001 
U2 postpones ticket 

Officials shut schools down 
mid-afternoon Mass on South "We don't believe our con­
sales in light of attack 
By JASON McFARLEY 

Quad. cerns were exaggerated, but 
By SAM DERHEIMER 
News Writer 
In light of the tragic events in New York and Washington 
D.C. early Tuesday morning, ticket sales for the second leg of U2's North American tour have been postponed indefi­nitely, according to Joe Sassano, event manager of the 
Joyce Center. 
" T h e Thursday ticket sale for students and the Saturday public tick­et sale has been post­poned to a later date. What date that will be has not been deter­mined. We 
will let you know," Sassano said. 
U2 is scheduled to play the Joyce Center on Notre Dame campus on Oct. 10 at 7:30 
p.m. Sassano stressed that the tour itself has not been cancelled, or even postponed, only ticket sales have been delayed. 
"There is no conversation about the tour being post'­poned," Sassano said. "Right now all it is is a postponement of the national ticket on-sale 
News Editor 

Tuesday morning, several we do believe if there were to 
date." 

Other than the actual date of the sale, Sassano said ticket distribution will go on unchanged. Students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross will still have the opportunity to buy tickets before they go on sale to the public. Joyce officials said they also still plan to imple­ment the two-ticket lottery system in which all students 
"There is no conversation about the tour being postponed. Right now all it is is a postponement of the national ticket on-sale date.,, 
Joe Sassano event manager of the Joyce Center 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's shut down campus activities and operated on heightened security Tuesday following harrowing terrorist acts in New York and Washington. 
Officials at both schools can­celed classes and other cam­pus events by 11 a.m. Tuesday and announced a day for reflection ofthe national crisis. 
"Today is a day of prayer,"

who arrive on 
Melanie Engler, Saint Mary's

time to obtain 
director of public relations,

the first ticket 
said Tuesday. 

will then 
At 12:20 p.m., the College

receive a sec­
held a prayer service in the

ond ticket that 
Regina Hall chapel. A second

will contain a 
service took place at 4 p.m. in

lottery number. 
the Church of Loretto.

One number 
On campuses where stu­

will be chosen 
dents, faculty and staff claim

at random, and 
national ties, Tuesday's plane

the student 
hijackings and strikes on New

with the 
York's World Trade Center

matching lot­
and the Pentagon in

tery ticket will 
Washington kept many people

then be first in 
glued to television sets or talk­

school officials allowed faculty and non-essen­tial staff to leave for the day. 
Notre Dame recommended that faculty members be avail­able in their offices for stu­dents who wished to talk about the day's events, Nanni said. 
The schools took similar steps to cultivate a sensitive campus atmosphere Tuesday. 
Rectors and residence hall staff received instructions to be available in their rooms to counsel students. 
Counseling and campus min­istry representatives also stepped up their efforts, increasing staff and availabili­ty of services. To avoid tied-up phone lines, students could use phone banks set up for calling friends and family in the New York and Washington areas. 
Though they didn't fear ter­rorist action here, College and University administrators urged students to remain on campus Tuesday. 
line to buy a ticket to the show. 
Ticket prices for the show will be $46 for general admis­sion floor seats and $86 for assigned seats within the Joyce Center. Tickets sold during the student pre-sale and on the first day of the public sale will sell for cash only. 
Contact Sam Derheimer at 
sderheim@nd.edu 
ing on long-distance phone calls with loved ones. 
The most deadly act of ter­rorism on U.S. soil was cause for communal prayer at Catholic institutions like Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, according to Lou Nanni, University vice president for public affairs and communica­tion. 
"We're going to try to minis­ter to the community," Nanni said Tuesday morning prior a 


UNJON 
sept 1 2 -sept 18 

..... lecture, Former U.S. Rep. Lee Hamilton 

7:00pm. Hesburgh Center Aud ND Erasmus Lecture by Shirley Williams, Baroness Williams of Crosby. 
4:00pm. AcoustiCafe. 9:00pm -midnight. "Evolution" and 11Spacealls11 
• 

1 0:00pm. 
Comedian Andrew Kennedy 1 0:00pm-1 :00am. 
11 Evolution11 and 11Spacebolls11 
• 

7:30 & 1 0:00pm. 
ND Football. 
Hesburgh Center Aud. LaFortune Huddle. 101 & 155 DeBartolo. 
LaFun Ballroom. 
101 & 155 DeBartolo. at Purdue 

Second City imrov comedy group. 
7:30pm.  Washington Holl.  
11Evolution11  and 11Spaceballs11 •  
7:30 & l 0:00pm.  101 & 155 DeBartolo.  

Safety Forum.  
7 :00pm.  Alumni-Senior Club.  
Sophomore Class Rosary.  
7 :30pm.  Grotto.  

Student Government Town Hall Meeting. 
free. $2/$3. 
$2/$3 
$7 $2/$3 
I 
f 
I 
I 
\ 
r 
'THU RS 
1111 
.. 
¦11 
•G•••W
TUES 

9:00pm. Notre Dame Room Lafun. 
hundred students, faculty, staff be targets, they'd be more and clergy members gathered national or governmental in in the Grotto, lit candles and scope," Nanni said about the recited the rosary. possibility of terrorist action 
After  here.  
canceling classes,  "Today is a day of  Nanni Notre  said Dame  
athletic practices  prayer. ..  Security/Police remained in con­ 
a n d games and other  Melanie Engler director of public relations at  sultation with University President Father  
activities,  Saint Mary's  Edward Malloy  

Tuesday. 

Saint Mary's increased the number of secu­rity officers on duty and extended their work shifts Tuesday. according to Security Director Richard Chlebek. Both schools decided by 8 p.m. Tuesday to resume classes today. 
All activities will go on as scheduled, except Saint Mary's athletics events postponed due to a decision by the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association. 
"We wanted to wait and see what the president said," Linda Timm, Saint Mary's vice president for student affairs, said after Presid,ent Bush's national address. "He said the country should be back to business ... to get hack on our feet." 
Noreen Gillespie contributed ta this report. 
Contact Jason McFarley at McFarley. l@nd.edu. 



thursday
september 13 

6:00 pm -8:30 pm 
Undergraduate seniors, second-year MBAs, MS in Accountancy students (attire is business formal) 
friday

se~ember14 
9~0am-3~0pm · 
All students regardless of degree, major, college, or year (attire is business casual) 
joyce center north dome 
(hockey rink side), enter gate 3 
findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating companies, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to "careercenter.nd.edu" 

• 
Click on the "Go IRISH" title bar and enter username and password 

• 
Click "Jobs" and then "Find Employers1' 

• 
Scroll to and click on "Advanced Search" 

• 
Scroll to Career Center Events, click on "College of Business Career Fair;' click on "Search" 



THE 
CAREER 
Universityof Notre Dame 

Mendoza College ofBusiness CENTER 
participating a 
AAR Abbott Laboratories ABN AMRO/LaSalle Bank Accenture ACNielsen ACNielsen BASES, US Allegiance Healthcare 
Corporation Alta Pharmaceuticals (a division of Pfizer) American Express Financial Advisors Ameritech/SBC Global 
Network Andersen AON Corporation Applied Systems, Inc. AT&T Bain & Company Bank One Corporation Baxter Hea Ith ca re Corporation BOO Seidman Bloomberg Financial Markets Boston Consulting Group BP Oil Company California Franchise Tax Board Carson Pirie Scott & Co. Central Intelligence Agency Chicago Consulting Actuaries Citigroup Corporate and 
Investment Bank/Salomon Smith Barney Clarity Consulting Cochran, Caronia & Company Comerica Bank Crowe Chizek Dain Rauscher Wessels Davis Conder Enderle & Sloan Defense Finance and Accounting Service Deloitte & Touche Deloitte Consulting DePuy (a Johnson & Johnson Company) Driehaus Capital Management E & J Gallo Winery Eli Lilly & Company Enterprise Rent-A-Car Ernst & Young Factset Research Systems FBOP Corporation Fifth Third Bank General Electric General Mills Gibson and Associates Goldman, Sachs & Co. Great West Life Headstrong HEB Grocery Company Honeywell 

IBM Corporation lnteCap 
3 Janssen Pharmaceutica (a 
Johnson & Johnson Company) ~ Johnson &Johnson W Jordan & Jordan 
DI

Keane Consulting Group (formerly. Bricker 
:::,

& Associates) Kmart 
tD -· 
KPMG Kraft 
"' 

Liberty Mutual Life Investors Lincoln Partners Lutron Electronics Co. Marriott Vacation Club Mass Mutual Insurance May Departm~nt Stores 
Company Men's Wearhouse Morgan Stanley National City Corporation News America Marketing Northwestern Mutual 
Financial Network -Hoopis Group Oak Brook Bank 
Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical (a Johnson & Johnson Company) 
Peterson Consulting/Navigant Pfizer PNC Financial Services PricewaterhouseCoopers Primerica/Citigroup Procter & Gamble Company Quad/Graphics
. 

Robert W. Baird & Company SEI Investments Corporation Smart & Associates Spear, Leeds & Kellogg Stout Risius Ross, Inc. Strong Capital Management Susquehanna International 
Group Target Teach for America Technology Services Group Towers Perrin Travelers Insurance UBS Warburg ULINE UnumProvident The Vanguard Group VWCredit Watson Wyatt Worldwide Wells Fargo Bank William Blair & Company William M. Mercer 
........---~----­
Wednesday, September 12, 2001 

page 22 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush faces historic test 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

When the first ghastly images flickered across the TV, a top adviser to President Bush set down her coffee cup and cursed. "Oh my God," she said. 
From t h a t moment, it was clear that Bush would face a test of historic proportions -the shocking slaughter of Americans at ter­rorist h_ands. He was suddenly plunged into the first test of his presidency, one that will shape the public's perceptions of him at home and abroad. 
"This is the ultimate test, the ultimate barometer. This is why we have a president," said Antony Blinken, for seven years a senior member of President Clinton's national security team. 
Working from an emergency 

response plan first forged in 
the darkest days of the Cold 
War. Bush shut down the gov­
ernment and threw a protec­
tive shield around its top offi­
cers. 
Congress and Cabinet spirit­
ed away to secure locations. 

Air traffic grounded. 
Government buildings closed. 
Air Force One was en route 
to Washington from Florida 
when Bush ordered his plane 
to military bases in Louisiana 
and Nebraska before returning 
to the White House. 
He had to show the nation and the world that America would not run from a fight, but first he had to be safe. 

"You can't take anything for granted in a situation like this, certainly not the security of the 
president,"  said  Clinton's  
national  security  adviser,  
Sandy Berger.  

Clinton himself urged Americans to rally behind Bush, and said the new presi­dent had taken all the right first steps. 
That included expressing sor­row on behalf of a stricken nation, and pledging vengeance. 
"Freedom was attacked this morning," Bush said in the first go way beyond what the FBI was aware of." 

The next step -retaliation -may be harsh. Berger sug­gested the U.S. responses to previous terrorist attacks will pale in comparison to the steps Bush must take. 
"No single action will be suffi­cient once we determine who is responsible," Berger said. "We'll have to buckle down for the long effort." 
Berger remembers with anguish the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, a tragedy that struck while Clinton's political fortunes were at low tide. The Democratic president used the incident to help define 
of two sets of "This is the ultimate himself as a leader
remarks he test, the ultimate 
made before attuned to
barometer. This is 
voters' emo­

returning to Washington for why we have a tions. 
Bush has

a rare prime­president ... 
time address. the same "Make no mis­dark oppor­
Anthony Blinken tunity, the
take: The United States will hunt fonner security adviser same awful 
down and pun­ish those respon­sible for these cowardly acts." 
U.S. officials said they sus­pected Osama bin Laden was the culprit behind parallel attacks in Washington and New York. · 
Berger said fingering those responsible should be easy, because few terrorist groups are sophisticated enough to carry out such a coordinated attack. 
"This is a level of sophistica­tion that is beyond what any intelligence outfit thought was possible," Berger said. "The level of sophistication and level of presence here in the United States suggests activities that responsibili­
ty. 

"The president's position is almost automatically trans­formed from a partisan politi­cal figure to a symbol of nation­al unity, national strength and national empathy," said politi­cal analyst Stuart Rothenberg. 
Clinton refused to talk about the political implications, say­ing Bush has enough on his hands. 
"It's going to be difficult for him because you feel this as a human being and as a citizen, as well as a leader," Clinton said in a telephone interview. "The president will handle this just fine. He'll do a good job, as long as we stick with him." 
Attacks may hurt 
U.S. economy 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The terror attacks in the nation's business and govern­ment capitals may push the tee­tering economy into recession. analysts suggested. 
The Federal Reserve said it stood ready to pump extra money into the economy if needed to_ try to avert such a development. 
The Fed's promise to supply additional money to the bank­ing system was similar to a pledge it issued on the morning after the October 1987 stock market crash. That action, only two months into Alan Greenspan's tenure as chair­man, was credited with keeping the economy out of recession. 
Private analysts, however, said the Fed's magic of lower interest rates and ample sup­plies of cash may not be enough to overcome Tuesday's series of attacks. They came as the econ­omy already was struggling and consumer confidence was fal­tering. 
"The economy has been on a 
high-wire act straddling 
between a recession and ane­
mic growth. Now the terrorists 
have cut the wire underneath 
our feet," said Sung Won Sohn, 
chief economist at Wells Fargo 
in Minneapolis. "The United 
States and the rest of the world 
are likely to experience a full­
blown recession now." 
President Bush and other 
administration officials sought 
to bolster confidence. 
"Our financial institutions 
remain strong and the American economy will be open for business as well" on Wednesday, Bush said in a tele­vised address to the nation. 
The President's Working Group on Financial Markets said officials had "every confi­dence" stock trading will resume "as soon as it is both appropriate and practical." 
The group of Treasury and Federal Reserve officials, along with market regulators, coordi­nates government responses during market crises. 
Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, in Tokyo on Tuesday on the last stop of a weeklong Asian tour, said in a statement that "our nation's financial markets are strong and resilient." 
Officials said that O'Neill had 
cancelled his schedule for 
Wednesday, including a speech 
before the National Press Club 
in Tokyo and a meeting with 
Japanese Prime Minister 
Junichiro Koizumi. 
The concern among econo­
mists is that the-attacks will 
cause consumers to cut back 
further on their spending, 
which accounts for two-thirds 
of the nation's economic activi­
ty. 
Even before the attacks, signs 
of trouble were evident as 
Americans grew more worried 
about their jobs with each fresh 
round of layoff announcements. 
The government had reported 
last Friday that the unemploy­
ment rate shot up to 4.9 per­
cent in August as job losses in 
manufacturing climbed above 1 
million. 

TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY. SEPI. 14 8:30pm 
at 
ND EXPRESS 
Lower Level. LaFortune 
Sign up in ND EXPRESS beginning Monday. Sept. 10. Limited to 32 people.. 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
Seasons Wanted Individual Garnes 
Preferred Tickets 
234-5650 

experience@screenblast.com 
Watch me. Catch me. Play me. Use me anytime you like. Now there's a place where you are truly part of the action. The drama. The music. The sci-filhorror. The comedy. Original creations from 
users like you. ScreenblastM-experience it. 

L


Wednesday, September 12, 200 l 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 

TOM KEELEY 

ut f.VmJ nation k,u,w. wft#fur It wisliu us wdf rw lH. r/aat 01c sfiaJ1P"'J OfflJ price, b.at-onq bwr:4:n, suppon any frimd. "PPO# amj foe to IWUt'I tf,. SU(f)k)a/ottatf,. SU&aSS of(lfierty. 
-11X 
BILL AMEND 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
FOXTROT 
THE HARD IT'S THAT
SEX! 
DRIVE'S BEEN BLASTED
SEX! SEX! 
CORRUPTED INTERNET
SEX! SEX! 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


Keep Praying Notre Dame 
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  33 Madrid Mrs.  53 Spreadsheet  
1 Yogurt fruit 5 Outpouring  34 They'll knock you out  part: Abbr. 54 Sign up  
10 Kind of page 14 Leprechaun's land  37 "Guilty," e.g. 38 Many a Louis 39 Kettles ... or the  56 The U.S., to Mexicans 60 Dayan  
15 Rhodes of  theme of this  contemporary  
Rhodesia  puzzle  61 It may become  
16 Where a puppy may be picked up 17 Not a niche audience  41 Belushi venue, for short 42 May race, informally 44 Well-tossed  a queen 64 Penny-pinching 65 Plantain lily 66 Arthurian lady 67 It's under the  
19 Hot times in Haiti 20 Locker room activity 21 Without a  pigskin 45 Lilly of pharmaceuticals 46 Bill Haley bandmate  Ponte Vecchio · 68 Rubber hub 69 Grooves on DOWN  
contract  48 In need of  1 Dole's 1996  
23 Ogle 24 Private places  salting, maybe 49 Modem news  running mate 2 "Dies "  
26 Get-up-and-go  source  3 Skinny one  
29 Third-century  51 More than 25%  4 Marching  
date  of immigrants to  together  
30 Clobbers  the U.S.  5 Map info  
6 Dental plan,  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  maybe 7 When doubled,  
defensive fire Puzzle by WOiiam I. John•ton  
8 50-50, e.g.  26 WHamler  50 like a mansard  56 Idaho motto  
9 Lyrical John  courtier  roof  starter  
10 Like some shopping 11 1968 presidential candidate 12 Fencing need 13 Progeny: Abbr. 18 Wanton destruction  27 Maine town 28 Robin's sweetheart 29 "Taxi" singer 31 Potato sack wt., maybe 32 _ law (old Frankish code) 35 Profs' help  52 Greek leader 57 Indian princess 53 Untainted 58 Bit of wicker 54 1998 role tor 59 Winds up Uma 62 Just fine 55 _-do-well 63 Pre-Yeltsin abbr. Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone:  
24 Nature films, perhaps  36 Sauna site 40 Amaretto flavor 43 Kind of question  1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
breeze  47 Up to. for short  years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON about your duties. Catch up on THIS DAY: Salma Hayek, Keanu chores and to do something spe­Reeves, Jimmy Connors, Mark cial for your mate. 000 Hannon, Olivier Grouillard VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Happy Birthday: If you don't You need to take care of yourself. want to be left behind, you had Overdoing it will lead to fatigue better pull up your socks and and minor health problems. Take turn your dreams into a reality. some time out to regenerate. You have the wherewithal, but Relax and enjoy the day. 000 put some muscle behind your LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): ! ideas or nothing is likely to hap­Become involved in activities that • i pen. You can sit still and continue include large groups. Your to dream, or you can take the ini­sophisticated charm will capti­tiative. Your numbers: 6, 19, 23, vate individuals who could end 25, 32, 48 up pl~ying an important role in 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): yow: life. 000 You may have see the potential SCORPIO (Oct. 2.3-Nov. 21): for some sort of financial gain, Your help will be appreciated and but be careful. 1here appear to be repaid today. Your giving nature problems surrounding the condi­will lead in a positive direction tions of the deal. Don't let out­that is sure to bring support for siders get involved. Be sure to other projects that are important check out your legal rights. 000 to you. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. Your involvement in organiza­21): Your friends are important to tions that are concerned with you. However, be careful not to 
humanitarian issues will be divulge your most precious rewarding and promote com­secrets if you don't want one of 
pelling new relationships. Take them to let the cat out of the bag. advantage of your good fortune. 00 0000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 19): Look into legal problems fac­You can make some changes in ing family members. Your intelli­your life, but don't quit until you gent approach to unfortunate sit­have something else to go to. You uations will be helpful. Give need to keep a certain amount of advice instead of cash. 00000 security to feel positive and self­AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): confident. 000 You'll be feeling anxious if your 
CANCER (June 21-Jul:r 22): position is uncertain. Look for a Don't invest in something new source of income in case the because someone else wants you situation arises. You may stumble to. Take the time to do some across the possibility of starting research, and if the numbers your own business. 000 don't come out right, back away. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Socialize with friends and have Don't become involved with just some fun. It's time to enjoy your­anyone and don't let other people self, not do business. 00000 pick out a partner for you. Stand 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You on your own two feet and make will be emotional concerning a your own choices. Don't be a loved one. Your I'artnerwill be up­chameleon any longer. 000 
set if you haven t been respol1Sible 
Birthday Baby: You are hard to resist. You have so much charm 
•
and grace that even the most difficult person will bend to your 
whims. Your sights are set high, and you persis until you reach your 
destination 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ---------------------------­
Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
. Purdue game's status in question, 

\ decision expected . l 
. I 
. \ / later today 
I ) ) 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 


A decision is expected to be made later today whether or not the Notre Dame-Purdue football game scheduled for Saturday afternoon will be cancelled, The Observer learned Tuesday. 
In the wake of the most deadly terrorist attacks in American history, NCAA conference COilJ.u missioners are expected to announce this afternoon their decision regarding Saturday's football games. 



While Notre Dame officials have yet to say they have dis­cussed Saturday's football game, Joe Bennett, vice president of university relations at Purdue University said Purdue athletic director Morgan Burke and Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White spoke Tuesday afternoon. 


Bennett said the game was still scheduled to be played Saturday. A release on the Purdue athletic department's web site also said Saturday's football game was still sched­uled to take place. 
White confirmed that he had a conversation with Burke. but said the two had not discussed the possibility of canceling the game. 
"Right now we're consumed by the enormity of the situa­tion," he said. 
White also confirmed that he, along with several other high­ranking University officials, met with Notre Dame President Edward Malloy throughout the day to discuss the terrorist attacks, but he said the issue of playing football Saturday never came up. 


The two schools expect to reach a decision within the next. couple of days, White said. 
While both Notre Dame and Purdue cancelled Tuesday press conferences by each head coach, only the Irish cancelled practice. The Boilermakers con­tinued practicing as planned, Purdue's sports information office confirmed. 


The decision to play Saturday's game could also lie in the hands of the Big Ten con­ference, of which Purdue is a member. Athletic directors from each of the 11 Big Ten schools were expected to discuss the sit­uation tomorrow morning in a conference call. 
Sue Lister, the associate Big Ten commissioner, said the ath­
see PURDUE/page 17 
O
THE BSERVER

National Sports 
National Sports 
. Purdue practices, p. 16 . LA Kings, p. 17 
Wednesday, September 12, 2001 
Terror postpones competition 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Major league baseball postponed its entire schedule of 15 games Tuesday night following terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. 
It was the first time since President Franklin D. Roosevelt's death in 1945 that baseball wiped out an entire day of regular season play, other than because of work stoppages or weather. 
Baseball commissioner Bud Selig . made the decision about 3 1/2 hours after the attacks began in New York. 
"In the interest of security and out of a sense of deep mourning for the national tragedy that has occurred today, all major league baseball games for today have been canceled," Selig said in a statement. 
Selig also called off the owners' quarterly meeting that was set to start Tuesday. He did not make any deci­sions about Wednesday's games. 
"I will continue to monitor the situa­tion and a daily basis and make ongo­ing decisions accordingly:• Selig said. "My deepest sympathy and prayers go out to the families and victims of this horrendous series of events." 
It was other the fourth time the major leagues postponed an entire day's schedule other than because of labor strife or weather, according Scot Mondore of the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum. 
The others were Aug. 2, 1923, when President Warren G. Harding died; June 6, 1944, when Allied forces invaded France in World War II; and April 14, 1945, two days after the death of President Roosevelt. 
Yankee Stadium, perhaps the build­ing that most symbolizes American sports, was evacuated within 90 min­utes of the first attacks. 
Government officials increased secu­rity outside the 78-year-old ballpark,. located in the South Bronx, more than 10 miles from the World Trade Center in lower Manhattan. 
"The ballpark is ringed with police," Yankees spokesman Rick Cerrone said after leaving his office. 
The NFL was mulling whether to postpone this weekend's schedule. 
"Regarding Sunday"s games, we will make no decision today," league spokesman Joe Browne said. "We'll gather information and speak to sever­al parties within the next 24 to 48 hours." 
NASCAR also was monitoring the sit­uation before making any decision on 
see BASEBALL/page 18 

. Volleyball, soccer games among cancellations on ND/SMC campuses 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
Like other schools around the nation, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have suspend­ed athletic competition in light of Tuesday's tragic events in Washington, New York and Pennsylvania. All compe­
tition scheduled for Tuesday and Wednesday has been postponed indefinitely. 
Tonight's Irish women's volleyball game, scheduled for 7 
p.m. in the Joyce Center, has been postponed 


indefinitely. Brown 
"Absolutely I agree with the decision," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. "I just think it was good even today to not practice. It's really hard to walk into the gym after something like that." 
At Saint Mary's, Tuesday's home soccer game against Hope College has also been postponed. The Belles volleyball team, scheduled to travel to Michigan and take on MIAA rival Calvin College Tuesday. will make up that game later in the season. 
"This is just going to touch the lives of too many people," Saint Mary's athletic director Lynn Kachmarik said Tuesday afternoon. "Too many lives are affected, too many lives have been lost. It is not a time for competi­tion, it is a time for prayer and reflection." 
Even ts.scheduled for this weekend are "It's really hard to all cu_rrently_ under walk into the gym
question, with an . 
a n n O u n c e m e n t after somthzng expected to be made like that. " today. 
The Irish women's 
Debbie Brown

soccer team has scheduled games in volleyball coach California on Friday and Sunday against Santa Clara and Stanford. respectively. Head coach Randy Waldrum expressed con­cern about boarding a flight to California. 
"\iVe don't really know the status of the threat quite yet, it's hard to sit and specu­late," Wald rum said Tuesday evening. "Tonight, I wouldn't be real comfortable." 
Waldrum stressed the trust placed in the athletic department's hands to look after its athletes. 
'Tm responsible for 25 young people and their safety," Waldrum said. "Their parents trust us with that safety. I have complete faith that Kevin White ·and Father Malloy will do what's in the best interests of the University." 
The Irish men's soccer team is scheduled to host the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament this weekend on Alumni Field. But Rhode Island and St. Mary's (Calif.) are both scheduled to play in that tournament. but may not be able to attend depending on the status of air travel. 
Contact at Noah Amstadter at amstadter.l@nd.edu. 
OBSERVER
Schedule undetermined
SPORTS 

oniine classifieds 
AT AGLANCE http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 










