
-, 
Pakistan gives full support
SUNNY 

Monday 
In a desision made Sunday, Pakistan gave the United States full support

HIGH 74° 
in fighting terrorists and called for Afghanistan to turn over Osama bin 
SEPTEMBER17, 
Laden.
LOW 57° 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 15 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Hoping by candlelight 
. Students and 
community pray ·for victims in vigil 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 

With  candles  in  hand,  
members of the Notre Dame  
and South Bend communi­ 
ties gathered at the Grotto  
Sunday night to pray for the  
victims of last Tuesday's  
terrorist attacks.  
"As  we  consider  the  
events of the past six days,  
they  are  in  many  ways  
impossible to grasp," said  
Father Mark Poorman, vice  
pr·esiden.t  of  Student  
Affairs, who presided  over  
the first part of the ceremo­ 
ny.  
It was possible to-experi­ 
ence  fear and helplessness  
while watching the events  
unfold, Poorman added, but  
coming together to  pray  
allowed people to confront  
their sorrow.  
"Tonight as we stand side  
by side in this holy place,  
we are not alone. We are not afraid," said Poorman. He called upon the gath­ Over 1,000 students and South Bend community members lit candles and joined a procession from  
ering to pray for those who died in the terrorist attacks and for their families, as  the Grotto to the reflecting pool at the library. Sunday's walk, organized by student governtnent,  
well as for the country itself. A student read from the Gospel of Matthew, and  student activities and campus ministry, was held in remembrance ofall those who are missing and  
the folk choir sang. Poorman then asked those gathered at the Grotto to form a processional and to proceed in "unbroken silence" to the library  lost their lives in the wake of Tuesday's tragedy.•photos by PETER RICHARDSON  
reflecting pool. Once the  
crowd gathered around the  
pool, the Glee Club began to sing, and Father Richard Warner led the group in prayer. "We pray for members of our Notre Dame community that have died and for their families," Warner said. He  also asked the processional to pray for the other victims of the terrorist attacks, including the police and fire­fighter that died trying to rescue others. In addition, Warner prayed for the president and  Congress, and asked that the country's response respect human rights. "Lord, may we and aH the people of the Book, Christians, Jews and Muslims -come to understand that we are all sons and daugh­ ters of God despite our important religious dif­ferences," he said. Warner then led the pro­cessional in praying the Hail Mary and Our Father, and then in singing Notre Dame's alma mater.  The processional was the work of several campus organizations, including stu­dent government, Campus Ministry and the Student Activities Office. Donations seeVIGIL/page 8  

Police charge cabbie with sex crime 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
Saint Mary's Security arrest­ed a taxi driver accused of sex­ually assaulting one of five stu­dents he was driving to campus on Saturday. 
A Saint Mary's student alleged the City Cab Co. driver fondled her as she sat in the front passenger seat of the taxi about 2:40 a.m. Saturday. 

Richard Chlebek, the College's security director, said Sunday. 
"It happened as they were driving on campus up the Avenue," Chlebek said. 
After exiting the cab, the woman flagged down a security officer and reported the alleged assault to him, Chlebek said. 
The officer stopped the driver before he left campus and arrested him on charges of sex­ual battery after the victim and the four other students posi­tively identified him and attest­ed to the alleged molestation, according to Chlebek. 
The suspect was taken to the St. Joseph County Jail, where he remained Sunday night, Chlebek said. 
Chlebek, who said the victim would pursue criminal charges with the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office, expected the suspect to be arraigned today in St. Joseph County Superior Court. 
In a crime alert e-mailed to students Saturday afternoon, Linda Timm, vice president for student affairs, said the alleged assault appeared to be an iso­lated incident. 
"You are still encouraged to use public transportation when you are off campus," Timm said in the page-long e-mail. "It is suggested that in all situations you utilize· the back seat when traveling by cab. This should be operating procedures of the cab companies." 
Asked about the company's seating procedure for passen­gers, City Cab officials deferred comment about the alleged incident to the firm's owner. He was unavailable for comment until today. 
Chlebek said Saint Mary's Security didn't contact the com­pany about the alleged crime. 
He said the victim reported 
see CRIME/page 8 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, September I 7, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Where's my bike? 

Thursday began like any other day for me last week. Wake up, go to class, hang out, and then go to work over in Debartolo. Nothing sig­nificant ever really happens, and days like Thursday blur together like they sometimes have the habit of doing. Of course, this was not the case last Thursday. 
I rode my bike to work, locked it to a black bike U, and then checked the lock to make sure it was secure. Of course, when I got out of work at 10 p.m., one thing was very different from a normal Thursday: My bike was gone, the lock was smashed apart, laying on the ground, and I was left with a distinct feeling of disgust and violation. 
Now it's easy to brush this off as "Well, stupid, maybe you should have had a better lock than the titanium coil krypto-lock." Well, maybe you're right. I should have dropped the extra five bucks for the U-lock. What I fail to under­stand is what would bring a human being to see my bike, get out some blunt object, smash the lock and take it away. That's my bike. I didn't hang a sign on it that said "You know what? I don't really care if this gets stolen. Please try and take it away from me." I locked my bike outside my place of work trusting that if somebody saw that it was locked, they would at least have the decency to understand that my bike meant something to me, and that I valued it tremendously. 
My older brother gave me that bike, a broth­er that I spent the first 18 years of my life fighting with, sometimes with fists. Last year, he gave me that bike, and I'd like to think that it was his way of saying I'm sorry for all that we fought about when we were younger, and in a way, I felt like it brought us closer togeth­er. 

I'll take it for granted that the person who took my bike didn't know what that bike meant to me. But I'll also take it for granted that they couldn't have cared less about what that bike meant. The only thing they saw on my bike was a big fat dollar sign that would let them sell my bike for $50 or have it for them­selves. I guess what I expect from humanity is the same sort of decency that I was brought up with, which is to respect other people and their property. Some people lack that decency. and it questions my faith in human nature, which forces me to believe that there is good in all people, just some choose to tuck that portion of their self away so that they can bash locks apart and steal bikes. 
In hindsight, I didn't truly lose anything but a material possession. I can get a new bike, probably for about $60. Will it be the same? I don't think so. I know that every time I get on that new bike, I will know that somebody had such little regard for a fellow human being that I became insignificant, and thus an easy mark. And normally I'm not one to bear mal­ice, but I hope whoever stole my bike gets hit by a truck. 
There, I'm done. 

Contact Adam Turner at turner.50@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
The Obseiver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion p<:riods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All ~production rights arc reserved. 
l __________________ -.i,

_______...,..,.___ ......... 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Vaccinations:Meningitis  . Event: "Fiesta  
and Hepatitis B shots,  Bienvenida," All Day,  
must present student ID,  LaFortune Ballroom  
1  p.m.  to  7  p.m.,  Stepan  . Film: "Before Nig_ht  
Center  Falls," Latin American  
. Lecture: "Irish Peace  Film Symposium, 7 p.m.,  
Process: Alive or Dead,"  Room 141 DeBartolo  
1 p.m., Hesburgh  

Wednesday  Thursday  
. Workshop: "Do Labor  . Lecture: "Development  
Unions Reduce Business  of Electoral Law in  
Investments," 3 p.m. to  Lebanon," 12:30 p.m.,  
4:15 p.m., O'Shaughnessy  Hesburgh  
. Vaccinations: Meningitis  . Event: "Ririe Woodbury  
.  
and Hepatitis B, 1 p.m. to  Dance," 7:30 p.m.,  
7 p.m., Welsh Parlor, Saint  O'Laughlin, Saint Mary's  
Mary's  

Compiled from U-Wire repons
BEYOND CAMPUS 
Pentagon attack survivors return to Indiana 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Indiana University/Purdue University at Indianapolis graduate students who survived a terrorist attack at the Pentagon Tuesday morn­ing arrived back in Indianapolis late Wednesday night. 
The 28 students, who are all employees at the Crane Naval Surface Warfare Center in southern Indiana, had taken the trip to Washington as part of a graduate course at IUPUI. They were at the Pentagon Tuesday morning for a scheduled briefing from a high-ranking naval official when the undersecretary of the Navy told the group her remarks would be brief because she had to attend an emer­gency meeting about the sudden attack on the World Trade Center. The twin towers were already burning 
BRIDGEWATER STATE COLLEGE 
New scholarships for homosexuals 
Looking to provide financial assistance to openly gay students whose families refuse to provide for their edu­cation, Bridgewater State announced it will begin oITer­ing schola,ships to such individuals in coming semesters. Bridgewater, located about 40 minutes south of Boston, founded the Frank-Tremblay Safe College Scholarship for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered students who have been ostracized by their families after reveal­ing their sexual orientation. The school is among the first to provide such aid. The only other comparable scholarship was started by Occidental College after one of its alums passed away and left funds for similar schol­arships. "The money will make a difference, especially during the first semester, when the students find them­selves financially cut off from their families," said Dr. James Hayes-Bohanan, member of the Frank-Tremblay Scholarship committee and Bridgewater professor. "But the scholarship is more about the message that is sent out. Students struggling to come out with their sexuality need support and reassurance." 
LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather11 forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratUies 
' i I /
' \ f I 
/
\ 
rniesri ·­
~':fli,s'f:t ··~~l+M'¼~"ii~.\!:ii:f;:~!~ 1\JY~c!re day, 
.Thurs 
M_·.:_; .:.->:~,-~;~•·· ··'4-•-•.·· 
Frida' rSatuociay t 
i~~ 
!"----) 
4,~-~qQQ ~ ~ L1 
Showers T•storms Rain Fli:rries S~~ Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy v... Assoco.,ted PrH5 Grap/llc$Ne/ 

from two similar crashes orchestrated by terrorists. 
Just as she was summing up, a loud explosion jolted the room, causing smoke to immediately billow from the ceiling. Originally, one of the group's leaders -JU-Bloomington staffer Jim Buher -had thought the crash was 300 to 400 feet from where the group was gathered on the Pentagon's fifth floor. He told reporters Wednesday night that he later learned the airliner actually had struck a mere 30 to 40 feet beneath the room. 
Buher and Crane executive Duane Embree told reporters that everyone tried to get out of the room but the halls were filled with smoke. 
The students, some still obviously shaken by this week's catastrophic events, began to tell their individual accounts. 
John Vaupel said there was a one­foot drop in the hallway, where the floor had begun to cave in under pres­sure from the burning wreckage below. He located a nearby stairwell and pushed on the door. 
"There was something blocking the way, so I pushed harder," he said. "When the door gave way I could see that the stairs were gone." 
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA 
Tropical storm threatens campus 
Hillsborough County emergency operations center decided to cancel classes at the University of South Florida Friday due to the threat of Tropical Storm Gabrielle, said Michael Reich, a USF spokesman. The storm was located at 25.5 north latitude, 84.3 west longi­tude, about 165 miles west south west of Naples with winds at 50 miles per hour Thursday night. The storm was moving northeast and expected to hit Florida this afternoon. Junior Darmian Bull said he found it hard to get news about the tropical storm approaching Florida's Gulf coast. The news stations have been covering the attack on America with little attention to local stories, he said. "When I turned on the news, it was only focused on New York," Bull said. "The state probably doesn't even know." But USF is preparing for the storm that may hit the Tampa Bay area. Rick Fender, associate vice presi­dent for Administrative Services, said USF has low drainage systems in certain areas of the campus, which based on past experienc~. could cause flooding. 

....-.-..... .........-.-.............---·------------------__._----------------------------• _ ___....,.. _______________ 
NATIONAL WEATHER 


.J 
Monday, September 17, 2001 page 3 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

SMC grad missing in WTC attack 
. 

parents are in New York to
By JILL MAX.BAUER 
look for her. 
News Writer 

This news has saddened the 
College and devastated the 
Suzanne Kondratenko, a Humanistic Studies Saint Mary's alumna from the Department. Professor Gail class of 1996, was in the Mandell remembers her vivid­World Trade Center Towers ly. on Tuesday morning and has "She was a brilliant stu­yet to be located. dent," Mandell said. "She was 
Kondratenko was working the type of student that profes­as a consultant for Keane and sors never forget. She brought was in the city on business. At such vitality to the classroom." the time of the terrorist Kondratenko was the second attacks, she was working on a of three daughters to attend project for the Aon Saint Mary's. Her older sister Corporation. Kondratenko has Patricia graduated with the been reported missing and her class of 1992 and her younger 
sister Caroline is· currently a 
sophomore who is enrolled in 
Saint Mary's Rome Program 
for the Fall semester. 
Kondratenko was also an 
alumna of the Rome Program. 
Kondratenko graduated 
Summa Cum Laude as a 
Humanistic Studies Major. 
"It would be so sad to see 
someone with that much abili­
ty and who was so gifted need­
lessly destroyed." Mandell 
said. 
Contact Jill Maxbauer at max3126@saintmarys.edu 
SINGING FOR A CAUSE 


fallen and injured as a result of Tuesday's terrorist attack. The concert, held Saturday, was organized by the Irish Law Society. 
SMC/ND plan 
vaccination drive 
By SHEILA EGTS 
News Writer 
Prompted by the death of Holy Cross College student Jenny Nemeth to bacterial meningitis this past March, Saint Mary's and Notre Dame will Meningitis and Hepatitis B vaccination drives. 
The Health and Wellness Services Department at Saint Mary's will administer the vacci­nations from 1 p.m. to 7 p.m. Wednesday in the Welsh by VACCESSHealth to ensure that the immunizations will be on­hand for all students. 
"The cost of the vaccine is high, so we cannot keep a large quanti­ty on hand at all times," said Health and Wellness director Cathi DeCleene. "By partnering with VACCESSHealth, we have access to a substantial supply of the vaccine at a time when the demand is the greatest; the start of the school year." 
Although the vaccinations are 
readily avail­
able to students 
Parlor of "We want to make these year-round, the Haggar vaccinations a top Health Services 
College department is
priority in {students'] 
Center. offering the 
Notre Dame minds.,. coordinated will provide immunization Meningitis and clinic to
Melanie Engler
Hepatitis B increase
director of public relations
vaccinations awareness 
today from 1-7 
p.m. at Stepan Center. 
The shots are part of the Meningitis and Hepatitis B Immunization Outreach Program, an effort to educate and protect students against these potentially fatal diseases. 
Meningitis is a bacterial infec­tion with symptoms that resem­ble the flu, such as fever, sever headache, nausea, lethargy and vomiting. Symptoms can escalate and result in death within a mat­ter of hours. The most effective way to prevent infection is receiv­ing the vaccination which pro­vides protection against four out of the five strains of the disease. 
The vaccinations are sponsored 
about impor­tance of these shots. 
"We are offering the immuniza­tion drive essentially because the social habits and close living quarters of college students put them at a higher risk," said Melanie Engler, director of public relations at Saint Mary·~. "We want to make these vaccinations a top priority in their minds." 
, The vaccination fees, $85 for meningitis and $65 for hepatitis B, can be billed to student accounts or to a major credit card. 
Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu 

-AT,L ·STREET FORU 

An excellent way to learn about opportunities on Wall Street!!! 
Wednesday, September 19, 2001 ·Mendoza College of Business, Jordan Auditorium 
Students of ALL majors, degrees, colleges, and years 
THE 
BK @ 11 :53am (C) Yahoo!
36.75 ,-,---.---,---,---,--,--.....,...., 
36.50 36.25 36.00 
35.75 .........__.___________,...... 

8-Sep 10am 12pm 2pm 4pm 



•Sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business and The Career Center 
•5:00pm -7:00pm Presentations: 
Domes.tic A..sset Allocation Process Global Asset Allocation Process Anatomy ofan Initial Public Offering Mergers & Acquisitions A Public Debt Deal A Highly-Leveraged Private Equity Deal 
•7:00 -7:30 Pizza 
•7:30 -9:00 Individual Company Breakouts 


page 4 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 17, 2001 

Americans pack churches Sunday 
Associated Press 
Clutching patriotic flags and prayer books, Americans filled churches Sunday, struggling to comprehend the terror of the week before. 
"God Bless America" mixed with gospel music. Images of the destruction in New York and Washington flashed on some sanctuary walls. Ushers in one church distributed tis­sues to weeping parishioners. 
Many ministers said atten­dance rivaled that at Christmas. 
"America will never be the same," said the Rev. Cecil Williams of San Francisco's Glide Memorial Methodist Church. "Never." 
About 250 members of the historic Parish of Trinity Church Wall Street, in the shadow of the World Trade Center, moved services to a Roman Catholic shrine a block from where the twin towers once stood. 
Trinity is now filled with ash and shards of glass. Children were filing into the parish preschool when the first plane struck Tuesday. Stunned rescue workers staggered into the church moments after the crash. 
"Human words are inade­quate, and so we come together to turn to the word of God," said the Rev. Samuel Johnson Howard, vicar of Trinity, an Episcopal parish dating back 300 years. 
New York Cardinal Edward Egan celebrated Mass for hun­
dreds in the 

"God's love and our the violence 
majestic St. 
to where

hatred cannot coexist in 
Patrick's 
we're going

Cathedral in our hearts. Jesus came to 
to escalate 
Manhattan, urg­

save all sinners, even it and 
ing parishioners 
threaten
terrorists ..
to commune 
more fami­
with God to ease 

lies," Cobb the grief of the Charles Kullmann said. 
past six days. 

reverend The Rev. 
The crowd stood and applauded when Egan thanked rescuers and lauded Gov. George Pataki and Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, who attended the service. The two political leaders hugged during the ovation. 
St. Paul's Episcopal Cathedral in Oklahoma City, a block from the site of the 1995 Murrah fed­eral building bombing, held special services, just as it did days after the tragedy there. 
In Alexandria, Va., the sound of patrolling helicopters could be heard above the Fairlington United Methodist Church, two miles from the Pentagon, one of the terrorists' targets. 
The church was built for mili­tary families stationed nearby during World War II. A white pentagon, representing the mil­itary building, stood in one cor­ner of the sanctuary. 
At the Church of the Nazarene in Augusta, Maine, a flutist played "The Battle Hymn of the Republic" while images of the devastation were projected on a wall. 
Ministers saw lessons in the outpouring after the collapse: to value family and friends and be kind to strangers. The attacks also posed a challenge, they said, to stay hopeful when bit­terness threatened to consume the nation. 
"God's love and our hatred cannot coexist in our hearts," said the Rev. Charles Kullmann of the Church of St. Paul the Apostle in New York. "Jesus S u s a n 

Gaumer of St. Andrew's Episcopal Church in New Orleans blamed the assaults on fanatics who per­verted the Muslim faith. Many Muslims around the country have been the target of revenge assaults since Tuesday's destruction. 
"We, too, Christians and Jews, have our fanatics, and we have had for centuries," she said. 
Throughout last week, includ­ing Friday's national day of remembrance, mosques and synagogues held memorial ser­vices for their congregations. 
On Sunday, religious leaders from Lebanon to Australia also organized special worship. Many countries lost citizens in the attacks. 
The head of Lebanon's Maronite Church, Cardinal Nasrallah Sfeir, in a special Mass condemned the "heinous crime" against the United States. 
In the Dominican, a Caribbean island nation of 75,000, the government declared a national day of prayer Sunday. 
The pope offered "my heart· broken and shared thoughts" to Americans and prayed that vic­tims' families would find com­fort. He urged restraint in efforts to find the terrorists. 
Before the pontiff arrived in Frosinone, 50 miles southeast of Rome, a local choir sang "Blowin' in the \Vind." 
came to save all sinners, even terrorists." 
Deborah Welsh, a flight atten­dant on hijacked United Airlines Flight 93, which crashed in rural Pennsylvania, was a member of the choir at the Roman Catholic church. Choir members pinned pictures of Welsh to their clothing. The hyinn after communion was "America the Beautiful." 
"It has been a bitter week for all of us," said the Rev. Paul Brooks, of First Baptist Church of Raytown, a suburb of Kansas City, Mo. 
Many pondered the war ahead. 
"As the father of four sons, I don't want to sacrifice their lives for this injustice. And· yet there must be a right for this wrong," said Brad Sampson, who gathered with tearful Mormons in Logan, Utah. 
Roman Catholic Cardinal Theodore Mccarrick, leading services for more than 6,000 at the Basilica of the Shrine of the Immaculate Conception in Washington, read a letter from Pope John Paul II, saying he hopes Americans will take solace in their faith and reject hatred and violence. 
One of McCarrick's relatives is missing in the World Trade Center wreckage. 
Tyson Cobb, outside the Glendale Presbyterian Church in Los Angeles, said he was troubled about responding to the carnage. 
"Having three kids, it makes me really angry, but I don't 
want to 
perpetuate 
·YOU WANT TO 
GS. 
House" 
i,[']4:iFia1iner Hall " '. ~~99~ , ip1n .·.. ~l?~Sgib~r.19 ·· Rtovided 
TEACHFORAMERICA www.teachforamerica.org 
NSU(tING 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Information Session 
For Accounting and Finance Majors 
Wednesday September 19, 2001 7:00 -9:00 pm Center For Continuing Education Room 210 
1st Round Interviews -10/15/01 Biddin Schedule Closes -9/23/01 


------------------------------. ---­


ATION . 
Monday, September 17, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Tropical storm kills 13: Tropical storm Nari slammed into northern Taiwan on Monday. triggering mudslides and flash flood­ing that killed 13 people. At least five people were missing and 18 were injured as sheets of rain flooded homes and drenched unstable mountain slopes around the capital, ·Taipei, emergency officials said. Forecasters said the downpour was the heaviest in 10 years. 
Massood funeral draws thousands: 
Thousands of people gathered Sunday in Kabul, a small village in Afghanistan's mighty Hindu Kush mountain range, to bury opposition leader Ahmed Shah Massood, who died from wounds in a suicide attack against him. Supporters of Massood shouted slogans against the ruling Taliban militia and also condemned Tuesday's terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Pataki calls special session: Gov. George Pataki will call the state Legislature into special session today to bolster the state's anti-terrorism laws. Pataki said Sunday night he wants lawmakers to pass six new mea­sures to combat terrorist activities on New York soil. They include a bill to make the intentional murder of another person in the commission of a terrorist act a capital crime. "New York state has witnessed firsthand the horrible effects of terrorism and we will not tolerate it," Pataki said in a statement issued through his office. 
Gunman kills Indian immigrant: A 
man was charged Sunday with murder and other charges after he allegedly fired at two gas stations and a home in Mesa, Ariz.. killing an Indian immigrant inside one gas station.No one was injured at the second station, where a clerk of Lebanese descent was working, or the home, where a family of Afghan descent lived. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Shootout results in 2 deaths: A 
Seymour man turned his gun on himself after shooting another man and exchanging gunfire with police, a Hope, Ind., coroner said. Andrew Horstman, 29, died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, the Indiana State Police said in a news release Sunday. Bartholomew County Coroner Larry Fisher made the determination Sunday following autopsies on Horstman and his alleged victim, Robert Tyler, 28, of Cincinnati. Deputy Marshal Tony McClain found Tyler wounded on the ground about midnight Friday. 
Market Watch September 14 

Due to the ongoing tragedy in New York City, U.S. financial markets have been closed since Tuesday, Sept. 11. They will reopen today. 

KAT People gather at a memorial Sunday outside New York Fire Department Engine Company 226 in Brooklyn, NY. At the same time that city officials announced the promotion of 168 firemen to replace those lost In terrorist acts last week, four members of Company 226 remain missing among the World Trade Center wreckage. 
City promotes 168 firefighters 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
New York promoted 168 firefighters-on Sunday and no one laughed or beamed with pride. There was only heartache. 
These were the replace-ments for a Fire Department command structure that was eviscer­ated in a few moments on Tuesday morning, when the World Trade Center top­pled. Their promotions were a necessity, not a joy. 
"No one really wants to be here. No one really wanted to be promoted." said Jerry Horton, who became a cap­tain during the ceremony. 
With nearly 300 firefight­ers still lost beneath the 

Associated Press 
TORONTO 

A man detained at Toronto's air­port after terrorist attacks in the United States was handed over to 
U.S. authorities on Sunday, federal officials from both countries said. 
An FBI agent in Buffalo, in upstate New York, said the FBI had interviewed the man and "several" others who were brought over the border from Canada in recent days, but none were being held by the jumbled remains of the twin towers, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani compared the pro­motions to battlefield com­missions awarded during wartime. 
"We are shaken but we are not defeated," said Fire Commissioner Thomas Von Essen. "We stare adversity in the eye and we move on." 
Von Essen delivered his remarks jn a strong, unwa­vering voice, but his face twisted in pain the moment he finished. He collapsed into a chair on the stage and hung his head as Giuliani stepped to the podi­um. 
Giuliani hailed the fire­fighters as heroes, then helped swear the promoted into their new positions. 
FBI and instead were turned over to U.S. immigration officials. 
U.S. authorities had no reason to suspect any of those interviewed had links to the terror attacks in New York and Washington, said special agent Paul Moskal, and the people were questioned "as an abundance of caution." 
Neither the FBI nor Sgt. Greg Peters, spokesman for the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, would identify the man detained Sunday or any other people questioned. 
The man had been held by 
Some of the men were not there. Some of them were still under the wreckage of the Trade Center -their promotions a gesture of faith that they and some of their brethren will survive. 
The men awaited their honors in a plaza adjacent to the department's Brooklyn headquarters, sit­ting stoically under the same azure skies that deliv­ered death to their col­leagues five days ago. 
No one cried. 
The promotions reached all the way to the top. Chief of Operations Daniel A. Nigro was named Chief of Department, the highest uniformed position in the organization. He replaces Peter Ganci, the former 
Canadian immigration officials since Tuesday. when his U.S.­bound flight was diverted to Canada when U.S. airspace was closed following the attacks, the RCMP said Friday. 
Canadian immigration refused him entry, and he was offered the choice of returning to his departure point or proceeding to his intended destination. 
He chose to go to the United States, said Huguette Shouldice. a Canadian immigration spokes­woman. 
department chief, who died in Tuesday's attacks and was buried Saturday. 
After the ceremony the firefighters chatted quietly with their families. One man tousled his son's hair. Another lifted his daughter to his shoulders. A few posed for snapshots, their faces pale and their smiles thin-lipped. 
This thought was never far from anyone's mind: Less than two miles away, hundreds of their comrades remained entombed beneath a mountain of twisted steel and crumbled concrete. So far only 18 of the 300 fire department personnel thought to have been lost in the disaster are confirmed dead. 

CANADA 
Police turn over terrorist suspect 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 17, 2001 
Professors display cosmic ray detector 
By EMILY HOWARD 
News Writer 
Notre Dame physics professor Randy Ruchti and his colleague Barry Baumbaugh recently attended the formal opening of an exhibit at the Smithsonian Institution's National Air and Space Museum featuring the cosmic ray particle detector they constructed: 
The cosmic ray particle detec­tor, commonly known as the "black box," contains a fiber 
optic plate and elements. When a parti­cle moves through the one foot long and four inch wide box, it reflects off the plate and cre­ates a light. 
"We have been building help of Notre Dame students, we can get the box on the space shuttles so we can see the pri­mary protons in space and observe the huge interactions," said Ruchti. 

Through the aid of Notre Dame, Ruchti and Baumbaugh can display their detector next to many other great models from scientific history and astronomers. Other featured exhibits include a model of the observatory and telescope that Sir William Herschel used to dis­cover Uranus in 1781 and the 
"It will be nice for people from Notre Dame to get to see the detector. •• 
Randi Ruchti professor 
detectors to study the elemen­tary particles, and we want the cosmic rays that run directly through the box to be available to the general public," said Ruchti, who has worked along­side Baumbaugh on the project since 1982. 
Ruchti and Baumbaugh's hopes the boxes will be carried into space for further observa­tions. 
"It is our hope that with the students will take advantage of the exhibit and appreciate the resources available to them as members of the Notre Dame community. 

"It will be nice for people from Notre Dame to get to see the detector, and it is a good way of sharing some of the things we do here," said Ruchti. 
Contact Emily Howard at howaJd.2@nd.edu. 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
Seasons Wanted Individual Games 
Preferred Tickets 
I

234-5650 
_J 


University of Notre Dame Ioteroatiooal Study Programs 151 Hurley Buildiug T: 631-5882 

INNSBRUCK 
2002-03 Academic Year 
BERLIN 

2002-03, Fall '02 and Spring '03 
Information Meeting with Professor Hannelore Weber 
Tuesday, September 18, 2001 119 DeBartolo 
4:30 pm 
Application Deadlines: Innsbruck: Dec. 1,2001 Berlin: Oct. 1, 2001 for Sp '02 
Dec. 1, 2001 for F '02 and AY 02-03 

Questions??? Weber.lS@nd.edu Applications: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
back-up mir­ror for the Hubble Space Telescope. 
The particle detector is permanently on exhibit in the "Explore the Universe" section of the museum. Ruchti hopes 
Checlf out more about the... Sacrament of Confirmation 
Are you a baptized Catholic who has received their first Communion but has never been Confirmed? 
Are you wondering whether you need to be Confirmed to get married in the Catholic Church? 
Would you lilfe to prepare for Confirmation with other Notre Dame students who are dedicated to growing in their faith? 
It's not too late to join the Confirmation Preparation Program! 

Room 33~ Cole~an-Morse on Tuesday, Sept. 18th at 7:00 pm 
For more info: Fr. John Conley, CSC or Katie Hainley at 631-3390 
,, or stop by the Office of Campus Ministry in the Coleman-Morse Center with any questions. 
Meningitis Immunization Program 
When: Monday, September 17 
1 :00 pm -7:00 pm Where: Stepan Center How Much: 
$85 -Meningitis Immunization $65 -Hepatitis B Vaccine Methods of Payment: -Bill to Student's J-iome Address (Must present valid Student ID) -Credit Card (Visa, Mastercard, American Express) -Personal Checks also accepted 
Provided by Vaccess Health Sponsored by University Health Services and the Student Advisory Board. 

Monday, September 17, 2001 page 7 
The Observer . NEWS 

West entertains SMC students 
Wyoming athletes die in crash 
Associated Press 
CHEYENNE 
Eight track and cross-coun­

try runners from the 
University of Wyoming were 
killed early Sunday when their 
sports-utility vehicle collided 
head-on with a pickup truck 
that had apparently swerved 
ft .,. 
A . 

. -:t?-::: .,.;.;::, ·..~ ..·: ~ ;r.:-::;·\:...::··•::~·· .:~:::-:::·:~;,~::t:•i::::::ti~~ri}~;t:-:-:x 
·'·<•:<::••···•·· ).i.=.~~.f.J.~.;. 
···'<:'.;:::t~\}~ 
. .._:~:::/?:•: 

"//\} 
.·.;:·:'.:;;:;::: 
,, 
into their lane. 

Wyoming Highway Patrol Sgt. Pete Townsend said the SUV carrying the athletes col­lided with a one-ton pickup truck at 1 :30 a.m. Sunday about 17 miles south of Laramie. All seven passengers of the SUV were ejected, and they and the driver died at the scene. 
Jay Fromkin, a University of Wyoming spokesman, said he did not know where the stu­dents were going. 
"vVe believe they just got 
· togeth e r ,'z h e s a i d . "All the athletic meets were canceled over weekend, they may have been just out for the day." 
NEWS BRIEFS 
Hesburgh to speak at town hall meeting: 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president emeritus, will be among the panelists tonight at a community-wide town hall meeting in the Century Center. Sponsored by the South Bend Tribune and WSBT-TV, the area CBS affiliate station, the 7 
p.m. meeting brings together Michiana officials to talk about the local effects of Tuesday's terrorist acts in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania. The meeting will be in the Bendix Theatre of the downtown South Bend conference cen­ter at 120 S. St. Joseph St. Scott Appleby of Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies will join Hesburgh on the panel. Other panelists include John Schalliol, South Bend Regional Airport director, and Jean Mahoney, St. Joseph County's Emergency Management Agency director. The event is free and open to the public. 
Off campus run-off begins today: Online vot­ing in the run-off election for off-campus senator is today from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. through e-mail. Off-campus students can vote today for either Tammy Lin or Matthew Smith, who emerged the leaders last week in a three-person primary race. Smith received about 47 percent of votes in the prima­ry, while Lin won 32 percent. Candidates need a majority of cast ballots to be declared the winner. Election officials allowed Lin and Smith to campaign until midnight Sunday. A judicial council representative was expected to email off­campus this morning, inviting them to vote. Results will be announced after 5 p.m. tonight. 
By KATIE RAND 
News Writer 
Singer, songwriter and gui­tarist Matthew West performed at Saint Mary's Thursday at Dalloway's. Saint Mary's was one of the many colleges in the Midwest that West has enter­tained this year. West said he enjoys the college atmosphere. 
"Being a recent graduate I'm at home in 

He has continued to write and perform his own music for audi­ences at colleges, clubs and cof­fee houses throughout the Midwest since then. 
"Hopefully I'll get a bit more well known and can start play­ing at bigger places, and then I'll get a band, but for now this is great," West said after his show. He is currently touring with only a drummer. 
Students who attended the 
show were 
front of col­lege students  '"/ guess this is the kind  given coupons for a free cof­ 
and it's like we speak the . same lan­guage," said West.  ofthing you can do at a all girl's college." Matthew West  fee, soda or hot cocoa during the performance, and a table in  
West caught the ear of a music busi­ perfonner  the back was set up for stu­dents to make  
ness tive  execu­right  Rice treats.  Krispy  

before his junior year of college. "I guess this is the kind of After he graduated in 1999, he thing you can only do at a girl's moved to Nashville. Before he college," West said. "At an all 
had even lived in Music City USA guys school what would theyfor a month, he had signed a have a make your own Ramen professional songwriting deal Noodle night." with World Music Publishing. Throughout the performance, 
West interacted with the listen­ers, telling personal little stories and asking questions. 
West played mostly songs from his new album, "Sellout." along with a few of his older songs and two by popular artists Train and Tracy Chapman. 
Most of the songs on "Sellout" are upbeat like the title track, in which he sings, ''I don't act like everyone, I march to the beat of a different drum." 
In "Mr. James," West sings, "Time goes by, just like yester­day used to be tomorrow, time goes by." 
Most of his songs are written from past life experiences, like "Love Has No Walls," about his childhood as the son of a minis­ter. 
During the concert he also had a giveaway time in which listen­ers answered questions to win prizes. 
West's tour continues with stops at colleges around Indiana and surrounding states. 
Contact Katie Rand at rand8903@saintmarys.edu. 


. ' 
-. 


page 8 The Observer . NEWS Monday, September 17, 2001 
Vigil 
continued from page 1 
were collected to help the families of police and fire­fighter killed on Tuesday as they tried to rescue people trapped in the World Trade Center. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu 
Crime 
continued from page 1 
sitting in the front seat Saturday because four stu­dents had already filled the back seat. 
Timm's crime alert urged students to report to College Security officials all crimes and suspicious people and activi­ties. 
"I ask that you simply use caution and as always. travel with friends," Timm said. 
Contact Jason McFarley 

PAKISTAN 
Officals demand bin Laden 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD 

Senior Pakistani officials arrived in neighboring Afghanistan on Monday to deliver a warning: either deliver terror suspect Osama bin Laden or risk a massive retaliatory assault from the West. 
Pakistan's decision to give "full support" to the United States drew widespread protest Sunday from hard-line lslamists. Demonstrators burned U.S. flags, shouted their support of bin Laden, and warned the government they would take up arms for Afghanistan's ruling Taliban militia. 
"If Afghanistan is attacked, we will take part in the fight against America," shouted militant Muslim leader Abdul Abad to an estimated 1,000 demonstrators in northwest Pakistan near the Afghan bor­der. Protesters also shouted anti-American slogans in the federal capital, Islamabad. 

Most of Pakistan's 140 mil­lion people are devout but relatively moderate Muslims, but there are several strong militant Islamic groups oper­ating in the country and tens of thousands of religious schools that turn out young boys dedicated to jihad -holy war. Most of these militant groups are well armed. 
DEY JUNIORS!! 
Want to be involved in planning your 
,­
Junior Parents 




ClNTER FOiSOCIAL  '"'EHiw . ·  LE 
CONCERNS  
CERTIFI  ··  1 IOt~  

C~ SS 
September 16th and 19th at 6:00pm 
Session \.vill be held at 6:30 p.m. in Room 124' at the CSC. (Bring driver's license) 
REMINDERS: .!. Anyone wishing to use a CSC vehicle must attend certification each year 
A. Requests must have accurate times and name(s) of person(s) driving (if 
group leader schedules various vehicles, they must inform coordinator (csc vans@nd.edu) as SOOD 
as possible of actual drivers) .l. Direct questions to: cscvans@nd.edu 
Vehicle runs begin f'/1onday, September 3 Please note: * Coordinator is a part time position. E-mail will be checked on Sundays. 
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS -9PM-12 MIDNIGHT UNLIMITED BOWLING 
$6.95 PER PERSON SHOES INCLUDED 
Beacon Bowl-421 O Lincolnway W. South Bend 
234-4167 
I . 
Jo~~ 
IUTLEI UIIVEISITY 
Meet the respresentative: Brad Lauma.n Tuesday, September 18 
Information Tables 
11:00 am -1:00 pm DeBartolo Bldg. Hallway 
1:00 -2:00 pm O'Shaughnessy Great Hall 


Monday, September 17, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Celebrating their 38th season, Ririe-Woodbury Dance Company is heralded as a powerful force in modern dance. 
Thursday, Sept. 20, 2001 at 7:30 PM O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Germany watches Islamic groups 
Associated Press 
BERLIN 
German authorities will keep a closer eye on Islamic groups in the wake of the terror attacks on the United States last week, Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder said Sunday. 
Officials believe three of the suspected hijackers lived quietly in Germany for years, and Schroeder also announced a review of the nation's secret services. 
"We have to look for weak spots and then tackle them," the German leader said in an interview on ZDF television. 
He said the government will seek to change laws that prevent it from outlawing groups that declare them­selves religious organiza­tions. He did not elaborate. 
"This privilege must fall," Schroeder said. 
Meanwhile, the former capital Bonn became the lat­est link in Germany's widen­ing investigation into the traces of three suspected Islamic extremists U.S. offi­

cials believe were among the hijackers. 
One of the men lived for a time in Bonn, a university city of about 300,000, police officials said on condition of anonymity, and investigators are looking into whether he had contacts with students. 
Police did not name the man who lived in Bonn, but German media said he was Marwan Al-Shehhi, who U.S. investigators identified as one of the hijackers aboard the second plane that hit the World Trade Center. 
The mass-circulation news­paper Bild am Sonntag said Al-Shehhi arrived in Bonn in 1996 and rented a room from a family there before moving to Hamburg. 
German authorities suspect Al-Shehhi and two other men listed as hijackers, Mohammed Atta and Ziad Jarrah, were part of a group formed in Hamburg this year whose goal was to destroy high-profile U.S. targets. 
Atta, 33, and Al-Shehhi, 23, studied at the city's ~­
1 

FOR TICKET INFORMATION CALL THE /"~ SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE AT 284-4626 ~,!,':.~..,,. 
1ew1 THI 1111•1Y 
•·• t•IH IN! 
The University Libraries are offering tours to new Notre Dame students. By participating in a 1/2 hour tour of the Hesburgh Library, you will have a chance to win a $50.00 gift certificate at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
F8VB WINNINC 11•1111 WIii II 
98.tWN! 

.,,,..,.,No pre-registration is necessary. Each tour will highlight the 
AEET IN THE 
availableresources, services ,•••••y and collections within the University 
.••.•.,.,.
Ubraries of Notre Dame. 
Technical University and left Germany last year to take flight lessons in Florida, U.S. investigators say. U.S. authorities believe they were cousins from the United Arab Emirates. 
-German Interior Minister Otto Schily told Bild am Sonntag there were intelli­gence failures on both sides of the Atlantic. 
"U.S. authorities did not realize that the pilot training of the attackers was in preparation for terrorist crimes," the paper quoted Schily as saying. 
German authorities "real­ized just as little that taking tee hnical cou.rses in Hamburg was connected with terrorist planning," he said. "Therefore we have to review our entire intelli­gence strategy."· 
The three men apparently caused no ripples in Hamburg, a northern port city of 1. 7 million with a large immigrant population.. 
Officials in Hamburg have said that Atta was part of an Islamic prayer group at the university that was founded in 1999 and asked the uni­versity for a prayer room. The university's chancellor once attended a prayer ses­sion -apparently to check for radical Islamic content ­but said he found nothing to be concerned about. 
On Saturday, German fed­eral investigators said they found a suitcase containing "airplane-related docu­ments" in the apartment of Jarrah's girlfriend in the western city of Bochum. U.S. investigators believe Jarrah was aboard the plane that crashed in Pennsylvania on Tuesday. 
Jf.ere ye, here ye, Members oftfie Student 'Body 
Your presence is requested at the Notre Dame Student 
Issues to be debated shall be... *FOOTBALL TICKET DISTRIBUTION *FRESHMEN ORIENTATION 
Please report to... The NOTRE DAME ROOM 
(Second floor of LaFortune) 
TUESDAY, SEPT.18 8:00 P.M. 
'R.__'E!l'R.__'£5:J{M'EtJ{fJ'S SJ-l'UL 13'£ S'E'R.__'VEfD 
Comedies prepare 
for difficult task 
. After attacks it is late night tv's job to cheer up Americans 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Late-night entertainment shows have the unenviable job this week of trying to make people laugh again, just a few days after the nation's worst terrorist attacks. 
Many shows, like sporting and entertainment events across the country, halted Tuesday after the attacks on New York and Washington and the crash of a hijacked plane in Pennsylvania. 
Rosemary Keenan, a spokeswoman for the "Late Show with David Letterman," said it would resume taping Monday at the Ed Sullivan Theater in midtown Manhattan. She had no details about what 
guests will appear, or what else will be in the lineup. 
"Both the mayor and the president have asked America to get back to business," she said. "Therefore, we will be back on the air Monday night." 
Conan O'Brien's "Late Night," taped a few blocks away in a studio in New York's Rockefeller Center, is also due back Tuesday. Both shows are about five miles north of the World Trade Center disaster scene. 
On the West Coast, Letterman's rival. Jay Leno, will be back on NBC's "Tonight Show" Tuesday, a spokeswoman said. 
CBS' "Late Late Show" with Craig Kilborn will also be back on Monday, Keenan said. The show, taped in Los Angeles, will not include its usual comic monologue and will also eliminate its regular satiri­cal "in the news" segment, she said. 

Government's first 


TOUR TIMES AND DATES Tuesday, Sept. 11, 2001 4:30pm Wednesday, Sept. 12, 2001 4:30pm Tuesday, Sept. 18, 2001, 4:30pm Wednesday, Sept. 19, 2001 4:30pm 
fHEfll Ill en •1: Hnlt:III.N9.1911 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, September 17, 2001 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINFSS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS.EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadrer SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .............................. .......631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF...................... ..................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINFSS OFFICE ........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY°s............................................. 631-4324 
observer .smc. l @nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsnver.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: weather for up-to-the movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 
and rates ofprint ads 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisrant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicus should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMilu Connolly. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Myra McGriff  C. Spencer Beggs  
Kelly Hager  Graphics  
Kevin Suhanik  Katie McKenna  
Sports  Production  
Katie McVoy  Lauren Dasso  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Kurt Bogaard  Peter Richardson  


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
New York has not been beaten 
I write because I just hung up the sound detectors had heard something; the firemen were marching through New phone with my father on Long Island and within a minute, every truck and crane York City in columns of two into the I'd like the student body and Notre Dame stopped moving and thousands of men heart of the disaster. There were no community to know what's going on in stared in absolute silence at the moun­questions and no signs of anxiety or New York City. tain of rubble, watching for some sign of weariness. 
My father traveled into the heart of the a life saved. When the signal was given What my father spoke of was men and disaster area today for false alarm, women dedicating all of their resources for personal rea­

)p,..,..re.l 1 .S~.+-t, everything would to taking care of these rescue workers. sons. There he wit­
/ start up again, and He spoke of men on the front lines in nessed what he 
~· everybody would burning and collapsing buildings. Many described as the ~~"-··~ i continue with their of these men had helped build the World most inspiring sight ~ ' work, not convers-Trade Center and now tore it apart, of his life. besides .•·· 1 ing or becoming piece by piece, searching for survivors . the most gruesome. .~ overwhelmed as Firemen, whole fire companies, arrived The gruesome part · "~ they handed body from Michigan, Ohio, Chicago, Florida 
is obvious but the · ' parts down to and further. inspiration to be The word that my father used to derived from this sit­describe these men was indomitable. 
uation might seem <' ·•. • / . . ·. -rJ'{ :i:~;~::::~. There was something absolutely more elusive. · · -·' ... --./ .· ~ quietly did his indomitable in the eyes and body lan­My father is not an ~,-, /.; · ~:. part. Firemen guage of these men, as they walked 
r \ . ~·• .. ,
overly sentimental ,. · •.·.' ".· ~ " . ;'v · . stood by while through Manhattan, waiting their turn to 
' ~· J .. . . 1/ 
man and family .-· ·· .. t·v . ,'"'·· •· . their deceased head into the nightmare that still rages. 
' \ •.· .. ' ' . .­
tragedy is depress­,\_.'-1 ·: . :•: :~,,... brothers were We wanted the Notre Dame communi­ing both of us right , . .,··i , \~ brought to the ty to know that their fellow Americans in now, as well as a lot · 1 · 1 '" '·• mortuary truck, New York City have not despaired. have of other people, but where these men not lost hope; they are not vanquished. his voice contained · in fire bucket They walk with their heads held high, something different pants and boots, dedicating everything they have to saving tonight than I've dripping in sweat, lives and putting out the fires of New heard in some time. with masks and York. New York has not been beaten. He told of lines of tanks hanging off New Yorkers, though, have been beat­firemen and rescue them, would form en -10,000, according to the latest Port workers, walking in an honor guard, Authority estimate back home. Please a gauntlet through mountains of rubble, salute the fallen and lift him into the pray for the families of these men and using sound devices to search for buried truck. Then there was no crying, no women, and especially for my cousin, survivors. choking up but an immediate return to Peter O'Neill, the best man I know. 
On the ground, iron workers and con­duty. Other firemen lay stretched out struction workers labored to remove around the corner resting, while volun­Padraic H. McDermott debris, while trucks and cranes rolled teers brought up food and water and sophomore through the streets. Suddenly the work­anything else they could possibly need. Morrissey Manor ers would begin to silence each other When their turn would come, they would Sepr.13, 2001 and orange flags would be raised, for the just stand up and march -the cops and 
Our country must stand ready 
Another strikingly beautiful autumn day at Notre Dame -police, firefighters and other civil servants and will happily sur­but a day of immense sadness, of national mourning, a day on render some of our wealth as a measure of thanking them for which we are perhaps only beginning to understand being willing to place their lives at risk on a moment's the significance of what has happened. While ., notice. it is difficult to do in these circumstances. I 7,4~,.,,~-;,.-~~1 .:~~ And we will forever dismiss the notion, 
am a person who always tries to be opti-. •~',/i.F..;.,,.1.;,_:,.•::.~•·• . often prevalent on campuses, that every­
~1,, 
mistic. Having witnessed this day l . , r /i ·· ; ''\ thing is just another shade of gray, sub-prayer services internationally, rJ .·r:.· · . jl /Jia-1 ; ' ject to intellectual debate. That is not unceasing acts of heroism in our ' . . ' •JA correct. Like the stark contrast
.. ! 
stricken cities, people dressed in ,·, ' ~r between these words and the paper the colors of our flag consoling · ~ · .. they are printed on, there is good each other at the Grotto, my belief and there is bad. And whether is affirmed that there is a silver through prayer, by example or when lining in clouds, even these dread­necessary with brute force, we must fully dark ones. stand ready, every single day, to 
As a country, I think we will pray assure that the good prevails over the more. We will pray with greater bad. meaning when intoning that our These silver linings are already begin-President and other leaders be blessed mng to reveal themselves across our coun­
£.,.I~ /
with wisdom. .,/ / ~ry. Let us work long ~nd ~ard to assure their 
I think we are powerfully reminded of the · radiance does not fade with time. great gift that is our nation and that we are one people. We will feel a heightened pride in the men and women Mark Krcmaric who serve in our armed forces and we will unequivocally class of'80 demand strong defenses. executive assistant ro the vice president for finance 
I think we will have a greater sense of gratitude for our Sept. 14, 2001 
POLL QUESTION 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I doubt whether any ofthem (pacifists) detest war as much
Should the United States use 
as I do. They probably have not seen bodies rotting on the 
military action to respond to the 
ground and smelled the stench ofdecaying human flesh. 
terrorist attacks? 
What separates me from the pacifists is that 
Please e-mail 
I hate the Nazis more than I hate war.,. 
viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
Dwight D. Eisenhower
by Friday to report your answer. 
president 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, September 17, 2001 page 11 
End terrorism by eradicating injustice 
The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 were undeniably tragic. Unfortunately, the latest reactions of the government, the media and most Americans will only serve to aggravate the tragedy by increasing the number of people who will die. 
Now is the time to challenge our current social system to find out why thousands of inno­cent people died. Instead, the media tells us to put our unques­tioning faith in the same government that has failed us. If we give the state more power. it will proceed to kill several thousand primarily innocent poor people, curtail our freedom, divert resources from important social needs, increase global injustice and by doing so recruit another generation of terrorists. 
I find it stunning that so many people claim to care about the victims of the attacks, but yet they will attack anyone who is willing to look everywhere to find the root causes of terrorism; I think their primary error is that they believe that terrorists are psychopaths who are incapable of reason. Instead, I think it is more accurate to argue that terrorists have demonstrated their ability to reason through their ability to plan effective attacks. 
Nobody is born a terrorist. Rather, I believe that peo­ple who experience con­ditions of extreme oppression are capable of being so deeply politicized that they are willing to give up everything and use the most extreme violenfmeans avail­able for their cause. There are tens of millions of people who live through the same terrible conditions but only a very few will be politicized suffi­ciently to become a terrorist. Since one cannot tell who will become a terrorist and since it is impossi­ble to stop someone · who is willing to be a martyr for his or her cause. the only way we can end terrorism is to address its root causes. 
The root causes lie in the world's economic and political systems. These systems are con­trolled by the United States and our rich allies to keep us at the top and every­one else at the bottom. According to the World Bank. in 1998 1.2 billion people lived on less than $1 a day and 2.8 billion lived on less than $2. Poor people suffer from a lack of food, housing, good water, decent jobs, healthcare and education. Poverty terrorizes people and finally kills them. 
Sometimes Third World countries elect progressive governments. Sometimes they dare to assert their independence from U.S. domination and try to achieve greater social justice for their citizens. When this happens, often the CIA or U.S. military will step in to overthrow the government and replace it with a right wing pro-American military die-tatorship. Overthrowing democratic govern­ments, sponsoring death squads and other CIA psychological operations should be called what they are: terrorism. In 1965, in a typical example of U.S. foreign policy, the United States supported a military coup by General Suharto in Indonesia. During the upheaval the Indonesian state killed 1-2 mil­lion people. That was terrorism. 

Now I will address the most difficult issue by looking for causes of terrorism at our own campus. Last Thursday and Friday, the CIA was planning on sending recruiters to a career fair on campus. Two famous Notre Dame graduates who went to work for the CIA wrote books about their experiences. 
If you want to understand why a small group of students was planning on protest­ing the CIA (before the agency cancelled its visit). I encourage you to check out the books in our library by alumni Ralph McGehee and Philip Agee. Ifour University has any moral standards that we apply to recruiters, I am at a loss to explain how the CIA ever managed to qualify. 
While Notre Dame's role in supplying CIA recruits is likely limited, we contribute hun­dreds of young people to the military through our ROTC program. We have trained officers who may participate in upcoming vengeful military action that will kill civilians and provoke further attacks on the United States. In this situation, these 
officers are no longer Catholics living out the gospel of peace but tools of a governmentthatpreachesjus­
tice but only seeks blood. Ifyou examine the case of Osama bin Laden, you will 
find that he benefited from an economic sys­tem that allowed him to accumulate a for­tune of $300 million from CIA training. He got these while ~~ 1.he was an ally of the United States . _. and Saudi govern­':, •' .
''f§. r ments, without l ~, whose initial sup­
, port he would not now be a threat. Later, he began to 
/ oppose the United :., States due to '' American complic­ity in the oppres­
1 
sion of the Palestinian people, the bombing and ·.•..__ ts: sanctions against the t ifr Iraqis and American!i: f I support for Middle 
1
-i, l!; Eastern governments 1i.-,,..'•\ 1 that he wanted to con­vert to follow fundamen­talist Islam. He was driven to adopt violent means because the Saudi government represses nonviolent dissent. 
We must mourn for the dead, but _ so that the victims have not died in vain, we must work to end terrorism by eradicating injustice from our world. A good place to start is to question whether we want to con­tinue to welcome the CIA and ROTC on our "Catholic" campus. 
Aaron Kreider is a graduate student studying sociology. You can email him at kreider. l@nd.edu. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Seeing America's own f au Its after tragedy 
I am very enthusiastic about President Bush's latest response to Tuesday's atrocity. He plans to "rid the world of evil." I would like to say that I am, for once in my life, 100 percent behind Mr. Bush in his decision. 
Of course the first thing to do when you are trying to purge the evil from the planet is examine your own little corner, nook or con­tinent. Our president, as a highly intelligent individual. will of course see the evil that the United States government is implicated in and attempt to rectify the situation. 
Never again will we aid in the military overthrow of a democrati­cally elected government, never again will we send military hard­ware to a country known for using it to oppress its own people, nor will torture techniques be found in any book in a U.S. military library and most of all never again will we sponsor the wholesale slaughter of innocent human beings to punish a government, cor­rupt or otherwise. 
This is why I applaud President Bush for his new resolution against evil. Clearly he will try to remove the log from the eye of America before he ventures out to pluck splinters out of foreign powers. In this case it is truly inconceivable that our good President would permit us to bomb a country such as Afghanistan, where many innocent people who happen to live under a very repressive government would be killed. 
Of course, if Mr. Bush does not really mean that evil is our enemy, if instead he intends to define a group of people as the embodiment of evil, then maybe just saying "evil" is not expressive enough. Perhaps in this case he should refer to these faceless enemies as "the great Satan." But that's not very original then, is it? 
Krista Schoening semor off-campus Sept. 15, 2001 
Seek justice 
rationally and nobly 
On Tuesday, while driving to school for the Mass of mourning, I heard the former mayor of New York City calling for the swift and immediate destruction of cities in countries with terrorist connec­tions. Thursday. I overheard a person in the computer lab telling someone that "we can't trust any of those guys" and that we should go in and "just bomb Afghanistan and any other place involved." 
As I listened to the hate monger in the computer lab that day, I bit my tongue. "This person's words reflected a racist, reac­tionary and ill-informed stance that, unfortunately, the media and others often perpetuate. First of all, who are "those guys" and does that mean just the terrorists, Muslims or all people of Arabic decent? Evidently, the person in the computer lab knew exactly who had perpetrated the terrorist acts. 
The fact is, no one yet knows the full scope of this situation and any decision regarding it must be made with the facts -not an emotional reaction to a perceived enemy. Bombing Afghanistan, whether they harbor Osama bin Laden or not, does absolutely nothing good. Afghanistan is a horribly poor nation with an illiter­acy rate of almost 90 percent. Furthermore, women have virtually no rights and risk death for such things as not dressing properly. What good does it do to bomb a country where 90 percent of the people can't even read a newspaper report of what happened in the United States? 
I agree that our country must find the people responsible for this tragedy and bring them to justice. We do not, however, need to answer senseless murders with more unnecessary killing. Our nation's tragedy has brought out the best in many people, but unfortunately it has brought out the least desirable human traits in others -hate, vengeance and rage. These words describe those who hijacked planes and attacked the World Trade Center buildings and the Pentagon. Americans should not respond to these hateful acts in the same fashion. We must mourn our dead, praise our heroes and seek justice in rational and noble fashion. 
Mike Mansour 
senior 
off-campus Sept. 14, 2001 
O
THE 
BSERVER 





its 

page 12 Monday, September 1_7, 2001 


French living, American life and universal tragedy 
Like everyone else. the only word I can find to describe the past six days is "surreal." 
Perfect strangers tap my shoulder on the Metro and tell me they are pray­ing for my country. Waiters in cafes ask if I've heard from my family and friends back home. My professors begin class by trying to express in crude 
English (something French professors never do) their 
country's sympathy for and solidarity with our suffer­
ing. 

When I call home, all anyone talks about are the 
bombings and the latest news. But thousands of miles 
away, I can't escape it either. 
I walk to school and every news kiosk I pass is plas­
tered with the same horrible pictures of the World 
Trade Center's last few minutes. I go sight-seeing, try­
ing to be a tourist, and all I see are flags at half-mast. I 
go to Mass and every church has notices on the doors 
about prayer services for the victims and perpetual 
adoration' to pray for peace. I visit museums, only to be 
patted down and have my bag searched before I can 
enter. 

Headlines scream, "Apocalypse" and "The New War." 
And my French vocabulary is now enriched with words 
like "terrorist," "bombing" and "plane crash." 
Being far away at a time like this is difficult. I want to define myself as an American, to proclaim proudly that if you mess with my country, we'll make you regret it, make no mistake. But at the same time, I feel unsafe in my own skin. I try not to speak in English on the streets and I avoid touristy places where Americans are known to gather. I am trying to be more American and more French at the same time. 
Though Europe was not the direct victim of last week's attacks, the world has changed here too. Police with machine guns patrol every subway stop and trash bins are sealed over to prevent bombings. Everyone rushes home a little more quickly, hugs their purse a little tighter and watches where they go and what they say. 
Europeans are feeling the same loss of innocence and security as Americans. The French are very much on edge, especially with the latest news that the American embassy in Paris might have been a target for another thwarted round of bombings. I listen to conversations on the street and bits of radio broadcasts, and as in America, it's all anyone talks about. The whole world is scared and wondering what will happen next. 
But for me, that seems the only light in this sickening darkness is the real and comforting knowledge that we are all in this together. Calling last Tuesday's atrocities "crimes against humanity" is not simply rhetoric; those terrorists robbed us all of the essential right to live in peace and security. 
When French President Jacques Chirac, Russian President Vladimir Putin and British Prime Minister Tony Blair rushed to voice their support for the US, their people followed right behind. The outpouring of support and sym­pathy I have witnessed in this country in the last week has amazed me. Newspapers and homilies alike refer to Americans as "our brothers and sis­ters" and call upon those here to help in any way they can. 
There are few sources of comfort in such an uncertain and angry time, but the support of our allies world-wide was best summed up for me in the sim­ple words of a professor who barely speaks our language: ''It is like, when America weeps, we all weep. Because you who are so strong, when you are wounded, we all fear. So, we show our support to you, at this unthinkable thing that has come to pass." 
The three minutes of silence respected across Europe at noon on Friday may have been just a blip in many accounts of the day of mourning, but here it was an astounding event. Cash registers stopped ringing and buses stopped in the streets -the day literally stood still while people closed their eyes in prayer. Far from a cheesy, "We Are The World" sentimentality, last Tuesday taught me that Americans are not alone in this fight against terror­ism, that across the globe we are united by our very humanity. 
Laura Kelly is a junior who hopes to major in French and English. She has been laughing at her own dumb mistakes for several weeks and can be reached at lkelly@nd.edu. French Connection will appear every Monday in Scene. The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Actors from· the Lo 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS Associate Scene Editor 
The immortal words of The Bard will return to Washington Hall this week as the Actors from the London Stage (AFTLS) presents "A Midsummer Night's Dream." 
The AFTLS began performing in 197 5 when the Royal Shakespeare Company was touring the U.S. Professor Homer Swander of the University of California at Santa Barbara (UCSB) arranged for five actors from the culled from various London theatre companies. The AFTLS counts many notable actors among their alumni including Patrick Stewart. Ian Richardson and Tony Church. 
The group remained based out of UCSB until 1994 when the program through which it was sponsored, A Center for Theatre, Education and Research (ACTER). moved to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The group again relo­cated, this time without ACTER, in 2000, to Notre Dame as part of the University's 
company to stay at A Midsummer Shakespeare Initiative. UCSB and do a few Because the AFTLS
Night's Dream 
performances as well travels by van to each of as a teach-in. The per­. Actors from the London their residencies, the 
formances were such a Stage . Washington Hall shows are set in a mini­
success that Swander malist fashion with vir­
. Thursday through
decided to make the tually no set pieces visit a yearly event; Saturday 7:30 p.m. except chairs provided 
however, he made the actors' stay longer and included other univer­sities in their tour. 
Initially, the group was called Actors from the Royal Shakespeare Company. However, when the group began bringing Shakespearian actors from other London theatre groups. it seemed more appropriate to change the name to the AFTLS. 
The cast rotates each year and consists of about five performers by the university that they are visiting. 
The cast uses sparse costume pieces and props to visually distin­guish the characters 
that they play on stage. But Shakespeare's plays can have up to 30 roles, so the AFTLS must use their theatrical abilities to create a sense of complete composition. 
Any person who has seen the AFTLS perform will recognize the versatility that these actors have. 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, September 17, 2001 page 13 

ndon Stage return to Notre Dame to teach The Bard. 
and having them form of theatre that the Alexandra Lilley, Suezanne come speak to his AFTLS teaches. The perform­Packer from the Royal Court classes. ers are willing to help stu­Theatre Company, Paul Interestingly dents with just about any Panting from the Harrogate enough, having type of text as long as they Theatre Company and professionally have prior notification. Matthew Radford of the trained Furthermore, the AFTLS does Royal Exchange Theatre Shakespearian not only teach theatre and Company of Manchester. actors address English classes, but also Radford has visited Notre 
theatre and branches out into other fields Dame before when the English students of study like comparative lit­AFTLS presented "Twelfth was conspicu­erature and psychology. Night" in 1999. 
ously rare "A Mid Summer Night's "A Midsummer Night's when the pro­Dream" marks the AFTLS's Dream" will begin this gram was eighth residency at Notre Thursday and runs until founded. Dame. Saturday. All performances 
The in-depth The residency has been are in Washington Hall and knowledge of brought to campus by the begin at 7:30 p.m. 
the shows that Office of the Provost, the Tickets are $16 for general the actors have College of Arts and Letters' admission, $14 for senior cit­makes teaching Shakespeare Initiative, the izens and $12 for all stu­
a natural pro­Department of · Film, dents. 
gression, Television, and Theatre and Tickets are available at the although none of the Department of English. LaFortune Student Center the cast members Next semester, the group Ticket Office or by calling 
are trained acade­will return for a ninth resi­(219) 631-8128. mics. However, teach­dency to present "Macbeth" ing is not limited to lec­from Feb. 20-23. tures, in fact, the AFTLS "A Midsummer Night's insists that students leave Dream" will be presented by
During their seats and participate in veteran English Shakespeare

the fall Contact C. Spencer Beggs at 
scenes. Company alumni Sean Gilder,

2001 perfor­the beggs.3@nd.edu.
Shakespeare is not the only West Yorkshire Playhouse's
mance of "As 
1an ­

you Like it," one of guage of 
the actors had to wrestle Shakespeare that they feel 
with himself because he was it is important to teach in 
playing both the parts of their classes. And because Orlando and of the number of roles Charles. each actor must perform,Although, they are extremely well such scenes acquainted with each are difficult to show. make clear, The AFTLS currently has 
the AFTLS. 

a nine-week tour each performers semester. The tour is divid­have the ed into one-week residen­remarkable cies at various American ability to universities. Each residen­make five sim­cy consists of three perfor­ply attired mances of a full-length actors appear Shakespeare play, two per­to be a whole formances of a "one-han­company. der" (a one-person show 
The AFTLS created by a member of brings out the the cast) and up to 30 class beauty of teach-in sessions. Shakespeare's Although, the most con­language in tact a campus may seem to such a capti­have with the AFTLS is vating way from its performances, the that they do group spends most of its not need elab­time teaching. orate extras Teaching Shakespeare~ 
or over-pro­

the real focus of the AFTLS duction to program. Swander was present their notorious for contactingshows. It is touring Shakespeare actors 



Scene is looking for writers, copy editors and music or movie reviewers. Interested? E-mail scene@nd.edu or call 1-4540. 
Monday, September 17, 2001 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
FORMULA ONE 

Montoya takes somber victory at Grand Prix 
Associated Press 
MONZA, Italy 
Juan Montoya won Sunday's Italian Grand Prix on a somber day of auto racing at a track that is usually among the most bois­terous in the sport. 
The Colombian won for the first time in Formula One in a race preceded by an aborted action by drivers in which a no­passing rule was proposed. 
The race was subdued not only because of the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington but because of Saturday's CART race in Germany in which star driver Alex Zanardi lost both his legs. 

.. I'm glad this weekend is over," world championship dri­ver Michael Schumacher said. 
Montoya displayed a black band on his white-and-blue overalls at the victory ceremony. 
Fans quietly applauded, with few flags waving and few horns playing -a restrained ·response suggested by Ferrari president Luca Di Montezemolo. One man waved a U.S. flag from the stands. 
Montoya, a former CART champion in his first Formula One season, won in a Williams BMW -5.1 seconds ahead of Ferrari's Rubens Barrichello. 
Ralf Schumacher, in a second Williams BMW, was third. Michael Schumacher, his fourth season title already assured, was fourth. 
"It was a great day for me, because my father was here and it was his birthday.... Just one year ago I had my last win in a CART race," Montoya said. 
Before the start, drivers and fans observed a minute of silence. Drivers of 11 teams lined up on a parade truck stationed in the finish line area and stood before the standing crowd. 
Three teams -Ferrari, Jordan and Jaguar -had black mourning signs on their cars. 
The race began after a dispute in which Michael Schumacher said most drivers had agreed to no passing through the two curves next to the starting grid. 
The move was made not only in response to the terrorism and Zanardi's crash, but to last year's accident at Monza in which a race official was killed. 
A spokesman for Schumacher's team said some teams opposed the move, ending possible action by the drivers. 
Montoya covered the 53 laps in 1 hour, 16 minutes, 58.493 sec­onds, averaging nearly 126 mph. 
Barrichello's bid for his second career victory was hurt by a long pit stop in which mechanics had problems with the fuel pump. 

Spain's Pedro De La Rosa, in a Jaguar, was fifth and Canada's Jacques Villeneuve, in a Bar Honda, was sixth. Both McLaren Mercedes drivers, David Coulthard and Mika Hakkinen, did not finish. 
Barrichello moved three points behind second-place Coulthard in the standings -Coulthard has 57 and Barrichello 54. Michael Schumacher, who clinched the 2001 title in Hungary, has 107. 
If Barrichello overtakes Coulthard, Ferrari will finish 1-2 in the standings. 
'. 
The Observer accepts classifieds ev;ry business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

ON CALL BABYSITTER NEEDED.  FOOSBALL ­ Looking for high  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM- Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  For Sale Navy, WVA, Pitt, GAs 654­ 
LOST AND FOUND  NEAR ND. FOR DETAILS CALL 273-2872.  level players. Do you have it? D 257-4441.  Call  PUS mmmrentals.com  with orthopedic mattress set All new, never used, still in plastic.  0168  
i-z­ email: mmmrentals@aoLcom  $235. 219-862-2082.  $$ NEED 8 TIX 4 WVU  
WANTED:  Looking tor someone to care  915-241-5999  
Highly organized, experienced legal  tor/play with my 4 & 6 year old boys  HOUSE FOR RENT: 1) 9-bdr  60x30 desk 60x30x72 desk + office  
LOST WHITE GOLD NUGGET NECKLACE. PROBABLY NEAR REGINA HALL  secretary or assistant to Pl trial lawyer for new, spacious offices next to Notre Dame campus; hours  while I work in home office. 3-5 hours per week ­flexible. 5 miles from campus.  $2400/month. 2) 5-bdr $1500/month. 3) 4-bdr $1000/month. Call Bill at 532-1896  chairs. 287-3373 ask for Cindy. Gently used loveseat + chair.  ND-PURDUE fooball tix for sale. Cheap! AM -232-2378  
AT SAINT MARY'S.  flexible; competitive pay and bene- Tricia 232-1285  Taupe w/ muted pinstripes; wood  PM • 288-2726  
GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE.  fits..  ND/Mich. St  trim ­ "Broyhill" $150 674-6150  
THIS IS INSURED SO WE WILL  . Call 231-1868 and leave message.  Hotel-sleeps 4  Need 2 Purdue tickets! Call  
BE PID IF NOT SURRENDERED.  Jacuzzi-refrig-hottub-exercise-rm­ 52055 Old Post Lane  Maureen at 233-8513  
BUT WE WANT IT BACK, PLEASE. CALL 765-659-4928. HANDSOME REWARD.  Sitter wanted by professor for two boys (7&10) some evenings and late afternoons.  Looking for a female English tutor for Japanese native girl aged 8 in Granger. Twice a week $40 (1 hour each some time between 4 to 7  pool-food-piygrd-shuttle-min 3 nites $175/nite 9/21-9/27 219-291-5849 / 255-1020  Spacious 4 bdrm, 2-story on private lane in Farmington Square. 2373 SF + professionally finished base­ment Call Jack at 280-7730.  NEED 2 GA'S TO TENNESSEE. WILL CONSIDER OTHER CALL  
NO QUESTIONS ASKED  Constable.1@nd.edu or 234-9597 Wanted by elderly couple a respon­ pm). Contact Yoshi at 219-654­1219  B&B 4 rooms tor N.D. footbalL  Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty.  JACK 67 4-6593.  
Lost High School Class Ring Chillicothe High School Jessica inscribed on the inside Please return! Girlfriend will kill me Please call 634-3580  sible man or woman graduate stu­dent to drive our car for errands or short drives from our home in NO neighborhood. Wages per hour negotiable. 288-0074  Mom's helper. Seek student to help with twins 10­20 hrs/moth. Good pay. Full description available by e-mail  3 miles from N.D. Best location. 287-4545 Spacious 4 bdrm, 2-story on private lane in Farmington Square. 2737  Futon w/solid wood frame $500. _ Krups cappucino & coffee maker $70. Sony cordless phone & answering machine $30. 277-0666.  WILL TRADE TICKETS. ND FOOT• BALL FOR U2. 232-0964  
Lost a silver bracelet possibly in South Quad directly outside Dillon  Wanted by elderly couple a respon­sible man or woman graduate stu­ request: JennyLack@aoLcom  SF+ professionally finsihed base­ment Call Jack at 280-7730. Century 21 Jim Ounfree Realty.  LOUD 3-way speakers. 125 w. ea. 12· drivers. $250 obo/parL Call  WANTED U2 TICKETS. 232-0964 Need 2-3A&M vs ND tickets. Call  
Hall's front door. Bracelet has a gold plate with the  dent to drive our car for errands or short drives from our home in ND  Babysitter(s): non-smoker, playful, responsible. Needed for various  Villa-style home tor rent 2 bed- Mike 4-4695  Pat ­277-2243. ----····...................................-..­....-.......____..........  
inscription "TJ 1999 LIV." lffound,  neighborhood. Wages per hour  times: Mon & Th. Fternoons (12-5),  room, attatched 2 car garage.  '88 GMC pikcup truck. Looks good,  2 ND-Purdue tickets for sale. 277­ 
,.  please call 4-0951 and leave a message for T J. REWARD over $50.  negotiable. 288-0074. Babysitter needed Seeking experienced caregiver to help mother with oddler and infant  Sat nights. Girl 3, Boy 5. In Granger. 273-9476 SEEKING STUDENT FOR PART  Clean, Cross Creek subdivision. $850/month. 679-9480. Apt 2-bedroom. $350/ person including utiL $150 dep. Close to  runs great Call Mark at 273-0449. Cano"n Bubble Jet 4200 printer. $100 288-4241  9322. Help! Need 8 WV tix! 243-0928  Call Kerry at  
in our home. Needing assistance 2  TIME REPRESENTATION ON  Notre Dame. 120 W. Cripe St. 277­ Need MSU tix!  Call Lora at 243•  
WANTED  times per week in later afternoon. Must have own transportation.  CAMPUS FOR SCREEN PRINT & EMBROIDERY COMPANY. FLEX  9455.  SPRING BREAK  0928 _____..__.,..............-....­..............................._,.___  
ROOMMATE WANTED:  Training in CPR and first aid pre­ferred. $7.00 per hour. Please call  HOURS & FLEX PAY. CALL DAVE AT 800-813-2113.  Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises!  Tickets swap USC for TN upto 6. Days 901 -332-6735  
Looking for a male or female rommate for house off-campus at 822 N. Francis St.  219-287-5086 for appointment. WANTED: Assistant to trial layer with desktop  Seeking part-time Daycare provider for two children. Granger area,. Own transportation required.  FOR SALE  Rep positions. Free Drinks and Free Trips available. www.EpicuRRean.com. 1-800-231­4-FUN.  PERSONAL  
Close to campus.  publishing skills for new spacious  References. Call 277-1622.  
If interested, call 288-8249  offices next to Notre Dame campus;  This terrific one bedroom condo in  SENIORS:  
part-time or flexible hours; competi- STUDENT WORK  Woodbridge Condominiums is close  Senior Portraits taken until Sept.  
tive hourly wage.  $14.05 Base-appt. Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust.  enough to walk to ND. Why rent? Own this for $62,900! Cobntact  TICKETS  21. Sign up now @ www.Laurenstudios.com while  
Seeking part-time Daycare provider  Call 231-1868 and leave message.  svcJsales positions (5-20 hrs)  Prudential One Realty or Cherie  there is still space available.  
tor two childen. Granger area. Own transportation required,  ROOMMATE WANTED:  Flex around classes. Scholarships. Cond. apply  TeRoller at 284-2600.  BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  I want the haunted room  
I ' ! I ) ( I I ' '  References. Call 277-1622. RESPONSIBLE, QUALITY CHILD· . CARE NEEDED in my home for 3 year old & 7 month old. Monday thru Thursday 2:30 pm • 5 pm. 1 Saturday a month. Own transportation required. 5 mins from ND. Major in early childhood develop­ment or child psychology a plus. References required. Call 288-6795.  Campus View Apartments Private bedroom & PRIVATE BATHROOM!!! Large kitchen. Free parking. $282.5/month. Contact me at quw@nd.edu. Emergency call: 219-243-2383 PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal shelter just 1omin from campus, urgently needs FOSTERS and VOLUNTEERS for its cats and dogs. Please e-mail webmaster@petre­fuge.com, visit www.petretuge.com, or call 256-0886.  www.worktorstudents.com/np can M-W 12-5 pm 282-2357 ND prof seeks reliable person for daytime babysitting of 2-yr-old on MW 8:30 am-12:30 pm. Generous rates. Well-behaved child. Transp. req'd. (5 min. from ND). 288-4170 or kbaldwin@nd.edu .......................................................................................... Wanted: Childcare tor four children, Monday afternoons, close to cam­pus, for approx. 5 hours Must have own carr. Please Call 237-1981  Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen w/ appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254-1772 for more into. PARADISE LAKE Newly rehabbed, 6 bedroom, year round home on low traffic, al sports lake 30 min. from Notre Dame. Tranquil setting with spectacular views from every room. Near Cassopolis, Ml and Swiss Valley Ski area. $234,000. 708-203-2685.  277-6619 GA's 4 USC, MSU, TN, WVA 271­1654 WANTED-ND TICKETS 289-9280 ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 Tickets swap USC for TN up to 6. Days 901-332-6735 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726  Moo Boo Moo Hi there to my favorite desk worker ... Cori Page p.s. -I had to fight the ANE lo get your shout out heard Myra loves Al Green there's ... nothing wrong • with me • Loving you ... Thanks to all my girlies who took care of their sick friend tonight. You guys rock!  
LOVE KIDS? WANT TO EARN GOOD $$  IN-HOME NANNY needed to care for infant. Must have transportation. Experience with infants and refer­ences required.  Spanish translation needed tor edu­cational material. Good pay. Work at home. IHRD (8-5, M-F) 273­8857.  Thi& terrific one bedroom condo in Woodbridge Condominiums is close enough to walk to ND. Why rent? Own this $62,900! Contact  ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. 232-0964 GA Tix 4 Pitt gm 271-1654  Lauren • you are on the road to bein the next best Obsever production person. But only if you work with me!  
BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS A WEEK? Area family needs individual to care for our two daughters Mon-Fri from 3-6pm starting mid-Sept. Mom attends grad school in Chicago. Girls are fun and delightful! Transportation needed. Generous pay! If interested, please call Karen Stonehill at 272-5013.  Congact Dr. Knoedler at 631-4262 or aknoedle@nd.edu. Seeking student for part time repre­sentation on campus for screen print & embroidery company. Flex hrs and flex pay. Call Dave at 800­813-2113. After school care for two children, 3 pm • 5:30 pm. Good payl Please call Lisa 631-9947 or 277-8564.  FOR RENT THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418-9487  Prudential One Realty or Cherie TeRoller at 284-2600. ----------­For Sale. Large desk w/credenza. $400. 282-2228. ---...........---------·----------------·.................. COMFORT AND PRIVACY ­great 2 bdrm ­near ND. Appliances including WNDR stay. Garage. 919 N. Twyckenham. $59,900 Cressy and Everett 277-2666.  Buying some / Selling a few extra N.D. Football Tickets 219-289­8048 A businessman·needs football sea­son tickets *GAs only* Will buy individual games 277-1659 Wanted: 4-6 tickets for USC. Seats do not have to be together. Call Nicole 233-8513  Beware 249 • Molly and her friends arrive on Friday. There will be much debauchery this weekend! It's so quiet around here without the TV on. Who knew? Its really sad when you have to call your roommates to bring you kleenex and Oay-OuiL I think its time I start sleeping more!  

Monday, September 17, 2001 
page 15
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Baroness Shirley Williams, the Catholic intellectual who helped to reshape the landscape of British politics, deputy leader and foreign-policy spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats in the House of Lords 
The Second Annual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 
• 



God and Caesar: The Church and Public Life 
September 13, ?001 The Challenge of Modernity September 18, 2001 The Death of Deference September 19, 2001 Enter Eve September 20, 2001 Christians and Politics 
The Morality of Globalization 
January 15, 2002 Global Inequality and the Gospel of the Poor January 17, 2002 The New Horsemen of the Apocalypse January 22, 2002 Science as God January 24, 2002 Coming Together: Vision and Values 

All lectures are held on consecutive Tuesdays and Thursdays in the . auditorium ofthe Hesburgh Center for International Studies and 
. 
begin at 4 p. m. 

. _, ·--->:--~----··----········--· ---......... ..,...,, " 

-~-·-N S T I T U T E

ERASMUS 


Initial funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the generosity of an anonymous donor, The Pew Charitable Trusts, the William J. Carey Endowment, and the University of Notre Dame 




-------··---­
Monday, September 17, 2001 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
RYDER CUP 

Board postpones event until Sept. 2002 
l 
"All I can feel at the moment is foot putt by Justin Leonard and and officials had not been with­Tim Finchem said his organiza­
Associated Press 

t 
l 
\ an immense sadness. There will a celebration that offended drawn but extended, Platts said, tion supports the Ryder Cup be time enough to talk further Europe. and the process of rescheduling postponement.
LONDON 

about the 34th Ryder Cup Jim Awtrey, PGA of America the matches for 2002 would "It became apparent over the
The Ryder Cup was post­

matches taking place next year." chief executive officer, said the begin as soon as possible. last several days that the chal­
poned for one year on Sunday

\ U.S. captain Curtis Strange organization appreciated the It has been agreed the match­lenges posed by international 
\ because of terrorist attacks in 
\ called the postponement "very respect shown by the Ryder Cup es will take place with the same travel and time away from fami­
the United States. 

appropriate in light of the situa­board. captains, Torrance for the lies for innumerable fans and
The European Ryder Cup 

tion." "Given the enormity of the European team and Curtis sponsors of the Ryder Cup
board said the event, scheduled 

"The tragedy in America tragedy in America, we Strange for the United States, matches made it impossible to
for Sept. 28-30 at The Belfry in 

caused us all to reflect and eval­informed European officials of and the same 10 qualified play­hold to the original schedule," 
England, will be played in 

uate our own lives and relation­our desire to postpone the ers and two wild cards already he said. 
September 2002 at the same 

ships with family and friends," matches until next year,'' nominated. European Ryder Cup rookie
location. 

he said. "Our hearts and prayers Awtrey said. Woods had stressed his con­Pierre Fulke of Sweden said
The PGA of America informed 

go out to all those affected by "We understand this is a hard­cern about making the trip to most of his teammates wanted
I 
the Eur.opean board that the 
last Tuesday's disaster." ship for them to reschedule the Paris. to play but fully understood the
scope of Tuesday's strikes in 

The Ryder Cup, which began matches next year ... but it was "I have always felt that I must reasons for the postponement. 
J 
New York and Washington was 
in 1927 and is played every important to us that the matches be fully committed to each and "Under the circumstances it's
"so overwhelming that it would 

other year, was interrupted for be played and not canceled," he every golf competition I enter, the only decision that could have 
be impossible for the United 

six years during World War II. It added. but due to this week's events, I been made," he said.
States Ryder Cup team and offi­
has become one of the biggest "We will work with our coun­am not," he said. "I also fear "Everybody's gut feeling after
cials to attend the matches this 

events in golf, and this year's terparts in Europe over the next that the security risks of travel­Tuesday was that the Ryder Cup 
month." 

matches were the most antici­year to ensure that the 34th ing overseas at the present time would be in danger and you
"We have been placed in a 

pated. Ryder Cup matches are played are too great." have to understand the
position beyond our control and 

I 
Two years ago, the United in the spirit in which they were The PGA Tour will resume this American players who did not
therefore the matches, out of 

States pulled off the greatest meant." week after calling off a tourna­want to travel, and it's the only
necessity, have been post­

comeback in history with a 45-The invitation for the U.S team ment. PGA Tour commissioner decision."
poned," European Ryder Cup 

\ 
Board spokesman Mitchell Platts said. 

Tiger Woods had already pulled out of this week's Trophy .1' Wet Your Whistle! Lan come in Paris, citing safety 
• (and stuff your face) 

and the appropriateness of playing at such a time. "I feel strongly that this is a DAILYSPECIALS § Bigtime to pause, reflect and 
Rated # 1 Hot Wings ~\ \ Screen
remember the victims of 
in the area -...­

Tuesday's horrific attack," he TVs said on his Web site. European Ryder Cup captain 
Monday Night Football 
Sam Torrance said the decision 
Buckets of Wings &
was one of "common sense." "What happened in America 


Half-Priced Pitchers 
last week has put the Ryder Cup 

l t 
t 
! 
• II 
' 
! I l 
! 
.' ! / I
i ; 

'.Ri½a Mondays 
We do Mondays like no place else. Enjoy a double order of fajifas (enoush for fwo) for jusf +11!* 
Baby Back 'N Brew Wednesdays

, 

} .-7 "I wanf my Baby Back.." 
Enjoy a fuII rack of Chili's® famous double basfed. flame srilied} Baby Back Ribs wi±h cinnamon apples and homes±yie fries for jus± .9.99 !** 
.,

C 
IS® 
&BAR 


Mishawaka 4810 Grape Rd. 219-271-1330 


.Mus+ be at leas+ 21 years of aee to consume. alcohol. 
•Offer valid every Monday 11 a.m TO cloae.. **Offer eood every Wednesday 11 a.m. to dose. 

As the global telecommunications industry OPPORllJNlTY lN NEW JERSEY grows, so does the level and intensity of competition. At AT&T, we build on our FINANCIAL LEADERSHIP achievements and seize new opportunities PROGRAM worldwide by relying on our employees. We 
Designed to provide participants with the believe that tenacity in the face of fierce 
opportunity for development and growth of 
competition and dedication to winning are technical and management/leadership 
among the key attributes required for success. 
competencies in an accelerated fashion 
That is why our people are our major through diverse job rotations and hands-on 
competitive advantage for the future. 
classroom training through a two and a half 
year curriculum. Participants develop critical 
skills in several financial disciplines andFor more information, plfase visit our website at 
receive leadership and personal effectiveness www.att.com/flp training which is maximized through the 
application of AT&rs dynamic and changing AT&T wants you to build your capabilities and grow business and participation in team projects with US-We are committed to your development and individual job rotations. Seize this by offering state-of-the-art technology and opportunity ta learn from AT&T e~ecutives immense resources to fuel your growth as well as through »Leadership Insight Dialogues• and generous salaries and benefits. 
become a future leader of the Finance Organization and ultimately AT&T• 
• AT&T It's all within your reach. 
The English Department hosts 
Career Night 
for English majors and all Arts and Letters students 
Meet representatives of fourteen career paths 
Tuesday, September 18 
7:00 pm DeBartolo 102 

I , I 

Monday, September 17, 2001 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


Ballplayers will return to the field tonight 
will continue singing. everybody was first of all try­this weekend at Jacobs Field, admitted he might have trou­
Associated Press 

Hollywood actors will go on ing to find people alive on the the Cleveland star took a ble Monday night when he 
making movies. highway, fires downtown and called third strike from John starts for Arizona at Coors 
Less than a week after the So the ballplayers will stuff like that, making sure Rocker. Field in Denver. events that changed America return, too, as will athletes in everybody was safe. That was Fryman argued, and then "We might physically be and the world, baseball told all pro and college sports in priority No. 1, and it has to threw his batting helmet from there, but mentally our minds teams they've got a job to do: the coming days. be," he said. the dugout at the plate umpire might possibly be elsewhere, Play, and make the games And the crowds at Dodger St. Louis manager Tony La -who happened to be head and that's understandable," he seem as if they matter again. Stadium, Veterans Stadium Russa was guiding the groundskeeper Brandon said. 
When major league ball and Coors Athletics to a Koehnke. St. Louis pitcher Steve Kline returns Monday, the standings Field will champi­Later, Fryman apologized. said: "We're still trying to win and statistics will be exactly as cheer, ..That's one ofthe onship that For others, it will be incredi­something, even though it they were. although beauties ofthe game. October. bly difficult. seems shameless and useless." 
Barry Bonds is still chasing maybe not as During the New York Yankees' left field­At Yankee Stadium this
Once the game starts, 

Mark McGwire's home-run loudly as delay, he er Chuck Knoblauch watched weekend, the team gathered
you're able to forget 

record and more than a dozen before. tried to keep the World Trade Center tow­on one knee at the pitcher's . teams are still in pennant No lack of about everything else.,, his team ers crumble from his apart­mound, heads bowed. Two chases. respect there. focused. ment window. employees in the Yankees' 
But will anyone watch, will Ballgames "That team Minnesota DH David Ortiz ticket office lost sons in 
Greg Maddux 

anyone care? won't mean was peaking. heard the crash through his Tuesday's attacks. 
"They asked me a few days any less, only Braves pitcher I worried telephone while talking with a At Shea Stadium, vehicles ago when I thought we should now other about it," he friend. with supplies for the relief play again," Minnesota first things mean said. "The Houston second baseman effort gathered in the parking baseman Doug Mientkiewicz a whole lot only thing Craig Biggio lot while the said. "I said spring training." more. we did was just give them an counseled New York 
Instead, with U.S. flags on The national·pastime has opportunity to work." his brother, ..There are probably Mets worked players' caps and uniforms, tried to help heal the nation in At Veterans Stadium, an air traffic out inside.
players in their minds 

fans wearing the stars and the past. Atlanta will play Philadelphia controller On Monday stripes, and "God Bless During World War II, in a key NL East series. Braves who handled who, even though they night, the America" set to replace "Take President Roosevelt urged the pitcher Greg Maddux expects one of the are compensated very Mets will play Me Out to the Ball Game" dur­sport to keep going, saying it he'll be ready Monday night. doomed the Pirates.
well, are just for bagging 

ing the seventh-inning stretch, would boost the country's "It's weird. I can't really flights. Originally the games will go on. morale and mend part of its explain it. You go out there, "There are the season.,, scheduled for As they should. torn fabric. they hand you a brand new probably Shea, the "It is important for America In 1989, an earthquake ball and everything changes," players in whole series
Don Baylor

to get on about its life," said interrupted the World Series he said. "That's one of the their minds was shifted to
Cubs manager

President Bush, the former co­between the Oakland Athletics beauties of the game. Once the who, even PNC Park in owner of the Texas Rangers. and San Francisco Giants. game starts, you're able to though they Pittsburgh. 
The Chicago Symphony Arizona third baseman Matt forget about everything else." are compen-T h e Orchestra will keep perform-Williams was playing for the Travis Fryman had no trou­sated very Yankees' first ing. · Giants during that crisis. ble recapturing his in tensity. well, are game back in 
The New York City Opera "The initial concern for 
1n 
produced by ProShow and Celebrated Events 


September 23r)001 ~ t
'-entury cen er 
12:00 -5:00 pm General admission, $5 per pers0n at the door 
10:00 am -5:00 pm VIP admission, $15 per person, advance sale or:ly; includes luncheon with food stations and strolling fashion show 
reaister to win! 
a honeymoor, p::ickage sponsored t?y Premier Travel a Superclubs honeymoon package sponsored by Travel more 
contact 

Jessica at ProShow, 271-7469 for VIP tickets and more information 
'·1 . 
i~ 
-. .,'\t_y'}.")?}. ,:\f~.~:,~',
-r· .. .. 
. ....,~...._1' . ~,..•••.-;.: ·. ..,......;_ 
. ~Ii Ii I; ~~, --;/ <C 

lllllliJWliZIJW 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK AND PANCAKE BREAKFAST SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 11:00 -STEPAN CENTER 

~~:< 
~.:,,.,__. . 
.,.. 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $6.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE DEADLINE FOR ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS 9/28/00 AT 5:00PM STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
T-SHIRTS DONATED BY THE ND ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 

.. .HU.'-l!n~lll. 
During an intrasquad game  just for bagging the season,"  the Bronx will be next week  
Chicago Cubs manager Don  against Tampa Bay. Devil Rays  
Baylor said. "If you  are  a  pitcher Tanyon Sturtze is not  
human being and American,  looking forward to that flight  
I'm sure guys don't think this  into New York.  
is as important as it was."  "My shades will be down,"  
Randy Johnson, baseball's  he said. "I won't be looking at  
most  intimidating pitcher,  anything."  


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
ATHENS, GREECE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Julliet Mayinja, Assistant Director International Study Programs And Returning Students 
**************************************************** 
Wednesday, Sept. 19, 2001 
5:00 PM 214 DeBartolo 
Applicaton Deadline: Oct. 1, 2001 for Spring, 2002 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September I 7, 2001 
NFL 

\. 
\ 
\ 
Giants meet real
\ 
. 
i 
l 
) 
) 
I 
) heroes in New York 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
About 35 New York Giants spent more than 90 minutes Saturday shaking hands and thanking rescue workers search­ing for survivors in the rubble at the World Trade Center. 
"It was an unbelievable effort," said fullback Greg Comella. "One guy told me he had been work­ing for 20 hours straight and that he lost his brother. It was worse than anything on TV." 
The players were ferried from Jersey City to Manhattan in shifts by New York City Police boats starting around 1 p.m. 
The players had brought sup­plies for the rescue workers to a staging area in Jersey City, when_ they decided to see if they could go to the financial district and lend moral support. 
"The guys didn't know if it was the right thing to do," said Pat Hanlon, the team's vice presi­dent of communications. "But they saw that what they did car­ries weight. At the end of the day, they felt like they'd done something." 
The players were allowed to 
go almost right up to the rubble 
of the twin towers, Hanlon said. 
"Everybody all week long who 
has seen the destruction first­
hand has said it's surreal," 
Hanlon said. "It is. To anybody who has been in the financial 

district, it's incomprehensible 
what it looks a like now." 
Hanlon said rescue workers 
seemed to enjoy the visit from 
the defending NFC champions, 
who lost 31-20 in their season 
opener on Monday night in 
Denver. 

The next morning hijackers 
rammed two jetliners into the 
World Trade Center, bringing 
down both towers. 
Media who cover the team 
were not allowed to accompany 
the players to the site, so Hanlon 
recounted a lighthearted conver­
sation wide receiver Joe 
Jurevicius and quarterback 
Kerry Collins had with a fire­
fighter. 

"You cost me money in my 
fantasy league," the firefighter 
said. "You catch any one of those 
passes Collins threw to you 
Monday night, I win." . 
"Not his fault," Collins said. "I 
should have thrown it farther 
out there." 

"You're right!" the firefighter. 
said good-naturedly. "You 
should have!" 

What was inescapable for the 
Giants was the enormity of the 
task being performed. 
"It's an immense logistical 'nightmare," guard Glenn Parker 
said. "It's amazing how well they 
are handling it." 
"We met a lot of heroes today, 
true heroes," Hanlon said. 

THE 
BSE 

is now accepting applications for 
SCENE EDITOR 
Applicants should have creative ideas, good knowledge of Quark XPress, Adobe Photoshop and a solid under­standing of AP style. Please call 631-4542 zpith further questions about the position. All applications are due to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly at 024 South Dining Hall by 5 p.m. Wednesday. 





LONDONPROG 


APPLICATION MEETING 
FOR FALL 2002 AND SPRING 2003 
Tuesday, September 18, 2001 101 DeBartolo 6:30 pm 

ALL SOPHOMORE·S WELCOME! 
.L. 

Monday, September 17, 2001 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
last season with an injury, and junior Jessica Kosco. 
Blue finished third for the Belles right behind Zaininger in 27th place with a time of 21:12. Kosco came in fourth for the Belles in 29th place with a time of 21:18, and Gillen finished 29 seconds later with a 34th place finish and a time of 21:47. 

The overall team score of 104 was good enough to top North Central College, North Park University, Trinity Christian, Trinity Internatfonal, Waubonsee Community College and Chicago State University. 
Elmhurst College won the meet, finishing four of its scorers in the top 10 and wrapping a team total of 24. Augustana College took home second place with a team total of 32. 
This weekend the Belles will take on their first MIAA competi­tion of the year at the MIAA Jamboree which will be hosted at Hope College. 
This is the only time the Belles will face all MIAA competition before the MIAA championship in November. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

We're not like every other high-tech company. We're hiring. 
No one told you the hardest part of being an engineer would be finding your first job. Of course, it s still possible to get the high-tech work you want by joining the U.S. Air Force. You can leverage your degree immediately and get hands-on experience with some of the most sophisticated technology on earth. To find out how to get your career off the ground, call 1-800-423-USAF or visit our Web site at airforce.com. 
\.,/
•:• 

U.S. AIR FORCE! 

build. 
join habitat for humanity. 
informational meeting rescheduled for tonight, 
Monday, September 17 8 p.m. @ the Center for Social Concerns 
( or visit www.nd.edu/-habitat to sign up) 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
play right away." 
Braun is also older than most members of the class of 2003 at 22. He entered Notre Dame late due to the length of time Germans spend in school prior to college. 
"The age difference has to do with the school system in Germany," Braun said. "We have 13 grades instead of 12, and afterwards everyone has to give a year of military or civil service. So that usually puts you at 19, 20 or even 21 before you can start college." 
Speed, skill and smarts 
Often considered one of the best forwards in the Big East, Braun is the central leader of the Notre Dame offense. Hindered by a hamstring injury last season Braun only played 13 games but still managed to be the team's second-highest scorer. 
As a freshman, Braun was named Big East Rookie of the Year, becoming the first men's player at Notre Dame to earn one of the league's player of the year awards. 
"Erich is an exceptional goal scor­er," head 
very vocal during the game. He has a lot of heart, and he always plays really hard." 
"When I'm on the field, I'm usually very vocal. and I try to direct people around me to give them help if I can," Forstner said. "They say I keep everyone awake out there. I just want to do what­ever I can for the team." 
In addition to being a vocal leader. Forstner is the strength of the Irish defense. Last year, as a sophomore, he was named Big East Defensive Player of the Week twice and was a major factor in the team's six shutouts. 
Making changes 
Their first year at Notre Dame was the first time either Braun or Forstner had been in the United States for any significant length of time. 
Needless to say, they encountered a few more diffi­culties than the average freshman in adjusting to col­lege life. 
They had to handle the cul­tural changes of an interna­tional student coupled with the grueling schedule of stu­dent-athletes. 
"Coming in as a freshman, it was somewhat difficult to get used to the society differ­ences and language barrier," Braun said. "That first 
c o a c h "Erich has knowledge month or B o b b y two was
beyond what most play­
Clark said. kind of dif­
ers ofhis level have. He ficult, but I
"He has a tremendous uses his vision to play think I have ability to manage.cl
the ball forward and he 
get the ball the change 
sees things most players fairly well." 
in the net. He really don ·t. He plays a much Another has a great aspect of
more sophisticated style 
feel for the change that 
game." ofgame than most the two 
Braun is forwards at this level. ·· encoun­known for tered was his aggres= the differ-
Greg Martin 
sive style of ing atti­
sophomore captain tudes of
play and 
his desire to make something happen on offense. 
"As soon as we go on offense, I want to touch the ball," Braun said. "I just want to get the ball and open up spaces and lay routes for the other guys to create goals." 
Braun's effectiveness on the field comes from his experience and his sharp skills. 
"Erich has knowledge beyond what most players of his level have," Martin said. "He uses his great vision to play the ball forward, and he sees things most college play­ers don't. He plays a much more sophisticated style of game than most forwards at this level." 
Five Star 
Forstner's teammates refer to him as The General. Maybe it's because of his age or maybe it's because of the great knowledge of soccer that he picked up from his years playing with some of the best talent in Germany. 
"With his age, Andy has insight to the game that can only come through a couple of years in competitive play, especially abroad," Martin said. 
But most likely, Forstner's moniker comes from the way he leads his team on the field. 
"Andy is a leader for us on and off the field because he has such excellent leadership qualities," Clark said. "He is 
Americans 
a n d 
Europeans towards their 
sport. 
In Germany it is the soccer matches that attract the capacity crowds, while in the United States the soccer team is lucky to have 1,000 fans in attendance. 
"Back at home, soccer was the sport," Forstner said. "It was soccer and nothing else for us for a long time. It's kind of hard to get used to soccer not being the major sport like football or basket­ball." 
With all the changes they have already met, Braun and Forstner still involved in an ongoing change -the change of Notre Dame's soc­cer program into one of the nation's elite. 
Under first-year head coach Clark, the team is already seeing some successes and some failures. What's impor­tant, however, is the improvement in the level of play and the excitement of the players. · 
"We had a tough season last year as a team," Braun said. "I didn't play so well, the team didn't play so well, and a lot of things went wrong. But we are very excit­ed about this year. Even though we've just come off of two losses, the team stood strong mentally and we are ready to go for this year." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 17, 2001 


Football 
continued from page 24 
. 
like we're just starting now." 
"We needed to get refocused and put things in perspective," said Weaver. 
Because the Irish have an extra week to prepare for Michigan State, Davie has been able to move slower in prac­tice. He began making game preparations 
Saturday, and intends on 
simplifying  the  offense.  
According to  - 
Davie,  


But at least he's worried about his opponent rather than his own team. 
"I feel a little bit of a trans­formation," Davie said. ''I feel what our team's starting to feel like. I feel really good about where we are." 
Notes: 

. Davie said Kurt Vollers will start at guard and Brennan Curtin will start at tackle against Michigan State. 
Sean Milligan, who made his first start against Nebraska but was largely ineffective, has been hampered by an injury 
and will not be starting. 
Michigan 

"We got offto such a poor "We feel
State is the 
this gives us
beginning of start, we forgot what we 
our best 

a whole new were doing and playing chance to 
season for the 

the way we're capable.,, get our best
Irish. 
five linemen
"'We're 
on the field,"
playing our­Bob Davie 
Davie said. 
selves. We got 

head coach . By push­
off to such a 

... poor start, we · forgot what we were doing and playing the way we're capable," he said. "This gave us a chance to spend time on the little things that end up being the big things. That's been our approach -this is the end of training camp." 
The Irish gained more than an extra week off by pushing the Purdue game back to Dec. 
1. 
Instead of playing three of their first four games on the road, the Irish are now playing four or their next five games in Notre Dame Stadium -a change that Davie says makes Notre Dame's tough schedule that much easier. 
Davie is more concerned with Michigan State than the sched­ule, however. Davie has never beaten Michigan State since taking over as head coach. 
ing the 

Purdue game to Dec. 1, Davie said the Irish may have hurt their recruiting efforts. 
Notre Dame scheduled their annual football banquet for Dec. 1, an event that takes place during one of the few available recruiting weekends available for prospective foot­ball players to take official vis­its. In the past, the Irish have always used the football ban­quet as a prime opportunity to showcase Notre Dame football. 
Davie said the Irish would reschedule the banquet for a Dec. 8, but because the event is close to finals, most current Notre Dame players would have to spend time studying rather than helping with recruiting efforts. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

g 
CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY 2001 ENDOWED FALL LECTURE SERIES 
"LORD, TEACH US TO PRAY" 
Sunday, September 23  Laurence Freeman, OSB  
Leaming to Meditate  
Monday, September 24  John Cavadini  

"A Layman Asks "Lord, Teach Me to Pray" 
Tuesday, September 25 Kathleen Dolphin, PBVM 
Does Prayer Make Sense? 
LECTURES BEGIN AT 7:00 P.M. IN STAPLETON LOUNGE, LE MANS HALL 
INFORMATION: (219) 284-4636FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC E-MAIL: mlukasze@saintmarys.edu 
SaintM$sCollegg 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 

Spend winter studying south.of the border 
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT Notre Dame's International Study Program 
IN 
MONTERREY,MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Wednesday, September 19, 2001 
5:00 PM 
217 DeBartolo 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: October 1 for Spring 2002 Dec. 1, 2001 for F'2002, AV 2002-2003 
Read the Observer online. www.nd.edu/-observer 





Monday, September 17, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles return to play, split weekend games 

By MATT MOONEY 
Sports Writer 
Out of action since Sept. 8. because of cancellations stem­ming from the terrorist attack, the Saint Mary's volleyball team returned to the court for a double-header on Saturday. 
The Belles brought home a victory and a loss, defeating Olivet in game one, before falling to St. Francis in game two. 
Following Tuesday's tragedy, the Belles did not play for seven days, doing nothing but practicing. 
"It almost felt like the pre­season again," h~ad coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said about the seven-day layoff. "All we did was practice, prac­tice, practice. With all that happened in New York, it was a psychologically difficult week. \'Ve were shocked." 
With nothing but practice 
for seven days, the Belles had 
to refocus their energy on the 
task at hand. 
"It's tough to get restarted, especially after what hap­pened on Tuesday," senior captain Angela Meyers said. "We just have to keep going and I think we'll still be pre­pared." 
Saint Mary's defeated Olivet in three, 30-17, 30-23, 30-23. The win marked the second Saint Mary's victory this sea­son and raised the Belles record to 2-6 overall and 1-1 in the conference. 
In game two, the Belles did not fair as well. St. Francis defeated Saint Mary's in three, 30-23, 30-23, 30-19. 
Even after Saturday's dou­ble-header, the Belles are still recovering from the time off. Tonight they face off against the Knights of Calvin in a match that promises to be a challenge. But the challenge comes at the riltht time. 

Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

Despite the tragic circum­
stances leading to the post­
ponement, the layoff did help 
a few members of the team get 
healthy. Most notably, senior 
middle blocker Jolie LeBeau 
returns for Monday's game, 
having recovered from a bad 
ankle sprain suffered against 
Albion on Sept. 5. Senior 
Elizabeth Albert also got a 
chance to nurse a strained 
quadriceps. 
"Through the week we kept 
both of them down in prac­
tice," Schroeder-Biek said. 
"Jolie did really well on 
Saturday and wasn't favoring 
her ankle at all." 
Without her, the team stood 
to lose significant experience 
at the position. The only other 
middle blockers on the roster 
are freshmen. 
"We were working on two freshmen, but h would've real­ly slipped our lineup around," Schroeder-Biek said. "The players get used to playing by one another. Having Jolie back definitely helps." 
Even with LeBeau's return, Monday night will still present the Belles with a tough chal­lenge. Last year, Calvin fin­ished second in the MIM, only one game behind conference champion Hope. Nevertheless, Saint Mary's hopes to avenge last year's first round loss in the conference tournament. 
'Tm really looking forward to playing Calvin," Schroeder­Bie k said. "They are a very strong team, but a win would really be a boost our confi­dence." 
ihe match starts tonight at 7 
p.m. at Calvin. 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmoonye@nd.edu. 

Actors From The London Stage 
AMidsummer Night's Dream 

Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $1? Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631 -81 28. 
Like sports? 
Like SMC? 
Write for The Observer. 
Call Katie at 284-5048 

cc..:::....:, . 
Monday, September 17, 200 l

Page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC SOCCER 

Knights speed to victory over Belles, 3-1 

By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Speed was the missing ingredi­ent in Saint Mary's recipe for victory in Saturday's loss to Calvin. Despite scoring a goal early in the first half the Belles lagged behind a quick Calvin team, dropping the game 3-1. 
"[Calvin] had a lot of speed and it was tough for us to catch up on that aspect," senior Jessica Klink said. 
"That's "[Calvin] had a lot of been the story speed and it was tough
all season," 
for us to catch up.,,
said head coach Bobby Johnston. "It's Jessica Klink killing us." 
senior
Early on in 
' Saturday's game, it looked like the Belles may have been on the road to victory. After dropping a close game to Hope on Thursday, Saint Mary's tried to jump out to an early lead Saturday. Junior Victoria Necreto found freshman Shannon Artnak open less than five minutes into the first half, Atrnak managed to sneak the ball past Calvin goalie Kristen Jamieson to take an early Saint Mary's lead. "The fact that we scored first showed how bad we want [a 

win]," Klink said. 
After that first goal, however, Calvin got serious and got back into the game. 
"They completely picked it up," Klink said. "They were get­ting very aggravated ... They came back with all they had." 
The Knights' speed allowed them to outrun Saint Mary's defenders and opened up the goal for them. Calvin had 21 shots on goal, in comparison to Saint Mary's 13. 
"They scored two goals because of sheer speed," Johnston said. 
Belles goalie Maureen MacDonald managed to make 12 

saves, but the ball got by her three times -enough to give the Knights a victory. 
Fifteen minutes after the Saint Mary's scored, Calvin's Larissa Onderlindo found a hole in the Saint Mary's defense and scored off of an assist from Julie Smith, tying up the game at one. 
"Once a girl got through, we didn't have any people to catch her," Klink said. 
A goal from Tricia Dyk put the Knights up 2-1 at halftime -a lead they would not relinquish. 
Although Dyk scored another goal in the second-half to wrap up the 3-1 Calvin victory. a change in strategy allowed the Belles to deal with the Knights' speed more effectively. 
"In the second half we rearranged our system a little," Johnston said. "We were able to negate their speed." 
The Belles moved to a low­pressure defense and focused on cutting the passing lanes and controlling the ball. 
"We played to our strengths," Johnston said. 
Despite the victory. everything was not perfect for the Knights: Head coach Mark Recker was cautioned by Saturday's referee for inappropriate language. After the Belles received a penal­ty kick, Recker, who was upset with calls throughout the game, yelled at the referee, leading to the caution. 
Although his team still does not have a win on its record, Johnston is still proud of the team's efforts. 
'Tm very happy with the way we're playing," Johnston said. "The most frustrating thing is even though we're playing good soccer, we don't have the results on paper." 
The Belles take on Kalamazoo on Wednesday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


THE LSTREET­BK@ 11:53am (C)Yahoo! FORU 36.75 r-r---,----r--~-.---­36.50 An excellent way to learn about~r--­-­-----­36.25 opportunities on Wall Street!!!36.00 35.75 ______..,_.__.,___. Wednesday, September 19, 2001 8-Sep 10am 12pm 2pm 4pm Mendoza College of Business, Jordan Auditorium Students of ALL majors, degrees, colleges, and years •5:00pm -7:00pm Presentations: Domes.tic Asset Allocation Process Global Asset Allocation Process Anatomy ofan Initial Public Offering Mergers & Acquisitions A Public Debt Deal A Highly-Leveraged Private Equity Deal •7:00 ­7:30 Pizza •Sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business •7:30 ­9:00 Individual Company Breakouts and The Career Center  



Monday, September 17, 200 I 
The Observer . TODAY page 26 
RYAN

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
BEMUSED AND BEFUDDLED 
CUNNINGHAM 
THE SAD AND TRAGIC CONSEQUENCES Of "BOOKBAS OVERLOAD" 
FOXTROT 
HI, ANDY,  
HOW'S THE  FINE.  
DAY GOll'•il&?  WHY?  


I J'UST WANT£[) To MAKE 
THE 1<1DS OH, Y£AH. 
MOM, J'ASoN PETER, 

SURE. YOU SEEMED PRETT"I' ARE THEY'RE 
1S LIGHTINu THE QUIET. I'M 

DRu&GED OUT BY THAT 
LEAV1Nu 8E1NG REALLY, 
FENCE ON FIRE. ON THE 

OECoNuESTANT WHEN I 
YOU REALLY <?,ooD, I PHoNE WITH 

LEFT THIS MORNING. 
ALONE? IN FACT. YouR MoTHER. 
\ :;...--::::­
lA=s 
~-)6ooOTO
i HEAR. ~_? 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Saturate 1 Lump 36 Tum in a chair 5 Emeralds and 38 Material for 
diamonds uniforms 9 Kind of, 
40 Dog's ·hand" decongestant 42 Overhead 14 • Croft: 43 Where rods andTomb Raider" cones are(2001 movie) 
45 Boston_
15 On 
Orchestra16 •La Boheme," 47 Young goate.g. 
48 Panache17 Consumer 49 Features of 18 Unaccompanied some women's19 Mail a payment shoes20 Source of 52 Important loan continual info, for short 
suffering 53 Carpet
23 Lamprey_ 
alternative24 Colorant 54 Possible title tor25 Kind of pliers this puzzle 30 Hospital 63 Flip over
capacity 34 Off~road . 64 Run away traveler: Abbr. 65 Inkling 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

.,,......,...,,,....--~-~ 11 Big rig --+-,,,+...+~!!"t-!l!!"'P.!!~ 12 Parched --+...+.,..._....,.,...,,,.....,... 13 Running behind 
"!!!"'t-~!!"'I 21 South Africa's Mandela 22 Looks at ...+...+!!!!+!!!"'I 25 Mother~f-pearl 26 Neighbor of Lucy and Ricky 27 Madonna title role ..,....,....,,,,....,,-4 28 Short snooze ..-,+~~ 29 Cousin of a giraffe 
..,................,...,,...,,,.....!!"'I 30 Baby's tie-on 
_.~...........+!~!!"t-!!"'I 31 Elicit -----------32 Man with horns 
66 LaBelle or LuPone 67 "The Thin Man" dog 
68 Doctor's action to a newbom's bottom 
69 T. S., the poet 
70 Grizzly 

71 Use a keyboard 
DOWN 

1 Market oversaturation 2Whip 3 Popular cookie 4 Like a prison window 5 Classic Italian astronomer 6 Thames school 
7 Pre-stereo 8 Uses money 9 Like Eric the 
Red 

1 O Gorillas and chimps 
NO, BOBBY! JVST 
I.EAVE HER BE. IT'S 
NATURE'S WAY 
... 


I 
. 
i 
l 
j j 
i 
I i 
.I
BILL AMEND 

i 
1 
•
' 
l 
i 
l l 

44 Poisonous snakes 
46 Annually 
50 Like some inexpensive homes 
51 Altruist's opposite 

~J VOLLEYBALL ~ 'fues. vs. V11lp11r11iso @ 7 pm 
* 
Chance to win t-shirts, gift certificates, and Adidas gear!!! 

* 
Serving Contest sponsored by Between the Buns! 


l--• •·•---------------••-----------•-----• --------•--------.., 
.HOROSCOPE 
~c.LhHRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Clint Black, Alice Cooper, Owgyam Trungpa, John Schuck, Pamela Franklin, Lisa Eichhorn, Natalie Imbruglia, Oscar De La Hoya, Gabrielle Anwar 
Happy Birthday: Go after your goals. You have added dis­cipline as well as luck, so don't hold back. It's time to pull out all the stops and go full tilt. You can get the help and support that will enable you to find the suc­cess that you're looking for. This is not the year to take it easy. If you snooze, you'll lose. Your numbers: 15, 18, 27, 34, 39, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
You will have to watch your bud­get closely. Don't buy expensive items from friends or acquain­tances. Channel your thoughts into your job. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It will be hard to contain your feelings. Poor drivers will push you to the limit. Don't take your frustrations out on the ones you love.000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will need to examine your motives. Be sure that you are getting involved in new projects because you believe in them and not because someone else is joining. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
You can express yourself well at group functions. Don't be afraid to promote your beliefs. You will inspire those you talk to. This is the time to take a position of leadership. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be 
57 Aware of 62 VCR insert careful not to ruffle the feathers of the heavyweights at work. This is the time to work hard and 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle make yourself indispensable, not 
are available by touch-tone phone: to push your needs and desires. 
0000
1-900-420-5656 (95t per minute). 
VIRGO (Aug. 2.1-Sept. 22): You 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last SO Birthday Baby: You are quick, inquisitive and independent. You need a creative outlet in order to feel satisfied, such as taking ~s
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
apart and putting them back together. You will always follow that small voice within you even if you know you shouldn't. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Cl 2001 Univimal Press Syndicatl! 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Wall. vs. ,,,,,,,,,,, @ 7 pm 


EUGENIA LAST 
just want to enjoy life. Don't hesi­
tate to join groups or get involved 
in social activities that include 
colleagues. You need to be 
around other people who can 
stimulate your creative imagina­
tion and contribute to your new 
directions.000 
LIBRA (Sepl 23-0ct. 22): You 
won't want to deal with other 
people's problems today, but it 
would be a good idea not to 
refuse. Rewards can be yours if 
you give a little of your time. 
0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Social activities will be a must. 
Combine work with pleasure. Put 
your best foot forward and show 
your worth. There is much you 
can accomplish if you put your 
mind to it. 0000 
SAGITI'ARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Put your efforts into money­making ventures. You can earn recognition at work if you pre­sent your ideas. Be sure to talk to those in higher positions about your goals and directions. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take some time out to do things with children. They need your love and support more than you think. Your ability to work with your hands should be put to good use. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Renovations to your home will be costly but pay off in the long run. Try to enlist the help of friends 

....
and family to keep the overhead 
down.000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't let problems while travel­ing or dealing with relatives cause stress. Your health will suf­fer if you don't relax. Past acquaintances are likely to come back into your life. Assess what they can do for you before you proceed.00 

... 
*S00FREE ~ Wings
Wolfie's 
while they last!! 
* First 500 fans receive an Irish soccer memo. board 
--~------• --------..---..........-..--.... ---..-.... ••---•-~-••...........-• ........ -r,.•• • 

-

Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. SMC Soccer, p. 22 
. NFL, p. 18 
. 
SMC Volleyball, p. 21 . MLB, p. 17 

. 
Ryder Cup, p. 16 

. 
Formula One, p. 14 




Monday, September 17, 2001 
ND MEN'S SOCCER 

,\ 
Germans ~park Irish 
• Germans Braun and Forstner lead Irish on and off the field 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Wricer 

Leadership can come from very unexpected places. For the Irish, it came from across the sea. 
Juniors Erich Braun and Adreas Forstner, both from Germany, lead the Irish both on and off the field. 
Braun provides the offensive catalyst for a team that relies very heavily on its defensive strength. 
"Erich is big-time in holding the ball," sopho­more co-captain Greg Martin said. "It's proba­bly one of the biggest things he does for us because it gives the offense, as well as the rest of the team. time to settle around him." 
While Braun leads the Irish on offense, Forstner takes control on defense. Along with Martin and Griffin Howard, Forstner helps form the core the Irish defense. 
"Andy is a great defender," fifth-year senior Howard said. "He is very vocal on the field for us and he always comes to play." 
Wisdom comes with age 

Braun and Forstner have much more in com­mon than just nationality. They live together and each play important roles on offense and defense. 
Even more, both possess something more important than any skill: age and experience. 
Forstner will turn 24 in February and gained much experience playing against top competi­tion in Germany. 
"I think the age factor has helped us a lot," Forstner said. "It makes it much easier on us to come in as a freshman at 20 or 21, having already played against such talented competi­tion in Germany. Our experience on the field before we came here allowed us to come in and 
see SOCCER/page 19 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles run to third place finish 




By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Ediror 
Saint Mary's ran to a team best this weekend. The Belles finished in third place in the North Park University Invitational, topping six other complete teams in the best fin­ish since head coach Dave Barstis took over the program. 
Although the team was look­
-ing for improvement over last week's race, the runners did not expect to finish as high as third. 

"We've all been working real­ly hard, but I thought it was really cool that we got third place." freshman Kristen Zaininger said. "It was really exciting." 
Despite nursing shin splints, Zaininger managed to bring home the second best time for the Belles, finishing in 26th place ove.rall with a time of 21 minues, 10 seconds. 
"I don't feel that I'm at my top performance, but I'm getting better," she said. 
The Belles, who had been strung out in recent finishes, ran as a pack on Saturday, with results that paid off. Saint Mary's top four runners fin­ished within five places of each other and runner No. 5 finished only 11 places behind lead run­ner, Jackie Bauters. 
"We're trying to stick as a pack becasue that brings the best reults," Zaininger said. "We're learning how to pace ourselves." 
It was a young team that led the Belles to victory on Saturday. Two freshmen, two sophomores and one junior made up Saint Mary's scoring team. Bauters, who finished the race in first place and is a sophomore transfer student from Miami of Ohio, is running in her first season at the colle­giate level. She took a year off while at Miami of Ohio. 
Joining Bauters in placing for the Belles were freshmen Zaininger and Amy Blue, sopho­more Caitlin Gillen, who sat out 
see BELLES/page! 9 
FOOTBALL 
Break helps Irish 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Spores Edicor 

Last week, Bob Davie noticed 
a lack of focus on the part of 
the Irish football team. He wor­
ried if his ~qua~ would be 
ready to play Purdue despite 
the emotional distractions 
caused by Tuesday's terrorist 
attacks. He sensed a different 
atmosphere out on the practice 
field. 
So he dealt with it. 

When he found out the Notre 
Dame-Purdue game was can­
celled, Davie cancelled 
Thursday's practice and orga­
nized a meeting to talk about 
the direction in which the foot­
ball team was heading. He held 
a short walk-through Friday 
afternoon that only lasted an 
hour and a half. 

The results were obvious 
Saturday morning as Davie 
addressed a crowd of reporters 
at about the same time the 
Irish were supposed to take the 
field against the Boilermakers. 
"It's fun to be out there 
coaching and working," he 
said. "I think we have an 
opportunity to take advantage 
of this time. It felt like football 
again out there." 

"We had a great practice," 
co-captain Anthony Weaver 
said. "Everyone was a lot more 
lively out there. It felt like a 
real football practice." 

Weaver wouldn't have been able to say the same a few days ago. A tired, worn out Irish team didn't even know if they would have been able to play football against the Boilermakers. Players were · saying things like "\Ve can focus if we have to" and "We'll 
be prepared if we need to be." 
They just didn't sound entire­
ly confident. 

"From a mental standpoint, if 
we had to play [last] week, I 
think we could have been 
about maxed out. mentally,''" 
said Davie. "We got away from 
it, we got a chance to reestab­
lish and reaffirm some of the 
things we feel strongly about 
with our players and get away 
from the X and O parts. I feel 
see FOOTBALL/page 20 
. SMC Volleyball at Calvin, today, 4 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. NO Volleyball vs. Valparaiso, Tuesday, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 
ontine classifieds 

. Men's Soccer vs. Cleveland State, Wednesday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . SMC Soccer vs. Kalamazoo, Wednesday, 4 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 




