
'I 
'Potter' casts the right spell
RAIN 

Thursday 

Movie critic Meg Ryan praises "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's 
NOVEMBER 29, 

Stone" as a film worthy of the hype surrounding it this holiday season.
HIGH 46° 
Scene . pages 12-13
LOW 41° 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 58 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



'Wings' soars on female empowerment message 
During the scene about rape,By KATIE RAND Almon acted as if she were 
News Writer 
speaking to the man who raped 
her. 

Conia Almon and D'Ebrar "Your face is burned in my Chapmyn, actors from Chapymn memory, I will never forget you, I Spoken \,Vord, performed the will teach my daughters how to play "Womyn With Wings" avoid you and I will teach me Wednesday night at Saint Mary's. sons how not to be you," Almon The women performed skits and said. songs, intertwined to create a She then sang, in her deep play about empowering women soulful voice, "I am changing, in today's society. with each day I am growing, for I 
The play began with Almon know that· inside me there is portraying a young peace." girl and Chapmyn The play includ­
"My arms still have 
proclaiming that ed a scene about a "little girls are only his handprints all woman suffering pretty, · never over them -along through breast 
smart." cancer after her
with my body, he
The two women mother dealt with then danced about took my dignity, the same tragedy. the stage imitating and my love." "They cut off the dances of dif­part of me, ferent cultures, changed me, but I 
D'Ebrar Chapmyn 
saying that "when survived," said the dance is over spoken word actor Chapmyn. you will be The production changed, you will also included a be different, new, and when the more lighthearted skit about get­dance is over you will rise up ting rid of the baggage in life, fol­with the wings of eagles and fly." lowed by one about a grand­
The play raised awareness mother who packed up one day about important female issues and decided to travel the world. such as genital mutilation; abu­"You're never too old to go live sive relationships and rape. One your dreams," said Almon. piece spoke of fem ale mutilation The women sang "This Little in Africa, in which many women Light of Mine" and performed a are cut, circumcised or brutal­piece about two elderly women in ized in other ways. a hospital reminiscing about the 
The play also featured a scene old days in their church's about a woman who killed her women's group. The women husband after he routinely beat ·relive how a man came in and her. attempted to rob the group, forc­
"My arms still have his hand­ing one of the women to stop him prints all over them -along with with the gun her husband left my body, he took my dignity and my love," Chapmyn said. see WINGS/page 4 



Actors Conia Almon and D'Ebrar Chapmyn, ofChapmyn Spoken Word, dance and sing in skits Wednesday at Saint Man;'s in a performance of the play "Womyn with Wings." The play, which features skits about such issues as rape and female mutilation in Africa, is aimed at empowering women in modern-day society. 
. 


photos by 
MEGHAN LAFFERTY 
STUDENT SENATE 
' 

Campus water quality concerns some members 

By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
Upon hearing fellow students express con­cern over the quality of the University's water, the Student Senate decided to look into the issue. 
Based on his research, Morrissey senator Padraic McDermott presented information to the Senate at its meeting Wednesday night. 
"A lot of people in Morrissey and around campus have been complaining about water quality -foul smells, bad tastes," McDermott said. 
However, McDermott explained that he learned that the water in the area is just natu­rally hard. 
"It's really safe," he said. "We've just got some of the hardest water in the country." This problem is particularly pronounced in old dorms, which have iron pipes. 
"The University is addressing water quality issues, but it requires new pipes," McDermott added. In older dorms with iron pipes, that means waiting until dorms are renovated to replace pipes. 
Also during the Senate's meeting Wednesday night, student body vice president Brian Moscona suggested that the Senate look into holding its meetings in a different residence hall each week. He said it would be another way to reach out to the student body. 
"We've been trying to get people to come speak on podium and get more interested in Senate, but that hasn't been too successful," Moscona said. He added that going directly to where students live might increase student involvement. 
However, some senators expressed concern about logistical arrangements for moving meetings out of the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. One senator questioned whether all dorms had enough space to host a meeting with 28 senators. 
"I think it's great that we're trying to reach out to students, but I'm wondering about accommodations in some of the dorms," said 
see SENATE/page 4 

L_ 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, November 29, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 


·Don't let up on tailgate pressure 
So the tailgate talk on campus has died down a bit since home football season ended. Well. I for one. don't plan on letting it go that easily. 
The administration has yet to issue a state­ment on their new policy. and they will contin­ue to act in the same man­ner as if they don't think 
they're doing anything wrong. 
ND and South Bend Police continued their ticket writ­ing at the last home game against Navy, a parents' weekend. during a weekend that is supposed to be of 

family reunions and get­
Matt Lutz
togethers. Would it really hurt Notre Dame to set up a parents' lot for tailgates'? 
A dr;ertising 
After all. they do pay an enormous amount of money Executive for us to go here. And that money is used to pay the salaries of the same administrators turning around and punishing us and even threatening our parents. 
I have another idea! Instead of the whole "Parents Lot for Tailgating," how about every­one on campus that doesn't have a fake ID gets one and then we can all head out to the bars on Saturday mornings'? Then we can all get in cars and drive back to campus! \Vhat a great idea! 
Wait, here's another idea. (Maybe a bit more feasible, too.) If everyone simply takes two minutes out of their day, right now, and writes ResLife (305 Main Building, for those of you that haven't had to send them anything yet) a love letter about how you. yes you. feel about the tailgating issue. We can write letters with­out getting a citation. right? 
Some people may get the impression that I don't respect the authority of the police because of this article. But, I grew up respect­ing those that risk their lives for the public; those who fight in wars; those who arrest mur­derers or criminals. But my respect for those who, in general, looking to get people in trou­ble isn't so high. 
Let me give you a "For Instance." You're at a family tailgate drinking out of a red cup. Notice I didn't say if there was alcohol in said red cup. Are you breaking the law'? YES! This for instance happened, and the said person was issued a ticket and court date. This person actually doesn't attend the University. Best yet, this same person received a letter from the University of Notre Dame banning ANY future involvement with Notre Dame. 
Banning someone that doesn't go here? How on earth is HesLife going to enforce that? What happens if they're "caught" on campus again? Is ResLife going to send a second letter in bold letters saying "We're Heally Serious This Time!" on it'? 
I would just like to say thank you to all the wonderful undercover policeman on duty this football season for a job well done! The next chance I get, I'll come to your house and watch you without you knowing•Tm there and write you a citation the next time you take a sip out of a red cup. 
I want another tailgate forum RIGHT NOW. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS. 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Tiu: Observer (l!Sl'S 5-99 2-4000) is published Mond,1y rhrough Frid,1y ex1:ep1 during ex.1111 ,1nd v,K,uion periods. The Observer is J member of rhe Associ.ued Press. All reproducrion riglm ,He r<"served. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Lecture: "Causality and  . Dinner: "The 29th  . Play: "Antigone" by  
Normativity," Joseph  Annual Madrigal Dinner,"  Mainstage Season  

Rouse. Hayes-Healy room  Saint Mary's Department  
127, 4:15 p.m.  of Music. Hegina Hall, 7  
. Conference: "A Culture  p.m.  
of Life," McKenna Hall, All  . Concert: "Abend- 
Day.  Musique," Moreau  
Seminary Chapel, 8 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 


Iowa State backs antrhax sample destruction 
AMES. Iowa 
More than a month after the anthrax samples at Iowa State University were destroyed. veteri­nary medicine officials remain confi­dent about their decision. 
The Veterinary Medicine Labs at Iowa State destroyed its entire col­lection of anthrax samples Oct. 11­12 in response to bioterrorism scares and security concerns. The decision was made following a false connection of Iowa labs to the anthrax outbreaks in Florida and the posting of guards at vet med labs. 
"On Oct. 9, a media report out of Florida stated that the anthrax that killed a man in Florida was stolen from a lab in Iowa," said James Hoth, professor of veterinary micro-
UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 
Officials: Student ineligible for post 
OMAHA. Neb. 

The recent discovery of a past felony conviction likely will prevent University of Nebraska-Omaha stu­dent body President~elect Damien Coran from taking office. A 1997 federal felony conviction recently was brought to the attention of UNO officials, who previ­ously had declared Coran eligible to serve. Coran's ineligibility to serve is mandated by the Nebraska state constitution, which declares in Article 15, Section 2, that "no person convicted of a felony shall be eligible to any such office unless he shall have been restored to civil rights." Hichard Wood. attorney for NU. said although officials were "still reviewing the law," it "appears now that rcoran] ·is not eligible to serve as a student regent." Coran's criminal histo­ry first was brought to the attention of university offi­cials in an article published last month in The Gateway. which ran r.riminal background checks on each of the candidates in last month's student body president/regent election. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend l•orecast 
AccuWeather'~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
! 



Tuesd~y
',, 
>
,•,/ 

4,~,QqQQ (f ~ ~ 
Showers T•storms Rain Fl;,;,es ~o; Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
V,a Assoc,ated Press Graph,csNet 

biology and preventative medicine. 
Roth said the FBI reported the conection was false several days later. However. Gov. Tom Vilsack already had responded to the situa­tion by posting guards .at the U.S. Department of Agriculture National .Theatre, Washington Hall, 

7:30 p.m. 

. Karaoke: Huddle, LaFortune Student Center, 10 p.m. 
COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY 

Lecturers worry about job security 
DAVIS. Calif. 

University of California-Davis lecturers already must reapply for their positions every year and would lose what little job security they have if the university is con­sidering replacing them with cheaper, temporary employees. Until recently, non-senate faculty in the College of Letters and Science were granted one-year contraGts for six years before being considered for a three-year contract. However, Elizabeth Langland, dean of the humanities, arts and cultural studies division of the College of Letters and Science, informed lecturers earlier that no more three-year contracts would be granted, effectively dismissing lecturers who had ,worked at the university for six years. This decision was postponed when university otlicials decided to keep the affected lec­turers for at least one more year. According to UCD English department lecturer Michelle Squitieri, the loss of experienced lecturers would hurt UCD academics, especially if their replacements are hired temporarily and not oflered eventual three-year contracts. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Thursday, Nov. 29, 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

....,.......... ........... 

el 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. cow WARM STATIONARY 
f1r-f1Nur.: 

®© ...... 
High Low Vl.9 A.Q:(:!Cllttlfd Prns  Showers  Rain  T-otonr,&  F!urrlea  Snow  Ice  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  71 64 42 45 46  53 55 41 39 39  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  53 40 52 42 43 38 54. 52 65 56  

Veterinary Services Laboratory and the Veterinary Medicine Labs in Ames. Guards also were posted at the University of Iowa Hygienic Lab. 
"The Iowa Highway Patrol stood guard outside of our laboratory 24 hours a day because IVilsack) want­ed to make sure that no orrn could come in and tak,~ any of' our anthrax samples," Hoth said. "They stayed until we destroyed the samplr.s." 
The decision to destroy vet med's collection of anthrax cultures was made by Vet Med Dean Norman Cheville, Associate Dean Don Reynolds and Hoth. 
Vet med personnel asked the state department of environmental health to contact the FBI and Centers for Disease Control about the n~levance of their samples, Cheville said. 
Sunday 
. Play: "Christopher's Christmas," Patchwork Dance Company, ,. O'Laughlin Auditorium, 2 p.m. 
Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Portland  46  39  
Sacramento  56  38  
St. Louis  47  40  
Tampa  82  63  
Washington DC 66  58  


Thursday, November 29, 2001 page 3
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

ANSWER :-;;t;-. fflECALL '<!':/ 
w-ww.nd.edu/----vocation 
Former GE chief to speak at University 
Special to The Observer 

Jack \Nelch, one of America's most respected business liiaders and the recently retired chair­man of the board and chief cxec­u tive officer of General Electric Company, will speak at Notre Dame at 5 p.m. Tuesday in Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
Because the seating capacity of the auditorium is limited, those wishing to attend the lecture are encouraged to arrive early. For those unable tq find seating in the auditorium, the speech will be broadcast simultaneously in 101 Debartolo Hall and in desig­nated classrooms within the Mendoza College of Business. 
Following the speech, Welch will sign copies of his best-selling autobiography, "Jack, Straight From The Gut," in the atrium of the college. 
Welch, GE's chair and CEO from 1981-2001, increased the company's market value from $16 billion to more than $280 billion during his tenure. He con­solidated 150 business units into 12 basic businesses in an infor­mal, "boundaryless" organiza­tion to meet his goal of creating "a big company body and a small company soul." 
Under \Velch, GE spent mon~ than $20 billion on new acquisi­tions, including Ow NBC televi­sion network and the Kidder Peabody & Co. brokerage firm, and sold any business that did not rank first or second in its field. 
For four consecutive years GE was named "Most Admired Company in America" by Fortune magazine and "Most Admired Company in the World" by Financial Times. 
In September, Welch published his autobiography. "Jack, Straight From The Gut," which quickly became a New York Times No. 1 best seller. 
Born into an Irish-Catholic family in Salem, Mass., in 1936, Welch received his bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from the University of Massachusetts and his master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Illinois. He was awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame in 1994. 

Visit The Observer Online.· http://wvrw.nd.edu/-observer 

Graduate Arabitz> MEAR 501/503 
Directed Readings ... · 
(with permission) ··••··••····.···· 
MEAR 497 

Literature and Civilization / 
.. 
Revelation to Revolution:··•Jews, Gli'2i ··• ·. · · · ••r ristotle, .Plato, or Muslims up to 1000 AD.. . . . ··• ··. <..•........ / 
.
-... MELC 242 (Crosslist: HIST 242, MRI.If >
1cero. .· .. 
. .· -:: . ·. :· . 

><·•••... >>.··· r··•······ ··•.···•·· t10s<Jph•···.•.•··•· · ntro... to Islamic Civ· ·•·.· tion> in · > 
-:.;.:::-:.: •..: ..:-·-·.-:.•.· ·.····.· ·.·.·.· > •.·• ·•·. < •.. ·.·• . . ...•·>•.... ... . <••• .•··· >? < : : •( 
['!ii \) i'lliillB:ll 

page 4 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 29, 2001 
Wings 
continued from page 1 
when he died. 
After the performance, Chapmyn said that this was her favorite piece thus far since it is about staying strong and not let­ting a tough event in life bring you dO\vn. 
Almon and Chapmyn also sang a prayer to the blessed mother, and changed the words to "Though I walk through the val­ley of the shadow of death" to include new lyrics. "I will fear no evil, but I will sleep with the alarm set," and "If I lay down in your green pastures I will have a Doberman with me." 
The play featured "I am a bor­ing story," a skit about women on welfare. 
Almons said this skit is her favorite as she can identify with it. She used to look down on sin­gle mothers on welfare until one day she found herself needing public assistance. 
Women should not be afraid to admit when they need help, since "America was built on the foun­dation that. if we need help we can ask our neighbor," said Almon. 
The play ended with a skit 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
Pasquerilla East senator Nikki McCord. 
Moscona told senators that he would look into his idea further and give them more information atthe next Senate meeting. 
In other Senate news: 
. 
Jennifer Wolfe of the Financial Management Board presented Courtney Schuster to the Senate as the FMB's choice to coordinate The Shirt project. The Senate will vote on the nomination at its meeting next week. 

. 
Jonathan Jorissen, chief of staff in the office of the student body president, announced that the office has decided on the topics of its next two Board of Trustees reports. For the winter report, Jorissen said his office would like to discuss the Office of Information Technologies and possible improvements to it. The 



)["]) -Si,Jrnl C:liamber ':"Jll11.sic ]cecilal 
.f"Ju.i,, (j,~/,.J, ,••1 './(,.1,.y,,J,,.J. 51.J,,,;, •• I/~ ('r...J-//{,,..,, (1k"·' 

.5aL,,,,/ay. ·DMm&.r I, ·.wm ~;{){} pm. .s:[nnr,,,&.,!J s.Llfli{,.,.;,,,,. J:,,.., w..J Open I,, ffw .Jl,JJ.ic· 

Smi11L1te~ 
{ro,n CIUTPDST Ca,npits ~ 
Cold Weather Experts 

CaU 259-1000 for more details 
wondering who women are. 
JUMP TO IT!
"I looked inside me, and now I know how much I don't know," said Almon. 
Chapmyn's character respond­ed positively, assuring her that she could be whatever she want­ed to be. She sang, "I am a strong woman." 
"This play is not about bashing or belittling men," Chapmyn said. "It is about validating and empowering women." 
Chapmyn Spoken Word was founded by James Chapmyn, D'Ebrar's brother. Almon joined the company in 1988, and she and Chapmyn have performed together since 1994. The pro­duction alters each year, with different actresses taking the roles of the two women. While the actors change, much of the content remains the same. However, skits are added or removed due to current issues in society and issues that the writer sees women dealing with. 
Womyn With Wings was spon­sored by Student Diversity Board, Student Affairs, Leaders of a New Indiana, Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership, Office of Multicultural Affairs and the Board of Governance. 
Cont.act Katie Rand at rand8903@saintmarys.edu 
office of the president plans to address the status of women at Notre Dame in its spring report, marking the 30th anniversary of women being admitted to the University. 
Cont.act Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu 

The ND Department of Music Presents 
ND Collegium Musicum 
directed by Daniel Stowe 
Performing works by Isaac 'd? Josquin des Prez 
Friday, Nov. 30, 2001 
8:00 pm, Moreau Seminary Chapel Free and open to the public (219) 631-6201 for information 
11 AS You Vlish'' \.Qt·,,.,.

IMpof'lTS ·-·J ­
LOADS OF SILVER & BEADED JEWELRY . ·"" . ..,_ SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS . \. TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPREADS AND MUCH MUCH MORE ... 
PURSES, WALLETS, CHANGE PURSES, INCENSE SARONGS 
DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTS! 
Guatemala • Bolivia • Peru • Thailand • !v1exico • India 
Proceeds from sales of jewelry gaurantee the loving hands of Guatemalan families 3 times their average salary, as well as funds for their education. 
LaFortune Room 108 (Near Telephones) Nov. 26 -Dec. 1 (Sat, 10 to 5 m 
Tired of weak parties and South Bend Bars? 
Xmas Bash 2001 
$10 Cover 

ALL YOU CAN DRINK! 
Chicago Rave! Full Wet Bar! Kegs! Dancing! This Friday Nov. 30th Only 10pm -??? 
The Former Laser Storm on US 23, Next to Coach's 
must be 21 or older with valid ID to enter 

ATI 

Thursday, November, 29, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
War on terror enters 2nd phase: 
The war on terrorism will enter a "deliberative and considered" new phase that will take it beyond the current campaign in Afghanistan, Prime Minister Tony Blair said \Vednesday. Blair was rPsponding to a lawmaker who asked him to rule out military action by the U.S.-led coalition against other countries such as Yemen, Somalia or Iraq. 
Pope condemns embryo cloning: 
Pope John Paul II, emphasizing the Vatican's condemnation of human embryo cloning, on Wcclncsclay criticized scientific experiments that thnrnten the dignity of a human life. The pontiff urged doctors attfmding his weekly public audience to "defend without compro­mise lifo and the dignity of' people, operating with respect to moral law." 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Storms strike Plains and Midwest: 
Motorists slid on icn-coated highways in Texas and Oklahoma on Wednesday and homeless she!U•rs had trouble keeping up with demand for \Vann clothing as the southern Plains got its first snovvstorm of the season. The storm was · blanwd for hundreds of traflic accidents, with orw fatality in Oklahoma. One clay earlier, the upper Midwest was surprised by a separate storm that produced up to 29 inches of snow and was blamed for five deaths. 
Arsenal found in Maine home: 
Sheriffs deputies found a cache of weapons, including machine guns and bazookas, in a booby-trapped basement when they went to serve a restraining order at an upscale home in Balclvvin, a rural Maine town. Authorities on WNhrnsday continued to search for the man who lived there, 4:1-year-old \'Villiam Bloomquist. They said they did not know what he intended to do with the weapons. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Obscenity trial jurors view sex tapes: 
The sounds of heavy breathing, moaning and background music tilh~d a courtroom as jurors began \Vatching 11 hours of sexually explicit tapes in an adult bookstore owner's obscenity trial. St. Joseph Circuit Court Judge Terry Crone has said the videotapes must be viewed from opening to closing credits for jurors to decide whether the material meets the legal definition of obscenity. Hobert Henderson, 56, owner of the Little Denmark bookstore in South Bend, faces snven counts of distributing obscene mate­rials and two felony counts of racketeering. 
Market Watch November 28 
Dow 9,711.86 -160.74 
]~ Same: 
Composite Vo)un1e:
~ 178 I ,390,242,944 
AMEX: 803.99 -4.17 
NASDAQ: 1,887.97 -48.00 
NYSE: 575.20 -9.38 
S&P 500: 1,128.52 -20.98 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
ENRON CORP (ENE) -85.15 -3.50 0.61 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -3.61 -1. 45 38.75 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -2.30 -0.31 13 .16 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.70 -0.55 31. 76 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) ·_4 .15 -0.82 18.88 

Afghanistan since U.S. near the southern city of ship fails. For now the 
Associated Press 
bombing began Oct. 7. Kandahar. Pentagon is content to 
WASHINGTON U.S. military personnel More Marines and equip­seek intelligence from 
Infantry from the Army's also are surveying airfields ment arrived at the base local Afghans on the ene­l 0th Mountain Division near Mazar-e-Sharif and Wednesday, bringing the my's whereabouts and to have crossed from Bagram, north of the number to between 750 bomb the caves, tunnels Uzbekistan into northern Afghan capital, in anticipa­and 800, Pentagon spokes­and other facilities in Afghanistan to serve as a tion of using them to woman Victoria Clarke which they might be hid­quick-reaction force in expand the delivery of said. The Pentagon has ing. case of renewed Taliban humanitarian relief sup­said that number may Defense Secretary resistance around the city plies, officials said. increase to about 1,100 Donald Rumsfeld alluded of Mazar-e-Sharif, officials Several hundred Army Marines, whose purpose is to the possibility of' more said \Vednesday. and Air Force special to deny southern escape ground forces Tuesday 
The rapid-reaction force operations forces have routes for Taliban and al­when he visited the hcad­apparently was not in the been inside Afghanistan Qaida fighters. q uarters of U.S. Central area when Taliban prison­for weeks, working in The Marines are the only Command, which is man­ers staged a bloody prison small teams linked with substantial U.S. ground aging the war effort. "Our revolt Sunday. The CIA opposition forces in north­force in Afghanistan, efforts, of course, will be confirmed Wednesday that ern and southern parts of although the Pentagon has shifting from cities at some one of its officers, Johnny the country. not ruled out eventually point to hunting down and "Mike" Spann of Winfield, The only other U.S. putting more Army troops rooting out terrorists Ala., was killed in the riot. ground troops known to be there if the current where they hide," he said. I le was the first American in Afghanistan are approach to rooting out al­"This is difficult work. It's known to be killed in Marines setting up a base Qaida and Taliban leader-dangerous work." 
Egypt denounces U.S. force on Iraq 
in the Arab world and in the United Bush deflected questions about
Associated Press 
States itself. whether Iraq would be next in the WASHINGTON Maher was in Washington for meet­U.S. -led fight against terrorism. 
Egypt urged the United States on ings on Thursday with Secretary of "First things first," the president Wednesday not to use military force State Colin Powell and members of said. against Iraq or any other Arab coun­Congress. Ile said President Hosni On Wednesday, Secretary of State try in its campaign against terrorism. Mubarak had &ent him to register Colin Powell said he would advise 
Foreign Minister Ahmed Maher Egypt's solidarity with the United people in the Middle East "to listen said any punishment for defying the States against terrorism. carefully to what the President said. United Nations and not permitting "While Afghanistan may require "The President said the Iraqi regime the inspection of suspect weapons the use of force, it should not become should allow the U.N. inspectors back sites should be meted out in other the rule," Maher said in a question­in to complete their very, very impor­ways. and-answer session at the Brookings tant work," Powell told reporters. 
Iraq should respect U .N. resolu­Institution, a private research group. Officials within the administration tions, but the resolutions do not President Bush on Monday told are in the midst of a debate over authorize a military attack as punish­Iraqi President Saddam llussein to whether to take military action ment, t}w Egyptian minister said. allow U.N. weapons inspectors back against Iraq. Powell is generally con­And using force against Iraq, he and warned "he'll find out" the con­sidered to be less hawkish than some 
said. '\vould have a negative impact" sequf:-'nces if he does not yield. senior Pentagon officials. 
all the buffalo wings you can 

... for only 40 

($2.00) 


Class of 2003 Dinner at BW3's 
~ 


thursday, november 29 7 -9 pm · S2 = all-you-can-eat wings 
BW-3 Buffalo Wild Wings 123 W. Washington Street South. Bend, IN Call 232-2293 for directions 
sponsored by the class of 2003 

, .I-, 

, .. ... 
, , 

. ' 

Thursday, November 29, 2001 page 7 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Budget chief predicts federal deficits likely until 2005 
Mitchell Daniels was one of the sion that we are unlikely to most forecasters were envision­would with stronger growth. 
Associated Press 
gloomiest assessments yet of the return to balance in the federal ing an ever-growing string of "This has profound effects, 

government's fiscal health. And
WASHINGTON 

it was the first time an adminis­The recession and the costs of 
tration official has publicly
war and battling terrorism have acknowledged that deficits ­made annual federal deficits banished since surpluses first
likely for at least the next three years, the White House budget appeared in 1998 -are likely director said Wednesday. now for several years. 
The prediction by budget chief "It is regrettably my conclu­

.. /A¦fl;:9:,#~i:a/i

.Att~you-ca,,!,)111 "' ·.···· Bu,ffet ;*Pizza 
11Pasta ;*Salad 

accounts before possibly fiscal budget surpluses for the next 2005," Daniels said in a speech decade, fading as the huge baby at the boom gener­National ation begins Press Club. "This has profound to retire. Last spring,
He added, effects, when compounded 
official sur­
"Things will 
out over time. on the plus projec­
have to break 
amount ofmoney that we tions for the
right for us to 
coming
do that." can expect to have 
decade
Daniels' 
available in the 

totaled $5.6
comments 
federal treasury. " trillion.

further 
As recently
underlined 
as August,
what has 
Mitchell Daniels 

the Bushbeen a turn­budget chief administra­
around in the tion was pre­government's 
dicting abudget pic­2002 surplus of $173 billion,
ture of unprecedented abrupt­down from its $231 billion fore­
ness. 
cast made in April. 

The record $237 billion sur­But then the recession -nowplus of fiscal 2000 shrank to a officially pegged as having start­$127 billion surplus in fiscal ed last March -took hold, and2001, which ended •On Oct. 1. 
the condition of the govern­
Though Daniels provided no fig­ment's books began to weaken. 
ures, private analysts and many 
In addition, President Bush
congressional aides have long pushed a $1.35 trillion, 10-year expected a 2002 deficit that will tax cut through Congress, fur­be well into the tens of billions ther eroding the projected black of dollars. 
ink.

Until several months ago. 
Another severe blow was dealt by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, which staggered the economy and triggered tens of billions in spending for anti-ter­rorism, the war in Afghanistan and economic recovery. 
Daniels acknowledged that as a result, the administration would lower its long-term growth estimates, which means the government would expect to collect less revenue than it 

when compounded out over 
time, on the amount of money 
that we can expect to have 
available in the federal trea­
sury," Daniels said. 
To try to force a return to sur­pluses, Daniels said the admin­istration would propose a fiscal 2003 budget early next year that is generous toward defense, anti-terrorism and other high-priority programs, but seeks to trim other pro­grams that seem less necessary. 
He cited the National Science 
Foundation and food aid for 
women, infants and children as 
important and effective pro­
grams. He said the government 
has too many job-training pro­
grams and seemed to suggest 
that border protection pro­
grams could be made more effi­
cient. 
He also said the budget would propose. taking some automati­cally paid benefits and changing their status so they must be approved annually by Congress or the money would not be spent. 
Daniels provided no exam­ples, but such a proposal would be likely to face tough going from lawmakers eager to pro­tect constituencies who current­ly received such aid. Two-thirds of the $2 trillion annual federal budget -including Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, welfare, farm aid -are cur­rently for programs in which benefits are paid automatically, without annual congressional approval. 

BRING YOUR COLLEGE ID -MUST BE 21 222 S. MICHIGAN:: SOUTH BEND:: 219.234.5200 :: HEARTLANDSOUTHBENO.COM 
CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERT & EVENT LINE 219-251-2568 
page 8 Thursday, November 29, 200 l • 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Noue Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smirh  Par Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SroRTS EDITOR: Noah Amscadrer SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX......................................................... ....631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME.................... 631-454I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEws..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT.......... ,......................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS......... . , .............................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu SCENE..................................... ....................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S ........................................ .....631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO... , .... , ...............................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .... , .. ,.... .....631-88,39 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire ac http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, foamres and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from che Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
weekly student reviews 

minute forecasts 
online features for spe­

advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 

and rates ofprint ads 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
co meet rhe editors and 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College, Editorial contenc, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content, 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials rtpresenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief~ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing E<liror and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present che views of che authors and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space_is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questions regarding ObJen;erpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 

"When the death of a disabled infant will lead to the birth of another infant with better prospects of a happy life, the total amount of happiness will be greater if the disabled infant is killed.... 
Therefore, if Christine Niles killing the hemo­philiac infant has no adverse effects on others, As I See It ... 
it would, accord­ing to the total view, be right to kill him. The main point is clear: killing a disabled infant is not morally equivalent to killing a person. Very often it is not wrong at all." 
A sixth grade class at Benjamin Franklin School in Teaneck, New Jersey was asked to comment on this statement in three paragraphs. The statement can be attributed to the illustrious Peter Singer, professor of bioethics at Princeton University's Center for Human Values. 
Not only has this detritus infiltrated one of our nation's universities, it has found its way into the hands of public school teachers. Isn't it nice to know, parents, that your children are being taught by such progressive-minded, forward-thinking individuals? 
Singer proposes that people who are not fully conscious have less of a claim to life than those capable of rational, self-conscious thought. On Singer's scale of human worth, dis­abled infants and adults come in last. 
In fact in his book "Should the Baby Live," he would give parents the option of killing disabled newborns within 28 days of birth. lie also advo­cates ending the lives of spina bifida babies, allowing parents the option of' "replacing" their disabled children with healthy, fully functional new­borns. 
As justification for this utilitarian stance, Singer argues that the dis­abled have less fulfilling lives than normal people and should therefore be refused the right to live by those who know better. 
He claims the motivation to see less suffering in the world and takes it as fundamental that the handicapped love life less than the rest of us, despite the large number of disabled people who find his views repugnant and affirm the dignity of their own lives. If the facts work against you, denial always does the trick. 
While Princeton faculty considered Singer's appointment, the group Princeton Students Against Infanticide published an open statement protest­ing his hiring. National as well as · international organizations for dis­ability rights also wrote in to object. 
The university virtually ignored them, Harold Shapiro, president of Princeton, defended the school's choice by listing the degrees and awards proving Singer must, after all, have something important to say. 
In addition, philosophy professors like Peter Unger of New York University backed up Singer's reputa­tion by calling him "one of the most influential ethicists alive." This state­ment, of course, says exactly nothing. 
Hitler was influential, too; his influ­ence was felt by about 11 million peo­ple. Shapiro praised Singer's dedica­tion to the reduction of suffering in the world through population control, as well as Singer's own belief that the most gratifying kind of life is the self­less one -don't forget the non-dis­abled one, too. 
Singer has also found favor in the eyes of another of our elite schools, Yale University, which sponsored him in its annual Dwight Terry Lectures in Fall of 2000. Why these schools are 

attracted to him I cannot say. 
But it is clear that his is a more insidious type of evil than that of the common murderer. At least one can point at the man who kills from greed and say he acted wrongly. 
But Singer's teaching is cloaked in the garb of enlightened benevolence, endorsed by academics who pass the torch on to young impressionable minds to acc(~pt with equanimity the sanction of infanticide. 
If, through some accident, Singer himsr.lf werr. to become mentally crip­pled and unable to communicate, would he accept the termination of his life at the hands of his betters'? Singer, assuming he would lose all desire to live, would probably say yes. 
But what if it turned out that he numbered among the millions of dis­abled who do in fact lovr their lives as fiercely as the rest of us? One thing is evident: Singer d<ws not speak for them. 
There is something to the statement, made by one modern thinker, that it would be better to be governed by tlrn first 200 names in the Boston phonfl­book than by all the faculty at Harvard and Yale. Let me also add, Princeton. 
Our <~lite academics are so enlight­ened they make laymen look like cretins, with our outdated notions that human dignity is unique among cre­ation, and our ideas that each life, no matter the physical or intellectual endowments, bears the same innate worth -and claim to life ~ as the next. 
Christine Niles is a student at the Notre Dame Law 5,'chool. Iler colunzn appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those <~{ the author and not neces­sarily those of The Obseruer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Jason McFarley Andrew Thagard Meghanne Downes 
Sports 
Katie McVoy 
Viewpoint 
Teresa Fralish 
Scene 
Matt Nania 
Graphics 
Kristin Krouse 
Production 
Lauren Dasso 
Lab Tech 
Ernesto Lacayo 

OBSERVER/NDT0DAY.C0M POLL QUESTION 
Given Bob Davie's statement that he will resign ''under zero circumstances" do you think we will have a new coach next year? 
Vote at NDToday.com by 5 p.m today. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"How can there be too many children? That is like saying there are too many flowers." 
Mother Teresa Catholic sister 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, November 29, 200 I page 9 
Update: the sophomore effort 
Someone on this campus wants to sex me up. More on that later. First I'd like to thank those who took the time to reply to my last column about sex. I appreciate the feedback, supporters and detractors alike, because r believe that even those who disagree Joe Muto with me are enti­tled to their com­pletely wrong opin­Livin, on a ions. Prayer 
The column had morn an impact than I'd anticipated. In the course of two days I went from a complete unknown to a smni-unknown being stalked by venge­ful band members. 
Actually, people did seem to know who I was all of a sudden. I was confronted by pt~ople in my classes whom I had never talked to randomly turning to me with comments like "39 seconds, ehh?" and "You don't really think Jesus was gay, do you?" 
My favorite fans of course, were the females, many of whom now look at me with a mix of curiosity and nwulsion. A typical conversation would go like this: 
Girl: llcy. great column. Me: [feigning humbleness] Oh, you read it'? Girl: Yeah. I loved it! I told all my friends that I know you, and they want to 
meet you now! Me: [switching to scary/aroused voice! Just send them to my room. Girl: [Backs away slowly, maintaining eye contact so as not to startle me] 
One interlude actually did go well. The aforementioned person who wants to sex me up decided to notify me of this fact a few days after the column came out. 
The e-mail entitled "sex is good" didn't immediately catch my attention. I merely assumed that it was one of the dozen or so hardcore-pornography-via-e-mail ser­vices that I subscribe to for "laughs". 
However, this e-mail appeared to come from on-campus. The first half read like your standard-issue fan e-mail. It quickly became apparent, however, that this was anything but standard. 
The sentence that caught my attention is quoted exactly as follows: ''I've come to the conclusion that I must be the horniest person on this campus." So far so good. 
But nothing could have prepared me for what came next: "If we were to meet and I was attracted to you, I would certainly have sex with you." Suddenly my adoles• cence 11ashed before my eyes. 
I awoke on the floor 10 minutes later in a cold sweat. l was still smarting from the painful years between grades two and seven. All the bee-stings, nose bleeds and dropped passes in schoolyard football had added up. 
Getting back into my desk chair, I real­ized that it was decision time. After a quick check in the appropriate Dogbook, I discovered with relief that it was indeed a female student who had written the e­mail, and not the middle-aged, morbidly obese male I had immediately pictured. 
I had the very real prospect ofsemi­anonymous, totally meaningless sex in front of me. I could feel a long succession of men urging me not to pass up the opportunity. Hugh Hefner, Wilt Chamberlain, Cassanova and for some reason Abraham Lincoln all appeared before me and told me to go for it. 
At the same time I had some misgiv­ings. Health issues came to mind first. Any woman who would solicit a total stranger over the internet based on the strength of an Observer column probably had organisms living on her that would make the Crocodile Hunter cringe. 
Plus. at the same time the "if' clause of the proposition worried me. "If I was attracted to you" was the stipulation for the proposed sexual skirmish. I panicked. What if I met her and she wasn't attract­ed to me? Could my ego take that kind of hit? 
Could my very manhood take rejection from the self-proclaimed "horniest person on campus"? I have a feeling that upon being rejected by her, my genitals would simply implode of their own volition ­because I certainly wouldn't be needing 

them anymore. 
Either way, she had sent the e-mail so the ball was in my court. It was up to me to e-mail her back and let her know whether or not any balls would be moving towards her court, so to speak. 
The e-mail I sent back was irreverent and clever, but I'd like to think that I still imparted to her the right balance of des­peration and neediness. Swish. Let me end your suspense by telling you that I accepted her offer, and made several offers of my own. 
There is a sad little epilogue to this story. I have yet to meet or hear back from this mysterious, sex-starved woman. S_o, if you are out there and you know who you are, the offer still stands. Unless you are Bill Kirk on a sting operation. In that case, I guess the offer also still stands, but I'll probably enjoy it less. 
Joe Muto is a sophomore Film, Television and Theatre major who hopes to single-handedly usher the phrase "sex you up" back into the mainstream. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be reached atjmuto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Drug policy: single approach insufficient 
In his letter that appeared Wednesday, Bryce • but that solution is just too simple for some peo­Cooper opposes legalization of drugs for three ple. reasons: 1. the financial benefit to the individual I whole-heartedly agree with Mr. Cooper that taxpayer is minimal, 2. legalization does nothing the government's chief responsibility is to pro­to prevent the crime and 3. the government tect its citizens; however, over the years, dan­should not shirk the responsibility of protecting gers change and the government is often dread• its people. fully behind the times. 
Where to begin'? It is no longer accepted in the medical commu­
First of all the numbers Mr. Cooper throws nity that one puff on a joint will send you out make no sense whatsoever. I le ------"riding the wild chicken to oblivion." says that if the $1 billion budget of Indeed, marijuana has been found the DEA were returned to to have many medicinal effects, American taxpayers, each per· such as treatment of glaucoma son would receive "about a and suppression of nausea dollar." from chemotherapy. 
That puts thn number of Yet, marijuana and its taxpaying Americans at 1 much less potent and billion. wdl ovPr three much more useful rela­times tlrn lab'st census, tive hemp is still treated which counts American as if it were the "devil's citizens, not taxpayers. 
weed." While across­At the end of his letter: 
the-board legalization he states that he would 
would not solve gladly pay $20 to insure 
America's drug prob­lw ''\,von't have a drug 
lem, there is a grain of' dealPr across tlrn street" 
truth in the idea. trying to sell drugs to his No one can make the children. If $20 would blanket statement that keep a drug dealer off of "All drugs are bad" or "All the streets, horn's a 50; put drugs are good" because me do\\·n for two-and-a-half. each drug is different and 
As far as prevention of tlw will elicit different responses crinrn goes, America's war on based on the circumstances drugs pays little or no attention around the person using it. lo this facpt of tlw drug problem. Smoking some marijuana and lis­The preforred methodology is to pre­tening to some Bob Marley is going to vent tlw Pntrance of drugs into the country result in an entirely different experince and punish those in poscssion. • than smoking marijuana and being chased by a 
Instead of ovPn~rowding our prisons with pack ofrabid pit bulls. tlu~sc dangerous criminals, the money would be better spent on providing kids with alternative to Tony Trela drugs, like after school sports or extracurricular junior activities. Sranford Hall 
As a side note, if one looks back to the begin­Nov. 28, 200 I ning of the 20th century, one would notice that alcohol use actually rose during Prohibition and significantly dropped off after it was repealed, 
ND hypocritical in support group policy 
Not to bring up the whole sex issue again, but it seems that our won­derful University has worked itself into a bit of a contradiction. While reading my daily copy ofThe Observer, I noticed a promotion for the "6th annual retreat for gay, lesbian and bisexual" students at Notre Dame. Not only is it advertised in the school's paper, but it's also spon­sored by Campus Ministry. 
Before making my point, let me insert the customary disclaimer that I am not, in any way whatsoever, opposed to homosexuality. In fact, I embrace it, whether it's genetic or not. However, I only petition to the University that they keep in mind the position of the Catholic Church towards homosexuality. 
Again, I'm not even Catholic so I'm not arguing for or against their policy, but it seems to be directly in the face of the reasoning behind our school's sexual abstinence rules. 
However much illicit sex goes on at Notre Dame, whether condoned by the University or not, they are far from recognizing it as an accept­able practice. 
Why then is homosexuality not only recognized as acceptable, but also supported by these same governing bodies? If the reason for not allowing sex is that it does not promote a "Catholic environment" amongst the students here, how can anyone believe that the school is really in favor of supporting homosexuality? · 
Could it simply be that Notre Dame does not have to fear tlrn American Civil Liberties Union breathing down its neck by banning sex? Imagine the uprising if a student were to go before the discipli­nary board for being gay. Take the easy way out much? 
If this is simply a matter of avoiding civil liberties lawsuits, let me express my disgust. Not that I'm in favor of anything like frivolous law­suits that will only result in tuition increases, but I'm even less in favor of attending a school which falls victim to the perils of hypocrisy. 
At least the Church's position against homosexuality is biblically based and not completely arbitrary like its aversion to premarital sex. And let me not even bring up the potential for lovers to be living together which would almost certainly lead to an undermining of the sexual rules which ResLife seems so adamant about upholding. So why is one more acceptable than the other? My theory is that it all boils down to money, like everyihing else here; but if anyone has another hypothesis, feel free to lay it on the table. 
Shaun Tarves freshman Siegfried Hall Nov.27.2001 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, November 29, 2001 

MOVIE REVIEW 
'Harry Potter' fans rejoice in filn 
By MEG RYAN Scene Movie Critic 
The day children and adults have anxiously been waiting for finally arrived on Friday. Nov. 16 when "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone" hit theaters around the world. 
Based on author J.K. Rowling's first book of the series, which sold 45 million copies worldwide, "Harry Potter" tells the story of a 11-year-old boy named Harry who resides in a tiny bedroom under the stairs of his aunt and uncle's house. The aunt and uncle spoil their son rotten while Barry hardly has clothes on his For starters, the entire cast consists of British actors back. But Harry's luck suddenly changes when he that are all perfect for their parts. No one is miscast or receives an acceptance letter to Hogwarts School of unbelievable. The three main child actors -Daniel Wizardry and \,Yitchcraft. The tale follows Harry Radcliffe as Harry, Rupert Grint as Harry's redheaded through his first year of school at Hogwarts as he sidekick, Ron Weasley, and Emma Watson as makes new friends, gets his first taste Hermione, the know-it-all who tags of magic and the world of wizardry, "Harry Potter and along in the adventure -play their and discovers the truth about his par­roles wonderfully. Other actors with

the Sorcerer's

ents. stand-out performances include Alan 
Avid Potter fans couldn't wait to see Stone" Rickman ("Dogma") as Professor how Warner Bros. would capture the Snape, the head of Harry's rival house magical world of Hogwarts and the i~iill~/ ··. ·i!ijJ ~ whom the kids think is out to get our characters that reside there. The stu-protagonist; and Robbie Coltrane
out offive shamrocks 

d i o ("From Hell") as Ilagrid, the gentle
Director: Chris Columbus

claimed giant who looks after Harry and helps t h a t Starring: Daniel Radcliffe, the kids along their way. t h e i r Rupert Grint, Emma Watson, Alan The book's magical scenes arc first pri­brought to life with elaborate sets and
Rickman and Robbie Coltrane 
ority in making the movie was fidelity to Rowling's book. In fact, the author was involved in much of the filming. Even so, many doubted the movie would match up to the book (the movie is never as good as the book). For a children's story, Rowling gave an immense amount of detail about all of the scenes and creations. Going into the theater, each reader had his own vision of Hogwarts and its characters. 
Not many viewers were left disappointed. 

costumes thanks to the work of pro­duction designer Stuart Craig and costume designer Judianna Makovsky. One of the most impressive sets, although not central to the story, is the Great Hall at Hogwarts where all of the children and professors cat. Floating candles light the room, and the ceiling looks to be the open sky. As all of the kids sit down, food instantly appears on the tables before them (if only South Dining Hall were so nice). Hundreds of extras and an enormous amount of food are used to capture these scenes in vivid detail. 
Another sequence to look out for is the grand game of wizard chess that has the children playing on a life­size chessboard in their quest to save the Sorcerer's stone. And the action-packed game of Quidditch kt~eps viewers on the edge of their seats as the kids f1y wildly around the field passing the quaft1c and seeking the snitch. 
Hegardless of whether or not they've read the book, viewers will not be disappointed with "llarry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone." The movie tells the book's 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Redford and Pitt make it more than 
country in order to recapture one of our facial gestures andBy JUDE SEYMOUR own. Thus, the movie present<, it-, only sen­body language feel 
Scene Movie Critic, 
sational idea: the CIA is going to abandon more rooted in Bob their own spy and then cover up the whole Redford than in "Spy Game," the new Tony Scott film, is thing. Nathan Muir. This a study in the art of cutting corners. Robert "Spy Game" is largely comprised of ability to make his Hedford cuts them on his last day at the flashbacks. as Muir narrates his interac­character so real is CIA. The veteran spy played by Redford tions with Bishop to CIA associates, who a talent few others 
ingeniously pieces together tiny deceptions are collecting background information. possess. The 
under his bosses' noses in order to execute Muir recounts his first meeting with Bishop movies are going to a more masterful plan. Unfortunately, for in Vietnam, his training of Bishop in miss this · talent Hedford and his character, Scott has cut France, and finally. their extensive work when he finally 
corners as well, focusing-his attention pri­together in Beirut before leading his narra­becomes too old to marily on flashy camera movemenl"i, rapid tion back to the present (which tlm movie appear in films. editing and glitzy flashbacks instead of 
establishes as 1991 ), in which Muir notes Much like this 
being concerned about character develop­he doesn't talk to Bishop anymore. summer's "The ment. Therefore, the film's main value lies The training sequence is the most entic­Score," "Spy Photos courtesy of Universal Pictures in its sheer escapism, in a plot that encap­As CIA agent Tom Bishop, Brad Pitt (right) is trained under the
ing of these flashbacks. but Muir's narra­Game" is a vehicle sulates several mini-climax-tion is immediately called for an older, leg­guidance of mentor Nathan Muir, played by Robert Redford. es to provide numerous "Spy Game" into question. The audience endary actor to 
delights to its audience. 
is aware, through bathroom "pass the torch" to moments with the two star actors, theRedford plays Nathan 
~-cl .;/1·•·~ breaks and fake telephone a newer talent. Pitt is the well deserving movi(i runs at a breakneck pace, with aMuir, an elite spy embarking out of five shamrocks calls. that Muir is scheming recipient in this instance, whose solid act­flow similar to Scott's earlier film, "Enemy
on his last day in the CIA. 
to rescue Bishop \\ithout the ing is demonstrated by one of the .more of the State." Ilis cuts in "Spy Game" areThrough a friendly contact, Director: Tony Scott CIA's knowledge. Therefore, subtle moment-; in "Spy Game." In a heat­just as frantic, never holding a shot longNathan learns before work Starring: Robert Redford it becomes a distinct possibil­ed confrontation between Muir and Bishop enough for significance. Instead, the audi­that one of his brightest CIA and Brad Pitt ity that his narration is part on a rooftop in Beirut, the Bishop charac­ence is meant to feel the looming time con­
trainees has been thrown 
fabrication. The movie ter becomes very animated.. The resulting straint of the execution, as Scott obsessive­into a Chinese prison during an unsanc­should have explored this plot angle as an body movements, speech and facial ges­ly notes the elapsed time of the day, show­tioned search and rescue mission. That excellent complement to the story's action: tures are identical to the gestures of Pitt's ing the narrative time amidst giant freeze­spy, Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt), ¼ill be execut­could Muir get away with his cavalcade of character in "Seven." Pitt's ability to recre­frames. Francois Truffaut, a habitual
ed for his actions by Chinese prison guards lies to agents trained in intelligence? ate the mannerisms of a previous charac­
employer of the freeze-frame himself,
in 24 hours, but the CIA is wholly uncon­Instead, Muir's narration is truthful, and ter shows that he, like Redford, has mas­would have blushed at Scott's overuse ofcerned. After all, intervention on Tom's 
honesty is just not as exciting. ternd the art of making a character seem the tcclmique. 
behalf might hurt current U.S.-Chinese 
Despite having a flat character dynamic, natural and human. Pitt's talent not only Except for a coupln important scenestrade talks. 
lfodford continues to amaze with his non­mirrors Redford's, but it could also lead to with Hedford and Pitt, Scott breezesThis admission is quite alarming in the chalant acting style. llis performances both success and respect similar to that through the material and even manages to wake of current feeling, in which this have always excelled at making the audi­possessed by the legendary actor. 
trivialize the film's other essential relation­country would gladly alienate a foreign 
ence forget they are watching an actor; his When not slowing down to capture 
ship between Bishop and Elizabeth 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Thursdav,J November 29, 2001 
1 adaptation 
tale thoroughly even though many parts were edited out (it's already two and a half hours long). And while Hogwarts is a far off place, tlrn magic comes to life through the story, characters and sets. Viewers can't help but wish they had gone to Hogwarts, belonged to one of the four houses and taken flying lessons in gym class. 
"Harry Potter" has made a rncord-breaking $188 million dollars in its first 10 days of release (and that doesn't count all the people that snuck in using their invisibility cloaks), and may go on to break "Episode One's" l 3-day record of $200 million. It seems that Harry Potter fans, young and old, are proving to be just as devoted as "Star Wars" fanatics. 
Contact Meg Ryan at mtyan@nd.edu. 



(Catheri1rn McCormack, "Braveheart"). This pace provides no diffenrntiation between the espionage and the so-called ten­der moments, which is frustrat­ing. 
"Spy Game" is a thriller with twist<; that could bP found in any James Bond movie. Scott uses a frantic pace to keep the action pulsating. However, the on­screen dynamic between Redford and Pitt is this movie's catalyst. The pair's solid acting hc,ld interest even in the unimagi­native parts, somewhat reconcil­ing the vapid plot. 
While "Spy Game" may not be the best the espionage genre has to offer. it is well worth admission to see these two great actors share the screen. 
Contact Jude Seymour at seymour.7@nd.edu. 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Coens release an invisible 'Man' 
By MATT NANIA 
Scene Movie Editor 
The Coen brothers are two of Hollywood's most versatile filmmakers, and in the l 7 years since their debut feature, 1984's "Blood Simple," they have both exemplified and defied their roles as contemporary auteurs. This has never been more apparent than with the release of "The Man Who Wasn't There." 
"Man" comes on the heels of their Oscar-nomi­nated comedy "O Brother, \'\'here Art Thou?" and showcases the filmmakers' familiar taste for irony, but it does so in a far darker and more stylistically stimulating context. 
The most obvious element of this context is the black-and-white film noir geiT're in which it inhab­its. \Nhile this choice may have some Hitchcock fans up in arms, it is relatively new ground for the Coens. Regardless, director Joel Coen and cine­matographer Hoger Deakins show no lack of skill in the medium, manipulating light and shadow to give the film a depth it would have easily lost in color. 
Now, for those adverse to the non-color format, it should be noted that it's easier to stomach the black-and-white frames because the story takes place in 1949, and, given the low-key nature of the production, the audience might be easily fooled into thinking they're watching a restored print of some long-forgotten noir suspense flick. That is, if not for the dominating presence of Billy Bob Thornton ("Sling Blade"), whose creased, weath­ered face fills every frame with a powerful, stoic silence. 
the black­mail plot is something of a new start for the apathetic barber. There is the sense that, by finally lashing out against the established society that 
has backed him into a dark corner, however futilely. Ed experiences something of a renew­al. 

T h e specifics of Ed's renew­al are best captured on black-and-white film. He seems to become a part of the inky, obtuse shadows which, characteristic of the genre, comprise the majority of the frame. Intangibly, though, he is always present, his worri­some eyes and pensive mouth calling the viewer's maximum attention. Director Coen and cine­matographer Deakins effectively weave light and 
shadow together for a priceless 

Thornton is Ed Crane, a barber noir feel that adorns the story and
"The Man Who 

in the quiet wwn of Santa Rosa, setting to the point of beauty. California content to live his life as Wasn't There" Fans ofthe Coen brothers' previ­the number two man at his broth­ous efforts won't be disappointed
:itt,• ,' tJiii iFI

er-in-law's barber shop and as the because amidst all this artsy husband to his wife, Doris out of five shamrocks expertise is a healthy sampling of (Frances McDormand, "Almost the filmmakers' ironic wit.
Director: Joel Coen

Famous"). The two live a lifeless Although less pronounced than it
Starring: Billy Bob Thornton,

marriage and Ed suspects Doris is was in "O Brother" and "The Big having an affair with her boss Frances McDormand and Lebowski," it is more at home (James Gandolfini, "The James Gandolfini here, in the same way it was in 
Sopranos") at the local depart­ment store. But he doesn't mind much ("It's a free country," he says). Nevertheless, looking for a change of pace, he agrees to finance a dry-clean­ing venture nm by a seedy, traveling salesman. He tlum blackmails Doris' boss to get the necessary $10,000. What follows is a ser1es of twists and complications familiar to the genre: betrayal, bad luck, conspiracies and, of course, murder. 
It is the film's production as a whole that is the secret to "Man's" success. The most important thing to note is its unique execution -partially because of the black-and-white medium and par­
. tially because of Ed Crane's seamlessly integrated voice-over that becomes a key component of the narrative. Ed's act of blackmail is the first of his attempL<i to svvim against the current of his lonely world. Ile is thH title's man who isn't there, and 
l 996's "Fargo." "Man," however, doesn't offer sidesplitting laughter likH its prede­cessors: thn jokes are often as low-key as the entire production. 
Jn contrast, the plot itself is occasionally over­complicated, with too many subplots for its own good. Hitchcock, the man to which this film \-\,ill be credited with immeasurable homage, knew that the secret to suspense was to squeeze as much as possible out of the barest setup. With all of its ele­ments, the Coens have essentially one-and-a-half films: the gem that is "The Man Who VVasn't There" and some extras that might have made for their next venture. 
Simply put, "The Man Who Wasn't There" is Coen-lite, but in a good way. lt contains sprin­klings of the brothers' trademark weirdness, but 
it's also meticulously controlled. The film is so sure of itself that it comes off as effortlessly entertain­ing. It engagHs its audience in com­petent suspense and, if not that, in the amount of visual complexity stuffed into every frame (this is a cinematography-lover's dream­come-true). 
Joel and Ethan Coen have been called acquired tastes, and those who have managed to do so will be suitably equipped to deal with the brothers' tendencies. Like Ed Crane, the Coens are content to quietly ply their trade, to the inevitable delight of American movie audiences. 
Contact Matt Nania at mnania@nd.edu. 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 29, 200 I 
5 early season questions 


November is a great time the Blue Devils. coaches. trate the Illinois defense ment appearance at the end of year to be a college bas­This parity should not If Dunleavy continues to and dish the ball to of the season, don't be sur­ketball fan. With so many really come as a big sur­drain 3s and slash to the Maryland shooting guard prised if UNC fans start huge non-conference match­prise. After all, with so basket the way he has in his Juan Dixon who finished demanding for a coaching ups over the past few many elite teams losing first five games, he will with a game-high 25 points. change. weeks, we players early to the NBA compete with his teammate No. 13 Iowa did not look have Draft, there is no such thing Williams for the coveted like it belonged in the same 
5. How good is Notre

already as "Cupcake City" at thr. Naismith Award at the end arena against No. 1 Duke, been beginning of the year any­of the year. while No. 1 7 Michigan State Dame? 
The jury is still out on this

treated to more. He coul-d also find himself is in a rebuilding this year some Teams with players leav­as a top-five pick in next after losing four starters one, but so far Notre Dame 
has looked very impressive

excellent ing early have decimated year's NBA draft. from last year. hoops. Michigan State, St. John's Although No. 24 ranked on its way to a 5-0 record The and Arizona, forcing them to Indiana suffered a one-point albeit against lesser compe­
3. What is the best confer­
early sea­play lineups filled with setback to upstart · tition. However, many teams ence? ranked in the top 25 have
son games freshmen and sophomores. Marquette in last week's 
are an Smaller schools with vet­For the second straight Great Alaska Shootout, struggled against schools year, the answer to that from the smaller confer­
excellent eran lineups have a golden expect IU to compete for the chance for opportunity to exploit the question is the ACC. The conference championship at ences so maybe the Irish are teams to inexperience of traditional ACC boasts three top-10 the end of the year. The Big better than most college 
see where powerhouses. teams this year with No. 1 Ten has not looked great so basketball analysts original­they stack Duke, No. 4 Maryland, and far, but remember, it is sti11 ly thought. up against No. 8 Virginia. only November. The Irish blew out New
2. Can anyone beat Duke?
other quality opponents, Maryland may be the only Hampshire in their horn<~
At this point in the season,
while it gives coaches the team who can challenge opener while No. 15 Boston
the answer to this question 4. Whatever happened to
opportunity to evaluate Duke this year, while the College struggled to defeat
is probably not.
their personnel and make Cavaliers have the talent to North Carolina and Matt New Hampshire 80 -77. The
Once again, the Blue
adjustments. compete with anyone in the Doherty? Irish are deeper this year
Devils boast the most talent­
As we head into the begin­country. and they have more options
ed starting lineup in the Remember two years ago
ning of conference play next Maryland has recovered offensively no longer being
country as they have steam­when the Tar Heels hired 
month, here are five ques­nicely since its surprising able to rely on the departed
rolled their way to an Matt Doherty away from 
tions that have already season opening loss to pre­Troy Murphy to score a bulk
impressive 5-0 record. Notre Dame? Well, two 
arisen this season: viously unranked Arizona. of the points.
While the Blue Devils years later the Irish under
The Terps were very Freshman point guard
struggled against highly Mike Brey may have the bet­
impFessive in their 76-,63 Chris Thomas has been out­
1. What does all the parity underrated Seton Hall in the ter team.
victory over No. 2 Illinois on standing dishing the ball to
opening game of the Maui The Tar Heels have start­
in college basketball this Tuesday. his teammates.
Invitational escaping with ed off this season with
Maryland will face Duke His 6 assists to 1 turnover
season mean? an 80-79 victory, they have embarrassing home losses
twice this year in what ratio is unbelievable for a
Within just the first three been on cruise control in against Hampton and
could decide the ACC regu­freshman point guard. Ryan
weeks of the season, we've their last four games includ­Davidson.
lar season champion. Humphrey was dominant in
already seen four top 15 ing a blowout 80-62 victory While the team is predom­
No. 24 Wake Forest with his return from a suspen­
teams lose to unranked over No. 13 Iowa in the inantly made up of freshman 
new coach Skip Prosser has sion last week in winning
opponents.Western ACC/Big Ten challenge. and sophomores, the Tar
been an early season sur­the MVP award in the
Kentucky stunned pre-sea­While Jason Williams has Heels have no excuse for
prise as they reached the Hawaii Pacific Thanksgiving
son No. 4 Kentucky at home proved once again why he's how poorly they have played
Finals of the NIT tourna­tournament giving the Irish
while Eastern Washington the best point guard in the especially considering the 
ment last week and took an intimidating presence in
dismantled No. 15 St. Joe's. country, the real reason way other teams have per­
care of Minnesota on the the paint.
The greatest upsets· why the Blue Devils are so severed with young lineups.
road in the ACC/Big Ten The Irish's schedule will
occurred at last week's unstoppable is the emer­Seniors Jason Capel and .
challenge. get much tougher in the
Maui Invitational when Ball gence of small forward Mike Kris Lang must play better
The Big Ten does not next weeks as they face
State reached the finals of Dunleavy. if the Heels hope to turn 
appear to be as strong this some pivotal games against
the tournament after defeat­Dunleavy has picked up their season around. 
year as it has been in the DePaul and Indiana.
ing No. 5 Kansas and No. 6 right where he left off from Life won't get any easier 
past. Illinois did not look Hepeating in the Big East
UCLA on consecutive nights. his MVP performance in last for UNC. The ACC is the
like the No. 2 team in the will be a tough task for the
The Cardinals could not year's NCAA championship toughest conferenee in
nation against Maryland Irish.
keep the magic rolling as it game against Arizona. America, and the Heels will
because of their guard play.
lost to the No. 1 Duke Blue Dunleavy leads the Blue have to face Duke, UVA, and
Starting guards Frank The opinions expressed in
Devils in the finals, but they Devils in scoring with just Maryland twice during the.
Williams and Cory Bradford this column are those of the
deserve a tremendous under 18 points per game. regular season.
shot a combined 7-30 writer and not necessarily
amount of credit for not His versatility and his hustle If Doherty does not lead
against Maryland, while those of The Observer.
backing down from the on the f'loor are an absolute the Heels back to a record
allowing Maryland point Contact Joe Licandro at
Jayhawks, th_e Bruins and nightmare for opposing 28th straight NCAA tourna­
guard Steve Blake to pene-licandro. l@nd.edu 
· The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f·m, at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edic all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
.. 
VW 97 Jetta GL, 5spd, red/drkgry, Student Wanted! Alum owned 2 The Observer: the only place you sunroof, CD, pwrlocks, AC, immac­story. 5 bdr, 2 bth w/new carpet. can get leied on a Wen. night' NOTICES ulate, 29K, FOR SALE appl, sec.roof & PERSONAL 
$12,000/best. Kimberly or Rich at furnace, 3 lot yd, 1 blk.N of Club 23. Who's moving to Tahiti with Katie SEMESTER BREAK WORK 400+ 631-5368 FOR SALE: 2 bdrm limestone 1-800-731 ·0043 SPRING BREAK Largest selection and me???? LOCATIONS AROUND THE U.S. ranch, close to campus. 2-car of Spring Break Destinations, WWW.WORKFORSTUDENTS.CO 1990 black Honda Accord. Good attached garage, Chicago Apartment in Wrigleyville including Cruises! l really need to remember to place M condition, 127,000 mi. $2500 obo. hardwood floors, finished base­Owned by ND prof. Avail.lmmed. Rep Positions, Free Drinks and out my shag carpet... it's been 
Call 631-7862. ment. CIA. Call 219-233-9146. Large 2 bdrm 1 Free trips available. looking to heavy lately. bath, restored woodwork. bookcas­www.EpicuRRean.com 1-800­SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica, 1994 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera, es, dining rm, hardwood floor, new 231-4-FUN Do you still want to scream at 
S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. 86,000mi, fine cond., loaded, $2800 kitchen, everyone who talks to you, Suzy?

WANTED
BEST or best dishwasher, microwave. Mini blinds, Spring Break with STS, Americas Hotels, FREE parties, LOWEST offer. Call 1-5233. central heat/AC, ceiling fans, pri­#1 Student Tour Operator. Promote Who let the Dug out?? prices! www.breakerstravel.com WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! vate trips on 
(800) 985-6789. Sun Coast Vacations wants to send 1996 Toyota Camry XLE 75k mi balcony, laundry, off-street parking campus, earn cash and free trips. It's Doug, as in 'I dug a hole'. you on Spring Break Loaded Excellent Condition incl. $1575 plus 1.5 months security Info/Reservations. 1 ·800·648-4849 to Cancun. the Bahamas, Jamaica, $10,995 257-3429 deposit. Owner occupied. Call 773-www. ststrave!. com Katie, stop wearing me out. -Snood 
ADOPTION IS LOVE Imagine your or Mazatlan FOR FREE! To find out 348-5832 or e-mail precious baby safe and happy in a how, call 1· bower.1 @nd.edu EARN HOLIDAY CASH 257-8129 Merideth, your life will be complete loving family, 888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun­soon. We're coming home!!! 
FOR RENT
adored by 2 ND Grad parents (a coastvacations.com I feel so badly for small guys, full-time mom and a lawyer dad) especially those that happen to be Call me, Mary. Love, Hugh Hefner
TICKETS

and loving SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­my ex-boyfriend ... playmates in a beautiful home. We in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and PUS mmmrentals.com email:mmm­Apparently someone else likes to promise to give your child the life Parties with the rentals@aol.com Purdue tix -$45 each 080 Call Hi Tami. I love you and can't wait say WEEEEEEE. A;) you dream Best DJs and celebrities in Cancun, Carolyn @ 634-2384. to see you again on Friday. Love of for them. Medical, legal, counsel­Jamaica, Mazatlan, and the Sean Savage. It's my night with Colin!!! ing. court approved living expenses Bahamas. Go to Houses available for 3 to 6 stu­6 tickets for Purdue game for sale. pd. StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293-dents. Good area...ADT, washer­Sets of 4 and 2. Best offer. Call Bill My roommates are the 6 coolest The Observer Sports Department Confidential. Please call our attor 1443 or email dryer-air. Dave 287· and hottest ladies! ;) love you. kendall! ney at (708) 922-4795. sales@studentcity.com to find out 340-0106 1604. 
more. BOOOOOOOOOOOOTS! Hello. is Shaniqua there?? 
l 
1 ~ ­
Thursday, November 29, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
MLB 
Hearings addr~ team elimination 
NFL 

Warner looking to make comeback
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 

Ilearings will start Tuesday on the players union grievance to stop baseball owners from elimi­nating two teams before next season. 
Lawyers for players and own­ers met with arbitrator Shyam Das on Wednesday, and the sides agreed to two days of hear­ings next week in Irving, Texas, where the executive board of the players' association is scheduled to hold its annual meeting. 
The hearing shifts to New York for four consecutive davs of t(~stimony starting Dec. 10. • 
Union lawyer Michael \Veiner 

• 
said the sides agreed to addi­
tional hearing dates in 
December if thev are needed. 
Players claim· the Nov. 6 vote 
by owners to eliminate two 
teams violated their labor con­
tract, which expired the follow­
ing day but remains in effect. 
Owners have not picked Urn 
teams, but the Montreal Expos 
and the Minnesota Twins are the 
leading candidates. 
Owners took no additional steps on contraction when they met Tuesday because a Minnesota judge issued a tempo­rary injunction Nov. 16 that forces the Twins to play home games at the Metrodome next season. Baseball and the Twins have asked the Minnesota Supreme Court for an accelerat­ed review, hoping the injunction will be lifted. 
It is unclear how long the grievance hearings will go on or when Das will rule. 
Baseball commissioner Bud Selig said the elimination of teams will happen, but acknowl­edged the timetable was out of his control. 

Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Kurt \Varner isn't used to 
missing his target. 
The St. Louis Rams' quarter­
back -who's connected on 69 
percent of his attempts this 
season -is coming off the first 
game in his 37 career starts in 
which he completed fewer 
than half his passes. 
Against Tampa Bay on Monday night, Warner was 19­of-39 for 291 yards and one touchdown, with two intercep­tions. 
"I don't look at the num­bers," Warner said vVednesday as the Harns (8-2) returned to practice. "I watch the tape, though. I didn't make enough plays, bottom line." 
Before Monday, he had 13 straight games with a comple­tion rate of 60 percent or bet­ter. 
But the Buccaneers aren't the first team to give the 1999 NFL MVP trouble this year ­Warner has thrown 11 inter­ceptions the last four weeks. 
On Wednesday, Rams coach Mike Martz faulted his play selection. 
"I think I could have called a much better game for him, to 

be honest with you," Martz 
said. "I could have given him 
better opportunities in the 
passing game. "1 was pleased 
when I looked at the tape ­
didn't realize he played as well 
as he did." 
Warner said he felt like he 
was thrmving the ball where 
he wanted to for the most part 
and making the right decisions. 
But he sensed an overall lack 
of focus for the team. 
"It was just one of those games where we just weren't all clicking," he said. "The tim­ing wasn't all there and I didn't put the ball where I wanted to every single time." 
\Varner credited the Buccaneers' defense for much of his problcms. 
"When you're playing a good defense, you'd better be on," Warner said. "You have to be on top of your game and we obviously weren't, and it showed." 
Martz, meanwhile, has sev­eral injuries on defense. The Hams will be without end Leonard Little (knee), line­backer Don Davis ( wrist) and strong safety Adam Archuleta (ankle) for Sunday's game at Atlanta. Safety Kim Herring (hip pointer) might be out. 

ND AFTER FIVE 


Thursdalj, Nov.29 
7:00 
p.m. Film, Into the Arms of Strangers, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library* 

7:00 
p.m. College Bowl Quarter Finals, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame Room 


7:30 
p.m. Play, "Antigone" Washington Hall* 

7:30 
p.m. Howard Marshmallow Roast, South Quad 

7:30 
p.m. Lecture by George Weigel, "John Paul II: A Life for Life", McKenna Hall Auditorium 


8:30 
p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop In Lacrosse, Rolfs 

8:30 
p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, Lafortune Student Center 


9:00 
p.m. College Bowl Semi­finals, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame Room 

9:00 
p.m. -1 :00 a.m. CLUB ND, dance and free munchie buffet, Alumni-Senior Club 

9:00 
p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 


10:00 p.m. Movies: Legally Blonde and Clueless, De Bartolo 101 and 155* 
Fridalj, Mov.30 
7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop In Badminton, Rolfs 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Legally Blonde and Clueless, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
7:30 
p.m. Play, "Antigone" Washington Hall* 

7:30 
p.m. Alasdair MacIntyre lecture, "Pain, Grief and Other Signs of Life", McKenna Hall 


8:00 
p.m. ND Collegium Musicum, Moreau Seminary Chapel 

8:00 
p.m. 807 Mass, Lounge, Coleman Morse Center 


8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Bead Jewelry, Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 
9:30 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Java and Jazz, Free Ice Skating, Joyce Center 
10:00 p.m. Movies: Legally Blonde and Clueless, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
11 :00 p.m. Tournament Fridays, Chess, 
LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 
Saturdalj, Dec.1 
5:00 p.m. Mass, His Eminence Francis Cardinal George, o.m.i., Presider, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:00 p.m. ND Hockey vs. Lake Superior, Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Legally Blonde and Clueless, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
7:30 p.m Play, "Antigone" Washington Hall* 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 
10:00 p.m. -1 :00 a.m Open Karaoke in the Huddle, LaFortune Student Center 
10:00 p.m. Movies: Legally Blonde and Clueless, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
10:00 p.m. -1 :00 a.m. All Ages Dance Party and Tournament Night (darts, pool, shuffleboard and trivia contest) Free refreshments and prizes for the winners, Alumni Senior Club 
This ad is published by the Student Activities Office. Programs subject to change without notice. 
* All programs are free to ND students unless marked by an asterisk (*). 
FOR ~ORE IMFORMATIOM, VISIT: w,vw.nd.edu/-.sao/
. 

·\ 
\ 
' ( 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 29, 2001 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Ohio quarterback pleads no contest 
Associated Press bation for two years and sen­tenced him to 180 days in jail, then suspended all but six of
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

those days. 
Ohio State quarterback Steve 
Bellisari pleaded no contest "If you violate your probation, Wednesday to a drunken driving you have 17 4 days on the shelf that you must serve," Pollitt said. 
~h~r~e and will serve three days m Jail after the Buckeyes play in Bellisari. who barely spoke 
the Outback Bowl on Jan. 1. during the hearing, said as he The 21-year-old senior co-cap­left court that he would now 
focus on his football career.
tain also was sentenced to three days in an alcohol diversion pro­Weiner told the judge that 
gram. Bell!sari did "one stupid, "It was his call because he unthmkable thing and it has cost him dearly." 
wanted to get it over with," said defense attorney Sam Weiner. Bellisari, of Boca Raton, Fla., A second, less-severe drunken will serve his jail time Jan. 11­
13. ·driving charge and two traffic 
misdemeanors were dismissed He struggled early in the sea­by Judge H. William Pollitt Jr. son, but played at his best in the 
Bellisari, a three-year starter, two games before the arrest was arrested Nov. 16 by campus wins over Minnesota and police. They said he failed three Purdue. In nine games, Bellisari roadside sobriety tests and test­went 98-of-185 passing for ed 0.22 on the blood-alcohol 1,599 yards with eight touch­scale, more than twice the 0.10 downs and six interceptions. level to be considered legally drunk in Ohio. 
Coach Jim Tressel suspended 
l!ata~onia
him for one game, against 
S.f/yi, , . !JIJ -~ ., . t . ' 
Illinois. Bellisari was reinstated 
~:rciotu-wely
in time for the game Saturday against archrival Michigan but 
Of . C
did not play. Ohio State won 26­20. 
Sminute~~ 
Pollitt suspended Bellisari's 
fron1 CUTPCIIT 
driver's license for six months, 
Campus ~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
fined him $350, put him on pro-
CANDIDATES 
A.."\ID THE1R SPONSORS 
LOREN MARTL.."IBZ, MARY A. BLAZEWICZ 
KE_LECI-11 NDUX'\'-''E, OMETEOTL ACOSTA 
JOSIAH NEELEY, JASON REESE JE~"NJFER SHAEFER, MARIA CANAlAS MEGA.."'\T §cA...'IL~-\...'\l, JosErH SALIBA ~'IDY STYLES, ELIZABETH BAUER DA'\'VN TERRY, }IM MANNEX MEREDJTB THO~'IBURGH, ERICA MARIN JOSH TO\VNS, TONA BOYD BRA...'IDON WoLF, GARY HORTSCH KEN YoUNG, WILL THOMPSON 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 


This Sunday we celebrate the Rite of Welcome at the 11:45 a.m. Mass for those who are parfu.cipating in the Rite of Christian [nitiation for Aduilts. Two groups of peoplle ,villll lbe form.aHy welcomed as those seeking to lbe fuHy initiated into the Cathollic Church. The first are the Catechum.ens, those who are seeking Baptism., Eucharist and Confirmation. The second group is candidates, lbaptized Christians, who wish to compllete their initiation into the Catholic Church. Please keep them. in your prayers. 
TONY ARA.TA, MIKE MACDONALD MEGAi."'\J CASSERLIE, CLAIRE HoIPKEMIER SA..'\JDRA DECRAENE, RICHARD DECRAENE JOSEPH FOY, ]AY JOHNSON HEATHER GOLLATZ, LAUREN WILLOUGHBY DrNAB HA.."'\JSON, ToM ANDERsoN SHELBY HUBER, ELIZABETH WONS HEATHER KUI-1LENSCHMJDT, PAT WHITE JIM LEE, JOSHUA STAGNI MARK MARTlNETS, HEATHER RAKOCZY 
CATECHUMENS 
.AND THElR SPONSORS 
R.\CHEL BERG.MA...
"'¾J, jOHN BERGMAN JUS.TIN BlDDLE, SARA CAMPNEY LISA CORBITT, TOM APKER CARRJE F~"'\JKLIN, MARY ANNE CAPPELLERI RYA.."\J" GIA.."\J"ELLl, GAVIN LAMB Ri\.CHELLE HONG, KATE AERTKER 
KEN KELLEY, SEAN DUDLEY 
LAURA LESLlE, MATT BOULGER JENN1FER R.EDE~O, ELIZABETH CRYAN T1-1EODORE WONG, LUSIENA WONG 

Ministrv 


NOE Retreat #69 (February 1-3, 2002) 
Monday, December 3 through Friday, December 7 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

dav 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
ROTC Freshman Retreat 
Moreau Seminary 
11
AII Made in God's lmage 0 
Gay/lesbian Retreat 
NOE Retreat #68 
Fatima Retreat Center 

........dav 

RCIA Inquiry Session 
10:00 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
First Sunday of Advent 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 


The Way Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 

¦ Presiders 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, December 1 Mass 
5:00p.m. 
His Eminence Francis Cardinal George, o.m.i. Archbishop of Chicago 
Sunday, December 2Mass 
10:00a.m. 
Rev. John H. Pearson, c.s.c. 
11:45a.m. 
Rev. Mark L. Poorman, c.s.c. 
¦ Sunday's Scripture Readings 
Happy New Year! 
¦ By Frank Santoni, Assistant Director, Special Projects 
5...4...3 ... 2 ... 1 ...Happy New Year! Happy New Year? But it's still November! That's right, but on Saturday when we turn our calendars to December we will be on the eve of entering into a new year. Sunday is the first day ofAdvent making it the first day of the Church's new liturgical year. Advent, a lot like Lent, is a special time of preparation as we get ready to celebrate the birth of Jesus at Christmastime. 
It used to be that the day after Thanksgiving marked the official beginning of the "Christmas season." Each year it seems, however, that Christmas decorations appear earlier and earlier. Pre Christmas and Pre-Pre-Christmas sales fill the stores by early November. But Advent is.. its own unique time on the Church calendar that unfortunately often gets lost amidst the rush toward Christ­mas. As a community of faith, it is importnant that we set aside this time in anticipation of Christ­mas, when Christ's first coming to us is remembered. 
Advent signals that the Lord is coming. Advent comes from the Latin word for an "arrival" or a "coming". How can we use this time to set our minds and hearts to take in the Christmas miracle more fully and deeply? Being deliberate about the way we prepare for Christmas helps to ·keep us focused on the true meaning ofGod's gift to us in the miracle ofJesus. It helps keep us buffered from the inevitable crush of comrnercialism that marks this time ofyear. Advent carves out some time for us to properly think about and pray about the celebration we are about to enjoy on December 25th. 
Advent also calls us to think ahead to Christ's second coming at the end of time. In fact, the Scripture readings for Mass this Sunday kickoff Advent with a challenge to be aware of that second coming. The Scriptures call us to live honorably as we await his return. The Advent season challenges all of us to ask ourselves, ''Are we ready to receive Christ again?" 
One way to respond to the challenge Advent poses is to consider all of the ways Christ comes to us each day. During Mass we encounter Christ in the Eucharist and in the Word of God proclaime<;l. We see Christ in the face of the person with no home, no food, no freedom. 'X'e embrace Christ in a broken loved one. How is each one of these encounters an invitation to welcome Emmanuel, God with us, in new and meaningful ways? 
Like all seasons in the Church, Advent has its own traditions and symbols to help evoke reflection on the coming Christ. You may notice Advent wreaths with three purple candles and one rose­colored one up near the altar or at the back of the church. The circle shape of the wreath represents God's eternal nature and that of the love He has given us in Jesus, the Alpha and Omega. The evergreen expresses God's unchangeableness and the eternal life we find in Christ. The purple candles, like the purple associated with Lent, remind us that Advent is a time of preparation and longing, while the rose candle symbolizes joy and hope. Red ribbons stand for the blood Christ shed for us on the cross. 
The Advent wreath is only one of the traditional elements that Advent brings. Who doesn't remember waiting eagerly as a kid to flip open the tiny little doors on an Advent calendar to get to the piece of chocolate hidden behind it. Making and decorating a Jesse Tree is also a creative way to conjure thoughts of Christ's arrival. Each ornament on a Jesse Tree is a symbol ofsomeone in Jesus' family tree, like Noah, David, Jacob or Mary. This Friday after 807 Mass at the Coleman-Morse, we will be making our own Jesse Tree and everyone is welcomed to join in. Cookies and cider will be provided. Mass starts at 8:00 p.m. and the ornament-making should start around 9:30 p.m. 
So, celebrate the new year that begins this weekend. Think about how you might approach Christmas differently this year, keeping in mind that Advent offers us a perfect way to do just that. 

Mal<e a Jesse Tree for Advent 
Create ornaments for a tree of your own or hang them on the Campus Ministry Tree in the Student Lounge. Cookies & Cider 
9:30 p.m. 
-ct1··.-.·.?t
'.,,, ;:/
'' 
' 

1st Reading Is 2: 1-5 2nd Reading Rom 13: 11-14a Gospel Mt 24: 37-44 
page 16 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 29, 2001 

Irish 
continued from page 20 
"We didn't come out on fire. They wanted it more than we did." 
Despite many opportunities, the Black Knights struggled to put points on the board, as only two players logged dou­bled figures. 
Senior guard and captain Chris Spatola scored a team­high 19, while forward Matt Collins added 11. 
No other Army team mem­ber scored more· than four. 
Notre Dame's sluggish start is of some concern to a team that is set to face a tough week ahead when it takes on De Pau I , Indiana an d rvt iam i (Ohio) on the road. 
"If wt~ come out like that again we're going to get our hats handed to us." Graves said. 
The Irish travel to Chicago's United Center Saturday for what the Irish see as their toughest test yet ,vhen they take on DePaul at 1:30 p.m. 
Contact Kerrv Smith at smith.387@nd.edu. 
enormous 
FLEECE 
Selection 1 
5 minutes::::.:::....iii~ 
fr_om CIU.,,.CIIIT
Carnpus ~ 
Cold Weather Experts 

Call 259-iooo for mare details 
NBA 
Hill's bone spurs unrelated to ankle injury 
Associated Press 
ORIANDO, Fla. 
Orlando Magic forward Grant Hill has bone spurs on his surgi­cally repaired left ankle and was advised Wednesday to rest. 
The spurs are not related to 
the ankle injury that sidelined Hill for all but four games last season, Dr. Mark Myerson said from his office in Baltimore. 
Myerson performed bone-graft surgery on Hill's ankle in January. 
"As a rule, these spurs will respond to a short period of rest 
and therapy, and do not require surgery," Myerson said. 
Orlando spokesman Joel Glass said that Myerson and the team's medical staff will contin­ue to evaluate, monitor and treat the soreness in Hill's left foot. 
Myerson said it was prema­ture to speculate on the time Ifill would need to recover fully. 
"It's u·nroalistic to set a target on that yet, at least until later in the week." Myerson said. "We're all a little concerned. Grant was worried. We're cautiously opti­mistic at this point. The bone spurs are a little tender now." 


NaUona snem . An e!larriination oftM dom· s their dev~opmen 01ical cont0xts. r~e CQU~s analyzei lley s na1ion, particularly as they bear o 
iitic Ireland moder, nity, landscape.the city, r~ligion. vlolence, family ando nity. 
{' 


Thursday, November 29, 200 I page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 

TOPPINGS 
Sausage • Pepperoni • Mushrooms 
Onions • Green Peppers • Ham Black Olives• Green Olives 
"__,_..,_ Shrimp • Ground Beef • American ~c:M' Sausage• Tomatoes• Pineapple Hot Peppers • Extra Cheese Italian Beef 
PIZZA 

.sm.a.u  Mid  .Law  
Cheese ......................  5.50  ..... 7.25  .....  8.50  
One Topping ..............  6.00  ..... 8.00  .....  9.75  
Two Toppings ............  6.50  ..... 8.50  ..... 10.25  
Three Toppings  .......  7.00  ..... 9.00  ..... 11.00  ..... 13.50  
FourToppmgs  .........  7.50 ...... 9.50  .... 11.50  ..... 14.75  
Saylors Supreme  ....  8.00 .... 10.00  .... 12.00  ..... 16.00  
~ouse  ......................  8.50  .... 10.50  .... 13.00  ..... 17.25  
xtra Cheese  .............50  ....  1.00  .....  1.50  ......  2.00  
Calazone ..........••.5.25  

Pizza Bread .........4.25 Extra Toppings ..... .50 

scr~?J!:{hl'/r~~~esCole Slaw, & Roll Catfish .................•... , ... 8.50 Shrimp .........................6.00 Pierce Chicken Strip Basket . . . . . . . . 5.50 Gyr<? Plate.......................5.50 Beet Manhattan .................. 5 50 Pierce (?ticken 4-pieces w/ mashed potatoes. 5:75 BQ Chicken 4-pieccs w/ mashed potitoes . 6.00 G!lmes IOpe Hotwing Dinner......•. 5.75 Rib 1ips....................... 6.00 
PASTA 
served with Garlic Bread Spaghetti ........•...........3.75 Baked Spaghetti .............. 4.25 Lasagna .......•.............5.00 Chicken Pannesian ............ 5.00 Meatballs . . .80 
DESSERTS 
Cinnamon sticks........... 3.2:'I 
fl.ES.  Small. .......•.4.00  
·APPLE  Med .......... 5.00  
·CHERRY  Lg............ 8.00  

.BEVEI.IAG~ 
2 Liters ............................. $2.00 Pepsi, Diet, Mt. Dew Dr. Pepper, Root Beer 
-

ACCEPTING MAJOR CREDIT CARDS· PICK UP ONLY 
SANDWICHES 
served with Chips Tenderloin ...•...........• 4.75 Meatball ......•............ .4.25 Ham & Cheese............... 4~25 Italian Sub...•..••••..•..•.• 4.25 Italian Beef.................. 4.50 Chicken Pannaesean ......•... 4.50 Steak ................•..... 4.50 Italian Beef & Sausage........ 5.00 
SIDE ORDERS French Fries........•.........1.00 Salads ......................2.75 Chef Salad ........•••....... 3.50 Garlic Bread....•............ 2.00 Oarlic Bread w/ Cheese ........ 3.00 Breadsticks. ................. 2.75 Brcadsticks w/ Cheese ......... 3.50 Hot Wings. ................. .4.50 
2-large Pizzas i lopping 
2-large Pizzs:1s 
wHh 
:~:~~~ S>5~~-:.... ?i.;:::n ... (;;:--c:;~::~ ~~-~:-;J tt-~~~f.f~ i 

P!l,.1~ laJ "' OeH¥.tP{ (f?-X-<h€-€-5f: i:, -:H:h::Hti(HrnD 
;••••••••••••••~•••••••••••••••••••••••o••••••••, 
• •• 
University Resources : •
• for Gay, Lesbian, & •••• • 
•
• • •• It Bisexual Students •• 
• ~T,_.""E-""'ST...,_......·~..,.~._IN...JG ••• • co... ~fTTEE ON • 
• GAY AND LESBIAN 
• 

• STUDENT NEEDS 
• • The Standing Committee on Gay and ••
•
•

Lesbian Student Needs •
•

(Confidential information, education, and resourc.:.5) •
•

Contact: Sr. !vl.l. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent •
•

members (see i,veb sitefor student contac: it?fo) •
•
• 

Office of Campus Ministry : 
("GLB Together"--confidential group meetings which : include prayer and discussion ofspiritual issues· annual •
, •t 

retreat; library with relevant reading materials, •
•

Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@.:nd.edu, or ~
•

Tami Schmitz at Schmitz.8@nd.edu •
• 
It 
•

University Counseling Center : 
(Individual counseling or a confidential support group) : Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen : Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu : 
•
•

For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nrl.edu/~scglsn-' 
•
• 

• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • e • • • • • • • • • • • • -• • • • • • • • : 
OLYMPICS 

Bush says no to IOC request 
• President refuses to support truce during Olympics 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President George W. Bush on Tuesday turned aside an IOC request for a military truce during the Salt Lake City Olympics and will propose a 
U.N. resolution calling for ath­letes to travel safely to and from the games. · 
After a meeting, International Olympic Committee president Jacques Hogge said Bush assured him he would submit the resolution -a tradition for Olympic host nations -to the United Nations on Dec. 11. It will advocate safe passage of Olympic athletes and urge nations to compete peacefully, Hogge said. 
"We did not go into specific issues. He just assured me of the support of the government for the resolution," Rogge said. 
"The word 'truce' doesn't entl1r into it," said national security spokesman Sean McCormack. The resolution seeks safe transport of partic­ipating athletes in keeping with 
U.N. resolutions submitted by Olympic host countries since 1993, \Vhite House spokesman Scott McClellan said. 
The notion of an Olympic truce began in ancient Greece, when warring parties suspend­ed their conflicts during the games. Secretary of State Colin Powell said this month that the 
U.S. military campaign in Afghanistan would continue during the games. 
The U.N. General Assembly approved a resolution calling for a global cease-fire during the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta. Earlier this month, Rogge asked the Bush adminis­tration for a truce -which he 

defined as a cease-fire -dur­
ing the Feb. 8-24 Salt Lake City 
Games. 
On Tuesday, Hogge said the idea of a truce \Vas not tied to the situation in Afghanistan, or any other rngion or country. "It's a world concept," he said. 
Afghanistan is the only nation barred from participating in the \Vinter Games. The country was suspended two years ago after the ruling Taliban would not allow female athletes to compete. 
"We would love to see an Afghan team at the next Olympic Games, but that will only be possible when there is a stable government in place, and when all the conditions that are put by the [IOC] are fulfilled," Hogge said. 
Romney briefed Bush on the involvement of federal agencies providing security for the games. The federal govern­ment will contribute $240 mil­lion of the more than $300 mil­lion for security. 
That's in addition to the $1.3 billion it will take to put on the games -money raised chiefly from corporate sponsorships and ticket sales. The federal government contributed $93.5 million of that to transport Olympic spectators to venues. 
Bush, according to Romney, seemed satisfied with the Olympic security plan. 
"There's no question after (Sept. 11 ), our view of security in the United States and, I would suggest, in the world is different," Ward said. "We have taken every effort to pro­vide a secure, competitive envi­ronment for all participants and spectators and sponsors, and we feel we have a very solid plan." 
Romney gave Bush an Olympic torch and 2002 ski jackets for the president and first lady. Bush also was given a blue blazer with the USOC crest on it and made an hon­orary president of the games, Baldwin said. 
Bush has been invited to the Feb. 8 opening ceremony and told Homney he would like to attend the games or have fami­ly members there but couldn't make a commitment this early . 
wa.. r01 hats
i~\.:)gloves 
· _.,-· ;,__ 1° ".:'!·,,:tor:~ ~ 0 1~ r-t'tt) 'l 
..... • .::, ,..~ l :,) ... -... "· I j 

only r1l . C 
5171 inutes::::::::::...ii~ 
{,"Orn CJUTPCJ!rr Cczn1pzts ~ 
Cold Weather Experts 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
11111111.1 
Special on Color Copies 
8.5 X ]1 regular paper only 
.79 





page 18 The Observer . SPORTS . Thursday, November 29, 2001 

We're nearing thP end of NovPmber. and in the vvorld of college football. that can only mean one thing. 
That's right, its time for the obligatory whining and moan­ing about the inequities ofthP Bowl Champion­ship SPrics -or. as it is more disdainful­ly known. the HCS. 
For those of vou \Yho have been living in a cave for the past three years, the BCS essentially tries to provide college football with a true national championship game. Factoring in a combination of rankings, win-loss records, strength of schedules and other various statistics, the computer spits out the top two teams and pits them against one another in a BCS bowl 


BCS It really works 
game for all th1~ marbles. 
It's a fine idea to be sure, but ovPr the last couple of vears the BCS and its creators have be<>n the targets of a level of contempt and scorn usually reserved for criminals, socio-paths. and Bob Davie. 
Just ask former Miami head coach Butch Davis. whosP 10­1 Hurricane t<>am ..was forr.Pcl to watch I 0-1 Florida State play for the national champi­onship last year. despite the fact that Miami beat the Seminoles in a regular season game. 
The Hurricanes seemed so offended by the slight that one got the sense that BCS offi­cials had asked them to play in the Motor City Bowl. 
The situation got even worse when television commentators and journalists jumped on the bandwagon and started taking up Miami's cause. 
To put it simply, the system just didn't seem fair. 
With all the criticisms that plagued the BCS last year, it's easy to classify the system as an inadequate means of crowning a national champion 
But I'm here to tell you one 
thing: in a college football world previously dominated by random bowl selections. ranking uncertainty and split national titles. the BCS has been a godsend. 
Think about it. !las th,,re ever been a more definite and final way to nnd the college football season'? One final showdown between thP two best rngular season tPams is a perfect conclusion to a l'ort­night of exciting bowl games. 
Some have argued that a logical alternative is a March­Madness style tournament, probably consisting of about eight teams, in which the competitors battle it out on the playing field for the right to earn a national title. 
While this suggestion does have some merit. it falls woe­fully short in the applicability department. 
Aside from the obvious problem of' forcing players to compete well into the month of January and perhaps February, there are other drawbacks as well. 
In essence, a tournament would only be widening the fringe, not eliminating it. 

The Observer is no joking matter. And we want you! Ca/11-4543 
r 
l;,, l( 
;: ,l 
:
i 
}' 'j 
! 
i 
d 
·'' 
,( ', 
ii,' { 
~ 
( 
-I 
%, 
11 ' 
,1 
I( 
/, 
If 
I( 
JI 
Hather than including all tour­nament-caliber teams, offi­cials would be fon·l'1d to make arbitrary cutoffs to include some and exclude others. 
\Vho draws that line? Who determines what teams should be invited? How do you objec­tively separate teams? 
The BCS is rlearlv tlw fairest and most unbiasPd means to distinguish the top teams in the nation. IndPed. what other system adjusts itself in the offseason to accommodate change within its industry? 
This ye~tr. in response to the Miami debacle. the BCS imple­mented a head to head com­ponent in the rankings to ensure that teams will have 
an advantagn ovPr opponnnts who they haVf~ beaten. 
The BCS is p('rfect. In fart. nothing is going to bP more painful for me than to watch two Flori~a teams clash f'or the tit!P on my beloved Hose Bowl turf. 

But that's alright. l'11 still bP eagerly awaiting a fantaslir ganw between two quality opponPnts. 
And sonwthing tPlls nw that Miami \von't be complaining this year. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the writer and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. 

Thursday, November 29, 2001 page 19
The Observer . TODAY 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
CUNNINGHAM 


I o.\re....-<i1 01.v1. I"\~ Wc.t.-.\..._. 
BILL AMEND

FOXTROT 

,,> 
-
Don't try logic. Just give him your watch before you get beat. 


HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ed Asner, Beverly D'Angelo, Petula Clark, Yaphet Kotto, Sam Waterston 
Happy Birthday: Look out for your best interests and live your own dream this year. It's time to stop letting others dictate what you can do. Take control of your life and make changes to satisfy your needs and accomplish your goals. Your num~rs: 3, 11, 17, 24, 33, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
You've been working too hard. You need some excitement. Short trips beckon. Make plans and try to convince a good friend to take a weekend holiday with you. 
000 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Prepare for the weekend. A few alterations to your home will make it more comfortable. This is a great day to entertain. You can help a friend with financial prob­lems by setting up a feasible budget.000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Put your thoughts on paper. You can get your point across ifyou are precise. Ask for assistance. If your idea is sound, people will want to help.it get off tlie ground. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
You will probably end up with more responsibility. Don't make promises you may not be able to keep. Try to keep opinions to yourself. You don't have time for idle chatter. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It's time to put your life in perspec­tive. Gambling is a waste of money. Save what you have for a rainy day. Your time is better spent on physical fitness pro­grams or competitive sports. 00 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Oear the decks so you'll be able to enjoy the weekend. Keep busy, or emotional problems will sur­face. Someone you care about may cause anguish. Avoid dis­putes and anger, which lead to trouble. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Ocl 22): Be 
discriminating about new acquaintances and protect your­self. Avoid being caught in a tri­angle and be careful not to reveal secret information. Do some research before taking someone's 
word.000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Think twice if a friend wants you to contribute financially. Let him or her down easily. Just say you are saving for a vacation or a loan to a relative in need. 000 
SAGrrL\RIUS <NO'\t 22-Dec. 21): 

You will be more emotional than usual. Keep busy with enjoyable activities. If at all possible, attend a lecture. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 

This isn't the day to get angry at a colleague. Do your job and let the boss handle your co-worker's incompetence. Finish your project for peace of mind and then pam­per yourself. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 

You'll attract attention, and per­haps a special person, if you min­gle at fund-raisers or cultural or community events. Your unique ideas and innovative plans will impress others. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): This is not the time to slack off. Prepare your home for an upcoming event. Don't let the work hang over your head. This is a day to share with the people you ca.re most about. 000 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Related on the mother's side 
6 Card game with the 13 spades laid out 
10 Unadorned 14 Expensive watch 15 Fine horse 16 "That's_!" 17 Dessert made 
with pineapple 19 Deli order 20 Some facial 
features 21 Out-and-out 22 Like some golf 
balls 23 Six, in Tuscany 24 Phone trio 25 Body of work 27 Was considered 
special 29 Flip 31 Strauss's " 
Heldenleben" 32 Play stations? 34 Produced 36 Alliance 39 Car opener? 41 Gridiron move 42 Left ventricle 
attachment 44 Hunk 46 William, to Diana 47 Partied, so to 
speak 49 Sentences 52 Very soon 54 Chamber 
worker?: Abbr. 55 Part of i.o.u. 57 Old _, Conn. 58 " letter" 
(office order) 61 War maker 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

62 Wild goat  
63 litle song of a  
Duke Ellington  
album  
65 Gerard  
Depardieu work  
66 One may be  
turning  
67 Make merry  
68 Red army?  
69 Caltech grad:  
Abbr.  
70 Be economical  
with  
DOWN  
1 Explodes  
2 More of a  
buttinsky  
3 Concert pianist  
de Larrocha  
4 Nugent and  
Turner  
5 Letters ending a  
PC code file  
name  
6 See 35-Down  
Puzzle by Elizabeth C. Gor7"1smell_!"  
30 This, to Jorge8 Shed item  
9 Shakespearean fairy  ski 33 Like some drink orders  
10 African language  35 With 6-Down. a  
11 Soap ingredient  logician's phrase  
12 Rental stables  36 Vatican attraction  
13 They get you . nowhere  37 Zoo, so to speak 38 Gargoyle, e.g. 

18 Where they say 40 Like native 
"G'day!" 
llamas24 Riviera vista 43 Ripen
26 Cosmo staff 28 Social grace 45 Charged item 29 Yo-yoing 48 Eightfold 

H. G. Wells title · atomizer 59_impasse
51 Workout wear 
60King_53 Battle of the 
61 Competent 54 One who'll put 64 Sedative, you in stitches? informally 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
12/1: Saturday @ 7:05pm *fRff set1f 
llotre Dame Hockeg trading cards to 1st 750 fans!! (featuring the no freshmen) 
*Pest-game aatograph session!!
~ff.pizza to1st250 students! 
Birthday Baby: Your staying power, courage and need to follow your own path will lead to many accomplishments. Being competitive, you will never back away from a challenge. 
12/2: Sunday @ 5:05pm 
*FREE ponpoms to 1st1,000 fans! 
*Win great prizes in between period contests! 


!ilt;;:tr,....,'l'J 
*fRff • pir.za to 1st250 students! 

National Sports 

. 
Olmpics, p. 17 . NBA,p. 16 

. 
NCAA Football, p. 14 


. 
NFL, p. 13 

. 
MLB, p. 13 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Thursday, November 29, 2~0 I 
Campus Sports 
. 
Column, Boylan p. 18 

. 
Column, Licandro p. 12 



Irish start slow, finish strong in 86-49 win 
By KERRY SMITH 
Spons Writer 
Three teams showed up to play Wednesday in Notre Dame's 86-49 romp against Army: A Black Knight squad that plodded through 40 min­utes of tough basketball, a lackluster first-half Irish team and a second-half Irish squad that delivered what Army coach Pat Harris deemed a "Good old­fashioned Irishland Whoopin'." 
Notre Dame, which came out flat from the opening tip-off, emerged from halftime with Ryan Humphrey at the helm and a more focused mind set. 
There could have been several rea­sons for Notre Dame's attitude adjust­ment. 
According to Humphrey, the spark was sophomore reserve Chris Markwood's halftime observation that the Irish "weren't playing grimy." 
"He said we \Veren't playing grimy. We were playing pretty," Humphrey said. "And I took offense to it and \Vanted to come out better." 
According to freshman starter Chris Thomas, the jump-start in the second half came after an altercation among a few players diving for a loose ball. 
"What got it going was that squab­ble," Thomas said. "It gave us some enei·gy to hand it to them." 
According to Irish head coach Mike Brey. the senior captains got the job done in the locker room. 
"I said a little bit, but I left it to the captains," Brey said. "I think they did a great job of setting the tone." 
Whatever motivation the Irish lacked in the first half, they found in the second half with a 19-0 run that spurred the 6-0 squad to a command­ing 37-point win. 
Once again, Humphrey led the charge with 27 points. The senior for­ward was hot all over the court, tap­ping in easy lay-ups, rolling short jumpers, pounding crowd-pleasing dunks and even nailing a deep shot from behind the arc midway through the second half. 
"With Humphrey they really have a different look," Harris said. "\Vhen he hit the 3 I knew the game was over." 
Humphrey's presence on the court was too much for an undersized Army squad to handle. The Black Knight defense struggled all night to close the inside lane. _ 
"We have to establish o,ur inside game first with Humphrey and Harold Swanagan,'' Thomas said. "They had great players and great guards, but what they lacked was quickness inside. Humphrey is shooting great from the field. If he can do that, it continues to open up the perimeter." 
Perimeter shooting came just as easy as the inside game for the Irish in the second half, as forward David Graves hit four 3s and notched 20 points while Thomas and Matt Carroll combined for 25. 
Yet despite the lopsided scoring at the game's final buzzer, it-took the Irish a while to put the Black Knights away. 
Trading baskets for the first 10 min­utes, the Irish couldn't find a rhythm as the Army squad played persistent basketball. 
Sparked by a three-point play by Humphrey and eight-straight Thomas points, the Irish went on a 12-0 ·run midway through the half to pull ahead with a 12-point lead. 
The Army squad responded with five unanswered points before both teams hit a three-minute dry spell. The Irish led by only 12 at the half. 
"They know how to play. They both­er you and get into you," Graves said. 
see IRISH/page 16­

SMC BASKETBALL 
Blair grabs MIAA honor, leads Belles to victory 
By JOE HETTLER 
Spores Writer 
Last week a Saint Mary's bas­ketball team that started off 0-2 desperately needed a victory. The Belles looked to their senior cap­tain, Anne Blair, for leadership. 
The veteran forward rnsponded with a dominating week of bas­ketball that not only led Saint ~ary's to its first vittory of the season, but also to her being named MLM Player of the Week. 
Blair recorded a double-double with 26 points and 16 rebounds in a 68-62 win over Manchester College on Nov. 20 and followed that performance with 17 points and seven rebounds in an 80-6 7 loss to Indiana University South Bend on Nov. 23. 
,;-
The senior also played 38 of 40 minutes dur­..........'.·· ing the victo­
~· _· J 
;. .. 
,. ry and shot ' 
6-14 from field on against
....~... 
lUSB.
Blair 
Despite 
her out­standing play over the holidays, the South Bend native wasn't expecting to see her name on the MIAA honor role. 
"[Being named Player of the Week] is a great honor," Blair said. "I never expected it and I think it's a good thing for our team, too." 
Blair became only the second player in Saint Mary's basketball history to gain such an award. 
Junior teammate Kristen Matha received the honor early last sea­son. 
Head coach Susan Smith believes that Blair's work ethic has gotten her to this point in her career and set her up for the honor. 
"She's just been that one player since tht~ beginning that's been really working hard and pushing people," Smith said. "She encour­ages every single person on the team, including the coaches. We've kind of stressed to the other players to watch how hard Anne sprints up and down the court because we need everyone to work that hard." 
Like Smith, Blair attributes her achievements to long hours of practice and the support of her teammates. 
"I worked really hard this sum­mer," Blair said. "The team's been great and we're starting to work together and everything's just come together and it's given me a great opportunity. But I real­ly owe a lot to my teammates." 
Blair wiJl look to continue her solid play this weekend when the Belles host their own Saint Mary's Roundball classic tournament. 
The women will face Marian College at 8 p.m. on Friday. hop­ing to advance to Saturday's 3 
p.m. championship game. 
As long as Blair continues to play like she has been, Smith thinks the Belles will keep improv­ing as a team. 
"She just brings a lot of intensity and leadership and positive feel­ings to our team," said Smith. 
Contact Joe Hettler at hettler. l@nd.edu . 



lf 
/l 
~ 
k. 
)I 
j 
I 
.. 
ljd /·/' 
~) 
....,
ij ( 
I·> 
'} 

. 
SMC Basketball vs. Marian, Friday, 8:00 p.m. 

. 
Men's Basketball vs. DePaul, Saturday, 1:OD p.m.


SPOR S 
. Football at Purdue , Saturday, 4:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Hockey vs. Lake Superior State, Saturday, 7:00 p.m. 






