
Need additional entertainment while tailgating?
RAINY 
Friday 
Learn how to play Scene's board game for tailgaters. Then, share with
HIGH 64° 
OCTOBER 12,
friends so they can share in the pre-football game fun. 
LOW 55° 
Scene . page 14-15 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 34 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 

Rego stays ho01e after arrest threat 
By MYRA McGRIFF Saint Mary's Editor 
Cooper Rego will not travel to Notre Dame with the West Virginia football team Saturday, the former Irish running back confirmed in a statement Thursday. 
Rego said Notre Dame threat­ened to arrest him if he arrived on campus. 
"I received notification today from the University of Notre Dame that the institution will 
FAA head 
of security 
quits job 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The head of security for the Federal Aviation Administration decided to quit after he was told to reassign air marshals to com­mercial flights carrying mem­bers of President Bush's Cabinet, a source with knowl­edge of the resignation said Thursday. 
Michael A. Canavan, named associate administrator for FAA's office of civil aviation security in December, said the marshals had been assigned to other flights that he felt could be more at risk of a hijacking, according to the source, speak­ing on condition of anonymity. 
Bush administration officials had wanted marshals on the planes carrying Cabinet mem­bers, who took commercial flights to demonstrate that air travel was safe and thereby encourage Americans to return to flying. 
It could not be learned whether marshals were trans­ferred to the planes carrying the Cabinet secretaries, or why Canavan felt other flights were more vulnerable. 
Canavan did not immediately return a message Thursday. Cabinet officers usually travel with their security aides. 
At the time, the FAA was rushing to hire and train air marshals, while temporarily using armed law enforcement officials from other federal agencies. A small number of air marshals had flown for years on 
U.S. airliners, but the program was sharply increased following the terrorist attacks. 
arrest me if I join my West Virginia University teammates at South Bend," Rego said. "This threat con­
tradicts the basic tenets of fairness as well as the under"­standing that I had with Notre Dame con­

s i s t e n t I y Rego f r o m January 1998 until [Wednesday] morning." 
According to Notre Dame alumna Kori Pienovi. Rego allegedly raped her and was banned from campus after an internal disciplinary hearing in 1998. No criminal charges were ever filed against Rego, and he transferred to West Virginia in 1998. 
Notre Dame did not make a public statement until Thursday if the University would uphold the alleged ban. While University officials declined to specifically discuss Rego's case, University President Father Edward Malloy issued a statement Thursday stating that when a student is permanently dismissed from campus for disciplinary reasons, the student is prohibited from returning to campus. 
"Should the individual come on campus -and campus adminis­trators learn of it -the person is required to leave immediately or face a charge of trespass," Malloy said. "There are no exceptions to this ban." 
Rego's coach also confirmed in a statement that Rego would not be traveling to Notre Dame Saturday, stating Rego requested permission not to travel with the team. 
"Cooper has made an extreme­ly mature and difficult choice based upon the best interests of his team," said head football coach Rich Rodriguez. "Until today, we have had every inten­tion of playing this game with Cooper on our team. Based upon his decision, that will not happen now." 
see REGO/page 7 
Dreaming in dollar signs 

. College waits on $31.5 million for next steps in major building plan 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 
Inside the Blue Mantle year­book office at Haggar College Center, editor Courtney Boyle affectionately refers to her clos­et-sized workspace as "our lit­tle hole in the wall." 
Smaller than most freshman dorm rooms, the Blue Mantle office has to squish close to 15 editors in an office space barely large enough to fit two desks. 
And there's one more prob­lem, too. It only seats six. 
"It's very frustrating trying to coordinate when people can work here," Boyle said. "Basically, only one section can work at a time." 
Boyle's made do for the past two years by scheduling staff meetings after-hours at Haggar when the staff can use the hall­way outside of the office to spread out page layouts and pictures. She and other editors frequently design pages on their personal computers in their dorm rooms, where they don't have to worry about space. 
But last year, Boyle became a little bit hopeful when she heard that the College's Master Plan, a multi-year construction project, included a plan to build her a new office in the newly­proposed student activity cen­ter. 
The Master Plan, first announced by the College in the fall of 1999, includes plans for a new student dining hall, new student activity center, new classroom building, new athlet­ic field, new parking lots and eventually, apartment-style res­idence halls. But even though the highly-touted plan has been talked about for more than two years, Boyle has little fa i t h she'll ever see t h e results. 
" I t won't be anytime soon," she said, looking around the office. "A lot of it is just talk. It's a great plan, but only if we're ever able to see what all the talk is about." 
The Board of Trustees will try and take the next step in the plan today when they convene to discuss the progress of the Master Plan. According to Keith Dennis, vice president of Finance and Administration, board members were sched­uled to draft financial require­
. ments for moving forward with the next phases of the plan in a finance committee meeting Friday afternoon. 

Step by-Step 
The next step in the plan wo·uld be the largest and most expensive construction since the construction project was proposed in 1999. The pro­posed $18.5 million dollar stu­dent center and dining hall is scheduled to be completed in two construction phases. Phase one would include construction 
see NEW PIAN/page 9 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, October 12, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The CCC -what? 
So how many students do you think are in clubs? I'd bet at least half of the students at Notre Dame ar<' in at least one club. That's at least 
6.000 student.., participating in extracurrir:ular activities through clubs on both campuses. 
On Activities Night thousands of students stream through the JACC picking and choosing their plate of activities for the coming school year. The clubs, having prepared the previous spring for Activities Night, show their best and finest to get more students interested. 
Now, the clubs have offi­cers and members. They can plan activities and put up posters around campus (as long as they have been approved by Student Activities). 
So that's it. right? That's all ther~ is to being a club? 
Not exactly. 
What happens if your dub runs into prob­lems? \Vho do the officers go to with questions? The answer to that question is that they should go to the CCC. 
The CCC what. ..? 
The CCC, ofliciallv the Club Coordination Council. is an aid and advocacy for student clubs on campus. It has an office·in 314 LaFortune. right past all the dubs' mailboxes. 
To better help the clubs. it is split into live divisions: i\rademic, Athletic, Ethnir, Service/Sodal Action and Sp<~cial Interest. Each division has three representatives that are them to help clubs with planning and by answering questions specific to the ne<'ds of their division. HepresPntativcs have office hours Monday through Friday. 
So. that's what thev do? 
Tlw CCC has W('ekiy mPPtings on Monday nights in which are disC'ussed issues of conces­sion stands. upcoming.club activities. policies and budgeting. 
Conc('ssion stands? Budgeting? What does the CCC have to do with those things'? 
Thi~ CCC allocates money and concession stands to clubs each year. They do a spending review after fall break to see how the clubs are spending their money and to make sure they are sticking to their proposed budget from the year before. They also hear emergency appeals for unexpected expenses (each club can appeal once per semester). Then, during the spring semester is when things get busy for the CCC. During spring semester is wlum club registra­tion occurs. Clubs that want to remain in ac:tive status need to register and apply for funds Of they ne<'d the money). What the CCC has to do is go through each budget with the of1icers and determine funds for the next year's program­ming. The representativi~s take notes on organi­zation of the club, amount of programming, number of active members, and how specific the budget is. There are some clubs that come in with impressive plans for the next year and their budget comes within pennies of zero, but when the numbers in the budget are checked, they're off by almost $100. The dec:isions that the CCC makes based on the registration form and budget determine how clubs will have to structure their next year. It can't give everyone everything that they want. but it tries to be fair and rational in its decisions. 
The CCC is there for clubs, to support and help them. 
Contact /\ngela Campos al campos. l@nd.edu. 
The tJiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer rcg~trds it~df .1s d professional publication and strin-s for the highest sund,trds of journalism at all times. We do, however, rei.:ognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistakt', pleast" contact us ,11 63 I -4 54 l so we can i.:orren our error. 
Tiu· ObS('rwr (l'Sl'S 'i'>'> 2-4000) is published MnndAy dimui:h Friday exn·p1 durini: <'X,llll .md v,1<,Hiun periods, The Ohsc:rver i1 ,1 m..-mber of the Aiso.:i.uc-tl Pr.-ss. All reprod11c1 ion rii:lus .ire-rnerved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
ND students assaulted in Pittsburgh 
Tuesday, October 11. 1988 Two Notre Dame band members were assaulted late Saturday night in downtown Pittsburgh after the football game. Freshman Mike Caldwell and sophomore Karl Schudt each rec:eived slash wounds to the neck. Both were treated and releas<~d from a Pittsburgh hospital following the assault. They returned with the band Sunday and attended classes and band practice Monday. 
Hesburgh OK's liquor guidelines 
Thursday, October 11, 1973 The Student Life Council ended its longest meeting in history announcing University President Father Theodore Hesburgh 's acceptance of new drinking guidelines. The rule stated that students should "challenge one another to find mon) creative ways of socializing. \'\Then p1~opl1~ come together, the use of alcohol must be secondary to their personal interaction." 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
BEYOND CAMPUS 
Stanford professor receives Nobel Prize 
STANFORD. Calif. 
Wednesday. Stanford University emeritus economics professor i\. Michael Spenc:e was named one of three recipients of the 2001 Nobel Prize in Economic Scienc.es, along with professors from Columbia University and University of California-Berkeley. 
Spence. a former dean of the Graduate School of Business. Columbia professor Joseph Stiglitz, a former World Bank oflicial who teach­es at the Stanford In Washington pro­gram and Berkeley's George Akerlof received the award for their work in information economics. 
Spence, 58, is currently vacationing in llawaii. but told the Stanford Heport that thP honor was ..wonder­ful." 
"It's an incrediblP honor to be rec­ognized for something that people perceive as moving the ball down thP field on one's academic discipline." lw said.. 

Their research. which was part of' Spence's thesis, dealt with asymnwtric information in the markr:tplace. According to the Nobel Web site, "This year's Laureates laid the foundation for a general theory of markets with 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Grade inflation dispute goes public 
CAMBHIDGE, Mass. 
The long-running disagreement between Harvard University's Kenan professor of government llarvey Mansfield Jr. and Dean of the College Harry Lewis regarding grade inflation took a very public turn this weekend, as the Boston Globe published private e­mails Lewis wrote to Mansfield. Lewis has publicly contested Mansfield's claims about grade inflation, particularly his assertion that it was caused in part by an influx of black students to the College in the 1960s. Lewis sent an e-mail to Mansfield on Feb. 12 claiming that his hands are tied in dealing with the problem. "As you know, I have nothing to do with faculty policy; [Dean of the Faculty) Jeremy [Knowles) has made sure of' that." Lewis wrote. Lewis' e-mail also blamed grade inflation in part on "a collapse of critical judgment in the humanities and some of the social sciences." Lewis said his Feb. 12 e-mail to Mansfield was explicitly pri­vate and "off the record." Lewis told the Globe he con­siders Mansfield a friend and was "disappointed" to find Mansfield had shared his e-mail with the press. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

asymmetric information." 
Even today. Nobel officials said. their research continues to have an impact on markets ranging from th11 traditional to modern. 
Spence has specifically focused on communication and signaling in· the marketplace. I le saw that people with knowledge often took risks to improve their market outcom(~ by srnding information to people without knowl­edge. · 
Nobel Laurrat(' Kenneth Arrow. an· rmeritus profossor of' economics and operations rese11rch at Stanford, has sr:rvcd as Sp('l1C('·s tlH'sis advisor. 
Through his resc\arch. Stiglitz asserted that peop!P ·without knowl­rdge ,,·en' abl<' to glc>an information from peopl1> with knowlcdg11. I lis thPo­ry offprs insight into urrnmploynwnt and credit rationing. 
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 
Defense research security increases 
AUSTIN. TPxas 
The University of Texas-Austin is increasing s1!rurity at its rcscarrh centers in an dfort to protPct its studiPs on dcl"ense research, inducting biological and dwmical warfare. After five years of' investigating dcfensn against biological and chemical warfan~. Tt>xas researchers sav they are within weeks of announcing the discovery of' a;1 anthrax antidote. This discovery comes at a tinw of incr~asing worry over biological warfan~. as anthrax scare~ occur throughout Austin. Brent Iverson, a chem­istry and biochemistry professor, and George Georgiou. a biomedical engineering professor. are supervising tlrn antidote project. which must still undergo a s,~cond round of testing. While the waging of such warfare is historically ram. the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 have left the nation. and especially defense researchers, with eyes wide open. "The University community and the rnst of the country is very concerned with pot1'ntial threats. so it's our responsibility to bP proactiv(~ and takn what­ever security measures we c:an to reduce tho threat," said Juan Sanchez, vice president for rnsearch. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

50• 
0 2001 AccuWeather, Inc.  COLD  WARM  STATIONARY  
Prw1urw: ® ©  D  .  c=:J  ru3  1~:.-:':.d  ffi]  {) -q:¼4..,  ~i~#•'  
High  Low  Showen  Rain  T-alormc  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt, Cloudy  Cloudy  
v-. As.soc,atect Press  
Atlanta  73  64  Las Vegas  78  57  Portland  65  51  
Baltimore  73  55  Memphis  75  62  Sacramento  89  52  
Boston  69  56  Milwaukee  63  51  St. Louis  72  55  
Chicago  65  51  New York  71  56  Tampa  86  72  
Houston  82  63  Philadelphia  75  58  Washington DC 73  58  



Friday, October 12, 2001 page 3 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
======== ===================================================================================================================== 
Documentary raises c~wareness of Taliban 
By SARAH NESTOR News Writer 
Students and faculty gathered at Saint Mary's last night to view the documentary film "Beneath the Veil." The documentary was filmed earlier this year and focuses on women living under the Taliban regime. 
Saira Shah, a freelance jour­nalist born in Britain of an Afghan family. produced the film. Shah brought two crew members, but she also went undercover by herself to truly understand how the Afghan peo­ple live. 
Shah's journey began in Pakistan and delved into the Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan. RAWA is self-described as "an organiza­tion of Afghan women struggling for peace, freedom, democracy and women's rights in Afghanistan." 
The film showed the women of RA\VA risking death by defying the Taliban, educating women, going to beauty salons, and try­ing to awaken the outside world to the inhumanity of the treat­ment of women in Afghanistan. 
Shah said the film depicted "women trying to keep things normal. in a world gone com­pletely mad." 
The law of the Taliban system is there to protect the women, according to the Taliban, but it has actually driven the women into the streets to beg. The women are not allowed to work, so there are over 40,000 widows who have no means to make an income. Women are not allowed to go to male doctors, but women can't work as doctors. which perpetuates the problem­atic cycle. Afghanistan also has one of the highest rates of death at birth, and one in every four children dies. 
"There most be some future for women in Afghanistan. If that's a happy one, that's a dif­ferent question," Shah told CNN. 
The documentary also showed the life of tribal Afghans of the north and their resistance against the Taliban regime. The people spoke of the many civil­ians that have died because of the resistance and the Taliban's violence. The images included scenes of dead corpses, blood­stains and crying relatives. 
Following the documentary. philosophy professor Ann Clark gave a brief history about Afghanistan and its people. 
"There is a long history of competition for the rule of Afghanistan. It is a country with a mosaic of different ethnic groups and a tradition of civil war," Clark said. 
However, comments in the dis­cussion revolved primarily around the current events about Afghanistan and Sept. 11. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 
NEWS BRIEF 
Holy Cross celebrates 35 years 
SpeciaJ to The Observer 
Holy Cross College officials will dedicate a major new addition to a campus build-­ing today as a part of its 35th anniversary celebration. 
Officials will dedicate at 4 
p.m. the 25,000-square-foot 
addition  to the  Vincent  
Atrium  and  Classroom  
Building.  

The dedication ceremony will include a performance of the College's first-ever alma mater, a song composed by a music professor at the school. 
The College has also planned an anniversary Mass Friday at 12:15 p.m. in St. Joseph's Chapel. 
The event will take place in conjunction with the College's Board of Trustees fall meeting. 
ELEGANT AFFAIR -IN THE DINING HALL 

------­1e's Pasta, Sandwiches, Service & More ! ! ! EDELIVERY 11am till lam (3am on Fri. & Sat.) 4indta 8 inches 12iaclaes 16inches 2'party "Veggi" Sl.90 $3.81 SS.24 $6.67 $17.14-FAICbMeatorOleesc 48¢ 71¢ 95¢ $1.19 $3.33 Help us Serve You Better 1 )Please decide before ordering ::vmr=am! 99!••m•im ofthele gpinp·Ham AmaricanCbeao Lettuce Slit a/or Pepptt2)Call 243-9911 Turkey OwldvQeese Tomato Pa:1anan Cbee9e3)Start with your phone number s.1..,.; Mozzarella aw Onions ()ppao4)Name & address next please Pepperoni Provolone Cheese Green Peppers MaymuiaeS)the best order for listing your sub Bacon Strips SwissCbeese Fresh Mushrooms Low Cal MayoRoatBeef-size then white or wheat then meats & .lalape&s Brown Muard Steak Chic:bo Salad Cualftlbus Yellow Mmlmdcheese then vegetables then condiments then Meatballs TunaSalad Pic.¼le Honey Musblnlifheated Jtaia S­...-~"' Black Oliva Oil &/or v,,,..,.6)ifpaying by Debit or Credit Card . Breast Banana Peppers ICetdlJpplease give number next BBQPort A-1 Steak S.ace 7)Sit back and anxiously anticipate dinner Garlic Spread BBQS1111ce Cayenne pepper Cbeddlr Sauce Habemrohpps' Marimra October Special -FREE CHIPS WITH EVERY SUB Meu & 110R mihHr•t WWW,WOJ,Flf,S,Q)M'  

A Notre Dame pair dances on Founder's Day, which honors the University's founder, Father Edward Sorin. Students were asked to dress up for a candlelight dinners In both dining halls. 
·------------·--·--------·-­




Campus Ministry 
Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
• 
Notre Dame/West Virginia Football Weekend October 13-14, 2001 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart · Parish Crypt 6:30, 8:00, 9:30 & 11:00 am 
... 

RLD 
ATION 
Friday, October 12, 2001 COMPILED FH0M TIIE OBSEHVEH \VIHE SEHVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Embassy has anthrax scare: Th" u.s. 
limbassy in th11 NPtherlands had an anthrax scare Thursday wlwn a packag<' of' whitP pm,v­dPr arrivnd at tlw building. but laboratory tesL-; prov<'d 1wgativf' l'or tlw dPadly bactPrium. "Fwryorw is sal't' and sound," t'mbassy spokn­wornan AngiPr Peavy said. adding that no 01w n'rPivPd nwdiral trnatnwnt. l~arli<'r, Dutch td('­vision n~portt'Cl that three Pmbassy guards were giv<'n antibiotics. 
Paramilitaries carry out massacres: 
Hight-wing paramilitary fighters pulled unarmnd peopln off buses and out or their homes in a soutlwrn village, killing at least 24 nwn aftpr accusing tlwrn of aiding leftist rebels. authoritiPs said Thursday. Tlw massa<TP was one of' S<'Vl'l'al attarks and slayings around the country this \\'t'Pk. most of' them blamed on the outlawPd paramilitaries known as the United Stdf'-lki'PnsP Forrns or Colombia. or AUC. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
School board slammed over pledge: 
Tlw Madison school board has bnen ridirulnd and s,\·ampPd with P-mail and calls aftpr bar­ring tlw pJt,cJg1' of' Alh•gianrP and dPciding "The Star-SpanglPd Bannpr" should b(' play(•d with­out its rnartial lyrics. Board nwmber Bill Keys said tlw board was simply trying to comply ,vith a 1ww stal1' law and protnct tlw rights of stu­d1•nts who didn't want to f'f'1'1 compellPd to n'cill' their loyalty to "01w nation. under (;od." 
Pope remembers attack victims: 
Marking with sp('('ial pray1~r tht' month sincP ll'rror atta<"ks in tlw UnitPd Stall's, Popt' John Paul II on Thursday implorPd God to "uproot ('Vt~!)' trarP ol' rancor, hostility and hatri'd from tlw !wart of' man.. to mak1• way for n•1·oncilia­tion and pPacc>. HPcalling tlw victims of tlw "inhumarw tPrrorist attacks," John Paul said: "Wt• s1~1•k ronsolation and comfort for thnir families and rdativos. prostratn from grief." 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Jailed principal transferred: A l'or­nwr Baptist srhool principal accused of leaving tlw stat(' with an 11-ynar-old girl so lw could hav1• SPX with lwr will b() movPd to a foderal prison in \1issouri for psychological tests. LawyPrs f'or William A. "Andy" !kith. 29. of Burns I!arbor, hav<' indicated they might argue at trial 1wxt year that lw was so mentally r:on­fusPd that hP should not be held responsible fr1r having SPX with a the girl. who has since turned 
12. U.S. District Court Magistrate Andrew Hodovirh ord1~rNi Beith transferred to the U.S. MPdical C:t'nter for Federal Prisoners. 
Market Watch October 11 
Dow 
9,410.45 +169.59 
Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 194 NIA 
AMEX: 834.93 +0.71 NASDAQ: 1701.47 +75.21 NYSE: 565.79 +5.92 S&P 500: 1097.43 +16.44 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +6.77 +2.20 34.70 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +8.65 +1.31 16.46 GLOBAL CROSSING (GX) +41.94 +0.26 0.88 INTEL CORP (INT() +6.29 +1.45 24.51 JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU) +19 .49 +1.46 8. 95 
Bush leads Pentagon memorial 
Associated Press 
WAS! IINC~TON 
The nrnn who struck America one 
month ago "died in vain," President 
Bush said Thursday, plt~dging the mil­
itary will have "evPry resource, every 
weapon, every means" necessary to 
triumph in a worldwide war on ter­
rorism. 
"They will be isolated, surrounded, 
cornered until there is no place to run 
or hide or rest," he said of the al­
Qaida network and terrorists around 
the globe. 
The commander in chief spoke at a sombr.r ceremony at the Pentagon on a day of sunshine as bright as Sept. 11, the date of the deadliest terrorist attacks ever on American soil. The ceremony took place on the opposite side of the Pentagon from where ter­rorists struck one month ago, doom­ing 189 to their deaths. A separate observance was held in New York, where more than 5,000 perished in attacks on the \Vorld Trade Center. 
Bush also reCfiived an update from his Cabind on a broad range of gov­ern men l anti-terrorism activities. including the freezing of $24 million in assets of Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaida network. "I want the terror­ists to know we're after them in all kinds of ways." he said. 
lie urged the Senate to pass his energy plan to make the nation less reliant on foreign oil. The Ilouse passed his package. but thP legislation has stalled sine(~ the Sept. 1 1 strikes. 
VicP Presidr.nt Dick Cheney did not attend the Cabinet meeting. In a sign of continuf'd concern over fresh ter-. rorist attacks. he has been staying at a spcur<' location outside the \VhiW IlousP. 
Hlsewhere, there were signs of recovery. After a swift drop in the days following the attacks. the stock markets stood near or marginally above their pre-attack levels. 
The Dow Jones industrial average was about 200 points below its close on Sept. 1O. having fallen 1.369 points after the attacks. The Nasdaq com­posite and Standard & Poor's 500 indexes traded within points of' their rinses of' a month ago. 
Inside the Pentagon, vvar planners ovf~rsaw the liv(i-day-old aerial attack on terrorist targets in Afghanistan. The skies deemed safe for round-the­dock bombing runs, ofticials said mil­itary targets were being chosen in part on the basis of information pro­vided by the northern alliance forces battling to overthrow the ruling Taliban militia. linked to bin Laden. 
But Gen. Henry Osman, briefing reporters at the Pentagon, said, "Coordination is probably too strong a word." Asked why, he said, "It's in the political side," a reference to the administration's reluctance to become too dose to any of the rival factions inside Afghanistan. 
Outside the Pentagon. machine gun­toting troops stood guard in camou­flage, providing security for a service that drew not only the president and first lady, Laura Bush. but also former President Bill Clinton. dozens of mem­bers of Congress, relatives of the attacks victims and a throng of thou­sands of guests. 
Similar ceremonies were held in New York, where the mighty twin towers of the World Trade Center crumpled after being hit by a pair of hijacked jetliners. There were more deaths that day when a fourth hijacked plane crashed in the Pennsylvania countryside following an on-board struggle between passen­gers and the terrorists. 

The hijackers ··were instruments or evil who died in vain," said the presi­dent. "The terrorists have no true home in any country or culture or faith. They dwell in dark corners of earth and there we will find them," he promised. 
· The Pentagon ceremony \vas a blend of prayer, hymn-singing and speech-making, and included a mournful honor roll of the dead. with names scrolled on video screens for the crowd to see. 
"We remember them as heroes," said Defense Secretary Donald H. Humsfeld. "And we are right to do so." 
Bush's own remarks blended words of praise for the dead, comfort for their survivors, and resolve for the fight ahead. 

Official: Airlines fail inspection 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Inspections in the past week at seven of the nation's 20 highest-risk airports found most airlines are not complying with new federal orders to scan all checked baggage for explo­sives, the Transportation Department's inspector general said Thursday. 
The Federal Aviation Administration directed the airlines in a previously undisclosed order after the Sept. 11 airliner hijackings to make continuous rather than part-time use of their high-tech bomb-detection machines. 
"Despite a recognized need for heightened security. air carriers still are not fully utilizing these machines to the maximum extent possible." Transportation Inspector General Kenneth M. Mead told a Ilouse avia­tion subcommittee hearing. 
At the FAA's request. Mead would not disclose which airports or airlines were inspected. But last week, acting Massachusetts Gov. Jane Swift reas­signed the head of security at Boston's Logan Airport. where two of the hijacked airliners departed. 
FAA Administrator Jane Garvey said Thursday she had just learned of the inspector general's findings and need­ed to examine them further. 
"We need to know more about it," she said. "There's also a question ... if the term· 'continuous' is too ambigu­ous. We have required that it be con­tinuous and we are enforcing it." 
Officials told the subcommittee that before last month's FAA order. the million-dollar-plus bomb detection machines were used only selectively -largely based on responses to a computer•assisted passenger profiling system and for passengers lacking proper IDs or failing a security quiz. 

. 
THE FOLLOWING EVENTS ARE HAPPENING AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE: 
Author Events: 
.. 
Meet Basketball Coaches Muffett McGraw and Mike Brey Friday, Oct. 12 from 11:00 a.m. to 
12:00 p.m. 
Tim Smith will be signing copies of Loyalty-Based Selling on Friday, Oct. 12 from 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. 
John Heisler will be signing copies of Quotable Rockne on Saturday, Oct. 13 from 9:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. 
Charlie Adams, WSBT-TV news anchor and former sportscaster, will be signing copies of I Didn't Know You "Were So Tall! on Saturday, Oct. 13 from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. 
Ted Mandell, ND Professor of Film & Video 
Production, will be signing copies of Heart Stoppers 
and Hail Mary~on Saturday, Oct. 13 from 10:30 a.m. 
to 12:30 p.m~ 
Orlando Menes, ND Professor, discusses his book of poetry Rumba Atop the Stones on Tuesday, Oct. 16 at 
7:00 p.m. 
Musical Event: The Undertones, Notre Dame acappella group, will perform on Saturday, Oct. 13 in the Bookstore one hour following the game. 

HAMMES 

JOYCE CENTER
NOTRE DAME 
FOOTBALL WEEKEND HOURS 
" 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Varsity Shop (in the Joyce Center) 
BOOKS'IORE 
Friday 9:00 am -10:00 pm Friday 9:00 am -5:00 pm 
IN THE ECK CENTER Saturday 8:00 am -10:00 pm Saturday 8:00 am -7:00 pm Sunday 9:00 am -10:00 pm Sunday 10:00 am -2:00 pm
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

Friday, October 12, 2001 
The Observer . NEWS page 7 
U.S. military troops settle in Pakistan, risk attacks 
U.S. military set up shop mando raids or rescue missions
Associated Press 
Thursday on two air bases in inside neighboring Afghanistan. WASHINGTON Pakistan, putting troops in a The move is risky for U.S. Under heavy security, the better position to launch com-troops, but worse for Pakistan, 

Volleyball ~ 
Fri. Oet.12 vs. VIiianova @4PM 

Who will earn bragging rigl1ts? 
D-ORMWARS 

Dorms will accumulate points throughout the match by 
contests and trivia questions. Winning dorm receives: 
* 
Papa John's Pizza Patty, 

* 
gift certificates to Atria Salon, local testaurants, an4 mote..-. 


One student wi{[win a semester of600~ aruf anotfier wi{{win a packJ:iBe of gear 

FIRST 200 STUDENTS GET FR.EE SUBS FROM BLIMPIE Stlillts llllr 111111111 

vii.~ 

military experts said. 
The Americans face possible 
attack from Pakistanis opposed 
to the U.S.-led campaign 
against Osama bin Laden, the 
chief suspect in the Sept. 11 
attacks and believed to be still 
hiding in Afghanistan. 
Pakistan risks political back­
lash from Muslim militants at 
home and from Afghanistan's 
ruling Taliban, who harbor bin 
Laden. 
"The diplomatic aspects are 
much thornier than the mili­
tary," said retired Green Beret 
and CIA officer Michael 
Vickers. 
Getting troops and support as close as possible to Afghanistan is the Pentagon's goal. 
The closer the better, said retired Army Gen. Fred Woerner, former head of the 
U.S. Southern Command. 
But in using Pakistan for raids: "You'd be trading off the danger of political [threat] to the Pakistani leadership in order to achieve improved reaction time," for troops, he said. 
A month after the terrorist attacks against the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, Pakistan acknowl­edged for the first time Thursday that American mili­tary aircraft had landed inside its borders and were using at least two air bases. 
But the issue is so sensitive in the Muslim country of 145 mil­lion people that the government issued a formal denial troops were there, while privately con­firming that they were. 
Islamic religious leaders sym­
pathetic to Afghanistan's 
Taliban rulers have denounced 
both the air attacks and 
Pakistan's support for the anti­
terrorism campaign and plan 
nationwide protests Friday, the 
Muslim day of prayer. 
"It's generally wise to limit the footprint in Pakistan," said Vickers. the former Green Beret now at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. "The areas that are the most useful militarily are the most volatile political­ly." 
Stationed at a distance is the aircraft carrier USS Kitty Hawk. It's in the Indian Ocean and could provide a base for raids by small teams of special forces, although U.S. officials said they would also set up a forward base closer to Afghanistan. 
They would not say where. but U.S. forces have arrived in Uzbekistan as part of this month's deployments as well. 
One of the known Pakistani bases where U.S. forces are setting up operations was Pasni, 180 miles west of Karachi in the far south of Pakistan. 
The other was closer to its border with northern neighbor Afghanistan. It was Jacobabad air base, 300 miles northeast of Karachi. 
At least 15 U.S. military air­craft, including C-130 transport planes, have landed at Jacobabad in the past two days, Pakistani officials and witness­es said. 
Rego 
continued from page 1 
Denny Moore, spokesman for Notre Dame. said it is University policy to inform a dismissed student of dismissal in writing. 
"A person permanently dis­missed receives a letter, so to say [the student] is unaware is simply untrue," Moore said. 
Pienovi said Thursday she was "proud of [Notre Dame] for standing by their decision 
ND-WVIJ 
PllEGA.111~ snc,w 
Get all the info you need about Irish football! 
SATURDAY MORNING 9:30-11:00 
Listen in at 
VWl1Dali1t0a mdlm 
Voice your opinion ­Call 631 -6§00 

and doing the right thing." 
She also urged the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munity to wear white shirts in solidarity at Saturday's foot­ball game. 
"I want to express my deep~ est thanks to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities for supporting me," Pienovi said. "And when they win one for Kori let that mean they win one for all victims of assault." 
Contact Myra McGriff at rncgrO 18 l@saintrnarys.edu. 

page 8 Friday, October 12, 2001
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
-
Sponsored by Jus Vitae 

/ 
r 
Friday, October 12, 2001 page 9
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
New Plan 
continued from page I 
of the dining hall and some 24­hour space, and phase two would include construction of the activity center, which will include the travel agency, year­book and newspaper offices, bookstore, student government offices, coffee shop and post office. 
The construction of a $13 mil­lion dollar classroom building to replace Madeleva is also being proposed. While the original Master Plan aimed to renovate the current building, administra­tors decided last year renova­tions would be too costly, and decided on constructing a new building entirely. 
All together, the two projects have a projected cost of $31.5 million. As of Thursday, the College had collected $13 million in pledges for the student center and dining hall and $5 million for the academic building. 
'The fundraising track is mov­ing along fairly nicely, but we're not quite home yet," Dennis said. 
This weekend's board meeting will be critical to scheduling con­struction dates for the projects. The board will be asked to vote on both financial considerations, approve the schematic design for the classroom building and decide if the dining hall project can be bid to a contractor, Dennis said. 
"We have not established the minimum amount of pledges required before the project goes," said Dennis. "One of the things we are going to ask this week is if $13. million is enough to proceed." 
One consideration on the table would be to issue bonds midway through the project to finance construction, Dennis said. But no final decisions on financing will be voted on until the board's February meeting. 
The first phase construction of the dining hall portion of the stu­dent center and dining hall building will take 14 months, and Dennis hopes to have a groundbreaking date set in April. 
"Architecturally, we'll be ready by April," Dennis said. "We may not be ready financially." 

Waiting for bulldozers 
But while the proposed pro­jects face an uncertain ground­breaking date, the College has completed several steps in the plan. Last fall. the $750,000 Welcome Center was opened alongside the new Clubhouse near the campus' entrance. Regina Hall completed renova­tions to transform the cubicle­sized single rooms to doubles and quads. The College also put an addition on the facilities building and built an additional parking lot alongside Regina Hall. 
Still, dreams of the new class­room building and student cen­ter don't seem yet ready to be realized. In the basement of Madeleva Hall, where a signifi­cant amount of faculty offices 
are housed, some professors are frustrated with the cur­rent office configuration. 
Some departments have offices scattered about the basement and clumped close­ly together, and many offices experience frequent tempera­ture fluctuations. 
Jeff Breese, coordinator for the sociology department, has had three different offices in the basement. In one, the ceil­ing caved in. In another, the temperature was never con­sistent. 
"I had to have my space heater on all summer because it was so cold," Breese said. 
Mark Luttio, a professor in the religious studies depart­ment, shares his tiny office space with another professor. The situation is so bad. he tries to stay out of it, he said. 
"My office is incredibly small, so I don't spend much time down here," he said. 
In the new classroom build­ing, department faculty offices will be located closer together and classrooms will be bigger. But no date is set for the project yet because fundraising has lagged. 
"That fundraising is not as far along because the emphasis has been on the student center," Dennis said. 
To professors like Breese, that makes the new building little more than a dream. 
"It will happen ... but I'll know it when I see bulldozers," he said. 
Laying the first brick 
Even though the bond market is "the best it's been in 30 years," according to Dennis, the College is thinking carefully about using any investments on the project. And after Sept. 11, the economic downturn has raised some concern about fundraising potential. 
"It may have some impact on our ability to get more gifts ... it's a concern of ours," Dennis said. 
Still though, he remains opti­mistic that the project will move forward as planned, and the Board of Trustees will give the go-ahead to move forward today. 
"[These projects] are absolute necessities," he said. "Without them, we're at a competitive dis­advantage." 
But laying the first brick for the project still might be further away than planned. 
"We hope we can break ground on the activity center this spring, but a lot of dominoes need to fall into place,'' he said. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gil10843@saintmarys.edu. 

I£EIMTLEI&'M LA.TE NIG-II'I~ ~II>NIG-IIT ~UNOIIIEM ~A..I>NEMM 
ftny Sandwich or Pizza 
2 for 1 
from midnight to 4am 
• 61 " Big Screen TU 
• "THE CRHSH PHO" 
• 
Clean 6 Comfortable 

• 
Great food 


• fresh fruit Smoothies 
:U:e:i.stI.er~s Iro.-.~ood @ ~ta.,te :Rd 28 Offer expires 10-22-01 

.. ..... .. page 10 Friday, October 12, 2001

The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


It's cold. People need coats. 
You're in a 
ORM. 
OMPETITION 
to bring in the_most coats.· Bring COa ts back from 
ALL .......,,,, REAK. 
Ask your President/Service Commissioner or check out our webpage for details and sponsors at: http://centerforsocialconcems.nd.edu/ProjectWarmth/index.html email: projwarm@nd.edu 
Friday, October 12, 200 I 
The Observer . NEWS page 11 

NOW LEASING 
FOR THE 2.002.-2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 
-2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, &10 
BEDROOM HOUSES -STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS -CLOSE TO CAMPUS -SECURITY SYSTEMS -WELL MAINTAINED HOMES -MANITENANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASHER AND DRYERS 
CONTACT KRAMER (2.19) 298-9673 OR (2.19) 234-2.436 OR (219) 674-2.471 
THE. FRESHEST ITALIAN IN TOWN 

!1, I233;1000I 
Family Owned Tradition 
Fresh Prepared
Original Family Recipes 
Dinners, Pizza 
2.35 S. Michigan St.
Large Groups 
and fb,.e
South Bend, In 4660l
Welcome 
drink selection.
www.catalinos.com 
Dine in/Carry...out Reservations recommended 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S FINEST ITALIAN DINING 
Buy one Dinner, get the second for 1/2. Not valid on Holidays or Notre Dame event. weekends or with other offers. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 
15:Z Hurley Building 
T: 631-5882 
.~
-~;•:r 
;:.,.. 11 
• 

TOLEDO, SPAIN 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Bridget Green, Assistant Director International Study Programs 
U.N. will support Afghan refugees 
repatriation could happen 
Associated Press 
only when there is peace in strife-torn Afghanistan. 
CAIRO, Egypt Afghan asylum seekers ­
A U .N. refugee official said many of whom undergoThursday that member gov­screening to determine if they ernments will help pay for the are bona fide refugees -will return of millions of Afghan not be repatriated if they refugees if the Taliban have been found to have com­regime is toppled by the U.S.­mitted war crimes, he said. led military campaign. Millions of Afghans have 
"Governments will finance fled their homeland in the the return of these people to past two decades, many to Afghanistan and monitor the neighboring Iran and situation on their return from Pakistan. Others sought asy­inside the country," said lum farther afield, including Vincent Cochetel, head of the in Egypt, where some 200 Cairo office of the U.N. High Afghans live. Some 5 million Commissioner for Refugees. Afghans are believed to be 
But Cochetel said voluntary living outside their country. 
fuNivERS1i'YLAIJNiiRY&7 
I TANNING I I 1813 South Bend Ave. I 
lcAMPus sHors. TANNING SPECIALI 
I 10 VISITS FOR $20 WITH COUPON I 
I DROP-OFF LAUNDRY I 
I $.65/LB. WITH COUPON I 
I ($6 MINIMUM) I 
L __ !!!-i~S!V~b!!_1~0!! __ _J 

.1' Wet Your Whistle! 

~ ( and stuff your face) 
DAILY SPECIALS 
Rated #1 Hot Wings ~ in the area 
We Have ESPN College Game Plan and NFL Sunday Ticket 
Come Watch The Games With Us On One OfOur Many TVs! 

Tuesday, October 16, 2001 
5:00 PM 138 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2001 Available on-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
I I ' 
O
THE 
BSERYER 

page 12 Friday, October 12, 200 I 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !lox Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
A'iST, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Ker;y Smith  Pat Perers  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadrer SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer An DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin Wm ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO... ·········· .631-7 47 l FAX................................. ····· .............. .........631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 l -6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME..... ...............631-4541 8USINF-~S OFFICE.. ......................................631-53 l 3 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.............................................'. ...631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. I@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................ .631-4324 
observer.smc. I@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................ .651-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obser11er.11d.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minme forecasts 
weekly smdenr reviews 
advenise for policies 
online features for spe­
and races of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
co meet 1he editors and 
Augus1 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudems of the University of Notre Dame du Llc and Saine Mary's College. Editorial conrem, including advertisements, is noc governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refose advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objenively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent che opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief~ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and departmenc editors. Commencaries, letters and columns presenc che views ofthe amhors and.not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qutsriom regarding Obstr11er policm should be dirra­td to Editor in Chief Mikt Connolly. 
ND.should not delay justice 
Notre Dame ma.de the right decision return this weekend probably would when it decided to uphold its ban of' not have led to a direct confrontation Cooper Hego from campus but it never between the two. However, whether or should have taken this long. not the two vvould have met this week­
When Hego was banned from Notre end is not the issue; it's the undermin-Dame and transferred ing of the integrity of to West Virginia in O Th Notre Dame's justice sys­1998. Saturday's foot­oserver tem that is the greater ball game was· already concern. If students can­scheduled. not rely on the University
Editorial 
to uphold its rulings,
The University knew Hego could return to campus this Saturday. Notre Dame administrators should have contacted West Virginia officials immediately and told them that Rego could not return to campus for the game in 2001. 
But instead they waited. And while they waited, they put Kori Peinovi through even more pain. Peinovi is an alumna and no longer lives in South Bend. Hego's possible 
future victims will be more hesitant to come forward. 
Peinovi, like -anyone else who turns toNotre Dame for justice, should have confidence in the administration to uphold its promises. If the administra­tion tells a victim that it \viii punish an offender, that victim should not have to worry if the administration will go back on its vvord. 
In 1998, Notre Dame expelled and 
banned Hego from campus. Monday, when Denny Moore, Univfffsity director of public relations, spoke on Notre Dame's policy on banned students, he waffled on whether or not banned stu­dents who traveled to campus with a group were still banned. It shouldn't have taken three and a half years for Notre Dame to mako a definitive public statement on the general policy for all banned students , regardless of group affiliation. It is ridiculous that Notre Dame would even consider a different policy for banrn~d students based on their individual or group affiliation. 
If Notre Dame makes a promise, it should stick to its promises. Them shouldn't be months of' debate, specu­lation and stress for the victim. 
It's not just for the victim. It's nol just for Notre Dame. It's not just. 
Questioning America's unity 
Ilow united are we? Americans boast 
that they arc united against our nation's 
aggressors, but many of their actions 
have thus far been less than inspira­
tional. Each of us sees the same tlag with 
its stars and 
stripes. yet our def­
initions of patrio­
tism and freedom 
selfishly omit oth­
ers. 
Unfortunately 
nothing was more 
evident and disap­
pointing than last . Saturday's Notre 
Dame football pre­
game ceremony as 
well as as a 
Catholic mass last 
Sunday in subur­
ban Indianapolis. 
While sitting in 
Notre Dame Stadium last weekend, I was 
moved by the wondPrful tribute the 
University orchestrated for the young 
alumnae who lost her lifo in the World 
Trade Center. Permitting her parents and 
siblings to present the American flag for 
its lift above the stadium brought tears to 
my-eyes. While the announcer listPCI 
other Notre Dame alumni who foll victim 
a month ago, nobody thought to include 
more Americans who were Pittsburgh 
alumni and lost their lives on that fateful 
day. 
What does it mean to be united'? It 
requirns that each of us embrace the rest 
of' us. If we are truly living in a new era 
then we should change our thought 
process to be more inclusive. Had Notre 
Dame included its fellow Big East 
Conference school in the pre-game cere­
mony by merely mentioning the lost Pitt 
alumni, they would have powerfully 
made the statement that everyone at the 
stadium was an equal partner in our 
American family. 
A month ago in New York City emer­
gency response personnel -policemen, 
firemen, medical technicians and other 
good Samaritans -without hesitation 

sacrificed their lives to assist strangPrs. Thos(~ who assisted saw no African­American, Asian-American or llispanic. They saw no Jew or Christian or Muslim. They certainly did not see Pittsburgh or Notre Dame graduates. Hather they extended their hands to all in need in a city that represents just how much of a nation of nations our country has 
become. 
Service to others and freedom to live and worship as we please reminds us that ours is a unique and unparalleled society. It saddens me that I attended a suburban Indianapolis Catholic mass last week that included a General Intercession to pray f<>r our Christian politicians that they may have the \Vis­dom to lead our country. 
Dons that dioct~sn infor that Senator Joseph Lieberman, fornwr Vice Presidential candidatP and an Orthodox Jmv, is excluded from Catholic prayers or is unworthy of public service? Docs it mean that Catholics and self-proclaimed, self-righteous born-again Christians likP Jerry Falwell arc morn worthy to interact with each otlwr'? After all, this is the sanrn Jerry Falw·cll who blamed certain groups, including libPrals, gays, llollywood, womon's rights and abortion supporters for the attacks on our nation. 
Why is my patriotism and tolerance of nvlwything Falwell opposes any less American'! In his syndicated column. "My Answer," Reverend Billy Graham pub­lished a letter in which the writer, an immigrant, said that he had been in the United States for 10 years. He said that people in his school won't make friends and call him names. He concludes with, "I had heard this was a Christian nation and Christians were nice people, but it isn't true in my experience." 
Graham responded by saying that he was saddened by the letter but wantl~d to print it to remind all of us to bc kinder to people from different backgrounds. While being influenced by the Judeo-Christian tradition, Graham contends that we are not a truly "Christian" nation. He says not to judge Christ by a majority of people who may not foll()\,\' him nor think about him and what he should mean in their dailv lives. 
Gi·aham's logic could b<• extendfid to our nation's current surge orstar-struck patriotism. Some blindly follow tlw presi­dent and somc blindly question every presidential decision. Both vimvs are equally American. I am embarrassed to mad this newspaper's lettors to the editor which include alumni p<~rsonally attack­ing students and vice versa over the questioning of government authority. It is reminiscent of my colleg,~ days during the Vif~tnam War when follow stud1mts died in Vietnam. Today's so-callPCI war on tnr­rorists is no diffonmt. 
Bill Maher, host of ABC's "Politically lncmTPct," said that. tlw Unih1d StatPs has bP(m covvards by lobbing cruise missiles. Maher and Falw,~11 am both oqually Anrnrican. What dilforentiatns them is that Malrnr advocatps a "livP and IPt livp'' philosophy while Falwell pwaches tlw "livP likP I tPII you b<~causP that is tlw cor­rect way to live" dogma. 
\,\'110 is more Christian? Probably tlw atlwist l\·1aher. \Vim is financially bmwlit­ing during this timP or u1H:<~rtainty and anxiPty'! Delinitdy Fal\wll. \Vim is morP American? Neither of' the two men. 
Until wn stop thinking of' our diffor­1~ncns and prnforencns. Wl1 \Viii continue to omit our football oppotwnts at prl'­game ceremonies and Pxclude non­Christians in our prayers. Being unit.Pd as a nation is a blessing we share and a bur­den <·mch of us must preserve and prott1ct in the freedom of our hearts. To do less would be to forsake last month's fallen brothers and sisters as well as to aban­don the principles we sePk to enshrine. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre name, '73, sen•ed in President Clinton's administration as a Congressional and Puhlic Affairs Director. llis column appears every other Friday, and his Internet address is Ilottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF POLL QUESTION 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Scene 
Scott Amanda Greco 
..Only peril can bring the french together.
Is the administration unfair to OutreachND by 
Brodfuehrer Graphics 
One can ·c impose unity out ofthe blue on a
not giving the organization official club status? 
Sheila Egts Katie McKenna 
country that has 265 different kinds of
Helena Payne Andy Devoto 
Please e-mail 
cheese."
Sports Production 
observer.viewpoint.1@nd.edu by Friday to 
Katie Hughes Noah A 
report your answer. 
Charles de Gaulle
Viewpoint mstadter 
former French president
Pat Kelly Lab Tech Nellie Williams 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Friday, October 12, 200 I page 13 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Two decisioµs, one administration, and a lot of questions 

Constantlv students and alumni usn this forum to co;nplain about many things that, whi!P they won't affoct world peace. consolP victims of oppression or feed the hungry, am the issues that face the Notre Dame communi­ty -on campus and beyond. I could rage Pnd­lessly about the senseless ticket distribution system (football. U2. O'Neill SYHs), the terrible niforeeing of girls' interhall flag football offi­
dais. the fact that The Observer can't ever get the crossword puzzle right or that student gowrnmcnt is funnier than Befuddlml and Bemused. Yet I've somehow manag1)d to deal with these awful tribulations. However, two recent developments in the decisions of our morally conscious administration do cause me great d1s. trcss. 
First, witness tlw administra­tion's punishment of the ROTC al Notre Damn. Since when was it un-hip to be patriotic, espt>­ciallv at a tinw when America despPrately nrnids to show its tnw colors'! On Sept. 29 the Army HOTC cadets participated in thPir routine training exer­dse. conducted at least once 
. 
· "";_If/: . impossible to train p~op~rly fr~r the J( ,r · run and the rope bndgmg without all necessary items -like one's cam­ouflage uniform, rubber rifle and 
full load of equipment, as well as an area to train (like the spot on St. Mary's Lake near Carroll Hall 
which has been used since Ranger Challenge was created in 1987.) Sadly though, the 
_____ cadets are not allowed to per­form their routine training. Would someone really suggest that the football team practice without pads or artificial crowd noise, that the baseball team practice without gloves, that the band practice without instru-
Army cadeL-; must train for the National Leadership Advanced Camp where they are evaluated and graded on their military devcl­opment. As well. they train for their collegiate competition Hanger Challenge, in which they participate against Hanger Chalh~nge teams from other universities. 
In this competition cadets in 9 and 5 person teams must perform land navigation, rifle marksmanship and 10-K runs with full j b equipment and rope bridging. It is 
each semester since HOTC was ~~'-iMl.llW.tl ments or that our student actors 
founded. Them was nothing out 
of the ordinary or different about 
that weekend's Pvcnts from pre­
vious ynars -battle• drills in the 
woods, some land navigation, 
t1~arn building exercises and leader­
ship development. 
This year tlw HOTC f'aculty, S(~eking 
to give their cadets an (\XCeP,tional 
training opportunity, decided to liven-up 
tlw wet)kend by coordinating for our cadets 
to ride in Blackhawk Helicopters back to Notre 
DamP from their training site. These choppers 
were generously furnished by the Illinois 
National Guard. The cad<~ts relished the 
opportunity to 11y from LeMans Military 
Academy back to the field in front of Holy 
Cross College. At that point the cadets dis­
ntounted th,1ir choppers and formed up for a 
foot march back to Pasqucrilla Center, the 
home of Notre Dame's ROTC programs. 
Th11 American flag and Battalion colors were 
uncasnd as the cadet battalion proudly 
marched across U.S. 31, down Dorr Road, 
around I Ioly Cross Drive and down Juniper 
Hoad, finally arriving at Pasquerilla Center. 
NotrP Dame Security Police provided traflic 
control. which was greatly appreciated. As 
they crossed U.S. :~ I doz(ms of motorists 
bnepod their horns, waved to the cadets, 
shouted supportive words and shm.\1ed their 
patriotism. Furthermore, during their march 
across campus, several people cheered, waved 
and took pictures of the marching Notre Dame ·students. Morale amongst the cadets was 
extremely high; truly those students cxempli­
lied "(iod. Country. Notre Dame." 
Tlw high morale hit rock bottom when the 
battalion arrived back at its home. Notre 
Dame administrators had already called for a 
rrn~eting with the ROTC commanders to dis­
cuss the offonsive and unacceptable behavior 
displayed by the army cadets, specifically: 
marching, singing cadences and wearing cam­
ouflage -how atrocious! 
As a result of that meeting ROTC cadets are 
no longer allowed to sing cadences during 
runs around the lakes. They are no longer 
allowed to wear camouflage at their training 
periods on the campus proper. Also, the 
cadets are forbidden to utilize training aids 
like rubber weapons as they offend and scare 
too many students and administrators. 
and actresses not be given a the­
atcr to perform? Of course not. 
So why punish these Notre Dame 
student-athlete-leaders? 
At this point I wish to take issue 
with the moral majority that is our 
dear administration. In the Oct. 8 
Observer there is the article concern­
ing Cooper Hego and the alleged rape 
that transpired in 1998. 
Here is a person, maybe not formally prosecuted for rape, (as Notre Dame wouldn't dare allow such a spectacle to go outside the Dome) but who was punished as a result of some type of conclusive evidence to support the claim of Miss Picnovi. Yet this morally upstanding, patriotically-condemning adminis­tration of ours is seriously considering his return to campus, despite the ban against him. 
"As an individual, security would ask him to leave, as a group that is something different." This said by the director of Public Relations Denny Moore, the only Notre Dame oflicial who would comment on the impending episode. Yeah. good response -strength in numbers. I guess the HOTC programs just nned more cadets to join. 
I do not use this example to exploit the plight of Miss Pienovi. However. it does serve to showcase the often-contradictory policies of our administration in both instances. Especially because ROTC bailed out Notre Dame during the great wars and Miss Pienovi graciously gave of herself to increase sexual assault awareness at Notre Dame. 
The fact is this administration does an excel­lent job of living in its glass house while cast­ing stones at others. This university has a host of issues to contend with, however, no one of any real substantial importance is in tune with any of them. Perhaps if Mr. Kirk weren't spending all his time in the Green Field on Saturday mornings ticketing tailgating stu­dents who aren't affecting anyone but them­selves then maybe he'd have a better idea. The words "God, Country, Notre Dame" are engraved over a doorway at the Basilica. I now realize why those words do not hang over any door into the Golden Dome. 
Geoff Heiple 
class of'Ol Oct. 11, 2001 
Sometimes doctors get very frus­trated when patients don't seem to get it. Take the overweight man with heart problems who will con­tinue to decline in health until he loses weight and lowers his 
cholesterol Stephen Carroll 
but he never 
listens. Take 
·the drug A Medical 
addict who Perspective 
shows up in 
the 
Emergency Hoom at least twice a 
week who will not kick the habit 
unless he gets put away and into a 
treatment program. And the list 
goes on... 
In each case the doctor provides compassionate medical care, often without passing judgment on tht~ patient. Do you know how hard that is sometimes? Sometimes I've come very close to shaking my patients and saying "What the heck were you thinking for ___ (fill in the blank), but I don't. It's not the doctor's place to do things like that, even if he wants to do so. 
I was working in the Emergency Room one day and a nurse asked me to do a 12 lead EKG, a job which I perform about a dozen times during a typical eight hour shift. As I wheeled the machine into the room, I see a man in his early 30's talking to his young daughter. "It'll be OK sweetie. Go outside with my friend while daddy gets checked out." The daughter hugs her dad and then leaves. 
The man is visibly anxious but otherwise looks line. I usually get to talking to the patient while I'm attaching the electrodes to their chest to put them at ease but I don't have to for this one. Before I can say anything he starts talking. 
"Man, I really messed up. I smoked a whole bowl of coke yes­terday and now my heart is rac­ing. I can't let my ex-wife find out or else she'll take away my daugh­ter. What will happen?" he asks. 
"Uh .. .l don't know. I'm sure you'II figure something out." ] said, stumbling over my words. I continue setting up the machine and I run the EKG in silence. 
In my mind I'm thinking, "What the heck are you thinking, doing 
drugs with a child in your house! 
Of course they should take your 
daughter away from you! Are you 
stupid or something? What if she 
finds daddy's cocaine stash and 
has some! Ever thought of that?! 
What if you shoot up one day and 
daddy ends up dead of a drug 
overdose, what will your daughter 
think then?" I envision myself 
shaking him up and down to drive 
home my point. 
When you choose to mess up 
your own life then what you do is 
your own business. When you 
endanger the life or future well­
being of a child it really gets to 
me. Of course I did not carry out 
what I was thinking but some­
times I think I should have. Yet I 
did my job-providing quality med­
ical care without passing judg­
ment or telling him what I really 
thought. 
What doctors often find is that you don't get to pick and choose the patients and problems you deal with. You learn that you will have to keep yourself from passing judgment on your patients or try­ing to unfairly coerce them into doing what you think is the right thing, even if it is in the patient's best interest. 
As far as the case I mentioned I never did find out what happened to the man or his daughter since my shift ended soon after that. That's the way it is in the Emergency Boom; you often can't follow your patient's care all the way to discharge. Standard proce­dure would have involved notify­ing social services but anything can happen from there. I can only hope that the daughter ended up okay and is not living with her father. Sometimes that is all you can do: hope. 
Steve Carroll is a sophomore biology major. He is certified as an Emergency Medical Technician and a firefighter in Pennsylvania. His future plans include going to medical school and becoming an Emergency Room doctor or a trau­ma surgeon. He can be reached at carroll. 52@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
/"""\lHE
vnSERVER 



page 14 Friday, October 12, 2001 Friday, October 12, 2001 


Kegs'n'Eggsto -·~ start your day. 
Earn .two-­
. ···Ji;!·, 
beverages:,;~•',•-~. 

Wake to a warm, wet bed. 
Lose a turn. 
line. Proceed to soccer field. 



:J=xchange beer . for soda, avoid ·· 
post-game hangover. Advance two  ·.· ··  
squares.  

• 

•
• 






Jose Cuellar 
Wake· to a nice, coof --.~ beverage waiting by your bedside. 
Hit snooze. 



Lose a turn. 

Jose Cuellar 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

campus
Friday, October 12, 2001 
page 15 

Cut out these beverage$ 
"I_~
!-cauQftt~,anating 
t ... 
.. ,; 
.. 
·.; \ 

....·~een~P9fK~d carsfw;s ... '<, .·.·• 
_J. • 
' f 
Uhtil '/b 


and C. Spencer Beggs , 



. . 
ihis or her icon at Start. ::I ~Rlayer with the highest 
1
~ by the player witfi t he 
:· : 
Je before Ws or her turn1 ~e the n~mber of spacesl 
t _}\\:ww-·,jJ@riWf' _ _ } 
· ~~g, five" te.fres.bmen >· :cJ
le:rr;:ra·, -'~~;h~ 
~e rollsNa fiye"t Ilr1!he die. J 
( 7~ l 
Spill beverage on opposing team's fans "by accident." Retreat four spaces and lose one 
·. :.G·o straight to Reslife Land. 
-
e 
• 
e 
-
e e 
·i:~;~;<frisk¢o_lly·:~ 
.. 
~$t~diiJrrfs~curi~J ~•· ",•~>Lose all ~· ' ~fleV0ragJ$-and 
return ,to start. 
r-----==-----__;_­
Transcend corporeal existence. Acheive tailgating 
,_., 

Friday, October 12, 2001
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 

Women 
continued from page 1 
going to be a challenge for her but it's one I think she's really looking forward to." 
Haney, who learned to lead watching Ivey the 'past two seasons, appeared confident as she described her role on the team. 
"One of the most important things for me is to be a leader on this team and to show the younger people what it takes to get to \Vhere we were last year,"llaney said. "I think that'll be my biggest role on the court, to show more than tell people what to do." 
Haney's leadership should prove cru­cial as the Irish adapt to a new, faster­moving offense. Tlw slow, half-court game in which the Irish exploited Riley's ability to score around the bas­ket and create shots for others is now history. This year's team will run and shoot, taking advantage of the ski1ls of junior Alicia Ratay, the team's new go­to player. 
"She is the person that we want to go to in situations where we really need to score,"McGraw said of the 6-1 Ratay, who set the NCAA record for 3-point percentage last season. "She's willing to accept that role and because of that she has the respect of the whole team." 
The defensive pressure on Ratay will be greater than ever before, as teams no longer have to put to defenders on the nation's best center. 
"I don't expect to get as many open shots as I did last year,"Ratay said. "Ruth got triple-teamed, she was a great passer." 
McGraw noted that Ratay spent the summer working out in the weight room and playing pickup games against male players to prepare for the season. 
One of the unanswered questions for the Irish is how the team will sort out its point guard position. Ivey played nearly 40 minutes at the point every game last year, not leaving until the game was well in hand. 
Sophomore Le'Tania Severe is expect­ed to eventually take over the position, but classmate Jeneka Joyce exhibited strong ball-handling skills. turning the ball over only 14 times in 403 niin utes. 
"[Joyce isl just so smart with the ball and has such a good head for the game,"McGraw said. "Le'Tania is not quite as poised right now but certainly has improved tremendously. I think both or them will see some time at the point. It will eventually be Le'Tania's job but I think Jeneka will kind of help her get started." 
Joyce was even more confident in Severe's abilities. 
"I think Le'Tania is going to be very good at the point,"Joyce said. "Nobody's seen her play because she's been hurt. She's in very good shape now. She had the whole~ off-season working on her game." 
In the front-court. junior Amanda Barksdale is expected to take Riley's starting spot at center. Barksdale was the team's Most Improved Player last season, ranking third in the Big East with l.7 blocked shots per game despite averaging only 8.2 minutes on the court per contest. 
Freshmen Flecky and Batteast com­pete for the power forward spot vacated bv Siemon. Batteast, a South Bend native, adds shooting skills and eventu­ally could replace Haney at the No. 3 spot. But right now, she will contribute on the boards. 
"I think the thing we're looking from her the most probably is rebounding,"McGraw said. "That's her greatest strength; it's our biggest weak­ness. That's going to be her role initially is to really help us out on the boards." 
Flecky, from Colorado, adds a shoot­ing touch to a fast game that has been compared to Siemon's. 
"She can step outside and play in the post," McGraw said. "She's somebody that's very aggressive going to the bas­ket. She's a good rebounder." 
The Irish open with a preseason game 
on Nov. 6 against the Ohio Girl's 
Basketball Magazine team at the Joyce 
Center. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter.l@nd.edu. 

Men 
continued from page I 
very clear," said Brey. "To talk about that long haul of being consistent, we didn't understand it until it was in the bank last year." 
In Big East play last year, the Irish won 11 of 15 games, including an eight-game winning streak in January and February. 
This year's Irish are a different team, with different players and different expectations. But this y1:1ar's Irish are more experienced and they have the same goals. How that experience helps them will remain to be seen. 
"We've never been in this situation before," Graves said. "We've never won a championship, so we'll see how we rnact to it. I think we'll react very well." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cencs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

LOST & FOUND  Nice homes next school year north of ND. Great area. 277-3097  In-home nanny needed to care for infant on Monday and Wednesday afternoons. Must have transporta­tion. Experience with infants and  Selling Varsity Club time share 1 .soph. wk. $9,500 272-1753  Need 1 Tennessee ticket Contact Scott at 634-4946  Spring Break with STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on campus earn cash and.free trips. Info/Reservations  
IF YOU LOST A COWBOY HAT AT  LOOKING FOR A ROOMMATE TO  references required.  Contact Dr.  Fifty-five gallon fish tank ­ solid  U2 TIX 1 FLOOR TICKET CHICA­ 1-800-648-4849  
LAFAYETTE ON FRI, CALL 246­9313  SHARE A 2-BDRM APT IN TUR­TLE CREEK FOR 2ND SEMES­ Knoedler: 631-4264 or aknoedler@nd.edu  oak Cabinet ­all equipment ­presently set up for salt water fish.  GO OCT. 15 BEST OFFER  www.ststravel.com  
TER  $1200 new• $300 or best offer.  287-9342  $300-$800 Scholarships  
CALL HILLIARY 243-1840 OR  Fun promotional jobs  631-6955 or after 6pm 272-6414  Available per semester!  
FOR RENT  EMAIL HBURN@ND.EDU  $10/hr to give away cool new prod­ucts promogirl .com  Outgoing, energetic individual need to babysit 2 children, 5 and 2, Fri.  PERSONAL  Looking for a job which lets you work around your school schedule? We have several part-time and full­ 
HOMESFORRENTNEARCAM­PUS mmmrentals.com email: mi:nmrentals@aol.com  ROOMS AVAILABLE AT THE SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT NOVEMBER 15-18, NOTRE DAME VS. NAVY WEEKEND. ROOMS BLOCKED FOR AN ND CONFER­ BLACK FEMALE SEEKING SAME FOR ROOMMATE. CASTLE PT. $350 + DEPOSIT. 271-7195.  eve. 10/19 and sat. during game 10/20. Call 937 294 4857 TICKETS  SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations. including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and  time day & evening positions paying $7-$11/hr. We offer the following: ·scholarship money 'Flexible Schedules  
ENCE, EXTRAS AVAILABLE. FOR  Free trips available.  *Paid vacations/holidays  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms with private baths, $80-$115. Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418; 9487  MORE INFORMATION PLEASE CALL BARB HERB AT 312-243­4244 (X4192) Bed 'n Breakfast near ND for grad. weekend. Wild Irish Rose Inn. 219­277-4303 www.irishroseinn.com  FOR SALE For sale: '97 Ford Taurus. Excellent condition. Power locks, steering, ale. $6,300 O/B/O 1-616-663-8422  TICKETS 277-6619 or 273-3911 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  www. EpicuRRean.com 1-800-231-4-FUN WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun. the Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan FOR FREE1 To find out how, call 1 •  'Optional Saturdays *Health/Life/401 (k) •Incentives/Raises ·supervisory/Mg!. Positions 1-(888) 801-JOBS jobs@americallcorp.com Just minutes north of campus  

 Nikon 6006 Camera Body.  Recent  A.M. 232-2378  888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun­ Fraternities·sororities·c1ubs·s1ude  
3 br 2 ba ranch parklike yd all appl $1200 mo patti grice century 21  overhaul by Nikon. 7818  $300 Call 631­ P.M. 288-2726  coastvacations.com  nt Groups Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester  
.J  Jim McDunfee 235-3062 For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house. 3 blks. from ND. Garage avail. 233­2104 B&B 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS 247-1124  WANTED Wanted: Babysitter with own trans­portation, for 1 ·2 children in our home, close to campus. Flexible hours. 277-1037 The Coffee Spot Cafe on Bendix near Cleveland Rd. Part-time work available. Gourmet  Northsore Condo. 1428 Marigold way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen with appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254-1772 Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bah, LR, DR & kitchen with appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254­ ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M. -232·2378 P.M. -288-2726 ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. 232-0964. WANTED • ND TICKETS 289-9280  Spring Break Insanity! WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM or call 1-800-327-6013 Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti­nations! Fifteen years experience! Wanted: Representatives and orga­nizatoins, earn top $$$, build your resume SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and Parties with the Best DJs and  with the easy campusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising event. Does not involve credit card applications. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today! Contact campus­fundraiser.com at 888 923-3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com Myra rocks. Don't forget, noon. We're so there.  
Coffee Shop. Call 273-2931  1772 for more info.  Buying some/ Selling a few extra N.D. Football Tickets.  celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to  Thus ends another exciting week of The Observer.  
Lodging • Bed and Breakfast, 45 minutes from Notre Dame. T&A INN Between the lakes. PH (616) 244-9084 www.innbetweenthelakes.com  Babysitting 1 ,5, 7 yr. olds 12· 15 hours/wk flexible hrs 271-0766  BMW 94 325i, 4dr, green, loaded, 1 owner, all records, $11,000 289­4082  219-289·8048. Have 3 pair of USC tix. Need Tenn. Tix. Let's talk. 901-332-6735  StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293­1443 or email sales@studentcity.com to find out more.  Lauren and Adrienne. I want a fin­ger puppet. Come see PPV in 103  


\ , • ' ,I 
' '
, 
Friday, October 12, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Spectacular Introductions Team ScrimmagesSlam Dunk Contest zooperstars 
Contests, Giveawavs, Airline tickets, adidas Apparel T-shirts &More! 
-~!Vltlony7iaw/ South Bend 'fribune 

page 18 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Sorin, O'Neill fight for playoff lives 
,­
~ ~ 
', ) 
\ 
\ 
.. 
' 
\ 
' 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
" 
., 
~ 
\ 
\ 
\ ' 
\ 
\ 
\ ~­
\ 
\ 
\ 
' \ ' \, 
' 
' 
\ ' 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ \ \. 
' 
,, 
\ 
.. 
" 
\ 
\, 
\ 
\ 
\ 
<, 
\ 
\ 
\ 
'I, 
) 
~ 
),
'I: 
\ 
) 
~ 
\_ 
' 
~ 
\, 
'i 
~ ~ 
~ 
s' 
~' 
' ~ I 
~. 
I 
{ l 
I ~ 
1. 
,.,f
~ 
;~ 
,,
' 
' 
( 
~ 
! 
; 
( 
1 
I 
·,,­
i 
I 
Friday, October 12, 200 I
The Observer . SPORTS 

WELCOME PARENTS!! 
Concerned or have questions about off campus housing? 
Come visit TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS, the students' #1 choice in offcampus housing. 
With advantages such as: Being the closest to campus Being an all student property, 
Your student is sure to one ofthe best offcampus living experiences with us! 
We have office hours on Saturday froin 10am•5pm, so come see us before or after the game to see what we have to offer you! 
Turtle Creek Apartments P: 227-8124 F: 272-8204 Visit us on the web at www.TurtleCreekND.com 
COME TO PAPA 
I , FOR DINNER 
't.J {. 
Join us for dinner and enjoy generous portions of
\
\\ •.. 
Italian entrees and pastas like:
~\ 
~..-:,~~~-~­
(.,~ ...... • Shimp Farfalle \ Chicken Parmesan
\ • 
• Salmone alla Grig!ia Sizzlelini®
• 
• 
Chicken Scallopini 

• 
Shrimp Ravioli 


And remember, Papa recommends that you complement your meal with out delicious appetizers. desserts. and wines. 
Fantastico! 
;>~~IAN ~ 
I 
TCHEN 
A Celebration ofGreat Taste. 
I 
MISHAWAKA 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 
219-271-1692 
RESERVATIONS ACCEPTED HOURS: Sunday. Thursday 11:00 a.m. -10:00 p.rn. Friday -Saturday 11 :00 a.m. -11 :00 p.m. 
By MATT DeNICOLA 
Sporrs Wrirer 
With four total games and four playoff spots, wins during the regular season games in interhall football are crucial. 
In order to make the playoffs, a team needs at least two wins. Both Sorin 0·1) and O'Neill O· 
2) are shy of this mark. While Sorin has two games remaining during this final week, and thus the luxury of being able to lose one, O'Neill is facing a must win situation. 
"We have been focusing on offense." said O'Neill team member John Enterline. "That has been slow for us over the last few games." 
O'Neill plans to vary their plays. involving both passing and running plays. This means that tight end Kyle Johnson and backs Nate Schomas and Phil Irvine will all see a lot of action. 
"We have to mix stuff up a lit· tie," said Enterline, "and keep from running the same play over and over." 
As important as it is to focus on offense, O'Neill is also work· ing on defense. Sorin has scored 40 points in two games this season. "They have a good passing offense," said Enterline. "We know they can score points." 
These preparations are a key aspect of O'Neill's attack. But, an even larger part is their knowledge that this is a must win game. "Obviously, we need to win to get into the playoffs," said Enterline. "So we are going to play all out." 
The Otters don't need to worry about the playoffs as much. With only two season games thus far, Sorin's situation is not quite as immediate. The Otters cannot be eliminated from the playoffs•in tomorrow's game, although a win could make a spot in the playoffs virtually secure. 
"This is going to be a tough game," said Enterline. "We arc just going to have to work our butts off." 
Contact Matt DeNicola at mdenicol@nd.edu. 
Love A and the Gang 


El Paso, Texas/ Ciudad Juarez, Mexico Jan.3-8,20O2 THEO 371 
• 
Interested in immigration across the Mexican border? 

• 
Want tot. 1erience faith from an alternative perspective? 

• 
Interested in the global effects ofconsumerism? 

• 
Want to do something other than sit around during winter break? 


Try the Border Issues Seminar. More info. at the CSC. 
ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS UNTIL OCTOBER 15, 4:00P.i\f 
i 
I 
J, 

Friday, October 12, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
AMERICAN LEAGUE DIVISONAL SERIES 
Hudson sends Yankees to brink of elimination 
to one hit in the first five behind Seattle, got just enough Mariners have amassed during
Associated Press 
innings. then escaped jams in offense to beat Andy Pettitte. their remarkable season, none the sixth and seventh. Pettitte, like Roger Clemens meant nearly as much as No. 1 I ludson allowed six hits in all during Oakland's 5-3 win in of the playoffs.
NEW YOHK 
before Jason lsringhausen took Wednesday's opener, struggled "There was a lot of pressure
Another night of' stellar pitch­
over to star the ninth. without his best stuff and had for us to get a victory," third
ing, this time by Tim Iludson, 
Bf~rnie Williams doubled off only one 1-2-3 inning before baseman David Bell said.
moved Oakland within a win of 
the glove of third baseman Eric departing in the seventh. But "Going to Cleveland down 2-0
ending thP New York Yankees' 
Chavez leading off and Tino the A's were O-for-8 with run­wouldn't have been good."
latost dynasty. 
Martinez walked. ners in scoring position, leaving Jamie Moyer and the
Hudson overwhelmed the 
But lsringhausen recovered, them at O-for-19 in the series. Mariners handled their biggest
Yankees for eight innings, Hon 
throwing a called third strike Power had proved the differ­game this season -and the
Gant homered and the brash. 
past Jorge Posada and retiring ence thus far, with the A's scor­Indians -just like they've done
young Athletics held off New 
David Justice and Brosius on ing four of their six runs on since April.
York 2-0 Thursday night to 
popups for his second save of home runs that led off innings. Moyer took a shutout into the
h(~ad honw with a 2-0 lead in 
thn series. · Eleven of Oakland's 19 hits in seventh inning and Seattle
tlwir AL Division Series. 
These are the types of the two games have gone for scored four runs before making
After lH~coming only tlw 
October games New York has extra bases. an out in the first as the
fourth team to win thnrn 
won in recent years, but age Hudson and Game 1 winner Mariners evened their AL
straight World Series titles, the 
showed against the A's, Mark Mulder have neutralized Division Series at one game
Yankees must wi'n three 
unafraid of the Yankees' suc­the Yankees' central run pro­apiece Thursday with a 5-1 win
straight games to reach the AL 
cess, mystique and rabid fans. ducers. O'Neill and Brosius are over the Indians.
Championship Series. 
After two-out singles by hitless in the series while "This was as close to a must­
Oakland, beaten 3-2 by the 
Chuck Knoblauch and Derek Williams and Justice have one game win as you would want to
Yankees in last year's Division 
Jeter put two on in the sixth, hit each. be in," Mariners manager Lou
Series, has won eight straight 
ll udson worked the count full Johnny Damon, 6-for-9 in the Piniella said. "This was a game
over Nevv York going back to 
on Paul O'Neill, the emotional series, gave the A's some we wanted to have, and Jamie
tlw n'igular season -and the 
backbone of the Yankees' breathing room in the ninth got it done."
Yankees haven't led in their 
through their championship when he tripled down the right­The 38-year-old Moyer, who
last 76 innings against the A's. 
yPars. But. with the crowd of field line off Mariano Rivera won a career-high 20 games
After surviving a ninth-inning 
56,684 on its feet, O'Neill didn't and came around when during the regular season and 
scare. tlw A's head to a ball­
come through in the clutch this Brosius, who earlier made a beat Cleveland twice, allowed
park where they won their last 
time, instead lofting a harmless spectacular backhand play to five hits and one run in just the
17 home games of the regular 
11yout to shallow center. throw out Jermaine Dye, second postseason appearance
season. Barry Zito {17-8). 
Singles by Martinez and missed Jason Giambi 's of his 14-year career.
another of the left-handers who 
Justice gave New York runners grounder to third with the In 1997, he was forced out of
have given the Yankees diflicul­
at the corners with two outs in infield in. his only playoff start with a
ty this year, starts for the A's 
the seventh. After a mound visit Brosius snapped his head in strained elbow and last season 
on Saturday against Mike 
by Oakland manager Art Howe, frustration, which this year he missed a chance to pitch in
Mussina ( 17-11 ). 
Hudson got Brosius to hit an seems to be replacing success October when he broke his
Hudson, backed by Gant's 
easy grounder to second for a as the Yankees' buzzword. kneecap during a simulated
fourth-inning homnr and a 
forceout. game before the ALCS.
ninth-inning run on an error by 
The A's, whose 102-60 record Mariners 5, Indians 1 "Getting to the playoffs
Scott Brosius. held the Yankees 
was second-best in baseball Of the 11 7 wins the Seattle healthy, getting through a 
Seriously funny stuff. 
game healthy, and winning a 
playoff game is a dream come 
true," Moyersaid. 
Mike Camc-:iron and Edgar 
Martinez hit two-run homers in 
the first off losing pitcher 
Chuck Finley and Bell added a 
solo shot for the Marinc-:irs, who 
refused to panic after losing 
Game 1. 
Another loss at home, and Seattle would have been in jeopardy of having its AL record-setting, 116-win season end pn}maturely. But as they did in winning the West by 14 games, the Mariners opened an early lead and never looked back. 
"Today, I think we proved how resilient we've been," Cameron said. "They had all the emotions going in their direction." 
For the second straight game, the Mariners managed just six hits. But this time, three homers gave them five runs. 
"We've taken control of a lot of games like that this year," Moyer said. "Guys felt like they needed to do a little bit more, and we were able to do that." 
David Bell, the only Mariner with two hits in Game 2, hits a solo homer in the fifth inning. 
Following an off-day on Friday, the best-of-five series resumes Saturday at Jacobs Field in Cleveland. Indians rookie C.C. Sabathia, who didn't face the Mariners this season, will start against Aaron Sele. 
appeared on 
HBO's Comic Relief MTV's Half Hour Comedy Hour 
and 
Comedy Central 

stand-up comic 
Buzz Sutherland 
Today! October 12th 
10:00 p.m. 
LaFortune Ballroom 
free food free drinks free admission 
www.nd.edu/~sub 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 12, 2001 
MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Knights look to start run against Dawgs 
By JOE HETTLER and MATT FURRIE 
Sports Writers 
Around this time last year. Keenan's in terhall footbal I team was hitting its stride on their way to the championship. 
This year the Knights hope to do the same. 
"Last year we were in the same boat," said co-captain and lineman Brian Morlok. "We lost to Dillon pretty good in the second week of the year, but we came back and got better each game and carried that into the playoffs then made it to the finals and won it all." 
For that to happen again this year. Keenan must first beat 2­1 Alumni. 
"We both try to play a power game," said Morlok. "Ir they run up the middle on us then they're going to be able to do whatever they want. \Ve have to establish our running game as well. We need our offensive line to step up this week." 
Alumni co-captain and line­man Nick Linstroth agrees that the team whose offensive line plays better should win the game. 
"This week W(~ just have to dominate the line of scrim­mage," said Linstroth. 
"When our offensive line is trying and on their game, there's nobody that'sgoing to stop us." 
Linstroth is confident that 
··••.wNr,•,-•.••-.,_,_.,.<,,,.,,_•_o_«•.•-•., "··,, 
Alumni has the best team this Sunday to make the playoffs. season. Unfortunately for the 
"[We can gol as far as we Manorites, th<~ir lineup is filled want to in the playoffs," said with injuries and they're facing Unstorth. "No one can beat us undefeated Dillon. as long as we want to win." "We have a lot of injuries 
Despite this prediction from right now. so we're going to Linstroth. Keenan looks to win need a lot of young guys to step Sunday by continuing to up," said Morrissey defensive improve, especially on offense. end Matt Houlihan. 
"Our defense has been one of Despite the injuries, Houlihan 
o u r says the strengths, Manorites will
"When our offensive line 
besides in stick to the same
is trying and on their
the Dillon game plan they've game," said game, there's nobody used all season. Morlok. "We just have to
that's going to stop us...
"But offen­play better foot~ sively we've ball and eliminate been get­Nick Linstroth the mistakes," ting better Alumni captain said Houlihan. each game "We've had a lot \Vhich is of penalties at what we have to do to be suc­times and that been hurting cessful." our offense, so eliminating 
Because Keenan has pro­those will really improve our gressed each week, Morlok offense." feels they can still contend for On the other hand, Dillon will the championship. try to stay focused this week on 
"If we keep improving, I think winning and not looking past we have a decent shot at mak­Morrissey. ing a run," said Morlok. "We just have to come out 
Linstroth also believes that and be ready to play every Alumni has yet to reach their v,:eek," said Dillon co-captain peak. and quarterback Tayt Odom. 
"We've shov,·n moments of "We can't slack off any week or greatness, but we haven't someone's going to knock us played four quarters yet," said down because everybody's gun­Linstroth. "So I'm excited to see ning for us." what we can do when we put Dillon has used a power run­four quarters together." ning game_ led by a strong 
offensive line to move the ball
Morrissey vs. Dillon 
against their opponents.
Morrissey's 1-2 interhall foot­
"[The offensive line] is the
ball team has to win this 
key to us winning from here on out," said Odom. "If they can keep playing like they have 
been, hopefully, things will go well for us."
"Jtast and } ..al>t~}...<?,~i~" 
Dillon also hopes to fine tune
('bromcle 
some aspects of their game, field goal attempt resulted in a especially their defensive broken play game-winning backs. touchdown pass by the Knights. 
"We'd like to play a little bit As for Stanford, it has fought better pass defense than .we hard all season, but is winless have, but overall we've played and has already been eliminat­a solid defense," said Odom. ed from the playoff picturn. In 
The Manorites will rely on their last game, the Griffins had their defense to keep them in to face tc>p-ranked Dillon and this week's gam<i and then received a 35-0 trouncing, their hope their offense can make a worst loss of the season. big play. "We don't want to be 0-3," 
"We're playing pretty good said Stanford captain Dave defense right now, but our Dilworth. "But we've got to deal offense is struggling and that's with where we arc right now." definitely a weakness," said Losing is never nasy to deal Houlihan. with, but ending the season on 
Od~>m hopes his team can a winning note is a good way to stick to their game build for plan and continue next sea­
"We don't want to be 0-3 
to improve their son. And 
overall game. but we've got to deal with with the 
"We just want to where we are right now." amount of get better than you th on what Wf~ were last t h e i r
Dave Dilworth
week," said Odom. squad, it "Wf~ can execute Stanford captain C O U J d better and not prove to bP have as many mis-quite bem~­cues and screw-ficial. ups, then hopefully things will "We just have to come out go well again." and control the ball," said 
Dilworth. "Tlwn I think we can
Keough vs. Stanford 
put some points on the board."
In interhall l'ootball, making 
Controlling the ball against
the playoffs is everything. 
Kcough's defense has been
When the Keough Kangaroos tough all season, and with theand the Stanford Griffins face extra motivation. it will be evenoff this Sunday, playoff implica­tougher.
tions are on the line. 
Keough will decide its own
If the Kangaroos win, they 
fate. When playoffs roll around,have a shot at a possible berth, 
this game will dctf~rmine
but if they lose, they are math­
whether they are nut in the
ematically eliminated and their field playing or watching fromseason is finished. Keough, cur­the sidelines. 
rently 1-2, can break even on the year with a win against the struggling Stanford squad. 
Contact Joe Hettler at het­
In their last performance. the 
tler.l@nd.edu and Matt Furrie'at 
Kangaroos fell 13-7 to a: tough 
· mfurrie@nd.edu
Keenan team after a botched 
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building 
Notre Dame, IN -,.-~ ,..__ 631-5882 . --f' '>
•'>';;
;;.,,tr 
--,. ., ~ .... 
.... 
.$ 
2002-03 Academic Year 
.. 
.. 
BERLIN 

2002-03, Fall '02 and Spring '03 
Information Meeting with Professor Hannelore Weber 
Monday, October 15, 2001
Broadway Theatre league Presentation 
118 DeBartolo
October 18-19, 2001 
4:30 pm
For tickets and information Call 234-4044 
Application Deadlines: Innsbruck: Dec.1,2001
Toll Free 1-877-31 5-1234 
Berlin: Dec. 1, 2001 for F '02
Student, senior, and group discounts available tor al 
and All Year 2002-03 
.___ .____ .. .... Morris Performing Arts Cent 
Questions??? Weber.15@nd.edu Applications: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 

,. 
Friday, Octoher 12, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21­
·HocKEY 
. 
Dutch ice Irish in season opener 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Spom '~v'rircr 
Thursday night it was tlw Dutch vs. tlrn Irish in the north donrn of' the Joycf~ Center. But this wasn't Western Europ(~an socc1\r. lt was the home opener for the Notre~ Dame hockey team. The Union College Dutchman defeated the Irish 2­1 in the non-conforence opener for both teams. 
The Irish looked for a fresh start after last year's cam­paign. Notre Dame went 10­22-7 on their way to an 11th place finish in the CCIJA. Tht~ Irish missed the CCHA playofls last year for the lirst tinw since the 1995-9(> campaign. 
NotrP Dame head coach Dave Poulin pulled a bit of a surprise at the beginning of the game. Starting in net for tlw Irish was frf)shman Morgan Cey. Cey beat out Senior 
.Jernmiah Kimento and Junior 
Tony Zasowski in thP prnsea­
son to lw the Irish goaltend1~r. 
Thi~ first period was quiet for both l<'atns. Them were three penalties, one by Union Col legii, and two by Notre Dame. Neither team was able to score though. with Union holding a 13-6 shot advantage over the Irish. Penalties were a concern for Notre Dame all night. 
"\Ve addressed a lot of our concerns in the off-season," Poulin said. "Discipline was one of those areas. The people taking penalties on our team are the lcadnrs, and thev need to work on that." · 
The second started much like the first period. The teams traded penalties during the first five minutes of the period. It was a mistake by Ccy that lead to the first scoring oppor­tunity of the game for Union. 
\,Yith the teams playing four on four hockey, Cey came out of' the goal to try and pole the puck out of the Notre Danrn 
zone. 
Instead he poked it right to Union College defrrnsemen Dagenais. Cey was out of posi­tion, and Dagenais put the puck in the open net to give Union a 1-0 lead. 
Union struck again with 2:45 left in the second. A defensive breakdown gave the Dutchmen a thre1>. on two rush into the Notre Dame zone. Junior left winger Jeff' lluchins got the puck and was able to beat Cey to give Union a 2-0 lead. 
The third period saw Notre Dame increase the offensive pressure. The Irish took a lot of shots on the goal in an effort to get a score, out shooting the Dutchmen 7-2 in the first 10 minutes of the period. 
With 10 minutes left in the 
third, Notre Dame had a gold­
en opportunity to score when 
Irish defenseman Tom Galvin 
had a point blank shot right in 
front of Union goalie Brandon 
Snee. Snm~ canrn up with the 
glove save that not only kept 
the Irish scoreless, it also took 
away any momentum Notre 
Damp had built up in the third. 
The Irish finally broke through with just 51 seconds left in the game. David Inman was able to deflect a pass from Hob Globke past Snee tu cut the Union lead to 2-1. It was too little too late, and Union was able to kill off the rest of the time for the victory. 
"We had our chances offon­sively," said Poulin. "\,Ve tried to make the game too complex. We played our best when we made simple plays." 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu. 
Aperfect meeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday firring 
ND. Home Football Weekends. 
Everyone Welcome 
Live Music Fridays, 2 -
6p.m. 
Grilled Burgers, Brats, and Other Specialties Cold Beverages & Spirits 60" Screen TV's 
~le 
__,_,,/;,-. ·.·.:.-·
Fully Enclosed Tent 
631-2000 
next to the N.D. Bookstore. www.themorrisinn.com 
"Your annual castf tfonus of a full 1% is paid out annually in January, and is based on your annual 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION
purchases. Cash bonus information will appear on each monthly statement. Not applicable to cas_h ad~ances or balance transfers, Not applicable to account if delinquent or over limit. Independent of the University. 219/239-6611 · www.odfcu.org 
·,t~~-back on purchases 1th a \/isa1F>"latinum Card from otre Dame Federal Credit Union!" 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
. Expectations remain high in 2001-02 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 
Every team has f~xpectations. _ 
After fivn years of steady 
improvement with head coach 
Dave Poulin, the Irish were eyeing 
their first invitation to the NCAA 
tournament. 
Unfortunately, things didn't 
work out. 
A young defense coupled with 
an anemic offense doomed Notre 
Dame from the start. The Irish 
stumbled out of the gates, and 
quickly fell to the bottom of the 
CCHA standings. 
Despite last year's setbacks, 
Notre Dame's goal of reaching the 
NCAA tournament remains the 
same. 
Defensively the Irish have only 
one upperclassman, junior team 
captain Evan Nielsen. Notre Dame 
also returns four sophomores who 
all saw playing time last season. 
Leading that group is Brett Lebda. 
No only is Lebda a force in the 
defensive zone, he also had seven 
goals and 19 assists for the Irish 
last season, tying him for third on 
the team. Lebda did lead Notre 
Dame in penalties, and this is an 
area of concern for Poulin. 
"We have addressed a lot of our concerns in the off season," said Poulin. "One of those concerns is penalties. We cannot be a good hockey team if we take penalties." 
Offensively, the Irish lost their two leading scorers in departed seniors Dan Carlson and Ryan Dolder. Stepping into their shoes will be a talented group of wingers in Connor•Dunlop, David Inman and Hob Globke. Globke and Dunlop missed time last sea­son while playing for the United States in the World Junior 
Championships. Inman is one of . . the assistant captains for the Irish. The· team selected juniors Dunlop and Nielsen as team rep­resentatives. But the coaching staff decided to name Inman as another assistant captain. 
"Inman definitely earned being 
a captain," said Poulin. 
In goal, the Irish have senior Jeremiah Kimento, junior Tony Zasowski, and incoming fresh­man Morgan Cey. Last year Kimento and Zasowski split play­ing time, with neither goalie stepping up to claim the starting spot. This season Ccy has looked impressive in preseason work­outs and earned the starting nod against Union College. 
Notre Dame missed the CCHA playoffs last year for the first time since the 1995-96 season. In order to return to the CCHA play­offs, and have a shot at making it to the NCAAs, thf~ Irish have to win some conference games ­early. 
"This season is going to go with how we handle adversity," said Poulin. "! am confident that we 
will be a good hockey team." 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at 
morenchu@nd.edu. 
SPRING BREAK 2002 
OrgAnla Group lo Go FIN. "\-(4 * FNM hrtles ~tlP.«
&Hounof . . . ­
FREE Drinks.. • . -• , 
FREE Meals for Llmlt..t Time! For Det1its and <he hit Rat 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 12, 2001 -----------------------------~-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-::.___-::.___-=-.. ===================================:--=-====-=_:_:__:__:_~-= 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish look to return to winning inMiami 
against Wisconsin. drawn and quartered by No. 15 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
"We're just trying to raise the Connecticut 5-0 at home on Assisum Spores Editor 
intensity at practice," said .Jones. Sept. 28. 
It's not that the Irish having The Irish are already looking It's Catholics versus Convicts, been taking shots, they just forward to their Oct. 2 l 2001 style. aren't going in. Notre Dame has matchup with the Huskies. The No. 5 Notre Dame out shot its opponents by a 192-"That's always a good game -it 
women's soccer t(~am returns to 92 margin this season. But the will be fun at their place," said the field this wtiekend to face Irish have been winning with .Jones. No. 24 r,.,Jiami, one week after determined defensive play, con­St. John's is the weaker of the experiencing its first loss of the stant ball control in the midfield, two squads the Irish will face year to Hutgers, a loss that and superior speed and talent this ,veckend, with the Hed ,~xposed the everywhere Storm traveling to South Bend struggling Irish on the field. with a 4-6 record this season,
"/ wish it was more than
offense. The "We're cre­including suffering a similar 5-0 Irish will also a day-and-a-half trip. It's ating a bunch abuse at the hands of take on St. supposed to be 90 of opportuni­Connecticut Sept. 19. John's Friday ties, we just Notre Dame captured the Big
[ degrees] there. ,,
night at Alumni need to finish East Mid-Atlantic title following Field. them," said their 2-1 victory against Seton After playing Lindsey Jones Jones. Hall last Sunday. Connecticut the Red Storm, Notre Dame has won the Northeast division. 
Irish captain
the Irish will hasn't 
on road trip to Miami Notes:
travel Saturday changed its 
. The Irish dropped to No. 5 in
to Miami, where offense 
the NSCANadidas Division 1 poll
they will take on the Hurricanes preparation much. 
on Oct. 8. Nebraska, who lost to
for the first time Sunday. "We aren't doing much differ­
Notre Dame at Alumni Field 1-0
The Irish are excited to be ent," said Jones. "We did some 
Sept. 25, jumped up a spot to
making the trip to Miami, with shooting today, but we always No. 4 in the rankings.
its guarantee of a competitive do that on Thursday." game and, more importantly, Freshman Candice Chapman good weather. has contributed considerably to 
"We're pretty excited." said the Irish offense, netting three 
senior captain Lindsey Jones. "I goals and assisting on two oth­wish it was more than a day­ers, despite splitting her time and-a-half trip. It's supposed to between forward and the back be 90 [degrees] there." line. 
Notre Dame has yet to fully Miami is off to its best start in iron out its offensive woes. The the four-year history of the pro­Irish have been winning games gram, sitting on an 8-3-0 record, by narrow margins all 3-2 in Big· East play. But the season.Seven out of their last Hurricanes have played poorly eight games have been decided against the upper echelon teams by a single goal, with one tie in the Big Eas_t, having been 


RESERVED WEEKLY COURT TIME SCHEDULING MEETING 
You must have a representative present at the meeting to request your times. 
Weekly court time will begin Monday, October 29. 
For more information, contact•Student Activities 631-6912. 
(, 



INVESTMENT STRATEGIES THAT ARE CLEAR AND CONCISE. EVEN IF OUR NAME ISN'T. 
Aside from our name, we've always been in favor of making things simple. So contact us for smart, easy investment techniques to help you reach your financial goals. 
TIAA-CREF.org or call I.800.842.2888 
~li~
~~~l\Q 
Mwwgi11g monty jt)r people
(II 
with other things to lltink ulJoul."' 
RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL F'UNDS COLLEGE SAVINGS TRUSTS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 
HAA·CHH hi.I II d1r.1 ~tll Ith• ·u• 1,,1,1 5' ,., 1 ,., hu , ,tmJ T••,it.fi1 ,., P1'r\P'l-i h1 ..,_..1•, h Sd, 1,.t·\ ltt· ,i -..·, t,u·i• \, u•' · 1, i,111.J11,.~, 
<rl 2001 T, •""'"' I,,,,.,,.,, t .-,u Ai,1111) A,,,1t, a'. ca,--Cu rg,, Ro:· n:1••:11: [,i,,: ,,, f,11,u (TIAA-CRffl rs.,,., y,,,,, !,V, Oli :o 
-


Friday, October 12, 2001 ­
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles drop 14th of season 
really stands out in my mind." said, whose plan for the rest of By JOE LINDSLEY 
Coach Julie Schroeder-Bick the season focuses on rein­
Sports Writt.'r 
attributed the loss to inconsis­forcing the importance of call­
tent play and a lack of ade­ing shots and talking during 
In a close match Thursday quate communication. play. night, the Belles had hoped to "We have been having "Our biggest theme this year post their fourth win of the longer moments of intensity. has been the lack of communi­season. We just have to break through cation," Schroeder-Bick con­
Instead, the Belles recorded and be intense for the entire tinued. "Tonight, they picked their 14th loss. match," Schroeder-Biek said. it up, but I want it to be sec­
"Manchester was definitely Saint Mary's exhibited that ond nature, where they don't beatable." said senior setter intensity at the beginning of even have to think about it." Jaime Dineen after the first game and during the Freshman Elizabeth Albert Manchester won three of four second and fourth games. was a huge asset to the team's games. "It's so hard to say Playing before their parents close loss with 23 digs and where we went wrong. All the on senior night, three service games are so close. I guess it's 
the Belles "Just for our mental well aces. 
the little things, but nothing started off Overall. 
habitat £or h-...i111a11ity 
fall break blitz bu.ild 




commit by wednesday, october 17. e-mail habitat@nd.edu 

NOTREOAME HOCKEY 
vs. 
UNION COLLEGE 
-
*One stu receive 
shoppi.n .
' 
ND 
receive 
pizza! 
·r~1 
energetically, but fell to  being we really could use a win.,,  the stats  Belles were  
Manchester,  lower  than  
26-30 in the first game. "We came out  Julie Schroeder-Biek Belles head coach  usual. Albert finished with 10 kills, Jolie  
really strong. I  L e  B e  a  u  
was  surprised  recorded  
we  lost  that  nine  and  

first game because we set the Andrea Bella posted eight. pace," Schroeder-Biek said. Other players struggled even 
Dineen believes that a lack more. of communication led to the Outside attacker Allison Belles first loss of the night. Shevik only had five ~ills, com­
"In the beginning, we pared to the double digit per­weren't talking as much as we formances she usually has. needed to," Dineen said. Saturday, the Belles play 
Saint Mary's began to loosen Kalamazoo at home. In their up in the second game, and last meeting, Saint Mary's lost the increased communication after five games, but on the court contributed to Schroeder-Bick has a positive their only win of the night, 30-outlook and believes it will be 
25. a close match. 
Per haps the most in tense A victory for her Belles game. though, was the fourth would not only be a nice addi­one, which Saint Mary's nar­tion to their losing record, but rowly lost, 33-35. would also prove welcome in 
"It was really exciting," said another capacity. Dineen of' the final game. "'\,Ve "Just for our own mental played our hearts out. It was a well being, we really could use great team effort." a win," Schroeder-Bick said. 
"l w.as really happy that they would not give up that last 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlind­
game. We really fought to 
sle@nd.edu.
catch up," Schrof~der-Biek 
'1'fie Co ton£ tttt 
Bed & Breakfast 4 rooms, 2 miles from campus 21 9-277-6068 
email: wjb4321@aol.com www.aeocities.com/alzard 
SMC SOCCER 

Tlw Bf'lles, who have vvon two Kalamazoo's Jessica Geiger, of their last thref~ away games, Stacey Nastase and Adrienne have become accustomed to Beller have all been named playing on the road and feel con­MIAA defensive players of the fident about Saturday's game. week this season. In order to 
But Kalamazoo will still be a prepare for the Hornet defense. tough opponent for Saint Mary's. the Belles have been working on 
The Kalamazoo Hornets are following up their shots, making currently tied with the Calvin accurate passes and marking up. Knights for second in the league, "We know that we can play with a record of 7-1. A victory with them," said sophomore 
against Kalamazoo would do a Katie Green. "We just have to lot for the Belles' ranking. finish our shots." "Right now we're tied for Saturday's game will be the fourth and we want to maintain second time that Saint Mary's that status because no Saint has faced off against Kalamazoo Mary's soccer team has ever this season. The Hornets defeat-
MEN'S SOCCER 
J 
\ 
Prescod scores 2 as ND blanks WV

playing in the Big East for the By CHRIS FEDERICO first time this year. The Hokies 
'' 
Sports Writer have gotten some solid victories ~ .. .: this year. working to a 7-4 The difference between the record with a 1-3 conference
'' 
~ 
', good teams and the average mark. teams is that the good ones win Notre Dame meets Virginia)< the close games and the games Tech at 1 p.m. on Sunday in they ought to win. The men's Blacksburg, Va. ,;1;i~·•'.,: soccer team took another impor­
(Jl ! 
,, tant step towards making this 
·t ,, ' 
Contact Chris Federico at
distinction Thursday with a 3-0 
cfederic@nd.edu.
win over the \Nest Virginia Mountaineers. The game went scoreless for
',iiJ: 
more than 65 minutes, and it ,_)I appeared as if the Irish would 
Vero Italiano 
)' endure another nail-biter. With
'!.'. 
~) 23 minutes and 50 seconds left 
,> 
to play, Devon Prescod took a 
~; '. 
pass from Chad Hiley and put the ball through the net for the ~ game's first goal. It would open the gates for the
~ 
Irish.
Z·t 
Just 10 minutes later, Prescod took another pass, this time from forward Erich Braun, and
~~ knocked in his second goal of the 
\) 
night. Coming into the game,
1,,1 
,_;y· Prescod had only one other goal 
',/
'1.·. in his career. 

With just 5:29 remaining, Braun netted his seventh goal of the year off of an assist from Prescod. Braun, Notre Dame's leading scorer, has contributed a goal in every game the Irish have scored in. The solid Notre Dame defense recorded its sec­ond shutout of the year. The team got a strong performance from freshman goalkeeper Chris Sawyer, who earned his first col­legiate shutout. 
The victory starts the Irish off on the right foot on their push to make the Big East tournament. They improve to 3-2 in confer­ence play with the victory and travel Sunday to play first-year Big East member Virginia Tech. 
A win against the llokies would put Notre Dame into a much safer position heading into the home stretch of its schedule. The Irish have seven games remaining, five of which are against Big East opponents, including defending national champion Connecticut. 
Virginia Tech competed as an independent last season, and~ 
Catalino'• Trattoria Downtown South Bend 
-
' 
. Friday, October 12, 2001 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
Belles look to avenge stinging Hornet loss 
been higher than fifth. So that's ed the Belles 9-1 in the first teams in the conforence," said "The first time we played them By LINDSAY MOLLAN one of our goals," said senior meeting. Robinson. we came out timid and \V(~ren 't Sports Writer Katie Hobinson. The tflam is not discouraged by Saint Mary's believes that ready to play but now we're a lot In order to preserve their posi­the unevenness of their first Saturday's game will be much more confident." said Hobinson. tion in the league and improve encounter. closer than the first time the two
The Saint Mary's soccer team takes on Kalamazoo College this upon their 3-5 record, the Belles "I feel a lot more prepared to teams played and that an Saturday at noon in their fourth will haw~ their work cut out for play them now because we've improved intensity will be their Contact Lindsay Mollan at played well against a lot of other key to victory. moll l 36 I@saintmarys.edu.
consecutive away game. them. 
WWW.LUNKERS.COM PH 1-616-663-3745 ­26324 US 12 EAST EDWARDSBURG, Ml 
49112 
FOUNDED BY FRAN MCCOLLESTER -A 1977 NO GRAD! 
ONE OF THE LARGEST OUTDOOR STORES IN THE COUNTRY! YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR FISHING, HUNTING AND CAMPING GEAR! WE NOW HAVE A HUGE GIFT AREA! 
ANGllEfPtS llNN lR!ESTAU!RANT 
-LOCATED INSIDE LUNKER'S ­
LARGE MENU OF DELICIOUS FOOD AND DRINK ITEMS. SURROUNDED BY LARGE AQUARIUMS FULL OF FISH AND BIG SCREEN TVS FULL OF SPORTS! PERFECT PLACE TO DINE BEFORE OR AFTER THE GAME! 
OVER 20 AQUARIUMS, INCLUDING OUR 6,000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM 
COME EXPERIENCE THE 2ND HIGHLIGHT OF THE AREA ( 1 ST BEING ND) 
NORTH FACE 
PATAGONIA MIDWEST'S LARGEST SELECTION 

WOOLRICH OF FISHING, HUNTING AND 
COLUMBIA CAMPING/BACKPACKING EQUIP­
FILSON MENT. SO MUCH TO SEE AND EXPERIENCE! HUGE AUTHENTIC SIGNED SPORTS MEMORABILIA* SECTION 
•Goo BLESS AMERICA• 
LOCATED ONLY 15 MINUTES FROM ND! SR 23N TO US 12 

The Easy Banking Club 
for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Faculty and Staff 
Great .Benefits 
Sign up for direct deposit payroll at 1st Source Bank and receive the following great benefits: 
• 
Free checking account* 

• 
Interest on balances over $750 

• 
Unlimited check writing 

• 
Free Resource® or Resource Plus® card 

• 
1 /2% interest discount on consumer loans 

• 
$100 mortgage closing cost discount 

• 
Free Online Banking account information access 

• 
And much more... 


Ask Human Resources or a 1st Source Bank representative for details on how easy it is to Join. 
Now More Convenient Than Ever! 
In addition to our banking center and ATM in Haggar College Center, and our ATM in the Hesburgh Library, we recently added a third ATM in LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's. Plus, we've extended our hours at the Saint Mary's Banking Center to serve you even better. 
Saint Mary's Banking Center • 235-2019 M-Th • 10:QO to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30 
"Sob)E'Ct to new account credit restrictions. 

lstsource.com 

-
Friday, October l 2, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Top quarterbacks face off in PE-BP battle 
By KATIE KINNER and by junior Tessa Sainz, who has coach for Farley. "Our season is hoping to get a higher seed in league regular season games 
MATTLOZAR played strongly at outside line­over concerning the playoffs, the playoffs so this game is just ends with this contest on backer after the loss of senior but we want to put a damper on as important as the others." Sunday at 3 p.m. on McGlinn
Sports Wrirers 
Kelly Deckleman, who broke Cavanaugh's season." "We told our seniors this is Fields. 
With tlH\ end of the season 
quickly approaching, the scram­
b I c to the playoffs will be 
marked by the competition 
between two scrambling quar­
terbacks when Pasquerilla East 
meets Breen-Phillips on Sunday 
aftmnoon. 
Katie McFarland, the Babes' 
star offensive player, and PE 
quarterback Lindsay Terifay 
will attempt to lead their teams 
to victory and into the playoffs. 
"We are definitely looking toward the future," said BP cap­tain Jenny Wahoske, whose tm1m holds a record of 2-1-1. 
McFarland has been the key to this success, dominating the Bab!\s' game against Pangborn. On a w1~t night, she made sever­al completions to BP receivers Lindsay Walz and Kelly Landers while also running for a 20-yard touchdown. 
"Katie takes the cake on offensive because of lrnr mobili­ty, the rnst of us arc just a sup­porting cast." said \Vahoskc. 
PE's Lindsay Terifay had her own touchdown run in the Pyros' win against Pasquerilla \Nest. Dashing for the only score of' the game in the final minutes of' the second half. Terifay helped the Pyros s•~curn a win against their rivals. 
Both teams also perform well defonsively. Breen-Phillips is led 
"This 
her collarbone in the Babes' 
loss to Welsh Family. 
"Tessa is all over the place 
and has really stepped up to fill 
the hole left by Kelly." said 
Wahoske. 
Wahoske also pointed out that 
BP has shut out every team this 
season except for Welsh and 
Badin. conceding only three 
touchdowns all season. 
PE's defense has also been a 
key to the team's play, with 
strong showings against 
Pangborn and in a loss to Lyons 
earlier this season. 
Cavanaugh vs. Farley 
Since the schedule came out, this game has been circled on the calendar for Cavanaugh's Katie Burdick and Farley's coach Irish .Thompson. They both work at Rolfs Aquatic Center and have been remind­ing each other of the impending match-up. 
"We've been talking some since the beginning of the semester," said Burdick, a senior wide receiver for the Chaos. "I've seem him scouting us so I know he is concerned." 
For Farley, the coaching staff has stressed that this game has intra-quad bragging rights on the line. 
"We've told the. girls that if you win this game, you have can brag about it in the dining hall," said Chris Cordes, senior 
In their 13-12 win over 
Howard Tuesday night, the 
Chaos extended their unbeaten 
streak to four games. Since an 
opening game loss to Lewis. the 
Chaos have used their defense 
to clinch a playoff berth. 
"The defense, except for the 
game against Howard, has held 
the other team to one touch­
down or less," Burdick said. 
"That helps the offense because 
it doesn'.t have to score on every 
possession." 
Senior safety Allison Dennhardt and linebackers senior Sara Elberts and junior Sarah Dreznes have led the Cavanaugh defense. 
Tuesday night, Farley picked up their first victory of the year with a 6-0 win against Off Campus. Farley looks to keep this momentum going in their final game. 
"We scored early in the first half and that gave us confidence for the rest of the game," said Cordes. "The offense had a lot more fun and started taking over the play calling." 
With the playoffs already clinched, the Chaos do not plan on just going through the motions in this game. They have some incentive to defeat the Finest. 
"It is a different feeling know­ing that you are in the playoffs," said Burdick. ".We are kinda their last. game and to play their hardest. But this last week, we 
Contact Katie Kinner at kkin­
have been all about having 
ner@nd.edu and Matt Lozar at 
fun.," said Cordes. 
rnlozar@nd.edu
The women's interhall blue 

-
•


~rida9_, <>c-t-<>f>er :I 2 -. -, :c:>c:> p•• • in .,..he 
No.,..re Daw••e Rooc•~ <>~ 
( oPor.,..une S.,..uden.,.. <::Cn.,..er 
N<> p<»• ·f-...-.e:r ~E.:;~~~~<»r9_ Cc><>\ pri2:e;~­

A 
. 

. 
" 
Sp<>ras<>r~d b9 -t-he S-t-1...1d~~'f­
Ac-t-ivi-t-i~s Oe-£"ice_ P<>r .-T-.e>re; 
ira~<>r•raof-i<>ra 
c<>rl..,.ac-t­
c531-73e>S_ 

. '· t 
page 26 Friday, October 12, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish harriers travel to Pre-Nationals 
• No. 5 men face top competition in Greenville 
By KATIE HUGHES Sports Writer 
The front of the pack will be a little more crowded this Saturday for the men's cross country team. 
The No. 5 Irish head to the P r e ­National meet at t h e Furman C r o s s Country Course in Green­ville, S.C., and will face their toughest competition thus far. 
No. 1 Colorado and No. 2 Stanford are tentatively scheduled to be at the meet, as well as No. 9 Villanova, Duke, Wake Forest, Northern Arizona and Michigan State. At least half of the teams ranked in the t'op 25 will at the meet. 
"We're hoping as a team to come out with a win," said senior Ryan Shay. 
Seniors Shay, Luke Watson, Marc Striowski, Pat Conway and Sean Zanderson, as well as sophomores Todd Mobley and Mario Bird will run for the Irish. 

"Conway was sick last week, and Mario ran very well in his race," said head coach Joe Piane. 
The participating teams at Pre-Nationals will be divided National meet. 
Shay was battling a cold in last week's meet and was still trying to beat it as Pre­Nationals drew closer. 
'Tm hoping by Saturday to get better," said Shay. " I'm trying to get as much rest as possible, doing everything your mom tells you to do." 
Bird finished second over-
evenly into two heats based on the current 
• rankings. "Stanford a n d Colorado will not be in same heats, but that will be excellent competi­tion," said head coach 
Joe Piane. "Colorado 
"I'm hoping by Saturday to get better. I'm trying to get as much rest as possible. doing everything your mom tells you to do." 
Ryan Shay Irish captain on getting over the flu 
all in last week's Gold divi­sion race to earn a 
S p O t 
among the seven run­ners going to Pre­Nationals. 
Who the Irish beat in this meet will have a big influence 
State has been running awfully well." 
In last week's Notre Dame Invitational, Watson finished first for the Irish, followed by Shay and Mobley. Striowski took fifth overall, and Zanderson finished 17th. Saturday, the Irish pack will have more to push them than each other. Watson and Striowski both finished in the top 10 in last year's Pre­on whether they will be able to get an at large bid to go to Nationals. The top two teams at regionals qualify automati­cally. 
"This meet has a lot to do with who gets at-large bids," said Piane, " But I'd like to think we won't need one." 
Contact Katie Hughes at Hughes.39@nd.edu. 
. No. 24 women face first test as ranked team 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Writer 

For the women's cross country team, early season mission No. 1 is accomplished. 
The Irish earned a No. 24 rank­ing after last week's victory at the Notre Dame Invitational and will send the same solid team to the NCAA Pre-National meet this Saturday at the Furman Cross Country Course in Greenville, S.C. 
Pre-Nationals will be the biggest challenge for the Irish thus far, and only the second meet in which the full team will run. 
Juniors Jen Handley, Muffy Schmidt and Jen Fibuch, freshmen Christi Arnerich and Lauren King, who won last week's meet, and sophomores Megan Johnson and Julie Schmidt, will run in Greenville. 
Last week the Irish crushed the 18 other teams in the field, led by a first place finish by King in her first collegiate cross-country race. 
King pulled away in the last part of the race to win by six seconds. A third place by teammate Handley and another top 10 finish by Johnson showed the team's speed up front. Arnerich finished 20th and Fibuch finished 24th. 
"Last week gave them a lot of 
confidence," said Johnson. "We were excited to be ranked, but we want to keep building on that." 
This meet will help the Irish reach their goal qualifying as one of only 30 teams to get a bid to nationals. 
When they run at regionals, the top two teams automatically go to nationals, but who Notre Dame beats at a meet like Pre-Nationals will determine where they will stand when it comes time to get an at large bid. 
"Our goal is to go there and beat people who are going to be auto­matic qualifiers [for the NCAA meet], or who will be among the top non-automatic qualifiers," said Irish head coach Tim Connelly. "We want to put ourselves in a position to get an at large bid." 
The Irish did not know specifical­ly who would be in their race, but the meet will include teams from No. 2 Stanford, No. 3 North Carolina State, No. 4 BYU and No. 6 Boston College. Two races will be run Saturday, in an effort to bal­ance the competition. 
"We don't know who's going to be in our race," said Connelly. "But we just wan.t to go down there and worry about being as good as we can. It's a really critical meet. Out of the top 25 ranked teams, 21 will be there." 
Contact Katie Hughes at Hughes.39@nd.edu. 
,_··.·~...· 
' < 
r~S~ . i:j':i_, 
,, ~ J 
l· 
{ j ~. 
,,'.1 
. ;),:' 
~:-;~t! 
,,)!
),.) ) 


;;;s·' 

A•~~i1W~iillll F111tllr.ill ~h•llttas '''I'm Spiritual, but not Religious': What is Christian Spirituality?'' with Lawrence S. Cunningham John A. O'Brien Professor of Theology 10 a.m. Saturday Hesburgh Center Auditorium Coming Up . Oct. 20, 1Oa.m. (USC) ­Teresa Ghilarducci, associate professor of economics, on "Social Security Reform: The Potential and Pitfalls of Private Accounts" . Nov. 3, 11 a.m. (Tennessee) -Seamus Deane, the Donald and Marilyn Keough Professor of Irish Studies, on "Newman and Ireland: Converting the Empire" . Nov.17, 11 a.m. (Navy) ­F. Clark Power, professor of psychology, on "Moral Education at the Crossroads" Saturday Scholar Series presentations take place 3 1/2 hours before kickoff in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu for more information.  



r-­
Friday, October 12, 200 I page 27 
The Observer . TODAY 
-·-···-----------------------------~---------··--------------------­
RYAN
B B
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY EFUDDLED AND EMUSED CUNNINGHAM 
WHEN IT COMES TO MIDTERMS, NAH, LET' 5 &o WITH
SO WHAT'S IT
MANY STVl)ENTS TAICE TO EXTREMES "BOOKS OF THE 01.t>
GONNA BE? 
TESTAMENT°'
MOTHER'S NAME? GIRLFRIEND'S? 
FOXTROT BILL AMEND 
....... 


Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Turkey----4 11 Chatroom 
offerer 12 One living in a dump 13 Causes of 
cheers, briefly 19 Comportment 21 Prefix with 
magnetic 
24 High point in Turkey 
25 Shays of Shays's Rebellion 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13.000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it' today to receive The Observer in your home. 
57 Highflier's hangout 58 Part of Ascap: Abbr. 59 Peace Nobelist Ducommun 60 Car document 61 Kind of barrel 62 Cupcake 63 Last name in fashion 
DOWN 
1 Fraud 2 Sweat source 3 Unsettled, in a 
way 4 "Four Essays on Liberty" author Berlin 5 Subject of many operas 6 Whistle blower, 
perhaps 7 Mukluk wearer 8 Ringo Starr's 
"_Song" 9 Put down 10 Emblem of 
27 With 16-Across, way leading to a highway 
28 Bad atmosphere 29 Many a Degas 30 Approaches 33 Take in 36 Cooperation 38 Co-workers' gab 40 Hung over 41 Dynasty during 
which Taoism emerged 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­
Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
6  7  8  9  
15  
18  

decrees46 Fix, as a pump 
48 Piaster 53 Very sensitive production 54 Whence water place 
55 Aetna offering, 
50 Yarn for short 
51 "Dies 56 Ballad's end? 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Brian De Palma, Amy Madigan, Moby, Harry Connick Jr., Lola Falana, Earl Holliman 
Happy Birthday: Drastic measures don't usually bring results, but this year you may have to be willing to/ush the envelope. Be prepare , precise and right to the point. The less you dawdle, the more you'll accomplish. Your numbers: 8, 13, 21, 34, 45, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Break away from everyday rou­tine and do something a little bit different. Being involved in large organizations and lost in the crowd will allow you to observe and gain insight. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Being a good Samaritan will add to your popularity. You will be able to make positive changes to your working conditions by gain­~he support of co-workers. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
You'll be like the Tasmanian devil 
·today, so full of energy and ideas it will be difficult for the average person to keep. Don't be too quick to judge others who seem to be standing still. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
You are under observation. Don't become involved with anyone who may already be married. Keep your feet on the ground and look for a stable partner or stay single for now. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make a difference. Your job of helping others will become easy if your empathize. Your ability as a spokesperson will be admired. 
0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Birthday Baby: You are sophisticated and loving. You're a mediator who will have the ability to make others smile and to bring harmony and peace to any situation. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 
(0 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST  
Brown-nosing will lead to jeal­ousy and to conflicts with col­leagues, leaving you friendless and the talk of the office. Be pro­ductiv e but don't flaunt your actions.00 LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): It's time to back off and let the chips fall where they may. Do not pry into the affairs of others. Sudden changes are likely regarding your professional position. Don't take chances. 000 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put your cash in the bank. Taking financial risks will lead to trouble. Problems will result if you have put too much stress on yourself. Life can be enjoyable if you stick to basics. 000 SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It won't be all about you today. If loved ones ask for your time, be prepared to give it. If you don't, you may not like the treatment you get in return. 00 · CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Expect delays or problems with shipments,. mail or equipment. Don't rely on colleagues. Stay put and work on projects that don't require a great deal of travel or communication. 00 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Feeling good about yourself is half the battle, as you've discov­ered if you've been making some alterations to your appearance. You can expect to attract a lot of attention. 00000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Avoid disputes by treating others with respect and being a little morP accommodating. The old saying is true: Actions do speak louder than words. Be affection­ate and refrain from being critical orquestioning.000  -- 

ACROSS 1 Go bad 6 Some match es 
end with them 10 It may get 
pushed around 14 "In what way?" 15 Carbon 
compound 16 See 27-Down 17 Quarters 18 Diner orders 20 Start of a guru's 
quip 22 Ready to react, 
perhaps 23 Half a score 27 Ancient storage 
jar 30 One with star potential? 31 "World Factbook" compiler 
32 One who speaks up 34 "Peter Pan" pooch 35 Division of society 37 Middle of the quip 38 Peel 
39 Medieval fortress city in Italy 
40 Person of integrity and honor 
42 50's polit. inits. 43 Nasty politico 45 "Heh-heh," for 
one 47 Author Rushdie . 48 Math calculation 49 End of the quip 54 Picture show? 
CROSSWORD 
-· 

Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 
. ND Cross Country, p. 26 
. ND Women's Soccer, p. 22 
. 
Women's lnterhall, p. 25 . Hockey, p. 21 

. 
SMC Soccer, p. 24 . Men's lnterhall Gold p. 20 

. 
Men's Soccer p. 24 . Men's lnterhall Blue, p. 18 


. SMC Volleyball, p. 23 Friday, October 12, 2001 
MEN'S AND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish ballers tip off at midnight 
Men hope for life after Murphy 
. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Editor 

arely two sentences into his first press conference of 
the 2001-02 basketball season, Notre Dame men's 
basketball coach Mike Brey answered the question 
everyone else was dying to ask. 
"I think the theme since last spring has been 'Is there life 
' after Troy [Murphy]?"' Brey said. "We really feel there is." 

. Defending champs start new season with three new starters 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
When the 2001-02 installment of the Notre Dame women's basketball program put on their uniforms for media day and took the Joyce Center floor together for the first time last Thursday, they hardly resembled the squad that brought home 
Nobody denies that Murphy was the focal point of Notre Dame's success last season. Before he was drafted by the Golden State Warriors in the first round of the NBA draft, Murphy led the Irish to the Big East West Division champi­onship and a berth in the NCAA tournament -the first for the Irish in 11 years. 
But with Murphy gone, Brey feels that Notre Dame's three senior captains, David Graves, Ryan Humphrey and Harold Swanagan, as well as junior Matt Carroll, will provide the 
leadership the Irish need. Tonight at Midnight Madness in the Joyce Center, Irish fans will get their first glimpse at life after Murphy. 
"Once Troy made his final decision, we had time to fig­ure out what our team was going to be like," Brey said. "You have four guys who have played a lot of basketball and you have four guys who have won a championship. When you have older guys, you have a chance to be OK." In Humphrey, Graves and Carroll, the Irish have three players who averaged more than 29 minutes a game last season. And Swanagan will be responsible for guarding 
the opponent's top big man, a role he slowly took on as last year progressed. 
"People haven't seen how good we can he because we haven't been able to spread our wings," Graves said. "This year, it's kinda full throttle." 
But the departure of Murphy isn't the only void Brey is worried about filling. Point guard Martin Ingelsby, who led the Irish in total minutes last year, graduated in the spring. Brey 
is looking toward freshman Chris Thomas, who was a McDonald's All-American and Mr. Basketball in Indiana, to be the next Notre Dame point guard. 
However, Brey doesn't know how his young star will respond to the intense pressure he is certain 
to face. "It's not like we have to overanalyze this and wonder who's the point guard. He's the 
guy," Brey said. "I think what helps ...-11111!'!!11, Chris Thomas is those four guys up front. He's playing with four 
men. It's not like there's two freshmen up there. That's real­ly going to help him." · 
"Expectations are high for myself, and I think I've added those expectations to my mind," Thomas said. "Having the upperclassmen here is a key factor for us because it's not like I'm passing the ball to someone who doesn't know what to do with it. I'm passing it to guys who have been here, who have been through key games and the tournament and know what to do with the ball. If I give it up, I'm not going to have to worry about going to get it back like in high school." 
Beyond Notre Dame's starting five, Brey is concerned about depth along the front line. Along the bench, only Tom Timmermans and Jere Macura are taller than 6-foot-9. and neither saw significant playing time last year. 
"I told our guys, it's not that Coach Brey plays only plays six guys," Brey said. "You tell me how many are going to play. Six were all that were ready to do it last year." 
Brey also expects sophomore Torrian Jones to play a more important role this season. Last year, Jones was used pri­marily in defensive situations and as a backup point guard. But Brey expects that to change this year. 
"Torrian Jones really looks good," Brey said. "We certainly got him back in there, he delivered, and I think he learned a lot. I think he's a guy we can call on quickly on the perime­ter." · 
Brey also expects newcomers Jordan Cornette and Chris Markwood to contribute. Markwood, who sat out all of last season after undergoing knee surgery, will be able to relieve Thomas at the point. And Brey is excited to have Cornette, whom he describes as a quick defender who can guard any­one on the floor, big or small. 
"We're going to he a different team and I think our style of play is going to be different," Carroll said. 
But even if this year's Irish have a different look than last year's team, they still want to accomplish the same things they did last year. The Irish believe they are capable of repeating as Big East West Division champions and, if they play consistently in the Big East, will make it back to the NCAA tournament. 
"Ryan's never missed a tournament, and he's made that 
the NCAA championship last April. 
Missing was the imposing figure of Naismith Award winner Ruth Riley. Also graduated and missing were starters Kelley Siemon and Niele Ivey, as well as senior leaders Imani Dunbar and Meaghan Leahy. 
In their place, the six freshmen making up the women's basketball class of 2005 donned the gold for the first time. Forwards Teresa Borton, Jackie Batteast, Katie Flecky, Kelsey Wicks and guards Allison Bustamante and Jill Krause bring in a new crop of talent. And a new set of expectations. 
The Irish were predicted to be the 19th­best team in the country according to Athlon Sports, 20th-best according to Women's Basketball Journal. In fact, Llndy's didn't have the Irish ranked at all. For Irish head coach Muffet McGraw, the goals are still the same. 
"We want to get a first-round bye in the Big East Tournament and we want to host a game in the NCAA Tournament," McGraw said. "I think we have the same goals this year. Maybe instead of a No. 1 seed, maybe we're the 16th seed, the 16th 
see MEN/page 12 
team to get the home court. It doesn't really matter, our goal is to get that home court game." 
Leading the way for the Irish will be two veterans. Forward Ericka Haney, the lone senior on the team, averaged a career­best 11 points per contest last season. This season, Haney will be counted on to provide leadership as well as solid offense and rebounding. 
"That's going to be a real task for Ericka to lead a team with six freshman and two sophomores,"McGraw said. "It's 
see WOMEN/page 12 
. ND Volleyball vs. Villanova, today, 4 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. Hockey vs. Union College, today, 7:05 p.m.
SPORTS 
onHne classifieds 
. ND Women's Soccer vs. SI. John's, today, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . SMC Volleyball vs. Kalamazoo, Saturday, 11 a.m. http://v.'ww.nd.edu/~observer 
I ,,­


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 12, 200I 

meet in battle of underachievers
ND, 
Third Prize: 2 Tickets on the 50yd line, 2 Half-Time Press Box Passes & I Parking Pass Fourth Prize: 2 Tickets Between 40-SOyd line Fifth Prize: 2 Tickets Between 40-SOyd line 
• 
TICKETS: $10 each $25 for 3 $100 for a book of 15 
Complete the form below and mail to:
To Purchase Tickets: 
Notre Dame Women's Lacrosse 
C113 Joyce Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556
· Stop by the Secretary outside the ND 
Make Checks payable to University of Notre Dame Women's Lacrosse 
Lacrosse Office (Gate 3, · second floor, entry 
: ND Women's Lacrosse Tackling Tennessee Raffle -----· 
I 
near Varsity Shop) between 9am-5pm Friday :Name__________________________ 
I 
OR stop by the table at the JACC during the :Address________________•_________ 
I 
:City/State/Zip.____________________
football luncheon 11:3Oam-1pm Friday 
I 
:Phone_________________________ 
·----·---------------------------------------------------------------­
For More Info Call 219-631-8352 or Email Teresa.A.Coyne.7@nd.edu 
By KERRY SMITH Spons Writer 
At first glance Saturday's match•up between Notre Dame and West Virginia appears to produce a similar pair. Both teams are struggling offen­sively, both head coaches have searched for a leader at the quarter­back position and both teams are looking for ways to turn a losing sea­son around. 
But Irish head coach Bob Davie thinks his team has the key to victory: momentum. 
"This week is especially important because we do have what amounts to some momentum right now ... I think this is a criticial stretch for us right now to get things back on track," the fifth-year head coach said. "I think our football team feels better about itself right now obviously after the win. It's a lot easier to coach coming off a win. Just momentum is a funny thing." 
Davie and the Irish hope that momentum is a big enough of a wave to ride out a 1-3 sluggish season start. 
Mountaineer head coach Hich Rodriguez is looking for that same spark. His 2-3 team is suffering through a two-game losing streak and is coming off its worst home shutout loss since 1963 -a 35-0 loss to Virginia Tech. 
Coming into Saturday's contest, both the Irish and the Mountaineers are laboring to put points on the score­board. The Irish, despite some posi­tive signs of point production against Pitt, dwindle at the bottom of the NCAA offensive rankings averaging less than 12 points per game. 
The Mountaineers aren't faring much better. Despite scoring a sea­son-high 34 points against Kent State, 
Rodriguez's team is averaging about 16 points a game. 
Much of the failure to produce points has stemmed from early season quarterback woes. The Irish have gone back and forth between last sea~ son's starter Matt Lovecchio and last season's backup Carlyle Holiday. 
But aftl1r Holiday's effective start at home last w«:)ek, Davie hopes the so called "quarterback controversy" is in the past. 
"I think first of all the reason we went with Carlyle is he's able to cre­ate plays on his own," Davie said. " ... I think you're going to see his devel­opment as a passer ... I don't really worry about him scrambling. In fact, we kind of encourage it because I think he has some amazing ability with the ball in his hand." 
Rodriguez is currently experiencing the struggle for a ball handler that the Irish hope they're through with. 
After a dismal performance against Virginia Tech last week, Rodriguez declared Monday that he is consider­ing replacing starter Brad Lewis in this Saturday's outing. 
"We've got to get better production and he quarterbacks have got to start taking charge more," Rodriguez said. "This week we've got three of them who have got to do it in practice. We'll see how all three of them do." 
Lewis has thrown seven intercep­tions and just three touchdowns. 
Those are numbers the Irish defense wants to capitalize on. 
"They're going to spread the field," Davie said. "They basically play 70 percent of the time with four wide receivers in the game. Obviously you're going to be in a lot of nickel, in a lot of dime." 
The Irish are hurting in the sec­ondary, with Gerome Sapp and Ron Israel at less than full speed. Clifford Jefferson, who sat out of the Pitt game 
JOSECUELLA Notre Dame tailback Terrance Howard runs with the ball during Notre Dame's 42-28 win against West Virginia last year. 
with an injury will return to the line­up but won't start. Vontez Duff will for the second game in a row start in his place. 
Injuries to the defensive unit aren't the only Irish impediments. 
Tony Fisher's status reamains a 
game-time decision. The senior tail­back suffered a knee and hamstring injury during last week's outing. 
Contact Kerry Smith at Smith.387@nd.edu 
Grand Prize: Second Prize: 
BUY A RAFFLE TICKET AND ENTER TO WIN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING PRIZES (DRAWING IS 10/227/01, WINNERS NEED NOT BE PRESENT) 4 Tickets on the 50yd line, 4 Pre-Game Sideline Passes & I Parking Pass 4 Tickets on the 50yd line, 4 Half-Time Press Box Passes & I Parking Pass 


Friday, October 12, 2001 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Vollers grows up 
Senior tackle once thought he'cl stay smaller-now, he is the biggest man on the team 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
Kurt Vollers has grown a lot at 
Notre Dame. 
He's bulked up from the 240­
pound defensive lineman who 
enrolled in the fall of 1997 to the 
324-pound offensive tackle set to 
graduate this December. He's 
gone from someone who never 
lifted weights until his junior 
year of high school to a putting 
up 450 pounds on the bench 
press. 
But more importantly than the 
weight he's put on or the 
strength he's gained, he's grown 
as a person. 
"I was kind of a slacker my 
first couple of years here," he 
said. "I wasn't really into the 
football scene. It was just me." 
His father, John Vollers, saw 
the change in his son. Lou Holtz 
told John Vollers when he 
recruited his son in 1996 that he 
would grow as a person at Notre 
Dame. And that growth would be 
most apparent between his 
sophomore and senior years. 
"When he talks to his brothers 
and sisters, there is a direct 
reflection that wasn't there 
before," John Vollers said. 
Five years later, as the most 
experienced offensive lineman on 
the team, Kurt Vallers is a team 
player and in some ways a 
leader. 
"I've never really been the 
leadership type of guy," Kurt 
Vollers said. "I don't like follow­
ing others eithfff to tell you the 
truth. But I've never really been 
the one that goes out and makes 
sure everyone else follows him. 
But some of the positional coach­
es said this is something that I 
had to do. These are the shoes I 
am wearing so I have to walk in 
them." 
After Notre Dame started 0-3, 
Kurt Vollers took some huge leadership strides with the rest of the offensive lineman. In his final . season, he wasn't going to go out 
a loser. 
"The big thing for me was I 
didn't come back for a losing 
season and I am not going to let 
it slip to that," Kurt Vallers said. 
"I just want to bring a big season 
back and take all these guys with 
me." 
"Kurt Vallers has come a long 
way," head coach Bob Davie 
said. "Early on he fought acade­
mics, fought some maturity 
things that you go through and 
was injured. Now he's come on 
and been a real leader for us." 
Although he has grown a lot 
and learned a lot about himself 
and his abilities, there are still 
many areas where he doesn't 
know everything. And, in per­
haps the greatest sign of his 
maturity, he willingly admits that 
he doesn't do everything right. 
"Sometimes I am sure I don't 
do the right thing," Kurt Vallers 
said. "I am not the person [the 
coaches] want me to be but it is 
something I go out to practice 
and try to do." 
And when Kurt Vollers need 
advice and guidance for the 
things he doesn't know, he turns 
to one person: his father John. 
Father knows best 
Throughout his life, Kurt 
up· close & personal 
WITH KURT VOLLERS 

Kurt Vollers 
birthdate: April 4, 1979 hometown: Whittier, Calif. major: sociology favorite place on campus: dining hall 
a word to describe me on the field: nasty aword to describe me off the field: light hearted the best advice I've ever received: 
"Never say anything you wouldn't want to see in the paper the next day" 
I wish I could switch places for a day with: Jon Bon Jovi 
Vollers has listened to his father's advice. 
''I've always tried to go with what my father though was the best for me and it's always seemed to work," Kurt Vallers said. "I just keep going down this path." 
When Kurt Vollers was a high­ly touted high school prospect and major programs from across the country knocked on his door with scholarship offers, he turns to his father for guidance. With nearly every school presenting sparkling offers full of promises and praise, John Vollers helped Kurt Vallers look at what really mattered. 
"I would say the No. 1 thing when he and I talked about the different scholarship offers from different schools, one of the things we talked about was the quality of education he could get and the support of the alumni," John Vallers said. 
That narrowed the choices down to Notre Dame and USC. In the end, Notre Dame won out. 
"Of the two schools that were strongest with [alumni support], SC's [alumni support] was if you stayed in southern California [for a job] but ND was nationwide," John Vollers said. 
So the self-described "surfer­skater guy" took his father's advice and signed up for a col­lege hundreds of miles from the beach. But even though he'll admit Notre Dame was the best school for him, he looks forward to his return to California. 
"Two and a half more months," he said. "I'll be back on the beach. I don't know if I'll be surfing yet, but I'll get back on the board eventually." 
Now that he is at Notre Dame, Kurt Vallers still listens to his 
NELLIE 
Senior tackle Kurt Vollers drops back into pass protection during Notre Dame's 24-7 victory against 
Pittsburgh last weekend. 
father's advice -especially dur­ing the tough times. 
Some of the lessons he has tried to instill in his son over the years include the basics like the Golden Rule and basic tolerance for other people. But his most important piece of advice is to live for the moment. 
"Basically you learn from your past, you prepare for your future but the only thing you have con­trol over is right now," John Vollers said. "If the football team has several losses, you can't cry over them. You just have to be prepared for the next game." 
Since the Fiesta Bowl in January, that has been some of the most important advice John Vallers has given his son. But at the same time, Kurt Vollers already knew that lesson. 
"We started off with three loss­es but I am going to try to put those behind me until the end of the season," he said. "Maybe I will be pissed off about them later, but now is not the time." 
"I think he already knew [what to do]," John Vollers said. "I tend to reinforce it. I give him some analogies or stories or situations that I have been through in the past. Everyone goes through tough times at different times in their lives. This won't be the first. This won't be the last thing that is challenging." 
Stepping up 
Kurt Vollers' first public chal­lenge at Notre Dame came on Nov. 13, 1999. Starting tackle Jordan Black was down with an injury so Kurt Vallers was pro­moted to starting tackle. 
"We were in a bad situation that season," Kurt Vallers said. "A lot of people were down. I really wanted to go in there and show people that I deserved to go in there and be in that position. I hadn't done that previously." 
The promotion was thought to be temporary. Once the injuries healed, Kurt Vollers would be back on the bench. But he didn't want to follow that plan. 
"There was an·injury and peo­ple were like 'Oh well, you'll play this year but as soon as next year comes around, the injuries will heal up and you'll be back on the bench,"' he said. "I wanted to make sure that if I get a chance to get on that field. I am not com­ing off that field." 
Nineteen games later, Kurt Vollers is still starting and has never missed a start. But while Kurt Vallers is not a giant fixture at tackle for the Irish, he never wanted to play offense. When he came to Notre Dame, he wanted to stay small and he wanted to stay on defense. 
"Everyone said I was going to play otf ense in college but my big thing was that I was going to stay below 250 and be a defensive end," 6-foot-7, 324-pound Kurt Vollers said. 
Unfortunately for Kurt Vallers his genes were against him. His great-great-grandfather was close to seven feet tall while his great-great-great-grandfather was rumored to be more than seven feet tall. 
"We've got this picture of this guy sitting at a table and every­one else looks like they are midgets," John Vallers said. 
Thousands of calories a day and three and a half hours of off­season workouts four-five times a week quickly turned the slen­der freshman into the giant fifth­year senior of today. 
"It was hard work getting big­ger because I didn't want myself to," Kurt Vallers said. "Everyone else loved it except for me." 
The biggest thing Kurt Vollers missed on the offensive side of the ball was the glory. The aver­age fan doesn't really notice the offensive line until it makes a mistake. But defensive linemen · get to make tackles and cele­brate sacks. 
But now the more mature Kurt Vollers is more comfortable out­side the spotlight. 
"Only the people that count know [when he makes a good play)." Kurt Vollers said. "You aren't going to get the slap on the back from the guy at the bar but the people that matter know." 
Kurt Vollers knows. His father knows. And his coach knows. 
"Kurt Vallers is a guy that the upside was pretty high because of his body type, his quickness," Davie said. "It doesn't surprise me what he's done. Because he's matured, he's turned into a real­ly good football player." 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 

page4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 12, 2001 
--~ 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 1-3 AP: Unranked Coaches: Unranked 
Bob Davie 
I 
.. :,
,,, 

Oct.  USC  
Oct. 27  atBC  
Nov. 3  Tennessee  
Nov. 17  Navy  
Nov. 24  at Stanford  
Dec. 1  at Purdue  


f .. ..,... 
. ~: -\ ' . 
·.~s. ·.;:'.~: 
No. 
1 2 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 8 9 10 10 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 28 30 31 32 
33 
34 35 35 
36 
37 
38 
38 39 40 41 42 44 45 46 47 48 49 
50 
51 52 52 53 55 56 56 57 59 60 61 62 
63 64 
65 
66 
67 69 70 72 73 75 76 77 78 79 80 80 81 82 82 
83 84 
85 86 87 
88 
89 90 91 92 94 95 98 
99 

Davie head coach 
fifth season at Notre Dame career record: 
31-22 
at Notre Dame: 
31-22 
against West Virginia: 2-0 
Roster 
Name Pos. 
Jared Clark QB Carlos Pierre-Antoine ILB 
DanNovakov  QB  
Amaz Battle  R.  
Justin Smith  PS  
Ron Israel  ss  
David Givens  R.  
Carlyle Holiday  QB  
Lorenzo Crawford  R.  
Matt Krueger  FL  
Jason Beckstrom  CB  
Matt LoVecchio  QB  
Ryan Krueger  QB  
Tony Fisher  TB  
Nick Setta  K/P  
Gary Godsey  TE  
Clifford Jefferson  CB  
Abram Elam  ss  
Joey Hildbold  p  
Ronnie Rodamer  SE  
Glenn Earl  PS  
Gerome Sapp  ss  
Javin Hunter  SE  
Julius Jones  TB  
Chris Yura  TB  
Chad DeBolt  !LB  
Ryan Grant  RB  
Garron Bible  CB  
Donald Dykes  FS  
Rocky Boiman  OLB  
Dwayne Francis  FS  
Terrance Howard  TB  
Courtney Watson  ILB  
Vontez Duff  CB  
David Miller  K  
Tim O'Neill  TS  
Tom Lopienski  FB  
Dwight Ellick  C6  
Preston Jackson  CB  
Eric Nelson  FB  
Brandon Hoyte  !LB  
Jason Murray  FB  
Mike Goolsbv  LB  
Shane Walto~  CB  
Grant Irons  DE  
MattSarb  ss  
Corey Mays  !LB  
Mike McNair  FB  
Justin Tuck  OL8  
Derek Curry  !LB  
Cedric Hilliard  NG  
Tyreo Harrison  ILB  
Jeff Faine  C  
Mark Mitchell  OLB  
Jason Halvorson  DL  
Zachary Giles  OL  
John Crowther  C  
Pat Ryan  ILB  
Justin Thomas  OLB  
Brian Dierckman  IL6  
Darrell Campbell  DT  
Jesse Desplinter  LB  
Casey Robin  ex:;  
Brennan Curtin  OT  
Jeffrey Campbell  DE  
Sean Milligan  ex:;  
JW Jordan  C  
Ryan Gillis  ex:;  
Darin Mitchell  OL  
Jim Molinaro  OT  
Ryan Scarola  ex:;  
Mark LeVoir  TE  
Kurt Vollers  OT  
John Teasdale  OT  
Greg Pauly  DT  
Jordan Black  OT  
Sean Mahan  OT  
Adam Tibble  K  
Omar Jenkins  WR  
Jerome Collins  OLB  
Bernard Akatu  SE  
Matt Shelton  WR  
Josh Gentine  KIP  
John Owens  TE  
Billy Palmer  TE  
Brendan Hart  TE  
Jonathan Smith  WR  
Carlos Campbell  WR  
Matt Root  TE  
Brian Beidatsch  DL  
Jeff Thompson  DL  
Kyle Budinscak  DE  
AndyWisne  DT  
Ryan Roberts  DE  
Anthony Weaver  DE  
Jason Sapp  DE  

Ht. Wt. YR 
6-4 230 so 6-3 241 SR 6-1 215 JR 6-1 210 SR 5-11 197 SR 6-1 212 SR 6-3 212 SR 6-3 218 so 5-10 190 so 5-10 175 so 5-10 186 JR 6-4 205 so 5-9 186 SR 6-2 226 SR 5-11 175 JR 6-6 270 JR 5-9 176 SR 6-0 210 so 5-10 188 JR 6-4 210 so 6-1 210 JR 6-0 214 JR 6-0 191 SR 5-10 210 JR 6-0 225 JR 6-0 202 SR 6-1 198 FR 5-10 191 so 5-11 195 SR 6-4 240 SR 6-0 198 SR 6-1 195 SR 6-1 2.12 JR 5-11 192 so 5-11 208 SR 5-5 175 SR 
6-1 249 SR 5-11 170 FR 5-9 176 so 6-0 225 SR 6-0 219 FR 6-1 260 SR 6-3 240 so 5-11 186 SR 6-5 275 SR 5-11 200 SR 6-1 234 FR 6-0 237 SR 6-5 215 FR 6-3 228 so 6-2 290 JR 6-2 242 SR 6-3 296 JR 5-10 200 SR 6-2 240 JR 6-4 285 FR 6-2 242 SR 6-3 231 JR 6-1 245 JR 6-1 250 SR 6-4 2% JR 6-1 177 so 6-7 300 SR 6-8 305 JR 6-1 230 SR 6-4 295 JR 6-1 275 SR 6-3 296 JR 6-4 285 FR 6-6 295 JR 6-5 308 SR 6-7 310 FR 6-7 312 SR 6-5 305 SR 6-6 208 so 6-6 318 SR 6-3 292 SR 5-11 186 SR 6-2 180 FR 6-4 242 so 5-10 190 SR 6-1 170 FR 5-11 205 JR 6-3 260 SR 6-3 265 so 6-2 255 so 6-4 195 so 6-1 190 FR 6-6 225 FR 6-4 265 FR 6-5 265 FR 6-4 265 so 6-3 285 SR 6-2 262 SR 6-3 286 SR 6-3 250 so 
COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
Davie earned a huge win last week, but for the head coach of Notre Dame, the pressure never stops. However, his staff has been together for a while and it seems like they're genuinely working to turn this team around.  Last week, Holiday showed how much he had improved after a dis­asterous start at Texas A&M. He finished 10-for­13 passing and added a huge 67-yard touchdown run. The big question is if this young quarterback can stay poised when his team falls behind.  Fisher and Jones contin­ue to trade carries throughout the game., but Fisher's status is uncertain for Saturday. Last week, Holiday showed he can be a dan­gerous weapon running the pall.  So far this season, the longest completion the Irish have is a 19-yard pass. Rogers seems reluctant to call deep passes with a young quarterback. Instead he relies on short comple­tions needed to pick up key first downs.  
Lewis was born to  The Mountaineers like  
Not much is expected of Rodriguez in his first year at West Virginia. But then again, that's because he probably can't promise much.  throw. He's tossed 159 passes so far this year and completed 94 of them. However, he isn't a threat to run the ball -he has only gained 90 yards this year on the ground. He's also only thrown three touchdown  The Mountaineers have allowed an average of 225 yards on the ground so far this season. Nobody really stands out on the defensive line, but nobody really holds them back.  to play with nickel pack­ages. Already, they've intercepted 10 passes this year and have held opponents to 146 pass­ing yards. Sherrod is a big-time player in the secondary and is the Mountaineer's leading  
passes.  tackler.  
Davie keeps touting this year's team as the most ~;~{11r:\i'it·:,IJ~ep 11 , tP..Jir ;g Qitlifi'at talenf: 'ffuf then again, at least he has some talent to work with. Rodriguez doesn't.  Just because Lewis throws a lot doesn't mean he's any good at it, He's been picked off seven times. Holiday, meanwhile:, can create plays where non exist It doesn't matter if'bis passing is suspect, he makes up for it with his legs.  Quite possibly, this matchup coulddeter­mine the outcome of the game. Holiday's athleti­cism should give .the Irish the edge. but if Fisher isn't healthy, West Virginia wiU be able to focus on stopping the option that much more.  The Irish simply haven't shown they can control the passing game. In Givens and Hunter, they have the talent, but they don't throw downfield. The Mountaineer sec­ondary should be able to shut down Notre Dame's already non-existent passing attack.  

LLI 
:E 
ct 
Q 
LLI 
a: 
l­
o 
z 
ct
-
z
-
C, 
a: 
> 
1­
U)
LLI 
3: 
U)
-
U)
:::; 
ct 
z 
ct 

Look for the continued maturation of Carlyle 

West Virginia is in close competition with NavyHoliday to carry the Irish offense downfield for the worst team the Irish play this year. 
once again. With Tony Fisher ailing, Holiday's athleticism will make the 
Terrance Howard is due for a resurrection.
Irish 
Mountaineer defense look like a giant piece ofSpecial teams will come up big for the first swiss cheese. As long as Notre Dame stays in time this fall, sending the Mountaineers hik· the nickel and dime on defense, they shoulding home. 
win this game easily.
experts 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31Andrew Soukup 
Noah Am5tadter FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 33 West Virginia 10 sports editor West Virginia 17 associate sports editor 
f '"") 
Friday, October 12,2001 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
West Virginia Mountaineers 
Record: 2-3 AP: Unranked Coaches: Unranked 

West Virginia OFFENSE 
WIDE RECEIVER H 
12-Nastaal 
30-Abraham CORNERBACK 
~ 34-Duff 
15-JeffersonTAILBACK 
22-Coboume 
3-Wilson 
INSIDE LINEBACKER 
33-Watson 
41-Goolsby 
FREE 
SAFETY 
28-Dyl(u
RIGHT GUARD 
19-can
75-.Knell 
60-&rown 
RIGHT TACKLE 
68-Brown 
68-Berk 
-. ~'Wi-•
WIDE ' '~f,-:-3 ..·... 
RONG 
RECEIVE~, , . 
ETY 
28-P ~~ app 

MOUNTAINEER MOUNTAINEER 
SPECIAL TEAMS
RUSHING PASSING 
WEST VIRGINIA 200 l Schedule  
Sept. 1 at Boston College -L Sept. 8 Ohio -W Sept. 22 Kent-W Sept. 29 at Maryland -L Oct. 6 Virginia Tech -L Oct. 13 at Notre Dame Oct. 25 at Miami Nov. 3 Rutgers Nov. 10 at Syracuse Nov. 17 Temple Nov. 24 Pittsburgh  

No. 
1 2 3 4 5 6 
7 
7 8 9 
10 10 11 
12 
13 14 15 16 16 17 18 19 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
INTANGIBLES 
26 27 28 29 
30 
31 32:z 33 34
0 
35
-I 
:a 36 
"' 
37 
37
C 
38 
> 39 
40
s: 
41 42 
"' 
43 44 45 46 46 47 48
~ 
"' 
49 t./) 
50 
-I 
52 
-< 
56 
57 58
:a 
59
Ci) 
60 
-
z 
61
-
62
> 
63 
66 
67 
68 
70 
71 
75 76 
J> 77 
80
z 
> 
81 
82 
-!:c 
83 
t./) 
84 84 85 
(A 
86 
87 88 89 90 91 93 95 
96 
97 
Rich Rodriguez 
fifth season at 
West Virginia 
career record: 
47-41 
at West Virginia: 
2-3 
against Notre Dame: 0-0 
0 

Rodriguez head coach 
Roster 
Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 
James Davis DE 6-3 215 JR Richard Bryant DB 6--0 175 SR Quincy Wilson RB 5-10 210 so Lewis Daniels DB 6-1 190 JR Antonia Brown WR 5-10 170 SR Grant Wiley LB 6-1 225 so Angel Estrada DB 6-2 190 JR Matt McCullough K 6-5 185 so Brad Allen p 5-10 190 so Shawn Swindall WR 5-9 170 SR Bunter Cross QB 6-1 202 JR Shawn Hackett DB 6-1 195 SR Brian King DB 6--0 175 so 
A.J. Nastasi WR 6--0 185 JR Charlie Macinnis p 5-9 185 SR Luke Wallace DB 5-11 180 so Chris Flanagan WR 6-2 185 so Mark Fazzolari 6--0 185 JR
p 
Mike Henshaw DB 5-11 180 so Scott McBrien QB 6-2 180 so Rasheed Marshall QB 6-1 185 so Lance Frazier DB 5-10 185 so Scott Beresford WR 6-3 210 JR Cassel Smith RB 6--0 195 so Phil Braxton WR 6-3 200 JR AvonCboume RB 5-9 190 JR Cooper Rego RB 5-JO 190 SR Issac Irby WR 5-9 170 so Hikee Johnson RB 6-2 210 so Joe Scritchfierd DB 5-10 · 175 so James Woodruff DB 5-10 170 JR Rick Sherrod DB 6-3 195 SR Mike Vemillo RB 5-11 185 so Brenden Rauh K 5-9 180 SR Seth Abraham .WR 5-11 175 SR 
Bill Martin DB 6-1 . 185 JR Ben Collins LB 5-11 210 JR Shawn Davis DB 5-9 180 SR Corey McIntyre LB 6--0 245 SR Jeremy Knapp TE 6--0 240 SR Adam King FB 5-11 230 so Zach Anglin p 6--0 200 SR Robert Spencer DB 6-0 185 JR Todd James K 6-3 205 so Mike Page WR 5-8 165 JR Ed Velickoff LB 6-1 240 so Jermaine Thaxton WR 6-1 205 JR Kevin Freeman DE 6-3 235 JR MoeFofana FB 5.11 225 so Tory Johnson TE 6-4 255 so KyleKaden LB 6-3 235 SR Joe Mirault LB 6-1 230 so Josh McMillen LB 6-2 210 SR Lawrence Audena DB 6--0 ]80 so Terrence Johnson LB 5-11 215 SR Jay Garrett LB 5-11 235 JR Frank English LB 6-1 220 SR Quentin Swain LB 6--0 230 so Zack Dillow C 6-2 270 JR Chad Lavender LS 6-0 245 so Ken Sandor OT 6-4 295 JR Cortez McNeil DT 6-3 270 SR Tim Brown OT 6-5 295 so Geoff Lewis OT 6-4 285 so Brian Chlop DT 6-5 275 so Greg Mitleider OT 6-4 285 so Josh Kelly C 6-5 275 JR Ben Timmons 0G 6-6 275 so Jeff Berk OT 6-5 285 so Jason Parmer 0G 6-5 275 so Justin Williams C 6-3 290 so Brad Knell 0G 6-5 290 SR Jason Brooks 0G 6-4 290 SR Lance Nimmo OT 6-6 285 JR Harold Leath WR 6-4 190 so Ryan Thomas TE 6-6 235 so Tim Frost TE 6-4 265 JR Chris Knapper WR 5-10 180 JR Darnell Glover TE 6-3 220 JR Blake Matesic WR 5-10 193 so 
Shannon WashingtonDT 6-5 285 SR John Pennington WR 5-10 170 so Antwan Lake DT 6-5 285 SR Shawn Terry WR 6-3 175 SR Tim Love DE 6-4 265 JR Jason Davis DT 6-5 275 JR Adam Lehnortt LB 6-4 225 so Cecil Hagwood DE 6-5 235 so David Upchurch DT 6-4 275 JR Sedrick Lewis DT 6-2 300 JR Shane Watkins DT 5-11 290 JR 
Last week, the Irish sec­ 
The defensive front is playing the best it has all year. Roberts might see increased playing time at defensive end if Irons spends more time on the sideline. Weaver has been rock solid all year long.  ondary had a pair of interceptions and gener­ally controlled Pittsburgh's receivers. . Their nickel and dime package also worked extremely well. Elam and Duff have made big contributions despite  While the return game hasn't been as dominant as last year, it's still pretty solid. Hildbold is doing a good job punting and Setta looks very impressive as he bangs out 40-yard field goals.  Notre Dame finally has its first win under its belt, so things are a little bit easier. Plus, the Irish are playing at home.  
their inexperience.  
Cobourne carries the entire weight of the Mountaineer rushing game on his shoulders. He averages 4.2 yards a carry and at 138 total carries, has the most carries of any Mountaineer running back.  Davie credits Rodriguez with inventing the spread offense. West Virginia often has four receivers in the game and they spread the ball around. However, most of their completions are short passes.  The Mountaineers don't have a dominant punter, a flashy return man or an awesome kicker. But they do have guys that get the job done. Rauh is 7-for-9 in field goals and Fazzolari averages 42 yards a punt.  Trying to win in Notre Dame Stadium is tough -very tough. And it's especially harder for a first-year head coach like Rodriguez who isn't expected to win Saturday by anyone in his program.  
Simply put, W~st Virginia doesn't focus on the run, so it isn't very good at iL The Irish should have no trouble contrQJling Cobourne.  Another spread offense and another prolific pas­ing team awaits the Irish. i:X;;;:1stepped up last week and controlled Pittsburgh. But nobody knows if it can do it again.  While the Mountaineers special teams unit is adequate. it can't change the game like Notre Dame!s can. The best big-play capability of the Irish lies in their return game -they have to be watched and they can always turn lose a big return.  It's a lot easier for Holiday to play whnn he's in front ofa friendly crowd. Playing at home is a tremendous advan­tage for the Irish team as a whole, arid it could make for a long day for Rodriguez.  


West Virginia is just a flat out bad football 
Davie hit the nail on the head earlier this week-: The Irish team and the Irish have finally built some finally have what they were desperately missing in momentum. Look for the Irish running attack games past -momentum. Sometimes momentum is just to ground down the Mountaineer defense and what a team needs and West Virginia doesn't have the the Irish secondary to make some big plays for talent to overcome that this week. The Mountaineers are the second week in a row. coming off of their worst home shutout in nearly 40 years. West Virginia will come out sluggish and never
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38 
recover.
West Virginia 14 Kerry Smith 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 assistant managing editor West Virginia 17 
Mike Connolly editor in chief 

Il 
I 

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 12, 200 I 


Voted "BEST DELIVERED PIZZA,, -1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997"', 
Cover-ups ta1nish Notre Dame's image 
Notre Dame football says it does things the right way. Head coach Bob Davie frequently brags about the character of his football team. 
"We're still at a place, Notre Dame, that I think does care 

about gradua­ Mike Connolly  
tion  
rates, does consider  Outside Looking In  
it an  
honor  

that you win an academic acheivement award, does care about the GPA of its players, does care that you have a bunch of kids doing it the right way," Davie said. 
The coaches recruit good kids. They play hard on the field. They go to class. They good get grades. They do things the "right way." 
And for this reason, mil­lions of Americans have fallen in love with Notre Dame. There are plenty of winning programs, plenty of schools with several national championships. But only one Notre Dame. Only one school with its own national television contract. Only one school has one movie about its most famous coach and 
r------,
I 7 Large, 1 Topping I 
I $8.990R I 
I 2 Large, 2 Topping I 
L __:.!_3!: __ .J 
r ------,
Manager's Special I I Large, 2 Topping and I I a 2 Lifer I I Coca-Cola Classic I 
L--$~=-­
.J
r------, .-------,
I  Late Night Special  
I  9pm  -close  
I  Large One Topping  

$7.99
L ______ 
another about its most thing. The shameful part is unlikely player. when Notre Dame tries to 
Many members of the cover up the indescretions football team are the schol­of some. ar-athletes that Notre The very existence of Dame portrays them as. these bad apples does not They are well-rounded, make Notre Dame less of a intelligent men who are great institution. also very good at football. But the cover-ups do. The 
Twenty of 21 freshman fact that Notre Dame tried football players scored to hide these things. The higher than an 80 on the fact that Notre Dame does the first calculus test of the not do everything in its year, according to Davie. power to expel or punish 
This is the image that those who break the rules America loves about Notre does make Notre Dame less Dame and for the most part of a great place. it is true. Every time Notre Dame 
But lying beneath that expels a rapist, punishes a layer is a frightening world thief or deals with discipli­
of half  nary  
truths, cover­ups and deception.  When Notre Dame breaks its promise, when Notre  problemshead-on should be  
Cooper  Dame covers up the prob­ a cause  
Rego's return to campus this weekend  lems to preserve the image, the image is  of cele­bration. It is a  
only high­ destroyed.  reaffir­ 
lights that  mation  
dark side of  that  

Notre Dame. Rego was Notre Dame is a place that banned from campus four does things the right way years ago but the reasons and won't tolerate those for that ban were always who don't. kept quiet. Now he is But every time Notre returning to campus and Dame lies, every time Notre Dame is still keeping Notre Dame lets another its mouth shut. football player accused of 
Rego was banned for a sexual assault slip through reason and Notre Dame the system without punish­should take pride in ment, Notre Dame only expelling students for terri­hurts itself. ble things. It should not Only an idiot would cover them up and try to believe that bad people do hide them. It should not be not go to sd10ol at Notre ashamed that sometimes Dame. Only a fool would its students ?o the wrong think that rape does not 
Papa Predicts: 
NOTRE DAME West Virginia  21-14- 
Notre Dame 271-1177  Saint Mary's 271-7272  
Monday-Thursday 11 am ­1 am Fridav-11 am -3am (ND store open all night -Limited Oe~ivery area 3am ­11am} Saturday 11 am -3 am Sunday Noon ­1 am  

occur at Notre Dame. Only those who view Notre Dame through gold-tinted glasses would believe that there aren't some bad peo­ple who run through the Notre Dame tunnel. 
Everyone else knows that Notre Dame isn't perfect. Everyone else knows that bad things happen every­where. Everyone else expects Notre Dame to deal with these problems. 
But when Notre Dame breaks its promise, when Notre Dame covers up the· problems to preserve the image, the image is destroyed. 
Doing the right thing goes far beyond presenting an image. Doing the right thing goes beyond having 95 percent of your players living up the an image. Doing the right thing means seeking out those who tarnish the image. It means dealing with prob­lems and not covering them up. 
Most of the people at Notre Dame and on the football team are good peo­ple. But if Notre Dame cov­ers up the blemishes, hides the problems and sells a lie, even those good people are tarnished. 
Mike Connolly can be reached at connolly.28@nd.edu. The views of this column are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Oe/f"t,.e,/#'11f Tk(!,~t Rzza./ 
I I Grand Papa I I I 1 Extra Large, II I 2 Toppings I .J L $10.99 .J 
"The ntost popular # on campus" 
1999, 2000, 2001 
r ------,
MAKE IT A MEAL I 1 Large, 1 Topping I I Breadslicks I I 2 Lifer I 
L-_$}.:!!__ .J 
.-------, 
Monday and Tuesday
I I 
$1 Breadsficks with any
I I 
pizza purchase
I I
L ______ J 
game hype 

Bob Davie Irish head coach 
"Once we get this ship moving. I don't see anyone stopping us. ,. 

Tom Lopinski Irish fullback 
..We've got to play better football and I know everyone realizes 
that ... 



..We do have what amounts · 
to some momentum right now. ,, 

Kurt Vollers Irish lineman 
"Anytime you win, things go a lot smoother 
at practice. ,, 

Rich Rodriguez Mountaineer head 
coach 

*Category not offered in 1998 
' .,-. ' ' . 

· Friday, October 12, 200I A LOOK AT THIS WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION page 7 
AP poll 
GAME OF THE WEEK 
p1lints. 1,739 1,719 
1,700 
1,577 1;437 · 1,421 
1;369 
1,240 1,160 
t148. 1;128 978 790 756 670 529 
509 
480 443 39 381 
360 
299 247 203 
team 1 Florida (30) 2 Miami (23) 3 Oklahoma (16) 4 Nebraska (2) 
5 Oregon 6 ViginJa Tech 7 UCLA 8 Fresno State (1) 
9 South Caronna 
10 Washington 11 Texas 12· Michigan 13 Tennessee· 14 Florida State 15 Georgia Tech 16 Clemson 11·. Purdue 
18· BYU 
19 Georgia 20 Colorado 21 Ohio State 22 Maryland 23 Stanford 24 Kansas State 25 TexasA&M 
record 
5-0 4-0 5-0 
6-0 5-0 5-0 
4s0 5-0 5-0 4•0 4-1 
4-1 
3-1 3-1 4-1 3-1 4-0 
5-0 
3-1 
4-1 3-1 
5-0 
3-0 2-2 •· 5-0 

ESPN/USA Today poll 
By GREG LADKY 
Sports Writer 
Wide Right. 
These two words made this interstate rivalry one of the favorites across the nation. In 1991 and 1992 Florida State lost its only games of the year to Miami on two last minute field goal attempts that went wide right. 
From 1995 to 1999, Florida State beat Miami five straight times, appar­ently erasing its fans' wide right nightmares. 
But last year, the night­
mare occurred again. 
Seminole kicker Matt 


Munyon kicked a 49-yard field goal that flew wide right and the Hurricanes won 27-24 in the Orange Bowl. 
But the Seminoles got the last laugh, just not on. the field. 
The BCS voted Florida State into the national championship game instead of Miami to play Oklahoma. The No. 2 Hurricanes are still upset, and they want pay­back this Saturday against the No. 14 Seminoles. 
Miami has the nation's second longest winning streak at 14. Florida State has a 54 game 
OTHER TOP GAMES 
Washington at UCLA
around 
Five Pac-Ten teams are undefeated, but one will have to go down this Saturday as No. 10 Washington battles No. 7 UCI.A in Pasadena. 
the dial 
Three of Washington's four victories were decided by five points or less. Quarterback Cody Pickett separated his right shoulder in the second quarter of last week's USC
West Virginia at Notre Dame 
game. Backup Taylor Barton led the Huskies to a last-sec­
1:30 p.m., NBC 
ond 27 -24 comeback victory against the Trojans. Barton 
will start this week due to Pickett's injury. UClA routed Oregon State 38-7 in Corvallis Sept 29. 
Miami at Florida State 
11 a.m., CBS Heisman candidate DeShaun Foster rushed 31 times for
Purdue at Michigan 
14 7 yards and three touchdowns. 
11:00 a.m., ESPN "He's the closest to Marcus Allen I've seen, but fa..c;ter," 
. Iowa at Michigan State UCLl\ coach Bob Toledo said. 11:00 a.m., ESPN2 
UCI.A's defense held Ohio State to two field goals and surrendered only 220 yards to Oregon State -and 63
South Carolina at Arkansas 
were on the final drive. 
2:30 p.m., ABC 
The Huskies can't depend on a miracle comeback to beat
Boston College at Virginia Tech 
the Bruins. Due to both teams' tough schedules so far, the 5:30 p.m., ESPN2 
winner of this game may slip into the top two or three in the first BCS rankings that will be released on Oct 22. 
unbeaten streak at Doak Campbell stadium, with the last loss being the 17­16 "wide righter" against Miami in 1991. 
The Hurricanes cruised through their first four games. One reason is an easy schedule. But there is no denying the Hurricanes have an awe­some talent level. Quarterback Ken Dorsey, a leading candidate for the Heisman Trophy. has thrown for 1,066 yards and eight touchdowns so far this year. 
The Seminoles have been limited by injuries this year, especially at wide receiver. They lost 
-
Hobert Morgan and Anquan Boldin to torn ACL injuries before the season. 
"We don't have the depth we did in the past," Florida State head coach Bobby Bowden said. 
Seminole quarterback Chris Rix leads all fresh­men in the nation with 838 passing yards. 
On paper, the Hurricanes are a much better football team than the injury-plagued ­Seminoles. But if the Hurricanes think they can merely show up in order to leave Doak Stadium with a win, their national title hopes will be gone. 
Purdue at Michigan 
There is a three-way tie atop the Big Ten standings. Two of those three collide this weekend as No. 17 Purdue takes on No. 12 Michigan in the Big House. 
The Boilermakers look to improve to 5-0 for the first time since 1945. Purdue is still a passing team with an explosive offense. However, its defense is just as good, led by Akin Ayodele and Matt Mitrione along the defen­sive line. The defense gave up just 207 yards to Iowa last week. 
This week is homecoming in Ann Arbor. 
"The Homecoming is. supposed to he a guaranteed win," Michigan head coach Lloyd Carr said. "They are the best team we have played." 
Michigan already played No. 10 Washington and Illinois. 
Michigan has the worst-ranked pass defense in the Big Ten. They must tighten up against Purdue. The run defense and offense are solid. Quarterback John Navarre threw for 246 yards and running back B.J. Askew ran for 122 in a 20-0 whitewash of Penn State last Saturday. 


page 8 The Observer . ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 12, 2001 
I l 
JI 
l-
I 

i I 
l
·d 
! t 
I I 

' ; 
' I 
' > . 
: I 
) 
) 
! / 
. I 
I J : 
; i 
, I 
' I I 
, : I 
I . 
t { 
I ~ 
) . I 1 ) 
I • )
' ·• 
.t4 .1.lfillion Reasons A Single Store ® 

One Stop Shopping For all your tailgating needs 

• 
drinks • ice • coolers 

• 
chips • snacks 

• 
hot d99s • hamburgers 

• 
fried 'chicken • sausage 


,. 
• 
bread . buns 

• 
sandwiches 

• 
deli trays. 

• 
salads 

• 
grills 

• 
accessories 

• 
folding chairs 

• 
tables 


Visit us at: 
5020 Grape Road 3600 N. Portage Road 
Open 24/7 for all your shopping needs 
*Exclusive to Meijer* 
Team Notre Dame Hats, Visors and Apparel *Game day attire *Car flags *\Vindo\v clings *Irish Sweatshirts & T-Shirts *Football Yearbooks *ND Women's Championship Basketball Videos \.nd much, much n1ore... 
Enter to win!!! One Lucky Winner Will Receive a Notre Dame Football Locker Room Tour 
Enter October i 11 through October 20th at the TEAM NOTRE DAME display 
Visit Store For Details 








