

Online 101 
To Move or Not To Move 
Need extra homework help? The Internet 

Wednesday
Columnist Eric Long examines 
offers a number ofWeb sites dedicated to 
the advantages oflife on campus 
assisting with academic pursuits. 
in a Zahm Hall single. 
MARCH 21, 
Scene . page 12-13 
Viewpoint . page 1 D 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 106 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Alums recruit Bush for ND Commencement speech 
B11 OF ITALY 

ND 2001-2002 tuition hike lowest since 1959 

ByJASON McFARLEY News Editor 

In what Notre Dame officials are touting as the lowest tuition increase in more than 40 years, the University recently announced a 
ND Tuition, 
nearly 5 per­

c e n t Room and increase in Board Costs undergradu­
. 1999-2000: 
ate tuition, a 
$27,660
change that 

. 2000-2001:
will ring up 
average $29,100 

costs at . 2001-2002: 
$30,530 for 
$30,530
the 2001 · 
2002 academic year. 

The 4. 9 percent hike, announced in a recent letter to the parents of freshman, sopho­more and junior students, trans­lates to a $1,430 increase in cur­rent tuition and fees. It raises tuition to $24,320 and room and board to $6,210. 
The current cost of a Notre Dame undergraduate education stands around $29,100 after last years 5.2 percentjump. 
For about the past four decades, the University's Board of Trustees has approved annual increases in tuition. This year's increase is the lowest since 1959, when there was no increase from the previous year. 
·•Quality higher education is expensive, and we are deter­mined to maintain the level of excellence which has given a Notre Dame degree its special value," said University President 
Father Edward Malloy in an early-March letter to parents. ..At the same time, we bench­mark with peer institutions to make sure we are in touch with 
best practices in cost control and 
efliciency." 

Officials said Notre Dame 
charges remain far below those 
ofsimilar private institutions. 

Dennis Moore, director of 
Public Relations and 
Information, said the most 
recent tuition increase is tied to 
the record-breaking fundraising 
success of the Generations cam­
paign and continued growth in 
the University endowment. 

"There's no doubt the 
Generations campaign was 
instrumental in this record low 
increase," Moore said of the 
three-year venture that raised 
more than $1 billion. "The 
growth of the endowment also 
played a large part." 

Moore said the endowment and Generations have also con­tributed to the University's abili­ty to meet students' need. He said increased resources now allow Notre Dame to meet the full financial need of undergrad­uate students. 
According to a 2001 annual report prepared by the Oflice of Financial Aid, the amount of scholarship aid awarded annual­ly by the University to under­graduate students increased by 
21.5 percent in the past year. 

..We've gone from a position of being non-competitive to the point where we can fully meet the demonstrated need of our students,'' Moore said. 
In addition to undergraduate costs, the Board of Trustees at a recent meeting approved three other tuition increases. Graduate school tuition is up 4.9 percent to $24,220, and tuition for the Law School and Masters of Business Administration pro­gram is up 4.8 percent to $24,920. 
. White House has yet to confirm that President will address Class of 2001 
By CHRISTINE KRALY Senior Staff Writer 
The University is awaiting an official White House announcement that President George W. Bush will deliver the keynote address at this year's May 20 Commencement, said Dennis Brown, asso­ciate director of Notre Dame Public Relations and Information. 
Several unconfirmed reports suggest that the president has accepted the invita­tion to speak. 

Though Brown said a speaker has been scheduled, the University has made no announcement and official confirmation of 
Bush's spring com­mencement speech schedule is expected to come directly from the White House. 
..All that we can say is that we've made an invitation and that we'll follow in the 


White House's lead Bush from here," said Brown. ·'Typically they do all of their com­mencement announcements at the same time. Past practice has been a gang 
PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 

Students gather in front of South Dining Hall to check out a representation of Bernini's Four Rivers Fountain, located in the Plazza Navona in Rome. The sculpture was part of a display in the lobby of Bond Hall during Expo Roma, and architecture students decided to reassem­ble It on South Quad for fun. 
announcement." 
The White House will deliver a list offive or six of the president's scheduled speech­es, although there is no telling how the new administration with handle the announcement. 
According to Chris Mehl, press secretary for Indiana Third District Congressman Tim Roemer's office, there is no confirma­tion yet that Bush will speak. On Dec. 22 Roemer traveled to Austin to meet with Bush, armed with a letter urging him to accept the invitation to speak at Notre 
1
Dame. 
Five Notre Dame alumni congressmen, including Roemer, sent a letter to Bush Feb. 21 encouraging the president to make a trip to South Bend. 

..We urge you to give this invitation your favorable consideration," the congressmen said in their letter to the president. 
Roemer also paid a visit to the White House this past Thursday and reportedly pulled Bush aside to lobby again for the commencement speech. 
Bush would be the fifth president to accept an invitation to speak at Commencement; his father, George Bush Sr., was the most recent in 1992. 
Bush would also receive an honorary degree from the University, as did Dwight Eisenhower, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and Bush Senior, who have all spoken at Notre Dame. Franklin Roosevelt and Gerald Ford received honorary degrees at times other than Commencement. 

page 2 

The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, March 21, 200 I 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A Sage King of 
• 
our time 
It all started with an email. 
Prior to break, I wrote my professor an email addressing a problem I was having with our class' courseware. Frustrated with the constant "Access Denied" box that appeared with my every attempt to enter my 
dropbox, I was feeling slightly frustrated. 
In his reply, my professor offered to talk to OIT and get my courseware prob­lem straightened out. He assured me that everything would be fixed in just a few days. 

However. unlike most Maureen replies from most profes­Smithe sors, my professor closed his with a genuine -and 
Associate
quite unusual -question: 
News Editor
"How are you?" 
I was stunned. 
I could not remember the last time a professor asked me how I was doing. Without reference to the class or the homework or even the courseware, he sought to make a connection with me. He showed legitimate concern for me and my well being. He cared! 
There are more than 70 students in our class, and he knows everyone's name. Since day one, he has made an honest effort to be our friend. 
Unfortunately, in the mad rush to get as much done as possible in as little time possible. we often forget what it feels like to be a human. We forget how to interact with each other. 
My professor remembers -and everyday he reminds us to interact with the humans around us. Perhaps it is only fitting that he is a profes­sor of ancient Chinese philosophy, a study that focuses intently on the perfectibility of the human being. In a sense, he is living his own daily lessons. 
For example, the philosophy of Xunzi urges followers to imitate the example of "the right person." My professor is the best example on this campus of "the right person." He repre­sents the link between teaching and leading. 
In congruence with followers of the Mohist 
tradition, my professor extends love and com­
passion to everyone. His heart has no limits. 
And unlike Mengzi, who recognizes that all 
humans have the capacity to harness The Way 
(although most will not attain it) my professor 
has faith that we all will find truth. Today after 
class I spent an enlightening 20 minutes with 
him, discussing some important issues outside 
of the class topic. He made himself available 
for me to help me find my own truths. 
There are a handful of professors I've had 
during the past 2 1/2 years who significantly 
impacted my personal growth, but ever since 
that particular email with my philosophy pro­
fessor. my expectation for Notre Dame profes­
sors has risen dramatically. Professors should 
show sincere concern for their students. 
Professors should care. 
My Chinese philosophy professor is a Sage 
King for our time. He is a leader and a teacher 
and a follower. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Laura Kelly  
Nate Phillips  Graphics  
Sam Derheimer  Kary Hall  
Sports  Production  
Molly McVoy  Jeff Balcruzak  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Lauren Beck  Peter Richardson  

The Obmver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exccp1 during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Event: St. Joseph County  . Event: Holocaust Film  
Tree Sales Program, the  Symposium, DeBartolo  
Soil and Conservation  Hall 102. 7 p.m.  
District, all day.  . Concert: ND Glee Club  
. _Meeting: Rotary Club of  Spring Concert,  
South Bend Weekly  Washington Hall. 8 p.m.  
Meeting. Century Center,  . Event: Acoustic Cafe,  
noon.  LaFortune, 9 p.m.  

Friday 
. 
Movie: ..Shakespeare in Love," DeBartolo 155, 8 p.m. 

. 
Movie: "Oh Brother, Where Art Thou?," DeBartolo 101, 8 p.m. 


Saturday 

. 
Event: No Greater Love Retreat, Campus Ministry building, 10 a.m. 

. 
Movie: "American Beauty", DeBartolo 155, 8 p.m. 


OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Syracuse students join evangelism group 
PANAMA CITY BEACH, Fla. 
With 1,500 members of Campus Crusade for Christ gathered in the Edgewater Beach Resort's ballroom, it was a time to pump up the group with glowing testimonials, as students eagerly lined up to share stories of how they led someone to Christ that day. 
It was a time when emcee Robert Green reminded the crowd: "We want Him to be a priority -not an after­thought -this week." 
It was a time when Michael Ramos, a Campus Crusade staff member, dis­cussed plans to host a three-on-three basketball tournament and tug-of-war matches. Crusaders mingled with the beach crowd that gathered March 14, striking up conversations and filling out surveys. 
..We want Him to be a 
priority -not an after­
thought -this week... 
Robert Green Campus Crusader for Christ 

"We've got an opportunity to satu­rate the beach," Ramos said, "so let's just sweep it." 
The Crusaders converged on the Florida panhandle for the Big Break 2001 conference, a week of evangeliz­ing on the beach. The conference includes collegiate groups for three consecutive weeks in March. Twenty­five students from Syracuse University attended the second week of Big Break, staying in Panama City Beach from March 10 to 16. 
The SU group took a 27-hour trip on a Fullington Trailways bus named "Making Memories." On the ride down to Panama City Beach. they stopped to pick up three Crusaders from Ithaca and four from Boston, and fast food for nourishment. 
Along the way, they prayed many times: for the trip, for the people they would meet, for each other. 
Each carried awell-worn Bible. the pages marked with Post-it notes and selections from the fine print under­lined. 
In the mornings and evenings, they gathered in the resort's ballroom with all the other Crusaders for two-hour praise and worship sessions. 
DARTHMOUTH UNIVERSITY UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Grand jury probes into murders 
HANOVER, N.H. 

A 19-member investigative grand jury heard testi­mony Monday from two hometown friends of Robert Tulloch and James Parker -the two teens charged with two counts of first-degree murder of Half and Susanne Zantop. A friend of Tulloch and Parker, Gaelen McKee, 15, had little to say after the long grand jury session, which took place behind close doors. "Yeah, it was tiring," McKee said after leaving Grafton Superior Court in Haverhill with his father, Marc. New Hampshire Attorney General Philip McLaughlin, who attended Monday's session in court, declined to comment about any of the pro­ceedings or any aspect of the investigation. "I cannot make any comment on today's activities," McLaughlin said after the hearing. The investigative grand jury, which will reconvene for a second day this morning, apparently questioned at least one of the witnesses about the suspects' familiarity with knives. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWealher• forecast for davtime conditions and high temoerntures 
H  L  
Thursday  ~  55  ·32  
Friday  Q ,,,,,  48  30  
Saturday  Q·=·~:::·.:::·  43  26  
Sunday  Q ··=···=··  43  29  
Monday  Q ,,,,,  46  30  

Q,~,Q__q ~ Q (f ~ ~ 
Showers T-stcxms Rain Aurries Snow Jee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Anocialfld PreSJJ GraphlCl!J/w,t 
Recreational use of Ritalin grows 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
According to the recent University of Michigan study "Monitoring the Future," adolescents are increasingly abusing methlyphenidate, the drug more commonly known as Ritalin, in order to study longer, party harder and suppress their appetites. Ritalin is a mild stimulant most commonly prescribed to school-age children to control Attention Deficit Disorder. But the drug is sold for about $3 to $5 per pill on the black market. University students, like many across the country, are willing to pay for Ritalin's varied effects including appetite suppres­sion. wakefulness. increased focus for studying and euphoria. Abusers either consume Ritalin in pill form. crush the pill and snort it or mix the pill in water and inject the mixture. "I would not be sur• prised to see Ritalin at any frat party or house party. It is really prevalent," said an LSA sophomore who requested that her name not be printed. "Ritalin can do whatever you want it to," she added. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather«> forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 21. 
ee

•• •e •
0 2001 AccuWeathw, Inc. COI.D WARM STATIOWIRY 
Preuure: 

® © D 0 D D D D 
HllJh Low St,ov..•t• Ratn T1torms Fl..-Snow lo• Sunny P!. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vi.t ,<ssoc,ated Press  
Atlanta  39  36  Las Vegas  80  57  Portland  57  38  
Baltimore  49  37  Memphis  53  40  Sacramento  77  52  
Boston  37  30  Milwaukee  47  34  St. Louis  56  38  
Chicago  50  35  New York  45  35  Tampa  70  53  
Houston  68  45  Philadelphia  51  38  Wash DC  50  38  


Wednesday, March 21, 200 I 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Walk stimulates third world hunger problems 
. Student Diversity Board to begin new program to sponsor Mexican children 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
Saint Mary's Editor 
The newly formed Student Diversity Board (SDB) presented students with a walk through the reality of a starving nation Tuesday, kicking off one of its first major events of the month of March. 
Through 
interactive 
stations stu­"It provides an exchange Students 
dents got a for the kids as well need a folder glimpse into for each
as the student and
the lives of class and if
helps the children get 
famished peo­they don't ple. One sta­through school ... ·• have it then tion depicted they can't go how starving to class,"
Sister Linda Kors 
children said Sister
director, Spec Unica Resource
become mal­Linda Kors,
and Volunteer Center
nourished to the point of losing their eyesight and forming other vita­min deficiency diseases. Other stations gave detailed informa­tion on the contaminated water third-world nations consume and their lack of resources. 
Along with showing the hard­ships of starving nations, the interactive walk also presented potential solutions to the prob­lem. One of the stations was designated to provide informa­tion on groups and organiza­tions students can get involved with to stop the hunger prob­lem. 
SDB, working along with the Student Volunteer Advisory Board, hopes to jump start a program to sponsor a child from Guadalupe, Mexico. The Los Hijos y Las Hijas de Santa Maria would eventually pair Saint Mary's students with one of the 60 children involved in the pro­gram. Sponsorship includes let­ter writing and fundraisers, in hopes the children involved will be able to stay in school. 
.. It provides an exchange for the kids as well as the student and helps get the children through school providing them with food like rice and beans and school supplies. 
director of 
the Spec 
U n i c a Resource and Volunteer Center. 
Aside from sponsoring a child, Saint Mary's students have taken a local approach to Hunger Awareness. Students have volunteered to give up their dinner and have the cost of that dinner is donated to a local charity. The hope is that students giving up their meal demonstrate a greater appreci­ation for what many starving people go through everyday. 
"Over 300 people have signed up and the money will go to the Indiana Food Bank," said SOB president Akmaral Omarova. 

net 
6the
Neys 
friends don't lat friends drive drunk 
U.S. Deportmant of Transportotion 

Internet service fails again 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
An outage that barred Notre Dame Internet users from accessing Web sites outside the cam­pus network remained in effect early this morn­ing, marking at least the fourth server failure this academic year. 
Administrators in the Office of Information Technologies said Tuesday night that they were unsure of the cause for the disruption and were unclear about when the problem would be resolved. 
Computer operator Brandon Bauer, who was working to fix the failure Tuesday, said the prob­lem was likely linked with a downed router at Genuity, the University's Chicago-based service provider. 
"We don't have a specific cause yet; the router that's down in Chicago carries our service," Bauer said. 
The outage began around 9:30 p.m. and pre­vented users from accessing Web pages outside the nd.edu domain and sending e-mail to anyone outside the University community. 

"The local campus network is fine, but if you try to contact a \Veb site past campus, you're not going to get anything," Bauer said. 
Genuity officials said Tuesday they were still trouble-shooting but it would not take long to restore the router, according to Bauer. 
Tuesday's interruption in service was the fourth in a string of Internet outages dating back to the beginning of the academic year. 
On Sept. 12, an extended outage of the University's e-mail server brought campus online communications to a standstill for nearly a full day. 
On Nov. 6 and 7, a 36-hour failure posed prob­lems similar to the Tuesday outage. 
Scattered outages -both scheduled and unex­pected -have also disrupted campus Internet access throughout the year. 
Most recently, a planned outage of the University's Webmail server shut down e-mail usage on March 11 and 12. Bauer said that event was unrelated to Tuesday's outage. 
Project engenders discussion 
ByJASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
A mock newspaper distrib­uted Tuesday and a set of two banners to be hung today are part of a project intended to raise awareness about campus gender relations. 
The efforts are tied to the Dave Clark Bachelor of Fine Arts Project and kick off a half-semester-long undertak­ing a Notre Dame senior. 
"The project will be addressing various social fac­tors at Notre Dame which contribute to the poor state of gender relations," Clark said in an e-mail to The Observer. 
Today Clark said he expects to hang the first set of two banners on acade­mic buildings in prominent loca­tions on campus. The banners will hang for a week and intro­duce the Notre Dame com­munity to the topics the pro­ject will address. 

On Tuesday. Clark distrib­uted "The Observed" to each Notre Dame's 27 residence halls. 
An obvi­ous imi ta­

"The project will be
tion of The 

Observer, addressing various social the two­factors at Notre Dame page paper 
which contribute to 
featured 

the poor state of
articles on 

single-sex gender relations.·· halls and parietals Dave Clark causing 
senior creating the Dave 
divisions 

Clark Bachelor of 
between the 

Fine Arts Project
sexes as well as the University's alleged lack of female faculty and seemingly male-dominat­ed environment. The articles quote campus students and faculty members and are 

Courses, Workshops, Seminars, Study Abroad Transferable Credits Accelerated Sessions Start Dates: May through July Register by fax, phone, mail or 
.
in person Call 1.800.283.3853 for our 
complete Summer 2001  
Information/Application Package  (1)  
~~  

PITTSBURGH, PA 15282 
www.duq.edu e-mail: summer@duq.edu 

apparently written by authors under as.sumed names such as radio person­ality Howard Stern, feminist Gloria Steinem and Playboy magazine publisher Hugh Hefner. 
"_By addressing single-sex 
dorms, pari­etals, the imbalanced faculty ratio and Notre Dame's male-domi­n a t e d atmosphere, the DCBFA project might shed some light on to pies which shape the sad state of gen­
der relations at Notre Dame," one author writes in the flyer. 
A DCBFA exhibit opens in the Snite Museum April 8 and will be on display through May 20. 
Clark said he will speak about the project at a confer­ence on peace and social issues before the exhibit opens. 
Following the banners that will run on campus buildings this week, another set of banners will be hung from March 28 to April 8. 
Please Recycle The ObseJ!4VeJ!4. 
a

a 
page 4 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 21, 200 I 
Fugitive man-hunt shuts down mall 
. Police forced to shut down down Mall of America 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn. 
Police closed the biggest shopping mall in the country for eight hours Tuesday to search hall­ways, bath­rooms and broom closets 
"'He's shown himself to be a 
for a man s w e a t 
wanted in an astute escapee.,, shirt and three states. C a p Anthony believed to
Ron Whitehead
Zappa, 29, be Zappa's
Deputy Police Chief
apparently on a cart 
mall parking area. 
More than 100 officers and a police dog conducted a search of the mall. which covers 4.2 million square feet and gets 100,000 daily visi­tors on average. 
Nearly 1,000 people were evacuated, including store employees, people who walk around the mall for exercise, and students who attend two schools at the shopping cen­ter. 
In the 
afternoon, 
police 
found 
escaped on a motorized c a r t , Bloomington Police Chief Roger Willow said. Zappa is wanted on burglary, auto theft and weapons possession charges in Wisconsin, Iowa and Minnesota. 
"We don't know where he might be," Willow said. 
Police converged on the Mall of America in suburban Minneapolis Tuesday morn­ing after a motorist spotted someone who looked like Zappa driving a car. 
During a police chase. the car, registered to one of Zappa's relatives, went over a 4-foot embankment at a hotel. It was later found in a 
left at a 
stopping 
point for taxicabs, shuttles and buses. Surveillance video recorded someone who looked like Zappa near the area. 
The hunt was called off just before 5 p.m.. and the mall was reopened about an hour later. 
"I am convinced people can safely return," Willow said. "We have no reason to believe he's in the building." 
Zappa has also eluded cap­ture in a March 14 shootout and 12-hour manhunt. 
"He's shown himself to be an astute escapee," Bloomington Deputy Police Chief Ron Whitehead said. 


More people claim Indian heritage 
. Casino wealth spurs increase in population 
Associated Press 
NORWICH, Conn. 

As two American Indian­run casinos were built in eastern Connecticut during the past decade, the number of state residents claiming Indian ancestry increased 50 percent. 
There may be several rea­sons for the jump in the latest census figures, but tribal leaders say the lure of casino riches is a major factor. 
"Money is the greatest attraction in the world," said Ralph Sturges, longtime chief of the casino-owning Mohegan tribe. "I think that's one of the reasons. I really do. Because Indians are mak­ing money, now it's a privi­lege to become one." 
Under federal law. the nation's tribes make their own rules about who they consider a member. Some require a certain blood quan­tum, or proportion of Indian lineage, while others ­including Connecticut's tribes -use old census reports and other historical documents. 
The Mohegan Sun opened in 1996, four years after the Mashan tucket Pequ ots opened Foxwoods Resort Casino, one of the most prof­itable in the world. Last July, both casinos reported their best months ever for slot machine revenue: Foxwoods 
OLY 



Information Meeting 
Wednesda1, March 21st
-h 7prn-8pm. -h 
Center for Social Concerns 
Do you want to volunteer after graduation? Come lea,.;n more about post-grad service and Ho,,~y Cross Associates. 
We will also be having our 'Placement Opportunities' meeting next week, on Tuesday, March 27th. This will focus on the different 

2000-2001 Holy Cross Associates from Notre Dame placements within HCA. 
Applications are now being accepted, with placement priority given to those received by April 1st. (Applications available on-line.) 
Associates are eligible for AmeriCorps Education Awards and Loan Deferments. The Education Award is $4,725 towards loans and/or future education. 
erving in Arizona, California, Colorado, Massachusetts, Oregon, and Pennsylvania 
htt 
://www.nd.edu/,...,hcassoc/ 
"Because Indians are making money, now it's a privilege to become one.,, 
Ralph Sturges chief of Mohegan tribe 
with $72.2 million, the Mohegan Sun with $52.2 mil­lion. 
The Mashantuckets list some 650 members and the Mohegans about 1,600. Neither tribe will discuss how casino profits are distributed to members -but they are distributed. 
The Indian population also has increased in Connecticut as members of other tribes around the country arrive to find work. The casino-owning tribes give preferential hiring treatment to fellow Indians. 
Even Indians who aren't members of the two tribes agree that some people are just out to strike it rich by claiming membership. But. they said, today's diversity­celebrating culture has encouraged people to be counted as Indians. 
"There a heightened aware­ness about Native American ancestry here in Connecticut, and a great deal of people do research to find out who their ancestors are and where they co me from." said Chief Standing Bear, who leads a faction that is not recognized as Mohegan by the federally recognized tribe -which runs the casino. 
More than a dozen Indian 
oss 
groups in Connecticut are seeking federal recognition, which would allow them to open casinos. 

John Poupart. president of the American Indian Policy Center in St. Paul, Minn., said it is more in vogue to be Indian now than when he was a child decades ago. 
He also noted that no one checks the validity of census claims. 
"Anyone can be what they want to be as far as the cen­sus is concerned," said Poupart, a Chippewa. 

More than 9,600 Connecticut residents identi­fied themselves as solely of Indian ancestry last year ­up from 6,700 in the 1990 census, when people could only choose one race. 
More than 14,000 others claimed to be of mixed Indian blood in last year's census. 

The National Tribal Development Association, which helps tribes develop businesses. gets calls all the time from people seeking information about tribal membership, said Daryl Wright, chief of staff for the group. 
"Personally, I don't find fault with tribal people, who have been lost and disenfran­chised by the American gov­ernment, who are trying to find a way to reclaim their status." Wright said. 

"What makes an Indian is not the degree of Indian blood, but what's in your heart. and are you following ways that have been handed down generation to genera­tion -the culture and way of life," he said. 



ATION 
Wednesday, March 21, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Vatican denies claims' of abuse: 
The Vatican on Tuesday denied a report in the National Catholic Reporter saying sexual abuse of nuns by priests -especially in AIDS-ravaged Africa -is a serious problem. The magazine article is based on five reports compiled by senior members of women's religious orders and a priest and dating to 1994. Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls acknowl­edged there were isolated cases of priests sexu­ally abusing nuns. but said the problem is "restricted·to a limited geographic area." 
Explosion sinks oil rig in Atlantic: 
After an explosion last week, one of the world's biggest oil rigs sank in the South Atlantic on Tuesday, and the state oil company Petrobras warned that more than 300,000 gallons of diesel fuel on board was likely to spill. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Fire burns chicken plant down: 
Fire broke out at a poultry processing plant in a small Mississippi town Tuesday. forcing the evacuation of much of the town of about 5,000. Three people were reported injured. Firefighters contained the blaze at the Choctaw Maid Farm plant by mid-afternoon, although some areas containing chlorine gas and ammonia -remained out of reach, police investigator Tray Rogers said. 
Internet filter meets opposition: 
Civil liberties groups and the American Library Association filed suit Tuesday to block a federal law that would require schools and libraries to install Internet filters on comput­ers to keep youngsters from seeing smut. The groups said the Children's Internet Protection Act would censor constitutionally protected information -a cyberspace equivalent to tearing pages out of encyclopedias or remov­ing books from shelves. 
Government releases Reagan tapes: 
On the day President Reagan was shot 20 years ago, his top advisers shut themselves away in the White House Situation Room and nervously debated who was in command, all the while keeping a wary eye on Soviet mili­tary posture, according to newly revealed tape recordings. The tapes show that then­Secretary of State Alexander Haig's famous remark to reporters that he was in charge was preceded by similar comments in the Situation Room. After being told that Reagan was on the operating table, Haig said, ..So the ... the helm is right here. And that means right in this chair for now. constitutionally. until the vice president gets here," according to the transcript. 
Market Watch 3/20 
Dow 9,720.82 -238.29 Jones 


S&P 500: 1,142.62 -28.19 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -8.42 -1.75 19.06 NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ) -6.73 -2.91 40.35 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -6.85 -1.06 14.38 INTEL CORP (INTC) -9.03 -2.44 24.62 SUN MiCROSYSTEM (SUNW)-8.83 -1.68 17.38 
MEXICO 

Zapatista rebels return to jungle 
Associated Press 

MEXICO CITY 
Expressing "absolute 
will to achieve peace, .. 
President Vicente 'Fox on 
Tuesday made a dramatic 
appeal for a meeting with 
Zapatista rebel leaders 
who say they plan to leave 
Mexico City and head back 
to the jungle on Friday. 
Fox announced he 
would meet more of the 
rebels' conditions for 
talks, transforming three 
military bases into com­
munity centers and free­
ing more Zapatista prison­
ers. 

"Where there were weapons, there will be hearts and wills to pro­mote the dignity of our indigenous brothers and sisters," Fox said in a brief speech at the presidential residence of Los Pinos. 
He said he was sending a letter inviting rebel leader Subcomandante Marcos to meet with him "before his return to Chia pas ... 
That would appear to pose a scheduling conflict between Fox's plan to visit California from Wednesday to Friday morning and the Zapatistas' plans to leave Mexico City on Friday. 
"I propose that we have a dialogue that would lead to approval {of the Indian rights bill) ... and promote throughout the country an ambitious pro­Fox's latest offer, called man politicians" who were address all lawmakers. gram of human develop­the president's entreaties balking at rebel demands. Fox, who took office on ment for the 10 million to the rebels "just words." Marcos earlier vowed to Dec. 1, welcomed the indigenous brothers and "What he says is pure stay in Mexico City until Zapatista march and sisters," Fox said. lies," Tacho said, speaking Congress approves the endorsed the Indian rights 
Fox also called on beneath a banner in both rights bill that resulted bill, hoping to draw the Congress to find a way to Spanish and English call­from a 1996 agreement Zapatistas away from meet with Zapatista rebels ing for the president to between the government threats of a return to the to discuss the proposed "get the troops and para­and rebels. armed clashes of early law on Indian rights military forces out" of Congressmen from sev­1994. backed by the rebel move­Chiapas. eral leading parties have But the Zapatistas have ment. The 24 masked rebel said the bill needs to be refused to reopen negotia­
In a university appear­leaders made a two-week modified before going to a t10 ns with the Mexican ance immediately after Fox march through much of vote, perhaps by the end of government. They have spoke, Marcos made no the country to rally sup­April. Many also rejected accused Fox of hostility for response. But in a second port for the Indian rights Marcos' demand that the his failure to close the appearance, Zapatista law. But on Monday, masked insurgents be three army bases, despite comandante Tacho, with­Marcos expressed frustra­allowed to use the con­his closure of four others out referring specifically to tion at dealings with "cave-gressional podium to earlier. 

Busboy steals identities from rich 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

A restaurant busboy is accused of using the Internet and Forbes' list of the richest people in America in a scheme to steal millions from such figures as Steven Spielberg, Martha Stewart, Oprah Winfrey and Ted Turner. 
Police are calling it one of the most ambitious identify-theft schemes they have seen. They are still trying to trace the complex electronic trail to determine exactly how much was stolen, but fear it could be well into the millions. 
"He's the best I ever faced," Detective Michael Fabozzi of the NYPD's Computer Investigation and Technology Unit told the New York Post, which first reported the story. 
Police arrested Abraham Abdallah, a 32-year-old high school dropout, last month at the wheel of his car. 
Court papers say he had a dog­eared copy of last fall's Forbes "400 Richest" article, with notations of Social Security numbers, home addresses and birth dates of 200 chief executives, celebrities and tycoons. They say he also had more than 400 stolen credit card numbers -one belonging to a federal prose­cutor. 
Abdallah was charged with crimi­nal impersonation, forgery and fraud. Bail was set at $1 million. 
Investigators say that Abdallah used computers at a library, Web-

enabled cell phones, virtual voicemail and hired couriers for the six-month scam, duping credit reporting compa­nies such as Equifax into providing detailed credit reports on his victims. 
He then allegedly used the data to gain access t'o cred it cards and accounts at brokerage houses such as Goldman Sachs, Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch. 
Prosecutors say his list of targets included Spielberg, Stewart, Winfrey, George Lucas, Ross Perot and Warren Buffett. 
Defense attorney Sam Gregory said Abdallah is innocent. Prosecutors "made an unfair leap from possession of this information to an inference that there was an attempt to take money," Gregory said. 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 20, 2001 
Sub skipper discusses 

Pacemaker relieves heart failure 
regret at hearing 

Associated Press 
. Waddle admits responsibility in submarine collision 
Associated Press 
PEARL HARBOR, Hawaii 
By turns apologetic and defensive. the skipper of a submarine that sank a Japanese trawler was on the stand Tuesday. blaming errors by himself and his crew for the acci­dent as a 
Waddle, rushed himself' and rushed his crew." 
Waddle's sworn testimony was a surprise because his attorney had indicated he would not testify without immunity, which the Navy rejected. 
Waddle said he asked for immunity "in the event the international and political environment dictated that I be sacrificed to an unwarranted court-martial." While criticiz­ing the Navy's decision, he said he decided it was impera­
tiv c he 
speak. 
Navy court of "/ am solely responsible "This court 

would have expected," said Dr. 
and the fam­

William Abraham of the
inquiry into for this truly tragic acci­
ilies need to 

University of Kentucky, who
the collision 
dent. and for the rest of
ended. hear from 

presented the results Tuesday 
"These mis­my life I will live with the me," he said, 

at a meeting in Orlando of the 
American College of
takes were turning to
consequences. ·· 
honest and face some of 

Cardiology. 
the victims' 
Earlier research has suggest­
well-in ten-. 
Cmdr. Scott Waddle relatives. 

ed that this approach, called
tioned," said 

cardiac resynchronization
Cmdr. Scott USS Greeneville skipper The wives of 
Waddle. 
In a closing statement, Waddle's civilian attorney, Charles Gittins, implored the three admirals presiding over the hearing not to recommend a court-martial. 
Gittins blamed the accident on a series of extraordinary circumstances that he said could not be duplicated. 
"Commander Waddle exer­cised his judgment, and he did his level best. He may have fallen short on that day, but it wasn't criminal," Gittins said. 
Under investigation are Waddle; his executive officer, Lt. Cmdr. Gerald Pfeifer; and the officer of the deck, Lt. j.g. Michael Coen. All three could face courts-martial. Before Waddle testified, a Navy lawyer listed the crimes he is suspected of committing: dereliction of duty, improper hazarding of a vessel and neg­ligent homicide. 
The admirals are expected to take three weeks to report on their findings and to rec­ommend whether the officers should be punished. The report goes to Adm. Thomas Fargo, head of the U.S. Pacific Fleet, who has up to 30 days to review it and take final action. 
.. Lt. Cmdr. Brent Filbert, rep­resenting Coen, said the prob­lem of the collision has "a very simple answer. It has a human answer. The com­manding officer, Cmdr. 
ECDC Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center, located at the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, is now accepting 2001 Summer Registration for children ages three through six and 2001-2002 School Year Registration for children ages two through five. Both part time and full time enrollment schedules are available. For more information, please call one of the numbers below. 
Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
Please call ­

631-3344 
or 
~-284-4693 
truly tragic accident, and for the rest of my life I will live with the horrible conse­quences of my decisions and actions that resulted in the loss of the Ehime Maru," he said. 
But he also told the admirals presiding over the court, "I was trying my best to do the job that I was assigned" and appeared to shift some of the blame to his crew for failing to provide sufficient backup. 
The inquiry has focused on whether Waddle rushed preparations for surfacing, and whether he performed an inadequate periscope search before taking the Greeneville up. 

"What impresses me the most is the experiences of individual patients, who have improved to a degree we never would have imagined. " 
Dr. William Abraham University of Kentucky 
lion Americans have heart fail­ure, and 400,000 new cases are diagnosed each year. It causes 39,000 deaths annually and contributes to 225,000 more. 
Pacemakers are widely used to speed up hearts that beat too slowly. But using them to make weak hearts beat more powerfully is a new develop• ment. At least three companies are testing them in the United States. 
In one-quarter to one-half of all heart failure victims, the heart fails to beat in a uniform way. The walls of their left and right ventricles -the main pumping chambers -do not squeeze at precisely the same moment. This sloppy motion robs the heart of its pumping power. 
The new pacemakers deliver an electrical impulse that syn­chronizes the ventricles so their walls pump in unison. 
Abraham and colleagues tested a device called InSync. developed by Medtronic Inc. of Minneapolis, which paid for the study. Doctors implanted the quarter-size devices in 266 patients. However, they left the devices switched off in half of the patients and followed their progress for six months. 
as did 38 percent in the com­
parison group. (At the end of 
the study, doctors turned on 
those patients' pacemakers, 
too.) 

Abraham estimated that 
between 750,000 and 1.25 mil­
lion U.S. heart failure patients 
might be good candidates for 
the devices. He said the 
devices are likely to cost 
$10,000 to $12,000 apiece, 
about the same as a high-end 
standard pacemaker. 

Dr. Barry Massie of the University of California at San Francisco said it is still unclear whether the devices will help those with less severe heart failure or change the long-term course of the disease. 
Nevertheless, he said, "The results are pretty exciting. It can only add to what drugs do. The two together could be remarkable." 
Most of the patients studied were taking diuretics, ACE inhibitors and beta blockers, the standard medicines. Doctors classify heart failure on a scale of 1 to 4. and all of the patients were in the worst two categories. 
After six months on the pace­maker, two-thirds of the patients had improved by at least one category. They also scored substantially higher on a scale that measured quality of life and they were able to walk an average of 128 feet farther in six minutes. 
Another study dealt with a former World War II fighter pilot from the Cincinnati area. His heart was so weak that he had been given six months to live when he received his pace­maker in 1998. Now. at age 82, he can climb stairs, walk sev­eral blocks without getting winded and recently took a trip to New York City to see Broadway shows. 
ORLANDO, Fla. 

A novel kind of pacemaker can substantially boost the pumping power of victims of congestive heart failure, offer­ing an entirely new way of treating perhaps 1 million Americans with bad hearts. 
Doctors tested the device on people with especially severe heart failure, all of whom were already receiving standard heart medicines. Two-thirds improved significantly. 
"The data are clear and impressive, but what impresses me most is the experiences of individual patients, who have improved to a degree we never 
two of those 
killed 
brushed away tears as Waddle spoke. 
Outside the hearing, Ryosuke Terata, whose son was among those killed, said the families welcomed Waddle's testimony as "keep­ing his promise that he made to us when he apologized." 
Waddle's boat, the USS Greeneville, smashed into the Japanese fishing vessel Ehime Maru while demonstrating a rapid-surfacing drill for 16 civilians. Nine people, includ­ing four teen-age boys, were killed. 
Waddle said he was "truly sorry for the loss of life and the incalculable grief." 
"As commanding officer, I am solely responsible for this 

therapy, can energize sluggish hearts, but the new work is the first study to test it in a rigor­ous, scientific way. 
Heart failure is the only form of heart disease that is actually on the increase in the United States. This is because it is largely a disease of the elderly, and many of those who once would have died of heart attacks now survive long enough to have this disorder. 
Heart failure is not, as its name implies, the sudden fail­ure of the heart to stop beat­ing. Instead, it is an inability of the heart to pump powerfully enough to circulate the blood adequately. Symptoms include shortness of breath, fatigue and fluid accumulation. 
Between 2 million and 3 mil­



Wednesday, March 21, 2001 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Senate votes for exceptions to McCain-Feingold 
"/ think it's beginning to chnage
together and in dow into the support of a bill in its character, and with each complex 
that they no change I think you lessen the maneuvering longer can behind the leg­' i
opportunity for us to keep
identify as islation.
Democrats together in support ofa 1 1 i 
McCain­Supporters of 
Feingold," said bill that they can no longer identify the amend­the Democratic as McCain~Feingold.,, ment said they leader, Sen. nevertheless Tom Daschle of feared that
Tom Daschle
South Dakota. additional
Democratic Senator, South Dakota
In the case of that 
. Amendments would exempt opponents of wealthy, self-financed candidates from rules 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Senate voted Tuesday to ease campaign funding restrictions on can­didates battling wealthy, self-financ­ing rivals, overriding objections that the move would run 
afoul of the Constitution and undermine an effort to reduce the role of money in politics. 
Sen. John McCain said limits would be raised for all candi­

dates before debate McCain on campaign finance legislation was through. "The only question is how much," he said. 
Supporters of the amendment relat­ing to millionaires said it was neces­sary to equalize an advantage that flows to any candidate able to use a personal fortune to finance a cam­paign. Four Democrats did so last year -Sens. Jon Corzine of New Jersey, Mark Dayton of Minnesota and Maria Cantwell of Washington, all first-term­ers; and Sen. Herb Kohl, D-Wis., who was re-elected. Kohl and Corzine sup­ported the amendment; Dayton and Cantwell opposed it. 
The vote on the provision was 70-30 and came as lawmakers plowed ahead with a two-week debate that laid bare stark philosophical differences at the core of the issue. 
"Both parties are enslaved to those who give" campaign funds, said Sen. Robert Byrd. a West Virginia Democrat first elected to Congress nearly a half-century ago. "We're beholden to the special interests when we go around the country holding out a tin cup saying, 'Gimme, gimme, gimme."' 

A few hours later, Sen. Robert Bennett, H-Utah, said the bill would infringe on the First Amendment. "It has to do with freedom of speech. It does not have to do with getting 
money out of poli­


tics, because the reality is in the big picture: We never have had money out of politics, ... and we never will," Bennett said. 
The legislation 
Feingold would ban "soft 
money," loosely regulated, unlimited donations that unions, corporations and individuals make to political parties. It also would restrict certain types of political advertising broadcast within 60 days of an election or 30 days of a primary. 
Together, the Republican and Democratic parties collected more than $480 million in soft money in the last two-year election cycle. At the same time, candidates of both parties were unsettled by attack ads financed by outside groups, commercials that escaped disclosure because they did not expressly advocate the election or defeat of an individual politician. 
The millionaires amendment was advanced originally by Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M .. and while McCain and Feingold helped kill an earlier version Monday night, it was refined 
LIFE l~lTHE RE!\LWORLD 

, , ' C:\i • 
: .. ' .:.,i ":,.. 
-~ i-.••i '1,,: ,, •;
6etthe iniide itory on Life, faith, & Relationihipi 
from 



lllld_,,'1_ 
. .....c:: 

ilew Urkiln~ 
with opening concert by DANIEllf ~KORICH &6ARY DAl6lf new orleam style reception to follow 

Bush to repeal new safety law. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush said he will sign on Tuesday a repeal of new workplace safety regula­tions -making the business­backed measure the first sub­stantive policy that he turns into law. 
"There's a change in ergonomics regulations that I believe is positive and I intend to sign today," Bush told an approving assembly of women business leaders in the East Room. 
The measure, which would revoke ergonomics rules issued late in the Clinton administra­tion, whizzed through the Congress earlier this month with help from business inter­ests who criticized the cost and scope of the regulations. 
Bush held the legislation up as a victory for him and the Republican-controlled Congress. Last week, in his first Rose Garden signing cere­mony, Bush put his signature on a bill naming a Boston cour­thouse for retiring Rep. Joe Moakley, D-Mass. 
"The Congress is beginning to get a sense of accomplish­ment. There is a culture of in overnight negotiations to the point that they deemed it acceptable. 
accomplishment  in  
Washington,"  Bush  said  
Tuesday.  

Other supporters of their campaign finance bill expressed unhappiness, though, and members of the Democratic leadership said that if there were many more changes like it, support for the bill itself could start to unravel. 
"I think it's beginning to change in its character, and with each change I think you lessen the opportunity for us to keep Democrats 
candidates run­ning against self-financing rivals, the amendment that passed would increase the size of allowable donations on a sliding scale based on a state's population. The current $1,000 contribution limit could eventually rise to $6,000, and political parties would be allowed to offer greater assistance than is now the case. 
Sen. Mike DeWine, R-Ohio, said the provision was necessary because it would rectify a "a ludicrous situation. Everybody is limited to $1,000 (in donations) except one person, the can­didate. To most people this would seem to be an absurd situation," he said. 

Daschle said the provision is uncon­stitutional because "it treats different candidates in different states differ­ently." 
Beyond that, he said, it "violates the real spirit" of the legislation. 
And Sen. Christopher Dodd, D­Conn.. said it amounted to "incumben­cy protection," since for the most part it would allow incumbents to raise more money to fend off wealthy chal­lengers. 
The debate 
offered a win­
changes 
drew wide­

spread support could eventually cause their coalition to crack. 
And comments by Daschle and Senate Democratic whip Harry Reid of Nevada, who said opponents were playing a "shell game," reinforced nervousness among Republican sup­porters of the soft money ban that Democrats eventually would find a way to ensure its defeat. 
While supporters of the bill labored to hold their coalition together on the floor, McCain met privately during the day with AFL-CIO President John Sweeney. Organized labor has object­ed to the bill's provision that restricts late-campaign advertising. 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, March 21, 2001 

I vot1 V\7ere ;1 Notre 
.I 

Dame professor, what would 

SPONSORED BY YOUR STUDENT UNION, CAVANAUGH AND KEENAN HALLS 

• 

/' 
-
.. 
Wednesday, March 21, 2001 page 9
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Gas prices skyrocket, experts say rise may continue 
Natural Gas Heating Up 
Demand for Gas Keeps Climbing 
Demand is expected to grow to 29 trillion cubic feet a year by 2010 and 31.5 trillion cubic feet by 2015. 
23 trillion cubic feet Demand 22 ­
21 ­

20 ­
19 -
__,,,,,,,,.________,,,,,,,,.,­
18 -------­
17 
'90 '91 '92 '93 '94 '95 '96 '97 '98 '99 '00 
11997 I 1998 
Natural gas prices have soared four to five times what they were a year ago. President Bush's energy plan, expected to be unveiled this month, will encourage expansion of gas production in an attempt to meet the increasing demand that is expected to continue to rise. 

$12  
Price Spikes The price of natural gas saw an increase last March and spiked to almost $11 over Christmas.  10 8  
Shown here are daily prices in dollars per thousand cubic feet  March 19  6 4  
2  

I 1999 I 2000 I 2001 
Paying more for natural gas Who is using natural gas 
Rates vary from state-to-state and are set by public utilities and taxes. Top five producing states are labeled. 
New Mexico Texas Oklahoma ----~ Louisiana 

Average price of natural gas delivered to residential customers, 1999 
$3.68 -. $5.62 -$6,48 -1 $8.46 -1 
5.61 6.47 8.45 18.86 
Dollars per thousand cubic feet 

Sixty-two million commercial, industrial and residential customers use natural gas, accounting for nearly 24 percent of all energy used in the United States. 
U.S. energy consumption Other0.1% -----­
Hydroelectric 3.6% Nuclear 8.3% ----

Coal 23.3% ---­

Consumption by sector, 1999 
Other 9%--------, 
Commercial 14% -­Electrical 
utilities 15% Residential 
I 

SOURCES: Natural Gas Supply Association; American Gas Association; Energy Information Administration (EIA) Natural Gas Annuals AF 

March 30th 7:30pm Stepan Center 

Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
For a decade natural gas has 
been the fuel to love. It's clean, 
plentiful and found close to 
home. Most important, it was 
cheap. 
No longer. 

As natural gas prices have 
soared to as much as five times 
what they were 18 months ago, 
consumers -from the elderly 
trying to heat their homes to 
executives who are shutting 
down chemical plants because 
of high gas prices -are won­
dering what happened: 

. 
Are producers profiteering? Maybe. At the very least, they're raking in billions of dollars. 

. 
Will the high costs, which have eased in recent weeks, rebound this summer and into next fall? Supplies remain tight. If the summer is a hot one, prices could again soar. 


. Can future production meet 
growing demand? Most experts say there's plenty of gas; devel­oping it will depend on price and building new pipelines. 
. Should the government 
reimpose price controls? A few 
advocates say yes; the Bush 
administration and most econo­
mists, no. 

Government regulations pro­
duced "a couple of real disas­
ters" -gas shortages in the 
1970s and a gas "bubble" of too 
much supply in the early '80s. 
says Paul MacAvoy, a Yale 
economist who has followed the 
industry for 30 years. Despite 
greater risks of occasional price 
spikes, MacAvoy argues. a free 
market provides lower prices 
and adequate supplies in the 
long run. 

President Bush's energy plan, expected to be unveiled next month, will stress expanding· natural gas production and building new pipelines, but experts agree it will be years before those efforts significantly influence the gas market. Meanwhile demand for the fuel will continue to rise, especially for generating electricity. 
It may be some time, perhaps never, before prices again will be as low as they were over a 15-year period covering the late 1980s and all of the 1990s. energy economists say. 
During that stretch the whole­sale price of gas hovered around $2 per 1,000 cubic feet. After accounting for inflation, natural gas prices actually declined by almost a third between 1985 and 1999, according to the American Gas Association. 
Then in the first six months of last year, the price doubled, then doubled again. By Christmas and into the new year it had spiked to nearly $11 for the same 1,000 cubic feet. It's been even higher in power­starved California, ·prompting charges of price manipulation by suppliers and pipeline opera­tors. 
As the surge in gas prices drove up home heating bills by 50 percent or more in many areas, businesses and industrial plants saw energy cost5 cut into profits. Some chemical plants using natural gas as a feedstock have seen foreign competitors grab business because of the high U.S. energy costs. 
Redland Brick Inc. of 
Williamsport, Md., has seen the 
cost of firing up its kilns at four 
plants soar. An expected energy 
bill of $4 million is twice what it 
was in 1999, says James Vinke, 
the company's president. 
In recent weeks, wholesale 
gas prices have begun to fall 
back to about half what they 
were in December and early 
January, but at $5 per 1,000 
cubic feet, they remain more 
than double what they were in 
the winter of 1999. 
"The length of time that gas 
prices have remained so high is 
unprecedented," the govern­
ment's Energy Information 
Administration said in its latest 
energy forecast: It predicted 
prices will not ease much this 
year or next. 
Energy experts say prices 
could just as easily spike again 
if supplies lag and demand 
jumps over a hot summer or 
unusually cold weather next 
winter. Stocks in storage are 
unusually low for the end of 
winter, raising some concerns if 
demand this summer is strong. 
"It is becoming clear with 
each passing month that we 
grossly underestimated the 
demand pressure facing natural 
gas," says Matthew Simmons, a 
Houston-based investment 
banker and energy analyst who 
frequently has warned of an 
impending natural gas crisis. 
Simmons helped craft a National Petroleum Council report at the end of 1999. It predicted that over the next 15 years natural gas demand will increase by 40 percent to 31.5 trillion cubic feet annually. With power plant construction at a fast pace, that demand now could come in five or six years. says Simmons. 
While the council, an advisory 
panel to the government, said 
enough gas exists to meet the 
demand, it warned that produc• 
tion will have to increase dra­
matically, including in some 
areas that long have been off 
limits or restricted for environ­
mental reasons. 
Ironically, the report assumed that even with higher demand, prices would stay under $3 per 1,000 cubic feet, saying that was enough of an incentive to spur development. 
Of all fossil fuels, natural gas is a natural. 
It is by far the cleanest. Compared to coal and oil, nat­ural gas emits far less smog­causing and toxic air pollution or heat-trapping greenhouse gases when burned. Environmentalists embrace it as the transition from fossil fuels to solar technology or hydrogen fuel cells that are still decades away from wide use. 
Natural gas also is plentiful. An estimated 2,449 trillion cubic feet of reserves in the United States and Canada is enough to meet today's demand for 100 years. And there is no worry about cutoffs from unfriendly nations halfway across the globe. 
Nevertheless, the price explo­sion of the last year has prompted more than a few energy experts to wonder, only half jokingly, whether the OPEC oil cartel had captured the nat­ural gas market. 
-




O
THE 

page 10 BSERVER Wednesday, March 21, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nocre Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall, Nom Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR Kerry Smith 
NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Pat McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amscadter ScENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pavel Blagnov WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX.........................................•· ..................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ......................................631-5313 NEWS......... ,...... ,.........................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VJE\VPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO ............. , .......................................... 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from che Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudent reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
scaff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
nor governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on contenc. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of · the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions chrough letters is encouraged. 
Leccers co the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Obseroer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 


Dorm life does offer benefits 
I am trapped but my prison is self­imposed. 
Come next year I will be staring out into the world through the bars of my golden cell and I'm ready for it. 
While most of my friends will move to Eric Long the exotic locales sprinkled around South Bend/ 
Fitter,
Mishawhatever by the 

Happier ... 
off-campus housing fairy, all grown up and ready to take on the world, I'll see things from my single in 
Zahm Hall. 

And I say that's fine -fine indeed. 
I have studied both sides of the issue and I have determined that the only rational choice one can make is to remain on campus. l hope I can convince you of this in about 800 words. And maybe along the way we can share a smile or two. 
Okay, first of all, isn't it kind of a hassle to park your car around here? I mean. I've gotten three tickets in the past month (somebody has to pay the salary of the ND security guards ... I mean police). Then every time I try to get on campus, I hear the tired old refrain: "Let me check your trunk, let me look under floor mats, let me perform a body cavity search." 
What the hell am I going to do to the precious campus? I'm obviously a stu­dent, I'm not scary looking-OK. I take that one back. Seriously though, just because I look like that Bin Laden dude doesn't mean I'll blow up the Dome. But this is a tangent. 
A longer distance to the classroom means it will take longer to get to class. Imagine you wake up late. Now instead of putting shoes on for a nice stroll across the quad, God's good air and what not, you have to get in your car, roll down the window before you light a cigarette, find a good radio station, obey traffic signals, park -or deal with one of the guard booth people and then maybe you have to put more gas in your car so you can do it all again tomorrow. 
Oh, you say this one's easy to solve: stop going to class. \Nell that's a great attitude -pretty soon you'll be home with Mom and Dad. How's that for free­dom? Why not drop out of school, move to Montana and live with some of your stoner friends -it's cheaper than going here. 
No, you want the education; you crave it with every fiber of your being. Eventually you want to move out of the house, don't you? Stay on campus and graduate! 
Another reason why no one should move off campus is because of food. Granted the dining halls aren't grade A cuisine but they do the job and they do the dishes and the cooking and the clean­ing. 
I know. some of you like to cook ­we'll see how you like it when you have to do it at least once a day and the damn roommates won't do any dishes and something smells in here. No, give me my nature burger or flank steak. 
Grocery shopping can be fun but not when you have to spend your money wisely. I would like to leave that to the 

Follow-up Information 
The Delgadillo family requested the following information be run with their letter yesterday. Due to an oversight the Viewpoint section failed to include it. Please consider sup­port for this cause. 
University and my.parents for as long as possible. All I want to buy is Dinty Moore Beef Stew, Funyons and soda. and the occasional avocado. I don't want to buy milk, eggs, bread and other less glam­orous stuff. 
And what are these off campus meal plans? Flex Eight-and-a-half? Leonard Part VI? Okay, the last one is a Cosby movie (it ain't "Ghost Dad," let me tell you) and not an actual meal plan, but it might as well be. 
No, I don't think living on campus is great. While I am here, I have to obey all of the state's laws and then some: no girls after two, no kegs, no candles. no throwing food in the dining hall. 
But I guess it's all worth it. This place rocks sometimes. For instance, when I get to go back to the dorm. or once a semester when the dining hall has chick­en tenders, or when they turn Stonehenge on for the first time. or when I'm only staying on because I wanted to be an R.A. 
No, it's because I'm too apathetic to move off. Yes, that's it. I'll be cool pre­cisely because it's uncool to do what I'm doing. Yes, it'll be great. 
No. I've tried to pull that nerd chic thing off my entire life, and it hasn't worked so far. 
l guess there are still places open in Turtle Creek. 
Eric Long's column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Donations can be sent to the newly established Cox Kids Foundation/Scott Delgadillo Fund to support research and treatment of blood related diseases such as leukemia: 
The Cox Kid Foundation/ Scott Delgadillo Fund At the San Diego Foundation 1420 Kettner Blvd, Suite 500 San Diego, CA 92101 
DILBERT 

C,E.E.P 
B()OP 
BE.EP 
E 
0 
'-! 0
.. 
@
., 
E 
.. II 
'ti 
= 
0 
.,CJ 
E 
0 
(J 
t: 
QI.0 
"O 
~ 
3: 
IF YOU'D LIKE TO TAKE ME TO PARIS, PRESS ONE. IF YOU ARE INVITING ME TO A LOUSY MOVIE, 
PRESS 
TWO. 
/ 
SCOTT ADAMS 
u 
.!: 
.;" 

:,,.
.,, C 
THIS. 
!! 
;! 
..
" 
... 
.,, 

~ 
C 
::, 
;; 
0
.. 
" 
I) 
0 
f1 
ri"" 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"No athlete is crowned but in the sweat ofhis brow . ., 
Saint Jerome 


O
THE Wednesday, March 21, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
GUEST COLUMN LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Bilingual U.S.A. 
The idea that this country was founded by white peo­ple, for white people is a statement most people would consider to be backwards and repulsive. It implies this nation is designed for the advancement of whites over people of other races. This is a statement that, if said by a politician. would probably signal 
Chris
the end of his or her career. 
But letme ask you this. How much Edwards different is the above statement from this one: This country was founded by Indiana English speakers. for English speak­Daily ers? 
Student 
This is a statement many people support, although it is the same fun­damental argument that all people are expected to con­form to the predominant power. Historically, it's a good idea to speak the language of the person with a gun to your head. But we have evolved and no longer think like cavemen. No, we think like businessmen, which means that how you present something is more important than what you present. 
What's the difference between a redneck in a sheet 
with a burning cross and a redneck in a suit with a law 
degree? 
The school system in areas with high populations of Mexican immigrants should have classes taught in Spanish, and I think all U.S. children should be taught the Spanish language along with the rest of the curricu­lum. Maybe I'm a hypocrite in saying this. After all, my proficiency in Spanish is limited to the phrase ''I'd like a chicken burrito, please, amigo." There are only two Spanish words there, but I count three if I use an accent. 
But I'm willing to learn and try to change. After all. this isn't my country. 
If that sounds strange, then you don't understand what the United States is. The United States is the great­est nation that ever existed. We are the most charitable, the most forgiving (who else has won wars and instead of taking over countries actually gave them money to rebuild themselves?); we are the only nation to ever give people freedoms because it was right. The United States is much more than a land set between two oceans. It is an ideal. 
Americans don't believe in having privileges that are intrinsic from the luck of birth. We change. Why should the location of one's birth take away his or her right to exist? Why should Mexican children be put to an imme­diate disadvantage just because they were brought up to speak Spanish? Is it just because it's different, or is it just too much of a hassle to change? 
Let me tell you something: The Civil War was a hassle. Desegregating schools was a hassle. Marching for women's suffrage was a hassle. Training teachers in the Spanish language and adding Spanish to a few of the road signs isn't that big of a problem. 
It's not my country because it isn't anybody's country. Our very Constitution speaks not of American rights, but of human rights. An American is not one who lives in the United States, but is anyone who believes in the intrinsic rights of human beings to have freedom. 
Opponents of bilingualism ask, ..Where do we stop? \Vhen will it all end?" They cry, "Will we have to repre­sent all the languages now to accommodate every single immigrant?" 
To these very heartfelt and intelligent questions, I reply "No, you morons." I think it's obvious when we have enough people in this country speaking a certain language that it benefits us all to learn and implement that language into our society. But I don't expect to see Finnish road signs any time soon. 
Until we realize that American rights are in fact, human rights, and not just reserved for those born on red, white and blue soil, we can't advance as a society. It is our duty to try and change with the times. 
Spanish-speaking people are just as deserving of the self-evident truths that we hold for U.S. citizens as any­one. The right to freedoms is universal. We should be able to grant for other people the very rights that we demand for ourselves. Anything less is a return to times when the color of your skin or the "highness" of your birth regulated your place in society. We will change, and we will benefit from it. 
And that's as American as baseball, mom, apple pie and a chicken burrito. Right, amigo? 
This article first appeared in the March 20, 2001 issue ofIndiana University's daily paper, the Indiana Daily Student, and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Boxing Club responds 
After publication of yesterday's letter to the editor saw as well. that examined tournament officiating, Derrick Bravo With respect to the offer of having professional and I sat down to discuss how contests are evaluated judges evaluate the fights, a member of the boxing and have decided to try and explain the officiating team presented this option to one of the coaches. system. However, the coach dismissed this offer, electing to 
A good cornerman will advise his fighter not to keep the judges who have been with the program for leave a contest to the cards and judges. When a fight a long period of time, some of whom are even alum­goes to the cards there is bound to be a close deci­ni. It is believed that they have done a good job in sion and judges are fallible. Take for example a play past tournaments -including this year's contests ­at the plate in baseball. While one fan will be pleased and will continue to do so in the future. with the outcome, others will be disappointed. Some With respect to the issue of the cause versus the of the crowd at the Bengals was displeased with glory of participating in the Bengal Bouts an honest some decisions while others rejoiced. Close calls and Bouter will tell you it is about both. Anyone who has fan reactions are an important part of sport. had their hand raised at the end of the fight will not 
Every measure is taken to ensure that close calls deny it is a great feeling and a reward for weeks of go the right way with the resources the Boxing Club training and sacrifice. But anyone who has lost a has. The role of student judges was criticized in the fight will tell you it is more important to feel the letter. It was suggested that they could not be objec­pride of being a part of a greater cause. tive. However. one judge explained that every effort Finally. a good team will always find ways to is made for student judges to remove themselves strengthen their program and resolve conflict inter­from fights where friends are participating. That nally. I commend Derrick for meeting with me to might explain why some judges were seen support­resolve this issue. We feel that it illustrates that the ing a particular fighter -they were not judging that best way to resolve cotiflicts within a team or organi­bout. zation is through internal communication, openness 
Additionally. judges from the Notre Dame commu­and understanding rather than a public back and nity that have been a part of the sport of boxing and forth in the media. ­the Bengals for years make their judgment on the other two cards evaluated by the referee before Brian Hobbins making a decision. So in the case mentioned of a senior, co-president Notre Dame boxing questionable unanimous decision, the opinion of the off-campus non-student judges supported what the student judge March 20, 200 I 
Adapting Christ image normal 
I am writing to ask readers to cast their minds back to the dim dark days before the break and reconsid­er both Colleen McCarthy's sensible, funny and restrained March 7 col­umn on Rudy Giuliani's attack on the painting called "Yo Mama's Last Supper" by Renee Cox and the responses to it. 
Let me begin by saying that I don't want to argue for the intrinsic artistic or theological merit of the painting. In the admittedly poor and off-center photograph I saw, it looked slick enough to qualify on either count (unlike Chris Ofili's equally maligned African Madonna). 
But I do want to take issue with the objections to Ms. McCarthy's claim to be able to image Christ as female. The idea that images of Christ, whether for art, veneration or spirituality should be determined by what can be known of the histor­ical Jesus is both historically impos­sible and theologically problematic. 
Particularly confusing was Riley's complaint that McCarthy's imaging of Christ as woman would be the same as his imaging Christ as "a shillelagh swinging son of the old sod who wouldn't hesitate to admin­ister a love tap to the empty head of a fool." 
I got a little worried here. Does this mean that Jesus never would strike anyone? How then does one understand the whips Jesus used to drive money-changers from the temple? Does it mean that Jesus shouldn't be represented as a white, blue-eyed westerner? Good idea, but look around you. Most repre­sentations of Jesus make him look like a cavalier in a nightie. 
Imagining Jesus as a laboring Jewish male of the first century would mean picturing him as dark­haired, dark-eyed and dark­skinned, approximately five feet, two inches to five feet, four inches with shortish arms and legs and a broad torso and shoulders, wearing a short tunic (think a knee-length belted tee-shirt), a bad but short haircut and five o'clock shadow (assume cheap shaving tools). miss­ing an odd tooth, aged anywhere from 28 (Luke 3:23} to 46 (John 2:20-21, 8:57) and looking every minute of it. 
I don't object to constructing this image. I do it all the time myself, what with teaching New Testament and all. But it is as much an act of imagination as the wonderful Bible scenes of the brilliant Japanese painter Hisao Watanabe and the many varieties of Mestizo, aborigi­nal, African and Asian Christs and Madonnas. 
These cross-cultural and trans­historical translations of the image of Christ are widely recognized not only as artistic achievements but also as necessary to theology and faith. 
Such representations declare that the salvation proclaimed in Christ is neither limited nor distant but can inform and be informed by the human reality of those who seek it. 
Why is the translation into fem ale terms so much more controversial? Both gender and racial categories are social assignments that orga­nize and give social significance to (and sometimes even create) physi­cal characteristics that are by no means as clearly defined, obvious or fixed as is generally assumed. 
The ancient definitions do indeed insist that i11 Christ the divine Word and Wisdom are joined to a whole human person, mind. soul and body (not to a body alone, incidentally). 
But making the masculinity of Jesus so constitutive of the humani­ty of Christ as to exclude the possi­bility of imaging Christ as a woman risks violating the ancient principle ofsalvation that says that whatever of humanity cannot be said to be taken up into Christ is not 
redeemed. 
Ms. McCarthy is by no means out­side the tradition in representing Christ or the deity in female terms. She can draw upon the ancient the­ological traditions that treat divine Wisdom as a hypostasis or personi­fication of the deity, that understand Jesus as the incarnation of Wisdom or that characterize the Holy Spirit as female. Medieval traditions rep­resented by Anselm and Julian of Norwich represented Christ as mother. More recent theology and art have attempted to draw from or move beyond these traditions. 
Too often these attempts have indeed evoked responses that uncover the deep vein of misogyny in western Christianity. For instance, Altmuth Lutkenaus­Lackey's sculpture "Crucified Woman" drew hostility from many people 0argely men) who were unable to see any message except sexual invitation in a naked female body. This sculpture is now installed in the garden of Emmanuel College in Toronto as a memorial to the 14 women engineering students who were assassinated by an enraged male student in Quebec in 1989. 
Am I arguing that Rudy Giuliani is misogynist? And maybe racist as well? Well, maybe. But don't forget the man is a publicity hound. It all takes me back to the days of John O'Connor's tenure in the archdio­cese when he competed daily with Mayor Koch for coverage on the front page of the New York Times. 
Borrowing the role of defensor fidei from Henry VIII is not surpris­ing in one who believes himself to have inherited the mantle of both Hizzoner and Hizeminenz. 
Mary Rose D'Angelo 
associate professor, department of theology March 20, 200 I 

I N 
E T 
page 12 Wednesday, March 21, 2001 
Calculators and drug selling lessons 
God bless Texas Instruments, the creator of the great­est of all academic aids, the TI-82. 
Honestly, where would we be without our Tl-82s and 85s, with their big screens and graphs and other do­hickeys? Think about it -our calculators had profound effects on our academic careers. They taught us m·ore than any teacher or stupid book could ever Jeff Baltruzak teach us. 
Who would have survived math class in high school without playing such electrifying calculator games Short Circuits as Snake, Tetris and Drug War. ("Yes, I would like to buy a bigger trenchcoat to hold more drugs!") 
A lot of people say teenagers and college students do drugs because of some social-cultural connection between drug use and acceptance by one's peers, but I think its because we played Drug War and dealt cocaine and ludes until we got millions of dollars. Who didn't want to deal drugs after playing Drug War? 
The kids at my middle school had a Drug War contest, and the winner had something like 10 million dollars. Lesson learned by 13-year-old kids: The drug trade is very lucrative. It was like a role model like Michael Jordan doing a "Just say YES to drugs!" commercial. 
The best part about the calculator games was that you actually looked like you were doing classwork. "I swear I'm doing the assignment, not learning the drug trade with a calculator game." 
And who ever could remember all those darn physics equations during senior year? I sure as hell couldn't. So I popped those formulas into my calculator in cleverly disguised programs called "Chap 1 Notes" and went to town. Some people had whole chapter summaries in their calculators -it was insane. 
I remember when I got my first TI-82 in eighth grade. 
Mrs. Schenk, who liked to shower the first row of desks 
with spit, said that we all should get one, and we all did. 
I opened the package, and then Mrs. Schenk spit on my 
new calculator. I wiped it off really fast and stroked the 
calculator like it was my first born son. 
Every time somebody dropped a TI-82 on the ground 
during class, some smartass, usually myself, would say 
"that sounded expensive!" 
And occasionally calculators would get stolen, and it 
would be a big scandal. This fat weasel kid that looked 
like Newman from "Seinfeld" in my high school stole 
about 20 calculators, and then he tried to sell them to 
the same people he stole them from, and he got expelled 
-calculators were sacred. 
We worshipped the calculator. It was never wrong. We 
said, "why learn how to do this problem? We'll always 
have our TI-82s." And the teachers never had a good 
answer for that, because they knew they couldn't com­
pete with the Tl-82. 
We got lazy. We put really easy problems like "40 x 3" 
into the calculator just to make ourselves feel better, 
like we couldn't ever go wrong without it. It was like a 
second brain. 
Now we're in college and we don't really use our TI­
82s anymore. We have learned that professors test us on 
what we actually know, not just what we could put into 
our little wonderful electronic friends. 
The calculator used to be a way of life, but now it's 
just a nice thing to have around for solving finance prob­
lems and doing addition. It's a shame, but all things 
must come to an end someday, and eventually, we all 
will actually have to learn something, instead of relying 
on the TI-82. 
So, for memories sake, I say everyone should give their 
TI-whatever a hug today. and remember all the jams it 
got you out of, how it was there when you stressed out at 
the SATs, and how you know eot to overpay for heroin 
because of Drug War. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Homework got you stu11 
From dictionaries and encyclopedias to literatLJ 


By lAURA KELLY 
Associate Scene Editor 
The Internet is a beautiful thing. Not only has it provided a generation of procrastinating college stu­dents with e-mail, Instant Messenger and MP3s, but students rarely have to exert more energy than mov­ing a mouse to do research or find the answer to any question. · 
Our parents sang the virtues of a good dictionary and thesaurus, our older brothers and sisters revealed the secret of "Cliffs Notes." But today it may actually be possible to graduate from Notre Dame without opening up a reference book or setting foot in the library. Why bother walking across campus when everything you need can be found online? 
1 

The only catch (despite what your professors might tell you} is that you simply need to know where to look. For the wealth of information that the Internet provides, there is an equal amount of useless junk or pure trash to be found on many dot-corns. 
Thus the smart student -or the student who knows how to get by on the least amount of work ­has to know where to go to find answers to life's big questions. Questions like. why bother reading Hamlet when someone else can write me a synopsis? Or, how can I pass out of my Spanish requirement with­out ever actually learning to write in the language? 
Of course, the dedicated intellectuals at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's would never be the type to slack off in their studies. But occasionally, drastic times call for drastic measures. And it's always bet­ter to know where to look for help. Among the many Web sites that claim to have the answers to all your class-related questions, a few stand out in terms of quality. ease of use and completeness. 
SparkNotes.com 
For students desperately seeking easy answers to the most pressing academic problems, SparkNotes.com is the best-known and most com­plete Web site. With an easy-to-navigate format, SparkNotes operates much like Yahoo! and other search engines. 
Categories range from physics and philosophy to biology and literature. Or if you 're not even sure which subject your question falls under, you can use the generic search option to find what 
you're looking for. 
Founded in 1999 by young Harvard graduates Maxwell Krohn and Sam Yagan. SparkNotes.com is best known for its study guides on great works of litera­ture. These SparkNotes are much like their older siblings, the similarly named "Cliffs Notes:" for 
more  than  200  
books,  a  study  
guide  provides  

information on the work's historical context, a descrip­tion of each char­acter. chapter summaries and a section of study questions. 
Lest you confuse them with "Cliffs Notes," however, SparkNotes boasts that their study guides are written not by ancient professors or aca­demics, but by Harvard stu­
dent and graduates who all 
"lr..l.._O~l}. or Boomie study and reading
specialize in the subjects they 
\.J\fW"' their random thoughts. even the 
cover. 
most dedicated slacked will return
Regardless of whether this is sup­
posed to make you identify with the hip, young SparkNotes or make you envious of the Harvard grads who have the cushy job of dumbing down Shakespeare for the rest of America, SparkNotes prides itself on the completeness and quality of its literature study guides. 
SparkNotes.com provides more than the much­abridged works of Joyce and Milton, however. The 
-site also mar­kets itself to confused chemistry and biology majors, offer­i rig simple explanations of topics like stoichiometry and cell respi­ration. For those baffled by calculus or economics, Spark­Notes.com puts important equations and formulas at your finger­tips. Some of Spark­Notes.com's quirky sec­tions include "Biography," where you can learn the details of JFK's child­hood and Stalin's rise to power. The category on Kaplan test preparation provides infor• mation on every test that could possibly decide your 
<:_,-···­

I/~ 
:a ch:aoce to wtn 
$31,000,000. 
Ilftl:t!r•lJiL•!ilJ 
Oiek hera to get :a· •orll.lin $10,000. 

Developed in 1999 by two Harvard gra 
"Cliffs Notes," but online at the touch o 
future: the LSAT, the MCAT and the GRE. 
For those who need a quicker answer to their aca· demic woes, SparkNotes.com offers a helpful side bar with reference materials, including a dictionary, a thesaurus. a calculator, maps and a period­ic table. Students of foreign languages 
can use the translator to write back and forth between Spanis·h. French. German, Italian, Portuguese and 
English. 

Aside from its acade­mic seriousness, SparkNotes.com has a lighter side as well. Under the ''Relax" category, stressed­out students can enjoy articles 
about famous col­lege dropouts and the origins of the dunce cap. 
Another amus­ing feature is the SparkNotes 
KnowledgeCam. More than a web­cam, this device allows Internet junkies to watch stu­dents studying and hear their thoughts at the same time, accord­~ ing to SparkNotes.com.\0 After about 20 seconds of \b.,.~ watching Ben, Justin, Porter 
to the books out of sheer boredom. 

Overall, Spark.Notes.com is a complete ref­erence Web site for every college student. It provides simple, clear information, and while it may not have all the answers, it sets a solid foundation. 
Dictionary.com 
This Web site is the delight of every arts and letters professor. And it's not so bad for students who don't 
-
I N E T 

Wednesday, March 21, 200 I 
page 13 

Bped? Help is just a mouse click away 
re study guides, academic Web sites offers resources to all college students 
NO 



(Search) 

Message Boards News Archive 
Your PoetrY., lntrjguing Problems ... Culture, Politics, Finance... 
L iteratl!.re. Phiio~.QJ!ny'. Pride 8 Preiu_gg, All Gt1iet on the... 
Astronomy Economies Earth, Sun, Mars, JYP-iter.•. Demand, Elasticity.. Mono~olies... 
Poetry. Mathematics Paradise Lost, Dante's Inferno... 
History Chemistry WN U, \/WV I, Great Dem:ession... Periodic Table, StoichiometrY.•.. 
Biology: Physics Darwin, CeH Membranes... Work and Power, b.i9bt 
Biography Psychology MU<, Lincoln, Gendhi... PsychodY.namic. Behaviorism... 
computer Science Kaetan Test Prep Basics, Quick Sort, Ciasses... SAT, AP, ORE..• 
Shakespeare Health & Nutrition Julius Caesar, Romeo and Juliet... ~y.STDs, Addiction... 
want to shell out $40 for Mr. Webster's book, either. Dictionary.corn's main purpose is obviously clear: at the top of the page you can type in any word and instantly find its meaning, pronunciation and origin. While this is a helpful tool for anyone writing a paper, the Web site offers much more than a simple dictionary search. 
Dictionary.corn is (surprisingly!) linked closely to its counterpart, Thesaurus.com, and users can easily switch back and forth between the two. If you've ever found yourself banging your head on your keyboard trying to come up with just the right word, the thesaurus option is for you. And it prevents any nasty paper cuts that might arise from flipping through an actual book to find syn­onyms and antonyms. 
English majors are not the only ones who will feel at home at Dictionary.corn. The site offers dictionaries of all kinds: medical, scientific, geographical and foreign lan­guages. 
Dictionary .com also offers a translator tool, with the added feature of translating entire Web pages simply by typing in the site's address. As with all foreign language translation programs, however. it is always best to check closely what the computer gives you, as the translation is by no means guaranteed. 
Dictionary.com provides its own diversions, with daily crosswords, word search puzzles, and a Word of the Day which can even be subscribed to by e-mail. With resources like writing tips and grammar. usage and style guides, Dictionary.com is a site to bookmark for compos­ing those brilliant, late-night papers. 
iTools.com 
While not as well known as other Web research sites, iTools.corn is a surprisingly complete resource for stu­dents. The site contains many different kinds of informa­tion, but a well-structured format makes it easy to navi­gate. 
From its homepage, iTools.com offers three basic ser­vices: Language Tools, Research-It! and Find-It!. Find-It! is a standard search engine, but the other two sites boast a variety of academic resources. 
Language Tools is similar to Dictionary.com, offering English and foreign language dictionaries and thesaurus­es, language translators and rhyming dictionaries. An unusual feature is a link to AllWords.corn which allows you to listen to a pronunciation of the word you look up. 
Research-It! is iTools' largest collection of Web resources. Under "Library Tools" you can hunt for inspir­ing quotations to begin a paper or look up the lives of the rich and famous by searching through a biographical dic­tionary. The section on geography links you to maps of American streets and countries all over the world. 

Two other unusual sections include "Financial Tools" and "Shipping and Mailing Tools." Here iTools can con­vert American dollars to any foreign currency and look up stock market symbols and prices. If you know the track­ing number to a very important package, you can use Research-It! to chart its progress by typing in the tracking 
number. 

ltools.com does not offer the slick packaging or humorous diversions of SparkNotes.corn, but it still boasts a large collection of research resources on the 'Net. With a clear layout and dummy-proof search options, iTools pro­vides quick, simple answers all on one Web site. 
FreeBook-Notes.com 
In addition to SparkNotes, there are many other sites that offer free literature study guides. including Bookrags.com, PinkMonkey.corn and GradeSaver.com. While these sites vary in the number and quality of the Cliffs Notes-like synopses they offer (and all seem to play off of SparkNotes' claim to be written by Harvard grads), there is one Web site that brings all the sites together. 
FreeBookNotes.com has earmarked all the (supposedly) reputable book summa­ry sites and built up a listing of all the available titles. The site lists over 200 books. from "Invisible Man" to "Native Son." Once you choose a title from the alphabetical listing, FreeBookNotes.corn provides links to every site that offers lit­erature notes or chapter summaries on the work. Some sites like PinkMonkey .com require registration before you can access their study guides. Others like Bookrags.com and CarnpusNut.corn offer complete, well­written guides that rival SparkNotes.com and "Cliffs Notes.,. 
While FreeBookNotes.com can be a valuable resource, linking beweildered students up to pages that can clear up their literary problems, it is always inportant to remem­ber reading the abridge notes (or worse, writing an entire paper off the notes) is never a good idea. Not only could it border on plagarism, but every good professor can see through it in an instant. Drat. 
Encarta.msn.com and Britannica.com 
Of the many encyclopedias available online, Encarta and Britannica are two of the most complete. The well­known Encyclopedia Britannica offers a thorough search option, providing full-length articles on any topic, as well as pictures, movie clips and sound bytes. The Web site has an easy-to-use format, with categories on Art and Entertainment, Science and Technology and History and Humanities. These sections offer in-depth articles on cur­rent and controversial issues -an excellent resource for papers on history or ethics . 
On Encarta's Web site, the search begins by typing in either a keyword or a question you want answered. This option, much like the AskJeeves.com gimmick, can pro­vide more specific answers to general inquiries. 
Be warned though: many searches will return links marked by astericks. These entries require registration to Encarte Online Deluxe, only available if you have the Encarta Reference Suite on CD-ROM or DVD. While the deluxe version offers 25,000 more articles than the free version, it is still bothersome for those looking for a quick, free search. 
Encarta.rnsn.com includes additional reference tools ­dictionaries and atlases -while offering the same spe­cial-interest articles that Britannica.com offers for indepth research or browsing. Both Web sites return similar entries for general searches and the multi-media features that accompany many articles set these Internet encyclo­pedias apart from their ink and paper counterparts. 
At the rate the Internet continues to grow and become mainstreamed into American households, the trend of the future will continue to place books and reference materi­als online. 
While librarians may bemoan the dwindling numbers of students that walk thourgh their doors, the resources available online for college students makes it all too tempting to work from the comfort and ease of a dorm room. 
But no matter how much information or easy ways out that Web sites seem to promise, reading the SparkNotes or the Britannica.corn articles will never be a substitute for the real book. 
So if your eyes are bleary from an all-nighter and you start to panic because you know you'll never finish that seven page paper in two hours, fire up the Internet and start searching. Fast. 
But you can't always rely on those supposedly brilliant Harvard writers to do your work for you. 

Dictionary.com offers more than just definitions and pronuncia­tions; crossword puzzles and word searches are available for stu­dents' procrastination. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 21, 200 I 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 

Top seeded Huskies dominate Rams, advances to Sweet 16 
pressure on myself to really or anything like that until we VanDerveer said. "I'm very Louisiana Tech 's Kenya
Associated Press 

get after the ball. And I know won both games." disappointed to come in here Bibbs, on bottom, and Cheryl right now we need it," Cash and not do a better job." Ford celebrate on the floor ofSTORRS, Conn. 
said. "Svetlana's not here and While Oklahoma was misfir­the Thomas Assembly Center. 
Oklahoma 67, Stanford 50
Swin Cash and the 

she was a big rebounder from ing early in the second half, In the second round, Walker
The Oklahoma women's bas­
Connecticut Huskies made 

the guard position." Stanford was committing six of brought TCU to tears.
ketball team didn't let a size
quick work of yet another 

The win assured the defend­its 14 turnovers and was only Walker rebounded from her
mismatch get in the way of a
overmatched NCAA tourna­

ing champs of their seventh able to cut a six-point halftime worst game of the season with
second straight trip to the
ment opponent. 

30-game win season in eight deficit to two. 17 points and 11 rebounds as
NCAA regional semifinals. 

Cash had 18 points and 11 years. UConn beat Long Island "We kept our composure. Louisiana Tech beat Texas

Oklahoma coach Sherri
rebounds as the top-seeded 

University 101-29 in the first We stayed poised," Caufield Christian on Monday night in
Coale and LaNeishea Caufield
Huskies beat the Rams 89-44 

round, setting a tournament said. "We just kept playing the second round of the NCAA
revel in their victory over
on Monday night to reach the mark for the least number of together, working hard, tournament.

Stanford.
round of 16 for the seventh 

points allowed. because we believe if we just The Lady Techsters (30-4),
Stanford had more height at
straight year. 

The Rams (25-7) entered the keep working together and seeded third in the East
every position, but Oklahoma
"Everything goes back to our 

tournament 10th in the nation working hard, something good Regional, advanced to the
outrebounded the Cardinal by
defense," Cash said. "We were in 3-pointers, averaging seven was eventually going to hap­round of 16 for the ninth

18 and won in the second
getting out, pressing in the 

a game. The Huskies man-to­pen." straight year. all coming after
round of the West Regional on
wing, trying to make them go man defense gave them few The score was 47-43 when hosting a subregional.

Monday night. 
back door. Our defense took 

open looks. Midway through Dales hit a 3-pointer from the Walker, the Techsters' lead­
"Every player on our roster
care of everything, basically." 

the second half, the Rams had top of the key to start the 10-0 ing scorer, had a season-low
is smaller than them," coach
Connecticut (30-2) will play just eight field goals. Colorado run that gave the Sooners two points in the first round.

Sherri Coale said. "That
North Carolina State on 

State finished with three 3-their biggest lead to that point. though it was hardly a prob­
should give you some indica­
Saturday in Pittsburgh in the 

pointers, all in the first half. Powell scored consecutive lem for the Techsters as they
tion of why I'm so proud of
East Regional semifinals. 

"In my 20-year career, I baskets to get Stanford within beat Georgia State by 36. 
these kids."
It will he a homecoming for don·t think I've ever taken a 10 with 4:57 to play, but the Regardless. Walker was

The Sooners (28-5) missed
Cash, who grew up in the 

beating like this," Rams coach Cardinal got no closer. downright distraught.
their first 14 shots of the sec­
Pittsburgh suburb of 

Tom Collen said. "My hope is Stanford missed its first six "I didn't want to have a
ond half, but didn't give up the
McKeesport. She anchored the that it doesn't reflect badly on shots while Oklahoma went 4-game like that ever again,"

lead and used a 10-0 run later
Huskies' strong post play and this team or the type of season of-7, including 3-pointers by Walker said. "I have good

to take control for good. 
combined with Asjha Jones, 

they had." Caufield and Hill, to take an teammates that were behind
LaNeishea Caufield scored
Tamika Williams and Kelly 

The Rams won the Mountain 11-2 lead. me ... and great coaches."
18 points, Caton Hill had 14
Schumacher for 37 points, 33 West conference title to earn Stanford started getting the Coach Leon Barmore said

points and 14 rebounds, and
rebounds and five blocks. 

their eighth tournament berth. ball inside more effectively Walker was about as "low as
All-America Stacey Dales
They were an imposing four­"Now we know what to shoot and got back into the game. you could get the other night"

scored 14 as the Sooners won
some from the opening tip. 

for," Rams forward Heather Enghusen, who at 6-foot-7 is and wasn't sure how she
in front of a school-record
"They are huge," said Lisa 

Haanen said. five inches taller than any would bounce back.
crowd of 11,050. 
Narkiewicz, who led the Rams Jones opened the game with Oklahoma player. scored 10 in It took the 6-foot-2 junior all

"You can't be intimidated by
with 14 points. "You try to 

a 3-pointer to start a 13-3 run. a seven-minute span in which of 15 seconds to put her coach
height," Dales said. "As you
block them out and it didn't 

The Rams were unable to hit Stanford cut the deficit to 28-at ease, scoring on Louisiana
pound it inside, you draw
look like we we're blocking 

consecutive field goals in the 23. Tech's first possession. She
attention and get kickouts,
them out. I don't think they 

first half and trailed 44-26 at "It just came down to com­followed that up by blocking
and that really allows our
moved a centimeter." 

the break. ing out and being aggressive, TCU's first shot and the
guards to do a lot on the
UConn outrebounded the 

Cash's putback opened the and they came out more Techsters were on their way
perimeter."
Rams 53-27, getting 29 on the second half as UConn ran off aggressive than we did." to an 18th consecutive victory. 

Oklahoma, seeded No. 2, will 
defensive boards. The Huskies with an 11-2 spurt. Enghusen said. "They came "I felt like if Walker got off

play sixth-seeded Washington
scored 31 points off Colorado Sue Bird had 16 points for out like they had more confi­to a good start, then every­

in the regional semifinals
State turnovers. 

UConn. Freshman Diana dence then we did and they body would follow suit,"
Saturday in Spokane. Wash. 
"They were fabulous today," Taurasi had seven points, six came out like they really Barmore said.

Cori Enghusen tied her
coach Geno Auriemma said of assists and six rebounds. wanted it." After Essence Perry scored

career high with 14 points and
his post players. "We've got to 

Heather Haneen, who shot a Stanford has not made it Louisiana Tech's first eight
tied a school record with six of
take advantage of that. We 

career-high six 3-pointers in past the second round of the points of the second half,
Stanford's 11 blocks. Nicole
don't have as many automatics the Rams' first-round win over tournament since 1997. Walker scored the next six to

Powell also scored 14 for the
any more." 

Maryland, was held to three open up a 52-36 lead.
Cardinal.
The Huskies put together the points. A turnaround jumper by

Stanford (19-11) played well Louisiana Tech 80,back-to-back blowouts without Cash expects to be bombard­Walker with 3:30 left made it

enough defensively. holding
AU-Americans Shea Ralph and Texas Christian 59
ed with ticket requests when 69-49.
Oklahoma to 32.8 percent
Svetlana Abrosimova, out with Ayana Walker was so upset
she returns home. Tricia Payne scored 13
shooting. But the Cardinal
season-ending injuries. "There's probably a lot of with her performance in points to lead 11th-seeded
only shot 33 percent and
Cash said she's had to step messages in my room waiting Louisiana Tech's first-round TCU (25-8), which could not
couldn't overcome Oklahoma's
up her game to fill part of that victory that she cried when
for me," she said. "Everybody hold up against Tech's defen­
edge on the backboards.
void but knows she can do expected us to be there, but I she was taken out of the game sive pressure and dominant
"To me, rebounding is

more. couldn't talk about the tickets for good. inside game. 
effort," coach Tara
"I don't think I put enough 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. A1 classifieds must be prepaid. The: charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CHILDCARE NEEDED: ND prof  2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT.  Spring Break Appetizer  And Maybe he will stage a grudge  
needs childcare in home T • Th  Need babysitter, pref. Early ed  NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE  Mexican Blankets from $12.95 +  match with "Dubya" when he comes  
WANTED  mornings, ideally 9-2 but al least 9­ major, own trans. 2-yr.-old by  BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.  S&H  to campus.  
1. Three great kids, 5,3, 1 . Large  Martins 272-1205  Mexiconnection.com  
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  comfortable home 1 mile from cam- CALL 219-298-3800.  Run DMC is a big pain to all of you  
Make a difference in the life of a  pus. Own transportation required.  Eurcpe $199 one way.  who know what I am talking about ­ 
child! Summer therapy camp tor children with disabilities. Located on  Please call 631-3654 days, 289­3865 evenings or email meiss- FOR RENT  3 Houses still available for 2001-02. 5-6 BR, Furnished, W/D, prime  Mexian/Caribbean or Central America $250 round trip + tax.  succinate it!!  
shore of Lake Superior near Big  ner.1@nd.edu  locations, 233-9947 Greg.  Other worldwide destinations  do you think BDM has gotten any  
Bay, Ml. Positions available for  3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near  cheap. If you can beat these prices,  bigger since our last encounter?  
Counselors, Lifeguards, Instructors  Indiana Catholic couple with huge  campus 2001/02&summer 272­ start your own darn airline! Book  
for Nature/Arts & Crafts/ Recreation/Canoeing, Nurses,  hearts wishing to adopt a child. We can provide your baby with lots  6306  FOR SALE  tickets online www.airtech.com or (877) AIRTECH  Chuk, have you been exploring the world of modem art lately? Of yes:  
Therapists, Food Service, and  of love and a secure, stable life.  HOUSES FOR RENT; 1 )4-br  FYI: bridges are overrated  
Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic,  Reasonable expenses will be paid.  $700/month 2)3-br. $600/month  SPRING BREAK-DOWNTOWN  Need a dress for upcoming  
responsible, and love children. June  For more info, call Rebecca re Larry  We'll make almost any changes to  CHICAGO!  SYRs/Formals? I'm selling several  Our EiC is now 'Marriott Miken  
17 through August 12. Salary,  &Kathy: toll-free 1-866-30-ADOPT  the houses, Call Bill at 675-0776  $22-25/night-Hostelling lntOI $2  formal dresses that have only been  the Racine Marriott called to say  
Room & Board, and experience of a  OFF WITH AD  worn once. Call 284-4446 for info,  they are anxiously awaiting your  
lifetime provided. Cati or write for  LOSE WEIGHT! EAT WHAT YOU  4-BR HOUSEi CENTRAL AIR SEC  312/360-0300 or  arrival and will greet you with a  
application and information. Bay  UKEJ WEIGHT WATCHERS ON  SYS ETC. $600/MONTH. 291-2209  www.hichicago.org  reception.  
Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette,  CAMPUS SERVICE Your super-convenient dream diet  Maco~~mict:1ia . a.,Qrg  PERSONAL  blahblah  
Ml 49855, (906)228-5770, e-mail  from a name you trust is coming to  Bed and Breakfast for ND and SMC  PHONE CARDS  
BayCliffHC@aol.com  Notre Dame! No complicated count- graduation  $20:  The Crush is coming...  Jason Priestley is  
ing! Eat pizza, cookies, fast food ­ 3 miles from ND  2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR•  now announcer for indy cars  
Fraternities·sororities  any food you crave and lose weight.  2 rooms left  CHARGE  OK Noreen. I'm ready for some fun  what would Brenda say?  
Clubs*Student Groups  Get info-packed booklets, tons of  287-4545  or  on Saturday. We are going to party  
Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester  super-easy recipes, samples of  $20  like rock stars. I think we need to  bab~ baby baby  
withCampusfundraiser.com three  your great snack bars and special­ 3-5 bedroom homes  362 MIN WITH NO FEES  find 'BDM' for a date. He couldn't  light my way  
hour fundraising event  ized online support from trained  close to camp~s  634-1146 CLAUDIA  handle both of us.  
No sales required. Fundraising  Weight Watchers staff. You pay just  232-2595  634-4210 SARA  who would win in afight, Monk or  
dates are filling quickly, so call  $59 for 5 weeks. Summer is just  mmmrentals@aol.com  This is the official shout-out from  The Rock?  
today! Contact  around the comer  register today  Beatiful brass bed, queen size with  the middle of the left to  
Campusfundraiser.com at (888)  over the phone: 1-800-572-5727.  2 BR HOUSE PERFECT FOR SIN- orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  hey hey hey  
923-3238, or visit www campus­tundraiser com  Visa, MasterCard, and Discover Accepted  GLE/COUPLE $300/MO. Dave 291­2209  frame. All new, never used, still in plastic, $235219-862-2082  Professor Left who is off in the way, tar left field of the political spectrum.  good luck AM in your seat race  
- 

page 15

Wednesday, March 21, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
.., ... 


'. It'·• 
-.-..,'., 

.. ! .. 

i 
I. 

,..... 

: r t ·, .·~ Y>'1 . · r·it '), :'\ r': rv ·: r· ,-i·~-.. 
• I .~_l\.}ift ~ ..... I"' J a. ' • • ,,._. '-I , l ; • .,_, ·,) l • I 

'' 

., ,,. '' ...
r·\ 1 ~ r·r·: 
t··,....1 :Ti 

i -".. I :
••,.I·,../. ; " • ·v '~.J ~ " ;. 
,. .... ,.... ' ...,.. 
;-.. r i :~n 

; .·. 
, i .• .) I 1 1 
• ... ,~ • l f , 



(-~~ . )'~J!_ -·~ 
~ ' ' . . 
~ 
. . 

. · . Why work for one .com, when you can work for hundreds? 

, .-. .... 
~.,; t. ~ .. ?t :
I ' 
... ,., ..... +
of'••-. "' ~,.....,_., t .. -•• 

~ } ,. .. ' ,··:{' :·r1 r·, t--;: ·n 
t,

' ( -....... \ J f ., '-... " • __l k ! ! ' 
.I. 
..... C.
t: i i , " . l •

r ._.., • ..,,J ' '
·~"-''•f 

: .. " ~#°"""• • t, •• 
r~ . ,·.., !.-f~ 

"\._.,:•. ,•r
~•.,\:.·! (' 
1 

.. ·•i ,· ' ...,,.

r··., /., ,.... ""'t 
"~(.. : r~ ·, 
,I ? • •• 4 ~ '·,, ...• I I l "'" ...• \. ..... f i· 
' ' 


' .' ,: 
.;_.. "'··, \..; _,,-\ '. '.· "'..· ~ 
' > '
( ..... (.: 
-.... .. .: 

., ......-. 
r "'..., ·,_ ~ • 
,I ; ~ I • ..~ r t.' .r • .•. '., 
.. ' j... • ....... 
r ; -:-·~~-"•~
. . .... •. ­
1

• • . ' ~ i t J .. ,I • • ' 
......., ...,. 
l
• 

I 
> ·..... .... • ~ !
. ·-· 
. . . 
' 


-.. : .... 


FORTUNE" You haven't gotten this far by limiting 100 BEST your possibilities. And if you want to 
,, .....,.,. ·1 :··, .. , 
• : < ' 


COMPANIES§
TO WORK FOR C--.J go even farther. consider the possibilities at Ernst & Young. You'll have access to some of the most 
,,.., ....... ;. ,· 1­
r ,. ..... !J"' 
: -, , t J • 
• .J •..... , •

... "'4·· • • 
r • 
sophisticated tools in the technology industry and work with some of the companies that help define it. Log on . 
... -... 'i-:"'""' 
~ + t 





.. 



The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Wednesday, March 21, 2001 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT 

Stiles pours in 32, Southwest Missouri beats Rutgers 
Associated Press 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. 
Leading Southwest Missouri 
State past Rutgers in the 
NCAA Tournament is just 
what one would expect from 
Jackie Stiles, the NCAA 
worn en's career scoring 
leader. 
Jackie Stiles, left, made 16 
free throws and scored 3 2 
points Monday. 

But doing it two days after sustaining a mild concussion? Now that's impressive. 
Stiles scored 17 of her 32 points in the final 6:57 and Southwest Missouri State ended Rutgers' bid for a sec­ond straight Final Four berth by beating the Scarlet Knights 60-53 in the second round of the West Regional. 
"This is your senior year and you go for it with everything you got," said Stiles, who missed the final 10 minutes of Saturday night's first-round win over Toledo after being knocked woozy running into a pick. 
"My athletic training staff and the doctors traveling with us did a great job of getting me healthy for this game," she said. 
As soon as Stiles finished the sentence~ Southwest Missouri coach Cheryl Burnett quipped, "She plays like this, we're going to knock her in the head again." 
The victory was the eighth double figures for Southwest straight for the fifth-seeded Missouri State, although Carly Lady Bears (27-5). who will Deer hit two go-ahead free play top-seeded Duke in the throws and Melody Campbell West Regional semifinal at added a key baseline jumper Spokane, Wash., on Saturday. for a 49-45 lead with 2:25 to The Blue Devils beat Arkansas play. 75-54 Monday. Tasha Pointer had 15 points 
Fourth-seeded Rutgers, for Rutgers. but the senior which had made at least the point guard had a crucial round of 16 the last three turnover with about 12 sec­years, finished 23-8 after los­onds left and the Scarlet ing at home for the first time Knights down 56-53. in 14 games this season. "I was hit, and then it went 
'Tm in shock," senior Linda off my foot," said Pointer. who Miles said. "\Ve had the kept Rutgers in the game until opportunities. I just can't the late mistake. 
believe  we  Karl it a  
didn't  exe­ Washington  
cute." Stiles was the main rea­son Rutgers  "My hat's offto Jackie Stiles. She is the hardest working player."  added 12 points, Davalyn Cunningham  
fell short this  11 and Miles  
season, scor­ing the final six points for  C. Vivian Stringer Rutgers coach  10 for Rutgers. Neither  
the  Lady  team  led by  
Bears.  The  more  than  

senior guard hit 8-of-16 from seven points in the second half the field and 16-of-19 from and there were two ties, the the foul line in sending last coming when Washington Southwest Missouri State to hit a layup with 3:45 to play to the round of 16 for the first make it 45-45. time since 1993. Stiles missed a jumper on 
"My hat's off to Jackie the Lady Bears' next posses­Stiles," Rutgers coach C. sion, but Deer got the rebound Vivian Stringer said. "She is and was fouled. She sank both the hardest working player. ends of the 1-and-1 with 3:20 She deserves all the credit and to go to give Southwest all the respect. She is a WNBA Missouri State a lead it never player. I would love to have lost. her as a professional coach." · Nikki Jett missed two shots 
No other player scored in in the lane on Rutgers' next 
possession and Stiles fed Campbell for her only basket. 
Duke 75, Arkansas 54 

Duke's talented freshmen 
class won sprints, long dis­
tance runs and outworked 
upperclassmen in the weight 
room during the preseason. 
That group is now leading 
the Blue Devils deep into the 
NCAA tournament. 

Alana Beard had 14 points, seven rebounds and six assists, and Duke dominated inside to beat Arkansas Monday night to advance to the round of 16 for the fourth straight season. 
"You just never know with freshmen and how they're going to come into college," Duke coach Gail Goestenkors said. "This was a very unique class, that as a group. was the hardest working class we've ever had. Physically, they're strong." 
Beard and her four fresh­men teammates combined for 40 of Duke's points, going 18­of-33 from the field. 
"They are not freshmen any­more," Arkansas coach Gary Blair said. "Those freshmen grow up in a hurry." 
The top-seeded Blue Devils (30-3) set a school record for wins, holding the Lady Razorbacks without a basket for nearly 10 minutes en route to a game-closing 37-19 run. 
"Thirty wins -that's a lot of wins," said two-time Atlantic Coast Conference player of the 
year Georgia Schweitzer. 
"That's a great step for our 
program and hopefully by the 
time the (freshmen) graduate 
that will happen on a more 
regular basis." 
Sixth-seeded Arkansas (20­
13) knocked Duke out of a trip to the Final Four in 1998, but got outscored 44-14 in the paint this time in Cameron Indoor Stadium. 
"Their post defense was 
exceptional," Blair said. "That 
was the difference in the 
game. Our players were catch­
ing the ball 4 feet from the 
basket and we were shooting 
it from 8 feet." 
Duke will play South-west Missouri State, a 60-53 winner over Rutgers. in the West Regional semifinals in Spokane, Wash., on Saturday. 
The women joined the. Duke men's team in the NCAA round of 16. Nate James, Jason Williams, Chris Duhon and Casey Sanders watched their counterparts advance. 
Amy Wright and Dana Cherry led Arkansas with 11 points each. 
Duke led by seven at the break, and the Lady Razorbacks closed within three twice before the Blue Devils broke it open with a 12­0 run to go up 50-35. 
Arkansas closed to 54-44, but could get no closer and managed just 10 points during the final 11 minutes. 


The Irish Clover and Frank O 'Malley A wards. 
The Irish Clover A ward recognizes a faculty/staff person for outstanding service to the Notre Dame Student Body. 
The Frank O'Malley A ward is presented to a faculty member for their outstanding contribution to the Notre Dame Student Body. 
Help Recognize Outstanding Service to the Notre Dame Student Body. Pick-up a nomination form. 
Nominations are due March 23 by 3pm in the Student Government Office. 203 LaFortune. 




page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 21, 2001 

Tennis 
continued from page 24 
At 14-3 the Irish are playing the best they have in years and show no sign of slowing down. They have been ranked as high as fifth in the country and now sit at No. 
7. They are gearing up to make a strong showing to end out the season. After a little trouble deal­ing with their demanding sched­ule and high ranking, the Irish have bounced back and are play­ing tougher than ever. 
"This is probably better than we've ever been," said Louderback. 
"Early on it [the rankings] effected us some because we hadn't really been ranked that high before," said Louderback, "but as the season has gone on we are pretty much used to it and have quit thinking about it." 
The Irish will have their work cut out for them this weekend as they travel to Kentucky and Tennessee to take on the Wildcats and Volunteers who are both in the top 30. 
"We have the talent and fire power to beat anyone in the country but we need to take each match one at a time and we can't take anyone for granted," Louderback said. 
The road trip marks the second weekend in a row that the Irish are traveling and the team feels they need to stay focused and concentrate on every match. 
"They are both very good teams who play very we~ at home," said Louderback. 
KYLIE CARTER/The Observer 
"Kentucky and Tennessee are 

Michelle ·oasso competes in a recent match. The All-American
always a tough road trip but 

teamed with Becky Varnum to help the Irish sweep Miami in
we've gotten used to playing a lot 
doubles this past week.
on the road." 

•• • .• . ••••• ••••• •. •• • ••• •• •• • • • • • • •• • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • ~ ~ 
MEN'S TENNIS 
and Gray Classic 
tied the match by beating David By KATIE HUGHES Mullins 6-2 6-1 at No. 4 singles. Spores Writer Freshman Luis Haddock­
Morales then defeated Nick The Irish men's tennis team Fustar 6-4. 7-5 at No. 3 singles. Junior Javier Taborga, ranked
found their pot of gold the day after St. Patrick's day. 93rd, kept the momentum of the The Blue and Gold came match going, beating Sean Cooper 6-4, 7-6 in No. 2 singles.
home with a big Blue and Gray "I think as a team, we're real­
National Tennis Classic title on Sunday, continuing a spectacu­ly better outdoors," Daly said. 
lar run of victories that the Irish "Indoor tennis favors quick points and big serves. What we
have not seen the likes of in have is a lot ofscrappy guys."
over a decade. Fresno State's 35th-ranked
The 26th-ranked Irish beat Peter Luczak defeated Notre
22nd-ranked Fresno State 4-2 by dominating in singles action. Dame junior Casey Smith at No. 1 singles, but then sophomore
"Going in, we were pretty fired up. The day before, we Brian Farrell increased his win­had had a big crowd from ning streak to nine in a row by Auburn. cheering against us, beating the Bulldogs' No. 5 sin­gles. Daly didn't even have to
and that actually motivated us a lot," said senior Matt Daly. finish his match against Alex Menichini in No. 6 singles after
The Irish went into their 
Farrell's victory.

match against Fresno after defeating Tulane and Rice 4-0, "Right down the line, from one to six, everyone came out
and then beating 18th-ranked really fired up and played really
Auburn to reach the finals of the tournament. well." said Daly. The Blue and Grey victory
"They really took it to us in brings the Irish winning streak
doubles," Daly said. "We were to 10 in a row. the longest
kind of lacksidaisical in doubles, 
streak since winning 14 straight
and that was kind of a disap­pointment. But I think that in 1990. "Ever since Duke we've been
might have been a good thing on a roll," Daly said. "This is a
for us in singles." 

really important part of our sea­
Then the Irish got crazy in 
son. Our next four matches are
Alabama, denying a Fresno tri­against top 20 teams, and we're
umph with their unstoppable 
not looking for a letdown."

singles. Junior Aaron Talarico 
! : ~= ~= ~ ! ;: =~ !: !.· ! : •••· !.· •· •• !·. ·.: •. !·•.••.•. 

····•a·· .. licc1tic,n·s ·for·· ·················· 
...... pp.. ...................... .• . 
•. •. L .... d.. .... •d· ····1 ··•·•·,.•··•··•···•• •• ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
•.•.1!191'•. J .9.tl•.•-~P.. 9. .9.r: ~ 

,.t., .. 
····ar 1h·e· sua·office· ········· 
.. .. .. .. ...... .. .. .... .. .... .,...... • • 
•···clue ·3~2 ··•· .. •· ··•· •· •· •· 
•• •• •• •• •• • •• •• •• •• •• • • •• •• •• •• •• •• •••••••• ..•••••. . .
•• •• •• •• •• • • •• • • •• • • •• •••••• . 
• • •• •• •• •• •• •• • • •• •• •• •• • • •• •• •• •• •• •••••••••••••• •• •·••·• 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• •• •· •• 
• • . . ••
• • •• • • •• •• •• •• •• • • •• • • •• • • •• •••••••• . . •• •• •• •· 
... . .. . . .... .... .. .... .. . ... ...-............ • • 
.. .... .. . . .... .... .. .... .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .... ... . .. .... ...... .... ..·.: :•. ·. ·• .. .. ... .• • .. 
···••· •••• ·• ·• •• ·••· ·••· ·••· ·••· •· •• ·• ·• ···••· •••• ·• ·• =~!~~=!::: •· !:;!!~:: :!:~!~·••· 


Wednesday, March 21, 200 I 

The Observer . SPORTS page 19 

NASCAR 

Earnhardt autopsy photos spark debate 
The photos "ft was done by the 
ment on 
then will be 

attending physician whether 
permanently 
Bohannon

and not an intruder
sealed as 
was that

requested by or outsider. ., 
expert.
Teresa 
Bohannon
Earnhardt 
doesn't have

Thom Rumberger
because of pri­
a published 

vacy concerns. Earnhardt attorney 
home phone 
Associated Press

\roo~ "" an first {lass ilteppers 
ORLANDO, Fla. 
A Daytona International Speedway doctor reviewed Dale Earnhardt's au topsy photos before they were sealed, an action that may jeopardize an agreement between the driver's widow and the Orlando Sentinel. 
Sentinel attorney David Bralow said he hasn't decided whether the disclosure that Dr. Steve Bohannon looked at the photos puts the agreement in jeopardy but added: "We're looking at our options." 
The deal reached last week limits access to the photos, which are public records under Florida law. 
The Sentinel had tried to have its own medical expert review the images. Instead, an inde­pendent medical expert will look at the photos and then sub­mit a report to the newspaper and the Earnhardt family on the cause of death and an explana­tion of certain head injuries. 
7:30 PM Washington Hall 
"Do you think we would have been as accommodating had we known that NASCAR had an opportunity for its own expert to review them?" Bralow said Tuesday. "As far as I'm con­cerned. when something is pri­vate, it's private." 
But Earnhardt attorney Thom Rumberger said the Sentinel should think twice before trying to get out of the agreement. · · 
"As far as I'm concerned, the Sentinel has pledged their honor, their faith and their for­tunes to that agreement," Rumberger said. 
Earnhardt died at the Daytona 500 Feb. 18 after crashing into a wall at an esti­mated 170 mph. 
Volusia County officials had contended that nobody other than the medical examiner's staff had viewed his autopsy photos. But a visitor's log obtained by the Sentinel showed that Bohannon looked at the photos for 35 minutes on Feb. 21, three days after Earnhardt's death. 
Bohannon is director of emer­gency services at the speedway and accompanied Earnhardt in 
the ambulance to the hospital where he was pronounced dead. 
The day afier Bohannon viewed the photos, Volusia County Circuit Judge Joseph Will granted a temporary injunction requested by the Earnhardt family that sealed the photos from public viewing. 
A day later, Bohannon said at a NASCAR news conference in North Carolina that Earnhardt might have survived the crash if his lap belt had not broken. Earnhardt probably was thrown into the steering wheel because he wasn't fully supported, Bohannon said. 
The Sentinel is investigating whether safety-devices avail­able to stock-car drivers could have saved Earnhardt. 
NASCAR President Mike Helton said Saturday that a NASCAR medical expert had reviewed the autopsy photos as part of the circuit's investiga­tion into Earnhardt's death. NASCAR spokesman John Griffin didn't return a phone call Tuesday seeking com­
number and 
K a t e 
Holcomb, a spokeswoman at 
Halifax Medical Center where 
he works in the emergency 
room, said Bohannon wasn't 
granting any interviews. 
Rumberger said Tuesday that he wasn't sure when Mrs. Earnhardt found out that Bohannon had viewed the pho­tos. The lawyer said he was under the belief that Bohannon viewed the photos in his role as the attending physician, not a NASCAR medical expert. 
"I have no reason to believe that she would be concerned," Rumberger said. "It was done by the attending physician and not an intrude.r: or outsider, someone trying to invade Mrs. Earnhardt's privacy." 
Sentinel executives had said repeatedly they had no inten­tion of publishing the photos but only wanted a medical expert to review them for an investiga­tion into NASCAR safety. 
But Mrs. Earnhardt's attor­neys argued that other news organizations would be able to have access to the photos if the Sentinel was granted permis­sion. 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 21, 2001 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Knish, freshman Belles sizzle in Arizona road trip 




-DOROTHY CARDER/The Observer A Saint Mary's tennis player returns a shot in a recent match. The Belles dominated the competition in Arizona, winning all four matches. 


Attention: ND, SMC, HCC Students, Faculty, and Staff 

SIGNUPS 
Monday, March 19-Wednesday, March 28 Cost: $15 
WHEN and WHERE: 11:00-2:00 pm and 5:00-8:00 pm 1ST FLOOR LAFUN BY ELEVATOR 
Check out our website and sponsors: 
W'.VW.nd.edu/~bkstr/ 
By KATIE McVOY Associare Spores Ediror 
The weather wasn't the only thing that was hot in Arizona last week. The Saint Mary's tennis team smoked its compe­tition, winning four match~s to start the season. 
"The weather was great," head coach Dec Stevenson said. 
The Belles won 29 sets dur­ing their four victories in Phoenix as the freshman play­ers stepped up to fill the spots left by graduating seniors Katie Vales and Becky Kremer. 
"Our freshmen played pretty well," Stevenson said. 
The freshmen finished the week with combined record of 15-2, with the only losses com­ing in No. 3 singles and No. 3 doubles. 
On Thursday, the Belles ended the week with an impressive 6-3 victory over Div. II Colorado Christian College, which boasted several scholarship athletes. The Belles took five of six singles games and one of three dou­bles. The only loss in singles came as Annie Knish fell to Colorado's Katie Fitzgerald 8­0. 
"Annie Knish played an out­standing player [Fitzgerald] who had just transferred in from a Div. I school," Stevenson said. 

Freshmen Jeannie Knish and Kaitlin Cutler dominated in No. 2 singles and No. 3 singles, both by 8-5 margins. 
Junior Natalie Cook, playing No. 4 singles, and freshman Kris Spriggle, playing No. 5 singles, both claimed close matches that exceeded the normal eight-point victory mark. Cook and Spriggle each left the court victorious after defeating her opponent 9-8. 
Sophomore Elisa Ryan wrapped up singles with an 8­3 victory over Colorado's Laura Spence. 
The No. 2 doubles team of Jeannie Knish and Cutler took home the only doubles victory, defeating their opponents 9-7. 
Annie Knish and Cook (No. 1 doubles) and freshmen Annie Basinski and junior Elizabeth Spieth (No. 3 doubles) dropped their sets 1-8 and 6-8 respec­tively. 
The victory over Colorado Christian College came in the same day as a Saint Mary's victory over Webster State, a Div. III college from St. Louis, Mo. The Belles claimed eight sets to win 8-1, taking their only loss in No. 2 singles. 
The Knish sisters led the charge with Annie, at No. 1 singles, defeating her oppo­nent in three sets (4-6, 6-2, 6­1), and Jeannie, at No. 3 sin­gles, defeating her opponent in two sets (6-1, 6-1). 
Cutler and Ryan both held 
their opponents scoreless. defeating them 6-0, 6-0. Spriggle added the final sin­gles victory with a 2-0 victory (6-1, 6-2). 
Cutler added another shut­out to her tally along with partner Jeanie Knish as they dominated No. 1 doubles 8-0. Sophomore Trisha Jones and Ryan claimed No. 2 doubles 8­3, and sophomores Angie Sandner and Marta Dziekan took No. 3 doubles 8-1. 
Stevenson had been counting on his No. 5 and 6 singles play­ers and his No. 3 doubles team to play key roles in Saint Mary's victories. They did their jobs in the Belles first two vic­tories of the Arizona trip. 
Saint Mary's defeated Scottsdale Community College in nearby Scottsdale 6-3 in a match that allowed a real team effort. 
"All 12 players on spring break got to play," Stevenson said. 
The 6-3 victory came on three singles wins and a sweep by the doubles teams. 
Jeannie knish-shut out her opponent in No. 3 singles 6-0, 6-0 and was followed by a 2-0 (6-1,6-1) victory by Cutler at No. 4 singles. Spieth added the first victory. defeating her opponent 2-0 (6-1, 6-3). 
Annie Knish. Cook and Dziekan dropped their match­es 2-1, 2-0, and 2-1 respective­ly. 

... 



Tuesday, March 20, 2001 

The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
BASEBALL 

The Faces Of Holy Cross Surging Irish to take 
on Cleveland State 
Moreau Seminary Sweet Sixteen Bookstore 2000 Finalists 
,. Holy Cross: Play Hard, Pray Harder 
ANSWER ~ THECALL '<!Y 

-www.nd.edu/ ---vocation 

By CHRIS FEDERICO -Sports Writer 

Fresh off of a successful road trip to California in which they went 7 ­0-1. won the Pepsi/Johnny Quik Classic and earned Coach Paul Mainieri his 
600th career victory, the Notre Dame baseball team looks to con­tinue its streak with its first home game against 


Cl eve l a n d Mainieri State (6-8) today. 

The eighth-ranked Notre Dame squad (13-2-1), which is off to its best start since 1959, is set to fine­tone its skills against the Vikings before kicking off play in the Big East on Friday at Pittsburgh. 
So far this year, the Irish have been extremely successful with a combination of masterful pitching and clutch hitting. The Irish pitching staff has held opponents to a .229 batting average while posting an impressive 2.88 team ERA. 
Meanwhile, Irish batters have fared much better than their coun­terparts, hitting .303 as a team and scoring 5.63 runs per game. 
"Coach Mainieri always tells us that anyone can hit \.\ith nobody on 
E??G'TT'J"""."'.GZ:::::::::::-::,-;-:::;;;;;:s;;;;=:;;;::;;=::;;:=;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;:;;:::;:;;;;:;;::;-::::::::'T'."7Tss'Ts:7077s?i0!"77TfTY"""T"""TsT7;;:;Z::::s:;;~~7l base," junior Steve Stanley said. "But good hitters are the ones that hit just as well with runners on. 

That's how you score runs and win 
ballgames." 
Sophomore pitcher Peter Ogilvie will get his second start of the sea­son. coming off an impressive five inning outing in which he only gave up three hits and one unearned run. 
Ogilvie should get some offensive help from the "3 S" hitting tandem of freshman Steve Sollmann, Stanley and sophomore Brian Stavisky. These three have been red-hot recently, batting .439, .417 and .406, respectively. 
Even more impressive, however, is their hitting in the clutch. Each has a higher batting average with runners on base than with the bases empty. 
The Vikings have six wins on the year, winning four of their last five. 
"We're looking forward to our first home game. Hopefully the weather will stay nice, and we can get some fans out to the ballpark to see us play," Stanley said. "We'd really like to start off the home sea­son with a win." 
However, they have yet to play a team with the talent of the Irish, and they may be somewhat worn out having played five games in the last five days. 
The Irish can expect to see fierce bats from Cleveland State catcher Doug Besozzi (.343 average) and designated hitter Mike Lehman, who has had two three-hit games this year against Brown and George Mason. 
The Irish kick off their home sea­son today at 4:05 p.m. 

Texas Tech faculty to discuss ~ight hiring
ISSA Presents the 3rd Annual 

International Wee/{., 
Tuesday, March 20th -Saturday, March 24th
-·~---. 

.t ,,r ·'" · · "'· Come and enjoy a week of international 
cultural displays, entertainment, andfood! 
Free for everyone! 
Schedule of Events: 











= OPENING DAY= TRIVIA CONTEST -Prove your knowledge ofthe World! Tuesday, March 20 
12 Noon -LaFortune Student Center INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL -Maborosi (Japan. 1996) 7 PM and 9 PM -Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center 
. 

MATINEE -International Film Festival -Bulgarian Animation-
Wednesday, March 21 
2 PM -Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center 

BOOK READINGS -International Women's Club -Readings from
Thursday, March 22 

International Literature -3:30 PM -5:00 PM -Hammes Bookstore 
DAY I -INTERNATIONAL VILLAGE-
Friday, March 23 

9AM -5PM -LaFortune Student Center (1st and 2nd Floors) INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL -DOUBLE FEATURE Waking Ned Devine (Ireland, 1998) ­6 PM -Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center Leningrad Cowboys Go America (Finland/Sweden, 1989) ­8 PM -Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center INTERNATIONAL SPORTS TOURNAMENT ­7PM -I OPM -Rolfs Sports Center 
DAY 2 -INTERNATIONAL VILLAGE ­
Saturday, March 24 

9 AM -3 PM -LaFortune Student Center ( lstand 2nd Floors) 
CULTURE FEST -Dances, Poetry Recitals, Songs & more
. 
7:30 PM -? -Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

For up-to-date information, visit our vveb site at: http:/ /www.nd.edu/~issa 
Sponsored by: International Student Services and Activities 204 LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Phone: (219) 631-3825 E-mail: issa@nd.edu http://www.nd.edu/~issa 
Associated Press 

LUBBOCK, Texas 
Texas Tech faculty who oppose Bob Knight don't expect much support from their colleagues at a meeting Wednesday to discuss a new basketball coach. 
About 85 of Tech's 900 faculty members signed a petition last week criticizing Knight's past behavior and advising against hir­ing him, but some see it as a done deal. 
Knight, who could be hired as soon as Friday, will be the subject of a faculty senate meeting \Vednesday at which president David Schmidly is expected to speak. 
"There was always a hope ­not a very large one -that this would head this off," said geogra­phy professor Gary Elbow, a Knight opponent. 
"I still do feel like the university is taking a rather sizable risk in hiring Bobby Knight, but they are entitled to hire whoever they want. We have raised the flag, and that's all we could do," he said. 
University regent James Sowell said he doesn't expect the input from faculty members to Schmidly to be "inconsequential." 
"The president wants to hear what they have to say," Sowell said. "The faculty definitely has a right to have a say in this issue." 
But the ultimate decision whether to hire Knight rests with Schmidly, who will make a recom­mendation to Tech chancellor John Montford. 


Ben Detwiler hoped to make the world a better place. That hope died when he was killed by a drunk driver. 
What should you do to stop a friend from driving drunk? Whatever you have to. Friends don't let friends drive drunk. 
0 

II.I~ofTranaportallM 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 21, 2001 

SOFTBALL 
Notre Dame loses in semis of Kia Klassic 
Special to The Observer 
· The 14th-ranked Notre Dame softball team lost in the semifi­nals of the 2001 Kia Klassic to ninth-ranked Cal State Fullerton (24-8) after a thrilling late-game rally fell just one run short in the bottom of the seventh inning. 
The Irish are now 18­3 on the season and complete the most successful Spring Break trip in the pro­gram's his­tory. Notre Dame post­ed a 7-2 record on its traditional swing through Southern California, posting four victories over ranked teams in the process (a doubleheader sweep of No. 24 Cal State Northridge and wins over No. 7 Fresno State and No. 10 Arizona State in the Kia Klassic). 
The matchup with the Cal State Fullerton Titans had everything a spectator could expect when two of the best softball teams in the nation square off. 
Dramatic home runs, late­
inning errors, rallies by both 
teams and numerous close calls 
throughout the contest left the 
700 softball fans at the Titan 
Softball Complex in Fullerton. 
Calif.. begging for just one more 
inning when the game ended. 
Fullerton jumped on the board 
in the top of the second inning. 
Monica Lucatero was hit by Jen 
Sharron's first pitch of the 
inning, the first of three batters 
the Irish starter would plunk in 
the game. Gina Oaks followed 
with a single to center and 
pinchrunner Kristy Halagarda 
advanced to third base. Sharron 
recorded "the first out of the 
inning by striking out Amanda 
Hockett, but lost control of the 
first pitch to Amy Larocque to 
load the bases on another hit­
by-pitch. 
Jennifer Holt followed with a 
tough at bat, eventually drawing 
a walk to score the first run of 
the game. Sharron worked out 
of the bases loaded jam when 
Julie Watson grounded into a 
fielder's choice and Oaks was 
forced out at home plate. Jenny 
Topping followed with a streak­
ing lineout to right-centerfield 
on which Notre Dame's Jenny 
Kriech made a spectacular div­
ing catch, ending the Titan scor­
ing threat. 
Typical of the pattern the Irish 
have set for the season, when 
the opposing team gets a lead in 
the game, Notre Dame does its 
best to make sure it doesn't last 
long. Lizzy Lemire led off the 
bottom of the second with a sin­
gle, followed by Andrea Loman's 
long single. down the leftfield 
line. Titan starting pitcher Oaks 
then threw away a routine 
groundball off the bat of Andria 
Bledsoe, allowing Lemire to 
come around and tie the game. 
Kas Hoag lined out to third 
base for the first out of the 
inning. Alexis Madrid then laid 
down a bunt for the squeeze 
play, but CSUF defended the 
play perfectly and threw Loman 
out at the plate. With runners 
on the corners, Madrid stole 
second base to move into scor-ing position for Kriech. The Irish junior answered the call. ripping an UBI single to leftfield that scored Bledsoe, but Madrid was thrown out at the plate to end the inning. 

Fullerton would tie the game in the fourth inning after Hockett led off with a double and eventually scored on a Holt RBI single. 
Sharron was unable to keep the Titan offense off the score­board in the fifth inning and fell victim to another hit-by-a-pitch. Her fifth pitch of the fifth inning struck Jodie Cox, marking the fourth of five innings that CSUF placed the lead off batter on base. Yasmin Mossadeghi sin­gled and eventually moved to second when Lucatero grounded out to second base. Oaks deliv­ered a sacrifice fly that scored Cox on a close play at the plate and Hockett put her team up by two runs with a RBI single. 

Kristin Schmidt relieved Sharron to start the sixth inning and made just one mistake in two innings of work. The Irish freshman gave Topping, one of the best power hitters in the nation, a pitch too high in the zone that the Titan catcher deposited over the fence in cen­terfield for a solo home run. Notre D;;i.me was suddenly fac­ing a three-run deficit with only six outs to make up the differ­ence. 
Belles finish trip with 6 wins 
By MOLLY McVOY Senior Staff Writer 
After a slow start. the Saint 
Mary's softball team went on a 
six-game winning streak to end 
their trip to Fort Myers with a 6­
5 record and an 8-5 record 
overall. 
"We struggled a little with the 
sticks the first few days we were 
down there, but we came back 
with six straight wins at the end 
of the week," said John Kovach, 
the Belles" first year head 
coach. 
On Friday, the Belles split a 
double header with a win 
against Edgewood College, 3-0 
and a loss to Ursinus College, 6­
3. Freshman pitcher Libby Wilhelmy pitched the win against Edgewood giving her a 3-0 record for the trip. The team captains and the coach pointed to Wilhelmy's performance as one of the high points of the trip. "What's nice is we have more 
flexibility," Kovach said. "Libby Wilhelmy pitched a couple · games and she was just wonder­ful. I think she walked some­thing like two batters in the 22 innings she pitched. It was really 
a plus." 
"With Libby, its nice to have an extra pitcher so, if something would happen to Kristin or I. we know we would be fine," senior co-captain and starting pitcher Anne Senger said. ··we have another good pitcher ready to go." 

The pitching was strong throughout the trip with the three pitchers giving up an aver­age of three runs per game over the course of the week. 
"The thing I was really pleased with overall was that the pitching kept us in every game," Kovach said. 
Saint Mary's beat Renn Poly Institute, 1-0, and Hamilton College, 14-5, on Thursday. Senger pitched a one-hitter against Renn Poly and junior Kristin Martin got the win against Hamilton. Freshman Marnie Walsh had a three hit game that included a home run in the Hamiltion game. 
"We were really impressed with the freshmen this week, so that was great," Martin said. 
Pitching again dominated Tuesday with a sweep of the day's games. Senger allowed four hits in the 3-1 win over St. Joseph's College and Martin showed her versatility by deliv­ering three hits for the Belles. 
"It was a little bit of a slow start because we didn't hit very well, but once we got into the swing of things and started hit­ting, we started to win," Senger said. "Our defense is really strong and we just need consis­tent hitting." 
Wilhelmy was backed up by solid hitting in a 5-1 win over Salve Regina Tuesday. Freshman Katerina Tebbe tripled and homered and sopho­more Susan Kutz added another home run, two RBIs and two runs scored. 
"Kutz just smacked the ball all over the place," Kovach said. "At No. 8, she's at a good spot in the batting order, and we've been getting runners on in front of her." 
The close 1-0 win over SUNY­Brockport on Monday was the first win that the Belles needed to start the six-game winning streak for the week. Wilhelmy recorded her first win in the game and Kutz hit the game­winning home run. 
Wheaton College and North Park handed Saint Mary's two losses Monday. 4-3 and 5-4. Martin pitched the Wheaton game and Senger pitched against North Park in which Kutz drove in another home run. 
The Belles dropped both games on their first day in Ft. Myers, losing to Transylvania University 3-0 and St. John Fisher 6-2. 
Saint Mary's travels to Bethel College on Thursday for a dou­ble header. The two teams did not meet last year, but the Belles expect a close, competi­tive game. 
"Typically. Bethel has a good club," Kovach said. "They will be a good match for us." 
Although Martin suffered a slight injury to her knee over the trip, she is expected to start one of the games along with Senger. 
we mav have seen vour nose around there before, but now vou can get vour game on at the bars. 

..... 

Wednesday, March 21, 200 I 

The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TYLER
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
Fox TROT BILL AMEND 



HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Matthew Broderick, Rosie O'Donnell, Tnnothy Dalton, Ayrton Senna, Gary Oldman, Cynthia Geary 
Happy Birthday: You can do no wrong this year. Your articu­late, clever style will capture the attention of those individuals who can help you make your dreams come true. The rewards are there for you_ to grab, so don't waste time thin.king about what you want to do. Push your ideas and don't stop until you are satisfied with the results. Your numbers: 3, 18, 22, 29, 36, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't let your independent nature hold you back from asking for some much needed help. Assistance will be given readily and open up new avenues for friendships and partnerships to unfold. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't let your emotional prob­lems interfere with your profes­sional responsibilities. Keep your wits about you while operating equipment. Your difficulties are causing poor concentration. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Rest and relaxation will be more beneficial than you think. Don't spend too much on products that promise amazing cosmetic results. A little exercise and proper diet will do wonders. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Take a close look at your personal papers. You should probably inake some changes before your tax deadline. Don't leave things to the last minute and then worry about the outcome. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be in a make-it or break-it situation when it comes to your partner­ships. Don't be too eager to move 
EUGENIA LAST 
on. Look at all your options and re-evaluate your own motives. You can make it work. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
You'll be tempted to spend too much on entertainment. Trips will be costly and so will your lover if you allow it. Safe investments will be your salvation. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
Make plans to go ahead with that change that you've been contem­plating. You will have the disci­pline to stop those bad habits you picked up last year. It's time to tum your life around. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Limitations at home are likely if you've been restrictive or just plain difficult to get along with. You can make amends if you do something special for the ones you love. 00 
SAGIITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 20: 
Opposition is likely if you haven't been completely honest. It's best to avoid confrontations. Don't make changes involving your domestic scene. Accept the inevitable and learn. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Ja.n. 19): You can make money if you con­centrate on producing services or goods that will make domes­tic chores easier. Your own small business on the side sounds pretty inviting. 000 
AQUARIUS Oan. 20-Feb. 18): Your emotional stability is in ques­tion. Be careful not to let anyone play with your heart. You need time to think: Confusion is evident regarding your love life. 00 
-PISCl!S (Feb. 19-March 20): Educational ·ts will be uplift­ing and will ~ahigher-paying job. Opportunities for advance­ment canbe yours if you make the necessary changes. 000 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Cons 9 Italian paper 
once edited by Mussolini 15 Redeemed 16 Mark 17 Facing 18 Suspended 19 Much 20 Features of some camps 22" Need" (1985 hit) 
23 Boxer's problem 
25 Smell 
26 lenient 
27 Affectionate address 
30 $200 purchases: Abbr. 
32 Educ. test 33 Sword handle 34 More mawkish 36 Associate 39 They may be 
cut or slashed 40 "The Sibylline _" (ancient religious collection) 42 1997 Jackie Robinson commemoration site 43 Network based in D.C. 44 letters that please an angel 
45 lamented 
48 Get friendlier 
50 Ute-Aztecan 
language 
52 NASA pressure unit 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

54 Epidemic 55 La Scala debut of 1887 58 Incandescent, in 
product names 59 Undisturbed 61 Prelude to an 
explosion, perhaps 63 Be poised (on) 64 Be false 65 Rangers and Citations 66 Is sure not to miss 
DOWN 
1 "That's nothing!," for example 2 An incendiary 3 Ocean diver 4 "_says?!" 5 Taunt 6 Comics dog 7 Cameo 8 Mean mien . 9 Entr'acte part 
10_rouge 11 Ottoman potentates 
groundbreaking 13 One way to call 14 Poets 21 Receiver 
accessory, slangily 
24 literally, "for this" 


47 Texas border 56 "Come Back, city little Sheba" wife 
49 Justice replaced 57 Big-eyed by Ginsburg 
60 _ Hay, Israeli 51 Buttinskies memorial 
53 lost cause 62 Coll. conferrals 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1 ·900-420-5656 (95e per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1 ·888-7 ·ACROSS. 
PUZZie by Rich Notrla 
28 Court figures 29 late 31 Bacchanal 35 Kind of roll or 
bar 36 Repentant 37 No longer 
sponsored 38 Bugs 41 Pipe sullier 42 Omelet site 46 Deluge 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

No-tre Dan,,e 
Cleveland S-ta-te 
Prank aok sbadfum 
Birthday Baby: You have a charismatic appeal that will bring you popularity throughout your life. Yo!-1 are engaging, happy-go-;~cky and eager to be involved in anythmg that appears to be exciting, adventuresome and enjoyable. 
(Need advice? dleck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) C2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
Big Bad Belles 
The Saint Mary's tennis team blasted the competition in Arizona, winning four matches. 
page 20 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER 
Wednesday, March 21, 2001 


University suspends Jones for spring practice 

. Fisher will also miss spring work­outs due to injury 
By TIM CASEY Assistant Sports Editor 

Julius Jones will not partic­ipate in spring practice after he recently violated University rules. The sophomore tailback is suspended for the 15 practices but will be able to return in the fall. 
Jones led the Irish with 657 rushing yards, 1.169 all-purpose yards and 
1999 and had been playing through the pain ever since. 
Fisher, the Irish 's second lead­ing rusher in 2000. is currently working out with the team but cannot lift weights with his left shoulder. 
"I'm basically doing every­thing that the team is doing except I won't be participating in contact drills," Fisher said. "They say rehab usually takes about six months but right now I'm way ahead of that. In my mind I feel good enough to play in the spring. But they (the coaches and trainers) don't want to risk it." 
With Jones 
seven rush­and Fisher out,
"It's tough but [Jones]
ing touch­junior Terrance 
understands the conse­
downs last Howard will season. quences ifhe does some­likely receive 
"It's tough the bulk of car­
thing that's against 
but he ries this spring.
school rules. ,,

understands Howard ranked the conse-third on the quences if he Tony Fisher team in rushing does some­yards last sea­
Running back

thing that's son. Freshman 
against school rules," junior tailback Tony Fisher said on Tuesday. "I hope he prepares and stays focused." 
Fisher also must heed his own advice. He underwent left shoul­der surgery on Jan. 12 and will miss spring practice. He suf­fered the injury in the spring of 
Garron Bib-le and sophomore Chris Yura are also expected to see time at tail­back when practice starts on March 27. 
"(Terrance) will already be a step ahead of me and Julius," Fisher said. "He'II have to take his opportunity and try to run with it." 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish improve to 14-3 by beating Miami, West Virginia 
The Irish swept the doubles has really been stepping it up at 
By STEVE KEPPEL against Miami with solid victories the No. 3 spot and Nina Vaughan 
Sports Writer from Michelle Dasso/Becky at three has played very well for 
Varnum. Katie Cunha/Kim Guy us." 
Like many Notre Dame stu­and Lindsey Green/Nina Vaughan Later that afternoon the Irish dents, the women's tennis team who all won decisively. showed that they are still the traveled to Florida for spring The Irish then went on to win team to beat in the Big East by break. But instead of partying five singles matches in straight shutting out the Mountaineers and laying out on the beach, the sets as Lindsay Green clinched without two of their top players. seventh-ranked Irish were busy the win with a victory over Dasso and Guy both rested improving their Miami's Katie because of nagging injuries. record to 14-3 Bogolomova Once again the Irish won the
''Becky Varnum has been 

by defeating 6-1, 6-2. The doubles point in easy fashion and Miami and West playing better and match was then swept the singles matches. Virginia. better as the spring highlighted Cunha and freshman Alicia Salas On Saturday by the play of showed a little of what is to come
has gone along ...

the Irish beat the Varnum, in the future as they filled in quite 35th-ranked 99th-ranked nicely, winning in straight sets. Hurricanes 6-1 Jay Louderback N i n a "Michelle [Dasso] hurt her back and then Vaughan and before the Michigan match and
Tennis coach 

blanked \Vest All-Ame'rican Kimberly [Guy] had a little arm Virginia 7 -0 later Michelle trouble so it gave us a chance to that afternoon. Dasso who won in doubles and let them rest a little," said 
"The best match we played was singles despite battling an aching Louderback. Miami, we went 1-1 with them back. "Katie Cunha stepped in and last year and this was our first "Everyone played well," said played very well and Alicia Salas outdoor match and we played Louderback. "Becky Varnum has did also." really well," said head coach Jay been playing better and better as 
see TENNIS/pagel8

Louderback. the spring has gone along. She 
r: 
' ) I 
' ( Baseball Men's Lacrosse 
'I 
vs. Cleveland State at. Hofstra
:~ ~ SPORTS 
Softball 

1 / I Today, 4:05 p.m. Saturday, 1 p.m. '? vs. Western Michigan 
Tuesday, 4 p.m.

l / < :I I ATA at Kentucky vs. Utah 
•5 ~ { ~ Saturday, noon . Saturday, TBA
GLANCE •
' ) \ 
' 

.~ 


_M_E_N_U sm_al_lM_e_diu_m_La_r_e--Toppings 

CRUST STYLES 
• Classic Crust • Pan Style • Crispy Thin 
PIZZA CRUST TOPPERS 
• Parmesan Cheese • Garlic Butter Crust 
• Roma Seasoned Crust (Special Blend of Crunchy Italian Seasonings) 
SIDES 
• Garlic Butter Dipping Sauce • Banana Peppers • Ranch Dipping Sauce
*1st Side With Pizza Free. Additional Sides 25<t Each 
Minimum Delivery Order $7.00. Gratuities Not Included. Free Delivery available to campus. Prices are subject to change. 

54533 Terrace Ln. 
(East of Ironwood) 
243-1111 

Serving Notre Dame & Bethel College 
52750 IN 933 

(Formerly U.S. 31/33 -N. of Cleveland Rd.) 
Specialty Pizzas 
Deluxe • All Meat 
• Chicken Club • Hawaiian • White Cheezy 
• Garden Pizza 

Ask About Our Other Menu Items! 
Subs $4.69 
• 
Italian Sub • Ham & Cheese Sub 

• 
Steak & Cheese Sub • Veggie Sub 




0"8'\ •Chicken Club Sub 'l!hee~!f:B,-eBd $3.49 
Fresh-Baked Bread Strips with 3 Kinds of Cheeses &Garlic Butter, Topped with Parmesan & Roma Seasoning. Served with a Side of Pizza Sauce & Ranch Dipping Sauce 
Marco's Salad $1.99 

Crisp Lettuce, Pepperoni, Cheese, Tomatoes, Banana Peppers, Black Olives, Feta Cheese &Italian Dressing 

Pizza $5,45  $5,45  $7,95 $10.45  Pepperoni  Mushrooms  
Add'I Toppings  $ •75  $ 1.00  $ 1.00  $ Ham1•5O Italian Sausage  Green Peppers Fresh Onions  
~~~~!  $9145  $1Q,45 s11.95 $16.45  Ground Beel  Bacon  
Black Olives  Seasoned Chicken  
DOUBLES  Pineapple  Banana Peppers  
2nd Pizza of equal or lesser size and toppings only •..  $4,99  $5,99  $5,99  $7,99  Anchovies Fresh Tomatoes  Feta Cheese  

©2001 Marco's, Inc. 1936-201 






