
--· -----------------------------------------------------------------. 
Aerosmith's at it again 
Are parents the cure to school violence? 
According to Observer columnist Charles Rice, 
After decades ofrock. Aerosmith continues to 
Tuesday
thrill fans. Find out ifit's worth it to Just 
parents are the strongest link to change. 
viewpoint . page 13
Press Play. 
MARCH 20, 
scene . page 15 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO.105 HTTP:!/OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Suspected fire forces evacuation, no residents hurt 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 
A suspected fire forced the evacuation of nearly 150 Holy Cross llall residents Monday evBning after a resident reported seeing smoke in a basement shower stall. 
A blown fan motor in a section of duct work filled the south basement bathroom with smoke, said Notre Dame fire chief John Antonucci. Notre Dame Fire Department was the first to respond to the call at approximate­ly 9:10 Monday evening and found hazy smoke in the bathroom but no names upon respond­ing, members of the battalion said. 
Seven fire trucks and one ambulance responded to the call. including members of the South Bend Fire Department. 
"[The smokeJ pretty much contained itself by the time we got here," said South Bend Fire Department battalion chief Chico Rodriguez. "It was just a smoke scare." 
Holv Cross resident Jame Roark was shower­ing in the south basement bathroom when she heard the fan backfire and saw the room fill with smoke. 
''I was washing my hair. and I heard a zap noise," Hoark said. 
"The room was filled with smoke. and it was becoming almost like a haze. I couldn't see the rest of the bathroom." 
Roark escaped unharmed, and notified neighbors on the basement t1oor of the dorm to contact Saint Mary's security. No residents were injured, but one security officer was treated for smoke inhalation, according to Holy Cross hall director Laura Sobiek. 
Residents were allowed back in the building at 9:55 p.m., and Saint Mary's physical plant personnel were examining the fan motor after the fire battalions left campus. 
HEADING TO THE ROCKIES 


NAOMI CORDELUThe Observer A small electrical fire in Holy Cross Hall forced the evacuation of 150 residents and resulted in one minor injury. 
New center promises more social space 
the first and third floors of the 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
building, and a considerably
News Writer 
larger amount of space than in 
the previous offices. 
"We never thought it would
The new Coleman-Morse 
turn out as beautiful as it has.

Center's architecture and fea­
Campus Ministry went from

tures dazzled those who walked 
5,000 square feet of office space

into the building on its first day 
to 35,000 square feet," said

of service to students Monday. 
Father Richard Warner, director 

The building is more than an 
of Campus Ministry. 

architectural sight, however, 
The center has united Campus

bringing together three of the 
Ministry, which was previously

most frequently used student 
housed in the Hesburgh Llbrary 

services on campus: Academic 
and the basement of Badin Hall.

Services for Student Athletes, 
"Before, retreats were run out

Campus Ministry and First Year 
of the library office. We were

of Studies. 
disconnected from the Badin
In addition to the offices them­
office and so many people there

selves, there is study and social 
were involved in the retreats,"

space available to students. A 
said director of retreats Father

large lounge on the first floor, 
John Herman. 

named in honor of Dorene and 
Those going on retreats will

Jerry Hammes who recently 
now pick up paperwork and

donated $1 million for a Campus 
depart for the retreat from the

Ministry endowment, has space 
same location on the first floor of 

for studying or relaxing and is 
the center. The new retreat

open 21 hours a day, closing 
office also provides more office

every morning at 4 am for clean­
space for those leading retreats. 

ing and re-open at 7 a.rn. The 
"A lot of the people involved

lounge is furnished with tables 
with the retreat are rectors and

and chairs for studying, couches 
we didn't have a place to work

and a big screen TV for those 
[from]. Here, we can have meet­

seeking a break from their work. 
ings for retreats and can orga­

free popcorn and soda provided 
nize them. {t will do a lot to help

by Campus Ministry and two 
us improve our current pro­

fireplaces. On Thursday. Friday 
grams and start new ones,"

and Saturday nights, there will 
Herman said. 

be food service available in the 
A new Campus Ministry orga­

lounge from 8 p.m until 3 a.m. 
nization, PLAN, also has space
'Tm thinking about making it 
on the first 11oor. Students in

my new study space," said 
PLAN will serve as hosts to stu­

sophomore David Choe. "I used 
dents from 6 p.m. until midnight

to study at Lafortune, but every­
each night. restocking the

body goes there. This is open 24 
lounge refreshments and also

hours and it's more relaxed. We 
providing information about

need more 24-hour space for 
Campus Ministry programs. 

hanging out or doing home­work." Campus Ministry has offices on see COLEMAN-MORSE/page 4 
page 2 The Observer-. INSIDE Tuesday, March 20, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 

For Jake's sake 
There are some days when I think that desplte having lived 21 years, I still don't understand the world at all. A conversation with my mother this weekend made Sunday one of those days. 
On Saturday. March 17, Jake Siniawski passed away from complications of a lifelong battle with Fanconi Anemia. He was just 10 years old. 

Jake was a fifth grader who attended school with two of my younger broth­ers and belonged to my parish in Cincinnati, Ohio. Though Jake did not know me, it was impossible for me not to know him in the small community of Saint Bernard, Taylor Creek. Jake's picture was printed on stickers we wore at parish festivals to raise awareness. He appeared on posters under the colorful words "For Jake's Sake," advertising a bone marrow drive to try to find a match for Jake and many others nationally in need of marrow transplants. Throughout his short life, Jake became an advocate for the local blood bank and the Make A Wish Foundation. and he appeared on television and the radio to educate the public about Fanconi Anemia and to raise money for research. 
Jake's family kept our parish informed about how Jake was doing through a Web site that they updated daily with journal entries. When I returned home last Sunday for spring break, my mother showed me one such entry. "The pneumonia is worse. There is nothing more we can do," wrote Jake's mother. "Jake would rather be at home. So, I signed the DNK tonight and brought Jake home." 
Two days ago, upon hearing of Jake's death, I logged onto Jake's site and clicked on the journal entries link. The page loaded. and music began playing in the background. It was "On Eagle's Wings." All the journal said was, "The angels came for Jake this morning at 7:30. I know he is in Heaven. God be with him." 
As I read over the entries detailing the last week of Jake's life, the faith and bravery of this family touched my heart. On March 9. the day Jake's mother signed the DNR, she recalls telling him by name the persons who will meet him at the gates of heaven. Three days later, the journal describes the comfort ·'" Jake drew from an Anointing of the Sick cer-'" emony. On the 13, it excitedly details the special honor Jake was granted when the Archbishop of Cincinnati permitted our parish priest to perform a Confirmation cere­mony in his home. The entry goes on to explain that the sacrament is a rite of pas­sage usually reserved for seventh or eighth graders and describes the occasion as "a wonderful event in Jake's life." 
I cannot begin to understand from where this family has drawn such strength and trusting acceptance, but I found their convic­tion that Jake has been called home to be a comfort in the face of such sad news. This family faced the inevitable with inspiring courage and grace. I can only hope to some day live up to the example they set for Jake's sake. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Kiflin Turner Sam Derheimer Jason McFarley Chris Scocc Finn Pressly Graphics 
Sports Kacie McKcnna Lauren Conti Production Bryan Cronk Rachael Protzman 
Viewpoint Lab Tech Kurt Bogaard Naomi Cordell 
The Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday rxccpt during exam and vacation periods. ThC' Obsctvcr is a member of the Associated PrC"ss. AH reproduction right~ are u:servcd. 


QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"We just keep ·'This represents an "We weren't the "Hopefully, he'll get 
asking why and we important social ringleaders of the into the draft. We 're 
know we're never justice action on reading." tired ofseeing Troy 
going to get the behalfofthe Katie Poynter, CARE mem­Murphy." 
answer. .. University. ,, ber, on action taken against Pitt basketball coach Ben 
Josh Nemeth on his sister Jen­Brian O'Donoghue, student the group for a Feb. 19 per­Howland after the Panther's 
ny, a Holy Cross student who body president, on Notre fomance of ''The Vagina 66-54 Big East Tournament 
died of meningitis March 5. Dame's joining the WRC. win over the Irish March 8.
Monologues." 

Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Brown U. group to continue action against paper 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. following the coalition's action on
"Our action was to remove The
A coalition of student groups that Friday.
Herald from on-campus
stole nearly 4,000 copies of The Over the weekend the Boston Brown Daily Herald Friday said it locations ofdistribution. We Globe, the Providence Journal and plans to continue to take action the Associated Press ran stories on
will continue to be active until 
against The Herald until the newspa­the theft. Representatives from The
the paper meets our demands. " Herald and the coalition also
per meets ils demands, according to a press release the group issued appeared on NBC's "Today" show Saturday. Sunday morning.
press release 

"Our action was to remove The Already the controversy has
Brown University student coalition
Herald from on-campus locations of sparked the creation of at least one distribution," the release said. "We rival campus group, Students of will continue to be active until the remove the word "Brown" from its Color Against Censorship (SCAC). paper meets our demands." name, and that it cease distributing "SCAC was formed to provide a 
The coalition had demanded The copies on campus. voice for minority students who arc Herald donate the $725 cost of a The Herald declined to honor any disenchanted with the coalition's full-page advertisement to the Third of the group's demands. actions," the group said in a state­World community and give the coali­The coalition's dispute with The ment Sunday night. "The group is tion a free l'ull-page ad. Herald grew into a massive campus growing very rapidly, as dozens of 
On Saturday the coalition added controversy and garnered national students have already expressed two new demands: that The Herald media attention over the weekend their support." 
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA 
Publisher eyes Earnhardt photos 
GAJNESVILLE, Fla. 
Despite a settlement between the Orlando Sentinel and the family of Dale Earnhardt, the Alligator's publisher, Campus Communications Inc. will continue il'> court fight against seali.ng the racing legend's autopsy photos. Teresa Earnhardt, widow of the NASCAR legend, had sued the Volusia County Medical Examiner to block lhe release of records concerning her late husband to keep 
.. media from obtaining copies. The Sentinel wanted a med­ical expert to examine the photos as part of a NASCAR safety story. Lawyers for Earnhardt and the newspaper negotiated for 18 hours before reaching a compromise Friday. The compromise allows a court-appointed media­tor to choose an expert to view the photos. Sentinel repre­sentatives will be allowed to ask the expert three ques­tions about the head injuries and cause of death. The photos then will be sealed. Barbara Petersen, executive director of the First Amendment Foundation in Tallahassee, said the decision sets a bad precedent for those seeking certain government documents. 
UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI 

Women take stand on new flag issue 
OXFORD, Miss. 
Women from the University of Mississippi and the Oxford/Lafayette community are assembling to raise sup­port for the new state flag. The -as of' yet unnamPd ­group of women consists of faculty members, administra­tors and other women from the university community and is leading a push among women in the area to vote against the old flag. which features the "stars and bars" in the upper left corner. Gloria Kellum. vice chancellor for university relations, said the group first formed as many people began to talk and ask if there was some­thing that they as individuals could do. "I think the mes­sage is that the women in the Oxford-Lafayette­University community hope that they can increase the awareness of women that this vote can have a huge influence," Kellum said. "Because women make up 52° percent of the voting population in Mississippi they can make a major impact in this vote." She also said women in the group are committed to going out as individuals and sharing their message. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Rend Forecast 
AccuWeathcr"' forecast for daytime conditions and high tempemtures 
The AccuWeather"' forecast tor noon, Tuesday, March 20. 

H L 
Wednesday ~ 49 35 Thursday ~ 51 33 Friday ~ 48 29
''.. '' 
.........
Q 
COLD WARM
C 2001 Acc:u-Weather, lnc.

Saturday ·.• .·,• :.· 43 28 
----­
·:· •:· 
@uu(Q DQDDDCJ

Q Hlgtl I-ow Showera R ¦ lf'I T-lltorm• Flurri•• Snow loe Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via MBQClatsdPrsss
Sunday •:~:=!•,::=· 45 29 
Atlanta 39 36 Las Vegas 80 57 Portland 57 38 
Baltimore 49 37 Memphis 53 40 Sacramento 77 52 
Boston 37 30 Milwaukee 47 34 St. LOUIS 56 38~~;;;,\~-~9. ~ Q ~ ~ u Chicago 50 35 New York 45 35 Tampa 70 53 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 45 Philadelph,a 38 Wilmington 50 
Via ~lattld PffNIS G,aphicsNet 
HouS1on 68 51 38 

Tuesday, March 20, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


International week events begin today 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
Multicultural programs and activities will be part of the third annual International Week. which kicks off today at Notre Dame. 
Sponsored by the University's department of International Student Services and Activities in conjunction with campus multicultural clubs, the events will last through SalUrday. 
"The purpose of the week is to showcase the cultures, tra­ditions and talents of interna­tional students," said Maureen Fitzgibbon, director of the ISSA. 
Today organizers are spon­soring a trivia contest begin­ning at noon in the Lafortune Student Center. Also, two showings of the Japanese mm "Maborosi" are scheduled for 7 and 9 p.m. in Montgomery Theatre . 
On Wednesday, another film. "Bulgarian Animation," will show at 2 p.m. in the the­atre. 
On Thursday, the International Women's Club will give book readings from 3:30 to 5 p.m. in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
The international village will be the highlight of events Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on the first and second floors of Lafortune. The film festival continues Friday with "Waking Ned Devine" and "Leningrad Cowboys Go America" showing in Montgomery at 6 and 8 p.m., respectively. 
An international sports tour­nament from 7 to 10 p.m. in Holf's Sports Hecreation Center wraps up 1-'riday's events. 
The international village continues from 9 a.m. to 3 
p.m. on Saturday in LaFortune. Then, a culture fest at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium will feature dances, poetry, songs and other enrichment activities. 
All programs are free and open to Lhe public. 
Fitzgibbon said she hopes to see increased participation in this year's International Week. 
"We're hoping that the Notre Dame community as well as the larger community will take part in it," she said. 



SATs face dismissal at colleges 
. ND and SMC will keep admissions test 
By NICK SWEEDO 
News Writer 
Richard Atkinson, president of the University of California school system. recently issued a propos­al that the school drop the Scholastic Aptitude Test from its list of admissions requirements. This move by the country's largest university system could potentially st.a.rt a ripple effect at other universities and signal the death knell of the SAT. 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, however, have no plans at this time to stop using the SAT in the admissions process. 
'This kind of change will not happen overnight,"said Mary Pat Nolan, admissions director at Saint Mary's. "We would have to do research before any change is made." 
Rita Scheidler, Notre Dame's admissions counselor in charge of the California region. said the University does not intend to fol­low the University of California's lead anytime soon. 
"It [the SAT] is one way that we can gauge students across the nation against each other," Scheidler said. 
Notre Dame admissions officers do take into account the flaws that the SAT has, and the test is only one of six criteria that the officials look at, Scheidler said. 
Scheidler explained that each spend hundreds of dollars to take student is judged on three acade­SAT courses like our own {or mic criteria -class rank, SAT thousands to get private tutor­and high school transcript -ing]." with the transcript given greatest Ironically. Katzman's test-prep weight. The admissions office company makes money helping also looks at three non-academic students prepare for the SAT. criteria -teacher evaluations, Erik Sorensen, assistant direc­essays and extracurricular activi• tor of the Princeton Review ties and community involvement. Midwest Branch, would like to 
"With all of those elements, we see college admission offices 
have a good  place  more  
feel for which stu• dents will be most  "This kind ofchange will not happen overnight. We would do research before  emphasis on the SAT II tests, which, according to Sorensen, are  
successful at Notre  any change is made."  more representative  
Dame,"  of what students  
Scheidler  Mary Pat Nolan  are learning in  
said.  Director of admission at SMC  the  classroom.  

L i k e N o t r e Dame, Saint Mary's officials use the SAT as a determinant for admission but not as the most important criterion. 
"The SAT does give a general comparison of students across the nation, but the admission decision is not solely made on test scores,"Nolan said. "We firmly believe that the best indicator of performance at Saint Mary's is high school courses taken and the difficulty ofthose courses. 
Critics of the SAT contend that it favors wealthier students. 
"With the end of affirmative action in California and several other states," said John Katzman, founder and CEO of the Princeton Review, "these [disadvantaged] students have been at the wrong end of an arms race, competing with wealthier students who 
He thinks that Atkinson's pro­posal will start a chain reaction. 
"The University of California school system is the largest in the country," Atkinson said. "They have always been trendsettcrs. Other schools will now start to reconsider." 
Seppy Basili, the vice president of another test-prep company, Kaplan Inc., disagrees. 
"I think that Atkinson's propos­al will go through. Until someone makes a better test, though, there will be no ripple effect. The combination of the SAT and a high school transcript is still the best predictor of college grades." 
The California Board of Regents must first approve Atkinson's proposal before it takes effect. The earliest the change would be implemented is the fall of 2003. 

ND band appears on "Live with Regis and Kelly" show 
members of the band and cheerlead­Inside the studio, one of Regis By ERIN PIROUTEK ing squad made an unexpected Philbin's staff members noticed sever­Senior SraffWriter appearance on the television program al students in the group were wearing 
"Live with Regis and Kelly." Notre Dame band apparel. During one 
While in New York supporting the Several band members decided to of the commercial breaks, Philbin Notre Dame men's basketball team at attend the taping of the program on talked with the group. the Big East Tournament, several March 7. After a long wait in line, they "I didn't expect Regis to be so much 
received standby tickets. like he is when you see him tin public," 
..------------------------------------• 1said sophomore
Megan Sullivan."He
g 

CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY LENTEN LECTURE SERIES 


Celebrating ,. The Dying and Rising of Christ 
Thursday, March 22 Anne Koester 
Signs of Salvation: Symbols of the Paschal Triduum 
Thursday, March 29 Michael Joncas 
Sounds of Salvation: The Paschal Mystery in Music 

Thursday, April 5 Nathan Mitchell 
Seeing Salvation: Story, Rite, and Word in the Easter Triduum 


All at 12:05 p.m. -12:55 p.m. STAPLETON LOUNGE, LE l\i1ANS HALL 
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC INFORMATION: (219) 284-4636 E-MAIL: mlukasze@saintmarys.edu 
SaintMJsColleg~ 
NOTRE DAME• INDJANA 

was the same way off-camera with his 
staff and  with  the  
audience."  
Philbin  told  the  

group, "We're going 

to do our best to get you guys on TV," said senior Kathleen Eichman. 
At the end of the show, the band members were invited on the stage with Philbin and co-host Kelly Ripa. Philbin led the group in a "Go Irish" cheer and wished them good luck at the basketball game. 
The next day, several cheerleaders, band members and leprechaun Mike Brown tried to get tickets for the show. 
Although they didn't get tickets to the taping, Philbin brought them onto the stage at the end of the program to cheer for Notre Dame. 
Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin Auditorium Sunday, April 1 • ,7:30 p.m. 
Please join us in support of the Food Bank of Northern Indiana by bringing a donation of canned food to the performance. There will be collection baskets at the entrances. 






I'"8M-;)
c__~ THE ARTS ~NOTREDAME, IN 
For ticket information contact the 284 4626 
Saint Mary's Box Office at ­
page 4 The Obsm,er . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 20, 2001 
Cole01an­

Morse 
continued from page I 
lounge refreshments and also providing information about Campus Ministry programs. 
The Center for Social Concerns will operate a satel­lite office out of the first floor. 
Academic Services for Student Athletes has also taken office on the first floor and has larger facilities than their previous space in Brownson Hall. 
"This is really meant to be a student-centered building," said Kate Halischak, director of Academic Services for Student Athletes. "For the first time, we have a dedicated tutoring space within the oflice complex, which makes us able to schedule tutoring more effi­ciently." 
The first floor contains a small chapel named Notre Dame Our Mother where a variety of masses will be held. including Hejoice! and 
tains two 

masses for "We are delighted to 
centers. The

the retreat have more inviting Thomas A .. 
team. On 

facilities and a more Coleman
Fridays, there 
Fam i I y

will be mass comfortable environment 
Center for

and reconcili­for everyone." Campus
ation in the 
Ministry
chapel. Thero 
memorial­

is a cross-cul­Kevin Rooney 
izes the fam­

tural ministry assistant dean, First Year Studies 
ily of
that will have permanent cultural displays and also has a small prayer room that is open to all. but is especially targeted for Muslims to use during their Friday prayer. 
First Year of Studies now occupies the second floor of the center after 31 years in Brownson Hall. 
"Instead of being in a non­descript building overshad­owed by the Dome and Basilica. we are now out on South Quad. We are going to be a lot more visible," said Kevin Rooney, assistant dean of First Year of Studies. 
In addition to a more prefer­able location, the new office provides more·space for acad­emic advisors and peer men­tors and brings the office clos­er to the Learning Resource Center, a place where fresh­men can get assistance in their classes. 
"Freshmen can walk right out the door and sign up for tutoring," said Rooney. 
Another new feature is that some first year classes will now be taught outside First more inviting facilities and a more comfortable environment for everyone," Uooney said. 
The University Writing Center moved from the base­ment of DeBartolo Hall to the second floor of the center. 
Campus Ministry's expanded space will allow it to provide more resources to students. There is a new catechist resource room designed to aid students who teach religious education in local parishes. A new choir library contains 
100.000 sheets of music used by the various choirs and new choir rooms were also built. 
"The rooms arc primarily for our eight different choral groups who were practicing for a long time in the Earth Science building. We also want to make the rooms available to student groups who want to use it. We want to make everything available to all the 
people  we  serve,"  Warner  
said.  
The  $14  million, 66,670  

square foot building was underwritten by gifts from two alumni. Although commonly referred to as the Coleman­Morse Center, the building actually con­
Thomas Coleman, a 1956 graduate and member of the Board of Trustees until his death last year. Coleman also served for 32 years on the Mendoza College of Business advisory council and provided funding for the renovation of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart in 1990. The James and Leah Rae Morse Center for Academic Services was funded by a gift from James Morse, a 1957 graduate of the University and captain of the 1956 football team, and his wife. Morse was the voice of Notre Dame football on ABC in the 1960s and has served on the College of Arts and Letters advisory council since 1981. 
"It really is a whole new era in student services," Warner said. 



travel
freer:~0o~'l;er 
yearolds 

Teachers visit campus as students 
Special to The Observer 
Teachers from South Bend and Mishawaka public and pri­vate elementary. middle and high schools will become stu­dents themselves in the coming months as they join the Spring 2001 seminar series Teachers as Scholars at the University of Notre Dame. 
Teachers as Scholars brings kindergarten-through-12th ­grade teachers into the univer­sity classroom and into semi­nars whose engaging scholarly content returns participants to the role of learner. The pro­gram deliberately steps away from the teacher-training focus on teaching tools, and aims, instead, to refresh each teacher's love of learning. 
The spring Teachers as Scholars series begins Tuesday, March 20 with "The Politics and Economics of Income and Wealth Inequality," led by Teresa Ghilarducci, associate professor of economics. The seminar continues March 27. 
Six two-day seminars are planned through May. Each seminar is led by a Notre Dame professor, held during the reg­ular school day, and designed for lively scholarly discussion. Participating teachers are encouraged to select a seminar on the basis of their interests, regardless of the grade level they teach or their area of con­tent expertise. Other spring seminar topics are: 
. 
"The Abundant Love of Romance Comedies," with William Krier, associate profes­sor of English, March 21 and 28. 

. 
''Women as Citizens in American Politics," with Christina Wolbrecht. Packey Dee Assistant Professor of Government and International Studies, April 24 and May 1. 

. 
"Teaching the Humanities in the Art Museum," with Diana 


Matthias and Shannon Masterson, professional spe­cialists with the Snite Museum of Art, April 25 and May 2. 
. 
"The History of American Documentary Filmmaking." with Jill Godmilow, professor of Film. Television and Theatre. May 8 and 15. 

. 
"Inequality in Latin America," with Victoria Sanford and Greg Downey, assistant professors of anthro­pology, May 9 and May 16. 


The program is held in con­junction with the South Bend Community School Corp., School City of Mishawaka, and the Diocese of Fort Wayne/South Bend schools. Funding is provided by a grant from the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation; Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters and Nanovic Institute for European Studies, and by the Muessel ­Ellison Memorial Trust Foundation. 

You're reading the 2001 Associated Collegiate Press National Newspaper of the Year. 


Ain-A 

FOR INFORMATION, CONTACT: Chandra J. Johnson,

That 

Assistant to the President E-mail: johnson.101@nd.edu Phone: (219) 631-3748

Good 

SPONSORS INCLUDE: Department of African and African American Studies, Campus Ministry, Multicultural 

News! 

Student Programs and Services, Department of Music, Office of the President, Student Activities, Multicultural Affairs­
The 

Saint Mary's College, First A.M.E. University Zion Church, Grace A.M.E. Zion Church of Notre Dame Welcomes 
Tuesday, March 20, 2001 
8:00 p.m. 
Washington Hall 
free Admission 
Year of Studies offices in five small classrooms. Currently, First Year of Studies Dean Eileen Kolman teaches her math class in the building. but next year the rooms have a full schedule of first year courses. In the evening, these rooms will be used f'or tutoring and collaborative workshops by the Learning Bcsource Center. 
"We arc delighted to have 


>free of hassles >free of rip offs >free for you with 1 0 friends! 
... Get 10 friends to go and you'll go free! 
European Discovery from $975 14 days including Amsterdam, Paris, and Rome 


ri,m,fijlTravel~ 
www.counciltravel.com 
1-800-2COUNCIL 

Experience Contiki with a group of friends booked on the same trip at the same lime and the 11th person travels free or everyone in your group gets 10% off. Prices are land only and do not include airfare. 





ATION 
Tuesday, March 20, 2001 COMPILED PROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Rallies protest Basque attacks: 
Thousands ol' Spaniards around the country observed a minute of silence Monday to protest the latiist killing blamed on the armed Basque sPparatist group ETA. In Madrid, lawmakers gathered outside Parliament to condemn Saturday night's car bomb blast that killed a policeman in the Catalan town of Roses. A larg­or rally was set for the evening in Madrid. 
Cuba produces own Bacardi rum: 
Launching a new duel over trademark rights, President Fidel Castro said Cuba will begin producing its own Bacardi rum. using the name made famous by a Cuban family in exile. Bacardi rum "is ours and is better than what they produced," Castro said Saturday in a speech broadcast on state television late Sunday. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Passenger breaks agent's neck: 
Witnesses saw an airline ticket agent's feet flying when a frustrated passenger hurled him to the ground, breaking his neck, a prosecutor told jurors Monday. The passen­ger. John Davis, 29, of Fredericksburg, Va.. is charged with aggravated assault and could face up to 10 years in prison if con­victed. The Continental Airlines ticket agent, Anthony Sottile, landed on his head and has lost most of the mobility in his neck. 
Glitch blocks EarthLink e-mail: 
Hundreds of thousands of e-mails sent by EarthLink Inc. customers to America Online accounts were rejected and lost over a peri­od spanning at least 10 days, EarthLink said Monday. An AOL spokesman said software designed to restrict junk e-mail, or spam. was to blame. After conferring Monday, the companies said the problem had been resolved. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Judge withdraws from trial: A third Lake Superior Court judge has recused him­self from presiding over the murder trial of a man accused of plotting to kill several of the trial's key witnesses and the original judge. Walter "Billy" Richeson is accused of murder­ing a Crown Point man and of plotting to kill several key witnesses in his trial for that crime. Police say Richeson also plotted to kill the original judge and deputy prosecutor assigned to the case. Judge Thomas Stefaniak has now decided not to take the Richeson case. 
Market Watch 3/19 

Dow 9,959.11 +135.70
/{u;) 

Composite Same: 
. 211 AMEX: 881.54 
NASDAQ: l,95l.18 
NYSE: 596.17 
S&P 500: 1,170.81 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.92 -0.82 27.06 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +4.38 +0.87 20.81 NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ) +5.26 +2.16 43.26 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +9.80 +1.38 15.44 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)+4.80 +0.87 19.06 
MACEDONIA 
Albanian rebels bombard town 
Associated Press 

TETOVO 
Heavy weaponry echoed eerily through deserted streets as Macedonia's sec­ond-largest city -besieged by ethnic Albanian rebels fighting for greater rights -fell under a government­imposed curfew and a new sense of dread. 
Macedonian forces con­tinued the bombardment throughout the night and into a sixth straight day Monday, apparently con­centrating on areas north of the city. As curfew hours ended, some city buses and cars returned to the streets but most stores remained shut. 
On Sunday night, only a handful of people and even fewer cars crept through the streets. But the overnight curfew ordered by Prime Minister Ljubco Georgievski, along with restrictions on movements in the region. did nothing to stop the booming volley of fire between government forces and the insurgents. 
Macedonian gunners unleashed sustained artillery and mortar strikes on the hillsides above Tetovo. lobbing large-cal­iber mortars at the insur­gents nestled strategically in the scrubby woods. 
"Macedonia will win this battle without giving up a single foot of our territory. And after the victQfY, Macedonians and Albanians will continue to live together -as they must." Georgievski said in an address to a nation he said "is rapidly arming itself." 
Georgievski accused the meeting Monday in to avert all-out war. being treated as second­United States and Germany, Brussels. Belgium. "We are deeply convinced class citizens. whose troops patrol the promised to boost financial that the international com­But although the National neighboring Yugoslav and other aid to Macedonia munity now needs to unite Liberation Army urged province of Kosovo as part to help reduce tensions. efforts to establish stability ordinary citizens to take up of NATO's contingent there, The EU's security affairs and stop the terrorism," he arms and join their strug­of not doing enough to stop chief, Javier Solana, also said. gle, some ethnic Albanians the rebels. was heading to the Ethnic Albanians account remained suspicious of the 
"You cannot convince us Macedonian capital of for at least a quarter of rebels and their motives. that the chieftains of these Skopje later in the day. Macedonia's 2 million peo­"I don't know what to say gangs are unknown to your Russian Foreign Minister ple, and although ethnic about them. I do not know governments, nor can you Igo Ivanov arriving in relations in Macedonia even if we can trust them persuade us that they can­Belgrade on Sunday for have been relatively trouble or not," said Shefik Azizi, not be stopped," he said. talks with Macedonian and free, substantial numbers 25, after guiding a group of 
EU foreign ministers Yugoslav leaders on ways of the minority feel they are fellow ethnic Albanians. 

UNITED KINGDOM 
Officials: vaccination not an option 
Associated rress 
LONDON 

Farmers opposed to killing appar­
ently healthy animals to stop the 
spread of foot-and-mouth disease 
•put their case to Britain's chief vet­erinarian Monday, while officials rejected mass vaccination as an alternative. 
The number of confirmed cases rose to 326 on Monday, with the three latest cases all found i-n Cumbria, the northeastern English county where chief veterinarian Jim Scudamore was meeting farmers. 
"We have to keep the strategy under review," Scudamore said Monday in a radio interview with the British Broadcasting Corp. 
"If one is looking at a strategic plan in dealing with a disease, you have to look at all the weapons in the armory. But at the moment. the policy is identify, quarantine and destroy the herds and remove [the disease] by stamping out," he said. 
On Monday, European Union agri­culture ministers were to meet in Brussels, Belgium to discuss how to fight the disease. British Agriculture Minister Nick Brown was expected to explain his country's efforts. 
The British government announced last week that it planned to destroy all sheep and pigs within two miles of any confirmed out• break in Cumbria and southern Scotland. where many of the cases are concentrated. Animals that had passed through markets known to have the infection -and any ani• ma! they, in tum, had come in con­tact with -were also marked for destruction. 

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 20, 2001 


I/ 
I 
I 
! 
PER.FORMING ARTS CENTER * S01.Tnl BEND, IN 

Jackson, Simon earn 2nd inductions 
• Hall of Fame also honors Aerosmith, Queen, Steely Dan 
Associated Pres• 

NEWYOHK 
The hobbled Michael Jackson and a sweetly nostalgic Paul Simon made their second entrances into Lhe !tock and Holl Hall of Fame on Monday, joined by fellow inductees Aerosmith, Queen and Steely 
Dan. 

Fifties vocal group The Flamingos, soul singer Solomon 13urke and "La Bamba" singer Ritchie Valens were also hon­ored at a New York ceremony. 
Jackson, already in the Hall of' Fame with his brothers as a member of the Jackson 5, was honored for a solo career that includes "Thriller," which Sony estimates has 
Aerosmith.
sold more 'To me, the gift of 
called "the great­
than 4 7 mil­

music has been a great est rock band in
lion copies 

worldwide. blessing. from the time • American histo­ry" by Detroit
lie wore a I was a child." 
rocker Kid Rock,white suit with 
thanked theirgold buttons 
Michael Jackson families for sup­and leaned on singer porting a career 
a cane as he that includedaccepted his 

stardom, a steeptrophy. Jackson broke his foot fall and surprising resurrection. 
falling down the stairs while The band's new album debuted 
dancing recently, and, despite this week at No. 2 on the 
members of the audience 
Billboard charts, but they were plaading with him to sing, he honored for work that included didn't oblige. the prototype rock ballad, 
Ile was inducted by members "Dream On." 'N Sync, whose Lance Bass said "Mom, when I finally get this Jackson was always a man who inspired more questions than answers. 
"To me, the gift of music has been a great blessing. from the time I was a child," Jackson said. 
Simon is also a Hall of Fame member for his work with Art Garfunkel. His solo career has included hits such as "Still Crazy After All These Years" and "Graceland," both of which he sang Monday. 
Simon took 10 minutes to read a list of inspirations. from the first record he bought by the singer Johnnie Acc. to his bandleader· father and "those two girls in Covington, Ky." 
Of his former partner. Garfunkel. Simon said. "I regret the ending of our friendship, and I hope that one day before I die we will make peace with each other." 
After the audience applauded warmly, Simon deadpanned, "No rush." 
out of my system, I'll go to col­lege," said 49-year-old bass player Tom Hamilton. 
Lead singer Steven Tyler made a wry reference to the unflattering early comparison of Aerosmith to the Rolling Stones and his own resem­blance to their singer. 
"I wonder if this will put an end to, 'Hey, aren't you Mick Jagger?"' he said. 
Queen, whose lead singer Freddie Mercury died of AIDS in 1991, performed "We Will Rock You" as a trio and invited Foo Fighter Dave Grahl to sing au incendiary version of "Tie Your Mother Down." It opened a ceremony that started an hour late. 
Mercury's mother, Jer Bulsara, accepted her late son's trophy. 
Steely Dan was inducted by the tech no-artist Moby, who said, "They always seemed dif­ferent somehow. On the one hand, their music is warm and beautiful, but on the other hand it is so unsettling." 
The reclusive duo of Donald Fagen and Walter Becker, before performing "Black Friday," asked the audience if it had any questions, then ridiculed the only one shouted at them. Steely Dan's first album after nearly two decades off, "Two Against Nature," won the Grammy for album of the year last month. 
Soul king Burke, rising to the stage in a regal robe, said before performing, "To all of my 21 children, 58 grandchil­dren and seven great-granchil­dren, 'Let's get it on.'" 
Economists say Fed to cut interest rates soon 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The Federal Reserve is poised to cut interest rates for a third time this year in an effort to keep the record 
U.S. eco­
nomic expansion from end­ing. econ­omists say. 
Another big rate cut is 


needed Greenspan now, they believe, given the continued weak state of manufacturing and the cautious mood of consumers, whose spending accounts for two-thirds of all economic activity. Another reason: the huge sell-off that has been occur­ring on Wall Street, where the Dow Jones Industrial Average last week suffered its bigg~st weekly drop in 11 years. If paper losses make consumers feel a lot less wealthy and they stop spend­ing, that could put an end to the 10-year streak of uninter­rupted economic growth, analysts said. That's why many private economists predict the Fed's chief policy-making group, the Federal Open Market Committee, will aggressively cut short term interest rates 
at its meeting Tuesday. An afternoon announcement of the decision is expected. 
Economists. however. arc divided over how big the rate reduction will be: either a three-quarter point cut. something Wall Street investors are hoping for. or another half-point cut. With inflation remaining low, economists said the central bank has plenty of room to act. 
"The question we are all asking ourselves is does the economy drive the stock mar­ket or it is the other way around?" said Carl Tannenbaum, chief econo­mist for LaSalle Bank/ABN AMRO. 
"Our view is that both because of the skittishness of the stock market and also because of looming trouble overseas, especially Japan, our central bank has to be aware of the downside risks of this frnvironment," Tannenbaum said. "As a result, while a half-point cut might be enough for business activity, it won't be enough for market psychology, so three-quarters is the likely outcome." 
But others believe a half­point reduction is sufficient, given some positive signs for the economy, including a solid housing market, still­low unemployment, which stands at 4.2 percent, and modest job growth. 
Tuesday, March 20, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Senate debates campaign financing 
regulated "soft money" dona­last fall after spending a 
Associated Press 
ti on s that corporations, record $60 million of his own 
unions and wealthy individu­money. The third was Sen. WASHINGTON als give political parties. Robert Torricelli of New 
Senate supporters of limit­The millionaire amendment Jersev. ing political donations nar­was defeated only after Donrnnlci, the chief propo­rowly overcame their first Democrats, in intense discus­nent of the millionaire amend­challenge in their drive to sions on the Senate floor, per­ment, said a compromise he b r i n g suaded three of their mem­and Sen. Mike DeWine, R­about the bers who had voted in favor of Ohio, were considering would most sig­the amendment to change allow a tenfold increase in the nificant their votes. Democrats pub­$1,000 individual contribution change in licly promised they would limit for candidates running campaign work on a compromise ver­against opponents who use spending sion that would be taken up more than $1 million of their law in a Tuesday. own money. quarter­McCain said the original The larger issue was the ccntury. amendment, offered by Sen. future of campaign spending
T 11 e McCain Pete Domenici, R-N.M., would laws, with supporters of Senate by increase rather than decrease McCain-Feingold asserting a 51-48 vote Monday defeated campaign spending and was that the integrity of the a proposal to effectually elimi­"a meat-ax approach to a nation's election system was nate direct party contribution problem that requires a at stake. Opponents said First limits for candidates running scalpel." But he said he Amendment free speech against wealthy opponents thought a satisfactory com­rights were at risk. who pul at least $1 million of promise could be reached. "This is the beginning of two their own money into a cam­Two of the three who weeks of a wild ride," said paign. switched their votes -Sen. Sen. Mitch McConnell. R-Ky., 
The vote opened two weeks Jon Corzine of New Jersey the leading opponent of the of debate on legislation and Herb Kohl of Wisconsin various McCain-Feingold bills offered by Sens. John McCain, -are millionaires who that have failed to win Senate R-/\riz.. and Russell Feingold, financed their own cam­support over the past six D-Wis., that would ban loosely paigns. Corzine won his race years. 
It's a simple calculation: 
TIAA-CREF's low expenses mean more money 
Callus 
for afree





working for you. 
expense
calculator 

THE IMPACT Of EXPENSES ON Pi:RFORMANCE
The equation is easy. Lower expenses in managing a 
fund can equal better performance. 
$215,000 
Low-Cost A..ccounl 

How much 7 Just take a look at the chart. Then call us. $176,000
We'll send you a free, easy-to-use expense calculator so 
High-Cost Aceount 
you can see for yourself that no matter what your 
investment, you'll benefit from low expenses. And CREF 
variable annuity expenses range from 1ust 0.28% 
to 0.34%.1 

For decades, we've been committed to low expenses, 
superior customer service and strong performance. 
EXPENSES 2 

Add it all up and you'll find that selecting your Total accumulations after 20 years based on initial investment of$50,000 and hypothetical annual returns of 8%. Total returns 
retirement provider is an easy decision: TIAA-CREF. 
and principal value of investments will fluctuate. and yield may vary. The chart above is presented for illustrative purposes only 
and docs not reflect actual performance, or predict future 
results. of any TIAA-CREF account. or reflect taxes. 
1.800.842.2776 www.tiaa-cref.org 
Bush pulls Clinton's judicial nominations 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
President Bush on Monday officially dumped the last of President Clinton's leftover nom­inations, 
raising questions about the future of the first black appel­1ate judge in the cir­cuit with 


the most Bush minorities in the nation. 

But the president left the door open that Roger Gregory, who was the first black judge on the 
4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Va., when appoint­ed temporarily by Qinton, could get to keep his job. 
"Some of these individuals will be considered for positions in the Bush administration," White House spokesman Scott McClellan said. "No one should be considered ruled in or out at this point." 
Bush officially withdrew 62 executive and judicial nomina­tions made by Ointon in his l~t days, including Gregory. The 4th 
U.S. Circuit -comprised of Maryland, North Carolina. South Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia -includes more minorities than any other circuit in the nation. 
"President Clinton appointed a highly qualified. well-respected lawyer in Hoger Gregory," said Julia Payne, the former presi­dent's spokeswoman. "It's clear that Roger Gregory met every qualification to be on this court exc~pt for the right-wing litmus test. 
Clinton gave Gregory and more than 42 other nominees recess appointments after they weren't considered by the Senate last year. But the recess appointment only allows the nominee to serve until the end of the year, so Clinton renominated Gregory and some other judicial candi­dates not considered by the Senate Judiciary Committee before he left otflce. 


"I am disappointed that such qualified nominees, some of whom have been waiting four years for a hearing and a vote, have been withdrawn," said Sen. Patrick Leahy, the Judiciary Committee's ranking Democrat. 
"Some of 
the women 
and minor­
ity nomi­
nees, in 
particular, 
are now 
left to suf­
fer the 
same frus­
trations as 
so many other qualified nominees over the past six years." 
The decision to withdraw the Clinton judicial nominees comes as Bush starts to look at filling the remaining vacancies with his own nominees. 
White House counsel Albert Gonzales and Attorney General John Ashcroft met with top offi­cials from the American Bar A'isociation on Monday to dL'lcuss the nomination process. 
A committee of senior adminis­tration officials led by Gonzales has interviewed more than 50 candidates in a drive to fill near­ly 100 vacancies with judges who share Bush's conservative phi­losophy. 
However, with the 50-50 
Senate split, Democrats have 
more power in the committee. 
"The president's action with­
drawing the nine appellate court 
nominees. including the two 
well-qualified women from 
Michigan, deals a body blow to 
the bipartisan cooperation need­
ed to move forward in many crit­
ical areas, including filling judi­
cial vacancies," said Sen. Carl 
Levin. 0-Mich. 

Other judicial nominees whose 
names were withdrawn included 
former Iowa Attorney General 
Bonnie Campbell, who wanted a 
position on the 8th U.S. Circuit 
Court of Appeals; lawyer Enrique 
Moreno of El Paso, Texas. to the 
5th U.S. Circuit; Kathleen 
McCree-Lewis, who would be the 
first black woman on the 6th 
Circuit if approved; and promi­
nent Honolulu attorney James 
Duffy for the 9th Circuit. 




("1j 



~k~cea~·W, \~~r~ ~Vt·Wl118lf 
page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 20, 2001 
ALGERIA 


Scars of war haunt divided population 
Associated Press 
TIZI OUZOU 
ldir Benyuunes writes news­paper articles by day and hunts killMs by night. 
The 40-year-old journalist lives in Tizi Ouzou. a sprawl­ing town nestled among the green hills of the Kabylie region in northern Algeria. 
The forested hills may be picturesque, but they also pro­vide shelter to dozens of Islamic rebels. who regularly kill civilians and soldiers as part of their decade-long cam­paign to force the creation of an Islamic state like Iran. 
Bcnyounes is a "patriot" ­the term used here for civil­ians who have taken up arms to defend their homes. His daily life is still shackled by the past and by the violence that has terrorized this north African nation since 1991. 
Just 60 miles away, in a cyber care in the capital, Algiers, there are signs of a new Algeria struggling to be born among the young men and women reading e-mails and chatting online. 
Mounia Bettache, the 31­year-old owner of the Cybcr Net(at)Work cafe, believes the Internet is the perfect tool for teaching the world that Algeria is more than just another volatile African nation, where democracy has been doomed to failure. 
"When foreigners come and see this is a proper cyber cafe ... they say, 'Oh, there is that kind of thing in Algeria as well,"' Bettache said. "The Internet has also changed the Algerian mentality. Before, we did not communicate much." 
Bettache's Algeria is a world away from the reality of fear in isolated villages, but in a country covering an area nearly as big as a quarter of the United States, contradic­tions are inevitable. 
Just two hours by plane from Rome, Algeria stretches from the Mediterranean to the Sahara and its vast oil and gas reserves that give the country its foreign clout and make its stability a regional and international imperative. 

Once the country held an exotic cachet, especially among the French, who ruled here untit 1962. Writers like Algerian-born Albert Camus and Andre Gide brought the romance of Algeria to a wider public. 
Now, the country is almost synonymous with brutality and death after 10 years of inter­nal warfare pitting Islamic militants against security forces, with civilians caught in the crossfire. The conflict has claimed more than 100,000 lives. 
The violent insurgency even reached France, where 10 people were killed and some 250 injured in a wave of bombings in l 995. The killings served as a graphic reminder that the shadow of France's 130 years as Algeria's master still hung over Europe. 
The worst of the violence seems to have receded within Algeria, at least in some regions. President Abdelaziz Boutellika, who was elected in 1999, offered an amnesty last year to rebels who surren­dered and about 6,000 insur­gents accepted. 
But a few thousand rebels are still committed to arms, ignoring the authorities' efforts to woo them home from their mountain hide-outs. 
It is impossible to know exactly how many there are. but their ranks are regularly thinned by men like Benyounes, who shoot to kill. 
"We are trying to preserve life. If we let them live, thou­sands of lives are in danger," he said, speaking in French. 
The rebels exist in groups of four or five, but join forces for large attacks. They are financed by black market busi­nesses and the collection of 

protection money  - their  
"revolutionary tax"  - from  
potential targets.  

Undergrads and Grad Students! 
Beapartof Summer 





Experience 
2001  a pre-college  
program  
J u I y  8  -J u I y  2 8  for rising  

•

high school seniors 
Needed: Female 
Pick up you r a pp Iication at: 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
Pre-College Programs 
and Male Resident Counselors 
Office of Pre-College Programs 206 Brownson Hall or call 1-9381 for more information about position requirements and compensation 
www.nd.edu/~precoll 



College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
Invites 

Nominations 
for 


the Father Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nominations for this year's award. Please send your letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Dian Murray, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Wednesday, March 2l5t, 2001 




Sheedy Award 
Tuesday, March 20, 2001 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
HAITI 


Supporters of Aristide protest, block streets 

Associaled Press 
POHT-AU-PRINCE 

Backers of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide demanding the arrest of oppo­sition leaders blocked streets with flaming tires and rusted cars Monday in protests that spread to the capital's suburbs. 
Opposition leaders said Aristide sup­porters shot at their party offices in the capital and stoned opposition members, injuring three of them with rocks. An independent radio station, Signal FM in the suburb of Petionville. said it received death threats. 
Tree branches, large rocks and other debris littered the streets of Petionville, as Aristide supporters, shouting "Aristide or death!" spray-painted their demands on streets. 
One called for the arrest of Gerard Gourgue, the head of the "alternative" government set up by the 15-party Convergence opposition alliance to protest Aristide's May election victory. 
The elections gave Aristide the presi­dency and his party an 80 percent majority in the parliament. The opposi­tion has rejected offers to join Aristide's government, saying the elections were fraudulent. 
The Organization of American States has also said 10 Senate seats won by Aristide party members should have gone to a second-round vote, and mil­lions in international aid have been put on hold over the results. 
Police presence was scarce during 

and Frank O'Malley A~ards. 
the rampage. 
"Our lives are in jeopardy," Gourgue said Monday. "The government and the police have abandoned the country to street thugs." 
As Aristide supporters shouted for the arrest of Gourgue and other leaders on grounds of subversion, the U.S. Embassy urged people to remain calm i~ the impoverished Caribbean country riddled by years of instability. . 
"The situation is deteriorating rapid• ly. We have entered a cycle of violence and political terror," said Edouard Paultre, a member of a civil leaders committee who has tried to mediate among the political rivals. 
Aristide's government has said demonstrators who engage in violence should be arrested, but Aristide himself has not spoken out against the latest clashes, involving supporters of his Lavalas Family party. 
Aristide grass-roots leader Rene Civil said "illegal" acts were being encour­aged by "incendiary statements of the opposition," said Civil, referring to Gourgue's support of the reestablish­ment of the army, which led a 1991 coup against Aristide during his first term. U.S. troops restored Aristide to power three years later. 
Some protesters reportedly stoned passing cars while others tried to set fire to a gasoline station in the Port-au­Prince suburb of Delmas, where two unidentified men were wounded in gunfire between rival political groups, the private Radio Metropole reported. 

The Irish Clover Award recognizes a faculty/staff person for outstanding service to the Notre Dame Student Body. 
The Frank O'Malley Award is presented to a faculty member for their outstanding contribution to the Notre Dame Student Body. 
Help Recognize Outstanding Service to the Notre Dame Student Body. Pick-up a nomination form. 


Nominations are due March 23 by 3pm in the Student Government Office. 203 LaFortune. 
page 10 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 20, 2001 
GUYANA 

Citizens barred from voting claim injustice 
~ 


Forming long lines beginning ~ 
~ 
S.B.C.M.E.
Associated Pre.so 

at dawn, Guyanese turned out in large numbers to vote. Many ~ said they hoped to leave the 
presents the 7th annual
GEORGETOWN polling stations early aRd return ~ ~ 
Guyanese of African and East home before any violence. ~CAL.t.~ Indian descent voted Monday in Before the vote, Guyanese elections that have driven the crowded markets to buy food races apart, prompling accusa­and water in case of unrest. tions of fraud and raising the Some Guyanese of Indian possibility of violence. descent also said they were 
Mini-Medical School 
By ,tft11rnoon, an angry crowd unable to vote. of about 200 blacks. had gath­"They haven't got my name ored outside the headquarters on the voter's list," said of the black-dominated People's Vickram James. 35. "They 
Lecture Series 
National haven't got any Congress information
"They haven't got my
opposition about me." loin us for 6_ informative evening_s a~ leading_doctors, professionals and university/medical school party, saying name on the voter's list. Both Jagdoo professors discuss the hottest topics m med1cme today. Free ofcharge and open to the general public. they wern and black
They haven't got any Session l. Tuesday March 20 200 I : 
wrongly opposition
information about me. " Baseball, Mary Shelley, and Neuromuscular Disease, Robert M. Pascuzzi, M.D.
barred from leader voting Desmond lloyto Session 2, Tuesday, March 27 2001 · because of the People's Domestic Violence, Ann M. Delaney, J.D.
Vickram James 
their names N a t i o· n a I
Guyanese citizen Session 3 Tuesday, April 3 2001:
were omitted Congress have 
Healthy, Wealthy, and \.Vise: Nutrition and Exercise, Michael F_ Busk, M.D., M.P.H.
from voter expressed con­rcgistrnlion lisL'i. cern about the accuracy of the Session 4 Tuesday April 10, 200 I: Amanda de Vent, 22, said she voter lists. The elections com­Fear, Anxiety, and Addictions, Susan Ball, Ph.D. had a paper stub indicating she mission says it has largely cor­Session 5 Tuesday. April 17. 200 I:
registered properly. rected discrepancies. 
Advances in Plastic Surgery, Barry L. Eppley, M.D.
"But my name is not on the After the last election in list, and I can tell you that one 1997, the opposition said the 
Session 6. Tuesday April 24 2001: 
in every family on my street is vote was rigged to favor the 
Militant Microbes -Antibiotic Resistant Bacteria, Richard B. Kohler, M.D. not on the list," she said. 'Tm Indian-backed governing party, 
very angry." 
Some blacks said they suspect a vole-rigging conspiracy by the governing party of President Bharrat Jagdeo, who like the majority of his supporters is of Indian descent. 
prompting race riots and bomb­ings. One died and several were injured. 
Bloodshed also followed vot­ing in 1992. Four black protest­ers were shot and killed by police and dozens injured. 
To register, ~all (2I 9) 631-7 I 77 For more information, call 631-5574 Time: 7:00-9:00 p.m. Indiana time Place: 102 DeBartolo Hall (west of stadium), University of Notre Dame 

EVENT TIME 
On-Call Hours., 1:30-4:00 p.m. On-Call Hours., 3:00-5:00 p.m Writing Cover Letters 4:00-5:00 p.m. 
On-Call Hours ., 10-12 p.m. & 1 :30-4 p.m. Preparing for the Science Career Fair Q 4:00-5:00 p.m. Writing Cover Letters ~ 5:00-6:00 p.m. Preparing for the Arts & Letters Career Fair 6:00-7:00 p.m. 
On-Call Hours., 10-12 p.m. & 1:30-4 p.m. Preparing for the Arts & Letters Career Fair 4:00-5:00 p.m. Writing Cover Letters ~ 5:00-6:00 p.m. 
On-Call Hours ., 10-12 p.m. & 1 :30-4 p.m. Preparing for the Science Career Fair Q 12:30-1 :30 p.m. Writing Cover Letters ~ 3:00-4:00 p.m. On-Call Hours • 3:00-5:00 p.m. Preparing for the Arts & letters Career Fair 6:00-7:00 p.m. 
On-Call Hours• 10-12 p.m. & 1 :30-4 p.m. Preparing for the Science Career Fair l:l 4:00-5:00 p.m. 
On-Call Hours ., 10-12 p.m. & 1 :30-4 p.m. Preparing for the Arts & Letters Career Fair 4:00-5:00 p.m. 
Sdence Career Fair 12-5:00 p.m. FBI Presentation 4:00-5:30 p.m. D'Arey Advertising Presentation 4:00-5:00 p.m. 
Arts and Letters Career fair 10-4:00 p.m. 
CIA Presentation TBA 
+  On-Call Hours: Short I 5-20 min. ~ons, first come, first-served rerume/cover letter reviews/career questions.  
iii  Writing CoVEr Letters: Cover letters are required for the Cover Letter /Resume Drop  
Q  Preparing for the Science Career Fair: Pre-Professional students-you may want to attend the Science Career Fair March 21".  

DATE Mon, Mar 19 
Tues, Mar 20 
Wed, Mar 21 
Thurs, Mar 22 
Fri, Mar 23 Mon, Mar 26 Tues, Mar 27 
Wed, Mar 28 
Thurs, Mar 29 
LOCATION 

248 Flanner Hall Grand Hall, O'Shag 
114 Flanner Hall 
248 Flanner Hall 114 Flanner Hall 114 Flanner Hall 119 O'Shag 
248 Flanner Hall 
114 Flanner Hall 
114 Flanner Hall 

248 Flanner Hall 114 Flanner Hall 114 Flanner Hall Grand Hall, O'Shag 119 O'Shag 
248 Flanner Hall 114 Flanner Hall 
248 Flanner Hall 114 Flanner Hall 

Hertitage Hall, JACC 119 O'Shag 1 14 Flanner Hall 
Hertitage Hall, JACC 
TBA 

Tuesday, March 20, 200 l The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 


MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2001 · 4:15 P.M. 
Margaret Hebblethwaite 
Women in the Gospels 
.------­
TUESDAY, MARCH 20, 2001 

6:15 P.M. 7:00 P.M. 
PRAYER SERVICE LECTURE 

MARGARET HEBBIETHWAITE ROMERO OF THE AMERICAS: SEEN THROUGH PARAGUAYAN EYES 




Both lectures to be held in the Hcsburgh Center Auditorium. 
Presented by 

~~ THE HELEN KELLOGG INSTITUTE..r, FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
and 

~THE JOAN B. KROC INSTITUTE FOR ~INTERl\'ATIONAL PE.\CE srnDIES 
Cosponsored with 
LATIN AMERICAN/NORTH AMERICAN 
CHURCH CONCERNS (LANACC} 
MEXICO 

Fox supports official legalization of drugs 
Associated Press 

MEXICO CITY 
Struggling with the corrup• tion and violence caused by drug trafficking. President Vicente Fox says the solution might be to eventually legalize drug use. 
In an interview published by two newspapers Sunday, Fox indicat­ed agree­ment with a police official who suggested last week that the only way to win the war on drugs was to legalize drugs ­eliminating the profits and vio­lence caused by illegal traffick­ing. 
But the president quickly qualified that statement, saying Mexico could not move alone and indicating he did not expect such a step soon. 
"When the day comes that it is time to adopt the alternative of lifting punishment for con­sumption of drugs, it would have to come all over the world because we would gain nothing if Mexico did it but the produc­tion and traffic of drugs ... con­tinued here," he said. 
"So humanity some day will see that it is best in that sense," he said in remarks also reported by El Sol de Mexico. 

On Monday, Fox spokes­woman Martha Sahagun was asked to elaborate. 
"The president was very clear in what he said, that drugs and drug smuggling is a serious affair not only for Mexico. it is an affair that affects many countries in the world," she said. " ... We have to follow this problem closely, in a joint and global manner, tak­ing solutions at the appropriate times." 
Fox has vowed to cooperate closely with the United States against traffickers who have used Mexico both as a transit route and production site for narcotics. 
On Jan. 24, the new presi­dent announced a "great cru­sade" against drugs, saying, "I pledge a war without mercy." 
Fox pr·omised to overhaul the nation's corrupt prison system and to follow a Mexican Supreme Court ruling last week that removed barriers to extradition of Mexicans for trial in the United States. 
Yet some Mexican experts ­
including Fox's Foreign 
Secretary Jorge Castaneda ­
have long suggested that the 
drug war is being lost and that 
some drugs should be decrimi­
nalized. 


Undergrads • Graduate Students 
• 
Fulfill a distribution or general education requirement 

• 
Accelerate progress towards your degree or minor 

• 
Earn full-year credit in foreign languages and physics 

• 
Live on campus~ 35 miles south of San Francisco 

• 
Over 200 classes offered in more than 50 departments 


Courses such as: Physics, Economics, Biology, Engineering, Music, Computer Science, Philosophy, Drama, Classics, Athletics, Intensive Languages, Chemistry, Psychology, Mathematics, Anthropology, Sociology, Urban Studies, Art 
Stanford University Summer Session Building 590, Ground Floor• Stanford, CA 94305-3005 Ph(650) 723-3109 • Fax(650) 725-6080 • Email: surnmersession@stanfordedu 
summersession.stanford.edu 
LIN!llill 

IEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER 
Tuesday, March 20, 200 I 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !lox Q, Notre D,me, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly MANAGING EDITOR BusJNliSS MANAGl::R Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR Kerry Smirh 

NFWS f.UITOR• Jason Mc~arlcy Vn.-wrorNT EDITOR: Pat McElwce SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadrc:r Sc:FNf EmToR, Amando Crcco SA!Nr MAR\"~ EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO Eono11, Peter Rich,irdso11 
ADVERTISING MANAGU, Kimberly Springer AD Dl!SIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SVS'ITMS A.DMJNl~TRATOR: Pavel Bbgnov WEIi AllMINl~1AATOR: Adam Turner CONTROU.FR: Kevin Ryan 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGl'RIGENl'IW. INFO.............631-7471 Fu............................................................. 631-6927 ADYF.RTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CH!EF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnR/AssT. ME.. .................. 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE....................................... 631-5313 NEWS .......................................................... 631-5323 observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu VJF.WPOINT............... ,..................... , .. ,........ 631-5303 observer.vicwpoinc.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. J@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 obs,-rver.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR¥'s.............................................631-4324 
observcr.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO ........................................................ 63J-8767 SYSTF.MS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web sire at http://ob,m,,r.nd.edu foe daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-rhe 

movies/music for 
minute forccast5 

weekly student reviews 
adverti.sc for policies 

online features for spe­
and rares ofprim ads 

cial cunpus coverage 
about The Observer
a.rchives to search for 
articles published after 

co meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Univmiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Maty's College. Editorial conrenc, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on conrem. 
The news is reponcd as accurately and objectively as possible, Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofrhe Edicor in Chief, Managing Edicor, Assistant Managing Editor and departmem editors. Commemaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expr<s.sion ofall opir1ions through letters is encouraged, Letters to the Editor must be signed ,md must include contact information. 
Q1«1tiorJJ regarding Ob,m•,r palic~, sliould be direct­ed to Editor in Chu[M,lu ConnoUy. 
Are the Bengal Bouts about generosity or glory? 
As both a participant and a specta-er dominates the other for most of the every hit that my friend connected tor, I can say the Bengal Bouts were a fight, the judges should be able to dis-with and would probably fail to notice huge success because of the money tinguish the winner in an obvious every hit that his opponent made, not raised for the missions of 13angladesh. manner. It seemed that a few boxers because I meant to but because that is Many students put in a lot of ----~ won because of who they were what happens when a judge has a ~ime and sacrifices to help and whom they knew -in friend fighting. I strongly believe that the people in \ / particular. the judges. neutral, experienced judges should be Bangladesh. But after When I saw the stu-brought in for the Bouts, just as expe­viewing the Bouts, I ntjudges scream-rienced referees arc brought in. 
am left wondering · g in support for Experienced judges would come in ['orall the students ne of the fighters free and judge the fights the way theyand student uring a fight, a saw them, without having any attach­judges actually ·me when they ment to certain fighters. The offer was believe in the hould have made earlier in the year to bring in "cause," or if been judging, I professional judges for free. but was 
the Bouts are knew that the denied by the club. about glory fight was Most importantly I feel for the box­and winning. going to be ers who went out there and out-hit the 
Throughout judged the opponent.. only to be on the losing end the quarterfi-._...,._.. wrong way. or things when the winner was nals and Ultimately it announced. To know that the only way semifinals \ was. to win the fight was to knock out their there were One fight opponent took their heart away. The judgment -----was even a fighters had won the fight in every­calls, which ----• ~ unanimous body's eyes except the judges. I praise seemed to go _.,•..' decision for the real champions of the Bouts for 
against the ~ the fighter who accepting their judged loss, knowing majority of the clearly lost. that the real reason they went into the spectator's opin-......_...J,__ _.. ~ Now, I know ring was to raise money for the mis­ions. At these that the "cause" sions of Bangladesh. 
moments I felt that of the Bouts is for There was also a moment when a 
certainly the stu-the missions, but fighter won the fight and was so 
dent judges must seeing this made me caught up in the celebrations that he have seen something think about how much failed to show respect and acknowl­that I didn't, and I really the boxers must want the edge the opponent he had beaten. didn't think too much of it. championship and how the Which brings me back to the question. Then the finals came, and there "cause" is lost when such a thing ls this for charity or for glory? were a few fights in which the fight happens. was clearly won by the boxer who was I am not claiming that the judges Derrick Bravo judged to be the loser. meant to make wrong judgments, JUlllOr 
I know judges can miss a few punch-because I know that if I was judging St. Edward's Hall es here and there, but when one fight-and had a friend fighting. I would see March 19, 200 I 
Family thanks community, continues fight 
Fourteen months ago when Scotty was diagnosed with leukemia, our lives were turned upside down. Although the months that followed were very trying and difficult. it never prepared us for the loss of his presence in our lives. As parents, it was our job to love, guide and support our Scotty. We are now and always have been very proud of Scotty. He taught us more than we taught him. They say nothing is yours until you give it away. God gave us a great gift in Scotty, that is because he belonged to Him. We never knew where Scotty's love for Notre Dame came from, but it was no mistake. After his Make-A-Wish week­end and the way all of you came into his life was proof that it was part of God's plan. 
When God called Scotty home to continue his journey with the Lord. that made him ours (yours as well). When heartache came to visit, it left a break that will never go away. We know that His for selfish reasons that we want him here, for Scotty is where we all aspire to be. We know that he will be with us forever in our memories from the way he inspired and touched so many lives. On behalf of 
DILBERT 

SCOTT ADAMS 
.
E 
!:
~ 
. 

I HIWE ANOTHER.
HERE'S A LIST Of!
WE NEED TO 
1i 
@) 
:;;•. 

PROJECT FOR YOU
THE PEOPLE YOU'VE
REDUCE STAfF 
e 
..C 
., 
... UH ... TED.
A-L-M-0-$-T
~
BY -n..JENTY. 
;" 
~ 
E 
8 
t:'. 
Q,I 
:!:! 

.__.
__.i:::~~~:________,.....nUillllli!22:tJL_..J~~h...c=I 

Scotty and family we wish to express our gratitude to the entire Notre Dame family -fans, friends, alumni, staff and students -for the tremendous outpouring of love. prayers and support. The past year has been unimaginably diffi­cult. All the e-mails, cards. letters, gifts and even the post­ings on the ND-supersite, have been much appreciated. They have all meant so much to us and Scotty during the most trying times during treatment and since his passing away. 
Notre Dame lost three precious members of its family (Conor Murphy, Brianne Clary and Scotty) to the No. 1 child killing disease in our nation. The Cox Kids Foundation / Scott Delgadillo Fund was created to help fund the research for a cure not only for leukemia but also for other blood related diseases. It is our goal to help bring the awareness of leukemia to a national level. 
Eric, Carmen and Henry Delgadillo San Diego, CA March 19, 200! 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I never saw a game without taking sides and never want to see one." 
Warren G. Harding president 

--... -· ------­
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Tuesday, March 20, 2001 BSERVER 
page 13 
Preventing violence in schools with parenting 
If your dog bit someone, you could be civilly and perhaps criminally liable even if the dog had never bitten anyone before. Is your duty to control your dog greater than a parent's duty to control his child? The question arises in the wake of the Santana High School shootings in Santee. Ca. Charles Andrew Williams. 15, will be tried as an adult for killing two students and wound­ing 13 with his father's revolver. 
At common law, the parent (or guardian) could be liable for injury caused by his child where the parent had notice of the child's dangerous tendency and failed to prevent the injury by reasonably controlling the child. Most states also impose parental liabilit-y by statute, up to a stated amount, for a child's torts or, in some states, "criminal gang" activity. Many states impose crimi­nal liability on parents for crimes commit­ted by their minor children, especially with firearms, if there is intent or criminal negligence on the part of the parent and the parent's act or failure caused the child's act. 
Parental liability laws are sound in prin­ciple but difficult to enforce. Their efficacy is debatable. "Punishing parents for their children's behavior," wrote Professor Naomi Cahn of George Washington University, is "retribution, rather than prevention and rehabilitation. It sends a confusing message to juveniles that they are ... responsible for their actions yet ... not fully culpable because it is their par­ents who have failed to exercise ... super­

-vision." 

Stricter enforcement of parental liability would probably not have prevented the killings at Santana and other schools. Nor is it likely that those killings would have been avoided by stricter gun control, more police and metal detectors at schools and other measures which address symptoms. 
Santana High had taken precautions. Students could report threatc; anonymous­ly, the principal had SWAT training and a sheriffs deputy was on part-time duty at the school. Seven full-time supervisors patrolled the campus. Extra phones, radios and speakers were in place to spread word of trouble quickly. Programs encouraged students to get along. includ­ing one called, "Names can really hurt us." 
Such efforts are worthwhile. But, as Education Secretary Rod Paige said, "It's beyond guns. The guns may be the instru­ment of the violence, but they're not the cause ofthe violence." One cause is the collapse of the American family. Marisa McFedries, director of the City of Santee teen center, said, "Something's missing in these kids' lives. They're on their own. Their parents work all the time. Their peers have become family." 
Former Education Secretary William Bennett states, in his Index of Cultural Indicators 2001, "A child conceived in the United States today ... has a 25 percent chance of not being brought to term, because of abortion.... lf that child is 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Pets aren't people, not property either 
This letter is in response to the March 8 column by Charles Rice entitled "Remember: Pets aren't people." 
I hesitate to question the logic of such a learned man as professor Charles Rice but he does seem to have opened the way for a reasoned argument in support of Peter Singer's position that "parents of severely disabled babies ... should be allowed to kill a child whose prospects for a minimally decent life are very poor." As I understand Rice's explana­tion, the difference between spiritual and non-spiritual beings is the inability of the latter to "engage in the spiritual activities of abstraction and reflection." 
Anyone who has taken the time to real­ly get to know an animal, such as a chim­panzee, cat or dog, knows that these ani­mals can engage in acts of abstraction (problem-solving) and reflection (contem­plating the consequences of an action). I can agree with professor Rice in that I have never seen a bird use a set of plans to build a nest (by the same token, I have never seen a human try to weave a spi­der's web without a set of plans; I won­der what that implies?). 
These are wonderfully simple exam­ples of innate behaviors peculiar to par­ticular species. However, I have seen squirrels solve the difficult problem of trying open a bird feeder, and crows can solve the problem of harvesting fish on the end of a line dangling through an ice hole. I certainly agree that their abilities 
of abstraction and reflection do not 
appear to be equal to those of most humans, but then there are humans who seem to be lacking these abilities entire­ly. 
If a human cannot communicate, has no perceptible brain activity and cannot respond to stimuli other than by simple reflex, then this human does not qualify, by professor Rice's definition, as a spiri­tual being {i.e., cannot engage in abstrac­tion and reflection). Thus, its soul is a material soul, just as are those of "Dogs, other animals and plants." 
There is another equally important question here. What insight or special knowledge allows professor Rice to pro­nounce that the souls of animals are material or that the souls of humans are not material? I am not aware of any tan­gible data that can be used to support either claim (Has anyone ever captured or isolated and studied a soul?). 
On the other hand, I do have enough personal experience with animals to know that they are not all prepro­grammed automatons with no sense of self. The next time Sparky (one of the cats who lives in my home) asks to be let out the back door or opens the Venetian blinds to gaze through the window. I will remind him that he cannot think abstractly or reflect on the consequences of his actions and that he has no rights, except those granted by his guardians. Fortunately for him, he has guardians who believe that they are responsible for his well-being and who do not view him simply as a piece of property. 
Richard Jensen 
profussor ofbiology Saint Mary's College March 16, 2001 
born, there's a 33 percent chance he will value, how can we be surprised when our be born out of wedlock. And for children sense of community erodes? ... When we who are not born out of wedlock, there's a answer murder with more violence in the 50 percent chance that their parents will death penalty, we put the state's seal of divorce before they're 16." approval on revenge. When the most dan­
"The scale of marital breakdown in the gerous place in the country is a mother's West since 1960 has no historical prece-womb and the unborn child can have dent," he said. "The breakup of the -------his or her head crushed in an 
American family is the most profound ... social trend of our time." 
Two other causes were noted by Denver Archbishop Charles Chaput in his 1999 Senate testimony on Columbine: "First ... we've lost our common sense....The reason­able person under­stands that what we eat. drink and breathe will make us healthy or sick. In like manner, what we hear and ... see lift.s us up -or drags us down .... Common sense tells us that the violence of our music, our video games, our films and our television has to go somewhere, and it goes straight into the hearts of our children to bear fruit in ways we can't imagine -until something like [Columbine] happens. 
"Second, ... the real problem is ... in us, and it won't be fixed by v-chips .... We've created a culture that markets violence in dozens of ... ways, seven days a week. When we build our advertising campaigns on ... selfishness and greed, and when money becomes the universal measure of 
abortion. even in the process of being born, the ... mes­sage is that life ... may not 
be worth much at all.... Certain kinds of killing we enshrine as rights 
and protect by law. -When we live this 
5> kind of contradiction, 
, why are we surprised at the results? I don't think [the Columbine murders] will he the 
> last. ... Nothing makes "1) us immune from that violence except a relentless commitment to respect the sanctity of 
each human life, from womb to natural death." Maybe it's time to pay atten­
tion. Mother Teresa, as usual, 
gave us the bottom line: "Ifwe accept that a mother can kill even her own child, how can we tell other people not to kill one another?" 
Professor Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Art is an enigma 
What is "art?" 
I've thought about this question many times. Interestingly enough, I've never found a suitable definition. Still, I do know some things about art. I know art covers a wide range of topics. I know that different cultures have different concepts of art. 
So, what is "art?" 
Although I can't provide a precise definition, one thing is certain. In every culture, art represents creativity and emotion. Because people are individuals, they have dif­ferent experiences and beliefs. Art allows people to represent their ideas, and in turn, represent themselves. I might not know exactly what art is, hut I know that this is what makes it beautiful -even if it's "anti-Catholic?" 
Contrary to what might be a popular belief at Notre Dame, not everyone is Catholic. And if the portrayal of Christ as a woman is anti-Catholic, then so he it. That fact alone doesn't automatically nullify the artistic merit of the work. Nowhere does it say all art must glorify Catholicism. 
But what if the sole purpose of the work is "to create shocks and arguments, not to further religion," as Shawn Newberg claimed in his letter on March 8? I'm willing to bet that Giuliani didn't discuss "Yo Mama's Last Supper" with its creator prior to con­demning it. I'm willing to bet that most people who are offended by this work didn't consider the reasons why the artist would portray Christ in such a bizarre manner. But I'm also willing to bet that the artist didn't focus time and energy in a shallow attempt to stir controversy. 
Perhaps people perceive the work as "outrageous" and "disgusting" because its rep­resentation is unfamiliar. According to this logic, it would be right to judge another person based on his physical characteristics. I don't think any person ofsubstance would agree with this idea. Likewise, I don't think it is a wise decision to shun an art­work before its underlying message is analyzed. 
Exploring the unknown is the only way people can truly learn. When people con­demn an artwork without giving it proper consideration, they are not only cheating the artist out of a voice. They are cheating themselves out of an education. 
Dawn Kuras freshman Pasquerilla West March 9, 2001 

nee 
page 14 Tuesday, March 20, 2001 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Scorpion fails to escape dreaded sophomore slump 
By ARIENNE THOMPSON 
Scene Music Critic 
Thu concept of artistic growth is a complicated thing. Though hard to achieve, many have managed to fulfill the task of maintaining an artistic per­sona from album to album, while still allowing room for creative and musical growth -take artists like OutKast and Erykah Badu. for example. 
Unfortunately. however, Huff Hyders' first lady Eve fails to expand her style, and with her second release entitled Scorpion. displays exactly what a stag­nant, uninspired hip-hop artist sounds like. 
The words "sophomore slump" never rang more true than on Eve's most rocent release. Well, DMX's ridiculous album Flesh of My Flesh docs come in a close second, but that is beside the point. Getting back to Eve. Scorpion is a sad collection of trite and unimpressive tracks. Teeming with unoriginal skits, 
overused beats, and elementary lyrics, this album falls short of' any promises of hip-hop dom­ination that Eve may have men­tioned on her d e b u t release. 
The pro­duced beats are tired, as is Eve's own material. She falls face first into the cliche "nig­gas and bitches" mentality leaving little room for true 
hip-hop fans to take her seriously. Though this sub-culture has made her rap brethren (performers such as Master P, Juvenile and Nelly) megastars with mega 
.... 

money, something about Eve speaks to a talent able to transcend such nonsense. 
Scorpion kicks off with the MTV friendly "Who's That Girl," in which Eve once again brags about her unpar­alleled skills and abilities. Infused with the sounds of brass, the production on this track adds some depth to an other­wise shallow song, but not enough to salvage it. Throughout the album, pro­duction credits include Huff Ryders' in­ho use prodigy Swizz Beatz and Grammy winning producer Dr. Dre. However, these two do little to rescue Eve from herself. as she becomes bogged down by her own stale lyrics. 
Guest appearances by other artists also provide little relief on this album. The guitar-twanged "Blow Yo Mind" credits Gwen Stefani, but on close lis­ten, it's hard to tell if the feisty lead singer of pop-ska band No Doubt actu­ally showed up for the recording of the song. Fellow Huff Hyder DMX surfaces on the annoying "Scream Double H" to contribute his big bark and little bite to the album. proving his disappointing status as the new pop-rap artist or the year. Nevertheless, on the most sur­prising and misplaced track. Eve enlists the help or Bob's kids ... Marley, that is. All parties involved had good intentions for "No, No, No," but lackluster lyrics and Eve's bad attempt aL being a reg­gae singer make this track a failure among many. It is as if she set out with the goal of mixing various musical gen­res on the album, but did so with very little direction or planned artistry. 

Overall, Scorpion docs very little to impress the listener. Though Eve's forceful delivel'y and unabashed confi­dence have already made her a star, she will have to do much more on any future albums to solidify her status as a real rap artist. 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Silkk's new way offers little new substance to rap 
between verses. sound as if ihey were free­By LAURA ROMPF The first single off the styled or written quickly. Scene Music Cricic album, "That's Cool," is tear­Perhaps Silkk should have cut 
ing up the charts on BET's top more songs and condensed the 
Movies with the biggest stars 10 as well as MTV's R&B video album. aren't always the best pic­countdown. Silkk trades verses Track six "Pop Lock in"' tures, and CDs with the biggest with Trina. who was first starts strong with Snoop's rap­rappers aren't always the best introduced while rapping ping teamed with a catchy albums. In Silkk the Shocker's along side Trick Daddy last chorus and background beat, fourth album, My World, My year. Trina and Silkk play well but overall the beat becomes Way, he raps along with off each other, trying to one­mundane and the lyrics offer Master P., Snoop Dogg, up offers of what they can do nothing new. Mystikal and Trina, but of the in a relationship. The pair "Uh Ha" is a strong song. album's 23 songs, only a few aren't as comfortable with Silkk's arrogance shines emerge as quality tracks. each other as Amil and JayZ through, but he backs it up 
In the album's best song, "lie were in "Can I Get a ... ," but with his lyrics and now. Slay Did That," Silkk raps alongside the song is sure to climb the Scan raps along with Silkk and older brother and executive charts. says, "They way I live makes producer Master P. The song's Several tracks on the album 'em wanna change their life. upbeat tempo lits Silkk's slow­appear to be filler songs in See my girl, makes 'em wanna er flow and the lyrics are more which the production falls as change their wife." The two refined than many other songs short as the lyrics. "Funny 'No Limit Soldiers' proudly on the album. The catchy cho­Guy" and "Haters" do not have boast of yachts and Cadillacs rus provides a perfect break catchy beats and the lyrics that rapping mogul and pro­
ducer Master P. has helped them earn. The songs "What's Heaven
My World My Way Like" and "The Day After" show Silkk's deeper side. In "What's llcavcn Like," Silkk
Silkk The Shocker laments over his brother who was killed. Ile asks God to judge him for his heart and 
Priority Records not his actions. The song is ok. but seems to be searching the pain ... No matter how bad skills, Silkk's newest album for sympathy. it might look today, there's dishes up several songs that 
However, in "The Day After," always the day after." won't ever be main-course
Rating 

Silkk's lyrics are stronger and There are strong tracks on hits. Overall. Silkk brings noth­offer hope. Ile says, "There's My World, My Way, but with­ing new Ln the table and most always sunshine after the rain. out Tupac's lyrics, Dre's pro­of the songs will remain
.... 
There's always happiness after ducing, and JayZ's rapping unheard leftovtH"S. 




nee 
Tuesday, March 20, 2001 page 15 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Latest Aerosmith falls short of usual standards 
By MARY SPEARS Scene Musk Critic 
An old issue of "Holling Stone" once called Acrosmith's work "comic book scxcapades set to song." Listeners shoulrln 't expect anything different from the band's latest release, Just Push Play. No deep lyrics or introspective thought here -Aerosmith rnerelv wants to make its fans sing along, and feel a little dirty about doing so. 
Of course, this is a welcome respite from Aerosmith's brief foray into power balladry with the absurdly bad "I Don't Want to Miss rt Thing" -compare early Anrosmith work to this song and just try not to be insulted. The original Kad Boys of Hoston work best when they're at their dirtiest (think "Lord of the Thighs" and "F.1.N.E" here, not "Dream On"). 
The problem with Aerosmith is, where docs one start a crilicism of one or rock's most prolific band's first album in four years? 
The album begins with "Beyond Beautiful," a song that manages to remain strong despite its overly appar­ent single potential. It also segues neatly into the title track. "Just Push Play." Now this is more like it. The song kicks off with one of those delightful Steven Tyler nonsense scat..'i, which continues throughout the entire song. It's enough to make even a non-fan hum along. Hopefully. this song will never see release as a single ­il'd be a shame !'or people to ever get sick of it. There is hope in the fact that the lyrics to it are peppered with enough innuendos to discourage all but the most dedi­cated of deejays from actually playing it on the air. 
Next. the album treats you to its first single, "Jaded," 
Just Push Play Aerosmith 
Geffen Records 
Rating 

......
~~~ 


UPCOMING CONCERTS 
Bela Fleck  
Ani DjFranco  
DaYlld Gray  
MXPX  
Ja99ed Ed9e  
U2  
Pa( McGee  House of Blues  
Godsmack  UIC Pavilion  
Amy Ray  Mecro  
Old 97s  VICThea-tre  
Cowboy Mou1h  House of Blues  
s•ck of H All  Mecro  
Ac The Drive-In  Riviera  
Custer  Rllviera  

coursesy of 1fcketniast.er;com 
a song with which lJ-9:i has made everyone within a 50-mile radius intimately familiar. While no one can say that "Jaded" isn't a decent song, it has nothing tu really make it stand out as a stellar example of the songwrit­ing craft. But you can sing along to it, and it won't leave fans wishing to blow their brains out if by chance it should get stuck in their head. 
"Fly Away from Here," the next song, was not written by a single person in the band, and it shows. This ballad recalls "Hole in My Soul" from Nine Lives, but without the humor. Tyler and his unknown confidant wish to pack their bags and f1y away from "here" because life is just too short not to. Deep. Dedicated fans might find merit in this song; most critics haven't. Plus, it's a horrible segue into the next song, an odd but highly likeable rocker called "Trip Hoppin'." Can 50-year-old men even get away with saying that? Tyler apparently can. It's a gift. 
The following track is arguably the best on the album. "Sunshine" is yet another strong, imaginative song with Alice-in­Wonderland-based lyrics. Tyler refers to such crazy imagery as the 

Photo courtesy of Geffen Records 
On its own merits, Just Push Play could be considered a very good rock album -just don't try to compare it to any of rock god Aerosmith's previous work. 
"caterpillar trying to cop a plea" and "chasing that rabbit up her body tree." It has a great chorus, and it's a definite mood-lifter. This song can make you smile. 
Sadly, the second half of the album doesn't quite measure up to the first, which, despite a few off spots, is still defi­nitely fun. "Under My Skin" and "Luv Lies" are good songs, but nothing worth downloading from Napster. The remain­ing four tracks are decent at best, although it is fairly interesting to hear Liv 
March ii 1· Apr'9·4 April.12 
Tyler's backup vocals on "Avant Garden" -and nice to see that awful Tylerian pun in the title. 
Still, Aerosmith, even at its most mediocre, easily beats out most bands of today. The lyrics on this album are great in a sick sort of way, and the ballads are lis­tenable -for ballads. Plus, it's the perfect type of CD to play while one is, say, driving across the country on the way back from spring break. 
Buy Aerosmith's new album, but don't expect the world. Don't even expect the best album this band has ever produced. Just expect a lot of good, dirty, loud fun done the Aerosmith way and done well. 
•:,. '"\ ?/ ::, . ' '

i~jj:~t:::~ '' . :,-,, .·::·. .
AprHl 3 
.Buri"P~N.c.·...Crown·Royal
Apnl 14 
April t9. .",., ...,Gu.J.fl•d··-•JIQ~~~}<l~~•~~ton p.rills
·AprHlo· ·11ruce'$pHnatee'ii':.:il!iiltfliCE s•teet Band·­
1

AprU20 "' :,,, 1.•ve in Kew vork city· 
~tiK··· 

.... 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 20, 2001 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL NFL 
Leaf and Taillpa Bay 
Henderson agrees to one-year deal 
Associated Press 

PEORIA. Ariz. 
Rickey Henderson and the San Diego Padres agreed on a one-year deal Monday that will pay him $250,000 if he makes the club. 
Henderson, the career steals leader who is closing in on other marks, was at the Padres' complex, general man­ager Kevin Towers said. The rest of the team had the day off. 
"I know there was a Rickey sighting," Towers said. 
Henderson spent about three hours at the Padres' complex, but not before getting lost on his way to Peoria, where he went through spring training with the Padres in 1996 and '97. 
"They done built new free­ways," he said. "I had to flag a guy down on the highway and ask him, 'Am I going the right way?'" 
Henderson took about 100 swings in the batting cage and ran some sprints in the out­field. 
Ile hadn't taken batting practice off a machine in 2 1/2 weeks, he said, but has been taking 300 swings a day off a batting tee with the ball on a string. 
"I've always thought spring training was too long as it is. I just need enough to get my timing down," he said. 
Henderson is closing in on two major records. He is three walks short of breaking Babe Ruth's career record of 2,062 and needs to 68 runs to top Ty Cobb's record of 2,245. He also is 86 hits shy of 3,000. 
Henderson was ignored by teams all spring before the Padres, one of his many 
a 

Chargers. agreed to take a
"He's a winning player. 
former long-term con­
pay cut and remain with the
teams, He's the type ofguy that tract. 
Hues, who claimed him off
offered him a "You can't
will help the other 
waivers March 2. 

minor league tell me I'm 
Leafs base salary for next
players."
deal. wrong or you 
season was scheduled to be
Henderson, go get all the 
$1.5 million. Without the new
42, will have Bruce Bochy bench players 
deal, which team spokesman
to play his from every
San Diego manager 
Reggie Roberts said runs 
way onto the team. If he does, he'll make $50,000 more than the major league mini­mum. The contract doesn't include any incentives for pfay­ing time, just the standard Padres package for things like making the All-Star team or winning a Gold Glove, Towers said. 
San Diego manager Bruce Bochy said he env1s1ons Henderson as a backup out­fielder or pinch-hitter, but cer­tainly is not ruling out a start­ing spot in the lineup for the man considered the greatest leadoff hitter in baseball histo­ry. 
Boes revise contract 
"He's a winning player. He's 
the type of guy that will help the other players," Bochy said. 
Henderson was not re-signed by the Seattle Mariners after last season and has played for seven teams in a 22-season career that has included four stops in Oakland. 
He said he's willing to come off the bench for the Padres 
and never 
demanded 
$28 million contract just three days after claiming Leaf for a $100 waiver fee. Johnson will replace Shaun King as the starter, and Leaf becomes the third quarter­back. 
General manager Hich McKay. who was not avail­able for comment, said that claiming Leaf essentially would give the Bucs a "free" look at Leaf because the team wouldn't owe him any­th in g unless he made the team. 
The Dallas Cowboys report­edly contacted Tampa Bay about the prospect of trading for Leaf, who was 4-14 as a starter and threw 33 inter• ceptions compared to 13 touchdown passes with the Chargers. 
Leigh Steinberg, the quar­ter back's agent, did not return a telephone call for comment Monday night. The Bucs said Leaf would meet briefly with the media on Tuesday. 
Leaf delayed a scheduled visit to Tampa after Johnson's signing. 
He met with coach Tony Dungy last week and also spent time with offensive coordinator Clyde Christensen and quarter­backs coach Jim Caldwell. 
Associated P cc•s 

TAMPA, Fla. 
Ryan Leaf will try to jump­start his NFL career under a restructured contract with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. 
Leaf, the second pick in the 1998 draft who was released after three disappointing sea­sons with the San Diego 
team and 
we're going to have a tryout," he said. "In a tryout out of all the teams, I'm not going to be one of the ones that leaves." 
Henderson said there's one thing that no one can take away from him. 
"Wherever I went, that team won. I don't care if they were in last place; they won when I got there. I don't want to pro­ject anything, but I'll say even a team like this, I don't believe we ain't going to win." 
Henderson began his career with his hometown Oakland Athletics in 1979. 
through 2003, the quarter­back would have counted $2.8 million against the salary cap. 
The hefty cap number included $1.3 million of a prorated bonus that guaran­teed the team's option for the last two seasons of a contract Leaf signed as a rookie. 
Leaf made as much news off the field as on it during his turbulent stay with the Chargers, and the Bucs have made it clear they don't view him as the immediate answer to their problems on offense. 
The team signed free agent Brad Johnson to a five-year, 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Safeco Field sustains $400,000 daIDage after earthquake 
of cosmetic damage, probably ond full season at Safeco on work to protect it from an
Associated P rcss ''The roof was designed
close to $400,000," Lincoln April 2 against the Oakland earthquake worked."
with earthquake 
said. Athletics. Workers are still trying to
PEORIA, Ariz. 
"All sorts of stuff. TVs falling tolerances in mind. Following the quake on Feb. repair the damage Safeco sus­
The earthquake that rocked 
down. Cracks. Falling bookcas­Everything in the roof 28, the Mariners were con­tained, but Lincoln said he was
the Puget Sound region last 
es. The list goes on for two cerned mainly about Safeco's confident that "99 percent" of it
month caused about $400,000 that was supposed to
pages. With a property that big retractable roof. would be corrected in time for
damage to Safeco Field. 

with that many things going on, work to protect it from an Within hours, engineers had Opening Night. 
Mariners Chairman and CEO 
you're bound to have that kind opened and shut the roof and "We want to keep Safeco
Howard Lincoln said Monday earthquake worked." 
of size of damage," he said. found that it worked fine, looking perfect,"' he said. 
that Safeco's anti-earthquake 
The Mariners have used the Lincoln said. The Mariners will have to foot
devices worked as the engi­
Howard Lincoln

$517.6 million stadium for the "The roof was designed with the bill for all the earthquake
neers designed them and the 
past 1 1/2 seasons. Mariners' Chainnan and CEO earthquake tolerances in damage because the team's
stadium did not sustain any 
The Mariners wind up their mind," he said. "Everything in earthquake insurance has a $1
structural damage. 

spring training March 29 in the roof that was supposed to million deductible. Lincoln said. 
"But we have had quite a bit Arizona. They open their sec­
..... 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edir
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
Fraternities· Sororities Clubs'Sludent Groups Earn $1,'.l00-$2,000 this semester with the easy Campustundraiser.com three hour fundraising event. No sales required. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today! Contact Campusfundraiser.com at 
(888) 923-3238, or visit www.cam­pusfundraiser.com 
Need babysitter, pref. Early ed major, own trans. 2-yr.-old by Martins 272-1205 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the fife of a child! Summer therapy camp for children with disabilities. Located on shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, Ml. Positions available for Counselors, Lifeguards, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation/ Food Service. and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 17 through August 12. Salary, Room & Board, and experience of a lifetime provid­ed. Call or write for application and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855, (906)228­5770, e-mail BayCliffHC@aol.com 

CHILDCARE NEEDED: ND prof needs childcare in home T-Th mornings, ideally 9-2 but at least 9­
1. Three great kids, 5,3,1. Large comfortable home 1 mile from cam­pus Own transportation required. Please call 631 -3654 days, 289­3865 evenings or email meiss­ner.1@ndedu 
FOR RENT 
3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near campus 2001102&summer 272­6306 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)4-br $700/month 2)3-br. $600/month We'll make almost any changes to the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 
4-BR HOUSE! CENTRAL AIR SEC SYS ETC. $600/MONTH. 291-2209 Macos@michiana.org 
Bed and Breakfast for ND and SMC graduation 3 miles from ND 2 rooms left 287-4545 
3-5 bedroom homes close to campus 232-2595 mmmrentals@aol.com 
2 BR HOUSE PERFECT FOR SIN­GLE/COUPLE $300/MO. Dave 291-2209 
2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT. NEWLY RENOVATED THREE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL 219-298-3800. 
3 Houses still available for 2001-02. 5-6 BR, Furnished, W/D, prime locations, 233-9947 Greg. 
FOR SALE 
SPRING BREAK· DOWNTOWN CHICAGO! $22-25/night-Hostelling lnt'I $2 OFF WITH AD 
312/360-0300 or www.hichicago.org 
PHONE CARDS $20: 2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR­CHARGE or $20 362 MIN WITH NO FEES 
634-1146 CLAUDIA 
634-4210 SARA Beautiful brass bed, queen size, 
with orthopedic mattress set and 
deluxe frame. 

All new, never used, still in plastic. 
$235 
219-862-2082 

Spring Break Appetizer 
Mexican Blankets from $12.95 + 
S&H 

Mexiconnection.com 
Europe $199 one way. Mexico/Caribbean or Central America $250 round trip + tax. Other worldwide destinations cheap. ff you can beat these prices start your own darn airline! Book tickets online www.airtech.com or (8TT) AIRTECH 
PERSONAL 
The Crush is coming ... 
GOZagsl!I 
That's for you mikell 

19-year old girl looking for 30-year 
old businessmen in suits OR 40+ 
widower who resembles Joe Torre or Jay Leno and has a small child. Hot ND male student will also do just tine. Call Kate at 4-2349 
I hope that tonight Is an early night in the Observer office! 
Welcome to Notre Dame Lisa Ann! 
I bet you are very psyched for an I-Love-Lisa party! 
You know whose birthday is coming up on march 25, don't you? 
yeah, ibet you wish you knew 
Canoeing, Nurses, Therapists, 

.... 
--------· 
-, 

Tuesday, March 20, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
FENCING 
Notre Dame comes out on top with 12 NCAA qualifiers 

By MIKE CONNOLLY Spons Wiiter 
The Nutre Dame fencing team qualified the maximum 12 foncers thanks to a strong showing at the Midwest Regional Fencing Championships on March 10. 
"I was a little bit nervous before the tournament because I knew the competition would be tough but everything worked pretty good," head coach Yves Auriol said. "I was a little bit surprised but I am very happy we have 12." 
Although two of its top fencers did not compete, Notre Dame still became one of only two schools to earn 12 spots in the NCAA Championships beginning this Thursday. St. John's also qualified 12 fencers. 
"If we didn't qualify 12 we wouldn't have a shot at the national title so it was pretty important," sabre captain Cari McCullough said. "We knew we had a chance but we knew it was going to be tough to qualify 12 fencers." 
All-Americans Gabor Szelle and 
Natalia Mazur both missed the 
qualifier -making Notre Dame's 
chances for 12 fencers even 
tougher. Szclle has been sidelined 
for nearly a month with a thumb 
injury while Mazur has left school 
due to illness. Szelle won the 2000 
sabre National Championship in 
his sophomore year while !\llazur 
was named a 2000 All-American 
as a freshman. 
"They were contenders," Auriol 
said. "They probably would be at 
the championship if they were 
fencing but we are still strong in 
sabre in men's and women's. But without those two, the Regionals were a bit more of a challenge." 
Junior Andre Crompton quali­fied in Szelle's spot while fresh­man Destanie Milo took Mazur's slot. Although Crompton has never qualified for the Championships before, he is an experienced fencer. 
"Andre Crompton wants to be in the championship," Auriol said. "He has been fencing for two years and never got there. The key is for him not to get too ner­vous and get the job done. He is a strong competitor and a great fighter. I think he is ready." 
Milo is one of two freshman qualifiers on the women's side. Foilist Maggie Jordan qualified in her first collegiate season as well. 
In a meet as pressure packed as the NCAAs. experience is impor­tant, according to assistant coach Janusz Bednarski. 
"We have a very young team in some wings like Destanie and some other fencers. We will see how they stand the pressure," he said. "It is big pressure to go for a national title. The one thing with young fencers is that they can jump above sometimes, we hope. It's true that if you don't have NCAA experience you can go both ways -up or down. It's hard to predict how the nervous system will stand the pressure but we hope they will fight like Fighting Irish." 
McCullough said it is nearly 
impossible for first time fencers to 
understand the pressure of the 
NCAA Championship. As a first 
time qualifier in 2000, 
McCullough said she didn't quite 
understand the importance of 
every bout. 

• 

''I didn't expect that every single bout means so much," she said. "Every time you go out there. you have to keep in mind that you have to do everything you can to win that bout. You can't lose the close ones. But cause if you lose a 5-4 bout, you have lost a lot for the team. Basically you haVfi to go out there and beat everyone you can and tally it up at the end." 
Luckily for the Irish, nine of the 12 fencers they send to the Championships fenced last year. The men's side returns a pair of first team All-Americans in .Jan Viviani and Ozren Debic. Debic finished second in foil at the 2000 Championships while Viviani took third in epee. 
The most experienced fencers on the men's side are Brian Casas and Andrzej Bednarski. Both fencers enter their third champi­onships with Bednarski winning All-American honors at his two previous Championships. 
Casas is fencing at the top of his game right now. After struggling at last year's Championships and most of this year, Casas won first place at the 2001 Midwest Conference and Regional Championships. He looks to have recaptured the form that earned him second team All-American honors as a freshman in 1999. 
The women's epee team returns a pair of sophomore All­Americans in Meagan Call and Anna Carnick. Sophomore All­American Liza Boutsikaris rounds out the women's team as the sec­ond foil qualifier. 
Notre Dame takes to the strips Thursday in Kenosha. Wisc. look­ing for its first national title since 1994. 
,
•-.I 

..., : .1s Sat 
. ...., . . 
. . 
, -~ 
J.c-. _­
-
I­
. ·•·.-~-­
~-~-.,. .
;;~h• •••., 

Getall the details, including acomplete schedule ofeventJ>t'ti · ·and-list of workshop.presenters and descriptions@nd.edu/---nglove 




page ::--_18=-=========---=-================-==============T,="h=e=O=b=re=rv=~r==.=S=P=O==R=T==S=========================:.========Ti=u=e=sd=a=y,=M=a=r::::ch==20=,=2=0=0=1 
TRACK
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish earn All­American honors 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Assuci,11c Spurt• E<lirnr 
It was an All-American weekend for the Notre Dame women's swim team. 
At last weekend's NCAA Swimming and Diving Championships, Heather Mattingly, Kelly !Iecking, and Marie Labosky each garnered Honorable Mention All­American honors. 
Mattingly qualified for the national meet by placing high enough at the NCAA Zone Diving Meet on March 9 and 10. She took third on the three-meter springboard and finished eighth on the one-meter springboard. 
At nationals, the junior diver began her weekend by plac­ing 24th in the one-meter competition. Mattingly earned her All-American status bv virtue of her 12th place finish on the thrne-metcr springboard. 
.Junior Kelly Hccking concluded her season with a solid finish in tho 100-and 200-yard backstroke events. Becking started her weekend by taking 18th in the 100-yard back­stroke. 1ler time, 55.37, was four-tenths or a second otT her school record 54.98 set at last month's Big East Championships. A day later, 1-lecking swam a 1:58.02 in the 200-yard backstroke, earning her a 13th place finish. 
In both backstroke races, the eventual champion, California freshman Natalie Coughlin, set an American record. 
Marie Labosky wrapped up a sensational freshman sea­son by turning in solid performances in her three events. Her weekend began with a 20th place finish in the 200­yard individual medley. Labosky earned her All-American honors with her performance in her best event, the 400­yard individual medley. The freshman placed 11th and swam 4:17 .06 in the consolation final. Labosky entered the final ranked 15th, but moved up four places and chopped nearly eight-tenths of a second off her preliminary time. 
The freshman wrapped up her weekend by finishing 31st in the 1,650-yard freestyle. Labosky swam 17 :03, well off her school record of 16:32 set at last month's Big East Championships. 
The NCAA Championships marks the conclusion of the season for the women's swimming and diving team. They finished 9-1 in the dual meet season and earned their fifth consecutive Big East title. 
Grow, Shay earn NCAA honors 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Editor 
Irish track stars Liz Grow and Ryan Shay had a unique destination in mind for last week's spring break -the NCAA Indoor Championships. 
Shay and Grow both earned All-American hon­ors at the national meet on March 9 and 10. The meet was held at the University of Arkansas. 
Grow had a solid weekend opener, placing sixth in the third preliminary heat of the 400-meter dash. She ran 53.42, her second fastest time of the season, and managed to qualify for Saturday's final. 
In the final, Grow didn't run as fast as she had Friday, She ended up finishing eighth with a time of 53.73, nearly four-tenths of a second of her school record 53.:t The junior finished 1.36 sec­onds behind champion Demetria Washington of South Carolina. 
However, Grow still secured All-American hon­ors. She became the first Notre Dame female sprinter and only the fourth female track athlete to earn such status. 
Meanwhile, Shay. who competed in his first indoor track and field championship meet, earned his fourth All-American distinction in the 5,000­meter run. Shay entered the 5,000 seeded fourth, but he finished ninth place. His time, 14:02.35, was about ten seconds off his school record 
13:52.66 time set a month and a half ago. Shay finfahed 20 seconds behind the eventual champi­on, Alabama's Uavid Kimani. 
This is the fourth time Shay has earned All­American status, but it is the first time he has garnered this honor at the indoor championships. He earned All-American distinction for the past two years at the outdoor championships in the 10,000 meters, and has also taken All-American honors in cross country. 
Both Shay and Grow have two weeks to prepare for the outdoor opener on March 30. The Irish sprinters and jumpers, including Grow, w111 most likely head to Arizona State. Meanwhile, Shay and a few other top distance runners will travel to Stanford. The rest of the Notre Dame track team will probably compete at Purdue. 
JI., JI LUM NI 

~....i'\_ £'1..ND/SMC 
Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College proudly announces its Fifth Annual GALA-ND/SMC Memorial Grants 
GALA-ND/SMC is now accepting applications for the Fifth Annual GAlA-ND/SMC Memorial Grants. Two $2,000.00 grants will be presented to students of Notre Dame and/or Saint Mary's College to honor leadership and to support the students' participation in a six­to eight-week summer service project benefiting the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered community. Projects at agencies providing services to individuals with HIV/AIDS or agencies providing services to gay and lesbian youth are encouraged. 
The deadline for applications is Wednesday, March 28, 2001. Grant applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns at Notre Dame, the SURV Office at Saint Mary's, or by e-mail request from: GALAND/SMC@aol.com. Names of grant recipients will be kept confidential pending their consent. 

Past winners have included students from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Grant winners have performed a variety of summer service projects including: the AIDS Project Los Angeles; the Massachusetts Attorney General's Office in Boston; Gay and Lesbian Advocates and Defenders in Boston; Better Existence with HN in the Chicago area; AIDS Referral & Information Services in San Jose, CA; performing civil rights research in Cape Town and Johannesburg, South Africa; and archiving a collection of lesbigay newspa­pers from a collection held at the University of California, Santa Cruz. 
It is anticipated that the grants will be conferred at the OUTreachND April Follies by representatives of GAL-ND/SMC on April 7, 2001 in South Bend/Mishawaka. 
The Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College is an independent 501 (c)(3) charitable organization with no official affiliation with either the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College. Our strength comes from our membership and our numbers. 

Retreat Information 
Monday, February 26 through March 26 
Sign-up Freshman Retreat #35 (March 30-31, 2001) Pick up applications at 114 Coleman-Morse Center or print one out online at 
www.nd.edul,-,ministrylfreshmanform.html 
Monday, March 5 through March 30 
Sign-up Senior Retreat #6 (April 6-7, 2001) Pick up applications at 114 Coleman-Morse Center or print one out online at 
www. nd. edul,-,ministrylseniorform.html 
Beginning Monday, March 19 through March 23 
Sign-up Senior Retreat #66 
(April 20-22, 2001) Pick up applications at 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
or print one out online at 
at www.nd.edu/,-,ministrylndeform.html 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
Monday-Tuesday, 19-20, 11:30 pm-10:00pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, March 20, 7:00 p.m.  
Badin Hall Chapel  
Campus Bible Study  
Tuesday, March 20, 7:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center, Room 330 Confirmation -Session #10  ~New Location!  
Wednesday, March 21, 10:00 p.m.  
Morrissey Hall Chapel  

Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Friday. March 23, 7:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Matt from M1V's The Real World 
Friday, March 23, 8:00 p.m. 
~New

Coleman-Morse, First Floor Lounge 
807 -A New Mass on Friday Nights Location ! 
Saturday, March 24, 10:00 a.m. -6 p.m. South Dining Hall & Coleman-Morse Center 
No Greater Love: a new half-day retreat filled with music, prayer and renewal. 
Friday-Saturday. March 23-24, 7:00 p.m. Fatima Retreat Center 
Marriage Preparation Retreat #4 
Sunday, March 25. 11 :45 a.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIAMass 
Sunday, March 25, 1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. J. Steele, csc 
iven the recent debate about the 
G Fa·1· th FAQS
Knights of Columbus' statue of the Madonna and Child, this is 
a good time to look again at the place of images in Christian worship. Notre 
? ( athoI·, c faCt' Dame is famous for several images which J mark the religious identity and purpose 
I> ~ f' a t h e. v-J. 5 t e. e. I e-, c-.(c-. of the University. From Our .----------------.------' Lady of the Lake (on the Dome) Wh d ( th 1· ( '\ to Our Lady of Lourdes (the 
Y O a OIn pray tO ,tat\leS! Grocco) to Christ the Teacher (Hesburgh Library) and many others, Notre Dame is visibly dedicated to the work of the Kingdom. 


As most of us know, the Main Building was built (some would say miraculously) in about 4 months in 1879 after a disastrous fire destroyed the previous building. The rapid construction was a testimony to spirit of Fr. Sorin and the devotion to Notre Dame by the Holy Cross Community, the alumni ofthe University and many Catholics especially in Chicago who were grateful to Notre Dame for its assistance in the wake of the Chicago fire. Originally, the present building did not have a dome. Some years later Fr. Sorin had the dome built against much opposition from within the community. It was argued that this was a frivolous expense especially when there were other pressing needs. Sorin went ahead anyway because he wanted to show the world "why we have 
been successful here."

~tattm and image\ of the iainn are reminden to mof the The dome is a tribute to 
Our Lady whose inrerces­

ongoing participation of the entire body of Chri~t, from the 
sio n helped him through 

Apoitlei to the pre~ent, in the building of the Kingdom. many a dark night. 
In a tradition which stretches back to the early Church, we Christians ask one an­other to pray for us in times ofneed. The bonds of friendship and communion we have in Christ do not end in death but are made stronger. Statues and images of the saints, then, are reminders to us ofthe ongoing participation of the entire body ofChrist, from the Apostles to the present, in the building of the Kingdom. 
The Statue of the Madonna and Child in memory of the victims of abortion is a powerful reminder of just who are the victims of abortion, both the mothers and their children. It is, moreover, a dedication of the cause for human life to Jesus and his Mother. In raising this image we Catholics recognize that the Kingdom is not possible through our efforts alone but through the power of prayer. This image recognizes the burden ofyoung women who are often afraid, as Mary was at the Ann uciation, and the hope for their emotional and spiritual healing which only the Lord can accomplish. 
Ever wonder why we as Catholics do what we do or believe what we believe? Please send us your questions, comments and suggestions to ministry.1@nd.edu. 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 20, 2001 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish rise to all-time high at No. 2 in national rankings 

hoYI V#asyouR Spring Break? 
This week, SUB will help you recover: Wednesday: 99 cent day @ Burger King Thursday: AcoustiCafe 9pm-11 :30pm @ the Huddle Friday: NAZZ battle of the bands @ Senior bar 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team is ranked second in the latest USJLtvSTX Division 1 rankings thanks to a 3-0 record against three top eastern schools over Spring Break. With wins against No. 8 Loyola. No. 9 Virginia and No. 24 Rutgers, the Irish earned their highest rank­ing ever. 
"That's pretty awesome. We have definitely never been that high before," goalie Kirk Howel1 said. "The question is if we can keep our heads during all this hype. It's going to be tough bul hopefully we can just concen­trate and i~nore what's going on around us. 
The three wins over break pushed Notre Dame's record to 5-0 on the season, with all five teams defeated ranked in the top 
25. 
After two wins against Penn State and Penn to open the sea­son, the Irish traveled to Piscataway. NJ to face Rutgers on March 9. Attack Tom Glatzel tied his career-high with five goals while the Notre Dame defense held the Scarlet Knights to less thalf 10 goals in the 9-4 Irish win. 
The Irish led 6-0 at halftime on four Glatzel goals and two by Steve Bishko. 
After the relatively easy win against Rutgers. Notre Dame traveled south to face national power and then-No. 7 Virginia. Notre Dame trailed in the third quarter for the third time this 
The Oscar Film Festival: 
1SS DeBartolo, $2, 8pm ,;,,. 
Monday-Forrest Gump ('95) Tuesday-Broveheart ('96) Wednesday-The English Patient(' 97) Thursday-Titanic ('981 Friday-Shakespeare in Love ('99) Saturday-American Beauty ('00) 
season but battled back to pick 
up an 11-8 win. The Irish also 
trailed the Quakers and the 
Nittany Llons in the third. 

"We have an experienced 
group," head coach Kevin 
Corrigan said about his team's 
ability to come from behind. 
"They aren't panicking or losing 
their poise. They understand it's 
a 60 minute game." 

John Flandina scored the 
fourth of his career-high four 
goals with 8:45 remaining in the 
third period to give Notre Dame 
a 6-5 lead. Flandina's goal start• 
ed a three-goal explosion for the 
Irish as David Ulrich and Steve 
Bishko followed Flandina with 
goals of their own. 

The win was the first for the 
Irish against Corrigan's alma 
mater but Corrigan said the vic­
tory against the Cavaliers was no 
more satisfying than any other 
win. 

'Tvc been gone for 13 years. 
You grow attached to the kids 
you are coaching now," he said. 
"That's my only thought. It 
wasn't something where I got 
emotional about it because I am 
completely involved with these 
guys and this team. That's my 
whole focus. It's satisfying 
because it's was a very good 
team we beat on the road and it 
was satisfying because it was a 
great win for this team and 
that's enough." 

The Irish closed the three­game trip through the east against Loyola. In a game that · Corrigan called the toughest of the trip, the Irish jumped out to a 7-3 halftime lead and never 
looked back. 
Movie of the Week: 
101 DeBartolo, S2 

Thusdny-10:30pm 
Friday & Saturday-8pm & 10:30pm 
UPCOMING EVENTS 

(tlx on sale at Lafortune Box Office) 3/27: Bobby Knight speaking @ Stepan Center 3/30: G·love live in concert@ Stepan Center 
"The Loyola game was tough­est because it was the end of the trip and our third game in 10 days," Corrigan said. "It was against a very good team -a team that doesn't lose in March -they have b~en very good at home and very good in the early Sl~ason." 
The win against the Greyhounds was the second straight for the Irish. Last spring, Notre Dame upset Loyola in the first round of the NCAA tourna• ment. The Greyhounds may have had revenge on their mind but Notre Dame's early lead put an end to those thoughts, according to Corrigan. 
"They came in with an idea that they wanted to pay us back a little bit but at the same time. once you get past a certain point in the game, you settle down and get past all that," he said. "That was there early but we still jumped out to an early load on them so I don't think that was a big factor." 
What was a big factor in both the wins against Virginia and Loyola was the play of Howell. The third-yard starter made 18 saves against Loyola and 14 against Virginia. 
"lie did keep us in the game," Corrigan said. "I don't want to take anything away from our guys, we made enough plays to win but we made a lot more mis­takes than you are normally going to get away with. Kirk was there to erase a lot of those mis­takes." 
Notre Dame faces its first chal­lenge to its top ranking Saturday against Hofstra in New York. 

Tuesday, March 20, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
BASEBALL / 
Irish end break undefeated 

By JEFF BALTRUZAK Assisr,m Sporrs Ediror 
Eight. 7-0-1. 13-2-1, 1959. 600. 
The eighth-ranked Notre Dame baseball team finished their California road trip over spring break with a 7 -0-1 record on their way to winning the Pepsi/Johnny Quik Classic in Fresno. 
The Irish are now 13-2-1 overall, their best 16-garne start since the 1959 squad \.vent 14-2. 
To top it off, head coach Paul Mainieri captured his 600th career victory on Saturday, directing the Irish, who wore green jerseys to mark St. Patrick's Day, past Portland State 7-6 to win the Classic. 
"I don't think about [my 600th win] much," said Mainieri. "But I'm proud of it because it shows what outstanding play­ers and assistant coaches we have." 
But for a brief moment in the eighth inning on Saturday, it looked as if Mainieri might have to wait on his mile­stone win. The Irish Ind 3-1 he:,1ding into Portland State's at bat in the top of the eighth, but the Pilots strung together four rum, on starting pitcher Danny Tamayo. 
Portland State had the bases loaded with one out when Pilot first b.aseman Steve Chamberlain tripled to right center, scoring three. Tamayo got Kory Casto to ground out for the second out. but was replaced by sophomore reliever Brandon Viloria, who closed out the inning after walking the first batter he faced. 
Staring down a 5-3 deficit with just six outs remaining, the Irish offense respond­ed by matching Portland State's four runs, with the rally starting from the bot­tom of the order. After junior third base­man Andrew Bushey was hit by Pilot pitcher Justin Ballweber and Ken Meyer singled, the stage was set for freshman second baseman Steve Sollmann. 
Sollmann doubled to left center, scoring Bushey and Meyer to knot the champi­onship game at 5-5. 
Sollmann had his first home run in an Irish uniform earlier in the game, when he crushed a ball over the 400-ft. mark in centerfield off starter Kyle Corra. 
,----------------------------------------~ 
"Steve Sollmann had a tremendous week," said Mainieri. "He hit in the
ISSA Presents the 3rd Annual 
clutch well." 
Catcher Paul O'Toole, hitting out of the second 

International Week, 
Tuesday, March 20th -Saturday, March 24th 
slot, contributed another .-·~.,.,.. 
two run double when he 
i ,,. < Come and enjoy a week of international 
took a Zach Yarbourgh pitch into left center,

cultural displays, entertainment, andfood! 
bringing home Sollmann and leadoff hitter Steve Stanley and changing the 

Free for everyone! 
scoreboard to read 7-5. 

"For Steve to go out there and have the tournament he did was outstanding," said O'Toole. "He didn't back down from any­one." 
Portland State got one more run in the top of the ninth frame, but it would not be enough as Viloria buckled down to secured the two final outs of the tourna­ment. 
"By no means did we expect to win the tournament," said O'Toole. "Every game was a battle, but we knew we had the ability to win it all ... It's very hard to string together seven strong games in a row." 
Stanley was named tournament MVP in a close race with Sollmann. All-American starting pitcher Aaron Heilman, who had a complete game victory over Illinois on Friday night to power the Irish to their matchup with Portland State was named to the all-tournament team. 
"The key for us the whole week was our starting pitching," said Mainieri. "And our defense was spectacular." 
Heilman owns a perfect 5-0 record, with a 1.66 ERA. Tamayo is 2-1 in his five starts, and Notre Dame received quality starts from Peter Ogilvie and J.P. Gagne during the week. 
Mainieri was able to make the call to 
his bullpen confidently as well, with 
Viloria and Mike Naumann throwing 
effectively. Viloria has the lowest oppo­
nents' batting average of any Irish pitch­
ers, with batters hitting just .167 against 
him. 
Heilman received plenty of ·run support 
in the 9-5 victory over the Illini, with 
offensive production coming from Stanley, 
Bushey, Kris Billmaier and cleanup hitter 
Brian Stavisky, all of whom had multi-hit 
performances at the plate. 
Earlier in the week, the Irish collected 
extra-inning victories over Miami of Ohio 
3-2 and host Fresno State 5-4. 
Stavisky hit the Irish's first grand slam 
of the season versus Fresno State, clear­
ing the bases in the sixth. Sollmann and 
Stanley tag-teamed to set up the final 
Irish run in the tenth frame, as Sollmann 
took off on a hit and run and Stanley 
poked a single through the left side. 
Sollmann was able to take third on the 
play, and scored when O'Toole singled to 
end the game. 
"You have to win those one-run games," 
said O'Toole. "Being in extra inning 
games helps build character." 
The Irish were 1-0-1 in their first two 
games of the Classic, shutting out New 
Mexico 3-0 and tying Navy 4-4. The Navy 
game was left undecided due to a tourna­
ment rule that did not allow new innings 
to start after the 2 hour and 50 minute 
mark. 
Schedule of Events: 
FIRST YEAR STUDENTS 
Tuesday, March 20  = OPENING DAY= TRIVIA CONTEST -Prove your knowledge ofthe World! 12 Noon -LaFortune Student Center INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL -Maborosi (Japan, 1996) 7 PM and 9 PM -Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center  
Wednesday, March 21  MATINEE -International Film Festival -BulgarianAnimation ­2 PM -Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center  
Thuriday, March 22  BOOKREADINGS -International Women's Club -Readings from International Literature -3:30 PM -5:00 PM -Hammes Bookstore  
Friday, March 23  DAY I-INTERNATIONAL VILLAGE­9AM -5PM -LaFortune Student Center (1st and 2nd Floors) INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL ·DOUBLE FEATURE Waking Ned Devine (Ireland, 1998) ­6 PM -Montgomery Theatre, LaFortwle Student Center Leningrad Cowboys Go America (Finland/Sweden. 1989)­8 PM -Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center INTERNATIONAL SPORTS TOURNAMENT­7PM -1OPM -Rolfs Sports Center  
Saturday, March 24  DAY 2 -INTERNATIONAL VILLAGE ­9 AM-3 PM-LaFortune Student Center (I st and 2nd Floors) CULTURE FEST-Dances, Poetry Recitals, Songs & more 7:30 PM-? -Hesburgh Library Auditoriwn  
For up-to-date information, visit our web site at: http:/ /www.nd.edu/~issa  

BOUND FOR ARTS &LETTERS NEXT YEAR? CONSIDER AMAJOR IN ENGLISH FOR MORE INFORMATION 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT http://www.nd.edu/-english/Undergrad-2000.html 
OR VISIT OUR OFFICES 
356 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL
Sponsored by: International Student Services and Activities 
204 LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(all 1.6618 For An Appointment
Phone: (219)631-3825 E-mail: issa@nd.edu 
http://www.nd.edu/~issa 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 20, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame quietly celebrates victory 
This time, the celebration was not excessive. 
Morn than 18 months after Bobby Brown's infamous fraternity gesture led to a key p1malty during the football team's heartbreaking 26-22 loss to Michigan. Mulfot McGraw raised her two index lin­gers towards the Joyce Center crowd after Monday night's 88-54 win over the Wolveritws. 
That was it. No taunting, no scrnaming, no :;howboat­ing. 
Just a sig­nal. a signal McGraw hopes to flash once again six days from now in Denver.nd then again on April 1 in St.Louis. 
Bob Davie has not yet claimed "it is what it is," Clifford Jefferson has not boastPd that he will record two interceptions per game in 2001, and Troy Murphy has not announced his intentions for next season. 
So, for the next few days (and possibly weeks), Notre Dame Nation is "stuck" with Riley, Ivey and Company. 
"I think they can win it all," Michigan coach Sue Guevara said on Monday. "I don't think there's any doubt about that." 
No surprise there. All season, coaches, players, and "experts" have pegged the IrL'ih as perennial national champions. And deserved­ly so. 
But to just watch at the games on the annual IrL'ih and Italian holi­days and assume Notre Dame is the team to beat is absurd. 
Sure, the Irish embarrassed Alcorn State and Michigan. But one school's claim to fame begins and ends with Steve McNair and the other is best known for the second­best college light song. 
Nothing new really emerged from the victories. Ruth Riley is the best women's player in the coun­try, Niele Ivey is the team leader, Kelley Siemon is greatly improved, Jeneka Joyce and Alicia Ratay arc deadly perimeter shooters, and the b<mch provides more depth than in past ynars. 
Yada, yada. yada. 

"C'mon, let's just give Notre Dame a great deal of credit," Guevara said. "We tried to throw everything that we possibly could and they responded to everything we threw at them. They have a lot, a lot of weapons." 

Let's just give Guevara a job in the Notre Uame public relations office. 

That's not to say that the Irish do not deserve the praise. They do. Tennessee is without its best play­er and Connecticut is without its best two, so Notre Dame is one of the tournament favorites. 
These next two weekends will provide the ultimate setting. 

These next two weekends will also show whether this year's Irish team can handle the ultimate pres­sure. Last year, Notre Dame opened up a 17-0 lead against Texas Tech in the Sweet Sixteen but eventually lost. Nineteen days earlier. in the Big East tournament semifinals, the Irish led Hutgers by nine with lour minutes left. before losing in overtime. 
When the pressure heated up, the Irish melted like South Bend snow. 

So far this season, the Irish have had only one sub-par pei'formance, the 54-53 loss to Rutgers. They beat top-ten teams Purdue and Georgia early in the year, do(!linat­ed Connecticut on Jan. 15, and hung with the Huskies on their home court earlier this month. 
What's the difference between 2000 and 2001? 

"We're a lot more poised," Riley said. "Having the experience, knowing that what happened last year can happen again. We're not overlooking anyone." 
Said Ivey, "We're a lot more mentally focused this year. In the past, we would panic when we were down. No one would really step up. Last year we were looking around, waiting for somebody else to do what we often do as a team. That says a lot for our chemistry that we built this year." 
Chemistry, intangibles, focus, 'stepping up'. These terms cannot be measured and serve as typical clichcs. And they had little to do with this past weekend's dominat­ing performances. But when the Irish match up with a comparable squad, a team with similar or superior talent, the oft-repeated slogans become somewhat impor­tant. 
"I just can't say enough about this team," Ivey said. "We're just having a lot of fun right now." 
Maybe the fun will continue. 

Two more wins and the Irish will advance to their second Final Four in live years. 
Two more wins and Niele Ivey will return to her hometown. Two more wins and the entire team will celebrate. Excessively. 

The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


ECDC Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center, located at the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, is now accepting 2001 Summer Registration for children ages three through six and 2001-2002 School Year Registration for children ages two through five. Both part time and full time enrollment schedules are available. For more information, please call one of the numbers below. 
Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
Please call · 
631-3344 or 


....:;,..::~-·,~· 284-4693 
Wolllen 

continued from page 28 
"She talked about working hard on defense every day in practice because that's some­thing that she really needs to improve on," McGraw said. "I thought today she did a great job in the zone." 
Amanda Barksdale continued her postseason surgn for the Irish. Following her lirst carenr double-double in Notre Dame's round one victory over Alcorn State, the sophomore con­tributed five points and seven rebounds in 15 minutes. 
The biggest cheers of the night came when sophomore walk-on Karen Swanson stepped on the floor with 3:09 remaining. With Swanson's jump shot in tlrn ganrn's final minute, each Notre Dame play­er has scored in every Irish game so far in this NCAA tour­nament. 
"I was not happy with the bench early in the season and they have really worked hard to prove me wrong," McGraw said. "That's the kind of' attitude that this team has. They don't quit.." 
While the Michigan coach credits the Irish defense, she was disappointed in her team's inability to find the basket. 
"You don't have to be a grad­uate of Michigan or Notre Dame to look at the stat sheet and see f'ive-for-33 from your l'ive starters is going to be really tough," Guevara said. 
Only six Wolverines played significant minutes in the game, a factor that proved deadly in the game's final minutes. With Notre Dame using its deep bench and playing successful in the transition. Michigan just couldn't keep up. 
"That's what happens when you're trying to stop transition," Guevara said. "You work your tail off and you get tired." 
Tuesday, March 20, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Men 
continued from page 28 
Missed shots turned into missed opportunities for an Irish squad that had earned a berth in the tournament's sec­ond round Friday with effective shooting against Xavier. 
With 7: 11 remaining and the Hnbnls leading 47-46, Murphy, 
· who Jed the Irish with 17 points, took the ball to the bas­ket with a classic dunk, but instead of getting the go-ahead bucket, the ball clanged off the rim and turned into a basket for the Rebels at the other end of the court. "This is what you play for," llumphrey said. "And we just didn't make plays when it counted." The Irish missed on their next two possessions as the Rebels extended their lead to five, but two free throws from Carroll brought the Irish back within a possesion for the tie. Humphrey, who started the game with three airballs and three turnovers, quickly turned up the heat, grabbing a crucial bucket and drawing the foul. Just 52.1 percent from the line, Humphrey nailed the shot to tie the game at 51 with 5:09 on clock. Humphrey went on to score the next four points for the Irish, giving the squad a one­point 55-54 lead with 1 :20 remaining. If Lockhart kept the Rebels in the game with his seemingly­c on ti no us baskets, Jason Harrison delivered Ole Miss the win. With 46 seconds left to go 
and the shot clock nearing zero, the point guard connected on a long 3-point shot to give the Rebels their final lead, 57­55. 
"It was one of those shots·you dream about," Harrison said. "I knew I had to make a play because I hadn't made one in a while and I felt like I was let­ting my team down." 
Irish point guard Martin Ingelsby left Harrison open for the shot, backing up, expecting penetration from the point guard whose shooting had suf­fered of late. 
"They've had a lot of heroes all season and they had anoth­er one tonight with that shot from the top," Brey said. " ... I'll live with that [shot]. I thought we did a great job defending. That's not who he's been. He knocks down an NBA 3 and I can't be upset with that. He's a fearless young man." 
The Irish had an opportunity with 24.5 remaining to tic when Humphrey found himself under the basket with an easy lay-up. The ball rolled out, however, and after trading foul shots at each end of the court the Sanders came up with the block that effectively ended the game. 
"I don't think that shot Jost the game," Humphrey said. "I can't hold my head down for it. We play as a team." 
The loss is bittersweet for an Irish squad that has come so far and accomplished so much this season. With Brey at the helm for just one season, the Irish finished with a 20-10 record, a Big East West division championship and their first NCAA Tournament berth in 11 years. 

NAZzoo1 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish earn wins over break 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team concluded a suc­cessful spring break trip with an 8-3 win at Harvard on Sunday, as the Irish beat the Crimson for the first time in three meetings. Senior La:el O'Shaughnessy led the Irish attack with two goals and three assists, while sophomore goaltender Jen White made 14 saves, while allowing just three goals. Notre Dame improves to 3-1 with its third win of the week-long trip and returns to action when it opens its home schedule with a 1:00 p.m. game against Denver on Sun., March 25. 
Notre Dame broke a 2-2 tie with the final two goals of the first half and then scored the first four goals of the second half to build an 8-2 lead with less than a minute in the game. Harvard led 1-0 before O'Shaughncssy and sophomore Danielle Shearer scored twice in 20 seconds to give the Irish a 2-1 lead. The Crimson tied the game, but juniors Natalie Loftus and Maureen Henwood scored back-to-back goals to put Notre Dame ahead 4-2 at halftime. 
Freshman Kassen Delano and O'Shaughnessy each scored in the first five minutes of the second half, as the Irish pulled ahead 6-2. Neither team could fincl the net until sopho­more Kelley Mccardell scored with 1:39 remaining in the game. Junior Alissa Moser closed out the scoring for the Irish. 
Notre Dame's defense held Harvard scoreless for a span of 
28:23 until the Crimson scored the game's final goal with 27 seconds left for the 8-3 final margin. Notre Dame held a slight 23-22 edge in shots but a career-high 14 saves by White paced the Irish to the win. 
On Saturday. the Notre Dame women's lacrosse team built a 6-2 halftime·lead and held on to beat host Boston College 8­
7. Shearer led the Irish with three goals, and Loftus scored both of Notre Dame's second half goals to provide the deci­sive scoring for the Irish. 
Shearer scored her first goal just 42 seconds in the game on an assist from O'Shaughnessy, and the pair combined again later for a 2-0 lead. After the Eagles scored their first goal, the Irish scored three goals in a span of 2:59 -one each from O'Shaughnessy, sopho­more Angela Dixon Alissa Moser -for a 5-1 lead. Shearer's third goal at 6:20 put Notre Dame ahead 6-1 before a late goal pulled Boston College within 6-2 at halftime. 
Neither team could find the net in the second half until Loftus scored the first of back­to-back goals at 15:03 and recorded the eventual goal­winning goal 34 seconds later to give the Irish an 8-2 lead. Boston College then began its comeback with two goals to pull within 8-4. The Eagles scored at 1 :32 for 8-5 and make it 8-6 with 39 seconds left. Boston College then scored with 10 seconds remaining to cut the lead to 8-7, but Irish senior Sarah Lesueur won the ensuing draw to allow Notre Dame to run out the clock for the win. 
White played all 90 minutes in goal for the Irish and made 11 saves. Notre Dame had a 26-23 advantage in shots. 
On Tuesday, March 13, the Notre Dame women's lacrosse used three goals each from four different players to beat host Virginia Tech 19-8, and win its Big East opener in the first year of Big East women's lacrosse. The Irish, who out­shot the Hokies 31-19 in the contest. led 6-1 just 15 minutes into the game and held a 12-4 halftime advantage. Senior and preseason all-Big East selec­tion O'Shaughnessy had a goal and five assists for Notre Dame. 
"We are pleased with the way we played," said Irish head coach Tracy Coyne. "We want to be competitive in the Big East, and for us to play this well and this well on the road is very encouraging. We still have room for improvement in many aspects of our game but this is a great start to our first Big East season." 


A ROCK ODYSSEY 
Friday,. March 23 Alumni Senior Club 8:00pm -1:OOpm$2 in advance 
at LaFun box office 
$4 at the door 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 20, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame adjusts for NCAA tournament appearance 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Edicor 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Shaking up the starting lineup following mid-January losses to Kentucky and Seton Hall geared Notrn Da1m~ up for an eight-game winning streak. But aflnr the Irish endured their only three-game slidf' of' tlrn season. head coach Mike Brny figured rni11serting David Cravos into the starling five might get the Irish going again. 
It did, and just in time for Notre Dame's first NCM Tournament appearance in 1 I vears. 
"We made an a.djustmont in the lineup," Brey said, "and that cer­tainly helped us." 
Graves grooved to 13 first-half poinl'i and the Irish (20-9 heading into Sunday's game) jigged to an 83-71 win over Xavier (21-8) in the opening round of the Big Dance Fridav. 
Graves. a junior. and sophomore guard Matt Carroll possessed the Midas touch, as putting the ball in their hands was like finding the pot of gold at the end of the rain­bow. The backcourt pair put 16 of 18 shol'i through the hoop for 41 points, Carroll leading the way with 21. 
"I was shooting the ball well all week," Graves said. "The easier shots you take, the higher percent­ages you have." 
The Musketeers have felt the dagger of Graves· long-range shot before. A year ago, he sliced Xavier's hopes of an NIT title with 21 first-half points. But Xavier hadn't really been bitten by Carroll. who scored 13 in last season's showdown. 
Both years, the Irish ended the Musketeers' season in 2000 with a dozen-point margin of victory, in 2000 in the second round of the NIT, in 2001 in the first game of the NCAAs. 
The Irish entered the tourney after an early exit in the Big East Tournament and two regu­lar-season losses, leading many pundiL'i to predict a short trip to March Madness. The "experts" picked 11th-seeded Xavier to upset Notre Dame. seeded sixth in the Midwest Region, but the Irish were having none of the quick trip home they experi­enced by losing to Pittsburgh in the Big East Tournament. 
"After we lost in the Big East Tournament," said senior point 
The '.'lortlmcstcrn l'nhcrsi~· C'olleJ.:c Pref)anttion Program is lookinl( for 
Counselors 
to work this summer. 
We're hiring "Resident Advisers" to help guide high school students from around the nation through a summer of learning and fun al Northwestern. 
Qualified candidates must have com­pleted their sophomore year of college by the start of the program (June I J, 2001) and should have 
a desire to work with high school students 
a consistent record of academic achievement 
strong oral and written 
communication skills 
exccllcnl interpersonal skills (both in group and one-on-one situations) 
time-management ski!Is leadership skills 
problem-solving skills 
a wide range ofextracurricular interests 
For an application e-mail: 
ccoJe(ajnorthwcstcrn.cdu 
NORTHWESTERN 
VNl\'ERSITY 

guard Martin lngelsby, "we knew it was one-and-done." 
Instead of being done after one game lngelsby helped his team­mates score by dishing off nine assists. They did it with the kind of balance Brey had envisioned at the snason's start when he displayed the even scoring distribution of Notre Dame's 1978 Final Four team. the only uric in school histo­
ry. 

Junior forwards Troy Murphy. an All-American. and Ryan Humphrey, a Big East third team selection, did their part. They com­bined to add 34 pointc; to the Irish scoreboard along with 14 rebounds, although Murphy was just G-for-17 from the field. 
"Murphy's a disadvantage to just about anybody in the country b~cause you have to pay so much attention to him," said Xavier coach Skip Prosser. "Sometimes you've got to pick your poison." 
The balanced box score and razor-sharp 63 percent shooting gave the Irish an NCAA Tournament victory for the first time since 1989. · 
Xavier opened the game with a six-point lead before Notre Dame got its juices flowing. The Irish put together a 22-3 run, keyed by Carroll driving deep twice for a lay-up and finger roll, Graves knocking down a 3-pointer and two lay-ups and Murphy hitting a fall-away jumper and throwing down a slam dunk for an exclama­tion point. 
"The spurt in the first half," Prosser said, "we had 12 points for a long time." 
The Musketeers never recov­
ered. 

The closest they came to catch­ing the Irish was a seven-point deficit late in the first half follow­ing two 3-pointers by Kevin Frey, his only points of the game. 
But after Ingelsby and David West. the Atlantic 10 Player of the Year, traded baskets, it was all Irish. Carroll's troy from the left b,rselinc rolled through the rim and a steal by Graves turned into a Harold Swanagan lay-in. 
Carroll capped olT the first peri­od by dribbling around defenders for an inside-the-arc jumper at the buzzer to give Notre Dame a 40-26 lead. 
After stil1ing the Musketeers' o!Tense in the first half. all the Irish needed to do to win was hold on. That was a cinch, with the Irish shooting 70 percent in the second stanza. 
"We took care of the ball pretty well today," Carroll said. "Shooting the ball pretty well kind of helps out on oflense. too." 
Defensively. Notre Dame kept both Frey and senior point guard Maurice McAfee in single digits. The sophomore West led his squad with 19. 
Humphrey made the Musketeers pay down the stretch with three jams in the final two minutes to complement Murphy's pair of dunks on the day. Murphy fed Humphrey two of the dunks and Carroll dished him a pass which Humphrey finished off by slam­ming the reverse dunk through the hoop two-handed behind his head. 
The Irish gladly took the dunks as well as the two-day extension to their season. 


LIFE lNTHE REALWORLD 
6etthe inside story on 
life, faith, &Relationships 
from }\'Iilt t uf}\'rf'I I ~ 
with opening concert by DANIELLE ~KORICH &6ARY DAl6LE new orleans ityle reception to follow 
Tuesday, March 20, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
IRISH INSIGHT 
Ole Miss experience leads to win over Notre Dame 



KANSAS CITY, Missouri 

The Ole Miss men's basket­ball program is one step ahead of Notre Dame's, and the Rebels remained one pace ahead of 
the Irish on Sunday. 
Ole Miss, making its fourth NCAA Tourn­ament appear­


ance in the Kathleen past five 
O'Brien 
seasons, had expe­
Associate

rience in its corner. Sports Editor Wide­body senior center Rahim Lockhart entered this year's Tournament with two past tourneys under his belt, and he used his seasoning to give the Irish fits with 24 points and seven rebounds. Fellow Rebel seniors Jason Flanigan and Jason Holmes also were two-year veterans of March Madness, and each played a part in wearing down the Irish. The Irish looked like rookies to the NCAA Tournament experience. They shot a sur­prising 29 percent from the field after a red-hot 63 per­cent touch in the opening round. They managed only six assists and missed several layups, including one in the final minute by Ryan Humphrey. Maybe the Irish played awk­wardly because they didn't recognize the territory. March Madness is a phrase used much more often with women's basketball at Notre Dame in recent years. The men's squad hadn't made the tourney since 1990, and Humphrey, a transfer from Oklahoma, was the only player to have known the Madness. The Irish hadn't even dreamed of advancing to the Sweet 16, which is what they were playing for against the Rebels, in years. The Rebels played out their one-gait edge on the Irish by recalling coach Rod Barnes harp about playing defense throughout their careers. "If you don't guard," Barnes said, "you're coming out." Stifling opponents is a trade­mark for Barnes' teams in the SEC. "The whole year, we pride ourselves on defense," Lockhart said. "We feel like that's the way you win cham­pionships. That was the differ­ence in the game -we came up with the stops we needed to." The Irish knew defense was a priority entering the game. "We're the type of team that we know we can score and play with anyone in the coun­try," said senior captain Martin Ingelsby, "but we need defense to make everything work and it makes it more fun." But the Irish have only had Mike Brey beating defense 
into their brains since July, and the mentality wasn't quite as deeply ingrained in their instincts as it was for the Rebels. 
So in the last minute, with the Rebels up by two, the Irish met their match. The high­scoring Notre Dame offense found itself on a rare off day from the field going up against a team that knew how to get the final stop. 
Ole Miss blocked Notre Dame's last opportunity as 6­foot-3 guard David Sanders swatted Notre Dame from the Sweet 16 bracket. Irish sopho­more Matt Carroll, Notre Dame's best post feeder, went up as if to take a 3-point shot he had hit from the same spot against Xavier. But he'd been cold shooting against Ole Miss. so when he saw Humphrey down low, he went for the pass inside. which Sanders slapped away and into Lockhart's hands. 
"We're a defensive team first," Sanders said. "Defense is what got us here." 
Notre Dame didn't play poorly on defense, limiting its opponent to just 59 points, 13 below Ole Miss's average. But the Rebels played spectacular­ly. They held two-time All­American Troy Murphy to 17 points on 4-of-16 shooting, and stifled Carroll and David Graves into a combined 2-for­17 from the field. 
And just as suddenly as Sanders appeared for the steal, the one sure thing for Notre Dame, its ability to score, vanished. 
"Defensively, we gave our­selves every chance to win the basketball game," Brey said. 
Ole Miss also had more fresh faces to look to than did the Irish. Nine players logged at least eight minutes of playing time for the Rebels, while only six did the same for the Irish, five of whom played 29 min­utes or more. 
Come 2002, the Rebels may be no peers for the Irish. 
Should Murphy. a junior, decide to return for his senior season at Notre Dame, the Irish would be loaded with veterans. They would have all their key players back save Ingelsby at the point, who will be replaced by McDonald's All-American Chris Thomas, trading sheer talent for sea­soning and on-court savvy. 
And they'll have another year beneath Brey, marking the first time in four years an Irish team has known stability and played for the same coach two straight seasons. 
It took just one season to take the Irish from NIT run­ner-ups to one shot away from the Sweet 16. Imagine the Irish after one more year emphasizing defense with a year of tourney experience to draw from. 
One more year, and the out­come might have "luck of the Irish" written all over it. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
IPlease Recycle The Observer. j 
rate w1U rcvcn to the highest prime lcmlmg rate of the previous 4uaner. Minimum amount is $5,000, maximum amount is $100,000. ··· LENDER 

page 26 

The Observer . SPORTS 
Tuesday, March 20, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish roll over Alcorn State in 98-49 victory 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Spurn; Editor 

All it look for the 8,553 fans in the Joyrn Center to orupt into cheers vvas thn Irish removing their warm-ups. 
They saw the Irish wearing green uniforms. 
"There must have been some luck of the Irish whim we unpacked those uniforms," said Nolro Dame head coach Muffet 
McGraw. No.1 sccdnd Notre Dame was 
simply loo tall. too deep and too good for No.16 seeded Alcorn State as they rolled to a 98-49 victory Saturday after­
noon. 

The Irish wern allowed to wear their green uniforms thanks to a special arrange­
ment with the NCM. Normally, the higher-seeded team must wear home jerseys and the lower-seeded team must wear away jerseys. But Alcorn State's away uniforms and Notre Dame's home uniforms were both gold, so the NCAA allowed the Irish to wnar green, fittingly on St. Patrick's 
Day. 

It was obvious from the opening tip that Notre Dame had a huge height advantage. The Irish had six players as tall as Alcorn State's tallest player, Cherea Wood. Notre Dame completely dominated the inside game. They had 54 points in the paint -led by Huth Riley's 16 -compared to 
just four for Alcorn State and the Irish out-rebounded the Braves 62-34. 
"The height was a big disad­vantage," said Alcorn State head coach Shirley Walker. 
The Braves tried to take away the Irish size advantage by pulling away from the bas­ket, forcing Notre Dame to guard the perimeter. But the strategy backfired as Alcorn State. who took more three­point shots than two pointers, shot a dismal 21 percent from the field, finishing 15-71 and 9­41 from three-point range. 
"We just missed a lot of shots," said Wood, who shot 4­for-24 from the field and was 0-for-6 from three-point land. Wood, the Braves' top scorer, entered the game averaging 
17.7 poinl'i per game. She fin­ished with just nine points Saturday. 
The Braves ~ave the Irish an 

Ti:JRtiff~1
-

early scare when they jumped out to a 10-6 lead early in the first halt'. Notre Dame then went on a 20-3 run to jump ahead, but the Hraves. relying on Tarcsha Coleman's shoot­ing, kept the game close. Coleman led the Braves with 15 points. 
"We jumped out pretty good in the first few minutes," Walker said. 
The Irish took control with 
G:57 left in the first half when thev switched from their tradi­tional 2-3 zone defense to a man-to-man defense. The Braves managed only one free throw the rest of the half and didn't hit a field goal until 
14:24 remained in the second half. During that span, the Irish outscored the Braves 29­3. 
"Their shooting really sur­prised us and forced us out of the zone, which we didn't real­ly want to come out of." said McGraw. "When we went m·an­to-man l thought we stepped up defensively better. I was a little disappointed I didn't go to it earlier." 
The Irish had far too much depth for the Braves to handle. Five players scored in double­digits and nobody played more than 30 minutes for the Irish. All 12 players on the Irish ros­ter scored at least two points. 
Sophomore Amanda Barksdale had the best game of her career. She registered a double-double by scoring 10 points and grabbing 11 rebounds. The Irish also got some quality minutes from freshman Le'Tania Severe, who finished with four points. 
"It is fun to watch the bench," Riley said. "We see how hard they work in practice everyday, and it was good to see them be able to show that on the floor." 
Nowhere was this more obvi­ous than when sophomore walk-on Karen Swanson made a difficult five-foot baseline shot. As Swanson, who finished with a career-high four points, ran down the court arms in the air, the Irish bench was on their feet laughing. 
The Irish finished shooting 54 percent from the field. Kelly Siemon finished with 13 points and nine rebounds, while Ericka Haney and Alicia Ratay chipped in 14 points and 13 points, respectively. Niele Ivey led the Irish with nine assists. 
TIM KACMARfThe Observer 
Karen Swanson rushes down the court In the Irish 98-49 victory over No. 16 Alcorn State during the first round of NCAA tournament play. 

OLY SSOCIATES 
Information Meeting 
.. Wednesday, March 21st n 
II.II 7pm-8pm II.II 
Center for Social Concerns 
Do you want to volunteer after graduation? Come learn more about post-grad service and Holy Cross Associates. 
We will also be having our 'Placement Opportunities' meeting next week, on Tuesday, March 27th. This will focus on the different 
2000-2001 Holy Cross Associates from Notre Dame placements within HCA. 
Applications are now being accepted, with placement priority given to those received by April 1st. (Applications available on-line.) 
Associates are eligible for AmeriCorps Education Awards and Loan Determents. The Education Award is $4,725 towards loans and/or future education. 
erving in Arizona, California, Colorado, Massachusetts, Oregon, and Pennsylvania 
://www.nd.edu/,..hcassoc/ 

Tuesday, March 20, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 33 Alien landings, 65 Small dog, 
TUESDAY, MARCH 20, 2001 
1 Wedding telepaths, etc. informally 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON one who won your heart. Your
entertainers 35 Computer key 66 Isinglass 
THIS DAY: Carl Reiner, Mr. generous nature will be most
5 Wine containers 37 Italian deane 67 Egg size 
Rogers, William Hurt, Holly appreciated. 000 10 Like fine wine 38 Betty Haynes in 68 Makes angry 
Hunter, Jerry Reed, Hal Linden, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 14 "Your tum," to a "White 69 Labor leader Bobby Orr, Pat Riley, Spike Lee, Don't limit yourself. You don't 
5-Down Christmas· I. W. Tanya Boyd have to prove yourself to anyone. Happy Birthday: Your ideas Go in a direction that sparks an
15 Cheerless 43 First czar of 70 Ceased 
are good, so don't waste time; interest in you. You need to meet
Russia

16 Trout's home 71 Mailed 
follow your instincts and accom­new people and pursue new
44 Like sauerkraut

17 Leon Uris's plish what you set out to do. activities. 000 
" 1a· and strudel DOWN Don't let petty differences in LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 18 On "E" 45 Ingredient 1 Its port Is known your personal life get you down. Leadership can be yours if you're 48 Bankrupt If you go about your business, willing to put additional work
19 "You got that as the Gateway 
you can bypass much of the anxi­into organizations you belong to.
right!" 49 Great respect to India 
ety that the people around you Concentrate on making yourself 
20 Sherlock 52 Antlered animal 2 Pilot 
are going through. You can make the best that you can be. A new 
Holmes in "The 53 Batman and 3 Ozzie or Harnet personal changes, but be pre­outlook is in order. 00000 Woman in Robin, e.g. 4 Sink feature pared to live with your decisions. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):Green" 55 Old-timer 5 Many a trucker Your numbers: 4, 17, 20, 26, 34, 39 Take a breather. Stress and pres­23 When to return ARIES (March 21-April 19): sure at home may have worn
57 Blanche 6 mater 
from lunch, Someone from your past will you ragged. You have done all
Devereaux in 7 Back-to-school 
inspire you to proceed with your you can to sort things out at a
mayoe TV's "The time: Abbr. 
usual energetic charisma. Allies personal level. Now all you can
24 "_-hoo!" Golden Girls" 
8 Oscar winner will come to your aid to help you doiswait.00 
25 _ Beta Kappa 62 Close to closed Bates meet your deadlines. 0000 SAGITfARIUS (N°" 22-Dec. 21): 
28 Hankering 64 Gentleman 9 V.I.P.'s seating TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll meet interesting people if 
29 Place holders callers locale You'll have problems finishing you attend reunions. Don't hesi­what you start if you overload tate to present your ideas to those 
10 Fed chairman 
your plate. Try to enlist the help in a position to help you achieve 
Greenspan
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE of others. Extravagance and time your dreams. 0000 
11 Coach's strategy will work against you. Don't CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): S A M O G U L 12 Squeeze (out) Punle by Si-ry 0. Blackard make unrealistic promises. 00 Financial gains can be made if GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you're willing to take a bit of a
A B A S E 13 Cub's home 34 James Dean or 49 Stick (to) 58 Russia's 
Educational pursuits should be risk. Go after that new position
H T 21 Gershwin's " Marilyn Monroe 50 Undermine Mountains 
on your agenda. You will learn and don't let anyone tell you that
~--,,+,,+,T,,..i Eat Cake" ­
35 Job for a body 59 Cutup
51 Frank's partner easily from the lectures you you've taken on more than you
----4....,...4~--~::...E;..i 22 Response to a shop 
in the comics 60 Downhill racer attend and enjoy others' compa­can handle. 000 · punch in the 36 Beige ny. Knowledge will bring greater AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
54 "Wavy waste," to 61 Canned
stomach self-awareness. 00000 You'll be holding yourself back if
38 Widespread

26 Roll call Thomas Hood 62 G.P.'s grp. CANCER (June 21-July 22): you don't realize your capabili­
39 White House 

response 56 lazuli 63 Sloop's sail Your tendency to overspend on ties. Don't confide in your peers.
office shape 

children, entertainment or invest­Your reluctance to do what they
27 Mary Higgins 
40 Company picnic ments will cause problems with want will only cause discord. 00
Clark's "Before activity Answers to any three clues in this puzzle loved ones. Direct your efforts PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):R _ Good-Bye" 
into furthering your career and You face delays if you haven't
41 K-0 connection are available by touch-tone phone:
-:-+~.,..+,N,.,.+,,D,-4 30 In the manner 
securing your future. 000 put all your personal papers in
42 Like some old 1·900-420-5656 (95e per minu1e).
of 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Pas­order. You will have problemsI C H 31 Chunk in the buckets Annual subscriptions are available for the sionate encounters will be most dealing with officials if you don't R E A Arctic Ocean 46 Flowery verse best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 rewarding. Make plans to spend play by the rules. Keep your E R T 32 Eye sores 47 Gang fight years: 1-888•7-ACROSS. some quality time with the thoughts to yourself. 000 
Birthday Baby: You're off to the races, curious to see what's around the next comer. You are a handful for those who love you ,but a very entertainingfriend and confidant. You are popular. pleasant and pasitive. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 
<I:> 2001 Un.'versal Press Syndicate

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
------------------------------~~-~---------------------------------------­
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
YOU MEAN SoME.oNE WOW. WHO ACTU,'.LLY, HE JASoN? THE AFTE~NOON 
WHERE'S HE'S SPENDING 
8EStDES MARCUS,;, kNEW THE SPEC1F1CALL'Y I O',/ER AT A 
\ LITTLE C,EE1' AVo10EO CLASSMATE'S HAD OTHER UStNC, HOUSE. FRIENDS? THAT 
I 

~ woRD. 
I 
TYLER
TOM KEELEY 
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
LOOK, JVST BECAUSE I HAD TO STAY HERE OVER SPRING BREAK ... 

BILL AMEND 
filofflJ 

DON'T SAY ,srnAT 

MY NAME. A ',/OICE :rusT LET Sc:RAM­ME IN BLER 
QUICKL'I'. YOU'RE USING?
\ . ~) 

Spring Break: a chance to refuel. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _____________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip.______ 
-·· 



Off and running 
Irish men's lacrosse earns No. 2 for its highest ranking in history. 
page 20

PORTS 
THE page 28 OBSERVER Tuesday, March 20, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish seniors say goodbye to Joyce Center with 88-54 win 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Spom Editor 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team said goodbye Monday night, but it was hardly a sad farewell. 
In an NCAA Tournament sec­ond round contest that marked their last game of the season at the Joyce Center, the Irish top­pled the Wolverines of Michigan 88-54 in front of 9,597 fans. 
For the second time in three days, every player on the Irish roster scored -led by All­American center Ruth Hiley's 21 points. The 2000-01 Naismith Award winner made eight of eleven attempts from the field while going a perfect live-for­five from the line. 
Riley excelled despite facing many double-and even triple­teams from the Wolverine defense. Despite the tight defense, fellow seniors Niele Ivey and Kelley Siemon had little trouble getting Riley the ball under the basket. 
"The key with her is just to throw the ball up and she'll grab it," Siemon said. 
And when Siemon couldn't pass the ball off to Riley, she just took it to the hoop herself. 
"They really were crowding [Riley] inside so it was easier for me to just drive in and shoot that easy lay-up," Siemon, who finished with 16 points, said. "You can't really triple-team on a team of our caliber because we just have so many threats offensively." 
One or those threats is thrne­point shooting. where the Irish stuck a dagger in the Wolverines early on. 
Notre Dame hit six of 1 O attempts from behind the three­point line as they opened up a 44-28 halftime lead. Alicia Ratay and Jeneka Joyce each connected on three treys, including a buzzer-beating shot by Joyce that sent the Wolverines to the locker room on a sour not11. 
"To hit a shot at tlrn buzzer like that I think kind or breaks your back when you're on defense," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I was really 
pleased  with  tlrn  way  she  
played."  
Wolverines'  coach  Sue  
Guevara agreed.  

"That hurt a lot. We were kind of making a mini-run," Guevara said. "With seven seconds left to go, we know who the shooters are." 
Joyce iinished with 14 points in 22 minutes, but McGraw was most impressed with the fresh­man's defense, which helped limit Michigan to 32.9 percent shooting from the field. 
see WOMEN/page 22 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish unable to pull off key play in 59-56 loss to Ole Miss 
By KERRY SMITH Sports Writer 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
The Irish call the play "top." 

The idea is simple -a pick and roll play designed to leave Troy Murphy or another sharp shooter open for a look at the basket from behind the arc with the option of dishing it into the middle. 
It had worked for the Irish time and again throughout the season. It had even worked in the first half of Notre Dame's 59-56 loss to Ole Miss Sunday in the NCAA Midwest regional at Kemper Arena. 
But as the final seconds ticked off the clock and the Irish found themselves trailing by two. the team, wearing their special green uniforms, couldn't get anything special out of "top." 
Except a steal. 

The stifling Ole Miss defense jammed Murphy up in the mid­dle, and as Matt Carroll opted for an inside pass to Ryan Humphrey instead of the deep shot with seven seconds remaining, Rebel guard David Sanders effectively put an end to Notre Dame's tournament run. 
"It was a play they had been running all game," Sanders said. "I was just watching to make sure he didn't get a shot. I think I blind sided him and got a hand on the ball." 
It was only fitting that the No.3-seeded Hebels, a team which focuses on defense above every other facet of the game, earned a trip to the Sweet 16 in San Antonio next weekend with a tough defensive stand. 
''We pride ourselves on 
defense," Rahim Lockhart, the Rebels' game-high scorer with 24, said. "Anyone can shoot, but not anyone can play defense. That's the way to win a championship. Offense will sell tickets and win a couple games, but defense is the dif­ference in a game." 
Defense was the difference at Kemper Sunday as the Rebels held the Irish to 29 percent shooting overall. 
"Nothing came easy," Irish head coach Mike Brey said. "But we gave ourselves every chance to win this basketball game. They made more plays at crunch time than we did." 
After leading 29-28 at the half, the Irish shot only 21 per­cent from the field in the sec­ond half, going without a single field goal for more than seven minutes. 
see MEN/page 23 

JOSE CUELLAMhe Observer David Graves defends against a Pittsburgh player In a 75-67 Irish victory earlier this season. 
.._ Baseball Men's Lacros:.c: vs. Cleveland Stare vs. Hofstra
SPORTS 

Wednesday, 4:05 p.m. Saturday, I p.m. 
SoftballATA vs. Western Michigan at Kentucky vs. Utah Tuesday, 4 p.m.
!'§:)
,....__, 

Saturday, 12 p.m. Saturday, TBA
&

GLANCE 
I 
I L_ 




