
We be clubbin' 
Rock the vote 

Monday

Think Notre Dame is allfootball? There is 
ND's student bod.I/ elections are today. Vote in 
more to do in the shadows ofthe Golden 
residence halls at specified times. Off-campus 
Dome. check out some lesser-known clubs. 
students vote outside DeBartolo computer lab 
FEBRUARY 12,

from 9 a.m. -11 a.m. or r p.m. -4 p.m.
Scene . page 10-11 
2001 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 85 

Voting trends evident in student elections 

By KATE NAGENGAST AssiS1ant News ELl11or 
Despite consistent complaints of stu­dent ILpathy, Notre Dame students have their own set of voting trends and u his­tory of impressive voter turnout come election day. 
The entire student body maintains an average voter turnout rate of 52 per­cent. However if off-campus students are eliminated from the statistics. the rate jumps to 62 percent, said Jay Smith. chief of staff for the O'Oonoghue/Norton administration. 
"If you look at that nationally it's a lot 
higher than the national average," he said. 
Since off-campus voters are required to vote in DeBartolo, while the rest or the student body tiles bal­!ots within their dorms, proximity and convenience could contribute to the lower o!T-campus stu­dent turnout. 
he said. "This is just a hypothesis, but the reason could be that nationally women are beginning to vote with a great frequency and preponderance than men do in U.S. elections. 1think it is an overall trend." 
However, Notre Dame has a few trends of its own. 
'Td say there are two things that dis­tinguish Notre Dame from other schools [regarding student government elec­tions]," said Smith. "The first being the affinity towards a dorm, the second being the percentage of people who participate." 
Smith's mention of dorm alfrnity is not insignificant. In fact, dorm preference is 
just one of a few 
trends noticeable in 

"If you look at that the judicial council's election summaries
nationally, {Notre Dame's 
from 1997 through

percentage isl a 
2000. The council lot higher than the maintains records of voter turnout per
national average. " 
dorm. and the num­ber of votes each Jay Smith candidate receives chief of staff from each dorm in 
Yet, there are additional factors that affect the turnout rate, including conve­nient locations of the baUot boxes with­in the dorms. publicity and awareness of the election -and, according to Smith, gender. 
"Looking at the percentages over the course of the last four elections it seems to me that female dorms vote in m'Jch higher percentages than maJe dorms." 
both primary and 
run-off elections. 
Using records from 1997 and 2000 primary elections, every candidate won their president's dorm, and an over­whelming majority carried the vice president's dorm as well if it differed from the president's. 
The only notable exception was Zahm !-!all, whose residents occasionally had trouble choosing from a number of less popular tickets the dorm contributed. 


Non-voters 

*On-campus students have a voter turnout of 62% 
Only one candidate from both 1997 and none from 2000 was an off-campus resident. However, he failed to win the off-campus vote. 
Female dorms -with their higher voter turnout -were especially influ­ential in determining the candidates that entered the run-off election in both 1997 and 2000. The dorms, however, did not vote along gender lines in either election and the judicial council's results were inconclusive with regards to consistent male or female support of male or female candidates. 
Absentee voters -those studying abroad during the spring semester ­voted for the winning tickets in both 
see TRENDS/page 4 

By MOLLY McVOY Saine Mary's Editor 

Students lined LeMans hallway Friday afternoon to protest cen­sorship of the Vagina Monologues on Saint Mary's campus. 
The sit-in was held outside the office of College President Marilou Eldred in response to an. administrative decision to not allow The Vagina Monologues to be performed on campus. 
"I was looking for recognition of the fact that censorship of a theatrical performance on a col­lege campus is contrary to acad­emic freedom," said Jen Wagner. the organizer of the sit-in. "I read about Dr. Eldred's final decision in the paper and that was the last straw." 
According to organizers. between 25 and 40 people attended the sit-in in support of the cause. In addition. the orga­nize rs were looking for signa­tures on a petition in opposition to censorship on Saint Mary's campus. Nearly 300 signatures 
HTTP://OBSERV . 

Power outage 


darkens South Quad 
Observer St.If Report 
Dan Barabas was expecting a normal Friday night: he'd pre-party at Fisher Hall before heading to Holiday Inn City Center for a formal dance. But as the sophomore and his girlfriend Elizabeth Ayala walked back from Cavanaugh, every light around them went off, and South Quad turned black. 
"We were shocked and chagrined," Barabas said. "It was funny, and when we got back to Fisher, it was mayhem. Our rector was walking around with a flashlight." 
The power outage on South Quad Friday began around 8:30 p.m. and last­ed until a little after 1 a.m., University facilities officials said. Pangborn, Dillon, Fisher. Alumni and Lyons halls lost 
pow~r. 
According to Paul Kempf, director of utilities, the blackout resulted from a failed cable connected to a circuit that provides power to South Quad buildings. Kempf did not link the cable failure to any specific event. 
"It's just one of those things that hap­pens from time to time," he said. Student reaction to the outage was mixed. When Kristen Roger's lights went out in her Pangborn room, she expected 
see POWER/page 4 


Monologues cancellation inspires student protest 
were collected on the petition. Wagner said. 
The sit-in began as parents arrived on campus !'or sopho­more parents' weekend at the college. Wagner explained that they timed it that way so more than students would hear what the organizers had to say. 
Although Eldred explained her reasoning to the entire student body and made a final decision regarding the Monologues, some hope there is still the possibility that she will change her mind. 
"I still think there's a chance that president Eldred will be per­suaded to change her mind," said Notre Dame graduate student Aaron Kreider, a member of the protest. "The sit-in combined with students talking to her and writing letters in the future are going to add up." 
According to Wagner. the peti­tion was given to Eldred after the sit-in ended on Friday afternoon. 
"I hope that we no longer sec censorship of dramatic produc­tions on this campus," Wagner said. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, February 12, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 




More than corn 
I'll be the first to admit that my state is not that cool. 
Indiana has not garnered itself a great reputa­tion oflate. The man from Evansville who frrcd a gun in front of the White House has done little for our reputation. I agree with most people that his was an asinine move. 
But that's usually where our agreement ends. I shake my head vehemently at each reference to Indiana as the cause of his problems and idiocy at essentially try­ing to kill himself next to the most guarded house in the United States. 
I cringe at the cries of "only in Indiana." 
No. NOT only in Indiana. 
This country is full of strange, messed up people and they do not all come from Indiana. I'm not lobby­ing that Indiana is the hippest. most exciting place to visit. Indiana tourism experts have enough trouble doing that. 

But as aesthetically and eventfully boring as it can sometimes be, Indiana is not where cows and nasty. old farmers come to die. 
There's a long-standing theory that Indiana is made up of-well, corn and "white trash." 

I'm from Northwest Indiana. I've never really liked corn. And as I write this, I'm confident that the Guns 'N Roses I'm listening to doesn't make me white trash but someone with an eclectic music collection. 
It's amazing what you learn about your home­town when you leave it. I never knew that all people from NWI lack "street smarts" and are gullible. And you can imagine how lucky I felt to have escaped the pregnancy plague that some believe has hit my hometown. 
But really, when is my polite smiling supposed to end? When I'm made to feel ashamed ofthe home where my parents raised me? Am I not supposed to be insulted when people ask me if I've been cow tipping? 
There are pregnant teenagers and toothless bartenders in the most stereotypically classy states in the country. Indiana isn't some refuge state where they all migrate. 
Every town or city in America has "townies," 

South Bend and Indiana are no exceptions. Every 
state has dirty men with no teeth and bad 
breath. 
Scan your local bars the next time you're 
home. 
Look for the overweight. 45-year-old men 
singing karaoke. Look for the middle-aged 

women in tight leather skirts who should NOT be 
wearing tight leather skirts. 
They're not just in Indiana. They're in your 
towns and states, too. 

And Notre Dame is not some haven where all 
normal, non-white trash Hoosiers congregate. 

"Notre Dame doesn't belong in Indiana," I hear 
from friends and classmates. 
How arrogant. 
The fact is everyone at Notre Dame chose to 

attend a school in Indiana. And while South Bend 
is not the safest or most fun city, it is where we 
spend our four years. It's where we make our 

stories and build our friendships. It is guaranteed 
where you will continue to visit each year you 
attend a football game or visit your old dorm. 
And one day you may find yourself strangely 

missing the city and state with all the townies. Or 
at least you 'II miss making so much fun of them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Laura Rompf  Jaqueline Browder  
Nicole Haddad  Graphic-8  
Meg Daday  Jose Cuellar  
Sports  Production  
Kathleen O'Brian  Brian Kessler  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Kun Bogaard  Amanda Greco  


• The Obsrr11er (USPS 5?9 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday except during exam and v•carion p,,rirnh. The Observer is a member of rhe lusociatcd Pres5. All reproJuccion rlght5 are reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Lecture: "Party  . Movie: All-campus movie  
Discipline in the Mexican  screening of Bob Posse's  
Chamber of Deputies,"  "All That Jazz," followed  
Benito Nacif Hernandez,  by a feedback session with  
Kellogg Visiting Fellow,  special guest appearance  
CIDE Dept. of Politics, C- by actor Roy Scheider,  
103 Hesburgh Center.  O'Laughlin Auditorium,  
12:30 p.m.  7:00p.m.  

Wednesday 
. Lecture: "What Ethics Week Means to the Mendoza College of Business," Carolyn Woo, Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business, brown bag lun­cheon, 12:30 p.m. 
Thursday 
. Current Affairs Panel: 
"Irreconcilable Differences? 
Can Palestine and Israel find 
Peace?", Peter Wallensteen. 
Alan Dowty, Dan Lindley, C­
103 Hesburgh Center for · International Studies. 12:30 
p.m. 

Compiled from U-Wire repol1s 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Law prevents U. Penn from distributing RU-486 
PHILADELPHIA 
As colleges across the nation debate whether to distribute the so-called "abortion pill" on their campuses. officials at University of Pennsylvania Student Health Services say they will not be able to provide RU-486, despite its recent approval by the Food and Drug Administration. 
In a letter to physicians, the Pennsylvania Department of Health announced that, in accordance with its Abortion Control Act, only facilities registered to provide abortions would be allowed to give the drug -thereby excluding Student Health Services. 
Student Health, however, will continue to provide advice for women facing unwanted pregnancy 


and referrals to abortion providers, like the Philadelphia Women's Center, if necessary. 
Janice Asher, medical director of Women's Health Services, said she agreed with the Department of Health's decision and added that 
she usually would suggest other forms of abortion over the pill. 
"I am less enthusiastic about it for a Penn population ... because we have excellent access to compe­tent surgical-abortion providers," she said. "We don't have the facili­ties to provide for the complica­tions." 
RU-486. also known as mifepris­tone, is taken within the first seven weeks of pregnancy, and works by bl-ocking the hormone proges­terone. which stops the develop­ment of the fetus. 
A second drug, misoprostol. is provided a few days later and causes the uterus to contract and expel the fetus, in a similar man­ner to that of a natural miscar­riage. 
UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI 
Presidents vent in internet diaries 
COLUMBIA, Mo. 
Students across the nation now have the chance to see the ethics and morals of their university presidents first­hand. The presidents of some colleges and universities are posting their ideas on the Internet in the Journal of College and Character at www.collegevalues.org. The Journal is a Web site devoted to bringing morals back tQ the university. Its main focus is to add "civil learning" to the curriculum. The site is accepting entries from presi­dents relating to ethical issues· that may arise on cam­pus. The decreasing role universities are playing in place of parents, known as "in loco parentis," is why colleges swayed from teaching civic learning and ethics, said Jon Dalton, the journal's editor and the director of the Center for the Study of Values in College Student Development for Florida State University. Consequently, Dalton said, he began the project last year to help the president have a stronger presence at the university. "Presidential leadership is really important in setting the moral tone for the university," Dalton said. 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Special test conditions disregarded 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
The Educational Testing Service (ETS) announced Thursday that it will no longer flag the test scores of students who take standardized tests with special accommodations for their disabilities. For now, the announcement only applies to the GMAT. GRE. TOFEL and Praxis exams. The College Board, an independent agency affiliated with the ETS, will decide by March 31 if the same policy will apply to SAT scores. Flagged scores are currently distinguished by the notation, "Scores Obtained Under Special Conditions," in score reports sent to college admissions offices and students. Director of Harvard Admissions Marlyn McGrath Lewis '73 said she is not concerned about receiving scores that have been taken under special conditions but are not denoted as such. She said that the potential change in score-reporting would not affect the College's admis­sion process. "This is actually not a big deal," McGrath Lewis wrote in an e-mail. "Tests play a useful, but lim­ited, role in our selection." 
NATIONAL WEATHER
LOCAL WEATHER 

S Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather llrocast fcnla_ytime cooditioo< and high temperdlllreS ; 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 12. 

2001 AccuWea111er, Inc. 

p,.qure: ® © High Low  D Shower&  D Rain  c=J [J Im . T-¦ torma flun-lH Snow ~  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  50 38 28 40 64  45 33 24 29 58  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New Yori< Philadelphia  52 46 35 35 37  43 42 26 31 32  Portland 4B Sacramento 51 St. Louis 49 Tampa 82 Washington OC 38  30 39 4 64 34  

Monday, February 12, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
SPAIN 
Women rule for day to honor past 
Associ.:atcd Press 
/AMAHllAMAI J\ 

Women donned black, white and red gowns Sunday for a festival to honor their fore­mothers, who helped win a lcgnndary 13th century battle by mcsm,irizing Moorish invaders wilh a seductive dance. 
According to local lore, the wom1m or Zamarramula stood outside a castle in nearby Segovia in 1227 and bewitched the invaders with songs and dances. Their unusual diver­sionary tactic worked; the vii• !age men -farmers armed with ho,is -crept in through the back and captured the fortress. 
As their reward. the women were allowed to rule the vil­lage for one day each year. The tradition. honored annual• ly, remains one of Spain's old­est festivals. 
On Sunday. thousands packed the streets of Zamarramala, a small town 
about  60  miles  north  of  
Madrid.  
At  a  reception  reserved  

exclusively for Zamarramala's married women. chefs served up a local specialty -spicy sausage simmered in white wine, with chunks of thick, country-style bread for dunk­ing. Outside. street vendors offered the same for everybody else. 
A scarecrow-like figure with a dirty pinstriped suit and the face of a gargoyle was burned in effigy, symbolic of"all that is wrong with men," said festi­val organizer Sara Velasco. 
"This is our way of support­ing women's drive for their rightl'ul place in society," Velasco said. 
In some households, men played homemaker and did all the chores •· from making the beds to cooking. 
'Tve got my wife and moth• er-in-law at home right now and I have to wait on them hand and foot." said Esteban Calle Lazaro, 60. "They're actually in charge every day, but today even more." 
The festival's guest of honor was Luisa Fernanda Rudi. speaker of the Spanish Parliament -named this year's "Matahombres de Oro," which translates to "golden mankiller," for her efforts to promote female empower­ment. 
"The award doesn't mean what it looks like semantical­ly," Rudi told the crowd. "All of this is a symbol of the defense of women and their role at the dawn uf the new century." 
Mary Tyler Moore fights Gov. Pataki over teen gun control 
Aswciatcd Press 
ALBANY. N.Y. 

Wustchester County's most famous TV mom is taking on Gov. George Pataki's pro• posal to allow more teen-agers to hunt big game. 
Mary Tyler Moore, who gained fame in the 1960s sitcom "The Dick Van Dyke Show" lhal was set in the Westchester County town of New Rochelle, is supporting an effort by The Fund for Animals to shoot down Pataki's proposal even before it formally 
reaches the Legislature. 
The measure would lower the age to legal­ly hunt deer and bear to 14 from 16. Young hunters would have to complete the state's 10-hour hunter safety course and hunt with a parent or have written permission from a parent to go out with another licensed adult. 
"The government should not be in the role of promoting and placing firearms in the hands of children," Moore. who now lives in New York's Dutchess County, said in a letter released Friday. 
"Basketballs, baseballs and books are a much better alternative." 
Study: advertising most dangerous for children 
By KEVIN SCHUMM News Writer 
While commonly believed to influence only the events lead­ing up to and including the purchase of an item, advertis­ing impacts children's post· purchase experience as well, according lo a recent study conducted by Mendoza College of Business Marketing Professor Elizabeth Moore. 
"We discovered that expo­sure to advertising can still have an impact not only after a product is purchased, but that it can actually alter the experience kids have with the product itself," said Moore. 
In addition to the post-pur• chase effect of advertising, 
Moore also found that advertising was more influential with older children. This finding at first seems slightly counterintu­itive because "the prevailing wisdom is that children become less susceptible lo advertising as they mature," said Moore. 
"We discovered that exposure to advertising can still have an impact not on(lJ after a product is purchased. but that it can actually alter the experience kids have with the product itself" 
Elizabeth Moore marketing professor 
However, the greater cogni­tive abilities of older children may in ract be the very reason for their increased receptive• ness to advertising. 
"[With] older kids there are multiple routes to persuasion available. Ultimately, they have more ways to connect the ad to their own experi­ence," she said. 
Co-authored by University of Florida Professor Richard Lutz, the study focused on two age groups of Florida elemen­tary school children. According to Moore. at or shortly after age 8, most chil­dren recognize the "persua­sion intent" or advertising: to cover both stages of develop­ment. the study focused un children from age 7 to 8 as well as children age IO to 11. 
In order to accurately mea­sure the effects of' advertising on children, Moore and Lutz employed the research tech­nique of triangulation. This technique lead to the utiliza­tion of both a hypothesis study as well as a discovery-orient­ed study where Moore and Lutz gained both quantitative and qualitative support for their argument. If the older 
children were not enter­Utincd by current advertising about the product, they were I C s s inclined to enjoy their consump­tion of the product; however, the post-purchase 
effect of advertising on the younger children was much less significant. 
In a society constantly inun­dated with limitless informa­tion ex.change, Moore feels that this study should raise society's exercise of caution with regard to children. 
"Children [lack) the cogni­tive sophistication and greater experience or adults," Moore said. "[WeJ need to recognize that children arc a vulnerable audience." 

"1141TB, IE4B Tl!" 
Have you been thinking about: 
• Living in an exciting city? 
• Studying in the nation's capitol? 
• 
Working in an internship? 

• 
Studying Public Affairs? 



Then the Washington Semester Program Is for you! 
Applications now being accepted for Fall 2001 and Spring 2002 Semesters. 
Open to: 
Sophomores, Juniors & Seniors From all colleges 
For more Information go to the Washington Semester website at: 
WWW.nJ.cuu/~SC:lnCSlC(/ 
or for an application, come to 346 O'Shaughnessy 
Daadlln• •• Februarv 191 
Bia Ko ee House Coming Soon... 
INTE~~:"-l'(?NAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 


page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, February 12, 2001 

Trends 
continued from page I 
elections -47 of 49 votes to the winning candidate in 1997: 60 of 100 votes in 2000. More notice­ably in 2000, students studying abroad submitted no votes for the lesser-known tickets like the infamous "Darths" or a handful of underclassmen with little stu­dent government experience. 
Student publications also have a significant impact on voting trends. Both Scholastic and The Observer have consistently endorsed candidates that made the run-off elections; and, Scholastic has endorsed the win­ner for six consecutive years. However. there are no specific records of students' opinions regarding the publications' cov­erage of the elections and the effect it may have had on their decisions. 
Power 
continued from page l 
power to be restored within minutes. She called the five­hour outage a "major annoy­ance." 
"You couldn't read, get on the computer or do anything," she said. 
Peter Rossmann, a junior Fisher resident, said the out­age had a slight effect on pre­parties before the dance. 
"Of all the n{ghts for a power outage to happen, it was the 

Overall, from year to year, the size of Notre Dame's student body and the higher than aver­age voter turnout have had the greatest impact candidates cam­paign style. 
"I think we've seen a greater number of candidates going door-to-door and understanding the importance of meeting the individual voter," said Smith. "Additionally, I think we've seen a lot of effort on the behalf of candidates to make sure that people are aware that they're running. Their frionds are talk­ing it up amongst different peo­ple. 
"I think that overall you're going to sec about 3900-4100 students vote [today]." Smith added. "I don't think that helps any specific candidate. But I think it helps those candidates who were out there door-knock­ing and the higher participation rate there is tomorrow the better it works for all candidates." 
night of a dance," Rossmann said. ''We had no lights and no music -it was impossible for everything to work." 
Rossmann said he was glad it was a formal instead of an SYR because students were able to leave Fisher and ride buses to the Holiday Inn City Center. 
Barabas said the power out­age made the night interest­ing. 
"It was fun. It gave the party a little more character," Barabas said. "Otherwise it would've been another dime­a-dozen formal." 
Gene mapping aids treatillent 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Mutations in the human genome predispose or cause at least 1,500 diseases, ranging from diabetes and asthma to cancer and heart attack. 
But why these mutations prompt these diseases is imperfectly understood and patients suffer and die for rea­sons that still befuddle medical science. 
The connection between gene mutation and disease will become much clearer now, say the experts, with the mapping and sequencing of the entire human genome. They believe that new understanding even­tually will lead to dramatic new treatments. 
"With the anatomy of the human genome at hand, the biomedical research communi­ty is facing sweeping changes in its methods and strategies," write Dr. Leena Peltonen of UCLA and Dr. Victor A. McKusick at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. 
The complete genome opens up the real prospect of devel­oping medical treatments tai­lor-made for individual patients. of developing drugs that attack only the disease and leave the rest of the body alone, and of predicting, per­haps at birth, which person is most likely to develop which disease and offering a way to prevent it. 
In the future, say Peltonen and McKusick, newborns may be screened for treatable genetic diseases and "children at high risk of coronary artery disease can be identified and treated to prevent changes in their vascular walls during adulthood," thus preventing 
OLY 
heart attacks. 

It may now be possible, said Barbara Trask of the Hutchinson Cancer Center. for medical science to pinpoint in each patient the genes that have gone awry and caused cancer and then to design a treatment specifically for that problem. 
"Cancer is really a disease of the genome," said Trask. Some gene within the cell sud­denly is changed or silenced. sending the whole cell spiral­ing into a pattern of uncon­trolled growth and division. 
Having a map of the whole genome as a reference base. said Trask, "will allow you to more rapidly find those 
places "Why do cancer cells in less gruel­where the some people progress and ing for the 
cancerous patient.''
in others they do not?
cells deviat­Trask said. 
ed from the Having the complete Genes are reference.'' genome will help us figure not the final 
Once those answer in
all this out." 

changed treating genes are disease. In identified, Barbara Trask most cases. scientists a mutated
Hutchinson Cancer Center 
will be able to find what they do and why they help can­cer develop and spread, she said. 
With the genome map. said Trask, medical science will be able to find answers about other diseases, such as why some people contracting a virus, such as HIV, rapidly become sick, while others don't. 
"Why do cancer cells in some people progress and in others they do not?" she said. "Having the complete genome will help us figure all this out." 
Trask said cancer now is 
treated with "a sledge hammer approach." 
Patients are given chemicals or radiation that attack virtual­ly every cell in the body, not just the cancer cells. There is nausea, pain, loss of hair and general, deep exhaustion. 
"Each cancer cell is special and has a different genetic reason for going a wry." said Trask. With a genome map in hand, researchers will eventu­ally be able to recognize the rogue genes and determine why and how they went wrong. 
"We could then design treat­ments that specifically address that defect in the tumor and the treatments would become more tar­geted and 
or changed 
gene gives a predisposition for cancer or other diseases. It is thought to take an "environmental insult" such as smoking, to trigger the predisposition toward cancer. Genes may open the door to heart disease, but a high fat diet and a lack of exercise may also play a role. 
Research into the whole human genome will help find the genes that predispose for disease, and other studies will help determine the environ­mental influences that help give birth to the disease, Trask said. This could lead to dra­matic advances in prevention. 
SSOCIATES 
Information Meeting
A Tuesday, Feb. 13th .. 
IIS 7pm-8pm IIS 
Center for Social Concerns 
"Being an Associate has been a challenging yet life changing experience. I have learned so much about the person I am and the person I hope to be. After working, living, and growing in this community and environment. I know my life will never 
be the same." --Stasia Bijak, ND '00 
"HCA is not an experience to be taken ligbdy. You must be open to leaving your 'comfort zones', and embrace the challenges and personal growth that come with that decision," 

2000-2001 Holy Cross Associates from Notre Dame --Paul Lewis, ND '00 
Applications are now being accepted, with placement priority given to those received by April 1st. (Applications available on-line.) 
Associates are eligible for AmeriCorps Education Awards and Loan Deferments. The Education Award is $4,725 towards loans and/or future education. 
izona, California, Colorado, Massachusetts, Oregon, and Pennsylvania 
://www.nd.edu/~hcassoc/ 
,----------------------------------------------­

ATION 
Monday, February 12, 200 I 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

WORLD News BRIEFS 
Rape broadcast protested in Israel: 
Video fooLagu of a naked woman being beaten by au attacker who also allegedly raped her was broadcast on the national television news, spurring outrage and calls of protest lo the state-run Israel Television. The attacker filmed the assault in which he beat and raped his house cleaner, according to ihe charges. The allegnd ntpc was not broadcast on television. 
Mori criticized on sub crash: Japanese Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori was bernled by a leader of his own coalition Sunday for '111ishing a round uf golf after hearing about thn submarin11 accident that loft nine Japanese missing. Mori rnp()rtcdly stayed on the links with old collogo l'rfonds l'or two hours Saturday after lmaring that tho USS Greeneville rammed inlo a Japanese lishing Lrawler. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Graham decides against bid: u.s. 
Sen. Bob Graham has closed the door on a pos· sibl" run for a return to the Florida governor's mansion in 2002, telling Democratic leaders that the party should look elsewhere. "I know in this gathering there is a next generation ... and I encourage you to take that step," said the popular former governor, who had been high on the list as a potential candidate to take on Hepub!ican Gov. Jeb Bush. 
Rich pardon spurs debate: Former President Clinton could face a fresh impeach­ment inquiry as a result of his last-minute par· don of fugitive financier Marc Hich, a senior Hepublican said Sunday. Sen. Arlen Specter, a senior member of' the Judiciary Committee and a former Philadelphia prosecutor, did not sped• IY what specific charges Clinton might face. But he said that based on his legal research, he believed a former president "technically could still be impeached." 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Police officer shot at White Castle: 
Lawrence police say an officer who was shot in the face Friday while ordering food at a drive­thru window was able to call for help, exit his squad car and return lire at two suspects who !led on foot. Tom Ashcraft, 45, a five-year vet· eran of the Lawrence Police Department, was in stable condition Saturday at Wishard Memorial Hospital. He suffered a broken jaw. Police arrested two Indianapolis men for attempted murder of a police officer. Thomas Booker, 23, and Willie Stewart, 22. were being held in Marion County. 
Market Watch 2/9 

Dow 
10,781.45 -99.10

/ONES 
Composite
Up:., Same: &, 
Volume;
1,388 219 
~ NIA 
AMEX: 931.23 ,5.\9 Nasdaq: 2470.97 -91.09 
NYSE: 65.3.28 .-4.84 

S&P 500: 1314.76 -17.77 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
CUMl'ANY/SECURllY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTfMS (CSCIJ) -6.03 -I.RI 2k.l9 ORACLh CORP iORCLJ -13. 14 -3.,6 23.,6 NASDAQ Ino Sf!AR \QQQ) -4.07 -2.39 56.40 SUN MlCROWSTEM tSUNW) -~.08 -1.31 ZM6 MICl!OSOFT CORP {MSF'J) -5.03 -3.13 59,12 

Associated Press 
FLORIDA 
Wearing goggles and red, white and blue socks, two space commanders opened the door Sunday to Destiny, the American• made science laboratory and the newest and prici• est addition to the interna• tional space station. 
The moment the hatch was raised by astronauts Bill Shepherd and Kenneth Cockrell, space station Alpha became the largest orbiting outpost ever in terms of habitable volume. 
"The lab looks and feels and smells great, and looks like all the hard work has really paid off," said Cockrell, space shuttle Atlantis' skipper. "It's a beautiful piece of hard­ware in here." 

Replied Mission Control: "It looks awesome. We hope you guys enjoy your new room on your house." 
The house actually belongs to Shepherd, the commander of space sta· tion Alpha, and his two Russian crewmates. In a brief ceremony, Shepherd signed for the delivery of' the $1.4 billion laboratory, which was installed by the visiting shuttle astronauts on Saturday. 
Shepherd led the way into the Destiny laborato­ry. followed by Cockrell and the six other spacefar­ers. They wore goggles until they were sure no debris was floating inside. 
The six Americans wore socks that had red and white stripes from the ankle down, and white stars on a blue back­ground from the ankle up. 
Destiny -28 feet long and 14 feet in diameter ­was a brilliant white inside. Its shelves and wall compartments were cov­ered with strips of protec­tive cloth that the astro· nauts and cosmonauts promptly removed. Underneath were spotless white walls running the length of the module and a bright blue wall on one end and matching blue handrails. 
On one of the wall covers were a couple hundred signatures of those who had prepared Destiny for flight, along with these words: "Dreams are like stars; You choose them as your guides, and following them, you reach your Destiny." 
Astronaut Marsha Ivins promised to bring the signed sheet back to Cape Canaveral for display. 
UKRAINE 

Protesters demand Kuchma's ouster 
Associated I'ress 
KIEV 
Chanting and carrying a giant Ukrainian flag, protesters marched through the capital Sunday to demand the ouster of President Leonid Kuchma, accusing him of' playing a role in the disappearance of an opposition journalist. 
The third demonstration in a week came hours before Kuchma wel­comed Russian President Vladimir Putin, who arrived Sunday evening for talks. Rising tension about the missing journalist has embarrassed the Ukrainian president and forged an unlikely alliance between nation­alist and leftist forces. 

"Down with Kuchma!" the demon• strators chanted, as they gathered on Kiev's main street near a tent camp raised by protesters in December. 
Young men wearing black masks guarded the camp, concealing their faces to avoid being recognized by security agents they believed were filming the protest. 
Critics claim Kuchma played a role in the disappearance of Heorhiy Gongadze, a journalist who criticized alleged high-level corruption and disappeared in September. A beheaded body found near Kiev in November is believed to be Gongadze. 
A former presidential bodyguard later provided audio recordings of purported conversations between Kuchma and top aides, with Kuchma allegedly fuming in obscene language about Gongadze and urging action to silence the journalist. The tapes were made public by opposition Socialist Party leader, Oleksandr Moroz. 
Kuchma and other accused officials have strongly denied involvement. and authorities say the tapes were fabricated. 
On Saturday, Kuchma abruptly ousted the chief of Ukraine's security service, Leonid Derkach, and the head of 'the state bodyguard depart­ment, Volodymyr Shepel. 

--------·-­

---------------------------------------, 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Monday, February 12, 2001 
Syria stop added to Powell's peace trip 
Associated P ce..s 
WASHINGTON 
Secretary of State Colin Powell said Sunday he was adding a stop in Syria dur­ing his upcoming trip to t h e Middle East for discus­s i on s w i t h Presi­d e n t Bashar Assad. 
D a ­
masc us was not included when Powell announced on Friday a five-day trip that begins Feb. 23. 
Powell already planned to see Israel's new prime minister. Ariel Sharon; Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat; and leaders of Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Kuwait. He also will stop in Brussels, Belgium, for meetings with NATO allies. 
"Syria is an important nation in the region, an important player in this whole process, and so I thought it was very, very appropriate for me, as part of this quick trip through the Middle East, my first trip, to also stop in Syria for just a few hours," Powell said on CBS' "Face the Nation." 
At his State Department news conference last week, it was noted that 
-Syria was not on Powell's itinerary. "Don't read any­thing," he said, adding, "I reserve the right to change my mind. I am the secre­tary of state; I can change my mind." 


The visit to Damascus is important because Syria supports Hezbollah guer­rillas in Lebanon who have carried out sporadic attacks against Israelis. 
Further attacks could pro­voke a deadly response by Sharon. who is committed to bolstering Israel's secu­rity and has not shied away from using force in the past. The former gen­eral in 1982 led an inva­sion into Lebanon. 
Bush and his advisers 
intend to take /\rah-Israeli 
diplomacy in a new direc­tion. linking the intractable dispute over the Palestinians' future to other U.S. interests in the Persian Gulf. 
Powell. asked about the possibility of Sharon form­ing a coalition govern­ment, replied: "I don't think it should be the role of the American president or the American secretary of state to tell them what kind of government best reflects the will of the Israeli people." 
One goal of the trip is to ensure continued support of pressure against Iraqi development of weapons of mass destruction. 
Saddam Hussein's neigh­
bors "are the ones who 
are being threatened, not 
the United States. And we 
are helping his neighbors 
deal with the threat that 
he presents to them," 
Powell said on CNN's "Late 
Edition." 

The secretary of state 
did say he thinks there 
"certainly have been some 
fractures" in the alliance 
assembled against Iraq 
during the Gulf War. 

SWITCHING FROM AN 
h~ AVER AGE N E W CAR ·:·;·c,:;,,vTO A13 MPG SUV FOR ONE YEAR WOULD WASTE MORE ENERGY THAN IF YOU . 
-Left your fridge door open for 6 years -Left the bathroom light on for 30 years -Left the TV on for 28 years 
~UVs emit 47% more air pollution and 43% more global warming pollution than the averaoe car. 
-www.sierraclub.org 
CROATIA 

Protestors demand U.N. cooperation 
Associated Press 

SPLIT 
Nearly 100,000 demonstra­tors protested Sunday against the investigation of a former general suspected of war atroc­ities. demanding early elections and a stop to Croatia's cooper­ation with a U.N. war crimes tribunal. 
The rally underscored a building confrontation between the year-old pro-democracy government and its predeces• sor -the nationalist party that ruled Croatia for nearly a decade under the late presi­dent, Franjo Tudjman. 
Protesters were bused from across Croatia to Split. 150 miles south of Zagreb, while three smaller protests were held elsewhere. The giant rally followed days of protests by veterans who blocked key roads in southern and central Croatia. 
Mirko Norac, a former major general, is still at large and has not been formally charged. But last week's opening of an investigation against him in connection with the 1991 mas­sacre of Serb civilians in the central city of Gospic angered veterans of Croatia's 1991 war for independence and their supporters. 
Under Tudjman. Croatians 
were represented as victims in 
the Serb-Croat war of 1991 and 
many people resent the new 
government's attempts to shed 
light on possible atrocities 
against Serbs. 

In a declaration issued after the end of the rally, organizers demanded new, early elections, a stop to investigations of Croat war crimes suspects and an end to cooperation with the 
U.N. tribunal in The Hague, Netherlands. 
Prime Minister lvica Racan told reporters the demands "represent an attack on the government," and accused Tudjman 's party of being behind the "warmongering pol­icy ... (that) represents a snag for Croatia's democracy." 
The crowd -uniformed war 
veterans, pensioners, young peo­ple and a scattering of nuns and priests held pictures of Norac and 
banners declaring: "We all are M i r k o 
Norac." 
Mirko· Condie, head 

of one of the veterans' organi­zations behind the rally, demanded the government resign. 
"By prosecuting Norac, they want to prosecute the Croatian army and the Croatian people," he told the applauding crowd. "Norac can only be tried over our dead bodies." 
Tudjman's party was often accused of condoning Croat war crimes -a notion that brought the country to the 
brink of international sanc­tions. The new government has reversed that policy and has opened several probes into Croat war crimes in Croatia and neighboring Bosnia. 
The 33-year-old Norac, pro­moted to colonel by Tudjrnan in 1992 and to major general three years later, is viewed by many as a war hero. instru­mental in defending Gospic, 125 miles south of Zagreb, from Serb assaults. But prose­cutors say that as a local com­mander, he was responsible for the deaths of about 40 Serb 
civilians 

The U .N. tri­
bunal has also
"By prosecuting Norac, 
issued an
they want to prosecute 
indictment for the Croatian people. former Yugoslav
Norac can only be tried 
President 
ouer our dead bodies. " 
Slobodan Milosevic, for Mirko Condie alleged atroci­ties in the
head of one of the 
crackdown on
veterans' organizations 
Kosovo 
Albanians that 
ended in 1999. 
Although most tribunal sus­pects are Serbs, some Croats also have been indicted for sus­pected atrocities during last decade's wars in Bosnia and Croatia. 
Yugoslavia's new, pro­democracy leadership is under Western pressure to cooperate with the tribunal, and that pressure would also be applied to Croatia's new leadership if it were to turn its back on the 
U.N. court. 

SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES 
at aWORLD-CLASS/GOVERi'™ENT RESEARCH FACILITY 

The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame and Argonne National Laboratory, in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science and Technology (CEST), will award up to 2 summer internships at Argonne National Laboratory for 2001 with afollow-up research appointment on campus in the Fall. Stipend, room and board are provided for the 10-weekprogramat Argonne. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an environmentally-related discipline (@J!. field of study) concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding, assessment, or improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their Junior Year by May 2001, and be registered to return in the Fall of2001. 
For more details, contact Donna Fecher in the Center for Environmental Science and Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. Deadline is February 23, 2001. 
/,._ 
---------------------~----~------------------------------. 
MonJay, February 12, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
MEXICO 
Bush expected to discuss illegal immigration during visit 
Auocia1rd l'rru 
SAN CHISTOBAL 

Wh{rn !'resident Bush comes to this village baked by dust and sun on Friday. he will see newly planted grass, freshly painted walls and gleaming telephone poles that soon will connect San Cristobal to the world. 
Whal he is unlikely to see are the village's poor peasants and the bleak choice they have long lived with: Work for the family of President Vicente Fox for subsistence wages, or cross ille­gally into the United States to try to make their fortune. 
Illegal immigration is expect­ed to figure at the top of the agenda when Fox and Bush meet on the U.S. president's first foreign trip. It would be hard to find a more appropriate place to discuss it. 
Hita Cruz, 23, said almost all the men in.San Cristobal are either in the United States or have spent years there. Seven of her nine brothers are there, as arc two uncles and countless cousins. 


"There are no men here, only little boys," she said. "You can find work, but it pays very little. They leave with the hope of corning back with some money so they can do something here." 
It's hard to do much with the wages paid by the Fox family. which is pretty much the only employer in town. Laborers currently make about $8 a day, better than in many rural com­munities in Mexico, but hardly a living. 
Ausencio Nila. 80, sat in front of his house holding a cowboy hat and a warped wooden cane. lie is crippled by rheumatism. he says from more than 40 years of working in the fields of the Fox family. 
Six years ago, when he could no longer walk, he said he asked his boss -Fox's brother Jose -whether he could retire. 
"He told me I was a day laborer. and he couldn't help me in any way," Nila said. 
His boss eventually agreed to give him $9 a week as a pen­sion. 
"God is very powerful, and that's why my wife and I are still alive. And because of my Fox concedes that would take three children in the United decades. Many in San Cristobal States," he said. "They're the are skeptical even of that. reason I have this house. "That would be tough," said because with the miserable pay Leocadio Cruz Ramirez, Rita's from the boss ... " father. who has made two trips 
On Sunday, Fox said the to the United States. "We'll wages his family paid weren't keep on going up -illegally." the issue. He had harsh words for Bush, 
"We have to stop talking saying the best thing the U.S. about (my) family's salaries. president could do for San Indeed, there is a lot of migra­Cristobal would be to hand out 
tion here," he said. "These arc young peo­ple fighting for a future. They are young peo­ple who we admire and respect very much. who don't go to the United States for pleasure. They go because they haven't had some visas. 

" H e ' I I "You can find work, but it come here with just his
pays very little. They 
passport,

leave with the hope of right?" he 
coming back with some said. "Well. I say the way
moeny so they can do 
we treat him 

something here. " is the way he should treat us."
Rita Cruz 
Fox has

San Cristobal resident 
said he plans to lobby Bush for a 

opportunities here." visa program that would allow 
Fox, who has called illegal Mexican workers to cross legal­immigrants "heroes" and said ly into the United States to he understands their motiva­work temporarily -an idea tion, is expected to urge Bush that has received support from to help Mexico raise its salaries the Bush administration and to the point where it wouldn't Republican members of be worth anyone's while to Congress. head north. San Cristobal has gotten a 


sul~ing alone. Come vent 4our frustration in o more construdive manner with 4our 
friends and staff at the Alumni-Senior Club l~is Wednesday Night. 
Must be 21 or older with valid i.d. 
Three Rivers stadium in Pittsburgh de-stroyed 
Associated Press 
PITTSBUHGH 

A cloud of dust went up, and Three Rivers Stadium came down. 
Sunday marked the end of one of the nation's best-known stadiums -site of one of foot­ball's most famous plays and a Pittsburgh pro sports resur­gence in the 1970s. 
Thousands of onlookers cheered the implosion of the 30-year-old home of the Pirates and Steelers. Experts loaded 4,800 pound of dynamite into the mammoth circular stadium last week to clear the way for separate baseball and football stadiums nearby. 
The stadium's western wall tumbled inward and the rest of the structure collapsed into a cloud of dust. The $5.1 million major facelift. beginning in 1995 when Fox was elected governor of Guanajuato state. Workers laid gravel down on the streets, brought in electrici­ty and septic tanks and put park benches in the square. 
After Fox won the presidency on July 2, the workers returned -this time with the idea that Bush would visit l'or a Mexican holiday on Nov. 20. But with the outcome of the U.S. election still in doubt, Bush never made the trip. 
This time. the phone compa­ny brought in a tower and strung lines -they haven't hooked them up yet, except to the Fox ranch -built and painted walls in front of the shacks and even planted mani­cured squares of grass that look foreign in the desert cli­mate. 
The town square is probably the only one in rural Mexico with sorted trash cans for recy­cling. 
But San Cristobal is still a long way from losing its rural feel. On Sunday, while Fox was in church, two boys on a single horse loped past the Fox family estate and down the main road. 
Several dozen goats followed lazily. 
implosion lasted about 19 sec­onds. 
"This is a very bittersweet day for me," Mayor Tom Murphy said. "I remember being here at the last baseball game of tho '95 season when we weren't sure that we were even going to have a team any­more." 
Three Rivers opened in 1970 at a cost of $36 million. It immediately boosted the Pirates and Steelers. 
After moving in at midseason, the Pirates ended a 10-year championship drought by win­ning the first of their nine divi­sional titles. They also won two NL pennants and World Series titles in 1971 and 1979. 
The Steelers soon became a dynasty. winning four Super Bowls in six years and churn­ing out several llall of Famcrs. 
The stadium also saw one of the most famous plays in NFL history, a wildly deflected touchdown pass from Terry Bradshaw to Franco Harris in a 1972 playoff game that was instantly dubbed the "Immaculate Heccption." 
r-----------'\
49¢g~~~s
single-sided on 8.5' x 11' 28 lb. paper. You'll be amazed by the quality. 
COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
On the Campus of the University of Notre Dame 
Call 631-COPY 
FREE Pick-Up &Delivery 
See store for details. Coupon required. Hurry -expires 2/14/01. 
\ Not valid with any other ofter or discoun/
'----------­

VIEWPOINT 
~HE 
page 8 '--.J't>SERVER Monday, February 12, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bux Q. Notre Datne, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norrc: Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith 
SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER> Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR; Mike Gunvillc WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITORI Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENEIW. lNF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVER'nslNG ..................................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF......................................,.631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................63)-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. I@nd.edu 
VIEWl'OINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observcr.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMs/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:llobsnver.,u/.edu for daily updates ofcamp115 news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
weekly srudenc reviews
minute forecasts 
onlinc reatures for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage
and races of prim ads 
about 1hc Observer
archives to search for 
ro meet the editors and 
anicles published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the UniversiryofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accuracdy and objeccivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Edicor, Assistanr Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries. leccers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions ch rough leccers is encouraged. Leners ro rhe Editor must be signed and must include concacr information. 
Q~sriom r?garding Obu:rva-po/i,i,s shcmid b, direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Ctmnolly. 

Give a valentine's gift from the heart 
Fate is all fine and dandy. No one is discounting fate. Anyone who's ever read "Oedipus Rex" knows not to mess with fate; your eyes get gouged out; you are tormented. It's not a good idea to mess with fate my friend. But fate is a tricky 
Anna Barbour
business, you can't take it lightly, but on the other hand, you've got to leave 
Get a Life 
room somewhere for free will. 

You can never be certain who your soul mate is in advance, you know. You can't just sit back and expect soul mates to do every­thing for you. You have got to be actively involved in the formation of your own life. however it is fated to go. You've got to say things like, "You stay alive; I will find you," or do things that make your soul mate say "You had me at hello ..." or when asked, you've got to say your soul mate is "worth dying for." 
Now, it's the Valentine's Day time of year, everybody's getting all mushy again from last Valentine's Day time, which is completely wonderful. It really is. But strange, at the same time, because how can you be mushy at the exact same time every year? 
Anyhow, about fate, it's a dangerous thing and some people arc sadly con­fused about what fate actually means. Fate means that if you do the thing you are fated to do, you have a hundred per­cent probability that that thing will play out the way it is fated. Fate does .not mean that if you sit in your room all day, playing video games. your life is still fated to be highly exciting. When you're passive. then you're not active and when you are not active, you can't be said to be doing something, can you? 
Ifyou are fated to be president but you never run for the election, you have just used your free will to negate your des­tiny. If you never give blood or help your fellow citizens in some way, you can't really say you are pro-human beings. 
Now, some people really are not pro­people and they show it by the amount of time and money they give to more furry, more leggy creatures. This is not to say that it is right or wrong to be pro-human. but if one is destined to be for people and not against them, he or she ought to do . something for them. Something like giv­ing blood. 
At this time of month, for goodness sakes, it's perfect. Blood i.e. heart i.e. Valentine's Day. On top of such a close connection, February has been designat­ed American heart month so along with giving your loved one a dozen red roses (a dozen roses always makes a nice V­day gift), why not donate a pint of the real red stuff? 
Now, being that it's the Valentine's Day time of year, the personal aspect of fate must take center stage. One more time. I will go over this fate business. Ifit is Valentine's Day and you think you are fated to have a wonderful evening with the person of your dreams, but you never call that person, if you never do anything for that person. all I have to say is good luck because you will need it. On the other hand, if it is Valentine's Day and you think you are forever destined to be alone on this day o· love. but you go to a party anyway or finally send a card to that special "friend," your chances of being alone forever are not so good. 
Some say there is no escaping destiny, but I think that sometimes it is easy to escape your destiny especially ifyou don't do anything about it. 

Anna Barbour is a junior theology and pre-med major. Her column appears euery other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


The introduction to Peyton Berg's interview of Chris Zorich in the Feb. 9 Observer contains an unfortunate and very sloppy assessment of "athletes." While trying to credit Zorich for his "Christopher Zorich Foundation," Berg paints all ath­letes with a wide brush, saying that we are "in an age where athletes routinely find themselves in trouble with the law." 
Certainly he doesn't intend all athletes from pee wees to the pros, does he? So who does he mean? Professional ath­letes? College and professional? Would that include our No. 1 ranked women's basketball team, that lawless bunch? Perhaps he only means "high profile" athletes whose lives are scrutinized by the media, because we the public pay an unhealthy amount of attention to them as people. 
And what does he mean by routine? He seems to be saying that these athletes (whoever they are) are individually fre­quently in trouble with the law. Does he have any idea how many athletes there are in the world? Even limiting himself to the NFL, NBA. NHL and Major League Baseball. Mr. Berg can't be saying that all of those guys are a bunch of recidivist criminals, can he? 
Or does he mean to say, "In an age where the headlines routinely feature celebrity athletes in trouble with the law. Zorich instead ... "? Such a statement would make a lot more. sense to me and would be fairer to Mr. Zorich's teammates and the many other athletes in the world, very few of whom make the headlines and very few of whom are criminals. 
Joe DeMerit 
Graduate student February 9, 200 I 
DILBERT 
SMILE I IT WON'T 
HURT. 


SCOTT ADAMS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Remember, to hate, to be violent, is demean­ing. It means you're afraid ofthe other side of the coin -to love and to be loved.,, 
James Baldwin author 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE
Monday, February 12, 200 l 

BSERVER 
page 9 

I want someone to get shot (by cupid) 
Wednesday is Valentine's Day. I'm alrnady dreading it. 
Tho olhor 11 1/2 months of tho year, a dozen roses go for less than $20. Now I'll bu lucky to find them for less than $30 and double or oven triple that if I want them delivered. Then rhave Mike Marchand 
to buy a card. The real nice ones, gold­
Questionable

plated with fancy let• 
Freedoms

lering and a really romantic poem inside, 2000 which can run up to six dollars. For one card. That's a lot more than the cards I usually get, which feature some crude cartoon and usually an even cruder joke involving some disgusting bodi­ly function. But at least those are funny; good Valentine's Day cards aren't even funny at all. 
i\nd after I've purchased those, I need 

lo gel a heart-shaped box of can• dies, a stuITcd teddy bear, a bot­tle of massage oil, some aro­
rfl

matic candles, some jewelry and a bottle of wine and then before l know it, I've got more gifts than I can hold and a maxed-out cr<idit card. 
But that's not the problem. The prob­lem is I have no one to buy them for. 
1wouldn't ordi· narily care -I don't mind being single. I don't have time around classes and everything else I do lo have a seri­ous relationship and I don't have the money lo buy nice things or go to dinner at any­where more expensive than 
'!}tho dining hall. ("You want cheese on your Whopper'?! 1don't have that kind or money!") 
But being alone on Valentine's Day is just unfair. Every other commercial on televi­out with mo tonight?" Meanwhile. her psy­
cho radar is screaming red alert. 
When you're single and don't want to be on Valentine's Day, it seems like everyone you know has somebody. My best friend is married. My ex is practically engaged. My twice-divorced father is living with some­one. My sister has an Internet relationship. Evon my dog has a "special friend." I swear Cupid is laughing at me behind my back. You think I'm joking? I got an e-mail from a female who said she wanted to get to know me. After I rifled ofT an interested response, she sent me an invitation to see her homepage at lookatmeiamnaked.com. "Ha ha, Mike, I'm shooting everyone else with my arrows of love. You get a knife in the back and a kick in the ... " Okay, so maybe that's a bit too over-the-top. 
Everyone tells me that I shouldn't worry about long-term relationships right now. Of course they're right, but I can't help won­
sion has something to 
y Ber father was an alum­do with the holiday. Give nus. so she should have these !lowers to show how known bettor than to even much you love someone. ask. Buy this llallmark card to But one thing I do know is show how much you love some-that nobody loves a whiner. one. Get this expensive necklace to Complaining is just so un-sexy. So 
' 

dering. My high school could have been called "Children of ND/SMC i\cademy." Scott Little reported (, that 2/3 of all Notre Dame stu­dents marry other Domers. Perhaps that's an exagger­ation, but obviously there's a stereotype. 
Is it so wrong that I want my future special someone to be a fel­
low student? Someone who under­
stands the mystique and beauty of the campus? Someone 
who knows how poor l'U be after graduation? Someone who 

' 
knows that Saturdays in autumn are off­limits to extracur­ricular activities? My ex wanted me 
to skip the USC game in 1999 ­which turned out to 
be a thrilling come­back victory -to come up and see her 
a day early. Then, 

after we broke up, she wanted me to blow the Nebraska game to go to 
('() her friend's wedding. 

show how much you love someone. If 
you don't love someone. buy stuff and 
maybe someone might love you. 
I don't mind tho barrage of commercial­ism; l love splurging and being romantic. i\sk my last girlfriend. I bought her so many things I had to sell one of my kid­neys. She had started a small teddy bear collection; l singlehandedly turned it into tho Teddy Boar Smithsonian. She could have made a dress out of the petals from all of tho roses I gave her. (Don't think that idea never crossed my mind.) I had to siphon gas to make it back to South Bend. 
But when you're not seeing anyone, Valentine's gifts are a tad inappropriate. ~Hi. l sit behind you in theology and, uh. here's some roses and some candies and ­oh, here, look! Hallmark teddy bears that kiss magnetically! SMOOCH! You wanna go 
what if I'll be the only person alone on The Big V-Day, or if I'm not, I'll feel like the only person alone? It means I don't have to buy big expensive gifts and I can save enough money to possibly ask some­one for dinner at T.G.I. Friday's as opposed to Burger King. It means I can buy a lot of little gifts for a lot of special people. Cupid packs arrows. I'm toting a shotgun -I can hit a wider target. 
Mike Marchand is an off-campus senior English major and a Cancer who enjoys candlelit dinners and long walks on the beach. He just wants to mention Nicole Rodgers because she didn't want him to. His e-mail address is Marchand.3@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Broader issues need 
student recognition 
The Campus Life Council, Founder's Day, football ticket distribution, ND/SMC student relations and sociaV24-hour space. These arc the con­cerns that The Observer decided were most pressing to the student body here at Notre Dame and upon which they based their views with regards the upcoming election. Excuse me, but when exactly did I get to be so vapid? 
My apologies if I am completely wrong in this (and I sincerely hope that I am not), but I refuse to believe that the Notre Dame student body is so self-centered. Yes, I do realize that there are problems surrounding all these issues. I have spent as much time as anyone else complaining about parietals or about football tickets. But I think these are far from being the most important issues here. In addition, the problem with trying to address things like parietals is that they will probably continue to exist year after year and all these "solutions" won't really do much of anything. In light or this, maybe the average Notre Dame student would like to think about larger issues. 
Here, I'm afraid that my personal feelings about this election are going to intrude, but so be it. The biggest problem I see around here is that Notre Dame seems to have lost its sense of community. One of the things that really attracted me to this school was that it was supposed to be like a family, a Notre Dame Family (as they say every week at Mass). But what kind of family excludes so many of its family members? 
What I am getting at here is that too much of the time we complain about our own minor problems and think of what would make us happy while ignoring those of someone who might have more serious problems. 1 believe that many of the candidates fall prey to this mentality. For exam­ple. there are many of us who aren't Catholic, yet it is suggested that more student body masses would somehow help strengthen our communi­ty. Or what about the problems with race and gender re~atio~s that ?ivide us (and yes, they do exist -why else would we have ol11ces for dcalmg with these problems)? Why are these issues not considered in your evalu­ation of the candidates? 
This having been said, what about tho fact that we arc part of" a larger community, a community that we largely ignorn? Did you ever wonrlc_r why most of South Bend has signs up for Indiana Basketball, but not )or Notre Dame? We here on campus tend to be a bit full of ourselves (with good reason -it is Notre Dame, after all) and as a result, we mi~trcat the community that has to deal with us. This bond wit~ the people ?I South Bend is something that I feel needs to be re-established, and tl11s can only be accomplished through interacting with the people of South Bend and giving back to them. . . , . 
For me, tho only ticket that cares about such issues 1s Dom~tr~ Smith . and Yogeld Andre. The Observer's coverage of the election d1sm1sscs their platform because it docsn 't cater to "issues of broader appeal lo stu­dents." But so what if they don't talk about things like Founder's Day? How many of us really went to that anyway"? Perhaps t~1ey feel ~s I do, that there are larger issues al stake than whether my hfc here 1s us easy and carefree as possible. They want to push me to be a more caring per­son and a better part of this community. They want to make sure that our Notre Dame experience is something that we can be proud of. 
We are blessed to be here at Notre Dame, but I think that making the most our years here depends on more than whether parietals arc abol­ished or not. Perhaps I am being too naive in my idea of what students here will care about. I guess this election will prove me right or wrong. But if you think it's about time for student government to lead us some­where for a change, vote for Smith and Andre on Monday. 
Mikey Angtuaco 
senior 
Knoct Hall February 8, 200 I 



Curing the doldrums 
Ah February in South Bend. Yes. Isn't it lovely? Look outside. Ther~'s dirty, brown snow on the ground. The sidewalks ~~c slushy and wet. The trees are bare. If you can see grass. Its brown. It's dark and damp and cold. 
It seems like all the colors decided to run out to the bar real quick, but didn't invite white and brown because they're no fun. 
Joe Larson
Love is in the air. During this light and bouncy time, many ND/SMC students simply turn to the bottle, 
Scene Writer 

meaning they drink away the drabness of the doldrums and enjoy a type of intoxicat­ed siesta on the weekends in order to dull lhe pain which the doldrums provide. Though a seemingly viable option, this act usually leads to all sorts of _embarrassing behavior from the members of the ND/SMC commumty. 
People drink too much and say things they don't mean or vomit in people's cars and maybe even kiss people they are not exact!Y in love with. These are embarrassing moments that can be easily avoided. . . 
In order to combat another year in the doldrums behaving hke this. many students entertain the idea of gaining a boyfriend/girl­friend. A common idea is that this partner will brighten the drab South Bend canvas, making it into a springtime of sweet, sweet lovin' -as opposed to a drunken series of highs and lows ... 
mostly lows. · . . . 
This SuperPerson will not only provide numerous mterestmg and new activities for said student, but will undoubtedly make the doldrums not only bearable, but, in fact. downright fantastic. 
It makes sense, right? Having a boyfriend/girlfriend is really great, isn't it? You have a person to_ hang out with. T_hey have to listen to the stories that are too bormg to tell your fnends. They do nice things for you. They'll teH you nice things about yourself. People will see the two of you together and think, "Wow. That person has a boyfriend/girlfriend. Maybe that person does have a few redeemable qualities." 
Or, if this boyfriend/girlfriend happe?-s to be really ~ood look­ing, you may become the mysterious pimp daddy you ve always wanted to become. 
People will wonder why that outrageously go~d-looking per~on is with you, and ultimately everyone you come mto conta~t with will be putty in your hand. Plus, they have to make out with you at least three times a week, probably more. . . 
Oh, I forgot, you also get to walk in the quad holdmg hands hke the big dorks you are. 
Granted, these are really excellent things that will probably happen if you find yourself the man/woman_ of you,r dr~ams. Okay, fine. -even though it's good, that st_1ll wont brighten up the utter desolation that is South Bend durmg Feb_ruary. I don t care if your new boyfriend/girlfriend makes out with you five times a week, it won't make the doldrums any more bearable. 
It'll still be cold and damp and crappy all the time. Your socks 
will still get wet through your shoes when you walk to class. We 
aren't talking about a normally bearable situation. In order to. 
properly conquer the doldrums, you're going to need some seri­
ous help. 
You probably still need alcohol. 

So now what do you do? . . . 
Don't panic. All is not lost. There is somethmg that might Just 
be crazy enough to work. You have to combine both theories of 
doldrum relief. You get yourself a boyfriend/girlfriend, and you 
still tum to the bottle. . . 
This way, you still get to forget how miser~ble your hfe 1s ~ut 
you won't have to deal with your embarrassmg drunken actions. 
It's killing two birds with one sto~e. It's fool-proof. , 
Here's the scenario. You and this person whom you ve selected 
will go to a party or bar of your choice -if you are the allotted 
21 years of age -and you both will drink responsibly like 
always. Simple, right? . . . 

When that all-important pomt m an evenmg of alc?hol con­
sumption arrives when you are on the verge of starting to act. 
reprehensibly. this is when the wheels of the pla~ start churnmg. 
This person, who presumably cares about _you, will st.op you from 
ultimate embarrassment. Look at the possible scenarios. 
You probably won't say something mean to ~omeonc ~ecause 
you won't be talking to anyone but your boyfnend/g1rl_fn~nd. 
Couples have the tendency to.cling to each other at this time of 
the evening, so that problem is cured. 

Also your boyfriend/girlfriend will not let you reach for that 
next L~ng Island Iced Tea when it gets too l~te. You won't be 
vomiting in the car if you don't have that drmk. . . 
At three in the morning, they won't want to hang out wit~ your 
friends anymore, so they will m~ke you leave and ~ou won t be 
able to have that next drink, which would have ultimately cata­
pulted you into stupi~ity. . . • . 
Third, if your girlfnend/boyfr1end 1s there, yo? re no~ gomg to 
kiss anyone you don't love. If you do, then that 1s a maJ_or person­
al shortcoming or triumph, depending oi:i yo?r own beh~fs. 
So there you have it. Get a boyfriend/g1rlfr1end an_d mix !hat 
with some alcohol consumption and even though this won t make 
the South Bend doldrums go away, it may make them just a little 
bit easier to swallow. 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Orchestra to perform at SMC 
By LAURA BOST 
Scene W'riter 
Music enjoyers campus-wide will be treated to the opus of Romantic Italian composer Giuseppe Verdi when the Swedish Radio Symphony Orchestra and Choir performs at Saint Mary's College Feb. 15. 
The splendor of Verdi's 1874 work, "Requiem," will fill O'Laughlin Auditorium in com­me mo ration of the 100th anniversary of the composer's death. 
Verdi's Requiem honors the life of poet Alessandro Manzoni and was originally performed in the Church of San Marco in Milan. Lisa Eberhardt, chair of publicity of the Notre Dame Department of Music, offers insight into the music stating, "The Requiem is unique in that it is prayer requesting the repose of the soul." Eberhardt said. "The intensity of the music's dynam­ics varies dramatically." 
Four soloists, consisting of a soprano, mezzo, tenor and base are featured and the col­laboration of the orchestra and choir produce a memorable performance of Verdi's work. 
The choir, originally estab­attended performances in such illustrious con­lished in 1925 as an a cappella ensemble, con­cert halls as Avery Fisher Hall in New York, thesists of 30 members with extended international Kennedy Center in Washington,music exposure. The accompany­D.C.. and, most recently,ing orchestra has been an ensem­Swedish Radio Orchestra Hall in Chicago. Newble since the late 1930s. These Symphony York Times reporter, Cori Ellison,groups were compiled as the result 
praises the tour as being a
of an upsurge of nationalism and Orchestra "Swedish choral musical." 
in an effort to promote Swedish . February 15, 8 p.m. 
Despite the Swedish Radiocomposers. A devoted 200,000 Symphony Orchestra and Choir'savid Swedish radio listeners have . O'Laughlin Auditorium demanding touring schedule, theassisted the orchestra in obtaining . $3 students Provost Office and the Musica reputable status. In light of their $1 Dsenior citizens Departments of Saint Mary'sincreasing fame, numerous College and the University ofSwedish composers write their $12 adults Notre Dame se.cured a Southpieces especially for the choir and . Tickets available Bend appearanc• following theorchestra's performance. 
group's Chicago performance.
Both groups, whose members through the Saint Mary's The performance b.pns at 8 p.m.
are from Stockholm, Sweden, have Moreau Center Box Office Feb. 15, playing to cr1 anticipatedindependently toured and record­
(219) 284-4626 full house. Tickets cost $3 for stu­ed their music. Their efforts are dents, $10 for senior citizens and encouraged through funding by $12 for adults, and are still available throughthe Swedish government. Currently, the orches­the Saint Mary's Moreau Center for the Artstra and choir are known for their performance Box Office at (219) 284-4626.
of time-honored 
composers and 
unfailingly pro­
duce a dynamic 
musical experi­
ence for their 
audiences. 
These singers, 
celebrating their 

75th anniversary 
together, along 
with the accom­
panying musi­
cians have 
toured Asia and 
Europe and are 
touring the 
United States. 
The orchestra 
conduction is 
currently under 
management by 
a vivacious new 
Austrian mae­
stro, Manfred 
Honeck. 
Consequently, 
the Swedish 
Radio Symphony 
Choir and 
Orchestra have 
received glowing 
reviews from 
their well-


C 
s
en@ 
Monday, February 12, 200 l 
page 11 

Clubs bring out students' special interests 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene W rircr 
You know that guy that sits next to you in Orgo? Yeah, that guy ... sort of quiet, a lit~le shiny. always doing that annoying twirly thing with his pencil? On the sur­face, he may seem to be your average Joe. In fact, that's hLc; name. Joe. Bet you didn't know that. Nevertheless, just by looking at him you'd never guess that Joe is an incredible dancer. We're not talking the drunken grinding and semi-spastic: jerking that dclines "dancing'' at most student parties. Joe can do the Foxtrot. Charleston and the Lindy with the grace of Gene Kelly. But where might this mild mannered gen­tleman learn such a wonderful skill you ask? The Notre Dame Swing Club, of course. 
Surprised'' Well, why should you be? After all, someone has Lo belong Lo the 39 Special Interest Clubs that are officially registered with the University. There are even mo~e if you count the groups that meet without being officially recognized. Never heard of these groups? Not to fear, today Scene takes a look at just a few of the eclectic Special Interest Club offerings: 
The University of Notre Dame Humor 
Artists 
HA! No, thpy're not laughing at you ... no. wait, they are. They're HA!, the Notre Dame Humor Artists. About 20 students meet twice a week in the Hesburgh Ubrary auditorium to compose skits and practice improv games for the three come­dy shows that they perform every year. 
"Well. we all can't take ourselves too seriously, now can we?" asks HA! club co­president Tony Bondi. "Somebody's got to keep things interesting around here." 
"Actually, Ijust have nothing better to do with my time." says Mike Boreale a veter­an of !IA! 
All joking aside (of course, joking is never too far away at a HA·! meeting). the !IA! Club is working hard to produce their latest and greatest show which will pre­miere the weekend of March 3. Later this semester they arc planning to produce a full-length evening murder mystery show that reportedly lampoons, well. everything. 
HA! Meetings are held on Thursdays 
from 7 to 9:30 p.m. and again on Sunday af~ernoons from 2 to 3:30 p.m. Anybody with a sense of humor is invited to take part in the laughter. 
The Notre Dame 
Swing Club 
When you hear big band music. do your feet start tapping uncontrol­lably? The N o t r e Dame Swing Club mem­bers' do too and so th Cy d i d some­th in g about it. In August of 1998, the fledg­ling six ini­tial mem­bers founded the Notre Dame Swing Club. "We really loved to dance and wanted to find others who shared our interest in swing dancing," says club pres­ident Angie Bauer. 
By activities night of their first year, the Swing Club had signed up 600 interested dancers! There really is no membership in the Swing Club. Rather, the club gives $1 lessons on Monday nights from 9 to 11 
p.m. every week in room 301 of the Rock. Regulars estimated that about 15 couples are present per lesson. 
In fact, tonight is the beginning lesson of the Lindy Hop, another cleverly disguised name for the Jitterbug. On Feb. 19, there will be a free open dance at Lafortune. You'll want to get in early this semester so you can start going to the off-campus excursions the Swing Club has planned. 
Molly's Club 
By far the most interesting Notre Dame 
club is known only as "Molly's 
Club," a title that allegedly 
refers to Badin Hall resi• 
dent Moily McShane. 
While the specifics of 
what Molly's Club 
actually does are 
shrouded in mys­
tery. e-mails 
obtained by the 
Observer 
reveal its 
highly orga• 
nized. 
bureaucrat­
ic struc­
ture. The 
group is 
known for 
i t s 
pararnilli­
t eris tic 
bent, dress­
ing their 
members in 
uniforms 
and having
an extensive 
secret code and 
use of symbolic 
language. 
The queenpin, 
Ms. McShane, refused 

all attempts by the 
Observer for an interview; 
however. we were able to 
speak with one of the initiate 
Molly's Club underlings. He/she would only speak with us on conditions of anonymity and only identified his/herself as Freshmeat said, "It all started last year when Molly would wander into our rooms and talk with us ... but it became some­thing more, much more. Pretty soon Molly was talking about taking Molly's Club cam­pus-wide." 
And campus-wide it went. On Activities Night 2000, Molly slipped undetected through security and set up a table from which to recruit minions for her ever­growing underworld. Although still not officially recognized by the University, Molly's Club is rumored to be lobbying for funding. rn fact. two names on the ticket for student body president are reputed Molly's Clu~ members; a third allegedly has strong ties to the organization. Molly's Oub would neither confirm nor deny the allegation. 
The exact number of the members of the organization is sketch. Most estimates run at about 40. Although their stylish Molly's Club T-shirts denote more vocal members of the cl_ub. the number of grassroots sup­porters 1s vague at best. If you wish to join Molly's Club, don't bother trying to call them. They'll call you. 
Whether your secret passion is juggling. figure skating or playing the Bagpipes, Notre Dame probably has a club that fil<; your interests. If they don't, you can make one. Just stop by the Student Activities· Office and file for club status. 
Luckily, life at Notre Dame is much more complete than your understanding of your Orgo book. Underneath the layers of nor­malcy lie people who are into the samP cool stuff you are. Who knows? Maybe if you're nice. Joe will take you out dancing. Now, if he'd just stop spinning that darn pencil. 


Monday -"Gilda," $2 admission, Annenburg Auditorium, 7 p.m. -Sophomore literary Festival: Dana Gioia, "Can Poetry Matter?" laFortune Ballroom, 7 p.m.  Tuesday -"The Gingko Tree," International Film Festival (Korea), Montgomery Theater in Lafortune, 7 -9 p. m. and 9-11 p.m. -Sophomore Literary Festival: Student Coffee House, LaFortune Ballroom, 8 p.m.  Wednesday -Sophomore Literary Festival: WP Kinsella, author of "Shoeless Joe," LaFortune Ballroom, 8 p.m.  Thursday -Acousticafe, LaFortune Student Center, 9 -11:30 p.m. -"Girlfight," 155 Debartolo, $2 admission, 10:30 p.m. -"The 6th Day," 101 Debartolo, $2 admission, 10:30 p.m.  
Friday -"Girlfight," 155 Debartolo, "The 6th Day," JOI Debartolo, $2 admis­sion, 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. -Blak Ko/fee House, $3 admission, LaFortune Ballroom, 8p.m.. -Junior Parents Weekend~  Saturday -"Girlfight,,, 155 Debartolo, "The 6th Day," 101 Debartolo, $2 admission, 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. -Junior Parents Weekend- Sunday -Chess Games, North Dining Hall, 5:30-7:30 p.m. ~Junior Parents Weekend­ 

Monday, February 12, 2001
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA ALL-STAR GAME 

East overcomes 21-point deficit to defeat West 111-110 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Turns out the West isn't all that better than the East. Anyone who said so this season -and anyone who said so early in the fourth quarter Sunday -spoke a little too soon. 
Allen Iverson turned that notion on its head with an outstanding fourth-quar­ter performance that transformed the NBA All-Star game from a blowout into a thriller as he led the Eastern Conference to an improbable 111-110 victory. 
Iverson scored 15 of his 25 points in the final nine minutes, and Stcphon Marbury hit two 3-pointers in the final 53 seconds as the East came back from a 21-point deficit. 
While presenting the MVP award to Iverson, NBA commissioner David Stern, with a sly grin on his face, told Iverson that great basketball "can be wrapped -if you pardon the expres­sion -in very small packages." 
The comment was a clever reference to Iverson's height -he is an inch or two shy of 6 feet -and Ivcrson's rap album, which was criticized for its lyrics and led to a meeting with the commissioner. 
The East trailed 95-74 with nine min­utes left after the West dominated the first 39 minutes of the game behind its superior size. 
It appeared the game would come out looking like a mismatch that would back up all the Western Conference superiority theories that have been thrown around so frequently this sea­son. 
But the East started pecking away, and Iverson walked over to the scorer's table during a timeout and asked if any­one wanted to wager whether the East would make a comeback. 
That's exactly what the East proceed­ed to do. with Jerry Stackhouse and Vince Carter making 3-point shots that were followed by a three-point play by Iverson to cut the West's lead to 100­96. 
Iverson scored the East's next two points from the line, and Tracy McGrady tied it on a putback with 3:10 left. 
Iverson scored the East's next five points, and a chant of "M-V-P! M-V-P!" was heard after his two foul shots gave the East a 105-104 lead. 
But that chant might have revved up someone else. instead. 
Someone named Kobe Bryant. 
In a down-the-stretch performance reminiscent of his play tn the Lakers' Game 4 overtime victory over Indiana in last year's NBA finals, Bryant kept get­ting the ball and putting it in the bas­ket. 
His short jumper made it 106-105, and his 20-footer gave the West a 108­105 lead with a minute left. Marbury, ecstatic over making his first All-Star appearance, tied on a 3-pointer with 53 seconds left. 

Bryant answered right back with another jumper. but Marbury did him one better with another 3-pointer that gave the East a 111-110 lead with 28 seconds left. 
The West set up for a final shot after inbounding with 10.9 seconds left. Bryant got the ball, but with everybody in the building expecting him to shoot -his injured teammate Shaquille O'Neal was probably certain of it ­Bryant faked Marbury off his feet and then threw the ball to Duncan for a short shot that missed just before the buzzer. 
"I was actually expecting him to shoot," Duncan said. "I was wide open, he got me the ball and I should have finished it. It just didn't go down. It was a great final four minutes." 
Prior to that, it was almost an embar­rassment for the East. 
How bad was it? They fell behind 11­0, committed 10 turnovers in the first quarter and seemed incapable of stop­ping any of the big men from the West. 
The starting frontcourt of Duncan, Chris Webber and Kevin Garnett fin­ished with 14 points apiece, although Duncan was scoreless and Webber and Garnett had only two apiece in the fourth. 
Iverson finished with 25, Carter had 16 and Ray Allen 15. Dikembe Mutombo grabbed 22 rebounds. 
Bryant led the West with 19. 

Despite the lopsided first quarter, there was an early defensive intensity of the type seldom seen in All-Star games. 
McGrady swatted away Bryant's first shot, a jumper, and Duncan retaliated by rejecting a dunk attempt h.y McGrady. 
But while the West quickly recovered by pounding the ball down low, the East kept up its mistake-prone ways and errant outside shooting to such an extent that it was 11-0 by the first com­mercial break. 
A Webber-to-Garnett alley-oop play made the score 15-2, and the West took a 30-17 lead into the second quarter thanks in large part to 10 turnovers by the East. 
The East started to run more in the second quarter with Allen scoring nine of their first 11 points. · 
Carter spun 360-degrees in the air ­just like he did in last year's dunk con­test -for a dunk that made it 45-36 with five minutes left in the half. 
Carter converted a three-point play with 2:27 left in the half to make it 49­44, then slammed home a crowd-pleas­ing windmill dunk that made it a three­point game. 
The West's Jason Kidd hit a wide­open 3-pointer from the corner before sinking a shot from behind midcourt at the halftime buzzer to make it 61-50. 
Bryant bounced an alley-oop pass to Garnett off the backboard early in the third quarter for a one-handed slam that gave the West a 69-54 lead, and Antonio McDyess closed the quarter with a follow slam to give the West an 89-70 lead entering the fourth. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ac the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righc to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

All the good homes are not gone!  1242 tor assistance or leave mes- Bloated goat, brass monkey, what- Hold up.  
LOST & FOUND  FOR RENT  Available 4 bedroom. Available 2 bedroom. Dave 291-2209  sage on the reservations line 219­273-IVYND (4896)  ever, they're all the same  This is a hold up.  
macos@michiana.org  Nothing like great conversations in  JB is here.  
- out-of-state bars. (Even it you don't  
SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED:  3-5 bedroom homes close to  Rooms for rent & share home. 65­ PERSONAL  remember the whole thing in  Well,  
For a lost gold and silver bracelet  campus  232-2595  75 week includes utilities and cable  chronological order.) Thanks for a  I left you a message at 6 am. Didn't  
with alternating silver and gold  mmmrentals@aol.com  233-4013  VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS!  great weekend.  you gel ii?  
blocks, if found please contact  VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS!  
Rachel Phillips at 4-1492  BED AND BREAKFAST In private  CONDOS FOR RENT FOR JPW  Tell that guy to stop shooting so  To my silly little weirdo,  
or email phillips. 75@nd.edu  home for JPW & Graduation  VISITORS: Why not reserve ­ Send your sweetheart a Valentine  much.  Go India and hot chicks. Wear  
Weekends; 3 bdrms w/private bath  close to ND -a fully fully fur- classified in The Observer.  those shoes with pride.  
in lovely neighborhood 10 min. from  nished condo containing kitchen  Deadline is 2 p.m. 2/13.  Laura,  --Your panda  
Suppressed Oead Sea Scrolls &  campus. 234-2626.  with refrigerator, microwave, dis- Thanks for the Valentine's day food.  
Nag Hammadi Codices Research:  posal, dishware, laundry facility and  Clocks In the bathroom, dressers  You rock ... sort of.  'Night all  
BLACK FEMALE ROOMMATE IN  fireplace on the comer of Ivy Rd. &  pulled out from the wall.  
http:/lwww.geocities.com:80/Athens  CASTLEPOINT APTS.  Edison Rd? Available for extended  what happened alter I went to  I'm gonna beat you.  Bye  
lflhodes/7031 /deadsea html  $350  271-7195  stay or for weekends. Contact  sleep?I  I'm gonna beat you.  Bye  
Unicorn Management at 219-232­ 

Monday, February l 2, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
MEN'S 8ASKETBAU 
Williams scores 23 to lead No. 3 Duke past N.C. State 
Coasl Conference) had beaten opponents. and drawing fouls. Iowa State lead to 60-56 with
Auod.ared Presa 
the Wolfpack by just six in "With Kareem hurt, I give 4:35 left. That's when Tinsley Raleigh a month ago, but my vote back to Tinsley as the went to work.
DURHAM. N.C. Iowa State 72, Missouri 64
stormed to a 20-point halftime best player in the league," Guarded by freshman Wesley
Duke has decided to start Even without its two best
lead and then made eight Missouri coach Quin Snyder Stokes, Tinsley drove past him
laying the groundwork for a players, Missouri proved to be
straight shots and 11 of 12 to said. "I think he has the ability for two baskets, sank four free
solid foundation in the NCAA a handful for No. 12 Iowa 
start the second half to go up to dominate a game. It's pretty throws and fed Rancik for a
Tournament now. State.
by 30 with 11:02 left. tough when they're ahead layup in transition as Iowa
After a couple of mediocre Iowa State needed Jamaal
Battier called the game a down the stretch and the ball State stretched the lead to 72­
games by Duke standards, the Tinsley's strong play down the
turning point in the team's is in his hands." 61, more than enough to with­
No. 3 Blue Devils shot 53 per­stretch to turn back the short­
season. Rush. the Big 12's leading stand a final 3 by Grawer.
cent. forced 24 turnovers and handed Tigers and stay in first
"This is the time of year a lot scorer, is lost for the season
used a 17-0 first-half run to place in the Big 12, a half­
of teams get the February with a thumb injury and
roll over North Carolina State. game in front of Kansas. Fresno State 86, Hawaii 63
blahs." Battier said. "A lot of Gilbert has been suspended
Jason Williams, coming off a Martin Rancik returned after Fresno State turned up the 
teams look forward to March indefinitely.
pair of season-low eight-point rolling his right ankle in the defensive pressure to get back
Madness and as a result slide They have accounted for 49
games against Florida State first half to lead Iowa State at Hawaii.
in February. We looked at this percent of Missouri's points
and Clemson. scored 23 as with 23 points and Tinsley Melvin Ely scored 22 points
game as a pivotal point in get­and combined for 75 points
Uukc's starters all hit double scored eight of his 18 in the and No. 23 Fresno State forced
ting better for March." when Missouri beat Iowa State
figures. final 4:17 to secure the 26 turnovers in the victory.
Battier saw a marked differ­112-109 in four overtimes last
"This is the Duke team that. Cyclones' 33rd straight victory MDefensivcly, our guys played 
ence in the Blue Devils on both month. Iowa State has won
we're going to be," said at home. an incredible game," coach 
ends of the court. eight straight since then. but
Williams. who was 8-for-12 "We knew what type of team Jerry Tarkanian said. "But
"We haven't been attacking," ISU coach Larry Eustachy was
from the field and had eight Missouri was, so we weren't offensively, we still need work.
Battier said of Duke's play the not pleased.
assists. "In college basketball, really surprised by how well We had just way too many
last two weeks. "We had been Eustachy thought his team 
you have four or five months they played," Tinsley said. turnovers." 
playing like we had already lacked the kind of effort need­
and then it's going to be over. "They are well coached and Eleven days earlier, Hawaii 
earned something and got out ed to stay in contention for the
It feels like March is getting have a lot of young talent. We snapped Fresno State's 13­
of character by slowing it championship, which Iowa
here quicker and quicker so knew that they could be dan­game winning streak with a 
down. Today, we really pushed State won last season.
you've got to live every day gerous." 91-73 home victory.
it up and kept firing shots. "We're just stuck in the mud
like it's your last when you They were. "Their pressure got to us 
When we missed we kept fir­right now," said Eustachy, who
step on the court with your Missouri (15-8, 6-4 Big 12) much more today than it did in 
ing." called himself "Dr. Doom." 
team. fought back from a 10-0 deficit the first game,'' Hawaii coach 
Williams and Battier had two "To say I'm not disappointed,
"You have to treat every and played gamely in its first Riley Wallace said. "We knew 
3-pointers each during the I wouldn't be telling the truth. 
game now like it's a tourna­appearance without its top two we had to take care of the ball ment game," added Williams. early second-half scoring spree scorers, Kareem Rush and What you're supposed to say is and we didn't. Our guards had as Duke made five straight what a great game, this and
"If you lose it, your season is Clarence Gilbert, mainly 14 turnovers between them." 
long-range shots and 13-of-29 that, we fought back. I don't
done. That makes you play the because of Brian Grawer's Fresno State (20-3. 9-1 WAC) 
besl you can play." from beyond the arc for the eight 3-pointers. feel that way right now and reached 20 victories for the 
game. our team shouldn't. 
sixth consecutive season under

Nate James added 19, while But the Tigers just didn't 
The win keeps the Blue "We had a lot of break­
Shane Battier had 18 and have enough firepower to Tarkanian. 
Devils one game behind No. 1 downs. a lot of mistakes."
Carlos Boozer chipped in 17 in overtake Iowa State (21-3, 9-2) It is Tarkanian's 29th 20-win 
North Carolina in the race for in the second half. and they Grawer scored all of his 24 season, one shy of the record
fronl of members of the 1991 
the ACC regular-season crown points on 3-point baskets, one
national title team. who were didn't have anyone who could held by Dean Smith. 
and gives them 51 straight vic­of which came during a 9-0 Ely also had nine rebounds
honored at halftime. stay with Tinsley. a master at . 
tories over unranked league run that chopped a 13-point and four blocks.
Duke (22-2. 10-1 Atlantic taking the ball to the basket 

"BRINGING THE ARTS TO LIFE" 
DANA GIOIA will be speaking about her essay collection 
"CAN POETRY MATTER?" 
8-10 pm in the Lafortune Ballroom, Today Monday, February 12, 2001 

Don't forget about tomorrow..... Student Coffeehouse Lafortune Ballroom Tuesday, February 13 8-l0pm signups in 201 Lafortune (sub) 

www.nd.edu/-sub 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 12, 200 I 
XFL appears to be more about TV ratings than football 
The XFL, man. 
I don't know who I was talk­ing to when I muttered that in the direction of my computer 10 seconds ago, but it does sum up the feel­
ings of a sports fan trying to figure out what to make of this new football league. 

There have been Ted Fox 
two weeks ofXFL action Fox Sports ... 
now, com­Almost plete with every­body's favorite WWF play-by­play voice, Jim Ross, yelling about some "hellacious" hits, and I'm wondering: 
Are you setting your VCR to tape the Chicago Enforcers game yet? Are you making plans to road trip down to Orlando and catch the 2-0 Rage in action? 
Maybe you are, maybe you aren't, but I have formed a cou­ple of my own opinions so far. 
First, what's good about the new league: it gives players, coaches, trainers and anyone else associated with football teams who haven't made it in the NFL a chance to keep play­ing. For them, the XFL is a way to stay in professional football and maybe even improve their chances of one day making it to, or for some, back to, the NFL. 
And right about here, my list 
of what I like starts to run pret­
ty thin. 
I'm not going to lie and say 
that watching scantily clad 
cheerleaders doesn't have a 
certain amount of appeal. 
However, that's one of this 
league's biggest problems. 
Every time the camera leaves the perspective of the lacrosse helmet-wearing field photogra­pher and ventures to the some­what uninhibited cheering sec­tion, football ceases to be the focus of the broadcast. 

Sex appeal takes over. Even some of the on-field rules leave me asking: "Why?" 
Take the "Dash for the Ball," which has taken the place of the coin toss to determine pos­session. Matt Duda, a writer on XFL.com, says it: " ... condenses all the attributes that make football the greatest of America's sports into four testosterone-filled seconds." 
Basically, both players start side-by-side, 20 yards away from the ball, the referee tells them when to go, and the guy who comes up with the ball wins. 
Sound a little dangerous? Yeah, but don't worry, there's only been one separated shoul­der so far. Before the game even starts. 
Besides, isn't that a small price to pay to get back to the glory days of smash mouth foot­ball? Back when Vince Lombardi would pick his fastest player to go tearing after the ball placed at Lambeau's 50 N don't you remember those days? 
Neither do I. 
In all fairness to the new 
league, I realize I could be com­
pletely off the XFL black and 
red ball. I took a leisurely 
Sunday walk around my dorm 
and asked someone a lot more 
in touch with football than me, 
Notre Dame junior long snap­
per John Crowther, what he 
thought of Saturday night's 
newest ratings contender. 
"I like to watch football, so I 
kind of like it," Crowther said. 
"But they try to be too flashy, 
almost too much like wrestling. 
I guess that's probably their 
point. The only thing that I 
really like that's different than 
the NFL is when they do the 
Please Recycle The Observer. 

__ '! 6 weeks, 6 credits, as low as $3,000 (based on typical ~Eosts of tuition, room & board, books, and estimated airfare) 2,a'Term 1: May 21-June 29 • Term 2: July 2-August 10 www.summer.hawaii.edu • toll-free 1(800} 862-6628 
University of Hawai'i at Manoa, Summer Sessions 
opening coin toss." 
Damaging testimony from an expert witness. I'm still not a big fan of the dash, though, maybe because I'd be grabbing more turf with my helmet than ball with my hands. 
Furthermore, I'm still not quite sure why the governor of Minnesota is trying to give me analysis. I'm not sure why real football involves putting nick­names like "E-Rupt" on the back of your jersey or having the announcers try to convince us just how legitimate the league is. 
What we have, maybe for the first time in sports history, is a league that was created for TV. This isn't a struggling football league, or even a prosperous one looking to gain exposure by getting TV coverage. And we'd be living somewhere outside of Candy Land ifwe didn't notice the increasing commercializa­tion of all sports, including the NFL (C'mon -the ..MTV Presents the E-Trade Super Bowl Halftime Show"?) 
But the XFL itself, not just its advertising campaign, is a mar­keting ploy, an attitude, com­plete with sex appeal. violence, fireworks, rotating camera angles and smoke. 
Football is merely the means to deliver that WWF image. If bowling could have worked, we'd probably be watching the XBL right now, as guys rolled some hellacious strikes in the true tradition of smash mouth sports. 
Maybe there is some hope. Mike Celizic, a contributor to MSNBC.com, noted how the XFL seemed to violate some of its charge in week two, devot­ing more of it'i time to the game and less to the cheerleaders. Maybe these games could actu­ally be about football eventually and not NBC ratings on Saturday nights. 
Like Crowther told me: "If someone said you could go and play [in the XFL]. I'd probably go play, because it's basically like football. When yo4 get in the game, it pretty much looks the same." 
But if it becomes about foot­ball, will people still watch? When you're created for TV, you better hope so. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The tasty Rodeo Cheeseburger for 99(. 
(Cowboy hat, boots and lasso sold separately.) 

Got the urget 

The delicious, flame-broiled Rodeo Cheeseburger. 
Just ride in, saddle up to the counter and try a tasty, flame-broiled burger topped with melt!d cheese, crispy onion rings and tangy BULL.:8-EYE® BBQ sauce for only 99¢. Hey, at that price you can afford to feed your whole posse on 'em. 
,_________________________________________________ 
Monday, February 12, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS 

ished with a game-high 15 rebounds.
Women 
The Comets were playing without guard Lindseycontinued from page 20 Brunworth, the team's sec­
Kelly Hoherts stepped up her play, scoring 12 points and grabbing three rebounds in a team-high 32 minutes. 
"Kelly really stepped up and toC1k her spot and per­formed," Smith said. 
The Belles built a 23-17 lead midway through the first half before allowing Olivet to go on a 14-2 run. Shaun Hussell hit a three-pointer at the buzzer to pull the Belles within 33-30. 
Olivet forward Louisa Grill scored 14 of her game-high 25 points in the opening half, providing nearly half of her team's offense. Grill also fin­ond leading scorer, who was attending her grandmother's funeral. 
When Grill went out with a knee injury midway through the second half. the Olivet offense fell apart. 
"I have two sophomores leading us in offense," said Olivet coach Audrey Seymour. "When those two kids aren't on the floor, our offense completely stops." 
The victory improves Saint Mary's MIAA conference record to 2-10, which ties the Belles with Adrian College for the worst in the league. Saint Mary's travels to Adrian on Wednesday before playing Kalamazoo on Saturday in the season finale. 
Notes: 

The game marked the final career home game for senior guard Julie Norman. Norman, who finished the game with eight points. is a two-year captain who holds the school record for points scored in one game with her 38-point performance against Defiance on Feb. 13, 1999. 
Norman was honored before the game with nowers as she stood on the court with her parents. 
"There's no better way to go out than on a win," Norman said. "It was a lot of fun to be out there and have it be like my day." 
DO YOU LIKE SPORTS? KIDS? 00 YOU WANT TO GET PAID 
AND 
EARN 3 CREDITS? 

National Youth Sports Program Sponsored by the NCAA 
A program 0£ athletics and enrichment for economically disadvantaged children :Crom the South Bend area. 
Training dates: June 18 -22 Prograin dates: June 25 -July 27 
• 
Housing provided on campus 

• 
Three meals per day 

• 
Salary of approximately $1 ~200 

• 
Three elective credits 


Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns Application deadline: February 1 9 For additional information, call 63 1-6614. 
page 15 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Georgia Tech upsets No. 6 Virginia, 62-56 
Associated Pre•• 
ATLANTA 
Georgia Tech in the NCAA Tournament? The idea doesn't seem so ludicrous anymore. 
The Yellow Jackets. picked to finish near the bottom of the Atlantic Coast Conference, knocked off another ranked team Sunday. beating No. 6 Virginia 62-56 as Tony Akins scored 19 points and freshman Halston Lane hit two key bas­kets. 
rirst-ycar coach Paul llewitt told his players from day one that his goal was an NCAA bid, even though Georgia Tech hasn't been to the tournament since 1996. 
'"That's our goal," said Akins, who also did a smothering defensive job on Virginia guard Donald Hand. "Coach told us if we don't make the tournament, we haven't accomplished any­thing. If we keep it up, that's where we're going to be." 
The Yellow Jackets (14-8, 6-5 ACC) defeated their second ranked team in six days and fourth of the season. They are tied for third in the conference after sweeping the season series from Virginia. 
Georgia Tech also has victo­ries over Kentucky and UClA to enhance its RPI rating, but senior center Alvin Jones downplayed all the postseason talk. 
"If we lose the rest of our games, we're not going to be in anything," he said. "We've still got five games left and the ACC tournament." 
The Cavaliers (16-6, 5-6) again struggled on the road in league play, losing their second in a row and dropping to 1-5 for the season. 
"We're definitely diITerent on the road, for whatever reason," said Hand, who went O-for-9 from the field and managed only two points. "We did a good job on defense. We just didn't get any shots to fall." 
Before the game, I lcwitt chal­lenged his point guard to shut down Hand. 
"Donald is a great player, don't get me wrong," llcwitt said. "But I told Tony, 'Play like you're better than him."' 
Akins followed his coach's instructions to the letter. Not only did he hit 7 of 10 shots ­making him 23 of 39 over the last three games N he set up the biggest basket or the game. 
Drawing a double-team as he dribbled along the 3-point arc, Akins flipped a pass to Lane. The freshman swished a wide­open 3 with l: 14 remaining for a 58-54 lead. 
"He's a shooter," Akins said. "I don't know why they left him open. but I'm glad they did." 
Actually, Lane had a rough day from long range, missing his first four 3s before hitting the one that mattered most. 
"I got some good looks at the basket, but my 3 wasn't quite as good as it's been in the past," he said. "I was open and I finally knocked down the shot." 
Hand was blocked at the other end by Jones and Virginia was forced to foul after Akins scooped up the loose ball. Ile made both free throws with 58 seconds to go, sealing the victo­ry. 
"You need your point guard to have a real good game, espe­cially on the road," Virginia coach Pete Gillen said. "Obviously, Donald didn't have his best game." 
Lane, who scored 15 points. also made the basket that put Tech ahead for good. llis 15­foot jumper after a timeout gave the Yellow Jackets a 55­54 advantage with 2:33 remaining, the eighth and 'final lead change of the second half. 
After the teams traded turnovers, Virginia had a chance to go back in front. But Travis Watson missed a pair of free throws with 1:40 to go, epitomizing his team's strug­gles at the line. 


Check Us Out II 
~'t:

www.homecitylce.com ~-.... 
Great Job Opportunities!! 
Hiring Stud•nts Patt-Time NOW and Full-Time Ourin11 Summer & Srwaks 
flexible Hours & GREAT eMI! We offer 10-40+ hours/week 
Route Delivery Drivers 
$6.50 -$12.00+ /Hour 
234-5309 
Just Minutes from Campus/! 
We Also Have Facilities Throughout the Midwest 
,...,.__,... 

Nor111Webow.lncl. O,oc;alur.lLL Kw,KoltN.ILL 800.622.G~ B00.642.S9i4 
000.114U11114 II00.457.4423 Altic-, Ind Fl Wayne.i,,d Uma,OH Tollldo, Ott l!004M.8096 100.822 55118 000.8;.10529 l!00.11911.1!()71) 
Bottle CrNlt. Ml hlrllMopollo. IM. P-1-.LL Yolpwoloo, Ind 100 720.3777 II00.765 2742 800.11428904 II00."57.4423 
No Experience Neceuary. Train In one ~ during school and worlc In ~ during summer break. We offer Schedule l"lex(RilllY. Start training !:J.Q!tt. 
Schedule an Interview A.S.A.P. BrinQ a Friend I 
www.homecityice.com 
..... -----­

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 12, 200 I 
WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
King wins three events at Windsor Classic 

By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Last weekend, Tameisha King had a. rather disappointing Meyo Invitational. Although the sophomore All-American won the long jump, she jumped out of the blocks too early in both the 60· meter dash and the 60-meter hurdles and was disqualified, something Irish sprints coach John Millar attributed to anticipating the gun and losing concen­tration. 

This weekend, a focused King made sure it didn't happen again. 
King was nearly untouchable as she won the 60-meter dash. the 60-meter hurdles and the long jump en route to being named the Most Outstanding Female Athlete at the Windsor Classic. 
"Obviously, she bounced back from the week before and had an excellent meet," said Irish sprints coach John Millar. "She showed what she's capable of. We worked on focusing more on the gun instead of anticipating the gun. Now. she has some confidence heading into next week." 
King's 20 foot, 1/4 inch long jump, her best of the season, not only set a meet record, but it also was a provisional qualifying mark for the indoor NCAA championships. 
"She just keeps going further and fur­ther every meet," said Irish field events coach Scott Winsor. 
In the running events, King ran her fastest times in the preliminaries. not in the finals. In the 60-meter dash, she ran a blistering 7 .66 seconds in the prelims and followed that up with a 7.69 in the finals. Meanwhile. in the 60-meter hur­dles, King ran a season-best 8.56 in the prelims and won the event with a 8.62. 
In fact, Millar wasn't even planning to 
run King in the final events. He initially 
wanted to have King run only in the 
prelims, but changed his mind after 
seeing her blow away the field. 
"The way the schedule worked out, 
we didn't really feel she was overdoing 
it," Millar said. "And she wanted to run 
and to have a chance to win. My whole 
intention is to give her opportunities to 
prepare her for the big meets ahead." 
Notre Dame -completely dominated the 
60-meter dash. 
Freshman Ayesha Boyd was hot on 
the heels of King. finishing one hun­
dredth of a second behind the Aii­
American. Boyd's classmate Kristen 
Dodd took third in 7 .88. 
Meanwhile, in the 300-meter dash, 
sophomore Kymia Love took second 
place in 39.8 seconds, while Dodd fin­
ished only two-tenths of a second back, 
capturing third place in 40 seconds. 
"I think the whole weekend was real 
positive," Millar said. "They all ran well. 
the didn't run PRs, but they performed 
well and competed well." 
As they have all season long, the Irish 
dominated the pole vault competition. 
Sophomore Jaime Volkmer won the 
event with a vault of 12 feet. Freshman 
Jill Van Weelden and junior Natalie 
Hallett both cleared 11-1, but Van 
Weelden placed higher because she had 
fewer misses. She finished tied for third, 
while Hallett took fifth. Senior Bethany 
Saint Mary's College presents 
Friday 
February 16, 2001 
8:00 p.m. 
Saturday 
February 17, 2001 
8:00 p.m. 
Little Theatre 
M~ 
' C_~THE !!J..
~-JU...... 
Call the Saint Mary's box office for tldab: 
284-4626 
ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer 

Sophomore Tameisha King gets ready to leap In the long jump event against Michigan State. King set a meet record at the Windsor Classic 
Wilson took seventh place with a 10-6 vault. 
"They're very consistent," Winsor said. "Sooner or later they're going to break out." 
Winsor is excited by the potential of 
his  vault  crew  at  the  Big  East  
Championships.  He  feels  all  four  
vaulters can place.  

"I think it's going to take 10-6 on a first attempt in order to place," he said. "And it's doable. Jaime thrives on com­petition -it motivates her and makes her better. I've h'ad to calm Jill down a few times and let her talent takes over instead of her mind." 
The main reason the Irish competed this weekend was so they could get a closer look at some athletes and try to achieve better qualifying performances for others. 
One athlete in particular that the coaching staff had their eyes on was Ana Morales. They were trying to decide where to enter her in the Big East Championships. 
Morales, who is recovering from a injury she sustained in the fall, raced to fourth place in the 1,000-meter run, fin­ishing in 3:05.1. 
"We're more or less leaning toward running her in the relays," Millar said. "She's coming back from an injury, and she's not fit enough to run. Looking at the performances, I don't think she'll be good enough to score. She raced well this weekend, but it's going to take her a little while to get back in the racing mode." 
The other competitor who used the Windsor Classic as a Big East tune up was Betsy Lazerri. The sophomore pen­tathalete, who has been competing in one or two events per meet, competed in the 60-meter hurdles and the high jump. She took fifth in the high jump by clearing five feet. 
The Big East Indoor Championships are scheduled to begin this Saturday in Syracuse, New York. and Irish coaches are already making preparations for the big meet. 
"Hopefully, with a little rest and not 
trying to overdo it this week, they'll be 
really fired up," Millar said. "The Big 
East is a real strong conference in track 
and field. A lot of it's going to come 
down to how well the girls run and han­
dle the pressure." 
Winsor added, "If we finish in the top 
three, the ladies that we take will have 
done a very, very good job." 
Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents . 
Weekend cost is $60.00 per parent. Whether you stay two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday . 
For reservations, call 219-631-7512 
• • ..
• .. 
• • .. 
. 
•• •••• . . .. . 
.
• •• . . 
Belles' Graf sets record in 800 meter 
By KATIE MCVOY 
Assiscam Spores Edimr 
It was another red letter day for junior Laura Graf as she broke the second Saint Mary's school indoor track record of her career at the University of Chicago five-team meet on Saturday. 
Graf led the Belles with a record­breaking two-minute, 20.32 second 800-meter run, taking second place in the event. She left the event with team support and self­satisfoction. 
"We were really happy with Laura,'' team captain Kara Bergeman said. 
"I felt good," Graf said of her performance. "It was a nice facility and a nice meet. It was fun to go out there and try to break some records." 
Grars time broke a record set in 
1997 by over six seconds by Kelly 
Tutko, who ran tho race in 2:26.89. 
Saturday's meet marked only the second in Grafs career as a Belle. She transferred to Saint Mary's from Augustana College in South Dakota earlier this year. 
So far. she has been successful. 
Two weeks ago at the Lewis 
Invitational, Graf broke another 
school indoor track record in the 
400-meter dash. Her time of 60.08 
shattered a 10-year-old record 
held by Heidi Finniff by more than 
four seconds. 
"[The women on the team~ are all 
very supportive," Graf said. "I hear 
them cheering for me when I run." 
Junior captain Erica Burkett also 
placed in the meet. She finished in 
sixth place in both the 55-meter 
hurdles and the triple jump. 
Bergeman was happy with the 
weekend's results. 
"I thing we did really well," she 
said. "We all set our own goals and 
we all look to do better than our­
selves." 
The team may have felt different­
ly, however. 
"The team overall was a little bit 
disappointed," Bergeman said. 
"But it was really person-specific 
as to whether we were hap.py with 
our performance." 
Five women participated in the 
meet at Chicago, although nine 
attended. 
Injuries during the last week pre­
vented several women from partic­
ipating in the meet. 
"We're still training," Graf said. 
"We're using the [indoor] meets 
really as training for the outdoor 
season." 
The track team will participate in one more indoor meet at the Huntington Invitational in two weeks. 


page 17 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 17, 2001 
Men 
continued from page 20 
19-1 l lead on a trey by lngelsby, the Mountaineers took over with a dominant performance on the boards and a 17-3 run. West Virginia held onto the lead nearly the entire rest of the 
gu.me. 
"We've been in that situa­tion before," lngelsby said. "I don't think anyone on our team had a doubt we were going to win the game. We just stayed poised through­out and wo came out with a big win." 
Murphy finally tied the score at 60 with two free throws and 3:23 to play. 
/\!though West Virginia pulled off a 41-32 rebound­ing edge in the game, Murphy -playing with four fouls -grabbed the next board on a Chris Moss miss. 
With nothing working for tho Irish, lngelsby pushed the ball up the lane, pump faking and forcing Lyles to foul him. The captain then nailed both free throws to give tho Irish a 62-60 lead. 
At the other end, Swanagan picked up his fifth and final foul. Calvin Bowman, who scored 18 for West Virginia, had the shooter's touch, as both foul shots bounced off the front rim and through the hoop. 
When Harold fouled out, that was a big blow," Humphrey said. "It meant that me and Troy both had lo stay in the game. We would give up the easy layup rather than pick up the extra foul. But when it's that tight, you have to lay every­thing out on the line. At that point, you still have to be aggressive." 
The Irish. who didn't go to 
the charity stripe once the 
In The Market For A New Or Used Vehicle? We Can Help! 
Rates As Low As 

OfOAPR* 
whole first half, returned to the line, as junior David Graves was fouled. Graves, limited to eight points on the night. continued a perfect 6­for-6 afternoon at the line by hitting both free throws. 
Bowman nailed a basket in the lane and the follow-up free throw as Humphrey fouled him. The 3-point play gave West Virginia a 65-64 lead, its last of the game. 
Murphy tipped in an lngelsby miss for two of his 15 points. The bucket count­ed, but Humphrey picked up his fourth foul on the play by nailing Bowman, who made one of two free throws to tie the score with 1:16 to go. 
Ingelsby missed a driving shot, but Murphy snagged one of his 10 rebounds. Moss fouled Murphy on the put­back, his fifth foul. Murphy missed the front end. but swished the second shot for a 67-66 lead. 
lngelsby swiped the ball from the Mountaineers on a bounce pass from Berry. Graves was fouled at the top of the key, and dropped in both free throws. His foul shots put the Irish ahead 69­66 with :26.7 to play for the final margin of victory. 
Notre Dame's defense, a stumbling block in the early season. again came up big. After a 52 percent Mountaineer shooting mark in the first half. the Irish limited their opponents to 26 percent in the second stan­za. 
"In the first half, we didn't play defense like we have in the past," lngelsby said. "They played well. They hit some big shots today. We just buckled down defensive­ly in the last couple min­utes." 
Next up for the Irish is a road date with the Rutgers Scarlet Knights (10-11, 2-8) on Wednesday night. 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
sign of how the game would go for the Irish. Dan Carlson and Connor Dunlap both netted goals in a three-minute span, and sud­denly Notre Dame was sitting pretty at 2-0. 
But Bowling Green, with as much riding on this contest as the Irish, brought the score to 2­1 when Curtis Valentine took advantage of the power play. 
Notre Dame has struggled the entire season while a man down. and Saturday night was no exception as the Falcons con­verted on two of their five power plays. 
The second period would go solidly to Bowling Green, which sandwiched two goals by Austin de Luis and Valentine around Ryan Dolder's goal at 10:04. Dolder was assisted by freshman Aaron Gill and Nielsen. 
"We were playing 20 minutes for our entire season," said Nielsen. 
The uneasy 3-3 tie was held for over 19 minutes in the third period. Notre Dame fired 22 shots at Masters in the period, after only 16 shots the rest of the game. The Falcons managed only six shots on Irish goalie Tony Zasowski, as Notre Dame's defenders tightened and kept the puck consistently above the Irish blue line. 
Just when overtime seemed imminent, Carlson, a left winger, flipped a long distance pass to Nielsen from deep inside the Irish zone to assist in Nielsen's go-ahead score. 
"We had a good week of prac­tice, and I knew we had a really good chance to beat Bowling Green," said Zasowski. 
Of course, had the Irish not won Friday night's contest, Saturday would have been a skating exhibition. 
On Friday, Freshman Rob 
Globke had a hand in all three 
~ 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
219/239-6611 www.ndfcu.org Loan-by-Phone 800/567-6328 
*Annual Percentage Rate. Rates are subject to change without notice. Certain restrictions may apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Independent of the University. 

Irish goals, putting two into the net himself, and Zasowski with­stood an especially brutal second period to lead the Domers to vic­tory. 
Head coach Dave Poulin has rotated goalies all season, but Zasowki has received the nod in the last six games. Poulin told the sophomore Zasowki during Thursday's practice he would start over Kyle Kolquist and Jeremiah Kimento. 
"All I could do to prepare was think about the weekend," said Zasowski. "I knew I could play my game and we could win." 
As it has many times this sea­son, the Irish offense was sparked by Carlson. He took a shot on Masters late in the first with Notre Dame on the power play. Globke passed the shot over to the center Dunlap, who quickly scored. 
Early in the second, Notre Dame failed to kill a Falcon power play as Marc Brown put his third goal of the season past Zasowksi. But it was the only shot out of 16 that would find the Irish net in the second twenty minutes Friday. 
Zasowski was solid between 
the pipes, frustrating shooter 
Does your business need an 

'i) 
,i~l 
in today's e-marketplace? 
Put your business on the web quick and easy with 
Steamtunnels.net ! 
Get noticed by millions of potential customers with web aduertising on Ste amt u n n e Is.net, today's most successful online college magazine. 

.. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

.. --·----... -..... -... --................ ,.,. -.. -...... -----.. --. -.. 
after shooter. 
"Seeing Tony make big plays really brought up the play of the team," said Nielsen. "I had a couple of bad shifts in there, and I felt like I owed it to the guys playing well to step up." 
Notre Dame managed only two shots in the second period, but still scored when Hob Globke scored his 13th of the season unassisted. 
The freshman is tied for the team lead in goals with Carlson and Dolder, and sports the best shooting percentage on the team, with 18.7 percent. 
Bowling Green again found the net on a power play when Scott Hewson beat Zasowski at 5:35. The 2-2 tie continued until 12:54, when Carlson once more assisted Globke for the eventual winning goal. 
Having completed its most suc­cessful weekend of the 2000-01 season, Notre Dame looks to continue to roll against nemesis Michigan in Ann Arbor on Friday. The Wolverines gutted the Irish 9-0 on Jan. 23. 
"We can't think about last 
time," commented Zasowski. "I 
know we can do well on Friday 
night." 


-

Monday, February 12, 200 l 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish post strong showing at Windsor Tealll Challenge 
By NOAH AMSTAOTER Assistant Spores Editor 
The Irish men's track team traveled to Canada this week­end to take part in the Windsor Team Challenge at the University of Windsor. The limited group of athletes who made the trip posted impres­sive performances in prepara­tion for the Big East Indoor Championships this weekend at Syracuse. 
Freshman Godwin Mbagwu led the way for the Irish, tak­ing first in both the long jump and triple jump. Mbagwu's leap of 22 feet, 4 1/2 inches in the long-jump was his second­best jump of the season, as was his triple jump of 48-3 1/2. 
Field events coach Scott 
Winsor was impressed with 
Mbagwu's performance as the 
team heads into the Big East. 
"He's doing a fine job. He's 
a pretty good competitor," 
Winsor said. "I think the com­
petition this weekend at the 
Big East is going to be a little 
bit better than what we saw 
up there." 
Sophomore Tom Gilbert, the 
team's top long jumper all 
season, struggled with his 
approach and took sixth. 
Gilbert was also competing in 
the 60-meter dash, which was 
going on at the same time as 
the long jump. 
"It was right in the middle of 
the 60's and he just really got 
fatigued," Winsor said. 'Tm 
not too concerned about him 
having a bad meet in the long 
jump." 
Nick Setta took another gold 
medal for the Irish. placing 
first in the 600-meter run. 
Setta led the race from start 
to finish, winning in a time of 
1:22.74. 
"He ran really well," said 
sprints coach John Millar. "He 
took the race right from the 
start. controlled the race the 
whole way." 
The final Irish top-finisher 
was Brian Thornburg in the 
35-pound weight throw. 
Thornburg's throw of 50-6 3/4 
won the meet, followed by 
teammates John Scolaro and 

Derek Dyer. who took second and third, respectively. 
Thornburg has thrown fur­ther this season, and Winsor expects his top thrower to improve in Syracuse. 
"He's trying to throw too much on adrenaline, and he's kind of losing his focus a little bit on execution," Winsor said. 
In the shot-put, Dyer took second with a throw of 14.91 meters. Winsor expects more in the shot as well. 
"We're still struggling in that event," he said. 
The Irish placed well in the two sprint events. In the 300 meters, freshman James Bracken took third place in a time of 35.40 seconds. Luis Vega Penso and Christian Myers uf York University, who took first and second in the event, are ranked nationally in Canada. 
"Bracken. out of all of them, ran probably the best, and felt the most comfortable running it," Millar said. "I was pleased with his performance there." 
Terry Wray took fifth in the event for the lrish in 35.64 seconds while William "Red" Croker took seventh, running 36.11. 
"I thought they ran pretty well," Millar said. "Not only was it their first time on a 200-meter track, but 300­meters is a race that they're not really familiar with. So it's a difficult distance to really know how to run, because it's a little too far to run a 200, yet you have to run it faster than what you'd run a 400 in." 
In the 60-meter dash, senior 
Travis Davey finished third in 
6.98 seconds, less than three hundredths of a second behind winner Victor Richards of Western Ontario. Gilbert took fifth, running 7.10 sec­onds. 
"It was a competitive race," said Millar. "Travis, I think, led for the first part of it. They competed very well." 
The only distance runner on the trip, Sean McManus, just missed qualifying for the Big East meet in the 3,000 meters. McManus' time of 8:36.65 was less than one second slower 

CAST CALL FOR MEN'S SINGING AND DANCING ROLES 
MONDAY, FEB. 12 
7:30 p.m. 

O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
FOR AUDITION: Bring one prepared musical piece. -If you do not have a prepared piece, please attend anyway! -We will teach you the music, scenes, and dance steps at the audition. Rehearsals begin March 5. Perfo_rmances: April 26-29, 2001 

than the qualifying standard. as well. through that this weekend." 
In the pole vault, sophomore "He's still struggling a little The team leaves Thursday Nathan Cahill took third place bit, he's not performing up to night for the meet in with a jump of 15 feet. Winsor his capability." Winsor said. Syracuse, which runs Friday 
expects more from that event "Hopefully he can break through Sunday. 

CROSSWORD  HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2001  
ACROSS  38 Frasca rival  67 Cloudless  CELEBRITIES  BORN  ON  facts before you take action. You  
1 Where "48 Hours" airs 4 Weapon since  39 Custom auto accessories 40 Test format  68 Lending figures 69 Go-ahead, maybe  nn:s DAY: Chynna Phillips, Arse­nio Hall, Judy Blume, Abraham Lincoln, Franco Zeffirelli, Arlen Specte:i; Christina Ricci  can excel if you are diplomatic. 0000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Unforeseen expenses will cause  
1952  41 Screen  Happy Birthday: You have  worry. Talk to someone who can  
9 Muppet grouch 14 Overdramatic one 15 Brian of figure skating 16 Smorgasbord 17 Agreement at sea 18 Test tormat 20 Loggers' contest  42 Wyo. neighbor 43 Manually « Barely run, as an engine 45 Beat poetry accompaniment 47 "Ta-ta!" 49 Test format 56 Actor Davis 57 Of durable  DOWN 1 Talisman 2 Sluggish water 3 One of the senses 4 Masseur's unguent 5 "I'm freezing!" 6 Big Ten sch 7 1980's Attorney  what it takes to dazzle the world this year. Put your heart and soul into your desired accomplish­ments, and you will find yourself in a leadership position. You have plenty to offer if you stand tall and present your ideas in a confi­dent manner. Don't hesitate or second-guess yourself, and you will reach your goals. Your mun­bers: 6, 14, 20, 23, 34, 41 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Partnerships will be strained if  advise you of ways to improve your financial situation. You need attention today. Spend time with someone you love. 000 LIBRA {Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Dishannony will lead to anguish and minor illness. Don't Jet others force you ro do or say things that will be upsetting. You need to pam­peryourselffor a change. 000 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Pick your friends and acquain­tances carefully. You mustn't let  
22 Tie-up 23 Test format 28 Lily palliative 29 True inner self 31 Certain horse race 34 Like some vows or cows  wood 58 Test format 63 Regret royally 64 Like ghost sightings 65 "Adam Bede" author 66 Roman mouths  General 8 Maker of big bucks 9 Where the adventurous drive 10 Securely fasten 11 Baltimore's Ripken  one of you has been disagreeable. Try to be understancung and sort the situation out before things get out of hand. 000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't waste your time trying to get others to understand why you are doin~ things the way you are. Work diligently on your own and avoid being dragged into conversations tliat will lead to  anyone talk you into spending your money on somethlng you don't fully believe in. 000 SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will have a problem with colleagues. Try not to back your­self into a corner. You need to allow others to do their own thing. If you focus on your own goals, you will get ahead. 0000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19):  
12 Doofus ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Thruway: Abbr. 19 Cheer from the stands 21 Les _-Unis ":"t--:-r.=:-t-:-::~__, 24 Actress Parker 1-:'f'~:-t 25 It might prevent a boxer from getting into a fight 26 Put in a· bibliography, say 27 Cybermissives ~-~ 30 Qualified ..,..+,-,+=+::+-:+::+:-+.-:-+-,-,t-::-ti"::--1 31 Chicago daily, familiarly  Puzzle by Chuck Deoclef1e 33 Certain Bedouin 35 Secessionists, initially 36 Hacienda 37 Vocalist Gorme 41 Cousin of a cello 43 Fortify 46 "All in the Family" role 48 Cancels, as a moonshot 50 "This _ bust!" 51 3Com Park  52 Electronics 58 Dry, in Napa pioneer Nikola 59 Norse 53 Canton underworld queenneighbor 60 Seam content54 Prefix with surgeon 61 Funnyman 55 Massage 62 Want-ad letters Ans.vars to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  disagreements. 000 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You should be involved in activi­ties that include children. Your creative input will be welcomed at any group gathering. Go shop­pingfor that special outfit you've been wanting. 00000 CANCER Oune 21-July 22): Your temper will be pushed to the limit if you allow family members to take you for grant­ed. Disillusionment regarding your partnership will lead to moodiness. 00 LEO (Ji23-Aug. 22.h Keep your thou ts to yourself. You may have een given false lnfor­mation that could damage some-one's reputation. Find out the  You should look into seminars that will help you obtain a more positive outlook. Be prepared to adjust your attitude for a more upbeat approach to life. 00 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have to he careful not to go over your budget. 'l'ake the time to help a friend in need, but don't go overboard. You an find solutions to existing problems, but you must act U_POn them U you wish to tum things aroWld, 00000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You need some time alone with your lover. Take the lead and let your mateknow how much you care. It's time you were ~ seriOUB and making a comnutment 000  
......,____. 32 f,e:1e from  player  years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  Birthday Baby: You have spunk. Your extraordinary view of life will always lead you in interesting directions. You are curious, Inven­ 
tive and well-spoken You are always a little ahead of your time.  
(Need advice? Gieck out Eugenia's Web sites at utroadvice.com,  

Monday, February 12, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 
eugenialasLcom, astromate.com.) 
C 2001 Uruversol Pre,, Syndicate

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
----~--~~-----------------------------------------------------------~----­
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
THE CHILDREN TELL ME TH[Y WANT To 


TOM KEELEY 
DON'T YOO REAUZE WHAT iHIS MEANS? FlkES WJ:U. 
. GO VNl>ETECl'EDI THIEVES 
CAN BREAK IN AT ANY 
MOMENT!--­

I THINlc:  SHooT. THIS THROWS A  THEY ALSo  
TI-IAT'S  WRENCH INTO MY SECRET  ~LL ME  
So  PLAN To TAICE YOU TO A I  1T WAS  
SWEET. FOUR-STAR RESTAURANTJ ~ANON:ARE I  YoUR •DEA. I  
t_-, ~ Ei<PENSE••.8.1 I  

LOCIC:bOWNI I.OCKl>OWNI 
AU. UN• 
ACCOVNTcO 
FO~ WILL BE SHOT 
ON SIGH'fl 
BJLLAMEND 
THIS IS WHY! ONLY PAIi> HALF UP F1loNT, ICIDS! 
' 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

Side effects ofa South Bend winter: translucent skin, . weight gain, and excess body hair. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _____________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

Big East tuneup 
The Notre Dame track teams had an impressive showing at the Windsor Team Challenge this weekend. The meet was the final tuneup before next week's 
Big East Championship. 
PORTS 
pages 16 & 18 

O
THE 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Belles snap losing streak with 75-61 win 
By NOAH AMST ADTER 
Assi,tanl Sports Editor 
In the minutes before tip-off 
Saturday at the Angela 
Athletic Facility, John

-
Fogerty's song "Center Field" blasted over the loudspeaker. Apparently Saint Mary's bas­ketball coach Suzanne Smith took note of the song's lyrics, "Put me in coach, I'm ready to play," as 11 players scored to lead the Belles to a 75-61 vic­tory over Olivet College. 
Anne Blair led the way with 12 second-half points as the Belles erased a 33-30 halftime deficit. Blair led the team with 14 points and five rebounds in onlv 17 minutes. She was a perfect five-for-five from the field and four-of-four from the free-throw line. 
Blair credited her team fol­lowing the victory -Saint Mary's first following 10 con­secutive losses since Jan. 3. 
"Since we've been kind of down lately, this feels great. It's like the definition of team. We all played with each other," Blair said. "Everybody contributed. It just feels great." 
Saint Mary's made seven of 11 three-point attempts for the game -led by Jaime Dineen's three treys. 

"She told me yesterday that she loves when teams play zone," Belles' coach Suzanne Smith said of Dineen. "We knew going into today that that's something we'd proba­bly see. She prepared herself pretty well for it." 
Freshman point guard Katie Miller also had a strong game for the Belles. After Blair went out with her fourth foul with less than 10 minutes remain­ing in the game, Miller led the offense with a key three-point­er and five assists. 
"She's just so poised out on the court," Smith said. "She wants the ball and she wants to run the show. That's great to see, especially as a fresh­man." 
Kristen Matha, Saint Mary's leading rebounder and the head of their team, came off the bench to play 11 minutes in the first half. After con­tributing two points, three rebounds, and three blocked shots, Matha left the game when she slammed her head on the court diving for a loose ball. 
The crash aggravated a con­cussion Matha suffered a week ago. Matha is expected to miss the team's next two games. 
In Matha's absence, junior 
see WOMEN/page13 
HOCKEY 

Irish sweep Falcons in weekend series 
ByJEFF BALTRUZAK 
Sporrs Writer 
The win came in the least like­ly way. 
Defenseman Evan Nielsen had yet to score in any of Notre Dame's previous 33 games this season, yet he found himself on a hreakawav with the score tied and less than a minute left in the game Saturday night in the Joyce Center. Bowling Green goalie Tyler Masters felt Nielsen nudge the puck just inside the left post, heard the siren wail, and saw Nielsen's stick thrust into the air in celebration. 
The sophomore Nielsen's improbable shorthanded goal put Notre Dame up on Bowling Green 4-3, and after an empty­netter, the final read 5-3, placing the Irish in a three-way tie with Lake Superior State and Bowling Green in the 10th and last play­off position in the CCHA. 

"It couldn't have come at a better time," said Nielsen. "We needed people to step up and make a big play, and I was just ·glad I was able to make the play 
we needed then." 
Entering the weekend, Notre Dame needed a sweep of the Falcons to even have a chance of making the postseason. With Friday's 3-2 win, the Irish bet­tered their league record to 5­14-4. 
Saturday's first period was a 
see HOCKEY/page 17 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish win seventh straight 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer Senior point guard Martin lngelsby dribbles upcourt In a game earlier this season. lngelsby scored 17 points to lead the Irish to victory over the Mountaineers. 
By KATHLEEN O'BRlEN 
Associate Spom Editor 
Forward Ryan Humphrey hobbled through the final sec­onds on a sprained ankle Sunday, managing to hold onto a rebound at the buzzer as his one-legged play c~rried Notre Dame to victory and the Irish carried the injured Humphrey off the court. 
Humphrey blocked a 3­point attempt by West Virginia's Tobias Seldon in the final 20 seconds, sprain­ing his ankle on the way down. The 6-foot-8 junior hopped his way through the Mountaineers' last possession on one foot. 
"When it happened, I felt like I got shot," Humphrey said. "I knew I had to get up because it would have been four on five if I had just laid on the ground. I think I would have felt worse if I had left my teammates to try to win the game without me." 
After West Virginia rebounded a missed 3-pointer by Josh Yeager, Mountaineer guard Tim Lyles threw up another 3-point attempt. Humphrey grabbed the board, and the Irish survived 69-66 for their seventh straight league victory, four more than the school record prior to this season. 
Irish reserves carried Humphrey, who will have his ankle examined this morning, to the locker room. 
"It's very sore," Humphrey said. "We have to play it by ear. If it's. all right, I'll play Wednesday night." 
Notre Dame (16-5, 8-2 Big East) came from behind to win despite a wild West Virginia (13-8, 4-6) crowd and foul trouble by Notre Dame post players Harold Swanagan (who fouled out), Troy Murphy and Humphrey. With the victory, the Irish remained a full game in front ofSyracuse in the race for the Big East West Division title. 
With the Mountaineers keeping the ball away from All-American Murphy. Irish guards Martin Ingelsby and 
Matt Carroll picked up the slack. 
"Our first option is always to go inside," Carroll said. "Teams aren't going to let us do that sometimes. Troy, Ryan and Harold are very unselfish, and they kicked it back out." 
Ingelsby, a senior point guard, drove the team to suc­cess with a team-high 17 points, including 5-for-7 shooting from behind the arc. He stole the show and the win from West Virginia with three steals, including one in the final minute of play. 
"They really did a good job double-teaming Troy in the post," Ingelsby said. "My man kind of sagged in, and I was able to get some open shots." 
For his part, Carroll put up 15 points on 6-for-12 shoot­ing. I-le also put the defensive clamp down on hot-handed Brooks Herry, who scored a career high 21 points, 18 of which came in the first half. 
After the Irish took an early 
see MEN/page 17 
Swimming

at Syracuse at Rutgers ...--at Big East Championships
SPORTS 

Wednesday, 7 p.m. Wednesday, 9 p.m . 
Thursday -Saturday
ATA 

at Adrian at Michigan State at Michigan Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Thursday, 4 p.m. Friday, 7:35 p.m. 
GLANCE we t'f) ~ 


