
Playstation 2
WINDY 

Wednesday 

Getting bored with your games already? Scene reviews Kinetica, Metal 
DECEMBERS,

Gear Solid 2 and Grand Theft Auto 3. Find out which are worth trying out. 
HIGH 64° 

Scene . page 10-11
LOW 47° 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 51 


Victim lectures on date rape 
. Nationally-renowned speaker shares story 
By KATE RAND 
Nc-ws Writer 
Katie Koestner was just like every other student in the room during her freshman orientation at the College of William and Mary. She had spent the last few days meeting new people and finding her way around campus, and was partially enjoy­ing the movie "Monty Python and the Quest for the Holy Grail" when she spotted a guy who she now describes as "straight out of GQ magazine." The two became friends and saw each other for the next few weeks to study chemistry. 
"We were not dating, not hooking up. We were hanging out. It's a very technical term," said Koestner, \\ho gave a lecture entitled "No-Yes" at Saint Mary's Tuesday about her experience as a sexual assault victim. 
The pair eventually decided to go on a real date to a French restaurant. but while the evening began like a dream, it ended like a nightmare. According to Koestner, her fancy evening out with "Prince Charming" ended when he raped her in her own bedroom. 
The first thing Koestner realized was that her 'friend' was 60 or 70 pounds heavier than she was, and that she could not move her legs out from under him even if she tried. He began kiss­ing her and with one hand pinned her arms above her head. She asked what he was doing, and he responded "nothing," and told her that"everything would be fine if she would just relax and stop thinking so much. 
According to Koestner, she eventually got him to stop, and he slept for five hours while she sat ner­vously in the corner pressed against the wall. When he awoke, he took advantage of her scared, sleep-deprived state and raped her. Koestner did not flail her arms around, but rather kept them, tight fisted, crossed against her body. She pressed 
see RAPE/page 4 


HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
·oARTing becomes 
Web-based 
By KE\ilN SUHANIC 
News ~Iriter 
In an effort to make DARTing more convenient, the Office of the Registrar implemented web­based class registration for the first time this semester. 
Most students like the new sys­tem. Rather than dialing in to already congested phone lines or trudging over to the Main Building, senior Sean McCarthy was able to register as he ate lunch in his apartment. 
"I don't know why we didn't have this before," he said. 
University Registrar Harold Pace shared in students' enthusi­asm. 
"We have been really happy with Web registration, and we hope th~ students have too," he said. 
He added that the best compli­ment his office could get was that "[students] just started using it." 
Using the system without time­consuming training was a key element to implementing Web registration, and the Registrar's office feels they have accom­plished this goal. 
McCarthy agreed with the Registrar's Office. "DARTing was pretty much the same as past years; but I didn't 
see DART/page4 




Welch: Values build a winning team 
. Former GE CEO says family, growth and winning form successful business philosophy 
By NORREN GILLESPIE 
News Wricer 
Jack Welch knows the game. 
During his tenure at General Electric as chairman and CEO, Welch set three priorities. for himself and the corporation in the game of business: create a family atmosphere, make growth a priority, and always, always win. 
His strategy was so successful that it catapult­ed General Electric -and Welch -to become one of the most respected business leaders in corporate America during his term from 1981 to 2001. 
His philosophy was so well received among a standing-room-only crowd in Jordan Auditorium Tuesday night that Welch even received a job offer to work here in South Bend. 
"Do you have any head football coaching experience?" one MBA student asked Welch jokingly. 
Welch suggested Jon Gruden as a better alternative, but turned the joke into an opportu­nity to tell the Mendoza College of Business that running a business isn't that much different from spqrts -it's a game. The teams with the best players and the most drive win, and win­ning is the objective, according to Welch. 
"I think this whole game of business is no dn­ferent of a game than the game you play across .the street," Welch said. 
Welch emphasized player development in business leadership. This is accomplished only by having a clear set of values and treating each person individually, he said. 
"Every person should be treated fairly in an organization, but every person should be treat­ed differently in an organization." Welch said. 
Welch earned both praise and criticism dur­ing his term at General Electric. GE spent more than $20 billion on new acquisitions, including the purchase of the National Broadcasting Company, RCA and the Kidder Peabody & Co brokerage firm. While he earned some enemies 
see WELCH/page 4 

page 2 · The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, December 5, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 

It is in giving 

It's that time of the year again. Thanksgiving has come and gone. The Christmas lights are up. The shopping sprees have begun. Finals, papers and projects plague students as the winter holidays approach. In the midst of it all, we somehow have to make 
things work. 
One thing that has helped me get through times like this is tradition. Before you think I'm going to go on and on about Notre Dame tradi­tion, J'm not. Notre Dame's tradition is great. Although there are many wonderful 


activities at Notre Dame in  
the coming Christmas sea- Angela Campos  
son, they are not tradition  
for me.  
Christmas time is when  Lab Tech  
my brothers. my sister and  
I get togetlrnr and practice  
our music for the prelude to  

the children's Mass. We sing Christmas carols and watch tho Nativity pageant performance. 
For me, Christmas tradition is making cook­ies with my brothers, sister and my parents. We mix lhem from scratch and bake them until the house smells like a confectionary. Christmas means going out and picking a tree together, putting up lights around the house and putting up all the pieces of artwork that we've made dating back to preschool. We roll piecrusts for pumpkin, apple and cream pies. We sit together around the table spreading tamales. 
Part of that tradition includes giving. My fam­ily makes tamales at Christmas. My mother and father have practiced this since before they were married. We've always left a glass of milk, a plate of cookies and a plate of tamales for Santa. And while we make some tamales for us to eat ourselves, we make most of them to give to friends of the family as Christmas gifts. 
So this year. I wanted to bring some of my family tradition to Notre Dame, because it just didn't seem like the holidays until I got home and wanted to change that. So I made tamales for some of my friends. Not only has that helped me to get more into the spirit of the upcoming holidays, it also provided me with an outlet for all of the hustle and bustle of finals. 
We are all busy at this time of the year. Time is of the essence. Find something to make it easier, to help you through it. Make the most of your time. Enjoy the rare, warm December days in South Bend. 
Then give something to someone. Give a coat to St. Vincent de Paul, canned food to the Center for the Homeless or socks to the /\ED sock drive. Give gifts to your friends. Not all gifts come with a price tag. 
I don't know what your family traditions are. I don't know bow you celebrate the holidays. But however you do, in whatever way, share that spirit with your classmates, your room­mates, your teachers and your friends. 
I wish you the best of luck on your final exams, safe travel home and back again, and a fun, relaxing holiday. 
Merry Christmas. 
Vou can contact Angela Campos al Campos.2@nd.edu. The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
In rhe Dec. 4 cdirion ofThe Observer, the headline on the spores sc01y on page 13 read "Texas, USC going to Holiday Bowl." Washingrnn, nor USC. will he playing in rhe Holiday Bowl. The Observer regrecs the error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professimul publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism ac all limes. We do, however, recognize char we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Ob,erver (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday chrough Friday cx.~epc during exam and vacuion periods. The Observer is a member of the A"sociat~d PR'.'s.'!i. All reproduction ri3hts are reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Concert: ND Chorale  . Performance: Not-So­ 
and ChambP-r Orchestra:  Royal Shakespeare  
Handel's "Messiah,"  Company, "Othello,"  
Hesbur:gh Center  Hesburgh Center  
Auditorium, 8 p.m. $5  Auditorium, 7;30 p.m. $5  

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Friday 
. Lecture: Nancy Cartwright, (voice of Bart Simpson), Jordan Auditorium, 7 p.m. $5 
Saturday 
. Recital: Glee Club Christmas Concert, Stepan Center, 6 and 8:30 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Brown grad investigated for having Anthrax 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
Tomas Fiwal ·99 did nothing out of the ordinary when he placed two vials of anthrax he found in a UnivPrsity of Connecticut laboratory in his personal freezer, said Kirklyn Kerr. 
Kerr, tlrn University of Connecticut Dean of the School ofAgriculture and Natural Hesources, said. "Graduate students, and faculty for that matter, put samples away in case they need them for future grants and that sort of thing." 
But when federal and state investi­gators closed in on the Wilbur 0. Atwater building on campus to test for anthrax exposure and question Fora!, university officials were more than willing to accommodate them by canceling classes and halting 
i
Thursday
I 
Friday I Saturd*y Sunday Mond~y
{J.,,..S'"' -·.,..-., I-··"•··:,~/; 
\ 


Q,~,~q~Q-r) ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow fee Sunny Pt. C/ouay Via AssOCJated Pf8SS GraphicsN&I 

research in the pathobiology build­ing. 
Those who knew Foral as an undergraduate at Brown were sur­prised to hear he was under govern­ment scrutiny. 
'Tm stunn~id," said Tad Heuer '99, who roomed with Fora! for three years at Brown and is now studying in England as a Marshall Scholar. "I bolievc that a lot of this is just the unfortunate coincidence of' Tomas having kept a. vial of something that happens to be the cause of a very large public scare at the moment." 
Heuer d(iscribod Foral as a "very studious person," methodical and conscientious in whatever he did. He said he saw Foral's storing the vials in line with his interest in animal dis­eases, including West Nile virus and Eastern equine encephalitis, samples of which Fora! also kept in his freez­er. 
"When he saw anthrax !about to be destroyed l he was thinking we nend more sci,rntists who know about anthrax, not fewer of tlrnm," Ilcuer said. 




MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY 
Mid East attacks polarize campus 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Palestinian suicide bombings in Israel over the weekend followed by retaliatory Israeli missile strikes on Gaza City Monday have once again polarized seg­ments of the University of Michigan community over the latest bedlam in the 53-year conflict between lsrael and the Palestinians. "Every time one of these things happens, it's supposed to remind us we're all on opposite sides. Instead, it distracts from how many Israelis and Palestinians love one another and are friends with one another," said Rackham student Greg Epstein, president of Humanistic Iluvarab, a student organization dedicated to the values ol' Jewish culture. Americans, who now have more of' an understanding about what it's like to experience such horrific devas­tation at home. are witnessing the biggest flare-up or violence in the Middle East since before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Some students said this could prompt more of a bias against Palestinians. 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

Atx.:L1We.ather8 forecast for ,by1ime conditions and high temperatures 
u 
Cloudy 

HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Police launch investigation late 
Memphis, Tenn., 
Police waited four days al't.1\r Ilarvard University pro­fessor Don C. Wiley's disappearance to launch a full investigation into explanations other than suicide, pos­sibly losing crucial evidence. Both Wiley's sister-in-law and a Memphis police officer familiar with the investi­gation said the preliminary police inquiry -handled by the police department's Missing Persons bureau ­did not include the forensic tests and area canvassing conducted by llomicide bureau detectives when they took over the case four days later. Wiley, Harvard's Loob professor of biophysics and biochemistry, was last seen al'ter a banquet at the Peabody lintel in downtown Memphis on midnight Nov. 15. Ilis rental car was found abandoned on a bridge over the Mississippi River four hours lat,~r. Susan Wiley. Wiley's sister-in-law, said Missing Persons inVfistigators told her the day aftor the disappearance that they were only actively investigating suicide at that point. 


NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Wednesday, Dec. 5. 
.....,......... 
0 2001 AtcuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM $ TATIONARY 



Pressure 
®© ...... 
High Low Via Assoc111fed Prs!ts  Showers  Rain  T•Atorms  Fltmles  Snow  Ice  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  71 68 62 64 76  53 49 50 42 63  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  57 70 56 65 67  37 51 40 51 52  

Sunny Pt, Cloudy Cloudy 
Portland Sacramento St. Louis Tampa Washington  46 56 69 83 DC 67  43 43 47 61 47  
\,__  


Wednesday, December 5, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 3 


GSU lobbies for new handbook 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
The Graduate Student Union plans to work with representatives from the MBA program and law school to draft a graduate student handbook, replacing the current graduate and undergracluate du Lac rulebook. 
Members of GSU. law and MBA programs met with Bill Kirk. director of Residence !Jfe. Jeff Shoup, director of Residence Life and Housing and James Powell, dean of the Graduate School to discuss the need for a handbook of rules applicable only to gradu­ate students. 
"We don't want to be treated as kids," Kishori Deshpande, GSU vice-president, said. "We're all adults and we know how to behave in situations." 
The idea to create a separate graduate student handbook arose from GSU concerns over the tailgating policy. first brought up by Tracy Kijewski-Correa. Notre Dame Security/Police enforced du Lac's tailgating rule and some graduate, MBA and law stu­dents were cited although they were oflegal


-----------------------------------------------7 drinking age. 
The committee's purpose is to evaluate what rules should refer to graduate students and place them in a separate handbook to avoid future confusion. 
"There are many instances where du Lac doesn't apply to grad students," said Gabriela Burgos, GSU president. 
GSU hopes to assist in forming the committee as sooh as possi­ble. 
In other GSU news: 
. 
The GSU Information Technology Committee has reached an agreement with OIT over paper allowances at University computer clusters. OIT initially allotted each gradu­ate student 1000 sheets per year -identical to the undergraduate amount. OIT has now agreed to extend that allowance to a maxi­m um of 3000 sheets for the remainder of the school year. 

. 
Suzann Gallagher will not return to her position as GSU elections, credentials and proce­dures secretary. Gallagher has decided to take a leave of absence, citing personal and family reasons. 


"I want to thank everyone for the help this semester," she said during the Tuesday night meet­ing. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

At GE, your career can take you anywhere. The diversity of 
ourbusinesses means new opportunities are constantly unfolding. And our fast~paced, informal environment is designed to help you explore them. You can move from industry to ;ndustry, 
discipline to discipline and never leave GE 
Because we have small company attitudes with large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. Were a high-spirited company where people are free to dream and encouraged to take risks. 
Find out for yourself why GE has been honored as America's Most Admired Company, by Fortune Magazine, fouryears in a row. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 

FACULTY SENATE 
Group recommends more power 
By JASON McFARLEY News Editor 
Should a measure by the Faculty Senate win support of University offi­cials. faculty who want to serve on Notre Dame's most powerful academic body may have to go through the senate first. 
The senate on Tuesday took an ambi­tious step to give it'lelf that authority, lay­ing out a plan to align the group more closely with the Academic Council, the chief governing body of the Urtiversity's educational affairs. 
At a meeting that ran past two hours, senators passed along to a joint commit­tee of the senate and Academic Council their recommendation to consider two actions that would shift power between the groups: 
. 
The senate would elect the 20 elect­ed facuttv members of the Academic Council from among sitting senat9rs. 

. 
The senate's five executive officers would be Academic Council members, increasing by four the current number of faculty members of the council. The move would increase faculty composition of the council to 54 percent, with admin­istrators holding the remainder of seats. 


"We saw it as a significant detail in increasing the power and importance of faculty in the governance of the Universitv," said Michael Zuckert, vice chair ofthe senate. 
The proposals were part of the sen• ate's most aggressive strategy to date to restructurn itself. The effort to gain more formal power has concerned the group since senators considered disbanding in May, citing disinterest among faculty and lack of respect from administrators as rea'ions for dissolving the group. 
The senate lacked authority to vote itself out of existence eight months ago. Changes to the senate require approval of the Academic Council, University President Father Edward Malloy and the Hoard ofTrustees. 
01anges senators considered Tuesday would need approval of the very body that the senate would take power from -the Academic Council. 
"This will have to be approved," said senate chair Jacqueline Brogan, "but that's been our agenda this fall ... to take it to the Academic Council to recommend that changes be made." 
Before the full council votes on the proposals, however, tl1e joint committee of five senators and four council mem­bers will examine the changes' potential . for approval. The committee essentially acts as a mediary between the two groups and serves as a gauge for the senate to measure how much support its efforts will find in the full council. 
"I think it's a sensible way to proceed," said Valerie Sayers, an English profes­sor. "We're operating with two bodies, one of which has no power and one of which has all the power." 
In other senate news: 
. 
Stuart Greene, of the University Writing Program, agreed to be the facul­ty representative to the Student Senate. 

. 
Members approved the nomination of Lionel Jensen, chair of the East Asian Languages and Literatures Department, to be chair of the senate's Administration Committee. 

. 
Senate officers agreed last week to begin meeting with deans· of the University's colleges to discuss changes to the group, Brogan said. The officers expected to meet today with College of Arts & Letters Dean Mark Roche and College of Engineering Dean Frank Incropera. Meetings with other deans will take place in January, Brogan said. 


Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 
Come visit GE at the Winter Career & Internship Fair on Jan. 31st. 
leam why Jennifer (ND 2000) and so many other ND alumni have joined GE 

We bring good things to life. 
Aircraft Engines Appliances Aviation Services Capital Servi~es Card Services C_ommercial Equipment Financing Commercial Finance Re.search & Dev~lopment Employers Reinsuranc'! Corporation Financial Assurance Equity Global Consumer Finance_ Global E~chan!J€ Se!Vlces Industrial System~ Lighting Medical Systems Mortgage Insurance NBC Plastics Power Systems Real Estate Specialty Materials Structured Finance Group Supply Transportatwn Systems 

page4 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, December 5, 2001 


Rape 
continued from page 1 
her legs together and bit a chunk of skin out of her cheek, wWch she later used as evidence in her trial. vVhen it was all over her assailant walked out of the room and said "Thank you." 
After the rape, Koestner told her R.A., who took her to health services 32 hours after it occurred. The nurse there did nothing but tell her to gel. some sleep, even though evidence can be collected up to 72 hours after­wards. She then went to the dean of students who told her to "think about it." 
Finally campus police helped Koestner, leading to an eventual trial. Her assailant was found guilty after admit­ting that she had said no a dozen times. 
"Some people don't understand tT1e meaning of no, even when you've said it a dozen times," Koestner said. "I learned that the hard way." 
Koestner has managed to turn the worst night of her life into a positive experience. Speaking at colleges, high schools, and military bases across the country in the years since the tragedy has helped strengthen Koestner as an individual and has also strengthened tile huge audi­ences who attend each lecture. 
After the attack, Koestner earned national recognition as the first victim to publicly speak about rape. She appeared on the June 3, 1991 cover of TIME Magazine and has appeared on Larry King Live, Oprah, NBC Nightly News, MlV and Good Morning America. In 1993, she worked with HBO to make the docu-drama "No Visible Bruises: The Katie Koestner Story." She has pre­sented her program over 1,000 times .to more than 700 institutions nation wide. 
Koestner acknowledged that most women in the audi­once had probably been informed aboul. date rape statistics at some point, hut that they most likely did not know all the facts, and probably had a two dimensional idea of the sit­uation. 
While Koestner said that she "hates statistics," she shared a few with the group. According to Koestner, 84 percent of the time rape occurs, the victim knows the assailant. 
"Nobody told me that when I was 18," Koestner said. "Date rape didn't exist then, not until my photo was on the cover of Time." 
Koestner reported more statistics which revealed that 98 percent of the time drugs or alcohol are involved in sexual assaults. One out of four women and one out of eight men are raped or sexually assaulted in their lifetime. Approximately every 20 minutes someone in the United States is raped. 
"All I want is one day without rape," said Koestner. 
Three main points Koestner stressed during the lecture were that rape is defined as sexual intercourse without effective consent, silence does not constitute effective con­sent. and a person incapacitated by alcohol cannot pro­vide effective consent to have sex. 
"Five years ago, the definition of rape was physical force," Koestner said. "In 2001 rape is sex without effec­tive consent." 
Koestner said that it is very hard to publicly share her story. 
"I don't regret it, ever. I could have been a chemical engineer, but I don't think I would have such a positive effect on people every day if that's what I was doing," Koestner said. "It's hard though; it's emotionally drain­ing." 
When asked how she .draws strength from public speaking, Koestner told the audience that she is a very determined person, who is very single minded about achieving her goals. 
"When you hit rock bottom, there is nowhere to go but up," she said. 
Contact Kate Rand at Rand8903@saintmarys.edu. 




DART 
continued from page 1 
even have to leave my apartment," McCarthy said. 
That is part of the flexibility of the new system; students can register from computer clusters, their dorm rooms or 
even from their homes over winter break. 
However, the new system has had a few quirks when students use a brows­er other than Netscape 4.75. 
"One small issue was currently being resolved," said Pamela Johnson, Senior Assistant Registrar. "But it only affect­ed a few people." 
She also advised students to use 
Netscape version 4.75 to avoid any potential problems. 
"Internet Explorer with a security setting on high does not allow cookies," which leads to problems Johnson said. 
The Registrar's office has had few problems with students not under­standing the system. However, accord­ing to Pace, surprisingly there were no freshmen in the Registrar's office dur­ing their first day of DARTing. 
Overall, the new system has been get­ting almost exclusively positive reviews. 
"It seems like DARTing this year was the best it has been so far. It was sim­ple, easy and quick," McCarthy said. 
Contact Kevin Suhanic at ksuhanic@nd.edu 
........_......_... . _..,. ___.. 
·-.:r-•.. 

. Welch 
continued from page l 
for what were perceived as tough and ruthless business tac­ti cs, GE's market value increased from $16 billion to more than $280 billion under his leadership. He consolidated 150 business units into 12 basic businesses in what he called a "boundary-less" organization to create a corporation that had "a big company body and a small company soul." 
ft was the shared set of values and a family atmosphere that played the biggest role in the game of success, Welch said. 
While Welch was bringing GE to the forefront of corporate cul­ture, he was also careful to make sure the corporation was a player in the community. Welch was seeing the big pic­ture when he instituted l.nner­city education programs and other community efforts nation­wide. 
"Do you think those dot-corns that didn't win were teaching in the inner-cities? Losers can't contribute to society ... they're too focused on their ovrn jobs," Welch said. 
An effective business leader makes it clear that company values are in place from the top­down. and institul.es programs that adhere to those values, he said. If there are members of the team that don't believe in those values, they have to be let go, he said. 
"One thing, you have to pray as you go out every night that [the values are] there," Welch said. "You worry most about somebody doing something stu­pid. We police it ... and when we find it, we don't let them go qui• etly. We don't say they left GE for personal reasons -we say they didn't agree with the val­ues of the company." 
While values allow an organi­zation to win the game, it's also important to celebrate the little victories along the way to suc­cess. Allowing a team to cele­brate its achievements moti­vates and builds a better team, according to Welch. 
"Great teams are about work­ing together, liking each other, wanting to win, and partying like hell when it's over," Welch said. "It's so critical to an insti­tution -it brings it alive, gives it character. People feel guilty about stopping to celebrate a lit­tle victory ... but it lets people know they've won." 
A Catholic himself, Welch also said that it is possible to com­bine Catholic ethics in business culture. It's business that is at the heart of everything -and there are good people running it. 
"I have found more bad peo­ple in federal and state govern­ment than I have ever seen in business," he said. "Business is played by some of the best peo­ple in the world." 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gil10843@saintmarys.edu. 


PataQonia
exclDSively 
at-.~ 
f.minute~ 
/!.om 0UTP05T Campus s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259-2000 for inore details 
<Y~· . 


_....;.,:,:,,., 


Two Main Sessions: 
May 22 to ju.Ly 3 :and July 8 to August I6 
GW Summer offers a learning experience ofuncommon quality, including 500 courses . from 70 different areas ofstudy. 
CW also offers a unique selection ofspecial institutes, summer abroad programs, and distance learning courses. 
.· 
::, :r ' .u....._._./t. .. r:
,,3,}-:~*~~" ;; '.,,>~,,·), 1;?{2,


Registration begins April 4 






t• The

www.summer.gwu.edu 
email: sumprogs@gwu.edu • phone: (202) 994-6360 
C\'<' is an equal opportunicy instiwrion. 


W~RL
......... ATION 
Wednesday, December 5, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Israel strikes Palestinian targets: 
In the most wide-ranging military attack on Palestinian areas in 14 months of conflict, Israeli warplanes and helicopters today bombarded security offices in eight areas of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, killing at least two Palestinians and injuring scores. 
Antimissile weapon test successful: 
A prototype antimissile weapon demolished a mock warhead last night high above the Pacific Ocean in tbe second consecutive success for the Pentagon's costly missile defense program, military officials said. The administration has said it wants a rudimentary missile defense against long­range missiles available by 2004 to 2006. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Haitian boat beaches near Florida: An overloaded sailboat carrying 185 Haitians ran aground in shallow water 10 miles off the Florida coast Monday after being at sea for 10 days. The Haitians were taken to a Coast Guard station in Miami, then were to be questioned by the Immigration and Naturalization Service at a nearby detention center to see if any will be allowed to enter the United States, said INS spokeswoman Patricia Mancha. 
Judge denies plea reversal: In angry and at times sarcastic terms, a California judge today rejected Sara Jane Olson's efforts to withdraw her guilty plea to charges that she _participated in a plot to bomb two police cars here 26 years ago as a member of a self-styled revolutionary group, the Symbionese Liberation Army. Ms. Olson, who had fought this day of reck­oning for decades, first as a fugitive for 24 years, then through numerous delays in her trial, is to be sentenced on Jan. 18. 

INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Casino tax increase opposed: City and county leaders are opposing Gov. Frank O'Bannon's proposal for a $2 increase in riverboat casino admission fees to help solve the state's financial problems. Evansville City Council members agreed Monday to add their names to a letter by Mayor Russ Lloyd Jr., a Republican, that will be sent to the Democratic governor about his proposed $2 increase. That tax is one of several proposals from O'Bannon to shore up a projected $1.3 billion budget deficit. The increase from $3 to $5 per casino patron requires legislative approval. 


Market Watch December 4 

Dow 
9,893.84 +129.88 



Jones 
Composite

' 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
ENRON CORP (ENE) +117.50 +0.47 0.87 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.32 +0.66 38.97 NASDAQ-100 INDX (QQQ) +4. 77 + 1. 86 19. 86 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +1. 78 +0. 24 13. 50 MCLEODUSA INC-A (MCLD) -21.15 -0.11 32.04 
AFGHANISTAN 
I 
I I I I I I I I 
'I I I I I I I 
f 
't I I I 
l 
I 
l 
I 
! I 
l 1 

AFPPH0TO 

Moving into a security position, an infantry company with the 15th Marine Expeditionary Unit, moves past their newly acquired forward-operating base on November 25, 2001 in Southern Afghanistan. 


Marines probe more territory 
last bastion of control.
Associated Press 
Those elite troops -the Kandahar ·· Marine Corps' closest Having established sig-equivalent to special oper­nificant firepower on the ations forces -have ground here, American joined light armored vehi­marines are now probing cles on closer-in patrols deeper toward the chaotic and Cobra helicopter gun­swaths of territory still ships and Huey reconnais­under control of the sance helicopters that Taliban, military spokes-depart just before dusk men here said today. each evening from the bur-
The 15th Marine geoning and increasingly Expeditionary Unit's Force multinational base here. Reconnaissance Platoon "We're more aggressive­
_has begun widening its ly patrolling," Capt. David patrols across an arc of T. Romley, a Marine Corps desolate territory that is spokesman, said. essentially no-man's-land, Having encountered no focusing particularly on an significant Taliban forces area between here and since attacking a convoy of Kandahar, the Taliban's military vehicles on Nov. 
G.E. ordered to clean Up Hudson 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Environmental Protection Agency reiterated today its order that the General Electric Company remove hundreds of tons of poiso­nous chemicals from the Hudson River in New York. 
"We are going forward with this important cleanup," Christie Whitman, the agency's administra­tor, said this afternoon. 
The announcement that the 
E.P.A. would not alter its original order of Aug. 1 was certain to please environmentalists, who had expressed fears in recent weeks that the Bush administration might be too friendly to G.E. and might adjust the order to make it easier for G.E. to meet. 
General Electric discharged many tons of polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCB's, from plants on the upper Hudson for more than 35 years, before the government banned the chemical in 1977. PCB's have been linked to cancer in animal tests, and a stretch of river nearly 200 miles long was placed on the federal Superfund 
26, these forays have steadily widened their search, expanding their operations significantly beyond simply securing the perimeter at this sprawling desert com­pound. 
Marine commanders here have declined to dis­cuss their future opera­tional plans, but Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld has said the force here was intended to put pressure on the remaining Taliban forces, blocking escape routes and interdicting •them if they move. 
Under the ground rules imposed on journalists 
cleanup list in 1984. 
For a quarter of a century. the river contamination has spawned lawsuits, disputes between G.E. and environmentalists and argu­ments over how best to proceed with a cleanup. 
G.E. has long resisted dredging of tainted river bottom, contend­ing that it would do more harm than good. The company says that it has spent some $200 million in research and restoration efforts over the last two decades, and that in any event the river shows signs of rejuvenating itself. 
accompanying the marines here, it is not permitted to disclose the exact size or location of the force. It continues to grow, howev­er, as C-130 and C-17 cargo aircraft maintained a nightly air bridge. The C­130's alone are averaging 10 flights in and out a night. 

Among the additional forces and equipment that arrived here early today l was a significant contin­gent of Australian troops, said Capt. Stewart T. Upton, another spokesman. 1 They joined liaison officers I from Australia, Britain and .
'I
Germany who have been I here for several days. l 
page 6 711e Observer . NEWS Wednesday, December 5, 2001 
BYU ministers face honor code ruling 
By ANNIE VANCE 
The Dailv Universe 
PROVO. Utah 

Hrigham Young Univt>rsity students John Hash. Charles Clawson and Corbiu Clawson and Utah Valley Statf' College student Neil Walton will appear in court today to appeal a citation they received for holding a dance. 
Under the citv Dance Hall Ordinance, public parties arc to uphold rnquiremcnts such as providing surveillance cameras, metal detectors and statt> certified security. 
Government. school and church dances are exempt from the law. 
flash and Clawson claimed they should be exempt from this law because of their online ordination as ministers in the Universal Life Church. 
!lash said they became min­isters not to 
associat.i 
"{University oj[lcials] are 

Hights and
themselves 
pretty serious about Privacy Acl,
with anotlwr 
which pm-religion. but this." 
vents suchto make a 
disclosures.
statement 
Charles Clawson But Charles
about the unconstitu­Brigham Young University Clawson said 
tionality of student they were 
the law. 
The city citation isn't their biggest problem right now. According to Hash, they have been put on probation with BYU and are unsure if they will be able to register for classes next semester. 
Charles Clawson said they already have met twice with the Honor Code office to dis­cuss their status as students. He said BYU is not taking the matter lightly. Charles Clawson is worried they won't be able to register next semester. 
"They are pretty serious about this." he said. 
Hash said he was going to graduate in December. but his diploma was suspended. 
BYU spokeswoman Carrie Jenkins said the recommen­dation was made to put the students on probation for vio­lation of the honor code. 
"It makes the Church look bad and we'd rather just drop it. " 
Charles Clawson Brigham Young University student 
"The students do have an opportuuily Lo appeal that recommendation," Jenkins sai<l. 
Charles Clawson said he has chosen not to appeal the rec­ommendation for probation. Hash said he appeakd the probation because he wants to be able to graduate in December. 
,Jenkins said the appeal process takes five school days from the time the recurnmeu­d at ion is made. Jenkins declined to specify the nature · of the violation. citing the 
Family 
Education 
told they 
were in viola­tion of the honor code because they broke the law and were disrespectful of other people. 
Charles Clawson said he didn't think they broke the law; it is still to be deter­mined. 
"It sounds like they are grasping at straws to me," Clawson said. 
Charles Clawson said they have sought "friendly advice" from a lawyer. lie said they wanted to know where they stood legally. 
"He explained things to us so we wouldn't go into it blind," Charles Clawson said. 
He said they plan to plead guilty in court because he doesn't want this to be bad publicity for the Church. 
"It makes the Church look bad and we'd rather just drop it," Charles Clawson said. 



enormous 
FLEECE 
Selection 
Sminutes ........ {,-om OUTPOST Campus ·1•Ni( 
Cold Weather Experts 
eau259-1000 for more details 
High-tech scooter unveiled 
By ZACHARY NORMAN HarvarJ Crim,on 
CAMBHIJ)(;E, Mass. 
Dr.an Kamnn at last unveiled his latest invention -a higl1­tcch scooter -on ''Good Morning America" Monday after months of media specula­tion about the invnntion that some have said "will cbangi. tlrn world." 
Code-named Ginger. the Segway lluman Transportnr is tlrn world ·s first self-balancing scooter and allows a person to travel about 12 miles per hour. The scooter can run up to 15 miles on a singln electric charge; to stner a Segway, a rider simply needs to shift their body weight and tlrn machine will sens(\ tlw change and respond almost instantaneous­ly. 
The ITl('dia frenzy surround­ing Ginger has b(Hlll lrnilding since last January when llarvard Business School Publishing I1113Sl' l revealed it paid a ~2:i0,000 advanc<' f'or a book about Ginger without nven knowing what tlrn inven­tion was. 
With Monday's oflicial unveil­ing or Kamen's invention. HBSP representatives said they are excited about Segway's future. 
"We think it is rnally intrigu­ing," IIBSP Corporate Communication Dirnctor Sarah McConville said. 
The book about the scooter. to be written by Steve Knmper, will focus on the process of innovation in general and Scgway's development specifi­cally, McConville said, and will be released next year. 
Ginger is just one in a long line of Kamen inventions, including Uw first portable dial­ysis machine and th(1 same typ(~ uf heart stint implanted in Vice President Hichard B. Cheney. The inventor also created a wh,~elchair that can climb stairs. 
Kamen only revealed the nature of Ginger to a few investors and other high-tech luminaries, such as Apple corounder StcvB Johs and Amazon.com CEO Jeff Bezos. 
stones. A rider also can turn around on an incline. 
Because or its versatility in traveling short distances. many companies already have ordered units for their employ­ees. The United States Postal Service plans on trying to use Segways for mail carriers, and Amazon.com will use Segways to allow worbirs to move around quickly in warehouses. Many largo corporations were 
Last spring J o b s des crib!) d "People have been getting Ginger as 
along fine with bikes. I 
having the 
don't know what impact
potential to be as big of a it might have." deal as tho personal 
Oliver Soong 
computer 


Harvard graduate
and said that "cities will be built around provided with narly viewing of tho inven­tion. so that they could place orders in advance. 
Currently only an indus­trial ·version of Segway will Im mass pro­du<:nd; a con­
it." 
Speculation about what Ginger would bn ran rampant on many Wr.b sites and discus­s ion boards. Many thought Gingr.r might bo a type of hov­ering scooter or run on a Sterling (rnginc, a highly efli­clent r.nginc that potentially could run on fu1d such as hydrogen. 
Because or gyroscopes and tilt sensors that monitor a rider's movements 100 times per minute. it is almost impos­sible to fall o/T the scooter. Segway is also designml so that when a ridnr stops o/T the scooter it immediately stops. 
Although Sogway is designed to be primarily used on pave­ment. the scooter also can trav­el through water and over sumer version, which will cost about $3,000, will follow in latn 2002. 
Many proponents of' Sogway sec it as potentially being useful in crowded urban areas, partic­ularly in East Asia. 
Despit1) predictions by somr that Ginger would rnvolut.ionizc personal transport. others an~ skeptical of such pronounce­ments. 
"This is not rww," said Josi~ 
A. Gomez-lbanoz. Bok profes­sor of urban planning and pub­lic policy at IJarvard University. 
Somo students also predicted the scooter would have a limit­ed impact on city lifo. 
"People have been getting along fine with bikes. l don't know what impuct it might have," Oliwr Soong '04 said. 


NYSP 2002 sum111er Service Program 
Do you want to work with young people this summer? 
Do you want to stay on campus and make $1,500 for six weeks of work? 
If you like kids, sports, and working outdoors, then the National Youth Sports Program is for you! 
n 


NYSP. 

The National Youth Sports Program, (NYSP), is a sports and enrichment summer program serving 10-16 year-old students from economically disadvantaged backgrounds on the campus ofthe University ofNotre Dame. Camp runs June 24-July 26, Monday­Friday, from 8:00-2:30, with the addition ofSaturday, July 6th to make up for the 4th of July holiday. We also hold a stafftraining week from Jwie l 7th-21st. Our camp features basketball, soccer, softball, swimming, golf, and other sports combined with drug and alcohol prevention, computer, and selfesteem/life skills programs. 
We need you. The NYSP is looking to hire 25+ undergraduate or graduate students from all backgrounds to be role-models and leaders for the summer as project aids. Those students selected as aids will act as camp counselors leading their terun of 12-15 campers throughout the five-week program. This summer service project pays $1,500 for the six­week experience and will result in a ND theology credit through the Center for Social Concerns. 
Ifyou are interested, pick up an application in the Center for Social Concerns. If you have any additional questions, call Pam or Ryan at 631-6614. 
Wednesday, December 5, 2001 
The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Injured serviceIDen discuss co01bat 
As•ociated P rcss 
FOHT CAMPBELL, Ky. 

Three servicemen injured in an explosion inside an ancient Afghan fortress said Tuesday they hope to return as soon as possible to the war on terror­ism. 
At a news conference, the men praised northern alliance fighters and said they trusted them to help after the explo• sion. 
"They're our friends, and they're going to take care of us," said Paul, a 30-year-old Army captain from suburban Chicago who is a member of the 5th Special Forces Group. 
Citing security concerns. military officials declined to give full names for the wound­ed servicemen. 
Five servicemen were injured during an uprising by Taliban prisoners at the fortress outside the city of Mazar-e-Sharif. Two did not 
attend the news con­fer c n c e because of t h e i r injuries. 
At first, northern alliance soldiers were curi­ous about Americans, s a i d Michael, a 27-year-old Air Force sergeant vicemen are based at Fort servicemen were wounded by Campbell, on the Kentucky­an errant lJ.S. missile. Tennessee state line, 50 miles "Everything went brown north of Nashville. and we started flying through 
Eventually. the northern the air," Capt. Paul said. alliance soldiers began greet-Capt. Kevin, of Oakland, 
ing  them  N.J.,  was  
with  what  hospitalized  
translated to "thank you" in English. "It's hard  "Everywhere we went, there were crowds of people. They would  with a frac­tured ·pelvis and was expected to  
to put into words the conditions that these  applaud. That was a really, really goodjeeling."  return home later this week; 1st Sgt. David,  
soldiers _arc  0  f  
facing," Capt. Paul said of the northern  Paul Sargeant 1st Class  Evansville, Ind., suf­f e r e d  

alliance. "The lack of equipment. The lack of cold weather clothing. And the fact 
· is they continue to Oght." 
The five men had spent days in the fortress before Taliban prisoners were placed there. said Sgt. 1st Class Paul. a 38­y ear -old f r o m 
from Oxford. Conn., who is never found the agents, but based at Hurlburt Field, Fla. soon felt a massive explosion. The other four injured ser-Military officials have said the 
eardrum 
damage. 
The men's injuries ranged from broken bones to rup­tured eardrums. All were expected to recover, with the possibility of some perma­nent hearing loss, Capt. Paul said. 
All received the Purple Heart. The CJA agent, Johnny "Mike" Spann, was killed by rioting prisoners, becoming the first known U.S. combat casualty in Afghanistan. 
Before the uprising, the men said they lived at times in caves, rarely bathed and sometimes went hungry. They said they believe in their cause. especially after witnessing the transforma­tion of Mazar-e-Sharif once the Taliban fled. 
"Everywhere we went, there were crowds of peo­ple," said Sgt. 1st Class Paul. "They would applaud. That was really, really a good feel­ing." 
WEST BANK 




Israeli fore es strike Arafat compound 
Associated Press 
RAMALLAH 
Bodyguards whisked Yasser Arafat into an underground bunker at the sight of Israeli attack helicopters approa­ching his 
C O ffi ­pound Tuesday. 
S e ­c o n d s l a t e r when the missiles struck ­

a few Arafat d oz e n yards from where he had been sitting -the Palestinian leader was safely hidden away with advisers and body­guards in a windowless underground office. "You should not forget that Arafat is a fighter," said Ahmed Abdel Rahman, secre• tary general of the Palestinian Cabinet, who stayed in the shelter with him. "He was very quiet. ... Although he was very sur­prised, he did not stop giving directions.... We took all the natural measures that we used to take when we were in Lebanon." Rahman said Arafat ordered employees of the compound to evacuate, keep­ing only his personal body­guards. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's government said it was not trying to harm Arafat personally, but wanted to send a stern warning to crack down on militants. "The purpose was to send a clear military message .... 'Friends. we've had enough, take the responsibility that you have and stop the terror­ism,"' said the Israeli army spokesman, Brig. Gen. Ron Kitrey. Sharon did not comment Tuesday, but in a 1V address Monday he blamed Arafat for 
attacks on Israelis 
Arafat is no less than "the main impediment to peace and stability in the Mid die East. Arafat has chosen the path of terror (to) try to make diplomatic gains through murder," he said. 
With troops sealing off the 
West Bank and Gaza, the 
Palestinian leader has been 
left a virtual prisoner in 
Ramallah. 
The tactic further compli­
cates Arafat's daunting task 
-confronting and control­
ling increasingly popular 
Islamic militants when he has 
little to offer his people in 
return. 
When he emerged from his shelter, Arafat angrily accused Israel of trying to sabotage his crackdown on Islamic militants, which Israel dismisses as a sham. 
The Israelis "don't want me to succeed and for this (Prime Minister Ariel Sharon) is esca­lating his military activities against our people, against our towns, against our cities, against our establishments," Arafat said. "He doesn't want a peace process to start." 
The Palestinian Authority has rounded up some 130 members of the militant Islamic Jihad and Hamas groups in response to week­end suicide bombings and shootings in Israel that killed 26 people. Jibril Rajoub, Palestinian security chief in the West Bank, said arrests would continue, although none have been made since the Israeli airstrikes began Monday. 
"How can we take mea­sures in order to control the situation when all our institu­tions are being targeted?" asked Palestinian Information Minister Yasser Abed Rabbo. "The security offices and even our jails have been threat­ened. How can we control the situation?" 
The attacks are the latest chapter of Israel's up-and­down relationship with Arafat, who was exiled from Palestinian territory in the late 1960s. 
When Israel invaded Lebanon in 1982, Sharon, then Israel's defense minister, repeatedly targeted Arafat, who was in Beirut with his PLO fighters. Arafat was once even in an Israeli sniper's crosshairs, according to reports, but the man hesitat­ed to shoot. 
"It's hard to put into words the conditions that these soldiers (in the northern alliance) are facing. The lack ofequipment. The lack ofcold weather clothing. And the fact is they continue to fight." 
Paul 

Captain 

Rockport, Texas. 
On Nov. 26, an 11­person team was sent into the fortress to look for two CIA agents, one of whom was later found dead, he said. 
The men 



6:00PM-8:30PM f INAL 4 STUDENT ROUND ROBIN 
The top four student teams compete in a round robin competition to determine who will represent the University of Notre Dame at the Regional Competition. 
8:30PM-9:30PM 

RECTOR MINI-TOURNAMENT 
Two teams ofResidence Hall Rectors and University Administrators will square off. 
9:30PM-10:00PM 


STUDENTS vs. RECTORS 
The winning Student Team will compete against the winning RectorTeam. 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office 


O
THE 
BSERVER 



VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, December 5, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nocre Dame. IN 46S56 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAG£1t  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR, Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Ferer Richardson 
. 

AoVF.RTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESICN MANACER: Alex Menze SY.STEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WF.li ADMINl.>"T.llAT0R: Adam T umer C0NTR0LLFR: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna. 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0 .............. 631-7471 Fu............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJF.F........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................63[-5323 
observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu YlEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint.!@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................ 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit ow-Web s.ite ac http://ob,ervn-.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for 
weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudent reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and races ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 


POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Leners to the Edi tor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Questions r,garditig Observer polities sfJOuld be direct­ed to Editor;,, ChiefMilt, Connolly. 

Raise your voice 
I live two lives; I wear two faces. to me. I began to recognize my own bro­wannabe couldn't even think about tak­
I have a friend in my first. Her face ken nature and my perpetual restless­ing me off the line. Green light; I'm lies. Steeped in joy but ravaged by life­ness spawned from the inability to fill gone and now have a pleasant gloating hardening wrinkles. it screams thf'. age that inexpressible void in my life. to add to the warmth of 1.he drive. of 65 while her lame body can only As she gradually went insane with me Before long I pull up to Amsterdam cJaim 49 years -during those evenings. began to walk in Coffee House and order myself a cafe 49 years of abuse. front of trucks and forced me to commit mocha with whip cream, and yes, I do
Nick Fonte 

Too often winced her to a mental institution. my soul will­like chocolate shavings on top, thank in pain, her face ingly walked with her, and her you very much. I settle into a nicely­complements a For A Mure severe limp, and in Just and addition to having 
Humane World 
one leg two inches shorter than the other, her left side has slowly crippled itself thanks to multiple strokes that began at age 5. 
I first met her at the illegal homeless shelter that I called home for a summer. While waiting in the coffee line I could not help but introduce myself to the beaming smile with which she greeted me at 6 a.m. 
With an eye for the beautiful and an insatiable desire to help in the soup kitchen in any way she could, you would never guess that she lost her brothers to drugs, that her daughter committed sui­cide after her father repeatedly molest­ed her, and that she wore a beatnik, recklessly-chopped hairstyle because she had just been raped on the streets and wanted to reduce the chances of it could have taken my sister's disparaging gap between my reality happening again by making herself look Jeep Grand Cherokee, but to be quite and my far,;ade, and those good souls ugly. honest. I find that her four-inch lift and who staff it have changed my life 
All these stories were told on slow, 34:inch chrome tires make the ride a through seminars and service projects. chilled evenings on a wooden bench in bit bumpy. I opt for the sleek and the Go beyond the mask and get involved. the backyard that she had the honor of speed. calling her bed. We would sit there. God! I love racing down the palm­"For a More Just and Humane World" huddled close together over coffee and tree-studded road with the warm wind is a bi-weekly column in The Observer. cigarettes, and her wrinkles would sucking at my face and the beautiful Nick Fonte is a senior Program of unwittingly unfold their solemn origins sun futilely attempting to penetrate my Liberal Studies major and is one of the in streams of consciousness. And as we polarized Oakley lenses. Student Liaisons for Social Concern sat there, evening after evening, feeling Ah. a red light and a nice little mus­Commissioners at the CSC. some sense of accomplishment and pur­tang poised and waiting. I pull up; The views expressed in this article pose by satiating the incessant need for glance over. represent those ofthe author and not caffeine and nicotine. she lent her face Ha! It's not even a GT; this little necessarily those of The Observer. 


Holy Cross College deserves recognition 
I am writing to commend The Observer and its staff on a job well done. In the Dec. 4 edition, Holy Cross College was finally given the recognition it deserves among the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community of which it is already a mem­ber. However, too often, it is forced to be a silent member. Perhaps because of its small size. it is not given adequate recognition in The Observer and the rest of the ND/SMC community. Yet. finally, it has been. Putting the story of HCC pos­sibly offering a 4-year degree in the future on your front page is big news for both Holy Cross and the rest of the communi­ty. Holy Cross College has given many past and current Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students their start, including myself. The Brothers of Holy Cross created a unique environment 35 years ago, and its well-respected reputation continues to this day. The small. close "family" a student experiences at Holy Cross provides them with the experiences they need to contin­ue on successfully at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or any other four-year institution. 
Though Holy Cross will remain at its core a two-year. transfer-intent institution. the addition of a four-year degree is exciting. I know the admissions team at Holy Cross College has worked long and hard to increase enrollment at Holy Cross College and has thus far been extremely successful. I wish them continued success in this new challenge and am confident they will meet their goals. 
And again, to The Observer staff, thank you for shining a long overdue light on a school that is an important asset to our community. I only hope that such coverage of Holy Cross College will be included in your "beats" in the future. 
Kristen Kurek 
junior Holy Cross Hall Dec. 4, 2001 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maribel Morey Amanda Greco Van Giles Graphics Justin Krivickas Jimmy Atkinson 
Sports Production Katie Hughes Jeff Baltruzak Viewpoint Lab Tech Sheila Flynn Nellie Williams 
POLL QUESTION 
Who do you want to be the new head football coach? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"My school motto was 'Monsanto incorpori glorius maxima copia · which in Latin means, 'When the going gets tough, the tough go 
shopping."' 
Robin Williams actor 


O
THE 

BSERVER 



VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, December 5, 2001 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

As Coach Davie and consequently the rest of the Notre Dame coaching staff is released from the University, let us please not forget to treat these men with the respect they deserve as not only people, but also as members of the Notre Dame family. 
For the past year and a half, I have been blessed with the opportunity to work with this outstanding group of men. They have through time become my surrogate fathers and big brothers, my mentors. and my inspiration. I have finally found a job that I love going to every day. This semester has been the hardest of my life as I have been confronted by many of the difficulties that life throws at us some­times. No matter how bad my day was, going to work always put me in a great mood. It was there that I felt the sense of the Notre Dame spirit the strongest. I don't know how I ever could have gotten through the past few months without them. The coaches always took time out to talk to me could always make me laugh. 
These are truly amazing men with incredible hearts. They love Notre Dame and everything for which it stands. They have put in long hours, often arriving well before 8 a.m. and sometimes not leaving until midnight, just tb try to develop the team to its full potential and give you the team that many of you claim you "deserve." They strive to balance their jobs and families, while never relinquishing their absolute passion and love for the game itself. 
Please keep in mind the incredible sacrifices the entire coaching staff has made and the enormous pressure that has been placed upon them before laying harsh criticisms upon them. These amazing men have been such an inspiration to me and all who have been blessed to have worked with them. 
To those men, thank you for everything you have taught me, good luck to you as you move on from Notre Dame, and may God bless you and your families. 
Meghann E. Finerghty sophomore Pangborn Hall 
Davie did not have Irish attitude 
While I believe that Bob Davie brought some positives to the Notre Dame football program, such as a high team GPA and graduation rate, we should applaud the message that Kevin White sent to the Notre Dame community by letting Davie go on Sunday. The problem was not Bob Davie's lack of knowledge for the game, or his effort. The problem was attitude, and I don't believe that Bob Davie has the type of attitude that has always propelled Notre Dame to success. 
First, Davie's pessimistic attitude brings down our players. I am sick of hearing how our team isn't explosive so we can't throw the ball, or that teams like Navy and Boston College are college football powerhouses. As Davie states before playing winless Navy. "This game, because of who we arc playing, is a game that every year is going to be a challenge." Is he talking about Navy, the team that we have beaten 38 years in a row? We arc never going to defeat college football powerhouses like Nebraska and Tennesse if we have the atti­tude that a team like Navy is superior to us. Bob Davie seems scared to play even the worst teams -similar to how our offense is scared to throw the ball or be aggressive. Maybe that's why playing a win­less Navy team becomes a showdown, instead of a joke. 
Second, Davie's attitude on the field doesn't instill confidence in his players. I can.recall the first game of the year when the hopes and dreams of a national championship were still high. Yes, Terrence Howard, the starter, fumbled on the first play from scrimmage, but is that a good reason to bench him for most of the game. How can play­ers play with freedom and enthusiasm when they are constantly wor­ried that one single mistake will get them benched? Players should feel like they are going on the field do something positive, not scared to play. 
Finally, and worst of all, Bob Davie has accepted defeat. After the loss to Stanford, Davie reverted back to the high GPAs and gradua­tion rate of Notre Dame football players, suggesting that this season wasn't a dism-al failure. Well, I have news for you. Anytime Notre Dame loses more than they win, it is a failure. At a press conference, Davie stated that we have to look at the big picture and at our foot­ball team's true character. He says that the team succeeded because they are good peopfe. He tells us that it is difficult to produce a national championship team with Notre Dame's high academic stan­dards. On Sunday, Kevin White said that Bob Davie is wrong. The ability to achieve athletic success while maintaining academic excel­lence is the essence of Notre Dame. It's what makes us special. It's why we came to this University and it's why we are Notre Dame. On Sunday, Kevin White refused to let Bob Davie take that mentality away from us. 
Michael Sweiker 
junior 
Alumni Hall 
Dec. 4, 2001 

mentalities, wonderful families and genuine Dec. 4, 2001 
Students fight battle between life, drudgery 
It starts with the annoying pulse of my alarm clock. It's there on the mornings that ~order to escape the anxiety of freedom. After reading this, I simply stopped and I step into the frigid air when, just minutes before, I was wrapped in the warmth of closed my book. I stopped reading and instead of thinking about how this informa­my bed. I feel it as I trudge off heavily to an 8:30 a.rn. class, with that almost embar­tion-was going to be tested, I simply applied the text to my current situation. rassed feeling of being up so early, to learn. I see it in my fellow class-goers from And it finally hit me. This test is about 1/10 of my psychology grade, which is 1/5 
,
the groggy looks on their faces, which all but scream for more sleep {a rare com­of all my first semester grades, which is 1/8 of my total grades here at Notre Dame. modity here). It seems to possess everyone around me; the Even my total grades only possess a small fraction of meaning in the grand scheme I aura of the room is death. It's there every early morning of Stephen Dick of "me." I did the math and came up with a single certainty: grades do not matter. I classes and it's there every late night of studying; it is the Learning and studying is fine. What is not fine, however, is the drudgery of learning drudgery of campus academic life. and studying. 
On those surreal weekday mornings and those late late-night Guest Column Notre Dame is full of zealous students who will fight tooth and nail to receive the cram sessions, r inwardly marvel at the driving force that got better grade. Put the best. brightest and hardest-working in the same classes to me out of bed so early and tucked me into bed so late. After compete for the same prize and the overzealous will go to even greater lengths. some pondering, I was soon able to narrow the possible forces They will live, eat and breathe drudge, if only for the day before a test, in order to down to a single suspect. This adversary, while influential, is the silent and intangi­outweigh another classmate on a scale that is imbalanced. At times, we all do things ble type. This driving force, this source of drudgery, is nothing more than grades. when our hearts are not in them; I see it every day. However, the choice to do or not 
For me, it is another late night and I am taking a study break or, as 1so fondly do something tn!-lY exists. refer to it, a "sanity break." I am in the process of cramming two weeks, three The choices we make today must be made for today, and not for the sake of a hap­chapters and 100 pages of psychology for a test I am to take later on this very day. pier future that is perpetually a day away. As tempting as it is to drudge today in And no matter how I slice it, a feat of this magnitude has "all-nighter" written all order to provide for tomorrow, be it for a good test grade in the short run or a over it. The drudgery continues and the influence of grades has claimed another vic­secure job in the long run, we must avoid such temptations based on the fact that tim (me}: today could be the day for which we have no tomorrow. 
On his first day of class, our psych professor underestimated education's greatest Engaging in drudgery is a decision that I see people here, including myself, mak­adversary and overestimated his grade-oriented students when he stated that we ing all the time. By all means, read, learn and improve your psyche, but do not students should "study for knowledge, not grades." My first impression of this tired drudge. Do only what you truly want to do; it is your choice to make. By drudging idea was undoubtedly the same as my classmates: easily said. You don't have to put we will all lose touch with what we really feel in exchange for some letters closer to up with my parents. the top of the alphabet. 
But as I was just plugging through my reading and the clock neared 3 a.m., I That is a frightening reality. began to understand the relevance of his words. Now, if you will excuse me, r have some sleep to catch up on_ The truth came to light as I was just learning about existentialism, an idea that claims "we are free to alter our course of action at any time." Stephen Dick is a guest columnist for The Observer. He is a freshman from 
U goes on t.o state that people often sacrifice their freedom in order to-avoid the Keenan Hall and can be contacted at sdick@nd.edu. responsibility of free choice and the concerns that accompany such responsibility. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily People actually deceive themselves into believing their actions are determined in those ofThe Observer. 

OifstRVER 

CE 
E 
Vt eo gamesWOOnesday,Decemhe< 5,2001
page 10 



By AMANDA GRECO 
Associate Scene Editor 

Here's an interesting twist on an old favorite. Racing games are perhaps the largest and best­loved genre of video games. In the past. gamers have been able to gain speed using conventional modes of transport such as cars, boats and motor­cycles, and even more non-conventional machines such as gravity defying vehicles and hovercrafts. 
SCEA Santa Monica's Kinetica is something quite different: Characters in this racing game have been melded to their "kinetic skin" allowing them to reach speeds in excess of 200 mph on their hands and knees. Wheels spring forth from hands and feet and sleek, aerodynamic suits barely cover the rest of the body. 
Each character is rated on the abilities of his or her given suit. Acceleration, top speed, cornering, grip and mass all factor into each character's abili­ty to dominate a given track. 
The artistic talent used to create these charac­ters is great enough to merit a separate booklet accompanying the game just for the artwork. 
Kinetica 
SCEA Santa Monica
**** (out offive) 
Graphically, this game is astonishing. Each track is highly detailed and almost confusingly intricate. 
The tracks are comprised of so many different levels and shortcuts that it is hard to keep track of where a racer is located on the course. Racers can· easily become disoriented on these tracks as angles change; there is no solid point of reference to use to determine if one is racing on the bottom or sides of the track. 
Often times it is a guessing game when a racer careens off the edge of one track; sometimes what lies beneath is another section of track, other times you fall off into the great CGI beyond. 
The trick to winning this game lies all in a char­acter's Kinetic Suit boost meter and keeping it full. 

Racers can access the energy in their boost meter to get an extra edge over competitors, utilize con-

Latest Metal Gear as 'Solid' as they come 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS Secene Edi tor 

Metal Gear Solid 2: the· Sons of Liberty isn't a videogame, it's a movie. Of course, that statement is only half true; players of Konami's follow-up to the 1998 Playstation hit Metal Gear Solid will spend about as much time watching the game as they do playing it. 
Konami has pulled out all the stops with MGS2. In fact, the 3-D graphics are so good that· cut-scene movies are almost indistinguishable from normal gameplay; they even have an imperceptible load time. The game is one of the first new-wave videogames emerging on the market that are beginning to take advantage of the Playstation 2's advanced graphic rendering abilities. MGS2 doesn't 

Metal Gear Solid 
Konami
***** (out of five) 
just up the ante, it takes gaming to a whole new level. 
MGS2 doesn't make many quantum leaps in format, however. Fans of MGS2's predecessor will recognize Konarni's gameplay style with only a few minor tweaks and improvements. While some games require major format overhauls between sequels, Konami wisely decid­ed to stick "'.ith one of MGS' strongest selling points:. escape and evasion style espionage rather than double­barreled gun-blasting action (although MGS2 leaves plenty of room for that, too). In fact, MGS2 seems to be just an extension of the original title. 
MGS2 does, however, change genre slightly in this new installment by adding a touch of the supernatural. The addition is modest and really adds an extra boost to the games. 
Besides having graphics the quality of the latest CGI movies like "Pinal rantasy; The Spirits Within," MGS2 has one of the most impressive soundtracks in gaming history. The professional tracks are laid down by some or Hollywood's best known sound editors like Harry Gregson-Williams. In surround sound, MGS2 can have the feeling of a blockbuster action flick. 
The real improvement<; in MGS2 come from its becfod­up plot. While the Metal Gear series has always been known for i1s complex web of' setups. double crosses and reversals. MGS2 takes the cake for having the most intri­cate and riveting storyline. Critics of MGS complained that the ending was unsatisfactory and rightfully so. MGS2's addictive plot will have gamers hooked for hour upon thumb-blistering hour. Scripted by video game vet­eran Hideo Kojima, this installment survives the trip from Japan linguistically intact MGS2 lacks verbal gaffs like "the truck have started to move" all too familiar in previ­ous games. 

In all fairness, it wouldn't be prudent to reveal even a smidge of the plot to this cliIT-hanger. But gamers will see both old and new faces as well as Metal Gear conventions such as hiding in a cardboard box. starting out with almost nothing but a pack of cigarettes ·and elaborate nicknames. 
MGS2 is undoubtedly on the fast-track to becoming a videogame classic and obviously redefines the standards in actiorv'adventure gameplay and cinematic effects. With more than 2,000,000 copies of the game shipped out already, MGS2 should be on every Playstation 2 gamer's wishlist this holiday season. 
Contact Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------~, 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

CE 
mes 

Wednesday, December 5, 2001 page 11 


ormat in racing genre 

There are several ways to gain boost. A player can take advantage of the boost strips located along areas of track. When racing over one, a play­er receives the same acceleration as active boost­ing without depleting the meter. 
To be able to actively boost, a player must have a significant level in their boost meter. Meters can be filled either by siphon boosting -sucking up the power from boost strips as you pass them -or by performing tricks to earn boost. This is the best way to gain boost, and it is doubtful that a player could win a game without performing any stunts. Performing several stunts in a row creates a combo, providing additional boost. 
Power-ups can also be gathered throughout the game, comprised of either five yellow crystals or one r.ed crystal. Power-ups are randomly assigned and can provide the option to deactivate the boost of players in your proximity, perform stunts at double the speed, steal other character's boost and more. 
Single player options include the single race, a season and a practice race, while two player options include a practice race and a split screen option, as well as a competitive/best of series for up to four players. 
The single player season mode is the key to unlocking new tracks and characters then accessi­ble in the single race, practice races and competi­tive races. The season consists of a series of races where a player must finish with a certain ranking to advance· to the next race. There are three options to re-try games within a season. Each sea­son becomes increasingly more difficult with more stringent r~quirements for qualifying. 
Kinetica adds a new and interesting mode of rac­ing to a genre full of creative transportation. Once the tracks are mastered, this game offers endless entertainment and extraordinary graphics. 
Contact Amanda Greco at amanda_k_greco@hotmail.com. 

GTA 3: for mature audiences only 
By BOB MASTERS 
Scene Writer 
When Pope John Paul II called 20th Century Western society a "culture of death," he may have anticipated a time when the average American could experience car-jacking, gang warfare, prostitution, drug use and homicide from the comfort of their own couch. 
With Rock Star Games' holiday release of Grand Theft Auto 3 for Sony PlayStation 2, that time is now. 
Following the same plot of Rock Star Games' previ­ous Grand Theft offerings, Grand Theft Auto and Grand Theft Auto 2, players take on the role of a small-time crook in the corrupt melropolis of Liberty City. Set-up by his girlfriend during a heist, the play­er manages to escape from the police after a gang of thugs overtakes the police car he is traveling in. 
Aided in his escape by a member of a local crimi­nal outfit, the player begins doing odd.jobs for Liberty City crimelords in his quest to become a "made-man." GTA3 carries a mature rating and it definitely earns it. with missions ranging from tailing suspected informants to gunning-down rival gang leaders. 
Graphically, GTA3 is in a league of its own. The previous Grand Theft Auto games, GTA and GTA2, were two-dimensional cartoons. Updated for a more powerful system. GTA3 is a stunn'ing visual extrava­ganza. The action takes place in three large playable environments. each with their own unique aspects including harbors, airports, major business centers, armories, red-light dist,ricts and residential areas. The visuals are incredibly crisp; buildings are three­dimensional and sleek. cars are detailed down to hood-ornaments and the player receives a make­over into a leather-jacket, cargo-pant clad hood. 
Grand Theft Auto 3 
Rock Star Games 
***** (out of five) 
The game is set in real time so the player will see the sun rise, watch thunder storms roll in, and expe­rience the setting sun give way to the darkness of midnight. 
If the player jumps into a car too fast, the door will remain open until he reaches out and close it. If a cop comes too close, the player will flip him the bird. 
Bullet-wounds and beatings produce oozing blood, so stunningly realistic a mature rating may seem 

tame. All these graphical extras add up to make GTA3 a visual experi­ence like no other game on the mar­ket. 
Game time is divided spending half the time on foot and half the time inside a car. GTA3 offers both first and third-person <;haracter control and plays about as well as most next-generation role-playing games. _ 
Once inside a car. however. GTA3 transforms itself from a HPG into a top of the line auto sim. Mini-vans and sedans handle just as awkward­ly and slowly as their real-life coun­terparts. Sports cars and perfor­mance vehicles are a true pleasure to handle, offering a high speed get­away vehicle that includes a hand-break for increased control. 
GTA3 by Rock Star Games for PlayStation 2 is an incredibly entertaining game light-years away from any other competitors on the market. The intriguing story-line and easy to handle interface make it enjoyable to play and the graphics will leave the players jaw dropped in astonishment. 
Its one detraction may be the mature rating, with GTA3 becoming at times little more than a blood­bath. If you're easily offended by mobster movies such as "Goodfellas" or "Casino," this may not be the game for you. But if you enjoy a little suspension of reality and a chance to express your violent side in a way that won't land you in jail, GTA3 is a must-own. 
Contact Bob Masters at amasters@nd.edu. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 5, 20G I 
NBA 
Rose smells sweet with 25 points, 10 boards 
Associaced Press 
lNDIA'.\iAPOLIS 

Jalen Hose had 25 points and l 0 rebounds and Jermaine O'Neal added 23 points and 11 rebounds as the Indiana Pacers beat the Denver Nuggets 104-96 Tuesday night. 
Al Harrington scort'cl 18 for the Pacers, who were playing their first game at home following a five-game road trip that ended with a 31-point loss to the Los Angeles Clippers. 
Nick Van Exel scored 30 and had 10 assists for the Nuggets and Raef LaFrentz had his fourth straight double-double with B points and 12 rebounds. Vashon Lenard scored 13 of his 20 points in the fourth quarter. 
Thr Nuggets trailed 85-70 al Lhe end of the third quarter, hut Lenard scored 10 points, including two 3-pointers, in the first six minutes of the fourth to make it ql -82. 
Indiana pushed the lead back to 12, and thf' Nuggets got no closer than eight the rest of t11f' way as they lost for the fifth time in six games. 
The Pacf'rs outrt>bounded Denver 52­
39. The Nuggets only had 10 offensive rebounds, despite averaging nearly 15 a game. 
The Pacers took a lead two minutes into the game and never trailed. They shot 
62.5 percent in the second quarter, with Harrington making all six shots from the floor and Jamaal Tinsley shooting 3-for-4. 
Harrington had seven points, two rebounds and a block during a 13-4 run that extended Indiana's lead to 53-39. Harrington, Rose and O'Neal combined for 44 first-half points and the Pacers led 63-51. 
An 8-0 run near the end of the third gave the Pacers their largest lead of the game, 85-67. Tinsle)', who had 10 rebounds and 16 assists, spent that run on the bench after picking up his fifth foul with 2:59 left. He fouled out withl:32 left in the game. 
Cavaliers 100, Pistons 88 
Zydrunas Ilgauskas, playing for the first time in nearly a year, scored 11 points and Andre Miller had a career-high 34 points, leading the Cleveland Cavaliers to a '"in over the Detroit Pistons. 
The 7-foot-3 Ilgauskas, limited to just 29 games the past three years because of foot injuries, hadn't played for the Cavs since last Dec. 22 when he hurt his left foot and underwent his fifth surgery. 
But although he looked rusty in his 16 minutes. Ilgauskas sparked the Cavs as Cleveland won for the fifth lime in its last six Imme games. 
Miller added 11 assists, including tvvo on kev baskets in the final 2:03 as the Cavs tield off a rally. Miller went 12-of-16 from the field, added eight rebounds and sr.orPd Cleveland's final six points on free throws. 
Lamond Murray had 19 points, Jumaine Jones added 14 rPbounds and Chris Mihm had 10 points and 12 rebounds for the Cavs, who for a changn can finally see a glimmer of hope with Ilgauskas back. 
Ilgauskas, who has missed 282 of a pos­sible 396 games since being drafted in 19%, made 4 of 6 shots. hlocked two and altered several others. 
Corliss Williamson had 19 points for tho Pistons, who canrn in leading the NBA's Ce11trnl Division but played more like the squad which won just 32 games last sea­son. 
Clifford Robinson adclecl 17 points and Jerry Stackhouse 14 -but none in the second half when he went O-for-10 from thp, lloor. 
After scoring nine points in the first half, Ilgauskas came back with 5:31 lel't in the third quarter and the Cavs trailing 65­
64. Moments later. Flimbo Coles and Wesley Person hit consecutive 3-pointcrs and the Cavs went ori a 16-2 run to open a 7-point lead after three. 
Williamson's basket gave the Pistons an 84-83 lead with 6:06 left, but Miller scored 10 points and the Cavs closed the game with a 17-4 spurt despite making seven turnovers in the final period. 
llgauskas made his debut to chants of "Z" and a standing ovation with 1 :53 left in the lirst quarter and scored his first basket just 30 seconds later. 
Grabbing an entry pass near the base­line, Ilgauskas spun on the baseline, made a pump fake on Zeljko Hebraca and dropped in a short jumper. 
The next time he touched the ball, Ilgauskas drew a shooting foul and split a pair of free throws. On the defensive end, he flattened Stackhouse on a drive to the basket. 
He clunked, made a left-handed layup and hit a nice fadeaway jumper from 12 feet before being replaced. As he went to the bench, Cavs coach John Lucas, who had yet to coach his center in a regular­season game, slapped hancls withllgauskas. 
Supersonics 108, Timberwolves 83 
Kevin Garnett had 21 points, 15 rebounds and seven assists to help the Minnesota Timberwolves beat the Seattle Supersonics to end a three-game losing skid. 
Wally Szczcrbiak scored 16 of' his 20 points in the first half for the Timberwolves, who improved to 7-1 at home and are still off to the best start in l'ranchiso history at 11-5. 
Hasharrl Lewis had 17 points for Seattle, which never led and dropped its third straight after a thren-gamc winning streak. 
Garnett -Minnesota's leading scorer and undisputed star -continued his shooting slump by going 7-f'or-20 f'rom the field, but Szczerbiak again pickod up the slack. 
Guarded by defensive standout Gary Payton most of the game, Szczerbiak shot (>-for-7 in the first quarl<'r and finished 9­!'or-18. 
Basho Nesterovir. had 12 points, and Joe Smith and Gary Trent each had 11 for Mimrnsota. 
Payton had 15 points, Vin Baker l 3 and reserwi Earl Watson 10 for Seattle. The Timbcrwolves built a 19-poinl advantage on a tip-in by Nestcrovic with 
2:57 left in the first half. Tho Sonics quickly sliced that lead to 53-45 with 11 .straight points -nine of them on 3-point­crs by Lewis, Vladimir Hadmanovic and Brent Barry. 
Minnesota stretclrnd the lead to 58-47 al'ter Smith's three-point play just bdore halftime. 
The Sonics came within nine wlrnn Szczerbiak was called for goaltending on Payton's driving layup late in tho third, but Terrell Brandon's jumper beat the buzzer at the end of the quarter and bumped the lead up to 82-68. 
Chauncey Billups, whose 3-pointer with 56 seconds gave Minnesota its biggest lead at 108-83, added 16 points. 
Knicks 85, Bucks 71 
Latrell Sprewell scored 28 points and the New York Knicks took advantage of a rare shooting slump by Ray Allen to defeat the slumping Milwaukee Bucks. 
The Bucks (9-6), coming off an 0-4 Western road trip, have dropped five in a row for the lirst time since Feb. 17-25, 2000. This was their lowest scoring out­put since an 85-70 loss al Atlanta on April 25, 1999. 
Allen, the Bucks' leading scorer (21.7 points), was held to 10 points on 4-of-20 shooting. Sam Cassell was just 4-f'or-16 for 12 points. 
Allen had a single point in the first half, a free throw with 1 :48 left in the second quarter. !lo missed 11 shots before mak­ing a bucket with 1: 33 left in the third quarter.. 
Allan Houston added 22 points for the Knicks (10-9), who outshot the Bucks 44 percent to 31 percent. Marcus Camby had eight points and 13 rebounds, 12 of them on tho defensive glass. 
Milwaukee, which had bc:en 6-0 against the Fastnrn Confonmce, trailed 42-33 at half'timn after getting outs hot 47 p1\rcent to 29 pnrcent. 
Glenn Hobinson, who didn't play Sunday night at Portland becausP of a sprairwd right wrist, scored 24 points. But he pic'kcd up his fifth foul with 11 :43 remaining and sat out for six minutes. 
The Bucks sorely missed him, watching a four-point deficit go back above doublfl digits as Milwaukee never made a game of it aflnr that. 
The Bucks were lethargic from the start, but Cam!Jy pickfld up thrno fouls in just ov11r a minute and took a snat with the Knicks ahead 48-36 with 8:13 ld't in the third quartnr. 
Othnlla Harrington replaced him but he, too, pickod up quick fouls, including two ol'fonsivc fouls and a technical in a 30­second span as the Bucks whittled away at thn lead. pulling to 66-62 aftnr three quartPrs. 
But the Bucks wnnt cold again, .,;coring just orw basket in tlrn first :i:35 of thn fourth quarter. 
Sprewell scored 14 points as the Knicks jumped out to a 32-22 lead.< 
Kings 94, 76ers 84 
Peja Stojakovic had 20 points and 12 rebounds, leading live Kings in double fig­ures as Sacramento emerged from a shooting slump to beat the Philadelphia 76ers. 
The Kings, who won for thn eighth time in nine home games, were going nowhere midway through thn third quarter_ shooting 26 percent and trailing 57-48 _ when Vlacle Divac scored six quick points to key a prolonged run. 
Sacramento outscored Philadelphia 32­11 over the next 12 minutes, eventually taking a 15-point lead. Thn 76nrs pulled to 86-81 in the final minutes, but Mike Bibby ancl Bobby Jackson hit consecutive driving layups to seal it. 
Allen Iverson, who scored 46 points in an overtime win at Arco Arena last sea­son, played 47 minutes but w..ent scoreless in tlrn first seven minutes of the fourth quartnr. He finished with 24 points on 9­of-30 shooting. 
Jackson, who startnd in place of injured Doug Christie, scored 16 points, while Bibby had 18 points and six assists. Hedo Turkoglu scored 15 points in a reserve role for Sacramento, and Scot Pollard added 13 rebounds and a earner-best seven blocked shots. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 j>.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES LOST & FOUND 
-
SEMESTER BREAK WORK 400+ FOUND: Kitten outside of Graduate LOCATIONS AROUND THE U.S. residences. Call 298-1533. WWW WORKFORSTUDENTS.CO M Lost Silver Heart Charm with. 
"November 24th, 2000" inscribed on SPRING BREAK Cancun. Jamaica, it. If found, please call Morgan at 
S. Padre. & all Florida destinations. 634-2449. BEST Hotels, FREE parties, LOWEST pnces! 
WANTED 

www.breakerstravel.com WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! 
(800) 985-6789. Sun Coast Vacations wants to send 
you on Spring Break to Cancun, the VW 97 Jetta GL, 5spd, red/drkgry. Bahamas, Jamaica. or Mazatlan sunroof. CD. pwrlocks, AC. immac-FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1­ulate, 29K, 888-777•4642 or email: sales@sun­$12,000/best, coastvacations.com Kimberly or Rich at 631-5368 
Looking for responsible person to GET ORGANIZED, housesit and take care of 2 dogs & 
cat, from 12/22 to 1/5. House is 7 NEW PALM M105. blocks from campus. $140, $300. 246-9549 287-3054, SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and Parties with the Best DJs and celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, Mazatlan, and the Bahamas. Go to StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293· 
1443 or email sales@studentcity.com to find out more. 
FOOSBALL·Looking for high level players. Are you good enough? Call 
D257-4441 
Calling Elvis ... looking for students to work as impersonators at JPW for the 1950s booth. Desperately seeking James Dean, Marilyn Monroe and the KING' Call Jocie Antonelli 
at 631-0106. 
FOR SALE 

2000 Toyota Echo 4dr, red, auto. cd/cass 19,000ml, like new, must sell 10,500 obo 631-5144/234-7741 
1996 Toyota Camry XLE 75k mi Loaded Excellent Condition . $1-0,995 257-3429 
95 Mazda 626 LX, loaded, leather & power sunroof, 69,000 miles. $5,500. Days: 231-3930 Eves: 616· 445-0922 
Moving off campus? Bed,desk,chalrs,shelves for sale-Call Jen 277-9661 
82 Cadillac Eldorado coupe. Very good condition. Going to Rome pro­gram. $2,800. Call 631·5663. Ask for Goncalo or email gcorneli@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM· PUS mmmrentals.com email:mmm­rentals@aol.com 
Houses available for 3 to 6 stu­dents. Good area ... ADT, washer-dryer-air. Dave 340-0106 
Student Wanted! Alum owned 2 SPRING BREAK INSANITY! story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/new carpet. WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM OR appl, sec.roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1 CALL 1-800-327-6013 GUARAN­blk.N of Club 23. 1-800-731-0043 TEED LOWEST PRICES! CAN­
CUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND 
BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! FIF­
PERSONAL TEEN YEARS EXPERIENCE! 
FREE TRIPS FOR CAMPUS SPRING BREAK Largest selection REPS! of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises] Rep Positions, Are you a former Observer staffer? Free Drinks and Free trips avail-Come to The Observer's 35th able. www.EpicuRRean com 1-800· Anniversary Reunion. April 20, 231-4-FUN 2002 at South Bend Marriott. 
Email obsreunion@hotmail.com to Spring Break with STS. Americas e-mail your contact information. #1 Student Tour-Operator. Promote trips on campus, earn cash and free Check out The Observer trips. Info/Reservations. 1-800-648-Online. Do it today. 4849 www.slstravel com 
Take the NDToday/Observer poll at EARN HOLIDAY CASH NDToday.com. 257-8129 
let your voice be heard. 
Advertise to your friends for just pennies a day in OBSERVER Want to advertise? Call The CLASSIFIEDS. Call 631-7471 for Observer advertising department at information, or stop by the Observer office in 024 South Dining Hall (219) 631-6900. 

\X1ednesday, December 5, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Surprising Maryland signs with Orange Bowl 
Southeastern Conference Terrapins' first conference title championship game between since 1985 and assured them a the Volunteers and LSU. spot in a BCS game. 
"It looks like we're going to It was quite a turnaround get to play one of the gniat from last season, when teams in the country," Maryland finished 5-6. As a Terrapins rookie coach Ralph result, Friedgen got evNy first­Friedgen said. "It's really an place vote in ACC Coach of the opportunity l"or us and an Year balloting. ho11or for ns to he able to play "Tt's been a dream season in with the caliber of teams men­a number of ways," athletic tioned as the other candidates director Debbie Yow said. for this game." After a three-week layo!T, the 
The Orange Bowl. by virtue of team will return to practice losing Big East champion Saturday, hoping for better Miami to the Rose Bowl, has results from this trip to the the first pirk in the Howl Orange Rowl. The Terrapins Championship Series. lost to Oklahoma 7-0 in 1954 
"If we wen: fortunate to win and again to the Sooncrs 20-6 the !Orange RowlJ game, we'll two years later -their only definitely earn some respect," appearances in the game. Friedgen said. "You're talking t-.1aryland is 6-9-2 all-time in about three teams that ar0-bowl gam0-s. really one game away from Yow said the school already playing for the national cham­sold 3,000 tickets and hopes to pionship." sell 20,000 total, possibly eras­
Maryland finished its regular ing the notion that Maryland snason 1\Jov .. 19 with a 23-19 doesn't l'ill seats for bowl win oYer North Carolina State, games. a victory that rocked up the "It's important that we travel 
Cotu·mbia· 
.GreatJapanese food 
Sporb,~ear 
r/Y Jpr·t (:0/0('"(10'-n (1[
at greatprices. 
l,.,LJ i: L.,·1.) i... Jl-, i1_. -~ !,_l J ,_ 
--· a
Comejoin us for our 
S minute~__A. from DU"'l'iDOST
lunch specials! 
Campus -J•I•Jif
Early Bird Dinner 

Cold Weather Experts 




well," she said. "We have no recent bowl history. There was a very old and outdated para­digm that Maryland doesn't travel well to bowls. I think we're gntting ready to prove once and for all that that's not true and is ancient history." 
Sugar Bowl 
The Big Ten champion accepted an invitation Tuesday to the Sugar Bowl, which will be played New Year's Day ·in New Orleans. It will be the lllini's first trip to the Sugar Bowl. 
"We're excitrd," coach Rnn Turner said. "It is one of the premier bowls in college foot­ball and has been for many, many years. I know our kids are very excited and anxious to 
. get down there and get going and see what we can do." No. 8 Illinois (10-1) will have to wait a few more days to see who its oppornrnt is, though. The opponent will be announced Sunday after the Southeastern Confer·ence championship game between No. 2 Tennessee and No, 21 LSU. If LSU wins, the Tigers would go to the Sugar Bowl. If the Volunteers win, Nebraska (No. 4 ESPN/USA Today, No. 5 AP) could encl up in "Jew Orleans. "We will wait until we see what happens this weekend ­our focus is on ourselves," Turner said, adding that the 
Illini will begin practice this week. 
Illinois was the Big Ten's biggest surprise this year, rebounding from a 5-6 finish last season to win the confer­ence championship. After los­ing to Michigan on Sept. 27, the Illini clidn 't lose another game. 
Thry clincherl at least a share of the Big Ten title by beating Northwestern in the season finaln but had to wait for the Ohio State-Michigan game to see who would get the Big Tern's BCS bid. The Buckeves upset Michigan, giving lllin.ois the conference championship outright. 
''Coach Turner and the staff and the kids have done an exceptional job," athletic direc­tor Ron Guenther said. "l think it's one of the great stories in college football this year. We're extremPly excited to be part of the BCS and to go to New Orleans." 
This will be Illinois' 14th ;;tppearance in a bowl game. The lllini are 6-7, but they've won their last two bowls, including a 63-21 upset over Virginia in the 1999 Micronpc.com Bowl. 
"One reason lllinois is appeal­ing to us, besides the fact we've secured the Big Ten champion and an exciting team, is that they have a very enthusiastic group of supporters and they are eager to see them in a bowl," Sugar Bowl executive director Paul Hoolahan said. 


Nancy CarhYri 
the voice of bart simpson 
··Fnciay ,December 7, 200 l, 7;00pm Jordo0 ,\udftoriGtn1 
Ticket pre-,safe f$tudent only}: lJ./28 -12/2 Students $Si Public $8 at the door 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 5, 200 I 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
OnlyQBs inHeisman running 
. Harrington, Crouch, Dorsey and Grossman in hunt for top honor 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Quarterbacks Ken Dorsey. Joey Harrington, Eric Crourh and Rex Grossman were picked Tuesday as finalists for thf' lleisman Trophy. 
Dorsey threw for 2,652 yards and 23 touchdowns this season to lead No. 1 Miami (11-0) to the Rose Bowl. 
Harrington threw for 2.415 yards and 23 touchdowns help No. 3 Oregon (10-1) win the Pac-10 championship. 
Crouch threw for 1,510 yards and seven touchdowns and ran for 1,115 yards and 19 scores for No. 5 Nebraska (11-1 ). 
Grossman led the-nation in 
passing efficiency, throwing for 
3,896 yards and 34 touchdowns 
for No. 6 Florida (9-2). 
"These players have had phe­nomenal seasons across the board and anyone of them would be deserving of college football's highest honor," said Rudy Riska, the executive director of the Heisman Memorial Trophy Trust. 
Riska said a fifth player could be invited later this week to the ceremony in New York. The Heisman will be awarded Saturday night at the Marriott Marquis because of damage to the Downtown Athletic Club during the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. It will mark the first time in 6 7 years that the trophy will be presented somewhere other than the club. 


Superstitious Dorsey leads Miami 
A•sodared Pres\ 

CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
Ken Dorsey walks around the hotel ballroom in circles, passing his teammates again and again. The other players don't pay attention. knowing this is one of his 
m a n y 
pre game rituals. 

He con­tinues around the room until it's time to leave for the stadi­um. His routine has just begun. 
Dorsey is quite supersti­tious. Manv athletes are, but the Miami ·Hurricanes' junior quarterback has some of the quirkiest habits in college football. They define Dorsey, one of the most consistent sig­nal callers in tho country and a Heisman Trophy contender. 
"If something happens once and works. it's something that just latches on," Dorsey says. 
Dorsey's superstitions most­ly deal with his pregame rou­tine and are usuallv related to appearance, music and trav­el. 
He wears two rubber bands on his left wrist, a practice teammate Jarrett Payton talked him into as a fresh­man. Dorsey takes them off only when he sleeps. 
"I just liked them because they're fun to play with," he says. "They're more stress releasers than anything else." 

~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes -from Campus 
Call 259-1000 far more details 
One of them broke the wnck Miami played Pittsburgh, and Dorsey was so worried about something bad happening. he taped it back together. lie didn't even think about r<'placing it. 
lie only changes them when he gets a haircut. And he only gets haircuts before big games -and the Panthers didn't fall into that category this season. Ile had haircuts before Penn State, Florida State and Syracuse the last one lasted bim through twu other big games, Washington and Virginia Tech. 
I le already has plans for a haircut before the Hos11 Bowl on Jan. 3, when No. 1 Miami (11-0) mosl likely will play Tennessee or l\ebraska. 
Dorsey certainly will go through his usual pregamo routine bel'ore lh<i Bowl Championship Series national title game. 
It starts in the hotnl, whern Dorsey walks around his teammates in circles. "Evervone makes fun of me becau;e they see me pass like 50 times:· he says. 
Then Dorsey gets on the bus and starts counting the rows to make sure he sits in the same seat every time. On the way to the stadium, he listens to lhe same two songs on his compact disc player -. and always in the same ord·er ­although he won't divulge which songs. 
He even tries to lime the second song so it ends just as the bus is coming to a stop. This gets tricky on the road because he is never exactly sure how long the ride will be. 
"Every time I've stop pnd it to restart th(' song, I've had a bad game," he says. explain­ing that it happened at Washington last season and al Boston College last month. 
The routines arnn 't limited to gamBs. either. 
Each night after tlrn drive homo, Dorsey makes sure his car stereo is on the firsl pre­set. And he always list!'ns to the same stations in order during his 6:15 a.m. trip to campus to study game tape /'or an hour before class. 
The superstitions started in high school when Dorsey used to wear the same ragged T­shirt under his football jersey. But he thinks they may have 
been ingrained fwcn carlinr. possibly when he played base­
ball  as a  you11gstor and  saw  
al.I the superstitions on  and  
around the diamond.  

And Dorsey figures parts of them carried over to football, the sport he started playing as a receiver in middle school before switching to quarter­back as a fresh man at Miramont11 High in Orinda, Calif. 
"llis sophomorn year, he was something special," Miramonte coach Floyd Burnsed said. "The decisions he made. the competitive abil­ity. the way he started throw­ing the ball, wer<' big-time plays for a young kid." 
Thur:i;daqa oPe students night. Stuclenfs receive 25~ off meal ?"ke with ~ou• sfuJenf I.D. 
U£I 
M1cl.tan«'s most unique dininq exp••i•nce 
locafecl l.1 lite bHW•l'l:f at ibe Hisfo,-ic 100 Cenfer in Misl.awalco (.219) 257-1792 ·www.lOOcenfer.com 



THERE Is A WAY. 
ANSWER ~ THECALL ~ 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 


Wednesday, December 5, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
-

Stoops 
continued from page 20 
tion at Ohio State last winter, reiterated his stance that he is happy at Oklahoma. 
''I've gut a great administration hacking us up, so I believ1: Oklahoma is one of the best places in America to coach or play collcgP football, anrl I feol fortunate that.I have the job I have," Stoops said Monday. 
In anothPr dnvelopment Monday. ESPN.com reported that Notre Dame offi­cials havi, sought and been granted per­mission to nrnot with Stanford coach Tyro,w Willingham about the job. 
Willingham. who led the Cardinal past t.hc Irish in a Nov. 24 game that guaran­tf1ed Notre Dame a losing season, has compiled a 44-35-1 overall rncord in seven 
seasons at Stanford "We 're still very early in -pro or college -are Stanford, 9-2 this sea­the process, and I can't offered. Earlier the Times son, nHHlls Georgia in reported that Gruden
say yet where or when

tlrn Se1tttle Bowl on could break his contract Dec. 27. fan interview} to accept a college posi­"Wn're still very tion but Haiders executive
mi,ght take place.~·

Parly in the proC('SS, Bruce Allen denied that and I can 'l say yet claim. when~ or whi>n \an Ray Anderson "It doesn't take much to interviP\-\ I might take agent for Tyrone Willingham look to see who has the 
"I wonder why. Why would that be?" he said. "Could il be that r·rn Irish­Catholic, and having been at Boston College and beating Notre Dame? What more r.an I say about it'? What more can I say?" 
Another reporter asked if Notre Dame was Coughlin's dream job. 
"The fact of Lhe matter is, [ have a. job, it's a good job, I love the job. I came here for one purpose," he said. "I have not heard one word from Notre, Oame, and I'm not going to talk about rumors. What more do you want me to say? What blackboard do you want me to write it on?" 
On the Jon Cruden front, Sam Farmer of the LA. Times reported that Grudi>n's contract as head coach with the Oakland Raiders does not allow him to get out of his contract regardless of whal vther coaching jobs 

place." Willingham's 
agent. Ray And1ffson, told ESPN. ''Stanford is a vRry special plac1' for TyronP. But it behooves any coach. Tyrone or auyone else, to listen to NotrP Dame if it calls, just given the sta­tus and tradition of lhP·University." 
In Jacksonville, Fla., Jaguars head coach Tom Coughlin lashed out at reportc1rs during a press conference as he rPfused to address the Notre Dame coaching situation. 
'Tm very happy in the job I have!" Coughlin yelled. But later in the confer­ence, acr.ording to the Associated Press, Coughlin foll down to his knees after being asked if this season. in which the Jaguars are now 3-8. was as low as he's folt in his roaching career. 
"It is. It is. Without a doubt it is," he said. 
• \Vhen asked whether he had heard his nanw mentioned as a possible rPplace­nwnt for Davie, Coughlin addressed the possible masons why his name has come 
up. 


The Department of Management & The Alumni Association invite everyone to attend the presentation by. .. 
best record in the 21st 
century and say. 'Hey, we need to hire that guy,"' Allen tol<l the Times on Monday. "I hope Notre Dame isn't paying its headhunting firm very much." 
Across the bay, San Francisco 49ers coach Steve Mariucci joked vvith reporters on Monday who asked him about the possibility of changing jobs 
"You guys are nuts, you know'?" the 
L.A. Times reported he told reporters. "It's like saying, 'Coach. I know you're happily married, but what if Heidi Klum called you?'" 
Athletic director Kevin White was not available l'or comment. He left on a plane Monday to look for a new coach. 
"He's going to find a coach," Notre Dame sports information director John Heisler told the Chica.go Tribune. "He'll be back when he finds one." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter.1@nd.edu. 
Banquet 
continued from page 20 
"I was planning on coming up [to Notre Dame for the banquet]." Carney told The Observer Monday. "But after talking to some of the coaches, they deferred my visit to Jan. 17-19." 
After choosing to cancel the pubJic event and issue refunds to those who purchased tickets, Davie, the assis• tant coaches and administrators dis­cussed other possible options, specifi­cally a private gathering either in the Joyce Center Monogram Room or the Stadium press box. 
"They talked about if maybe the players would prefer just to have something on their own that would be strictly for players, the assistant 
coaches and their fami­
-the whole situation with the coach­es jobs, the coaches no longer being the coaches' here -I think it might be the best thing for the team," grad­uating Hanker David Givens said. 
Givens' fellow senior receiver. Javin Hunter, missed the dinner Monday night and did not find out that the banquet was cancelled until he saw it online Monday. 
"It was unfortunate," Hunter said. "It's our last chance to be together as a team, so it's unfortunate. I think there will be something before we all get out of here for break." 
Both seniors felt that the banquet's cancellation will not, however, affect Notre Dame's recruiting. 
"I don't think the banquet presents problems, just because I think a lot of the recruits understand what's going on right now," Givens said. "Their parents understand what's going on right now with the whole transition." 
lies," Heisler said. "There would be no general public or administration." 
So when the players came together for a victory dinner on Monday night, they were given the option to vote on whether to have a banquet. The team voted not to do so. 
"I wish we would have 
"I think a lot of the recruits come here because of Notre Dame and the opportunity they have to play," Hunter· added. "It can go both ways but I don't think [the cancellation] falters recruiting that much because athletes will come here just because of Notre Dame." 
had the banquet, but with Contact Noah Amstadter at what's going on right now amstadter.l@nd.edu. 
l
Ever Dream of Being Student Body President? 
Would You Like To Lead Your Class To Glory? 
· Then Corne to · 
Candidate Inforrnation Night! 
If You Are Inrerested In Running For A Student Government Office For the 2002-2003 School Year ... 
There Will Be AWedn~~d~Y,Dec~~be} fat7~3~p~m~ 
Outsidc the Student Government Office On the 
2nd Floor ofLaFortune Student Center 

Jimmy Dunne 
Senior Managing Principal of Sandler O'Neill & Partners 
"Managing in the Aftermath of9/11" 
Friday, December 7 
12:00 -1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 5, 2001 
...: 
BASEBALL 
7-foot hurler towers over well-touted recruits 
to the University, such a high level and work on their hiUing, I think Bv CHRIS FEDERICO that some players may shy away they have a chance to be really good Sports Wrirer because of the competition among hitters also." 
recruits. With the departure of viitP-rans 
Last season, the Notre Dame "In some senses [our success I ()'Toole and Bushoy. who arc baseball team surprised much of the makes it easier, but in some sensAs expected lo split time between third collegiate baseball world and it becomes more difficult." Mainieri base anct catcher this yPar. the Irish proved itself a force to be reckoned said. "The bottom line is, in the end will also be looking to fill spots in with in the NCAA. Earning its first I think we get the right kids that thosn roles, The signing of Rizzo and No. 1 ranking during the season and should be coming to Notre Damfl." Bransfi<'ld should givn ~otre Dame playing to a school best 49-13-1 The signing class includes five some insurance in thnsn positions. rf'cord, Notre name broke into tlw position players and only one pitch­The most intriguing recruit could ranks of the nation's elite in base­er. but could be very effective in ful­be the only pitcher taken, 7-t'oot-1 ball. prnving a Northern school Jilling needs with the departure or right-hander Doherty, from Toms could contend in the once-Southern several key players following tho River N.J., a town best-known in the dominated sport. 2002 season. The µlayers inkf1d by baseball world rm:ellt[y for its Little 
While this vear's freshman the Irish are catcher Cody Hizzo League team that won th~ Little recruiting class ;vas honored as the from Tamecula. Calif.; shortstop League World S<1ries a few years best in the nation by Baseball Creg Lopez from Upper Arlington, ago. America. the Trish hav~ continued to Ohio: third baseman Matt Branslinld 'l think lw's tallest p<wson l'vp demonstrate that they are a major from Englewood. Colo.; pitchPr Byan ever spoken to in person." joked force in baseball by rc>cf'ntly signing Dohertv from Toms HivPr. N.J.: and Maini<>ri. "But he's a legitimat<'. out­another stellar recruiting class of outfieidors Craig Cooper or standing pitcher and a great person. high school seniors who have com­Plainview. N. Y. and Briinnan I !e's, WH think, Uw best pro prospncl mitted to attend Notre Dame in the Grogan from Tequesta, Fla. in Nmv Jers,,y, so we may havn to Fall 2002. Willi r.urre11t seniors -centPr­sweat out the dra!'t a little with him. 
"J think what has happcrnid is that tielder Steve Stanley, third hasnman Rut. I just think tlrn sky is literally the right kind of players out there Andrew Bushey and catcher Paul the limit with him." look at the success we·ve had on the O'Toole leaving after this season -One asp(lcl of basdiall recruiting field and the fact that we had a thn young playnrs could expect to is that playnrs that sign in tlw fall great recruiting class this year, and see some playing time early. and spring rnn still Le drafted in the they look at that and say. 'Hey. I In addition to Stanlev. the Irish sumnrnr by the professionals, so just want to be a part of that too,"' said could lose junior right fielder Brian because a play8r commits, docs not head coach Paul Mainieri. "The Stavisky to the :\1ajor League draft mean he will necPssarily enroll in wrong kids look at it and say. next summer. the school. 'Then,'s too much competition at "Our outfield situation, with 'Tm reallv excited about n1is Notre Dame -I don't want to go Stanley being a senior and Stavisky ·whole group ZJf guys joining our pro­there."' being a junior who we think we gram," said Maininri. 
· Last season's record of 49 wins could lose to the draft. is really a · Barring any early departures to was not only the best in school his­critical area for us." Mainieri stated. the pros. Notre Daine should expect tory. but it also extended Notre "We wanted to get a couple of guys to have another exceptionally tal­Dame's streak of seasons with 40 that could really run, and I think ented l'rnshman class of baseball wins or more to 13. which includes Cooper and Gro'gan really fit that players in the fall of' 2002. 
Photo Courtesy ol lhe Asbury Park Press

all seven years under Mainieri. mold. They're both really good ath­
7-foot-1 Ryan Doherty pitches in a high school

The team's achievements have letes -they can run and have 
Contact Chris Federico at 
game. The incoming freshman righthander will be

attracted a very high level of players strong arms. Once they get stronger 
cfederic@nd.edu. 
the tallest athlete at Notre Dame. 

,

r ­
I I 
I 8 tudent union happening~ I I dee 5 dee 11 I
wed l l :OOam-l :OOpm SUB Multicultural Food Fair LoFun Ballroom 
12: lO-l :OOpm "The Constitution and the Courts: A Question of Legitimacy" Lecture Law SchoolI 3:00-4:30pm "Women's Rights in Islam'' Lecture C-l 00 Hesburgh Center I 3:00-4: 15pm "Random Walk Down 42nd Street" Dept. of Economics Lecture O'ShogI 7:30pm Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company "Othello'' Hesburgh Center Auditorium ($5) I 8:00pm ND Chorale and Chamber Orchestra: Handel's "Messiah'' Washington Hall ($3)I 8:00-9:00 rn Coffee at the Co-Mo with s eaker Brian Cou hlin I 
urs l 0:00am&6:30prn ND M&W Swimming ND Invitational • Rolfs Aquatic Center 12:30pm ''Hope at the Margins: Peace Communities in Colombia" Lecture C-103 Hesburgh Center
I I 
4:00-6:00pm ''Catholic Orthodox Dialogue in the Middle East" Lecture 119 O'Shag 4:15pm ''Participation as Instrument of Global Governance" Lecture C-l 03 Hesburgh Center
I I
7:00pm NDCinema "Risky Business" Hesburgh Library Auditorium 7:00pm "Representation's Coup: The violence in Subalternity'' Lecture 138 DeBartolo I have an event 7:30pm Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company "Othello" Hesburgh Center Auditorium ($5) I coming up? 8:00pm ND Chorale and Chamber Orchestra: Handel's "Messiah" Washington Hall ($3)I 9:00pm SUB AcoustiCofe Huddle Lafortune
e-mail us at 
10:00pm SUB Movies ''O" & "l OThings IHate About You" DeBortolo
eventmaxnd.edu
I f'ri 6:00pm Carroll Christmas (tree-lighting and caroling) I 6:30pm Swimming ND Invitational Rolfs Aquatic Center 
I 7:00pm Nancy Cartwright (Voice of Bart Simpson) Jordon Auditorium ($5) I 7:00-8:00pm SAO ''Dave Rudolph" Stepan Center 7:30pm Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company "Othello" Hesburgh Center Auditorium ($5)
I I 
7:30& l 0:00pm SUB Movies "0" & 'l0 Things I Hate About You" 8:00pm ND Chorale and Chamber Orchestra: Handel's "Messiah" Washington Holl ($3)
I I 
I 
9:00-11 :OOpm SAO Crofting Comer: Christmas Foam Project Dooley Room LoFun 10:00pm Loft Shaw: Cast Iron Filter Lafortune Ballroom (free!) 11 :00-1 :30om SAO Tournament Time; Bingo ND Room LoFun I 12:00-3:00om NDSG Midnight Grille Stonehendge (free food!)I sai: l : 00-3: OOpm ----~-Class of 2004 Service Project __,._..___" .."··---·-·-".."'-·----·"..""--•--.. I
Sterling House 2:00pm-1 :0bam SUB Bus trip to Chicago lo see 2nd City ($20)I 6:00&8:30pm Glee Club Christmas Concert Stepan Center I 7:00pm ;'Blessed by the Birth" Voices of Faith Concert Washington Holl ($3)I 7:30pm Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company ''Othello" Hesburgh Center Auditorium ($5) I 8:00pm Beau Sia Lafortune Ballroom (free!)I 7:30& 10:00pm SUB Movies "O" & "l OThings I Hate About You" 10:00-1 l :30pm Open Koraoke Lofun Huddle
----------------~"""'."'"~~---:-~-----------------­
I 
I sun 1:OOpm Women's Basketball vs. USC JACC 2:00pm Carolyn Plummer, violin with Scott Holshouser Annenberg Auditorium 3:00pm Jazz Bonds Concert Band Building ($3) 
sponsored by Mon Holl Christmas Light Decorating Judgin.g I Student Union Huddle Toiletry Drive for Center for the Homeless Begins 
Executive Cabinet Tues Las!Doy of Classes-------·-·---·-·--·-·--·-·--·-·---m..»-•~.-..-·•m•~-•-m•m•-•m»w,,mmm,._,m»mnnm•---m-nn,
I 
...J;,oo.Q..Luck....Q!J Fifl!ili! I _ 


Wednesday, December 5, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
I low daunting L~ it for oppos­thrive on prOS_c;ure and noisy ing te:uns that, whef\ a televi­situation-..
Irish 
sion timeout is called. the circus Thoma<; and f-lumpbrey both takes the cowi? Even before had good games. 'Jbcy're ;iJso
continued from page 20 players give tim ball to the rel; I.he only Irish players who word. the band strikes up a JJ{1ppy hadn't played in Assembly Hall "Ifs very tough, p<:opln don't tune. 'lnen two mule checr­before Tuesday. undP1-st.and," David Craves lcadnrs unfurl a I 5-foot sqmrr0 In Gravr.s' Sf\r.oncl visit to said alter Notrn DanwOs one­flag with "IU" on it. Th!1 dance Indiana's campus, he was µoinl los., TuPsday. "It's 18, 000 team parades a.round tlm odge heckled cvnry time he blinked 1wop!P on top ol'you imd ofthP court All this is goingon and finishrni with Pight poinL-; llwy'1T srn•a.ming at you. TliPy while r.ht\erleadcrs run around before fouling out with 6:26 Jell know your num1\, ewrytl1ing the lloor ""ith flags spelling out in the game. In Camill's sec­about you, your family: it's dil~ "Indimm Hoosiers". Oh, ,u1d ond visit to Indiana's campus, 1i1rP11l. ll's a dilfon•11l VPnue the crowd is louder than a rock ht1 finishnd 0-for-7 from U1n from PVPry plan· in tlw conn­com:rn1. fielrl anrl O-fbr-4 from thnin­i.ry." lndim1a might 1:x: t11c only point nu1ge frJr a grand lo!al of Sun-. Notn • l lanH' has pla_vnd place whm~, thc1 lims aetually zc!ro points. bdiwP hostilP crowds lwforP. gnt lired up during timeouts. At th0 nnd ofthr game, Mike Sun•, tlwy'vn swµµ.-J on the Want IH t.alrn t.tw crowd out of Brey took three steps toward court and lwl'n booPd l'rnm the Lhe grn11n in Bloomington? Notre Dame's locker room N opming tip to the final horn. Take the ball up the court nice awav from [ndiana head coach Surc-, t.lrny'vi\ bm1ten lt-runs and slow. Mike Davis Nbefore remem­ill front nf tlm rowdirst I ,r "ft wit-; loud in h,m\" bering to turn around and crowcls. IIumphrey said. "You c,u1't shake Davis' hand. A-, long m.; that crowd wasn't here yoursf\!ftl1jnk, you can't You couldn't blame him ifhe park,~d wall-to-wall inside hPar your teammates. ·nmt's wanted to get out of A,srn11bly l lall. ('.ollegn basketball tight there." Bloomington as fast as he "'"llrny'n• tight on top ofyou, Any college ba<;kBthall player could. onlv fivn foet. lO foet lhnn the worth hb salt loves shutting up cmirt." (;ntvPssn.id. "And thPy a crowd ½;th a big play. cJs say it loud nnnugh to rnu.kr. Ouis '1110111as and Humphrey Contact Andrew Soukup at surn you cun h11a.r them. too." boti1 said al'ter the game. They a.soukup@nd.edu. 
Your alternative music source. 
ical players who have strong moves to the basket."

Hoops 
Despite not being able to create continued from page 20 many open outside looks in the second half, son. Notre Dame battled their way back 
"It's a tough place to play," said into the game cutting Indiana's lead to junior guard Matt Carroll. "You can't only two points with one minute left to hear anything. It disrupts your timing go in the game on a strong drive to the on the offensive end because you can't basket by Thomas. The Irish then pro­call any plays." ceeded to foul Coverdale, who prompt­
The Irish found themselves in trou­ly converted two free throw attempts, ble early in the first half and allowed giving the Hoosiers a 74-70 lead with the Hoosiers to jump out to a quick 12-30 seconds remaining. Thomas then 
T 
point lead only 10 minutes into the nailed a three-pointer cutting the lead game. to only one. Notre Dame looked nervous in the "Chris Thomas is a really good bas­
opening stages of the game, hurrying ketball player. He has a really great
1299 

their shots on the offensive end while future at Notre Dame," said Indiana struggling to contain Jeffries on the head coach Mike Davis. "I just hate defensive end. that I have to see him for the next 
"I thought we played a little fast in three years." this atmosphere at the beginning of On the ensuing inbounds play, the the game," said Brey. "Jeffries was Irish were once again unsuccessful in fabulous the entire game. He's so keeping th·e ball out of Coverdale's tough to defend because he can step hands. As soon as Coverdale received out and shoot the ball just beyond the the inbounds pass, he was immediate­post. Our big guys had a difficult time ly fouled by Swanagan. With nerves of keeping up with his quickness." steel, Coverdale preceded to hit two 
After struggling early in the first more crucial free throws. half, the Irish regained their compo­Trailing by three, Notre Dame's 
T T 
1299 1399 
sure, refusing to allow the Hoosiers to Carroll missed an off-balanced three completely take them out of the game point attempt. but Humphrey was in the first half. Notre Dame headed there for the rebound tip-in making into halftime facing a 10-point deficit the score 76-75 in favor of the 40-30. Hoosiers with two seconds remaining. 
Indiana's intense dnfonse prevented The Irish had one final chance to try Notre Dame's perimeter shooting to get the ball back. by stealing the threats David Graves and Carroll from long inbounds pass from Jeffries, but getting any clean looks at the basket in Thomas was called for fouling the first half. Brey made some key Indiana's Donald Perry on a contro­adjustmr.nts in the second half, l'ueling versial call by the officials. the comeback for the Irish. Brey "We were both going for the ball," decided to go insidP, looking for said Thomas. "\-Ve both foulrd each 
ALANA DAVIS 

Swanagan and Humphrey to take other. I thought it was a good call by 
Fortune Cookies 

advantage of their bulk against the the referees." Hoosiers' lanky interior defenders, Although Perry would miss his frep Jeffries, Jeffrey Newton and George throw attempt, Humphrey's last sec­Leach. ond full court lrnavf' bounced off the 
"We wanted to go inside against backboard giving the Hoosiers a hard
MEDl»7PLAY" 
them," said Erny. "Our big guys played fought 76-75 victory over the Irish. -· 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
great, especially in the second half." 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
"l had a difficult time defending
Selecllon~ priciny ond special offeri may vary by slore and online. 
Humphr<'y and Swanagan," said 
Contact Joe Licandro at
www.mediaplay.com 

Sole ends Decen1be, 15, 200 I , 8l76DI 10580 Jeffries. "They are both two very phys-licandro.2@nd.edu. 












page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 5, 200 I 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look for improvement against Maple Leafs 


Goshen team that took sec­team and hit some big shols
By JOE HETTLER 
ond place in its own tourna,­and just brought a lot of 
Spons \'('ri ter 
m en t last wrrnkend. intensity over the wnekend. Auording to Smith, the Krislen Matha was Lonn 
After a solid weekend of 
Hf'lles must adjust t() thi\ playing ma! consistent too." 
basketball on its home court, 
high-pressure defense that Senior Jamie Dineen said the Saint Mary's basketball 
the Maple Leafs wi!J use. tlrn lfollcs should bn readyteam will take the road again "They really get after you for Goshcn's of'fonso bN:aUS(!
and facn Goshen College on 
defensively," said Smith. they workfld on num(•rous
Wt~dnesday night. 
'"We're going to havf' to he a derenscs 1.ast W(iekencl.
The Belles will bP looking 
lot stronger with tlie ball "We did a lot ol' dilTcrnnt lo knock off the Maple Leafs 
then we were last weekend. things on de fn n s 1!," said after playing fairly well in 
We noorl to clear our space Dineen. "We prossod, wo 
tournament last

thPir own and holding our ground and worked on our zone and wo 
weekend. 
not being intimidated by that played man-to-man. That 
"We wPre verv excited to was gnod us
pressure. really f'or come out at h·ome," said 
Smith also believes that because we haven't really
head coach Suzanne Smith. 
Saint Marv's can utilize their done all of thos(! ld('{'('nsivn
"The team rnally canrn rnady 
depth as a'n advantage. setsI in a game situation," to play Friday night. We "They don't have a lot of After Wednesday game, the· 
madP a fow ITIC'ntal mistakes 
depth, so we 're ho ping to tire Belles will tr.ave! to play in that if we would have them down a little bit," said the Wheaton College
cleared up, l think we could 
Smith. Invitational tournamPnt next havf' won that game. Smith also said that many weekend before heading to 
Saturday was a real nice 
of her playMs are starting to Hawaii for two morn gamesopportunity to play a lot of at this point
really play well on Dec. 17-18. 
people and gain some game in the season. 
experience." 
"Elizabeth Linkous has 
The Belles split the two Contact Joe Hettler at 
really stepped," said Smith. 
"She jhettler@nd.edu.
now a

games and face was all-tournament 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Louderback announces 3 signings for Class of 2006 
singles and has not lost a set ipate in prnp tennis at to be good. ShP is going to brother Yan is onP o!' tlw top
Special to The Observer 
in at the state tournament. Charlotte Catholic High havn an opportunity to play l'reshnwn on tlw NotrP Danw In each of her first three sea­School, is rankNI 26th in the high for us." hockny lPam and lwr f'atlwr,Notre Dame women's ten­
sons of prep tennis, she country in the 18-and-under Stastn v, a senior at St. PetPr. is a membnr or the
nis coach Jay Louderback 
p la ye d b e h in d lrn r s is t e r , division and is 10th national­Joseph ·s· J\cadnmy. recently National Ilo(:kny I.PaguP Ilall
has announced the signing of 
Sarah Jane Connelly ly among high school seniors. captured lwr fourth stalP sin­of Fame.
three incoming freshman for (Oklahoma City, Okla.). who She also has a national dou­gles title, becoming the first "Stastny is a grPat competi­the 2002-03 school year. 
recently completed her first bles ·title to her player in tor," said Louderback. "SheLauren Connelly {Oklahoma semester or collegiate action credit, coming history lo comns f'rom a groat athletic
City, Okla.), Jennifer Smith "Jennifer Smith brings of
by leading the Irish with at the National win four family and competes rnaylw(Charlotte, N.C.) and Kristina 
eight singles victories and 14 llardcourt athleticism ... [she] Missouri as well as any kid we've had
Stastnv (St. Louis, Mo.l have combined'wins. champi­state t·ham­hnrn, We think slrn has the 
signPd national letters of has a very good 
"Lauren Connelly is a solid onships. p ions hips chance to devnlop into a
intent to enroll at Notre 
singles player and a great "Jennif'er all-around game." in singles. great player and she's a very
Dame next year and join the 
doubles player," said Smith brings a Stastny -is good player right now. She
Irish tennis team in tlw fall. 
Louderback. "She is one of lot of ath leti--ranked 21st has strong groundstrokes,
Jay Louderback
All three are ranked among 
the top doubles players in the cism, said in th!! 1 8 s covers tlrn court very well
the top 25 current high tennis coach
country. She makes very few Louderback. and is the and plays smart tennis, while
school seniors in the country 
errors and is a smart player. "She is a good nighth-_ still being a bit of' a retriever.
and they have combined fur 
lier sister Sarah Jane, who is athlete and has ranked She has started recently to 
seven state high school titles 
here now, also is a great a very good all-around gamo. player in thn nation who will become a little more aggrns­
and four national doubles 
doubles player. I don't know She volleys well, hits the ball enroll in college next fall. sive and. in college, I thinktitles in junior competition. 
if it is something in the water well off the ground and has a Sim has won doubles titles she will be able to be very"We're excited about this· or what, but they both play good serve. Once she gets in tho National Indoors and aggrnssive.
class," said Louderback. "It 
very good doubles." into college and plays a lot o!' the National Clay Court
is a great class in both sin­
Smith, who did not partic-college matches, she is going championships. Stastny's
gles and doubles. I think all three are going to have a shot at playing immediately for us. This class is going to be crucial for us since we lose five seniors after this 
first the city, then second city.
year. They are going to have a n op po r t unity to c-o m e in and make a big impact on our program immediately." 
Connelly will join the Irish after graduation from Bishop McGuiness High School. Currently she is ranked 58th nationally among players 18 and younger. She is the 25th-ranked high school si>nior in the Unitf'd States and has a l\'ational Indoors doubles title to her credit. Connelly has won thren Oklahoma state titles at No. 2 
Bus Trip to Chicago to shop and see Second City Saturday Dec. 8 
Ticket includes three hours to shop on M ich,gan Ave. Buy tickets for $20 at Lafun info desk 
~~1;i~J 
and tickets to see Second City's Mainstage performance Arrlve at main circle at 1:30 pm
-"\='ly P\'
,\Ji]. l:; ~ 
~ 

(a comedy improv group) along with bus transportation Bus leaves ND at 2 pm (returns at 1 am)
Sminutes 
from DUT'i:ICST 
there and back. 
Campus ~ 
'Call 259-1000 for more details-; 
----·-­
Wednesday, December 5, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 19 .. 
FOURTH AND INCHES  TOM KEELEY  BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED  RYAN CUNNINGHAM  
THE DINI~ HALL'S CHRISTMAS THEME BEGAN INNOCENTLY  
ENOUGH WITH MUSIC AND A NATIVITY SCENE, BUT THEN CAME  

THE FLUORESCENT LIG¼-ITS AND ANIMATRONIC SANT A 

FOXTROT 
I GOT MY LITTLE SRoTHER'S OH, 
LUNCH BY MtSTAl<E. M't' 
GREAT. 
MOM PACKED HIM A HAM \ 
AND CHEESE SANDIN1CH. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 "Yoo-_!" 61 What makes ii mondo go
1 Basic 36 Apology #2 round?
gymnastics 
40 Scooby-_

move 62 Fairy tale villain 
(cartoon dog) 5 Overcharge, 
63 Sharpen41 Online

informally 64 Asocial type 
marketplace10 Christmastime 65 Slightly off-color 
42 "Pagliacci," e.g.

14 Choir attire 43 Handle
15 Gold medal, e.g. DOWN 46 Norwegians'
16 Satan's work 1 Ta's partner 
neighbors 2 It "makes the 17 Finished 

47 My _, Vietnam world go round" 18 Friend to Franco 
48 Whitish 3 Nimble19 Not bold 

mountain animal 
50.Apology #3 20 Apology #1 4 See

66 Opposite of "for 

23 nous 5 California peak 
here" 24 Years and years 6 Promising one
57 Response to a 25 Actress Tomei general 7 Japanese cartoon art
28 Manet and 58 Name of five 
Monet 8 Theater box 
Norwegian kings 32 Treasure chest 9 As Miss 
60 Old Russian Manners would 33 Chutzpah autocrat do it 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 San'a native 
11 Part of the eye 

A S C 12 Some Pinocchio S T A pronouncements T O N 13 Actress 
I N T A Sommer 
21 A! of Indy 22 Auction offering 25 Highest peak in 
Crete: Abbr. 26 Knight's "suit" 27 Moving machine 
part 28 Treaty co-signer 29 Rip up 30 Yankees managerJoe 


WHAT'S WRONG WITH 
A HAM AND 
CHE.ESE 
SANDWICH? 
I 

Puzzle by Bemlc:e Gordon 
31 Some beans 33 Scoff at 34 Lawyers' org. 37 Prefinal 
tournament 38 Farmer in the spring 39 Symbol of welcome 44 2000 candidate 45 Aye canceler 46 Generous one 48 Burning desire? 
BILLAMEND 
HoW'O OH, THEY &REAT. ALL FIT 
IN THE.RE? I 
"I think that's mine" 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Richard Dreyfuss, Kate Jackson, Winona Ryder, Leon Redbone, Joely Fisher, Rufus Sewell 
Happy Birthday: If you're reti­cent about your feelings and ideas, you won't be be able to put them into play. Your common sense has always stood in the way of taking a risk, but this year your intuition is urging you to gamble because you just can't lose. Your numbers: 18, 21, 27, 31, 36,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Pace yourself. If you overindulge in any way, you will find yourself in over your head. Be attentive to loved ones to avoid personal trouble. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't get all worked up. Learn to kick back and relax a bit. You can expect delays while traveling or with shipments. If you divulge secrets, they will be spread around. Keep your thoughts to yourself. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let anyone talk you into spending more than you had planned. Join groups where peo­ple have the same beliefs and

49 Steeple 53 Man, in Italy 
opinions as you. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22):
50 What a wool 54 Gold-medal 

Play it cautious. Don't pusli your 
shirt can do gymnast 

luck at work or at home. Take a 

51 Clown's name Korbut 
trip for business or pleasure and make new discoveries. Time

52 New York 55 Drug agent 
spent with acquaintances will be
archbishop 
stimulating. 00

Edward 59-Effeminate 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep busy and involved in energetic activities. A competitive outlet

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
will boost your ego. Love connec-· 

are available by touch-tone phone: 
tions can be made through the

1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
company you keep. 00000 

Annual subscriptions are available for the 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Find a way to tum those creative ideas into cash. Look for someone with deep pockets to help you get things off the ground. You can be successful. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Say what's on your mind, especially if someone is trying to ~rce you to do something you'd rather not do. Join a group that will moti­vate you and raise your self­esteem. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Steer clear of people who get on your nerves and reduce the chance of conflict. Focus on your­self and do whatever makes you 
happy.00 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. Z1): 
Pace yourself carefully today to gain the competitive edge. Take the initiative and focus on those activities that will bring the great­est returns. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Think before making a hasty decision or comment. You will learn more and appear to be in control if you are reticent and observant. Focus on what's important to you. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't take any chances, especially while driving. Don't be too free with your thoughts, or someone will be thrilled to pass your per­sonal information along. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Look out for your own interests today. This is not the time to lend or borrow cash. You'11 experience financial losses if you have trust­ed someone else with your money. Be careful not to give too generously to children or charity organizations.000 
Birthday Baby: You were born with drive and determination,

best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
which should help you reach any goal. You will impress others with 

years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
your stamina and ability to get things done._You are smart, sophisticat­ed and suave. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, aslromate.com.) 
© 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-------------------------------------------------~----------------------·-­
Make checks payable to: The Observer ­
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your-home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name _____________________ Address 
Zip______

City-------State ____ 


... Campus Sports National Sports
os~iRvER 

. NBA, pg. 12
. Baseball recruits, pg. 16 
. Maryland, pg. 13

. SMC Basketball, pg. 18 
. Heisman, pg. 14

. ND W. Tennis, pg. 18 
. Dorsey, pg. 14

PORTS 
Wednesday, December 5, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hoosier heartbreak 
---------------------~~-=--~~~~~~~-=-=-=-=-=-=-==============-==================.======---_-_-_-_-_-:_-_---------------­

. Indiana beats Notre Dame 76-75 behide Coverdale's foul-shooting down the stretch 
By JOE LICANDRO Sporrs Writer 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Last vear. Tom Covrm.lalH hurt Notre Dame by scorh1g 30 points, leading Indiana to an 86­78 vktorv. This VPiH iL was Covl'rrlale's auto­matic l'n~e thro,~ shooting at the ericl of th£i gamo along ,vith sophomore tl'ammaw Jarod JeffriPs' ganw-high 28 points that enabled the lloosiNs to narrowly t>scapP with a 76-7S vic­tory over the Irish. 
"l would describe this as the Lest game of my career," said Jp,ffries. "I nially pulled il togeth­er offensively tonight. I think playing in front of a home crowd helped me a lot." 
Despite great individual efforts from fresh­man Chris Thomas and seniors Ryan Humphrey and Harold Swanagan, the Irish were unable to awmge last year's defeat to the Hoosiers. Thomas led the Irish with 24 points while Humphrey and Swanagan scored 23 and 17 respectively. 
Thomas {vas poised through the entire game, not allowing the boisterous Assembly Hall crowd to affect his play, while Humphrey and Swanagan were critical to the second half Irish comeback. 
"Chris Thomas didn't look like a freshman out there," said Irish head coach Mike Brey. "Swanagan was amazingly efficient on the offonsive end. Ryan Humphrey continued to play well. He's taking a lot of pride leading this team. v\'e just came up a little short at the end of the game." 
Playing in front of a packed house at Assembly llall in front of 17,000 screaming 
RICO CESAR ES/The Observer
Indiana fans creat<~d a very hostile environ­
Freshman guard Chris Thomas goes up for a layup against
ment that the Irish had not yet faced this sea-
Indiana. Thomas led the Irish with 24 points, but Notre Dame see HOOPS/page 17 still suffered a razor-close one point loss. 
FOOTBALL 
2001 banquet cancelled 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Ediror 
The Notre Dame Football Banquet, original­ly scheduled to take place on Friday, has been can­celled, the athletic depart­ment announced Monday. 
When Athletic Director Kevin White announced the firiug of head coach Bob Davie on Sunday, White told reporters that thP banquet would still go on as scheduled. 
But after speaking to Davie on Sunday night, the athletic; administrators· chose not to ask Davie to speak at the public forum as Notre DameOs former 
head coach. 

"Under the circum­stances, he didn't really feel comfortable doing this," sports information director John Heisler said. "It's been something with the general public involved and with all the things with that. if he wasn't comfortable doing that, nobody was going to tell him that he had to." 
The annual banquet had been used in previous years as a recruiting tool, with many potential play­ers making their official visits over the weekend of the banquet. Aller Davie's firing was announced, the administration pushed to delay the players' visits. 
"I talked with a number of the assistants about their recruits, and near as possible we are going to defer to a week in January, where that's pos­sible," White said Sunday. 
Associate athletic direc­tor Bernard Muir contact­ed each of the recruits who planned on attending, Heisler confirmed. Muir declined to be interviewed for this story. 
Safety Jake Carney from Lexington, Ky., was origi­nally planning on coming up to South Bend this weekirnd, but changPd his plans al'ter the rcceni developments. 
see BANQUET/page 15 

Stoops will remain at OU 
. Stanford lets Willingham speak with Notre Dame 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
While all Notrn Dame officials remain tight­lipped regarding the search for a new head l'ootball coach, the list of potential candidates began to come together Monday with Oklahoma head coach Bob Stoops pulling himself out of consideration and Stanford giving Tyrone 
Willingham permission to speak to Notre Dame. 
In a conference call Tuesday Stoops, whose N o 1 1 Soon­e r s play in the Cotton Bowl J an . 1 

Stoops
s a i d he has no internst in the vacan­cy created when Notre Dame f"ired Bob Davie on Sunday. 
"I have no intention of srrnaking with or deal-. ing with anybody elsH," 
• Irish cannot master Assembly Hall, suffering 13 straight losses at Indiana 
BLO0MINCT0N. Ind. 
1973. 
Back thrm, ;\ra Panmghian was tl1e football coach and Notrn I )ame had just admitind il'i second co-ed 
li·eshman dw;s. 
It was also the last t.imn Notrr1 Dame won in A'isembly lla1I. 
Since limn, the Irish have sul~ fornd U con..'i<\r.utivr~ losses in Bloomington. You couldn't ,l'ik any cunu1t lri'ih playors if'1lmy saw Notre Dame bt\al Indiana 28 yM.rs ago. That's bccaUSI' nonn of'thmn were ,tlive. 
Th<1rn's somnthing about Assembly 11,tll that destroys opposing tmuns. Maybe it's llie mystique created by Bobby Knight pacing up and do¼11 Um sideline until he was lirnd two years ago. Maybe it's the nun­bunctious crowd that 1i'il~ lo it<; 
feet 1wery limn a Hoosier player so much a'i thinks about gesturing li>r tl1e crowd to make somP noi'ir'. Maybe it's the color n!d. 
What.Pver it is, Notre Danw hwm't won at A'i.'i1m1blv Hall since Richard Nixon w,L'i prPsidPI1L · 
Indiana fans am in a da'i.<; oftl1eir own. Tlmv boo every call tliat goes against Indiana. "Buy som~1 gl,L'i.'i· es, rnt1" one lim scrnamed a.Iler a rnfrallecl traveling on Tom CovPrdale. It didn't mattc1• to tlw fm1 tl1at Coverdale made it from thn tlm1e-point line to the bm;­ket without dribbling tlw ball once. /\i1y rnJl against Indiana i'i a bad call -an opinion shared by 17, 45(, peopln. 
Th(iy hnckln tl1e playrn-s nwrdlessly. "ThmmL'i, you'm a bum!" "Give it to Graves, hn cm1't hit nol11­ing!"' And in A-;snmbly IlaJI, llie players c,m hmr ewry 
see IRISH/page17 
Stoops said, declining to comment on whether· anybody from Notre Dame had contacted him about the position. Stoops withdrew his name one day after his indecisiveness indicated he may have had an interest in the job. 
"When you answer your phone, somebody's always on tho other line," Stoops said in another confornnce call Monday. "It's hard not to talk to them." 
But St.oops, a Youngstown, Ohio, native who turned down the hoad coaching posi­
see STOOPS/page15 

Andrew Soukup 
Associate Sports Editor 

. SMC basketball at Goshen, Tonight, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER

-s . Women's basketball at Purdue, Thursday, 7 p.m. 
o n Ii n e edition 

. ND Swimming, Notre Dame Invitational, ThursdayAT AGLANCE . Hockey at Bowling Green, Friday, 7 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 



