
"Blessing Unto Others" 
Rock the Vote 
Lou Nanni's lecture Sunday night kicked 
SMC elections are today. On-campus students 

Monday
the weeklong Student Union program 
vote in the dining hall during operational 
promoting Chilean orphanages. 
hours. Off campus students can vote in the 
FEBRUARY 5,
off-campus lounge in Haggar. 
News . page3 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Daine and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 80 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
2001 STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS 



Candidates use various tactics to earn support, get votes 
Editor's note: T!zis is the first of a five-part series examining different issues in this year's student body election.  name out the first week," said Ryan Becker. who is running for student body president. So, Becker, along with running mate Nikki McCord and their campaign  weeks, though Zimmerman said they are planning to hang more during the last week of campaign­ing. "We simply think when you put  Smith and Andre's platform focus on social issues, such as greater interaction with the South Bend community and a living wage for campus employees.  that it is the right Lime f'or many of the ticket's platform ideas to become reality. However. the slo­gan can also carry the meaning that it is now the time for Notre  
By ERIN LaRUFFA Nc-ws Writer With memories of the recent fodoral eltiction still fresh in tht1ir minds, Notre Oamc students arc  staff, hung posters in dorms and put table tents in the dining halls. Brooke Norton. another candi­date for president, said her cam­paign decided to hang a general poster around campus during the  posters up three weeks in advance, people get sick of them," Zimmerman said. In addition to platform ideas, many of the posters also  "[A slogan] helps you remem­ber their issues," said Liddy Bishop, who along with Peter Rossman is managing the cam­paign of Norton and  Dame to have il'i first female stu­dent body president. "I do think our school is ready for a female president," said Norton who along with Smith and Gottlieb are the three female  
once again seeing campaign mes­sages from presidential hopefuls. But instead of talking about Social Security, taxes and pre­ first week of the allotted cam­paigning period. During the sec­ond week, Norton said, her cam­paign displayed a new poster with  have slogans the tickets designed to highlight spe­ "We're coming at this from an outsider's perspective."  vice presiden­tial candidate B r i a n Mascona.  presidential candidates. Either way, the slogan is rein­forced by pictures of clocks on the ticket's Web site, another impor­ 
scription drug plans, the most  a more detailed explanation of  cific parts of  "Brooke and  tant way for the candidates to  
rnccnt wave of candidates arc talking about bookstore policies, campus entertainment and pari­ the ticket's platform. In addition to two main cam­paign posters, the ticket of  their cam­paigns. For exam­ Demetra Smith presidential candidate  Brian are real­1y trying to stress their  express their ideas. Norton and Mascona, however, are not the only candidates with  
emls a.'i they campaign to become  Maureen Gottlieb and Victoria  ple, the ticket  experience, n  an Internet sight. In fact, live of  
Notrn Dame's next student body  Fetterman created a personalized  of  Demetra  Bishop added,  the six tickets have a site.  
president and vice president.  poster for each dorm, Gottlieb  Smith and Yogeld Andre are  referring to the ticket's use of the  Presidential candidate llolt  
Since the official campaign  said. Most of the posters use the  using the slogan, "Let's keep it  slogan, "Experience Counts!"  Zeidler said he is not sure that a  
began two weeks ago, the six  dorms' mascots as a theme.  real."  Another Norton and Mascona  significant number of students  
tickets in tho  race have been  The ticket of Chris Zimmerman  "We're coming at this from an  slogan ­ "The time is now!" ­ is  actually visit each candidate's  
working to make themselves  and Andy Nelson decided to not  outsider's perspective," Smith  more open to interpretation,  site. Similarly, Zimmerman said  
known to the student body. "Our strategy was to get our  put up as many posters as the other tickets in the first few  said. "We've been asking our fel­low students to ask questions."  according to Norton. In part. Norton said, the slogan can mean  sec CAMPAIGN/page 4  

SPINNIN' AROUND 


Students: trip to BOT meeting a success 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
Nr,vs Editor 
The Notre Dame Board of Trustees responded favorably to suggestions regarding ways to enhance students' experience of faith presented at Thursday's winter meet­ing, according to John Osborn and Mike Heinz, co-chairs of the Board of Trustees Reports Committee. 
Osborn and Heinz, who traveled to the Board's meet­ing in Washington with stu­dent body president Brian O'Donoghue, suggested the University offer an alterna­tive introductory theology course, strengthen ties between Campus Ministry and. the Center for Social Concerns and offer more pro­grams for experiential faith encounters. 

"I think [the meeting] went really well," said Heinz. "I got the sense that they really took our recommendations to heart." , 
The proposals were the product of research done by student government in response to a request by the Board that the committee address the ways in which students understand and articulate their faith. The Board also heard presenta­tions from representatives from the theology department and Campus Ministry. 
"They were able to get a 
complete perspective on a single issue they'd been talk­ing about all af'ternoon," said Heinz, who noted that by addressing a topic the trustees had already chosen to discuss, the committee was able to add a student voice. 
The Board asked several questions about the proposed alternative to Theology 100 and the options for hands-on faith experiences, according to Heinz. In addition, mem­bers expressed support for increased funding for pro­grams such as the Appalachia Seminars and the Notre Dame Encounter to allow increased student participa­tion in these events. 
Osborn said that though no immediate changes to the theology or campus ministry programs are expected, stu­dents can expect the Board to take action in response to the recommendations. 
''I think that the trustees work on a time scale longer than a year or a semester, but we're looking to work together with some of the groups that we talked about and with the administration, so hopefully we'll get some motion on some of our rec­ommendations pretty soon after this meeting," he said. 
Both Osborn and Heinz were optimistic that student participation will be encour­
see BOT/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, February 5, 2001 

INSIDE COLUMN 




All praise wheat 
For my 20 years on this earth, I had always understood that the most important part of the Eucharist was the real presence ofJesus and the communion ofthe faithful through the consump­tion of His body and blood. 
But sadly, I was mistaken. 

According to the Archdiocese of Boston, the mosl impor­tant part of the Eucharist is not the real presence of Jesus but the physical make­up of the communion wafer. It is critically important that the wafer be made from wheat. Apparently Jesus has trouble transforming any• 


thing but wheat into his Mike Connolly body. (And for years I had been under the assumption that Jesus was all powerful) 
This great enlightenment Editor-in-Chief stems from an article written by the Associated Press on Wednesday. The AP report­ed that the parents of a 5-year-old girl from Boston petitioned the Church to make an excep­tion for their daughter and allow her to receive a rice-based wafer for her First Communion rather than a wheat-based wafer. Their daughter, Jenny Richardson, suffers from celiac disease which renders her unable to east gluten -a pro­tein found in wheat and many other grains. When Jenny eats wheat. she gets very sick and she is very susceptible to other diseases. 
Luckily for Jenny and other people who suffer from celiac disease, rice does not contain gluten and can be eaten safely. Substituting a rice wafer for a wheat wafer would safely allow Jenny to receive holy communion just like all the other lit­tle children. But the Archdiocese wouldn't allow it. 
"This is not an arbitrary sort of thing, and we're talking about a religious sacrament," John Walsh. spokesman for the Archdiocese of Boston told the Associated Press. "Bread is central to the Eucharist because ofthe imagery of Scripture, because of the prayers ofthe Christian communi­ty going back thousands of years." 
For years, I always thought I was worshipping Jesus when I went to Mass. But thanks to John Walsh, I now know that Jesus is just a sideshow in the Eucharist ... what really matters is the wheat. 
It's not just a figure ofspeech when we-ask the Father to "give us this day our daily bread." We are not looking for comfort and protection from God. we want bread. Throw some yeast, water and grain together, bake it and we will be happy. Because that's what really matters: wheat. 
The pope even took a stand on this. According to the AP, in 1994, the Vatican issued a state­ment saying "Special hosts (which do not contain gluten) are invalid matter for the celebration of the Eucharist." 
I am completely shocked that the Church would make such a big deal out of this. IfJesus came to Earth in East Asia, rice would probably be the preferred method of celebrating the Eucharist. If he appeared in pre-Columbian America, corn would be the way to remember Jesus' death and resurrection. 
In fact, until I read in the AP story that the hosts were made out of wheat. I had no idea what I was eating every Sunday. If I had to guess what the main ingredient of communion wafers were, I probably would have said plaster. 
But now I am enlightened. No longer will I think that Jesus is the most important part of mass. I will redirect my praise away from God and instead bow down in worship of wheat. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Laura Rompf Laura Kelly Nicole Haddad Graphics Megan Daday Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production 
Noah Amstadter Noal1 Amstadter Viewpoint Lab Tech Kun Bogaard Ernesto Lacayo 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday except du.rlng exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member ofthe Associated !'res,. All rep,oduction rights arc reserved, 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Concert: "Mbiradinda,"  . lecture: "Panama's  
Kimberly Burja, Glen Fittin  Foreign Relations in the  
and Michael Toal, Rhythm­ 21st Century: Consolidating  
based music from around  Democracy and Sovereignty  
the globe, part of'the  in a Globalizcd World,"  
"Window for Music  Jose Miguel Aleman, Room  
Professions," Little Theatre,  C-103, Hesburgh Center,  
Moreau Center, noon  12:30 p.m.  

Wednesday 
. lecture: "Killing Cool: Igniting the Soul of Society," Derrick Ashong, actor and activist, Ballroom, Lafortune Student Center, Lecture Series, "Our Achievements of Excellence," 6:45 p.m. 
Thursday 
. 
Musical Theater: "Guys and Dolls," sponsored by Pasquerilla East Hall, tick­ets available at LaFortune, Washington Hall, 7:30 p.rn. 

. 
Film: "Dancer in the Dark," Annenberg Auditorium, 7 and 9:45 p.m. 


Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Arrest in Dartmouth murders still not imminent 
HANOVER. N.H. 

Although the team investigating the double murder of Susanne and Half Zantop continues following up leads, an arrest is still not imminent Friday, according to Senior Assistant Attorney General Kelly Ayotte. 
In a news conference held Friday, she said the investigation would con­tinue at full force throughout the weekend and will he reassessed on a daily basis. · 
"We aro in no way short of loads," Ayotte said, emphasizing that the investigation has not reached a dead end. 
"We don't feel that we're running out of time," she said, using the words "systematically" and "methodically" again and again to describe the inves­tigative process. 

She said at this point. investigators 
did not suspect that the murderer had fled the country. 
She said if the investigative team of about 35 did, in fact, have a suspect in mind, that information would most likely not be made public. 
However, State Attorney General Philip McLaughlin said earlier this week that if and when an arrest is made. that information will be made public immediately. 
Ayotte confirmed reports that a white sedan was impounded from the Manchester Airport Thrifty Car Rental agency, but she added that a number of vehicles are being examined. 
She would not comment on whether the rumors that a "middle-aged man" from Arizona had rented the car or was related to the Zantop murder, as reported by WNDS-TV in Derry, N.H. 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-BERKELEY 
Court grants class action status 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
Thousands of female employees were granted class action status in their lawsuit against alleged sexual discrimination by the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, the employees announced Thursday. Ronald Sabraw, an Alameda County Superior Court judge, granted class certification to current, former, and future female employees at the laboratory. The certification allows two law firms to represent female­employees "who are, have been, or may in the future be adversely affected by discrimination based on gen­der in rate of pay and promotional opportunities," the court's statement said. The lawyers and the laboratory disagree, however, about the number of employees ultimately affected by the legal action. The court was somewhat reluctant to grant the classification because of the broad nature of the case, Sabraw said. 
One of the attorneys representing the women, James Sturdevant, said, however, this is an important step toward bringing the case to trial. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast AccuWealher llYecast foc daytime conditioos and high terq,er-Jlun,s 

UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO 
Commission hides education study 
BOULDER. Colo. 

The Colorado Commission on Higher Education paid a conservative faculty organization $25,000 to develop a report on teacher education in the state, but the commission never shared the study's findings with institutions that were reviewed, the Colorado Daily has learned. Moreover, the dean of the University of Colorado-Boulder's School of Education -which the report savaged for "stridently indoctri­nat(ing) students" -told the Daily that when he asked CCHE about the report, the commission told him it didn't exist. The report, a copy of which was obtained by the Daily under the Colorado Open Records Act, was developed last year by the National Association of Scholars, a group critical of what it says is pervasive liberal bias in higher education. CCHE executive director Tim Foster authorized the 
report, which wasn't shown to anyone besides CCHE staff, said Jeanne Adkins, the commission's director for policy and planning. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon.Monday, Feb. 5. 



Via Assoaatad Pres, 
71 50 Portland 32

AUanta 53 33 Las Vegas Baltimore 42 32 
Memphis 50 40 Sacramento 64 38 Milwaukee 31 28 St. Louis 41 37 Chicago 33 30 New York 41 34 Tampa 66 44 Houston 66 49 Philadelphia 42 30 Washington DC 43 33 
Boston 38 31 


~ .a ..... ' 


Monday, .t-ebruary 5, 2001 The Ohserver . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Lecture starts weeklong progralll 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students should be involved in ser­vice, n.sscrt.cd Lou Nanni and Hoger Alice as they reminisced about their volunteer experiences and the times they received help from others in the Sunday night lee­tum ontitl<1d "Th(l Call to Fellowship and Service." 
"A blessing is certainly not anything that comes lo us easily. A blessing comes to us with time and pain," Nanni said to 20 students in the keynotn address of the "Blessing Unl.o Others," a week-long Student llnion progrum promoting awarenes.c; about Chilt1an orphanages. 
"I used to think that you had to go through the crucilixion to get to the resurrection. Over the years I've come to think thut the resurrection i,; in the crucifixion," said Nanni. the execuLive assl'>tant to the University president. 
lie asserted that the 
key to achieving a bless­
ing is transforming pain 
into good. Nanni has first 
hand experience in this 
field. Ile has lived in 
shantytowns in Chile for 
five years and has helped 
run the South Bend 
Center for Lhe Homeless. 
Several yea.rs ago at the 
homeless center, Nanni 
was coordinating a TV 
program showcasing 
rehabilitated guests when 
one of thu men at the 
shelter stole a donated 
van, smrting a seven car 
police chase. The experi­
ence was uspecially trying 
for Nanni who had to 
deal with the media and assist I.he now imprisoned 
man. 
"All of a sudden I start­ed to sob and I was just praying to God, 'please don't let me be bitter and cynical, don't let me lose hope,"' Nanni said. 
"I can tdl you in retro­spoct that I consider moments like that absolute blessings, they arc never easy tu go through -I thank God for allowing me to be in a spot where I can confront my limitations." he said. 
Nanni charged Notre Dame students to ask themselves how much they need to be working together and to ask for God's help when more assistance is needed. 
"It's a good thing ,o be in a position where we get the need for prayer on a daily basis ... We're on the right track." Nanni 
said. 
I le also explored the concept of "others" in the program's title "Blessing unto Others." 
"We're called as Christians to be part of a bigger circle. Christ's love for us was very powerful ... a love that went well beyond His inner circle of friends," Nanni said. 
He challenged students 
to help the world's most 
needy. He cited the 
27,000 children who die 
each day from malnutri­
tion, the 55 percent of the 
world's population who 
live on an annual income 
of less than $800, and 
earth's many illiterate 
people as examples of 
those in great need. 
Roger Allee, head of 
maintenance in 
Washington Hall, also 
spoke of his personal 
experiences during the 


LIZ LANG/The Observer Lou Nanni's lecture was the first in the weeklong Student Union program "Blessing Unto Others." 
lecture. 
"I was really screwed up and I still am. Everything just kept going wrong," he said. 
Several years ago Allee had to cope with the deaths of his mother and three brothers. two of whom committed suicide. As a result, Allee was homeless for 1 1/2 years and contemplated sui­cide. 
"I was losing my mind. God got me to the home­less center and when I got there God took over," he said. 
Allee has since been diagnosed with three mental illnesses including agoraphobia, the fear of people. Despite these set­backs, Roger now holds a steady job and volunteers monthly at the South Bend Homeless Shelter. Last Mother's Day he received the seven sacra­ments, becoming a mem­ber of the Catholic 

Follow your heart with us. 

Sisters ofcharity 
of Cincinnati 
Come and See Weeken4 
Friday, Feb. 16 -Sunday, Feb. 18 Motherhouse, Cincinnati, Ohio 
For more infonrution contact: Sister Mary Bookser, (513) 347-5471, e-l'Tl<lil: smJry. bookser@srcharitycinti.org, www.srcharitycinti.org 

Church. Nani served as his sponsor. 
"It comes down lo names and faces and inti­mate relationships," said Nanni after Roger's story. 
He called the student body to serve their com­munities but also not to lose track of their acade­mic work. 
"You're education shouldn't be put on the shelf so you can volunteer for 60 hours a week. We need educated people. The important thing is that you want to develop your God-given talents so you can serve to your potential," he said. 
"Blessing Unl.o Others," 
sponsored by Student 
Government, will contin­
ue Lo host events and Jee­
tu res throughout the 
week. This year, the pro­
gram's emphasis is on 
two Chilean orphanages 
which house over 100 
abused, neglected and 
abandoned children. 

Conference addresses living wage issue 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Associate News Edi tor 

Notre Dame took another step in its efforts in anti­sweatshop initiatives when the Collegiate Living Wage Association met on campus last weekend. The CLWA conference was organized by Todd David Whitmore, a Notre Dame professor and is an outgrowth of a rcc­omme nd ation of Notre Dame's Task Force on Anti-sweatshop initiatives. 
More than 30 colleges and universities including Saint Mary's sent repre­sentatives to the confer­ence. Other representa­tives at the meeting were from the Fair Labor Association, Workers Bights Consortium and oth­ers. 
Whitmore said the week­end's conference was a success. 
"We accomplished every­thing on our agenda that we set out to do," said Whitmore. "It was a highly successful conference. Trying to get over 60 peo­ple to agree on anything is a challenge." 
The goal of the organiza­
tional meeting was to set 
guidelines for the living 
wage of workers through­
out the world who produce 
collegiate licensed prod­
ucts. 

The conference accom­
plished four main goals 
over the weekend. It estab­
lished an organizational 
committee for next fall. 
formed a research working 
group, created a statement 
of purpose and established 
of a statement of tasks. 

"The organizational com­
mittee will also have the 
task of looking for a more 
permanent home for the 
association and making 
proposals regarding the 
structure and financing of 
the association," said 
Whitmore. "Our hope for 
the research working 
group is that it will focus 
on researching what a liv­
ing wage should be and 
implementing that. Also, 
between now and the next 
meeting they will assemble 
as much of the existing 
research as possible so 
that we will not be dupli­
cating research. In the 
future, we hope that we 
will be able to systematize 
and generate research on a 
living wage." 
The association's state­ment of purpose says. "The Collegiate Living Wag<i Association is an associa­tion of colleges and univer­sities whose purpose is to define and measure the 'living wage' for workers employed by suppliers pro­ducing goods destined for the collegiate logo market. In contributing to the goal of raising living standards of low wage workers around the world. the Association is committed to receiving input from work­crs and worker-allied organizations, as well as NGOs. government entities, business and other sources of expertise." 
The representatives decided it was important to distinguish the association as being a group of' colle­giate institutions because there are other groups who arc working on living wage issues and the association wanted a way to distin­guish itself. 
The research aspect or the organization is impor­tant because the associa­tion hopes it will receive information from other groups involved in researching living wages and bring the expertise of those groups to the CLWA, said Whitmore. 
The diversity of colleges 
and universities attending 
the conference pleased 
Whitmore. 
"What was nice was that 
we had both public and 
private universities and 
colleges in attendance and 
large and small institu­
tions," said Whitmore. "We 
want to make sure that any 
school regardless of size 
could be a member or this 
association." 
The non-governmental 
organizations attending the 
conference also had a posi­
tive response to the forma­
tion of the new association, 
said Whitmore. 
"Their representatives 
spoke positively of the pos­
sibilities of doing research 
on a living wage and hav­
ing an association that 
could provide u source of 
unbiased research on liv­
ing wages for whoever 
wanted to use it," said 
Whitmore. 
At the next meeting, 
Whitmore said the associa­
tion is hoping to establish 
the conditions for member­
ship in the association. 










ATION 
Monday, frbruary S, 2001 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Aristide's party, opposition meet: 
Seeking to avert a political crisis just days before llaitian President-elect Jean-Bertrand J\ristidc's inauguration, members of his party met with opposition leaders Sunday to try persuading them not to form an alternative government. The 15-party opposition alliance Convergence has refused to recognize Aristide's legitimacy, saying he is drifting toward dictatorship and that his party won elections last year through fraud. Aristide is to be inaugurated Wednesday. 
Ukrainians rally against president: 
llundreds of protesters demonstrated against Ukraine's leadership on Sunday, painting slo­gans on fences and calling for President Leonid Kuchma to step do,.,vn as political ten­sion grew. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
One dies in Alaska avalanche: One snowmachiner died and one was missing and presumed dead in an avalanche about 100 miles northeast of Anchorage. Rescue heli­copters and search dogs were sent to try to find the missing man. About 65 volunteers with 12­foot probes were assisting in the search Sunday. 
Boy stabbed at movie theater: An 11­year-old boy stabbed another boy to death dur­ing an argument at a Springfield, Mass., movie theater, authorities said. Nestor Herrera, also 11, died at a hospital about an hour after the stabbing Saturday evening. The suspected assailant was arrested about 3 p.m. Sunday. The boys were acquaintances who came to the movie theater with separate groups of friends, District Attorney William Bennett said. The two got into an argument in the video arcade, out­side a theater showing the R-rated horror movie "Valentine," Bennett said. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Rottweilers shot after attacking child: Police shot and killed two Hottweilers after the dogs attacked a 10-year­old boy in Indianapolis on Saturday. Benjamin Johnson was riding a bicycle when the two dogs jumped on him in a yard. The larger of the dogs was bigger than the boy, and his jacket was being torn off. The boy suffered a large gash in his right arm and was taken to Wishard Memorial Hospital. Officers did not determine if the dogs had an owner. A pass­ing motorist saved the boy from further injury by trying to back her car over the dogs. 
Market Watch 2/2 

Dow 
10,864.10 -119.53

]ONES 
Composite

Up: Same: i9i: 
Volume:

L,370 192 
-~ NIA 

AMID(: 921.85 -6.98 
Na5daq: 2660.50 0 122.29 
NYSE: 660.22 -6.35 
S&P 500: 1349.47 -24.00 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN !'RICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) ,7,19 -2.75 35.50 NASl>AQ HHJ SHAR (QQQ) -5.H ·.\.60 61.55 INTEL CURI' (!NTC) -5.61 ,2.12· J'.i.69 [)F.ll. COMl'lrrrn (DELL) -2.Ho -0.75 2s.1~, SUN MICRlJSVSTEM (~UNWJ ./,.12 ., 93 29.19 
ISRAEL 


Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Israel's major ultra­Orthodox parties announced their support Sunday for hard-line oppo­sition leader Ariel Sharon, who denied allegations that he made a private deal with religious blocs in exchange for their support. 
All official campaigning, including the broadcast of election ads, was to stop at midnight Sunday, giving the Israelis a day of quiet to contemplate their choice in what Prime Minister Ehud Barak calls "perhaps the most fateful vote in the last generation." 
With polls giving Sharon a lead of up to 20 points over the beleaguered Barak, the challenger appeared headed for victo­ry Tuesday, barring any dramatic last-minute changes. The support of the influential ultra­Orthodox community was an additional boost for the 72-year-old Sharon. 
Newspapers representing Ashkenazi ultra-Orthodox parties, composed of Jews of European background, published announcements from the religious leader­ship calling on people to vote for Sharon. The announcements called him the candidate "who will bring the country closer to Torah," the Jewish holy book. 

The Shas party. compris­ing mostly of religious Sephardic Jews of Middle Eastern ongm, also announced support for Sharon. Shas is the third­largest party in the Israeli Knesset, or parliament. 
The ultra-Orthodox com­munity, which overwhelm­ingly follows the voting advice of its spiritual lead­ers, makes up only about 9 percent of Israel's voters. But other Israeli voters who want to preserve some Jewish religious traditions also tend to be innuenced by the position taken by the spiritual leaders. 
Shas and its spiritual leader Ovadiah Yosef "called on all of us to stop study that day and do everything possible in order to let Ariel Sharon win the elections," said Shas lawmaker Yair Peretz. 
Barak followers immedi­ately accused Sharon of' making secret deals with the ultra-Orthodox. 
Sharon rushed to deny the charges and reiterated that if elected, he would seek to form a national unity government that would include Barak's Labor party. 
COLOMBIA 

Protesters reject guerrilla occupation 
government. run," said Dclmare Hufos. the mayor
Associated Prcss 

During the peaceful demonstration of Santa Hosa, a town just outside of 
BOGOTA on Sunday. some 12,000 people filled the proposed rebel zone. 
the streets of San Pablo to oppose the Government peace envoy Camilo 
Thousands of Colombians rejected plan. said the town's mayor, Danuil Gomez said on Sunday a significant the creation of a second guerrilla Macera, on Hadionet radio station. number of community leaders would stronghold during a protest Sunday Lol:al media reports put the number have to support the plan before an in what would be the main town at 25,000. agreement with the ELN is formal­inside the controversial enclave in Government delegates have been ized. He said he would meet with northern Colombia. meeting with the ELN and local resi­residents again next week. 
The protest came as the govnrn­dents for months to formalize an The zone, which thP rebels would ment was close to granting a 1,860-agreement. Residents, however, com­hold for nine months, would bo squarc-mile territory to the leftist plain they've had no say in how the patrolled by a civilian police force National Liberation Army, or ELN. demilitarized zone \Vould work. chosen by the two mayors and a l 50­The guerrilla army has demanded "If we are going to loan out our m·ember intornational delegation to the demilitarized zone as an house, they should let us give our monitor potential human rights abus­exchange for peace talks with the opinions on how it is going to be es against residents. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Monday, Febrary 5, 2001 
Notre Dame students win fillll award 
By ALISON HEINZ New.Writer 
Two Notre Dame Film, Television and Theatre majors won the Communicator Award of Distinction for their produc­tion of a public service announcement (PSA). "One Organization Can Make All the Diffenmce." 
Senior Charlie Holden­Corbett and junior Tim Ryan won the award for their pro­duction of an announcement highlighting El Campito, a multicultural family and day care facility in South Bend. The PSA was shown at the 2001 Student Film Peslival. 
"We picked El Campito to let people know that it's out there and what services they provide. El Campito is trying to build an image of a eign countries. 
Ryan and Holden-Corbett's hope their PSA will be aired locally soon. 
"Right now we a.re hoping that it will run on WNDU," said Holden-Corbett. "We have to get El Campito's approval as well as signed release forms from all those who are featured in the announcement." 
The class creates PSA to use their talents to give back to the community, according to instructor Ted Mandell. 
"Producing PSAs is one way our students give back to the South Bend communi­ty, while finding out a bit about themselves in the process," the associate pro­fessional specialist in Film. Television and Theatre said. "The award confirms the professional quality of the 
work, not

multicultur­
"/ thought we might

al center only by
get an honorable Charlie and

instead of just day mention, so I was Tim, but also 
by many of

care," said 
really surprised and 
our film and

Holden­
excited that we won." video stu-

Corbett. The PSA 
dents whose was created Charlie Holden-Corbett creativity 
and technical

as part of a 
senior 

c 1 a s s requirement f o r Professional Video Production. Holden-Corbett and Ryan researched other PSA's before they began pro­duction of their own. 
"I was inspired by a film I saw a few years ago at the Film Festival which also fea­tured a series of still pho­tographs, so that's kind of where the idea came from. But, Tim and I watched a bunch of other PSAs to help prepare us for making this one," said Holden-Corbett. 
Their methods proved suc­cessful, as their entry, which features a series of black and white still photos that gradually fade into color, was selected by industry professionals from a pool of more than 3,000 entries from 47 states and eight for-
skills are 
extraordi­
nary for an undergraduate program." 
The Communicator Awards are part of a nation­al program that recognizes outstanding work in the communications field. The Award of Distinction won by Holden-Corbett and Ryan is given to those whose talent and ability to communicate exhibit a high standard of 

Scalia praises Marshall's dedication 
• Conservative judge lauds activist on anniversary 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Va. 

The Supreme Court's most quotable conservative, Justice Antonin Scalia. praised the dedi­cation of a predecessor who believed, as 
Scalia does not. in a strong feder­al govern­ment and an ambitious judiciary. 
Scalia delivered a 


lengthy his-Scalia tory lesson on the civic commitment and devotion to family of John Marshall, credited with defining the Supreme Court's early role as constitutional arbiter and the last word on national law. 
Speaking late Saturday to about 400 prominent lawyers, legislators, judges and business leaders in Marshall's adopted hometown, Scalia said nothing about the 19th century jurist's judicial philosophy and little about his place in history. 
Instead, Scalia praised Marshall as a family man who doted on his nervous wife. Polly, and made time for all manner of clubs, sporting events and civic duties in addition to a law prac­tice and periodic government service. 
Honoring the 200th anniver­sary of Marshall's appointment as chief justice. Scalia said lawyers, government officials and business leaders put too much stock in work and not enough in civic life. 
The building blocks of civic involvement, such as Little League groups, "are not being run by lawyers," Scalia said. "They're too busy putting in their 25-hour days." 
Scalia noted approvingly that Marshall had 10 children -one more than Scalia himself. If Scalia saw other parallels between the men -both suc­cessful, self-made sons of modest beginnings -he did not say so. 
Scalia, nominated by President Reagan. He also said nothing about the Supreme Court's deci­sive involvement in the 2000 presidential election, in which Scalia was part of the five-mem­ber majority that voted to stop ballot recounting in Florida and effectively handed the White House to Republican George W. Bush. 
By contrast, Justice Ruth B a d e r Ginsburg 
federal government, while Scalia has voted repeatedly to grant greater power to states at the expense of federal control. 
Marshall wrote the unanimous 1803 decision, Marbury v. Madison. that set precedent for the court to overturn acts of Congress and "say what the law is." 
Marshall also presided as the court decided other landmark cases establishing the court's power to set aside or reverse state legislative acts as unconsti­tutional. 
The modern court draws on those powers to decide many of its cases. 
Usually known as a colorful speaker with a quick wit and a flair for the dramatic, Scalia allowed only a few extemporane­ous thoughts after his chronology 
0 f 
Marshall's 

told an audi­ence in Melbourne, Australia  "We have many responsibil­ities before the job. We have many responsibilities to  life and ser­vice. , .. 11 • m afraid we've  
last week that the Dec. 12 decision  community, to state ... one who is not doing these is not  lost the knowledge Marshall  
was  a  beign a full participant."  had," Scalia  
"storm over  said  at  
the U.S. Supreme Court," and  Antonin Scalia Supreme Court justice  Saturday's dinner, held across the  
implied  it  street from  
may  take  the  house  

time for the clouds to clear. where Marshall lived much of his 
Ginsburg, nominated by adult life. President Clinton, was among the "We have many responsibilities four-member minority in Bush v. before the job. We have many Gore. responsibilities to community. to 
Marshall never faced a similar state ... one who is not doing situation in his 34 years as chief these is not being a full partici­justice. but he might have rel­pant," Scalia said. ished it. Marshall was a vigorous Along with lawyers and busi­advocate for judicial power of a ness leaders. Scalia pointed the scope that modern-day conserva­finger at "those who work in the tives such as Scalia tend to White House who have beepers regard with suspicion. and think it is a mark of great 
Marshall also favored a strong importance." 
excellence. 
"There are a bunch of dif­ferent awards," said Holden­Corbett. "l thought we might get an honorable mention, so I was really surprised and excited that we won. I would definitely do it again because it helps to see that our work can compete with those that were done by pro­fessional production compa­nies." 


•
en,ors: 
Internships available for next year at Campus Ministry 
Work in a wide range ofareas: retreats & spirituality religi,ous education cross-cultural ministries worship & liturgy 
You are the ideal candidate If you ... 
• 
would 1/lfe to share your faith with your peers 

• 
are considering full-time ministry 

• 
are discerning your vocation In the Church 


Benefits Include: Campus Ministry • Work on a collaborative team 
C-M 

• 
Off.campus housing on Notre Dame Ave. 

• 
Full medical benefits 


Find out more on Thursday, Feb. 8, 6:00-7:00p.m. in the Dooley Room located in Lafortune 
For more info, call Amy Seamon or Justin Dunn at 1-5242 


Monday, Febrary 5, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
ISRAEL 
Despite experience, Barak heads into election as underdog 
Associated Press 
JEHUS/\LEM 

Throughout his long and dis­tinguished military earner, Ehud Barak was accustomed to giving orders and being obeyed. During his turbulent 19 months as Isrnel's 
prime min­
ister. he has found it much hard­er lo call the shot<;. 
The 58­y car -o Id Barak, who trounced Benjamin Netanyahu at the polls in May 1999, now heads into Tuesday's elections very much the under-dog. For weeks, public opinion polls have given his hawkish opponent, Ariel Sharon, an overwhelming lead. 

Like his political mentor, slain Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, Barak was a general-turned­peacemaker elected on his promises to achieve a compre­hensive Middle East peace not only with the Palestinians but also with adversarial neighbors Syria and Lebanon. So far, those eITorts have failed to bear fruit. 
Barak has never looked com­plctely at home in the public eye. An unlikely politician. he speaks with a wooden delivery and a slight lisp. And he has always found it hard to translate Lhe reputation as a brilliant strategist that he enjoyed in his military days into the rough­and-tumble world of Israeli poli­tics. 

Critics say his administration was characterized by one politi­cal misstep after another. including an ill-fated alliance with Israel's ultra-religious par­ties and a falling-out with Israel's Arab citizens, who make up one-sixth of the population. 
Barak's stop-and-go efTort'i at making peace with the Palestinians led him to propose the most sweeping concessions ever by an Israeli leader. But he failed to lay the groundwork with the Israeli public and faced an outcry from across the politi­cal spectrum when details of those offers leaked out. 
Many Israelis also have seen Barak's efforts to put down four months of bloody clashes in the 
It's hard to improve the· WHOPPER~ but we did. 
The WHOPPER® Value Meal. 


Got the urger The irresistible WHOPPER" Value Meal. 
A l!ame•broiled WHOPPER•, fries and an ice-cold drink. Who can say no to flame-broiled perfection? 

\~]Jtf::f[ft$:·
HiJijdle;l±~~Jr~~r.>s4:'.:iE;r&~•tH:~:i-

West Bank and Gaza Strip as ineffectual -even as the out­side world criticized Israel for wielding excessive force. The violence has killed nearly 400 people, about 90 percent of them Palestinians. 
His major success was pulling Israeli troops out of south Lebanon, ending a two-decade­long entanglement there, in ful­fillment of a campaign pledge. But the pullout nine months ago has drawn grumbling from some in the military establish­ment who now consider Israel's northern border more difficult to defend, and from jittery Israelis living close by the new frontier. 
Barak's personal history has mirrored that of the half-centu­ry-old Jewish state. The child of Holocaust survivors, he was born in 1942 on Kibbutz Mishmar Hasharon, a commu­nal farm in central Israel. 
As a young soldier. he rose quickly through the ranks of the military, and from 1991-95 served as armed forces chief of' staff. After a 36-year military career, he joined Habin's gov­ernment. Postings as interior minister and foreign minister were widely seen as a dress rehearsal for his future bid for the prime minister's job. 
Barak is an accomplished pianist and is fluent in English and Arabic. He earned degrees in physics and mathematics from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and a master's degree in systems analysis from Stanford University. 
L.A. replaces red lights to save energy 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

In light of California's energy crisis, Los Angeles County will replace 5,000 red lights in traffic signals with new equipment that consumes far less electricity. 
The signals' red incandes­cent bulbs will be taken out in favor of longer-lasting light-emitting diodes, or LEDs. 
Although they cost much more -LEDS can run $75 and up, while an ordinary bulb goes for just a dollar or two -the diodes use less power. A standard 8-inch stoplight uses 69 watts, while the new lights use about seven watts. 
Smaller LEDs are com­monly used for such things as the tiny red lights that alert people that their stere­os are on. 
County officials say they are only replacing the red bulbs because the technology for red LEDs has been around for years, leading to cheaper prices, and because red lights are used more. The red bulbs in traffic sig­nals are lit 59 percent of the time, compared with 38 per­cent for green lights. 
NOIDDY DOES IIEAIS IETTERI 

1•800•SUNCHASE 
Many cities have experi­mented with the technology, but interest is surging now because of the state's power problems, said Virginia Lew of the California Energy Commission. 
"We should have been doing this, even without the electricity crisis," said coun­ty Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky, who pushed for the change. "It's a very good deal for us, and it also saves electricity, which is the name of the game." 
County officials expect to recoup within two years the $700,000 it will cost to install the new equipm_ent, mostly through lower elec­tricity bills. Since the high­tech units last about five times as long as ordinary bulbs, labor costs may drop because work crews won't have to change burned-out lights so often. 
The county will begin installing them by the end of the year, said Mike Nagao, a civil engineer for the county. 
According to the energy commission, if the entire state swapped its 4 million traffic lights for light-emit­ting diodes, California would save almost $95 million each year. 


page 8 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Monday, February 5, 2001 

••• i¾ as a student body, are so blessed here at the University of Notre Dame. Now, through this new Student Union program we too have a chance · to take what we have been given and make of our­
•• selves a blessing unto others. 
The Blessing Unto Others campaign was established with the goal of allowing the entire student body to come together each year and 
•• make a dillerence in the live5 • •• ofOLJr fellow human beings.
• 

Although we already contribute in many other ways through various clubs, organizations and events, this program offers us as students the unique opportu­nity to do so as a COmmUnif~ 
at weekendMasses. 
The target for this year's inaugural campaign is a
·• •• ••
pair of Holy Cross orphanages in Chile -­
the Hagar Santa Cruz and tht Hagar San Jose. 
•

Collectively, these two homes form the family fm over l.00 children who have either lost their own 
• 

families or suffered from abuse, neglect, or aban­donment. 
• 

A portion of the funds raised will also go to help 
establish lhe Greatness Cram program, an endow­
• ment which will be used to provide grants for students seeking to do volunteer service work. 

pleasµupport the Ble.ssinJ, llnto Othe9, campaign
• Sunday, .t'elJruarv 4 -.)unrlav, rebruary 11 
http:/f\.vww.nd .edu!~btifhers 
• 

Monday, Febrary 5, 200 I The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Bush presents tax plan to opposition 
Deaf student found 
Associated Press 
FAHMINGTON, Pa. 

President Bush said he got a cordial hearing from skeptical Democratic lawmakors Sunday. but will have lo wait tu gauge his success in winning any uf them over to his pro· pusals for tax cuts and other mat­ters on his agenda. 


"I think Bush they lis­llmed," Bush 
said as he left the two-hour ses­sion. which had been scheduled to 111st just over an hour. "I have no idea unlil the votes come. They wore very cordial. Those arc pro­fessionals who want to serve their nation." 
Bush spokesman Scott McClellan said the president spoke for about eight minutes and spent the rest of the time respond­ing to questions. The meeting was closed to the press. Approximately JOO people attended, about half of them Democratic llouse mem­bers. 
"llopefully we can exceed expectations," Bush told the Democrats. according to the spokesman. "The expectation is, because of Lhc closeness of the election, nothing will get done." 
lie said much of Bush's 
remarks focused on improving 
civility in Washington. 
"I hope people can disagree in 
an agreeable way," he quoted the 
president as saying. 
"Bipartisanship is going to require more than words to put forth good public policy." 
Bush added that he believes "the right thing to do is to do what you said you were going to do." according to McClellan. 
Echoing previous remarks to lawmakers. the spokesman said Bush told them he was concerned about national debt but also about consumer debt. which he said tax culs could help alleviate. 
Upon his arrival back at the White !louse, Bush told reporters he had a "good discussion" with tho Ilouse Democrats. 
"People, I think, recognize that we are going to have tax relief," said Bush. "The fundamental question is how big and when." 
McClellan said the Democrats questioned Bush on a wide range of issues, including his tax plan, abortion and election reform. 
Bush made no firm promises on election reform but said "we ought to do something about it. Absolutely," he quoted the presi­dent as saying. 
McClellan characterized the tone of the questions as "respect­ful" and said "there was a com­mitment on both sides to work together." 
The centerpiece of the Bush agenda is his proposed 10-year. $1.6 trillion tax cut, which he plans to submit to Congress on Thursday. 
'Tm feeling good," Bush said as he and chief of staff Andrew Card strode into the Democratic gath­ering at the snow-covered Nemacolin Woodlands Resort and Spa about 60 miles south of Pittsburgh. Also at Bush's side was his brother-in-law, Bobby Koch. 

Bush said he was delivering a message to Democrats "about having a civil tone of discourse. (and) about an agenda" that includes tax cuts, Social Security and Medicare reform and improv­ing schools. 
"And I'm going to answer some questions. And then I'm going to head on home and take a nap," he said with a smile. 
The president planned to devote much of his energy this week to building public support for the tax reductions. On Monday, he was bringing to the White House four families who would benefit from his proposed tax reductions, because they would fall into lower tax bracke1.'i. 
He has moved aggressively to win over lawmakers, especially the Democrats who are suspicious of his proposal. 
Bush says the tax cut is neces­sary to stave off a recession, and many Democrats agree, though some believe a smaller cut of less than $1 trillion over 10 years is in order. 
The two camps drew stark bat­Lie lines over the weekend. when Bush warned of "troubling" eco• nomic signs in his Saturday radio address, and Democrats respond• ed that Bush's cut would dispro­portionately help the wealthy. 
Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle of South Dakota charged that Bush's tax-cut plan "short­changes working families." Daschle's comments, delivered in his own Saturday radio address, came a day after Bush made a personal pitch to Democratic sen­ators at their gathering on Capitol llill. 
stabbed to death 
dropped the next day. District 
Associated Press 

of Columbia police said at the WASHINGTON time that two freshmen had a 
A student found dead in his dispute that erupted into a dorm room at Gallaudet physical fight that led to the University, a school for the beating death of one of the hearing-impaired, was male students. stabbed to death, District of At the urging of police, the 
Columbia police said Sunday. university beefed up security 
Benjamin Varner, 19. of over the weekend. Visitors San Antonio, Texas, had mul­and students could only enter tiple stab wounds to the head and exit campus through one and body. said police of five gates. spokesman Sgt. Joe Gentile. "We're having 100 percent 
He was found Saturday ID checks right now," said morning in a fourth-floor spokeswoman Mercy Coogan. dorm room of Cogswell Hall. Extra staff also was in dor-
That  is  the  mitories to  
same dormito­ry where  "We 're trying very  provide support to  
freshman Eric  hard to make sure that  students.  
F. Plunkett, 19, of  our students feel safe."  "We' re trying very  
Burnsville,  hard  to  
Minn.,  was  Mercy Coogan  make sure  
found beaten to death in a first-floor  spokeswoman Gallaudet University  that our students feel safe,"  

room Sept. 28. 

Police Chief Charles Ramsny said there is no evidence of a link between the two deaths, but investigators are looking into the possibility that there could be a connection. 
Security was tight at the campus Sunday. University police checked student IDs and wrote down the license plates of vehicles entering the campus. 
A fellow student originally was charged with second­degree murder in the Plunkett case, but the charges wore she added. 
Some 150 students who lived in Cogswell Ilall have been moved Lo other dormito­ries. 
The university also planned to hold daily informational meetings about the investiga­tion. Coogan said some 200 students crowded into a cafe­teria Sunday to learn more about the death and voice their concerns. University olli­cials also spent the weekend trying to calm worried par­en ts who had called the school. 

Who is defining the way careers are built and grown? 

St:andard approaches produce standard results. That's why we offer careers that are anything but the standard. And one reason why we've been consistentr, ranked ap one of the top employers in America. 
Right now, you can join us in areas ranging from tax and assurance services to management solutions. Take your career higher. Take it to Deloitte & Touche. 
Deloitte &Touche 

For more information on exciting career opportunities at Deloitte & Touche, or to find out when we'll be on campus. please contact your Career Placement office. 
Cleloitte & Touohe is so equal opportunity firm. Ws recruit, employ. train, compensate anti promote without regard to /'ilCl'I, raligion, Cl'98d, oolar, natlorial origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital statuG, disability or \/8tl!ren status, fll' ar,y other basis protaoted by applicable federal state or local law. 
The answer is the people of Deloitte & Touche 
Iwww.us.deloitte.com I 


FORTUNE" 2001 
100 BEST COMPANIES TO WORK FOR 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
page IO 
BSERVER 

Monday, February 5, 2001 
THE OBSERVER
n.,..,....,,,.,._,_,,.,,_Sn""f,,.,..Ch.,...S.,,,,J,f"?~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notte Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, No,rc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly MANAGING EOJTOR BUSINESS MANAcEit Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EorroR, Anne Marie M2tringly VIEWPOINT EDITOR, Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAJNr MARv's EDITOR, Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR, Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGElt! Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chri, Avila SYSTF_.MS ADMINISTRATO!c Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTIV.TOk: Adam Turner CONTROU£R: Bob Woods 
GRAPHICS EDITOII: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERIGF-NERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.......... ·• ..... ...........................................631-6927 ADVERTISING..................................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4 542 MANAGING EmTORIAssT. ME.................... 63I-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWl'OINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPOllJS ........................................................ 631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631--4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MA.R\"s.............................................631--4324 
observcr.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATOl!S.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://ol,,uvn-.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sparts, fc:arures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudent reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares ofprinr ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives ro search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet rhe editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofthe Universiry ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advcrriscm.:,n!S based on conrenr. 
The news is reported as a.ccurately and objeaively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assiscmt Managing Editor and deparrment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the auchors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free apres.s.ion ofal) opinions through letters is rncourag,:d. Letters co the Edicor must be signed and must include conw.-r information. 
Quntions regarding Ohsm,;r pclicies ,i,q,J,jb, direa­,d/Q Editor in CJ,;,/Mikr Connoily. 

Addressing workers rights 
It is an exciting time to be an anti­corporations from its board. By contrast, stance on this issue when it is necessary. 
sweatshop activist. Today the adminis­the FLA gives sweatshop corporations It is currently doing so by requiring thattration is meeting with the Executive 
veto power over major decisions. workers have a right to organize, Director of the Workers Rights In the wake ofthis past weekend's con­although this will mean no more produc­
Consortium (WRC} and within the next ference to form a Collegiate Living Wage tion of goods in China. In addition, as so
30 days the admin-

Association that Notre Dame sponsored, many other universities and collegesistration will decide 
Aaron Kreider it is interesting to note that the WRC have joined the WRC, it is no longer a whether to join the 
requires a living wage whereas the FIA radical act to do so.WRC. This is a does not. As our school has demonstrat­Notre Dame may or may not join the result ofthe Think. ed support for this concept, it would be WRC. However, the issue of workerProgressive Student Question. strange if we did not join the only moni­rights does not end there. Where thingsAlliance's anti­Resist toring association that calls for its imple­begin to get even more interesting is 
sweatshop cam­

mentation. whether our University is willing to apply
paign, which culminated last March in an Another substantial reason for joining to itself the same standards that it administrative promise that within 30 the WRC is that it will require that all requires of the producers of our universi­
days of an arranged meeting with the working conditions and monitoring 
ty goods. Will we pay our campus work­WRC, it would make its decision. Now we reports be publicly disclosed. This means ers a living wage? Will we take a posi­are finally having that meeting. 
the public can read for themselves tion ofneutrality in response to worker The WRC was created by anti-sweat­
whether Notre Dame apparel and goods attempts to organize unions? Or will we 
shop activists, primarily students, to are produced in sweatshops and guaran­oppose them like we did over 20 yearsmonitor facilities that produce university tees our accountability. 
ago when the adminislration fought the goods to test if they follow the universi­When I last wrote a column about the groundskeepers or just several years ago ty's standards (as defined by a code of \,VRC, it had 20 members. The adminis­
when the administration stopped a sec­conduct). It was also a response to the tration was reluctant to join, because it retaries' organizing drive by promising a creation of the Fair Labor Association felt that the WRC had not finalized its pay increase, which later was not deliv­
(FLA). which activists felt had fundamen­structure. Now the WRC has 71 member ered? And will the University involve stu­tal flaws. schools. It also has a new Executive dents and staff, including activists, in the 
As the WRC was created by activists, Director, a completed structure, and it decision-making process regarding these its approach is to fight sweatshops by even just sent its first delegation to inves­issues? In the next 30 days, and years to empowering workers. By contrast, the tigate the conditions at a Nike plant in follow, Notre Dame will show by its FIA was created with support of apparel Mexico that fired workers who were try­actions whether it believes in the human 
and footwear corporations, like Nike, ing to form a union. dignity of labor. who only care about sweatshops so much The only thing that might still be pre­as improving conditions or appearing to venting Notre Dame from joining the Aaron Kreider is a third year sociology do so, helps their public image. This is WRC is a perception that the WRC is graduate student. His column appears evident in the fact that the WRC is gov­associated with an activist approach to every other Monday. erned by administrators, student sweatshops, which is ultimately anti-cor­The views expressed in this column are activists, non-governmental organization porate. I think this may not prove to be a those of the author and not necessarily representatives and worker-allies. Note problem, as Notre Dame has shown that those of The Observer. that the WRC is intentionally excluding it too is willing to take a strong activist 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Student's views heard by trustees 
In last Friday's Viewpoint an Observer Editorial entitled Student Affairs Committee and the Social Values Committees "Board of Trustees should meet here" was a well written of the Trustees, expanding student empowerment even more. opinion with some interesting points. I would like to thank Also, students this year, for the first time ever, have access to The Observer for noting the hard work of the Student Union the full committee agenda. This insight allows students not Board of Trustees Committee. Additionally, I am glad to see only knowledge of what the Trustees are discussing, but also that they agree with the Student Union's attempts to encour­empowers us to address such issues in the time we hold the age a student voice at all Board of Trustees meetings. I can­floor. In other words, this past year has seen students with not tell you how important Brooke and I feel that the voice of more access to Trustee meetings than ever before. In work­the students be heard at all levels of University governance. ing with Father Poorman, the Vice-President for Student In fact, that is why we have worked so hard to allow students Affairs and Mr. Goodyear, chair of the Student Affairs into the winter meeting of the Board of Trustees. Committee, we have garnered the ability to give more stu­
l do, however, feel the need to clarify some of the points dent input into the highest level of debate about the future of raised in the editorial. First, the Board of Trustees does meet our University. Brooke and I are extremely proud of these on campus twice a year. The Trustees meet three times accomplishments. annually. The Fall and Spring meetings are held on our cam­For the winter meeting, John Osborne, Mike Heinz and the pus, while the winter meetings remain at an off-campus loca­entire Student Union Board of Trustees Report Committee tion, most recently Washington, D.C. Secondly, this is not worked extremely hard to ensure that we represent all stu­"the first time in Notre Dame history" that students will dent viewpoints and not just our own. Such an effort requires address the Board of Trustees meeting. It is our first time to a constant self-evaluation for everything we do. I would like present at the winter meeting of the Board. Students have to publicly thank these students for their diligent efforts. This had access to the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of past report was perhaps one of the most successful in recent Trustees for about the last 20 years at both the Spring and history due to their dedication and hard work for the stu­Fall meetings on Campus. While the committee meets for dents. It means a great deal to me not only as a part of their approximately fours hours in a given day, the subject matter team. but as a student whose views are represented. of the meeting is controlled by the student<; for about a quar­ter of this time. It is our opportunity to voice the concerns Brian O'Donoghu and issues with which students arc most concerned. For the Student Body Presiden past two meetings, the students have met with both the February 4, 200 
DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
I'M A NATURE LOVER.. WHEN I FISH I I ONLy DO CATCH-AND­RELEASE.  IN OTHER WORDS. YOU TORTUP.E. f!$1-\ FOP. f UN .  ONDER.. W RYTHING I DO NOS BAD WHE  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Writers aren't exactly people ... they 're a whole lot ofpeople trying to be one person. 
F. Scott Fitzgerald author 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE
Monday, February 5, 200 l 
BSERVER 
page 11 

Paper versus procrastination 
Ever woken up at 11 :30 and had a Philosophy paper due at I? You sprint over tu the cluster. Winded. Smelly. Hung­over. You start by being distracted by the hot girl on the computer across from you, laughing al her com­putnr just so you 
Josh Kirley

know lhal her friends 
wriw the funniest e­
mails ever. lf'you have, your internal Swift's monologue may have Confederate gone something like 
lhis. 
"OK. Find a short question with a sim­ple answer. That will give me the momen­tum I need to get through this bit of busy work. I!ere we arc. No. 5. Short and sweet. What is holistic about 'anomaJous monism''' OK. Six words in the question, I know three of them. If I walk back to my room lbr a dictionary. I won't be able to get 11 computer when I get back. Will you look at those pathetic wannabes eyeing this one? Like they'd slit my throat to get on this computer, just to check their e­mail. No respect for academia. Scavengers! It's probably best that I do the questions in order anyway. They probably build on each other. Noon. One hour 'ti! class, seven questions left. That's roughly eight minutes per question, allow­ing time lo print this out, which irrespon­sibly assumes I'll find a printer that works, and Lime to walk to class. that's uboul seven minutes per question. 
Must work. OK.just seven questions, answered in essay form. Let's go, pump 'em out. No. 1. Docs a Functionalist account of mind imply that, at least in principle, robots or computers which are 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
"functionally isomorphic" with a human's mental life, ipso facto must be said to have real minds? OK. No. 2, then. 
No. Get serious. Read the question; break it up into smaller parts. I bet it's a trick question anyway. Why am I in this class? I'm a business major. I have no interest in philosophy. When will I ever use this? Doesn't this professor know that I'm only in here because it's required,? I bot he doesn't even care. They never care. 
I bet I can list 20 reasons to not do this assignment. I think I will. I've already thought of at least five. the first of which, being that the professor is unsympathetic. Man, if I'd been writing the reasons out as I thought of them, I wouldn't be wasting this time now. Need better time manage­ment. Wow, 12:10. I've been working on thL,;; thing for almost 15 minutes. Doogie said I didn't have the focus to work on an assignment for 10 straight minutes. I proved him wrong four minutes ago. I think I'll e-mail him right now just to rub it in his face. Hey, I have new mail. Wow. Three new messages. And ... all from my parents. 'What?! How can I still I owe my dad $20.' That's like 10 beers. I don't have that kind of money ... to spend ... on debts. Why is it that cognitively, beer is my standard unit of currency? Always used in price comparison or deciding whether or not I can afford something. Well, only 40 minutes 'ti.I class. It's crunch time. Man, college is stressful. 
Hey, there's that blue-haired kid from my class. He's e-mailing too, there's no way he'll finish this on time. At least, 1 won't be the only one. If he's trying to express his individuality with that look, why does he have a blue hair-do and tat­tercd clothes identical to that of all his more than ono day's notice of' an assign­
friends? Collective individuality. Quite ment before the day it is due. If' for 110 daring. Hey, maybe l can work that into 
other reason than to put all stud1mts on the answers of one of these questions. the same, equal, competitiv<~ l<wnl .. with Dang. He's printing out his paper. Over­me. I think I'll µropos<' thal to Monk. I'll <~­achieving freak! All right, can't be shown mail it to him now,.. That's it! I'll P-rnail up by him. Use him as inspiration. my profossor a request for an nxL1•11sio11. 
Freak is my muse. 

Back to work. How can this guy expect us to answer seven poorly worded questions in just 40 minutes'? ... Without having read the essay or gone to the lectures, no less. Is this guy mad? Slave driver. He gives us more work than I get in my real classes. It is absolutely impossible to give this assignment its due attention and com­plete it in the time allot­ted. I need an extension. I'll go to him before class and get an extension. No, too desperate. I'll run to his office. No, he'll give me some dribbte like, 'I assigned this two weeks ago and you're coming to me now.' With a condescending 
emphasis on the now. That's another thing. The instructors know we or I, don't start the assignment 'ti] the day it's due. Yet, they insist on telling us about it weeks in advance. Only, so they can rub it in our faces when we don't get it done. Conspiracy is what that is. That's another reason to not even bother. I'm a conscien­tious objector. Civil disobedience in the face of this academic machine. Now, there's an essay. They should give no 
Helping to fight cancer 
Juniors Conor Murphy and Brionne Clary as well as 14 year-old Scott Delgadillo of San Diego shared a deep love of Notre Dame and touched lhc hearts of countless people on this campus. Their recenl deaths have brought the Notre Dame family together as we grieve their loss and celebrate their lives. No one will ever forget the way each of them inspired us with their strength, courage and faith over lhese past months. 
These three beautiful people also shared the fate ol' being stricken with leukemia. a cancer of the blood and bone marrow. This cancer is the No. 1 disease killer of children under the age of 
15. However, it is not just a killer of children. Leukemia strikes nearly 10 times as many adults as children. More than half of all the cases occur in persons over age 60. Every week there are 1,900 new cases of leukemia and the related dis­eases of lymphoma, myeloma and Hodgkin's dis­ease diagnosed in the United States. Each week approximately 1.100 Americans die of these dis­eases. No one has to look very far to find a rela­tivn, neighbor or friend who has been part of these tragic numb,irs. 
We can grieve the deaths of these three incred­ible members of the Notre Dame family but what can we do to continue their fight against these diseases? One of the answers came in the over­whelming student response last year to register us bone marrow donors. lf'you missed this opportunity, you can register by contacting blood donor services at the South Hend Medical Foundation 234-4176 Ext. 6-411. 
l\nother answer might be to join The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Team in Training (TNT) where you would be a symbol of hope for local leukemia patient<;. TNT has trained more than 60,000 runners, walkers and cyclists and raised more than $160 million for cancer research since its launch in 1988. You arc matched with a local patient with a blood cancer in whose honor you walk. run or cycle and raise funds for a cure. Instead of a local patient, you could choose some­one you know who is struggling with the disease or dedicate your fundraising and athletic efforts in memory of Conor, Brianne or Scott. 
Team in Training gives its members compre­hensive coaching and training as well as fundraising support. They ask healthy people to run, walk or cycle on behalf of those stricken with leukemia. Upcoming events include the Indianapolis Life 500 Half Marathon (May 5). the Suzuki Rock 'n' Roll Marathon in San Diego (Scott's home) on June 3, America's Most Beautiful Bike Ride (100 miles) in Lake Tahoe on June 3 and the Mayor's Midnight Sun Marathon in Anchorage, Ala. on June 23. All team mem­bers have to raise set amounts of money for leukemia research. In exchange, Team in Training provides travel. accommodations, entry fees and other logistics for these events. Running a half marathon or a marathon, biking 100 miles, or walking a marathon is no easy task. It becomes much easier when you realize the daily struggle leukemia victims face in their battle with this cancer. 
The local chapter of The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Team in Training is just start­ing up its training program for the events listed above and there are members of the Notre Dame community already committed. If you are inter­ested in joining the fight against leukemia in this fashion, please contact Kim Dueringer at (219) 264-7334 or e-mail her (kim_dueringer@yahoo.com). The TNT website is www.lsa-teamintraining.org. 
The lives ofConor Murphy, Brionne Clary and Scott Delgadillo were taken too soon by leukemia. Do what you can to help find the cure for future generations. 
Tim Rippinger 

Development Department February 4, 200 I 
~ Yeah_, and I'll SPL bal'k Llw dalt• on /-------:~" llus curnµulcr. IImv do y1H1 do 
that? Will it work'' \\'lint ii" Ill'\ clrncknd his mail n•r1·11tlv'' Can 1\-IJlail gt•t lost in th1• P:111ail".' 
Who rarps'1 I'll say 'hut didn't you g1•L my ii-mail''' lle'II t'l'Lurn to find ii \\ail­
ing for him at his olfo 1·, fol'! stupid. Im apologPtil' and give 11w ,rn 1~:1:t1•nsio11, with bonus. Pun• gnnius. 
I 11~11. if' I'm backdating it. assuming that's possibl<•, l'vt• got p[P11Ly ol" LillH' lo 

write that IPtWr. Ti1111• w make out that !isl. h1•n , more time tu do that assign­ment. I won't ewn go to rlass.,j/ I'm just gonna sit hen• and play Minesweeper, guilt frnn . .lust to piss off those scawngcrs in lint'. 
Yeah, just chill. Maybe do a litthi P•lllail. Wow, I've bcP,n vvorking on this assign­ment for almost an hour. lkal with that, Dougie. 
Joshua Kirley is a merniJer ofthe class of '99. Ile currently liues and teaches in Cape Coral. Fla. Ile can be reached at MrKirley@aol.com. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CARE addresses monologue issue 
CARE and the Womyn's Center at Saint Mary's are very sorry to bring you the news that our administration has refused to support a performance of "The Vagina Monologues" this semester. We have been informed that under no circumstances are we to perform this play and we'd like to apologize to all those who were looking forward to seeing it. We'd also like to thank all the students. faculty members and administrators who have supported us either last year or at the "speak out" this year. 
For those who are unfamiliar with "The Vagina Monologues" and the V-Day College Initiative, it is a nationwide movement to take a stand against violence toward women. The play was written by Eve Ensler and is a compilation of thousands of women's experiences all over the world. Neither Ensler nor the V-Day College Initiative receives any compensation for our performance. All proceeds are donated to the local charity of our choice. Last year, we raised more than $1,000 for Sexual Offense Services, a local organization whose mission is to help women overcome the pain that results from the many forms of 
sexual violence perpetrated against women. More information is avail­able at www.vday.org. 
And though we cannot perform the play this year, we are still com­mitted to the mission set forth by the College Initiative: to stop all forms of sexual violence against women. We know that both of our campuses are likewise committed to this mission and we thank you for all the supporters who attended CAHE's "Take Back the Night" and the various CARE meetings throughout the year. 
As a final note, we'd like to thank all those students, faculty and staff who voiced their opinion. whether in support or opposition, about the effect The Vagina Monologues has had on our campuses. To those who have not yet spoken out on this issue, please do noi lei your voice go 
unheard. 
The Officers of Saint Mary's CARE Julie Frischkorn 
senior, off-campus 
Emily Koelsch 
senior, Annun,ia1a Hall Angela Romano · 
senior, off~c.:;.1ntpus 
Katie Poynter 

si,nior, l.cMam H.111 I January .'11, 200 I 
I 
j 

page 12 
Monday, February 5, 2001 

Notre Dame 'top 
ten' lists abound in the cold of winter 
Places to go after midnight in South Bend: 
10. Study loft 5. Denny's 
9. Library 4. Meijer's 
8. The lluddle 3. Reckers 
7. Osco Drug 2. Nick's Patio 
6. Hollywood Diner 1. Nowhere 
Nicest-Looking Buildings on Campus: 
10. Water Tower 
9. Old College 
8. Dillon Hall 
7. The Rockne Memorial 
6. Alumni Hall 
5. South Dining Ball 
4. Washington Hall 


3. Bond Hall Scott Little 
2. The Main Building 
1. Stepan Center 
Student Activities Throughout the Year: Just a little 
10. Registration 
9. Moving In 
8. Fisher Regatta 
7. Finals 
6. Dances 5.-1. Notre Dame football home games 
Things People Talk about at Parties: 
10. Football 5. Hello, how are you? 
9. Basketball 4. How are we going to get home? 
8. Where are the cups? 3. Nice outfit. 
7. Where is the keg? 2. Other parties 
6. Who is that girl? 1. How wasted they are 
Dining Hall Favorites: 
10. Beets 
9. Toad in the Hole 
8. Salisbury steak 
7. Italian sausage 
6. Left over peanut butter and jelly sandwich in the container 
5. Garbonzo beans 
4. Grits 
3. Broccoli quesadilla 2. Yellow Jell-0 
1. Hello Dolly Bars 
Interesting Facts: 
10. Chances a ND student will marry another Domer: 2/3 
9. Average number ofsocks lost per student while at ND: 6 pairs 
B. Number of ND daily planners sold each year: 6,000 
7. Average number of hours a ND student spends on a computer during the school year: time equal to 33 days 
6. Average number of boyfriends/girlfriends the average student has while at ND: 1.9 
5. Average length of boyfriend/girlfriend relationship: 11 months 
4. Average number of lifelong friends made: 3 
3. Average number of enemies made: 0.1 
2. Average number of movies watched in four years at ND: 367 
1. Person to bathroom ratio: 18:1 

Interesting Facts II: 
10. PETA is doing research at ND regarding the overfeeding of squirrels 
9. Average number of real fires at ND per year: 2.1 
8. Average number of false fire alarms at ND per year: 17 
7. Percentage of people on campus who have glasses: 86% 

6. Percentage of Domers who have had cosmetic surgery: 1% 
5. Percentage of undergrad students who live off campus: 16% 

4. Average time spent per year in the shower for men: 42 hours 
3. Average time spent per year in the shower for women: 4 days, 13 hours 
2. Number of pairs of underwear the average ND male has: 7 
1. Number of pairs of underwear the average ND female has: 16 
Reasons to skip class: 
10. Enjoying the weather (well, not yet) 
9. Eating 
B. Playing a video game 
7. Too tire,d 
6. Too hung-over 
5. Still drunk 
4. Sick 
3. Class is too boring 
2. You knew there wasn't going to be a quiz 
1. Doing work for another class 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 


By SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Wricer 

Meet Brad. .Brad is the kind of guy that every student at Notre Dame knows. He's the one guy that never seems to be doing any­thing when the rest of the campus is having a collective aneurysm over their the next paper, the next final, the next second of existence. 
Most of Brad's time is divided between playing Playstation NHL Hockey and going to and from the Boat Club. As he curls up into bed at 11:30 a.m., passersbys on their way to write historical analysis papers or pre­pare their coming chemistry labs are known to curse the leisure that Brad, the business major, enjoys. 
The business major is an interesting ani­mal. However, his program of study is much more complex than the Boat Club and NHL Hockey. Welcome to the elusive course of study know as the Mendoza College of Business. 
The Mendoza College of Business did not always bear the Mendoza name. In fact, the college was originally named the College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce in 1921 when ii opened its doors to Notre Dame stu­dents. 
In 1961, the college was renamed the College of Business Administration, a name it retained until March of 2000 when Tom and Kathy Mendoza (the former, a 1973 Notre Dame alumnus) gave the University a naming grant of $35 million, the largest donation in the school's history. 
Tom Mendoza is the president of Network Appliance. a technology infrastructure com­pany that currently handles the majority of the world's e-mail communication. His wife Kathy serves as the senior director of Worldwide Strategic Operations at NetApp and serves on the Advisory Board of the Mendoza College of Business. 
The Mendoza grant serves the 1,947 undergraduate students -a whopping 24 percent of the Notre Dame student body ­who are enrolled in the business school. Their programs of study include accountan­
cy, finance and business economics, man­agement, management information systems and marketing. 
The study of business is half way between a science and an art. For example, while marketing majors must take number­crunching economics courses, they must also acquire a number of behavioral psychology credits. 
But what is so great about the business college? Besides the extra amount of sleep, the college's track record speaks for itself. 
Graduates of the Mendoza College of Business consistently report close to 100 percent employment by three months after their graduation. with an average salary of $42,801. It has also been ranked among the highest in alumni networking by numerous news magazines including Newsweek and Time. 
But what about that extra sleep? Is it real­ly true that business students have to do sig­nificantly less work than other majors? 
"That stereotype is absolutely false." said Dan Sirkin, a sophomore accountancy major. "It's just that the standard of a business stu­dent is someone who can organize their time and get their work done efficiently. That's what being a business student is all about." 
"I think all the different majors have a serious chip on their shoulders," said senior computer science major Mike Crowley. "They want to believe that they have it so much worse off than other majors. [But] all the majors have a heavy workload." 
In fact, the Mendoza College of Business is widely recognized as one of the country's most challenging programs of business study. 
Its faculty. like marketing instructor Kevin Bradford who received the American Marketing Association's "Best Paper Award" in 2000, has also been highly acclaimed by news journals and professional associations alike. 
Like most business students, our subject Brad knows how good his college is. But now it's time for him to get some sleep. He has a 
8:30 a.m. micro-economics class, and he needs to rest up for the evening at Boat Club anyway. 

Monday, February 5, 2001 
page 13 

Ethnic clubs work to promote cultural awareness 
By KATIE MALMQUIST 
Scene Writer 
Many people argue that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses lack a serious degree of diversity. And while the number of minority students may scorn small, the enthusi­asm they bring lo campus is anything but. · In a wide array of student-run ethnic clubs, these stu­dents share their culture with the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. creating opportunities for minority and non-minority students alike. Those featured here arc only a. few uf the many which work hard to promote diver­sity throughout campus. 
Flllplno American Student Organization of Notre Dame (FASO) 
Like most ethnic clubs on campus, FASO was original.ly crnatnd to provide fiilipino students with a chance to explore their culture. The group now functions mainly to sham that culture with students of every background. 
"We really just want to tell others on campus about Filipino culture and share it with them," said Adrienne de la llosa. a sophomorn member and treasurer of FASO. "We target everyone on campus for participation ... a lot of members bring their roommates who aren't Filipino to [club events] and they enjoy participating as much as the other dub members who are !Filipino]." 
Most of these events center around traditional Filipino rights of celebration like dancing. Dances like the Tinakling, in which a bamboo stick is used to pound out beats on the floor, and the Binasuan, where female dancers balance candles 
alumni al the JACC over a couple of football weekends," said de la Rosa. "That was pretty special because the events usually only foature the cheerleaders and the porn porn squad." 
Upcoming FASO events include the annual Fiesta Filipino, which will take place reb. 24 and will feature dances from all three of the main Philippine islands. The event will be followed by a traditional Filipino dinner pre­pared by FASO members. 
"We do a lot of cooking because food is very important to our culture," said de la Hosa. 
FASO members often meet to learn more about cooking Filipino cuisine, learning techniques such as the rolling of eggrolls. These events are open to and attended by stu­dents of all backgrounds. 
With all this cooking and performing, the club just wants 
~ "Pleasantville," admission free, Annenburg Auditorium, 7 p.m. 
~ Lecture: "The Living Wage in the United States," admission free, Hesburgh Center Auditorium, 7 p.m. 
~ "Autumn in New York," 155 Debartolo, "Legend of Baggar Vance," 101 Debartolo, $2 admis­sion, 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. 
~ "Guys and Dolls," 7:30 p.m., Washington Hall, tickets available at Lafortune Ticket Office 
to promote the beauty of their culture throughout South Bend. "In the end, FASO's a lot of fun. and we try to make a family for each other," said de la Rosa. 
Le Cercle Francais 

In a long standing campus tradition that was resurrect­ed in 1995, Le Cercle Francais is an organization of French-speaking students who meet to celebrate the French language and culture. With the help of professors in the Department of Romance Languages, the members of Le Cercle Francais work toward two main goals: to promote French culture 
Bongo Night, which they hope to turn into an annual event. 
"Bongo Night was a great success, but there weren't enough non-Indian students, so this year we are hoping to attract more students from different backgrounds," said senior club member Aswini Hamkumar. who served as the club's president during the 1999-2000 academic year. 
The night features a number of traditional Indian and Asian dances. The Indian music will also provide fun for anyone interested in Indian culture. 
The India Association will be partic­
ipating in the International Village, a
on campus and to give students a 
"This year we are hoping 
week-long celebration of diversity atchance to practice the language in a 
to attract more students
casual environment. Notre Dame which will be held in mid­Once a week, members of Le Cercle from different back­March. The festival features many dif­Francais meet to work toward this sec­ferent international organizations that
grounds." 
will sponsor various ethnic movin dents gather for casual discussion on 
ond goal. At "La Table Francaise," stu­screenings, book sales and exhibitions. 
anything from campus happenings to Aswinl Ramkumar The International Student Services and world news. The only stipulation is that senior member of the India Activities homepage on the Internet student<; only speak in French. 
provides more information on this
Association 
on their head and open palms, arc per­to
"We really just want to 

formed at various times throughout the increase participation in this tradition. year. Students can usually see these tell others on campus so if you are at all interested, stop by performances in the annual Asian about Filipino culture any week to experience it for yourself. 
Allure, which is organized by the Asian Other club events include French
and share it with them. " 

masses, which are held each semester, or at other special campus events like 
American A,;socialion of Notre Dame, 
and an annual film festival which is the Welcome Back Picnic. Adrienne de la Rosa 
currently running mms on campus. The third and final film of the series.
"This year we performed for the Treasurer of FASO 
"Most people that come [to "La Table Francaise"! have returned from study­ing abroad in France and want to keep up their skills," said Jill Boruff, one of the club's two co-presidents. "But don't be scared if your French isn't great-that's why we are here." 
"La Table Francaise" meets every Wednesday at 7 p.m. at Reeker's, and is always open to new students who are interested in French culture. Meetings are easygoing and provide students with an opportunity to meet professors in 
a casual and personal setting. Le Cercle Francais is currently looking 
"La Patinorre" (The Ice Hink) is show­
ing Friday at 2 p.m. in the Annenburg 
Theatre in the Snite Museum. Le Cercle Francais is also planning a trip to Chicago this semester to dine in a French restaurant and hopefully see some French art. Interested students should contact Boruff for more information. 
India Association of Notre Dame 
The India Association of Notre Dame, like most ethnic clubs, wants to share [ndian culture with all students on campus. Their focus is not just for Indians, but anyone interested in India and its culture. 
Members meet for a variety of different events, including club parties, game nights, movie nights and dances. Last year, the India Association held a festival of dances called upcoming event. 
Pakistan Association of Notre Dame 
The Pakistan Association, one of the younger clubs on campus, was created two years ago by iL'i current presi­dent, Ali Qazilbasah. 
"When I started the club," said Qazilbasah. "there was not a previous outlet for Pakistanis on campus, but then, there weren't many Pakistani students either. The club started with only two members." 
The club has since grown, and now works with a faculty advisor to promote Pakistani culture on campus with a focus on intellectual activity. Last year, the club organized panel discussions with representatives from various coun­tries including Pakistan, India, Mexico and South Africa. The original panel topic was "Issues Around the Globe," and a second discussion followed concerning the future of democracy and human rights in South Asia and India. 
Upcoming events include another panel discussion enti­tled "Rethinking Pakistan." The club is also planning on inviting various scholars to speak on campus, and is cur­rently preparing for a lecture on the origin of the game cricket and its role in Pakistani culture. 
The Pakistan Association also plans to participate in the International Village, with various activities to add to the event. One of the more popular is the teaching of I lenna, the art of body painting which is not permanent but resembles tattooing. 
Like all other ethnic clubs on campus, the Pakistan Association is not limited to Pakistani students. and encourages students of all backgrounds to get involved. Anyone interested in joining should contact Qazilbasah for more information on upcoming events. 
Students interested in joining or learning more about any ethnic clubs should contact the Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS) office for further informa­tion. 

~ "Yo!," International Film Festival (Turkey/Kurd), free admission, Montgomery Theater in Lafortune, 7 -9 p.m. and 9-11 p.m. 

~ "Igniting the Soul of Society" ­speaker (Derrick Ashong) and din­ner, $5, Lafortune Ballroom, 6:15 
p.m. 

-NAACP Formal: The Fire and Ice Ball, $2 admis­sion, Lafortune Ballroom, 9-11 :30 p.m. ~"Autumn in New York," 155 Debartolo, "Legend ot Baggar Vance," 101 Debartolo, $2 admission, 8 
p.m. and 10:30 p.m. 

~ "Guys and Dolls," 7:30 p.m., Washington Hall, tickets available at Lafortune Ticket Office 
~ Acousticafe, Lafortune Student Center, 9 -11 :30 p.m. 
~ "Autumn in New York," 155 Debartolo, $2 admission, 10:30 p.m. 
~ "Legend of Baggar Vance," 101 Debartolo, $2 admission, 10:30 p.m. 
-French Film Festival: "La Parinoire," admission free, Annenberg Auditorium, 2 p.m. 

~Concert-Maria Stablein, piano, $3-10, Annenberg Auditorium, 4 p.m. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 5, 2001 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Murphy 01eets familiar foe in Jarvis, St. John's 
By KA THLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sport< Editor 
All-American Irish forward Troy Murphy and St. John's coach Mike Jarvis have a little history between them, one that will rest at the back of Murphy's mind tonight when the Irish host the Red Storm. 
Last season, it was Jarvis who started rumors that Murphy would take off for the NBA following his sophomore season when ho predicted Murphy wouldn't be around Notre Dame for long. 
Late last summer, Murphy played for Jarvis on the U.S. Select team that took on the Olympic squad. Despite being one of the top players on the team, Murphy found himself coming off the bench for limit­ed minutes. 
Murphy's also seen more than his share of St. John's basketball. Growing up in Sparta. N.J .. not far from the Red Storm's home court, Madison Square Garden, St. John's was a marquis team. 
Yet tonight the game's about Notre Dame (14-5, 6-2 Big East) against St. John's (12-8, 6-3), not Murphy against Jarvis. 
"There's a lot more at stake than me trying to prove some­thing," said Murphy, who said reports of a personal rivalry with Jarvis were unfounded. "I just have to go out and make tliis Notre Dame versus St. John's rather than me versus Coach Jarvis." 
Since Jarvis won't be taking the court. that's a wise move for Murphy. 
Point guard Omar Cook, a likely national choice for rookie of the year, will be taking the court for the Red Storm. Cook leads the Red Storm with 15.7 points per game. The 6-foot-1, 190-pounder from Brooklyn tops the Big East -and the nation -with 8.8 assists per game. 
Nevertheless, Murphy said he'll take Irish point guard Martin Ingelsby over his St. John's counterpart any day. 
"I would take Martin over any point guard in the league," Murphy said, Kbecause he knows how to play the game." 
Cook and his cohorts bring a quick attack to the Joyce Center, one that will challenge Irish defenders. 
"All five of their players can go off the dribble," Irish guard David Graves said. "We need to stop the drive, and we can't let them penetrate us. We need to box out and keep them to one shot." 
Beyond Cook. freshman Willie Shaw and junior Anthony Glover both average better than 13 points per game. The two 6-foot-6 players shore up the post position for St. John's. 
"Anthony Glover's a war­rior," Murphy said. "I think he's the toughest player in the Big East. He's. undersized, but he's got a great heart." 
Notre Dame. for its part. is not undersized. 
Murphy stands 6-10, while forward Ryan Humphrey is 6-8 and Harold Swanagan mea­sures 6-7. Shooting guards Graves and Matt Carroll each measure at least 6-5. 
On the line in the 7 p.m. con­test is Notre Dame's goal of going undefeated at home in the Big East. 
"We've always said our home presence is important," Irish coach Mike Brey said. 
The Irish have won five straight league games, a school record. St. John's is looking to recover from a loss to Providence and make a case for an NCAA Tournament bid. 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Erikson, Grubb, Lindsey get scooped up in weekend draft 
Special to The Observer 
Three more former Notre Dame women's soccer players were drafted by teams in the first-year Women's United Soccer Association (WUSA). following Sunday's four-round sup­plemental draft held in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 

Defender Kelly Lindsey -who recently completed her senior season at Notre Dame -was selected by the Bay Area CyberRays with the first overall pick while another former Irish defender, 2000 graduate Jen Grubb, went to the Washington (D.C.) Freedom with the second overall selection. 
Forward Meotis Erikson -who just completed her senior season with the Irish-was a second-round selection in the eight-team draft, going to the Boston Breakers with the 10th overall pick. 
Ten former Notre Dame players have been allocat­ed or drafted by the WUSA, which is set to begin its first season in April. 
The supplemental draft was held primarily for selection of players who just completed their col­lege eligibility or who recently submitted their names into the draft pool. Lindsey and Erikson both 
Ertkson 
Lindsey 
Grubb 


were in Fort Lauderdale as members of the Central squad that competed in the annual Umbro-Select Senior All-Star Games. Their Notre Dame classmate. midfielder Anne Makinen. also played in those Umbro Select games as a member of an "elite" squad com­prised of players already allocated or drafted by the WUSA (which held its initial draft last December). 
Each WUSA team ultimately will trim its roster to 20 players prior to the start of play, with each team's roster currently including 24. 
Lindsey could be reunited on the CyberRays with former Irish goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene, who was allocating to the Bay Area team and spent the ;woo fall semester as a volunteer assistant coach with the Irish women's soccer team. 
Grubb is the third former Notre Dame play­er drafted by Washington, which also picked Makinen in the first round of the initial draft before drafting former Irish forward Monica Gerardo in the seventh round. 
Erikson could be reunited in Boston with former Irish defender and current U.S. national team member Kate Sobrero. who was one of three players allocated to the Breakers. 
Three other former Notre Dame players were drafted by the San Diego Spirit-midfield­er Shannon Boxx in the third round: for­ward/midfielder Jenny Streiffer-Mascaro in the fourth round and midfielder/defender Kara Brown in the 10th round. 
Erikson and Lindsey helped Notre Dame compile an 88-9-4 record from 1997-2000. with four trips to the NCAA quarterfinals, three NCAA semifinal appearances and an NCAA runner-up season in 1999. 
Lindsey was a first-team selection on the 2000 all-Great Lakes Region team, as selected by the National Soccer Coaches Association of America. A two-year Irish captain, her final season was interrupted by knee injury that forced her to miss six midseason games in 2000. She appeared in 19 of 25 games in 2000 and was a first-team all-BIG EAST selection in 2000 
Lindsey helped the 2000 Irish lead the nation with an 0.39 season goals-against average while allowing an average of six shots, three shots on goal and three corner kicks per game. A gritty leader who battled back from injuries throughout her Irish career, she appeared in 89 games. She was a key part of a 2000 Notre Dame team that trailed just twice all season, with 16 shutouts. 
Erikson -an NSCAA second-team all­region pick in 2000 -appeared in all 101 games of her career. tying the Irish record set by Boxx. She ranked second on the 2000 team with 39 points, plus four game-winning goals. 
Erikson was one of three Irish players to start all 25 games in 2000 and closed her career with points in 10 of her last 12 games. She ranks seventh on the Irish career scoring list, plus sixth in goals and seventh in assists. 

The Observer accepts classifie~s every business day_ from _8 a.m. to 3 r-m-at the Notre Dame o_flice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadlme for next-day cl~1fieds 1s 3 p.m. Al class1fieds must be P,repa1d. _ The charge is 3 cents per charaqer per day, mcludmg all spaces. The Observer reserves the nght to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Live in Lafayette Next Year  Pet Refuge, a no kill animal shelter  experience that lasts a lifetime!  Phone cards  Free airline miles and ca$h It is  
LOST AND FOUND  5 bdrm. Wash/dry $1305/mth call marty 232-1306  just 10 min from campus needs vol­unteers and fosters  The Early Childhood Development  $20 ­ 2601 min with .49 cent sur­ international and 100% FREE to join (but not for long}  
Please call 256-0886 or visit  Center, located at Saint Mary's  charge  http://www.thepayline.com  
Found: Watch at DeBartolo Hall Must identity to claim Found:  House for lease 7/01 4/5 bedrooms. 3 blocks to campus. 773-486-8822 3-5 bedroom homes close to campus  YfflW.petrefuQe.com and email us Would you like an opportunity to earn a $10,000 scholarship towards next year's tuition? Looking for an ND student to work at a summer beach estate from  College and the University of Notre Dame, is looking tor volunteers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spend­ing 2 hours a week reading chil­dren's books, buildings with blocks  or $20 ­362 min with no fees 634-4210 Sara or 634-1146 Claudia  Click to ENROLL without any delay as everyone joining after you from the whole world will be placed under you in one straight earning you tree airline miles. SIGN UP! Use my email address as  
Glasses at Debartolo Must identify to claim  232-2595 mmmrentals@aoL com  5/15/2001 -8/15/2001 in Eastern Long Island (Hamptons), New York.  and singing songs with children, please call Kari Alford at 284-4693  your referrer: thejp!JQ(0!Jp@earth­lin!Ll!fil_ Questions? Send me an  
Live-in position (room and board  (ECDC-SMC) or Debbie Hart at  email!  
Lost:  All the good houses are not gone!  provided) with beach,pool, and  631-3344 (ECDC-ND}  1998 Mitsubishi 3000GT  
..._  SMC Ring Fri. Night l/26, b/w Lafayette 28 and 720 Washington St.  We have 2, 4&5 bedroom homes 5 minutes from campus. Dave 291­2209.Macos@michiana.org  house responsibilities. Work 6 days per week. Applicant must be very responsible,  Please join our tun filled days.  27,000 miles automatic red/black  VisaRebates.com is giving away FREE Visa cards with flight miles on any airline, merchandise poin!s,  
Call 284-4378 $$ Reward  WANTED  industrious, hard working. a self• starter, impeccably well groomed, with a nice amiable personality. Room and board provided plus  TICKETS  leather interior 1 0CD/premium sound alloy wheels tinted windows  and more ­all FREE. And theyOre paying millions of dollars to those who refer new Cardholders. See more at  
NOTICES  Parents who are ND grads seek  spending money and $10,000 towards tuition.  Need tickets to ND v. Seton Hall on 2/18 Call 243-9306  excellent condition $21,000/offer  bttR·IJ.wY'fY:t. yi§arebate~.comLlodex.Q fm?ReterrallD=hoodie  
older female babysitter to care for  Please send resume and a one­ 219-315-0939  Questions? Email  
supressed dead sea scrolls  two girls ages 7 & 9, one or two  page statement on why you think  WANTED: 2 tickets for the 2/18  lbejpQ[0!JP@earthlin~ net  
+NagHarnmadi Codices Research: www.geocilies.com:80/Athens./Rho des/7031/deadsea. html  weekend evenings & occasionally weekdays or evenings in our home. Must have own car. Call Judith & leave message:  you should be hired to: Box 153, 60 E.Chestnut St., Chicago, IL 60611. Cooks and delivery drivers wanted.  men's basketball game vs. Seton Hall. Please call 4-3593.  PERSONAL  "Bed and Breakfast'' in private home tor JPW & Graduation week­ends; 3 bdrms w/private bath in  
FOR RENT  287-0260 tutor needed for pre-calculus St. Joseph High School student  Call Boracho Inc. at 258-9834. Summer jobs! Camp Tecumseh YMCA is now hiring for cabins,  FOR SALE  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND Have your parents stay in real "Irish Comfort" at more affordable prices  lovely neighborhood 10 min. from campus 234-2626  
Houses for Rent  (219)-272-0322  equestrian, aquatics and support  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  than area hotels. Gourmet break- killer mode  
1} 5-br $900/month 2) 4-br. $1000/month 3) 3-br. $600/month We'll make almost any changes to the houses.  BLACK FEMALE ROOMMATE IN CASTLEPOINT APTS. $350 -271-7195  staff. We are a christian camp local­ed near Lafayette, In. Season is 1 0 weeks. Salary $1900-$2300. Representatives will be on campus on Feb. 8. Call for an application  with orthopedic mattress set and delw<e frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082  last brunch included. Call The Wild Irish Rose Inn at 277-4303 Or visit our site: www irishrose com  sophomore Meagan Call said "pbbbbbbbbbbttttttttttttt" Cass, I am going to win the bet  
Call Bill at 675-0776  today! Ca111-800-382-2267  
('fiiai. !iil[llllte~uro~el:I ocQ) It's an  

Monday, February 5, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 15 
FIRST
CREDIT 

BOSTON
SUISSE 

DARWIN WAS WRONG ABOUT EVOLUTION IN ONE REGARD. IT ISN'T ALWAYS SLOW. 

In a world that changes by the hour, entrepreneurialism and innovation are no longer simply advantages. They're mandatories. They also happen to be the same qualities we nurture in our summer internship program. At Credit Suisse First Boston there's never been a better time to develop these skills and gain the exposure, experience and credentials to be ready for the future. If your interests are in investment banking, equity, fixed income, private client services or IT, we invite you to come and get to know us. Spend this summer at CSFB and you won't simply learn about the world of finance. You'll help redefine it. 
CSFB I EMPOWERING CHANGE:M 
OCopynght 200 I Cf.di; &,_ f'q1 Bolton Corp. All '911a r.-,-f 
-
-

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 5, 200 I 
..... 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish win 2 meets, qualify swimmers for Big East 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
After winning back-to-back meets, the Notre Dame men's swimming team is well-prepared for the intense competi­tion and strenuous schedule of the upcoming Big East Championship. 
"We've had four meets in nine days and we've won them all," said head coach Tim Welsh, "which is a real tribute to the team's ability to reenergize and respond well. 


"I hope this has us Welsh well-prepared to go into the Big East Championship," Welsh continued. "One of the reasons we try to schedule back­to-back meets on Fridays and Saturdays at the end of the season is to prepare for the three days of consecutive competi­tion at Big East." 
The team's first objective going into the weekend's meets against Cleveland State and St. Bonaventure University was to win both meets. The second goal was to post qualifying times for the Big East Championship. 
The Irish crossed oIT both objectives. 
The team won beat Cleveland State 136-102 and posted seven individual wins in events. The swimmers topped St. Bonaventure 137.5-100.5 to finish the dual meet season 7-2. 
"We were pleased we were able to fill out our entries for Big East," Welsh said, "and we set two pool records in the meet at St. Bonaventure." 
The meets provided a chance for Welsh to gauge the team's progress going into the Big East Championship. 
"We are a better team going into the Big East Championship than we were two weeks ago," said Welsh. "What's really exciting even more than the indi­vidual performances is ihe team's per­formance. We're racing faster in getting ready for the championships and doing even better in both our long and short distance events. Also important is that we've been able to win on the road which is a sign of a competitive tough­ness." 
Swimmers who made qualifying times for Big East over the weekend include sophomore John Hudson in the 200 backstroke, senior Brian Skorney in the 200 backstroke and Michael Flanagan in the 1,650 freestyle. 
The Irish diving contingent of Herb Huesman, Andy Maggio, Joe Miller and Tony Xie closed out the season undefeat­ed in the dual meet season in both the one-and three-meter events. 
"Our divers had another marvelous performance," said Welsh. "What is real­ly great is that all four divers have con­tributed at least one win, so it is not just one person carrying the divers." 
All four divers qualified for the Big East Championship, which has left Welsh optimistic for the Big East weekend. 
"I hope that the divers can continue the success they've had so far this sea­son," Welsh said, "so that they con­tribute points to our overall total at Big East." 
Pitt 
continued from page 24 
West Division. The Irish didn't blink at a Pitt squad that upset conference opponents Georgetown and Seton Hall in January, showing why Notre Dame is back in the national rankings after a short hia­tus. 
Junior David Graves, who moved out of the starting lineup in mid­January only to play his best bas­ketball of the season, scored 24 points in 31 minutes off the bench while bringing down six rebounds. 
"That sixth starter was excel­lent," Brey said. "He's accepted that role, and now he really relish­es it. He's good in that role." 
Graves and point guard Martin Ingelsby both took second-half charges, highlighting Notre Dame's new attention to defense. 
"I think we're starting to realize that we're going to score," Graves said. "We've started to realize that the way to win games is to stop people. We're starting to believe, and I think that's the key." 
The Irish defense kept the Panthers to 44 percent shooting, holding Pittsburgh guard Brandin Knight scoreless on the night. 
Top player Ricardo Greer sat out the first half for Pittsburgh with back spasms, battling through the injury in the second half to play 16 minutes and score nine points. Panther forward Donatas Zavackas spurred his team's scoring with 22 points as he shot 5-for-6 from behind the arc. 
Notre Dame's 37-23 edge on the boards, led by nine from Ryan Humphrey, didn't hurt matters. Neither did accuracy from the free throw line, as the Irish hit 20 of 25 free throws, providing a boost that helped it get past league foe Georgetown .Jan. 27. 
"These are the steps that we need to take to become a champi­onship team," Graves said. 
Notes 
. Notre Dame recruit Jemere Hendrix will not be joining the Irish basketball team next fall due to academic reasons, Brey told the South Bend Tribune last week. 
Hendrix, a 6-foot-8, 215-pounder from Covington, Ga., had signed with Notre Dame in early November along with Chris Thomas of Indianapolis and Jordan Cornette of Cincinnati. Brey may or may not ink another recruit, now that he has one scholarship to give, since many top players have already signed letters of intent. 
"We're back to a two-man class," Brey told the Tribune. "You've got to be smart. We'll look around at who is out there. There won't be a knee-jerk reaction." 

Ifyou were a Notre Dame professor, what would you say in your 
the University of Notre Dame 
,.l I 


" 

Kick-off Speaker: Professor James McKenna 
Departme~tQiAnthropology 
... ii,~ \ 
-~ 

~"Th~ S ' eping Babies, Graveyard Monkeys, & Tap-dancing 
,.,,,. J 
?"

t1-J\n pologists? On Enjoying the Ambiguity of Getting ... Where. 
February 6, 7 pm Walsh Hall Basen1ent 
SPONSORED BY YOUR STUDENT UNION, WALSH HALL, AND SORIN COLLEGE 
-
-·--­

Monday, February 5, 200I The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

Track 
continued from page 24 
Shay highlighted this week­end's Meyo Invitational by set­ting a school record in the 5,000-meter run. The senior ran a blazing 13 minutes, 52 seconds, the fastest Irish indoor 5,000 since Mike O'Connor ran 13:56 in 1990. 
"I think he's progressing exceptionally well." Piane said. "Our plan is working, because Ryan just ran the second-fastest 5,000 in the nation." 
Shay finished second in a tal­ented field at this weekend's Meyo Invitational. The senior's time automatically qualifies him for the NCAA indoor finals to be held in March. Kyle Baker, one of the elite non-collegiate run­ners in the race, edged him out. 
The talent level in the 5,000­meter run was so high that five runners ran fast enough to meet the automatic NCAA qualifying time, while an additional four posted the provisional qualify­ing time. The first five runners were separated by less than four seconds. 
TONY FLOYD/The Observer 

Piane plans to rest Shay next Ryan Shay (left) set the school record In the 5,000 meters week, then enter him in the Friday, running the race In 13 minutes, 52 seconds. 3,000 and the 5,000-meter runs 
-·. ­
.·.• 

. .-::)··. ·•.. ·. :.:,., -.,.,-_. ..·.. -~--~-.:_· . 1 ~~ ·~ 
.. ,. 
. . 
. -. -,, ... ,••. -:,;•"" '·---.-. __ • ___ ._,._ ...-. ' ·•"',.-< 
-·-< ,. • <t?~~ 
cover your butt. 

better yet, hel.p cover your 
[tuition]. 
College can mean maneuvering through a lot of different things, but tuition payments 
shouldn't be one of them. That's where Army ROTC comes in. Here, you'll develop 
skills that'll last a lifetime. Meet friends you can count on. And have a shot at 
getting a 2-or 3-year scholarship. Talk to an Army ROTC advisor today, and find out 
more about our scholarship program. We've got you covered. 
AR MY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take. 


Contact the Department of Military Science at 631-9342 
at the Big East conference meet in the 200 by running a 22 .1, on Feb. 17. fast enough for seventh place. 
Shay wasn't the only runner "The thing about sprinting is to shine at the individual-orient­you need races, you don't just ed meet. Dozens of professional go out and run fast every time, runners entered the meet. mak• you just keep racing until you ing the 14th annual Meyo hit your peak," Irish sprints Invitational one of the most tal­coach John Millar. "I was ent-filled indoor invitationals in pleased with Travis' perfor­the nation. mance. Ile gave it all he had 
Besides top individual ath­and held his own." letes, the Irish got a good look Despite Notre Dame's strong 
at Big East 
f o e s 
"Our plan is working, 
Georgetown 
because Ryan just ran
and Miami. In particular, the second-fastest 5,000 Miami looked 
in the nation. " 
very impres­sive in the sprinting Joe Plane events. Even head track coach 
without their top sprinter. 
performance, Piano feels Georgetown is the team to beat in the Big East. The Hoyas' middle distance crew seemed nearly impossible to overcome. In fact. in the 

football star Santana Moss, the Meyo Mile, an event aimed at Hurricanes still claimed six of getting a collegiate runner the top 12 spots in the 60-meter under the magical four-minute dash. barrier, Georgetown's Chris 
"Their team is basically Miltcnberg ran a 4:02. sprinters and jumpers," said "It's going to be a dogfight," Piane. "But they have a lot of Piane said. "I like our chances. them." but right now. the odds-on 
Travis Davey was one of the favorite has to be Georgetown." few Irish sprinters to crack into The one event the Irish did the dominating sprint crew and dominate was the 500-meter place highly. Davey took fifth in dash, quickly shaping up to be the 60-meter dash. finishing in one of Notre Dame's strongest 
6.92 seconds and won his heat events. Terry Wray led the 
event from start and finished in 
1:04. Nick Setta and Mike Mansour finished in third and fourth place, only a half second behind Wray. 
'Terry went out and tried to 
control the race, and I thought 
that was a real positive thing," 
Irish sprints coach John Millar 
said. "They all ran well, and I 
think that's an event where we 
go into the Big East meet and 
have a lot of depth." 
Godwin Mbagwu had a great 
weekend for the Irish. He took 
third in the long jump with a 22 
feet, 11 inch leap. and then won 
the triple jump with a 48-10 
effort. 
"He did fine this weekend." 
Irish field events coach Scott 
Winsor said. "He beat some 
really good jumpers." 
The Irish also got a strong 
performance from Josh Heck in 
the pole vault. Heck cleared a 
personal-best 16-2 1/4 and took 
fifth place. 
"I said earlier that I thought pole vaulting would be a con­cern. and that we needed some production out of that area," said Winsor. "Josh has respond­ed very well. He had a good attempt at 16-9, and we're try­ing to get him on a bigger pole." 
The 1,000-meter run was one of' the most exciting races of the weekend. Sean Zanderson led the race up until the last lap, but he faded during the final sprint and finished seventh. However, Notre Dame got a strong performance from Tom Lennon, who ran a 2:28.8, good enough for third place. 
"The guy who was the most surprising was Tom," said Piane. "He's been hurt, and his running as well as he did [Saturday] was a pleasant sur­prise." 
Meanwhile, in the 400-meter dash, freshman James Bracken continued his surprising indoor season. Bracken finished in fourth place and ran a 48.63 despite running out of a slower heat. 
"He's one of those guys that started out and falt()red last week," Millar said, "and showed this week what he's capable of. The thing I see about him is that he competes, he goes out there and gives it all he's got." 
Notre Dame will compete next Friday and Saturday at the Cannon IV Invitational in Indianapolis. 

--~-----------------------------------------, 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 5, 2001 
Picking the mind of basketball coach Mike Brey 
Reading the same sort of column every week gets old, doesn't it? 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team ran its Big East winning streak to five games on Saturday with a 75-67 win at Pittsburgh, com­
pleting a season sweep of the Panthers. 
But instead of write about the game or what the players and coaches had to say about it, I took a little inspira­


tion from Dan 
Ted Fox

Patrick's "Outtakes" column in ESPN The Magazine and sat 
Fox Sports ...

down 1-ast Thursday 
Almost

for an interview with head coach Mike Brey. 
What follows are my questions, denot­ed with a "TF" before them, slightly con­densed because I tend to ramble, and Coach Mike Brey's answers with an "MB" in front of them (it took me three hours to devise this complex nomencla­ture). 
Like any interview, I don't have room to put in everything he said. But, we still get a chance to find out just how "leg­endary" legendary coach Morgan Wooten is, and, probably more impor­tantly. who would win the one-on-one battle between the coach and a certain All-American. TF: If you could clone one player you've ever coached, who would it be? MB: Certainly it would be great to have Murphy around on a yearly basis. 1have just thoroughly enjoyed working with him. He's absolutely driving us to this thing [NCAA tournament]. I mean. he'd flush any individual thing down the toilet right now if he knew we could get in this bracket. And he's absolutely driving the group to it." TF: If Troy Murphy and Shane Battier were ever matched up in a game Duke and Notre Dame play, who would you say would draw the foul on who? MB: Tell you what, that'd be a heck of a matchup. I have a feeling, I don't know if Mike [Krzyzewski] would have Battier on him much, you know, he'd probably start [Carlos) Boozer on him. But eventu­ally Battier would have to guard him. That would be two crafty guys, as crafty as Murph is offensively, as crafty as Battier [is defensively]. 
Of course, if we're playing in the Joyce Center, Murph would get all the calls. If we're playing in Cameron, it'd be the other ... of course, if we meet, it won't be at either one ofthose places. 
That'd be just an all-out great matchup. TF: I know you were a great scorer (Brey laughs). So how about Mike Brey in his prime vs. Troy Murphy -who's going to the line there? MB: You know what, he'd 
go to the line more. I'd 
tant. He may really be reaching in a lot. have got in the I don't know if I'd get a Hall of Fame four shot off over him in my years ago. So I prime. He's a little too always apologize big. to him (laughs). TF: You've been around TF: You've Cameron Indoor a lot [as coached at a lot a coach at Duke]. And of different lev• 
Brey

now a place like the els, in high Carrier Dome [at school and col­
"Probably one of
Syracuse] that obviously lege. You've holds a lot more people, the reasons rm in played at both but which to you is a coaching is levels. Is there a tougher place to play? way that you can
because it was the
MB: Cameron's got a spe­now, weighing cial place. That's some of closest thing to your experiences, the thing we want to try continue playing. ,, say whether you 
to do here when we redo this building [the Joyce Center] to get close to that atmosphere. There's an aura about Cameron, with the students and every­thing, and tradition. I haven't seen it matched. TF: Every time you hear about [DeMatha coach Morgan Wooten] on TV, it's always prefaced with "the legendary" (Brey laughs). Does he ever get tired of people always prefacing his name with "the legendary"? MB: As down to earth as Morgan is, I think he does get tired of that. Morgan is a real teacher, coach, basic guy. That's 
Want to look good on ESPN? 
WEAR YOUR 
M®B 
SHIRT 
#23MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tonight@ 7:00 pm vs. St. John's 7irst 200 students at yate 7 7 receive a iVIOl:J t-shirt! 
Come early for the pep rally!!! 
(Doors open at 6:00 pm) 

why he's stayed in high school coaching his whole life. 
It's almost part of his name now, which is a little weird. You know, it's like: "The Legendary, Morgan Wooten." [But] he deserves it. 
He's done it, man. He's a special guy in teaching and coaching. The kind of guy you'd want your son to play for. TF: Me and my roommate want to get in to coaching, and we said ifwe won 20 games a year, it would take us 40 years to even get to 800. MB: Well, I've always said if I didn't play for him and coach with him, he would have got to 1,000 [wins] a Jot quicker. He was carrying me there for three years as a 
player and five years as an assis­
enjoy playing or coaching more? MB: Well, I wish I could've played a lot longer. 
ing and be around it. But I think as a player, when they take the ball away from you, for me it was right after col­lege, you're disappointed because it's such a part of your life. 
I've been into coaching now a long time. l really enjoy it. I enjoy the prac­tice. I enjoy the two hours, the two and half hours on the floor with the guys. That's the fun part. that's the most fun for me. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those oJThe Observer. 

in the Badin Hall chapel 
You never want to put the ball 
This is an interfaith bible study led 
away. And I think probably 
by Fr. Al O'Alonzo., c.s.c.
one of the reasons I'm in coaching is because it was the 
All students are invited.
closest thing to continue play-
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
-


Monday, February 5, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Grow guns it on homestretch to beat Olympian 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
The gun went off for the women's 400 meters, and Liz Grow found herself in an unfamiliar position. 
Second place. 
Canadian Olympian Foye Williams blastnd out of the blocks and led the tal­ented Irish junior for the first half of the race. In fact, Williams led by almost five meters wiLh only 100 meters to go, an almost insurmountable margin with such a short distance remaining. 
But Williams appeared to slow down on the final straightaway, and Grow surged past the Canadian to take first place at the 14th annual Meyo Invitational. 
"Foye took it out very fast," Grow said. "I thought if I just hung on and tried lo stay close to her. I could catch 
her in the end. It was  basically all  
adrenaline."  
Grow  shattered  her  own  school  

record in the 400 by running 53.3 sec­onds, an astonishing .75 seconds faster than her old mark set last year. Her lime ranks among the fastest times run by a collegiate athlete this season. 
"I was real excited for her," said Irish sprints coach John Millar. "I think she went into that meet with a purpose, and obviously her purpose was to win that race and qualify for NCAA. It was an outstanding performance for her." 
Grow also qualified for the 60-mcter dash final, but scratched from the final in order to prepare for her specialty, the 400. 
"We discussed lscratchingl after the first round of the 60," Millar said, "and we thought it might take some energy away from the 400. She felt pretty good and wanted to focus on the 400. Obviously, it worked." 
Because there was no team scoring at the Meyo Invitational, the focus was on individual performances. Millar was especially pleased with the efforts of Ayesha Boyd and Kymia Love. Both runners ran their best times of the season -Boyd ran a 7.64 in the 60­meter dash, and Love ran 55.98 in the 400. 
Boyd and Love teamed up with Grow and Kristen Dodd to take first place in the 4x400-meter relay, run­ning their fastest time of the season, 
3:49.88. Boyd put the Irish on record-setting pace with her 55. 9 third leg. The Irish missed the old record, set last year, by four seconds. 
Tameisha King woit the long jump for the third straight week, but the sophomore All-American sophomore false started in both the 60-meter dash and the 60-meter hurdles, dis­qualifying her from both events. 
"We talked a little bit about it, and that's one of those things you can't get mad at her for," said Millar. "I think part of this has to do with con­centration and focus. I told her yes­terday 'You're allowed one mistake,' and she had hers." 
As they have all season, the Irish dominated the pole vault competi­tion. 
Jaime Volkmer took second place with a vault of 12 feet, breaking her week-old school record. Natalie Hallet and Jennifer Van Weelden took third and fourth place. 
"They're doing a great job," Irish field events coach Scott Winsor said. "They're very consistent. The best thing a coach can ask for is consis­tency." 
In the high jump, freshman 
Jennifer Kearney's 5-3 jump was 
good enough for third place. 

Notre Dame fielded their first dis­
tance medley relay of the season, and 
the team of Megan Johnson, Amanda 
Alvarez, Leanne Brady and Jennifer 
Handley took second place with a time 
ofll:49. 

"I thought we had three good legs, but 
our 800 leg [Brady] wasn't very strong,'' 
said Irish distance coach Tim Connolly. 
Brady redeemed herself in the 1,000. With one lap to go. she was in seventh place, but she out-kicked a tight pack to finish second. 

"She actually ran real intelligently and stayed_ under control," Connolly said. "She's had trouble learning how to stay under control early, but this year, she's learning how to race." 
Connolly cautioned his runners against going out too fast and trying to stay with the top runners. For example, in the 3,000 meter run, professional runner Kris Eihle, who ran in last sum­mer's Olympic Trials, ran a blistering 
9:12. 
Notre Dame runners 
Bridget O'Brien and Hillary Burn started towards the back of the pack. but finished 
Encore Video 
seventh and eighth. 
"They weren't ready to go out 9:12 -going out that fast would 
Presentation 

"It Takes a Village to 
have been
Plant the Future'' 

suicide,''Connolly said. "They had lo run well, and I thought they ran a good race. They
The Relationship 

Between Institutions of Higher Learning and Their Surrounding Communities 
Dr. Corne/ West 

Profe~·sor ofAfro-Americ:tm Hb,tory and Philosopl,y ofReligion H11rvard Univer.'iity 
Thursday February 8 

7:00 p.m. Room 129 DeBartolo Hall 
Duration: I /,r 45 minutes (Lecture and Q&A on(v) For information, contact Clrandra Johnson, Assistant to tire Presitle11t, E:ct. 3748, orJo/,n:w,1./0/@nd.ed11 Spon.mred by t/re University Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holitlay Celebration Commilfee 
were able to run hard at the end of the race, as opposed to struggling to fin­ish." 
In the 5,000 meter run, Chrissy Kuenster ran a personal-best 17 :44, but Connolly believed she could have gone even faster. 
"Chrissy ran too fast,'' he said. "She ran a PR, but l think she probably could have gone 15 to 20 seconds faster had she gone out slower." 
The Irish also got solid performances from Handley and Johnson in the mile. 
Handley ran her best open mile of the season (4:53) to take fifth place overall. Johnson was in last place for the first two laps, but then she moved through the field to take eighth place, 
"That's the first race of Megan's life 
where it's gone out hard and stayed 
hard,'' Connolly said. "She's a kid that if 
she can stay under control early, she's 
going to finish well. She had a good 
race." 

Notre Dame's next meet is Friday and 
Saturday, when the Irish will compete 
in the Cannon IV Invitational held in 
Indianapolis. 


Social Concerns Seminar: 
Hispanic Ministry csc 
CENTER FOR

In Coachella 
SOCIAL

Valley, CA 
CONCERNS 

APilgrimage based in the Parish of Nuestra senora de Soledad 
Infonnation Session 134 Zahm Hall 9:30-10:00 PM 
Applications available at the Center for Center for Social Concerns. Deadline is February 9. 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 5, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Leahy sisters compete on same court for first time 
CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. 

The Leahy sisters stood just inches apart, each attempting to grab a rebound. 
There was 1:15 remaining in Saturday's game. Notre Dame ahead 78­58, when Boston College's Nicole Conway toed the free throw line after being fouled by Meaghan Leahy, Notre Dame's senior for­ward. So Meaghan lined up next to her sister, Maureen, a Boston College fresh­man, underneath the basket. 
Only one small problem. 
"She (Meaghan) didn't know if it was 1-and-1 or two shots," Maureen said. 
When Maureen recalled the pre-shot conversation after the game, Boston College coach Cathy Inglese, who was standing a few feet away, offered a quick response. 
"l hope you gave her the wrong answer," Inglese said. 
She probably didn't. 
This wasn't sibling rivalry. Instead, it could be classified as 
sibling revelry. 
Sure, the Irish and Eagles clashed in an important confer­ence contest. But the Leahys, Massachusetts natives, did not exactly put all their family ties aside. 
"Even when she was out there, I was like 'I want Meg to score,"' Maureen said. "You just can't help it." 
Said Meaghan: "We're each other's biggest fans." 
It's always been that way. They shot baskets in their driveway as kids, scrimmaged together when they got older at the local high school gym and both prepared this past summer for the 1 1/2 mile run that Inglese and Irish coach Muffet McGraw recom­mended in their off season condi­tioning programs. 
But before Saturday, Meaghan 
and Maureen had never played 
against (or with) each other in an 
organized game. Meaghan went 
to Suffield Academy in 
Connecticut, while Maureen 
attended Minnechaug Regional, 
the public high school in the 
Leahys hometown of Wilbraham. 
And with the age difference, they 
were always on different MU 
and recreation teams. 
Both sisters dominated the 
inferior high school competition. 
Meaghan, a fom-ycar starter at 
Suffield, is the school's all-time 
leading scorer and rebounder. 
Maureen averaged 17 points, 10 
rebounds and four blocks last 
year and Jed her team to three 
state titles. 
The older Leahy struggled 
adjusting to Notre Dame and 
after her freshman season tried 
to tell her sister that big-time col­
lege basketball is far different 
from the New England high 
school scene. 
"She would be going in to lift 
and I'd be like, 'I don't need to 
lift,"' Maureen recalled. "I was 
like, 'I want to go hang out with 
my friends.' 
"We did Mickey Mouse lifting 
(in high school). I just wanted to 
make my arms look good. I don't 
remember ever having someone 

being that much stronger than 
me. 'When I came here I was so 
weak." 
Maureen has quickly learned 
what her sister preached three 
years ago. On Saturday. 
Maureen matched up against 
Ruth Riley and struggled mighti­
ly. In less than seven minutes of 
playing time, the freshman com­
mitted five fouls, attempted zero 
shots and had no rebounds. 
Her sister did not perform 
much better. Meaghan scored 
just two points and had three 
fouls in 11 minutes. 
Regardless, the weekend 
remained a special moment for 
the entire Leahy family. 
Over 50 friends, family and rel­
atives filled Conte Forum, includ­
ing the Leahy parents, who 
received tickets from their 
youngest daughter and sat in the 
Boston College section. 
That was about the only 
favoritism they showed. William 
Leahy, the father, wore a Notre 
Dame sweatshirt and a Boston 
College hat during the game, 
while Molly Leahy, the mother, 
had a Boston College shirt on for 
the first half, then switched to a 
Notre Dame shirt in the final 20 
minutes. 
Molly received some grief for 
her choice of attire. 
"I was watching Meaghan 
warm-up and she and the other 
girls were pointing at me," Molly 
said. "I don't think they were 
very happy. I should have held 
up the Notre Dame shirt." 
Don't fret, Irish fans. Despite 
their bipartisan views on 
Saturday, the Leahys bleed gold 
r-----------,
49¢g~~~s
single-sided on 8.5' x 11•28 lb. paper. You'll be amazed by the quality. 
(()py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
On the Campus of the University of Notre Dame 
Call 631-COPY 
FREE Pick-Up & Delivery 
See store for details. Coupon required. Hurry -expires 2/14/01.
~N::kj~it:a:o~e::~er :d~o:n/ 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT INTERNSHIP 
• 
Devote 8 weeks to the service of those in need 

• 
Choose from 180 sites across the United States 

• 
Earn 3 theology credits (with possible crosslists) 

• 
Receive a $1900 tuition scholarship with the option for an additional $1000 Americorps Scholarship 

• 
Establish valuable contacts with Notre Dame Alumni 




LAST INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7th at 6:00 PM 
At the Center for Social Concerns 
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS: FEBRUARY 9, 2001 
and blue through and through. In fact, their house is decorated in Irish garb. 
"Notre Dame's a few years ahead so they definitely have the advantage," William said. "We have Notre Dame everything around here." 
They will drive to Piscataway, NJ for the Feb. 17 Rutgers game and fly out to South Bend for Senior Night on Feb. 24. From there. they plan on attending each of the Irish's NCAA con­tests. 
But the first weekend of February will forever be etched in the Leahys minds. The Boston Globe's Saturday sports section featured a front-page profile of Meaghan and Maureen and the two were also interviewed on Fox Sports Net's halftime show. Even the parents got to share in the spotlight. 
"It was kind of like being a celebrity for an hour with people talking to me," Molly said. "My friend that was sitting next to me was up in the lobby where they have the TVs and she was like 'Oh my God, the TV was on you Molly and you had your hands over your face.• From then on, we decided that the TV camera might be on us, so we better look good." 
Around 2:15 on Saturday after­noon, with the tape recorders shut off and the camera lights dimmed, the Leahy sisters head­ed back to their locker rooms. 
They stood just inches apart, laughing and enjoying their afternoon back home. 
They loved being in the compa­ny of their biggest fan. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Monday, February 5, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
"We were really on her and she made some tough shots down

Eagles 
the stretch to really kind of keep things going for them." 

continued from page 24 
Despite the lopsided final 

"Obviously with Huth inside, score, the game was close for if it's one-on-one she can score most of the first half. Notre 50 points," said Inglese. "You Dame never led by more than 
know you've got to do some five points until Riley found things with her." Kelley Siemon open under­
By sending defenders over to neath the basket with 4:22 left prevent Hiley from dominating in the opening half. inside, Boston College left Irish The game was Siemon 's first sharp-shooters Alicia Hatay. since Notre Dame's upset of Jcneka Joyce and Niclc Ivey Connecticut on Jan. 15. The 
open on the wing. senior forward missed the fol-The fearsome lowing three threesome com­games with
"/ thought [Joyce] had a

bined !'or seven an injured 3-pointers on great game -definitely hand that the night. still requires
player ofthe game 

Freshman a padded
offthe bench." 

Joycll, in partic­glove. ular, excelled -"She didn't sea­practice
tying her Muffet McGraw at son-high with 11 all Friday,
women's head coach 


point's including three from behind the arc. 
"l thought she had a great game -definitely player of the game off the bench." said McGraw. "She really had some big shots -the best she's shot in a long while." 
Joyce most impressed her coach with her ball-handling skills, committing zero turnovers in 22 minutes on the floor. 
"The thing about Jeneka is she's nol turning the ball over," McGraw said. "For the season I think she has three turnovers. She's a smart player." 
The Irish committed only nine turnovers as a team in the game, tying a school record for fewest turnovers set against DePaul on Jan. 27, 1985. 
Junior forwards Nicole 
Conway and Becky Gottstein 
led the Eagles with 16 points 
apiece. Conway impressed 
McGraw, coming through on 
seven of 13 shots from the 
lield. 
"I thought Conway had a 
great game," McGraw said. 
she was very 
sore. She's 
just so men­tally Lough and she can really play with a little bit of pain," said McGraw. "We'll kind of re­evaluate her on a daily basis. but we expect in the next week or so, she'll be back full-time." 
Notre Dame pulled away in the second half behind 14 points by Hiley and eight points from Ivey -who finished with 16 to go along with 7 assists and three steals. 
McGraw was happy with the team's offensive performance, but wants to see a more com­plete effort in the future. 
"Providence was the best defensive game we've had in a long time," said McGraw. "(Saturday! was a good offen­sive game. I think that we'd like to put that whole game together and have a game that we feel good about at both ends of the floor." 
The Irish will have a chance 
to try for that perfect game as 
9-11 Pittsburgh visits the Joyce 
Center on Wednesday night in 
another Big East match-up. 
Now That's A Great Idea! 
Main Office 19033 Douglas Road P.O. Box 7878 Notre Dame, IN 46556-7878 
219/239-6611 
,, pl 


Office Hours Monday -Thursday 
8:30 a.m. -5:00 p.m. 
Friday 
8:30 a.m. -5:30 p.m. 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You con bank on us 
to be better 
•mis Annuol "'9rc&ntoge Yield. Thisspecial offer ends April 16, 2001. There i, o minimum IRA 
deposil requiremenl of $2,000. To quolifylor !he additionol .25%,J,v, you must have a Noire Dame Federol Credit Union checking occoun1. IRA contributions for :ZOO0 moy be mode through April 16, 2001. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Knights dominate Belles 
By KATIE McVOY 
Assistant Sport• Editor 
The Calvin Knights' home­
coming game was anything 
but hospitable to the visiting 
Belles as they dropped their 
ninth consecutive game 80-45 
Saturday. Problems that 
seemed to be on their way out 
the door Wednesday against 
Kalamazoo came back to 
haunt Saint Mary's. 
"I think they really came out 
pumped up and ready to 
play." senior starting guard 
Julie Norman said. "We didn't 
come to play the first half." 
The Knights' victory marks its second straight homecom­ing victory against Saint Mary's, bringing Calvin into a ·tic for third place in the MlM and dropping the Belles to last 
place with a record of 1-9. 
Head coach Suzanne Smith 
returned Kristen Matha to the 
starting rotation for 
Saturday's game. Norman, 
Mary Campione, Katie 
Christiansen and Anne Blair 
joined her for the first min­
utes on the floor. 
Calvin dominated the court 
for all 40 minutes. The 
Knights' intense defense held 
the Belles to 13 points in the 
first half to lead at the break 
47-13. Saint Mary's shot just 
15 percent from the floor dur­
ing the first half. The Knights 
also forced 15 Saint Mary's 
turnovers in the first half 
alone. two more than the 
game total of 13 from 
Wednesday night's game. 
"We took a back seat 
approach," Norman said. 
"There were a lot of mental 
mistakes. Every aspect of our 
game fell apart." 
Calvin's offense scorched the Saint Mary's defense. shooting 67 percent from the floor during the first half to take the 34-point lead. 
The second half was less dramatic and exhibited better play by the Belles. 
During the second half, Calvin only outscored Saint Mary's by one point, 33-32. The Belles more than doubled their shooting percentage in the second half to 33 percent, but fell short of Calvin's 46 percent from the field. 
"We came in very upset with the way we played the first half," Norman said. "We put on the press right away and got them to turn over the 
Saint Mary's College presents 

Friday 
February 16, 2001 
8:00 p.m. 
Saturday 
February 17, 2001 
8:00 p.m. 
Little Theatre 
MO~D

I e_1;.m !!!-­
~-,.......­
Call the Saint Mary's box office for tlclwts: 
ball." 
The Belles forced Calvin into nearly as many turnovers as the Belles committed -23 to 26. 
Sophomore guard Christiansen led the Belles with 18 points and three rebounds. 
"{Christiansen] was getting good shots off," Norman said. "She has just really stepped up." 
Sophomore forward Kristen Matha added six points and eight rebounds. 
Sophomore guard Jennifer Plakmeycr led Calvin with 19 points. three assists and three steals. Teammates Emily Mejeur and Tara Bergsma joined the cffort with 11 points and 12 rebounds respectively. 
Saint Mary's will face off 

against MIM leader Hope on 
Wednesday at home. 


page 22 
The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 5, 2001 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish netters go two for two in weekend dual meets 

• Dasso, Varnum sail to semis in Rolex National Intercollegiate s 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 
The 13th-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team held off Illinois State and Western Michigan in dual competition Sunday even without top play­ers Michelle Dasso and Becky Varnum. 
Dasso, a senior All-American, and Varnum, split off from the team to compete in the Rolex National Intercollegiate Championships, where they reached the semifinals in dou­bles. with Dasso also advancing to the semis in singles play. 
The meet, held in Dallas, hosted some of the nation's best players in the third leg of the Intercollegiate Tennis Association grand slam. 
The third-ranked and third­seeded Dasso advanced to the semifinals of the tournament by beating Stanford's 21st­ranked Keiko Tokuda, Arkansas' 30th-ranked Chin Bee Khoo and UCLA's Sara Walker (6-1, 2-6, 6-4). 
Dasso surged all the way to the semifinals, where she was struck down by Stanford's top­seeded Laura Granville, who is currently on a 52-match win streak. 
"I feel that I played really well," said Dasso. "I served very, very big in the first and second rounds, and overall, I was very happy with my play." 
The eighth-ranked Irish duo of Dasso and Varnum had an impressive tournament in dou­bles competition as they advanced to the semifinals by beating Texas' seventh-ranked and fourth-seeded team of Vladka Ulhirova and Janet Walker 6-0, 6-4. 
After two hard-fought victo­
ries, the Irish lost a tough 
It's that time again .... 
The Graphics department needs people. 
You could be one of them. If you don't 
mind working two to three on the nights 
YOU pick, and pick up some experience 
in the mean time then you are the 
perfect candidate. It's a first come first 
serve deal so be quick. 
Please send an email to jcuellar@nd.edu 

HAPPY 21 s 
Love, Rizza, Rola, 
& George 
match to Pepperdine's top­seeded and second-ranked Paola Palencia and Ipek Senoglu 6-3, 6-2. 
"We were very happy with our play," said Dasso. "Becky and I played really well and that really helped our confi­dence. 
"We were both really excited to be in the semifinals," Dasso continued, "and were looking for a little revenge against the team from Pepperdine, who we lost to last year in the NCAAs, but it didn't happen." 
After the Ro lex Intercollegiate Championship, Dasso returned to South Bend to take on Illinois State and Western Michigan in dual matches on Sunday. She sat out the first match and cheered on her teammates as they disman­tled Illinois State 7 -0 without losing one singles match. 
The Illinois State match showcased some of the younger players' talents along with vet­erans like Kimberly Guy and Nina Vaughan, who played a higher seed with Dasso and Varnum missing from the line­up. 
"Everyone played well today," said Dasso. "Kim Guy and Nina [Vaughan) had very tough matches where they both lost the first set but showed composure and came back to win." 
The second dual match of the day against Western Michigan was much of the same for the Irish as they won 6-1 and improved their record to 2-1. The Irish Jost a doubles point, but picked up the rest from the singles matches as Dasso returned to the lineup and led off the match by beat­ing Larissa Chinwah 6-3, 6-4 in No. 1 singles. 
"It was a little tiring and I wasn't sure if I was going to play," said Dasso when asked about her physical condition. "I felt good, but my arm was pret­ty s~,re from playing all week­end. 

c:c)rne Join tJ1e Tradit~.ior.l 

off the sidelines, is excited to be back playing in dual match­es and was impressed with the play of her teammates. 
"People on our team can really step it up and they really showed that today," said Dasso. "I was very happy with the way we played." 

After watching Dasso's dedi­cated performance, the rest of the Irish picked up right where she left off and swept the sin­gles matches. 
Freshman Alicia Salas and Lindsay Green each won matches 6-0, 6-0, and Nina Vaughan beat Melanie 
Remynse 6-4, 6-2 at No. 2 sin­gles to lift the Irish to a 3-1 advantage. Guy then sealed the deal for the Irish at No. 3 sin­gles with a 6-3, 6-1 win over Frederika Girsang for a 4-1 lead. 
Senior captain Dasso, who watched the first match from 
Monday, February S, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
TOMORROW: ENc;INE~S 

Fox TROT BILL AMEND 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
-

l./ou've. octuQ\I~ reod 
\vi.\( l.\ncl Pe~a. "t1 r\ I) 11"' pres!IQ.d.
. )~ 
~~ ,-t .•. Use.di-\' o.~ e>. 
coo.'!>-te.r... So.t'le. d ,tfe.re.nc.e, .i:) 
ngn+?
' .. 

J:ASON, I ASICEO  lUST LET ME Bl.OW  NICE TR'Y. OoNKEYBAT-~  1 TOLD YOU 1  1 NEED  
YOU TO CLEAN  uP THE ALIEN SPACE  OoESN'T MAYE ALIEN  SAW HER FLIP­ To START  
YOU!l RoOM! I  CUBE FtRST. I  SPACE CUBES.  PING THROUGH 'ioUR MANUALS  HIDING THoSE  
LAST WEEK.  THINGS  
\  BETTER.  

CROSSWORD  HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
ACROSS 1 Eve's man 5 Devise, as a plot 10 Went down a firehouse pole, e.g. 14 Coke, for one  33 "Olympia" painter 34 Airport posting: Abbr. 36HO 40 Summer on the Riviera 41 Jawbreakers,  63 Bum the surface of 64 Take It easy 65 Finales DOWN 1 Pinnacle 2 Entryway  CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Barbara Hershey, Hank Aaron, Roger Staubach, Andrew Greeley, Al Kooper, Bobby Brown, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Christopher Guest Happy Birthday: You'll be well-prepared this year to take advantage of anything that comes your way. You are willing  intellectual stimulation. You can meet potential new mates. Howev­er, make sure they aren't already involved with someone else. 0000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Unite with rolleagues, and you'll be surprised how well strength innumbem works. You can also make suggestion<l that will improve work­ingccnlitioos and efficiaq. 000  
15 Met offering 16 Stereo knob 17HO 20_otGood Feeling 21 Hoo-has 22_out (declined) 23 Leo, astrologically 24 Thwart 26 Storefront cover 29 Huge headlines 32 Word in French restaurant names  e.g. -42 Swarm 43 Claims without proof 45 Adjusts, as a suit 1,7 Half of an old radio duo 48 Nabisco cookie -49 W.W. II conference site 52 Contrived 53 Old hand 56 HO 60 Toledo's lake 61 Place to wash up 62 Mentally fit  3 Actor Alan 4 Li'I Abner's Daisy_ 5 "Hooray!" 6 It has strings attached 7 Tetley offerings &Dernier_ 9 Chinese dynasty 10 Alternative to a paper clip 11 Boor 12 "Picnic" playwright 13 Monopoly card 18 Reposed 19 Choose, as a  to change, and compromise will be second nature. Your ability to adapt and move with the times will enable you to reach the suc­cess you've been striving for. You will be the power behind every project you get involved in. Be confident and patient, and suc­cess will follow. Your numbers: 8, 17, 19, 21, 28, 33 ARIES (March 2l·Aprll 19): You need to interact with rela­tives who will be able to shed some light on your past. Trips will be rewarding but expensive. Try to get along with those you live with. 0000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It won't do any good to become angry over money matters. You  LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You're in love with life. You should get out as much as possible. Lec­tures will bring you infonnation as well as open up doors to interest­ing new connections. 00000 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Oilldren will be frustrating. Don't give in to their 6nancial demands. It is best not to take risks. Be sure to get enough rest. Fatigue will lead to minor Fiealth problems. 000 SAGlTD\RJUS <Nmt 22-Dec. 21): Courses you sign up for will turn into a form of entertainment. You are likely to meet someone spe­cial through those you befriend. Don't take on too much. Focus on your goals. 0000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19):  
career  have to set a budget and make  You can accomplish a great deal  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  23 Minnelli of stage and screen 24 It may be tickled 25 Lollapalooza  PuzzlelayAdamG."911 37 Delivery person  50 Suffix with  53 Blueprint  sure that everyone in the family sticks to it. 000 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be emotional about a family problem. Deal with the  if you focus on yourJ'ob. Avoid becoming sidetracke by those eager to spread rumors about colleagues. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
26 Marathoner's woe Believes• ( 1979 hit) 29 The Beatles, Stones, etc.  of old 38 Shakespearean villain 39 Sgt. Snorkel's dog « Former's • opposite  concession 51 Princess who battles the Death Star 52 Hopi Indian locale  54 Rip apart 55 Raw metals 57 Disney division 58_Zedong 59 Take habitually  situation as quickly as possible and get back to doing the things you enjoy most. 000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have to be careful that someone you work with doesn't misinterpret your actions. Your intentions may be honorable, but your approach may be question­ You can please your partner by just being there. You will enjoy challeng­ing and competitive games. Your strong need to be first will lead you to the winner's circle. 00000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have to be aggressive if you wish to stay on top of your personal relationship.  
30 Zellweger of "Jerry Maguire" 31 Beef on the hoof  45 Passionate 48 Look that may offend  Answers to any three Clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1 ·900·420-5656 (95e per minute) .  able. Don't be too eager to let anyone know your secrets. 000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get involved in groups that offer  Don't let anyone push you around or take you for granted. You set the rules and make sure your partner sticks to them. 00  
Amendment  48 Place for a date?  Annual subscriptions are avallable for the best of Sunday crosswords from !he last 50  Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, aggressive and willing to stand up for your ristllts. You are one to take a chance and to look for alterna­ 
subject  49 Part of Y.S.L.  years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  tive routes. You aren't one to follow the crowd or get involved in  
trendy groups.  
(Need advice? Clieck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com,  
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.)  
Cl 2001 Univmal Press Syndlcale  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
------------------------------------------------------------------------~­

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ____________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
-



Split-team success 
The Notre Dame women ·s tennis team won two dual meets while Michelle Dasso and Becky Varnum competed at the Rolex National Indoor Championships in Dallas. 
PORTS 
page 22 

O
THE page 24 BSERVER Monday, February 5, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

21-0 start sets team record for 
consecutive wins 

By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. 

In the concourse at Boston College's Conte Forum sits a trophy case highlighting the See Also Eagles' athletic "Leahy sisters compete on 
accom plishm en ts 
over the last several same court 1or first time" decades. The case page20 holds a picture of 
the scoreboard at Notre Dame Stadium, displaying a final score of 41-39 after Boston College ruined Notre Dame's perfect 1993 football season. 
Next to that picture is the Sports Illustrated cover from the week following that fateful game 
in 1993. The headline reads "No. 1 Goes Down (again ... )." But not on Saturday. 
The Irish women's hoops squad set a school record with its 21st consecutive victory as the Irish shot down the Eagles to the tune of a 81-65 final. The No. 1 team in the country remains unbeaten at 21-0, including a perfect 10-0 record in the Big East. 
Senior All-American center Ruth Riley led the way for the Irish scoring a game-high 24 points while pulling down 13 rebounds. Riley also made 10 of 12 free throws. 
Riley was able to overpower the undersized 
Eagles' defenders. Boston College had only three 
players taller than 6-foot-2 to counter the 6-5 
Riley. 

"We were obviously trying to go inside as 
much as we could and take advantage of the 
mismatches that we had in there," said Irish 
head coach Muffet McGraw. "I thought she 
played well and shot well from the free-throw 
line." 

Eagles' coach Cathy Inglese realized the chal­
lenge of guarding Riley and decided to double­
team the senior center. 
sec EAGLES/page20 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Fifth straight win is special in Big East 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sporrs Editor 
On a cold night in Pittsburgh, the Panthers started out hot by hitting their first five shots while the Irish were the team on ice, trailing 21-10 early on. But Notre Dame chilled Pittsburgh's hopes of win­ning with 54 percent shoot­ing and hard-nosed defense as the Irish recorded their fifth straight win 75-67. 
"This is a big step for us," Irish coach Mike Brey said in a post-game interview with U-93 FM. "I told the guys, 'you have a chance to be special if you get this one."' 
Notre Dame (14-5, 6-2 Big East) did something special by winning back-to-back league road games for the first time ever. 
Even more distinctive was 
the fact that a team known for its high-octane perimeter shooting won while only hit­ting one 3-pointer in the game. The Irish turned their game inside to convert on the Panthers' defensive strategy of not double-team­ing All-American Troy Murphy. 
The Irish avoided frustra­tion when they fell behind early, responding to an early Panther attack by reeling off 13 straight points. 
"Over the past couple weeks, we've had a certain poise and maturity about us," said Murphy. who scored 24. "We withstood it and knew our time would come." 
Notre Dame's time is here, 
as it extended its school 
record for consecutive Big 
East wins to five and pulled 
into a tie with Syracuse for 
first place in the league's 
see PITT/page 16 

MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sporrs Writer 

Before Notre Dame's first meet against Ball State and Western Michigan, Irish head coach Joe Piane said he want­ed senior Ryan Shay to slowly become accustomed to racing again. After all, the All­American hadn't raced since he finished 10th in the 10,000-meter run at the Olympic Trials last August. 
Piane wanted to move Shay along by running him in the mile. the 3.000 and the 5,000 in successive weeks and see 
· how the star distance runner progressed. After his 5,000-meter race last Frid•ay, it's safe to say that Shay is coming along just fine. 
see TRACK/page 17 

Track and Field vs St. John's vs. Hope at Cannon IV Today, 7 p.m. Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 
Indianapolis

SPORTS • .c • (Ii 
vs. Duke
Friday, 5:30 p.m. 
.J!) Saturday, noon
ATA • 
vs. Bowling Green

vs Pittsburgh vs. Virginia Tech Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
Wednesday, 7 p.m. ~ Friday, 4 p.m. ' ~
GLANCE ­
I. 




