

PARTLY CLOUDY 
HIGH 50° LOW36° 
Enjoy fall break! 
The Observer staff wishes all students a safe and relaxing fall break. The next issue will be Tuesday, Oct. 30, 2001. 

Friday 
OCTOBER 19, 2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary~ 
VOL XXXV NO. 39 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Fear in the friendly skies 
Terrorist attacks prompt higher security, lower prices 
By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 
Until Sept. 11, Notre Dame sophomore Colleen Cummings planned to fly home for fall break on Southwest Airlines through Midway Airport in Chicago. The events of that day, however, caused her par­ents to amend their daughter's travel plans. Now, the St. Louis resident is making the six-hour trip home by car instead. 
"Her [my Mom's] main rea­son for doing it was because she knew flying would be a hassle," Cummings said. "Since I'm from St. Louis she thought it would be easier to have mv Dad come pick me up instead. ·1 think things would be more complicated with flying home so I don't really mind." 
The weeks following the events of Sept. 11 led many Americans, like Cummings, to forgo air travel, motivated par­tially by fear of terrorism and added hassles. 
Last month's events had a significant impact on the air­line industry. The New York Times reported a 33. 7 percent decrease in traffic in September for American Airlines, the world's largest carrier. Continental Airlines' traffic for last month fell 31 percent compared to last year. 
Although traffic has increased this month, airlines are still feeling the pinch. Over 

100,000 airline workers lost Five weeks after the attacks, a little bit, but not by much." ence." their jobs the week following travel is beginning to return to Seeking Safety The FAA has added the attacks and most major 
normal and Notre Dame and Despite a slow return to nor­increased security measures 
airlines continue to fly at a 

Saint Mary's students should mal activity, students will likely within_ the airport as well. 
reduced schedule. 

not expect any major changes notice changes in security at Travelers are limited to one "For effectively three weeks for flights home, according to South Bend Regional Airport carry-on bag and one personalafter the 11th we saw an over­Anthony and John Schalliol, and the Chicago airports. item including, briefcases and 
all 40 percent drop in book­

ME and South Bend Regional "Most of the short-term park­purses. Only ticketed passen­
ings," said John Anthony, pres­Airport Director. ing is closed and there are gers will be allowed into the 
ident and CEO of Anthony "I think traffic is just about police and National Guard in inner concourses, and more 
Travel, Notre Dame and Saint back to normal," Schalliol said. the driveway," Anthony said. 
Mary's official travel agency. "The airlines tell us they're off "It's a very noticeable differ-see AIRLINES/page 6 

Tailgating citations to continue 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Assistant News Editor 
Students who chanted "Let us 
Tailgate!" at last Friday's pep 
rally won't get their wish any 
time soon as enforcement of the 
University's student tailgating 
rules will continue this weekend. 
Students found in violation of 
rules governing student tailgat­
ing or Indiana State drinking 
laws will be given an internal 
University violation notice or a 
State of Indiana Uniform Traffic 
Ticket requiring them to appear 
before a judge 
at St. Joseph See Also 
County Court. 
"Grad students
"We have a 1 w a y s cited for student enforced alco­
tailgaiting"
hol issues on game days, page3 but we decid­ed we need more enforcement ... this is part of a whole new initiative to get a handle on alcohol," said Director of the Notre Dame Security/Police Rex Rakow. 
According to Jeff Shoup, Director of Residence Life and Housing, du Lac states that all students are prohibited from hosting tailgaters where alcohol is served or participating in stu­dent hosted tailgaters where alcohol is being served. Students under 21 are prohibited from possessing or consuming alcohol at any tailgater. Du Lac also pro­hibits any student from possess­ing an open container of alcohol on public areas of the campus, but Shoup said this rule is gener­ally not enforced for students who are age 21 and older on game weekends. 
"We would almost have to bring in the national guard to enforce that rule, although some 
see TAILGATE/page 6 

Trustees unresponsive to student proposal 
By JASON McFARLEY News Editor 
Student government officials presented to a seemingly unin­te rested Board of Trustees Thursday a plan that proposed construction of a University­funded commercial center and off-campus housing complex. 
Student body president Brooke Norton and more than a dozen students from her office unveiled the plan at the trustees' annual fall meeting. 

The plan was part of the Office of the President's report on off­cam pus stu­
dent life. See Also 
"It would take students "GSU presents out of resi­
healthcare 

dential neigh­
problems to

borhoods and increase their Trustees" connection to 
page4

campus," a student pre­senter said about the proposed initiative that would build school sponsored apartments and a "campus village" of shops and restaurants some­where south of the Notre Dame campus in South Bend's north­east-side neighborhood. 
The Board's student affairs committee allowed The Observer into the McKenna Hall conference room on the condition that quotes weren't attributed to attendees. 
"\Ve should have students working with Notre Dame and city officials to develop the pro­ject," the same student said. "This could serve as a bench­mark for how students and administrators can. work togetner to improve the quality of life for students and every­one in the community." 
The Board appeared unre­sponsive to the plan. 
Throughout students' 40­minute presentation, some trustees were noticeably dis­tracted or engaged in conver­sations with each other. 
In the discussion that fol­lowed the presentation, the trustees asked no questions about the building projects. 
Instead, they drilled the stu­dents with inquiries about a proposed safety forum. 
The students in turn appeared visibly annoyed and surprised by the line of ques­tioning. One student told the Board that it was straying from the primary focus of the pre­sentation. 
The recommended safety forum was, in fact, only a minor part of the student gov­ernment report. Citing 
see TRUSTEES/page 7 




page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, October 19, 2001 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Take a Walk on the Wild Side 
Okav, So it's mid-semester now. Classes are beco~ing routine. Students have started to lose the spring in their step as the scbool year moves on. Midterms arc here and gone. 
So who cares? 
We like our monotonous lives. We like living from the stress of one class to the next. from one project to the next. We like making things exciting by ragging on ourselves and by bog­ging ourselves down with terns of junk, most which has no value whatsoever. 

Why do we do this to our­selves? \,Vhy do we live in this rut and never try to jump out of it? Why must we force ourselves to be things that are not entirely ourselves? 
So, as we venture forth on this wee~-long break, we must consider some of the things we'll be doing. Where will you go? What will vou do'? \,Vil! vou relax? Will vou work? 
• \Nill you continue to treat life as the status quo and forget to see if anything new is avail­able? 
I certainly hope that you're not. 
I'll be one of those people who won't be going anywhere for break. I have a project to work on I'll be working on campus. But I won't be moping. I won't be stressing myself out. I will be as reiaxed as, if not more-so than, the peo­ple going on "relaxing" or "fulfilling" break experiences. 
I'm going to have fun. 

I plan to take a walk on the wild side. 
Eh? Did Ijust hear her right? Did she just say 
to take a walk on the wild side? What's that supposed to mean? 
Well. to walk on the wild side means to take chances. be daring. Step off edge without look­ing first. But it doesn't mean to be careless or irresponsible. 
It means doing things you wouldn't try before, taking risks like being rejected or being loved. It means looking for something you know is in your heart. and having the courage to follow it. 
Don't follow your norms. Don't get stuck up in your routine, because a routine will come back to haunt you. 
So on this mid-semester break. wherever you may be and whatever you may be doing, look for the dif'feren t, the special. the real. Don't put on masks to pretend to fit in and really be "wild." Don't just get hooked in by something that is catchy and get caught in and trapped into another routine. Keep yourself free, step outside vour box or the ominous Notre Dame Bubble, ·and look for a way to keep things fresh. You'll relax when you find it. You'll be happy when you find it. You'll have fun when you find it. But you'll never know unless you look. You have to give it a chance, you have to take a chance. It's the beginning of the real you. Be real. Be wild. 
Take a walk on the wild side, it's where the' wild things are. 
Angela Campos is a senior Anthropology major, taking chances by learning three languages at once and.finding ways to be wild. She wishes everyone a safe and fun Fall Break. You can contact Angela at campos.2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
• 
The Ohserver regards itself as a profession,1! publication ,md srrives for rhe highest sr.uuLmls of journ,ilism at all times. We do, however, recognize rh.H we will make misrakes. lfwe have made a misr.1ke, please co111.ict us ar 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 
Th<' Ohs,·rvn (L~l'~ -;9,1 .!_;10001 i5 pulib,li~d Mond.1y 1hroui:h Friddr t'Xc<'pl durini: a.1m .111d v.1,.1111u1 p,·riod,. Th,· Ohsnvt'r 1s .1 nwmber of dw Asso,-i.ur:d l'rc-ss .-\II r.:-producuon ri):lm ,m· r,·sen-c-d. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Hesburgh delivers final address  Professor heads national theology society  
Tm~sday, October 14, 1986  Friday, October 19, 1990  
Notre Dame's 800 faculty members gave two standing  Cha.irman of religious studies at Saint Mary's, Keith Egan,  
ovations to the man who served as University president  \Vas elected national president of the College Theology  
for more than 3 decades during his last annual faculty  Society. The society is comprised of theology and religion  
address. University president Father Theodore  professors from all over North America who arc interest­ 
Hesburgh, in his 35th year, held the longest tenure  ed in "having better programs to connect theology \Vith  
among active presidents of American universities.  contemporary life for their students," Egan said.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

U. South Florida student records found in recycling bins 
TAMPA, Fla. stack. "They're supposed to be tak­
Social Security numbers are the ing them out with a lock on them." gateway to a person's identity, and Embry said this is the first time one that officials say should always this has happened. be locked. "I can't give an answer because I 
Though the University of South don't know how they got here," he Florida, for unknown reasons, left said. the gate open by throwing away doc­After the interview. Embry uments with sensitive student and wheeled the 64-gallon recycling bin university employee information into into the registrar's oflice. communal area recycling bins. Senior Patricia Wrenn. whose 
Stacks of reports, some only two name, birth date and Social Security years old, filled a recycling bin this number appeared on one of the month in the Student Services reports, said it was irresponsible for Building loaded with student names, that information to be out in the birth dates and Social Security num­Tony Embry, associate registrar, open. bers. was visibly concerned when he saw "I assume when you trust someone 
Most of the reports were generated the reports. with your information, they would do by the registrar's office on behalf of "They're not supposed to be just the same," she said. "I wonder Student Health Services to track stu­thrown out," he said as he made where the rest or my transcripts den ts who had not gotten their notations and leafed through the are." 

STANFORD UNIVERSITY 

Law may block access to records 
STANFORD, Calif. 
Stanford University officials are welcoming a provi­sion to offer greater protection of students' privacy that was added to the anti-terrorism legislation. II.H. 2975, currently being finalized in Congress. While the existing Family Education Bights and Privacy Act requires a student's written permission to release school records, it also allows for exceptions to be made in case of a "health or safety emergency." Since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, federal investigators have used this loophole to obtain student records from about 200 colleges. The proposed legislation would make it much more difficult for federal investigators to gain access to student records. Only the Attorney General or his designec would be able to request stu­dent records. and they could only do so if they obtain a judge's certification of "specific and articulable facts" that warrant investigation of a particular student's records. In addition, officials must specify how they 'vvill use the requested information and use it only for investigations and prosecutions of terrorist acts. 
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH DAKOTA 
Abbot considers run at top office 
VEHMILLION. S.D. 
University of South Dakota president Jim Abbott thought his political career was dead when he came to the university. lie is considering a revival by run­ning for South Dakota Covernor in 2002. For the~ past year or so, whispers around South Dakota signaled Abbott is the top candidate for the Democratic Party nominee. for governor. Those whispers have grown louder. On Oct. 1. formnr State Hepresentative Jean Beddow sent Abbott a letter signed by 125 of the state's top Democrats urging him to reconsider run­ning for governor. "I was nattered by that number and that those individuals would go to the trouble to encourage me to run. I'm nattered by that," Abbott said. "My reaction is to think about it, and I'll make~ a decision sometime. but I h·aven 't set a tinwlirw. Tlw problems that face the state are significant, and I am interested in running." Although the terms of' his decision are still unknown, Abbott said the opportuni­ty to be a leader in the state is something lw has always wanted. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWearher'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather"i forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 19. Lines separate high lemperature zones for lhe day. 

Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 66 52 

C 2001 AccuWeather. Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
----~----------­

\I.a Anoe,ated Pres5 
Atlanta 70 50 Las Vegas 86 60 Portland 61 46 Balt,more 65 43 Memphis 75 50 Sacramento 82 51 Boston 62 48 Milwaukee 58 44 St Lou,s 68 48

r/:~:~,~;,. A•~~} c~:~~ '~~} ~ ~ ~ 
Chicago 60 44 New York 62 46 Tampa 83 69 

Showers T-storms Rain Fl~,;.,es S~o-~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 78 59 Philadelphia 64 47 Washington DC 67 48 
V,a Associated Press Graph,csNet 

-.. ... .... ........
:= "' .. ~ 
~ 
Friday, October 19, 2001 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Professor discusses good sex 
By KATIE RAND 
News Wrirer 
Patricia Beattie Jung, associ­ate professor of theology at Loyola University Chicago, spoke at Saint !vfarv's Thursdav night about her· new essay Sharing Pleasure, from the book "Good Sex: Feminist Perspectives from the World's Religions." 
The book is a collection of essavs bv feminist scholars from various religions and cultures dealing with how women are redefining sexuality. 
Jung started off the lecture by defining the basics of good sex. She stated that minimally, good sex should do no harm and ide­ally, it it should be fun. 
Casual sex, such as one-night stands, is ruled out of the "good sex" category because it is over­ly dangerous. Promiscuity, no matter how hard the plight to protect from sexually transmit­ted diseases, puts many people in danger. While Jung agrees that it L5 personal, she also says that it is not private. 
''Sex is, in a sense, every­body's business. Our sexual lifestyles cannot be completely private when an individual's habits affect others," Jung said. 
For this reason, the state priv­ileges and promotes marriage because it is beneficial to the common good. Jung stated that ideally, good sex occurs between married couples who possess the necessary virtues of truthfulness, fidelity, hospitality and promise keeping. 
''I know this is hard for you to understand as undergraduates," Jung said of the marriage dis­cussion. 

According to Jung. the main characteristic of good sex is that it should be pleasurable for both. Studies note that 32 per­centof women lack interest in sex. 26 percent do not orgasm regularly, 23 percent do not find sex pleasurable, 25 percent almost always suffer from pain, and 33 percent find sex painful at least some of the time. The conclusion from these statistics is that sexual activity is not sen­suous or pleasant for many North American women. 
"The absence of sexual delight in so many women's lives has been socially constructed and religiously sanctified." Jung stated. 
For Roman Catholics, celibacy was taught to be the morally Christian lifestyle. However, if the goal was to procreate, sex was thought to be good. 
In heterosexual sex, it appears that male pleasure is privileged. Male orgasm is nec­essary for reproduction and is a requisite for procreation. But fem ale pleasure is not necessary for conception. 
"While the prescription of sex alone does not prohibit sexual delight, neither does it demand or commend it," said Jung. The studies show that in most cases, only the male partner experi­ences pleasure. 
"It doesn't take a rocket scien­tist to realize that if only one person is pleasured, the sexual relationship will not be success­ful," Jung said. 
Shared pleasure forges a 

CHRISTINA REITANO/The Observer Associate professor of theol­ogy at Loyola University Chicago Patricia Beattie Jung spoke about good se'( on Thursday at Saint Mary's. 
strong bond between partners. Jung argues that the church has left us comfortable 'With unilat­eral pleasure even though part­nered sexual activities are sanc­tified. The church has failed to emphasize the problems with only the male experiencing pleasure. 
"Good sex ought to be ·plea• surable. When partnered, this joy ought to be shared." Jung concluded. 
Jung's essay can be found among other similar essays in the book "Good Sex: Feminist Perspectives from the World's Religions" which can be pur­chased at the Saint Mary's bookstore. 
Contact Katie Rand at Rand8903@saintmarys.edu. 
Grad students cited for student tailgaiting 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Assisrant News Editor 
Notre Dame's policies for stu­dent tailgaters do not differenti­ate between undergraduate and graduate students, and graduate students have been cited for stu• dent tailgating during the last two home games. 
Bill Haynes, a 38-year old Gulf War veteran and fifth-year Ph.D candidate in the department of Chemical Engineering, was tail­gating with a group of graduate students, their spouses and University staff members before the Pittsburgh game when he was cited for student tailgating. Haynes said the tailgate was serving omelettes, burgers and other food, in addition to alco­hol. 
Haynes, who said he has been legally drinking for half of his life, called his citation "ludi­

. crous" and said it would be extremely humorous, if it did not cause him to have to spend time dealing with the Department of Residence Life and Housing. 
''Are we adults or children? We all hold technical degrees from major universities often better than Notre Dame, but we are treated as less than people who graduated from here after we graduated [from our under­graduate schools]," said Havnes. 
Haynes said that the officials in charge of the graduate pro­gram find the citations foolish, but the way Residence Life and 
Housing treats graduate stu­
dents is a detriment to the 
University. 
"All the academic people are on our side, laughing, saying how stupid [the citations are] ... but I know graduate stu­dent alumni who refuse to give money to Notre Dame, after being cited by ResLife," said Haynes. 
The Graduate Student Union hopes to have this policy changed so graduate students are allowed to host tailgaters without the threat of receiving a citation. 
"We're talking about people who are 21, it's a little bit differ­ent than undergraduates ... [members from the GSU] met with Bill Kirk this week and I think that's a good starting point. Two students are writing a proposal and if it's possible, we want to alter du Lac," said GSU president Gabriella Burgos. 
Director of Residence Life and Housing Jeffrey Shoup said that currently policies do not differ• entiate between the two groups and having two sets of rules might be difficult. 
"My personal opinion is that it is hard to go through du Lac and say 'this rule is for graduate stu­dents, this one is not,' but the officers of the University will ultimately have to decide," said Shoup. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer .1@nd.edu. 


Lhe 1:'J"otre IJarne La1A/ School 1:'-J"atural La'IA./ Institute presents 
~he C>li11 I >isti11gu.ished Lect:1..ire Series 
11 Justice and 
-

Reasonable Care 1n 
,,

Negligence Lavv 
Ric:hc11rcl W-Wright 

. 

Prc.•49ssc»r a.• Lavv
James Gordley 
Chic::cagca-Ket--.: Ccalletgea ca-a= La:avv 
April 11 
...._4Bsclaay. Octc»b~r 30_. 200'11 
4 ------­




page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 19, 2001 
GSU presents healthcare problems to Trustees 
Dame," Deshpande said. the policies and premium costs Deshpande said of the audi­
Overall, the Board members would be necessary. ence's reaction to the presen­and University administrators The Board representatives tation. "I think they really appeared receptive to the will discuss the GSU's presen­understand the problem. We GSU's request though they tation with the rest of the are positive about the out• suggested the group make the members and then determine come." same presentation to if they will recommend sub­University and academic sidy and adoption of a new offices and emphasized that a policy to the University. Contact Andrew Thagard at more careful assessment of "It was fantastic," thagard. l@nd.edu. 

is now accepting applications for the position of 
MARl<ETING INTERN 
*15-20 hours per week 
* Position through May 2002 (or longer is student is available) * Local store marketing * Local sales building * Promotions 
-

* Flexible schedule * $8-l 0/hour * Commission * Work directly with owner Send resume and letter of interest to: Alison Patton 4504 Epinay Court Louisville, ~KY 40272 Or fax to:(502) 933-3599 
PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA is an EOE *FUN*EXPERIENCE while educating*50% pizza 

This Friday Night
10pm -lam 

$10 Show this ad to get in for half price. 
4210 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN 46628 234-4167 
' ' . 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
The Graduate Student Union (GSU} continued their cam­paign to improve the student health care insurance plan Thursday afternoon in a meet­ing with 13 members of the Board of Trustees and University administrators. 
Gabriela Burgos, GSU presi­dent, Kishori Deshpande, vice president, and Adrienne Minerick, health care commit­tee chairman presented the GSU's position on healthcare reform to t h e 

"Graduate students are on welfare, they're taking out student loans," Burgos said. "We think we should negotiate a new policy to achieve _an optimum point between costs and benefits." 
GSU's ideal plan includes access to a locally available off-campus primary care provider, prescription co-pays, affordable coverage for depen­dants and preventative care coverage, including immuniza­tions and mammograms. 
The GSU healthcare commit­tee estimated that the yearly cost of the upgraded plan would be between 
News and t h e Chronicle for Higher Education compar­ing Notre Dame's policy to other universities, testimonials from students who had received inadequate health­care and an outline of the GSU's ideal plan. 
Burgos, Deshpande and Minerick cited the current plan's shortcomings and the conflict between maintaining an affordable price and offer­ing needed benefits. They crit­icized the limited care provid­ed by the current plan, noting that the plan only covers major injuries and minor ill­ness but nothing in between. The group also felt that the plan should provide 100 per­cent of the outpatient care fees. 
The inadequacies of the cur­rent plan have forced gradu­ate students to pay many of their healthcare costs out-of­pocket, according to the group. 

University 300,000 and
'!ft was fantastic ... I
and Board 400,000 dol­
think they really
representa­lars per year. tives. The understand the problem. They asked power point the Board
We are positive about the 
presenta­members to
outcome."
tion includ­endorse ed research University obtained Kishori Deshpande subsidy. 
from US "We implore
GSU vice president 
! * * 
;
! 
* 
*· 
;
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
the University 
to consider 

subsidizing any increase in the premium [resulting from increased ben­efits]." Deshpande said. "I want you to think of health­care not just as a problem for graduate students, but as an excellent opportunity for you to recruit gr~duate students." 
Data the group presented showed that Notre Dame was in the minority of top research institutions in not subsidizing healthcare premiums. They also noted that a more com­prehensive, subsidized plan would improve graduate stu­dent quality of life and pro­ductivity. 
Burgos, Deshpande and Minerick also believe that adopting the proposal will keep Notre Dame competitive with other top graduate school programs. 
"We think that the adoption of the ideal policy and subsi­dization will attract and retain graduate students at Notre 
********************************** 
!* 1~-FRIENO" 
*

! OR/VER TUT()RING 
; MISHAWAKA, INDIANA * CALL (219) 255-0360 
* Instructor with 1O+ Years Experience
! GENE A. ECKERLEY 
* geneinc@juno.com
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 

; Helping you develop driving skllls from no driving, to passing ! * the state driving test, and being a safe comfortable driver. * * * 
* *
! SPECIAL INTEREST AND EXPERIENCE WITH: ;* •New and Challenged Drtvers Who are Apprehenshe & Nenous * * • People needing extra help wtth driving skllls for all Conditions * * • International People Leaming to Drive In America (Uldted Ellgllsll OK) * 
* * 
* REQUIREMENTS: * * An lndlana Learners Permit from The Indiana License Bureau, * * or a Drivers License from any Country * 
* * 
* FREE ORIENTATION FOR NEW RESIDENTS * * (HowlD begin and complete the processofgetting• lnclana License) * 
* * 
** Lessons are scheduled at your convenience. I pick you up ** ! at home or work, in my car, for each one hour lesson. ! 
* To Learn To Drive Call "A-FRIEND" * ! noFESSI0#At--PIAtTleAt--,ns0#AI.--PATlfllT : * ===== The First Les5on is Free with This Ad ===== * 
* * 
********************************** 

ATION 
Friday, October 19, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Russia says no meat from Florida: 
Hussia has banned meat products and live­stock shipped from Florida, citing fears about anthrax cases in the state, U.S. agri­culture officials said Thursday. The Russian agriculture ministry notified the Department of Ag1·iculture about the temporary ban \,Vednesday. 
Ex-Yugoslav general to surrender: 
A former Yugoslav army general charged with destroying much of an ancient town during the Croatian war plans to surrender to the U.N. war crimes court this week, his lawyer said Thursday. Retired Gen. Pavle Strugar, 68. and three other former Yugoslav army and naval officers are accused of murder, plunder and the destruction of nearly 70 percent of Dubrovnik. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Internet tax ban set to expire: A ban on taxes that target the Internet will expire this weekend. Congress declined to pass an extension Thursday, mired in a dispute over how state sales taxes should apply to billions of dollars in e-commerce. Analysts and law­makers say it is unlikely that state and local goverqments will rush to impose Internet taxes after the moratorium expires Sunday. But given enough time and an increasing need to raise revenue, that could change. "Starting Monday, there's an opportunity for consider­able economic mischief," said Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore. 
Simpson's attorneys ask for mistrial: 
0.J. Simpson's attorneys asked for a mistrial Thursday in his road-rage trial after jurors admitted talking among themselves about tes­timony in violation of routine instructions from the judge. Simpson allegedly yanked the eye­glasses off another motorist in an angry road encounter Dec. 4. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Police arrest drug dealers: Two men were arrested for theft after they bought din­ner with the money an undercover informant gave them to purchase marijuana. Detective Andrew Reiss said he and a confidential infor­mant spent 12 hours Tuesday waiting for two Frankfort residents to buy $500 worth of marijuana. Instead, the accused drug dealers ate dinner in Lafayette and either lost of spent all but $70 of the money, Reiss said. "They drove to Lafayette, wasted time, had dinner and then said they were robbed at gunpoint," Reiss said. 
Market Watch October 18 
Dow 

9,163.22 -69.75 
Jones 



Composite Same: 
Volume: 191 NIA 


!:::-If:: :::::::::ri:::::::::r:;111::2]2itI!J!)fil@~wz.tt:I:i
NASDAQ: 1,652.72 +6.38 ti~S.li?lt:Itfl:@tlf!:11552]aafl:t/Ii@llilllI1tI
S&P 500: 1,068.61 -8.48 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
:OMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
'IASDAQ 100 INDEX (QQQ) +2.71 +0.88 33.33 :rsco SYSTEMS (CSCO) +7.18 +l.12 16.72 1(0 COMMUNICAT-A (XOXO) +34.38 +0.44 1.72 INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.12 -0.52 24.05 5UN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW) +0.91 +0.08 8.88 

GREAT BRITAIN 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
British Prime Minister Tony Blair's grim warning that the campaign against Afghanistan now faced its "most testing time" prompt­ed intense media specula­tion on Friday that ground troops could soon be in action. 
After 12 days of U.S-led air attacks, Blair said the United States and Britain were considering taking further "targeted" action. 
He gave no details of what was in store on the military front. but Britain's top-selling daily The Sun was in no doubt: "Countdown to invasion" was its front page banner headline. Rival tabloid The Mirror agreed, saying: "It's time." 

The Times said Blair was expected to announce a more extensive commit­ment to the war against ter­rorism with an offer to President Bush of British commandos for future ground operations in Afghanistan. 
According to The Independent, Blair and Bush had given the clearest signal so far that a ground war "was not only inevitable but imminent." 
"The next few weeks will be the most testing time. But we are on course to achieve the goals which we set out," Blair told Arab and Muslim reporters invited to his Downing Street office on Thursday. 
"I don't think we have ever contemplated this being done by air power alone," Blair added. 
The Taliban were being steadily weakened while their opponents in the Northern Alliance were being given support. he said. 
The United States, with missile, reconnaissance and air refueling backup from Britain, launched its first air strikes on October 7, bombarding air defenses, strikes followed repeated demands to Afghanistan's Taliban rulers to hand over Saudi-born militant Osama bin Laden -its main sus­pect in the September 11 attacks on the United States which killed up to 5,400 people. 
airfields  and  guerrilla  
camps.  
Washington  said  the  


Military analysts expect more limited actions by special forces against the Taliban, bin Laden and his al Qaeda network rather than a mass deployment of ground trips. 
They also point out that the time for action is short, with the Muslim holy month of Ramadan due to start in about four weeks and the harsh Afghan winter also imminent. 
Afghan group opposes Powell's plan 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
Afghanistan's opposition told the United States Thursday that it vehe­mently opposes Secretary of State Colin Powell's plan to include moder­ate Taliban representatives in a future Afghan government. 
The Taliban should be tried in court -not allowed to govern, said Ravan Farhadi, Afghanistan's U.N. ambassador who represents the for­mer Afghan government. 
Farhadi stated the opposition's position in a note to Richard N. 

Haass. the State Department's direc­tor of policy planning who is Powell's coordinator for Afghanistan. 
"The Taliban have given not only shelter to (Osama) bin Laden but they facilitated his international ter­roristic acts," Farhadi told reporters after handing the note to Haass in a 
U.N. corridor...We don't agree with Mr. Powell because we think that the Taliban leaders ... need to be (on) trial in a court." 
The "position paper" Farhadi handed Haass accuses the Taliban of committing "genocide and crimes against humanity" in relation to the Afghan people, and of providing training centers and safe haven for terrorists. 
"In no way they could be consid­ered as eligible for the future politi~ cal set up of a democratic Afghanistan," the one-page state­ment concluded. 
Farhadi represents the ousted Afghan government led by Burhanuddin Rabbani, which is still recognized by the United Nations. It is part of the northern-based opposi­tion alliance fighting the Taliban, which currently controls less than 10 percent of the country. 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 19, 2001 
Airlines 
continued from page 1 
time will be devoted to inspect­ing aircraft. 
The FAA has also required the installation of cockpit door reinforcements, and United Airlines plans to have all secu­rity bars in place by Oct. 21. according to a company press release. 
These changes in airport security mean longer delays in the check-in procedure. As a result, South Bend Airport rec­ommends students arrive one and one half hours before take-off and Midway and O'Hare advise arriving two hours early. 
"The check-in counter takes longer because they're ran­domly searching bags," Anthony added. "None of us are really used to seeing some­one rifle through our bag. I had a guy tell me last week he made sure to pack his good underwear." 
Schalliol and Anthony both feel that the FAA's new policies greatly increase airport securi­ty. 
"The system is far safer than it ever has been," Schalliol said. 
In fact, many students, like freshman John Hastings, feel more secure on an aircraft after the terrorist attacks with the FAA's new regulations and increased security. Hastings' parents booked his flight home to Tulsa. Okla. after Sept. 11 and paid a lower fare than they expected. Hastings consid­ered taking the bus home after the attacks, but decided flying home was still safer and more convenient. 

"Probably the best time to fly is right now because they're taking every precaution imag­inable," Hastings said. 
Prices plunge, but not in South Bend 
Last month's events have also effected airfare. 
The New York Times report­ed that United Airlines has cut most business fares by half and has eliminated the mandatory Saturday-night stay. Other car­riers have followed suit. 
Students flying out of South Bend aren't likely, however, to see massive discounts in air­fare, according to Anthony. 
"South Bend is not a market determiner for price but we benefit from Chicago," he said. "Here we're seeing an attempt [by the airlines] at a smarter way to discount which is done on the routes where they have to, not across the board." 
As time goes on, Anthony sees airfare increasing as com­panies attempt to return to profitability. 
"Long term people will pay more," he said. "This added security will cost more. It has to get paid for somehow." 
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines has already increased the price of flights to the United States, the Middle East, and Israel by 5 percent. The carrier has also implemented a $10 round-trip security fee. 
"It's a safety surcharge," KLM spokesman Hugo Baas told Reuters. "We have taken a lot of issues to boost safety, and that incurs costs." 
American carriers: including KLM's US partner Northwest Airlines, have not announced similar plans at this time. Anthony, however, expects that will change as booking levels return to normal. He estimates price increases will begin to be implemented by January or February. 
Despite added hassles and the possibility of increased costs, Schalliol and Anthony anticipate few students will change their method of trans­portation as a result of last month's tragedy. 
"I think people are going to fly." Schalliol said. "They'll have to suck it up a little but they'll go." 
Many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who live in states including California, Florida and Texas have little choice but to fly if they want to go home over breaks. 
Julie Babonas finds herself in that category. The Notre Dame junior lives in San ·Diego and sees air travel as her only tick­et home. This weekend she is flying to Boston for break. 
"I fly home all the time and I've never been scared," Babonas said. 'Tm not going to let [the terrorist attacks] change my plans but I'm still going to be scared." 
Other students who live clos­er. like Cummings, have the option to fly or drive. Schalliol and Anthony predict that many of them will return to the skies for November break, as the events of Sept. 11 grow more distant. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at thagard. l@nd.edu. 
Tailgaiting 
continued from page I 
students think we have the national guard out there now ... that doesn't mean that if I passed you with an open container in front of your residence hall [on a non-game day]. that you wouldn't be cited," said Shoup. 
During the Pittsburgh game, 99 citations were issued while only 12 citations were issued at the West Virginia game last week­end. Administrators attribute the low number of citations last weekend to the poor weather Traffic Ticket that requires them to appear in Saint Joseph County Traffic and Misdemeanor Court. The ticket states the violator must setup a court date within five days of the ticket being issued. In addition to a penalty issued by a judge, these students will also have to have a University disciplinary confer­ence, along with students who simply received a Notre Dame Violation Notice. 
Shoup said that his office is beginning to process the viola­tions and that penalties issued will depend on the severity of the violations and the student's his­tory of past offenses. He 
conditions. said that stu­
"Other departments have 
Shoup said dents 21 or
volunteered their 
that a group of older who officials, services, recognizing that were cited including Notre for tailgating
we have a tremendous
D a m e at a non-stu­
alcohol problem. " 
Security/Police dent tailgater officers, Excise might not Police officers receive a
Rex Rakow 
and an official penalty if
Director of Notre Dame
f r o m they were
Security/Police
Residence Life not drinking 
and Housing patrol the Blue Field before a game, looking for large, out-of-control tailgaters and students shotgunning beer or using beer bongs. Unlike pre­vious years, police from outside agencies are involved in issuing citations. 
"Other departments have vol­unteered their services, recogniz­ing that we have a tremendous alcohol problem," said Rakow. 
Minors who were cited for alcohol possession or consump­tion by organizations other than the Notre Dame police and some cited by Notre Dame police were issued a State of Indiana Uniform 
abusively. 
According to a clerk at the Traffic and Misdemeanor Court, students have 30 days to set a court date as a result ofa citation. If they do not set a court date, they face having their driver's license sus­pended. The clerk said most stu­dents will have the option of a pre-trial diversion program, which allows them to pay a fine and do community service. If one year goes by and the student has no other violations, the charge is dismissed from their record. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu. 



Anew ~ame ~Ian !or foat~all weeKenas frnm t~e ~alle~e of Ms ana letters 
''Social Security Reform: The Potential and Pitfalls of Private Accounts'' 
with Teresa Ghilarducci Assistant Professor of Economics 10 a.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Coming up 

• 
Nov. 3, 11 a.m. (Tennessee) -Seamus Deane, the Donald and Marilyn Keough Professor of Irish Studies, on "Newman and Ireland: Converting the Empire" 

• 
Nov.17, 11 a.m. (Navy) -F. Clark Power, professor of psychology, on "Moral Education at the Crossroads" 


Saturday Scholar presentations take place 3 1/2 hours before kickoff in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu for more information. 

Friday, October 19, 2001 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Take the 
URBAN PLUNO~----:..,,,,,a-..... 


VVHERE? 
"'"'1-IEN? 

In nearly fifty (5 0 !) U.S. Cities 
The week of January 3-10 
If you live near a city ­
Specific 48 hour period 
YOU can take the p I unge ! 
Set by each Site. 
THIS 

IS YOUR LAST CHANCE TO SIGN-UP! ! ! ! ! ! 
COI\IIE 

TO AN INFORJ\.,:IATION SESSION! WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 5:30 PM AT THE CENTER 
FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Questions? Contact Rebecca Pettit 631-9970/Pettit.3@nd_edu at the CSC Registration Forms available at the Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2001 


Concert benefits Special Olympics 
By MIKE CONNOLLY News Writer 
A special relationship with a special person inspired a local businessman to help the Speci_al Olympics. 
"I fell in love with a hug," said Jack Lalonde,_ owner of Keistler's Deli, about his rela­tionship with 17-year-old Michael Parks. 
Lalonde was a friend of Parks, a special-needs child, before Parks died of cancer a few years ago. Lalonde's rela­tionship with Parks inspired him to work with the Special Olympics to help other people like Parks. 
Lalonde serves on the fundraising committee for the St. Joseph County Spec.ial Olympics, which is a completely volunteer run program. 
This Saturday night. Lalonde will host a fundraiser at Keistler's Deli on the corner of Route 23 and Ironwood Road next to Blockbuster Video to raise money for the approxi­mately 300 athletes in St. Joseph's County. 

The benefit will feature Irish men's basketball coach Mike Brey and his wife, Trish, as well California Juice Bar, will donate Brey will arrive sometime 
as Irish folk band Kennedy's 10 percent of all food sales to later in the evening. Lalonde Kitchen. All the money raised at the Special Olympics. Bullseye estimated Brey's arrival at 9 the event will be given to the Discount Liquor has also donat­p.m.athletes who receive almost no ed a keg to the event and all There will also be an auction money from state or national money from alcohol sales will of Irish memorabilia that Special Olympic Organizations. be given to the organization. includes tennis lessons from 
"All these athletes have to be Kennedy's Kitchen will begin Irish head coach Bob Baylisstaken care of locally," said playing at 8 p.m. There is no and assistant coach Billy Tate. Lalonde., cover for the concert, but all the 
The deli, which features sand­tips the band receives will be 
Contact Mike Connolly at

wiches, gourmet pizzas and a donated. 
connolly.28@nd.edu. 


Trustees 
continued from page 1 
increased safety concerns that non-campus students face, the students suggested that the Office of Student Affairs make a security work­shop mandatory for students planning to live off campus. 
Trustees and senior Student Affairs administrators repeat­edly questioned why a safety information session should be mandatory considering that many students move off cam­pus to escape University rules. 
"In one ear, I'm hearing that you want greater inde­pendence, and in the other, it seems like you want greater freedoms," a trustee said about the students' request for increased Residence Life services, implying that stu­dents wanted the benefits of University affiliation without being subject to the rules. 
"How do you make a securi­ty meeting mandatory?" another trustee asked. "What's the penalty [for not attending]?" 
The student report included statistical data about the growing number of students moving out of campus resi­dence halls and included rea­sons why seniors especially choose to stay on or move off campus. 
About 60 percent of seniors live off campus this year, according to the report. Some 59 percent lived off campus last year, and about 55 per­cent did in 1999. In 1996, about half of seniors lived off campus. 
On average, seniors who aren't resident assistants make up 12 percent of the on­campus undergraduate popu­1a tion, according to the report. 
The impact of the off-cam­pus moving trend is negative for on-and off-campus stu­dents, the report states. 
In dorms, younger students become hall presidents and senators. Freshman are more likely to go off campus to socialize. And there is decreased hall and school spirit. 
Away from campus, stu­dents feel disconnected and even abandoned by the University, the report indi­cates. 
Presenters said the off-cam­pus construction project would address those con­cerns. They also supported the construction or renova­tion of on-campus gathering places, including revamping the Alumni-Senior Club. 
"We can throw as many dances as we want to at Alumni-Senior Club, but stu­dents want a place to social­ize on their own terms," a student said about adding a restaurant to the campus bar. 
"I really think we need to look at having a larger venue for students on campus," the same student said. 
Contacted for comment Thursday, representatives in the Office of the Student Body President did not return phone calls. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu. 

Albany ... Albuquerque... eoston-11-Buf'f'alo... chicago...cincinn..ati... cleueland Columbus...oallas..,.oes Moines...oetroit... Grand Rapids•Honolulu Houston•~ouisuille+ I ndianapolis...Mobile...Neu., York ...oakland•Philadelphia PhoeniH...Pittsburgh.y.St. Petersburg... south Bencl.Y.San Antonio San Diego+Tacoma•Washington o.c....RND MORE! 
Friday, October 19, 2001

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A CBS employee who opens Dan Rather's mail and a postal worker in New Jersey were added Thursday to the troubling roster of Americans infected with anthrax. As many as three more people reported telltale skin lesions that may signify additional cases. 
"Our labs are working around 
confirmed cases of anthrax nationwide to six since Oct. 4 and complicated the Bush administration's effort to reassure an anxious nation it was working aggressively to combat bioterrorism and other threats. 
"Our antennae are up for all conceivable risks," said Tom Ridge, appointed the nation's first director of homeland securi­ty in the wake of Sept. 11 terror­ist attacks that killed thousands. in New York and Washington. 
Standing by Ridge's side at a news conference, Surgeon General David Satcher said stockpiles of antibiotics are suffi­cient to respond to the anthrax threat, and FBI Director Robert Mueller announced a $1 million reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the culprits behind a spate of anthrax-tainted mail. 
Even apart from the new cases of anthrax, there was ample evi­dence of inconvenience, disloca­tion and perhaps worse as the government struggled against a lethal spore so tiny it is invisible to the human eye. 
Congressional activity was largely shut down, the House officially, the Senate in session but its sprawling complex of three office buildings closed. Officials said they had received laboratory results for hundreds of people, but no additional reports of positive tests for anthrax exposure beyond the 31 disclosed on Wednesday. All were linked to a letter opened earlier in the week in the office of Majority Leader Tom Daschle, and included 23 aides to Daschle, five police officers and three aides to Sen. Russell Feingold, who occupies a Senate office building suite adjoining 

Daschle's. 

"We know we ·ve got a hot
the clock to try and get clarity," zone in the Hart Building, 
said Dr. Julie 

probably in the Dirksen 
Gerberding of 

Building. The remaining 
the Atlanta­based Centers question is, Are there hot for Disease 
zones in other areas of
Control and 

Prevention. other buildings?" The disclo­sures brought 
Dick Gephardt
the number of 

House Democratic leader 
"At this time, there is no evi­dence of contamina­tion in the ventilation system" of the building that houses his office, s a i d Daschle, D­
S.D. He said in an inter­view later with NBC, 

however, that "there has been some additional contamination found" in his office, adding, "By and large, it has been contained to the office and mailroom." 
Asked whether there were any "hot spots" in the Capitol itself, Daschle said, "We've been look­ing at all the different reports. At this point, none have been veri­fied." 
Feingold issued a statement saying that none of his three staff aides who were involved had been in Daschle's offices on Monday, leaving open the ques­tion of how they were exposed to the anthrax. 
··we know we've got a hot zone in the Hart Building, proba­bly in the Dirksen Building," House Democratic leader Dick Gephardt said. "The remaining question is, Are there hot zones in other areas of other build­ings?" 
In Vermont, officials recom­mended a 60-day course of antibiotics for 60 people aboard a Northwest Airlines flight that landed in Burlington on Monday night. Dr. Jan Carney, state health commissioner, said pre­liminary tests of a powdery sub­stance found on the plane "showed no evidence of spores, but further tests have shown growth of a bacillus or rod-
MUSIC FROM A PAINTED 
CAVE 
ANATIVE-AMERICAN MUSICAL EXPERIENCE 
FEATURING ROBERT MIRABAL 
TU ES DAY, OCT. 30TH, 7:30 PM OLAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
,~iffkf)
~NOTRE D.IIUIE, IN 
Sponsored by The Center for Women's lnterCultural Leadership 
RMATION CALL THE SAIITT MARY'S BOX OFFICE AT 
284-4616 


shaped bacteria of the same genus as the bacteria that causes anthrax." 
In a conference call with reporters. the CDC's Gerberding said, "We do have other individ­uals who are reporting skin lesions or exposure circum­stances that are under active investigation." As many as four people fall into that category, she said. One of them, the postal worker in New Jersey, was later confirmed to be infected. 
She said the four are "in large part linked" to the outbreak in New York and to another in Florida where one man died and another is hospitalized with a more serious inhalation form of the disease. 
Ridge labored to minimize the news that two more anthrax cases had been confirmed. 
"Thousands and thousands and thousands of people have been tested ... yet only five peo­
-ple have tested positive at this time," he said, adding that offi­cials were in the process of con­firming the sixth. 
CBS announced at midmorning that it had become the latest major television network to be touched by anthrax. 
Network officials said a woman who works for Rather had been diagnosed with a skin form of the disease. "She's doing 
_ fine. She feels great," said net­work news president Andrew Heyward. "Her prognosis is excellent. The woman, whose name was not released, discovered a blem­ish on her cheek earlier this month, «before anthrax was on anybody's mind," Rather told a news conference. He said initial blood and nasal swab tests came back negative, but a biopsy test came back positive. He said she had no memory of opening sus­picious-looking mail. 
Anthrax case total rises to 6 
Officials in homeland security 


Here are some of the major figures involved in the investigation of the recent anthrax attacks. 
John Ashcroft 
Attorney general 
Ashcroft leads the search for the senders of the letters 
containing anthrax. He is also-issuing warnings to anyone 
who might stage a phony bioterrorism attack. 
John Potter Postmaster general 
The Postal Service will send every American a post card advising them to beware of suspicious mail. 
Tommy Thompson Health and Human Services secretary 
Thompson is asking Congress for $1.6 billion to prepare for possible large-scale bioterrorism. 
David Satcher Surgeon general 
Working to keep the public informed and calm, Satcher is also telling doctors not to prescribe unnecessary antibiotics. 
Dr. Jeffrey Koplan 
Director, Centers for Disejlse Control and Prevention 
The CDC is examining anthrax cultures to learn their 
origin and potency and advising local officials on how 
to spot bioterrorism. 
Tom Ridge Homeland Security director 
Ridge is in charge of marshaling the government agencies that guard against terrorism and aid its victims. 
Major General John Parker 
The public face of the Ft. Detrick, Md., lab technicians who found the Capitol Hill samples to be "common variety'' anthrax. 
Kenneth Moritsugu Deputy surgeon general 
Moritsugu provided a soothing presence on Capitol Hill after a letter containing anthrax spores was sent to Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle. 
SOURCE: Associated Press AP 


International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 
INNSBRUCK 
2002-03 Academic Year 
Come and meet Professor Gemot Gurtler, Director of the Innsbruck Program 
Wednesday, October 31, 2001 119 DEBARTOLO 7:00 PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
Application Deadline: December 1

Questions? -Weber.15@nd.edu 
Friday, October 19, 2001 page 9 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Federal smallpox plan ready ' 
Cleveland and lmmrnod Roads/1801 I C/eve/ond Ro,1dl Soulh Bend. Indiana ./66371 (2/9)272-81 JO 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester 
*Within minutes ofcampus* 

• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 


At Morningstar we revolutionize investing by empowering the investor. And, Great People make it happen everyday. 
Great People Your vision and drive will lead you because what matters most to us is your willingness to learn, your ability to perform and your desire for personal and professional growth--noc your college major or occupational background. 
Great Place Our values, our culture and our dedication to our employees set us 
apart. At Morningstar, you'll enjoy competitive compensation, comprehensive 
benefits package, casual atrire and numerous other perks that make Morningstar 
a "great pIace" to work. 
Great Products lvlorningstar is the preeminent source of financial information. 
Our publications, software and Web sites give investors insightful analysis 
and groundbreaking tools to analyze their investments and build better portfolios. 
Great Program Bright, new talent keeps our ideas, products and culture fresh and innovative. That's why we're committed to finding students who will thrive in our entrepreneurial culture to fill our core positions. 
On Campus We will be visiting Notre Dame on October 17, 2001 to conduct a presentation about Morningstar and to give students the opportunity to talk to current employees about their experiences. 
Presentation l 0-17-01 
Center for Continuing Education-Room 202 Refreshments and resume collection begin at 7:00 pm Presentation to start at 7:30 pm Casual dress appropriate. All majors welcome. 
Interviewing 11-09-01 Please contact your Career Center if your ore interested in getting on our schedule. 
eoe m/f/d/v 
On~ 
M(O)Ire S1!ID]1Seit 
"A true story ofCommitment, Trust, and Love'' 
Written by Jim Connelly Forward by Lou Holtz 

Miraculously awakeningfrom a 48-day coma! One A:Jore Sunset is an extraordinary account ofa womans brush with death and her courageous fight to live. This book chronicles a 16 year journey ofrecovery and renewal. 
"An inspirational book! The true story ofthe relationship of two 
remarkable persons ... leaves the reader truly inspired." -Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh C.S.C. President Emeritus. University ofNotre Dame 
"Everyone should read this book." -Fr. Edmond Joyce, C.S.C Vice President Emeritus, University ofNotre Dame 


Available at the Notre Dame Bookstore or at www.onemoresunset.com -l-888-305-4588 · Or send check for $19.00 payable to One More Suttset: 
Shamrock Intl. Publishing 
P.O. Box 636 -Notre Dame, IN 46556 
cient supplies available to com­mence inoculation, to make the decision at that time," Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge said Thursday. · 
Yet chilling photographs in the CDC document show children with severe, sometimes fatal, vaccine side effects -illustrating why routine inoculations would be tough to renew unless small­pox ever reappears. 
"You're always hesitant to immunize people against the dis­ease unless you're fairly certain that there is going to be a risk," said Surgeon General David Satcher. 
In fact, the plan makes clear that entire cities or states won't get vaccinated unless CDC has evidence of more than 1980s, and bioterrorism experts fear some may have spread to terrorist-sponsoring countries. 
Smallpox symptoms include fever and a pock-like rash all over the body, appearing between seven and 17 days after exposure to the virus. People are contagious from the time the rash appears -particularly in that first week of illness -until the scabs fall off. 
The CDC's emergency plan would kick in when a doctor alerts state or federal health offi­cials that a patient should be tested for smallpox, a test that can be confirmed only at CDC or Fort Detrick, Md. 
If someone has smallpox, he or she would immediately be quar­
antined and CDC 
Director Jeffrey 
a few cases. "You're always hesitant Kaplan would 
Instead, the send vaccine
to immunize people 
CDC will from the govern­carefully against the disease ment's stockpile 
apportion unless you're fairly while alerting 
vaccine to the FBI and
certain that there is 
family, White House. friends, co­going to be a risk." Disease detec­workers tives would grill and other the sick person
David Satcher 
close con­and his family 
surgeon general
tacts of a about every step 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Even a single case of smallpox would be an international emer­gency, triggering vaccinations for dozens of people close to the patient in an urgent attempt to contain the highly contagious disease, says a federal plan obtained by The Associated Press. 
Detectives would immediately begin retracing the victim's every move over the preceding weeks. 

Although many experts consid­er a bioterror attack with small­pox unlikely, they have long called for better preparedness. Thus, the new plan provides step-by-step instructions for state health workers who would have to battle a disease not seen for decades. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is putting final touches on the plan, work that was accelerated after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. But officials say they consider the plan operational, and have begun sending it to state health departments so they can desig­nate a person in charge of fol­lowing the rules to make prepa­rations. 
The news comes even as some government officials raise the possibility of one day resuming routine vaccinations of Americans against smallpox, inoculations that ended in this country in 1972. 
The government has 15.4 mil­lion doses of smallpox vaccine and hopes to buy an additional 300 million. "It is the intention to determine, after we have suffi­smallpox patient, as well as health workers and oth­ers who come in contact with a patient in a hospital. 
It takes fairly close proximity to catch smallpox-you must be within about six feet of a person suffering the characteristic rash to breathe in the virus -and quickly vaccinating those who live with or work around a patient is protective. 
But, "a single case of smallpox would require an immediate and coordinated public health and medical response to contain the outbreak and prevent further infection," warns the plan's opening page. 

Smallpox hasn't occurred in the United States since 1949; the world's last naturally occurring case was in Africa in 1977. When smallpox was declared eradicat­ed in 1980, all research stocks of the virus were supposed to be contained at the CDC's Atlanta laboratory and a similar lab in Russia. But the Soviets instead produced smallpox for their bioweapons program in the 
taken for three 
weeks before becoming ill: Where did you travel? What's your route to work? Who did you have lunch with? Did you go to the movies? They'll also want addresses and phone numbers of every person who had close contact with the patient. 
CDC then will have state health officials track down all of those 

' 
people, vaccinate those who I need it, and do daily monitoring 1 of whether they get a fever -a sign they might be sick with smallpox. 
The plan instructs how to give the hard-to-handle vaccine. It is made with a live version of a virus related to smallpox, and thus can cause serious reactions in certain people, including the immune-compromised or people with the skin condition eczema. The document pictures a child covered in eczema-like lesions after contact with a recently vac­cinated sibling. The worst reac­tion is a very rare -one in 300,000 vaccinated babies -but deadly encephalitis. 


page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 19, 200 I 

THE FOLLOWING EVENTS A.RE HAPPENING AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE: 
Author Events: 
Ed Haggar, ND lifetime trustee, will be signing copies of Big Ed and the Haggar Family/Behind an Apparel Giant on Friday, Oct. 19 from 
2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
Ted Mandell, ND Professor of Film & Video Production, will be signing copies of Heart Stoppers and Hail Marys on Friday, Oct. 19 from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
Tom O'Toole, ND grad, will be signing copies of Champions ofFaith on Saturday, Oct. 20 from 9:30 a.m. to 11 :30 a.m. 
The Junior L~ague Women's Club of South Bend will be hosting a tasting of sweets from their cookbooks Nutbread And Nostalgia and Great Beginnings, Grand Finales, on Saturday, Oct. 20 from 10:00 a.m. to 1 :00 p.m. 
Joe Garner will be signing his book Echoes ofNotre Dame Football on Saturday, Oct. 20 from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 
Tom Pagna, assistant coach under Ara Parseghian, will be signing copies of Petals from a Rose on Saturday, Oct. 20 from 11 :00 a.m. to · 1:00 p.m. 
Richard Whittingham signs copies of Rites ofAutumn: The Story of · 
College Football the companion volume to the ESPN 10-part series airing this fall. The signing will take place Saturday, Oct. 20 from 
11 :00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. 
Former Head Football Coach Gerry Faust will be signing copies of 
The Golden Dream on Saturday, Oct. 20, from 11 :30 a.m. to 12:30 
p.m. 

Michael Collins, ND Grad, discusses The Keepers ofTruth, a Booker Award Nominee, 'Thursday Oct. 25 at 7:00 p.m. 
Linda Lantieri signs copies of her books, "Waging Peace in Our Schools and Schools With Spirit> Saturday, Oct. 27 from 1 :00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. 
Musical Event: The Undertones, Notre Dame acappella group, will perform on 
Saturday, Oct. 20 in the Bookstore one hour following the game. 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Varsity Shop (in the Joyce Center) 
BOOKS'IORE 
Friday 9:00 am -10:00 pm Friday 9:00 am -5:00 pm 

IN THE ECK CENTER Saturday 8:00 am -10:00 pm Saturday 8:00 am -7:00 pm Sunday 9:00 am -10:00 pm Sunday 10:00 am -2:00 pm
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

Friday, October 19, 2001 

The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
FRANCE 

4 convicted for Anthrax hoaxes 

tracked court proceedings as liament and in an eastern city. the tests completed so far be severely sentenced," he
Associated Press 

the list of hoaxes continued to Health Minister Bernard turned up evidence of anthrax. said. grow. More than 20 people Kouchner said 34 people had .. The number of hoaxes grew At least four others were
PARIS 
At least four people were were temporarily hospitalized been hospitalized as a precau­worldwide, and the first con­convicted of triggering false Thursday after. white powder tion in the Paris area alone firmed case of anthrax-tainted alarms.
convicted of causing anthrax was found in the French par-since Monday, but that none of mail outside the United States Prosecutors in the western
scares in France in fast­
. 

turned up in Kenya. New city of Rennes said Patrick cases of the skin form of the Adnot, 50, was sentenced to a disease were found in the month in jail for sending a United States. company what appeared to be 
Scientists were still analyz­powdered sugar. Adnot put his ing powder found in a package return address on the letter. delivered to the lower house A court in southwestern of the French parliament. France handed a 15-day jail Four people were hospitalized sentence to a city official who for observation after the dis­sent five letters containing covery of the package, white powder to friends. addressed simply to "National James Favre, who handles Assembly." tourism 
The four and the 
were released "/ hope [the criminal} will environ­later and went be severely sentenced. " ment for 
back to work. the city of Mail service at Saint­
Bernard Kouchner 

the assembly Georges­was not halted, France Health Minister d'Oleron, nor were any will also rooms in the have a building three-closed. month suspended sentence 
In the eastern city of Nancy, added to his record. The let­16 postal workers were hospi­ters he sent contained flour. talized and 60 other employ­Also Thursday, a court in ees examined by doctors after the alpine town of Albertville a white powder was discov­convicted a restaurant owner ered on mail baskets at a post and his wife of sending an office. The 16 people were envelope containing white later sent home. powder to the mayor of the 
Several other sporadic nearby village. Both Jean• scares sent people on brief Pierre and Nicole Deville­visits to the hospital. Larderat were fined $1,376. 
Kouchner called the hoaxes Police in Paris say the num­"criminal acts," noting that ber of false alarms has steadi­one suspect -whom he did ly risen throughout the week not identify -had sent 4 7 let­-three on Monday, 26 on ters containing a harmless Tuesday and 43 on white powder. "I hope he will Wednesday. 
'!''i:!'.iftrst~iil<Htally Managed by Real Estate Manageffi~~t:~~l!/1:iji/ili 

OBSERVER 


page 12 Friday, October 19, 200 I 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Rox Q. ~orre Dame. J'.',; 46556 024 Souri1 Dinin~ H.1I!. !\iotre Dame, l'K ,;6556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connollr 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Kerry Smith Par Peters 
l'!ason M(Lule\' VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren 8e(k SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradrer SCENE EDITOR: C. Spen(er Beggs SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Mrra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Ridurdson 
ADVERTISING MA.NAGER: Kimberly Springer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
Cor,ffROLLER: Kevin Rycin 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO..............631-7 471 
FAX.............................................................631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 
BUSINESS OFFICE ...............631-53 I3 
NEWS .. ........ , .. , .................................. 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS... ............................................,. .....631-4543 
observer .sports .1 @nd.edu 
SCENE... .................................................631-4540 observer.s.:ene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARtS.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO....................................................63 1-8767 . SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our 'X'eb sire ar http:llobsm1e1·.11d.erl11 for daily updates of..:ampus news, sports, features and opinion rnlumns, as wdl as cannons, reviews ,md breaking news from the Asso(iated Press. 
SURF TO: 

weather for up-ro-the  movies/music for  
minute fore.:asrs  weekly student reviev,s  
advertise for poli(ie~  online &atures for spe­ 
and rares of prinr ads  ,i,J c.unpus coverage  

archives to se.ud1 for  about The Observer  
,mides published aftn  ro meet the editors and  
August 1 999  Staff  
POLICIES  

The Ob~ervcr is the independent. daily newspaper published in print and online lw the srudents of th1: University of Notre Dame du L11.: md S,1inr l\,1ary·s College. Editorial rnnrent, induding ,1dverrisements, is not governed hr poli(ies of the administration ofeither insrimcion. The Observer reserves che right to refuse advertisements hased on (Ontent. 
The news is reported as a..:ntratdy and objeaively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of rhe majoritv of th, Editor in Chid~ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing EJiror :uid Jcparrmenr editors. Comment.iries, letters .md (olumns present the views of the authors and not necessarih· those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint spa.:e is available to all readers. The free expression of.1ll opinions through lerrcrs is cn(ouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must indude wnrJct mformarion. 
Questiom 1·eg,1rding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor i11 O,ie/'A1ike Con11olly. 
ND tailgating policy doesn't make sense 
At the Pittsburgh game last weekend. The University was just crew for so bravely upholding such a logical University rule. following its own rules by enforcing its ban on student-spon­Surely legal drinking is such a problem at this University that it's 
sored tailgates. 
Graduate student Bill Haynes, a 38-year old Gulf \Var veteran and Ph.D candidate. was enjoying burgers. omlettcs and some alcoholic drinks with his spouse and fello\\' grad students. Since he was dearly not underage, he didn't really think he was doing anything wrong. 
Hes Life thought differently. They issued 

Haynes a citation for attending a student tailgate. Bill Kirk and Co. have also issued citations to numerous 21-vear old students attending student tailgates. · 
Through a policy that originally ajmed to curb underage drinking, apparently Res Life. NDSP and the Indiana Excise Police are attempting to curb drinking completely -even for people like Haynes, who've been drinking legally for half their lives. 
The Observer v1;ould like to thank Bill Kirk and the Res Life 
become necessary tu stop even those who am indisputably 
O
Jhe l~~torial 
adults. 

So for students 21 and older -including Haynes -we'd like to offer you some tailgat­ing tips to remain ticket-free this weekend. Since gaining admission to Blw~ Field has become harder than squeezing your way into the 'Backer on a football Friday. try making a fake overage ID to prove you're actually a 
graduate. Or maybe you should just drink yourself into oblivion in your room -Res Life will never know you're them. 
Or, grad students like Haynes should just attend tailgates sponsored by the 22-year olds in the class of 2001 -after all. they're legal. 
And at all costs. stay away from Kirk's ticket brigade. He'II stop at nothing, even ticketing his own peers. That's right -th<' director of Hes Life is :18 years old -the same age as tho delin­quent Haynes. 

U2 uses concert as opportunity to send a message 
For those who did not attend the con­cert, at the end of last \'Vednesday's per­formance, Bono. the lead singer of U2, commented on the events of the past few weeks. He commended the policemen and firefighters of New York for their heroism. An Irishman, he expressed solidarity with the people of the United States. Then Bono put forth his belief that abject poverty is tlw root or terrorism. I le uq{ed country leaders and avPragP citizens to work to end poverty. He acknowledged the ACE program. Thf' concert dosed with the image of mf'mbers of thf' '.'\YPD and NYFD. walk­ing across the stagP. to U2's song, "Walk 
On." . Bono. a musician and a rock star. and the other thrPe members of U2 made a political statmnent. They used the stage not only to entertain. but also to send a specific message to their audiencP, in this cas<~. mostly students of this UnivPrsity. ThP contrast bPtwePn U2's use of their platform and that of' most artists of the dominating pop rnlture struck me. Over the past fow years, popular music has beconw overv;lwlmingly apolitical. The songs of the Backstreet Boys. Britney Spears and N*SYNC offer no particular message. They sing of perfect relation­ships. ThPir lyrics express the pain of lost love. They sing of' themst•lves. In many ways, thn popularity of the boy and girl bands has depcmded upon thn ambiguity and genf'ral scope of their mcssagf'. Their carnfree lyrics agreed 


with the carefree atmosphere of a boom­ing economy in a country at peace. In a nation without worry, Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera posed no danger of compelling their listeners to acknowledge an underlying cause for concern. 
Of course the events of Sept. 11 have forced Americans to confront the realitv of hatred for our country in the world · and the threats to our safety lurking in the background. In this changed atmos­phere marked by terror and inse­curity. I wonder if the apoliti­cal pPrformers of' the past fow years will maintain their appeal to the American public: 
In the Vietnam Era. the voices of musicians func­tioned as a pri­mary agent of political dissent. John Lrnnon and Bob Dylan. cultural idols. spoke loudly against thfl war. The message of Lennon's song "Imagine" rings still in the cars of todav's universitv stu­dent.~. At Woodstock, youth united in the name peace and music. Jimi Hendrix defiantly played the Star-Spangled Banner in protest. 
If as appears likely. the war against terrorism continues for vears and involves ground troops t1ghting in foreign countries, a spt~cifically political tone ,\·ill likely return to American popular music. Benefit concerts staged in the past month already demonstrate a shift in the cul­ture. The dissenting voices in the musk culture -and throughout the entire country -during the sixties and seven­ties have received some blame for the failure of the United States in Vietnam. Yet in reality, music functions have been organized to strengthen and to unity our countrv. It exists as one of the most effec­tive and peaceful means by which people can express lheir opinions and emotions. Along with other forms of art, it helps those confused by conflicting feelings 
about war, peace and justic<' sort out 
their thoughts. During the encorn. Bono • mentioned that a musician 
like himself. a rock star and a public persona stood lik(~ (W<'ryone 
,,Js,\ holpl<'ss in thP 
wak<> of trag<>dy. Yet I bcliew that those with the ability to combitw both thP 
poetry of words and the nwlody of' musi­cal notPs hm·c iL uniquP opportunity 
to help America ...._=::::;:;;;' heal. to PXprPss sup~ port. and to <'ngagP in protest. I hop<' that over tlw next year music that truly speaks to thP current crisis emanat<~s from thP radio towers. Now this country 1wPds something more. something dPPp­er than the BackstrPet Boys. 
Joanna Afikulski is a junior h'r1glish and German major. She can {w reached at mikulski. l@nd.edu. lier column appears e1•ery other Friday. 
The l'iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
l\ews 
Scott BrodfuPhrPr Sh!~ila Egts Erin LaHuffa 
Sports 
KatiP 11 uglws 
\'ipwpoint 
Lori I,P\Vitlski 

Scene 
Amanda GrPco 
Graphics 
Andy DPvoto 
Production 
.\ndrPv,· Soukup 
Lab TPfh 
_-\n v,,l·•(.t_ ( ·tn1pj ,L·
r-,-.1( 1,"': 
POLL QUESTION 

Are you vvorried about the prospect of biochemical warfare in light of the recent anthrax cases? Please e-mail observer.vie\vpoint.1@nd.edu bY Friday to renort vour ans\ver. 
"' ._ L .._ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"How glorious it is -and also hou, painful -to be an exception." 
Alfred De Musset French writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, October 19, 200 I page 13 
Knowing CPR could save a life 
Picture yourself' walking to class one day. Sudchrnly you see soirrnmrn collapse in front of you. You can tell that they aren't breathing and that they might be having a lrnart attack. Do you know what to do from hem? If the answer is yes, then good for you. If the answPr is no, then why not? 
Cardiopulmonary Hesuscitation 
Stephen Carroll 
(CPH) is a skill that 1wervone can 
h~arn and it can h1~lp to save a 

person's life. It increases a per­son's chances of surviving car­A Medical diac arrest by supplying blood Perspective 
and oxygen to the victim's brain 
and heart. Without sacrificing 

months or years on medical training, it is the most concrete thing you can do to save a person's life. 
Most people have seen CPH performed on TV shows such as Baywatch, EH or Chicago Hope. Everyone has probably seen the heroes on the show perform a few minutes of chest compressions and a couple of breaths and miraculously revive the victim in cardiac arrest. They also seem to revive about 75 percent of victims in cardiac arrest. Unfortunately things don't work that way in the real world. 
In reality, the only way to revive someone in car­diac arrest is to use a defibrillator to deliver an elec­tric shock to the heart. I'm sure you've seen the actors on ER yell "CLEAR!" and use the "paddles" to shock a patient. This actually does not "jump start" the heart; it actually stops the heart for a few sec­onds in order for it to regain the correct rhythm. This is the only effective way to get a patient's heart rhythm back to normal. 
That being said, why do CPH'? The reason is that it "buys time" for the victim until a defibrillator can arrive at the victim. It helps keep their brain and heart muscle alive until the defibrillator arrives. Today automatic external defibrillators (AEDs) are 
handhold units which can be placed almost every­
where and can be used with minimal training. They 
are basically idiot-proof and use a computer to ana­
lyze the victim's heart rhythm. They give all the nec­
essary instructions to the operator with a computer­
ized voice. They have been successfully placed in 
police cars, fire trucks, airports. large malls and 
even airplanes. 

The chances of surviving cardiac arrest vary widely and depends mostly on where it happens. Survival rates can range from two percent to 30 percent. Some communities have seen their cardiac arrest survival rates jump from two percent to 30 percent after implementing AED programs. \Vith the effective placement of AEDs, the safest place to have a heart attack today is probably a Las Vegas casino. Most casinos have AEDs placed no more than two minutes from any location in the casino. This has resulted in • cardiac arrest survival rates as high as 74 percent when the victim is shocked within three minutes of collapse. 
When it comes down to it, you might be hesitant to actually perform mouth to mouth on someone. More than a few people have told me that it is a reason why they don't take CPR classes. Since I'm also not interested in sucking face with a total stranger to give mouth to mouth, I have two suggestions. The first is to buy a keychain CPR shield. It's a pouch that attaches onto your keychain that contains a plastic shield with a one-way valve to place in the victim's mouth. You blow into the one-way valve, which pre­vents any of the victim's breath from corning up. 
Although there has never been a documented case of someone gehing a communicable disease from mouth to mouth resuscitation. using a mask does a lot to ease your mind. It also prevents the victim from spitting up into your face or mouth. They cost about five dollars and can be carried around any-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR·.· 
Letter surprises and inspires 
In responsB to yesterday's let­ter to the editor regarding the administration's non-recognition of OutreachND, I am surprised, but also inspired. Mr. Klukowski explains that homosexual orien­tation and activity are "gravely sinful," and recognizing groups such as Outreach would do a dis­service to the Notre Dame com­munity. 
WhilP I rnspect your opinion, Ken. and I agreP that dialogue on this topic is i~ssential. I would like to offer the p,,rspPctivP of otlwr students. Sonw would argtw that in this important dis­cussion of' human "sins," acts of crw•lty. intol<>rarwr-and hatn•d rank PVPn higlwr than homosPx­ual ori('ntation. \\lwtlwr it is :·,!mmHting rriPws in J1P namP i;f rPligio11 or di:.;niminating again,t pr::rlc bPr,tllS(' llwy arn Jiffnr'P!lt. human !'laws and -:h1Ttr,q•,:'.1;c> :-Ur · · manif'ns1 
h,·1nsi•i\ w. in m,1(·•,' \\:\"; -.;_ 

i 'r·~' : x ..:tl::! ar,:.ll' tli;tt st1p­1·,_,,-; ,·i't\•·,,ri.::: a1 '·. ,1r,• L,:!llH' 'll"!' . : , '•:r :"l'.d:ding :· dPnts w ,.. ,.,·,,. ··:·r ;,,,,: ,-· 1 ,z· univ,"·· 
'·:::~\ l'J~ 

~:r1·t-:; t:. ;:,~::-: 1n;1k~-;t1Psf• 
:·,ilk!?,'.•' ,r:. ':•lcr,· ·,w·:·l's:,!'-J!. -:,\'hr-'.~-( t'·~· .. ; : ;,. :. :\.• \ 1>: P:/ ~: n~!~t· C=r 

! •• 


~ 1:iiu __·f·· ,, -~,~ i·t ro"~ ·. ~'}t, -1~~vt­
.~. ·1 • :. j" _-.. t '., 1pp_1'1'.~~:,•:---:· ,. ! hnu~.::.n~-.~~ --.i :1. ~. ·rhi~; < : , 

•nak,•,: -rn ;;c,K .h':i1 i'w ni>· 
:fl}--! ;,) ! · : ~;' ~ -. ; -, r ~ d : iH. ", l t .'• , : ! }"! 0 
I. :ik;• :om:.:, •i"t1•,: :;,ini-. ,,;)c~ii 
the "random violence, militancy and rage" that often shape soci­ety. However these expressions of intolerance take on many forms, and much too often, homosexuals and minorities are the victims and not the perpetra­tors of this intolerance. I also agree that it is vital to take posi­tions and express oneself unequivocally and honestly, as you have done so eloquently in writing your letter. It is for this n~ason that I must support homosexual students' rights and the m~ecl to express themsclvt'S in safe and legitimate forum. Tlrnir spiritual well'arc, as you suggested, is V<'ry much at stake. .\s far as ambiguity. I f'urthnr agree that :'JD. a Univnrsity that I proudly call hnnw, would do a rPmarkabln s,•1-vicP to ('\'ervonP by dcaring up an) conf'usi<Jn about its posilhn rngarding Outn•a('h.\D. By ,,}Tidally rProg­nizing Ou!n•a:·hl\iD as a · : niw•r~,.ity i!i'I.Hl ·;izath1~, ·hp ad m; ni'"'~ratii-n \Y<Ii:I ,,i k11 an importar '.,nd i';,ur .. ;•."ctb .,:,Pp ":iw=Jrds pl.:~1,·;,,i!' '..Pi<L d' h,:pi' :u-J r: ic··,-m; 1d· (!n1·'.; :,1 H n,rr> 
'!Uni~.' [.kfitit':' b\ '',· ·;\ 1 :rnd 
. •!In~nl•m,,n'  . · :<! ;:.'-";  1 '•  cir U1:·  
'.'.  , :d.  
eifert  

where. 

Still not convinced? You could just give chest com­
pressions. A study in the New England Journal of 

Medicine studied cardiac arrest victims who received 
only chest compressions as compared to chest com­
pressions with mouth to mouth. Tho study showed 

that the survival rates were nearly identical between 
the two groups. 
The theory is that the victim's blood is relatively 
well oxygenated in the first few minutes following a 
cardiac arrest. In this case, chest compressions are 
better than nothing. It buys the victim time until 
someone arrives who is fully trained in CPR. One 
study is not enough for the major medical associa­
tions to change their guidelines but I think it is a 
valid option if you are not willing to do mouth to 
mouth resuscitation. 

Now all you need is to get certified in CPH. You can't learn CPR just by watching TV shows so get out there and get certified! You can contact the South Bend chapter of the Red Cross at (219) 234-0191. They will be able to tell you where and when the next CPR class is being held. I hope you never need to give someone CPR but you may end up saving someone's life. That person'might be someone you know or a member of your family. I think that is rea­son enough to learn CPR. 
Steve Carroll is a sophomore biology major. He is certified as an EMT and a firefighter in Pennsylvania and Indiana. lie can be reached at carroll.52@nd.edu This article is dedicated to FDNY Rescue company 1, who lost a whole shift (11 fire­fighters) in the cowardly and senseless attacks of Sept. 11th. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
A response to "random ignorance" 
First and foremost, I would like to illuminate the point that this letter is not about the issue of recognition for OutreachND -by now that topic is moot, and I believe that the group should not accept any recognition or money from the University unless it is accompanied with a big, fat apology. Since Mr. Klukowski feels that he is enti­tled to "throw stones· (gra­tuitous Bible reference) and pass judgment upon the lifestyle of others. I \¾Ould like to toss a tiny pebble his way. Although I would be doing a great disservice to myself and the gay/lt•sbian/biscxual \ community by n~cog-\,i nizing your arroganc<~. I ~ simply must -~ 
fn his lf'tll·r. Kluko¼ski '~ likfms h,,mosPxual activitv to ·"'--­
. d . I " d . ~ 
ran om v10 <'nt·r· an uses an analogy rPfPrdng ·;; a •'.ampus group ";:;,s-. sessNl by llhffi·Prous r~1gn." As I rPad tht·SP 1H•r"UficaLions ·,utlnud t,; a ,able A ;ny ~:a:.hniic lwkt',;s,"·:.al ''ri, nd, ·;• '.•,orth Dining 1::t.I. \H' \,\i r, all :,1"-',i'S;·0 d bv :;l,i i'l" disrrust. '\J1!\'\'. J
l -. ,, 
11:t\'i' \!'•'"'' .,. ·,::. ,, ·,. ~c·i1c1fsinh'\ ninth grad;', and al; :,u;J1 :; ·._;a~... ·1rw:,im:', d;•'kul: to stav ._:;,ak, .hrc.1gh :"::·:,i:·.,r:y ,-'.ass. ~tw "'"' 'tdr:g Jrn' \\; ",,.·e-,·r i.:::-·,11:.J: · ·•'tid in ;1_1~· 1r,:·1d :tbou·. 
•.ii:=·1 -an :-: 1 :\,'. ". ;-,d arcpp·nn,,,·, ::s
-, 
~ . ~ · ,-.. · · ;'._··. ~-,rr-tlCh --q(-~·-!­

._.,' ask, ,,,t:at '',U.i>'. '1, 0 :c :. . · 0,;r,try. :,"s. ··, bi.w ,i1111.aJ,c,, v,,s. ::,T::.;·:,:atic·:. ~-•'"". ·!l:'.lt T;11TP :·nupJr,il ·,vi: i1 ih,· aui;;;dl~, 1:, juctg.­
,1•rs -dl'linitely. \'1cJ.iwr :iw,,;jon: ,shat violence arises when a girl embraces another girl? When a man kisses another man? Now consider the potential for violence when some­one spreads a message that bigotry .can be jus­tified with a Bible. 
In addition, Mr. Klukowski feels that a goal of Outreach -"to make members feel good about themselves" ­is "irresponsible and divi­sive." I now ask you,just what do the mf~mbers 
of Outreach have to feel bad or ashamed about? And further­
more, who bcstowPd upon you the right to judge? 
You cPrtainly did not find that in the scriptures of' three major Abrahmn-bast>d religions or in tlw cate­chism. Thern is noihing itTPsponsi­blc• abou1 ct>lebra.ting div<'rsity and 
championing the r·ouragP c,f' stwh•nts who have c;unn out and chall<'ngNI tlw pn•judini..: again~t tlwm. Divi;-;ivP? :\re Uwr, lirws !wing draw,·':' ~o, tlwrP an' not. l!"arts ::r;d min,b arp b<,;11~ ,lpPtWd. 
: sug~r<'st that you ri•-Pval:'.n ,. ;·••Ur: :a:hdil' 
• · • k'ft1·ku0 • ·\ qu;,.k· -;ua·,,,·,;tinn :r,.
·idp·t'•·_, ,(_ i:,. "•I"1 -',, · "i>"\o''•··~k1' i,'\ · hb, . ~ 
',,u don't mind -I lt•arn::d su much about vdmt hPing a Chrisil<1n :s fn,n: a c::1-.:c I look m: ''1'phmnnre y1°ar at .\D. And e{Ut'SS .\ llat':' \,J:, ·: ·,;fr-•<·r \\RS gav . 

-.i,drea Milyko 
:)ft~,ca111ru:-. 
z 'n. it!th 
O
THE 

BSERVER 




page 14 Friday, October 19, 200 I Friday, October 19, 2001 

• Title graphics courtesy of www.rockyhorror.com . 
At each showing of the film, the the­will periodically rise from their seats By JULIE BENDER and CHRISTIE ater transformed into an escape from and dance in the aisles of the theater BOLSEN 
society's conformity. People began while shouting lewd and sexuallyScene Writers 
showing up dressed as the androgy­explicit comments at the screen. nous characters, wearing gothic vel­So exactly what is the draw of "The What began in Lon9on as a small vets and lace and sometimes only Rockv Horror Picture Show?" The 
six-week theater project in 1973 has 
underclothes. answer lies in the audience's interpre­
become an underground cult classic 

This audience interaction soon took tation of the film. As far as movies go,
by today's standards. vVritten by 
on the role of actually acting along "Rocky Horror" lacks a solid plot and Richard O'Brien, "The Rocky Horror 
with the characters on screen as the sometimes (always) borders on the 
Show" started off as an experimental 
film played in the background. Acting bizarre. And certainly, none of the 
musical, mixing science-fiction and 
troupes formed in various cities, some actors play Oscar-winning roles in the 
horror, while at the 

troupes took the movie, even with names like Susan 
same time testing show so seriously Sarandon and Meatloaf. Yet, audi­the boundaries of 

they held auditions. ences keep coming.
alternative behav­"It's de.finitly about being 
With time "The The theme of the film, is one of iors, sexuality and who you are and not being Rocky Horror openness and freedom. In "Rockyattitudes. afraid to be whatever you Picture Show" Horror" there are no inhibitions 
With high audi­evolved into its own regarding sexuality and alternative

want to be ... the whole 
ence approval and 

phenomenon. lifestyles. Going to "Rocky Horror" is positive reviews, atmosphere of 'Rocky' is Although every to come to a place where everyone is "The Rocky Horror very open and accepting . ., troupe has its own embraced. Inside the theater there is 
Show" graduated to 

traditions, certain no judgment; everyone becomes a 
larger, more widely aspects of the film part of a unique group of people far 

known theaters. As Jeff Gamlin 
,, are universal. from the mundane. Social conformitythe audience grew, Pink Invaders cast member Before each show­(and extra clothing) is left at the
' 
' so did its fame, and 
ing, the master of door. 
in 1975 a low-bud­

ceremonies The film celebrates the extraordi­
get film was creat­

announces the rules nary stories of several individuals, in 
ed mimicking the 

of the theater while which they explore and act out their 
play. 

Rocky Horror sur-sexual curiosity. Brad Majors, playedAlthough the film opened to lacklus­vival kits are handed out or sold to the by Barry Bostwick, and Janet Weiss, 
ter reviews and was not accepted by 
audience. played by Susan Sarandon, are the 
the masses, an independent subcul­
Next, the virgin sacrifice: anyone two newly engaged protagonists.
ture began to grow around the film as 
who has never seen the show is While driving to visit an old college a result of the show's liberating genre. 
dragged onto the stage and is subject professor one cold November evening,Cinemas began to run midnight show­
to embarrassing, but harmless rituals, their car runs into some tire trouble,
ings of the film on Fridays and 
which vary depending on the acting forcing the couple to seek help up the 
Saturdays and outpourings of misfit 
troupe that is performing. road. 

youths would congregate at the movie After everyone is seated again, the The palace they come upon is owned theaters each weekend. 
lights dim and the film starts. A spot­by a "sweet transvestite" named Encouraged by the film's deviance light shines on the actors up front as Frank N. Purter (Tim Curry). Frank 
from social norms, much of the nightly they lip-sync the on-screen charac­takes the pair on a liberating journey
audience became regular attendees. 
ters. Throughout the film the audience meeting characters such as Riff Raff, the butler (Richard O'Brien); his incestuous sister Magenta (Patricia Quinn); Columbia, the 
the "Hocky Rocky Horror
tap dancer (Little 

Horror" characters Picture Show"Nell) and Eddie, 
returned to the plan-because they
the biker 

(MeatloaD. Along et Transsexual in watched it on video. Transylvania, Brad and But to get the full effect of
the way the pair 

Janet must face the task of read­all the cross-dressing merriment
runs into Dr. 

justing to society alone after such an a trip to the theatre is essential.
Scott, the old col­

experience. Upon leaving the theater, Guaranteed to be unlike any other
lege· professor 

viewers of the film often feel the same movie-going experience, the movie
they were on 

way. . features pre-show entertainment as
their way to visit 

The experience of seeing the pro­well as the live actors.
(Jonathan 

duction is quite unique. Many people The Crossroads Theatre in
Adams); and 

may think that they have seen "The Merrillville is the local Rocky Horror
Furter's scientif­ic creation, Rocky Horror himself, played by Peter Hinwood. 
By the end of the film, the innocent Brad and Janet find themselves con­fused and unsure of what normalcy is any 

I• 
more. With all 


Directions to the Crossroads Theater 
To get to the Crossroads Theater, start out going north on US-33 by turning right. Take the 1-90/1-80 ramp and keep left at the fork in the ramp. Merge onto 1-80 W toll road, then take the I-80/1-94/IN-51 exit, exit number 21, toward, Illinois Tollway/US-6 W/Des Moines. Keep right at the fork in the ramp, then keep left at the1fork in the ramp. Merge onto 1-80 W. Take the 1-65 S exit, exit number 12A, toward Indianapolis. Merge onto I-65 S, and take the 61st Ave exit, exit number 255, toward Hobart/ Merrillville. Turn right onto E 61st Ave, and left onto Broadway/IN-53. The address is 6180 Broadway in Merrillville. The drive takes about 



THE
OBSERVER 


campus 
page 15 


mecca. Their show is filled with mis­
chief, mayhem and mixed up sexuali­
ty.
Shortly before the Pink Invaders'
pre-show, an actor stripped down to
shiny green bikini underwear and pro­
ceeded to perform lap dances for inno­
cent audience members. Meanwhile,
another cast member sold survival
kits, which contained various props
for the audience to throw during key
scenes in the movie.
Included were: bags
of rice, aroll of toilet 
paper, apair of latex "It's all about sex and drag." includes
gloves, newspaper, dancing the 
some playing cards, "Time Warp"
Jennifer Grzanka

toast and other use­in the aisles
ful items. Pink Invaders cast member of the the-
When the pre­
show itself began,
it became obvious 
;;: .. that mo-st -o-f the 
spectators had seen the movie on
countless occasions since they have
the lines memorized and shout back 
at the screen in unison. Callbacks
involve responding to the charac­
ters' actions or words on-screen,
usually twisting the meaning of the
lines with sexual innuendo.
The emcee, Shawn Stutler, owns·
the Crossroads Theater and is the
leader of the Pink Invaders acting
troupe. He performs "The Rocky
Horror Picture Show" with the group
on aweekly basis.
Stutler begins the show with a dis­
claimer for the easily offended to leave
within a ten second countdown. That
said, the obscenities and sexual refer­
ences flow freely for rest of the show.
The pre-show is a bizzare mix of
theatre and ritual; for example, last
Saturday part of the mad festivities
included passing around a sequined
collection hat to pay an audience
member to cut off his mullet. After the 
secret Rocky Horror virgin rituals 
were performed, the movie began.
The Pink Invaders dress in costumes
that uncannily match the ones on­
screen and all their movements corre­
spond with characters in the movie.
During the first scene, which involves 
a wedding in a church, rice is tossed
around in the audience like the wed­
ding party on-screen. The live actors
know all the lines in the movie and
simultaneously mouth every word
along with the characters while copy­
ing their actions.
Deciding whether to watch the melo­
drama in the movie or the play is hard
enough, but even more difficult is try­
ing to listen to the lines without miss­
ing out on the witty callbacks between
the experienced audience members
and the screen. While most of the one­
line rs are unprintable, they are
wickedly funny and timed perfectly
with the dialogue. This is the essence
of "Rocky Horror," wearing anewspa­
per hat during the rain scene because
there are water pistols shooting water
everywhere and hearing someone
shout derogatory comments to Janet
and Brad as they enter the ominous 
house of Dr. Frank N. Purter.
At this point, the transvestite mad­
ness breaks out in full force; both the
movie cast and the Pink Invaders
flaunt glittery corsets and black
leather galore, not to mention plenty
of visible undergarments. Costuming is 
an integral part of "The Rocky Horror
Picture Show," not only for the actors
but also the audience. It is simply a 
part of the incredible phenomenon of
audience
participation,
which also 
atre as it
plays out on­
screen and 
onstage.
Jeff Gamlin, a Pink Invaders cast
member who plays Riff Raff and has
also been Dr. Scott, Janet and
Magenta, thinks that the unique cult
appeal is largely based on this audi­
ence interaction.

"It's definitely about being who you
are and not being afraid to be whatev­
er you want to be ... the whole atmos­
phere of 'Rocky'
is very open arid
accepting,"
Gamlin said.
Many of the 
actors credit the
tolerant atmos­
phere as being a
major factor in
its widespread
appeal. The
movie portrays
characters of all
sexual orienta­
tions and 
appearances,
from the clean-
cut Janet and
Brad to the out­
rageously flam­
boyant Dr.
in his inky black
makeup and
drag.
Jennifer
Grzanka, a crew
member and 
actor, began
watching the
show three 
years ago.
Though she 
wear red glittery
horns glued on
her forehead on
Saturday nights,
she revealed
that she does not
always dress in
Rocky-type out­
fits but finds the
show to be a
hobby that pro­

vides an outlet. "The Rocky Horror Picture Show" thrives on sexual ambigu­
"It's all about 

ity and curiosity. 
sex and drag," Grzanka laughed, only
half-jokingly.
"[It's also about] open-mindedness,
having agood time, laughing at your­
self and being secure with your sexu­
ality." Gamlin agreed. "It's probably
one of the most unique experiences in
theatre you 're going to see ... how 
many movies do you go to where peo­
ple are shouting at the screen, throw­
ing different props at different scenes;
people are acting it out in front of the 
screen; everybody gets up and dances 
at some point during the film -just
that alone, where else do you get that?
Idon't think they did that at 'Titanic."'
"The Rocky Horror Picture Show" is
featured every Saturday night at mid­
night. On Oct. 27, the Pink Invaders
will have their special Halloween
show. Tickets cost $5, and a survival
kits are $1 apiece. For more informa­
tion call the box office at (219} 980­
0589.
C. Spencer Beggs contributed to this
article. 
Contact Julie Bender at
bender.10@nd.edu or Christie Boisen at
bolsen.l@nd.edu. 
C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 19, 2001 
AMERICAN LEAGUE PLAYOFFS 
Yankees beat Mariners 3-2 to take ALCS lead 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

Lou Piniella's stare was hard when he stalked into the interview room tonight, his cheeks puffing over clenched teeth. The Sfmttle Mariners won 116 games and tied a regular-season mark and the Yankees are threatening to banish that accomplishment into the small print of record books. 
The Yankees edged Seattle tonight, 3-2, in Game 2 of the American League Championship Series, doing the same things they did to win Game 1, the start­ing pitcher throwing well and handing a lead to the bullpen, Mariano Rivera blow­ing away the last hitters. 
The series is shifting to Yankee Stadium for the next three games beginning Saturday, and the Mariners' task is extra­ordinary: they must win four of the next five games against a team that has won three straight ·world Series champi­onships and their last five playoff games. The Yankees were on the verge of elimi­nation a week ago, but they are rolling now, and Piniella was furious, his face crimson. 
Before anyone asked a question, Piniella made a statement. "We're going to be back here to play Game 6," he said with determination that Billy Martin and Thurman Munson, his old manager and teammate, probably saw many years ago. "We are going to be back here to play Game 6. Now you can ask any questions you want." 
Piniella's words sharpened thereafter, and he stayed on message, talking through a question about some of his slumping hitters. 
"They have done it all year for us, but you know what -there's still time," Piniella said. "We've got another five games to play." 
Piniella's statement was replayed within seconds in the Yankees' clubhouse, and one coach emitted a loud whistle. The utilityman Luis Sojo s·aid, "That's not going to happen." 
It won't if Seattle cannot generate more runs. Andy Pettitte stifled the Mariners in Game 1 and tonight it was Mike Mussina. who held Seattle to two runs in six innings despite having less than his best stuff. 
Freddy Garcia started on three days' rest for Seattle and the Yankees scored all their runs against him in the second inning, Scott Brosius ripping a two-run double and Chuck Knoblauch dumping a run-scoring single just in front of center fielder Mike Cameron. 
It was the worst possible start for Seattle. The last time Mussina lost when the Yankees scored him three or more runs: May 1 7. The last time the Yankees lost a post-season game after taking a three-run lead: Oct. 2, 1997. 
But Mussina could not exploit the expe­rienced Mariners hitters as he did the Oakland hitters last weekend, when he pitched seven scoreless innings and reversed the Yankees' postseason slide. John Olerud and Mike Cameron flied out to open the bottom of the second inning, two outs on four pitches, no problem. Then Stan Javier fouled off four pitches in a nine-pitch at-bat and worked a walk. 
Dan \Vilson got ahead in the count two balls and no strikes and fouled off a fast­ball, and another and another; Wilson fouled seven consecutive pitches, in fact, before lining a hit over second baseman Alfonso Soriano. David Bell slapped two more fouls, worked a full count and then struck out. The Mariners failed to score in the inning but they had taxed Mussina, forcing him to throw 29 pitches in the inning. 
"I don't think he had his good stuff," catcher Jorge Posada said. "But he didn't give up." 
There was extra stress on Mussina in the third inning, as well. Ichiro Suzuki clubbed a long drive to center field and Bernie Williams, the baseball pinballing off the inside of his glove and falling to the ground for a two-base error. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Nocre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassHieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
... 

FDA AENI 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS mmmrentals.com email: mmmrentals@aol.com 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms with private baths. $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418­9487 
3 br 2 ba ranch parklike yd all appl S1200 mo oatti g_rice century 21 .Jim McD11n!!-lti 235-3062 
U&B 2~R00MS ~OMEGAMES 2 '.!.1 NO OF r ,\MPUS ::.47-11?.4 
~oc~9;r1 , i z.~r;C Br•~!"•~:+J.st. 45 ,·.-·;·•..,,>;fr · , '1·'1fn Jame. ~.~.R 
::,oc~11S / _.'" !!...A8LE "'•.-:­' ~i;;" ~ ::;-~ < ',:. · 1CT­
VS. NAV':' 1!::E'<Ei'iD por:\iiS 
BLOCKEL :c-;~ V ';:; ~•·:'.:'tJFER­ENCE. EX :..:_,\ _; /;'/AiL \Jd:: '=CR MORE 1NF0~<1A ~:or-; c f:ASE 
CALL BARB -iERB AT :;12-2..;3­4244 ,'(41~)'~ 

Bed 'n Breakfast near ND for grad. weekend. Wild Irish Rose Inn. 219­277-4303 www.irishroseinn.com 
WAN IED 
WANTED 
Student wanted! Alum owned 2 story, 5 bdr. 2 bth w/ newer carpet. Appl, sec, roof & furnace. 3 lot yd, 1 blk N. of Club 23. 321-217-8451. 
Black female seeking same for roommate Castle Point. $350 + Deposit. 
Responsible person who enjoys kids needed for af\er school. Monday through Friday 4-7 PM. Need own car. Call 272-6145. 
Fun promotional jobs -:: 10/hr to give away cool new prod· ucts prornog1rl.com 
-·--·-----­
rOR SA1-E 
Fo·R SALE 
For 0 ::.le: 17 For-: ••u:,,JS. c:..xcellei'I cr.ndit1or,. ~-,yNl,r :o,:, . steern9.: ,·:. S6300 O10,c 
.. ·616-6f.3J;42? 

-.. . . ·• ---· ' . ­Nikon oCC6 Camera Bcc::y. 9ecem 


Nort~sorP. '.:::2:1do. 1428 Marigold way near ND. 1 cm , oath, LR, DR & kitchen with appnances. 1 ca( garage. $69.000. Call Dor;s at 25,1.•..,72 
Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold 
Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bah, LR, DR 
& kitchen with appliances. 1 car 
garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254­
1772 for more info. 
Selling Varsity Club time share 1 soph. wk. $9,500 272-1753 
lleRl:TS 
Students road tripping to BC game. Need tickets' Call Lora at 243-0928 until Sat and Kerry at 207-985-4379 next week! 
BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 277-6619 or 273-3911 
~OTRE DAME FOOTS.ALL ..,-IX FnR SALE "' 
",.M. :232-2378 P ..,, 288-2726 
"'-.~·~ t;:-.kets fc-'..:.;2:.:--L-~-\..-.. ~~·-t 
:.''12-09t..!. 
::: ec :1x .n '-I ·,.,den<.,;:,,-. 'kst Offer. · _,,; ~-;"; :-~·•,j 

PERSONAL 
SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available. www. EpicuRRean.com 1-800-231-4-FUN 
WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan FOR FREE1 To find out how, calt 1­888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun­coastv&cations.com 
Spring Break Insanity! 
or call l-800-327-6013 Guaranteed lowest prices! .\H desti· 
1ations! Fifteen years experience' .·Vanied: Representatives and orga­-:izatoins, earn top $$$, build •,1our ~es1,me 
~• ·Hlt·1G : F·EAi< p,-1, n .. ' ;• .t.1:, :·. 
RE'"'. ·.:;.vel i'<nk:s. :-... -.. , -, ,,. · 1rr:c~ wi• 1-, the 81:-": :-:Js .·. ·., , . .,,1et;a1ef in C,,,1cun, ;;r, .. , .:. ·..,;,.',:,ti, . ct11d the Rar·clmc:1c c;,. ·. s,, cif;:,tC,ty.cnn. c;ili '. .;, -,!, ... :1­
.,: ema; 
Sr,,i.•~. ::.,eak nitl· s·, S. "1:•··::•'.' s 
•:: ~,,;,..,~.-,t ·. ow (';ere:..:·. . ·· :•.'ill'! inps on -,--,,_,us,., n :cas, 
•..-1d f•ee trips. Info/Reser,· :.dons • ·800-r,48-,:849 
$300-$800 Scholarships Available per semester! Looking for a job which lets you work around your school schedule? We have several part-time and full­time day & evening positions paying $7-$11/hr. We offer the following: 'Scholarship money 'Flexible Schedules *Paid yacations/holidays *Optional Saturdays *Health/Ufe/401 (k) •Incentives/Raises *Supervisory1Mgt. Positions 1 ·(888) 801-JOBS jobs@americallcorp.com Just minutes north of campus 
... 
•..ACT NOW! Guarantee the best spring break prices! South Padre. Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas. Mardi Gras, Acapulco. Fiorda & Madrigas. Reps needed. Travel free, ~arr SSS. Group discour;t for 6+ '100­838-8203 www leisuretours. :J 
ADOPTION IS LOVE 
; ) 0:--'·~-1ti~, :~ ;r 'c(:a, 1: · _ :-,,·r-:ise ,c., .. ,,-._,,,., 
: ;I_, ·, 0 ..:: · f fi_. : ;· '. ,. -_;.: i(..:; 
.... : .. 
"' 
it 1,..-'),'."'}$ 
'-... , ::1 J00-::.2:10C ',is c.-·s.ter 
•.-i,;1 tr--, easy -;ampushm,:ra1ser.com ti :ree hour funora1s1ng event. Does not involve 

credit card applications. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today! Contact campus­fundraiser.com at 888 923-3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com 
Happy 21st Birthday Cuddlebug 
xoxo 
Make it hap'n cap'n ... 

Whooo-hooo -yeah for fall break 
I would like to personal thank the jerks in Knott Hall section B whose water purifier has prevented me from having hot water in my room all year 
Does anyone else think that USC's ·'This is the oniy song we knov/' 1s actually a good song? 
No 

ff I nave to hear that stupid Tro1an '.A.:crc,, one ,·-.:re tirrn.. , 1··n .!' to ~e~1ere1-/ -,!1Jre :; . r;,nf,f•;rter •-'~i,....;11<­
H t~ .: ~----. 1a(1k .!~.:.; : · .-_.-:i~; a .~2!•·-1acc:;;-,. •( -_.;, :1ecki11g ~1y 
·,a11"! a :::,Jd far ,,·._c:1k ­,. 1f)server staff 



Friday, October 19, 2001 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 

NHL 
New Jersey ends winless streak, wins 6-1 
great backhander 18 seconds circle after a crisp cross-ice agent in the offseason, tied it at
Associated Press 
after the opening faceoff. pass from Chris Drury at 10:03.· 7 :25 of the second with his first The 'A Line' tied it at 5:54 of Edmonton's Mike Comrie goal for the Stars, who were onEAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
the first period as Arnott scored on a power play at 1:10 a 5-on-3, when his centeringPatrik Elias, Jason Arnott and pushed a puck behind the net to of the second period, chipping pass got past Sean Burke.
Petr Sykora combined for five Sykora. He found Elias in front in a shot from just left of the net Turgeon capitalized with agoals and 12 points as the New for a quick shot that whizzed that wasn't ruled a goal until man-advantage 1 :07 later when Jersey Devils snapped a four­past goaltender Evgeni the referees consulted the video he fired from the slot to givegame winless streak with a 6-1 Nabokov, who played well replay. Dallas a 2-1 lead.
victory over the San Jose 
despite giving up four goals on Moments later, Salo weath­Shaun Van Allen added anSharks on Thursday night. 
20 shots. ered a flurry as Colorado put six empty-net goal for Dallas withElias had three goals and two The Devils scored four times shots on goal during a power 19.2 seconds left. 
assists, Arnott had two and two in the opening 11:51 of the sec­play but failed to convert. The Coyotes spent most of the and Sykora had three assists as ond period to break the game Subsequent penalties on second period on the penaltythe 'A Line' led the two-time open. Colorado's Greg de Vries and kill because they were called for defending Eastern Conference Dagenais gave New Jersey the Martin Skoula gave the Oilers a six penalties in the period, cop­champions to their first win of lead at 55 seconds, deflecting a 5-on-3 advantage for 45 sec­mared to just two for Dallas. 
the season. 
shot by Rafalski for a power­onds, and Carter capitalized Stars goaltender Marty TurcoRookie Pierre Dagenais also play goal. The officials reviewed from the left circle at 9:58 for had saves to register his first
scored. defenseman Brian 
the play to see if his stick was his third goal of the season. victory of the season.
Rafalski added two assists and 
too high, but the goal stood. At 17:44, Carter scored again
Martin Brodeur had 24 saves after Skoula's errant pass from
for the Devils, who lost their Red Wings 3, Flyers 2 
behind the goal went to Ryan

first three games and then Oilers 4, Avalanche 1 Sergei Fedorov and Brett Hull 
Smyth in the left circle, and

picked up a point in an overtime Anson Carter had two goals scored within 22 seconds of
Smyth fed Carter just right of

loss to the Rangers on and an assist, Tommy Salo had each other in the final minute of 
the crease.

Wednesday night. 28 saves and the Edmonton the Detroit Red Wings· come­
The 0-3 start was the worst Oilers raced past the Colorado back victory over the since the franchise moved to Avalanche. Stars 3, Coyotes 1 Philadelphia Flyers. New Jersey for the 1982-83 The Oilers scored three goals Pierre Turgeon scored two The Red Wings trailed 2-1 season, and the one point in in the second period, two by power-play goals in a span of when they pulled goalie four games matched the Devils' Carter, to erase a 1-0 deficit. just over a minute in the second Dominik Hasek for an extra previous low, set in 1994-95, The defending Stanley Cup period in the Dallas Stars' victo­skater, and Fedorov scored with when, ironically, New Jersey champion Avalanche, losing for ry over the Phoenix Coyotes. 40 seconds left to tie it. Hull won its first Stanley Cup. the third time in four games Phoenix took a 1-0 lead early scored the go-ahead goal with 
The Sharks, who had two including the second time to the in the second on Paul Mara's 18 seconds left. wins, two ties and an overtime Oilers, got 26 saves from goal, but penalties to the Luc Robitaille scored his loss in their first five games, Patrick Roy. Coyotes' Todd Simpson and fourth goal in as many games looked as if they were ready to Colorado's Rob Blake had the Teppo Numminen gave the for the Red Wings, who are 6-1­add to the Devils' woes when only goal of the first period, a Stars a two-man advantage. 1 to open the season. Teemu Selanne scored on a shot from just beyond the left Turgeon, signed as a free Jeremy Roenick and Marty 
Murray scored for Philadelphia, which has not won at Joe Louis Arena since November 4, 1988. 
The Flyers took a 1-0 lead when Roenick stood in front of Hasek and deflected Dan McGillis' shot from the right point at 2:59 of the first period. Roenick, who has five points in his last three games, scored his second goal of the season. 
The Red Wings tied it on Robitaille's goal at 5:20 of the second. Hull anlii Robitaille came in on 2-on-1, and Hull 
www.catalinos.com 
held the puck on the right side before passing it at the last sec­
Dine in/Carry--out Reservations recommended 
ond to Robitaille, who beat 
Brian Boucher into the empty left side of the net. Murray scored on a power 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S FINEST ITALIAN DINING 
Buy one Dinner, get the second for 1/2. 
play at 14:48 of the second to give the Flyers a 2-1 lead.
Not valid on Holidays or Notre Dame event weekends 
Murray, who spent most of last 
or with other offers. 


season with Calgary's AHL affil­iate, hadn't scored an NHL goal since October 
Bfackhawks 5, Predators 3 
Eric Daze and Steve Thomas 
scored in the last two minutes 
of the third period to lead the 
Chicago Blackhawks over the 
Nashville Predators on 
Thursday night. 
Daze snapped a 3-all tie at 
18:08 of the third when he beat goaltender Mike Dunham with a shot between the pads. 
Thomas, who finished with two goals. scored into an empty net at 19:47. 
Kyle Calder and Igor Korolev also scored for Chicago (3-3-1­
0). 
Tom Fitzgerald, David 
Legwand and Vitali Yachmenev 
scored for Nashville (1-3-2-0). 
Fitzgerald opened the scoring 
at 8:30 of the first period. 
Chicago goaltender Jocelyn 
Thibault stopped a shot, but 
Fitzgerald scored on the 
rebound. 
Thomas scored his first goal of the game at 10:11, skating in front of the goal and beating goaltender Mike Dunham to the stick side. 
Nashville moved out to a 2-1 
lead when Legwand beat 
Thibault with a one-timer at 
12:43 of the first period. 
At the 15-minute mark, Jon Klemm bounced a shot off Dunham's chest. Calder scored past the sprawled Dunham. tying the game at 2. 
Korolev beat Dunham high into the left corner 43 seconds later to give Chicago a 3-2 lead. 
Dallas 3, Phoenix 1 
The Dallas Stars signed Pierre Turgeon in the offseason to add some scoring punch. After going six games without a goal, Turgeon finally delivered against the Phoenix Coyotes. 
Turgeon scored two power­play goals in a span of just over a minute in the second period in the Stars' victory. 
"It's good to get the first one out of the way, but it's not like it hadn't happened to me before," Turgeon said. "I had been get­ting good chances, so you know it's only a matter of time before they're going to start going in." 
Phoenix took a 1-0 lead early in the second on Paul Mara's goal, but penalties to the Coyotes' Todd Simpson and Teppo Numminen gave the Stars a two-man advantage. 
Turgeon tied it at 7:25 of the second with his first goal for the Stars, who were on a 5-on-3 advantage, when his centering pass got past Sean Burke. Turgeon capitalized with a man-advantage 1 :07 later when he fired from the slot to give Dallas a 2·1 lead. 
"We got some momentum there," Turgeon said. 
The Stars hadn't won in nine days. Over a span of three games, they lost twice. once in overtime, and had a 2-2 tie at St. Louis on \Vednesday night. Dallas was playing its second game during a stretch of three games in four nights. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 19, 2001 
ND SWIMMING SMC VOLLEYBALL 


Skube 
JOIIlS 

ND staff 
Special to The Observer 

Irish head coach Bailey Weathers announced today the hiring of Josh Skube as an assis­tant svvimming and diving coach. Skube replaces Kristin Heath, who left in July to pursue other opportunities. 
Skube moves into a full-time role after serving as the Irish vol­unteer coach last season. Notre Dame finished the year by win­ning its fifth consecutive Big East swimming and diving title and qualifying three athletes for the NCAA meet. 
"We are excited to have Josh remain on our staff in an expand­ed role. He brought a lot to our team last season and we expect him to do even more in his new position this year," Weathers said. 
A '98 graduate of Indiana University, Skubc was a member of the Ball State swimming team from 1994-96. Skube was also a member of the Indiana University \tasters Sv\-im Team. , 
A distance freestyle specialist, Skubc is from nearby Chesterton, Ind., and attended Chesterton High School. Chesterland won the Duneland Conference title his junior and senior season, while he was named the team's most valu­able player. 
Skube has been published in Swim Technique and has s1~rved as an assistant coach of Bloomington North High School and Duneland Swim Club. 
A member of the American College of SporL<; Medicine, Skube received a bechelor's degree in kinesiology from Indiana and is currently pursuing a master's degree in exercise physiology. 
"I am excited about continuing at Notre Dame in my new role and having the opportunity to teach and coach some of thi1 best swimmers in the nation. I look for­ward to challenging this team and driving them toward continued success," Skube said. 
_Belles looking to bump out of last place 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
It's crunch time. With only two MIAA games left in the season before the tourna­ment, the Belles will have to turn up their intensity to fin­ish the season high£~r than last place. 
"We need to keep the inten­sity up," head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. 
Even if they keep the inten­sity, the Belles are going to have a hard time bringing home wi'ns in the next week. The Belles final two games come against two of the three teams tied for first place in the MIAA. The Belles will face off against the Scots of Alma on Saturday and the Flying Dutch of Hope College on Wednesday before head­ing into the MIAA tourna­ment on Oct. 30. 
Coming off of a near-win against the Bulldogs of Adrian. moving forward is key for the Belles. 

"Our goal now is to not go backwards," Schroeder-Biek said. "To build for the future." 
Saint Mary's (1-11) will have its hands full with the 9-3 Bulldogs and Flying Dutch. The Scots are 18-8 overall, while the Flying Dutch have reached an over­all record of 15-9. 
Both teams defeated the Belles in the last contest this season. Last season, Hope won the MIAA Championship. with only one loss all season. They Flying Dutch are com­ing off of a loss to Calvin that forced them to relinquish sole possession of first place. 
Hope will again be led by junior Laura llanfeld, who has been finishing most games in double dig­its in both kills and digs all season. Alma will not be any easier. The Scots are coming off of five straight victories that cul­minated with a :~-0 victory against Olivet on Wednesday. 

The Scots are on-track to finish better than their 9-5 MIAA record last season and possibly win the MIAA cham­pionship, something that has not happened under head coach Penny Allen-Cook. 
The Belles, who have seen strong play by individuals, are looking for a strong team effort to wrap up regular­season play. 
"I am looking for this team to come into this one with intensity," said Schroeder­Biek. "And everybody needs 

to take care of their game and play their game." 
Action gets under way at 1 
p.m. at Alma on Saturday. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

9th Annual Emil T. Hofman Lecture 
''THE WAR ON PROSTATE CANCER'' 
Patrick C. Walsh, M.D. Professor of Surgery and Director of Brady Urologic Institute Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine 
Saturday October 20, 2001 10:00 a.m. -11 :30 a.m. Room 101 DeBartolo Hall (Before the Southern California game) 
Co-Sponsored by Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center, South Bend, and the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
-

Best Pizza East or Anywhere! 

Get 32nd Large tor 900 


271-1277  
PIZZA COMPANY®  SR 23 at Ironwood  
plzzadonerlght.  (Next to Subway)  




! ... -. ' 
' 
Friday, October 19, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT pag~ 19 
·eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee.
e . . . . . e e ~~~, e
e y~~-.~----~ e e ~~~~ ~=~~~ e e ,~~r--...·.-...._..-· ~~~~ e e ~~~~,.__. ·-------e 
e ~~~~~---:____ ~..____..-e
~ W'.,.,......~~ e ~~-e 
·e e 
e e 
. e ARE YOU TURNING IN YOUR e 


e-APPLICATION TODAY? e
e · · e 
e e 
e e 
e But if you don'\t get it in e 



e no\later than e 

e e 
e e 
e e 
e e
e Apply at 8 e e 
e e 
. @ www.nd.~_dl..l/~london_pr 153 HURLEY HALL 9 
e -e 
eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 19, 2001 


NBA 
Jordan 

makes first , start 
Associated Press 

GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. 
Michael Jordan scored 24 points and grabbed six rebounds in 32 minutes, but his Washington Wizards lost 114­88 to the Detroit Pistons in a preseason game Thursday night before a soldout crowd of 11,639 at Van Andel Arena. 
Detroit's Jerry Stackhouse scored a game-high 36 points. 
Jordan was 7-for-20 from the field and 9-for-12 from the free throw line in his third exhibi­tion game since returning from a three-year layoff. Jordan played three more minutes than he did in his first two games combined, despite spraining his left foot Saturday at Miami. 
The five-time regular-season MVP and six-time NBA champi­on with the Chicago Bulls didn't look as spectacular as he did when he scored 18 first­quarter points against the Heat. Rather, he looked like a player still trying to shake off some rust. 
He made a few crafty cuts to the basket -with and without the ball -but was unable to finish several layups, both of the standard and reverse vari­ety. His shooting touch was inconsistent, as the 13 missed shots showed. 
However, Jordan was able to get to the free throw line early and often by drawing fouls in the post and on the perimeter. 
On defense, Jordan looked savvy at times by getting into the passing lane and knocking a pass out of bounds as he did 39 seconds into the game. 
He looked vulnerable during other sequences, however, picking up three first-half fouls and five in the game. Seven­year veteran Michael Curry. never known for his offensive skills, scored easily on Jordan with a drop-step move a few minutes into the game. 
--7<occo's 
Aut¦urant 
NCAA 
NCAA to review D-1 standards 

Associated Press 
lNDIANAPOLIS 

When the NCAA Management Council meets next week to discuss new Division I-A standards. Mid­American Conference com­missioner Rick Chryst will be monitoring the discussions closely. 
That's because the propos­al. which includes a stipula­tion that all schools draw an average attendance of 15,000 to its home football games, could endanger the Division I-A status of many of Chryst's conference schools. 
"That's something that's been out there a while-, but it's still early in the process," Chryst said. "As this package here is being developed, I see the stan­dards broadening as an encouraging sign for us." 
The council, which is to meet in Indianapolis on Monday and Tuesday, is expected to send the pro­posal to its full member­ship for comment. No final decision is expected until at least next spring. 
The proposal would change current standards by eliminating a confer­ence exemption that allows leagues with at least six schools to main­tain Division I-A status if half of the league mem­bers meet either of the two requirements -aver­aging 17,000 fans over a four-year period or having a stadium that seats at least 30,000. 
The changes would require schools to award 90 percent of the 85­scholarship limit in foot­ball and 200 scholarships in all sports totaling at least $4 million, sponsor a minimum of 16 varsity sports -eight of which are women's sports ­play host to at least five Division I-A football games and average at least 15,000 in atten-
Warren & Linda 
dant.e. 

The changes would put· almost half of the MAC's 13 teams in jeopardy of retain­ing their status. 
Council chairman Charles Harris, commissioner of the Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference, could not be reached for comment. 
But Chryst views some of the broader standards as a good sign for his schools. 
"The MAC has historically sponsored a lot of sports," he said. "We sponsor 23 cham­pionships now and we schol­arship a lot of kids. That's what encouraging." 
The problem for the MAC always has been football. 
Six of the 13 conference schools averaged fewer than 15,000 in attendance last season and a seventh, Northern Illinois, averaged 
15,757. Of the 10 schools averaging fewer than 15,000 this season, five are MAC schools including Northern Illinois at 14,752. Four others are averaging fewer than 19,000. 
Still, Chryst said, there are signs of progress. Marshall has been one of the nation's most successful football pro­grams since joining the MAC and Toledo is ranked No. 25 this week. Chryst hopes that will benefit his schools. 
"What we've tried to do is try to improve ourselves in the market place," Chryst said. "We've got another team in the Top 25, we've got a second bowl game for the first time in our history and in the top end of the league, attendance is better than it's ever been. Our aim isn't to water down the stan­dards, our aim is to get bet­

ter." Football is just one item on the council's agenda. 
The council is expected to discuss several changes in basketball, including the 5/8 rule, which allows a school to award no more than five scholarships in one year and no more than eight in any two-year period, and limiting the summer recruiting peri­od to 20 consecutive days instead of two 10-day period. 
"Those are all up for the second time, and cwcffything has to go to the management council twice," NCAA spokeswoman Jane Jankowski said. "If they get approval it will go to the Board of Directors." 
In addition, the council is expected to table proposed changes on amateurism rules until its spriqg meet­ing. 
ttr> 
. 

~ T ET 


One Photo 500 Words Until Sold 
Automobiles o Motorcycles o Boats/Toys o Appliances o Computerso furnishing o Stereos o TV/Vero Toolso Petso 

¦ 
• 
I I 



The Power of One Decision ff;n1 ~'S;)(\~1 niL, «.4n1 «:Jho11g:; ,-.{i,_9111-;· l~ll;: 11:\~lr{_:)'.l;lf

?irsl Oriyinal.:l¾-z:za in 7own I 
Since 1951 

Specializing in Italian Entrees 
Tues. -Thurs.: 5:00 PM• 11:00 PM Fri. -Sal.: 5:00 PM· 1 :00 AM 
537 North St. louls • South Bend. IN 
219-233-:2464 


THANKS TO NOTRE DAME FOR 50 GREAT YEARS 


Friday, October 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
,SMC SOCCER 
Belles don't get a break 
By KATRINA KALASKY 
Sports Writer 
While most will be relaxing during fall break. the Belles will hit the road to play three games against Alma. Albion and Olivet. Then the Saint Mary's season comes to a close next Saturday against Adrian at home. 
"Ideally we would like to win all four of them," said head coach Bobby Johnston. "That's a goal of ours and that's been a goal all season. Just about .500." 
The first game will be Saturday against No. 7 Alma. The Belles have already beat­en the Scots 4-3 earlier in the season. Alma has only won one game in the conference this season. The Scots only have two seniors and 13 underclassmen on the team this year. Their roster is sim­ilar to Saint Mary's, whose roster has 13 freshmen. The Belles will have to watch out for junior Jessica Hoberts, Alma's leading scorer. The game is at Alma College at noon on Saturday. 
"We're at least looking to improve how we played the previous games against the toams," said Johnston. " If we could win all four games that would be the best way to end the season." 
Next Tuesday brings the Belles' biggest challenge of the next week, number one Albion College-. In an earlier match up, the Belles lost 1-4. The Britons were also first in the conference last year and have eighteen returning play­ers on the team this year. Albion is currently undefeat­ed in the MIAA conference. The game is at four o'clock on Tuesday at Albion College. 
"This is the second time around that we're playing these teams and that's and advantage to us. With such a young team a lot of our play­ers hadn't been able to see who our competitors were," said Johnston. 
The Belles suffered a disap­pointing loss on Wednesday to Olivet but they will have the chance to redeem themselves on Thursday. The Belles lost a close game in overtime to their rivals the Comets. This game has been rescheduled from a game that was post­poned earlier in the season. Olivet is currently ranked fourth in the league. The game is at 4 p.m. at Olivet. 
The final game of the Belles season will be played at home against Adrian College. Saint Mary's already defeated Adrian earlier in the season, 4-1. The Bulldogs are cur­rently ranked last in the con­ference. The game is at noon at Saint Mary's. 
"[A good MIAA ranking] is fairly important but its not the top priority right now," Johnston said. "It was one of our goals at the beginning of the season to be up there in the top of the conference but as we've progressed through the season we've learned more that ranking isn't as important as improvement as a team and I think we can easily say we've improved enormously. We just want to finish the season well and hopefully get a good ranking." 
Contact Katrina Kalasky at ka1a5482@saintmarys.edu. 

Soccer 
continued from page 28 
mural sport." With that attitude, it was time to turn things around. 
Where they are 
Once Johnstwi became a part 
of the soccer program, things 
started to change almost imme­
diately. 
"I come from a different 
background," he said. "The 
players, especially the ones that 
were here, do too. There was 
some transition time." 
With a new coaching style, 
the team had to adjust. 
Johnston's more hands-on 
coaching style, freshmen that 
made up more than 50 percent 
of the team, and a new winning 
mentality was unfamiliar news 
to returning players. 
"Leadership and guidance, being a role model on and off the field, there was a lot [the returning players] were asked to do," Johnston said. "But I also realized that it was very hard for the upperclassmen ... This was their team. They weren't stepping into my pro­gram, I was stepping into theirs." 
Johnston's new coaching style was a change for the returning players. Johnston brought a new feel of discipline with him to the field. He expected his players to be punctual for prac­tice and stay focused on each and every task put before them. 
''He really brought in some structure and organization that we were lacking," Muth said. 
Early on in the season, it didn't look like the transition was going to work. After win­ning both pre-season scrim­mages. the Belles started regu­lar-season play with five con­secutive losses. Then, on Sept. 23, things changed. Saint Mary's took home a win from Rose-Hulman that stopped the downward spiral and turned up the heat. 
"I don't even want to think about what would have hap­pened if we didn't get that win," Johnston said. "The team won at a perfect time. It was the part of our schedule that, if we won that game, things were going to happen." 
After that win, things did happen. The Belles went on a three-game winning streak, 
re,. 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 
Indiana and Michigan 
2 I 9/239-6611 · 800/522-6611 
dropped one and then picked up two more games to put their season record at 5-6, a record · that already made the one from last season slip away. 
"We all knew that our team was talented and that we could be a good team, but we weren't getting the results to back that up,'' Muth said. "And then once we started getting those wins, we proved to ourselves and to other teams that we really can be a contender." 
Now Saint Mary's is tied with a Hope team they had been unable to beat in past years for fifth place in the conference. The Belles grounded the Flying Dutch last week in a 2-1 victo­ry. 
Although they still aren't con­ference champions, Saint Mary's finds itself in a good place for a team that just last season, didn't seem to have much future. 
"J definitely think that when they put that uniform on, they have more pride than they did," Johnston said. 
Where they're going 
As Saint Mary's finishes up its season next weekend, the team is looking to the future. 
"There will be expectations," Johnston said. "... [The team] is looking forward to next season and coming in with a fresh start ... Everyone's really looking for­ward to next year." 
The rebuilding process isn't one· that happens overnight. Johnston is not expecting his team to come home with an NCAA championship next sea­son, but he is looking for marked improvement. Being in the middle of the MJAA is no longer acceptable. 
"Next year ... we want to be competing higher, with the Calvins, Kalamazoos and Albions," he said. "I understand we may not be able to beat them next year, but we want to give them a little bit better of a game." 
The goal for next year may not be an MIM championship, but before the class of 2005 leaves Saint Mary's, Johnston want,; to return the soccer pro­gram to the prominence it held in the early 90s. 
"Before the freshman gradu­ate we need to be on top·of the conference," Johnston said, "We want to be up there. It's not a long time. We want to be a championship team which is why I expect these players to train in the off season." 
For the first time in the last five years, the soccer team will have an off-season training pro­gram. Beginning after the sea­son ends, the players will have to lift and run and attend prac­tices with the same focus they bring with them during the sea­son. 
"Practices are mandatory during tho spring season," Johnston said. "We don't have contests but I expect them to practice like we did. I think a lot of players didn't touch the ball from one season to the .next. That can't happen." 
As the program improves. the results will speak for them­selves. Johnston has already begun actively recruiting for next season and has recognized the change in the attitudes of teams the Belles face off against. 
"If you talk to other coaches and other teams, they've changed the way they play Saint Mary's," he said. 'There's a lot more respect." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvoS695@saintmarys.edu 


NOW LEASING 
FOR THE 
2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR · 
DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 
-2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, & 10 
BEDROOM HOUSES -STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS -CLOSE TO CAMPUS -SECURITY SYSTEMS -WELL MAINTAINED HOMES -MANITENANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASHER AND DRYERS 
CONTACT KRAMER (219) 298-9673 OR (219) 234-2436 OR (219) 674-2471 

The perfect home: That's been your dream. 
Now, with annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design a fixed or adjustable-rate mortgage around your specific needs. Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly, with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! Still dreaming of your perfect home? Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it a reality. 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4540 You can also stop by your nearest branch or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org. 
~ 
~!QUAL NOUSINC 
~LENDER 
Independent of the University 

page 22 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 19, 200 I 




Campus Ministry 
Dear Alumni & Friends, 
. 

The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
• 

Notre Dame/USC Football . Weekend ­October 20-21, 2001 
Saturday Vigil Masses· 
Basilica  30 minutes after gai.ne  
•  
Stepan Center  45 minutes after game  

Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:30, 8:00, 9:30 & 11:00 am 
Friday, October 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 


TH A I RESTAURANT "The first Thai restaurant in town. We invite you to try world class cuisine, Thai cuisine, the delicate art that descends from primogenitor. Thai cuisine is designed to excite your five senses; sweet, sour, salty, spicy, and natural." 
Now Hiring 

Hours 
Lunch Mon-Fri 
1lam-2pm 
Dinner Mon-Thu, Sun 
5pm-9pm 
Fri-Sat 
5pm-9:30pm 
211 0 L 

-+-----,A 
C  N.MAIN  S  
0  ST.  A  
LF  L  
A  L  
X  ··r-.~si•  E  

o\\l.:>
"";J.\ 
1232-4445] 
211 N. Main St. South Be11d, IN 46601 
Want to write Sports? Call 
1-4543 
WWW.LUNKERS.COM 
PH 1-616-663-3745 26324 US 12 EAST 
EDWARDSBURG, Ml 
49112 


FOUNDED BY FRAN MCCOLLESTER -A 1977 ND GRAD! 
ONE OF THE LARGEST OUTDOOR STORES IN THE COUNTRY! YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR FISHING, HUNTING AND CAMPING GEAR! WE NOW HAVE A HUGE GIFT AREA! 
ANGllEJR,)S llNN !RESTAURANT 
-LOCATED INSIDE LUNKER'S ­
LARGE MENU OF DELICIOUS FOOD AND DRINK ITEMS. SURROUNDED BY LARGE AQUARIUMS FULL OF FISH AND BIG SCREEN TVS FULL OF SPORTS! PERFECT PLACE TO DINE BEFORE OR AFTER THE GAME! 
OVER 20 AQUARIUMS, INCLUDING OUR 6,000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM 

VISIT OUR CLOTHING

COME EXPERIENCE THE 2ND HIGHLIGHT OF THE AREA AREA FEATURING: ( 1 ST BEING ND) 
NORTH FACE PATAGONIA MIDWEST'S LARGEST SELECTION 
WOOLRICH OF FISHING, HUNTING AND COLUMBIA CAMPING/BACKPACKING EQUIP­FILSON MENT. SO MUCH TO SEE AND EXPERIENCE! HUGE AUTHENTIC SIGNED SPORTS MEMORABILIA* SECTION 
•GOD BLESS AMERICA• 
LOCATED ONLY 15 MINUTES FROM ND! SR 23N TO US 12 
Men 
continued from page 28 
will remain the same. 
"It's pretty close in the top seven or eight [singles play­ers]," Bayliss said. "i3ut it will be the same guys between Casey, Javier, Luis, and Aaron." 
The No. 5 singles position for the Irish will most likely be filled by Matt Scott, while the No. 6 slot will 
McNaughton, Ashok Haju, Brent D'Amico, James Malhame, and perhaps Brian Farrell," Bayliss said. "All of those guys are in the hunt there." 
This early season test will not be an easy one, as the Trojans boast a powerful line­up highlighted by four singles players ranked in the top 100 in the nation, along with the No. 1 doubles team in the country. 
Ranked 34th, the Irish dou­
bles team of 
Smith and 

feature "/The team] is taking Taborga will either have the
shape. It's slowly 

Andrew opportunity to 
Laflin or beginning to mold its compete B r i a n way into some sort of against the top f arrell. pairing in the
form."

"Matt nation, USC's Scott will Hyan Moore definite Iy Bobby Bayliss and Nick play," Hainey. Smith
Irish head coach 

Bayliss said. "And it's probably between Laflin and Farrell for rounding out the top six. I feel like those guys are both top six players, they've both had real good falls." 
The doubles portion of the lineup should also be familiar, as the pairing of Taborga and Smith will defend the Irish at No. 1, followed by Talarico and Haddock-Morales at No. 
2. The No. 3 doubles team is yet to be determined, but Bayliss has a number of options and is not without the resources to form a solid duo. 
"Third doubles will he between, at this point, Paul 
Women 
continued from page 28 
However. if the Irish hope to defeat USC, they will have to rely on more than mere knowledge of their opponent. Louderback is hopeful that the senior members of the Irish will lead the team to victory. 
"The key for us will be how well our seniors play," he said. 
Senior starters Nina Vaughn and Becky Varnum will definitely be crucial ele­ments in that equation. Two weeks ago, Varnum earned five tough wins against some of Georgia's top players in the nation. Meanwhile, in Palm Springs, California, Vaughn tuned up her game in and individual singles tourna~ and Taborga 
have already compiled a 9-2 record, and recently won the consolation title at the ITA All-American Championships, where they won 6 of 7 matches and defeated three top 30 oppo­nents. 
As the whole season is ahead of them the Irish are gradually corning 
together and developing to the level they expect. 
"[The team] is taking shape," Bayliss said. "It's slowly beginning to mold its way into some sort of form." 
Contact Rachel Biber at rbiber@nd.edu. 
ment. 
With some Irish starters playing their first dual­matches ever, Louderback is convinced that senior leader­ship is necessary to stabilize the team against their experi­enced opponent. However, he is quick to point out that regardless of the outcome, this match will not make or break Notre Dame's season. 
"Even though early season matches like this won't nec­essarily help or hurt us, it's going to be a really fun one to play," he said. 
The match will be held at 4 p.rn. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Colan Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. 




¦ 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 19, 2001 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
No. 4 Irish wrap up Big East play at No. 15 UConn 
ByJEFF BALTRUZAK 
Assistant Spores 'Editor 

In  ttw Notre Dame women's soc­ 
cer  tPam's final  Big East game of  
the  season.  the  No.  4  Irish  face  

tlrn ir biggest I e a g tH~ ch a 11 c n ge so far this ynar, taking on No. 15 Co111wctic u t on tIH~ road in Storrs , Conn. on Sunday. 
Then\ hasn't been a better time for the Irish to facf~ the Huskies, as NotrP Dame is playing some its best soccer this season right now. having dispatched St. John's and Miami last weekend with a com­bined 11-0 score. 
"That's true !that the Irish are playing welll," said freshman defender and forward Candace Chapman, who has played solid soccer this season. "But I think our best soccer is yet to come." 
The Irish scoring explosion has been spearheaded by sophomore striker Amy \Varner and senior midfielder Mia Sarkesian. Warner had three goals last weekend alone, and was honored as Big East Offensive Player of the \Veek for her efforts. 
As the two best teams in the Big East, Notre Dame and Connecticut have engaged in some epic battles over the years, including the last five Big East championship games, all of which were close Irish victo­ries. 
If a team has ever had another team's number, :'-Jotre Dame has Connecticut's. 
The Irish have defeated the Huskies in the league champi­onship game every year since join­ing the conference in 1995, the 
year the Irish also won the nation­al championship. Ironically, Notre Dame beat Connecticut 2-0 in 1995 in the third round of NCAAs. 
This Big East Championship streak included the 2000 Big East Championship game, whfHe the Irish defeated th<1 Huskies 1-0 to take the Big East title at Alumni Field. Notre Dame realizes what­ever the history of these two teams, this is stili a season-defin­ing game. 
But the frish aren't losing much sleep over Sunday. "I don't think anyone is vvorrying about it," said Chapman. 
Connecticut comes into Sunday's contest vv·ith a 10-4 record, and are 5-1 in Big East play. The Huskies' stats are almost identical to the Irish. Both teams score just over two goals a game, while allowing O. 8 scores a game. Both teams can be expected to take around 1 7 .5 shots per game. 
"Honestly, we're just going to go out there and take it to them," said Chapman. 
In their preparation, the Irish have not tailored their practice to any specific strengths or weak­nesses of the Huskies. Notre Dame has simply concentrated on play­ing their style and their game. 
"[\Ne've] definitely have been looking forward to. it," said Chapman. "It's a big game. we're just doing our thing." 
And if history is any indication, that thing is securing a win over the Huskies. 
Contact Jeff Baltruzak at jbaltrul@nd.edu 


MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish carry momentum into weekend matchup 


Junior forward Rafael Garcia sprints down the field ahead of a Georgetown defender during a game Oct. 5. 
-I 

By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Wrirer 

Following one of the pro­gram's biggest wins ever against No. 6 Indiana, the men's soccer team will return to Big East competi­tion Saturday against Boston College at Alumni Field. 
The Irish now must turn their attention from their huge win back to confer­ence play. Over fall break, Notre Dame will play three Big East games. The out­come of these games could have great implications regarding the conference tournament. 
"We've got to settle down very quickly. We've got to re-focus, and we've got to be well prepared," head coach Bobby Clark said. "This is a huge game for us. In my mind, it is the biggest game we've played all year." 
Notre Dame currently stands in sixth place in the conference with its 4-2 conference record. While the top eight teams are granted a spot in the sea­son-ending tournament, the top four teams get to host the first round of play. Currently, the Irish are in a dog-fight for one of these top four spots, with just two games separating them from first-place Connecticut. 
"If we can take something out of this game, we are in great shape for making the conference tournament," Clark said. "It would also be very nice if \Ve can get a [top four] seed, because then somebody has to come to your home instead of you going to theirs." 
The Irish could again have their hands full with the No. 21 Eagles this weekend. Boston College is 8-3 on the year and 5-2 in the Big East, in second place behind Connecticut. 
"I was watching tape this morning on the Boston College [Connecticut] game, and to be honest, I thought they were a better team than [Connecticut]," Clark said. "Boston College is a very good team. They are certainly one of the top teams in the Big East, so 
this is going to be  a  huge  
game for us."  
The  Eagles  have  

outscored opponents 25-9 this year, and are lead in scoring by sophomore for­ward Adam Pfeifer, who has thirteen points with five goals. 
On Wednesday, the Irish may get a bit of a breather, 

as they take on Big East bottom-dweller Providence on the road. The Friars are currently winless on the year, with a 0-5 record in Big East competition. 
If the Boston College game is not the biggest match-up of thn year for the Irish, the contest against Connecticut on the last day of fall break could very well be. On the night of Oct. 27, Notre Dame travels to Storrs, Conn. to play defending national champion Connecticut. The 13th-ranked Huskies stand in first place in the Big East at this point in the season with an 8-2 overall record and a perfect 5-0 mark in Big East play. If the Irish continue to play well, this match-up could prove very important for seedings in the conference tournament. · 
"We play our season one game at a time," Clark stat­ed. "Hight now, our first thing is to find a way to get into Big East tournament, because we didn't get them last year." 
The Irish kickoff their three-game Fall Break schedule at 7 p.m. Saturday at Alumni Field against Boston College. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 


Friday, October 19, 2001 page 25
The Observer . SPORTS 

WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish destroy Wildcats 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team scored seven times in the first 11 minutes on the way to a 9-1 halftime lead and a 15-4 win over the Northwestern \Vildcats in fall exhibition action at Moose Krause Stadium on Wednesd~y night. 
Junior Danielle Shearer and sophomore Kate Marotta each scored three goals while Natalie Loftus Angela Dixon and Lauren Fischer added two apiece in the win. 
The win was the first of the fall for the Irish who will play host to Duquesne University on Saturday, Oct. 20 in a 9 a.m. game at Moose Krause Stadium. 
The Irish scored the first seven goals of the game with Meredith Simon and Loftus scoring 10 seconds apart at 28:11 and 
28:01 for a 2-0 lead. Dixon got the next two goals at 25:41 and 
22:50 for a 4-0 lead and Kassen Delano Alissa Moser and Shearer made it 7-0 by the game's 11th minute of play. 
Northwestern got its only goal of the half with 8:07 left in the half before Shearer closed out her three-goal half to give the Irish a 9-1 lead going into the intermission. 
The Wildcats scored twice early in the second half to cut the lead to 9-3, but Notre Dame would score six of the game's final seven goals on the way. 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Sorin makes playoffs with 22-6 win 
By JOE HETTLER and JOE 
LINDSLEY 
Sports Writers 

It wasn't pretty, but Sorin got the job done. 
Despite missing players, freezing weather and a muddv field, the Otters defeated a winless St. Ed's ­team 22-6 on Wednesday night to secure a playoff berth in their final regular season game. 
"We played pretty well," said Sorin quarterback Greg Carney. "It was good to come out here on a Wednesday night after not being able to practice and do well." 
Sorin's first score came on the last play of the first quarter when Carney con­nected to wide receiver Tom Doar for a 30-yard touch­down, putting Sorin up 6-0. 
Near the end of the first half St. Ed's mounted their first prolonged drive, mov­ing the ball to Sorin's 15­yard line. But on first down, St. Ed's quarterback Chris Wagner was flushed out of the· pocket and forced to his left. 
Wagner then planted and fired a pass across the field into double coverage. 
Otter middle linebacker Bill Phillips intercepted the pass and raced down the sideline for a 90-yard touchdown to put Sorin up 14-0_. 
Despite this 14-point swing right before halftime, St. Ed's didn't quit and scored in the fourth quarter 

1' C H F. N 

A Celebration ofGreat Taste. 
MISHAWAKA 
5110 Edis.on Lakes Parkway 
219-271-1692 
RESERVATIONS ACCEPTED HOURS: Sunday -Thursday 11 :00 a.m. -10:00 p.m. Friday -Saturday 11:00 a.m. -11:00 p.m. 
on a long 60-yard comple­tion from Wagner to Nick Sciola, cutting the Otters' lead to 14-6. 
But Sorin came right back with a two-yard touchdown run by running back Dave Fiourni. putting Sorin ahead to stay, 22-6. 
Now that they're in the playoffs, Sorin looks to take advantage of this opportuni­ty. 
"A lot of people are start­ing to catch on 
lenge. 
"They ran on us a lot more than we thought they we thought they would [based on whatJ they had done the previous week," said Fisher captain Ray Aftandilians. 
Freshman star Tom Gorman's touchdown after a five yard run on the Green Wave's first drive put Fisher up 6-0. They failed to make the two-point conversion. 
Zahm 

and learn what had some
·:4 lot ofpeople are
they are sup­troubles 
posed to do," starting to catch on and from the 
said Carney. learn what they are start. On "We're de fi­fourth
supposed to do. ,,
nitely going to play of add some stuff game, a because we Greg Carney Z a h m have a week to defensive
Sorin quarterback
start thinking of new plays." 

St. Ed's co-captain Nick Sciola feels that the season was an overall positive experience despite not win­ning any games. 
"It was our last game and we left it all out on the field," said Sciola. 
"Obviously without victo­ries its tough to say we all loved every second of it, but it was a successful all aroun·d season." 
Fisher 14, Zahm 6 

The Fisher Green Wave continued its s·urge towards Notre Dame Stadium and the interhall football cham­pionship as they beat Zahm 14-6 Thursday. thus adding another win to their unblemished record. 
But it was still a chal-
COME TO PAPA 
FOR DINNER 
Join us for dinner and enjoy generous portions of Italian entrees and pastas like: 
• 
Shimp Farfalle 

• 
Chicken Parmesan 

• 
Salmone alla Griglia 

• 
Sizzlelini® 

• 
Chicken Scallopini 

• 
Shrimp Ravioli 


And remember, Papa recommends that you complement your meal with out delicious appetizers, desserts. and wines. 
Fantastico! 
end dis­located his knee. 
On Zahm's opening drive,· they gained about 55 yards, but failed to put the ball in the end zone. A few plays later, the Zahmbies scored, but failed to make the con­version. At the half, the game was tied at six, and a win seemed within reach for either team. 
Gorman came through again during the third quar­t e r , s c o r i n g h.i s s e con d touchdown of the game. The Green Wave proceed to complete the two-point con­version, putting the score at 14-6. 
"He was just awesome, all day long," linebacker Aftandilians said. of Gorman. "The game ball definitely "Yent to him. He 
caught everything we threw at him." 
The Green Wave's defense again proved to be the team's strongest point. 
"[Zahm] kept trying to get the big pass, but it wasnat working,"Aftandilians said. 
Although the muddy con­ditions of the field almost assisted Zahm in scoring again. 
During the fourth quarter, Fisher's punter slipped dur­ing the mud and conse­quently the ball only trav­eled 10 yards. The Zahmbies took over on the Fisher forty, but the Green Wave defensive prevented any potential damage to their undefeated season. 
"Our defense came up big. [Zahm] went all four downs," Aftandilians said. "Our defense is huge. For the first time our secondary was tested. They definitely showed they could do it." 
Fisher will play Keenan in the first round of the play­offs, and while the Green Wave is riding on momen­tum from its perfect record, it is not letting the success go to its head. 
"We need to work on improving our offense and working together to play more as a team. We just need to get better at what we 're doing," Aftandilians said. 
"We have a good plan. and we just need to keep work­ing on it." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu and Joe Lindsley at Lindsley.l@nd.edu. 


Nove.mbe.r t, s-10 pm $5.oo pe.r pe.rson Bendit-Woods 'Par~ \Z.e-fre5hment5 ~ Tran5portation wi\\ be provided 



Fri<lav, Ocrober 19, 2001 
' .

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS . 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING GOLF 
Spartaris invade Rolfs tonight 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE Spores \'(' rir.:r 
S1waking in orw morP dual nwet beforp !'all brr'ak. tlw Irish S\.vim­ming and diving team will face off against thP \tichigan State Spartans tonight at Holt's A.qualir Center. 
\taintaining forus will be the key for tlw 1-0 Irish. (~specially coming off a w1~Pk of midterms. said !wad roach Bailev \\'eathers. 
"\\'e have· to bP focused enough to maintain control." \\'eathers said. "I don't think it should be supPr-hard for us. as long as V,t'·re smart about what \\'P • re doing and WP· re focusNL" 

The Irish should have tlw competi­tive advantage over \tichigan State. who will diVf~ into the pool for its first competition tonight. The Spartans haVf' only competed in t\vu exhibition meets so far this season. \\'hile the Irish have already chalked victories over Pittsburgh and over \' six teams at the \otro Dame Relavs. 


"It's definitPly an advantage," s·aid senior co-captain \taureen Hillt-'nmeyer. "\\'<" know where our team stands. and we·ve had the chance to get some races under our belt." 
Senior Kelly Becking will go up against tvvo Spartan Big Ten top fin­ishers in the backstroke events. Seniors Ashley Baldock and junior Katie Duncomb lead the Spartan swimmers lead the Spartan s,vim­mers in the backstroke. Supporting Hecking, sophomore Danielle Hulick, freshman Kristen Peterson and sophomore Jessica Roberts will even <Jut the Irish backstroke corps. 
"We feel pretty comfortable with [Heckingl," ·weathers said. Butterlly will also be a test for the Irish, going up against Spartan 
I 
,i 
-I 
' 
\/ 
,J
,( . 
( 
~ 
I 
I 
I 
I 
! 
I 

senior Ildiko Sezelky. Sophomore Lisa Garcia and senior Amy Deger \Vill swim both the 100-yard and 200-yard butterfly events for Notre Dame. 
The Irish diving squad, led by All­American Heather Mattingly, will also face a test against Spartan diver Carly \Veiden. \Veiden was the top Big Ten finisher in 2001. 
Tonight's meet marks the first time the lrish meet Michigan State in a ·dual meet during \\leathers' tenure at Notre Dame. Michigan State, under first-year coach Jim Lutz. will be ready for the matchup, 

LARGEST SELECTION OF COSTUMES IN THE AREA 
DISCOUNTS lOo/t) -25% 
BURNS COSTUME RENTAL 
Halloween Hours 332 \V. Mishawahi Ave. Mon & Tues 9:00-6:00 Mishawaka, IN 46545 WeJ, Thurs, FriJay 9:00-9:00 \219) 2 59-4807 Phone Saturdav 9:00-5:00 E~~hil Address Burnsrenr@aol.com 
Weathers said. 
. "They'll be ready to swim fast," \>Veathers said. "It's a pretty signifi­cant rivalry for a lot of our sports, and to some extent, they may be more excited with it being their first meet." 
After tonight's meet, the team will travel to South Florida for a week of training and compete against Florida Atlantic Tuesday. Tonight's meet begins at 7:30 p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gil10843@saintmarys.edu. 
Irish to compete at final tourney 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sporn Writer 

The weatlwr is beginning to turn cold and nasty. and soon it will bP tinw for thP '.\otre Danw men's golf team to put thP dubs away. That is. at least with r<'spect to playing in golf tournanwnts. 
After an eighth place finish at th<' Xavier Invitational t\vo wPeks ago. the Irish ;up hoping that continw~d improvements sinc1' tlwn will lead to a top finish in the final tournament of t}wir fall season. The Irish will comp<>te at th" Tillinghast Invitational !\tondav and T1wsdav in Srarsdah~. New York. · • 
The tournament is hostt•d bv St. Johnf1s University, and the frish are (~xpP~'.ting much of the same competition tlH'Y have faced in their previous tournaments. 
The field includes :-..;orthwcstern, >Javv. Providence College, Boston College. Hutgers. ar1d Michigan. 
"Hopefully we can finish up tlwre in tlrn top fow places," said senior Stf'vti Ratav. who finislwd fourth for the Irish at tlw Xavfer Invitational. That was his best performance for tlw Irish this season at't<•r leading the team all of' last vnar. 
Ratay believes :\'otre Damp's confid1:nct~ lm'Pi has begun to increase on the links. 
."It's better, but we're not bubbling ovPr with confidence. We can start playing a little bettPr," Ratay said. 
The Irish are looking forward to play the Tillinghast Course, which, according to Hatav. is nicest course they have played this fall. • 
"It's an awesome course," he said. The line-up for the Irish has not vet been final­ized. • 
Despite \Vho reprnsents the Irish, though. after two weeks of inaction, and with no other tourna­ments in sight until February, Notre Dame is excited about next week's chance to prow• them­selves. 
"We're ruady to go," said Hatay. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at Lindsley. l@nd.edu. 


You Survive and Will Continue To... But Returning After October Break May Be Hard 
ND Students From NYC &Vicinity: Support Each Other And Share Your Reactions 
Wednesday October 31st 4:00-5:15 Foster Room Lafortune 

Sponsored by UCC & Student Government Info: Call Len Hickman or Wendy Settle at 631-7336 UCC web page: http://www.nd.edu/~ucc 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

**STUDENTS ALWAYS FREE !!** 
·ocl'e ·20  VSe 
.  .  ..  
@  7e80·P~  (1J  

* Free rfilf{._r.J:jgn_., __·:iil Pizzo while supplies Jost!
... 
o.-.-·u.:·r ln~r-,:-·dieov, · 
H,~tH:r Pl:,:;,'..} 

and ~a_pa V;no'a 
~~ ~~ 


Friday, October 19, 200 I 
The Observer . TODAY 


TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 

BILL AMEND
FOXTROT 
WHERE HAVE 

So YoU WANTED YOU BEEN? I WENT oVER 
To BE A GooD HOPING To CATCH To MARCUS' 
FRtEND ANO
\ 

HELP HIM SE ABLE To TASTE FEEL BETTER? THAT VE&GIE~RAIN -../ GLOP 'YOU'RE Coote­
HOUSE. HE'S


Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

58 After 34-Down, an order to a chiropractor? 
60 Chutzpah 
61 Husband of Bathsheba 
62 Fast sport 63 Some are electric 
64 Trimming targets 65 Load 
DOWN 1 Mao 
contemporary 2 Almost forever 3 After 34-Down, 
an order to an arrowsmith? 4 Ones who might say, "God, no!"? 5 Mouthed off 
6 Neighbor of Man. 7 Modulars, e.g. 
8 Bolivian capital 
Puzzle by Cathy Mlllhauser 9 High-pH 
30 Pianist Gilels et 44 Periods of rain, 51 Sidle 10 Plots, in a way al. often 
52 Picture of 11 Fulminate health?
31 It's catching 46 Moors 12 Fiend 53 Prefix with com
34 See 17-and 48 Half a comedy 13 Cig duo 55 Hence
58-Across and 18 Golf champ Els 3-and 29-Down 49 Computer 56 Misrepresent acronym
22 Oodles 35 Kind of minister 59_Kan 25 Strong string 
38 October honoree 26 Hatch from Utah Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
39 Annual El Paso

27 Make are available by touch-tone phone: 
events 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute) . 

29 After 34-Down, 
41 Miss's equal

an order to an Annual subscriptions are available for the 
E.P.A. 42 "The Hobbif best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 administrator hero Baggins years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
page 27 
----====-~--============================ 
B B RYAN
EFUDDLED AND EMUSED CUNNINGHAM 

"I'm just a little concerned because the semester is half way over and you're still an idiot." 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON nus DAY: John Lithgow, Omar Gooding, Jennifer Holliday, John Le Carre, Evander Holyfield 
Happy Birthday: You are insightful, but must remain confi­dent in your abilities to achieve your goals. Take time to center and reassure yourself. You need an outlet that will satisfy your desire to do something special or unique. Your numbers: 3, 15, 22, 23, 41, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
This is a perfect day to make ch~nges to your h~:ne or_ your­self. Check into legttimate invest­ments offered by individuals or organizations. Cash in an invest­ment that has not been making any gains. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You need a break. Your temper has been short and you're getting angry over trivial matters. Blam­ing everyone else doe~n•t _chai-:ge the reality that you re in dire need of some rest. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Get your own work done and forget about what everyoni; else is doing. Colleagues will not take kindly to you telling them what to do. Avoid becoming involved in others' personal affairs, or in the end you'll be blamed. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Get together with friends. Shar­ing thoughts will shed some light on your situation and you'll feel more confident about the deci­sions ahead. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): 
Changes at home will be diffi~t to adjust to, but everyone will benefit from the warm atmos­phere you've c-r:ated. Your ge1;1­erosity and hospitable nature will be appreciated. 00000 
Birthday Baby: Your drive pushes you to follow your hopes and dreams. You'll take on the world without a second thought. You are loyal committed and forthright about your beliefs. • 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvtce.com eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) ti 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Problems with colleagues may cause setbacks, but if you do your job and refuse to be drawn into arguments, you'll end up looking 
good.00LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
Concentrate on your work. Lovers will interfere with your productivity. Confusion will result unless you sort out what you do and don't believe. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You won't take no for an answer today. Your determined nature may be hard on others, but your forcefulness will persuade every­one to follow your lead. 000 
SAGrITA.RlUS (Nmt 22.-Dec. Z1): 
You may end up being the topic of conversation if you aren't care­ful talking about personal prob­lems. It's time to discuss yo~r problems with the person who 1s causing them. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Take a positive stan~ an~ make a worthwhile contribution to a charity group that you believe in, and you'll enhance your re(uta­tion. Your good deed wil cast you in a a favorable light when you run for a position soon. 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
If you try to take on too much all at once, nothing will be acco~­plished. Problems with family will occur if you have been work­ing so hard that you haven't spent much time with them. 
0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
It's time to think of others and something espe_cially ni~e ~or older relatives with some limita­tions. Your ability to relate to~­dren will dose the generation 

gap.00 .. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Greek's sixth 5 "King Cotton" 
composer 10Wax 14 Knee-slapper 15 Void 16 Road condition? 17 After 34-Down, 
an order to a witch? 19 Leeds's river 20 Leads (in) 21 Stomped 23 Mozart article 24 Psalms interjection 25 On the main deck 28 It may be under your tongue 32 Dropped a line 33 Violent struggle 
36 Med. care group 37 Tennessee's state flower 38 Shoe sole material 39 Number after cinco 40 Palindromic diarist 41 Game with a 
40-card deck 42 Rally creators 43 Call for 45 Like fan-tan and 
tangrams 47 Feather in Juan's cap? 50 Italy's Isola 
d'_ 51 They're polar 54 Residences 57 Brandenburg 
trio 


Campus Sports 
. 
ND Golf, p. 26 


. 
ND Swimming, p. 26 

. 
lnterhall Football, p. 25 

. 
ND Women's Soccer, p. 24 




O
THE Campus Sports
BSERVER 
. 
Men's Soccer, p. 24 

. 
SMC Soccer, p. 21 

. 
SMC Volleyball, p. 18 



Friday, October 19, 2001 
SMC SOCCER 

Turnin 


Arrival ofBobby Johnston brings respect for once-struggling program 

By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
In early November 2000, things were looking bleak. There had only been three wins all season, team confidence was low, and things didn't seem to be getting any better. Then, to top things off, the coach left. 
"A lot of things were up in the air and it was kind of hard to have faith that we could have this new coaching staff come in and a freshman class that was extraordi­nary," junior captain See Also Heather Muth said. "Belles don't get "Everybody was a little 
a break"
bit doubtful." 

In the last year, things page21 have turned around. With the season not yet over, the Belles have already racked up five wins, added two more near wins and taken a step towards becoming a real con­ference contender. In the wake of a very disappointing year, the Saint Mary's soc­cer program is on the up swing, looking to be a winning team. 
"We want to be a champion team," first­year head coach Bobby Johnston said. 
Where they were 

In the early 1990's, the Saint Mary's soc­
,. 
cer program was one of the top Division III
'' 
soccer programs in the area. The Belles proudly produced three All-Americans and often found themselves in playoffs in the 
ND TENNIS 

Tennis teams meet in battle before the war 
t ':\ 
. Notre Dame takes on USC in first men's dual match of fall season 

By RACHEL BIBER Sports Writer 
With the first dual match-up of the season finally here, the Irish men's ten­nis team gets to test out its lineup and see how they will contend. 
Notre Dame will play host to the USC Trojans tonight, and look to start the season by slating one in the win col­umn. 
The Irish will most likely go with the same lineup that has appeared in tour­nament play of the fall season, with senior Javier Taborga topping the sin­gles lineup, followed by Casey Smith, Aaron Talarico, and Luis Haddock­Morales. However, the order is not set 
Indiana area. 
Since they joined the MIAA, however, have found more disappointment than success. At the end of last season they were tied for last place with Olivet College after winning three games all season. At the beginning of the season, the Belles were unsure about themselves and the program. 
"At the beginning we were trying to be optimistic for the season but we still had doubt'i," Muth said. 
Both mentally and physically, the team was not where it wanted to be. After suf­fering several disappointing losses, focus and confidence were low. 
"They were probably not the strongest mentally, coming off of a difficult season in many aspects," Johnston said. 
Muth added that the team, although tal­ented, had not developed their skills as much as they wanted to. 
"I think we have a very talented group of players on our team, but at the beginning of the season we needed to brush up on skills," said Muth. 
Then, late last spring, Bobby Johnston, a Washington D.C. native who had been coaching high school soccer, was hired to replace the previous head coach, Jason Milligan. Milligan had resigned after the season ended. When Johnston came in, he was going to turn the team around. 
"I didn't come here to be an average program," Johnston said. " ... I have the mentality that this is not a glorified intra-
see SOCCER/page 21 


e tide 


in stone, and the crowd shouldn't be surprised if changes are made. 
Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss is planning on evaluating a variety of fac­tors in making final lineup decisions. 
'Tm going to look at all of the fall results and factor that in," Bayliss said. "Whoever has done the best -I'll try look at who they've played, whothey've beaten, who they've lost to. It'll be mostly the same people, but not neces~ sarily the same order." 
A shakeup could come in response to the disappointing singles performances by Taborga and Talarico in the recent 
·Intercollegiate Tennis Association All­American Championships. Both Taborga and Talarico were knocked out in the qualifying rounds of the event after each held leads against his oppo­nent. 
Regardless, the top four in the Irish 
see MEN/page 23 

. Irish, Trojans both competed in women's national finals last year 
By COLIN BOYLAN Sports Writer 
There won't be any time wasted when the Notre Dame women's ten­nis team faces off against the high­ly-touted USC Trojans today. 
The women's first dual-match play competition will be a challenge as they face a USC squad that finished last year ranked No. 8 in the nation and returns all of their top starters. 
Head coach Jay Louderback is excited about the prospect of start­ing off the year against such a tough team. 
"It's always good to get a feel for the top teams in the nation," 
Louderback said. "I think its going to be a great match." 
Past m·atches against USC have proved to be close and competitive. Two years ago, the Irish faced off against the Trojans twice, narrowly losing both contests 5-4. 
Notre Dame always features a number of players from the Southern California area, which should make the match-ups even more interesting. Nina Vaughn, Caylan Leslie, Lindsey Green and Michelle Hamilton all hail from the Southern California region. 
"A lot of these girls have known each other for years and they've played against each other growing up. They are a good team to play because you always know the matches will be fair," said Louderback. 
see WOMEN/page 23 

. Tennis vs. USC, Friday, 3 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. Football vs. USC, Saturday, 1:30 p.m.

SPORTS 
onHne ctassifieds 

. Men's Soccer vs. Boston College, Saturday, 7:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Women's Soccer at Connecticut, Sunday, 1 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 
.. 

,_ ::, ~
,~··-'\ 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 19, 2001 
ND, USC meet in 'biggest game' of 2001 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 

The Southern Cal-Notre Dame series has included 18 national championship teams, 11 Heisman Trophy winners and the beginning of Notre Dame's tradition of wearing green jer­seys for important games. 
But with this year's game fea­turing two teams with losing records and neither team ranked in the top 25, it is easy to understand why Sports Illustrated called this series the "most overrated college football rivalry." 
Neither team has been ranked in the top 10 at the time of the game since 1989. USC hasn't won a national title in 23 years while the Irish have been shut out for the last 13. In terms of national title implica­tions, this game has become meaningless. 
But that doesn't mean the game has lost any importance for the players and coaches. 
"This is a 7 5-year tradition," said Irish offensive tackle Kurt Vollers, whose is from Southern California. "Even if both teams are below .500, this is a feature game all over the nation. That speaks for itself in that we can be under .500 and everyone still wants to watch. There is too much tradition in the past to over look it this week." 
For Southern Cal fans, there are only two games on the schedule that really matter: UCLA and Notre Dame. 
"There are a lot of people who say we don't care what you do on the rest of your schedule as long as you beat Notre Dame and UCLA," Southern Cal first­year head coach Pete Carroll said. 
Irish head coach Bob Davie, who has bHen involved in other intense rivalries at previous coaching positions, said nothing· can compare to the pageantry and tradition of Notre Dame­USC. 
"There's just some pageantry that you don't have any where else," said Davie who has coached in other noted rivalry games such as Texas A&M­Texas and Pittsburgh-Penn State. "This is an amazing con­trast. It's Notre Dame and USC. And the traditions. and the Midwest and the West, South Bend and Los Angeles ... that bright sunshine back there against those dreary east coast or Midwest days." 
While both teams have very different backgrounds, they both desperately need a win Saturday to stay in bowl con­tention. USC at 2-4 and Notre Dame at 2-3 can ill afford another loss if they hope to qualify for a postseason game. 
"We're a football team that got in a hole early in the year," Davie said. "We still in that hole. We're scratching and clawing to get up out of it." 
While Southern Cal's hole is a little deeper the Notre Dame's, the Trojans could very easily be 6-0. All four losses have come by a combined 14 points. Both No. 7 Oregon and No. 11 Washington beat Southern Cal with last second field goals. The Trojans also lost to No. 12 Kansas State by just four and Stanford by five. 

MEG KROENEMhe Observer 
USC tailback Malaefou MacKenzie runs between Notre Dame's Cedric Hilliard, left, and Ryan Roberts during the lrish's 38-21 win against the Trojans last season. 
"I look at USC and I see a to put together an impressive and give them a good football team that's played really good performance but there is no game," he said. "This is the football teams this year," Davie better time to make a statement biggest game we've had." said. "They were in positions to than in a big rivalry game like win in every one of those Notre Dame. games." "I want to make sure we Contact Mike Connolly at 
Carroll said his team has yet come out and play really hard Connolly.28@nd.edu 




Marcie Bomhack Casey Buclutajf Darrell Campbell Matt Carroll Jocelyn Cerrito Andre Crompton Chris Fallon Gavin Ferlic Volleyball Rowing Football Men's Basketball Cheerkading Mens Fencing Men's IAcroue Men's Golf 

Jason Fitzpatrick Lauren Fuchs Ryan Gillis Lk Grow Jennifer Handley Jeneka Joyce Neil Komadoski Kathtzt:Lam Men's Swimming Womens Golf Football Women's Track & Field Cro$s Country Women~ Bas~tbal/. Hockey Wf>men s lAcrosse 

Alexis Madrid Destanie Milo Carrie Nixon Devon Prescod Quill Redwine Steve Stanley Javier Taborga Nina Vaughan Softball Womens Fencing Women's Swimming Men's Soccer Men's Track & Field Baseball. Men's Tennis Women'i. Tennis 
The Student-Athlete Advisory Council (SAAC) is comprised ofrepresenta­tiv_esfrom each ofthe 26sports, cheerkading squads and student managers groups. The SAAC serv_es as a luzison between student-athletes and Notre Dame Department ofAthletics administration. Itprovides suggestions and feedback on issuespertinent to student-aJ:hleres, initiates anapa,rticipat:es in community service projects and works to improve relmionsbips among stu­dent-athletes, the generalstudentpopulation, faculty and staff. 

Amy~rner Luke ~tson Greg 'Weber Women~ Soccer Cross Country Managers 


Friday, October 19, 2001 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
A true student-athlete 
Senior linebackeremerges as a leader on the field and has outstanding grade point average 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sptms Editor 
Bob Davie had everything to offer Tyreo Harrison when the Irish head coach traveled to Sulphur Springs, Texas in January, 1998. Everything, lhat is, except Texas' warm weather. 
A few weeks before Davie's 
visit, Texas A&M entered the 
recruiting race to land Ilarrison. 
R.C. Slocum, the Aggies' head coach and Davie's best friend, came to the Harrison house and told Tyreo and his father, Myron, of the 20-below zero tempera­tures and snow that the younger Harrison would face if he left his home state. Slocum asked Harrison what he would do for clothes. 
Davie accepted the challenge. Sitting in the Harrison living room, Davie tried to explain "true" South Bend weather. 
"I said, 'You know what, you .can't believe everything [Slocum! tells you," Davie said. "I said 'Do you have a television?' he said, 'Yeah. It's in the bedroom."' 
So Davie walked into the bed­room and turned on the Weather Channel, the whole time worried that South Bend would be color­coated deep purple, meaning the town was frozen. Instead, the screen showed bright green in Northern Indiana. 
"It was about 45 degrees." Davie said. "It was like a heat wave came through there." 
So Davie looked at his recruit. 
"Come up here." Davie told HarrL,;;on back then as he pointed to South Bend on the map. "You tell me right now, in late January, this is as bad as it ever gets. This is the worst time of the year. What's the temperature in South Bend right now?" 
"It's 46 degrees," Harrison responded. 
Slocum's ploy was thwarted. Soon Harrison came up to visit Notre Dame and found that he, too, had been bamboozled. 
"I saw more snow on my visit here than I had seen in my whole life," Harrison remembered. "If you add it all together, I'd never seen snow that much in my life." 
He saw more than just snow on that visit. Harrison, who then planned to attend medical school after college, saw a chance to excel in an environment con­ducive to both learning and play­ing football. 
"It was kind of crazy seeing all that snow and seeing how horri­ble it was at the same time know~ ing you couldn't pass up the opportunity I had to come here," he said. 
So Harrison came to Notre Dame. Nearly four years later he is in his second year as a starter as Notre Dame's strong side line­backer. He also has excelled in the classroom, posting a 3.5 grade point average la,;;t spring. 
Harrison describes Notre Dame as the place that ha,;; changed hL'> life. But still, sometimes the harsh South Bend winter can make the Texas native question his deci­sion. 
Tuesday night Harrison walked out of lfosburgh Ubrary towards Notre Dame Stadium to find sleet pouring from the sky, wind and a tc>mpPrature in the high 30s. 
up close & personal 
WITH TYREO HARRISON 

Tyreo Harrison 
birthdate: May 15, 1980 hometown: Sulphur Springs, 
Texas 
major: finance favorite pre-game food: fruit worst item in the dining hall: 
stuffed bell peppers 
aword to describe me on the field: old-school the defensive player who will sur­prise people this year is: me favorite music groups: all my CDs have been stolen favorite television show: I don't watch too much TV 
"This is horrible," Harrison yelled as he picked up his pace. "This weather is the worst stuff I've ever felt in my life. I don't know what I was thinking [when I came here]. I don't know what I'm doing. Thi'i is a monsoon." 
The student 
Sulphur Springs, Texas is one of those college towns right out of the movie "Varsity Blues" 
The town's activities revolve around football. The town's mood depends on the team's record at Sulphur Springs High. 
"If you're a football player and you're good, you've got it good in that town," Harrison said. "Everywhere you go, everybody knows you. Everybody's congratu­lating you on your game. That's all there is." 
He wanted out of Sulphur Springs. So he decided to become a professional. 
"There aren't many big build­ings, you don't see very many businessmen," Harrison said. "Most of the people you do see that are doing well are doctors or dentists or something like that. That was the only thing that was a sign of a way to make it out." 
So Harrison came into Notre Dame intent on studying science for four years before attending medical school. 
"I took one long, frustrating semester of chemistry and labs," Harrison said. "I just realized it wa'in't for me." 
So Harrison moved his goals from the examining room to the boardroom and entered the Mendoza College of Bm-;iness. The choice to switch schools was an easy one, but the choice of a major proved difficult. After con­sidering accounting, he settled on finance. 

"It felt like everything that I needed," Harrison said. "Even if I wasn't going to have a career in finance, I wanted to know this stuff. The more I got into it, the more interested I was in it and the more I felt that it was a skill that after I learned it would be some­thing valuable that I could offer other people or my employer." 
After Harrison conquered the challenge of fmding a major, the next step was gaining the respect of professors and classmates, some of whom saw Harrison as just another athlete taking up space in the classes that they took seriously. 
"Playing football I know a lot of student'i sit in cla,;;s and ba,;;ically say to themselves, 'I don't have to listen to thL,;; now. I can go to my room and read this later,"' Harrison said. "I can't waste any time during class. I have to spend that time as best I can trying to gather everything that the profes­sor is saying." 
Harrison also has taken an interest in theology and philoso­phy, subjects he has always thought about, eve.n in high school. 
"When things would get too much for me I would go to the country and just think," Harrison said. "I love that piece of mind that I get from that. I guess from being that way my entire life just carries over into a theological, philosophical type of mind." 
The athlete 
Those walking past the neatly dressed Harrison on Notre Dame's campus would hardly guess that the senior describes himself as an old-school, dirty linebacker. 
But that's what Ilarrison L,;;. He loves to get on the ground, get his 

uniform dirty. Sometimes before 
games he even goes on the field, 
puts his hand in the dirt and grabs 
a chunk. 
"Just thinking about the way I 
was raised out in the country, get­
ting down and dirty is something I 
like," Harrison said. "I've wrestled 
with bulls." 
When he arrived at Notre 
Dame, he got to wrestle with 
opponent'i. 
While many fn~shmen come to 
Notre Dame and sit out their first 
season, Harrison was thrown 
right into the fray in the fall of 
1998. He got into seven games at 
linebacker, including the 1999 
Gator Bowl. Harrison al,;;o logged 
time on special teams. 
"The fact that I got to play line­
backer and not just special teams 
my freshman year meant a lot to 
me," Harrison said. "It proved a 
lot to myself that I was able to do 
this. Going out there as a fresh­
man really let me know what was 
expected of me and by the time I 
graduated I had a long way to go 
to reach the level of play that I 
needed to be at." 
But the most valuable lesson 
Harrison received his freshman 
year came from playing behind 
current NFL player Bobby 
Howard, who Harrison describes 
as the most impressive person 
he's ever :net. 
"After Bobby left I didn't have 
anything left to learn about a 
leader," Harrison said. "He pretty 
much summed it up to me. He 
was definitelv a leader. He was 
the kind of leader that I can follow 
-and I don't think that I'm a fol­
lower, I'm not very good at follow­
ing." 
His sophomore season, Harri.-.;on still played a reserve role, this , time behind senior Ronnie Nicks. Harrison played in £Wery game 
.,_ 
that season, but was still learning what it took to be a starter. He describes himself as impatient, and had a habit of sneaking up to the line of scrimmage when he thought the opponent would run. Harrison also had to learn to con­centrate on playing consistently, rather than just making a few big hits. 
"I went from wanting respect from everybody I hit to the point of realizing that I had to make plays," he said. "I couldn't just hit a blocker as hard a,;; I could and think I did something." 
He moved into the starting line­up his junior year logging 233:06 and finishing the season with 46 tackles and five sacks. 
This fall, Harrison. whose hard hits often resulted in back and neck injuries, has concentrated on making hit'i the right way, think­ing on the field and becoming a leader. He feels the best way to lead is by example, just as Howard did. 
"The thing that I did the most to be a leader was try to get better," he said. "To be the best leader you can be is to be the best player you can be. The best player you can be is shown by example. I knew to be a leader I had to play better." 
So far this season, he's done that with 44 tackles through five games, including five for a loss. Harrison also posted a 3.8 GPA while taking three classes over the summer and hopes to finish with a 3.5 this fall. 
He's conquered the starting role. He's conquered his acade­mics. Now, he only wishes he could conquer the weather. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at Arnstadter. l@nd.edu. 


Friday, October 19, 2001 
page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 2-3 AP: Unranked Coaches: Unranked 
Bob Davie fifth season at Notre Dame career record: 32-22 at Notre Dame: 

NOTRE DAME 2001 Schedule  
Sept. 8 at Nebraska -L Sept. 22 Michigan St. -L Sept. 29 at Texas A&M -L Oct. 6 Pittsburgh -W Oct. 13 W. Virginia -W Oct. 20 USC Oct. 27 of Boston College Nov. 3 Tennessee Nov. 17 Navy Nov. 24 at Stanford Dec. 1 at Purdue  


f\DTFEOAM: 
CfF88: 
TAILBACK 
32-Howard 
12-Grant 
LEFT TACKLE 
78-alack 
62-Ro bin 
LEFT GUARD 
79-Mahan 
QUARTERBACK 57-Gitns · 7-Hollday 
10-lov; 

CORNERBACK 
42-ltiwd 
30-Arbet REE 

AFETY 
-Simmons 
HIU 
STRONG 
SAFETY 
43-Polamalu 
27-Leacll 
. , ,. -' . 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  
1  Jared Clark  QB  
2  Carlos Pierre-Antoine ILB  
2  Dan Novakov  QB  
3  Amaz Battle  FL  
4  Justin Smith  FS  
5  Ron Israel  SS  
6  David Givens  FL  
7  Carlyle Holiday  QB  
8  Lorenzo Crawford  FL  
8  Matt Krueger  FL  
9  Jason Beckstrom  CB  
10  Matt LoVecchio  QB  
10  Ryan Krueger  QB  
12  Tony Fisher  TB  
13  Nick Setta  K/P  
14  Gary Godsey  TE  
15  Clifford Jefferson  CB  
16  Abram Elam  SS  
17  Joey Hildbold  P  
18  Ronnie Rodamer  SE  
19  Glenn Earl  FS  
20  Gerome Sapp  SS  
21  Javin Hunter  SE  
.22  Julius Jones  TB,  
23  Chris Yura  TB  
24  Chad DeBolt  ILB  
25  Ryan Grant  RB  


32-22 against USC: 2-2 
Ht. 
6-4 
6-3 6-1 6-1 5-11 6-1 6-3 6-3 5-10 5-10 
5-10 6-4 
5-9 6-2 5-11 6-6 5-9 6-0 5-10 6-4 6-1 
6-0 
6-0 
5-10 6-0 
6-0 
6-1 
Wt. 
230 
241 215 210 197 212 212 218 190 
175 
186 205 186 226 
175 
270 
176 
210 188 
210 210 
214 191 
210 
225 
202 
198 
YR 
SO 
SR 
JR SR SR 
SR SR SO SO SO JR SO SR 
SR JR JR 
SR SO JR SO JR 
JR SR JR JR SR 
FR 

RIGHT TACKLE 
75-Vollers 
63-Curtln 
FLANKER 
ti-Givens 
SO-Jenkins 
OUTSIDE UNEBACKE 
46-Grooteg 
,·. · oaFENS!V 59-Prosser 
END ,' , ~< 
:'
25-Ford '' ·-· 
29-Cash '--' 
USC
98-Wardlow 22-Rideaux ·· 
DEFENSE 

QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
= 
26 Garron Bible CB ·5-10 191 SO 28 Donald Dykes FS 5-11 195 SR 30 Rocky Boiman OLB 6-4 240 SR 31 Dwayne Francis FS 6-0 198 SR 32 Terrance Howard TB 6-1 195 SR 33 Cdurtney Watson ILB 6-1 232 JR 34 Vontez Duff CB 5-11 192 SO 
3.'.'i f>Avld Miller K 5-11 208 SR 35 Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 175 SR 36 Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 249 SR 37 Dwight El!ick CB 5-11 170 FR 
I.II

'Ill Preston Jackson CB 5-9 176 SO 38 Eric Nelson FB 6-0 225 SR 
:E

,er:39 Brandon Hoyte !LB 6-0 219 PR 
40 JaS(m Murray FB 6-1 260 SR 
Q

41 Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 240 SO 42 Shane Walton CB 5-11 186 SR 
I.II 

44 Grant Irons DE 6-5 275 SR 
0::: 

45 Matt Sarb ss 5-11 200 SR 
t­

46 Corey Mays !LB 6-1 234 FR 
o 

47 Mike McNair FB 6-0 237 SR 
z

48 Justin Tuck OLB 6-5 215 FR 49 Derek Curry !LB 6-3 228 SO 50 Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 290 JR 51 Tyreo Harrison ILB 6-2 242 SR 52 Jeff Faine C 6-3 296 JR 52 Mark Mitchell OLB 5-10 200 SR 53 Jason Halvorson DL 6-2 240 JR 55 Zachary Giles OL 6-4 285 FR 56 John Crowther C 6-2 242 SR 56 Pat Ryan !LB 6-3 231 JR 57 Justin Thomas OLB 6-1 245 JR 59 Brian Dierckman ILB 6-1 250 SR 
(.)

60 Darrell Campbell DT 6-4 296 JR 
t,/J

61 Jesse Desp!intcr LB 6-1 177 so 62 Casey Robin ex..~ 6-7 300 SR 
::, 63 Brennan Curtin OT 6-8 305 JR 64 Jeffrey Campbell DE 6-1 230 SR 65 Sean Milligan 0G 6-4 295 JR 66 JW Jordan C 6-1 275 SR 67 Ryan Gillis ex:; 6-3 296 JR 69 Darin Mitchell OL 6-4 285 FR 70 Jim Molinaro OT 6-6 295 JR 72 Ryan Scarola OG f>..5 308 SR 73 Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 310 FR 75 Kurt Vollers OT 6-7 312 SR 76 John Teasdale OT 6-5 305 SR 77 Greg Pauly DT 6-6 208 SO 78 Jordan Black OT 6-6 318 SR 79 Sean Mahan OT 6-3 292 SR 
-
"'

80 Adam Tibble K 5-11 186 SR 
80 Omar Jenkins WR 6-2 180 FR 
"' :::i

81 Jerome Collins OLB 6-4 242 SO 
,er:

82 Bernard Akatu SE 5-10 190 SR 82 Matt Shelton WR 6-1 170 FR 
z 

83 Josh Gentine K/P 5-11 205 JR 
cc 

84 John Owens TE 6-3 260 SR 85 Billy Palmer TE 6-3 265 SO 86 Brendan Hart TE 6-2 255 SO 87 Jonathan Smith WR 6-4 195 SO 88 Carlos Campbell WR 6-1 190 FR 89 Matt Root TE 6-6 225 FR 90 Brian Beidatsch DL 6-4 265 FR 91 Jeff Thumpson DL 6-5 265 FR 92 Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 265 SO 94 Andy Wisne DT 6-3 285 SR 95 Ryan Roberts DE 6-2 262 SR 98 Anthony Weaver DE 6-3 286 SR 99 Jason Sapp DE 6-3 250 SO 
COACHING 


Give Davie credit -he  Holiday keeps looking  Fisher, Jones arid  Since the Irish started  
hasn't given up. He  better and better. for the  Holiday are changing  winning, they haven't  
showed guts last week  second week in a row, he  the course of the season.  thrown the ball much.  
by calling the onside  picked up more than 100  As long as the Irish con­ Holiday has shown he  
kick and by going for it  rushing yards. It doesn't  tinue to emphasize the  can complete the short  
on fourth down four  matter if he·doesn't com­ run, Notre Dame's  pass, but Rogers doesn't  
times. The most impor­ plete the deep pass ­his  offense will be tough to  have enough confidence  
tant thing. though, is  legs are just as effective.  stop. Last week, the  to throw the deep ball  
Davie is trying to gut out  Holiday is also getting  -Irish averaged an  yet. While Holiday's  
a successful season this  valuable confidence as  impressive five yards a  throwing has improved,  
ye~r.  the season goes on.  carry.  he still has work to do.  
Carroll isn't exactly off to  Opponents have been  
a great start in his first  Palmer is highly touted  able to put up big yards  The Trojans have a  
year as a coJlege head  by NFL scouts, saying  on the Trojans ­so far,  strong, experienced sec­ 
coach. While he brings  his mobility and strong  they've given up an  ondary that averages an  
valuable leadership and  arm are ideal character­ average of 175 yards  interecpetion per game.  
experience from his days  istics for an NFL quar­ per game. They also  In all, they do a good job  
with the New England  terback. However, he's  have no big playmakers  containing opposing  
Patriots and the New  thrown nearly as many  on the defensive line,  receiw,rs. However, they  
York Jets, he's quickly  inteceptions (six) as  but Cody, whom the  don't pressure the quar­ 
finding out that college is  touchdowns (seven).  Irish recruited heavily  terback much.  
a differnent world.  last year, is starting.  
While Davie's team finally has some momentum, Carroll's  Palmer might be a good quarterback in the pros, but this is college, not  If the Irish concentrate on running the ball, th~y will dominate ~l!i~cat~gory,  i.th~ 1 p~ i~ te·  
team lost at;;the l~t ser­ .J,heNfL. ~q;liday'$.fe~t­ but if Fisher and.Jutws  de metly s  
pnd tq. Wasbingto'ri;;af d  ~:WJ\~e \~Pi}fo~;•C~ na~ilg  caq) play, they yvill have  the ball earn  
~;e,vsa\4St~,,~•L•iByt tfe fact that they were up  ;faHing§,jbuJ/: ifth~ IrJ.,htall befiind'tiY a lot,  problom$. The ~h ai-e th,~ secon4,. ii ·~: ••· , . . g  that Ca ost resem ish,  
and couldn't hold the lead suggests that Carroll can't put teams  Holiday will be pressed into doing the things he doesn't want to do  tea'.m, USf;i:-Mff" . he ~~·r!Pn;:a~:f:a~~  Kansas· aged 26 p Notre Dam  
away.  pass.  the Trojans.  made the pa ..  


For the Irish to win this game. Holiday must 
Davie has always wondered why USC never plays at perform at his best. Expect 100-plus yards Notre Dame in the cold November weather. But on the ground again and a few key passes to when the Trojans step onto Notre Dame Stadium,
Irish 

push the Irish over the edge. Javin Hunter is the blustery winds and cold temperatures are goingdue for a big game and will reach up and to make them wish they were back in sunnybring down a victory. Setta comes through California. Both passing games will be non-factors in the clutch to finish it off. 
and the Irish running attack with give Notre Dmne
experts 
it's third straight win over the Trojans. 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 Noah Amstadter USC 21 Andrew Soukup FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 sports editor associate sports editor USC 17 


Friday, October 19,2001 page 5 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
· 

USC SPLIT ENO 
2-Kelly
?FFENSE 

SO-Stevenson 

FULLBACK 
28-Landrlgan 
39-Byrd 
TAILBACK ·.~·. . ,.·•·.
.·. 
4-Mc:Cullough · 9-Poston . . , • 
QUARTER 
3.Palmer 
10-Casgel 
RIGHT GUARD 
69-Wllson 
76--McGuire ,, 78-Vander 

' .. 

OUTSIDE C.:~ 
LINEBACKER c. . 
30-Boiman 
81-Collins CORNERBACK 
42.Walton 
9-Beckstrom 

TROJAN RUSHING TROJAN PASSING 
CORNERBACK 
3'•Duff 
15-Jefferson 
FREE 
SAFETY 
28-Dykes 
19-Earl 
STRONG 
SAFETY 
5-lsrael 
20-Sat;p 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

USC 2001 Schedule 
Sept. 1 San Jose St . -W Sept. 8 Kansas State L Sept.. 22 at Oregon -L 
..... 

::~~~:~ 
Oct. 13 Oct. 20 Oct. 27 Arizona Nov. 3 Oregon State Nov. 10 at California Nov. 17 UCLA 

INTANGIBLES 
z 
0 
-I
::a 
'" 
C 
>
3:: 
'" 
C: 
ti) 
(') 
l> 
z 
l> 
!:c 
u, u,­
USC Trojans 
Record: 2-4 AP: Unranked Coaches: Unranked 
Pete Carroll first season at USC career record: 
2-4 
at USC: 
2-4 
against Notre Dame: 0-0 


Roster 
No. 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 13 
14 
15 15 16 17 18 
18 
19 21 22 23 
24 
25 26 27 28 29 20 31 34 35 36 37 37 38 39 40 40 41 41 
42 43 44 45 45 
46 46 47 
48 
49 49 50 51 52 53 54 
55 
56 57 5~ 59 61 
62 
63 64 65 66 67 69 70 71 73 74 75 76 77 
78 
80 
81 
82 
83 
84 
85 
86 
88 
89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 
99 
Name Pos. 
Frank Strong S Kareem Kell WR Carson Palmer QB Sultan McCullough TB DeShawun Hill S Richie Wessman QB Antuan Simmons CB Sandy Fletcher WR Marcell Allmond WR Darrly Poston TB Matt Cassel QB Matt Leinart QB Billy Hart QB John Wall PK David Newbury PK Matt Harris QB David Boler WR Justin Fargas TB Kori Dickerson TE Tommy Huff P FrankCandela . WR Maleefou MacKenzie TB Darrell Rideaux CB 
John Cousins LB Chris Howard TB Lonnie Ford DE Eric Reese CB Jason Leach S Charlie Landrigan FB Chris Cash CB Kevin Arbet CB William Buchanon WR Chad Pierson FB Lee Webb LB Aaron Graham LB David Kirtman TB Marcus Johnson CB Mike Macfillivray . P Sunny Byrd FB Miguel Fletcher TB Matt Lemos CB Bobby Otani LB leffery Hill FB Kris Richard CB Troy Polamalu S Gregg Guenther TE Mike Pollard LB Mark Gomez TB Matt Grootegoed S Forrest Mo7.art WR John Walker CB Kyle Matthews S Chad Cook TE Brim McMullm TB Matt Hayward LB, Henry Wallace LB Aaron Orndorff LB AJ Single C Anthony Daye DE Marvin Simmons LB 
Omar Nazel DE Daniel Pryor DE Austin Jackson LB Chris Porsser LB Alex llottom TE HOITI' Katnik OT Travis Watins OC..~ jot' Boskovich C Jay Bottom DE Eric Torres OT Phillip Eaves OT Zach Wilson 0G Spencer Torgan OC Nate Steinbacher OT Derek Graf cx:; Justin Brown OT Faaesea Mailo OC, Joe McGuire OT Jacob Rogers OT Lenny Vandermade C Steve Stevenson WR Alex Holmes TE 
D. Hale WR Keary Colbert WR Shaun Cody DE Scott Huber TE Ryan Kaiser WR Doyal Butler TE Kolomona Kapanui TE Ryan Nielsen OT Bobby DeMars DE Raymond Tago DE Bernard Riley OT Kenechi Udeze OT Nathan Goodson DE Malcolm Wooldridge OT Lamall Williams DE Jason Wardlow DE Mike Patterson DT 
Ht. 
6-1 
6--0 
6-5 
6-0 
5-11 6-1 
5-10 
6-1 6--0 5-11 6-5 6-6 6-3 5-8 5-9 6-3 6-4 6-1 6-4 6-1 5-8 5-11 5-9 6-2 
5-11 
6-3 5-11 
5-11 
5-11 5-11 5-11 6-4 
6-0 
5-11 6-1 6-1 
5-10 
5-10 6-0 5-11 5-10 6-1 6-0 5-11 
5-10 6-8 6-0 5-9 5-1 
6-1 
6-1 
6-1 
6-4 
5-9 
6-2 
6-1 
(,-! 
6-2 
6-I 
6-1 
t,..5 
h-4 
6-4 
o-2 
6-4 
6-4 
6-3 
<>-4 
6-2 
6-5 
6-6 
6·5 6-1 
6-5 • 
6-4 6-6 6-3 6-5 6-6 6-3 6·2 6-2 6-1 6-1 6-5 6-2 6-1 6-3 6-3 6-5 6-4 6-3 6-3 6-3 6-5 6-2 6-4 6-5 6-2 
Wt. 
220 190 220 195 220 190 195 
190 190 185 220 
220 
200 
175 175 210 205 195 235 215 175 
220 
170 220 
195 260 
210 200 235 170 180 175 
245 245 2.15 
215 175 
195 220 
195 165 215 
220 
190 
210 
250 
22.~ 
195 205 195 185 
185 22.~ 
180 
22.~ 220 
230 265 
2.'iO 
220 
235 
245 
230 
225 220 275 
305 255 215 205 
315 300 
255 300 
285 
310 
325 
300 290 
275 
200 
275 185 
195 255 
240 190 
245 
225 280 
250 315 315 295 265 
30 
270 240 
285 
YR 
SR JR JR JR JR SO 
SO SO JR 
FR FR FR FR SO SR FR FR JR SR SO FR SR JR SR FR SR SR FR SR SR JR FR JR FR 
JR 
FR 
JR 
SR SR JR FR FR 
so 
SR 
JR 
FR 
JR 
SR FR FR FR FR 
SO SO 
SO 
SR 
FR FR JR FR SO JR 
FR 
SO 
SO SO FR SO FR 
50 JR 
JR 
FR 
SO 
JR 
SO 
SR FR SO So 
JR 
SO SO 
SO 
FR 
JR 
SR JR FR SR SR 
JR 
JR FR FR FR FR FR FR 

Roberts has emerged as a strong force on the defensive line. Weaver is wreaking havoc from his defensive end position. While the Irish have been using mostly nickel packages in the past-two games, the linebackers will once again play a significant role.  The secondary has truly distinguished itself in battling a pair of spread offenses. \Valton is ospe­cially good in man-to­man coverage schemes. But_ this week, the Irish will find out how much of the secondary's success was the presence of five and six defensive back.s  Setta has yet to miss an extra point or a field goal this season, and he's shown he can hit field goals from a long way out even if a towel gets in the way. VVhile Hildbold's leg has cooled off, he had one punt last week that landed inside the 5 yard line.  Notre Dame finally has some momentum on its side since the Irish start­ed out 0-3. Two straight wins have given this team more confidence. And if the weather stays cold, that will play into Notre Dame's hands.  
While the Trojans don't  Kelly is definetly Palmer's  
run the ball much - go to receiver. He aver­ MacGillivray isn't the  Carroll does not know  
they only average 97  ages a little under five  world's grnatest punter,  what the Notre Dame­ 
yards a game rushing ­ catches a game. And  but he buries kicks inside  USC rivarly is all about.  
McCullough leads USC in  Palmer does a good job  the 20-yard line a third of  This week he will find  
scoring with six touch­ throwing the baJl in short  the time. The Trojans  out. USC players will  
downs, but he has been  yardage situations. While  don't have any game­ also remember Notre  
injured this week. They  he is averaging 250 pass­ breaking return men, but  Dame's comeback win  
are more effective in  ing yards a game, he is  they get the job done.  two years ago.  
short yardage situations.  turnover prone.  
On paper, Notre Dame should be able to domi­nate USC's offensive line. ,tlqw.eyer, .\'V,~.§J...:}'i,i::gini.a~~¥lt!~q~~~,tstJtttNobody will know \Vhfeh defensive line will show up to play -the one that shut down Pitt or the one that Nebra'>ka humiliated.  was w "Y were playing nd dime packag . lathe in trouble'· e·~ with Palmer's s 1 and USC's quic s.  Setta's foot could J!~,cide this game, and his,~on­sistency gives the ,J:ti,sh the, edge het1~-1'~~.,;1Jt}e Irish _h'avf'\h}g;~Y pQtentia.t, ~h)l:l;tJ,t~J r retun\ units_ ere QJl,"tnefieldir•. . Trd . . . just t'°'. to g . field position.  If the game geJ~ _(Jose, homefield advantage will tip the scale~ in Notre,. Dame'~;if~~r. There are just tq~~ 1M,11y alumni· ~b~rem-t,J#Jicr the gloryJlAfs uf·the!~i=~~•~ r~~~ ~:: USC lose again.  



USC hates the cold and rain even more than 
The Trojans will feel the heat this weekend when they the rich guys in the gold seats do. Saturday's enter Notre Dame Stadium, despite the cold tempera­game will be frigid and wet. Davie's October tures. Carlyle Holiday has been a proven spark to the winning streak will continue for another week offense since Notre Dame's homecoming after the Texas as the Irish pound the Trojans into the mud. A&M fiasco. His big strides have propelled the Irish to two much needed wins. His handling of the offense will
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 
give the Irish their third win to even out their record.
USC 17 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34· Kerry Smith 
USC 17 assistant managing editor 
t 
Mike Connolly edHor in chief 


page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 19, 2001 
Running up the middle actually works 
The numbskull spoke up around the 10th time Notre Dame ran the ball up the middle on first down. 
From somewhere in the upper 

# levels of 
the stu­dent sec­tion, some genius who knows more about underwa­

ter ba.-.,ket­
Andrew Soukup 
weaving 
than foot­
ball bel­
Associate
lowed out. 
Sports Editor 
"There we 
go again 
-run the 
ball up the middle on first down. 
Davie, why don't you pass 
everyone once in a while'?" 
The answer is sin1ple. Running works. It doesn't matter that every­
body in Notre Dame Stadium krn'>ws that on first down, the Irish are going to be running the ball. It doesn't matter that on television sets across the nation, people from Pacemaker-toting senior citizens to pocket-protect­ed business executives know that the Irish love to give the ball to the tailback and let hin1 bar­rel his way up the middle. 

j, It doesn't matter that when 
i 
! it's fourth-and-one and there's not a wide receiver in sight, everyone and his dead uncle know the ball is going up the middle. What d(}{~S matter is that the lri.c;h have been making yardage 
by sending Tony Fisher up the . middle, Julius Jones around the end or Carlyle I Ioliday whernver he decides to run. 
"I don't think for the sake of being unpredictable that you have to do something you're not adept at," offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers said. "I think we're going to try to play to our strengths." 
And that strength is running the ball. · 
In Notre you're looking for creativity, go find a coloring book. 
On their last 56 first downs, Notre Dame ha.-., run the ball 55 times. Predictable? You bet. 
But in the two games that Notre Dame won, the Irish aver­aged an impressive 4.7 yards a carry. By contra<,t, when the IrL'ih were "surprising" and "unpmdictable," they managed 
2.3 yards per rush and lost 
three straight times. Hogers 

Dame's three could get
In the two games that Notre 

losses this on the
Dame won, it averaged an

season, they loud­ran the ball impressive 4.7 yards a speaker almost as and
carry. By contrast, when the 

much as they broadcast
Irish were "surprising,, and

passed it and what averaged 228 "unpredictable", they man­every yards oftotal play is. 
aged 2 .3 yards a rush and 

offense. In Fisher
lost three straight times. 

their two could put 
wins, they ran the ball about four times as many times as they pa.-.,sed and averaged 367 yards. 
It's eac;y to say that Notre Dame won its last two games because the Irish have cut down their turnovers dramatically. It's ea'iy to say Notre Dame won its last two games because the hish beat lesser opponents. It's easy to say that Notre Dame won its last two games because the defense gave the offense 
. great field position. However, it's correct to say that Notre Dame won because the Irish run the ball. Sure, running the ball on 69 of Notre Dame's 80 offensive plays like the Irish did against West Virginia isn't the most exciting offense in the world. But if 
on a hel­met that has ''I'm getting the ball this play" in bright flores­cent pink letters across the front. Carlyle Holiday could walk up to the line of scrimmage, shake the hand of the defensive tackle, and say, "Iii, it's nice to meet you. On the next play, I'll be running a quarterback draw to your right side. Have a nice day." 
But if the defense can't shut down the rush, it doesn't matter how predictable the Irish are. 
"Ifit's predictable and every­one knows it's coming, they still have to stop it," Fisher said. 
Of course, there might come a point where the defense realizes what the Iri-;h is doing. So instead ofstacking nine men in the box like West Virginia did last week, USC might demon­strate the rigorous academic standards California establishes for its public universities and play all 11 defenders within five yards ofthe line of scrimmage. 

Then Notre Dame will be able to appeac;c the underwater ba'i­ket-weavers and throw the ball down the field for a big play. 
"The run sets up the pa<,s any­how. Everyone knows that," said offensive tackle Kurt Vollers. "I guess we are setting up a great big pass to blow everyone away." 
The Irish may not throw down.field a lot. Nor will they pull offany spectacular double­reverses, halfback passes or other high-risk plays to break the game wide open. 
But by running the ball on first down, the Irish get into · short yardage situations. And when the Irish get into short yardage situations, they run the ball up the middle and pick up a first down. 
They repeat the cycle for 11, 12 or even 15 plays until they score a touchdown. When the Irish do this on every possession and pull off the occasional 50­yard run, they win. 
The new offensive philosophy Davie and Hogers are touting is that the Irish have to run the ball to win. 
It's not exciting. It's not flashy. 
But don't knock it. 
It's working. 
Andrew Soukup can be reached at asoukup@nd.edu. The. views ofthis column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
game hype 

Bob Davie 
Irish head coach 
"I don't think you can prepare for our size and how hard we're gonna 
,, 
come. 

Tony Fisher Irish tailback 
"Now that they are not turning the ball over, they are a really good team. " "This is the best game and the biggest game that I've been involved with zn my coaching 
,,
career. 

Kurt Vollers Irish lineman 
"Ifit's predictable and everyone knows it's coming, they still have to stop it.·· 

Pete Carroll Trojan head coach 







Friday, October 19, 2001 A LOOK AT THIS WEEKEND9 S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION page 7 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
1 
8 
9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
17 
18 
@: 19 
20 21 
22 23 
24 25 
AP poll 
GAME OF THE WEEK 


RONALD MARTINEZ/Allsport Texas quarterback Chris Simms drops back to pass during the Longhorns 1~3 loss against Oklahoma two weeks ago. Simms leads the Texas against Colorado this weekend. 
Texas, Colorado has Big-12 title implications 
team 
Miami {48) 
Oklahoma (11) 
Nebraska (1} 
Virginia Tecb 
Oregon 
UCLA 
Florida 
Texas 
Michigan 
Fresno State Tennessee Washington 
BYU 
Maryland 
Clemson 
South Carolina Georgia 
BYU 
Washington State Auburn Florida State Northwestern Georgia Tech Purdue Toledo 


record 5-0 
6-0 
7-0 
6-0 6-0 5-0 5-1 5-1 5-1 
6-0 
3-1 4-1 6-0 6-0 4-1 
5-1 
4-1 6-0 6-0 5·1 3-2 4-1 4-2 4-1 
5-0 
:-}~
·~ 

point...:; 
1,481 1,440 1,382 1,279 1,244 1,239 1,067 1,018 1,009 979 806 
713 
697 690 636 587 669 599 581 568 285 
238 
234 
222 183 

daypoH 
,· •,•c,<·_;;\:~S;;f;~;-,:.. ·.·, 
t record p
s-o···· ·· · 1.,s
Mia 

.OklalJIJ &·O 1~. 
/~~bra ........ }.·.... 7-o t.3 . Virginlal ·•·· . '" 
OregOD . '" ,;;;. · ::: .. J1;!ill1t!1 
UCLA ;g;_•. 

5--0 < 1,23 s-1 ... ·•<·• .. ·•···· 1.0 
.··1?t· 1a?tt wasn, 

19 · Georgia . 20 Northwestern 320 21 Auburn 300 22 Florida State 297 23 Toledo 249 24 Purdu 227 25 Geor 161 
:1W/·.Y·· ?!(st 
Eye or1 lrish Opponents
·:: \~~r:tJt · 
· Saturday 

Texas Tech at NEBRASKA (7-0) MICHIGAN STATE (3-1) at Minnesota TEXAS A&M (5-1) at Kansas State PITTSBURGH {1-4) at BOSTON COLLEGE (4·2) TENNESSEE (3·1) at Alabama NAVY (0•5) at Rutgers STANFORD (3·1} at Oregon 
Off 

WEST VIRGINIA (2·4) PURDUE (4-1) 
around the dial 
USC at Notre Dame Wisconsin at Illinois North Carolina at Clemson Tennessee at Alabama Air Force at BYU Florida State at Virginia 

1:30 p.m., NBC 
11:00 a.m., ESPN 11:00 a.m., ESPN2 
2:30 p.m., ABC 4:45 p.m., ESPN2 
6:45 p.m.• ESPN 
By GREG lADKY Sports Writer 
College football fans should thank the Big-12 Conference. 
Week after week, the Big-12 offers a big time showdown. This week is no different as No. 14 Colorado travels to No. 9 Texas in the only game between ranked teams on Saturday. And it only gets better next week as Oklahoma travels to Lincoln, Neb. to face the Corn huskers. 
Colorado worked its way into Big 12 contention with three wins against ranked opponents, including last week's 31-21 win against Texas A&M. Colorado is tied with Nebraska atop the Big-12 North. Colorado has three easy games after Texas. A win Saturday could set up a monumental showdown with Nebraska on Nov 23. 

Texas fans are still ques­tioning their quarterback situation after sophomore quarterback Chris Simms' shaky performance against the Sooners two weeks ago. But Simms got Texas back in the winner's circle by completing 18-30 for 235 yards in a 38-10 victo­ry against Oklahoma State. Simms' backup, Major 
OTHER TOP GAMES 
Air Force at BYU 

This is no Texas-Oklahoma Red River Shootout, but this game is as big as they come in the Mountain West Conference. 
The 4-1 Falcons travel to take on the undefeated No. 18 Cougars for first place in th(1 MWC. Air Force's lone loss came at the hands of Oklahoma opening weekend. 
The Falcons beat BYU 31-23 last year. This year, Air Force has the best defense in the MWC, giving up 19.2 points a game. 
The NCAA declared BYU star running back Luke Staley academically eligible on Monday. His course load was previously under review by the NCAA, which requires 12 credit hours per semester. 
Staley sat out last week's game against New Mexico. BYU narrowly won 24-20. Staley is averaging an impres­sive 8.9 yards per carry this year. Quarterback Brandon Dornan has completed about 66 percent of his passes for L621 yards, 16 touchdowns and just two interceptions. 
This game matches the top two rushing teams in the conference. If Air Force can find a way to slow down BYU's passing attack, the Falcons may pull off the upset. 
Applewhite, holds several Texas passing records. 
The Longhorns are seek­ing their 12th-straight home victory Saturday. The defense allowed just 133 yards in last year's 28-14 win in Boulder. 
All eyes will be on the injury-plagued Colorado secondary. They have to cover a receiving corps that Colorado coach Gary Barnett described as "no three better wide receivers in the country." Roy Williams, Sloan Thomas and B.J. Johnson give defenses huge problems. 
Oklahoma proved the way to beat Texas is to pressure Simms. Colorado defensive tackle Brandon Dabdoub told The Denver Post, "They have four receivers (including tight end Bo Scaife) who are just Randy Moss-type guys. We can't leave our defen­sive backs on an island. If we do, it will be a long day for us." 

Along with the injury problem, the Colorado sec­ondary gave up several long pass plays to Texas A&M last week. 
Colorado is an improving football team. The Buffaloes need to continue that improvement to beat the Longhorns in Austin on Saturday. 
North Carolina at Clemson 

The most explosive offensive player and defensive player in the country will be looking into each other's eyes Saturday when North Carolina battles No. 13 Clemson in Death Valley. 
Tar Heels' defensive end Julius Peppers ha<. been dominat-­ing opposing offenses. Ile already har.; 17 tackles for a loss and 8.5 sacks. Many pro scout<. think he will be the first pick in the NFL draft 
Clemson quarterback Woodrow Dantzler claimed the Heisrnan frontrunner spot in last week's 45-37 win against North Carolina State. lie had 517 yards of total offense (184 rushing and 333 pac:;sing} and accounted for six touchdowns. He is on pace to become the first ever NCM Division I player • to throw for 2,000 yards and run for 1,000 yards in a sea-. son. 
The Tar Heels have won four straight after starting 0-3. But those loses were to Oklahoma, Texa'i and Maryland. The Tar Heels got things going with a 41-9 blow out of Florida State on Sept 22. 
This should be a great game. Clemson is very talented, but the Tar Heels are on a roll. This is the kind of game where turnovers and big plays dictate the winner. 

page 8 The Observer . ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 19, 2001 

4'-4 ..,fillion Reasons A Single Store ® 
ENTER TO WIN 
One Stop Shopping
One Lucky Winner Will Receive The Opportunity 
For all your

To Paint Notre Dame Football Helmets -Friday, Nov. 16th tailgating needs ( the night before the N.D. vs. Navy game) 
. 
drinks . ice . coolers 

. 
chips . snacks 

• 
hot dogs • hamburgers 

. 
fried chicken . sausage 



..... 

. sandwiches • deli trays 
+ bread 
. 
buns 

• 
salads 

• 
grills . 



Enter between October 21st & November 3rd + accessories At the Team Notre Dame Display + chairs 
+ tables 

*Exclusive to Meijer* 
*Game day attire *Car flags *Window clings *Irish Sweatshirts & T-Shirts *Football Yearbooks *ND W 01nen 's Cha1npionship 
BasketbalI. Videos And n1uch, n1uch 1nore.... 






Visit us at: 
5020 Grape-road 3600 n. portage-road 
open 24/7 for all your shopping needs 
. ' 
-,....,_ ...s ..L I. .. \ I I , ..._ t.. .>......J......~ 






