
Mullet mania 
Bring on the meat 

Thursday ... 
Saturday Night live alumnus David Spade 
Notre Dame student Michael Sweikar writes in 
returns in a comedy called "Joe Dirt" about a 
support ofhaving meat served in the dining 
guy markedfor problems since birth. 
halls on Friday's during lent. 
APRIL 19, 
Scene . pages 12-13 
Viewpoint . page 11 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Daine and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 124 HTTP:!/OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



ROTC ceremony draws Pax Christi protest 
By KERRY SMITH 
News Writer 
Glimpses of the faces of those involved in both the Joint-Military Presidential Pass in Review and the Pax Christi protest of the event Wednesday revealed conflict­ing opinions of the· role the ROTC program plays on Notre Dame's campus. 
While Pax Christi members bowed their heads in prayers of peace outside Loftus Sports Complex. many ROTC students walked stoically inside with unwavering eyes. 
As the almost 40 protesters listened to speakers, joined in song and passed out fliers; many ROTC students respect­fully accepted the handouts and greeted acquaintances while some snickered or joked at the protestors' efforts. 
"As Danielle Scorch ·was singing and we were all melt­


ing our hearts out, the review­
Members of Pax Christi 
ing officer [University 
gathered to protest the
President Father Edward Malloy] walked right by," said presence of ROTC at Pax Christi member Mike 
Notre Dan1e as ROTC
Griffin. "These are glimpses of the kingdom for sure." students marched into Sponsored by the ROTC 
the Loftus Sports
Council of the University of Notre Dame, the Pass in Co111plex. The ROTC Review is an annual event in 
ceremony featured
which ROTC students are hon­ored and blessed by the University President University President. 
Father Edward Malloy
Pax Christi, the Catholic awareness group that opposes honoring and blessing ROTC's role on campus was on 
members of the ROTC

hand to voice its disapproval of Malloy blessing the ROTC program. students. 
"We don't have a specific platform but we believe the . role of the United States Military should be more limit-Photos courtesy of Krista 
Schoening 

see ROTC/page 4 
and Mark Day 


FACULTY SENATE 


Forum explores options for Senate 
ByJASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
A forum Wednesday didn't completely close the door on the Faculty Senate but instead opened discussion for ways of making the body more effective -or scrapping it altogether. 
In the process, however, the hour-long meeting may have ini­tiated the rumblings of a debate that will ultimately question the role of organized labor on cam­pus. 
About 70 University professors -including more than a dozen faculty senators -participated in the senate-sponsored forum. The forum came at the request of senate chair Jean Porter to discuss the group's future. 
On April 3, at the senate's reg­ular monthly meeting, Porter proposed a resolution to amend a section of the University's Academic Articles -a move that would signal the senate's end. The resolution would strike Article IV Section 3 of the Academic Articles and would have the effect of dissolving the senate. 

•TH ask the senate executive committee to endorse the resolu­tion," Porter said Tuesday. "It's not because I want to see the senate dissolved but because I want to discuss and debate the consequences of its continua­tion." 
The senate will consider the resolution at its May meeting. 
On \Vednesday, faculty mem­bers filled McKenna Hall's audi­torium past half-full and began discussion about the role a pow­erful faculty-run body could play 
see FACUL1Y/page 4 


Police: Robberies were 'isolated incidents' 
ByJASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
The robberies late last week of two off-campus student resi­dences were "isolated incidents" and are no cause for wide­spread security concerns, South Bend police said Wednesday. 
Police on Wednesday released information linking two armed robberies of Notre Dame stu­dents on April 12 and 13, hoping to allay doubts about off-campus safety. 
"These were isolated inci­dents. and they were both con­nected," Capt. John Williams, public information officer for the South Bend Police Department, said Wednesday. "We want to get the point across that kids who live off campus should feel just as secure as any other citi­zen in South Bend." 
Police reports indicate that five suspects were arrested Saturday in connection with 
see ROBBERJES/page 4 
Thursday, April 19, 2001 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
W. is nice, but I'll take Joe 

Well, it's official, and, as a member of the Class of 2001, I guess I should be honored that the 
President of the United States will be here to hail us when we graduate next month. 
But I must admit I'm less than fired up about George 
W. Bush being our com­mencement speaker. 
Yes, it is impressive that out of the probably dozens of invitations he received, Bush chose Notre Dame and the Naval Academy to deliver his first commencement address­es as president. 
It certainly makes Notre Dame look good. The most powerful man in the world will be here, just to address our graduates. Of course, 
\'?· ~, 
·--:. '.«.;:<W ' 




"""'· 


Tim Logan 
Senior Staff Writer 

with him will come national media attention and the prestige of adding another president to our roster of famous commencement speakers. There were surely lots of smiles and congratulations all around in the Dome when word arrived that Bush was coming to South Bend. 
But what is he going to say? Will he tell us about his college years? What he remembers of Yale frat boy glory days? 
Will he turn it into a policy speech, making the ludicrous case for a missile defense system or pushing for a tax cut for the rich? 
Or maybe he will give us advice on how to suc­ceed in life: use daddy's connections to buy a baseball team, run for governor of a big state and then get yourself, by hook or by crook, elected president. 
Who knows? Who cares? The president is com­ing. 
My classmates will remember the flap three years ago when Notre Dame lost out on some big­ger names and had to "settle" for Joe Kernan as commencement speaker. "Joe who?" everyone asked. Joe Kernan, the lowly Lieutenant Governor of Indiana, a Notre Dame alum, a dynamic former mayor of South Bend and a Vietnam P.0.W. 
Despite that honorable resume, Keman's selec­tion was derided by some. The Lieutenant Governor? Of Indiana? This was a travesty, an insult. We deseive better. 
But Kernan is a good man, and he stayed out of the fray, came to Notre Dame and delivered what by all accounts was a great speech. A man with some real life experiences shared them with the graduates of his alma mater, and maybe inspired some of them to go out into the world and lead a better life. 
Few people outside Indiana know who Joe Kernan is. CNN and The Washington Post were not there to cover his speech. And Notre Dame did not get any big publicity boost for having him, but that's okay. 
Commencement addresses should not be about big publicity boosts or political speeches, and if Notre Dame needs Bush to come to "validate" its status as a "prominent university,"as one school spokesman suggested, than it's got some serious image problems. 
No, these addresses should be about doing what Kernan did. They should be about providing a role model for the graduates, a role model who can come and speak and inspire. They should not be about enhancing the reputation of the university. 
In all the hoopla surrounding President Bush's selection, let's try to remember that. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAfF 

News Scene 

Colleen McCarthy Mike Nania Myra McGriff Graphics Courtney Boyle Katie McKenna Sports Production Ka.cie Hughes Jeff Baltruzak Viewpoint Lab Tech Patrick Odewski Peter Richardson 
The Observu {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 


THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday Friday 
. Lecture: "Columbia: Old . Lecture: "Montesquieu's Problems, New Strategies," Labryinth: In the 
4:15 p.m., Room C-103 Beginning ... ," 12:30 p.m., 
Hesburgh Center Room 143, DeBartolo hall 
. Lecture: " Catherine of . Film: "You can Count on 
Siena and the Voices of Me," 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 
Women Today," 7:30p.m., 
p.m., Annenberg 
Little Theater, SMC Auditorium 
Saturday  Sunday  
. Event: Career  . Event: Faculty/Guest  
Conference, "Expanding  artist recital duo piano  
your Horizons in Science  concert, 2:30 p.m., Little  
and Mathematics," 7:30  Theater, SMC  
a.m., Debartolo Hall  . Concert: "Swing  
. Event: C.S.C Ordination,  Spring," 3 p.m., Band  
1 :30 p.m., Baslica of the  Building  
Sacred Heart  

Compiled from U•Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Dartmouth condemns Greek sexist newsletter 
HANOVER, N.H 
Paving the way for the possible de-recognition of Zeta Psi fraterni­ty, the Dartmouth Coed Fraternity Sorority Council met Tuesday night to condemn the house for publish­ing a sexist and threatening newsletter. 
The CFSC's action came only hours after the fraternity learned that it is under College investiga­tion, and it marks the beginning of the Greek Judicial Committee's deliberations about how to respond to the revelations. 
"The [Council] was appalled by these allegations," said CFSC presi­dent, Shihwan Chung '02. "This kind of behavior has no part in our system. We will not support any organization that fosters such 
UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII 
Faculty strike over, classes resume 
HONOLULU 
The University of Hawaii faculty will return to cam­pus on Wednesday after 13 days on strike, but classes will begin again on Thursday for students. Gov. Benjamin Cayetano announced the settlement between the state and the University of Hawaii Professional Assembly on Tuesday evening in a press conference. "There were some issues that ... we had to work through," he said at the press conference. Alexander Malahoff, president of UHPA, said that the contract reached for UH professors was an across­the-board increase. "I think it will be a win for the faculty, university and state," Cayetano said. Cayetano said that the details of the two-year contract needed to be finalized before they were released. Talks over the past few days have been "painfully close," said 
J.N. Musto, executive director of UHPA on Tuesday afternoon. Musto was not present when the settle­ment was announced. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and hi h tern ratures 
I 
,I 

Friday Saturdqty Sunda~ Monda)' 
~ 

Tuesday
&~~~~v 


q,~-~QQ.Q (f ~ ~ 
ShOWers T-storms Rain F!~,.;ies S~;:i; Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Auociated p,." OraphicsN81 

behavior." 
The decision about whether or not the College de-recognizes Zeta Psi, thereby sounding the death knell to the 48-member organiza­tion, will ultimately be decided by the Office of Residential Life. But the Greek JC usually plays an important advisory role in ORL's decision-making process, and that group plans to meet throughout the next week to hear Zeta Psi's case. 
Zeta Psi president Gene Boyle '02 said he does not want to see his fraternity de-recognized but he supports the judicial process already under way. 
"Obviously, as a Zete, I want to see our house still here. But I'm willing to work to make changes," he said. "I hope the outcome is fair and justly viewed by all parties." 
The CFSC did not inform Zeta Psi that it planned to address the publi­cation in last night's meeting, and Boyle said he only learned of the brewing upset during the day yes­terday. 
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 
Mascot under fire from Civil Rights 
CARBONDALE 

Debate about the University of Illinois at Urbana­Champaign's mascot, Chief Illiniwek, has risen again in response to a U.S. Commission on Civil Rights statement issued Friday. The statement calls for the end of the use of Native American images and nick­names as sports symbols by non-Native universities. The document puts pressure on the University of Illinois, which has been caught up with controversy over the appropriateness of Chief Illiniwek for more than a decade. Carol Spindel, professor of English at UIUC and author of the 2000 book, "Dancing at Halftime: Sports and the Controversy Over American Indian Mascots," said the debate on their campus is "persistent and pervasive." Critics of Illiniwek say the representation is disrespectful. The mascot is depict­ed by a student who dances during halftime of foot­ball and basketball games, with a painted face and dressed in a costume and headdress of the Oglala Lakota Sioux tribe. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather«> forecast for noon,Thursday, April 19. 
30 Bands separate high temperature zones !or the day. 
......,.. .............


COW WARM SUTIONARY

0 2001 AccuWealher Inc. 
l'rnl<n: 

® © Di=Jc::::JDDD 
High Low Showero Rain T••lom,a Flurrlu Snow lco Sunny Pt. CIOudy CIOU<2y Via ~edp,_. 
Thursday, April 19, 2001 page 3 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
STUDENT SENATE 

Led b t d t b d • • , SARAH FUCHSfrhe Observer 
. Y s u en o Y ~•ce president Brian Moscona, the senate elected representatives to var­ious campus boards, including the Campus Life Committee. 
Reps selected for campus boards 
actually gets accomplished through the CLC,"
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Haan said. News Writer 
In addition to CLC representatives, the Senate also elected two members -Dillon Senator Jim Ryan and Knott Senator Matt
The Student Senate elected several of its own 
Parsons -to represent the group on the
members Wednesday night to represent the 
Financial Management Board (FMB). The
group on other campus boards. 
board must annually allocate funds to certainThe senate elected three representatives and 
campus entities, such as the Student Union
one al!ernate to serve on the Campus Life 
Board.

Council (CLC); the committee made up of 
Ryan said that the position fits in well withadministrators, rectors. and faculty that must his majors, government and economics.
approve certain resolutions the Senate passes. 
"That's what we do -deal with money and
"I have no qualms standing up and speaking 
people who want it," Ryan said. Parsons simi­
to anybody, be it administrators, teachers, or 
larly expressed his interest to serve on the
rectors," said Carroll Hall Senator Jesse Flores, FMB.
one of the thre.e elected to represent the senate on the CLC next year. Senators Meghan O'Donnell of Pasquerilla In other Senate News: 
West and Sole Galmarini of Badin will serve The Senate unanimously confirmed Jason along with Flores. Senator Blake Haan of King as the class council representative to Keenan will serve as the alternate. FMB. King was recently elected treasurer of 
"I want to make sure what we do in Senate the class of 2004. 


Group seeks dialogue about homosexuality 
Catholic perspective says we 

By TIM LOGAN should love our neighbor. That 
Senior Staff Writer comes before all else." 
IFlAG is fairly new and is not 

In an attempt to improve the yet recognized by the University. 
climate for homosexual students Johnson said the group plans to 
at Notre Dame, a group of stu­apply to Student Activities for offi­
dents is forming a chapter of Irish cial club status early in the fall 
Friends of Lesbians and Gays semester. Acceptance would give 
(IFlAG) on campus. them office space and access to 
The as-of-yet unrecognized student funds, as well as the abili­group will work with campus ty to meet on campus. groups, both official and unoffi­Official recognition of gay and cial, to stimulate dialogue about lesbian student groups has been homosexuality, and increase a controversial issue on campus understanding of it. for nearly two decades. The 
"We're plan-University has ning on trying never given to make the "We're planning on its stamp of 
atmosphere on 
trying to make the approval to 
campus more 
one, saying

atmostphere on campus
welcoming to 
that past

homosexual more welcoming for 
groups have students," said homosexual students. ,. held beliefs
Sandra 
contrary toJohnson, a 

Church teach­

Sandra Johnson 
spokeswoman 
ings. But

for IFIAG. IFLAG Spokeswoman 
IFLAG is a

The group 
support­

plans to do this based group, and Johnson is opti­through dorm presentations and mistic for its chances at recogni­by joining with the University's 
tion.

Standing Committee on Gay and 
''I'd like to think we have a

Lesbian Student Needs as well as good shot at it," she said. "I don't
Outreach ND, the unofficial gay and lesbian student group, to think we're doing anything sponsor campus events and foster against Catholic teaching." discussion. About 20 people attended the 
IFIAG will approach the con­group's first meeting, according troversial topic from a perspec­to Johnson. Nearly 200 are on its tive strictly in line with the mailing list. Church, Johnson said. "We're open to anyone who 
"We will try to educate people would like to come and learn to what actually the Catholic per­more about the issue," Johnson spective is," she said. "The 
said. 


C-M 
Campus Ministry 

at the COLEMAN-MORSE CENTER 
•

• 
: The premiere of the
• 
•
•
•
• 

• AME ~MIDNIGHT
• • following 807 • 
A new Mass on • • Friday Night • • .Showing th. 
• • Frtday . is • • T~ .@ Midnight 
• • 16HT • • 
•

8:00 pm • Play alittle: • • 11e Princess Bride 


• Risk 
in the Student Lounge •• •• 
•

• Taboo • 
• Stratego • 
... a great new way •• • Checl<ers •• • • Balderdash •
•

to kickoff the •• •••
Trivial Pursuit
weekend. • • • 
• and others ... •• 
with all the FREE popcorn and soda you want 

@ Coleman-Morse 

Thursday, April 19, 2001 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Robberies 
continued from page l 
break-ins at Notre Dame student homes on East Howard Street and at Turtle Creek Apartments last Thursday and Friday, respectively. Both incidents involved masked gunmen forcing their way into the residences, ordering occupants to disrobe and robbing the homes, the reports said. 
Williams said an ongoing investigation into the crimes revealed several links between the cases. He said that following the Thursday night robbery, resi­dents of the Howard Street house made arrangements to stay with friends at Turtle Creek. In the process of moving belongings Friday, the students were appar­ently followed to the apartment complex by the suspects. 
"The students never knew they were being watched or fol­lowed," Williams said. 
At least a dozen students were involved in each robbery, accord­ing to police reports. 
Williams said Wednesday that police are continuing to investi­gate at least one more suspect connected with the invasions. 

On Monday, numerous counts of armed robbery were filed in the St. Joseph Superior Court against the five suspects arrested Saturday. 
Charged were five South Bend teenagers: Michael Cox and Jason Hill, 18, and Kevin Bracey, Jerome Brunson and Raphael Driver, all 16. Cox and Driver face 13 counts each; Bracey. 12 counts; and Brunson and Hill, • face nine counts apiece. 
Williams said he hopes stu­dents' concerns will be quelled by the fact that the each suspect has been arrested and formally charged through the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office. 
University officials have arranged a meeting today for student victims to talk with rep­r esentatives from County Prosecutor Chris Toth's office. Notre Dame oflicials have also offered the students on-campus housing options. As of Tuesday, at least eight had accepted invi­tations to move into undergradu­ate residence halls for the remainder of the semester. 
ROTC 
continued from page l 
ed than it is," said Griffin. "Many in the group are paci­fists, but all of us would agree that the just use of force has been recklessly violated by the military." 
Malloy and ROTC members disagree and believe there is no inherent contradiction in an institution, which espouses Catholic doctrine while also housing a ROTC program. 
."Historically. there has always been a witness for a radical view of peace," Malloy said. "But Christians are more persuaded by the 'just war' perspective." 
Griffin and fellow members of Pax Christi cite as their purpose continuing the dia~ logue with the University to address what they see as the core issue: whether Notre Dame's ROTC program should be required to enroll in a course on Catholic teachings on war and peace. 
"The issue is crystallized for us: ls it true that students of ROTC at Notre Dame are expected to have any instruc­tion of Catholic social justice? The answer is no," Griffin said. "We want to see as a first step ROTC students at Notre Dame to have instruc­tion on Catholic teaching on war. We think that is the mini­mum." 
But according to Malloy, such an addition to the ROTC curriculum beyond the requirements imposed by the Pentagon is an unlikely future addition at the University. Malloy cited administrative staffing and financial burdens as impediments to the propos­als to add a course to the cur­riculum. 
Due to Pax Christi's decision to not disrupt the actual cere­mony while it was in progress, the Pass in Review went as planned. Malloy addressed the ROTC students and blessed the graduating seniors in their future endeavors before bestowing students with awards. 
"We gather today to honor academic achievements and 
leadership," Malloy said. "You 
will carry a bit of Notre Dame 
or Saint Mary's with you. For 
the graduating seniors, we 
pray for you and wish you 
well. We hope you will be 
emissaries of peace." 
Nine ROTC students 
received awards for their ser­
vice at the University. 
The ceremony was originally 
scheduled to take place out­
side on South Quad, but citing 
inclement weather, Captain 
Patrick Casey moved the event 
into Loftus. Several members 
of Pax Christi questioned 
whether the event was moved . because of their planned 
protest, but Casey denied that 
claim. 
"I made the decision alone . 
amongst my staff and 
informed the University that it 
would be moved to Loftus," 
Casey said. "On Monday at 
8:30, the forecast was 42 
degrees and wet weather. It 
was going to be very cold and 
probably a very muddy field. 
The weather turned out to be 
a bit warmer, but the decision 
was made on Monday." 

Faculty 
continued from page 1 
at Notre Dame. 
Most professors agreed the fac­ulty deserve an organized voice on campus but that the Faculty Senate -as it exists now -is not the most effective means of expressing it. 
"The senate is not respected by the administration, and some might argue the lack of respect sometimes borders on contempt. 
Some would say the administra­tion doesn't respect the faculty at large," said Dick McBrien, a the­ology professor and former facul­ty senate chair. "But the faculty also doesn't respect the se_nate." 
Last month, when Porter pro­posed the resolution to dissolve the senate, she cited waning sup­port from colleagues and a lack of respect from Notre Dame admin­istrators. She said faculty mem­bers continue to express opinions that the group is powerless and too often disrespected by the University administration. 
"It seems to me that in recent years the present president [Father Edward Malloy] and provost [Nathan Hatch] are par­ticularly less willing to interact with us than previous administra­tors were," said Phil Quinn, phi­losophy professor and faculty senator. "As a result, the atmos­phere of disdain and near con­tempt has gotten worse." 
Many suggested unionization as the key to organizing power among University professors. 
"I think a faculty senate and faculty union could co-exist. I believe in the effectiveness and appropriateness of both," said Kirsten Christensen, a foreign language professor. 
Some questioned the feasibility of unionization. 
Michael Detlefsen, a philosophy professor and former senate chair, said an organized labor movement among his colleagues is not a viable option right now because faculty members are "too well-fed and not tough enough." 
"Once they saw how the real workings of a union operate, once they sat down at the negotiation table, they wouldn't want to do it," Detlefsen said. 
If a senators vote in favor of the resolution next month, the move would serve only as a recommen­dation that would still need approval by the Academic Council, the University president and the Board of Trustees. 
A new senate will be elected and hold office for the next few months, and that body could choose to revoke. the resolution and continue the senate's exif tence. 

Looking for something to do TONIGJfT? 
Come dance the night away with your friends at Senior Bar! Tb-.-.rsd~y~ April I9th IOp...-2a,..._ Al........_-Seillor CI..b 
As a ~ay to thank our members for another 
semester of hard ~ork, the SIBC is thro-wing a 
campus-vvide party this Thursday night at 
Alumni-Senior Club. 
~"-UDE.Jv.7' • Free Snacks
Everyone &. -~ 
• Great Music 
s ;J:;,..
IS -§3 ~ -0 ;:::r i • Free T-Shirts 
~.tsnu'~~
Welco1ne! • And More... 
as 

RL 
ATION 
Thursday, April 19, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Russia accuses scientist of spying: A 
Russian physicist who specializes in space research was accused Wednesday of spying for China -the latest in a growing list of spy cases involving scientists. Russia's Federal Security Service accused Valentin Danilov, a researcher at Krasnoyarsk Technical University, of selling research materials to a Chinese import-export company, service spokeswoman Stella Alexeyeva said in Krasnoyarsk, about 2,000 miles east of Moscow. 
Belgrade court upholds sentences: 
In a case denounced as "ridiculous" by Yugoslavia's current leadership, a court on Wednesday upheld 20-year sentences against former President Clinton and other world lead­ers for the 1999 NATO bombing. Noting the case began while Slobodan Milosevic was still in power, Serbian Justice Minister Vladan Batie told The Associated Press that it was "legally impossible" for the current government to dis­miss it. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Osprey not ready for use: A Pentagon­appointed panel recommended the Marine Corps' troubled V-22 Osprey program continue but with "bare minimum" production because of serious concerns about the aircraft's safety and design. The panel agreed Wednesday that the Osprey was the best aircraft suited for Marine missions but plans to advise the Pentagon the aircraft needs various repairs and redesign work before it can return to flight. 
Witness admits to using drugs: A key prosecution witness against Kennedy nephew Michael Skakel admitted in court Wednesday he was using heroin when he told a grand jury Skakel had confessed to the 197 5 murder of a neighbor. But the witness -Gregory Coleman, who was a student at a Maine treatment center with Skakel when they were younger -did not recant his testimony that Skakel said he beat teenager Martha Moxley to death. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Judge denies request to webcast execution: A federal judge has denied an Internet company's request to webcast the execution of Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh. U.S. District Court Judge John Tinder ruled Wednesday that the First Amendment did not entitle Entertainment Network Inc. to broadcast the execution on the Internet. Federal law allows the media to be present at an execution, but does not allow any sound-or video-recording devices. 
Market Watch April 18 

Dow 
10,615.83 +399.10 

Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 180 NIA 
AMEX: 900.58 +0.78 
NASDAQ: 2,079.44 +156.22 
NYSE: 626.02 +1724 
S&P 500: 1,238.16 +4635 
JOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +20.12 +5.24 31. 28 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +7.62 +1.27 17.93 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +10.42 +4.30 45. 55 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +15.84 +l. 70 17. 92 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +6.42 +2.54 18. 58 
~-..-----------------------­
CANADA 


Associated Press 
QUEBEC 

Police arrested six Canadians they said were planning violence at this weekend's Summit of the Americas, officials said vVednesday, displaying seized weapons that includ­ed small explosives and smoke grenades. 
Inspector Robert Poeti of the Quebec Provincial Police said increased secu­rity for the Friday-Sunday summit, where 34 leaders of the Western Hemisphere will gather, led to the arrests of two 21-year-old men driving into Quebec City and four men in the Montreal area. 
The arrests occurred Tuesday and Wednesday. Police recovered the explo-· sives and grenades along with flammable liquid, baseball bats, gas masks and pointed sticks, Poeti said. 
Poeti said a Canadian mil­itary reservist and a former member of the military were among the six arrest­ed, and that some of the explosive materials seized were military-issue. 
Police would not identify the arrested men, who face charges including posses­sion of explosives, stealing military supplies and con­spiring to endanger public safety. 
Huge protests are 
planned around the summit by activists who are travel­ing from around the world. Shopkeepers have boarded up many stores, and Canadian authorities have erected a 2 1/2-mile con­crete-and-wire fence to pre­vent the activists from get­ting near the summit site. 
On Wednesday, a Quebec judge ruled that although the fence infringes on civil liberties, it is justified given the fears of unrest. The groups that filed the lawsuit said they would appeal, but the appeal will not be heard until after the summit. 
Probably the most high­profile of the activists. French farmer Jose Bove, said Wednesday that he would participate in the demonstrations but didn't want to make trouble. 
Bove, 47, is appealing a three-month prison sen­tence for the 1999 ransack­ing of a McDonald's restau­rant in France. 
"I have not come here to impose any mode of action, but will participate in what­ever actions are being pre­p a red by local groups." Bove said. 
The Canadian govern­ment intervened to allow Bove to attend the Summit of the Americas, where the leaders will discuss expand­ing the North America Free Trade Agreement to include Central and South America and the Caribbean. 

Bush tightens arsenic standard 
from environmentalists and others promising a final regulation within
Associated Press 

last month when his EPA killed a nine months. WASHINGTON Clinton administration regulation She said the decision to seek a 
The Bush administration, under that would have tightened the stan­report from t\le academy would fire for scrapping Clinton standards dard to no more than 10 parts of "ensure that a standard will be put for arsenic in drinking water, arsenic per billion in drinking water. in place in a timely manner that pro­announced plans Wednesday to The current standard, set in 1942, is vides clean, safe and affordable tighten the standards within nine 50 parts per billion. drinking water for the nation and is months. Whitman said she wanted a panel based on the best science." 
Christie Whitman. administrator of of scientists at the academy to exam­The Bush administration's decision the Environmental Protection ine a standard in the range of 3 to 20 on March 20 to stop the regulation Agency, said she was asking the parts per billion. put into place three days before the National Academy of Sciences to "The Bush administration is com­end of the Clinton presidency created examine the impact of a range of mitted to protecting the environment an uproar among environmentalists, possible reductions. and the health of all Americans." congressional Democrats and mem­
Bush had drawn heavy criticism Whitman said in a written statement, bers of the public. 
-·--­


page 6 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 19, 2001 
With joy and thanksgiving the Congregation of Holy Cross and the families of: 

Rev. Stephen J. Kempinger, C.S.C. Rev. Kevin M. Russeau, C.S.C 
Invite you to celebrate their ordination to the priesthood for lifelong service to the people of God. 
The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by the Most Reverend John Michael D'Arcy Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend: 
Saturday,April 21, 200 I I :30 p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
"We heard a summons to give over our lives in a more explicit way." Constitutions of the Congregation of Holy Cross, 1.3 
THEY ANSWERED THE CALL! 
www.nd.edu/~ vocation 
a 
Thursday, April 19, 200I page 7
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israel retaliates against Palestinians, level police station 
. Israel ignores pleas for restraint, re-enters territory 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY. Gaza Strip 

Despite American criticism. Israel on Wednesday briefly re­entered the Gaza Strip and lev­eled a Palestinian police station on territory granted to Vasser Arafat's government in peace agreements. 
The raid in southern Gaza came 10 hours after Israel withdrew troops from a one square-mile area they had seized Tuesday morning at the opposite end of the strip. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon came under criticism that he had bowed to pressure from the United States, which had denounced the land takeover. 
Israel said its actions were a response to Palestinian mortar and shooting attacks against Israeli civilians. The attacks and Tuesday's land seizure out­raged Palestinians. Information Minister Vasser Abed Rabbo said the Palestinians would respond with "popular resis­tance" to Israel's incursions. 
Palestinian fire continued despite the Israeli retaliation. 
Soon after Israeli troops pulled out of the northern pocket. six mortars hit near the Jewish settlement of Neve Dekalim in Gaza. After nightfall Wednesday, five mortar shells landed at Nir Am. an Israeli vil­lage just outside the Gaza bor­der fence, as well as near the 
Gaza settlement Kfar Darom, 
the military said. No injuries 
were reported. Israeli tanks 
fired shells at a police post in 
Beit Hanoun in northern Gaza. 
Palestinians said. 
Fierce exchanges of fire took place near Jerusalem, between the Palestinian town of Beit Jalla and Israeli positions near the Jewish neighborhood of Gilo in disputed east Jerusalem. 
Sharon's government insisted it had planned to pull out of the northern Gaza pocket even before Secretary of State Colin Powell denounced the takeover. Foreign Minister Shimon Peres spoke with Powell by phone Wednesday and said Powell's sharp words had resulted from a "problem with communica­tion." 
In a telephone call late Wednesday, President Bush carried a message of restraint directly to Sharon, the White House said, reinforcing U.S. efforts to moderate Israel's retaliation to Palestinian attacks. 
"Both leaders agreed on the need for restraint by both par­ties to avoid further escalation in the area," White House spokeswoman Mary Ellen Countryman said. 
Sharon aide Raanan Gissin said the call was aimed at clearing the air over the incur­sion. 
Palestinian parliament speak­er Ahmed Qureia praised the 
U.S. stand against the Israeli incursion. He said it showed that the United States can play dovish opposition and right­wing parties accused Sharon of unfairly shifting the blame to the army officer to avoid the appearance of having suc­cumbed to U.S. pressure. 
"Sharon is covering up an 
operational failure." said Shaul 
Yahalom of the right-wing 
National Religious Party. 
"Instead of admitting he with­
drew under American pressure 
he shifts the blame to .. 
Naveh." 
Jewish settlers in the Gaza 
Strip, whose communities have 
frequently been targeted by 
Palestinian mortars, com­
plained that Sharon has not 
lived up to his promise to 
restore security. 
Yossi Yered, whose infant son was injured in a mortar attack on a Gaza settlement earlier this month. said troops should not have withdrawn from the Palestinian area. 
"Where is the feeling of secu­rity?" asked Yered. "They [gov­ernment officials] talk, talk, talk and when finally they do something, they back down with their tail between their legs." 
Military commentators called the army's incursion a resounding failure because it did not prevent more mortar fire and deprived Israel of a major option. 
"The Palestinians know that there is no longer an [Israel]) option of going in and occupy­ing areas they controL A card has been lost," said Roni Daniel, the military correspon­dent for Israel Channel 2 TV. 

an active role in Middle East peacemaking and "can impose this role on Israel." Up to now the Bush administration has hesitated to involve itself deeply in the conflict. 
In Geneva, the U.N. Human Rights Commission censured Israel for allowing Jewish set­tlements in the Palestinian ter­ritories, with only the United States taking Israel's side. 
In Wednesday's incursion, a tank and two bulldozers razed a Palestinian police station and 
farmland International Airport in the southern Gaza Strip, t h e n returned to Israeli-con­trolled terri­tory. 
The army said shots had been fired from the position at workers at the nearby Israeli-Egyptian bor­
near Gaza 
der fence. No one was injured in the shooting. 
During its land-seizure in northern Gaza, Israeli troops razed six Palestinian police sta­tions and destroyed orange groves and farmland outside the town of Beit Hanoun. Hassan Shabat, returning to his farm, said he lost 5,000 chick­ens, the livelihood of a family of 17. 
Traces of the incursion were everywhere -tracks of battle tanks. piles of concrete rubble, dozens of weary and frustrated Palestinians shifting through the ruins. Before its troops entered early Tuesday, Israel fired a heavy rocket barrage across the Gaza Strip, killing one Palestinian policeman. 
Soon after troops seized the pocket, an Israeli army com­mander had said troops might remain in place for "days. weeks or months." Yet the sol­diers were pulled out just sev­eral hours after Powell called the Israeli action 
"Where is the feeling of "exces­security? They sive." 
Sharon's
{government officials] talk, 
a i d e s 
talk, talk and when finally denied thefj do something, they back there hatl 
been a
down with their tail between 
h a s t y
their legs.·· about-face following the U.S.
Yossi Yered 
condemna­
Settler, Gaza Strip 
tion, the 
harshest 
rebuke of 
Israel since Bush took office three months ago. 
The decision to withdraw was made at a time when Powell was still "sleeping the sleep of the just" in Washington, said Gissin, the Sharon adviser. The army said the Israeli brigadier general who spoke of a possibly extended stay of troops in the Palestinian-controlled area had "exceeded his authority." 
But legislators from both the 


page 8 Thursday, April 19, 2001 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

www.kpmgcampus.com 

We're proud of the employees and interns who have chosen to step up to a position with KPMG. We're committed to the University of Notre Dame and congrat~late you on your decision to reach for the top. 
understanding @~ 
Thursday, April 19, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

MEP appoints Ward director of program 
Degrees for Minorities in 
Special to The Observer 
Engineering and Science, Inc., a 
Love Kids? Tired of''Drop-ln'' Tutoring? 
Btillll a lasting relationship with a child thro11gh reading and/or athletics with: 
TIAMWOIK ,01 TOMOIIOW 
OJ NOTII DAMI 

Erica Cain-Ward has been 
appointed director of the 
Minority Engineering Program 
at Notre Dame. 
Established in 1987 by the 
College of Engineering. the 
Minority Engineering Program 
(MEP) offers educational initia­
tives aimed at challenging and 
encouraging minority engineer­
ing students in the pursuit of .undergraduate degrees. It also helps them develop the leader­ship skills necessary for suc­cessful careers. 
A 1993 Notre Dame graduate, Cain-Ward most recently served as manager of recruitment and retention for the National Consortium for Graduate not-for-profit organization headquartered at Notre Dame. 
As director of the MEP, Cain­Ward will oversee the pro­gram's Academic Excellence Workshops, Mastering Techniques for Excellence in Engineering courses, the annual General Motors Scholars' com­petition, the Graduate School Connections program, the Five­Year Scholars Initiative. the MEP Alumni Network and the Am~ritech Pre-college Minority Engineering Program. She also will provide guidance to stu­dents seeking internships, schol­arships and employment oppor­tunities as teaching and engi­neering assistants within the college. 
ERASMUS BOOKS
Teamwork for Tomorrow is a comm1mity 011treach 
-Used Books bought and sold 
-25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 
organization committed to brightening the fi1tt1res of 
children through alternative ed11cational 
-Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small
programming in the areas ofliteracy, athletics and 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 
mentoring. 

1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
Inforlllational Meetings: 
\\rednesdayApril IS and ThursdayApril 19 Spin Basement ofFarley Hall 
Pick up an application at the meeting or contact: Roccltio.4@n<l.ed11 or Foy.4@ncl.ec111 

' -STARTS TOMORROW 
KERASOTESTHEATRES SHOWPLACE 16  T "'T"E CALL~R"  
450 W. Chippewa  299-6063  SHOWT!MES  

Bruno 1s Piz.za All-you-can-eat Buffet 
(Includes Drink) 
*Pizza *Pasta 
$5.99 
*Salad *Other Italian Dishes *Parties Welcome 
Every Thursday at 5 
2610 Prairie Avenue 
288-3320 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Kerry Smith  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Pat McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradter ScENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAR\"s EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYS'ITMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROll..ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFlCE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0•.••........••631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VJEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:lloburver.nd~du for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news 
! from the Associated Press. 
l 
SURF TO: weather for up-to-the minute forecasts 
V .advertise for policies and rates of print ads 
archives to search for articles published after August 1999 

POLICIES 
movies/music for weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­cial campus coverage 
about The Observer 
to meet the editors and staff 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the righr to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively a~ possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qµrstions regarding Obsrrvn-policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMik~ Connolly. 
a a 


O
THE BSERVER Thursday, April 19, 2001 
-l I 
l· 

I l\
I I 
\ 

~~~~~~~------·--·-·•-·· ----------··----·~-. ··­
Correcting our vision 
One of the key features of the conver­sation on sweatshops has been its focus on justice for persons at considerable distance from ourselves. To this end, President Malloy has made several sig­nificant changes in the code of conduct for University licensees. 
It may be time, then, to focus more closely. While myopia is to be avoided, so is hyperopia. 
1. Consumerism: One reason why it has been difficult to focus on more proximate realities · with regard to sweatshops is that the primary con­cern is not translat­able into a code for licensees. What dri­ves ··the race to the bottom,. in wages and conditions for factory workers is First World desire for brand products. We are what John Paul II calls a "con­sumer society." 
Such drive does produce factory jobs; it also produces a willingness to over­look the wages and conditions of the workers. Short of a dress code -it would have to be extended to faculty as well as students -there is little juridi­cally that Notre Dame can do. 
Recommendation: The Progressive Student Alliance and the Entrepreneurs Club should co-sponsor a conversation on the production of wealth and consumerism modeled after the Pax Christi/ROTC conversation on war and peacemaking that has been taking place over the last two years. If there is to be considered conversation on this issue, it must come from the students. 
2. A conscience clause: The compari­son with the discussion of war carries over, and this is a matter that Notre Dame can address in a codified man­ner. Just like there are recognized con­scientious objectors (pacifists) and selective conscientious objectors (based on the just war tradition) with regard to war, there ought to be with regard to economic commitments. 


When coaches and athletes come to Notre Dame, they are in a sense ..con­scripted" to wear adidas. One might object that they need not come here, but the other option, Nike. may be no different. At present. a coach or ath­lete, in order to succeed in collegiate athletics, must wear either adidas, Champion or Nike. 
Recommendation: The Task Force on Anti-Sweatshop Initiatives should rec­ommend and President Malloy should make policy that there be a conscience clause in the Department of Athletics handbook stating that any coach or athlete who cannot in good conscience wear the contracted apparel shall be permitted to wear a generic, situation­ally appropiate alternative. Not to have a conscience clause. is to say our eco­nomic arrangements with our licensees are so grave -more grave than war ­that coaches and athletes must check their consciences at the door when they arrive at Notre Dame. 
3. Purchasing and contracting: It became clear to the Task Force that its purview was limited and had to remain so if it was to get anythingdone. One of the related issues outside our jurisdic­tion has been that of Notre Dame's relationship with suppliers of both materials and labor. 
If, for instance, it is unjustifiable to have Notre Dame products made in China because of its refusal to recog­nize workers' right to organize. it would seem at first blush (though the conclusion after detailed consideration may not be the obvious one) that it would also be unjustifiable to purchase products -for instance, desks -made there. 
Recommendation: President Malloy should appoint a task force like that which considers the production of Notre Dame goods to investigate pur­chasing and contracting. 
4. The living wage: Notre Dame host­ed the founding meeting for the Collegiate Living Wage Association. which, like our present Task Force, is focused on living wages for workers who make collegiate products. A key issue discussed at that meeting was whether the CLWA should also address living wages on campus. 
This relates to the immediately pre­ceeding point because in many cases Notre Dame contracts with a company (for instance, for food services} that offers a service and pays the wages. Not long ago, Notre Dame addressed the issue of wages for staff, but it is worth revisiting both because what constitutes a living wage is not constant and because the previous conversation did not consider the wages paid to workers for services that Notre Dame outsources. One temptation with out­sourcing is (to draw again on the ocular metaphor) to distance the pay mecha­nism of the work so as to put it out of moral sight -neither near nor far enough to be seen. 
Recommendation: President Mallov should appoint a Notre Dame Living· Wage Task Force. The issues around the idea of a living wage are complex ­there are real trade-offs -and only the sustained attention of a task force dedi­cated to the matter will be adequate. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate theology professor. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. '.
, 

DILBERT 
I  BELIEVE THERE IS  
ONE TRUE SOUL MATE  
FOR EVERY PERSON.  
)  
t  
f  
.f  

HE MUST BE VERY I MEANT BUSY. ONE PER 
PERSON. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
.. 
!: YOUR CAN 'YOUR

!•

.!,! WAY SOUL MATE 
'Cl ,.C: WOULD BE 
.,, BE A 
STUPID.
! 

a MONKEY? ...• 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ am free ofall prejudices. I hate everyone equally... 
W.C. Fields writer 


O
THE 
Thursday, April 19, 2001 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Sacrifice needs choice 
During the past weeks, we should without any thought? If we are given a have been experiencing a time of choice to eat meat during Lent, we anticipation for Easter and the resur­will being making a meaningful deci­rection of Christ. Although many peo­sion about what we eat and will expe­ple generally choose different avenues rience the sacrifice that the Lenten to reflect on Christ's death and resur­season is supposed to convey. rection during the Lenten season, Furthermore, not all of us here at most of us at Notre Dame follow the Notre Dame are Catholic. In my opin­Catholic ritual of sacrifice. ion, part of being a Christian is 
Most commonly, this sacrifice is accepting everybody who follows exhibited in several significant days Christ no matter what specific tradi­throughout Lent where we abstain tions are important in his or her own from eating meat. This sacrificial faith. exercise of not eating meat on Fridays We should also consider that the and Ash Wednesday goes back to Bible implies that to be crucified with early church history and is supposed Christ does not mean resorting to to help Catholics reflect upon Christ's extraordinary asceticism. In 1 own sacrifice in the desert. Corinthians 10:25-26, Paul writes, 
If the objective of this Catholic tradi­"Eat whatever is sold in the meat mar­tion is to sacrifice, then I question the ket without raising any question on University's decision not to allow meat the ground of conscience, for the on Fridays and Ash Wednesday during earth is the Lord's and everything in the Lenten season. Is it such a sacri­it." Paul tells us that contemplating fice for the student body to give up the crucified Christ does not mean meat on these designated days when abstinence from any kind of food. our choice is taken away? The answer Not having meat in the dining hall is no. doesn't show acceptance of non­
God doesn't ask us to follow him and Catholics who may have a sound belief then take away all freedom to do found in the Bible, but most impor­wrong. He allows us free choice and tantly, this practice also takes away similarly, we need to have a choice on from the sacrificial experience that we Fridays when we go to our dining hall. as Catholics attempt to achieve during Without the opportunity to choose, are Lent. we really making a sacrifice at all? Are we really contemplating how Michael Sweikar Jesus suffered in the desert for 40 sophomore days and 40 nights when we can grab Alumni Hall anything we want at the dining hall April 19, 2001 
Pax Christi and ROTC concurrently promote peace 
Yesterday at 4:30 p.m. the ROTC That's an important question for one to branches marched together in Loftus answer. But even if Church leaders for the Pass In Review presented to criticize modern war tactics, many may university and military leaders. argue that such tactics preserve more Concurrently, Pax Christi demonstrated lives in the long run. The military seeks to raise awareness about moral issues to promote peace, not war. related to the military. This article is Thirdly, people should avoid demo­not written to debate about who is nizing the military. Some argue that right and wrong, but to promote con­the military is sustained by violence. sideration of the issues raised. Many others would argue that the mili­
There are several important points to tary is a necessary safeguard against address objectively. First, it is good for greater evil sustained by individuals ROTC students to consider these issues serving with heart and dedication. because doing so will ultimately make Many troops today require welfare and them better officers. Pax Christi's argu­yet still choose to serve. Surely they ments may seem aggravating and show that there is goodness in the mili­insulting, but one can gain insight after tary. looking beyond that to consider a dif­Likewise, people must avoid demoniz­ferent perspective. Forming one's per­ing Pax Christi. Many in Pax Christi are spective on the issues is worthwhile, kind and great for conversation. There even if that individual finally chooses to are no bad guys here. disagree. So, yesterday two groups stood for 
Secondly, the military doesn't seek to peace, one while marching, the other promote war. No military person gets while demonstrating. Both have worthy excited at the idea of possibly losing his ideas about how to promote peace. By or her life in war. Yet despite this pos­thinking about the moral issues sibility, those in the military continue involved, perhaps the two can find to serve under the direction of political common ground in their common goals. leaders, who use the military with the intention of promoting a larger peace Andrew DeBerry transcending the violence on the battle­sophomore field. What should a military person do Keough Hall if the pope declares a war unjust? April 18, 200 l 
Justice is served by the police 
The column that was in The Observer yesterday about the 

situation in Cincinnati gave me much to say in response. 
Being from Cincinnati myself, I got a taste of what was going 

on over break. The whole situation just made me so upset, I 
felt unsafe in the place I've lived my entire life. All of the con­
troversy about the role of the police has made me wonder, 
"What if there was no one willing to protect the law anymore?" 
These riots happened out of anger after the shooting and death of a man running from a police officer, who did not know whether the man was armed or not. The article in yes­terday's paper comes down on the entire Cincinnati police force as a result of this and other incidents that are dissimilar, but ended with gunfire. I'll admit that there is racism and prej­udice present among certain police officers, but not all of them. 
I'm not condoning the shooting of Timothy Thomas or putting blame on anyone either. But there are things not being considered in the profession of a police officer. When an accountant makes a mistake, someone loses money. \Vhen a police officer makes a mistake, someone possibly loses their life. That's some major responsibility there. 
But cop~ are people, they're human. Fear is part of human nature, sb is self defense. So is imperfection. When one feels that his life is in danger, he reacts. In certain instances, a police officer may react in the wrong way. 
\Vhether he reacts out of his own personal beliefs or merely out of instinct, it is part of his job. There are police officers who want to do their job well, but sometimes it seems that they can't do anything right. When an officer feels that his life is in danger, should he be passive and possibly sacrifice his life when he is merely trying to enforce the law? Again, I know there is corruption and bigotry within the system. But no sys­tem is perfect. 
We must let those who are trying to serve justice do their job and improve upon the areas and individuals that do not serve justice as they should. For who is going to want to try to serve the community when the community has no respect for the police force in the first place? 
Gina Maccarone 
sophomore Howard Hall April 18, 2001 

Words hurt but actions really speak 
I had just returned from the Easter Vigil Mas_s, the derogatory names such as "nigger," "retard" and Church's greatest ritual celebration of Christ's res-"fatso?" Do we use terms such as "gay" in a nega­urrection and our faith. The liturgy was filled with tive way? If so, why? joyous song and rich symbols of God's love for all of Are we insecure in our own identities or threat-humanity and the rest of creation. ened by those of others? Do we consider our Ian-
Upon my return, I noticed a poster missing from guage to be only our own business and not that of 
my door. You may have seen it in passing these past those who might hear it? Can we be certain that 
few weeks. The background consisted of _______ someone within hearing range is not gay or 
numerous derogatory slang terms for~=......;::;+-"~'-""-~~~,struggling with her body image? Can we 
various groups of people. The "'~ assume that the people around us don't 
foreground stated: Words hurt. .·. ···,:.;._ ~:~~ , have a developmentally disabled sib-
In a perfect world you ----.,....._.a,,.;...""""'1''"'• ling or a step-parent of a different 
wouldn't even think them. race? 
Until then don't even say -• t·. \ I also ask you to consider that 
them. _::;: ---· :· -:\some members of our communi-
For me the poster indi-::.._/: '".; \': -",·) ty might have found that poster cated the kind of inclusive ·-...,,~-. · ·. · \ insightful, challenging or sup-environment to which we ,--:,,,_..::;~./: •, 1portive. Its disappearance may have committed our--~ ·,_ suggest to someone that I ..
-.__:· ...., ..
selves as members of the .;St.:"-• thought the poster's message 
Notre Dame community A,~ worth a mere few weeks' con-
and which we hope to ,.,.___,.,,r-1 sideration. 
bring about by our loving ______.,. '!LJ"~:.~ I do not know whether the words and actions. · -7 person who took the poster was 
Having this poster stolen j, ~E Clo~ · a resident of Breen-Phillips or was intrusive enough. (Not · u.........._ not, a Notre Dame student or only had I made a special • , --_ another visitor, an invited guest of request for the poster aller an ~' • 71 -· ~ --...··. · a resident or someone who was 
office on campus had displayed I ~ l -I_ ,;, simply let in the door. In any case. I it for a few years, but I under-/ . I -._ 1 pray that this person may examine his stand that it is no longer available.) / -, /1/ I '~_,.,/ or her heart and come to a deeper under-The fact of its being done (presumably) ~:(~/standingof the Christian community we are while I was away at Easter worship further called to build in this hall and this university. stunned and hurt me. As we celebrate these 50 days of Easter, may we 
Ifsomeone thought the poster's message too stri-all experience the inclusive love of Christ, in whom dent or disturbing, she (or he) might have, instead, we share new life and, through Christ, deepen our spoken to me about it, asking why I felt it was love for one another. important enough to put up. 
In light of this incident, I challenge all of you to Rebecca E. Davidson consider the issues about which this poster spoke reccor and why someone might be so troubled by them as Breen-Phillips Hall to want to remove it from sight. Do we still use April 14, 200 1 

' .... 4 

M E 

page l.:.. Thursday, April 19, 2001 
-============================================================================================= 
MO' E REVIEW 
Zellweger and Co. bring 'Bridget 
By MEG RYAN 
Scene Movie Critic 
When one sees a movie based on a book they've read, they usually walk out of the theatre disappointed. "Bridget Jones's Diary," on the other hand, proves to be an exception. 
Avid readers of Helen Fielding's novel have been waiting for this movie since before it was cast. They proba­bly thought the movie could never do 
the book justice, especially since an American, Renee Zellweger, has been cast in the lead as a British woman. 
In what should be much to their sur­prise and delight, Zellweger portrays Bridget perfectly, becoming an impor­tant element in one of the best roman­tic comedies in recent years. 
Bridget Jones, a 32-year-old "single­ton" living in London, buys a diary at the beginning of the year to help keep her New Year's resolutions and devel­op inner poise. Her resolutions give a 
glimpse into her character: quit smok­ing, drink less, not fall for "alcoholics, workaholics, commitment phobics, people with girlfriends or wives, chauvinists, emotional f--kwits, free­loaders or perverts," lose weight and "be a poised and cool ice-queen." Any of those sound famil­iar? 
Bridget is loveable"' "Bridget representation of because everyone, male Bridget. Zellweger or female, can see a Jones's Diary" plays the embarrassing piece of themselves in mishaps and delivers her. 
the monologues with She is obsessed with absolute perfection. finding a nice, reliable Grant finally breaks boyfriend because she out offive shamrocks free from his typical is constantly reminded nice guy role to play a by all of the "smug "sex god," and he
Director: Sharon Maguire
marrieds" that her bio­proves to do it quite 
logical clock is ticking. Starring: Renee Zellweger, well. He and Zellweger Instead of a nice, reli-Hugh Grant and Colin Firth have electric chemistry 
Fans of the book, and many in the United Kingdom, were not pleased with the selection of Zell weger as Jones, citing she was way too skinny and, more importantly. not British. Thankfully, with an accent coach and a diet of hamburgers, pizza and candy, she was trans­formed into the perfect 

able boyfriend, she falls for her publishing house boss: Daniel Cleaver {Hugh Grant), "a bona fide sex god." Their relationship develops through flirta­tious e-mails at work. 
Meanwhile, Bridget's mother is try­ing to set her up with successful bar­rister, Mark Darcy (Colin Firth). a friend of the family whose wading pool Bridget used to run around naked in as a child. On several occa­sions, Bridget embarrasses· herself horribly in front of Darcy. Her verbal mishaps coupled with Darcy's stern and uninviting manner prevent them­from blossoming into friends, let alone a serious, responsible couple. 
The rest of the movie follows Bridget through a hysterical year in her diary of romantic luck, misfor­tune, professionalism on the job and progression towards inner poise. 
that pulls the viewer 
into their scenes. 

Colin Firth also perfectly captures his role as a serious lawyer who just can't express himself very well. Other shining additions to the cast are Bridget's parents, played by Jim Broadbent and Gemma Jones. 
The success of "Bridget Jones's Diary" must also be accredited to all who worked behind the camera. Their tight relations to the characters and the story are a winning formula. 
The book's author. Helen Fielding, played an intricate part in bringing her novel to the screen. She worked alongside writers Andrew Davies (who wrote a TV version of "Pride and Prejudice," which "Jones" is loosely based on) and Richard Curtis {who also wrote two other Hugh Grant movies: "Four Weddings and a Funeral" and "Notting Hill"). 

MOVIE REVIEW 
A breezy moviegoing experience, 'Joe Dirt' is 
him at the Grand Canyon at age 8, and
ByJUDE SEYMOUR 
how his search to find them lead to a 
Scene Movie Critic 
friendship with the beautiful Brandy (Brittany Daniel) and run-ins with a 
The current fascination with the hooligan, Robby (Kid Hock). mullet hairdo has been propagating Zander's original intention was to amongst college kids faster than the make fun of Joe Dirt's "white trash" time it takes to sell N*SYNC tickets to upbringing, but as the story unfolds young teenage girls. Zander's sarcasm drops and the 
"Mullet" is a slang search for Joe's parents term for a style of hair­begins. cut in which the front "Joe Dirt" "Joe Dirt" is a comedy half is short (or missing) that sometimes forgets 
and the back part is left 
its place and slips into flowing, long and often moments of unrealistic unkempt. melodrama. When it's 
out offive shamrocks 
The mullet haircut has not tackling larger life 
become associated with a issues such as love and group of people dubbed Director: Dennie Gordon family, though, it is quite "white trash," which is a entertaining. ' 
Starring: David Spade,
slang designation some As his adventures use when they want to Brittany Daniel, Dennis Miller become ridiculously feel superior to those and Kid Rock entertaining, Joe Dirt 
who are uneducated, live becomes a character you in trailers and watch can laugh at and laugh NASCAR on Sundays. with. The dialogue is by no means 
"Joe Dirt" is the first movie to capi­thought provoking, but it hits its marks talize on this hair craze, with David in extended joke sequences, making Spade playing the mulleted lead char­the movie's 86 minutes easy to sit acter. through. 
Joe is a janitor at radio station KXLA Joe Dirt is not a stretch for an actor when an obnoxious D.J., Zander Kelly like David Spade, but it certainly pro­(Dennis Miller), invites him onto his vides a new character for his routine. show to tell his life story in a multi­Gone is the smarmy brainiac that dom­part segment airing during the morn­inated Spade's best known works. 
ing drive. Joe is someone who is humiliated Joe tells how his parents abandoned and makes mistakes that exemplify his 
-



w 

M 
c~ne E 
Thursday, April 19, 2001 page 13 

Jones' to life 
First-time film director. Sharon Maguire, is a close friend of Fielding as well. In fact, Jones' friend, Shazzer, is based on Maguire. This tight­knit team captures the book and the characters very well. 
Some scenes have been added and, of course, not everything is included; but fans of the book will certainly love the film version of 
easy to tolerate 
ineptitude. At the same time, he seems more like a carica­ture than a real person. His last name, Dirt, comes to symbolize any person who embodies the characteristics made fun of by this movie. 
Perhaps Joe Dirt realizes his own commonness when he deliberately speaks of his fondness to slip an "e" on the end of his name so it sounds more elegant (it would be pronounced "dirt-chay"). 
"Bridget Jones's Diary." They may even leave the theatre wanting to read it again. 
Even those who have not (yet) read the novel will enjoy the movie, for they'll meet a character they can't help but love. 
There is a little part of Bridget Jones that shines in all of us, especially when we do something embarrassing. 
"Joe Dirt" does not try to end by making some deep statement about life. Instead, its focus is to entertain, and it strings together good jokes about one type of person without reveling in it. 
"Dirt's" conservative run­time suggests its producer understands how long a joke can be funny, and this aware­ness results in a piece that will make audiences laugh quite a lot. 


. . . 
<:>:>,-. 
.·.··.. t4l07'· 

Photo counesy of Columbia Pictures "Joe Dirtl'f is short on character development, but it makes up for its shortcomings with solid jokes. 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 

Photo courtesy of Kit Parker Films 
The 1970 documentary, "Gimme Shelter," is available to rent on video. 
'Shelter' captures The Stones' highs and lows 
By MATT NANIA 
Scene Movie Editor 

The Rolling Stones may or may not be the world's greatest rock 'n' roll band, but during the years 1968 to 1972, they could do no wrong. During that time they released four undeniable masterpieces: "Beggars Banquet," "Let It Bleed," "Sticky Fingers" and "Exile on Main Street." So even if "Gimme Shelter" were a mere document of a Holling Stones concert, it would already be a great film. But "Gimme Shelter" is more. It's about a time when things began to get out of hand. 
When the Rolling Stones decided to end its 1969 
front rows. He continually American tour with a free "Gimme Shelter" stops the music and implores concert at Altamont to the crowd to "cool it." His Speedway near San peace-and-love rhetoric about Francisco, everyone thought it Director: David and Albert Maysles being "brothers and sisters" is 
was going to be another and Charlotte Zwerin pathetically inadequate to Woodstock. People were pre­deal with the situation that
Starring: The Rolling Stones
pared for a night of peace and has been building for so long. 
love. The Hell's Angels were there to act as security. Tensions escalated. And a man named Meredith Hunter was stabbed to death. 
Directed by brothers David and Albert Maysles along with Charlotte Zwerin, "Gimme Shelter" perfectly captures the might of the Rolling Stones and the tragedy of this moment and effortlessly combines them. The directors cleverly took an extra day to film the band members -Mick Jagger, Keith Richards, Mick Taylor. Charlie Watts and Bill \Vyman -watching the footage of the concert and the stabbing. The looks on their faces, especially Jagger's, are astonishing. 
The movie begins with footage of the Stones playing in Madison Square Garden, in an uninter­rupted concert, so that we get a blast of their music and a taste of the excitement for the Altamont show. We then see images of lawyer Melvin Belli attempting to settle the details of the concert -parking. toilet facilities, etc. 
The documentary then focuses on the entire day of the Altamont concert, showing the growing crowd and their antics, covering some of the early acts such as the Flying Burrito Brothers and Jefferson Airplane. 
The whole time there is a growing sense of dread, even in the stark daylight. It is hard to describe, but there is just something wrong. Although many of the spectators appear happy and excited, others seem paranoid and agitated. 
"Gimme Shelter" seems to indicate that what is wrong is the presence of the Hell's Angels. The camera continually finds itself trained on the bik­ers, especially on their leather jackets with the Angel's insignia emblazoned on the back. Even when the Stones come on stage, the Angels' pres­ence dominates; the camera loses Jagger over and over again only to focus on those leatherjackets. 
In one telling shot, the camera concentrates on 
The crowd, stretched out end­lessly before the stage, which was so exhilarating at Madison Square Garden, has become ominous. 
It all climaxes with the on-screen stabbing. cap­tured on film completely by accident and almost unnoticeable unless one knows where to look. The camera catches only the first fleeting seconds of Hunter's death at the hands ofthe Angels, but it is enough. The moment is replayed twice in the doc­umentary. As Mick Jagger watches it on the edit­ing machine, co-director David Maysles slows down the scene so Jagger {and the viewer) can see exactly what happened. 
It is a chilling moment in which a camera was in the right place at the right time, much like the Zapruder film of Kennedy's assassination or George Holliday's video of the Rodney King beat­ing. Its existence on film serves to make it more real to us, which is all the more apparent when we realize that three other people died at Altamont the same night: yet it is Hunter's death, because it was forever captured on celluloid, that will always be associated with the concert. 
When "Gimme Shelter" was first released the­atrically, promoters tried to capitalize on its shocking nature, billing the film as "The music that thrilled the world ... and the killing that stunned it!" But the documentary as a whole is about much more. It is a powerful cinematic expe­rience precisely because, without narration or any other devices, it captures multiple aspects of its historical moment. There is both joy and terror, excitement and disillusionment. The Maysles brothers and Zwerin are smart enough to give everything to the viewer in a casual. observing journalistic style with no sentimentality or sensa• tion. 
All in all, "Gimme Shelter" is a film to reflect on and is a disturbing experience that is dillicult to forget. 
the hard gaze of a Hell's Angel glaring at Jagger, who is singing, out-of-focus, in the immediate foreground. It is this biker's gaze, rather than Jagger's, that captures and holds the camera lens. 
The Altamont concert eventually degenerates into violence between the Hell's Angels and the unruly members of the crowd. It starts early, dur­ing Jefferson Airplane's set, when the Angels start fighting with members of the crowd. Even lead singer Marty Balin gets caught up in the fight. 
It all comes to a head. though. when the Stones come on stage. 
Beginning with "Sympathy for the Devil," Jagger is unable to get through a single song without a scuffle breaking out in the 
.a tt
. 
page 14 

..
. 
I. Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
C.J. Murray, Danny Goodwin and Tyler Roberts putting in the rest. 
Live Fat, Die Young.com jumped out to an 11-6 half­time lead with its height advantage. It slowed down the stretch, letting Team 431 score five straight points to pull back into the contest before Koch's final basket. 
"It's a scrappy squad with a lot of talent,'' Kordik said of Team 431. 
Playing for Team 431 were five Zahm guys ­Mike Sena, John Tozlowski, Divish Ranjan, Nick Bondi and Greg "Smitty" Smith. 
A ranked team of the tour­

i:.. 
nament went down for the second time on Wednesday when Prill and Co. upset No. 28 Rival Pipe 21-15. 
" W e really got 
"We're going to destroy
into a "We're gonna rhythm NDToday. com next ... destroy r e a l NDToday.com
I guarantee a victory."
early," next," Tri said. said Prill "I guarantee a and Co.'s Carey Tri victory."Greg Sech. The No. 4
Four White Guys and a Castro 
"It was 9 ­3, so we were really feeling good, but they kind of closed in on us and the halftime score was 11-8." 
Rival Pipe didn't roll over and hand the win to Prill and Co. 
"They were definitely good,'' Sech said. "They had a strong inside presence from this guy that they called Rudy. In the second half, he got kind of injured. Another guy on the team was pretty much shooting lights out." 
In the end, though, the Prill brothers, Matt and Chris Prill, led the team named after them to victory and the round of 128. 
"Sixty-four has been my goal," Sech said. "I've never gotten past the round of 
256. I've always had some bad draws. Now I'm in uncharted territory." 
Castro did something right as Four White Guys and Castro dictated over Dumper 21u8. 
"Castro here came over on a boat about five years ago," joked Four White Guys and Castro player Carey Tri of his teammate Rene Perez, whose Cuban background gave the team its name. 
"They were a lot better than the team we played the other day," Perez said of Dumper. 
Dumper's squad of Phil Dittmar, John Heyl. Dean Karalis, Tim Ryan and Ryan Regan dropped behind early and couldn't catch up. 
"It was really physical," said Dittmar, a former Fisher resident. "They came to play. 
Sean Williams, Dan Kaiser and Nick Kheriaty joined Perez and Tri on the wir.­ning team. Four White Guys and Castro won the right to take on No. 3 seed NDToday.com. 
NDToday.com's high rank­ing doesn't scare Tri, who 
promised 
another win. 
.,eeded 
Majesties didn't have much trouble getting past He Hate Me, advancing with a 21-12 win. 
The Majesties, with a team of Corey Hartmann, Justin Heberle, Derek Gautier. Matt \Volbeck and Sean McCarthy, were able to sink their shots to get past He Hate Me. 
"Usually teams kind of have a cakewalk the first few games," Hartmann said. "They made us work. It's good to get competition in an early round game. 
He Hate Me had the unen­viable task of trying to beat a top-five team in the sec­ond round. 
"It would have been nice to play them in a later round when we were play­ing a little better," said He Hate Me's Joe Napolitano. "I think they're probably one of the top two or three teams in the tournament, so it was going to be a tough game either way." 
"&& I 
Thursday, April 19, 2001 

The Observer . SPORTS 

Bookstore Basketball Results, April 18 
Malicious Prostitution def. Team 309, 21-15 4 People Who Have Game ... def. Team 359, 21-14 5 Kilts, No Safety Pins def. We're a Bunch of Quitters, 21-17 Bootey League All-Stars def. Gold Band Bandits, 21-11 Adelaide & Her Garden Hoes def. 5 Biz Majors ... , Forfeit Drill & Co. def. Rival Pipe, 21-15 4 White Guys and Castro def. Dumper, 21-8 Usual Suspects def. Goodfellas, 21-17 Team 573 def. Team 171, 21-9 Narnian Thugs def. Off the Chain, 21-2 Dark Sack Cloth & Ashes def. We're Gonna Suck, 21-11 TheOnion.com def. Who Shot the Couch IV: TheFinal Schwartz, 23-21 
Majesties def. He Hate Me, 21-12 Team 355 def. We're Soo Lazy ... , 21-7 Leviathan def. I Can't Believe it's Not Cocoa Butter, 21-12 Irvin Jones def. I Think I Broke My Wookie, 21-10 Absolute Curlies def. Burned Out Porn Stars, 21-11 Cop & 1/2 Starring Tim def. The Sublime Directory Chris Burke & The Uncooked Macaroni's ' def. Children of the 80s, 21-15 Team 103 def. Hardcore Strokers, 21-13 The Benchwarmers def. Booh-Yeah, 21-13 Lazyboyz def. Team 539 Team 180 def. Bricklayers Local 956, 21-13 The Pilsbury's def. Hoosier Daddies, 23-21 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid.
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Europe $199 one way.  An adorable 1.5 bdrm. House w/  Newly remodeled 5 bedroom house  ROOMS FOR GRAD WEEKEND  Retired ND staffer & spouse wish to  
;_:-...,  Mexico/Carribbean or Central  garage by St. Patrick'spark. 702·  available to rent for tall semester. 2  Wild Irish Rose Inn  apt. for summer. Reliable, non- 
FOR SALE  America $250 round trip plus tax Other world wide destinations  436-1594.  full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec room, security system.  3mi north of campus •brkfst buffet ea AM  smokers, no pets, have family in area. 135 Lakeview dr., Mulberry Fl.  
cheap. If you can beat these prices  Rent for fall semester  *clean, comfortable & afford•  33860 (863} 425-4404 or call our  
Car For Sale!I  start your own airline Book tickets  4 bedrooms, 2 full baths,  Call now to see 277-0636  able  dau2hter localll at 256-2335.  
1995 Ford Aspire  on line www.airtech.com or toll free  washer&dryer, basement w/ hot  (2190 277-4303 or  
$2,000 perfect condition!  (877)AIRTECH  tub, new furnance, security system. Call 277 -0636  1 br sublet 5/15-8/15, Downers Grove, IL, w/d, dw, ale,  www.wilgirisbrQ~~-!.Q!!l  PERSONAL  
Call Heather @ 243-0125  great complex, room for 2 people,  
1985 mazda 626  FOR RENT  SUMMER RENTAL 821 E. Wash 5 bed $200/mo  $890/mo+util Rachel 312-498-6579  WANTED  Indiana Catholic couple with huge hearts wishing to adopt a child. We  
Great condition  Eric 243-2902  CHICAGO APT.  can provide your baby with lots of  
$1,350 or best offer  EXECUTIVE SUITE: One bedroom  Hoping to house sit or rent your  love and a secure, stable life.  
call 634-4296 for more info  furnished executive suite ­cable &  New home Fall 2001. This 3+  AVAILABLE FOR MAY THROUGH  hor:10, furnished/unfurnished, unitl  Reasonable expenses will be paid.  
local phone, housekeeping included  bdrm, 3 bath homw is close to cam- AUGUST IN LINCOLN PARK  summer 2002. Married couple,  For more info, please call Rebecca  
Oakhill Condo ­4 bdr/3 bath  1 @ $60/night (football/graduation  pus with features like fireplace,  LOCATION. CLOSE TO EL  early 40s • professional + student,  re Larry and Cathy: toll-free 1-866­ 
1/2 mile from campus  weekend rates higher). (219) 271­ cahedral ceilings, family room,  no kids. Call 616.697.5307 or  30-ADOPT.  
fireplace, deck, pool access  6808 or e-mail: www.belleterre­ deluxe appliances, 24x30 garage.  1 or 2 BEDROOMS  270.659.0096  
$99,000/best offer  suite@aol.com. ND Alum  $1400/mo. Call 219-232-4527 or  OWN BATHROOM  Eating concerns survey 2000; sum•  
call Tim @ 612-802·0285  owned/managed. Near ND.  616-683-5038.  $780/mo.  Summer daytime sitter for three  mary results now available on  
1 ·312-443-6062 JAi ME  girls ages 12 to 5. 273-3010  University counseling Center's Web  
Oak Hill Condo for rent. 2 bdrm, 2  Looking to share/sublet summer  Fifth roomate needed for first  page.  
bath. Available June 1. 1-765-362­ apartment. Will be performing  semester. House is close to cam- Studio apt. in quiet neighborhood  Graduating seniors:  http://www.nd.edu:/-ucc/ucc_ed_su  
1040. Ask tor John  internship in South Bend May 13  pus. Call Dan at 4-2091.  near Notre Dame.  Looking to sell your apartment fumi­ rvey_2000.html  
through August 18. Non-smoker.  ture (beds, desks, couches, etc)?  
5 miles from Notre Dame  (419) 352-4136  Apt. starting June 1. 2 Bdrm 2 Bath.  Unfurnished, cable, patio; $330/mo.  ND juniors looking to buy. Call Nick  LADIES: Take a study break and  
Close to everything  (timgoodenow@yahoo.com)  W/0 Minutes to campus. Call 243­ Plus electric. Available June. Tel:  at 4-4716 if interested.  meet guys, make fun of them. or  
4 bedrooms 1.5 baths recently  0070.  616-687-8924  both with the new ThatGuy! Game  
-i.  remodeled  lake living bear Bremen  Job Opportunity 2001-2002  As seen in In Style, Glamour &  
Main level laundry finished base- most pets okay  Nice 3-bdrm 1-1/2 bath Tri-level,  3-6 BDRM HOMES  Four ND families looking tor ere- Entertainment Weekly. Endless  
ment  new 3 bedroom  family room, fireplace, fenced back  $180 per person  alive tutor to instruct grade school  Fun! $9.99 at  
2076 living area  air, garage, disposal, dishwaher  yard, 2-car garage. $995/mo  Furn.  children in home setting. Ed.  www.tbatgy~garn~.i;;Qm  
plenty of storage  $950/monthpage 219·935-7845 or  Call 219-232-4527  Summer/Fall  Degree not req. Normal school cal- 
Call 256-0698  call 546-4430  Or 616-683-5038  272-6306  endar.Call 254-9466  AM-they cook it at your table, nice!  

Thursday, April 19, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT · page 15 
student union 
HAPPENING§ 
WEEK· OF APRIL 19 -i!Ei , · 
Movies: Traffic. The Contender. 4/19. Thursday. 101. 155. DeBartolo 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 4/20. Friday. 101. 155. DeBartolo 0800PM & 1030PM. 4/21. Saturday. 101. 155. DeBartolo 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 
4/19. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle 0900PM-1200AM. Dinner Theater: 1939 Nightclub Murders. 4/19. Thursday. LaFortune Ballroom. 0800PM Free Concert. Organist Karen Schneider-Kirner with the ND Celebration Choir, Soprano Michele Dachtler Warner, and Oboist Andrea Mather. 4/20. Friday. Church of Loretto 0700PM St. Mary's College Actor/poet Mums. 4/21. Saturday. LaFortune Ballroom. 0900PM "You Can Count on Me". 4/21. Saturday. Snite. 0730 & 0945PM Tickets: $2 Handball Choir & Celebration Choir Concert. 4/22. Sunday. Basilica. 0800PM (following Easter Vespers) Notre Dame Students' Exhibition 4/22 -5/20 Snite. All Day. 
WEEK OF MARCH 1 -7 · 
Movies: Proof of Life. Billy Elliot. 4/26. Thursday. 101. 155. De Bartolo 1030PM. 4/27. Friday. 101. 155. DeBartolo 0800 & 1030PM. 4/28. Saturday. 1 01. 155. DeBartolo 0800 & 1030PM. 
Antostal. 4/25 -4/28. Wednesday -Saturday. Free Laundry. 
4/26. Thursday. Badin Annex & LaFun Basement KGB Band 4/27. Friday. North Quad. 0800PM. Acousticafe. 4/26. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle 0900PM-1200AM. 
. 
----------" --­

------------,---------------------------------------------·----.. ..... 
page 16 Thursday, April 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS 
big part in the second half turnaround, fought game and then emotionally tired armed robberies at off-campus students' according to Corrigan. from the situation Friday night, we didn't · homes last week. 
Lacrosse 

"When you have a young team some­seem to have our usual enthusiasm and With the win, Notre Dame stands at 
times they don't realize the adjustments pep today. It was a game where we had 10-1 overall and 4-0 in the GWLL. The
continued from page 24 

they need to make until the next day to grind it out and we did that pretty we,l Irish have all but clinched the league 
season with 6:28 remaining in the sec­ond. The Tewaaraton finalist, an award which goes to the best male lacrosse player in the country, came from behind the net and fired a shot past Butler goalie Brendan Winkler as Glatzel was falling to the ground. 
Chris Aitkin answered Glatzel with a Bulldog goal but that was the last of the afternoon for Butler. 
After Aitkin tied the game at 3, Harvey scored the first of his three goals 25 sec­onds later. 
fired 28 shots at Winkler in the first half but a combination of bad bounces and spectacular saves limited the effective­ness of the offense. The Bulldog junior made six saves in the second quarter and seemed to stuff every Irish opportu­nity. 
"He definitely kept them in there in the first half," Ulrich said. "When a goalie is hot like that there isn't much you can do. You have to keep plugging it in there." 
The Irish launched another 25 shots at Winkler in the second half but this time seven of them found their target. 
Harvey, Ryan and David Ulrich each scored two more goals in the second half while David's twin brother Todd Ulrich chipped in one as well. 
Senior leadership once again played a when they look at it on film," Corrigan today." title and an automatic bid to the NCAA said. "But we've got seniors out there South Bend police have arrested five tournament. The 10-1 start is Notre and Tommy [Glatzel] and David [Ulrich] suspects in relationship to a pair of Dame's best since 1994. 

Fland in a 

"When you have a Friday night
scored a goal off a time out young team sometimes played a role 
in the sloppy
just before they don't realize the 


first half,
halftime to give 
adjustments needed until 

according to
the Irish a 5-3 

halftime lead the nest day ... Corrigan. "We were
and the rout 

very emo­
was on. 
Kevin Corrigan 

tionally tired
The Irish 

men's lacrosse coach today. I give 
got comfortable with what they needed to do and they did it." 
The physically drain­ing win against Army this weekend combined with mental exhaustion following the armed robbery of several players at their homes 
our guys 
credit for battling through the last two games," Corrigan said. "On Friday night at 2:30 in the morning I am standing in the middle of a parking lot in Turtle Creek [an off­c."' mpus apartment complex where the robbery took place] with half our team. Because even the guys who weren't involved were there to make sure our other gutsy were OK. Playing phys­ically tired from a hard 
Ulrich 
continued from page 24 
shot past the Bulldog goalie to set the record for Ulrich. 
Harvey and Ulrich hooked up again four minutes later for Ulrich's best assist ofthe day. 
Coming off a timeout, two Bulldog defenders tightly guard­ed Ulrich at the edge of the box. He quickly juked to his right before slicing between the two defenders and breaking wide 

-open toward the goal. 
The remaining Bulldog defenders converged on Ulrich leaving Harvey wide open at the i edge of the crease. Ulrich I ~ passed him the ball for an easy
l 
goal. 

"A lot of times teams who are overly aggressive on the double teams will prevent you from going either left of right but they won't stop you from going up the middle," Ulrich said. "You just bait them into thinking you are going one way but then you cut back through the middle." 
Ulrich nearly picked up sever­al more assists late in the game but his passes sailed just wide or his teammates' shots clanged off the post. 
"I was trying to break [the record] towards the end when I knew the game was in hand," he said. "1 was trying to throw it to everyone. My buddy Tom [Glatzel] who usually hits every­thing I throw him, hit the goalie in the face mask and on the pipe." 
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! 
Announcing The Fulbri~ht Competition for Wijl,WijJ. 
All fmt year stuOenffi, sophomores anU especially juniors interesteU in GraUuate ~tuUy ADroaO, Uon't miss the informational meeting wiili ProfessorAn&ew Goulu 
WeOilesOay evening, April 1), W!lIat 0:(l(l pm in room BO DeBartolo _ _J 
,...,,· : 
~i~ 
)/· 
( 
•.·. 

. ;tt·  
t. \•.  ' . .. ··•~·­ i1;fl-=..  
•I . ·­ 
.:•:1:::-.-~t"t~~J~~~;  ·  .-.  
~-•·t  
,,/ !,:\r>~,~,-: . .  ••--•·  I  •  . •  

.... ,:.::~\~ In L°-v~~~--~~~~r~_ of)_ · · ·Our Courageous FriendsI 
I . ------~ 
Brionne Clary 1 Conor Murphy 
r

Miranda Thomas 
l ----..··----.. 

Where: In front of McGlinn Hall When: This Sunday, April 22 
Registration begins at 2:00, Race at 3:00pm Cost: $10.00 (includes t-shirt and post-race refreshments) More Info: www.nd.edu/~welshhal/ Sign-Ups: LaFortune Wed-Fri from 1l-2 and 5-7 
NDH Wed 11-2 and 5-7 Race day or Online 
Proceeds to benefit Brionne and Conor's Scholarship Funds and the Leukemia Society Sponsored by: Welsh Family Hall, Zahm Hall, and the College Democrats 


REMINDER~ 

-National Youth Sports Program Students -Summer Service Project Internship Students -Leadership Interns -ACCION Interns 
cse_: 

C.£ .. Tl:lt fo• 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
•Summer Service Project Internship Orientation• April 18 (Wednesday) or April 19 (Thursday) 
(WHICHEVER YOU SIGNED UP FOR) 
from 6:30 -9:30 P.M. at the Center for Social Concerns 
SSP Students please bring: 
• your completed Information Sheet and your • Personal Statement 
See you Wednesda)' or Thursday evening! 
Thursday, April 19, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Calendar of Events 
Friday-Sunday, April 20-22 
Fatima Retreat Center 
NDE Retreat #66 
Friday, April 20, 8:00 p.m, 
Coleman-Morse Student Lounge · 
807 -A New Mass on Friday Nights 
Friday. April 20. 7:00 p.m. 
Church of Loretto. St. Mary's College 
Organ Concert -Karen Schneider-Kirner 
Guests: Notre Dame Celebration Choir, 
Soprano Michele Dachtler Warner, 
and oboist Andrea Mather. 
Free Admission. 
Sunday. April 22. 10:00 a.m. 
330 Coleman-Morse Center 
RCIAClass 
Mass at 11:45 
Sunday. April 22. 1:30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Patrick M. Neary, csc 
Sunday. April 22, 8:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Notre Dame Handbell Choir Concert Notre D~e Celebration Choir 
Monday, April 23, 7:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Sacrament ofConfinnation Bishop Danit:l R. Jenky 
Monday-Tuesday, April 23-24. 11 :30 pm-10:00pm St. Paul's Chapel. Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, April 24, 7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, April 25. 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel .:, •' 
Interfaith Christian Night.Prayer , 
; 

Wednesda~ April 25. 8:00 p.m. Basilig1 ofthe Sacred Heart 
Notre Dame Chorale Concert 
Second Sunday of Easter 
,, , 
Weekend Presiders 
• Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, April 21 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. Richard· M. Ginther 
Sunday, April 22 Mass I 0:00 a. m. Rey. •William; R. Dailey, c.s.c. 11:454.m~~· Seari o·. McGraw> c.s.c.­
.· .. _. \~~ ~;/: ·<,·. ~-,.~· ·,. . ,~ . ;~. _-,. ~-_:· ·;?:~· ... :. 
Scripture Readings.· ,! for this Coming Sunday 


1st Reading Acts 5: 12-16 2nd Reading Rv 1: 9-1 la, 12-13,17-19 
Gospel Jn 20: 19-31 
525,600 Minutes 
by Amy Seamon 
This past fall I went to the Morris Civic Center to watch a touring production of Rent, a Broadway musical dealing with relationships, work, drugs and alcohol and even death. A real upper, I know. I actually had tickets to see the show four times before this past October. I was beginning to lose hope that I would never sing along with the lyrics of the songs I had learned by heart since the day the show won Best Musical in 1996. 
I have always loved going to the theater and watching stories come to life through song and dance. In fact, my first real job when I was a Sophomore in high school was working at Stage Door, a theater store in Grand Rapids selling tickets and merchandise for countless Broadway shows and cabaret acts. Each day I went into work and immersed myself in the world of musical theater singing along with every show tune played in the store and even making several sad attempts at choreographing a few numbers. I had the time of my life telling customers about shows coming to town and the latest crazes on Broadway. I remember telling them about Rent and singing about love, laughter, tears and pain. 
This past Saturday night I celebrated the Easter Vigil in the Basilica of the Sacred He;;.n-c. How many times I had been in that space before, either singing with the Folk Choir during my undergraduate years or ducking in at lunchtime for daily mass, and taken it all for granted. At the vigil I decided I could no longer take chis place for granted. There is something so special and sacred about celebrating Holy Week at the University of Notre Dame that it is hard not to notice that something truly special is going on here...How do you measure a year in the life? 
Holy Week really kicked off for me when I celebrated Campus-Wide Stations of the Cross and Reconciliation with over one thousand people on the Tuesday night before Easter. I was helping to direct traffic ·and make sure the cross was put in the "perfect place" when my friend Laura whispered to look behind me. As I turned to see the light of one thousand candles flooding the Maestrovic Memorial I forgot about the logistics ofguiding this mob through campus. I had been reminding the dorm commissioners, in the weeks of preparation, chat this 
525,600 moments so dear. 525,600 minutes. How do you measure, measure a year? In daylights, in sunsets, in midnight's, in cups of coffee? In inches, in miles, in laugh­ter, in strife? In 525,600 minutes? How do you measure a year in the life? How about love? Measure in love. Seasons oflove. 
life ... in laughter. .. 
prayer-filled event was more about the actual doing, the actual walk of the stations, rather than the words chat were said, but I never fully believed it until I saw the light drawing people closer together .. .in inches, in miles ... 
Thursday night I attended Holy Thursday Mass with my parents and Michael, my oldest brother. My mom sat next to me praying her rosary and giving me a smile every once in awhile to remind me how much this time of year at this place means to her faith 
Friday night I was in the Basilica once again for Stations and my heart was filled with music, words and pictures telling of the cruel and humiliating story ofa man who was crucified because he loves me...in strife ... 
Finally, as members of this Eucharistic Community we gathered in the Basilica on Sunday evening and convened this space to serve as the largest dorm chapel on campus. This is my home, our home. Who couldn't be fired up about Easter and the resurrection ofJesus Christ after a celebration like the one we had this past weekend? 525,600 moments so dear. .. 
But now it's Thursday following Easter and we all have work to do. Finals are right around the corner. Decisions concerning jobs for the summer and beyond need to be made. Papers are due. Tests must b~ taken. All of a sudden we are in a panic about the time ahead and forget about the time we just had. 
I sat in the Basilica this past week, much the same way I sat in the Morris Civic Center, listening to the words of the familiar and powerful music I had heard so often for what seemed like the very first time. How do you measure a year? In daylights, in sunsets, in midnighls, in cups ofcoffee? In exams, in papers, in meetings, in class? 525,600 minutes. How can you measure ltJ" life ofa woman or a man? In truths that she learned, or in times that he cried? In bridges he burned, or the way that she died? It's time now to sing out, although it's not the end. To celebrate, remember a year in the life ofa friend. 
I know we can't stop studying or working as the semester comes to a close. But let's not forget to keep on praying and thanking God for the gifts that He has given to us this Easter season. Remember that it is in the good times and the bad that God is with us. So maybe take an extra walk to the grotto, not just during finals week, but out of the blue. Invite a friend to the Coleman-Morse Center and treat them to a soda and some popcorn on Campus Ministry. Walk around the lakes and look up every once awhile to breathe in the beauty of this campus. Celebrate Easter not just one Sunday out ofthe year, but for the season. 525,600 minutes ... 
Remember the Easter season we continue to celebrate. Remember the love. Measure in love. Seasons oflove. 
(:M
J" I 
Campus Ministry 

WWW.,... 
SOFTBALL 

Miller: communication key to coaching philosophy 
• 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 19, 2001 
w 

was where she spent most of game was like.
By PETER FRASSO 

her time, watching her brothers "There used to be no expecta­
Sports Writer 

and father play. tions. Now there's pressure. "I grew up at the baseball Athletes today play for different 
Two players sat in Liz Miller's park," Miller said. "I never got reasons than they did twentyoffice early in the afternoon, dis­to play, but I was always there. years ago." cussing drills. We were a baseball family." Miller cites two reasons 
Miller's voice could be heard After going to Western among others. Today's players 
on the out­

Michigan as a field hockey and can advance further into softball side -very 
volleyball star, eventually being after college, either through the 
confident 

named to the Western Michigan new pro league, or by playing and direct, 
Athletic Hall of Fame and play­for the national team. Four of yet with a ing six summers on an this year's current squad have 
sincere 

American Softball Association been selected to try out for quality nes­travel team, she taught physical Team USA. 
tled in the 

education and dabbled in coach­Another reason is for the free tone. ing basketball, volleyball and education. 
"Com­

Miller track. She also began her soft­"A lot of the student athletes munication ball coaching career in the sum­we have at Notre Dame could 
is the key," 

mers. not have afforded to come with­said Miller, outlining her philos­After four years in the class­out a scholarship," said Miller. 
ophy on coaching today's ath­room, she was approached by The players themselves are letes. "You have to be able to Lake Michigan Community also different. 
work with the athlete:,." 

College in 1974. Only two years "Back then, when I played, we Miller, who has coached soft­after Title IX had been passed, practiced maybe 10 hours a ball for 26 years and has been she was offered the position of week. Now, we put in 30, 40 
at Notre Dame for nine, finally women's athletics director, a hours. Players are so special­got her 900th win last Saturday position that, at the time, had ized now. We could play three in the second game of a double­
not existed. or four sports. Today, you have header vs. Pittsburgh. "When I Her situation is different now. to choose only one," she said. 
think of 900 wins, I think two "The challenge is patience. Between a strict training regi­

things," Miller said. "First is Sometimes you just want it to men, pushy parents and the "Wow, that's a lot of years.' happen a lot faster," said Miller, growth in competitiveness,Second. I think of all of the regarding the development of Miller fears some players lose 
changes that have occurred over women's athletics since she sight of why they play. 

! 
that span. Staying in coaching started. "If I had quit coaching 'Td like to believe that the is about changing your 
15 years ago, I would have read majority of the athletes who are approach with regard to ath­about all of the advancements competing also do it for the love 
letes." 
that final~y have come today in a of the game," she said. 
After 26 years, 26 teams. over newspaper and wished,. 'Hey, I When starting the Lake 1000 games and hundreds of 
wish I was still coaching.' I'm Michigan women's athletic pro­
athletes. there have been a lot of glad I'm still around to see it," gram completely from scratch,changes in women's athletics. she said. 
Miller coached volleyball, bas­Miller grew up involved with Miller remembers when she ketball and softball. She enjoyed many sports, but the ballpark first started coaching what the success in all three, showing 

-Commerce and Bevond 
lecture Series 


j 
l 
February 2 Khalil Matta (Director, MIS Program, University of Notre Dame) "Overview of the Lecture Series" 
February 9 Allen Hammond (ClO and Senior Scientist, World Resources Institute) "Impact of GlobalizationH 
February 16 Joe McCarthy (Researcher, Accenture -Ctr. for Strategic Technology) .. Awareness and Collaboration in the Workplace of the Future" 
February 23 Mike Mazon (President Henry L. Stimson Center) I -sociology and Psychology of People in the Electronic 
Workplace" March 2 Greg Hedges (Partner, eBusiness Risk Consulting, Arthur Andersen 
I . "Privacy Concerns in the Electronic Age" 
March 23 Bob Reilly (President, DHR International) .. New Age Leadership Skills" 
co-sponsored by "Leadership for Competitive Advantage and Personal Success" lecture series 
March 30 Gary Reiner (Senior VP and CIO, General Electric) "Technology and E-commerce Organizations: Future DirectionsH 
April 6 Bob Buckman (Ret. Board Chairman and President, Buckman Labs) "Knowledge Management in the New Millennium" 
April 20 Dan Hesse (Chairman, President, CEO, Terabeam Networks) "Wireless and Optical Technologies and their Implications" 

Unlvtrslty of Notre Dame 
are welcome to attend Mendoza College of Business 
that coaching goes beyond strictly knowledge _of a specific sport. 
Years passed, and after build­ing the softball team into a regional power, she became head athletic director, the first woman to hold that post in the state of Michigan. She eventual­ly gave up the duties of basket­ball and volleyball to concen­trate on softball. In 17 seasons, she compiled a .792 winning percentage, amassed 541 wins, and had ten national top 10 fin­ishes. 
After years of dominance at LMC, she was contacted by Notre Dame, with a softball pro­gram still in its infancy after only two years of existence. 
"I remember sitting at the din­ner table with my family. and I was telling them that I was thinking about the job offer from Notre Dame. My son, who was a junior in high school at the time, said to me, 'What exactly would you be thinking about? There•~ nothing to think about."' 
While she has never won less that 30 games as Notre Dame's head coach, this year's team is 36·3, and ranked 11th in the country, the highest ever in the program's short history. 
Miller attributes her success to several things. 
"Recruiting is key -being able to get players who have the ability to learn. whoever the coaching staff is," she said. 
Miller recruits a special type of person for Notre Dame. 
"They're not going to succeed if they come to Notre Dame only wanting to be a great softball player. You have to want to be a great player, a great student and a great person," said Miller. "Another key is surrounding myself with people who are also very good at what they do. That is what I would attribute our success to. what a great job our assistant coaches do." 
Success is not black and white all the time though. "It's not about wins and losses, it's about the process. When I know there's a particular player that has worked and worked to be successful at a certain thing, and you see them succeed; when that moment happens. that's what brings the satisfac­tion." 
And after all of her success. what would she say to a prospective coach? 
"Do it for the right reasons. Do it because you love to work with athletes. And remember ­communication is the key." 

7:00 pm, Thursday @Reckers: WHAT YOU CAN DO TO HElP MAKf 
teaturing: 
Prd+ Jon Nagle 
Prcl! Charles Kulpa. Jr. and Pnlf. Don ~porleder in a ~UPfR hip rap st1ion1 

EVERY DAYAN EARTH DAY 

brought to YOU by the 
nd environmentallaw 
society 



Thursday, April 19, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
STANLEY CUP PLAYOFFS 
Halpern's overtime goal powers Caps past Penguins 4-3 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Jeff Halpern scored Washington's first even-strength goal of the playoffs 4:01 into overtime to hold off a late Pittsburgh Penguins rally and the Capitals evened the series with a 4-3 vie­tory. 
Steve Konowalchuk scored two power­play goals and set up Halpern's goal ­Washington's first without a man advan­tage since its final regular-season game -as the Capitals made it 2-2 going into Game 5 Saturday in Washington. 
After Pittsburgh defenseman Marc Bergevin couldn't clear the puck from behind his net, the Capitals regained possession and Halpern one-timed Konowalchuk's pass to the left circle past rookie goalie Johan Hedberg. 
It was Washington's first even-strength goal in 263 minutes-plus of play. 
The Penguins were in position to go up 3-1 with one more game in Pittsburgh, if necessary, only to continue a long-per­
plexing inability to put away 

series. They are 2-7 in 
Game 4s when ahead, 
They're also 1-4 in their last 
five home playoff games. 
The Penguins -5-1 in playoff series against Washington since 1991 ­trailed l!i. midway through the third period following three Washington power­play goals, but tied it with man-advantage goals by Jaromir Jagr and Janne Laukkanen. 
It was the first game resembling a shootout in what had been a low-scor­ing series, with only seven goals combined by the teams in three games -or as many as were scored Wednesday. 
Jagr, scoreless in six con­secutive playoff games dat­ing to last year's second­round series against Pittsburgh, cut the Capitals' lead to 3-2 by poking a rebound of his own shot from the right circle between Olaf Kolzig's pads at 11: 14 -28 seconds after Ulf Dahlen drew a tripping penalty. 
Just over a minute later, the Penguins got another power play -a rarity dur­ing the third period of play­off games -when Joe Reekie held player-owner Mario Lemieux along the corner boards and wouldn't let go of his stick. 
This time, Jagr set up the goal. jump­ing on the puck in the slot and, switching from backhand to forehand, deflecting it off Robert Lang's skate to Laukkanen for a one-timer near the top of the left circle at 13:50. 
Laukkanen's tripping penalty allowed Brendan Witt to sail a knuckleball of a shot from the left point over Hedberg's shoulder, making it 2-1 Washington at 
19:16 of the second. 
It was a characteristically bad penalty for the Penguins, the NHL's most-penal­ized team during the regular season, a reflection of the oft-casual approach to defense by one of the league's highest­scoring teams. 
Konowalchuk later scored his second of the game to give Washington a 3-1 lead, one-timing Sergei Gonchar's pass off Hedberg's glove at 9:09 of the third. 
Konowalchuk also scored at 7:49 of the first with the Capitals on a power play. Seconds after a brief two-man advantage ended, but with the Capitals still on the power play, Konowalchuk pushed Calle Johansson's pass from the left circle into the net as he and Halpern crowded the crease in front of rookie goalie Johan Hedberg. 
Hurricanes 3, Devils 2 
The short-handed Carolina Hurricanes 
found their dormant offense to avoid a sweep by the New Jersey Devils. 
Rod Brind'Amour scored 46 seconds into overtime as the Hurricanes. missing injured captain Ron Francis and top rookie Shane Willis, stayed alive in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference quar­terfinals with a·victory. 
Sarni Kapanen and David Tanabe also scored power-play goals, and Kapanen set up Brind'Amour on the first shot of 
I 
the extra period. 
!
Kapanen broke in over the blue line, faked a shot, and then threw a pass to a streaking Brind'Amour, who poked it past Martin Brodeur for the winner. 


ANDERSEN 

Andersen is proud to welcome the following student~ from University of Notre Dame and Saint Marys College as new members of our worldwide organization in 2001. Chicago Kelly Potter Portland
Dennis Abdelnour Chicago Kirt Hartman Christopher Anderson Chicago James Herbe Chicago Richard Rebori New York Chicago Joseph Rydzewski Chicago
John Barber Chicago Jeremy Herzog John Barsic Pittsburgh Eileen Huie Chicago Amanda Sales Chicago New York Bridget Sample Seattle
David Bochenek Chicago Michelle Johnson Michael Bodart Pittsburgh Michael Kelly Chicago Erica Sciola Seattle Trisha Bollard Chicago John Khym Chicago James Shacklett Chicago 
Arthur Silva Chicago
Jill Borchardt Milwaukee Timothy Lane Chicago Theresa Bresnahan Chicago Sarah Le Sueur New York Garett Skiba Chicago Mary Calash Chicago Katherine Lewandowski Chicago Joseph Soviero New York 
Adam Stine Phoenix-Tucson
John Carlin Chicago Thomas Lockhart Minneapolis · Nicole Carri New York Meghan Lynch Chicago Jennifer Stirk Chicago Anne Sullivan Chicago
Mark Castleton San Francisco Adam Mallord Los Angeles Kathleen Tucker Chicago
T. Jordan Curnes Chicago Patrick McGrath Boston Nicole Turnipseed Chicago
Elizabeth Donnell-Fink Chicago Elizabeth McS_hane Chicago Ryan Verlin New York
Kerry Doolin Chicago Eric Monroe Atlanta Rebecca Welch Boston
Anne Fischesser Chicago Stephanie Morris Chicago Michael Whalen Chicago
Maureen Flood Chicago Kristen Mozina Chicago Mary Beth Willard Pittsburgh
Kimberly Guy Chicago Lauren Murphy Chicago Christopher Wolf Chicago
John Harkins Seattle Wendy Neumann Chicago Brian Hart Seattle Brett Perkins Chicago 
www.andersen.com 
C 2001 Andersen. All rights reserved. 
--·--~-----------------------------------------­
page 20 Thursday, April 20, 200I
The Observer . SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Ro.driguez and Texas escape Seattle with 8-6 victory 

Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

Alex Rodriguez doubled and drove in a run as the Texas Rangers salvaged the final game of his return-to-Seattle series with an 8-6 victory over the Mariners. 
The Rangers ended Seattle's four-game winning streak and beat the Mariners for the sec­ond time in six games this sea­son. 
Rafael Palmeiro hit his third homer of the series, a two-run shot in the first inning. Chad Curtis led off the fourth with a homer off Brett Tomko (0-1). 
Doug Davis (2-1) gave up solo home runs to John Olerud, David Bell and Ichiro Suzuki. Jeff Zimmerman got his first save. 
The crowd of 43,823 booed Rodriguez, Texas' $252 million All-Star shortstop who left Seattle after last season, but not with the fervor it had the previous two nights. More fake money floated down from the upper deck at Safeco Field. but there were fewer signs. 
After Rodriguez left the field when he was called out at sec­ond on a fielder's choice in the eighth, he gave a small wave to heckling fans on the third-base side as he entered the Texas dugout. . 
In his first of three series in Seattle this season, Hodriguez was 3-for-12, with a double, a run scored and an RBI. 
The fans also booed their own manager, Lou Piniella, when he left in Tomko in the fifth after he gave up doubles to Andres Galarraga and Ken Caminiti and singles to Curtis and Ruben Mateo. The hits produced two runs and made it 7-2. 
Giants 5, Dodgers 4 

Barry Bonds homered in his sixth straight game and the San Francisco Giants rallied to remain unbeaten at Pacific Bell Park, defeating the Los Angelfl~ Dodgers. 
Bonds, who hit his 500th career home run Tuesday night, became the first NL player to homer in six straight since Graig Nettles did it for San Diego in 1984. 
The major league record for homers in consecutive games is eight. last accomplished by Seattle's Ken Griffey Jr. in 1993. 
San Francisco improved to 5­0 at Pac Bell Park. It is the best home start for the Giants since they opened at 5-0 at Candlestick Park in 1973. 
The Dodgers have been involved in six consecutive one­run decisions, losing four of them. 
After Chan Ho Park (2-1) struck out the first two batters in the Giants· seventh, Marvin Benard doubled. Rich Aurilia 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
st

The Students' 1 choice in Off-Campus Housing 
DON'T WAIT APPLY TODAY!!!! 
P: 272-8124 
. ''" .. ,. 
.. 
s.x.10-... -s1ao+OEP 
.··....lO,tl0.7f:-$180 +f.>EP<< >·..... 
C. A.. L•··t.·--:.·· ····2·····.··•.5·.,6.. <:·:'.. . · ._...._: .. · i'\4··--•.··4·.•·••······•.:>-•.:
--·.·. --::·· __ .·.·.·3...-:·>:u _·:--. 
. ' . . 
CLOSE TO NOTRE DAME AND AIRPORT· 

-., .. ·..-. ., . ..·· ·.•,·· ·· .. ·.·,· ·.·-··::.·.. ·.. ---·-.l; 
(;{ 
' 
:l ,, 
f 
l"
Ji 
f 

and Bonds then homered on consecutive pitches. 
Bonds' home run landed within four feet of his historic homer in McCovey Cove, and marked the eighth time he reached the water in the short history of the park. 
Shawn Green snapped an O­for-14 slump with a pair of hits, including an RBI single in the seventh, and Eric Karros added an RBI double to give the Dodgers a 4-2 lead. 
Aaron Fultz (2-0) struck out the only hitter he faced to record the victory. Robb Nen pitched the ninth for his fourth save in five opportunities. 
Giants starter Livan Hernandez lasted 6 2-3 innings, giving up four runs ­two earned -on 10 hits. 
Angels 3, Athletics 2 
Adam Kennedy singled home the winning run with two outs in th.e bottom of the ninth inning and the Anaheim Angels avoided a three-game sweep by beating the Oakland Athletics. 
Kennedy went 3-for-3 and scored twice. 
Troy Glaus and Garret Anderson opened the ninth with singles off Jim Mecir (0­4). Kennedy broke his bat on a 1-2 pitch from Jason Isringhausen and the ball fell into short right-center field. 
The victory went to Troy Percival (1-0), who retired the only batter he faced. 
Scott Spiezio. who replaced Wally Joyner at first base, pre­served the tie in the Athletics' ninth by making a diving catch on Ramon Hernandez's line drive. 
Angels lefty · Scott Schoeneweis took a three-hit­te r and a 1-0 lead into the eighth. Eric Chavez led off with a double and scored on a one­out single by Johnny Damon. 
Damon, who led the AL last year with 46 stolen bases, swiped second before Jason Giambi put the Athletics ahead 2-1 with an opposite-field dou­ble to left-center. 
The Angels tied it in the bot~ tom half after Kennedy greeted Mecir with a triple off the 18­foot wall in right field. 
Kennedy scored with one out. beating the throw home after Darin Erstad hit a grounder to Giambi at first base. 
The Angels were 4-for-24 in the series with runners on base until Joyner opened the scoring with an RBI single -only the third time in 15 games this season that the Angels scored first. 
Pirates 8, Astros 4 
John Vander Wal went 4-for­4 with a home run and two RBIs as the Pittsburgh Pirates spoiled Shane Reynolds' return with awin over the Houston Astros.. 
Reynolds (0-1) was making his first start since July 29. His 2000 season ended early of degenerative disks in his lower back and he was late to spring training because of surgery to repair his left knee, which he injured while jogging in December. 
Reynolds allowed seven runs -four earned -and nine hits in 5 2-3 innings. He walked two and struck out five. 
Vander Wal's second career four-hit game helped the Pirates win consecutive games for the second time this season. He hit a solo homer in the first, doubled and scored in the fourth and had an RBI single in the sixth. 
Brian Giles and Pat Meares also hit RBI doubles in the fourth. Pittsburgh broke the game open with three unearned runs in the sixth. helped by shortstop Julio Lugo's error on a potential double-play ball. 
Emil Brown hit a two-run single after the Astros inten­tionally walked Jason Kendall in the sixth. . 
Bronson Arroyo (2-1) pitched two perfect innings in relief of starter Omar Olivares to get the win. Olivares gave up home runs to Lance Berkman and Richard Hidalgo in four innings. 
Berkman's homer cleared the right-field stands, hit a concrete patio deck outside the park and bounced into the Allegheny River. 

first Annual Vinual career fair 
Monday, April 161h through Monday, April 301h Sponsored by The University of Notre Dame Career Center 
The Career Center invites May graduates of the Colleges of Arts &Letters} Business Administration, Engineering, and Science to participate in our first annual Vinual career Fair. Currently we have over 80 companies participating. Seize this 
opportunity to explore careers with employers such as: 
Accenture Alcoa Anson Industries, Inc. Applied Biosystems ASG Rennaissance Bank One Corporation Booz Allen &Hamilton City of New York/Parks and Recreation Clarity Consulting Endocyte Essential Logic ExcelonCorp 
Fifth Third Bank 

Gang Crime Prevention Center General Electric Gibbs &Soell Hormel Foodz Human Genome Institute IBM Corporation International Paper Juniper Financial Cotporation KPMG, LLP;, ;it.· 
I 
Lab Supp~rfh, r. ' Mass Mutual Insurance 
McGraw-Hill MediChem Research, Inc. Microsoft Corporation National City Corporation Northrop Grumman Corporation Oceantt Rose-Hulman lnstttute of Technology TD Securities 
U.S. 
Department of Justice 

U.S. 
House of Representatives Wells Fargo WLS-TV 



'The list of participating employers increases daily. If you don't see an opportunity that interests you, check back later. 
Follow these easy steps to point &click your way to an interview: 
• 
Go to careercenter.nd.edu 

• 
Click on the Go Irish bar at the top of the page 

• 
Login 

• 
Findjobs 

• 
Scroll to the bottom of the page &highlight 'Spring 2001 Virtual Career Fair' in Career Center Events and hit search. , After you have identttied positions that interest you, submn your resume by selecting the apply button under each individual job. 


Seniors, stop by the Career Center for on-call hours Monday through Friday, 1:30 to 4:00 or drop by the Grand Hall at O'Shaugnnessy, 11:30 to 5.:00, April 23rd and 24111• Career Counselors will be available for one-on-one job search assistance or to review your resume. If you have additional questions contact the Career Center at 1-5200. 
Good luck!!! 
Thursday, April 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Belles blow out Olivet 9-0, retain first place in MIAA 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
"We won, coach," seemed to be all the Saint Mary's tennis team could say on Wednesday after solidly defeating Olivet to retain its first place ranking in the MIAA. 
A 9-0 victory at home made up for a weekend loss that ended the Belles' perfect season. 
"Our team handled it pretty well." freshman Kris Spriggle said. 
Saint Mary's kept up outstanding play, holding its opponent to less than 15 total points. The Belles were looking for consistency against a weaker Comet team. 
"We realized you couldn't kill [the ball} but to keep things con­sistent," Spriggle said. 
Consistency seemed to pay off for sophomore Angie Sandner who finished her No. 6 singles match in an hour's time. 
Despite a strong wind, Sandner claimed a 2-0 victory, defeating her opponent 6-0 both times. 
"It was hard serving," she said. "The first set was pretty windy. The second set wasn't so bad." 
After Sandner wrapped up her singles match, the rest of the team fell in line, claiming 2-0 victories from No. 1 singles to No. 6. Wind may haveaffected the fans. but the Belles adjusted their games for the winds. 
u ay, ri 

"With the wind, you couldn't hit with all your power," Spriggle said. "We had to focus more on how we hit instead of the power." 
Junior Annie Knish claimed a needed No. 1 singles victory with a 2-0 (6-0, 6-1) win over her Olivet opponent. 
Jeannie Knish added a 2-0 victo­ry at No. 3 singles, defeating her opponent 6-1,6-0. 
Senior Natalie Cook, and fresh­men Kaitlin Cutler and Spriggle each added 2-o· victories to wrap up singles. 
The doubles teams faired just as well. Sophomores Elisa Ryan and Trisha Jones teamed up to defeat Olivet 2-0 (6-0,6-1) in No. 3 dou­bles followed by Cutler and Jeannie Knish who claimed a 2-0 (6-1, 6-0) victory in No. 2 doubles. 
When Annie Knish and Cook stepped off the court with a No. 1 doubles victory (6-2, 6-1) the Belles claimed a full sweep only two hours after the match began. 
The Belles will face off against the Knights of Calvin College today at 3 p.m. at Angela in another MIAA match-up of the season. 
Calvin is tied for second place in the MIAA, right behind the Belles who tied with the Knights last year for the second place finish. 
Saint Mary's has already claimed victories over Alma and Hope, the two other leading MIAA teams. Calvin will prove to be the 
final obstacle. 
5:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. Romance Language Department's Italian Coffee Hour, Decio 131 
5:05 p.m. Men's Baseball vs. Central Michigan, Eck Stadium 
7:00 p.m. Panel discussion on "What You Can Do To Help Make Every Day an Earth Day", Reeker's 
7:30 p.m. "Christian Platonism: Its Past and Future", lecture by Louis Dupre, McKenna Hall 
8:00 
p.m. Wade Dingman, Graduate Organ recital, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

8:00 
p.m. "1939 Night Club Murders": A murder mystery dinner theater, Lafortune Ballroom* 


8:30 
p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, RSRC 

8:30 
p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 


9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, Lafortune Student Center Huddle 
10:00 p.m. -Midnight Stepan Center: Open Play Basketball and Volleyball 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Traffic': DeBartolo 101* & "The Contender': DeBartolo155* 
*denotes admission charge 

n ay, n 
BASEBALL 
Irish ready for Chippewas 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
The No. 2 ranked Notre Dame baseball team will carry its nation-leading 31-5-1 
record a n d current 1 0 ­game winning st r.e a k 
t 0 
Frank 

E c k Stanley St ad ­ium today for a non-con­ference match-up with the Central Michigan Chippewas (23-12}. The Irish, who hold sec­ond, fifth and sixth place rankings in the three major baseball polls, will be facing their longest lay­off in awhile, not having played since a double­header Saturday against West Virginia. The team will need this game as a tune-up before returning to Big East play this weekend. They cannot, however, afford to look past the tough Central Michigan team that has won nine of its last 11. "I think we've done a 
5:00 p.m. Badin Spring Break Down, South Quad (event begins at 
4:00 p.rn.) 
5:00 p.m. "Introduction to Midwest Groups Dealing with Prisons", lecture, Law School 
5:30 p.m. Hannah ·Neufeld, mezzo with II-Eun Byun, piano, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
6:00 p.m. -Midnight Stepan Center: Open Play 
7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 
7:00 
p.m. "He Reigns Forever", Voices of Faith Spring Concert, Jordan Auditorium 

7:00 
p.m. "Simone Weil: Tragedy, Plato and Christianity", speaker David Tracy, McKenna Hall 

7:00 
p.m. Organist Karen Schneider-Kirner with special guests Notre Dame Celebration Choir, Soprano Michele Dachtler Warner, and oboist Andrea Mather, Church of Loretto, St. Mary's College 


7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "You Can Count On Me'; Snite Museum* 
8:00 p.m. Movie, "Traffic': DeBartolo 101* & "The Contender': DeBartolo 155* 
This ad is compiled and published by the Student Activities Office 
good job so far staying focused for these mid­week games," said junior center fielder Steve Stanley. 
"We know they are very important for us, and they are a good way to prepare 
for the 

games on the week ­ends." 
As the lead-off hitter, Stanley 
h a s 
Gagne played 
a key 
factor in igniting the Irish 
offense this season, bat­
ting .383 while managing 
a .428 on base percent­age. 
Followed by freshman 
second baseman Steve Sollmann, who leads the team with a .406 average and .477 on base percent­age, the pair has com­bined to score 30 percent · of Notre Dame's runs this 
year. 

The real story, however, 
has been the dominant 
pitching of the entire 
Notre Dame staff, which 
has put together an NCAA­
best 2.61 ERA, led by 
seniors Aaron Heilman 
and Danny Tamayo. 
Sophomore J.P. Gagne 
ri ay, ri 
will get the start against the Chippewas, but he will probably only pitch a cou­ple of innings so he can be ready for the three week­end games. 
Central Michigan should bring the toughest non­conference opponent the Irish have faced in a while. 
Junior Brad Reid leads the Chippewas with an impressive .383 batting average. 
Reid is closely trailed by senior outfielder Bryan Sch-eurer, who has been on fire of late, hitting 12 of his last 25 at bats to bring his average up to .367. 
Central Michigan will find themselves in a tough spot at Frank Eck Stadium, being in the mid­dle of a busy week in which they play six games in seven days. 
They plan on throwing freshmen Ryan Cremeans and Jeff Opalewski against the Irish, who have start­ed to come alive at the plate batting .316 as a team. 
This game should pro­vide a good opportunity for the Irish to warm up their bats for their three­game home series against Big East challenger Villanova over the week­end. 

8:07 p.m. 807 Friday Night Mass, Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother, Coleman Morse Center 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:30 
p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "You Can Count On Me': Snite Museum* 

9:30 
p.m. Bhangra Blowout 2001, Lafortune Student Center Ballroom 


10:30 p.m. Movie, "Traffic': DeBartolo 101* & "The Contender'; DeBartolo155* Saturday, April 21 A 
5:00 p.m. Stepan Center: Open Play 
V

Basketball and Volleyball 
5:00 p.m. Fisher Regatta, St. Mary's Lake (event begins at 4:00 p.m.) 
7:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "You Can Count On Me'; Snite Museum* 
8:00 p.m. ~ovie, "Traffic'; DeBartolo 101* & "The Contender'; 155 * 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. Mums from HBO's "Oz" Lafortune Student Center Ballroom 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "You Can Count On Me'; Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Traffic': DeBartolo 101* & "The Contender'; DeBartolo155* 



page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 19, 2001 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Senior $raff Writer 
Olivet College took advantage of scoring opportu­nities and Saint Mary's errors to win both games of Wednesday's double-header, 5-2 and 7-5. 
"We played really well in both games, but Olivet got some lucky hits to win the games," said senior co-captain Anne Senger. 
Senger pitched the first game, giving up five earned runs in seven innings of work. One error in the seventh inning and an overthrow to homeplate allowed Olivet to tie the game caused the two unearned runs. 
"We did make a couple of errors that were inop­portune and cost us a couple of runs," Belles' head coach John Kovach said. 
The Belles took an early lead in the first game with a second-inning RBI double by freshman out­fielder Erin Sullivan. 
Olivet returned the favor in the top of the third inning, scoring three runs. An error allowed the lead-off batter to reach first and two doubles and a sacrifice fly drove in the three runs. 
The Belles offense opened up in the bottom of the third, scoring three runs to take a 4-3 lead. Junior third baseman Melissa Hayes had a lead-off single to start the inning. A sacrifice bunt and an infield hit by freshman Marnie Walsh and junior Kristin Martin moved Hayes into scoring position. 
Freshman Kristina Tebbe drove her in with an RBI single and was followed by a two-run double by sophomore Susan Kutz. 
The score stayed at 4-3 until the top of the sev­enth inning when Olivet's offense struck again. The Comets scored four runs in the top half of the inning to take the lead. 
"The first game gave you a feeling tha,t you should always have a few more runs," Kovach said. "Everything materialized with two outs in the last inning. Its almost like you couldn't stop it." 
The Comets took the lead on a three-run home 



r It 
EVERY WEDNESDAY 

>> GOU," B{;.ND1Q B\GG{;.g f PAl<,TY<< 222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND•219.234.5200 
run by sophomore outfielder Corrie Champine. The runners were on base, in part because of the throwing error by the Belles earlier in the inning. 
The Belles pulled within two runs in the bottom of the seventh on an RBI double by Martin but could not tie up the game. 
"These kind of losses are tough losses to take," Kovach said. 
The second game proved to be a defensive dual between Saint Mary's and Olivet. Freshman Libby Wilhelmy pitched for the Belles, going seven innings and giving up four earned runs. 
Once again, the Belles took the early lead, scor­ing one run in the top of the third inning. Sullivan scored on a passed ball by sophomore pitcher Erica Fahey. Saint Mary's added another run in the top of the next inning on a sacrifice fly by senior Cindy Traub. 
Olivet did not score a run until the sixth inning thanks to tough defense by the Belles. Sullivan, at center field, and shortstop Marnie Walsh had a good deal to do with the defense's success. 
"[Marni] really has come along well this season," Kovach said. ''Shortstop is really a key spot." 
Olivet did pick up a run in the bottom of the sixth inning on an RBI double. As in the first game, Olivet did not win the game, however, until its last at bats. 
Wilhelmy and the Belles had recorded two outs on a heads-up double play before Olivet scored the winning runs. With two outs, Olivet recorded a sin• gle and an RBI double to tie the game. Senior Jackie Knight then hit a two-run homerun for the Comets to win the game 4-2. 
Saint Mary's faces Calvin today at home at 3 p.m. They must win both games of the doubleheader if they hope to move into the top four teams in the MIM and make the playoffs. 
Kovach expects the team to shake off today's losses and win against Calvin. · 
"We have to come out and play our best," he said. "Yesterday was yesterday and today is today. Today will make the difference in the league." 

Steaks your consuming passion? Then fill up on these sizzlers: Londonbroil (13.99), t-bone 117.99) or our specialty, 12oz. of USDA prime New York strip (14 99). Lighter options, too! 
NOW OPEN FOR LATE NIGHT DINING JRIDAY £, SATURDAY 
222 S MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND 
219-234-5200 



Prime banquet space for your private party. 10-1,000 guests 
1, 

Thursday, April 19, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


Here. O.fe sor1e. Fox TROT BILL AMEND 




President Bush works on the Notre Dame commencement speech. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Mideast's Meir 
6 Quench 11 Reverse of ENE 14 French 
soup 15 Old postcard 
cost 16 News agcy. 17 Special person 19 Forty winks 20 "Help yourself 21 At an angle 22 Store goods: 
Abbr. 23 Humorist Sahl 25 Highly regards 27 Eye chart eyers, 
at times 31 Opposite of vert. 32 Part of a litter 
55 V-J Day ended it 59 Comic Conway 60 Special person 62 Bard's before 63 Composer Erik 64 Transplant taker 65_Bingle 
(Crosby moniker) 66 Not your or my 67 Helps with a heist 
DOWN 1 "Gee whillikers!" 2 "This round's 
_!" 3 Make-up artist? 4 Start of the 
musical scale 5 Small colonist 6 Unscientific 
survey 7 Fifth-century pope who was sainted 8 Bobbysocks reach them 
9 Sweaters, e.g. 10 CBS symbol 11 Special person 12 Involuntary jerk 13 Uses a towel 18 Saturday 
morning TV 
showing 22 Cat's plaint 24 Not at sea 
26 "Eureka!" 
28 Give up 29 Special person 


Birthday Baby: You're a detennined little character who is always
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
in the middle of whatever is going on. You have a good eye and a 
years: t-888-7-ACROSS. 
quick mind. You have the stamina to accomplish your goals and a per­suasive personality that will sway others to follow your lead. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
33 Cubs slugger Sammy 34 Viewed like a tourist 37 Cloak-and­dagger org. 38 Special person 40 Jerusalem's !and: Abbr. 
41 Wh9n there's darkness, in a Koestler title 
43 Makes lace 
44 Code-cracking org. 45"LeCoq_" 46 Alcove from 
which to watch the street 48 Cane cutter 51 Tiny biter 52 Roswell sightings 53 Killer whales 


Puzzle by Nancy Salomon and Boo Frank 
30 Haile Selassie disciple 34 Finally learned 35 Exxon, once 36 Gunfight command 39 Knockout punch 42 Sounds of envy 46 Tongue-lash 
47 A bored worker might look for one 
48 With the sound off 

49 Like a house 50 Synagogue scroll 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: John Gielgud, Julie Christie, Rod Steiger, Loretta Lynn, Pete Rose, John Shea, Sarah Michelle Gellar 
Happy Birthday: You'll have plenty of ideas and plans to con­quer your world, but must be careful not to take on too much. Less is best this yeax. If you focus on what's really important to you, success will follow. If you recog­nize your limitations and ask for assistance, you will do much bet­ter than even you anticipated. Your numbers: 8, 19, 23, 26, 42, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Don't take others for granted or promise more than you can deliv­er. You will find yourself in the limelight for all the wrong rea­sons. Overindulgence must be avoided.00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will pick up some valuable information if you spend time with an older relative who has the same interests. Attend an antique auction or a flea market. You'll find some good buys. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't take on too strenuous a task. Minor injury or exhaustion will result. Make changes in your home that will add to your com­
58Alibi_ 
fort. It's time to pamper yourself
(excuse 
for a change. 000 
makers) 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Your partner isn't likely to share 
EUGENIA LAST 
more about starting your own 
business. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Travel should be on your agenda. 
Romance will be enticing and 
lead to new and exciting plans for 
the future. Expect to run into peo­
ple from your past. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
Emotional deception will cause 
friction with those you live with. 
You can expect sorrow to evolve 
from the information you discov­
er. Be honest with yourself and 
face the music head-on. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It won't be easy to please family, friends or in-laws. Jt is better to please yourself than bang your head against a wall. You need to relax and get in touch with your own feelings. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (N~ 22-Dec. 21): 
You will be emotional about money matters if you let cash slip through your fingers. You need to put your finances in order once and for all. You must set and stick to a budget. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be emotional regarding your present relationship. Don't make rash decisions. You have to make a concerted effort before you throw in the towel. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't become involved in secret matters even if you do find them intriguing. Be careful how you handle tne situation. You could end up taking the blame for ... something you didn't do. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your intuition will lead you in the right direction. Take care of home-improvement projects and real estate matters. Your ideas will be well planned and easily implemented. 0000 

54 202, to Tiberius 
60 Mpls. clock 56 Wind down setting 57 "Body Count" rapper 61 Nutritional std. 
Answers to any three clues m this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
the same ideals as you. Try to be honest and open, or you will have difficulty coming to terms with the problems that arise. Don't pre­tend to be what you're not. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make professional changes if you spend time looking for other ways to make a living. Attend seminars that will help you learn 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
() 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


#2 NOTRE DAME BASEBALL 

, ....

TODAY vs. Central Michigan 5 pm _Saturday vs. Villanova (~) 12 pm. .. . ·.. ,c~ 

g First 100 students get a fio'ee chicken sandwich fru11 CMo1~---.. · Sunday vs. Villanova 12 pm First 300 Fans Get a ND Wooden Baseball Bat Pen 
As Always, Students Free! ~
(f

NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S LACROSSE ~ 
..

Sunday vs. #5 Georgetown 1 pn1 
*ALL GAMES AT MoosE KRAUSE STADIUM 



Big Time Belles 
The Saint Mary's tennis team cemented its top spot in the MIM with a 9-0 win over Olivet. 
1~t page 21
ti< 
O
THE 
page 24 BSERVER Thursday, April 19, 200 I

1 
t't'~ 


. 
L 
• I
. I 'I
i~.
·,+
k
t{ 
I :,j'!. \ !tit 
! [
[ . t ·­
I 
i 
I I ' 
l 
,,. 
1i'f 


i 
',\ 

MEN'S LACROSSE 

Ulrich sets assists record as Irish beat Butler 
. The Irish have 9 unanswered goals to take down Butler 12-3 at home 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
\>Vith 5:30 left in the first half and the score tied at 3, it looked like this year's Notre Dame­Butler men's lacrosse game would be another hard fought nail biter to decide the Great Western Lacrosse League title. 
Nine unanswered Irish goals later, it was hard to believe that the 12-3 Notre Dame blowout had once been a close game. 
"I just thought we executed better," head coach Kevin Corrigan said about the nine-goal surge at the end of the first half and throughout the second. "\Ve were sloppy in the first half. We were playing hard -fighting for ground balls and riding people -but we weren't executing. In the second half we settled down and did what we needed to do." 
Irish senior David Ulrich, who set a new Irish record with 102 assists in his career, played a role in seven of the 12 goals with three goals and four assists. But Notre Dame also got three goals each from two less likely sources -junior Devin Ryan and senior Jon Harvey. 
"The way teams are playing us right now. they are putting a lot of pressure on [midfielders] Steve Bishko and John Flandina," Corrigan said. "When people do that, it leaves some openings for other players. So you see Jon Harvey and Devin scoring more goals for us." 
Ryan has been red hot this week. The junior midfielder also scored four goals in Notre Dame's 17-13 win against Army. 
"I wouldn't really expect him to score seven goals in two games for us," Corrigan said. "That hasn't been his role but in my experience good teams take what you give them." 
Ryan opened the scoring for the Irish with 
12:14 left in the first quarter off an assist from Ulrich. Ulrich pushed the lead to 2-0 less than two minutes later. 
The Bulldogs answered the Irish goals with two of their own. Senior Tom Glatzel scored his 30th goal of the 
see lACROSSE/page 16 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX 


. Ulrich sets career assists mark with 102, points to team play as reason for success 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Spott~ Writer 
David Ulrich insists he is just one part of the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team and no more important than any other player. 
"We've been playing great as a team all year," he said. "It really doesn't depend on how one per­son plays." 
His head coach, however, disagrees. Kevin Corrigan knows how important the senior attack­man who set the Notre Dame record for assists in a career against Butler is to this team. 
"David has played great all year. His numbers haven't been what they have been in the past but sometimes the play doesn't come to you," Corrigan said. "We're not the team we are without David Ulrich. I am glad to see him get rewarded with the record today." 
Ulrich did more than just break the career assist record against the Bulldogs. He thoroughly domi­nated and controlled the game in the offensive end. The senior from Baltimore scored three goals and dished off four assists to lead the Irish to a 12­3 win. 
Despite his seven point effort, Ulrich doesn't even count this as his best game of the year. 
"It's the most I have to show for it," he said. "But I thqught my best game of the year was against Virginia and I only had one point." 
Ulrich entered the game with 98 assists. two shy of Randy Crowley's record of 100 assists. 
It didn't take long for Ulrich to begin his attack on 100. He hit junior Devin Ryan for a goal less . than three minutes into the game to move within one of Crowley. 
It took a little longer for Ulrich to tie the record but the 100th assist was certainly memorable. In a replay of a goal that was scored many times in their Maryland backyard, 
David fired a pass from behind the net to his twin brother Todd who was waiting in front for an easy goal. 
Ulrich didn't stop there. however. With 11 :59 left in the fourth, passed to Jon Harvey who buried a 
see ULRICH/page 16 

Sack, Cloth makes We're Gonna Suck live up to name 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Senior Staff Writer 
Mike Perrone's team had two strikes against it from the start of Wednesday's Bookstore Basketball second­round game. 
Strike one -Perrone, Lance LeClare. Rob Mallory. Holt Zeidler and Stephen Torchen named their team We're Gonna Suck. 
"Seeing by our team's name," Perrone said, "we 

didn't expect to win one game, let alone two." 
Strike two -We're Gonna Suck was taking on a team with God on its side, with Sack Cloth and Ashes made up of five members of Old College, the feeder dorm for future seminarians. 
Two strikes ~vere enough to lead Sack Cloth and Ashes, which plays together twice a week at Moreau Seminary, past We're Gonna Suck 21-11. 
"\Ve wanted to win two games," Sack Cloth and 
Ashes' Matt Vereecke said, the stretch. Vereecke and "and we did that. Anything Esch combined for the final else is a bonus." six points to carry their squad 
S a c k in to the Cloth and third round.
"Seeing by our team's name, 
Ashes, "We have made up of we didn't expect ot win one s o m e 
Vereecke, game, let alone two ... defense and 
David Esch, quickness," S t e v e said Esch. Davidson, Mike Perrone Sack Cloth Andrew We're Gonna Suck and Ashes Polaniecki picked off and Tom We're Gonna Hofmann, took a 13-6 lead Suck for a number of steals and kept the advantage down during the game. leading to several fast breaks. 
Their motto didn't get them yet as Live Fat, Die Young.com stayed alive in the tournament with a 21-18 vic­tory over Team 431. 
"We got out to an early lead and got lucky," said Live Fat, Die Young.corn's Adam Koch, who hit the game-winning jumper. 
Koch and Zak Kordik paired up for 13 of Live Fat, Die Young.com's 21 points, with 
see BOOKSTORE/page 14 


Softball at Big East Championships RowingSPORTS .,, at DePaul 1!{) Miami, Fla. St at Midwest Sprints 
Today, 4:30 p.m. --~ Friday -Sunday Saturday, 8 a.m. 
ATA 

at Big East Championships Men's Lacrosse 
Baseball vs. Central Michigan t.:::;) Miami, Fla. ar Ohio State
GLANCE a, ~ 
Today, 5:05 p.m. Friday -Sunday Saturday, 1 p.m. 
I, 
)' 






