
Dave releases new studio album 
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame 
After nearly three years, the DMB has 
A Notre Dame senior defends the many student 
iruesday
released an album completely differentfrorn 
fans who loudly and proudly support Notre 
anything it has el'er produced before. 
Dame athletics. 
1'1ARCH 6,
Scene . page 12 
Viewpoint . page 11 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Danie and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 101 HTTP:// BS ERVER.ND.EDU 



Holy Cross community mourns sudden death 
. Family, friends remember Nemeth as a 'peacemaker' 
By ERIN PIROTEK 
Associate News Edi tor 
While snow swirled outside Holy Cross Chapel. Jenny Nemcth's friends and familv remembered how she loved spring. 
J-1 e r friend Katie Egan. a sophomore at Notre Dame. said J e n n y eagerly looked for­


ward  to  Nemeth  
weather  
warm  enough so  that she  

could wear sundresses. Jenny died last Friday. The funeral Mass is today at 3:30 
p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on the Notre Dame campus. 
"She hated gloomy days," said her brother Josh Nemeth, a South Bend resident. 
According to her family. 
though, being in the same room as Jenny could brighten any day. 
"When you looked at Jenny. it was like sunshine," said Paula Nemeth, her mother. 
Jenny's priorities were sim­ple. 
"Family was first to Jenny and her friends were very important to her," said Josh. 
Jenny's goal was to unite her family, according to her twin sister Stephanie Nemeth. Jenny was a peacemaker who would try to find the solution for any problem. 
"We have the same heart, but hers was so much bigger than mine," said Josh. 
Jenny's sudden death shocked her friends and fami­ly. 
"We just keep asking why and we know we're never going to get the answer," said Josh. 
Egan said she happened to see Jenny both on Monday and Tuesday nights, although she was busy preparing for midterms. 
"We got to talk. I feel very 
fortunate to be able to have 
spent that time with her," said 
Egan. 

'Generations' increases financial aid 
Reagan.By KIFLIN TURNER Of the total amount raised, News Writer 
an estimated $268 million will go to student financial aid in Financial aid prospects are the form of undergraduate. looking up for current and merit, and law scholarships, prospective students at Notre as well as graduate fellow­Dame. The record-breaking ships. International study 
Generations campaign. a three-year fundraising event. has made great strides toward enhancing financial aid us well as other initia­tives that include fund­ing for facul­ty chairs and facility improvemenb. 
abroad pro­grams.
"Right now our financial 
social space aid policy is reflecting and student life pro­
that we are meeting the 
gra ms will
full demonstrated 
also be in financial need ofall our line to receive addi­
undergraduate students. " 
tional fund­ing. Susan Brandt "The tan­
associate director of dem of con­tributed

student services 

The campaign's deadline in December of 2000 far exceed­ed the original goal of $767 million with the final total reaching a Notre Dame and Catholic university record of $1.061 billion. The campaign is sum lo change the face of financial aid according to Dan Beagan, executive director of development. 
"It will continue to impact tlrn affordability of a Notre Dame education," said 
financial aid 
dollars 
meeting scholarships along with the excellent management of the endowment of the University -those two pieces combined arc having a very much imme­diate impact and a long lasting one too," said Reagan. 
With student financial aid being the focus of the cam­paign, the University is attempting to place the stu­dents first as the top priority in fundraising initiatives. Raising significant sums for individual scholarships was 


As twins, Jenny and high school. When they were with Jenny. 
Stephanie were very close. young, they'd often spend a "In high school. I was never ''I've never gone a day with­whole day drawing out elabo­known as Stepq.anie, but as 
out her being around," said rate plans, then rearranging one of the Nemeth twins," said 
Stephanie, a junior at Notre their room. The best thing Stephanie. 
Dame. about her birthday, according They shared a room until to Stephanie, was sharing it see NEMETH/page 4 
the main goal of the campaign, said Joseph Russo, director of financial aid. 
"It was the single largest component in the campaign," said Russo. "It clearly will help us provide an opportunity more so than ever for students who have been admitted and who have a need to come here and because we know can pro­vide resources to make it more affordable than ever in our history." 
Including today's students 
Many students, however, arc concerned that the emphasis on making Notre Dame more affordable for prospective stu­dents means that current stu­dents will not benefit from Generations. 
Administrators. however. claim that Generations is already meeting the needs of current students. University figures show that Notre Dame meets the demonstrated finan­cial needs of every current student. 
"Right now our financial aid policy is re0ecting that we arc meeting the full demonstrated financial need of all our undergraduate students," said Brandt. 
"Every student is benefiting 
see AID/page 4 

SUB brings for01er IU coach Kni:ght to ND 
Observer staff report 
Former Indiana University head basketball coach will speak at Notre Dame March 27. Invited by t h e Student Union Bo a rd (SUB), Knight w i I I address the pub­lic at 

Knight
Stepan Center at 
7 p.m. 
"I think it's going to gen­erate a lot of excitement for Notre Dame because he's such a great basketball coach and Notre Dame has been in the basketball lime­light," said SUB member Stephen Christ. 
Christ said the idea to bring Knight to campus came from Knight's recent string of talks at other col­leges and universities. As a big sports community, Christ said Notre Dame is the perfect outlet for Knight's talk. 

SUB can sell up to 2,000 tickets. Students can pur­chase tickets Wednesday at the Lafortune Information desk at 9 a.m. The cost is $2 for students and faculty. The community can pur­chase tick­Kn1ight Tix ets for $4 starting
Bobby Knight 
Thursday.will be on cam­Knight 
pus March 27, was fired 
from his
but tickets for 
position as stuclents and head coach at Indiana
faculty go on 
Sept. 10 salu soon. for repeat­
ed miscon­
. Wednesday 
duct. The 
. Lafortune 
controver­Information sial coach generated
Desk 
several 
. g a.m. 
stories of 
abusive 
coaching well as ill-tempered inci­dents with the public. 
In his nearly 30 years at Indiana, Knight won three national championships and with 763 victories is the fifth most winningest coach in ,college basketball histo­ry. 


page 2 The Ob,erver . INSIDE Tuesday, March 6, 200 l 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Art appreciation 
I'm done. Today I finished my senior thesis. The prints have been made; the frames have been ordered: the artist statement has been written a.nd rewritten and revised. For the past four years in college I have worked toward today. I should feel this huge sense of accomplish-Liz Lang ment, as if some weight has been lifted -this was what I was expecting to feel any­how after eight months of Photo Editor work on one project. 
But today I feel sad. 
Rather than a sense of accomplishment. I have an overwhelming sense of loss. The show doesn't go up in the Snite untH April but my work is done. I have made my last image; for now anyway. 
Being one of only four photography majors in the class of 2001 I have received an education much different than most people at Notre Dame. Sitting though five three-hour classes twice a week each is common practice; an hour and 15 minute class would be a holiday. Late nights are given a new meaning in Riley Hall (that's the big building next to Nieuwland). 
There have been many days when I've shown up to class in the same clothes as the night before simply because I spent the night in the darkroom. My hands are always dirty. Getting dressed up for class means wearing clean jeans. I got to take a four-week class in Taos. 
N.M. photographing the landscape of the West; I get to take field trips to Chicago to spend hours in the Art Institute (Ferris Bueller style). 
In order to get my degree I've taken every­thing from sculpture lo graphic design back to photography. There are 22 required classes to get a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree (as com­pared to eight for history or 10 for English). and yet, I've rarely ever had a Friday class. 
The faculty to student ratio is 2: 1, that is two professors for the four of us lucky photogra­phers. I've had an amazing education, maybe not conventional. but still amazing. Riley has been my home away from home; my room­mates always know where to find me. 
So now that I'm done with my thesis, I guess I don't know what to do with myself. It's all too final. This means I really have to grow up. I have to get a job just like the rest of the gradu­ating seniors not continuing on to an even higher education. I have to find a new place in the world that likes my art. Funny -I just got comfortable in this place. 
I took too much of it for granted; I can look back and say that without a doubt. Every time I think about how I complained about the long hours and.late nights or the amount of class work or the money I spent just to get one per­fect image, I think about how silly I must have sounded. All that time I was doing exactly what I loved. 
I got credit to do what I love to do. How many people can say that after four years of college? And now I am done. l am getting a diploma for following my heart and a degree in my passion in life. 
The lliews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maureen Smithe Sam Derheimer 
Colleen McCarthy Chris Scott Finn Pressly Graphics Viewpoint Kacy Hall 
Kure Bogaard Production 
Sports Rachael Procrman Lauren Conti Lab Tech Bryan Cronk Naomi Cordell 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi,hc:d Monday rhrough Fri.Jay cxcrpr c.luring =rn and vacation period,. The Observer is a mcmb.,r of rhe Associ11ed Press. All rrproduction rights are reserved. 

QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
''We've got a.flawed  "You can ·t legislate a  "People are getting  "ft·s almost more like  
death penalty  culture ... You can  rich offofselling  chess than boxing for  
system, and racism is  only change a culture  people the idea that  me."  
a big part ofit ...  by debate,  they should be  
consultation, and  different from what  Brian Hobbins,  
Charles Rice Notre Dame law  persuasion. "  they are."  165-pound Bengal Bouts champion  
professor on the impact  John Cavadlnl, Notre  Leigh Cohn, eating  
of race on the death  Dame theology professor  disorder expert on the  
penalty  on the Ex Corde mandate  impact of advertising on  
society  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 



Profs may have met suspects prior to murders 
HANOVER, N.H. the kids and the Zantops in the club 
Prosecutors still haven't said, and on the same day." may not even know, what linked the He acknowledged that is possible Ha!f and Suzanne Zantop to their that the club records are not accu­accused killers. rate. But he said the likelihood of 
But yet another theory emerged the couple meeting up with their over the weekend: that they some­accused killers. Robert Tulloch and how crossed paths at the River James Parker, at the 300-member Valley Club, a Lebanon health club club was slim. where the Zantops were members He said it wa·s just as likely that and where the two suspects were they would potentially have crossed present on at least one October day. paths while shopping at K-Mart on 
Though The Boston Globe report­the same day. ed that investigators have been What does seem clear is that the intrigued enough to subpoena the Zantops and the boys shared a com­club's records, the club's lawyer, mon interest in rock-climbing. The Ned Whittington, said Sunday that boys signed a waiver so that they they were likely to reach a dead could climb the synthetic rock wall end. "The Zantops were not in either inside the club. Half Zantop was an 
He confirmed that the two sus­the third or the fourth or the day avid climber until a near-fatal 
after," he said. "This just doesn't put
pects were present at the River climbing accident in 1965. 

TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
University negotiates with G.A.'s 
Student crowned Miss USA 
NEW YORK

COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
New York University has agreed to begin collective
Kandace Krueger, a 24-year-old senior journalism 
bargaining sessions with a union of graduate assis­
major at Texas A&M University, was crowned Miss 
tants, the first such negotiations at any private
USA Friday night, becoming the eighth Lone Star dele­
American university. NYU officials announced their
gate and second Texas A&M student to win the title. 
decision to bargain with United Auto Workers (UAW)
"The whole night is a big blur," Krueger said. "It is 
Local 2110 Thursday afternoon. only hours before
.hard to put into words." Krueger began preliminary 
union members were to begin a strike authorization
competition for the Miss USA contest Monday and was 
vote. Had a strike been approved by union members.
crowned during the televised final round of competi­
UAW leadership would have had the power to call
tion. "Going into the finals, I felt like I had done my 
one at any time, effectively crippling the many
very best," Krueger said. "I knew I could only do my 
University programs that use GAs as teaching and
best, and the rest was in God's hands." Since her coro­
research assistants. In a letter of agreement signed
nation, Krueger said she has not stopped moving. She 
by NYU Associate General Counsel and Deputy
has held a press conference, returned home to New 
Director of Labor Relations Terrance Nolan and UAW
York and has been preparing for Monday-morning 
officials, both sides agreed that "lt]he UAW recog­
interviews on CNN and Live, with Regis and Kelly. 
nizes that certain issues involving the academic mis­
Krueger said she someday hopes to work as a sports 
sion of the University lie outside the scope of bar­
broadcaster. "This is going to be a fabulous opportuni­
gaining as defined by the National Labor Relations
ty, career-wise," she said. Krueger won Miss Texas in 
Act.

July and has been on a school sabbatical since then. 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWcather • forecast for daytime conditions and hii:h temperatures 
The AccuWeather<' forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 6. 
H L 
6 

Wednesday ~ 44 24 cD. 38 25
Thursday ·.· ..·.· ..· 
·:· ·r 
~ 
........... 

C 2001 AccuWUltle,, Inc. COLD WARM sr.-.nONARY

Saturday cD. 43 28
·.;.• ..:,· 

®-.d;) D EJ ITu D D D 


Hlgh Low 8howara Aakl T..torm• Flurrlel Snow loe Sunny Pt. CiOUdy Ck>udy
Sunday cD. 45 34
·:·.;::-.;:=· 

AHanta 42 26 Las Vegas 65 so Portland 60 40 Baltimore 36 24 Memphis 48 33 Sacramento 63 43 Boston 30 27 Milwaukee 34 24 St. Louis 39 20


4,Q,~A.QQ ~ ~ u 
Chicago 36 24 New York 36 24 Tampa 63 43 
S/JOW9fS T-slorms Rain FlutTltiS Snow /C9 51.lMY P/, Cloudy Cloudy 
Hooston 72 54 Philadelphia 32 25 Wash DC 40 27 
Via Assooated Pmss G,aphiesN&t 
.-.....
.......... 

Tuesday, March 6, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANACE 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Associate News Editor 
The Board of Governance learned Monday that a lack of support from academic depart­ments ha<; most likely eliminated the possibility of study days for Saint Mary's studentc;. 
The Academic Standards com­mittee send a survey to the chair­person of each academic depart­ment to ask for feedback on the study day proposal, Kelly Dugan, student representative to the committee said. Of the 18 depart­ments that responded to the sur­vey, 13 opposed adding study days to the academic calendar. 
"There was a lot or very strong opposition to "it and those who were in favor of the proposal were like 'l guess this would be OK,"' 0ugan said. 
The survey asked the academic departments to evaluate several 




Lack of faculty support eli01inates possibility of study day 
areas of concern including stu­the committee believe one reason ously don't think it is a good idea. dent workload before exams, many faculty members oppose And professors are very con­opinions regarding the proposed study days is that the professors cerned about losing another study day and ideas for counter­feel they can better prepare stu­teaching day." acting the stress students feel tn dents for exams in a cla.,;;s period Dugan said the committee was 
the week before exams. While the "vVhat you have is a surveys indicat­
difference ofopinion
ed the faculty 

between students and 
recognize that students have a faculty as to what is going large workload 
to be more helpful to us. " 
in the week leading up to exams and a lot 

Kelly Dugan of stress, they student representative do not foe! a study day will 
rather than giving stu­dents the day off 
S u s a n Vanek, direc­tor of first year studies, chairs the committee. 
Dugan and SAC chair­p er son Michelle supportive and recognized that the intense workload students receive the week before exams needs to be addressed. 

Suggestions included gathering sample test schedules from stu­dents and syllabi from faculty to examine what an average stu­dent's workload is like towards the end of the semester. Also sug­gested was recommending that professors do not introduce new material in the last week before exams that would be included on 
remedy the problem, said Dugan. Nagle, who also sits on the com­the final exam. 
"They don't think the study day mittee, said they doubted the Nagle, who is also student body will be beneficial to us,'' said committee would pass the pro­president-elect, said that she and Dugan. "\"i'hat you really have is a posal without the support of fac­her vice president elect, Kristen difference of opinion between stu­ulty. Matha, will continue the fight. dents and faculty as to what is "If 13 departments are saying "Even with these results, I going to be more helpful to us." I.his is not a good idea, it won't won't say this is over," said 
Dugan said faculty members on happen," said Dugan. "They obvi-Nagle. "We're going to keep being 
Attention: New faculty members and staff Unsure about your retirement choices? h Call fary~u~D•1scover t e ,,:::.-:1.j  
TIAA-CREF Advantage.  
If you're a new faculty member or staff employee and not sure about your retirement plan choices, Just contact TIAA-CREF. THE TIAA-CREFWe're the financial organization that's been dedicated for over 80 years to helping people in ADVANTAGE education and research reach their financial goals. Find out for yourself how TIAA-CREF provides: Investment Expertise ' • Easy diversification among a range of expertly Low Expenses managed funds Customized• A solid history of performance and exceptional personal service Payment Options • A strong commitment to low expenses • Plus. afull range of flexible retirement income Expert Guidance options So call us for afree information package or just talk to one of your colleagues. You'll find that choosing your retirement plan provider is simple when you go with the leader: TIM-CREE  
Ensuring the future for those who shape it."'ii  1.800.842.2776 www.tiaa-cref.org  
For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. • TJAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services. Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products. • Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA), New York. NY and TIAA-CREF life Insurance Co., New York. NY issue insurance and annuities,• TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 01/04  

By KATE NAGENGAST 
Assistant News Editor 
As part of continuing efforts to improve campus-wide support for sexual assault victims, the University appointed Ava Preacher as the Uni­versity's first person resource person for victims of sexual assault. 
Pre a ­cher, the assistant dean for undergraduate studies in the College of Arts and Letters, has been involved with some of the issues surround sexual assault though her expe­rience as director of gender studies from 1990-93, her mem­bership on the University Committee on Women Faculty and Students and her position as a faculty advisor for the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination {CARE). 
The ease with which her office in O'Shaughnessy allows her to see students anonymously was also a primary consideration, said Preacher. 
"I've had a number of stu­dents who have just shown up in my office in the past when I was director of gender studies and in this position as dean. Students would come in to talk about their cases before they went to Student Affairs and even afterwards, so I have some experience dealing with stu­dents one on one as well," said Preacher. 
Preacher will act as a resource for students to under­stand the processes, procedures and policies that apply when a sexual assault is reported to the University or the South Bend Police Department. She aims not to advise victims about an appropriate decision, but to pro­vide information. said Preacher. 
"I don't have a direct connec­tion with Student Affairs," said Preacher. "I'm in an academic office and all I get from [Student Affairs] is information so I'm truly an impartial advocate for the students." 
Although the University has an integral part of the communi­cation throughout this process. We're just going to have to take what we can build on and take that to the next level." 


In othor news: 
. Admissions commissioner Stephanie Redwanski said she had been in communication with the Admissions office regarding the article in "Cosmopolitan" magazine detailing the sexual assault of a Saint Mary's student and tho College's response. With Accepted Student Day on campus approaching on March 25, stu­dents may be approached by visi­tors regarding their response to the article. 
"The Admissions office said that if we are approar,hed by any­one, we should just tell I.hem what we feel about the article and be honest," said Redwansk.i. "They said there is no set response regarding the article." 
Preacher nam~ed sexual
RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 
assault student resource 
been in the process of reforming campus-wide sexual assault polices since last spring and announced official changes last October, an article about a Saint Mary's student allegedly raped by a Notre Dame student pub­lished in the March issue of Cosmopolitan Magazine rehashed much of the contro­versy. Preacher's appointment two weeks after the publication of the article, however, was unrelated, said both Preacher and Dennis Moore, director of public relations for Notre Dame. 
"[Ava Preacher's appoint­ment] was planned long before that article even existed," said Moore. "The person who wrote the article had a long interview with Bill Kirk about all the new resources we offer, but chose not to include that information in thie article. This appointment has nothing to do with that, and as far as we're concerned that articlie has no credibility what­soever." 
Preacher said, "I don't think [the Cosmopolitan article] will affect my attitude. I already knew about that case . . . and l think I've known for a long time that Notre Dame needed to change its policies." 
Besides Preacher's appoint­menlt, there are several other steps the University is taking to better assist victims of sexual assault, including: the creation of an advisory group to examine and review concerns for both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses; the publica­tion of two brochures for better dissemination of information regarding du Lac policy and support services; and, additions to du Lac specifically outlining exemption from certain policy violations (such as parietals} in the case of a sexual assault. 
"I think if I were doing my job woll I would eventually elimi­nate my own job," said Preacher about sexual assault services' development. "I would like to get enough education out there and make people aware enough that we become an assault free campus. But for now, I see my office providing a space for stu­dents who have been assaulted to come in, get information, talk about it and I'll help them through the first part of the process." 
• page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 6, 200 l 
Aid 
continued from page I 
from the hard work put into the Generation campaign and also the very generous dona­tions made to the University," said Brandt. 
Heagan agnrnd that Generations is already begin­ning to make its mark on the current student body at Notre Dame. 
"I think the fact that the University is already meeting the demonstrated need of' our students is an indication of' it !laving an impact," said llcagan. 
Even with the exceptional amount raised for financial aid. Beagan said efforts to continue to raise money would nut stop there. While encouraged with the money raised, Beagan and other University officials arc f'ar from satisfied. 
"Financial aid will be a pri­ority for some time to come. We're happy with the progress that we've made, but we're definitely not satis­fied with where we arc," said Beagan. "Tht, campaign was a wonderful catalyst for rais­ing increased dollars, but the fact that the campaign has concluded does not mean that we stop raising money." 
Eliminating future debt 
The University has set two main goals for financial aid according to Reagan. The first was to meet the demon­strated need of every Notre Dame student, and Generations has already reached and achieved that goal, said Reagan. 
Since most students who are on aid, have two loans, lleagan said that initially eliminating the cost of one of the loans and then eventually both, is the second goal of the University. 
"Our next goal is to raise enough endowment money to eliminate that first loan and then if we can keep the momentum going. eliminate that second loan as well." said Heagan. 
The current University cohort default rate is .6 per­cent. This means that out of the 47 percent of seniors on both Stafford and Perkins 
loans. less than one percent of them are unable to begin paying back the loans. While tho percentage is remarkably low, Brandt said that the University remains concerned with the necessity of some students taking out and then repaying loans. 
"It's definitely a University goal to monitor student edu­cational indebtedness, and anything that we can do at the University to help offset student loans is definitely a goal," said Brandt 
With 74 percent of alumni participating in the Generations campaign. the next goal of eliminating loans may seem feasible. With a strong alumni base to build on, gifts to the University may continue to exceed goals and set new ones. 
"The greater Notre Dame community which includes alumni, but also many bene­factors. and just people in general who love Notre Dame -it's a great sign that we obviously have a very high quality experience here," said Husso. 
According to a survey administered by the alumni association, nearly 90 per­cent of Notre Dame gradu­ates said that they had a sat­isfactory experience. 
Compared to other univer­sities, this rate is not only exceptionally high, but it is instrumental to the continued success of fundraising pro­jects. 
"I think their expression of willingness to help suggests to some degree that they are probably in the position to do so in many cases, which sug­gests that they not only love the University and the expe­rience that they've had, but also that they're probably somewhat successful in life and have earned a position to do that," said Russo. 
The University's last fundraising project, the Strategic Moment Campaign, boasted an alumni participa­tion rate of 72 percent. 
"To think now 10 years later, with a commensurate increase in the number of alumni and then to have that participation rate actually increase is just a wonderful testimony to the loyalty of our alumni." said Reagan. 
Visit The Observer 
Wine. 


NeDleth 
continued from page 1 
Jenny had a great talent for listening. "For most of her life. I 
m u c h stronger than any differences. 
"She always accepted me for who I was," said Stephanie. 
Jenny also had a special relationship with her two nieces. 
She loved to play Legos and Super Mario Kart with Josh's 4-year-old daughter Morgan. 
"Jenny would run up her charge cards ... just so she could buy Morgan every­thing," he said. 
Stephanie had planned to have Jenny be the godmother for her infant daughter Madison. According to Stephanie, Jenny was the only one who could consistently make Madison smile. 
Jenny's own grin was well­loved by her family. 
"To me, she just had the cutest smile," said Josh. "When she walked into a room it just lit up." 
Jenny smiled often when 

talked and "/ was proud ofwho she she lis­
was, that she had her
tened," 

own set ofstandards,
s a i d 

Stephanie. that she had common Although 
sense."
they dis­
agreed at 

times, their Paula Nemeth 
bond was Jenny's mother 
thinking about a planned spring break trip to Disney World. 
"She want­ed to see it again through Morgan's eyes," said Paula. 
E v e n though she was looking 
forward to the trip, however, 
Jenny. 
Like many friends, Katie and Jenny liked to go shop­ping. but they especially loved thinking about one particular item. 
"We were both obsessed with cars," said Egan. A favorite pastime was to visit­ing an auto dealerships to dream about future purchas­es. Jenny looked forward to getting a Toyota 4-Hunner for graduation. 
Jenny hoped to pursue a career in education or social work. 
"She wanted to work with children," said Josh. 
Jenny, 20, had already achieved much. 
"I was proud of who she was, that she had her own set 
she'd offered to let Stephanie take her place. "Everyone else always came first," s a i d Stephanie. 
If a friend was sick, or a sibling 

"She is just the epitome ofwhat is good and what God means by placing an 
angel on earth. " 
Stephanie Nemeth Jenny's sister 
needed a babysitter. Jenny's emphasis on 
of stan­
dards, that 
she had 
common 
sense," said 
Paula. 
According 
t (J Stephanie, Jenny never took life for granted w i t h family and 
studies became secondary. 
"She sacrificed her time, or just herself for others," said Josh. 
Egan said she would cherish the time that she spent with friends rather than life ·s small details. 
"She's just the epitome of what is good and what God means by placing an angel on earth," said Stephanie. 



ATION 
Tuesday, March 6, 2001 
COMPILl-m FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Bridge collapses in Portugal: Divers secured by cables .,gainst a powerful current searched for a bus and two cars with at least 60 people inside that plunged 165 feet into a swollen river after a bridge collapsed beneath them. Crews in motorboats strung cables across the fast-flowing Douro River while divers attached to the cables searched the murky brown water for the double-decker 
bus. 
Violence flares in Macedonia: 
Guerrillas and Macedonian troops exchanged fire Monday in a mountainous border area not far from where U.S. peacekeepers were step­ping up patrols in Kosovo to stem an ethnic Albanian insurgency. Gun and mortar fire rang out Monday in Lhe hills near Tanusevci, 20 miles north of Macedonia's capital, Skopje. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Weather hampers recovery effort: 
Military crews pulled the data and voice recorders from the wreckage of a National Guard cargo plane but slick, muddy condi­tions hampered the recovery of the 21 vic­tims' remains. Rescue teams have waded through 3 feet of slippery mud caused by a 4­inch deluge of rain Saturday, when the C-23 Sherpa crashed in a field in south-central Georgia, killing everyone on board. 
lditarod officially begins; Three-time lditarod winner Jeff King was the first mush­er out of the chute in Williow, Alaska, Sunday at the official start of the 1,100-mile race that pits 68 dog teams against the elements and each other. The start of the race was moved here after the ceremonial opening of the con­test Saturday in Anchorage because of a lack of snow to the south. "They're definitely fast," King said of his team as he gave each dog a reassuring hug before setting off. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
House fire kills two; Two Campbellsburg men died of smoke inhalation in a fire that leveled a residence Saturday afternoon. The Brown-Vernon Fire Department responded to a call that a residence was burning about 3 p.m.. according to a dispatcher at the Washington County Sheriff's Department. Cecil Nicholson, 73, and his son Norman Nicholson, 38, were pronounced dead at the scene by Washington County Deputy Coroner Tony Floyd, the dispatcher said. The dispatcher said the residence was a total loss. 
Market Watch 3/5 

Dow 
10,562.30 +95.99

]ONES 
CompositeUp: Same: Volume:
I,651 195 
NIA 
AME}(: 92.6;97;3~1!\:"~~0,,ai~~
.,. ·· ... ·=«i=:.,;:ffl:,;.,;~::liW;..~~M.J1f.:wffies~:jlj: 
Nasdaq: 2142.92 +25.29 NYSE: ·· 62&.:s; .::1,-,,.~i'\1~ 

. '··.•,•-~'~~~~;;i;Jj S&P 500: 1241.41 +7.23 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COM PANY/SEClJRITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +4.02 ,0.S? 23.08 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) ,Q.74 +0.13 17.00 NASDAQ I00 SHAR (QQQ) +1.82 +0.S5 47.55 SLIN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) . 6.10 . 1.32 20.94 INTEL CORP (!NTC) d.64 +1.07 JO.JS 

Associated Press 

SANTEE, Calif. 
A 15-year-old freshman opened fire at his high school on Monday, killing two youths and wounding 13 other people, authori­ties said. One witness said the youth smiled as he fired. 
One person was dead at the scene and 14 others were injured, Santee Fire Department spokesman Jeff Fehlberg said. Later, a second victim died at Grossmont Hospital. It was the largest number of dead and wounded in a school shooting since the Columbine tragedy nearly two years ago. 
Both of the dead were juveniles, and at least two of those shot were campus supervisors at Santana High School, Sheriff William Kolender said. 
Chris Reynolds, the father of one of the sus­pect's friends, told KGTV he heard over the week­end that the teen-ager had a gun. 
"I do regret that I didn't do something because I should've stepped up even if it wasn't true and stuff to take that precaution," Reynolds said. "If some­one did die over there and stuff, that's going to be haunting me for a long time, that's going to be with me for a long time. It just hurts because I could've maybe done something about it." 
Student John Schardt said he was in a nearby classroom when the shooting started at about 
9:20 a.m. in a nearby boys room. "I looked at the kid, and he was smiling and shooting his weapon," Schardt, 17, told KGTV. 
"It was total chaos. People were trying to take cover," Schardt said. 
One deputy was teach­ing a class at the time of the shooting and was at the site within moments, Kolender said. 
Students were escorted to a nearby shopping cen­ter. Television images showed a parking lot full of students and parents milling anxiously while paramedics took away the injured. Classes were can­celed for Tuesday and counselors would be avail­able, officials said. 
Another student, Alicia Zlimmer, told the station· she froze with fright until her boyfriend pushed her out of the way. "I dropped my stuff; it's still there right in the middle of the hall. It was really scary." she said. 
Zimmer said she didn't see the shooter but she did see one girl with blood on her arm and a boy lying face down on the floor. 

Cheney has surgery to wider1 artery 
November but. quickly resumed a Doctors inserted a flexible tube 
Associated Press 

full schedule after an operation to into the narrowed artery carrying a WASHINGTON open the blocked artery. collapsed balloon. 
Vice President Dick Cheney, who Reiner said he did not believe Once the balloon was in place, it has had four heart attacks, under­Cheney had suffered any additional was inflated, reopening the artery. went an angioplasty Monday for a heart damage. The procedure is called angioplas­partially blocked artery after going Cheney checked himself into the ty. to a hospital with chest pains. hospital after feeling chest pain Reiner said there was a 40 per­
The artery, which had been briefly on two occasions on Monday cent risk of renarrowing of the opened in late November, had par­after earlier episodes on Saturday artery. tially reclosed, his cardiologist, Dr. and Sunday, Reiner said. During the procedure last Jonathan Reiner, told report&s. He said the episodes were "much November, one of Cheney's heart 
He said there was no evidence milder and very brief' when com­arteries was 90 percent blocked, so that Cheney had suffered another pared with the chest pains that doctors implanted a wire scaffold­heart attack. Cheney suffered in November. "The ing-like device called a stent to 
Cheney, 60, suffered his most symptoms were subtle" this time, push away the blockage and prop recent heart attack in late Reiner said. open the artery walls. 
page 6 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, March 6, 2001 

Going up. 

As you begin your ascent to the top, remember, it's what you learn along the way that counts. At Ernst & Young, you can have endless learning opportunities working with leading companies in FORTUNF leading industries. So when you get to your destination, you'll belong there. Ride with us. 100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TOWORKFORC'-.J 

ey.com/us/careers EJJ fRNST& YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 
Tuesday, March 6, 200 I The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Members debate academic freedom in University life 
By JASON McFARLEY 
Assistant Ni,ws Ediror 
Campus Life Council (CLC) members on Monday defeated a Faculty Senate-drafted reso­lution on student academic freedom and will likely reject two other measures at the body's next meet­ing.
t h e Council voted 8-3 Monday to refuse the senate proposal which highlights a discrepancy between the academic free­dom guaranteed to professors by the faculty handbook and that granted to students in du Lac. With both CLC faculty mr,mbers in favor of the reso­1u ti on, the vote marked vet another point of contention ·for the Council, which has strug­gled in recent weeks with in­fighting. 
Debate at the meeting may have also signaled the end for two other faculty senate reso­lutions that the CLC will con­sider at its March 26 meeting. One deals with disciplinary 


lutions were a veiled attempt respect for one another and a to permit student groups such willingness to listen with an 
hearing procedures for stu­dent organizations, and the other targets faculty participa­tion in major revisions of du Lac. 
Discussion Monday seemed to pit CLC rectors and admin­istrators at odds with faculty involvement in non-academic student life matters against professors Stuart Greene and Ed Manier. 
It was the second consecu­
tive meeting at which mem­
bers debated the issues. On 
Feb. 19, members agreed to 
table discussion and resume 
talks at the CLC's next meet­
ing. 
"To some degree, academic freedom extends bevond the vigorously disagree with the passage of these resolutions," said Kirk, assistant vice presi­dent for student affairs. "I will continue to fight them within the CLC because I don't believe they have a chance of passing in the Office of Student Affairs." 

Playing off concerns that the resolutions were a faculty attempt to jeopardize the Catholic character of the Notre Dame, Manier told members that the academic freedom the measures address does not contravene the moral mission of the University. 
"Academic freedom doesn't apply to everything, but it cer­tainly applies to groups like 
classroom, but · it doesn't apply to all areas of "I can assure you that I University life," 
will vigorously disagree 
Brother 

with the passage ofthese
Jerome Meyer, Knott Hall rec­resolutions." tor, said Monday. 
Bill Kirk
Bill Kirk, who 

assistant vice president for
called the reso­

lutions "funda­student affairs mentally flawed" at the 
the philos­ophy club or the gov­ernment club organiza­tions in which we should encourage the spirit of inquiry and advocacy," s a i d 

last CLC meeting, re-affirmed Manier, whose senate commit­his opposition to the proposals tee drafted the resolutions. Monday. But Father David Scheidler, 
"I can assure you that I will St. Ed's rector, said the reso­
.¦ 
.¦ 
Office of Information Technologies 

Don't come down with avirus... 
Lately, many campus users have been hit by computer viruses. Notre Dame has been hit by serious virus attacks in the past (e.g., Chernobyl in the late 1990's) that caused students, faculty, and staff to lose valuable data. The best protection against 
a virus is prevention. 

The O IT encourages users to protect themselves by: 
L Never open an attachment unless you know EXACTLY what the file is, even if it is from someone you know. 
2. 
Install virus scanning software such as McAfee. 

3. 
Keep your virus scanning software up to date by updating your virus definition files. 


To learn more, visit the Virus Alert Web page: 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~ndoit/virusalert/ 

Got a Tech Tip idea? Send it to ndoit@nd.edu 
Tech Tip 
as the Women's Resource Center (WRC) to engage in "question­a b I e " behavior. 
In April 1998 the University placed the center on probation 
"To some degree, academic fredom extends beyond the classroom, but it doesn't apply to all areas ofUniversity life. " 
Brother Jerome Me:rer Knot Hall rector 
open mind, the Council loses its potential for greatness," the students wrote in the letter. "At the current time, we feel that we are not only far from achieving this greatness, but also far from 

following sanctions for distrib­uting literature on abortion. The WRC has since been taken off probation. 
"What we're getting at is groups like the WRC which distributed questionable mate­rial under at least two faculty advisers," Scheidler said. "What worries me is that we will allow that kind of loose­ness to take place." 
Scheidler's frank comment followed a plea earlier in the meeting by student CLC mem­bers for the council to get past recent group dissension. Seven students wrote a letter calling for members to work more cooperatively and effectively to implement policy. 
"Without a basic sense of 
being even productive." 
Brendan Dowdall, Becky Hagelin, Luciana Reali, Jamie Sablich, Amy Szestak, Tony Wagner and Seth Whetzel signed the letter. 
"We believe the council is devohing due to long-standing feuds, bickering and name­calling, in addition to the aforementioned general lack of respect," the students wrote. 
Szestak encouraged each member to take the letter's intent to heart. 
"The letter speaks for itself. It calls for all of us to conduct ourselves better than we have in the past," she said. "It's not directed at one member but at all of us." 
Tuesday, March 6, 200 I . 

page 8 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
--_:=--~==---~-=-=---==----==----=============================-=================-======-=-===-============-========================~ 



Tuesday, March 6, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Hit songs still available on Napster 
crackdown prompted fresh fren­

• Bands unhappy 
zies of free-music downloads atwith new filtering other Web sites that use Napstertechnology software but are beyond the 
easy reach of recording industry lawsuits.

Associated Press For example, the Napigator 
program Monday showed more
SAN FRANCISCO than 96 million music files being
Napster Inc.'s new screening traded by almost half a milliontechnology failed Lo weed out 

people through computereven the most popular songs 

servers located as far away as

Monday, and music fans seeking Italy, New Zealand and Russia­frnc tunes flocked to a growing 
numbers that rivaled Napster

numbr.r of Napstcr clones, an 
ominous development for record  "This truly pushes  itself even as downloads peaked this  
labels. Attorney David Boies revflaled the  trading copyright music back to the underground. ,,  weekend. The music industry may h a v e  
new filtering technology Friday in an  P.J. McNealy analyst who folows the digital music industry  squelched Napster, but now faces an assortment of 

attempt to 
avoid a com­
plete, court-ordered shutdown, and Napster brgan phasing in it Sunday night to prevent copyright songs from being l'reflly swapped. 
On Monday. only a smattering of songs were blocked from the service, however. A spokes­woman for the music-swapping company declined comment on its struggle to block songs. 
A search Monday for Metallica's hit "Unforgiven" returned a "No matching files found!" response on one Napster server. 
However, a query for Mctallica's other songs, such as "Enler Sandman" and "I Disappear," resulted in easy downloads Monday. Searches for the top 10 Billboard hits ­including rapper Joe's "Stutter" and Crazy Town's "Butterfly" ­also were successful. 
Meanwhile, Napster Inc.'s 

The Faces Of Holy Cross 
., 

Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C 

Awarded Congressional Gold Medal July 13, 2000 
"I want nothing else, have never wanted anything else, have never been anything else but a priest." 
ANSWER ~ 
THECALL W 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
new file 
swapping ser­vices ii will be far more difficult to track down and sue, Aram Sinnreich, an analyst with Jupiter Research. said Monday. 
"This truly pushes trading copyright music back to the underground," said P.J. McNealy, an analyst who follows the digital music industry for Gartner. 
Napster said in a statement that the process of screening out copyright-protected file names, song titles and artists won't be easy. 
"It has involved a significant investment of time and resources," the statement said. "However, we believe it is supe­rior to shutting the service down and disbanding the community during the transition period to the new membership-based ser­vice." 
Howard King, attorney for 

Metallica and Dr. Dre., expressed frustration after speaking with Napster officials Monday. His clients have about 200 songs they want blocked, and many were still available. 
"They need to tweak their screen do some sort of a term­based analysis," said King, not­ing that Metallica's "Fade To Black" was still appearing on Napster, with various spellings using both letters and numerals. "If a week from now the results aren't better I think you would have to say I'd be dissatisfied." 
The software being installed on Napster's servers will block access to 1 million music files, Boies said. Because it will filter out variations on each song's title and artist's name, the actual number of tunes screened out . will be smaller, but officials refused to say how many distinct songs will be blocked. 
Napster's plan is a pre-emp­tive move against an injunction sought by the major record labels. which argue copyright holders and artists are not com­pensated for music traded on the service. Napsler has argued its computers do not store actual song files but rather direct peo­ple to other users' hard drives where the music can be down­loaded. 
In July, U.S. District Judge 
Marilyn Hall Patel granted the 
industry's request for a prelimi­
nary injunction and ordered 
Napster shut down for facilitat­
ing infringement. But last month 
the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of 
Appeals stayed the order pend­
ing its decision in the case. 
By Friday, all parties were 

back in court to discuss the case 
when Napster changed its tune 
and announced plans to start 
blocking songs. 
Father of lrtternet t"Wins speal~s out 
Tranda Wecker has said
Associated Press 
she regretted giving up the girls and wants them back.
NEW YORK In the CBS interview, Aaron 
The biological father of 
Wecker said he can take care
twin girls whose adoption 
of the girls because "I have a over the Internet has created steady job, I have a house, a an international uproar said lot of room, a very nice. ruralMonday that he had consent­setting. I'd just like my girlsed to giving up the children back home with me. That's ­because he thought it would 
I think that's the best for
be best for them. 
them." Ile acknowledged he
Aaron Wecker told CBS 
had had a drug problem butNews' "The Early Show" that said it was over, adding·, "A
he had left it up to his lot of people have a lot of
estranged wife, Tranda 
problems."
Wecker, to arrange the trans­
A spokeswoman for
fer and didn't meet any of the Johnson's adoption agency, A 
other par-
Caring
t i e s 
Heart, hasinvolved in 

"/ thought at the time denied the
the case. 

that it was best for the agency
A sells babies

California girls to join a family that 
and said it

couple say are together. .. is a legiti­
they tried to mate adop­
adopt the 
tion facili­

g i r I s Aaron Wecl<er 
tator.

through an father 
Internet adoption broker but lost them to a British couple who paid more. The girls are now in the cus­tody of British authorities. The California and British couples, along with both Aaron and Tranda Wecker separately, are vying for the 
twins in various courts. 

Aaron Wecker acknowl­edged he had supported hav­ing the girls put up for adop­tion after their birth in June. 
"Tranda and I were sepa­
rated," Wecker said. "We 
already have a girl that we're 
raising separated. I thought 
at the time that was best for 
the girls, to join a family that 
are together." 

Richard and Vickie Allen of 
Highland, Calif., say they 
began the process of adopting 
the babies when they paid a 
$6,000 fee to the Internet 
adoption broker, Tina 
Johnson. But later, Alan and 
Judith Kilshaw of Wales gave 
$12,000 to Johnson and 
adopted the children in 
Arkansas. The Kilshaws 
argue that the Arkansas 
adoption should stand. 


Wednesdaq 7 p.m. Monf gomery T~1eofer 
Sponsored by the Colle!ge Democrats and College Republicans 
For now, 
British offi­
cials are keeping custody of the twins unitil the legal picture becomes clearer. 
Aaron Wecker lives in the St. Louis suburb of Arnold. He has court actions pending in St. Louis and in Little Rock, Ark. 
The Allens also had brought court action in Little Rock, trying to convince a judge to set aside the Kilshaws' adop­tion as fraudulent. But on Friday, the Allens' Arkansas attorneys, Lynn Lisk and Ed Webb, said they wanted out of the custody case because molestation charges were filed against Richard Allen. The law firm's motion to withdraw was pending. 
It was unclear whether the 
Allens would try to hire 
another attorney in Arkansas; 
their prior phone number in 
California has been discon­
nected. Lisk said that when 
he told the Allens that his 
firm was backing out, Vickie 
Allen told him she believed 
the best place for the children 
would be with their natural 
fa1ther. 

VIEWPOINT 
f'\J._HE 
page 10 
VBSERVER 
Tuesday, March 6, 200] 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. BoK Q, Nmtt Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining H,11, Noire Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike C'.onnolly 
MANAGING fUITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Cillespic Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS fl)ITOR: Kerry Smith Sc.ENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARy's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR, Eli1.abe1h Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER, Kimberly Sprini;cr AD DUIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS AoMINISTRATORt Mike Gunville Wm ADMINISTRATOR: AJmi Turner CONTROLUR, Bob Woods GIVJ'HICS EDITOR: Jo,r Cudlar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MilNACERIGENEIW INFO.............631-7471 
FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADYt:RflSJNC .....................................63 l-6900/8840 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-53l3 NEW'S.....................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. !@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 observn. viewpoint. !@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu 
ScENE .... ....................................................63 !-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MA!tv's................. ............................631-4324 
obscrver.smc. !@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMs/WEB ADMINJSTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sice a1 http:llohm-ver.,ul.edu for daily updares ofcampus nc:ws, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, revi,ews and breaking n,ews from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student revicws 
advertise for palicies 
online features for spe­
and mes of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
10 meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the indcpendenl, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of1he Universicy of Notre Dame du Lac and Saini Mary's College. Editotial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of chc administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the righr IO refuse advertisements based on conrenr. 
The nc:ws is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Ediwr, Assistant Managing Editor and deparrment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the vic:ws of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint sp-~ae is avmbble to all readers. Th" free cxprcs.sion of all opinions through letters is cn<eouragcd. Leners to rhe Ediror must be ,igncd and mu.st include contact iriforma1ion. 
Quntiom r,garding OfJJnwrpolicies ,houldbe thrrct­,dro F.ditor in ChiefMilt, Co11noU1. 


Should Notre Dame join the Worker Rights Consortium (WHC)? Both the arguments for and against doing so make compelling points. There are two rubrics, however, that I have not found very help­ful. Let me say why. The first is that of "leading versus fol­lowing." One charge made is that while Notre Dame once was a leader, it now (because it has yet to join the WHC) is a follower. Joining the WRC, the argu­ment goes, would re-assert Notre Dame's leadership. 
This rubric is problematic both on empirical and ethical grounds. Empirically. there are already over 70 schools in the WRC. Even if it is the right thing to do, joining does not constitute leading, but good following. 
From an ethical perspective, whether Notre Dame leads or follows is besides the point. I think that in those instances where Notre Dame has led, it has been good leadership. The University has gone beyond the Fair Labor Association in three areas. It has refused to have its product made in countries, like China. where the freedom of association is not legally recognized; it has formed a regional committee for Latin America that will make full use of NGO's ­including religiously affiliated associa­tions -in monitoring; in its hosting of the Collegiate Living Wage Association meeting, it has indicated an openness to the question of the living wage not shown yet in the FIA. 
However, the merit of these actions rests not primarily with their leadership, but with whether they serve the well­being of workers. Also. the fact that join­ing the WRC constitutes following on Notre Dame's part should not be an argument against joining. 
The other rubric is that of "bottom-up versus top-down." The charge has been made that Notre Dame, because of its association with the FIA is operating top-down (which is bad), while the WRC operates bottom-up (which is good). Translated, this means that the FIA 

Todd David Whitmore 
The Common Good 

associates with powerful, wealthy inter­ests -most importantly, corporations ­while the WRC is organized on behalf of those at the bottom -namely, the work­ers. 
This rubi:ic conveys much that is true. Corporate licensees arc members of the FlA. but are not allowed to join the WRC. With some notable exceptions, corpora­tions primarily function on behalf of their profit margin and shareholders. In other words. they function self-interestedly. Here, I am in line with neo-classical eco­nomics. Corporate claims to be intrinsi­cally interested in the welfare of workers therefore ought to be viewed with healthy skepticism. 
However, we have seen that while Notre Dame is a member of the FIA, the University is not beholden to the associa­tion's policies and has at several points gone beyond them. Moreover, there are aspects of the WRC that are unavoidably top-down. I say this not faulting the WRC, but in recognition of the fact that any time someone intervenes on behalf of another, there is some aspect oftop­down activity -of the more powerful helping the less powerful. 
Liberation theologians have run into this conundrum: The more one describes a person or group of persons as oppressed, the more external action is required to alter the situation because oppressed persons, by defmition, have little or no agency. What happens, at least in interim. is that relatively better off persons and groups speak and act on behalf of the oppressed. 
The WRC is made up mostly of North American institutions of higher education and their students. It wants Notre Dame to join because the University is finan­cially and publicly powerful. 
If "top-down versus bottom-up" is our only rubric. then the WRC is stands con­victed because some top-down activity is unavoidable. 
Catholic social teaching's principle of subsidiarity provides a better guideline. The basic insight ofsubsidiarity is that those persons and associations most proximate to a situation are the best able to respond because they are most likely to have a fine-grained sense of the prob­lem. However, the role of larger and more remote institutions is not to aban­don the proximate persons and associa­tions, but rather to support them. (The Latin root of subsidiarity means "to sup­
port."I. In extreme cases, mom direct 
intervention may be necessary. 
The questions for Notre Dame and the WRC, then, arc what are the best modes of support and in what cases, if any, is direct intervention necessary. The argu­ment in favor of the WRC is that its 71 schools can provide a broad base with which to support workers. This is an important consideration. 
I have two concerns. First, the WBCs monitoring procedure is complaint­based. and thus offers no regular moni­toring visits. The problem with being oppressed, however. is that one is often kept from speaking. Regular monitoring visits is a better form of support for workers who are often denied the voice necessary to lodge a complaint. 
Second, the WRC's approach to moni­toring information depends more on pub­lic exposure in instances of non-compli­ance, whereas Notre Dame stresses negotiated remediation of the problems more. The criticism of Notre Dame's approach is that one can bargain end­lessly with little result and therefore no benefit to the workers. However, Notre Dame has shown that there are limits to its willingness to negotiate. It has. for instance, sent out letters to its more than 200 licensees that they are not to make Notre Dame products at the Teycon fac­tory near Monterrey, Mexico, due to instances of noncompliance with the University's code of conduct and failure in remediation. Production in this factory is grounds for termination of licensee contracts. 
The Teycon case evidences that Notre Dame will disclose when the situation requires. I am concerned that all too quickly disclosure will lead to plant clo­sure or relocation -and therefore job loss for workers -where remediation would otherwise have been possible. 
The decision concerning whether to join the WRC is not an easy one. Persons of good will and strong intellect can dis­agree. I look forward to learning from others in the Notre Dame community on this important matter. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor in the theology department. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT QUOTE OF THE OAY 
"Be a yardstick ofquality. Some people aren't used to an environment where excellence is expected. " 
Stephen Jobs founder of Apple Computer 


IEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Tuesday, March 6, 2001 BSERVER 
page 11 

Celebrate the goddess within you 
In just a matter of days, Spring Break good friend Billy Blanks. We pushed our­what I look like after a Step aerobics there is at least one good thing you like 
will bo upon us, Thank God. Because selves through the front kicks and the class.) about yourself. 1Nhether you like your really, don't we all need a break? Even uppercuts, all the while yelling profani­And all for what? Oh yes, I almost for­shiny hair, your impeccable wit, your though it is the last spring break of my ties at Billy and wishing him a painful got. My well-being. Exercise makes you rock hard abs or your ability to always
college career, I am completely OK with demise that included lots of sloth-like healthy. And lose weight. And feel great. be loyal and honest, celebrate it and the fact that I am onlv 
behavior on top of many, many Big And look great. And possibly do some realize that you are good. It is this type going home to spend· Extra meals from McDonald's. serious damage to your mind-set. of goodness that cannot be defined by a it with my parents I continually ask myself, Last week was Body Image bathing suit or an elliptical trainer or instoad of heading off though, as I am sure many Awareness Week. I will tell even Billy Blanks himself. Sorry kids, but to some warm tropical people do, why it is I put you that I am very aware of you have to do this one on your own. d(•stination that ends my poor body through all ~--~;;;of my body image. Sometimes Whether you are like me and work out in a vowel. I am glad this. Why do we do this? .,,,.--~-, it is good and sometimes only when I can drag my friend Beth into for this for one rea­My friend Emily says it is not so good. It varies it as well or you are on a rigid mapped son: I am definitely she likes to work out from day to day. month out schedule that gets you exercising not ready to see because it gives her a to month. I realize this three hours a day or even if you're on a myself in a bathing Molly chance to clear her and accept this. I three hour a month schedule, I cannot suit. And Cod help Strzelecki head. Clear my accept the fact that dispute the multitude of benefits from anyone else who head? I am too busy supermodel shmuper­exercising. I'm not saying that it is a bad saw me. trying to keep my model. my body does thing. Exercising is a very very good 
I chalk this up to Growing Up to head attached to not look like that and thing. But keep this in mind: unless your the fact that I have be a Kid my body so that I probably never will. I professional job :ls a personal trainer or not been faithful in can finish out that was simply not built an aerobics instructor. working out is following Cosmo's last round of that way and most not the be all end all of a "beautiful" per­eight exercises for a tight tushy or what­crunches and I do likely never will be, son. It is a cliche, but it is true: beauty is ever the get thin quick scheme is for this not mean nachos. I considering that I am in the eye of the beholder. You behold it month. Hence. my tushy is not tight, my have even over­not up for plastic ... not Cosmo, not the treadmill and it stomach is not solid and my arms are not heard other people surgery anytime soon. sure as hell is not beheld in a Tae-Bo alarming. In short. I am a winter won­say that they like ,~ .,.,. But again, I try. I try video tape. derland, hibernated pale skinned mess. working out, because I\., · to get some exercise, Magazine cover shots, here I do not it is fun. Fun? Soccer ~ (' ,\D ~• however "regular" a Molly V. Strzelecki is a senior writing come. is fun. Hockey is fun. ~, '). '\.-basis, even ifit is in two major at Saint Mary's and can be 
This is r:iot to say that I never exercise. Tennis is fun. The reached at strz7359@saintmarys.edu.
,r 1 \'\l' 
week spurts or sporadi-
I do try. In fact, one of my classes this Stairmaster is the bane , \ cally in between those She would like to thank all those who semester is Pilates, which is a type of of my existence. I am 'J (' \ ~ weeks. I do not try to be a have participated in kicking her butt into yoga that is all about strengthening and climbing to nowhere for 25 ' t' 1\) supermodel. I kind of like gear, especially 11lyson, Beth, Emily and lengthening your muscles without adding minutes and when I get there, being myself. Melissa. bulk, as well as without making you all I am semi-permanently red faced I saw some sidewalk chalk graffi­The views expressed in this column are sweaty and out of breath. And just to and glowing like a neon sign. (This ti last week that stated, "Celebrate the those ofthe author and not necessarily throw in a little cardiovascular workout, goes back to the old saying that horses goddess within you!" (For all you guys. those of The Observer. a few of my friends and I were very good sweat, men perspire and ladies glow. I change that to god and stay with me for about two weeks straight of getting at do not know who came up with that but I here.} What a great thing! Yes! Inside least the recommended 30 minutes three seriously question their case study, and outside everyone there is something times a week workout. thanks to our because you do not even want to see great. You cannot deny the fact that 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The truth about the sixth man problem 
This letter is in response to the letter entitled "Motivation for sixth man" from the March 5 issue of The Observer. 
When I read Kevin Kelly's article about the sixth man, I thought "Yes! Finally an opportunity to say something about the pending problem that we have with the enthusiasm level at our sports events." While I do agree with Kevin Kelly's enthusiasm to increase the noise level from our students, who are we really kidding by suggesting the problem is due mainly to the student body. During football games you see students going psychotic after each touchdown while the alumni mourn the fact that they actually have to get off their butts and start exerting energy in clapping. 
You mean I have to pay all that money for a ticket and cheer too? I swear those "Notre Dame fans" in the expensive gold seats have a some kind of cl~use that they have to remain silent during the game or lose their place as a penal­ty of expressing themselves. Am I bitter? ... Yes I'm bitter. I'm bitter that some alumni donations go specifically to the University in order to reserve tickets, while those who don't have thousands of dollars to give away go without the foot­ball games they love. 
I'm bitter that alumni who are "loyal" to their alma mater had no problem in sacrificing half of their tickets to incoming Nebraska. allowing the stadium to be infiltrated by a red sea of visiting fans. I'm bitter that three fourths of the Notre Dame audience spent thousands to travel down and enjoy swanky resorts but then left mid-third quarter of the Fiesta Bowl still calling themselves true blue Notre Dame fans. Keep in mind that this all occurred during our closest run for a national championship since the early 90s. Should we real­ly think the problem is any different at other sports events? While I thank Kevin and the dying breed of cheering alumni for their support of Notre Dame, let's set the record straight as to who the true fans are. 
Ryan Dick 
senior Keenan Hall March 5, 2001 

Defending Ex corde 
I am puzzled by the controversy surrounding the article on Ex corde Ecclesiae from the March 2, issue of The Observer. I am currently spearheading an effort to start a Catholic university in the Atlanta Metropolitan area; numerous Notre Dame graduates are involved as well. As part of our business plan development, we interviewed hundreds of acade­mics (including theologians) and business leaders. We see Ex corde as a beautiful roadmap for estab­lishing an authentically Catholic environment. Most people agree. In fact, most academics agree, with one primary exception: The required mandate from the local bishop for instructors teaching Catholic theology. Why is this an issue? Some erroneously claim that academic freedom will be undermined (it won't). Others resort to heated rhetoric and name­calling (not very charitable). Some have even refused to seek the mandate (in order to garner headlines). 
Departments of theology are hardly alone in this requirement. Outside agencies monitor nearly every program and activity at universities: Medical schools, law schools, business schools and schools of education all work under considerable outside con­trol. Earning a Ph.D. requires outside accreditation and certification. Catholic schools will simply be asked to engage in "truth in advertising." In other words, if schools claim to be "Catholic" and offer courses in Catholic theology, they should. it stands to reason, have someone teach those classes who both understands and respects Catholic theology. 
Ex corde seeks to reanimate a dynamic Catholic intellectual tradition. It also hopes to build the Church and enrich individual lives. Detractors of Ex corde posit red herring after red herring. Don't believe the hype. Read the document yourself. It is available online at www.excorde.org. 
Thomas J. Clements Dlllmh,Ga. March 5. 200 I 

CORRECTION 
William Jaworski, who wrote a letter to the Editor yesterday, is not a professor but is an off-campus philosophy graduate student. 
The Observer regrets the error. 

cctnec 
page I 2 ____ Tuesday, March 6, 200 I 
DMB releases first studio album in three years 
Everyday not for everybody 
Last Thursday night, six Notre Dame stu­dents piled into my Jeep and we began our trip to a rostaurnnt about 15 minutes away. I pulled out a mix tape to add some lively music to our journey, and within minutes, I was hap­pily singing to Ja Hule's lat­est single. "Put It On Me." 
The boy in the passenger seat quickly turned his head and with a laugh said, "ls this what you listen to in Kentucky?" lie had never heard the song, and l assume by the tone in his voice, he didn't care to hear it again. 
Sometimes I forget that my choice of music isn't normal at Notre Dame. since my friends are now used to my selections. They tolerate my Tupac poster. they know I will insist on watching the newest video on BET, MTV or Country Music Television, and they aren't sur­prised I purchased the latest album from Jagged Edge -an H&B group. 
Other people simply laugh when they thumb through my CD collection. I own rap, ranging l'rom E-40 to JayZ; country. ranging from Deana Carter to Clay Walker; and R&B/llip llop. ranging from K-Ci & JoJo to Keith Sweat. 
Despite Lhis wide range, there is one artist I don't own. and since I can borrow any of my friends' copies. probably never will own -The Dave Matthews Band. 
Last Tuesday, the new album was released and I knew the frenzy was about to begin. I watched the television shows preview the release. I received my mid-March edition of Holling Stone and the band was on the cover. 
In a short amount of time, I knew I would be on the outside of several conversations revolv­ing the new album and how great Dave Matthews is. It would be the topic of conversa­tion at the dining halls, LaFortune and parties over the weekend. 
I cringed -how could I think so different from the rest of the Notre Dame population? Why am I not rushing out to buy this CD? 
Perhaps I have no room to talk -being a fan of pop music and even boy bands, I shouldn't complain about obsessive fans -but it seems that Dave Matthews' fans assume people are ignorant if they don't like the band's music. If I complained that no one appreciates Ja Rule or Jagged Edge, people would laugh right in my face. 
I do think Dave Matthews is talented. He truly is gifted with the guitar, he seems to have mastered the instrument. It's not that l don't like his songs, the ones I've listened to have very intriguing lyrics. I just wish others would give my music the same respect I give to Dave Matthews. 
I must admit, I'm a little scared for my future. l'm not sure ii" I can rap along with the ncwf1st I.ii' Bow Wow track when I'm 45 years old. Can a Mom watch T111. and not be made fun of'' Come to think of it., can a 21-year-old watch THL without being made fun of? 
When I was in Chicago a few weekends ago, I went to trendy bar down town full of 20-some­things and Davo Matthews was blasting over the loudspeakPr. No 'Nsync. No Brittany. No Backstreet. "llow will I ever fit in to the mature, adult music world'1" I thought to myscll'. Ah well, I've never molded to the Notre Dame world. so why try to lit in now? 
The vfows expressed in this column are those ofthe aralwr and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Electric guitars and a new pop-oriented attitude leave many fans weary ofDaves latest 
By GEOFFREY RAHIE Scene M1.1sic Critic 
The Dave Matthews Band has always been known as an unusual musical ensemble lead by the unusual acoustic guitar strumming of leader Dave Matthews. Early critics jumped all over the band's freewheeling jam style and complained about the group's tendency to be long-winded. Everyday, DMB's first studio release in almost three years, throws all of these past reservations outside the window. 
The band decided to experiment on Everyday, and change up their typical rock/folk act. The album's departure from precious DMB style can be attributed to Matthews' new prefer­ence for electric guitar, Glen Ballard's tight pop control, and the sparse use of violinist Boyd Tinsley and sax/flute man Leroi Moore. 
The changes create mixed results for Everyday. The album's first guitar phrase is the first clue that Everyday is going to be different. The dirty elec­tric guitar tone on "I Did It" is a far cry from vintage DMB and the sing­along chorus is more suited for TRL than a college donn room. But at least the band is trying to branch out and change their sound. Life is all about taking chances, and the beginning of this record shows that this band is not backing down from making some adjustments. 
"So Right," one of the higher points of the album, relies on Matthews' funkiest guitar riff to date and Moore's booming contra bass clarinet. The song builds up to a climax where Moore plays an appropriate sax solo, one of only two open instrumental solos in the album -the other honor goes to Carlos Santana on "Mother Father." The absence of sax solos might disappoint die-hard fans. but in general, Moore is used perfectly on this album. While there were com­plaints of too much sax on previous records, Moore's work is focused and perfectly placed. 
The same cannot be said for the vio­lin work of Tinsley. A perennial crowd favorite at DMB live shows, Tinsley holds a small supporting role on Everyday, contributing no solos to the set and basically playing distantly in the background. In fact, most of his work cannot be appreciated until the listener hears the album for the first time though headphones. llis biggest contribution is on ''Fool to Think." which also happens to be the album's best track. Ballard used many effects, including wah-wah on Tinsley's instrument. but the final product is pretty disappointing. Tinsley, who used to be a vital part of this group, is reduced to a spot player on this effort. 
Ballard also undermines the work of Carter Beauford and Stefan Lessard. While Matthews and Ballard share writing credits on all 12 songs, Ballard is solely responsible for all of tho arrangemenl.S. In a nutshell, Ballard basically told the rest of the band what to play on the record. The rhythm sec­tion could have been handled by the drummer and bassist from Hootie and the Blowfish for all we know. The bass parts arc relatively simplistic, as per usual DMB. but the drumming is just sad. Beauford is known for putting his stamp on tunes such as "Two-Step,'' but not a single track reveals his influ­ence on Everyday. 
For what it's worth, Matthews really shows maturity on this record. both as a guitarist and vocalist. His guitar work on this album reveals influences ranging from the Police to James Taylor. He croons on some songs and applies a sinister inflection on others such as "What You'Arc." The lyrics on the record are either beautiful or just cheesey. The desperation in "Fool to Think" feels so real and the emotion in 'The Space Between" really picks the record up. But for every beautiful lyric on this album, there is an equally stu­pid line. Some highlights include "Why do I beg like a child for your candy?" from the horrendous "Angel" and "Spread the love you got, you got the love" from "I Did It." There are no captivating lyrical pieces on this disc as there were on previous releases ­no take-charge anthems like "Lie In Our Graves" or heart-felt love songs like "Crush." 
This disc is a pop album. And that's pretty much a mixture of the good and the bad. The good thing is that there are no other groups right now making pop albums like this. Bands like Aerosmith try to stay on the cutting edge by collaborating with such high profile acts as Nellie and Brittany Spears, but when push comes to shove they are writing the same songs that they wrote 15 years ago. At least DMB 

Dave Matthews Band RCA Records 
Rating 
......... 
is trying hard to make an album that appeals to the masses without playing into industry standards. How many pop acts write titles like "Dreams or Our Fathers?" 
The bad thing about this album is that this band is capable of so much more. Jerry Seinfeld always said it is best to leave the audience wanting more. Everyday definitely leaves the listener wanting more, but it's hardly for the best. There's no smooth transi­tion between any two songs. Where Before These Crowded Streets foll like a unified work. Everyday is all dis­jointed. A witty ending to "When the World Ends" is ruined by the immedi­ate start of "The Space Between" for example. And that's not even mention­ing the horrible order of tracks. "So Right," a perfect opener candidate, is buried in the middle of the album while "Everyday" ends the album with a very confused feeling. And the indi­vidual talents of these five men are not allowed to blossom. Perhaps the release should have been called The Dave Matthews and Glen Ballard Duet as it is not the work of a band. 
Despite all of its flaws, Everyday does a satisfactory job of delivering some good tunes. Sure this album is 
probably the band's least inspired. but the experimenta­tion is commend­able. 
Everyday proves that Matthews is in fact pretty compn­tcnt on guitar. The problem is we all know the other four guys arc more than adequate on their respective instru­ments. 
People can always go to bands like Creed if' they arc simply looking for some easily for­gettable ear candy. The Dave Matthews Band was known for writing songs that really made you think. All good things must come to an end. 



C<tnec 
Tuesday, March 6, 2001 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Over-production ruins new MGB release 
By SAM DERHEIMER 
A"iscanr Scene Editor 
The album starts off with a rumble... "K-i-c-k-a-s-s! That's the way we spell success!" Had the Matthew Goud Band only stuck to this theme, Beautiful Midnight. the band's la.test studio album and first U.S. release. might have been much better. 
As U is. this two-time double platinum Canadian rock band has done little to make a name for itself in the States. Along the lines of its northern brethren, The Tragically Hip, MGB is an honest and hard-work­ing rock band that. though not for lack of trying, sim­ply just lacks any noticeable edge that might separate it from an already over-polluted American rock scene. 
Beautiful Midnight starts out strong with "Giant," one of the heavier tracks on the disc. The song closely follows the structural pattern of the majority of early 90s grunge tracks: verses constructed of soft, wailing guitar rifts loosely coupled with quietly lamenting vocals that quickly combine into an intense and unified chorus in which everyone seems to turn his instru­ment up a couple notches. And despite the realization that such a song structure is pretty much lifted directly from just about anything Pearl Jam or 
Soundgarden have ever written, the song 
works, and is easily one of the best on 
the album. The problem is, while "Giant" might 
not be remarkably original. it is at least a 
good song -the same can not be said of 
the majority of the rest of the album. It's not so much that the rest of the songs on Beautiful Midnight arc bad, they just aren't particularly great or even memo­rable for any reason. However, the fault here may not lie completely with the band. Beautiful Midnight is an exceptionally tight album. Nothing is out of place. Every song is clean and pol­ished and every note precisely where it should be. The problem is. by the end of the album, every­thing just starts to sound the same. It's virtual­ly impossible to tell "A Boy and His Machine Gun" from "Failing the Rorschach Test" from "The Future is X-rated." With very few excep­tions, the band is never allowed to truly cut loose of its tightly binding production chains and really rock. 
The album is simply over-pro­duced. 
"Deep 6ix," one 

of the few songs in which Good is able to really explore his true rock identity is by far one of the stand-outs on Beautiful Midnight. Unlike almost every other track on the album, the guitar work is both cre­ative and explosive, and the vocals are for once truly energetic and passionate. Where songs like "Load Me Up" are overly simplistic a.nd little more than bland, "Deep 6ix" breaks from the mold and showcases the band's true ability to write quality rock music. Unfortunately, other than "Giant," "Deep 6ix" and perhaps the overtly cynical "Jenni's Song," MGB pro­vides little to back this claim up. 
The majority of Beautifull Midnight is unfortunately better summed up in a trnck like "Born to Kill." It's obvious that Good was attempting to create a song with real power and emotion, however with the strict pop limits apparently placed on his song writing (whether self-imposed or handed down). the song ends up lost in itself, and is left completely void of any real potency it ever had. 
The same can be true of the band's first single off Beautiful Midnight, "Hello Time Bomb." It's not that "Hello Time Bomb" is a bad song, it's just that it is not a particularly good one either. and in the extremely fickle world of rock 'n' roll, that therefore makes it a bad song. The track, like much of the album, is heavily influenced by former new-wave acts like the Clash and the Police, but fails to truly trans­late those dynamics into anything that might really stick out today. 
It's easy to discern that this band has some real tal­
ent. Perhaps if it is ever able to break free from such 
a stifling overly pop-oriented production, the Matthew 
Good Band might just come out with a remarkably 
good rock 'n' roll album. 


UPCOMING CONCER!'t 
Slash•s SnakepH Umphrey•s McGee .: · 
,·> --,.._.:·:'?1!lai1'.:'.:>.:. . 
Na-cchllox 'twen1:y · . Conseco A Perfec• Circle Pepsi .Calt-~q ·.. Pantera ,,,.·.·pepst Col•seu Bela Fleck Nura1 Theater Ani ••Franco ·. Murai Theater Davlld Gray Nura(Room'' s· U1. Conseco 
Ors-, ·:#•·flo.11_··, Saw Doctors Net Noe. <ARiY TheCorrs. ..·. :~i,,Clt'ic'·' 
Nll9hty N•ahty 
Bosstones Netro•c 
Godsmack u1c;pQ~l1 
Guster R•v••ra ·..•,. Courtesy Of ~-C~'i~a.,i~r'\\c.,
...,:;::::0.%,,-:,~•:::,;~'<««i~~~:iw:::1'.!:mir;~~fj:.;Gt:::';K->c':::~::;.,~;:'~•.,-;:,Y•,•.,-.•'' ,·.•.­

r ----­
' 
page 14 

The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 6, 2001 
I
I 
I BASEBALL 
Irish return to South Bend after weekend split 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Spom Writer 
Weather wise, it's a shame 
that a team goes down to 
Floriua to play a tournament 
and has to come back to South 
Bend. 
Notre Dame took their No. 10 ranking and five game win­ning streak on the road in the Devil Hays College Invitational in St. Petersburg. The Irish left th11 sun and came back to the snow having chalked up a win over rlorida Atlantic University on Friday and a loss to South Florida on Saturday. Sunday's game against Western Michigan was rained out. 
"I think we were disappoint­ed we couldn't got a sweep of the weekend," said Saturday's starter Daniel Tamayo. "It's a baseball thing -you have to lose sometime." 
All-American Aaron. Heilman took the hill Friday against a Florida Atlantic squad that would only get five hits against the senior Irish righthander. 
Heilman worked a full nine­inning shutout, striking out nine while leading the Irish to a 3-0 victory. 

The middle of the order would supply Heilman with some run support starting in the fourth. manufacturing two runs on singles by centerfield­er Steve Stanley and shortstop Alec Porzel, and RBI singles by catcher Paul O'Toole and !eftffolder Kris Billmaier. 
lleilman would face his only jam of the game in the next inning, when Florida Atlantic put runners on first and third with no outs. 

13ut Heilman kept the ball down in the zone as he did all day, and got Dean Devine of the Owls to hit into a double play. Heilman retired Rob Orton on a foul popup down the third base line to close out Florida Atlantic's at-bat. 
The third Irish run would come by way of singles as well, as Joe Thaman singled in the seventh. Designated hitter Ken Meyer then advanced Thaman to third on a hit-and­run to rightfield. Thaman was able to score when a pitch got 
past Orton later in the inning. 
"Really two factors con• 
tributed to us playing small 
ball with singles and advanc­
ing the runners," said 
Tamayo. "We w~re missing 
Brian Stavisky. our big power 
guy." 
"Also. the park was a major 
league spring training park. 
The wind was blowing in all 
weekend, and we weren't 
going to try to hit the ball over 
anyone's head." 
Heilman dropped his season 
EHA to a superhuman 0.86 
and ran his season record to 
3-0 with the shutout victorv. 
Outstanding starting pitch­ing by Tamayo was not enough to power the Irish past South Florida on Saturday. The Irish only mustered five hits against senior John Vique, who threw just 95 pitches in a complete game. 
"I used my curveball more that game than earlier games," said Tamayo. "My change-up was my most effec­tive pitch consistently." 
South Florida struck early, grabbing a 1-0 lead in the secJ ond when Daniel Boyd dou­bled and Ben Drawdys singled up the middle for the Bulls. 
The game would stay at 1-0 for the next 4 1/2 stanzas. Notre Dame briefly threatened with two runners on and no outs in the fourth. But Porzel flied out, and O'Toole ground­ed into a double play to end the inning for the Irish. 
Steve Sollmanns lead off to set the Irish up to score in the seventh. The freshman laid a bunt down the third base line. Porzel then launched a fly ball to leftfield, but Boyd lost the ball in the stadium lights. O'Toole then walked. setting up Joe Thaman's fly out that advanced Porzel to third and Sollmanns across the plate. 
Notre Dame would not score for the rest of the game, and would allow South Florida to break out for five runs before the game was over. 
The deluge started in the top half of the eighth, when sophomore righthander J.P. Gagne was brought in to relieve Tamayo. Mike Macaluso of the Bulls reached when his popup fell between Gagne and third baseman Ben Cooke, and a then a bunt and Leslie sparked South Florida just 31 batters to the plate in a single by Myron Leslie to to three more runs in the the loss, just four over the 27 score Macaluso. ninth with a double. minimum. 


Mike Eylward singled home Gagne (0-1) was charged "Even though we were dis­another run and the Irish with the loss, while Tamayo appointed, we have a sense found themselves down two received a no-decision. that we haven't lost anything runs 3-1 with just six outs left. The Irish were able to bring as a team," said Tamayo. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: 3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near Microwave stand w/ storage I want to get out of here Make a difference in the life of a campus 2001 /02&summer 272· $175 Call Kim 631-5878 child! Summer therapy camp for 6306 Soon I will 
WANTED FOR SALE 
children with disabilities. Located on Beautiful brass bed, queen size, shore of Lake Superior near Big HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)4-br wijh orthopedic mattress set and and then i will get to walk in the hor-Bay, Ml. Positions available lor $700/monlh 2)3-br $600/month SPRING BREAK-DOWNTOWN deluxe frame. All new, never used, rilbly cold weather 
Fraternities'Sororilies Counselors, Lifeguards, Instructors We'll make almost any changes to CHICAGO! still in plastic. $235 Clubs•Student Groups for Nature/Arts & lhe houses. Call Bill at 675-0776 $22-25/night-Hostelling lntOI $2 219-862-2088 i really have nothing else to say Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester Crafts/Recreation/Canoeing, OFF WITH AD with the easy Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, 4-BR HOUSEi CENTRAL AIR SEC 312/360-0300 or 89 Toyota Corolla manual 1OOK hey kris and kale and lauren • i will Campusfundraiser.com three hour and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, SYS ETC. $600/MONTH. 291-2209 www.hichicago.org highway miles missing living with you guys bunch-fundraising event No sales responsible, and love children. June Macos@michiana.org $2300 call 273-3149 es and bunches next year required. Fundraising dates are fill-17 through August 12. Salary, PHONE CARDS ing quickly, so call todayl Contact Room & Board, and experience of a 3-5 bedroom homes $20: Spring Break Appetizer Campusfundraiser.com al lifetime provided. Call or write for close to campus 2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR· Mexican Blankets from $12.95 + hello Mrs. Walter! 
(886) 923-3238, or application and information. Bay 232-2595 CHARGE S&H visit www.campusfundraiser.com Cliff Health Carnp, 310 w. mmmrentals@aot.com or Mel<iconnection.com 
Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, $20 yes you, Mrs. Waller, a.k.a. Kate's Need babysitter. pref Early ed Ml 49855, (906)228-Sno, e-mail 2 BR HOUSE PERFECT FOR SIN-362 MIN WITH NO FEES morn maier, own trans 2-yr.-old by BayClittHC@aol.com OLE/COUPLE $300/MO. Dave 291­
PERSONAL

Martins 2209 634-1146 CLAUDIA Hello Stephanie, thanks so much 272-1205 634-421 OSARA for letting me know about my poor, 
3-bdrm. House for rent Fall 01. 2 sick friend Roomate for Sweet FOR RENT blks from campus Feel better Bot 28R+loft Oak Hills Condo Wooded 1/2 acre lots 20 minutes to mary henrick is scandalous View of Dome, Laundry, Fireplace, 2·4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT. 2-4 PERSON HOUSE FOR RENT. Notre Dame Football. Minutes to Hello kalie metzi • $400/mo.+ult. NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE NEWLY RENOVATED. THREE US Golf Academy. Contract avail-hey room 303 alumni Sum&/or next yr. BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. CALL able. $20,000 Phone (219) 473-mario may be my Italian lover, but 
289-5651 CALL 29-298-3800 219-298-3800. 0191 you wUI always be my valentine! have a great tuesday alll 
"' -... .. --.. -• ------.. .. --.. .. .. .. -• • ----.. --.. .. .. ,. f ... • • • • .. -.. • • • • .. .. • ~ • -----.. • • .: ----• • .. • ---..... -.. ., • .. • .. • -• • .. •· • • .. .. • 1-.. .. • ----.. .. ... .. --• • .. .. -J 
Tuesday, March 6, 2001 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 15 
FIF~ST
CREDIT 

BC)STON
SUISSE 

DARWIN WAS WRONG ABOUT EVOLUTION IN ONE REGARD. IT ISN'T ALWAYS SLOW. 
We would like to congratulate the University of Notre Dame Class of 2001 and welcome the following people to our team: 
Matt Alles Christopher Lombardi Christina Dilaura William McDougall Joshua Earl Matthew McKenna Christopher Fanella Michael Smith Eric Geveda 
CSFB IEMPOWERING CHANGE:" 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
CCopyright 2001 Credit Suia1MJ First Bosio, Corp. Al riijht11 reserved. 

I I I 
-I 
I 
I 
. '' 
I I 
Tuesday, March 6, 200 I
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

No. 5 Irish lose first game to Midwestern team since 1996 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Wrirc:r 
The 5th ranked Notre Dame women's tennis started off the weekend on a tough note Thursday with a 4-3 loss to 11th ranked Northwestern. This loss marks the first time the Irish have been defeated by a Midwest region opponent since 1996. The win by the Wildcats is the first over the Irish in the past five years. 
Despite winning the doubles point and the lirst two singles matches. the Irish strug­
After the doubles point. the Irish won four singles matches in straight sets. The Irish were led by the play of third-ranked all-American Michelle Dasso once again, as she defeated the 31st-ranked Dascoli for the second time that day. 
Freshman Caylan Leslie, along with Kimberly Guy and Lindsay Green, all won impressively in straight sets to clinch the win for the Irish. 
The pressure of being a top­5 team and traveling nearly every weekend has been a mental and physical burden 
for the Irish. 
"It has been 
gled with the  "Being ranked fifth in the  three weeks  
difficult con­ditions in Evanston, and the  country we should have been able to deal with the conditions and do better  of after and times  match match some­we feel  
Wildcats  and we will work on that  like  we  are  
swept the final four sin­ in the future."  just visiting at Notre  
gles matches,  Dame," said  
winning 4-3.  Becky Varnum  Varnum.  
"It  was  a  Irish tennis player  "Ohio  State  

little disap­pointing because our goal was to beat all the Midwest teams," said Becky Varnum, who won in both doubles and singles. 
~we knew we were going to have a battle and that it was going to be tight," said Varnum. "It was really hard to play there, it was really dark and there were a lot of prob­lems with the calls." 
But Varnum said the Irish should have overcome the conditions and the Wildcats. 
"Being ranked fifth in the country we should have been able to deal with the condi­tions and do better and we will work on that in the future," she said. 
After the disappointing result in Evanston, the Irish traveled to Columbus to take on 21st ranked Ohio State. 
The Irish came out on a mis­
sion, first winning the doubles 
point with impressive victories 
at Nos. 1, 2. and 3 doubles. 
The seventh-ranked Irish pair 
of Michelle Dasso and Varnum 
set the pace as they took down 
Kristy Dascoli and Monica 
Hincon 8-5 for the second time 
this season. 
was one of 
tho last 
matches of the streak and we knew we just had to buckle down and play hard." 
The team proves to be a very solid and close group, and they use their friendships off the court to pull together and play well on the court. 
"We have always been pretty tight," said Varnum, "but this year the camaraderie is really great, we all get along so well." 
The Irish this year have seen some players really step up and contribute to the team but they have all progressed quite well as an entire group. 
"Dasso has been playing 
really well but Nina (Vaughan) 
and Lindsay (Green) have 
really stepped up and have 
had some really big wins at 
doubles for us, they are a new 
team and have really come a 
long way," said Varnum. 
"One of the biggest things 
this year has been everyone's 
dedication. This year everyone 
is really dedicated and it is the 
little things individually as 
well as a team that are impor­
tant to our success." 


KYLIE CARTER/The Observer 

A Notre Dame tennis player, shown above, hits the ball In a match earlier this year. The No. 5 Irish fell to No. 11 Northwestern In a 4-3 upset. 
2001 SCIENCE CAREER FAIR 
Tuesday, March 27th 
Noon -5:00 p.m. 

Joyce Center Heritage Hall 
Employers Attending 
AAR 

Accenture (formally Andersen Consulting) 
Albany Molecular Research, Inc. · Allstate Insurance Company Argonne Natlonal Laboratory Central Intelligence Agency Chicago Publlc Schools Clark Environmental Mosquito 
Management, Inc. Cole-Parmer Instrument Company COMPENDIT, Inc. Eli Lilly and Company (Biological Science) Ell Lilly and Company (Chemistry) GE Medical Systems Golden Apple Foundation Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Hershey Foods Corporation IBM Corporation International Foundation of Employee 
Benefit Plans 

J.F. New & Associates Lab Support, a division of On Assignment MediChern Research, Inc. NOAA (National Oceanic & Atmospheric 
Administration) Northwestern Memorial Hospital Pfizer -Global Research & Development Group 
Pharmacia Corporation 
Sigma-Aldrich, Inc. 
Stepan 
Summerbrldge National 
Teach For America 

Order of St. Augustine -The Augustinian 
Volunteer Program 

U.S. 
Air Force 


U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency 

U.S. 
Marine Corps 




Cover Letter/Resume Drop 
*Cover Letter MUST be Included with resume* 
Chiron Corporation Easter Seals Wisconsin Farmers Insurance Group Janssen -Pharmaceutlca Lockheed Martin Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
Center Pfizer -Pharmaceuticals Group Purdue Pharma L.P. The Children's Museum of Indianapolis The Rockefeller University WYETH 
Attending Arts & Letters career fate 
Drug Enforcement Administration Federal Bureau of Investigation Ortho-McNell -Pharmaceutical Sales 
How do I Identify the companies attending OI' providing resume drops at the Fair? 1. Go to http;//careercenter.nd.edu 2. CIiek on "Undergraduate" 3. CIiek on "Go IRISH" (left scroll bar) 4. Log onto "Go IRISH" (If you have not activated your account. call 631-5200) 5. CIiek on "Find Jobs" 6. Scroll down to "Advanced Search" 7. Scroll down to "Career Center Events" 8. CIiek on "College or Science Career fair" JO. CIiek on "Search"  

C 
.~ 
~ 
Cl ~ 1' 
C 
CV 
c' 
Cl
-
:c·-w, 
t:
a: 
i'
a: 
111­
0 
~ 
C 
m 
E
-
L. 
to 
C. 
I> 
a 

The o.partment o(Art,Art Hlltoiy and Design ~ pleased to announce ib annual competition for th• Rilty Pri.te in Art H1ttory &; Critlcism. C11rren.t Notre Dur,e und.rrgraduatt> and graduate ,tudmta a.re invited to ,ubmit -rs on-,iy topic1nd\ei.tO'}'ol U1 or ut c:riticillln fox wnaidtratiOJ\ itl tht CQ!TlPftit\011. Essays must deal witt, the visual ans. They may hlYe beer\writtenin conjunction with• oowwtaJc-.n at the Univtnity, but nnid not h.v, bem. 
Rulin gi:wemlng the Q)IJ'pe11tlon ~ avaiuble in the Art 'Ditpartmlflt Offi", lwo cop• Qf the ,ubrrussion m\l8t be deU•ered to the M Dq,mmmt OEike, 132 O'ShaughNtly Mall, by 3:00 PM, Monday, Masch 46, to be •liS1ble. A stud111nl may tJnly wbmit ONE entry. 

Sponsored by The Career Center ,., See Go Irish for Jobs and Career Center Events,., 
Tuesday, March 6, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
a goal 3:09 into the period. The teams then played even hockey until a three-goal burst in a two­min utc period made the score an embarrassing 7-1. Notre Danw got one back with 54 sec­onds left in thr game when Sam Cornelius scornd to make up the linal score of7-2. 
"It was a disappointing end to a disappointing year," said Poulin. 
Notre Dame would not have been in their position on Saturday without winning on Friday night The Irish went into Kalamazoo and defeated Western Michigan 5-4. Notre Uame was lead by junior David Inman. who had a goal and two assists in the winning effort. Captain Ryan Dolder scored the game-winning goal with 7:40 left in the third period. 
Thr abrupt end to the season hit the team extremely hard especially for the seniors. Nol.re Dame had made the CCI-IA play­ofls each of the past three sea­sons. The current Notre Dame seniors were still in high school the last time the Irish were not a participant in the CCHA postsea­son. 
Notre Dame was unbeaten in 
their last six games (4-0-2) 
entering Saturday's contest, and 
it appeared their Jate season 
surge would be enough to get 
them into the playoffs. 
But as the teams were skating 
off the ice, the score of the 
Bowling Green game was 
announced. ending Notre 
Dame's playoff hopes. 
"I don't know how to describe 
[the end of the season]." senior 
left wing Dan Carlson said. 
"Everything we worked for the 
entire year is done." 

.Undergraduate members of the gay, lesbian, and bisexual community are invited to apply for membership on the 
Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. 
Applications are now available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Standing Committee web site: 
http://www.nd.edu/-.,scglsn/ 
Applications are due by 5:00 p.m. on Friday, March 23, 2001, and can be submitted at the Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 
NBA 
Allen scores :23 in fourth for Bucks' win 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 

Ray Allen had 23 points and Sam Cassell scored 14 of his 20 points in the fourth quarter as the Milwaukee Bucks defeated the New Jersey Nets 107-100 Monday night before a sparse crowd. 
A snowstorm in the New York area kept the crowd to 3,216. During the first quar­ter, the Nets announced they could sit wherever they liked. 
The Bucks, with the second­best record in the Eastern Conference, blew a 17-point first-half lead but then scored the last six points of the third period and six of the first seven in the fourth to open an 83-75 lead. New Jersey never got closer than five after that. 
Rookie Kenyon Martin led the Nets with a triple-double of 18 points, 15 rebounds and 11 assists. Stephon Marbury had 18 of his 20 points in the second half and Lucious Harris added 17. 
Glenn Robinson scored 18 

for the Bucks. 
Lindsey Hunter opened the 

fourth period with a jumper. 
After Martin hit a free throw, 
Tim Thomas hit two foul shots 
and Allen added a turnaround 
from the baseline to put the 
Bucks in control. 
The Nets scored the first 

seven points of the game but 
Milwaukee reeled off the next 
10 and led throughout the first 
half. 
The Bucks took a 58-41 lead 

at halftime on Darvin Ham's 
3-point basket from the just 
beyond the half court stripe. 
Miami 87, Detroit 84 
Brian Grant scored 20 points and Dan Majerle made a 3-pointer in the final sec­onds as the Miami Heat over­came the loss of guard Eddie Jones to defeat the Detroit Pistons. 
The Heat won their third straight game and for the fifth time in six games, but it wasn't easy N or without casualties. 
Jones, the cornerstone of a blockbuster trade with the Hornets last summer, dislocat­ed his left shoulder in the sec­ond quarter and was taken off on a stretcher. His long-term prognosis won't be known until Tuesday. 
Majerle, who scored a sea­son-high 12 points, made a 3­pointer with the shot clock winding down and Miami clinging to an 82-81 lead with 
14.3 seconds left. The Pistons answered with a 3-pointer from Jerry Stackhouse with 
7.1 seconds left. 
Tim Hardaway hit a pair of free throws with 6.0 seconds left to give Miami an 87-84 lead. 
Stackhouse's shot at the 

buzzer. which would have 
counted for two points, 
rimmed out. 
The Heat completed a four­

game sweep of the season 
series, with two of the wins 
coming in overtime. It's 
Miami's first sweep of Detroit 
since 1996-97. 
Stackhouse scored 32 points 

for Detroit, although he also 
committed a season-high 11 
turnovers. 
Corliss Williamson added 17 for the Pistons, who have lost five of their last six. 
Utah 109, Atlanta 102 
Karl Malone scored 30 

points and John Stockton 
added 22 as the Utah Jazz 
beat Atlanta for their sixth 
straight win over the Hawks. 
After Toni Kukoc made a 3­

pointer to cut the Jazz's lead 
to three points with 2:05 
remaining, Malone fed Donyell 
Marshall for a dunk 20 sec­
onds later and then hit a 20­
foot jumper from the left wing 
that made it 107-100 with 
1:12 to go. 
Bouts 
continued from page 24 
Nevertheless, Macias was able to fight the kind of fight he wanted, moving in and jabbing very well. At times, it was all Hobbins could do to avoid a brawl. shuffling around the ring to avoid Macias, at one point even breaking into stride and running away. 
The frequent stoppages for bleeding probably worked to Hobbins's advantage, enabling him to rest and continue mov­ing. By the third round, howev­er, both fighters were too tired to either chase or dance away very much, and the two traded punches for most of the round. Overall, it was a very close fi.ght, but Hobbins likely earned the decision by winning the first two rounds. 
175 Pounds 
The All captain battle between Mark 'Tm So Pretty" Criniti and Rob "A.M.D.G." Joyce was much more tactical. Both fighters preferred to move in and out, and box rather than brawl.. Joyce did back Criniti into the ropes several times, but Criniti often was able to land his best combinations when he seemed trapped. 

"I was trying to pace myself, and save some energy for the third round," Criniti said. "Hob does a great job of moving you around the ring the whole fight, and I guess the way it worked, it wasn't planned, but it worked to my advantage." 
Neither fighter wound up in too much trouble, as they both looked to score points rather than knock each other out, but it was Criniti who landed more and came through with a unanimous decision. 
"Rob and I both wanted to get in: and out, look for open­ings, make it more of a boxing match," he said. "I was sur­prised [the decision] was unan­imous, I thought it could have been split either way." 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 6, 2001 
Sports journalists: pushing it for a reason 

I. like every other writer, usual­ly use this column to give my oh so wonderful opinions on the world of sport. 
Everything from artificial turf to !'ans. man. 
have we got opin­
ions and analysis to go with it. 
But today. I got into a reflective mood. and started thinking about us, thH people who cover tho nvenL'i.. 
And I 

think it's only fair to say that we. the sports reporters, sometimes get, how should I say it, irritating. 
Take our questions. for exam­ple. After thA men's basketball team lost 79-72 on Sunday against the Boyas. someone asked coach Mike Brey that since Troy Murphy gets so much attention from other teams, would he go with a differ­ent primary option on offense. 
lluh? What kind of answer do we expect to get? 
"Yeah. even though Troy's going to be an All-American for the sec­ond straight year. and is a finalist for both Big East and National Player of the Year, I don't think he can do much for us anymore." 
Dun't get me wrong: I think I probably hold sports journalism in higher esteem than most other people. lfl didn't, I wouldn't be hoping to devote my prolessional life to what is oftPn times a less than financially secure field. 
Sports are critically important to everyone who follows them. They're not only a great diversion but a great uni tier, events that even though the outcome of' the game might not mean much in the big scheme of things. being a part of them means something infinite­ly morn. 
Being able to be a part of that feeling, and hopefully making it come to life even more for those who were or weren't there, is a charge I'm privileged to have. 
But the very nature of what we do involves getting in other peo­ple's business. We want your thoughts both about hitting the thrc!l at the horn. and turning the ball over on the last play of the game. 
And not just once, but once for every crew and reporter whose there, because we're all compet­ing with each other to get the best story, tlm exclusive interview. 

Consequently, we'll all ask what you need to do to improve, to win the big game. to fix your problems on defense. 
The answers to those questions. whether they be a witty anecdote, a straightforward assessment, or simply a "No comment" are IL big part ofwhat we depend on to do our jobs well. 
If we have to catch you right before the game or while you're trying to go practice. we often still expect you to be available to give us a sound bite or a headline quote. 
The reality is that sports would go on ifwc weren't there to cover all its moves. Sure, it probably wouldn't be nearly as huge, pro­fessional players would have to subtract a few "O's" out of their contracts, and getting that Division I scholarship wouldn't be as prestigious as it is now. 

People would still be playing just because they wanted to play. 
But lake away sports, and the sports reporters. on the other hand, become obsolete. 
And not only do those reporters become obsolete, but they also act lost. As one of my mentors has told me, for all the deadlines. pressure, competition and finan­cial instability, you have to won­der why anyone would ever want to be a sports journalist. 
The answer he gave. fittingly enough. paralleled experience from the sporting world, namely that of coaches. 
He said that like the coaches who have had numerous stress induced health problems and look like they're living dog years, seven for every one, they still can't give it up. 
It's something in their blood that is who they are. And for that same reason, we write and broadcast sports. 
Not always well or in the right way. We speculate on things we don't have firsthand knowledge of. We get under people's skins, sometimes justly and other times not so. 
After Sunday's game, whfln asked if the team was in trouble, Murphy said, with some notice­able irritation: "l don't think we've lost an edge at all," and sarcasti­cally asked if the reporter thought they had lost it. 
Two people. one whose job is to perform on the floor and the other's to talk about that perfor­mance. 
One strange thing. there in all of our blood that no one can explain. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cubs' Wood allows five runs 
A.s.ociatcd P rcss 

When Kerry Wood pitches this spring, every errant fastball won't cause panic. even if it does cost some runs. 
Two years after recon­structive elbow surgery, the 1998 NL Rookie of the Year made his spring debut Monday, allowing five runs as the Chicago Cubs lost to the Seattle Mariners 6-1. 
'Tm just happy to get through it. I'm sure the sec­ond time around will be bet­ter," said the 23-year-old right-hander, who pitched two scoreless innings before a five-run third. 
Last spring, questions about pitch counts. pitch selection and his timetable to return to the majors dom­inated every outing. Not this spring. 
"Forget the numbers. He threw the ball well." Cubs manager Don Baylor said after the game at Peoria, Ariz. "He looks a lot better than at a year ago this time. Believe me, he can build on this." 
Yankees 10, Braves 5 . 

At Tampa, Fla., Mike Mussina pitched his first game for the New York Yankees, allowing two runs in two innings of a win over the Atlanta Braves. 
Mussina, who left Baltimore for an $88.5 mil­lion, six-year deal with New York, entered in the third inning -he's never made a relief appearance during the regular season. He gave up two hits, and one of the runs was unearned. 
He surprised Jorge Posada by throwing a sidearm curve, prompting the catch­er to remark, "l didn't know he had that." 
"I was just looking for­ward to getting out there again," Mussina said. "It wasn't like the first day of putting on the uniform. I've been putting it on for three 
weeks." 

Sid Fernandez made his first game appearance since 1997, pitching a perfect fifth inning. 
"I was a little nervous. but I calmed down once I got out there." the 38-year-old left­hander said. "It felt good to be on the mound again. To me, it's just like I'm settling into another spring train­ing." 
Rangers 4, Pirates 1; Rangers 13, Pirates 2 

At Port Charlotte, Fla., Alex Rodriguez, Andres Galarraga and Ken Caminiti -free agents signed by Texas during the offseason -each hit three-run homers in the second game of a doubleheader sweep. 
Blue Jays 4, Tigers 3 

At Lakeland, Fla., Homer Bush hit a go-ahead solo homer in the ninth against Todd Jones. Toronto's Brian Simmons made a case that he should be the team's fourth outfielder by going 2­fo r-3 with three stolen bases. 
Astros 5, Royals 5 

At Kissimmee, Fla.• Craig Biggio. returning from sea­son-ending knee surgery. got his first two hits of the spring. scored two runs and drove in another. Jose Lima, who gave up 48 home runs in 2000, allowed three runs in the first inning, two on a home run by Jermaine Dye. 
Reds 7, Twins 6 

At Sarasota, Fla.. Osvaldo Fernandez retired the first nine batters he faced before giving up a hit and a walk in the fourth. 
He has not been scored on in two outings spanning seven innings. 
Marlins 5, Indians 4 
At Melbourne, Fla., Andy Fox tripled home the win­ning run in the ninth inning. Cleveland's Roberto Alomar and Juan Gonzalez hit solo homers. their first this spring. 
Red Sox 17, Expos 8 
At Jupiter, Fla .. Frank Castillo allowed two hits in three scoreless innings. Morgan Burkhart went 4­for-4 with a home run, dou­ble and two RBIs, and Wilton Veras and Aaron Capista also homered for the Red Sox, helped by a 30­mph wind to right. Milton Bradley. Fernando Tatis and Mark Smith homered for the 
Expos. 
Orioles 4, Mets 3 
At Port St. Lucie, Fla., Mets pitcher Rick Reed hurt his side while working out before the game, right field­er Timo Perez injured a shin making a sliding catch and third baseman Jim Leyritz felt pain in his surgically repaired right shoulder. Orioles starter Pat Hentgen allowed two hits in three shutout innings. 
Brewers 10, Diamondbacks 9 
At Tucson. Ariz., Randy Johnson allowed four runs in two innings, gave up five hits and walked two, both with the bases loaded. Mike Coolbaugh hit his second home run of the spring and drove in four runs for Milwaukee. 




DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS A 10 BEDROOM HOUSE -4 BATH, 3 KITCHENS 
-BIG COMMON ROOM WITH BAR  
-VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS  
-NEAR OTHER STUDENT HOUSES  
-SECURITY SYSTEM  
-WASHER & DRYER  CONTACT KRAMER  
-HEAT INCLUDED IN RENT  (219) 298-9673 CELL PHONE  
(219) 234-2436 OFFICE  
(219) 674-2572 VOICE MAIL  

ALSO LEASING HOUSES FOR 2002-2003 SCHOOL YEAR 
Friday, January 19, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Preview 
continued from page 24 
conference.  
Connecticut  coach  Geno  
Auriemma  disagreed  with  
McGraw's comments.  

"Muffet stays up at night think­ing of things like that to say," Auriemma said on Thursday. "God bless her. She's come up with a great idea, 'the press is saying they're the underdog.' I don't know what that means." 
The Huskies will play without All-American forward Svetlana Abrosimova tonight. Abrosimova hurt her left foot during the 92­88 loss to Tennessee on Feb. l. She underwent surgery on Feb. 7 to repair a torn ligament and will miss the rest of the season. 
Sue Bird. Connecticut's start­ing point guard, is questionable tonight. The first-team All Big East performer suffered a back injury during Sunday's quarterfi­nal win over Boston College and missed Monday's game against Hutgers. As of last night. it was uncertain whether Bird would play in the final. 
Even with Abrosimova and Bird sidelined, the Huskies pre­sent a formidable challenge. Forward Swin Cash is the only Connecticut player to rank among the conference's top 20 in either scoring (12.1 points per game -16th in the Big East) or rebounding (7 .6 rebounds per game -fifth in the Big East) but the Huskies still lead the Big East in scoring. scoring defense, field goal percentage and field goal percentage defense. 
After lhe shocking loss to Notre Dame, in which the Huskies shot a season-low 36.7 percent from the field, Connecticut has played better than ever, compiling a 14-1 record. They have outscored their opponents by an average of 
38.1 points per game in the 14 victories. 
"When we lost to Notre Dame, they were putting up billboards 'If you want to beat Connecticut, play zone,"' Auriemrna said on Thursday. "We've made a lot of progress since then." 
For McGraw, tonight's game is important, but she refuses to refer to the first victory over Connecticut as a fluke. The Irish played their best game in two months in Sunday night's 56­point win against Georgetown and showed on Monday that they can be successful even when Ruth Riley struggles. 
"I think we've already proved that we're a great team," McGraw said. "I think win or lose, both teams are No. 1 seeds (in the NCAA tournament). I don't think there's anything more that we need to prove." 
For the first time since the 1992 Big East final, when top seeded Miami beat Connecticut 56-47, the Huskies will wear the blue road uniforms tonight. 
Because the Irish are ranked higher, they will don their gold home uniforms. 
What effect will this have on the Huskies? 
"Kids are weird today," Auriemma said. "These are kids that used to play in T-shirts and shorts outside because they liked to play basketball. Now they're going to get all whacked out about what uniform they're wearing? To me, if you're fortu­nate enough to play for the Big East Championship on Tuesday night, if they make you sit in sec­tion 203 and run down the steps when you get subbed in, then you're happy. The goal is to win the Big East Championship, any­thing other than that is nonsense that doesn't belong in any dis­cussion or any thought." 
How about the weather? 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Riley earns conference: honors 
Observer Staff Report 
STORRS, Conn. 
Ruth Riley carried home more hardware than a thief leaving Home Depot at Friday night's Big East Awards Banquet. 
Capping off a dominant senior campaign which saw her lead the conference in both scoring and field goal percent­age, Riley was unanimously voted Big East Player of the Year. 
"If you look at all the compe­tition in the Big East and see all the players, at the guard and forward positions. that's a great honor," Riley said. 
She also took home the con­ference Defensive Player of the Year plaque for the third straight season. Riley led the Big East in blocked shots per game with 3.6 this season. She ends her regular season career with 193 blocked shots in con­ference games, the second highest career mark in the his­tory of the Big East. 
A star both on the court and in the classroom, Riley was awarded for her all-around dedication as she took home the 2000-01 Big East Female Scholar-Athlete of the Year award. 
She also earned national acclaim, being named the Women's Basketball Scholar­Athlete of the Year. Riley will receive $4,000 to apply towards graduate studies. 
"I was kind of surprised," Riley said. "I wasn't thinking 

Please Recycle The Observer. 
' 

the f l'JJ Q;;j;ng experience presenting the latest fashion trends, budgeting tips and cutting edge ideas from Michiana's premiere vendors. 

C~tmJiy center 
I 

\f\Je_ ·-1nas 
produced by ProShow and Celebrated Events '~/ 
a Sandals resort honeyrJ[xf;)~~Ef<J t9 Wir7 
Drawmg will be held at 4:30 m the Vendor Pavilion. Must be present to win. g 
General admission VIP ticket holders 
12:00pm -5:00pm 10:00am -5:00pm 

$5 per person at the door $10 per person (advance purchase only) 

Seminars and panel discussions 

limited to 200 guests 
with the professionals 

Guests will have exclus,ve time with vendors Main fashion show at 3:00pm from 10am to noon 
Private fashion show from 11am to noon 
contact 

Jessica Saros at ProShow, 271-7 469 for VIP tickets and more information 
"If you look at all the competition in the Big East and see all the players, at the guard and forward positions, that's a great honor." 
Ruth Riley Irish basketball player 

too much about what awards they were handing out. It was nice with all the work you do throughout the season." 
. 
Riley is joined in the All-Big East first team by teammate Niele Ivey. The fifth-year point guard made the first-team for the first time in her career. 

. 
Senior Kelley Siemon earned the Most Improved Player of the year from conference coaches. After coming off the bench last season, Siemon fin­ished the 2000-2001 campaign with an average of 10.7 points per game and 7.1 rebounds per contest, despite playing nearly half the season with a fractured left hand. 


"I think that I definitely have probably improved but I don't think that it was really a thing that I did consciously or physi­cally," Siemon said. "I thought about this year a lot mentally. I thought, 'It's a new year, I'm not going to hold back, I'm going to do what I need to do."' 
. Guard Alicia Ratay was named to the All-Big East third team, while Siemon earned Honorable Mention. 
8-ball 
continued from page 24 
lane, I think we're going to play well defensively." 
The game was tied at six points each five minutes into the game before the Irish (28-1, 15­
1) got going. Notre Dame went on a 17-0 run, holding the Hokies (21-8, 11-5) scoreless for 11 straight minutes. 
Senior forward Tere Williams, who finished with 15 points to lead the Hokies, took some of the blame for the Virginia Tech offensive shutdown. 
"We were getting good looks, I just couldn't finish," Williams said. "I had good looks and even on Ruth I made a move on her and got an open look to the bas­ket but I couldn't finish the shot." 
Riley ignored her offensive struggles to key the defensive stand. The three-time Big East Defensive Player of the Year blocked three shots and pulled down eight rebounds in the opening half. McGraw contends that the team's three-two zone defense is more successful with players like Riley and Barksdale on the floor. 
"The zone is so much more effective when you have the shot blocker in the middle," McGraw said. 
Siemon and freshman Jeneka Joyce each scored six points dur­ing the run. Joyce hit two 3­pointers, while on three occa­sions Siemon drove to the left and created uncontested lay­ups. 
The Irish built a 36-17 half­time lead with zero first-half points from Riley and only two tallies from point guard Ivey. Ivey did not score her first points until hitting two free throws with 
. 
Head coach Muffet McGraw took home the Big East Coach of the Year award. The head coach won her 400th career game during the season, a sea­son in which she took the Irish to the No. 1 spot in the polls for the first time ever. 

.Storrs 
is expecting anywhere from one to two feet of snow by this morning. It is still unclear 


' 

as to what tournament officials ' will do if Mother Nature bears I I down on the area. I I 
Thie team bus was escorted I by police from Gampel Pavilion I I to their hotel 20 miles west. I IInterstate 84 was limited to I 
I

only one lane after the severe I snowfall. I I With the possibility of the I tournament being prolonged on I 
'I

the horizon, McGraw is taking a I few precautions. I I 
"We don't have a contingency I plan right now except maybe I I go gBt some food and keep it in I I 
I

the hotel.just in case," McGraw 
I

said. l Siemon hasn't even thought ' of the surroundings. 'Tm not even really thinking about it [the weather]," Siemon 
i said. "We play basketball, so l let's go play. Put me on the 
l

court." 
. Irish backup guard Monique 
l Hernandez sprained the MCL in I• her left knee during practice I Thursday. She is expected to miss no more than two weeks and will likely return for the NCAA. tournament. 
Assistant Sports Editors Tim Casey and Noah Amstadter compiled this report. 
55.7 seconds remaining in the first half. 
Sophomore guard Alicia Ratay scored eight points in the open­ing half. 
"I thought Alicia Ratay really sealed the game for us in the first half," McGraw said. "She did a greatjob offensively." 
Ratay finished with 14 for the game, tied with Siemon for the team high. 
Forward Ericka Haney fin­ished with 12 points and six rebounds. 
As the Hokies concentrated on keeping the ball away from Riley and the 3-point attack of Ivey and ltatay, Haney and Siemon were often left open paths to the basket. 
"Eri,cka and I did a pretty good job today of attacking those areas where they left us open." Siemon said. "I didn't hit any outside jumpers." 
Despite the lopsided margin, Notre Dame shot only 36.4 per­cent from the field, their lowest mark this season. 
"Virginia Tech did a great job defensively," McGraw said. "That's the best defense we've faced" 
Virginia Tech ends their first season in Big East play hoping for a berth in the NCAA tourna­ment. The Hokies finished fourth in the Big East, losing only one conference game to a team not ranked above them. 
"I don't know if you can get from what we got this season from anywhere else in the coun­try," Williams said. "We had four top 25 teams at one time and we competed." 
Barring a weather delay. the Irish will take on Connecticut in the Big East Championship game tonight at 7:30 p.m. The battle between the No. 1 and No. 2 teams in the country will be tele­vised on ESPN2. 
r---------------------------·-------------~-----------­
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 6, 200 I 
Belles get psyched for spring season 

It's true it might be diflicult to find a tonnis court under the 
I 
I snow that fell on Monday. It's I I true-that it's so cold outside u I softball might freeze to your
' 
I palm if you' tritid to
' 
I' throw ii. I It's true
'I 
I that the ice outside
'I 
makes it 
I 
' 
I detrimental I to move at' more than
'I 
I a snail's'I pace. But 
I 
I -believe it 'I or not­I it's spring I' sports sea­
I 
I son. ' J\s most
I I 
I of us head home or to thl:l I warmer reaches of Florida or
I 
I Cancun for a week of relaxation, ' our athletic teams am heading
( 
for a week of competition. When 
I 
they get back to Saint Mary's they'll be ready to play, but are you ready to watch? 
Since it's the b1iginning of another season, it's time to remind all of you sporting fans on both sides of Route 31 that there is athletic competition worth watching over here at Saint Mary's. 
That competition starts soon. The softball team, weather per­mitting, will open its season on Wednesday and the track and tennis teams will open up their outdoor seasons after spring break. 
So, why should you come out and watch athletics this season? 
For one, the Saint Mary's ten­nis team tied for second in the MIAA last year. with two confer­ence champion in No. 4 singles and No. 2 doubles. The Belles will be returning to the court this season anxious for another shot at a No. 1 finish in the MIM. A fast paced, action packed tennis match on a beau­tiful South Bend afternoon, if such an afternoon exists. is the perfect way to spend some freo time. 

But there's more than that. Nothing motivates quite like fe,1r of non-existence, and this sea­son the track team is going to be running for its life -literally. With the knowledge that it will be dissolved next year, the Saint Mary's track team will be look•• ing to smoke its competition. During the indoor season, team members have already broken several school records and par­ticipation is tripled. 
And softball is back with a new look. The Belles recently experienced a coaching switch and now, under the leadership ofJohn Kovach and Don Miller, they are out to improve MIM rankings. 
So, come out and show some support for the Belles. Give yollr classmates the opportunity to show you they can get an A 0111 the court as well as in the class, room. Give an afternoon to cheer for your hallmate or even your roommate. Take an after­noon off to support your school. 
That goes for all of you Irish fans too. Div. Ill competition may not rate with Div. I compe­tition as far as money goes. but it can hold its own when it comes to the excitement or a close match. Win or lose, it's worth a trip to the softball field or the tennis court for an after­noon of entertainment. 
So, while you're relaxing dur­ing spring break and planning . out the rest of your semester. plan in some time to cheer on spring athletics. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Atlanta Braves lay off 10 after merger 
Associated Press 
KISSIMMEE. Fla. 

Forced to cut costs after the AOL Time Warner merger. the Atlanta Braves laid off 10 employees in their scouting and player development depart­ments. 
Jim Martz. a scout for more Lhan 31 years, was among those losing his job. He had worked with the Braves since 1995 and was responsible for minor leagues in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio and Michigan. 
"While on assignment for spring training in Florida, I was suddenly and without warning terminated from my profession in tho game l love," Martz said in a. statement. "Naturally, it was a tremendous shock and has been a traumatic experi­ence for both me and my fami­ly." 
The Braves also eliminated several part-time positions 
under orders from their newly expanded parent company. 
General manager John Schuerholz insisted that his team. which has won nine straight division titles, wouldn't be hurt by the layoffs. But the moves were a surprise. given the team reported for spring training almost three weeks ago. 
"The bad thing is the timing," Schuerholz said. "If it happens in the middle of the winter, that would have been normal, stan­dard baseball business without any unusual aspects. That's why we all feel bad." 
The Braves. began notifying employees of the layoffs last week. Another scout losing his job was John Hagemann, who covered high school players in Connecticut, New York and New Jersey. 
Schuerholz said some coach­es also were laid off for short­season and rookie-le,igue teams. 
NHL 

Recchi sc:ores two in Flyers' win 
Associated Press 
Mark Recchi scored twi,ce, including the go-ahead goal on a power play with 3:17 loft in the third period. to rally the Philadelphia Flyers to a 6­4 victory over the Boston Bruins on Monday night. 
The win moved the Flyers into first place in the Atlantic Division, one point ahead of the New Jersey Devils. 
Eric Desjardins, Dan McGillis, Ruslan Fedotcr.ko and Keith Primeau also scored for the Flyers, who are 9-1-1 in their last 11 home games. 
Recchi, who also had two assists. scored on a one-timer from the right circle after tak­ing a pass from Desjardins. Primeau added an empty-net­ter with nine seconds left. 
Desjardins scored a short­handed goal at 5:57 of the third period to tie it 4-4. He scored at the end of a 3-on-2 break with Keith Primeau ,:i.nd Recchi. Desjardins' initial shot sailed high over the net, but bounced hard off the boards right back to his stick and he backhanded it past goaltender John Grahame. 
Boston's Joe Thornton scored two power-play goals within 56 seconds early in the second to put the Bruins ahead 4-3. 
Brian Rolston and Jason Allison also scored for the Bruins, who missed a cha.nee to move ahead of Carolina in the battle for the finnl playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. 
Boston dropped its s:,xth straight road game. Philadelphia took a 3-2 lead 
after a wild first period when five goals were scored in an 
8:23 span and the Flyers out­shot the Bruins 16-7. 
McGillis started the scoring with his career-high 12th goal at 9:11 of the period, firing a slap shot through a screen from outside tho right circle. 
Rolston redirected a shot 
1:20 later to tie it. 
McGillis set up Recchi's first goal to put Philadelphia ahead 2-1 at 13:31. He dumped the puck into the crease, and Recchi deflected past Grahame, who had won his previous three starts. 
Allison pulled Boston even at 2-2 with his 300th NHL point at 17:08, scoring on a give-and-go with Sergei Samsonov. But Fedotenko scored 26 seconds later. 
Thornton scored his power­play goals early in the second period. His first came on a back-hander from the slot at 
1:29. He scored again at 2:25. 
Flyers goalie Roman Cechmanek, who has started every home game since Bill Barber was appointed Flyers coach on Dec. 10, extended his home won-loss record to 13-2-2. It was his first career start against the Bruins. 
Islanders 5, Rangers 2 
Jason Blake had a goal and an assist and Mariusz Czerkawski had a goal and two assists as the New York Islanders made Lorne Henning a winner in his latest debut as coach in a victory over the New York Rangers. 
The Islanders, who snapped a four-game losing streak. built a 4-0 lead, including goals by Blake. Bill Muckalt and Juraj Kolnik within 85 seconds of the second period. John Vanbiesbrouck made 40 saves. 
Kenny Jonsson closed the Islanders' scoring with a breakaway goal with 1 :04 left. Jonsson tripped after the goal and slid into the boards, knocking him woozy. 
Brian Leetch and Sandy McCarthy scored for the Rangers. who lost for the sixth time in seven games. 
Henning. a longtime assis­tant, took over as interim coach after Butch Goring was fired Sunday. The move came a day after a 6-0 loss to Tampa Bay that dropped the Islanders into last place in the NHL. 
It is Henning's second stint as the head man of the Islanders, who with 44 points lead the Lightning by one point at the bottom of the standings. Ile was also their coach during the lockout sea­son of 1994-95. 
The Islanders, outshot 42­34, are unbeaten in four trips to Madison Square Garden (3­0-1 }. The Rangers fell farther out of the playoff race, trail­ing the final berth by 12 points with only 16 games left. 
Blake started the Islanders· three-goal spurt with a short­handed breakaway at 5 :17. He skated around rookie goalie Vitali Yeremeyev to score his fourth goal. 
Muckalt made it 3-0 just 
1:10 later. He carried in front of the net, and the puck slid through the crease to Dave Scatchard, who got it back to Muckalt for his ninth goal. Kolnik made it 4-0 at 6:42. 

1111IllSIIIIJ11 t11BJ! 
Your parents brought you up and made a Notre Dame education possible. Don't you owe them this? 
Senio~ "Thank You" Plaques 
• 
Two Imes ofpersonalization 

• 
Only $ 35.00, this price will increase after break 

• 
Discounts offered on additional plaques 

• 
Look for us in the College of Business atrium: 


• Tuesday March 6th 11-1pm • Wednesday March ?1h 11-lpm 

---•---~-<:~~ for us Wednesdays in Alumni/Senior Bar! Please pick a line ofpersonalization: Name: (As i;will appear 0;;~;;~~~:~)------­
. 
"Thank you Mom and Dad" 

. 
"Thank you, Morn" School address:

. 
"Thank you, Dad'' City: 

. 
"Thank you, [ Oth,~r] ($5 charge. Must> 22 characters .including spaces) State: 


Zip: Phone; 
This ~~ar'~ ~uotation: "Education is not the filling ofa bucket, it is the Jightin of a fire. -Wilham Butler Yeats g . . Thank you [your choice] for providing the spark. For more mformat1on check out: http://www.nd.edu/~mgtclub 
Please make checks payable to the ND Management Club, 200 Lafortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Tuesday, March 6, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S TRACK 
Seniors break school relay record at last meet 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Spons Writer 
When Kymia Love, Kristen Dodd, Ayesha Boyd and Liz Grow stepped onto the track for the last event at the Alex Wilson Invitational last Saturday, they didn't expect to break their old school record by five seconds. 
But that's exactly what they did. 
Pushed by a talented Ball State relay, the 4x400 meter relay team cruised to a school-record 
3:40.21 to win that event at the Alex Wilson Invitational. But even though they ran their fastest time of the season, it wasn't fast enough to qualify for next week's indoor national championships. 
"They usually only take the top 12 relays," said Irish sprints coach John Millar. "They have a pretty slim chance of getting in." 
Saturday's performance ranks the Irish relay at No. 17 in the nation. Their time, when con­verted, was 3:38.96. The final relay accepted had a 3:38.02. 
Another Irish athlete who was sitting on the bubble is sopho­more Tameisha King. She jumped a season-best 20 feet, 
3.5 inches last weekend, ranking her 22nd in the nation. But it wasn't good enough to qualify for nationals. 
"They only take the top 16," Millar said. "Making the NCAA championships is one of the hardest things to do. You're usu­ally. competing against Olympic athletes. It's just an accomplish­ment to make the standard." 
King, who earned All­American status in the long jump outdoors last year, also 
won the 60-meler hurdles Saturday with a time of 8.58. 
The only female Irish athlete who earned a spot in next week's national championships is Grow. The junior has the sev­enth best time in the nation in 400 meters, a 53.3 second effort that she ran at the Meyo Invitational a month ago against Canadian Foye Williams. 
Saturday, she won the 200­meter dash in 24 seconds, an NCAA provisional qualifying time. Millar believes running a strong 200 gives Grow an added boost heading into this week of training. 
"I think thal 200 gave her extra confidence heading into the meet," he said. 
While Grow will be the only Irish athlete competing at the NCAA championships later this week, several other Irish ath­letes had strong performances at the Alex Wilson Invitationa.1, a meet held lo prepare athletes for thP. outdoor season. 
In the high jump, the past met the present as former Notre Dame standout Jenny Engelhart beat freshman Jennifer Kearny by two inches. Engelhart, who placed seventh at the 2000 U.S. Olympic Trials, jumped 5-7 .75. 
Meanwhile, in the mile, fresh­man Megan Johnson took sec­ond place in 4:56.41, one of her fastest times of her young colle­giate career. 
Grow will be competing at the Indoor NCAA Championships later this week in Arkansas. After the national champi­onships, the Irish will have sev­eral weeks to prepare for their first outdoor meet of the season, the Arizona State Invitational, on March 30. 


Announcing the Year 2001
:f~\~J?=''~FJ 
) Annual Awards ofthe
'\:i~'-.\ 
.P.Jt); 

[:~ ;.--·";, Albert Ravarino Italian ,LC t ~ Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2001 annual competition for trav­el in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000 and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have complete at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study ofltalian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miama University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1) an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame 
2) a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals 
3) a description of the research project or the program they intent to follow 
4) a budget indicating the costs involved 
5) the names of nvo references 
Application Deadline: Friday, March 21st, 2001 Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University ofNotre Dame 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Beard scores 18 to lead Duke to ,rictory 
Associated Press 
Freshman Alana Beard scored 18 points to lead No. 5 Duke to its second consecutive ACC tournament title with a 57-45 victory over No. 18 North Carolina State on Monday night. 
Michele Matyasovsky added 14 points for the Blue Devils (28-3), who improved to 8-0 in Greensboro Coliseum. 
The game was a matchup of the ACC's top offense in Duke and the top defense in N. C. State. 
Despite the final score, the Wolfpack (20-10) actually played up to its normal level of defense and made Duke the 18th team this season to fail to 
score  at  least  60  points  
against them.  
They also did a  good job on  
Duke  guard  Georgia  

Schweitzer, the Blue Devils' offensive spark. 
Schweitzer, who scored a 
combined 52 points in the first two games of the tournament, was held to nine against the Wolfpack. Her shots were lim­ited -she attempted only 10 -and the Wolfpack never let her find any sort of rhythm 
But North Carolina State couldn't find an offense to match its defense. The Wolfpack shot just 25 percent, and scored only ,wo field goals in the first 10 minutes of the second half -when Duke built a 19-point lead. 
The Wolfpack, who played in the championship game for the first time since 1991, couldn't overcome a disap­pointing game from center Carisse Moody. 
Moody, who averages 15 points and seven rebounds, was held! to just nine points while shooting 4-for-15. She had eight rebounds, but Duke won in that category 43-40. 
Talisha Scates led N.C. State with 11 points. 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 6, 2001 MEN'S TRACK 
Shay fails to quali~f for NCAA challlpionships in 3,000 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sp,ms Writer 
Ryan Shay came up a second short. 
After taking the fall cross­country season off to recover from a summer of intense train­ing in preparation for the 2000 
U.S. Olympic Trials. Shay will be competing in only one event at this week·s NCAA national championships after narrowly missing a berth in the 3,000­meter run at last weekend's Alex Wilson Invitational. 
The senior All-American had already secured a spot in the indoor championships following his school-record 5,000-meter run at tho Meyo Invitational. His 
13:52.66 effort earlier this sea­son earned him an automatic bid for this week's championships and ranked him fourth in the nation in that event. 
But Shay was still chasing a bid in the 3,000 meters. He was close to the necessary time and had one last chance to qualify Saturday. 
Shay ran au 8:05.44. good enough for third place and about five seconds under the provision­al time he needed to meet. That time ranked him 20th in that event nationally. 
It wasn't high enough. 
The final time taken in the 3,000 was 8:04.44, just one sec­ond faster than Shay's effort on Saturday. However, the senior will be still be competing in the 5,000-mcter run Friday night. 
"Ile'll defmitcly be runuing in the 5,000, and he's seeded fourth," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. 
While no Notre Dame male earned an NCM berth at the Alex Wilson Invitational, many turned in strong performances in a meet Irish coaches used as preparation for the outdoor sea­son.
•·we really wanted to focus on getiing ready for the outdoor season," said Irish coach John Millar. ''That's what thii; meet was all about." 
Millar was especially pleased with the performances of his 400 runners. 
Freshman James Bracken led the horde of Irish runners by fin­ishing in a tie for fourth place with Eastern Illinois' Jerrod Macklin. He ran a 48.18, and Millar feels the talented fresh­man can go even faster. 
'Tm really excited to see what James can do for us outdoors," he said. 
Many of the Notre Dame ath­1etes in the 400-meter dash broke several significant person­al barriers. Mike Mansow~ ran a personal-best 48.8 -the first time the junior broke the 49-sec­ond barrier. Meanwhile, a pair of freshmen ran under the 50­second barrier. Napoleon Suarez finished 11th in 49.56, while Nick Saracco was right behind him with a 49.8. 
"Our 400 guys had a great weekend," Millar said. "I think it's important that they've gotten past some of those mental barri­ers right before the outdooir sea­son." 
Notre Dame got another strong mile performance from Patrick Conway. who ran a per­sonal-best 4:06.89, good enough for third place. Teammate Sean Zanderson finished 12th in that event with a 4:12.51. 
As they have all season long, the Irish did an outstanding job in the field events. In the high jump. Big East champion Andrew Cooper won the event with a jump of 6 feet, 8.75 inch­es. 
Long jumper Tom Gilbert won the long jump with a leap of 22­
11.75. Gilbert, who also took third in the 200 and sixth .ln the 60, led a group of four Notre Dame long jumpers. No other athletes outside of Notre Dame competed in the event. 
In the 35-pound weight throw, the Irish placed second through sixth. Sophomore Brian Thornberg led the Irish by throwing 51-8.5. 
Sprinter Travis Davey also had a solid day. The senior placed third in the 60 with a time of 
7.00 and took fifth in th,r~ 200 with a 22.01. 
With the exception of Shay, who will compete this we,ekend at the NCAA Indoor National Championships, the Notre Dame track and field team will have three weeks off before they trav­el to Arizona State for theiJ" first outdoor meet of 2001 on March 30. 




LONDON 

SUMMER 2t>02 
Four and a half"',eeks for six ho•urs of academic credit (May 15 -.Junie 16 > 
INFO~rATI01'rlt,fEETING 
1

W ednesday~ I\,:i:arch 7 Thursday, IVl[arch 8 7:00 Pl\'1: 
LOCATI<:>N: ROO:M 131 DEBARTOLO 
(Those inieresied in Su,n,ner ~?003 are also inviied) 
Or call 1.-5203 (IntEirna1:ional Studies O·ffice) :f'or an application and pro ram in:f'ormad.on
-------------------------------' 

Tuesday, March 6, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 

-----~-----------~------------------------------~------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
THE WEATHER EXPLAINED...

r ) 
Fox TROT 
I SEE THAT OH? ANOTHER DoT-CoM WHAT'S 
TOM KEELEY 

THE WEATHER COMMITTEE FDA SOUTH BEND IS GOING ON VACATION STARTING IN MAACH. Will ANOTHER DEPARTMENT PLEASE COVBl FOR THEM? ANY VOLUNTEERS? 
A BAD 8US1NESS PLAN? LOUSY MANAGEMENT? 
BILLAMEND 
YOUR FATHER IS THIS WHY YOU JUST BOUGHT (;,AVE ME ALL 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WtlRSE 
WHATELY 

So who.t Me. !!ov r 1 "1 jV5-\ ';\OlR~ to do,n~ for 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
A S S T 
M U C H 
E S A U D BALD i-,,.+.,....,e+..+.­
A N ...,._-,-+,,,+,­



Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
63 Was in the hole 64 Disrobe 65 Writer Joyce 
Carol 66 Means 1ustiliers 67 "Check this out!" 68 Exxon 
alternative 
DOWN 
1 It opens in a public square in Seville 
2 Forsyth's "The File" 3 Friars Club 
events 4 Mail order abbr 5 Edwardian or 
Victorian 6 Gillian's role on 
"The X-Fiies" 7 An 88, e.g. 8 Child's wish for 
Christmas 9 Biol. or chem. 10 Whittier poem " Well" 
Punle by tuncy Salomon 
11 Dancer's 34 Makeshift
partners 35 Artist Matisse
12 Beethoven's Ninth is in one 37 Queen topper 13 Give in to gravity 38 Where you're from
18 _Lingus 39 Having a
19 At a feverish pace pressing need? 
40 What's what in Spain 24 Hangout 

26 Sealskin wearer, maybe 41 Car wash option 
28 Pa Clampett 45 What many brothers are also
30 The Beatles' "And ILove _. 47 Must 31 Bean on the 48 "I'll be right screen there!" 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip.______ 

49 States as fact 57 Baby blues 

52 Russian space 58 Kentucky Derby station prospect 60 A Stooge kitchen foil 61 Across the street from: Abbr. 
53 Big name in 
55 Mount Olympus dwellers 62 Stage hog 
Answers to any three dues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (95i: per minute). 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, MARCH 6, 2001 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sha.quille O'Neal, Kiri Te I<anawa, !lob Reiner, Ed McMahon, Gabriel Gru:cia Mar· quez, D.L. Hughley, Kiki Dee 
Happy Birthday: It's time to turn on the power and move full tilt, but watch out for obstacles along the way. You can get things done, but will pay a price. Be sure you know exactly what you want before you begin. You will not be able to stop midway and change your mind without los­ing ground. Precision, patience and practicality will be required this year. Your numbers: 18, 24, 31, 34, 38, 39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): If 
you've taken on too much as 
usual, you will find yourse!f in a 
tight spot. You had better sit 
down and decide what your pri­
orities are before you disappoint 
someone you love. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Friends and relatives will be able 
to give you sound advice if you 
open up about your personal 
concerns. Travel will bring you in 
contact with interesting and 
intriguing new people. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Your energy is high and you're 
geared up to get ahead at work. 
Promote your ideas and don't be 
afraid to talk to your boss about 
your career direction. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 221: 
Don't let your mood swings take 
over. Someone you care about 
may back off you if you can't 
control your emotions. Be pre­
pared. to make personal changes 
ff it's required. 000 
· LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Deal• 
ing with government agencies 
or authority figures will prove 
to be frustrating. Try to con­
centrate on projects for your liv­
ing quarters or on innovative 

Birthday Baby: Dashing, daring and dramatic are what you are all about. You have the charisma to melt hearts and will dazzle everyone with your astute and intellectual wit. You are always looking for something to do. · 
~eed advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, ~genialast.com, astromate.com.) ·fO 2001 Univeisal Press Syndiate 
EUGENIA LAST 

financial investments. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will enhance your reputation if you bend over backward to help someone in need. You are good at finding solutions to other people's problems. You will meet new friends if you go out 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22); Don't be drawn into a question­abl,e plan at work. Gossip will only result in making-you look bad. You must not take sides. Emotional upset will result in minor ailments. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 

Opportunities to meet new frfrnds or lovers will unfold if you attend seminars, conven­tions or lectures. Your involve­ment in open discussions will bring you notoriety. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov: 22-Dec. 21): 

Don't be talked into spending too 
mtetch on entertainment or dubi­
ous get-rich-quick schemes. It is 
better to give your time, not your 
cash when dealing with children 
or friends. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): 

Your lover will be uncertain 
ab,:,ut yom relationship. Try to 
understand. You may want to 
give him or her more space until 
tlm uncertainty is resolved. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Look into making those career 
chmges you've been contemplat­
ing. You have some wonderful 
id,~as. If you/resent them well, 
you may fin yourself climbing 
th,~ corporate ladder. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Yciur creative talent needs an 
ou.tlet. Music, dancing or maybe 
even some writing would help 
satisfy your artistic desires. 
O,on't hesitate to show your 
w,;irk. You will gain support and 
ac;lmitation. 000 

CROSSWORD ACROSS 
1 The Marines, e.g. 6 Mafia bosses 10 Venus de Milo's lack 14 Take as one's own 15 Guinness who was knighted 16 "Star Wars" princess 
17 Game 
20 Submissions to ads. 
21 What the booby prize winner scored 
22"Money_ objecr 23 Purim honoree 25 Yellow-ribboned tree 27 N.B.A.'s Erving, informally 
29 Space race 
acronym 30 Rules maven 32 Squeeze (out) 
33 Wedding guide 36 Hosted, as 
3-Down 38 Game 41 Chinese 
dumpling 42 Best 43 "What Kind of 
Fool ?" 44 Wrinkled fruit 46 " there?" 
(part of a knock­
knock joke) 50 Gen­51 Martini maker 52 Tomorrow, in 
Tijuana 54 Roman wrap 56 Director DeMille 59 "Oy _!" 60 Game 
_,... 



Midwestern upset 
The No. 5 Irish Jell to No. 11 Northwestern in a 4-3 upset for its first loss to a Midwestern team since 1996.
PORTS 
page 16 
A!_HE 

page 24 VtlSERVER 
Tuesday, March 6, 200 I 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish move on to UCon11 in finals with win over Virginia Tech 
• Riley scores just two as 
.,. Notre Dame earns 6 7-49 win over Virgina Tech 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assisram Si,orts Editor 
STORRS, Conn. With nine minutes, 30 seconds remaining in 

Monday's 67-49 Rig East Tournament semifinal win over Virginia Tech. Irish center Ruth Hiley was fouled driving to the hoop. 
Hiley grinned as she approached the line. After connecting on the first, she pointed to the sky. Sim thun connected 011 the second. 
The point,:; were the first -and only -on the night for the Big East's Player of the Year and leading scorer. It was the first time this season Riley entered halftime scoreless. 
"We tried to force catches six to seven feet away tried to provide more ball pressure," Virginia Tech coach Bonnie Ilenrickson said. "l thought our effort defensively was very good." 
Despite her offensive struggles, Riley was happy to see her teammates step up in her absence. She laughed the entire time she was at the free-throw line. 
"You've got to llaugh]. I was thankful," Riley said. "I was thanking the Lord a little bit there for that free throw." 
The senior played only 24 minutes, struggling with her shooting and committing four fouls. In Riley's absence, sophomore backup Amanda Barksdale stepped up her play for the second day in a row. 
After blocking six shots in Sunday's quarterfi­nal win over Georgetown, Barksdale added three more on Monday, to go along with a sea­son-high six points. The North Carolina native pulled down nine rebounds, which tied teammate Kelley Siemon for most on the night. 
"I though Mandy had a lot more than three blocks," Irish coach MulTet McGraw said after the game. "She certainly distorted a lot of shots and so did Ruth. With those two in the middle of the 
r 
see B-BALL/page 19 


. Irish will face UConn again in Big East Tournament Championships 
By TIM CASEY 
Assistant Sporn Editor 
STORHS. CONN. 

Nearly two months of anticipation boils down to two hours of rc.11ity tonight. Hopefully. Several inches of snow blanketed this rural town 
in northeastern Connecticut on Monday night and forecasts estimate that additional snow will accu­mulate today. If Wf\ather permits, No. l Notre Dame and No. 2 Connecticut will square off for the Big East tournament championships tonight at 7:30, a game that will be televised on ESPN2. 
The two teams met on Jan. 15, with the Irish upsetting the then top-ranked Huskies 92-76 before a sold-out .Joyce Center crowd. 
Due to Monday's storm, a police escort led two busloads full of Notre Dame players. coaches. man­agers, cheerleaders, band nrnmbers. athletic department officials and members of the media to and from Gampel Pavilion. After Notre Dame's 67­49 victory over Virginia Tech, it took 45 minutes for the buses to drive the 20-mile trip from Gampel to the team's hotel. 
Also, the semifinal game between Connecticut and Rutgers was delayed for nearly an hour while a repairman fixed a leak on Gampel's roof. The Huskies cruised to a 94-66 win to set up tonight's rematch. 
Notre Dame (28-1 overall) and Connecticut (27-2 overall) entered the tournament with identical 15-1 conference records but the Irish gained the No. 1 seed due to their earlier win. 
Since the 1993-94 season, the Huskies have won seven straight tournament titles, two national championships and have gone 135-5 in Big East regular season games. 
So although the Irish are ranked atop the latest national polls, Muffet McGraw referred to her team as the underdog during Thursday's Big East tele­
see PREVIEW/pagel 9 

HOCKEY 
Irish lose chance at CCHA 
By MAIT ORENCHUK Sports Writer 
Going into this weekend's series against Western Michigan, the Notre Dame hockey team held their own fate: win and the Irish would be in the CCI-IA pla.yoils. But it was not to be for the Trish as they lost 7-2. 
A sellout crowd showed up at the JACC on Saturday for senior night. While the crowd was enthused by the pregame ceremonies, the game proved to be a major disappointment for Notre Dame. Western Michigan capitalized on numer­ous Notre Dame penalties to defeat the Irish. Bowling Green beat Ferris State in other CCHA action. The Notre Dame loss coupled with the Bowling Green win propelled the Falcons into the final CCHA playoff spot, and left the Irish home to contemplate the sea­son. 
In the first period of Saturday's game. the Irish could not capitalize on numer­ous scoring opportunities. Western Michigan took a 1-0 lead on a goal by Ryan Crane at the 12:48 mark of the period. Crane was able to slip a rebound past Irish goalie Jeremiah Kimento for the score. 

"The failure to capitalize in the first period was the game." Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "I thought we played with a lot of confidence in the first period, but we didn't get it done." 
The second period found the Notre Dame defense asleep. Western Michigan scored 20 seconds into the period to fur­ther their lead to 2-0. The Broncos put two more goals on the board, and the second peri­od ended with Western Michigan leading 4-0. 
In the third, Aaron Gill finally got the Irish on the board with 
see HOCKEY/page 17 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Hobbins earns first title win over Macias 
By BRIAN BURKE 
Spores Writer 
It was the last chance for Brian "Nightmare" Hobbins. and the senior captain would not be denied. Hobbins won a split deci­sion over Thomas "Boom-Boom" Macias Friday night in the finals and earned a title in his final fight. 
"To get that is pretty sweet," Hobbins said. 
The bout was one of contrast­ing styles; Macias charging at Hobbins and trying to light close, and Hobbins dancing in and out while counter-punching. Hobbins landed several combi­nations in the first round, result­ing in three stoppages to tend to a bleeding Macias. 
"The stops were a little frus­trating," Hobbins said, "but I'm glad Tom got to finish. He's a tough kid." 
sec BOUTS/page 17 

vs. Michigan Men's Lacrosse
(fi1

,==:;,) Thursday, 4 p.m.. at Rutgers 
SPORTS 

Friday, 3 p.m. 
Baseball ., ATA at Pacific Big East Tournament vs. Michigan Saturday, I p.m. vs. Miami/Pitc ~ Saturday, 11 a.m.
GLANCE 

Thursday, 6:40 p.m.
• 




