
Finally!
PARTLY 

Monday
CLOUDY 
Notre Dame football fans react to the team's win Saturday against Pittsburgh, the first victory of the season. 
OCTOBER 8, 
News . page 3
HIGH 62° 
2001 
LOW45° 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 30 HTTP:/!OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Accused rapist may return to campus 
• Former ND football player could visit despite alleged 1998 ban 
By MYRA McGRIFF Saint Mary's Editor 
Former Notre Dame taHback Cooper Rego is scheduled to return to campus this weekend as a member of the West Virginia football team despite being banned from campus in 1998. 
According to Notre Dame alumna Kori Pienovi and an August 2001 e­mail from a senior Residence Life and Housing administrator to Pienovi, Rego was banned from campus as part of a disciplinary decision in 1998. 
-The administrator did not deny writ­ing the e-mail. 
Pienovi said that Rego was expelled from school and banned from campus for raping her. The reasons for Rego's transfer to West Virginia nor the details of his disci­
plinary action were revealed in 1998. 
West Virginia sports information director Shelly Poe confirmed that Rego is scheduled to play for the Mountaineers, 


Saturday. Rego 
"As far as I know there isn't any issue about it," Poe said Friday. 
Calls to Rego's listed number in West Virginia were not returned Sunday night. 
Notre Dame officials had no com­ment on the situation. Bill Kirk and Father Mark Poorman, assistant vice president of Residence Life and vice president of Residence Life, respective­ly, did not return several phone calls seeking comment. 
Athletic director Kevin White's office declined to comment and referred questions to the General Counsel Office. General Counsel referred all questions to Denny Moore, director of Public Relations. 
Moore confirmed that the University has been in contact with West Virginia but Notre Dame is not at liberty to dis­cuss its own position stating that the University is "protected from discus­sion under federal law." 
Disciplinary proceedings are consid­ered private parts of students educa­tional record by federal law. 
Moore did discuss Notre Dame's gen­eral policy on upholding bans on stu­dents. 
He stated that if a banned student charged with sexual assault were to come on campus and security was made aware of the situation the stu­dent would be asked to leave. 
He made a distinction for a student banned corning to campus as a group rather than an individual. 
"As an individual, security would ask them to leave ... As a group, that is some thing different, something we haven't been confronted with," Moore said. 
All banned individuals pose a threat. regardless of group affiliation, accord­ing to Pienovi. 
"If they knowingly let a rapist on campus then they are knowingly 
see REGO/page 7 


. U.S., British air strikes hit Afghan targets as Bush promises victory in war on terrorism 
-Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

American and British forces 
unleashed punishing air strikes 
Sunday against military targets 
and Osama bin Laden's training 
camps inside Afghanistan, aim­
ing at terrorists blamed for the 
Sept. 11 attacks that murdered 
thousands in New York and 
Washington. 
"We will not waver, we will 
not tire," said President Bush, 
speaking from the White House 
as Tomahawk cruise missiles 
and bombs found targets 
halfway around the globe. "We 
will not falter and we will not 
fail." 
The opening of a sustained 
campaign dubbed "Enduring 
Freedom," the assault was 
accompanied by airdrops of 
thousands of vitamin-enriched 
food rations for needy civilians 
-and by a ground-based 
attack by Afghan opposition 
forces against the ruling 
Taliban. 
In a chilling threat, bin Laden 
vowed defiantly that "neither 
America nor the people who live 
in it will dream of security 
before we live it in Palestine, 
and not before all the infidel 
armies leave thela:nd of 
Muhammad." That was an 
apparent reference to Israel 
and Saudi Arabia. He spoke in a 
videotaped statement prepared 
see STRIKES/page 4 


. Students express mixed reactions to U.S. counterattack 

By HELENA PAYNE 
Assiscant News Editor 
Notre Dame students had mixed reactions to the U.S. military air strikes in Afghanistan Sunday. The air strikes focused on areas sus­pected to be terrorist training camps were in response to the ter­rorist attacks on Sept. 11 at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. On the Notre Dame cam­pus, far from the attacks. many stu­dents have responded to the recent events with various levels of emo­tional attachment to the conflict, but with the common goal of reaching peace swiftly. 
Junior Steve Kelly from Massachusetts said he learned about both the terrorists attacks on Sept. 11 and the U.S. retaliation by fellow students in his dorm and has been uneasy about the circum­stances. 
"I think something else is going to happen," said Kelly. "That makes me real nervous." 
The brother of Kelly's best friend is a secret service agent that was working in the \'\'orld Trade Center on the day of the bombings. Although he escaped, Kelly said knowing somebody who was directly affected by the bombings has sharpened the impact of the terrorism conflict on his life. 
'Tm amazed at how large the reaction is here," said Kelly. 
Kelly said he was impressed by 
see RFACTION/page 4 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, October 8, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Minestrone Fritos 
The other night I was perusing the forum at SFM -the building formerly knovvn as SDH ­when I spotted a batch of Fritos sitting inconspic­uously at the end of the soup island. Naturally thinking "chili Fritos!" I scooped some up and 
looked around for the chili. As  
it turned out, however. there  
wasn't any on this particular  
night. As to what unforgivable  
managerial blunder is respon­ 
sible I know not, but let me say,  
fellow students, that this is less  
acceptable then the play calling  
on Saturday. As I scooped up  ·  
a ladle of minestrone  
instead, I was reminded of  Tom Haight  
the kitchen scene in the  
movie "Friday" where Ice Cube lectures his father on the mismatched food selec­tion from which they suffer.  Assistant Ad Design Manager  
This column really isn't  

about what hardships I've recently endured though, for lo and behold I've actually got some useful information to share (Hey, I didn't believe it at first either, but there is a first time for every­thing: just ask Bob Davie}. 
Notre Dame's student government is on the verge of doing something productive this year (after such an impressive streak to the contrary) by improving the food courts/markets. 
One of the awe-inspiring ideas that I felt was right up there with "Plan something-or-other From Outer Space" was the addition of music for dinner. Correct me if I'm wrong, but if I have to yell at my friends three seats. down from me now, what's the addition of Catholic hymns going to help? Do you have any real doubt that the University will eventually take it over? 
Even if we would suppose, as they want us to, that the music selection would be left up to us, I really can't say that I'd enjoy listening to Dave Matthews every night. Don't get me wrong, there's nothing wrong with Dave, but after hear­ing Crash for the 1 0,000th time it starts getting old. 
To the student government's credit, they are actually trying to get that much-campaigned-on­and-yet-to-be-delivered grab-and-go facility in DeBartolo Hall (a.k.a., Godsend for people with bad DART times). There is also a motion to improve the vegetarian type selection, which I support despite my passion for red meat, since there's nothing quite like finding that the fresh vegetables more closely resemble the physical properties of rubber than anything else I can find in the back of my engineering textbook (including wood). 
Finally, and perhaps most importantly, they are actually trying to change it to where one can. (insert gasp here) use your meals at any time of the day! As we all know, the current method of allowing only one meal over a certain interval is used to cut costs, since they budget on the aver­age number of meals we don't eat in a week. As a person who'd love nothing more then to grab­and-go my breakfast for the next morning after dinner, I just hope that the University sees this as at least as useful an idea as putting a 10,000 lb. floating marble on display. In other words, despite its practicality, I'm giving about the same odds on it as on Bob Davie's phone number being listed at the end of the season. 
And now I'll get off my soapbox and go back to eating my Minestrone Fritos, which I must add is not quite as bad as toad-in-the-hole or some of South Food Market's other prize desserts. 
Contact Tom Haight at THaight@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. W c do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Auociated Press. All ttproduction rights arc reserved. 


THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Lecture: "Beyond MTV:  . Event: "Colcannon," Irish  
New Resources in Digital  band, 7:30 p.m., Little  
Video and Animation,..  Theater  
Peter Terry, Noon. Little  . Performance: "The  
Theater  Miami Wind Quintet,"  
. Film: "25 Watts," 7 p.m,  7:30 p.m., Annenberg  
Auditorium, Hesburgh  Auditorium, The Snite  
Center  

Wednesday 
. 
Theater: "How the Other Half Loves," 7:30 p.m., Washington Hall 

. 
Performance: "A Kiss to Build a Dream On," 7:30 p.m., Little Theater 


Thursday 
. 
Lecture: "States, Revolutions, and the Case of Columbia," Jeff Goodwin, 4:15 p.m., Hesburgh Center 

. 
Film: "Dr. Strangelove," 7 p.m., Auditorium, Hesburgh Center 


Compiled from U-Wire reports


BEYOND CAMPUS 
Michigan prepares biochemical defenses 
ANN ARBOR denature," pathology department 

As nightmares of possible biologi­
chairman Peter Ward said. "It is true cal and chemical terrorist attacks that if terrorist organizations were continue to scare many Americans, able to produce viruses in large quan­University of Michigan researchers tities, it could be an absolutely devas­push to develop defense techniques tating event, but it is unlikely that a against biochemical weapons. group would be able to obtain and Although researchers said they feel culture the viruses." the possibility of biological and Ward, whose research involves chemical warfare has been blown out mustard gas and its extensive damag­of proportion since the events of Sept. ing effects on the lungs, said he hopes 
these issues, but running around say­

11, they feel America should be aware his work will lead to an antidote for
ing the sky is falling isn't going to

of the possibilities. people on the-battle field and in the
help."
"I think there is a significant risk," general population exposed to the
Researchers urge the public to

said James Baker, head of the deadly chemical. 
understand biochemical warfare

University Medical School allergy and "It's a very cheap compound to
requires sophisticated delivery mech­

immunology department. "Certainly manufacture, so if a terrorist group
anisms and labs in which to grow the 

there are countries that have these decides they want to expose a popula­
viruses.

agents, but I don't think the risk is any tion to something like that, it's not dif­
"You'd have to spread them across a

different than before Sept. 11. People ficult to make," Ward said. "The trick
fairly large geographical area with a

should prepare appropriately for is how do you distribute it in the air." 
large population because they would 


UNIVERSITY OF UTAH 
Researcher finds new HIV code 

The virus that causes AIDS commandeers a white­blood cell's own inner machinery, producing more virus particles to invade new cells and spreading the disease. But researchers at the University of Utah have found a key component to a viral particle's escape from its host cell. This is still "basic research," s11id Wes Sundquist, professor of biochemistry. However, the discovery has potential to yield a drug treatment for AIDS. Based on the research, Myriad Genetics is working to develop such a drug, he said. Because strains of HIV resistant to current treatments have sprung up recently, drugs using different mech­anisms to thwart the virus must be developed. Doctors need the "next generation" drugs to fight increasing resistance in both bacterial and viral infec­tions. "It's a constant war," Sundquist said. HIV, the virus responsible for AIDS, enters a host cell. Acting like a parasite, it causes the cell to produce thousands of copies of the virus' genetic code. 


UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY 
Inmates utilize distance learning 
Utah Prison and Jail inmates are given the chance to rehabilitate themselves and better their education through Utah State University's Extension and Continuing Education department. Vince Lafferty, director of Distance Education, first started a dis­tance learning program for inmates in 1985 when the Utah prison and jail systems approached him with the idea. Now an estimated 150 full-time and part-time inmates are continuing their education every semester. "I felt there was a big need. We could have a tremendous impact not only on the inmates but society as a whole," Lafferty said. USU offers only specific degrees through this program such as a bachelor's in business administration, a minor in business information systems or accounting and a bachelor's in psychology for inmates who plan on attending graduate school. Lafferty said these degrees offer inmates more marketable skills in today's economy than other degrees offered on cam­pus might. 



LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather® forecast.for noon.Monday, Oct. 8.
AccuWeather•forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 

COLD WJ\RM STJ\nONJ\RY
0 2001 AccuWealher Inc. •• --•e • 
_....,, 
'-•
®©.. DIJ. @J. 
High Low Shower• Rein 1..10,me FlurrlN Snow Ice Sunny PL Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta 74 43 Las Vegas 84 70 Portland 66 55 Baltimore 68 42 Memphis 60 42 Sacramento 68 47 
Boston 55 37 Milwaukee 48 23 St. Louis 61 54 New York
q,Q,~9.Q ~ (f ~ ~ 
Shc:,wers T-storms Rain F~rri9S ~ Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 68 48 45 33 Tampa 76 54 Houston 84 58 Philadelphia 59 39 Washington DC 65 52 
. -.
-~ ---. --~ ----. --------.......... ·--------­
, • .. •••• f 
• I 


Monday, October 8, 2001 page 3
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 





ND prayer vigil counters U.S. attacks 
tates us coming together. You 
By JASON McFARLEY 
just can't be silent ... not as 
News Editor 
Christians, not as human 
beings," she said. 
In the weeks following last Students sat in a circle on the month's terrorist attacks, mem­lawn in front of the water foun­bers of Notre Dame's Peace tain popularly called Coalition trusted that a counter­Stonehenge. On the 45-degree attack by the U.S. government afternoon, many wore the "Pray was imminent. for Peace" T-shirts the Peace The newly formed coalition Coalition distributed on campus even had a game plan in the Sept. 22 before the Notre Dame­
event that U.S. military forces Michigan State football game. 
responded to the Sept. 11 The people represented main­attacks in New York and ly other pacifist groups -Pax Washington: Meet at 5 p.m. that Christi and the Progressiveday on the S t u d e ,n t University's Alliance. They
"For those ofus who
Fieldhouse Mall prayed on 
to protest the understand that peace Sunday for the violence. is in no way related to safety of On Sunday, American and
violence, it necessitates 
following U.S. Afghan civil­
strikes on us coming together. You 
ians and a Afghanistan, just can't be silent ... speedy resolu­more than two tion to the con­
not as Christians. not
dozen students 
flict before it 
gathered at that as human beings. " 
turned to a site for a hastily full-fledgedorganized 
Rachel Soltis war. 
prayer vigil in At one point
Peace Coalition member 
response to the during the 40­American minu te vigil, action. participants joined hands and 
"It's not an easy day," said spoke their prayers aloud. senior Rachel Soltis, a member "It's part of a process of inter­of Pax Christi and the Peace preting, reflecting on and react­Coalition. "The reality of vio­ing to these events," said Aaron "This was something put also a PSA member. The group next meets at 7:30 lence responding to violence ... 
Kreider, a graduate student and together at the last minute by In light of Sunday's attacks on p.m. Thursday in the Center for it's overwhelming. former PSA president. "[Holding people who were brought Afghanistan, the Peace Coalition Social Concerns. 
"For those of us who under­
the prayer vigil] makes it a together by mutual feelings organizers expected to "begin
stand that peace is in no way more wholesome type of move­about an issue that affects all of meeting now more than ever," Contact Jason McFarley at related to violence, it necessi-ment." 
us," said junior Paul Graham. Soltis said. mcfarley. l@nd.edu 

KYLIE CARTER/The Observer 

Members of Notre Dame's newly created Peace Coalition gathered Sunday for a prayer vigil in response to U.S. and British military attacks on Afghanistan. The coalition was fomed immedi­ately after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. 
Victory resurrects some fans' confidence 

By SHEILA EGTS 
News Writer 
Although Saturday's 24-7 win over Pittsburgh cannot_ erase the three consecutive losses to start the season that will go down in Notre Dame football history, the victory was enough to rebuild the confidence of some fans and students. 
"I know that people were really down about Davie and the team, but I've noticed a def­inite turnaround,'' sophomore student manger Amber Vachon said. "I'm glad we pulled out a win, because I would not want to start seeing empty stands. I think people will be more excit­ed to go now that we've won." 
"The win was a breath of fresh air since for those of us who eat, sleep, and live Notre Dame football. Getting that first win reinvigorated everyone," said junior Patrick Esper. 
Shay Jolly thinks the Irish may be able to finish with a decent record if they use this win to their advantage. "Personally, I see the Irish com­ing back and winning their games. Even though they start­ed out on the wrong foot. I think our team can still make some­thing out of this season," the freshman said. 
"I think [the win] will pick them up, but it depends on how well the next team plays. If they come out with the same attitude they did this week, I think they'll do well," said freshman Heidi Schindler. . 
Freshman Nick Stober said: "It's hard to say how the rest of the season will go, but as long as they focus on the win, they should be alright 
on Davie while the credit for this week's win goes to the team. 
"I think this win has done nothing but buy Davie another week and delay the inevitable," said freshman Dan Straka. 
"People have made up their minds about whether or not they like Davie. But I think if he can build on the momentum, he might be able to counterbalance how the year started," said Esper. 
"I think that the Bob Davie problem goes much deeper than one game. People are really questioning why we aren't get­ting results from the players. The talent is there but somehow the coaching staff isn't realizing that talent," said Wyss. 
But according to sophomore Aldo Tesi, the Davie bashing has gotten out of hand. 
"It really angered me when 
NOW LEASING 
FORTHE 2002-2.003 SCHOOL YEAR 
DOMUS PROPERTIES 
HAS 

-2., 41 51 6I 7I 8/ 9I & 1Q 
BEDROOM HOUSES -STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS -CLOSE TO CAMPUS -SECURITY SYSTEMS -WELL MAINTAINED HOMES -MANITENANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASHER AND DRYERS 
CONTACT KRAMER (2.19) 298-9673 OR (219) 234-2436 OR (2.19) 674-2471 
However, sophomore Joe Wyss and other fans are still questioning how the Irish will fare against the tougher teams they have to face in upcoming weeks. 
"Even though it was just Pitt, it was finally nice to get some­thing in the win column. But I would expect a win out of them against Pitt, and they will have to step in up to compete against Tennessee, Stanford and USC. I don't want to be a pessimist, but I honestly don't know if they can dig out of the hole that we started the season in." 
Students agree that the victo­ry over Pittsburgh heightened campus morale, but there is no significant change in feelings towards Irish head coach Bob Davie. The T-shirts saying "Dump Davie" and "Drinking because we suck" won't be tucked away in closets just yet. The blame for the losses is still the fans yelled 'Lou' because it's the job of the fans to cheer for the team and the coaches. The boos have got to be getting in Davie's head and can only hurt our chances of having a good season," said Tesi. 
The rocky beginning to the season has shown that Notre Dame continues to boast die­hard fans that will support the team regardless of the win-loss record. 
"No matter who the coach is or how the team is doing, I'm a fan of Notre Dame football. We should show them we support them despite what is happening on the field," Esper said. 
''I'd go to the games whether we win or lose. I love Notre Dame football, no doubt about it. I'm behind the team 100 per­cent," Vachon said. 
Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu 
page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, October 8, 2001 


Reaction 
continued from page 1 

the patriotic reactions of the Notre Daine commwuty mentioning how all the spectators at the Michigan State and Notre Dame football grune raised flags during "America. the Beautiful." 
'That showed the most humanity I've ever seen," said Kelly. 
Although, Kelly saw a positive aspect in the U.S.'s wuty during this time of conflict, freshman Meredith Thornburgh said the U.S. retalia­tions were the extra step needed to respond to the terrorist attacks after ahnost a month of no military retali­ation. 
"I feel like Bush probably took a lot of time to think about what would be appropriate," said Thornburgh. "It's just a very com­plicated issue. It's hard to fight a war against people who aren't afraid ofdying." 
Although Thornburgh is from Indianapolis, she, like Kelly. knew someone close to her that was in New York City on the day of the attacks. Thornburgh's aunt, an attorney, was in court four blocks away from the World Trade Center when planes crashed into the Twin Towers. Thornburgh didn't hear from her aunt until 10 a.m. on Sept. 
12. the day after the attack. 

Since Thornburgh heard about the U.S. air strikes in Afghanistan, she said she was finally reassured that the U.S. wasn't going to ignore what happened. , 
"I definitely don't have a problem with war as long as it's justified," said Thornburgh. "It's just sad that the U.S. government knew what the Taliban was doing long before they took action." 
Another freshman, Alicia D'Alessandro from New Jersey, said it has been difficult to be away from home during this period of unrest. 
'The only day I felt really home­sick was the day of the attacks," said D'Alessandro whose uncle is a police officer for the New York Police Department stationed at ground zero to do relief work after the attacks. 
"I didn't know for a couple of hours if my family was OK," said D'Alessandro. 
Despite the anxiety caused by the attacks, D'Alessandro said she was glad to have to support that she has found on campus. 
"If I had to be away from home, Notre Dame is a great place two be because of the whole religious com­munity," said D'Alessandro. 
She also said that although she would like to see a nonviolent end to the conflict. the U.S. retaliation was a good decision. 
"Even though this is drastic, it's better than sitting back and allow­ing [terrorism] to happen," said D'Alessandro. "I just hope this is resolved as quickly as possible because it's trying for everyone." 
Differing from those who want a quick resolution to the tension, even if violent, Josh Berg, a junior at Michigan State who visited Notre Dame friends this past weekend, had a negative reaction to the U.S.'s method of retaliation. 
"This was another example of the 
U.S. retaliating in an unreasonable manner. I don't think it will accom­plish anything," said Berg. "The only purpose is so that the public feels we got revenge in some way." 
Berg said that the air strikes didn't seem to be the best way to respond to the terrorism attacks. 
"We should fight war with peace instead of war with war," said Berg who noticed that many students seemed to support the U.S. retalia­tion. He also said he considered the Notre Dame student body to be more conservative and therefore likely to encourage a strong military retaliation. 
"I think the general consensus in everyone is rallying behind the president. It sort of makes me feel disenchanted with the American public," said Berg. 
Like Berg, senior Kate Ponto said she has also been somewhat disillu­sioned by the recent events connect­ed to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
'The talk aJ:x:iut retaliation upsets me," said senior Kate Ponto. "I'm just wonied about what it'll lead to, who will get hurt, and ifit's the best thing." 
Ponto, born and raised in Kalamazoo, Michigan, said it is hard for her to feel closely attached to the terrorist attacks because she didn't know anybody affected by them. 
"It doesn't seem very connected to my life," said Ponto. "[New York and Washington, D.C., are] part of the very unreal world that comes to me through 1V." 
Just like the 'unreal world' that Ponto sees on television, she said this new crunpaign against terror­ism has been like yet another saga in American history that has visibly captured the attention of students in a way that she hasn't seen during her years at Notre Dame. 
"I don't think I've seen anything quality as dramatic as what has happened," said Ponto. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 
STUIDY -AU[STRAILIA 
""' 

Study Abroad in Australia and New Zealand 
• Open to all Majors at  Available Programs  
ND and SMC  •Semester/ Year  
• Locations: Sydney,  • Internships  
Melbourne, Brisbane,  • Summer  
Gold Coast, Auckland  • Winter  
Academic Credit can be fully transferable to ND/SMC  • Student Teaching  

Still accepting applications for Spring 2002 
Study Australia Ltd. 
Contact: Chris Shepherd (ND Class of '94) Phone: (800) 585-9658 Email: info@study-australia.com Internet: www.study-australia.com 



Strikes 
continued from page 1 

before the attacks, but both he and the leader of the Taliban ruling council of Afghanistan were reported to have survived the initial aerial assault. 
In a fresh reminder of the potential for renewed terrorist attacks, the FBI said it was urg­ing law enforcement agencies nationwide to "be at the highest level of vigilance and be pre­pared to respond to any act of terrorism or violence." 
Bush gave the final go-ahead for the strike on Saturday, less than four weeks after terrorists flew two hijacked airplanes into the World Trade Center twin towers and a third into the Pentagon. A fourth plane crashed in the Pennsylvania countryside after an apparent struggle between passengers and terrorists on board. 
In addition to the Sept. 11 death toll -estimated at more than 5,000 -the attacks dealt a shuddering blow to Americans' feeling of security. and propelled an already weak­ened economy toward reces­sion. 
Bush said the military action was "designed to clear the way for sustained, comprehensive and relentless operations" to bring the terrorists to justice. 
"I know many Americans feel fear today." the presid en t added said in his nationally televised announcement from the White House Treaty Room. Signs of heightened security concerns were evident. as offi­cials took Vice President Dick Cheney from his residence to an undisclosed secure location. security was stepped up around the Capitol and government nuclear weapons labs were put on higher alert. The FBI said it was acting on the basis of "the possibility of additional terrorist activity occurring somewhere in the world." 
In Saudi Arabia, the U.S. Embassy remained closed on Monday, and authorities cau­tioned Americans to "review their own security precau­tions." 
Within hours of the attacks, Bush drew public support from foreign leaders around the world -including a statement from the Russian Foreign Ministry. Congressional leaders chorused their approval, as did the American public. 
A crowd of 64,000 cheered the president's words at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, where the begin­ning of a professional football game was delayed so the fans could view Bush's appearance on the big screen scoreboard. Chants of "USA, USA" filled another stadium, this one in Atlanta. 
The initial strike involved 50 Tomahawk cruise missiles, launched from American and British ships. Gen. Richard Myers said 15 bombers and 25 strike aircraft, both sea and land-based, also were involved. The assault came at 12:30 p.m. EDT nighttime in Afghanistan. 
Myers, sworn into office as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff less than a week ago, said the attacks included B~1, B-2 and B-52 bombers as well as ships and submarines that have been deployed in the region in the days since Sept. 11. 
The B-52s dropped at least dozens of 500-pound gravity bombs on al-Qaida terrorist training camps in eastern Afghanistan, one official said. 
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said the strikes were designed to eliminate the Taliban's air defenses and destroy their military aircraft. Afghanistan's rulers are known to have a small inventory of surface-to-air missiles as well as shoulder-fired anti-aircraft missiles. 
Afghan sources in Pakistan said the attack had damaged the Taliban military headquar­ters and destroyed a radar installation and control tower at the airport in the southern Afghan city of Kandahar. Smoke could be seen billowing from the high-walled com­pound of Mullah Mohammed Omar, the Taliban leader, these sources added. 
One Pentagon official said that while highly visible attacks were being carried out, other operations 
would not be seen publicly. Officials have said previously that U.S. special forces have been operating inside Afghanistan. 
Roughly an hour after the first volley of cruise missiles, Taliban forces came under attack from the northern alliance, Afghan opposition forces who fired multiple-rock­et launchers from an air base about 25 miles north of Kabul. 
A spokesman at the Afghan Embassy in Tajikistan. a nation that does not recognize the Taliban as rulers of Afghanistan, said that the oppo­sition could make an attempt to enter Kabul. the capital. 
Asked· when, he said perhaps in days or a week. 
Bush spoke less than an hour after the first explosion could be heard in Kabul, followed by the sounds of anti-aircraft fire. Power went off throughout the city almost immediately after the first of five thunderous blasts. 
The president said the mili­tary strike would be accompa­nied by the delivery of food, medicine and other supplies needed to sustain the people of Afghanistan. Pentagon officials said the yellow plastic packets, dropped by C-17 cargo planes, are about the size and weight of a hardcover book. 
Our internships aren't easy to get into. 
Then again, neither is college. 
Come find out about our paid internships in the areas of accounting, business, finance, human resources. computer science, information 
management and engineering.  
Event:  INROADS INFO-SESSION  
Location:  Career Resource Center-Flanner Hall  
Date:  Monday, October 8, 2001  
Time:  7:00 p.m.  

Come speak with INROADS to find out about internship opportunities with companies such as: 
Abbott Laboratories KPMG,LLP 
Andersen IBM Accenture PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP 
Kraft Foods The Northern Trust Procter and Gamble GE Capital Financial Assurance 
Many Others 

We Want to SEE YOU! This event is sponsored by The Career Center and Multicultural Student Programs and Services. 


INROADS 

This meeting is for First Year Students and Sophomores Only·! 





ATION 
Monday, October 8, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVIC:ES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Vatican paves way for sainthood: 
Pope John Paul II put seven people on the road to possible sainthood Sunday, beatifying a victim of the Nazis, an Armenian archbish­op killed by the Ottoman Turks and five founders or members of religious orders. Thousands of pilgrims gathered in a bright St. Peters' Square and cheered as the names of the beatified were read out and their images unveiled on tapestries hung from the basilica. 

Licenses granted for AIDS drugs: 
GlaxoSmithKline has granted a generic drug manufacturer a license to produce and mar­ket key AIDS medicines in South Africa, a Glaxo official said Sunday. South African com­pany Aspen Pharmacare would be allowed to sell its versions of the widely used AIDS drugs to the public health system. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
M~rathon record broken: Kenya's Catherine Ndereba set a worn.en's world best on Sunday when she won the Chicago Marathon in 2 hours, 18 minutes, 47 seconds. Takahashi's time was the first under 2:20 for a female marathon runner. 
Emmy awards cancelled: The Emmy Awards telecast, delayed three weeks by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, was canceled Sunday after United States and Britain launched a military attack in Afghanistan. It was the first cancellation in the awards' 53­year history. 
Alaskan pipeline repaired: Crews on Saturday sealed a bullet hole in the trans­Alaska pipeline, finally stopping a leak that . spewed 285,600 gallons of oil over three days. With the temporary repair in place, workers turned their attention to the massive job of 
cleaning up the two acres of wilderness. 

INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Three dead in Indianapolis: Three men were found fatally shot, and a teenager was wounded Friday night in a drug-related shooting. The deaths, at an apartment com­plex on the city's northeast side, were appar­ently part of a botched robbery. Marion County sherifrs deputies say. "We do know it was planned as a drug robbery that went extremely, tragically wrong," sherifrs Major Mike Turk said Saturday of the shootings at the Sutton Place Apartments.. The teen who was wounded was believed to have been an innocent bystander. 
Market Watch October 5 
Dow 
9,119.77 +58.89 
Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 190 NIA 
A:MEX: 833.28 +4.68 NASDAQ: 1,605.3 +7.99 NYSE: 554.40 -0.38 S&P 500: 1,071.38 +1.75 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +6.24 +0.58 9.87 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +l.47 +0.46 31.76 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.61 +0.52 14.94 GLOBAL CROSSING (GX) -22.43 -0.41 0.83 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.90 +0.24 21.96 
AFGHANISTAN 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

European governments gave swift and solid back­ing to the U.S.-British attacks on Osama bin Laden and his backtrs Sunday, with France say­ing its forces would also take part. 
Iran and Iraq protested the action in Afghanistan. On the streets across the Islamic world, many denounced the attack as an act of war against Arabs and Muslims. 
Baghdad called the mis­sile attack and air raids "treacherous aggression;" Israel supported them as "the right and courageous decision." 
In an address to the nation, President Bush said Canada, Australia, Germany and France have "pledged forces as the operation unfolds," and numerous other countries .have granted air transit or landing rights. Still more nations are providing intel­ligence, he said. 
Bush telephoned several European leaders just before the attacks began. including French President Jacques Chirac. 
Later, in a televised address to the French peo­ple, Chirac said: "Our forces will participate. At this stage French vessels are associated with this operation." 
Until now France had offered airspace and naval logistical support. "In recent days," Chirac said, "the United States made new demands for military participation." 
Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien confirmed that his country would meet Bush's request for a military contribution. In a message to the nation he said military units were being told to report for duty. 
Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi put his country on heightened alert and promised that "Italy is by the side of the United States and all who are committed to the battle against terrorism." 
Italy has offered troops, as well as use of its ports and airports. 
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder promised Bush his coun­try's "unlimited solidarity." 
"There is no alternative to this struggle, which we must win and will win," Schroeder told reporters. 
Small anti-war demons­trations were held in some European cities, and some governments expressed regret that military action could not be avoided. 
Although those govern­ments mentioned the need to spare civilian lives and get humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, the overall stress was on supporting Sunday's attack. 
Romano Prodi, president of the 15-nation European Commission, said "all Europe stands steadfast with the United States and its coalition allies to pur­sue the fight against ter­rorism" and "against those who attack the very foun­dations of civilization." 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said on CNN: "We feel part and parcel of this campaign, and if we are asked (to help), every­thing will be considered seriously and positively." 
Iran's Foreign Ministry said the "vast U.S. attacks" were "unacceptable," the Iranian news agency IRNA reported. Iraqi TV gave minute-by-minute cover­age of the "treacherous aggression." 
Other Arab capitals did not immediately comment, but many denounced the attack as an act of war. 

U.S. drops food aid to Afghans 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The U.S. military strikes Sunday in Afghanistan were followed by air­drops of food, medicine and other humanitarian supplies. 
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said plans called for two C­17 cargo planes to drop 37,500 food packets to starving Afghans on the first day of airstrikes. 
The humanitarian aid is meant to underscore the Bush administra­tion's message that the strikes are meant to harm terrorists, not ordi­nary Afghans. 
"To say that these attacks are in any way against Afghanistan or the Afghan people is flat wrong," Rumsfeld said. 
The military also dropped leaflets and made radio broadcasts into Afghanistan to explain the U.S. action, he said. 
The airdrops are delivering "humanitarian daily rations," plastic pouches of food enriched with vita­mins and minerals to boost refugees weakened by hunger and travel. Pentagon officials have said. 
The food, wrapped so that one 
packet has enough for one person for one day, does not contain any animal products so as not to violate any reli­gious or cultural practices. Muslims. for example, do not eat pork. 
The yellow plastic packets are about the size and weight of a hard­cover book. They have a picture of a smiling person eating from a pouch. a stencil of an American flag, a nota­tion that they were made by Rightaway Foods of McAllen, Texas. and this greeting in English: "This food is a gift from the United States of America." The packets provide at least 2,200 ~alories per day. 
Monday, October 8, 2001 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT
page 6 

• 

Monday, October 8, 2001 page 7 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

SMC officials open 3 new exhibits at Moreau 
By MARY CAMPE 
News Writer 
Students, faculty, staff and community members joined at Saint Mary's Moreau Galleries Friday to help open three new exhibits. The exhibits included photography, paintings. sculp­tures, ceramics and col­lectibles. 
"Letters from Camp: An Exhibition Blurring the Boundaries Between Good Taste and Bad," was a collec­tion of work in the Hammes Gallery in the Moreau Arts Center. 
The exhibit presents the works of artists who use images or items associated with popular culture. such as Pez dispensers and B-movies. 
Some pieces included old movie posters and contempo­rary political aspects. One artist, Dave Huffman, had his "Art For Your Can" on display. 
This included different toilet seats decorated to display dif­ferent events, images and themes from the past in a style he stated as "inspired from Warhol's Pop Art to John Waters films." 
"This is a splendid opening," said Saint Mary's sophomore Daniela Urns. "It is very cre­ative and all gives a very dif­ferent view of what art ·can be, aside from just the more tradi­tional type." 
The Sistar Rosarie Gallery displayed the photographic works of Detroit-based artist objects. included a self-portrait and Kamil Antos. The Little Theatre Gallery different paintings displaying 
His work included altered displayed the art of Saint familiar organic objects. He photographs that display what Mary's art department chair has had exhibits nationwide, he calls "ghosts" from unlikely Bill Sandusky'. His work as well as in the Saint Mary's 
Pienovi contacted the school sure that Notre Dame would two months ago to determine follow through with what they what ac-tlons Notre Dame told me ·... It's been two continued from page 1 would take to keep Rego off months and they haven't made 
campus. Notre Dame's indeci­a decision. I am confused why endangering the Notre Dame sion makes her uneasy. they are considering it ... what and Saint Mary's community," "I would not be contacting is there to decide?" she said. she said. the media if I was 100 percent Letting Rego on campus does 
Rego 
We're not like every other high-tech company. We're hiring. 
No one told you the hardest part of being an engineer would be finding your first job. Of course, its still possible to get the high-tech work you want by joining the U.S. Air Force. You can leverage your degree immediately and get hands-on experience with some of the most sophisticated technology on earth. To find out how to get your career off the ground, call 1-800-423-USAF or visit our Web site at airforce.com. 
\.J
•:• 
U.S. AIR FORC¦ 


community. 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., and Sunday 
The three exhibitidns will from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. run through Nov. 9. The Moreau Galleries are open Contact Mary Campe at Monday through Friday from camp9575@saintmarys.edu 
more than just break a disci­sexual assault awareness at plinary decision, Notre Dame 
for Pienovi it breaks a work­ing relati,;mship she built with the University. Pi.enovi spoke at freshman orien­ "It's been two months and they haven't made a decision. I am confused why they are considering  since her attack four years ago. All her work, Pienovi fears, will be jeopar­dized if Rego is allowed on cam­ 
tation meetings about her expe­riences as a sex­ it ... what is there to decide?"  pus for Saturday's home game  
ual assault vic­ "If they don't  
tim for her last three years at Notre Dame and  Kori Pienovl sexual assauH victim  uphold the ban it will make other women  
made  a  video  more hesitant to  

that is shown to all freshman come forward in the future," so her story would not be for­she said. gotten after her graduation in 2001. She worked very closely Contact Myra McGriff at with Residence Life to improve mcgr0l8l@saintmarys.edu 
RESERVED WEEKLY COURT TIME SCHEDULING MEETING 
Any organization wishing to request weekly basketball or volleyball court time at Stepan Center for the 2001-2002 academic year must attend: 
lf(tili~J.~]~Xf/., :, Y,<;fl:dJ)fgi·· ¥1:5 
ifi~-:~);,(i)~M~
--i.i':3~.,9:-~;;AIJ-~ 
mt\~~.H1·l1if4lW l:)l}~~Iikf-t-2 
You !!!.!:!!! have a representative present at the meeting to request your times. 
Weekly court time will begin Monday, October 29. 
For more information, contact Student Activities 631-6912. 


I 
I 
II..._ 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 8, 2001 
STUDENT SENATE 
Members work for student input 
Holding dining hall forums the tables where the discussions
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
and publishing meeting agendas will be held. 
Associate News Editor 
both fit into the senate's broader "We'll be in a central location 
plan for the year, according to so people won't have to search 
Although working in different Zahm Hall senator Mark Roland. us out, which is basically the parts of the country, student sen­"One of the goals of the senate whole point," Roland explained. ators Jesse Flores and Jim Ryan this year was to do a better job of In part, the point of the each got a similar in.spiration garnering student input," said forums, according to Flores, is to from their summer internships Roland. "The senate, at its best, get student input on important -ways to increase communica­is going to be embodying the stu­campus issues. tion between the student senate dents' opinions." "The whole point is to do what and the student body. However, even though the your constituents want," said 
Flores, the senator from senate has been publishing its Flores. "We really do want to Carroll Hall, said he learned an agenda for two weeks now, no reach out to students and see important lesson from communi­students have attended meetings. what they have to say." ty members in Austin, Texas as Nevertheless, Ryan said he In addition, he added that stu­part of his summer service pro­remains optimistic that students dent government wants students ject. will come when the senate dis­to know it will listen to their 
"The community was really big cusses more controversial issues ideas and is willing to work for on getting input before it did any­than the ones they have been them. thing," Flores talking about so "A lot of service is about pres­said. "The way far this year. ence and making sure people they did that "We really want to .. Then, know you're there," said Flores, .. was through reach out to students they're proba­explaining that student input conversation... bly going to could change the way the senate 
and see what they 
So, Flores want to be handles a particular issue. began brain­have to say.·· there, and Although Flores said student storming ways they're going to government representatives run­that the student want to share ning the forums will have certain 
Jesse Flores 
senate could their opinions," questions planned out, they will
Carroll Hall senator
have conversa­Ryan said. not strictly follow those guide­tions with the • The dining lines. rest of the student body about hall forums that Flores conceptu­"The people that are staffing projects that senators were alized will begin tonight, as rep­the tables will probably have working on. He finally decided resentatives from the senate and some guided questions in mind," that one way to seek out students the office of the student body Flores said. ''But the people hav­was by holding discussion president will be in both dining ing the conversation could take it forums in the dining halls. · halls during dinner, and then in somewhere else." 
For Ryan, who represents Lafortune from 10 p.m. to mid­Ryan said that no matter what Dillon Hall, that inspiration came night. forum students use, it is impor­as he worked in the public infor­The senate will be in North tant for them to share their ideas mation office of Dupage County, Dining Hall from 5:30 to 7 p.m. with their senators. Ill. While sending local newspa­and in South Dining Hall from "The senate is a resource for pers copies of agendas for 5:45 to 7:15 p.m. pushing the views of the students upcoming county meetings, Ryan The first dining hall forum will to the administration," said said he decided that the Notre focus on faculty/student interac­Ryan. "[Student input] will help Dame senate should also let its tion. Similar forums on different us make sure what we're doing constituents know ahead of time topics will be held every Monday. is what students want." what would be discussed at its Flores said it was important for In addition, according to Ryan, weekly meetings. senators to go to places where senators can make a stronger 
"I figured, 'why shouldn't we students are, such as the dining case to the administration when be doing this?"' said Ryan. His halls and LaFortune, to make it they have a lot of student feed­idea became a reality two weeks as easy as possible for students back on a particular issue. ago, when the senate first pub­to talk to their representatives. lished its meeting agenda in The Roland added that students Contact Erin La.Ruffa at Observer. should have an easy time finding elaruffa@nd.edu 
Bowyer named department chair 
Intelligence on this topic. faculties of Duke University and
Special to The Observer 
In addition to South Florida, the Swiss Federal Technical Bowyer also has served on the Institute.
Kevin Bowyer has been appointed the Schubmehl-Prein Professor and Chair of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Notre Dame. 
He joined the Notre Dame fac­ulty in August after previously teaching and conducting research at the University of South Florida. 
Specializing in computer vision, image analysis, pattern recogni­tion, data mining and applica­tions to medical imaging, Bowyer also is heavily involved in the study of ethical issues related to computing. 
The second edition of his text­book "Ethics and Computing ­Living Responsibly in a Computerized World" was' pub­lished this year. 
He has organized a series of National Science Foundation workshops for undergraduate faculty from across the United States on the topic of teaching ethics and computing and pre­sented a keynote address on the topic at the 1999 Information Systems Education Conference. 
Bowyer also is committed to improving undergraduate com­puter science education in the· area of handling image data and has twice edited special issues of the International Journal of Pattern Recognition and Artificial 
ND officials issue tailgating citations 
gaters had more than 100
. Student Affairs, 

students in attendance.NDSP give record Excessive drinking was one of the targets of the raid.
number of tickets 
Students shutgunning and using beer funnels were sin­gled out for citations, accord­ByV. VAN BUREN GILES 
ing to Rakow. 

News Writer "So far this year, 17 stu­dents have been hauled off to Roughly 60 people were hospitals in cases of extreme given citations for underage drunkness. We sent a mes­drinking and minor in posses­sage out at the beginning of sion of alcohol Saturday, the year that underage drink­according to Notre Dame ing would not be tolerated. Security Police. We enforced this rule for the "This is by far the largest Michigan State game and amount of tickets we have doubled our efforts for the ever handed out," said Rex Pitt game," said Rakow. Rakow, director of Notre One student when adminis­Dame Security/Police. tered a breathalizer test blew Police said students from a 0.2, far exceeding the legal Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, limit of .08. Holy Cross and neighboring "He was obviously drunk so high schools were issued cita­we took him into custody to tions for tailgating and other monitor him for his own well drinking related activities. being," Rakow said. Alumni were also cited and in The push to curtail under­some cases arrested for disor­age drinking is part of a joint derly conduct. effort among law enforcemnet "This campus has a prob­agencies in the Michiana lem with alcohol abuse," said community. South Bend, Rakow. "Student Affairs, Indiana Excise, Notre Dame working through the ND and St. Joseph county Police Security/Police Department, were all invovled in the joint will do everything in its coalition to deter students power to enforce the laws from tailgating. pertaining to those students Rakow and 20 other officers under and above the legal age took part in the crackdown. for drinking alcoholic bever­In some cases, students lied ages. to police thinking that a lack While many students and of affiliation with the fans consider tailgating syn­University would save them onomous with football, Du from the laws governing the Lac, the guide to sudent life school. police said. at Notre Dame, states that, Those who lied were cited "No student, student organi­for further offenses and were zation, or University housing given tickets involving the facility may organize or spon­Indiana state court system. sor tailgaters on campus or "We will not tolerate stu­on any adjacent fields or dents lying to offices of the parking lots at any time for law. Students should under­the purpose_ of serving alco­stand that they in actuality holic beverages." have it easier as the fines This weekend, this rule was they receive usually only enforced more rigorously involve residence life infrac­than in the past. tions, which are not as seri­Minor in possesion was the ous as the breaking of most popular citation, but Indiana state laws," said tickets were also given for Rakow. disorderly conduct and public drunkness. Contact V. Van Buren Giles at Police said that some tail-giles.6@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Undergraduate Students can earn 16 or more course credits. 
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY'S
B.·
.. 
. 
-: .: 
-
,..... ,,'. . 

Earth Systems Science and Astronomy programs are offered for Science and Non-science majors at Columbia University Biosphere 2 campus near Tucson, Arizona. 
Semester programs: 16 or more credits January--May and . September~December-2002.....·. 
f1,~•t\;:.J\f,;J.i,t~!f~,~~~~~~i/ ·•''··'·~ 
t;• >~/:.'1:.-.;iUtih,eise1~semest · 
f~ft}i//: :~i~??: ·"<: ;:~ ·::::::,:-../,:-'~-;-::.-;f;:_. -:>.•:.. .·,: .·· -: ';~t.\ .If.·~ 
,,. . . .· ----APR~Y'.;,NOW' ....,,Nte,,,o;J.'.'••~·~-..........-.--.......~ 
' --·: ·• · --•. · '.r.:. -, · -· ~ .... •,.::r512 :-'.·• ALL PROGRAMS TAUGHT/ . .:· .a -J;,i:. ,.'-.' BY COLUMBIA. FACULTY! . 
Visit Biosphere 2 at www.bio2.edu/education (BOO) 992-4603 
>.:t::. -­

Monday, October 8, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Belles wrap up Pride Week 
By KATIE RAND 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students joined together to celebrate their College as Saint Mary's Pride Week ended Saturday. The administration was pleased with this year's student involvement, and deemed the week a success. 
During Pride Week, students joined together for many dif­ferent events with the intent to display and strengthen school pride. Events ranged from a pep rally to ghost sto­ries. 
Held on Wednesday, the pep rally honored all fall athletes and students participated in various events to increase class spirit. Classes battled against each other in tug o'wars, wearing blue and white in support of the College. 
"I thought the turnout was awesome for this school," said Adrienne Dorbish, school spir­it chair of Student Activities Board. "Some great spirit and pride came out, especially from the junior class." 
"The juniors won the spirit competition, having the best signs and most spirit overall at the rally," said Alison Joseph, junior class president. "So, our entire class will be getting a pizza party for our efforts." 
Following the pep rally, stu­dents told ghost stories in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. Students currently writing a book of Saint Mary's ghost stories started the ses­sion off, followed by other stu­dents with stories of haunt­ings in LeMans and Holy Cross, the two oldest resi­dence halls on campus. 
Other events scheduled for the week included a cookout and movie night. The Reidinger Alumnae House was also open for tours for students who had never been inside. 
The final event of Saint Mary's Pride Week was co­hosting the Notre Dame pep rally Friday before Saturday's football game against the Pittsburgh Panthers. Students wearing their navy blue Saint Mary's pride T-shirts walked to the JACC as a group, and took up almost an entire sec­tion. 
..I was very pleased with the turnout; we had a great show­ing. We could tell when they announced us that we were really welcomed by the other dorms here," Dorbish said. "Especially by Knott when they cheered 'Knott loves SMC chicks.' It was great!" 
Contact Katie Rand at rand8903@saintmarys.edu 

Holland earns Shakespeare chair 
Special to The Observer 
Peter Holland, an internationally regarded Shakespearean scholar and director of The Shakespeare Institute at Stratford-upon-Avon, England, has been appointed to the McMeel Chair in Shakespeare Studies at Notre Dame. 
Holland's primary appointment will be in the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre, and he will have a concurrent appointment in the Department of English. He also will serve as director of Actors from the London Stage. He will join the faculty in fall 2002. 
"Peter Holland's appointment ensures that the University's Shakespeare Initiative will con­tribute significantly to Shakespeare perfor­mance and scholarship in North America," said Mark Roche, I. A. O'Shaughnessy Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Holland. also a professor of Shakespeare Studies at the University of Birmingham, England, is a textual scholar whose edition of "A Midsummer Night's Dream" is considered one of finest in modern times. 
He also is admired as one of the central fig­ures in performance-oriented Shakespearean criticism, and was one of the first critics to see the central importance of particular actors to the Restoration dramatists' art of composition. 
In addition to his Shakespeare scholarship, Holland is considered a pioneer in Restoration theatre. His book "The Ornament of Action" has served for almost 20 years as one of the most important and influential works in that field. 
"Holland is remarkable for his outreach and visibility beyond the academy, for his being one of the creators of the field of theatre studies, and for his understanding of centuries of dra­matic performance, reaching even to contem­porary film," Roche said. "The appointment should draw international attention to Notre Dame and will be a perfect fit for our develop­ing focus on the performing arts as well as our emphasis on medieval and Renaissance litera­ture." 
Holland's wife, Romana Huk, will join the English faculty as an associate professor. Huk specializes in modern and contemporary British poetry, including Black British poetry. 
The McMeel Chair in Shakespeare Studies was established last year by alumnus John P. McMeel and his family. 
A South Bend native and 1957 graduate with a degree in business, McMeel is the chairman of Andrews McMeel Universal, the parent orga­nization of Universal Press Syndicate and Andrews McMeel Publishing. He also is presi­dent of the board of the Andrews McMeel Universal Foundation. 
McMeel has been a member of the advisory council for Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters since 1997. 
Reporter critiques terrorist coverage 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
For veteran journalist Bill Carter, the chief television correspondent for The New York Times, the Sept. 11 ter­rorist attacks played out like fiction on TV. 
"Clearly there were times on television when people were reporting this and they had a lot of trouble even get­ting it out," Carter told a DeBartolo Hall audience in a lecture Friday. "What imme­diately struck me was the incredible unreality." 
The University's Department of Film, Television and 
tions. They need to get back to their dispassionate mode." 
He also criticized media sensationalism of recent sto­ries about chemical and bio­logical warfare related to anthrax. 
In the wake' of U.S. strikes on Afghanistan Sunday, some of Carter's words proved prophetic. 
In describing media cover­age of Americans' reaction to the Sept. 11 attacks, Carter 

•
said he was surprised by how patient the public has been. 
"I think people want to act, but they don't want another 2,000 terrorists coming after us," he said. "But until there's action, the story is 
going to be 

Theatre spon­incomplete."
"The TV news is
sored the lec­However the ture, "America in basically doing conflict the Aftermath: wall-to-wall unfolds, it will Television Since continue to
coverage. We 're
9/11," to discuss dominate tele­
broadcast cover­going to see this vision news 
age of last for a long time. broadcasts, . month's terrorist according to
There's never been
strikes in New Carter. 
York and a story this big. " "The TV Washington. news is basi­Carter, a 1971 cally doing
Bill Carter
Notre Dame wall-to-wall
New York Times reporter
graduate, coverage," he 
praised televi­sion coverage and networks' cooperation immediately fol­lowing the attacks. 
"Everyone did some very interesting independent cov­erage," Carter said. "It was pretty responsible for the most part and mostly con­trolled." 
Carter criticized some cov­erage as misleading and unusually biased. The press was even-handed in its approach to covering Arab Americans and Muslims but failed in other areas, he said. 
"There's been such a patri­otic fervor in the country, and journalists got caught up in that too," Carter said. "They've abandoned their usual skepticism. I think as days go on, reporters need to revert to their usual posi-
Please use the Special
t-,,;--.~11:1aSavings invitati~n and get
~ ~~ to know us. You II be pleased with the qualitya0~ and service we provide, and 
we will do our best to 
merit your confidence and 
patronage. 
we J1one to-sec vo u s (} o n . 
.I

289-5080 l 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. ·------· ,.------.. ,-------· r------, ...------,
I I I I I I
I fc I

,10% off, I ~26 I I 59 I I ~15 I : ~69 : 
I I I I 1 Co or, Cut• I I , Hi lite, Cut• I Aveda I I Cut & I 1 &Style ' I Men's I 1 and 1 
I Retail I I Style I : 1 Process : HC :.. ______Style .,:
I I I I ._ ______ ..
~------.a
·------"' ·------· 
NE'\'\' 

Valid with the following stylists only: 
CLIENTS

Sarah, Vicki, Karol,Nechole, & Mirance 
ONLY 

Must be presented to Receptionist before services are perforn1ed (Certain restrictions apply) offer EX11ires 
·10/26/01 

Not valid for spiral perms, long or tinted hair add ~10. No other discounts apply, Open some evenings, ATRIA SALON reserves the right to refuse ,;erv1,e to any client whose hair cond1t1on 1s unswtabl•. 
said. "We're going to see this for a long time. There's never been a story this big." 
Carter is author of "The Late Shift," a book that details the battle between Jay Leno and David Letterman to host NBC's "Tonight Show." Carter's book "Monday Night Mayhem" chronicles the hey­day of ABC's "Monday Night Football." 
He wrote movie screen­plays for both books and 
received  an Emmy nomina­ 
tion  for  "The  Late  Shift"  
script.  .. Monday  Night  

Mayhem" is scheduled to air in early 2002 on cable net­work TNT. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu 

' 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Monday, October 8, 200 I 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 
A.ssT. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Kerry Smith Pat Peters 
NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley 
• 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 
FAX.............................................................631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................631-5313 NEWS.................... : ..................................... 631-5323 
observer .Qbsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINJSTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:llobservtr.nd.tdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online featutts for spe­
and rates of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must indude contact information. 
Qiustions regarding Obsaverpolicies should bt dirrct­td to Editor in Chief Mikt Connolly. 
I 
I 



Fools on the left, jokers 


on the right 
I went to a peace rally last weekend. I left convinced that for the present cri­sis the anti-capitalist left and the reli­gious right are utterly irrelevant. 
The rally was held on a beautiful autumn day in Washington, D.C. Given the setting, Scott Flipse the sun and the music this should have been a fes-Pro Bono tive crowd. It was not. It was very angry. Speaker after speaker blamed the massacres of Sept. 11 on the racist, imperialist and fascist policies of the United States. 
It got so bad that when a representa­tive of the National Organization of Women (NOW) got up and spoke about the Taliban's human rights abuses, the crowd began to boo. One young man near me waved a placard that read "America: Get a Clue." 
The rally also attracted a sizable counter-protest. That crowd was not as diverse or eclectic, everyone seemed to be either dressed in red, white and blue or waving something with those colors. Nonetheless, they were just as angry. If the police had not separated the two groups there would have been ·bloodshed when-anarchists set fire to a dozen American flags. 
In all the chaos, what caught my eye was a small group of 10 people gath­ered under a seven-foot wooden cross. I walked over and asked what they were dofng. The man holding the cross said they came to pray for America's repentance. The women next to him added that she believed the attacks were God's judgment on the nation. She said she agreed with the Reverends Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson who blamed the attacks on abortionists, gays, lesbians and pagans. 
I left the rally appalled by what I heard that day. I couldn't decide what was worse: the vile moral equivalence of the peace protesters who equated terrorists with President Bush or the confused self-righteousness of those who seemed to know the secret will of God. The anti-capitalist left and the religious right stand at the opposite ends of the political spectrum. Ironically, both agree that the attacks of Sept. 11 are judgments for the nation's immorality. They are both wrong. 
On the left, the national sins include racism, colonialism and oppression. The monster of terrorism came about, they claim, as a response to America's economic and military might. Thus, the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon can be explained as an act of resistance against the imperialist power. I heard such logic at the rally and read it from left-wing luminaries such as Noam Chomsky, Susan Sontag and Michael Moore. 
The anti-capitalist left has become apologists for Osama bin Laden and his Taliban protectors. Most of us already know that the Taliban are brutal toward women, kill homosexuals, hate Jews and want to exterminate even more innocent American citizens. Let's face it, in a perfect world, bin Laden wants to replicate the Taliban across the Middle East. Given the facts. can anyone on the left make a convincing claim that the Taliban are morally equivalent or superior to the United States? Can the evil of Sept. 11 be absolved by the fact that bin Laden opposes corporate globalism and United States military power? I think not. 
On the right, Falwell and Robertson make the mistake of equating America with God's chosen people. When the two television preachers criticize all "who have tried to secularize America," the underlying assumption is that there once was a "Christian America," when it met with God's approval as his chosen nation. 
As a historian I object to this charac­terization. From the beginning the · American republic was filled with 
injustices that surely deserved God's judgment. I agree that America has had an exceptional history -it has been the metaphorical city on a hill. 
But it was never a Christian nation. Nor has God chosen America for spe­cial favors. His chosen people are no 
longer drawn from one nation or state. 
Falwell's vision of church and state is historically wrong and theologically 
unsound. 
Falwell and Robertson compound the problems by blaming the terrorists attacks on those whom they have bat­tled over social policy. Assigning evil to one's political enemies is not new but the transparency here is so obvious it is absurd. The figureheads of the reli­gious right have again mixed morality and politics in the wrong amounts. 
As clergy they should spend their time ministering to the suffering and spreading the Gospel. As citizens they should be helping to create public poli­cies and institutions that protect the innocent and punish those who take vengeance into their own hands. 
On this last task both left and right fall way short. In their indictments of the nation's morality neither provide just and constructive solutions for the present crisis. And, in the process, both excuse the terrorist action by denying the basic idea of all morality: that indi­viduals are responsible for their own actions and should be judged accord­ingly by all responsible citizens. 
Scott Flipse is associate director of Notre Dame's Washington Semester and a Pew Fellow at the Brookings Institution. lie can be reached at sflipse@nd.edu. For more information on the Washington Semester. please visit the website at www.nd.edu/-semester. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Jason McFarley Kelly Hager Kevin Suhanic 
Sports 
Katie McVoy 
Viewpoint 
Kurt Bogaard 
• 

Scene 
C. Spencer Begg: 
Graphics 
Katie McKenna 
Production 
Chris Federico 
Lab Tech 
Peter Hichardson 
POLL QUESTION 
Is the administration unfair to, Outreach ND by not giving the organization official club status? Please e-mail vievvpoint.1@nd.edu by Friday to report your answer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"'My country, right or wrong' is a thing no patriot would think ofsaying except in a desperate case. It is like saying, 'My mother, drunk or sober.'·· 
G.K. Chesterton writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, October 8, 2001 page 11 
I'm in a New 
York state of 
mind 
I didn't want to write about the Sept. 11 attacks again. 
A lot of people have told me I shouldn't. After all, we're supposed to get about the business of the country again. We have to move on. And there is other news: the Tennessee Greyhound bus attack and the downed Russian airliner have exploded into the headlines 
because of possible correlations to the World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks and the death of a Florida man due to anthrax has a lot of people frightened about the possibility of bioterrorism. The cop in Cincinnati who shot an 

unarmed black teen was acquitted, while Andrea Yates was found competent to stand trial for the murders of her five children. And there's also Ripken's retirement, Bonds' 73rd and the Irish finally winning a game. 
But even now, nearly a month later. those things seem to carry less meaning. Not only will the Sept. 11 attack be the major news story for the foreseeable future, it will likely be the most important event in our lives. I don't feel right just writing one column about it \vhen I spent three on the presidential elec­tion. 
Mike Marchand 
Undistinguished Alumnus 
Furthermore, this event has struck us on so many levels. To be quite honest. I'm amazed I could summon the journalistic objectivi­ty to write my last column. For several hours, I just turned off the fact that 6,000 people died on that day. I don't think I really dealt with the emotional aspect until last week when I was driven to tears in the middle of the DeBartolo computer cluster by stories and images of incredible sadness and incredible heroism. 
My last column was what I thought. This one will be what I feel. And since my feelings have often been spontaneous and inconsis­tent, I apologize in advance because my writing probably won't be very cohesive. Here goes. 
I've been to New York City once. I was there for 20 minutes. I had just turned 13, and we were on a family vacation train trip to the Northeast. There was a 20 minute layover between the train com­ing from Niagara Falls and the train headed for Boston. So we decided we'd leave Penn Station, just for a few minutes, and see as much of the greatest city in the world as we could. Since the day was foggy, it wasn't much. Our nickel-tour guide was a helpful New York policeman who was guiding pedestrian traffic at 32nd Street and 7th Avenue. He pointed out to us the clearly evident Empire State Building, about three blocks east. 
That was about it. 
I'd always wanted to go back to New York, just to see if it was everything that it's advertised to be. But I no longer need to. I've seen the proof on television. Countless acts of selflessness, on scales large and small, were covered by news cameras. And this is from the city that's always supposed to have an attitude, a chip on its shoulder, where the unofficial motto, as Rudy Giuliani told the world on David Letterman's program, is "We can kick your city's ass." 
But the wonderful response has not been limited to the five bor­oughs. In Oklahoma City, a place where the wounds of terrorism have only just begun to heal, the population quickly mobilized, sending food and medical supplies. A group of children arranged a donation of teddy bears to children in New York who lost parents to the terror attacks. 
We've all seen the united American response. But that same sym­pathy and solidarity was shown internationally. The picture I saw that moved me the most came from Berlin, where a youth with a bright green mohawk and a dark trench coat was kneeling in tears. 
I need to stop myself here, because as I write. news reports are coming in about a joint U.S./Great Britain missile attack against the Al-Qaeda network and the Taliban government. Those black screens with green blobs we all watched during the Gulf War are back again. A multinational ground force is also being assembled in nearby Uzbekistan, where they may work with the Afghan Northern Alliance group as well as other anti-Taliban organiza­tions. 
But after the airstrikes, we will, at great risk to our own forces, provide emergency supplies to the Afghan people through airlifts. Because that's the kind of people we are. In times of despair, such as Sept. 11, we found hope. Now, we are giving hope to others. I will continue to watch, and pray, and hope that whatever happens ends quickly, if for no other reason that so those other events that happen to us have a little more meaning. 
Mike Marchand graduated in August 2001 with a degree in English. His e-mail address is Marchand.3@nd.edu. "Undistinguished Alumnus" appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
GUEST COLUMN 

We must remember the innocent people of 
• Afghanistan 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
Three weeks later, and yep, terrorists still blew up the World Trade Center. I know it, you know it and rm not going to pretend there's another topic in my mind that I think is worth talking about right now. Yes, dining hall food is bad -but thousands of people just Scott Strand died in New York. Sure, student "revolutionaries" are lovably goofy -Brown Dailythousands still died in 
Herald 
New York. David Horowitz ran another inflammatory ad? Whatever. The entire island of Manhattan smells like burnt plastic. 
I didn't know anyone involved, thank God, and my prayers go out to all of those who did. Involved or not, we can all sense the 
anger and pain in the air. It's not ---­
just in New York, it's every­where; it's floating around the country like a thick fog. It's been depressing Wall Street into a recession. Inspiring racist Arab slurs. Dispatching the Navy. Launching planes. And interest­ingly, raising American flags. Bringing con­cerned friends and MA family together. ... \ OC . 
.,( :'"" -..£\..,,, ,,.k_·,

Silencing partisan bick­'Y __,._,.."J?l'· ,-r ering. Increasing hug­·F·!~ \ 
Afghanistan's despairing population has left the nation in the past few years. 
The point is that 26 million starving, beaten impoverished Afghanis didn't crash planes into the World Trade Center. They're too busy trying not to die. An elite, wealthy ruling class who has the luxury time enough to play evil games did this. My guess is 50 people, 100 tops, were behind crashing those planes. 
Those 50 will not be on the front lines man­ning the machine guns. They will be fanned by attractive, scantily clad attendants and eat peeled grapes while we pour bullets into innocent Afghanis who they've forced to fight for their insane cause. More innocents will die. An eye for an eye for an eye for an eye for an ... until the whole world is blind. I guess a good euphemism for it would be "infi­
nite justice." 

ging rates across the . '.f ......... ~"}' J11',!;l nation. The anger and ·~"il/lJ. •..­
f{.· 

paranoia in the nation is l · '~\ · so intertwined with love J . · ( and hope you can't pull Ji them apart, and it's confus­......,-<f.V""'~~-.:~ 1 
ing. , :\ 1 "send aid," sending doctors and I'm not the only one who's Ch\\ 
t):..::,, bandages to patch the bullet holes confused. Apparently the President, we put there in the first place? We 
with most of the nation behind him, 
thinks bombing Afghanistan into the stone 
age will be a heroic act -somehow gratify­
ing our anger while bolstering our hope. 
Every day the country is flooded with news 
articles on how the United States plans to 
wage war on the Taliban, bring Osama Bin 
Laden and the Taliban to justice. Taliban, Taliban, Taliban. 
The Taliban are the elite, wealthy rulers of Afghanistan. They have the power there, they have the money. If we go to war with them, how likely do you think it is they'll be on the front lines, shooting at us out of the windows of their Mercedes-Benzes, instructing their personal servants to throw grenades, tying tourniquets with Versace neckties? In case you couldn't tell from the heavy•handed sar­casm of the last question, I think it's about as likely to happen as Osama getting seats behind home plate at a Mets game. 
If we make war on the Taliban, they will send out their poor, their young, their help­less to defend their bloated Jabba the Hutt­like regime. The life of your everyday Joe Schmoe Afghan is ... well, awful. Average per capita income is about $280 a year. The oppression of women might as well be the national sport. Women can't attend school or go out in public without a male relative. In fact, there was a particularly exemplary week when 300 women were beaten every day for "dress code violations." The life expectancy is 46 for men, 45 for women. Television is banned as moral corruption. Music is classified as "suspect" -I hear the "Blink 182 rawks Kabul" concert didn't go so well. According to the BBC, a third of 
OK. So, say we manage to kill enough people to clear a path to the palaces of the Taliban. Say 
1 
,j
· '1 1,
••'i 

we wade through the bodies, march into bedchambers and haul the bloated, evil lead­ers off for trial or even exe­cute them then and there. 
Then, America's righteous crusade being done, we ride triumphantly into the sunset. And try not to trip over the starving, wounded masses we 
I . k

· eave m our wa e. '' Would we just leave, : and allow another cruel, J oppressive and most likely ..... anti-American regime to < rise? Do we transform ~ Afghanistan into a United States puppet state? Do we 
don't have a long term game plan here besides "kill Taliban." We've got to start thinking this through, or we'll have a lot more to deal with down the line. I'm really having trouble understanding what the gov­ernment is trying to do with this, besides killing many, many innocent Afghans so we can kill approximately 100 Taliban so that this presumably never happens again. 
When "kill indiscriminately for justice" has become part of our national dialogue, what happens? Will it stop at Afghanistan? We have a history as. a nation of taking human life less seriously than we should -think of the Pacific War, Hiroshima and Nagasaki; think of firebombing in the Philippines; think of Vietnam and My Lai. We have a history of killing thousands of innocents to eliminate a few hundred enemies. 
So, my thesis: I am for justice. I am for the elimination of the Taliban. I am not for indis­criminate killing. I believe we are a suffi­ciently advanced nation to figure out a way to put an end the Taliban without a bloodbath, without making a horrific situation worse. America is a wonderful, well-educated, ultra­modern, strong spirited nation -if anyone can see the course to a proper end to this mess, we can. Let's not sell ourselves, and the world, short and take the easy way out. 
This column just appeared in the Oct. 5 issue ofthe Brown University newspaper, the Brown Daily Herald and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 





us 

page 12 Monday, October 8, 2001 
Imagine all the people showering 
•

1n peace 
Call me a snob, call me an elitist, call me a pampered American; it just seems to me that if one country has figured out how to do something well, then every­one else should take a lesson from it. 
I know, I know. Cultural differences, preserving ancient traditions, blah blah blah. But let's look at this logically. 
Take for example a hypothetical island nation named Napaj. If Napaj were to build fast cars, nice TVs and quali­ty stereos, we'd all probably buy them, right? 
And if another nation, Ynamreg, spent years of its history developing great beer, we'd obviously collect its steins, flock like hooligans to its fall festivals and toast to its health. 
So if another nation, let's •call them "A Bunch of States Situated Between Canada and Mexico," were to develop a system of good water pressure, you'd think that other countries would say, "Hmm, toilets that flush? Showers that work? What a novel concept!" 
Wrong. I hate to generalize (no, that's not true, I just have to throw in the disclaimer before I make a bold, sweeping statement). but it seems that most of Western Europe missed that memo. 
Now I understand why the natives have earned the unfortunate stereotype of not bathing frequently. It just takes too much blood, sweat and tears to go to the trouble of daily cleaning when your morning routine consists of praying that the water will momentarily pause between Arctic cold and scalding hot and that you won't douse the entire bathroom with the spray (since shower curtains are unheard of), that you begin to appreciate the allure of the sponge bath. 
I don't really want to complain (much). But it just seems to me that as a global community, we need to come together and share our technological advances. A big conference to iron out the kinks in this alleged movement towards progress. France could bring the wine, Italy could bring the food, and Britain, well, Britain could just come and inquire about dental care. 
It sounds ridiculous at first, but think how much we could still learn from each other. Spain would convince the rest of the world of the wonders of siesta. France could show the workaholics how relaxed a 38-hour work week can be. 
And maybe we would finally listen to Japan, oops, Napaj, about how to improve our educational system to the point where high school graduates would actually be able to locate their country on a map. How 21st century of us! 
Alright, maybe it will never happen. After all our world has never known a time of such peace and harmony that would give us the free time to argue over who manufactures the best tennis shoes. 
But John Lennon put it best: imagine. Imagine if everyone drove on the right s-ide of the road and you didn't have to fear for your life every time you crossed the street in London. Imagine if every country learned to bake bread from the French, and we could all walk to work with $.80 baguettes tucked under our arms. 
Imagine if we all boycotted the monstrosity that is McDonald's. United, we could make way for good and real food across the world. Globalism could become a beautiful thing. 
In all seriousness though, the idea of unifying and improving our global com­munity is exactly what drove the European Union to develop the Euro. After New Year's rolls around this winter, the Euro will be the legal currency for 11 coun­tries: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands. Portugal and Spain. 
Needless to say, each country has faced its own uproar over whether or not to join the Euro train, and France is no exception. All menus and advertisements must now show prices in both francs and Euros. 
Starting Jan. 1, francs will no longer be legal tender. Old men gripe about it in cafes and newspapers bemoan the loss of the good ol' franc, but the change will make life simpler in many ways. 
Traveling throughout Europe will become a breeze -one stop at an ATM will be all you need. And Americans will no longer have to suffer through all that long division when paying for pasta in Italy or Guiness in Ireland, since the Euro is roughly equivalent to $1. 
Of course, all that pretty foreign money will become nothing but collector's items, but the Euro will make commerce and travel within the European Union infinitely easier. 
It will be interesting to see where the new currency takes Europe. Will it become the massive, unified European state that some fear? Or will some coun­tries regret their decision to join? In any case, the Euro seems to be hinting at a new age in Europe. Maybe decent showers aren't far behind. 
Laura Kelly is a French and English major who can't believe she actually miss­es the showers in Walsh Hall. She can be reached at lkelly@nd.edu. French Connection appears Mondays in Scene. 



FITpresents its first main 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS Scene Editor 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre is almost finished preparing its first main­stage show this year, "How the Other Half Loves" The play, written by the highly acclaimed British playwright Alan Ayckbourn, is a fast-paced farce about lies, infideli­ty and social class. 
"This year we want­ed to do either a com­edy or a mystery. We life and is seeking thrills with Bob. 
Bob and Fiona's affair remains a secret until one evening when they both return early in the morning. When confronted by their respec­tive spouses both lie. Bob says that he is counseling another member of the firm, William Detweiler played by freshman Ferrell Datcher, on his marriage and Fiona claims to be doing the same for \Villiam's wife Mary, played by senior Rachel 
Jones. 
Of course, 
both Frank 
and Teresa in 

choose a comedy "When you do comedy, the name of because it's something being helpful
you have to put yourself
we haven't done in a invite the
out there, out on a limb,
couple of years," Siiri Detweilers Scott, the show's and it takes a lot of over for a din­director, said. ner party. The 
courage to do that. " 
The play follows three days in the life of Bob and Teresa Phillips, played by sophomore Tom Connor and senior Babs Smith. Bob, an underling in an equivocal firm, has been unhappy with his marriage for quite some time. He has been hav­ing an affair with his boss' wife to escape his messy house and neurot­ic wife. His home life is a constant screaming match. 
Meanwhile, Bob's boss Frank Foster and his wife Fiona, played by seniors Brendan P. Geary and Katie Weil, have the all-too-perfect marriage. Their affluent pleas­antries hide their lost passion. Fiona is bored with the humdrum 
Detweilers, ambitious but Siiri Scott clumsy social Director climbers, can hardly refuse. Of course, the fireworks only 
begin there. 
"How the Other Half Loves" is a typical British farce complete with machine-gun fire bantering, slam­ming doors and countless props. Untypical is the way the set is designed. The play actually takes place in two places at the same time. With two separate scenes going on right on top of each other. 
The set is designed in such a way that it is both a modest and affluent household at the same time. 
"We have lots of halves of things. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 



Monday, October 8, 200 I 
page 13 


nstage show ofthe year, "How the Other HalfLoves" 
keep the plotline clear. Giving such Connor's seething rage. Both Smith energy pays off in the end thot1gh. The and Connor lead the show's furious added benefit of the bizarre time-shift pace, they are the batteries that is that it gives the audience a unique charge the cast. The always talented perspective on the action on stage. Weil is a master of playing off of 
"The audience knows more than .a lot Geary's carefully constructed idiocy of the characters do, which is really with her deliciously well-timed sardon­fun for the audience because they get ic jabs. to see the characters find out what "This is a really fast-paced play. It's they already know," Weil said. all about timing," Weil said. 
The pace of the show accelerates as Scott thinks the actors have grown a the story progresses bringing both sto­lot from participating in this show. ries together in an interesting way. "They have a tremendous amount of The zenith of show courage to do things appears when the that they don't nor­Detweilers attend mally do. When you both dinner parties do a comedy you simultaneously on have to put your self
"This is a really fast­

stage. Although the out there, out on a 
scene is technically paced play. It's all about limb, and it takes a difficult the talented the timing." lot of courage to do cast pulls it off nicely. that," Scott said of 
Aside from techni­her cast. cal demands, this Katie Weil "How the Other show also gives the Actor Half Loves" will be cast tough characters performed in to play. Washington Hall 
"A lot of the chal­from vVednesday. lenge has been in through Saturday at being a real person 7:30 p.m. and on as opposed to a character ... These are Sunday at 2: 30 p.m. Tickets are $10 really fairly normal people and it's for general admission, $9 for senior hard to portray that like they're up on citizens, and $7 for all students. stage rather than actors up on stage," Reserved seats and are available at the Connor said. door or in advance from the LaFortune 
Of course, the real key to any farce is Student Center Box Office. To reserve timing and pacing and this show has it tickets with a MasterCard or Visa down to a science. Smith and Connor's orders, call (219) 631-8128. 
For example, [the] two different metaphor for its underlying themes banter comes at breakneck speed and 
[apartments] will have a piece of furni­particularly in regard to social classes. serves as a counterpoint to Geary and 
ture where half of the furniture Scott feels that the affair is particularly Weil's overtly banal presentation. 
belongs to (one couple] and interesting. Smith delivers her lines with a Contact C. Spencer Beggs at 
the other half belongs [to the "Normally, when you see shrewish intensity only matched by beggs.3@nd.edu. 
other couple], so that we How the this kind of situation, you see emphasize a things that Other Half woman, are differ-L who's in 
ent but still oves less of a the same," . Washington position Scott said. Hall 0 f 
C h r i s power, Sinnot, the . 7:3op.m. being set design-Thursday through attracted e r , is a S t d . ht to power
senior at a ur ay mg ' 
and hav­Notre Dame 2:00 p.m. on ing an this year Sunday affair and only with the 
the third . $10 for general 
guy on student to admission, $9 for top. In design a set this case
senior citizens
for a main­it's the stage pro­and $7 for all stu­woman duction in on top
dents. Call (219)
the last 22 having years. His 631-81-28 for an affair s e t reservations. with the enhances guy on the way the bot-that the t O m 
I ". 
actors separate the Scott said. two scenes. The set The intense completes the nature of playing strange duality that two scenes at is characteristic of once demands a this show. lot of the actors. It 
The play uses the requires them to division of the set constantly engage and scenes as a the audience to 



( 
\ 
l­
\ 
. 
I 
The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 8, 2001 
NFL 
Williams carries Saints to victory over Vikings 
of eight third downs in the defensive line in 1984 when to Dennis Northcutt, whose history to produce the winning
Associated Press 
game and gained just 31 yards Flutie completed his "Hail first catch of the season was a touchdown with 6:45 to go. rushing. Mary" for Boston College, had big one. Then on third-and-10, Mike Alstott. filling in for 
NEW ORLEANS The Saints got three of their to sweat out the final seconds Couch made his best throw, injured running back Warrick 
The game plan was simple. six sacks of Culpepper in the Sunday before Cleveland hitting Johnson for 13 yards on Dunn, found an opening in the 
Give Ricky Williams the ball first quarter and intercepted defeated San Diego. a perfectly timed out pattern. left side of Green Bay's top­
and turn the defense loose. him once. By halftime, New Flutie nearly rallied the The duo hooked up again ranked defense and lumbered 
That and John Carney's five Orleans had held the football Chargers (3-1), throwing two two plays later as Couch 39 yards for the touchdown 
field goals lifted the New almost eight minutes more long passes that fell incom­lobbed his TD pass to Johnson, with help from two blocks by 
Orleans Saints to a 28-15 vic­than Minnesota. plete into crowds in the end who made contact as he went Bucs receiver Keyshawn 
tory over the Minnesota But it was Culpepper's arm zone, and the Browns (3-1) over cornerback Alex Molden Johnson. 
Vikings on Sunday. that kept the Vikings in the hung on. for the catch. The Packers (3-1) led 10-7 
Williams ran for 136 yards game. Flutie was upstaged by Tim Flutie got the ball back with after Favre threw a 67-yard, 
and a touchdown and had five Culpepper engineered a four­Couch and the Browns, who 1:10 left at his own 17 with second-quarter touchdown 
receptions for 42 yards. He play drive, throwing passes of came up with some early sea~ one more chance. pass to Bill Schroeder, and 
averaged 4.5 yards a carry, 20 and 29 yards before hitting son magic of their own. On fourth-and-10, Flutie Tampa Bay's only turnover set 
helping the Saints (2-1) chew Randy Moss for a 29-yard Couch threw a 19-yard TD scrambled for 11 yards and up Ryan Longwell's 35-yard 
up 32 minutes and 34 seconds touchdown late in the first pass to Kevin Johnson with then made two completions for field goal in the third quarter. 
and keep the ball away from quarter to put Minnesota up 7-1:15 left, giving the Browns 27 yards, getting the ball to The Packers, who have 
the Vikings (1-3). 6. their first three-game winning Cleveland's 45. outscored opponents 59-7 in 
New Orleans harassed Williams erased that lead streak since returning to the As Flutie's final pass hit the the second half. nearly made Minnesota's offense through­with a 1-yard scoring run to league in 1999. grass, the Browns stormed the three-point lead stand with out, forcing the Vikings into make it 12..7, The Saints failed Under first-year coach Butch onto the field in celebration help from a passive Tampa intentional grounding and on a 2-point conversion. Davis, the Browns matched along with 73,108 Cleveland Bay offense that rarely tested delay of game calls. Williams' score was the first their entire win total from last fans who suffered through two Green Bay with deep passes 
What looked as if it would be time New Orleans managed a season and became the NFL's years of atrocious football. and had difficulty running the a 52-yard touchdown by Cris touchdown in the first half this biggest surprise after four ball until Alstott broke his TD Carter in the second quarter season. weeks. run.
Buccaneers 14, Packers 10 
was thwarted when Saints cor­The Saints led 15-7 at half­The Browns' swarming Keyshawn Johnson had nine
Tampa Bay beat Green Bay
nerback Kevin Mathis stripped time.. defense made it tough on receptions for 82 yards for
and ended the NFL's longest
Carter on the 3. Safety Sammy Culpepper, who completed Flutie, who when he wasn't Tampa Bay. Brad Johnson was
winning streak at seven
Knight recovered the ball in 23 of 34 passes for 332 yards, rolling out of the pocket to 23-for-29 for 184 yards, but
games. They also answered
the end zone. found Byron Chamberlain for a avoid the rush, was running most of his completions came
their doubters and regained
The New Orleans defense 19-yard touchdown late in the for cover. on short and intermediate
some of the swagger the team 
even scored a touchdown when third quarter. San Diego's quarterback got routes that drew boos from the 
lost after blowing a fourth­
Darren Howard forced Aaron Brooks was 15-of-30 roughed up all afternoon and crowd of 65,510. 
quarter lead the week before. 
Minnesota quarterback Daunte for 210 yards and one inter­was clothes-lined on a run Meanwhile, the Bucs con­
The Bucs (2-1) intercepted
Culpepper's fumble in the tliird ception. near the goal line in the fourth tained the Packers' Ahman
three of Brett Favre's passes,
quarter, and Chris Oldham ran quarter by cornerback Corey Green, who was limited to 59
' 
\ and Shelton Quarles returned 
\ it 38 yards to score. Fuller. yards rushing on 15 carries.
Browns 20, Chargers 16 one of them 98 yards for a
The Saints were so dominat­Trailing 16-13, the Browns Alstott finished with 77 vards
Butch Davis doesn't care if touchdown.
ing in the first half the Vikings got the ball with 3:52 left, and on 15 attempts for Tampa Bay.
it's another 17 years before he A struggling offense did its
had just 9 yards rushing. Couch went to work. 
sees Doug Flutie again. part, too, putting together the
Minnesota converted only one He completed a 14-yard pass
Davis, who coached Miami's longest scoring drive in team 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edir 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
5 Rooms tor rent on Football week-BMW 94 325i, 4dr, green, loaded, 1 USC: Loyal alum who missed the SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge Haven't you learned that if you don't ends. Many happy repeat cus-owner, all records, $11,000 289-lottery needs 6 USC tix. Top Dollar! in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and open your mouth around here you tomers. 2 miles north of campus 4082 Parties with the Best DJs and won't be ridiculed? 
LOST AND FOUND 
277-8340 Ask for Gary al toll free (888) 893-celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, 
Selling Varsity Club time share 1 6753 or Gehura@pegrehab.com Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to Who dat? Who dat? Who dat say LOST bookbag in South Dining Hall Lodging • Bed and Breakfast, 45 soph. wk. $9,500 StudentCity.com, call 1-800-293-dey gonna beat dem Saints? Tuesday. It's blue and white minutes from Notre Dame. T&R 272-1753 2 ND-Pitt tickets for sale. Call Ken 1443 or email Jansport with Leprechaun patch. INN Between the lakes. Kula@ 415-677-1310. sales@studentcity.com to find out Hey Mexi, Please return to Laura Lacayo 4-PH (616) 244-9084 PITT: 4 pkgs. of 2 tix + 2 nights more. Maybe if you wouldn't have sold out 4273 www .innbetweenthelakes.com accommodations ( 10/5-10/6) for WANTED U2 TICKETS your school UT would have won. 
sale. Call 277-4892. 232-0964 Spring Break with STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator. Yeah, Barry hit 73. But how good Need 6 W. Virginia Tickets. Call Promote trips on campus earn cash could Rafael Belliard have been if
WANTED
FOR RENT Tim 634-1754 and free trips. Info/Reservations he'd have played in the days of 
TICKETS 1 -800-648-4849 Andre, deflated pitching and juiced STUDENT WORK 2 WVU/ND Tix (GA) for sale www.ststravel.com balls? $14.50 Base-appt Call Kim: 634-3541 
l 
5 rooms for rent on football week• Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust. Help! Family coming in. Need WV ...ACT NOW! Guarantee the best Watch out for the one-eared rabbit ends. Many happy repeat cus-svc./sales positions (5-20hrs) tickets. Call Kerry at 243-0928 ND/PITT tickets for sale. Call spring break prices! South Padre, He and the swan are in cahoots. I'm tomers. 2 miles N. of campus. 277-Flex. around classes. Scholarships. Lindsay 634-3771 Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, pretty sure they engineered the tail­8340 Cond. apply ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE Acapulco, Florida & Madrigas. gate busts. 
f 
www.workforstudents.com/np call Have 3 pair of USC tix. Need Tenn. Reps needed. Travel free, earn M-W 12-5pm 282-2357 AM. -232-2378 Tix. Let's talk. 901-332-6735 $$$. Group discount for 6+ 800~ This weeks sign of the apocalypse: 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-P.M. • 288-2726 838-8203 / www.leisuretours.com Maryland is ranked 20th in the AP 
I 
/ PUS WANTED: Small dorm refrigerator. poll. ND didn't even get a vote. mmmrentals.com Call Katie 4-1188 Have: 4 WVU and 4 Navy tix. $300-$800 Scholarships email: mmmrentals@aol.com Need: ND-BC tix and/or cash PERSONAL Available per semester! wow -first time doing cjassifieds 
The Coffee Spot Cate on Bendix Call Bob at 219-315-8964 Looking for a job which lets you and sooooooooo far left to go. 
near Cleveland Rd. work around your school schedule? THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Part-time work available. Gorumet Need 2 BC tickets to buy/trade for 2 We have several part-time and full-Thats ok • I dont need sleep till Breakfast Inn has space available Coffee Shop. W. Virginia. SPRING BREAK time day & evening positions paying Thursday anyway for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms Call 273-2931 Call247-9811 Largest selection of Spring Break $7-$11/hr. with private baths, $80-$115, Destinations, including Cruises! we·otter the following: You think Davie's in the hot seat ­
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1-800-418­9487 
HOUSE FOR RENT: 1 )9-br $2400/month. 2) 5-br $1500/month. 
3) 4-br $1000/month. Call Bill at 532-1896. 
Turtle Creek Apt Opening 1 Br $655 276-4809 
For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house. 3 blks. from ND. Garage avail. 233­2104 
B&B 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS 247-1124 
FOR SALE 
Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen with appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254-1772 
'98 Men's Schwin Frontier 19" Mountain Bike. Like New. Call 277­8208 after 3:30 
52055 Old Post Lane Spacious 4 bdrm, 2 story on private lane in Farmington Square. 2373 SF + professionally finished base­ment. Call Jack at 280-7730. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty. 
BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 277-6619 or 273-3911 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED 
A.M. -232-2378 P.M. • 288-2726 
ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. 232-0964. 
WANTED -ND TICKETS 289-9280 
Buying some/ Selling a few extra 
N.D. Football Tickets. 219-289-8048. 
Need 2 tix, student or GA to use game. Call Noreen at 284-4417. 
Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available. www. EpicuRRean.com 1-800,231-4-FUN 
WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1­888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun­coastvacations.com 
Spring Break Insanity! WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM or call 1-800-327-6013 Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti• nations! Fifteen years experience! Wanted: Representatives and orga­nizatoins, earn top $$$, build your resume •scholarship money *Flexible Schedules *Paid vacations/holidays *Optional Saturdays *Health/Life/401 (k) •incentives/Raises *Supervisory/Mgt. Positions 1-(888) 801 -JOBS jobs@americallcorp.com Just minutes north of campus 
Hey, is it hot in here -or is it just Kerry? 
Hey, at the tailgate I met a girl -oh wait, I've never met a girl. I'm a loser. 
Props to Spencer for the pies Once again, Spencer with the connec­tions. 
how about Knott Hall football's fall from grace. Runners-up last year ... 0-3 now. 
But thats only because they won't let Rocky, Vontez, Abram, Preston, Lorenzo, Brian, and Corey play. Now that would be one awesome interhall team. 
Leanne, the "fall festival" isn't run by the cult is it? -S 
FYI: Kerry whipped Mark in MarioKart Sunday, a mere week and a half after he taught her how to play. And she didn't even need the orange smoke. Rob and Geoff, watch out, rumor has it you're next! 
And let's can the speedo idea. 

Monday, October 8, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
SWIMMING 
Irish fall short of Panthers at ND Relays 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Byline Tide 
When the head coaches from Notre Dame and Pittsburgh men's swimming teams chatted after the Notre Dame Relays Friday. Ch uk Knoles, head coach for University of Pittsburgh breathed a sigh of relief. 
Even though Pittsburgh swam its way to a 226-166 victory at the relay meet, it wasn't easily accomplished. 
The Irish nipped the Panthers' toes in several events, chasing the 2001 Big East Champions to 14 victories. But even though Pitt had a clean sweep of the meet win­ning all 11 relays, the Irish came in second in every event, with finishes as close as .50 seconds of the Panthers' times. 
..I think I held my breath more than [the swimmers] did," Knoles told Notre Dame head coach Tim Welsh. 
The Relays -a meet tradi­tionally dominated by both the men's and the women's teams -was a measuring stick for the team at the beginning of the season. While defeating Pitt wasn't a likely goal going· into the Relays, the chance to evalu­ate Big East competition early was valuable, Welsh said. 
"It clearly helps to race the conference champions early in the season," Welsh said. "The fact that several of the races were close is a wonderful sign." 
The Irish diving duo of Joseph Miller and Andy Maggio posted the Irish's only win on the day, taking first in the three-meter synchronized diving event. 
Notre Dame Women 

Friday afternoon was a double victory for the Notre Dame women's team, which chalked victories against Pittsburgh in a dual meet and then again at the relay meet. 
The Irish outswam Pittsburgh, winning easily 223-77, and win­ning 14 of 16 events. 
Fifth-year senior Carrie Nixon returned to collegiate competi­tion for the first time since spring 2000, after sitting out last season due to a shoulder injury. Her first college competi­tion since the NCAA Championships a year and a half ago, Nixon won four races in the dual meet and posted more victories on two relay teams. 
Nixon won the 50-and 100­yard freestyles as well as com­peting as a part of the 100-and 400-yard freestyle relay teams. 
"We're really excited about Carrie Nixon," women's head coach Bailey Weathers said. "This is probably the fastest she's been before Christmas, ever." · 
The team also clinched the only remaining meet record not held by Notre Dame at Notre Dame Relays, winning the 400­yard freestyle relay in 3 min­utes, 27.01 seconds, 10 seconds off the previous record held by Illinois State. 
The team of freshman Katie Eckholt, sophomore Danielle Hulick, Nixon and senior Kelly Hecking was also a second off the team record. 
"Even in a dual meet, that would be a really good swim," Weathers said. "It was really unexpected ... it's by far the best start we've ever had." 

Saint Mary's 
Only four points behind Marquette University, the Saint Mary's swim team fell into last place at the Notre Dame Relays after two disqualifications Friday. 
But that's just evidence of "young mistakes," said first-year coach Gregg Petcoff. 
Powered by nine freshmen on the roster, the Saint Mary's squad, did, however, squeak past some Division I teams. The 800-yard freestyle relay team of sophomore Megan Ramsey. junior Lane Herrington. junior Lauren Smith and sophomore Maureen Palchak placed fourth in 8 minutes, 29.02 seconds, ahead of Valparaiso, Washington and Marquette. 

The 200-yard medley relay of freshman Molly Maloy, Smith, freshman Lindsay Markin and sophomore Chloe Lenihan also beat out Valparaiso and Marquette in 2 minutes, 3.78 seconds. 
The Belles used the Relays as a warm-up for two Division I meets on their schedule in November. 
The team will face both Texas Christian University and Western Ontario early in the season, the first time the Belles have com­peted against Division I competi­tion in the regular season. 
But the presence of the Division I teams at the relays wasn't an issue in the Belles' performance Friday, Petcoff said. 
"They did fantastic," Petcoff said. "There are some things we need to work on ... but it's early in the season." 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 

Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown 
Take your next big step 
Deutsche Bank is dedicated to being the best financial services provider in the world. We endeavor to use our breadth of experience. capabilities and financial strength to create value for our shareholders, customers, employees and society as a whole. 
This year, our profits have doubled to €4.95 billion, thereby achieving the best results in our history to date. Clearly this is a very exciting time for the firm and now more than ever we are seeking to recruit the best and most talented from top universities around the world. 
Please join us to learn about career opportunities in 
Corporate Finance and Debt Capital Markets. 
Analyst Panel Discussion 

Wednesday, October 10, 2001 7:00pm Center for Continuing Education, Room 210 
More information about our exciting opportunities can be found on our web site at www.db.com/careers 
Deutsche Bank is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action employer ( MJF-/DN ). 
Teamwork. Leading to results~ 
IZI

Deutsche Bank 
' 
1 ' 



------:----------------------------------­
page 16 Monday, October 8, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS 




Soccer 
continued from page 24 
Georgetown goalie Brian O'Hagan and found its way into the net, giving the Irish a 1-0 lead with 2:33 left in the first half. 
The Irish received a bit of a scare early in the second half, as Georgetown came back to tie the game. 
After a shot by Hoya forward Kaiser Chowdhry was blocked by Sawyer, Chowdhry passed the deflection to teammate Kenny Owens, who found the right cor­ner of the net just eight minutes into the second half, evening the score at one goal apiece. 
However, as the second half wore on, the Irish slowly took over the game. With just under 22 minutes left in the second half, Riley drove undefended down the right side of the field. He then launched a lead pass to a wide-open Braun, who shot a bullet from 15 yards out to the top right corner of the net. 
"It was a great effort by the team tonight, not giving up after getting [our] first goal," Braun said. 
Just 10 minutes later, Riley made another lead pass, this time to Detter, who redirected the pass past O'Hagan from point blank range to provide the final goal for the Irish. 
"It was a great victory because it gets us back on track for the Big East," Clark said. 
The win landed the Irish in seventh place with six confer­ence games remaining. 
The Irish face a key stretch of their schedule up ahead, with their next three games on the road, including a match-up with in-state rival and national pow­erhouse Indiana on Oct. 17. 
Next up for the Irish is Big East rival West Virginia from Morgantown, W.V., Thursday at 7 p.m. 
Notes: 
. At halftime of Friday's game, a memorial was dedicated in memory of late Notre Dame men's soccer coach Mike Berticelli. Berticelli passed mvay on Jan. 25, 2000 from a heart attack. 
At the ceremony a plaque was presented to Berticelli's widow, Cinda, and children, inscribed with the words that appear on the memorial that now stands at the entrance to Alumni Field. 
Notre Dame captains Griffin Howard and Andreas Forstner also presented Mrs. Berticelli with bouquets of flowers. The ceremony was originally sched­uled for the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament on Sept. 14 and 16; however. those games were cancelled due to the terrorist attacks on the United States. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
goalie Liz Wagner. 
Llyod struck again, this time unassisted, just two minutes later. The forward was able to place the ball in the upper cor­ner of the net, just out of Wagner's reach, to put Notre Dame down for good. 
The only offense Notre Dame could muster came from the defense in the form of junior defender Vanessa Pruzinsky. The former high school striker took the ball up the middle of the field in the 16th minute of the first half, finding herself at the top of the penalty area, and fired a long range shot past Scarlet Knight keeper Christine Caldwell. 
The goal was Pruzinsky's first in her Notre Dame career. After the flurry of scoring early in the game. the teamsj settled into a tense game dom­
• inated by the Irish, with 21 shots to Rutgers' nine, and punctuated by strong goal­keeping by both Wagner and Caldwell. 
But the equalizer would never come for the Irish. While Friday's game was 
.1' Wet Your Whistle! 
(and stuff your face) 
DAILYSPECIALS 
Rated #1 Hot Wings in the area 
Monday Night Football Buckets of Wings & Half-Priced Pitchers 
uncharacteristic for the 2001 Irish, Sunday's game followed a common pattern for this sea­son, with Notre Dame relying on a very late goal from some­time defender, sometime for­ward Chapman to take down Seton Hall. 
Senior midfielder and cap­tain Mia Sarkesian struck first for the Irish, dribbling in the box before putting a shot past Pirate goalie Leah Miller. 
The Irish allowed the equal­izer on Seton Hall's only first half shot. Emily Fischer was able to loft a shot over Wagner to tie the score in the 43rd minute. 
The speedy and athletic Chapman, who moved to for­ward midway through the sec­ond half, was able to win the game for the Irish with eight minutes remaining when she was able to free herself from Pirate defenders long enough to fire a shot past Miller. 
The late, game-winning goal has become somewhat expect­ed for the Irish. Notre Dame need timely goals to defeat Villanova, West Virginia, and Indiana earlier in the season. 
Contact Jeff Baltruzak at jbaltrul@nd.edu. 

Visit The Observer online at www.nd.edu/.-Jobserver 
... 


... 1 ........... .. . . . • • • --. ! 
The Belles continue their string of away games on Tuesday against third-ranked Calvin College at 4 p.m. 
This will be the second match up between the Knights and the Belles. Saint Mary's is looking to avenge the 1-3 loss from earlier in the season. 
"We're excited coming off this win," Muth said. "We're really pumped for the rest of the season." 

Contact Katrina Kalasky at kala5482@saintmarys.edu. 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
game and we won," Concannon said. "I think it showed that we can adjust just as well as other teams." 
With a first year head coach, 13 freshmen and an 0-5 start, things were looking bleak for the Belles. However, with six games left in the season, the Belles are improving. 
Concannon was named 

offensive player of the week in the MIAA last week and junior captain Heather Muth was nominated for the same honor this week. 
The Belles are now ranked fifth in the MIAA with a record of 5-6, 3-4 in the MIAA, with all five wins coming in the last two weeks. 
"The beginning of the season was a transition," junior cap­tain Heather Muth said. "We had a new coach and a lot of new players but things are coming together now." 

Monday, October 8, 2001 page 17 
The Observer . SPORTS 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Bonds tops own record with 73 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 

Barry Bonds hit his 73rd home run Sunday, further extending the major league record he broke two days ear­lier. 
In what could be his final game with the San Francisco Giants, Bonds connected in the first inning off Los 


A n g e 1e s ' Bonds Dennis Springer. The Giants won the game 2-1. "This was a great, great way to end it with a victory and a home run. You can't ask for 
anything better," Bonds said after the game. "I never thought I could do it." 
Bonds, who broke Mark McGwire's record by slugging two homers on Friday night, homered in his first at-bat Sunday after taking a day off on Saturday. He singled in the third, popped out in the sixth and flied out in the eighth. 
Instead of feeling the pres­sure in the final few games of the season, Bonds finished the 
year  in  style  he  hit four  
homers  in  his  final  three  
games.  

Bonds shook his head and shrugged his shoulders, almost in disbelief at what he has accomplished this season, as he took the field for the top of the second inning. 
When McGwire set his record of 70 homers in 1998, a mark then thought unbreakable, he hit two homers on the final day of the season and five in his final three games. 
Bonds' homer, onto the arcade above the right-field fence, was the 567th of his career -leaving him six behind Harmon Killebrew for sixth all-time. Bonds started the season 17th on the career list. 
The ball was grabbed by Patrick Hayashi, 36, from 
nearby Santa Clara County, after a scrum among fans on the arcade. 
Bonds' 73rd home run also wrapped up another major league record for the Giants' left fielder. He finished the season with a slugging per­centage of .863, easily sur­passing the record of .84 7 set by Babe Ruth in 1920. 
And it also secured another record for Bonds -he home­red every 6.52 at-bats this sea­son, breaking the record of a homer every 7.27 at-bats set by McGwire in 1998. 
The solo homer came on a full-count knuckleball from Springer. It gave Bonds a career-high 137 RBIs. 
Fans accustomed to Bonds' heroics this season gave him a standing ovation, and he stepped out of the dugout for a quick curtain call. 
Before his second at-bat, fans chanted "Five more years!" -a reference to com­ments by Bonds' agent that he will seek a five-year deal after this season. 
Even though Bonds had one of the greatest offensive sea­sons in major league history, he may not be back in San Francisco next year. He is eli­gible for free agency after nine seasons with the Giants, who may not be able to afford his demands. 
Bonds, 37, earned $10.3 mil­lion this season in the last year of a three-year, $22.9 million contract extension. His agent, Scott Boras, is expected to seek a contract worth perhaps $20 million a year starting in 2002. 
Bonds would like to return to the Giants, the team of his godfather -Willie Mays ­and one of the teams. his father, Bobby Bonds, played for. He made that clear Friday night in a ceremony following his record-breaking homer. 
"I don't know what my future is," he said. "I love San Francisco and I love you fans. My family knows, God knows, I'm proud to wear this uni­form." 
But the Giants have a pro­
jected payroll of $66 million next season, and signing Bonds would mean committing nearly a third of that amount to one player. Also, the Giants may not be prepared to offer the five-year deal Boras apparent­ly is seeking. 
"It's a simple equation," gen­eral manager Brian Sabean said. "We'll only pay him what we can pay him to put a com­petitive team on the field. If he's looking to break the bank, our chances to sign him dimin­ish." 
And Giants owner Peter Magowan, serenaded with chants of "Sign him! Sign him!" during Friday night's celebration, said it's not such a simple situation. 
"It sounds like a stupid ques­tion -are your chances to win better with Barry or without him," Magowan said. "But the biggest question is, depending on what we have to pay him, how much do we have left over to win with? 
"Barry has said all the right things. His primary motivation is to win, and he doesn't want to saddle the Giants with a number that would prohibit us from having that chance. He has said that money is not the most important thing. But Scott Boras hasn't said that, and it remains to be seen what comes out of the negotiating process. 
'Tm sure he'd take less to stay here," Magowan added. "How much less, who knows." 
Bonds again said Sunday he's not eager to leave San Francisco. 
"This is my home. It's been my home since 1968 when my dad came here. It's always been my home," he said. 
"My rehi.tionship has been up and down, but for the most part has been good. This year it's been exceptionally good," he added. "You walk into a store, and you run into little old ladies who've never seen a baseball game before in their whole life, telling you what a great accomplishment you have." 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles race to 6th place finish 
the Belles, recording a 36th 
By KATIE McVOY 
place finish overall with a Associate Sports Editor 
time of 21 :'08. Sophomore 
Jessic'a Kosco came in third 
Rain, mud and nearly freez­for the Belles with a 21:19, ing temperatures are not ideal followed by freshman Amy conditions for a runner. But Blue and sophomore Caitlin the Belles flourished in Gillen who finished 53rd and Friday's conditions, beating 56th respectively with times of out 24 Division III teams to 21:54 and 21:57. take a sixth place finish in the The bad conditions did Benedictine Eagle Invitational. affect the team's ability to run 
With a course that was half in a pack. concrete and half puddles, Head coach Dave Barstis deciding what shoes to wear has been looking for the top and how to adjust running five runners to finish within style loomed large at the 30 seconds of each other. beginning of Puddles the race. But and mud when they "ft was rainy. the course made the crossed the split 1:19. 
was wet. We had a lot of
finish line, "I think
decisions to make and we
the Belles its going to felt that they made the right ones. ·· take us 
had made s o m e the right practice to
Nicole Prezioso
decision. get us "It was captain there," 
rainy, the course was sopping wet," captain Nicole Prezioso said. "We had a lot of decisions to make and we made the right ones." 
Sophomore Jackie Bauters led the pack again with a per­sonal best. Despite unfavor­able conditions, she finished the race in 20 min. 36 sec., six seconds better than the 20:42 that was previously her best time, leaving her in 24th place overall. 
"Every race I've been improving," Bauters said. "I think our training has increased and we're working a lot harder now. I'm just adjusting to running on differ­ent terrain." 
The rest of the Belles turned in solid performances. All five top runners finished the race in less than 22 minutes. 
"Th(;} majority of the team ran a really good race," Prezioso said. 
Freshman Kristen Zaininger finished in second place for 
Bauters 

s a i d . "Everyone adjusts to the course differently with the hills and the mud and the puddles. It's hard to run as a group all the time because people handle it differently." 
The Belles faced solid com­petition from the rest of the runners. With 30 Division III teams, it encouraged hard running but at the same time the level of competition was something Saint Mary's knew it could live up to. 
"We knew it was pretty level," Bauters said. "It gives you incentive to run faster because you know you can compete against these girls." 
St. Joseph University took home the meet title with a team total of 51 points. 
The Belles run next at the Manchester Invitational on Saturday. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
Shape the Future of Health Care as a Doctor of Chiropractic 
v' If you want to help people gel well and stay well... 
ti If you want to work independently as a self­employed chiropractic physician... 
ti If you want to achieve the financial success commensurate with your professional standing as a Doctor of Chiropractic... 
v If you want to establish your position in the community as a highly respected Doctor of Chiropractic... 
Then you are ready for a challenging and rewarding career in chiropractic. Contact Logan College of Chiropractic today! 
Logan 



olcannon 
Traditional & Original Music 
October 9, 2001 

7:30 pm Moreau Little Theatre 
CuUt~t•ul'•C(tdn.t:p:nttt:k 
1-800-533-9210 
www.logan.edu .;.,~ loganadm@logan.edu 


For ticket information, contact the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 284-4626 
Monday, October 8, 2001 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Challenge awaits Irish at Shoot-out 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
After a disappointing fourth place finish among a less com­petitive field at its home course last week, the Notre Dame women's golf team is faced with an even tougher challenge at this week's par 72, 5874-yard Shoot-out at the Legends Tournament in Franklin, Ind. 
"This is probably one of the 
toughest fields we're going to 
have," said coach Debbie 
King. 
The competition includes 
Indiana, Kent State, Purdue 
and Penn State. Just by the 
numbers, the competition 
seems formidable. Golfweek 
rated Kent State 23rd, Purdue 
35th, Indiana 36th and Penn 
State 42nd in its performance 
ratings. The publication 
ranked Notre Dame 93rd. 
"I don't think any of us were 
[pleased with last weekends 
performance]," King said. "We 
were rather disappointed." 
In order to prevent anQther 
disappointing finish the Irish 
have worked 
very hard at 

practice this "You wouldn't be much of 25th, and week and 36th places
a coach ifyou didn't say
have made at their home
they could every time 
s o m e course changes to they go out there. But I which hurt 
their line­will .say ... the field is the Irish. 
up. Because of
much tougher than the 
"We have the numbers had very field we hadfor our own and the 
conductive tournament [last week]. ,, strength of 
practices," the competi­
King said. tion, the "Half of the Debbie King Shoot-out team was head coach will pose a 
qualifying. Half of the them were practicing." 

Today's line-up will consist of Lotta, sophomore Shannon Byrnes, senior Kristin McMurtrie, senior Lauren Fuchs and sophomore Jeanne Murphy. Fuchs replaces junior Terri Taibl. 
King believes that for the most part that all of the golfers are equal in capability. The line-up was determined by the strength of the golfers'
t 
play at the Notre Dame Invitational last weekend. "I let the numbers speak for themselves," King said. 
With the new line-up and intensive practices, the Irish want to bring home a win. Freshman Karen Lotta, who led the Irish last weekend with her ninth place finish is opti­mistic about this week's tour­nament. 
"I think we can perform to our potential this tourna­ment," said Lotta, who was winner of the California south­ern section golf title as a high school senior. "We're ready now. We're back into the groove of things after our first tournament." 
King is confident in Lotta's ability to put last week's low finish behind her. 
"Lotta doesn't let anything 
bother her," King said. "She's 
a go-getter." 

At the Notre Dame 
Invitational last weekend, 
Lotta fired 85, 79 and 80 to 
finish with a 54-hole total of 
244. Byrne finished a place behind the freshman, with a total of 246. The rest of the 
top five fin­ished in 16th, 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish make line-up change 
. Marshall, Richie complete Irish squad in hopes of championship 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will juggle their line-up again this week at the Xavier Invitational at King's Island in Mason, Ohio. Last weekend a line-up change helped the men's golf team fin­ish eighth. 
"Our expectations are to go 
in there and compete for the 
championship," said head 
coach John Jasinski. "I think 
we're developing quickly 
here." 
So far, the Irish have exhibit­
ed an improvement from the 
beginning of the season, when 
they finished last in a field of 
19 at the Earl Yestingmeier 
Invitational. 
Veterans Steve Ratay and 
Brandon Lunke, as well as 
freshman Steve Colnitis will 
remain in the line-up. Lunke 
finished third overall last week. 
Freshman Ryan Marshall 
and senior walk-on Kevin 
Richie will complete the Notre 
Dame squad for the tourna­
ment taking place on Monday 
and Tuesday. Richie, who will 
be playing in his first collegiate 
tournament, replaces junior 
Chris Whitten in the line-up. 
But the arrangement is not 
set in stone for the rest of the 
season. 
"I think [the lineup! is going to rotate between seven or eight guys," Ratay said. 
According to Jasinski, the competition at King's Island will not be as tough as last week. The Irish will mainly be competing against middle-of­the-road teams from their dis­trict -the teams they must beat in order to advance to the 
The rest of the golfers had to compete for the remaining two slots. The only time the entire team met this week was at a team meeting. 
The Irish golfers are stress­ing that they are in a building phase right now, and that phase includes both increasing performance and confidence. 
"Our performance level right 
N C A A Regionals. 
N o t r e Dame has beaten most of the teams it will be playing, with the exception of Michigan. The Irish lost to the Wolverines by a single stroke last weekend. 
Because of the rainy conditions at the end of last 

"Right now, I think we're more anxious than we are confidence. Confidence is a goal that we're building into. The confidence is going to come with the success on the field ... We have to prove to ourselves that we deserve to be confident. " 
John Jaskinski head coach 
now is devel­oping. \Ve're heading toward more consistent scoring pat­tern," Jasinski said. "There's a lot of positive momentum going on in our program right now." 
"We're starting to play a little bette·r. We're starting to feel more confident," Ratay said. 
week, practice had to be altered. 
"We've just been working on short game," Lunke said. "The course was under water [at the week's end]." 
Practice was also mainly on an individual basis for the team, especially for Lunke, Ratay and Colnitis who, because of the performances last weekend, had already qualified to represent the Irish at the Xavier Invitational. 

"Right now, I think we're more anxious than we arc con­fident," Jasinski added. "Confidence is a goal that we're building into. The confi­dence is going to become with the success on the field ...We have to prove to ourselves that we deserve to be confident." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 

Saint M$s College 
O

NOTRE DAME INDIANA 
The Nation's Premier Catholic 1/Vomen's COiiege 
29TH ANNUAL 

EUROPEAN SUMMER STUDY TOUR 
considerable 
challenge to 
the Irish. 
"You wouldn't be much of a coach if you didn't say they could win every time they go out there," King said. "But I will say ... the field is much tougher than the field we had for our own tournament [last week]." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 


Courses offered in History, Education, Music, Culture and International Business. 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 e-mail: dstefanc@saintmarys.edu Fax: European Summer Study Program (219) 284-4866 
Monday, October 8, 2001 page 19
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

I 
Morgan Stanley invites you 
Learn about the people who work here, · what they do and how we serve our clients 
around the world 
Monday, October 8, 2001 
6:30 p.m. 
Alumni Senior Club 
Apply online at morganstanley.com/careers 
Join us. 
Morgan ~ Stanley 
Morgan Stanley is an Equal Opportlllity Employer committed to workforce diversity. Morgan Stanley is a service mark of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. 
Monday, October8 l, 200 l 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND VOLLEYBALL
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Irish take two on the road 
Belles errors 

By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 

lead to loss 
With everybody contributing to the offense. the Notre Dame

Where the Belles lacked 
volleyball team (10-3, 5-0 inBy KATIE McVOY team cohesion, the Knights the Big East) added two road

Associate Sports Editor were a solid unit. Led by 
wins to its

senior setter Sara Ahrenholz 
undefeated

Errors and teamwork were and a strong middle block, 
conference

the names of the game during Calvin formed a tight offense 
record this

the Belles 3-0 (30-14, 30-17. and an even tighter defense. 
weekend,

30-18) loss to the Knights of "We're not one unit like 
sweeping

Calvin on Friday. Saint Mary's Calvin," Shevik said. "Calvin is 
Boston

had the errors and Calvin had a really team-oriented team." 
College on

the teamwork. A solid Knights "They don't have the one 
Saturday

team forced Saint Mary's into dominant player," Schroeder­
before top­

errors, but the Belles were Biek said. "They are strong all 
p i n g

their own worst enemy. the way around." 
Connecticut"I think we Despite in four games Sunday.

could· have the loss, 
In Sunday's match against

done better. "We made a lot ofour S a i n t 
the Huskies, Big East presea­

but Calvin is a own errors. They did Mary's 
son player of the year Kristy

very strong did see
force some errors on us, 
Kreher proved her mettle

team," head s o m e against one of the tougher con­
but we forced them on
coach Julie improve­
ference opponents. Kreher

Schroeder­ourselves." m e n t 
totaled 20 blocks in the four

Biek said. from the 
games for her eighth career

"We made a last time 20-kill match. Only four other
Julie Schroeder-Biek
lot of our own these two Irish volleyball players have
errors. They head coach teams 

did force 
some errors 
on us, but we forced them on 
ourselves." 
The Knights had a team attack percentage of .336, wifh four players over 400 while the Belles only attacked successfully 10 percent of the time. And the 13 aces the Knights racked up can be attributed to a combination of good serves and Belles errors. 
"Some of those service aces they had weren't because of very strong serving," Schroeder-Biek said. "It was because we weren't communi­cating." 
Communication continued to be a problem for the Belles. During the last several games, talking on the court is some-' thing that has only happened on the opposing side of the net. Despite intense work on communication at practice, the Belles fall short during actual competition. 
"It's mainly not talking enough and not confirming to their teammates that 'Yes, I'm here,' or the set communica­tion," Schroeder-Biek said. 
"Our communication is fine in the beginning of the game and its not there at the end when we need it to pull through and win the match," sophomore Alison Shevik said. 
The later half of the game also continues to be a prob­lem. In all three games the Belles played, they were point for point with the Knights for the first 10 points. But Calvin runs late in the game left them digging themselves out of a hole. 
"We were with them point to point, but if they had a spree where they scored a lot of points it got a way from us." Schroeder-Biek said. "If they made more than three points on us we lost confidence." 
Halfway through the match the communication lines broke down. Calvin's took advantage of the breakdown and man­aged to win all three matches by at least 12 points. 

j' 
"A lot of times we're lacking 

~ 
the intensity to win the entire match," Shevik said. "We're up at the same level as the other team to 20 points and then they pull away from us." 

faced off. 
T h e 
Belles had better control over 
the Knights middle block that 
dominated in the last contest. 
"There was a success," Schroeder-Biek said. "Our out­side attackers were on because our middles were pulling the block up with them ... the middles didn't get a lot of glory in the kill department but the things they did helped us as a team." 
Junior Elizabeth Albert led 
the Belles with nine kills and 
12 digs. Shevik added seven 
kills and seven digs. 

Saint Mary's faces off against Olivet at Olivet on Tuesday. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
ever had more 20-kill contests. Kreher's success was made possible by the smart decision­making of sophomore setter Kristen Kinder, who finished with 56 assists. 
"Kristen did a good job of spreading things around today," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said of Kinder. "Getting the ball to Kristy Kreher more than anybody else was important. She was definitely on today and had a very good match for us." 
Kreher wasn't the only one spiking well against the Huskies. Kim Fletcher added 14 kills, while Malinda Goralski and Emily Loomis each added 12. Fletcher post­ed a .455 hitting percentage and led the Irish with seven blocks. 

"I think that's really impor­tant for us when we can have the numbers like that across the board," Brown said. "I would just say that all the hit­ters are carrying a good strong load offensively." 
Notre Dame won a close 30­27 match in game one, but fell in game two when the Connecticut took control. The Huskies totaled 22 kills, hitting .302 compared to Notre Dame's .146 hitting on 13 kills. 
The Irish came back strong as the Connecticut offense 
the match, including a .077 mark in the third game. 
Malinda Goralski led the way against the Golden Eagles with nine kills on a . 368 hitting per­centage while Kreher and Fletcher each added seven kills. But Notre Dame won the match with a strong defensive effort. 
Notre Dame held Boston College to .035 hitting, digging 57 attacks. Defensive special­ists Christa Moen and Janie Alderete each reached double­digit digs, Aldrete with 13 and 
proved infe­rior in the final two games. . During Notre Dame's 30­21 victory in game three, UConn hit just .135 to Notre Dame's .324 clip. In the deciding fourth game, Notre Dame hit only .237 but the Huskies made as 
"/ think that's really important for us when we can have numbers like that across the board. I would just say that all the hitters are carrying a good strong load offensively. ,, 
Debbie Brown head coach 
Moen with a career-high 10. 
"They both played very well," Brown said of the defensive specialists. "I think Boston College is a very strong defensive team. That is certainly one of their strengths. I thought we really hung 
many hitting errors, 13, as kills scored to finish with a .000 percentage. 
"I think we rebounded real well in game three," Brown said. "In game four it was real­ly our serving and blocking that was really strong in that game and held Connecticut to a zero hitting percentage." 
Notre Dame performed well on the block in both weekend games. The Irish finished with 13 total blocks in each contest. 
In fact, blocking, serving and defense proved the keys to vic­tory in Chestnut Hill on Saturday as the Irish won all three games (30-23, 30-17, 31­
29) despite hitting only .214 in with them well in that area, did a lot of scrambling, got a lot of balls up." 
Despite the fact that no Irish player reached double-digit kills in the match, Brown was satisfied with her team's effort. 
"I think we scored a lot of points on our block and serve, not so much on our kills," Brown said. "We just got more points in other ways." 
Notre Dame continues its Big East season Friday at 4 p.m., hosting Villanova in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter. I@nd.edu. 


The Easy Banking Club 
for Notre Dame and Saint Mary''..> :=acultv ~nd Staff 
Great Benefits 

Sign up for direct deposit payrol I at 1st Source Bank and receive the following great benefits: 
• 
Free checking account* 


• 
Interest on balances over $750 

• 
Unlimited check writing 


• 
Free Resource® or Resource Plus<'> card 

• 
1/2% interest discount on consumer loans 

• 
$100 mortgage closing cost discount 

• 
Free Online Banking account. information access 

• 
And much more... 



Ask Human Resources or a 1st Source Bank representative for details on how easy it is to join. 
Now More Convenient Than Ever! 
In addition to our banking center and ATM in Haggar College Center, and our ATM in the Hesburgh Library, we recently added a third ATM in LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's. Plus, we've extended our hours at the Saint Mary's Banking Center to serve you even better. 
lstsource.com 

Saint Mary's Banking Center • 235-2019 M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30 
'5ub,ect to new account credit restrictions. 


Monday, October 8, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Watson makes history at ND Invitational 
. Senior becomes first since 1978 to win invite for two consecutive years 
By KATIE HUGHES Sports Writer 
It was a dreary day to make history. 
But as the rain made Notre Dame Golf Course slippery and muddy, senior Luke Watson led the Irish to their first victory at the Notre Dame Invitational since 1995. 
Watson became the first per­son to win the Notre Dame Invitational two years in a row since Marc Hunter of Cleveland State in 1978, taking the title in 24 min. 6 sec. 
"We went out really fast," said Watson. "That put me in oxygen debt for the rest of the race." 
Watson, senior Ryan Shay and sophomore Todd Mobley stayed together and pushed each other for most of the race. Shay, who won the National Catholic Invitational on the same course earlier this sea­son, finished second in 24:25, and Mobley, who won the Valparaiso Invitational, finished right on Shay's heels, also in 24:25. 
"Ryan and Luke were both feeling a little sick," said senior Marc Striowski. 
"The mud takes a lot out of you," Mobley said. "But I tried to stay up with Ryan and Luke." 
As a deep crowd of fans who came out despite the rain cheered on the Irish, Striowski had one of the meet's closest finishes, kicking in the last 100 yards but being narrowly edged out by Utah State's Mitch Zandel. 
IIIY tOPIIOMORlt!!! ! 
Are r:jOU [11,.tev-ested [111., -pLClrf111.,g Cl w..ajor roLe [111., l:jOUY 
J u111.,wr Pare111.,t's. week?.e111.,o{? rf so,, get [!A,VOLVe~ !A,OW! ! 
Striowski finished fifth in 24:38, making this the second meet in a row where the Irish have finished 1-2-3-5. 
"I felt like I could have beat [Zandel]," said Striowski. "I didn't have as good of a kick as him." 
Senior Sean Zanderson ran his best race of the season to finish as the fifth runner for the Irish in 25:00. 
"This meet just shows that we have pretty good depth. Even though our regular fifth man didn't run well, Sean did," Striowski. "There are people who will step up. Inevitably someone might always not run well, but we can be confident that our team will run well no matter what. Everyone is look­ing forward to Pre-Nationals." 
Sophomore David Alber fin­ished 38th in 25:25, and junior John Keane finished 53rd in 
25:37. Senior Pat Conway fin­ished 70th. 
Notre Dame's "B" team bust­ed up the muddy competition as well, taking first in the Gold division race. Sophomores Mario Bird and Brian Kerwin took second and fourth, respec­tively. 
"For the seniors, it was nice to win our last race at Notre Dame," said Striowski. 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 


ND WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY
JPW 2002 is looking for a Sophomore Chair. 
LeC1r111., tvie r-apes earL!j ct111.,o{ get to Y-GV\,OW a grecit grou-p of ju 111.,Lors. ! 
Irish bring home victory
What more could you ask for? 
By KATIE HUGHES

you cet111.,-pLcf:G u-p etp-pLLcAHov\-.S outsLo{e of t~eJPW offi,ce 
Sports Writer 

Locettect [111., 2i4 LaFortu111.,e. Af-pLLccitL0111.,s. ewe due October ii to t~eJPW offi,c.e. 
It was a mud spattered and momentous meet for the Irish. Running its full team for the first time this season, includ­


ing freshman Lauren King, the team took an authoritative vic­tory at the Notre Dame 

Dr. Ronald E. McNair 

Invitational on Friday, winning the "Blue" division race with 58 points. 
Michigan was the closest competitor of the next 16 teams, with 104 points. 
King, a native of Toronto, Ontario, finished in 17 min. 20 sec. in her first collegiate cross country meet to take the 
title. 
"I was nervous before the 
race, but really excited," King 
said. "I was excited all week to 
wear this jersey." 
King, who finished 26th at the World Junior Cross Country Championships last year, did not run in earlier meets because her track sea­son extended into midsummer. She and the rest of the team had to contend with a sloppy, rainy day and a muddy course. 
"It was a great day for cross 
country," King said. 
Junior Jen Handley took 
home third place in 17:28. 
"I just put my head down and ran," Handley said. "I just hung in for the last mile. And having [Lauren] totally felt like this is when our season gets rolling." 
Sophomore Megan Johnson was next for Notre Dame in 10th place, followed by fresh­man Christi Arnerich (20th) and junior Jennifer Fibuch (24th). Sophomore Julia Schmidt finished 54th, and Junior Muffy Schmidt finished 50th. 
"It was awesome. Finally our team is together," Handley said. 
The rainy day didn't keep the football weekend crowds away from watching the meet at Notre Dame golf course: 
"It was awesome having our parents and friends here," Handley said. 
CANDAX-ME is A Federally Funded TRIO Program 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 
THE CANDAX-ME MCNAIR PROGRAM ANNOUNCES THE 2001 -2002 RECRUITMENT MEETINGS WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2001 
and/or 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2001 
7:00 -8:00 PM (Pizzas & Sodas will be served) 
IN ROOM 117 HA YES-HEALY (DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION: NOV. 20) 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
(all etlznic backgrounds are eligible) 
OR 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans (.visit the ro ram at htt ://www.nd.edu/~mario/mcnair/) 

Page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 8, 2001 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Pyros burn Purple Weasles in 6-0 win 
half, but were unable to capi­
. PE claims Apple 

talize on the opportunities.Cup with its Schulte opened the second victory over PW half by intercepting Terifay 
and returning the ball to the 
PE 10-yard line. The Purple By PHIL KOESTERER and Weasels were unable to con­KEN CHAMPA vert, however, and turned Sports Writers over the ball on downs. 
On their next drive, the
Mod Quad's "Civil War" lived 

Weasels took it to the end 
up to its name. The Pyros of 

zone with a crisply executed Pasquerilla East defeated the hook•and•ladder play that was 
Purple Weasels of Pasquerilla 

called back because running
West 6-0 in a rainy, hard­back Kristin Boyd was not 

f ought 

weadng flags. 
g a m e 

QuarterbackThursday 
Leslie Schmidt
"One ofthe biggest plays 
night on 

was intercept­
W e s t ofthe game came when 
ed on the next Riehle center Tara James play.
Field. 

prevented a PW punt PW coach 
Penalties Mike Canfield 

against PW returner from scoring a 
was displeasedand big potential touchdown. The with the offici"­
plays from 

other was [Terif ay 's] ating.
PE were 

"It was the
the differ­touchdown ... 
biggest injus­ence in a tice since the 
contest 

Stephen Gillespie U.S. played the 
t h a t Soviet Union in

PE coach
remained 

the '72 
scoreless 

Olympics,"
until the Canfield said final min-

referring to the utes. 
first time the Americans lost 
Following an Erin Schulte the gold medal in men's bas­interception deep in PW terri­ketball. 

tory late in the half. the Purple 

The Weasles just couldn't 
Weasels were unable to put 
get the job done. 
together a drive. PE forced PW "They made two big stops in to punt, but a penalty for not the red zone," said PW coach 

wearing flags against the 

Jack Palma. "We couldn't con­Pyros on the punt return gave vert." 
the ball back to PW. The 

The Pyros will now take pos­Weasels could not take advan­
session of the Apple Cup, a 
tage of the second opportunity, trophy given each year to the however, and punted the ball 

winner of the Pasquerilla
back to the Pyros. 

East-Pasquerilla West game. 
On its next possession, PE quarterback Lindsay Terifay 
Welsh 6, Badin 0
scrambled for the game's only In a game that promised totouchdown. 

be a battle of the defenses, the"One of the biggest plays of best defender of all proved to
the game came when center 

be the cold, steady rain falling
Tara James prevented a PW on West Riehle Field. Thepunt returner from scoring a 

Welsh Family Whirlwinds
potential touchdown," said PE were able to work around thecoach Stephen Gillespie. "The 

rain and defeat the Badin
other was [Terifay's] touch­
Bullfrogs.
down." 

Welsh's offense was relative­The first half began slowly ly successful in the first half,for both teams. A muddy play­moving the ball enough to picking field and steady rain were up two first downs. The much­not conducive to extended dri­
touted Welsh defense, with
ves for either offense. 

help from a slippery football,
The Weasels had several 

prevented the Bullfrogs from
chances to score in the second 

Want a front row seat? 
Write Observer sports. 
·call 1-4543 
gaining so much as a single "Our defense was great," "The defense played great. first down. added Wendeln. "Welsh was They dominated. They [the 
"Obviously the weather was averaging something like 18 Phoxes] barely had the ball in a big factor in the game," said points a game, and we held the second half at all," said Badin coach Casey Wendeln. them to one touchdown." Walz. "It was hard for our quarter­The game was kept close by back because she had no grip the bend don't break defense on the ball." of Pangborn. Twice BP took
Breen Phillips 7, Pangborn 0
Welsh was able to control the ball to the Phoxes' 1-yard
The Katie McFarland show

time of possession allowing no line, and twice came away
was on as Breen-Phillips beat 
turnovers and forcing Badin to with nothing.
the Pangborn Phoxes. On a 
punt on every drive. But Pangborn's focus just
cold, windy, rainy night,
"By stopping them and not wasn't there tonight.
McFarland, the B-abes quarter­
turning the ball over. we were "Our timing was off on
back and team captain,
able to win the game with a offense and we made a lot of
dodged the raindrops as she
couple big plays," said Welsh mental errors on defense.too,"
ran for nearly 100 yards, a
coach Joe Blaney. said Phox sophomore receiver
touchdown and six first
Although completing passes and tailback Tia Vonil.
downs.
proved difficult, Badin had Pangborn
"Katie

moderate success running the just couldn't
played awe­
ball. Amy Marshall and sever­S t O p
some. she was "Scoring early allowed 
al other members of the McFarland's
amazing out us to focus a lot
Bullfrog backfield gained sig• running.
there tonight,"
nificant yardage with the and improve on other "We just
said Babe
option and the reverse. freshman parts of the game. couldn't get The big break for Welsh the flags, we
Lindsey Walz, There are still little 
came on the opening drive of just couldn't
one of
the second half. The things we need to do to do it
McFarland's
Whirlwinds opened the half . ., tonight,"
favorite tar­Wln. 
with a pass for the first of said senior
gets.
three first downs on the drive. Pangborn
McFarland

Freshman quarterback Lauren Katie MacFarland captain
scored early in 
Hoeck connected with three Breen-Phillips quarterback Katrina
the first half
different receivers, including Paulson
on a 20-yard
sophomore Jamie T h e r e
option keeper. 
McEldowney. were some
"Scoring

"We were throwing short bright spots
early allowed 
passes, just enough to get first for Pangborn in this game as
us to focus a lot and improve
downs and move the ball." well. Freshman quarterback
of other parts of our game,"
said Hoeck. "The rain was just Charlotte Troupis completed
MacFarland said. "There are 
an extra challenge." seven passes, five of them to
still little things we need to do
Hoeck scrambled for a · Vanil.
[to win]." 
touchdown on the 13th play of "Charlotte did a nice job for
In addition to running

that drive, but the play was us tonight," added Paulson.
through the Ph oxes,
called back for flag guarding. After the game, BP indicated
McFarland was able to com­
On the next play, however, that it is looking towards the
plete four of her eight passes. 
she connected with post-season already. 
Walz, along with receiver

McEldowney for the game's "Our goal is to win every
Kelly Landers made life terri­
only touchdown. game, we're hoping to make
ble for the Phoxes' defense,
Despite the promising per­the playoffs," \'Valz said. 
coming up with one big catch
formance of its running backs, Pangborn remains optimistic
after another.
Badin was unable to answer as well moving towards to end
"[The rain] makes our

with a score of their own. of the season.
offense harder to run,"
"The weather played a fac­"We're using every game as
McFarland said. "But our 
tor, but we usually play pretty a steppingstone, we will defi­
receivers ran great routes
well in the rain," said Badin nitely be ready to play our
tonight, it made it easier for
senior Beth Rimkus. "I think it next game," Vonil said. 
me." 
was mostly a mental problem, 
In addition to putting points 
because Welsh is a really good 

on the board, the Babes domi­
Contact Phil Koesterer at
team and they came into the 

nated by controlling the ball 
pkoester@nd.edu. Contact Ken 
game undefeated." 

almost the entire second half. 
Champa at kchampa@nd.edu 
FacultyTea 


ef)ers ectives on 
. .·.•. ".
'.; '~~­
' 



Monday, October 8, 2001 page 23
The Observer . TODAY 
• 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS ~ A, in Aachen 61 "... or_!" 
VIRGO (Au&·. 23-Sept.. 22):CELEBRITIES BORN ON

1 "Gee whillikers!" 36 Dumbfounded 62 Lone Star State 
Don't take everyttung so senous-THIS DAY: Jesse Jackson, Paul 
1y, You need to mellow out.
sch. 
Hogan, Sigourney Weaver, Matt

5 Deviate 37"_say ... " 
Check out challenging physicalDamon, Chevy Chase
63 Windblown soil9 Terra 39 Judge's seat 

activities that will reduce stress
Happy Birthday: You have a 
and motivate you, 00
64 Famed loch 
lot on your mind. Slow down and

14 Judge 40 Org. governing 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22):

two conferences 65 Prepare a salad 
look at each idea carefully, Trust 15 Switch ending in your own abilities and creativi­Activities or meetings will pro­
41 Japanese soup vide information on foreign
16 Thai or ty. It's time to be a leader. Your 
Taiwanese 42 Funny hitting DOWN numbers:18,21,26,38,44,47 lands, philosophies or cultures. It's time to explore all your
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 

17 Suffix with fabric sounds 1 Hold 
Avoid confrontations with a co­options. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):

18 Valley girl? 43 The Clermont 2 Horse opera worker who isn't pulling his or 
Communication will open doorsher own weight. If you've bent

19 Mad 47 Aloft 3 "Uncle Tom's to new adventures. You will be
over backward to help, stop

48 Supporter Cabin" writer able to ferret out secret informa­
20 Alaska assuming the responsibility. You tion on an amazing financial deal. 
23 High-ranking 52 What 20-, 28-· 4 Proclaimed can't always pick up the pieces 
Be prepared to take advantage of for others. 000

clergyman and 43-Across 5 Grazing lands 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): your good fortune. 000 
24 Fables each tumed into for gnus SAGITTARIUS (NO'lt Z2-Dec 21):
Problems with relatives will cause Get a grip on your life and learn

55 Cassette 6 Up friction. Don't go into business
28 "Snow White 
to enjoy yourself. Check o~t

contents with friends or family, and avoid
and the Seven 7 Massage deeply debt. Opportunities for travel social activities in your commuru­Dwarfs" 58 Goes kaput ty so that you can meet some new
8 It can be used must be carefully considered. 
people, Romance is in the air.

31 Biblical tower 59 How many a to walk the dog 000 site product is GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 000 
9 Ultraliberals . CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19):
advertised You'll be emotional if you haven't
34 Home, Your ability to talk circles around
10 Arbitrary taken care of problems with loved 
informally 60 Idolize your colleagues will certainly help 
parental ones. Don't keep running away 
you forge ahead. Your determina­

"explanation" from your true feelings. Sort _out 
tion and stamina make your workyour differences and get back mto 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Eve's beginning appear effortless and flawless.
the swing of things. 000 
000

"'!!!"'I"~~~ 12 Month after avril CANCER (June 21•July 22): 
Puzzle by Patrick Merrell 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your need to be in love may

13 Additionally to
33 Mideastern 50 Adlai's running 54 Mah-jongg deceive you. Don't overreact if It's up to you make the .....,.....,_,.__. 21 Stairwell item dancer's asset mate -piece someone around you has a poor changes to tum your life and atti· tude around. The key to feeling
attitude. Instead, choose to do

37 Bum lightly
22 Catch, as a 51 Answers an 55 Prince in the good about yourself is to return
things witho~t him or_her. One­

bronco 38 Donkey invitation comics, for to a routine and become a better­
sided attractions are likely. You 

short looking, more aware individual.
25 Western New 39 Three-fingered need to re-evaluate your situation.
53 Gulf of 

....+.....+-,...t York town 00000
saluter (entrance to the 56 Altar declaration 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your

26 Toy piano sound 41 1820 White Red Sea) 57 Female hare Overindulgence will cause prob­
_,..;.....-1 self-esteem will return if you're in
House residents lems with loved ones. Try to curb 
27 Does a film the limelight and entertain others 
bad habits and compromise if

editor's job 42 Group at organizational functions. You Answers to any three clues in this•puzzle can meet new friends who will your partner makes an ultir_na•
29 _the line 44 Princeton team tum, It's time to be a responsible
are available by touch-tone phone: appreciate how·valuable you are. 
person at home and at work 00 · 

__.~__.......,_. 30 Thus far 45 Fixate (on) 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute). 0000 
31 Canada's 46 Scoundrels Annual subscriptions are available for the Birthday Baby: Your built-in intuition will ~nable you to ~ake the
-+...+..+,..-t National Park 
49 Fifty minutes best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 right choices throughout life. You are chanrun&, hard-working an~ ----~----32 Terrible past the hour years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. gifted at pleasing others. You have a creative nund and an energetic approach to life. . 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com., eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
\C) 2001 Universal Press Syndicate

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
GAME DAY TRADITION #!56!5 THE STUDENT-RUN CONCESSION STAND 
I'LL TAKE TWO BRATS ANO TWO COLAS. PLEASE 
BILL AMEND

FOXTROT 
I TOLD YOU MIS­
REMIND ME

OW! OW! OW! 
YOU THE UNDERSTAND. 
A<11AIN WHY OW!
OW! OW! 

CASSEROLE THoSE WERE 
WE STRESS OW! 

WAS HOT, CRIES OF PAIN 
"'HoNESTY"' WITH OW! 

PETER. FROM MY 
...___________, 1.------------' .__________...1..,o•..:.11 
..,"'8t>__..__________. 
TOM KEELEY 
I THINK I'VE HAD CHEMISTRY TESTS WITH HIGHER GRADES THAN THIS MEAT 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to= The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
>
Address ___________________ City _______State ____ Zip______ 
... 


r,, 
\ I 
\ 
' 
I 
Campus Sports .~\\ ,'t \ . lnterhall, p. 22 
\
,i t . ND Cross Country, p.21 
,J,1} 
. SMC Volleyball, p. 20 IH . ND Volleyball, p. 20
I , ' 
l 
lf,
I 
:~ 
~ 
} WOMEN'S SOCCER 
I 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, October 8, 2001 
Campus Sports 

. 
ND Golf, p. 18 

. 
SMC Cross Country, p. 17 

. 
ND Swimming, p. 15 

. 
SMC Swimming, p. 15 


;\ 
,) 
,'t 
",'t 
Irish split conference games
f 
;!:r 
,) ByJEFF BALTRUZAK
1 
Assistant Sports Editor
'.(
' 
I \ It was a weekend of things both familiar I and unfamiliar for the third-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team. The Irish expe­
'"IC 
rienced a rare loss in Big East play on Friday night at Rutgers 2-1, dropping only their fourth Big East game since joining the con­ference in 1995. Sunday's 2-1 win at Seton Hall saw a recurring theme for Notre Dame. namely a late, game-winning goal in a game the Irish clearly dominated throughout. 

"[The loss] was a wake-up call," freshman forward Candace Chapman said. "We'll be able to bounce back from it. I think it was good in that fr showed us what could happen if we don't put teams away and [create] more urgency in scoring." 
Just getting to New Jersey on Friday proved to be a struggle. The team missed its con­necting flight in Pittsburgh Thur~day night, and was forced to catch a few hours of quick 
. sleep in an airport hotel before flying to Newark early Friday morning. 
"I think we should be ready for every game no matter what happens before," Chapman said. 
The Irish opened up the Rutgers game with uncharacteristically soft defense. Scarlet Knight midfielder Carli Lloyd victimized the Irish backline for two goals within the first ten minutes. putting Notre Dame in a quick 2-0 hole, a hole the Iris}) offense could never fill. 
"[They scored] right off the bat ... that was really surprising," Chapman said. 
hii ., ' 
-'(' Lloyd scored her first goal off a set corner play by Erica Schubert. Schubert put the ball in play with a low kick that made it through the Irish defense and found the freshman 
' see IRISH/page 16 
L 
{.• 
n 
i MEN'S SOCCER
l 
I 
! 
.l ! 
:i Irish 01uzzle Boyas
r
l 
By BRYAN KRONK
{ Sports Writer 
~(' 
Half the battle for the Notre Dame men's soccer team on I Friday was enduring the ele­ments and conditions brought 
I 
I I on by Mather Nature. The other i half was enduring a pesky
' 
~,¥­
Georgetown offense. Battling wind-driven rain and I ~ a game time temperature hov­
t ering in the low 40s, a large crowd at Alumni Field saw the Irish defeat the Hoyas in a key
1i 
Big East showdown, 3-1. 
1 
,' 
Irish forward Erich Braun scored two goals and midfielder Justin Detter added another to round out the Irish scoring. Chad Riley contributed two assists for Notre Dame. 

"It was a great game tonight, and we had a great defensive effort as well." Braun said. "The [final two] goals we scored were just like drills in practice. I think Coach will be proud of us." 
Irish goalie Chris Sawyer fin­ished with six saves for the Irish, one shy of his personal best of seven, set earlier this season against Seton Hall. Sawyer, a freshman, has made three consecutive starts in goal for the Irish. 
"[Sawyer]'s done a terrific job," Irish head coach Bobby Clark said. "He's getting better every game, and I'm very pleased with what he's been doing." 
The Irish opened the scoring just before halftime, when defender Kevin Richards took possession after two Hoya defenders collided. 
Richards, taking advantage of a seemingly frozen Hoya squad, passed to midfielder Kevin Goldthwaite, who found Braun in front of the net. Braun's shot grazed off the hand of 
see SOCCER/page 16 

SMC SOCCER 
Belles set down Flying Dutch 
By KATRINA KAIASKY 
Sport's Writer 
Saturday's 1-0 victory was a sweet one for Saint Mary's. The Belles not only brought home another win. they also defeated a Flying Dutch team that beat them by one goal earlier this season. 
After an early goal, the game was a defensive struggle. Freshman Jen Concannon 
scored the goal 12 minutes into play. Although Hope had more shots on goal, Saint Mary's freshman goalie Maureen MacDonald managed to hold off the Flying Dutch throughout the entire match. 
The last time the two teams faced off, Hope took the game 2-1 at the Belles home field. 
The Belles seem more com­fortable on the road, however. "It was our second away 

see BELLES/page 16 

. ND Hockey vs. Union College, Thursday, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. ND Volleyball vs. Villanova, Thursday, 4 p.m.
SPORTS 
on line classifieds 
. Men's Swimming vs. Kalamazoo, Thursday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Soccer at West Virginia, Thursday, 7 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 

O
THE 

Monday, October 8, 2001 BSERVER Notre Dame 24, Pittsburgh 7 
-


·1na 

lnsh make big plays and get big breaks as they earn their first win ofthe season 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
With a little more than three minutes remaining in 
the third quarter Saturday afternoon, everything 
seemed destined to fall apart once again for the Irish 
football team. 
\iVith the Irish leading 10-7, Pittsburgh quarterback 
David Priestley completed a 20-yard pass to R.J. 
English to give the Panthers first-and-10 at the Irish 
26-yard line. 
The next play, Priestley hit English at midfield with 
nothing in front of him but the endzone. But then, with 
Pittsburgh just a yard away from taking a 13-10 lead, 
something happened. 
The football slipped away from English's hands mid­stride and fell right into the hands of Irish defensive back Abram Elam at the 1-yard line. 
"At that point they were going in there for the go­
ahead touchdown," Irish head coach B'ob Davie said. 
"The next thing you know, we're going the other way 
with the ball." 
Three plays later, Irish quarterback Carlyle Holiday slipped through the Panthers' defense, broke two tack­les and sprinted 67 yards into the endzone to give the Irish a 17-10 lead. 
"They sort of stretched the offense out and I just sort of cut back. I thought I was down, but I just kept on going, rushing out of there," Holiday said. "It caught me by surprise." 
Notre Dame added a fourth-quarter touchdown by Julius Jones, his second of the game, for a 24-7 victory, Notre Dame's first of the season. 
"I told our team, 'Sometimes it gets worse before it gets better,"' Davie said. "Let's face it, that's what this game is. Strange things can happen. Momentum's a funny thing." 
For an Irish team coming into Saturday's game 0-3 for the first time in its storied history. the change in momentum was just what the doctor ordered. 
"After the game, you don't need to say much," Davie said. "Those hugs and those smiles say about all that needs to be said. I'm not going to get too dramatic about it; we're a 1-3 football team. But it's a heck a lot better than being an 0-4 football team." 
The positives began on Pittsburgh's first possession of the game. In each of Notre Dame's three losses, the opposing team scored on its opening drive. Saturday, Pittsburgh got only three plays of before Priestley's deep second-and-18 pass fell right into Elam 's hands. 
Elam's interception would be the first of five turnovers converted by the Irish offense on the after• noon. Elam's recovered fumble, along with intercep­tions by Shane Walton and Anthony Weaver and a recovered fumble by Courtney Watson provided the Irish with solid field position and kept a potentially potent Panther offense away from the end zone. 
Weaver added three tackles for a loss and one of Notre Dame's three quarterback sacks. 
"For us, it's about creating turnovers on defense," Davie said. "When you play two straight games without a turnover, I think the offense -they're not going to back away from the heat they've got ... But we deserve on defense a bunch of that heat because we didn't gen­erate any turnovers. It was good to see that happen. Guys made plays." 
On the offensive side of the ball, Holiday provided the Irish with a spark both with his arms and his legs while for the team and the Notre Dame community as a Notre Dame·s coach has the ability to come out on top. taking every snap in his second start. The sophomore whole, the Irish quarterback felt the weight of getting "I think it's pretty simple to see what kind of plan we rushed for a game-high 122 yards on 19 carries while his first career victory off his back. have to have to win a football game," Davie said of his completing 10 of 13 pass attempts for 70 yards. "Ifs a big win," Holiday said. "Ifs my first win. I've team's ability to make plays and not turn the ball over. 
"I felt pretty comfortable at the start" Holiday said. just got to keep moving on from here. It took a lot off "As you look back over the beginning of the season "As the game went on, I started to slow things down a me as well as the team." until right now obviously this is the first time that we've 

little bit when I was out there. It sort of got me going." Davie simply saw the win as evidence that a team he been able to follow the plan." While Holiday stressed the significance of the victory has touted as the "most talented" in his five years a~ 
Contact Noah Amstadter at A.mstadter.l@nd.edu. 



player of the game 
quote of the game 
stat of the game 
Carlyle Holiday 
"At that point they were going in 
5 turnovers 
The sophomore quarterback looked 
there for the go-ahead touchdown. 
Hands down. the defense won 
like a different, more mature 
The next thing you know, we·re 
the game for the Irish. They 
going the other way with the ball . .,
player. He threw the ball well. ran 
caused key turnovers that killed 
it well. and sealed the game with 
BobDavie 

Panther drives left and right ­
his 67-yard touchdown jaunt. 
Irish head coach 
including a fumble on the Irish 1. 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 8, 2001 
report card 
quarterbacks: Holiday looked mature ­A he threw the ball away instead of tak­ing the sack. He was effective running the ball and his 67-yard dash was the clinching score. 
B+ 
running backs: Aside from Fisher's big run, the tailbacks didn't do anything special. But Fisher and Jones did 
average 3.6 yards a carry. 
B+ 
receivers: They only dropped one pass all day, but they didn't make a big play. Of course, most of their routes 
were short eight-yard patterns. 
B+ 
offensive line: They were shaky early, allowing Holiday to take pressure. But as the game wore on, the offen­
sive line simply manhandled Pitt's 
defensive front. 

A 
defensive line: When Weaver gets an interception, you know things are going well. The defensive line simply 
shut down Pitt's running game, giv­
ing up only 81 yards. 
B 
linebackers: Since the Irish used nickel and dime packages, the linebackers weren't on the field much. But when 
they were, they played aggressive and 
swarmed the ball carrier. 
A-
defensive backs: Two interceptions and a hand in a pair of fumble recoveries is the sign of a good day. Although poor cover­
-age allowed Bryant's touchdown. they controlled Pitt's passing game. 
B-
special teams: Hildbold shanked his first punt and the return game was once again a non-factor. But Setta was solid 
again, this time drilling a 40-yarder. 
B+ 
coaching: For the first time this sea­son, the Irish looked well coached and well prepared. Using more than 
four defensive backs was a good 
move to contain Pitt's passing game. 
overall: The Irish played well, but it's hard to say how well because Pitt played horribly. 
3.41 

Harris' play calling made Davie look like a genius. 
adding up· the numbers 
number of points the Irish 
had scored before Saturday's 
23
game 

24 
number of points the Irish scored Saturday 
number of turnovers Notre 
2 

Dame's defense forced before Saturday. 
5 
Number of turnovers the Irish forced Saturday. 
Number of Irish defenders on the field when Pittsburgh 
10
scored its lone touchdown 

number of yards Holiday ran for on his touchdown -the longest
I. 67 
by an Irish quarterback since 1980 
yard line where Notre Dame recovered English's fumble 
1 

13 
29 
time elasped since
1.• Notre Dame last held a lead before scoring first Saturday 
INSIGHT 

They finally found The Big Play. 
And they didn't find just one. They didn't find two. They found a whole bunch of them. 
Who knows where they came from? Was it 
Bob Davie sit­ting in on the offensive meet­ings? Did he reach behind Kevin Rogers' ear and pull out A Big Play? Or was it divine 


providence that caused R.J. Andrew Soukup English to flat out drop the 
Associate

ball on the 1­
yard line? Sports Editor Nobody knows. Nobody cares. The Big Play happened, and that's all that mattered. All season long, the Irish had been missing The Big Play. They hadn't completed a pass for more than 20 yards. They only had one run for more than 30. And the defense had caused a whopping two turnovers. But that all changed Saturday. Who could explain what hap­pened when English caught the ball, turned for the endzone, and simply dropped the ball? He wasn't hit. He wasn't even touched. But when the ball popped out ofhis hands and into the hands of Abe Elam, the Irish finally made a Big Play. "I felt like we won the game there," Tyreo Harrison said. "That was definitely the momentum­changing play. Abe was in the right place at the right time. Sometimes the sun shines on you." "At that point they were going in there for the go-ahead touch­
down," Davie said. "The next thing you know, we're going the other way with the ball. Let's face it, that's what this game is. Strange things can happen." 
How important are those Big Plays the Irish were dearly miss­ing? They fire up a team. They rile up an offense. They jack up a defense. They excite a crowd. 
In short, they change the course of the game. 
So when Tony Fisher took the handoff three yards deep in his own end zone and blasted through the Pittsburgh secondary, the Irish had another Big Play on their hands. There was nothing between Fisher and the longest rushing play in Notre Dame's 113 years of football except for 80 yards of slightly trampled grass -and a • bum knee which brought him tum­bling to the ground around the 30 yard line. 
After the game. Fisher wasn't upset he was caught from behind. He wasn't upset that he was hurt. He wanted to make The Big Play. 
"We need big plays as possible." he said. "Carlyle could do it, I could do it, anyone could do it. It doesn't matter who does it as long as it helps the team." 
Two plays later, Holiday did it. 
He broke through the defensive line, twisted his way past the line­backers, powered through the sec­ondary, and was off and running. Sixty-seven yards later, the Biggest of Big Plays was in the history books. 
Everyone wanted a piece of Carlyle's Big Play. As soon as he saw Holiday take off down the field, Javin Hunter raced down the field, throwing a block on a safety that should have been called a clip. David Givens was throwing blocks on everyone and their mothers. The Notre Dame sideline erupted. Davie actually smiled during a football game. 
"I felt a little bit of a surge on the sideline during that third and fourth quarter," Davie said Sunday afternoon. 
That's what The Big Play does. It creates momentum shifts. It alters games. It demoralizes and inspires players. 
"Momentum's a funny thing," Davie said. "Momentum you can all talk about and plan. But momentum comes your way when you have guys step up and make big plays. That's what happened today." 
There were other Big Plays besides the fumble and the big runs. Elam's interception in the first quarter marked the first time an opponent didn't score on their first drive this season.-A play after officials blew a fumble call, Shan'b Walton forced Antonio Bryant to ­fumble the ball, killing another Pittsburgh scoring drive. Weaver's interception in the fourth quarter unnerved the Panthers. Walton's pick in the fourth quarter sealed the game for the Irish. A grand total of five -count 'em, five ­turnovers. 
"That's the one thing our defense was missing this year," said Rocky Boiman. "We hadn't really created any turnovers or any sparks out there, and we did that today." 
By making those Big Plays, the Irish shut down the Panthers. By making those Big Plays, the Irish gained confidence. By making those Big Plays, the Irish looked like a football team again. 
By making those big plays, the Irish won the game. But then again, that's the nature of The Big Play. It wins games. 
You can't coach it. You can't pre­pare for it. You can only hope to find it. 
Saturday afternoon, the Irish did. 
Andrew Soukup can be reached at asoukup@nd.edu. The views of this column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Monday, October 8, 2001 page 3 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Keys to success don't change from year to year 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The date was October 6, 2001, but it might have well been October 6, 2000. 
With a win against Pittsburgh, the Notre Dame football team finally returned to its 2000 formula: win the turnover battle, let the defense make big plays and run the ball until opposing linebackers are seeing Julius Jones and Tony Fisher in their nightmares. 
"This is the first time we've followed the plan," said head coach Bob Davie. "It was a lot like last year's team." 
Turnovers 
One of the most quoted statis­tics concerning Irish football this season was the team's poor minus-seven turnover margin. Notre Dame only turned the ball over an NCAA record-tying eight times last year. 
"For us, it's all about forcing turnovers," Davie said after the game. "The offense has been taking most of the heat, you know the defense deserved 
some  heat  because  they  
weren'.t  generating  any  
turnovers."  

Before Saturday, the Irish defense had created just a pair of turnovers. Strong safety Abram Elam had two turnovers alone against Pittsburgh. 
"We got back to the style of defense we played last year. we got back to that this year and forced some turnovers," said senior defensive end Anthony Weaver. 
While the defense hasn't been the turnover machine .they were last year, the offense hadn't done its part controlling the ball either. The Irish offense had been averaging three turnovers a game, a fig­ure even great defenses have a hard time matching to keep the turnover margin equal. 
Notre Dame's turnovers played into the emotion and momentum of the game, just as they did last year. When Elam recovered Panther receiver R.J. English's fumble at the goal line, Pittsburgh was about to take the third quarter momen­tum as well as a four-point lead against an Irish team that is, put lightly, offensively chal­lenged. 
"I was just trying to show emotion to get everybody fired up to go out and win this game," said Elam. 
Elam accomplished his mis­sion. The Irish then drove 99 yards in what Pittsburgh coach Walt Harris recognized was the turning point of the game. 
"We came right back very strong on the drive after Notre Dame took the lead on their field goal," said Harris. "We still found ourselves coming up short ... the momentum went to them." 
Big Plays on Defense 
Weaver took making plays on defense to a new level against the Panthers. In addition to harassing Pittsburgh's quarter­backs on almost every play, Weaver made the one of the most athletic plays the Irish have made this season, leaping up to pick off David Priestley's fourth-quarter pass. 
Priestley was as surprised as anyone that it was even possi­ble for Weaver to make the play. 
"You don't account for those guys," said Priestley. "He just made a hell of a play. I couldn't believe it when it happened." 
\Vith the Panthers driving in the second quarter, senior cor­nerback Shane Walton had another standout big play. Pittsburgh receiver Antonio Bryant caught the pass over the middle, but Walton was able to knock the ball loose to be recovered by Courtney Watson on the type of play that was common in 2000, when the Irish forced 19 fumbles, but not one year later. 
Running the Ball 
Last year, Notre Dame was a running team. The Irish relied on the running game to set up an efficient, controlled, first­down orientated passing attack run by a first year starter, 
Against Pittsburgh, it was much of the same. Notre Dame had a dominating 249 yards on the ground and just 70 in the air. Carlyle Holiday missed just three passes the whole game and converted on key plays, like his eight-yard strike to David Givens on fourth-and-six. 

But for-most of the game, the Irish did not have to rely on Holiday's arm, just his feet. For the most part, the Irish ran the option effectively. with consis­tent four and five yard gains. 

The Irish did not rely so much on 40 yard explosions down the sideline as Fisher and Jones being unremarkably effective gaining four and five yards. 
"It was all about going out there and establishing the run and the pass," said Fisher. 
"Today. we just went out there and executed a heck of a lot better than we had in the previ­ous games." 
And they looked like the 2000 Irish that went 9-2. 
· Contact Jeff Baltruzak at jbaltrul@nd.edu. 
r:?:1,::??{<-::ttf)~~..,~tJ:*~:::•-::,: · ··:· :-· --~,;#l,::--. ·· -; .::-::·.:: :;r~;:;:;:i><mf·-•.::
scoring summary & stats 
E$RNz'USA. TodayipQll..
AP poll 


scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
Notre Dame 7 0 10 7 24 0 7 0 0 7
Pittsburgh team statistics ND PITT
rl~!tif. 7~:cf~t~t .. 
first downs 18 15
4 Nebraska (2f ·· lt-0 · 1,577 ~it 
rushes-yards 57-249 26-50
5 Oregon 5--0 t.437 6 Vlginia Teclt 5'-0 1,421 passing yards 70 182 7 UCLA 4·0.. 11369 comp-att-int 10-13-0 11-22-3 8 Fresno State {1) 5-0 · t,240 return yards 4-48 5-59 9 SouttrCaronna 5'-0 · ~ ,160 punts-yards 6-196 4-184 10 · Washington 4•0 /...1,148 
fumbles-lost 2-0 2-2 
11 Texas" · 4-1~;:;:;':,t;&~~ 1,128 
penalties-yards 6-52 2-8
12 Michigan 4•F ·· 978 . 
time of possession 37:23 22:37
13 Tennessee 3·1 790 14 Florida State . 3•1 756 individual statistics 15 Georgia Tech 4•1 670 · passing 
16 Clemson 3~1 529 ND -Holiday 10-13-0 
17 Purdue 4•0 509 PITT -Priestly 10-19-2, Rutherford 1-3-1 18 BYU 5-0 480 19 GJQrgla 3·l 443 rushing 
20 · Colorado 44 .· · 39 ND -Holiday 19-122, Jones 25-71, Fisher 10-57, Howard 2-3, 21 · Ohio Stale 3-1 381 Lopienski 1-0 
22. Maryland 5·0 36() PITT -Kirkley 19-36, Rutherford 3-19, Priestly 4·(·5) 23 Stanford 3-0 299 
receiving

24 Kansas State 2·2 247 
ND -Givens 5-39, Hunter 3-23, Jenkins 1-10, Fisher 1-(-2)
25 Texas A&M 5-0 203 
PITT -Bryant 6-95, English 2-45, Wilson 2-32, Vaglla 1-10 
other leading vote getters: Northwestern 192, leading tacklers
Washington Stale 172, Toledo 156, LSU 49, Michigan 
ND -Harrison 6, Weaver 5, Earl 4, Watson 4, Walton 4,
State 43, minoJ• 29, NOTRE O.A~E 0 
Campbell 4 

PITT -Walker 10, Purifoy 8, Hayes 7, Knight 6, Ponko 6 
rii(;:'

scoring summary ~;;;•• .•....•.:·r•.· '.illilit~'1...... ···••.··.·•····•'·•··•·tecot•·· ·?•ijij9Wt•··...·· 1st 
!:': ~ ;::+Ii.:~i~m.~~~*~r; ....:: }:;;;\ ~~~;: ,;~49 < · 
•
ND· 3:31 
Jones 2-yd. run ;. ·3 ···• Oklahoma (tO) i. < · · , ijl"(J .. . ,. .h ;,fl
;,,~ •••.• 

Sella kick, 7-0 •<<4 ·..·.·•.····· •· Nebraika . 6~0 ill1tf\ ' :1,325 s v1ro1n1a'J'ih · s~o .· , .1,22s 
6 · · · Oregon · ··· 5·0 •· i@ 1,184
2nd 

7 UCLA ... 4·0 1,131 
ND· 6:57 
8 Washlngtoo .··.• . . 4·0 ···· 1~061. · 
Bryant 32-yd. pass lrom Prteslly 9 South caronoa 5•0. 930 · 
Lotz kick, 7-7 
< 10 ) Fresn.o.~t .} 5-0 927 
rg~1'••••.11•••··• ···•.·..·i'i!:f~~l .............,.....,...•,·t•••·.·•·••···.· .. ··•·•·.•:•.•••:·•••!:~..•.. ·....... ·•.•• .,(:••••• :~:· 3rd 13 · flodda Slate · .· . . :,.:1 .759 14 Tennessee 3-1 ·· 650 · 
ND· 6:05 
FG Sella 15 Georgia Tech .4·1 618 
40 yd., 10-7 
16 · Purdue 4-0 548
ND -1:06 
17 BYU 5·0 515
Holiday 67•yd. run Salta kick, 17-7 . 18 Clemson 3·1 388 
19 Texas A&M ••.···· s~o . 329 20 ..•· Marv1aµd <> ·s~o .. . 298 · 21 . Kansas Stale 2~2 ·• 215 
4th 

22 · Stanford 3·0 · .·· 21 o 
ND -13:07 
23 Toledo 5-0 <193
Jones 1-yd. run 
24 Northwestent 3-1 · 177
Salta klck, 24-7 
25 Ohio State 3-1 171 
other' leading vote getters: Colorado 164, , Washington Sta~ 124, LSU 46, IIUnola 29, Michigan i State 19. Auburn 18, Marshall 17, HOTHE DAME 0 

r-J_HE 

Notre Dame 24, Pittsburgh 7 VHSERVER M_onday, October 8, 2001 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 

Pittsburgh receiver Antonio Bryant gets hit hard by four Notre Dame defenders after catching the ball. 
BIG PLAYS EQUAL BIG WIN 
LISA VEL TE/The Observer 

Notre Dame tailback Tony Fisher grimaces as he runs down the field. Fisher hurt his knee on the play. Had Fisher scored, it would have been the longest touchdown play from scrimmage In Notre Dame history. 
Three plays into Pittsburgh's first offensive drive, Abe Elam intercepted David Priestly's pass, setting the tone for the rest of the game. When the clock hit 0:00, the Irish had forced five turnovers, including a momentum-changing fumble on the Notre Dame one;.yard line. The offense also played well, racking up 319 yards in total offense and putting 24 points on the board -doubling their season total. 
r/l 
'
I ' ) 








