
World joins the U.S. in mourning
SHOWERS 
Thursday 
Memorials across the globe have been erected to show support for the 
HIGH 70° 
SEPTEMBER 13,
victims of Tuesday's destruction of the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. 
LOW 47° 
World & Nation . page 5 
2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 13 

A NATION SH~ 
• Death toll estimates rise as second day comes to an end 
Associated Press 
NEWYORK 
With too many people missing for an accurate death count to begin, officials did their best Wednesday to calculate the toll from the World Trade Center attacks. 
A frantic search was under way for the names of confirmed survivors so officials could begin to guess the number of dead. 
"The best estimate we can make is that there will be a few thousand left in each building," Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said Wednesday. 
Asked about a report that the city had requested 6,000 body bags from federal officials, he replied, "Yes, I believe thafs correct." 
Because of the difficulty of dig­ging through the rubble, only 82 fatalities had been confirmed as of Wednesday. Airline officials said another 157 people were on the two planes that smashed into the towers. 
The mayor said 202 firefight­ers and 57 police officers, as well as the World Trade Center's head of security, were among the missing. 
In Tuesday's other terror attacks, there were 45 people aboard a plane that was hijacked and crashed into a field in Pennsylvania 
At the Pentagon, the military services said about 150 people -mostly Army soldiers -were unaccounted for, along with 64 passengers and crew from the plane that crashed into the building. 



HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

ERED 
. FBI looks at bin Laden, Boston connections to terrorist attacks 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden has strong family ties and a group of supporters in Boston, where the two hijacked airliners that demolished the World Trade Center took off. 
One of bin Laden's brothers set up scholarship funds at Harvard, while another relative owns six condominiums in an expensive complex in the Charlestown section of Boston. Two bin Laden associates once worked as Boston cab drivers, including one who was jailed in Jordan on charges of plotting to blow up a hotel full of Americans and Israelis. 
bin Laden's ties to Boston are now being closely scrutinized as authorities focus their investi­gation on terrorist cells with possible ties to him, said Robert Fitzpatrick, the former second­in-command at the FBI's Boston office. 
"The activity of this group here is obviously significant," Fitzpatrick said Wednesday. 
Investigators are interviewing drivers from Boston Cab Co., where two known associates of bin Laden once worked, to see if they had ties to baggage han­dlers, who in turn may have supplied weapons to the hijack­ers, Fitzpatrick said. 
"They are going to look at the cab drivers again -since they are predominantly Middle Eastern -and they are going to 
• look at a possible link between them and the baggage han­dlers," Fitzpatrick said. 
ND, SMC work to identify alumni in tragedies 
ByJASON McFARLEY News Editor 
A day after terrorist strikes in New York and Washington, nei­ther Notre Dame nor Saint Mary's officials confirmed Wednesday that alumni of either school were killed or injured in the attacks. 
The schools are traditionally well-represented in both cities. 
Spokespeople at the University and the College said Wednesday that they were unable to compile complete lists of graduates or their families who lived and worked in the cities. 
"We want to offer sympa-See Also 
thy and sup­port," said SMC alumnae Melanie witness national 
Engler, Saint 
tragedies

Mary's direc­tor of public page3 relations, "And we also want to know how they're doing." 
"The first thing that comes to people's mind when there's a tragedy isn't to let your alma mater know how you're doing," she said. 
Engler said the College's alum­nae relations and public relations offices worked together Tuesday to draft for media a list of about 100 alumnae who possibly live in the New York or Washington areas. 
She said Saint Mary's officials did not know how many alumnae worked in or were connected to the collapsed World Trade Center towers in New York or the Pentagon in Washington. 

The Notre Dame Alumni Association Oflice's most current records list business addresses in the World Trade Center for 98 University graduates and in the Pentagon for 127 alumni. 
University records also indicate that 32 parents of current stu­dents work in the World Trade Center and 14 in the Pentagon. 
"We haven't heard of any deaths yet," said Charles Lennon Jr., associate vice president for University relations. "We're just going on the addresses we have on file. This doesn't take into consideration how many people moved or transferred." 
Officials at both schools expect to boost efforts to contact alumni and their families. 
Engler said Saint Mary's will send a brief letter to alumnae in New York and Washington to ensure they were unharmed Tuesday. 
Notre Dame will today call 
see ALUMNI/page4 


page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 

The attack on our 
way of life 

It's everyvvhere, we cannot escape it. You have 
read and heard everyone's opinion on the terrible 
events that have transpired throughout the conti­
nental U.S. You now read mine not to gain more 
knowledge about the ugliness, v. Van Buren 
but more for my own need to GIi 
put this matter t.o rest. es 
My mother works in mid­

Copy Editor
town Manhattan, as do many 
of my friends and relatives. I 

was woken by her hysterical phone call before the 
second plane hit the second tower and before the 
two toughest buildings in the world collapsed. 

Before 10 a.m., my off-campus apartment was flooded with neighbors and friends relaying that classes had been cancelled, but they were staying t.o watch the developments. We sat around the televi­sion much the same way we did on Saturday night as hopeful football fans but this situation was of a much graver reality than school rankings and championship contention. 
No one said anything as television pundits gave their two cents on would-be culprits and primary targets. We were a type of support group, strug­gling with the grim reality that a faceless monster had killed so many of our cmmtrymen and women. 
My eyes were bloodshot from a lack of sleep and my homework was still not completed for my Tuesday classes, but Iwas watching the television screen attentively for any glimmer of strength in the face of this evil. 
I made a valid effort to be productive. but my Tuesday can best be described by my zombie-like appearance when walking through the quad and a state of confusion and bewilderment that still engulfs my mind and body. 
My face was pasted to the TV screen wherever I went; watching the same footage on a plethora of news channels I never knew existed before. It was heartwrenching to witness the multiple camera angles of jumbo jets disappearing into the structures in slow motion and then exploding into fiery balls of hate on the other side. 
I am a native of New York City and I remember vividly the faces of World Trade Center employees blackened from smoke inhalation due to the 1993 attack on the building's parking structure. The ter­rorist scheme that time was to blow up the base of one building, thinking that it would crumble and knock over the second building. The attempt failed and the World Trade Center stood as a symbol of hope that American good and just can withstand the blows of terrorist cowardice. This second attack pre­sented an image of victims fleeing the turmoil cov­ered in a concrete film, begging for water and screaming for answers that continue to elude us. 
We have been in classes for two days now and it is still the only topic of conversation. This is our Pearl Harbor/Kennedy assassination; whichever his­torical event you feel best represents the state of depravity that this country is currently in. Prayers are an order, but swift justice is the only medicine for our country's current illness. 
At a time when a majority of Indiana colleges and universities went on with classes. our glorious institution, along with the rest of the country, shut doWTI. We all watched angrily but patiently as a por­tion of the greatest city on earth breathed smoke into the Tuesday morning air. 
An entire nation is hungry for bloody revenge. In the days after all this terrible destruction, there were still voices of peace and mercy from the NDtSMC community. 
The steel and concrete that once represented the large.st set of buildings on the eastern seaboard are gone. But the limestone brick that we walk in and out of any given day on campus at Notre Dame are still intact. There is something to be said for that. 
As an American. and as a New Yorker. I never thought I could withstand the destruction of the Twin Towers. But the damage has been done, and it is now up to all of us to push on, fight the good fight. and stand up to the indifference of tyranny and oppression. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Vincent. V. Giles.6@nd.edu 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism ac all times. We do, however, recogni:ze thac we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a misuke, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our er.or. 
Th• Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member ofche Associated Pre,s. All rtproduction rights ,ue reserved. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


U. OF CALIFORNIA AT BERKELEY 
Students create Web site for missing 
BERKELEY, Calif 
Following the aftermath of Tuesdays tragic events in New York and Washington, UC Berkeley computer sci­ence students moved quickly to start a Web site where people can search for friends and relativ.es who are known to be safe. The number of entries on the site has more than doubled in less than 24 hours, after it launched only seven hours after the first jet struck the World Trade Center in New York City. Two hours after starting work on the site, it was fully operational, pow­ered by UC Berkeley's Millennium Cluster, a collection of 100 computers designed to operate in parallel. I think everyone was looking for some way to help. Everyone on the West Coast feels very isolated, said Jennifer Mankoff, a UC Berkeley computer science professor who assisted the students who constructed the site. We came up with something to help out. The idea stemmed from Miriam Walker, a UC Berkeley computer science graduate stu­dent, who had members of her co-op borrow her phone to try to call the East Coast. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Thursday ,September I 3, 2001 
The Observer . INSIDE 



Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Movie: "Pollack,"  . Lecture: "Versifying the  . Board Meetings:  . Faculty Recital: .Jeffrey  
showing Carey  Bible in the Middle Ages"  Minority Alumni Network,  Jacob, piano, Moreau  
Auditorium, 1st floor,  Michael Lapidge, Notre  Coleman Morse Center, all  Little Theatre, Saint  
Hesburgh Library, 7p.m.  Dame Professor of  day  Mary's  
English, McKenna Hall,  
Sp.m.  


UNIVERSITY OF UTAH AT SALT LAKE CITY 
Political groups come together 
SALT LAKE CITY 

Unit During a time of major crisis, the media and general public may be prone to pointing fingers as an outlet for their anger and disbelief. In the case of Tuesday's terrorist attacks, however, a theme of American unity has spread across the nation. It's an ideal that will play a key role for President Bush as his foreign policy and administration come into focus. David Busby, president of the College Republicans at the University of Utah, feels that political groups, in particular, must join together in support of the admin­istration. "I'd hate to see a war between Democrats and Republicans. The best thing is for us to come together as Americans and humans," he said. While people may have differing ideologies, too much con­tention will waste time and impede progress, he explained. Arlyn Bradshaw. president of the U's College Democrats, noted that in the past there, hasn't been anything to unify us, so we've been politically divided. 
Compiled from U.Wire reports


BEYOND CAMPUS 
NYU students unscathed in bombing 
NEW YORK "We are not aware ofany killed during or after the attack. We Thousands of New York University are not aware of any injury to any
injury to any member ofthe
students were evacuated from six member of the NYU community, University residence halls Tuesday NYU community. " University Spokes man John Beckman morning, shortly after the south said. New York Police Department tower of the World Trade Center officers told officials in B·roome
John Beckman
crumbled to the ground amid a cloud Street, Lafayette Street. Water Street.
New York University spokesman
of smoke, dust and flame. Both WTC Cliff Street, John Street and The towers were destroyed Tuesday Ocean residence halls to evacuate morning by two hijacked passenger history. In a television interview, students after the destruction of the planes from Boston that were flown Senator John McCain or Arizona said south tower around 10:45 a.m., a directly into each of the towers. In the suicide attacks were an act of war Water Street resident assistant (RA) addition, a third hijacked plane from against the United States. Passenger said. Washington, D.C., was flown into the planes crashed into both buildings It was pandemonium outside," RA Pentagon shortly after takeoff, while around 9 a.m. and by 11 a.m. the Mike Grudzinski said. It was a fourth plane from Newark crashed towers had been reduced to rubble. announced on TV that southern in western Pennsylvania. Government Federal and city officials have not Manhattan was being evacuated but officials have said that all four crash­offered definite estimates of the num­RAs were telling students to wait es are believed to bepart of the same ber of casualties in the attack. NYU because people were running down plot, which is being described as the officials said that no students or staff the street screaming. There was dust worst terrorist attack in United States members were seriously hurt or and soot everywhere, he said. 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 13. 
.....-.-------...........

Cl 2001 Accu'Noalher, lhc. COLO WARM STATIONAl-lY 
r,...u,.: 
® © D D D D CJ . ·... 
High Low Shower• Aaln T•alorm• Fhmlea Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta 82 56 Las Vegas 96 72 Portland 80 55 Baltimore 69 45 Memphis 82 52 Sacramento 87 55 Boston 65 49 MIiwaukee 60 46 St. Louis 71 52 Chicago 64 46 New York 67 49 Tampa 84 74 Houston 86 66 Philadelphia 69 51 Washington DC 72 53 
Thursday, September 13, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

College sends letters to NY, D.C. alumnae 
asking them to let us know how
By MYRA McGRIFF 
they fare." 

Saint Mary's Edicor 
Along with the search for 
loved ones. many are searching 
As black smoke turns gray for peace of mind. They are try­and fires die down, the sun ing to find the ways to put their casts light on the daunting tasks lives in order. ahead in the wake of Tuesday's Marguerite Shoupp, Alumnae terrorist attacks. President for the New York area 
The attacks on New York and and graduate from Saint Washington, D.C. left many Mary's, lives about four miles unknowns, but people do know from the World Trade Center on 
what must be done immediate­the east side. ly. "Third They must street and 
search. "We've heardfrom a few 
Lexington Two days New York alumnae and were very after the quiet.
hey ar fine but we have
World Trade Yesterday I 
Center crum­also had inquires about 
went to the bled to the others." store and ground and the lines the Pentagon were really

Barbara Henry

suffered dam­long and age, people director of alumnae relations shelves are continuing were empty­the search for ing," she victims. said. 
The Alumnae office of Saint Although Shoupp was not Mary's has drafted a letter to directly affected by the blast, the 158 alumna in the New her friend, a 1998 Notre Dame York City area, and the 600 in gradul.e, has found a safe haven the Washington, D.C. area. The at Shoupp's residence. Although 
letter will extend the College's people in her area started back grief and ask to hear from those to work Wednesday, things are Alumnae. not business as usual, she said. 
"We've heard from a few New "It's very sad. Every so often York alumnae and they are fine you see fighter jets fly by. but we have also had inquires [People] are calm -going 
about others," said Barbara about their daily routine just Henry Director of Alumnae letting it all happen," said Relations. "We are sending a Shoupp. letter to all Alumnae in New York and Washington, D.C. to 
Contact Myra McGriff at 
let them know that our thoughts 
mcgr0l8l@saintmarys.edu.
and prayers are with them and 

Campuses return to 'normal' 
By JASON McFARLEY News Editor 

By the time she passed the flag flying at half-staff on South Quad Wednesday on her way to class, Allison Child's mind already had turned to images of fiery plane crashes, collapsed skyscrapers and a deathtoll to match such harrowing destruction. 
It was the stuff of big-budget action movies or even video games, the University junior thought of the devastating terror­ist attacks the day before in New York City and Washington, D.C. 
"You see what happened on TV over and over again," Childs said. "You see all the buildings and all the rubble, but it just doesn't seem real." 
It was. in fact, real enough on Tuesday to prompt Notre Dame and Saint Mary's officials to can­cel classes and all scheduled activities. 
And 24 hours after strikes on New York's World Trade Center towers and the Pentagon in Washington, the aftermath was surreal enough to prevent the campuses from returning to nor­malcy -despite Wednesday's resumption of regular activity at both schools. 
On campuses with many stu­dents, faculty and staff connected to victims in the attacked areas, Tuesday's events have seemingly changed a somber University and College community's opinion of what it meant to be back to nor­mal Wednesday. 
"Normal is certainly going to have quite a different meaning now," said Linda Timm, Saint Mary's vice president for student affairs. 
Oasses were in session at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Wednesday, but both schools can­celed several lectures, meetings and athletic events. 
Following administrators' deci­sion to shut down the campuses Tuesday morning, school officials organized two prayer services at Saint Mary's and a Mass on tho University's South Quad that more than 6,000 people attended. 
The University and College declared Tuesday a day of prayer. 
Throughout the day, members of the camps community remained tuned in to television news broadcasts of the terrorist acts or were seen openly crying or embracing each other. Several students draped U.S. flags out their residence hall windows along with phrases of hope and strength. 
Wednesday's return to class and work provided scant relief from somber reflections on the worst terTorist act on American soil, many said. 
"Everybody's still thinking about it," Childs said. "l thought we shouldn't be at school today. I couldn't even concentrate in class." 
Saint Mary's senior Michelle Nagle said the national crisis dominated class discussion Wednesday. 
"Everyone is still talking about it. You see a lot of students hug­ging and embracing as you're going to class," said Nagle, the College's student body president. "I don't think it's something that you can leave your dorm room and not witness or understand that people are still feeling the effects of." 
Resuming regular campus activity is important for dealing with the tragedy, Timm said. 
She said being in cla'>s allows students to talk about tho events and maybe understand how and why they happened. 
Stuart Greene, a Notre Dame English professor. agreed. 
"On the one hand, people feel the need to get focused and move things along in their classes. Many also feel the need to talk about this situation," said Greene. who planned on allowing his students to di'>cuss the events Wednesday night. 
"But not everyone knows how to talk about it. I'm still trying to believe that this bas actually occurred. We've never seen any­thing of this magnitude in this country. It's amazing to see the city turned upside down like that," Greene said of his native New York. 
Childs described the atmos­phere on campus Wednesday as "a kind of morbid sadness." 
"Even though I don't have any connections to people in those areas, I feel just as deeply," she said. 
That's representative of atti­tudes on both campuses where students, faculty and staff have come together amid crisis, Nagle said. 
"It's great and it's a tragedy that something like this can bring a community together," she said. 
And bring the community to a collective realization. 
''There's going to be a bit more of a heightened awareness from now on," Timm said. "Everyone is generally aware now of the fragility of complacency." 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 



Thursdays are 
~~d·••·•••·•lf lata
CRAZIER 
than Anne Neche. :n=ill~,t 
. .. is what you'll be if you wait 'til next week to make your football 
weekend dinner plans. 
Call to reserve your table today! 
OPEN FOR LATE NIGHT DINING FRIDAY & SATURDAY, TOO. 
Prime banquet space for your private party. 10-1000 guests. 
Bring Your College ID · Must Be 21 222 S. Michigan South Bend 
HEARTLAND:; 222 S. MICHIGAN:; SOUTH BEND:: 219.234.5200 219.234.5200 
HEARTLANOSOUTHBENO.COM 
page 4 Thr Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 13, 2001 
SMC receives grant for teaching program 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
News Writer 
With nearly $122,000 in grant money, the education department at Saint Mary's has teamed up with nine area, public and private schools to improve student achievement through more effective teach­ing. 
"Saint Mary's College was fortunate enough to be one of the few colleges who received this grant," said Marie Doyle, chair of the education depart­ment. 
The funds for this project became available under Title 11, a• federal money block grant. Indiana state govern­ment was left with the respon­sibility of distributing these funds. The state is utilizing the grant to implement P.L.221; a law aimed at increasing school accountabil­ity and continued improve­ment of test scores. 
Last year, the education department developed a coop­erative council to study the program. The council consist­ed of faculty members, educa­tors from local schools and education majors. 
The council discussed, "Indiana's vision of excellence for reforming teaching and learning," comprised of stu­dent and teaching standards, beginning the teacher induc­tion performance assessment program, continuing educa­tion and license renewal. 
Each school is partnering so that teachers, Saint Mary's professors and student teach­ers will become involved in 

the classroom from the ele­mentary to the collegiate level. 
This will stop the lack of communication between the two levels of learning and bet­ter prepare student teachers for the transition to the real world. 
Ooyle reflected on this movement of increased accountability at every level. 
"Teaching will not chango unless we change the way we educate teachers. We have spoken about this for a long time and I don't know if things will change if we don't come together with a common vision," she said. 
The progress of the program will be followed by site-based coordinators who will collect data. It will be used to make reports at each advisory board meeting, which meets four times a year. This ensures that project activities stay focused on the quality of the teachers and that children arc benefiting. 
"The performance of stu­dents [children] will be tracked by the individual schools, this will allow us to see, most importantly, specifi­cally how children learn." said Doyle. 
The Saint Mary's Education Department hopes to continue the close association with local schools, even after the two-year grant expires. 
They believe that being involved in the professional and school development will aid the students. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu. 

Attacks suggest intelligence holes 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
Assistant News Editor 

As the world watched New 
York and Washington, D.C. 
under attack by terrorists, it 
wondered how hijackers could 
go undetected by United States 
intelligence. 

There are questions con­.cerning whether the United 
States' addiction to new tech­
nology has lead to the neglect 
of the day-by-day human intel­
ligence that might have pre­
vented a sophisticated, but 
technologically basic, act of 
terrorism. 

However, no matter how 
much money is spent on intelli­
gence, some scholars wonder 
whether another catastrophe 
like Tuesday's can be prevent­
ed. 

"We could spend another bil­
lion dollars on intelligence, but 
we couldn't end it," said Louis 
Ayala, assistant professor of 
government. 

One or the problems is that 
the terrorist groups from the 
Middle East do not operate in 
ways Americans would expect. 
"Part of tho problem is that 
they are not organized in the 
same manner we would expect 
in the western world. They're 
not hard core KKK or militia 
groups, [but rather) family or 
clan based so they're going to 
be harder [for intelligence 
agents] to get involved with," 
said Ayala. 

Regardless of the inherent 
difficulty posed by these types 
of terrorists groups, many 
across the nation are calling 
for an increase in intelligence 
spending. 

"We're going to spend more 
money in it, if anything from political pressure. But no amount of money is going to be able to stop a determined ter­rorist from attacking an open society like ours," said Ayala. 
Another obstacle for intelli­gence expansion comes from within. 
"The current ClA director has embraced the new policy not to have {intelligence mem­bers] who have been involved in terrorist groups or who have criminal records," said Ayala. 
Some senators claim this is a reason why the United States doesn't have an extensive human intelligence. 
To increase human intelli­gence, the government needs to be prepared to deal with sources of information that are not entirely clean, according to Ayala. 
Without enough human intel­ligence, the government some­times relics on others outside of the government. 
"Often they have to [turn tol other people for advise ­scholars, independent experts and in some cases, even jour­nalists who have extensively traveled the region," said Kevin Christiano associate sociology professor. 
Since Afghanistan is neither safe nor welcoming for Americans, it is more difficult to gather information in a country that is not as open as the United States. 
"One of the problems we have is that we're an open society," Christiano said. 
Not only is the gathering of information a large challenge, but also finding further finan­cial support and future agents might be a challenge. 
"The tendency of lay people is to think -oh, James Bond -but this job is to have a sense of how things will change in the future, reading the paper, and talking to peo­ple," said Christiano. "This type of intelligence gathering is unglamorous and there's a tendency [by the public] to overlook intelligence. lt's. not as glamorous as a high-tech satellite." 
With its current intelligence, the government has been cur­rently targeting intelligence towards Asia and the Middle East, foreseeing possible con­flicts with involved nations. 
"There is a naval war college in the West Coast where they bring in academics and then they bring military officers from the U.S. and around the world who do research on mili­tary preparedness. They've been moving away from stud­ies of European interests to the study of Asia and the Middle East," said Ayala. 
Christiano agrees. 
"There are many places troubled in the world and it's important to understand what motivates people." 
In America's history. the government has overlooked regions. 
The United States was taken by surprise by the outcome of the Islamic Revolution in Iran in 1979. 
"We weren't adequately pay­ing attention to the Islamic world, generally speaking," he said. "But the lack of a defined adversary may mean it is hard to pin point what they should investigates-what point of the world people should be study­ing." 
Contact Maribel Morey at morey.4@nd.edu. 


Dame graduates in the cities. "All of our clubs are standing
Alu01ni 

ready to help if they can," Lennon said. 
continued from page 1 

Alumni club officers in New home and work phone numbers York and Washington couldn't of alumni based in either city, be reached for comment Lennon said. Wednesday. 
He said alumni clubs in New York and Washington will soon 

Contact Jason McFarley at begin efforts to contact Notre mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 

s 

-Fresh Fruit Smoothies 

-Hand Dipped Ice Cream ~r-'-',11. -Live Music Daily at Lunch Friday & · Saturday Night -It's Kennedy! ~"f,\\i~ -I 000 magazines & Best-Sellers ,.,,;.£,'1~-Weekend Outdoor Grill 
· -Thurs -Sat/Nights, All Day Sun & Gamedays 
1/2 lb Sirloin Burgers, Brats, Chops, FAK & Great Steaks PHONE 24)-9274 -----:----
24l-'U7l 
eistler Now 
Hiring 
Sate Rd. 23 at Ironwood 

FREE LUl"CHTIME DEUVERYt 
Bring a copy of this ad in for a free 32 oz drink with the purchase of any sandwich or pizza 
Still looking for a place to warm up for Heartland? 
0 
,-t 
0 
Clzeck cud: t/ze 11~-Semrn e~ 




Pre•Heartland Party 

Karaoke, 9-midnight Tons of Specials that will get you primed for the bump and grind 
10 Lifetime Membership Special -Final Weeki I I Check out www.nd.edu/~asc for more info Must be 21 with valid ID to enter. 


Wq,RL 
ATION 
Thursday, September 13, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD News BRIEFS 
Canadian border remains open: 
Long lines and stringent searches slowed traf­fic along the U.S.-Canadian border Wednesday, but vehicles moved freely in both directions a day after the worst terrorist attack in U.S. history. Officials warned the world's longest undefended border would be more tightly patrolled and travelers should expect to wait for hours. At some crossings, lines of vehicles stretched for miles. At others,· traffic moved with minimal delays. 

Europeans tighten airport security: 
Passengers at European airports faced heightened security checks Wednesday as officials sought measures to prevent terrorists from repeating devastating attacks that halt­ed air traffic in the United States and over the Atlantic. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Court denies request to halt Va. law: The Supreme Court's chief justice refused Wednesday to stop Virginia from requiring students to start their day with a minute of silence. The court may still consider a constitutional challenge of the practice. "There is no allegation that Virginia school­teachers have used the minute of silence, or any other occasion, to lead students in collec­tive prayer," Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote. 
Convicted murderer escapes in Texas: A convicted murderer serving a life term escaped from a state prison Wednesday and was believed to have stolen a pickup truck that contained a rifle and 500 rounds of ammunition. Harold Laird, 26, should be con­sidered armed and dangerous, said Texas Department of Criminal Justice spokesman Larry Fitzgerald. Laird was convicted of killing a man during a 1992 beating and shooting. 

INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Bloomington drops plan for gun range: Officials have dropped plans to put a police gun range at a sewage treatment plant on the city's rural north side. Neighbors near the ·proposed site of the gun range said it would disturb the peace and quiet of the rural area, reducing property values and causing safety risks and lead pollution. Critics said the shooting would disturb a nearby wildlife refuge, including a nesting site for great blue herons. Fernandez said the money that had been earmarked for a firing range would be transferred to the city sanitation department. 
Market Watch September 12 

Due to the ongoing tragedy in New York City, U.S. financial markets are closed. They will reopen on Friday, Sept. 14, at the earliest. 

GREAT BRITAIN 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Church bells pealed, flags stood at half-staff, and con­ferences. con certs and sports matches were can­celed Wednesday as coun­tries contemplated a world utterly changed by the deadly terrorist attacks on the United States. 
Even nations that have been at odds with the United States denounced the attacks. 
North Korea called the attacks "tragic," adding that it "is opposed to all forms of terrorism." The 
U.S. State Department lists North Korea among seven national "sponsors of ter­rorism." 
Libya, Syria, Sudan and Iran -all of which are accused by the United States of sponsoring terror­ism -also condemned the attacks. 
"Irrespective of the con ­flict with America it is a human duty to show sym­pathy with the American people, and be with them at these horrifying and awesome events which are bound to awaken human conscience," Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi said. 
Syrian President Bashar Assad sent a condolence message to the White House, calling for "world cooperation to eradicate all kinds of terrorism." 
However, an Iraqi state­run newspaper described the attacks as due punish­ment. "Now, America is gaining the frµits of its worldwide crime," al-Iraq newspaper said Wednes­day. 
In the hours after the attack, Iraqi television played a patriotic song that began "Down with America!" as it showed the towers collapsing. 
Radical groups behind attacks on Israeli civilians were at pains to distance themselves from the devas­tating events in New York and Washington. Hamas, Islamic Jihad and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine all denied responsibility. 
Addressing his weekly general audience in St. Peter's Square, Pope John Paul II told Americans that "those who believe in God know that evil and death do not have the final say." 
Offers of solidarity came from around the world. 
"In the darkest hours of European history, America stood close with us," European Commission President Romano Prodi said, referring to U.S. intervention during the two World Wars. "Today we stand close by America." 

SWITZERLAND 
WTO postpones decision on China 
Jbsociated Pren 
GENEVA 

Negotiators still shocked by images of the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington decided Wednesday to postpone a decision on admitting China to the World Trade Organization. 
"Such a big thing happened. This kind of thing compared with that kind of thing -we have to reschedule," said Chinese chief negotiator Long Yongtu. 
WTO spokesman Keith Rockwell said that there would be further infor­mal meetings Thursday to resolve final differences over China's admit­tance, an informal group meeting on Priday and then the formal session on Monday. 
The decision means that a meeting planned for Friday to admit Taiwan will also be put off until next week. It was agreed in 1992 that Taiwan could not become a member ahead of China. 
The U.S. Mission to international organizations in Geneva remained open Wednesday with a skeleton staff. 
"We aren't going to be very active today because of the circumstances," somber U.S. officials said. 
Diplomats originally had a self­imposed deadline of Thursday for completing works on the terms of China's membership, but the attacks made it difficult for U.S. negotiators to get guidance from Washington. 
page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 13, 2001 
STUDENT SENATE 
Senators discuss terrorist attacks 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Assodare News Ed.iror 
Like much of the Notre Dame student body, the Student Senate spent part of Wednesday discussing Tuesday's 
violence in New York City and Wash-ing­ton, D.C. 
"I think it was really, really inspiring 


for every-"' Norton one to be at the Mass yesterday," said Sorin senator Pat 1-lallahan. 
He encouraged his fellow senators to continue serving as leaders in their respective dorms and around campus in the wake of the tragedy. 
University president Father Edward Malloy has asked stu­dent government to respond to the tragedy, according to Keogh senator John Cannon. 
"[Malloy] called on student government to do something in memory of what happened," said Cannon. 
Cannon has already spoken to the Student Activities office, Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) about working with stu­dent government to plan a prayer vigil and fundraiser. 
Although Cannon said no details have been finalized yet, he said the prayer vigil would most likely be held on September 15 or 22. Senators are also currently trying to create an event to raise money to help relief efforts in New York City. 
"Hopefully, the fundraiser would give us a way to send some aid. I know if we could, we would all be there digging through the rubble," said Jesse Flores, the senator from Carroll Hall. 
Student body presidenl Brooke Norton told the senate that money from the Rector's Fund would be available for any student who lost a loved one on Tuesday and needs help returning home. 
"We don't have many con­firmed reports of situations, yet," Norton said. "But the school is very good about help­ing those in need." 
However, Morrissey sen­
with health

"The school is very good 
ator Padraic 
services,"

McDermott about helping those 
Roland

said that stu­
in need." said.
dents from New York City 
. Senators

would have a Brooke Norton 
voted todifficult time student body president wait until a
returning home because most roads arc closed. 
"New York City is like a war zone right now," he said. 
Jennie Flannery, the senator from Lewis Hall, said it was important for students to remember that people in New York and Washington would be in need for more than just the immediate future. 
"I think we should keep in mind the long term and not just forget about this in a week," Flannery said. 
In addition, Student Activities director Brian Coughlin told the Senate that his office would continue with its scheduled activities this week. In relation to residence halls with dances scheduled for this weekend, Coughlin said individual rec­tors will decide whether to hold the dance. 
In other Senate news: 
. Zahm senator Mark Roland said the senate's University Affairs committee, which he chairs, would research campus counseling services. Ile said members of his committee were concerned that counsel­ing services were not well-pub­licized and perhaps were understaffed. He added that the committee would also research Notre Dame's health services department. 
"There have been a lot of 
complaints about misdiagnosis and other problems 
future sen­
ate meeting 

before deciding whether it will allow The Observer to publish its agndas. Jason McFarley, The Observer's news editor, addressed senators to say his department was willing to pub­lish the senate's agenda on a regular basis. 
"I think it would be a great service to the students and would hopefully get them interested in Senate meetings," McFarley said. 
. The senate is working with the MBA school and graduate students to plan a blood drive. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elruffa@nd.edu. 
SIDith, Lin caIDpaign for runoff election 
. E-mail voting fails to bring a clear victor 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
Following three days of e­mail balloting in the off. campus senator election. candidates Tammy Lin and Matthew Smith will be in a runoff election next Monday. 
Smith received 47 .2 per­cent of the vote, while Lin received 32 percent, according to John McCarthy, Judicial Counsel vice president in charge of elections. However, Smith could not be declared the winner because a majority of votes is required. 
McCarthy added that 72 off-campus students voted in the election. an amount that represented an increase over previous years in off-campus elec­tions. Part of the reason even more students did not vote probably had to do with events in New York City and Washington, D.C. Tuesday, according to McCarthy. 
"We had a lot of votes up to that point. but it stopped after that," he said. 
Lin expla)ned that she and Smith will have until mid­night on Sunday to cam­paign. McCarthy said he will e-mail off-campus seniors on Monday morning and voting wi:J run from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on that day only. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu. 

11 Let the rhythm take you over'' 
DANCE CLUB 
THIRSTY THURSDAY IS STUDENT ID NIGHT LADIES GET IN FREE, GUYS COVER ONLY $1.00 
MUST BE 21 TO ENTER 
HOURS Thurs & Fri 5pm-2:30am Saturday 8pm-2:30am 
INSTITUTE for 

VISIT OUR WEBSITE 
www.clubbailamos.com Phone: 25-SWING (257-9464) Located in the 100 Center Complex 
100 Center Street• Mishawaka • Indiana 
Latino Studies 

PRESENTS: "CENSUS CURRENT POPULATION SURVEY DATA FOR MONtTORING THE WELFARE OF LATINO YOUTH AND CHILDREN'' 
GUEST SPEAKER: RENE HINOJOSA, MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2001 
1:00 PM IN DEBARTOLO 316 
The Observeris looking for a few good writers. Care to join us? Call1-5323. 
Thursday, September 13, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
U2 postpones ticket sales to ND, nation 
SMC creates intercultural center 
By JENNIE BUEHLER News Writer 
Saint Mary's students can look forward to more oppor­tunities to explore intercul­tural relations and leader­ship roles with the creation of the Center for Women's lntercultural Leadership. 
The Center was established after receiving a generous grant from the Lilly Endowment in November of 2000. Since then it has been more formally established in its current location in Havacan Hall. 
"The Center will focus on ways to better prepare young women to become better leaders," said Mana Derakhshani, interim direc­tor. 
The Center is made up of different positions to facili­tate various aspects of inter­cultural leadership. The community connection coor­dinator helps to establish connections between com­munity leaders and scholars. 
"It's a way for people doing things in the community to exchange ideas, theories, ulty a year abroad to "travel, and practices with different write, and experience living scholars who are on cam­in another culture and then pus," said Derakhshani. bring that knowledge back to 
T  h  e  the  class- 
Center  room," said  
will  pro­ "The Center willfocus on  Dcrakhshani.  
vide a p l a c e where the  ways to better prepare young women to become  Students will benefit having this  
women  of'  better leaders ...  first  hand  
S  a  i  n  t  source of an  
Mary's can come to discuss  Mana Derakshani interim director  intercultural experience. Presently.  

intercul­tural rela­tions and other topics with scholars. 
"Visiting scholars who come to campus will discuss their research in matters including women's role in contemporary world wide cultures," Derakhshani said. 
Summer seminars for high school women are planned to further elaborate on the knowledge passed down from visiting scholars. Workshops and seminars are also slated fur later in the year. 
The Center hopes to offer members of Saint Mary's fac­the Center is 
focused on establishing and expanding its current position on the Saint Mary's campus. 
The Center supports exist­ing and creates new study abroad programs and inter­cultural experiences for fac­ulty and students. The knowledge gained from the research will be used to inform students and will also be incorporated in the annu­al summer seminars in the future. 
Contact Jennie Buehler at jenni_bee@hotmail.com. 
The Societyfor Human Resource Management & The Management Club invites everyone to attend the . 

Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
Iii 
Development Dimensions International, Inc. 
"Leadership in a Team­Oriented Organization " 
Friday, September 14 12:00 -1: 15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 
By SAM DERHEIMER News Writer 
Ticket sales for the upcom­ing U2 concert at Notre Dame are still postponed indefinite­ly. but the concert is not can­cel led, according to Joe Sassano. the events manager for the Joyce Center. 
"We are working with the U2 management to determine 
the new on-sale date. That has not yet been determined for our loca­tion," Sassano said. 
Ticket sales, origi­nally sched­uled for this afternoon at the Joyce Center, were postponed 
et will then receive a "We are working with the second ticket that will
U2 management to 
contain a

determine the new 
lottery num­on-sale date. That has ber. One 
not yet been determined number will 
be chosen at

for our location." 
random, and the student 

Joe Sassano with the matching
Joyce Center events manager 
after Tuesday's terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C. The band is scheduled to play the Joyce Center on the Notre Dame campus Oct. 10 at 7:30 p.m. 
Sassano said that other venues may have new on-sale dates rescheduled, but the U2 management is in contact with Notre Dame to determine an on-sale date that can be executed. 
Other than the actual date of the sale, ticket distribution will go on unchanged. Students from Notre Dame. Saint Mary's and Holy Cross will still have the opportunity to buy tickets before they go on sale to the public. Joyce Center officials said they also still plan to implement the two-ticket lottery system in which all students who arrive on time to obtain the first tick-
lottery ticket 
will then be 

first in line to buy a ticket to the show. 
Ticket prices for the show will be $46 for general admis­sion floor seats and $86 for assigned seats within the Joyce Center. Tickets sold during the student pre-sale and on the first day of the public sale will sell for cash only. 
Contact Sam Derheimer at sderheim@nd.edu. 


page 8 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 13, 2001 

Baroness Shirley Williams, the Catholic intellectual who helped to reshape the landscape of British policies, deputy leader and foreign-policy spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats in the House of Lords 
The Second Annual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 

illiams 
God and Caesar: The Church and Public Life 
September 13, 2001 The Challenge of Modernity September 18, 2001 The Death of Deference September 19, 2001 Enter Eve September 20, 2001 Christians and Politics
I 
I 

I I· 
I 
The Morality of Globalization 
January 15, 2002 Global Inequality and the Gospel of the Poor January 17, 2002 The New Horsemen of the Apocalypse January 22, 2002 Science as God January 24, 2002 Coming Together: Vision and Values 
All lectures are held on consecutive Tuesdays and Thursdays in the auditorium ofthe Hesburgh Center far International Studies and begin at 4 p. m. 



ERASMUS 
~ST.ITUTE 


Initial funding for the Erasmus Institute comes trom the generosity of an anonymous donor, The Pew Charitable Trusts, the William J. Carey Endowment, and the University of Notre Dame 
Thursday, September 13, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Bush visits Pentagon rescuers Terrorist attacks force 
. President reacts to terrorist attack 
on Washington, D.C. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush saw for him­
self Wednesday the burned­
out gash in the Pentagon left 
by a hijacked jetliner. 
During a visit to the wounded symbol of American military might, B u s h thanked weary res­cuers at t h e Pentagon and at the destroyed World Trade Center in New York for forging ahead with their search even as hopes faded of finding survivors. 
"Coming here makes me 
sad, on the one hand. It also 
makes me angry," Bush said 
after spending a full minute 
staring at the Pentagon's 
ripped side. 
He turned to reporters and 
waved a hand back toward the 
building's roof, which drooped 
:it an angle over the hole, four 
~·tories collapsed atop each 
t'ther. 
'Tm overwhelmed by the 
devastation," he said. To give 
an idea of the power of the 
impact when American 
Airlines Flight 77 hit the 
building Tuesday, Bush said 
Defense Secretary Donald 
Rumsfeld felt the explosion in his office -on the opposite side of the massive five-sided structure. 


"The building rocked. And now I know whv," Bush said. 
The military said Wednesday that about 150 people, military and civilian, were missing from the crash, which carried 64 passengers and crew to their deaths. 
Bush said with the help of its people the United States, which remained on "high alert for possible activity," will recover from its terror ordeal. He particularly thanked those who have given blood and those who are praying 
beside it. Their colleagues applauded, and broke into a 
Hollywood shutdown 
somber rendition of "God 
Bless America." 
Thfl president offered his first attention to soldiers in camouflage fatigues. some of whom saluted him. He and Rumsfeld then greeted a melange of firefighters, police officers, soldiers in black berets and a chaplain in a white sport shirt. 
'"Coming here confirms what the secretary and I both know, that this is a great nation," Bush said. 
"People out here arc work­
ing their 
hearts out to 

for the vic­"People out here are answer fam­
ing similar delays. 
Warner Bros. will indefmite­
tims and working their hearts out ilies' ques­
their families. tions, to 
ly postpone the release of
to answer families' 
·'The nation remove the 
Arnold Schwarzenegger's lat­
mourns, but questions, to remove the rubble and 
est film, "Collateral Damage," 
our govern­rubble and debris from debris from 
· in which a terrorist bombs a 
ment will go this office." 
Los Angeles skyscraper. It was
· this office." 
on," Bush A few 
to have debuted Oct. 5. 
said. "Our workers 
The Tim Allen comedy "Big 
country, how­George W. Bush continued to 
Trouble," in which one scene 
ever, will not collect 
involves a bomb on a plane,
President 
be cowed by terrorists, ... by people who are willing to destroy people's lives because we embrace freedom." 
The Pentagon's appearance was somber, its windows coat­ed in soot, some blown out completely. 
Two trees beside the point of impact were blackened. twist­ed, devoid of leaves. 
Just above the gash, a lone American flag waved at full staff. A dozen workers in yel­low hard hats unfurled a larg­er Star-Spangled Banner 
military commanders for an 
those affect­
update on recovery efforts. 
ed by this 
terrible 
tragedy," said Touchstone 
spokeswoman Vivian Boyer. 
Warner Bros. said it would retrieve all commercials, posters and ads for "Collateral Damage" and disconnect its Web site, all of which feature phony newspaper headlines about the fictional attack. 
Meanwhile, Sony Pictures removed a trailer from the­aters and the Internet for the adventure "Spider-Man" because of a scene in which a helicopter carrying fleeing rob­bers gets trapped in a giant spider web strung between the two towers of the World Trade Center. 
The sequence was created 
As the global telecommunications industiy 
grows., iO does. the level and 1ritem.ity of 
competition. At AT&T, we build on our 
achievements and seize new opportunllies 
worldwide by relying on our employees. We 
believe that tenacity in the face of fierce 
competition and dedication to winning are 
among the key attributes required for success, 
That is why our people are our major 
competitive advantage for the future. 
For more information, please visit our website at www.att.com/flp 
AT&T wants you to build your cap.abilities arrd grow 
with Ll5. W! al'! committed to your development by offerir,g state-of-the•art technology and 
immense resources to foei your growth as well as 
generous ,;at.aries and .benefit~. 
only for the ad and not for the film, which debuts May 3, Sony spokeswoman Susan Tick said. 
Even tho new Internet game Majestic, an interactive mys­tery involving conspiracies and bombings, was suspended. 
"Given the recent national tragedy we feel that some of the fictional elements in the game may not be appropriate at this time," said a statement by creator Electronic Arts. 
As for television, ABC can­celed a showing Saturday of the movie "The Peacemaker," about nuclear terrorists, and replaced it with the romance "Ilope Floats." 
Fox replaced broadcasts of "The X-Files" movie Friday and the film "lndependence Day" on Sunday with the comedies "Nine Months" and "Mrs. Doubtfire," respectively, spokesman Scott Grogin said. 
In "Independence Day," the White House and Empire State Building blow up. 
Fox feared such scenes could disturb many viewers. "We're looking at programming that is more family-oriented so people can watch it together," 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Real-life terrorism has led Hollywood executives to post­pone at least two movies and consider rescheduling other films and TV shows that involve terrorist plots against Americans. 
NBC announced it would push back the start of its new fall TV season, set to begin Monday, at least one week, regardless of the show content. Other networks were consider­
was also pulled from its Sept. 21 release by Disney's Touchstone Pictures. 
Both studios said they acted out of respect for victims of the t e r r o r attacks 
Tuesday in Grogin said. 
"Our thoughts and
Rumsfeld's office on the other 
New York, On one 
prayers are with those 
side of the building in subur­
Washington Fox drama 
ban Arlington, Va. 
and Penn­affected by this terrible just six 
Inside, Bush stood in a hall­

sylvania. months ago,
tragedy.,,
way and greeted about 200 
" 0 u r the World 
civilian and military staff who 
thoughts T r a d e 
work at the Pentagon. Then 
and prayers Vivian Boyer Center was 
he met with Rumsfeld and 
are with Touchstone spokeswoman threatened. 
debris and put it into a dump truck throughout Bush's visit, their cranes and power equipment 
whirring.  All  the  crews  
returned to work  as  Bush's  
motorcade  pulled  off  to  

The pre­

miere of the series "The Lone Gunmen" featured a U.S. government plot to boost arms sales by crashing an airliner into one of the towers, then blaming ter­rorists. 
Scenes from the cockpit showed the struggle to disen­gage the plane's suicidally pro­grammed navigational system. The plane managed to clear the tower by inches. 
"The Lone Gunmen" was quickly canceled. But among the new crop of shoot-'em-up series in the fall TV season, which starts Monday, are three -ABC's "Alias," CBS' ..The Agency" and Fox's "24" -that deal with terrorism at war with the CIA. 


OPPORTIJNlTY lN NEW JERSEY 
FINANCIAL LEADERSHIP 

PROGRI\M Designed to provide participants with the opportunity for development and growth of technkal and management/leadership competencies in an accelerated fashion through diverse job 'rotatlons and hand-s-on classroom training through a two and a half ye.ar curriculum. Participants develop critical skills in ,ev•ral financial disciplines and receive leadership and per!ional effectiveness training which is maximi,ed through the application of AT&Ts dynamic and changing business and participation in team projects and individual job rotation,. Seize thi, opportunity to learn from AT&T executives through "Lead•rship Insight Dialogues" and become a future leader of the Finance Organization and ultimately AT&T. 
It's all within your reach. 

page 10 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, September 13, 200 l 
Arab-Americans fear backlash 
White House seeks 
emergency funds 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Bush administration 
decided Wednesday to ask 
Congress for $20 billion in 
immediate emergency funds to 
help a henwnbed nation rebuild 
from terrorist assaultsand to 
launch a campaign against its 
attackers. 
Republican leaders planned to 
push the measure through the 
GOP-controlled House on 
Thursday, said Appropriations 
Committee Chainnan Bill Young, 
who described the proposal. The 
Appropriations panel approves 
federal spending. 
"We want a swift, positive 
reaction from Congress, and 
appropriating the money is just 
that," Young told reporters. 
Senate Majority Leader Tom 
Daschle cast doubt on the mea­
sure's immediate fate, saying he 
would be surprised if it could be 
approved in one day and that 
there was no final agreement on 
a dollar amount. 
"It's premature to be announc­ing a figure," he told 
tinue working on the measure "until all parties are satisfied." 
He said the chief goal was to provide the money quickly. 
The measure would put the entire amount in an emergency response fund the president con­trols. 
Bush could use it to counter and prosecute domestic and international terrorists, boost transportation security, rebuild the damaged Pentagon and clean up the debris of New York's two World Trade Center towers. 
Lawmakers of both parties balked at an initial White House plan to seek a virtual blank check for taking whatever actions the president considered necessary. 
"I didn't come here to have written on my tombstone that any president could, if he want­ed, put eight divisions into Afghanistan or go to war with the entire Arab world -without consulting with any other human being in government," said Rep. David Obey of Wisconsin, top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee. 
According to wording that cir­culated on Capitol Hill, an early version of the administration's bill would have provided "such sums as may be necessary to respond to the terrorist attacks 
on the  United  
States."  
In  nrivatP.  somP.  House  

-~hllerrs()ld ilJl'lll i,r 
·WBcnr&OOffnci&hlmwiwwmuqlM11'1A,wmxlll" 
PARTY ON THE PATIO 
Great food &dfllly drink special, Fri. 9114 Art &The Artichokes Sat. 9/15 Quick Change 
Muaic 8-12 on t~e patio/ 1506 W, lndisna Ave. 289-1361 

Democrats said the final version still gave Bush too much leeway to spend the money as he pleas­es. But few seemed likely to vote against the measure amid over­whelming public outrage against the attacks. 
Many of the 13 regular spend­ing bills for the coming fiscal year also seemed likely to be altered so extra money could be included for defense, intelli­gence, air system safety and other activities. ' 
Meanwhile, members of both parties said the partisan fight over whether to tap Social Security's surpluses for other federal activities seemed fin­ished. at least for now. Though that issue had seemed destined to dominate this fall's political battle, the enormity of Tuesday's destruction had lawmakers say­ing they should respond to the incidents, no matter where the money comes from. 
"That debate is over at this point," said Sen. Hichard Durbin. 'Tm not going to bury my head in the sand and say I'm taking that posi­t i o n , 
regardless
Tm not going to bury my
reporters. White House head in the sand and say 0 f 
America's
budget office 

I'm taking that position, security."
spokesman 

House
regardless ofAmerica's
Christopher 

budget
Ullman indicat­security." 

committee
ed some flexi­

chairman
bility. saying 

Sen. Richard Durbin Jim Nussle
the administra­indefinitelytion would con-D-111 

postponed 
plans for his committee to write a hill that would automatically cut spend­ing by the amount the Social Security surplus is eroded. 
As the limp economy and the costs of this year's tax cut have squeezed the budget, Democrats and Republicans have warred over how to avoid siphoning Social Security funds to pay for other programs. 
But in the wake of Tuesday's attacks, such talk was on the wane, with many lawmakers and officials emphasizing that their pledge to not was not meant to apply during war, recession of emergencies. 
"I think that this is the defini­tion of a severe emergency," Fleischer said. 
Associated Press 

A day after suspecied terror­ist attacks in New York and Washington, Arab-American, Muslim and Sikh leaders report­ed sporadic vandalism and assaults against their communi­ties. 
Mosque windows were shat­tered in Texas, a New York man was arrested for an alleged anti-Arab threat, and a prison fight broke out over Muslim slurs in Washington state. 
'Tm urging people not to play into the hands of the terrorists, not to act like them," said Nihad Awad. executive director of the Council on American-lslamic Relations in Washington, D.C. 
The prime suspect for the ter­rorist attacks in New York and Washington, authorities said, was Osama bin Laden, a wealthy Saudi fugitive who authorities have blamed for sev­eral past terrorist attacks. 
In Suffolk County, N.Y., authorities arrested a man who allegedly made an anti-Arab threat and pointed a handgun at a gas station employee. 
In Texas, at least six bullets shattered windows at the Islamic Center of Irving. A win­dow at the Islamic Center of Carrollton also wac; broken by a slingshot-type device, police said. 
Authorities there and in sev­eral other jurisdictions said they were unsure whether the threats were related to the ter­rorist attacks. 
In Asbury. N.J., Ramandeep Singh, a Sikh who wears a tur­ban for religious reasons, said he had garbage and stones thrown at his car and stayed home from work. 
In a Washington state prison, a fight broke out during televi­sion reports of the attacks. A sheriff's spokesman said that one inmate loudly criticized Muslims and then a Muslim inmate threw him to the floor, causing cranial hemorrhaging. 
;:~!'ll/leg,ance 
aCardinal Health company 
We are looking for... talented individuals majoring in either Finance or Accounting that have an interest working in aCorporate Finance 
setting 
We offer ... 

•2year Rotational Program: allows participants to experience upto4 
department roles within our corporation, which is in the Fortune 50. 
•
Domestic &International Opportunities 

•
Training &Development that will further your career 


*Final Resume Drop Date: September 24, 12:00 PM Look for us at the Business Career Forum: September 13 •14 
WhyPtf{i-? 
5 Billion Customers in 140 Countries, 300 Brands, 100,000 Employees, $39 Billion in Annual Sales, Offices in 80 Countries, $1. 7 Billion in Annual R&D, 1 Company 
Stop by our booth at the Notre Dame Business Career Fair September 13 and 14 to learn about full-time and internship opportunities with one of the world's most prestigious companies. Apply online for full-time positions on Go IRISH! AND at www.pg.com/careers/apply 
Procter & Gamble -Making Life Better 
Thursday, September 13, 2001 The Observer . NEWS 

prestir; ious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-year job in the Far East, strategically chosen to match your career goal. Apply by November 9, 2001. 

VISOR 
page 11 

U.S. closes embassies amid terrorist attacks 
As,ociated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The doors to about a quarter of all U.S. embassies remained shut. Wednesday in the after­math of the worst terrorist attack ever against the United States. 
About 50 embassies or U.S. consulates -including those in Japan, Italy, Sweden, Egypt and elsewhere in the Middle East -were closed or partial­ly shut down, mostly as a pre­caution. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell said he expected the offices "will all be resuming operations as soon as possi­ble." 
The State Department encouraged Americans abroad to stay in contact with the clos­est U.S. Embassy or consulate, and emphasized that all U.S. missions, even those that were closed, are accessible around­the-clock by phone in case of emergencies. 
The safeguard closings were prompted by terrorist attacks Tuesday against the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon in Washington. 
American diplomats closed 
the U.S. Embassy in Rome and 
various consulates in Italy, 
where national authorities 
increased security at airports, 
ports, train stations and for­
eign trade missions. 
"The embassy does not have 
any credible information of a 
specific threat against U.S. 
institutions in Italy," according 
to a message on the embassy's 
Web site. Still, diplomats 
closed shop "to reassess our 
security posture and as a sign 
of respect for the victims of terrorism in the U.S. September 11." 
In Caracas, Venezuelans approached the U.S. Embassy with flowers, but were not allowed past concrete barri­cades and security guards posted outside the building, which remained closed Wednesday. 
Bouquets also were left behind at the U.S. Embassy in Bern, Switzerland, where the Swiss government ordered flags to be lowered to half­staff. 
The attack came on the first working day for the U.S. ambassador to Switzerland, Mercer Reynolds. 
"A day that began with the happiness of presenting my credentials to President (Moritz) Leuenberger and beginning a new job in an important country ended in shock and sadness," he said. 
Reynolds said he was com­

forted by "the outpouring of 
support we have received from 
the Swiss government and 
people." 
Swiss security officials set up 

heavy steel barriers to block 
the street leading past the 
embassy, but allowed people 
to pass to pay their respects or 
to go to zoo beyond the 
embassy. 
The West African nation of 

Liberia, which bristles with the 
anti-aircraft guns and rocket­
launchers of its armed forces 
at the calmest of times, seized 
the opportunity to deploy its 
elite anti-terrorist unit. 
Camouflage troops toting 

AK-47s blocked streets around 
the U.S. Embassy and heeded 
President Charles Taylor's 
orders to stop anyone entering 
or leaving. 

better than using your hand. 
Your hand is not a personal organizer. Your hand is not a GPS. 'rour hand is not a cell phone. 'rour hand is not an MP3 player. 





More than Just a personal organizer -with optional Springboard modules, you can tum Visor into a phone, an MP3 player or any number of handy devices. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, September 13, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIF.F Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Pe,ers  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAR¥'s EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner C0NTR0I.LER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631-747 l FAX......................................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING ....................................631-6900/ 8 840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmroRIAssT. ME.... ...............631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................... ................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu SCENE......................................................... 631-4540 observer .scene. I @nd.edu SAINT MAR¥'s ............................................. 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and

( 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is che independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by che students of che University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpainc space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
jiFf.,.
I ' 
I'----: 
Offering prayers for our nation 
When events as stunning as those that transpired on Tuesday occur, one of the first thoughts that arises after the initial shock is, "What can I do?" 
One of the things we can do is pray, and Father Malloy had Notre Dame set aside all else that day to have us do just that. 
Some situations require multiple kinds of prayer to address their many dimensions. We need, for instance, to offer prayers for the dead. "Into your hands, 0 Lord, we humbly entrust our brothers and sisters." 

We must also pray for the afflicted. A prayer at a hospital reads, "O God, make this door wide enough to receive all who need human love and fellow­ship and care and narrow enough to shut out all envy, pride and hate." 
For the families who are waiting to find out the fate of loved ones: "Father and Creator, in whom all life and death find meaning, remove all anxi­ety from their minds and strengthen their love so that they may have peace in their hearts and home." 
Although we may be at a greater dis­tance from the tragedy than others we may also feel affliction. A prayer from Lamentations reads, "My soul is deprived of peace. But I will call this to mind as my reason to have hope: the favors of the Lord are not exhaust­ed, his mercies are not spent; they are renewed each morning, so great is his faithfulness." 
We may also wish to offer prayers for protection, such as Psalms 121 ("The Lord will guard you from all evil") and 91 ("With his pinions he will cover you, and under his wings you 

shall take refuge"). 
We may even offer prayers seeking justice. A full reading of the available prayers is necessary to keep justice from becoming revenge. 
There are two other kinds of prayers that help in this regard. The first is a plea that right action, action in accord with God's will, be done. 
The Our Father says, "Thy will be done," and "Lead us not into tempta­tion." 
Thomas Aquinas prayed, "O Creator past all telling ... be pleased to shed on the darkness of mind in which I was born the twofold beam of your light and warmth to dispel my ignorance and sin. Make me delicate to interpret and ready to speak. Guide my going in and going forward." 
Even with the call for wisdom, it is easy to abuse prayers for purposes of a vengeance that would distort any efforts at justice. Therefore, religious traditions often offer another kind of prayer, one that sets the horizon for all of our activities. It is perhaps the most difficult kind of prayer, both psy­chologically and spiritually, particular­ly at moments like the present: the prayer of forgiveness and reconcilia­tion. 
This kind of prayer does not obviate justice, but it may alter its meaning and the acts that we undertake on jus­tice's behalf even well before forgive­ness and reconciliation is humanly possible. 
Again we can look to the Our Father, where Jesus adds, "as we forgive those who trespass against us." We can also go to his words on the cross, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." The martyr Stephen follows Christ' s example: "Lord, do not hold this sin against them." 
A more contemporary expression of this sentiment is found in a prayer written by an unknown prisoner in the Ravensbruck concentration camp ­someone, in other words, who did not come to articulate the prayer through "cheap grace." 
"O Lord, remember not only the men and women of good will, but also those of ill will. But do not remember all the suffering they have inflicted on us; remember the fruits we have brought, thanks to this suffering -our com­radeship, our loyalty, our humility, our courage, our generosity, the greatness of heart which has grown out of all this, and when they come to judgment let all the fruits which we have borne be their forgiveness." 
It is important to see what this prayer is and is not saying. It is not saying that the actions of "those of ill will" are justifiable. 
It is not saying that something like -Nuremburg ought not to take place. It also recognizes that such forgiveness is humanly difficult and often impossi­ble in this lifetime; it calls upon God to forgive and on the last day. 
The Jesus of the Gospel did not tell us to not have enemies, but to love our enemies. 
Perhaps what that means in the pre­sent situation is that we ought not for­get the possibility of forgiveness and reconciliation even when that possibil­ity appears to us to be absurd and to let that absurd possibility inform those actions we take on behalf of justice. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associ­ate professor of theology and the director of the program in Catholic social tradition. His column appears every other Thursday. lie can be reached at whitmore.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Maureen Smithe Van Giles Andrew Thagard 
Sports 

Noah Amstadter 
Viewpoint 

Teresa Fralish 
Scene Matt Nania Graphics Katie McKenna Production Katie McVoy 
Lab Tech 
Ernesto Lacayo 
POLL QUESTION 

U.S. News and World Report recently released its annual college rankings. Did these rankings play a role in your college decision? 
Please e-mail observer.viewpoint.1@nd.edu by Friday to report your answer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Mankind must put an end to war or war will put an end to mankind." 
John F. Kennedy president 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, September 13, 2001 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Community continues to react to tragedy 
Faith sustains students 
I do not write editorials. Most times I don't write because it takes too much time to do it. This time I m11st make an exception. Today r saw one of the most frightening and most amazing things in my life. In one day I saw how evil and terrible humans can be and the way we can group together in a time of crisis. 
I myself did not realize what happened until I walked into my first class. I saw hugs being given out and people talking with a tone I haven't heard before ' as I walked to DeBartolo Hall. I stepped into my classroom to be greeted by the words "America Under Attack" written on the screen. 
My America? The land of the free and home of the brave? This great country which I have come to grow up in and feel connected to? 
The rubble was all over the screen and the smoke filled the sky. I turned around and pro­ceeded quickly to return to " my dorm. In my dorm as I once ~--_ again saw destruction and death, a sense of sadness came over me. I quickly felt pain for everyone who was hurt, was killed and knew people that had their lives taken away. 
At the end of the Mass. I witnessed from the choir risers one of the most uplifting scenes in my short life. As the whole campus sang the Alma Mater with arms around their neighbors, the sense 
of community radiated out and blew me ---away. ....._,,. This is what Notre Dame is all about. The togetherness and · \ unity in our University can­·, not be matched anywhere ' else. I don't know why I am writing this. I have no 
\ controversial opinion, . no topic that needs to ' be discussed. It 
seems as though I don't know much today. 
All that I thought was safe and a con­stant in my life has suddenly been ques­tioned. The only 
thing I can do is to 
turn to my Lord. In , this time of trouble · and turmoil, the Lord 
is the one we must turn to. He is that one 
. J/ that can shine light into V the darkness. He did not cause this destruction ­
humans did through free choice, but He can bring great things out of it. 
Paul Sifuentes 
Alumni Hall freshman Sept. 11, 2001 

European resident shows solidarity with U.S. 
As a former student of the theology department of Notre Dame I want to assure the whole Notre Dame family of the prayer of all European countries. 
Yesterday thousands of Christians came from several places all over Germany together to pray for the victims and for the American people. The Cathedral of Berlin was filled to its last scat and hundreds of people were still waiting outside. The Cardinal of Munich together with his Lutheran colleague were gathering about 5,000 people in front of Our Lady's Column in the inner city of Munich. 
Germany did not forget the help the American people gave us. all the sup­port and love after World War II. You saved our lives and gave us the oppor­tunity to live in democracy and freedom. The German people remember that very well and are shocked by the terrible incident yesterday. 
"This is a declaration of war to the civilized world," our chancellor said. Some madmen hit our best friend, the United States, and we want to show you our condolences and our feelings. In this hour of grief Europe is feeling with you and assures you of total solidarity. We will pray for America! 
Ulrich L. Lehner 
Munich, Germany Sept. 12, 2001 

Peace will persevere 
On behalf of the Notre Dame students in Washington, D.C., I would like to thank everyone on campus for their thoughts and prayers. 
On Tuesday we witnessed history -and a part of me wishes I hadn't. If there is any good to come from this, it will be through the unity of a commu­nity like Notre Dame whose desire for peace and justice will always persevere -before and after an event such as this. 
I take great pride in being a part of this community and of a nation that both mourns and begins to heal today. 
Miguel Vieyra Washington Semester Program junior Sept. 12, 2001 

Americans' questions left unanswered 
I went to bed Monday night in the "city that never sleeps," wondering whether I would go jogging before or after heading to Fifth Avenue the next day. 
Tuesday morning, I wondered whether I would ever run, shop or sleep again. 
It was an overreaction, thank God. It was a common reaction, thank no one. 
A few days ago, I didn't think twice of being in Manhattan at 9 
a.m. on Sept.11, 2001, in my broth­er's 27th f1oor apartment a couple miles away from the World Trade Center. l had arrived on Sunday, 

had gone to the Red Sox-Yankees 
game that afternoon, had a job Tim Casey interview in New Jersey Monday afternoon and another meeting at a 
New York newspaper on Guest column Wednesday afternoon. I planned on walking around the city all day Tuesday. But there I was, jumping out of bed, slipping on shorts, sneakers and a hat, brushing my teeth, grabbing some money and keys, then entering an elevator. A few min­utes earlier, my sister-in-law watched an airplane fly into a skyscraper and immediately awoke me out of a deep sleep. A few minutes later, we were both outside her apartment building, at 64th and West End Ave., unsure where to go, what to think, how to cope. I'm in the words business, trying to string together nouns, verbs, adjectives and adverbs, trying to construct a story, trying to explain. Sorry. There are no explanations for what happened Tuesday in New York, in D.C. and across America. Only stories. plenty of stories. 
Here's one: 
My brother, a commodities trader who works in near­by Greenwich, Conn., spoke to his friend, Ward Haynes, Monday afternoon. They met a few years ago through business. They played golf together, went to dinner together and talked regularly. Ward has a great sense of humor, a caring heart and a genuine love for life. He is one of those people who makes an immediate, positive impression on others. 
I was lucky enough to know him. During my sopho­more year at Notre Dame, my brother told me Ward used to be on the staff at Sports Illustrated. So I called him and asked how I should pursue a career in sports journalism. He gave me some tips and phone numbers of people he knew at SI. He genuinely wanted to help an unknown, novice writer and we stayed in touch periodi­cally. I finally met Ward for the first time in March at the Big East men's basketball tournament in New York. We ate at a local bar before walking a few blocks to Madison Square Garden. It was a fun night. 
Sadly, it may have been the only few hours we spent together. 
Ward worked as a broker in the World Trade Center. On Tuesday n10rning, he said goodbye to his lovely wife, 10-year old son and 3-year old twins then went to work. As of last night, Ward's family still had not heard from him. 
We can only pray that Ward -and all the other miss­ing people -calls home sometime soon. We can only hope that the families remain strong and positive. 
Imagine waiting for days for your mother, father, brother, or sister? 
For a moment Tuesday, Sharon, my sister-in-law, had that horrific experience. Shortly after we evacuated the apartment building, Sharon began worrying about her sister Sue, who lived a few blocks from the World Trade Center. For several hours, Sharon and her family tried to get in touch with Sue. No luck. It was nearly impossible to use cell phones in the city. So, to pass the time, Sharon and I ate a quick breakfast at a local restaurant, bought some newspapers and magazines and sat down on a park bench. 
We saw the financial district crumble. We saw people sobbing and staring at the damage. We saw the busiest, loudest city in the world, suddenly become as quiet as a Midwest town. 
We talked to our parents in Rhode Island and my brother in Connecticut and told them we were OK. Fortunately, we were far enough away from lower Manhattan. But no one could reach Sue. 
Finally, around 1:30 p.m. my sister-in-law noticed her sister standing about 100 yards away. Sharon jumped off the bench, placed her magazine on the ground and ran towards Sue. Sue had heard the first plane crash into the World Trade Center, gathered some clothes, escaped from her building and walked for a few hours to her sis­ter's apartment. 
They embraced. They cried. They said "I love you" over and over and over. Then they wondered. I won­dered. 
We all wondered. 
We wanted answers. 
Instead, we got questions. Lots and lots of questions. 
Why, oh why, did this happen to innocent people? Why, oh why, did this happen in our country? 
Why, oh why? 
Tim Casey is a 2001 graduate ofNotre Dame and a former Observer sports writer. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
O
THE BSERVER 


Thursday, September 13, 2001 page 14 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Swingers' duo can't get 'Made' 
By JUDE SEYMOUR 
Scene Movie Critic 
After the surprising success of "Swingers," writer-actor Jon Favreau wait­ed five years to put his next screenplay "Made" on the big screen. Whether or not he is a superstitious man, Favreau's writ­ing and direction on this film indicates strongly that he has fallen victim to the proverbial "sophomore slump." 
"Made," with its slipshod plot and atro­cious dialogue, lacks the hip attitude and raw energy that catalyzed "Swingers." If this film is a comedy, it provides nothing to laugh at. If this film is a drama, it lacks any character depth or real conflict. Most like­ly, its greatest offense was that it left the audience wondering what genre it was even aiming for. 
Favreau portrays Bobby, a construction worker by day and a fledgling boxer by night. Ricky (Vince Vaughn) is a shiftless layabout whose mouth is always yapping. Bobby works for Max (Peter Falk}, a mob underling who is content with being noth­ing more than a glorified pimp. Max offers Bobby and Hicky a chance to escape their Bobby "defeats" each conflict in his life, his meaningless construction jobs and operate opponent only grows stronger. In the end, some important money laundering "Made" wants to stress that his biggest schemes in New York. For Bobby, this is fight was in essence an altrui'ltic, not indi­his opportunity to quickly earn serious vidualistic, match. Unfortunately, the cash, in hopes that he can convince his movie committed little of its duration to girlfriend, Jessica (Famkc setting up this last conflict, Janssen, "X-Men"), to emanci­and it wheezes to its conclu­pate herself from stripping, "Made" sion. _which she docs to support her Since "Made" spent little of daughter. Hicky and Bobby go t!TatJ~!, its energy addressing this last to New York for a meeting out offive shamrocks conflict, it seemed to over­with Tom and Ruiz (Sean compensate by making the
Director: Jon Favreau
Combs). a drug dealer and his dialogue unrepeatable. Few middleman. Starring: Jon Favreau, things are worse than watch­Boxing is a metaphor for Vince Vaughn, Peter ing a terribly scripted movie Bobbv's existence. His medi­delve into a chasm off-words 
Falk and Sean Combs 

ocrity inside the ring parallels his unfulfilled life. This becomes more apparent when Bobby is forced to deal with the blows ofjealousy, impatience and unrequited love. Ricky, in turn, is compli­cating situations for Bobby by not following the guidelines set up at the New York meeting. 
To Vaughn's credit, he knows how to portray machismo. Now if he would only learn how to portray some realistic feel­ings, for this film is thirsting for true emo­tionality. 
However, it is unfair to single out Vaughn for his one-dimensional perfor­mance; all the characters in this film reflect Favreau 's inability to write dynamic characterizations. Each actor stumbles through his role, repeating the scripted lines without really interpreting them. There is one exception: Sean Combs is sur­prisingly brilliant in his minor but signifi­cant role. 
As it is when he's in the ring, when 
in a callow attempt to assert its hipness. The film quickly desensitizes its viewer to the foul language. at which time each usage became annoying instead of invigorating. 
It makes sense in an absurd kind-of-way that a movie entitled "Made" would take no steps to portray any character being "made" (or at least the way an audience would understand it on "Sopranos"). Perhaps Favreau was insinuating that his character is "made" by his life-affirming decisions. Unfortunately, this point exists in a muddle of bad characterizations and a second-rate plot while consequently getting misplaced amidst the hundreds of f-words that spew out of Vaughn's mouth. 
After "Made," Jon Favreau has a lot of . work to do to convince even his most loyal minions that "Swingers" was more than an artistic fluke. 
Contact Jude Seymour at seymour.7@nd.edu. 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
Radiohead documentary is OK 
By MATT NANIA 
Scene Movie Editor 
"Meeting People is Easy," a first-rate documentary by music video director Grant Gee, played to sold-out houses in a limited theatrical run back in 1999 and was released on VHS and DVD a few months later. Chronkling BrWsh group Radiohead's 1997 Against-Demons tour. this rockurnentary uses its synchronization 
of imagery and sound to lure the viewer into a sense of awe at both the dynamic music of the band and the alienated viewpoint of the musi­cians. 
When Radiohead released their third album, OK Computer, in '97, they were met with an onslaught of critical 
and mass acclaim. They became, among other superlatives, the "saviors of rock 'n roll" destined to retrieve the genre from the depths of mediocrity. However, "Meeting People" doesn't encourage this concept or merely docwnent the band and their worldwide tour. Instead, it functions as a visual companion piece to the mecha­nized attitude of OK. 
Brimming with a stirring series of edits that contrast quickly moving shots with stills. slow tracking shots, and utilizing color/black and white video, the film cre­ates a chaotic impact that effectively 
"Radiohead: From concert to con­cert, Radiohead playsMeeting People Is their carefully construct­Easy" ed songs over and over again. They have inter­
Director: Grant Gee 
views and photo-shoots
Starring: Thom Yorke, Jonny 
before and after per­Greenwood, Ed O'Brien, Colin forming. Various seg­
Greenwood and Phil Selway ments show a band tired 
and bored with a parade of insipid questions from uninspired jour­nalists. Cobbled together as they are in the film, these inquiries arc utterly ridiculous. 
Guitarists Colin Greenwood and Ed O'Brien endure the interviews and partic­ipate in worthless radio spots as best as they can, but lead singer and songwriter Thom Yorke is at the breaking point. Instead of chilling out at a post-concert party with his bandmates, Yorke paces around his dressing room. fearing the attention in the next room. When he can't even complete a sin1ple clip for an awards show, he throws the script to the ground and a._c;k.<, one of the other members to fin-echoes the band's sonic ambiance. The soundtrack is swarming with audio sam­ples taken from interviews, songs and sounds of today's metropolitan cities. This design is apt not only in the context of Radiohead's aesthetic, but also in the veri­table media whirlwind of shallow market­ing, endless streams of redundant inter­views. blinding photo shoots and awkward television appearances. The tour, the nucleus of this frenzy, seems to be a micro­cosm of the creepy, dehumanizing, world 
they critique on OK. 
ish it for him. But during the filming of the "No Surprises" video, in which he must hold his breath under a helmet of slowly filling water, Yorke's frustrations are even more evident. Obviously, this is not a rock star enjoying the good life; he's uncomfort­able and uneasy wherever he goes. 
But all this is not to say that "Meeting People" reveals much about the band members themselves-it is more about the process than the personalities. The film creates a cramped, tedious world by limit­ing its settings to urban vistas: subway tun­nels, escalators, airport terminals, etc. The band travels from one hectic city to anoth­er; one small, impersonal hotel room to the next. There is an allegory at work here, linking the rigors of the tour to the rigors of the inhumane, digitized world so strongly conveyed on 0.K. Computer. 
Musically, the film ranges from an audi­ence sing-along of "Creep" to a blistering, hair-raising version of "Exit Music (for a Film)" to snippets of new material that showed up on Kid /\, Amnesiac, and as B­sides. Unfortunately, there arc precious few full-length live performances. Hathcr, the film takes a music video montage approach that brilliantly communicates the startling atmosphere of Radiohead's music. 
"Meeting People is Easy" is therefore not a typical tour film. But Hadiohead is not a typical band. Kid A and Amnesiac's experi­mental and non-radio-friendly tempera­ment angered some, pleased others. Hegardlcss of the direction they take now, they'll never be accorded the same recep­tion as documented in "Meeting People." 
Meeting people is easy. 
Afilm by grant gee about radiohead. 

Photo courtesy of Parlophone 

"Meeting People Is Easy" is available to order online. 
Fans will no doubt enjoy it for what it offers musically, as well as take pleasure in its OK Computer-inspired sonic atmos­phere. For film enthusiasts and the uniniti­ated, "Meeting People Is Easy" offers up an expert. conceptual fusion of sound, sight. and music-a successful formula for a great rockumentary. 
Contact Man Nania at mnania@nd.edu. 
O
THE BSERVER 


CENE. 
rllOllt 

Thursday, September 13, 2001 page 15 
MOVIE FEATURE 

Photos courtesy of Warner Bros. Pictures 
Sean Astin (left, center), Key Huy Kuan and Corey Feldman star in "The Goonies," the classic adventure comedy directed by Richard Donner. The film, an '80s favorite, is now available on a newly released DVD. 
'Goonies' is a childhood treasure 

Led by Mikey, the goonies neighborhood. Chunk quickly befriends
By ADAM WELTLER 
follow the clues to the attain No adventure story works Sloth over their mutual 
Scene Movie Critic 
the "rich stuff" in hopes of without memorable charac­love of Baby Ruth candy saving the Boondocks and ters, and "The Goonies" is no bars. Sloth's triumphant 
"The Goonies." Let's just their homes. Along the way, exception. Mikey Walsh, the call, "Hey you guys!," has call it what it is: An American they're joined by a beautiful leader of the group played by become cinematic legend.classic, one of the definitive cheerleader named Andy, her Sean Astin (who later went on O.K., it's not "Citizen films of 1980s childhood. friend Stef, and the mon­to play the title character in a Kane" or "Schindler's What kid hasn't had a friend strously disfigured yet warm­little movie called "Rudy"), List," but "Goonies" not like Mikey, Mouth, Data or hearted Sloth. At the same despite his asthma, inspires only accurately depictsChunk? These characters are time, they're being chased by the others to join him on his 1980s childhood, it is already familiar to us, but an inept family of criminals, treasure hunt. l 980s childhood. Chunk placing them in an adventure the Fratellis, who want to Mouth (Corey Feldman) claims that Michael of which we could only dream steal the treasure for them­delivers some the funnier one-Jackson came over to his is what mal<es "The Goonies" selves. 1in ers, such as interesting house to use the bathroom so extra special. Directed by Richard Donner Spanish translations to (or at least his sister did).
The story begins on a ("Superman") and co-written Walsh's new maid. He also and even Cyndi Lauper
Saturday morning in Astoria, by Steven Spielberg, there's forces Chunk to show off his does the film's theme Oregon, where Mickey, his something about "The rotund physique in the infa­song. How much more older brother Brand, and Goonies" that has allowed it mous Truffle Shuffle. '80s can you get? Viewers friends Mouth, Data and to resonate with its loyal, now Chunk (Jeff Cohen) is the can easily look back and Chunk sit lamenting their last in their mid-twenties, follow­clumsy, overweight, loveable relive those wonder years.weekend in the Boondocks. ing. When it came out in 1985 friend whose frequent appre­Plus, it's fun to remember An evil developer has fore­and on video years later. hension constantly draws a a time when the s-word 
closed the land containing all every kid who saw it wanted "Shut up, Chunk!" from the could be used in a chil­their houses, and after the to be like Mikey, Data, Mouth rest of the group; yet it is dren's movie. weekend plans to bulldoze or Chunk (well maybe not like Chunk who saves the day in And now, finally, "The them all down to build a golf Chunk). The characters were the end. Goonies" DVD has been course. Bummer. real and identifiable. Every Data, played by Key Huy released. In widescreen 
While playing around in kid wanted to find a map in Kuan (Short-round from format, the movie feels Mikey's attic, the five of them their attic that lead to trea­"Indiana Jones and the different for those who stumble upon an old map sure buried in their home Temple of Doom") invents have only seen it on VHS. from a museum, which sup­town. Every kid wanted to gadgets-Bully Blinders, The audio commentaryposedly leads to the buried find a pirate ship filled with Pinchers of Power and Slick by all the original goonies treasure of legendary pirate gold and jewels and save their Shoes-to be more like his is by far the best feature 
One-Eyed Willy. hero, James Bond. Data's on the disc. It's fun to see inventions constantly get him ail of them now in their and the rest of the goonies out mid-twenties or early of many perilous situations. thirties looking back at 
Brand (Josh Brolin). Mikey's the movie and cracking high school brother. keeps the jokes about the produc­goonies out of trouble while at tion. For example, we find the same time trying to kiss out that Jeff Cohen has Andy (Kerri Green). become a successful 
Stef (Martha Plimpton} lawyer and ran his cam­
viewers of any age. "The 
wants no part of any of it. All paign for class president at Goonies" sends a message to the goonies must work togeth­Berkeley under the tagline 
the children in all of us to 
er to figure out the clues and "Chunk for President." 
never give up our sense of survive One-Eyed Willy's The DVD also includes wonder. Or, at the least, it booty-traps. You mean deleted scenes, something makes us laugh at Chunk's 
"booby-traps?" That's what I brand new for those who have jiggling fat when he does the said, "booby-traps." loved "Goonies" for years. 
Truffle Shuffle. That never 
Accompanying Chunk mid­There's something to be gets old. 
way through the movie is said about a movie made for 
Photo courtesy of Warner Bros. Pictures 
Sloth, the Fratelli's gigantic, children that can be watched
One of Sean Astin's first roles was as Mikey Welsh, an adventur­Contact Adam Welder at
disfigured and mistreated son. and thoroughly enjoyed by
ous young kid searching for a lost treasure in "The Goonies." aweltler@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 13, 2001 
NFL 

Redskins welcome practice as a distraction 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. 

Two days ago, the nation's capital was alive with talk of Michael Jordan's comeback, Jaromir Jagr's debut and the Redskins' latest quarterback controversy. 
The Redskins resumed prac­tice Wednesday and Jagr prac­ticed with the Washington Capitals for the first time, but minds were distracted by the tragic events the day before. 
"This tragedy is much bigger than the NFL," safety Keith Lyle said. "This is serious business. It affects everybody in this country. We're in the heart of 
• this. D.C. is a prime target." 
Unsure whether Sunday's game against the Arizona 
Cardinals will be played as scheduled, the Redskins held their regular workout. Coach Marty Schottenheimcr and sev­eral players said they welcomed the distraction following Tuesday's terrorist attacks at the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon near Washington. 
"I think they did a pretty good job," Schottenheimer said. "Maybe there's something ther­apeutic about it, r don't know. But once you're walking off the field, it comes back." 
There also was conflicting sentiment as to whether Sunday's game should be played. Some players ques­tioned the appropriateness ­and the safety concerns -of holding a public event with 80,000 people in the suburbs of a city that was attacked just a few days earlier. 
"I don't know if you can feel safe anywhere where there's a lot of people," Lyle said. 
Others recognized the sym­bolism of the NFL as a national institution that shouldn't buckle in the face of terrorism -or that should at least give people something else to think about for a day. 
"I think it would be good to get out there and play," line­backer Eddie Mason said. "We're trying to take it one day at a time, but it did feel good to kind of get your mind off the somberness of the events." 
On the other side of Washington, an unprecedented crowd showed up to watch a Capitals team that often gets ignored. Hundreds filled the Piney Orchard ice rink to near capacity, with many children in the bleachers because school had been canceled. 
They were there to see Jagr, the first superstar player in franchise history, who was acquired in a trade from the Pittsburgh Penguins. 
Jordan, mea,nwhile, remained i11 Chicago. On Monday, specu­lation over his possible return reached its peak. He indicated he was virtually certain that he would announce within 10 days his intention to end his retire­ment and play for the Washington Wizards this sea­son. 
Now, the anticipation is on hold. 
"The talk of Michael's come­back is such a minor thing com­pared to what's going on with 
our country," Jordan spokes­
woman Estee Portnoy said. 
Three Hedskins players were 

not at practice Wednesday 
because they were stranded in 
other parts of the country when 
all flights were grounded after 
the attacks. Defensive end 
Marco Coleman was driving to 
Washington from Atlanta on 
Wednesday, while tight end 
Walter Rasby remained in the 
New York borough of Queens 
and running back Ki-Jana 
Carter was in f"lorida. 
Schottenheimer said he was treading uncharted ground try­.ing to prepare his team for 
Sunday. 
"We just talked about the fact 

that there's no blueprint," the 
coach said. "There's nothing in 
my history to prepare you for 
how you might do it." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m-at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nex,-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edir all classifieds for contenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ON CALL BABYSITTER NEEDED. After school care for two children, 3 Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold Gently used loveseai + chair. Need 2 Purdue tickets! Call NEAR ND. FOR DETAILS CALL pm -5:30 pm. Good payl Please Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, Taupe w/ muted pinstripes; wood Maureen at 233-8513 273-2872. call Lisa 631-9947 or 277-8564. DR & kitchen w/ appliances. 1 car trim-"Broyhill" $150 674-6150
LOST AND FOUND 
garage. $69,000. 

WANTED: Looking for someone to care Futon w/solid wood frame $500. NEED 2 GA'S TO TENNESSEE. LOST WHITE GOLD NUGGET Highly organized, experienced legal for/play with my 4 & 6 year old boys Call Doris at 254-1772 for more Krups cappucino & coffee maker WILL CONSIDER OTHER. CALL NECKLACE. secretary or assistant to Pl trial while I work in home office. 3-5 info. $70. Sony cordless phone & JACK 674-6593. PROBABLY NEAR REGINA HALL lawyer for new, spacious offices hours per week -flexible. 5 miles answering machine $30. AT SAINT MARY'S. next to Notre Dame campus; hours from campus. 277-0666. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. flexible; competitive pay and bene-Tricia 232-1285 PARADISE LAKE WILL TRADE TICKETS. ND FOOT­THIS IS INSURED SO WE WILL fits.. Newly rehabbed, 6 bedroom, year LOUD 3-way speakers. 125 w. ea. BALL FOR U2. 232-0964 BE PIO IF NOTSURRENDERED. Call 231-1868 and leave message. round home on low traffic, al sports 12" drivers. $250 obo/~ari. Call BUT WE WANT IT BACK, Looking for a female English tutor lake 30 min. from Notre Dame. Mike 4-4695 PLEASE Sitter wanted by professor for two for Japanese native girl aged 8 in Tranquil setting with spectacular WANTED U2 TICKETS. 232-0964 CALL 765-659-4928. boys (7&10) some evenings and Granger. Twice a week $40 (1 hour views from every room. Near '88 GMC pikcup truck. Looks good, 
HANDSOME REWARD. late afternoons. each some time between 4 to 7 Cassopolis, Ml and Swiss Valley runs great. Call Mark at 273-0449. Need 2-3A&M vs ND tickets. Call Constable.1@nd.edu or 234-9597 pm). Contact Yoshi at 219-654-Ski area. $234,000. 708-203-2685. Pat -277-2243. NO QUESTIONS ASKED Wanted by elderly couple a respon-1219 THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Ganor1 Bubble Jet 4200 printer. 
sible man or woman graduate stu-Breakfast Inn has space available $100 2 ND-Purdue tickets for sale. 277­Lost High School Class Ring dent to drive our car for errands or Mom's helper. for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms 288-4241 9322. Chillicothe High School short drives from our home in ND Seek student to help with twins 10-with private baths, $80-$115, Jessica inscribed on the inside neighborhood. Wages per hour 20 hrs/moth. Good pay. Full Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Help! Need 8 WV tickets. Call Kerry Please return! Girlfriend will kill me negotiable. description available by e-mail Toll Road Exit #107. SPRING BREAK at 243-0928 
288-0074 request: Largest selection of Spring Break Please call 634-3580 JennyLack@aol.com Destinations, including Cruises! Need MSU tickets! Call Lora at 243­
Wanted by elderly couple a respon-1-800-41 8-9487 Rep positions. Free Drinks and 0928 Lost a silver bracelet possibly in sible man or woman graduate stu-Babysitter(s): non-smoker, playful, Free Trips available. South Quad directly outside Dillon dent to drive our car for errands or responsible. Needed for various HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-www.EpicuRRean.com. 1-800-231-Need 4 Pitt. tix. Will buy or trade for Hall's front door. short drives from our home in ND times: Mon & Th. Ftemoons (12-5), PUS 4-FUN. WV. Call Chrissy at 4-1203 or e-Bracelet has a gold plate with the neighborhood. Wages per hour Sat. nights. Girl 3, Boy 5. In mmmrentals.com mail cmaher@nd.edu. inscription "TJ 1999 LIV.' If found, negotiable. 288-0074. Granger. email: mmmrentals@aol.com please call 4-0951 and leave a 273-9476 HELP! Looking for one student or message for TJ. Babysitter needed B&B TICKETS GA ticket to MSU. REWARD over $50. Seeking experienced caregiver to SEEKING STUDENT FOR PART 4 rooms for N.D. football. Call Katie at 284-5048. 
help mother with oddler and infant TIME REPRESENTATION ON 3 miles from N.D. Best location. in our home. Needing assistance 2 CAMPUS FOR SCREEN PRINT & BUY-SELL times per week in later afternoon. EMBROIDERY COMPANY. FLEX ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
PERSONAL

WANTED Must have own transportation. HOURS & FLEX PAY. CALL DAVE 287-4545 277-66'19 Training in CPR and first aid pre-AT800-813-2113. !erred. $7.00 per hour. Please call Spacious 4 bdrm, 2-story on private GA's 4 USC, MSU, TN, WVA271-SENIORS: 
ROOMMATE WANTED: 219-287-5086 for appointment. Seeking part-time Daycare provider lane in Farmington Square. 2737 1654 Senior Portraits taken until Sept. Looking for a male or female for two children. Granger area. Own SF+ professionally finsihed base-21. Sign up now @ rommate for house off-campus WANTED: transportation required. men!. Call Jack at 280-7730. WANTED-ND TICKETS 289-9280 www.Laurenstudios.com while at 822 N. Francis St. Assistant to trial layer with desktop References. Call 277-1622. Century 21 Jim Dunfree Realty. there is still space available. 
Close to campus. publishing skills for new spacious ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED If interested, offices next to Notre Dame campus; STUDENT WORK Villa-style home for rent. 2 bed-A.M. 232-2378 To my friends and my family: call 288-8249 part-time or flexible hours; competi-$14.05 Base-appt. room, attatched 2 car garage. P.M. 288-2726 A time of crisis always makes you 
tive hourly wage. Vector Mkt. is filling PT cust. Clean, Cross Creek subdivision. grateful for what you have. Thank Seeking part-time Daycare provider Call 231-1868 and leave message. svc./sales positions (5-20 hrs) $850/month. NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX you for always being there for me. for two childen. Granger area. Flex around classes. Scholarships. FOR SALE Please keep yourselves safe and Own transportation required, ROOMMATE WANTED: Cond. apply 679-9480. A.M. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726 put your trust in God. References. www.workforstudents.com/np call I love you! Call 277-1622. Campus View Apartments M-W 12-5 pm Apt. 2-bedroom. $350/ person ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices. 
Private bedroom & PRIVATE 282-2357 including util. $150 dep. Close to 232-0964 I don't have to work tomorrow! RESPONSIBLE, QUALITY CHILD-BATHROOM!!! Large kitchen. Free Notre Dame. 120 W. Cripe St. 277-YAHOO!! CARE NEEDED parking. $282.5/month. Contact me ND prof seeks reliable person for 9455. GA Tix 4 Pitt gm 271-1654 in my home for 3 year old & 7 atquw@ndedu. daytime babysitting of 2-yr-old on Little white lies are OK as long as month old. Monday thru Thursday MW 8:30 am-12:30 pm. Generous This terrific one bedroom condo in Buying some I Selling a few extra you have a point to prove. Right 
2:30 pm • 5 pm. Emergency call: 219-243-2383 rates. Well-behaved child. Transp. Woodbridge Condominiums is close N.D. Football Tickets 219-289· Mary? 1 Saturday a month. req'd. (5 min. from ND). enough to walk to ND. Why rent? 8048 Own transportation required. PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal 288-4170 or kbaldwin@nd edu Own this $62,9001 Contact Mod Quad ­5 mins from ND. shelter just 10 min from campus, Prudential One Realty or Cherie A businessman needs football sea-Thanks for keeping me awake at Major in early childhood develop-urgently needs FOSTERS and TeRoller at 284-2600. son tickets "GAs only" Will buy the Big 01 I always love hearing mentor child psychology a plus. VOLUNTEERS for its cats and Spanish translation needed for edu-individual games 277-1659 from you when I'm being held cap-References required. dogs. cational material. Good pay. Work live down herel Call 288-6795. Please e-mail webmaster@petre-at home. IHRD (8-5, M-F) Wanted· 4-6 tickets tor USC. Seats
FOR SALE
luge.com, visit www.petrefuge.com, do not have to be together. Call If you see Katie McVoy around LOVE KIDS? or call 256-0886. 273-8857. Nicole 233-8513 campus today, pleasE! tell her that WANT TO EARN GOOD$$ she just happens to ROCKI BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS IN-HOME NANNY needed.to care For Sale. Large desk w/credenza. For Sale Navy, WVA, Pitt, GAS 654­A WEEK? for infant. Must have transportation. $400. 282-2228. 0168 Kerry said so. 
Experience with infants and refer-FOR RENT ---------------------------------------------­Area family needs individual to care ences required. $$ NEED 8 TIX 4 WVU And if you pass Kerry Smith on the for our two daughters Mon-Fri from Congact Dr. Knoedler at 631-4262 Beautiful brass bed, queen size, quad please realize that she is the 3-6pm starting mid-Sept. Mom or aknoedle@nd edu This terrific one bedroom condo in with orthopedic mattress set. All 915-241-5999 coolest person alive. attends grad school in Chicago. Woodbridge Condominiums is close new, never used, still in plastic. Girts are fun and delightfull Seeking student for part time repre-enough to walk to ND. Why rent? $235. 219-862-2082. ND-PURDUE fooball tix for sale. Kalie said so. Transportation needed. sentation on campus for screen Own this for $62,9001 Cobntact Cheap! Generous pay! print & embroidery company. Flex Prudential One Realty or Cherie 60x30 desk 60x30x72 desk + office Mark and Geoff: How Cute! 11 int"'ested, please call Karen hrs and flex pay. Call Dave al 800-TeRoller at 284-2600. chairs. AM -232-2378 Stonehill at 272-5013. 813-2113. 287-3373 ask for Cindy. PM -288-2726 


Thursday, September 13, 200 l The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

NFL 
Smith poised to pass 
Mon .. Sat 10:30 am .. 10 pm 
Sunday 11 :30 am .. 8pm Sanders' rush record 


Join Us To Cheer On 
THE FIGHTIN,G IRl:SH 
16" Chicago-Style Pizza w/ unlimited toppings $9.95 for a limited time 
Stop in and enjoy Michiana's favorite hot dog Voted #1 in Michiana 
Delivery available through dine-in 1733 South Bend Ave. (Located next to Turtle Creek -1/4 mile E. ofcampus) State Road 23 277-2527 
Must be 21 with valid ID to consume alcohol 
[THE ALLEY] 
-
I 

Automation Alley, the nation's newest and fastest growing technology cluster, offers you the best of all worlds. A professional environment based on mutual competition and collaboration. Access to hundreds of global innovators. Great job opportunities. Advancement potential within and across industries. _High pay and low cost-of-living expenses that really stack up when compared to other technology clusters. And, a terrific setting in one of the nation's most desirable places to build a career-Oakland County, Michigan. 
Indicator  Automation Alley (Oakland County)  Route 128 (Middlesex County)  Silicon Valley (Santa Clara County}  
Median Housing Price  $192,337  $284,609  $463,234  
Professional Salaries  
Mechanical Engineer  $64,227  $61,217  $68,298  
Electrical E']gineer Computer Programmer Computer Analyst Job Growth Since '97  $67,410 $54,184 $ 68;895 4.0%  $64,202 $51,602 $65,617 5.5%  $ 71,550 $57,821 $73,092 3.2%  
Cost of Living Allowance  114.3  121.9  141.7  

Average~ 100 

Apply for jobs online now @ www.automationalley.com Interested in internships? Check out our web site! 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 
If NFL games are played this weekend, Emmitt Smith could provide football fans with a special moment. With 64 yards rushing, Smith would pass Barry Sanders and become the second-leading rusher in league history. 
Smith, though, doesn't think milestones are what the nation needs right now. 
"A record "A record doesn't mean a safe for don't mean a such large
hill of beans when you 're 
hill of beans gatherings.
talking about people's 
when you are "I'd be talking about lives." lying if l peoples' lives," said it 
Smith said didn't cross
Emmet Smith 

Wednesday. my mind.'' "That's some­running back Cowboys
thing that comes and go. A record don't have anything to do with healing the country." 
Smith spent most of Tuesday glued to the television watching tragedies unfold in New York and Washington. When the president spoke, he made sure his two daughters were watch­ing, even though they're too young to understand what was happening. 
Smith knew some people who worked near the World Trade Center. He found out that one friend got away just in time. However, he also was with someone Tuesday who had a friend on American Airlines 
AU T 0 MAT 
A L L 
Flight 11. 
"I've seen the shuttle blow up, seen the Oklahoma City bombing," said Smith. who was among the Dallas players that visited the bombing site about a week later. ''I've never seen nothing of this type of devasta­tion upon our homeland." 
Many NFL players are urging commissioner Paul Tagliabue to call them off, out of sympa­thy as well as fear. They don't want to travel and want to be sure stadi­ums will be 
receiver 
W a-n e 

McGarity said. "Playing is also 
a way for me to not think about 
it... Cowboys coaches heard what was happening in New York and Washington before they arrived at Valley Ranch to put together the game plan for Sunday. They tried keeping focused on their work, but it wasn't easy. "Our coaches, in my opinion, did an excellent job of looking at Detroit, which they had to do, but at the same time they had the TVs on, which they had to do also," coach Dave Campo said. 
In partnership

I 0 N 
WTlh lhe Michigan Economic

y™ 
Developmen! Corporalion ~I 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 13, 2001 
PGA 

PGA cancels tournament 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
The American Express Championship was called off Wednesday because of the ter­rorist attacks in New York and Washington, the first time in five years the PGA Tour has canceled a tournament. 
The tour declined comment 
until it could issue a statement, but players cleaned out their lockers and headed to the park­ing lot. 
"It's pretty obvious, isn't it?" Ernie Els 
said as he carried his belong­ings to his car and tried to fig­ure out how to get home to South Africa. "It's a good deci­sion. This was the worst disas­ter ever. We can't go play a $5 million event." 
Moments later, U.S. Open champion Retief Goosen walked up the stairs to the clubhouse. "It's over," he said. 
The mood had been somber 

at Bellerive Country Club, site of the $5 million World Golf Championship event. Players were torn whether they should play in light of the terrorist attacks Tuesday, and many felt like they were simply going through the motions. 
No one complained about the cancellation. 
"I feel sorry for the people," 
"It's a good decision. This was the worst disaster ever. We can't go play a $5 million event." 
Ernie Els pro golfer 

said Nick Price, who won the 1992 P G A Championship at Bellerive, the last time St. Louis saw the world's best players. "But I don't think golf was on anyone's 
mind. I think everyone would rather be home with their fami­lies." 
The last time a tour event was canceled was in 1996, when the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am was called off after 36 holes because of bad weather. 
Sunshine bathed the tree­lined course Wednesday as fans quietly headed for the exit. 
MLB 

Diamondbacks ready to play 
A.sociated Pres• 

PHOENIX 
The Arizona Diamondbacks worked out in the otherwise empty Bank One Ballpark on Wednesday, and manager Bob Brenly is anxious to resume the season. 
"The sooner the better," he said. "It may sound trivial and Sfllfish, but ultimately life is going to get back to as near normal as it ever will. 
"I just think the sooner we can move forward and give fans something to take their minds off of what's going on, it will be bflneficial to everybody." 
Brenly said he doesn't mean to be insensilive. 
"We all just feel that we've come way to far this season to lose our focus on what it is we're trying to accomplish," he said. "We took Monday off and Tuesday off. It was just time to get guys back on the field and break a sweat, get our pitchers good," he said. "Baseball is good. Baseball's always good. I'd like to play this weekend." 
Commissioner Dud Selig's decision to call off games Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday wiped out Arizona's three-game home series with the Colorado Rockies. The Diamondbacks, who lead the NL West by 1 1/2 games. are scheduled to begin a three­game series in Milwaukee on Friday. 
Selig, however, has yet to say when the games would resume. 
"I think America would like to have something that they can feel good about," Grace said. "This baseball season is some­thing that a lot of fans feel good about. There's been a lot of great stuff that's happened this year in the game of baseball. 
"I think Colin Powell and President Bush said it," Grace said. "We have to keep going. We can't live in fear." 
Randy Johnson, who had been scheduled to start Wednesday night, said it isn't up to players to decide when the games go on. 
"We're talking about life and death here, we're not talking about wins and losses." he said. "It's completely understandable if all sports shut down for awhile." 
He also said there must be concern for safety as crowds of 50,000 or 60,000 gather for football or baseball games. 
"I don't think it's any players position to say when it should start," Johnson said, "because this is far beyond athletics." 
Although there has been no official announcement, it's pos­sible that the three games with Colorado could be made up at the end of the regular season. That would allow the Diamondbacks to finish with nine consecutive games at home. 

throwing again and get our bat-,-------------------------­
ters swinging the bats." 

Mark Grace said he spent 16 hours watching the events unfold on television from the terrorist attacks in New York City and Washington, D.C. He said he also hopes to get back to work in the next few days. 
''I'd like to have baseball be one of the things that Americans can look to that is 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
Seasons Wanted Individual Games 
Preferred Tickets 
234-5650 

Thursday, September 13, 2001 
The Obseroer . SPORTS 



The

Snite 
fJf Museum 
art 

Opening reception for Fall exhibition on Sunday, September 16, from 2-4 pm. Gallery talks will be presented from 3-4 pm. 
Rembrandt Prints 

Rembrandt's Personal Vision of the Bible 
Ten Years ofCollecting Photographs 
Images from the Permanent Collection 
Artist Glexis Novoa Installation 
A New Vision for the Basillica of the Sacred Heart 
Master Drawings 

Recent Gifts from the Collection of John D. Reily '83 
Reception is free and open to the public. Call 219-631-5466 for information. 
connec/-@screenblasf.com 
Spread me. Swap me. Trade me. Share me with anyone you like. With Screenblast,"' you can watch stuff, mess with it, post it 
on your Showcase page to share vour creative vision with the 
world. Now get out there. 

L_ 
page 19 

NCAA GYMNASTICS 
UCSB coach killed in terrorist plane crash 
Associated Press 
SANTA BARBARA, Calif. 
Mari-Rae Sopper, the women's gymnastics coach at UC Santa Barbara, was aboard one of the flights downed by terrorists. 
She was traveling on the American Airlines flight from Washington that crashed into the Pentagon on Tuesday, according to a list released by 
the airline. 
Gymnastics dropped by UCSB on Aug. 10 but was reinstated three days later for one year, and Sopper was hired as coach less than two weeks ago. 
School offi­cials chose to keep the sport for one more season after the athletes complained they had not 
had been 
"She was an incredible person who had done so much in her life. She had an awesome attitude and was so in love with the sport. She was getting pumped up to come back." 
Lesley Ross gymnast 
been given enough time to transfer to other schools. 
"What is so amazing about Mari-Rae is that she knew the program would only be in exis­tence for one more year, but she accepted the job with so much enthusiasm," UCSB junior Cara Simkins told the Santa Barbara News-Press. "We were supposed to get together with her on Sunday in a meet-the-team barbecue. 
"We had been e-mailing her, and her e-mails were so enthu­siastic. Her arms were so wide open for us. She cared so much." 
Sopper had been an assistant coach and choreographer for the U.S. Naval Academy's women's gymnastics team before taking the job at UCSB. She also served as a graduate assistant at the University of Denver for one year, as the floor exercise coach and chore­ographcr for the Colorado Gymnastics Institute for three years, and as a Junior Olympic gymnastics coach in Dallas for three more years. 
In high school, Sopper was honored as the outstanding senior gymnast in Illinois in 
1984. 
She grad­uated from Iowa State in 1988 and received a master's in athletic admin,istra­tion from North Texas in 1993. Three years later, she graduated from the University of Denver College of 

Law. 
"She was an incredible per­son who had done so much in her life," said Lesley Ross, a sophomore gymnast at UCSB. "She had an awesome attitude and was so in love with the sport. She was getting us all pumped up to come back." 
Simkins said the teammates she has spoken with still plan to compete this year. 
"I think we just have to keep going, take everything what's happened into our season, and try to come out of it even stronger," she said. "We can't go out like cowards." 
Celebrating their 38th season, Ririe-Woodbury Dance Company is heralded as a powerful force in modern dance. Thursday, Sept. 20, 2001 at 7:30 PM O'Laughlin Auditorium 
J.,i~IM.,,.~ C•"fl'O
MO U 

FOR TICKET INFORMATION CALL THE / c;.~~ 
SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE AT 284-4626 ~.:.'::.~~.IN 
page 20 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 13, 2001 
NASCAR 
Cars taken off track after attacks 
Associated Press 
NASCAR temporarily took its 

cars off the track after terrorist 
attacks in New York and 
Washington, but the sanctioning 
body is still deciding whether or 
not to run the New Hampshire 
300 this weekend. 
A test session at ·the new 

Kansas Speedway was stopped 
Tuesday after word of the 
attacks spread, with teams 
packing their crews and equip­
ment up into automobiles to 
drive the 700 miles back to 
Charlotte, N.C. 
At the same time, NASCAR 

canceled Friday's qualifying 
and practice session at New 
Hampshire International 
Speedway -but held off on 
calling Sunday's race. 
"Our country has experienced a terrible tragedy," NASCAR president Mike Helton said. "All of the NASCAR community offers our sincerest sympathies to all those who have suffered losses. We will continue to mon­itor and evaluate this situation and make the appropriate deci­sions as the week progresses." 
If the race is run, the 43-car field will be set by points. 
Meanwhile, the NASCAR Craftsman Truck Series' Silverado 350 scheduled for Saturday at Texas Motor Speedway remains on schedule, as does Sunday's Chevy 500 Indy Racing Northern Light Series, track president Eddie Gossage said. 
"We have been in discussions with both the Indy Racing League and NASCAR and are discussing the possible options," Gossage said. "At this time, we are moving ahead as planned for the Chevy 500 race week events." 
NASCAR · driver Jeremy Mayfield said he wanted the New Hampshire race to contin­ue. 
"As horrible as Tuesday was, we need to keep moving for­ward," Mayfield said. "The easy thing would be the stay home, 
crawl into bed and pull the cov­
ers up over our heads. The hard 
thing, like this, is usually the 
right thing to do." 
But Dale Jarrett, speaking on 
a previously scheduled confer­
ence call, hoped the sanctioning 
body would consider how diffi­
cult it could be for teams to get 
to the race track following the 
FAA-ordered shutdown on air 
traffic. 

Jarrett was scheduled to fly to 
Connecticut for a personal 
appearance Tuesday night, a 
trip that was canceled because 
of the halt on air traffic. 
"With what's taken place 
here, you have to be concerned 
for safety and we also have to 
make sure that this is the right 
thing for us to be doing at this 
particular time," Jarrett said. "I 
think we do have to look at that. 
Is it safe for us to travel, along 
with the other teams in the 
other sports? 
"And is that the thing to be 
doing or do we just need to 
make sure that we have every­
thing under control and we're 
doing everything with our 
nation's best interest in mind?" 
Very few race teams fly com­mercially, but that made little difference on Tuesday as dri­vers were stranded all across the country. 
Jimmy Spencer was at an air­port in Houston on his way to meet a sponsor when the shut­down was announced. He had to rent a car to get back to North Carolina. 
The same went for Johnny Benson, one of a handful of dri­vers who cut short their test session in Kansas. 
James [nee, Benson's crew chief, said the decision to stop the test was partly based on the lack of emergency aircraft available in case of an on-track accident. 
"We felt it was best to come home," Ince said. "There just wasn't any desire to run after what we watched on television today." 

!}{ere ye, fiere ye, %embers oftlie. Student 13ody 
Your presence is requested at the Notre Dame Student Government's first 

Issues to be debated shall be... 
*FOOTBALL TICKET DISTRIBUTION *FRESHMEN ORIENTATION 
Please report to... 
The NOTRE DAME ROOM 
(Second floor of LaFortune) 
TUESDAY, SEPT.18 8:00 P.M. 
'l('E J?l('ES:J{'lv['E'}{{S S:Ji:JL£L '131£ SE(j{'VF/D 
create@screenblast.com 
Change me. Crop me. Control me. Manipulate me any way you want. With the Screenblast Creation Suite'" of editing tools and personal Stash,'" you 're not just a viewer; 
you're a creator. Now get busy. 

Thursday, September 13, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

2001 

thursday
september 1.3 
6:00 pm -8:30 pm 
Undergraduate seniors, second-year MBAs, MS in Accountancy students 
(attire is business formal) 
friday

sep_tember 14 
9:30am-3:30pm 
All students regardless of degree, major, college, or year 
(attire is business casual) 
joyce center north dome 
(hockey rink side), ent~r gate 3 

findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating companies, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to "careercenter.nd.edu" 


• 
Click on the "Go IRISH" title bar and enter username and password 

• 
Click 11Jobs" and then "Find Employers" 

• 
Scroll to and click on "Advanced Search" 

• 
Scroll to Career Center Events, click on "College of Business Career Fair;' click on "Search" 


ND 
THE 
CAREER 
University of Notre Dame 

Mendoza College of Business CENTER 

participating 8 
AAR Abbott Laboratories ABN AMRO/LaSalle Bank Accenture ACNielsen ACNielsen BASES, US Allegiance Healthcare 
Corporation Alta Pharmaceuticals (a division of Pfizer) American Express Financial Advisors Ameritech/SBC Global 
Network Andersen AON Corporation Applied Systems, Inc. AT&T Bain & Company Bank One Corporation Baxter Healthcare Corporation BOO Seidman Bloomberg Financial Markets Boston Consulting Group BP Oil Company California Franchise Tax Board Carson Pirie Scott & Co. Central Intelligence Agency Chicago Consulting Actuaries Citigroup Corporate and 
Investment Bank/Salomon Smith Barney Clarity Con_sulting Cochran, Caronia & Company Comerica Bank Crowe Chizek Dain Rauscher Wessels Davis Conder Enderle & Sloan Defense Finance and Accounting Service Deloitte & Touche Deloitte Consulting DePuy (a Johnson & Johnson Company) Driehaus Capital Management E& J Gallo Winery Eli Lilly & Company Enterprise Rent-A-Car Ernst & Young Factset Research Systems FBOP Corporation Fifth Third Bank General Electric General Mills Gibson and Associates Goldman, Sachs & Co. Great West Life Headstrong HEB Grocery Company Honeywell
• 

IBM Corporation lnteCap 
3 Janssen Pharmaceutica (a 
Johnson & Johnson Company) .,.. Johnson &Johnson "-' Jordan & Jordan 
DI

Keane Consulting Group (formerly Bricker 
:,-·

& Associates) Kmart KPMG 
(R

Kraft 
Liberty Mutual Life Investors Lincoln Partners Lutron Electronics Co. Marriott Vacation Club Mass Mutual Insurance May Department Stores 
Company Men's Wearhouse Morgan Stanley National City Corporation News America Marketing Northwestern Mutual 
Financial Network -Hoopis Group Oak Brook Bank 
Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical {a Johnson & Johnson Company) 
Peterson Consulting/Navigant Pfizer PNC Financial Services PricewaterhouseCoopers Pri merica/Citigrou p Procter & Gamble Company Quad/Graphics Robert W. Baird & Company SEI Investments Corporation Smart & Associates Spear, Leeds & Kellogg Stout Risius Ross, Inc. Strong Capital Management Susquehanna International 
Group Target Teach for America Technology Services Group Towers Perrin Travelers Insurance UBS Warburg ULINE UnumProvident The Vanguard Group VW Credit Watson Wyatt Worldwide Wells Fargo Bank William Blair ~ Company William tv1 . .v,.:rcer 
... 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 13, 2001 
NFL 

Tuesday's tragedy may ground Jets, league 
do is get on a plane and go to focus. Asked if the nation needed sands of people that are going
Associated Press 

California for a game when "They've already canceled something such as football to to be dead. all four of those planes that college football and pushed help in the healing process, "What everyone has to think
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. 

were hijacked were going to back the start of the golf tour­Edwards replied that this may about in America is you need
The New York Jets don't 

California," he said. "My sug­nament and maybe they won't not be the time. some closure. Is it over? Nowant to travel to Oakland for gestion is if they want to play play that. Baseball's called off "I think sports can [be a one probably knowstheir weekend game with the these games, each owner has games. For us to be the only relief], but then this is not Everyone is hoping it is over
Raiders in the aftermath of 

to travel with his team to the league playing? I don't like a plane fell out of the and everyone is safe. But Iterrorist attacks. 
game. know." sky," he said. "This is a little don't know if anyone canAlmost to a man, Jets play­"Even if everything goes Without knowing if' the NFL different, more devastating to answer that. 
ers said Wednesday they 

accordingly, by the time we would make a decision on me than Pearl Harbor. "That is where you get intobelieve the NFL should cancel get off the plane we will all be Wednesday, the Jets conduct­"These people attacked us, the point where we have to
or postpone this weekend's 

shot from the stress and ed a full practice. it wasn't an accident. It was move on, but where is thatgames. 
nerves of not knowing ... we'll But it hardly was a focused thought out and they did it. point. When is it time for this
"I don't understand why 

be exhausted getting off that one. There are. going to be thou-country to heal?"
we're here today," said quar­

plane. I don't think anyone "It's a lot to have on your
terback Vinny Testaverde. "I 

wants to play." mind," safety Victor Green
think all the 

The Jets said. "We have to prepare like 
games should 

made their we'll have to play, so for two
be canceled "J don't understand why 
sentiments or 2 1/2 hours on the field you
this week. 

we're here today. I think clear to NFL try to forget about it and
"It's uncon­

Players focus on what you have to do.
scionable to all games should be 
Association "I think everybody feels the
think this 

cancelled this week.,, 
executive same way, that it will be can­
could hap­

director celed. We'll all try to find a 
pen. We're 

G e n e way to play and be profes­
Vinny Testaverde 
all speechless 

Upshaw. sionals, but all the games
on what hap­Jets quarterback 
Player rep should be canceled, across
pened, but 

K e v i n the board." 
we '11 try to 

M aw a e Coach Herman Edwards
get through it and try to help 

spoke with Upshaw on wanted to have the players
people who suffered losses 

Wednesday. give blood, but the team's
and have been hurt." 

"It's not hard to read the doctors said the recuperation
Testaverde echoed the sen­

team," Mawae said. period for playing football
timents of many teammates 

"Everything we've talked would be too long. Edwards
about traveling cross-country 

about in here is not the said the Jets plan to do some­
on Friday for Sunday's game 

Raiders. It's 'Who saw what?' thing for the families of vic­
against the Raiders. 

'Who did it?' That's the main tims at some -point. 
"The last thing we want to 

Now open for lunch ·7 days a week 

Free Deliverx 

271-0300 

Your Campus Delivery Expert Serving you from 11 :00 a.m. Everyday 
Campus Special #1 Campus Special #2 Can1pus Special #3 
Hot and Now!! Thin Thursdays Feed A Friend 
Large Thin Crust
Large One Topping Pizza Add A 2 Liter Bottle of
Pepperoni Pizza
And An Order Of Twisty Coke Or Twisty Bread
(Thursdays Only)
Bread To Any Order For Only 
..$7.99 ..$5.99 ..$1.99
C2001 Dom.Ino•! P\z:r:11, LLC Coupon Not VaUd Deep Db.1111.00 Extra. With any other offer, Offer valid with Coupon ,02001 Donun\,1°::t Piz~. LLC Coup,.1n Not Vali£1 With C:?001 DonDl's Piu.-:1.. U..C Coupon Nr,1 Valid With only. Valid at p•rtlclpatln1 stores onl:r-Prices May :my olhtr llt°ter. Otl".:-r v::alkl wirh C.,i,upon \lffly. Valid ;my 01ht-:r ,1ffer, OflCr vu.lid with O.~upun only. Viuii.l V¦Q. Customer pa,s -.aln u.x when appUcuble. u, panil:iput.i.n!-! :,11.vn::'-vn.ly. Pr,...~~ Muy Vary. at panK'ipnt!Jll ,t~1rn ,,nly. PJ"lC'ff Mqy V:u-y. Our drtven N"")' leu th~n $20. cash valu• l/204 Cu!ltoflE,r pa~ ~Jes tax. where applicahl~. Our dri..,er5 Customi?r p:iy:i: ~!; tu. wher~ applic:ih&e. Our dri._,~ 1-iurry, limited time only! c::u-ry ~!IN. tht.:n S20. Cu.<•h \•u!uc: J/!0¢ carry ~~s Ult'tl $20. C11iah value I/lo¢ Hurry, limited time only! Hurry, llmlted ttme ontyl 
------------· 


We have lunch huffet seven days a week; 
. 
10% discount for all students and staff. 
. 
We are at the corner of Grape Road & McKinely at 1(-Mart Plaza. 
. 
Phone: 254-9070 

Sometimes, opportunity can end up right in the palm of your hand. Since becoming a member of Citigroup, we've become part of one of the largest financial services companies on the planet. And that translates into an environment where careers can really go places. When you join Travelers, you're joining an innovative leader. So make the right move with us and enjoy world class benefits from day one. 
Stop by our booth at the Career Fair to learn about our Development Program opportunities. Date: September 14, 2001 
We're looking for talented individuals in the areas of: 
• 
Information Technology • Actuarial Science 

• 
Finance • Math/Statistics 


If you can't join us, please submit resume Indicating area of interest to: College Relations, Travelers, One Tower Square, SCZ, Hartford, CT 06183. Fax: 860-277-1970. Email: college@travelers.com 

Travelerst' 
Visit our Web site: www.travelers.com 
We are an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer, committed to workforce diversity. We actively promote a drug.free workplace. 
-----------------------. --. 
be honest." think we're really getting the Davie said he did not know whole feel of it out here in the 
Irish 
of any players who were Midwest." continued from page 28 immediately affected by the "I was scared, I was angry, I 
tragedy had all these feeling inside," 
However. several Notre said Weaver. "I didn't know 
"I think it was the right deci­Dame players who are from how to react. I just know when sion," added co-captain the East Coast have felt the I saw it, I called my family to Anthony Weaver. "There's a effects of the terrorist attacks. make sure all my loved ones lot more important things "Things are going crazy are all right." 
going on right now. It puts where I live back home [inthings in perspective ... It's New Jersey)." quarterback 
Contact Andrew Soukup at
hard for us to be out there. to Matt LoVecchio said. "I don't 
asoukup@nd.edu. 
NHL 
League cancels 
preseason games 
Robinson said. "It just left a 
Associated Press 
horrible empty feeling in the pit of my stomach." 
Cancelled 
continued from page 28 
The conference left deci­sions regarding non-confer­ence competition to the dis­cretion of each school. 
All of Notre Dame's sched­uled events were against non­conference teams. 
"We believe the horrific developments Tuesday war­rant a national period of bereavement and a moratori­um as far as athletics are con­cerned," Irish athletic direc­tor Kevin White said in a statement. "Consistent with the Big East decision not to compete in any sports, we have postponed all athletic events through the weekend." 
The only campus event post­poned was the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament, to be hosted by the Irish men's soc­cer team on Alumni Field Friday and Sunday. St. Mary's (Calif.), Akron and Rhode Island were all scheduled to visit Notre Dame for the tour­nament, which was to honor former Irish men's soccer coach Berticelli, who passed away suddenly from a heart attack in February, 2000. It is unlikely that the games will be made up. 
"We talked to the Berticelli family [Wednes-dayJ and we're going to honor Mike," assistant men's soccer coach Mike Avery said. "We're going to do that tentatively sched­uled for the Oct. 5 game against Georgetown." 
Avery also expressed some concern about the 10-day gap between Notre Dame's last game last Sunday and Board Purdue Premier in West Lafayette this weekend. Purdue suspended the four­team tournament which was to include Purdue, Notre Dame, Tulane and Indiana State. 
"Every effort will be made to reschedule our events, but we feel strongly that we should treat all sports the same and suspend events 
their next "Obviously we'd love to contest 
, be playing, but we're also 
Wednesday 
very mindful ofthe
against Cleveland tragedy that's gone on. State. 
The decision that the 
"Obviously 
athletic department
we'd love to be playing. made to postpone all the but we're 
contests is a good one. " 
also very. very mindful of the Mike Avery tragedy assistant soccer coach 
that's gone on," Avery said. "The decision that the athletic department made to postpone all the contests is a good one." 
The Irish women's volleyball squad, whose home game against Michigan on Wednesday night was can­celled on Tuesday. was sched­uled to compete at the Mortar scheduled for this week­end," Morgan Burke, Purdue's director of intercolle­giate athlet­ics said in a statement. 

The Irish golf teams will not be competing in their sched­uled season debuts this weekend. 

Women's golf was to take part in the Mary Fossum Michigan State Invitational. The men were to travel to Iowa City for the Northern Collegiate Tournament. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter. l@nd.edu. 
NEW YORK 
The NHL canceled all of Saturday's preseason games Wednesday, a day after the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington D.C. 
The league will likely decide on the status of Sunday's games on Thursday. The NHL offices, located in Manhattan, were closed Wednesday but expected to reopen Thursday. 
The New York Rangers called off plans to hold their training camp at Madison Square Garden on Wednesday. The team was scheduled to train at its home arena for the first time in its 76-year history. 
Practice was postponed until Thursday, but will be held, without fans in atten­dance, at the team's training facility in Rye. 
Garnet "Ace" Bailey, the Los Angeles Kings director of pro scouting, and Mark Bavis, an amateur scout, were among the 65 people on United Airlines Flight 175 -the second plane to hit the skyscrapers in New York. The Boeing 767 was scheduled to fly from Boston to Los Angeles. 
The Kings, however. opened camp on schedule Wednesday, but postponed their Saturday game against the Anaheim Mighty Ducks before the NHL made its decision to cancel all games. 
Once the game is played, the team said all proceeds will be donated to the fami­lies of New York City police and firefighters killed in relief efforts. 
New Jersey coach Larry Robinson, who coached four seasons with Los Angeles, knew Bailey. 
"I lost a friend yesterday," 
Only the Rangers canceled practice, but other teams struggled to go on. 
"It's not an easy thing to try to motivate yourself for practice," Minnesota goalie Manny Fernandez said. 
Devils left wing Jay Pandolfo and Bavis were teammates at Boston University. 
The Wild expect to travel to Calgary, Alberta, on Friday night for a game against the Flames on Saturday. 
"Some guys are maybe a little more scared than oth­ers, Minnesota coach Jacques Lemaire said. "I feel comfortable. Hopefully, we'll be able to move on." 
The Toronto Maple Leafs decided not to go anywhere. Instead of having camp in St. John's, Newfoundland, the Leafs scrapped those plans and remained in Toronto. 
On Wednesday, the Maple Leafs held the first scrim­mage at their practice rink. 
"Even if we could fly, there is no room in St. John's so, unfortunately, we won't be able to go," general manager and coach Pat Quinn said. 
Montreal and Toronto are supposed to play each other Sunday night in St. John's. 
The Buffalo Sabres hoped to open their camp Wednesday in St. Catharines, Ontario, but changed their minds because of Canadian border concerns. 
The Sabres practiced in Buffalo on Wednesday and will try again to shift opera­tions into Canada on Thursday. 
"I think for a while it will be very hard for anyone to go about doing anything and feel normal," Sabres defenseman Jay McKee said. 
SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Carmen Nanni Student Returnees 
Thursday, September 13, 2001 231 DeBartolo 5:00-6:30 p.m. 
Notre Dame Film. Television, and Theatre presents 

IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO APPLY FOR SPRING 2002. 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2001 for Spring 2002 
Dec. 1, 2001 for Fall '02 and All Year 2002-03 Applications Available: www.ncl.edu/~intlstud/ 
by William Shakespeare 
·u/­
--~-_.\\ 
; .. •-·_ •··· ·· ", Thursday, September 20 .............. 7:30 p.m. 
\" . ,. . _; 
Friday, September 21 ................... 7:30 p.m.
' ' 
~ ,, ,'/ 
'~.._ ···---Saturday, September 22 ............. 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
Thursday, September 13, 2001  The Observer . SPORTS  page 23  

page 24 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
affected by the blast and the match would only require ground travel. Therefore, both coaches and athletic directors decided that the best thing they could do for their athletes was to try to get them back into a nor­mal routine. 
"Personally l think it's good for them to get back out there and get into a routine," Saint Mary's head coach Bobby Johnston said. "All of them are obviously affect­ed. We're trying to ... take their minds off of it." 
The decision to play comes in the midst of most Division I leagues cancelling their athletic competitions not only for tonight, but for the rest of the weekend as well. However, with a lower profile and the needs of the ath­letes being at the forefront of the coaches' minds, Johnston and Kachmarik made what they con­sidered to be the best decision. 
"This isn't [a decision] that's black and white," Johnston said. "We hope we're doing what's right for the athletes." 
Despite facing feelings of uncertainty, the women on the soccer team are satisfied with the decision and are looking for­ward to the benefits that playing again will bring with it. 
"It will be good ... to take a break from the rest of the world and play," team captain Lynn Taylor said. "I think that a lot of people are in the same position that they want to do something where they don't want to think about [the attacks]." 
"I think its best for us to go on with our season," junior Heather Muth added. "We're going to have to face it and get back into 
it.,. Although the Saint Mary's ath­letic department has made the decision to move things forward and continue on with regular season play, its members have not forgotten about the personal needs of the athletes. Both Kachmarik and Johnston were present at Tuesday's prayer ser­vice held at Saint Mary's and are keeping the well-being of their athletes at the forefront of their minds. "Its hard," Johnston said. "Each player is reacting to things differently. It definitely has 
touched many of the players and they definitely are sensitive to the issues at hand." 
The athletes are aware of the support coming not only from their athletic department, but from each other as well. 
"There's been complete sup­port from the athletic depart­ment," Muth said. "For me, being out there with my team, its been good to have all these people that care about me around me." 
"It was nice to be with my teammates because I couldn't get ahold of all or them [Tuesday] to make sure they were doing OK," senior Jessica Klink added. 
The team took the field yester­day after Tuesday's practice was cancelled due to the closing of the college. 
Despite the tension caused by Tuesday's disastr.r, the women on the team were glad to leave their television sets and release some nervous energy. 
"Practice was pretty laid back and it was really relaxing to get away from the TV," Klink said. 
"Its been a good relea..,;e for me personally to kind of walk away from the television and release all the frustration," Muth added. 
Now that the decision to play has been made, the biggest prob­lem facing the Belles will be focus. Wednesday's practice showed that the concentration required to stay in any collegiate competition may suffer under the strain of a national tragedy. 
"[The attack] was definitely in the back of all the players' minds," Johnston said. "I think that our focus was not as much as it should have been ... Hopefully we can move in." 
Players agree that a Division III soccer game is a difficult thing to focus energy on. Putting Tuesday's tragedy in the back of their minds and trying to focus on getting the ball in the net is already weighing on the Belles' minds. 
"I think one of our team's biggest challenges will be focus­ing," Muth said. "... Obviously a horrible thing has happened and its hard to step away from that for a minute and try to play a game that is really not very important in the scheme of the world right now." 
The game will kick off tonight at 4 p.m.at the Saint Mary's soc­cer field. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 13, 2001 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Blast cancels competition 
By JOE LICANORO 
Sports Writer 

In the wake of Tuesday's tragedy, the sports world does not seem so important any more. A day after one of the darkest 
moments in Amer­ican histo­ry, it came to no sur­prise that all Irish athletic 


cumpeti-Waldrum 

tion schcd­u 1 e d through Sunday was post­poned. 
As a result the Notre Dame women's soccer team will be unable to play some top­rnnkcd competition this week­end as their games in California against Santa Clara and Stanford were cancelled. The chances of these games being rescheduled are slim because the Notre Dame's regular season schedule is full until the start of the Big East tournament in early November. 
Flying to California certainly complicates matters even more as air travel will undoubtedly be extremely hectic and difficult over the course of the next few months. 
"I think it was the right decision to cancel the games," said head coach Randy Waldrum. "I don't think in our good conscience that we could travel out to California and not be able to ensure the safe­ty of these kids. We hate to lose these two games, but we have to put things in perspec­tive." 
Captain Mia Sarkesian fur­ther echoed the sentiments of her coach. 
"I definitely think it was the right decision," Sarkesian said. "Soccer really does not seem so important right now. We would have loved to play those two games, but in light of what happened, this was the right thing to do." 
While the Irish are disap­pointed over the cancellation of their games this weekend, they plan to use these next two weeks to recuperate from injuries and work on their fundamental approach to the game. 
Starters Ali Lovelace, Randi Scheller, Ashley Drier, and Mary Bolton have all been sidelined recently due to injuries so the extra rest could work to Notre Dame's advan­tage as they look to regain their form l'rom last year and make another run at the NCM championship. 
"I don't think the two-week layoff will effect us. We need to get healthy. We can still stay back here and focus on getting better as a team," said star midfielder Scheller. "Each day my left leg feels a little stronger. I participated in the full practice today, and I should be ready in two weeks." 
While a two-week layoff is a long time in between games, the Irish do not expect the break to effect their overall play. Waldrum plans to con­duct practices every day this week and prepare diligently for the rest of the season. 
The Irish plan to conduct a scrimmage Friday against some former high-school play­ers who now attend Notre Dame. 
"We need to keep the same rhythm going," Waldrum said. "We plan to hold a scrimmage on Friday against the guys that help us train every day. This we'll give us a chance to simulate game action and work on our weaknesses." 
Notre Dame will not be in action again until Friday, Sept. 21 at home against Villanova. After four games this season, Notre Dame's record stands at 3-0-1. The cancellation of the trip pre­vents the Irish from taking their first road trip of the sea­s011. The team will not play its first road game until Sept. 28 against the University of Pittsburgh. _ 
Despite the missed opportu­nity to gain some valuable road experience, the Irish will be fine at the end of the sea­son. "I don't expect that miss­ing those two games will hurt us," Scheller said. "If any­thing, we will come out more focused and more excited than before. After two weeks of practicing against each other, we will be more than ready to play another game." 
Contact Joe Licandro at Joseph.R.Licandro@nd.edu. 


NEW STUDY OPPORTUNITY IN JAPAN! 
HAVE AYEN TO STUDY IN JAPAN? 
:;J,j I 
You can now study in Tokyo for asemester Through University of Notre Dame International Study Programs. 
NO PRIOR LANGUAGE STUDY REQUIRED 
INFORMATION SESSION 
5:00 PM 

Thursday, September 13 116 DeBartolo 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR SPRING 2002: 5EPTEMBER 15 
Thursday, September 13, 2001 page 25
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Asian American Students Retreat• 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Latino Freshman Retreat 
Sacred Heart Parish Center. 
807 Mass 
8:00p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 

urdav 

Voices of Faith Welcome Back Dinner 
3:00 p.m. 103 Coleman-Morse Center 


RCIA Inquiry Session 
Liturgical year 
10:00a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Rejoice! African American 
Catholic, Mass 
10:00 p.m. Notre Dame Our Mother Chapel Coleman-Morse Center 


Fiesta Bienvenida 
4:30 p.m. 103 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation-Session #1 
7:00p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
--~ 
'it 

Freshman Retreat#36, 
(September 28-291 
Tuesday, Augu$t 2~ 
through September 24 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
A Notre Dame Moment A Notre Dame Response 
¦ By Fr. Richard Warner, CSC, Director of Campus Ministry 
This past Tuesday will be a day which all of us will remember for as long as we live, not only 
because of the tragic events which gripped our nation, but also because of the common 
experience we shared on the South Quad at 3:00 p.m. 
Before the Mass which brought together many thousands of Notre Dame people, we experi­enced confusion, anger and shock. We spent hours before television sets which deepened these feelings as incredible as they were. We heard the latest facts and rumors, and we sought out friends with whom we could share our grief and find consolation. 
The Mass on the Quad was what we often refer to as a "Notre Dame moment." It was a mo­ment frozen now in time in our hearts, spirits and memories, which brought us together once again, thanks co rhe sacramental ministry and life of the Church. We heard the Word of God, we 
' 11You 'ARE GOOD AND FORGIVING, FOLL OF LOVE TO ALL WHO CALL TO YOO" PSALM 85 
raised our voices in song with choirs and musicians through psalms and songs which spoke to us of God's encouragement and love. We listened closely to Father Malloy's words. We participated in the Eucharistic prayer, shared a sign of peace with one another. And we were joined together as brothers and sisters in faith through our sharing in the Body and Blood ofJesus, uniting us as nothing else can or will. We sang the Alma Mater together, with a view of the Dome to our left just above 
the trees. We were with friends. We wondered what it could possibly be like to lose a loved one in this tragic way no one is prepared to experience. We examined our sense ofwhat happened in the light of the deepest sense of unity that a Catholic Mass brings about so meaningfully. 
The regular Gospel reading for the day from Luke 6, began with the words "Jesus went out co the mountain to pray ... " Jesus prayed often. He prayed before his life of ministry began, and he prayed in the Garden of Olives on the evening before his death. 
As Jesus finished his prayer, he selected from among those people present twelve men who would be his disciples. They probably couldn't comprehend the grace they had been given. They would be the closest collaborators and friends ofJesus. They would experience fear as opposition to him grew. They would abandon him after his arrest, and not dare approach the cross on which he hung. But they would also preach the Good News of the life, death and resurrection ofJesus throughout the world. And, save one, they would each die a martyr's death. 
"Do this in memory of me," are the words that bring believers together around the Eucharistic table. They did on Tuesday. They do ever day, many times, on our Campus and throughout the world. The Notre Dame moment we experienced so dramatically on Tuesday, we can experience as 



often as we wish. 
The declaration ofTuesday as a "Day of Prayer" was the only way Notre Dame could mark such a moment. And a Mass which brought us together for an hour, with Jesus Christ present among us, helped us to begin to find some answers to what we experienced Tuesday and will experience again. 
In the days ahead, we will continue to pray for rhe victims ofTuesday's tragedies and their loved ones. We will remember in a special way those members of our community who were directly affected by the tragedy. 
Flll)':·.
~ •.1:.· . .•.. 9'·.· 
.9Tcrr LET YOUR HEART•SJ"11&8£··TROUBLED. 

HA~ J~~.,... 
N Goo AND 
JOHN 14:1 
i~. 

1 Evil and pain, death and tragic sadness will be our occasional companions. But Jesus Christ is ­
and will be God's permanent gift oflove, because Jesus "will be with us all days," even as he was with us on Tuesday. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

r 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 13, 2001 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

NCAA leaves game decisions to conferences 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Editor 
The NCM has decided to give individual conferences and teams the authority to postpone football games on Saturday rather than make one decision, conference comm1ss10ners announced Wednesday 
All 10 Division I football con­ference commissioners, in a mid-afternoon conference call, agreed to let their respective member schools decide whether or not to play Saturday after­noon. 
It appears that if conferences are allowing teams to compete Saturday, all conference games will still be played. Games involving non-conference oppo­nents· wHI be played at the dis­cretion of the two teams. 
So far, the SEC, Big Ten, Big 12, Mid-American, Conference USA, Mountain West, and WAC have decided to allow their teams to compete Saturday in both conference and non-confer­ence games with few exceptions. The Pac-10 and Big East both postponed all league games. 
Notre Dame and Purdue post­poned their game in part because the Big East suggested all games be rescheduled. Although the Irish football pro­gram is independent, the rest of Notre Dame's athletic programs compete in the Big East confer­different atmosphere out there ence. Notre Dame athletic direc­today, and I can only imagine tor Kevin White confirmed that what it would have been like Notre Dame cancelled its game yesterday." because of the Big East morato­Both the SEC and the Big Ten rium. decided to donate $1 million to 

"We certainly agree with his assist victims on Tuesday's ter­decision, in light of the current rorist attacks. White said he had situation," said George Kelly, not discussed the possibility of special assistant to White. "We the Big East making a similar know who we are and we think gesture. nor did he say that this tells the world who we are Notre Dame planned any action and how we feel at this particu­on its own. lar time." "The Notre Dame community 
"Our footbaH athletic directors has always responded in the voted unanimously to postpone right way to these kind of emer­Saturday's gencies," said games," Big White. "I just 
East commis­"We think this tells the don't know 
sioner Michael w h a t
world who we are and
Tranghese [University said in a pre­how we feel at this president pared state­Father
particular time." 
ment. "In Edward] memory of the Malloy has 
George Kelly
victims and thought thejr families, Notre Dame special assistant about pri­our football vately, we're teams will still working wear American flags on the through the early innings of all back of their helmets for the rest this." of the season." Conference commissioners 
Notre Dame head coach Bob agreed that if a school has to Davie refused to comment on cancel a game on Saturday, the teams who chose to play games school will not be held back on Saturday. from bowl competition if they 
"I think the right decision was finish with a 5-5 record. made [for the Irish to postpone Normally, a team needs six wins its game]." he said. "I think we to qualify for a bowl game. made the right decision not In all, 36 football games have practicing yesterday. I sensed a been postponed, including matchups between No. 1 Miami­No. 13 Washington, No .. 5 Florida State-No.11 Georgia Tech and No. 12 UCLA-Arizona State. No makeup date has been officially announced. 
Two SEC schools, No. 2 Florida and No. 8 Tennessee, are both still scheduled to play against each other Saturday in what is easily the nation's most high-profile college football game. 
The NCAA could still postpone Saturday's games if President George W. Bush issues an exec­utive order or declares Saturday a day of national mourning. Tuesday, NCAA President Cedric Dempsey said the NCAA would cooperate with any federal dec­larations. 

Travel complications could mean more games could be postponed, as well. 
All three football games origi­nally scheduled to be played Thursday night were postponed. Texas Tech and UTEP tentative­ly moved their game to Saturday night, while Ohio and North Carolina State rescheduled their game on Nov. 24. Penn State and Virginia still have not set a make-up date for their game. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

.

MD AFTER FIVE e
' 

ThursdaLJr Sept. 13 
5:00 p.m. "Remembering Bataan: 1941-2001" lecture by 2It Thomas P. Foy, Jr, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
.6:00 p.m. One Night Volleyball Tournament, Riehle Sand Courts 
7:00 
p.m. ND Cinema, Pollock, Hesburgh Library Auditorium* 

7:00 
p.m. Freshmen Intro First Year Partner Reception, Coleman-Morse Center 


8:30 
p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop In La­crosse, Rolfs 

8:30 
p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 


9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 
10:00 p.m. SUB Movies: Evolution 
. ­
and Space Balls, DeBartolo 101 and 
I• • 
155*

' 
Fridalj, September 14 
4:00 p.m. VWFI Broadcast Kickoff, Fieldhouse Mall 
4:30 p.m. Kindergarten Flashback, North Quad 
FridaLJ, Sept. 14 
5:00 p.m. Men's Soccer: St. Mary's vs. Akron, Alumni Field 
7:00 
p.m. Men's Soccer: Notre Dame vs. Rhode Island, Alumni 

7:00 
p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop In Badminton, Rolfs 


7:30 p.m. SUB Movies: Evolution and Space Balls, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Lounge, Coleman Morse Center 
9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Deorate a Flower Pot, Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 
10:00 
p.m. Clover Comedy Club: 

Andrew Kennedy, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 

10:00 
p.m. SUB Movies: Evolution and Space Balls, De Bartolo 101 and 155* 

10:00 
p.m. -1 :00 a.m. Semi-Formal Dance at Haggar Hall (SMC) 


11:00 p.m. Tournament Fridays, 9 Ball tournament, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 
SaturdaLJ, Sept. 15 
7:30 
p.m. SUB Movies: Evolution and Space Balls, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

7:30 
p.m. Second City National Comedy Troupe, Washington Hall* 


8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 
10:00 
p.m. -1:00 a.m Open Karaoke in the Huddle, LaFortune Student Center 

10:00 
p.m. SUB Movies: Evolution and Space Balls, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 


This ad is published by the Student Activities Office. Programs subject to change without notice. 
* All programs are free to ND students unless marked by an*. 
FOR ~ORE IMFOR~ATION, VISIT: w,,w.nd.edu/#<Wsao/ 

Thursday, September 13, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
RYAN

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY BEMUSED AND BEFUDDLED 
CUNNINGHAM 

OICAV, EVERY80t>YI THE WINNlN. THE LOTI'ERY SYSTEM l>OESN'T WORK FOR EVERYTHING 
VNFORTVNATEI.Y. AS THE UNIVERSITY SOON DlSCOVEREO. 
1.0TTEJI.Y NUMBER IS 13. NOW IF EVEIWONE UN UNI: UP WITH THEIR A.C.T. SCORE ACCOAl>tNil.Y ••• 
-

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
r 
I 
ACROSS 32 Part of A.C.C.: 64 Souvenirs with Abbr. scents
1 Bank security 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON make your debut. 0000 devices 35 Singer-Lennon 65 From here THIS DAY: Jane Curtin, Mark VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
5 Go postal 66 Men's store 
Chesnutt, Swoosie Kurtz, Rosie You'll want to spend some time
36 Begin 

Perez, Jeff Foxworthy, Michael alone. Stress and worry will cause
9 Betray, in a way section
37 Latched Wmslow, Foxy Brown fatigue. It's time to kiclc off those 
14 Grp. with crude 67 Pari-mutuel 
Happy Birthday: It's time to shoes and relax. Don't let anyone 
39 Unbolt, poetically 

interests? 68 Like some start relying on others to help you make you feel guilty. 000 15 Zip 41 & 42 Somewhat kitchens reach your goals. Self-sufficiency LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 16 Daughter of 45 Union joiner of 69 Epilogs is fine, but outside input can Disharmony will be upsetting. 
often lead to slightly different Don't let someone you live with
Juan Carlos I 1896 70 Black as night > 
results. You have the drive, but be ruin your plans. VISit friends; you
17 Yukon, e.g.: 48 Bad thing to 
prepared for obstacles. Your need someone to talk to. Don't let 
Abbr. break DOWN numbers:6,13,22,25,39,46 your mate put the onus on you; it 18 _ epic scale 49 1930's-40's 1 Terra_ ARIES (March 21-April 19): takes two to tango. 00 19 Symbol of tyrant. spelled Don't become involved in other SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
2Take_ 

people's secret affairs. Problems Deception and underhandedness
neutrality out in detail? 
(glance) with in-laws or relatives will at work are likely. Stay alert for 
20 Chapeau 
52 European 3 Cousin of danke cause friction with your mate. disconcerting news. Those you
holder, spelled 
skyline sight 4 Save's partner h'l'r-+---,t-+-f-+--You will have to be extremely least expect may be behind the out in detail? 
53 Certain electron open about your feelings. 000 rumors spreading like wildfire.
5 Carnival treat 
23 With hands on TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 000
tube

hips 6 Half of Mork's Your moneymaking ideas will be SAGITfARIUS (Nov; 22-Dec. 21):57 Illusions, spelled sign-off lucrative. Talk to relatives and You're full of energy, so you'd
24 Egypt and Syria, 
once: Abbr. out in detail? 7 Man who was friends about your intentions. better find something to do. Out­Travel will be beneficial but cost­door activities will be favored. If
620ily never born25 Targets of some 

ly. Protect ideas legally before you can spend a little time in the 
beatings. spelled 63 Honey, in Le 8 Amount to fry presenting them. 0000 country, you'll be ready to con­out in detail? Havre 9 One may use GEMINI (May 21-June 20): quer the world. 00000 hand signals Involvement in joint ventures or CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): financial or contractual matters Don't let someone you live with
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Judd's role on 
will end in disaster. Read the fine ruin your day or twist things
"Taxi" 

print and check into the back­around. Be honest. You can only
Puzzle by Bruce F. Adam,

E D 11 Thing to have a 
ground of those urging you to do so much, and after that, you'll p E stake in 33 By way of, briefly 56 Southend-on-60 Declaration of invest. 00 have to see what happens. 00 E s 12Grimm 34 Dilly Sea site participation CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): ~~.....,.,.. beginning Travel for business or pleasure Look into a way to implement
38 Pro 57 Typhus carrier 
will be to your advantage. Get some of your innovative ideas.
.-.-......... 13 Scottish 

40 Numerical suffix 58 Isn't informal? involved in mentally stimulating Talk to those who may be inter­
43 Let up events. Your talents will surface, ested in backing your plans or ~--+..+,;.-f 21 Diamond stats 44 Successful pitch 59 Year in and hobbies can be taken to high­becoming a partner. 0000 22 Cub scouts Diocletian's er levels. 00000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
461ngenuous 

reign 62 Cow or sow LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Orga­Moneymaking inventions will be
26 Universal ideal 
47 Bickerer in the nize your day well. An ability to good, but untrustworthy
27 Suggestions 
"Iliad" delegate jobs will help you com­acquaintances may be quick to 28 Bank alternative Answers to any three clues in this puzzle plete everything on time. Here is steal your ideas if you are too
50 Most recent 29 Plane or news are available by touch-tone phone: your chance to shine. You belong open about them. Mum's the 1-900-420·5656 (95¢ per minute). in the limelight, sobe prepared to word.000
square, e.g. 51 Marketplace 30 Mystique 54 Cineplex _ Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Birthday Baby: You're highly energized and will be into everything 
M E A N ..,..;...~---I D 31 Slow-cook (theater chain) best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
and eager to conquer your world. You are motivated, challenging and A R N O A K R G S 32 Starting 55 Mars or Mercury years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. programmed to be successful, outgoing and in the spotlight. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
©2001 Universal Press Syndicate
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
----------------------~-----------------------------------~--------------­
THE OBSERVER 
r·ublished Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name _____________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
FOXTROT  
THE ANSWER To QUESTION 34 1S TIR."2.  THE ANSWER To GIUEST10N 35 IS ",soSCELES."  HEE HEE. THANKS. I  THE ANSWER To QUESTION 3/o IS liM ( ,c~1.) >< . OO (')(-2r  THERE 15 No QUESTION )fo. I  

BILL AMEND 
IT WOULD MOM, Do YOU HAVE
HA\IE HELPED 

AN ERASER?
To HA\IE 

'-­
KNOWN THAT. ISN'T THEllE ONE 
" 0 ON YoUR \ 

PEN(;IL?-. 
~ 

By some miracle of God, Harry's voice is taken from him at the precise right moment. 
National Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. NCAA Football, p. 26 
. PGA, p. 18 
. 
Jets, p. 22 . MLB, p. 18 

. 
NASCAR, p. 20 . Smith, p. 17 

. 
NCAA Gymnastics, p. 19 . Redskins, p. 16


PORTS 
-
Thursday, September 13, 2001 
FOOTBALL 

Tragedy leaves field e01pty 
. Irish-Boilermaker contest cancelled following attacks on New York, D.C. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Ediror 
In light of Tuesday's terrorist attacks, Notre Dame and Purdue have cancelled Saturday's scheduled football game, administrators from both schools announced yesterday. 
The game is rescheduled for Dec. 1. 
The decision to cancel Saturday's game resulted from a recommended moratorium on all Big East confer­ence sports which Notre Dame chose to honor despite the independent status of the football program, Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White said. 
"We believe the horrific develop­ments Tuesday warrant a national period of bereavement and a mora­torium as far as athletics are con­cerned," he said. "Consistent with the Big East decision not to compete in any sports, we have postponed all athletic events through the week­end." 
White was in regular contact with 

., Purdue athletic director Morgan Burke Wednesday, and said the two reached a mutual decision. "l think what's transpired here is the right thing," White said. "I think the whole country is in a pretty sig­nificant period ... and that's not lost on the students. I think it's a good time to pull the plug and shut it down." Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie was not involved in the decision-
making process and was not informed of the cancellation until the end of yesterday's practice, just min­utes before the decision was publicly announced at a Purdue press confer­ence. 
"I think this is the right decision," he said. "I was hoping this decision would be made." 
When Davie went out to the prac­tice field in mid-afternoon, he said he believed the game would still be played. Players and coaches both said they felt a sense of urgency to make the necessary preparations for Saturday's game, especially since the Irish did not practice Tuesday and the Boilermakers did. 
"I sensed a different atmosphere with our players at practice," he said. "There were an awful lot of dis­tractions. I didn't have a really good feeling at all, with the emotional state of our football team and or the emotional state of our coaches head­ing into this contest." 
"This is hard -maybe more for some than others to focus mentally," safety Ron Israel said. "It's hard enough after a loss like the one against Nebraska, and this whole disaster. To come out to practice and try to get ready for a game, the whole atmosphere is different." 
Notre Dame players supported the cancellation. 
"As players and coaches, we would have definitely loved to play, but during a time of such tragedy and hurt, the game was so small," co­captain Grant Irons said. "This is so much bigger than any football, any sport and any athletic event. I applaud this decision. This is a good move, especially in respect to all the families who are affected by this." 
see IRISH/page 23 

Attacks postpone athletic events 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
Following a Big East Conference announcement to postpone all league competi­tion through Sunday, five Notre Dame teams have either cancelled or postponed events scheduled for this weekend. 
Big East conference com­missioner Michael Tranghese suspended all Big East com­petition after consulting with the league's athletic directors and Executive Committee. 

"The overwhelming feeling throughout our institutions is that we must move on with our lives and terrorist actions will not stop us from doing that," See Also Tranghese 
"Blast Cancels 
said. "But the 
Competition"
suspension of league com­page 24 p et it ion through the weekend allows us an appro­priate period of reflection and mourning." 
see CANCELLED/page 19 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles to play today 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associare Spores Editor 

Life goes on. And it will be going on today at Saint Mary's. 
At 4 p.m. this afternoon the Belles will take a step beyond tragedy and take on the Flying Dutch of Hope College in the first athletic match-up at either Saint Mary's or Notre Dame since the terrorist attacks 
Tuesday morning. · 

The original match-up between the two teams that was scheduled for Tuesday after­noon at 4 p.m. was cancelled following the attacks on New York and Washington D.C. and tentatively 
resched­uled for Wedne­s d a y . However, an MIAA decision to cancel all athletic 

competition Johnston 
o n Wednesday postponed the match again. 
After serious consideration by both colleges' athletic depart­ments, the decision to allow the two teams to play the match was made on Wednesday after­noon. 
"Hope's athletic director and I 
thought that maybe its a good idea to have [the teams] com­pete," said Saint Mary's athletic director Lynn Kachmarik. 
The decision to play was made after discussing the issue with both coaches and taking into consideration the effect playing would have on the .stu­dent athletes. No athletes on the Saint Mary's team have lost rel­atives or been immediately 
see SOCCER/page 24 
OBSERVER
. SMC Soccer vs. Hope, today 4 p.m.
SP RYS 

online classifieds 
. SMC Cross Country at North Park, Saturday, 10 a.m. 
AT AGLANCE http://www.nd.edu/~observer 
.c.. 







