Monday

National Championship Edition 
APRIL 2, 2001 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV N0.114 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

All Sport Photo 


GAME WRAP PG. 20 I HOMECOMING PG. 3 FAN REACTIONS PG. 7 PHOTO ESSAY PG. 11 
Monday, April 2, 200 I 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Simply the best 
SAINT LOUIS 
At Notre Dame. we expect the best. And our 
women's basketball team gave us exactly that. 
The mistake is to think that we became the 
best last night when Ruth Riley hit the two 
freethrows that earned Notre Dame the national 
championship. 
But this team was some­
thing special when they 
stepped on the floor for the 
first exhibition game in the 
Joyce Center. For those 
games, as well as many reg­
ular season games, there 
was no question of who 
would win. The only uncer­
tainty was whether Notre 
Dame would win by 20, 30 
or 40 points. 
Yet the Irish put on a great 
show each time they took Senior Staff 
the court, Writer 
They displayed their tal­ent. grace and athleticism for anyone who would show up to watch. The end of the games weren't a disappointing blowout. but they were an opportunity to see all 12 of the Notre Dame players on the court. The loudest voices at the end of the game: starters Riley, Kelley Siemon. Neile Ivey. Erika Haney and Alicia Ratay, cheering from the bench. Karen Swanson hitting a three was enough to bring the whole arena to cheer with the same enthusiasm as for a game-winning shot. 
The team was the best in December when 
Purdue came to the Joyce Center. In a fortunate 
move, students who attended received "Beat 
Purdue" shirts. 
Though few would have guessed it at the time, fans watched a preview of the national champi­onship game. 
The Irish were the best when UConn arrived in South Bend. 
And finally, the fans were the best also, at the first women's basketball sellout. For the first time, students were turned away from the Joyce Center. Those who made it inside saw Notre Dame reach a new level. one where they became a true rival of UConn. The Uconn team that many predicted "their bench could beat Notre Dame" watched in disbelief as the Irish sent them back to Connecticut with a crushing loss. 
As March Madness reached frenzied levels some refused to realize that Notre Dame was the best. In a CNNSI article naming the top 16 rea­sons to watch the Sweet Sixteen ignored the Irish. Tennessee and Connecticut were praised. Purdue's Katie Douglas was lauded. Southwest Missouri State's Jackie Stiles even got the first four reasons all to herself. Hairstyles were even mentioned as an important reason to tune in to the Sweet Sixteen. 
Yet not one word about the Irish. 
The teams with a history of national champi­onships as well as the team with the all-tim:e leading scorer were eliminated. The Irish were there at the end to cut down the nets when it mattered. 
Women's basketball has yet to incite the frenzy that Notre Dame's men's sports do. But excel­lence in women's basketball is well on it's way to becoming a Notre Dame tradition. The fans who have been there throughout the season. for a few games. or even just when everything was on the line -they've seen the best. 
Light up the #1 on Grace Hall. 
Our team earned it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Colleen McCarthy C. Spencer Beggs Nicole Haddad Graphics Geoff Brodie Katie McKenna Sports Lab Tech 
Brian Kessler 
Amanda Hughes 
Viewpoint 
Pac McElwce 
Th~ Obm~, (USPS 5?9 2-4000) is publi,h~ Monday through Ftid.iy except during exam and vocotion period,. The Observer is• m•mber of the Associated Pr~ss. A11 r·cproducciort riglit.s· aic rcscrYc:a. ~ • .. • ­

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. Lecture: "Hwnan Rights  . Performance: Pacifica  . Conference: Opening  . Seminar: "Ethics,  
Organizations and Ideology:  Quartet. resident ensem­ address, "About the  Psychoanalysis and Other  
A Gramscian Analysis,"  ble, University of  Greatness of the Great  Talking Cures," Jonathan  
Neve Gordon. Department of  Chicago, Music Institute  Books," Aa Brann, Saint  Lear, University of Chicago,  
Politics and Government,  of Chicago. Little  John's College. Annapolis,  followed by commentary by  
Ben Gurion University.  Theatre, Moreau Center,  Auditorium. McKenna Hall,  Alasdair MacIntyre, Room  
Israel, Room C-103,  Saint Mary's College,  Program of Liberal Studies  124, Center for Social  
Hesbw-gh Center, 12:30 p.m.  7:30 p.m.  50th Anniversary, 5 p.m.  Concerns, 4:30 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Virginia Tech drops charges against professor 
BLACKSBURG, Va. the department heads to review the 
Virginia Tech President Charles facts, meet with their faculty members Steger has requested the university's 
and begin a dialogue that will come to legal counsel drop charges against an understanding of the cause of the Paulo Polanah and ordered university event and prevent such incidents in officials to investigate the Tuesday the future." arrest. Steger, in his statement, also apolo­
Polanah, black studies instructor, gized to all students involved in the was arrested by Tech police and incident. charged with disorderly conduct at "On behalf of the university commu­about 6 p.m. Tuesday in Pamplin Hall. nity, we apologize to the students in Police were called to solve a dispute the two classes who were inconve­over a room with Larry Killough. a nienced and denied -even in a small professor of accounting and informa­way -the educational opportunities tion systems. according to police ciate vice president for university rela­they deserve as Virginia Tech stu­reports. tions. dents," he said. 
Killough had reserved the room to "I am asking that the disorderly con­Polanah. who was released the same proctor a test. but Polanah's Black duct charge against the instructor be night as the arrest, said he was happy Aesthetics class had been using the dropped," Steger said in a statement the misdemeanor charge was dropped class without formal reservation for read to students involved in the dis­but was angered at what the students eight weeks, said Larry Hincker. asso-pute Thursday. "I am also directing from both classes were put through. 
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 
Search continues for missing student 
PITTSBURGH 
Close to 20 days after University of Pittsburgh freshman Justin Hayduk was last seen in Morgantown. W.Va., his father has decided to expand the search for his son to a wider area. "The Morgantown police have exhausted all their leads," Michael Hayduk said. "They have no place to go." Justin Hayduk was in Morgantown during Pitt's Spring Break. On March 10. he and a friend who had been drinking ran into a West Virginia University police officer. His friend was caught by officers, but Justin ran away. That was the last time he was seen. Morgantown police found what is believed to be Hayduk's hat by the Monongahela River, and dogs have picked up a scent there too, but after six days of searching the waters. police decided to move on. Cpl. Phil Scott of the Morgantown Police Department decided to halt search efforts on March 19 but spent most of last week interviewing people who might have information about the case. 
WESTERN KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY 

Rape victims won't press charges 
BOWLING GREEN, Ky. 
Since last January, there have been five rapes report­ed on Western Kentucky University's campus and none of the women who filed those reports have decided to prosecute. According to experts, there are many rea­sons why women, college-age women in particular, decide not to prosecute their rapist, said Misty Johnson, outreach coordinator for Hope Harbor, a rape crisis center in Bowling Green. Media coverage and shame are at the top of the list. she said, adding that difficulty in prosecution can also be a deterrent. "A majority of prosecuted rapists never spend a day in jail," Johnson said. Travis Manley, commander of communications and information services for University of Kentucky's campus police. said that in the last year UK has only had two rapes reported on campus from their 35,000 students. Manley also said that it is not uncommon for the rape victims to prosecute. "The reason one of the victims prosecuted was because she didn't have a choice," Manley said. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 

The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Monday, April 2. AccuWeather@forecast for daytime conditions and high temperalUreS 
FRONTS: 


...,..,.. .&.A. ......,,. 

C 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. GOLD WARM STATIONARY Pressute: 
@©D . DDEJEJ 
High Low Shower, R•ln l~atorrr. Flurr1•• Snow le• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy "'1a Ml!i'10cll41d Pfrn• 
AUanta 66 43 Las Vegas 77 55 Portland 47 39 Baltimore 51 36 Memphis 71 58 Sacramento 60 42 Boston 40 33 Milwaukee 49 34 St Louis 62 52
,:;;A~.~q 6-fo Q ~ ~ 6 
Chicago 53 37 Naw York 46 36 Tampa 76 57 Showers T•stom,s Rain Flurries Snow /CB Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Houston BO 70 Philadelphia 52 35 Washington DC 54 40 
Monday, April 2, 2001 The Observer. NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP EDITION page 3 
Thousands welcome Irish back to campus 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associare Spons Ediror 
Niele Ivey climbed ofT the bus, onto a platform and held the NCAA Championship trophy high in the air. 
Everyone exploded into cheers. 
"This moment passes anything I've ever experienced in my entire life," said head coach Mu!Tct McGraw. 
More than 2,500 students and supports lined Notre Dame Avenue to welcome the women's basketball team back to campus. 
"You've been supportive all year." McGraw said as the crowd chanted, "We're No. 1! We're No. 1!" Pointing to the trophy, she shouted, "We brought it home!" 
Due to a flight problem, the team bus didn't arrive to the Main Circle until 2:30 a.m.. one hour later than estimated. However, despite the cold weath­er, nobody left the rally early. 
"We won the national champi­onship," said Mark Trandel. "They deserve to be supported." 
As the team bus drove up Notre Dame Avenue. led by a police escort, students waved their hands in the air and chant­ed. "Here come the Irish." When the bus finally stopped and the Irish got oil they ran around the crowd giving supporters high­fives on their way to a platform erected by the Notre Dame Security Police. 
"We've got nothing but love for you," said Ruth Riley. 
Riley was clearly a crowd favorite at the gathering. When the band played the 1812 Overture. the students chanted "Ruth. Ruth" over and over. Riley just laughed. 
At least three students held aloft signs asking the star center to to marry them. 
"[Riley's] pretty hot, and she will make a lot of money next year," said Jeff Raedy, who was carrying around a sign that read "Ruth. will you marry me?" 
Many students realized how special it was to see a national championship team. 
"This has gotta be a once .in a lifetime opportunity," said Nick Setta. "There's no way l would miss it. It's great just to be a part of this." 
For senior Jaime Glasser, it was just great to be able to wit­ness a national championship team while she was a student. 
"It's been the only national championship in our four years," she said. "It was a great game and a great sea-,on." 
Her friend Katie Wood agreed. "They worked hard and they deserved it," she said. 
The atmosphere at Notre Dame was much different than Purdue. where riot police had to use tear gas on out-of-control students. In South Bend, the only disturbance reporterd was a couch being burned on North Quad. 
Instead, the festive. joyous atmosphere around the main cir­cle was a fitting homecoming for the Irish. 
"To see all these people out here. it's phenominal," said Pete Monenaro. 
"I've been coming to women's basketball games since l was in third grade'' said Christa Gray. "There's more people here now than there were at some of those home games. This is awesome." 
Local television crews walked around the crowd getting footage. Everytime a camera­man shined a light on a particu­lar section of the crowd, students went crazy. Throughout the evening, many supporters did 68 pushups -one for every point the Irish scored in their victory over Purdue. 
The players clearly had a good time in front of the students, although as Ericka Haney joked, "We don't know what to do, so do you have any questions?" 
Ivey crowdsurfed for about 30 seconds, and Riley asked the Notre Dame band if they would play the Irish Jig. 
And as they do before every game, the Irish huddled together and did the Irish Jig for one last time. 
ft was the perfect ending to a perfect season. 


Senior Niele Ivey (above) smiles with the national championship trophy -the first for Notre Dame in basketball and the first in any sport since 1995. All-American Ruth Riley addresses the crowd after the Irish returned to campus at 2:30 a.m. Riley was clearly the crowd favorite as several males professed their love for her and the crowd honored her with a "Ruth" chant 
when the band played the 1812 Overture. 
photos by: 

MIKE CONNOLLY 

Do you still want to be doing thJs a year from now? 
~ 
Ji ~ 
~ 
f;




EMPLO!ers are staNd•Ns I,~.. 
Don't miss the Working section: 

Pages of great jobs. legions of top companies. Because college is almost over, 

chicagotribune.com 
Univor~ity Of Notro Damo Global Hoalth lnitiativo Blood Orivo 
Dates, Monda.9, April 2, 2001 , Tuesday, April}, 2001 
-nme: I 0:00 am -+:}O pm 

Location: LaFortune Student CenterE>allroom 
Appointments c;3n be made b9 e-mailing Garrett 
Zoeller at zoellc.-. 1 @nd.edu. 
Appointments are scheduled every 1, minutes and 
it takes about one hour fur the entire process. 


South Bend Medical Foundation, Inc. 
.,

Central Blood Bank 
page4 The Observer . NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP EDITION Monday, April 2, 2001 
Couch burns, but ND students celebrate title quietly 
By I.AURA ROMPF 
Asrociate News Editor 
Besides Billy Joel's "We Didn't Start the Fire" blasting out a third floor Keenan win­dow, North Quad was silent Sunday night after the women's basketball team won the National Championship. There were no riots, but approximately 20 students set one couch on fire and a six• man in Keenan thought they'd celebrate. 
Tom Perez and Mike Christel played Joel's hit song out their window to celebrate, but affirmed they didn't light the fire. 

"Of course [we're playing the song] in good humor," Christel said. "It's awesome we just won the National Championship. We watched this game and the last one (the semifinal win against Connecticut.) We're excited." 
Notre Dame fire department captain Tim Hoeppner said once the department arrived on the scene the crowd of 20 students dispersed and the lire was quickly extinguished. 
Although fans at Michigan State rioted after the Spartans 2000 men's championship, 
Notre Dame security expected returned from St. Louis. no problems out of students "It will be a long night," Sunday night. Rakow said. "But it will be 
"We certainly have more worth it in the end." people out Around tonight. but we 150 yards didn't expect "We certainly have more away from 
any riots," said people out tonight, but the burnt 
Rex Rakow, coach, nine
we didn't expect any 
director of screaming security and riots." girls stood police. "We o n have better Stonehenge
Rex Rakow
students than donning
director of security and police
that." homemade 
Hakow said T-shirts sup­two shifts of porting their officers were stationed at sectionmatc Erika Haney and Alumni Circle when the team fellow Lewis resident Alicia 
Ratay. They were making noise to support the women's team they reel takes the back seat to football and men's bas­ketball. 
"The girls deserve so much more credit than they get," said Meghan Thomas. 
"The student body is always out there supporting the men's teams, no matter how well they do," added Sarah Raehl. 
Gail Thompson, Haney's roommate, said she was proud of Haney and the entire team. 
"My roommate worked so hard," she said. "It's an injus­tice more students aren't out here to celebrate." 
Purdue students riot, police deploy tear gas on students 
Purdue Exponent Staff Reports 
Purdue students lit fires, 
turned over a car and broke 
windows after Purdue lost to 
Notre Dame Sunday night in 
the women's basketball 
national championship game. 
Students used a flaming Notre Dame shirt to start one fire. In the Northwestern Parking Garage, revelers turned over a Mercedes. They also broke windows in stores and campus buildings. 
Capt. Ron Fosnaugh of the Purdue Police Department said about 2,000 students gathered in the Village, but students also gathered in large numbers throughout campus. Fosnaugh also said police made eight arrests, ranging from disorderly con­duct to bomb making. 
The revelry started at Cary Quadrangle and moved to the 
CORRECTION 
In the March 30 edition of The Observer, a photo of the Women's Center at Saint Mary's was credited to Mary Aimonovitch. 
The credit should have been given to photographer Kristine Kaai. Also, in the same issue, student government chief of staIT Jonathan Jorissen's name was mispelled. 
The Observer regrets the errors. 

west side of campus and tapped against their boots. Slayter Center, then back Fosnaugh said the tear gas through various parts of cam­ran out and had to be p us. Many fires started in restocked throughout the trash bins and on pieces of night. furniture that had been Eric Fobes. a freshman in pulled into the street. the School of Agriculture, 
Police was upset deployed that police tear gas Td like to throw tear gas used tear 
when groups at the cops; the tear gas gas. 
of students ''I'd like
burns your eyes and your 
failed to dis­to throw perse. throat. It really sucks." tear gas at Students the cops; ran through the tear gas
Eric Fobes 
campus, cov­burns your
Purdue student
ering their eyes and eyes and y o u r mouths with throat," he paper tow-said. "It els, shirts, jackets and their really sucks." hands to protect themselves Fosnaugh said that win­from the tear gas. dows of Engineering 
They could be seen cough­Administration Building and ing, spitting, crying and curs­Materials and Electrical ing. They also clapped to the Engineering Building were beat of the batons police broken. Richard Byers, build­ing services/grounds general manager general, said Social Services Annex and the American Hailway Building also had broken windows. The windows of several busi­nesses in the Village were also broken. 
Students attempted to push over a white University van but were unsuccessful. They then moved to a University mail truck and a smaller black university van, but they were again unsuccessful. 
Fosnaugh said there is no dollar amount on the damage yet. 
Fosnaugh said the distur­bances broke up at 1:15 on Monday morning. 
Nathal Dusai. a freshman in the Schools of Engineering, said he joined the crowd because he wanted to partic­ipate. 
'Tm not pissed that we lost; I'm just happy to riot," he said 
Brian Brown, a senior in School of Agriculture. said he expected the disturbance. "I was here last time this hap­pened so l was pretty sure it was going to happen again." 
Students used music to accentuate their mood. At one fraternity house, stu­dents played "Break Stutr' by Limp Bizkit. 
And at Cary Quadrangle, "We Didn't Start the Fire" by Billy Joel entertained the crowd. 
Jim Bartela, a freshman in the School of Technology, said he thought the fact that 
students  gathered  in  the  
streets after the ga me  was  
good.  

"Even though there's 
. destruction of the town, it's a great way to get people together, to help celebrate the basketball team." 

As Low As 


With vehicle loan rates this low, you'll be able to pop the top and hit the road in style! 
~ 

NOTRE DAME 219/239-6611 FEOfllAL CR~DIT UNION www.ndfcu.org You con bank on us 
to be better 1'.E)­
IIUI-IIIK 
LENDER 

•APR is Annual Percentage Rate. As low as 7.9"/oAPR is good for various financing terms on new and used vehicles. Rates arc subject to change ~ without notice. Certain restrictions may apply. No refinances ofNotre Dame Federal Credit Umon loans apply. Independent of the Univenaly. Mlliiitll/
PlllttIPS@ (j!Jl-5!)fj5. 
\Ve want ,,vou... 
on the -ij-~f 
(~111\J.,J.,l~Nf,I~ IJ l(I'l1Nl~SS '1,1~1\tl! Auditions for Step, Iii/lo and Toning _instructors will be h~ld AIH'il 11_.. 
·.~ .i•·~ .t ~i.1::,jr~ _ ~\~?6)·!: r:1~.~~)~~­
,~-•.,: r~ 1t·1--,i,¼.' I;,_,,..,,_:,...:... '{;,:_,~ 
;1, '.'.,:''1.¥. "· .J ,'j'•iJ. 1-~ s, ;~ 'it I-_ J; 1\i~ ". 
IIEUE'S WHA'I1 YOU NEED 'l'O DO: 
I. UE'l'UUN A (~OHPI,E'l'EI) AI,ttl..ICA'l'ION 
'l'O llE(~SPOll'l'S HY APIUI.. O. A.PPS AUE A\TAIJ.,AHI.. E IN 'l'IIE llSUC. 2. SE'I' UP AN IN'l'Ell\TIEW 1\71'1'11 .JENNIE 


ATION 
Monday April 2, 200 l COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SEHVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Vatican Radio protested: Several hundred people demonstrated Sunday outside Vatican Radio, accusing it of polluting the air with electromagnetic waves. At issue is the station's transmitter in the town of Santa Maria di Galeria near Rome. Residents fear leukemia cases in the area may be linked to radio station's electromagnetic emissions. 
Sri Lanka explosion kills 11: A 
bomb exploded during a concert at a crowded stadium in Sri Lanka early Sunday, killing 11 people and prompting a stampede. authorities said. At least 150 were injured. At least 
25.000 spectators were packed in the stadium in Kurunegala. about 60 miles northwest of Colombo, when the bomb exploded, a local police ofiicer said in a telephone interview. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Texas plane crash injures seven: A 
plane loaded with skydivers was caught by a "dust devil" turbulence just after it took off and crashed from a low altitude, injuring seven people but killing no one. Most of the 21 skydivers on the plane with the pilot had already climbed out by the time Danny Timmons reached the scene by running three­quarters of a mile from the private airfield where the plane had taken off. 
Survey shows easy access to guns: 
Nearly half of the nation's high school stu­dents have easy access to guns, and more than one in five high school boys have taken a weapon to school in the last year, according to a survey released Sunday. Forty-seven per­cent of high school students said they could obtain a gun if they wanted to, while 22 per­cent of middle school students said they could get a firearm. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Student shot at school in Gary: A teen-ager accused of fatally shooting a student outside a high school was expelled from the school nearly two years ago for a history of fighting and truancy. Donald Burt, 17, of Gary is scheduled to be formally charged Monday with murder in Friday's shooting death of 16­year-old Neal Boyd. Investigators said Burt walked across the Lew Wallace High School lawn to where students were getting off buses about 8:20 a.m. He allegedly approached Boyd, who had walked to school, exchanged a few words with him, then shot him once. 
]% 
Market Watch March 30 
Dow 
9,878.78 +79.72 
Composite 
Same: 
Volume: 7 236 
NIA 

AMEX: 877.04 +15.59 NASDAQ: 1,840.26 +19.69 NYSE: 595.66 +6.98 S&P 500: 1,160.33 +12.38 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.67 +0.56 15.81 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +0.51 +0.20 39.15 CIENA CORP (CIEN( +1.37 +0.56 41.75 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -0. 95 -0.25 26.31 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -1. 24 -0. 69 54. 69 
CHINA 


Associated Press 

BEIJING 
A U.S. Navy surveillance plane collided with a Chinese fighter jet that intercepted it over the South China Sea on Sunday and made an emergency landing in China, a U.S. mil­itary spokesman said. 
The 24 American crew members were not injured, said Col. John Bratton, a spokesman for the U.S. Pacific Command in Hawaii. The Chinese gov­ernment said the fighter crashed and its pilot was missing. 
The EP-3 was on a rou­
tine surveillance flight in 
international airspace when two Chinese fighters inter­cepted it, Bratton said. The EP-3 is an unarmed four­engine propeller plane equipped to listen in on radio signals and monitor radar sites. 
The collision appeared to be an accident and the Chinese did not force the plane down, Bratton said. 
"The planes actually bumped into each other," said another Pacific Command spokesman, Lt. Col. Dewev Ford. 
The incident comes at a touchy time in the United States' relations with China. The Bush administration · has taken a more wary atti­tude toward Beijing, and China's recent detention of two scholars with links to the United States has fur­ther raised distrust. 
A Chinese academic said encounters with Chinese fighters are frequent as U.S. planes fly along China's coast eavesdropping on mil­itary communications. 
"It's very regular for the_ American Navy to have their planes intruding into Chinese airspace," said Yan Xuetong, an expert in international studies at Tsinghua University in Beijing. "The Chinese then send up fighters and chase them out." 
The U.S. military would not say how close Sunday's flight came to Chinese air­space. 
The Chinese Foreign Ministry said the collision occurred at 9:07 a.m. some 62 miles southeast of Hainan, a large island off the southern Chinese coast. 
Two Chinese fighters were sent up to track the plane as it approached Chinese airspace, said the ministry statement. 
"The U.S. plane abruptly diverted toward the Chinese planes, and its head and left wing collided with one of the Chinese planes, causing the Chinese plane to crash," the state­ment said. 
FRANCE 

Milosevic arrested, awaits trial 
Associa.ted Press  Sunday after a 26-hour armed stand­off with police.  In Banja Luka, administrative center . of the Bosnian Serb republic that  
PARIS  His arrest was welcomed in Bosnia,  makes up half of the country, former  
World leaders welcomed the a.rrest  where Milosevic is largely blamed for  Prime Minister Milorad Dodik,  a  
of former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic on Sunday. but the general rejoicing was tempered by  starting the 1992 war that kept its capital besieged for three years. Bosnian Foreign Minister Zlatko  Milosevic opponent, expressed satis­faction at Miloscvic's arrest, saying his responsibility for a decade of suffering  
concerns about whether the architect  Lagumdzija said the former presi­ in the region "is unquestionable."  
of a  decade of Balkan wars would  dent's deeds had "shocked the region  The sentiment was echoed across  
stand trial for crimes against humani­ty. Milosevic. once described bv the  for a decade'' and urged his extradi­tion to the U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague, Netherlands.  Europe. "We have waited for this day for a long time. Justice must now be done,"  
West as the "Butcher of the Balkans,"  "Anything falling short of that would  French President Jacques Chirac said  
was whisked away to prison early  be a historical mistake," Lagumdzija  Sunday, according to his spokes­ 
said.  woman Catherine Colonna.  

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP EDITION Monday, April 2, 2001 
Nader: Students must take active role in democracy 
By PAT McELWEE 
News Writer 
In a speech delivered to a 
packed house at Indiana 
University-South Bend (IUSB). 
consumer advocate and 2000 
presidential candidate Halph 
Nader called on students to take 
an active role in democracy. 
I le argued that the American 
people as a whole are losing 
power to large corporations due 
to a lack of public organization 
and the power of concentrated 
wealth in today's political 
process. 
But there is hope, said Nader. 
Citizens can turn the tide of 
rising corporate power by indi­
vidual initiative. Through orga­
nized, grass roots efforts, the 
American people can restore 
and maintain a healthy democ­
racy. · They can fix the problem 
of "too much power and wealth 
in too few hands, leading the 
few to dominate the many." 
Attention to one's duiics as a 
citizen only takes a few hours 
every week, said Nader. And "it 
provides a sense of fulfillment 
and satisfaction." 
Unl'ortunatcly, Americans often fall victim to what Nader calls "the rationalization of futil­ity." They give reasons for not devoting energy to their civic duties. These include lack of time, ignorance of how to be an active citizen and fear of retali­ation. 
"These are not proper reasons in the land of the free and home of the brave," said Nader. America is a free country in which citizens have the right to organize and take political steps without fear of oppression. Failing to exercise that right could lead to its permanent loss. "Use it or lose it," Nader said. 
Nader emphasized the need to become involved while still young because time slips by much faster than one expects. "Don't waste time," said Nader. "You'll lose your 20s, lots of young people do." 
Nader suggested three ways students can become active citi­zens for democracy. 
First, he called for the cre­ation of a class on civic skills and democracy for university students. This class would teach students how to use the Freedom of Information Act, ini­tiate referendums and lobby their government, among other things. 
Second, he suggested students here form a chapter of the Indiana Public Interest Research Group, a group based 

in Indiana University-
Bloomington. 

"There are 20 states that have 
student public interest research 
groups. Some of them arc the 
most powerful citizen groups in 
the state, like in New York and 
Massachusetts," said Nader. 

A third suggestion made by 
the former presidential candi­
date was the formation of 
"Campus Greens," student 
organizations supporting the 
Green party in local, state and 
federal elections. 

These suggestions have 
already led to some local action. 
After the speech, fliers were 
handed out enjoining students 
to meet together today from 4 
until 5:30 p.m. in Northside Hall 
at IUSB to organize ways to 
make a difference in the com­
munity. 

Also, directly following the 
speech. student groups at IUSB 
met with students from Notre 
Dame, including members of 
the Progressive Student Alliance 
(PSA), to discuss activism on 
both campuses. 

Tony Kingsolver, a student at 
IUSB, looked forward to partic­
ipating in the meetings follow­
ing Nader's speech. 

"I think it's going to be very positive," Kingsolver said. Nader's talk provided the right context for such a meeting, Kingsolver said. "I don't think many people know what Nader's all about until they come hear him." 
Aaron Kreider, president of the PSA at Notre Dame, said, "Most people in our group would agree with Halph Nader. They love the guy." 
Other students in attendance found Nader to be a motivating speaker. 
"He gets people off the couch­es," said John Jalkanen, a stu­dent at Indiana University­Bloomington. "He helps me realize I do need to stop talking so much and actually start doing something." 
On an issue of some interest to Catholic social justice, Nader voiced support for a living wage during a press conference just before his speech. He expressed concern that the current mini­mum wage is $2.05 less in real purchasing power than the min­imum wage in 1968, while per capita productive output has doubled since 1968. 
"That's a pretty sad commen­tary on the nature of progress in a country with overall eco­nomic growth," he said. 
Of all the solutions he's seen, Nader has found successful attempts by some cities to 



require that "any company that 
does business within the city 
has to pay [workers] a living 
wage." 

He touched on many other issues during his 2-hour speech, including alternative energy sources, ex(;essive defense spending, child poverty, univer­sal health care and trade unions. 
In many cases, Nader por­trayed these issues as a battle between corporate interests and the interests of the people. for example, he suggested that solar energy possibilities have not been explored because no powerful group can profit from controlling the sun the way some corporations control fossil fuels. "Not even Exxon can eclipse the sun," he said. 
Elected officials should be fighting for the people against concentrated corporate wealth and power on these issues, Nader said. 
He criticized both the Democrats and the Republicans for failing to truly represent tho people. In his characteristically irreverent and humorous style, he even went so far as to call President Bush "a gigantic cor­poration running for president disguised as a human being" and Gore a "sooth-saying ser­pent." 
The Democrats and the Hepublicans are both controlled by corporate interests, accord­ing to Nader. As a result they are "morphing into one anoth­
er." 

The parties combined forces with each other and their cor­porate sponsors, through the Commission on Presidential Debates, to keep third-party candidates Nader and Buchanan out of the debates and the corresponding publicity, he said. 
As far as prospects for the 



lal Pro i 



When: Wednesday, April 4 Where: CSC Time: 5:30 pm 

.~rr1t;,. 

i!<v Please RSVP by Monday, April 2 @ 1-6841 
·i 

Sponsored by Multicultural Student Programs & Services 

2004 presidential election, "We're having fundraisers at Nader said it is too early to which all PAC's [political action know if he will run. But he has committees]. corporations and been involved in building up the soft money arc excluded," said Green party in anticipation of Nader. "So we're just individu­the 2002 local, state and als contributing a few bucks to Congressional elections. make this a grass roots party." 
Topic of Discussion: 
Monday, April 2, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP EDITION page 7 
Supporters, students revel in Irish win 

a fraction of the Notre Dame stu­dent body and an even smaller Notre Dame section, so we snuck proportion or the 22,500 in down to the Notre Dame section More than 2,500 students attendance at the NCAA and lo and behold, we started 
and local supporters filled 
women's basketball Final Four, winning, and we won by 15 the Notre Dame students who points." Main Circle early Monday made the 360 mile trek to St. Lewis Hall resident assistant 
morning to welcome the 
Louis were impossible to ignore. Mari Pyle traveled to Missouri 
Irish back to campus.
Eighty minutes on the floor of St. Sunday without tickets and not Louis's Savvis Center stood knowing if she'd be able to get Despite the cold, many fans between the Notre Dame women them, but felt that just being in 
painted their chest to show
and the 2001 National town to cheer for the Irish was Championship, and for 80 min­important enough. their support (above). Ericka utes the ticketholders of Section "We came down this morning 
Haney (right) received a
106 stood with them. and we were just excited to sup­"I didn't know they tried to get port the team. We have two warm welcome from her us to sit down, but there is no [players] in our dorm, Ericka 
sectionmates in Lewis Hall 
way that Notre Dame students [Haney] and Alicia [Ratay], and 
when she arrived. 

would ever sit down during an we just wanted to support our athletic event, so I was just team," she said. "We were just expecting that we were going to going to be here for the spirit 
photos by:

stand. It wasn't even something and the team and then go out that crossed our mind," said afterwards and celebrate." MIKE CONNOLLY sophomore Kristen Nonbello of That type of support was Friday's game against unwavering, even when the Connecticut. team was down by 17 points at ued to increase over the past 
Even ii' it had crossed their the end of the first half against several years. minds, it's unlikely that these Connecticut. "In the last six years, it's gone 
students would have been able "I came to the game not as the from probably 900 to 1,000 to to contain their enthusiasm mascot but as a superfan of the 5,000, and it keeps going up enough to stay in their seats. Fighting Irish women's basket­every time," she said. "It's won­After all, student Chris Wright -ball team," said Michael Brown, derful." 
who has attended "every game the 2000-01 Varsity Leprechaun. Kale attributes the growing {he] possibly could have" this "People doubted them, but guess number of fans in part to year -couldn't even go to sleep what, I called home at halftime. I recruitment of new fans by cur­after the team's Elite Eight victo­told my family, 'Don't worry. rent ones. 
We're down by so many points. "That's how we've built ary over Vanderbilt in Denver. 
Instead, Wright found himself We're gonna come back.' And base. We've all gone out and told venturing to the Joyce Center in guess what. They did. Let's go people, 'You know. you've got to anticipation of purchasing Final Irish!" come to games' Look how we've 
Four tickets. Smith believes that it is in part grown. 1 miss the camaraderie 
could be a lot better. I think this year's NCAA tournament
the confidence of the fans that of the smaller groups and find­
"As soon as we beat 
they're missing a bit." success will win respect forVanderbilt we bundled up -I helped the team to pull off its ing a seat real easily, but now Wright agreed that his fellow women's basketball and drawthink I was wearing about five record-breaking comeback. we have season tickets and students need to be at the Joyce more fans to the Joyce Center"I think that our attitude car­we've come a long way. It'slayers of clothing -and we took Center for all the games, not just for women's games. 
ries onto the team, and there­

off to the JACC and when we got great." 
those that have been nationally "I don't think there's enoughfore, that's why they won," he But attendance and student
there, they told us that we 
advertised. students who come out and par­said. enthusiasm still isn't at the level weren't allowed to line up until 6 "We show up for the big ticipate. They really don't," said
that many of these die-hard fans
a.m.," he said. "We stood there games, but for the games -a lot Smallwood. "And I hope this willPacking the House would like to sec.
even though they told us not to of the Big East games especially change their minds and more ofBut despite the turnout for this "The students are not corningbut after an hour we noticed -we need to show a little bit them will come out."
year's tournament, women's out, and that disgusts me
that nobody else was going to more support," he said. Pyle agreed that this year'sbasketball hasn't always enjoyed because you get all these peoplewme until 6 a.m. the next morn­Many fans attribute the lack of championship contest perfor­this kind of support from stu­from South Bend, La Porte,
ing, so we took off. We woke up support to a lack of respect for mance should cause an
dents or from the South Bend Rochester, all around coming to
at 4 a.m. and decided to head women's teams, despite the increased enthusiasm for the
community. see the game and the student
out at 4 a.m." more than 25 years that have team on campus.
"We used to be able to have section is empty. That's not
Student Stephen Smith, who passed since the implementation "I think because of us getting
socials with 100 people, and now right," said Christine Frazier,
bought his tickets after arriving of measures designed to equal­to the Final Four, there 'II be
we don't even have room," said who has attended women's bas­
in St. Louis, decided that the sec­ize women's sports with men's. more and more student support. 
Kaye Kale, a South Bend resi­ketball games since 1984 and
tion where those who purchased "We do have Title [IX] equality I think there was when the JACC
dent who has been following the who traveled to Cincinnati for
tickets in the student sale were now and women are just as sold out for the UConn game.
team since 1991. "Now we can't the 1997 Final Four. 
sitting was the only place to be. important as men," said Kale. There was great spirit and we
even do the tables. We have to Kale said that student support
"We didn't have any tickets. Frazier noted that she preferred just need to continue it over the
just set up chairs. We've had, for seems to be very good for the
We came right after class at 12 women's basketball to men's year," she said. "I think our
the first. time, two full houses. most important games, but that
o'clock. We finally scalped a and that better coaching at the dorm did a great job. We had a
People have realized that attendance at lesser-publicized
ticket," said Smith. "We got tick­high school level has increased big sign in our lobby for Ericka
women's basketball is fun." games is sparse. 
ets all the way up in like, ihe women's skills to be similar to and Alicia and we're just really
Phyllis Smallwood, who "It was really good for
14,000th row in the middle of those of men. proud of them." 
became a Notre Dame women's Connecticut, and it was reallythe UConn section. We were 
basketball fan six years ago, good for the first two NCAA
down by 17, so I told my friend Looking Ahead Erin Piroutek contributed to
noted that support has contin-[games]." she said. "I think it
_that we had to move down to the But the fans are hopeful that this report. 



VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 8 BSERVER Monday, April 2, 2001 
SCOTT ADAMS 
DILBERT 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
WHY AREN'T 
I'D NEVER BE
YOU 5IGNED UP 


"Every reform granted by capitalism is a
ABLE TO RUN
FOR THE 401K? 

concealed measure ofreaction."
THAT fAR. 
Daniel Deleon
E 
8 
writer 
-r 
~ 
'ti 

i;;;;;-===LL__~i._-._~Jiiii.----~~a..i..~;._
_________ _ 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 021 So,ah Dining Hall. Noue Dam<, !N 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIF.F Mike Connolly 
.MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
A'iST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Kerry Smith  

N1,.'WS EDITOR: Jason McFarley V1EWl'OINT EDITOR, Par McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadrer ScENlo EDITOR, Amaud.i Greco SAINT MAll\"S EurroR, Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR.: l'etcr RicharJson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD 01,.SICN MANAcu, Chris Avila SYSTF.MS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Ad..m Turner CONTROLUR: Kevin Ryan GRAI'HICS EDITOR, Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGERIGENf.llAL INFO..............63 I-7471 FAX......................................... ....................631-6927 ADVERTISING .... ...............................63 l-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIA.ssr. Mf. .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. )@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observcr.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR¥'s.............................................63l-4324 observer .smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0 ........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMJNISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobserwr.nd.edu for daily updates ofcamp115 news, sports, features and opinion columns, as wdl as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-rhe 
movies/m115ic for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
onlinc features for spe­
and rates ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archive., to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published afcer 
co meet rhe editors and 
Aug1151 1999 
sraff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofche University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reporred as accuracely and objccrively as possibl.,. Unsigned edirorials represent che opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edicor and deparrment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necc,ssarily chose ofTh., Observer. 
YiL-wpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expre,..ion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lcttm to the Ediror muse be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~sti,m.s rrgardi11g Obsm,er polid~ ihould be dini:t­,dto Editor in Cl,iefM,J,,. Connolly. 

Global poverty indicates class war, involving us 
The largest form of collective vio­
lence in our world is not war or 
crime. Imagine a violence that takes 
20 to 40 years out of the lives of over 
a billion people. 

Imagine the vio­
lence of being 

forced to work 10 Aaron Kreider 
hours a day, every 
day, for wages 
Think,
that are inade­
Question.

quate to feed your 
Resist
family or provide 
decent housing. 

Imagine the violence of not being able to attend grade school or high school. 
Imagine your brothers and sisters dying from easily curable diseases. Try changing things and you might never be seen again. 
Imagine being poor. 
Out of our world's population of over six billion, there are several hun­dred million people who will never need to face this violence. If they work long hours, it is for wages one hun­dred times larger than those of the world's poor are. 
They can expect to live 80 years and enjoy a luxurious retirement. If they are worried about education, it is whether they will get into a presti­gious private university. If sick, they are assured of being treated at public or private expense. 
Their place in the world is secure from the threats of the poor due to their hegemonic military and econom­ic power. While in the United States they may only feel like middle or upper-middle class, they belong to the global rich. 
There are several billion people in our world who are very poor and sev­eral hundred million who are very rich. The rich own or benefit from multinational corporations that are extracting primary resources (fruit, coffee, metals or oil) from the Third World at fire-sale prices and exploit­ing its unskilled labor in sweatshops. While the prices of primary resources trail behind inflation, the rich sell Third World manufacturing goods at greatly increasing prices. 
The Third World is stuck in a posi­tion of under-development, told to focus its energies on industries that are not growing while the rich nations specialize in the most profitable and technologically advanced sectors of production. 
I have a confession to make: I am one of the rich. I am living off the sweat, sickness and ultimately the blood of the poor. My parents put me through a private college and now as a graduate student my free tuition plus stipend scholarship is the product of Notre Dame's vast wealth being used to attract graduate students to a forsaken corner in Northern Indiana. 
Our school's wealth would not exist if capitalism had not concentrated money in the hands of a few, who then donated it by the millions in exchange for getting buildings in their name. 
But this confession is not for me alone to make. For you too are mem­
bers of the global rich. Not by .------... nomic pressure and covert or anything you did of merit, only ovcrl support for conscrva­by the fate that you were h#d /µ tive parties is usually suf'li­born to rich parents instead ,-r~ cicnt. of to poor. " Like most wars, there 
So together we are are casualties on both 
rich. Perhaps your con-:(,r'/ ,.,,....,~~ 
sides. If we continue science is assuaged by ~,<e our consumption­
7 

the idea that interna-.g ,, r fueled environmcn­
'

~~oen~~~1~ti~~~1n!~~ke ~~t~/~
~~~

tMhoenlenttaerrynaFtuionndal 
(IMF) are working to end global poverty. 
Unfortunately, that is a lie. More people than ever live in poverty. 
The countries who are follow­ing the capitalist policies of the J 
World Bank and /] IMF are destroying their social pro• grams, smash­ing unions and lowering envi­ronmental stan­<lards to set up an inviting cli­mate for multi­national corpo­rations to come and exploit their workers. 
As the Third World goes deep­er into debt and lurches from one financial crisis to another, stock mar­kets in the rich nations soar. It is clear that those who profit from this capital­ist "economic develop­ment" are the same rich nations that fund and con­trol international agencies 


like the World Bank and the 
._,.,-_,,..,.,,-t7'.1 class war going on and IMF. __,,.,,/ hundreds of millions are What do you call a form of col­dying. Which side are you on? 
lective violence where rich people live in luxury, poor people are exploit­ed and there is a direct connection between these two facts? 
I call it class war. 
It is a cleverly disguised war as our parents, schools, media and churches socialize us to believe that capitalism is the best economic system. Any 
/. 
• /, ,,,,~ 
l• ~
:P1:J 

'---5' ­
~ 
f 
• ""' 



justice and never be r,: satisfied until there ~ are no longer rich or 
poor. Our idleness is only support for _.. J exploitation. There is a 
country that attempts an alternative form of' developmlmt is denied international loans and foreign invest­ment and risks a financial crisis. 
In previous years, the United States used a country's generals to over­throw nations seeking an alternative 
to enforced poverty, but now eco-

Aaron Kreider is a third year sociol­ogy graduate student. llis column appears every other Munday. 
The views expressed in this column are those uf the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
t~~;~1i::~~~ ~i~~ 

will not be able to 
escape its conse­
quences. 

As we put profit before everything, our 
families, com­munitics, per­sonal relation­ships, culture and spirituali­ty are being corrupted by
greed. Class war erupts into real wars and people die on the battlefields. 
As active participants in the great­est form of 
evil in our times what must we do? 

We must repent, and sin no more. By 
this, I mean 
that we must 

use every ounce of our class privi­lege to destroy all forms of privilege. We must work fur 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Monday, April 2, 2001 BSERVER page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Research better done in library than online 
I am writing in response to Laura Kelly's article in the f,.Jarch 21 edition of The Observer entitled"Homework Got you Stumped'! Help is just a Mouse Click Away." 
Though i believe Laura was being facetious when she made claims like "everything you need can be found onlinc," I lhink the article made me uneasy because it contributes to the growing misconception that the "dot­coms" of the web have the expertise, commitment and incentive to provide students with a comprehensive body of freA scholarly materials. 
I think the more publicity these type of Web sites receive, the more legiti­mate they seem. But rather than try to talk anyone out of using them, l would like to temper the hype by offering other issues to consider. For example, your tuition dollars have already con­tributed to the purchase of many online resources superior to the ones mentioned in the article. 
SparkNotes.com was described by Laura as a site for students seeking easy answers to the most pressing aca­demic problems. This may be true if your most pressing academic problem involves doing cursory research on the approximately 150 authors contained in the SparkNote.com database or on literary titles that, for the most part. show up on reading lists in junior and 
Benefits of 
cloning 
people 

The recent debate on campus over cloning individuals reveals the narrow focus that bioethics is using to view human genome issues. The more critical question is how we will preserve the germplasm, not of a single person, but of whole races that are rapidly vanishing. 
Imagine when the last population of full­blooded Kalahari Bushmen is gone. That rare and beautiful race will then be as unrecoverable as the dodo. We are being urged to save pandas and rhinos from extinction. Why not save the unique pheno­types of humankind? 
Human races are cultural artifacts with aesthetic function. They also have value as components of the totai biodiversity of the natural world. As reservoirs of distinct physical traits and genotypes, different races may have unexpected importance in the future survival of our species. 
Genetic preservation is well-established for plants and animals. and an international effort is being made to preserve biodiversity in every crop plant and livestock species. Why not in humans? 
Bioethicists need to broaden their vision and give guidance on how we should pre­serve the germplasm of whole races. Will it be by cloning, tissue banks. surrogate par­enting or preferential gamete pairings? Time is running out, and the tough bioethi• cal questions for Homo sapiens remain to be answered. 
Susan L. Sprecher 
South Bend, Ind. March 30, 2001 
senior high school. 

But a better choice for pressing aca• demic research in literature would seem to be the Literature Resource Center, which contains biographical coverage of more than 109,000 writers and more than 10,000 "blocritical" essays on authors and their works. It also contains over 4,000 explications and overviews of prominent literary works and links to more than 5000 Web sites focusing on major authors and their works. 
This gem is available onllne from the Library's Electronic Resources Gateway. 
Laura also mentions reference works contained in SparkNotes.com's dictio­nary.com iTools. 
While these sites do have some handy sources, they are already avail­able to you from the Virtual Reference Desk and the Student Virtual Reference Desk. But more than these free web resources, you have access to important reference works you won't find free on the web such as the Oxford English Dictionary. 
Britannica Online is going to go back to a being a paid subscription service so it will probably disappear from the free research Web sites. You will, how­ever, still be able to access it from the Library's Electronic Resources Gateway along with the Literature Resource Center. 
There are many other reasons why reliance on Web sites such as those mentioned in Laura's article is unwise. Who is going to maintain, update and add to these sites? Since they are free to use, profitability for the site owners is uncertain. How long will they be able to last? Who is doing the con­tributing? 
SparkNotes.com says Harvard stu­dents and graduates are their contrib­utors. But when l looked at the actual SparkNotes.com, all I saw were names of contributors and no other back­ground information. I e-mailed the folks at SparkNotes.com and asked if I could find out more about the contrib­utors (I'm waiting to hear from them). 
I wondered what their fields of expertise were. Was it appropriate to what they were writing about? 
SparkNotes.com states that all authors "specialize in the subjects they cover." That's pretty broad. I won­dered if the staff was full or part-time, paid or voluntary. This would have implications for the reliability of the site if contributors were constantly changing. 
And yet, Laura's article suggests this authorship model is preferable to one composed of "ancient professors or academics." 
Does it seem likely that Harvard stu­dents have a keener interest in your academic achievement than profes­sors? 
I will close by saying the obvious. At this time doing Internet-only research defeats your academic aims. You arc not involved in intellectual discovery but in churning out projects based on what you can access from your dorm room. It puts restrictions on your end product because you've restricted your input. 
As renowned Web consultant Jakob Nielsen has said, "Anything that is great in print is likely to be lousy on the Web." 
Consider also more things are being published now than ever before and only a fraction of them are available on the Internet. 
You'll be paying a high price for chaining yourself to your dorm room. So, it's your call. You can spend a while surfing the Internet and find sources you can piece together for a paper. But, if you want more from your academic career than perfecting "McResearch," consider spending time on the Library Web site and discover­ing what's there. 
Linda Sharp reference librarian at Hesburgh Library South Bend, Ind. March 30, 200 l 

GUEST COLUMN 
The Terminator tackles politics 
OXFORD, Miss. "Tonight's debate will consist of a blind question ses­
I hope that each and every one of you are sitting sion and followed a steel cage match. Each candidate down before you read what I have to say. Arnold will be able to enter the ring with the theme song of Schwarzenegger {read: the muscular guy from Austria their choice." who blows up random buildings and manages to save And we thought Ventura would make Minnesota the the day) could be in charge of an entire state. laughing stock of the country when he won governor in 
There are currently rumors, that state. Hang on, it's Minnesota that is known only much to the delight of conserva­Brandon as the home of 10,000 lakes and the Mall of America, tives and fans of "The Last Action Niemeyer so there wasn't much respect for it to lose. Hero," that Schwarzenegger will On the campaign trail, Schwarzenegger could be run for governor of California. equally hysterical. At least he could stand up in front 
Daily

God, can you imagine someone of women's and children's groups and profess his love running a political office that is Mississippian for kids. "I was in Kindergarten Cop. Kids love that best known for starring in bad movie. Vote for me." action-adventure movies with no All of this really exposes a pathetic nature we plot? Americans have: If you're famous, you can be any­
The fact that Schwarzenegger is even being consid­thing, including governor of California. ered for such a leadership role is terrifying to Why can't Hollywood simply stay out of politics? me. With all the things the people of Yes, Hollywood actors are concerned with California have been going through ~ issues. But we all are. with things like plummeting tech ~ ~;, ,,; To be honest, does anyone really care stocks and power outages, they ~ /. It\ ~~ what Alec Baldwin or Charlton 
must be forgetting the impor-,,, l\\( ¾ v" Heston think about gun control? I
'2· 1. 

tant things in life, like taking fr~ _,,,, ~_,.iliil._...,......__ ~~/ know Heston is the president of their medication. ·u·y. 4-1, · w. the NRA and all, but the only 
All of this must be a part ~~ 1 reason he was even considered ofa giant evil plot by Paul ~/. was because everyone knew he Michael Glaser, the man would bring in a lot of publici­
r/ 

who directed the 1987 ty.
I 

movie "The Running ~ We soon may be seeing Pee Man." "Running Man" Wee Herman and Chewbacca starred both , run for state Senate seats in Schwarzenegger and cur-·• • California if Schwarzenegger is rent Minnesota governor ~ elected. 
and soon to be ex-XFL Though, when you look at it in announcer Jesse Ventura. a deep way, running for a major 
Why in the name of all that political office is just like starring in is held holy would you want a movie: Either way you're regurgi­Schwarzenegger running your tating what someone else has told you state? to say. 
Schwarzenegger would add nothing to the political climate in that state except 300-This article first appeared in the University of plus pounds of steroid-built muscles. Mississippi newspaper, the Daily Mississippian, and is 
At least political debates would be somewhat inter­reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE. esting. Imagine someone like Jim Lehrer telling the The views expressed in this column are those of the format of each debate. author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

cene 
page 10 Monday, April 2, 2001 
TENNESSEE . AUSTIN PEAY . TEXAS . ST. MARY'S CA . CLEMSON . CHATTANOOGA . XAVIER . LOUISVILLE . LSU . ARIZONA ST. . PURDUE 
Cl) 
z 
I 0
..... 





•

ID 

Moments make history. Sunday night against Purdue. the Notre Dame women's basketball team had a lot of moments -and made a lot of history. "It's the greatest moment in our basketball history at Notre Dame." head coach Muffet McGraw gushed to reporters fol­lowing the women's first-ever NCAA basketball title. But while Sunday night's moments were undeniably history in the making, the win was just one in a series of moments that have constructed a dream March Madness run for the Fighting Irish. At left. head coach Muffet McGraw and team throw their hands up to celeb.rate Notre Dame's 68-66 championship win over Purdue Sunday. Clockwise from top. page 11: Kelly Siemon scores over Alcorn State in Notre Dame's first round victory. From left to right, Siemon, Karen Swanson, Niele Ivey. and Imani Dunbar celebrate Notre Dame's Hegional Final victory against Vanderbilt. Siemon battles for a rebound in the Sweet 16 against Utah. 
photos by: 
JOSE CUELLAR, TIM KACMAR and ALLSPORT 
. 
design by: 
NOREEN GILLESPIE 

VNI'IO'llV:J 'ON . 3'>1V11Q . VAONV'I11A . 3'.J.V..LS OQVll010:J . GNV1',UIVW . GNV1S'J 9NO'J . .LC1:JI.L:::>1INNO:J . Oll:Vh.\OH . '.UY.LS V&.OJ . :IN 


cene 
Monday, April 2, 2001 page 11 
SANTA BARBARA . VIRGINIA TECH . DENVER . TEXAS TECH . PENNSYLVANIA . DUKE . WISCONSIN-MILWAUKEE . BAYLOR . ARKANSAS . 


2001 NCAA NATIONAL CHAMPIONS 


SEASON RECORD: 34-2 

~ 
....s:: 
CII CII 
0 
C 
~ 
(J) 
s;j@ 
. 
..;i 
§ 0 
0 
. 
~ 
C'l 
r,j 
~ . 
(J) 
t ~ . 
::i:: 
§ .... 
z 
z 
. 
0 
6 
0 
0 
....a:: 
~ 
0 
z 
. 
"T.I 
s 
~ 
~ 
. 
::c 
0 
~ 
C") 
~ 
CII CII 
. 
G") tTJ 0 
~ 
tTJ 
t 
::c:
.... 
z 
C'l 
~ 
z 
. 
(J) 
~ 
't'l 
0 
~ 
. 
0 
~ 
0 
~ 

~· 
. 
0 
~ 
:,::, 
0 
c:, tTJ 
cl 
CII 
. 
~ 
0 ~ 
~ 
Cl) 
>1 
~ 


.l . 3J.V.LS V0HI0lt{ . 3.IV.LS 0HV0J . .L1HHl30NVA . VN'IIS . OCT\fll010'.) . N0~3llO . V&.01 . ff13JdlllVtJ . HV.111 . VINI9ll.lA . NV~IH::>IW . 
Monday, April 2, 2001 

page 12 The ObJerver .NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP EDITION 
BASEBALL 
Notre Dame sweeps 3-game series with Pirates 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Assistant Spores Editor 
It's easy to tell when Aaron Heilman is pitching just by glanc­ing at the stands. Right behind home plate sits a contingent of major league scouts, each armed with a. radar gun and a note­book, recording lleilman's every pitch and sizing up his potential. 
And they would not be disap• pointed in the first game of a twin bill against Seton Hall Saturday at Frank Eck Stadium. Heilman turned in what has become a routine performance for him -a complete game shutout, allowing just four hits and striking out six in the seven­inning game. The Irish beat the Pirates 6-0 in the early game, and turned in a 6-1 victory in the nightcap. 
Notre Dame backhanded the Pirates on Sunday afternoon by 15-3 margin to compete the Big East sweep and run their record to 20-4-1, 5-2 in conference action. 
After a pre-game ceremony honoring head coach Paul Mainieri's 600th win on Mar. 17 and his 1,000th game coached Thursday against Hillsdale College, the Irish settled in at the plate early in the opener, erupt­ing for all their six runs in the first two innings. 
Leftfielder Kris Billmaier, who has emerged as an RBI man for the Irish, plated two across in the first inning when his two-out sin­gle to left scored teammates Paul OToole and Brian Stavisky. 

Alec Porzel sparked the Irish to four runs in the second, when he singled home Steve Sollmann. Porzel seemed to be shaking off the il1 effects of a season-opening slump that saw him open this year's campaign. He had two hits in the first two innings, as well as three hits in second game on Saturday. 
Being ahead in the first few innings of a contest had been fairly unknown territory for the Irish prior to Saturday, having scored 14 runs in the first two innings all season. 
Heilman took over from that point, continuously working through minor jams to shut down the Pirates. In the next five innings, Seton Hall had runners on, but could never advance one farther than third base. 
The freshman Sollmann made a stunning defensive play in the fourth, diving to snag a Kevin Leighton line drive, and complet­ing the unassisted double play by tagging out Leighton's brother Brian. 
The top of the seventh would feature an interesting battle between Heilman and Pirate pinch-hitter Garrett Weir. Taking a liberal lead from first consider­ing his team was down by six in the last inning, Weir drew multi­ple pickoff attempts from the righthander, The crowd mur­mured on several of the throws, believing Weir had actually been picked off. 

Finally, on the fourth try, Heilman caught Weir leaning toward second, and fired the ball to first baseman Joe Thaman, who applied the tag to the diving Weir for the first out. 
The win moved Heilman to 7-0 on the season, with 35 wins all­time, second in Notre Dame his­tory. 
Danny Tamayo would take the hill for the Irish on Saturday, and would run his record to 4-1 while allowing eight hits but striking out 10 and allowing just one earned run in 7.2 innings, lead­ing the Irish to a 6-1 victory. 
As far as offense was con­cerned, the Irish were consistent but not dominating. Innings two through five would see the Irish secure one run each inning, with two in the seventh to wrap up the ballgame. 
Porzel had three doubles in the nightcap, sending his season total to a team leading 11. Stavisky had two doubles of his own. as Notre Dame seemed to awaken from their offensive slumber that characterized the beginning of the season. 
If Notre Dame's offense woke up on Saturday, it jumped out of bed on Sunday. 

The Irish bats would not be injury earlier in the year, smack­denied throughout the game, as ing the Pirate pitching staff for Porzel continued his double three hits and four HBis. O'Toole stampede to break the Notre went 3-for-3 batting out of the Dame career doubles mark of 61 two hole. previously held by Eric Danapilis The Irish return to action (1993). Tuesday against Ball State at 
Stavisky showed that he has home, with the first pitch sched­fully recovered from a hamstring uled for 5:05 p.m. 
Irish earn respect, Blue Devils add to tradition 
It's 2:30 p.m. on Sunday. The Notre Dame women's basketball team plays tonight at 7:30 in the first-ever national championship game for an Irish basket­ball squad. 
Conventional wis­dom would there­fore have me writing this sometime after the game ends, hopefully something about people danc­ing on tables to cele­brate a Notre Dame win. 
1lowever, no one has ever said what I write makes any sense, displays any sort of wisdom, or makes any claims to be conventional. 
Fortunately for me, this team, which now sports a record of 33-2 after a 90-75 win over UConn on Friday night, has already given me plenty to write about. 
Friday nights can be a rocky time for those of us whose most wild weekend consists of the time we watched the NCM tournament for 31 straight hours, but this past Friday stood out. 
Together with 11 of my best friends, some more sober than others, I crammed into a room in Morrissey to watch the final act of the Irish/Husky Trilogy for 2001. 


We cheered for Notre Dame baskets and steals, yelled at officials for their calls (apparently it's now illegal for a center to back someone down in the post) and cursed at the bad bounces. 
And if we're all honest, we did that last thing at the refs, too (So when Ericka Haney bumps into a UConn player at the foul line, don't blow the whistle -but once the player scores. go ahead and blow it and give her a shot at a three­point play). 
We saw the first half wind down, with Notre Dame's March to the Arch looking like it would end with the drum major dropping the baton. Down by as many as 16 in the first half, the Irish looked up from the bottom of a hole that no team in the Final Four had ever successfully climbed out of. 
And at the top of that hole? The defending national champions, trying to bury the Irish and still get home in time for Sportscenter. 
But then came the greatest 20 minutes in Notre Dame basketball history, a stretch where the Irish, after giving up the first three points of the half, went on a 53-23 romp that didn't end until the final horn. 
The attack came from all directions, from all five positions and players on the floor. Haney and Kelley Siemon slashed to the basket, Ruth Hiley abused people in the post, and Alicia Hatay showed why she's the country's leading markswoman from 3-point range. 
As for point guard Niele Ivey, even though she played the entire second half with three fouls and then later, a sprained ankle, the player who always seems two steps faster than everyone else was, and she did whatever needed to be done whenever it needed doing. 
No longer did we see a Notre Dame team that appeared overmatched in the face of a national power. 
The Irish are that national power now, not to be bullied or intimidated by the likes of a UConn. 
And just when we thought we had seen it all for one weekend with big time comebacks, along came Duke and Maryland in the men's tournament. 
In a game that bore somewhat of an eerie resemblance to that played on Friday night at the Savvis Center, these two teams from the ACCmet for the fourth time this year at the Metrodome. 
Maryland got out to a 22 point lead in the first half, only to see it cut to 49-38 at halftime. The Terps eventually lost by 11, 95-84, the Dukies completing a 33 
point swing. 
UConn's lead in the first half got as big as 47-31, and the Irish trailed 49-37 at the half. Notre Dame went on to flip that margin upside down, completing their own 31 point swing and winning by 15. 
The biggest difference between these· two games separated by about 24 hours and 550 miles? Going in, a lot of people felt Duke was the country's class act. 
Notre Dame still had to fight for that respect. 
After destroying the Huskies by 27 in the second half on a national stage, Sue Bird saying her team felt the antithesis of UConn basketball and panic, Notre Dame can now move to the head of the class. 
So thank you, ladies, for that moment on Friday night -the proudest I have ever been to be a sports-loving Notre Dame student. 
I know anything less than a national title won't satisfy you. 
But regardless of what happened against Purdue, I'll still only have one thing to say: 
Long live the new queens of college basketball. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office,
CLASSIFIEDS 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexc-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per characcer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves che right 10 edit 
all classifieds for concenr wichour issuing cefunds. 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST A black cany-on bag at Main Circle on Thursday (3122) between 8 pm and midnight. If lound or have any info on its whereabouts, please contact Pablo at x1775 
Set or keys at Lafayette Please call Joe at 219-243-1229 
FOR SALE 
LOSE WEIGHT! EAT WHAT YOU LIKEI WEIGHT WATCHERS ON CAMPUS SERVICE Your super-convenient dream diet from a name you trust is corning to Notre Darnel No complicated count• ingl Eat pizza, cookies, fast-food ­any lood you crave and lose weight. Get info-packed booklets, tons of super-easy recipes, samples of your great snack bars and special• ized onJine support from trained Weight Watchers statt. You pay just $59 for 5 weeks. Summer is just around the corner -register today over the phone! 1-800-572-5727. Visa, Mastercard and Discover accepted. 

Full size bed with box spring and frame $150 call 634--4575 
FOR RENT 
New home Fall 2001. This 3+ bdrm, 3 bath home is close to campus with features like fireplace, cathe­dral ceilings, family room, deluxe appliances, 24x30 garage. $1400/mo Call 219-232--4527 
Nice 3·bdrrn 1-1/2 bath Tri-level, family room, fireplace, fenced back yard, 2-car garage $995/mo Call 219-232--4527 Or 616-683·5038 
3-bdrm home 2 blks from campus, Fall 01. 273-1566 CHICAGO APT. AVAILABLE FOR MAY THROUGH AUGUST IN LIN­COLN PARK LOCATION. CLOSE TOEL 1 or 2 BEDROOMS OWN BATHROOM $780/rno. 
1-312-443-6062 JAIME 
3-6 BDRM HOMES $180 per person Furn. Summer/Fall 
272-6306 
WANTED 
Need infant childcare for 6 month old Wed & Fri 8-5. 
Contact Kristen 631 ·8270 
PERSONAL 
Thanks for the camera Gunville. 

Monday, April 2, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP EDITION page 13 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Duke, Arizona meet in title game 
Associated Press 
MlNNEAPOLIS 

Somebody asked Lute Olson what Arizona's biggest chal­lenge would be against a Duke team few opponents have stopped this sea­son. 
Five min­utes later, 0 I s o n wrapped up his reply. 
Duke's 
M i k e 
Krzyzewski has a similar laun­dry list about Arizona's strong points. 
Such is life when the two teams considered the best in the country in the preseason actually make it to the NCAA title game. 
Sure, there have been good matchups in the past, but the Duke-Arizona final Monday night has been almost univer­sally regarded as one of the most exquisitely balanced championship games anyone can remember. 
'Tm sure it's going to be a very interesting 40 minutes for everyone," Olson said. 
Arizona was ranked first and Duke second in the preseason poll. The Wildcats had some well-documented problems along the way. while Duke made it through with only four defeats despite the temporary loss of starting center Carlos Boozer to a foot injury. 
In the end, however. college basketball will get a true champion -not just a good team on a hot streak -a group good enough to cope with its opponents and great expectations. 

"It's fitting that the two best teams are meeting to play for the national championship," Duke All-American Shane Battier said. "That's the way it should be. The true champions should have to beat the best teams." 
Speaking of that, Arizona is trying to duplicate its 1997 achievement of beating three top-seeded teams on the way to its title. Those Wildcats are the only team to do that. 
The differences between 1997 and this year's team are too numerous to list. Most notable among them are the difficulties this year's team has endured, especially the death of Olson's wife, Bobbi, like a mother to many of these play­ers. 
On the court, the 1997 team was a plucky underdog; this team has had visions of a title since the first practice. 
"From the start of the year, their focus has been on getting to this game and having a chance to win the national championship," Olson said. "And there may have been some difficult times along the way." 
Duke has taken the identical. road to this point as it did in 1992 -Greensboro, N.C., Philadelphia, Minneapolis ­when it won the second of its back-to-back titles. 
Since the UCLA dynasty ended in the 1970s, Duke has established itself as one of the two or three most storied pro­grams in the country. This is its ninth trip to the Final Four since 1986. Two years ago, the Blue Devils were 36·1 and heavy favorites to win the championship, but came up one win short. 


They overcame a 22-point deficit in the semifinal against Maryland on Saturday night, and Battier felt it was more than just Xs and Os that got them through. 
"It was just a matter of relaxing, looking each other in the eye and saying, 'Hey, let's do the things we've done all year long and do it because we're Duke,'" Battier said. "We expect to do it at a high level." 
When it comes to stopping Duke, Olson's many concerns are justified. 
The Blue Devils made the most 3-pointers (398) in NCAA history and lead the nation by making 10.6 a game. They're more relentless rebounders than most teams give them credit for, and they might have the best point guard in the country in Jason Williams. 
Arizona presents its own problems. 
All five starters average dou­ble-digits in points, and the Wildcats are versatile, able to run with teams who play that style and pound with Big Ten teams like Illinois and Michigan State who try to out­muscle them. 
Both teams agree that beat­ing the best would be the most satisfying way to win a cham­pionship. 
"They are the best team on the East Coast and we're one of the better ones in the West," Arizona guard Richard Jefferson said. 
SOFTBALL 
Belles split double­header with Adrian 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associace Spurts Editor 
Using a loss to claim victory. the Saint Mary's softball team a doubleheader with Adrian College Saturday. 
After dropping the after­noon game to the Bulldogs 8­5, the Belles came back and claimed a decisive 10-2 victo­ry. 
"In the second game we realized that we were a much better opponent and started to play like it," senior Cindy Traub said. 
The doubleheader marked the MIAA season opener for both teams who now stand 1­1 in the MIAA. 
The Belles (9-8) took an early 1-0 lead in the first game. However, an error­filled third allowed Adrian (5­
15) to claim a six-run third that put Saint Mary's back by five. 
"They were hitting the ball and we were kicking it around," Traub said. "We struggled defensively and they took advantage of our mis­takes and scored a lot of runs." 
A fourth-inning run by Saint Mary's just wasn't enough to bring home a victory. 
In the fourth, Saint Mary's answered with four runs, to bring the game within one, but the Belles fell short in the last innings of the game. 
"If it wasn't for {the third inning] we would have won," Traub said. "We came out in the fourth inning and tore it open, but it was a matter of too little too late." 
Adrian added two more runs to its score before the game ended. 

Junior Kristin Martin pitched seven innings during the game, giving up only three earned runs. 
After the afternoon's loss, the Belles were hungry in the nightcap. 
"It's always frustrating to lose the ones you know you could have won," Traub said. "We were all aware after the first game that we had not played to our potential. So it was a matter of coming out and playing how we knew in the second game." 
Saint Mary's did just that. 
Senior Anne Senger started the second game. giving up only one earned run for the evening. 
The Belles took control offensively, scoring 10 runs to claim the 10-2 victory. 
With a 2-1 lead going into the fifth inning, the Belles tore open their lead with six runs in the fifth. They tacked on two more runs during the last innings of the game. 
Rachel Deer, Susan Kutz and Melissa Hayes each reached base three times dur­ing the weekend for the Belles. Deer claimed one dou­ble, while Kutz traveled to second twice. Martin claimed a homerun and a double on the weekend. 
Saint Mary's will next face off against league competition Albion this Wednesday at 4 
p.m. at home. 

Book.store Basketball 2001 
Captains' Meeting 

When: Monday, April 2nd 
5:30 P.M. 

Where: DeBartolo Room 101 
A representative from each Bookstore team should be there to pick up the brackets and team rules. 
www.nd.edu/......bkstr 

li?STUDENT  TICKET  
li?ISIC  
[i?HOSTEL  CARD  

[MBACKPACK ~PASSPORT [i? EURA I LPASS 
1ou llRf. so Rf.llDl fOR 
f.UROPf.. 
r-,IITravel,. 
AM E R I C A • s LEA D E R I N s-r uD E N T TRAV E L 
1·800·2COUNCIL 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
WWW.COUNCILTRAUEL.COM 
Recycle The Observer. 
----------------------------·-------------------------------------------------~ ----­
page 14 The Observer . NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP EDITION Monday, April 2, 200 I 
Champs 
continued from page 20 
her to make. and she shot it 
with a lot of confidonco," 
McGraw said of Hatay·s basket, 
her only points of' the night. "I 
was just so pleased that she 
had the courage to take that 
shot." 
Purdue forward Shereka 
Wright was then fouled, hitting 
one of two free throws to put 
Purdue up 63-62. 
A Niele Ivey field goal with 
2:06 left put Notre Dame up 64· 
63. After Notre Dame got the ball back, Katie Douglas answered with a steal. Douglas was fouled driving the lane, but still managed to convert the lay-up. She hit her free throw to give Purdue a 66-64 lead with 1:22 left. 
At tlrn one minute mark, Hatay found Hiley under the glass to tie the game at 66. 
Following a Wright miss, Notre Dame got tho ball back and called a timeout with 25.9 seconds remaining. 
"I knew it was going to come down to the final seconds," Wright said. "Notre Dame is a great team. We weren't going to back down and we thought we had it." 
The Irish let the clock wind down before Kelley Siemon threw a pass high into the air to Hiley under the basket. Riley caught the ball and posted up. 
The Naismith player of the year drew a foul from Wright with 5.8 seconds remaining, setting up the game-winning shots. 
Douglas missed a jumper from the top the key with the clock winding down and Hatay grabbed the rebound to give Notre Dame its first champi­onship in any sport since the 1995 women's soccer team took home a title. 
"We just wanted to keep them in front of us," Ivey said. "Katie Douglas took a critical shot and I was willing to do whatever I could for this team." 
For Douglas, the game just wasn't meant to go into over­time. 
"l had a good look at the bas· ket, the ball just didn't go down for me," Douglas said. "You have to give Notre Dame credit, they made it difficult for us." 

Hiley was still stuck in her 
moment as the clock ticked off. 

"I really wasn't playing 
defense on that last play," she 
said. "I was watching the free 
throw go in. I looked down the 
court and Camille Cooper was 
standing there wide open, and 
that was my man. I just got 
lucky that Katie missed a shot." 
Riley's teammate on the AP 
All-American first team, 
Douglas, led the Boilermakers 
wards Shalacia Hurns and 
Wright each added 17 points 
for Purdue. lvey scored 12 
points, grabbed five rebounds 
and nabbed six steals for the 
Irish despite playing on a sore 
ankle that kept her out of prac­
tice Saturday. 

"This is my team. I'm the cap­
tain, I'm the leader," Ivey said. 
"This is my hometown and I 
was willing to do whatever I 
could for this team." 

Hurns, Wright and Douglas joined Ivey and Hiley on the All­Tournament team. 
Forward Ericka Haney scored 
13 crucial points for the Irish, 
putting the ball in from the top 
of the key as often as below the 
hoop. Siemon added 10 points 
for Notre Dame. 

Just as Conncc1icut came out strong in the opening half of their semifinal game against Notre Dame, the Boilermakers opened up in force Sunday. Purdue grabbed 29 first-half rebounds to Notre Dame's 17, including a 13-5 advantage on the offensive glass. 
Six minutes into the first half, Douglas hit a 3-pointer Lo give Purdue their largest lead of the game-16-5. 
Then Riley took over. 

Notre Dame's All-American center scored 13 of her team's next 17 points. pulling the Irish within 25-22 with 6:15 left in the half. 
Then, with 4:14 remaining before the half, Riley committed her second foul of the game when she tagged Hurns on a drive to the basket. McGraw kept her star senior on the bench for the remainder of the half. 
Without Riley on the floor, Notre Dame managed to keep the gap at six points. Two Ivey lay-ins provided Notre Dame's four points, while Douglas and Wright each hit one field goal for Purdue to close the half with a 32-26 lead. 
21st Annual Great Race, Inc. Sports Festival 
ianceSP01(1
Competition 
8one~ling litoracy and Ed1J1:atlon 



Professional * Amateur • Pro-Am •Competitions &Pro Show 
Friday, Saturday & Sunday, April 6, 7 & 8, 2001 _ 
Notre Dame JACC • Notre Dame, Indiana 
Friday, April 6 
'Sptciaf ,,,,,,.,lll'lllla• 7pm-11pm 't"J"'f (lfltr14 Ja11cutyfes' 
-·rr moffpafl'f 
Dancing • HO!S'ditNres • Meal slam 
Saturda~ April 7 
Sam-Spm 
Amal9UI'• Pro-Am Co""6111iMS 
l!pm,12 Scholarships • Professiorlai Compelilllll' Dazzung SIKlW /Baturing: 
Tony Meredilh &Melanie WPalin Rauno &Knstiina llo 
Sunday, April 8 
10am-l2pm 
Workshops twh Sla/5 
•¾(ahllUt
' Pmnia wurtsiiu 
Group rates oot ava,allle at doo/ 
'VIP sporuurship
statinq with fur your curporatwn.
f=;vaifabu 
CALL 219-522-1423 


JOSE CUELLAR/The Observer 
Junior Ericka Haney drives to the basket In Notre Dame's 68-66 win over Purdue. Haney scored 13 points to help the Irish to victory. 
Ii Think different 

On Display
NOW! 


PowerBook G4 
The world's first portable supercomputer. 
• 1" thick • 5.3 pounds 
• 
Slot loading DVD-ROM 

• 
5-hour batterv life 

• 
15.2'' mega-wide screen 

• 
Titanium case 

• 
400 or 500MHz G4 Processor with Velocity Engine 

• 
iMovie & iTunes for digital movies and music 



Solutions Center 
Room 112 Computing Center, 219-631-7477 http://www.nd.edu/~solution Email: Solution@nd.edu 
© 2000 Apple Compute~ Inc. AH rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Mac, and PowerBook are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Apple Store and "Think different" are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Monday, April 2, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP EDITION page 15 

JOSE CUELLAR/The Observer 

Senior forward Kelley Siemon looks to dish the ball off to a teammate. Siemon scored 10 points and had a team-high six assists. 
PPE THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE Concentration invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 

(1) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and 

(2) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, 


then PPE wants you! 

FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Department, O'Connor.2@nd.edu, 631-6226, or Professor John Roos, Government Department, Roos.l@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to either Professor John Roos at Roos.l@nd.edu or Professor David O'Connor at O'Connor.2@nd.edu. The application deadline is noon on Thursday, April 12. Late applications will be accepted onlv if openings are still available. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
We know the rest. Our par­ents know the rest. Heck, Sporting America knows the rest. 
Who would have thought it? 

At a school where the two biggest sports are unquestion­ably football and spring foot­ball, the 2001 women's basket­ball team made LoVccchio, Arnaz and GT seem insignifi­cant. 
At a school where females weren't admitted until 1972, the 2001 women's basketball team even garnered support from "old-school" Notre Dame men. 
At a school where myth and folklore reign supreme. the 2001 women's basketball team actually achieved a significant on-field moment. 
Where have you gone Tony Rice? Where have you gone Lou Holtz'! Where have you gone Frank Stams? 
(I know. The women's soccer squad won the national title in 1995. But this is by far the biggest win since Holtz's 1988 team won the 11th football national championship.) 
Prior to the season, only the most diehard of Irish lovers would have predicted a nation­al title. 
At least one prominent coach thought your humble servant believed this was the year. 
"I know you're writing for Notre Dame and you want to write, you know, that I spent all summer worrying about Notre Dame," Connecticut coach Geno Auriemma said on Friday night. "The only thing I spent all summer worrying about was where my next beer and my next tan was coming from." 
Thanks for the quote, Geno. 

I knew you thought you would win the title. And why not? Connecticut returned its top eight scorers from the Huskies' 2000 national cham­pionship team and added the nation's top high school senior. Last season, Connecticut had a 36-1 record, with the only blemish being a 72-71 loss on Feb. 2. Only three of the 36 victories were decided by less than 10 points. 
So it was a safe bet that the 

Storrs would celebrate once 
again on April Fools Day 2001. 
As the season went on, 

Geno's preseason arrogance 
shrunk. 
And Notre Dame's new dar­

lings believed they could actu­ally compete with the mighty Huskies. 
"I know we talked about it (winning a national title) last year," McGraw said. "Bui it was sort of a hollow goal. I don't think the team was ready to achieve that, I don't think they were mature enough, I don't think they worked hard enough." 
After the Jan. 15 victory over Connecticut, Muffet and Her Miracles spoke a lot about how this was "a year of destiny." After every ensuing game, someone would refer to 2001 as the "perfect season.'' 
Then came this weekend. 
Down 12 at the half against Connecticut? If it was last year, forget about it. It was safer to bet that Jim Sanson would actually connect on an over 40-yard field goal than to put your money on a Notre Dame comeback. 
A tight game against Purdue? If it was last year, Riley would have fouled out and the Irish would have been wound tighter than a Britney Spears top. 
But instead. there was Riley at the free throw line with 5.8 seconds remaining, with the game tied. 
The first shot grazed the front rim and fell through the hoop, giving the Irish only their third lead of the night. 
Moments later, a Purdue­based reporter sitting beside me almost fell out of his chair. 
"It pays to have the Big Guy on your side sometimes," he said. 
It also pays to have the Big Girl. And when Purdue's Katie Douglas decided she would not perform a Sue Bird imperson­ation, it was time for the cam­eras to capture the scene. 
The hugs. The kisses. The tears. 
Niele Ivey also wanted to 
relive the moments. So the 
senior point guard, who ended 
her five-year career just min­
utes away from her home, 
grabbed a Sony camcorder 
from her boyfriend, Irish 
receiver Javin Hunter. 
Around 9:55 p.m, after the 
awards ceremony, after the 
final strand of net had been 
cut, Ivey finally headed 
towards the locker room. 
She was the last player to 
leave the court. 
"I can't wait to watch it 
again," Ivey said "It seems like 
it all happened so fast." 
Now it's over, this wacky 
season is over. 
And Notre Dame, Our 
Mother has found 12 adopted 
daughters. 

CASTING & ANGLING 
CLINIC 
Three Sessions 6:00-7: 1 S PM Open to ND Students & Employees $8.00 Class Fee 
CLASS DATES 
APRIL3 
APRIL 10 
APRIL 17 


Classes Held in the Joyce Center & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
page 16 The Observer . NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP EDITION Monday, April 2, 200 I 
Irish draw comparisons to Husky championship team 
By TIM CASEY As.,isranr Spom Ediror 
ST. LOUIS 
Is this the beginning of a 

dynasty in women's basket­
ball? 
It's still too early to tell. 

Notre Dame loses five seniors, 
including Lhrec starters. but 
has one of the nation's top five 
recruiting classes heading to 
South Bend in the fall. 
But look at the following comparisons between the 1994-95 Connecticut team and this year's Notre Dame squad. The Huskies won their first national title in 94-95 and went on to become the nation's premier program. 
In 1991, Connecticut 

appeared in the Final Four for 
the first time. Five seasons 
later, the Huskies were nation­
al champions. 
In 1997, Notre Dame was in its first Final Four. Five sea­sons later, the Irish were national champions. 
On Jan. 16, 1995. No. 2 appeared Connecticut beat No. 1 Tennessee 77-66 before a sold-out Gampel Pavilion. In the Huskies previous contest, against Seton Hall, star center Hebecca Lobo dislocated her finger. In the game against Tennessee, on Martin Luther King Day, Lobo had 13 points, eight rebounds and five blocked shots. 
On Jan. 15, 2001, No. 3 Notre Dame beat· No. 1 Connecticut 92-76 before a sold-out Joyce Center. In the lrish's previous contest, against Virginia Tech, star center Huth Riley injured her right ankle. In the game against Connecticut, on Martin Luther King Day, Riley had 29 points, 12 rebounds and five blocked shots. 
Following the victories, both Connecticut and Notre Dame were ranked No. 1 in the nation for the first time in school history. 
In the 1995 Elite Eight, Connecticut beat Virginia 67­
63. Geno Auriemma, the Huskies coach, served as an assistant under Virginia's Debbie Hyan for several years in the early 1980's. 
In the 2001 Elite Eight, Notre Dame beat Vanderbilt 72-64. 
vt~foo~,"~ 
ll'U IOIIMC Ill Nl11 
The Student Activities Office is now acceptingapplications ror student employee positions ror the 200I -2002 acadelllic year. 
PQss/bte positkms available: 
24 HOUR LOUNGE MONITORS BALLROOM MONITORS INFORMATION DESK & BOX OFFICE ASSISTANTS LAFORTUNE BUILDING SET U1' CREW LAFORTUNE BUILDING MANAGERS ND CAKE SERVICE ND EX'PRESS SOUND TECHNICIANS STE'PAN CENTER MANAGERS STUDENT PROGRAMMERS STUDENT OFFICE ASSISTANTS 

Applications available outside the Student Activities Offlce, 3 f 5 laFortune or on-line at www.ncl.edursao/rorrns 
A'P'PL/CATION DEADLINE IS FRIDAY, APRIL 6. 

Muffet McGraw, the lrish's Connecticut head coach Geno 
coach, served as an assistant Auriemma had no excuses 
under Vanderbilt's Jim Foster after Notre Dame's 90-75 win 
for two years in the early on Friday night. 
1980's when both were at St. The Huskies entered the 
Joseph's. game without two All­
In the 1995 Final Four, American players. On Feb. 1, Connecticut defeated Stanford forward Svetlana Abrosimova 87-60. The Huskies limited tore ligaments in her left knee. Stanford's star guard Kate On March 6, in the Big East Starbird to two points in 26 tournament final against the minutes. Starbird shot 1-for-9 Irish, Shea Ralph tore the ACL from the field. including O-for-in her left knee. 3 on three-pointers. Both players missed the rest 
In the 2001 Final Four, Notre of the season after their 
Dame defeated Connecticut 90-injuries. 
75. The Irish limited "If' Shea and Svet were as big Connecticut's a reason as star guard you'd want to 
Diana Taurasi "I've been there a few make it. we 
to four points wouldn't
times. Anytime I go up 
in 31 minutes. have got here Taurasi shot there I get the whole Irish and we 1-for-15 from would have
fever going up there. 
the field, got blown out including O­from the 
Kelly Komara
for-11 on 3-beginning," pointers. Purdue guard Auriemma 
In the 1995 said. "We championship had it in us game, Connecticut trailed to win this game." Tennessee by six at halftime Since Abrosimova went and rebounded for a 70-64 down, Connecticut had a 15-0 win. record and entered the NCAA 
In the 2001 championship tournament as the nation's top game, Notre Dame trailed ranked team. Even without Purdue by six at halftime and Ralph, the Huskies beat their rebounded for a 68-66 win. first four NCAA opponents by 
Add the two teams' scores in an average of 40 points per the championship games of game. 1995 and 2001. During both On Friday night, Connecticut years, the total was 134 points. led Notre Dame 49-37 at half­
time and was up by 15 points 
early in the second half.
Komara and Saint Mary's 

"All year long we struggled
shorts 

with putting people away, just
Purdue guard Kelly Komara 

burying them like we used to in 
wears Saint Mary's shorts 

the old days," Auriemma said. underneath game shorts ­
"This team has such a laid­
gray with blue writing 

back personality trait. Every
''I've been there a few times," 

one of them. There's not one 
Komara said. "Anytime I go up type A personality left after you

there I get the whole Irish 

take away those two (Ralph
fever going up there." 
The reason Komara wears the shorts is that she is Belles' 

and Abrosimova). There's not ·one person out there who just wants to rip your throat out. They're all like 'Hey, isn't life great. We're up, shots go in, they don't go in. Life's a 
beach."' 
Shereka Wright and Vontez 
Duff 
The two best athletes in the 

Copperas Cove (Texas) High 
School Class of 2000 may turn 
out to be_ two of the best colle­
giate athletes in Indiana in the 
next couple years. 
Purdue freshman forward 

Shereka Wright has known 
current Notre Dame defensive 
back Vontez DulT since the sev­
enth grade. When the duo left 
Copperas Cove, they were local 
legends. 
As a senior. Wright led Copperas Cove to a No. 7 national ranking and was named the USA Today Player of the Year. Duff played run­ning back in high school. He rushed for 3,401 yards and 38 touchdowns during his last two seasons. 
Both players made immedi­
ate impacts in college. Wright, 
who started in last night's 
national championship game, 
averaged 9.7 points and 4.5 
rebounds this season. She was 
named to the Big Ten All­
Freshman Team. 
Duff made 77 special teams 
appearances in 2000 and was 
one of three freshman to cam 
a monogram. He is expected to 
compete for a starting corner­
back slot this spring. 
"(DufO was the stud in high school," Wright recalled. "Everybody was like 'Vontez this and Vontez that.· But he was a great person." 
Shutting down Tauras! 
She had been Connecticut's 
go-to player since late 
February. She was named the 
Big East Tournament Most 
Outstanding Player after a 14­
po int perf'ormance in the 
championship game. She was 
the Eastern Hegional's Most 
Outstanding Player and had 
been dubbed as one of the 
nation's top guards. 
But on Friday, Connecticut's Diana Taurasi had a dismal shooting night. She scored just four points in 31 minutes and shot 1-for-15 from the field, including O-for-11 on three­pointers. 
"No matter how carefree and how fearless she thinks she is, there still comes a point in time when you start to understand in your mind that you're letting the rest of' the team down." Auriemma said. "We all thought we were invincible when we were her age, some more invincible than others. Nobody is." 
Taurasi missed all seven of her attempts in the first hair but Connecticut still led by 12 points. In the second half, she continued to shoot, a strategy that baffled Auriemma. 
"The best way to get out of the slµmp was to pass the ball to (Connecticut center Kelly Schumacher)." Auriernma said. "It was killing them in the first half'." 
Although Taurasi struggled, guard Sue Bird was not placing the blame on her back court mate. 
"Diana has played so well in this Tournanrnnt," Bird said. "It's not all on her. We're a team. It's not her fault. Not by any means." 
coach Suzanne Smith's cousin. Smith was in St. Louis this 
Joan Morgan 
weekend. 'Tm sure she'll give me some advice," Komara said. "She's 

TONIGHT! watched Notre Dame practice and play throughout the year 
7:00 PM Carroll Auditorium, SMC 
so she's real familiar with 
Notre Dame. Hopefully she'll give me a few tips on how to guard them." 
No excuses 


Monday, April 2, 2001 The Observer . NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP EDITION page 17 
Irish defeat Huskies to advance to championship game 




By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
ST. LOUIS 

Niele Ivey gave new meaning to the phrase "Home is where the heart is" Friday. 
With the Irish trailing the Huskies by 12 heading into the locker room, St. Louis native Ivey refused to let the Irish go quietly into the night. 
The 5-foot-7 guard led the Irish with 21 points as Notre Dame doubled up Connecticut 53-26 in the second half to top the Huskies 90-75. The Irish. who were down by 16 points at various points in the opening half. set a record for the best comeback ever in a Final Four game. 
"I think there was a lot of praying going on in the stands at halftime," said Irish coach Muffet McGraw, who may have noticed Notre Dame President Father Edward Malloy in the bleachers. "We showed tremen­dous character that second half." 
Ivey would not allow her hometown fans see her team fall. She finished with three assists and five steals to go along with her team-high 21, marking only the second time this season Ivey surpassed the 20-point mark. 
Ivey suffered a sprained ankle with 5:47 remaining, but returned triumphantly with just over three minutes remaining. 
"My heart was in my throat. I had knots in my stomach," McGraw said. "I didn't want to move. I was sort of paralyzed on the sideline wanting to run out to comfort her but not wanting to, hoping she would get up and play. And when [ saw it wasn't her knee it was definitely a sigh of relief." 
Alicia Ratay added 20 for the Irish. while Ericka Haney fin­ished with 15 and a team-high 10 rebounds. 
The Irish hit a NCAA semifinal record eight of 11 attempts from the 3-point line. Ratay hit four treys. while Ivey converted on three. 
"To Notre Dame's credit. they made every big shot they had to make," said Connecticut head coach Geno Auriemma. "I don't think we can play any better than we did that first half. It kind of all fell apart for us in the second half." 
While things were falling apart for the Huskies, everything came together for the Irish. Notre Dame scored on 15 of their first 20 possessions to turn a 49-37 halftime deficit into a 72-65 lead with 8:59 remaining. 
"There was a lot said by the seniors," Riley said of the locker room during halftime. "We knew this could have been our last 
game and we wanted to make sure it wasn't." 
Connecticut freshman Diana Taurasi. the Huskies' leading scorer through most of the post­season, scored only four points on 1-of-15 shooting from the field. 
"Diana has played so well this tournament that when you have a night when you don't shoot well it's tough," said Connecticut point guard Sue Bird. "But it's not all on her. When she's not hitting her shots, someone else has to step up and make theirs." 
Bird, whose buzzer-beater gave Connecticut a 78-76 win over the Irish in the Big East Championship game, led Connecticut with 17 points. Center Kelly Schumacher added 12 points and a game-high 17 rebounds for the Huskies. 
While the fans from South Bend chanted "We are ND" and sang the fight song after the vic­tory, things hardly looked so good early. 
Notre Dame entered the locker room trailing the defending national champion Huskies 49­
37. Riley walked back out carry­ing two fouls. Ivey had three. 
A swarming Connecticut defense shut down Riley almost completely in the first half, limit­ing the National Player of the Year to only three points on two field goal attempts in just 12 minutes. 
"I really didn't feel like I played very well that first half," Riley said. "I put up a couple of bad shots. I needed to post up bigger." 
Riley came back with a vengeance in the second. She scored 15 points in the final 20 minutes to lead the Irish romp. Riley's line at games end: 18 points, 10 rebounds and five blocked shots. 
The Irish hung in with the Huskies until late in the opening half. Ivey took the ball cross­court to close the Connecticut lead at 28-22. 
After the a media timeout. the Irish returned to the floor with backup center Mandy Barksdale rather than Riley. who had two fouls. She would not return until after halftime. 
Even without Riley, the Irish stayed close. Two Alicia Ratay free-throws with 4:17 remain­ing closed the gap to 35-28. 
Then the Huskies went on a 15-5 run, leading by as many as 16 points with a minute remain­ing in the half. 
An Alicia Ratay 3-pointer with seven seconds remaining closed the gap to 49-37 at the half. 
The victory gave the Irish a 2­1 edge in the season series with the Huskies. Notre Dame topped Connecticut 92-76 on Jan. 15 in South Bend before Connecticut took the Big East Championship on March 6. 




j 
page 18 

The Observer . NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP Monday, April 2, 2001 
Students ride emotional rollercoaster watching Irish play 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Editor 
It was a half hour before game 
time, and something unusual 
was happening. 
In dorms across the campus. 
studcnL.:; were already securing 
their seats on the couches, a 
spectacle usually reserved for 
away football games. 
One by one, televisions were 
switched over to ESPN for the 
women's basketball national 
championship game. 
In small groups of three to 
live, people slowly trickled into 
LaFonune and gathered around 
one of four televisions. By the 
time the game started, about 
800 students were packed into 
the student center to watch 
Notre Dame take on Purdue. 
Student Activities set up a 12­
by-14 foot screen in the 
LaFortune Ballroom, where 
most of the students watched 
the game. But directly under­
neath the Ballroom, students 
pulled couches and chairs 
around the two big screen tele­
visions and piled as close to the 
television as possible. Further 
down the hallway, some stu­
dents had homework spread out 
over the tables as they watched 
the game. 
"It's fun to watch it in an envi­
ronment like this," said fresh­
man Brendan O'Connor. "It's 
almost like being at the game." 
Many students wore shirts 
with "Beat Purdue" written 
across their chests. The shirts, 
originally distributed for the reg­
ular season game against 
Purdue before winter break, 

found a second life Sunday 
night. 

Pre-game 
The ESPN telecast began. and fans in the upstairs LaFortune Ballroom cheered when the women's basketball team hud­dled around the free throw line to perform the Irish Jig. When the starting lineups were announced, the loudest cheers were for Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. 
"This is going to be a great game," said one student. 
But as the Irish fell behind by 12 points, everyone grew a little anxious. 
7:53 left in the first half 
Huth Hiley was fouled as she drove to the basket. The ball bounced on the rim and finally fell through, pulling the Irish to within three points. The crowd immediately shouted the loudest of the night so far. 
By now, the few studcnlc; who had brought homework had put it away in their backpacks. 
"I can't get anything done, it's just too loud," one student told her friend. 
Halftime 

"We're not playing too well, 
but I'm not discouraged yet," 
O'Connor said. After all, the 
Irish were only down six points 
-they had trailed by 16 against 
Connecticut and still rallied to 
win by 15. 

Some students stood up to 
head to Burger King or 
Tomassito's to grab some food 
before the second half started. 
But most stayed where they 
were, apparently afraid of losing 
their seat to someone standing 
in the back. 
17:01 left in the second half 

Kelley Siemon hit a short five­
foot jumper to give the Irish 
their first lead of·the evening, 
and Notre Dame fans stood up 
and celebrated. 

But the lead was short lived as 
Purdue rattled off eight unan­
swered points to retake the lead. 
Purdue's surge didn't shake the 
faith of the Irish faithful. 

"I know we're going to win. I just know it," one particular stu­dent said. 
8:49 left In the second half 

Riley hit a jumper, was fouled. and sunk the ensuing free throw -to the delight of those watch­ing in South Bend. 
"You can't handle the Huth!" 
one student sitting near the tele­
vision shouted. 
4:00 left In the second half 
Alicia Ratay drilled Notre Dame's first -and only -3­pointer of the night to tie the game at 62. As she shot the ball, students stood up, raised their hands, and exploded when the ball sailed through the net. It prompted foot-stomping in the Ballroom that could be heard down below on the lirst floor. 
"This is the most nerve-rack­ing experience of my life," said Brianne McNicholas. 
"It's so exciting," added Tara Dane. "Words can't describe it." 
5.8 seconds left in the second 
half 
The Player of the Year stood on the free-throw line with the scored tied at 66. She calmly shot the ball into the air, and as it swished through the net, the Lafortune Ballroom broke out into cheers. 
''I've never cared about women's basketball before in my life, and I have goose bumps," said freshman Adam Miglore. 
"This is as close to being reli­gious as I get," freshman Dan Brunner said. 
When the Purdue timeout was over, Riley stepped back up to the free throw line and scored her 28th point of the night. 



Across Lafortune, those gath­ered in attendance stood on their feet or climbed on top of chairs to get a clear glimpse of the television as Purdue drove down the court with one final chance to tie the game. 
The Boilermakers passed the ball around to their All­American, Kelly Douglas, who took an off-balance jumper from 15 feet away. 
The shot came up short. 

Lafortune exploded into cheers. Notre Dame had won the national championship. 
Post-game 
As Niele Ivey raced over to her teammates, arms in the air, stu­dents in Notre Dame high-lived each other and shouted hysteri­cally. 
"We're national champs! We're national champs!" several students shouted. 
The cheering continued for several minutes, and didn't sub­side until television cameras showed McGraw hugging University President Edward Malloy. 
As ESPN showed replays of Purdue's final possession, a few students began to sing the Fight Song. Soon, everyone in Lafortune ballroom was singing as loud as they could. 
Fittingly, the final words lo the song were "Onward to victory." 


Monday, April 2, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
KIDS! I'M STUNNED! I'VE NEVER SEEN THE SASEMEt-lT So SPoTLESS! 

CROSSWORD  HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
ACROSS 1 Affixed in a scrapbook, say 7 Julius Erving's nickname 10 Barbershop quartet part 14 _ Shriver, sister of J.F.K. 15 Fish eggs 16 Navel buildup? 17 Announce officially 19 Nabisco cookie 20 Toothed tool 21 Grass cutter with zip 23 Sympathetic pity 26Astound  36 Sunup 37Wanders 38 Capital on a fjord 42 Winnie-the· Pooh's donkey friend 44 Run, as colors 45 Opposite ENE 48 Club resort 49 Nation famous for tulips 51 Video game company 53 Letterman's nightly list 54 What the answer to each  64 "Tres _. ("very well," in Paris) 65 Fuss 66 Secretary General before Kurt Waldheim 67 Memo starter 68 Family room 69 Bandleader Tito DOWN 1 Livens (up) 2 Atmosphere 3 Post-blizzard vehicle 4 Dickens's Tiny 5 Old French coin  CELEBRITIES BORN ON IBIS DAY: Liza Minnelli, James Taylor, Darryl Strawberry, Andrew Young, Courtney B. Vance Happy Birthday: If you plan your actions wisely this year, the rest will be history. Personal rela­tionships may suffer if you spend too much time chasing after the all-mighty dollar. You should try to find a balance and protect what you already have. Push the envelop, and you may lose out where you least expect. Your numbers:5,19,22,25,34,37 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Romantic encounters will be stressful, especially if you have more than one on the go. Mixing business with pleasure might be fun, but highly dangerous as  involved in competitive sports You need a cha!!erige. 0000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) Don't take chances while operat ing machinery or equipment. Yoi will be misunderstood if yot aren't precise in your explana tions to others. 000 LIBRA (Sept. 23•0ct. 22) Love can be hot as long as yot avoid getting trapped in a one­sided relationship. You will bi lazy and lack discipline when i: comes to your fitness program Push yourself a Iittle harder il you don't want to gain bad those extra pounds. 000 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Concentrate on your domestic chores before your family com• plains about your lack of helpful• ness. You may feel a little unde1  
27 Shoulder muscle italicized clue is 29 Garage contents 57 Sheep's cry 31 "You betcha!" 60 Florence's river 32 Souped-up 61 "The Battleship engine sound Potemkin" 33 April 1 prankster director ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  6 Noted oracle site 7 Doesn't stand pat 8 Memorization method 9 Raspberry 10 Flower 11 Vent 12 Blessed event? 13 Mall units  Puule by Peter Gonion  well. You must make some seri• ous choices before you ruin your reputation. 000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your hard work will pay off. You should feel satisfied and confident about your professional direction Don't let negative friends or relatives cause you to question yourself or your goals. 000 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can get into those hobbies  the weather. An early evening should help rejuvenate you. 000 SAGfITARIUS (Nov. .22-0ec 21}. You can meet people with clout if you attend intellectual events. Don't exaggerate about your tal­ents. You may find yourself embarrassed.0000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Erratic behavior by you or your partner will lead to sudden changes in your living arrange•  
E V I L T W I R U S S  ":":'t--:+.:::t-=-r.:-1  18 What a gourmet enjoys 22 Mature filly 24 Make amends (for) 25 Male turkey  39 Actor in "Patriot Games"and "GoldenEye" 40 Spy novelist Deighton 41 Peculiar  50 Cry of the police while pounding a door 52 River of Lyon 53 1980's-90's boxing champ  56 Seek's opposite 58 "_Too Proud to Beg" (1966 hit) 59 Poker stake 62 R-V link  you've been thinking about. One of them may tum into a lucrative proposition. You can make per­sonal changes that will enhance your appearance. 00000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): Deception is apparent when deal­ing with family or children. You  ments. Consider going for profes­sional help if you wish to improve this union 00 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20.Feb. 18): Opportunities for financial gains are prominent. Lady Luck is with you, and your insight in making the right choices will be advanta­ 
fonnat 28 Pitcher's stat 29 "Lassie_  43 Give off 44 Lunch sandwich, tor short  55 Use a book 63 "_end" Answers to any three clues in this puzzle  may want to put some energy into beautifying your living quarters. Make everyone pitch in. 000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel  geous. 00000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't put off a doctor's appoint­ment just because you are feeling  
N A  R D  (1943 film) 34 Rowing need  45 Sushi condiment 46 Recipe direction  are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95t per minute). Annual subscriptions are available tor the  and romance will go hand in hand. Your warm heart will attract many new acquaintances. Get  a little better. Stress is probably at the root of your problem. Rest will be necessary. 000  
0 S A WES  O L BS  L O O N E I STER  35 Actress Esther 37Deliloaf  47 Ring cycle composer  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7-ACROSS.  Birthday Baby: You've got a smart way of doing things and will amaze onlookers with your intuition and inventive imagination Once you prove yourselfto others, you will have loyal and long-lasting relationships.  
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com,  

eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


::0

TUetpl3 "TI 
)> 
z 
A

Notre "Datv\e 
9 
fT1 
n 
A 
(J) )>

~all State -I 0 C 
s 

rr 
0:: 

<( ...,.q .,. 
s: 

~ Notre "Danne 
fT1 9
n 
~ 
ru 

I­

0 <( Dayton 
:J 
~ 




Gel the broom out 
The Notre Dame baseball team completed a three-game sweep ofthe Seton Hall Pirates this weekend at Frank Eck Stadium. 
PORTS 
page 12 


OTHE 


Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw hoists the National Championship trophy at the Savvis Center in St. Louis following Notre Dame's 68-66 victory over Purdue. McGraw, the AP coach of year, led the Irish to their first-ever national title. 
National Champions 
. Riley's two free throws with 5.8 seconds seals win 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 

Spom Editor 
ST. LOUIS 

Huth Riley hit the two most important free throws of her life to give Notre Dame a 68-66 victory over state rival Purdue and its first ever women's bas­ketball national championship. 
"I can't describe it," said Irish coach Muffct McGraw. ·•1 don't think I've ever been this excited in my life." 
Riley reflected on her magi­cal moment like the quintes­sential Indiana girl. She led the Irish with 28 points and 14 rebounds in the game to go along with a 10-of-14 perfor­mance from the free throw line and seven blocked shots. 
"I talked all the time about the movie Hoosiers and that was my inspiration," Riley said. "All those free throws you practice for this moment." 
Her coach was equally impressed. 
"We have been a second half team all tournament long," McGraw said. "For Ruth to make those two free throws for us to come back from halftime deficits two times in the Final Four -I can't say enough about this team." 
The Irish overcame a 12­point deficit in their semifinal win against Connecticut. 
With four minutes remain­ing, Irish 3-point specialist Alicia Ratay nailed Notre Dame's first trey of the night to tie the game at 62. 
"It was such a big shot for 
see CHAMPS/page I 4 
. Muffet and Her Miracles earn first­ever national title 

ST. LOUIS She should retire. Right here. atop the podium 
near the middle of the Savvis 
Center court, Muffet McGraw 
should 
grab the 
ESPN 
micro­
phone 
from 
Michele 
Tafoya, 
wave at 
the Notre 
Dame 
cheering 
section 
and pro­
claim, "I 
quit. It can't get any better than this. The basketball portion of my life has reached its peak." 


An absurd suggestion? 
Without a doubt. 
But wouldn't that be an 
appropriate climax to this wacky season -a live and a half month odyssey from a lonely Oct. 15 practice to a net-cutting ceremony in front of thousands? 
Move over Gip. Move over Rock. Move over Moose. Make room for Muffet and Her Miracles. 
(Notice the capital H. Appropriate for this Catholic school. Fathers Hesburgh, Joyce, Cavanaugh and Sorin would be proud.) 
Think Bob Davie and Mike Brey, who were both in atten­dance, are a little jealous? 

"Career-wise, I think it [a national title] is a nice thing to 
have on your resume," McGraw said. It's not a bad thing to have in your memories, either. 
Whoever scheduled "Hoosiers" on ESPN Classic right before Notre Dame­Purdue on the mother station should be given a raise this morning. 
An Indiana farm girl knock­ing down two game-winning free throws for a title? 
Only thing missing was Gene Hackman and Dennis I-lopper. 
And Ruth Riley was more Jimmy Chitwood than Ollie McClellan. 
"Somebody asked me what my favorite part of that movie was and I said, 'wherr Ollie hit those two free throws,"' Riley said. "I didn't have to under hand them but ... " 
see IRISH/page 15 

Softball at Indiana at Baylor at Purdue Wednesday, 3 p.m. Friday, 9 p.m.
SPORTS 
Women's LacrosseTuesday, 2 p.m. 
vs Connecticut
ATA 
Sunday, I p.m.

Softball Men's Lac"rosseBaseball vs. Albion vs. Denvervs. Ball State 
GLANCE e Ct • 
Wednesday, 3:30 p.m. Saturday 4:30 p.m. 
Tuesday, 5:05 p.m. 






