
University denies NDOutreach recognition
PARTLY 

Wednesday

SUNNY 

One NDOutreach leader speaks out about the group's past and its dim 

OCTOBER 3,

future on·campus. 
HIGH 74° 
2001

Viewpoint . page 9 
LOW 52° 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 27 . HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 




Terrorist attacks influence Malloy faculty -address 
By JASON McFARLEY News Editor 
In his annual address to faculty Tuesday, a practical Father Edward Malloy, University president, urged professors to be thoughtful of recent terrorist acts but to get about the busi­ness of planning Notre Dame's future following the Sept. 11 attacks. 
"I'm very proud of our approach," Malloy said, referring to campus response to tragedies in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania. "It was sensitive. It was well-done." 

During Malloy's 50-minute speech, he recounted immediate steps the University took in the wake of the national crisis -cancelling classes, declaring Sept. 11 a day of prayer and organizing a Mass on South Quad. 
University officials also planned panel discussions of the attacks, post­poned the Notre Dame-Purdue football game originally scheduled for Sept. 15 and collected more than $350,000 for New York relief efforts. 
"What I would hope can happen here in the coming weeks and months is that we can recognize more appropri­ate ways to respond thoughtfully," said Malloy, who last week was in Washington twice on business. "I hope that we can have a conversation that's ongoing." 
The president advised faculty mem­bers to encourage in their classrooms dialogue about subjects connected to the attacks: world religions, especially Islamic fundamentalism; history ofter­rorism; urban architecture; city plan­ning; transportation; news media; gov­ernmental leadership; immigration; cultural identity; U.S. economic policy 

Running for relief 

and human rights issues. 
"I would suggest that this is a place to talk about fundamental questions," Malloy said, proposing that the attacks have spurred inquiries into the mean­ings of life, death and after-life and evil. 
At the same time. Malloy asked the faculty to sort through the tragedy and be conscious of future academic and fund-raising initiatives at the school. 
He described the University's current strategic plan and implored the 
see MALLOY/page 6 

Minister shares country's image 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO News Writer 
It is important for El Salvador to build a posi­tive image of itself as a young democracy and thriving country, accord­ing to Maria Eugenia Brizuela de Avila, El Salvador's minister of for­eign affairs. 
Brizuela de Avila spoke as a Kellogg Institute speaker Tuesday at Notre Dame. 
rural clinics, reduced illit­eracy by 6 percent, and has succeeded in keeping more and more children in school. 
"President Flores is con­vinced that the only way to combat poverty is by generating jobs," she said. Programs such as these also help to boost El Salvador's open-market economy. According to leading financial publica­tions. the nation has expe­rienced the highest 

T h e economic
"President Flores is 
national growth
convinced that the 
govern­and stabili­ment of only way to combat ty in 
E l poverty is by Central 
Salvador America
generating jobs.,, 
signed during peace recent accords Maria Eugenia Brizuela y e a r s 10 years w .h i I e
de Avila 

ago, end­maintain­ing a 12-Minister of ing low 
year long foreign affairs, El Salvador inflation. 
• Oktoberfest race collects $2,150 for Disaster Relief 

Fund 
By KATIE RAND News Writer 
Running to support the fami­lies of desceased and injured firefighters in New York City, 320 athletes, coaches and students from Saint See Also 
Mary's and "N.Y. victims Notre Dame 
receive help
competed in the 2001 from the littlest Oktoberfest 

hands" 
Run/Walk 

page4
Thursday. 
The event raised $2,150 for the New York Firefighers 911 Disaster Relief Fund, a fund set up to help the families of firefighters injured or killed in Sept.11's tragedies. The event. sponsored by the Saint Mary's Athletic and Recreation department, consisted of a 1.5 mile walk and SK run, and required each individual to give a minimum $5 pledge to com­pete. 

"In the initial stages we were expecting more participants, but with the time restrictions we had in planning, we were very pleased with the turnout," said Janel Miller, Oktoberfest chair­woman. 
"Support for the 911 Fund has been the thought since the day after our lives changed," said Gregg Petcoff, who began the race with Howard Buchanon, fire chief for the South Bend fire department. "Right now you're doing a lot tQ help the people of New York City." 
"If the people of New York knew what you were doing right now, they would greatly appreci­ate it. We as firefighters really, really appreciate what you're doing too. We know how it feels to leave home every day not knowing if you'll be back," Buchanon said to the competi­tors. 
Buchanon and about 10 other local firefighters came to support the race, bringing with them three fire trucks for display. Buchanon used his siren as the 
see OKTOBERFEST/page 6 

NOREEN GILLESPIE/The Observer 
Dave Barstis, Saint Mary's cross country coach, crossed the finish line first at the Oktoberfest race Thursday (above left). A firefighter later thanks a young volunteer for helping with the disaster relief 
bloody civil war, in which 75,000 people perished, she said. The armed forces have since been reorganized to form an army of only 10,000 members for the national defense of its territorial borders and against nat­ural catastrophes such as last January and February's earthquakes. 
Social and political con­ditions have helped to build this image. The young president of El Salvador, Francisco Flores and his administra­tion's comprehensive five­year plan, which started in 1999. so far has decreased poverty by 20 percent, dramatically increased the number of E l 
Salvador has negotiated or pro­posed free trade agree­ments with various coun­tries and is participating in the Plan Puebla­Panama, which was pro­posed by Mexico and incorporates it and seven Central American coun­tries with peoples of Mayan ancestry to pro­mote economic develop­ment in the region. 
Politically, El Salvador worked on an Inter­American Democratic Charter in Lima, Peru on Sept. 11. The Ministry of foreign affairs outlined five spheres where Salvadorian foreign policy 
see MINISTERlpage 6 


Wednesday, October 3, 2001

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Lessons in skillful 

stealing 
I've had CD players stolen from my car twice in the past year. The first of these unfortunate inci­dents occurred during October of 2000 in Philadelphia. It was repeated three weeks ago here in South Bend, outside my off-campus residence. Patrick Kelly But it is not the fact that a CD player was stolen on two separate occasions that 
Assistant 
I find most irksome. 
Viewpoint
I'm fully aware that the 
Editor
theft of CD players from 
cars is a fact of life for a 
great number of people. 
And seeing as I have been granted the socio-eco­
nomic status, through no doing of my own, that 
enables me to buy not one buy two CD players for 
my car in a single year, I find it hard to be down­
trodden by these occurrences. Furthermore, if the 
people stealing my material possessions find it 
necessary to go to such extreme measures not 
simply to obtain said possessions for themselves, 
but to pawn off these luxuries for cash. then 
maybe it is life's way of evening out what the gov­
ernment cannot. So let it be stated that I am not 
upset simply because strangers absconded with 
my stereo on two occasions. 
No, what upsets me mosts how these so•called criminals carried out their deed here in South Bend. It was in stark contrast to the way in which the fine thieves in Philadelphia went about the same task. 
11 months ago, I returned to my car parked a few blocks from the University of Pennsylvania to find no exterior damage at all. The lock had been skillfully picked from the outside and the stereo was removed neatly from its console, resulting in no other damage to the interior of the car. The car door was even locked upon my return, to ensure that nothing else would be taken from my vehicle (such as the bags of clothing in my back seat). These courteous thieves took what they could use and went on their way, all the while treating my vehicle and my other possessions with the utmost respect. 
Now let's compare this with what happened three weeks ago in South Bend. One fine September morning my girlfriend and I walked groggily out to my car to drive to campus, and what did we find? A shattered window, broken by a maliciously wielded wrench that still lay on the passenger seat. The stereo console was snapped off its hinges and the once proud dashboard was left sagging sadly three inches from where it once held dominion. Bloodstains marred the plastic dash from the steering wheel to the passenger side window and were interspersed with shards of glass to form a gruesome, post-modern pot­pourri. We looked on in horror at this senseless act of low quality, talentless thievery. 
I realize that CD players will be stolen. But every day as I drive around and look at the gap­ing hole directly above my cup holders, the weary dash spilling ever downward like the branches of a willow tree,· I wonder why they had to be so incompetent. Why they were so amateurish in their crime. And I turn to my girlfriend, who was present at both robberies, and I say, "Remember those guys in Philadelphia?" a smile slowly spreading over my face. And she turns to me, • mirroring my smile with one of her own, and says, "Yeah, they were good. If only they all could be that good." 
Contact Patrick Kelly at Kelly.134@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
In Tuesday's Observer, a page one Board ofGovernance photo incorrectly identified Lily Morales as Meghan Meyer. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righcs are reserved. 

STUDENT SENATE/THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Student Senate: 
The following items are on the agenda for tonight's Student Senate meeting. The meeting will be held on Wednesday at 6 p.m. on the second floor of Lafortune. 
1. 
State of the Student Union Address by student body president Brooke Norton 

2. Freshmen Orientation 

3. 
Senators holding discussion forums in the din­ing halls 


Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 


Senator seeks to suspend new student visas 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
In the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, one of the U.S. Senate's lead­ing voices has decided to seek a six­month moratorium on the issuance of new student visas to international students seeking to study in the United States. 
Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) announced late last week that she would introduce legislation to reform the U.S. student visa program which currently is easily abused, she said. She noted that a number of the sus• pected terrorists in the Sept. 11 attacks were in the United States on student visas even though they never attended the schools in which they were supposedly enrolled. 
"Today, there is little scrutiny given to those who claim to be foreign stu• 
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 
University addresses plagiarism 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
The University of Virginia Honor Committee has dealt with 55 of the 145 plagiarism cases initiated by Physics Prof. Louis Bloomfield beginning in April 2001. But, according to statistics released Monday, the Committee still faces nearly 90 that Committee mem­bers hope to have investigated by winter break. "I wish it were going faster," Committee Chairman Thomas Hall said of the process. So far, the Committee has held two trials related to the Bloomfield cases and delivered two guilty verdicts. One of these trials took place in late June and the other in mid-September. Four students also have left the University admitting guilt. "The most restricting factor is the level of coop­eration of the students involved," Hall said. Some of the involved students are abroad, some have trans­ferred and some are refusing to communicate with the Committee's support officers, vice chairman for Investigations Cara Coolbaughsaid. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather• forecast 
for daytime conditions 
and high temperatures 


Thursd y a 
''''\. 

Friday I I Q, f ,,. : 
a ~ .·.·z,j •...·· ·j
Saturd~y 

''"' ·-


Sund ~ , 
~r 

Mon ~ 
, ~ . ~i®w ,
) t.,. . 
,.../···"' 


Q,~-~Q,<:@Qo~~ 
Showers T•storms Rain Aurries Snow Ice Sunny Pr. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via .---r..i,,,... a,-,,,,;c.,-, 

intended to allow the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) to modernize its procedures and increase its scrutiny of student visa applicants. Feinstein would require that new visas only be granted to those undergoing much more exten­sive background checks, including fingerprinting. 
"I believe that we need a tempo­rary six-month moratorium on the student visa program to give the INS time to remedy the many problems in the system," Feinstein said. 
But Harvard University officials said that such a plan is highly flawed. 
Kevin Casey, Harvard's senior director of federal and state rela­tions, noted that student visas account for less than 2 percent of all Feinstein's moratorium proposal is visas issued. 
DUKE UNIVERSITY 

Duke profs cite racial tension 
DURHAM, N.C. 

Despite Duke University's prominent attempts to recruit and retain black faculty members. some who have recently left Duke attribute their departure in part to racial tension. Administrators have long said that the hiring of black professors is a priority, but they cite sever.al challenges to that goal, including competi­tion with other universities and the failure of many professors to gain tenure. Although administrators also acknowledge problems with racial climate, some facul­ty members say the University has overlooked the diffi­culties of everyday discrimination and the unique demands made of minorities. Monica Green, associate professor of history, said a lack of research support and a poor racial climate have convinced her to leave the University. "I think most of it is extremely subtle, and it's not articulated. It adds up and creates a cli­mate where one feels valued or one doesn't feel val­ued," said Green, who is black. 
NATIONAL WEATHER. 
The AccuWeathere forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 3. 
Os 
.................. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY
0 2001 AccuWNlher Inc. 
PrHan: 

D . [21 D D.
® © . .
High Low Showe.-e R•ln T-olormo Flurrlooo Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy \,lo ""'"'°"led-
Atlanta 82 57 Las Vegas 96 70 Portland 81 49 Baltimore 82 57 Memphis 86 62 Sacramento 96 54 Boston 75 61 Milwaukee 66 50 St Louis 87 54 Chicago 73 52 New York 78 61 Tampa 85 66 Houston 82 68 Philadelphia 81 61 Washington DC 83 61 
Thursday: 

Information Session Social Concern Seminar, Boarder session, 7:30-8 p.m. at the CSC 
Friday: 
Pep Rally for Notre Dame football game against Pitt, J.A.C.C. facility beginning at 
6:30 p.m. 
Wednesday, October 3, 2001 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Parties team up for mailed ballots 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
With several important elections quickly approaching, College Republicans and Democrats are teaming up to encourage the use of absentee ballots. 
With few exceptions, nearly all jurisdictions in the country allow students to mail their ballots in advance of an election. 
Political races around the country will be decided this fall, including some high-profile contests. The gover­nors' seats in New Jersey and Virginia are up for grabs, as is the post of mayor in many cities. New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani continues to remain the subject of speculation as to his plans for the coming months. Some observers have suggested he may try legal maneuvers to obtain a third term, despite term limits. Mayoral races in Atlanta and Houston will also be decided along with countless local elections for school boards, city 
. councils and utility districts. Though races are spread far and wide, they are also here in Notre Dame's backyard. Due to redistricting fol­lowing the 2000 Census, elections must be held to fill newly created seats. Tim Roemer, the Democrat United States Representative who narrowly defeated Republican Chris Chocola last fall, is not seeking re­election. Chocola is not expected to face a serious chal­lenger in the primary, but the Democratic slate is much more crowded. South Bend Common Council attorney Kathy Cekanski Farrand, former U.S. Rep. Jill Long Thompson, state Sen. William Alexa and former con­gressional aide Mark Meissner have all declared their candidacy. Representatives from the College Democrats and College Republicans will be at North and South Dining Halls today from 11-2, and 5-8, helping students who wish to exercise their right to vote. "I can't think of a better time to vote and take pride in the freedoms we enjoy in America," College Republican vice president Trip Foley said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti. I@nd.edu. 

SISTAR expandS students' minds 
Continued research is needed person can be emancipoated but
By SARAH NESTOR 
because not all results were also how that one person as a 
News Writer 
mached predictions. Eberly and community can be emancipated. 
Cederquist strongly recommened "The SISTAR Program is a great 
Participants of the summer 2001 the SISTAR Program way to 
student independent study and as it allowed them to expand your
"Not only does the 
research program gave presenta­buy needed supplies mind because tions on their work last evening. and lab materials. student benefit from the you chose The presentations were a part of Lilly Morales and f acuity member, but the your project Saint Mary's Pride Week and Jeffrey Jacob used and the read­
faculty member benefits 
showcased the academic talent of their artistic abilities ing and how faculty and students. to create a poetry from the student.,, to go about it. Hayley Dawson and professor and music collabora­It gives you Linda Berdayes worked together tion, "Breathing lots of food
Patrick White 
analyzing different media pro­Against a Silent for thought,"
director of Saint Mary's Center
grams. Dawson worked at home, World." Jacob's initi­Blair said. 
in Texas, on her project "Mass ated the project and for Academic Innovation The SISTAR Media Consolidation: A Case Study asked the English Programof 'The Dallas Morning News,"' department for a offers a grant while Berdyaes worked in South reccomended student. to four students who work as Bend on her research into the "I was surprised when the junior colleagues with members of paranormal radio show hosted by English dpeaprtement asked me to faculty on research projects during Art Bell. Together they have creat­do this·. To me it's just a way to let the summer. The student receives ed their research project intitled, things out, writing on paper," a stipend of $3,000 plus free lodg­"Media and Public Discourse: Morales said. ing on campus. The SISTAR Narrative Diversity in the Era of Jacobs and Morales already gave Program is opeii to full-time facul­Media Consolidation." a free recital in which Morales ty and students in all disciplines. 
"It was an opportunity to not read her series of poems and Dr. This year written application only teach Hayley but to also learn Jacob's performed his composi-must be received in the Center for from her," tion, both entitled Academic Innovation by March 4, Berdayes "Breathing Against a 2002 at 5:00 p.m. Following the
"/t was an opportunity to
said. Silent World." application the SISTAR committee 
Angela not only teach Hayley but Alissa Blair and will interview the student and fac­Cederquist to also learn from her. " professor George ulty member to assess the project.and Kara Trey collaborated on Contact Patrick White for more Eberly col-the project information. · 
Linda Berdayes
1ab orated "Philosophy, "Not only does the student bene­together on Saint Mary's assistant professor Emancipation and fit from the faculty member, but the project, of communication the Latin American the faculty member benefits from "Activation Condition." the student. It's just not something 0 f They choose to that stops at the end of the sum­Transgenic Mouse Macrophages: focus on the country of El Salvador mer, the work will go on," White Which Genes are critical for Killing and through the grant were able to said. Bacteria?" Cederquist used cul­plan a trip and visited this pasttured mouse cells to test the summer. Blair focused on the macrophages' ability to kill bacte­Chrisitan community in El 
Contact Sarah Nestor at
ria tested by determining the num­Salvador and the idea of how each 
nest9877@saintmarys.edu
ber of bacteria still alive. 

Having trouble finding The London Program? Our office is now in 153 Hurley Hall 
Apply for 
Fall 2002 and Spring 2003 
Visit our web site Paper applications can be picked up at 8:00 to 12:00am www.nd.edu/-londonpr 1 :00 to 5:00pm 153 Hurley Hall 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 3, 200 I 
N.Y. victims receive help from the littlest hands 
. Children work to understand tragedy through volunteer effort 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE News Writer 
When his mother tries to explain the tragedies at the World Trade Center and Washington, D.C. to him, Collin Junk listens carefully. 
But if you ask him what happened in New York, he doesn't remember much. He can tell you that airplanes crashed into buildings. He can tell you that the buildings fell. He knows that people died, but he doesn't know why. 
"I don't know," he continually replies, even though he's talked about the tragedies in school and with his mom. 
But what he does know is that there are people in trouble, and he wanted to help. So Junk, 7, along with nine friends from his neighborhood, teamed up to be volunteers at Saint Mary's Oktoberfest Run/Walk Tuesday, where runners and walkers were competing to raise money for the families of injured and deceased firefighters in New York City. 
They handed out cups of water to heavy­breathing and sweat-drenched competitors, and cheered loudly to encourage the athletes to the finish. They decorated their station in red, white and blue crepe paper and balloons. Some even showed up in American flag T­shirts. And while the kids, ranging in age from 4 to 10, may not understand everything about Sept. 11, they took their jobs very seriously. 
Screaming "Water! Water! .. at pass­ing competitors, they made sure any­one who wanted refreshments wasn't mis.5ed. 
'They said they wanted to do some­thing to help," said Barb Westra, a secretary in the Modern Languages department ~t Saint Mary's, who organized the effort after hearing about a need for volunteers. "I saw the advertisements and this was something that everyone could do." 

Westra's two children, Nicole, 9 and Mitch, 5, asked her what they could do to help after seeing the tragedies in the newspaper and on television. Oose to a month after the terrorist attacks, her children are still asking questions, trying to understand something that many adults don 'tcomprehend. 
"We've had to explain what happened at home, and we say prayers for the families at night," Westra said. "My son will ask ques­tions out of the blue a couple of times a week about it ... you just have to explain it on their age level, and not go into too much detail." 
Explaining the terrorist attacks has also been a challenge in the Keywood house. Dee and her son Josh, 7, have talked about what the tragedies mean several times. 
"I've just told him that some really bad peo­ple don't know how to deal with their anger by talking, and they deal with it by violence," Dee said. 
Volunteering was a way to help her son understand the attacks, and also see why coming together as a community -and a nation -is important. 
"They know about the heroes that died, but when they see [their parents] involved in things like this, they want to help, too," she said. 
But some kids, like Jenna-Simon, 9, know exactly what happened on Sept.11, and can recount the events in sequence. 
Simon watched the coverage all day in her 


create@screenb/ast.cam 
Change me. Crop me. Control me. Manipulate me any way you want. With the Screenblast Creation Suite'" of editing tools and personal Stash,"' you're notjust a viewer, 
you're a creator. Now get busy. 
. 

third grade classroom. She remembers the questions stu­dents asked her teacher as they watched the towers fall on televi­sion. 
'They asked if a lot of firemen died," Simon said. "[My teacher] said probably ... they were run­ning up the stairs to save the people and the building explod­ed." 
Simon, who had one aunt who worked in the Trade Center and another who lived a mile away, said both of her relatives were safe. She knows, though, that there were people who weren't. 
"It's scary," she said. But she's hoping her volunteer efforts will make a difference. "Maybe the money can buy medicine ... or stretchers to put the people on," she said. 
Standing amid a pile of dis­carded yellow water cups, deflat­ed balloons and water-drenched tablecloths, the group walked away from their station pretty proud ofthemselves. 
And even if they don't have all 

the answers, the volunteer team did get one littlest volunteers. 
reward Tuesday. Straggling behind the last runner, the kids arrived back at Angela Athletic Facility and were greeted with high Contact Noreen Gillespie at fives from the South Bend fire department, gill0843@saintmarys.edu 
-'"\ \ 
NOREEN GILLESPIE/The Observer Mitch Westra, 5, carries water for runners In Oktoberfest. Ten youth volunteers helped at the event Tuesday. 
waiting at the course's end to congratulate the 
289-5080 1357 N. lrt1mV1lt1d Dr.
,------, ,------·
I I I
,10% off, ~26
I I 

' Aveda 1 : Cut & : 1 I Retail 1 I , Style , 
I I , I._ ______ ,I 
L .... •--•J 
\ Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us.
) 

1-· You'll be pleased with the quality 
~ and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
we hoye to see you soM1. 
,------, ,------, ,------,
I I I I I I I fc59 I I ~15 I I ~69 I 
1Co or, Cut 1 1 1Hilite, Cuti
' Men's

1 &Style 1 I I 1 and 1 
I I

: 1Process : HC 1 Style 1 
I I I I

·------' ·------· "------ia 
Valid with the following stylists only:  NEW  
Sarah, Vicki, Karol,Nechole, &Mirance  CLIENTS  
Must be presented to Receptionist  ONLY  
before services are performed (Certain restrictions apply)  oier Exyim'io/10/01  

Not valid for spiral perms, long or tinted hair add >10. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. ATRIA SALON reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. 

October 9, 2001 
7:30 pm Moreau Little Theatre 
..........,....,.0
,~~!!­
~"'°"''O.AMI", IN 

For ticket information, contact the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 284-4626 

t, 

ATION 
Wednesday, October 3rd, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Blair tells Taliban it faces war: 
Prime Minister Tony Blair declared that Osama bin Laden was clearly responsible for the terrorist attacks on the United States and challenged the Taliban regime in Afghanistan to give him up or "face the consequences." "I say to the Taliban: surrender the terrorists, or surrender power," said a stern Blair, speak­ing to a noisily supportive crowd at the Labor Party's annual conference. 
. 
2 Israelis killed in attack: Two Israelis were killed when a militant Palestinian gun­man broke iqto a Jewish settlement in the Gaza Strip on Tuesday night and seized a house, the army said. The attacker crossed into the Alei Sinai settlement on the northern tip of the Gaza Strip, shooting at several resi­dents and soldiers before entering the home. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Canada pledges to protect border: 
Attorney General John Ashcroft and Canadian Solicitor General Lawrence MacAuley pledged cooperation Tuesday in protecting their countries' 4,000·mile bor­der from international terrorists. "Any time there are borders that are that open and that substantial there are risks," Ashcroft said in an appearance with MacAuley, who has been appointed to a Cabinet-level com­mission to combat terrorism in Canada. 
Justices hear inmate rights case: 
The Supreme Court heard arguments today on whether inmates in a federal prison or detention center run by a private contractor can sue the company for violating their con­stitutional rights. The case has implications beyond prisons, given the growing trend toward the privatizing of many traditional government functions. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Man arrested for burning flag: An Indiana man accused of burning an American flag behind his home has been arrested, despite rulings from the U.S. Supreme Court that have said flag-burning is an exercise of free speech. David Stout, 49, of Noblesville was charged Monday with flag desecration and resisting law enforcement. He was being held Tuesday at the Hamilton County Jail on a $9,000 bond. Stout was arrested Sunday after police found him lying beside a burning flag in an alley behind his home. 
l\ilarket Watch October 2 ~ 
Dow 
8,950.59 +113.76 
Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 169 NIA 
A:MEX: 813.74 -+434 NASDAQ: 1,492.33 +11.87 NYSE: 548.82 -+f>.Tl S&P 500: 1,051.33 +1278 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3. 53 -0.42 11.48 NASDAQ 100 INDX (QQQ) +0.31 -tfl.09 28.82 METROMEDIA FIBE (MFNX) +115.15 -tfl.38 0.71 INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.35 -0.47 19.54 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -1. 48 -0.12 8.01 
Rumsfeld visits Middle East 
will visit and whom he will meet, Fleischer, told reporters that
Associated Press 
were still being arranged this after­Rumsfeld would share information 
WASHINGTON noon. The secretary is expected to and consult with friends. Asked why 
Defense Secretary Donald be in the Middle East about three Bush chose to send Rumsfeld to the Rumsfeld will leave for the Middle days. region, Fleischer replied, "Because East this evening for discussions Given that he is traveling to a he's the appropriate person to go." with political and military leaders, region that is seve11 to eight hours The United States has a strong the Pentagon said today. ahead of Eastern time, and that he military presence in Saudi Arabia 
Rumsfeld is traveling at the will be there only a few days with and elsewhere in the Middle East. request of President Bush, a urgent business to conduct, American officials consider support Pentagon spokeswoman, Victoria Rumsfeld's trip would seem to be a for anti-terrorism activities in Clarke, said at a news briefing. grueling one. But the secretary, who Muslim countries vital if the United "This is to continue the consultations turned 69 in July, is a former college States is to defuse claims by sup­that have already started," she said. wrestler and naval aviator and is a porters of Osama bin Laden that 
She said the details of his itiner­man of considerable vigor. America is warring on Islam. ary, including which countries he The White House spokesman, Ari 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Faced with an economic deterioration that has accel­erated since the terrorist attacks last month, the Federal Reserve once again cut interest rates today by an expected half a percent­age point, to their lowest level since 1962. 
Today's rate cut was the ninth this year by the Fed. Perhaps more important, it was the second half-point cut since the attacks against the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on Sept. 11. 
The Fed lowered its target for the federal funds rate on overnight loans among banks to 2.5 percent, from 3-. percent. 
"The terrorist attacks have significantly height­ened uncertainty in an economy that was already weak," the Fed said in a statement. "Business and household spending as a consequence are being fur­ther damped. 
"Nonetheless, the long­term prospects for produc­tivity growth and the econo­my remain favorable and should become evident once the unusual forces restrain­ing demand abate," the cen­tral bank added. 
It said its policy-making Federal Open Market Committee "continues to believe that, against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the informa­tion currently available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weak­ness in the foreseeable future." 
The Fed also cut its dis­count rate on loans to banks from the Federal Reserve System to 2 percent, from 
2.5 percent. 
In response to the Fed's rate cuts, a number of banking companies ­including Bank of America, 
J.P. Morgan Chase, Bank One, Fleet Boston Financial and Wells Fargo -reduced their prime lending rates for their most credit-worthy customers to 5.5 percent, from 6 percent. 
Stock prices, which were slightly higher ahead of the Fed's announcement, ini­tially retreated this after­noon after the rate cut. But stocks later reversed direc­tion<; and closed with mod­erate gains. Prices of Treasury securities main­tained most of their earlier gains. 
Many Wall Street econo­mists said the Fed's actions seemed appropriate as part of a campaign to build confi­dence in the financial mar­kets and among consumers. 
------------------~,.--..-.,, ~ "'('-----~. --~-------....
~ 
page 6 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wed,nesday, October 3, 2001 
"All of these committees are intended to assist [strategic plan] work at the local
Malloy 

level," he said. "The primary work will 
continued from page 1 come from the colleges and various units. 
We want to make sure everyone -faculty, 
DeBartolo Hall audience to be part of the students, staff -has a chance to speak 
organizational project. out of their desires and aspirations." 
Every 10 years, the University reassesses Malloy called to faculty members' atten­
the plan, beginning with an internal tacti­tion other "sweeping, unresolved issues" 
cal process, according to Malloy. That that they can work on with strategic plan 
process leads to a report that the organizers. Among them were the future 
University forwards to North Central of campus libraries, University computing. 
Accreditation officials to maintain accred­graduate education and research, faculty 
ited status. population and Catholic 
The next step is for intellectual life. Notre Dame adminis­nWe want to make sure "[Work] has begun," Malloy trators to create a said. "I ask for your enthusi­
everyone -faculty.

fund-raising campaign astic support and contribu­plan and eventually a students, staff -has a tion." 
fund-raising event, chance to speak out of "We've puzzled, we've Malloy said. mourned and we've grieved,"
their desires an·d aspira­
A coordinating com­he said, reiterating campus
tions.,.

mittee will oversee the reaction to the terrorist strategic planning attacks. "I hope we can be as process begun this reflective as possible about
Malloy

year, the president what this means and about
Notre Dame president

said. The committee strategies for our future." includes several facul­ty members and key Notre Dame officers 
In other faculty address news:
Nathan Hatch. provost; Father Timothy Malloy credited increased financial aid

Scully, executive vice president; Father 

initiatives with this fall's over-capacity
Mark Poorman, vice president for Student 

first-year class. He said the sarrie trend
Affairs; Scott Malpass, vice president for 

was evident among graduate and profes­
finance and chief investment officer; and 

sional school enrollment and student
John Affleck-Graves, vice president and financial aid awards.

associate provost. 

The University president was pleasedHe said that committee will oversee the with the recent openings, renovations and
work of other committees dealing with ground-breakings for campus buildings.

four planning areas: curriculum, finance 

He restated Notre Dame officials' commit­
and fund raising, research priorities and 

ment to expand current law school and
challenges and future of higher education. 

engineering facilities and to construct aBy next October, the committees will 
campus hotel to replace the Morris Inn.
have enough compiled data to ultimately be presented to the Board of Trustees at 

Contact Jason McFarley at
the group's May 2003 meeting, according 

emcfarley. l@nd.edu.
to Malloy. 

Oktoberfest 
continued from page I 
official start for the race. 
Cross-country coach Dave Barstis crossed the finish line first, complet­ing the run injust under 19 minutes. 
In the walking division, Sara Martine, Erin Pilecki, Cathy Tindall, and Brandy Jans were the first four to cross the finish line. 
Those who would still like to donate to the 911 Disaster Relief Fund may do so at Angela Athletic Facility. Event T-shirts are also available for $5 at Angela. 
Contact Katie Rand at rand8903@saintmarys.edu. 

eral cooperation with the U.S., mul­tilateral cooperation with Europe,
Ministers 
and horizontal technical coopera­continued from page 1 tion between developing countries such as Honduras and Nicaragua, needed to take action: being in a strategic geographic 
. 
Defense of sovereignty and ter­location; ritorial integrity through diplomacy ''El Salvador visualizes Central 

. 
Positioning of American inte­the nation, at the gration as an international level, "El Salvador visualizes instrument for 


through an effi­Central American inte­the region's 
cient implementa­development,"
gration for the region's 
tion of its foreign Brizuela de policy development. ,. Avila said. 
. Negotiations "We are of international aware of the
Maria Eugenia Brizuela de
cooperation necessity of a
Avila

. Strengthening coherent foreign relations with Minister of policy, harmo­Salvadorian com­foreign affairs, El Salvador nized with the munities abroad new political by providing assis-and economic 
tance world order, and we need to 
. Contributing to employment respond to the new trends of glob­opportunities · alization," she said. 
El Salvador's foreign policy aims to advance national interest, she Contact Christina Cepero at said. El Salvador engages in bilat-ccepero@nd.edu. 

Student Governnient invites you to attend 
Stepping Stones: A Path to Understariding 
A discussion panel focusing on 
Religion 
Gender Issues 
Sexual Orientation 

When: Wednesday, October 3 
6:30-8:00 PM 
Where: Walsh Basement Food from Popeyes and Hacienda Mil be served 
4Wednesday, October 3, 2001 page 7
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
GSU highlights need for better insurance plans 
By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 
This month, representatives from the Graduate Student Union will meet with Notre Dame administration and mem­bers of the Board of Trustees to discuss health insurance. 
GSU president Gabriela Burgos, vice president Kishori Deshpande, and health care committee chairman Adrienne Minerick will present information on graduate student healthcare to 30 mem­bers of the board on Oct. 18. The GSU representatives plan to present an ideal graduate student health care plan and ask for a University subsidy to meet the difference in the cost of premiums between the current and ideal plan. 
They also intend to suggest the possi­bilities of treating graduate students as University employees so they will qualify for the better health insurance policy and grouping graduate students into regions including area schools in order to receive a lower rate. 
The GSU has spoken with faculty to gauge their support for changes in grad­uate student healthcare. 
"The faculty so far appears to be really supportive of us," Minerick said...A lot of them feel that to move Notre Dame to a more prestigious place we need to address the healthcare needs of gradu­ate students." 
Burgos, Deshpande and Minerick say they are looking for the opportunity to present their ideas before the board. 
"This is really important because our chances for subsidization ... are achiev­able," Burgos said. 
"The fact that we get an opportunity to speak in front of the Board of Trustees speaks of the support the administration has given us," said Deshpande. 

The group is preparing an oral presen­tation consisting of slides, information booklets, and videotaped t~stirnonials from Notre Dame graduate students. The GSU has also obtained data from The Chronicle for Higher Education that compares stipends and school coverage of health care premiums at 61 American institutions that they intend to present. 
"We had a person [at GSU Orientation] speak up and say they were told not to go to Notre Dame because of the health care provided," Minerick said. "We hope to convince [the board] that this is an issue important to take up." 
In other GSU news: 
. 
The GSU is continuing negotiations with OIT over this year's paper-rationing policy. Sameer Vijay, GSU information technology representative, does not feel that the 1000 sheet allowance is ade­quate for graduate students. Vijay will resign from his post after he completes this and other projects he is currently pursuing due to an increased academic workload. 

. 
The publicity and promotions com­mittee launched their corporate logo design contest. The contest is set to run until Oct. 31 and is open to all full time undergraduate and graduate students enrolled in Indiana colleges and univer­sities. The grand prize is a $150 cash prize. 

. 
The GSU began their meeting with a moment of silence to remember the tragedies ofSept. 11. 


"The events of Sept. 11 have clearly had an impact on all of us," Deshpande said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at 
thagard. l@nd.edu 

Broadway Theatre League Presents The New Musical••• 
October4-7 & 12-14, 2001 
For tickets and information Call 234-4044 Toll Free 1-877-315-1234 

Student, senior, and group discounts available for all performances. 
Morris Performing Arts Center 


Fellows find assistance 
Studies and the Institution for
. New office helps 
Scholarships in Liberal Arts. Althoughstudents with fellow­undergraduates from all the colleges ships and scholarships apply for the fellowships, the majority of 
the applicants are in the College of Arts and Letters.
By MOLLY HERBE The directorship of the new center 
News Writer 
received an endowment for the University from Daniel Flatley of Basking
Notr.e Dame has established a new Ridge, N.J. Flatley graduated from Notre office to assist undergraduate students Dame in 1975. Ile serves as a member 
and their faculty mentors in the applica­
for the advisory council for the 
tion for fellowships and scholarships, University's College of Arts and Letters. 
including the Marshall, Rhodes and 
"Through the generosity and vision of Fulbright. 
The Office of Undergraduate and Post­Baccalaureate Fellowships, which will be directed by Brad Gibson, associate professor of psy­chology, will pro­vide a resource center for faculty and undergradu­ates and assis­tance in the appli­cation and inter­view processes. 
"The emphasis 

"One ofour major focuses is to develop opportunities in Jl)hich students may maximize their potential for these scholarships. " 
Brad Gibson director of the Office of Undergraduate and Post­Baccalaureate Fellowships 
of the Office of 
Undergraduate and Post-Baccalaureate Fellowships is more than just processing application. One of our major focuses is to develop opportunities in which stu­dents may maximize their potential for these scholarships," Gibson said. 
The Office of Undergraduate and Post­Baccalaureate Fellowships was opened in August in order to meet the demand for a centralized office for the fellow­ships. Located on the first floor of O'Shaughnessy, Gibson hopes to estab­lish a central network of support for undergraduate students within close proximity of the Office of Undergraduate 
tinue. 
Dan Flatley, this new office has been put on firm footing," said Father John Jenkins, senior asso­ciate provost and vice president at Notre Dame. The new center will hope to identify and encourage promising candidates for the fellowships early in their Notre Dame career. 
Despite the recent establishment of the cen­ter. Gibson noted many students have already begun to take advantage of the resources available and hopes that will con­

"The process for applying for a fellow­ship really enhances a student's educa­tion. Students think of their future and question what they want to do with their lives, enhancing the process of self-dis­covery," Gibson explained. 
More information about the Office of Undergraduate and Post-Baccalaureate Fellowships may be obtained by stopping by 99 O'Shaughnessy or by calling {219) 631-0371. • 
Contact Molly Herbe at mherbe@nd.edu 
Molti Bene 
Catalino's Trattoria Downtown South Bend 

w 
0 
In 
e 
n 


ofNotre Darne 
The Office for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and the Notre Dame Career Center proudly present another Women of Notre Dame Visitor Series. 
The Women of Notre Dame Project is a joint project intended to celebrate 30 years of co­education by providing strong female role models and mentors for our students and women supporters for our campus community. In the Visitor's Series, we invite women alums to campus to talk about their careers and particular expertise. 
The Honorable Joan Orie Melvin Judge of the Superior Court of Pennsylvania 
Judge Melvin is a 1978 Economics graduate of Notre Dame 
"My (Brilliant) Career: Life After Graduation" Thursday, October 4, in 119 O'Shaughnessy, 4:00 p.m. 
"Balancing Career and Family" Friday, October 5, 119 O'Shaughnessy, 11 :30 a.m. A light lunch will be served 
. 
.' ' 
-• t, \ • 

r 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 8 Wednesday, October 3, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
Tbt ltuhpnuhnt. D11ily Nt""f'"/'" &mNf N•tTt D.,,., and S,,/111 M•ry, 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MA.Ry's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROLl..ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX........................................................ , .... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF.. ......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Asst. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS...................................................... , ... 631-5323 
observer.ob?news. l@nd.edu VJEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 observer .viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
• . observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR\"s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc.l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ..... :.......... .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and August 1999 staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Ch~f Mike Connolly. 

Learn to respond nonviolently 
"When in despair I remember that all through history the way of truth and love has always won; there have been tyrants and murderers, and for a time they can seem invincible, but in the end they always fall," said M.K. Gandhi. 
Aran Gandhi
Understandably after the tragedy in New York and 
For a More 
Washington, D.C., 
Just and 

on September 11, 
Humane 

many have written 
World 

or called the office to find out what would be an appropriate nonviolent response to such an unbelievably inhu­man act of violence. 
First we m·ust understand that nonvi­olence is not a strategy that we can use in times of peace and discard in a moment of crisis. Nonviolence is about personal attitudes, about becoming the change we wish to see in the world, because a nation's collective attitude is based on the attitude of the individual. Nonviolence is about building positive relationships with all human beings ­relationships that are based on love, compassion, respect, understanding and appreciation. 
Nonviolence is also about not judging people as we perceive them to be ­that is, a murderer is not born a mur­derer; a terrorist is not born a terrorist. People become murderers, robbers and terrorists because of circumstances and experiences in life. Killing or con­fining murders, robbers, terrorists or the like is not going to rid this world of them. For every one we kill or confine we create another hundred to take their place. What we need to do is dis­passionately analyze both the circum­stances that create such monsters and ways we can help eliminate those cir­cumstances. Focusing our efforts on the monsters rather than on what cre­ates the monsters will not solve the problems of violence. Justice should mean reformation and not revenge. 
We saw some people in Iraq and Palestine, and I dare say many other countries, rejoicing over the tragedies at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. It horrified us, as it should have. But let us not forget that we do the same thing. When Israel bombs the Palestinians we either rejoice or show no compassion. Our attitude is that they deserve what they get. When the Palestinians bomb the Israelis we are indignant and condemn them as ver­min who need to be eliminated. · 
We reacted without compassion when we bombed the cities of Iraq. I was among the millions in the United States who sat glued to the television and watched the drama as though it was a made-for-television film. Thousands of innocent men, women and children were being blown to bits and, instead of feeling sorry for them, we marveled at the efficiency of our military. For more than ten years we have continued to wreak havoc in Iraq -an estimated 50,000 children die every year because of sanctions that we have imposed-and it hasn't moved us to compassion. All this is done, we are told, because we want to get rid of the Satan called Sad am Hussein. 
Now we are getting ready to do this all over again to get rid of another Satan called Osama bin Laden. We will bomb the cities of Afghanistan because they harbor. the Satan and in the process we will help create a thousand other bin Ladens. 
Some might say, "We don't care what the world thinks of us as long as they respect our strength. After all, we have the means to blow this world to pieces since we are the only surviving super­power." I question whether we want other countries to respect us the way school children respect a bully. Is that our role in the world? If a bully is what we want to .be, then we must be pre­pared to face the same consequences that a school-yard bully faces. On the other hand, \\;e cannot tell the world "leave us alone." Isolationism is not what this world is built for. 
All of this brings us back to the same question: How do we respond nonvio­lently to terrorism? 
The consequences of a military response are not very rosy. Many thou­sands of innocent people will die both here and in the country or countries we attack. Militancy will increase expo­nentially and ultimately we will be faced with other more pertinent moral questions: What will we gain by . destroying half the world? Will we be able to live with a clear conscience? 
We must acknowledge our role in helping to create monsters in the world, find ways to contain these mon­sters without hurting more innocent people and then redefine our role in the world. I think we must move from seeking to be respected for our military strength to being respected for our moral strength. 
We need to appreciate that we are in a position to play a powerful role in helping the "other half" of the world attain a better standard of life -not by throwing a few crumbs, but by signifi­cantly involving ourselves in construc­tive economic programs. 
For too long our foreign policy has been based on "what is good for the United States." It rings of selfishness. Our foreign policy should now be based on what is good for the world and how we can do the right thing to help the world become more peaceful. 
Let us dedicate our lives to creating a peaceful, respectful and understanding world. 
"For a More Just and Humane World" is a bi-weekly column in The Observer. Arun Gandhi is the Founder Director of the M.K. Gandhi Institute for Nonviolence in Memphis. Tennessee. Comments/responses can be directed to ND. ndcntrsc. l@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Support other athletics 
After witnessing the debacle known as Fighting Irish foot­ball on Saturday, I want to propose an alternative to com­plaining about the inability of the Irish to win a football game. On Friday afternoon on the Burke Memorial Golf Course (the one by the Rock). the fourth-ranked cross coun­try team will compete in the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Rather than whine about our football team, which is 0-3 for the first time in 114 years, we should support our other athletes, namely the runners. In about five minutes, the Irish defense gives up a touchdown. In about five minutes, one of the four All-Americans on the cross country team runs a mile. It takes the football team about 30 minutes to score (if they're lucky). It takes those same All-Americans only 25 minutes to finish a race. On Saturday afternoon we will spend four hours on our feet cheering for the Irish foot­ball team. On Friday spend half an hour on the golf course, cheering for our runners as they chase the National Championship. 
Fourth in the country is pretty impressive. In fact, it's the highest rank of any team on campus. so we should all take advantage of the opportunity to support our dormmates, classmates and friends as they shake down the thunder and show that old Notre Dame can still win over all. The gun goes off at 5 p.m. 
Andy Nelson 
Fisher Hall 
JUlllOr 
Oct. 2, 2001 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Maribel Morey  Gordon Strickland  
Van Giles  Graphics  
Justin Krivickas  Jimmy Atkinson  
Sports  Production  
Matt Lozar  Jeff Baltruzak  
Viewpoint  Joe Lindsley  
Sheila Flynn  Lab Tech  
Lisa Velte  


POLL QUESTION 
. How safe do you feel on campus? 
2% No opinio 5% Very worried 
13% Somewhat worried 

*this poll appears courtesy of collegeclub.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nonviolence is the answer to the crucial politi­cal and moral questions ofour time; the need for man to overcome oppression and violence without resorting to oppression and violence . ., 
Martin Luther King, Jr. civil rights leader 
-

O
THE 

BSERVER 

Wednesday, October 3, 2001 page 9 

Bring back courtesy-
In a world filled with war, famine, mistrust, sin, prejudice, The Backstreet Boys and dentists, it's sometimes hard to know what to do. World leaders, peace activists, monks, priests, teach­ers, parents, revolu­tionaries and bil­
Joe Larson
lions of other regu­lar people have been trying to con­
The Principles 
struct a solution for the world's prob­ofI diocracy lems since Eve made Adam eat the forbidden fruit,· the ·idiots. 
I suspect that if the two original members of the human race never ate that apple, we would never have even had to worry about this kind of stuff, but that is almost completely beside the point. 
What is the point? The point is that the world is a pretty scary place which, when it rears its ugly head, has to make one wonder about just what the heck the solution is for all this hulla­baloo. 
WeU my friends, I'm happy to report that my slightly less than 21-year-old mind has discovered a principle that could not only modify your lives, · about a little courtesy and going to mine, too?" 

The idiocracy was transforming before our very eyes. This new-fangled principle of courtesy was great. If you did something for your buddy then the next time, he did something for you. If you needed something that someone could get without too much trouble, then your need was fulfilled. It was beautiful. 
Now like anything, this principle can be carried too far. Sometimes requests are ill-advised and simply unfulfillable, but the overarching theme is definitely evident. Every so often, if you do some­thing courteous for someone and they do something couheous for you, things are better. Small, annoying edges are taken off your daily routine. Your over­all disposition is sunnier -ever so slightly, but sunnier nonetheless. Things are better -not that much bet­ter, but noticeably better. 
Courtesy is something that our par­ents and teachers push on us from day one when we're little. Courtesy is one of the first things your kindergarten teacher told you about. When you didn't share the crayons with your 
classmates, she told you that 
last year when we were trying to watch television for extended periods of time without losing our seats if we had to get up and go to the bathroom or leave for some other reason (another cocktail, maybe?). 
When I arrived at Notre Dame my freshmen year, I was jumped by the notion of "fives." This most annoying and frustrating institution involves a person leaving his or her seat and hav­ing to call "fives" in order to prevent his or her buddies, sitting there like vultures watching their friend die in the desert, rush to take the open and obvi­ously better seat. Dismayed by this, because I always forgot to say "fives," I presented the idea that maybe every­one should just let the person have his seat back when he returned. 
Apparently this was not an option. So we floundered for two years in the cut­throat world of "fives," until the cour• tesy principle appeared like Gabriel to the Virgin Mary before our eyes. 
The arrival actually wasn't that much different from any other regularly obnoxious comment coming from the peanut gallery in the idiocracy. One particular member of the board came back to the living room and, finding his seat stolen, exclaimed, "How about a little courtesy?" 
A phenomenon was born. . 
"You getting another cocktail? How about a little courtesy and grab me one, too?" 
"You going to the store? How about a little courtesy and picking me up a Slurpee?" 
"You going to class today? How level of personal output. We are told to 

win at alJ costs and to forget about the 
people we step on during our ascent to 
the coveted top. 

Somewhere along the way we forgot 
about courtesy and grew up into self• 
possessed and irritable people. We 
become upset when courtesy is not 
extended to us yet we neglect to extend 
the same courtesy back to other people. 
This world is chock full of anger, lies 
and a thirst for vengeance. Maybe the . problem is the lack of courtesy. 
Perhaps implementing a little courtesy 
into our daily lives could help. Maybe it 
could change things. Ideas could be 
more respected, people more tolerant, 
paths less blocked. 
If the world would just remember 
kindergarten when we all learned to 
treat others the way we want to treat­
ed, maybe things could work out better 
and we could all be a little bit happier. 
How hard is it to grab another cocktail 
for a fellow human if you are about to 
get one yourself, anyway? It may seem 
insignificant at the time, but maybe, 
just maybe, that could be the act that 
gets the ball rolling to a more satisfying 
universe. Or maybe it isn't, but how 
much skin off your nose is it to do it 
anyway? 

Joe Larson is a senior English and 
History major. He urges you to 
acknowledge and embrace your role in 
the idiocracy, because whether you 
know it or not, you are included. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not neces­
sarily those ofThe Observer. 
I came to Notre Dame from a whole 
different world. I grew up in New 
Jersey and New York City, in a liber­
al Catholic family devoted to all 
things Irish. My brother graduated 
from Notre Dame with honors, and 
my sister graduated from Saint 
Mary's with honors. Both warned me 
that, as a bisexual, I would not find 
myself welcomed with open arms in 
South Bend. I came anyway, hoping 
both to receive a great education and 
to make Notre Dame a better place 
for its gay, lesbian and bisexual stu• 
dents. 
I have spent two of the past three years as a member of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. In that time we have widened the scope of Network, our educational programs, brought speakers like last week's Judy Shepherd, and begun a freshman Educational Initiative. All these things are progress. 
I have also served three years on the board of the unrecognized stu­dent group OutreachND, which has increased its membership five-fold, sponsored educational speakers and implemented Solidarity Sunday. In this time OutreachND has also taken a determined stance against the poli• tics and activism of the past in favor of support and community for its members. However, last Friday OutreachND was again denied recog­nition as an official Notre Dame stu­dent club. The administration feels that Campus Ministry and The Standing Committee adequately address the problems here. Allow me to educate them. 
It is very difficult to be young and gay anywhere. It is even more so here. The student body has made great strides in the past three years, and I commend them. Yet hate lan­guage like "fag," "Homo," and "queer," still persists, and still hurts. We also live at one of the few remaining Universities in the country without a recognized gay student group or anti-discrimination policy. Gay groups are prohibited from advertising, hanging posters or hold­ing meetings on campus. Gay faculty and students are not protected from discrimination in hiring, firing or admission policies. Institutional dis­crimination runs across the board, and it prevents our community from feeling safe or welcome here. 
I am a Catholic, and yes, I under­stood before coming here that Notre Dame was a Catholic school. So I had all the more reason to believe that love and tolerance would rank high among its principles and policies. I have also read the Catechism, which concerning homosexuals clearly states that "all unjust discrimination 
in their regard must be avoided." ­
In three years I never tried to con­
vince the administration that homo­
sexuality is right or without sin. I do 
not need to because it is neither their 
place nor mine to judge such things. 
I am pretty sure God does not live in 
the Dome. But He does live in each of 
us and in our religion, and lie tells 
us to love each other. Indeed, He 
tells us to love each other as we love 
Him. This includes our gay students, 
although apparently the administra­
tion does not think so. · 
Instead they told tne that Campus Ministry and The Standing Committee are "most effective" at combating the loneliness. depression and confusion gay students here face. For the record, Campus Ministry runs a 36-hour annual retreat and The Standing Committee runs programs for the straight com­munity. Campus Ministry has Bible Study for gays too, which attracts four-six people. Despite their best intentions, this is embarrassingly inadequate. 
By contrast OutreachND meetings attract 25-40 people weekly. We offer peer support and community, and we obviously do a great job of it. We do our Catholic duty in offering love and support for the disenfran­chised. Keep in mind Jesus was the Savior of society's outcasts. 
After three years of hard work, frustration and setbacks in seeking recognition for OutreachND, I now resign from both of my positions. I resign from OutreachND not because I have lost faith in our beautiful organization, but because I am very tired. I resign from the Standing Committee because I refuse to act any longer as the University's lackey, considering that The Standing Committee relies 100 percent on OutreachND for members, workers and presenters. 
As a supposed leader in the intel­lectual and religious landscape of America, Notre Dame should be embarrassed by its 1950s' social policies, which contradict not only current societal and scientific knowl­edge, but the very essence of Catholicism and its Catechism. To the upper echelon of the administration: You are the very definition of hypocrisy. You are solely responsible for the tears of Notre Dame's gay community and whatever fallout may occur from your decision. 
Michaela C. Murray-Nolan 
Senior Off-campus Oct. I, 2001 
1t, & ....
. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 10 Wednesday, October 3, 200 I 
By MATT KILLEN 
Scene Writer 
This past summer MIV, one of the most watched cable networks on television, celebrated its 20th anniversary on the air. Growing from a relatively small operation that just played a few music videos, M1V is now a worldwide phe­nomenon that encompasses television shows, movies, fash­ion, style, youth culture and yes, even music. 
While the success of the network has been unparalleled, its audience has always eventually aged and moved on. \Vith such a narrow target audience, MTV cannot rely on long-term loyalty in its attempt to stay ahead of rivals like VH1. As it enters into its third decade, M1V is in a battle to gain viewers and maintain its relevance to modern popular culture. 
It began as nothing more than an idea. It was the early '80s. Disco was winding down, and the music industry needed something new and fresh that would sell records. They had the music, but they needed a national platform on which to sell their new bands and musical genres. 
At the same time, America has just been introduced to a new method of receiving television: cable. No longer would a few broadcast networks dominate the eyes of millions. Cable opened the door to hundreds of networks. It wasn't about the big three anymore (NBC, ABC, CBS). Networks tailored to particular tastes and ideas could now reach the mass market with ease. The door was open. 
The idea to combine music and image into a single, cohe­sive source of entertainment was born. It vvas MTV, Music Television. It would serve initially as an outlet for lesser­known bands and their music to gain a national recognition, a place to sell an image and show some music. It would become so much more than that, growing into a behemoth that would reach out into all areas of the lives of American youths. 
It was a warm summer night when the idea first hit the airwaves. At midnight on Aug. 1, 1981, the American public was exposed for the first time to M1V. It first launched with a small library of the new music videos. The library quickly grew, however, as more and more bands saw the impor­tance of this network. Original VJs like Nina Blackwood, Mark Goodman and J.J. Jackson introduced to their audi­ence the faces behind such types of music as rock and '80s pop. 
It wasn't long before MTV was captivating teens and infu­riating adults. The generational gap that had always existed between parents and adults was thrust into their living rooms and given a face and a name: MTV. MTV targeted a youthful audience, from young teens to collegians to people in their mid-20s. Everyone was tuning in to the music net­work. 
With success and popularity came an evolving image of itself. MTV began to expand beyond music video. As the 



I still wan1 
Celebrating its 20th birthday, M7V continuE 
show aged into the late '80s, icons such as "Beavis and Butthead" came into the American lexicon. MTV's success with television shows sparked even more, culminating with the early '90s debut of their crown jewel, "The Real World." "The Real World" would become the mother of all reality shows and a platform for many young adults to look upon and see people similar to themselves. 
In the late '90s, MTV moved into new studios in Time Square. With a window looking down on the world, MTV created a more direct connection with their audience and culture in general. 
MTV'~ influence on music has been huge. 
"Its been enormous for musical groups," Dr. Susan Ohmer, Assistant Professor of American Studies, said. "They started to think of music in visual terms and creating an image for the group." 
It became an entirely new way for groups and performers to connect with their audiences directly. It was a revolution in the music industry, forcing people to completely change the way they thought about the business and the craft. 
The music video as a genre has had a huge impact on culture, as well. "It has made people aware of music," Ohmer said, "but also of chore­ographers, cinematographers, and others related to the visual aspect. It's also effected movies. There are faster shots, quicker takes. Its definite­ly an MTV feeling," Ohmer said. 
At the dawn of the new millennium, the mod­ern image of M1V seems to be a product of the very culture it helped to create. Shows such as "The Real World" are still thriving, but they now have a younger and younger cast than the people who debuted in the first series a decade ago. "The Real World" has been joined by dozens of other successful MTV television shows. "Road Rules," "Daria," and "Undressed" are just some of the popular television shows on M1V that have little or nothing to do with music. One of' most popular events on MTV is its annual "MIV Movie Awards," both an awards show and a parody of traditional award shows, as well. 
One of the common complaints about MIV is its gradual yet steady filtering out of actual music videos, which are both expensive and watched less than MTV's current slate of television shows. 
The lack of music videos is just one of the com­plaints facing MTV. In fact, as MTV is passing by its 20th birthday, it faces mounting criticism and 
MTV VJs, featured artists and fans celebrate MTV's 20th birthday in a
concern about the direction the network is going. 
If there's one constant in television, its change. No network can stay the same too long without younger networks were growing at a far greater rate than losing view-CNN, forcing CNN to overhaul in hopes of attracting new e r s viewers. Recently, MTV's problem is far greater, however. A network that CNN faced a targets a youthful demographic inevitably must face the similar situ­grim fact that their viewers will eventually become older. ation as The MIV generation has grown up and left the party, leav­MTV has. ing a vacuum that MTV has been trying to fill. Facing its "Many 1V networks assume that you're not going to keep 2 0 t h an audience long. The issue MTV faces is constantly trying anniversary on the air, CNN began a significant overhaul both in front of and behind the camera in an attempt to thwart successful rivals Fox N e w s Channel a n d MSNBC. Though smaller in viewership, 

t h e s e "The Real World" cast members come together for a picture I 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

tmyMTV 
?S to captivate youth audiences worldwide 


Photo courtesy of www.mtv.com. 

Carson Daly, the darling of MTV, hosts Total Request Live, a show where viewers can vote for 
thier favorite videos. 

"Total ijequest Llv.e." Unlike other shows, TRL actually plays music. Airing in the after school hour, TRL is catering to an audience of young girls just getting off the bus. Bands such as the Backstreet Boys and N*SYNC are representative of the types of artists whose videos are played during this show. 
M1V may face an even greater problem in its battle to stay on top: corporatism. With the rise of the mega conglomerates such as AOl/fime­Warner and News Corp, MTV finds itself in the 
middle of Viacom, mogul Sumner Redstone's 
company. 

"MlV is considered the crown jewel ofViacom. Other sections [of the company] are required to advertise on it. There seems to be a lot ofattention given to the next gen­eration," Ohiner said. 
This apparent advantage, however, can also have a great many detriments. As the super corporations are a relatively modern creation, they are still attempting to change and modify in order to create a kind of synergy. There's a dan­ger that MTV could lose its focus in all ofthis. 
MTV faces the challenge ofpleasing both its audience and its corporate bosses, as well. 
a special television birthday bash. 
to reinvent itself," Ohiner said. 
One of the concerns many older teens have is that M1V seems to be targeting an even younger audience than ever before. 
"MTV presents itself for older teenagers and younger adults, but it really seems that younger teens are respond­ing to it," Ohmer said. "There's a sense that M1V is feeding into the 'tween' culture, maybe even helping to create this new culture." 
One of the best examples of this is MlV's latest hit show, 



Photo courtesy of www.mtv.com
Photo courtesy of www.mtv.com 

Undisputedly one of the most famous logos
featuring cast members from ten seasons of MTV's brainchild. 
around, MTV's celebrates another birthday. 
"It's a young group. They have a staff that is clued into 
today's youth," Ohmer said. "They're working in New York 
and trying to figure out what people in Texas and Indiana 
want. With the media corporation, there's also a lot ofinter­
nal demand." 

Whatever the issue, MTV is not blind to its own problem. 
Its aforementioned move to Times Square studios and its 
subsequent facelift portray the image of company who is 
well aware of the difficulties they fa:ce. Compounding the 
problem, however, is the age of instant access, where the 
latest trends and styles (a benchmark definition of what 
M1V caters to) is chewed up and spit out far faster than it 
was in the '80s and even early '90s. 
It's a Friday afternoon. TRL's studio is packed full of 15 and 16 year-old girls screaming at the top of their lungs in a frightening display ofjoy and giddy excitement. The atmos­phere is that of a party, whose chaperone is Carson Daly, the uber-successor to the VJs of the past. The backdrop of the studio is the windows that look down on Times Square. Down there, more people gather as the cars and cabs of New Yorkers pass by the studio, which is situated across from another window-on-the-world, the ABC studios. 
To the deafening glee of the young live audience, Daly announces that videos from Dr. Dre, the Backstreet Boys, and J Lo are just around the corner. The crowd claps and cheers as they hear the name of their favorite bands. In images that resemble Headline News more than MTV, com­ments from online viewers flash across the screen, along with facts and notes about the bands whose videos are play­ing. 
Before the videos of the latest pop sensations begin to roll, however, Daly announces that up first is the new video by Michael Jackson. The crowd erupts in cheers and the video begins to play. 
Jackson, once a common image on MTV in the '80s and early '90s, is appearing in his first video in several years. The thought of Jackson returning as a cultural icon to the station that made him one suggests that, perhaps, MTV isn't going anywhere. It may endure for years to comP as the cul­tural pulse of the youth generation, continu: to define music and style for a long time to come. 
In the words of Carson Daly, "Oh, uh, allright, that's cool." 
Contact Matt Killen at killen.3@nd.edu. 
Wednesday, October 3, 2001 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
! 
NATIONAL LEAGUE

( 
\ 
Bonds walks twice in 4-1 Giants win 
\ 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
At this rate, Barry Bonds will walk his way into history before he ever trots there. 
Bonds once again got little to swing at, remaining one short of Mark McGwire's home run record as the San Francisco Giants beat the Houston Astros 
4-1. 
Bonds went 1-for-2 with two walks, and was hit by a pitch while the Giants further scram­bled the NL playoff picture. He stayed at 69 home runs, with five games left to break Big Mac's mark. 
"You can't do anything if you're not pitched to," Bonds said. "You take what they give you. We won, that's all that matters." 
If Bonds does go deep Wednesday night, the score­board operators at Enron Field will be ready. Shortly after fans left the park, they began trying out their displays for No. 70 and No. 71, if necessary. 
Facing Shane Reynolds, among the majors' best control pitchers, Bonds swung onLy once in four trips. Against Billy Wagner's 98-mph fastballs, he grounded out. 
"Billy pitched to me," Bonds said. 
Bonds has walked 169 times this year, one short of Babe Ruth's record set in 1923. A record crowd at Enron booed when Reynolds worked around Bonds, who admitted he was a bit surprised by the strategy. 
"When he came up, there were guys on base, so we are not going to give him a pitch to hit,., Reynolds said. 
Bonds will see rookie Tim Redding on Wednesday night, with a chance to make history on a most historic day. It will be the 50th anniversary of one of baseball's most famous home runs, Bobby Thomson's "Shot Heard 'Round the World." 

In Redding's previous outing, he gave up three straight home runs to Sammy Sosa. 
''I've faced McGwire, Sosa and Bonds, three of the most prolific home run hitters ever, and I've done nothing but go right after them," Redding said. "You can't worry about all the sideshows." 
But does Bonds expect to get some pitches over the plate? 
"I haven't the faintest idea. We'll see tomorrow," he said. 
The crowd of 43,548 that included commissioner Bud Selig and Bonds' father, Bobby, saw the Giants send Houston to its fourth straight loss. 
The Astros dropped into a tie for Central lead with St. Louis, which beat Milwaukee 5-1. They had held the division lead by themselves since Aug. 1 7. and could have clinched at least a wild-card spot with a win. 
Ramon Martinez hit the Giants' franchise-record 227th home run of the season as they won for the sixth time in eight games. They began the day two games behind Arizona in the West. 
Rich Aurilia doubled and sin­gled, joining Willie Mays and Bobby Bonds as the only San Francisco players with 200 hits in a season. Jeff Kent delivered his team-record 47th double, driving in Bonds. 
Kirk Rueter (14-12) limited the Astros to one run in 6 1/3 innings. Robb Nen pitched the ninth for his 44th save. 
Reynolds (13-11), who had won four straight decisions, was foiled in his first bid to earn his 100th career victory. 
Before the game, Bonds said he hoped Houston would pitch to him in this three-game series. But also said his No. 1 goal was to help the Giants reach the 
playoffs, no matter whether he Cincinnati Reds a victory over his helmet at the fans. set the home run record. the Cubs. "Running the bases I feel like I 
Bonds was hit by a pitch in Dmitri Young and D.T. was thinking about everything the first inning and. with the Cromer also homered for the I've been through," said Sosa, crowd booing, walked on five Reds. who was so poor growing up in pitches in the fourth. He The loss, along with St. Louis' the Dominican Republic he sold grounded a single up the middle 5-1 victory over Milwaukee, oranges and shined shoes. in the sixth and scored on Jeff eliminated the Cubs from the NL "Now, being in the position that Kent's double for a 3-1 lead. wild card race. The Cubs are six I am, it feels great for my family 
In the seventh. after he kept games behind St. Louis and and my people." Aurilia from arguing too long Houston with only five games The homer atso gave him 150 with plate umpire Mike Winters, left. RBIs, the seventh time a player he ran the count to 3-0 before "This summer's been a beau­has hit 50 homers and had 150 getting an intentionally walk. tiful thing for our team to come RBIs. Sosa, who did it in 1998, 
Bonds is used to getting such a long way from last year," Sosa is the only player to have done it treatment. He's drawn a major said. "When the season's over, I since World War II. league-record 352 intentional can go home and I don't have Babe Ruth and Jimmie Foxx walks in his career, including 32 anything to be sorry for." reached 50 homers and 150 this season. That's an understatement. RBIs twice. Hack Wilson did it 
"Maybe he'll get some pitches While Barry Bonds chases Mark once. to hit tomorrow and pop one," McGwire's single-season record 'Tm not going to say to you Giants manager Dusty Baker of 70 home runs -Bonds it's nice, but I cannot sit back said. reached base four times and relax right now and think 
Craig Biggio's RBI double put Tuesday night but remained about it," Sosa said. "We've got the Astros ahead 1-0 in the stuck on 69, Sosa has been awe­to keep it continue. I still have a third. John Vander Wal's run­somely consistent. lot of years in my body. scoring groundout tied it in the "I never surprise myself," "Hopefully next year I will hit fourth. Sosa said. "(But) I surprise a lot 60 again. but who knows?" he 
Martinez singled and scored of people." added. "But first I want to go to on Calvin Murray's single in the He's one of five players to hit the playoffs. I want to win fifth. Kent doubled home Bonds 60 homers. and the only one to again." in the sixth. do it three times. He hit 66 The Cubs need more than 
homers in 1998, when McGwire Sosa to do that, though. Rookie set the single-season record and Juan Cruz allowed four hits in Reds 5, Cubs 4 followed that with 63 in 1999. the first five innings. But the 
For almost 40 years no one hit No. 60 this ye_ar was a solo Reds got to him in the sixth 
60 home runs. Now Sammy homer in the first off Reds left­inning.Sosa has done it three times in hander Lance Davis, an arching After Todd Walker singled,four seasons. shot to left-center. The fans let 'Wilton Guerrero hit a chopper
Sosa became the first player out a roar when they saw the to left that Hondel! \,Vhite bob­with three 60-homer seasons, a ball leave his bat, knowing it bled. Walker reached third on mark as impressive for its was gone. the error, and Guerrero went to power as its consistency. "When I hit that one, at that second. "It's kind of mind-boggling to moment, I feel great because Walker scored on Griffey's see what he's done," Chicago 
everybody in the whole world groundout, and Young sent the Cubs manager Don Baylor said. was waiting for me to do that," first pitch he saw into the cen­"You go almost 40 years with Sosa said. "I was getting a little ter-field stands for a two-run 

nobody hitting 60, and he's 
bit anxious up there trying to homer that tied the game. done it three times already. It's please my people and my team.'-' The Reds struck again in the a pretty incredible feat." When the ball cleared the ninth. \\lith two outs, Dunn sent 
But not enough to keep the 
wall, the scoreboard's message Farnsworth's 1-0 pitch over the 
Cubs from being eliminated 
board flashed "Sammy Hits 60 wall in right-center and out of from postseason contention. Again!" and the fans clapped the park.Adam Dunn hit a solo homer off until Sosa came out for a cur­Counting his minor league
Kyle Farnsworth in the top of 
tain call. He stood at the top games, Dunn has 53 homers in the ninth inning, giving the steps of the dugout and waved 157 games this year. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST bookbag in South Dining Hall Tuesday. It's blue and white Jansport with Leprechaun patch. Please return to Laura Lacayo 4­4273 
FOR RENT 
5 rooms for rent on football week­ends. Many happy repeat cus­tomers. 2 miles N. of campus. 277­8340 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS 
mmmrentals.com email: mmmrentals@aol.com 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 rooms with private baths, $80­$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107. 1­800-418-9487 
Turttt1 Creek Apt. Opening 1 Br $655 276-4809 HOUSE FOR RENT: 1)9-br $2400/month. 2) 5-br $1500/month. 
3) 4-br $1000/monlh. Call Bill at 532-1896. 
For rent: remodeled 4-bdrm house. 3 blks. from ND. Garage avail. 233­2104 
B&B 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS 247-1124 
5 Rooms for rent on Football week­ends. Many happy repeat cus­tomers. 2 miles north of campus 277-8340 
WANTED 
STUDENT WORK $14.50 Base-appt. 
Vector Mkt. is titling PT cust. svc./sales positions (5-20hrs) Flex. around classes. Scholarships. Cond. apply www.workforstudents.com/np call M-W 12-5pm 282-2357 
WANTED: Small dorm refrigerator. Call Katie 4•1188 

FOR SALE 
Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen with appliances. 1 car garage. $69,000. Call Doris at 254• 1772 
'98 Men's Schwin Frontier 19" Mountain Bike. Like New. Call 277­8208 after 3:30 
52055 Old Post Lane Spacious 4 bdrm, 2 story on private lane in Farmington Square. 2373 SF + professionally finished base­ment. Call Jack at 280-7730. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty. 
TICKETS 
Help! Family coming in. Need WV tickets. Call Kerry at 243-0928 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 
OBSERVER DRIVER NEEDS TWO GA'S TO ANY GAME CALL JACK 674-6593 Have: 4 WVU and 4 Navy tix. Need: ND-BC tix and/or cash Call Bob at 219-315-8964 
BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 277-6619 or 273-3911 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED 
A.M. -232-2378 P M. -288-2726 
ND tickets for sale Lowest prices. 232-0964. 
WANTED -ND TICKETS 289-9280 
Buying some/ Selling a few extra 
N.D. Football Tickets. 219-289-8048. 
Need 2 tix, student or GA to USC game. Call Noreen at 284-4417. 
USC: Loyal alum who missed the lottery needs 6 USC tix. Top Dollar! Ask tor Gary at toll free {888) 893­6753 or Gehura@pegrehab.com 
2 NO-Pitt tickets for sale. Call Ken Kuta@ 415-677-1310. 
WANTED U2 TICKETS 232·0964 
Need 6 W. Virginia Tickets. Call Tim 634-1754 
PERSONAL 

SPRING BREAK Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available. www.EpicuRRean.com 1-800-231-4-FUN 
WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan 
FOR FREE! To find out how, call 1­888-777-4642 or email: sates@sun­coastvacations.com 
Spring Break Insanity! WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM or call 1-800-327-6013 Guaranteed lowest prices! All desti­nations! Fifteen years experience! Wanted: Representatives and orga• nizatoins. earn top $$$, build your resume SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge in FREE Travel, Drinks, Food and Parties with the Best DJs and celebrities in Cancun, Jamaica, Mazatlan and the Bahamas. Go to StudentCity.com, call 1·800·293­1443 or email sales@studentcity.com to find out more. 
Spring Break with STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1 ·800-648·4849 www.ststravel.com 
••• ACT NOW! Guarantee the best spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida & Madrigas. Reps needed. Travel free, earn $$$. Group discount for 6+ 800· 838-8203 / www.leisuretours.com 
hockey season again? geez it ended like 1 0 days ago. 
Bob Davie Farewell Tour 2001 starts Saturday 
Shallow Hal 
what's up iceman? 


' ' 
Wednesday, October 3, 2001 page 13
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
C E N T E R 

.Ho_urs: M-F 8AM-10PM-Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM .
SOCIAL CONCERNS In Response to the Events o[September 11th 
In this time ofterrible loss and 1nomentous decisions, the Center for Social Concerns offers re­sources through this website to assist individuals develop informed views, seek spiritual sustenance, and find just, wise, and effective ways to respond. 

Please visit: http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/septl 1 
Social Concern Seminars/SSPis/ISSLPs 


-·-Summer Service Project Internships: Eight week service-learning experiences sponsored by Notre Dame alumni clubs -,.... across the country. Room and board is provided while students work with agencies serving disadvantaged populations. .. First Information Session: Thursday, Oct 18th 6p.m.
-

Additional Information Sessions will be held at the CSC on the following dates: 
Wednesday, Nov 7th 7p.m. * Wednesday, Nov 28th 7p.m. * Tuesday, Jan 22nd 6:30p.m. 
ACCION Internships: For Junior Business majors only. 10-12 weeks working with ACCION offices that are micro­
ACC[•N 


lending organizations. Room and board stipend provided. 
International Summer Service Learning Program: 7-9 p.m. Tues. Info. Nights@ CSC Satellite Office (Coleman-Morse, Rm. I 13) Applications now available at CSC and Satellite Offices * Applications due: Nov. 1 Sites represented this week: Northern India, Ecuador, and Honduras (GHI) 
Border 
Issues 


~ Border Issues Applications now available.at the CSC. Info. session: Thurs., Oct. 4 7:30-8:00 p.m. at the CSC 
.. ... 

CSC Vehicle Info Session 

Center for Social Concerns Vehicle Training Sessions; All s~tninaifµivers must ,take a vebi,cle infotm?,Qon session:i1l9f~rto drive for their seminartrip. -· . · . · · · · •: .. -· 
Final Date: Wednesday, Oc~~rlO (~:00 p.m., Rm. 124 C~C). No r~g~stration rr4u~•. ~ring ~n art4J~?~~rs~U~p~: · 






Madison Center -Juvenile Justice Center -Contact: Tony Castellino -235-5457 Looking for tutors/mentors to serve as role modes & help with Math & English from 5:30-6:30, 2-3 nights a week. 
21st Century Scholar -Math Tutor -Contact: Nikki Hutchinson -239-2380 x 235 A 12th grade student at Clay High School is in need of a tutor to assist her with Algebra-Trig. Flexible schedule. 
Special Needs: Special Needs Author Needs Assistance -Contact: Rozanne -287-3891 -515 East Monroe Apt. 612 (Karl King Towers) Rozanne is physically challenged and needs someone to assist her in writing her book by contributing ideas and typing. Flexible schedule, 2-3 times a week. 
ZOO BOO -Contact: 288-4639 Want to help make this Halloween a memorable one? Volunteers are needed to decorate, dress-up in animal costumes and hand out candy for the ZOO BOO at Potawatomi Zoo Oct 26th-28th• 
Girl Scouts -Contact: Michelle Bush -273-3021 -outreach@gsssc.org Committed to building character and skills for success, the Girls Scouts of Singing Sands are looking for volunteers for their Activity Centers. Must enjoy working with children and have transportation, several sites available in South Bend. 
Senior-Year Transition Programs 
"LIVING A FAITH TO DIE' FO'R" 
Discernment Session with PROFESSOR MIKE BAXTER, CSC Wednesday, October 3, 5 -7 PM in SIEGFRIED HALL LOUNGE RSVP 1-5779. A simple supper will be served. 
Current Volunteer Needs 
Tutorini:: Contact: Cindy Black -237-0725 -Dociblk@cs.com A sixth grade student, Corey would like a tutor to assist him with general homework including reading comprehension. Flexible schedule (a couple times a week), a meeting place on campus could be arranged. 
Swanson Elementary School Contact: Lisa Horning or Kristine Torok -243-7250 Looking for tutors to assist an after school program M-TH 2:30-3:45, could commit to just a couple days a week. 
Faculty Opgortiiiiit,ies 
. . • '};l,. . . . 
Faculty.Needed! Through theCe11:terfor Social Concerns, Notre Dame 5,tuqents
> ,•:, • 

particjpatein service experien9es, ·so power­: ful thatthe lenses thrqughihich th~y'.ve 
~nthe w..orl~ are pe~~~tJy·;tl~re~. ~ . Such e~periences ~ provi<µnS,bealtb care' to poor peopl~ in Ecuador, ru,i int~~siv~ w~kin. . Appalachia -make our students W<lnt to . 
know more. To deepen the Ieapu.ng these e.xpetj~I;t~,inspi~, we.need f4~p,ltf µiem-· hers to help them formulate qiiestjons for 
academic pursujt; professors who emfpro­vide bibliography, direct students to.relevant cow-ses, help them de.sign re·search projects; ·: teachers who will guide oui stllclents in.' 
thin.king carefully ~bout theJssues... If ypu . have i!l~restJnw,or~g wi~these stud~nts in tllese·or othe.r ways, please cqntacJMary .. . Beckman at the Ce~ter for s'ocial Concerns~
'-. ,. . . :, <•;,·_'. !"' . . • "t:~~t/Jf/t-~<<'."--.;'"" ,-,.·. ·-· . 
. ;"· 



Wednesday, October 3, 200 l

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

Badgers tagged with probation 
. Wisconsin to lose football, basketball scholarships 
Associated Press 
MADISON. Wis. 
Wisconsin was put on five years' probation and lost some football and basketball scholarships Tuesday after an investigation found a shoe store gave unadvertised discounts to athletes. 
The NCAA, however, did not strip the school of any postseason awards, includ­ing its 2000 trip to the men's Final Four. 
The university disciplined itself in April. But the NCAA decided to levy additional penalties because it was the school's third major rules violation since 1994 and the number of athletes 

involved, "This wasn't one or two son why the said Tom committee
athletes and someone

Yeager, a did not member of bought them s t r i p 
the NCAA a Diet Coke... Wisconsin Division I of its 2000 Infractions Final Four 
Tom Yeager 

Committee. appear­" T h i s NCAA official ance. 
wasn't one or two ath­letes and someone bought them a Diet Coke. This was hundreds of kids involving thousands of dollars. That's significant," Yeager said. 
The university had already put itself on three years' probation, penalized itself $150,000 and stripped five scholarships over three years -four from football and one from men's basket­ball. 
The NCAA reduced the number of football scholar­ships the university can offer in the 2002­03 and 2003­

04 school ure to
"We know the restrictions 

years from 25 properly 
to 20. It also now. We have time to 

investigate ordered the deal with it." the accu­
school to cut sations. a men's bas­Each vio­
Barry Alvarez 

ketball schol­l at ion arship in Wisconsin coach occurred 
2003-04. 
Chancellor John Wiley said the school will not appeal the committee's decision, even though it strongly disagreed with the additional scholar­ship reductions. "We want this to be over," he said. 
A report in the Wisconsin State Journal prompted the university's investigation that found 157 athletes in 14 sports violated NCAA rules by accepting at least $23,000 in unadvertised dis­counts from The Shoe Box, a store 25 miles from Madison in Black Earth. 
In some cases, athletes received no-interest credit arrangements that weren't 
generally available to  other  
students.  
All  the  athletes  were  

ordered to pay a charity the amount of their discounts. Others were suspended and 

ordered to perform commu­nity service. 
The university has since banned athletes, coaches and athletic administrators from shopping at the Shoe Box. 
The university also was disciplined for providing impermissible housing bene­fits for football and basket­ball prospects between 1998 and 2000 and for failing to adequately monitor its ath­letics program, especially since it had already commit­ted two major violations over the last seven years. 
Yeager said the NCAA could have imposed even harsher penalties than the additional reduction of scholarships but ·did not because the three violations were so different from one another. 
Yeager also credited the university for the actions it took in April, saying they were a major rea­
"Once it 
was detect­ed, the university moved very swiftly, very decisively in trying to correct the prob­lem and to establish policies and procedures to greatly eliminate the possibility that it can happen again," Yeager said. 
As part of the corrective measures it took, the univer­sity implemented a new edu­cation system for all coaches and players on NCAA rules. 
Wiley also reprimanded athletic .director Pat Richter and compliance officer Tim Baid for their fail­
during Richter's tenure, 
and  his  
salary was  frozen for  one  
year.  

The NCAA also ordered the school to reprimand football coach Barry Alvarez for the improper housing assistance. 
Alvarez said the punish­ment handed down Tuesday was a relief compared with last year, when 26 players were suspended for one to three games right before the Badgers' home opener. Picked as a possible con­tender for the national title in the preseason, Wisconsin struggled to a 9-4 record as Alvarez juggled his lineup the first four weeks of the season. 
"The worst is over," Alvarez said. "We know the restrictions now. We have time to deal with it, time to address it." 
NBA 

Rider fails to report to Denver camp 
. Veteran Nugget guard with history of bizarre behavior missing in action as team opens camp 
Associated Press 
DENVER 

Coach Dan Issel made no promises that Isaiah Hider would make the Tuesday morning workout. 
Rider did not disappoint. The 30-year-old veteran who has earned a reputation for tardi­ness and legal troubles was the lone no-show at the first of two practices Tuesday when the Denver Nuggets opened training camp. 
How tardy was Rider? He was unable to beat the Ringling Bros & Barnum and Bailey Circus to the Pepsi Center. 
"I don't know where he is," lssel said of Rider. "He is supposed to take his physical or is taking his physical." 
One day later than all the Nuggets except for Rider and Menk Batere -a 6­fo o t-11 -inch rookie center from China -had gotten physicals. 
Issel said Rider's plane didn't arrive in Denver until 
9:15 a.m. Tuesday and Batere couldn't get into town any ear­
28 9-s 080
lier than Tuesday to get their 
1357 N. Iri111w1111d Dr. f 
·------.. ,,.----~-· r------• .. ------..
physicals. 
I I

I I I I I 
,10% off, I ~26 I I fc59 I I ~15
"No. it's not OK," Issel said. 
I I , Co or, Cut 1 I
: Aveda : I Cut & I 1 1 I Men's
& Style

"It is a missed practiced as far 
I I

, Retail 1 Style : 1 Process : HC 
I I I., ______ ,,I ., ______
as I am concerned." 
1.------~ ·------" 
The difference was Batere 
Valid with the following stylists only:
was in the practice gym to 
Sarah, Vicki, Karol,Nechole, & Mirance
shoot free throws in the latter stages of the morning practice. 
Must be presented to Receptionist 
before services are performed (Certain restrictions apply) 
Rider was a complete no show. 
Not valid for spiral perms, long or tinted hair add $10. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. ATRIA SALON reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. 
connect@screenblast.com 
Spread me. Swap me. Trade me. Share me with anyone you 

"He will be in practice tonight," Issel said of Rider, who signed a reported one-year con­tract for the league minimum of $840,000. 
Rider's tardiness didn't set well ·with his new teammates. Point guard Nick Va.n Exel simply shrugged his shoulders in disgust and refused to comment, but guard Avery Johnson was more pointed. 
"You let them create success for themselves or you let them create opinions of them­selves,'' Johnson said. "We are excited about the guys that are here." 
Issel seemed even less amused by the actions of the eight-year veteran. 
"\Ve hope the kid can make it, but we can't give him one chance after another after anoth~ er." Issel said. "If he shows up and he plays hard he will be here. If he doesn't, he won't. It's that simple." 
Aside from Rider, Issel saw more good com­ing out of the first workout. 
"The guys worked hard and are in pretty good shape," Issel said. "I see already this is going to be a pretty competitive camp." 
Please use the Special Savings 

invitation and get to know us. J7You'II be pleased with the quality '/ and service we provide, and we 
will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
we hone t(1 see you soon. 
I 
I : ~69 : 
I 1 Hilite, Cut 1 
I 1 1
and ,.l I : Style .,
.. ______ : 
NEW CLIENTS ONLY 
on;·r EX/lil'I'.\ 
··w/1o/01 


., 

Wednesday, October 3, 2001 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 

Football 
continued from page 20 
but at the same time is sucks to be on this side of the boo," he said. "I've heard it around campus. I keep my mouth shut but sometimes I don't know what I would do as a fan especially here at a big place like Notre Dame." 
While the players are hearing the boos loud and clear, Davie said he has no doubt where the boos are targeted. 
"I told our players, 'If there's a lot of booing this weekend, it's at me. It's not at you, so don't take it personal,"' he said. 
Davie has tried to avoid taking the criticism personally as well. He doesn't read newspapers. and tries to ignore the criticism. 
But he isn't oblivious to it. 
"It's not like you can bury your head in the sand and just be oblivious to everything," he said. "I've got a pretty clear picture of where our popularity is right now -where my popularity is now." 
In the swirl of criticism, however. Davie remains focused on one thing: winning and hopefully turning the boos to cheers. 
"This is a fickle profession and a fickle game," Davie said. "You can turn those boos into cheers in a hurry and I think the only way to do that is go out and coach better and play better. If I was sit­ting up there, I'd probably boo too. So bring it on. Let's go see if we can coach better and win a game this week." 

Notes: 
. Davie clarified his new role with the offense Tuesday. He said that Kevin Rogers will continue to call the plays and serve as offensive coordinator. Davie will attend more offensive meet­ings to add one more mind and opinion to the planning meetings. 
"Maybe I can provide a resource for them," Davie said. "Maybe they can bounce some ideas off me. Maybe I can give them some confidence right now, just by making them feel good about some of the things they are doing." 
. 
Davie announced that Vollers will move back to his natural tackle position while Sean Milligan will star:t at guard. Vallers will take Brennan Curtin's spot but offensive coordinator Rogers said Curtin will rotate with Vallers and Jordan Black at both tackle positions. 

. 
Sophomore Vontez Duff has taken over senior Clifford Jefferson's corner­back position. 

. 
Davie said tailback Julius Jones is still not 100 percent and that might be a reason for his drop in performance this year. Jones wraps his quadriceps before every practice. 


Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
Fresco 
Catalino's Trattoria Downtown South Bend 

Professional Nail Services for Men & Women 

$38 Acrylic Full Set • lvla in tenance Pedicure $22
$26Acrylic Fill 
•The Works
$21 Standing Appointment Fill Pedicure $38 
r ~ ---lfl!II ----------~ ~ • 
•Moisturizing
l srin$ tfHieryd : 
Manicure $17 

. "". .
I·. I 
•Deep Therapy I I
FREE· 
Manicure $28

I I 
I . withlhis•tatd . I .·.·· .··• ,~}11:&~ Ni,Jtmbefiiji~•1-00+• ·. I Business Hours: 
Monl We~, rri, ~at !am• cpm 115 W. Pendle St. Tues &lnurs ~m •4pm 
2nd Stoplight South of 
t Other ap~intment

Cleveland Rd. on Business 31 
\V;ilkin5 Di~t;111lc f mm C1mpu~ 
!Imes upon request 


SEI INVESTMENTS 
SEI is best described by what it is not. It is not slow. It is not boring. It is not typical. SEI is financially strong. It is innovative. Jt is different. 
If you want to find out how you can be a part of our success ... come talk to us. 
Resume Submission  September 22  -October 7  
Information Session  Thursday, October 4 Career Resource CenteRoom 114 Flanner Hall  6:00p.m. rv  
Interviews  Friday, November 2nd  

www.seic.com/newhire 






'\ 

Mentors Achievers Challengers Pursuers 



). 
! 
Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
Wednesday, October 3, 2001· 
Equities and Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Information Session Center for Continuing Education, Room 100 6:00 -8:00 PM 
Friday, October 5, 2001 
Women's Firmwide Luncheon 
University Club, Stadium Room 
12:00 -2:00 PM 
RSVP to maria.bavaro@gs.com 
Gold1nan 
Saehs 

MINDS. WIDE DPEN~M www.gs.com 
Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local laws.© 2001 Goldman, Sachs & Co. 

•/
/, 
,'/ 
-
Wednesday, October 3, 2001 

The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
coach Debbie Brown. "Toledo played very -well. They cer­tainly played better than their averages in all of their areas. They were pretty fired up." 
Notre Dame put themselves in a hole early in game four. The Rockets shot aces and kills left and right to build an early 21-12 lead. 
"We got aced a few times in that game so we just dig our­selves a hole early in the game and just had a hard time getting the points on our serve to catch back up," Brown said. 
The Irish committed 19 ser­vice errors on the night. Other than senior Malinda Goralski and junior Keara Coughlin, every Irish player to take the court put up at least one 

experience@screenblast.com 
starts off quick has the advan­tage. The Irish did exactly that. 
The Irish blocked three of the Rockets' first four attack 

errant serve. 
Notre Dame cut the Toledo lead to three, but couldn't pull any closer and lost 30-27 to force a decisive game five. 
With the new rally-scoring system, points 

"/ think that it helps to get our first five-game match out ofthe way ... 
Kristy Kreher outside hitter 
continue to be scored each time the ball hits the floor, but in game five the winner only needs to score 15 points. With so few points, the team that 
attempts, w i t h Goralski assisting 
on  all  
t  h  r  e  e  
plays.  As  

the lineup shifted; sophomore K i m Fletcher 

Watch me. Catch me. Play me. Use me anytime you like. Now there's a place where you are truly part of the action: The drama. The music. The sci-filhorror. The comedy. Original creations from 
users like you. Screenblast'M-experience it. 


moved into Goralski's middle blocker position. She contin­ued where Goralski left off, scoring two kills off the slide and combining with Bomhack on a block to put the Irish up 

11-4. 

Toledo scored four consecu­
tive points to cut the gap to 
11-8, but would never come 
closer. Freshman Emily 
Loomis scored two of Notre 
Dame's final four points, 
including the game-winner. 
"I think that it helps to get our first five-game match out of the way and come out with a win," said senior Kristy Kreher, who led the Irish in kills with a match-high 19. "We know next time that could happen that we're confi­dent winning five-game matches." 
Despite losing two games, the Irish performed well in many aspects. Notre Dame hit .329 for the night, including a .375 mark in game two and a .412 attack rate in the decid­ing fifth game. The Irish also finished with 16 blocks -a statistic Brown saw as essential 
"/ don't know that we
to the win. B u t "I think as a anticipated that they behind a team, actually we Goralski
would be as strong as
blocked pretty kill, two
they were. They played 
well," Brown aces from· said. "One thing at the top oftheir game Loomis we talked about and kills
and really tested us." 
was committing f r o m with their mid­Kreher dles and slowing Melinda Goralski 
a n d down their mid­
middle blocker Marcie 
dles a little bit." 
While the Irish 
focused on the Rockets' mid­
dle hitters, Toledo outside hit­
ter Becky Radomski racked up 
a season-high 18 kills in the 
five games. Lindsey 
Kretzmann added 14 kills on a 
.333 hitting percentage. 
"Becky really displayed the type of player she is tonight," Toledo coach Kent Miller said in a release. "She's now start­ing to play way she was before having knee surgery last year." 
Notre Dame put itself in a hole early, letting Toledo score the first three points of game one. The Irish cut the Rocket tied it up 16-16 mid• way through the match on a Kristen Kinder kill before Toledo built another three­point lead. 
The Irish fought back to tie 
Vero Italiano 
Catalino'• Tn.ttoria Downtown South Bend 
the game at 25. Then Kreher 
scored a kill after a time out 
to give Notre Dame its first 
lead of the night. 

But Toledo came back again, scoring off of two Irish attack errors to reach game point with a 29-28 lead. Two kills later, Toledo won the game, putting the Irish down 0-1 for the second consecutive match after Geo·rgetown took game one on Sunday. 
"We knew that we had to go out and play our side of the net," Goralski said. "I don't know that we anticipated that they would be as strong as they were. They played at the top of their game and really tested us." 
The Irish came out stronger in game two, building an early 8-4 lead to force the home team into a timeout. Notre Dame maintained four-point lead until a Toledo streak cut the lead to 22-21. 
Bomhack 
N o t r e 

Dame tied the match at 1-1. 
In game three, Notre Dame built its 2-1 match lead with its strongest effort of· the night, leading by as many as 13 points. Goralski recorded five kills and three blocks in the match, while Fletcher added two blocks and a kill. 
Despite the loss, Miller was impressed with his team's performance against a ranked team. 
"The players are beginning to believe they are a good team and they should believe that," the Rockets coach said. "We saw that tonight with how we came back against a very good Notre Dame team." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter.l@nd.edu. 

INFORMATION MEETING: Wednesday, October 3, 2001 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
7:00 p.m. 

ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 

The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 3, 2001 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles look to ring in more victories 
their best to fill Angie's role," senior Jaime By KATIE McVOY Dineen said. "It's difficult." Associate Sports Editor "We've worked through [the new configu­
ration] at practice and it seems to be coming 
It's the halfway mark of the season and the more natural for them," Schroeder-Biek said. Belles are looking to start over. After finish­Early in the season, the Belles fell behind ing the first half of the MIAA season with a 1-quickly in the game and had difficulties 6 record, the Saint Mary's volleyball team is recovering. Ineffective communication was ready to turn things around and start bring­key in the early losses and is something Saint ing home victories. Mary's will be focusing on in tonight's con­
"(A win tonight] is incredibly important." test. head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "It "We have to come out and play strong at could really set the pace, raise the confi­the beginning," Dineen said. "The more we dence and the thing is I know [the team] can talk, the better we do." do it." During Saturday's victory over Rochester, 
Tonight the 2-11 Belles Saint Mary's played a will take on the Britons of quick offense that gave Albion (3-4 MIAA, 12-7 "[A win tonight] is the team early leads in overall) on the road for the all three games. With an
incredibly important." 
second time this season. MIAA win on the line, Albion was Saint Mary's that early lead will be first MIAA match-up of the Julie Schroeder-Biek important and the season in early September Belles coach . Belles are looking for and the inexperienced ways to keep that Belles team fell to the offense running. Britons 3-1 in four very "We did a lot of serve close games. Now, with half a season of r~ceives [in practice] so we have good pass­experience, Saint Mary's is looking to turn es," Dineen said. "If they serve we want to things around. have a good pass to the setter so we can 
"We played [Albion] so early we hadn't have a quick offense." really had a good sense of our offense yet," Albion is currently on a season-long four­Schroeder-Biek said. game winning streak. However, coming off of 
The Belles have settled into a consistent 6-a win themselves on Saturday, the Belles are 2 offense since those early season games. confident in their ability to play, even though However, with the recent season-ending they will face the Britons on the road. injury of leading player Angie Meyers, they "[Travelling] doesn't really have a big have still had to make adjustme:r;its. impact on them," Schroeder-Biek said." [A 
Freshman Alison Shevik moved to the win] always feels good." strong side, leaving her position on the right Action gets underway tonight at 7 p.m. at side to Andrea Bella. The Belles have played Kresge Gym at Alma. KATIE LARSEN/The Observer 
three games with this new configuration and Freshman Michelle Gary blocks the ball down in a recent match. After a ti seem to be adjusting. Contact Katie McVoy at rough beginning to the season that saw a 1-6 campaign, Saint Mary's
I: "The freshmen are coming in and doing mcvo5605@saintmarys.edu.
'I looks to secure more victories in the second half of their 2001 season. 
,
r ----------------
---­
l 
I 

,, \' I UNION I I 
I 
,, 
l I, ; I 
I oct 3 -oct 9 I 

lnterrace Forum 5:30pm csc I
I 

11 Stepping Stones11 Discussion 6:30-8:00pm Walsh Hall Basement (dinner provided) ). 'I 11After September 11 11 Lecture Series 7:30pm 101 DeBartolo 
·, I 
,, Coffee at the CoMo 8:00-9:00pm l 03 Coleman-Morse 
1, :1, 
,,. I I 
., 
!/ 
,; Ii \1 I ii=P•il ND Cinema "Amores Perros11 7:00pm Hesburgh Library Au'J orium I AcoustiCafe. 9:00pm -midriight. Lafortune Huddle.· free. 11 Shrek11 and "Toy Story". 10:00pm. 101 & 155 DeBartolo. $2/$3. I
'r 
I 

t ): I I 
i'I ~ Hypnotist Tom Deluca 9:00pm Stepan Center 1st Friday 12:00-1 :30pm lntercultural Center
,, I ii;••
I 

1'
,, Football Pep Rally 6:30pm JACC
r 
!;1 I Men1s Swimming: Notre Dame Relays 6:30pm Rolfs Aquatic Center 11 Shrek11 and "Toy Story11 7:30 & l 0:00pm. 101 & 155 DeBartolo. $2/$3
•

lt(! I
,, I 
ND Football Home vs. Pittsburg 1:30pm.
I! I I '='½Ii I 
Open Karaoke l 0:00pm-1 :00am Lafortune Huddle
' 
},'} J Midnight Breakfast 12:00am North Dining Hall I
I 

I'\ 11 Shrek11 and 1'Toy Story". 7:30 & l 0:O0pm. l 0 l & 155 DeBartolo. $2/$3 
~,~ 
~•, I I 
:·1 I
i) I 
'] r'.t l=l!lil ND Softball 11ND Classic" 11 :0Oam Ivy Field I'. 
I/> 
I 

Official Opening of The Max Student Services Center First Floor Lafortune 
-~"'­
I

[ 
t, ,, 
I I i1,
i -; 
(, I I 
/, 
,••,.

ti, /1. New Student Discount Cards Passed Out: 5:00-8:00pm SDH 
I
if, 
~/• I 5:00-7:00pm NDH 
,, I 
(, 7:00-9:00pm New Student Services Center 1st Floor La Fun
V; 
i.ft' I lnt'I Film Festival 11 My Sweet Little Village" 7:00&9:00pm Montgomery Theatre 
/, sponsored by 
)' Miami of Ohio Wind Quintet Concert 7:30pm Annenberg Aud. (free) /,' ,, I Student Union ndsg Town Hall Meeting 8:00pm Notre Dame Room Lafortune 
'. -,
11,. Executive Cabinet
I 

/;,
/1 ii) ii, > -------------------------------­
ll, 
n, 
,1 
-







Wedne~day, October 3, 2001 

The Observer . TODAY page 19 

Puzzle by Brendan Emmett Quigley 
32 Former Sen. 50 Early IBM PC 57 "... and Bentsen go-with goes" 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
FOXTROT 

TOM KEELEY 

THERE ARE, IT 
GENERALLY, THE l.ON&ER 
Lll<E, 1'+ CLUSS DEPENDS. 
iHE CLUB, THE FARlHER 
IN HERE. How I Do 'YOU KNOW WHICH ONE ,._..::::$-~­
To USE? 
.,.'I. \ 
0. ,".... 
You CAN HtT THE BALL. 
"­

BILL AMEND 
UM,AAE You TRY CH01<1NG SURE YOU DorifT UP A 
HAVE THAT LITTLE. 
8ACl<WARD? \ / 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

-

"Thanks for the guitar lessons Mom. I'll be realizing my dream of sex with multiple 
...
partners and illicit drug use in no time." 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

NOTRE DAME MEN'S 
-
C::-R-.11>A'f ~ Oc ,OBER.. ST-H~ NOTRE DAME vs. GEORGETOWN 
-
14>tre J)moo J{~ 
Fri~av, Oc+ot>er S+h • 
GET A FREE HOCKEY SOCK WHILE SUPPLIES LAST! 
67 Emphatic assent 68 Islands off 
Portugal 
69 Word in Brazilian place names 
70 George Orwell's alma mater 71 Doomsayer's sign 
DOWN 
1 Proof ender 2 Script add-on? 3 November 
winners 4 Chiang's 
headquarters 5 Memo starter 6 All square 7 1948-49. Berlin 
event 8 Shape up 9 Vegetarian staple 
10 Small soldiers 
11 Stared stupidly 
12 Company built on the profits of Pong 13 Intrinsically 

36 Annoying sort
21 Attach 37 Political pawn
22 Cheat, slangily 
Gonza.lez
23 "Amscray!" 
38 Muddies
24 Midway 

41 Position of
alternative 
authority
25 Go past 

44 "Star Wars"
midnight, critter
maybe 

29 Iran-contra 45 Miss breakfast, name 
say 30 Having a lot to 48 Rio Grande city lose? 49 Michelin 31 Arctic competitor 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mary Beth Hurt, Olivia Newton-John, Linda Hamilton, Lynn Anderson, Kent McCord, Melissa Sue Anderson 
Happy Birthday: If you con­trol your emotions, it will be smooth sailing this year. Take a disciplined approach toward decisions and finish what you start. Offer to take on extra JObs only ifyou have time to do them. Stick to a good diet and avoid putting on unwanted pounds. Your numbers: 6, 19, 23, 27, 32, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Opportunities to upgrade your standard of living will come through connections at confer­ences. Make sure that you read between the lines when signing contracts. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Stimulating debates will allow you to show off your intelli• gence. Give seminars that will be informative and innovative. 
000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may have too many choices, but that's OK as long as you don't try to do everytning. You will be talkative, which can lead to some stimulating conversa­tions with people you respect. 
000 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will attract attention if you get out socially. Don't be afraid to have fun, but draw the line if someone is trying to fast-talk his or her way into your heart. This individual will wait until you are ready if he or she is truly inter­ested. 0000 
LEO Quly 23-Aug. 22.h Don't leave any document unturned when it comes to investments or financial matters. You stand to make money, but be prudent, invest in a potential moneymak-
Birthday Baby: You have a set mind and a clear vision of what you want. You are sensible and know instinctively when to make your 
-
move. Your overreaction to opposition will mean that you often get your way. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) i0 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
er.000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Your relationship with colleagues 
will improve 1f you exercise 
patience and understand their 
feelings and dilemmas. Your abil­
ity to relate will enlist the allies 
you need for future work-related 
changes. 000 
. LIBRA (Ser.t. 23-0ct. 22): 
Disharmony will result in low­
ered vitality. Your system can't 
take the heat right now. You will 
feel much better by focusing on 
your interests. Spend time with 
friends rather than with family. 

00 -­
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
You need to catch up on all that correspondence on your desk. Make those phone calls and pay your bills. You'll feel much better when the slate is clean again. 
0000 SAGIITARIUS (N~ 22-Dec. 2.1): 
Financial opportunities will increase your bank account. Money that you don't necessarily work for may play a role. Some­one you love is trying to I)ut restrictions on you. Handle this situation carefully. 0000 • 
CAPRICORN {Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Make love, not war. You will get along well with your partner or overreact to everything he or she says. The choice IS yours, so take a deep breath and focus on being sensual and lo~g. 00 
AQUARIUS ijan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Your words will be taken out-of context if you're evasive with co­workers or employers. Make per­fectly clear wnat you think your duties are. If there is a discrepan­cy, sort it out quickly. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will do best at social func­tions. You should be enjoying yourself, not working yourself to death.000 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 "Enough already!" 7 Hollywood quadruped 11 Mall chain, with "The" 14 1844 Verdi work 15 Look _ (visit) 16 Took mess 17 Getting a raise, maybe 18 Toast, in a diner 19 Good thing to break 20 Relative of Capri pants 23 Slipper part 26 Like a triathlete 27 Jim Davis dog 28 1968 Aretha Franklin hit 33 Muesli morsel 34 "Bye" word_s? 
35 Like crossword solvers 39 Scandinavian currency 40 Mardi Gras 
V.I.P. 41 Subj. of a 
Fortune profile 42 "Do Ya" rock grp. 43 Principles 45 Dobbin's tow, 
maybe 46 It's atop a face 47 Be a hustler 50 Voodoo charm 53 Island ring? 54 Starbucks 
hardware 55 President's aide 60 Eggnog mo. 61 It's bought in 
bars 62 Like thank-yous 66 Sitcom planet 
51 14-Across, e.g. 52 Baseball Hall-of-Farner Conlan 
56 _ quam videri 
(N.C.'s motto) 

58 It may be rigged 59 Primordial stuff 63 High dudgeon 64 Ring count 65 Body shop fig. 
-

Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 
. SMC Volleyball p. 18 
. MLB, p. 12 
. 
Isiah Rider, p. 14 

. 
Wisconsin, p. 14 



Wednesday, October 3, 2001 
ND WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 

Irish netters ground Rockets 
• Notre Dame finally subdues Toledo in a marathon 5-game match 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
It wasn't a test they expected, but the Irish volleyball team passed with flying colors. 
Notre Dame's five-game victory (29-31, 30-25, 30-17, 27-30, 15-11) at Toledo Tuesday night marked the first time an Irish match has gone to five games since the N C A A switched to a rally-scoring sys­tem this season. The unranked Rockets (7-4) gave the No. 22 Irish more than the visitors bar­gained for. 
"We definitely got a good chal­lenge," said Notre Dame head 
see IRISH/page I 7 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles to face Bulldogs 



PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer Irish de~ensive specialist Keara Coughlin passes the ball against Nebraska Sept. 8. No. 22 Notre Dame needed five games to finally dispatch Toledo Tuesday night, the lrish's first five-game match this year. 
FOOTBALL 
. SMC will travel for first time in a month, eager to prove skills against Adrian 
By KATRINA KALASKY 
Spores Writer 
The Belles hit the road today for the first time in a month to take on Adrian College. 
Saint Mary's has played the last seven 
games on their own field and are eager to test their skills on the road. 
"It's 
exciting to 

finally trav-Johnson el as a . team," junior captain Lynn Taylor said. "We usually play well against them and we have the opportunity to win today." 

Adrian is currently in eighth place in the MIAA conference with a record of 3-8. They only have two returning seniors along with nine fresh­men on the team this year. 
The Belles• main source of trouble will be senior Beth Amman. She is the Bulldog's leading scorer and is on this week's MIAA offensive honor roll. The Bulldogs are led by head coach Rick Gutierrez who is in his fourth season 
with the Bulldogs. Despite their 
4-1  loss  on  
Saturday  to  
Albion,  the  

Belles feel fairly confident going into the game. 
"We beat Adrian twice last year so we're going in 

"The system is working ... rm happy with the way the girls are playing .... 
Bobby Johnston Belles coach 

with a lot of confidence," said sophomore Wendy Irvin. 
Adding to Saint Mary's self­assurance, freshman Jen Cocannon was named the MIAA's player of the week. 
The Belles are also coming out of a successful week winning three out of their four games. 
"This game will be a really good preparation for Saturday when we play Hope," said junior Heather Muth. ''They [Hope] barely beat us earlier in the season and we hope to beat them this time around." 
Coach Bobby Johnston does not plan on changing the Belle's game plan. 
"The system is working," 
said coach Johnston. "I'm happy with the way the girls are playing. We're going to go in with a good attitude and we're · ready for 
the second half of the season. If we play well and have a good mentality, we can win this one." 
The game is at 4 p.m. at Adrian College. 
Davie hopes cheers drown out Panthers 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
Bob Davie wants Notre Dame Stadium to be a loud, hostile environment Saturday when the Pitt's­burgh Panthers visit. He wants the p i t t offense to h a v e trouble communi­cating at the line scrim­mage just like his team did in College Station, Texas and Lincoln, Neb. 
"I hope our crowd responds the way that the crowds in the last two places we have played in ... " Davie said. "I hope [the Panthers] are not able to do a whole lot at the line of scrimmage." 

But Davie knows that most of the hostility in the Stadium Saturday will be directed at him -not Pitt. 
His team left the field to a chorus of boos against Michigan State. After the first 0-3 start in school his­tory, he expects more boos. He just hopes the boos are well-timed. 
"If they boo, make sure they boo when Pittsburgh is at the line of scrimmage, 
trying  to  change  those  
plays," Davie said.  
Offensive  tackle  Kurt  

Vollers shares Davie•s out­look on the booing. 
"Hopefully they can boo us when the opposing offense is on the field to get them riled up," he said. 
Vollers said he under• stands why the fans are booing but at the same time, it hurts to get booed. 
"I can't say I blame them 
see FOOTBALUpagelS 

. SMC Volleyball vs. Calvin, Friday, 7 pm. 
OBSERVER
. ND, SMC Swimming, ND Relays, Friday, 6:30 p.m.
SPORTS 

oniine classifieds 
. ND Cross Country, ND Invitational, Friday, 4:15 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Soccer vs. Georgetown, Friday, 7:30 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 









