
Tied together by land 
Dale Earnhardt, Sr. killed 
Two hundred years ago this campus was owned 
One ofthe greatest stars in auto racing history 
Monday

by the Potawatomi Indians. Today, The Observer 
diedfrom injuries in a last-lap crash at the 
looks at Native Americans at Notre Dame. 
Daytona 500. 
FEBRUARY 19,

In Focus . Pullout 

News . page 7 
2001 




The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO 90 

ND welcomes stories of Cabrini Green 

By MARIBEL MOREY 
Assistant News Editor 
The invisible bubble that provides comfort, safety and a homogeneous culture at Notre Dame has no creator. but its presence is still visible. Students stroll down campus at two in the morning without the impending fear of robbery -or of being shot at 20 times simply because of their dorm or their major. 
The three former gang members and Father Bill Tomes who shared their experience with students at the CSC on Sunday afternoon have a different bubble in their inner-city Chicago neighborhood. 
"It's like having a wall around [Cabrini Green-]. There's an invisible wall and nobody comes in," said Tomes. 
These men are specifically from Cabrini Green, a housing project that accommodates generations after generations of impoverished families and is infamous for its gunfights. The three joined different gangs in their early teens. 
"We are gangster disciples. We had to shoot to get in and shoot to get out," said Darryl. a former gang member. "Some days we couldn't get to school." 
Cabrini Green seems to reach the sky in a myriad of dark floors, abandoned and wired public housing where people live in constant fear of violence. 
Upon graduating from the University of Notre Dame, Tomes began his mission to help end conflict in the Cabrini Green neighborhood. 
"( had a calling in [the Basilica] to work with peo­ple in conflict," said Tomes. 
The conflict between gangs in Cabrini Green has 110 definite creator, but the gunfights continue to defend territory, drugs and money among gangs. "Nobody's responsible for the gangs. A gang is just based on groups where one group does not like you," said Greg. 
The most popular groups are the Black Stones, KC, the Vice Lords and the Gangs of Disciples. 
"The purpose of the gang is for the protection of your neighborhood. They come in and shoot-they don't care who they're shooting at. It could be your mother or your sister," said Tron, a current gang member. "It's all about territory and drugs." 
Tron, unlike the other two former gang members, has three brothers in other gangs. "All four of us are in three different gangs. They're just my little broth­ers -I don't look at them as Vice Lords or Gangs of Disciples," he said while lowering his head and fid-
ELIZABETH LANGfThe Observer 
Former gang members, from Chicago visited the Center for Social Conc1erns Sunday to discuss the dangers of life in a ganJ,. 
geting with a Notre Dame basketball poster. 
All living together, these four brothers might sit down for dinner, but they might face each other in gang conflicts. Greg, a former gang member, inter­jects, "but blood is thicker than water." 
Tron, Greg and Darryl did not purposefully join gangs to be a menace to society, they said. 
"I was accidentally shot so I went out for revenge," said Greg. School was also difficult for him because the schools were mixed with different gangs. There were two lunchrooms -one side for the opposition. "I was glad for the day to end and to be able to talk about it," he said. 
see GANG /page 6 
I ITTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 

Students organize 'Vagina' readings 
Observer Staff Report 

Following College president Marilou Eldred's announcement that student organizations could not officially sponsor a reading of The Vagina Monologues on campus, groups of students have been banding together to read the play on their own. 
One student reading of the controversial play will be held tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the Regina Dance Studio, The Observer learned Sunday evening. While the students who are doing the dramatic reading declined comment, several students on campus had learned of the reading late Sunday night. 
Twelve LeMans residents gathered in the Tower Room Sunday evening to read the play, said Le · Mans resident assistant Sarah Chaudoir. 
"We thought it was an important piece to be read," Chaudoir said. "[The reading] was to elimi­nate some of the mystery." 
College administrators prevented the play from being officially sponsored by any campus groups in late January, when College president Marilou Eldred told student organizers she would not allow the play on campus this year. The play first was performed at Saint Mary's last February, and drew two sold-out performances in Carroll Auditorium. 
Eldred's decision to cancel the play was based in the concern that it would draw more controversy than healthy discussion after members of the Parents Council, alumnae and the Board of Trustees expressed discontent with the play's pur­pose. The issues of lesbianism and explicit discus­sion of sexuality have caused some members of the Saint Mary's community to question its appropri­ateness for a Catholic campus. Since the decision, students have arranged a speak-out on the issue and protested with a sit-in in front of Eldred's office. 
The nationally acclaimed play, currently playing off-Broadway, is authored by Eve Ensler and addresses issues of women's sexuality. In particu­lar, the movement to perform the Monologues on college campuses is part of an effort that began three years ago to stop violence against women. 
Several public and private colleges and universi­
see MONOLOGUES /page 6 


Judicial Council revisions r4esult in election improve01ents 
sight committee in order to Under the new rules, tickets turning in a petition and start­on a WVFI broadcast together
By ERIN LaRUfFA 
rewrite certain campaign were allowed to begin cam­ing the campaign. before the start of the official 
News Writer 
bylaws. The full senate then paigning as soon as they "Deciding what's campaign­campaign period. The two had to approve those changes. turned in their petition and ing and what's not is a very thought that being interviewed Following months of working "In the past, there wasn't had it verified. Previously, can­hard thing," said Norton, cur­on the radio was identical to to reform campus election much communication between didates turned rently serving being interviewed· by The bylaws, the Judicial Council the Senate and Judicial their petitions as student Observer and Scholastic maga­
"We knew going in that
pulled off a feat it could not Council," said Bauters. "We in, but had to body vice zine, two media sources the accomplish last year: an had a lot of success, and I'm wait until we wanted to make sure president. "If rules allowed tickets to talk to almost flawless election of very happy with the changes midnight of a we were very disciplined your friends before the official campaign,Notre Dame's next student we made with the Senate." set day when are telling according to Norton.
this year. " 
body president and vice presi­One new rule requires candi­all candidates people you're However, she and dent. dates to get 300 students to began cam­running, is O'Donoghue later decided 
"We knew going in that we 
sign a petition before entering paigning at Tony Wagner that cam­appearing on the radio maywanted to make sure we were the race. In past elections, can­once. paigning?" have been a campaign viola­
Judicial Council president
very disciplined this year," said didates needed only 150 signa­The reason Norton has tion, and so O'Donoghue made Judicial Council president tures. for this firsthand the Judicial Council aware of Tony Wagner. "By increasing the number of change, ac,~ording to student experience of the dilemma their appearance. The Election 
To improve the election signatures from 150 to 300, we body president-elect Brooke candidates faced under the old Committee of the Judicial process, Wagner and John reduced the number of sponta­Norton, was that candidates rules. Council decided. to suspendBauters. Judicial Council vice neous candidates," Bauters struggled with the distinction While running for student O'Donoghue and Norton from president in charge of elec­said. "It made candidates a lit­between what was and was not body vice president, Norton campaigning for two days.tions, had several meetings tle more responsible for their acceptable for them to do in and presidential running mate with the Student Senate's over-decision to run." the interim period between Brian O'Donoghue appeared see ELECTION /page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, February 19, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Voting for no one 
As a lifetime resident of Palm Beach County, r consider myself an expert on ballots and elec­tions in general. By unofficial count, there are about two dozen of us from Palm Beach County currently on campus, but even if all of us man­
aged to vote incorrectly (and I'm marginally sure I did it right), that doesn't come close to explaining why 55 people on this cam­pus didn't vote correctly in Thursday's student body election. 
For starters, 27 people abstained from voting in this election. That's right. 
27. There are 27 people on this campus who went to the trouble of showing their ID to an election official, taking a ballot, and then deciding to return it empty. Think about it. There are 27 
people at this University (11 in Dillon alone} who, when reflecting back upon Election Day, will proudly say to themselves, "I put a blank ballot into a ballot box, and therefore, I deliber­ately voted for no one." 
I'm guessing a handful of them were making a silent political protest, assuming that in the midst of counting the ballots, one election offi­cial would scream, "Mother of God, someone turned in a blank ballot! We need to reform our ways!" and then proceed to leap out a window. 
Of even more concern are the 28 people on this campus who turned in invalid ballots. This number doesn't include the relatively small number of write-in ballots -that is, those stu­dents felt too confined by the given choices, and therefore opted to write in the name of a cher­ished childhood pet. I don't even know how it's possible for someone to turn in an invalid bal­lot. An abstention, I can sort of understand, like maybe in all the excitement of voting, people just forgot to mark their candidate, or maybe their dorm's judicial board failed to provide adequate writing utensils. An invalid ballot in a runoff election, though, is pretty unsettling. 
For the 4,000 of you who didn't vote, let me briefly describe the ballot in question. It was small, blue, and featured two sets of names, each accompanied by a line wherein voters were expected to make an identifying mark indicating which of the two sets of names they preferred. Twenty-eight people failed to do this correctly. Twenty-eight of our classmates man­gled the voting process so horrifically that their ballot couldn't even be considered an absten­tion. 
I'm venturing a guess that some of these peo­

ple didn't want to hurt either candidate's feel­
ings and thus attempted to vote for everyone, 
though no rational explanation can justify vot­
ing for both parties in an election with only two 
candidates. At least the abstainers didn't waste 
any ink (unless they wrote, "I am leaving this 
blank in a silent political protest.") Voting for 
both people is something Archie Andrews does 
when he can't decide between Betty and 
Veronica for Miss Riverdale. Voting for both 
people shouldn't be happening at the university 
level. 
So, for the 55 of you who either forgot to 

mark down a selection or are too polite to par­
ticipate in democracy, take solace in the fact 
that you at least tried to vote. and that's all that 
matters. Four thousand students didn't vote at 
all, and in the long run. that's what ~orries me 
the most. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Kate Nagengast Amanda Greco Nicole Haddad Graphics 
Finn Pressly Jose Cuellar Sports Production MollyMcVoy Kathleen O'Brien Viewpoint Lab Tech Kurt Bogaard Ernesto Lacayo 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam arui na&lion periods. The Observer ia a member of i:hc Associated Preu. All «production risl>u ;uc rc:1ervcd. 


Finn Pressly 
Senior Staff Writer 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Lecture: "Family, Faith  . Roundtable discussion:  
and Organization in the  "Universalism and its  
Homeschooling Movement,"  Others," Naomi Schor,  
Mitchell Stevens, Associate  Professor of French, Yale  
Professor of Sociology,  University. faculty and  
HamiltoH College, Room  graduate students includ­ 
119, O'Shaughnessy Hall,  ed, Auditorium, McKenna  
noon  Hall, 10 a.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
U. Virginia fraternity plans to go alcohol-free 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
About 35 University of Virginia men were selected last week to recolonize Phi Delta Theta fraternity, the first fraternity on Grounds to have alcohol­free housing. Although the new Phi Delt chapter is breaking the tradition of frat parties at the University, it is part of a nationwide trend in which fraternities are "going dry." 
The University's Phi Delta Theta chapter lost its charter last summer after allegedly refusing to adopt the national dry policy. Phi Delt's national policy states that all chapter facilities must be alcohol free. 
The old Phi Delt brothers continued as a fraternity after losing their char­ter and changed their name to Phi Delta Alpha. 
"We did everything we could to 

DARTMOUTH COLLEGE 
Atty. gen. denies murder claims 
HANOVER, N.H. 
The state attorney general's office Friday afternoon denied claims that the murders of Susanne and Half Zantops resulted from an affair Half Zantop had with an unidentified woman. Under the headline, "Love affair eyed in N.H. killings," the Boston Globe Friday reported, "Investigators believe the killings of Dartmouth College professors Half and Susanne Zantop were crimes of pas­sion. most likely resulting from an adulterous love affair involving Half Zantop." However, in the press release Friday, New Hampshire Attorney General Philip McLaughlin said, "Investigators do not hold the belief attributed to them in the Globe story." The Globe attrib­uted the information to anonymous "authorities close to the case." In response to this, McLaughlin said, "No responsible and knowledgeable law enforcement official would provide the Globe with the information it attrib­uted to official anonymous sources." In response, Globe Editor Matthew Storin told The Dartmouth, "We're very comfortable with our story... We stand by our story." 
NATIONAL WEATHER
LOCAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 19. S Day South Bend Forecast 308 Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. AccuWeather ~fer daytim: cooditiCffi and high ~ 
,~li;_-~-r..:-::-::--dt......,,-,_10s 
FRONTS: 
........... ..a...a. ......... 
COLO WARM STATIONARY
C 2001 AccuWeether, Inc. 

4-~-~4.~Q~ ~ d 
ShoWers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
~ Aa.act•f~ Prwa Gr-.phlot,!'-Mt 
University ofVirginia 
compromise" with nationals, said Phi Delta Alpha President Rob Abendroth. 
But the two groups could not reach a compromise, and the original Phi Delta Theta members broke off from their national organization. 
"We felt. as the alumni did, that if you are 21 and want to drink respon­sibly, you should be able to do so in your own home," Abendroth said. 
Several prospective members of the new Phi Delta Theta, who do not have a house, said they cannot comment until they officially become a fraternal colony, which may happen within a 
Wednesday 
. Theatre: "The Winter's Tale," by William Shakespeare, performed by actors from The London Stage, contact LaFortune Box Office. Washington Hall, 7:30 p.m. 
. 

UNIVERSITY OF ILLIN0IS 
Legislation limits women at frats 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 

In a move the University of Illinois Panhellenic Council believes will further ensure the protection of sorority members and reduce liability, the council passed legisla­ture earlier this month known as the "Alcohol Free Resolution," which will take effect at the beginning of the fall 2001 semester. The new legislation includes a clause restricting the number of sorority members who may attend a social event at a fraternity house where alcohol is present. The resolution allows for only one­third of the sorority chapter membership to attend fra­ternity events at fraternity houses. Laura Kuhn, junior in communications and vice president of public relations for the Panhellenic Council, said the new resolution is an extension of "Alcohol Free 2000," an act that prohibited sororities from co-sponsoring events at fraternity houses when alcohol is present. Kolusis guidelines, which regu­late the activities attended by fraternity and sorority members, already have in place rules outlining how events are to be run and classified. 
week. 
Among fraternities at the University, the national organizers of Phi Kappa Sigma and Delta Sigma Phi adopted alcohol-free policies in July and December, respectively. Theta Chi expects to go dry nationally by 2003 and Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji) will recolonize as an alcohol-free house in the 2002-2003 school year. 
About 1,500 of 5,300 houses in the North American Interfraternity Conference, an umbrella organization for 68 fraternities nationwide, have gone dry. Only 300 had gone dry a few years ago, The Washington Post reported in December. 
Fraternities adopting alcohol-free policies is a "trend we've seen increasing," Inter-Fraternity Council president Justin Saunders said. 
Thursday 
. Discussion group: 
"Academic and Athletic Excellence: Forging a New Future for Intercollegiate Athletics," Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., University president. Monogram Room, Joyce Center, 8 p.m. 

Atlanta  58  45  Las Vegas  
Battirnore  43  34  Memphis  
Boston  37  32  Milwaukee  
Chicaoo  44  26  New York  
Houston  70  60  Philadelphia  

65  47  Portland  48  38  
62  50  Sacramento  55  47  
38  21  St. Louis  58  40  
41  35  Tampa  75  57  
41  34  Washington DC 45  34  



Monday, February 19, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
FOOTPRINTS IN TIME 
Young's second lecture discusses violence 

. Saint Mary'shosts politicalphilosopher as part of series 
By KATIE McVOY 
News Wricet 

In a colloquium co-spon­sored by the Notre Dame gov• ernment department and the Saint Mary's philosophy department, political philoso­pher Iris Marion Young said that power and violence 
that the

are opposed "Power requires 
belief existsto each 

communication. that police
other. Young 

based her Vi,olence is mute. " forces can exercise vio­
discussion on lence
a paper she 

Iris Marlon Young 
at their dis­
wrote dis­

political philosopher cretion.
cussing an essay by H a n n a h Arendt on the nature of violence and power. 
"Power requires communi­cation. Violence is mute," Young said. 
Young discussed that the commonly held idea of power, command and obedience is not really power. True power requires the consent of the people. Violence, on the other hand, usually weakens the true consent of the people. 
"The use of violence in poli­tics always endangers power," Young said. 
Young used the background on power and violence lay down by Arendt to criticize official violence -"the use of 
the duties of the state is acceptable," Young said. "I challenge this." 
Young encouraged a retro­spective analysis of the use of official violence. She held that the only way to decide whether a violent act was jus­tified was to look at its conse­quences. 
Violence must be justified case by case through appeals to their consequences -pre­vention of a greater harm. Young said the effects of the violence must be "immediate 
and contained." 
Young said 
"I believe 
this belief is 

dangerous," said Young. 
Young also criticized the use of military force for the preservation of human rights. Again, she believed the acts of violence caused by, the mil­itary in these cases are not justified by default, but need to be examined on a case by case basis. 
Following this background, the colloquium was opened for discussion. Young came to Saint Mary's as part of the Women in the Philosophical Landscape Lecture Series. She also spoke Thursday night in Stapleton Lounge on self-sufficiency, autonomy, and welfare justice. 

violence by states in the name of carrying out their duties as states," according to Arendt. 
"It is common to believe that the use of violence for 
She is a professor of politi­cal science at the University of Chicago and studies public policy and feminist social thought. 
Irish and 
Latino 
Images In 
American Film 


Charles Ramirez Berg 
University of Texas, Austin 
Monday, February 19, 2001 
4:00 P.M 
210/214 McKenna Hall 
--~_,i-:"°,
I~-· .--"-f:f 
-I.-~~ ·t~. 

.....:.-.,,,,... ,::, ~ 
Institute for Latino Studies Keough Institute for Irish Studies 

Monday, February 19, 2001 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Election 
continued from page 1 
However, on appeal the Student Senate reduced the penalty to one day. 
Allowing candidates to begin campaigning as soon as they turned in their petition also meant that the campaign peri­od increased from 10 days to three weeks. Norton said she is unsure if the three-week peri­od represented an improve­ment. 
"I would like to research whether it was better for the student body to have the longer campaign," Norton said, adding that she feared stu­dents felt "saturated" with posters. 
"Students aren't paying attention three weeks before the election. They just don't care," said Ryan Becker, who lost to Norton in the runoff election last Thursday. 
Student government may look into shortening the cam­paign to two weeks, according to Norton, a length Becker also recommended. 
One significant improvement under the new rules, according to Bauters, was the newly cre­ated Executive Committee to oversee violations hearings. The full Election Committee, made up of one representative from each residence hall, elected four of its members to serve on the Executive Committee. Bauters and Wagner then appointed two additional council members to the committee. 
Committee members -Anne Traynor of Cavanaugh, Son Nguyen of Carroll, Paul Ybarra of Dillon, Michelle Bottitta of Farley, Alyse Latour of Pangborn and Eric Hedin of Stanford-never actually had to hold a violations hearing this year, but Bauters said he was able to delegate other election responsibilities to the six committee members. For example, one member was responsible for voting by stu­dents studying abroad, while others organized the debates. 
"Tony and I are very grate­
ful for their hard work and 
commitment." said Bauters, 
adding that another student. 
Carolyn Allen. volunteered to 
help the committee and also 
played an important role in its 
functions. 

One minor drawback of not having any campaign viola­tions was that the Judicial Council was not able to deter­mine the effectiveness of the new hearing structure cen­tered on the Executive Committee, Wagner said. However. he is confident that the system would have func­tioned well. 
"We have a lot of faith that it will work in the long run," he said. 
Another improved rule was the one allowing candidates to campaign on election day, loved to call me at 1:30 in the morning. After 2, he would leave me silent messages. I would have five voice mails when I woke up in the morn­ing," said Bauters, who gave a great deal of credit to the dedi­cation and caliber of the can­didates themselves. 
"I think the changes were the candidates. The candidates this year were just superior this year to anything Notre Dame has ever had," Bauters said. 
Similarly, Wagner said that 
the lack of 
violations 
according to  "Students aren't paying  was  at least  
Norton. In previous elec­tions, she  attention three weeks before the election. They  in part a trib­ute to the candidates.  
said, not being  just don't care. "  "All  six  
allowed to do  tickets were  
created  a  very consci­ 
problem  Ryan Becker  entious, very  
because can­ fonner presidential candidate  honest, very  

didates could get in trouble even if their supporters cam­paigned for them. 
Candidates and their sup­porters were also allowed to use e-mail, a previously forbid­den campaign tool. 
In fact, last year the Election Committee forfeited the ticket of Hunt Hanover and John Micek during the runoff elec­tion after Hanover sent e-mails to students in Alumni and Breen-Phillips Halls. 
Beyond changes in campaign and election procedures, a combination of factors made this election run better than last year's, according to the people involved in the election. 
"Overall, I think it was very successful. I'm not sure how much I would attribute that to the rules changes alone," Wagner said. "A lot of credit goes to John and the Election Committee." 
Norton and Becker similarly praised Bauters and the Judicial Council for making the election run smoothly. 
"I think the Judicial Council did a better job this year. I think they did a flawless job," said Becker. He espe­cially credited Bauters for always being available to help candidates. 
During the campaign, 
Bauters held daily office 
hours and told candidates 
they could call him in his 
dorm room between 7 a.m. 
and 2 a.m. 

"One of the candidates 
Places still available!!! 
Saint Mary's College 28th Annual 

European Study Tour 
Travels in Ireland, Scotland, England, and France May 23 -June 22, 2001 
Courses offered in Biology, Music, Philosophy, and Psychology 
Information Meeting Tuesday, February 20 6:30 -7:30 P.M. Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center 
For questions, contact Prof. Parisi 
tparisi@saintmarys.edu 

kind to each 
other. That set the tone for how the elec­tion went," Wagner said. 
Although the election went well this year, Bauters won­ders if most students even noticed. 
"Last year, everyone made a big stink ... because it was such a mess," Bauters said, adding that many students expressed the opinion that student government was "terrible" after last year's election. 
"This year it went well and no one recognized that student government worked this year," Bauters added. 
While he said the election was significantly better than last year, Bauters believes the Judicial Council should consider altering certain rules. 
Bauters does not plan to push for any other rules changes during the rest of his time in his current posi­tion. Before leaving office on April 1, Bauters also has to oversee other elections. such as for class officers, and so will not have time to push for other changes. He will, however, write a transitional report to whomever takes over his position, though he does not know exactly what that report will contain. 
"There are still changes that need to be made," he said. "The rule on hall and club endorsements needs to be reconsidered. I don't think we should censor dorms and clubs." 
Currently, although campus news media can endorse can­didates, other student organi­zations or residence halls can­not. Bauters added that the campus media does not always realize how they can harm candidates. In particular, he mentioned one article in The Observer that some candidates felt unfairly portrayed them either as feminists or as less capable of addressing female issues on campus. 
One potential problem in this year's election occurred when candidate Demetra Smith, who finished third in the primary debate, decided to endorse the ticket of Norton and Brian Moscona in the runoff election with Becker and his running mate Nikki McCord. 
"There was some confusion about it because we weren't sure of the process," Smith said. She talked to both Wagner and Bauters to make sure it was okay for her to make the endorsement. 
Bauters said he was con­cerned Smith did not under­stand the "potential political risk to her" in making the endorsement. If Becker and running mate Nikki McCord were disqualified from the runoff election. then the next highest primary vote getters ­Smith and her running mate Andre Yogeld -would have been in the runoff against Norton and Brian Moscona. 
In other words, Bauter said, Smith would have been run­ning against a candidate she endorsed. However, he added that no rule prevented Smith from making an endorsement. 
Smith's endorsement first appeared on the Web site www.ndtodav.com. Other can­didates who ·did not make the runoff, were upset because they felt they did not have the opportunity to make an endorsement. However, Becker said he doubts such endorse­ments would have effected the result of the runoff vote. 
CENTP:R FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES wrrH... 
ACCION 
A MICROLENDlNG ORGANIZATION ASSISTING SMAU BUSINESS OWNERS WITH POOR CREDIT HISTORY TO OBTAIN LOANS TO IMPROVE AND BUIW THEIR BUSINESSES 
10·12 WEEK INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE IN: ALBUQUERQUE CHICAGO EL PASO NEW YORK CITY SANANTONIO SAND/EGO 
BENEFITS: COMPEnTIVE COMPENSATION 3 COLLEGE CREDITS HOUSING PROVIDED BUSINESS EXPERIENCE 
Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns and MCOB Undergraduate Office 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 20, 2001 
INTERVIEWS FEBRUARY 21 & 22 AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

ATION 
Monday, February 19, 2001 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Australia's Labor party posts gains: 
Australia's conservative government was shaken Sunday by a disastrous defeat in a key state election as many of its supporters flocked to a right-wing, anti-immigrant party. The opposition Labor Party, which won over­whelmingly in the Queensland state elections on Saturday, was favored to repeat its victory in federal elections expected by November. 
Cuba criticizes Iraq air strikes: 
Cuba blasted the "Yankee-British" air attack against Iraq as a "criminal" act Saturday, and one newspaper in the country depicted President Bush as a gunslinging cowboy. "I just killed my first civilians in Iraq. Now I feel like a president!" read a front-page cartoon in Juventud Rebelde, Cuba's communist youth newspaper. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Roger Clinton arrested for DUI: 
Roger Clinton, the younger half-brother of former President Clinton, was arrested for investigation of drunken driving, police said Sunday. Clinton, 44, was arrested early Saturday after an officer spotted him driving erratically through this oceanside town, according to a news statement. The officer stopped Clinton's Ford Expedition sport utility vehicle and smelled alcohol on the driver's breath, according to police. ease the estimat­ed alcohol level. 
Florida wildfires close highway: An 8,500-acre wildfire burning out of control closed a 10-mile section of Interstate 4 on Sunday and forced the evacuation of dozens of homes. The wind-driven fire near Polk City in central Florida had grown overnight from 2,000 acres and jumped to the south side of I­4, a heavily traveled route between Orlando and Tampa. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Man killed in chainsaw accident: A 
Marion man died from cuts to the neck he suf­fered when the chain saw he was using to cut firewood kicked back on him, police said. Philip Waggoner, 38, suffered the injuries about 8 p.m. Friday. "When we arrived at the scene, the chain was off the chain saw, and it was lying on its side," Grant County sheritrs Lt. Mike Andry said. "{Waggoner) was lying there about 60 to 70 yards away from his pickup truck with blood leading from his body." Andry said Waggoner had severed blood vessels in his neck. 
Market Watch 2/19 

Dow 
10,799.82 -91.20

]ONES 
., 
Composite
Up.: Same: 
Volume:
l,136 216 
NIA
~' 

Nasdaq: 2425.38 -127.53 NYS:£:"'" :'-r:·····•''•'y.}~i)l&J:.;~-,--@¦ S&P 500: 1301.53 -25.08 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURlTY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NORTEL NETWORKS (Nn -32.77 -9.75 20.00 
JDS UNIPHASE (JOSU) -20.64 -9.31 35.81 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -8.32 -2.56 28.25 
SUN M!CROSYSTEM {SUNW) -14.70 -4.00 23.19 
NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ) -560 -3.27 55.13 
SOUTH KOREA 

AFP Photo 

South Korean police staind guard outside the Daewoo Motors plant In Pupyong. Riots began after the company began laying off over 1,700 workers. 
Police clash with auto workers 
rushed to a hospital, while make itself more attrac­Motor and other business­
Associated Prcss 
a few union leaders were tive to possible buyer es that had expanded with 
SEOUL taken to a police station General Motors. Hundreds borrowed money. 
Throwing stones and for questioning, the state of workers have since Daewoo Motor has been 
spraying fire extinguish­Yonhap news agency said. refused to leave the main surviving under court 
ers, dozens of Daewoo Union officials could not plant to protest the dis­receivership since it filed 
Motor Co. workers briefly immediately be reached missals. for bankruptcy in 
clashed with South Korean for comment. The union plans to strike November. Its debts are 
riot police Sunday in a Also on Sunday, police at Bupyong and two other estimated at $10 billion. 
rally to protest a mass lay­began seeking 30 union Daewoo plants on In return for emergency 
off by tbe ailing carmaker. leaders for arrest on Monday. loans from banks, it has 
The clash occurred charges they caused the The government of shed 5,494 of its 16,149 
when about 300 Daewoo company tens of millions President Kim Dae-jung workers, or 34 percent. 
workers and their famil:les of dollars in losses by says layoffs are needed to General Motors began 
tried to break a police line leading illegal strikes. streamline the country's talks with Daewoo in 
to enter Daewoo's ma.in A civil court in Incheon, bloated companies and September to take over 
assembly lines in west of Seoul, issued regain investors' confi­the carmaker. However, 
Bupyong, 18 miles west of arrest warrants for the dence in the economy. there has been little 
Seoul. labor leaders. The 1997-98 Asian progress because GM was 
One worker was hit in Daewoo Motor laid off financial crisis triggered reportedly reluctant to 
the head by a stone and 1,751 workers Friday to the collapse of Daewoo proceed without layoffs. 
Sub recovery robot in for repairs 
Families of nine men and teen-age ascent drill. Twenty-six people were
Associated Preas 
boys missing since the sinking are rescued, but there have been no signs 
HONOLULU pressing the Navy to recover any bod­of the nine missing during a continu­
The Navy's efforts to scan the ies that may be entombed in the ing Coast Guard search. wreckage of a Japanese ship sunk by Ehime Maru, even if that means con­The Navy announced Saturday it a U.S. submarine were set back ducting what experts say would be a would conduct a court of inquiry, its Sunday when a deep-sea robot was monumental and unprecedented sal­highest-level administrative investiga­removed from the sea for repairs. vage of the entire ship. tion, into the accident. The inquiry 
The Navy is using the robot to eval­Videotape taken by the robot since will focus on the actions of the uate the feasibility of raismg the 190-Friday showed the exterior of the Greeneville's three top officers: The foot Ehime Maru, which sank minutes ship seemingly in pristine condition, submarine's captain, Cmdr. Scott after the USS Greeneville surfaced but the Coast Guard said the full Waddle: its executive officer, Lt. underneath it Feb. 9. extent of damage had not been deter­Cmdr. Gerald K. Pfeifer, and the offi­
Late Saturday, crew members using mined. cer of the deck, Lt. j.g. Michael J. the robot noticed a tear in the tether The Navy said the deep-sea robots Coen. used to raise and lower it. Navy offi­may be too big to enter the wreckage Three admirals with subpoena cials said a separate sonar device, to retrieve any bodies from it. powers will oversee the public hear­which was being towed through the The commercial fishing training ing, which could result in a recom­ocean depths scanning for debris vessel was headed toward fishing mendation for courts-martial, said near the shipwreck, still was in use. grounds 300 miles southeast of Oahu Adm. Thomas Fargo, commander in They said the video-equipped robot when the USS Greeneville collided chief of the Pacific Fleet. The board is could be ready to use Monday. with it during an emergency rapid-scheduled to convene Thursday. 
page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 19, 200 I 
Gang 
continued from page l 
Gangs were groups of friends that supported each other. By being with his friend, Darryl became part of the gang. "They were chasing me when I was with him, so I just joined," he said. 
Darryl has moved away from Cabrini Green with his family. "My dream is made -I don't have to steal for money, my life is better and my kids are being raised well," he said. "The only thing that will lead me back to gang-banging is if someone does something to my family or my guys." 
Just walking outside on the streets near their neigh­members' faith in God. "Gang members pray a lot because of the possibility of being killed. You should see how sincerely they pray." Tomes puts his life on the line every day in Cabrini Green. and the neighborhood respects him, including these three men. 
Even though Greg and Darryl already got out of the gangs, they still want to see change in the neighborhood. 
"Open up youth centers. Give kids something to do after school. If not, they see the rich guys on the corner with drugs and jewelry," Darryl said. "Give them something to do after school that is fun because if not they won't come back." 
Even though nothing will happen to you once you leave 
the gang, it's 
better not to 
borhood is "I was running wild -join, said 
dangerous. Greg.
shooting and beating

Greg is about ''Once you 
to move out people up. I was doing a get in, you of Cabrini lot ofdamage... might not 
Green and have a bad currently has experience. a job -a Greg Maybe you're major accom­fonner Chicago gang member under the 
p Iis h men t. "[Tomes) helped me get a job. I've been working 6-8 months," he said. "If you don't have a job, you've got to do what you've got to do.ff Greg refers to drug deal­ing or other illegal activities. 
However, Tron said that it wasn't hard for him to get a job because he hadn't been to jail like most of his friends. "It's changed now, you used to not be able to get a job," said Tomes. 
Their decisions to join gangs years ago affected many other people. "I got tired of the expression on my mother's face every time she would come and get me out of jail," Greg said. 
"I was running wild -shoot· ing and beating people up. ! was doing a lot of damage, said Greg. "I wasn't getting nothing out of it." 
"l'd be looking for fights ­

slamming and banging. We'd 
go around looking for fights," 
Darryl said. When asked how 
many people he has killed, 
Darryl responded, "Don't ask 
about killing people -we 
won't talk about that." 
Father Tomes works with the 

gang members and even 
stands outside during gun­
fights. He stresses the gang 
wing of a rich 
guy where you have access to lots of money and drugs and you will never be shot. That's a good experience," said Greg. "But if after three days you get shot and paralyzed. then [the gangJ does not want anything with you." 
Each of these men's experi­ences was different, but they were once children raised in a neighborhood surrounded by violence. Tron, Greg and Darryl could not go to the youth center as children because it was located in the other gang's territory. 
"It was on their turf. All the activities were on their side," said Greg. Now there are two centers. one on each opposi­tion. 
While students in Notre 
Dame read course packets 
on how to serve the com­
munity and bring peace to 
the world, 10-year old chil• 
dren. like these men had 
been, chose violence 
instead of school every day 
because it is fun. 
"Those guns for the army 
-they have them on the 
street. We were doing it 
ourselves so it was fun," 
said Greg. "When you're 
young it is fun." 

NEWS BRIEFS 

E-mail outage disrupts campus: The tech­nology-dependent Notre Dame community faced a challenge as e-mail was unavailable from Friday afternoon to Saturday morning. 
"It's always a bad thing to be off the air for 13 hours, but those things do happen," said Larry Rapagnani, assistant provost for computing. 
A hardware failure on the email server caused the problem. The disruption was unrelated to previous Internet problems that were caused by service provided from Ameritech. 
"Big computers have hardware failures, just like little computers," said Rapagnani. 
Technicians worked through the night to fix the email server. Other technology, such as the Internet and I-I and I drives were not affected. 
"We're hopeful that it won't happen again," said Rapagnani. 
Schor to lecture today: Naomi Schor. Benjamin F. Barge Professor of French at Yale 


University and internationally renowned feminist critic, will deliver Notre Dame's 2001 Provost's Distinguished Women's Lecture at 4:45 p.m. today in the auditorium of McKenna Hall on campus. 
Titled "The Crisis of French Universalism," the lecture will be followed by a reception and book signing. 
Schor 
_ . 

Schor also will lead a roundtable d1scuss10n with Notre Dame faculty and graduate students to discuss "Universalism and its Others," at 10 a.m. Tuesday in the auditorium of McKenna Hall. Discussion participants are encour_a~ed to. read Schor's essay, "French Femrn1sm 1s a Universalism," which is available in 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Schor has written extensively on 19th-century French literature. Her work is centered on femi­nist theory, aesthetics and cultural studies, and she is a founding editor of "Differences: A Journal of Feminist Culture Studies." 
. "' 
Amencan Heart itlla Association.V 
FJgMlng Ha-,; DIN&N and Siroka 
ONE OF THESE CAN CHANGE 
A THOUSAND LIVES 

SUPPORT MEDICAL RESEARCH 
Monologues 
continued from page l 
ties nationwide are currently partic­ipating in the V-Day College Initiative, which grants colleges the free use of the script until Feb. 21. The initiative is founded to help edu­cational institutions take a stand against violence towards women. 
While tonight's reading is not a per­formance and is not being sponsored by any campus club or group. it has caught the eye of student leaders, who have been observing the debate over the Monologues since last year's performance. While Board of Governance has yet to issue a formal statement about the Monologues, stu­dent body president Crissie Renner will be in attendance at tonight's reading. 
"I found out about it from one of the women that is reading it." Henner said. ''I'll probably swing by." 

Jackie Eswonhy waa killec.J by e drunk driver one week after her high school graduation. 
Whal ahould you do to atop• f,i•nd lrom driving drunk? 
Whataver you have to. Friends don't let trlanda driva drunk. 


Whether You Are Buying A New Home, Or Refinancing Your Current One... 
iila -' . '';I . .--, ' ' 
...,._ 
' ~ 
..........J 

1--· 1~' 

We Can Help With Great Rates! 
Main Office 

19033 Douglas Road 
P.O. Box 7878 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-7878 219/239-6611 
'O:a 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION

G:t 
You con bonk on us

l(UAl NOUSIN, 
LENDER to be better 
Office Hours Monday -Thursday 
8:30 a.m. • 5:00 p.m. 
Friday 
8:30 a.m. • 5:30 p.m. 



Monday, February 19, 2001 
The Observer .. NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Dale Earnhardt dies of injuries sustained at Daytona 500 
Experts discuss life exp1ectancy, age increases to 85 

Claims by some scientists that humans expectancy of 100 is achieved, if ever," capable to living well past 100 years. 
Associated Press 
in this century will have a life expectancy said Olshansky. "Superlongevity," he said "is simply not of 100 or even 120 are not realistic and The researcher was the head of a panel possible."
SAN FRANCISCO 

not supported by the trends measuring of experts that on Sunday analyzed trends Hayflick said that even if the most com­Human life expectancy has increased the rates of death, said S. Jay Olshansky in human life expectancy at the national mon causes of death -cancer, heart dis­by three decades since 1900 and may of the University of Illinois, Chicago. meeting of the American Association for ease and stroke -were eliminated, "thereach 85 for babies born in this century, "We anticipate that many people here the Advancement of Science. increase in life expectancy would be no
but that may be near the upper limit 
today will live long enough to witness a Olshansky said there are no "magic more than 15 years." .
unless science finds ways to dramatically life expectancy of 85 years, but everybody potions, hormones, antioxidants, forms of With those death causes gone, he said,slow the aging process, some researchers alive today will be long dead before a life genetic engineering or biomedical tech-the true cause of death would besaid Sunday. 
nologies that exist revealed: the aging process. 
today that would per­Aging, he said, is a decline on a molecu­
mit a life expectancy of lar level that makes people "increasingly 
120 or 150 years as vulnerable to disease" and that this 
some people have process is not receiving much research 
claimed." attention. 
Leonard Hayflick, an Instead, most aging research, said expert on aging at the Hayflick, concentrates on the age-related University of California, diseases that can be easily identified, such San Francisco, as heart attack, stroke, cancer and denounced what he Alzheimer's disease. 
called "outrageous Nature designed humans to peak physi­claims" by some scien­cally at about age 20, to assure reproduc­tists that humans are tion and survival of the species, he said. 
Notre Dame Travel Office Presents ... 
There will be an important 
ESSENTIAL EUROPE 
June 8 -July 2, 2001: 25 days, 11 COUNTRIES
meeting for all those intere~sted 
ENJOY YOUR FIRST ALUMNI TOUR AS AN ND GRAD ON THE SPEC­TACULAR ESSENTIAL EUROPE TOUR specifically designed/or the Class o/2001!
in running for positions iof 
Graduation is closer then you think-and with graduation comes CELEBRATION! BRfNG A BROTHER, SISTER, and COUSIN 
class officers, 
OR FRIEND and make this a lifetime memory! 
From the sun-kissed beaches of Greece to the glorious art of
Off-Campus Co-Presidents and 
Florence, Europe's infinite variety of people, place, and traditions is the perfect setting for your celebration tour. 
Off-Campus Senator, 
Travel with fellow ND grads and capture the flavor of England, France, Belgium, Holland, Germany, Switzerland, Liechenstein, Austria, Italy, the Vatican City, and Greece. 
on Monday February 19tln at 
All-inclusive Land Programs $2389. Approximate airfare from Chicago 
$815, taxes not included. Book Land and Air by Feb. 26th and save $125.
7:45pm in Montgomery 
Click onto http://www.nd.edu/-alumtrv/eseuintr.htm and learn more about this special trip ... contact Barb Hunter in the Notre Dame Alumni Association at 219-631-8724 or toll free at l-800-634-263 J or AESU Alumni World Travel for non-specific tour info: 1-800-638-7640. 
Theater, LaFortune. 
Don't miss out on this once in a lifetime opportunity! 
Associated Press 
DAYfONA BEACH, Fla. 

Dale Earnhardt, one of the greatest stars in auto racing his­tory, died Sunday from injuries in a last-lap crash at the Daytona 500. 
The seven-time Winston Cup champion had to be cut out of his car after slamming into the wall on the final turn of the race while fighting for position. He was taken to the hospital accompanied by his son. Dale Jr., a young NASCAR star who finished second in the race. 
"This is understandably the toughest announcement I've ever had to make. We've lost Dale Earnhardt," NASCAR pres­ident Mike Helton said. 
Earnhardt died instantly of head injuries, said Steve Bohannon, a doctor at Halifax Medical Center. 
"There was nothing that could have been done for him," he said. 
The death comes at a time that driver safety issues were under increased scrutiny. Three NASCAR drivers were killed in wrecks last season. 
The accident happened a half­mile from the finish of the NASCAR season-opener. won by 
Michael Waltrip. 

Earnhardt, running fourth, grazed Sterling Marlin's car, crashed into the wall at the high-banked fourth turn going about 180 mph, and was smacked hard by Ken Schrader. 
Earnhardt's death was the biggest blow to auto racing since three-time Formula One cham­pion Ayrton Senna was killed in the San Marino Grand Prix in Imola, Italy, in 1994. 
Neil Bonnett. one of Earnhardt's best friends, was killed that same year in practice for the Daytona 500. Rodney Orr died in a wreck three days later, also in practice, and was the last driver killed at the track until Earnhardt's accident. 
"NASCAR has lost its greatest driver ever, and I personally have lost a great friend," NASCAR chairman Bill France Jr. said. 
It was the second major wreck in five years in the race for Earnhardt, a driver known for his aggressiveness on the track. He flipped wildly on the back­stretch near the end of the race in 1997 hut was not seriously hurt. He came back to win the race the next year on his 20th try. 
Earnhardt is the leader among active Winston Cup drivers with 76 career victories. He also had the most victories at Daytona International Speedway, 34. 
The death made Waltrip's vic­tory virtually meaningless, as drivers mourned one of their greatest stars. 
"My hEiart is hurting right now," Waltrip said before news of Earnhardt's death was announced. "I would rather be any place right this moment than here. It's so painful." 
Earnhardt was doing what he does best throughout the race, being th,e crowd favorite and bumping other cars for position. 
He was a factor throughout, and spent the final laps close to his son and Waltrip, trying to block Marlin. Marlin had just passed Earnhardt, who was try­ing to get back by him on the low side of the track when there was slight contact that sent his Chevrolet spinning up the bank­ing. 
It turned to the right and hit the wall, and Schrader could not avoid hitting Earnhardt's car. Both cars slowly began to slide down to the bottom of the track as the rest ofthe field raced by. 
Earnhardt Jr. quickly left the postrace celebration for Waltrip, and sprinted to the infield care 
'!)(ii 
AFP Photo 

Seven time Winston Cup Champion Dale Eamhardt's sun glasses filled with checker flags after he won his 8th consecutive Twin 125 Qualifying race In his Chevrolet at Daytona International Speedway. 
center to be with his father. It Last May, Busch Series driver took several minutes to get the Adam Petty, the grandson of elder Earnhardt out of the car, stock car great Richard Petty, and he was quickly taken to was killed in Loudon, N.H. Two Halifax Hospital. months later, Winston Cup dri­
Meanwhile, the crowd at ver Kenny Irwin also was killed Victory Circle was chanting at New Hampshire International "DEi, DEi," for Dale Earnhardt Speedway. lnc., which owns the cars of his NASCAR truck series driver son and Waltrip. The celebra­Tony Roper was killed in tion, which usually lasts 30 min­October at Texas Motor utes, ended quickly. Speedway. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 8 BSERVER Monday, February 19, 2001 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
NEWS EDITOR. Anne Marie Mauingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR• Lila Haughey 
SroRTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith ScENl! EDITOR, Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR, Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR• Eliza~rh Lang 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER, Chris Avila 
SYS'I'EMS ADMINISTRATOR, Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR, Adam Turncr C0Nrk01.U.R1 Bob Woods 
GRAPHICS EDITOR, Jose Cuellar 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGF.RIGF.NEJW. INF0.........••..•631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR!Ass-r. ME.. ................. .631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NF.WS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer .viewpoint. I@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu 
ScENF..........................................................631-4540 obscrver.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
obscrver.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADM I NISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE Visit our Web site at bttp:llob,n=r. rul.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, fc:irurcs and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-chc 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online kalures for spe­

and raics ofprinc ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives co search for 
about The Observer 
10 meet che editors and 

arcides publishcd after 
siaff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is chc independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by che students ofthe Universiiy of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial concenr, induding advcrrisemencs, is not governed by policies of che administration of either insrirucion. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advcnisc:menrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriiy of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant M.maging Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present che views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lectcrs is encouraged. 1..crrers co the Editor must be signed :,nd must include contact informacion. 
Quntions rtg«rding Obin11rr p,,lit:in should be direct­¢ to E,lirvr in ChefMil,e O,nnoliy. 

In the Kuk Dong factory in southern Mexico, workers are struggling for recog­nition of an independent union. Since Kuk Dong produces apparel for Nike and many universities, their struggle strikes at the heart ofthe sweatshop issue and the upcoming Notre Dame decision on whether we should join the Worker Rights Consortium. 
The workers' dis­content grew from their poor working conditions, including forced over-time, rotten cafeteria food, low wages and verbal and physical abuse. Due to these conditions, workers decided that they needed to replace their union. Their union was affiliated with the PRI, a con­servative party that had ruled Mexico for the past 60 years and it was failing to act. Government and company unions are often the only one that exists at colle­giate apparel factories. These unions are imposed from above. They are undemoc­ratic and they care little for their work­ers' rights. If workers are to achieve jus­tice, they need not only the right to orga­nize. but also the ability to create a democratic union without intimidation. 
As often happens in labor struggles, the company fired the principal organiz­ers at Kuk Dong to set an example. This caused the workers to rebel and go on strike. The company got the police to crackdown on the strikers and two work­ers were hospitalized due to police vio­lence. Next, thinking it had defeated the workers' campaign, the company invited the workers back to the factory. However. when workers tried to return they were told they had to pledge alle­giance to the government union. Some workers agreed, but several hundred workers refused. Of the workers that refused, some were forced to resign, some have found new jobs and others 

are still waiting for justice. 
This labor unrest might come as a sur­prise to anyone who had read the March 2000 monitoring report by Pricewaterhouse Coopers. It stated that the Kuk Dong management "has estab­lished relations with employees that were both flexible and transparent" and "workers felt that they could air their grievances in a fair and effective way." However, if workers get beat-up for striking by representatives of the state, are they going to tell the truth to a repre­sentative from an outside multinational accounting company who drops by for a couple days? This shows that monitoring should be done purely by local non-gov­ernmental organizations with a year­around presence that workers can trust. 
The most immediate and strongest reactions to the situation at Kuk Dong, have come from United Students Against Sweatshops (USAS) and the Worker Rights Consortium (WRC). Students at dozens of campuses have distributed leaflets, rallied and successfully urged their president to write Nike a letter expressing their concern. The WRC responded by sending a six-person dele­gation to investigate and interview work­ers. It quickly released an initial monitor­ing report finding that there are "strong grounds for concern that Kuk Dong may stand in violation of provisions of [univer­sity} codes of conduct governing child labor, physical and verbal abuse, pay­ment of minimum or living wages and free association." 
What distinguishes the struggle at Kuk Dong from hundreds of sweatshop strug­gles in previous years, is the public atten­tion that this issue has received. This story was initially able to get out to stu­dents, who then mobilized in support of the Kuk Dong workers. Student activism provided this issue with wider media cov­erage, including an article in the New York Times. Now that it is under the public eye, Nike shows no sign of cutting and running -and the workers have a fair chance at getting back their jobs and forming an independent union. 
By observing these events, it becomes clear that the only reason the workers stand a chance is because this issue has been transparent since their struggle began. This is the first time the WRC has monitored a factory and the advantages of its public disclosure of monitoring results are now evident. 
The anti-sweatshop movement requires public disclosure of working conditions and monitoring reports. If we did not have public disclosure, then sweatshops would be relegated to the internal responsibility of private organi­zations Oike the Fair Labor Association or Notre Dame), instead of being the public responsibility of all consumers and workers. It is the latter group who has fought sweatshops for over a hundred years and to shut them out of the strug­gle now would be a terrible mistake. It is only by having Notre Dame join the WRC that we can guarantee this disclosure. 
While Kuk Dong does not produce any apparel for Notre Dame, there is no rea­son to believe that our factories are any better. Kuk Dong is important because the anti-sweatshop movement is not about making sure that just one school (or corporation) can claim their apparel is "sweat-free." Instead, the movement's goal is to improve the conditions of all workers, starting with the collegiate apparel industry. As one school, Notre Dame has power over factories produc­ing our goods, however by joining the Worker Rights Consortium that power can be multiplied many times. We should join with the 71 schools that belong to the WRC. We can assist worker struggles at Kuk Dong's around the world by breaking the veil of secrecy that permits sweatshops to exist, through implement­ing disclo·sure. 
Aaron Kreider is a third year sociology graduate student. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

LAJAVES OF ECSTASY 
f>.RE PULSING 
THROUGH MY 
SOUL. 

i .____~ _ __,, 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You do not reform a world by ignoring it. " 
George Bush former president 

( ~HE 

Monday, February 19, 2001 JnSERVER page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dangers of focusing 
on clothes 

Just when I thought I'd seen it all. yesterday's Viewpoint laughed in 
my face. I didn't think anything could top the shock of witnessing a "pre­
miere" university masquerade a blatant act of censorship behind a mask 
of religious devotion, but one Domer stepped up to the challenge. I am 
compelled to respond to Sheila Payne's article from the Feb. 14 issue of 
The Observer, not because ofmy disdain for her opinions, but because 
the implications in her letter are despicable and dangerous. 
"Do your clothes say 'I respect myself and am proud to look so nice' or 
do they say 'I want to seduce you'? 
Do you really want to say that? 
Do you think it's right to say that? 
Aro you prepared for the answer?" 
I only hope that Payne was oblivious to the implications in her conclud­
ing sentiments. She is preying on one of the most painful questions a 
woman faces when she has been raped. Rape victims feel an incredible 
amount of guilt and shame because of ideas like those expressed in 
Payne's article; ideas that suggest the length of a woman's skirt deter­
mines her right to say no to sex. I have no doubt that the letter was writ­
ten with the best of intentions, but that only shows how deeply ingrained 
these negative attitudes are. If you truly want to help women feel confi­
dent and self-assured, this is not the way. The belief that a woman must 
expect to be harassed or violated because of the way she dresses perpet­
uates a vicious cycle of violence. It also perpetuates the guilt and stigma­
tism that make a devastating situation even harder to overcome. 
Megan Kovac 
sophomore 
Walsh Hall 

February 15, 2001 

Reviving a.Lenten tradition 
Think about reviving the ancient Christian tradition of abstaining from meat consumption during Lent. We respectfully invite all Christians to use VDLENT2001 as a period of reflection and prayer for all the innocent creatures currently condemned to the slaughterhouse and/or factory-farm. 
God willing VDLENT2001 will help you make a permanent switch to a healthy and compassionate meat-free diet. Try it. You'll be amazed by the physical and spiritual benefits. 
As a contemporary adaptation of an ancient tradition, we respectfully invite each participant to adopt a vegetari!l,n diet for each and every day between Ash Wednesday (Feb. 28) and Easter Sunday (April 15). 
Lent is a sacred and spiritual period for Christians the world over. Lent not only reminds us of Christ's undying love, but helps us to empathize more closely with His sacrifice too. Greater empathy with Christ, gained during the Lenten period. allows us to be more receptive to the needs of our neighbor. As Christ taught us our neighbor is s/he who suffers. Are there any that suffer more than those condemned to the slaughterhouse? Lent provides a perfect opportunity for us Christians to reflect on the plight of our defenseless neighbors; especial­ly our neighbors condemned to face the indignity and horror of the slaughterhouse. 
A vegetarian diet for Lent -simply an experiential opportunity or perhaps even a transitional period. It's your choice. Try it. You won't regret it. 
Antony Neesham 
Lincolnshi,.,, England February l7, 2001 
GUIEST COLUMN 
Smoke gets in your eyes -or does it? 
AMES, lowa 

It :is a sweet irony that Big Tobacco is paying $1.5 billion through 2003 for the American Legacy Foundation to air public service announcements slagging it off daily. It's turn­about and that has legally been determined to be fair play. According to Dr. Cheryl Healton, the 
Greg Jarrett 

foundation's president and chief executive officer, these commercials repre­
Iowa State 

sent an effort to combat 
Daily

corporate tobacco's "feel good, corporate citizen" image. 
"It is intended to he a wake-up call to America about the fact that 500,000 people die prematurely a year due to tobacco use in America -50,000 of those die from the tobac­co use of others," said Healton in a CNN inter­view. "Corporate citizen notwithstanding, a heck of a lot of Americans are dying prema­turely due to this product." 
Simply speaking, it is a 

propaganda campaign to combat the propaganda campaign of an industry with very deep pockets. 
Irony is nothing new to those of us addicted to tobaeco who routinely try to quit. You know the people I'm talking about. They smoke for 20 years and then kick it for two weeks and suddenly they are anti-smoking zealots. My grandmother had been smoking since Taft was president. One week, her pastor talked her into quitting and suddenly anyone who sat in her nicoiine-stained kitchen got an earful about how bad smoking was for you. 
As an on-again, off­again smoker since I was 18, l know full well what a h)1>ocrite I can be. I can ,:moke a pack a day for tvvo years, quit for one 31ear and rail against the system that got me hooked. Then one night at a bar I light up "just one.·· 
Next day I go back on the wagon for three mon1hs before I fall off for another year and a half. One long smoking binge is followed by a period ofalmost monas­tic abstinence and the end result is I've got more personalities living inside me than Robert Dmvney Jr., Gary Oldman and Sybil combined. 
They are merging, however. I don't flip-flop as much as I used to because nowadays, even 

ten to the miserable point where I don't · remember what I ever liked about smoking: I get the jones real bad and get my fix and rarely does it even feel good. 
I don't want to smoke, but it is so easy to get hooked and re-hooked, time and again. I can­not be one of these brash, proud-to-be-inhalin' smokers who talks about lighting up as though it were a right of birth. 
ThE1 fact is, those anti-smoking commercials, though heavy on the propaganda, are essential­ly correct. Only 20 years ago, they would have been laughable. Today they are well-received. 
We all accept that smoking is bad and if a heavy dose of intensely emotional imagery will keep kids from making the same mistake many of us made in our younger days then that's great. If the tobacco companies have to pay for it -all the better. 
Joe Camel may be the most insidious of all tobacco company creations. This loveable car­toon character has little appeal to adults. He was always there to make sure children learned brand recognition well before they were legally able to smoke. 
I know when I went out to buy my first pack of smokes to irritate my roommate, I looked at the many brands in the cigarette machine in the USAC laundry within easy reach of the playground and Ijust knew Marlboro was the brand I wanted. Reds, just like the cowboy whose face graced so many billboards back home you couldn't cross the Missouri in any direction on any bridge without seeing his weather-worn face and appreciating his rugged individualism. 
Of course, that cowboy 


like California. 
died oflung cancer. a fact not widely known until the American Legacy Foundation began run­ning commercials featur­ing the cowboy's brother -a man whose piece was long overdue for air­ing. 
I guess there is a fine 
line between rugged indi­
vidualism and fatalism. 
Smokers are not an 
oppressed subclass. but 
their numbers -our 
numbers -are dwin­
dling. I for one cannot 
wait until the day when it 
is as unnecessary to post 
"no smoking" signs in 
restaurants as it is to post 
"no spitting" signs. 
At this rate, public 
smoking bans will be 
unnecessary in five years. 
In fact, public bans will be 
the one thing that will 
keep people defiantly 
putllng themselves to 
death. Prohibition not 
only did nothing to stop 
Americans from drinking, 
it fueled a criminal sub­
culture that still exists in 
America. 
Cities need to relax and 
wait for the inevitable 
because nothing prolongs 
the inevitable like resis­
tance. I know I need to 
quit. Every smoker in the 
United States knows they 
need to quit. But the deci­
sion must be one of free 
choice. We already have 
the effective propaganda 
machine rolling; let's 
leave the brown shirt tac­
tics of public banning to 
less sophisticated states 

I may seem torn, sometimes I feel like it. But wanting to see the tobacco companies run aground while not wanting to see public smok­ing bans take effect are two ideas I am comfort­able holding at the same time. 
Be patient. It will happen naturally. Slowly, but naturally. 
This article first appeared in the Iowa State University newspaper, the Iowa State Daily, and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe 
C 
s
en@ 
page 10 Monday, February 19, 200 l 
French travel tips, thieves and a 
Hungarian massage 
4 September 2000 -Day One 
Call me out of town! l got my ticket and I used it. So here we are, 36 kids who don't really know each other, 36 kids alone together, here in France. Soon, we'll be calling Angers home; right now, we're working on its pronunciation. I've never been; I hope it's nice,, 
Mary Anne
Day one and mistake one: "So 

Lewis
how do you feel about arriving in France?" asked the flight atten­dant, in that cute French way of 
Scene Writer 
his. A proud smile on my face, I responded in a language other than my own, "Je suis tres excitee!" Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the problems of literal translation. "I am very excited!" earned me my first dirty look as a foreign­er, for what I learned just a few moments later was that this French phrase is often used to describe a completely different kind of "excited." 
6 October 2000 -Day 32 
Travel tip: If the woman at the desk smiles at you and says, "Here's the key to your room. Good luck!" don't trust her. Find somewhere else to stay. 
We had what is now the oh-so-infamous "Charnbre Huit," a room found only by following some rather frighteningly simple arrows with sloppy handwriting and concealed by an out-of-place opaque shower door in the middle of the hallway. We had the doctor from Mary Shelley's "Frankenstein" as a neighbor downstairs on the left and some dental torture instruments in the room on the right. As good as a sleeping pill -as you can imagine -among the sounds of eerie music coming from downstairs and drilling coming from the evil den­tist's crypt next door. The television's refusal to be turned off was very calming as well. 
2 November 2000 -Day 59 
Italian thieves tick me off. Four naive American girls combined with a stench. kept dense and putrid by the tight area of a not-so-spacious couchette, makes for quite the travel legend. The origin of the smell made his presence known when he emerged from under Katy's bed. While we screamed, he smiled, as if to say, "Screw you all, you silly girls. I'm here; I smell; you're scared, so I'm in control," until he realized that screaming could bring the police, and that could land him behind some bars -and we ain't talkin' chianti wine! 
9 February 2001 -Day 158 
Today I was spanked by a large Hungarian woman, and I liked it! The baths in Budapest are famous for the wide range of treatments available, ranging from mud to thermal. and for the variety of naked bodies. If you have an ounce of modesty in your body, it is guaranteed to be gone by the time you leave, whether because of the fact that you and everyone remotely close to you is naked, or because the woman giving you the full-body massage seems to be enjoying it almost as much as you are. Large women throw around their weight, and there isn't an inhibition in the place. It's a beautiful, beautiful thing. 
Mary Anne lewis would like to thank Greer Kuras. 
Kerry Walsh. Katy Disinger, and Casey Fitzpatrick for 
contributing information for this article. 

The views expressed in this column are those ofthe 
author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
From Vikings to Freud: The College of Arts and Letters 

By JACQUELINE BROWDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Does the thought of dissection make you sick? Not wild about accounting? As a child, did you have trouble creating a sturdy structure with your Lincoln Logs? Have no fear -the College of Arts and Letters may be just what you're looking for. 
The College of Arts and Letters is the oldest and largest unit of the University of Notre Dame, embracing the humanities, the social sci­ences and the fine and performing arts. Approximately 2,500 undergraduates and 750 graduate students are enrolled in its degree programs, organized into 18 departments and the Medieval Institute. 
It's been said that you can't underestimate the value of a good liberal arts education. Arts and Letters Dean Mark Roche affirms. "These disci­plines are both ends in themselves and useful in teaching students the formal skills that will be applicable beyond their specific discipline. We explore the complex structures of the contem­porary self and contemporary society -its organization, efficiencies and political struc­tures." 
The College of Arts and Letters allows stu­dents to explore their creative capacities, whether though creative thinking. dramatic performance or through critical analysis of a text. The areas of study are extensive and class­es are often crosslisted to allow students to take classes in the college, but outside their major. 
However, creative thinking doesn't always equal big bucks in the post-graduate world. Many Arts and Letters majors nearing gradua­tion fear that a more "practical" major would give them an edge in a working environment. Roche disagrees. "Notre Dame liberal arts majors have found challenging employment at Fortune 500 companies, prestigious consulting firms and financial service giants. 
"What they may lack in nuts and bolts of busi­ness, they compensate for with their ability to draw on a breadth of general knowledge, to think creatively and communicate effectively and to adjust to evolving or unexpected circum­stances." 
Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters gives students the opportunity to think creatively by offering a tremendous amount of variety in its 
~~~ 
~=­

classes. Here are just a few of the college's offerings. 
rnterested in the Vikings? Take HIST 240. Feel like royalty? Try HIST 241, "Caesars Emperors and Czars." Did Valentine's Day get you in the mood for romance? There's an English class dedicated to "Love in the Middle Ages" (ENG 335). For future ESPN sportscast­ers, the Film, Television and Theater depart­ment offers a class in Broadcast Journalism (FTT 308). Notre Dame may not condone frater­nities and sororities on campus, but you can learn about the Greeks in CLAS 450, "Greek and Roman Mythology." 
Want to know more about political theory. foreign policy or the motives behind the Cold War? You might want to take a few Government courses. Or you can learn about the "Anthropology of Reproduction"(GSC 448) -if you're curjous about that sort of thing ­through the Gender Studies Department. You can even channel the musician inside and learn to play jazz guitar (MUS 213}. 
For future lawyers or, possibly, future con­victs. the Sociology department offers a class in Criminology. Or you could get out your broom­stick and take "Witchcraft and Occult" (ANnl 
418) through the Anthropology department. For those contemplating their weekend's activities, the Theology department offers a class entitled, "Sin and Redemption" (THEO 225). 
Thinking existentially? Take PHIL 222. Oedipus complex? You can work on that in Abnormal Psychology (PSY 354). Or you can impress people at parties with your vast knowl­edge of books if you're a PLS major. You can even crosslist yourself into the business world and take an Economics course. 
Throw pots in a ceramics class (ARST 210) or learn Japanese and figure out what Pokemon is all about. Or, through the American Studies department, you can "Witness the Sixties"(AMST340) and find out what your par­ents were up to in their youth. 
The College of Arts and Letters offers a multi­tude of diverse courses, encouraging students to think creatively and comprehensively in several areas of study. Whether business, law school or post-graduate study calls, "[Arts and Letters students) have learned the basic skills that are requisite for success in any enterprise," says Roche. "They learn to think on their feet and out of the box." 
'l@"/ 


Tied together by land 
Two hundred years ago, this campus was owned by the Potawatomi Indians. Today, The Observer looks at the state of Native Americans at Notre Dame.
Monday, February 19, 200 I 
A regular feature ofThe Observer's News Department. 


Notre Dame has a long history of involvement with Native Americans. The University sponsors cultural events, such as a Hoop Dance in 1997. Many Native American students face some unusual challenges in life under the Dome. 

164 years ago, Notre Dame benefited from a close Sharing a heritage, relationship with local tribes, now the University is actively recruiting Native Building a future American students 
story by . MARIBEL MOREY 
Tradition in Notre Dame oozes  to help educate Native American  "We have to literally do it one  "That list is a national list ­ an  cial aid of all students, not just  
from the generations of Irish  children and has sometimes  at a time," said Bob Mundy,  inquiry pool that would give us a  Native American.  
families  who  attend  the  failed to do so.  director of internal operations  fair representation."  Marvin O'Connell, history pro­ 
University - but some Native  "There's a  historical reason  and overseer of Native American  Although all minorities are  fessor emeritus, does not see  
American students on campus  for Notre Dame interest that  recruitment. "We are simply  targeted for recruitment, the  that Notre Dame is any different  
might share a much richer histo­ goes beyond affirmative action  making an effort to enroll as  Native American relationship  from any other University in this  
ry with Notre Dame.  reasons  for  giving  Native  many [Native Americans] as  we  with the University is distinct.  regard.  
"This University would not be  Americans  can."  "The University does have an  "I think all white Americans  
where it is today without its con­nection with the Indians," said Mark Schurr, assistant professor of anthropology. The Pokagon Band of Potawatomi Indians lived in this part of the state until the Federal government forced their removal further west. The Band  opportuni­ties to c o m e here," said Greg Dowd associate professor of history. " T h e  ''Theres a historical reason for Notre Dame interest tha.t goes beyond affirmative action reasons for giving Native Americans opportunities to come here."  Before visiting individual Native Americans at their respective h i g h schools,  agreement with the Potawatomi have a debt tribe which was signed "This University would not four to five years ago. be where it is today without We set forth its connection with the some admis­Indians.,.sions and financial aid  to Native Americans, but Notre Dame is not any differ­ent in that," he said. " T h e y recruit  
sold its land to the government who then sold it to Father Stephen Badin in 1837. According to Schurr, Badin was  University makes a strong effort. My  Greg Dowd associate professor of history  N o t r e D a m e gathers informa­ policy for the Potawatomi -we set forth some  Mark Schurr assistant professor of anthropology  l N a t i v e Americans]because it's the right  
able to arrange to buy the land  sense  is  tion about  expectation," he said.  thing to do. They were badly  
because he was very close to  that there's particular recruiting  the  minority  groups.  Once  At that point, Notre Dame  treated."  
Leopold Pokagon, head of the  from Catholic schools in Indian  juniors take the PSAT, the per­ agreed to meet the entire finan­ But, according to O'Connell,  
Pokagon Band. That closeness  communities."  sonal information on the exam is  cial need of an accepted mem­ the University has an obligation  
has not continued, however.  The admissions office makes  sold to colleges. Notre Dame  ber of the Potawatomi tribe.  to recruit Native Americans  
"As a group, [the Pokagon] do  an effort to visit individually  buys lists of these students  However, this policy has been  because of its Catholic identity.  
not feel highly of Notre Dame," Schurr said. Notre Dame agreed  with Native American applicants in their hometowns.  "either by religion, ethnic group, zip code, etc," Mundy said.  overtaken by the University's commitment to meet the finan­ see HERITAGE/page 2  

page 2 The Observer . IN FOCUS Monday, February 19, 2001 
ONE PERSON'S VIEW 
Reniembering a friend 
My freshman year I made a friend. 
He was a nice kid. a quiet guy who worked hard and lent me his pillow for a while on a long van ride lo Tennessee the day we met on our way to an Appalachia Seminar. 
He had grown up with his mother on a reserva­tion in New Mexico, a long way from snowy South Bend. And New Mexico was where he wanted to return. after he became a doctor. He was going to go back to his reservation and help his people overcome the heart disease that plagues so many Native American communities. 
Sophomore year he was gone. 
The last time I talked to my friend. J ran into him outside Lafortune Student 


Tim Logan 
In Focus 
Editor 
Center. He said he was leaving Notre Dame. He was going back home, not yet a doctor. He said he might join the army, but he was not sure. And he's never been back. 
He tried hard, but my friend could not make the adjustment to Notre Dame. The gap between where he was from and where he was at had been too great. 
And the numbers show he was not alone. 
Native American students leave Notre Dame at a higher percentage than any other group on this campus. There are many causes for this, from cultural and religious differences to academic challenges to financial limitations, but we should do more to prevent it. 
The University has made an admirable 
commitment to provide financial aid to stu­
dents from the Potawatomi Indian tribe, who 
originally lived on the land that we call Notre 
Dame. And the Admissions Office's attempts 
to individually recruit students who live on 
reservations shows an honest desire to pro­
vide Native Americans with access to educa­
tion. Once they get here, the efforts of us all 
need to be just as committed. 
It is difficult for the administration to build 
a community of Native American students 
when there are so few, and their experiences 
are so diffuse. There is little a University can 
do to help students who are suffering from . 
being so far from home, or_ who_a~e p_laced m 
an environment where therr relrgrnn 1s seen 
as foreign. 
But we as a campus can make a difference 
on this. as we can on all the divisions which 
divide our community. We can reach out and 
bridge the gaps between us ~11, and !°aybe in 
so doing. we can help our fnends bndge that 
gap between where they came from and 
where they are. 
I haven't seen my friend in the two-plus 
years since that day when he told me he was 

leaving. I don't know where he is. or if he still 
dreams of being a doctor. 
I could have reached out to him a little 
more when he was here, and struggling. 
Maybe it would have helped; maybe it would 
not have. But, I'll never know. because, 
caught up in the rush of daily life, I didn't. 
Don't make the same mistake. 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
IN FOCUS STAFF Editor: Tzm Logan Assistant Editor: Finn Pressly Photography: Tony Floyd Lab Tech: Lisa Velte. Mary Aimonovich 
Worshiping in their own way 
. Native Americans try to make their beliefs understood on a Catholic campus 
By KIFLIN TURNER 
In Focus Wricer · 
Filbert Begay came to Notre Dame without ever having opened the Bible. 
The sophomore member of the Navajo tribe had been exposed to Christianity, but his little experi­ence with the faith was not enough to prepare him for the devout Catholicism of most Notre Dame students. Begay recalled his theol­ogy class as a particular challenge. It was difficult for him to under­stand Biblical interpretations and figures. 
"I was exposed to Christianity 
back home, but not as much as 
everyone here. and that was a new 
experience," Begay said. "Corning 
from my cultural background, a lot 
of the students here are really 
Christianized." 
Catholicism and Native American 
spiritual beliefs diverge in many 
ways, and students who came to 
Notre Dame from reservation life 
often are forced to wrestle with 
these conflicts. 
"It's a really tough way -a 
meshing of ideas, Catholicism and 
then the traditional views with the 
environment and [the Native 
American} relationship with the 
rest of the world," said freshman 
Joey Shonkwiler, who is both 
Cherokee and Italian. · 

Begay receives mixed reactions when he discusses his spiritual beliefs. His faith is not based on one god, but on many deities found throughout nature. 
"It's not the same as Christianity where there's one god," he said. "We have numerous deities, none of them are higher than the other, nor lower than the other, so there's no hierar­
chical standpoint 
"I tried praying in my but it's more like 
that the deities 
a way of life," was
way. but people look at
have." Begay's response
The deities who me weird." to the priest'sBegay worships 
inquiries about 
are all intercon­his beliefs.
Albert Begay
nected in a uni­Instead of Begay's 
versal circle of sophomore 
answer being met 
interdependence. He equally respects all parts of the natural world -from animals to heavenly objects -and invisible supernat­ural deities. 
"They all play a significant role in the cosmos and life," he said. 
Begay also had to find a way to worship. He recalled feeling self­conscious when he would pray in the Grotto in his own, unique way. 
"I tried praying in my way, but people look at me weird, They were like, 'who the heck are you praying to?'" he said. "I usually pray early in the morning when ~o one is around, so that no one will see me." 
Another incident that made a 
distinct impression on Begay's 
experience with religion at Notre 
Dame was a retreat he attended 
freshman year. As the participants 
began speaking about their respec-
TONY FLOYDfThe Observer 

Sophomore Filbert Begay prays at the Grotto In his own unique way. Many Native American students at Notre Dame face everything from Innocent questions to outright challenges about their spiritual beliefs. 
tive backgrounds, Begay remem­bers the priest in charge of the retreat as not being particularly open to his religion. 
"We don't really 
have a religion, 
with understand­
ing, the priest proceeded to ask his thoughts on God, Heaven and Hell -all things Begay did not know much about. 
Encountering narrow attitudes like these is a frequent and unfor­tunate occurrence, 
according to "We like to pray to 
This overt
Begay. 

everything we have, and denial of Mike's
"The majority of 

beliefs is disap­
the students have not just God. " 
pointing, she
the same respons­

said, but she con­
es as when the 

Laura Mike tinues to use
Father talked to 

junior these opportuni­
me, he said. 

"Some of the stu­dents, they're pretty nice about it. they say, 'oh, that's fascinating,' but the majority of them say, 'uh­
h ... 
0 . 

Discussing religion is a touchy topic for many Native Ameri~an students. But instead of takrng criticism negatively. junior Laura Mike, a Navajo, turns potential conflicts into a learning process. 
"I try to think of that maybe their values aren't as strong or maybe they're not receiving the whole picture or maybe I don't even understand my own faith, and that's why when I explain it, it might not seem clear," she said. "That's when I try to learn more about what my life is about and our religion as a whole." 
Still, the rejection of her beliefs is painful, Mike said, as it is in essence a rejection of her N alive American culture and ancestry. 
"They're very devout to their 
Catholic faith, and I respect that," 
she said. "But I guess it hurts me 
to hear them say that my religion 
is not as good as 
theirs." 

ties to reaffirm 
them. 

"We like to pray to everything that we have, and not just God," she said. "And when I explain this to students here, a lot of them seem to tell me that it's wrong to think that way, or that's not how it should be." 
the European Columbus. 

Schurr wonders why the murals don't depict Native Americans and Europeans more equally. 
Instead of overpowering murals of Columbus. "Why isn't there a mural of Badin and the Pokagon Potawatomi worshiping together?" Schurr asked. 
Heritage 
continued from page 1 
"There's also the Catholic/Christian mission statement -we have more an obligation to help people, the disadvantaged, than let's say the University of Indiana," he 
said. 

Schurr agreed. 
"We do have an obliga• 
tion to the Native Americans because of our distinct history and Catholic background," he said. 
Once here, Native Americans find that it 
might be difficult to adjust to Notre Dame life. 
One of the most divisive parts of the University is the Columbus murals in the Main Building. The murals depict Native Americans in awe of Columbus and seem to depict the Native Americans as lower than 
--7 
=M=o=n=d=ay=,=Fe=b=r=ua=r=y=1=9,=2=0=0=1===========================T,='h=e=O=b=:se=r=ve=r~.=l~N~F~O~C=U~S~=======================================p~a~g;e;3 ) 
Uprooting to Notre Dame 
Distance, both physical and 
cultural, poses challenge for 
Native American students 
Native American students,By KIFLIN TURNER who make up Jess than 1 per­In Focus Writer 
cent of Notre Dame's student 
population, face the challenges 
Imagine walking everyday to not only of finding others on classes through a sea of faces. campus to identify with, but Some of them familiar. some of some also struggle to build a them not, but none like your support group. own. The search to find someone Filbert Begay, a sophomore that not only understands, but from the Navajo tribe, said also has a deep connection to the finding others to identify with is ancestry of a culture describes a particularly daunting task. the plight of Rochelle Lacapa and Relating to other Native many other Native American stu­American students was difficult dents at Notre Dame. for him because he encoun­
Many of these students face tered many students who challenges in uprooting them­claimed to be Native American selves from a culture centered on but were not really in touch extensive family ties and the with their heritage. Begay said land. growing up on a reservation 
Lacapa, a junior affiliated with gives people a strong connec­the White Mountain Apache. tion to the culture. Hopi and Tewa tribes, noticed "When I first came on to cam­that the Native American com­pus, Native American to me munity at Notre Dame was large­was a person who came from a ly defunct where she arrived on · reservation, when I met Native campus. Lacapa noticed that Americans here on campus at other minority groups had built Notre Dame, I'm sorry to say fairly strong networks of friends this, but I was a kind of disap­and support. pointed that I didn't meet any 
Besides feel-other people 
ing disappoint­who were like
"It's small and it's spread 

ed at the lack me," Begay 
of a out so it's tough to haue a said.
Native "The American really cohesive only ones who community on I identify with
organization."

campus, are some of Lacapa also t h e noted other Joey Shonkwiler Hispanics." minority He attrib­
freshman 

groups, while uted this to 
relatively similar, and 
small in size in comparison with extensive, family structures 
the majority white student body, among reservation dwellers 
had a built a fairly strong net­and Hispanics. 
work of friends and support. Laurence Santiago, a fresh­
"When I came here it was man Native American said his 
ignorant about an issue,"

frustrating because it was hard experience at Notre Dame thus who I am," said Begay. ing was.vastly different from 
Lacapa said. "A lot of people

to find a place to fit in," Lacapa far has been especially reward­her own. Complaints over said. "The black kids have their ing. He felt openly sharing his things like shower facilities, here have never had contact 
A difficult .;1djustment 
with Native Americans who arefriends, the Hispanic kids kind culture with receptive students dorm rooms, dining hall food

For Santiago, the transition 
of hung together and I kind of made the adjustments easier. and the shortcomings of South very involved with their cul­
was smooth and provided an 
had to weasel my way into a But Laurence was not raised on Bend life sometimes served to ture. And so it's more like fasci­
opportunity to meet people with 
group." a reservation, and his sur­alienate her from her peers.. nation, but kind of in a stand­
equally diverse and rich back­
Lacapa's first days on campus roundings at home were more "It was really hard my first offish way." 
grounds, but others with closer 
were difficult as she searched similar to those of his Notre year, because my values differ The geographical location of 
ties to reservation life may have 
a lot from most of the students Notre Dame and the lack of ato find others who could share Dame classmates. 
experienced a more difficult time 
"It wasn't that much of a cul­here on campus," said Mike. "I visible Native American com­
her heritage. But living as a 
coping with the lack of a support­
minority is nothing new to ture shock to me, you just have like to live life as it is whereas a munity on campus and in the ive community. surrounding South Bend area
many Native American students to be open to everything, to try lot of my peers would make a
Univernity could also partly explain the
considering the forced resettle­to find similarities and to big deal about 
statistics show everything, unfamiliarity of many Notre

ment of their lands throughout embrace new experiences," 
that in one "It was really hard my and they Dame students with the Native
the 19th century, according to said Santiago. 'Tm not going to given year up
Joey Shonkwiler, a freshman be a hermit and not tell any­first year, because my wouldn't American culture. 
to 40 percent appreciate "It's not something that they
with both Cherokee and Italian body about my culture, I'm values differ a lot from of the Native everything necessarily understand, there's roots.. going to share it-be proud." 
American stu­most ofthe students here that they have a Jot of misconceptions about it"I think that a lot of Native While Begay holds a deep dent popula­on campus." for them." more so than a lot of other cul­American kids are used to that respect for his ancestry and his tion leaves the Many Native tures just because you don't see 
-that it's just a small group culture, he does not believe 
University In American stu­a lot of Native American fami­overall, because of the way labeling himself first and fore­Laura Mfkeanother given dents may lies out and about," Shonkwiler things have happened," he said. most as Native American is 
year only 20 junior said.
experience
"It's small and it's spread out paramount to establishing his percent of culture shock, Other Native American stu­so it's tough to have a really own true sense of self. 
Native according to dents believe Notre Dame stu­"I want people to judge me for
cohesive organization." American students successfully dents are receptive to opening
Huie. People feel compelled to
graduated. In the 1998/1999 aca­
conform, to blend in the hopes the lines of dialogue in dis•
A step behind demic year, three Native of being accepted. cussing the qualities of Native 
American students received "They feel the need to con­American culture. Taking the 
bachelor degrees Such low 
form," Huie said. "It's very dif­time to initiate contact and
For a multitude of reasons, Native American students have been 
retention and graduation rates, 
ficult because a lot of the times open the doors of communica­
graduacing at a lower rate than the overall student body. to some, signify that Native tion is imperative to reaching a
they don't feel like they have a
American students may have 
level of openness and under•
voice."

trouble adjusting. And sometimes, people feel standing according to Santiago. 
General student bod~
CJ.m...Qf Nativll Am~ri;ani "[Notre Dame] may not have like they are forced to be a "I think Notre Dame is very
been anything like where 
1996 67% 93 o/o voice for their people. It is not accepting of my culture," he 
they've come from, especially if surprising for some Native said. "It just depends on what it's students coming from reser­your character is and that pret­
American students to meet
vations," !.aid Kevin Huie, advi­
1997 80% 94% classmates who will shy away ty much navigates how you're 
sor for the Native American 
from asking questions in order going to accept things." 
Student Association. 
not to come off as prejudiced.

Junior Laura Mike recalled
1998 83% 93% "I think a lot of people are 
Family Ties 

the pains of adjusting to Notre 
afraid of asking questions just 
Coming from a culture that

Dame. She explained that the 
because they don't want to 
SO% 94% system of values and rationaliz­
1999 sound stereotypical or sound see CULTURE/page 4 

-,--------------------­page 4 The Obrerver . IN FOCUS Monday, February 19, 2001 
Culture 
continued from page 3 
prizes the family as a central driving force in the community, it is often difficult for some Native Americans to adjust to being away from home for an extended period of time. 
''Native Americans are very family-based in the fact that older generations stay in the home and it's more a network or families -not individual. nuclear fam­i I i e s , " 

Lacapa said. "A university like this is obligation to family and
" T h e very intimidating for a 

younger gen­pursuing
lot ofNative Americans.,,, 

eration usu­education." ally stays Staying around to Bob Mundy near home take care of to keep
Admissions Office
the older generation and then when they are ready to have a family, they have their family and the cycle con­tinues." 
Despite the renowned "Notre Dame Family," some Native American student.<; feel that the campus community falls short as a place to build deep, personal connections with others. 
"The biggest thing is their families are not around," Huie said. "As much as Notre Dame can be considered a family place, for them, it's all of their blood relatives ­extended family that is so important to them and not having them here, makes a big difference for their com­fort level." 
Often traditional Native American homes are wary 

about family members going to college far away. Instead of moving long distances away from the family, many Native American students opt to attend universities near their homes to sustain close ties. 
"It's kind of a double-edged sword -more and more [par­ents) are starting to encour­age higher education, but at the same time they're saying. 'but don't go too far.'" Lacapa said. "In that respect, the younger generation of Native Americans is trying to strug­g Ie with having an 
family ties 
strong plays a strong role in helping Native American students decide where to go to college. Mike recalled that a majority of Native American students she went to school'with decid­ed to attend nearby state uni­versities. 
"A university like this is very intimidating for a lot of Native Americans because a lot of them have been raised on a reservation and it's just culturally not something to you do to leave," said Bob Mundy, director of admis­sions. 
Throw in Notre Dame's deep Catholicism and the gap widens. 
"I think distance is a big issue," Mundy said. "It's a big expanse physically -it's also a big expanse culturally." 

Chief Eli Little Elk (left) of the Chippewa Tribal Nation from Mount Pleasant Mich., confers with Chief William J. Hale (right) of the Shongomissi branch of the Miami tribe at a pow-wow at Notre Dame In 1991. The pow-wows were held each summer at Notre Dame, with proceeds going to advance education for Native American students at the University. 

THE 
BSE 


NEWS EDITOR 
Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VJEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
SCENE EDITOR 
Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Scene Editor man­ages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the con­tent of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accenc department editors in assigning photographs. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gen­erating advertising revenue. 
is nON accepting applications for the 
2001-2002 General Board 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout ofadvertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge ofcomputer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a freshman majoring in accounting or finance at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Spores and Scene to match top-qualiry graphics with the content ofeach day's newspaper. , 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. A three-page statement ofintent and a resume must be submitted by Friday, Feb. 23 to the basement ofSouth Dining Hall. 

Monday, February 19, 2001 page 11 
Shakespeare's 'The Winter's Tale' to warm N<)tre Dame 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Writer 
What do London, England and Notre Dame have in common? Well, they're both cold, both have bland food, and both have some of the most innovative and inspirational theater in the world. 
The Actors From The London Stage arrived on campus Saturday evening. Originally conceived by Homer "Murph" Swander in 1975 as a way to better teach theater and Shakespeare to American drama students through short teaching sessions, the Actors from the London Stage program has grown from impromptu question and answer sessions into a for­midable touring theater program. 
The company consists of about five actors from notable theater companies in London such as The Royal Shakespeare Company and The Royal National Theatre of Great Britain. The actors perform with minimal props and costumes and travel by car to American universities from their base of operations. Notre Dame has recently become the host university of the company. 
However, this is not Notre Dame's first brush with the program. The Actors from the London Stage have visited the University seven times before. During their most recent visit last 
semester, they performed The Winter's Tale 
"As You Like It" for packed audiences. The company doesn't . Who: The Actors From 
just perform Shakespeare, 
they also teach it, as well The London Stage as any other type of the-. Where: Washington Hall 
ater style in which their 
students are interested. . When: Feb. 21, 22, 23 This is because The Actors and 24 at 7:30 p.m. 
From The London Stage . Cost: Tickets are $16, 
tour in residencies, or 
$14 for senior citizens and

one-week performance/teach-in ses­$12 for all students. sions. A usual residency consists of three full-per­formance Shakespeare plays, two "one-handers" (one person shows created by members of the cast) and up to 30 class teach-in sessions. 
The Actors From The London Stage company has come to Notre Dame with the support of the Office of company will be serving up one of Shakespeare's them, the Actors From The London Stage will have romances, "The Winter's Tale." The cast, featuring you in utter awe only with the use of their incredible Doyne Byrd. Mairead Carty, Andrew Readman, acting abilities. Alison Skilbeck (incidentally, Ms. Skilbeck was a Presented by the University of Notre Dame member of the first AFTLS company to visit ND) and Department of Film, Television and Theatre, "The Nicholas Tigg, plays al.I 31 characters in this turbu­Winter's Tale" will be performed Wednesday through lent story that contains everything one could ask for Saturday, Feb. 21, 22, 23 and 24 at 7:30 p.m. at in a show -from romance, to jealous fits of rage, to Washington Hall. Tickets are $16, $14 for senior citi­infidelity and even wildt bears. zens and $12 for all students. Tickets are available 
the Provost, the  
Department of  
Film, Television  
and  Theatre,  
T  h  e  
Department of  
English and the  
College of Arts  
and  Letters'  
Shakespeare  
Initiative. The  
company  has  
been especially  
encouraged by  
the creation of  
the  McMeel  
Chair  in  
Shakespeare  
Studies.  This  
endowed pro­ 
fessorship  at  
Notre  Dame  
will take on the  
additional role  
of director of  
the  Actors  
From  The  
London Stage  
beginning next  
year. However  
busy the transi­ 
tion  may  be,  
the company is  
still  working  
hard to create a monumental season. This time  Photo courtesy of the University of Notre Dame Department of Film, Television and Theatre The Actors From The London Stage will be performing William Shakespeare's "The Winiter's Tale" this weekend at Washington Hall. Pictured from left to right are Mairead Carty, Andrew Readman, Doyne Byrd, Alison Skilbeck, and Nicholas Tigg.  
around,  the  

Don't be fooled by the minimal look of the show. in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Box Even without any special eye candy to ornament Office or by calling (219) 631-8128. 

-"Raging Bull" at Snite Museum, 7 p.m. -Admission FREE! 
.•Fr.·i,o.a;;I•····•·" 

-SUB: "Best In Show''at 8 and 
10:30 p.m. 
-''The Winter's Tale" at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall 
~ Open Skate at 9:00 p.m. to 11 :00 
p.m. Cost: $2.00 with student ID! 
-SUB: "Shall We Dance," 101 DeBartolo at 7:30 p.m. 
-SUB: "Topsy Turvy'' at 7 p.m. 
-''The Winter's Tale" at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall 
-SUB: "Ill" Postino at 7 p.m. 
-"The Winter's Tale" at 7:30 p.rn. in Washington Hall 
-SMC: Open auditions for "Gypsy," O'Laughlin Auditorium 
-Smithsonian Trio performance at Annenberg-"Touch of Evil'' at Snite Museum, 7:30 & Auditorium, 2 p.m. $3 student tickets. 
9:45 p.m. -Admission $2 
-"The Winter's Tale" at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall 
-Fiestang Filipina VII from 7 to 10 p.m. at Stepan Center. Cost: $5. 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 19, 2001 
IRISH INSIGHT 
The terse replies and gloomy 
looks of the Irish players following 
Sunday's loss to Seton Hall didn't 
match the upbeat message com­
ing from their mouths. 
David Graves, Matt Carroll. 
Troy Murphy 
and Ryan 
Humphrey 
talked about 
controlling 
their own fate 
in the race for 
a regular sea­
son Big East 
title. They 
pointed to 
their first­
place stand­
ings in the Big 
East West 
Division. They 
said that losses 
happen. 
Let's hope they were listening to their words, not their body lan­guage. 
Murphy appeared as comfort­able as someone about to undergo a root canal. The nonnally chatty junior was lucky to string together an "I don't know -they had depth" as to what Seton Hall did and "yeah, I did" when asked if he took offense to Darius Lane dunk­ing at game's end with the win already in hand. After the post­game press conference, the All­American slipped out the door faster than an Andre Barrett drive. 
Murphy, who did everything possible to secure the win ­except hit his free throws -with 16 board-crashing rebounds and 24 points, had good reason to be upset by his team's loss. Notre Dame's 32 percent shooting per­centage, including two for 23 from behind the arc, brought the Irish eight-game winning streak to a skidding halt. 
But more important than the game Notre Dame lost Sunday are the eight they won before that. All teams lose. and winning eight out of the last nine is far better than most NCAA Tournament-bound schools can claim to have done. 
As Carroll said, "We've got a game or two lead. It's still our league, and we're going to think ofit that way." 
The Irish are still two games ahead of both Georgetown and Syracuse in the Big East West. The top two teams in each divi­sion earning a first-round bye in the Big East Tourn-ament, and with just four games remaining, it would take a total collapse by Notre Dame to drop beyond the top two. 
So the Irish lost. 


Life will go on 
Big deal. Every team -yes, every team -in the top 25 has lost at least once since Jan. 13, the last time Notre 
Dame lost before Sunday. 15 of those best-in-the­nation schools lost last week, five of them mul­tiple times. 
Sixth-ranked Kansus lost twice, at Baylor and Ohio State. Iowa has dropped four in a 
row since losing star Luke Recker to a broken kneecap. Even No. 
1 North Carolina lost on Sunday, to an 11-14 Clemson squad. 
Suddenly, Notre Dame's loss yes­terday doesn't sound so bad. 
Seton Hall's 13­10 record isn't as sparkling as Notre Dame's 17-6 standings, but the Pirates are much more talented than their loss column shows. It took some time for a team with three freshmen playing 
Troy Murphy watches as Seton Hall's Samuel Dalembert dunks In Sunday's
megaminutes to find its way, but loss to the Pirates. The loss broke Notre Dame's eight-game win streak. 

Eddie Griffin, Andre Barrett and Marcus Toney­El aren't just any newcomers ­they're three ofthe best in the nation. If they stick around the college game for long, which I wouldn't bet a nickel on, the Pirates will find themselves in the Final Four very soon. 
Speaking of the Final Four, Notre Dame's a talented enough squad to get there, ifthe Irish don't let yesterday's loss cloud their confidence. 
Graves, though doubtless disap­pointed with the loss, came off as convinced that the shooting slump was just a fluke. 
"We can't hang our heads with this loss," said the junior guard. "We've got something much big­ger than just losing to Seton Hall. We're still two games ahead in the West. We've still got a lot to accomplish this year." 
Notre Dame should hold its heads high after the way it's been playing since mid-January. The Irish have broken school record upon school record, assuring themselves of a first-ever winning record in the Big East and more than doubling Notre Dame's pre­vious best three consecutive league wins to eight in a row. 
One loss doesn't change what Notre Dame's accomplished, and Irish coach Mike Brey knows it. 
"I'm not looking for any build­ings to jump off of," said Brey. 
The Irish just have to avoid set­tling too long on the loss. Dwelling on a loss is only useful when a team's not trying. The Irish tried, winning the battle of the boards over a taller Pirates team. They just couldn't find the hoop. 
Thinking too much about the disappointment will only perpetu­ate the slump. 
As Brey said, "A lot of how we play Wednesday will be how we handle it this afternoon, this evening. tomorrow. and move on." 
Notre Dame needs to turn for­ward quickly, since Wednesday brings the best team in the East 
Division of the Big East to town ­
Boston College. 

Fitting that the Eagles are up next, because they just accom­plished the trick the Irish are looking to replicate. After reeling off six wins in a row, BC dropped a road game to Connecticut, but bounced back to win Saturday against red-hot Providence. 
The one time Murphy man~ged a smile after Sunday's loss was when Graves said, "It wasn't our day, and it happens. The sun will rise tomorrow." 
A bit corny perhaps, but he's got the right idea. Notre Dame's still one of "the hottest teams in the country," according to Seton Hall coach Tommy Amaker, and last I checked, the sun rose this morning. 
The views-expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Men 
continued from page I 

cut the lead to one, but Troy Murphy's layup rimmed out. 
Both teams exchanged baskets before Seton Hall built its lead back up to 10 on a three pointer by Darius Lane with 14:59 remaining. 
"In the second half we tried to play faster," Brey said. "We tried to beat them down the floor and get an easy basket. " 
However. nothing came easy for the Irish. Notre Dame, which had just 12 assists and 15 turnovers, would never get closer than six points. 
"They are athletic and quick," sophomore guard Matt Carroll said. "We didn't get any open looks and they pres­sur~d the guys inside too. 
Every time the Irish made a run, Griffin either scored, blocked a shot or created a turnover. 
"He was phenome­nal," Amaker said of Griffin. "I thought he played as well as you can have a person play. He got baskets for us, big-time rebounds. He bailed us out with a couple of big-time blocks late." 
Murphy led the way for Notre Dame with 24 points and 16 rebounds. Carroll added 13 points and nine boards. Carroll and David Graves each went just 1-of-7 from behind the arc. Humphrey had 12 points. 
Seton Hall freshman Andre Barrett scored 17 points and dished 
out  seven  assists.  
Darius  Lane  had  15  
points.  

The Pirates' victory snapped Seton Hall's five-game losing streak and Notre Dame's eight-game winning streak. 
Notre Dame returns to the floor Wednesday for a conference show­down with No. 9 Boston College (19-3, 10-2). which stands atop the East division. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid.CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
BLACK FEMALE ROOMATE IN CASTLEPOINT $350 271-7195 
Models Wanted Females Long black or dark brown hair for portrait & glamour photography Call chuck @ 616-687-3800 
Reliable, quality childcare needed in my home for 2-year-old and lnfanr. Part-time hours are 2-3 
hrs/day, 3-4 days/Wk with 1 
Saturday a month. Majoring in early childhood development or child­hood education with own trans­portation a plus but not necessary. References required. Phone 288-6795 Graduate Fellowships in Cell and 

Molecular Physiology 

Full time PhD. student research fel• 
lowships are available in the Cell and Molecular Physiology Graduate 
Program of Loyola University 
Chicago. Reasearch areas include ion channel molecular biology, bio­physics and biochemist,y, cardiac electrophysiology, calcium dynam­
ics and excitationcontraction COU • piing, signal transduction. neura­physiology, and neral and immune components of trauma and injury biology. Applications are sought from individuals motivated lo become biomedical research scien­lists. See our web page at www medd11ao iu!:. ~1.1iiurn11 . t'.Q11c1 Webs/physic or contact Dr Stephen B. Jones, Department of Physiology. Stritch School of Medicine, Loyola University Chicago, 2160 South First Avenue. 
(708) 327-2470, e-mail 
siones@iumc.edu. Loyola 
University is an equal 
opportunity/affirmative action employer. 
LOST AND FOUND 
SIZEABLE REWARD OFFERED: For a lost gold and silver bracelet with alternahng silver and gold blocks, if found please contact Rachel Phillips at 4-1492 or email Pbillip§.Z:i <!I od edu 
FOR SALE 
BRONCO II Sspd $1000 obo 4-3472 $$ Get paid for your opinions!$$ Earn $15-$125 and more per sur­veyl www money4Qpinions com 
PHONE CARDS 
$20: 

2601 MIN WITH 49 CENT SUR· CHARGE or $20 362 MIN WITH NO FEES 
634-1146 CLAUDIA 634-4210 SARA 
NORDIC TRACK FOR SALE. GOOD CONDITION. $250 
0/b/o 
289-2370 

FoR RENT 
3-6 bedroom homes furn. Near 
campus 2001 /02&summer 272­
6306 

3-5 bedroom homes close to campus 
232-2595 

mmmrentals@aol.com 
NICE HOME NORTH OF ND GOOD AREA FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277-3097 
All the good houses are not gonel Available 4 bedroom. Available 2 bedroom. Dave 291 ·2209 m11ci;i:i~1Dii;;tliaoa 1irg 
2-4 person house for rent. Newly renovated three blocks from campus For info: call 219-298-3800 2 Houses. side by side, still avail. For 2001-02. Rent one or both, 4 BR & 6 BR. Furnished. beach V-ball. W/D, prime location. 233-9947 Greg 
CONDOS FOR RENT FOR JPW VISITORS OR OTHER SMC/ND EVENTS: Why not reserve -closest to ND -a fully furnished condo contain• ing kitchen with refrigerator, microwave. disposal, dishware, laundry facility and fireplace on the corner of Ivy Rd. & Edison Rd? 
Available for extended stay or tor weekends. 
Contact Unicorn Management al 219-232-1242 tor assistance or leave message on the reservations line 219-273-IVYND (4896) 

Maywood IL 60153. Telephone 
Monday, February 19, 2001 
The Observe,• . SPORTS page 13 
Women 
continued from page 20 
past Irish center Ruth Riley for the score plus a foul. The foul was Riley's fifth of the game -sending the All­American center to the bench on fouls for the first time this season. 
On the ensuing possession, the Irish struggled bringing the ball up the court, taking nearly 15 seconds. Guard Niele Ivey was able to move past Rutgers' Linda Miles. Irish guard Alicia Ratay then set a screen, allowing Ivey 
to move past "/wouldn't credit that with too T a s h a to their defense, I much down 
Pointer. low.
would just credit that 

However, "I think once Ivey to us missing shots. " that they reached the got a lot of lane, Sutton­breaks,"
Ericka Haney

Brown was Haney said.
Irish forward

there to block the 5-foot-7 Ivey's shot. 
"I knew it was just me and her, one-on-one," Pointer told the Home News Tribune. "At the last second she turned the corner. Thank God my big girl came through and made that block." 
In hindsight, McGraw wishes she had intervened on the play. 
"I should have called time­out," McGraw told the New York Times. "We were very, very tentative." 
Kelley Siemon, who led the Irish with 19 points and 15 rebounds while still playing with a broken hand, agreed. 
"It's a little tough," Siemon told the New York Times. "We only needed two points to win. We assumed Niele could get the ball up the floor and she being triple­teamed. There was confu­sion at the end." 
Pointer led the Scarlet Knights with 12 points and three blocked shots coming off the bench. 
"She's the hero of the game," McGraw told the Associated Press. "She didn't play as well as she did in South Bend, but in the end they wanted to go to her, so they went to her and she 
scored. That was  a  great  
play by her."  
The  game  was  marred  

with questionable calls. Irish forward Ericka Haney, who scored 12 points on four of 14 shooting, felt that Rutgers may have gotten away 
"I think that 
we were on 
the side that didn't get the most calls. I think that had the game been played at Notre Dame, it would have been totally different." 
The Irish shot 40 percent from the field. and only 50 percent from the line. Siemon was the only starter who made more than 50 ·percent of her shots, while the Irish got zero points off the bench. 
"I wouldn't credit that to 
their defense, I would just 
credit that to us missing 
shots," Haney said. "I 
thought that there were a lot 
of fouls under the basket 
that weren't called." 

Riley had her least produc­
tive game of the season for 
the Irish, despite scoring 
eight of her 12 points in the 
final minutes. Riley, who 
leads the Big East in shoot-_ 
. ing percentagt, and ranks near the top ini free-throw shooting, made only six of 14 attempts from the field while missing her only two free throws in the final minutes. 
"I don't think I was in the game at all," Hiley told the New York Times. "I shot the ball poorly." 
The only Irish player who didn't shoot poorly was Siemon, who made six of nine field goal attempts and shot above her season aver­age from the line -connect­ing on seven of 14 free­throw attempts. 
"They couldn't do anything with Kelley," Haney said. "Her taking the ball up to the basket was the one thing they really couldn't stop. I really didn't thi.nk that they had an answer for her." 
The Irish now face ques­tions heading into the post­season. The team still ranks as the No. 1 tea.m in the Big East, as they have defeated Connecticut, the only other team in the conference with one loss in the league. 
However, Notre Dame could fall to No. 2 in the NCAA bracket, as the Tennessee Volunteers also have only one 1.oss -to the No. 3 Huskies. The Irish also now must win the Big East Tournament -· where they could play both Rutgers and Connecticut -to assure a top seed during March Madness. 
Right now, though, the Irish are simply looking to learn from the experience and move on towards Tuesday's home game against Miami. 
"We're taking it more as a learning experience," Haney said. "We would like to see where we're going to be after the loss, but I don't think it's goin:g to affect us that much." 
CHRISTMAS IN 
APRIL APRIL 21, 2001 
Join together with up to seven of your friends to participate in Christmas in April (CIA). 
CIA is a one day working session during which the Soutlh Bend com­munity joins forces with the students, faculty, and staff of Notre . Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross College to renovate and repair the homes of the needy, elderly, and handicapped residents of a South Bend neighborhood. 
I~s_r_G_N_-u_P_s---.1 
Tues -Thursday, February 20-22 11 am-2 pm, 4-8 pm 
In LaFortune & Reckers 

Limited Spots Available 
Questions? Contact Craig Komanecki at Komanecki.1@nd.edu or OR Laura Brennan at bren3534@saintmarys.edu 


www.nd.edu/~stdntaff/christmasapril.html 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Records can't propel Belles to high finish 
By JANEL MILLER 
Sports W ricer 
After strong performances led them to a fifth place position at the MIAA Swimming and Diving Championships, the Belles could only wonder where Friday and Saturday would take them after Thursday night's competition. 
The Belles began their jour­ney with two goals. First: swim to achieve a personal best. Second: beat Alma and Albion. They would soon find they lost sight of the latter, and instead focused on beating themselves. 
The Saint Mary's swimming and diving team end their sea­son with a sixth place at confer­ences behind both Alma and Albion. Personal best times and school records were broken, however. 
"In the beginning our main focus was Alma and Albion but as the meet went on and the records started falling and peo­ple were swimming personal bests we forgot about the other teams and focused on us," said senior co-captain Colleen Sullivan. 
Sullivan could not be any happier with her own perfor­mance at her last collegiate competition. On Saturday she broke the 100-yard freestyle record in prelims and then reset it that evening in finals and a fifth place finish with a time of 55.84 seconds. She was also a member of the 200-yard freestyle relay team that broke the school record and the 400­medley relay team that missed the record by a slim margin on Thursday. 
Sullivan joined by Chloe Lenihan, Lauren Smith, and Megan Ramsey took the 200­medley relay record, a time of 
1:55.90 and a fourth place. Later Ramsey and Sullivan teamed with Elizabeth Doro and Maureen Palchak set the 400 free relay record (3:45.61). 
The same four went on to grasp a third place and two records during the 800 free relay. As the lead off swimmer Ramsey added the 200 freestyle record to her name. The relay team with a time of 8:13.97 also conquered the record books. 
Ramsey went on to break her own records in both the 100 and 200-yard butterfly events. Her third place finish and time of 1:00.87 in the 100 and sec­ond place finish and time of 
2:13.5 in the 200 were not enough to make the NCAA cuts. Although she missed the sought after NCM National qualifying times in both these events, Ramsey is satisfied with setting her own time standards this year. 
"There is no way I can be upset," said Ramsey. "I still had great swims even though I didn't qualify, I dropped a huge amount of time in both races, just not enough." 
Both Lauren Smith and Maureen Palchak also con­tributed top six finishes to the Belles. Smith taking sixth in both 100 and 200-yard breast­stroke events. Palchak compli­mented Sullivan's fifth place performance in the 50-yard freestyle with the sixth. 
Paragon Services is seeking full & part-time merchandisers for the South Bend area. Flexible scheduling. Must be willing to travel to South Bend area grocery stores. 1QOO/hr to start. Paid drive time and mileage. No experience necessary. Will train. Work Sunday thru Thursday 8pm-4am. W<?rk 4 hrs or 8 hrs, 1 day or all 5 days. We can schedule around your school schedule. 
1-800-968-7685 ext.BOO 

The American Cancer Society 
presents our Annual 
Daffodil Days 
For onlV six doUars. vou can purchase one bunch often daffodils, and for iust four dollars more, vou can purchase aslender glass vase lhatiS lustpelfecttorvour bOuqueu 
The Dowen; WIii be deliveredto the donns on lhursdaV, March 22"". 
111 proceeds trom our Daffodil Davs uoes to the American cancer Sociotv for use In cancer research, education, programs. and patient services here rn StJoseph coumv; 
NDstud8nts: BJtnudiesignof SpringandIllenewerof hopetovour 
donn room. Youcanusedieonlerronnbelowto placeanonlerwtth 
Jessica BrookshireIn204Rons Sp0ns Cooter or can 1-5829tor more 
lllfDnnadOIL 

StMarv's Contact: Admissions Office122 l8MansHall 284-4587 
r-----------------------,
1 I wanttoorder_bunchesofDaffodilswllh _  vases.  ··; I  
II Name:____  ::  i I; I  
1Address:  HalLNotreDame.lN.46556  l)AfFODn'. 1  

I Mv colllrlbutionol$_tonuhtcanceris enclosed. D -A · Y s I 
L-----------------------J 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 19, 200I 
BASEBALL 

Irish top Bulldogs in close game 
Special to the Observer 
STARKVILLE. Miss. 
Sophomore righthander Matt Laird served up a clutch double­play ball in the bottom of the 10th and freshman first baseman Joe Thaman delivered the go-ahead double in the 11th, as the 12th­ranked Notre Dame baseball team won another close game from No. 16 Mississippi State, 4-2, in final­round action Sunday at the National Bank of Commerce Classic. 
Notre Dame (2-1) claimed a 2-0 lead in the sixth inning, highlighted by an RBI triple from sophomore rightfielder Brian Stavisky-whose four-hit day completed his 9-for-13 weekend. Mississippi State (0-2) then plated single runs in the sixth a.id eighth innings. ultimately sending the game into extra innings. 
Both teams stranded 12 baserunners, with the Irish holding a 15-10 edge in hits while playing error-free in the field. 

MSU--off to its first 0-2 start since 1996--dropped consecutive home games for the first time since midway through the 1998 season, when Kentucky posted 3-2 and 12­9 wins over the Bulldogs. 
The first of two Bulldogs errors in the final inning put the winning run on base for the Irish in the 11th (which was predetermined to be the final inning of the game. due to Notre Dames flight schedule). 
Sophomore leftfielder Kris Billmaier reached to open the 11th, after lifting a short popup down the rightfield line. Three MSU players converged on the play, with the ball kicking off the glove of senior first baseman Jon Knott-just inside the foulline-for a two-base error. 
Junior third baseman Andrew Bushey then took an 0-1 offering from junior righthander Adam Larson and drove the ball up the middle, moving Billmaier to third, before Thaman stroked his second double of the game-sending a 2-2 pitch down the leftfield line for the 3-2 lead. The Irish then padded their lead after an intentional walk to freshman second baseman Steve Sollrnann and junior centerfielder Steve Stanleys RBI grounder to the right side. 
Laird -who saved Saturdays 7 ­5 win over MSU when his lone pitch produced a double-play line­out to Sollmann-delivered a similar clutch pitch on Sunday, after relieving junior Drew Duff with runners on first and second. Laird fell behind pinchhitter Brad Rutto (2-0) before firing a pitch that Rutto hit straight to the second baseman Sollmann, who relayed the ball to senior shortstop Alec Porzel for the 6-4-3 double play. 
Porzel scored the games first run in the sixth, shaking off his 1-for­11 start with a leadoff double to right field. MSU then made a change on the mound, removing senior righthander Jeff Hunter in favor of freshman lefty Paul Maholm, but the lefthanded-hitting Stavisky continued his torrid start by tripling to the gap in right-cen­ter (his fourth extra-base hit and second triple of the season). 
Two batters later, Billmaier sin­gled to right field for a 2-0 Irish lead. 
MSU pushed across a run moments later, after Jason Burkleys leadoff double, a swing­ing bunt to the left side that eluded sliding sophomore righthander J.P. Gagne and Michael Browns run­scoring double-play ball. 
The Bulldogs tied the game in the eighth, after one-out singles by Burkley and Lewis and Steve Gendrons two-out single to left. 
Irish junior righthander Matt Buchmeier tossed four shutout innings in his fourth career start, allowing just four hits and one walk while striking out one MSU batter. 
Laird opened the bottom of the 11th by striking out Gendron before hustling to cover tirst base on Chad Henrys tricky groundball. The next pitch got away from Laird and hit Matthew Maniscalco but Laird ended the game with another tough fielding play, pouncing on a swinging bunt to the left side and throwing out Phillip Willingham for the final out. 
Notre Dame has won its last six extra-inning games, since losing a 10-7 game to Boston College on April 17, 1999 (in a seven-inning game that ended in the eighth). 
SOFTBALL 

Irish win for best 
start in history 
Special to the Obscrvc,r 
The 19th-ranked University of Notre Dame softball team set the mark for the best start in school history, complet­ing an undefeated week­end at the Holiday Inn Invitational in Tampa, Fla., today. The Irish knocked off No. 18 South Carolina 1-0 on Sunday. giving them a 5-0 record and the Invitational tour­namen t title. Senior Lizzy Lemire (Irvine, Calif.) and Jenny Kreich (Indianapolis, Ind.) split tournament MVP honors. 
Lemire collected six hits, including a double and a triple over the weekend while Kriech had eight hits with four RBI. 
Against South Carolina, the Irish rode the arm of their pitching ace, Jen Sharron (Agoura Hills, Calif.). Sharron won her third game of the tournament and tossed her second consecutive complete game of the weekend against the Gamecocks, 
giving up just three hits and striking out nine. She is now 3-0 on the season with a 0.35 ERA and 26 strikeouts in three starts. 
Both teams were scoreless until the top of the seventh, when Notre Dame's Andrea Loman (Riverside, Calif.) blasted a double off the wall in left centerfield to lead off the inning. Danielle Klayman (San Diego, Calif.} followed with a bunt single, moving Loman to third base. 
South Carolina's Megan Matthews, who would also throw a com­plete game with eight strikeouts, struck out Andria Bledsoe (Higley. Ariz.) next. leaving run­ners on the corners with one out. 
Sophomore Alexis Madrid (Temecula, Calif.J then slapped a single past third base to drive in Loman for the winning run. 
Notre Dame will return to action Friday, Feb. 23, in the Lady Razorback Invitational in Fayetteville, Ark. 


Monday, February 19, 2001 
The Observe;, . SPORTS page 15 
HOCKEY 
leers rally to tie WolveJrines on road 
By MATT ORENCHUK Sports Writer 
Yost Ice Arena on the cam­pus of the University of Michigan is not the easiest place to play a hockey game. Not only are the Wolverines are one of the top hockey pro­grams in the country. but their fans are notorious for being rowdy during games. It would be nearly impossible for a tearo down 3-1 to fight back in an environment like that. 
But that is exactly what the Notre Dame hockey team did on Friday night. Down by two goals midway through the sec­ond period, the Irish battled back to tie the Wolverines 4-4 on their home ice. 
It was the first regular sea­son point earned by Notre Dame at Michigan since 1982. 
The game started off well for the Irish. Rob Globke scored on the power play seven minutes into the opening period to give Notre Dame a 1-0 lead. The defense played well early for Notre Dame, and the Irish went into the intermission with their one goal lead intact. 
The second period was an entirely different story. Michigan came out firing. A series of penalties gave the Wolverines a four on three advantage. Jeff Jillson was able to capitalize for Michigan and he tied the game at one with his goal 2:49 into the period. The Wolverines put two more goals on the board. first by Josh Langfeld and then anoth­er by Jillson to take a 3-1 lead at the 13:24 mark of the sec­ond period. 
Then Notre Dame got a break. Even Nielsen skated out of the penalty box and received a perfect pass from teammate Ryan Dolder. Nielsen raced up the ice and put the puck past Wolverine goalie Josh Blackburn to cut the Michigan lead to 3-2. 

"Nielsen's breakaway goal was the spark we needed," junior center David Inman said. "The team was able to feed off of that for us to comeback." 
Michigan wasn't done yet. They added another power play goal by Langfeld to restore their two-goal lead going into the second intermission. 
The third period belonged to the Irish. On the power play, Inman got a nice rebound and flipped the puck past Blackburn to make the score 4­3. 

"Dan Carlson made a perfect pass," Inman said. "I was just at the right place at the right time, and I was able to find an open net and put it away." 
Brett Lebda finished off the scoring when he scored short­handed with 10 minutes left in the game. That tied the game 4-4. 
The game was then a dual of the goaltenders. Tony Zasowski 
~· 
0 
• ~ 
tJ1e 


was excellent in the third peri­od and overtime while preserv­ing the tie for the Irish. He stopped 40 shots setting a per­sonal record. 
Most importantly, the tie keeps the Irish tied for the last CCHA playoff spot. Notre Dame and Bowling Green each have 15 points and are tied for 10th in the league. The Irish. howev­er, hold the tiebreaker over the Falcons. and if the season ended today. Notre Dame would have the last playoff spot. 
Although they sit in the last playoff spot, the Notre Dame players know they can't be complacent. 
Next up for the Irish is a two game series at Alaska Fairbanks this weekend. 
"These arc desperate times," said Inman. "[Alaska Fairbanks) is one of the teams we are fighting with for the last playoff spot. So we need to come out of next weekend with some points." 
Tennis 
continued from page n20 
win at the Indoors got off to a diflicult start by losing the No. 1 and No.3 doubles giving up the doubles point to the Bulldogs. Things didn't get much better for the Irish as they lost all but one of the singles matches to go down the defending national champions 5-1. 
"We lost 5-1 but it was a Jot closer than that," said Louderback. "If we had won the doubles point it would have made a big difference." 
Lindsay Green was the only singles player to win for the Irish as Michelle Dasso' s match was abandoned after Georgia clinched the victory by defeating Becky Varnum, Nina Vaughan, Caylan Leslie, and Kimberly Guy. 
"They've got a lot back from last year when they won the NCAA' s and they have been in pressure situations more than we have," Louderback said. "They have a lot more experi­ence and they played better at the end of the matches than we did, but this match will help us in the future." 
After struggling against a Georgia team that features four players in the top 100 in the country Notre Dame was pitted up against No. 7 Pepperdine in a consolation match. Despite the loss in the quarterfinals the Irish came out tough against Pepperdine immediately sending a message as Dasso and Varnum defeated the first-ranked dou­bles team of Senoglu and Pao.la Palencia 8-5. The win was fol­lowed by victories at Nos. 2 and 3 doubles by Cunha/Guy and Green/Vaughan that clinched the doubles point for the Irish. Establishing a 1-0 lead. 
"That was a big doubles win. Michelle and Becky had faced them three times before and had never beaten them," said Louderback "She [Dasso] was sick all weekend and stilled played well." 
After upsetting the nation' s top ranked doubles team Dasso beat 14th-ranked Ipek Senoglu 3-6, 6-4, 6-3 at No. 1 singles breaking the Notre Dame record for most singles victories set last year by Kelly Zalinsky. Following Michelle' s lead the rest of the Irish won four of the next five singles matches, giving them the 6-1 upset and improving their record to 7-2 . 
Notre Dame Film. Television. and Theatre presents 

Wednesday, February 21 .. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 22 ... 7:30 p.m. Friday, February 23 ............. 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 24 ... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-81 28. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 19, 2001 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Hecking breaks barrier as team wins fifth straight title 
yard backstroke -an event she "This is awful
By ANDREW SOUKUP 

has won all three years -and nice for Allison,"
Sports Writer 

took first in the 200-yard back­Weathers said. 
stroke as well. Hecking also "She's a great
UNIONDALE, N.Y. swam on two winning Notre breaststroker and 
They wore bright blue shirts Dame relays and swam a person­deserves to win." 

with the words "Bring it" written al -best time in the 200-yard While Heckingin giant yellow letters on the freestyle. and Lloyd shined back, daring any" Big East team Hecking began her spectacular individually, it was 
to try to beat them. weekend by splitting a 55.16 in clear that Weathers 
And when nobody stepped for­

the 400-yard medley relay found a top-notchward to challenge them, the Thursday night. The next night, group of swimmers Notre Dame women's swimming 
she swam a blistering 54.98 in with his 2004 team earned the right to jump the 100-yard backstroke, setting recruiting class. 
into the pool once again as they a new conference record and While the freshmen captured their fifth consecutive becoming the first backstroker in didn't turn in many
Big East Championship. 

Notre Dame history to break the individual titles,
The Irish captured first place magical 55-second barrier. they scored valu­with 672.5 points. Virginia Tech "She was pretty excited about able places in took second with 482 points, and that -that's been a goal for her events to help push 
Rutgers was third with 450.5 for a long time," Weathers said. the Irish away from points. Miami, which was in sec­"It's a big barrier for backstro­any other competi­
ond place after the first day of kers." 

tion. 
competition, slipped all the way Saturday night, Hecking con­"They're justto fifth place. tinued her dominance in the amazing," Hecking
"Where do you begin," said backstroke events by taking first said. "They're all so Irish coach Bailey Weathers, who place in the 200-yard backstroke talented, and it's was named the 2001 Big East by more than a second and a been so much fun 

Coach of the Year. "It's a new half, swimming a personal-best to work with them generation of kids. To be able to 
1:58.7. and to train with 
win again is really important, "I thought I went two minutes, them." and to make that transition is 
I touched the wall and I thought, "Each one of pretty incredible for us." 
'Oh, I'll be happy with a 59'," she them has con­Last season, Notre Dame won said. "Then I realized I just went tributed so much 
the championship with a very tal­58. It was amazing." this year," added ented group of seniors. When the Just one event later, Hecking captain Kristen Van season started, Weathers swam a 51.49 in the 100-yard Saun. individual medley on Thursday, porters in the stands on their feet 
expressed concern that he might freestyle, good enough for ninth Lisa D'Olier was one of many she took second in both the 400-screaming for a first throughnot be able to till the gap. As it place. freshmen to shine during the yard individual medley and the third sweep. When the three would turn out, he had no reason "Two lifetime bests in 10 min­weekend. She won both the 100-1,650-yard freestyle. swimmers touched the wall one to worry. 

utes -I couldn't believe it," she yard and 200-yard butterfly "Whatever you tell her to swim. after another, the Irish broke into Weathers brought in arguably laughed. Hecking also swam a events, and swam the butterfly she says, 'Okay, I'll do it', and a frenzy. 
one of his best recruiting classes leg on four relays. In all, the leg on both medley relays. does it really well," said Van "I think [the freshmen] are since he came to Notre Dame, junior contributed 70.5 points for D'Olier's victories are remark­Saun. going to do a lot for our pro­and it was those freshmen who the Irish. able considering the freshman D'Olier and Labosky were only gram," said Weathers. "They'vestepped up to lead the Irish to 

"It hasn't sunk in yet," she said. broke her wrist earlier in the two of the freshman to score for done a lot here this weekend,victory. "It feels good to have the hard season and wasn't even sure how the Irish. In all, of the 15 swim­they're both young in the sports, But while the Irish relied on work pay off." she'd perform. mers who placed in the top eight and it's going to be exciting to see 
their young talent to pick up cru­Allison Lloyd was the other "I broke my wrist earlier in the for Notre Dame, six were fresh­them swim the next three years." 

cial points, the performances of a 

junior to win an individual title. year, and I doubted I'd be where men. Weathers' excitement is pair of juniors sparked the Following her contribution to the I am right now," she said. "This The dominance of the fresh­reflected throughout the rest of enthusiasm among the dozens of winning 400-yard medley relay is my first year training fly, so I men was perfectly symbolized in the team. Each· swimmer speaksIrish supporters who turned up Thursday night, Lloyd swam wasn't expecting too much. I was the 200-yard butterfly. Halfway with confidence and enthusiasm. in Long Island to watch the 1:02.85 in the 100-yard breas­just really excited to win." through the race, D'Olier. Lisa Everyone, from the freshmen to 
championship meet. 

troke and a time fast enough to As she has all season, Marie Garcia, and Sarah Bowman were the captains, knows that this 
Junior Kelly Hecking had one earn NCAA finals consideration. Labosky turned out solid perfor­fourth, fifth, and sixth. But the weekend's championship was of the best meets of her life. She A night later, she took fourth in mances across the board. In trio moved their way up through • just the first step on their road to set a school record in the 100-the 200-yard breastroke. addition to winning the 200-yard the field, and had the Irish sup-national prominence. 

Swi011Ders see Weathers as not just coach, but second dad 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 
At first glance, Bailey Weathers doesn't exactly strike you as the type of man who would lead the women's swim team to five straight Big East championships. 
He's quiet, mild-mannered, and doesn't exactly say a whole 
lot. In fact, it's hard to believe that this soft-spoken man is the primary reason behind Notre Dame's success. 
But as the swim­mers will readily tell you, there is more to 

Weathers than you can tell when you Andrew Soukup first meet him. 

"He gets really quiet sometimes, but Irish Insight you just have to get to know him," said Lisa D'Olier. "He'll run around, tap your shoulder, and run away, and play little jokes on you. He has this whole other side to him." 
Weathers embodies the model of an ideal swim coach. He is a master recruiter -shown by the talent he con­sistently brings in -and an expert at training methods. During his six-year tenure as Notre Dame's swim coach, he has produced 10 All-Americans, but he's probably more proud of his 15 Academic All-Americans. He's been named Coach of the Year almost as many times as Notre Dame has won the Big East title. 

But there is a much deeper side to Weathers that only a few people ever see. 
"He gets in goofy moods," said senior Carrie Nixon. "He get things up, the spir­its up on deck. Even during practice all year, he's dancing around." 
"Sometimes, we wonder just how old he really is," laughed freshman Lisa Garcia. 
Weathers has been known to pull some crazy stunts. Just ask his swimmers. 
"Probably the funniest thing I've ever seen is when we were out to dinner one night, and we got him to get up and dance on the dance floor." said senior Kristen Van Saun. "I've never seen him dance before." 
Or there was the time that Weathers jumped off the diving board with his clothes on. 
"Marie was swimming fast and he said, 'If you go 2:07, I'll jump off the diving board with my clothes on·." said Kelly Hecking. "She goes, 'Really?' and the next lap she went 2:07. And at the end of practice, he did it with his wind pants on. He went home with one of the assistant coach's tight little pants on. It was hilari­ous." 
"He just jumped up and down on the board and then jumped in. and he's in a little ball and his hair is all flopping, and it was just the funnicsl thing," said fresh­man Danielle Hulick. 
And the one time that Weathers got mad, his swimmers had a hard time tak­ing him seriously. 
"One day he just yelled at us and made us do wall sits for 30 minutes," Hulick said. "It was the funniest thing. He was like a drill sergeant and you never see Bailey get mad." 
But the reason why Weathers is so loved by his swimmers can be seen in how he transcends the traditional dis­tance between coaches and athletes that characterizes college sports. Weathers is more than just a coach to his swimmers, he's a father. 
"I think that for a lot of us he's a dad away from home," said Van Saun. "I don't know a lot of college coaches that care so much about their swimmers out of the pool. I guess it's that it because he cares about me so much as a person and not just what I'm doing for him in the pool." 
"I think a lot of coaches just care about the sport aspect of your life," said Carrie Nixon. "He cares about everything else, too." 
Weathers is always interested in the social life of his swimmers, going so far as wanting to meet Lheir boyfriends. But he's always available at any time. Weathers' greatest strength is his ability to listen. He has his team over to his house frequently for dinner, and he actu­ally shows genuine interest in his swim­mer's lives. He stresses academics and social life just as much as he wants them to swim. In short, he treats his swimmers not just as athletes, but as people 
And for that, he earns a ton of respect. "I respect him as a person, not just as a coach," said Garcia. 
Weathers says that attending Notre Dame means more than being just a stu­dent or an athlete. It involves living a quality life. He always talks about how the sprit of Notre Dame and how it attracts quality people. Especially to his team, Weathers is one of those quality people. 
When it was announced that Weathers was named Big East Coach of the Year for the fourth time in his career, the women's swim team erupted into cheers. They chanted "B-Dub!" and yelled "We Jove you Bailey" as Weathers walked to the podium to receive his award. 
After, when the women's team was receiving the championship trophy, when asked 
if he was looking forward to getting thrown in the water as he has every year since Notre Dame started their streak of Big East title, Weathers casually replied, "Not really." 
The broad grin on his face said other­wise. 
In fact, Weathers must have been so eager to get in the water that he jumped in himself instead of waiting for his swim­mers to through him in. 
Weathers downplays his success as a coach and gives all the credit to his swim­mers. 
"It feels good, but I think a lot of that goes to the kids," he said. "It really comes down to how hard they work and their improvement." 
But it's a lot easier to work hard when you've got a coach as good as Bailey. 
Monday, February 19, 2001 The Oburver . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Notre Dame swimmers takt~ fourth at Big East Champs 
of doing." Welsh said. "Do we claim this weekend as Notre consider it my third-best event. camp as a junior in high school 
By TIM CASEY 
wish we were capable of doing Dame's most accomplished male "This is definitely the culmina­and fell in love with the school.
Assistant Sports Editor 
more? Sure we do. But when we swimmer. Af1;er recording a tion of the season for us. Of He made an impact last year and do the best job we can do, the third-place finish in the 500-yard course we're working towards placed seventh in the 100-yard
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 

scoreboard will take care of freestyle on Thursday, Pierce the national championships but breastroke at the Big East 
Five minutes after Saturday 
itself," placed fourth in Friday's 400-this is a meet we can all share. Championships. This weekend,night's final event, the 400-yard The 2001 conference meet for yard individual medley and third And I think the team performed Fitzpatrick showed improvement
freestyle relay, Notre Dame 
the Irish was highlighted by a in the 1,650-)ard freestyle on very well." and finished sixth in the 100coach Tim Welsh grinned and few solid individual Saturday. As was the case on Thursday, breastroke and third in the 200­held up the four fingers on his performances but P i e r c e the divers once again provided yard breastroke. His time in the
right hand. "We did what we were
their lack of depth became the the Irish with some crucial 200 {2:02.54) was nearly three 
It was not an unusual scene, capable ofdoing. Do we
was also evident. second points. Sophomore Andy Maggio seconds faster than last year's
for Welsh always exudes an 
Four swimmers wish we were capable of N o t r e placed second in the three-meter best clocking. 
externally optimistic view of his (senior Ryan Verlin, D a m e final on Friday night, while 'Tm real happy with my per­
team's performance. But the ges­more? Sure we do. But
junior Jonathan swimmer to senior Herb Huesman finished formance," Fitzpatrick said. 
ture symbolized the Irish's 
Pierce, sophomore when we do the best job go under fifth. Maggio missed out on sec­"Hopefully I can continue to fourth-place finish, a standing Jason Fitzpatrick we can do, the score­four min­ond by just 0.8 points. improve."
that excited Welsh because just and freshman Matt utes in the One night earlier, Maggio was The Irish will lose nine seniors 
moments before, the final verdict board will take ofitself"
Obringer) posted at 400 individ­second and Huesman was fourth to graduation in May, including was still unsettled. When the offi­least two individual ual medley. in the one-meter competition. Verlin (who placed sixth in both cial results were tallied, they top-eight finishes. Tim Welsh Pierce did "My overall consistency has the 200-yard butterfly and 400· showed Notre Dame with 385.50 
Yet only one other not meet improved from last year," Maggio yard individual medley) and
head coach
points and Rutgers with 385 
swimmer. senior his pre-said. "The goal is to be able to be Szilier. But a talented group of points. 
Dan Szilier, could meet goal certain you're going to hit your younger swimmers, particularly
For the fifth straight year, 
manage to rank among the top of swimming under 15:30 in the dives. I didn't really do anything Obringer, the eight-place finisher Pittsburgh dominated the Big eight in an individual event. 1,650 freestyle, an event that spectacular (on Saturday) but I in the 200 and 500-yard
East Championships. The 
Szilier, the runner-up in last sea­Pierce won the last two years, didn't miss anything either." freestyle, cause Welsh to once 
Panthers scored 647 points, a 
son's 200-yard breastroke, fin­but his time of 15:43.73 for the Said Welsh: "I've been here for again flash his trademark smile. 
total that put them comfortably ished fifth in that same event this 66 laps did not cause much con­16 years and there's probably "If you asked me last week ahead of St. John's (428 points} year. cern on Saturday. one other diver, who has dove for what we're capable of doing, this and Virginia Tcch's 417 point.5. 
"The guys who led us all sea­"Overall, it was a good week­4 years, who would compare is what we were capable of And the Irish, who were second son long led us here as well," end," Pierce said. "Sure, it's kind with Herbie and Andy." doing," Welsh said. "Did we ever the previous two years, matched Welsh said. of a disappointment that I didn't Welsh believes he has another in the entire season hope for their placement at the 1998 con­At a school where each student place as high as I wanted to (in rising star in Fitzpatrick. The more? Of course we did. We'll ference championships. 
must pass a mandatory swim test the 1,650). But I was real happy Arizona native attended the just want to do more the next "We did what we were capable 
as a freshman, Pierce staked the with my time in the 400 IM. I Notre Dame summer swimming time." 
Huesman bounces back from illness into Big East 
On page nine of the men's in the one-meter swimming and diving media and fifth in the guide, directly below a photo­three-meter diving graph of diver Herb Huesman, finals. Again, the there is Huesman's short biog­previous sentence raphy. presents merely the 
It reads: Returns for a fifth­facts. year of eligibility after missing Before Thursday's the 1998-99 one-meter event, season Huesman had only recovering 
dove for three from an weeks. He hurt his injury. shoulder during the 
Referring Indiana Invitational t 0 in November and Huesman's was sidelined until condition as last month. Even in an "injury" the past few weeks, is like call-Huesman had only ing Monica Tim Casey attempted 15 dives Lewinksy a per day (as com­former pared to the normal Washington Assistant load of 60-90) and 
intern. the pain in his 
They're both Sports Editor shoulder remained. true state-But Huesman ments but they reveal only a refused to miss the small fraction of the story. final conference The real reason Huesman did championships of 
career one way, this wouldn't be After a few years of having his Since then, the tumor has not not dive during his junior season his career. 
it," Huesman said. "But I've body hit the water at 35-40 returned. 
was far more serious than a 'Tm just trying to get through been lucky, I've been blessed. miles per hour, Huesman had Huesman returned to school sprain or a strain. the weekend," Huesman said on Probably in a week or two it will reconstructive surgery on his in January 1999 but could not He had a tumor. Thursday, after the one-meter be a different feeling." right shoulder as a junior in resume diving until April. By the In the fall of 1998, Huesman final, "without having my shoul­When you devote a minimum high school. Within months of time the Big East championships first noticed the swelling in his der fall off." 
of two hours per day, five days a entering Notre Dame, due to the rolled around last year,ribs, just below his left breast. Scary statement. 
week to diving since you were constant injuries, Huesman Huesman had regained his 
So he went to a doctor, who told One day after uttering those eight years old, like Huesman retired from the platform. strength and finished fourth in Huesman to return if it grew. words, on his fifth dive in the 
has, reflections are sure to He continued with the spring­both events. He also set the 
A few weeks later, after it three-meter event, an inward 
arise. board event.5 and finished sixth school-record in the three-meter 
enlarged to about the size of a two-and-a-half pike, Huesman Huesman began on the one­in the one and three-meter during a meet against Oakland. 
quarter, Huesman called the jumped off the springboard and meter and three-meter spring­events at the Big East This year, with the shoulder doctor. He was diagnosed with a felt pain in his left shoulder. 
board while diving for the Championships as a freshman. injuries in November and then tumor in September. After visit­"You know how your shoulder Cincinnati Stingrays club team. A year later. he was fourth in again on Friday night, has cer­ing "around eight" doctors, one ends?," said Huesman, pointing At age 12, he tried the 10-meter both events. Huesman had two tainly been a struggle. But month later, Huesman under­to his right shoulder. ''It went all platform event for the first time. great diving coaches (Caiming Huesman understands things went surgery in his hometown the way out. It was out for a sec­It quickly became his favorite. Xie at Notre Dame and Charlie could be far worse. 
of Cincinnati. ond and then it slid back in." 
"Have you been up there?," Casuto in Cincinnati) and contin­"You're stressing about a test "It was one of the most fright­Even though he had dislocated Huesman asked. "You should ued to improve. and then you find something like ening things I've been through," his shoulder, Huesman still per­walk up there and look down." He spent the first couple this (the tumor) out," Huesman Huesman said, "Just the not . formed a reverse one-and-a·half For those unfamiliar with the weeks at Notre Dame for his said. "You're just like 'It's prob­knowing how things will go." with two-and-a-half twists on platform, proceed to the third junior year before the tumor ably not such a big deal in the Not knowing how things will his sixth and final dive. It was floor of your dorm, house or was diagnosed. Following the grand scheme of life.' It puts go. The perfect theme for also the last dive of his college apartment complex and look out surgery, in which the doctor things in perspective for sure." 
Huesman's journey the past few career. Although he qualified for a window. Imagine 10-15 feet of removed part of his rib, years. the NCM zone meet in March, water on the ground. Huesman could not walk on his The views expressed in this 
This weekend, at the Big East Huesman will undergo surgery Now dive. own for a few days and stayed column are those of the author swimming and diving champi­in the next few weeks. 
"It's fun and it's exhilarating," home in Cincinnati for the fall and not necessarily those of the onships, Huesman placed fourth "If [ would have had to end my Huesman said. "I miss doing it." semester. Observer 

,._ page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 19, 200 l 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hornets sting Belles 88-53 in regular season finale 
3rd Annual Justin Brumbaugh Memorial 
3 on 3 Basketball Tournament 
To Bene~t Habitat for Humanity 
February 25, 200 I At Stepan Center 
Men's and Women's "A" and "B" Divisions Trophies and T-Shirts to Division Champs Prizes to best team names and best uniforms in each division Get ready for Bookstore! Up to four members per team $15 donation per team (Checks payable to Knott Hall) 
Entry Deadline: February 21st Sign Up Online: www.nd.edu/~knott 
For more info contact: Ben Gilfillan (4-4955) bgilfill@nd.edu 
Brian Price (4-4758) price.5 l@nd.edu 

against them," Christiansen said. "We good." know that we can't [play like we did The Belles will tip off against Hope Saturday] against Hope; that just isn't Tuesday night at Hope. 


3rd Annual Justin Brumbaugh Memorial 
3 on 3 Basketball Tournament 
To Benefit Habitat for Humanity 
February 25, 200 I 
Team Name Team Captain Hall 
Phone Email 
Player 2 Hall Player 3 Hall Player 4 Hall Team Experience (Circle most applicable for team) 
HS Varsity HS JV/Frosh Jr. High Recreational 
Division Request (Circle One) 
A I (Highest) A2 Bl Bl (Lowest) 
$15 Entry Fee -Checks payable to Knott Holl Please Send to 345 Knott Halt or Email Info to price.5 l@nd.edu 
By KATIE McVOY As.irnm1 Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's basketball team ended its regular season on a low note, dropping Saturday's game to Kalamazoo 88-53. 
"It was a bad game," sophomore start­ing guard Katie Christiansen said. 
That summed up the game. as the 35­point win margin set a record for Kalamazoo as the largest margin ofvicto­ry in Hornet history. The 88-point win also ranked No. 1 for number of points scored in a single game. 
Rebounding was at the top of the list of problems Saint Mary's faced on Saturday. the Belles only grabbed 30 total rebounds compared to the Hornets' 52. 
"We didn't rebound at all," Christiansen said. "It killed us. That was the big thing." 
The Kalamazoo offense kept the ball at the Kalamazoo end of the floor and pro­vided second and third chances for shots. 
"I think our thing was that we were boxed out and nobody would go after the ball," Christiansen said. "They would get their second and third shots." 
The first half was bleak for the Belles, with only 18 points and an 18.5 shooting percentage. The Hornets led 46-18 after the first 20 minutes of play. 
Kalamazoo's consistent man-to-man coverage kept the Belles shooting per­centage down and knocked the team off­track. Although the Belles had a better second half, shooting 37.5 percent from the floor, they couldn't come back from the 28-point first-half deficit. 
"They played really good defense, they pressured us really well," Christiansen said. "It's hard to get into a rhythm." 
The Hornets got right into a rhythm. however. They had a season high 51.4 percent from tho floor. 
"It was their senior night, they were pumped and ready to play," Christiansen said. "The first half they hit all their shots and we had an off shooting night." 
And it truly was senior night for Kalamazoo seniors Lindsay Drury and Ma.ryJane Valade. Drury, a starting forward, led the Hornets with 16 points along with eight rebounds. Valade scored 10 points along with seven rebounds and four assists. Joining the senior effort were sophomores Amanda Weishuhm and Stephanie Getz with 15 and nine points respectively. 
Senior guard Julie Norman, who was playing in the last reg­ular season game of her college career, led in scoring and rebounding for Saint Mary's. Norman scored 11 points and had three rebounds. Anne Blair chipped in eight points and guard Mary Campione scored six. Elizabeth Linkous grabbed six boards, leading the Belles in rebounding. 
The Belles came into the game looking for a win to possibly boost their MIAA playoff seed; Saturday's loss guaranteed that they will face off against league leader Hope College during round one .of tournament play. They know they will have to step up their play. 
"We just know we can't take Hope lightly and we have to play our hardest Monday, February 19, 200 I 




The Observer . TODAY page 19 
,J 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 34 Crockett's tast 62 Oscar night 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2001 stand, with "the" transport
1 Hot chocolate CELEBRITIES BORN ON VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
containers 36 " ... _he 63 Kind of acid 
THIS DAY: Prince Andrew, Stan This is a wonderful day to spend 5 Bloke drove out of 64 Take cover Kenton.. Smokey Robinson.. Amy with children, friends or rela­sighr 65 _ about Tan, Justine Bateman, Jill Kre­tives. You have planned every­
9 Wire nails 
mentz, Jeff Daniels, Seal thing down to tlie last detail as
37 Summon (approximately)14 •-something 

Hapfy Bir~hday: You've got usual and will be praised for 
I said?" electronically, 66 Full complement 
everything gomg for you. Now your obvious talent. 00000
say of dwarfs

15 Timber wolf you have to recognize your tal­LIBRA (Sepl 23-0ct 22): You38 Exasperate, as 67 Newspaper ents and exercise them. Talk to won't handle criticism well today.
16 Disprove 
a neurologist? page those who can help you reach You will take offense ifyour family 
17 Toy block brand 
42 Newsman 68 Lead-in for your goals, and favors will be complains about the way you take 18 Steps in human Sevareid -aholic granted. This is not the year to care of your household responsi­evolution procrastinate. Your numbers: 2, bilities. Stick to your chores and 
43 Butter serving 

15, 22, 31, 37, 42 avoid confrontations. 00
19 Place for a 
44 Gird one's DOWN ARIES (March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
beach 
45 Animal with a 1 Not burning the Don't let minor mishaps put a Get together with friends or rela­
20 Exasperate, as 
pouch, informally mouth much damper on your spirits. Look tives. You can learn a great deal if 
a motorist? 
into unifying your family by you listen more than you talk in
is 46 Goblet material 2 Cable

23 "So what spending more time together. conversations. Lovers may want
subscriber
49 Hog's home

new?" Someone you work with may try to spend time alone, so plan a
3 "Thank Heaven 

50 Burnt _ crisp to make you look bad. Cover quieteveningfortwo.0000
24 Egyptian cobra 
for Little Girls" yourself. 000 SAGTITARIUS <NmtZ2.-Dec. 21):
51 Bright thought 25 Toy gun 

musical TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You must concentrate on fin­
noisemaker 53 Exasperate, as 
4 Where a cook Take positive action to alleviate ancial endeavors. Don't sign a 28 Orkin target a masseur? cooks any worries you have about binding contract without having 60 Burgundy grape aging. You can make changes that it checked thoroughly by your
31 Grand Coutee, 5 Contract 
will improve your looks and raise lawyer first. Losses are possible if
e.g. 61 Blacken provision 
your self-confidence. 00000 you aren't careful. 000 
6 Lottery GEMINI (May 21-June 20): CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE equipment You will be upset regarding your Your fluctuating attitudes are 7 Help in crime financial situation if you have confusing your mate. Try not to Puzzle by Gr911ory E. Paul spent too much money lately. be too judgmental when dealing 
S T A 8 Swanky 

Organize your budget carefully with emotional issues. You both
29 Track contests 48 Loved to bits 56 Horse trainer's 
P O S 9 Shop without 

and make arrangements to pay need time to think. 00 
U N anything 30 April initials 50 Juicy steak aid 
off your debts. 000 AQUARIUS ijan. 20-Feb. 18):particular in 31 California Gov. 52 Bumini;1 57 Bowery bum CANCER (June 21-July 22): Deception is evident in areas con­mind Gray_ 53 Icy coating 58 Love, Spanish­Your mate is likely to be too cerning colleagues or employers. 
~,-,.r,:""' 10 Summation 32 Ten-percenter style self-indulgent, resulting in dis­Do not believe everything you
54 Harvard or 
putes. Try to be completely hon­hear, and keep your eyes and ears 
1111111

~.;..~ ----11 Cain's brother 33 Not neat Stanford: Abbr. 59 Part of N. Y. C. 
est about your feelings and peeled for hidden clues. 000
.,...........,.....,,+,,-+=+=-1 12 Twofold 35 Slip-on shoe, 
55 Reverberate 60 Faux_ intentions. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-~ch 20): c 13 Train stop: Abbr. LEO Quly 23-Aug. 22): Your Travel for pleasure will lead to
briefly ~~hn~o~~ 37 Old hand innovative ideas will be well­valuable new acquaintances. YouA "Rocket Man" 39 TV's Winfrey Answers to, any three clues in this puzzle received today. You can make will be privy to information that 
career decisions that will change could lead to a business enter­
D .,..........,.-1 22 Moth-_ 40 Not yea are available by touch-tone phone: 
your direction and your future. prise. Keep in mind that a change 
E -,-+-,-+-,~ M E 25 Basketballer 41 Barkin or 1-900-420·5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Look into starting your own is as good as a rest. 0000 M I L M A 26 Oldsmobile Burstyn Annual sut1scriptions are available for the small business. 000 I N A E S model 46 T-shirt material best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 Birthday Baby: You are determined, intense and willing to do
A C M N S S T O R E 27 Barbecue site 47 Tongue-lashing years: 1-8U8·7-ACROSS. 
whatever is necessary to get your own way. You are a visionary with the potential to do something great People will listen to you and fol­low vour lead. 
(Need advke? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvicuom, eugenialast.com, astromate.corn.) 
e 2001 Uruversal Press Syndicate

Visit The Observer on the web at http://obseirver.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _____________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
Fox TROT 
THE". SNOW IS MELTING! 
WARM WEATHER MUST iHE SNOW 15 MELTING! 
SE COMING! FINALL'Y! FINALLY! FINALLY!

0)v' \ (n
FINALLY! 

a 
... ~net the.n ·t'ne.y:;, 5tQried gnnd11~-­BILL AMEND \ .. 
~--......,/ • 
'YOU CAN 
ALWAYS 
TELL WHO 
l)R,\YS THE 
HAROESi 

JPW provides students with enough traumatic memories to last a lifetime. 



Splish Splash 
Notre Dame women claim their fifth Big East Championships: men took fourth at the meet. 
Swimming and Diving p. 16,17
PORTS 
O
THE 

page 20 BSERVER 
Monday, February 19, 2001 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Last undefeated team falls to Rutgers 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 

... 
Assistanc Sports Editor 
So much for a perfect season. 
The No. 11 Rutgers women's basketball team avenged a Jan. 6 loss at the Joyce Center, toppling the nation's only undefeated team, 54-53 on Saturday night. 
Tammy Sutton-Brown led the Scarlet Knights, con­verting a three-point play with 28.1 seconds remain­ing before blocking Niele Ivey's last second shot under the basket. 
The loss drops the Irish to 23-1 overall, 12-1 in the Big East. 
"There was absolutely no burden at all," Irish coach Muffet McGraw told the Associated Press following the game. "We wanted to go through the whole year undefeated." 
As for suggestions that a loss would be good for the Irish. who have never been undefeated this late in a season, McGraw disagreed. 
"I don't see it that way," McGraw said. "I think this was a great opportunity for us to get a big win on the road and we missed our opportunities at the end." 
The game was decided when the Scarlet Knight guards found Sutton-Brown open on the lower-left block, where she powered 
see WOMEN/page 21 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

League winning streak ends against Pirates 

By BRIAN KESSLER Sports Writer 
Seton Hall forward Eddie Griffin proved why he might be the b e s t 

freshman See also: "Life in the wlll go on," p. 12 country Sunday. Griffin, who was suspended for the last meeting with Notre Dame, scored 24 points and grabbed 10 rebounds to lead Seton Hall (13-10, 4-8) to a 74-64 victory over No. 14 Notre Dame (17-6, 9-3). "Give Seton Hall a lot of 
credit," Irish head coach Mike Brey said. "They came 
out ready to play. They played loose and they played together. They took every­thing away from us and rat­tled us." 
The Pirates contested every shot and held the Irish to just 32 percent shooting from the field. 
"I think their wingspan bothers us," Brey said. "They are one team that gives us problems and I think that was evident today. They have length on the perimeter and I don't think we reversed the ball enough. We took a lot of quick shots and I think that played into their hands." 
Notre Dame, which ranks head coach Tommy Amaker first in the Big East in three­said. "But I think they missed 
point field goal percent­age (40.1 percent). made just 2­of-23 shots from behind the arc. 
"When you shoot eight percent from the three point line, 
'They played loose and they played together. They took everything away from us and rattled 
,;

us. 
Mike Brey head coach 
you're not going to win," Graves said. 
"One of our key emphasis points was to ta\e away the three pointer," Seton Hall a Jot of shots they would normally make." 
The Irish trailed 35-27 at the break, but quickly cut the lead to three on a rebound goal by Harold Swanagan and 
a three-point play by Ryan Humphrey. However, on the next pos­session, the Irish could have 
see MEN/page 12 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish come back to upset No. 7 
By STEVE KEPPEL Sports Writer 
The National Team Indoor Championships was a tourna­ment of ups and downs for the Irish as they won decisively in the first round against Oklahoma State but lost to defending national champion Georgia in the quarterfinals and then came back and upset No.7 Pepperdine in a consolation match. 
The match against Pepperdine was highlighted by Senior All­American Michelle Dasso as she defeated the No. 1 doubles team in the country with Becky Varnum and then went on to break the ND record for most singles wins with her 123rd vic­tory coming against No. 14 Ipek Senoglu. 
"Well, we had a good week­end." said coach Jay Louderback. "It's good for Michelle because she has been such a big part of the program and she wants to do well for the team." 
The Irish women came to the National Indoors on a streak of five straight wins and hoped to advance past the quarterfinals after losing there last year. On Thursday the 11th ranked Irish took on 40th ranked Oklahoma State where they took four of six singles matches after getting the doubles point to get the 5-2 win. The 5th ranked duo of Michelle Dasso and Becky Varnum start­ed off the tournament with an impressive victory over the 45th­ranked team of Ashleigh Dolman and Maria Phillips 8-1 at No. 1 doubles. That match was fol­lowed by victories from Cunha/Guy and GreenNaughan to seal the doubles point. 
Dasso also came out strong in singles tying the Notre Dame record with 122 victories in a solid win at the No. 1 spot. Oklahoma State rallied, howev­er, winning the next two singles matches tying the score 2-2. The tie was broken by Freshman Caylan Leslie who won 6-2. 6-0 at No. 4 singles and Becky Varnum then clinched the match with a straight set victory at No. 2 singles. 
After winning in the first round two years in a row the Irish were set to take on 2nd ranked Georgia in the quarterfi• nals. The Irish who were looking for their first ever quarterfinal 
see TENNIS/page 15 
at Hope College 
vs. Miami
SPORTS

.... 
Tuesday, 7 p.m. 
Tuesday, 7 p.m. Baseball
ATA 
at Texas San-Antonio Friday, 7 p.m . 

GLANCE • vs. Boston College 
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 
.... 









