Don't get enough football on Saturday?
PARTLY CLOUDY 

Friday 
This year's interhall championship games will kickoff Sunday at 11:30 a.m. 
HIGH 62° 
NOVEMBER 16,
with Lewis vs. Walsh. Dillon vs. Siegfried will follow the women's game. 
LOW 45° 
Irish Insider 
2001 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 53 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Dealing with the unexpected 
• Notre Dame, Saint Mary's offer support to pregnant students 
By MAUREEN SMITHE Associate News Editor 

Farley rector Sister Carrine Etheridge 
remembers several years ago when one 
Notre Dame student came back from 
summer break with one big decision to 
make. 

Discovering she was pregnant and 
without the support of the baby's father, 
[also a Notre Dame student], the woman 
had frightening questions and concerns. 
Etheridge, in conjunction with other 
on-campus support services. helped the 
student make the best decision for her­
self: life. 

"Now she's married and older and 
wiser. lt was a hard choice, but it 
wasn't a bad choice," Etheridge said. 
"God gives us nine months so we can 
take this thing step-by-step." 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's offer a variety of services to pregnant students seeking advice and support. Through health services, pastoral care and resi­dential support, women facing an unplanned pregnancy are not alone. 
Ann Thompson, director of University Health Services, said her staff provides confidential pregnancy tests and coun­seling. Regardless of the outcome, UHS will not disclose the test's results to any­one. Students can even arrange to pay for the test so records are not sent home to parents. 
Saint Mary's brings a gynecologist to campus every Tuesday, and therefore the school can offer the first prenatal exam to a student experiencing an unplanned pregnancy. 
"We are a campus of women. We want to be supportive of women," said 
see SUPPORT/page 6 
Student a finalist for quarter design 



By ELIZABETH LEE 
News Writer 
Freshman Amy Peterson has shown pride in her home state of Alabama by submitting a design for its state commemorative quarter as a part of the "SO States Quarter Program." 
Peterson ¼ill know in the next few weeks whether her design has been chosen, but she says a reporter from the Birmingham News said Alabama governor Don Siegelman was in favor of her design. 
All of the submitted designs were sent to the U.S. Mint to be evaluated for content and coin­ability, and the actual quarter will be released in 2003, as the 22nd in the series. 


Peterson's quarter design. 
Siegelman opened the contest to design the state quarter to all students in Alabama. Peterson's father, who himself had previ­ously won a contest to design the state's forestry license plate, read about the contest in the newspaper and encouraged her to submit a design for the quar­ter. 
She says that her father's past artistic success inspired her to enter the contest and be a part of Alabama's history. 
"While designing the quarter required patience and research, I really enjoyed the entire process," said Peterson. 
Siegelman declared the theme of the new quarter to be "Education: Link to the Past, Gateway to the Future," and Peterson's design for the quarter draws from different areas of education and advancement in Alabama's history. 
She began with the Cherokee 
see QUARTER/pagt 6 
. Senior facing unplanned pregnancy will embrace motherhood 
By MAUREEN SMITHE Associate News Editor 
Rubbing her belly and taking deep 
breaths, Rachel Jones soothes away 
another set of Braxton Hicks contractions. 
Well into the sixth month of her first preg­
nancy, Jones has learned how to deal with 
any surprises her body may throw at her, 
including these pre-labor pains. 
Sitting in the great hall of O'Shaugnessy, with sunlight streaming through stained glass, Jones sits with an ethereal glow. She looks just like any other Notre Dame student with her jeans, T-shirt and back­pack. 
But she isn't just like any other Notre 
Dame student. 
When Jones found out she was pregnant June 22, shock overwhelmed her to tears. The 23-year-old senior and theatre major had been properly taking birth control for years and had never planned on getting pregnant. . 
"I was that .01 percent who gets preg­nant even when they're taking everything correctly. It happens," she said. "Before I got pregnant I was totally anti-kids -they got on my nerves. I've never had much interest in having kids of my own. I've still never held a newborn." 
Breaking the news 
Once she emerged from her brief state of shock, Jones started telling her boyfriend, family and close friends. A South Bend native, Jones has spent the last eight years with her boyfriend, who is currently a student at Bethel College. She told him about the pregnancy over the phone because she "couldn't wait to tell him face-to-face." 
see PREGNANCY/page 8 


Student spirit suffers with losing season 
By MARIBEL MOREY Assistant News Editor 
Faced with a disappointing football season, student fans seem to be arriving at the sta­dium after the opening kick-off with a waning sense of spirit. 
"It makes students sound like fair-weather fans, but you can't argue with the fact that football games are more excit­ing when they're good games and we're winning," said Curt Roberts, an off-campus senior finance major. 
Because of the losing season, Saturday mornings might not seem to hold the same thrill as previous years. 
"This year I haven't woken up on Saturday with the same excitement in the past," Roberts said. "Part of the rea­son could be that I'm a senior waking up off-campus -not on campus with all the excite­ment. Part of it could be going 
and  seeing  us  lose heart­ 
breaking games."  
Brian  Dosal,  sophomore  

finance major, has seen a simi­lar reaction. 
"A lot more people are not as enthusiastic about going to the game. [Andj there's a lot less talk during the week about the 
see SPIRIT/page 6 



Friday, November 16, 2001 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

'Til the ushers throw me out 
On Sept. 5. 1998. I awoke at 7:30 a.m. in my Dillon llall dorm room hung-over but filled ,vith excitement. In a fr.w hours I would watch my first Notre Dame football game inside Notre Danw Stadium as a student. 
Nothing could be more 
exciting. I \'\ antPd to do it all that first morning. 
I booed Lee Corso at ESPN College Gameday. I watched th!' band march into the Stadium. I cheered until I couldn't even say my name as the Irish upset the defending national champi­on Michigan Wolverines. LatPr that night I watched tlw replay on \VNDU and relived everv moment of that first ga111e. It was an exhilarating event. 

Ever since that first morning, itjust hasn't been the same. 
I've ·watched 23 more games inside the Stadium as a studPnt bt1t nothing could match that first morning. It has nothing-to do with Notre Danrn's record or what team the Irish were playing. I've S!~cn improbable blocked kicks and frustrating fumbles. I've watched the Irish take No. 1 Nebraska to overtime only to fall short and I've seen them almost blow a game to Navy. But none of them could match that first morning. 
For some reason. I became complacent. Attending a Notre Dame home game was no longer special for me. It was routine. 
I camr, to Notre Dame not because of its great academic reputation or its Catholic mis­sion. I came for the football. I r.ame for the game-day tradition. 
But once I got here, that tradition became commonplace. And I regret that. Because tomorrow. every­thing changes. 
Tomorrov/s gamn against Navy will be my last honw game as a student at Notre Daine. Tomorrow. I want to recapture the spirit and {'nergy that filled me as a freshman. 
I want to wake up tomorrow morning, hung­over, but exhilaratPd. I don't \Vant to take any­thing for granted. This is my last time and I • don't want to regret anything. 
I will tailgate on tlrn soccer field. I will watch the concert on the steps and break my friends in the band. I will enter the Stadium as early as possible and savor every second. 
I want to feel the band's drumbeats pulse through nw and kno\v that Notre Dame's band is the bi~st in the country. I want to watch my fritrnds storm out of the tunnel high-stepping in their white striped pants. 
I can't wait for the golden helmets to sparkle in the sun as the announcer screams "I lere rome the Irish!" 
I wc1n't skip any of the cheers. I won't miss any of the hand gestures or chants. When the Irish score. I am going up for push-ups no matter how much my friends complain about lifting my fat butt into the air. 
And then at the t'nd. when the final score is 
tallied and tlw teams have left the field. I will 
link arms with my classmates. I will sway to 
thP Alma Mater and I will cry. I'll cry because 
it's over. I'll cry because I know that my col­
lege days arc coming to an end. And when the 
band finishes playing, I won't leave. 
I'll sit there in the empty Stadium, crying 
and remembering. I'll savor every second of 
my final game until the ushers throw me out. 
Because after tomorrow. I can never go 
back. 

Contact A1ike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu.. 
The vieu·s expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Obscr\'cr regards irsdfas .1 profossional puhli..:ation and srrin·s for the highest st.md.irds of journalism ar all times. We do, however, rc..:ognin· th.tr \W will nuke mistakes. Ifwe have made a misr.1kc, please i.;unra-:c us :11 631-4 'i41 so we cm ..:orrn:t our nror. 
Th.c Ohs.rwr <l "\I'\ ""'' 2-/4000) is puhli,lml Mond.1>· rltroui-:h l'rid.1r rx,qn d11rir1i,: ,·x.1111 .mt! ,·.1c.11ion pt·ri,><ls. Tht1 Ohst"rw.-r is., memb<:r of du.­A"oci.11,·d l'n:s,. All rqm1duniun rii-:111, .ir,· res.:rvn!. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Weekend snow battles turn violent  Students withdraw over marijuana  
Tuesday. November 12. 1996  Friday, November 16. 1979  
Zahm Ilall and Dillon Hall were targets of two large•  Following a University investigation. three  
scale snowball fights on the Quads, resulting in injuries  undergraduate students withdrew from Notn•  
and damage to dorms. Approximately 150 students were  Dame for the selling and possession of marijuana..  
involved. hurling snowballs and iceballs at buildings and  Tvvo other students received 30 hours of work and  
each other.  A window in Dillon was broken and shards  wr,re assigned a term paper for the possession of  
of glass 11ew into a students chest. drawing blood.  marijuana.  

Compiled from U.Wire reports 

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Krzyzewski signs lifetime contract with D~ke 
DUBHAM, N.C. 
have not been released. But Alleva 

Less than five months asgo, Mike said Krzyzewski would be compen­Krzyzewski said he wanted a con­sated "appropriately, reflecting his tract that would give him greater job achitwements and his ni.anv nmtri­stabilitv. Stabilitv to its fullest extent butions to the athll'tir prog~am and was granted to .the 26-year veteran the University." In turn, Krzyzewski when he signed a lifetime contract stated his new contract le!'t him with Duke University. "well compensatPd." 
Annou need at a press conference Alleva, Krzyzewski and Keohane~ Wednesday afternoon, the contract have to celebrate commitment, and initiated contract negotiations during mandates Krzyzeivski serve as this contract celebrates commit-the summer. following tlw Duke's head basketball coach until . ment," Krzyzewski said. "You do it in announcement that Krzyz('Wski at least 2011 and binds him to con­marriage. and vou do it in a number would be inducted into thP Naismith clude his career at Duke. Krzvzewski of things. I'm doing it with my uni­Memorial Basketball llall of' Fame. also has been named speci/.{l assis­versity on this day, which makes nw Krzyzewski said his goal \Vas to tant to president Nan Keohane. feel great." reach an agrf'(~ment with Alleva Radiating a huge smile as he sat by If Krzyzewski's lifetime contract is befon, th,~ start ol' Duk,,'s S!'ason. Keohane and director of athletics Joe analogous to a marriage, no one which begins lVtonday in Maui, Alleva. Krzyzewski was clearly wants to publicly recite the vows of Hawaii, aner a final exhibition ganw pleased with what he termed a con­the union. Except for the stipulation Thursday night. ·with littl<~ specula­summation of "marriage" with his that keeps Krzyzewski at Duke for tion from local nwdia. the proceed• longtime institution. the next 10 years. the terms of the ings were held in private. to the sat­
"There are times where you just contract -including his salary -isfaction of the involved parties. 
BAYLOR UNIVERSITY AUBURN UNIVERSITY 
Alums rescued from Afghanistan Frats closed due to racist photos 
WACO. Texas AUBUHN. Ala. 

After 104 days of imprisonment in Afghanistan. two The contr'oversy surrounding racist photos tak('n at Baylor University graduates and six other foreign aid two Auburn UnivPrsity frat<'rnity llallo\\'(\Pll parti<'s workers were released Wednesday by their Taliban continues, and it might not din until dramatic chang1\ is captors. The two Baylor alumrnw, Dayna Curry, 30, enacl1'd. B<•ta Theta Pi, one ol' tlw two offonding rrat.-r­and I leather Mercer, 24, were arrested bv the Taliban nities, \-Vas disbanded by its national organization on Aug. 3 on charges related to preaching Christianity -Sunday~ That action was immediately f'ollowNl by a 
while working for Shelter Now International, an withdrawal of tlrn fraternity's charter and recognition German-based aid organization. Four Germans, two by the UnivPrsity. On Tuesday Delta Sigma Phi was Australians and at least 16 Afghan citizens associated closed by its national chapti~r as well as by a vote of with Shelter Now wnre arrested along with Curry and the fraternity's board of directors. "We !'cit that any­Mercer on similar charges. According to a U.S. thing less would not do justice to tlw many, many peo­Department of Defense news release, the eight foreign ple who were hurt and offendPd by tlw actions or thl' aid workers were airlifted from Afghanistan to members of our Auburn chapt<~r." said Jon Ilorkman. Pakistan by three U.S. special opnrations helicopters at Delta Sig's ex(~cutive dirPctor. In a statc~nwnt n'l<\aS(\d 
3:40 p.m. CST 12:10 a.m. in Afghanistanl. According to by Delta Sig: I lockman issund an apology on b(~half' or the news release, the detainees were met by the heli­the fraternity's membPrship. "This inl'idPnt has bPPn copters in a field near Ghazni. Afghanistan, 50 ll)ilcs painful for everyone involved," said David Wright, gPn­southwest of Kabul. "This effort involved many people eral secretary of' Beta Theta Pi's national organization. and several entities," Secretary of Defense Donald "Losing a chapter is always difficult, but the actions Rumsfold said. "U.S. forces performed the extraction which gave rise to this decision arc not rell,!ctivn of our well, and the American people can be proud of them." fraternity's values and cannot be tolerated." 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWca1hcr".• fon:casl for Jay1imc conditions and high tcmp,.-ralurcs 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Friday, Nov..16. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 28 
IC 2001 Ac cuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY
~l11 
Preuu~: 
® © D D D D D D

Wednesday ~-~ 48 30 High Showers f ..s-tonna Snow Sunny
Low Rain Flun-iea Ice Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V.ta AssoclBted Press

t-:,...,.,s·,..,_;-',.,:: 
·v· 
•. Atlanta 74 49 Las Vegas 75 49 Portland 54 41 Baltimore 72 37 Memphis 73 50 Sacramento 69 47 Boston 62 34 Milwaukee 56 47 St. LOUIS 75 54

4,Q,~4.QQ (f ~ ~ 
Chicago 64 47 New York 67 39 Tampa 77 62 

Sho~rs T-storms Ram Fl,;r;ies S~o-~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 77 58 Philadelphia 71 40 Washington DC 71 45 

Via Associated PMS$ Graph,csNr,r 
~ !:;4,•is\11~;1 ;~3:;~:;1:" :._._:. ii ····•.•··.•· > ·.· 

~ .A....&. 


Friday, November 16, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ANYBODY WANT A SHOT? 

SONIA WALLACE/The Observer A student receives a flu shot on Thursday, the last of three days that free flu shots were offered by University Health Services in LaFortune Student Center and the Library. 
QUALITY Service• Student Di nts • Gift Certificates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! f' VOTED"1 
For Your Best Tan E.verJ
by people

I whoknow Get a Fun Tan I 'tanning! 
Yoµr choice! Either 10 tanning bed sessions forjust $35 
OR an entire Mon.th of bed tanning for only $40. I AND when you bring in this coupon get 25% off our wkie selection of tanning lotions! I 
272.~7653 NEW University Location State Road 23 & Ironwood I 
:=G::6:: c=n:_o~r~::d~cK~e=:,_ 2~-~0<:_So~th=:d~.:_k~no_:1=:.._000_ J 




APARTM·ENTS 
( "/ewl,111<1 and lmmmod Rood,: /,WI/ I ~ '/e,·elw1d Road! So111h B,•ml. lmlimw -ifJ637i I:! J<Ji:!7:!-8 / Iii 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Se1nester 
*Within 111inutes ofcainpus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and t\vo bedroom apartments. s01ne with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes n1e1n~ership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club 


Students travel to SOA protest 
By MEGHANN£ DOWNES News Writer 
This weekend thousands of individuals from across the country will unite to seek the closure of the school that has provided military training for individuals who have gone on to corrupt dictators and mili­tary officials in Latin America. 
Young, old, religious, laity, pacifists and anarchists will descend upon Columbus, Ga. to engage in the annual non­violent protest to close the School of the Americas (SOA). or as it is now known, the \,Vestern Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation. 
A group of Notre Dame stu­dents, who are sponsored by 
the  Center  for  Social  
Concerns,  leave  Friday  
evening following  a  5 p.m.  

vigil at the Peace Memorial. 
For many of the Notre Dame stude·nts who are attending, this weekend is important to them because of the aware­ness that it brings and the message that it represents. 
"I have spent time in El Salvador and Mexico and feel called to represent the pain and suffering that I heard of through the friends I made. I have seen the pieces and remains of U.S. military equip­ment used to kill men, women, 
and children and I feel 
responsible to some extent for 
this aspect of U.S. involve­
ment. For me, the issue deals 
with the fact that a School 
here in the U.S. was directly 
involved in trying to kill those 
who have become my friends 
in El Salvador," said senior 
Brendan Egan. 
Since its establishment in 
1946, the SOA, a U.S. govern­
ment funded school, has 
trained more than 60,000 
Latin American soldiers. El 
Salvador's Atlactl Battalion, 
which is composed of several 
SOA graduates, is responsible 
for the deaths of six Jesuit 
priests, more than 800 deaths 
at the El Mazote massacre and 
more than 500 deaths at the 
Sumpul massacre. 
"I think for me personally, it's more important for me to go this year to be a voice to say what our policy is in Latin America and to take a stance to say that I don't support what our country is doing with regard to Latin America," said senior Megan Sheehan. 
As a result of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, this year's protest has taken on a new significance. 
"If we are against terrorism then we have to recognize and abolish our own complicity with terrorism. Terrorism is not only Bin Laden and Islamic extremism. Terrorism is training oppressive military forces as well as such things as drive-by shootings.• Terrorism is any act or force that attempts to drive fear and a sense of death upon a peo-. ple. If George Bush is truly against terrorism, then he should close down the terror­ist training camp in Fort Benning, Ga.," said Egan. 
One of the many aims of the protest has always been to increase awareness of the injustices and infringements on freedom that many in Latin America are subjected to due to their military and govern­mental leaders. 
The schedule for this year's 

protest has changed due to the nation's current battle against • terrorism and the heightened state of national security. The protest will take place at South Columbus Park instead of outside the gates of Ft. Benning where the School of the Americas is located. 
The two day event includes talks from family members of victims who were killed by SOA graduates, analysts and educators. Vigils and prayer services take place throughout the day, interspersed with music. 
Many past participants said that the most powerful part of the weekend is the solemn funeral procession that will take place on Sunday. Due to the changed location, the pro­cession will begin at the park and participants will walk car­rying coffins that are symbolic of the six_ Jesuit priests who were murdered by SOA gradu­ates. A drum beat is heard in the background as the list of victims is read aloud. 
The need for a non-viohin t protest is more important than ever this year. The Columbus police will be present and will take action against those who violate any laws. Participants will be taking a risk by leaving the grounds of the park to walk in the procession and can be held liable. 
Unlike in past years when protestors would cross the gates of the SOA, the protest will end in front of the recent­ly constructed eight foot perimeter fence where partici­pants from the procession will cover the fence with pictures of victims. 
"Every time l go I am struck by the hope that there is and the power of the people who are acting on the behalf of others along with the power of unity and strength to act out against violence," said senior Rachel Soltis. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at Downes.4@nd.edu. 
~:~~u~~:;hsfrom 
"\\ \ . / .. · ·· 
Tony Rice, ~ wit~r;;ut:~da~e'II ;;:,., : Chris Zorich, ~ give you a -~: Joey Getherall, ::::: FREE CAP!~ Allen Pinkett and-:'"'.~: PLUS get an additional ~'½-: 
Martin lngelsby! ~ lQO/o Off~j Plus, we'll have Big .,,,< your purchase"-.....~ : 
1
Screen TV's, so you can ·.•· ; · // \ ~"" watch the game while \ you shop! t _cuvEtANo only at :7'{ 
80/90 TOLLWAY
The Logan Center ,-.---c.........,.ioiiiii,i______~ 
1235 N. Eddy ~ 
DOUGLAS '° 
South Bend, IN 46617 LOGAN CENTER
Nov. 15-18 • ND vs. Navy Game 

Righi across from @ Notre Dame ::f! 
Days Open Time Open 
Thursday 12 pm -5 pm 
Stadium entrance 8 ! Friday 
on the comer or o : Eddy and Angela. 1 
9 am -7 pm 
Saturday 8 am-7 pm 
I 
WISON I
Sunday 10 am-1 pm 
¦ I 
I 
____________, : ---------------------------------------------·----------4. 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 16, 200 I 
Grandmother to join Speakers discuss religion, terror 
SOA protestors 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 
Among the dust-filled road­ways of Guatemala City, dump trucks rolled through the metropolis center. Rumbling along the city streets, piles of corpses lay heaped in the trucks like cargo, limbs hang­ing limp over the sides. 
It was a message, 77-year old Hazel Tulecke believes. from the government to the Guatemalan people: obey the government, or end up like those who didn't. 
"It was a warning to the people -'Don't get your hands in this, or you'll end up like these cadavers,"' she said. 
And although she didn't know for sure. Tulecke began to hear rumors circulating among the intellectual under­ground that the violence in Central America 

was sup­"Now. I can protest in s a i d ported by 
other ways. {The college "Presente," to the United symbolize the
students] are a spot of
States gov­living and the 
ernment. hope for me." dead were Observing there togeth­the Central er, she said. 
Hazel Tulecke
America "It brings
senior School of Americas
political cli­tears to my mate while · protestor 
eyes thinking
living with an interna­tional paci­fist group named Peace Brigades International in the early 1980s, Tulecke talked to government leaders and local professors about the unstable Guatemalan society. In the midst of a government quest to rid the country of Myan indigenous peoples. protestors were frequently kidnapped by the government~ ea,rning the name of "disappeared." The only connection the pacifists could make was that their bodies were the ones that ended up in the trucks, parad­ed around as a threat to those who thought of contesting the government. 
It was after that visit to Central America when Tulecke -a lifelong activist from Yellow Springs, Ohio ­knew she had to do some­thing to stop the violence. While she dabbled in other protest projects, even landing herself in jail after protesting the nation's nuclear war strat­egy at the Pentagon, she never forgot the images she saw in Central America. 
Back home in the United States, Tulecke was walking with her husband in a commu­nity center when she saw Father Hoy Bourgeois, founder of School of the Americas Watch, talking with communi­ty leaders about his organiza­tion. 
She was immediately taken with his beliefs, having wit­nessed the violence in Central America, and began to be enlightened by his movement. 
"I had a better understand­ing of just how the U.S. gov­ernment supported these assassinations," she said. "In Central America ... I just saw an egregious example of U.S. militarism. I've been a long­term pacifist ... it was some­thing I just didn't go for at the time." 
Tulccke began attending the yearly School of Americas \Natch demonstrations in Fort Benning, Ga., where she lis­tened to Bourgeois and other SOA protestors claim that the officials responsible for the Central American violence were being trained on American soil. 
"For people who have gone to Central America, a huge majority of those people are going to be against School of the Americas," Tulecke said. "But the demonstration was special for people who hadn't been to Central America to see the evils happening right on their territory." 
Despite the reputation the demonstration has developed as a non-violent protest, Tulecke was arrested for protesting at the 2000 demon­stration, as one of 68 partici­pants who were labeled as demonstrators who "cr:ossed the line." 
Tulecke marched in a pro­cession bathed in mock blood to symbolize the battered and killed. As a list of names of the dead were read audibly, each person in the procession 
about it," she 
said. "It's a very moving drama." 
But Tulecke and other pro­testors crossed a police line, and were arrested. Although she knew the risk of the action, she did it anyway. The consequences, she said, didn't scare her. 
After a trial last spring, she was sentenced to three months in an Illinois federal prison. 
"We were looking at a high­er law, and recognizing that the law of the nation is not the highest law, not the one you really owe your allegiance to," she said. "You just don't follow your country into legal ways." 
During Tulecke's three months in prison, she and the other nine protestors sent with her made connections with a "welcoming" inmate communi­ty, she said. While she never knew what any of her fellow prisoners were there for, she realized they were facing simi­lar goals. 
"I didn't understand it at first," she said. "It took quite a while to figure out why they were so happy we had come. We had faced a common enemy -the government as a system, institution," she said. 
Tulecke will join the college students -including a group from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's -common citizens and the religious in Fort Benning, Ga. this weekend, although she does not plan to place herself in danger of arrest. But she's been speak­ing to college students, who, in her words, are the future of the School of Americas Watch movement. 
What she tells them, she said, is why the movement is important to her, and why she disagrees with much of American foreign policy and believes so strongly in paci­fism. 
"Now, I can protest in other ways," she said. "[The college students] are a spot of hope for me." 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gil10943@saintmarys.edu 
ment of a Jewish state has
By ANDREW THAGARD 
contributed to this school of 
News Writer 
thought as well, he said. 
"With every year of disaster Notre Dame professors from you have this growth in fun­the anthropology, theology, damentalism," Gad-el-Hak engineering and history said. "Many people believe departments and a Kroc fundamentalism arose from Visiting Fellow professor dis­the defeat in these years." cussed the religious aspects The group emphasized the surrounding the events of need to recognize the origin Sept. 11 and the ongoing con­of Islamic fundamentalism 
flict  in  and strive to  
Afghanistan  better under­ 
in a Thursday night panel discussion.  "/ must admit I was mystified {by Islam]. But I don't want to be  stand the Muslim faith. "I must admit I was  
T h e g r o u p ,. including Holy Cross  mystified much longer." Michael Baxter  mystified [by Islam}," Baxter said. "But I don't  
priests  Holy Cross Priest  want  to  be  

Michael Baxter and Patrick Gaffney, Mohamed Gad-el-Hak from the engi­neering department and visit­ing professor Thomas Scheffler. focused not only on Islam fundamentalism, but also Christianity and how the two religions interrelate. 
"One way to look at this is a problem of Muslims," said Gaffney. "Our task as Americans is to start engag­ing them. We've got to work together so it isn't 'us versus them."' 
The panel discussed funda­mentalism in the two faiths ­a way of thinking that has its roots in Christianity, accord­ing to Gad-el-Hak. 
Gad-el-Hak said that funda­mentalism began to take root within Muslims after a series of "disaster" years beginning in 1920 with European domi­nation of the Arabic peninsu­la. American involvement in the region and the establish-
mystified m u c h longer." 
"What gave them [the ter­rorists] the courage, some would say the hubris, to chal­lenge a state so much more powerful?" Scheffler rhetori­cally asked. 
The group. according to Scheffler, was motivated and acted on anger, the opportu­nity to start and sustain their cause, and the confidence that this cause will prevail. 
"The third element is pro­vided by religion," Scheffler said. 
Islam cultivates a divine promise that God will protect the religious both in this world and in the afterlife. according to the panel. 
The group, however, was quick to point out that reli­gion should not be held accountable for the events of particularly religious Extremism," Baxter said. "There's so much awfulness in the events of two months ago that is seems overwhelm­ing." 
Along with a better under­standing of Islam, the United States needs to reevaluate its policy toward the Middle East, the panel said. 
"Part of the complaint against the West is their sup­port of the corrupt govern­ments that fundamentalists are trying to unseat," Gad-el­Hak said. 
"They have an image, an icon of power that seems to be unresponsive," Gaffney said. "They feel the world is unjust to them. They live in places that don't respect their freedom and dignity." 
The panel said that under­standing the roots of these problems is vital to under­standing the current situation and ensuring good relations with the world's one billion Muslims and four million adherents to Islam in the United Sates. 
"Maybe the days of Osama bin Laden are numbered," Scheffler said. "But the reli­gious mindset is deeply root­ed and it won't disappear with the capture of Kabul." 

"Religious Dimensions of the Conflict" was one of a series of Quad Panel discus­sions organized by the Kroc Institute and geared toward reflecting on the events of Sept. 11. Approximately 30 people attended the Thursday , night discussion held at McGlinn Hall. 
Sept. 11. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at 
"Religion is _going to get a 
Thagard. I@nd.edu. 
bad rap after all these events, 
---~---­Saint Mazy's College 
O
NOTRE DAME INDIANA 
Tha Nation's Pramlar Catholic Women's Co//ege 
29TH ANNUAL 
EUROPEAN SUMMER STUDY PROGRAM 

Courses offered in IIistory, Education, Music, Culture and International Business._ 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 e-mail: dstefanc@saintrnarys.edu Fax: European Summer Study Program (219) 284-4866 


. ·.;.•
RLD.............·....•... >J> 
f 
'.•"}·:::::. 

ATION 

Fridav, November 16, 200 I COMPILED FHOM THI~ 0HSEHVEH \VIHE SEHVICES page 5 
; . 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

U.S. may allow food sales to Cuba: 
For tlw first timr since the Unit<\d Staks imposPd tradt' sanctions against Cuba f'our drcad<'s ago. llavana is nrgotiating a dral \·Vith ;\nwrican producnrs to buy rood and agri('ultural products to rnpl<'nish stocks dl'stroy<'d by a n'rl'nt hurrican<'. 
Nations hope to aid global growth: 
H<'aching a consPnsus that th<)y hopr will r<'jUV<'nalf' tlw world's <'ronomy. trade minis­tPrs from mor<' than 140 nations agr1wd today on an ag1,nda to toppll' tariffs and lib­Praliz<' tradr· on l'VPrything l'rom vd1(•at to insuranr<',poliries. ln six days of' nearly round-tlw-clork nwrtings in this PPrsian Gull' cmiratr. tlw nwrnbrrs of' thP World Trade Organization sought to balancP thnir national intPrnsts against tlw urgent nPed to shor11 up th<) world's battt'n'd Pconomy. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

New clues in airline crash found: 
American Airli,ws Flight 587 twi('(~ ran into turbulPnrP Jpft by a jumbo ,int. including a blast of a.ir that sPnt it carnening sidnways just seconds bdorn it crashed, investigators said Thursday. The doomed plane's flight data n~t'.ord<~r indiralf•s llw Airbus A300 had tvvo '\-vak1· 1•ncountPrs during its thrnP-minutP 11ight. said \1arion Blak1'y. chairwoman or tlw National Transportation Safety Board. 
Two killed after trains collide: 
Clt•anup nPvvs dt)arl'd the wr<'rkag1~ of two f"rPight trains Thursday as invPstigators trit•d to d<'l<'rn1i1w tlw rausP ol' tlw lwad-on crash that killl'd l\vo railroad work<'rs and in,iurPd two otlwrs. Tlw Canadian National trains C'.ollidtid about <, ,Lm, in it marshy, wotHIPd area of Oakland County. Undl'rshnrilT Tom ()uisPnbPJTV said, Two schools dosPd and rnsi­dPnts WNP <'vacuatPd until authoritiPs dPter­mi1wd no hazardous matPrials had IPakPd. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Lawmakers push terrorism bill: 
Two stalt1 lawmak(•rs plan to push a parkag11 ol' bills dPsig1wd to nnhan<·•· tlw statf''s abili­ty to rPspond to tPrrorist acts. B<•p. Mikn Murphy and H<'p. DalP Grubb announced lhPir proposals Thursday and said they nxpnctPd bipartisan support for tlwm when tlw CPnPral Assnmbly convenPs in January. Tlw eight-point plan includPs a constitutional anwndnwnt that provides an ordPr of sucles­sion if' tlw offices of tlw govf'rnor and lieu­l<'nant govnrnor an~ vacant at thf' same timf' and tlw Cennral Ass<imbly is unabtP to meet imnwdiat1•ly to appoint a rn'w governor, 
Market Watch November 15 
Dow Jones  9,872.39  +48.78  
Up: 1,492  Same: 204  Co1nposite Volume: I .450,5404,000  
AMEX:  796.72  -21.88  

NASDAQ: 1,900.57 -2.62 NYSE: 579.79 +0.31 S&P 500: l.142.24 +l.03 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -0.40 -0.1639.48 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)+l.26 +0.25 20.14 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.72 -0.5430.78 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +2.04 +0.2713.49 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.87 -0.1314.79 
AFGHANISTAN 

AFP PHOTO 

British Royal Marine Commandos take part in an exercise at Camp Fairburn in the desert of Oman October 14, 2001. The British are now involved in humanitarian operations in territory controlled by the Northern Alliance. 
British troops fly into Bagram 
retained in the area after after Britain put thousands Brita.in is a key ally or 
Associated Press 
Opcration Swift Sword, a of soldiers on 48-hour the United States in its vvar 
BAGHAM major military e xc rcise notice for duty in the on the Taliba·n. launched 

Up to 100 British com­stag<•d in Oman. n~gion. in response to the Sept, 11 mandos hav<' flown into British Prime Minister Franc£\ said Thursday it attacks on New York and Bagram airbase north of Tony Blair had put British would send troops to \,Yashington. blanH~d on tlw Afghan capita:! Kabul. troops on standby to be northern Afghanistan "in a Saudi-born militant Osama dcfonsP sources said rushed to Afghanistan to matter of days" as part of bin LadPn. Thursday. secure airports and aid an international aid and Blair said this \\'eek he 
The sources said the routes after Northern reconstruction mission to could not rule out that Hoval Marines \-Vere check­Alliance troops swept the the country. British troops could play a ing out the base·s facilities Taliban from great swaths "We are working on a "front-line offensive" role and paving the way for of' the country. French contribution, prob­in Afghanistan. humanitarian operations International ably with other coalition But he stressed, "The in an area which is now in Development Minister countries. to create a secu­main purpose of these the hands of the opposition Clare Short stressed on rity base that would troops would be in the Northern Allianc<~. Thursday the need to reestablish infrastructures context of multinational 
"They did not have to move swiftly. and normal living cond i­efforts to mako safe the fight their way in," said "The crucial next step in tions in the northern humanitarian supply one defonsc source. terms of the humanitarian zone," Defense Minister routes now opening up as 
The British soldiers were effort is securing order," Alain Hichard told a result of military drawn from forces Short told reporters a day reporters. progress." 
Security bill ready for approval 
President Bush or House other airports could seek permission
Associated Press 

Hepublicans initially wanted. The from the federal Transportation \NASHIN(;TON Senate prevailed in its insistence that Department to use private security llouse and Senate negotiators the screeners should be federal companies or state and local law reached agreement today on a major employees, at least for three years. enforcement officers, in place of fed­aviation security bill that will put The improvements in airplane eral employees. In addition, all air­fedrral employees in place to screen security, including higher wages for port security would be under control travelers and baggage at all the screening personnel. will be financed of the Transportation Department, as nation's airports vvithin one year. with a foe of $2.50 imposed on each the Ilouse wanted -not the Justice 
The agreement dears the way for passenger boarding a plane. Department, as the Senate had pro­final approval of the legislation by House Hepublicans did g<'t some. posed. both houses or Congrnss on Friday. degree of flexibility. Five airports Under th<> agrPenwnt. all clwckNI 
Whit<' Ilouse officials welcomed the could conduct pilot projects testing bags must be scTPPned for bombs accord. llowever. under tlw agrPc­the usf' of privatf' contractors to do and Pxplosiv<'S by DPr. 31. 2002. At nwnt. the fpdcral govPrnmcnt would the screrning. under fr•deral sup,~rvi­pn>.snnt, fower than 10 p1'1-cent of have a much larger role than sion and control. After three years, such bags are scret1ned. 

Friday, November 16, 200 I 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Quarter 
. continued from page 1 
leader, Sequoia, who created the alphabet for his tribe. She next chose to add the Southern pine branch. both the state tree of Alabama and a symbol of forestry and agriculture. 
Next, she integrated the stat­ue· of Vulcan in Birmingham, which represents Alabama's early 20th-century steel indus­try. Peterson then added the State Capitol Building in Montgomery to symbolize ptogress in education and civil righli;. 
Lastly, the Saturn IV Moon Rocket represents the impact of NASA's research in Huntsville. 
Peterson chose these images to represent the history and future of education in Alabama and. takes great pride in her 
Support 
continued_ from page 1 
Cathi DeCleene, the Health and Wellness director at Saint Mary's. "We encourage women to talk to their sup­port system." 
Although prenatal health care facilities for pregnant women do not exist on either campus, Thompson said both schools provide transporta­tion to any off-campus doc­tor's office. She said they especially recommend the Women's Care Center in downtown South Bend. 
In congruence with the Catholic Church's beliefs, nei­ther school provides informa­tion about local abortion clin­ics or birth control methods. 
"There's enough knowledge and education and marketing that you have to be responsi­ble for yourself," Thompson said. 
Pregnant students are wel­come to live on campus until the birth, as stipulated in both du Lac and the Saint Mary's Student Handbook. 
"There's no disciplinary action. If students are preg­nant then they are welcome to stay in the residence halls through the duration of the pregnancy," said Jerry Madsen, assistant director of residence life at Saint Mary's. "Obviously, Saint Mary's dis­courages premarital sex, but it's not like we become the pregnancy police or the sex police. We encourage women to be careful." 
Not everyone thinks the University is doing an ade­quate job providing support for pregnant women. Kathleen Biddick, gender studies professor and faculty advisor to the Women's Resource Center, said improvements should be made. 
"Maybe students feel more comfortable going to town. I feel that if things here were brought up in a more state. 

"So much of Alabama's his­tory and its many contribu­tions are overlooked, and I hope that my illustrations can serve as reminders of Alabama's accomplishments to Alabamians and to all Americans," Peterson said. 
Peterson is an art major and has always been interested in the visual arts. "I've been drawing and painting as long as I can remember," said Peterson. 
She is very excited about the prospect of her design being chosen. 
"Just the thought of having my artwork on a coin blows my mind away," Peterson said. "That is a forever thing." 
Contact Elizabeth Lee at lee. l 20@nd.edu. 
straightforward manner at the health center everyone . would be better off. We deeply cherish health," Biddick said. 
Notre Dame student Rachel Jones, pregnant with her first child, agrees with Biddick. 
"Pregnancy is a normal thing. Why are we ignoring it? There are no options. The University should advertise services to help women," Jones said. 
Regardless, Etheridge insists that support is the main focus. 
"You don't have to go it alone. You don't have to make every decision within the first 48 hours," she said. "Life is beautiful no matter how it is conceived." 
Living in a female dorm, she has witnessed incredible acts of spirit and generosity towards women dealing with an unplanned pregnancy. 
"In every instance, friends rallied around the pregnant woman. We call ourselves a community -does that only mean in good times?" Etheridge said, adding that she has even seen a few dorm-sponsored baby show­ers over the years. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at msmithe@nd.edu. 
Pregnancy 
continued from page 1 
With her 16-year-old sister due in a month with her first child and her 21-year old sister a new mother, Jones said their mother was-ready to support her from the start. 
"It shocked her, but she is very supportive. I'm 23. Had I been 17 or 18 I think she would have had more of a say-so. She still has her usual mom questions, though," Jones said. 
Without a doubt, Jones said her greatest source of strength com.es from her friends, espe­cially those in the Notre Dame theatre department. Jones came to Notre Dame as a chemistry major. but found the tight-knit family atmosphere of the theatre department especially appealing. 
That family has been the most supportive aspect of Notre Dame. 
"If they had been negative all this time, I don't think I'd be able to be as accepting of my situa­tion as I've been," Jones said. 
Facing obstacles and changes 
Jones said most students are not as comfortable with her con­dition as her friends in the the­atre department. Criss-crossing campus everyday has been quite a challenge for her. Aware of the gaping stares and inquiring minds, Jones can't help but feel like an outsider. She opts to stay in most nights rather than go to bars where she'II be the only sober one out. She spends her money on diapers and baby clothes, not new clothes for an upcoming party. She knows that there are only a handful of women who get pregnant on campus every year, making it harder for the other students who· don't know how to react or what to say. 
"I don't know if people think I'm pregnant or just fat," Jones said, even though she has gained only seven pounds during the past six months. "People stare. I catch people staring at my stom• ach and I want to ask, 'Is there a foot hanging out of me or what?"' 
Jones insists that she wel­comes conversation and ques­tions from her fellow curious classmates. In fact, she'd love to discuss the issue with other women in her position. Her. largest complaint with the way Notre Dame handles pregnancy lies in the lack of a peer support group. 
"I refuse to believe that I am the only pregnant woman here. Even gay students who are bla­tantly discriminated against have a group," she said, suggest­ing that a group be formed to bring together pregnant stu­dents, new parents, students who gave their children up for adoption and even students who underwent an abortion. 
Jones said her experience with Notre Dame's support services has been less than exemplary. With no on-campus day care services and no residential facili­ties for single mothers, Jones expressed real concern for other women from outside the South Bend area who have no family in the vicinity or immediate knowl­edge of nearby health services. 
She has anxiety about walking onto campus from Cl once cold­er temperatures settle over the Golden Dome, a concern that fell on deaf ears to the Notre Dame Security and Police. 
When she approached them requesting a special parking space that would limit the dis­tance she'd have to walk to class, they insisted that she's had to bring in a "doctor's note" to verify her need. 
"You would think that they would want me to be as safe as possible. There aren't many pregnant students on campus ­there wouldn't be a parking problem if they offered special parking for pregnant students," she said. 
That wasn't her only on-cam­pus obstacle. 
While trying to drive onto cam­pus to pick up her laundry· earli­er this fall, she faced a particu­larly skeptical gate guard. 
"Everyone always lies when they want to get on campus. This time I was telling the truth: I am pregnant and I can't walk across campus with a heavy laundry basket," Jones said. 
The guard finally relented when Jones took off her seatbelt, preparing to get out of the car and show him her growing belly. 
Despite a few uncomfortable instances, Jones recalls one comforting moment when a Notre Dame staff member on a golf cart offered her a ride in from D6. She was struggling to make it to class on time, and her angel-in-disguise gave her "the first bit of compassion" she encountered at Notre Dame. 
Keeping the baby 
Right from the start, Jones knew that she wanted to keep the baby. Uncomfortable with the idea of adoption, she never considered abortion either even though she is pro-choice. /\s soon as she found out she was pregnant, the word "mom" didn't sound so far off. 
"I don't think anyone should have an abortion because the baby would be an inconve­nience. I'm an adult and I'm able to take care of a kid. It's a conse­quence of having sex," she said. 
This consequence has taken her body on a roller coaster ride. Suffering morning sickness for the first few months and back­aches since day one, Jones promises that this is the last time she'll be pregnant. 
"Pregnancy is not fun and it's a lot on your body. r have so much respect for women who do it over and over again. My body isn't mine," she said. 
Future possibilities 
Upon her graduation in December, Jones plans a life in the theatre. After the baby is born, she'd like to live and work in Chicago. The possibility of graduate school doesn't lie far off. either. She was offered a position in the Detroit troupe of Second City, but Chicago seems like a bette·r fit for her because of its proximity to home and family. 
"My attitude has changed. I think a baby can fit into my lifestyle. It is an addition to what I'm going to be," she said with an air of possibility. ·"It is just a little detour." 
When Feb. 11 rolls around. Jones will welcome baby Christopher Jalen or Raivyn Elizabeth with a sigh of relief. 
"I don't worry about giving birth, but I really worry about the pain. I'll be using all the drugs that can supply ror me. I don't do pain well!" she said. 
And even though this baby will be her first -and presumably her last -she said everyday will be a learning experience. 
'Tm totally excited and accept· ing, but I keep saying that it's my first time and the kid ·s first time and we're both gonna screw up," she said. "There will be rules and I expect those rules to be followed, but I'll be a fun mom, a loving mom." · 
Contact Maureen Smithe at msmithe@nd.edu. 
Aperfect meeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday Drring 
ND. Home Football Weekends. 
Everyone Welcome 

60" Screen TV's Fully Enclosed Tent 

eaa259-iooo for more details next to the N.D. Bookstore. 
Friday, November 16, 2001 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
AFGHANISTAN first year I've gone in late to games-seeing everyone even
Spirit 

underclassmen coming in late is kind of unusual -which I've
continued from page 1

Abandoned terror lab found 
never seen before." 
Associated Press 
KABUL 
Materials left behind in a compound used by Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network ­incl~ding a booklet offering ad vice on how to survive a nuclear explosion -suggest the terrorist group may have been trying to develop chemical arms and other unconventional weapons. 
Foul-smelling liquids and charred papers covered with chemical formulas littered a makeshift laboratory in one al­Qaida building in the heart of Kabul. Maps, mines and com­puter manuals were found in others. 
Homeland Security Director Tom Hidge said Thursday that the documents are consistent with bin Laden's statements saying he desired nuclear weaponry. 
But papers found detailing how to make a nuclear device were "taken off the Internet some years ago" and could've been widely available to people other than the al-Qaida terror­ists. he said. 
U.S. officials have said that they had no information to sug­gest bin Laden has succeeded in gaining nuclear weapons. 
But "we have to be prepared for all eventualities including a nuclear threat," Ridge said. 
The Kabul compound appeared to have taken a direct hit from what northern alliance soldiers said was a 
U.S. rocket. 
The Times of London news­paper reported Thursday that designs for nuclear weapons, bombs and missiles -written in Arabic, German. Urdu and English -were among the debris left behind. 
"There are descripti'ons of how the detonation of TNT compresses plutonium into a critical mass. sparking a chain reaction, and ultimately a ther­mon uclear reaction," The Times said. 
Room after room was filled with papers, formulas and maps, some partially burned, some with handwritten Arabic notations. There was a yel­lowed page from an old issue of Plane and Pilot magazine. -a story titled "A Flight to Remember." 
At the rear of the main house, one room contained mountains of papers, some from training manuals showing diagrams of weapons. An English-language book described how to use a recoil­less rifle. Small, anti-personnel mines littered the floor of another room. · 
An alliance soldier in camou­flage dress, Mohammed Nisar, walked through three houses pointing out pieces of paper with formulas, handwritten diagrams, pictures of rockets and other weaponry. In the basement of one house was what looked to be a laboratory. 
In another house where the al-Qaida men resided, accord­ing to Nisar, four different types of land mines were found. Northern alliance troops had emptied two old railway cars parked in the yard that its sol­diers said had been packed with arms and ammunition. 
"Look, you can see the land mines," Nisar said. moving to pick one up. "It's safe now; we have disarmed it." 
Deep beneath the house were what seemed to be bunkers with a roof of fresh cement. I~ one were parts of weapons. with the barrels of anti-aircraft weapons propped up in the corner. 
In the yard and in the rooms were more papers and dia­grams -some in Arabic, some in Persian. some in Urdu ­and maps with large circles to mark locations. 
Earlier this year, The Associated Press acquired an 11-volume Encyclopedia of Holy War, written in Arabic and dedicated to bin Laden and the Taliban. 
Another sprawling al-Qaida compound, built on a former Scud missile base in the hills that surround Kabul's Darulaman Palace. apparently served as training grounds. 
"We found lots of books and papers and newspapers." said Haji Abdullah, a northern alliance commander. "We threw most of them out." 
A laminated certificate retrieved from the rubble iden­tified the holder as a "military training instructor," alliance soldier Jan Aga said. 
The northern alliance, which now controls the abandon·ed base. had one Pakistani in cus­tody, Naimad Ullah. Just 17, Ullah could ·only speak Urdu. He looked terrified. 
"I am afraid to say anything, they will take my head· off," he said in Urdu. The northern alliance soldiers said they had kept him safe for three days and had captured him on the front lines north of Kabul. 
Ullah said he was a student at a madrassa, or religious school, in Pakistan and had come to fight with the Taliban during his school holidays. His captors promised to keep him safe. 
upcoming football game," he said. "A lot of people [sold] their tickets to the Tennessee game and a lot of people didn't go. [There's] no faith anymore." 
Jim Creagan. a chemistry and government off-campus senior just doesn't seem to care any~ more. 
"The team sucks so I don't care. I used to hope they were going to win a national champi­onship before I graduated," he said. 
The team's losses have gradu­ally left students with little hope for future wins and some dis­gruntled fans tend to blame head coach, Bob Davie. 
''The central premise is that it has obviously been a discourag­ing year," said Cappy Gagnon, coordinator of stadium person­elle since 1996. "It think it's harmful to school spirit, but if you talk to those people [who scream anti-Bob Davie chants], nobody says they're now anti­Notre Dame. It's that they're frustrated we're not winning." 
Some students target their frustration at Davie, but others are quieter about their dissatis­faction. 
"The games aren't as enjoy­able as it was last year. The crowds aren't as into it and they just haven't been great games," said Dosal. 
But Freshman Emily Loomis does not seem to be disappoint­ed with her first football season. 
"It's exactly what I expected. There's a lot of pride in being a student at Notre Dame and you can see it in all the cheers -in all the participation," she said. 
Although many students still feel the school spirit, some stu­dents opt to stay tailgating or just wake up a bit later on Saturday morning. 
"I go to the games and show up· five minutes late when I 

Although Dosal gets to the stadium early and stays throughout the game. he knows a lot of people who have been getting there late as well. 
Gagnon says that decreased football attendance relates more to the closeness of the game and the weather than to school spir­it. 
"When the games are excit­ing, nobody leaves," he said. 
According to Gagnon, the ush­ers don't see more early depar­tures from the game this year than any other year. 
Rex Rakow, director of securi­ty and police, adds that this sca­s·on is no different from any other. 
"I don't see people moping around," Rakow said. "There are no more students staying in the dorm than we've had in the past." 
Although apparel sales can also be an indicator of a sway in school spirit, the Hammes Bookstore has not seen a decrease in sales of football apparel this year either. 
"We've sold more this year than last year at this time ­that's what I've been told," said Tammy Green, apparel manag­er. She says that a possible slide in students' excitement has not necessarily been reflected at the store. 
"We're doing well and people are pretty excited about the game." 
University officials might not sense the change in spirit, but students might see the season a bit differently. 
"The students probably have a better vantage point than the administration," said Roberts. "[Students] are the ones with the spirit and if they say it's declining, it's declining." 
Roberts was excited with foot­ball his freshman year after the 
2002-2003 RESIDENT ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS 
will be available in the Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building beginning Monday, November 19, 2001 through Friday, January 18, 2002 
Applications will also be available for downloading and printing at 
http ://w.ww. nd. edu/ ~stdntaff/RAinf o .html 
never used to be late before [this season]," said Creagan. "And we don't cheer as much as we used to when we were fresh­men." 
Roberts has noticed most friends arriving late while oth­ers leave early as well. 
"I've seen more [students] entering really late than leaving early. But a lot of my friends leave third quarter where I didn't see that when we were younger," he said. ''This is the win over Michigan before the crowds rushed onto the field. "I've never seen the school spir­it as it's been at that point," he said. "[But] if we go to a major bowl next year, it'll be major excitement. It's obviously not a permanent thing where Notre Dame's spirit has declined." 

Contact Maribel Morey at morey.l@nd.edu. 



Friday, November 16, 2001 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

our ro.v 
our J, ves w, IJ not -or; off 
Friday, November 16, 2001 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Aid workers lifted to freedom 
Associated Press 
ISI.AMAHAD, Pakistan 
U.S. spt\c·ial forn's lwlicoptPrs swoop11d into an Afghan fipld Thursdav and airliffod to safotv <'ight r;)rPign aid \\IOl'knrs, including two Americans. who wnrn fr11nd from a squalid prison during an anti-Taliban uprising. 
Tlw aid workPrs. who also int·ludnl two ,\ustralians and four (;l'rmans. landPd at Chaklala air bas(\ on tlH~ out­skirts of' tlw Pakistani capital of Islamabad. All appc-an~d in good lwalth al'tPr thrnP months in cap­tivity -tlw last t\·vo hours of which thoy spPnl in a lt>tid jail in Chazni. about :iO mil<~s south of Kabul. 
"It's Ii kP a mi raclP," Coorg Taubmann. one of the frond (iPrrnans, said upon his arrival a t tlw (it1r ni;t n Em bass v i11 lslnmabad. · 
Tlw aid workPrs f'or Sheltnr NO\V lnt<'rnational. a German­based group, had lwnn accusPd by thP Taliban of proaching Christianity. a sPrious offPnsP u1Hlcr th<) Taliban's harsh Islamic rulP. 
As tlw Taliban \.V<'rn lleoing tlw Afghan capital Kabul Parly Ttwsday. tlw eight thought thoy wPre about to lw f'r<'Pd. lnst<•ad. thP Taliban put them in a vPhiclP and bPgan driving tht•m south. 
Tlw Taliban "put us all into a stPl'I (shipping) contairwr," Taubmann rneountnd. "It was tPrribly cold. Th<~y wantPd to lock tlw contailwr and loavP us in tlwrP until tlw morning. \,Ve had no hlankt~ls. \V<• W<'rn frpnz­ing th1\ wholP night through." 
On Tiwsday morning. tlw six \\'OTllPll and two mPn wPrP n•mm·1·d and plcu·pd in tlw jail in Chazni. 
They soon h!'ard bombing by 

After three harrowing months -freedom 
Eight Western aid workers were freed Thursday by  German-based group, had been accused by the  
anti-Taliban forces and then helicoptered out of  Taliban of preaching Christianity, a serious offense  
Afghanistan to Pakistan by U.S. special forces. The  under Taliban Islamic rule. Two Americans, two  
workers, members of Shelter Now International, a  Australians and four Germans made up the group.  

American aid worker Heather Mercer hugs her father after her release. 


SOURCE-Associated Press 
American war planes. An hour later, an uprising against the Taliban began. Shortly after­ward, bnarded gunmen "broke into tho prison. They just opnn•I tlw doors, and we actually were afraid the Taliban were coming and taking us to Kandahar. \Ve \Vere really scared." he said. 
But the men shouted "Freedom!" and let the aid work­ers out. onto tlrn streets or Chazni, where Taubmann said they were treated like conquer­ing lwroes. 
"\,Ye walked into the city, and thn people came out of the hems­es and they hugged us and they greeted us. They were all clap­ping," he said. "They didn't know thPn' were foreigners in tho prison·." 
"It was likP a big celebration for all those p11ople," Taubmann said. 
Thn soldiPrs provid(~d protoc-

Announcing ANewATM... 
Coming Soon To Decio/MallovHalli 
Notre Dame Federal Credit ·union currently has eight ATMs on campus -soon to be nine. 
All with no-surcharge! 
Main Building Reckers Joyce Center North Dining Hall 
~· 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You con bank on us 
to be better
G:J: 
219/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
fQUl iNOt1tUlC 

LENDER Independent of the University 
tion for the aid vvorkers until three U.S. special forces heli­copters picked them up in a lit~ld near Ghazni in thf~ pre-dawn hours of Thursday. 
Taubmann said the women burned their burqas -the all­encompassing robes the Taliban requires fomales to wear -so that American helicopter could find them in the darkness. 
"It was very dramatic right until the end," he said. 
In addition to Taubmann, the other aid workers arc: Americans Ileather Mercer and Dayna Curry; three Germans, \1argrit Stc\bnar, Kati Jelinek and Silke Duerrkopf; and Australians Diana Thomas and Peter Bunch. 
Also, 16 Afghan mnployees of Slrnlter Now Int•~rnational. who were detained along with the fornigners, were freed when the northern allianc!~ forces entered 

Grace Hall Hammes Bookstore Main Office ­Douglas Road (2) 
AP 
Kabul on Tuesday, said U.N. otli­
cials in Islamabad. 
Tildrm Curry was standing in line at a church supper Wednesday when he heard his daughter was free. Dayna Curry called her father later and they spoke for about 15 minutes. 
"It was overwhelming to hear her voice," he told Nashville tele­vision station WSMV. 
Heather Mercer's mother, Deborah Oddy. said she spoke with her daughter for 45 min­utes by telephone Thursday. Oddy said her daughter seemed to be in good health and spirits. 
"There were good days and there were bad days. Overall. she was treated very well," Oddy said on CNN's "Larry King Live." 
Sue Fuller, Dayna Curry's step­mother, said the familv never· lost faith that she woulcf survive her ordeal. 
"Every time we heard from her. she let us know that she would get out safely," she told Larry King. 
President Bush hailed tho dra­matic turn of events, and said he spoke Thursday morning with the two Americans -both natives of central Texas. 
"They both said to say thanks to everybody for their prayers." Bush said at Crawford High School, rwar his Texas ranch. "They realizml there is a good and gracious God. Tlwir spirits 
were  high  and  they  love  
America."  
Bush  had  rejccwd several  

attempts by the Taliban to use the aid workers as bargainirig chips. 
The Taliban had agreed to turn over the aid workers through the International Committee of the Hed Cross, two senior administration officials said. The Red Crot,s was going to get them into the hands of U.S. troops. But bflforn the exchange could be accomplished. the anti-

Taliban northern alliance over­
ran Ghazni. 

The Red Cross said in Geneva 
that a local military commander 
contacted the ICHC, saying he 
had rescued the eight foreigners 
and wanted help transporting 
them out of Afghanistan. 

The aid organization said it 
relayed messages between the 
commander and the U.S., 
Australian and German govern­
m{mts. but said it was unable to 
say which ethnic or military 
group the commander belonged 
to. 
Bush said only that the Red 
Cross and other "people on the 
ground facilitated" U.S. troops' 
ability to rescue the aid workers. 
Th1:~ president said he had bflen worried that the Taliban might put the aid workers in a house that might be bombed accidentally, and said the U.S. military had been ,vorking on plans for a secret rescue if need­t~d. Ile did not elaborate. 
The co-director of' Shelter Now International. Joachim Jager, said in Germany that the flight aid workiffs planned to take two or three weeks to recover from their ordeal at a place Im did not nanrn. 
In Australia, Joseph Thomas, brother of aid worker Diana Thomas, said Thursday his prayPrs had been answernd. I le also gave credit to the Taliban for their humane treatnwnt of the aid workers. 
"If you look at the facts. sinn~ they've bt~en captive, they've betm looked after and thPy've been given everything that tlwy have wanted," Thomas told a Sydm~y radio station. 
Taliban Supreme Court judg<•s had indefinitely postponed the aid workers' trial since tlwy wPn~ rhargt~d Aug. 3. The judgPs said tlwy t,,ared tlwir angPr ovPr 
U.S. airstrikes could hamper tlwir ability to make a fair ruling. 
THE NOTRE DAME DFPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
THE NOTRE DAME BRASS ENSEMBLE 

SUNDAY. NOVEMBER 18. 2001 8 PM BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART ADMISSION IS FREE 

L_ 


page 10 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 16, 2001 
Labor department writes anthrax guide 
Businesses that receive mail
Associaced Pres~ 
from facilities that arc known to be contaminated fall into the
\VASIIINGTON 

yellow zone. GuidelinesThP Labor Department is 
include limiting the number of
issuing guideli1ws to help 

people working near mail
employers and workers deal 

anrns. Impermeable gloves,
with possible anthrax expo­

such as nitrile or vinyl, are
sure and to assess risks of con­

recommended. Also, properly
tracting the disease. 

fitting, filtering face masks
"Most employers and 

that are level N95 or greater
employees face little or no risk 
of exposure 
to anthrax 

and need "We are providing 
only mini­needed guidance, not 
mal pre­

creating new require­
cautions," said Labor ments. The world has 
Secretary changed since Sept. 1 1. 
Elaine 

Threats to our national
Chao. "But some may security now can clearly 
have to involve the work place . ., 
deal with potential or 

Elaine Chao
k now n exposures, Labor Secretary 
and we want to make sure they have all possi­ble information available to protect Americans at their workplace." 
The Occupational Safety and Health Administration guide­lines being released Friday establish risk zones and guide­lines to deal with the potential for exposure. Four people have died of anthrax exposure. 
All businesses should avoid opening suspiGious mail and wash hands after handling all mail. 
can be worn. Hespirators with P-type filters also shou Id be considered. 
A work site is in the red zone if law enforcement or public health offi­cials have notified of possible cont­amination. The level of protfiction 

depends on the risk. Employees can consider wear­ing tight-fitting, full-face Powered Air-Purifying Respirators and skin protec­tion suits with hoods and booties. 
"\Ve arc providing needed guidance, not creating new n~quirements," Chao said. "The world has changed since Sept. 11. Threats to our national security now can clearly involve the work placn." 
Bishops approve military force 
Associated Press 
WASI IINGTON 
The nation's Roman Catholic 
bishops overwhelmingly support­
ed the United States' right to use 
military force against interna­
tional terrorism Thursday. 
I lowever, the bishops said the response must be part of a broader foreign policy that allevi­ates poverty, stops human rights abuses and helps to end violence. 
"Without in any way excusing indefensible terrorist acts, we still need to address those condi­tions of poverty and injustice which are exploited by terror­ists," the United States Conference of Catholic Bis!10ps said in the proclamation. 
The statement was approved on the final day of this week's gathering in which the bishops elected their first black presi­dent, Wilton Gregory of Belleville, Ill.• and updated their anti-abortion plan to highlight opposition to human embryo research., euthanasia and the death penalty. 
The conferenee also expressed concern for the plight of Africans and welcomed th(~ growing num­ber of Asian immigrants in the church. 
The war statement attempted to reflect the range of views among the bishops, from paci­fists who see no justification for the war, to clergy who hoped for a stronger statement of support for the Bush administration. 
The bishops urged world lead­ers to lift economic sanctions against Iraq and help end the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, while 
more equitably sprnading tlw 
benefits ofglobalization. 
"It offers a moral framework, not a long series of specific judg­ments," said Cardinal Bernard Law of' Boston, who led the com­mittee that wrote tlw document. "It lifts up key challenges but it does not seek to answer all the questions." 
The group voted 16 7 -4 in sup­port of the document. 
Auxiliary Bishop Thomas Gumbleton of Detroit vvas among the few who opposed the procla­mation, arguing it violated Christ's teachings to love your enemies. Ile questioned whether the airstrikes against Afghanistan were truly just. 
"We are in a war situation where our own government tells us that there's not going to be peace at the end of this. \Ve have to be preparod for other attacks," Gumbleton said. "\Vhat kind of wisdom is it to carrv out ­a war when we know the·only outcome is going to be further war'?" 
Bishop Joseph Fiorenza of Galveston-liouston, Texas, who just finished his three-year term as president, argued the docu­ment was balanced. 
"These terrorist threats cannot go unanswered. We have a right to self-defense," Fiorenza said. "But we wanted to be pastoral in understanding hcartbrnak. grief and pain. Our desire is to bring a great sense of hope to those who have suffered." 
Another religious statement on the war Thursday, from a National Council of Churches assembly in Oakland, Calif., did 
not specifically PIHlorsP or con­
demn Anrnrica's military cam­

paign. Thn council includes '.H> 
Protestant and Orthodox denom­
inations. 

Tim council called for '"an Parly 
end" to U.S. bombing an~I 
international collaboration on 

"nonviolent nrnans" to bring 
world terrorists to justice. It also 
urged long-term American com­
mitnrnnt to economic drwclop­
mcnt and peace in Afghanistan. 
On \Nedncsday, the confcrnncc · approved a docum()nt called 
"Campaign in Support of' Lifo," 
which urgPd Catholics to contin­
ue to lobby public officials and 
the general public to support the 
church's positions. 
The bishops said they were 
encouragf~d by a decline in abor­
tions and new state laws that 
restrict the procedure. But they 
noted their failure to reverse the 
Suprenw Court's 1973 Hoc v. 
Wade decision that legalized 
abortion. 
Diversity was a focus or much 
of the meeting. Grngory said he 
hoped his election sent a nws­
sagP that tlw church f~mbraccs 
those from all ethnic back­
grounds. Thn 63.7 million-mem­
ber denomination is prndomi­
nantly white. but is gnnving 
increasingly mixed as more 
Hispanics and Asians conw to 
this country. 
ThP bishops sµncif'ically 
acknowledged Asian Catholics at 
the nwPting, approving a procla­
mation that asks parishionPrs to 
be morn attnntivn to the immi­
grants' spiritual 1wPCls. Asians 
comprise about 2.<> pcrcnnt of' 
U.S. Catholics. 

Anew ~ame ~Ian for loatoall weeKen~s from tne ~olle~e olArts an~ letters ''Moral Education cl, . • at the . . Crossroads'' with F. Clark Power professor of psychology and chair of the Program of Liberal Studies 11 a.m. -Hesburgh Center Auditorium Join us next fall for the 2002 Saturday Scholar Series 3 1/2 hours before game time every home football weekend  

Friday, November 16, 2001 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page l I 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nouc Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR Noreen Gillespie  BUSINESS MANAGER Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR Kerry Smich  OPERATIONS MANAGER Pac Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadcer SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX........... ..................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4 542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEW1'01NT.................................................63 l-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................., ..............................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.ndedu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as carroons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 

weather for up-10-the  movies/music for  
minute forecasts  weekly student reviews  
advertise for policies  online features for spe­ 
and rates of print ads  cial campus coverage  
archives co search for  about The Observer  
articles published after  to meet the editors and  
Augusr 1999  staff  

POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents of che University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present che views of the authors and noc necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor muse be signed and muse include contact information. , 
Questions regarding Oburver policieJ should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Co111101iy. 



The white bag repled, "Have you ever been to a game with national champi­onship consequences riding on the out­come? The intensity was immense. the play spectacular and the drama draining. They are classics. You will not play that type of game until you demand excellence in yourself, everyone you coach and everyone you hire. It is that simple." 
"So I should call my program, 'Who wants to be a National Champion?' and get a final answer from everyone?" 
The white bag answered, "Don't forget to be creative. I think you've benched a Heismann candidate in favor of running the option. But I am only a spectator and will not second guess you." 
At this point I approached the two bag­headed men and interrupted. "I hap­pened to hear Notre Dame mentioned," I said, "and just wanted to show you my Notre Dame ring." 
Then turning to me, both said in uni­son, "Nice ring." 
"Did you attend Notre Dame?" I asked. 
"Nah, we were crying about the Yankees," said the white bag. "They would have won if they demanded excel­lence." 
I turned away thinking of how the Yankees barely reached game seven of the World Series, and only because they had demanded excdlence. Could I cxpc~ct excellence from Notre Dame football in the future or more conversations f'rom beneath a paper bag'? I guess it depends upon whose contract gets better ratings at the end of this month. 
Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame '73, served in President Clinton ·s administration as a Congressional and public affairs director. I/is column appears every other Friday. He can be reached at Hottline@aol.com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Rarely does this column delve into foot­ball, especially Fighting Irish football. However, while in New York City last weekend, I had the most unusual encounter. 
After viewing a Broadway play, our party ventured to the restaurant Iguana. On any given day, celebri­ties like Al Pacino dine with patrons on sandwiches liter­ally stacked with three inches of meats and cheeses. Last Saturday was no exception for us as I sat next to Joy Philbin and two men who were wearing paper bags on their heads. 

I guessed that Regis and his television producer, "Gelman," were under the bags while poor Joy sat alone and exposed to the world. I tried to identify the two as I sat quietly listening to their conversation. 
"You know, Hegis, I would like to be frank with you. May I?" asked the brown bag. 
"Sure coach, if you let me," replied the white bag. 
"It's a deal. First, Heege, you really bug me when you mention your alma matter on your show. Those of us·afliliated with the team appreciate it, but you sound like those Darners I run into every day who can quote statistics relating to every facet of Notre Dame football. I know one who calls students randomly on campus just to hear rumors and gather information. He can tell you the average number of yards per running play ND had in every game back to the Knute Rockne era." 
The white bag shouted, "If Gelman could only hear this! He wants more Notre Dame stuff ... says it is wholesome and entertaining. I keep telling him the team has to win for me to convert chatter into ratings." 

"We're trying," the brown bag said. "Well, try harder. And you think you have it bad? I run into Darners who not 
only can recite insignificant statistics, but who beat my ear as though they were auditioning to become television announcers. If I hear, 'he-could-go-all­the-way' one more time!" 
The brown bag shot back, "Think that's bad? Try dealing with people who never pay their share of meals, transportation or ticket prices." 
"What are you complaining about? You don't have millions of dollars in sponsor­ships riding on your performance. You play a pretty good season, then get blown away iil a bowl game, but still get a five­year contract extension." 
The brown bag shot back, "What are you talking about? Notre Dame is an icon in college football. But with that honor comes a higher standard from which the Irish must operate. It may seem unfortu­nate, but it's true. We don't get the best players because we must recruit players with higher academic standards." 
"ls that your final answer?" asked the white bag. "If so, it is pretty weak. My programs are successful because I work long and hard and prepare extensively for each aspect of my quest for my goals." 
"So are you saying I am doing less?" 
"No. I am saying that the best coaches are those who revise their programs around great players instead of trying to mold the player into a set program. Do you know why your team has more fum­bles this year than last year?" 
"Why is that, Mr. Statistician?" asked the brown bag. 
"Different quarterback. Last year's wiz­ard is this year's goat. He is riding the bench and your fumbles have increased on the field along with your number of losses." 
"So Mr. Television Personality, what makes you an expert over everyone else?" 

Students, do you have a professor this semester that deserves recognition? If you do, tell The Observer why your professor deserves to be Professor of the Semester. Send and e-mail with the professor's name, class they teach, time of class and a short description of why they deserve to be Professor of the Semester to scene@nd.edu. The Observer employees are not eligible to submit nominations. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Scott Amanda Greco Brodfuehrer Graphics Sheila Egts Andy Devoto Joe Ackerman Production 
Sports Noah Amstadter Matt Lozar Lab Tech Viewpoint Amanda Hughes 
Pat Kelly 
POLL RESULTS 

. Is the economy causing you to reconsider your post-graduation plans? 181 Total votes 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The sage never strives himselffor the great, and thereby the great is achieved." 
Lao-tzu Chinese philosopher 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, November 16, 2001 page 13 
A fitting time for a 'War Prayer' 
It was a time of great and exalting excitement. The country was up in arms, the war was on, in every breast burned the holy fire of patriotism; the drums were beating, the bands playing, the toy pistols popping, the bunched firecrackers hissing and spluttering; on every hand and far down the receding and fading spread of roofs and balconies a fluttering wilderness of flags flashed in the sun; daily the young volunteers marched down the wide avenue gay and fine in their new uniforms, the proud fathers and mothers 
. and sisters and sweethearts cheering them with voices choked with happy emo­tion as they swung by; nightly the packed mass meetings listened, panting, to patri­ot oratory which stirred the deepest deeps of their hearts, and which they interrupted at briefest intervals with cyclones of applause, the tears running down their cheeks the while; in the churches the pastors preached devotion · to nag and country, and invoked the God of Battles beseeching His aid in our good cause in outpourings of fervid eloquence which moved every listener. It was indeed a glad and gracious time, and the half dozen rash spirits that ven­tured to disapprove of the war and cast a doubt upon its righteousness straightway got such a stern and angry warning that for their personal safety's sake they quickly shrank out of sight and offended no more in that way. Sunday morning came -the day the battalions would leave for the front; the church was filled; the volunteers were there, their young faces alight with mar­tial dreams -visions of the stern advance, the gathering momentum, the rushing charge, the flashing sabers, the night of the foe, the tumult, the envelop­ing smoke, the fierce pursuit, the surren­der! Then home from the war, bronzed heroes, welcomed, adored, submerged in golden seas of glory! With the volunteers sat their dear ones, proud, happy and envied by the neighbors and friends who had no sons and brothers to send forth to the field of honor, there to win for the flag, or failing, die the noblest of noble deaths. The service proceeded; a war chapter from the Old Testament was read; the first prayer was said; it was followed by an organ burst that shook the building. 
and with one impulse the house rose, with glowing eyes and beating hearts, and poured out that tremendous invoca­tion, "God the all-terrible! Thou who ordainest! Thunder they clarion and light­ning thy sword!" 
Then came the "long" prayer. None could remember the like of it for passion­ate pleading and moving and beautiful language. The burden of its supplication was, that an ever-merciful and benignant Father of us all would watch over our noble young soldiers and aid, comfort, and encourage them in their patriotic work; bless them, shield them in the day of battle and the hour of peril, bear them in His ~"' mighty hand. make them "I_. strong and confident, -:a~ ~ invincible in the ....-_ bloody onset; help * '.II ~ them to crush the fl' " a .. f foe. grant to them -• • 
and to their flag and country imperishable honor and glory. 

An aged stranger entered and moved with slow and noiseless step up the main aisle. his eyes fixed upon the minister, his long body clothed in a robe that reached to his feet, his head bare, his white hair descending in a frothy cataract to his shoulders, his seamy face unnaturally pale, pale even to ghastliness. With all eyes following him and wondering, he made his silent way; without pausing, he ascended to the preacher's side and stood there waiting. With shut lids the preach­er, unconscious of his presence, contin­ued with his moving prayer, and at last finished it with the words, uttered in fer­vent appeal, "Bless our arms, grant us the victory, 0 Lord our God, Father and Protector of our land and flag!" 
The stranger touched his arm. motioned him to step aside -which the startled minister did -and took his place. 
During some moments he surveyed the spellbound audience with solemn eyes, in which burned an uncanny light: then in a 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Respect for Navy 
An informal tradition of the student body at home football games is to boo the opposing team as they come out onto the field. Although this helps to create a hostile environment for visiting teams. there are certain situations in which such behavior is inap­propriate. 
In six months, many of the members of the Navy football team will begin training to take an active role in defending our great nation. Navy football players choose to attend the Naval Academy knowing that upon graduation they will have to spend at least five years of their lives in active duty service. These are not the same type of ath­letes who attend Tennessee or Nebraska; these are young men of character and devotion to a noble cause. 
For the sake of those currently engaged in conflict overseas, and for those who will soon join them, please show the utmost respect for all Navy players and fans who visit our campus this weekend. This is the least we can do given what their predecessors have sacri­ficed for us, and what these players will be asked to do in the future. 
Michael F. Diamond sophomore Philip A. Tribble junior O'Neill Hall Nov. 15, 2001 
deep voice he said: 
"I come from the Throne -bearing a message from Almighty God!" The words smote the house with a shock; if the stranger perceived it he gave no atten­tion. 
"He has heard the prayer of His servant your shepherd, and will grant it if such shall be your desire after I, His messen­ger, shall have explained to you its import -that is to say, its full import. For it is like unto mapy of the prayers of men, in that it asks for more than he who utters it 
is aware of-except he pause and think. 
"God's servant and yours has prayed his prayer. Has he paused and 
taken thought? Is it one prayer? No, it is two-one uttered, the other not. Both 
have reached the ear of Him Who, heareth all sup­plications, the spoken and the unspoken. 
Ponder this ­keep it in mind. If you would beseech a blessing upon yourself, beware! Lest without intent you invoke a curse upon a neighbor at the same time. If you pray for the blessing of 
rain upon your crop which needs it, by that act you are possibly praying for a curse upon some neighbor's crop which may not need rain and can be injured by it." 
"You have heard your servant's prayer -the uttered part of it. I am commis­sioned of God to put into words the other part of it -that part which the pastor ­and also you in your hearts -fervently prayed silently. And ignorantly and unthinkingly?" 
"God grant that it wa$ so! You heard these words: 'Grant us the victory, 0 Lord our God!' That is sufficient. The 'whole' of the uttered prayer is compact into those pregnant words. Elaborations 
· were not necessary. When you have prayed for victory you have prayed for many unmentioned results which follow victory -must follow it, cannot help but follow it. Upon the listening spirit of God fell also the unspoken part of the prayer. He commandeth me to put it into words. Listen!" 
"O Lord our Father, our young patriots, idols of our hearts, go forth to battle -be Thou near them! With them -in spirit -we also go forth from the sweet peace of our beloved firesides to smite the foe. 0 Lord our God, help us to tear their sol­diers to bloody shreds with our shells; help us to cover their smiling fields with the pale forms of their patriot dead; help us to drown the thunder of the guns with the shrieks of their wounded, writhing in pain; help us to lay waste their humble homes with a hurricane of fire; help us to wring the hearts of their unoffending wid­ows with unavailing grief; help us to turn them out roofless with little children to . wander unfriended the wastes of their desolated land in rags and hunger and thirst, sports of the sun flames of summer and the icy winds of winter. broken in spirit, worn with travail, imploring Thee for the refuge of the grave and denied it --for our sakes who adore Thee, Lord, blast their hopes, blight their lives, pro­tract their bitter pilgrimage, make heavy their steps. water their way with their tears, stain the white snow with the blood of their wounded feet!" 
We ask it, in the spirit of love. of Him Who is the Source of Love, and Who is the ever-faithful refuge and friend of all that are sore beset and seek His aid with hum­ble and contrite hearts. 
Amen. 
[After a pause.] "Ye have prayed it; if ye still desire it, speak! The messenger of the Most High waits!" 
It was believed afterward that the man was a lunatic because there was no sense in what he said. 
The War Prayer was written by Mark Twain and was delivered orally by the author between 1904-1905. 
It was sent to The Observer by Catherine Eichers. a member ofthe Peace Coalition. who thought it would be a fit­ting end to this week ofwar and peace education. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Evaluating arguments 
Over the past week there have been a number 
of articles printed in The Observer discussing the 
topic ofsexual relationships. This is a topic that 
has displayed many different opinions of the stu• 
dent body. I have to say that some have had great 
arguments to be considered while others, in my 
opinion have been poorly prepared. 
The matter ofsexual relationships is an impor­
tant one that should, in my opinion, be discussed 
as it has been. However, I believe that the authors 
of the past articles have been taking the wrong 
approach to explain their views on the topic of 
sexual relationships. The first article in this series 
of articles was written in response to the state­
ment saying, "Notre Dame is in trouble." Just in 
case it is not obvious, the University of Notre 
•Dame is a Catholic institution. This University is called to instill an education not only in the class• room, but also through a moral aspect. I find it slightly odd that a student would attend a Catholic university if that person does not follow the beliefs of the church. 
I realize that there are many students that believe premarital sex is not wrong, while others believe it is wrong. In my opinion, this should not even be an issue. Any student who attends a uni: versity is not only asked, but also expected to fol­low the rules of that institution. Arguing whether premarital sex is right or wrong is a valid argu­ment, however not when it is dealing with Notre Dame's value code. It seems ridiculous to me that a person can say Notre Dame is having problems due to the lack of sexual activity present on the campus. Most Catholic institutions have a system ofvalues that say premarital sex is wrong. Why would anyone be a part of an institution if they do not agree with the values the organization stands for? I find it somewhat disturbing that a person would publicly state their ignorance of these val­ues in the University newspaper. 
I do not feel that it is important for me to go into my beliefs on premarital sex. I feel that enough opinions have been addressed on that topic. It just seems important that a person knows what he or she is arguing and has a significant amount of information to back it up. 
Mike Chandler 
sophomore Holy Cross College No\1.14,2001 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 14 Friday, November 16, 2001 
Revo I u tionizi1 
One ofseveral off-Broadway tour groups presents the South Bena 

The finale of the first act, "One Day More," has the entire cast gathered on stage, preparing for the next day. For some, the next day brings the Revolution, for others death, for ~II, great change. 

The play begins while Valjean (Randal . The Morris Performin Keith) is serving time for stealing a loaf of . Tonight at 7:30 p.m.,bread for his dying nephew. After laboring 
7:30 p.m. and Sun. 1 p.1
19 years on the chain gang, Valjean is released on parole, only to 'find that no one . Tickets range from $2 will look past the crime he committed $20 student rate availab 
nearly two decades previously. Finally, Valjean is able to find sanctuary with a for tickets. kind Bishop (Seth Bowling) who offers food and shelter. However grateful he may be, Valjean cannot resist the temptation to steal the Bishop's silver. When Valjean is caught by the police and taken -along with the stolen silver -to the Bishop's house, the Bishop lies for \ aljean. saying that the silver was a gift and that Valjean had forgotten the matching candle sticks. The Bishop's only request in return for his kindness is that Valjean reform to lead a life as God's child. 
This opening scene presents one of the stronger on­stage images of the production. \Vhen Valjean is searching for employment, he is moving through the streets of Digne, passing through crowds and from one employer to the next. These are the first revolutions of the turntable and are one of the most impressive and effective displays of motion presented on any stage. 
The next scene carrif's the audiencn eight Y('ars into thP future after Valjean has broken his parole to reinvent him­self as a good man with a new nanw. He has succPssfully become a mayor, factory owner and well-respected citi­zen. I lere we meet Fantine (Jayne Paterson), a woman 
By AMANDA GRECO Associate Scene Editor 

If you wiJl be going to see "Les Miserables" this week­end, be prepared to sacrifice a significant piece of your time. While the musical itself lasts slightly more than three hours, the powerful effect this performance leaves will continue to resonate long after the final bows. 
Calling "Les Miserables" the most famous show in the world is far from an overstatement. "Les Mis" debuted in London 16 years ago and is now in its 15th year on Broadway. Through the years. "Les Mis" has received 50 major awards internationally. including several Grammys and the 1987 Tony Award for Best Musical. 
But the show's merit extends far beyond the talented performers and exquisite sets that comprise its many per­formances. The story, characters, music and emotion transport the audience to revolution-era France where the audience is held entranced by the saga of a struggling nation and the story of one man -both fighting for their freedom. 
"Les Miserables" is based upon Victor Hugo's classic 1861 novel. Covering several decades in 19th century France, the story line follows the country's progression towards revolution and convict Jean Valjean's rise towards self-renewal. This stage production of "Les Mis" is more like an opera than a musical. Every line is sung, and while some may find this detracts from the comprehensi­bility of a show, it is precisely what the drama of this play requires. Actors maintain their characters with ease and portray vivid, affecting emotion without having to break out of rhythm. All too often in traditional musicals, the audience loses a sense of the character and his or her objectives when he or she breaks into random song. 
The production is masterfully staged with breathtaking visuals and an awe-inspiring set. The stage is comprised of a large turntable, measuring 34 feet in diameter and weighing approxi­mately 10,000 lbs . .The 63 revo­lutions this stage makes through the course of the show provide scene changes and great demon­strations of motion as charact(~rs move through bustling streets and labor districts, travel or rally their allies with cries for free­dom. Adding to the atmosphere of the French towns are five fog machines and 500 lbs. of dry ice. The 36 actors are decked in full, time~specific regalia thanks to the more than l ,000 costuming pieces and 45 wigs. The barri­cade built by the sho,,,v·s Hevolutionaries weighs in at an astonishing 12.250 lbs. 
\Vith every new venue this travelling show visits comes a new stage with new dimensions and limitations. It is unfath­omable, then, that assembly of 


O
THE BSERVER 


tre 
Friday, November 16, 2001 page 15 

ng Broadway 
1 debut of "Les Miserables" at the Morris Performing Arts Center 

The key songs throughout this section of 
~.m. and 7 p.m. 
the play have the ability to convey $21 to $59 with a immense emotion and an all-too-real insight into the lives and times of the char­
ilble. Call 234-4044 
acters. For the most part, the perfor­mances of these songs achieve their pur­poses. 
"At the End of the Day" is a ~ardonic ode to the passing of time and lack of hope for the unemployed and poorly compensat(1d workers who sing it. The banter of the pros­titutes who convince Fantine to join them in "Lovely Ladies" is a deprnssing look at the reality of the poverty that lowered these women to their profession and the actions of men that continue to hold them down. Injected with a bit of dark humor, the number is one of the show's livelier pieces, believe it or not. 
Fantine had an amazing opportunity to rally the audi­ence sympathetically for her cause with "I Dreamed a Dream." This solo is a reflection on the hopes for love and happiness that her youth held and their untimely demise. Patterson has a beautiful voice, but the emotion and fervor that should accompany this song are lacking. 
The opening scenes were plagued with a few technical difficulties, presumably originating from a lack of familiar­ity with the new venue. Several times. microphones did not cue up until the character had sung a word or two and, more frequently. spotlight beams jostled unsteadily 
-

across .the stage until they found their intended subject. 
It is not until the third scene that the true strength of Valjean -both the character and the actor who portrays him -becomes evident. Keith maintains a powerful pres­ence on-stage and has a voice unmatched in quality. Powerfully deep and commanding on such songs as "Soliloquy" and "Who am I," yet tender and moving on "Come to me" and "Bring him home" -sung mostly in an astounding falsetto. 
Other notable performances include the young Cosette (Skylar Harden) who innocently portrays an abused and neglected child. Her sweet solo "Castle on a Cloud" brings light and hope into the bitterness of the times. Eponine (Dina Lynne Morishita) offers an amazing performance, drawing all attention each time she is on the stage. Yet, much like Fantine, she fails to deliver ori her solo. "On My Own" is a heartbreaking song of unrequited love that requires an intensity that Morishita was only able to pro­vide at the very end of the song. The image of her alone on the stage, dressed as a boy, motionless with her hands in her pockets does not convey the fervor suited to this piece. 
A'i the men rally their forces to stage the Revolution, the sense of suspense builds until the audience is anxiously awaiting the final action. However, this scene is somewhat anti-climactic and a bit disappointing. The culmination of the men's efforts is expressed in a few flashes of light, blank shots and plumes of smoke. The actors do not move convincingly as they barely pause to reload their rifles, and each p<~rformer seems to merely be anticipating his cue to die. The scene does not do justice to the suspense, the intricacy of the barricade upon which they fall or the work and ideals of the characters who die fighting for their cause. 
Altogether, ..Les Miserables" still delivers an amazing show. After 16 years, the power of the story is not lost. And while it is certain that each actor has performed his or her part countless times, the cast is still able to convinc­ingly convey each character. The final scene in which Fantine's spirit comes to rall for Valjeail is perhaps the most heart-rending scene of all.' It is doubtful from the resounding sniflles that there was a dry eye in the audi­ence. 
"Les Miserables" stirs emotion and pulls the audience in as few shows can. It is for this reason that your mind will remain entrenched in the scenes for hours after the per­formance. A production that can affect people for days after attending is as rare as a show that can remain pow­erfully moving after years on the stage, which is as uncommon as a story whose message can still. ring true centuries after being penned. 
Contact Amanda Greco at amanda_k_greco@hotmail.com. 


Friday, November 16, 2001 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Heat come back, smoke way past Knicks 
but I won't say that." the Nuggets, who shot just 33 scored on a tip-in and an 18-12 rebounds and five blocked
Associated Press 

Kurt Thomas started at cen­percent compared to Orlando's foot jumper, and McGrady fol­shots for the Pistons, and rook­
NEW YORK ter for the second straight 46 percent. lowed with two more baskets. ie Zeljko Rebraca added a 
The severely undermanned game and had 13 points and Orlando turned a one-point career-high 16 points in a Miami Heat showed plenty of• 13 rebounds for New York, lead into a 7 4-58 advantage reserve role.
Lakers 98, Rockets 97

grit fighting back from a 16-while Clarence Weatherspoon with a 19-4 run in the third Michael Finley led the
Shaquille O'Neal scored 30

point deficit. What they didn't also started and scored 13. quarter. Mc Grady had three Mavericks with 19. He and
points and grabbed the final

receive was any respect, at The Knicks held Miami to 3-key baskets in the flurry, Nowitzki shot a combined 11­
rebound in overtime, leading

least in Pat Riley's opinion. for•18 shooting in the fourth including back-to•back for-32 for just 29 points, 17
Los Angeles to a victory over

Allan Houston scored 17 quarter. jumpers. under their per-game average.
the Houston Rockets, the

points, Latrell Sprewell added It looked like it would be an Magic coach Doc Rivers rest­
Lakers' seventh straight win.

16 and the New York Knicks easy night for the Knicks by ed McGrady at the start of the 
The Lakers blew a 15•point Trail Blazers 101, Grizzlies 

held the Heat to eight points in the midpoint of the second final period but never needed 
third-quarter lead, but held on

the fourth quarter for an 83-7 4 quarter as they took a 16-point him. 85
in overtime to stretch their 

Rasheed Wallace scored 27
victory. lead, 47-31, on a free throw by Denver cut the deficit to 11 record to 7-0, their best start 
points, and Derek Anderson
Miami shot just one free Haward Eisley. But Miami points early in the fourth quar­since the 1997-98 team opened
throw in the fourth quarter -closed the half by scoring 14 ter, but the Magic scored the scored seven of his 18 points in
11-0. 

90-second span in the fourth
after a defensive 3-second vio­unanswered points, including a next 10 points, including eight The NBA record for consecu­
quarter, leading the Portland
lation -and attempted only 3-pointer by Ellis just· before by Hill, to make it 86-65. Hill's tive victories to start the sea­
11 foul shots in the game. New the halftime buzzer. final basket gave Orlando its Trail Blazers to a victory over 
. son is 15, shared by the 1993

York shot 28 free throws. Marks began the second half biggest lead, 97-75, with 2:53 Memphis, the Grizzlies' fran­
Houston Rockets and the 1948

"It's absolutely an injustice, with an alley-oop dunk, and left. chise-record eighth straight
Washington Capitols.

an absolute injustice. I'm Jones hit a jumper to complete Darrell Armstrong and Pat loss to open the season.
The Rockets rallied to tie it

absolutely fed up with it, and an 18-0 run and give Miami a Garrity each had 12 points for The Grizzlies opened the 
at 87 at the end of regulation.

my players are fed up with it, 49-47 lead. The Heat stayed Orlando. 1996-97 season with seven
Houston never led in overtime,

frustrated by it," Riley said. ahead for the rest of the third Nick Van Exel scored 13 straight losses.
but still had a chance until

"We take the ball to the bas­quarter, leading by as many as points on 6-for-19 shooting, Bonzi Wells also scored 18
Kevin Willis lobbed up the final

ket, and we absolutely get six, and took a 66-63 lead into and Raef LaFrentz had 12 points for Portland. Ruben
shot. O'Neal grabbed it for his

killed at the free-throw line. the fourth. points on 5-for-13 shooting. Patterson added 15 points, and
13th rebound as time expired.

"I've had it. The players have "Guys got relaxed, and the Denver lost its ninth straight Dale Davis finished with 13
Kobe Bryant led the Lakers

had it, and it's an absolute next thing you know they were to Orlando. The Nuggets' last points and 11 rebounds.
with 31 points.

injustice. Say whatever you right back in the game and we win in the series was March Shane Battier had 30 points,
Steve Francis and Cuttino 

want about me whining and were back to fighting and 12, 1996. five assists and three blocked
Mobley, who missed the last

complaining, it's an absolute scratching," Sprewell said. Hill also had 11 rebounds shots for the Grizzlies. He shot 
game with a sprained left

injustice. And that's all I have Thomas scored six points as and four assists. 10-for-13 from the field and 7­
ankle, each scored 26 points

to say because we deserve a the Knicks opened the fourth Taking advantage of for-9 from the line.
for Houston. Francis also had

better shake at the officiating. quarter with a 10-4 run to Denver's 2-for-14 shooting to Lorenzen Wright added 12
12 rebounds and five assists.

The guys played hard and this regain the lead, and Houston open the game, the Magic points and 10 rebounds for
The Lakers held a comfort­

has gone on for eight games. I made it 77-7 4 with 2:05 left on jumped out to an early 16-5 Memphis.
able 60-45 lead with 7:42 left

tried to show some class; I'm a short turnaround jumper. lead. Bowen scored two quick Battier scored 16 points in
in the third quarter when the

showing none tonight." Jones shot an airball and baskets and eight points in the the first half as the Grizzlies
Rockets started their come­

The Heat learned early in the Ellis missed a 20-footer on last five minutes of the quarter and Trail Blazers entered the
back behind key shots by

day that they would be without Miami's next two possessions, as Denver reduced the deficit break tied at 44. Wallace had
Kenny Thomas and Willis, who 

starters Alonzo Mourning {food and Houston made a pair of to three. 15 first-hair points !'or
each had two baskets to get

poisoning) and Brian Grant free throws for a 79-74 lead Early in the second period, Portland.
the rally started.

(bruised foot) for at least three with 5 8 seconds left. Marks the Nuggets used an 11-2 run, Battier added 10 third-quar­games. But with a lineup that lost the ball out of bounds with including the first 3-pointers of ter points for Memphis, while 
included Sean Marks and 46 seconds left, ending Miami's the game by George McCloud Pistons 1.15, Mavericks 89 Wells and Wallace each scored Vladimir Stepania playing chances. and Isaiah Rider, to take a 32-Jerry Stackhouse had 28 nine for the Trail Blazers. 
extended minutes, the Heat 28 lead. points and eight rebounds, and The game was tied at 67 had an 18-0 run to make a But Orlando countered with Cliff Robinson added 24 points after three quarters. game of it before wilting in the a 14-2 flurry, keyed by back­to lead the Detroit Pistons to a­Portland led 83-81 with just
Magic 101, Nuggets 82

fourth. to-back baskets by McGrady on victory over the Dallas · over five minutes left, and the
Grant Hill scored 12 of his 23
Eddie Jones scored 22 and a running hook in the lane and Mavericks. Trail Blazers used an 18-4 run
points in the fourth quarter,
LaPhonso Ellis added 13 as a spinning 16-footer, to open Robinson also helped limit down the stretch to seal the
and the Orlando Magic beat
Miami lost its fourth straight, up an eight-point lead. The Dallas' Dirk No·witzki to 3-for-victory. Anderson hit four free
poor-shooting Denver, snap•
matching its longest skid from Magic led 52-46 at halftime. 14 shooting and 10 points. throws and a 3-pointer in a 90­
ping the Nuggets' three.:game
last season. James Posey's alley-oop bas­Detroit won for the fifth time in second stretch to help put the
winning streak.

"If I say we're missing those ket on an inbounds pass from six games, avenging a season­game out of reach.
Tracy McGrady added 20 
guys, then I'm belittling my Tariq Abd ul-Wahad cut opening loss to the Mavericks. Memphis, which entered the
points for the Magic despite
teammates. Those guys off the Orlando's lead to 55-54 with Detroit had a season-high in game shooting a league-worst
not playing in the final period.

bench gave a hell of an effort," 8:04 left in the third period, points, and finished with 31 39.3 percent, shot 45.5 percent
Ryan Bowen came off the
Jones said. "I won't say we but the Nuggets never threat­assists. against the Trail Blaze rs.
bench to score 14 points for
missed those guys. It's obvious, ened again. Horace Grant then Ben Wallace had 10 points, Portland shot 43.5 percent. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. 

The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righc ro cdic all classifieds for content wichour issuing refunds. 
l CLASSIFIEDS 
~ 
B&B 2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES 2 Chicago Apartment in Wrigleyville In athletics as in life, Aero1 Ml NO. OF CAMPUS 247-1124. Owned by ND prof Avail. lmmed. Engineers always triumph over the
i 
FOR SALE. WANTED Large 2 bdrm 1 bath, restored PERSONAL evil of Grundle -Snap Pajamas. Lodging -Bed & Breakfast, 45 mins woodwork, bookcases, dining rm, 
Come Monday, Bob's Boys & BagelFOR SALE: Northshore Condo, WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS! from Notre Dame. T&R INN hardwood floor, new kitchen, dish-SPRING BREAR largest selection 
Bilties will feel the wrath. Monday1428 Marigold Way near ND, 1 bdr, Sun Coast Vacations wants to send Between the Lakes. Ph (616) 244-washer, microwave. Mini blinds, of Spring Break Destinations, 

11 :30

1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen w/appli-you on Spring Break to Cancun, the 9084 www.lNNBETWEENTHE central heat'AC, ceiling fans, pri-including Cruises! Rep Positions, ances. 1 car garage. $69,900. Call Bahamas, Jamaica, or Mazatlan LAKES.COM vate balcony, laundry, off-street Free Drinks and Free trips avail-Work two nights in a row really
Doris at 254-1772 for more info. FOR FREE! To find out how, call parking incl. $1575 plus 1.5 months able. www.EpicuRRean.com 1-800­
1-888-777-4642 or email: Houses available for 3 to 6 stu-security deposit. Owner occupied. 231-4-FUN sucks. Props to Kerry, Noah, FOR SALE: Northshore Condo, sales@suncoastvacations.com dents. Good area...ADT, washer-Call 773-348-5832 or e-mail Soukup, Scott, Sheila. 1428 Marigold Way near ND, 1 bdr, dryer-air. Dave 340-0106 bower.1@nd.edu Spring Break with STS, Americas 1 bath, LR, DR & kitchen with appli· BABYSITTER for 3 children: One 6-#1 Student Tour Operator. Promote I LOVE YOU JENNIFER!!! 
ances. 1-car garage $69,000. Call Doris at 254-1772 for more into. SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica,  yr-old, 2-yr-old twins. Flexible hours: 12-15 per week. Five min­utes from ND Campus. 289-5763.  HOUSES FOR RENT 1) 9-br $2400/month 2) 5-br $1500/month  TICKETS ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices.  trips on campus, earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations. 1-800-648­4849 www.ststravel.com  Tomorrow. to Pittsburgh and beyond.  
S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. BEST Hotels, FREE parties, LOW- Female seeking hockey gear ­pads, helmet.right-handed stick.  3) 4-br $1000/month  232-0964.  FOR SALE: 2 bdrm limestone ranch, close to campus. 2-car  Papers at 6 a.m. are fun.  
,' { { i  EST prices! www. breakerstravel. com (800) 985-6789.  Call 634-2446 FEMALE ROOMMATE. Fully fur- Call Bill at 532-1896.  WANTED • ND TICKETS 289-9280. BUYING NAVY TIX SELLING PUR·  attached garage, hardwood floors, finished basement, CIA. Call 219· 233-9146.  And now for the obligitory 90210 classified ..  
I {  YAMAHA PICCOLO,professional  nished apt. at Castle Point. $400/mo. Spring 2002. Call Anna  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM·  DUE, STANFORD TIX. A.M..232· 237~ P M. 288-2726  LOMU, Welcome. ND is a better  What if they had originally hired  
model. Grenada wood, excellent  273-0307.  PUS. furn.  place for your presence here this  Luke Perry to play the part of Steve  
condition.  272•6306  BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICK·  weekend, just as I am a beller per- Sanders. the one he originally tried  
$750/080. 514-4515  ETS 277•6619 OR 273-3911  son for your presence in my life.  out for? Would this have thrown off  
FOR RENT  FREEDOM! 4 and 5 Bdrm Houses,  Enjoy your visit Hurry home. LOYLI  the rotation of the earth?  
TRAVEL MEDICAL INSURANCE  furnished, sec syst. washt'dry,  FOR SALE NAVY TICKETS. AT  
ON-LINE PURCHASE www.EZtripinsurance.com  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS mmmrentals.com  PRIME locations, util incl. 4 Br has V-ball & b•ball courts.  COST, 2&4 CALL FOR ALL LOCATIONS AND  INDIA STUDENTS! ON-LINE PURCHASEwww.indiatravelinsur- I need my satellite dish. ANO I WANT IT NOW!'t  
800-893·0692  email:mmmrentals@aol.com  233-9947.  PRICES 654-0168  ance.com 800·893-0692  

Friday, November 16, 2001 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
MLB 

Caminiti posts $2,000 bond 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
former National League MVP Ken Caminiti posted $2,000 bond and was freed from jail after police arrested him on drug possession charges. · 
Authorities said they found Caminiti in a Houston hotel room with crack cocaine. A court appr.arance for him was set for Friday. 
Early Wednesday after­noon, officers from a drug task force stopped a 2001 Mercedes registered to Caminiti. The vehicle was being driven by another man. 
Law officers -part of a task force that included the FBI and Drug Enforcement Administration -said they stopped the car because the driver was "suspicious." The officers did not elaborate. 
The driver told authorities he had permission to use the car and that Caminiti could be found at a hotel. 
Harris County Sheri ff' s Department deputies were sent to the hotel to check on Caminiti's welfare and make sure the car wasn't stolen. 
They found him in the room and "when the door was opened, deputies could smell what they believed to 

be crack cocaine," said 
Harris County Sheriff's 
Department spokesman Lt. 
Hobert Van Pelt. 
Unspecified drugs and drug 
paraphernalia were found in 
the room, authorities said. 
Caminiti, 38, who lives in the Houston area, was arrested along with two other people who were in the room. 
He was charged with pos­session of less than 28 grams of a controlled substance and booked into the Harris County Jail. 
''I'll wait to comment until I know more of the facts," Houston Astros first baseman Jeff Bagwell, one of Caminiti's closest friends, told the Houston Chronicle. 
In 1994, Caminiti went public with his battle with alcohol dependency, saying he had conquered it after volunteering for rehabilita­tion. 
Caminiti split last season with Texas and Atlanta. He hit .232 with nine home runs and 2 5 HBI for the Rangers and, after being released in July, batted .222 with six homers and 16 RBI with Atlanta. 
The Braves did not re-sign Caminiti and last week he filed for free agency. 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hilltoppers upset 'Cats 
of-18 from 3-point range (11
Associated Press 
percent). and turned the ball over 20 times to lose their sea­LEXINGTON, Ky. 
son opener for the second
David Boyden scored 15 
straight year. .
points, and Chris Marcus added Kentucky had problems at the13 points and 10 rebounds as Western Kentucky stunned No. 4 Kentucky 64-52 night in the . 
free-throw line as well, making only 12 of 24 and missing sev­eral key opportunities that could have put the Wildcats back in it late in the second half. 
first round of the NABC Classic. ~•s••-•=;i;i;;;;;i;;;;i;;;;i;;;;i;aaaaaaaaiiiiiiiiiiaaa~ The victory was the Hilltoppers' first over their intrastate rivals since a 107-83 victory that knocked the Wildcats (0-1) out of the 1971 NCAA Tournament. Western Kentucky (1-0) advanced to face George Washington, a 69-64 winner over Marshall, in Friday's championship game. Tayshaun Prince and Marvin Stone each scored 12 points to lead Kentucky, which will play the Thundering Herd in Friday's consolation game. The Wildcats shot 34 percent from the field, finishing only 2­
Sminute~__A 
fron1 DUTPCJliT Campc,s ~ 
Cold W•ther Experts 

,..CaU 259-1000 for more details 



The Observer's 35th -Anniversary Reunion 
April 20, 2002 
South Bend Marriott email obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information 
" 

\ \ \ ' \
\ 
~ ~ 
\ ) l i 
', \ 
\ \ 
\ ~ \ '\ 
q 
\ \ 
~ ': 
\\ ' \ 
\ \ 
,' 
~­
: ( 
' 
> )) \ \ (.
\ \ . \ 
; ~ 
') \ 
\ ) 
\ i., 
~ ) 
~ ~ 
\ \ 
'\ \ \ \\ 
\ i 
\ \ 
', ~ 
I \ 
{ \ 
H 
n \ \ 
q 
r ~ ~ ) 
' 
!\ ' I 
!. ' I 
\ 
! 
~ 
) '· 
Friday, November 16, 200 l 

AP poll 
team record 
1 Miami {44) 8-0 2 Nebraska (28) 11-0 3 Oklahoma 9-1 4 Florida 8-1 5 Texas 9-1 6 Tennessee 7-1 7 Oregon 9·1 8 BYU 10·0 9 Washington State 9·1 10 Maiyland 9·1 11 Michigan 1·2 12 Illinois 8-1 13 Stanford 6-2 14 Syracuse 8-2 15 Colorado 8-2 16 Washington 7-2 17 Auburn 1·2 18 · Virginia Tech 7-2 19 ·Louisville 9·1 20 UCLA 6-3 21 Florida State 6-3 22 South Carolina 7.3 23 Georgia 5-3 24 Marshall 8-3 25 Ohio State 6-3 




A LOOK AT THIS WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION page 18 
points 
1,768 1,756 1,609 1,608 1,518 1,407 1,388 1,188 1,187 1,103 1,1078 1,020 917 
843 
748 
722 
596 459 417 
379 
368 
341 
131 128 112 

ESPN/USA Today poll  
team  record  points  
1  Nebraska (30)  11-0  1,469  
2 3  Miami{28) Florida (2)  8·0 8·1  1,459 1,350  .  
4  Oklahoma  9-1  1,329  
5  Texas  9-1  1,261  
6  Tennessee  7~1  1,183  
7  Oregon  9-1  1,136  
8  BYU  10·0  1,055  
9  Maryland  9-1  956  
10  Washington State  9-1  926  
11  Michigan  7-2  902  
12  Illinois  8-1 ·  860  
13  Syracuse  8·2  703  
14  Washington  7-2  658  
15  Stanford  6-2  639  
16  Colorado  8-2  605  
17  Virginia Tech  7•2  505  
18  Auburn  7-2  394  
19  Louisville  9·1  383  
20  Florida State  6-3  361  
21  UCLA  6·3  278  
22  South Carolina  7.3  251  
23  Georgia Tech  6-3  161  
24  Marshall  8·1  139  
25  Fresno State  8-2  74  
Eye on Irish Opponents  
Saturday  
MICHIGAN STATE (5-3) at PURDUE (5-3)  
Temple at WEST VIRGINIA {3·6)  
UCLA at USC (5·5)  
BOSTON COLLEGE (6·3) at Rutgers  
TENNESSEE (7·1) at Kentucky  
California at STANFORD (6·2)  
Off  
NEBRASKA (11·0)  
TEXAS A&M {7·3)  
PITTSBURGH (4-5)  

around the dial 
GAME OF THE WEEK 


Navy at Notre Dame Illinois at Ohio State Michigan State at Purdue Michigan at Wisconsin UCLA at USC Florida State at Florida 
2:30 p.m., NBC 
noon. ESPN noon, ESPN2 
3:30 p.m.. CBS 
6:30 p.rn., FOX(]I 
8:00 p.m.. ABC 

By GREG LADKY 
Sports \~'/rirer 
The battle for the Big East championship was predicted to take place on Dec. 1 between Virginia Tech and Miami in Blacksburg. But it's No. 14 Syracuse who is making the noise in the Big East lately. They will take on No. 1 Miami for first place in the Big East and likely 
an  automatic BCS  birth  
this Saturday.  
The  Orangemen  have  

won eight-straight games, the fourth longest streak in 
the country. The Orangemen opened the season with two "quality" loses to Georgia Tech and Tennessee on the road. 
Defensive end Dwight Frneney will be the center of attention in this game. He will battle against two of the best offensive tack­les in the game in Miami's Joaquin Gonzalez and Bryant McKinnie in an attempt to harass Heisman frontrunner Ken Dorsey throughout the game. 
The Syracuse offense has been mediocre of late. The defense set up all three touchdown drives last 

OTHER TOP GAMES 
Florida State at Florida 
Can anyone imagine Florida State outside the top 25? That's the danger the No. 21 Seminoles face when they take on the No. 4 Gators in Gainesville, Fla. this weekend. 
Florida State has spent every week in the polls for 12 years, but after a 34-28 loss to North Carolina State last ·week, the Seminoles face the daunting task of needing to b,~at tlrn nation's hottest team to stay in the polls. 
There is a lot of finger pointing going on at Florida State, but the problem is the defense. The young Seminoles' defense has given up 92 points in the last thnw games. · · 
l3u.t the Seminoles still keep Florida coach Steve Spurrier on his toes. 
"\Ve haven't beaten these guys since 1997, so it would be ridiculous to think they don't have a chance to beat us," Spurrier said. 
The Florida offense has been on lire. The Gators have not punted in two games, including the mind boggling 54­17 vvin against a tough South Carolina tPam. Grossman throw for 302 yards and three touchdowns in that game -modest numbers for thP Gators' quarterback. 
O1w of the great things about college football is that heated rivalries bring out the best in teams. The Gators are heavily favored, but the Seminoles will be ready to play. 
week in an unimpressive 24-13 win against \'Vest Virginia. 
The Miami offense also hit .a roadblock last week against Boston College. Dorsey had the worst game of his career, failing to lead the Hurricanes to an offensive touchdown. However, Clinton Portis ran for 160 yards on 36 carries. 
Dorsey said Miami could benefit from the difficult test Boston College gave tlH~m last week. Miami won 18-7 on the strength of the last minute tip-inter­ception-lateral play even­

tuallv returrwd l'or an 80­yard· touchdmvn by dcfon­sive back Ed,,,varcl Heed. 
The llurricancs have tlw nation's longest winning streak at t 9 games. To keep that streak going, Dorsey needs to get their normally well-balanced offense back on track. 
Syracuse must do the same thing-create offense. Both teams have stellar defenses. Playing at home as the No. 1 team, Miami might be abl!~ to get away \Vith a struggling offonse, but the team who f)Xecutes the best offensively will likely win this game. 
Washington State at Washington 

No. 9 Washington State will battle in-state rival No. 16 Washington for the Apple Cup this Saturday in Seattle. 
Washington State's only loss of' the season came at tlw hands of Oregon, 24-17. With a win Saturday and an Oregon loss to Oregon State Dec 1, the Cougars will bt) off to the Fiesta Bowl. 
\'Vashington State quarterback Jason Gesser is quns­tionable for Saturday's game afti~r suffering a concus­sion and bruised ribs against Arizona State last week. GPsser has completed 54 percent of' his passes for 2,502 yards, 23 touchdowns and just 10 interceptions. 
\Vashington's luck ran out last week in a surprising 49-24 loss to Oregon State. The lluskies oft'Pns(~ man­aged just 245 yards last \\'eek. 
Washington demolished Washington State 51-3 last year in Pullman. But tlw Cougars don't look at this game as a measure of revenge. 
"\Ve're not the samP team that played against them last yr~ar and they aren't either," said coach l\tikc Price. 
Washington has a strong defensive front, led by All­American tackle Larry Triplett. But the Cougars lik1! to throw the ball down the field and often. Look for the Cougars to try to blow Washington out of the game early to avoid more Husky fourth quarter heroics. 
Friday, November 16, 2001 
The Observer• SPORTS page 19 
MLB 

Clemens takes Cy Young 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
With his record sixth Cy Young Award en route to his crowded trophy room. Hoger Clemens turned his attention to the Hall of Fame. 
'Tm still leaning on wearing the Yankee cap 

, in," the Rocket revealed Thursday after earning the American League's top pitching honor yet again. "I was just happy I was able to win one in the pin­stripes," Clemens said. Clemens. 20-3 with a 
3.51 ERA and 213 strike­outs for New York. received 21 of 28 first• place votes and 122 points, beating Oakland's Mark Mulder (60 points) and Seattle's Freddy Garcia (55) in voting by a panel of the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
.\L '.19 years, 3 1/2 months, Clemens became the third-oldest Cy Young winner behind Early Wynn (39 years, 10 months in 1959) and Gaylord Perry (40 years, 2 months in 1978). When Clemens won his first Cy Young in 1986. Mulder was 9 years old and Garcia was 10. 
"I think it was Deb who said today: 'Those young guys have plenty more time to win it.· " Clemens said, referring to his wife. 
Clemens is the only pitcher to win more than four Cy Youngs. Arizona's Handy Johnson won his fourth on Tuesday, match­

ing Steve Carlton and 
Greg Maddux. 
"vVe'll make room for 
it," Clemens said from his · home in the Houston area. "The five Cy Youngs right now are positioned, in fact, so that from every position in my weight room you can look up and see them front and center. 
"I want to see them 
every morning when I get 
up in that gym and get to 
work." 

After he won his first 
four, Clemens said each of 
his sons would get one: 
Koby, Kory. Kasy and 
Kody. The kids said No. 5 
was for their dad. 
Clemens said No. 6 was 
for his mother, Bess, who 
has emphysema. 
"She said she wanted 
me to win one for her," 
Clemens said. 
He called her right away 
and she got short of 
breath. 

"She was so emotional, 
she has to really concen­
trate to breathe properly," 
Clemens said. 
He is the first player to win a BBWAA award on three teams. He won the Cy Young for Boston in 1986, 1987 and 1991, then won it for Toronto in 1997 and 1998. He also was the AL MVP in 1986. 
With 280 career wins, Clemens could reach No. 300 next season. He's still thinking about the Yankees' Game 7 World Series loss to Arizona, which ended New York's streak of three straight titles. including two with Clemens. 
Since then, Clemens has 
been wearing his World 
Series rings more often. 
"It makes me appreciate 
even more what we've 
done the past two years," 
he said. "Sometimes you 
get a little spoiled." 
Clemens, who has 
always been interested in 
baseball history, repeated­
ly referred to the person 
the award is named after 
as Denton "Cy" Young. 
Clemens made a lot of his• 
tory this year. 

He became the first pitcher ever to start a sea• son 20-1 before losing his final two decisions. After injuring a hamstring and struggling in the first round of the playoffs, he rebounded to pitch well in the league championship series against Seattle and was the Yankees' most consistent pitcher in the World Series against Arizona. He won Game 3 and allowed just one run in New York's 3-2 loss in Game 7. 
Clemens, a six-time 20­game winner, had the sec­ond-highest ERA for an AL Cy Young winner, below only LaMarr Hoyt's 
3.66 for the Chicago White Sox in 1983. 
Clemens became the first starting pitcher with no complete games ever to win a Cy Young, according to the Elias Sports Bureau, baseball's statistician. 
It was the fifth Cy Young Award for the Yankees, the first since Hon Guidry in 1978. Bob Turley won in 1958, Whitey Ford in 1961, and Sparky Lyle in 1977. 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles open season at Hanover Tip-Off 
By JOE LINDSLEY · Sports Writer 
Despite an 8-17 record, last season 
was one of the most successful the 
Belles basketball team has seen in 
almost a decade. And the team, under 
second-year coach Suzanne Smith, is 
hoping to improve on that and reach at 
least.500 this season. 
With talented juni~r forward Kristen Matha back in action after numerous injuries last season and 6-foot fresh­man recruit Emily Creachbaum. the Belles begin their quest toward a suc­cessful season tonight versus Franklin College at the Hanover Tip-off Tournament. 
Franklin. along with Hanover College, which Saint Mary's plays Saturday, traditionally has been a strong team, and that's one of the rea­sons why Smith scheduled them. 
"I wanted to schedule this because some of the top teams in our confer­ence compare very closely to these teams," she said. 
It seems as though Franklin may have some weakness which the Belles may be able to exploit. 
"Franklin has a new coach. They've had a change in their program," said Smith. "We don't totally know what to expect as far as Xs and Os [but] I feel good about that fact that it's a new coach. a new system they're trying to get used to. We're playing them early, so maybe it hasn't totally come togeth­er yet." 
Last season. the same words could have been said about Saint Mary's, as it was Smith's first year coaching the Belles. This season is different though. 
The players and coach understand each other better now, and they are able to help each other out. 
"Our focus is to work as a team," 
said senior forward Anne Blair, last 
season's most valuable player. 
Earlier this week, Saint Mary's had a 
scrimmage against North Central 
College, and Smith came away very 
impressed. 
"The first twenty minutes was the 
best defense I've really seen for the 
level we're at," she said. "Defensively, 
we're really going to be able to take 
some teams out of their games." 
According to Matha, the Belles' 
defense was strong despite a challeng• 
ing opponent. 
"I had never seen a team that tough. It was one 6-foot-1 woman coming off the bench after another," she said. "The [Saint Mary's] guards did a great job coming down on the post. Defen~e is going to create our offense this year." 
The improvement of the defense from last season is due to increased trust, according to Blair. who averaged 9.5 points and six rebounds per game. 
"We're there for each other. We're talking. If you trust each other, you have it made," said Blair. 
While the defense was strong, the offensive needs some tweaking, but not much. 
..We struggled a little offensively throughout the whole scrimmage, but it's things I don't think we're worried about," Smith said. 
Blair believes that the offensive will improve once the season starts at the Hanover tournament. 
"We're just really excited," she said. "We just need to go play [and] settle down. We have the skills, the talents. the depth." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at lindsley. l@nd.edu. 

The Congregation of Holy Cross welcomes our military chaplain guests. www.nd.edu/ ~vocation ANSWER ~ THECALL w  



Friday, November 16, 2001
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish gear up for Big East tournament 
Clark named Big East Coach of the Year 
Special to The Observer 
First-year head coach Bobby Clark. who guided the Notre Dame men's soccer team to a second-place finish in the final Big East regular sea­son stand­ings, has been named the Big East M e n ' s S o c c e r Coach of the Year. In addition, a record five Irish players were selected for all-conference honors. 

Irish 
continued from page 28 
other team's strengths. For instance, last week we had mid­fielder Ashley Drier shadow BC's and West Virginia's best offensive midficlders, and we'll probably do that again this vveekend." 
Prior to Notre Dame's game against Eastern Illinois, the University of Cincinnati will square off against the University of Oakland at 5:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. The winners of these two games will play each other Sunday in the second round of the NCAA tournament at 1 p.m. at Alumni field. 
While the Irish are heavily favored to defeat Eastern Illinois on Friday, they realize that they cannot underestimate any of their opponenli;; and must guard against an upset. 
"\Ve have to take it one game at a time." said \,Yaldrumi "If we advance on Friday, then we will have a tough game on Sunday. Oakland and Cincinnati are two very underrated teams." 
"Oakland has a lot of interna­tional players on their team, while Cincinnati won the Conference USA Tournament. We will have our hands full with either one of those teams, but we first need to focus our atten­tion on Friday." 
The Irish's recent success can be .attributed to an offensive resurgence. Leading scorer sophomore forward Amanda Guertin will be looking to extend her goal streak to nine games 

Junior forward Erich Braun and sophomore midfielder Justin Detter were first-team all-con­ference honorees, while senior defender Griffin Howard and freshman goalkeeper Chris Sawyer were selected to the all­conference second team. In addi­tion, sophomore midfielder Chad Riley earned third-team all-con­ference honors. 
Clark is just the second coach in Big East history to earn the annual award in his first year in the league as he directed the Irish to a 12-5 overall record and 7-3 conference mark, the most conference wins by an Irish team since joining the league in 1995. The Irish, winners of nine of 
this weekend. Fellow sopho­more forwards Melissa Tancredi and Amy Warner hope to con­tinue their postseason success after goals in last week's Big East Tournament action. 
The Irish could have a full ros­ter for this Friday's game against Eastern Illinois for the first time all season. Junior for­ward Ali Lovelace returned to her starting role last weekend in the Big East Tournament after batting nagging injuries all sea­son. Midfielder freshman Mary Boland may also return this we·ekend two weeks ahead of schedule from a foot injury that has sidelined her for the last four weeks. 
"I expect us to play well on Friday. \Ne had a great week of practice," said Waldrum. "I think our offense is finally where it needs to be. All of our forwards played very well in the Big East tournament. Our defense looked very strong. Also. I think the girls are ready to go." 
Contact Joe Licanclro at licandro. l@ncl.edu. 


their last 10 games; are ranked in both the NSCANadidas (20th) and Soccer America (J 7th) polls this week for the first time since the 1996 campaign. 
Clark and the Irish went 9-1 in October and November after starting the season 3-4 in the month of September. In his 15th season as a head coach, Clark's record stands at 165-68-25 (.688). 
Braun and Detter become the second and third players in Irish soccer history to earn first-team all-conference honors. Braun, the 1999 Big East Rookie of the Year, stands atop the Irish scor­ing charts in 2001 with a team­leading 12 goals and three 
Stop in and enjoy a delicious~marinated chicken sandwich, a loaded hot-dog, and 1nuch more! 14" Chicago-Style Pizza w/ three toppings $9. 95 for a lin1ited time 
Delivery available through Dine-in 
1733 South Bend Ave (Located next to Turtle Creek -1/4 mile E. of Canpus State Road 23 
2 7 7 -2 5 2 7 Must be 21 to purchase alcohol. 


assists for a team-best 27 points. He has scored a goal in all but two games in which the Irish have scored this season. 
Detter, who was a Big East All­Rookie team selection a year ago, is one of three players who has started all 17 games this season. He currently is tied for third in scoring on the Irish with four goals and five assists. 
Howard earns all-conference honors for the first time in his career as a second-team selec­tion. A 17-game starter and Irish captain, he has a goal and as assist this season. In addition, he has helped anchor an Irish defense that has produced eight shutouts this year. 
Mon-Th 10:30arn-9pm Fri-Sat 10:30am-10pm Sun 11:30am-8pm 
THE FIGHTING IRISH 
5 Televisions avai I able to watch the game 

Sawyer is one of just three freshmen to earn a spot on one of the all-conference teams. He has played 13 games in goal for the Irish and has been the team's starting goalkeeper in Notre Dame's last 12 contests. Sawyer has posted six complete­game shutouts in 1114:45 min­utes logged, while giving up just six goals. He owns a 0.48 goals against average and .88'2 save percentage as he has made 45 saves in 13 contests. 
Riley, a ·member of the Big East All-Rookie squad in 2000, has started 15 of 17 contests this season and leads the team vvith six assists to go along with his one goal. 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Wrirer 

The Notre Dame men's soccer team pre­pares today for what could be one of the most important games in the program's history. The Irish take on the St. John's Red Storm tonight in a semifinal match of the Big East Conference tournament in Storrs, Conn. 
\-Vith the games being played in Connecticut. the Irish may have a chance to avenge a. tough 1-0 loss to the Huskies in the Championship, which was the only blemish for the Irish in their last 10 games. 
"I can't wait to go back [to Connecticut] -we said that when we were there the last time," Notre Dame head coach Bobby Clark commented. "We can't wait to go back. Hopefully, it could be a chance to get a good victory to get us towards the NCAAs as well." to continue its strong play of late. In seven 
After failing to make the Big East tourna­of their last nine matches, the Irish have ment last season, the Iri5h have pulled an held their opponents scoreless. about face under Clark in his first year in The eighth-ranked Red Storm should South Bend. Notre Dame enters its semifi­prove to be a tough match for the Irish. St. 
nal game of the tournament  John's entered the  
as the second-seeded team in the conference. \,Yinners  "I don't know what  postseason with a 12­2-3 record as the  
of nine of their last 10, the Irish will look to make a run for the NCAA tournament with some impressive play  this season will bring, but we·II take it one game at a time.,.  third seed in the con­ference, having scored as many points as the Irish  
in Connecticut.  during the regular  
"Now we go to the final four in UConn, and that is a great experience for [the  Bobby Clark head coach  season. The Irish earned the higher seed due to more  
players]." Clark said. "I  conference wins. The  
don't know what this season  Red Storm's lone Big  

will bring, but we'll take it one game at a East defeat came by way of a 2-1 loss to time." defending national champions and top­Coming off a 1-0 opening-round victory seeded Connecticut. against Georgetown. Notre Dame wiil hope Tonight's match-up may prove to be a 
duel of stingy defonses. Notre Danrn goal­keeper Chris Sawyer and St. John's goalie Guy Hertz enter the match-up ranked lirst and second, respectively, in the Big Eai;;t. In addition, both teams have posted seven shutouts during regular season play this year. 
The Irish may have a bit of history going against them. ln the previous eight match­ups in their series Vvith the Red Storm, the Irish have only taken one victory, being outscored in that span 20-6. 
If the Irish should win their game tonight. they would meet the winner of the Connecticut-Rutgers game at noon on Sunday for the conference title. The Irish last won the Big East tournament title in 1996, their first year in the conference. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 

Friday, November 16, 2001 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

THE FOLLOWING EVENTS ARE HAPPENING AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE: Author Events: 
Professor Ralph Mcinerny, will be signing copies of 
Emerald Aisle, 5th in the Notre Dame series, on Friday, 
Nov. 16 from 12:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. 
Fr. Nicholas Ayo will be signing copies of Signs ofGrace 
on Friday, Nov. 16 from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
John Heisler will be signing copies of Quotable Rockne on Saturday, Nov. 17 from 9:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. 
Reid Duffy will be signing copies of his book Indiana's 
Favorite Restaurants on Saturday, Nov. 17 from 10:30 a.m. 
to 12:30 p.m. 

Joe Garner will be signing his book Echoes ofNotre Dame Football on Saturday, Nov. 17 from 10:30 a.m. to 
12:30 p.m. 

Michael Oriard will be signing copies of King Football on Saturday, Nov. 17 from 11 :00 a.m. to 1 :00 p.m. 
Ted Mandell, ND Professor of Film & Video Production, will be signing copies of Heart Stoppers and Hail Marys on 
Saturday, Nov. 17 from 11 :30 a.m. to 1 :30 p.m. 
The 12 Nights Before Christmas Tour will have readings and signings on Saturday, Nov. 24 from 11 :00 a.m. to 
1:00 p.m. 

Father Malloy, University of Notre Dame President, will read 1"'he Newborn King: The Story ofthe First Christmas on Saturday, Dec. 22 at 11 :00 a.m., as part of our 2nd annual "True Meaning of Christmas" Celebration. 
Musical Event: The Undertones, Notre Dame acappella group, will perform on Saturday, Nov. 17 in the Bookstore one hour following the game. 
HAMMES 
. 

NOTRE DAME 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Varsity Shop (in the Joyce Center) 

BOOKS'IORE 
Friday 9:00 am -10:00 pm Friday 9:00 am -5:00 pm 


IN THE ECK CENTER Saturday 8:00 am -l 0:00 pm Saturday 8:00 am -7:00 pm Sunday 9:00 am -10:00 pm Sunday 10:00 am -2:00 pm· 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 
Friday, November 16, 2001 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 

Batteast 
continued from page28 
Her stellar prep effort also caught the attention of Big East coaches, who voted the 6­foot-1 forward the Big East Preseason Rookie of the Year. Irish head coach Muffet McGraw has been most impressed with Jacqueline Batteast's work ethic in prac­tice. 
"She's really come in with an open mind in terms of her wanting to learn," McGraw said. "She's not come in and been satisfied with where she is. She's really working hard, she's learning a lot of things. She's listening and trying _to learn more. I think that she's going to continue to get better as long as she wants to." 
The fres};lman got her first lesson in Notre _Dame's open­ing preseason game against Ohio Girls' Basketball Magazine. The exhibition team featured experienced college graduates and guarded the 18­year-old like she'd never been guarded before. Batteast scqred only eight points on 4­17 shooting from the field, but did grab 10 rebounds in 30 minutes. 
"Nothing was falling but I was still getting rebounds," Batteast said. "I was pretty impressed with how strong these women are. That was a 

.. big adjustment." In her second game though, the butterflies were gone from her stomach and Batteast showed her South Bend fans the moves they've grown to love, scoring 17 points, grab­bing six rebounds and coming away with four steals in only 18 minutes against Division II Christian Brothers University. Whether she's turning the scoreboard into her own per­sonal cash register or strug­gling to get the ball in the bas­
and see them." 
But it wasn't until some good luck after a loss that she began to learn just how talented she really was. Batteast played for an AAU team in Chesterton, near Valparaiso, when she was just 14. That year, her team yvas beaten by a squad based in Indianapolis called The Family. After the game, the coach called and asked if Jacqueline wanted to join their side. She gladly accepted. 
As a member of The Family, Jacqueline Batteast played alongside Shyra Ely, currently a freshman at Tennessee and regarded as the best player in Indiana last year. 
"I played with the top recruit in the nation for four years," Jacqueline Batteast said. "That helped my game too. When you 're around good people it makes you good." 
Jacqueline Batteast always excelled at Washington, aver­aging 21.3 points and 14 rebounds as a junior and 16.9 points and 11.8 boards as a sophomore. During her senior year, many teams called with scholarship offers, some of which she seriously consid­ered. 
"Early on, she thought that she wanted to go away," Wayne Batteast said of his daughter. "She looked at other schools kind of seriously." But in the end, Jacqueline Batteast heeded her father's advice of "if you can't beat what's at home, why leave" and decided to attend Notre Dame. 
Wayne Batteast thinks Notre Dame is the perfect school for his daughter, a National Honor Society member, for many rea­sons. 
..Notre Dame fits her person­ality," Wayne Batteast said. "She's quiet and laid back and focused on her academics. To me, Notre Dame allows you to do that. Some o_ther schools, she wouldn't have fit in as well." 
Jacqueline Batteast also knows that while basketball may have opened doors and saved her parents quite a bit in tuition bills, the sport won't be there forever. For that reason, academics put Notre Dame on the top of her list. 
"Basketball only lasts for so long and Jacqueline really has no pro aspirations," Wayne Batteast said of his daughter, who intends to major in man­agement. "She's really got hoc head on straight as far as bas­ketball is getting her an educa­tion. she knows· that it's only for a little while. I'm really more proud of her academics. I tell people that all the time." 
These days, Wayne Batteast sits surrounded by Jacqueline Batteast supporters at Notre Dame home games. Wayne and Margaret Batteast bring more than 20 total family members to each game, but Wayne has been surprised most by the number of fans showing up who over the past four years have been the oppo­sition. 
"With her going to Notre Dame now, a lot of people tell me they couldn't cheer for her as much when they were play­ing their schools, but now everybody's a Notre Dame fan," Wayne Batteast said. 
So besides helping the Irish increase their total points and rebounds, Batteast is helping add to Notre Dameas atten­dence. -Season ticket sales topped 7,000 this year, which McGraw thinks is no coinci­dence. 
"One of the reasons we have so many season tickets sold is people are excited about hav­ing a hometown player on the team, especially somebody that represents our team so well," McGraw said. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 
ByMATTORENCHUK 
Spores Writer 
It has been a long battle, but the Notre Dame hockey team is finally playing good hockey: The season started with chaos with the Irish going 0-4-2 in their first six games. 
They played well, and took leads into the third period, but weren't able to hold on to those leads. That has all changed the past two weekends. 
First, the Irish played Northern Michigan on the road. Northern Mii:;higan was ranked 10th nation­ally, and was in first place in the CCHA. But the Irish was able to split the series and get their first win. Then last weekend the Irish returned home and earned a win and a tie against Ferris State. 
"Any time you can battle and get three out of four points in a week-· end, then it is considered a suc­cessful weekend in the CCHA," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "Last weekend we played as well as we have all year." 
With their improved play, the Irish have moved up in the CCHA standings. They are playing good hockey offensively, defensively and on special teams. 
Notre Dame hits the road again this weekend. The Irish will travel up to Kalamazoo, Mich. to face the Western Michigan Broncos. 
Western Michigan currently is tied for fifth place in the CCHA with seven points. They are one of three teams that sit one point in front ofthe Irish. 
In Kalamazoo, the Irish will find a tough Bronco squad. Western Michigan is 4-2-1 at Lawson Arena with three of those wins 
ket, Jacqueline Batteast has one luxury that none of her teammates, and hardly any elite Division I player has. Her 


WWW .LUNKERS.COM 
family is always just minutes 
PH 1-616-663-3745 
away. 
26324 US 12 EAST 
"It's great to make a local 
EDWARDSBURG, Ml 
phone call and to go home 
49112 
after a game sometimes when I need that comfort," Jacqueline Batteast said. "It's good to see 
Cold Weather Experts 

FOUNDED BY FRAN MCCOLLESTER -A 1977 ND GRAD!your family, sometimes a 
5minutes from Campus
phone call just won't help. It's good to actually touch them 
ONE OF THE LARGEST OUTDOOR STORES IN THE COUNTRY! 



!~fl'OU VL\~~1~6 0~ ! Tlf~Ul~6 JVW?? 
If you're ajunior or if you were abroad spring of your junior year then your parents should have received information regarding JPW 2002. 
1, YOUI PAIINT! DID NOT lltllYI INJOIMAftON PllA11 tONTA(T TIii JPW o,n,1 AT 6!1-6028 01 Pl(IC Ult AN APPlltATION 
OUT!IDI OJ TUI JPW Offltl lMATID AT 214 ­UJOITUNI. 
HOCKEY 

Irish finally play up to potential 
coming against Michigan, Maine, 
and Nebraska-Omaha. Those 
three teams were all ranked in the 
top 10 nationally. 

Freshman Pat Dwyer and senior Mike Bishai lead \Vcstern Michigan offensively. each having 10 points on the year. In between the pipes is another freshman in Mike Mantua. Mantua is 4-3-1 on the season, and he posted his first shutout of the _year in last week­end's win against Nebraska­Omaha. 
Western Michigan runs into a much-improved Notre Dame_ team. Early in the season the Irish had trouble holding onto leads. Recently, the young defense has gelled and freshman Morgan Cey has solidified his position as the starting goaltender. The result is a unit that is playing better and holding onto leads late in games. 
Helping out the defense has been the offensive production from the first line. Junior Connor Dunlop and senior David Inman lead the team in scoring. When one has the· goal. the other Ls usu­ally in on the assist. 
"Connor and David are really complimenting each other well right now." said Poulin. 
In the past two weekends Notre Danm has moved up in the CCI IA. More important is that they are playing ,vith confidence, and that has led to wins. 
The Irish look to continue their momentum this weekend in Kalamazoo. Tonight's game is set for a 7:05 p.m. start, while Saturday's game has an 8:05 p.m. start. 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu. 
YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR FISHING, HUNTING AND CAMPING GEAR! WE NOW HAVE A HUGE GIFT AREA! 
ffe\lNGl!ElFtS atNtN IR!ESlAlUJftAlNl 
-LOCATED INSIDE LUNKER'S ­
LARGE MENU OF DELICIOUS FOOD AND DRINK ITEMS. SURROUNDED BY LARGE AQUARIUMS FULL OF FISH AND BIG SCREEN TVS FULL OF SPORTS! PERFECT PLACE TO DINE BEFORE OR AFTER THE GAME! 
OVER 20 AQUARIUMS, INCLUDING OUR 6,000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM 

VISIT OUR CLOTHING
COME EXPERIENCE THE 2ND 
AREA FEATURING:
HIGHLIGHT OF THE AREA 
( 1 ST BEING ND) NORTH FACE 
PATAGONIA 
MIDWEST'S LARGEST SELECTION WOOLRICH 
OF FISHING, HUNTING AND COLUMBIA 
CAMPING/BACKPACKING EQUIP­FILSON 
MENT. SO MUCH TO SEE AND 
EXPERIENCE! 
HUGE AUTHENTIC SIGNED SPORTS MEMORABILIA* SECTION 
•GOD BLESS AMERICA• 
LOCATED ONLY 15 MINUTES FROM ND! SR 23N TO US 12 


Friday, November 16, 2001 page 23 
The Observer . SPORTS 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
McGraw inks pair for class of 2006 
ate impact," McGraw said. that is lacking depth this sea­.very feisty," McGraw said. son, recently suffered the loss
By KATIE McVOY "However these two are two son. Following in the footsteps "The same thing with -or her brother. Phillip Ivey

Associate Sports Editor 

that are going to be pushing of 6-3 freshman Teresa Borton Courtney. She's a big kid who passed away in a car crash people for playing time." and 6-1 freshman Jackie can shoot from the perimeter last week. McGraw expects to 
Two high school seniors Duffy and LaVere will be Batteast, LaVere will add which we haven't had a lot of see her on campus this week­

have signed national letters of 

looking for playing time as the height under the boards. that." end, but is unsure if she will 
intent to play basketball at 

Irish continue to reload their "Courtney LaVere's someone The Irish still have one feel well enough to attend Notre Dame for the 2002-2003 
roster. McGraw is hoping to we really needed, [we needed] scholarship available, one Sunday's game. 
season. head coach Muff'et add depth to this year's young more size," McGraw said. "We which was offered to Anne . Notre Dame will open regu­

McGraw 

team and looking to next fall's have kind of a thin front line Struthers. lar season play· against
announced 

recruiting class to do just that. right now so she's someone "We have one offer outstand­Valparaiso on Sunday at 1 
o n 
"The point guard was key for who's going to fit very well ing and we will not be offering p.m. in the Joyce Center. The 
Thursday. 

us," McGraw said. "We need to with our style of play. She's a it to anyone else," McGraw Crusaders finished last season 
Point guard 

have a back-up for Le'Tania very good free-throw line said. "We're waiting for Anne 7-22 near the bottom of the 
M e g a n 

Severe. She's doing a great job shooter -and a good compli­Struthers to make up her Mid-Continent Conference. The Duffy and 
but we have to have another ment for the post players we mind. I think everybody knows Crusaders dropped their exhi­
forward 

point guard to rely on." have right now." that we are definitely recruit­bition game; the Irish won 
Courtney 

The 5-foot-7 Duffy averaged The 6-foot-3 piek from ing her and we're going to both of theirs. The inexperi­
La Vere 

1 7 points per game last season Buena High School in Ventura wait and see if Anne decides. If enced Irish team will be look­
McGraw
committed at Chaindalc Julienne High Calif., averaged 13.8 points she decides to· go somewhere ing to minimize mistakes. 

to the Irish School in Dayton. Ohio. She and eight rebounds per game else we will just use that schol­"I understand there are mis­

women's basketball program 

was named to the 2001 first during her junior season. Her arship next year." takes we're gonna make," after the signing period began team Division I all-state team 73 percent free-throw average Struthers is the consensus McGraw said. "It's the mental on Wednesday. 
and received an honorable was good enough to land her ~o. 1 pick and hails from mistakes that are going to 
'Tm really excited about this 

mention All-America from in the top 10 national rankings freshman Katie Flecky's home­drive me crazy. There are 
class particularly ... these two Street & Smiths. during the 2000-2001 season town in Colorado. According to some things I'll tolerate, there 

classes back to hack" McGraw 

"Megan Duffy is someone by USA Today. She was also a McGraw, she has narrowed are some things I won't and 
said on Thursday. "I think it's 

we 're really thrilled with," consensus top-15 recruiting her choice down to three learning the difference is what 
really important we got these 

McGraw said. "She can shoot pick ranked as the No. 10, No. schools and Notre Dame is one the team·s focusing on." 
positions." 

the three; she's a very feisty 13 and No. 15 draft pick by of those. However, when and . Prior to the start of Sunday's
Duffy and LaVere will join an 

defender; she's the type of Blue Star Index, School Sports what her college choice will be game, the 2000 NCAA Irish team already heavy in 
player that's going to dive for and ASGR respectively. remains unclear. • Championship banne.r will be underclassmen following this 
loose balls and create a lot of McGraw was at a loss to "We were under the impres­raised at the Joyce Center. season's six-member recruit­
havoc for the defense. She's a com pare either player to sion that this weekend we'd "It's exciting. I think at the ing class. Although most of her 
great leader and I think she someone she has coached pre­probably hear something," exhibition game [when they
key players will be returning 

has been very successful on all viously. Both Duffy and LaVere McGraw said. "Other than that announced] now the starting next year, McGraw is looking 
the team's she's played on." will add a new feeling to the we don't have any indication. line-up for the national cham­for the two recruits to make 
All-Star Girls Report named team. She really does not know pionship team," McGraw said. 
their presence known early. 

Duffy the No. 24 pick and "Megan [Duffy] is a very dif­where she wants to go." "I think that was kind of excit­"We'll have eight of our top 
School Sports put her at No. ferent point guard than we've ing to hear that. When theynine players back so we won't 29. had in the past. She's some­Notes: raise the banner, there's goinghave to rely on freshmen to 
LaVere will join the Irish at body that's a very good three­. Niele Ivey, Notre Dame's to be a lot of emotion out 
come in and make an immedi­

the post-position, a position point shooter, but she's also leading point guard last sea-there... · 

SMC SWIMMING 

Petcoff happy with team's performance 
satisfactory happen tonight." going to take it all out and invest it yard breastroke," said Smith. "I yard butterfly and in the 200-yard
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 

After arriving in shirts that read in the last meet." was surprised I broke my record butterfly.
Sports Writer 

"Invest" across the front, the Over half the team had season too." "My freestyle is going really Belle's swim team started to do best times and both junior Lauren Ramsey was also pleased with good," she said. "I just went for it Swimming record-breaking wins just that tonight. Smith and sophomore Megan her record-breaking time of one [today] and it worked out." 
and season best times, the Belles The word on the shirts is serving Ramsey broke previous records minute, 59.81 seconds for the 200-Ramsey also finished first in the 
lost a close race against Western as a team goal this season. They they had set. yard freestyle. 200-yard butterfly with a time of 
Ontario University, 114 to 88. are "investing" their time and Smith broke her previous 200-"I felt strong in the water,' said two minutes, 16.04 seconds. "Everybody had a great meet. energy towards the season. yard breaststroke record that she Ramsey. "I've been wanting to Sophomore Maureen Palchak also 
IThe past week] we had gone into "Each practice we put in work, had set freshman year, by .25 sec­break two minutes for a long had double wins, in both the 50 
a rest period so we could see these time, and effort investing it all in onds with a time of two minutes time." yard freestyle with a time of 25.69 
results," said Coach Gregg Petcoff. our season," said junior Lane and thirty-five seconds. Ramsey holds two other Saint seconds, and in the 100-yd 
"Overall, everyone had something Herrington. "Eventually we are "I really wanted to win the 200-Mary's records as well, in the 100-freestyle with a time of 57.01 sec­onds. Petcoff was extremely happy with how well his team performed against tough competition. ''I'm absolutely pleased with the results," said Petcoff. "This was a fantastic way to start a three day weekend of races ... The Belle's are competing tonight against Texas Christian University. "The team is handling this com­petition well. [We] are going in with the right attitude," said Petcoff. "The personal wins today helped cement that [attitude] for tomorrow. 
Contact Nellie Williams at 
will6l76@saintmarys.edu.




page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 16, 200 l 
·······-·-­

···-----------------------------------------­
Belles 
continued from page 28 
to escape a meal at the dining hall. 
"I get to go home and do my laundry," she said with a laugh. "But mostly I don't get the homesick feeling and that would add to all the other kinds of stress you have. It's just eas­ier." 
And not only did Saint Mary's give Creachbaum a touch of home, it also gave her the ben­efits of a big university with Notre Dame across the street. 
"I chose Saint Mary's because I wanted to come here and be involved in all the Notre Dame activities and play basketball." 
And playing basketball is what Creachbaum does. 
But Creachbaum isn't the only one who benefits from staying close to home. Both Saint Mary's and Marion, her alma mater, are looking to reap the benefits from a local kid who chose to stay home. 
"It's exciting to get a good local kid," Saint Mary's head coach Suzanne Smith said. "It gets people involved in the community because a lot of people know her and want to see how she does, either com­ing to our games or just follow­ing us. in the paper:" 
With the graduation of senior Anne Blair, a South Bend native, Creachbaum will find her spot as the hometown hero. 
As a Division Ill College with­out scholarships to offer, when recruiting season came around, Smith had to offer Creachbaum something else. What she found to offer was that sense of community found in staying home. 
"It's a plus," Smith said. "You can stay close to your family, you cab be here, you can step in our program and help us out." 
James Aldradge, Marion's current head coach, took part in Creachbaum's decision to come to Saint Mary's as both a coach and a friend. Prior to coaching at Marion, Aldradge spent his time as an assistant coach for Bethel College and knew Smith's reputation as a coach. That, coupled with Saint Mary's proximity to Elkhart, was all he needed to make a recommendation. 
"We were vory confident [Smith] would do a great job turning the program around ... talking to Emily it was very easy for me to recommend that," he said. "She wanted to be able to play closer to her family so people could watch her and I think she made a good decision." 
Playing for the future 
Being less than half an hour away from home wasn't the only reason Creachbaum chose Saint Mary's. The Saint Mary's

r------~---------~
I  I  
:  MOVIE POSTERS  :  
:  www.moviepostersonline.net  :  

: (mention OB w/ your order for free S/H) : 
I I 
~----------------· 
basketball program was one that was building for the future and Creachbaum, fondly referred to as Creach by for­mer coaches and teammates, knew she could be a part of that future. 
"I think we just need to build," she said. "Help build the program so that people will look at Saint Mary's and say they've come a long way in three or four years ... hopefully my class will help that along." 
Starting off her first season in collegiate ball, Creachbaum is part of a team that doubled its number of wins last year and has high hopes to continue improving. While Creachbaum is benefiting from being close to home, the Belles will be ben­efiting from her desire to take the team to the next level. 
"[I told her] you have a chance to be a start of some­thing, building this program," Smith said. "So I think that excited her quite a bit." 
'Tm really happy she can be part of the building process," Aldradge said. 
Where Creachbaum will help the Belles is getting things done on the court. Although she's only a freshman. Smith said she has already seen a high level of maturity. After playing varsity basketball for four years in high school, averaging 23 points a game during her senior y ear. Creachbaum may be the one the Belles need to get the job done. 
"When you need something to happen. when you're going through a dry spell, she's the one that would step up, go get the ball, get everybody else out of the way and get it done," Aldradge said. 
Creachbaum brings to the Belles an ability to make a strong finish. 
"She can finish; she's a great scorer," Smith said. "We can help her out by making plays, but she can finish them." 
Being part of a new team 

Even though she stayed close to the comfort of home, Creachbaum still has adjust­ments to make. She has a new home, a new style of play and a new team. 
She needs to find her niche. But no one doubts that she will do just that. 
"All four years she was a var­sity player and she saw radical­ly different teams each year," Aldradge said. "It was a differ-
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish top Ontario University, 13(?-64 
Ontario allowed for the men toBy NELLIE WILLIAMS race in events they might not oth­
Spores Writer 

erwise compete in. "It was nice to swim my off 
Continuing traditions docs not evenl'i tonight," said J.H. Teddy. always have to be extremely "I need to focus on the 200-yard competitive. The Notre Dame butterfly tomorrow. It is one of men's swim team proved that my better events this year." keeping traditions with \rVestern Captain Mike Koss had some Ontario University is always a season best times despite being guaranteed good time. in Japan for nine days earlier this 
Swimming Western Ontario for month. the 40th year in a row, Notre _"I felt a little sluggish last Dame men won with a score of week," said Koss. "The meet 136 to 64. The Notre Dame today went real well, though. It's men's team has had more meets good that we keep on this tradi­with western Ontario than any tion with Western Ontario." other team. Going into the meet against 
"This is the oldest dual meet, Texas Christian tonight, Notre between Canada and America," • Dame is 5-2, with losses to the said Notre Dame's head coach University of Tennessee and Tim Welch. "Things are a little Rutgers University. less formal during this meet than Although some traditions are they usually are during the sea-good to keep, Notre Dame is hop­son." ing to beat one tonight against 
Although competition may be Texas Christian, a team they less formal and more relaxed, have never defeated before. that did not stop the Notre Dame "\i\'e're progressing," said men from taking first place in Welch. "Ow· main focus is going eight of the meet's eleven races. to be speed. Our objectives this 
"I'm very happy with the season have been to get faster preparation and happy with the each week -as measured by the way the guys focused all the way clock." . through," said Welch. "It is important to race more than one day in a row before we go to the 
championships." Contact Nellie Williams at The meet against Western wi1l6176@saintmarys.edu. 

THE FRESHEST ITALIAN IN TOWN ~ •or1a I233-tOOOIItalian~cili D~g Family Owned Tradition Fresh PreparedOriginal Family Recipes Dinners, Pizza 235 s. Michigan St.Large Groups andrt1teSouth Bend, In 4660tWelcome drink selection.www.cataHnos.com Dine in/carry..-out Reservations recommended DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S -FINEST ITALIAN DINING  
Buy one Dinner, get the second for 1/2. Not valid on Holidays or Notre Dame event weekends or with other offers.  
1:,,J:,: :+'?)':'"''' ,:::?t r)\ttr1\:!t:t;<': :t ftJ+{i:::li!):I!!:tiJ:i!!,i_:,i.,,:;_-_i_/_,,11 ,\_l___l_:,:_:;,::·:=_l_',,i.;_!_•,:_::,;,i,_::,,_f_:_::_!_i_,,::_,_,_,_:j_;_•;_i:::r , 'tit-r::•.. t ,)Jtttm:riirr:::rr:::.::::,'':'•···•·: ••...___,,, .­,,,.,,,,,_<<  


RELIGION 
ent roster every year and she was able to mesh and gel with each team and not only mesh and gel as a teammate, but become a leader each Beason." 
Smith has already seen that ability to be part of team emerge on the court. Creachbaum joins the Belles as one of six freshmen who will join the seven veteran mem­bers of the team, and she has a tough position to play. As a post player, she will compete with Blair and junior Kristen Matha, the Belles two leading scorers last season, for playing time. 
"She fits right in with them and battles with them everyday in practice," Smith said. " ... I think she can really step in and have a big role with our team this year." 
Creachbaum knows she can't take the leadership role right away as a freshman, but she still has her sights set on being an important part of this team. Her goals don't stop with fin­ishing this season, they reach· all the way to graduation. 
"Eventually, I want to be a captain, you know, work up to being a leader of the team," she said. " ... I almost want to get into the same role I did in high school where I worked my way up." 
Creachbaum will start work­ing her way up tonight, and then she can come home. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

~,,~W~iict'~.;;'.~;~"~~, ~;:¼;tFW~~f;J~t~:tW'' 


Friday, November 16, 2001 page 25 
The Observer . SPORTS 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Five sign on for next fall 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame volleyball team has announced the signing of five incoming freshmen for tlw 2002 season. Lauren Brewster, Kelly Burrell, Carolyn Cooper, Meg Henir.an and Lauren Kelbley have all signed letters of intent to enroll at Notre Dame in the fall of 


,. 
2002 and will make up the vol­

~ ' , . 
~-'!cl 
leyball class of' 2006.

}~ 
"We are very nxcited about 

~l"::\
~·. this class," head coach Debbie
'ff~ 
-~, Brown says. 
"Going into recruiting this year we thought W<~ were going to givP four scholarships. When the opportunity to sign this great class with five talented players presented itsnlf, it was· an opportunity we could not pass up. 
"All livn players will compln­ment each other very wnll and will add valuable depth to our team rn~xt year. They arc really going to help the competitive level of tlw team. I think this is one of tlw top fivP classes in thP nation." 
Laurnn Brewster played for Brentwood II igh School in Brentwood, Ttmn., and helpt>d tlrn team narn !'our state titles during lwr prnp carnPr. A 6­foot-:1 rnirldlr blorkrr, stw was nanwd most valuab!P player ol' the state tournanrnnt in 2000 and 2001, leading Brflntwood to an undefnated ri~cord during hPr junior and snnior seasons. Bn•wster also eanrnd the 2000 TennessPn mid-state playt\r of the v<'ar award and was 11c1mt>d thn (iatorade Playor of the Year from TPnnesen in 2001. 
"I.aurPn t'.atcht>s your eye bnraus1• ol' lwr ability to play high abovt• tlw net," Brown 

Sure, ,pme_day you'll change t,~e world. 
says. 
"She is a strong front row player and comes from a very successful program. She will combine with the other three middle blockers in the class to help us become an even stronger team at the net." 
Kelly Burrell is a 5-foot-11 setter from Xavier College Prep in Pheonix, Ariz., and, like many of her classmates, has earned multiple state titles while playing in a successful high school program. A first­team all-regional selection in 2000 and 2001, Burrell will bring a strong court presence to the Irish roster next season. 
"\Ve arc excited about Kelly's court personality and the set­ting skill she will bring to the team," Brown says. 
"She is a natural leader on thn court, which is an impor­tant part of being a setter. Kelly has very quick feet and uses her athleticism to keep the dcfonse off balance. She also understands the gam(~ very well and knows how to run an offonse." 
Carolyn Cooper continues the tradition of outstanding middle blockers the Irish have landnd from Texas. Currnnt senior and all-star nominee Malinda Goralski and 2000 graduatl~ Jo Jameyson were both from the same arca of Texas as Cooper. 
A 6-foot-3 middle block(~r. Cooper played for Luthnran South Academy in Houston, Tcxas, and was named the team ;\tlVP three times {1999­2001) while narning first-team all-statn honors during those thren snasons as well. 
"Carolyn, much like the other two middle blockers in the class. has a vnry strong net ganw and can jump well. This season, we have been training with just three middle blockers in practice. Carolyn and her classmates will add to the entire team's net game next year because they can block, hit and play high above the net." 

In an unusual twist. 5-foot-11 outside hitter Meg Henican had the opportunity to earn five state championships during her prep career. Henican played at Newman High School in New Orleans, La., a kindergarten through 12th grade school. and started on the varsity team for five seasons leading Newman to five consecutive state titles. She was a four-time MU All-American and finished her high school career as the Gatorade Player of the Year from Louisiana in 2001. 
"Meg is a good all-around player," Brown says. 
"She is an excellent passer and is very strong on defense. She also is a very hard hitter and she attacks with power. She played on a really strong high school team and will bring a wealth of experience to the team." 
Lauren Kelbley is a 6-foot-1 middle blocker from Bascaum, Ohio, and played at lfopewell­Loudon High School. She helped the team to the four­straight Ohio Division IV state titles during her career while earning all-confenmce, all-dis­trict and all-state honors at the end of each season. 
"Lauren has a very fast arm with the abiJity to terminate at the nnt and has been part of a winning tradition during her career," Brown says. 
"Last year she had the oppor­tunity to play in the back row and showed that she has solid all-around skills." 
e come to someday. 
City Year. an AmenCorps program, has an exciting opportunity for those December graduates who have an interest 1n being a social entrepreneur. Take advantage of this powerful opportunity to spend 6 months in service with City Year Detroit 
Spend 6 months (starting early January 2002 to mid June) in service to the community 
Earn $2362.50 educational award 

Receive a weekly living stipend and health benefits 
Work with diverse teams 

Receive the free coveted Timberland® uniform Tutor and mentor elementary and middle school students 
Develop and lead powerful after-school programs 
Please call 313-87 4-6825 if you ~ave any questions or visit our website http://www.cityyear org to download an application 
or 

apoly online through http://www.amencorps.org 
Application Deadline is December 15th. 
FOOTBALL 
Irish ready to sink Midshipmen 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
The Irish are bigger than Navy. They are stronger and they are faster. 
But that doesn't mean they will win. 
"Athlet­ically we are going to be more talent­ed than they are but they have a great scheme and they play 

hard," Irish Davie 
linebacker 
Rocky Boiman said. 
Although the Irish currently 
have a 37-gamc winning streak 
against the Midshipmen, the last 
two games in Notre Dame 
Stadium have been very close. In 
1999, Jarious Jackson completed 
a pass to .Jay Johnson with just 
40 seconds remaining to win the 
game 28-24. The 1997 game 
was also close as the 
Midshipmen out-rushed the Irish 
399 yards to 283 yards. But 
three Navy turnovers kept the , Irish in the game as they went 
on to win 2 l -1 7. 
Davie expects another tough 
game from the Midshipmen this 
weekend. 
"It's a cliche but it doesn't mat­
ter what the records are, doesn't 
really matter what happened 
during the season, didn't matter 
what happened the season 
before or what happens in the 
first half," he said. "This game, 
because of who we are playing, 
is a game that every year is 
going to be a challenge." 
Navy is famous for its rushing 
attack that relies heavily on a 
strong option quarterback. This 
year is no exception. Senior 
Brian Madden has run for 100 
yards in 10 of his 11 career 
starts. Currently he stands 12th in the nation in rushing per game with 126.7. 
"They have I think a really good quarterback," Davie said. "He's very strong, very.competi­tive." 
While Navy runs the •Same wishbone offense it has run in the past, there is a new coach at the helm. Rick Lantz replaced former coach Charlie Weatherbie on Oct. 28. Weatherbic had a 30-45 record at Navy but his team had lost seven straight games and 17 of their last 18 games before his dismissal. Lantz served as defen­sive coordinator before moving up to head coach. 
Navy's defense, however, has been one of its greatest weak­nesses, according to Davie. 
"Defensively, they've strug­gled," Davie said. "They've struggled a little more against the passing game than they have the running game. I think they're going to force us to throw the football." 
The Irish passing attack, how­ever, will be limited by an injury to starting flanker David Givens. The senior will miss Saturday's game. In his place, Davie expects freshman Carlos Campbell to step up but also believes sopho­mores Loren~o Crowford and Omar Jenkins will see playing time. 
"I think Carlos Campbell is maybe at the head. of that pool as far as guys that have an opportu­nity to step up," Davie said. 
Senior tailback Tony Fisher will also miss the final home game of his Irish career. Junior Julius Jones will take most of the snaps at tailback with freshman Ryan Grant and senior Terrance Howard also getting some snaps. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 

Pl.lNO TRIO IN G Pl.lNO T1uo IN A MINOII, 0~. 17 '41NOII, 0~. I !50 

_______ , 

______________________________.....,;,___________ 
Friday, November 16, 2001
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish open season without senior Humphrey 

By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 

After two dominating exhibi­tion outings led by forward Hyan Humphrey. the Irish are read­justing their game plan for tonight's season opener against the University of New Hampshire Wildcats. 
With Humphrey sidelined for two games due to an infraction of an NCAA outside competition rule, head coach Mike Brey knows his team will not be able to rely on Humphrey's domi­nance down low. 
said. "Certainly Matt [Carroll]. David [Graves]. Chris [Thomas] and Torrian [Jones] -which they have done in the exhibition -are going to have to score from the perimeter." 
The Irish have played in two exhibitions to prepare. for tonight's opener. And if their dominance in those two games are any indication, the \Vildcats will be in for a long night. Third­year coach Phil Rowe's team fin­ished last year's season with a 7­21 record and a ninth-place America East conference finish. 
The Wildcats did retain their 
leading scor­
er in Austin 

"I think it's a "I'm concerned about our Ganly (13.3 great chal~ ppg) and
numbers for Friday and
lenge," Brey 

their emo­
said. "We don't Monday especially as far 
tional leader, have the inside as our front line goes.,. senior cap­scoring threat as 
tain Chris 
much." 

· Brown, but
Mike Brey
Replacing 

have yet to Humphrey in head coach 
the starting line­up will be Jere Macura. 

'Tm a little concerned about our numbers for Friday and Monday especially as far as our front line goes," Brey said. 
Freshman Jordan Cornette will see some significant playing time in the senior tri-captain 's absence. 
"Jordan Cornette vvill come in and get some major minutes as a young guy," Brey said. "I think Jordan's condition is pretty good. I don't think he could play 35 minutes, but I think he could play 18-20 minutes for us tomorrow night. He could physically take that." 
But Brey has confidence that his outside shooters can make up for the lack of power down low. 
"We'll have to get a little bit more out of our perimeter," he 

•,r ' 
prove a pro­
gram turn­
around. 

Playing at the Joyce Center could also be a daunting task for the Wildcats, as the game kicks off just after the Notre Dame football pep rally. 
"About a year ago we started talking about this idea of playing after a pep rally. I was a little nervous and didn't know how it would take, but from what I understand, it's going to be a sellout, so I think its going to be an exciting way to kick off the season," Brey said. 
The game begins at 9 p.m. and fans must exit the Joyce Center after the pep rally concludes and then re-enter for the start of the basketball game. 
Contact Kerry Smith at ksmith2@nd.edu. 

TIM KACMAR/The Observer lrlsh senior David Graves dribbles downcourt during a recent exhibition game. Notre Dame opens the 2001-02 season tonight against New Hampshire. 
!1!ili!1,1!!!il;i 1Ii!i1!1i I!!! i:J!,:i;lil¦ililB8¦1lfl1lli:l';i 
: ·: :· -:-:··: ·: :;_ ·:(, ·: . ' ,·:_:-"··->:·:·._>: :{:.-:_:::·>···:)\\!()/>(·>·://::·:/\: 
.•·.··. ··.2..-:7.. · ._-. ,' .· .. '-.--:·. ·.•._::.:-.::-:-. ::•: :··::·. ::.-:-. :-,' :-m.••• ..·•.••.·. ·.·.·•.rn.•.·.•·•·.,·•· ..... ·.•••··.••·s···.•
' .....,\:_:/)::":: :-:·.. •·, .-1 ..••. ..·••.o .. •.<rnl.·•••·•.•••··.J.·•.,•·:.•.U.••··..···
..· ·•,· s.•····.•,·. 6.··.··, 8.•··.>.13.••··.·.•.e.·.·.•.•<l.•.···•.\r .•.s.••·.•.·••.e
,-· :-_-.. ::·;··-...-:-·-<:;:,:::·:,::::::.;:-/::::·?··-.. ··.:::•...·.· ..·. :'::>.·:·>:-: 
.. . ca 
:stUt.1§0ij rx1,~~£Jffi~~!liiij~$> \> 
· ••···••·•·••··•·••••··•••·•·•·•·•·••fj•••·•• ·••c•1••o·si••·••t~••••·i~•m••R••i•s••••••••·•••••··•·•·••••·••··•••••·•••······ 

:; ···•· ·.·{iif .. •·• 
GOING'/ 
•... .·••·· . . ··.·.. <: .( 

·-::: _..·.·.: .-. >··:·._ .··: .· ~ 0~ J"·u 0
~­
.. ····•..•.¥.·.••·••.·.••···. !.···•·•.•·· Y·i·•·•~.••··•·o•.••·•.·.·•n••·.•····.t•.•.•.·•·•:!:>·.··•.·...r.· ..·•.·."'.·.•.•.·•.~ .. ·.·. .·.··.<....r···
.•••.•t.·•.·.:.•.··.K· .. •··.•m•.•.· 
lVl_~l~ _, ~ tlA~K~'l_,tlALL 




r=r-i. ~ov. 1f3 
Cincinnati vs. Oakland 5:00 PM tgwt-..Mllllldil,;,.. 

#6ND vs. E. Illinois 7:30 PM 
Free Admission for first 300 Students @ Alumni Field! 

~CAA 2nd vound: ~un. ~ov. 1S 1:0() VM 

----­ -----------­ -----­ 
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  32 Engage in  51 "Imus in the  
1 Spy rings?  basketmaking?  Morning" airer  
10 Pet 14 Like strike­breakers 15 City of the Blessed Virgins 16 It helps you get the picture 17 Hardly refined 18 _ polloi 19 Where a needle is usually put? 21 Disapproving  35 New member of la familia 36 Diplomat Mesta 37 Mouths, zoologically 38 Ding-dongs, e.g. 39 Actress Swenson 40 Ding Dongs, e.g. 42 Piece advocates?: Abbr.  54 Pilothouse abbr. 55 Reply to "Who's therer 57 Get one's bearings 61 Jazz singer Jones et al. 62 Folded 63 Spate 64 Quality of revenge? DOWN  
syllable  43 Gives advance  1 Ways to go  
22 Wooded  warming  2 Representative  
26 Golfer Mattiace  44 No soothing  3 Online marketing  
27 You may thank  sound  4 With 45-Across,  
God tor it: Abbr.  45 See 4-Down  producer of  
28 "It's dark in here!"  46 Woman's shoe feature  small acorns 5 & 6 OS's cry  
31 Managed  50 Ho's hanger  7  Lamont (MSingin' in the  
Rain" role)  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  8 Years on end  
9 Crawl Puzzle by Elizabeth C. Gortkl  
_...,,,,,_..,.  10 "Yes" follower 30 It includes 47 "Hard Cash" 56 Start of a  
11 Slob's opposite Numbers novelist Chinese game  
......,.__....  12 Like life and 32 Longer and 48 Pot starters 58 "Les nuits  
health th'nner 49 Matches d'_"  
13 Good flavor ......+-+---+-""" 15 Crowd creator ....+...+-+.!""I 20 Two of diamonds?  33_Marie, noted shipwreck of circa 1700 34 Players .for  52 Samuel Adams, e.g. 53 Movie  59 Fruitcake 60 Big inits. in cable  
23 Solo part in  prayers  
Benjamin  -35 Brute  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle  
Britten's  38 Election figs.  are available by touch-tone phone: 
"Lachrymae"  40 Ladies of Sp.  1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).  
_._...,_,._-'-_. 24 Moliere play part  41 Krazy_  Annual subscriptions are available for the  
~~~~"!"4 25 "Bad idea"  43 Quince and  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
_......___.__.,__.  29 "It's a mystery"  others  years: 1~888-7-ACROSS.  


Friday, November 16, 2001 
The Observer . TODAY page 27 

.... 
RYAN

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


FOXTROT BILL AMEND 
I DON'T SEE WHY 'YOU HAVE To MAKE IT "HARR'Y POTTER" VERSUS "LoRD oF THE R1N&S," J'ASoN. \  THEY'RE BootcS AND Mo\11ES, NOT SPORTS )TEAMS!,____ 1 I  CAN'T WE AS FANS J'UST ACKNOWLEDGE OUR DtFFER­ING PREFERENCES AND co-ExIST IN MUTUAL RESPECT AND NON­DEMEANING HARMoN'Y?  AND I THOUGHT Ho8B1TS Ll\/ED IN A FANTASY WORLD. I  DON'T MAl<E ME ZAP 'YOU. I  

,.. 
The guy on the right figures correctly 


Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Connnunity. 
Join the n1ore than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two can1puses. Please cotnplete the accon1pa­. nying forn1 and 1nail it today to receive The 
Observer in your hornc. 
Make chec~s payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Nan1e 
Address 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON  time-being. 00000  
THIS DAY: Terry Labonte, Marg  VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):  
Helgenberger, Lisa Bonet, Martha  Mellow out and refuse to get  
Plimpton, Diana Krall  wrapped up in other people's  
Happy Birthday: Keep your  melodrama. Follow your own path  
personal and professional lives  to prepare for whatever you want  
separate to achieve yourJ~oals this  to do next. Your composure will  
year. Both areas are equally impor­ help calm others. 00  
tant and need to be nurtured.  LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't  
Organiz.e your time wisely so you  push your luck with those in influ­ 
don't miss out on any opportuni­ ential positions. Make sure your  
ties. If you are well-informed and  legal papers are in proper order  
astute, you will do well. Your num­ and updated. The sooner you clear  
bers: 9, 12, 14., 27, 31, 42  things up, the better you will feel.  
ARIES (March 21-April 19):  0000  
You may need to scramble to tie up  SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):  
loose ends before the weekend.  Do something entertaining and  
Paying attention to the details and  enjoyable today, but don't go over­ 
meeting all your deadlines would  board in spending. If you decide to  
impress the people who om influ­ join a chili, pick one that isn't exor­ 
ence your future. A promotion  bitant. 000  
could be forthcoming. 00000  SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec Zl):  
TAURUS (A_pril 20-May 20):  Make plans, or you will become  
You are in a high cycle for travel,  bored and restless today. Travel or  
education and creative endeavors,  intellectual pursuits will provide  
but will have to be extremely care-­ stimulation and excitement. If no  
ful with money and investments.  one will join you, go alone and  
Plan an inexpensive but education­ meet new people. 000  
al and inspiring trip. 000  CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):  
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Be  You should be smoothing out any  
compassionate and considerate,  imperfections in your ideas and  
and you will get along well with  waiting for the best time to present  
others. The more honest you are,  them. Be assured that someone will  
the better the resulls. You can make  try to take credit for your work.  
changesby being upfront. 000  000  
CANCER (June 21-July 22):  AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):  
Choose someone to spend time  Monitor your budget carefully to  
with today or you may become  avoid unneressary stress. If some­ 
caught in the middle of an argu­ one wants to borrow or entice you  
ment that has nothing to do with  into expensive entertainment,  
you. Taking sides will make mat­ dor't be embarrassed to say you  
ters worse. Do what you enjoy.  can't afford it. 0000  
000  PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):  
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Plan a  Don't say anything you might  
fun-filled day and an entertaining  regret later. Misinterpretation will  
evening away from people who  leave you in a difficult position.  
are argumentative or in a bad  You will enjoy large groups where  
rrameofmind.Surroundyourself  you can listen, learn and meet new  
with movers and shakers for the  friends. 00  

Birthday Baby: You are a wanderer and an adventurer. You will always be where the action is and gravitate toward the fast lane. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 


r"\l:HE

Campus Sports Campus Sports
vnSERVER 

. M~n's Basketball, p. 26 
. Men's Swimming, p. 24 
. 
ND Women's Volleyball, p. 25 . SMC Swimming, p. 23 

. 
Football p. 25 . SMC Basketball , p. 19 


Friday, November 16, 2001 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Staying close to home 
. South Bend's Batteast to start at forward for Irish 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 

Having lived his whole life in South Bend, Wayne Batteast naturally grew to become a Notre Dame fan. He attended football games during the fall at the nearby University and bas­ketball games during the win­ter. 
But Wayne and his wife Margaret never realized the special meaning Notre Dame would someday have for them. Their daughter Jacqueline Batteast should start Notre Dame's regular season home opener against Valparaiso on Sunday. 
"To have my daughter actual­ly out there playing is unreal," Wayne Batteast said. 'Tm very proud of her and she's worked real hard to get there.'' 
Jacqueline Batteast earned her fair share of honors and lofty expectations before ever taking the court in a Notre Dame uniform. After a senior season at South Bend's Washington High School in which she averaged 26 points and 16 rebounds per contest, Jacqueline Batteast was named to Parade Magazine's first-team girls All-America team. 
see BATTEAST/page 22 

Irish forward Jacqueline Batteast (left) drives to the hoop during a recent exhibition game. Batteast was named the Big East Preseason Rookie of the Year. Saint Mary's freshman for­ward Emil~ Creachbaum (right} takes a shot in a recent practice. 
. Marian star Emily Creachbaum brings Belles size, skill 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 


It's a situation where every­body wins. A basketball team gets a promising new star, a player finds the best of both worlds in her new college and her parents can still have the pleasure of her company at Sunday dinner. 
When freshman forward Emily Creachbaum was decid­ing where she would spend the next four years of her life, she had a choice in front of her. After being scouted by the University of North Caroline Pembroke, a Division II pro­gram, DePauw and Saint Mary's, she had to draw the line somewhere. 
"It wa!;! between DePauw and Saint Mary's and it just came down to choosing between the two," Creachbaum said. 
From there, the decision was a simple one. 
Staying close to home 

Saint Marv's offered the Elkhart native everything she wanted -a basketball program with a future, a solid academic reputation, a quiet campus to study and a place close enough to home that she could drop by 
see BELLES/page 24 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish host NCAA tourney game tonight 
ByJOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women soccer team's season can be divided into three phases: the regular season, the Big East tourna­ment and the NCAA tournament. So far the Irish have completed the first two phases in impressive fashion by winning both the Big East Mid-Atlantic Division regular season title and their seventh­straight Big East tournament title with a 2-1 victory against West Virginia last Sunday. 
Now the Irish are preparing to enter the most critical phase of their season as they open up first round NCM tourna­ment action against Eastern Illinois on Friday night at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. With an intense week of practice behind them, the Irish are excited to begin their quest to return to the Final Four, and an opportunity to win the ultimate prize, the NCAA championship. · 
'Tm very excited for the NCAA tourna­ment to begin," said Irish midfielder and senior captain Mia Sarkesian. "This is what we have been waiting for all sea­son. This is why we put in all of those hard practices at the beginning of the summer for a chance to compete in the NCAA tournament at the end of the sea­son." 
The NCAA tournament is about responding to pressure. There is absolutely no margin for error. If a team loses, its season is over. 
While the Irish struggled at the begin­ning of the season to develop team chem­istry and at times played down to the level of their lesser opponents, they have always saved their best games this sea­son for their toughest competition and their best moments for the most crucial times. 
The Irish have responded well to pres­sure all season winning four overtime contests during the regular season. The Irish's mid-season victory against No. 4 Nebraska coupled with their victories last week against Boston College and West Virginia are a testament to the Irish's ability to rise to the occasion. 
"This season has been different from my past three years here," said Sarkesian. "We struggled early in the season this year, but we have been play­ing very well lately. I think we're peak­ing at the perfect time. We had our best week of practice all year. I think we're extremely focused and ready to play." 
Preparing for the opening rounds of the NCAA tournament is difficult for any coaching staff because of the fear of the unknown. The Irish know very little about Eastern Illinois. In fact, they shared zero common opponents all sea­son. 

While Coach Randy Waldrum and his staff have been diligently preparing a scouting report for their opening round opponent, Waldrum believes his team must be more concerned with executing their own game plan rather than stop­ping Eastern Illinois'. 
"We really don't know that much about them. They have a forward named Beth Lleson who scored 18 goals for them so our defense will be put to the test," said Waldrum. "Friday night, we'll try to stick with what we do best. I don't anticipate us changing our lineup of four defenders, three midfielders, and three forwards."' 
"Obviously in the playoffs, you have to do a few things differently to counter the 
see IRISH/page 20 
. 
ND Volleyball at Big East Tournament, Sat.-Sun. 

. 
Hockey at Western Michigan, Tonight, 7 p.m.


SPORTS 
. Men's Soccer vs. St. John's , Tonight, 5p.m.AT AGLANCE . Football vs. Navy, Saturday, 2:30 p.m. 


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 16, 2001 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Championship clash features new teams 
more Mark Ryan. 
By PHIL KOESTERER 

"I have total confidence in 
Sports Writer 

Mark's abilities," said Plumby, lofty praise, considering that he 
A new champion will be called Gagliardi "one of the hard­crowned Sunday in Notre Dame est hitting, toughest players on Stadium, and it may signal the the team." dawn of a new era in men's inter­Nonetheless, it is Siegfried's hall football. seniors that lead the team. 
This championship game will "Our seniors have been playing be the first in Siegfried's history, football for a long time," said and Dillon hasn't been in the Plumby. "[Smith, Pete Aguiar, Stadium in recent memory. Eddy Vulin, and I] have experi­
The No. 2 Ramblers bring a ence in big games and [we] know fearsome offense that has what it takes to win." outscored opponents 98-13 in the Despite both teams posting six games leading up to the unbeaten records thus far, Dillon championship. At the core of this remains the team to beat. The unit are senior quarterback Rob dominant Big Red offense is led Plumby and senior running back by Odom, who can both scramble Travis Smith, who know they and pass for touchdowns easily. have to play their best game of His favorite targets include the season to beat the top-seeded sophomore Rick Hasty, junior Big Red. Brian Meyer and freshman Kevin 
"We're going to have to be even McCarthy. more intense than we have been "He's [McCarthy] a freshman in past games," said Plumby. and he's one ofthe more valuable "They're so fired up when they players on the team," said come out. We have to match Odom. "He plays both ways and them." he's a leading contributor on both 
Dillon senior captain and quar­sides of the ball." terback Tayt Odom acknowledges Dillon has already given ample Siegfried's offensive strength. evidence that they can and will The Dillon's '8-0 win against apparent slow-down from Dillon's years, and we are definitely excit­"We expect them to be the best play like champions. Their Alumni last week is not represen­offense. ed about it," said Odom. "Notoffense we've seen all year," said defense held defending champion tative of their actual offensive "We don't take those numbers many people get to play in theOdom. "We're definitely not Keenan scoreless most of the production, because the Big Red as a lull," said Smith. "They are a Stadium; but you can't get tooexpecting to just roll in there and game in a convincing 28-7 win had two touchdowns called on machine." caught up in it." 
win. We have to bring it up a earlier in the regular season. 
penalties. With the final game looming Dillion and Siegfried face off atlevel and do it better." "Our defense has been pretty "I don't think our physical Sunday, both teams are proud 12:30p.m.
..,.._,.,,~ ..

One aspect of the Rambler consistent, but we haven't played intensity caused the penalties [in that they have finally made it tooffensive that the Big Red defense an offense like Dillon's," said that game]," said Odom. "We just Notre Dame Stadium to play formay seek to exploit is the loss of Siegfried co-captain Smith. "They weren't playing smart football." the interhall championship. 
senior full back Joe Gagliardi, have been dominant and I still Contact Phil Koesterer at 
Siegfried isn't fooled by the "This has been our goal for four 
I

who will be replaced by sopho-consider them the team to beat.'' pkoester@nd.edu. 

# 

Title games nothing new for Dillon QB 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 

Playing a championship game inside a huge stadium with a perfect season on the line is nothing new for Dillon's senior quarterback Tayt Odom. In fact, he may even be getting used to it. 
When No. 1 Dillon faces No. 2 Siegfried in the men's interhall foot­ball championship game on Sunday, Odom will be playing in his second championship game in four years. The first was the 1998 Indiana Class A state championship game played at the RCA Dome where Odom led Pioneer High School to a 49-21 victory against Knightstown High School to cap off a 15-0 season. 
During his senior year of high school, Odom played in the Indiana Coaches Top 50 All-Star game, earned All-State quarterback honors and fin­ished third in the voting for Indiana's Mr. Football as well 
The similarities between Odom's high school team and Dillon's team this year are astonishing. 
"My freshman and sophomore year in high school and here, we were no good," said Odom. "Junior year in high school, we turned it around little bit and lost in sectionals and then senior year we went 15-0. 
"Here, last year we went undefeated throughout the season, got the No. 1 seed and then got beat in the semifi­nals. This year we're not quite [cham­pions] yet, but we hope we can get to where we want to be." 
Perhaps the reason Dillon has won, much like Pioneer high school did, is because Odom implemented the same offense. the wing-T, into Dillon's game plan before his junior year. Using the wing-T set, Odom piloted a Pioneer offense that averaged more than 300 yards rushing and 48 points per game. 
The wing-T offense, similar to Navy's offensive attack, uses forma­tions with three running backs and an option quarterback and runs counters and triple options. 
"After our sophomore year, we basi­cally decided we wanted to run the wing-T and that decision kind of put me in charge," said Odom. "A couple of guys had run a few wing-T plays in high schools, but in my high school we were hardcore Delaware Wing-T. We were running it by the book and what it says was the Bible and that's what we follow." 
So Odom went home, talked to his old high school coaches, got his old high school play hook and made copies for his Dillon teammates. Knowing that a whole new offense would take time to learn, Dillon began practicing last spring. 
"The reason [for practicing in the spring] was basically because we knew it was going to take a lot time and practice and it was going to be signifi­cantly different from what most people were used to doing from their high school," said Odom. 
Odom believes that Dillon's running backs and offensive line have adjusted well to the new offensive scheme. 
"In high school we had four guys [in the backfield] that could run the ball," said Odom. "I think we have kind of the same thing this year. Our line in high school and in this league was smaller and quicker also, and that's what we want." 
Now the Odom-directed Dillon offense uses the wing-T set to confuse and deceive opponents the same way Odom's high school team did on their way to the state title four years ago. This year, Odom hopes a champi­onship happens again. And while Odom runs the offense, he knows the whole team has helped Dillon reach the title game. 

"Our team went to the state champi­onship," said Odom. "Our team is going to the Stadium here. It's not because I'm out there playing. I've just been fortunate to be part of two good teams." 
While Odom may stay humble, his teammates know just how important he is to the team. 

"He calls all the shots and we all look to him to make the big plays and he comes through," said Dillon sopho­more tight end Rick Hasty. "He's big on offense and defense and he's the focal point of our team." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 





Friday, November 16, 2001 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Lewis, Welsh have different approaches 
Schlosser follows in sister's footsteps 
U FY-MARI ARN UL A member of the No. 1-seeded Whirlwinds carries the ball in earli­er this season. This Is Welsh's third straight championship bid. 
/ ,f 


ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer Senior katle Schlosser carries the ball In an outing last sea­son. This year, she hopes to lead her team to a title. 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
Nobody enjoys it. Musicians, 
athletes and actors all would 
prefer to skip it. That's right, 
the dreaded "p" word. 
Practice. 
This year's women's inter­hall football championship game features No. 1 Welsh and No. 2 Lewis. These two teams exhibit unique practice styles that are fit for each squad. While each team has taken different approaches on the practice field, they've both arrived at their ultimate destination -Notre Dame Stadium. 
With the Whirlwinds mak­ing their third consecutive appearance in the champi­onship game, one would think the practice routine has not changed much. However, according to junior captain Vanessa Lichon, this year's practices are actually a little easier than previous years. 
"In the past, I think they were more intense," she said. "It all depends on the given day. if the coaches are in a good mood, then they are easier on us. If they are in a bad mood, we may be run­ning a few more drills that usual." 
The Whirlwinds hold two practices a week and also arrive at their game an hour early. They spend about six 
By DAVE COOK 
Sports Writer 
Katie Schlosser put it sim­
ply: "I always follow in my 
sister's footsteps." 
Whether it was playing sports, choosing a college, or studying abroad, Meg Schlosser has always been the strongest example for her younger sister, Katie. 
Five years ago, Meg played for Lewis in the interhall football championship game. Katie, only a senior in high school at the time, came to see her sister play. In fact, watching her sister play in that game ended up being part of the reason Katie came to Notre Dame. 
"I was surprised at the enthusiasm this school had for interhall sports," Katie said. "There were chicken feet all over the sidewalks, and a pep rally for the game. Suprisingly, it really made me want to come to Notre Dame." 
Katie had been recruited to Boston College for field hock­ey, but she changed her mind after watching Meg play interhall football. · 
"I saw Meg was having a lot of fun," she said. "I real­ized I didn't want to dedicate myself to one sport." 
The following year, Katie came to Notre Dame, and ironically enough, she was randomly placed in Lewis Hall with her sister. Meg and Katie had the opportunity to play interhall football and soccer on the same team. 
hours on the practice field 
every week. 
After some routine stretch­
ing, the coaches run various 
running drills to get the team 
loose. Then, Welsh breaks off 
into their offensive and defen­
sive units. 
"After the basic stuff, we break into the separate units and work on what we've [coaches] planned on for that day's practice," said Welsh coach Joe Blaney. · 
The units rejoin and start practicing plays against each other. Blaney and the other coaches work on what they feel will work the best against that week's opponent. 
"We end our practices with a scrimmage," said Blaney. "Sometimes the coaches call the plays, but other times we let the girls do it themselves." 
The Whirlwinds don't -take it easy on each other in the scrimmages. 
"We go all out in the scrim­rn ages," said Lichon. "The offense is trying to beat the defense and the defense is trying to beat the offense." 
But while Welsh has a much more regimented, intense practice schedule, Lewis adopts a much more laid back approach. 
Attitude at the Chicks' prac­tices is pretty loose. The play­ers and coaches have estab­lished a relationship by being together for the past four sea­sons. 
"We played on the same 
teams in high school." said 
Katie. "It was weird how it 
carried over into college." 
On the interhall football 
team, Katie became a wide 
receiver -the same position 
Meg played. And like most 
siblings, Katie and Meg had 
their own little rivalry on the 
field battling for playing 
time. 
"We had our own rivalry, altho~gh I was starting to overtake her," Katie laughed. "She still thinks its funny." 
When Meg was a senior, she played on the football team with eleven other seniors and a senior coach­ing staff -a tight-knit group of friends that have been with Lewis football for four year. That same year, with twelve freshmen -including Katie -the seniors recruited a group of freshman coaches to maintain the strong team chemistry. 
"My sister and her friends lived in College Park [when she was a senior]. We idol­ized them," Katie said. " Now my friends and I are living in College Park. It's come full circle." 
Katie and the rest of that freshman class have succeed­ed in carrying on that spirit started by Meg's class. All 12 freshmen who started playing three years ago are still on the team, working under a staff that had coached with them all the way. 
"Our class and my sister's class are really remarkable," said Katie. "There's some­
"We are all good friends and realize it is for fun," said Lewis coach Blake Kirkman. "We [the coaches] are not on a power trip. We are influ­enced by what the players want to do and it's worked." 
Lewis captain Caitlin Murray believes that the makeup of the practices and team stems from the core of 14 seniors. 
"We have been friends since freshman year," she said. "The relationship between the players and coaches really determines the character of the practices." 
But it has also helped that several team members have returned from study abroad programs. As a result, the Lewis Chicks are playing in the championship game for the first time in five years. 
In the past, the two systems have yielded a variety of results with Welsh winning two straight titles and Lewis enjoying successes and fail­u-res. This year, however, both systems achieved their desired results. 
"They know what a good season is like," said Kirkman. "They know what a bad sea­son is like. This year, the sys­tem perfected itself." 
Welsh takes on Lewis at 
11 :30 a.m. Sunday. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 
thing special about these 
classes." 
When Meg left, Katie start­ed taking on leadership roles of her own. Whether it was giving motivational speeches or just showing up to prac­tice every day, Katie's pres­ence is felt by the whole team. 

"Last Sunday Katie ran the Chicago marathon. That "' same night she drives back to Notre Dame and shows up for practice," said Lewis head coach Blake Kirkman. "She had to be driven to the field so that she wouldn't have to walk the whole way. She didn't practice, but she was still half ready to play." 
"She gives a lot of motiva­tional speeches," said team­mate Kara Helmig. "She's very energized." 
When Katie's team takes the field on Sunday, they will be carrying with them the spirit Meg's team brought into the championship game. 
"A lot of the traditions carry over," said Katie. "We rip up a big yellow sheet and wear the pieces around our heads. And we have a giant chicken head we are bringing back from five years ago." 
Meg and her friends were the ones that made that chicken head and brought it into the Stadium five years ago while Katie watched from the stands. Now it's time for Katie and her friends bring it into Notre Dame Stadium. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 


f 
J 
\ 
( 
~ 
I 
I 
\ 
.I 


; 

• .•• .· ; . • •,>t)••a 
B'ERNAllDAKATU p(t:~t•"ER1C 'NELSON pg. 
10 


12 

,~ .... 
:../~~~, 
·-~~ 
1?1 MMV o•, lit pg., 4~:, 

1

iEFF CAMPBELl,iJiJ~?~ ..· ,,. , 

·• 

~lKE Kl.:OCKNER pg. 12 IRIS MAHONEY pg. 15 
LEE 2-~ 

page2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 16, 200 l 
Wa1k-ons play football for the ~e ofplaying 
A couple days ago at prac­tice, Bob Davie looked toward the guys playing opposite the first string. 
The scout team. The walk­ons. The 
guys who never play in a game. The guys who get the snot kicked out of 

them in 
Andrew Soukup
practice day in and day 
Associate
out. The 
Sports Editor 
guys who spend four years of their life toiling on the football field, getting run over by the freight train known as the first string offense or getting smacked around by the defensive line and all they have to show for it is a lot of bruises. 
"I was thinking to myself, 'You guys realize what's com­ing right now? You have probably 150, maybe 200 straight wishbone plays full speed. We're not tackling, but you're getting bounced around,"' Davie said. 
Basically, Davie thought they were crazy. 
And he's right. They are. 
Why would you want to spend four hours a day learn­ing the opponents' plays? And just when you think you have it down, another week rolls around and you get to learn about another oppo­nent. And another. And another. And all the time you're getting beaten to a pulp because there aren't any backups. 

The only possible reward you have is that you might have a chance to dress for a home game. Then, after hell freezes over, you just might be able to actually play a cou­ple plays on the field in garbage time. 
Why do they do it? Because football is in their blood, plain and simple. 
They're not in it for glory. They're not in it for fame. They're not in it for prestige. 
They want to play football for Notre Dame. 
"It's a hard thing to sacri­fice and not be selfish," said Chad DeBolt, a walk-on who earned playing time in spe­cial teams. "Those guys exemplify college sports." 
Day after day, practice after practice, they learn the other team's plays, look at cards telling them where to stand and get beaten up. 
And they don't care a nit. In fact, they love it. 
They'll laugh it off when they say they have to go to football practice and you think they're talking about interhall football. They'll smile and nod when you chant "Rudy, Rudy" after you hear they're a walk-on. They'll never brag that they're on the team, they'll leave that up to their friends. 
Instead, guys like Ryan Krueger and Mike Klockner 
will go out to the practice 
field and warm up the same 
way as Carlyle Holiday and 
Anthony Weaver. If you ask 
them what it is like to be a 
walk-on and look at them 
with an awe-struck look, 
they'll say they're just regular 
members of the team. 
"I give them a hell of a lot . 

of credit," said Rocky 
Boiman. "They aren't getting 
school-paid but they come 
out here and do the same 
things we do. I really have a 
tremendous amount of 
respect for them." 
Don't try to compare Rudy 

to any other walk-on. The 
film Rudy made the remark­
able story of Daniel Ruttiger 
public in households across 
the nation and gave the walk­
on tradition at Notre Dame 
legendary status. While 
Ruttiger's story is remark­
able, each member of the ·current crop of walk-ons 
each has his own story that's 
just as compelling as 
Ruttiger's. 
There's Bernard Akatu, a 

Nigerian native who lived in 
South Bend for two years 
when he was seven and fell in 
love with Notre Dame. 
There's Chad DeBolt, whose 
best sport isn't even football 
-he's a standout lacrosse 
player and led the Irish to a 
Final Four berth last season. 
There's Jeff Campbell, who 
transferred from Holy Cross 
and balances football and Air 
Force ROTC. There's Eric 
Nelson, who got smacked 
upside the head with a base­
ball bat and suffered brain damage weeks before coming to Notre Dame. 
Don't try telling them they won't get in a game, either. If you tried telling Matt Sarb when he walked onto the team as a freshman that he was wasting his time and he wouldn't play, he would either laugh in your face or shrug his shoulders. Before you turnod around, he'd be determined to prove you wrong. Now, four years later, the guys he's plowing over on kickoffs probably don't even know he's a walk-on. 
It's gritty, determined mindsets like Sarb's that help the walk-ons earn the undy­ing respect of both coaches and scholarship players. 
"I have tremendous respect for them," said Davie. "Those guys are unbelievable." 
"I always try to give props to the scout team," said Tyreo Harrison. "It takes a lot to come out and do what they do. They have the same acad­emic load and they are volun­teering to come out here and work so-hard with no chance of getting a scholarship ­and they do it anyway." 
Call them crazy. Give them strange looks. Wonder why they like getting leveled day after day. They don't care. 
They love playing football. They are playing football. And nothing else matters. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. The opin­ions ofthis column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
game h)'pe 

Bob Davie Irish head coach 
"'Its a hard thing to sacri­fice and not be selfish. Those guys exemplify college sports. ,, 

Rocky Boiman Irish linebacker 
"'/ always try to give props to the scout team. It takes a lot to come out and do what they do.,, "/ have tremendous respect for [the walk­ons]. Those guys are unbelievable. •• 


Chad DeBolt Irish linebacker 
'1 give them a hell ofa lot of credit. I have tremendous respect for them.,, 


Tyreo Harrison Irish linebacker 

Domino's Pizza Team Notre Dame 
1627 S Edison Ave South Bend, IN 
2710300 
Campus Special 
Order One Large One Topping Plzza 
With Your Choice of : Cheezy Bread Twisty Bread Cinnastix 2 L Coke 
Offer Valid until March 30 / 02, Driver's Carry Less Then $20.00 
Let's Go Irish 



r 
_,..,,,... 
, ' 'I':: \,,. .:.., "• 
...... C:..J-' . / 

Friday, November 16, 2001 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
MATT SARB 

The power of three words 
Sarb followed family legacy and earned starting spot on kickoff coverage team 
looked anywhere else. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 

"It wasn't that it was expect­Associate Sports Editor 
ed, but it's a general consensus among most of my cousins that Three words transformed a we all want to come here," he · dream into a reality. Three said. "We all have just grown up words silenced doubters and watching it, loving it, and wanti­caused jubilant family celebra­ng to be a part of it. My dad tions. forced me to apply to other 
Th r c e schools. I applied to three w o r d s knowing this was my only proved Matt choice." Sarb right. But Sarb didn't just want to 
While 10 attend Notre Dame for academ­players on ic reasons. As long as he can N o t r e remember, Sarb wanted to play Dame's football for the Irish -some­kickoff cov­thing he got from his father, erage pre­Pat, who played cornerback for pared to the Irish and was one of the take the ·field just seconds after players who gave up their jer­Julius Jones had returned a seys so Rudy and three other kickoff for a touchdown, seniors could dress for the 197 5 Courtney Watson was surround­season finale. ed by trainers on the sideline. "I lived my whole life trying to Sarb, Watson's backup, stood by imitate what my dad has done," anxiously, wondering if Watson Sarb said. "He's been my would be able to go on the field. biggest role model, and football 
He couldn't. was one more thing to becom­
As soon as the trainers told ing closer to him." him Watson was winded and would sit out, Sarb raced over 
Rudy
to former Notre Dame sec­He doesn't like having his

ondary and special teams coach 

football career compared to
Jnrry Rosberg with the news. 

Rudy, Notre Dame's most
Rosberg turned to Sarb and 

famous walk-on. He'd ratheruttered three short words. 
prove he's got his own story.
"You got it." 

"It's good that they know
Sarb raced onto the field. AH what we go through, but at thehe had wanted was one play. 

same time, it's hard to be com­
All he had wanted was one 

pared to someone else constant­opportunity. All he wanted was ly," Sarb said. "Instead of repli­one chance. 
cating what someone else did,IIH got it. 
you want to be yourself and be"I was trying to block it all out your own person."
and focus on what I had to do," 
But while Sarb has estab­
he said. "I had to hit the wedge. 

lished a new standard for Notre
Because I was on the kickoff But when he was called into for­"I made it a point to beat the Sheridan said. "He made an
Dame walk-ons -going far 
team I wanted to make sure I mer Notre Dame coach Bob scholarship players down the impression, and hasn't relin­
beyond anything Hudy ever
knew what I had to do, so all Chmiel's office, he was still field," he said. "I asked Coach quished the spot yet."
accomplished, there are too
week I watched kickoff film. I shocked by the good news. Rosberg to look at some film Last year, Hosberg called the
many parallels between Hudy's
knew my job was to hit the "I went to coach's oflice and and hoped I could make in on first player down the field on a
story and Sarb's story to ignore. 
wedge." he said, 'I need you to fill out the scholarship squad. I made . kickoff the tip of the spear.
"Everybody thought l wasn't
Sarb didn't just hit the wedge some papers before you're on third team, and by persistence Because Sarb was consistently
going to make it," he said in.
of Nebraska defenders. Jle lev­the team.' The reality just all and hard work I made it up to the first player to hit an oppo­
Rudy-esqc fashion. "Nobody
eled it. After the Irish took a hit at once," he said. "I was try­first team." nent, Rosberg started calling
believed it. It's a lofty goal, it is
timeout because they only had ing to sign my name, and my him "Tip of the Spear" -a
hard to obtain, but I think I'm 
ten men on the field, Setta hand was shaking. Right after nickname people still call Sarb
able to persist and achieve it." Making an impact
boomed a giant kick deep in that, I went and talked to my today. And while Sarb's role on
Like Rudy, none of Sarb's Sarb's hard work paid off
Nebraska territory. Sarb was cousin and called my parents the kickoff team this year is to
friends really thought he could tremendously. Not only did he
the first Irish player down the and I was still all jittery. I went beat the kickoff protection
play football at Notre Dame. earn a spot on the starting kick­
field, and crushed not one, but to the dining hall and took a dif­downfield, he still fondly looks
Like Hudy, Sar-b wouldn't take off return unit, he also distin­
two Nebraska blockers. ferent backpack out -a com­back on the days when he could 
no for an answer. Like Rudy, guished himself as an emotional
He hasn't left the field since. pletely different color." simply level other people.
Sarb wears No. 45. And like leader.
Although Sarb made the team, " I'm not hitting the wedge as
Hudy, Sarb's first play was on a "Matt is a great guy," said
he had a long way to go before · much, which is fine with me,"
History coverage unit. Notre Dame graduate assistant
he made it onto the field. He he said. "My goal is to beat the
There are so many connec­He certainly faced plenty of John DeFilippo, who works with 
was kicked out of his first prac­front five guys down the field. I
tions between Sarb and Notre adversity. In high school, he the scout team defense. "He is a
tice because he didn't have the still kind of miss it, I liked doing
Dame it's almost ridiculous. broke his leg and doctors told leader back there. The kids
right papers filled out. When he it."
His great-great-great grandfa­him his football days were over. really look up to Sarb because
reported with the scout team It's been a long road for Sarb. 
ther helped build the Main "The doctors told me the not only is he a leader on the
defense, he walked over to the But he's always known what
Building in the 1870s. His great break was so bad, I couldn't scout team but he also gets
scholarship defense backs unit he's wanted to do. From the
grandparents lived next door to play," he said. "I didn't have a playing time on Saturday."
instead of going with the rest of minute he first set foot on the
legendary coach Knute Rockne chance. But even before I said "He's a guy that gets everyone 
the walk-ons to the scholarship campus in 1992, he knew he
and when Rockne converted to anything, my mom told them, fired up about it," said Rocky
receivers. was going to attend Notre
Catholicism, they were his spon­·'There's no way that's going to Boiman. "On the sidelines, right 
"Wh ' • the , Dame. From the minute he
en you ff, m,w guy,

sors. His great uncle and aunt keep him down. He's going to before the kickoff team goes
the coaches don't trust you," broke his leg, he knew he was
purchased the home Hockne play at Notre Dame." out, here's jumping around get­
Sarb said. "You try to get in a going to get healthy so he could
built and his great uncle still ting everyone excited." 
drill, and they kick you out and play football at Notre Dame.
lives in the home. After the Nebraska game,
Walking-on 
put an older guy in. I talked to From the minute he put a shak­
In all, Sarb's grandfather, Sarb never gave up his spot on
Sarb arrived at Notre Dame one of the guys, and he said go ing hand to a piece of paper, he
father, six uncles, two brothers, the field. He started on special
with every intention of playing out there and keep getting knew he was going to step onto
a sister and six or seven cousins teams the rest of the year. His
football. While most of his kicked out and letting the the football field in front of
-. even he can't remember how only job was to run down the
classmates spent freshman ori­coaches know you want to be a 80,000 fans. 
many -have graduated from field and hit the wedge as hard
entation meeting new people, he part of this." It didn't matter how long it
Notre Dame. Two of his cousins as he could.
was out at football practice talk­Sarb did just that. And when it ·took.
are presently enrolled, and his "That's what I had to do," he
ing with coaches and seeing if . he was he
didn't look like he'd be able to All knew that
younger sister hopes to attend said. "I was on a kamikaze mis­
he could walk on to the football 
move up to the scholarship would make it.
Notre Dame. sion every time you get on the
team. He showed them a tape of 
defense, his father suggested a
Sarb said he never was kickoff."
his high school games. In Sarb's 
switch to special teams. It ended
expected to come to Notre · "He had an opportunity a year Contact Andrew Soukup at 
mind, there wasn't really any up being the perfect advice. 
Dame. But he never really ago and took advantage of it," asoukup@nd.edu.
doubt he would make the team. 





page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 16 2001 
TIMMY O'NEILL 

Message from the heart 
Inspired by letter from Tim Brown, O'Neill's hard work ethic earned him a place on the team 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports W ricer 

When 14-year old Jonathan Heart needed inspiration, he turned to someone he had never met. 
Looking 
for guid­ance, he sent a letter to senior walk-on Timmy O'Neill, writing about the 


death of his O'Neill grandmoth­er, his recent frustrations and desire to quit football. Ile asked for advice. 
When Timmy O'Neill received the letter, he responded to the teenager, offering support and encouragement. 
And with that, Heart found a new friend. 
"I told him about my experi­ences, what I had gone through and how football had been a positive influence in my life," Timmy O'Neill said. 
After receiving the letter, 1leart and his father traveled to Notre Dame to meet Timmy O'Neill and the rest of the team. 
The experience proved to be jus~ as rewarding for Timmy O'Neill as it was for Heart -it brought back memories for the senior from more than a decade before when he found himself looking for inspiration. 
As a seven-year old coming from a family rich in Notre Dame tradition, Timmy O'Neill was hooked on Notre Dame foot­ball. Three generations of family members before him had attend­ed Notre Dame. His great-grand­father served Mass for Father Sorin and his grandfather grad­uated with and knew the Four Horsemen. One of those football legends, Don Miller, often visited his grandfather and once played golf with his father. 
So it came as no surprise that Timmy O'Neill also wanted to be a part of that Irish tradition. His father took him to his first game at Notre Dam<~ Stadium where he saw the Irish battle Michigan State and watched wide receiver Tim Brown return two kickoffs for touchdowns. 
"Ile was jumping out of his skin," said his father Mike O'Neill. "We had tickets to see the Pope in Detroit. And I gave them away to take him to the game. I figured tht1 game would be more of a religious experi­ence for him." 
\Vhen he returned home, Timmy O'Neill sat down and fired off a letter to his new role model. 
It read, errors and all: "Dear Timmy Brown, Yesterday my Daddy took me to the Notre Dame Michigan State game. I saw you run back too touch­downs. I'm seven years old and I like football and I think you are grate. I would be so happy if you could sign your name on this paper and send it back to me to 
show my friends. Your friend, Timmy O'Neill." He received a reply six months later and was ecstatic. 
"I was happy to get (Heart's] letter because it reminded me of when I wrote that letter to Tim Brown and it showed how things had come full circle for me," Timmy O'Neill said. 
Timmy O'Neill's full-circle journey from admirer to inspirer has been one defined by hard work, determination and a posi­tive attitude. 
The third son in his immediate family to walk-on to an NCAA Division I football team and the second one to do so at Notre Dame, Timmy O'Neill excelled as a football standout at Athens High School in Troy, Mich. with one goal in mind: suit up for the Irish. 
After being accepted to Notre Dame, he wasted no time in making that dream a reality. 
"Once I found out that I was in, I turned all my efforts to get­ting on the team. The day I was. accepted I called the recruiting coach." Timmy O'Neill said. "I sent in a highlight tape. I put everything I could think of into the tape -even news clippings. I sent it in on a Monday and on Thursday Coach [Bob] Chmiel called me and said they wanted me to walk on. And so I said, 'You want me to come and try out?' And he said 'No, we want you to come here, get your phys­ical, and join the team."' 
Timmy O'Neill's accomplish­ments in high school put him on the fast track to a spot on the Irish roster as a tailback. As a two~year starter, he logged more than 2,000 yards rushing and receiving and as a senior earned the titles of team captain and most valuable player. He became one of only three fresh­men selected to walk-on, bypassing the spring try-out process. 
"I had no idea how the process worked. I didn't know that wasn't typical," Timmy O'Neill said. 
Once on the team, Timmy O'Neill quickly earned the respect of his coaches and team­mates with his love for football and his work ethic -but not until he started practicing. 
Timmy O'Neill and fellovv walk-on Matt Sarb started the day like all the other players. They completed their physicals, they put on their pads and bus­tlf1d out to the field, eager to begin. But, the coaches had other ideas. 
"We see that the head manag­er gets a phone call and says: "Tim O'Neill? Matt Sarb'?'' And then he finds out who we are and then says, 'You two guys have to go back and fill out paperwork,"' Timmy O'Neill said. "So we go inside and Coach Chmiel stared yelling at us that we could have gotten everyone in trouble and stuff, and told us we couldn't practice until the next day. So we went back into the locker room with our pads on and just started hitting each other. We were so excited." 

That excitement has pushed Timmy O'Neill to excel. At 5­foot-5 and l 75 pounds, the senior is not a typical college football player 
"It just shows the great thing about football and football play­ers," Irish defensive coordinator Greg Mattison said. "Players come in all shapes and sizes. If you work hard and you have heart and you want to help a team then you can make it." 
As a tailback who works with the scout team, O'Neill has done his job well. 
"Timmy's been unbelievable," graduate assistant Dennis Moynihan said. "No matter how many good tailbacks come in here, Timmy's always still played scout team tailback for us. He's always there." 
The coaches aren't the only ones who notice the senior's drive. 
"He's a hard worker," starting fullback Tommy Lopienski said. "Ile just gives a full effort every single day -100 percent. We see that even though he doesn't say too much about it. I'm really impressed by him." 
"I think you earn respect by your work ethic," Timmy O'Neill said. "You work hard and your teammates look at you as a foot­ball player and not necessarily a walk on or a scholarship play­er." 
The respect he has earned as a four-year walk-on has pro­duced some memorable moments. He has seen playing time in two games -Arizona State during his sophomore sea­son and Navy last year -and traveled to a handful of away games. 
"I was on the sideline [during the ASU game! and I heard Coach Davie say, 'Where's Tiny Tim'?' So at that point I knew I was going in." he said. "I just kept thinking it was just like practice. I was excited, but l wasn't nervous." 
lie carried the ball twice for four yards. 
"I was so happy for him," ()'Neill's four-year roommate Matt Murphy said. "Our section went crazy. We knew how hard 
he had worked for it.  It was  
great."  
Davie  also  asked  Timmy  

O'Neill to speak at last season's Stanford pep rally. 
"It caught me by surprise," he said. "It is probably one of my most memorable momenl.., -to get up _in front of everyone and speak about what Notre Dame means to me and what my team­mates mean to me." 

And by voting him on to the 
team's leadership council this 
season, Timmy ()'Neill's team­
mates have shown he means a 
lot to them too. Each season, 
the Irish players vote a handful 
of players to the group, which 
serves as a liaison between play­
ers and the head coach. 

"You vote for people you most 
respect," Timmy O'Neill said. "It 
was an honor because it means 
your teammates respect you." 

But the highlights of his tenure 
at Notre Dame haven't come 
without some frustrations. But 
according to Timmy O'Neill, the 
successes have been worth the 
disappointments. 

"It is l'rustrating. When I 
walked on, I didn't think I'd just be the scout tnam tailback. I fig­ured I'd be playing," he said. "If you don't have that mentality of being successful, you aren't going to be. It can be hard to · stay positive when you have high expectations for yourself. But I also realize there are a lot of people out there who would like to trade places with me. So I 
realize how lucky I am." 
Contact Kerry Smith at smith.387@nd.edu. 

.:__ [ £..'.J > 
Friday, November 16, 200I 

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
BERNARD AKATU 

Nigerian crosses ocean to play football 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 
Although he spent a majority of his youth growing up in Lagos, Nigeria. Bernard Akatu dreamed one day that he would &trap on the famous gold helmet and play football for the Irish. 
W h e n Akatu was seven years old, his family moved to South Bend for two years w h e r e Akatu's father studied for a gradu­ate degree in economics at Notre Dame. From the moment he stepped foot on the beautiful cam­pus, Akatu fell in love with the University. 
"My Dad c.fillln to Notre Dame to study economics," said Akahi. "When I lived here ao:; a kid, I got to be around the campus a lot. I wa5 here the year of Notre Dame's last National Olampionship in 1988. The glimpses of the campus and Notre Dame football never lefl my mind when we moved back to Nigeria." 
Growing up in the soccer-crazy nation of Nigeria, soccer naturally became Akatu's first-love, but his passion would change when his family moved back to the United States prior to Bernard's sophomore year in high school. Although he had never even strapped on football pads before in his life, Akatu wanted to give football a shot at his high schcxll in Chevy Chase, Md. because he thought he possessed the right atti­tude to develop into a good football player. 


"S<x-,e,er i<; by far the biggest sport in Nigeria," Akatu said. "Basketball i<; starting to 1:wcome popular, but no one plays football. \Vhen I moved back to the United States, I wanted to try out for football lx~cause Ijust wanted to go out and hit somebody. I remembered watching Notre Dame football before, and football seemed like so much fun. I didn't know all the rules or even how to put on the pads, but I did remember tossing the football around with some of my friends when I was in South Bend so it was not a<; if Iknew nothing about the sport." 
Rec,ause ofhis speed, Akatu made the Bethesda Chevy Chase High School team ai; a wide recciw~r on offen<;e and safety on defense. Even though he played only three years of organized football, Akatu rai'ied the eyebrows of some smaller college scouts and even a few Division 1 programs, most notably Tulane and Army. 
However, the thought ofattending Notre Dame never left his mind. 
"When it came down to applying for college, Notre Dame and the University of Vtrginia were my two top choices bec,ause oftheir tremen­dous ac,ademic reputations," he said. "When I got accepted to Notre Dame, I knew that I wanted to try­out for the team because it was something I always planned to do. Team sports had always been a part ofmy life. Notre Dame is the biggest stage for college football, and Iwant­ed to be a part of that tradition. Had I gone to Virginia or somewhere else, I probably would not have 
played football because those 
school., simply don't have the same 
tradition a., Notre Dame." 
When Aka.tu arrived to the Notre 

Dame campus as a wide-eyed, 17 
year-old freshman, he wa"i nervous 
about making the football team and 
what college life entailed, but his 
c,onfidence in himseU' helped him put 
hi'i fears a'iide and adjust. Just a'> he 
impressed hi'i high-school coaches, 
Akatu impressed the Notm Dame 
maches with his speed and his work 
ethic. 
Akatu achieved hi'i dream of play­

ing football for Notre Dame and 
made the team as a walk-on. Just 
like every other player on the Notre 
Dame football team, Akatu wishes 
he was contributing on the field 
every Saturday, but Aka.tu hm, c,ome 
to grips with his role on the team. 
"After tryouts, my goals pro­

gros._5(xf to trying to help the team in 
any way I can," he said. "Sure, I'd 
like to be out there on the field dur­
ing the games. But more than any­
thing else, I want to see us succeed. 
There are guys on thii; team that are 
more talented than me, but Ican still 
c,0ntribute to the team. Ifthat means 
I have to take a back seat role, that's 
fine with me." 
Balancing academic.s and partici­. pating as a member of the football 
team is an extremely difficult task at 
Notre Dame, but Akatu has no 
regrets about choosing to walk-on. 
There is no substitute for the team 
camaraderie and the personal rela­
tionships he has experienced as a 
member ofthe team. 
"I have no regrets about walking 

on," he said. 'Tm not treated any dif­
ferently from anyone else on the 
team ao:; a walk-on. We all respect each other bec,ause we are all going through the same practices on the field and the same academic chal­lenges off the field. Walking-on has made my experience at Notre Dame so much better. Ifl had gone some­where else, I would not have faced the same challenges." 
While football is important to Akatu, he knows that it will be ac.ad­emic.s and not athletics that helps him after college. Originally, Aka.tu thought he would major in mmput­er engineering, but before his senior year, Akatu decided to switch his major to MIS within the Mendoza College ofBusiness. In order to fulfill his business requirements and grad­uate, Akatu will have to return to Notre Dame as a fifth year senior, but like most college students, he is ummre what the future might hold. 

"I don't know if I'll walk-on next year or not," he said. "I may just want to be a regular student for a change. I'm still unsure what I want to do after school. Ifthe opportunity for me to stay in the United States i'> there, I would like to stay. If not, I may return to Nigeria where most of my extended family lives." 
Contact Joe Licandro at jlicandr@nd.edu. 
RYAN KRUEGER 

Mishawaka product a player of many roles 
career in the field after gradua­lem. In the first game of his 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 

tion. senior season at Marian, Ryan Sports Editor 
"You're only young once, l fig­Krueger sustained a knee injury ure it's worth a try," Krueger that required surgery and ended Hyan Krueger is an actor said. his high school career. always taking on a new role. Krueger's path to the Notre The injury wasn't fully healed 
One week the senior walk-on Dame practice fields crossed a when f'all practices began in on the Irish football team may few different roads and took a August, so he was not able to play the few bumps along the way. His play football as a freshman. part of a father, Patrick, worked as a Instead of feeling disappointed, Boston sportscaster for the University of Ryan Krueger met this hurdle College Kansas while Byan was in h(~ad-on, literally. wideout. grammar school. After that, lie joined the track team and The next Patrick Krueger moved into the ran the hurdles as a freshman, week, he field of development, which took as well as the 400-meter dash. may act as him to Seattle through Hyan's During the spring track sea­a tailback in freshman year in high school. son, Byan Krueger also lifted t h e By the time Hyan Krue.ger with the football players as he Tennessee entered his sophomore year of prepared for walk-on tryouts. scheme. high school, his father's career Although he was slowed by an This past week, h(-~ has had taken him to Notre Dame, injury incurred during track observed, researched and acted whern Patrick Krueger is now season, Hyan Krueger made it out the role of a Navy slot back. the assistant director of regional through and earned a spot on 
And Krueger doesn't stop act­development. Ryan Krueger the team. ing when he leaves Notre Dame ended up playing on the grid­As a junior, Hyan Krueger got stadium a little after 6 p.m. iron at Mishawaka's Marian some company in Notre.))anrn's every night. From football prac­High School. stable of quarterbacks -nonn tice, Krueger hnads to the din­At Marian, Hyan Krueger other than .a freshman from ing hall, then to Washington played quarterback, and played Marian High School named Matt Hall for some more acting -well enough that he was recruit­Krueger, Ryan's younger broth­this time on the stage. ed by service academy teams er who took over at Marian 
The 5-foot-9, 186 pound such as Navy as well as smaller when Hyan was injured. Lovecchio and Jared Clark. But scout team." senior recently added acting to colleges. Rut Krueger didn't Today, they often take the while both Krueger brothers And Ryan Krueger has devel­his resume, and has taken on seriously consider those offers; field at the same time, with learned the plays at quarter­oped friendships with all the the role of \Velch, an interesting there was only one place he Ryan lining up at receiver or back, Matt takes more snaps players, not just the non-schol­character who comes in during wanted to go. back and Matt at quarterback. while Ryan helps out in different arship ones. 
the second act in Rumors, a play "I always knew I wanted to go "It's a lot of fun. Because of ways. "The team is a pretty close­that debuts in February. to Notre Dame," Ryan Krueger the age difference we never "He's been versatile," said knit group -Carlyle [Holiday] "It's something I've really said. "There wasn't much really got to play together in graduate assistant coach Dennis usually stays at my house over 
enjoyed doing,'' Krueger said. thought given to going any­high school," Hyan Kruegc r Moynihan. "Today we used him fall break," Krueger said. 
In fact, Krueger has f'njoyed where else." said. as a slot back on the Navy acting so much he plans on Ryan Krueger wanted to walk Both brothers learn the plays offense because they use two putting any uses for his finance on to the football team immedi­alongside scholarship quarter­slot backs. He's a quarterback 
Contact Noah Amstadter at 

degree on hold and pursuing a ately, but thPre was one prob-backs Carlyle Holiday, Matt but he's more than that on the 
namstadt@nd.edu. 



Friday, November 16, 2001 
page6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
JEFF CAMPBELL 

Transfer balances football and ROTC 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
God, Country, Notre Dame. 
It may sound cliched, but for a man of strong lhlth who is a cadet first class in the Air Force and 
spends his afternoons setting up play after play against the Irish first­string offen..<;e, there seems Jittle 


else to say. Campbell Senior Jeff Campbell, who transferred from IIoly Cross and walked onto the football team at the end of his sophomore year, has more to balance than most stu­dents. As a cadet in the Air Force and a fWl-timc student, it's a won­der that he hac, had time for football. But Campbell made the time. 'The most intense thing about Jeff is hie, devotion to the football team," said Col. Mark Gehri, Campbell's commander in Air Force ROTC. "Ile's incrndibly dedicated." Four years ago, Campbell was playing tight end in Kalamazoo, Mich. After an injury ended hopes of playing scholarship football. Campbnll had a choice to make. "I was going to go to Hope College to play ball," he said. "But then Ijust changed my mind and decided, remembered that I always wanted to come [to Notre Darnel ... It's in my family." But coming to Notre Dame and playing football wasn't easy. 

Campbell spent his freshman year studying at Holy Cross before trans­fetring to Notre Dame and testing into the ROTC scholarship program. During the majority of his sopho­more year Campbell only had to balance his time between hie, dutfos a-, an Air Force cadet and a full-time college student. B_ut there was something that was a big part of Campbell's life that he hadn't yet participated in at Notre Dame ­football. 
"I always loved this school," he said. "I started loving this school because I loved the football team." 
And so Campbell added just one more thing to his already busy schedule -practice five days a week. For the past two years, Ca.mplx~ll hac, played defensive end on the scout team, and teammates and coaches have never seen him give less than 100 percent. 
"There's one word to describe Jeff, there's only one word," defen­sive scout team coach John Defilippo said. "IIc's a warrior. Jeff is an absolute warrior. He is a down alter down after down player." 
"I look up to him," teammate Tim O'Neill added. 'We ptt<,h each other, make each other lx1ttcr. He's one of those guys who's out there everyday giving 100 percent." 
But football isn't all there is for Ca.mptx~n. In May, Campbell, who i-, currently studying history, will be commissioned as a second lieu­tenant in the Air Force. Following graduation, he will most likely spend a year training at Pensacola before being stationed at an Air Force base somewhere in the United States as an Air Forr,e navi­gator. 
"(Camplx}ll] really proves that you 
can learn leadership in a lot of dif­
ferent ways," Gehri said. "He's an 
excellent leader and fully ready to 
be an Air Force officer." 
Playing football and doing ROTC 
do catt'ie conllic.,1.s, but Campbell and his advisors were bound and deter­. mined to make them work. Make­
up ses..'iions are scheduled to replace 
afternoon -leadership labs in ROTC 
and the Air Force understands that 
Campbell is learning leadership 
other places than the classroom. 
"The Air Force ROTC program is 
a leadership development pro­
gram," Gehri said. "I firmly believe 
he is getting character and leader­
ship training on the grid-iron." 
Notre Dame and country are 
what Campbell does. But God is 
why he does it. 
"We're not always in control," 
Campbell said. "Just learning that 
tht~re's a greater power than all of 
us that we do this for -that's the 
only thing you can rely on to get 
through that kind ofstuff." 
·As a senior, Campbell isn't quite 
ready to leave Notre Dame~ and foot­
ball behind. Although he will be 
commissioned in May, he will apply 
for educational delay, allowing him 
to spend one more semester at 
Notre Dame before entering train­
ing in January. 
"I wouldn't like to see him come 
back," Defilippo said. "I would love 
to see him mme back." 
But another year of football won't 
come without sacrifices. ROTC can­
not support an additional semester. 
so if Camplx~ll retumc, he will have 
to pay. 
"lle's willing to reach into hie, wal­
let while he L-, unpaid to pay for that 


. BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 
Jeff Campbell, No. 97, looks at the next play the scout defense will run during practice earlier this week. 
whole thing and delaying hi-, entry With all of his work Campbell ha-, into the Air Force," C.n~hri said. "He's something to be proud of. But those willing to do that jt1c,t to play for one who know him best know that he more year on the team." would never mention his accom­
lfCampbcll comes back for anoth-plishmentc,. er y.car, he knows he probably v.ill "Jeff i.-, a quiet man. He's a hum­still never see playing time. But for hie man and he doesn't have a lot of him, there's more to football than reason to be humble," Gehri said. touching the turf "... It's really apparent that he stays 
"It might sound cliche, but as long very balanced in all hi., accomplish­a-, we win I don't really care lthat I mentc, v.1th his humility to God and don't play]," he said. " ... I'm miser-country." able if we lose ... that's always been in there. When I joined thi-, team, I never even expected to be able to_ Contact Katie McVoy at travel or expected to play." mvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
SPRING 2002 COURSES 
In 

--IRISH MILITARY HISTORY 

l The Chiefofrhe MacSweeneys set11ed at Dinner, by John Derrick, 1691
I 
IRST 232:01 MW 1:SS-2:4S Eamonn OCiardha 
Co-Req. lRST2J2T 

The Irish Military Tradition 
What better at Notre Dame than acourse on the fighting Irish? Over the last five centuries, hundreds of thousands of Irishmen have engaged in military conflict at home; in the same period, as many Irishmen have served in the armies of various European powers, the United States, Canada, and Mexico. This course explores the changing political and ideological contexts of Irish military involvement; it devotes particular attention to Irish participation in the American War of Independence, the Civil War and the subjugation ofthe native peoples. This course will be taught by Eamonn OCiardha, aleading Irish military historian and highly regarded teacher. 

IRST 437:01 T H 9:30-10:45 Ciaran Brady 
Late Medieval/Early Modern Ireland Contending Conquests: The Struggle for Mastery in Ireland, 1471-1660 
Focusing on 1470 to 1660, this course offers new perpectives on the struggle for mastery in Ireland. Investigating arange of primary sources, students will explore the multi-layered English conquest of Ireland and the diverse responses of the natives.ranging from accomo­dation and assimilation to outright rebellion and national war. Professor Ciaran Brady of Trinity College Dublin will teach the course. Professor Brady is one of Ireland's most distin­guished historians with areputation for innovative teaching. ' 
While at Notre Dame in spring 2002 Brady will also teach: 
IRST 432:01 TH 3:30-4:4S Ciaran Brady Elizabethans and Their World lSS0-1603 
This course sets the work of the great figures of the "Elizabethan Renaissance" ­Shakespeare, Spenser, and Sidney-in wider cultural and intellectual contexts. Materials surveyed in the course include crime writing, religious exhortations, ballads, engravings, and maps which late sixteenth century English people used to comprehend and control their changing world. 

Professor Eamonn 0 Ciardha of the Keough Institute for Irish Studies and Steve Moriarty of the Snite Museum examine Paul Wood's 
Absolution under Fire: Fr. Corby Messes the Irish Brigude before the Huttle ofGettysburg 
(1891) 
Friday, November 16, 2001 

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
JOHN CROWTHER 


It's a snap 
Crowther moues from interhall center to starting long-snapper in one year 
goose bumps, and it was the 
By CHRIS FEDERICO most incredible feeling. There 
Spons Writer . were 80,000 people, it was 
night game on ABC, and I just 
Think back to the first thought, 'This is amazing!"' 
semester at college. Better Since his first game with the 
yet. think back to the first team was on the road, 
week. there. He member Crowther couldn't wait to 
attending experience the thrill of run­
all the 
ning through the famed tun­
meetings, nel at the north end zone of 
adjusting Notre Dame Stadium. 
to classes, "The next weekend was the 
going to Purdue game and it was the 
those crazy first time my family had come 
parties and down to campus for a game," 
dealing Crowther said. "So running 
with a ter-out on the field. as excited as 
r i f y i n g Crowther I was for the Michigan State 
roommate. game, it wasn't even close to 
For the average freshman, what it was at home. You see 
surviving this new environ­all the students, and the band 
ment is a skill in itself. is playing the fight song. It's 
Now imagine getting a tele­like something I can picture 
phone call out of the blue over and over again in my 
from a Notre Dame football head in pretty good detail 
coach asking you to come try because it was so memo­
out for the team. That's rable." 
exactly how senior long-snap­
per John Crowther was wel­

On the Spot
comed to campus after his 
Everyone who was on cam­first week in South Bend. 

p us last year remembers
"A lot of people come here 

Notre Dame's thrilling 23-21 with intentions of walking on 
victory over Purdue. The Irish -I came here with no inten­were down by one point withtions at a11," said Crowther. 
just enough time left on the
Virtual1y unrecruited out of clock one play
for -a
Edina High School in home­Nicholas Setta 38-yard field town Edina, Minn., Crowther 

goal attempt. Everyone
figured his football career 

r{~members how the ball just 
was over and was content to 

cleared inside the rightplay interhall football for 
upright, and then the studentsMorrissey Manor. But after a 
rushed onto the field, and
couple of practices with the 

Setta was carried off on his
Manorites, some of the team's 

teammates' shoulders. 
coaches noticed Crowther's 
But nobody remembers it a.s
snapping ability on place­

well as Crowther, the player
kicks and thought he could 

who started it all off with hishelp out the varsity team. 
snap to holder Adam Tibble.
"[Our coach] called the foot­

That play marks his greatest
ball coaches about me, but he moment with the squad.

what he

didn't even tell me "Before every snap, whether 
was doing," Crowther says. 

its my first or may last one, I "One day I got a call from the am 
always extremely ner­
coaches to try out, so I went 

vous," Crowther said. "I kind 
out to practices on, I think, 

of describe at as if I'm almost · 
the first Friday of my fresh­

scared, but I think if I don't 
man year. That Sunday, I 

have that feeling, then I'm not 
found out I had made the 

in the right mind set." 
team, and then I made my 
For a player that finds him­
first practice midway through self nervous in the most timid

the first game week." 

situations, a game saving play
When the backup snapper that relied on his initiating

for the Irish was injured the snap was nerve-racking.

next week, Crowther was 
"I was pretty nervous -like called on to join the team on 

always -but even more so 
their next road trip. Just 

because the game was on thethree weeks into his collegiate 
line," Crowther said. "But 
career, the freshman, walk­

[quarterback Gary Godsey] on long-snapper was given 
came up to me after he hadthe chance to travel with one led the team down the field
of the most-storied college 

and looked at me and said,
football programs in the 

'You've got this. No one else country. 
should be doing this right
"It really didn't allow me a rMw except you."'

chance to get homesick," After several coaches and

Crowther said. • 

players reminded him that the play was just like they "This is amazing!" had practiced -just like they 
Every Irish football player do a hundred times every day has done it since Notre Dame -Crowther headed out on Stadium was built, and every the field with his team for the fan dreams about the oppor­decisive play. tunity to run through the tun­"I just went out there with nel onto Notre Dame field the mindset that if I make a with the golden helmets good snap, I knew Nick was gleaming in the sun. going to kick it -we always 
"The first time I ever know Nick is going to kick it dressed with the team was at well -and Adam was going Michigan State my freshman to get a good hold," Crowther year. and it was unbeliev­said. "So I just basically put able," Crowther said. "I had the pressure on myself that if 
I did this, we were going to win, and it worked out." 
Bouncing back 
After handling the snapping duties on field goals and extra points during his junior year, Crowther was also given the job for punts this season. In the first game of the year against Nebraska, on just his second snap of the year, Crowther fired the ball well over punter Joey Hildbold 's head for a 45-yard loss with the Irish already down 14.-0. 
"After that, I was mad at myself," Crowther said. "I knew it was all a mental error, because I had lost my concentration on exactly what I was supposed to be doing at that time. But [that play] allowed me to refocus and say, 'This is what I have to do from now on."' 
For a snapper whose sole job is to send the ball back to his holder's or his punter's hands, a mistake like that can be crushing to his confidence. The possibility of reliving the same mistake could rise up in the back of a player's mind every time he leans over the ball. That's not the case with Crowther. 

"[Crowther] is a very good snapper, and he obviously works very hard," said Irish assistant coach Kirk Doll. who works with the kickers and punters. "He's a good com­petitor, and he won't let one thing in particular ruin his whole career. Obviously. he can bounce back from this, and he's done a good job for us." 
Indeed, after that 45-yard snap in the opening contest, Crowther's play has been nearly perfect all year long. His accurate snaps have allowed him to slip back into the obscurity the snapper, the automatic aspect of special teams, but that role is fine with him. 
"For my position, if you make a mistake, it's going to be costly, and that's the only way you ever get noticed," Crowther says. "So in my position, you don't want to be a high-profile player, because that means you're messing up a lot." 
Life goes on 
If you ask John Crowther about his dream job in the future, he'll tell you about his desire to host his own hunting and fishing program like the ones. that air on ESPN on Saturday mornings. But real­istically, his plans for the future hold closer to his life at Notre Dame. He will graduate this year with a de·gree in finance, but he hopes to stay around for another year to begin his graduate work. 
.. I'd love to stay here for another year and enter the MBA program, but you have to apply and it's not for sure," Crowther said. 
If he were to return, Crowther could be granted another year of eligibility to play football, because he did not enter a game as a fresh­man or a sophomore. 
"That's something I'm look­ing at right now, because I'd love to come back and play," Crowther said. "I feel like I could still contribute, but at a certain time, you have to move on. I don't want it to be at the end of this year, but if that's the way things work out, I'm ready to do that. If not, I'd be happy to go back for another y~ar." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 


Friday, November 16, 200 I 
page 8 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

\ 
·, 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 3-5 AP: Unranked Coaches: Unranked 


Bob Davie fifth season at Notre Dame career record: 
33-24 
at Notre Dame: 
33-24 
Davie against head coach Navy: 4-0 
Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht. 1 Jared Clark QB 6-4 2 Carlos Pierre-Antoine !LB 6-3 2 Dan Novakov QB 6-1 3 Amaz Battle FL 6-1 4 Justin Smith FS 5-11 5 Ron Israel ss 6-1 6 David Givens FL 6-3 7 Carlyle Holiday QB 6-3 8 Lorenzo Crawford FL 5-10 9 Jason Beckstrom CB 5-10 
IO Matt LoVecchio QB 6--4 IO Ryan Krueger QB 5.9 11 Marcus Wilson RB 5·11 12 Tony Fisher TB 6-2 13 NickSetta K/P 5·11 14 Gary Godsey TE 6-6 14 Mike Klockner DB 6=2 15 Clifford Jefferson CB 5.9 16 Abram Elam 55 6-0 17 Joey Hildbold p 5-10 18 · Ronnie Rodamer SE 6-4 19 Glenn Earl FS 6-1 20 Gerome Sapp 55 6-0 21 Javin Hunter SE 6-0 22 Julius Jones TB 5-10 23 Chris Yura TB 6-0 24 Cory Jones RB 6-2 24 Chad DeBolt !LB 6-0 25 Ryan Grant RB 6-1 26 Garron Bible CB 5-10 28 Donald Dykes FS 5-11 28 Cole Laux TB 5-10 30 Rocky Boiman OLB 6--4 31 Dwayne Francis FS 6-0 32 Terrance Howard TB 6-1 33 Courtney Watson !LB 6-1 34 Vontez Duff CB 5-11 35 David Miller K 5-11 35 Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 36 Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 

; 
37 Dwight Ellick CB 5-11 

r 38 Preston Jackson CB 5-9 
I 38 Eric Nelson FB 6-0 
I 
. 39 Brandon Hoyte ILB 6-0 40 Jason Murrdy FB 6-1 41 Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 42 Shane Walton CB 5-11 44 Grant Irons DE 6-5 45 MattSarb 55 5-11 
I 
46 Corey Mays !LB 6-1 
47 MikeMcNair FB 6-0 48 Justin Tuck OLB 6-5 
49 Derek Curry ILB 6-3 
50 Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 
51 Tyreo Harrison ILB 6-2 
52 Jeff Faine C 6-3 
52 Mark Mitchell OLB 5-10 
53 Jason Halvorson DL 6-2 
55 Zachary Giles OL 6-4 
56 John Crowther C 6-2 
56 Pdt Ryan ILB 6-3 
57 Justin Thomas OLB 6-1 
59 Brian Dierckman ILB 6-1 
oO DMrell Campbell DT 6-4 
61 Jesse Desplinter LB 6-1 
62 Casey Robin 0G 6-7 
63 Brennan Curtin OT 6-8 
64 Jeff Campbell DE 6-1 
65 Sean Milligan 0G 6-4 
66 JW Jordan C 6-1 
67 Ryan Gillis 0G 6-3 
69 Darin Mitchell OL 6-4 
70 Jim Molinaro OT 6-6 
72 Ryan Scarola 0G 6-5 
73 Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 
75 Kurt Vollers ar 6-7 
76 John Teasdale OT 6-5 
77 Greg Pauly DT 6-6 
78 Jordan Black OT 6-6 
79 Sean Mahan OT 6-3 
80 Adam Tibble K 5-11 
80 Omar Jenkins WR 6-2 
81 Jerome Collins OLB 6--4 
82 Bernard Akdtu SE 5-10 
82 Matt Shelton WR 6-l 
83 Josh Gentine K/P 5-11 
84 John Owens TE 6-3 
85 Billy PaJm.,.r TE 6-3 
86 Brendan Hart TE 6-2 
87 Jondthan Smith WR 6-4 
88 Carlos Campbell WR 6-1 
89 Matt Root TE 6-6 
90 Brian Beidatsch DL 6-4 
91 Jeff Thompson DL 6-5 
92 Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 
94 AndyWisne OT 6-3 
'15 Ryan Robt•rts DE 6-2 
97 Chris Mahoney OL 6-5 
98 Anthony Wea~er DE 6-3 
99 Jason Sapp DE 6-3 
Wt. 
230 241 215 210 197 212 212 218 190 
186 
205 
186 180 
226 175 270 151 176 210 
188 
210 210 214 191 210 225 215 202 198 191 195 225 240 198 195 232 192 208 175 249 170 176 225 219 260 240 186 275 200 234 237 215 228 290 242 296 200 240 285 242 231 245 250 296 177 300 305 230 295 275 296 285 295 308 310 312 305 208 318 292 186 180 242 190 170 205 260 265 255 195 190 225 265 265 265 
285 
262 282 286 250 
YR 
so 
SR JR SR SR SR SR 
so 
so 
JR 
so 
SR 
FR 
SR JR JR SR SR 
so 
JR 
so 
JR JR SR JR JR FR SR 
FR 
so 
SR 
so 
SR SR SR JR 
so 
SR SR SR FR 
so 
SR FR SR 
so 
SR SR SR FR SR FR 
so 
JR SR JR SR JR FR SR 
JR JR SR 
JR 
so 
SR JR SR JR SR JR FR JR SR FR SR SR so 
SR SR SR FR 
so 
SR FR JR SR 
so 
so 
so 
FR 
FR 
FR FR 
so 
SR SR SR SR 
so 

, Irish
f 
experts 

NOTRE DAME 2001 Schedule 

Sept. 8 at Nebraska -L Sept. 22 Michigan St. -L Sept. 29 at Texas A&M -L Oct.6 Pittsburgh -W Oct. 13 W. Virginia -W 

,'usc-w 
·.~ 
Oct. 21· at Bostor{tollege -L Nov. 3 Tennessee -L Nov. 17 Navy Nov. 24 at Stanford Dec. 1 at Purdue 
COACHING 
LIi 
:E ct Q 
I.LI 
a:: 
.... 
0 
z 


TAILBACK 
22-Jones 
32-Howard 
LE 
. 
QUARTERBACK 79 
. 7-Ho 67 10-L 
2•Ber
RIGHT 
97-Zetts
GUARD 
_.__J ..
78-Black 
65-Milligan 
'lt _./· .• ••• 
">.·-.>,.,:. _· . ,;·.= '.:. ·, :-"<.::: .,: ·. ' . -'.i:. .--,-~
RIGHT TACKLE 
75-Vollers 
70-Mollnaro 
TIGHT END 
84-0wens 
14-Godaey 
FLANKER 
3-Battle 
BO-Campbell 
.· •, ';.,,•:· 
·. "::,.. ____ >,·-.·., _:_)·. ··t'.~ 
.::·;,•:ii~:­
.,. : . . . : ' . S48rindal 
. ' . .. 
i~V.!~ ~·
.~fr~ 
QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 

The rumors continue to swirl about Davie's future. He's said he won't resign, and he said he's focused on coaching. You have to admire Davie's persistence -he's not going to go down without a fight.  Two weeks ago, Holiday showed that he could throw the ball when the run is taken away. And he better get used to throwing because teams are going to start keying their defenses on the athletic sophomore.  Tennessee contained Notre Dame's option game well, but the Irish still managed to run the ball. Grant showed signs of the future before he fumbled, and with Fisher out, he might see some significant playing time.  Holiday can throw the ball -all he needs are some receivers. Hunter has been Holiday's go-to receiver all season long. But Givens will not play Saturday, and the Irish seem to have forgotten about Battle.  

Lantz has coached exact­ly one collegiate game. He also worked as an assistant coach under Faust from 1984-85. In his only game, he led the Midshipmen to a 42-28 loss against Tulane.  Simply put, Madden is Navy's offense. He leads the team in rushing yards and passing yards, averaging 126 and 125 yards a game, respec­tively. If only he could play defense. He has been battling a slightly­separated shoulder most of the season.  Navy just hasn't been able to contain the rush all year. They've given up an average of 244 yards on the ground each game. Not a good sign for Navy.  The secondary is at least · better than the front seven, but that's not saying much. They've given up 243 passing yards and only have four interceptions.  

It doesn't matter how good or bad Davie is. Lantz has a whopping one game under his belt.  Both quarterbacks are fairly•fqu~ ~tale9t aq.d both ate ,JhqI,tocal pQinfs of~ac1'.Jeam's .. offen~e.The keyto oftcn':~ive suc­cess revolves around each quarterback.  Notre Dame's strong run­ning game plus Navy's poor defense doesn't bode well for the Midshipmen. The Irish should be able to rw1 all over the Stadium,-· if they can hold onto the ball. - Even Notre Dame -which loves to run the ball -shouldn't have any trouble passing the ball. The only question remain­ing is if the Irish wiH even havn to.  

Noah Amstadter Navy 24 sports editor Andrew Soukup associate sports editor 
FREE 
SAFETY 

7-Cromer 
28-Giorgl 
STRONG 
SAFETY 
9-Srooks 
13-Fay 
CORNERBACK ) , , 9~enry 111-Brazler '--,. 'j 36-Bush '--
NAVYft-' 

DEFENSE .,!\ f '__ · 
Navy is just a flat-out bad football team. Lantz has a whopping one game under his belt and the defense is horrible. \'\'bile Navy has played the Irish close the last two trips to Notre Damn Stadium, that won't happen again. Notre Dame's rushing attack wiJI destroy Navy's defense and the game will be over early. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38 Navy 17 




l_E.E. .q> 
Friday, November 16, 200 l page 9
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 



Rick Lantz
NAVY 
NAVY 
first year at

OFFENSE 

Navy 
Aug. 30 
FULLBACK 
32-1.ambert 
23-Terelf 
Sept. 8 
RIGHT END 
44-lron•
SLOTBACK 
~ 
Sept. 22
5-R­
21-Lane 
QUARTeRSA 
8-Madden 
Oct. 6 
11-Csndelo 
Oct. 13 
RIGHT TACKLE 
a.t.Jeffery 
Oct. 20
63-Magee 

DEFE STRONG 
TIGHT END TA 
Oct. 27

SAFETY 
89-ZaQr 

20-8app
87-Mercer ~ 92-Sudi 5-lsrael 
Nov. 10 

OUTSIDE • · 1·. l LINEBACKER' ~• ..J 
ID~ 
30-Boiman 
ECIEVER 81-COllins 
Nov. 17

dy CORNERBACK 
Dey 42-Walton 
9-Becilstrom 
Dec. 1 
34 Rashad Jamal FB 5-10 208 JR

SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
35 Brad Tepper TB 5-10 208 JR

RUSHING PASSING 
36 David Bush CB 5-7 170 so 37 Brendan Looney TB 5-11 191 so 38 Colin Larkins FB 5-8 219 JR 39 Donnie Fricks TB 190 5-9 JR 40 Jeff Gaddy WR 5-10 175 SR 41 CeeHarris FB 5-2 205 JR 42 Bronston Carroll TB 5-10 186 so 

. !f -I Against Tennessee, the Irish completely shut down Stephens. They've improved dramatically from the beginning of the year. Roberts' injury leaves a gaping hole for Irons to fill, however.  ;J J; .. While the secondary has played well most of the year, Clausen's third quarter explosion two weeks ago killed the Irish. Walton has been stellar all year long, however.  ,. Setta is Setta -he's been good all se·ason long. Notre Dame's kick­off coverage units will get plenty of action Saturday, and they've done a solid job prevent­ing big returns.  It's the final home game for Notre Dame's seniors -they won't have any problem getting fired up. The only thing peo­ple are wondering is if Saturday's game is also Davie's last game in Notre Dame Stadium.  
Madden is Navy's option  
attack. They use a variety  At 0-8, Navy just wants  
of plays that almost always result in the quar­terback running the ball. Madden is averaging 104 more rushing yards than anyone else on the team. In all, 18 different play­ Much like their rushing attack, Navy throws the ball to a variety of people. Their big-play receiver, Gaddy, is averaging one 40-yard catch a game.  Navy's coverage teams are pretty good -they only allow an average of 15 yards on a kickoff return. Skaggs averages 45 yards a punt and HiUs is 9-of-10 on field goals.  to get their season over. While they may be moti­vated by how close they've played the Irish at Notre Dame Stadium, they still haven't won in 3 7 games against the  
ers have rushed the ball  Irish.  
for Navy.  
And they thought Notre Dame's offense was pre-, dictahle. The key for the Irish is to contain Madden -he's the entire offense.  While the Midshipmen use a variety of receivers, they don't throw the baJI that much. Notre Dame should be able to easily control the pass.  Notre Dame's special ~ams,has~'tJived µp to ~~, lofty ""~Gt~tigrt~ fr fast y(~Q,,f. ~eanihtij,Navy's §pellfit'l;te'am•s unit is pretty good and worthy of respect.  The final home game, the last chance for the seniors .to make a last­ing impact, is all the Irish will need.  

z 
43 Chris Wade LB 6-0 223 so. 
0 
44 Lenter Thomas s 190 5-11 JR
-I 
45 Jeff Lam TB 5-8 195 SR
:::0 
46 Justin Golson CB 5-7 187 so 
m 
47 Dan Person DE 6-5 255 JR 
48 Jon Black FB 6-1 222 so
C 
49 Mikl• Chi,.,sl LB 6-1 238 SR
l>s: 
50 Ben Mathews LB 6-1 220 so 
51 Dan Ryno LB 6-1 225 SR 

52 Andy Sinitiere LB 5-11 226 so 53 Donayle West LB 6-0 208 So 54 Josh Brindel OT 6-2 264 JR 55 Justin Simmons LB 6-0 237 JR 56 Eddie Carthan LB 5-11 211 so 57 Josh Goodin C 6-1 247 so 58 Ryan Hamilton LB 6-2 232 SR 59 K~vin Schwind DT 6-2 265 so 60 Carl Hazlewood OT 6-6 287 so 61 Travis Peace 0G 6-4 287 JR 62 Justin Smith C 6-5 250 JR 63 Sean Magee OT 6-6 266 so 64 John Jeffery OT 6-4 275 SR 65 Derek Jaskowiak OT 6-4 261 JR li6 Kevin White DE 6-2 240 so > 67 Shane Todd 0G 6-4 297 so 68 Dan Venuto oc 6-6 209 SR 69 Dan Peters C 6--0 269 so 70 Tucker Bennett OT 6-4 248 so 71 Matt Nye 0G 6-4 280 JR 72 Brett Cochrane 0G 6-4 292 JR 73 Ryan McKay 0G 6-2 259 so 74 Nehemiah Katz 0G 6-5 264 so 75 Brian Shulz C 287 6-0 SR 76 Ben Eastburn C 6-3 265 JR 77 David Walsh OT 6-6 288 JR 78 Grant Moody OT 6-4 265 JR 79 Michael White OT 6-3 250 so 
m 

J> 
80 Eric Rolfs K 6-2 161 so 
p
2 
81 Bobby Sparks 6-3 205 so 
p
l> 
82 John Skaggs 6-1 205 so 83 Mason Buk p 5-11 189 so 
-~ 84 Mike Mcllravy WR 5-0 176 sou, 
85 Luke Dreyer TE 606 242 so 
u, 
86 Heath Sanders TE 6-3 258 JR 
87 Steve Mercer TE JR 6-3 245 
88 Glen Schatz DE 6-1 238 JR 
89 Jim Zakar TE 6-5 265 JR 
90 Michael Wagoner DE 6-2 261 SR 
91 John Hillman TE 6-4 230 so 
92 Matt Berger DT 6-2 245 SR 
93 Eric Severson DE 6-2 240 SR 
94 Steve Adair DE 6-2 231 so 
95 Ralph Henry DE 6-l 254 % 
% Pete BeuttenmullPr DT 6-4 260 JR 
97 Andy Zetts DT 6-1 265 JR 
98 Nate Chase DT 6-2 260 so 
99 JoeyOwmby DT 6-3 262 JR 

MIDSHIPMAN MIDSHIPMAN 
Navy
Midshipmen Record: 0-8 AP: Unranked Coaches: Unranked 
at Temple -L Georgia Tech -L Boston College -L Air Force -L Rice -L at Rutgers -L at Toledo -L 
Tulane -L at Notre Dame Army 
career record: 
0-1 
at Navy 
0-1 

Lantz
against Notre 
intenn head
Dame: 0-0 
coach 
Roster 

No. Name Pos. Ht. WI. YR 1 Jake Bowen LB 6-1 241 SR 2 Mark Tedrow WR 6-3 202 WR 3 Dominic Bailey WR 5-9 161 JR 4 David Hills K 6-1 205 SR 5 Gene Reese RB 5-9 175 JR :, 6 Chandler Sims WR 6-4 210 JR 7 DeJuan Cromer ss 5-9 191 SR 8 Brian Madden QB 6-1 221 SR 9 Matt Brooks FS 6-0 188 SR 
10 · Ed Malinowski s 5-10 197 SR 11 Craig Candeo QB 5-11 197 so 13 Joey Fay s 6-0 202 JR 14 Ben Michael s 6-0 203 so 16 Shalimar Brazier CB 5-11 198 so 17 Marcus Jackson CB 5-10 175 SR 18 Garrett Cox WR 6--0 205 JR 19 Matt Furgan CB 5-8 167 JR 20 Justin Cramer s 6-2 214 SR 21 Tony Lane TB 5-9 194 so 22 Terence Coleman TB 6-0 210 SR 
23 Marlon Terrell FB 5-8 193 SR 25 Pat Haines FB 5-9 210 SR 26 Scott Lieng TB 5-8 168 so 28 Marc Giorgi s 5-10 193 JR 29 Sina Ekunayo CB 5-11 180 so 31 Marcus Sanders CB 5-10 172 so 32 Raheem Lambert FB 5-10 214 SR 33 Clyde Clark CB 6-1 193 JR 

0 
Somehow Notre Dame also seems to have trou­
Even if it weren't Notre Dame's final home game of the ble with the Naval Academy at home. This season, Navy wouldn't stand a chance. The defining 
year, however, Navy is much worse than usual. characteristic of this game will be the Irish seniors. After 
The Irish should handle them easily as Carlyle four years of successes and heartbreaks, they will make 
Holiday gains more than 100 yards on the their last appearance in Irish uniforms in front of a home 
ground yet again. crowd count. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 45 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38 
Navy 10 Navy 10 
Mike Connolly Kerry Smith editor in chief assistant managing editor 



...: Et1C1\. page 10 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 16, 2001 
ERIC NELSON 

Baseball bat can't stop-Nelson's persistence 
Oelf'/H,/"/11' Tk [!~t Pizza./ 
Voted "BEST DELIVERED PIZZA" 
-1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997•, 
I 
•/ 
i 
I 
~ 
I t I , 
> 
! > I 
> 

By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Eric Nelson's chances of playing football at Notre Dame almost ended before they started. 
Two weeks before he started his 
sophomore year, Nelson asked some men at a party not to smoke in his friend's house. Rather than 
extingu'ish-Nelson ing their cig­arettes, they attacked Nelson \\ith a baseball bat. 'The next thing I knew I wai, on the ground trying to get back up," Nelson said. The now-senior suffered a con­cussion, a cut above his eye and a bruised brain. Two weeks before school started -and hopefully his first season as a Notre Dame walk-on football player ­Nelson's chances of playing foot­ball seemed slim. "I wai,n't sure I was going to be able to play that year," he said. "It was going to be questionable if I was going to be able to play." But he wasn't about to let a little bruising on his brain stop him. Even though his words were slurred from the brain damage, he was back in the gym working out and getting ready for a fall try­out. Quitting football "never crossed lmy] mind." Nelson first started trying to 

r------,
I 7 -Large, 1 Topping I 
I $8.99 OR I 
2 Large, 2 Topping I
I 
$1 J. 99 

L------..J 
r -~ager·s"'!p':c1ar-, 1 Large, 2 Topping and
I I 
a 2 Liter

I I
Coco•Cola Claulc
I $10. 99 I 
L------..J
r------,
Late Night Spec/al
I I 
9pm -close

I I
Lorge One Topping
I $7.99 I
L ______ ..J 
make the team in the spring of his freshman year. He was given a work out by then-coordinator of football operations Bob Chmiel and told that when returned in the fall, he would be on the team. 
But things clidn't quite work out when he returned. 
Hather than getting a spot on the team when he returned to campus, he wai, told he had to try out again. But the try-out never was scheduled. It was canceled and pushed back repeatedly until finally Chmiel told Nelson to just come back in the spring and try out again. 
Even though his dreams of play­ing for the Irish w~re put on hold, Nelson didn't stop playing football. He continued playing for the Keenan IIall intramural team. But 
, even though the Knights were very successful -they won the championship when Nelson was a freshman and lost in the first round of the playoffs as a sopho­more -interhall football wa5n't satisfying enough for Nelson. "I felt like if I am at Notre Dame, I might as well try to walk-on and play football," he said. "Intramurals is football but I love football so much and with intra­murals you only practice so many times. It's just not the same." Nelson's walk-on attempt in February 2000 was ·much more successful. He made the team and took part in spring drills. "It was exciting. I couldn't believe it," Nelson said. "The first time I walked into the locker room, it wai, like 'Wow, this is the Notre Damt1 locker room. I can't believe I am in here.' I'd seen-it on 
TV but you don't think you are going to have anything to do with that." 
For two years, Nelson hai, gone to practice every day and worked out with the scout team. Day after day he plays fullback and runs that week's opponent's offense. There is little glory and almost no chance that he will ever see the field in a real game. But Nelson doesn't mind, he just wants to play football. 
"I just like to play," he said. "Everyday I go to practice, I am playing football. None of my other friends are playing football but here I am, a senior in college and I am playing Division 1 football." 
Nelson doesn't just play football, he plays hard. Both his coaches and teammates describe him a'i a "hard nosed player." 
"Eric has done a great job," said graduate assistant Dennis Moynihan, who works with the scout offonse. "He's been working at fullback and he's really done a nice job for us." 
Injuries have never stopped Nelson from keeping up his hard­hitting play. Despite breaking his arm his junior year, he was back on the field in a ca'it after mii,sing just one practice. 
"That wasn't so bad," he said. 
During practice, Nel'ion said he can't even feel pain. Only after practice in the shower and on the walk home do the bumps and bruises catch up with you. And while he can tolerate the pain, he definitely won't miss it. 
"I guess the only thing I will miss about football is the headaches," Nelson joked. 


1999, 2000, 2001 
r -ffll'f"'rr~m -, 
I 1 Large, 1 Topping I I Breadstlcks I 2 Liter 
I $12.99 I
L ______ ..J 
r------,
Monday and Tuesday .I
I $ 

I 
1 Breodstlcks with any pizza purchase I I IL ______..J 
r------,
I Grand Papa I I 1 Extra Large, I 2 Toppings I
I 
$10,99

L ______..J 
"The most popular # on campus• 
Papa Predicts: 
NOTRE DAME 
Navy --3 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's· 
271-1177 271-7272 
{ND store OPEN ALL NltJHT (home games only) • Limited Del/very area 3am • 11am) 
Saturday 11 am -3 am Sunday Noon ,-1 am 


LISA VEL TE/The Observer 
Eric Nelson, rear, works on a drill in practice this week. Nelson was hit on the head with a baseball bat before he came to Notre Dame. 

What he will miss, however, is Saturday as a special teams play­his teammates and the friends he er. has made through football. "It's a hard thing to sacrifice 
"You go to practice and you are and not be selfish," DeBolt said. with the guys who are going "Those guys exemplify college through the exact same stuff you sports." are going through every day," he Nelson would probably just said. "It's like a companionship ... shrug off that praise. After all, he They know what I have to go just wanted to play football and through every day." not a bruised brain, a broken arm 
Nelson's dedication to the team or a glory-less role on the scout without any chance of getting into team was going to stop him. a game is inspiring according to fellow walk-on Chad DeBolt. DeBolt plays on the scout defense Contact Mike Connolly at but also gets into the games on connolly.28@nd.edu. 

-21 


*Category not offered in 1998 
., 

l.f £ .11> 
Friday, November 16, 2001 page 11
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
ADAM TIBBLE 

Focused forward 

Poised holder known for 
fake field goal and trip to 
Kenya, but looks to future 
wanted a piece of the man who 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 

made the pitch. Someone Associate Sports Editor 
wanted to take a picture -of 
his hands. He couldn't believe 
People seem know Adam the attention he got just for 
Tibble for only two reasons. running what he deemed a 
Last year, in Notre Dame's simple play. 
final home game .of the season "LoVocchio or Carlvle do that 
against every third play," he said. "It 
Boston 
was really fun to do -to have 
College, he the ball and go running around 
made a like high school. A lot of 
pitch to times, being a kicker or hold­
Nicholas er, you're not in same athletic 
Setta on a role you were in high school, 
fake field so it's cool to step back -into 
goal that that. That's up there with one 
resulted in of the most rewarding experi­
a touch-Tibble ences, lying on my bar.k right 
down. next to the student section and 
This year, he spent nine hearing everyone go crazy." 
weeks in Kenya helping home­
less children during a summer 

The trip
service project. 

But if making a simple pitchAnd it's fine with Tibble if is one of Tibble's most reward­
that's all people know about 

ing experiences, then his sum­
him. He spends most of his 

mer in Kenya is hands-down
time looking toward his next the most rewarding one.

goal, anyway. 

He spent nine weeks with
'Tm absolutely flabbergasted fellow Notre Dame anthropolo­at the attention I get," he said. 

gy student Marita Eibl in
"None of the players on this Kisumu, a city the size of 

team, you're never bigger than 

South Bend, eating bad food
Notre Dame. I don't see a lot of 

and sleeping in deplorable
other holders on other teams 

conditions. During his stay, hegPt grPat attention. It's fun to 
helped with a program
talk, and it's not annoying, but 

designed to get Kenyan chil­
you kind of want to get back 

dren off the streets and volun­into the calm, and the being 
teered at a local hospital
efficient. You don't have to 

emergency room.
notice me; you don't have to "It's something that when I 

pay attention to me. I'll just go was there, I thought, 'What the

back there, catch the ball, and 

heck am I doing'? I don't need
do my job." 

to be here, I don't want to beThat's the modest, selfless here,"' he said. "But the far­
attitude of the player who 

ther you get away from it, you
openly embraces his role as a remember the good stuff and

holder on all of Setta's field 

you remember what made it sogoal attempts. There's no dif­rewarding."
ference between the Tibble 

During his stay, Tibble said
that races onto the football 

he realized just how fortunate
field to hold place kicks and he was at Notre Dame. In thethe Tibble who has the highest 

hospital one day, a man wasgrade point average -3.918 
wheeled in who had suffered 
-of any member on the foot­from a stroke. While most of

ball team. There's no attempt 

Kenya is attempting to 
to exaggerate 'his own impor­Westernize, the hospital still 

tance or brag about everything 

didn't have the medical
he's accomplished. Instead, 

resources like the Unitedthere's an unwavering eye 
States has. There were no IVs
fixed clearly on his duty. 

available and the only medi­"He's real confident and he 
cine given the man was some 
puts in the time no matter 

aspirin. Ile finally saw a doc­what it is," said Tibble's best tor, about 40 minutes after hefriend and fellow walk-on Matt first arrived.
Sarb. "And he gets the job Another day, Tibble was

done." 

walking past the local dump site when a tractor arrived The pitch pulling a trailer full of trash. 
For the first 10 games of the Immediately, dozens of young season last year, Tibble was men gathered around the trail­relatively unknown. In fact, he er and began sorting through might have been best known the trash for items to take for being the first person to back to their family. congratulate Setta after he "I've never seen anything kicked a game-winning field like it." he said. "People were goal against Purdue. literally living out of a dump, 
But that all changed with out of the trash you and I one pitch. throw away every dav. 
Late in the third quarter, There's houses made out ;)f Irish head coach Rob Davie trash bags and cardboard called for a fake field goal the boxes. It's literally a different Irish had been working on all culture." week. Tibble ran onto the vYhile Tibble adrhits he field, read the defense, took couldn't wait to get back to the the snap and pitched the ball United States, lw is incredibly to Setta milliseconds before grateful that he made the trip ~etting leveled by a Boston in the first place. Tibble will College defender. Setta ran enter medical school rwxt year five yards for a touchdmvn that and hopes to make it back to gave the Irish a 28-10 lead. Kenya in the future. 
After the game, everyone "In the end, it was worth it," 
he said. "Coming back, you really have a sense of appreci­ating the opportunity. The opportunity to learn at a place like Notre Dame -it's incredi­ble. I saw street children who don't have those opportunities. I'm sitting here, and I better take something away from it." 
The person 
That's the attitude Tibble has had his entire life. \Vhen he broke his leg in high school and was told he couldn't kick anymore, he didn't listen. When he wanted to make an impact on the football team but was only a third-string kicker. he kept a positive atti­tude. \Vhatever he's been handed in life, he's bC'en detPr­mincd to make the most out of anything and everything. 
"I would like to describe myself as poised and focused," he said. "Really focused. School always came first hen~. I focusPd on academic goals and athletic goals as well. I always had a dream of playing. even when I wasn't." 
Tibble, who kicked in high school, initially walked on to the football team in the spring of his freshman year as a kick­
• 
er. While he was accurate, his leg strength didn't compare to that of Setta and David Miller. So he looked at holding. 
"After figuring out what goes on when someone holds, I really started working on it over the summer," he said. "It turned out to be a lucky situa­tion ... We would work so much before practice, I would hold, and they would do the kicking. I owe a lot to Dave Miller because he suggested, 'What would it be like with Adam in there'?' From there on, it was pretty fun." 
Tibble admits he foels some pressure -after all, his only job on the team is to catch the snap and put the ball on the ground, and if he messes up, everyone notices. On his first hold -which was also Setta's first kick -he remembers just how nervous he was. 
"The first time, I got down, I couldn't foe I my leg I was so nervous," he said. "I looked back at Nick, and I thought to myself, 'I can't feel my leg. I'm glad I'm not kicking right 
HO\'\'.'" 
But Tibble made a good hold, Setta hit the kick, and since then, it's been all business every time the field goal unit runs onto the field. 
"When someone does their job so well, you take them for granted and you forget about how much pressure there is," Setta said. "Adam's like that. He does his job and every time it goes down, it's perfect." 
"He's so focused and so relaxed and so confidtmt in his abiiities, I don't think h(~'ll have any problems," said Sarb. ''lle's been perfect all year like he was last year, and that's just how he is. He's a perfec­tionist." 
However, Tibble isn't the type of individual to spend much time dwelling on his suc­cessns in the past and in the presp,nt. Jle's not going to toot his horn or brag about his multitud,~ of accomplishes. 
\Valking on to the football team is in the past. Traveling to Kenya is in the past. Tibble kPeps looking toward the future. 
"There's a lot more footballs to catch," he said. "And that's what I'll do, just catch the ball." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 


page 12 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 16, 2001 
MIKE KLOCKNER 

Silent Klockner lets actions speak for him 
By JASON McFARLEY Sports Writer 
lf only Mikt~ Klockner had let his voke, and not hi" play, do the talk­ing for the past two seasons, then hi" teammatn and friend Matt Sarb might have 
concentrated his attention elsewhere. 
"My main focus work­ing with him is trying to get him to talk," Sarb 

kidded about Klockner fellow senior walk-on Klockner. "Heally, he's one ofthe quietebi guys on the team, but he's a great kid. He's got a great heart and loves Notre Dame." 
It's maybe just as well that team­mates and coaches speak volumes of prai'ie about Klockner, a reserve cornerback since spring of 2000. The religious, soft-spoken 22-year­old would rather play ball than tell all. 
· He rarely discloses, for exrunple, the success he enjoyed on his Newark, Ohio, high school football team. He wa'i starting quarterback at Newark Catholic his sophomore through senior seasons. 
"We made the [regional finafs] my sophomore and senior year," Klockner said, his voice clearly uncomfortable articulating hi-, suc­ces._<,. "I was fortunate to be an all­state quarterback my junior and senior years." 
But to hear 10-year Newark Catholic c,<lfil:h Jeff Buchanan tell it, 

good fortune had little to do with Klockner's accompli"ihment. 
"I le gave maximum effort and did whatever it took to succeed," Buchanan said. "I le wa'i the ulti­mate citizen that you could ever want to coach, and he was still abfo to be a tremendous leader. He's an inspiration to our schcXJI still today. AU our folk'> love Notre Dame." 
Klockner's collegiate track. in fact, led him to South Bend but not immediately to Notre Dame. He spent three semesters at Iloly Cross College. He transferred to the University as a sophomore in January 2000. 
Football tryouts were the next month, and the possibility of walk­ing on to the team awoke in Klockner an old desire to play col­lege ball. Hi" childhood dream was calling. 
And in his typical fashion, Klockner responded -with hard work and as few quietly uttered words a'i possible. 
"I always knew I wanted to play football in college," said Klockner, who made the squad as a quarter­back and was quickly moved by coaches to the comerback position. "I just tried to do my best. I was very determined." 
And Klockner is a better player for it, said David Lockwood, his posi­tion coach. Lockwood recalled the first weeks he worked with No. 14. 
"He came in during the spring and was a guy that obviously eajoyed playing the game. From day one of spring practice to day 15, there was definitely improvement in him. He definitely got better. 
"He's a kid that's not going to be the biggest, not going to be the fa<;test, not going to be the strongest, but he tries to give you everything he can out there on the field," Lockwood said a.bout the 6-foot-2, 151-pound Klockner. 
That was the case even when coaches switched him from the offen.c;e to the dcfen.'ie. 
"He's still really relaxed, really composed, which is hi'i quarterback nature, and with that, he's able to work well out there," Sarb said. 
"Mike's one of those guys who has a strong faith, and I think that's helped him a lot ... because they switched him positions when he got here," added senior Timmy O'Neill, also a walk-on.. "I know that wa-; hard for him, but he stayed positive and he's got a good attitude about it. He's adjusted well. He's a good ath­lete. Switching positions is tough, but he's been able to do it well." 
And without raising a big stink. 
"It's been a little different," Klockner admitted, "but it's a great challenge to try to keep up with those guys, those receivers." 
With that attitude in tow, Klcx:kner in college has strayed little from the strict work ethic and Christian values that earned him recognition in prep football even when his words did not. 
On a given day, he attend<, team weightlifting sessions at 6:30 a.m. He goes to three morning classes from 8:30 to 11:30. He works in the Office of the Prebident for two hours · in the afternoon then hustles to team meetings and practice until 6 
p.m. Dinner and studying end the night. 
Sometimes the theology major makes time to visit the Grotto. It's fit­tingly hi<; favorite place on rarnpus. 
"I always felt a special presence there. It's a very special setting for me," Klockner said. 
One day he expects that he'II teach high school and return to the gridiron as a coach. His experience on the Notre Dame field will serve him well. 
"It's been a great experience. It really has. I just feel very fortunate to have had the opportunity," he said. "Being a member of this team required hard work, so I can take that with me. It's taught me to work even harder. It's taught me to be unselfish." 

And it's taught him the value of stepping up in instances where he wasn't likely to speak up. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 
DWAYNE FRANCIS 

Humble player modest about earning scholarship 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK Assistant Sporn Editor 

Dwayne Francis ha<.; many rea­,' sons to be proud. Ire i'> the only senior walk-on thatI ha'i eanmd a scholarshipl while at I Notre Dame. 
f 
j lie is gradu­ating a semester early. lie runs. the 40 in 4.43 sec-I onds, mak-Francis ( ing him orn,


! 
of the fastest players on the team. But Francis is also one of the 

most humble people you could ever i meet, an intelligent player andI leader on the scout aµd special
l 
teams. "Dwayne's a great leader out 
! 
there," said John Dt'Filippo, the graduate assistant in charge of Franci'i' section of the scout team. 
"He's a smart player, who never has to look at the cards (that show I what coverage to play)." Francis believes his leadership 
makes it easier to emulate the ot11er team's coverage." 
And Francis understands the role the scout team plays in preparing the offense for the weekend's game. and making sure the rest of the scout team players understand the importance ofthat role. 
"I think I've been able to help the freshmen on the scout team," said Fn:mcL<,. "We're helping the offense prepare for the game, and (its importantIto challenge ourselves." 
Francis' jourrrny as a Notre I)ame football player began while he wa.., still at Elkins Iligh Sch<XJI in 1louston, TextL.<,. Ile attended Not.re Danm's football can1p the summer after his junior year, and impressed then-Irish defensive backs coach Tom McMahon so much that he wa"i invited to walk­on when he got to South Bend. While several other Division I schools offered Francis scholar­ships, he passed them up to atUmd Notre Dame. 
"I always wanted to go to school here,'' said Francis. "I chose a.c:ade­mics." 
But after Francis arrived, McMahon left to coach at Colorado, and Frar1ci"> did not get the opJX)r­tunity to showcase his skill., on the bination of ability and dedication. 
"I'm guessing they evaluated me, and I was chosen," said a humble Francis. "When I came here I didn't have intentions of watching -I wanted to come here and play." 
Francis would play more his junior year, but he would be chal­1enged by his arch-nemesis throughout the 2000 campaign: injuries. 
Francis started the sea'iOn on the kickoff and ptmt return tean1s, but pulled hi'i hamstring in t11e Purdue game after making his first career tackle against Nebraska a week earlier, one of multiple hamstring injuries Francis has sustained in his college career. 
Francis returned to the field against Navy a month later. He played on the special teams and even saw time in the defensive backfield at cornerback. But the week after Francis finally saw the field as part ofthe Irish defense, he tore his medial collateral ligan1ent in his knee on a kickot[ an injury mostly due to West Virginia's Astroturf field. 
"The guy turned me, and my leg got stuck in the turf," said Francis. That would be the last play 

BRIAN PUCEVICH.n"he Observer 
Senior Dwayne Francis drops back into coverage earlier this week. Francis is the only senior walk-on to earn a scholarship. 

on the scout team comes from hi-, field until sophomore year, playing Francis would participate in his 
his December graduation, FrancL'i ment ... and then -maybe in the 

experience both as a senior and as in the Pittsburgh, Boston College, junior year. But Franci'i ha'i never 
already knows what he wanl'i to do fa'ihion or entertainment industry 

a player who has experience with and Stanford games as "gunner let his injuries justify sulking or ,.
with his future. -or as an entrepreneur.

the first-team defensive unit. control" on punt returns, which having a negative attitude. 
"I want to get my MBA, hopefully After hi<; hard work and success 

"From a scout team pp,rspective, meant he covered the opposing "Dwayne's an effort guy, and ht:~ 
starting m~xt fall," said the Texa<; as a walk-on at Notre Dame, it's 

I have experience and I know the u~ams' players that were split wide does a great job," said Defilippo. 
native and Management hard to picture Francis knowing
"l I I . " 

in.<; and oul'i," said Franci'i. "I think in a punt formation. e never comp mns. 
Information Systems major. "And anything but success. 

it all stems from the fact that I've After two sea"ions as a walk-on, This season, Francis has seen 
then after that, I'm interested in 

tak(~n snaps with the dcfonse, and Francis earned a scholarship, the time on Sl)('dal umms: but not with 
working for an oil company in their Contact Jeff Baltruzak at 

knowing the coverage for our team coaching staff recognizing hii;; com-the (ri<;h defons(•. A'i he approaches 
!information technology) depart-jbaltruz@nd.edu. 
Friday, November 16, 2001 

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

CHAD DEBOLT 

Greatness personified 
Special teams 
player also excels on 
lacrosse field 
desire. 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 

"I said 'If you are sure you Sports Writer 
want to do it, then do it,"' 
Corrigan remembered. "This is 
Chuck Lennon told Chad his time, not mine." 
DeBolt not to come to Notre After spending his e_ntire 
Dame. freshman year with the lacrosse 
0 n l y team and earning a monogram, under one 
he talked to Bob Chmiel, then­condition coordinator of football opera­C O U l d tions, about walking onto the DeBolt football team. · enroll at "I told him I would stay here t h e all summer and be dedicated to University, football. I just wanted to work the director out with the team and prove of the myself," DeBolt said. A l u m n i DeBolt So in the summer of 1999, he Association stayed in South Bend and told him. worked out. By the end of the 
"He said 'Chad, if you want to summer, his athletic ability come to Notre Dame to be good, earned him a roster spot. don't come here. But if you DeBolt spent his entire sopho­want to be great, come to Notre more season on the scout Dame," DeBolt remembered. defense. 
DeBolt took Lennon's advice While his lacrosse teammates to heart. He became captain of participated in fall drills, DeBolt the lacrosse team. He walked got beat up by the starting onto the football team. He offense day after day. excelled in the classroom in an And he loved every minute. five-year engineering program He relished the hitting, thrived that will earn him an MBA and on the contact and thirsted for a civil engineering degree. more. 
In a sense, he has become "I love it," DeBolt said about great. playing scout defense. "I wish 
"You can never be great they would let us tackle." unless you keep improving But at the same time he was every day," DeBolt said. "I am 100 percent focused on playing pretty happy with what has scout defense for the football happened so far but hopefully I team, he never lost touch with can keep building on it and get the lacross.e team. After his better." football practice was over, he 
For all that he has accom­would come over to the end of plished and the positive attitude the lacrosse practice just to he brings to every task, he is check up on his friends. revered by friends and coaches "Pretty much every chance he alike. gets after football practice, he 
"I've been around very few would come over in his pads to people in my life who are as our practice or come into the wholesome, refreshing and locker room and just talk with forthright as Chad De Bolt," the guys," senior midfielder lacrosse coach Kevin Corrigan John Flandina said. "He is down said. "He is one of the great to earth. He never acts like he is people I have ever been around. better than us because he plays You just feel good when you are football and lacrosse." around him." In 2000, DeBolt began to 
When Corrigan recruited develop a distinct role for him­DeBolt as a high school senior self on both teams. In the in Waterloo, N.Y. he knew spring, he became one of the DeBolt was a perfect fit for the top face-off men in the country Notre Dame lacrosse team. for the lacrosse team. In the 
"As soon as I walked out of his fall, he earned a spot on the house, I called my assistant Irish special teams. In addition coach and said we need to get to his duties on the scout this kid," Corrigan said. defense, he was also on the 
But it wasn't any of DeBolt's starting punt-block team and high school lacrosse accom­kick-off coverage team. plishments that impressed Although DeBoJt got in for just Corrigan most. Corrigan was a handful of plays during each more impressed with Chad game, he made them count. DcBolt the person than Chad lie made four tackles, recov­DeBolt the All-American high cred a blocked punt and school midfielder. blocked another punt. DeBolt 
"lie is a Notre Dame kid," brings a lot of enthusiasm to the Corrigan said. "He is a whole­lrish special teams, according tu some kid. Ile has got a wonder­special teams coach Bill ful family and he is cxtn~mely Sheridan. committed to them. Ile was "That's his whole deal. That's respectful with his parents and his mission," Sheridan said respectful with his younger sis­about DeBolt's play on special ters who idolize him. You just teams. "He's more enthused can't help being impressed with than some of the other guys him and the way he handles because this is his chance to get himself." into the game and make a dif­
Corrigan was so impressed ference." with DeBolt as a person, that In 2001, DeBolt has accom­the midfielder's desire to walk plished even more. He contin­on to the football team didn't ued his dominance of face-offs even phase him. Corrigan knew for the Irish in the spring as that DeBolt was passionate they advanced to tht1 NCAA about lacrosse and passionate semifinals for the first time about football. Ile wasn't about ever. In the fall, he continues to to stand in the way of either be a leading .player on special teams with three tackles. 
As much as DeBolt loves sports, but when he was con­fronted with a conflict between athletics and his family, he nat­urally chose his family. 
Just before the USC game on Oct. 20, DeBolt returned to New York to be with his mother. His mother, Jamie, had spent most of the fall in the hospital due to complications from what was supposed to be a minor surgery. She has undergone two more surgeries and still requires two more. She was finally returning home a few days before the game ..and DeBolt wanted to be there with his mother. It meant sacrificing a chance to play against Notre Dame's greatest rivalries at home, but for DeBolt, it was an easy decision. 
"I admire her so much," he said. "[lier] recovery has been one of the things that kept me going this year." 
Ilis mother has finally recov­ered enough to possibly make the trip out to South Bend. DeBolt family trips to South Bend for games is quite a pro­duction. Two huge campers roll up behind Turtle Creek Apartments filled with most of his family. His uncle, aunt, cousin, grandmother and grandfather have come out for every game. If his mother is feeling strong enough, she along with his father, brother Patrick, 15, and sisters Mariah, 11, and Taylor, 10, will also make the journey. 

"They're the most kind heart­ed people you will ever meet in the world," Flandina said. "They are amazing people. They will welcome you into their home and treat you like gold." 
If his parents could watch his last game this year, it would be very special for DeBolt. 
"It would be great," he said. "My parents haven't had a chance to come and see me this year. That would be especially great for the last home game." 
As great as DeBolt has been, he given so much of himself in so many diflerent areas that he hasn't really achieved his true potential in one single area. If he had only played lacrosse, he might be an All-American rather than just a face-off expert and defensive specialist. 
"We were hoping that Chad would develop like !former Irish AII-Americansl Jimmy Keenan and Steve Bishko," Corrigan said. "\Ve thought Chad had that potential but not if he spends his off-seasons pumping iron for football. It's changed his role ... But this is his college experience and I want him to get everything he wanted out of 
it... 
If he had only been a walk-on player, he might be a little big­ger and fighting for some play­ing time on defense. 
"I know the defense basically but if you asked me a specific assignment, I might not know it," DeBolt said. "So [lacrosseI has kept me from progressing to a new role." 
But sacrificing a little in each sport so he could do both is not a problem for DeBolt. 
"You have to give up some things for other things," l)eHolt said. "I think my experience here is the greatest thing that could have happened to me. I've had a chance to meet football players and lacrosse players. I've played in Notre Dame Stadium. I've played in the NCAA Lacrosse Championships. You couldn't ask for much more." 
And Notre Dame couldn't ask for much more from Chad DeBolt. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 

r~'"~'
! l..££,i!.\) 
~ ~ ~ I'  page 14 ========================== The Observer . PAID ADVERTISMENT =============::::::::====================================================== Friday, November 16, 2001 ==================================  
~  

i;s 
j 


.,. 


.. A .~illion Reas'ons . A Singk Store ® 
One Stop Shopping For All Your 
Tailgating Needs 
. 
hot & cold drinks . Coolers +chips ·+snacks +ice 

. 
hot dogs . hamburgers . fried chicken •sausage +sandvviches . deli trays . bread . buns . Salads 

. 
blankets +hats/gloves . Chairs +accessories 





*Exclusive to Meijer* 

*Ga1ne day attire *Car flags *Window clings *Irish Sweatshirts & T-Shirts *Football Yearbooks *ND Women's Championshipe~ Basketball Videos 

Anet 111uch, much. more...
rm,~j9. w 




) : 
Visit us at: -5020 Grape Road 3600 N. Portage Road Open 24/7 for all your shopping needs  

1/ 


(EE.I~'> 
Friday, November 16, 2001 page 15
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
CHRIS MAHONEY 

Career begins with 3 football roommates 
By JOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 
Sometimes life takes an unex­
pected series oftwists and turns for 
the better. 
When Chris Mahoney arrived on the Notre Dame cam­pus as a sophomore transfer from t h e University of Holy Cr<~ss in Worscester, Mass., he n e v e r thought he would be rooming with three Irish football players, and never in his wildest drnarns did he think that he would walk-on to the Irish football team a year later. 
After all, Chris Mahoney had never played organized football at any level in his entire life so the idea of playing college footbaJl ­let alone at the most legendary col­lege football program in the coun­try -seemed absolutely crazy. 
"When I transferred to Notre Dame, the rector at Keough I Iall, Father Tom Doyle, just randomly a'iSigned me to be the fourth mem­ber of a quad with Shane [Walton], Joey fGetheralll, and Tony [Fisher]." said Mahoney. 'Tm a big guy so all year long they kept telling me to try out. When I told them I played basketball in high school and that I had never played football ever before in my life, Tony just told me that the coaches would teach me what to do. 


"At first, I thought they were ridiculous or just trying to play a trick on me, but then I thought about it some more. I realized that I would regret it for the rest of my life ifl didn'tjm;t give it a try." 
As a kid growing up in Westford, Mass., Mahoney wa'i a huge Irish football fan fascinated by the mys­tique and tradition of Notre Dame. He was extremely nervous before tryouts, but the encouragement of his roommates motivated Mahoney to give football a shot. 
"They kept pushing me to try out, and I kept reminding myself that this was a once in a lifetime chance to play football for Notre Dame," said Mahoney. "The first day at tryouts were mainly agility drills, and I survived those. After that, I decided I wao;; going to com­mit myself to walking on to the team." 
No one was more surprised about Mahoney's decision to play football than his parents and his brother Pete, a 1998 Notre Dame graduate. The Mahoneys had always been big Irish fans, but they never dreamed that their son would one day wear the famous gold helmet. 
"When I told my parents and my brother, they were shocked," said Mahoney. "They didn't believe me at first because I had never played football before and hereI am trying to walk-on to the most famous col­lege football team in the country. My parent,; are really proud that I chose to walk-on because it has made my Notre Dame experience so much better. We just sit back and laugh about it now because it is still very hard to believe." 
Walking on at Notre Dame has been a tremendous experience for Mahoney because he has formed special bonds with his teammates that he will carry with him the rest of his life. Mahoney feels that as a walk-on, he ha.;, earned the respect of both his teammates and the coaching staff because of the per­sonal sacrifices he has made to be a member of the team. 
"We're not out there for the per­sonal glory or some of the same reasons the scholarship players are out there," said Mahoney. "It's not easy to balance the tough academ­ic schedule at Notre Dame with playing football, but I love being a part of the team. My job is to make those guys better. When we play well on Saturdays, I get a great feeling of personal satisfaction that I did my job to help prepare the team." 
While Mahoney has yet to appear in a game during his career· at Notre Dame, head coach Bob Davie has taken notice of outo;;tand­ing work ethic and how far has come a,;; a football player over the last two years. In his press confer­ence Tuesday, Davie singled out Chris's story. 
"We have a kid from Massachusetts that we took to the Boston College game, a lineman [Mahoney] that never played a down offootball here, never played in high school, played basketball, never played football," said ·Davie. "He's been an offensive linemen for us for two years, turned into a pretty good player." 
Chris Mahoney will graduate this spring with a double major in English and Industrial Design, but his career at Notre Dame may not be finished. Mahoney is consider­ing returning for an extra semester next Fall to take some extra design classes and possibly walk-on for one more year at Notre Dame. Even if he never plays a down at Notre Dame, the story of Mahoney is a reminder that you can do any­thing ifyou put your mind to it. 

"Sure it would ho nice to play just one do¼:n on Saturday, but I don't really expect to play." said Mahoney. "It's still a pleasure to put on that gold helmet and run out of that tunnel with my team­mates. It is an indescribable feeling that I will never forget." 
Contact Joe Licandro at jlicandr@nd.edu. 
BRIAN DIERCKMAN 

Biochemistry major balances school, football 
By KATIE HUGHES Sports Writer 
One has to wonder about the getting-to-know-you conversations Brian Dierckman has experienced and the utter astonishment his responses must ·haVf>: produced in the last four years. After all, he's both a football walk-on and a biochem­istry major. 
"It was definitely dif• ficult," said Dierckman, who plays defensive end for the scout team. "They told me from day one I wouldn't be able to do it. 
Dierckman, who is originally from Fort Wayne, Ind., walked on during the winter of his freshman year, doing winter workouts and drills, and running with the team until spring football began. 
"It was one of the scariest moments when I saw guys like Mike Rosenthal and Tim Hitter," said Dierckman. "Seeing all those guys, I thought Tm never gonna make it."' 
He made it. But not without help from fellow walk-ons and a cheer­ing section from Fort Wayne. 
"My parent,; were probably my strongest supporters, and also the other walk-ons," said Dierckman. "We really look to each other for support. They were starters in high school. Then. coming to col-lege we all had to adjust, to coach­es not knowing your narpe, being a tackling dummy. I couldn't have done it without them." 


Working with strength coach Mickey Marotti, Dierckman went from being 6-fnet tall and 200 pounds his freshman year 6-foot-2 and 250 pounds. 
"Brian brings a great work ethic to the team," said graduate a."isis­tant John Dl~Filippo, who runs the scout team defense. "He's a leader and gets the team going, and he's a really laid-back, likeable guy." 
But a.;, Dierckman devoted extra time to football during his fresh­man and sophomore years, his studies suffered. 
"When I first came, I had crazy dreams. I thought if I worked hard, I'd have a chance to start. So I spent a lot of extra time working out, devoting too· much time to football, neglecting studying. My GPA was not as high as it could have been," said Dierckman, who did get to go on one trip with the team this sea'ion. 
Finding a balance between one of Notre Dame's most challenging majors and playing football for Dierckman, a former Alumni Hall resident, meant redefining his own expectations, and realizing his m,vn limitations. 
"I had so many labs and I was missing four practices a week." he said. "That really hurt my chances to play because the coaches didn't really know who I was. But I couldn't sacrifice sleep for study­ing, I wouldn't make it through the day. So I would squeeze in snnrn studying during the day, I would pay attention and take good notes. But I knew I wao;;n't gonna make a 
4.0. I wm, used to getting A-pluses in high school, but I had to work for B's here." 
Part of finding a balance in his lifo a,;; a student-athlet<>: meant giv­ing up some common college-kid activities. 
"I definitely had a different col­lege experience, but I'm not saying I mL-;snd anything. !Being a walk­onl has made me who I am. It's really brought out the best in me," said Dierckman. "If I hadn't done this, I'd be hitting up Heartland every Thursday. I'm not saying that's a bad lifestyle, it's what lots of my friends do, but I wouldn't trade my experience for anything." 
Dierckman had considered going to an Ivy League school, a-; well as Indiana University, Ball State and Purdue, though he hadn't planned on playing football in college until the end of his senior season of playing football at Homestead IUgh School, where he also competed in baseball and ran track. As a kid, he had come with a friend to see Notre Dame football games, and his experiences watching the games stuck in his mind as he decided where he would go. 
"It wasn't one single thing that made me decide on Notre Dame," he said. "But a lot of other guys, sometimes they dog Notre Dame.. A lot of scholarship players don't malize how lucky they are to be at a place like Notre Danie right now. For a lot of them, their primary goal is to get to the NFL They won't fully realize the benefit of 


their education until later." "I don't think anything could be After he graduates in December, tougher than what I've been ­
after nine semesters, Dierckman through," said Dierckman. hopP.s to go to medical school. A daunting ta'ik, but its nothing com­
Contact Katie Hughes at 
pared to Tuesday full pad prac­
khughes@nd.edu.
tices. 





