
Happy Halloween
PARTLY 
Wednesday
.
CLOUDY 
This year's Halloween has brought questions of security -how about 
OCTOBER 31,
staying in and trying out the latest Playstation 2 thriller/ horror games?
HIGH 66° 
Scene . page 11-12 
2001
Lows1° 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 42 



Town confident in local safety plans 
• But forum dismisses concern of bioterrorism in South Bend 
ByJASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
South Bend and St. Joseph County officials answered at a town hall meet­ing Tuesday the fundamental question of whether the community was pre­pared should bioterrorism strike here, 
In a word: Yes. 
But emergency plans in place in the city and county for weeks now have more to do with quieting public alarm than with any perceived threat among authorities here that anthrax or small­pox would make its way to this mid-: sized Midwestern community. 
"We're as prepared as we can be in this city," Lt. Bill Thompson of the county sheriffs department said at the meeting in the city's downtown con­vention hall. "I think there is room for us to be optimistic [that bioterrorists won't strike here]. based on where we live geographically." 
see PANEL/page 4 




Going all out to be different 
. Halloween is leading one guy to paint himself gold and one girl to turn herself into a fetus 
By SHEILA EGTS 
News Writer 
As students put the fin­ishing touches on their Halloween costumes, sophomore Matthew Ziegler wishes he had started preparing many weeks ago by smuggling cottage cheese out of the dining hall little by little. 
"I was hoping to get a large white garbage bag, fill it all the way with a huge amount of cottage cheese, put it on and go as a zit, but I don't see it happening," said sopho­more Matthew Ziegler. 
While Ziegler's dream costume isn't possible due to a lack cf cottage cheese, senior Ryan Hernandez is going to the extreme to make his cre­ative costume idea a reali­ty. A spray-painting acci­dent sparked Hernandez's idea to become King Midas by painting his body gold from head to toe and 
see COSTUMES/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Notre Drone cancels ESPN agreement 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame has canceled an agree­ment with a company producing a TV show for ESPN that would have given viewers a behind the scenes look at the Irish preparing for 
Saturday's game against Tennessee. 
Camera crews from InterSport, a produc­tion company based in Chicago, had full access to practice and coaches meet­ings Sunday and 

Monday before Irish Davie 
head coach Bob 
Davie pulled the plug on the project. 
"I didn't feel it was a good situation for 
us to be in," Davie said at his Tuesday 
press conference...I just didn't think that 
was something that we needed to do." 
InterSport is contracted with ESPN to 
produce a series of programs going 
behind the scenes with college football 
teams. A show featuring the Miami 
Hurricanes already ran and shows with 
the Oklahoma Sooners. Army and Navy 
are already planned according to Rex 
Lardner,· director of communication for 
InterSport. 
InterSport would film practices, coach­
es meetings and pep rallies leading up to 
the game as well as interview alumni 
and students to "get a feel for the atmos­
phere," if they had filmed the Notre 
Dame program according to Lardner. 
Davie said he didn't feel comfortable 
putting his players and coaches in a situ­
ation where they would constantly be on 
camera. He felt it was a distraction his 
team didn't need. 
"I just didn't think that was something we needed to do," Davie said. 
Lardner said that the show could not 
be produced without complete access. 
Limited access would lead to an incom­
plete show. 
There was no contract signed between Notre Dame and InterSport -only a verbal agreement to give the cameras extra access to the Irish. Notre Dame did not receive any money from InterSport. 
Lardner, a 1965 Notre Dame graduate. said there is no bad blood between his company and the University. Some schools are more receptive to the pro­gram than others, he said. 
"I am sensitive to the needs of the school," Lardner said. "At some schools it will work and some it won't." 
InterSport will still try to produce "The Season" with Oklahoma, Army and Navy as well as continue working on other projects. Its next feature is a "Courage in America" special that will honor rescue workers from the World Trade Center attack. The two-hour special will air Nov. 24 on CBS. 
Contact Mike Connolly at Connolly.28@nd.edu. 


' 
. 
• • ,I: • 

page2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, October 31, 2001 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Keep hope alive 
Concert: Notre Dame Glee . Booksigning: "Keeping . Performance: "The Sexual Assault Awareness 
Everyone has different hair. My dad's hair is short and my mom's is gray. My friend Nicole's hair is great. It is thick and soft. It has body and can be shaped with a curling iron. But my friend Linda's hair is special. It's soft and fuzzy like a peach. Rubbing her 
head is like rubbing a magic lamp. Linda's hair is like a baby; soft and ­warm like her heart. 
Linda's husband was in the Army. She would wear a camouflage hat everyday to treatments. It was fitting as Linda was a soldier. After her 

initial diagnosis at the  Kelly Hager  
young age of 32, she underwent a radical  Copy Editor  
mastectomy on her left  
breast, shortly followed  

by another radical mastectomy on the right when the cancer returned in spite of treatment. 
Linda was a veteran and she was a firm believer in the power of positive thinking. Everyday, as the drugs were being pumped into her veins Linda would chant and encourage me to join her. "I will be strong, I will laugh, I will cry, I will fight, I will win." I chanted alongside her as we began what would be our daily rou­tine for the next month. 
Our discussions were typical: weather, school and family. She liked to talk about plants and her magic Zen garden, but most of all, she liked to tell jokes. As the weeks passed, we delved into more compassionate topics. We began dis­cussing life, and for Llnda, how her life had been affected by cancer. 
I remember asking her how her husband and son were dealing with the issue. In a moment of sheer bravery, I asked her if she ever felt like less of a woman due to the loss of her breasts. Her words will never leave me. "Listen," she told me, "I can live without breasts. You don't have to have cancer to learn that." I smiled shyly feeling stupid for even asking the question. But Linda was not off ended, she continued by sharing the importance of a caring support sys­tem while adding a joke here and there to light­en the mood. "In my battle with breast cancer, I have learned four great truths," she said. "Relationships are not based on breasts, love is priceless, I don't like to vomit, and hair grows back." 
And grow back it has. I had the opportunity to walk in the Race for the Cure with her this year. Together we were quite the sight. Her hair was wild and untamed and mine was so red you could see it from a mile away. During our walk we had much time to rekindle old subjects and catch up on gossip. I told her I thought of her all the time while I was away at college, especially whenever I see the hanging breast examination tag in the dorm room shower. Linda immediate­ly had a story. "My son Julian saw mine in the shower and asked me what it was for. I told him it was there to remind me to do something every month and to show me how to do it. Julian replied, Mama I can't believe you don't know how to wash your boobs." Without missing a beat, Linda was making me laugh again. Arm in arm, we skipped across the finish line with our hair blowing behind us. We had fought, we had cried and we were laughing because together we had won. 
Kelly Hager apologizes to those who were expecting a Halloween column and encourages everyone to instead celebrate life on this last day of Breast Cancer Awareness Month. She may be contacted at khager@nd.edu. Her favorite Halloween candies are skittles. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and· strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday aetpc during exam and vacation periods. The ObselVer is a member of the &soci.accd Press. All reproduction righu a.re reserved. 

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 
Students find faith of their own 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

Sarah Jobe learned to read with the Bible. She spent four days a week at her Southern Baptist church dur­ing her childhood. By seventh-grade she said she felt called to "a life of missions and ministry." And by 11th-grade she knew how she was going to answer that call: by becoming a pastor. But when the Memphis, Tenn., native arrived at University of Virginia her first year, she embarked on a two-year process of defining her beliefs. "I'd gotten to the point where I felt like I knew all the Sunday school answers," said Jobe, a third-year College student. "I really wanted to find God on my own terms, so I pur­posefully did not go to church my first year." Like the day-to-day decisions of whether to go to class or sleep in, or whether to party on a Thursday night, the deci­sion to pursue a religion in college reflects the same choices and freedoms that are associated with life away from home. 

UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY 

R.A. arrested on counterfeit charge 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
While resident advisers are usually expected to report crimes, one University of Kentucky R.A. has recently found himself on the other side of the law. Aaron Murphy, the current RA for Kirwan II second floor, is one of four men who have been arrested recently in connection with what police suspect to be a counterfeit operation. Murphy was arrested on three counts of criminal possession of a forged instrument in the first degree. The arrest came after a joJnt investi­gation between the United States Secret Service and Lexington Division of Police, with assistance from UK's police department. "He seemed like a nice guy," said Cody Jennings, an undeclared freshman who lived on Murphy's floor. "I would've never expected it." Although Jim Wims, UK's director of Residence Life, did not want to discuss this case specifically, he said that if it is determined that staff member has violated their job expectations or university policy, his office would move toward disciplinary action. 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather111 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
\ 

\ I ' 
I 
/
I 
/ 

... ~  
Sund . __ .. :<-~;·;;;~~::~'<~~:::&:.:: '.fv1onr·········' ;,;..«c;,:,:~-~---··---·.:W-:~ :-;-· .: ,•.;:~-­ :'X~l~;~:  ,...~  
,._/"·  
Chicago 65 52 New York 54 48 Tampa 82 66 Showers T-stonns Rain Fl,;rries ~ fa, Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Houston 78 62 Philadelphia 60 50 Washington DC 64 49 v.. ~,,,_ ~ 


Club, Wahington Hall, 8 the faith, making a differ­Undertones," a capella week begins 
p.m. free ence", Father Bill men's group, Notre Dame 
Miscamble, Hammes Notre Glee Club, Hammes Notre 
Dame Bookstore, 3 -5 Dame Bookstore atrium. 
p.m. one hour after the football 
game 

Compiled from U•Wire reports 


BEYOND CAMPUS 
Woman reports rape at unregistered U. of Michigan party 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. violation of IFC policy because the 
An 18-year-old woman told police 
fraternity did not register the event she was sexually assaulted during an so it could be monitored by members unregistered party at the University of the Social Responsibility of Michigan Beta Theta Pi fraternity Committee. house Friday morning. Hustvedt said the incident is being 
Ann Arbor Police Sgt. Paul Curtis looked into by IFC. members of the said Monday night that he could not local Beta Theta Pi chapter and the confirm whether the suspect, fraternity's national organization. described as a black male between "The chapter is treating this as a the ages of 18 and 20, was taken into very serious issue," he said. custody. Beta Theta Pi is not an alcohol-free
later woke up with no clothes on." 

Curtis said the woman took herself house, Hustvedt said. 
It was unclear whether the victim

to University Hospitals after the inci­However, according to the Greek
is a university student or if the sus­

dent, which she said occurred some­system's Social Environmental
pect is a member of Beta Theta Pi.

time before 2 a.m. Friday inside the Management Policy, "any chapter
Interfraternity Council president

house at 604 S. State. that is found having an unauthorized
Mark Hustvedt said he could not

"She believed that somebody put event is subject to an immediate 
comment on the alleged sexual

something in her drink," he said. social probation. the length of which 
assault because it is a criminal inves­

"She then went into the suspect's will be determined by the SRC
tigation.

room, where she passed out, and Executive Board." 
However, he said the party was a 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

....... ......... 
•e •
0 2001 AccuWeather, Inc. cow WARM STATIONARY 

Preuwe: ® © Hl!Jh L­ 'D Show•r•  D Rain  '. D-T•slonna Flurrlff  12D Snow  .Ice  ·•.;'-.,,,;_ ;; : ' ,:::. Sunny  ,,:!···;"' •·, \(··-;· .. ;.· Pl. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore  71 62  52 46  Las Vegas Memphis  76 75  53 55  Portland Sacramento  57 69  47 45  

Boston 48 44 Milwaukee 60 51 St Louis 71 57
q,~,~q~ cQ -i) ~ c!::1 

Wednesday, October 31, 2001 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
MUSIC FROM A PAINTED CAVE 

KRISTINE KAAI/The Observer 

At O'Laughlin Auditorium Tuesday night, the "Rare Tribal Mob Crew" presented musical interpretations of the legends and stories from Taos Pueblo and surround­
Ing communities In Northern New Mexico. 





Secret Service visits students at Saint Mary's 
cy of every former president and his spouse The agency works with local law enforce­Treasury Department exam, and pass the
By STEVI FLOWERS 
retaining a Secret Service detail for life ment to stop counterfeiters that are often background check. 
News Writer 
would change for President Bush and his members of organized crime rings or drug Veal also recommends that potential 
successors. cartels. Technological advances in comput­applicants enjoy traveling. Applicants to the 
Special Agent Robert Veal discussed the For them, the protective detail will end ers, scanners and printers have given crim­Uniformed Division, which provides organization's origin, missions, application after a decade as it was decided that there inals the ability to make better fakes. perimeter security to the White House, vice requirements and typical career progres­was little threat to former presidents after In addition, foreign governments who are president's residence, the Treasury sion in a lecture at Saint Mary's Tuesday. this time and it would free up manpower attempting to cause instability in the U.S. Building, and diplomatic missions in 
While the primary mission of the secret for other tasks. In addition to protecting support some counterfeiters. The Secret Washington, D.C., do not have to have a service is the protection of the president, U.S. officials, the Secret Service also pro­Service maintains a lab in Washington, D.C. degree. The agency hires people in many the first family, the vice president and his vides protection for visiting foreign heads of that contains the world's largest assort­diverse fields including armory, computers. family and cabinet members, this role was state. ment of inks and papers to help its scien­psychology, communication, law enforce­assigned only after the assassination of The Secret Service was begun in 1865 as tists identify the inks and fibers used in the ment and chemistry/biology. President McKinley in 1901. a part ofthe Treasury Department express­fake bills. All agents are required to achieve profi­
Protection of presidential and vice presi­ly for the purpose of stopping counterfeit­Veal offered practical advice to his audi­ciency in handguns, shotguns and subma­dential candidates started in the 1960s ers, a role the agency still fulfills. The ence to help them avoid becoming victims chine guns. Agents are trained in CPR/first after the assassination of candidate Robert majority of agents work in field offices ofthese crimes. . aid, self-defense, evasive driving, discretion 
F. Kennedy. across the nation to stop financial crimes "Most importantly, limit the number of in the use of force and situation avoidance. 
Veal informed his audience that the poll-and identity theft. 
Space Is llmlted. so sl<3n up &s soon as posslblel 
For children who have to deal with the harsh realities of life, Volunteers of America is there to help. We work in communities across the coun­try providing care to abused and neglected children, adop­tion services, child care and emergency shelter. 
The need is great. And we are there to offer support and compassion to create positive change in a child's life. 
Colle_qe Bowl Is I question a.nd 1nswer q1me between 2 le111s of 4. lite questloni cover all subJecb (s1111lu to Trlrlall'ursul/J. 
flrst kound, Tues 6 Thurs, nov.13 615 6pm-12mid notre bame R.oom, 2nd floo, Lafortune 
~ 

Re<3lshatton Deadline: Thursd1y. Movember 8, 5~00pm Cost, fRff!I fRff!! fRff!! FRff!! 
Prizes: Winning Teu11 [1penH p11d hip to DePquw Unlnrslly lo co11pele u311nsl wlnnln9 rea11s fro11 ol~er lnd11u alllnolse colleqes. W11111lng lull Cl kunner Up Tnlft, nu,es pl1ced on I peratuenl pl1que d1spl1yed In L1forlune Student Center. 
R.eqisler al the Laforlune lnfor11&tion Desk, Main Lounqe. Laforlune. 

for 11ore del11ls, c111631-8128 or e1ull fulcher.4@nd.idu. 
Find out how you can help. Please call 1.800.899.0089 or visit our Web site at www.volunteersofamerica.org. 
• / Volunteers 
ofAmerica~ 

There are !10 limits to caring.™ 
As the dollar increases in world curren­cy, foreign counterfeiting is on the rise, and field offices have been opened overseas in cities such as London, Rome and Bangkok. 
TEST VOUR WJTS!ll 
University of notre Dime's 

Colle4e Bowl 

Competition lnfor111atlon 
people that know your Social Security num­ber. With that, thieves can become you." he said. 
Veal recommend that people keep a close watch on their old bills, which often contain personal identification and financial infor­mation, as some thieves will search garbage to find bills. . 
To conclude his lecture, Veal went over requirements for applicants and a basic career outline. All applicants must be U.S. citizens between the ages of 21 and 37, possess a bachelor's degree, have no worse then 20/60 vision, be fit, pass a standard These are taught in crisis simulations. Agents also attend courses on counterfeit detection and other white-collar crimes. 
Veal finished his lecture by explaining the typical progression of new agents. New agents typically spend five years in field offices then spend five years on a protective detail. After that, most rotate back to field offices for five years. After th.is, most stay in the field offices while some return to pro­tective details as supervisors. 
"Most remain field officers since that pro­vides the most stability for family life," Veal said. 
Contact Stevi Flowers at flow09l5@saintmarys.edu 
Wednesday, October 31, 200 I 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
said Lindley, who also called ideas ranging from tradition­Also dressing as a celebri­for greater cooperation al costumes to original and ty, freshman Jake Roffman


Panel Costumes 
between health and other unconventional attire. plans to deck himself out as 
continued from page I 
The twovhour meeting, the second community•wide forum since the Sept. 11 attacks brought together emergency services personnel, a represen· tative from the Cook Nuclear Power Plant in nearby Bridgman, Mich .. and Notre Dame government professor Dan Lindley. 
Panelists agreed that local residents, like most Americans, have been on high alert since the September terrorist strikes and string of anthrax bureaucratic agencies. 
Inter-agency cooperation in St. Joseph County is at an all• time high, Thompson said. The lieutenant pointed to communi­ty response to tornadoes that struck locally last week. 
"I've never seen the agencies and the community work together so well. Last week was the kind of dry run· that makes you a little bit more secure about the county's emergency plans." he said. 
At the heart of local efforts to counter bioterrorism is a plan 
by the County 
Emergency 

cases dating "Last week was the kind Preparedness 
back to Group. The body
ofdry run that makes 
e a r l y includes 19 October. you a little bit more member organi­
L a r r y secure about the county's zations and 
Dygulski of must, by Friday, 
emergency plans ... 
St. Joseph submit a Regional detailed emer­Medical Bill Thompson gency manage­Center said ment plan to the
lieutenant 
staff there county health
St. Joseph's county sheriffs
received in officer. the past few deparbnent Another body, 
w e e k s about 20 reports from people who claimed they had con• tracted anthrax. Memorial Hospital spokeswoman Connie McCahill gave a similar esti• mate. 
Neither hospital treated patients for the bacterial dis• ease. 
"I think the public concern highlights the need for us to be getting information out to the public more," McCahill said. "Our biggest responsibility right now is to educate, edu• cate, educate." 
Police, too, responded to dozens of anthrax-scare cases this month, according to Mayor Steve Luecke, who sat in the audience with nearly 100 other local residents Monday. The number of calls has now start­ed to decline, he said. 
"For a while, we were run­ning our haz[ardous] mat[eri­als] team pretty heavily," the mayor said. 
Both locally and nationally. offici~ls face several challenges combating biological warfare, said Notre Dame's Lindley, a terrorism expert. 
Organizers must identify individual victims, then look for patterns that indicate whether specific groups are being attacked, Lindley said. The next step is coordinating federal and state response. That's a difficult task for any of the existing 3,000 U.S. health agencies, only 20 percent of which have emergency plans dealing with bioterrorism. according to the professor. 
"Put pressure on federal gov• ernment officials. There's not enough money going to public health infrastructure. Tell them that public health is something that is important and deserves more attention," 
the Terrorism 
Consequences Management Group, brings member police, fire, medical and transportation agencies together. That group, formed in mid-October is expected to outline an emergency plan in May. 
Other contingency plans are already in place. 
Jerry McMahon of the Cook power plant said the facility is operating under increased security and has safety mea­sures that are regularly tested. 
"This community is blessed to have a nuclear power plant because there are emergency plans in place that we routinely exercise," he said. 
In South Bend, the newly opened St. Joseph County Jail is equipped to house and feed a few hundred displaced people for several months, according to Thompson. And more than 500 city and county police are trained in emergency manage­ment. 
"We're going to have to rely on ourselves," Thompson said, implying that local authorities are the first line of defense in crisis situations. "The expertise and personnel are in place to do that," he said. 
But even as officials develop new methods to fight emergen­cies, terrorists still accomplish at least one of their goals, Lindley said. The threat of vio­lence and bioterrorism causes alarm in communities, even South Bend. 
"It was right in [Osama] bin Laden's statement of intent that he wanted to .create fear north, south, east and west," Lindley said. "Now we've got it." 
continued from page 1 Sophomore Erin Brady 
thought of her original wearing nothing but a pair Halloween costume idea of gold shorts. while at home for fall break. 
"When we were spray­She returned with a pack of painting the football hel­colorful balloons to put in a mets, Ryan got a little on his large clear bag to make her 
arm  and  gum ball  
thought he looked like  "Last year. I dressed up  machine tume.  cos­ 
M i d as ,·" said fellow senior Phillip Madonia. Although Hernandez is decided  as [Golden State Warriors forward] Chris Porter. but now he is in jail on cocaine charges. I · think I better try something else this year..,  Freshmen Briana Foley and Megan Furman are donning the traditional S a U C y Catholic  
on  a  cos- schoolgirl  
t u m e , Madonia is still looking for one  Phillip Madonia senior  look a la Brittney Spears while freshman  
that will be  Charles  

a better success than his Riffert plans to celebrate as previous Halloween attire. a large manila envelope con­
"Last year, I dressed up as taining a mysterious white [Golden State Warriors for­powder. ward] Chris Porter, but now Junior Jessica Rinaldi and he is in jail on cocaine three friends have made charges. I think I better try multiple costumes and something else this year," invested some serious prepa­Madonia said. ration into their outfits. They 
With just a little bit of are dressing modestly as Girl 
thought and holiday prepa­Scouts for Halloween but ration, Madonia may be one have their seductive Moulin of many students who have Rouge attire reserved for managed to come up with weekend festivities. 
Lars Ulrich of Metallica. He will be joined by fellow freshmen Dan Schnorr dressed questionably as a penguin jockey. 
Some students are baring it all even in the frigid fall weather in South Bend. Junior Natalie Weathered said, "We had some friends who went to Hawaii for the summer, so we will be party­ing in grass skirts and coconuts bras." 
Freshman Grace Arredondo, a serious Halloween fanatic who has spent _the past two nights decorating the entire hall of her dorm. takes pride in her carefully planned apparel and is anxious for her cos­tume debut. 
'Tm going as a fetus and I'm really ready to head out. if you know what I mean," Arredondo said. 
Even in the absence of cot­tage cheese-filled zits, ·this year's holiday attire is still packed with hot, original and amusing costumes ready to be showcased. Ziegler will still join others with his back-up costume and said, ''I'll dress up as a girl in the skirt that I have from last year's Keenan review." 




Cisco Systems chair to speak on campus Friday 
Special to the Observer 
John Morgridge, chairman of the board of Cisco Systems, Inc., will make a presentation· to members of the advisory council for the Mendoza College of Business at 2:30 p.m. Friday in the McKenna Hall auditorium on campus. 
Titled "Cisco Systems: The Network is the Company," the talk will address how Cisco transforms traditional companies into e-busi­nesses through the implementation of key Internet practices and customer-based solu­tions. It is free and open to the public. 
Cisco Systems, based in San Jose, Calif., is a worldwide leader in networking for the Internet. A company that did not exist 15 years ago, Cisco is today the fastest growing firm in the history of the computer industry and the third highest valued company in the world with a market capitalization of more than $300 billion. 
Cisco itself is orie of the best examples of a company using Internet technology to gain competitive advantage. transacting some 80 percent of its orders and customer support via the Web. 
After joining Cisco in 1988 as president and chief executive officer, Morgridge expanded the company from $5 million in sales to more than $1 billion, and from 34 employees to some 2,260. He took the firm public in 1990 and in 1995 was appointed chairman. 
In his current role, Morgridge dedicates his time to Cisco's education and government ini­tiatives. He also teaches part time at Stanford University's Graduate School of r ,1siness and speaks regularly on entrepreneurship and management .strategies at corporations and universities around the world. 
Morgridge earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin and his mas­ter's of business administration degree from Stanford. He has received honorary degrees from the University of Wisconsin, Lesley College and Northern Illinois University. 

HalloMreen Party Tonight Oct.31 
Wear a Costume; 
$1.00 Mixed Drink.s $ l ..00 Bottle Beer Karaoke D..~la Silk ( No (~ostun1e-= $3.00 (~over) 

fl:;l&1b -, 23 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.1@nd.edu 


~e~d;ih-'7I 1,-:J-t-i-Cih-')' a,14d,••• 
;ff.




,,';//f!:!:::4:~:.~~,fu6t 
ca-lt t-5323 tc--,ta,1,;t ~"'i:tih-&> 11.-e~~. 


L?3 ~orth Michigan Stra-t Downtown South 6t-nd (2 blodu North of the State Theatre) Must be over 21 years of age 


ATION 
Wednesday, October 31, 200I COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. ground raid yields few results: 
The collection of documents. computer disks and other material seized during a nighttime raid by special operations forces in southern Afghanistan 10 days ago failed to produce the intelligence bonanza that the Pentagon had sought, government officials said today. 
Israeli troops reluctant to withdraw: 
Despite renewed American pleas that they depart immediately, Israeli troops remained dug in four Palestinian-controlled cities yes­terday. Israeli forces left the towns of Bethlehem and Beit Jala overnight Sunday. But after two shooting attacks on Sunday that were carried out by Palestinians from the northern West Bank, the Israeli army appeared in no hurry today to vacate its remaining positions. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


Study finds nutrition label errors: 
The majority of nutrition bars do not live up to their health claims, and many of their labels misstate the level of carbohydrates they con­tain, a testing organization says. Consumer Lab, released a report yesterday saying 18 of the 30 nutrition bars it tested were improperly labeled. Dr. Tod Cooperman, president of Consumer Lab, said many of the bars underre­ported the carbohydrates they contained. 
School shooter hangs himself: An 18­year-old student who admitted wounding five people at his high school earlier this year com­mitted suicide early yesterday, hanging himself with a sheet in his jail cell. The student, Jason Anthony Hoffman, was found dead at San Diego's Central Jail shortly before 1 a.m. Last month, Mr. Hoffman pleaded guilty to six felony counts in the March 22 shooting at Granite Hills High School in the San Diego suburb of El Cajon. He was to be sentenced on Nov. 8. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 


Annual 'Bar Crawl' leads to arrests: 
State excise police say the Greater Terre Haute Bar Crawl, somewhat of a tradition during Indiana State University homecom­ing activities, may be getting out of hand. Excise police were out in full force last weekend, and they plan to be on hand for future bar crawls, Lt. Thomas Miles told the Tribune-Star for a story published Tuesday. Excise police arrested nine people for pub­lic intoxication and public indecency during the pre-football game ritual Saturday. 

Market Watch October 30 
Dow 9,121.98 -147.52 Jones 

Composite Same: 
Volume: 212 NIA 
AMEX: 826.89 -10.32 NASDAQ: 1,667.41 -32.11 NYSE: 546.74 -9.11 S&P 500: 1,059.79 -18.51 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 INDEX (QQQ) -1. 94 -0. 66 33. 38 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0. 91 +0.15 16. 57 ENRON CORP (ENE) -19.19 -2.65 11.16 INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.65 -0.64 23.54 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -3.25 -0.32 9.54 
AFGHANISTAN 


Associated Press 


WASHINGTON 
A small number of American troops have been on the ground in northern Afghanistan working closely with rebel militias for sev­eral days, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld said. 
Providing the first details of the expanding ties with the resistance forces facing the Taliban, Mr. Rumsfeld said the American forces were working with the Northern Alliance to estab­lish supply routes, improve communications with American commanders and target specific Taliban mili­tary positions for air strikes against the front lines. 

Mr. Rumsfeld said their presence is already being felt in the continuing attacks on the front lines, which today accounted for some 80 percent of the mis­sions flown over Afghanistan. "Because they are there now, the effort has improved in its effec­tiveness over what had been the case previously," he said. 
Although Mr. Rumsfeld declined to be more specific about the number of troops in the region or where they were operating, senior Pentagon officials said there were at least a dozen, but significantly fewer than 100, Army Special Operations forces working in a few, but not all, areas held by the Northern Alliance. 
The special forces teams flew into Northern Alliance territory at night on low-fly­ing helicopters. Once on the ground, the troops began moving about by foot, in trucks and on horseback, according to senior military officials. 
The officials said the teams, which have been in the north for less than a week, may also include Air Force forward air con­trollers who, working with the Army Green Berets, help guide American war­planes to their targets using hand-held lasers, satellite locators and other equip­ment for directing aircraft from the ground. 
On Monday, the Pentagon said, 70 American aircraft, most of them fighter jets fly­ing from aircraft carriers, pounded front-line Taliban positions in the north for the ninth straight day. 
In a sign of the expansion of the war effort, Pentagon officials also said today that Mr. Rumsfeld has notified President Bush that the Pentagon will soon have mobilized more than 50,000 members of the National Guard and Reserve troops. 



Detentions after attacks pass 1,000 
ning tally but declining. in most the Constitution's protections. 
Associated Press 

cases, to provide names and details. Nonetheless, a coalition of civil lib­
WASHINGTON Justice Department officials said erties groups said today that it would 
Justice Department officials said today that they were slowly releasing file a lawsuit against the government today that the number of people who information about some of the demanding that officials identify who had been detained in connection arrests but were prohibited from has been arrested and what charges with the Sept. 11 attacks had sur­doing so in some cases and were not have been filed against them. passed 1,000, and civil liberties required to do so in many others. "The secret detention of more than advocates said the government's Mindy Tucker, a Justice 800 people over the past few weeks is refusal to disclose the identities of Department spokeswoman, stressed frighteningly close to the practice of those held and the charges against that all of those arrested had had 'disappearing' people in Latin them raised the possibility of secret access to lawyers. She said Attorney America," said Kate Martin, the detentions. General John Ashcroft was confident director of the Center for National 
The arrests have been shrouded in that all the actions of law enforce­Security Studies, one of several confusion and secrecy, with the ment officials in the investigation groups that called on the government Justice Department providing a run-had been consistent with the law and today to give out more information. 
page 6 Wednesday, October 31, 2001 
The Observer . NEWS 
Glee Club performs fall concert Thursday, Friday 
Special-to the Observer 
Notre Dame Glee Club will present its annual fall concert Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall on campus. 
Thursday's concert is free and ope_n ~o public. Admission for the concert Fnd~y is $3 and tickets can be purchased m 

advance at the LaFortune Student Center box office or by calling 631­8128. 
Under the direction of Daniel Stowe, the Glee Club will perform folk songs and spirituals, as well as works for men's chorus and string ensemble by Schubert and Mozart. 
A group of 12 students started the 
Glee Club in 1915 with the goal of "com­bining fraternity and festivity with pro­fession al musicianship of the highest degree." The group currently includes 80 members and is one of the outstand­ing male choruses in the COU!}try. 
In recent years it has traveled throughout the United States and around the world, performing in St. 
Peter's Basilica in Rome, Christ Church Cathedral in Dublin, Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris and other major venues. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club has four CDs to its credit, including "Shake Down the Thunder," "Music from the Basilica," "On Christmas Night!" and "Prom the Heart." 


FRANCE 

Paris exhibit celebrate·s Du buff et 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
Always searching for the unex­pected, Jean Dubuffet made art from butterflywings, driftwood and dust. He painted grazing cows and desert camels in a style as spontaneous and unaffected as a child's drawing. 
Dubuffet launched one of his most famous series based on doodles he made during a telephone chat. He swore off the influence of the mas­ters, while he admired art by mental patients. He believed that art should be artless. 
On the 100th anniversary of the iconoclastic French artist's birth, the Georges Pompidou Center in Paris has gathered about 400 paintings, sculptures and drawings in what the exhibit's curator calls the most extensive collection of Dubuffet's work ever shown. Finding a new take on Dubuffet was not easy. 
He produced more than 10,000 works, which are ondisplay in almost every major modern art museum in the world. Some of his pieces -like his white free form polystyrene sculptures -are instantly recogniz­able.So the museum rooted out what Dubuffet did not want remembered -more traditional worksfrom early in his life -to show his development as an artist. Many of these early works emergedonly after the artist's death in 1985. "Dubuffet didn't acknowledge that part of his career. 

He called it his 'prehistory,' cura­tor DanielAbadie said. "These are things we never see, and it seemed impor­tant to his career, he constantly tried to shake off the influences of what he called "suffocating culture." 
"Personally, I have high esteem for the values of savagery: instinct, pas­sion, whim, violence.madness," he once wrote. 
Dubuffet scratched into the paint on some canvases, exposing the col­. ors beneath. He piled tar or plaster onto his paintings, 
s h o w "Personally, I have high then gouged into the textures how it all · esteem for the values of with knives or spoons. fitsto­He used shards ofglass to
savagery: instinct. 

gether." make eyes, or veiny autumn Three passion, whim. violence. leaves to represent fields. whimsi­madness." Some paintings are playful, cal paint­drawn in circus-like colors ed masks with a flat perspective, like 

Jean Dubuffet

f r o m children's drawings. 1935, for artist A 1943 series of gouache example, portraits of passengers in the 
s h o w men with fleshy, too-rosy cheeks. 
One has a forced smile, while another seems surprised. They fore­shadow the almost childlike style that Dubuffet would develop after the war. Dubuffet. who came from a bourgeois family of wine-sellers, took several breaks from the art­world to run the family business. 
He was 41 when he devoted his life to painting in earnest.Throughout 

SOA Watch founder to lecture Friday 

Special to the Obesrver 
Father Roy Bourgeois, founder of the School of the Americas (SOA) Watch, will give a lecture Friday at 4 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. Bourgeois will speak on peacemaking, the poor of Latin America, American foreign policy, and the status of recent efforts to close the SOA, a controversial 
U.S. training facility for Latin American military leaders. 
A native of Lutcher, La.• Bourgeois is a former Navy officer and Vietnam veteran · who entered the Maryknoll Missionary Order in 1972. In 1983 he produced "The Gods of Metal," a documentary film about the nuclear arms race which was nominated for an Academy Award. An outspo• ken critic of U.S. foreign poli­cy in Central America for many years, he founded SOA Watch. an organization which gathers information on the SOA at Fort Benning, Ga., and advocates its closure. He has spent a total of four years in federal prisons for various nonviolent protests against the SOA's activities. 
A product of the Cold War, the School of the Americas was established in 1946 in the Pentagon's Southern Command Headquarters in Panama to train Latin American military officers. It was moved to Fort Benning, on the border between Alabama and Georgia in 1984. 

Many of the SOA's 60,000 graduates have earned international notoriety for human rights abuse. Those best known in this country include former Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega, now serving a 40-year sentence for drug trafficking; Salvadoran death squad leader Roberto D'Aubisson, who is widely believed to have ordered the assassination of Archbishop Oscar Romero; Raoul Cedras, head of the Haitian coup that ousted elected leader Jean Bertrand Aristide; and three of the five Salvadoran military officers U .N. investigators found guilty of the 1980 abduction, rape and murder of four Americans -three nuns and a lay social worker. 
The Pentagon admitted in 1996 that the SOA had used manuals on the use of fear. torture, and truth serum, an admission that added con­gressional pressure to the growing movement against the school. 
Bourgeois' lecture is spon­sored by the Notre Dame chapter of Pax Christi, the Progressive Student Alliance and the Center for Social Concerns. 
Paris subway shows people 
whispering, hanging onto subway 
poles or looking straight ahead 
impassively. 
Other highlights in the Pompidou 
retrospective are glittering collages 
made out of butterfly wings, a kinky 
comic book, a series of desert 
nomads and camels under a 
Saharan sun, and disturbingportraits 
of enormous, misshaped naked 
women. 

International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 
New Napster d~layed until next year 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Concerned that its rivals may get a bigger audi­ence, the head of Napster hopes to press the play button for the embattled song-swapping service sometime next year. 
Konrad Hilbers told technology industry compa­triots at the Webnoize 2001 conference Monday that Napster still needs to license more major record label music before the business is ready to go online, "probably in the first quarter of next year." . . 
It continues an extended off-lme stay for Napster, once the poster child of insurgent online start-ups. But the recording industry's copyri~ht infringement lawsuit brought the Redwood City company to its knees, and Napster has been dark since July. .. 
Sources close to Bertelsmann and Napster con­firm that the German media giant believes the song-swap service can be reborn a winner, and has funded Napster with additional cash totaling about $25 million. 
Other companies that never crossed the largest record labels continue to jockey for position in the burgeoning online music space, hoping to ink lucrative deals to distribute music via high-speed streaming over broadband networks. 






INNSBRUCK 
2002-03 Academic Year 
Come and meet Professor Gemot Giirtler, Director of the Innsbruck Program 
Wednesday, October 31, 2001 119 DEBARTOLO 7:00 PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/--intlstud 
Application Deadline: December 1
Questions? -Weber.l5@nd.edu 
· Wednesday, October 31, 2001 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Law school grants chair to Professor M. Cathleen Kaveny 
Special to the Observer 
M. Cathleen Kaveny, a member of the Notre Dame Law School faculty since 1995, has been appointed the John P. Murphy Foundation Professor of Law at Notre Dame, according to Nathan Hatch, the University's provost. The chaired professor­ship was established with a $5-million grant from the John P. Murphy Foundation of Cleveland to endow three faculty chairs in the Law School for scholars whose teaching and research emphasize moral and ethical values in law. 
"Cathy Kaveny has earned a national rep­utation for her work on the relationship between law and morality," Hatch said. "Her well-regarded teaching and scholar­ship in this field make her an ideal selection for the first of the Murphy Foundation chairs.'~ 
Kaveny addresses topics such as the func­tion of religious discourse in the public square and the role of law as a moral teacher in a pluralistic society. Much of her scholarship focuses on questions in health care ethics, -such as assisted suicide, cloning, and managed care, topics about which she frequently lectures both national­ly and internationally. 
Kaveny has published more than 35 schol­arly articles on issues lying at the intersec­tion of law, morality and religion, and she currently is working on one book on com­plicity with evil and another on the relation­ship between justice and mercy. She has served on the editorial boards of the Journal of Law and Religion, the Annual of the Society of Christian Ethics, and the American Journal of Jurisprudence. 
Kaveny is an active participant in conver­sations about the relationship of Catholicism and intellectual life. She serves on the steer­ing committee of the Catholic Common Ground Initiative founded by the late Cardinal Joseph Bernardin and is a member of the advisory _board for "Notre Dame's Erasmus Institute, which was established in 1997 to focus on reinvigorating the role of the Catholic intellectual tradition in contem­porary scholarship. 
In addition to teaching contracts to first­year law students, Kaveny also teaches interdisciplinary classes in both the Law School and the theology department, where she holds a joint appointment. 
Kaveny was graduated summa cum laude from Princeton University and holds four advanced degrees from Yale University, including her law degree and a doctorate in ethics. Prior to joining the Notre Dame fac­ulty, she clerked for Judge John Noonan Jr. of the U.S. Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit, and practiced in the Boston law firm Ropes & Gray in its health-law group. She served as the Royden Davis Visiting Professor in Interdisciplinary Studies at Georgetown University in the spring of 1998. 
The Murphy Foundation was established by the late John Murphy, chairman of the board of the Higbee Company of Cleveland and a Notre Dame trustee for 36 years until his death in 1969. A native of Westboro, Mass., and a 1912 graduate of Notre Dame, Murphy practiced law in Minneapolis and in Montana before the outbreak of World War 
I. when he joined the Army Air Corps. After the war, he practiced law in Cleveland, eventually becoming president of the Higbee Company. 
Murphy was elected president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association in 1928, and he received an honorary doctor of laws degree from the University in 1952. During his life­time, he contributed more than $650,500 to Notre Dame. Previous benefactions to the Uni_versity from the Murphy Foundation amount to $1.6 million and have funded the purchase of collections and expanded ser­vices in the Kresge Law Library. 


Management professor receives endowed chair 
Special to the Observer 
Robert Bretz Jr., chair and profes­sor of management at Notre Dame, has been awarded the inaugural Giovanini Chair in Management in the Mendoza College of Business, according to Nathan Hatch, the University's provost. 
"Bob has developed a well­deserved national reputation for scholarly excellence," Hatch said. "His contributions in his fields of study, as well as his commitments to teaching and to Notre Dame, make him an ideal candidate for this chaired professorship." 
A member of the Notre Dame fac­ulty since 1997, Bretz specializes in human resource management and the study of job applicant decision processes. He focuses on staffing and selection issues such as how the fit between an individual and orga­nization affects career success. the effectiveness of alternative training philosophies, and the links between individual and organizational effec­tiveness. 
Bretz was cited last year as one of the 10 most published authors of the 1990s in the two leading jour• nals for the field of industrial and organizational psychology. He is a member of the Academy of Management and a fellow of the American Psychological Association 
. and the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology. Bretz is a member of Notre Dame's Academic Council and Provost Advisory Council. He recently was elected to the coordi­nating committee for the University's new strategic planning 
process. 
A graduate of Bethany College in 
Lindsborg, Kan., Bretz earned his 
master's of business administration 
degree and his doctoral degree from 
the University of Kansas. He previ­
ously taught and conducted 
research at the University of 
Kansas, the University of Iowa, and 
Cornell University. 
The Giovanini Chair was created 
in 2000 with a gift of more than $2 
million from Notre Dame alumnus 
Joseph Giovanini and his wife, Jane. 
A native of Rock Springs, Wyo.. Giovanini was graduated from Notre Dame in 1954 with a bache­lor's degree in accountancy. He spent three years in the Navy, worked for another four years with Arthur Anderson in Chicago and Denver and then, with a partner, established his own building and land development business. 
His activities included building homes, apartments, nursing homes, mobile home parks and a shopping center. He also was involved in vari­ous investment interests, including an underground coal mine and cable television. He served for many years on the board of directors of United Cable Television Corp. 
Giovanini served on the advisory council of the College of Business from 1985-88 and was reappointed in 1996. Jane Giovanini, also from Rock Springs, received a degree in nursing from St. Joseph Hospital in Denver in 1954. The Giovaninis are the parents of seven children, two of whom earned master's of business administration degrees from Notre Dame. They make their home in Teton Village, Wyo. 
Psss. .. Keith Scott is coming to play some blues. And it's free. 

O
THE 

BSERVER 

page 8 Wednesday, October 31, 2001 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Par Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAJNT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROIJ...ER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS..........................................:..........••.631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. I@nd.edu SAJNT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .... .............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observ".nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breakjng news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet che editors and 
August 1999 
staff 




POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students ofthe 
University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration ofeither 
inscirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse ' advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Qumions regarding ObservtT policm should be direct­rd to Editor in Chief Mike unnolly. 


Ladies and gentlemen, my hometown is dying. Or if it isn't dying, then it has fallen into a deep coma. 
Oh, I didn't just realize this over break. I've known it for some time, but only now do I feel compelled to discuss the matter. 
In the middle of the nineteenth centu­ry, a small coal mining community cropped up amid the cornfields and gen­Eric Long tly rolling hills of west-central Illinois. Soon the railroad spawned rapid expan­sion and the small community became a Fitter, bustling county seat. Today the town has Happier pretty much stopped growing. In fact, it seems as though it's been the same size (population 4,000) for years. 
When the railroad determined that the town was too small to pass through anymore and no coal mines had been in operation for over one hundred years. the tracks were torn out. The basis of the town's economy and property tax rev­enue is the small family farm. This should tell you a lot about the town. You don't have to be a Willie Nelson fan to under­stand this dire predicament. 
And yet the town still exists, and it is my town. My home­town has a name, but you've never heard of it so I won't bother with it. Just go on assuming that I'm from Chicago when I tell you I'm from Illinois; Chicago is a nice city for the most part, so I don't mind. 
If you want to be technical, I live directly west of Chicago ­20 miles from \he Mississippi River and the great state of Iowa. I've lived there my entire life, so I'm a bit partial to the region. 
But I said my hometown is dying, and I'm prepared to cite evidence for this. 
For starters I'd like to talk about the corporate juggernaut and symbol of American entrepreneurial drive known as Wal-Mart. Most business majors know that Wal-Mart has a way of gutting small towns. It swoops in like a thief in the night, raids the town and leaves it behind. A small Wal-Mart store -not a Supercenter, not even a mid-sized one with the Tire Service and Photo-mat -was built in my town approxi­mately 15 years ago. Almost immediately afterwards several downtown businesses closed their doors (Wal-Mart always locates itself in a town's sprawl, away from the carnage it creates in the business district). Apparel stores were particu­larly hard hit. Wal-Mart has even become the leading grocery store in the town, although the store sells no alcohol {essen­tial to the dying small town). 
Next I'll deal with the bars, taverns and bowling alleys. Small town bars are always dreary dives packed to the gills with "locals" and "regulars." And I mean always packed. If you drive by the bar on a Saturday morning, the same contin­gent of cars will be there that is there every week night. When college students drink on Saturday mornings or every day of the week, it is of course cute and fun. When adults don't take a day off from drinking, something may be wrong. 
Also the town's one bowling alley remains a social hub even though no one in America, with the exception of the Dude, has really bowled since the mid-80's. I'll say no more. 
What's next? I suppose churches come after bars. My hometown has churches upon churches. The person-to­church ratio probably approaches 20 to 1. This is a bit of an exaggeration. But over the past few years, my town has become increasingly "Christian." This means that sales of "My boss is a Jewish carpenter" bumper stickers and "VVVVJD" bracelets have increased dramatically (most likely purchased at Wal-Mart). while actual spiritual health may have declined. 
The final, mind-numbing proof of a small town's impending demise is the enthusiasm for high school athletics. Don't mis­interpret me. I understand the love for high school sports, especially in a small town setting where one might have younger siblings, cousins, second cousins, nieces or nephews on the team. But why should a high school athletic event be the only thing capable of bringing the entire town to_gether? My romantic vision of small town unity involves lively town hall meetings, free concerts in the public square and well­attended parades on major holidays. To lack these things and attempt to compensate with sports must be a sign of a town's life slipping away. 
I'm not making a joke. I sincerely care about my town. The fact of the matter is that small town life has distinct advan­tages. I never lock my car. I know my neighbors and the local merchants, who do all the little things like remembering what brand of cigarette I smoke so that they have it ready when I walk into the store. When I step out on a clear night, I see the stars; when I take a deep breath, my lungs are filled with refreshing air (unless I'm downwind of the hog confine­ment). 
If I have indeed touched you with my sorrowful account, feel free to contribute to the "Save the Small Towns" fund. Send checks, or cash if you've got it. to 341 Zahm, or just slip it under my door. 
Eric Long is a senior PLS major. His column runs every other Wednesday. He can be reached at Long.31@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maribel Morey Spencer Beggs Van Giles Graphics Justin Krivickas Jimmy Atkinson 
Sports Production 
Katie Hughes Jeff Baltruzak 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Sheila Flynn Kylie Carter 

POLL QUESTION 
Is excessive tailgating a problem at Notre Dame? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"What's your favorite scary movie?" 
Scream 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Wednesday, October 31, 2001 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Notre Dame must combat fierce Tennessee fans 
This week the University of Tennessee descends upon our campus. I am from Knoxville, and I have been raised on the football lore of the Volunteers. In my previous life before Notre Dame, I even cheered for this particular team to win. But as I looked at the schedule for 2001, I saw that my new school would be playing the University of Tennessee. Through much discernment, great prayers and supplications, I converted football teams, leaving behind my former life. The conversion experience can only he compared to that of St. Augustine's. 
This week the Irish are in danger. UT is a team that smells blood (believe me, I was home over fall break, and I heard enough of the trash talk that will accompany the fans on November 3rd), and they are going to be up here in full force. They are a people who are most similar to Nebraska in fan base. Their col­ors are extremely bright (bright orange), and they are prone to painting their vehicles this particular color. And here at Notre Dame, we stand 3-4 about to have a number seven team who desires a repeat of the "Miracle in South Bend" where they won at Notre Dame stadium in the early 90s. As the student body, we must unite and not allow them to have the same impact that Nebraska had on our stadium last year. They will be willing to pay any amount of money to enter the stadium. If you have a ticket, don't sell it to a UT fan. And as far as colors go, 

UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 
So are we getting a little terrorist­crazy? Now not only has Clear Channel put out a list of songs that may be inap­propriate to play on their radio sta­tions, but movie rental businesses 
Editorial Staff 
are putting warn­ings on terrorist­themed movies. 
Daily
Movies already 
Collegian

come with ratings that warn viewers of a movie's con­tent. Also, any literate person can read the back of the movie box that provides possible viewers with an overview of the movie. In general we usually know what the movie we are renting is about. Rarely do people go out and rent movies that they have no knowledge of. 
But now we are being forewarned. Blockbuster has decided to add warn­ing labels to movies like Die Hard, Swordfish and others with plots that include terrorism. The movie business is trying to become our parents, saying "Beware of the content." 
This may be better than pulling the movies off the shelves. On the other hand, movie rental businesses are not allowing us to continue on with our lives like our own President George W. Bush requested the c·ountry try to do. Instead they are constantly throwing terrorism in our faces, and consequent­
ly could be simply helping to create and 
add to public panic. 
And now new movies and television shows that were taped before the ter­rorist attacks are editing out any World Trade Center shots they may contain. They, in essence, are telling us to forget that these buildings, these landmarks of our country, ever existed. When some­one loses a loved one, do they then throw out any pictures they have of that person? That, essentially, is what people are doing with the World Trade Center. 
People need to grieve and react, in their own ways, to the tragedy of Sept. 11, but we can't rewrite history. We can't just forget that this happened, and we can't pretend to forget the World Trade Center existed. And we need to make our own decisions about what movies offend us --not have oth­ers make them for us. 
This article first appeared in the Pennsylvania State University's daily newspaper. The Daily Collegian on Oct. 
24. and is reprinted here courtesy of U­WIRE. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
the tradition of The Shirt must be placed aside for this game. Desperate times call for desperate measures. We must combat their brightness. I recommend wearing the most gold or yellow shirt that you have. By wearing as bright of a gold that you can, let us extend the Dome from the image of Mary looking over the stadium, right into the student section. Let them see what it means to be Notre Dame even when we're 3-4. Let us yell the cheers and combat their over­rated and inferior fight song (Rocky Top) with the fight song (yes, I meant to use the definite article). We can beat this team and as a student body if we don't win, we will at least go down in a valiant effort. We can show them the tradition that is Notre Dame football, something that they scoff at every moment. Remember ... We are ND, and we are not going to let any team intimidate us or become a more visible presence in our stadium. 
Tim O'Malley sophomore Old College Oct. 30, 200 I 

Celebrate Halloween despite 
•

terronsm 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
Since Sept. 11, Americans consider carefully the words they choose, the references they make and now the hol­idays they celebrate. Halloween has recently come under fire by some Editorial Staff Americans who want to forgo, or at the very least Minnesota limit, this year's Daily celebration. 
Kevin Horrigan, editorial columnist for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, articulated the reasons for this stance in his editorial '' A Holiday We Can Do Without." He writes: "Halloween is a festival of .the dead. Some festival. We've had lots of real dead people lately ... Substituting patriotic costumes -Uncle Sam, the Statue of Liberty, Dick Cheney (yes, Dick Cheney masks are hot) -doesn't help much. It's still phony and still morbid ... 'But kids love Halloween.' Tough. It's a great time to teach them about sacrifice." 
Some people perennially dislike Halloween, believing it's too closely related to the occult. But this year the issue is whether Halloween is still appropriate in light of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Well, it is. 
Most Americans, especially those in New York, know to take extra care when choosing their costumes this year, a mindset mirrored in store fronts where pumpkins and American flags have replaced last year's gory dis­plays. 
Also, the nation needs Halloween. Americans deserve time to relax, be with friends, laugh, dance, drink and be merry. They need to ogle their friends dressed as a heroic and hulky fireman or a lithe little Statute of 
Liberty. And the fact that people are 
buying patriotic costumes proves a 
point: this holiday is a morale booster 
only the Fourth of July could beat. 
Still, we're lucky it's Halloween. The struggling economy needs the project­ed $6.9 billion people will spend on candy, costumes and decorations this Halloween -second only to the winter holidays' sales. 
Another major concern in restricting Halloween is the impact it will have on American children. The World Trade Center succumbed to terrorists, adult Americans succumbed to terror, but the large majority of children live in their own separate world of video games and kick-the-can. Aside from the noticeable effects the incident had on their parents, these children live relatively unaffected -at least until someone takes away their Halloween. The terrorists then will have played an unforgivable trick on American chil­dren -they will have put terror into terms children can understand: the world is so screwed up, we can't have Halloween. Terrorists must not be allowed to redefine American child­hood. 
So this Halloween. dress up, go out and have some fun. Follow the advice of our president and go on with your lives. Lose yourself in the ephemeral fears and pleasures of Halloween, and enjoy this respite from real monsters. 
This article first appeared in the University ofMinnesota's daily news­paper, the Minnesota Daily on Oct. 25. and is reprinted here courtesy ofU­WIRE. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

·-·--·· 
O
THE

BSERVER 
page 10 eo game~cdnesday,October3l,2001 


Scene reviews the latest installments ' ~ 
Twisted metal, 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 
Twisted Metal: Black (TMB) is the fifth installment of Sony Computer Entertainment America's road-rag­ing battle game. The first in the series to take advantage of the Playstation 2's superior graphics and processing abilities, TWB delivers an exhilarating blend of craziness, cars and carnage. 
Sony returned the design ofTMB to the creators of the first two install­ments of the series. Twisted Metal 3 and 4 were designed by a separate team and the results were less than satisfying. For diehard fans, Twisted Metal 2 (TM2) was widely regarded as the best of the four; however, TMB easily usurps TM2's place as king of the road. · 

TMB offers 10 different charac­ters to choose from and five hidden characters. Each character can command nine dif­ferent weapons as well as an array of power and secret attacks. 
Mastery of power and secret attacks is crucial to beat the AI, which is fairly tough even on normal difficul­ty. For example, if a player presses both cycle weapons left and right buttons simultaneously his or her vehicle will jump. Another powerful attack is the freeze bolt; press up, down Some vehicles have more thar and down again to Metal: Black. 

O
THE 

BSERVER 

Wednesday, October 31, 2001 page 11 

f Playstation 25 thriller/horror genre 
twisted minds 

freeze an enemy for a short period so you can pummel him or her with 
your conventional weapons. 
Up to four players can play in multi-player deathmatch with a multi-tap device. Multi-player mode is the best aspect of TMB. Bringing a hail storm of missiles down on an unsuspecting roommate or friend will provide TMB players with hours of enjoyment. TMB also offers a two player cooperative mode as well. 
The gameplay takes a little getting used to, even for Twisted Metal veter­ans. The controls are customizable. However, one of the control presets like the default setting or the "run 'n' gun" setting is more than adequate for the TMB beginner to the addict. But it is the graphics and interactive environments that make this game one of the strongest titles available on the Playstation 2. 
TMB pushes the envelope with its rendered 3D graphics. Even the dis­cerning eye won't catch any repeated textures or reused artifacts. Each level has its own decor that fits into · the overall dark theme of the game. 

The most fun part of this game (besides destroying your pals in multi-player mode) is the ability to completely trash the environment. Bullets leave holes in the walls and explosives can scorch almost any surface. And ifyou can't deface it, you 
can destroy it. TMB features the ability to crash your evil vehi­cle through most of the artifacts in a level. 


The interactive environments are best showcased in the Suburbs level in which you can wreak havoc in a massive piece of suburban sprawl at twilight. Players will also be impressed by TMB's excellent soundtrack and sound effects. The rumble of explo­sions and hellish crashes make tearing through the levels even more fun. Plug your Playstation 2 into a system with surround sound to get the full efTect. 
Overall, TMB is one of the best, if not the best, combat games available on the mar­ket for any video game system. 


page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 31, 2qo1 
WORLD SERIES 

Clemens dominates, Yanks win 
enough to win on this night. after key outs and was a DH Chuck Knoblauch, saved Miller had touched it, with
. Righthander 

No baseball team has ever one-man cheerleading the Yankees in the sixth. Spencer scoring and Derek overcomes rallied from an 0-3 deficit squad. He shouted encour­With two on and two outs, Jeter cheering from the strained ham­to win a postseason series.· agement to teammates and he ran in to make a diving dugout. 
Thanks to Clemens' win and ran over to congratulate catch on a liner by The umpires, however,
string, holds 

Rivera's save, the defending them on crucial plays. Williams. ruled it a foul ball and Diamondbacks to 1 three-time champions won't Clemens improved to 3-0 Still sprawled on the Yankees manager Joe Torre have to try to do it, either. lifetime in the World Series grass, Spencer checked his disputed the call. Miller was
run, 3 hits

\ The Yankees' victory set and evened his often-check­glove to make sure he had given an error, yet Arizona' \ up an intriguing choice for ered postseason record at made the catch, and a great escaped when Soriano
Associated Press 

( Arizona manager Bob 6-6 for 20 starts. • sense of relief crossed his ended a 13-pitch at-bat Brenly: Does he start con­Brian Anderson pitched face when he saw he had with a long flyout. verted reliever Miguel well enough for Arizona, the ball. Clemens raised his Bush began the night by
NEW YORK 

Batista in Game 4 but took the loss. arm in the air to cheer the throwing a strike -his
Roger Clemens and Wednesday night, or does Tied at 1, the Yankees play and waited at the first­pitch even featured a little

Mariano Rivera showed the 

he bring back Schilling on scored in the sixth. Bernie bas e li n e to c o n g.ratu I ate late movement, much like a
Arizona Diamondbacks they 

three days' rest? Orlando Williams opened with a Spencer. cut fastball.
know a little bit about 

Hernandez lea.doff single, Posada drew The Diamondbacks, who "Very nice throw, Mr.
pitching in 

is set to a one-out walk and Mike led the NL in fielding this President," Brenly told the
the World start for Morgan relieved. With two year, had not given up an former Texas Rangers

Series, 

New York outs, Brosius hit a soft sin­unearned run in the post­owner. "Good stuff, good
too. 

o n gle to left field for the go­season. stuff."
T h e 

Halloween ahead run. With two outs and none on Bush became the first
Rocket 

night. The Diamondbacks, start­in the fourth, Spencer lifted president to throw out the
won when 

The win, ing five play-a foul pop opening ball at a Seriesthe New 
before ers who had behind the since Dwight Eisenhower in
Y o r k 

President n e v e r "Very nice throw, Mr. p I a t e . 1956 at Ebbets Field in
Yankees 

Bush and appeared at Unfamiliar Brooklyn.
couldn't President. ..good stuff. 
a quieter­Y a n k e e with the Bush watched three
afford 

than-usual crowd of 55,820 Stadium, good stuff,, tricky innings from an upstairs
lose, shutting down the 

bundled up against the cold made three winds at box with commissioner BudDiamond-backs over seven 
at Yankee Stadium, also errors and Yankee Selig, Steinbrenner and
innings for a 2-1 win Bob Brenly 
ensured something new: threw three Stadium, New York Gov. GeorgeTuesday night that cut 
Diamondbacks manager
Baseball will have a Mr. wild pitches. catcher Pataki before leaving.
Arizona's lead to two 

November, with Game 5 T h e Damian
games-to-one. 

scheduled for Thursday. Yankees Miller
Pumped and psyched, Notes:
Clemens was a little late hoped to get a couldn't
Clemens allowed only three . Ronald Reagan was the
taking the mound, prompt­big hit early and Posada make the play -no error
hits and struck out nine. last president to attend a
ing some to wonder whether delivered it, leading off the was charged, though.
Mariano Rivera threw two Series game, in 1983 at
he was talking to a George second inning with a home Spencer walked and short­
perfect innings in relief. Baltimore.... New York City
-president or owner, as in run. stop Tony Womack mis­
and that was it for Game 3. Mayor Rudolph Giuliani
Steinbrenner. Posada ended the played Brosius' grouoder.
The Yankees, who hit only watched from his usual
From the very start, Yankees' scoreless streak at Alfonso Soriano followed
.102 in losing to Curt front-row seat near the
Clemens was in control. 18 innings, their longest with a high pop in front of
Schilling and Randy Yankees' dugout. Sen. John
When Craig Counsell drought in Series history. the plate and, after confu­
Johnson at Bank One McCain, R-Ariz., sat next to
reached on an error to start Arizona tied it in the sion in Arizona's infield,
Ballpark, are still struggling the mayor.
the game, Clemens picked fourth on Matt Williams' Miller called it.
at the plate. . The Yankees' scoreless
him off. bases-loaded sacrifice fly. But Miller again missed,
But an early home run by streak was the longest since
Once he got rolling, it was Shane Spencer, starting in and the ball landed in fair
Jorge Posada and a Oakland's 18-inning slump
clear Clemens was charged left field because he's a bet­territory before spinning
tiebreaking single by Scott in 1988 against Los 
up. He pumped his fists ter defensive player than foul. The Yankees thought
Brosius in the sixth were Angeles. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Bed 'n Breakfast near NO for grad.  Selling Varsity Club time share 1  SPRING BREAK 1-800-231-4-FUN  $300-$800 Scholarships  New standup Austin Powers cutout,  
1  FOR RENT  weekend. Wild Irish Rose Inn. 219­277-4303 www.irishroseinn.com  soph. wk. $9,500 272-1753  Largest selection of Spring Break Destinations, including Cruises! Rep Positions, Free Drinks and Free trips available.  Available per semester! Looking for a job which lets you work around your school schedule? We have several part-time and full- life sized, says five things $20 Kate 4-1188  
f  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM­PUS mmmrentals.com  WANTED  TICKETS  www.EpicuRRean.com WANTED: SPRING BREAKERS!  time day & evening positions paying $7-$11/hr.We offer the following: •scholarship money  I've ridden in cars with boys  
1  email: mmmrentals@aol.com  Student wanted! Alum owned 2 story, 5 bdr, 2 bth w/ newer carpet.  Student needs 2 tickets for Tennessee game. Call Matt at 634­ Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on Spring Break to Cancun, the  •Flexible Schedules *Paid vacations/holidays  and I know more than I ever need to know  
Appl, sec, roof & furnace, 3 lot yd, 1  1854.  Bahamas, Jamaica or Mazatlan  *Optional Saturdays  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  blk N. of Club 23. 321-217-8451.  FOR FREE!  To find out how, call 1­ *Health/Lite/401 (k)  cass, I still think you're a high  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Need 2 tickets for Tennessee.  Call  888-777-4642 or email: sales@sun­ •incentives/Raises  achiever.  
for footbalVparent wknds. 5 rooms  Houses available for 3-6 students.  Janel at 284-4436  coastvacations.com  ·•supervisory/Mgt. Positions  
 
l !  with private·baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus, Toll Road Exit #1 07. 1 ·800-418­9487 B&B  Good area. ADT, washer-dryer-air. Dave 340-0106. Black female seeking same for roommate Castle Point. $350 + Deposit.  Need 1 Tennessee student convert tic-call Kate 4-1188 BUY-SELL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 277-6619 or 273-3911  Spring Break with STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com  1 ·(888) 801-JOBS jobs@americallcorp.com Just minutes north of campus Fraternities•Sororities*Clubs•Stude nt Groups  vanilla ice cream, banana split and....chocolate sundae? I don't know. Does Harvard really seem to be like chocolate? I'm going to say strawberry. Or French  
'.  i ( I }  2-3 ROOMS HOME GAMES 2 Ml NO OF CAMPUS 247-1124 Lodging -Bed and Breakfast, 45  Responsible person who enjoys kids needed for after school. Monday through Friday 4-7 PM. Need own car. Call 272-6145.  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. 232-2378 P.M. 288-2726  ...ACT NOW! GUARANTEE; THE BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES! SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, ACAPUL- Earn $1 ,000-$2,000 this semester with the easy campusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising event. Does not involve credit card applications.  vanilla. That's it Harvard is trench vanilla. H to the Izzo.  
I I  minutes from Notre Dame. T&R INN Between the lakes.  Fun promotional jobs  ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M. • 232-2378 P.M. • 288-2726  CO, FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS. REPS NEEDED. TRAVEL FREE,  Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today! Contact campus- so, it's a date tonight? Oh wait, no it's not. Well, maybe it is.  
Pf · (616) 244-9084  
 EARN $$$. GROUP DISCOUNT  fundraiser.com at 888 923-3238, or  
!I ! l  wv,w.innbetweenthelakes.corn Nice homes next school year north of ND. Great area. 277-3097  $10/hr to give away cool new prod­ucts promogirl.com  ND tickets for sale. Lowest prices 232-0964. WANTED· ND TICKETS 289-9280  FOR 6+. 800-838­8203/www.leisuretours.com ADOPTION IS LOVE  visit v.ww.campusfundraiser.com HOPING TO ADOPT  i didn't write those last few classifieds central park  
ROOMS AVAILABLE AT THE SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT  .  FOR SALE  Buying some/ Selling a few extra N.O. Football Tickets.  Imagine your precious baby sale and happy in a loving family, · adored by 2 ND grad parents {a full- We are a tun-loving, well educated and financially secure married cou­ conan o brien is the coolest he went to Harvard  
NOVEMBER 15-18, NOTRE DAME  time mom and lawyer dad) and lov­ pie in Northern California.  We are  betcha didn't know that  
VS. NAVY WEEKEND.  Northsore Condo, 1428 Marigold  219-289-8048.  ing playmates in a beautiful home.  homestudy approved and excited to  yeah  
way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath,  We promise to give your child the  share our love with a bay!  You can  
ROOMS BLOCKED FOR AN ND  life you dream of for them. Medical,  learn more about us at www.parent­ ok, here we go  
CONFERENCE, EXTRAS AVAIL­ABLE. FOR MORE INFORMATION  LR, DR & kitchen with appliances.  PERSONAL  legal, counseling, court-approved living expenses pd. Confidential.  profiles.com/profiles/db2288. html or call Adoption Connection toll-tree at  40k, then 9x3 minutes phew  
~ -­ \SE CALL BARB HERB AT  1 car garage. $69,000.  Please call our attorney at (708)  1-800-972-9225 and ask about  
312·:" ·-4244 (X4192)  Call Doris at 254-1772  need to think serendipitously  922-4795  Chris and Mary.  don't make tun of me  

Wednesday, October 31, 2001 
The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame falters in Region IV semis 

lished her position as the team's No. 1 By COLIN BOVIAN singles starter. Against the Trojans, she Sports Writer 
disposed of USC's Jewel Peterson, the No. 15 player in the country, 6-1, 6-3. 
A busy fall break for the Notre Dame The win was her second straight women's tennis team came to an against a top 15 opponent. abrupt halt when its two top doubles .. I was really on top of my game teams were ousted from competition in heading into the match against USC," the semifinal round of the Omni Hotels said Varnum. "It was just an issue of Regiop. IV Championships. having confidence in myself." 
Notre Dame's top seeded team of Entering the Omni Regionals as the Becky Varnum and Lindsey Green was top-seeded singles player, however, upset by Illinois State's team of Liina Varnum faltered slightly, losing to Suurvarik and Alesia Mikalayeva, in a Northwestern's Andrea Yung 7-5, 6-3 closely contested 8-7 match. in the first round. Meanwhile, Katie Cuhna and Sarah "I think I just tried too hard to live up Jane Connolley fell to Indiana's fourth to my seeding," said Varnum. seeded tandem of Kari Shlukebir and Junior Katie Cuhna won three quali­Linda Tran by a score of 8-4. fying matches just to reach the main 
The Omni Regionals consisted of a 64 draw and then proceeded to advance to player draw for both singles and dou­the round of 16 before losing to bles, featuring the top collegiate talent Northwestern's Lia Jackson. Including in the Midwest. The tournament culmi­doubles play, Cuhna finished the· tour­nated a week of tough competition for nament with a record of 9-2. the Irish, which began with a loss to Sophomore Alicia Salas also sur­USC on Oct. 19 and continued through­prised many, advancing to the round of out the week in Omni Tournament play. 16 as well with tough victories over 
When all was said and done. head Indiana's Amanda Field and Western coach Jay Louderback felt his team Michigan's Frederika Girsang. came away with some positive experi­"I though Katie and Alicia played very ences from the week's action. Indeed, well for us," said Louderback. despite a disappointing 5-2 loss to the The Irish get a week off from colle­Trojans, he thought that the teams giate competition and a little bit of time competed on an equal level. to recharge their batteries before host­
"We lost some tough three setters," ing the Eck Classic, which will be held Louderback said, referring to close in the Eck Tennis Pavilion from Nov. 9­losses by Caylan Leslie and Cuhna. 11. "And losing the doubles point really "In the meantime, we're just going to hurt us. If we could have taken dou­work on everyone's weaknesses and bles, who knows what could have hap­keep trying to improve," said Varnum. pened?" 
Nonetheless, the Irish are taking comfort in the play of Varnum, who has 
Contact Colin Boylan at 
lifted her game to another level this 
boylan.2@nd.edu. 
season and has become firmly estab­
-------------------------, 
H A_Et P_E_N J N G ~
UNION I I I Cl+] .. Lafortune HalloWe~,;op,;nHo~se -" "1 i :OOam-2:00pm Q ct 3.1-nQV 6 I 
ND Loves NY 4:00-5: l Spm Foster Room, LafunI 11The Shining0 7:30-9:30pm 155 DeBartolo $3 I Coffee at the CO-Mo 8:00-9:00pmI ........ Flipside Halloween.Dance..............................J0:00pm-1 :30am .............LoFun.Bollroommmmm.............................. I THURS "The Economic Causes and Consequences of the Sept. l l Attacks"I 5:00pm Hesburgh Center Aud. I ND Cinema "Molena11 7:00pm Hesburgh Library Aud. I Men's Basketball Exhibition Game 7 :30pm I Glee Club Fall Concert 8:00pm Washington Holl I AcoustiCafe. 9:00pm -midnight. LaFortune Huddle. free. I "America's Sweethearts" and "The Exorcist". 10:00pm. 101 & 155 DeBartolo. $2/$3. 
I I
jj;ij Last Day to Drop a Class Marching Band step-off 4:30pm Main Building
I I 
Glee Club rehearsal (open to public) 4:45pm Crowley Hall 
./

11Trailblazers11 Discussion with ND Alumni NAACP I 5:30-8:30pm Notre Dame Room LcFun I Football Pep Rally 6:30pm JACC 
I

I "America's Sweethearts• and 'The Exorcisf. 10:00pm. 10 l & 155 DeBartolo. $2/$3.I Glee Club Foll Concert 8:00pm Washington Hall $3 I Crafting Corner Knitting/Crocheting 9:00-11 :00pm Notre Dame Room Lafun I SUB Loft Show Blues Artist Keith Scott 10:00-11 :30pm LaFun Ballroom free I Bingo l 1 :00pm-1:30am Notre Dame Room LaFun 
I Ni ND Football vs. Tennessee l :30pm I Undertones Concert one hour after the game Bookstore
I Men's Soccer vs. Syracuse 7:30pm I 
. . 

11America1s Sweethearts" and 11The Exorcist".I l 0:00pm. l 01 & 155 DeBartolo. $2/$3. I 

Folk Choir Concert for Missions 8:00pm Basilica I BCAC Talent Show 8:00pm Washington Holl $5 I 
amr......~~::1k~soult Awareness·week ·Begins ....10:0041. l.:;30pm ............,..... LoFun.Huddle..........................mmmHm•·· 
..... 
I l~l•llf·····Labor Film. Series •salt.of the· Earth11 ·····4:00pm.......m Hesburgh Center C-100 ----·~--I 
...........................~.. 
I ndsg Last Lecture Series Rev. Hugh Page 7:00pm P-E Lounge Latin American Film Symposium "Que born te ver viva" (from Brazil) 7 :00pm Hesburgh Center Aud. 
k:

sponsored by Women's Basketball Exhibition 7:00pm 
I 1191§]
I Student Union lnt'I Film series 1 Nostlaghia11 (from Russia) 7:00&9:00pm Montgomery Theatre LaFun
Executive Cabinet 

ndsg Town Hall Meeting 8:00pm Notre Dame Room Lafortune
I 


page 14 Wednesday, October 31, 200I
The Observer . SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 

Holiday, Fisher, Jones will play 
. Neither running back is 100 percent, says Davie 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
Irish head coach Bob Davie expects to have all his horses ready to play in the backfield for Saturday's game against the Volun­teers. 
Carlyle Holiday, who left the Boston College game with 

i a bruised knee, TonyIl Fisher, 
i' w h o missed the Boston College game with a hamstring injury and Julius Jones who has missed practice time with an Achilles tendon injury are all going to play Saturday. 
"I think we are a healthier team,"· Davie said at his Tuesday's press confer­

of the loss to Boston College. He bruised his knee but Davie said there was no structural damage and Holiday should return to action Saturday. 
"I think I am going to play 

I 
) regardless [of how the knee feels]," Holiday said. "I feel fine. I can run. I can move 
around fine. I am pretty sure I am going to be playing Saturday."

!­
I,. Fisher practiced on I Monday and Tuesday while i' Jones practiced for the first '( time Tuesday.
I 
( "Neither one of those guys 
f 
) is 100 percent," Davie said. "But I think they saw how important practice time is." 
f [ 
Fisher and Jones have been battling injuries throughout the season. They each prac­ticed sparingly during condi­tioning camp and have been less than 100 percent throughout the entire sea­son. 
"It have been a frustrating deal because they have worked extremely hard," Davie said about his tail­backs taking so few snaps in practice. 
Notes: 

. T 0 counter a Tennessee defensive front that features a pair of defensive tackles that each w e i g h more than 290 pounds, Davie has shifted tackle Jordan Black to guard this week. "I think Jordan Black might give us the best opportunity [to win]." Davie said. With Black at guard, junior Brennan Curtin will start at tackle. Curtin started at 
tackle 


against

ence. "We have "We have got some 
Michigan

got some injuries but by and large 
State and
injuries but by 

we are a pretty Texas A&M
and large we 
when tack­

are a pretty healthy team. ,, 
le Kurt
healthy team." 
Vollers
Holiday was 

Bob Davie shifted to
injured in the 

head coach guard for
fourth quarter 
two games. 

Black will take Sean Milligan's guard spot. Milligan will miss the game with an ankle injury he suffered against Boston College. 
. Two starting defensive players will also miss Saturday's game. Free safety Donald Dykes injured his ankle against Boston College. Nose tackle Andy Wisne suf­fered a concussion during warm-ups of the Boston College game and has not been cleared to play this week. 
Contact Mike Connolly at con­nolly.28@nd.edu. 
NBA 

Jordan shoots 7-for-21 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Michael Jordan wasn't exactly No. 23 of old and he missed his biggest shot of the night in his return to the NBA. 
Looking more like a promis­ing playmaker than one of the game's greats, Jordan spent the majority of his minutes at point guard in his regular­season debut for the Washington Wizards after a 3 1/2-year retirement. 
He scored 19 points and passed the ball as much as he shot it, getting six assists but making a few key mistakes that the old Jordan might not have made in a 93-91 loss Tuesday to the New York Knicks. 
Jordan had a chance to tie the game with a 3-pointer from in front of the Knicks' bench with 18 seconds left, 
but missed the shot -one of 14 misses in 21 attempts. He also had two turnovers late in the fourth, and an airball and a missed layup in the first .quarter that diminished a final stat line that included five rebounds and four steals 
in 37 minutes. · 
The Knicks took an 87-86 
lead into the final two min­
utes, and after Latrell 
Sprewell hit a turnaround. 
Jordan answered with a 21­
footer -his first field goal of 
the quarter -to cut New 
York's lead to 89-88. 
The 38-year-old Jordan 
missed his next shot, also a 
jumper, and then failed to 
outjump Kurt Thomas. allow­
ing him to grab an offensive 
rebound. That led to a pair of 
foul shots by Othella 
Harrington with 34 seconds 
left for a three-point lead. 
Jordan threw an ill-advised 
pass that was stolen on 
Washington's next posses­
sion, but Christian Laettner stole the ball back. After Jordan missed the 3-point attempt, Thomas was fouled on the rebound and made both shots for a 93-88 lead that all but ended it. 
Sprewell led New York with 28 points, including 13 in the fourth quarter, and Allan Houston had 2 2 to reach 10,000 points for his career. 
Chris \Vhitney scored 18 points to lead the rest of the Wizards, who would have made Jordan's return a much bigger success if they had converted a few of his precise passes into field goals. 
As bad as his teammates looked for three quarters, they managed to open the fourth quarter with an 8-0 run and take a 71-69 lead before Jordan checked in with 8:57 left. Jordan hit his next shot and got an assist on his next pass, helping the Wizards maintain a slim lead. 



-------------------------------------------,-­
Wednesday, October 31, 200 l The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
ND WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Irish still unbeaten in Big East 
. Despite struggles, Notre Dame wins 2 of 3 matches 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
The Irish volleyball team struggled with passing, serving and defense at various times during three fall break matches. 
But the nation's 20th-ranked team still was able to come up with the victory in two of the three as they defeated Providence on Sunday to. rebound from a loss at unranked St. Louis last Wednesday. The Irish also topped Kentucky in five games on Oct. 23. 
Sunday's win increased Notre Dame's record in the Big East to 8-0 as they swept the Friars (6­18, 0-10 in the Big East) 30-25, 30-22, 30-22. 
"I think some things we did really, really well," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said of the match. "Our defensive special­ists, all three of them passed great. I don't think we could have asked them to pass any better. And that's something that we struggled with against Kentucky and St. Louis." 
Senior middle blocker Malinda Goralski led the Irish with 10 kills and eight blocks and Notre Dame held Providence to .048 hitting in the sweep. But the Friars remained in striking dis­tance throughout the match as Notre Dame failed in converting offensive opportunities. 
"The errors that we made were hitting errors that were again unforced errors," Brown said. "We blocked really well, we passed pretty well. Our defense was pretty good." 
The same could not be said about Wednesday's 30-16, 27­30, 21-30, 27-30 loss at St. Louis. St. Louis middle blocker Colleen Hunter converted 26 kills and Ember Knobeloch added 14 as the Billiken came back to sweep the final three games. 
"We knew going in that their two middle hitters were their strength and that's what we needed to stop," Brown said. "For the first time this year, we were not able to execute to being able to stop our opponent." 
Kristy Kreher had 13 kills for the Irish while Goralski added 
10. But after dominating the first game, Notre Dame made mis­
takes  at  the  worst  times  
throughout  the  final  three  
games.  

"We certainly [executed] in game one and we didn't do that in games two, three and four," Brown said. "It's a combination of their middles playing very well against us and we didn't play well as a team." 
Against Kentucky, the Notre Dame came as close as possible to defeat before a Kristen Kinder block gave the Irish their 17th point to seal a deciding game five and give Notre Dame a 28­30, 30-25, 26-30, 30-27, 17-15 victory. 

Goralski tied a career-high with 11 blocks and scored 18 kills while Kreher added 15 kills on a .484 hitting percentage. But the Irish were within points of defeat as a result of more errors. 
··1 just feel like we didn't play very well," Brown said. "With the rally scoring, it brings more to light if you're making a lot of errors that you can hurt your­self. I don't want to take away from what Kentucky did, but they didn't have to earn a lot of their points." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter. l@nd.edu. 

HOCKEY 
Irish manage 2 ties, 2 losses over fall break 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 
A loss and a tie the past two weekends have proven that this year's 
version of the Notre Dame hockey team isn't much different from last 
year's. 
The Irish lost to and tied Ohio State last weekend in Columbus while 
this past weekend they squandered a third-period lead in a loss to 
Boston College before scoring late in the game to tie Northeastern. 
Last year's team started off going 2-5-1 on their way to an 11th 
place finish in the CCHA. This year head coach Dave Poulin made it 
clear that a fast start was key to improving their standing in the CCHA. 
So far the Irish ha~en't done that. 
"It has been disappointing," said junior Connor Dunlop. "We have 
played well enough to win, but we just haven't capi~ed." . 
Last weekend the Irish traveled to Colwnbus, Ohio to open up their 
CCHA schedule against the Ohio State Buckeyes. 
Notre Dame tied the Buckeyes 4-4 on Saturday, with junior winger 
Mike Chin scoring the tying goal late in the third. The goal was Olin's 
first of the year. Also scoring for the Irish were Evan Nielsen, Aaron 
Gill and Brad Wanchulak. 
The next day the Irish seemed poised for their first win of the sea­
son. Aaron Gill and Dunlop both scored in the first period to put Notre 
Dame up 2-0 against the Buckeyes. That lead wouldn't last. though. 
Ohio State scored once in the first. and twice in the third to beat the 
Irish 3-2. 
"Going into Columbus we knew that it was going to be a tough series," said Gill "We felt good getting the tie the first nig~t. ~?t obvi­ously we didn't play well enough to get a win _the second rught. 
In each game against Ohio State freshman goalie Morgan Cey got the start for Notre Dame. Cey also found himself between the pipes for a Friday night match up against defending national champion Boston Coll~ge. . . 
The night was special for the Eagles, as they unveiled their National Championship banner. It was the Irish who struck first though, when Gill stuffed home a rebounding puck in the first period. 
"I just went to the net like the coaches teach you," said Gill. ''The puck was there, and I put it away." 
Notre Dame would hold onto its 1-0 lead into the third period thanks to the impressive goaltending of Cey. Despite facing 24 shots in the first two periods, Cey kept the Irish in front. 
Boston College was finally able to break through in the third period. The first goal by Boston College got the home crowd into the game. Two more goals and an empty netter at the end of the game con­tributed to the 4-1 Notre Dame demise. 
Finally, on Saturday evening Notre J?ame faced off in Bo~~ against Northeastern University. The only difference was that Jumor Tony Zasowski got his first start of the season for the Irish. North~ast:ern took a 3-2 lead into the third, but Notre Dame battled back. With Just 
3:53 left in the third, Brad Wanchulak got the tying goal. The teams were then able to do nothing in overtime, and the Irish walked away with another tie. 
So after two games at home, and four on the road, Notre Dame now stands at 0-4-2. This weekend they take on CCHA foe Northern Michigan away before returning to the Joyce Center on Nov. 9 and 10. 
· "This coming weekend is a big 
Vero Italiano 
Catalino'• Trattoria Downtown South Bend 

for us," said Dunlop. "Northern Michigan is first in the CCHA, they just swept Michigan, and we are 
looking to go up there and get some points." 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu. 
The MSW at Loyola: 
• 
Nationally known 

• 
Accredited since 1914 

• 
Clinical specializations: adults, children, couples, elderly, families, health, an<l school :.ocial work 

• 
Four dual degree programs: Ms,v and Child Development (1v\S); la,v (,JD); Divinity (,v\Div); or Child and Family 


Law (M,J) 
Also available at Loyola: BS"\V and PhD
' ~ 
degree programs 
Chioigo's )<'Su.ii l.'nivcroi<)' 
LOYOLA M.S.W. Admissions: Jude Gonzales ~-:i. UNIVERSITY
· ' §CHICAGO at 312.915.7289
[ [j ,CJ (,r;tdu,ttc S,hool 
E-mail:

~-~ of Sn,ial Work 
jgonza@luc.edu 




I, 
1 
,, 
) 
\ 

Wednesday, October 31, 2001 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
. 

Irish sw-eep fall break dual meets 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sports Writer 
Fast swims and solid diving performances are coming early for the men's swimming and diving team, who powered its way to two dual meet wins during fall break. 
The Irish notched victories against George Washington University 150-85 on Oct. 26 and American University 174-142 Oct. 27. The wins catapulted the squad ·to a 3-0 record on the season. · 
"The men, to their credit, recognized this was going to be a challenge on Saturday, and met the challenge," said Irish head coach Tim Welsh. 
A combination of early-season breakout swims from both rookie and veteran swim ­mers has recorded some of the fastest times in pre-championship competition in years, according to Welsh. 
Because those swims have come in both sprint and distance events, the Irish have been able to demonstrate more depth than past seasons, diversifying their ability to score points. 
"We have enough power to win several events, and we have enough balance in events that we're able to play good defense," Welsh said. "Even when American won [an event]. we were second through fourth." 
The Irish broke out to an early lead against American, after the divers captured the top three positions on the one-meter board, and swept first, second and fourth places on the three-meter board. 
Diving has been the standout event for the Irish all season long, with the Irish divers currently undefeated in dual meet competi­tion. Behind junior standout Andy Maggio, the Irish divers only missed one possible point in both competitions last week. The squad captured the top three posts in both the one-meter and three-meter events against George Washington, and won the top three places at American on the one-meter board as well. 
"Our diving is probably our strongest event right now," Welsh said. "They're just doing a fabulous job." 
For the swimmers, senior co-captain Jonathan Pierce has been one of the standout contributors, after capturing a victory in the 1,000-yard freestyle in 9 minutes, 33.73 sec­onds, a full nine seconds ahead of the closest American competitor. Pierce also won the 500-yard freestyle against George Washington. 
Sophomore J.R. Teddy also put up a pair of wins during break, winning the 500-yard freestyle against George Washington and the 200-yard butterfly against American. ' 
Senior David Horak claimed a pair of victo­ries in the 100 and 200-yard backstroke events during the break, and freshman David Mosian captured the 200-yard breastroke against American. 
Freshman sprinters have also made their marks early. Freshman Frank Krakowski helped the 200-yard medley relay team to a win against American, and also swept the 50­yard freestyle. Krakowski helped the Irish to a total of 29 points in the American victory. 
"The biggest change in a positive direction is that our sprints went very well," Welsh said, crediting much of that ability to the freshman class. 
The Irish next face off against Tennessee Friday at Rolfs Aquatic Center at 7 p.m., their first dual meet against a ranked opponent this season. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gill0843@saint­marys.edu. 

Over the last month, we have all felt the need to assist those affected by the tragic events of September 11. As a nation, we have worked together to reach out and help others. It has been such a natural response since we all suddenly realize how blessed we are and the power we each hold individually to make a difference in another's life. In this spirit, I urge students to sign up for the Urban Plunge -The Church and Social Action Seminar offered through the CSC. This 48 hour experience over Christmas b_reak enables students to witness the conditions of poverty in their chosen city and interact with people who are dedicated to improving these conditions. It is an amazing and extremely rewarding experience. 
I did my Urban Plunge in the Bronx with twelve other Notre Dame students. We stayed in St. Anthony's Residence, located in the South Bronx, for two nights and during the day went out to different sites throughout the Bronx and Manhattan. The Franciscans who run the residence exemplified living a life of faith and accepting the responsibility to help those in need. Fr. Bob, a Notre Dame alumnus, humorously put it that, if I didn't have faith, I would avoid this place like the plague. Yet, all the people we met were energetic and optimistic about improving their community. In addition to gaining exposure to the neighborhood and projects in the South Bronx, we had the opportunity to work in a soup kitchen in the Fordham University area and also headed down to an Aids Ministry House run by the Sisters of Charity in the Village. The Sisters were inspirational in their endless energy in assisting the ten men who lived in this home and were struggling with AIDS. Throughout the Plunge, all of us students appreciated the chance to gain exposure to the inner city and interact with many inspiring people. 
The Urban Plunge is a unique opportunity that Notre Dame offers to students. Everyone I met over the 48 hour period made the concept of social responsibility a reality. Through participating in the seminar, I learned how to integrate service into everyday life and truly appreciate everything that I have. I am thankful for the experience and hope that many of you will take advantage of this opportunity and sign up for the Urban Plunge. 
-Maureen Fitzpatrick 

'This two-day Seniinar ena6fes you to witness anddeve(o_p a disci_pfined sensi6ifity to the conditions ofyovertyfoundin our cities. 'This is not a direct service ~ortunity, afrhou8h certain sites miafit 1fer that kind of ex_perience during the trp. 'lnstead, this seniinar 
CENTER FOR 

SOCIAL intends to increase your awareness ofyersons ex_periencin8 poverty as weffas those who work through different occipations to imyrove CONCERNS 
conditions in their cities. 'Ur6an p(un8e is an exyerientia[ fearninB course for one _credit in 'Theology. 
r
' '
J..L___ 

Wednesday, October 31, 200 I page 17 
The Observer . SPORTS 
So aress up, bring your friends, and party like it's going out of style. 

MEN'S GOLF 
Irish end in disappointment 
. Irish linksmen manage 15th at Invitational 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
Despite impressive perfor­mances by two Irish golfers. the Notre Dame men's golf team ended its fall season in disappoiJ].t­ment. 
"There were .two bright spots, and then three difficult spots," said head coach J o h n Jasinski. 
Senior Steve Ratay tied for eighth place, and junior Brandon Lunke was 21st in a field of 120 at the St. John's Tillinghast Invitational last Monday and Tuesday. Overall, the Irish finished 15th out of 24 teams at the par 70, 6,835­yard Quaker Ridge Golf Club in New York. Notre Dame was 37 strokes behind tournament champion Illinois. 
"Our hopes were to get somewhere in the top five," Jasinski said. "We didn't per­form well as a group. [Ratay and Lunke] definitely did their part, but from there on we really seemed to struggle." 
"We didn't get any support from the bottom of the lineup," said Ratay, who shot rounds of 71 and 74 during the 36-hole tournament. "I know we have a lot of guys who can shoot better than 80." Wiseman and Steve Colnitis 


Lunke had a 36-hole total of are all freshmen, while sopho­149, while the rest of the line­more Gavin Ferlic and Whitten up all shot above 160. Junior have not played in many tour­Chris Whitten, freshman Ryan naments. Ricci is a walk-on Marshall and senior Kevin senior. Ricci finished with totals of "Right now, at the bottom of 160, 161, and 164, respective­our lineup, our players have ly. According to Jasinski, these not figured out how to handle scores were about 10 shots too [off-days)," Jasinski said. high, even for an off day. ·'There's a lot of over-reaction. 
Jasinski stressed that while They're skilled enough, talent­average performances are ed enough to put us into a inevitable, the scores cannot position where we can be be this high for the Irish to be happy with ourselves. It's a successful in the upcoming matter of learning, more expe­
spring season.  rience,  
"When  we  and  more  
have performed poorly, it's poorer than it needs to be.  "We didn't perform well as a group. [Ratay and Lunke] definitely  training." T h e golfers know that  
We're going to have off days,  did their part..,  from until  now the  
there's no doubt about it.  John Jasinski  spring season  
But  how  bad  head coach  starts  in  

are we going to 

be when we're bad?" Jasinski said. 
Jasinski believes that the golfers need to recognize which days are their bad days, and then try to control the ele­ments that they can. 
"If you're [set up to have a bad day] and you're trying to push the envelope to get every­thing out of [your play] that you normally get out of it when you're playing well, that's a recipe for some poor play." Jasinski said. "Often times that's confusing to really find out where your game is, but that's what we have to get bet­ter at." 
Notre Dame's sub-par per­formance may be attributed tu its inexperience. Marshall, K.C. 
February, they have much to work on. 
"We're just not quite there yet . . . We just need a little more consistency," Ratay said. "We need to make our bad days no quite so bad." 
The Irish will continue to practice until mid-'November. 
"Our practices will be geared towards putting our players in difficult situations and hopeful­ly they're going to be able to start responding," said Ratay. "We've had some -bumps and bruises. You want to take those bumps and bruises and turn them into something good." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@ntiedu. 
CLUB SPORTS 

Men's water polo finshes·4th with win over Miami 
Special to The Observer 

The men's water polo club completed their fall season with a fourth place finish in the 12 team Midwest Championships. Opening round victori~s over Akron, 13-7, and Miami B, 12-5, advanced the Irish to the semifinals where they lost to host Miami, 11-7. The Irish lost the consolation match to Grand Valley State, 12-5, to close the season with an 8-4 record. John Penilla led the Irish attack with 12 goals, while Jay Deimel anchored the defense and ripped home six goals. Adam Zavadil, Rory Cleary, Danny Wiederkehr and Steve Schrantz completed the scor­ing and Devlin McCormick played his usual solid game in goal with 45 saves. 
Men's rowing 

Notre Dame's men's row­ing club competed in two annual classics over fall break. First, the Irish rowed in the Head of the Charles in Boston, one of the most pres­tigioius events in the coun­try. Competing against the nation's elite, the Irish fin­ished 54th among 68 boats in the club eight, with a time of 16:03. Chris Reilly, Ross Bartel, Francis Stefanski, Dennis Sullivan, Marik and Margaret Durant com­pleted the line-:-up. The club four -Nie Iverson, Phil Strapp, John Martell, Terrence Fitzgibon, and Tara Driscoll -completed the course in 17 :35 to place 56th among 68 boats. Both boats received one minute penal­ties that knocked the eight out ot the top twenty and the four out of the top thirty. 
Next, the Irish participated in Philadelphia's Head of the Schukyll, where the eights finished 18th in a field of 39, and the Irish finished 17th among 26 boats in the Championship Eight event. The Irish will close their fall 
season Nov. Marietta ChaMarietta, Ohio.  10 llenge  at  the in  
Equestrian Club  

Callie Willis' first place in the novice flats and Meganne Hoffman's two seconds in open fences and open flats highlighted a strong et{ues­trian club showing at IUPUI. Erin Hughes also captured a second in advanced walk / trot / canter, and Molly Kopacz placed second in intermediate fences and third in intermediate flats. Jennifer Pojunas, Kristen Jones, Kelly Gentine, and Mary Barter all scored points as well for the Irish. The club will next travel to St. Mary's of the Woods for back 

1{@ wO@ WV~ 

@~ ~W@ j:\1@~oo0°~~000@r? ~1@/b 
Our HUGE Annual 
l]{]!/JfLIL@WJ!E!EliYJ 
Party!! 
Costume Contest, Door Prizes, and Tons of 
Free Giveaways 
ALL NIGHT LONG. 
Partv starts at 9 and goes unti( 1.. 
Visit www.nd edu/---asc for more info. Must be 21 with valid ID to enter. 
Frenstring, Ryan Carlson, to back shows on Nov. 10 Brandon Mackay, Chris Szefc and 11. 

Fresco 
Recycle 
The Observer. 
Catalino's TrattQria 
Downtr,wn South Bend 

Yu.sf Orijinal.7¾zza in :JoamI Since 1951 
Specializins in Italian Entrees 
Tues. -Thurs.: 5:00 PM• 11:00 PM Fri.. SaL: 5:00 PM· 1:00 AM 537 North St. Louis • South Bend, IN 219-233~464 ­THANKS TO NOTRE DAME FOR 50 GREAT YEARS 


page 18 Wednesday, October 31, 200 I 
The Observer . SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Connecticut, Notre Dame attend Big East media day 
Muffet McGraw and senior Ericka Haney ''I'm still trying to get her to do a lot contribute is South Bend native Jackie By NOAH AMSTADTER while the Huskies brought Big East more than she's capable of doing," Batteast, who was voted the Big East Spores Editor Preseason Player of the Year Sue Bird, Auriemma said. "The other day in prac­Preseason Rookie of the Year. 
senior Swin Cash and head coach Geno tice, she comes down four straight pos­The 6-foot-1 Batteast, who averaged 26 NEWARK, N.J. Auriemma. sessions, boom, boom, boom, boom. The points and 16.4 rebounds per game last 
A few faces were missing, but the main While McGraw and Auriemriia attracted fifth time she's like, 'I've shot enough.' So year for \Vashington High School on her characters in the drama's conflict were similar throngs of reporters, they bring she passes up a wide open shot to throw way to Parade All-America honors, looks the same last Thursday at the Big East much different teams to the court. the ball to somebody who's not open. to contribute at the No. 3 or 4 position in Women's Basketball Media Day at the Auriemma's Huskies were chosen by con­That's the kind of stuff that really pisses the front court. Newark Sheraton. 
ference coaches to take this season's reg­me off. I wish I coached men's basketball. 'Tm very, very excited about her as a 
While each team in ular season title, garnering 11 of 14 first A guy wouldn't pass that ball in a million teammate," Haney said. "She's going to the league brought place votes. Connecticut returns nearly years," help us out a lot this year. I could even its head coach and at every key player from the team that -lost . Bird is joined on the Big East first team see her being our leading scorer in some least one player, only three games last season. by Georgetown sophomore forward of the games." most of the media "They're ranked No. 1 in a lot of polls," Rebekkah Brunson. Cash, Boston College While some high school players have attention focused on McGraw said. "They've got four starters senior forward Becky Gottstein, Villanova trouble adjusting to the transition to col­Notre Dame and back from a team that went to the Final junior Trish Juhline and Notre Dame lege, Haney says that Batteast is having Connecticut, Four. It's basically the same team. I think junior Alicia Ratay. no such difficulty. providers of three McGraw that they're certainly poised to compete While Auriemma was spending time "She's doing very well," Haney said. epic battles last sea-again in the NCAA tournament." contemplating genders, McGraw sat con­"She's probably been the best out of all of son, including a Bird, the point guard who sunk a last­sidering an entirely new lineup. [the Notre Dame freshmen] in my opin­Husky win in the Big East Tournament second lay-up to beat the Irish in the Big Conference coaches voted Notre Dame to ion." title game and an Irish victory in the East Tournament Championship game, finish second in the conference, but how Haney herself earned an honor on the NCAA semifinal. was the only unanimous choice on the All­they will get there is yet to be determined. day, being elected as a forward on the 
Representatives from the conference's Big East preseason first team. Bird is so With All-Americans Ruth Riley and Preseason All-Big East Second Team. two Final Four teams were separated by good, her coach explains, that the only Niele Ivey graduated, spots on the floor only two tables. The defending NCAA person preventing her from taking over a for the Irish are wide open. One player Contact Noah Amstadter at 
champion Irish brought head coach game is often herself. 
I ' 
\ 
NFL 

League names Hall of Fame candidates 

member of the group that will 
Associated Press 

be announced in mid-January 
is the late coach George Allen, 
nominated by a seniors com­
CANTON, Ohio 
mittee.
Quarterbacks Jim Kelly, 

The class of 2002 will be
Bernie Kosar and Jim 

determined at the selection
McMahon and NFL commis­

committee's annual meeting on
sioner Paul Tagliabue are 

Feb. 2, the day before the Super 
Bowl in New Orleans.
coaches, and contributors nom­
inated for the Pro Football Hall 
of Fame's 2002 class. 
The Hall's selection commit­

I 
iI 
tee will pick 14 modern-era 

Molti Bene
; 
. 
.. 
finalists from the list. The 15th 

Catalino', Trattoria Downtown South Bend 

who has stepped up and is expected to amstadter.l@nd.edu. 
All the talk of a national but its where Notre Dame is championship and a return to right now.
Football 
glory for the Irish have melted So welcome to Spoilerville, continued from page 20 away into: "We can mess Irish fans. To your left you will 
things up for them." see houses where Marshall Dec. 1 and a team without a Ugh. and Washington State live. If head coach won't go to a But just because they have you cross the street you will bowl. accepted that role, doesn't meet some Iowa Hawkeye 
When Lou Holtz resigned in mean that are happy with it. fans. Down the block is the 1996, the Irish did not accept "If your goal is the national David Gordon Memorial Park. a bowl bid even though they championship and you have Welcome to Spoilerville. It's were eligible. lost four games already, it's a nice place to visit but Irish 
So the Irish are the spoiler going to be a let down," Irish fans sure as hell don't want to team and they've pretty much center Jeff Faine said. "When live here. accepted their role. I came here I expected a Mike Connolly can be con­
"We definitely play the spoil­national championship every tacted at connolly.28@nd.edu. er role," senior wide receiver year, That's got to be your The views expressed in this Javin Hunter said. "We can mindset. Anything less and column are those ofthe author mess things up for them and you are in the wrong place." and not necessarily those of help ourselves out." It may be the wrong place, The Observer. 
Mondays & Wednesdays-­Like No l>lace Else 

Enjoy a double orde.r of fajifas (enoush for two) for just $11*! 

-:~Jt= ....-· 
...~= 
t 


··•:•..~.:-;..•;~•;•:•:-:~·.···. 
Baby Back 'N Brew Wednesdays 
"I want my Baby Back . .'1 Enjoy a full rack of ChiifsSfamous double basted. flame erilied Baby Back Ribs wi±h cinnamon apples and homesfyle fries for just $9.99** ! 




Mishawaka 4810 G.rape Road 219-271-1330 
Mv~..r :.,,, ai J,,..,.J 21 yru,; of aE;• :io ®Mu!M :;,!,;oho[ 'OH,,.,· V2Ud eV8l'')' tlonoay 11 "·"' io do«. "Off.,,. ..-olt,ci c,Vcr·r \</,..hle6<by 11 a:IJA. ro ..:l~s.o. 
'".r 1 
.J....:__ 


Wednesday, October 31, 2001 page 19
The Observer . TODAY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED RYAN
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
CUNNINGHAM 

HALLOWEEN DESTINATIONS TO AVOID 
NOT YET. 8UT 
HERE'S YOUR
ONLY HAVE THIS Be1TER 
ENTITLEMENT
ATS HERE! NOT BE A 
TICKETI
HERE'S YOUR STUDENT­RY OWN 
FOXTROT BILL AMEND 
EEK! THERE ACTUALLY, SUT THESE 8000! ARE (:,HOST 
YOU DON'T. PRUNES WERE 6000! T MY Do WE'RE COM-oRC:,ANICALLY 8000! MENTING GROWN. 
ON YOUR 
HANOoVTS. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------~-------­

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Ship that's 55 Famous comedy remembered team ala
1 Moolah "Jeopardy!"
27_-blond

5 Unwarm 
62 Theater award
30 1960'5

welcome catchword 63 Soft glows 
9 Lonely heights 
33 Electrician's unit 64 Met song13 Zone 
34 Take-home 65 Hood's 14 9th-century beneficiaries,
37 * 

founder of the with "the"
38 Sales agents Russian 40 Leaf opening 66 Beginmonarchy 41 Word with wheat 67 Sideways look 

15 Help in ways 
or missile 68 Hankeringsone shouldn't 42 "Gunfight at the 69 Command's site16 Musical with the O.K. Corral" rote 

song "The Night 70 Forest growth 
43 Hardly tiptoes They Invented 45 Antique

Champagne" 
DOWN
46 Warrior's

17 Stradivarius's 1 Dotty
weaponteacher 2 Land of 

48_outa win 

18 Forearm bone Killamey
49 Rigid

19 "Jeopardy!" 3 Runners
51 They're found format 

all along the 4 Made in 22 Profess line: Abbr. 5 U2 tour and film 53 500 sheets ala "Jeopardy!" 
230 
6 Country under longtime U.N.

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
sanctions 

Puzzle by Steven Dorfnwn
7 In _(as 

placed) 28 Scare 52 Not just trim 57 String instrument
8 Downhill racer 29 Kitchen product 54 N.C.A.A. 
58 Spoken
9 Degree of strain . a la "Jeopardy!" tournament division 59 Modem ice10 A must-do 31 Phones cream flavor55 Reproduce
11 City near 32Wear 
80 Makes a bow
Sparks 56Woodwind
35 Computer key 
instrument 81 Sailors
~.,,..,....~ 12 Ollie's partner 36 Bark 

39 Paints like
.,.;..f..,....,,........+;..a 14 Not common 

20 Not odd 21 Just enough to wet one's lips  Pollock 44 Wild guess  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).  
~'!i!-+~,i-1  24 Conventions 25 _ o' livin'  47 1979 film "Norma  "  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
__.__,__.__. 26 Rich Little forte  50 Make amummy  years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
..... D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Nrune --------------------­Address ----------------------­
City _______ State _____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON Im.press your boss with your cre­THIS DAY: Kevin Kline, Bill ative ideas, practical insight andWyman, Kweisi Mfume, Mary hard work. Your position won'tBono, Doug Kellogg, F. Murray 
change overnight, but you're
Abraham 
moving up. 000

Happy Birthday: You are 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Ask

loyal, trustworthy and exception­
for money that is still owed to

ally hardworking. 1his is a year of 
you. Make changes regarding

transition and change. Accept it your position. Don't let others
and be willing to move with the 
take credit for your work. Standtimes. Second-guessing will lead up for your rights. You need to beto regrets. If it feels right, gc_, for it. 

aggressive to move forward.

The more precise you are, the bet­ter you'll do. Your numbers: 16, 000 ­
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
19, 30, 34, 41, 46 
You won't be seeing things clear­

ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
ly, Don't unnecessarily annoySocial events will lead to 

someone you care about. It's bestromance, love and personal sta­

to keep busy with relaxing activi­

bility. Do some shopping for 
ties and forget your troubles. 00

youngsters in the family. They 
SAGrITARIUS (NmL 22-Dec. 21):

will appreciate your thoughtful­You will have a problem with in­ness and return the favor. 0000 laws or friends if you let them
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
push you into talking about aDon't wear your heart on your controversial subject. Don't let

sleeve. You stand a better chance 
your relationship be affected by

of getting your way if you play outsiders. Back off if necessary.
hard to get. Don't be upset if your partner overreacts. At least he or 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
she cares. 00 Money madness strikes. You will

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A 
fall victim to a "get rich quick"change should be welcome. Let 

scheme if you put cash into a

go of the past. Move in new cir­
risky venture. Don't trust thatcles, develop relationships and fast.tongued new acquaintance.

pick up additional skills. 00000 Save instead of spending. 000
CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. ~Feb. 18):
Your budget has been pushed to You will be creative and romantic.
the limit. Do some work at home 
Plan that classy evening for two.

without hiring extra labor. Look Your partner will appreciate yourinto all the ways to cut back. The thoughtfulness and savoir-faire.
more you save now, the better 
000

you will feel next year. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): l
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your 
i
Be careful not to offend someone. 

I
charm will mesmerize the love 
1
Use your good ideas to formulate

interest y~:m've been eyeing. You i
a plan of action and complete

can solidity the relationship if you 
.
eve1ything on time. You'll

plan an award-winning evening 
I
impress others if you are well­

together. If you are already in a l
organized. 000 j
refationship, your generosity will 1be rewarded. 000 1 
Birthday Baby: You arepassionate about your beliefs.and will stand by anyone worthy of your help. You are an "all or nothing" person and will never back down. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 
© 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 


Campus Sports 
. 
ND Women's Tennis, p. 13 

. 
Hockey, p. 15 


. Men's Golf, p. 17 
FOOTBALL 
Irish sink to spoiler role 
Some would say Notre Dame's season hit rock bottom in College Station when the Aggies embar­rassed the Irish. Some would say it hit rock bottom when Willie Green and 21 other guys ended Notre Dame's October winning streak Saturday. 
But the ·sea­son, and Bob Davie's tenure at Notre Dame, really hit rock bottom around 
1:30 p.m. Tuesday after­noon. 
"And I think, you know. for us, here at Notre Dame ... you have an opportunity to jump up and maybe in some ways be a spoiler," Davie said at his Tuesday press confer-enee. 
And at that very moment, Notre Dame hit rock bottom. Davie's "most talented team" in his five years at Notre Dame was now playing the role of the spoiler. 
Ugh.

: l 


) 
/'
i
,­
):I 
1 memory. 
But it still makes you sick to 

' 
i think of Notre Dame as a spoiler team.
f:
l ( Ugh. 
Illinois is a spoiler when it beats Michigan late in the season to spoil Michigan's Rose Bowl hopes. Arkansas often plays the spoiler role in the SEC. Boston College spoiled Notre Dame's undefeated season in 1993. 


Notre Dame should be the team getting spoiled, not the spoiler. But as Davie likes to say: lt is what it is. 
It is highly unlikely that this team will still go to a bowl. Even if the Irish win out their last four games and finish the season 7-4, it's doubtful the Irish would accept a bowl bid. Davie is most likely fin­ished after the Purdue game on 
see FOOTBALUpage 18 
Notre Dame as spoiler. 
It's not that Davie is wrong in assessing Notre Dame's role for the remainder of 2001. With three top 15 BCS teams slated in the next four games, the Irish can 

}' limit the bowl opportunities of 
J 
Tennessee, Stanford and Purdue 

/ by beating those teams. With four straight wins the Irish can throw a monkey wrench into the BCS bowls and send Davie on his way to his next job with a pleasant 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
Wednesday, October 31, 200 I 
Campus Sports 
. 
ND w. Volleyball, p. 15 

. 
ND Swimming, p. 16 

. 
ND w. Basketball, p. 18 



MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish spook Jaguars, 4-0 

By BRYAN KRONK 
Spores Writer 
During the first half of Notre Dame's game against IUPUI Tuesday night, it seemed as if a lone early goal would stand up. But, just in case, they added three more. 
Erich Braun con­tinued his impressive streak of scoring in every game in which the Irish have scored this season, with a goal just 14 seconds into the game, and the Irish went on to 


blow past the Clark Jaguars by a score of 4-0. 
"I was very pleased with the end result. It's great when you're scoring goals and not allowing goals; that's a sign of a good team," head coach Bobby Clark said. 
Four different players scored for the Irish, who improve to 10-5 on the sea­son. 
The Irish struck very early in this game, as defender Griffin Howard, just seconds off of the opening kickoff, struck a long pass down the left side of the field to Devon Prescod. His pass found Braun, who was wide open in front of the net. Braun easily slipped a shot past Jaguar goalie Armando Femia to put the Irish on the board before the local television net­work in attendance could begin broad­casting. 
With the goal. his 12th of the season, Braun has now tallied a goal in each of the 11 games in which the Irish have scored this season. 

Once again, the Irish defensive line of Howard, Andreas Forstner, Kevin Richards and Jack Stewart stopped the opposing offense cold, and on the wet and chilly night, the Jaguars could only muster three shots on goal for the_ first half. 
"Andreas and Griffin just held down the middle [of the defense] very well," Clark said. 
The slippery field conditions played a role in the game as well, as a free kick by Chad Riley seemed to he destined for the goal off of the foot of either Howard or Braun, but they slipped and collided and the opportunity was wasted. 
With the second half underway, the Irish defense patiently waited to take advantage of Jaguar mistakes, and with 33 minutes left in the second half, the breaks began to go to the Irish. Midfielder Kevin Goldthwaite took advantage of-a bad pass by an IUPUI defender, and booted a shot that found its way through many Jaguar defenders and past Femia to put the Irish in the lead 2-0. 
Seven minutes later, Goldthwaite took an Irish corner kick and found Howard wide open in the penalty area. Howard's shot went unchallenged by the Jaguars defense and the ball found its way into the net yei again to put the Irish ahead by three. 
Then, with time winding down, Stewart drove up the left side of the field and booted a crossing pass to Prescod and Rafael Garcia. Both were waiting in front of the net for the pass, and credit 
"Prescod has just done a tremendous job," Clark said. 
With the game comfortably in hand, Clark used the opportunity and played many of his substitute players to give his main team a rest. 
"It was nice at the end of the game to get nine of the other boys on the pro­gram onto the field," Clark said. 
Once again, freshman goalie Chris Sawyer held an Irish opponent scoreless, but this time around he got some help. Clark replaced Sawyer with Greg Tait with just under 10 minutes to play in the game. Tait, who only faced one threat­ening shot in his stint, a shot which clanged loudly off the left post, helped preserve the shutout, the Irish's sixth in its last seven games. 
Sawyer has now allowed only five goals in 931:07 of action this season. In the 10 games in which Sawyer has started, the Irish have won eight. 
"He has made some very big saves at vital times for us, and that's a sign of a good goalkeeper," Clark said. "And as a freshman, that's quite a good job." 
Clark is also looking forward to the possibilities in the Big East which will come into focus after Notre Dame's regu­lar season finale against Syracuse on Saturday night. 
"It'll be a terrific game. If we win [Saturday's game]. we've got a good chance at getting a home game in the Big East {tournament]. It would be terrific to get a good game here. We're in a situa­tion where a home Big East game would be tremendous," he said. 

for the goal was given to Prescod, and 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 

the Irish led 4-0. 

. Men's Basketball vs. lnt'I Select, Thursd~y, 7:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. Football vs. Tennessee, Saturday, 1:30 p.m.
SPORTS 

online classiricds 
. Men's Soccer vs. Syracuse, Saturday, 7:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Women's Soccer vs. St. John's, Sunday, 1 p.m. h t t p : / / \V \\' \\' • n d . e d u / 





